“We were eyeball-to-eyeball and 
the other fellow just blinked”
– Dean Rusk
US Secretary of State
www.jollyrogergames.com
www.ultrapro.com

T h e C u b a n M i s s i l e C r i s i s , 1 9 6 2
A game by
Daniel Skjold Pedersen
& Asger Sams Granerud

COMPONENTS
1 Game board
39 Strategy cards (13 UN, 13 US & 13 USSR)
1 Personal letter card
13 Agenda cards
34 Influence cubes (17 red & 17 blue)
6 DEFCON markers (3 red & 3 blue discs)
6 Flag counters (3 US & 3 USSR)
1 Prestige marker (yellow disc)
1 Round marker (black disc)
13 Days 
THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
G
I

GAME SET UP
Place the Game board on the 
table and decide which player 
controls US (blue) and USSR 
(red).
Each player takes all 17 
Influence cubes in their colour 
and their 3 Flag counters.
Place 1 blue Influence cube in 
both Italy and Turkey, and 1 red 
Influence cube in both Berlin and 
Cuba (military) as indicated on 
the Game board.
Place the Round marker on the 
first space of the Round track.
Place the Prestige marker in the 
middle of the Prestige track.
Place the 3 blue and the 3 
red DEFCON markers on the 
indicated starting spaces of the 
DEFCON tracks.
Take the 13 Agenda cards, 
shuffle them and place the deck 
facedown near the Game board.
Take the 39 Strategy cards, 
shuffle them and place the deck 
facedown near the Game board.
The US player starts the game 
with the Personal letter. Place it 
face-up on the table in front of 
him.
H
G
H
I
2 Players • Ages 10+ • 45 min.

OBJECTIVE
As President Kennedy or Premier Khrushchev you control 
one of the superpowers during the tense days of the Cuban 
Missile Crisis. You win 13 Days by emerging from the crisis 
with the most Prestige. 
During the game you earn Prestige by dominating the nine 
different battlegrounds around the globe or by dominating 
the political, military or world opinion arenas. Each round 
you select a hidden Agenda that will award Prestige to the 
dominating player, so be careful to not reveal your true 
Agenda too soon while trying to outwit your opponent.
Players take turns playing Strategy cards to place or remove 
Influence cubes, striving to gain majorities across the Game 
board. The tricky part: if you push too far, you risk losing 
the game by triggering global nuclear war! What will history 
remember you as: a hero, a villain or a coward?
GAME STRUCTURE
13 Days is played over 3 rounds. During each round both 
players will go through 8 steps as outlined below:
1.	
ESCALATE DEFCON TRACKS	
2.	
DRAW AGENDAS
3.	
STRATEGY CARDS & INITIATIVE
4.	
SAVE CARD FOR AFTERMATH
5.	
WORLD OPINION BONUS
6.	
RESOLVE AGENDAS
7.	
CHECK FOR NUCLEAR WAR
8.	
ADVANCE ROUND MARKER

1. ESCALATE DEFCON TRACKS
Escalate all DEFCON markers one step 
(even in the first round).
2. DRAW AGENDAS
First shuffle the Agenda deck, then deal 3 cards 
to each player. Each player then takes their Flag counters 
and places them on the 3 battlegrounds and/or DEFCON 
tracks they drew (when you have the Personal Letter Agenda, 
place the Flag counter on the United Nations battleground).
Both players secretly select one Agenda card and tuck 
it facedown beneath the Game board where indicated. 
These Agendas are revealed at the end of the round. The 
two other Agenda cards are returned to the deck without 
revealing them.
Agenda Card Overview:
A	Name (the specific battleground or DEFCON 
track on the Game board)
B	Colour and subheading (political, military 
or world opinion) 	
C	DEFCON (if the Agenda affects DEFCON)
D	Bonus Prestige
Escalate all DEFCON markers in the
military DEFCON 2 area by one step.
to difference in Influence Cubes +1.
Military
Defcon Track
+1
to difference in Influence Cubes.
turkey
Political Battleground
+0
AgendA CARd

3. STRATEGY CARDS & INITIATIVE
Each player draws 5 Strategy cards (keep the cards hidden from 
your opponent). You may look at them. Then the player trailing 
on Prestige determines which player has the initiative this round. 
If the players are tied, the USSR determines the initiative (this is 
always the case in the first round). The player with the initiative 
must play the first Strategy card. 
There are two ways in which a Strategy card can be played: 
either for Command or for the Event. Each play of a Strategy card 
represents half a day of the missile crisis.
Command
You can play all Strategy cards for Command. 
If played for Command you may either place or 
remove (not both) the number of Influence cubes 
shown on the card to or from a single battleground 
(only your own cubes). You are allowed to use a 
card for less than the number of Influence cubes 
shown. A battleground may never hold more than 5 
Influence cubes from one player.
There is a hard limit of 17 Influence cubes per 
player and you are only allowed to place cubes 
that are not already on the Game board. If none 
are available, you cannot place any until you have 
removed some.
public proteStS
Remove any number of US 
Influence cubes from any one 
battleground.
In several NATO countries people demonstrated 
for a non-military solution to the crisis.
StrateGic balance
Place up to 3 Influence cubes 
on the Atlantic battleground.
Nuclear missiles in Cuba would restore 
the strategic balance.
cl
Place
in tota
Consult
prom
UN
Summit meetinG
Discard any number of 
Strategy cards from your hand. 
Draw one Strategy card per 
card so discarded.
Suggesting a summit meeting was a sign 
of reconciliation or a means to buy time.
+/_

Placing and removing Influence cubes from a battleground 
also affects the DEFCON tracks. All military battlegrounds 
are connected to the military DEFCON track. Likewise 
for political and world opinion battlegrounds. Placing 
Influence cubes escalates the connected DEFCON track, 
while removing Influence cubes deflates it. The effect on the 
DEFCON track is one step for each Influence cube placed or 
removed after the first. (Thus, placing 1 Influence cube does 
not affect the DEFCON track whereas placing 3 Influence 
cubes escalates it two steps (see example)). 
No DEFCON marker may be moved beyond the limits of the 
DEFCON track. Simply leave the marker in the top or bottom step 
if otherwise required to do so.
Cards associated with your opponent’s superpower can only 
be played for Command, not the Event. When you play your 
opponent’s card for Command, first hand over the card to your 
opponent. He may then choose to trigger the Event before you 
spend any Influence on your Command action. If the opponent 
decides to trigger the Event, it is resolved exactly as if he had 
played the card himself (but on your turn).
The player holding the Personal Letter card may, on his turn, play 
it alongside a Strategy card played for Command to 
increase its Influence by 1. Then pass the 
Personal Letter to your opponent.
cloSe allieS
Place up to 2 Influence cubes 
in total on one or more political 
battlegrounds.
Consulting political allies during the crisis 
promoted the goals of a superpower.
Strategy Card Overview
A. Name
B. Alignment
C. Command cubes
D. DEFCON 
 (if the Event affects DEFCON)
E. Event text
F. Historical text
inG
of 
r hand. 
d per 
.
s a sign 
uy time.

Event
You may choose to play any Strategy card associated with your 
own superpower or the UN as an Event rather than Command. 
Typically, Events provide a way to either break or tweak the 
core rules of a Command action, or allow a more powerful but 
restricted action. When played as an Event, follow the Event 
text on the Strategy card. If at odds with the general rules 
for spending Influence cubes, the Event takes precedence 
(except: no more than 5 Influence cubes per player on a 
battleground). If the card has a DEFCON icon, the Event may 
affect the DEFCON tracks according to the normal rules for 
placing/removing Influence cubes. If the card has no DEFCON 
icon on it, the Event does not affect the DEFCON tracks.
4. SAVE CARD FOR AFTERMATH
After 4 turns each, both players will have one Strategy 
card left in their hand. This card is tucked facedown 
beneath the Game board where indicated to form a special 
Aftermath stack that is tallied up at the end of the game.
5. WORLD OPINION BONUS
The player with the most Influence cubes on each of the three 
world opinion battlegrounds may trigger the corresponding 
end of round effect (in case of a tie no one triggers the effect). 
Resolve the effects one at a time in the following order:
•	 Television battleground: The dominating player may 
escalate or deflate one of their DEFCON tracks one step.
•	 United Nations battleground: The dominating player 
receives the Personal letter card from their opponent. If 
the player already holds the Personal letter card there is 
no effect.	
STRATEGY CARD

•	 Alliances battleground: The dominating player 
draws the topmost card from the Strategy deck 
and decides to add it facedown to the aftermath 
stack or place it face-up on the discard pile.
6. RESOLVE AGENDAS
Turn over and reveal the two Agendas selected at the 
beginning of the round. Remember to retrieve your 
Flag counters from the Game board at the same time. 
If an Agenda has a DEFCON icon, all DEFCON 
markers in the DEFCON 2 area of that specific track 
escalate one step.
Resolve both Agendas simultaneously, awarding 
Prestige to the dominating player in accordance 
with the card text. The basic amount of Prestige 
gained is equal to the difference between the 
players’ Influence cubes or DEFCON steps 
(in case of a tie, no Prestige is awarded for that 
Agenda). Often a bonus Prestige is added. You 
find the bonus inside the yellow circle on Agendas 
and on battlegrounds across the Game board. 
DEFCON tracks always award a +1 Prestige bonus. 
Battlegrounds award 0-2 extra Prestige. Be aware 
that Cuba (military), Cuba (political) and Atlantic 
are connected battlegrounds. They award +1 Prestige 
for each connected 
battleground also 
dominated. A player can 
never lead by more than 
5 Prestige.
Place the resolved 
Agendas face-up in the 
discard pile after use.

7. CHECK FOR NUCLEAR WAR
If you push yourself or your opponent to the 
brink, you risk not being able to pull back 
before it is too late. A player can trigger global 
nuclear war in step 7, immediately losing the 
game. Global nuclear war triggers if any of 
the following conditions are met (but these 
conditions may be violated during steps 1-6): 
•	 Any DEFCON marker in the DEFCON 1 
area
•	 All 3 of your DEFCON markers in the 
DEFCON 2 area
If both players trigger global nuclear war in 
the same round, they both lose.
8. ADVANCE ROUND MARKER
Advance the Round marker one step on the 
Round track. Unless the Round marker has 
advanced to the aftermath spot, play a new 
round. If the aftermath has been reached, 
resolve it and determine the winner.
END OF GAME
Reveal the stack of Strategy cards saved for the aftermath 
throughout the game (there should be between 6 and 9 cards in 
the stack). Then count all the Influence cubes of US and USSR 
associated Events in the stack. Ignore UN Events. Which player 
placed which cards does not matter. The player with the highest 
Influence cube total gains 2 Prestige. In case of a tie no Prestige 
is awarded.
Assuming that no one triggered global 
nuclear war, the winner of 13 Days is 
the player with the most Prestige. In 
case of a tie the player holding the 
Personal letter wins the game.

David Janik-Jones (US) vs Robert Hahn (Soviet)
13 Days: The Cuban Missile Crisis opens with the United States and 
Soviet players tied for Prestige, at 0. This means that neither side is 
winning. The three DEFCON tracks are set up as indicated on the 
board at the start of the game, and the US and Soviet players place a 
single Influence cube in four of the battlegrounds; Italy and Turkey 
for the US, and Cuba and Berlin for the Soviet. The US takes the 
Personal Letter card. The crisis that brought the world to the brink 
of nuclear war, has begun again.
Round 1
In the first phase of round one, DEFCON markers are increased 
and each player receives three Agenda cards. The US player has 
had a stroke of luck! He receives Turkey and Italy, plus World 
Opinion DEFCON. The Soviet player receives the Atlantic, 
Personal Letter, and Political DEFCON track. Each player marks 
these three Agendas on the board. 
The US player decides that it is easiest to bolster his existing 
influence in Italy, and selects that Agenda. The Soviet player 
notes he is initially behind on the Political DEFCON track, so 
the Personal Letter is an easier option, and he hopes to gain the 
advantage of that card, which can be useful later. The unselected 
four Agenda cards are shuffled back into the Agenda card deck.
Each player draws five Strategy cards. The US player receives: 
Public Protests (US-centric), Containment (UN), and U-2 Downed, 
Defensive Missiles and Suez-Hungary (three Soviet-centric). 
Three of the five cards allow the Soviet player to use their events, 
13 Days: 
THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS 
PLAY-THROUGH

so not a good starting hand for the US. The Soviet receives: Fidel 
Castro (Soviet-centric), Scramble and Intelligence Reports (UN 
cards), and Lessons of Munich and Quarantine (US cards), not an 
especially good hand for the Soviet either. Tied Prestige Points 
mean the Soviet player decides whether to play first or second 
this round. He wants to see how the US reacts to the crisis, and 
chooses to play second.
Designer’s note: This is a good example of both players 
feeling the agony of drawing opponent events right 
from the start of the game. You will play cards that 
benefit your opponent, so your job is to play them 
when they hurt you the least, and when you draw a 
bad hand, remember: your opponent is probably in the 
same situation.
The US player begins the game by playing Public Protests for 
3 Command, and places three cubes in the Atlantic military 
battleground as a hedge against future Soviet aggression in 
the region and to try to block his opponent if that is the Soviet 
Agenda. The Command action always adjusts the DEFCON 
track, if more than one Influence cube is placed or removed. 
Here the military US DEFCON is escalated two steps (one less 
than the number of Influence cubes placed). The Soviet plays 
the Scramble card’s event and places 1 Influence cube in the 
Atlantic military battleground (to counter the US player), the 
United Nations, and lastly Turkey; to counter the one US cube 
already there. Since there is no DEFCON icon on the card, 
playing the event does not escalate the DEFCON tracks. 
For his second card, the US plays Defensive Missiles. Since this is 
a Soviet card, the Soviet player may use the event first. He chooses 
to, placing one Soviet Influence cube in both the Television and 
UN battlegrounds (despite both being world opinion battlegrounds 
the DEFCON is not affected since only one Influence cubes was 
placed on each). The US now gets to act and places a single cube 
into the UN battleground to counter the Soviet’s growing presence. 

For his second card, the Soviet plays Lessons of Munich. To 
misdirect the opponent about his Italy Agenda, as well as counter 
the Soviet Influence cube already present, the US player uses 
the event to place a single Influence cube into Berlin. The 
Soviet player may be uncertain of the US Agenda at this point, 
but moves forward with his own plan anyway. For his play, he 
confidently commands three Influence cubes, placing them 
in the Atlantic military battleground and escalating the USSR 
military DEFCON two steps. The US player is now torn ... is the 
Soviet Agenda the Atlantic?
For his third card the US plays U-2 Downed. The Soviet uses 
the event to place 2 more Influence in Turkey, hoping to block 
Turkey if that’s the US Agenda for the round. The US has no 
cubes in either Cuba battleground so the Soviet use of the event 
is complete. The US commands two Influence in the Atlantic 
(to his maximum of five), convinced this is the Soviet’s Agenda. 
The Soviet player uses the Quarantine card to play one 
Influence cube. The event is not usable by the US, since he 
already has the maximum number of cubes permitted in the 
Atlantic. The Soviet uses the command action, adding one 
more cube into the United Nations battleground.
u-2 doWned
Place up to 2 Influence cubes on the 
Turkey battleground. Remove half 
the US Influence cubes from one 
Cuba battleground (rounded up).
The USSR responded to continued reconnaissance 
overflights by shooting down a U-2 aircraft over Cuba.

The US now plays his last card for the round: Containment. 
He has assumed Italy safe from Soviet influence, and 
commands two cubes placed into the Alliances world opinion 
battleground (escalating the world opinion DEFCON track 
one step). The US player is gambling that by adding only two 
Soviet cubes to the Aftermath pile (on his remaining Suez-
Hungary card) he’ll be safe. The Soviet, however, surprises the 
US and plays Intelligence Reports for the event, forcing the 
US player to hand the Suez-Hungary card over (since it’s his 
only card in hand) and draw a new one. The Soviet discards 
the card because he is incorrectly assuming that Italy is not 
the US Agenda, and he prefer to save the Influence cubes for 
later rounds. Unfortunately for the US player, the replacement 
card drawn is Moscow is our Brain, a three-cube Soviet card 
that will now wind up in the aftermath pile. 
Designer’s notel: The Soviet player could have 
used the Suez-Hungary card to take over the Italy 
battleground for a late 2 Prestige swing! But US 
player has done a nice job of misdirection, which 
is even more important here as the Soviet player is 
going last and could have responded to a massive 
influx of US cubes in Italy. In 13 Days you are 
playing your opponent as much as you are playing 
the game. 
Both players place their one remaining Strategy card into the 
Aftermath pile and work through the last steps in a round. World 
Opinion bonuses are resolved. The Soviet player wins the UN 
world opinion battleground and receives the Personal Letter. 
The Soviets also win the Television battleground, choosing 
to deflate their military DEFCON by one. The US wins the 
Alliances and draws one Strategy card. It is Bay of Pigs, a Soviet 
card, so the US discards it instead of adding it to the Aftermath 
pile. Agendas are now resolved. The US reveals Italy, scoring 1 
Prestige for his unopposed cube plus one extra as marked on the 
battleground and his Agenda card. The Soviets reveals Personal 

Letter and also receives 2 Prestige for having the Personal Letter 
card in possession, meaning Prestige is unchanged after this 
round, tied at 0. Neither US nor the Soviet player has triggered 
a global nuclear war so the round marker is advanced and round 
two begins.
The player holding the Personal 
Letter card receives 2 Prestige.
PerSonal 
letter
Card
to difference in Influence Cubes +1.
italy
Political Battleground
+1
+2 , USSR
= No change in Prestige

Round 2
DEFCON tracks are increased and Agenda cards are drawn. 
The US receives Political DEFCON, Cuba Political, and 
Berlin. The Soviet draws Turkey, Atlantic and Military 
DEFCON. The US selects Cuba while hoping to maintain 
his strong influence in the Atlantic. The Soviet chooses 
the Atlantic, hoping to drive the US out. The US player is 
running low on Influence cubes and will need to pull some 
out of battlegrounds to act in new areas. The Soviet also hopes 
to gain bonus Prestige for control of at least one of the two 
Cuba battlegrounds. Since there is a tie in Prestige, the Soviet 
again chooses to go second. Five Strategy cards are drawn for 
each player.
The US draws MRBMs & IRBMS, Strategic Balance, Berlin 
Blockade, Operation Mongoose, and Wave and Smile, another 
hand dominated by Soviet cards. The Soviet draws Air Strike, 
Noninvasion Pledge, Missile Trade, To The Brink and Fifty, 
Fifty. Not a strong hand, but there are only two US-centric cards.
The US wants to get rid of his Soviet cards and plays Berlin 
Blockade. The Soviet chooses to gain 2 Prestige, followed 
by the US escalating the Soviet’s World Opinion DEFCON 
by two, trying to push the Soviets into starting a war. The US 
player places 2 cubes (his second and third) into Turkey, to 
try to balance the three Soviet cubes in that battleground 
(wrongly assuming the Soviet Agenda lies there). The Soviet 
plays Fifty, Fifty for the event, and de-escalates his World 
Opinion and Military DEFCON tracks by one each. 
Designer’s note: Beginning round 2 the US player is in 
a weaker position on the DEFCON tracks with more 
escalated tracks. I interpret the early play of Berlin 
Blockade as an attempt to increase the pressure 
on the Soviet player to take away some flexibility. 
Accepting the 2 Prestige at the expense of risking 

nuclear war later on is a dilemma. It didn’t pay off 
because the next two events allow the Soviet player to 
deflate DEFCON tracks and take away that increased 
pressure.
The US plays MRBMs & IRBMs as his second card. The Soviet 
uses the event to deflate his Military DEFCON track by one and 
places 1 cube into the Atlantic military battleground. The US 
player places one cube in Berlin in an attempt to confuse the 
Soviet. Since only one cube was commanded, the US Military 
DEFCON track remains unaffected. The Soviet plays To The 
Brink for the event, to hamstring the US for the remainder of the 
round (US cards are now worth -1 Influence when commanding). 
The US plays his third card, Wave and Smile, for the event. 
He relocates two cubes from the Alliance battleground into the 
Cuba political battleground. 
Correctly assuming the US Agenda is that battleground, the 
Soviet plays Noninvasion Pledge. The US uses the event to 
remove two Soviet cubes from Turkey because the Soviet 
Agenda might be Turkey, and also lowers his political DEFCON 
track by two. The Soviet then places two Influence cubes 
Wave and Smile
Remove up to 2 US Influence 
cubes in total from one or more 
battlegrounds. Place them on 
other battlegrounds. 
Sticking to Kennedy’s existing presidential schedule 
allowed the US administration to prepare ahead.

into the Cuba political battleground to equal the US cubes 
already there (escalating his political DEFCON marker one 
step). For the last card of the round, the US plays Strategic 
Balance. The Soviet cannot use the event to place more cubes 
in the Atlantic since the max of five has been reached, so 
the US simply places one more cube into Cuba’s political 
battleground. The Soviet plays Air Strike. The US player 
uses the event to remove one cube from Cuba’s political 
battleground, but the Soviet command 2 cubes back into that 
battleground (escalating their political DEFCON track one 
step), to even the US player’s cubes. 
Operation Mongoose and Missile Trade are added secretly 
to the Aftermath pile. The Soviet player wins the UN world 
opinion battleground to retain the Personal Letter. The Soviets 
win Television, and deflate their world opinion DEFCON 
by one. No one wins Alliances. The US reveals his Cuba 
Political Agenda, but both players have three cubes in that 
battleground, so no one wins any Prestige. The Soviets reveal 
Atlantic, but here is a tie as well with both players having five 
cubes in that battleground, so no Prestige is won. The Prestige 
air Strike
EITHER remove half the USSR Influence 
cubes from one Cuba battleground 
(rounded up) OR place up to 2 Influence 
cubes on the Alliances battleground.
A surgical air strike could remove all 
nuclear missiles from Cuba.

score is now 2 for the Soviets (after the events of the Berlin 
Blockade card). Both players check again to see if they have 
triggered a nuclear war, which isn’t the case and the game 
moves along. The Round marker is advanced and round three 
begins.
Designer’s note: The three battlegrounds around 
Cuba are quite important. Here both players go 
toe-to-toe for domination, thus evening each other 
out. That doesn’t mean that the round is wasted. 
Players are jockeying for board position, the 
DEFCON tracks continue to escalate, players run 
low on Influence cubes etc. This will greatly affect 
the maneuverability in the last round where the game 
is decided.
Round 3
DEFCON tracks are escalated (The US military DEFCON 
track now reaches the critical DEFCON 1 area, while all 
three Soviet DEFCON tracks are in the DEFCON 2 area – 
so both players must be careful to avoid triggering nuclear 
war) and Agenda cards are drawn. The US receives Political 
DEFCON, Military DEFCON, and Cuba Military. The 
Soviet draws Berlin, Political DEFCON and World Opinion 
DEFCON. The US selects Military DEFCON because he 
is ahead of the Soviets on that track. The Soviet chooses 
Berlin, even though the US has a 1 cube advantage in that 
battleground to start the round (the Soviet player has more 
freedom to place Influence on a military battleground without 
escalating into the DEFCON 1 area). The US is behind in 
Prestige so chooses to play second. Five Strategy cards are 
drawn for each player.
Designer’s note: The US is under a lot of pressure 
from the military DEFCON track. The Soviet could 

have exploited that by picking the Political DEFCON 
Agenda safely assuming that the US would stay 
deflated on that part of the track.
The US draws National Liberation, Eyeball to Eyeball, 
Summit Meeting, Close Allies and Nuclear Submarines, a 
mixed hand. The Soviet draws SOPs, U Thant, A Face-Saver, 
Invasion of Cuba and Math Precision, a poor hand for the 
Aftermath segment with two US cards and three UN cards.
The first Soviet card is SOPs used for the event, so for the 
remainder of the turn Soviet command actions are +1. The 
Soviet player is running low on Influence cubes, and that 
card will allow for better actions when removing cubes. The 
US plays Summit Meeting and removes two Influence cubes 
from the Atlantic, thus deflating the military DEFCON track 
one step (back down into the DEFCON 2 area). The second 
Soviet card is Invasion of Cuba. The US decides not use the 
event (he does not want to escalate back into DEFCON 1 on 
his military DEFCON track), so the Soviet places one cube 
into the Alliances battleground. The US plays Eyeball to 
Eyeball and, since he is the most escalated on the military 
DEFCON, uses the event to place a single Influence cube on 
Cuba military without escalating the DEFCON further.
Summit meetinG
Discard any number of 
Strategy cards from your hand. 
Draw one Strategy card per 
card so discarded.
Suggesting a summit meeting was a sign 
of reconciliation or a means to buy time.

The third Soviet card is Math Precision. The US player uses the 
event to deflate his Political DEFCON track by one and places 
one cube on the Cuba military battleground. The Soviet then 
commands four cubes out of the Atlantic (three from the card 
and one extra granted from the previously played SOPs card 
(deflating the USSR military DEFCON track three steps). The 
US plays Close Allies and again removes two cubes out of the 
Atlantic, deflating his military DEFCON another step.
Designer’s note: Since the US player keeps adding 
Influence to the Cuba military battleground, the Soviet 
player wrongly assumes that is his secret Agenda. From 
that perspective, and due to running low on cubes, 
drawing four cubes out of the Atlantic and deflating the 
military DEFCON track is not that bad a move, though 
here it proves costly.
The Soviet plays his final card, A Face-Saver, for the command 
action. He moves two Influence cubes into Berlin (again using the 
bonus from the SOPs card), and escalates his military DEFCON 
marker one step. US plays National Liberation. The Soviet player 
decide to abstain from using the event so as not to escalate the 
political DEFCON marker into the DEFCON 1 area). The US 
places one cube into Berlin to counter the Soviet move.
Nuclear Submarines and U Thant are added to the Aftermath 
pile. The Soviet player wins the UN world opinion battleground 
to retain the Personal Letter. The Soviets win Television, and 
deflate their political DEFCON track by one (to avoid losing if 
US player has the political as the marker was sitting just under 
the DEFCON 1 area and could be pushed the final step by that 
agenda card). The Soviet also win Alliances and draws the U-2 
Photographs card (one US cube), discarding it. The US reveals 
his military DEFCON Agenda. He is ahead on that track by 3 
points. He increases that DEFCON marker by one (to just under 
the DEFCON 1 area) and gains 4 Prestige for that, moving 
the Prestige marker to the 2 space on the US side. The Soviets 

reveal Berlin as his Agenda. Both players have three Influence 
cubes and no one receive Prestige. 
Both players are safe from starting nuclear war, so the 
Aftermath cards are now revealed and added up. The UN cards 
are discarded, and only the cubes on the US and Soviet cards 
are counted. The US only has two cubes on one card. The 
Soviets have a total of nine cubes on three cards and gain two 
Prestige for this, moving the marker back to the 0 space on 
the Prestige track. The game is a tie on Prestige so the Soviet 
player wins because he holds the Personal Letter card. The 
game is over and the Soviet Union walk away from the crisis the 
winners in the world’s eyes. Nuclear war has been averted.
It is a tie so the Soviets’ 
Personal Letter card gives 
them the win.
operation monGooSe
US gains 1 Prestige. 
Then USSR may escalate/deflate 
a US DEFCON track by 1 step.
Covert plans to destabilize the 
Castro regime could backfire.
miSSile trade
Remove up to 3 USSR 
Influence cubes in total from 
one or more battlegrounds.
Khrushchev pushed for a missile trade to defuse 
the crisis through several channels.
Fidel caStro
Place up to 3 Influence cubes 
in total on one or both Cuba 
battlegrounds.
While initially opposed to the idea of nuclear missiles 
in Cuba, Fidel supported Khrushchev.
moScoW 
is brain
our
Place up to 4 Influence cubes in 
total on battlegrounds where the 
USSR player currently has Influence 
cubes. Max 2 per battleground.
The USSR maintained a strong militarya and 
political control of Cuba throughout the crisis.

Created by:
Daniel Skjold Pedersen / 
Asger Sams Granerud
Special thanks to
Rasmus Schou Christensen, Kim Dorff, Kasper Foskjaer, 
Johannes Følsgaard, Hans Peter Hartsteen, Anders Hebert, 
Travis Hill, Lars Hofmann, David Janik-Jones, Bo Jørgensen, 
Lars Krebs, Thomas Løfgren, Jens Ladefoged Mortensen, 
Jeppe Norsker, Jakob Lind Olsen, Andreas Skjold Pedersen, 
Ravindra Prasad, Lars Præstegaard, Rhinoceros (BGG), 
Ian Scrivins, Johannes Sjolte, Morten Skovgaard, 
Ole Steiness, Morten Weilbach, Anders Wivel, 
Nordic Game Artisans, and the great BGG community.
Graphic Design
Jacob Walker
Thank you to our wonderful and generous
KICKSTARTER BACKERS!
www.jollyrogergames.com
www.ultrapro.com