Rule Book
Version 25

Ft. Détroit
Ft. Saint-Frédéric
Ft. de La Présentation
Ft. Frontenac
Ft. Toronto
Ft. Niagara
Ft. Duquesne
Ft. Necessity
Ft. Oswego
Albany
Boston
New York
Philadelphia
Alexandria
Williamsburg
Oneida 
Carry
Ft. William 
Henry
ROUND - T
TURN - SÉq
5 Muster Markers 
 
 
Starting with the British Colonials, place their 
two grey Muster Markers 
 on any Town 
Areas occupied by English side Units. 
Then place the two yellow French Canadiens 
Muster Markers 
 on any Town Areas 
occupied by French side Units.
All Muster Markers are placed with their ‘two 
cube side’ face up. Only 1 Muster Marker per 
area.
Ex: The French Canadiens decide to place their 
Muster Markers in Saint Jean and Montréal.
4 Fort Markers 
The French and the English sides each place 3 
Fort Markers 
 on any Fort Symbol areas on 
the map occupied by their units. Only 1 Fort 
Marker per area.
Ex: The French place Forts in Ft. Duquesne, 
Ft. Beauséjour, and Louisbourg.
1 Choose a Faction
Each player chooses a faction to play and 
takes the corresponding Units, Battle Dice, 
and Faction Cards of that faction’s color. The 
French side’s two factions are the the yellow 
French Canadiens and the purple French 
Regulars. The British side’s two factions 
are the white British Colonials and the red 
British Regulars. 
When playing with fewer than four people, one 
or more players will control multiple factions 
of one side. All factions must be played. 
The Native Americans are not controlled by 
any single player but can be allied with both 
sides. Place the 40 green Native Units and the 
2 green Native Battle Dice next to the map 
board (not pictured).
2 Unit Setup 
 
 
 
 
 
Some Areas on the map are marked with 
colored ‘Unit’ squares. Populate the map 
Areas with the corresponding colored Units. 
After setup, these symbols are no longer 
used in the game.
Ex: The French player places 1 , 1 , and 1 
 at Ft. Machault.
Home Areas
The map is separated with 
dotted lines into Land 
Areas that either have a 
Purple, Green, or Red 
background to show that 
they are French, Native, 
or British Home Areas. 
Fort, Town, Native, and 
Victory Symbol icons are 
present in some Areas.
Turn Spaces
Each space’s symbol 
designates which Tribe is 
activated, if the Green Turn 
Cube is placed on it (2.3).
Fort Symbol
Town Symbol
3 Control Markers 
 
Place a British 
 or French 
 Control 
Marker on each Green Native Home 
Area with a Victory Symbol 
 that is 
occupied by the corresponding side’s Units. 
Players never place their side’s Control Markers 
on their own Home Areas (4.2).
1 British Colonials
12 White Faction Cards
45 White Colonials Unit Cubes
3 White Colonials Battle Dice
3 Battle Dice
12 Yellow Faction Cards
45 Yellow Canadiens Unit Cubes
3 Yellow Canadiens Battle Dice
3 Battle Dice

Halifax
Annapolis Royal
Ft. Lawrence
Ft. Beauséjour
Gaspé
Québec
Montréal
n
Falmouth
Trois-Rivières
Saint Jean
Ft. Halifax
Louisbourg
our - Runde - Ronda
quence - Zug - Turno
L
 
U
N
I
T
S
Academy Games Copyright © 2016
UnitÉs en Fuite
Geflohene Einheiten
Unidades Huidas
Copyright © 2016 Academy Games www.AcademyGames.com
6 Cards
Each faction shuffles its 12 Faction 
Cards to form its Draw Deck and draws 
3 cards, which they may look at.
Each faction’s Draw Deck consists of 12 
unique cards: 8 Movement and 4 Event 
Cards. If a player holds only Event 
Cards, they must show these cards, 
reshuffle them into their Draw Deck, 
and draw three new cards.
Allied players may show each other 
their cards at any time in order to 
discuss and coordinate their actions.
9 Round Pawn
Place the Round Pawn on Space 1 of 
the Round Track.
8 Turn Cubes
Place the white, red, yellow, purple, and 
green Turn Cubes (the five dice with 
all blank faces) into the Draw Bag (not 
pictured).
Short Introductory Game
New players may choose to play the 
short introductory version of the game 
to learn the game’s mechanics. Set up 
the game as normal except that each 
faction’s Draw Deck only includes 
Faction Cards 7 through 10. The game 
ends at the end of Round 2.
Teaching Videos available on our 
webpage: AcademyGames.com
Harbor Area
Native Symbol
Victory Symbol 
making this a 
Victory Area
1 British Regulars
12 Red Faction Cards
35 Red British Regulars Unit Cubes
2 Red British Regulars Battle Dice
2 Battle Dice
7 Place Additional Units
 
The French Canadiens and the French 
Regulars each place 4 additional Units 
in any Areas already occupied by 
French faction Units. These Units may 
be placed in several Areas.
 
The British Colonials and the British 
Regulars then each place 4 additional 
Units in any Areas already occupied by 
British faction Units. These Units may 
be placed in several Areas.
All remaining Units are placed into their 
faction’s 
Stockpile. 
Green Native Units are placed in their 
own Stockpile (not pictured).
2 Battle Dice
12 Purple Faction Cards
35 Purple French Regulars Unit Cubes
2 Purple French Regulars Battle Dice

Game Play
Reinforcements Phase
1.0 Rounds and Turns
The game is played for 3 to 8 Rounds. During each Round, all 
four faction players will take a Turn in random order. 
At the beginning of each Round, all five Turn Cubes are placed 
into the Draw Bag. Next, a Turn Cube is blindly drawn from the 
bag and placed on the left-most space of the Turn Track. The color 
drawn denotes which faction’s Turn it is. This faction completes 
its Turn, after which the next Turn Cube is drawn from the bag 
and placed on the next left-most open space on the Turn Track.
Once all five Turn Cubes have been drawn and all the faction 
players have had their Turn, the Round ends. The Turn Cubes are 
placed back into the Draw Bag, the Round Pawn is advanced to the 
next Round Space on the Round Track, and a new Round begins. 
2.0 French and British Regulars Reinforcements
During the French Regulars or British Regulars 
player turn, that player pulls 4 Reinforcement 
Units from his Stockpile. These 4 Reinforcement 
Units may be placed in one or more Harbor 
Areas that do not contain enemy Units. 
2.1 Canadiens and Colonials Reinforcements
During the French Canadiens or British 
Colonials player turn, that player’s Muster 
Markers generate the number of yellow or 
white Reinforcement Units that are pictured on 
each Muster Marker. Pull these Reinforcement 
Units from their Stockpile and place them in 
the Areas with the Muster Markers. If a Muster 
Marker’s Area is occupied by enemy Units, no 
Reinforcement Units are mustered by that marker.
Ex: The British Colonials Muster Marker shown above allows 
the Colonials player to place 3 white Colonials Units in the 
Area that the Muster Marker occupies.
2.2 Limited Reinforcements Stockpiles
If the Active Faction does not have enough Reinforcement 
Units in its Stockpile to place the full number of 
Reinforcements, then only the remaining Units get placed.
Halifax
Harbor Area
Muster
Marker
2.3 Native Reinforcements
When the green Native Turn Cube is drawn 
and placed on the Turn Track, Native 
Reinforcements are placed on the map. 
Each Turn Space is marked with one of five 
Native Symbols. Each of these Native Symbols 
is also depicted on two Areas on the map. 
3 Native Units are placed on each of the two Areas with 
the Native Symbol that matches the Symbol the Native Turn 
Cube was placed on. Once the Native Reinforcements have been 
placed, a new Turn Cube is drawn.
2.4 Fled Units
During 
Active 
Faction’s 
Reinforcements Phase, any of the 
Active Faction’s Units located in 
the Fled Units Space re-enter play. 
These Fled Units may be placed 
anywhere the Active Faction may 
place Reinforcements.
If the Active Faction has nowhere 
to place its Fled Units, they stay in the Fled Units Space.
Native Fled Units only re-enter play if the Active Faction plays 
an Event Card that allows them to do so.
Native Symbol
L
 
U
N
I
T
S
UnitÉs en Fuite
Geflohene Einheiten
Unidades Huidas
Fled Units Space
1.1 Game End Check
At the end of Round 3, and at the end of each subsequent 
Round, the Game End Conditions must be checked (6.1). 
1.2 Turn Sequence
A drawn Turn Cube designates which faction takes its Turn 
next. The drawn faction is the Active Faction and that faction’s 
player performs the following phases in order: 
1) Reinforcements Phase (2.0) 
2) Movement Phase (3.0) 
3) Battle Phase (4.0)
4) Draw Cards Phase (5.0)
Game Overview
It is 1754 and both France and Britain have thriving colonies in North America. In response to New England colonists expanding 
into the Ohio River Valley, France has begun building a chain of forts to protect its claim to the land. Virginia’s Governor sends a 
young George Washington with a small militia force to defend the region. He is defeated and this incident leads to an open war 
between France and Britain. 
This regional confrontation will quickly ignite a world wide war that will engulf the Americas, Europe, India, and parts of Africa. 
The war in the Americas is known as the French and Indian War in the United States, the War of Conquest in Canada, and a fringe 
part of the Seven Years’ War fought around the world by the European powers.
In 1754 - Conquest, players each control a French or British Faction that fought for dominance over the Americas. The French players 
control the French Canadiens and the French Regulars. The British players control the British Colonials and the British Regulars. 
Both sides can ally themselves and fight with the Native American Nations.
Players for each side work together in order to coordinate their strategies. To win, each side attempts to control Victory Symbol 
Areas on the map. The French Canadiens and the English Colonials receive reinforcements from Muster Points, while the French 
and English Regulars must ship their reinforcements in through harbors. The game ends when the Treaty of Paris is signed. The 
side controlling the most Victory Symbol Areas wins the game.

Movement Phase
Movement Example
Ex: For the purple Movement Card shown, the French Regulars 
player may move up to three different Armies up to two Areas each. 
Armies are moved from Area to Area, across Area boundaries. 
Armies may move to and from Harbor Areas as if they were 
Land Areas. An Army must stop if it enters an Area occupied 
by enemy Units or independent Native Units . Armies cannot 
drop off or pick up Units while moving. Units may not move 
multiple times with different Armies during a single Turn.
A player need not move the full number of Armies indicated on 
the Movement Card, nor use all allowed movement for each Army.
3.3 Boat Movement
Open Water is the Area outside of Harbor Areas. Only French 
and British Regulars Armies may move through Open Water 
from one Harbor Area to another Harbor Area using their 
Movement Cards. The Open Water counts as one Area, so 
moving between Harbors costs a total of two moves. An Army 
may not stop in Open Water. Note: British Colonials , French 
Canadiens , and allied Native Units may be part of French 
or British Regulars Armies crossing open water.
3.4 Allying with Natives 
Native Units in an Area are independent until allied with a side. 
They become allied when British or French Units move into 
their Area. Once allied, the Native Units are controlled by 
that side. Native Units in different Areas may be allied to the 
French and British at the same time. 
As soon as allied Native Units do not have British or French 
Units in their Area, they become independent, until allied 
again with either side.
3.0 Play Movement Card
The Active Faction must play 
one (and only one) Movement 
Card at the beginning of its 
Movement Phase.
3.1 Armies
Armies are formed from 
Units in the same Area. An 
Army may include Units from 
factions of the same side and 
both sides may include Native 
Units in their Armies. A player 
may include all or some of the 
Units in the Area, but at least 1 
Unit must belong to the Active 
Faction. The Active Faction 
can then move the Army.
Ex: The Active French Regulars player (Purple) forms an Army 
in Area A (below) that includes 2 Regulars and 2 Canadiens . 
He will move all of these Units together as an Army to Area B.
3.2 Movement Card
Movement Cards allow armies to move from one Area to the 
next. Armies are moved by the Active Faction as permitted by 
the Movement Card they played.
The bottom of each Movement Card shows the maximum 
number of armies the Active Faction may move followed by 
how many Areas each Army may move. An Army, including 
any of its Units, may be moved only once during a Turn.
Movement Card
MOVEMENT
Number 
of Armies 
that may 
move
Number of Areas each 
Army may move.
Card
Number
Albany
New York
Philadelphia
Ft.
H
A new Round begins and the French Regulars player’s Turn 
Cube (purple) is drawn. During the Reinforcements Phase, 
he places 4 purple Reinforcements onto harbors on the map, 
one of which is placed on Harbor F. He also places a purple 
Fled Unit on Harbor F. He then plays a Movement Card that 
allows 3 Armies to move up to 2 Areas each (shown above). 
He forms an Army of all 4 Units in Area A and moves them 
into Area B. The Army must stop because it entered an Area 
with independent Native Units. It however allies with the 
Native Unit in Area B, which joins the French Army.
The player then forms a second Army in Area C and moves it 
into Area D and then into Harbor E, using both of the Army’s 
allowed moves. Notice that two Units were not included in the 
Army and were left behind in Area C. The Army may not pick 
up or drop off Units in Area D as it moves through.
Lastly, the player forms a third Army of 3 Units in Harbor F 
and moves it through Open Water into Harbor E. This uses up 
both of the Army’s two moves, one for moving into the Open 
Water Area and one for moving into Harbor E.
Note: Each of these Armies includes at least one French Regulars Unit 
 . The French Regulars player may not form an Army with the 
Units in Area D because there is no French Regulars Unit in it.
Now that all Army moves have been completed, the Active 
Faction moves on to its Battle Phase.

4.0 Battle Phase
A battle occurs when opposing Units occupy the same Land or 
Harbor Area. If there are multiple battles, the Active Faction 
chooses the order in which the battles are resolved.
Each faction’s controlling player rolls their own Battle Dice 
and makes decisions for their own Units. Each player rolls 
a number of Battle Dice equal to the number of their Units 
present in the battle. The maximum number of dice that may 
be rolled is the number of dice a faction possesses. 
Ex: The British Regulars possess 2 Battle Dice, whereas the 
French Canadiens possess 3 Battle Dice. 
The Active Faction’s side is the attacker, and their opponents 
are the defenders. The defenders have the initiative, and 
simultaneously roll their Battle Dice, applying the results. If 
Units of both sides remain in the battle, the attacking players 
then simultaneously roll their Battle Dice and apply the 
results. The battle continues, alternating back and forth, until 
only one side remains in the Area. 
4.1 Battle Dice Results
Each faction’s Battle Dice have a unique combination of Hit, 
Flee, and Command faces. 
4.1.1 Hit Result
When a Hit die face is rolled, an opponent’s Unit 
is removed from the battle and placed into their 
Reinforcements Stockpile. The opponents decide 
among themselves which Unit to remove if Units 
from more than one faction are present in the 
battle. If the opponents cannot agree on who’s 
Unit to remove, the attackers choose which Unit 
is removed. 
4.1.2 Flee Result
When a Flee die face is rolled, that faction’s player 
removes one of their own Units from the battle and 
places it into the Fled Units Space (2.4).
4.1.3 Command Result
When a Command (blank) die face is rolled, that 
faction’s player may decide to move one of their 
own Units out of the current battle. This Unit may 
move into any adjacent Area occupied by friendly 
Units, an empty Allied Home Area, or an empty 
green Native Home Area.
An adjacent Area that contains both friendly and enemy Units 
(an upcoming battle) may be moved into using a Command 
Result.
Hit and Flee results are resolved first, then Command results.
4.2 Victory Symbols
Some Areas contain Victory Symbols. If a side’s Units 
occupy an Opponent’s Home Area with a Victory 
Symbol, they place one of their side’s Control Markers 
(
 or 
 ) on the Victory Symbol. If a side’s Units no 
longer occupy one of these Opponent Victory 
Areas, their Control Marker is removed.
Note: Louisbourg contains two Victory Symbols. 
The British place two Control Markers if they 
occupy this French Home Area.
If the British no longer occupy this area, their 
Control Markers are removed. The French do not 
replace them with their own, because a side only 
places Control Markers to mark Opponent and 
Native Home Area occupation.
4.3 Natives in Battle 
Native Units may move and battle with either side. If at 
the beginning of a battle Native Units are included in both 
opposing Armies, then pairs of Native Units, one from each 
opposing Army, flee to the Fled Unit Space until only one side 
has Native Units remaining in their Army. The Battle then 
begins as normal.
If a side only has its allied Native Units remaining in a Battle, 
it loses the battle and the Native Units switch sides to become 
allied with their opponent’s.
4.4 Forts
When a battle includes a Fort 
 in the Area, 
one of the defending players rolls the black 
Fort Die at the same time that the attackers 
roll their Battle Dice. If the defender rolls a 
Block result 
 on the Fort Die, one of the 
attackers’ Hit Results is ignored. The blank 
sides of the Fort Die have no effect.
If the defending players use Command Results 
to move the last of their side’s Units out of 
the battle, they may destroy and remove the 
Fort Marker, so that the attackers do not gain 
control of the Fort.
Victory
Louisbourg
Fort Marker
Fort Die
Draw Cards Phase
5.0 Draw Cards Phase
At the end of the Active Faction’s Turn, the player discards the 
Movement and any Event (7.0) cards played. The player’s hand 
is then replenished back up to 3 cards. If there are not enough 
cards left in the faction Draw Deck, draw what remains.
If the Active Faction has no Movement Card (i.e., only Event 
Cards) in its hand after the draw, the Active Faction must 
show its cards, reshuffle them into its Draw Deck and draw 3 
new cards. The Active Faction must always have at least one 
Movement Card in its hand after drawing. 
The Active Faction’s Turn is now over. A new Turn Cube is 
drawn from the Draw Bag and that Faction becomes active 
and takes a Turn. If all Turn Cubes have been drawn, the 
Round is over and the Game End Conditions are checked 
(6.1). If the game does not end, a new Round begins.

Battle Examples
The British Colonials Army in Area A consists of 2 , 2 , 
and 2 . Both opposing Armies include Native Units , so 
a Native Unit from each of the British and French Armies 
must Flee to the Fled Unit Space. Only one Native Unit 
 
remains in the British Army.
1st French Side’s Roll
The defending French roll first. The French Regulars (purple) 
player rolls one purple Battle Die and the French Canadiens 
(yellow) player rolls all three yellow Battle Dice. Note: Even 
though the French Canadiens player has 4 Units in the battle, she 
can only roll 3 dice, since only 3 yellow Battle dice are available.
The French roll 1 Hit, 2 Flee, and 1 Command. The British 
players choose to remove one British Colonials (white) Unit.
Two French Canadiens Units flee and are placed into the Fled 
Unit Space.
The French Canadiens player may choose to use the Command 
Result to move one of her Units into Areas B, C, D, or E. She 
decides to move her Unit into Area B to help in its upcoming 
battle! Note: A player may use a Command Result to move into 
an upcoming adjacent battle. With proper planning, this can be 
a powerful strategic option!
1st British Side’s Roll
The British Regulars (red) player rolls her two red dice and 
the British Colonials (white) player rolls one of his white dice. 
Either British player may roll the one Native (green) die. One 
of the French players rolls the Fort Die, since the French are 
defending with a Fort Marker in the Area.
The British players roll 2 Hits, 1 Flee, and 1 Command. The 
French roll 1 Block on the Fort Die. The Block Result cancels one 
of the Hit results, so the British only inflict 1 Hit on the French.
The French decide to remove their remaining French 
Canadiens (yellow) Unit.
The Native (green) Unit flees to the Fled Units Space.
A British Regulars (red) Unit may use the Command Result to 
move into Areas B, C, or F but the player decides to keep the 
Unit in the Battle. Note: The British players may not use Command 
Results to move into purple French Home Areas not occupied by 
British Units and the French players may not use Command results 
to move into red British Home Areas not occupied by French Units. 
Both players may use Command Results to move into green Native 
Areas that are empty or occupied by friendly Units.
2nd French Side’s Roll
Only the French Regulars player rolls one die, since the French 
Canadiens player has no Units left in the battle. He rolls a 
Command result and moves his Unit into Area B, so that it 
can participate in the upcoming battle. Since the French player 
is moving his last Unit out with a Command Result, he may 
destroy the Fort Marker. He chooses to do so and removes 
the marker. There are no French Units left in the battle so the 
British win! The French remove their Control Marker from 
Area A, to be replaced by a British Control Marker. Note: If 
the French players had not destroyed the Fort Marker, the British 
would have gained control of the Fort after they won the Battle.
It is the British Colonials player’s turn (white). During her 
Movement Phase she moved Armies into Areas A and B that 
contained enemy Units, so battles will be fought in each of 
these Areas. She decides to resolve the battle in Area A first. 

Event Cards
Card Clarifications
7.0 Event Cards
Each faction has unique Event Cards in its deck. The Active 
Faction may play any number of Event Cards from its hand 
during its Turn. Each Event Card specifies in which Phase it 
may be played.
Ex: The British Regulars player may play the Joseph Brant Event 
Card during her Reinforcements Phase.
Movement Cards (Faction Cards #02-08)
Each card describes how many Armies may move 
and how many Areas each Army may move. 
Ex: The French Canadiens player may move 3 armies 
up to two Areas each. An Army must stop when it 
enters an enemy occupied Area or an Area occupied 
by independent Native Units.
William Pitt (British Colonials Card #11)
Bolster (French Canadiens Card #12)
These Event Cards allow the British Colonials or 
French Canadiens player to upgrade one of their 
Muster Markers from the side that provides only 
2 Units to the side that provides 3 Units each 
Reinforcements Phase.
Marquis de Vaudreuil (French Canadiens Card #09)
Virginia Regiment (British Colonials Card #09)
These Event Cards allow the French Canadiens 
or British Colonials player to move one of 
their Muster Markers to one of their Home 
Areas with a City Symbol not controlled by the 
enemy or to a Native Home Area with a City 
Symbol that is controlled by their side.
City 
Québec
George Washington (British Colonials Card #12)
Fortifications (French Regulars Card #11)
These Event Cards allow the British Colonials 
or French Regulars player to place a Fort 
Marker on ANY Area with a Fort Symbol not 
controlled by the enemy.
Truce Card (Faction Card #01)
A player plays a Truce Card as a Movement Card. After 
play, this card is not discarded, but is placed face up beside 
the map. Once both factions of either side have played their 
Truce Cards, the game ends at the end of Round 3 or later. 
Ex: The British Regulars player plays his Truce Card 
and may move 3 armies up to two Areas each. 
Joseph Brant
Place 3 Native Units 
Areas with Fort Markers or 
any green Native Home Areas.
The young Joseph Brant participated in several battles 
in the war. He was one of only a few natives to be 
awarded a silver medal for his participation in the war. 
Card Name
Card Effects
Card Number
Historical 
Text
The Phase 
the Event 
Card is 
played in.
TRUCE
William Pitt
Flip one white Colonial 
Muster Marker. It provides 
3 Units during the Colonial 
Reinforcement Phase for the 
rest of the game.
William Pitt was named secretary of state 
in 1757. He was committed to defeating the 
French in North America and generously 
funded the expansion of the militias.
Game End & Victory
6.0 Truce Cards
Each Faction has one Movement Card that 
is marked as a Truce Card. After being 
played, a Truce Card is placed face up 
beside the map instead of being discarded. 
This enables players to track which Truce 
Cards have been played. 
6.1 Game End by Treaty
At the end of Rounds 3 thru 8, if all Truce 
Cards of one or both sides have been 
played, the game ends. The side with the 
TRUCE
most Control Markers (4.2) on the map wins. If there is a tie, 
the game is a draw.
Note: A side’s Control Markers only occupy Opponent or Native 
Home Areas, never its own Home Areas.
Ex: In Round 1, the French Canadiens player (yellow) played 
her Truce Card. In Round 4, the British Colonials player 
(white) played his Truce Card. In Round 5, the French 
Regulars player (purple) is the first to take a Turn and plays 
his Truce Card. Both French factions have now played their 
Truce Cards and the game will end with the current Round, 
after all of the factions have taken their Turn. 
Marquis de Vaudreuil
Move one yellow Canadien 
Muster Marker to another 
Town the French control in 
a purple French or a green 
Native Home Area.
Vaudreuil was the governor of New France and won 
several early raids against British supply lines.
George Washington
Place one Fort Marker in 
an Area with a Fort Symbol 
where there is not already a 
Fort Marker.
After the battle of Jummonville Glen, the 
opening battle of the war, George Washington 
pulled back and built Fort Necessity where he 
was later defeated and captured.
William Johnson (British Regulars Card #09)
At the beginning of each Battle during the British 
Regulars player’s turn, all French allied Native Units 
become British allied Native Units. If both sides start 
with Native Units , no Native Units flee. Instead, all 
the Native Units join the British.
Massacre (French Canadiens Card #10)
If the French Canadiens player has Native Units in 
their army when the British Colonials player rolls a 
Flee Result, the fled Colonials Unit is killed instead 
of being placed into the Fled Unit Space.
William Johnson
During all Battles this turn, all 
French allied Native Units 
 
become British allies and fight 
on the British side.
William Johnson was the British superintendent 
of Indian affairs during the French Indian War 
and recruited many Iroquois warriors to fight 
for the British.
Massacre
During all Battles, if the 
Canadien player has Native 
Units 
 in their attacking 
Army, Colonial Units that 
flee are killed.
After the British were defeated and formally 
surrendered at Fort William Henry, Native 
warriors continued to attack and killed many 
defenseless prisoners. 
Fort 
Ft. Presque I
MOVEMENT

Historical Overview
The Seven Years’ War (1754-1763) between the French and 
British is one of the first great wars, occurring on fronts across 
Europe, parts of Africa, the Indian subcontinent and across 
the Atlantic Ocean in North America. In these geographical 
regions, the conflict is known by different names. It is known 
as the French and Indian War in the United States. In French-
speaking Canada, it is known as the War of the Conquest, 
while it is called the Seven Years’ War in English-speaking 
Canada. Though there was a long history of animosity between 
the French and the British, the conflicts which arose in North 
America were a catalyst to the eventual declaration of war 
between these two countries. 
The outcome of the French 
and Indian War changed the 
culture of North America 
dramatically, 
to 
dominantly 
Anglophone 
culture we know today.
The French Pre-War
The French had a long history in North America. Beginning 
with the exploration of the Saint Lawrence River by Jacques 
Cartier in 1534, when France claimed the land as New France. 
At its peak in 1712, the territory of New France, also sometimes 
known as the French North American Empire or Royal New 
France, occupied the largest portion of North America. It 
extended from Newfoundland to the Rocky Mountains and 
from Hudson Bay to the Gulf of Mexico. The French territory 
existing in the St. Lawrence River Valley was known as Canada. 
By 1753, Canada appeared to be a permanent fixture with 
farms, towns, cities, colleges and cathedrals. French society 
was centered in the cities of Québec and Montréal, in the 
fortress of Louisbourg and spread thinly through villages 
along the St. Lawrence and in small forts that advanced French 
territory into the interior.
The French had a strong alliance with the Natives. They forged 
alliances with dozens of Native nations who were living in close 
proximity, enabling French 
control of the west and the 
interior of the continent from 
Fort Detroit to Louisiana. The 
French admired the Natives’ 
courage and needed their 
numbers and their skills at 
tracking and for trade.
The British Pre-War
The English had a greater population than the French and 
controlled the eastern coast from Halifax to Savannah, 
but growth was geographically limited by the Appalachian 
Mountains. A group of Virginian business men viewed the 
fertile Ohio Valley as a land of great opportunity. They forged 
passage over the Appalachian Mountains to expand the British 
colony into the Ohio Valley. 
War Begins
In 1753, the Ohio Company of Virginia received large land 
grants from the British Crown to settle the Ohio Valley, 
creating friction between the British colonialists and the local 
Natives. Meanwhile, Canada in the north felt it had nothing to 
gain from stopping this westward advance of British 
settlement. However, in Europe, the French government 
decided that it could pose a threat to its territorial claims. With 
British settlers on the verge of moving into the Ohio Valley, 
the French sent an expedition southward that established a 
chain of supply depots and forts from Lake Erie deep into the 
Ohio Valley. A year later, in 1754, the Ohio Company built a 
fort on the site of modern-
day Pittsburgh and conflict 
between the French and 
British erupted. The fort was 
quickly taken and destroyed 
by the French and their Native 
allies 
and 
subsequently 
replaced by Fort Duquesne.
The Ohio Company and the colony of 
Virginia sent a small force led by George 
Washington to defend their claim on 
the region only to be again defeated 
by the French and their Native allies. 
Washington was forced to withdraw 
his army back across the Appalachian 
Mountains. This incident quickly led to 
open war between France and Britain; 
on May 17, 1756, Britain officially declared war on France, 
beginning the Seven Years’ War. In this widespread, global 
conflict, North America would be the site of some of its most 
famous battles.
The French Plan
Québec was the center of France’s operations in North 
America, and by 1756 it had become a wartime city, filled 
with soldiers and refugees. New France’s governor general 
was Pierre de Rigaud, the Marquis de Vaudreuil, a 60-year-
old colonial aristocrat born in Québec. He was commander-
in-chief of the Canadien militia, and through guerrilla tactics 
and shrewd deployment of his limited military resources, 
Governor Vaudreuil was able to fend off the larger British 
forces and American militia.
George Washington

General Louis-Joseph, the Marquis 
de Montcalm was a 47-year-old career 
soldier. He was sent from France to 
command 
troupes-de-terre 
(ground troops) and to bolster the 
military efforts of Governor Vaudreuil 
and his Canadiens. In contrast to 
Governor Vaudreuil’s guerrilla tactics, 
General Montcalm used the European strategy of warfare by 
bringing large forces directly to bear on each other, then 
delivering a single well-timed volley that would devastate the 
enemy. Governor Vaudreuil and General Montcalm despised 
one another and both wrote regularly to France, informing 
their superiors of the other’s shortcomings. 
In the conflicts that took place in the interior of the continent, 
the French and British were well matched, even though they 
had widely different armies. There were far more British 
colonials than there were French, but the British were divided 
amongst the colonies which struggled with internal political 
issues and had no unified 
leader. The French, on the other 
hand, were fewer in number 
but had a professional garrison 
of troops, a trained militia, a 
First-Nations alliance, and a 
unified allegiance.
The British took the offensive and tried to expel the French 
from the disputed territory in the Ohio Valley with little luck. 
The French responded with pre-emptive strikes that captured 
British outposts before they could be used to make advances 
into French Territory. 
In the first battles of the war, General Montcalm took Fort 
Oswego from the British on the south shore of Lake Ontario. 
Then on August 3, 1757, General Montcalm led the Siege of 
Fort William Henry at the southern tip of Lake George. He 
used traditional tactics, employing siege guns and French 
soldiers. With an army of 3,600 men he defeated Major-
General James Abercromby’s 
force of 15,000 after 6 days of 
siege, a stunning tactical 
defeat. By contrast, Governor 
Vaudreuil 
assigned 
Canadien and Native militia 
to conduct raids that were 
designed 
to 
destroy 
enemy’s morale.
The military victories were welcome news in France but the 
colony in North America was suffering from lack of food, 
smallpox, savage battles, and uneasy alliances. This difficult time 
inspired the famous quote from the French writer Voltaire who 
wondered if Canada was worth fighting for and said “two nations 
are at war about a few acres of snow”.
Marquis de Montcalm
The British Plan
At this point the French 
were dominating in Europe, 
so the British decided to 
concentrate their efforts in 
North America and attack 
the French where they were 
weak. The initial setbacks 
for the British were not a 
deterrent and they committed more troops, more ships and 
more money to the North American front. They decided to 
shift their objectives to give them a much needed advantage. 
Instead of trying to secure the disputed lands, they would use 
their naval superiority to eliminate the French once and for all 
by taking Louisbourg and Québec. The first step was to capture 
Louisbourg, the French fortress that guarded the entrance to 
the Gulf of St. Lawrence on what is now Cape Breton Island 
in the province of Nova Scotia. It was a key military site and a 
training base for the French navy.
The Siege of Louisbourg
Louisbourg, under the French Governor Augustin de 
Drucour, was heavily defended by a garrison of soldiers, 
militia, and 10 warships. In 1758 the British sent a massive 
force of 12,000 troops, 39 ships, and almost 2,000 mounted 
guns - the Siege of Louisbourg began. The siege was led by 
the British commander Major General Jeffery Amherst. 
Governor Drucour knew that Louisbourg could not hold off 
the British but his plan was to delay the British long enough 
so that they would not be able to continue up the St. Lawrence 
to Québec before winter set in. In late July 1758, after almost 
2 months under siege, Governor Drucour finally surrendered 
Louisbourg. The French were deported back to France and the 
Fortress was completely demolished.
The Siege of Québec
Among the British invaders of Louisbourg 
was a 31-year-old brigadier-general 
named James Wolfe. A 17-year military 
veteran, he had participated in battles in 
Scotland and Belgium. After their victory 
at Louisbourg, Wolfe believed that there 
was still time to sail up the St. Lawrence 
River and take Québec before winter set 
in, but the rest of the command did not 
agree and they returned to London for the winter. The 
following spring, Wolfe left London with a quarter of the 
British navy, a massive fleet of 
over a hundred ships carrying 
15,000 soldiers. As the fleet 
moved up the St. Lawrence 
River, they were plagued by 
farm boys and old men firing 
at them from the woods but 
Wolfe had come to fight the 
James Wolfe

French, not the Canadiens. In June of 1759, they landed just 
downriver from Québec. By this time, the French had 
established defenses around Québec that consisted of a line of 
entrenchments along the shore to the east and a chain of 
military outposts covering the roads to the west of the city.
General Montcalm also had an army of 15,000 troops, but he 
knew he would need more. He had previously sent a message 
to France requesting reinforcements but only received a mere 
400. It seemed that France was more concerned with the war 
on the home front than in North America. General Montcalm 
hoped to survive, but he had been predicting military defeat 
for the French in Canada for months, writing to the minister 
of war that it was inevitable after the fall of Louisbourg.
The battle began with a lengthy siege of Québec but Wolfe was 
not satisfied with just battering down the town walls. Wolfe 
had to get his troops back to England before the ice made the 
St. Lawrence impassable. While waiting for starvation to draw 
the enemy out, the British 
were constantly involved in 
skirmishes with the Canadiens 
and the Natives resulting in 
mounting 
casualties. 
If 
General Montcalm could 
simply endure, he would win 
this war of attrition.
For over 2 months, Brigadier General Wolfe tried and failed to 
force his way into Québec or to lure the French army out. As the 
summer passed on, Wolfe was infuriated by General Montcalm’s 
inaction and gave the order to burn the surrounding countryside. 
Twenty-three villages and 1,400 farmhouses were torched. There 
were now only 4 weeks left before he would be forced to take 
the world’s largest naval force home to winter in England. On 
September 13, 1759, Wolfe made one last attempt; at around 
midnight he quietly landed his army in an unlikely cove at the 
foot of a steep cliff. After spending hours scaling the 50 meter 
cliff, at dawn Brigadier-General Wolfe stood on the Plains of 
Abraham with his army only a few kilometers from Québec. 
When General Montcalm received news of the British 
landing, he quickly assembled his army and marched west to 
meet them. The French army was then joined by the Canadien 
militia and their ferocious Native allies, the Huron and the 
Algonquin.
The battle began with random sniper fire coming from the 
cornfields and woods and by 8:00 a.m. the British artillery 
began firing. As the two armies clashed, Wolfe was spotted 
and shot through the wrist by a sniper. His wound was bound 
by a handkerchief and he continued on. Later he was shot in 
the groin and had to be helped forward, where a third and 
fatal shot hit him in the chest. As he slumped to the ground he 
received the news that the enemy was in retreat. 
On the other side of the line, General Montcalm received a 
mortal wound just below his ribs. He was carried from the 
field by his men to the Hôpital-Général where he later died of 
his wounds.
The British narrowly took the 
victory and by September 18th 
1759, the British flag was raised 
over Québec. A small garrison 
was left to hold the city over the 
winter months while the British 
fleet returned to England. 
In Montréal, General FranÇois-Gaston de Lévis planned to 
recapture Québec. He still had an army of 7,000 troops and 
sent word to France to send another 4,000 reinforcements. 
Unlike General Montcalm, General Lévis embraced the 
guerrilla warfare tactics of the Canadiens and Natives. He 
trained them to fight along side the French troops to avoid 
disastrous mistakes. 
Through the long winter, both sides were cut off from Europe. 
General Lévis hoped that the 4,000 troops he had requested 
would come. He marched on Québec with his army of 7,000 
and on the morning of April 28, 1760, he stood on the Plains 
of Abraham. The British army moved to meet them and 
brought 20 pieces of field artillery. The two armies fired into 
each other’s lines for two hours until the British finally 
retreated back to the city. At the end of the day the French flag 
flew on the Plains of Abraham but the Union Jack still flew 
over Québec.
After the battle, both armies waited to 
see whose navy would come up the St. 
Lawrence River bringing reinforcements 
first. After 11 days a ship appeared. The 
British had won the transatlantic race. 
William Pitt, the British secretary of state, 
had sent 22 ships with reinforcements. 
France had been suffering defeats in 
Europe and had only sent 5 ships and 400 
men. General Lévis quickly retreated to 
Montréal but was soon overtaken by the 
British armies. 
Negotiations
After the French defeat, Governor Vaudreuil, now the 
Governor of New France, negotiated a single yet important 
exception in the terms of their surrender. The exception was 
that the French were to retain religious freedom and could 
remain Catholic. This was a dramatic exception given that in 
Protestant England, Catholics had few civil rights at the time. 
On September 8, 1760, half of North America changed hands 
and England now had 65,000 French-speaking, Catholic 
subjects. The Canadien militia returned to their farms and 
villages and the French soldiers who had married Canadien 
women were allowed to stay. A garrison of 3,000 British troops 
remained in Québec, the rest left for Europe or were reposted.
William Pitt

1754 - Conquest AYG 5354
Copyright © 2016-17 Academy Games, Inc.
Fremont, Ohio USA 419-307-6531
www.AcademyGames.com
Version 25
Game Design: 
Beau Beckett and Jeph Stahl
Project Managers: 
Gunter Eickert, Uwe Eickert
Box Cover Art: 
Stephen Paschal www.stephenpaschal.com
Game Art:
Jarek Nocoń
Historical Write-Up: 
Beau Beckett and Liisa Toose
Rules Review and Editing: 
Daniel U. Thibault, Christian Burnett, Mark Davis, 
Matthew DeGoey, Tim Densham, Matthew Dedrick, 
Joel Imhoff, David Lowry, James Palmer 
AYG 5354
In the spring of 1761, peace talks between England and France 
began in Europe. William Pitt was negotiating for the English 
and Étienne-FranÇois de Choiseul for the French. These two 
men detested one another and negotiations proceeded slowly. 
Both Pitt and Choiseul were eventually removed from the 
negotiating table and an agreement was finally reached on 
November 3, 1762. The French would give Canada to the 
English and France would retain Guadeloupe in the Caribbean 
and fishing rights in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The following 
year, the peace treaty was 
formally ratified in Paris and 
passed 
British 
parliament. The war had been 
won but it left Britain heavily 
in debt. This debt, which led 
to higher taxation of the 
colonies, would eventually 
result 
American 
Revolution.
Conclusion
By 1763, the French state had essentially been expelled from 
North America. The deeply rooted colonies of Canada and 
Louisbourg that had seemed so permanent a decade before 
had been absorbed into British provinces. Although these 
new provinces were under British rule, the people, language, 
religion, and French-Canadien culture survived. For the First 
Nations people it was a different story. The fighting between 
the English and French had been resolved, but the First 
Nations people were excluded from any of the peace talks. The 
British victory had disturbed 150 years of alliance between the 
French and the Native peoples. The French forts of the interior 
were now occupied by the British which opened up traditional 
Native territories to British settlement.
The French and Indian War left a legacy of global conflict 
and cultural change. It set the tone for how wars were fought, 
soured the relations between colonials and First Nations 
communities, and changed the dominant culture in North 
America from French to English.
	
	
Historical Writeup by Beau Beckett and Liisa Toose
Definitions
Allied Native Units - Native Units occupying an Area with 
either British or French Units. These Allied Native Units can 
be moved by their British or French allies and participate in 
battles with them.
Independent Native Units - Native Units occupying an Area 
alone, with no British or French Units. British or French 
Armies must stop when they move into an Independent 
Native Area. They then immediately become allied. 
Turn Cubes - The five dice with all blank sides.
Index
Active Faction ...........................
1.2
Allying with First Nations .......
3.4
Army ..........................................
3.1
Battle Dice .................................
4.1
 Command Result ................
4.1.3
 Flee Result ............................
4.1.2
 Hit Result ..............................
4.1.1
Battle Phase ...............................
4.0
Boat Movement ........................
3.3
Control Marker ........................
4.2
Draw Cards Phase ....................
5.0
Event Cards ...............................
7.0
Fled Units ..................................
2.4
Forts ...........................................
4.4
Game End .................................
6.1
Movement Card .......................
3.2
Muster Marker ..........................
2.1
Native Battles ............................
4.3
Native Reinforcement/Symbol
2.3
Reinforcements - Regulars ...... 
2.0
Reinforcements - Colonials ....
2.1
Reinforcements Stockpile .........
2.2
Round ........................................
1.0
Truce Cards ...............................
6.0
Turn Sequence ..........................
1.2
Victory Symbols .......................
4.2