Version 22
Rule & Scenario Book

Augusta
Savannah
Charles Town
Wilmington
Norfolk
York
P
E
13 Yellow Faction Cards
45 Yellow Loyalist Unit Cubes
3 Yellow Loyalist Battle Dice
3 Battle Dice
1 Patriot Militia
12 White Faction Cards
45 White Patriot Unit Cubes
3 White Patriot Battle Dice
3 Battle Dice
4 Draw Faction Cards
Separate out your Faction Cards 
numbered 01-12 (cards above 12 are 
used in the Siege of Quebec scenario). 
Shuffle these cards to form your Draw 
Deck. Draw a starting hand of three cards.
1 Choose a Faction
Each player chooses a Faction to play 
and takes the corresponding number 
of Unit Cubes listed, Battle Dice, and 
Faction Cards. 
2 Place Starting Units 
Populate the Areas on the map with 
Units matching the colored squares 
printed in the corner of that Area.
3 Place Control Flags 
Place a British Control Flag (
 ) on 
Delaware, Nova Scotia, and Quebec. 
Place an American Control Flag (
on Rhode Island and Connecticut. 
5 Place Additional Units
Place the 4 Turn Cubes (blank-sided 
dice) in the Draw Bag and draw one at 
random. 
The Faction whose cube is drawn and 
the other Faction on the same Side each 
place 4 Units of their color in any Areas 
where their Side has Units.
Then the opposing Side does the same.
 
 
A Colonies and Areas
Colonies are large, named 
regions of one color, such as 
Virginia. Players must control 
Colonies to win the game (pg. 6).
Areas are smaller regions inside 
Colonies divided by dashed lines.
B City Areas
City Areas have City Icons 
 in them, 
such as York and Norfolk. Reinforcements 
must be placed in City Areas (pg. 7).
C Water Areas
Water Areas include lakes, 
rivers, and the Atlantic Ocean 
(which is connected to the St. 
Lawrence River). They may be 
traversed with Water Movement 
Cards (pg. 8).
D River Crossings
River Crossings are grayed out spaces 
where armies may cross rivers without 
using Water Movement Cards (pg. 8). 
They also mark the divisions between 
separate Water Areas.

Academy Games Copyright © 2012
F
G
D
Hessian Mercenaries
12 Orange Hessian Unit Cubes
2 Orange Hessian Battle Dice
Native Americans
18 Green Native American Unit Cubes
2 Green Native American Battle Dice
French Regulars
10 Purple French Regulars Unit Cubes
2 Purple French Regulars Battle Dice
Control Flags 
16 Double-Sided Control Flags
2 Battle Dice
British Regulars
15 Red Faction Cards
35 Red British Regulars Unit Cubes
2 Red British Regulars Battle Dice
1 Continental Army
14 Blue Faction Cards
40 Blue Continental Army Unit Cubes
2 Blue Continental Army Battle Dice
2 Battle Dice
7 Place Round 
Pawn
Place the Round Pawn on the 
“I” space of the Round Track.
Teaching video available at: 
AcademyGames.com/1775
6 Create
Reinforcement
Stockpiles
Create Reinforcement 
Stockpiles for each Faction 
from the Units that were not 
placed on the map.
Create separate Stockpiles 
with 4 Native American 
Units (
 ), 12 Hessian Units 
 ), and 10 French Units 
 ) beside the board, along 
with the matching Battle 
Dice.
E Control Flags
Control Flags are placed on 
the Star Icon 
 on Colonies 
your Side controls (pg. 6). 
There are 16 double-sided 
Control Flags.
F Fled Units Space
Units that flee from battle 
(pg. 10) are placed on the 
Fled Units Space until their 
Faction’s next Reinforcements 
Phase (pg. 7).
G Round and Turn Tracks
The Round Track keeps track of 
progression through the game and 
when victory is possible (pg. 5).
The Turn Track is where each 
Faction’s Turn Cube is placed 
when it is their turn to play (pg. 5).

The year is 1775. The American colonies have begun to stockpile arms and organize militia in outrage over new 
taxes imposed upon them by Great Britain. On April 18th, militia members ambush a column of 700 British 
Redcoats ordered to seize stockpiled arms. 273 British soldiers are killed or wounded before they reach safety in 
Boston. The American Revolution has begun!
In 1775: Rebellion, players control the major factions that participated in the American Revolution. The British 
players control the British Regulars (Redcoats), Loyalist Militia, and German Hessian Mercenaries; the American 
players control the Continental Army, Patriot Militia, and French Regulars. Both sides may ally themselves with 
the Native Americans. 
Players for each side work together in order to coordinate their strategies. Each side attempts to control colonies 
on the map, placing reinforcements in cities they control and moving them into battle. 
The game ends when a truce is called, and the side that controls the most colonies wins the game. 
If this is your first time playing a game in the Birth of America Colonial Trilogy, we recommend starting with the 
Introductory Scenario described on page 14.
To help you learn the rules, it is suggested that you first set up the 
game. Several important game terms are introduced during setup.
A broad overview of the game and table of contents.
An explanation of the basic flow of the game and the Phases that 
make up a Round, as well as several core game concepts.
Each of the four Turn Phases is described in its own section with 
multiple examples.
Rules for playing Event Cards and detailed card clarifications.
Rules for playing the Introductory Scenario and the Siege of Quebec 
Scenario.
A detailed historical overview is provided that highlights the 
fascinating people and events of this critical period of American 
history.
Setup — pg. 2
Overview & Contents — pg. 4
Game Play — pg. 5
Controlling Colonies &
Allied Units — pg. 6
Reinforcement Phase — pg. 7
Movement Phase — pg. 8
Battle Phase — pg. 10
Draw Cards Phase — pg. 12
Event Cards — pg. 12
Card Clarifications — pg. 13 
Alternate Scenarios — pg. 14
Historical Overview — pg. 16
Throughout this rulebook, examples appear in red text.
Notes appear in blue text to provide important rules clarifications, 
designer insights, and historical info.
Overview
Table of Contents

SIDES AND FACTIONS
In 1775: Rebellion, the British (
 ) and the 
Americans (
 ) battle for control of the Colonies. 
Each Side is made up of two partnered Factions and 
their allies, who win or lose together: 
Partnered players may show each other their hand of 
Faction Cards and freely discuss strategy to ensure the 
downfall of their opponents.
Fewer than Four Players: When playing with 
fewer than four players, a player may control both 
Factions on one Side. All Factions must be played.
ROUNDS AND TURNS
The game is played over three to eight Rounds. Each 
Round, all four Factions take a Turn in random order. 
Drawing Turn Cubes: At the start of a Round, 
place all four Turn Cubes into the Draw Bag. 
Blindly draw the first Turn Cube from the bag and 
place it on the “1st” space of the Turn Track. The 
Faction whose Turn Cube is drawn takes the first turn.
After each Faction completes their Turn, determine 
who will take the next Turn by blindly drawing 
another Turn Cube and placing it on the next open 
space on the Turn Track.
Round End: The Round ends after all four Factions 
have had a Turn. 
Advance the Round Pawn to the next space on the 
Round Track and begin a new Round. 
TURN PHASES
When a Faction’s Turn Cube is drawn, they become 
the Active Faction. 
The Active Faction performs the following Turn 
Phases in order: 
1) Reinforcements Phase (pg. 7) 
2) Movement Phase (pg. 8-9)
3) Battle Phase (pg. 10-11)
4) Draw Cards Phase (pg. 12)
GAME END
Starting on Round III and in all subsequent Rounds, 
you must check whether the British Side or American 
Side has played both of its Truce Cards (pg. 8). If either 
Side has, the game ends and a winner is determined.
Win Condition: The Side that controls the most 
Colonies when the game ends is the winner.
 Continental Army (
Draw
The game can end in a draw if both Sides 
control the same number of Colonies. 
In that case, neither Side wins, and 
America becomes a southern province 
of French Canada. :)
Game Play

HESSIAN AND FRENCH UNITS
Hessian Units (
 ): Hessian Mercenaries are 
Allied Units on the British Side. Their Units enter the 
game when the British play certain Event Cards (pg. 12). 
During the Revolutionary War, the British employed 
tens of thousands of German Hessian mercenaries.
French Units (
 ): French Regulars  are Allied 
Units on the American Side. Their Units enter the 
game when the Americans play certain Event Cards 
(pg. 12). 
The French were at war 
with the British almost 
continuously for the 900 
years leading up to the 
American Revolution. 
The conflict gave the 
French an opening to 
take lucrative territory 
from Britain in the 
Caribbean. 
NATIVE AMERICAN UNITS
Native American Units (
 ): Native Americans 
are independent until a Side allies with them. Additional 
Native American Units can enter the game as a Side’s 
allies when certain Event Cards are played (pg. 12).
While many Native Americans sided with the British 
hoping to prevent colonial expansion, tribes like the 
Iroquois and Cherokee were divided between factions 
that supported opposing sides. 
Allying with Native Americans: To ally with 
independent Native American Units, move your Units 
into an Area where there are only Native American 
Units present. The Native American Units in the Area 
become your Side’s Allied Units and can be controlled 
by your Side.
If Native American Units are ever left alone in an 
Area, they return to being independent. 
The Americans and British may have Native American 
Allied Units at the same time, in different Areas.
COLONY CONTROL
You control a Colony when both of the following 
conditions are met:
•	Your Side has Units in at least one Area in the 
Colony
•	There are no opposing Units or independent 
Native American Units in any Area in the Colony
Native American Units that are allied with your Side 
do not prevent control of a Colony. (pg. 6).
Placing Control Flags: When your Side takes 
control of a Colony, place an American or British 
Control Flag on the star icon on that Area. 
Remove the Control Flag if an opposing Faction has 
Units in the Colony at the end of a Turn, or if your Side 
moves all of its Units out of the Colony.
Example A : 
Neither Side controls 
Pennsylvania, because 
both Sides have Units there 
and there are independent 
Native American Units.
Example B : 
The Americans now control 
Pennsylvania, because they 
have driven the British out 
of Philadelphia and allied 
with the Native Americans 
(pg. 6) to the North. Their 
Control Flag indicates they 
control it.
Allied Control
French or Hessian Units 
can control a Colony on 
behalf of their Side even 
if neither player Faction 
on that Side has Units 
present. 
Controlling Colonies
Allied Units

PLACE REINFORCEMENTS
At the start of the Reinforcements Phase, take 4 Units 
from your Faction’s Reinforcement Stockpile. 
Place them in one or more City Areas in Colonies 
your Side controls.
You must control an entire Colony to place 
Reinforcements in any City in that Colony.
Reinforcement Limit: Each Faction’s Reinforce-
ment Stockpile has a limited number of Units. 
If you have fewer than 4 Units in your Stockpile at the 
start of your Reinforcement Phase, place all of your 
remaining Units.
PLACE FLED UNITS
The Fled Units Space contains Units that have fled 
from Battle (pg. 10). 
If your Faction has Units on the Fled Units Space at 
the start of the Reinforcement Phase, take them and 
place them in one or more City Areas in Colonies 
your side controls.
You may only place Fled Hessians and Fled Native 
Americans by playing specific Event Cards.
Reinforcement Example A : 
George plays the Continental Army (
 ). His Turn Cube is 
drawn from the bag first, so he takes the first Turn.
George has 4 
 Reinforcements to place. He wants to 
attack Prince Town to take control of New Jersey. He has 
units in the Areas adjacent to Prince Town to north and 
south. 
However, he cannot place Reinforcements in the Area 
north 1 because it is not a City Area, and he cannot 
place Reinforcements in Trenton 2 because he does not 
control New Jersey Colony.
He decides to place 3  in Hartford 3  , the closest City in a 
Colony he controls. He places his last 1  in New Port 4  .
Reinforcement 
Example B : 
Anne plays the Loyalist 
Militia (
). 
At the start of her Turn, 
there are 2 
 on the Fled 
Units Space 5  .
She adds the 2 Fled 
 to 
the 4 
she may place. She places 
 into Dover 6 to 
reinforce the 2 
 stationed 
there, and 1 
 into 
Halifax, Nova Scotia which 
the British also control.
Unable to Reinforce
If your Side does not control any Colonies at the start 
of your Turn, you may not place Reinforcements or 
Fled Units. 
The Reinforcements you would have placed return to 
your Stockpile and your Fled Units stay on the Fled 
Units Space.
Reinforcement Phase

PLAY A MOVEMENT CARD
At the start of the Movement Phase, play one (and only 
one) Movement Card from your hand to command 
your Units to form Armies and move to new Areas. 
FORM ARMIES
Army Icons: You may form one Army 
per Army Icon on your Movement Card. An 
Army is a temporary group of Units that 
move together from one Area to another.
Army Rules:
•	An Army may include some or all of the Units in a 
single Area.
•	An Army may include the Active Faction’s Units, 
their partner Faction’s Units, and their Allied Units.
•	An Army must include at least one of the Active 
Faction’s Units.
MOVE ARMIES
Distance Icon: You may move each Army 
you form by the number of Areas shown 
under the arrow on your Movement Card.
Movement Rules:
•	Each Army and each Unit may only move once 
per Movement Phase.
•	 An Army cannot drop off or pick up Units while 
moving. 
•	An Army must stop if it enters an Area occupied by 
opposing Units or independent Native American 
Units.
•	An Army may cross a river at a River Crossing. 
WATER MOVEMENT CARDS
A Water Movement Card allows you to move each 
Army from an Area adjoining a Water Area to any 
other Area adjoining the same Water Area. 
River Crossings: Gray River Crossings mark the 
“end” of a Water Area. Armies moving by water may 
not move past a River Crossing. 
Warship 
Cards: 
Warships 
allow you to form one or two 
Armies (according to the number 
of Army Icons shown) and move 
each of them individually across 
any Water Area. 
The British Regulars (
 ) and 
Continental Army (
 ) have 
Warship Movement Cards.
Boat Cards: Boats allow you 
to form two Armies of up to 3 
Units each, in one or two Areas 
adjoining the same Water Area. 
Both Armies must move across 
the water to the same Area.
The Loyalist Militia (
 ) and 
 ) have Boat 
Movement Cards.
4.3 TRUCE CARDS
Each Faction has one Truce Card (pg. 5) in their deck. A 
Truce Card is a Movement Card and is played during 
the Movement Phase. 
If you have only one Movement Card in your hand, 
you must play it, even if it is your Truce Card!
St. Lawrence River
The St. Lawrence River is considered part of the 
Atlantic Ocean during Water Movement (up to the 
River Crossing south of Quebec City).
Example: The British Regulars (
 ) play a Warship 
Card and move an Army from Quebec City to Savannah, 
Georgia.
Boat Movement
Warship Movement
Movement Phase

Boat Movement
Movement Example B :
George, as the Continental Army (
 ), 
plays a Movement Card that allows him to 
move three Armies up to two Areas each. 
He forms an Army of 1 
 in 
Hartford 1 where he placed some 
Reinforcements, and moves it northwest 
into Prince Town. He chooses to leave 
 behind.
Next, he forms an Army of 1 
 in 
Newport 2 and a third Army of 2 
 in the Area north of Newport 3 and 
moves them both into Boston.
All of George’s Armies must include at 
least 1 
 from his own Faction. 
Movement Example C :
On her next Turn, Anne (
 ) plays a 
Boat Movement Card. 
She forms an Army of 2 
 
in Dover 4 and an Army of 1 
 in New York City 5 . She moves 
both Armies across the Atlantic to 
Hartford.
When moving by boat, Anne’s Armies 
can have at most 3 Units and must 
have at least 1 Unit from her own 
Faction.
Movement Example A :
Anne, playing the Loyalist Militia (
 ), 
plays a Movement Card that allows her 
to move one Army up to three Areas. 
She forms an Army in New York made 
up of 2 
 , 2 
 , 1 
 , and 3 
 . She 
then moves this Army south through 
Pennsylvania to reach Baltimore.
Anne’s Army can move through 
empty Areas and Areas where her 
Side has Units, but must stop in an 
Area with opposing Units.
Movement Examples

BATTLES 
If both the British and Americans have Units in an 
area at the end of a Movement Phase, a Battle must be 
fought there.
Battle Roles: The Active Faction’s Side is always 
the Attacker, and the opposing Side is the Defender. 
Multiple Battles: If there are Battles in multiple 
Areas, the Active Faction chooses the order in which 
they are resolved.
ROLL BATTLE DICE
Defender Rolls: The Defenders have the initiative 
and roll first. 
Each Defending Faction rolls 1 Battle Die of their 
color for each of their Units in the Battle, up to the 
maximum number of Battle Dice they have. They then 
apply the results of their rolls.
Attacker Rolls: Next, each Attacking Faction 
rolls Battle Dice for their Units in the same fashion, 
and applies the results of their rolls.
Continuing Battle: If both Sides have Units 
in the Area after the Attackers roll, the Defenders 
roll again. The Defenders and Attackers continue 
alternating rolls until there are Units of only one Side 
remaining (or no Units remaining).
Rolling for Allies: Each Side rolls Battle Dice for 
their Allied Units, using the Battle Dice of that Ally’s 
color, at the same time as they roll for their Faction 
Units. Either player may roll for their Side’s Allied Units.
APPLY BATTLE DICE RESULTS
After your Side rolls Battle Dice, apply the results in 
the following order: 
1. Flee Results: For each Battle Die 
showing a Flee Icon, remove 1 Unit of 
that color from the Battle and place it on 
the Fled Units Space. 
2. Hit Results: For each Battle Die 
showing a Hit Icon, the opposing Side 
must choose 1 of their Units to remove 
from the Battle and return to its 
Reinforcements Stockpile.
3. Command Results: For each Battle 
Die showing a blank face, the player that 
rolled it may choose to make a Command 
Move with 1 Unit of that color. 
COMMAND MOVEMENT
Each Command Move allows you to move 1 Unit out 
of Battle to an Area adjacent to the Battle. 
Command Movement Rules:
•	You may Command Move into an empty Area.
•	You may Command Move into any adjacent area 
where your Side has Units, even if another Battle 
will take place there this Turn.
•	You may Command Move into an area occupied by 
independent Native American Units. They become 
your Side’s Allied Units, as if you had moved in 
during the Movement Phase (pg. 6).
•	You may not Command Move into an Area where 
there are only opposing Units. 
•	You may not Command Move across Water Areas 
(except at River Crossings).
•	If all Areas surrounding the Battle have only 
opposing Units, you may not make any Command 
Moves.
If you attack a well-defended Area by sea, you can’t 
use Command Moves to retreat the way you came.
Native Americans in Battle
Native American Units may never fight one another. 
If Native American Units are on opposite sides at the 
start of a Battle, 1 Native American Unit must flee 
from both Sides. Repeat this until only one Side has 
Native American Units, or neither Side does.
Example: An Army of 2 
  and 3 
  move into an Area 
defended by 2 
 . Before Battle Dice are rolled, 2 
  flee from each Side, leaving 2 
  to fight 2 
The 4 
  that flee are placed on the Fled Units Space. 
Battle Phase

Hint: Don’t leave a key Area empty if your opponent 
can reach it!
The British are the Defenders and 
roll first. Anne (
 ) rolls 1 
 
and her friend Will (
 ) rolls 
, resulting in 1 Hit and 1 
Command.
The Americans must decide 
which of their Units takes the 
Hit. They agree to remove one of 
George’s 
 and return it to his 
Reinforcements Stockpile. 
Will decides not to use his 
Command to move his 
 out of 
the Battle.
Next it is the Americans’ turn 
to roll. They have 1 
 and 3 
 
remaining. Betsy rolls 1 
George rolls 2 
 , since the 
Continental Army may roll a 
maximum of 2 Battle Dice. 
George rolled a Flee, so one of his 
 is sent to the Fled Units Space. 
However, he and Betsy also rolled 
two Hits, which are enough to 
remove the British Units and win 
the Battle. 
The Americans now control 
New Jersey, since there are no 
remaining British Units. They 
place a Control Flag on it.
Battle Example A :
George (
 ) moves an Army of 1 
 
 into Prince Town on his 
Turn. He and his friend Betsy (
begin a battle against the British. 
Battle Example B :
In Boston, George (
 ) moves a 
total of 3 
 to try to take 
control of Massachussetts. The 
British are again the Defenders.
Anne (
 ) rolls 1 
Will (
 ) rolls 2 
, re-
sulting in 2 Hits and 1 
Command.
George and Betsy decide 
to lose 2 
 from the 
British Hits. 
Will uses his Command 
to move 1 
 out of the 
Battle into the now-empty 
Area north of Boston. 
On the Americans’ roll, 
George (
 ) and Betsy 
 ) roll 3 Hits and 2 
Flees. 1 
 are 
sent to the Fled Units 
Space, and both remain-
ing British Units are re-
moved.
The Americans have 
successfully driven the 
British out of Boston, 
but since there is still 1 
 north of Boston, they 
have failed to take control 
of Massachussetts.
Hint: Choosing to lose a 
 instead of a 
 allows the 
Americans to roll 2 
 , instead of just 2 
Battle Examples
Defenders’ Roll
Defenders’ Roll
Attackers’ Roll
Attackers’ Roll

DISCARD PLAYED CARDS
Discard the Movement Card you played in the 
Movement Phase, as well as any Event Cards (pg. 12) 
you played on your Turn. 
Discarded cards are not used again for the rest of the 
game.
Manage your cards carefully. Once you have played a 
unique card, you will not draw it again.
DRAW NEW CARDS
After discarding, draw back up to a hand of 3 Faction 
Cards.
No Movement Cards: If at any time you have 
a hand with three Event Cards, show it to the other 
players. Then shuffle your hand back into your Draw 
Deck and draw three new cards.
If you draw no Movement Cards at the start of the game, 
you must also show your hand and draw new cards.
PLAYING EVENT CARDS
Each Faction has four unique Event Cards in its 
deck, representing pivotal events and individuals that 
changed the course of the War. 
You may play any number of Event Cards from your 
hand on your Turn. 
You may only play Event Cards when you are the 
Active Faction, including Battle Event Cards.
When to Play Events: Each Event Card’s text 
states the Turn Phase it should be played in:
•	Reinforcement Event Cards: These allow 
you to add extra Reinforcements or to distribute 
them differently. They may also bring Allied Units 
(pg. 6) into play.
•	Movement Event Cards: These allow you 
to move additional Armies or move your Armies 
further.
•	Battle Event Cards: These give special 
abilities in all Battles fought this turn.
If your Movement Card was a Truce Card, place it beside the board face-up, so all players can see 
when both of a Side’s Truce Cards have been played and the game will end (pg. 5).
Each Faction has eight Movement Cards in its Draw Deck including the Truce Card, and you 
must play one Movement Card per turn. This means every player will inevitably play their Truce 
Card within the eight Rounds allotted for the game.
Discarding Truce Cards
During the summer of 1776 a massive 
British fleet arrived in the New York 
harbor, bringing 30,000 soldiers to 
crush the rebellion.
Add 2 British Regulars 
 
and 4 Hessians 
 into 
New York City - 
even if enemy occupied.
Play in the Reinforcements Phase.
New York Bay
George Washington, the future first 
president of the United States, was 
made Commander in Chief of the 
Continental Army in 1775.
Move one more Army than the 
number depicted on this turn’s 
movement card. 
This card cannot be played 
with Warship Movement.
Play in the Movement Phase.
George Washington
Betsy Ross is credited with making 
the first American flag for George 
Washington.
All Loyalists 
 that flee in all 
battles this turn are replaced 
with Patriots , which stay in 
the battle. 
Play at the beginning of the Battle Phase.
Betsy Ross
Draw Cards Phase
Event Cards

GENERAL CLARIFICATIONS
Placing Units in Enemy Areas: If you use 
an Event Card to place Units in an Area occupied 
by opposing Units, you may not move the Units you 
placed out of the Area. You must fight a Battle there in 
the Battle Phase.
Example: The British Regulars player places 2 
 
into New York City, which is occupied by 2 
The British Units may not move into Prince Town, as they 
are immediately engaged in Battle. 
Placing Allied Units: If you use an Event Card 
to place Units that do not belong to your Faction, you 
must still have at least 1 Unit in the Area to form an 
Army there.
Example: The Continental Army player places 4 
 
in Savannah, which was previously taken by the Patriot 
player and is currently occupied by 2 
Even though there are no opposing Units, the Continental 
player does not have a 
 of their own present, so they may 
not form an Army in Savannah to move the French 
However, the Patriot player has a 
 present, so they may 
move the French 
  on their next Turn.
PATRIOT MILITIA (
Paul Revere (09): You need not control the Colony 
containing the City Area where you place 2 Patriot   .
Sons of Liberty (11): May be used on a Truce 
Card, but not a Water Movement Card.
Betsy Ross (12): For each Flee Result rolled on 
the Loyalist Battle Dice  
 , return 1 Loyalist  
to their Reinforcements Stockpile and place 1 new 
Patriot  in the Battle. Then apply any Hits rolled by 
the British players. 
CONTINENTAL ARMY (
Colonel 
Louis 
(12): 
Take 
all 
Native 
American Units (
 ) on the Fled Units Space, even 
those that were previously Allied Units on the 
opposing Side.
Montgomery (13): The Continental Army may 
move some or all of the Units in the winning Army. 
They must move at least 1 Continental Army Unit (
 ).
LOYALIST MILITIA (
John Butler (09): Roll Battle Dice for all of your 
Side’s Units and Allied Units, as if you were rolling in 
a normal round of Battle.
Example: The British attack with an Army of 1 
 , 3 
 . They roll an entire round of Battle Dice: 1 
 , and 2 
 . They score 3 Hits, 3 Flees, and 2 
Commands. The Americans remove 3 Units. No British 
Units flee or make Command Moves. 
British Loyalties (10): To redistribute Units in 
a Colony, it must meet both the following conditions:
•	Your Side controls the Colony.
•	There is at least 1 Loyalist 
 in the Colony.
If a Colony meets these conditions, you may move 
any Units in the Colony to different Areas in the same 
Colony. 
Queen’s Rangers (11): May be used on a Truce 
Card, but not a Water Movement Card.
January 1, 1776 (13): 
Example: The Americans have 3 
 in Montreal and 2 
 in the unnamed Area north of Montreal. 2 
 flee from 
Montreal and 1 
 from the Area north of Montreal.
BRITISH REGULARS (
Benedict Arnold (11): The Continental Army 
Unit (
 ) you remove returns to the Continental 
Army player’s Reinforcements Stockpile.
Joseph Brant (12): Take all  Native American Units 
 ) on the Fled Units Space, even those that were 
previously Allied Units on the opposing Side.-ch
Light Dragoons (14): Armies may move through 
Areas occupied by opposing Units or independent 
Native American Units without stopping.
The Army may only start a Battle in the Area where 
its movement ends, not in the Areas it passes through. 
Card Clarifications

1775 Introductory Scenario Setup - Recommended as a short game (~1/2 hour). 
Academy Games Copyright © 2012
Augusta
Savannah
Charles Town
Wilmington
Norfolk
York
Each Unit shown is placed in addition 
to the Units printed on the map.
INTRODUCTORY SCENARIO RULES
Use the rules from the standard game, with the following exception:
Game End Condition: The game ends at the end of Round 2, and the Side that controls the most Colonies is 
the winner. Truce Cards are removed from all Factions’ Draw Decks during setup.
INTRODUCTORY SCENARIO SETUP
Follow the standard scenario setup on page 2-3, but substitute the following for steps 4 and 5 .
5 Place Additional Units
Each Faction places 4 Units from their Reinforcements Stockpile 
on the map in the following Areas (shown on the map below):
4 Draw Faction Cards
Create Draw Decks for each Faction with 
the following cards:
01, 02, 03, 04, 09, 11
01, 02, 03, 07, 10, 12
 Continental Army (
02, 03, 04, 07, 09, 12
01, 02, 03, 04, 09, 11
Each Faction shuffles their Draw Deck and 
draws a starting hand of three cards.
•	 Savannah, GA
•	 Boston, MA 
•	 East of Baltimore, MD 
•	 West of Albany, NY
•	 Savannah, GA
•	 Norfolk, VA 
•	 Dover, DE 
•	 North of Portsmouth, NH
 Continental Army (
•	 Augusta, GA
•	 North of Wilmington, NC 
•	 York, VA 
•	 West of Boston, MA
•	 Augusta, GA
•	 Trenton, NJ (x2) 
•	 Newport, RI
Introductory Scenario

a
ton
In late 1775, the Americans decided to invade Quebec to capture the important British supply ports and fortresses of Montreal and Quebec. 
Brigadier General Richard Montgomery captured Montreal by November 13th. He could now rendezvous with Colonel Benedict Arnold on 
the outskirts of Quebec City as planned. In the mean time, British General Guy Carleton was hastily gathering militia and British Regulars 
for the defense of the city. The fate of the northern colonies of America would depend on the outcome of this battle...
This scenario is recommended as a 2-player game for experienced players.
SIEGE OF QUEBEC SCENARIO RULES
In this Scenario, players score victory points for controlling 
City Areas, rather than entire Colonies. Controlling Quebec 
City is worth 2 points.
Game End Condition: The game ends at the end of the 
Round if both Factions on one Side have played their Truce 
Cards. Unlike the standard scenario, players should check for 
game end every Round.
Win Condition: The winner is the player with more 
Control Flags on City Areas when the game ends. 
Controlling a City Area: All City Areas start under 
the control of the British or Americans. Quebec City has 2 
British Control Flags to indicate it is worth 2 points.
If a Side leaves or is forced to retreat from a City Area it 
controls, the Side loses control of the City Area. 
In order to place a new Control Flag, the Active Faction 
must have Units in the City Area at the start of its turn. Each 
Faction checks for control of City Areas at the start of its Turn.
It is possible to win a Battle in a City and remove an opposing 
Control Flag on your Turn, but fail to take control of the City 
before the game ends. In this case neither Side scores the City.
Reinforcements Phase: Each Faction places 3 Units 
from their Reinforcements Stockpile, plus their Fled Units, 
according to the following rules:
•	 Loyalist Miltia (
 ): You may place Units in any City 
Areas the British Side controls.
•	 British Regulars (
 ): You may may place Units in any 
City Areas your Side controls that adjoins the Atlantic 
Ocean (but not the St. Lawrence Seaway). 
•	 Patriot Miltia (
 ): You may place Units in any City 
Areas the American Side controls.
•	 Continental Army (
 ): You may place Units in any 
Area in Massachussetts that is not enemy-occupied. It 
need not be a City Area.
SIEGE OF QUEBEC SCENARIO SETUP
Place Starting Units: Populate Colony Areas north of 
New Jersey and Pennsylvania using the printed Unit icons on 
the map, with the exception of Ft. Ticonderoga and the two 
southern Areas in Quebec. Instead of placing printed Units in 
those Areas, place 3 Patriots  and 1 Continental Army  on 
each of the sourthern Areas in Quebec and 1 Patriot  and 1 
Continental Army  in Ft. Ticonderoga.
Place Control Flags: Place a Control Flag on every 
City each Side controls. The British begin with 6 Control 
Flags 
 (2 on Quebec City) and the Americans begin with 7 
Control Flags 
Create Draw Decks: Each Faction creates their Draw 
Deck from all of their Faction Cards marked with a fleur-de-
lis icon 
 in the top right corner, then draws three cards.
Place Additional Units: Instead of placing additional 
4 Units each, the British place 6 Loyalists  and 6 Regulars 
and the Americans place 3 Patriots  and 3 Continental 
 . As in the standard game, draw Turn Cubes to 
determine which Side places first.
Place Round Pawn: Place the Round Pawn on the “III” 
space on the Round Track.
Siege of Quebec Scenario

Seven Years War and 
British Taxation
n 1607, the first permanent English settlement was 
established at Fort James (near York), Virginia. By 
1760, the population in the English colonies had 
grown to over 1.5 million, stretching from Maine in 
the north to Georgia in the south. These colonists were 
considered English citizens, subject to the rule of the 
Crown. 
The Seven Years War, during which Britain fought 
France and Spain for trade and colonial control, ended 
in 1763. This was a true world war, encompassing 
America, Europe and India. The North American 
theater of this war became known as the “French and 
Indian War,” and mainly took place in what is now 
known as Canada. 
The Seven Years War drove Britain into heavy debt, 
requiring half of the tax income from British subjects to 
pay just the massive interest alone. This debt payment 
forced the British Parliament to turn away from 
territorial control and focus on matters of finance. 
The British felt that the American colonists 
should share in the burden of paying 
for this crippling war, so several acts 
were passed by the British to generate 
additional tax revenue in the American 
colonies. The Stamp Act, for example, 
required the colonists to purchase 
government stamps for all printed 
legal documents, newspapers, licenses, 
and even playing cards. The Stamp Act, 
the Currency Act, and the Sugar Act 
were all passed by a British Parliament 
that had no colonial representation. 
Colonial outrage grew over these 
new taxes, and merchants stopped importing British 
goods in protest. In Boston, a group of Patriots orga-
nized themselves as the Sons of Liberty, and in August 
1765 took to rioting in the streets. 
The violent encounters came to a head on March 5, 
1770, when a crowd gathered outside of customs office 
in Boston. The mob began throwing snowballs and 
rocks at British soldiers on guard duty. The troops were 
ordered to fix bayonets and push the crowd back. Then 
either a soldier slipped and fell discharging his musket, 
or antagonists in the crowd fired a shot. Believing that 
the order to fire had been given, the remaining soldiers 
fired into the crowd, killing five civilians and wounding 
six. The event became known as the Boston Massacre. 
Between 1770 and 
1773, the relationship 
between the colonies 
and Britain remained 
relatively calm, but 
this was to be the calm 
before the storm. 
England’s largest 
corporation, the East India Company, was on the verge 
of bankruptcy. Colonists were purchasing cheaper 
Dutch tea, leaving the warehouses of the East India 
Company full of unsold tea. Parliament’s solution to 
saving the East India Company was to impose the Tea 
Act of 1773, giving the East India Company a monopoly 
on tea sales in the colonies, as well as exempting the 
Company from trade duties. 
In port cities across the colonies, the Sons of Liberty 
threatened merchants of the East India 
Company with violence and convinced 
them to return to England with their 
cargoes. On December 16, 1773, the 
Sons of Liberty in Boston took action. 
A group of men disguised as Indians 
boarded East India Company ships 
and dumped several tons of tea into the 
harbor. British and Americans alike were 
shocked at the protest, which was later 
called “The Boston Tea Party.” 
The destruction of British property 
and insult to British authority enraged 
British Parliament. In the spring of 1774, Parliament 
passed the Coercive Acts, a series of repressive measures 
taken against the colonies. 
Matters were approaching a crisis. Britain had 
adopted harsh policies in response to the Boston 
Tea Party. Colonies in New England were creating 
Historical Overview

most importantly, took command of the Continental 
Army. George Washington was asked to lead it. 
More fighting broke out in 1775, when General 
Washington took control of Boston. In the fall, 
Continental Army forces under the command of Richard 
Montgomery and Benedict Arnold began to advance 
into the province of Quebec. By November, they had 
taken Montreal and prepared to siege Quebec City. 
The British general Guy Carleton snuck past the 
American attackers and prepared the city’s defences be-
fore the Americans arrived. Knowing their militiamen’s 
enlistment expired on January 1, 1776, the Americans 
led an attack on Quebec City in a blinding snow storm 
on December 30. The attack failed, and the Americans 
gave up the siege in early 1776. 
The idea of independence rather than reconciliation 
with Britain was rising. In the spring of 1776, Thomas 
Jefferson began a draft of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, and presented the document to Congress on 
June 28. Congress approved the draft, and on July 4, 
1776 the Declaration of Independence was ratified. 
By 1776, Thomas Gage had been replaced by William 
Howe as commander in chief of the British forces. 
Washington moved his troops to New York in the 
spring of 1776 in an effort to blockade Howe. During 
the summer, a massive British Fleet arrived in the New 
York harbor, bringing 30,000 German 
Hessian mercenary soldiers to crush 
the rebellion. In August, British 
troops landed on Long Island and 
fought American forces at the Battle of 
Brooklyn Heights, driving them back to 
Manhattan Island. The British continued 
to push back the Continental Army, and 
Washington was forced to retreat across 
New Jersey into Pennsylvania. 
Committees of Safety, tasked with stockpiling arms and 
organizing militia. Tensions between colonists and the 
Crown grew, and it became dangerous to express favor 
for Britain. King George III declared the colonies of 
New England to be in a state of rebellion, threatening 
that “blows must decide whether they are to be subject 
to this Country or independent.” 
The Revolution Begins
O
n the night of April 18, 1775, General Thomas 
Gage organized 700 British troops for a march 
on the towns of Lexington and Concord, 
Massachusetts. Gage was ordered to seize stockpiled 
arms and arrest 
Samuel Adams and 
John Hancock. 
G age hop e d 
to surprise the 
Americans, but 
throughout the 
night riders spread 
the warning across 
the countryside. It was on this night that Paul Revere set 
out on his famous “Midnight Ride,” warning colonists of 
the approaching British troops. The warnings allowed 
both Samuel Adams and John Hancock time to escape. 
The British troops routed an armed group of 
militiamen in Lexington, Massachusetts. They then 
proceeded on to Concord, where they were confronted 
and defeated by over 500 militiamen. As the British 
withdrew to Boston, they were attacked repeatedly by 
American militia. 273 British soldiers were killed or 
wounded by the time the column reached safety. 
The news of the Battle of Lexington and Concord 
spread quickly across the colonies and signaled the 
start of the American Revolutionary War.
With the rebellion underway, 
leadership became a concern in the 
Colonies. The Continental Congress 
convened for the second time on 
May 10, 1775, and in effect became 
a national government. Congress 
organized the war effort by printing 
currency for expenses, entered into 
diplomatic relations with Native 
Americans, created a navy, and, 

The possibility of an American victory seemed 
bleak, and Washington realized how dangerously 
close to defeat the Continental Army was. He had to 
take action. So on the night of December 25, 1776, 
Washington led his forces across the Delaware River 
and launched a surprise attack against a Hessian 
outpost in Trenton, New Jersey. Only 3 Americans 
were killed, while Hessian provisions were plundered 
and over 1000 prisoners were taken — a tremendous 
morale boost for the American rebels. 
The War intensified in 1777. The British mounted 
increased efforts to end the Rebellion. Another British 
contingent was formed in Canada, commanded by 
General John Burgoyne. In an attempt to overwhelm 
the American forces, the 
British planned to send 
Burgoyne’s army down 
the Hudson River from 
Canada to rendezvous 
with Howe in New York 
City, segregate New 
England and end the 
Rebellion there. Five 
thousand British, three thousand Hessians, and a 
Native American force under Joseph Brant captured 
Fort Ticonderoga on July 5, 1777. 
In October, however, Burgoyne’s army clashed 
with an American force of Continental Army and 
Patriot Militia units south of Saratoga, New York. 
Greatly outnumbered and unable to break through 
the American line, Burgoyne was forced to surrender 
his army on October 
17, 1777.
Ignoring the plan 
to rendezvous with 
B u rg oy n e , Howe 
sailed for Philadelphia 
in July 1777. Howe 
planned to capture the 
city and defeat General Washington. The British met 
Washington’s army at Brandywine Creek, near the border 
between Pennsylvania and Delaware. Washington was 
outflanked by Howe and suffered a severe defeat. 
Howe captured Philadelphia, giving the British 
control of the city for the winter. The Continental Army 
established a winter camp at Valley Forge, now famous 
for the terrible conditions suffered by the American 
troops wintering there. 
America Allies with 
France
S
ince 1776, American diplomats, including 
Benjamin Franklin, had been in Paris negotiating 
an alliance. The American victory at Saratoga, 
New York, in October 1777 convinced France that the 
United States had a viable future. 
Eager to see an 
American victory over 
their long-time enemy 
Britain, French officials 
moved quickly to 
support the American 
cause. On February 6, 
1778, France struck 
a commercial treaty 
and a military alliance with the United States. French 
assistance in the American Revolution proved to play a 
valuable role in the success of American Independence. 
Some historians believe that without French support 
in the form men and money, the American Revolution 
would have failed. 
The entrance of France forced Britain to change 
its war strategy. The British now aimed at controlling 
the southern regions of the American colonies, and in 
November 1778, British troops took control of Georgia. 
In the fall of 1779, American and French troops laid 
siege to Savannah, Georgia. The British held them off, 
forcing the Americans and French to retreat in defeat. 
In December 1779, the British sailed from New York 
to South Carolina, encircled the city of Charles Town, 
and forced the Americans to surrender on May 12, 
1780. The British were now poised to sweep through the 
South, and many Patriots believed that the American 
Revolution was over.
Conflict continued in 
the South through the fall 
of 1780 and the winter of 
1781. By the summer of 
1781, British dominance 
i n t h e S o u t h h a d 
diminished. In an attempt 
to cut off American supply 
lines, the British planned 
to take control of Virginia 
and moved troops to 

occupy York Town. The Continental Army, joined by 
French troops, surrounded York Town and laid siege to 
the city. The British army of 6,000 was outnumbered by 
8,800 Americans and 7,800 French soldiers, and were 
cut off from retreat by sea thanks to the French Fleet’s 
victory over the British Navy. With nowhere to go, 
and reinforcements too far away, the British army was 
forced to surrender on October 19, 1781. 
The British surrender at York Town marked the end 
of all major conflict in the American Revolution. King 
George III wanted to maintain the war effort, fearing 
that defeat threatened British rule elsewhere in the 
empire, but Parliament voted to end the war, believing 
that enough money and men had been lost. 
The American Revolutionary War officially 
ended on September 3, 1783, with the signing of 
the Treaty of Paris. The 
treaty granted the United 
States of America vast 
regions of western lands 
and declared that Great 
B r it a i n re c o g n i z e d 
the United States as 
“free, sovereign and 
independent.” The last 
of the British forces 
departed from New York 
in December of 1783. 
Native Americans
t the early onset of the war, Native Americans 
sought to remain neutral; however, the 
approximately 200,000 Native Americans living 
east of the Mississippi River were a valuable fighting 
force that both the American and British coveted. 
Forced to choose, many Native Americans sided with 
the British, believing a British victory would most likely 
safeguard their land claims. Native American tribes, 
including those of the Cherokees, began raiding the 
southern frontier in 1776. Southern colonists in turn 
devastated Cherokee settlements, forcing the chiefs to 
seek peace. The younger members of the tribes formed 
a militant group in northern Georgia and continued 
to fight. 
Many Native American tribes were caught between 
the British and Americans. The Iroquois Confederation, 
under the leadership 
of Jos eph Brant, 
became divided, which 
led to many Native 
Americans migrating 
to Canada. In the 
Treaty of Paris in 1783, 
Britain surrendered the territory it controlled east of 
the Mississippi River, betraying the Native Americans 
living there. The Native Americans were not part of 
the negotiations in Paris, nor did they surrender to the 
Americans, but their land was now subject to United 
States claim. 
The American Revolutionary War was a disaster for 
the Native Americans, who now faced a flood of white 
settlers into their land. 
United Empire Loyalists 
T
he American Revolution was more than just a 
war of independence. It caused civil division, 
splitting families and setting neighbor against 
neighbor. 
An estimated half a million colonists (20 percent of 
the population) sided with Britain during the American 
Revolutionary War. The Loyalists included farmers, 
merchants, and settlers throughout the colonies. The 
Declaration of Independence made these citizens 
enemies to the Revolution. Refusing to swear allegiance 
to the American nation was a crime, as was taking up 
arms for Britain. 
E v e n t h o u g h t h e 
punishment was harsh, 
up to 19,000 Loyalists 
fought with the British. 
Many other Loyalists were 
prosecuted by colonial 
state legislatures and 
became refugees, losing 
their homes to raids 
and seizure by patriotic 
colonials. 
The United Empire Loyalists became an important 
part of Canadian history. As many as 70,000 Loyalists 
fled to Nova Scotia and Upper Canada, bringing 
together loyal subjects of Britain and forming the 
foundation for what would become Canada.

1775 - Rebellion AYG 5375
Copyright © 2018 Academy Games, Inc.
Fremont, Ohio USA 419-307-6531
www.AcademyGames.com
Version 22 Rules
AYG 5375
•	 Game Map
•	 2 Reference Sheets
•	 1 Round Pawn
•	 16 Control Flags
•	 Draw Bag
•	 4 Turn Markers
•	 205 Unit Cubes
•	 45  Yellow
•	 35  Red 
•	 45  White
•	 40  Blue
•	 12  Orange
•	 10  Purple
•	 18  Green
•	 54 Faction Cards
•	 13 Loyalist Militia
•	 15 British Regulars
•	 12 Patriot Militia
•	 14 Continental Army 
•	 16 Battle Dice
•	 3 
 Yellow
 Red
•	 3 
 White
 Blue
 Orange
 Purple
 Green
Components List
Game Design: 
Beau Beckett and Jeph Stahl
Project Managers: 
Gunter Eickert and Uwe Eickert
Art: 
Game Art: Jarek Nocoń
Box Art: Stephen Paschal
Historical Overview: 
Brandon Good
Rules Layout: 
Jeff Fraser
Rules Reveiw: 
William Eastwood, Russell Marsh, Jim Toland, Calvin Arnt, 
Brian Bennett, Josh Christensen, Kirsten Eickert, Bruce 
Graumlich, Dean Halley, Thomas Knight, Jesse LeBreton, 
Brett Myers, James Palmer, Steve Robinson, Michael Vinarcik
Design Credits
Defender..............................
Draw Deck..........................
Event Cards.........................
Faction.................................
Faction Cards......................
Flee Result...........................
Fled Units............................
Fled Units Space.................
French Regulars..................
Game End...........................
Hessian Mercenaries..........
Hit Result............................
Native Americans...............
Movement Cards................
Reinforcements..................
Reinforcements Stockpile...
Active Factio n.....................
Allied Units.........................
Area......................................
Army....................................
Atlantic Ocean....................
Attacker...............................
Battle....................................
Battle Dice...........................
Boat Movement..................
Body of Water.....................
.City Area.............................
Colony.................................
Command Result...............
Command Move................
Control................................
Control Flag.......................
pg. 2, 5
pg. 3
pg. 12
pg. 2, 12
pg. 7
pg. 3
pg. 6, 10
pg. 7
pg. 2, 7
River Crossing....................
Round..................................
Round Track.......................
Side.......................................
St L.awrence Seaway...........
Truce Cards.........................
Turn.....................................
Turn Cubes..........................
Turn Phases.........................
Turn Track...........................
Units.....................................
Win Condition...................
Warship Cards....................
Water Movement Cards....
pg. 3, 5
pg. 5, 8, 12
pg. 3, 5
Complete the Birth of America Colonial Trilogy with
1754: Conquest and 1812: The Invasion of Canada
Index