The year is 1812. War is raging across Europe and Russia as Napoleon, emperor of France, seeks to 
dominate Europe through conquest. However, a coalition of France’s enemies, led by Great Britain, 
desperately resists his ambitions. Great Britain, in dire need of resources, is capturing American ships that are supplying 
France, confiscating their cargoes and impressing some of their sailors to serve in its Royal Navy.
The young United States objects. Eager to defend its sovereign rights and to strengthen its position in North America, the United 
States declares war on Britain on June 18, 1812. Taking advantage of the British army’s struggles against Napoleon in Europe, 
American forces invade Canada on July 12, 1812. The goal is to drive the British from their last remaining colony on North 
American soil. Surprised, Britain reels from the attack and now has to face another enemy threat on another continent.
In 1812 - The Invasion of Canada, players take on the roles of the major factions that participated in the War of 1812. On the 
British side these are represented by the British Regulars (Redcoats), Canadian Militia and Native Americans; the American 
Regular Army and American Militia comprise the American side. Players for each side will strategize together in order to plan 
and conduct their campaigns. Each side will attempt to capture Objective cities and forts on the map. When a truce is called, 
the side that controls the most enemy Objectives wins.
1812 - The Invasion of Canada
Game Components
1 Map - Divided into British (red) and American (blue) 
Homeland Areas, some with starred Objectives.
 160 Units - 25 red British Regulars, 35 yellow 
Canadian Militia, 25 green Native American, 30 
blue American Regulars, 45 white American Militia. 
13 Battle Dice - 2 red British Regulars, 
3 yellow Canadian Militia, 3 green Native American, 
2 blue American Regulars, 3 white American Militia. 
5 Turn Order Markers - One of each color, 
plus 1 Silk Draw Bag (not shown). 
Once Napoleon was defeated in Europe, the 
British could focus their attention on the war 
in North America and sent fresh troops and 
supplies.
Napoleon Defeated
Add 2 British Regular units
to Montreal, even if it is
occupied by the enemy.
#01
60 Cards - 12 red British, 12 yellow Canadian Militia, 
12 green Native American, 12 blue American Regulars, 
12 white American Militia. 
20 Control Markers - 
Double sided markers. 
1 Round Marker 
Pawn 

Game Play
1.0 Choose a Faction - Each player chooses a faction to play 
and takes the corresponding units, Battle Dice and cards of 
that specific faction’s color. 
Each faction is color coded as follows: 
	
American Regulars - blue 	
British Regulars - red 
American Militia - white	
Canadian Militia - yellow 
	
	
	
	
Native Americans - green 
When playing with fewer than five people, one or more 
players will control multiple factions on one side of the 
conflict. All factions must be played. 
1.1 Map Setup - Place the map in the center of the table with 
American side players on the south edge and British side 
players on the north. 
Homeland Areas - The map 
is divided into red and blue 
areas. Blue denotes American 
Homeland Areas and red 
denotes British Homeland 
Areas.
Objectives are starred cities or 
forts. The side controlling the 
most enemy Objectives at the 
end of the game wins. 
Scenarios - This game contains three scenarios. An 1812 
Introductory Scenario, the 1812 Full Campaign Scenario, 
and an 1813 Campaign Scenario. Each scenario’s starting unit 
placements are described in its individual scenario setup section 
on pages 7 and 8. 
1.2 Starting Units for the 1812 Scenarios - Some areas on the 
map have colored squares marked on them that represent the 
starting unit placements for the 1812 Introductory and 1812 
Full Campaign Scenarios. Populate the map areas with the 
corresponding colored units. (The starting units setup for the 
1813 Campaign Scenario is listed on page 8.) 
Ex: Fort Niagara gets 2 white units and 2 blue units. 
1.3 Place Additional Units - The 1812 Scenarios require the 
players to place additional units. The number of units and 
where they are placed are listed in the scenario setup sections 
on page 7. 
1.4 Unit Force Pools - Remaining units that were not placed 
on the map during the game setup are kept near each faction 
player. These units will be placed on the map during future 
rounds as Enlistments (3.1) or as called for by Special Cards. 
1.5 Draw Cards - Each scenario specifies which cards make 
up a player’s draw deck at the beginning of the game. Players 
shuffle their decks and then each draws a hand of three cards 
from his deck. 
If at any time a player holds only Special Cards, indicated by 
the word “Special” at the top of a card, he shows the cards, 
reshuffles them into his draw deck and draws three new cards. 
Players from the same side may show each other their cards 
in order to plan their future actions.
1.6 Place Round Marker - Place the Round Marker Pawn on 
space 1 of the round track located on the bottom left side of 
the map. 
1.7 The Draw Bag - Place all Turn Order Markers in the 
Draw Bag. If playing the Full 1812 Campaign, draw the blue 
American Regulars Turn Order Marker and place it on the 1st 
Turn space. 
Game Setup
2.0 Rounds and Turns - The game is played over a variable 
number of rounds. During each round, all five factions will 
take a turn to mobilize units using movement cards.
The turn order is determined randomly. At the beginning of 
each round, all five Turn Order Markers are placed into the 
Draw Bag. A Turn Order Marker is blindly drawn from the 
bag and is placed on the ‘1st Turn’ space of the turn track. 
The color drawn denotes which faction’s turn it is. The faction 
completes its turn before the next Turn Order Marker is 
drawn from the bag. 
Note: The American Regulars always take the first turn of 
Round I in the Full 1812 Campaign. 
2.1 Active Player - The person that controls the faction 
whose turn it is. 
Once all the Turn Order Markers have been drawn and all the 
factions have had their turn, the round ends. All Turn Order 
Markers are returned to the Draw Bag and the Round Marker 
Pawn is advanced to the next round space. The new round 
begins by drawing a new Turn Order Marker from the Draw 
Bag. 
2.2 Game End Check - At the end of round 3 and at the end 
of each subsequent round, the end of game condition must be 
checked (4.0). 
3.0 Turn Order - A drawn Turn Order Marker designates 
which faction takes its turn next. The active player can then 
perform the following actions in order: 
• Place Enlistments (3.1) & Fled Units in Muster Areas (3.1.2)
• Play a Movement Card and up to Two Special Cards (3.2) 
• Resolve Battles (3.3)
• Draw New Cards (3.4)
3.1 Place Enlistments - Each faction has one or two Muster 
Areas on the map that show Enlistment cube graphics of their 
color. 
• British Regulars - Montreal (3 red)
• Canadian Militia - Montreal (1 yellow), York (1 yellow)
• Native American - Six Nations (1 green) + 1 extra green
• American Regulars - Pittsburgh (2 blue), Albany (3 blue) 
• American Militia - Pittsburgh (2 white), Albany (1 white)

Ex: Shown is the Albany 
area which is a Muster Area 
for American Militia and 
American Regular units. 
At the beginning of each 
of their turns, the active 
player pulls Enlistment 
Units from their Unit Force 
Pool and places them in their Muster Area(s). The number of 
Enlistment Units placed correspond to the number pictured 
below the cube graphic of their color. 
Each faction has a limited supply of units in its Unit Force 
Pool. If a faction’s Unit Force Pool has no units remaining, 
then no Enlistments can be placed that turn.
3.1.1 Native American Enlistments - In 
addition to the 1 green unit placed on the Six 
Nations Muster Area, the Native American 
player may place an additional green unit in 
any other area already containing a Native 
American unit. This additional unit can be 
placed in an American or British homeland 
area and it can be placed even if the Native 
American Muster Area is occupied by enemy 
units.
3.1.2 Place Fled Units - In addition to placing Enlistments, 
any of the active player’s units located in the Fled Unit Space 
(3.3.2) re-enter play by being placed in the active player’s 
Muster Area(s). 
Ex: It is the Canadian Militia’s turn. The active player 
pulls yellow Enlistment units from the Unit Force Pool and 
places one in Montreal and another in York. 
There are 7 yellow units in the Fled Units Space which the 
active player places in any quantity in Montreal and/or York.
If enemy units occupy a Muster Area, no units may be placed 
on that area. This could result in a turn without Enlistments 
or Fled Units being placed on the map. If this is the case, the 
active player loses that turn’s Enlistments and their Fled Units 
stay on the Fled Units Space. 
The active player now plays a Movement Card. 
3.2 Play a Movement Card and Up to Two Special Cards 
Each faction has a custom deck of twelve cards, eight of which 
are Movement Cards and four that are Special Cards (3.2.7). 
The active player must play one Movement Card on his turn. 
He may also play up to two Special Cards. Units may be 
moved by land or water, depending on what the Movement 
Card allows. No more than one Movement Card may be 
played by the active player during his turn. 
Remove from the game all played cards, except for Truce 
Movement Cards (3.2.3).
3.2.1 Land Movement Cards allow units to move from one 
land area to the next. Units are moved by the active player as 
permitted by the Movement Card played and as modified by 
any Special Card played.
3.2.2 Armies are groups of units in the same area. An army 
can be made up of units from different allied factions.
Ex: A British army in an area could be comprised of 3 red 
British Regulars units, 5 yellow Canadian Militia units, and 3 
green Native American units. 
The number of soldier figures on a movement card represents 
the number of armies that may be moved, followed by how 
many areas each of these armies may move. 
Any army, including any of its units, may 
not be moved twice in a turn. 
Ex: For the movement card shown, the 
American Regulars player may move up to 
four different armies two areas each. None 
of these armies or any of their units may be 
moved twice. (Some Special Cards grant an 
army added movement range.) 
In order to move an army, at least 1 unit in the army must 
belong to the active player. The active player can then move 
all units in the army including other allied units. 
Ex: The American Regulars player could move an army 
comprised of 1 American Regulars unit and 6 American 
Militia units. 
Armies are moved from area to area, across area boundaries. 
An army must stop if it enters an area occupied by enemy 
units. Armies cannot drop off or pick up units in the midst of 
movement. An army may divide into multiple armies before 
moving. This allows the player to move an army while leaving 
another army behind. If the Movement Card allows multiple 
army movements, then the player may also move the other 
army to a different area. Multiple armies may move to the 
same area creating one large army.
Ex: There are 4 American Regulars and 5 American 
Militia units in Fort Niagara. It is the American Regulars’ 
turn and the active player plays the movement card pictured 
above. They first move 2 Regulars and 2 Militia into Fort 
George for one army move. Then they move 2 Regulars and 2 
Militia into Queenston for a second army move. 1 Militia unit 
has not been moved and is left in Fort Niagara. The active 
player still has two army moves left. 
The active player does not need to move the full amount 
of armies indicated on the movement card, nor use all the 
allowed movement per army.
A minor river is shown as a black line and can be crossed 
without a boat in the same manner as any map area border. 
3.2.3 Truce Cards - Each faction has one Truce Card. Truce 
Cards are a type of Movement Card and are played as such. 
After having been played, they are lined up along the western 
edge of the map instead of being discarded. This is so that 
players can track how many Truce Cards have been played. 
When the Truce Cards have been played by all factions of an 
alliance, at the end of the round the game ends (4.0).
3.2.4 Water Movement - To cross a large body of water, a 
Warship, Fishing Boat or Canoe Movement 
card must be played. Lakes and large rivers 
that are shown on the map as an aqua 
marine color are considered Large Bodies 
of Water. A large body of water ends where 
rivers are “greyed out”. 
Armies that have a Water Movement card 
may move from a land area adjoining a 
large body of water to any other land area 
#08
#06
Muster Area 
Unit set up at start 
of the 1812 Campaign 
Objective

adjoining the same large body of water, even if it is occupied 
by the enemy. 
Ex: A British army in Prescott could move across Lake 
Ontario to Fort Niagara. This army could not move to 
Buffalo, which borders Lake Erie, because the two lakes are 
separated by a greyed out river. 
3.2.5 Canoe and Fishing Boat Army Size Limits - Some 
water movement cards limit the size of the armies that can 
be moved. The number of cubes and their colors denote the 
maximum units that may be moved per army. 
Canoes allow 5 Native American units, 
from up to 5 different areas on the same 
body of water, to move to one single area on 
the same body of water. 
Fishing Boats allow two armies, of up to 3 
units each and from two 
different areas, to move 
to one single area on the 
same body of water. 
Ex: The American 
Militia Fishing Boat card allows two armies 
to be moved. Each army may contain up to 
3 units and be composed of white and blue 
units, one of which must be white. 
3.2.6 Out of Bounds Areas - Movement into the beige 
boundary territory is forbidden. Islands appearing in large 
bodies of water are not considered areas.
3.2.7 Special Cards - Each faction has 
unique Special Cards in its deck, indicated 
by the word “Special” at the top. These 
Special Cards modify movement or combat 
rules (5.0). When the active player plays his 
movement Card, he may also play up to all of 
the Special Cards in his hand. 
After the Active Player has finished with all 
movement for the turn, battles are resolved. 
3.2.8 Objectives - These are important cities or forts and are 
depicted with a star next to the city or fort name. 
When a side controls an enemy Objective, control is tracked 
by placing a Control Marker on the area with the controlling 
side’s flag symbol face up. 
A side controls an enemy Objective if its units occupy the 
area at the end of a turn. If a controlling side’s units leave 
or are forced out of an enemy Objective Area, its Control 
Marker is removed and control reverts back to the homeland 
owners.
Ex: British forces occupy Buffalo at the end of the 
Canadian Militia’s turn. A British Control Marker is placed in 
this area. 
The side that controls the most enemy Objectives at game end 
wins (4.0). This is easily determined by counting the number 
of Control Markers for each side on the map. 
The Fort Erie and Queenston area has two Objectives in it. 
If the Americans control this area, two American Control 
Markers are placed on it. 
3.3 Battles 
A battle occurs when opposing armies occupy the same area.
If there are multiple battles, the Active Player chooses the 
order in which the battles are resolved. Any Special Cards 
played, that may influence a battle, must be assigned prior to 
battle resolution.
The side in whose Homeland Area (1.1) the battle takes place 
has the initiative and rolls first. In red areas the British players 
have the initiative and in blue areas the American players 
have the initiative, regardless of which army is the attacker or 
defender. 
First the players of the side with initiative simultaneously roll 
their Battle Dice and apply the results. If units of both sides 
remain after the results are resolved, the other side’s players 
simultaneously roll their Battle Dice and apply the results. 
The battle continues, alternating back and forth, until only 
one side remains in the area. 
Each faction’s controlling player will roll his Battle Dice and 
make decisions for his own units. The player rolls an amount 
of dice corresponding to the number of his units present in 
the battle. The maximum number of dice that may be rolled 
by the American Regulars and British Regulars players is two, 
while for the American Militia, Canadian Militia and Native 
American players the maximum is three.
Battle Dice Results - Each faction’s Battle Dice have a unique 
combination of Hit, Flee and Blank Command Decision faces. 
3.3.1 Hit - A Hit result causes an opponent’s 
unit to be removed from the map and placed 
in its Unit Force Pool. The opponents decide 
among themselves which unit to remove, if 
there is more than one faction to choose from.
3.3.2 Flee - A Flee result causes a faction’s own 
unit of the colored die rolled to flee the battle. 
These units are placed in the Fled Units Space 
on the map. These Fled Units are returned 
to the owning faction’s Muster Area(s) at the 
beginning of that faction’s next turn (3.1.2).
3.3.3 Command Decision - When a blank 
die face is rolled, the controlling player may 
decide to move one of his own units out of 
the current battle. This unit can move to any 
adjacent Friendly Area.
Friendly Areas are any of your side’s Homeland Areas that 
are empty or contain allied units; or any enemy Homeland 
Areas that are occupied by allied units. Your side’s Homeland 
Many Canadians supported the idea of 
a republican democracy over the British 
Monarchy and fought with the Americans.
Turncoat
Replace 1 Canadian
Militia unit with 1
American Militia unit
in one battle.

Areas that are solely occupied by enemy units are not 
considered to be friendly. An area that contains both friendly 
and enemy units (an upcoming battle) is considered friendly 
and may be moved into.
The order in which Command Decisions are carried out is 
determined by the involved allied players. 
If there are no friendly areas adjacent to a battle, then 
movement out of the battle is not an option. 
An army that moved into a battle by water may not move out 
by water with a Command Decision.
3.3.4 Native American Command Decision - Native 
American units have an advantage and may use a Command 
Decision to move into unoccupied enemy Homeland Areas, 
including unoccupied American Objective Areas.
Turn Example: The British players captured the area of 
Ogdensburg during a previous round and, since it was their 
opponent’s Homeland Objective Area, placed their Control 
Marker on it. The American Militia Marker is pulled from 
the Draw Bag. The American Militia player, wanting to retake 
Ogdensburg, plays a movement card that 
allows him to move two armies up to three 
areas each. The American army in Area #1 
starts out with 5 white units and 4 blue units. 
All units but one blue unit, move one area 
north into Ogdensburg. The American Militia 
player then moves another army on the western 
edge of the map. Movement is completed and a 
battle occurs in Ogdensburg. 
The battle occurs in an American Homeland Area (1.1), 
so the American players have initiative and roll first. The 
American Militia player rolls 3 white dice resulting in 1 
Hit, 1 Flee and 1 Command Decision. American Regulars 
player rolls 2 blue dice resulting in 1 Hit and 1 Command 
Decision. The British side took 2 hits and its players as a 
group must decide which 2 units to remove from the map. 
They choose to remove 2 red units so that they can roll the 
maximum number of Battle Dice during their next action. 
The American Militia rolled a Flee result and so must remove 
a white unit and place it in the Fled Units Space (3.3.2). Both 
American players rolled a Command Decision and each 
decides not to move a unit out of the battle area. 
Note: Either American player could have moved a unit 
into any adjacent friendly area. This includes Area #2, which 
would then make the area inaccessible to any future retreating 
Native American units (3.3.4). 
Now the British players roll. There are two red units, 
three yellow units and one green unit left. They roll the 
following results: 
The American players take 3 hits and decide to take 
off one blue and two white units. Next a yellow Canadian 
Militia is removed and placed in the Fled Unit Space. The 
Native American and British Regulars each have one Command 
Decision. The Native American unit could move into Area #2. 
Then the British Regulars unit could also move into Area #2. 
Both players decide to stay in the battle, which continues. 
The Americans roll:
The British players 
lose 3 units and decide 
to keep both red 
British Regulars, since 
they have the best odds of scoring hits. The white American 
Militia rolled a Command Decision and decides to stay in the 
battle.
The British roll: 
The American players choose to 
remove a white unit. Then the British 
player decides to withdraw one of his 
units to Cornwall as his Command Decision result. 
The British lose the last unit on the American player’s 
next attack. The battle is won by the Americans and the 
British Control Marker is removed. 
3.4 Draw Cards 
At the end of his turn, the active player draws his hand back 
up to 3 cards. If there are not enough cards left in the draw 
deck, play with what remains. 
If a player draws and only has 3 Special Cards in his hand 
and no Movement Cards, the player must show his cards, 
reshuffle them back into his draw deck and draw 3 new cards. 
A player must always have one movement card in his hand 
after drawing. 
American Army 
started in Area #1.
Area #2
#02
Area #1
Area #2

The War Hawks in the 12th Congress were 
Democratic-Republicans who advocated 
waging war against the United Kingdom in 
the War of 1812.
War Hawks
You may move up to double the 
number of armies depicted on this 
turn’s movement card. This card 
may not be played with a Warship 
movement card.
Future U.S. president William Harrison led an 
army north to battle the Shawnee and their 
new British allies. He won victories in Indiana 
and Ohio and recaptured Detroit before 
invading Canada in September 1813.
William Harrison
An army in one area that won 
a battle may move to any 
friendly or enemy adjacent area. 
This may result in another battle.
In 1814, the US was forced to put a ban on 
newspapers publicizing the movement of its 
military units.
Publication Ban
All American Regulars 
Enlistments and restored 
Fled units bound for 
Albany are instead placed 
in Rome this turn.
Often pushed to their limits marching 
through snow and bitter cold, soldiers 
were rushed into battle.
Forced March
Add up to 2 movement to 1 army 
selected for movement this turn. 
This card cannot be played 
with a Warship movement card.
Kentucky militiamen were noted for their 
fierceness. Their rallying cry, “Remember the 
Raisin” evoked memories of the massacre of 
Kentuckian prisoners of war in January 1813.
Kentucky Militia
All American Militia hit 
results inflict 2 hits in 
all battles this turn. 
With war on their doorstep, regular farmers 
picked up their rifles to join the Militia.
Hometown Support
Add 2 American Militia
Units to one American 
Homeland Objective Area 
(even if enemy occupied).
An obvious target with his commanding 
height and in his general’s uniform, General 
Brock was wounded in the hand and then 
shot and killed by American sharpshooters.
Captain Aisquith’s 
Sharpshooters
In all battles this turn, select which 
enemy units are removed by all 
American Regulars and American 
Militia hit results.
Special Cards
The Active Player’s turn is over and a new turn begins by 
drawing a new Turn Order Marker from the Draw Bag.
4.0 Game End 
The game end condition is evaluated at the end of round 3 
and at the end of each subsequent round. 
The game ends if at the end of a round all Truce Cards of one 
or both sides (1.0) have been played. There are 3 Truce Cards 
for the British allies or 2 for the American allies. 
The game is won by the side with the most Control Markers 
on the map (3.2.8). Games can end in a tie.
Ex. The Americans control three British Objectives, so 
have 3 American Control Markers on the map. The British 
control two American Objectives, so have 2 British Control 
Markers on the map. The Americans win by 1. 
Many Canadians supported the idea of 
a republican democracy over the British 
Monarchy and fought with the Americans.
Turncoat
Replace 1 Canadian
Militia unit with 1
American Militia unit
in one battle.
Fort Mackinac (pronounced Mackinaw), 
located in the straights between Lake 
Huron and Lake Michigan, was taken by a 
small force of British regulars, First Nations 
and fur traders on July 17, 1812.
Mackinac Reinforcements
Add 2 British Regular units to any 
one area adjacent to Lake Huron. 
This can be a British or American 
homeland area and these units can 
be moved this turn.
Military musicians were used to set the pace 
of the march and inspire confidence.
Fife and Drum
All armies moved this turn 
may move one additional area. 
This card may not be played 
with a Warship movement card.
Once Napoleon was defeated in Europe, the 
British could focus their attention on the war 
in North America and sent fresh troops and 
supplies.
Napoleon Defeated
Add 2 British Regular units
to Montreal, even if it is
occupied by the enemy.
General Isaac Brock led the defense of 
Upper Canada. His death on Queenston 
Heights inspired his soldiers to rally and 
win the battle.
General Brock
During all battles this turn,
Canadian Militia ignore 
all Flee results.
At 11:30pm on June 5, 1813, under cover 
of darkness, a British advance party silently 
dispatched American sentries near their 
encampment at Stoney Creek.
Ambush
Remove 2 American units before 
resolving one battle in a British 
homeland area. The American 
player(s) decide which 2 units to 
remove. 
Legend tells that Billy Green, ’The Scout’, 
warned the British Colonel at Stoney Creek of 
a gathering American force. This allowed the 
British to counter with a suprise night attack.
Billy Green
Before one battle, your side 
makes an attack roll, applying 
only hit results. Then the battle 
begins and is resolved normally. 
While awaiting the arrival of British troops 
from across the Atlantic, militiamen were 
trained in the battle style of the British 
regulars.
Training
Convert 2 Canadian Militia
to 2 British Regulars in one
British homeland area.
These units can be trained 
and moved on the same turn. 
War Hawks #09 
Ex: Movement card #1 was 
to be moved 3 areas each. 
Now the active player may 
move 4 armies 3 areas each. 
William Harrison #10 
Ex: At least one unit in 
the army that moves must 
be blue. Units may be left 
behind in the original area. 
Publication Ban #11 
Ex: For this turn only, Rome 
acts as an American Regulars 
Muster Area (3.1). Units may 
not be placed in Albany.
Forced March #12 
Ex: Movement card #02 was 
to be moved 3 areas each. 
One of these armies may now 
move 5 areas. 
Kentucky Militia #09 
Ex: For every white Battle 
Dice hit, the British allies 
must remove 2 units of their 
choice. 
Hometown Support #10 
Ex: If there are not enough 
white American Militia units 
in the Unit Force Pool, these 
units may be pulled from the 
Fled Units Space. 
Captain Aisquith’s 
Sharpshooters #11 
Ex: Both American allied 
players get the advantage of 
this card in battle during the 
American Militia player’s 
turn. 
Turncoat #12 
Ex: This card must be played 
before the battle begins. 
Mackinac 
Reinforcements #09 
Ex: The British Regular units 
may be placed in an enemy 
occupied area. 
Fife and Drum #10 
Ex: Movement card #03 was 
to be moved 1 area each. 
Both armies may now move 
2 areas each. 
Napoleon Defeated #11 
Ex: These units can only be 
placed if there are enough red 
units in the British Regulars 
Unit Force Pool. 
General Brock #12 
Ex: All yellow Battle Dice flee 
results are ignored. 
Ambush #09 
occur after movement, 
but before any battles are 
resolved. 
Billy Green #10 
Ex: The battle takes place in 
a British Homeland area. All 
British alliance players roll 
once and apply only the hit 
results. They then begin the 
battle by rolling again. 
Training #11 
Ex: These units must be 
converted before any 
movement takes place. 
John Brant helped lead First Nation warriors 
to stop an American attack at the Battle of 
Queenston Heights in October 1812.
John Brant
Add 2 Native American units
to any one area containing
other Native American units. 
The area can be a British or 
American homeland area. 
Tecumseh was a feared Shawnee leader 
who tried to unite the First Nations people. 
During the war of 1812, his confederacy 
allied with the British and helped in the 
capture of Fort Detroit.
Tecumseh
Before a battle, your opponents 
make an attack roll, applying only 
flee results. Then the battle begins 
and is resolved normally. 
John Norton, who claimed Scottish and 
Cherokee parentage, led the Six Nations 
Iroquois into battle alongside the British. As 
’Captain of the Confederate Indians’ he was 
the main liaison between the British and the 
Six Nations.
John Norton
From one area move any number 
of Native American units to adjacent 
areas. Only 1 unit may be moved 
into each adjacent area. 
The First Nations’ chilling war cries were 
credited with discouraging the American 
militia from crossing into Canada at the battle 
of Queenston Heights.
War Cry
Choose one area and move in 
up to 1 Native American unit from 
each adjacent area. This area does 
not need to already contain a 
Native American unit and it can be 
enemy occupied. 
John Brant #09 
Ex: These 2 units may be 
moved after being placed. 
Tecumseh #10 
Ex: The Native American 
player chooses one battle 
before it is resolved. The 
American players must roll 
for their units, counting only 
flee results. 
John Norton #11 
may be used before or after 
the movement card for the 
turn has been resolved. Areas 
may be enemy occupied and 
result in battle. 
War Cry #12 
may be used before or after 
the movement card for the 
turn has been resolved. Areas 
may be enemy occupied and 
can result in battle. 
5.0 Card Examples 
Below, clarifications are given for the 
Special Cards supplied with the game.

1812 Full Campaign Scenario Setup - This is the full version of the game. 
Starting Units: Populate the map areas with the corresponding colored units that are printed on the map (1.2). 
Additional Units: Place additional units in the following areas. These additional units are also pictured on the map below. 
 	
2 , 3 in Detroit; 	
	
2 , 1 in Buffalo; 	
	
1 in Ft. Niagara; 
1 , 2 in Williamsburg; 	
1 , 1 in Sacket’s Harbor; 	
2 , 1 in Ogdensburg; 	
2 . 2 in Plattsburg.
	
	
1 , 1 in Lacolle; 	
	
1 in Montreal; 	
	
1 in Cornwall; 
1 in Prescott; 	
	
1 . 1 . 1 in Amherstburg. 
Starting Cards: Each player builds their deck with the cards listed below, shuffles this deck and then draws the top 3 cards.
American Regulars: 01, 03, 05, 06, 09, 11. American Militia: 01, 03, 04, 05, 09, 12.
British Regulars: 03, 04, 05, 07, 10, 12. Canadian Militia: 03, 04, 05, 07, 10, 12. Native Americans: 02, 04, 05, 07, 09, 10.
Starting Round: Place the Round Marker Pawn on round 1. 
Starting Turn: Place all of the Turn-Order markers into the draw bag and randomly draw one out and place it on the first turn 
spot. This faction will play first.
Game End: The game is over at the end of round two and is won by the side with the most Control Markers on the map. The 
introductory game does not utilize Truce Cards or the Full Campaign Scenario’s game end conditions. 
Starting Units: Populate the map areas with the corresponding colored units that are printed on the map (1.2). 
Additional Units: After the initial on-board units are placed, the British Regulars, Canadian Militia, and Native American 
players each place 4 additional units of their color on any British homeland area. Next, the American Militia and American 
Regular players each place 6 additional units of their color on any American homeland area. 
A player’s units may be placed on one or more areas, including empty areas. 
Starting Cards: Each player shuffles their deck of cards and then draws the top 3 cards.
Starting Round: Place the Round Marker Pawn on round 1. 
Starting Turn: Place the American Regulars’ Turn Order Marker on the Turn 1 space. That player goes first. 
Place the remaining Turn Order Markers into the draw bag. These will be pulled randomly at the beginning of subsequent 
turns to determine the random turn order. 
Game End: The game end conditions are evaluated at the end of round 3 and at the end of each subsequent round. If all of the 
Truce Cards from one or both Alliances have been played, the game ends. The side with the most Control Markers on the map 
wins (4.0). 
1812 Introductory Scenario Setup - Recommended if players are new to the game. 
The large colored squares represent 
additional units placed during setup, 
in addition to the units printed on the 
map.

Historical Introduction: By the spring of 1813, the war had been raging for almost a year with fierce battles occurring on both sides of the 
border. The Americans realized that this was not going to be a simple invasion. Under the command of General William Hull, the American 
northwest army had been defeated at Fort Detroit, losing the entire territory of Michigan to the British. In addition, several attempts to advance 
on the Niagara front failed.
Undeterred, the American forces rallied for a second invasion of Canada. William Harrison amassed an army in the west, ready to retake 
Michigan and march onward into British territory. York (present day Toronto), the capitol of Upper Canada, was raided and burned by men 
from Sacket’s Harbor. In the Niagara peninsula, Fort George finally fell to American troops who then marched on Stoney Creek. American 
plans for Lower Canada were well underway, focusing on a two-pronged attack on Montreal.
The war is at its peak and both sides are desperately trying to hold their territories. The Americans, confronted with unexpected resistance, 
are pushed to the limits of their resources and the British are struggling to maintain their presence in North America. This is where “1813 
Scenario” begins...
Starting Units: Populate the map areas with the starting units listed below. These starting units are also shown on the map as the 
large colored squares. The units printed on the actual map are not placed. 
	
4 , 5 in Ft. Meigs; 	 	
3 , 2 south of Ft. Meigs; 	
1 , 1 in Youngstown; 
1 , 2 in Pittsburgh; 		
1 , 1 in Franklin;	
	
1 , 1 in Erie;	
	
2 , 2 in Ft. George; 
1 , 2 in Ft. Niagara; 	
2 , 2 in Buffalo; 	
	
2 , 2 in York;	
	
2 in Williamsburg; 
2 , 2 in Oswego; 	
	
2 , 1 in Sacket’s Harbor; 	
2 , 2 in Rome; 	
	
2 in Utica; 
1 , 1 in Albany; 	
	
1 , 1 in Caldwell; 	 	
3 , 2 in Ft. Ticonderoga;	
 in Plattsburg
	
	
2 in Chambly; 	 	
1 , 2 in Lacolle; 	
	
1 , 1 in Montreal; 
1 , 1 west of Montreal; 	
1 , 1 in Cornwall; 	 	
2 , 1 in Ogdensburg; 	
1 , 1 in Prescott; 
1 , 1 in Kingston; 	 	
2 in Smith’s Creek; 	
2 , 4 in Six Nations; 	
2 north of Six Nations; 
2 in Dover; 	
	
2 in Oxford; 	
	
 in London; 	
	
1 , 1 in Moraviantown; 
2 north of Moraviantown; 	
2 , 2 , 1 in Amherstburg; 1 , 2 in Detroit; 	
	
1 , 2 , 1 in Dundas; 
1 , 2 in Frenchtown; 	
2 , 1 , 2 in Queenston/ Ft. Erie 
Starting Cards: Each player builds their deck with all cards minus those listed below. Each deck is then shuffled and each 
player then draws the top 3 cards from their deck. American Regulars: -01, -03, -09. 	
American Militia: -01, -07, -11. 
British Regulars: -03, -07, -09, -12. 	
	
 Canadian Militia: -03, -07, -11. 	
Native Americans: -02, -07, -11.
Starting Turn: Place all of the Turn-Order markers into the draw bag and randomly draw one out and place it on the first turn 
spot. This faction will play first. Starting Round: Place the Round Marker Pawn on round 3. 
Game End: The game end conditions are evaluated at the end of round 3 and at the end of each subsequent round. If all of the 
Truce Cards from one or both Alliances have been played, the game ends. The side with the most Control Markers wins (4.0). 
1813 Scenario Setup - This scenario begins in Round 3, with factions already in the midst of battle. 
The large colored squares 
represent all units placed on the 
map during setup. Units printed 
on the map are not placed.

The War of 1812 has been called America’s second war of 
independence, a forgotten conflict, the war that nobody won. 
It was a complex and fascinating chapter in North American 
history which shaped the destiny of two nations. Beginning in 
2012, its bicentennial will commemorate 200 years of peace 
between Canada and the United States.
Causes of the War
The causes of the war were complex and remain controversial 
to this day. Not all Americans at the time favored war, and 
some issues were more important in certain regions of the 
United States than others. In addition, much of the public 
debate had more to do with sensational newspaper reports 
and inflammatory speeches than what was actually going on. 
Ultimately, a number of factors contributed in some degree to 
the decision to go to war.
Sailors’ Rights - Since 1799, Britain had been embroiled 
in a war against Napoleon Bonaparte. To carry out the war, 
Britain constantly needed new recruits for the Royal Navy. 
Impressment – forcing men into service against their will – 
was the solution. Along with drafting men in British ports, 
the British navy stopped neutral American vessels and seized 
anyone deemed to be a British subject or a deserter. There 
were numerous abuses, including the notorious Chesapeake 
affair. In June 1807, the American frigate was hailed by HMS 
Leander off the coast of Virginia. British officers wanted 
to search for navy deserters 
onboard. When the Chesapeake 
objected, the Leander opened 
fire, killing three and injuring 
sixteen. Four men were taken 
into custody – three of them 
Americans who had deserted 
from the British navy after being 
pressed into service. The fourth, a 
British subject, was subsequently 
hanged for desertion, while 
one of the Americans died in 
prison in Halifax. Outraged 
Americans loudly protested British actions and focused on 
the Chesapeake affair as a symbol of British arrogance and 
violation of American rights - even though a diplomatic 
agreement was reached in November 1811 which arranged 
for the compensation and the return of the surviving 
Americans.
Free Trade - Economic issues also contributed to the war. 
Both Britain and France imposed various sanctions against 
neutral vessels, each hoping to deprive the other of needed 
supplies. This made it more difficult and costly for Americans 
to trade with Europe. Businessmen and politicians in the U.S. 
strongly objected to Britain’s orders-in-council, a series of 
decrees meant to limit or stop neutral ships from trading with 
France and her allies. 
Other restrictions enacted by both Britain and France 
also cut into American profits, especially when either side 
used their laws as an excuse to capture American ships and 
their cargoes. In the nine years leading up to the war, about 
1,700 ships were seized. Although roughly half were taken 
by France and her allies, it was the British seizures which 
received the most attention and fueled pro-war sentiments. 
Ironically, the orders-in-council were rescinded on June 23, 
1812, before Britain heard of the declaration of war. News did 
not reach Washington until August 13.
Native Relations - as settlers moved into territories held by 
various Indian tribes, notably in the old Northwest (Ohio, 
Illinois, Michigan, Indiana and Wisconsin) they often ignored 
existing treaties and attacked natives without a second 
thought. Just as often, the natives retaliated.
Recalling the Revolution and the depredations of 
Britain’s native allies, Americans accused the British of 
providing weapons and ammunition and encouraging 
natives to attack white settlers. The British did maintain close 
relationships with the native people, traded with them, and 
supplied arms and weapons. But they did not want a full-
scale war with the U.S. and encouraged peaceful solutions to 
conflicts whenever possible. However, that did not prevent 
the British from manipulating native feelings against the 
United States in order to keep them from pushing into 
British-held territory. One goal the British had held since the 
end of the Revolution was the creation of a separate native 
territory at the southwestern border of Canada, which would 
act as a buffer zone against the Americans.
What both sides often forgot was that most natives did 
not consider themselves subjects but nations in their own 
right, with their own cultures, internal 
conflicts and political agendas. Years 
before the war began, in reaction 
to decades of broken promises and 
white encroachment, the Shawnee 
prophet Tenskwatawa and his warrior 
brother Tecumseh had started working 
to unite various tribes and persuade them to return to 
traditional ways. The resulting unrest led to native raids on 
frontier settlements and then to the Battle of Tippecanoe 
in November 1811. Future president 
William Henry Harrison’s victory there 
and the destruction of Prophetstown 
[near Lafayette, Indiana] undermined 
the influence of the brothers and 
pushed Tecumseh into a closer alliance 
with the British during the War of 
1812.
Land Hunger - As the American population expanded, the 
need for land increased. Aside from eyeing western lands 
held by native people, Americans looked northward. After 
the American Revolution, John Grave Simcoe, the first 
lieutenant-governor of Upper Canada [Ontario] had lured 
many Americans to the province with the promise of cheap, 
fertile land. As a result of this, as well as the migration of 
United Empire Loyalists after the Revolution, in 1812 about 
30 percent of the population of Upper Canada was American 
born.
The term “manifest destiny” was not yet in use, but many 
Americans believed they were destined to occupy the entire 
North American continent. Although historians argue that 
land hunger alone would not have led to war, it was one factor 
A Historical Overview of The War of 1812-1815

which politicians and journalists used to inflame the public.
Politics - Republicans, who controlled the government, 
often accused Federalists of being too sympathetic to the 
British. They saw war as a way to undermine their political 
opponents. Regional interests played a part as well. Most 
Republicans were from the south and west, where there 
was considerable support for the war. Federalists, on the 
other hand, were more dominant in the north and east and 
generally opposed war.
When the question went to a vote, the decision was made 
along party lines, with 86 per cent of Republicans who voted 
favoring the war and 100 percent of Federalists opposing it. 
Because of the Republicans’ majority, just over 61 percent of 
those voting in the House of Representatives and the Senate 
came down in favor of war. 
The War Begins
When war was declared, most of the British army and navy 
were engaged in fighting Napoleon and his allies. This, the 
Americans believed, gave them an advantage. By attacking 
Canada, there was a good possibility they would win more 
territory as well as an advantage in negotiating with Britain 
on issues such as sailor’s rights and free trade. Canada, as 
former president Thomas Jefferson famously remarked, 
was “a mere matter of marching.” First of all, the American 
population of 7.5 million was fifteen times greater than that 
of British North America. 
In Upper Canada, where much of the land action took 
place, the population was under 80,000, roughly 27,000 
of them American born, spread out in a long string of 
settlements along the north shore of the St. Lawrence River 
and the Great Lakes. Roads were poor, naval defenses were 
less than optimal, British regular forces were stretched 
to their limits and few members of the militia had any 
significant training. Right from the start there were fears of 
food shortages, since many essential goods – notably the salt 
needed to preserve meat – had to be imported. Add to this 
a widespread dissatisfaction with the government and the 
presence of many recently arrived Americans, who, it was 
believed, would happily take up arms and fight alongside 
their former country and it seemed Jefferson’s prediction was 
correct. 
To complicate matters even further, some native groups, 
notably the Six Nations of the Grand River, hesitated to 
support the British-Canadian cause. After losing land to 
the United States because of their alliance with the British 
during the Revolution, they had settled in southern Ontario. 
Ongoing land disputes, reluctance to fight against relatives 
still living in the U.S., fear that an American victory would 
again leave them homeless, and political factionalism at first 
kept them out of the war.
Because Britain’s main focus was defeating Napoleon in 
Europe, their initial strategy was to defend their territory 
from the American forces. This meant the Americans had to 
take the offensive, but no comprehensive strategy had been 
formulated prior to the war. In addition, the Republicans had 
reduced the armed forces considerably in the years leading 
up to the war as they were more concerned with paying off 
the national debt. The navy was in reasonably good shape, 
with experienced sailors who had seen action against pirates 
off the coast of Africa and in 
battles with France between 
1797 and 1801, although a 
number of vessels had been 
mothballed. The army was 
poorly organized and led 
mostly by older officers who 
had fought in the Revolution 
or were political appointees. 
The militia, on whom many 
Americans pinned their hopes 
of victory, were inadequately 
trained and poorly disciplined.
1812
The first campaign season 
brought some notable success 
on the water. American 
privateers constantly harassed 
British vessels and the navy 
won a number of engagements. 
In August, the Constitution, 
later nicknamed Old Ironsides, 
defeated the British ship 
Guerrière 750 miles east of 
Boston.
Land campaigns did 
not go so well. William Hull 
crossed into the western end of Upper Canada on July 12, 
issuing a proclamation to encourage settlers to remain 
peaceably at home and threatening to execute anyone 
caught fighting alongside native warriors. Major-General 
Isaac Brock, commander of the forces in Upper Canada and 
acting lieutenant-governor of the province, responded with 
a declaration of his own and laid plans to push Hull out of 
Canada.
Four days after Hull crossed into Canada, a combined 
force of British-Canadian soldiers, native warriors and fur 
traders moved artillery into place under cover of darkness 
on Michillimackinac Island, a strategically located post in 
the narrow passage between Lakes Michigan and Huron. The 
next day, they forced surrender of the Fort Mackinac. The 
fort’s commander, Lieutenant Porter Hanks had not yet been 
informed that the United States was at war.
When Hull learned of the surrender, he concluded that 
tribes of the northwest would attack American settlers and 
his own forces. He pulled most of his men back across the 
border and ordered Fort Dearborn [Chicago] abandoned. 
In mid-August, troops under Isaac Brock reached the 
eastern side of the Detroit River and set up artillery. After 
bombarding Fort Detroit, he 
convinced Hull that in the 
event of an attack he would not 
be able to control his native 
allies, including warriors 
under Tecumseh and John 
Norton of the Six Nations. Hull 
surrendered.
These two virtually bloodless victories raised morale in 
Upper Canada and encouraged the participation of more 

native warriors. They played a significant role at the Battle 
of Queenston Heights in October. The American invasion 
fell apart because of conflict between senior officers and the 
refusal of New York militia to cross into Canadian territory. 
As the first campaign season ended, it was clear that the 
invasion of Canada had not progressed as hoped by the 
Americans and was far from over. 
1813
January 1813 brought horrific events. American troops, sent 
to recapture the Michigan territory Hull had surrendered the 
previous year, were defeated at Frenchtown [Monroe]. In the 
aftermath of the battle, more than 60 American prisoners 
of war were massacred by the natives allied with the British. 
Many of the dead were 
Kentuckians and “Remember 
the Raisin” became a rallying 
cry in further battles. In early 
February, the British navy 
blockaded the Chesapeake 
and Delaware bays, gradually 
expanding their patrols to the entire American coast.
As spring approached, the United States prepared for 
an attack on Kingston, the primary British naval base on 
the Great Lakes. Exaggerated reports of the strength of the 
naval base there, plus behind-the-scenes political wrangling 
changed the target to York [Toronto], the capital of Upper 
Canada. One of the main goals to was to capture two British 
vessels anchored there, but one left before the Americans 
arrived while the other was burned as the British withdrew. 
American forces occupied the town for a week, burning 
public buildings, occupying private dwellings and looting.
By this point, the “shipbuilders’ war” was in full swing. 
Realizing the crucial role naval strength would play in the 
outcome of the war, both sides hurried to build new and 
bigger vessels, while capturing and destroying those of the 
enemy. Sacket’s Harbor, the U.S. naval headquarters on 
the Great Lakes, was attacked by the British in May, but 
American forces successfully repulsed them.
The U.S. fared better at two sieges at Fort Meigs, Ohio, 
although again some American captives were massacred by 
native warriors. And there was a significant progress in the 
Niagara area, with the capture of Fort George and occupation 
of the Niagara peninsula. By early June, American troops had 
advanced as far west as Stoney Creek but were pushed back 
after a confused night battle. 
In the aftermath, Captain James FitzGibbon, an Irishman 
serving with the British forces, asked for and received 
permission to form an elite group of soldiers to harass 
American troops in the Niagara Peninsula. FitzGibbon’s 
Green Tigers wreaked such havoc that 500 troops under 
Lieutenant-Colonel Charles G. Boerstler were assigned 
to root them out of their headquarters. Laura Secord, 37, 
whose father had served with 
American patriots during the 
Revolution, heard of the plans 
and walked 32 kilometers to 
warn FitzGibbon. Although 
he may have already known 
of the planned attack, Laura 
eventually became one of the most famous Canadian figures 
of the War of 1812. As it turned out, although FitzGibbon was 
initially given credit for defeating Boerstler and his men, the 
fighting was actually carried out by native troops from Upper 
and Lower Canada. 
The most significant American victory of 1813 was the 
Battle of Lake Erie in September when Commodore Oliver 
Hazard Perry defeated British ships under Lieutenant Robert 
Barclay at Put-in-Bay. British losses included six ships, 41 
dead and 94 wounded. The result was that the United States 
controlled the southwestern portion of Upper Canada. In 
the aftermath of the Battle of Lake Erie, the Six Nations fled 
their lands along the Grand River to take refuge near British 
military headquarters on Burlington Bay, near present-
day Hamilton. Meanwhile, the British army contemplated 
abandoning the area and withdrawing to Kingston.
The Battle of the Thames followed in October, an 
American victory, at which Shawnee war leader Tecumseh 
was killed. Further east, Americans staged a two-pronged 
attack in an attempt to capture Montreal and the surrounding 
territory, but were repulsed at Chateauguay, Lower Canada, 
and Crysler’s Farm, Upper Canada.
In December, as American troops prepared to withdraw 
across the Niagara River, the village of Newark [Niagara-on-
the-Lake] was torched. The occupants were women, children 
and the elderly, since most of the able-bodied men were 
either prisoners-of-war or in active service. The action was 
condemned on both sides of the border, and led to retaliation 
later that month when British troops burned Lewiston, 
Youngstown, Manchester, Buffalo and Black Rock, New York.
1814
The war in Europe was coming to a close as 1814 began. In 
an attempt to take advantage of their ascendancy on Lake 
Erie and the western section of Upper Canada, Americans 
planned to recapture Mackinac. They reached the island in 
July, but were unsuccessful.
In March, American troops marched on Montreal, but 
were stopped at Lacolle, just north of 
the American border. That month, 
Napoleon Bonaparte abdicated, 
allowing Britain to concentrate more 
closely on the war in North America. 
By April, battle-hardened troops were 
on their way across the ocean.
Meanwhile, civilian targets were attacked in western 
Upper Canada. In May, several settlements along the north 
shore of Lake Erie and further inland were burned.
In Niagara, the Americans occupied Fort Erie then met 
the British at the Battle of Chippawa on July 5. In the bloody 
battle that followed, Generals Jacob Brown and Winfield 
Scott defeated about 2,000 British-Canadians under General 
Phineas Riall, who had wrongly assumed that part of the 
American force was still involved in capturing Fort Erie. 
Later that month, the two armies clashed on a hot July night 
at Lundy’s Lane. The fighting between 3500 British and 2800 
Americans was intense, confusing and inconclusive, although 
both sides claimed victory.
That summer, British troops made their way towards the 
U.S. capital, landing near Washington on August 14th and 
gradually working their way towards the capitol. When they 
arrived on August 25, they found much of the city deserted 

and set about burning public buildings, including the White 
House. That action was widely criticized, even though it was 
claimed that it was a justifiable retaliation for the burning of 
York in April 1813.
An attack on Baltimore followed in September. During 
the bombardment of Fort McHenry, Francis Scott Key 
observed an oversized American flag flying from the fort 
and jotted down some words that would eventually become 
‘The Star-Spangled Banner’. Unable to get close enough to 
do serious damage, the British eventually withdrew from 
Baltimore harbor.
Meanwhile, Canadian Governor-General Sir George 
Prevost, who much preferred diplomacy to action in the field 
marched towards Lake Champlain. His plan was to capture 
Plattsburgh, New York, but a battle between American 
and British squadrons on Lake Champlain ended with an 
American victory and Prevost withdrew.
That fall, Americans at 
Fort Erie marched northwards 
in a bid to gain additional 
territory. They ran into 
British troops at Cook’s 
Mill [Welland]. Although 
the Americans forced the 
British to retreat and captured 
supplies, they were unable 
to consolidate their victory 
after learning that the British 
had gained control of Lake 
Ontario.
From the west, 1,500 Americans under Duncan 
McArthur swept across Upper Canada, burning and looting. 
Their goal was to reinforce the troops in the Niagara 
Peninsula, but they were turned back at the Grand River. A 
brief skirmish followed at Malcolm’s Mills [Oakland], where 
the Norfolk militia and regulars were quickly defeated by 
McArthur’s men in what would prove to be the war’s last land 
battle in Canada.
Although fighting continued in the southern United 
States for the remainder of the year, the war was coming to an 
end as peace talks proceeded in Europe.
Peace Talks
The first real attempt at ending the war came in August 
1812. Sir George Prevost and American commander Henry 
Dearborn arranged a brief truce to allow time to consider 
the repealing of the orders-in-council. It lasted from August 
9 until September 8. That month, Russian Tsar Alexander 
I offered to broker peace 
talks, but was not seriously 
considered. It was not until 
January 1814 that the United 
States and Britain agreed to 
send representatives to meet 
face to face. The talks began 
that August in Ghent, which 
was then part of Holland. 
Although both sides tried to 
win various concessions, when 
the Treaty of Ghent was signed 
on Christmas Eve, its main 
thrust was a return to pre-war conditions – status quo ante 
bellum.
According to official reports, the war resulted in about 
11,300 American casualties and 8,600 British-Canadians 
killed, wounded or missing. In actuality, casualties were 
probably much higher as losses were often under-reported 
and it was impossible to calculate how many, including 
civilians, died or were permanently disabled as a result of 
disease or hardships suffered during the war.
The Battle of New Orleans
Although the Treaty of Ghent was signed on December 24, 
1814, it did not come into effect until both sides ratified the 
agreement. Before details of the treaty reached the United 
States, British and American troops clashed at the Battle of 
New Orleans on January 8, 1815. It was a major triumph for 
the Americans and the last major battle of the war.
Historical Overview written by Cheryl MacDonald
For further reading we suggest: 
Benn, Carl; The Iroquois in the War of 1812, 1998. 
Osprey Publishing; The War of 1812, 2002.
Hickey, Donald; The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict, 1989.
University of Illinois Press; Don’t Give Up the Ship: Myths of 
the War of 1812, 2006.
Sheppard, George; Plunder, Profit, and Paroles: A Social 
History of the War of 1812 in Upper Canada, 1994.
Taylor, Alan; The Civil War of 1812: American Citizens, British 
Subjects, Irish Rebels and Indian Allies, 2010
Zuehlke, Mark; For Honour’s Sake: The War of 1812 and the 
Brokering of an Uneasy Peace, 2006.
1812 - The Invasion of Canada AYG 5318 
Copyright © 2011 Academy Games, Inc.
Helena, Ohio USA 419-307-2115
www.Academy-Games.com
Game Design: Beau Beckett and Jeph Stahl
Game Editor: Uwe Eickert
Artwork and Graphic Design: Jarek Nocoń 
Box Cover Art: Steven Paschal - www.stephenpaschal.com
Historical Overview: Cheryl MacDonald - www.heronwoodent.ca
Rules Review and Editing: Kai von der Aa, Brian Bennett, 
Jacob Cassens, Steven Duke, Kirsten Eickert, Carlos 
Ferreira, Burkhard Hannig, Michael Koznarsky, Michael 
Marentette, Thierry Mattray, Stan Myszak, James Palmer, 
Wojciech Pawlus, Jack Stalica, Kevan Sumner, Michael 
Vinarcik. 
Play Testing: Alice Beckett, Garner Beckett, Edith Bouchard, 
Dominic Crapuchettes, Greg Daigle, Mary Dunn, Micah 
Fuller, Mathew Gibson, Mark Goadrich, Brian Gasbarini, 
Kory Heath, James Kyle, Rob Leveille, Justin Love, 
Brett Myers, Nathan Radke, Steve Robinson, Trevor Sales, 
Brad Schott, Scott Tomlinson, Jeff Vienneau.