Getting Started — If everyone is familiar with the rules, a game of 1830 
should require 3 to 5 hours to play. If several players are playing for the 
first time, the game runs somewhat longer. 
 If you are unfamiliar with the 18XX game system and aren’t prepared to 
jump into the deep end, you should play the starter game. This will allow 
you to become familiar with the concepts of laying track and running 
trains without the added complexity of a stock market. A starter game 
requires about 60-90 minutes.
RULES
Designed by 
Francis Tresham 
Developed by 
Bruce Shelley et al.
18XX — 1830 is part of the “18XX” series 
of railroad games, which use a common 
set of rules and concepts. However, each 
game has its own special features and 
exceptions to the general rules. 
Copyright © 2011 Mayfair Games, Inc. & Francis 
Tresham. “1830” and the “18XX Plate” mark are 
trademark properties of Francis Tresham. All 
rights reserved.
Welcome to 1830, the game of railroads and robber barons. 1830 is a 
railroad game set in the northeastern United States and southeastern 
Canada. You and your fellow players take on the roles of railroad 
investors and corporate presidents, with the objective of making 
money. You can do that by protecting assets under your control or by 
plundering them, depending on your personal inclinations.
In 1830, you accumulate wealth by buying, owning, and selling 
shares of stock in a number of railroad corporations. Your stock 
shares provide ready cash via dividend payments and longer-term 
gains through possible increases in stock prices. If you are the single 
largest stockholder in a corporation, you become its president and 
control the operations of that railroad—ideally, but not necessarily, 
for the benefit of all stockholders. 
At the end of the day, you win only if you accumulate the most 
wealth in cash and stock. So, sharpen your daggers as well as your 
wits! If you don’t stab your opponents in the back and grind them 
under your boot heels, they may be more than happy to do it to you. 
Using These Rules
1830 includes rules for a number of different versions of the game:
a 1830 Starter Game (separate booklet) — In this shorter game 
you do not buy and sell stock. You just operate the railroads: 
laying track, building stations, and generating revenue. 
a 1830 Base Game (or “1830◈,” pp. 7-24) — This is the full 
game, but it does not use some of the more complex special 
rules. Use this if you are a new player or for a shorter game.
a 1830 Classic ( or “1830★,” pp. 25-27) — 1830 Classic uses 
the 1830 Base Game rules with only a few special rules and 
variants. These are noted in the sidebars for the Base Game. 
These are the original 1830 game rules.
a 1830 Variants (pages 28-33) — These rules detail various 
elements of the game. They can be used in any combination 
agreed on by the players before a game begins. 
a 1830+ Scenarios (pages 34-43) — Each scenario details a set 
of variant rules that can be used with the 
 to play a 
specific version of 1830+. 
Overview.................................... 2
Components............................. 4
Base Game.................................... 7
1.0 Preparing For Play................. 7
2.0 Sequence of Play Summary.. 9
3.0 The Phases.............................10
4.0 Private Companies...............11
5.0 The Stock Market................. 12
6.0 Stock Rounds........................14
7.0 Operating Rounds................16
8.0 The End of the Game...........24
1830 Classic...........................25
C-1.0 Clarifications....................25
C-2.0 Rules Changes & 
Additions .............................25
Variants....................................28
1830+ Scenarios.....................34
S-1.0 “A Level Playing Field”..................34
S-2.0 “No One Expects the 
Canadian Pacific”..........................37
S-3.0 “The Empire Builders 
Strike Back”....................................38
S-4.0 “Opening up West, 
By-God, Virginia”..........................39
S-5.0 “Uncertain Times”.........................40
S-6.0 “Dave? What are you doing...”.......42
Appendix.............................. 44-48
T-01 Track Tiles to Remove.....................45
T-02 Board Tiles........................................45
T-03 Trains.................................................45
T-04 Script Manifest.................................45
T-05 The Private Companies...................46
T-06 Variable Due to # of Players...........46
T-07 The Private Company......................46
T-08 The Railroads....................................47
T-09 Track Tile Manifest & Upgrades....48

A – large city B – open, terrain cost $80
C – small city, revenue of 10
D – 2 large cities, private company
E – large city, private company, 
 track to SW & E, revenue of 30, 
 B&O starting city
The B&O railroad builds track A and 
connects Baltimore B and Atlantic City C. 
A 2-train can now run a route between the 
two cities for revenue of $40 (30 + 10).
Large 
City
Track Tiles
 
 Old Tile #
Value
1830 
Icon
Small City
1830 is a railroad investment and building game. You and the 
other players are the stockholders of railroad corporations. Each 
corporation is controlled by its leading stock holder—its president. 
You expand your railroads and generate revenue by building track 
on the map, buying trains, and operating those trains. 
Investing and Controlling Railroads
1830 uses a stock market. You and the other players buy and sell 
shares in the railroad corporations. If you own the most shares in 
a corporation, you are its president and control its operations. You 
earn dividends if you own shares in flourishing corporations. If you 
sell shares in a corporation, the value of the remaining shares in that 
corporation drops. Like the real stock market, you try to buy shares 
in corporations that are rising in value, earn dividends while you 
can, and sell first when your money could be better used elsewhere. 
Building and Operating Railroads
A railroad corporation (or just railroad) builds by placing tiles 
on the hexagonal grid that is superimposed on the map. Each tile 
depicts segments of track and the cities that lie along that track. 
Cities are represented by large or small circles or by black crossbars 
on the tiles. The value of each city is printed in a small circle next to 
the city. 
A railroad also buys trains. Each train can run on the tracks to 
service the cities that the track connect. A series of tracks and 
cities that a train uses is called its route. A train can run a route if 
the route connects at least 2 cities—at least one of the cites must 
contain one of the railroad’s stations. A corporation earns money 
based on the value of the cities on its trains’ routes. 
Each non-diesel train has a number (2, 3, 4, etc)—the train’s type. 
A train’s route can only run to or through a number of cities less 
than or equal to the train’s type, e.g., the starting 2-trains can only 
run between two cities. All trains of one type must be purchased 
before the trains of the next type are available.
Each time the first train of a new type is purchased, the game 
enters a new phase. Each new phase changes one or more aspects of 
the game, including the tiles that can be played and the number of 
trains that can be owned by each corporation. Early trains become 
obsolete and are removed in later phases.
Play Sequence
You play 1830 in a series of stock rounds and operating rounds. 
In a stock round, you may buy and sell shares in the railroad 
corporations. In an operating round, you “run” each of the railroads 
you control (0, 1, or multiple). That is you lay track, run trains from 
station to station, buy trains, etc. 
Stock rounds alternate with one or more operating rounds. The 
number of operating rounds between stock rounds increases as the 
game proceeds. The game ends when the bank runs out of money, 
and you win if you are the wealthiest player. Your wealth is the 
combined total of your cash and the value of your stock portfolio. 
Note — In these rules, “railroad 
corporations” are also referred to as just 
“corporations” and as just “railroads,” 
depending upon the context. All three 
terms are equivalent.

Cost
Revenue
Private Company Certificates
Type➘
Cost➘
Train Card
 
# of shares
 
% of shares
Railroad Name
Railroad Corporation 
Certificates
Railroad Corporation Logos
The private companies in 1830 represent early railroads that 
existed before the larger railroad corporations started up. Each 
private company provides its owner a fixed revenue each operating 
round. Its owner may be a player or a corporation. The location 
of each of these companies is marked on the board with its name. 
Unlike corporations, private companies do not build track on the 
board or purchase trains. 
Railroad Corporations
There are 12 railroad corporations represented in the game. The 
corporations are usually identified by their initial letters.
All the corporations specified for a game or scenario are used 
irrespective of the number of people in the game. This is achieved 
by allowing players to buy shares in any of the corporations.
Usually a player will have the chance to control (i.e., run) at least 
one corporation. There are advantages to be gained from running 
several corporations, but this should not be an objective in itself. 
A minority interest in several well-run corporations can be more 
profitable than a controlling block of shares in a relatively poorly-
performing corporation. 
Controlling a Railroad Corporation
There are ten shares in each corporation that may be bought 
and sold during the game. Therefore the proportions held by the 
various players are likely to change as the game proceeds.
Each corporation is controlled by a president who is the largest 
(or tied for largest) shareholder in the corporation. The sale and 
purchase of shares may lead to a change of president, but it is 
necessary for the current president’s holding to be exceeded by a 
rival player before this will happen. A president who holds at least 
50% of the share in a corporation is safe from being unseated. For 
each corporation, one of the share certificates is the president’s 
certificate and is worth 2 shares. This certificate is always held by 
the corporation’s current president—so the president must hold at 
least 20% of the shares in the corporation.
GAME ETIQUETTE
Considerate players speed the play of the game and make the 
experience more fun for everyone. In a game of this length, players 
should plan their share purchases and company moves in advance 
of their turns—whenever possible.
The shares a player owns should be laid out in an orderly manner 
so that everyone can easily see them. All players are allowed to 
know how much money others have and what certificates they 
own. The trains, tokens, and private companies a corporation has 
should be displayed on the corporation charter for all to see. The 
corporation treasury should be stacked on the charter in clear sight, 
but the amount in the treasury need not be made public. Players 
wanting clarification of any of this information should try to time 
their requests so as to not interrupt another player’s turn.
You have purchased a game of 
the highest quality. However, 
if you find any components 
missing, please contact us for 
replacement pieces at:
custserv@mayfairgames.com

This section describes the components used in 1830:
 	
1	double-sided game board
	 144	cards used as certificates and trains: 
 (17 cards serve two purposes depending upon the side used)
	
10	private company certificates (on some train backs)
	
108	railroad corporation certificates (in 12 railroads)
	
37	train cards (in 7 types: 2s, 3s, 4s, 5s, 6s, 7s, and diesels)
	
5	variant train cards (2+2, 3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6)
	
1	priority deal card
	 12	corporation charters
	 180	bills (money: 1s, 5s, 10s, 20s, 50s, 100s, and 500s)
	 155	tiles (hex-shaped): 139 track tiles 16 board tiles 
	 35	tokens (circle-shaped): 
 34 station tokens and 1 misc. tokens
 40 	markers (square-shaped): 24 share markers, 2 round markers, 
 3 license markers, 5 uncertainty markers, 6 number markers
The Game Board 
The game board has the 1830 Classic map on one side and the 
1830+ map on the other. Both sides show the northeastern United 
States and southeastern Canada. The map is overlaid with a 
hexagonal grid—you build your railroad tracks by placing hex tiles 
on this grid. The map also depicts important geographical features: 
cities, lakes, rivers, mountains, and the Atlantic Ocean. The starting 
hex for each railroad is marked with that railroad’s logo.
1830+ Board Tiles (hex-shaped)
There are 16 board tiles that are used to modify the map for 
various scenarios (see Table T-02, pp. 45).
Private Company and Share Certificates 
There are 10 private company certificates—one for each company. 
There are ten shares in each of the 12 railroad corporations. 
However, the president certificates and several other special 
certificates each represents two shares. So there are only 8 or 9 
actual certificates for each corporation. 
Corporation Charters 
Each railroad corporation has a Charter of Incorporation. It is 
used to hold a corporation’s money, tokens, and trains. It also shows 
information about that corporation. 
Money
The bank holds $12,000 total in 7 denominations. The amount of 
money in the bank can be changed for shorter or longer games. 
Railroad Corporation Tokens (circle-shaped)
Each railroad corporation has 2-4 station tokens. 
Markers (square-shaped)
 There are a number of markers used in the game: an operating 
 round marker, 12 par value markers, 12 share value markers, etc.
Base Game — The 1830 Base 
Game and 1830 Classic use the same 
components.
★ 1830 Classic — The JK, CC, PP, 
and PL private companies are not 
used. The PMQ, N&W, NKP, and 
RDR railroads are not used.
★ 1830 Classic — There are 25 
station tokens and 16 share markers. 
The PMQ, N&W, NKP, and RDR 
tokens and markers are not used. 
The token that used to mark a 
railroad’s share value is replaced by a 
marker in this version of 1830. 
Note — The private company 
certificates are on the backs of the 
diesel trains and some of the 6-trains 
and 7-trains. The purchase of a 5-train 
retires the privates—then those trains 
can be used. 
Railroad 	
1830 Abbr.
Corporation	
(AAR Abbr.)
Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . PRR (PRR)
New York Central . . . . . . . NYC (NYC)
Canadian Pacific . . . . . . . . . . CPR (CP)
Baltimore & Ohio . . . . . . . B&O (B&O)
Chesapeake & Ohio . . . . C&O (C&O)
Erie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Erie (ERIE)
New York, New Haven, 
 & Hartford . . . . . . . . . . NNH (NH)
Boston & Maine . . . . . . . . . B&M (BM)
Norfolk & Western . . . . . . N&W (NW)
Pere Marquette . . . . . . . . . . PMQ (PM)
Nickel Plate . . . . . . . . . . . . NKP (NKP)
Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . RDR (RDG)
Private 	
1830 Abbr.
Company	
(AAR Abbr.)
Schuylkill Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SV
Pittsburgh & Louisville . . . . . . PL (P&L)
Champlain & St.Lawrence CS (C&StL)
C&O Canal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . CC
Potomac & Piedmont . . . . . . PP (P&P)
Delaware & Hudson . . . . . DH (D&H)
Mohawk & Hudson . . . . . MH (M&H)
James River & Kanawha . . . . . . . . . . JK
Camden & Amboy . . . . . . . CA (C&A)
Baltimore & Ohio . . . . . . . . BO (B&O) 

The 1830 Classic Side of the Game Board
Each corporation places one 
of its tokens on this grid to 
track its share price.
The Bank Pool
Place certificates sold and 
trains discarded here.
The Operating Round Track
Keep track of which operating 
round it is here.
The Par Value Track
Keep track of the par value of 
each corporation here.
Money
Board Tiles
The Share Certificates
Place the share certificates 
here—one stack for each railroad, 
with the president’s share on top.
The top card on the train stack 
at the right corresponds to the 
next phase of the game.
The Train Stack
Stack the available 
train cards; 2-trains on 
top, 3-trains next, etc.
Share Certificates
Corporation Charters
Tokens
Priority Deal Card
Markers

Large 
City
Track Tile
 
Value
1830 
Icon
Price
Type
Track Tiles (hex-shaped)
The game contains 139 track tiles in 4 colors: yellow, green, 
brown, and gray. 
The 1830 Classic tile set consists of 85 of those tiles. Both sides of 
each of the 1830 Classic track tiles are the same in terms of game 
effect. These are easily identified by the * on the front side of the 
tile, and by the classic graphic style of track on the back. 
The other 54 track tiles are expanded track tile set used for the 
variants, special rules, and some of the 1830+ scenarios. The front 
side of these tiles has the terrain, track, tile number, and stations; 
while the back side has information detailing scenarios that use the 
tile, upgrade information, the tile number, etc..
Note — Each track tile is labeled with 
1 or 2 letters and a number. If a tile has 
only one upper case letter, the letter 
corresponds to the base color of the tile: 
A = yellow, B =green, C = brown, D = 
gray. If a tile has two lower case letters, 
it can only be placed on a specific hex or 
set of hexes on the board (e.g., a “ny#” 
tile may only be placed on the New 
York City hex, a “oo” tile may only be 
place on a hex labeled “OO.”
★ 1830 Classic — There are 85 
tiles. Use either side of the tiles, and 
ignore the tiles without tracks/cities 
on both sides.
★ 1830 Classic — Only 26 trains 
are used: 6x 2-trains, 5x 3-trains, 
4x 4-trains, 3x 5-trains, 2x 6-trains, 
and 6x diesels. 
Front (#)	
Back (#)
diesels (7) . . . private companies (7)
7-trains (2) . . private companies (2)
6-trains (1) . . private companies (1)
6-trains (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-trains (3)
5-trains (4) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-trains (4)
4-trains (7) . . . . . . . . . standard back
3-trains (6) . . . . . . . . . standard back
Variant Trains (see V-7.10, p. 33):
2+2-train (1) . . . . . . . . standard back
3+3-train (1) . . . . . . . . standard back
4+4-train (1) . . . . . . . . standard back
5+5-train (1) . . . . . . . . standard back
6+6-train (1) . . . . . . . . standard back
The Trains 
The game contains 42 trains on 35 cards. These include 7 different 
standard types (see Table T-03, p. 45) and 5 variant trains. Each 
train card specifies that train’s price and its type, which represents 
the number of different cities it may service.
All of the 5-trains and three of the 6-trains have the 2-trains on 
their backs.When the first 4-train is bought, all of the 2-trains 
are removed from play. These 2-trains are flipped over to serve as 
available 5- and 6-trains.
Similarly, the private companies are backed by diesels (D), 
7-trains, and a 6-train. So when the privates are retired with the 
purchase of the first 5-train, those trains can be used later in the 
proper phase.

The rules in this section describe the 1830 Base Game. We 
recommend that new players use these rules to ease into play.
Preparing For Play	
 (1.0)
First lay out the components. The 1830 Base Game components 
are the same as those used in 1830 Classic—they are marked 
with “★”s. 
a Place the board in the center of the table with the “1830 Classic” 
side face up (see diagram below). 
a Place the 6 private company certificates that are marked with a 
“★” face up in an open area by the board. 
a Place the share certificates that are marked with a “★” in the 
spaces provided on the board, with the president’s certificate on 
the top of each stack. These certificates are the “initial offering.” 
It is essential that unsold share in the initial offering and shares 
in the bank pool always be clearly distinguished. (Note there are 
no shares in the bank pool when the game begins.)
 awrxrx ◈ Base Game ◈	 awrxrx
Base Game — The JK, CC, PP, 
and PL private companies are not 
used. The PMQ, N&W, NKP, and 
RDR railroads are not used.
Base Game — 26 trains are used: 
6x 2-trains, 5x 3-trains, 4x 4-trains, 
3x 5-trains, 2x 6-trains, 6x diesels. 
★ 1830 Classic — Randomly 
assign seating positions. A railroad’s 
money need not be revealed (see 
V-0.1 and V-1.0. p. 28).
a Place the four 4-trains marked 
with “★”s face up in a stack. Place 
the five 3-trains marked with “★”s 
face up on top of the 4-trains. 
Place the six 2-train cards marked 
with “★”s face up on top of the 
3-trains. 
a Use only the track tiles that are 
marked with “★”s—each of these 
tiles has track, and cities on both 
sides. Place these tiles in stacks 
so that the number of each can 
be determined when necessary. 
Only the yellow tiles are needed at 
first, but the others are relevant to 
planning for the later stages of the 
game. 
a Place the 8 corporation charters 
that are marked with “★”s next to 
the board. 
Select a Banker (1.1)
Choose a player to be banker. If you 
cannot agree, the oldest player is the 
banker. As banker, you need space for 
bank funds to be laid out in addition 
to your own money and possessions. 
You may also need space for a pencil 
and paper. A calculator is very useful. 
Base Game — All information 
on the holdings of players and 
railroads is available to everyone. 

Starting Money	
(1.2)
Distribute $2400 equally among the players. The chart in the side 
bar details the amounts. Place the remaining money in the Bank.
Buying the Private Companies ◈	
(1.3)
Divide the 6 private company certificates into groups as specified 
in the chart below—one group for each player. The players then 
bid to determine the order in which they select and purchase 
the groups. Each player must purchase one of these groups for the 
amount(s) specified in the chart. 
Starting with the banker and proceeding clockwise, each player 
must make a bid or pass. The minimum starting bid is $5 and each 
subsequent bid must be at least $5 more than the preceding bid. If 
you pass, you may no longer bid. When the last bidder passes, the 
high bidder chooses a group of private companies to purchase. The 
next highest bidder chooses next and so on until all of the groups 
have been purchased. If two or more players passed without bidding, 
they choose starting with the banker and proceeding clockwise. 
In addition to first choice of private companies, the highest bidder 
also gets the priority deal card and thus takes the first turn in the 
first stock round.
Example: Bob, Carol, Ted, and Alice are starting a game of 1830. 
Bob is the banker and starts the bidding for the private companies 
with a bid of $5. Carol who is sitting to his left passes, stating that 
she doesn’t care what she gets. Ted bids $10 and Alice bumps the bid 
to $20. Bob passes and Ted bids $25—Carol could not bid because 
she has already passed. 
Alice bids $30 and tells Ted that the B&O is a great railroad. 
Ted says he wants the CA; and if Alice wants the BO private 
company, he could have passed on his last bid and saved some 
money. So, thinking Alice wants the BO private, he passes and Alice 
wins the bid. Alice smiles, takes the CA and pays the bank $190—
her bid of $30 plus $160 for the CA. Stunned and shaking his head, 
Ted thinks for a moment, then takes the CS and the DH, paying 
$135. Bob happily pays his $5 bid, grabs the BO and shells out a 
further $220. Carol pays $130 for the SV and the MH. Bob must 
set a par value for the B&O, but he only has $375 left. He sets a par 
value of $100 and plans to collect his $30 in revenue from the BO 
and wait a round to operate if no other player invests in the B&O.
★ 1830 Classic — The process for 
buying the private companies is 
fairly involved and is described full 
detail in C-2.2 on p. 26.
	
Starting Money 
for Each Player
2 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1200
3 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $800
4 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $600
5 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $480
6 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $400
7 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $350*
* – Split $2450 for 7 players. 
Private Company Groups
 	
	 Number of Players 
	
6 / 7
Group 1 (Cost)	
SV+DH+CA ($250)	
SV+BO ($260)	
SV+MH ($130)	
SV+CS ($60)	
SV ($20)
Group 2 (Cost)	
CS+MH+BO ($370)	
CS+CA ($200)	
CS+DH ($110)	
DH ($70)	
CS ($60)
Group 3 (Cost)	
DH+MH ($180)	
MH ($110)	
DH ($70)
Group 4 (Cost)	
MH ($110)
Group 5 (Cost)	
Group 6 (Cost)	
Group 7 (Cost)	
Note — All private companies must be 
bought from the bank before shares in 
the railroads is put on sale.
Note — For full descriptions of the 
private companies, see pp. 46-47.

Sequence of Play Summary	
 (2.0)
After preparing to play, you should have money and one or two 
private companies. You are now ready to start the first stock round. 
Play proceeds as described below.
 First Stock Round:
The player with the priority deal card takes the first turn. 
Then proceeding clockwise, each player takes a turn or passes. 
The round ends when all players have passed consecutively. 
The player to the left of the last player to buy or sell gets the 
priority deal card.
On each of your turns, you may do any or all of the following 
(see 6.1 & 6.2, pp. 14-15, for sell & buy restrictions):
 Sell any of your stock certificates. 
 Buy 1 stock certificate in a corporation: either a president’s 
certificate (if available), or 1 other stock certificate.
 Sell any of your stock certificates. 
  First Operating Round:
♳ 1st Operating Round: There is at least 1 operating round.
● The private companies pay revenue.
● The railroad corporations operate. 
The railroad with the highest share value operates first, 
then the railroad with the next highest share value, 
and so on until all of the railroads have operated. For 
railroads with the same share value, see 7.0, p. 16. 
When a railroad operates, it:
➊ May construct or upgrade track.
➋ May place a token on a tile to create a new station.
➌ Must run its trains on available routes.
➍ Must collect revenue and adjust its share value.
➎ May buy new trains. 
 Next Stock Round: 
Same as 1st stock round.
  Next Operating Round(s): 
♳ 1st Operating Round: Same as described above
♴ 2nd Operating Round: Only if 3-trains were in play 
or retired at the end of the last stock round. 
Proceed as in 1st round.
♵ 3rd Operating Round: Only if 5-trains were in play at the 
end of the last stock round. Proceed as in 1st round.
• • • and so on until the game ends.
D The game ends when the bank runs out of money. Play until 
the next time a set of operation rounds ends. Keep track of any 
further money paid out on paper.
 Total your money and the value of your shares. 
 The wealthiest player wins. 
Note — There are a number of 
restrictions on buying and selling shares 
(see 5.0 for details). For example, you 
may not sell certificates in the 1st stock 
round, the president’s share must be the 
first bought for each railroad, etc.
★ 1830 Classic — The original 
1830 rules were ambiguous as to the 
sequencing of buy and selling within 
a turn. Sell-Buy-Sell is specified 
here, but Buy-Sell and Sell-Buy are 
both 1830 Classic special rules (see 
V-6.1, p. 31).
★ 1830 Classic — The game can 
also end if a player goes bankrupt 
(see C-2.4, p. 28).
Note — When you operate a railroad, 
the only thing you must do is run its 
trains to generate revenue. You may 
also lay track, place a station, and buy 
trains. You may be forced to buy a train 
if you have none.
Note — This sequence of play summay 
is a general overview of play. Details will 
be presented later in the rules.

	
Front	
	
 Back
 (3.0)
The game progresses through seven phases. The start of each 
new phase is triggered by the purchase of a new train type: 2-train, 
3-train, 4-train, 5-train, 6-train, diesel. Each phase has limitations 
and addtions as follows:
PHASE ONE	
(3.1)
Phase one starts at the beginning of the game and continues until 
all private companies have been purchased (see 1.3, p8). 
PHASE Two	
(3.2)
Phase two starts after the purchase of the private companies and 
continues until the purchase of the first 3-train.
a You may only play yellow track tiles.
a Each corporation may own up to four trains.
a Railroads may not purchase private companies.
a There is 1 operating round between stock rounds.
PHASE Three	
(3.3)
Phase three starts with the purchase of the first 3-train and 
continues until the purchase of the first 4-train. 
a You may play yellow and green track tiles.
a Each corporation may own up to four trains.
a Railroads may now purchase private corporations.
a There are 2 operating rounds between stock rounds­—starting 
after the stock round following the purchase of a 3-train.
PHASE Four	
(3.4)
Phase four starts with the purchase of the first 4-train and 
continues until the purchase of the first 5-train. 
a You may play yellow and green track tiles.
a Each corporation may own up to three trains.
a Railroads may purchase private companies.
a There are 2 operating rounds between stock rounds
a All 2-trains become obsolete and are removed from play.
PHASE FivE	
(3.5)
Phase five starts with the purchase of the first 5-train and 
continues until the purchase of the first 6-train. 
a You may play yellow, green, and brown track tiles.
a All private companies are closed and are removed from play.
a There are 3 operating rounds between stock rounds—starting 
after the stock round following the purchase of a 5-train.
a Use the greater value when running to off-board locations.
Note — The 7 phases represent the 
technological changes in railroading 
that occurred over time.
The Private Companies
	
 	
	
	
$220 / $30
Example: During phase 4, Big Bruce 
starts his turn in a 2nd operation round 
with a 3-train and $800. There is only 
one 4-train left to buy from the bank. 
Bruce buys the 4-train for $300. Because 
it is still phase 4, the train limit is 3. So, 
Bruce can and does buy the first 5-train 
for $450. At that point, phase 5 begins 
and the train limit drops to 2, and Bruce 
must get rid of a train. He places the 
3-train in the bank pool. 
All of the private companies are retired 
and removed from the game. This frees 
up the six diesels used in the base game. 
Note — A phase change occurs 
immediately following the purchase of 
the first train of a new type. So, any new 
limit on how many trains a railroad can 
own goes into effect after that train is 
purchased. This may result in the forced 
discard of a train by the railroad that 
just purchased a train.
Note ­— The 2-trains are on the backs of 
the 5-trains and three 6-trains. When 
the first 4-train is bought, all 2-trains 
are removed from play. They are flipped 
over and serve as 5- and 6-trains.
Example: Gerald buys the first available 
4-train. All of the 2-trains are removed 
from play. Gerald flips five of the 2-trains 
and they become the three 5-trains and 
the two 6-trains used in the base game.
↷
↷

PHASE Six	
(3.6)
Phase six starts with the purchase of the first 6-train and 
continues until the purchase of the first diesel train. 
a You may play yellow, green, brown, and gray track tiles.
a All 3-trains become obsolete and are removed from play.
a You may purchase diesel trains.
a There are 3 operating rounds between stock rounds.
a Use the greater value when running to off-board locations.
PHASE Seven	
(3.7)
Phase seven starts with the purchase of the first diesel train and 
continues until the end of the game. 
a You may play yellow, green, brown, and gray track tiles.
a All 4-trains become obsolete and are removed from play.
a There are 3 operating rounds between stock rounds.
a Use the greater value for running to red off-board locations.
(4.0)
During phases 3 and 4, a railroad may buy a private company 
at any time during its turn in an operating round. In addition, 
ownership of private companies may make possible activities 
otherwise not allowed. (See pp. 46-47).
Sale	
(4.1))
Private companies may be sold between players for any mutually 
agreed price at any time during the buyer’s or the seller’s turn of a 
stock round (other than the first).
Private companies may be bought by railroad corporations but 
not sold by them. This may not be done until the first 3-train has 
been bought. The price paid may not be less than half or more than 
twice the face value of the company and must be publicly declared. 
This action may be performed at any time during the buying 
corporation’s turn in an operating round.
Closure	
(4.2)
The BO private company is closed down immediately when the 
B&O railroad purchases its first train. The Mohawk & Hudson is 
closed if traded for a 10% share of the New York Central railroad 
as described on the left. All private companies are closed when 
the first 5-train is bought. A private 
company may not be closed voluntarily, 
nor may they be sold into the bank pool. 
Once closed, a private company ceases 
to exist and takes no further part in the 
game.
Private Company Effects
Schuylkill Valley — No effect. 
Champlain & St. Lawrence — A 
railroad owning the CS may lay a tile 
on the CS’s hex (B-20). This hex need 
not be connected to one of the railroad’s 
stations, and it need not be connected to 
any track at all. This tile placement may 
be performed in addition to the raillroad’s 
normal tile placement—on that turn only 
it may play two tiles. 
Delaware & Hudson — A railroad 
owning the DH may lay a track tile and 
a station token on the DH’shex (F-16). 
The mountain costs $120 as usual, but 
laying the token is free. This hex need 
not be connected to one of the railroad’s 
stations, and it need not be connect to any 
track at all. The tile layed does count as 
the owning railroad’s one tile placement 
for his turn. If the DH does not lay a 
station token on the turn it lays the tile on 
its starting hex, it must follow the normal 
rules when placing a station (i.e., it must 
have a legal train route to the hex). Other 
railroads may lay a tile on the DH starting 
hex subject to the ordinary rules, after 
which the DH special effects are no longer 
available.
Mohawk & Hudson — A player owning 
the MH may exchange it for a 10% share 
of NYC, provided he does not already 
hold 60% of the NYC shares and there 
is NYC shares available in the bank or 
the pool. The exchange may be made 
during the player’s turn of a stock round 
or between the turns of other players 
or railroads in either stock or operating 
rounds. This action closes the MH.
Camden & Amboy — The initial 
purchaser of the CA immediately receives 
a 10% share of PRR without further 
payment. This action does not close 
the CA. The PRR railroad will not be 
running at this point, but the share may 
be retained or sold subject to the ordinary 
rules of the game.
Baltimore & Ohio — The owner of 
the BO private company immediately 
receives the president’s certificate of the 
B&O railroad without further payment 
and immediately sets a par share value. 
The BO private company may not be 
sold to any corporation, and does not 
change hands if the owning player loses 
the presidency of the B&O. When the 
B&O railroad purchases its first train this 
private company is closed down.

 (5.0)
The stock market records and governs the value of the railroad 
corporations’ shares. This stock market is represented by a large grid 
of colored sections and a share value token for each corporation. 
Each corporation’s share value is equal to the number in the grid 
box occupied by that corporation’s share value token. 
SHARE OWNERSHIP	
(5.1)
A corporation’s initial offering consists of its share certificates that 
have never been owned by a player (i.e., purchased or received due 
to a private company’s special effects). Initial offering certificates 
are stacked on the appropriate spaces along the edge of the board. 
The value of a corporation’s initial offering share is always the 
corresponding recorded value on the par value chart. 
Shares sold back to the bank are placed in the bank pool. The 
value of a share in the bank pool is determined by the position of 
the corresponding share value token on the stock market.
Players may buy shares from the bank pool or the initial offering. 
Initial Share Value	
(5.2)
When a player acquires a president’s certificate from the initial 
offerinng, that player must choose an initial share value: $67, $71, 
$76, $82, $90, or $100. 
a Place the corporation’s share value token in a light green grid 
box on the stock market corresponding to the share value. If the 
token is placed into a grid box already containing one or more 
tokens, the newly arriving token is placed at the bottom of the 
stack of share value tokens that are already there. 
a Place the corporation’s par value marker on the corresponding 
space on the par value chart. It does not matter if other par 
value markers are already in that space. This par value is the 
cost of any further share purchases of shares that are in the 
initial offering (not in the bank pool). 
SHARE AND CERTIFICATE LIMITS	
(5.3)
As with any stock exchange, certificates are used in 1830 to 
represent each player’s ownership in the private companies and 
public railroad corporations. For a private company, a single 
certificate represents 100% ownership in the company. For a 
corporation, a single certificate represents 10% or 20% ownership. 
The president’s certificate in a corporation is two shares (20%), but 
counts as a single certificate. 
There are a number of limitations on certificate ownership:
a Individual Corporation ­Limit— Each player is normally 
limited to 5 certificates (50-60% of the shares) in a corporation. 
However, the position of the corporation’s share value token on 
the stock market may allow a player to exceed this limit (see 
5.4, p. 13). 
a Overall Limit — Each player is limited to a specific total 
number of certificates, including private company certificates. 
The certificate limit is determined by the number of players in 
the game (see chart in sidebar). 
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
6-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Example: During the first stock round, 3 
railroads were floated. The B&O started 
with a par value of $100. The PRR 
started with a par value of 67, while the 
C&O started at a par value of 82. 
Note — A number of boxes on the stock 
market contain arrows. These arrows 
indicate the share value token’s direction 
of movement if the token is required to 
move left or right and is unable to do so 
because of the edge of the market.

already at the top of a column, the token does not 
move. Tokens are moved in share value order, with the 
highest priced corporation’s token being moved first. 
a A corporation’s share value token moves right 1 grid 
box when that corporation declares a dividend. If it 
is already at the right end of a row the token moves 
up one grid box if possible. A share value token does 
not move up if it is already at 350. 
a A corporation’s share value token moves left 1 grid 
box when it fails to declare a dividend during a given 
operation round. If it is already at the left end of a 
row the token moves down one grid box if possible. 
Otherwise, it does not move.
If a share value token is moved into a box where there 
are one or more tokens, the newly arriving token is 
placed at the bottom of the stack of share value tokens 
that are already there. 
a Bank Pool Limit ­— There may never be more than 5 
certificates of any single corporation in the bank pool. A player 
may not sell shares if the number of certificates to be sold plus 
the number of certificates in the bank pool for that corporation 
exceeds 5. 
Conforming to Limits — A change of corporation presidency and 
movement of share value tokens between the different sections of 
the stock market may cause a player to be in violation of certificate 
limits. When this occurs, the player must sell sufficient shares and/
or certificates to conform to the limits during the player’s next turn 
in a stock round (which may be after a series of operatiiong rounds). 
Special Stock Market Effects	
(5.4)
If a share value token is in a yellow, orange, or brown grid box, 
there are some special effects.
a Certificates of any corporation whose share value token is in a 
yellow, orange, or brown grid box do not count against a player’s 
overall certificate limit. 
a The shares of any corporation whose share value token is in an 
orange or brown grid box may be held in excess of the individual 
corporation certificate limit (60%).
a During your turn in a stock round, you may purchase any 
number of certificates from the bank pool of one corporation 
whose share value token is in a brown grid box. This purchase 
counts as your one certificate purchase for the turn.
SHARE value token Movement	
(5.5)
Share value tokens move from grid box to grid box in a number 
of different ways.
a A corporation’s share value token moves down when a player 
sells one or more of that corporation’s shares. It moves down 1 
grid box for each share sold. If it is already at the bottom of a 
column, the token does not move.
a A corporation’s share value token moves up 1 grid box if all of 
its shares are owned by players the end of a stock round. If it is 
Example: In a 6 player game, Pete ends his 
turn in a stock round with:
3 B&O certificates 
(the president’s certificate and 2 others)
4 PRR certificates 
(value token in a yellow grid box)
8 C&O certificates 
(value token in a orange grid box)
5 Erie certificates 
(the president’s certificate and 4 others)
Pete has 20 certificates A and the overall 
limit in a 6 player game is only 11. However, 
the PRR and C&O certificates do not count 
for the overall limit since their tokens are in 
yellow and orange grid boxes. And, Pete can 
exceed the individual corp limit of 5 for the 
C&O because its token is in the orange. 
At the end of round, the players collectively 
own all of the shares of each of the 4 
railroads. So, each of the 4 share value tokens 
goes up one. Then there are 2 operating 
rounds in which each of the 4 railroads issues 
dividends—each token moves two to the 
right. When the next stock round begins, the 
PRR is in a gray grid box and C&O is in a 
yellow B. Pete is over both the overall and 
the individual limit for the C&O. Pete must 
sell stock on his turn to satisfy the limits. 
Kurt has the priority deal card, so he buys 
& sells before Pete. Kurt has to sell 2 shares of 
the PRR C, which drops the share value back 
into yellow. 
On his turn, Pete sells 2 C&O certificates 
D and the share value token moves back into 
the orange. Pete is back under the limits.
Note — If a corporation has 5 or more 
certificates still in the initial offering 
(i.e., it has not floated), it can’t generate 
revenue during an operating round. 
So, its share value token will not move 
during operating rounds for any reason.

Stock Rounds	
 (6.0)
A stock round is a series of turns in which all players have the 
opportunity to buy and sell share certificates. On your turn, you 
may sell any number of certificates, but you may only buy one 
certificate. 
A stock round only ends when all players have consecutively 
passed and thus declined the opportunity to buy or sell. So, a stock 
round keeps going as long as players continually participate. Any 
number of certificates may eventually be bought—one at a time. 
You are not precluded from further buying and selling just 
because you have passed. As long as a player bought or sold after 
you passed, you are free to buy and sell on your subsequent turn. 
When a stock round ends, the player to the left of the last player 
that bought or sold shares is given the priority deal card. That 
player takes the first turn in the next stock round. If no one buys or 
sells in a stock round, the priority deal card does not change hands.
 Stock Round:
The player with the priority deal card takes the first turn—this 
is usually the player to the left of the player that last bought or 
sold in the previous stock round. 
 Then proceeding clockwise, each player takes a turn or passes. 
The stock round ends when all players have passed 
consecutively.
On each of your turns, you may do any or all of the following:
 Sell any of your certificates. 
 Buy 1 certificate in a corporation of your choice: either a 
president’s certificate (if available), or 1 other certificate if 
the president’s certificate is unavailable.
 Sell any of your certificates. 
Stock Sales	
(6.1)
Any certificates you sell are placed in the bank pool and may be 
bought by other players in their respective turns. 
 Certificates may not be sold in the first stock round.
 When you sell more than one certificate of the same type stock, 
the share value does not drop until after you have sold all of the 
certificates. Thus, you receive the same amount of money for 
each certificate.
 When you sell certificates of more than one corporation in the 
same turn, you choose the order in which they are sold.
 If you sell certificates in a corporation, you may not later buy 
certificates in that corporation in the same stock round.
 You may not sell shares if the number of certificates to be 
sold, plus the number of certificates in the bank pool for that 
corporation, exceeds five.
 You may not sell the president’s certificate in a corporation. 
However, while selling your own shares, if your share holdings 
in your president’s corporation are exceeded by another player’s 
holdings, you must exchange your president’s certificate for 
2 other certificates from the appropriate player.
★ 1830 Classic — The original 
1830 rules were ambiguous as to the 
sequencing of buy and selling within 
a turn. Sell-Buy-Sell is specified 
here, but Buy-Sell and Sell-Buy are 
both 1830 Classic special rules 
(see C-1.2, p. 25).
Note — There is no change of control 
just because another player’s holding 
is equal to the president’s. You can lose 
your majority of shares due to another 
player purchasing shares or due to you 
selling stock.
Note — Remember, “railroad 
corporations” are also referred to as just 
“corporations” and as just “railroads” 
depending upon the context.
Example: Gerald is holding two 10% 
certificates of the B&O valued each at 
$100 and sells them both. He collects 
$200 from the bank and places the 
certificates in the bank pool. The B&O 
share value token on the stock market is 
moved downward two spaces to indicate 
the new value of $82 per share for B&O 

 If your share holdings exceed the limits on certificate ownership, 
you must sell sufficient certificates to conform to the limits 
during your next turn in a stock round. See 5.3, pp. 12-13.
 Note that the owner of the CA private company receives a free 
share (10%) of the PRR. This share cannot be sold until the 
president’s certificate has been purchased, thereby setting the 
value of the PRR share. 
Stock Purchases	
(6.2)
During your turn in a stock round, you may buy an available 
certificate from either the initial offering or the bank pool. 
 Shares in a corporation cannot be bought by a player if that 
player has sold share(s) of the corporation earlier in the same 
stock round.
 The first purchased share certificate in a corporation must be the 
president’s certificate. This certificate signifies that the owner 
is responsible for all decisions concerned with the railroad’s 
operations such as construction of track, planning of routes, 
payment of dividends, etc.
 When you buy a president’s certificate (20%) from the bank, you 
must choose an initial share value: $67, $71, $76, $82, $90, or 
$100. You must pay twice this value for the certificate. This is 
the corporation’s par value. It is recorded on the stock market 
and the par value chart. See section 5.1 (p12) for more details.
When the owner of the BO private company takes possession of 
the B&O president’s certificate, he must follow the same process 
outlined for buying a president’s certificate, except that it does not 
need to be paid for.
Floating a Corporation	
(6.3)
Once 60% of the shares in a corporation have been bought from 
the initial offering, the corporation is “floated.” It begins operating 
in the next operating round. Shares sold back to the bank pool still 
Note — For each corporation, the 
number of tokens available and the 
number and type of trains owned must 
be visible on the company charter. Its 
money may be kept in a stack and the 
amount held need not be divulged!
Example: During the second stock round, 
Al has the priority deal card and buys the 
president’s certificate (2 shares) of the PRR. 
He immediately sets a par value of $82. 
Kurt has the PRR share he received for 
the CA (private company), and was hoping 
to take control of the PRR. He buys a share 
of the PRR giving each players 2 shares. 
He complains that the new president has 
devalued his shares since the par value could 
have been $100. He asks that Al stop buying 
PRR stock and let him take his place as PRR 
president­. Kurt threatens to dump his stock.
Al ignores him and buys a 3rd share of the 
PRR. Scowling, Kurt sells both of his share 
for a total of $164. The stock goes into the 
bank pool and the stock value drops to $71. 
(Note that the par value for the PRR does not 
change, AND the PRR’s token goes under the 
C&O token already there.) 
On his next turn, Al buys a PRR share for 
$82 from the bank and floats the PRR—his 
4 shares (40%) and the 2 shares in the bank 
pool (20%) mean that 60% of the stock has 
been bought from the bank. Note that Al 
could have bought a PRR share from the 
bank pool for only $71, but that would not 
have floated the railroad.
At the end of the stock round, the PRR 
receives $820 for its treasury based upon its 
par value of $82, not its share value of $71.
Note ­— The initial capital is always 
equal to the fully subscribed share value 
of the corporation (even though the 
shares may not yet be fully taken up).
count towards the 60%. Shares obtained via ownership 
of private companies (BO, CA, and MH) count 
towards the 60%.
A corporation’s president is the player owning that 
corporation’s president’s certificate. At the end of the 
stock round in which a corporation floats, its president 
receives:
a The corporation’s charter,
a The corporation’s tokens as specified on its charter.
a The corporation’s starting money (initial capital), 
which is ten times its par value as recorded on the 
par value chart. 
Place the tokens and money in the corporation’s 
“treasury” in the appropriate positions on its charter. 
It is very important that a corporation’s funds be kept 
strictly separate from the player’s own reserve of cash. 
Consequently, a corporation’s funds must always be 
kept on its charter. 

Change of President	
(6.4)
As a corporation’s president, you only remain president as long 
as your share total in that corporation is not exceeded by another 
player. When a player exceeds your share total in a corporation in 
which you are the president, take these steps immediately:
a You give him the corporation’s president’s certificate, charter, 
trains, tokens, and money.
a He gives you two of his certificates for that corporation.
a If this exchange results in you holding more certificates than 
allowed (see 5.3, p. 12), you must sell an appropriate number of 
shares—immediately if it is your turn, or on your next turn if not.
If multiple players exceed your share total, and they each have the 
same number of shares, the new president is the player closest to 
you going in a clockwise direction. 
A president’s certificate can never end up in the bank pool. 
The shares represented by the certificate can be sold to the bank 
pool, but an exchange of the presidency must be made before the 
“common” shares appear in the pool. 
Note — By selling shares, you can 
relinquish your position as president 
in any situation where the necessary 
amount of shares can be sold (i.e., no 
more than 50% of the total shares will 
appear in the bank pool), and provided 
there is another stockholder holding at 
least 20%. In effect he announces the 
sale of his stock, exchanges certificates 
with the new president, and then places 
the ordinary certificates in the bank 
pool. Note that a presidency cannot 
be transferred when there is no other 
stockholder holding more than 20%. 
Example: In a 5-player game, Pete starts 
the stock round holding 13 certificates 
(the max). He is the president of the 
B&O, with 3 certificates (4 shares: the 
president’s certificate and 2 others for a 
total of 4 shares). Ron also has 4 shares/
certificates in the B&O. Hoping to shake 
things up, Morgan sells a share of the 
B&O on his first turn. Next in turn 
order, Ron buys that share. Ron now 
has more shares than Pete and becomes 
the new president of the B&O. They 
exchange the president’s certificate for 2 
other certificates, and Ron gets control 
of the B&O charter, tokens, trains, and 
cash. 
Example: At the start of an operating 
round, 4 railroads have the same share 
value of $82. The Erie will operate first 
because it is furthest to the right. Then, 
the C&O because it is next furthest to the 
right and is on top of the PRR. Then, the 
PRR operates and finally the B&O. This 
order might change if one of the railroad’s 
share value changes due to share sales 
resulting from a forced purchase of a 
train (see 7.6.2, p. 23).
Operating Rounds	
(7.0)
At the beginning of an operating round, each private company 
(not yet retired) operates. This consists of paying its owner the 
revenue indicated on its certificate and in Table T-05.
 Next, each railroad corporation (or just railroad in this section) 
that has floated takes a turn. The railroad with the highest share 
value takes the first turn and then the next highest valued railroad 
takes its turn, and so on until each floated railroad has had a turn.
♳ Sometimes the share value tokens of 2 or more floated railroads 
are in the same grid block of the stock market. In this case, 
the railroad whose token is on top takes a turn first, then the 
railroad with the next token down, and so on.
♳ If 2 or more floated railroads have the same share value but their 
share value tokens are in different columns, the railroad whose 
token is furthest to the right takes a turn first.
♳ If 2 or more floated railroads have the same share value and 
their share value tokens are in the same column, the railroad 
whose token is furthest up takes a turn first.
Each railroad is operated by the player that owns its president’s 
certificate. Each railroad may lay track, earn revenue, and purchase 
trains. In addition, each railroad must decide each operation 
round whether to distribute its earnings as dividends among the 
stockholders (raising the railroad’s share value) or to retain its 
earnings to finance further corporate activities (thus lowering its 
share value).
During the later stages of the game, the scope of railroad 
operations expands steadily due to several factors. The available 
trains can travel a greater distance and thus can earn more revenue 
per turn. The available track tiles are more complex, resulting in 
more elaborate routes and which also raise city revenue values.

Note — Each railroad has a number of 
round “tokens” with its corporate logo 
on it (see pp. 4-5).
Pays
Schuylkill Valley (SV) . . . . . . . . . .$5 
Champlain & St.Lawrence (CS) $10
Delaware & Hudson (DH) . . . . .$15
Mohawk & Hudson (MH) . . . . .$20
Camden & Amboy (CA) . . . . . . $25
Baltimore & Ohio (BO) . . . . . . . $30
Note — For the purposes of turn order, 
if a railroad’s share value changes for a 
railroad that has not yet operated, the 
new share value is used. 
Note — Purchases must be made with 
available money. Credit is not allowed. 
For example, the money required to 
place a token or lay a tile in a mountain 
hexagon must be available in the 
treasury. Revenues are not available until 
step #4 of the turn, and thus cannot be 
spent on track construction or tokens 
until next turn.
Note — Constructing track is optional. 
You are never required to place or 
upgrade track. This applies even to 
the Erie and NYC railroads where no 
tile has yet been laid in the hexagon 
containing their home station.
1830+ — Some of the 1830+ 
scenarios require that the 1830+ 
board be modified by placing 
“board tiles” on certain hexes at the 
start of the game. Treat these tiles as 
if they are part of the board.
Railroad Operation Sequence	
(7.1)
Each railroad’s operating turn consists of the following activities 
performed in the order given: 
Special – At the start of a railroad’s first turn of operation, it places one of 
its tokens in its starting city to create its home station (see 7.3.1, p. 20).
1 Construct Track – You may place a new tile on the board or 
upgrade a tile already on the board. (7.2, pp. 17-19)
2 Place a Station – You may buy a new token and place it on the 
board as a new station if desired. (7.3, p. 20)
3 Run Trains – You run your trains on available routes. (7.4, p. 21)
4 Collect Revenue — You collect and distribute revenue earned by 
running your trains. You pay the revenue as dividends or reinvest 
it in the railroad (place the money in the treasury on the charter).
5 Purchase Trains — You may buy a new train or trains, or you 
may be forced to by a new train. (7.6, p. 23)
Once phase 3 starts, a railroad may buy a private company at any 
time during its operating round turn. Ownership of certain private 
companies may make possible special activities (see pp. 46-47).
The number of operation rounds changes in the later stages of 
the game, when first two and then three operating rounds are 
performed between each stock round. All these changes are directly 
linked to the types of trains in use (see 3.0, pp. 10-11).
Construct Track	
(7.2)
The game board features a hexagonal grid on a map of the 
northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. You may 
lay hexagonal track tiles on this grid to construct railroad routes 
joining the various cities portrayed on the map.
Hexes on the Board — Each hex on the board has a color that 
indicates what type of track tile (if any) may be placed on that hex:
 Gray hexes contain track and cities at the beginning of the game. 
You may not place tiles on gray hexes. A
 Red hexes contain track representing connections to cities 
outside of the board. You may not place tiles on red hexes. B
 Yellow hexes each contain 1 or 2 cities, and some also contain 
track. You may only place green tiles on yellow hexes. C
 Tan hexes can contain cities and/or track. You may only place 
yellow tiles on tan hexes. D
Yellow and tan hexes can also contain rivers, inlets, and 
mountains. Each of these features adds a cost to placing a tile (i.e., 
an additional $80 or $120 as printed on the board).
Track Tiles — The color of each track tile indicates in which phase 
(see 3.0, p. 10-11) it can be used and where it may be placed.
 Yellow tiles are available from phase 2 on—can only be placed 
on tan hexes. 
 Green tiles are available from phase 3 on—can only be placed on 
yellow hexes and can only upgrade yellow tiles. 
 Brown tiles are available from phase 5 on—upgrade green tiles.
 Gray tiles are available from phase 6 on—upgrade brown tiles.
Each tile has other restrictions on placement (see 7.2.1 & 7.2.2).
access 
license
access 
license
Tokens

	
1 large	
1 large city	
2 large 	
	
city	
w/ 2 station circles	
cities
	
2 small	
1 small	
Off-board 
	
cities	
city	
area
Construct Track Example
A – yellow tile placed on a hex without a tile 
B – yellow tile placed on a hex without a tile 
 A and B each has a terrain cost of $80 3
C – green tile placed on a yellow hex 
 without a tile—both labeled “B” 7
D – yellow tile upgraded to a green tile
E – yellow tile placed on a hex without a tile 
★ 1830 Classic — 1 The original 
1830 rules were ambiguous as to 
exactly how “an extension of a 
route” was defined. More restrictive 
interpretations are detailed in 
V-7.7, p. 33.
1830+ — Gray tiles are used 
in some of the 1830+ scenarios 
and other 18xx games. Gray tiles 
upgrade brown tiles.
1830+ — Some 18xx games and 
1830+ scenarios use sets of tiles 
that expand the 1830 Classic tile set. 
The additional tiles needed for the 
scenarios are detailed on p. 48. 
Note — 1 The railroad need not use 
the new track segment or the tile when 
it operates.
Cities 
There are two types of cities on the game board and certain tiles—
large cities and small cities. A large city is represented by one or 
more large white circles connected to each other, while a small city 
is represented by a small black dot on the board and a crossbar on 
the tiles. Some hexes and tiles have 2 separate cities: for example, the 
“oo” & “ny” (New York City) hexes and tiles.
The red hexes represent off-board cities and areas. 
Stations 
When a railroad places one of its tokens on a large city circle, that 
token becomes a station for that railroad (see 7.3). 
Laying Track Tiles 
When it operates, a railroad may do one and only one of the 
following:
 Place one tile into a hex not already containing a tile. 
 Upgrade (i.e., replace) a tile already on the board, and return that 
tile to the stacks of available tiles.
Placing Track Tiles 	
(7.2.1)
These restrictions apply to tile placement:
1 A railroad placing a tile must be able to trace a legal train route 
(see 7.4.2, p. 21) of any length from one of its stations to one of the 
track segments on the tile placed. 
Exceptions: Regardless of other connections—
 A railroad owning the CS may place a tile on the CS hex (B-20). 
 A railroad owning the DH may place a tile on the DH hex (F-16). 
 The NYC may place an #A7 (57) yellow tile on the hex containing its 
home station D (E-19). 
 The Erie may place a #oo2 (59) green tile on the hex containing its 
home station (assuming green tiles are available) (E-11).
Using the normal rules, any railroad can place a tile on a hex 
listed as an exception. 
2 A railroad may not place a tile such that a track segment on the 
tile runs off the hex grid, terminates against the blank side of a 
grey hexagon, or terminates against a solid red hex side (i.e., a 
lake, inlet, or river). 

Construct Track 
Example Continued
F – yellow tile upgraded to a green tile 
G – green tile upgraded to a brown tile—
both labeled “B” 4 5 6
H – yellow tile upgraded to a green tile, 
 at no cost 5
I – yellow tile placed on a hex without a tile 
 at a terrain cost of $120
J – may not be upgraded, the only upgrade 
 has track running off of each edge and 
 track may not run out to the east 1 
I
J
3 For most hexes, there is no cost to place a tile. But if a hex 
contains mountains and the notation “$120,” a railroad placing a 
tile on that hex must pay $120 to the bank. If a hex contains water 
and the notation “$80,” a railroad placing a tile on that hex must 
pay $80 to the bank. The home station hex for the Erie contains 
no cost notation, so it costs nothing to place a tile in that hex.
4 A railroad may not place a tile on a hex containing a private 
company owned by a player. A railroad may place a tile on a 
hex containing a private company that is closed or owned by a 
railroad (see pp. 46-47).
5 A railroad may only place a tile on a hex if the tile and hex have 
the same number and size of cities (e.g., in the example below, J 
is a single city even though it has two circles; you can tell by the 
outline that connects them). 
6 Only yellow tiles may be placed on tan hexes. 
7 Only green tiles may be placed on yellow hexes. If the hex has a 
label (OO, B, or NY), the tile must have a matching label. 
Upgrading Track Tiles	
(7.2.2)
These restrictions apply to tile upgrades:
1 A railroad upgrading a tile must be able to trace a legal train 
route (see 7.4.2, p. 21) of any length from one of its stations to 
one of the track segments on the tile upgraded. 
2 A railroad may not upgrade a tile such that a track segment on 
the new tile runs off the hex grid, terminates against the blank 
side of a grey hexagon, or terminates against a solid red hex side 
(i.e., a lake, inlet, or river). 
3 All track segments on the replaced tile must be maintained in 
the same orientations on the new tile.
4 When a tile is replaced, all stations on the replaced tile must be 
placed on the new tile with the same connections as before. 
5 A railroad may only use certain tiles to upgrade each specific 
tile. In addition, only green tiles may upgrade yellow tiles, only 
brown tiles may upgrade green tiles, and only gray tiles may 
upgrade brown tiles. 
6 If a tile to be upgraded has a label (OO, B, or NY), the label on 
the new tile must match the label on the tile to be upgraded.
7There is no cost to upgrade a tile, regardless of the terrain. 
Tan Hex	
Yellow Tile #s
0 cities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A1, A2, A3
1 small city . . . . . . . . . . . . A4, A5, A6
2 small cities . . . . . . . . . . . . A10-A14
1 large city . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A7
Yellow Hex	
Green Tile #s
2 small cities (oo) . . . . . . . . . . . . oo2
Baltimore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . bb1
Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . bb1
New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ny1
Yellow 	
Green 
Tile (#)	
A1 (7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . B1-B3,B8-B11
A2 (8) . . . . B2, B5, B8, B9, B12-B14
A3 (4) . . . . . B3, B10, B11, B13, B14
A4 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A5 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none
A6 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A7 (4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . B35, B37 
A10 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A11 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A12 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A13 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
A14 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . none 
Green Tile(#)	Brown Tile Upgrade
B1 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C5, C6
B2 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C7, C8
B3 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C9
B5 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C9, C10
B8 (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . C1, C5, C7, C9
B9 (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . C2, C5, C8, C9
B10 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C2, C6, C7
B11 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C1, C6, C8
B12 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C3, C7, C8
B13 (1) . . . . . . . . . . C4, C8, C9, C10
B14 (1) . . . . . . . . . . C4, C7, C9, C10
B35 (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C15
B37 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C15
oo2 (2) . . . . oo10-oo12, oo15,oo16
bb1 (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . bb5
ny1 (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ny5

Place a Station	
(7.3)
When a railroad places one of its tokens on a large city circle, that 
token becomes a station for that railroad. A station has two effects:
 Stations allow a city to be a base for its railroad’s routes (see 7.4.2)
 Stations can block other railroads’ routes (see 7.3.3).
Placing a Home station	
(7.3.1)
At the beginning of a railroad’s first turn of operation, it must 
place a token in its starting city circle to create its home station. 
There is no cost to perform this action.
Placing Additional Stations	
(7.3.2)
During its turn in an operating round, a railroad may place one 
token in a city circle to create a station. This may be in addition to 
the placement of a home station. The following restrictions apply:
 The railroad must be able to trace a legal train route (see 7.4.2, 
p. 21) of any length from one of its other stations to the city in 
which the token is being placed. 
 A railroad using the 
effects of the DH private company (see pp. 46-47). 
 The first additional station costs $40; later ones cost $100 each.
 The railroad may only place a token in an empty city circle.
 The railroad may not create a station on a hex already containing 
one of its stations.
 A railroad’s station placement is limited by the number of tokens 
it has. 
 A railroad may not place a token in a city if it would block 
the creation of the home station of a railroad that has not yet 
operated.
 The Erie home station may be placed on either city in the yellow 
Note — Starting cities are noted on the 
board by the presence of the railroad 
logos in the city’s hex.
Note — A railroad’s route may not pass 
through a city that has other railroads’ 
stations in all of its circles.
Note — The Erie does not have to place 
a tile in its starting hex. Similarly, the 
NYC does not have to place a tile in its 
starting hex.
Note — Wealth is the objective of the 
game, and railroad revenue is one of the 
principal methods of gaining wealth. It 
follows that the planning of stations & 
routes and the provision of trains to run 
them is of paramount significance to 
the strategy of this game.
hex marked with the Erie logo. After 
a tile has been placed there, no other 
railroad may place a station there 
until the Erie has placed its home 
station. 
Blocking Routes (7.3.3) 
As long as a city has an empty circle, any 
railroad may run a route (see 7.4.2, p. 21) 
through that city.
Once all of the circles in a city have 
stations, only a railroad with one of those 
stations run a route through that city. 
However any railroad may use the city 
as a starting or ending city for a route as 
long as other normal route requirements 
are met (see 7.4.2, p. 21).
Example: The B&O can place a station 
at A. It cannot place at B because it 
does not connect to that city with track. 
It cannot place at C because the PRR 
station at F blocks the route. And, it 
may not place at E because “a route may 
not reverse at a junction.” Both Gs have 
junctions that block the route to E. 
The PRR can place a station at E or 
C. It cannot place a station at A or at 
B—the B&O station at H blocks it. In 
addition, the PRR cannot place a station 
at D. A railroad may not have more 
than one station on the same hex and the 
PRR already has one at F. 

Example: The B&O’s best run connects 
7 cities: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. It cannot 
connect 2 without backtracking and 
the Deep South adds more revenue than 
Richmond. The total revenue would be 
270 = 60+50+10+30+50+30+40. But 
you would need a diesel to run it.
Example: The PRR’a best run connects 5 cities: 2 3 4 
5 6. It cannot connect 1 because it would have to back 
track or drop 2 from the route. It cannot connect 6 7 
because the B&O blocks them. The total revenue would 
be 200 = 50+30+10+50+60.
Note — Red (hex-like) areas represent 
off board cities and may be included as 
the starting city and/or ending city of a 
route. However, these red areas may not 
form part of the middle of a route (i.e., 
they cannot be run through). 
Note — Trains are purchased at the 
end of a turn, so a train may not run 
on the turn it is purchased. Therefore, a 
railroad can never run a train on its first 
operating turn.
Note — Initially, the required station 
on a route is very likely to be the 
railroad’s home station. But as the game 
progresses, railroads may operate from 
other stations which provide for more 
lucrative routes.
Note —Separate cities in the same hex 
are considered as different “cities” for 
route purposes. For example, a route 
may enter the top of the New York hex 
from the northeast, exit to the north-
west, and then enter the bottom New 
York from the west to score both cities.
Note — Trains may not be combined 
or “double headed” to obtain a longer 
route.
Run Trains	
(7.4)
Each train owned by a railroad may run once during its operating 
turn. A train runs on a route (see 7.4.2 below). That route must 
include of a series of two or more cities that are connected by track. 
The train generates revenue based upon the values of the cities on 
that route. 
When declaring the routes for a railroad’s trains, the combination 
of routes with the highest revenue must be chosen. 
For the purposes of running trains and choosing routes, “city” 
refers to a large city, a small city, or an off-board red hex. 
Running a Train	
(7.4.1)
On each train there is a “D” or a large number ranging from 2 
to 6. The number represents the maximum number of cities that 
the train may have on its route when it runs. A train with a “D” is a 
diesel and it has no limit on the maximum number of cities on its 
route when it runs.
A train may run a shorter route than the maximum allowed if the 
“highest total revenue” requirement is met or when a maximum 
route does not exist. However, when a train runs it must have at 
least two cities on its route.
Routes	
(7.4.2)
A route for a railroad is a continuous segment of track that 
connects to at least one city containing one of the railroad’s 
stations. The following factors apply:
a A route must be continuous. A route may not reverse at a 
junction. A route may not change track at a crossover. A route 
may not use the same section of track more than once.
a A route may begin or end at any city. However, a route may 
not pass through a red off board area or a large city if all of 
its circles contain stations belonging to other 
railroads.
a The number of cities on a route includes all of 
the cities that the route runs through or to. A 
route may not skip a city that it connects.
a A route that enters a city on one track may exit 
the city on any other track. 
a A route may include different sections of track 
on the same tile.
a A route may not include the same city more 
than once, but it may include different cities in 
the same hex.
When a railroad has two or more trains each 
runing a route, none of those routes may use the 
same track. However, the routes may meet or cross 
at cities, and/or use two separate tracks in the same 
hex.

I 
J
Note — If after declaring a route for a 
train, another player can demonstrate 
another route that earns a higher 
revenue, the highest revenue route must 
be taken. However, players are never 
required to point out a higher possible 
revenue than claimed. 
Example: Consider a railroad where the 
president owns 50% of the shares, 30% 
remains unsold in the bank, and 20% is 
in the bank pool. If the railroad’s revenue 
is $50 and a dividend is declared, the 
player holding 50% receives $25, $10 goes 
into the railroad’s treasury, and the other 
$15 remains in the bank. 
Note — Revenue from a private 
company owned by a railroad is not 
available for dividends but is paid into 
the railroad’s treasury. 
Example: In this example, the tracks tiles have been laid as shown below. 
In addition, the B&O home station is in hex F. A route is indicated by 
the letters of the hexes it passes through. Thus, FED starts in F and passes 
through E to end in D. In all cases a route is the same in either direction—
FED is identical to DEF. (The revenue shown in parentheses.) [Illegal 
routes are shown in brackets.] Unless otherwise indicated, each train 
scores its maximum number of cities. Before reading #5 below, see if you 
can find 7 different legal 3 city routes for a 3-train. 
Note that the EDA route is illegal because red areas cannot be in 
the middle of a route. If B was a straight track connecting A and C, 
DABCFED would be illegal—the same red area cannot be both the 
beginning and end of a route.
1) Legal routes if operating one 2-train: FE (80), 
FCBE (80), and FIJ (60). 
2) Illegal routes if operating one 2-train: 
FCG [reversing direction at a junction], 
FCBAD [changing track at a crossover], and 
DE, EH, or EBCG [no station on route]. 
3) Legal routes if operating two 2-trains: 
any two of the routes in #1. 
4) Legal routes if operating three 2-trains: 
all three of the routes in #1. 
5) Legal routes if operating one 3-train: EFIJ (90), 
EBCFIJ (90), GCBEF (100), FED (110), 
FEH (100), FCBED (110), or FCBEH (100). 
6) Illegal routes if operating a 3-train, 
in addition to those demonstrated in #2: 
FEBCF [scoring same city twice on same route], 
and EFE [using same track section twice plus 
scoring same city twice]. 
7) Legal routes if operating two 3-trains: EFIJ (90) 
and either of FCBED (110) or FCBEH (100); 
GCBEF (100) and FIJ (60)­—the second 
3-train can only operate as a 2-train; 
EBCFIJ (90) and either of DEF (110) or 
HEF (100); FCBED (110) and FEH (100); or 
FCBEH (100) and FED (110). 
8) Illegal routes if operating two 3-trains in addition 
to those already demonstrated: FED and FEH 
[separately legal, but illegal in combination 
because they both use the same track—EF]. 
For each train combination, the chart below lists one 
set of routes that yields the best revenue possible:
Trains: Revenue	
Best Revenue Routes
One 2-train: $80........................................................FE
Two 2-trains: $160........................................FE, FCBE 
Three 2-trains: $220...............................FE, FCBE, FIJ 
Two 2-trains, one 3-train: $250........ FCBE, FIJ, FED 
One 2-train, two 3-trains: $270.....FIJ, FEH. FCBED 
Two 3-trains: $210................................. FCBED, FEH 
One 3-train, one 4-train: $220.......... FEH, DEBCFIJ 
Collect Revenue	
(7.5)
Each city has a revenue value. When a train runs, it generates 
revenue equal to the sum of the revenue values of all of the cities 
(a minimum of 2) on its route. Each of the red off-board areas has 
two values. Initially, use the lower values. After the first 5-train is 
purchased, use the larger values.
Once a railroad has run all of its trains, add the totals of all of the 
runs together to arrive at the revenue for this railroad for the turn. 
The president of that railroad then decides how this total revenue 
will be paid out. It can either be paid out to the stock holders 
(as dividends) or to the railroad itself (added to the corporate 
treasury).
Dividends
If a railroad pays dividends, its total revenue is paid out to the 
stockholders (10% for each 10% share held). Shares in the bank pool 
pay dividends to the corporate treasury. No payments are made for 
unsold initial offering shares.
Payments to the Railroad
If no dividend is paid, add the revenue to the railroad’s treasury. 
Share Value Adjustments
A railroad’s share value increases when it pays dividends and 
decreases when it does not pay dividends (see 5.5, p. 13).

Purchase Trains ◈	
(7.6)
At the end of its operating turn, a railroad has the option to 
purchase trains from the bank.
a Trains must be purchased one at a time.
a If the railroad already meets or exceeds the current phase’s limit 
on the number of trains owned, it may not purchase a train.
a A train may be purchased from the bank, the open market, or 
another railroad.
a Trains must be purchased from the bank at face value (on the 
train card) in order of increasing size. The smallest, the 2-trains, 
are bought first. When all these have been sold the 3-trains 
become available, then the 4-trains, etc. (Exception: see diesels 
below.)
a The open market consists of trains discarded by railroads (see 
7.6.1 below). These trains may be purchased for face value (on 
the train card). The payment goes to the bank. 
a A train may be purchased from another railroad for any 
price that is mutually agreed to by the president(s) of the two 
railroads involved. The entire transaction must be completed 
during the purchasing railroad’s turn. A railroad is not required 
to buy a train from another railroad. A railroad may buy 
another railroad’s last train. The minimum price for a train 
purchased from another railroad is $1.
a Diesels — Once the first 6-train is bought, the diesel (“D”) 
trains may be purchased in addition to any 6 trains still in the 
bank. A diesel train costs $1100. But, the price is only $800 if 
the railroad “trades-in” a 4-, 5-, or 6- train. The exchanged train 
(if not obsoleted by the exchange) is placed in the open market.
Excess Trains	
(7.6.1)
Until a 4-train is purchased, a railroad may own a maximum of 
four trains. When the first 4-train is purchased, that maximum 
number of trains is reduced to three. When the first 5-train is 
purchased, that maximum number of trains is reduced to two. 
If a railroad finds itself with an excess train, the president must 
choose a train to discard. A discarded train goes to the open market 
and its railroad receives no payment for it. If multiple railroads 
must discard at the same time, they discard in order of their share 
values—with the highest valued railroad deciding first.
Forced Train Purchases	
(7.6.2)
If a railroad with a legal train route connecting at least 2 cities 
has no train at the end of its operating turn, it must immediately 
purchase a train.
a If the railroad has enough money, it must buy a train using 
the normal rules—including buying a train from a another 
railroad.
a If a railroad cannot buy a train with the monies in its treasury, 
and the combined monies of it and its president are enough to 
purchase the least expensive train between the bank and the 
open market, it must do so. 
	
	
Maximum 
Trigger	 # of Trains
	
2-train	
	
3-train	
	
4-train	
	
5-train	
	
5+	
—	
Note — Trains must be purchased one 
at a time because the purchase of a train 
may trigger a phase change. Thus, if a 
railroad wishes to purchase more than 
one train, it would purchase one, resolve 
any phase change, purchase another 
one, and so on. If the purchase of a 
train triggers a phase change and that 
change reduces the number of trains a 
corporation may own, the railroad may 
find itself in a position where it is not 
able to purchase another train.
Example: A railroad owning a 3- and 
4-train may buy the first 5-train offered 
because prior to this sale the corporation 
was allowed to hold three trains. 
Immediately after the purchase, however, 
the railroad must return one of its trains 
to the bank as it is now over the new 
train limit of two.
Note — The purchase of the first diesel 
removes the remaining 4-trains from 
play. 
Note — If a railroad does not have a 
legal train route to run, it need not own 
or buy a train. 
Note — A railroad may not discard or 
scrap a train to make space for a new 
train.
Note —See the next page a full example 
of a forced train purchase.
★ 1830 Classic — If a railroad 
is forced to buy a train and its 
money plus the president’s money 
together are not enough to make the 
purchase, the president is forced to 
sell shares to make up the difference. 
If there is still not enough money 
after the president sells all of his 
shares, he goes bankrupt and the 
game ends.

Example: If the bank runs out of money 
during the first operating round of three, 
complete this operating round and the 
two remaining. 
Note — Requiring a full sequence 
of railroad operations after each 
opportunity to play the stock market 
prevents a financial swindle that is too 
devastating even for 1830. As the rules 
now disarm this ploy, you need not 
worry about it. But if you haven’t yet 
worked out what it is, you ought to, 
perhaps, be asking yourself whether you 
are a big enough crook to make the big 
time as a stock racketeer.
Example: During the last operating 
round of a cycle, Gerald buys the first 
6-train and the 3-trains are retired. Alex 
buys the other 6-train. Bob is the B&M 
president and only had 3-trains, and he 
is not the president of another railroad. 
He tries to buy a train from another 
player’s railroad, but he gets no offers 
(just a come-on from the wolves ...). So 
he needs at least $1100 to buy a diesel.
The B&M has $310 in its treasury and 
Bob has $673 of his own money. He has 
$983 and is still short of the $1100 he 
needs. He goes into receivership and takes 
a loan of $117 from the bank. He buys 
a diesel for the B&M and his turn ends. 
The operating round ends, and a stock 
round follows.
 Bob holds 3 B&M certificates (40%), 
Gerald holds 3 certificates (30%), and 3 
certificates are in the bank pool. Gerald 
buys 2 shares of the B&M. Normally 
Gerald would become the B&M’s 
president, but, since it is in receivership, 
Bob remains the B&M manager. Bob 
would like to sell a share of B&M to pay 
off the loan, but cannot since the B&M is 
in receivership. 
When the B&M runs during the next 
operating round, it keeps the revenue 
and uses part of it to pay off the loan and 
end the receivership. Gerald has 50% 
of the B&M shares and Bob only has 
40%, so Gerald immediately becomes its 
president. Bob is not happy.
a If together the railroad and its president do not have enough 
money to buy a train, both the railroad and its president spend 
all of their money and the bank pays the rest. The railroad goes 
into receivership until this “loan” is repaid (see next section).
Receivership ◈	
(7.7)
When a railroad is forced to take out a loan to buy a train, that 
railroad goes into receivership until the loan is repaid. 
a The president becomes the railroad’s manager and operates the 
railroad. Rotate the president’s certificate so that it faces away from 
its owner. In receivership, a railroad’s manager does not change.
a Place money under the presidents’ certificate equal to the 
amount of the loan. 
a The railroad may not issue dividends and it must use the 
revenue generated to pay down the loan. Excess revenue on the 
turn the loan is fully repaid goes into the railroad’s treasury.
a The railroad’s manager must use any money he acquires to pay 
down (pay to reduce) the loan until it is fully repaid. 
a Each time the loan is paid down, remove an equal amount from 
the money under the president’s certificate. When that money 
reachs zero, the loan is fully repaid. 
a The manager’s player may not sell any trains nor shares in the 
railroad while in receivership, but other players may do so. 
a When the loan is paid off, the manager becomes the president 
and the railroad operates normally. If, during the receivership, 
another player has acquired the most shares in the railroad, that 
player immediately becomes the new president.
The End Of The Game	
(8.0)
When the bank runs out of money, the game ends the next time 
that a stock round would normally start. 
$ If the money runs out during an operating round, the current set 
of operating rounds is completed and then the game ends.
$ If the money runs out during a stock round, the stock round 
is completed normally, a set of operating rounds is completed 
normally, and then the game ends.
During play, after the bank’s money runs out, the bank continues 
to payout and receive money normally. You can record the payouts 
on paper. Alternatively, each player can return an equal sum of 
money to the bank to allow normal payouts to continue.
The winner is the wealthiest player at the end of the game. That is, 
the player with highest combined total of:
$ Personal money.
$ The total value of shares. For each corporation, multiply the 
number of shares by the share price.
$ The face value of any owned private companies still in existence. 
(This is possible but unlikely—the game would have to end before 
a 5-train had been bought.) Private companies that are owned by 
corporations or have been closed have no value.
Note — If a player has more than 
one railroad in receivership, he may 
choose the order in which he pays off 
the loans. 

 awrxrx ★ 1830 Classic ★	 awrxrx
1830 Classic uses the 1830 Base Game rules with only a few rules 
changes and additions. However, due to ambiguities in the original 
rules, a number of clarifications are required. 
Clarifications	
(C-1.0)
For each ambiguous rule in the original 1830 game, these 1830 
Classic rules use one of the alternatives. The major clarifications are 
detailed here. The minor clarifications and other alternatives are 
detailed in the Variants section (pages 28-33). 
Access to Information	
(C-1.1)
All of information on the holdings of the players and railroads is 
available to all players, except that the amount of money held by a 
railroad need not be divulged. See V-0.1, p. 28 for variants.
Selling and Buying in the Same Turn	 (c-1.2)
During one of your turns during the Stock Round, you may sell 
shares, then buy your share for that turn, and then sell shares again 
(i.e., Sell-Buy-Sell). See V-6.1, p. 31 for variants (i.e., Buy-Sell and 
Sell-Buy).
Buying Brown-Valued Shares 	
(C-1.3)
During your turn in a stock round, you may purchase any 
number of shares from the bank pool of one corporation whose 
share value token is in a brown grid box. See V-6.3, p. 31 for 
variants.
Laying Tiles	
(C-1.4)
A railroad placing a tile must be able to trace a legal route (see 
7.4.2, p. 21) of any length from one of its stations to one of the 
track segments on the tile place. This is the “open” variant—more 
restrictive variants are detailed in V-7.7, p. 33.
Rules Changes and Additions	 (C-2.0)
This section details the rules differences between the base game 
and 1830 Classic.
Player Seating ★	
(C-2.1)
After choosing a banker (see 1.1), seating around the board is 
determined as follows. The banker chooses a seat and selects the 
numbered markers from 1 to the number of players. After shuffling 
the markers, the banker deals one to each player, including 
himself. Based on those numbers, the players then take their seats 
in clockwise order relative to the banker. The player with the “1” 
marker is the starting player, and takes the priority deal card.
Note — These are the complete rules for 
Francis Tresham’s original 1830 game.

Initial Purchase of Private Companies ★	 (C-2.2)
This procedure for purchasing private companies replaces the 
base game procedure detailed in section 1.3. 
Beginning with the player with the priority deal card and 
proceeding clockwise, each player takes a buy-bid-turn. While any 
private companies remain unpurchased, you and each of the other 
players must do one of the following during your buy-bid-turn:
1 Pass (i.e., you neither buy nor bid). 
2 Pay face value to buy the unbought private company that: 
 A has no bid, and B has the lowest face value. The player to 
your left gets the priority deal card.
3 Bid for another as yet unsold private company.
When all private companies are bought, a stock round begins.
Making a Bid	
(C-2.2.1)
A bid for a private company must exceed the face value of the 
company (or of any other bid already made for it) by at least $5. The 
player must place the bid money in front of him on the table and 
not use it for any other purpose until ownership of the company is 
resolved. Any number of players may bid for the same company. 
Buying a Company with a Bid	
(C-2.2.2)
If the private company with the lowest face value has at least one 
bid on it, the buy-bid-turn sequence is paused. If only one player 
has a bid on the private company, that player buys it for the amount 
of the bid. If multiple players have bid on the private company, an 
auction is held for it:
$ Only players that already have a bid on the private company may 
participate in the auction. 
$ The starting price for the auction is the highest bid already made 
for that private company. The minimum raise is $5. 
$ The player with the lowest bid starts the bidding, then bidding 
proceeds clockwise. 
$ A player may pass and still bid later if the auction does not end. 
$ If all of the bidders pass consecutively, the auction ends and 
the high bidder buys the private company using the money he 
originally bid and additional money if necessary.
Unsuccessful bidders are now free to use the money they set aside 
for their bids. The buy-bid-turn sequence then resumes with the 
player with the priority deal card.
Failure to Sell Private Companies	
(C-2.2.3)
If all of the players pass consecutively during the buy-bid-turn 
sequence and the SV is unsold, the price to buy the SV is reduced 
by $5 and the buy-bid-turn sequence resumes. If the SV’s price 
reaches $0, the next player to take his buy-bid-turn must buy the 
SV buys it for $0 (i.e., it is free but is treated as a purchase).
If all of the players pass during the buy-bid-turn sequence and the 
SV has been bought, each of the private companies already bought 
pays revenue to its owner. Then the buy-bid-turn sequence resumes 
with the player with the priority deal card. 
Note — A player gains no benefit from 
bidding twice for the same company.
Clarification — The auction in the 
original 1830 rules was not specifically 
defined. There are other variant types 
of auctions that can be used (see V-1.8, 
p. 29).
Note — If all of the players refuse 
to buy a private company, revenue 
payments to private companies already 
bought may continue for several 
Rounds—to the great delight of those 
who are making money out of it!
Example: Gerald has the priority at 
the start of a 4 player game with Dave, 
Bruce, and Keywood to his left in that 
order. He places a bid of $165 on the CA. 
Dave bids $225 for the BO, Bruce bids 
$75 for the DH, and Keywood bids $170 
for the CA. 
Coming back to Gerald, he bids $80 for 
the DH. Dave then buys the SV for $20 
and the priority deal card goes to Bruce. 
Bruce passes. Keywood buys buys the CS 
for $40 and the priority deal card goes to 
back to Gerald.
 The bid-buying pauses so that Bruce 
and Gerald’s bids on the DH can be 
resolved. Bruce’s original bid of $75 is 
the lowest, so he bids first. He bids $85. 
Gerald bids $90. Bruce bids $95. Gerald 
decides that is too rich for him and 
passes. Bruce pays his $95 to the bank 
and takes the DH certificate. 
Since Keywood was the last player to 
bid-buy, Gerald is the next to bid-buy. He 
buys the MH for $110 and the priority 
deal card goes to Dave. 
The bid-buying pauses so that Gerald 
and Keywood’s bids on the CA can be 
resolved. Gerald bids $175, and Keywood 
jumps to $200 to speed things up. Gerald 
is in no hurry and goes to $205. Keywood 
bids $210. Gerald counts his money and 
passes. Keywood pays his $210 and takes 
the CA and the free PRR certifiate that 
goes with it—a bargain.
There is only one bid on the BO, so 
Dave pays his $225 and takes the BO. 
The end results are:
Gerald: $490, MH
Dave: $355, BO, SV, Priority Deal card
Bruce: $505, DH, 
Keywood: $350, CA, CS

Note — A forced sale of shares 
may cause changes of presidency in 
companies other than the company 
without a train.
Note — It is not possible for a railroad 
without a train (A) to both buy a train 
from another controlled railroad (B) 
and also sell stock in that railroad (B) so 
that a change of presidency occurs. 
Case 1 – If railroad A purchases a 
train from railroad B, then railroad A 
has a train. So, its controlling player 
may no longer sell stock and keeps the 
presidency of railroad B. 
Case 2 – If the stock in railroad B is 
sold first, the Presidency of railroad B 
transfers immediately. So, the player 
controlling railroad A may no longer 
choose who buys railroad B’s trains.
Note — If the president cannot raise 
enough money to buy a train, that 
player is bankrupt and the game ends 
immediately.
Forced Train Purchases ★	
(C-2.3)
This procedure for forced train purchases private companies 
replaces the base game procedure detailed in section 7.6.2. 
Forced Train Purchases	
(C-2.3.1)
If a railroad with a legal train route has no train at the end of its 
operating turn, it must immediately purchase a train.
a The railroad may purchase a train from the open market, the 
bank, or another railroad using the normal rules (see 7.6, p. 23). 
a Otherwise, if the railroad has enough money, the railroad must 
purchase the cheapest train available (see note in sidebar). 
a Otherwise, if together the railroad and its president have 
enough money, they must purchase the cheapest train available 
(see note in sidebar). All of the railroad’s money must be spent, 
and the president must then make up the difference using his 
own money. However, in this case, the price paid for a train 
from another railroad may not exceed the train’s face value.
Forced Sales	
(C-2.3.2)
If together the railroad and its president do not have enough 
money to buy a train, both the railroad and its president spend 
all of their money. Then the president must sell his shares and/or 
private companies until he raises enough additional money to be 
able to purchase a train. These rules apply to forced share sales.
a The share sales may not cause a change in the presidency of the 
railroad that is without a train.
a Any changes of president caused by share sales take place 
immediately. 
a The president decides what to sell, in what order to sell it, and 
how to sell the shares and/or private companies.
a The president may only sell enough shares to be able to make 
the forced purchase of a train.
a The president may sell private companies he owns (if he can 
find a buyer), but he is not required to do so.
a If the president controls more than one railroad, his railroad 
without a train may purchase a train from one of his other 
railroads. The president is not required to do this.
Bankruptcy ★	
(C-2.4)
If a railroad is forced to buy a train and its money and the 
president’s money together are not enough to make the purchase, 
the president must sell shares to make up the difference (see C-2.3 
above). If there is not enough money after the president sells all 
of his shares that he is allowed to, he goes bankrupt and the game 
ends. 
End of the Game Due to Bankruptcy	 (C-2.5)
The game ends when the banks funds are exhausted (see 8.0, p. 
24). An 1830 Classic game also ends when a player goes bankrupt. 
No further actions may be taken by any player or railroad.
The Private Companies
	
 	
	
	
$220 / $30
Note — Available trains include trains 
in the bank, trains in the open market, 
and trains you are willing to sell from 
other railroads you control.
Note —The bankrupt president’s final 
score (i.e., wealth) is the value of all of 
the shares that he could not sell. It is 
possible, but unlikely, that a bankrupt 
player can win.

 awrxrxr Variants	
awrxrxr
There are a number of different methods for resolving elements 
of play in 1830. These variant rules arose due to ambiguities in the 
older rules, differences in the various 18XX games, and personal 
preference. This section presents a number of these variant rules 
and suggestions for handling these rules. The variants used in 1830 
Classic are marked with a “★“ The variants used in the 1830 Base 
Game and not in 1830 Classic are marked with a “◈“
These rules can be used in any combination agreed to by the 
players before a game begins.
Access to Information (V-0.1)	
There are a number of ways to handle available information.
Open Knowledge (◈)— All information on the holdings of players 
and railroads is available to all players.
Partial Knowledge — All information except the amount of a 
railroad’s money need not be revealed.
Closed Knowledge — A player’s money and a railroad’s money 
need not be revealed.
Preparing For Play	
 (V-1.0)
There are a number of variants based upon the set up and 
components used in the game. In general, you can used any of these 
components in any combination to create your own scenarios.
Seating Order (V-1.1)
Sit as You Will — Choose a banker. No designated seating order.
Random Seat Positions (★) — Chose a banker. Determine seating 
order as detailed in C-2.1.
Board & Board Tiles (V-1.2)
1830 Classic (★) — Use the 1830 Classic board as is.
1830+ Scenarios — Use the 1830+ board with the special “board 
tiles” specified for each scenario.
Available Money Variants (V-1.3)
The Full 12K (★) — Use all $12,000.
1830+ Scenarios — Use the money specified for each scenario.
Short Game — This variant removes $7,500 from the bank. 
Extended Game — This variant adds $8,000 to the bank. You can 
use pennies or the like to represent 16 additional $500 bills. 
Track Tiles Variants (V-1.4)
1830+ Scenarios — Use the track tiles specified for each scenario.
Expanded Track Mix A — Use the 1830 Classic tiles and the other 
tiles that are not city specific. See sidebar chart in the sidebar 
(this chart also includes the city specific tiles: bb#, to#, ny#).
Expanded Track Mix B — Use the 1830 Classic tiles and the A8, 
A9, & B36 tiles. 
Expanded Track Mix
Use 1830 Classic Tiles plus:
Yellow 	
Green 
Tile (#)	
A1 (+5)........................ B1-B3,B8-B11
A2 (+5). B2, B4, B5, B8, B9, B12-B14
A3 (+3)........ B3, B10, B11, B13, B14
A7 (+2)................................. B35-B37
A8 (2).......................................B35-37
A9 (2)....................................B35-B37
A15 (+1)....................................... B29
A16 (+1)....................................... B29
A17 (+1)....................................... B30
A18 (+1)....................................... B28
	
Brown 
Green Tile(#)	
B4 (1).............................................. C5
B24 (1)................................. C11-C13
B25 (1)................................. C11-C13
B26 (1)................................. C12, C13
B27 (1).......................................... C12
B28 (1).......................................... C11
B29 (1).......................................... C12
B30 (1).......................................... C13
B35 (+1)....................................... C15
B36 (1)......................................... C15
B37 (+2)....................................... C15
oo1 (1)............................... oo10-oo17
oo2 (+1)............................ oo10-oo17
bb2 (2)....................................bb5-bb7
to1 (1)..............................................to5
Gray or	
Gray 
Brown Tile(#)	
C11 (1).................................................
C12 (1).................................................
C13 (1).................................................
C15 (+1)..........................................D4
oo13 (1)........................................oo20
oo14 (1)........................................oo20
oo17 (1)........................................oo20
bb6 (1)..................................................
bb7 (1)..................................................
to5 (1)...................................................
ny6 (1)..................................................
oo20 (1)................................................
D4 (1)..................................................

Private Companies (V-1.5)
1830 Classic (★) — Use the 6 original private companies.
1830+ Scenarios — Use the 6 original private companies plus the 
1830+ private companies specified for each scenario.
Railroad Corporations (V-1.6)
1830 Classic (★) — Use the 8 original railroad corporations.
1830+ Scenarios — Use the 1830+ board with the railroads 
specified for each scenario.
Extra Railroads — You may use any combination of the additional 
railroads with the classic board based on their positions on the 
1830+ board.
Train Mix Variants (V-1.7)
1830 Classic (★) — Use the original train mix: 6x 2-trains, 
5x 3-trains, 4x 4-trains, 3x 5-trains, 2x 6-trains, 6x diesels.
1830 Classic (★) — An extra 6-train was available as an option in 
the original 1830.
1830+ Scenarios — Use the train mix specified for each scenario.
“Plus” Trains — This variant uses five “plus” trains (see V-3.0, p. 
30; and V-7.10, p. 33). 
No Diesels — This variant removes diesels from the game. So the 
4-trains are never retired.
Unlimited Diesels — There are an unlimited number of diesels 
available. Use token or markers to keep track of additional trains.
Buying the Private Companies (V-1.8)
Bid & Choose — Buy the privates as detailed in section 1.3.
Buy-Bid & Auction (★) — Buy the privates as detailed in C-2.2.
Auction Variants
Formal Bidding (★) — Bidding starts with the player holding the 
priority deal card and proceeds clockwise (see C-2.2, p. 26)
Free for All — Any participating player can make a bid at anytime. 
Bidding stops when all participating players agrees to.
Pass and Still In (★) — A player that passes may bid again.
Pass and Out — A player that passes may not bid again.
$5 Minimum Raise (★) — Bids must be raised by at least $5.
$5 Incremental Bids — Bids may only be raised in multiples of $5.
$5 Raises — Bids may only be raised by exactly $5.
Sequence of Play	
 (2.0)
Variable Turn Order (★) — The turn order in which railroads 
operate can change during a operating round if the share values 
of railroad change. 
Fixed Turn Order — The turn order in which railroads operate is 
determined at the beginning of the operating round and does not 
change during the round. 
1830+ Private Companies
Private Company	
Abbr.
Schuylkill Valley.............................SV
Pittsburgh & Louisville................. PL
Champlain & St. Lawrence........... CS
C&O Canal.................................... CC
Potomac & Piedmont.................... PP
Delaware & Hudson.....................DH
Mohawk & Hudson.....................MH
James River & Kanawha.................JK
Camden & Amboy........................ CA
Baltimore & Ohio......................... BO 
1830+ Railroads
Railroad Corporatiion	
Abbr.
Pennsylvania................................ PRR
New York Central...................... NYC
Canadian Pacific.........................CPR
Baltimore & Ohio...................... B&O
Chesapeake & Ohio...................C&O
Erie................................................Erie
New York, 
 New Haven, & Hartford ....... NNH
Boston & Maine.........................B&M
Norfolk & Western..................N&W
Pere Marquette...........................PMQ
Nickel Plate..................................NKP
Reading........................................RDR
1830+ Trains
Total Available
2-trains...............................................7
3-trains...............................................6
4-trains...............................................7
5-trains...............................................4
6-trains...............................................4
7-trains...............................................2
diesels.................................................7
Variant Trains (see V-7.10, p. 33):
2+2-train..............................................1
3+3-train..............................................1
4+4-train..............................................1
5+5-train..............................................1
6+6-train..............................................1

 (3.0)
Delayed Obsolescence — This variant delays the removal of trains 
due to obsolescence—each train is allowed to run and earn 
revenue one more time after it would normally be removed. For 
example, as soon as the first 4-train is purchased, all 2-trains are 
normally removed immediately—with this variant in play, each 
2-train is allowed to run and earn revenue its railroad once more 
before it is removed from play.
Delayed Private Company Sales — This variant delays the sale 
of private companies until after the stock round following the 
purchase of the first 3-Train. 
Permanent 4-Trains — This variant removes diesels from the 
game, so the 4-trains are never retired.
Delayed Obsolescence for the “Plus” trains — There is one 
“plus” train for each of the train types between 2 and 6: 2+2, 3+3, 
4+4, 5+5, and 6+6. Each replaces one of the normal train with the 
corresponding number. A plus train is always the last bought 
of its type. In addition, the 2+2 is not retired until the 4+4 train is 
bought, the 3+3 train is not retired until the 6+6 is bought, and the 
4+4 train is not retired until the last diesel is bought. 
(4.0)
DH Station Tight (★) — If the railroad that bought the DH does 
not lay a token on the turn it lays the tile on hex F-16, it must 
follow the normal rules when placing a station (e,g., it must have 
a route to the hex). Other railroads may lay a tile on hex F-16 
subject to the ordinary rules, after which, the DH special effects 
are no longer available.
DH Station Flexible — The owner of the DH may place a station 
on hex F-16 on a turn after placing a tile on its starting hex—even 
if it does not have a route to the hex.
Schuylkill Valley — If this variant is used, the cost to lay a tile in 
G-15 is halved for the owner of the SV. The SV is retired if this 
effect is used. 
 (5.0)
Share Price: Selling Shares	
(V-5.1)
A corporation’s share value token moves down when a player sells 
one or more of that corporation’s shares. However, there are several 
ways to handle this effect.
Standard (★) — The token moves down 1 grid box for each share 
sold. If already at the bottom of a column, the token doesn’t move.
Once Per Block — The token moves down 1 grid box per block of 
shares sold.
Once Per Block by non-President — The token moves down 
1 grid box per block of shares sold by a player who is not the 
president, and 1 box per share for the president.
Note — For more on Plus trains see 
V7.10 on page 33.

Stock Market Reforms — Starting with the stock round following 
the purchase of the last 5-train, and continuing until the end of 
the game, all sales result in the share value dropping by one row 
per block of shares sold, rather than one row for each share sold. 
All other rules for share sales remain as standard.
Share Price Increase Linked to Dividend 	
(V-5.2)
Share value only increases due to issuance of dividends if 
dividends are greater than or equal to share price.
Increased Certificate Limits	
(V-5.3)
When using additional railroads, it is often appropriate to 
increase the certificate limits. The sidebar chart provides some 
suggested values, and another set of suggested limits is on the game 
board.
Stock Rounds	
 (6.0)
Selling and Buying in the Same Turn (V-6.1)
There a number of ways to handle the order of buying and selling 
during your turn.
Sell-Buy-Sell (★) — During one of your turns during the stock 
round, you may sell shares, then buy your one share for that turn, 
and then sell shares again.
Sell-Buy — During one of your turns during the stock round, you 
may sell shares, then buy your share for that turn.
Buy-Sell — During one of your turns during the stock round, you 
may buy your share for that turn, and then you may sell shares.
Selling 2+ Shares in the Same Turn (V-6.2)
Share Sales as Block (★) — Any shares of the same type are sold as 
a block during your turn—all shares sold get the same money. 
Sell Multiple Shares One at a Time — During your turn, you may 
sell 1 share and let the price drop, then sell another share of the 
same type and let the price drop, etc. This choice will yield less 
money for you, so use it with care.
Buying Brown-Valued Shares (V-6.3)
Buy From Bank Pool (★) — During your turn in a stock round, 
you may purchase any number of shares from the bank pool of 
one corporation whose share value token is in a brown grid box. 
Buy All — During your turn in a stock round, you may purchase 
any number of bank shares and shares from the bank pool of one 
corporation whose share value token is in a brown grid box. 
Buying and Selling Private Companies (V-6.4)
Private Company Sales Restriction (★) — A private company 
may not be both bought and sold during the same stock round. 
Without this rule, players can freely transfer money by selling and 
reselling a private company.
Private Company Sales Unrestricted — Private companies may be 
bought and sold during the same stock round.
1830+ Certificate Limits
2 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
3 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
4 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
6 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
7 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

Operating Rounds	
(7.0)
Split Revenues (V-7.1)
This variant allows you to divide the revenue for your railroad 
equally between dividends and your railroad. When you do so, 
your railroad’s share value does not change.
Railroads with an Additional 20% Share (V-7.2)
The Erie certificate mix may be modified so that there are two 
of the 20% certificates (one president’s certificate and one “other” 
certificate). Similarly the N&W has an “other” 20% certificate.
The “other” 20% certificate is available for purchase as soon as 
the president’s certificate is purchased. Players have the option of 
purchasing either a 10% certificate or the 20% certificate from the 
initial offering (until the 20% certificate is sold).
The owner of the “other” 20% certificate has the option of selling 
only 10% of his certificate. This option is not available if there are 
no 10% certificates already present in the bank pool to trade for 
(initial offering certificates may not be considered for this purpose).
Railroads with a “OO” Starting Hex (V-7.3)
The Erie has a starting hex that is a yellow “OO” hex. The Erie 
home station may be placed on either city in the yellow hex marked 
with the Erie logo (E-11). No other railroad may place a station in 
that hex until the Erie has placed its home station. 
The Erie may place a oo2 (#59) green tile on the hex containing 
its home station (assuming green tiles are available). The Erie does 
not have to place a tile in its starting hex.
All of the above also applies to the Pere Marquette for its starting 
hex (E-5).
Multiple Starting Hexes (V-7.4)
When a railroad with multiple starting hexes starts its first turn 
of operations, its home station token is placed on any one of its 
starting hexes. There must be a vacant space at one of the locations. 
If another railroad places a token such that it there are no open city 
circles at one of the locations, the railroad can only place its home 
station in one of the other cities. The railroad’s final open starting 
hex city circle must remain open and reserved for the railroad. The 
railroads with the potential for multiple starting hexes are:
C&O — Cleveland (F-6) and Richmond (K-13)
N&W — Norfolk (L-16) and Roanoke (L-10)
RDR ­— Schuylkill Valley (G15) and Reading (H-16)
Non-City Starting Hexes (V-7.5)
On the 1830+ board, the PRR has a starting hex without a city. 
There is a special optional station token for the PRR with the 
railroad’s logo and a circled “10” revenue symbol. When the PRR 
starts its first turn of operations it places this special token on its 
logo space. Whenever the PRR runs a route through its starting 
hex, it may use its home station as a city on its route with a revenue 
of 10. The track in the hex may be upgraded normally.
The Reading Railroad also uses this rule.
Note — There was a set of variant 
rules concerning the Reading Railroad 
published in the 1980s. This version of 
the Reading has no connection to that 
variant. 

Example: The PRR 
issues dividends during 
its turn. Its share value 
token should move to 
the right, but it is at the 
end of the row, so the 
token moves up to the 
“350” grid box. The PRR 
finishes its turn and the 
game ends.
Replacing Green OO Tiles (V-7.9)
Fixed “OO” Cities (★) — When replacing a OO 
tile (oo2), you must not only 
“maintain existing track,” you 
must also maintain the existing 
cities’ connections to existing 
track (e.g., a broad curve on 
a replacement tile may not 
connect the two track segments 
on the original OO tile).
Variable “OO” Cities — When replacing a OO tile 
(oo2) that does not have 2 stations, you may place 
a replacement tile (oo11, oo15, oo16) so that the 
broad curve connects the two track segments on the 
original OO tile. If there is one station on the tile, 
its owner may choose which city it occupies on the 
new tile.
“Plus” Trains (V-7.10)
There is one “plus” train for each of the train 
types between 2 and 6: 2+2, 3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6. 
Each replaces one of the normal train with the 
corresponding number. A plus train is always the last 
bought of its type. In addition, the 2+2 is not retired 
until the 4+4 train is bought, the 3+3 train is not retired 
until the 6+6 is bought, and the 4+4 train is not retired 
until the last diesel is bought. 
The sum of the two numbers on a plus-train (i.e., 
its type times two) is equal to the maximum number 
of cities that the train may have on its route when it 
runs. However, the maximum number of large cities 
on its route is still equal to the train’s type—the rest of 
the cities must be small cities.
The End Of The Game (8.0)
 Market Peaks End of Game —If the share value 
of any railroad reaches the highest value of the 
stock market, the game ends after that railroad has 
finished its current operating turn (or at the end of 
the stock round if the increase was due to all shares 
of the stock being sold).
Reading Railroad (V-7.6)
The RDR has several variant starting hexes.
(G-15) — The RDR operated extensively in this 
area. Use the rules in V-7.4 & V-7.5 for handling 
the RDR’s home station in this hex. In addition, 
the cost for laying a tile on its starting hex is 
only $60 for the RDR only.
(H-16) — This reflects the historical development 
of the railroad, but it can potentially be very 
disruptive to the PRR and B&O.
Choice — The RDR can choose its starting hex 
(G-15 or H-16) as detailed in V-7.4.
Laying Tiles (V-7.7)
Open Track Placement (★) — A railroad placing 
a tile must be able to trace a legal train route of 
any length from one of its stations to at least one 
track segments on the tile placed. 
Closed Track Placement — A railroad placing 
a tile must be able to trace a legal train route of 
any length from one of its stations to at least one 
new track segments on the tile placed. 
Hybrid Track Placement — The closed variant 
is used, plus a tile may be placed if the new tile 
pays out more revenue.
Buying and Selling Trains (V-7.8)
Firm Train Limit (★) — A railroad may not buy 
a train if it already has the maximum number of 
trains allowed.
Flexible Train Limit — A railroad may buy 
a train such that it exceeds the limit on the 
number of trains that a railroad can have. 
However, it must then discard a train to the 
open market.
Can Sell a Railroad’s Last Train (★) — A railroad 
with a legal route may sell its last train. It is only 
required to have a train during its own turn.
Can’t Sell a Railroad’s Last Train — A railroad 
with a legal route may not sell its last train.
➥

Components (S-1.1)
marked with a D:
Coal River Hex (30a) . . . . . . . . . L-8
SE Warehouse (30b) . . . . . . . . . M-13
SW Warehouse (30c) . . . . . . . . . L-2
W Warehouse (30d) . . . . . . . . . . F-2
NW Warehouse (30e) . . . . . . . .A-11
NE Warehouse (30f) . . . . . . . . . B-24
Straight Track (A1) . . . . . . . . . M-11
3 Railroads — 
Add the Norfolk & Western 
(N&W); add the Pere Marquette 
(PMQ);use the D side of the two 
Erie certificates so marked.
4 Private Companies — Add the 
James River & Kanawha Company. 
Face value: $120, Revenue: $20. 
The initial purchaser of the JK 
receives a free Kanawha license 
which can not be sold or traded 
(see p. 35 for license effects). The 
railroad has the right to build on 
any one (1) hex that is adjacent 
to the Kanawha Coal River hex at 
half price. This would constitute 
(S-1.0)	
“A Level Playing Field”	
Scenario D	
by Morgan Dontanville
In 1830 Classic, certain railroads are generally considered to be 
1st tier railroads, while the others are 2nd tier. The former have the 
potential to generate more revenue than the latter due to proximity 
to New York, number of stations, and a number of other factors.
This scenario makes changes to 1830 Classic so that all railroads 
have roughly the same potential for revenue generation.
(S-1.2)
Use the components detailed in the sidebar and summarized in 
scenario tables on pp. 45-47.
The Phases (3.0)
Once the first 6-train is bought, 7-trains and diesels are available.
Private Companies (4.0)
The James River & Kanawha (JK) company is available between 
the MH and the CA.
Certificate Limits (5.2)
The limits on the number of certificates that a player may have are 
detailed in the sidebar.
Norfolk & Western — The base city of the N&W is Norfolk (L-16).
The N&W has a second 20% share certificate that is handled just 
like the Erie’s second 20% certificate.
Pere Marquette — The base city of the PMQ is Detroit/Windsor 
(E-5). The PMQ may start in either Detroit or Windsor.
This section presents a number of “1830+” scenarios. Each 
scenario details a set of variant rules that can be used with 1830 
Classic to play a specific version of 1830+.
Setting Up the 1830+ Board
For each 1830+ scenario, you need to place a few board tiles on 
the 1830+ board before beginning play. These tiles are specified 
in Table T-01 on p. 44. Each tile also has brown, circled leters 
indicating which scenarios it is used with.
During play, you should treat these board tiles as if they were part 
of the board (i.e., you do not remove them, and just place any new 
tiles on top of the board tiles).
 awrxrx 1830+ Scenarios	 awrxrx
Pulling the Track Tiles & Trains
For each scenario, remove the 
track tiles that are not available— as 
specified in each scenario’s section 
in the rules, and in Table T-02 on 
p. 45. Each tile also has brown, 
circled letter indicating the scenarios 
it is used with.
Similarly, you need to stack the 
available trains next to the board as 
specified in Table T-03 on p. 45.

Erie — The Erie certificate mix is modified so that there are now 
two of the 20% certificates (one president’s certificate and one 
“other” certificate).
The “other” 20% certificate is available for purchase as soon as 
the president’s certificate is purchased. Players have the option of 
purchasing either a 10% certificate or the 20% certificate from the 
initial offering (until the 20% certificate is sold).
The owner of the “other 20% certificate has the option of selling 
only 10% of his certificate. This option is not available if there are 
no 10% certificates already present in the bank pool to trade for 
(initial offering certificates may not be considered for this purpose).
The Pere Marquette
All rules about laying track for the Erie in theh base game are to 
be applied to both the Erie and the PMQ in this scenario. 
The Virginia Coalfields
The Kanawha-Coal (K-C) River hex represents the Virginia 
coalfields. Each corporation that wishes to run into or through this 
hex must pay $120 license cost to build their route to the local coal 
mines. This hex counts as a large city stop on a train route and any 
train may only pass through this hex once per run.
A railroad wishing to access the K-C River hex must have a 
connection between one of its tokens and the K-C River hex that by 
a route of infinite length.
The purchase of a K-C River access license takes place during the 
track-building phase of a railroad’s operating round and is made in 
addition to any track building that may take place.
A railroad’s K-C River access license is not transferable via trade, 
sale, or any other method.
Place a Station (7.3)
Station Tokens
All station tokens cost $100.
The C&O
When the C&O starts its first turn of operations, a token is 
placed at either Cleveland or Richmond. No railroads may place 
a token in Richmond until the C&O lays its first token. If another 
company places a token such that it closes out Cleveland then the 
C&O can only open in Richmond. If the C&O starts in Cleveland, 
the Richmond space is open to token placement by other railroads. 
The C&O may not place a token in both locations without a valid 
connection.
Run Trains (7.4)
Warehousing
 Each red off-board area is covered with a board tile. Those board 
tiles represent railroad facilities and warehousing that allow trains 
to “run through” the area. A route may pass through a warehouse. 
Treat the warehouse area as a city for purposes of revenue and train 
capacity.
the railroad’s regular tile lay and 
close the company. The owner 
retains the license after the 
JK closes. 
5 Trains — A diesel only costs $900 
to buy and $750 with a trade-in.
Add (total #)
2-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+1 (7)
3-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+1 (6)
4-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+2 (6)
5-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+1 (4)
6-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+1 (4)
7-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .+2 (2)
diesels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (6)
6 Track Tiles — Except as noted 
here, use all of the track tiles—the 
1830 Classic track tiles and the 
1830+ track tiles. Remove these 
tiles:
A8 (5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 
A9 (6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
bb2 (592) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
7Money — $12,000; if there are 
7 players, give each $360
8 Special — 3x Kanawha Coal River 
Access Licenses (each marked with 
a D). Use a proxy marker if a 4th 
player wants a license.
Certificate Limits
2 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
3 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
4 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
6 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
7 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Variant 
The A9 and A10 track tiles are 
available.

More than anything, I felt that there was 
an imbalance on the board. Because of their 
starting locations, some companies were 
just flat out better than others. Now you can 
create situations for weaker companies to 
become powerhouses, but I wanted to have 
a map that allowed for all companies to have 
a fighting chance. Now, with this scenario 
you get to see steady activity in the west side 
of the board. In addition, the dog that was 
the CanPac is actually a pretty good buy 
now; and Erie, the company that was always 
dependent on the groundwork that was given 
to it, actually gives people incentive to buy 
in. In addition to that, the C&O is allowed 
to mix it up in either the north or the south. 
This allows for a dynamic change in how the 
early game plays out. You just can’t depend 
on the C&O’s involvement with a particular 
location.
I know what I like in an 18xx game and 
tried to fashion that kind of growth and 
variability. I also know that I am merely a 
weekend warrior when it comes to these 
games. In order to feel confident about its 
playability I took this game to the yahoo 
18xx board (http://games.groups.yahoo.com/
group/18xx) and wrangled up some of the 
experts in the field (Matt Riley, Harry White, 
Frank P. Visco). I especially want to thank 
J C Lawrence & Aliza Panitz for intense 
playtesting and great ideas and advice, John 
David Galt for being a catalog of information 
and sound mind, and Hanno Girke for 
properly keeping everyone in line. All in all, I 
feel this scenario succeeds mainly because of 
these fine folk.
—Morgan Dontanville
PRR Starting Hex
On the 1830+ board, the PRR has a starting hex without a city. 
There is a special optional station token for the PRR with the 
railroad’s logo and a circled “10” revenue symbol. When the PRR 
starts its first turn of operations it places this special token on its 
logo space. Whenever the PRR runs a route through its starting 
hex, it may use its home station as a city on its route with a revenue 
of 10. Other railroads may use the track in the hex normally. The 
track in the hex may be upgraded normally.
Collect Revenue (7.5)
In addition to the warehouses, some gray hexes have two values. 
The lower value is used until the first 5 train is bought, immediately 
after which the higher value is used. These hexes include Montreal, 
Norfolk, and the Kanawha Coal River hex.
Purchasing Trains
Once the first 6-train is purchased, 7 and D trains are also 
available as an alternative to other 6-trains. Diesels may be bought 
for the $900 face value or for $750 with a trade in. Either a 4, 5, 6, 
or 7 train may be traded in for the $150 discount. Any 5, 6, or 7 
train traded in for credit on a diesel purchase may be repurchased 
from the bank pool at face value. 
(S-1.3)
I’ve always loved the basic 1830. Over the years, when people would ask, what 
is the best intro game into the 18xx line, I’d begrudgingly say 1830. It was hard 
to expect someone to get into a system by seeking out an expensive, hard to find, 
out of print game. While there are other passable ways into the system, I felt this 
was the best. What makes 1830 so great as an intro system is its purity. People 
have made their own changes over the years to suit their tastes, but 1830 is the 
hard fast punch to the jaw.
Now, when presented with an opportunity to add to the system I have to 
ask myself why even attempt to change a good thing? First, this scenario came 
straight from the work of others. There was too much worthwhile work and new 
ideas by talented designers that went into attempting to make 1830 even better. I 
felt it would have been a shame to let the extended legacy fall by the wayside. 
Because things change over time, I was faced with a decision to either let these 
ideas turn fallow, or to be inspired by the explorations. I tracked down Federico 
Vellani to see if he wanted his work with the Pere Marquette added to our set and 
he seemed pleased to see it come back to life again. The other additions we have 
had to make on our own.
So when I approached this version of 1830, I thought that I would try to tackle 
a few issues that I feel that the base game could change. One, I feel that the basic 
1830 ends too frequently with bankruptcy. While I want the danger of going bust 
to be there, I also want there to be a likely chance that the game will grow and 
develop to its natural conclusion—busting the bank.
If you limit the likelihood of a player prematurely ending the game, then 
people can play for the long game. It decreases the chances of stumbling 
into victory, strictly because of the misfortune of a fellow player. The most 
unfortunate thing for me about bankruptcy is that a player that goes out often 
must sell their stock, so the value of a middling stock will plummet. If you are in 
on a company with them, your game can get tanked because they played poorly.
Trains and station prices have been changed to slow early growth down along 
with adding new trains into the mix. This will buffer a crazy train rush, so that 
people will be able to get on their feet. 

Components (S-2.1)
This scenario uses the 1830 
Classic game components and the 
components used in Scenario S-1.0 
except as detailed in this sidebar.
2 Board Tiles — Use the board 
tiles marked with a G:
Coal River Hex (30a) . . . . . . . . J-10
Richmond, w/o C&O home (30p) K-13
Ottawa, w/ no cost (30q) . . . . . B-16
Toronto, w/30,exits NE,SW (30r) D-10
Blank (30h) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C-21
SE Warehouse (30b) . . . . . . . . M-13
SW Warehouse (30c) . . . . . . . . . L-2
W Warehouse (30d) . . . . . . . . . . F-2
NW Warehouse (30e) . . . . . . . A-11
NE Warehouse (30f) . . . . . . . . . B-24
3 Railroads — Add the Norfolk 
& Western (N&W); add the Pere 
Marquette (PMQ).
4 Private Companies — Add the 
Potomac & Piedmont Coal and 
Railroad Company (PP).
5 Trains — 
Add (total #)
2-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 (7)
3-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 (6)
4-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 (5)
5-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 (4)
6-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 (3)
7-trains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +2 (2)
Diesels . . . . unlimited, Classic price
6 Track Tiles — Use all of the track 
tiles except for:
A8 (5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 
A9 (6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
B28 (88) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B29 (204) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B30 (87) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
bb1 (53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
ny5 (62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
oo20 (167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
D4 (513) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
(S-2.0)	 “No One Expects the Canadian Pacific”	
Scenario G	
by Hanno Girke
This scenario is designed to give the CPR more potential and 
make it a 1st tier railroad. In addition, it moves the coalfields to 
the NE so that they are within 3 builds for the C&O, PRR, B&O, 
and N&W. Use the components detailed in the sidebar (S-2.1) and 
summarized in the tables on p. 45.
(S-2.2)
Unless stated otherwise, all 1830 Classic rules are in effect. In 
addition, all of the rules for Scenario S-1.0 are in effect unless stated 
otherwise.
The Potomac & Piedmont Coal and Railroad Company (PP) 
company is available between the CS and the DH.
Face value: $60, Revenue: $10. 
Effect: A railroad owning the PP receives a free (New River) coal 
field license which can not be sold or traded (see p. 35 for 
license effects). When the owning railroad first runs a route 
including the New River coal field hex, the PP is closed down. 
The owner still retains the license after the PP closes.
See Scenario S-1.0.
C&O — The C&O starting hex is Cleveland.
Erie — Use the standard certificate mix (i.e., do not use the 2nd 
20% certificate). 
For coal fields rules, see Scenario S-1.0. in addition, only the 
Toronto tiles (to1 and to5) can be used to upgrade D-10.
Place a Station (7.3)
Station Tokens
Station token costs are standard: $40 for the 1st, $100 each for 
rest.
Purchasing Trains
See Scenario S-1.0. The diesels cost is standard: 1100/800.
(S-2.3)
This scenario mirrors most of the elements of the first scenario. 
It also makes some more changes to the CPR’s position to make it a 
possible 1st tier railroad.

Components (S-3.1)
marked with a R.
Coal River Hex (30a) . . . . . . . . . L-8
3 Railroads — Add the Norfolk & 
Western (N&W); add the Nickel 
Plate (NKP).
4 Private Companies — Add the 
James River & Kanawha company. 
Face value: $120, Revenue: $20. 
A railroad owning the JK receives 
a free Kanawha license which can 
not be sold or traded (see p. 35 for 
license effects). The railroad has the 
right to build on any one (1) hex 
that is adjacent to the Kanawha Coal 
River hex at half price. This would 
constitute the railroad’s regular tile 
lay and close the company. The owner 
retains the license after the JK closes.
5 Trains — Remove a 1830 Classic 
2-train, 3-train, 4-train, and 
5-train (each is marked with a 
“★“). Add in the five “plus” trains: 
the 2+2, 3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6.
6Track Tiles — Except as noted 
here, use all of the track tiles—the 
1830 Classic track tiles and the 
1830+ tiles. Remove these tiles: 
bb1 (53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
7 Money — $12,000.
8 Special — 3x Kanawha-Coal 
River Access Licenses). Use a 
proxy marker if a 4th player wants 
a license.
(S-3.0)	
“The Empire Builders Strike Back”	
Scenario R	
by L. Roznai et al.
This scenario extends the primary regions in play to the south 
and west. Use the components detailed in the sidebar (S-2.1) and 
summarized in the tables on p. 45.
(S-3.2)
Unless stated otherwise, all 1830 Classic rules are in effect. In 
addition, all of the rules for Scenario S-1.0 are in effect unless stated 
otherwise.
The James River & Kanawha (JK) Company is available between 
the MH and the CA.
Erie — The Erie certificate mix is the same as it is in 1830 Classic.
Norfolk & Western — The base city of the N&W is Norfolk (L-16). 
Pere Marquette — The Pere Marquette is not used.
Nickel Plate — The base city of the Nickel Plate is Columbus (H-4). 
The Virginia Coalfields
See Scenario S-1.0
“Plus” Trains (V-7.10)
There is one “plus” train for each of the train types between 2 and 
6: 2+2, 3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6. Each replaces one of the normal train 
with the corresponding number. A plus train is always the last 
bought of its type. In addition, the 2+2 is not retired until the 4+4 
train is bought, the 3+3 train is not retired until the 6+6 is bought, 
and the 4+4 train is not retired until the last diesel is bought. 
The sum of the two numbers on a plus-train (i.e., its type times 
two) is equal to the maximum number of cities that the train may 
have on its route when it runs. However, the maximum number of 
large cities on its route is still equal to the train’s type—the rest of 
the cities must be small cities.
(S-3.3)
This scenario mirrors most of the elements of the first scenario. 
However, it uses an expanded track tile mix, and it uses a more 
traditional board setup. This allows for a more wide open game 
even when many stations are placed.

Components (S-4.1)
Note: Use information on board 
marked with a B : “F” — 
Coalfield hex (see special rules) 
Canal symbol in two places I-11, 
J-12. It costs $40 to place a tile on 
an river hex marked with “($40).”
marked with a B:
Blank (30h) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . H-4
Columbus, w/NKP home (30i) H-6
Blank Gray Lake Erie(30j) . . . . . F-6
Cleveland, w/o C&O home (30k) F-8
Old Detroit (30l) . . . . . . . . . . . . .E-5
Old Toronto (30m) . . . . . . . . . D-10
Roanoke, 
 w/ N&W home (30n) . . . . . L-10 
3 Railroads — Add the 
Norfolk & Western (N&W); 
add the Nickel Plate (NKP).
4 Private Companies — Add both:
the C&O Canal company, and the 
Pittsburgh & Louisville 
Packet company. 
5 Trains — Remove a 1830 Classic 
2-train, 3-train, 4-train, and 
5-train (each is marked with a 
“★“). Add in the five “plus” trains: 
the 2+2, 3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6. (see 
V-7.10 for details).
6 Track Tiles — Except as noted 
here, use all of the track tiles. Also 
remove these tiles:
bb2 (592) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
bb6 (884) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
bb7 (997) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
ny6 (883) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
oo20 (167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
D4 (513) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
(S-4.0)	
“Opening up West, By-God, Virginia”	
Scenario B	
by the Bromleys et al.
This scenario also opens up the west and southern regions, while 
also correcting some historical and geographic problems in the 
original 1830 board. Use the components detailed in the sidebar (S-
2.1) and summarized in the tables on p. 45.
(S-4.2)
C&O Canal (CC) company — Available between CS and DH.
Face value: $50, Revenue: $10.
Effect: A railroad owning the CC may build on the hexes marked as 
containing the CC (I-11, J-12) for a terrain cost of only $20 each. 
The company is closed when tiles have been laid on both hexes.
Pittsburgh & Louisville Packet (PL) company — Available 
between SV and CL.
Face value: $30, Revenue: $5.
Effect: A railroad owning the PL may lay a tile on any Ohio river 
hex with no terrain cost (J-2, J-4, K-5, J-6, J-8, or I-9). This hex 
need not be connected to one of the railroad’s stations, and it 
need not be connect to any track at all. This free tile placement 
may be performed in addition to the railroad’s normal tile 
placement—on that turn only it may play two tiles. 
Norfolk & Western — The base city of the N&W is Roanoke (L-10). 
Nickel Plate — The base city of the NKP is Columbus (H-6). 
C&O — The base city of the C&O is Richmond (K-13). 
Share Sale and Increase Variants
Use variants V-5.2 (p31) and V5.1 (p30) “Once Per Block by 
Non-President.”
The Virginia Coal Fields
All mountain hexes marked with a F have a terrain cost of $60.
Add +$10 to run revenue for each hex marked with a F. 
Running Routes (7.5)
A train may not run to the same hex more than once (including 
NY and Chicago).
(S-4.3)
This scenario mirrors some of the elements of the first scenario. 
However it also fixes some geographical inaccuracies in the original 
board and provides a different take on the W. Va. coal fields.

Components (S-5.1)
0 Economic Uncertainty Tokens 
— Use the tokens with the 
following label on the fronts: 
 3x “no change,” 
 1x “short runs,” 
 1x “retain revenue.” 
If playing with three 5-trains, only 
use 2 “no change” tokens.
1 Board — Use the 1830 board or 
the 1830+ board as preferred.
2+ Other Components — Use 
whatever components are specified 
for the scenario you are playing.
(S-5.0)	
“Uncertain Times”
Scenario T	
by Keith Thomasson
This scenario’s rules and mechanisms reflect some of the effects 
that the Great Depression of the 1930s had on the U.S. railroads. 
Both the Depression era and the post Depression era are addressed.
(S-5.2)
After choosing a banker (1.1), determine the seating around 
the board AND ownership of the private companies. The banker 
chooses a seat, shuffles the private companies, and deals one to each 
player—including himself.
 a In ascending order based on the price of the private company 
held, the players then take their seats in clockwise order relative 
to the banker. 
a Each player pays the face value price to the bank for ownership 
of the private company received. 
a The player with the lowest priced private company is the 
starting player, give him the priority deal card.
a Remove the undealt private companies, if any, from the game.
a If the CA is removed, the PRR share certificate is not issued and 
remains in the bank, where it is available as a normal share.
a If the BO is removed, the BO presidency is not issued and 
remains in the bank, where it is available for purchase just like 
the other presidencies.
Options 
a) The remaining private companies are sold in ascending price 
order at face value.
b) The remaining private companies are sold in the usual way. 
Players may bid for future private companies and auctions may 
be held as a result..
The Phases (3.0) & Uncertainty Tokens
Once the first 5-train is available (i.e., the last 4-train is 
purchased), turn the Economic Uncertainty (EU) tokens facedown 
and shuffle them. Each time a 5-train is purchased, flip over a 
random EU-token:
a If it is a “no change” token, there is no special effect.
a If it is the “short runs” token, place the token on the purchasing 
railroad’s charter. Until this railroad has operated again, each 
train (for all railroads) behave as if they were half the size 
(rounded up). For example, a 4-train or 3-train behaves like a 
2-train, while a 5-train behaves like a 3-train. Once the railroad 
has completed its next operating turn, remove the “short runs” 
token from play.

➥
Example: The PRR issues dividends during its 
turn. Its share value token should move to the 
right, but it is at the end of the row, so the token 
moves up to the “350” grid box. The PRR finishes 
its turn and the game ends.
a If it is the “retain revenue” tokens, place the token on the 
purchasing railroad’s charter. Until this railroad has operated 
again, all revenue must be retained by its railroad (i.e., dividends 
may not be paid or split). Once the railroad has completed its 
next operating turn, remove the “retain revenue’ token from play.
It is possible for the “short runs” and “retain revenue” tokens to 
be in play at the same time. It is also possible that neither of these 
tokens will enter play during the game.
After the last 5-train has been bought and the token placed, 
remove the unused token from play. If the “short runs” and/or 
“retain revenue” tokens are in play when this happens, they stay 
in play until the relevant railroad has completed its next operating 
turn.
Stock Sales (6.1)
Starting the with stock round following the purchase of the last 
5-train, and continuing until the end of the game, all sales will 
result in the share value dropping by one row per block of shares 
sold, rather than one row for each share sold. All other rules for 
share sales remain as standard.
Share Value Token Movement (5.5)
Starting with the stock round following the purchase of the last 
5-train, and continuing until the end of the game, the procedure for 
handling share values increases for declaring dividends changes.
 When a dividend is declared for a railroad, its share value may 
move one to four grid boxes on the stock market, depending on the 
value of the dividend and the current share price. 
a If the dividend declared is at least 4 times the share value, move 
the share value token 4 grid boxes. 
a Otherwise, if the dividend declared is at least 3 times the share 
value, move the share value token 3 grid boxes.
a Otherwise, if the dividend declared is at least 2 times the share 
value, move the share value token 2 grid boxes.
a Otherwise, the dividend declared is less than 2 times the share 
value, so move the share value token 1 grid boxes.
Follow standard stock market rules for this movement: i.e. move 
to the right where possible, or up one row otherwise.
End of the Game (8.0)
If the share value of any railroad reaches (or is at) the highest 
value of the stock market during an operating round, the game 
ends after that railroad has finished its turn.

Components (S-6.1)
1 Board — Use the 1830 Classic 
board with hese map changes: 
1) K-13 – add east exit. 
2) K-15 – add west exit. 
3) D-24 – add northwest exit.
2 Railroads — 
The Reading Railroad is a different 
variant. Its President’s certificate 
is worth 3 shares, and it starts in 
H-14 on a C9 track tile oriented 
with track leaving E, W, SE, and 
SW.
3 Track Tiles — Use the 1830 
Classic track tiles. The computer 
game uses four more tiles: 2 more 
B13 tiles and 2 more B14 tiles.
 Other Components — The 
standard components are used.
(S-6.0)	
“Dave? What are you doing...”	
Scenario C	
by Halspot Selene
This scenario presents the rules used and variants provided in 
the 1830 computer game published by Avalon Hill in the 90s. This 
computer game is still available online and can be played using 
emulators on Macs as well as on PCs. 
It is not possible to provide all of the components used in these 
variants (e.g., one variant calls for unlimited track tiles). So, you 
will have to use proxy components and/or components from other 
18xx games. 
(S-6.2)
In the uncustomized game, all of the 1830 Classic rules are in 
effect except as noted below. In addition, you can customize a game 
by choosing certain variants.
Buying Private Companies
A player may not buy a private company from another player. 
(S-6.3)
Each of these variants can be “toggled” on and off. 
Random Revenues
This variant changes the percentage of revenues earned by 
railroads by up to 20%. For example, if you would normally earn 
$100 playing 1830 Classic, you would earn from $80 to $120 with 
this option in play. This option adds an element of unpredictability. 
 Each time a railroad operates, mix the 6 markers numbered 1 to 
6 and randomly pick one (alternatively roll a 6-sided die): 
 if the result is a 1, the revenue is only 80% of normal; 
 if the result is a 2, the revenue is only 90% of normal; 
 if the result is a 3 or 4, the revenue is normal; 
 if the result is a 5, the revenue is 110% of normal; 
 if the result is a 6, the revenue is 120% of normal.
Reading Railroad
This variant makes the Reading Railroad available as a railroad 
corporation. The following effects are also active: 
1) Use the 2 station tiles tiles (bb2, bb7) 
 for the B&O and B&M starting hexes. 
2) Use an extra 4-train. 
3) The maximum number of certificates that 
 each player can hold is increased by one. 
4) See the sidebar for additonal map changes.
Delayed Obsolescence
This variant delays the removal of trains due 
to obsolescence—each train is allowed to run 
and earn revenue one more time after it would 
normally be removed. For example, as soon 
as the first 4-train is purchased, all 2-trains 
are normally removed immediately. With this 
variant in play, each 2-train is allowed to run 
and earn revenue its railroad once more. It will 
 then be removed from play.

Second Edition Credits
Original Design: Francis Tresham
Original Developer: Bruce Shelley
Development: Coleman Charlton, 
Morgan Dontanville, Pete Fenlon
Art: Mark Zug (cover), 
Jared Blando (board), 
Mike Atkinson (trains)
Graphic Design: Pete Fenlon, 
Morgan Dontanville
Production: Ron Magin, 
Coleman Charlton, Pete Fenlon
Proofreading: Henning Kantner, 
Hanno Girke, Larry Roznai, Ron Magin, 
Keith Thomasson
Playtesting: Kurt Fisher, Dallas Pitt, 
Dave Platnick, Al Rorireau, Ron Magin, 
Henning Kantner, Hanno Girke
Special Thanks: Peter Bromley, 
Robert T. Carty, Jr., Dan Decker, 
Bill Fogarty, Nick Johnson, 
Ron Magin, Brad Steffen, Kim 
McBrady, Marty McDonnell, Brad 
McWilliams, Jim Miles, Bridget 
Roznai, Loren Roznai, Guido 
Teuber Bill Wordelmann, Elaine 
Wordelmann, Alex Yeager.
Scenario Design & Development:
S-1.0: Morgan Dontanville 
(see Design Notes)
S-2.0: Hanno Girke
S-3.0: Larry Roznai, Sue Balmes, Don 
Glass, Jim Jewell, Bill Wordelmann, 
Elaine Wordelmann
S-4.0: Darwin Bromley, Peter Bromley, 
Ken Gutermuth, Jeff Jackson
S-5.0: Keith Thomasson
Dedication
This edition of 1830 is dedicated to 
the memory of Gerald Lientz, one of the 
original playtesters and a true gamer.
Unlimited track tiles 
There are an unlimited number of each track 
tile available in 1830 Classic.
Additional Tiles
This variant adds additional track tiles;
	
# New	
	
Tiles	
(old #)	
Notes
	
A9(5)	
2 in tile mix
	
A10(6)	
2 in tile mix
	
B10(26)	
	
B11(27)	
	
B27 (141)	
	
B28 (142)	
	
B29 (143)	
	
B30 (144)	
Delayed Private Company Sales
This variant delays the sale of private companies until after the 
stock round following the purchase of the first 3-Train. 
Short Game
This variant removes $7,500 from the bank. 
Extended Game
This variant adds $8,000 to the bank. You can use pennies or 
some other marker to represent 16 additional $500 bills. 
No Diesels
This variant makes diesels unavailable.
Split Revenues
This variant allows you to divide the revenue for your railroad 
equally between dividends and your railroad. When you do so, 
your railroad’s share value does not change.
Random Map
The computer game can generate random boards, but, of course, 
we cannot detail that process with the standard components 
provided in this game.

Railroad: see corporation.
Revenue: When a railroad operates, it 
may generate revenue based upon the the 
total values of the cities connected by the 
routes its trains run. Each turn a railroad’s 
revenue is either paid out as dividends 
to shareholders or paid entirely into the 
railroad’s treasury. Revenue is also the 
income paid to the owner of an existing 
private company each operating round.
Route: A length of connected track. A 
railroad may “run” a route joining two or 
more cities that does not reverse direction 
at junctions, change track at cross-overs, 
or travel the same track section twice. 
When a railroad is operating more 
than one train, their routes may not be 
coincident, except they may meet or cross 
at cities or use independent tracks on the 
same tile.
Stock market: The grid of prices on 
which railroad tokens are moved to keep 
track of each railroad’s current share 
value.
Stock Round: During this phase of the 
game, the players have the opportunity 
to buy and sell shares. A stock round 
ends when each player has passed in 
succession.
Track Tiles: These yellow, green, and 
brown, and gray hexagonal pieces 
represent the track constructed by the 
railroad corporations.
Station Token: These round colored 
markers depict the logos of the railroads. 
Each railroad has either 2, 3, or 4 station 
tokens that are placed in cities on the 
board.
Trains (train cards): Each train card 
show a large identifying number or letter, 
a corresponding locomotive silhouette, 
and the train’s cost. The number on the 
card is the number of cities the train may 
connect on its route. Diesel (D) trains 
may connect as many cities as they can 
reach.
Upgrade (of a tile): This is the act of 
replacing a yellow tile by removing it 
and placing a green tile in its place (or 
replacing a green tile with a brown one). 
There are detailed rules for upgrading 
(see p. 19 and p. 48).
 awrxrxr Appendix	
awrxrxr
Glossary
Bank: This is the collective term for the money not held by players and 
railroads, plus all unsold private companies, stock certificates, and trains. 
Bank Pool: The space on the board where railroad stock certificates sold by 
players are held and kept separate from the initial offerings.
Banker: The player responsible for handling all transactions involving the 
bank and bank pool.
Bankruptcy: In 1830 Classic, bankruptcy occurs when a railroad is forced 
to purchase a train, and the railroad money and its president’s money (and 
sellable assets) is not enought to cover the train’s cost.
Base City: A city circle or hexagon on the board showing the logo of one the 
game’s eight railroads. At the beginning of a railroad’s first turn of operation 
place a token at no cost in the city showing the logo. The Erie railroad is a 
special case (see 7.3.2).
Board (game board): The game board has the 1830 Classic map on one side 
and the 1830+ map on the other. Both sides show the northeastern United 
States and southeastern Canada. The map is overlaid with a hexagonal grid—
you build your railroad tracks by placing hex tiles on this grid. The board 
also has the stock market and other game elements.
Certificate: Possession one of these cards signifies either the ownership of a 
private company or the ownership of shares in a corporation. 
Corporation Charter: Each railroad corporation has a Charter that is used 
to hold a corporation’s money, tokens, and trains. It also shows information 
about that corporation. 
Corporation (railroad corporation): Each railroad is controled by the 
player with the most shares (i.e., its president) in the corporation that owns 
it. Control of these corporations, the competency of their operation, the size 
and frequency of their dividends, and the value of their shares are the main 
determinates of who wins.
Hexes: The six-sided spaces of the board on which the track tiles are laid.
Initial offering: A corporation’s initial offering consists of its share certificates 
that have never been owned by a player (i.e., purchased or received due to a 
private company’s special effects). The value of a corporation’s initial offering 
share is always the corresponding recorded value on the par value chart. 
Operating Round: During this phase of the game, each active railroad lays 
track, runs its train to generate revenue, buys trains, and performs various 
other activities. Depending on the type of trains in play, there are one to three 
operating rounds between stock rounds.
Par (par price): This is the initial price for the shares of a new railroad 
determined when a player first obtains a previously unowned president’s 
certificate. This is the price of each share in the initial offering. The initial 
capital of a newly floated railroad is ten times its par price.
President: The player holding the 20% president’s certificate in a corporation 
is its president. This player controls the railroad when it is operating, and 
holds its charter and treasury.
President’s Certificate: This is the 20% share certificate of each railroad with 
the word “president” inscribed—its owner is railroad’s president.
Priority Deal Card: This card is given to the player to the left of the last 
player to buy or sell shares in a stock round. That player has the first option 
to buy or sell in the next stock round, with play continuing to his or her left.
Private Company: Each private company is represented by a single certificate 
showing its cost and revenue. Until retired and removed from play, each pays 
a fixed revenue to its owner each operating round. The special effect that each 
has on play is detailed on pages 46 and 47.

Table T-02 – Board Tiles
	
	
	
	
	
	Scenario
	
	
Loc.	 D	 R	 B	 T	 G
coal field Hex (30a)	
	
	
L-8	
coal field Hex (30a)	
	
	
J-10	
SE Warehouse (30b)	
	
	 M-13	 1	
SW Warehouse (30c)	
	
	
L-2	
W Warehouse (30d)	
	
	
F-2	
NW Warehouse (30e)	 	
	
A-11	 1	
NE Warehouse (30f)	
	
	
B-24	 1	
Straight Track (use A-1)	
	 M-11	 1	
Blank (30h)	
	
	
H-4	
Columbus, w/NKP home (30i) 		
H-6	
Blank Gray Lake Erie (30j)	
	
F-6	
Cleveland, w/o C&O home (30k)	
F-8	
Old Detroit (30l)	
	
	
E-5	
Old SW of Toronto Exit (30m)	
E-9	
Roanoke, w/ N&W home (30n)	
L-10	 x	
Richmond, w/o C&O home (30p)		
K-13	 x	
Ottawa, w/ no cost (30q)	
	
B-16	 x	
Toronto, w/30,exits NE,SW (30r)		
D-10	 x	
Blank (30h)	
	
	
C-21	 x	
Note — 1830 Base Game, 1830 Classic, and Scenario C do not use board tiles.
Table T-01 – 
Track Tiles to Remove
Scenario S-1.0 D 
A8 (5).......................................2 
A9 (6).......................................2
bb2 (592)..................................2
Scenario S-2.0 G 
A8 (5).......................................2 
A9 (6).......................................2
B28 (88)....................................1
B29 (204)..................................1
B30 (87)....................................1
bb1 (53)....................................2
ny5 (62)....................................1
oo20 (167)................................1
D4 (513)...................................1
Scenario S-3.0 R 
bb1 (53)....................................2
Scenario S-4.0 B 
bb2 (592)..................................2
bb6 (884)..................................1
bb7 (997)..................................1
ny6 (883)..................................1
oo20 (167)................................1
D4 (513)...................................1
Table T-03 – Trains
	
Price	
	
 	Scenario
Type 	
(w/ Trade-in)	 & Base	 D	 R 
§	 B 
§	 T	 G	 C
$80	
$180	
$300	
5-trains	
 $450	
6-trains 	
$630	
2††	
7-trains 	
$710	
Diesels 	
$1100($800)	
6¥	
7**	
6†
* – Scenario can be used with any train mix.
** – 7 Diesels are provided, but there should be an unlimited number. Just add 
markers if more than 7 are required.
† – A variant is “no diesels.” †† – A variant is a 3rd 6-train.
§ – There is one “plus-train” for each of the train types between 2 and 6: 2+2, 
3+3, 4+4, 5+5, and 6+6. A plus-train is always the last bought of its type. For 
more details, see the scenarios on pages 38 and 39. 
¥ – Diesels cost 900, or 750 if a 4, 5, or 6 train is returned to the bank pool.
Table T-04 — Script Manifest
15 @ $500 = $7500 18 @ $10 =$180
28 @ $100 = $2800 16 @ $5 = $80
20 @ $50 = $1000 40 @ $1 = $40
20 @ $20 = $400 
Total = $12000*
* – For this total, remove: 
 5@ $500, 12@ $100, 2@ $10, and 4@ $5.
30a
30b
30c
30d
30e
30f
30h
30i
30j
30k
30l
30m
30n
30p
30q
30r

Table T-07 — The Phases
	
	
	
	
	
Introduced by	
game	
privates	
3-train	
4-train	
5-train	
6-train	
diesel 
	
start	
sold	
New trains available	
5-trains	
6-trains &	
	
	
	
	
	
	
diesels	
Trains made obsolete 	
New tiles available	
yellow	
green	
brown	
gray
Train limit	
# ORs between SRs	
May buy privates	
n	
Privates removed	
Off-board revenue	
Table T-06 — Variables Due to # of Players
 	
	 Number of Players 
	
Starting money	
1200	
Certificate limit	
Private Co. Split	 SV+DH+CA	
SV+BO	
SV+MH	 SV+CS	
	
CS+MH+BO	
CS+CA	
CS+DH	
DH	
	
DH+MH	
DH 
	
MH	
MH 
	
	
Private 
Companies
(SV, 20/5) 
1  Pittsburgh & Louisville Packet Co. B
(PL, 30/5) — A railroad owning the PL 
may lay a tile on any Ohio river hex with no 
terrain cost (J-2, J-4, 
K-5, J-6, J-8, or I-9). 
This hex need not be 
connected to one of 
the railroad’s stations, 
and it need not be 
connect to any track at all. This free tile 
placement may be performed in addition to 
the railroad’s normal tile placement—on 
that turn only it may play two tiles. 
 Champlain & St. Lawrence
(CS, 40/10) — A railroad owning the 
CS may lay a tile on the CS’s hex (B-20). 
This hex need not be 
connected to one of 
the railroad’s stations, 
and it need not be 
connected to any 
track at all. This tile 
placement may be performed in addition 
to the railroad’s normal tile placement—on 
that turn only it may play two tiles. 
3 C&O Canal B
(CC, 50/10) — A railroad owning the CC 
may build on the hexes 
containing the CC 
(I11-J12) for a terrain 
cost of only $20 each. 
The company is closed 
when tiles have been 
laid on both hexes.
Table T-05— The Private Companies
	
 Use w/	
	
 
Name (Scenario)	
Loc. 	
Special
G-15	
Pittsburgh & 	
PL	
$30 / $5	
I-9	
Extra track lay. 1
	
Louisville  B 
B-20	
Extra track lay. 2
	
C&O Canal B	
CC	
$50 / $10	 I-11/J-12	 Discounted track lays. 3
Potomac & 	
PP	
$60 / $10	
J-10	
Free coal field license. 4
	
Piedmont G
F-16	
Track + free station. 5
D-18	
Exchange for NYC share. 6
James River & 	
JK	
$120 / $20	 K-9/K-11	Free Kanawha license. 7
	
Kanawha D R
H-18	
Free share in PRR. 8
$220 / $30	 I-13/I-15	President share of B&O. 9
Note – The companies used in scenarios are marked brown, numbered circles. 
Other companies are available in all scenarios. 
Tables

Original 1830 Credits
Design: Francis Tresham
Development Team: Francis Tresham, 
Maurice Roth, Richard Waring, Thomas 
Tresham, David Maxwell, Douglas May, 
Mick Uhl, and Bruce Shelley
AH Editor: Bruce Shelley
Cover Painting: James Talbot
Additional Playtesting: Vince Frattali, 
Rex Martin, Cliff Willis, Steve Simmons, 
Gerald Lientz, Edward Fahrmeier, and 
WARTHOG
Dedication
This edition of 1830 is dedicated to 
the memory of Gerald Lientz, one of the 
original playtesters and a true gamer.
  James River & Kanawha D R
 (JK, 120/20) — The initial purchaser of the JK receives a 
free Kanawha license which can not be sold or traded (see p. 
35 for license effects). The railroad owns the JK has the right 
to build on any one (1) hex that is adjacent to the Kanawha 
Coal River hex at half price. This would constitute the 
railroad’s regular tile lay and close the company. The owner still retains the 
license after the JK closes. 
8 Camden & Amboy
(CA, 160/25) — The initial purchaser of the CA 
immediately receives a 10% share of PRR shares without 
further payment. This action does not close the CA. The PRR 
railroad will not be running at this point, but the shares may 
be retained or sold subject to the ordinary rules of the game.
9 Baltimore & Ohio
(BO. 220/30) — The owner of the BO private company 
immediately receives the president’s certificate of the B&O 
railroad without further payment and immediately sets 
a par share value. The BO private company may not be 
sold to any corporation, and does not change hands if the 
owning player loses the presidency of the B&O. When the 
B&O railroad purchases its first train this private company is closed down.
Table T-08 — The Railroads
	
	
Station	 Starting	
 
Initials	 Tokens	 City	
Loc.
Pennsylvania	
PRR	
Altoona	
H-12
New York Central	
NYC	
Albany	
E-19
Canadian Pacific	
CPR	
4	 Montreal	
A-19
B&O	
3	 Baltimore	
I-15
Chesapeake & Ohio	
C&O	
3	 Cleveland	
F-6 
	
	
	 (Richmond) 	(K-13)
Erie	
Erie	
Buffalo	
E-11
New York, New Haven, 	NNH	
2	 New York	
G-19 
 & Hartford
Boston & Maine	
B&M	
Boston	
E-23
Norfolk D R B G	
N&W	
Norfolk	
L-16
 & Western	
	
	 (Roanoke)	 (L-10)
Pere Marquette D R G	 PMQ	
Detroit	
E-5
Nickel Plate B	
NKP	
2	 Columbus	
H-6
Reading C	
RDR	
Reading	
G-15
	
	
	
	
(H-16)
  Potomac & Piedmont G
 (PP, 60/10) — The initial purchaser of 
the PP receives a free New River coal fields 
license which can 
not be sold or traded 
(see p. 35 for effects). 
When the owning 
railroad first runs a 
route including the 
coal fields hex, the PP is closed down. The 
owner retains the license after the PP closes.
5 Delaware & Hudson
(DH, 70/15) — A railroad owning the 
DH may lay a track tile and a station token 
on the DH’s hex (F-16). The mountain 
costs $120 as usual, but laying the token 
is free. This hex need not be connected to 
one of the railroad’s 
stations, and it need 
not be connect to any 
track at all. The tile 
laid does count as the 
owning railroad’s one 
tile placement for his turn. If the DH does 
not lay a station token on the turn it lays the 
tile on its starting hex, it must follow the 
normal rules when placing a station (i.e., 
it must have a legal train route to the hex). 
Other railroads may lay a tile on the DH 
starting hex subject to the ordinary rules, 
after which the DH special effects are no 
longer available.
6 Mohawk & Hudson
(MH, 110/20) — A player owning the 
MH may exchange it for a 10% share of 
NYC, provided he does not already hold 
60% of the NYC shares and there is NYC 
shares available in 
the bank or the pool. 
The exchange may 
be made during the 
player’s turn of a stock 
round or between the 
turns of other players or railroads in either 
stock or operating rounds. This action 
closes the MH.
Tables

A1	
➧ B1-B3, B8-B11
Â 9	
+5	
A2	
➧ B2, B4, B5, B8,
Â 8	
+5	
B9, B12-B14
A3	
➧ B3, B10, B11, 
Â 7	
B13, B14
A4	
➧ B24, B25
Â 4	
A5	
➧ B24, B25, B26,
Â 58	
B27
A6	
➧ B24, B25, B26
Â 3	
A7	
Â 57	
A8	
Â 6	
A9	
Â 5	
A10	
Â 55	
A11	
Â 69	
A12	
Â 2	
A13	
Â 1	
A14	
Â 56	
A15	
Â 630 	
A16	
Â 631 	
A17	
Â 632 	
A18	
Â 633 	
 bb1	
➧ bb5, bb6, bb7
Â 53	
bb2	
➧ bb5, bb6, bb7
Â 592	
bb5 	
Â 61	
bb6 	
Â 884	
	 	
bb7	
Â 997	
	
to1	
➧ to5
Â 810	
to5 	
Â 882	
	 	
 	
 	
 	
B1	
➧ C5, C6
Â 20	
B2	
➧ C7, C8
Â 19	
B3	
➧ C9
Â 18	
B4	
➧ C5
Â 17	
B5	
➧ C9, C10
Â 16	
B8	
➧ C1, C5, C7, C9
Â 23	
B9	
➧ C2, C5, C8, C9
Â 24	
B10	
➧ C2, C6, C7
Â 26	
B11	
➧ C1, C6, C8
Â 27	
B12	
➧ C3, C7, C8
Â 25	
B13	
➧ C4, C8, C10
Â 28	
B14	
➧ C4, C7, C10
Â 29	
B24	
➧ C11, C12, C13
Â 141	
B25	
➧ C11, C12, C13
Â 142	
B26	
➧ C12, C13
Â 143	
B27	
➧ C12
Â 144	
B28	
➧ C11
Â 88	
B29	
➧ C12
Â 204	
B30	
➧ C13
Â 87 	
B35	
Â 14	
B36	
Â 619	
B37	
Â 15	
ny1	
➧ ny5, ny6
Â 54	
ny5 	
Â 62	
	 	
ny6	
Â 883	
	 	
C1	
Â 41	
C2	
Â 42	
C3	
Â 40	
C4	
Â 39	
C5	
Â 47	
C6	
Â 44	
C7	
Â 45	
C8	
Â 46	
C9	
Â 43	
C10	
Â 70	
C11	
Â 145	
C12	
Â 147	
C13	
Â 146	
C15	
➧ D4
Â 63	
oo1	
➧ oo10-oo17
Â 626	
oo2	
➧ oo10-oo17
Â 59	
oo10	 1	
Â 68	
oo11	 1	
Â 67	
oo12	 1	
Â 66	
oo13	 –	
Â 36	
oo14	 –	
Â 35	
oo15	 1	
Â 65	
oo16	 1	
Â 64	
oo17	
Â 984 	
oo20	 –	
Â 167	
D4	
Â 513	
Table T-09 — Track Tile Manifest & Upgrades
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Total 	25
+17
Total 	26
+11
Total 	 0
Total 	34
 	
+23