Rule Changes from Previous Editions..................................2
OVERVIEW............................................................................3
COMPONENTS.....................................................................4
THE POLITICAL CAPITAL BAG......................................5
Support Checks..................................................................5
Initiative Checks................................................................5
Reseeding the Bag..............................................................5
SETTING UP THE GAME...................................................6
SEQUENCE OF PLAY..........................................................6
1. Initiative Phase...............................................................6
2. Activity Phases...............................................................6
A. Play a Card as an Event..............................................6
Persistent Events.......................................................7
Gaining State Support...............................................7
Losing Support..........................................................7
B. Play a Card for Campaign Points...............................7
Triggering Events......................................................7
Preempting Events.....................................................8
B1. Campaigning in States..............................................8
Increasing State Support............................................8
Moving the Candidate Token....................................9
B2. Advertising in Regions.............................................9
B3. Positioning on Issues................................................9
C. Play a Candidate Card..............................................10
3. Momentum Phase........................................................10
Step 1 – Momentum Decay..........................................10
Step 2 – Issue Shift.......................................................10
Step 3 – Momentum Awards & Endorsements.............11
Endorsements..........................................................11
Step 4 – Issue Support Decay.......................................11
4. Campaign Strategy Phase...........................................12
Step 1 – Campaign Strategy.........................................11
Step 2 – Rest.................................................................10
The Debates – Turn 6.......................................................11
1. Determine Initiative..................................................11
2. Campaign Strategy....................................................11
3. Set The Stage............................................................11
4. Debate!......................................................................12
Winning an Issue.....................................................13
Ending the Debates..................................................13
5. After the Debates.......................................................13
Election Day – Turn 9......................................................13
1. Deposit Bonus Cubes................................................13
2. Determine Initiative..................................................13
3. Campaign Strategy....................................................13
4. Election Day Events..................................................13
5. Endorsements and Undecided Voters........................13
6. Final Tally.................................................................14
Unpledged Electors.................................................14
STRATEGY TIPS.................................................................14
Optional Rules
Vice President Cards..........................................................14
Restricted Positioning........................................................14
A SAMPLE TURN................................................................15
Initiative Phase...................................................................15
Activity Phases..................................................................15
Momentum Phase..............................................................16
Campaign Strategy Phase..................................................16
Debates – Turn 6................................................................16
Election Day – Turn 9........................................................17
Election Day Events..........................................................18
Endorsements and Undecided Voters................................18
Final Tally..........................................................................18
Map of 1960 Election............................................................19
PLAYER AID........................................................................20
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Rule Changes from Previous Editions
Support Checks
Players must now make Support Checks for events which 
grant State Support in states carried or currently occupied by 
their opponent, just as if they were Campaigning.
Momentum Phase
The player with the most media support may now shift 
issues before momentum and endorsements are awarded 
rather than after.
Election Day
At the start of Election Day, players now add bonus cubes 
to the bag equal to their total media support in addition to 
the media support cubes themselves.
Tiebreaker
While the first tiebreaker remains the player who won the 
most states, the second tiebreaker is now the player who has 
the most total state support.
Credits
Designer: Christian Leonhard and Jason Mathews
Developer: Christian Leonhard
Art Director & Package Design: Rodger MacGowan
Box Art and Design: Rodger MacGowan
Map & Counters: Donal Hegarty and Mark Simonitch
Cards: Donal Hegarty
Manual: Charles Kibler
Playtesters: Dan O’Brien, Simon Halder, Mike Herms, Erin 
Leonhard, John Leonhard, Dani Val
Proofreading: Kai Jensen
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, 
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch

All elections are turning points, but the presidential election of 
1960 holds a special place in American history. The 1950s had 
been a period of unparalleled economic growth and US global 
power under the stewardship of President Dwight Eisenhower 
and his Vice President, Richard Nixon. Nixon’s humble origins 
gave him a common touch that appealed to small-town America 
and encompassed the idyllic spirit of the 1950s. Senator John 
F. Kennedy was in many ways Nixon’s antithesis; charming, 
Harvard-educated, and the scion of an American political dy-
nasty. Kennedy challenged Americans to confront the emerging 
uncertainties of the era, not with a vision based in the past, but 
embracing the future’s new frontiers.
In 1960: The Making of the President, you take on the role of 
one of these formidable opponents as they vie to lead America. 
As candidates, players must contend with all of the great issues 
of the day, from the Cold War and the voters’ pocketbooks to 
civil rights and religious intolerance. The contest is fought out 
on an electoral map of the United States as it stood in 1960. 
Using a card-driven game system, all of the major events which 
shaped the actual campaign are represented: Nixon’s Lazy 
Shave, Eisenhower’s belated endorsement, and Mayor Daley’s 
Late Returns from Cook County are just a few of the many 
specific event cards players will encounter. The famous tele-
vised debates are also a pivotal element of gameplay.
As with a real election campaign, the challenge is to adapt 
your game plan as the ground shifts beneath your feet. There 
are never enough resources or time to do everything that needs 
doing. You will need to make tough calls about where to expend 
your effort and momentum. Your sole objective is to propel 
yourself into the White House. This fast-playing strategy game 
for two players challenges you to relive the most significant 
political contest of the Twentieth Century.
Will you recreate history, or rewrite it?
1960: The Making of the President provides you the opportu-
nity to do both.
Overview
The goal in 1960: The Making of the President is to claim a 
majority of electoral votes on Election Day. To do so, you must 
win states worth a larger combined electoral value than your 
opponent. Electoral votes are won by gaining State Support in 
individual states. This support is represented by cubes placed 
as state support into states. As only one player may have sup-
port cubes in a particular state at a time, Support will shift back 
and forth as the players battle over valuable states. Whichever 
player manages to have support cubes in a state at the end of 
the game claims that state’s electoral votes.
Players may also supplement their campaign efforts with Me-
dia and Issue Support. Media Support is represented by cubes 
placed as media support into different regional advertising 
boxes. It facilitates campaigning on a regional level. Issue Sup-
port is represented by cubes placed as issue support onto issue 
tiles. It helps players to gain Momentum and valuable Endorse-
ments capable of tipping states in their favor on Election Day.
All three types of Support are similar in that only a single player 
may ever have support cubes in the same place at the same 
time. When a player gains support cubes in a location already 
occupied by opposing cubes, he first reduces or eliminates his 
opponent’s cubes as needed. Any support cubes left over once 
all opposing cubes have been removed are added to the board 
normally.
This same restriction is also true of Endorsements: when a 
player gains endorsement markers in a region where the op-
posing player already has an endorsement marker, the opposing 
marker must first be eliminated.
Most turns consist of playing cards either as Events or for 
Campaign Points (CP) that may be spent on campaign opera-
tions designed to gain State, Media, or Issue Support. Events 
can have a wide range of effects that often involve gains or 
losses of these three types of Support as well. The objective is 
to maximize the impact of Events that favor your own candi-
date while minimizing the impact of those which further your 
opponent’s interests. Momentum serves this goal by enabling 
players to spend momentum markers in order to trigger favor-
able Events on cards played by their opponent. Alternatively, 
momentum may be used to preempt negative Events on your 
own cards so your opponent cannot do the same.
John F. Kennedy
Richard M. Nixon

*	Note: Some extra wooden pieces 
are provided for the sole purpose of 
replacing lost/damaged pieces.
Components
•	 The Board
•	 Campaign Manual (this booklet)
•	 50 State Seals
•	 3 Issue tiles
•	 2 Candidate tokens
•	 12 Momentum markers
•	 2 Turn Track & Phase Track markers
•	 170 Cubes (85 blue, 85 red)*
•	 15 Endorsement markers
•	 97 Campaign cards
•	 2 Candidate cards
•	 2 Prevention Event markers
•	 16 Endorsement cards
•	 The Political Capital bag
•	 The Debate Board
Rest Cube
Zone (Kennedy)
Card Stack (Kennedy)
Persistent Events
Card Stacks
Issues
Prevention Event 
Rest Cube
Zone (Nixon)
Card Stack (Nixon)
Turn
Phase
Advertising
State
West
Midwest
South
East
The Board:
Sample Game Pieces:
Edge 
Indicator
(Red for 
Nixon;
Blue for 
Kennedy)
Electoral
Votes
State Name &
Abbreviation
Candidate Icon
(red elephant for Nixon;
blue donkey for Kennedy)
Sample State Box
State Seal
Issue tile
Momentum markers
Candidate tokens
Cubes 
(red = Nixon; 
blue = Kennedy)
Turn Track & 
Phase Track
markers
Endorsement markers
Prevention 
Event markers

The Political Capital Bag
Players place cubes into the 
Political Capital Bag at the 
end of each turn. These 
cubes are drawn from the 
bag as part of several game 
actions. Often, the cubes determine the suc-
cess or failure of a particular action.
Support Checks
Cubes are commonly drawn from the bag for 
Support Checks. A Support Check involves 
drawing a single cube from the bag in hopes 
of gaining a particular type of Support (State, 
Media, or Issue). If the player draws a cube 
of his own color, he may place it as a support 
cube in the appropriate location. If it is the 
opposing player’s color, it must be returned 
to that player’s cube supply.
Initiative Checks
The other way cubes are drawn is as an 
Initiative Check. Initiative Checks are made 
at the start of each turn to determine which 
player has the initiative. Usually, the player 
with initiative decides who acts first that turn. 
During the Debates and on Election Day, 
initiative confers other advantages instead. 
(See the Debates section 1 and Election Day 
sections 2 and 3.) To resolve an Initiative 
Check, draw cubes from the bag one at a 
time until two cubes of the same color have 
been drawn; the player who had two of their 
own cubes drawn gains the initiative for that 
turn. All cubes drawn from the bag during 
an Initiative Check are returned to the 
player’s supply.
Reseeding the Bag
If the Political Capital Bag becomes 
depleted of cubes at any point before 
the Campaign Strategy phase on Elec-
tion Day at the end of the game, it should 
be reseeded with twelve cubes from each 
player.
Sample Event Card:
Card Name
Event Bar
(Persistent 
Events only)
Event text
Campaign 
Points
(CP) value
Historical text
Card ID#
Historical
photograph
State Selector
Debate Issue 
Rest cubes
Back
The back of each Candidate Card is called the Exhausted side.
name
Sample Candidate Card:
Front
portrait
Info
text
Candidate 
home state
Campaign 
Points
(CP) value

Setting Up The Game
•	 Place the state seals face-up in their corresponding states.
•	 Place the appropriate number of state support cubes in each 
state as indicated by candidate icons; each icon represents 
one point of starting Support.
•	 Place the candidate tokens in their home states; Kennedy in 
Massachusetts, Nixon in California.
•	 Place the issue tiles on their indicated spaces on the Issues 
Track.
•	 Place the Turn Track and Phase Track markers (white cubes) 
on the first spaces of the Turn and Phase Tracks.
•	 Each player should choose a side and take:
•	 The cube supply of the appropriate color.
•	 The appropriate Candidate Card.
•	 Two momentum markers.
•	 Seed the Political Capital Bag with twelve cubes from each 
player.
•	 Shuffle the Campaign Card deck and place it facedown near 
the board.
•	 Shuffle the Endorsement Card deck and place it facedown 
near the board with the stockpile of Endorsement Markers.
•	 Set the Debate Board aside for now; it will not be used until 
Turn 6 – The Debates.
Note: Cube, endorsement marker, and momentum marker 
totals are not absolute. In the unlikely event that players run 
short during the game, they should use convenient replace-
ments, such as coins.
Sequence of Play
The game consists of nine turns. Each turn represents roughly 
one week of the campaign. With the exception of Turn 6 (the 
Debates) and Turn 9 (Election Day), these turns all share the 
following sequence of play:
•	 Initiative Phase
•	 Five Activity Phases
•	 Momentum Phase
•	 Campaign Strategy Phase
Throughout the game, the markers on the Turn and Phase Tracks 
should be advanced to reflect the current turn and phase.
1. Initiative Phase
New Cards: Each player is dealt a new hand of cards. On the first 
five turns (before the Debates), players are dealt six cards; on the 
last two turns (after the Debates), players are dealt seven cards. 
If the deck is depleted, shuffle the discards to form a new deck.
Reminder: After the Debates, players receive seven cards per 
turn rather than six.
Initiative: An Initiative Check is made to determine who gets to 
choose the start player for the turn. The player with the initia-
tive may select the start player, who will play first during each 
Activity Phase of this turn.
Tip: While it is generally advantageous to force your opponent 
to play first, it may sometimes be more valuable to take the 
first action of the turn. Choose wisely!
2. Activity Phases
There are five Activity Phases per turn. Each phase, both players 
play and resolve a single card, beginning with the start player. 
On their turn, players have several options:
	 A) Play a Card as an Event
	 B) Play a Card for Campaign Points
	 C) Play a Candidate Card
Additionally, players always collect the number of rest cubes 
indicated on their chosen card (if any). These are cubes taken 
from the player’s supply and placed in their Rest Cube Zone 
on the board. During the Campaign Strategy Phase, these rest 
cubes are deposited into the Political Capital Bag.
EXAMPLE: The Turn & Phase Tracks. In this example, it is 
the third phase of the second turn.
EXAMPLE: The Kennedy player 
plays this Campaign Card, which 
indicates a gain of two Rest Cubes 
…so the player moves two cubes 
from his supply to his Rest Cube 
Zone.
Reminder: Do not forget to take your rest cubes! It is a good 
idea to get into the habit of taking them as soon as you play a 
card, before resolving its effects.
A) Play a Card as an Event
When a card is played as an Event, its event text is read and 
resolved. After resolving the Event, the card is removed from 
the game. If the Event has an effect which lasts for the remain-
der of the turn, the card should be kept in front of the affected 
player as a reminder until the end of the turn, then it may be 
removed normally.

Persistent Events
Some Events, identified by a special bar just under their card 
name, have effects that remain in play for the duration of the 
game. These cards should be placed on the designated spaces 
on the board, identified by the bar under their card name. Each 
category has its own designated space on the board.
•	 Debate Events are resolved during the Debates – Turn 6.
•	 Election Day Events are resolved on Election Day – Turn 9.
•	 Prevention Events render certain other Events unplayable.
A marker is provided for each Prevention 
Event. When a Prevention Event occurs, 
place its marker in the corresponding box on 
the board as a reminder that the Event is in 
effect.
EXAMPLE: This card is identified 
as an Election Day Event. When 
played as an event, it is placed in 
the Election Day Events space on 
the board, and will be resolved 
when Election Day is reached.
Gaining State Support
When Events allow players to add State Support, they must 
make Support Checks for states carried or currently occupied 
by their opponent as described for the Campaigning action (see 
Increasing State Support, below). 
As with Campaigning, players who wish to add multiple State 
Support to a state where Support Checks are required must first 
declare how many Support will be added there before drawing 
the declared number of cubes.
Losing Support
Whenever an Event refers to a player subtracting or losing 
Support, this effect is always limited to what the player has on 
board. The opposing player never gains support cubes, even if 
this means none of the penalty can be applied.
EXAMPLE: The East Harlem 
Pledge event states that Nixon los-
es one support in the Civil Rights 
issue as well as five State Support 
in the South. If the Nixon player 
had no support cubes on Civil 
Rights at the time this event took 
place, he would have nothing to 
lose there; the Kennedy player 
would not gain Issue Support.
Similarly, if he had only three state support cubes in the 
South, he would lose only those three cubes; Kennedy would 
not gain the remaining two Support.
Reminder: Once a card has been played as an Event, it is 
never placed in the discard pile! Persistent Events are placed 
on the designated spaces on the board; the rest are removed 
from the game.
B) Play a Card for Campaign Points
When a card is played for Campaign Points, the player may 
spend the number of Campaign Points (CP) indicated on the 
card to perform one of three possible actions:
	 B1) Campaigning in States
	 B2) Advertising in Regions
	 B3) Positioning on Issues
A player may choose only one of these options during a particular 
Activity Phase. Campaign Points for a single card may not be 
split between different types of action. 
Regardless of how these points are spent, the opposing player 
has the opportunity to trigger the Event as described below. 
After resolving the action, the card is placed in the discard pile 
(unless triggered, see below). 
Triggering Events 
After a card has been played for Campaign 
Points and resolved, the opposing player 
may trigger the Event by spending one 
momentum marker. Doing so causes the 
Event on the card to be resolved exactly as 
if the triggering player had just played it from 
his own hand. After it is resolved, the card is removed from the 
game just as it would have been had it been played as an Event 
in the first place.
Note: A player does not receive rest cubes for triggering an 
Event on an opponent’s card! The rest cubes for any card 
always go to the player who played it, regardless of how it 
was played.
Tip: Wait for when your opponent plays a card with your 
candidate icon on it—the event on that card benefits you, and 
it might be worth spending the momentum marker to trigger it.

Preempting Events 
A player may prevent his opponent from 
triggering an event by spending two 
momentum markers at the time he plays 
a card. If the Event is preempted, the op-
posing player may not trigger it, and the 
card is discarded normally. A player may 
only preempt Events on his own cards. He 
may not prevent his opponent from playing 
a card from his own hand as an Event.
Note: A player announces his preemption of an event at the 
time the card is played, and before resolving his action. The 
opposing player need not reveal whether or not he intends 
to trigger the Event until after this decision has been made.
B1. Campaigning in States
With this action, players increase their State Support by add-
ing state support cubes to individual states. At any given time, 
a player is said to be leading a state if he has any state support 
cubes there. A player with at least four state support cubes in 
a state is said to be carrying that state. The primary benefits of 
these conditions are:
•	 The player leading each state at the end of the game receives 
that state’s electoral votes. The player with the most electoral 
votes wins the game.
•	 A player carrying a state forces his opponent to make Support 
Checks when attempting to add state support cubes to that 
state.
Tip: As an added visual indicator, you may want to flip over 
the state seal in a carried state to show the reverse side. This 
is not necessary, but it can be helpful as a reminder.
EXAMPLE: Kennedy is leading in Idaho with two State 
Support …while Nixon is carrying Wyoming with four State 
Support there.
To perform this action, a player spends his card’s Campaign 
Points to increase his State Support in one or more states within 
the region currently occupied by his candidate token. Campaign 
Points may also be used to move a player’s candidate token to 
a different region. Players are not restricted to one or the other 
option. They may freely divide their Campaign Points as they 
choose, and may switch back and forth between traveling and 
adding State Support.
EXAMPLE: This card grants 2 
Campaign Points (CP) when 
played.
Increasing State Support
Each Campaign Point may usually be spent to add one state 
support cube to any state in a candidate’s current region. Under 
certain circumstances, however, a player must make a Support 
Check for each Campaign Point spent to gain cubes. There are 
two instances that require a Support Check:
•	 If the opposing player is carrying that state, and/or
•	 If the opposing player’s candidate token is present in that state
However, a player is exempted from such Support Checks in 
any region where they have Media Support. Therefore, a player 
with media support cubes in a region does not have to conduct 
Support Checks.
Players Campaigning in a state where they are required to make 
Support Checks must first declare how many Campaign Points 
will be spent there during that Activity Phase. The player then 
draws the declared number of cubes according to the Support 
Check process.

EXAMPLE: The Kennedy play-
er is currently carrying New 
York with four Support. The 
Nixon player wishes to Cam-
paign there using 4 CP. Since 
the state is currently carried by 
Kennedy, the Nixon player must 
make Support Checks.
The Nixon player declares that 
he will spend all 4 CP in New 
York, so thus draws four cubes 
from the bag: he gets two red 
and two blue. Since only two 
of the checks are successful 
(his own color), Nixon gains 
only two Support there, which 
results in Kennedy’s State Support being reduced to 2. Ken-
nedy still leads in New York, but is no longer carrying it.
If Nixon had media sup-
port cubes in the East, on 
the other hand, no Support 
Checks would have been 
required and his 4 CP 
would have instead re-
duced Kennedy’s four Sup-
port in New York to zero.
in the same place at the same time.
If you gain support cubes in a location already occupied by 
opposing cubes, each cube gained there—instead of being 
placed in the location—allows you to remove one opposing 
cube from the location.
Each such removed cube (and the cube “spent” to remove it) 
is returned to its owners’ supply.
If you have any support cubes left over once all the opposing 
cubes have been removed, those remaining cubes are then 
added to the location normally.
Moving the Candidate Token
Each time a player spends a Campaign Point to in-
crease his State Support, his candidate token should 
be moved to the state in which he is Campaigning. 
There is no cost associated with this movement, as 
long as it is within the region currently occupied by 
a player’s candidate.
For movement purposes only, Alaska and Hawaii are considered 
to be in their own regions; otherwise they are considered to be 
part of the Western region.
However, if a player wishes to move his candidate token to a 
different region he must pay travel costs of 1 CP each time he 
crosses a regional boundary. Note that travel between Western 
and Eastern regions requires crossing two such boundaries, 
and travel to or from Alaska or Hawaii can only be done via 
the Western region.
Note: While both Alaska and Hawaii are nominally part of the 
Western region, each is enclosed by its own regional boundary 
that must be crossed when traveling to or from these states.
As each of these states may be reached by way of the Western 
region, travel between the two would require crossing both 
of these boundaries at a cost of 2 CP.
EXAMPLE: The Kennedy candidate token is currently located 
in Illinois, but the Kennedy player wishes to Campaign in 
New York using a 3-CP card.
He could spend 1 CP in travel costs to cross from the Midwest 
into the East, and 2 CP in New York.
Alternatively, he could spend a single point in New York and 
spend the remaining 1 CP in any state in the East, or in the 
Midwest prior to leaving that region.
He could even use the third point on additional travel costs and 
cross into the South, coming to rest in any state in that region.
1 CP to
cross from
Midwest to
East
2 CP
in NY
in any
Midwestern
state
1 CP to
cross from
East to
South
in another
Eastern
state
in NY
B2. Advertising in Regions
With this action, players attempt to increase 
their Media Support by adding media support 
cubes to regional advertising boxes on the 
board. Media Support has two primary ef-
fects:
•	 When Campaigning in a region where they have media support 
cubes, players are exempt from the Support Check requirement 
imposed when placing state support cubes in a state carried 
by (or occupied by) their opponent.
•	 If either player has more media support cubes on the board 
than their opponent during the Momentum Phase, they may 
switch the positions of two adjacent issues on the Issues Track.
To perform this action, a player makes a number of Support 
Checks equal to the number of Campaign Points provided by 
his card. When a player draws a cube of his own color, it may 
be placed into any regional advertising box or used to remove 
an opposing cube as appropriate.

EXAMPLE: Nixon has one 
media support cube in the 
East and there are no media 
support cubes for either player 
in any other region. The Ken-
nedy player plays a 3 CP card 
to Advertise and makes three 
Support Checks, drawing two red cubes and one blue.
This gives the Kennedy player one media support cube to 
place, which could be used to remove Nixon’s cube from 
the East or simply placed in any region where Nixon has no 
Media Support. The two drawn red cubes would be returned 
to the Nixon player’s cube supply.
3 CP available
Draw:
in the same advertising box at the same time.
The usual “remove opposing cubes first” rules apply when 
adding media support.
B3. Positioning on Issues
With this action, players increase their Issue Support by adding 
cubes to issue tiles A player is said to be the leader in an issue 
if he has any issue support cubes on that tile. There are two 
primary benefits to leading an issue:
•	 Many Events benefit the leader in a particular issue.
•	 The leaders of each issue tile receive rewards of momentum 
markers and/or endorsement cards (see Momentum Phase, 
Step 2).
To perform this action, a player spends his card’s Campaign 
Points to increase his Issue Support in one or more issues, with 
the first cube in an issue costing 1 CP and each additional cube 
in the same issue costing a further 2 CP. This increased cost 
applies only to multiple support cubes bought in a single issue 
as part of the same action. An additional cube placed on that 
issue as part of a subsequent action costs only the normal 1 CP.
on the same issue tile at the same time.
The usual “remove opposing cubes first” rules apply when 
adding issue support.
EXAMPLE: A player could spend 3 CP to increase all three 
issues by one support cube, or to increase a single issue by 
two cubes (1 CP for the first cube and 2 CP for the second).
On his next action, if he wished, he could play another 3 CP 
card and have the same choices.
3 CP available
2 CP
OR
C) Play a Candidate Card
Instead of playing a card from his hand, a player may choose to 
play his Candidate Card for 5 CP. This is resolved in exactly 
the same way as playing any other card for Campaign Points, 
with one exception:
 Candidate Cards are flipped 
over to their Exhausted side 
after being played. While 
flipped to its Exhausted 
side, a Candidate Card 
should be treated as out of 
play in the same manner as 
a card played as an Event. 
Candidate Cards may only 
be returned to their active face by play of specific Events.
Note: Candidate Cards are not considered to be part of a 
player’s hand and are never placed in the discard pile.
3. Momentum Phase
Step 1 – Momentum Decay
At the start of the Mo-
mentum Phase, both play-
ers must discard half of 
their momentum markers, 
rounded down. 
Step 2 – Issue Shift
Then, the player with the 
most media support cubes 
on the board may switch 
the positions of two ad-
jacent issue tiles on the 
Issues Track. If both play-
ers have an equal number, 
neither may do this.

Step 3 – Momentum Awards & Endorsements
After adjusting the Issues Track, players are awarded momentum 
markers and/or Endorsement Cards for leading each issue based 
on its current position on the Issues Track:
•	 Third-place Issue: one momentum marker
•	 Second-place Issue: one momentum marker or one Endorse-
ment Card
•	 First-place Issue: one momentum marker and one Endorse-
ment Card
These benefits are awarded in the order indicated above. In 
other words, the player winning the second-place issue must 
decide whether they wish to take an Endorsement Card (and, if 
so, must resolve that card) before the first-place winner resolves 
their Endorsement Card.
Endorsements
When a player draws an Endorsement Card, 
they immediately place one endorsement 
marker into the region indicated on the card. 
Endorsement markers are placed into the 
marked spots in the regional advertising 
boxes and follow the same rule as with sup-
port cubes: if the opposing player already has one or more en-
dorsement markers in the same region, the player must remove 
one of these markers instead of placing one.
Step 4 – Issue Support Decay
At the end of the Momentum Phase, one issue support cube is 
removed from each issue tile that has any. 
Reminder: Issues are shifted and momentum decays before 
new momentum markers are awarded; Issue Support decays 
after.
4. Campaign Strategy Phase
Step 1 – Campaign Strategy
Both players play one or two cards from their hand facedown 
to their Campaign Strategy Card Stack on the board:
•	 On the first five turns (before the Debates), players must place 
exactly one card.
•	 On the last two turns (after the Debates), players must place 
exactly two cards.
If either player has any cards remaining in their hand after they 
have done so, those extra cards must immediately be discarded.
Tip: During the first five turns, you are setting Campaign 
Strategy cards aside for the Debates. These cards should 
have high Campaign Point values and should feature your 
own candidate’s icon.
After the Debates, you are setting cards aside for Election 
Day. These cards should have state abbreviations for states 
in which you are looking to pick up extra help.
Note: The four 
Gathering Mo-
mentum cards may 
not be played as 
cards! Players must 
make sure to retain 
a valid Campaign 
Strategy card in their 
hand until the Campaign 
Strategy Phase.
Step 2 – Rest
Both players deposit their rest cubes (cubes in their Rest Cube 
Zone) into the Political Capital Bag.
The Debates – Turn 6
On the sixth turn, the normal sequence of play is not followed. 
Instead, the process described below is used to resolve the De-
bates, after which the normal sequence of play resumes with the 
seventh turn on the board. There are several steps to the Debates:
•	 Determine Initiative
•	 Campaign Strategy
•	 Set the Stage
•	 Debate!
•	 After the Debates
1. Determine Initiative
An Initiative Check is made to determine who has the initiative 
for the duration of the Debates. The player with the initiative 
wins any ties that occur on an issue.
Reminder: Remember during the Debates to apply all effects 
of any Debate Event cards that are in the Persistent Events 
Card Stack on the board. Those cards can have a significant 
effect on the outcome of the Debates.
2. Campaign Strategy
Both players retrieve the five cards from their own Campaign 
Strategy Card Stack.
3. Set the Stage
Place the Debate Board between the two players. Remove all 
three issue tiles from the Issues Track and place them into the 
corresponding spots on the Debate Board—the first place issue 
goes onto the spot labeled “First Place Issue” and so on.

Note: Retain any issue support cubes on the issue tiles while 
moving them.
4. Debate!
Each player selects one of his cards, and then each reveals the 
cards simultaneously. Each of these cards is then placed face-
up next to the issue indicated by its debate icon. It is placed on 
the side of the Debate Board corresponding to the player whose 
candidate icon is shown on the card. If a card shows icons for 
both candidates, the player may place it to either side. In the 
event that both players play such cards, the player with the 
initiative may decide who will place their card first.
	 Civil Rights	
Economy	
Defense
Debate Icons
	
Nixon	
Kennedy
Candidate Icons
This process is repeated until two cards have been played to 
the same side of an issue. At this point, that issue has been won 
by the player having the higher Campaign Point total played to 
their side of that issue. If both players have the same total, the 
player with the initiative wins that issue. In the event that two 
issues are won simultaneously, they are resolved in ascending 
order, with the issue in lowest original from the Issues Track 
being resolved first.
The Kennedy player reveals the Fifty 
Stars card, which shows the Defense 
debate icon and shows both candidate 
icons. The player places the card next to 
the Defense issue tile and has the choice 
of which side of the Debate Board to 
place it on; he chooses his side of the 
Debate Board.
EXAMPLE: The Nixon player reveals the The Great Seal 
Bug card, which shows the Economy debate icon and the Nix-
on candidate icon. 
The player places 
the card next to the 
Economy issue tile 
on his side of the 
Debate Board.
EXAMPLE: Continuing from the previ-
ous example, the Nixon player reveals 
the Congressional Summer Session 
card, which shows his own candidate 
icon and the Defense debate icon. The 
Kennedy player reveals the Nixon’s 
Pledge card, which shows his own can-
didate icon and the Defense debate icon 
as well. After both cards are properly 
placed, we can see that there are two 
cards on one side (the Kennedy side) of the Defense issue. 
Totaling the CP on each player’s side of the Defense issue, 
we see that Kennedy has 6 CP there and Nixon only has 4 
CP there. Kennedy wins the Defense issue!

Winning An Issue
The moment an issue is won, that issue tile is immediately 
returned to the lowest unoccupied position on the Issues Track. 
Any cards played to either side of it are moved to the discard 
pile. In addition, the player who won that issue is awarded a 
bonus of state support cubes that are immediately placed in one 
or more states of their choice: 
•	 First issue awarded: 2 state support cubes 
•	 Second issue awarded: 3 state support cubes 
•	 Last issue awarded: 4 state support cubes 
No Support Checks are required for these cubes, even in states 
carried or currently occupied by the opposing player.
Once an issue has been won, no further cards may be played to 
that issue. If a player plays a card associated with an issue which 
has already been won, that card is instead discarded.
Note: Again, make sure to retain any issue support cubes on 
the issue tiles while returning them to the Issues Track.
Ending the Debates
This process is repeated until all three issue have been won, or 
until both players have played all five of their cards, whichever 
occurs first. At this point, any issues that have not yet been won 
are resolved in ascending order. The issue in lowest original 
position from the Issues Track is resolved first. Each issue is 
won by the player with the higher Campaign Point total played 
to their side of that issue. If both players have the same total, 
the player with the initiative wins that issue.
5. After the Debates
At the end of the Debates, all Campaign Strategy cards for both 
players, whether played or unplayed, are discarded and the nor-
mal sequence of play resumes with the seventh turn.
Debate Events 
Remember during the Debates to apply 
all effects of any Debate Event cards that 
are in the Persistent Events Card Stack 
on the board. After the Debates are over, 
those cards may be discarded.
Election Day – Turn 9
On the ninth turn, the normal sequence of play is not followed. 
Instead, the process described below is used to resolve Election 
Day and determine the winner of the game:
•	 Deposit Bonus Cubes
•	 Determine Initiative
•	 Campaign Strategy
•	 Election Day Events
•	 Endorsements and Undecided Voters
•	 Final Tally
1. Deposit Bonus Cubes
Each player adds a number of cubes from his cube supply to 
the Political Capital Bag equal to the number of media support 
cubes he has on the board, then removes all his media support 
cubes and issue support cubes from the board and deposits those 
into the bag as well. Also, each player exchanges any remaining 
momentum markers at this time. He places two cubes into the bag 
from his cube supply for each momentum marker exchanged.
2. Determine Initiative
An Initiative Check is made to determine who has the initiative 
for the duration of Election Day.
3. Campaign Strategy
Both players retrieve the four cards from their respective Cam-
paign Strategy Card Stacks and reveal them. For each of these 
cards, the player gains three Support Checks in the state indicated 
on that card. The player with the initiative resolves his cards first.
Note: If the Political Capital Bag runs out of cubes at this 
point, it is not refilled.
4. Election Day Events
Any Election Day Events played during the game are retrieved 
from the designated space on the board and resolved. The player 
with the initiative chooses the order in which these Events are 
resolved.
5. Endorsements and Undecided Voters
At this point, any state that currently contains no state support 
cubes for either player will tip toward one player or the other. If 
either player has an endorsement marker in that state’s region, 
that player wins the state and may place a state support cube 
there. If neither player has an endorsement marker in that region, 
it goes to the player indicated by that state’s edge (blue edge 
indicates Kennedy, red edge indicates Nixon), and that player 
may place a state support cube there.

6. Final Tally
Players should now claim the state seal for every 
state where they have state support cubes. At this 
point, players may total up their electoral votes 
(displayed on the backs of the state seals) and de-
termine the winner.
Note: There are a total of 537 electoral votes available, which 
means any player who takes at least 269 of them has won 
the game!
Tip: One easy way to simplify the math of totaling up your 
electoral votes is by grouping your collected state seals into 
sets adding up to 50 votes each.
Unpledged Electors
If the Unpledged Electors Event is 
in play, it is possible that one or more 
states that Kennedy is leading but not 
carrying will not be awarded to either 
player. This makes it possible for a 
player to win with fewer than 269 
electoral votes, obviously, and it also 
introduces the possibility of a tie.
In the extremely unlikely event of a 
tie in electoral votes due to the Un-
pledged Electors Event, the decision 
goes to the House of Representatives, with the winner being the 
player who won the largest number of states. Should players 
somehow manage to achieve a tie in this as well, the winner is 
the player with the largest total number of state support cubes 
across all states.
Strategy Tips
Gathering Momentum
The Campaign Deck contains four 
Gathering Momentum cards, one for 
each region. These Events grant which-
ever player is leading more states in a 
particular region two benefits: a mo-
mentum marker and, more signifi-
cantly, one state support cube in every 
state in that region which currently 
contain no cubes for either player. 
These Events can be extremely power-
ful early in the game, particularly in 
the East and the Midwest. Try to gain the advantage in these 
regions if you can, and watch out for your opponent’s attempt 
to do the same. Even if you don’t think you can get the upper 
hand in one of these regions, you can often limit the damage 
these cards can do by leaving as few states empty of Support as 
possible.
Gaffe
Due to the defensive benefit of candi-
date presence, it is often advantageous 
to park your candidate token in a valu-
able state if you and your opponent are 
both in the same region. Beware the 
Gaffe Event, however, which robs you 
not only of a momentum marker, but 
of three state support cubes in your 
current state as well.
Optional Rules
Vice President Cards
During Setup, each player removes their Vice President Card 
from the Campaign Card deck, placing it to one side with their 
Candidate Card. On any turn, instead of playing a card from 
their hand normally, a player may instead choose to discard 
any card which features only his own candidate icon (i.e., 
not their opponent’s) and play his Vice President Card as if 
from his hand. If a player does not have such a card in hand 
to discard, he may not play his Vice President Card.
Note: Kennedy’s VP is Lyndon Johnson; Nixon’s VP is 
Henry Cabot Lodge.
Restricted Positioning
When spending Campaign Points on Issue Support, a player 
may not add Support to the issue corresponding to the debate 
icon featured on their card (if any). This restriction applies 
only to the Positioning on Issues action, and does not affect 
Issue Support granted by Events.

A Sample Turn
Initiative Phase
The first two cubes drawn for the Initiative Check are split, 
one blue and one red, so a third cube is drawn to determine the 
winner. The result is a second blue cube, giving Kennedy the 
initiative. He chooses to have Nixon play first this turn.
Activity Phase 1
Nixon plays Heartland Of America 
for 3 CP, which he spends on a Posi-
tioning action to give himself two 
points of issue support in Defense. In 
addition, he receives one rest cube for 
this card, which he places in his desig-
nated rest cube zone.
Then, Kennedy plays Nixon’s Pledge 
as an Event. For the remainder of the 
turn, he will gain a momentum marker 
each time Nixon plays a card as any-
thing other than a Campaigning action.
Activity Phase 2
Nixon plays New England for 3 CP, 
which he spends on a Campaigning 
action to add three state support cubes 
in California. He also collects one rest 
cube.
Kennedy chooses to expend one of his 
momentum markers at this point to trig-
ger the New England Event, allowing 
him to increase his state support by two 
in New York, two in Massachusetts 
(bringing his total support there to 4, 
meaning he now carries that state), and one in Connecticut.
Kennedy then plays the Nixon’s Knee 
Event. For the remainder of the turn, 
Nixon will be required to expend a 
momentum marker in order to play any 
card as a Campaigning action. This 
Event also causes Nixon’s candidate 
token to be moved to Maryland.
Activity Phase 3
Nixon plays Southern Revolt for 3 
CP, which he spends on an Advertising 
action. His 3 CP entitle him to three 
support checks, so he draws three 
cubes from the Political Capital Bag: 
one red and two blue. Only his own 
color cubes may be placed, so he de-
cides to put his one media support cube 
in the Eastern advertising box. He also 
gains one rest cube. Since he did not 
perform a Campaigning action, Ken-
nedy gains a momentum marker due to Nixon’s Pledge.
Kennedy now plays Harry F. Byrd for 
2 CP and two rest cubes. He opts to 
Campaign in New York for two addi-
tional points of state support; he now 
carries that state. As this was the only 
state he Campaigned in, he moves his 
candidate token to New York.
Nixon then chooses to expend a mo-
mentum marker to trigger the card’s 
Event, allowing him to subtract two 
points of state support from Kennedy 
in Mississippi and one in Alabama.
Activity Phase 4
Nixon plays Gaffe as an Event, causing 
Kennedy to lose a momentum marker 
as well as three state support in New 
York (where his candidate token is 
located). With only one remaining sup-
port there, he no longer carries that 
state (although he is still leading it). 
Nixon’s decision not to perform a 
Campaigning action, however, gives 
Kennedy a momentum marker due to 
Nixon’s Pledge. 
Kennedy plays Gathering Momentum 
In The West for 4 CP, which he spends 
on Campaigning to add three state 
support in New York (which he now 
carries again) and one in Pennsylvania. 
Since he is not leaving the region, he 
could choose to leave his candidate 
token in either state simply by chang-
ing the order in which he visits these 
states, but he decides to finish in Penn-
sylvania and so moves his candidate 
token there.
Once he is done, Nixon doesn’t hesitate to trigger this Event, 
since he is currently leading more states in the West than Ken-
nedy. He will therefore gain a momentum marker to offset the 
one he spent to trigger it plus one point of state support in every 
empty state in the West.

Activity Phase 5
Nixon plays Harvard Brain Trust for 
4 CP, which he spends on a Campaign-
ing action (first expending a momentum 
marker due to Nixon’s Knee) to add 
two state support each to New York 
and Pennsylvania. As New York is cur-
rently being carried by Kennedy, he 
would ordinarily be required to make 
a support check for each point spent 
there, but Nixon’s media support in the 
East exempts him from this require-
ment and he simply reduces Kennedy’s support there by two 
points. Similarly, while he would ordinarily be forced to make 
support checks in Pennsylvania due to Kennedy’s presence there 
(despite the fact that he is not actually carrying the state), he 
may simply apply two points of state support there thanks to 
his earlier advertising in the region. These two points allow him 
to remove Kennedy’s single support cube in the state and place 
one of his own, stealing the lead in that state. He has the option 
of moving his candidate marker to either of the states in which 
he Campaigned (since he has not left the region), so he chooses 
to move to Pennsylvania.
Once Nixon is done, Kennedy spends a momentum marker to 
trigger the Event on his card and places the Harvard Brain 
Trust card on the board in the space reserved for persistent 
Debate Events. This card will give him a bonus when resolving 
issues during the Debates on Turn 6.
Kennedy then plays Puerto Rican 
Bishops for 3 CP, which he spends on 
Positioning to add one issue support 
each in all three issues, reducing Nixon 
to one cube in Defense and taking the 
lead himself in both Economy and 
Civil Rights. He also collects one rest 
cube.
Momentum Phase
At the start of the Momentum Phase, both players must discard 
half of their unused momentum markers. This loss is rounded 
down, however, so Kennedy gets to keep his one remaining 
momentum marker, while Nixon has none to lose.
Next, Nixon has the opportunity to shift an issue on the Issue 
Track since he has more media support cubes on the board than 
his opponent (one cube in the East to Kennedy’s none). He’s 
happy with Defense where it is in the top spot, but decides to 
boost Civil Rights and move that issue up to the second place po-
sition in the Issue Track, bumping Economy down to third place.
The players then receive 
awards for their issue support. 
Kennedy’s lead in Economy 
wins him one momentum 
marker, while his lead in 
Civil Rights gives him the 
choice of another momentum 
or an endorsement. He choos-
es to draw an endorsement card and receives an Endorsement 
In The South, allowing him to place an endorsement marker 
in that region’s advertising box. 
Nixon has the lead in Defense, 
which is the top issue in the 
Issue Track, so he gains both 
a momentum marker and an 
endorsement. Drawing a card 
from the endorsement deck, 
he receives a Major En-
dorsement that allows him to 
place an endorsement marker in any region he chooses; he picks 
the South, removing Kennedy’s endorsement there.
After resolving these awards, one issue support cube is removed 
from each issue on the Issue Track. As neither player had more 
than one support in any issue, no support now remains for either 
candidate in any issue.
Campaign Strategy Phase
Both players place their sole remaining card facedown on their 
respective Campaign Strategy Stacks. Finally, both players place 
their accumulated rest cubes in the Political Capital Bag. Turn 
1 is now complete!
Debates – Turn 6
Determine Initiative, Campaign Strategy, & Set the Stage
The first two cubes drawn for the Initiative Check are both blue, 
so no third draw is necessary: Kennedy wins the initiative. Both 
players retrieve the cards from their Campaign Strategy Stacks 
on the board and move the issue tiles from the Issues Track to the 
corresponding spaces on the debate board, from lowest to high-
est position: in this case, Economy, Civil Rights, and Defense.
Debate! Round 1
Nixon selects his Opposition Research card while Kennedy 
selects Give Me a Week and both players reveal their selected 
cards. Nixon’s card is played to the Defense issue and is placed to 

his own side of that issue. Kennedy’s card is played to Economy 
on his own side.
Debate! Round 2
Kennedy decides to play his “Peace Without Surrender” card 
this time, a Defense card which features only his opponent’s 
candidate icon, meaning it will be placed to Nixon’s side. This is 
Kennedy’s only Defense card, however, so (knowing he cannot 
win that issue) he chooses to force that issue to resolve early, 
increasing the rewards for the other issues which he still hopes 
to win. Similarly, Nixon selects Nikita Kruschev, an Economy 
card. While this card features icons for both candidates (mean-
ing he can place it to either side), he too knows he cannot win 
this issue and chooses to place it to his opponent’s side using 
similar thinking to Kennedy’s.
•	 Nixon now has two cards on his side of the Defense issue, 
while Kennedy has two cards on his side of Economy. Both 
of these issues have been won, but Economy (being in a lower 
position) is resolved first. Nixon has no cards on his own side 
of this issue, so Kennedy wins it by default, earning two state 
support cubes to place anywhere he likes. He uses both in 
California to reduce Nixon’s support there from three cubes 
down to one. The Economy issue tile is then returned to the 
Issues Track, in the lowest position. The cards played to the 
Economy issue are discarded.
•	 The Defense issue is now resolved, giving Nixon (the only 
player with cards next to that issue) three state support. He 
places one in Indiana to give him his fourth cube there, allow-
ing him to carry the state, and puts the remainder in California 
to rebuild his support to three there. The Defense issue tile is 
then returned to the middle position in the Issues Track. The 
cards played to the Defense issue are discarded as well.
Debate! Round 3
Nixon selects Herb Klein; Kennedy selects Kennedy’s Peace 
Corps. Both cards are played to Civil Rights and placed on the 
players’ own sides.
Debate! Round 4
Nixon selects Rising Food Prices; Kennedy selects Profiles in 
Courage. Again, both cards are played to Civil Rights, on the 
players’ own sides. This closes out the issue, with 5 CP played 
to Kennedy’s side and 6 CP to Nixon’s side—an apparent win 
for Nixon. However, the Harvard Brain Trust persistent De-
bate Event is in effect, (having been played on turn 1), which 
gives Kennedy +1 to his total in each issue during the Debates. 
This brings his total up to 6 CP, creating a tie in Civil Rights. 
In the case of a tie, the issue goes to the player who won the 
initiative, so Kennedy wins the final issue and gets to place four 
state support cubes. He places all four in California, removing 
Nixon’s three support there and placing one cube of his own. 
The Civil Rights issue tile is then returned to the Issues Track, 
in the highest position. The cards played to the Civil Rights 
issue are discarded. 
With all three issues having been resolved, the Debates are now 
over. The players’ remaining unplayed cards are discarded, and 
the game resumes with Turn 7.
Election Day – Turn 9
Deposit Bonus Cubes & Determine Initiative
Nixon has two media support cubes in the East to Kennedy’s 
two in the Midwest and one in the South. Nixon therefore places 
two cubes from his supply into the Political Capital Bag, while 
Kennedy adds three of his own. Both players then remove all 
their media support cubes from the regional advertising boxes 
as well as their issue support cubes from the issue tiles and place 
them in the Political Capital Bag as well. In addition, Kennedy 
turns in his one remaining momentum marker for two additional 
cubes to be placed in the bag while Nixon, with two momentum 
markers left, adds four cubes of his own. Next, an Initiative 
Check is made: the first two draws are one blue and one red, 
so a third (red) cube is drawn, giving the initiative to Nixon.
Both players then retrieve the cards from their Campaign Strat-
egy Stacks on the board and make three support checks for each. 
The player with the initiative gets to go first. 
Nixon, with the initiative, draws three cubes each for the states 
identified on his cards: Minnesota, North Carolina, Connecticut, 
and Florida. He draws three red cubes for Minnesota, removing 

Kennedy’s two support in that state and gaining one of his own. 
In North Carolina, he draws one red and two blue; this gains 
him only one support, which is enough to remove Kennedy’s 
single cube there but not enough to add one for himself. Nixon 
draws two red and one blue for Connecticut, where he already 
has the lead with one cube, so he increases his support there by 
two. Lastly, in Florida, he draws three blue cubes, failing to win 
any support in that state.
Nixon’s Support Checks
	
MN:	
 
 
 
	
NC:	
 
 
 
	
CT:	
 
 
 
	
FL:	
 
 
 
Kennedy now draws for his own cards: Wisconsin, Ohio, and two 
cards for New York. His draw of three red cubes for Wisconsin 
gains him nothing there, but he draws three blue cubes in Ohio 
for a gain of three state support, enough to eliminate Nixon’s 
three support cubes there. Kennedy then draws six cubes for New 
York (since he had two New York cards set aside), drawing four 
blue and two red. Four state support is enough to remove Nixon’s 
three cubes in New York and give him one there of his own.
Kennedy’s Support Checks
	
WI:	
 
 
 
	
OH:	
 
 
 
	
NY:	
 
 
 
	
NY:	
 
 
 
Election Day Events
After resolving both players’ Campaign 
Strategy cards, any persistent Election 
Day Events are resolved. In this case, 
Nixon gets to resolve the Recount 
Event, which grants him three support 
checks in a state of his choice. He se-
lects Ohio, but draws three blue cubes 
and fails to add any support there.
	 OH:	
 
 
 
Endorsements and Undecided Voters
At this point, any states which are currently empty of support for 
either player are tipped to the player having an endorsement in 
that region, or—where neither player has an endorsement—the 
built-in edge in that state. Kennedy places one cube in Ohio 
thanks to his two endorsement markers in the Midwest; Nixon, 
with an endorsement of his own in the South, gains support in 
both North Carolina and Georgia. Neither player has any en-
dorsements in the East, so the empty New Hampshire with its 
edge for Nixon goes to him, while Kennedy takes West Virginia. 
There are no empty states in the West.
Final Tally
Finally, both players claim the state 
seals for every state where they have 
support and add up their total electoral 
votes. However, the Unpledged Elec-
tors Election Day Event happens to 
be in effect, so Kennedy may not claim 
Louisiana, where he only has three 
support (less than the four required by 
this Event); neither player receives this 
state’s votes.
Nixon’s Total Electoral Votes = 266
Kennedy’s Total Electoral Votes = 261
In the end, Kennedy finds he has won only 261 votes to Nixon’s 
266: in a reversal of history, Nixon has won the election and the 
game! Note, however, that it it had not been for the Unpledged 
Electors Event, or if Kennedy had managed even one more point 
of support in Louisiana, he would have received an additional 
10 votes for that state and won the election. Maybe next time…

•	 Kennedy was both the last Northern Democrat and sitting United 
States senator to win either the presidency or popular vote until the 
election of Barack Obama in 2008.
•	 This was the first election where the winning candidate received a 
majority of the electoral votes although the second-place candidate 
carried a majority of the states. As of 2016, it has happened once 
more, in 1976.
•	 Though the vote in both Alaska and Hawaii was very close in 1960, 
the election would foreshadow their future political leanings: Alaska 
has continued supporting Republicans in all but one election since 
(1964), while Hawaii has been carried by Democrats in all but two 
subsequent elections (1972 and 1984).
•	 Kennedy was the first Democrat to win the presidency without car-
rying Arizona, Florida, Oklahoma and Virginia, and the last to win 
without Ohio and Wisconsin (this was also the first election that 
Arizona participated in where it did not back the winning candidate). 
Kennedy is the last candidate from either party elected without car-
rying Ohio, and only one other candidate since has won without 
Florida (Bill Clinton in 1992). Kennedy was also the first winning 
candidate since 1912 not to carry California; since then, Jimmy 
Carter in 1976, George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004, and Donald 
Trump in 2016, won the White House despite losing California.
•	 Since 1840, this is the second and most recent presidential election 
in which Alabama and Mississippi have had a different popular vote 
victor. (Mississippi was also unable to vote in 1868 due to Recon-
struction). However, the majority of Alabama’s electoral votes went 
to Harry F. Byrd instead of John F. Kennedy. All of Mississippi’s 
electoral votes went to Byrd.
•	 Barry Goldwater was the only person to come in fourth for either 
President or vice president in the electoral college during the 20th 
century, and the first since 1872.
•	 This election marked the first time since 1936 that the Democratic 
candidate’s share of the popular vote went up as opposed to down.
•	 This was the first election where both major party candidates were 
born in the 20th century.
•	 It marked the first election of two incumbent U.S. senators as Presi-
dent and Vice President, a phenomenon that was repeated by Barack 
Obama and Joe Biden in 2008. In both instances, the President-elect 
was the younger of the two and also the junior senator from his state.
•	 This was the first presidential election since 1860 that the incumbent 
Vice President was a presidential nominee.
•	 This election was the last time that Georgia, Louisiana, and South 
Carolina voted Democratic until 1976 and the last time Maine and 
Washington voted Republican until 1972. (Source: Wikipedia)
Electoral Milestones of the 1960 U.S. Presidential Election

1. Initiative Phase
2. Five Activity Phases
4. Campaign 
Strategy Phase
3. Momentum 
Phase
•	 New Cards: Both players draw cards. In turns 1-5: 6 cards; in turns 7-8: 7 cards.
•	 Initiative Check: To see who goes first in this turn.
•	 Momentum Decay: Both players discard half of their momentum markers (rounding down).
•	 Issue Shift: Player with most media support on the board can switch two adjacent issue tiles.
•	 Awards for Issue Support: Players earn rewards (momentum and/or endorsements) for leading issues.
•	 Issue Decay: one issue support cube is removed from each issue tile. 
•	Determine Initiative: Initiative Check to see who will win an issue in the event of a tie.
•	Campaign Strategy: Both players retrieve the 5 cards from their Campaign Strategy Stacks.
•	Set the Stage: Move the issue tiles (with any issue support cubes) from the Issue Track to the Debate Board.
•	Debate!: In a series of rounds, both players simultaneously reveal one card, and then place them next to the Debate 
Board according to the debate icon and candidate icon on the card. Once an issue has 2 cards on at least one player’s 
side, the player with the most CP on their side of the issue has won that issue and earns the reward listed to the left. 
The corresponding issue tile is returned to the lowest available spot on the Issue Track. Rounds continue until all 
issues are won or cards run out. If cards run out, remaining issues are resolved as they stand, with most CP winning.
•	Ending the Debates: All Campaign Strategy cards are discarded and the game resumes with Turn 7.
•	Deposit Bonus Cubes: Add cubes to the bag equal to your media support, then put all media support and issue 
support cubes into the Political Capital bag. Both players may exchange remaining momentum markers, adding 2 
cubes to the bag for each marker exchanged.
•	Determine Initiative: Initiative Check to see who will go first during Campaign Strategy.
•	Campaign Strategy: Both players reveal their 4 Campaign Strategy cards, then each conducts 3 support checks in 
the states indicated by those cards.
•	Election Day Events: Any persistent Election Day events are retrieved from the board and resolved in the order 
determined by the player with initiative.
•	Endorsements & Edges: Each empty state in a region with any endorsement markers receives one cube of that 
player’s color. Each empty state in a region without any endorsement markers receives one cube of the color 
indicated by that state’s edge.
•	Final Tally: Players collect the state seals for all states in which they have state support, and tally up the electoral 
votes noted on the seals. The player with the highest total of electoral votes wins the game! Remember to account 
for the Unpledged Electors card if it is in play.
•	 Campaign Strategy: Both players place cards into their Campaign Strategy stack. (During turns 1-5, each 
places one card; during turns 7-8, each places 2 cards.) No “Gathering Momentum” cards allowed.
•	 Rest: Both players put their collected rest cubes into the Political Capital bag.
During each phase each player plays a single card. Each player may:
Normal Event
Player resolves the event text 
on the card. Once resolved, the 
card is removed from the game.
Persistent Event
Player places card in the 
appropriate persistent event 
stack on the board. It will be 
resolved at the appropriate time 
later in the game.
Candidate Card can only be 
played if it is not exhausted. 
When played, it is resolved in 
the same manner as if a normal 
card had been played for 
Campaign Points.
Once resolved, do not discard 
the Candidate card. Instead, flip 
it to the exhausted side.
© 2017 GMT Games LLC
P.O. Box 1308 
Hanford, CA 93232 
www.GMTGames.com
Preempting the Event (prior to resolving)
Player can spend 2 momentum markers to prevent their opponent from 
triggering the event on the card.
…as a Campaigning Action
Player can split the card’s CP freely amongst:
•	 Increasing State Support (Adding state support cubes to any 
states in the currently occupied region: 1 CP per added cube. 
Must make a support check to do so if state is carried by oppo-
nent or occupied by opponent’s candidate token.)
•	 Moving The Candidate Token (1 CP to move the token across 
any regional boundary.) Card is discarded after all CP are spent.
…or as an Advertising Action
Player performs one support check per CP. Each success equals one 
media support cube that may be placed in any region’s advertising box. 
Card is then discarded.
…or as a Positioning Action
Player can add issue support cubes to any issue. 
Each Activity Phase, the first cube added in any issue costs 1 CP, each 
additional cube added per issue costs 2 CP. Card is then discarded.
Triggering the Event (after resolving)
Opponent can spend one momentum marker to trigger the event on the 
card, unless the event has been preempted. If triggered, card is resolved 
as if opponent had played it, then removed from the game.
First Issue Won: 
2 State Support Cubes
Second Issue Won: 
3 State Support Cubes
Third Issue Won: 
4 State Support Cubes
Collect Rest Cubes on the Card Regardless of How the Card is Played!
During The Debates, Remember To Take Note Of Any Persistent Debate Events In Play And To Apply Their Effects As Appropriate!
TURN 6: 
THE DEBATES
TURN 9: 
ELECTION 
DAY
	 Play a Card as an Event	 or	
Play a Card for Campaign Points	
or	
Play a Candidate Card
TURNS 1-5 and TURNS 7-8 - THE NORMAL SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Player Aid