R U L E B O O K
1.0 
Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2.0 
Components. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
3.0 
Game Set Up. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
4.0 
Game Sequence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
5.0 
Card Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
6.0 
Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
7.0 
Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
8.0 
Power Struggles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
9.0 
Country Scoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
10.0 
Victory Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
11.0 
Card Clarifications. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
12.0 
U.S.S.R. Stability Track . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Card Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Example of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

1.0 INTRODUCTION
As the year 1989 begins, the Cold War between the United States 
and the Soviet Union is drawing to a close. For forty years the 
continent of Europe has been divided by an iron curtain separat-
ing East and West. Now the new Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev 
has launched a program of reforms - glasnost (“openness”) and 
perestroika (“restructuring”) - in an attempt to revitalize socialism. 
He has also announced unilateral arms reductions that are wildly 
popular in the West. The long twilight struggle between the two 
superpowers is finally coming to an end.
These changes are not popular with everyone, however. For the 
Communists of Eastern Europe, the force of Soviet arms has always 
protected them from the rebellions of their own people. Now the 
Eastern European Communists are on their own.
At the start of 1989, the political situation in Eastern Europe ap-
pears normal. As they have for decades, a small power elite (acting 
through a massive bureaucracy) retains unquestioned power in each 
country. However, beneath the surface, there are signs of decay. The 
inefficiencies of the command economy, the end of Soviet subsidies, 
and the debt accrued through heavy borrowing from Western banks 
have brought the economies of Eastern Europe to various stages 
of crisis. In a classic pre-revolutionary situation, the Communists 
have begun to doubt their own legitimacy to rule. 
In 1989: Dawn of Freedom, the players will recreate the momentous 
revolutions of 1989. One player is the Communist. He will need to 
use a wise combination of crackdowns, concessions and reforms 
to try to hold on to power. The other player is the Democrat. He 
will try to use the leadership of the intellectuals and the street 
protests of the students to generate a critical mass of opposition to 
the regimes in order to launch a revolution. Both players will try to 
swing the workers to their side. At the start of the game, the Com-
munist holds power in each country. The Democrat will attempt to 
topple the Communist from power through resolution of scoring 
cards. The longer the Communist retains power in a country, the 
more points he scores. The player most successful in advancing 
his cause wins the game.
2.0 COMPONENTS
1989 contains the following:
• One countersheet
• This rules booklet
• 22” x 34” map
• 2 player aid cards
• 110 strategy cards
• 52 Power Struggle cards
• 2 six-sided dice
2.1 THE GAME MAP
2.1.1 The map is divided into six countries that are in play: East 
Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bul-
garia. Bordering countries such as Yugoslavia are shown but are 
not in play. The spaces that belong to a country share the same 
background color.
2.1.2 Eastern Europe and the Balkans: East Germany, Poland, 
Czechoslovakia, and Hungary are considered to be in Eastern Eu-
rope. Romania and Bulgaria are considered to be in the Balkans. 
Certain Event cards affect one region or the other.
2.1.3 Socio-Economic Icons: Spaces in a country represent geo-
graphic locations, but they also abstractly represent various socio-
economic segments of society. The icon in the upper right corner 
of each space lets players know what type of space it is:
• Elite space (limousine) - At the top of Communist 
society are a power elite. These are Central Commit-
tee party members, ministers in the government and regional 
party bosses. These individuals enjoy special privileges under 
communism.
• Bureaucrat space (star) - Beneath the power elite are 
large numbers of bureaucrats who are in charge of the 
day-to-day operations of the socialist state. The elites rely on the 
bureaucrats to maintain control over the country.
• Farmer space (sickle) - These spaces represent rural 
areas. 
• Worker space (hammer) - These spaces represent the 
largest portion of the population. They are most of the 
Battleground spaces. Across the region the Workers are 
inclined toward socialism in principle. Still, they are fed up with 
the failures of the Communist parties. Beneath the surface there 
are signs that the social contract between the workers and the 
Party is weakening.
• Intellectual space (typewriter) - These represent dissi-
dents who are attempting to create a civil society outside 
the reach of the Communist system. They can provide leadership 
and a voice to the democratic movements.

• Student space (Victory sign) - The students are the vanguard 
of protest against the regimes. They are easy to activate 
by the Democrat, but they face harsh suppression by the 
Communist.
• Church space (church) - These spaces represent religious insti-
tutions. The Catholic Church in Poland and Evangelical 
Lutheran Church in East Germany are the most important 
institutions in their countries outside the control of the 
Communist Party. In contrast, the Orthodox Churches 
have made accommodations with the regimes.
• Minority space (Muslim Crescent and the Székely Sun 
and Moon) - These spaces represent important 
minority groups, such as Turks in Bulgaria 
and Hungarians in Romania. In Eastern Eu-
rope, and especially in the Soviet Union, the Communists face a 
“nationalities problem” of peoples aspiring to autonomy or even 
independence.
2.1.4 Stability number: Each space has a Stability Number in 
its upper right hand corner. This number determines how much 
Support is necessary to control the space, and also represents the 
space’s resistance to Support Checks.
2.1.5 Battleground Spaces: Battle-
ground spaces have a multi-colored 
background. All other spaces are normal 
spaces. Battleground spaces are the same as normal spaces, but they 
have special rules for country Scoring (see 9.0).
2.1.6 Lines: Spaces are connected to one another via lines on the 
map. A space is considered adjacent to all other spaces to which 
it is connected.
2.1.7 Controlling Spaces: Each space on the map is either consid-
ered to be controlled by one of the players, or it is uncontrolled. A 
space is considered controlled by a player if the player’s Support 
Points in the space exceeds his opponent’s Support Points in that 
space by at least the space’s Stability Number.
EXAMPLE: Dresden has a Stability Number of 4. If the Democrat 
doesn’t have any SPs in Dresden, the Communist needs at least 4 
SPs there to control the space. If the Communist has 2 SPs there, 
the Democrat needs at least 6 SPs there to have control.
2.1.8 Some spaces contain small numbers with blue or red back-
grounds in the lower left or lower-right portions of the space. These 
numbers indicate SPs placed in that space at set up.
2.1.9 Scoring Boxes: Each country has a Scoring Box on the map. 
The Scoring Box shows the VPs players score for Presence, Domi-
nation, and Control during scoring. It also shows who has Power 
in the country and how many times the Communist has scored for 
Power so far in the game (see 8.4.4 – 8.4.6).
2.1.10 Victory Point Track: The Victory Point Track shows a 
range of scoring possibilities from Communist –20 (Communist 
automatic victory) to Democrat +20 (Democrat automatic victory). 
At the start of the game, place the VP in the center of the chart, 
in the box marked “0.” Whenever a player gains or loses victory 
points, the VP marker is moved to track these changes.
EXAMPLE: The VP marker is on the +10 space (Democrat winning) 
and the Communist gains 2 VP. The VP marker is moved 2 boxes in 
favor of the Communist to the +8 space on the VP track.
Back
Front
Back
Placement Box for marker
Country Name
Country Scoring Values
Space
The two open spots in 
each space are for placing 
Support Point markers
Connecting Line
Stability Number
Socio-Economic Icon
At Start Setup Information
Support Point Markers
The Front or darker side is 
used if the player controls the 
space (2.1.4).
Front
Communist
Democrat

2.2 THE STRATEGY DECK
2.2.1 There are 110 Strategy cards used in the game. Except for 
Scoring cards, all strategy cards contain an Operations Point 
(“Ops”) value, an Event title and an Event description. Scoring 
cards are labeled “COUNTRY NAME—Scoring” and must be 
played sometime during the turn they are drawn.
2.2.2 Each non-Scoring card has a symbol to indicate which side 
is associated with its Event, as follows:
• Cards with a Red star are associated with the Communist.
• Cards with a Blue star are associated with the Democrat.
• Cards with a Silver star are associated with both sides.
2.2.3 Non-Scoring Cards may be played in one of two ways, as Events 
or for Operations. Scoring cards are always played as Events.
2.2.4 Cards with an asterisk in the Event title that are played for the 
Event are removed from the game. Cards that are not permanently 
removed from the game are placed in a face up pile adjacent to 
the draw deck. This is called the discard pile. The players may 
examine the discard pile.
2.2.5 Cards with the Event title underlined are Lasting Events that 
have persistent effects when they are played as Events (see 7.2).
2.2.6 Cards with the Event title in red indicate a card that is a pre-
requisite for another event. Exception: Helsinki Final Act is red, 
but not a prerequisite for another Event (see 11.3).
2.2 THE POWER STRUGGLE DECK
2.2.1 There are 52 Power Struggle cards used in the game. They 
are used when a Power Struggle (8.0) is triggered by the playing 
of a Scoring card.
2.2.2 There are three types of Power Struggle cards:
•	 Suited: The main cards used in the Power Struggle. They are 
grouped into the following suits: Rally in the Square, Strike, 
March, and Petition. 
•	 Leaders: All leaders correspond to certain type of space (e.g. 
Elite, Worker, or Student). Leaders can be used as a suited card 
in any suit the player wishes, but only if the player controls a 
space of the corresponding type in the country where the Power 
Struggle is taking place. If the player does not control such a 
space, the card is worthless and can only be discarded.
	 EXAMPLE: The Communist controls Bydgoszcz (Polish Elite 
space) and Lodz (one of many Polish worker spaces). He can 
use an Elite Leader card or a Worker Leader card. He cannot 
use a Church Leader card because he does not control the Polish 
Church space.
•	 Wild Cards: Special cards that have specific game effects de-
scribed on them.
2.2.3 Suited and Leader cards have a rank printed on them. This val-
ue affects the determination of initiative in the Power Struggles.
2.3 MARKERS
2.3.1 Support Markers: The struggle for power across the board 
is tracked by Support markers. The number on a Support marker 
denotes the number of Support Points (SPs) it represents.
• Support markers are treated like cash, in the sense that players 
may ‘break’ a large denomination into smaller denominations 
at any time. Additionally, the number of Support markers in 
the game is not an absolute limit. Small poker chips, coins, or 
wooden blocks can be utilized to substitute in the event of a 
marker shortage.
• If a player controls a space, his Support Markers should be placed 
darker side face up to denote this. If not, place the lighter side 
face up.
• If a player has two or more markers in a space, place the larger 
denomination on top. Influence markers are open to inspection 
at all times.
2.3.2 The game includes various other markers to assist play:
• The Action Round Marker is used to track how many 
actions each player has taken in the current turn.
• The Turn Marker is used to track the current turn.
Card Number
Early/Middle/Late 
deck indicator
Ops Value (Color of 
star indicates Communist 
(Red) or Democrat (Blue) 
event.
Descriptive Text
Event Title
Event Text
Card Number
Rank (8.3.2)
Suit

• The VP Marker is used to track the current VP total.
• The Tiananmen Square Markers are used to track 
each player’s progress on the Tiananmen 
Square Track.
• The Wall Marker is placed near Berlin 
as a reminder while the Wall Event is in 
effect.
• The Solidarnosc Marker is placed near Gdansk as 
a reminder that the Solidarity Legalized Event is in 
effect.
• The Systematization Marker (Bulldozer) is placed 
in a space in Romania to remind the players that the 
space has been destroyed by the Communist.
• The USSR Stability Marker (torn CCCP Flag) is 
placed on the USSR Stability Track to keep track of 
the progress of Baltic Independence movements.
• The Tyrant is Gone Marker (helicopter) is placed 
on the space chosen by the Democrat where the 
Ceausescus flee during the Romanian Revolution.
2.3.3 Optional Reminder Markers: Also included 
are 14 other reminder markers—players may use these 
at their option
3.0 GAME SET UP
3.1 Shuffle the Early Year cards and deal each player 8 cards. The 
players are allowed to examine their cards prior to deploying their 
initial Support Points.
3.2 The Communist places Support Points in the following loca-
tions: 1 in Bydgoszcz, 1 in Warszawa, 1 in Lublin, 2 in Dresden, 2 
in Berlin, 2 in Plzen, 2 in Praha, 1 in Brno, 1 in Szombathely, 2 in 
Cluj-Napoca, 2 in Bucuresti, 2 in Sofia and 1 in Stara Zagora.
3.3 The Democrat places Support Points in the following locations: 
5 in Polish Catholic Church, 1 in Gdansk, 1 in Krakow, 1 in East 
German Lutheran Church, 2 in Czech Writers, 1 in Czech Catholic 
Church, 1 in Budapest, 1 in Szeged, 1 in Hungarian Catholic Church 
and 1 in Szekesfehervar.
3.4 Then each player places an additional 7 Support Points in the 
following order: 
1. Communist places 2 
2. Democrat places 3
3. Communist places 3
4. Democrat places 4 
5. Communist places 2
NOTE: These Support Points may be placed in any space or spaces 
that do not have opponent’s SPs at the time of placement.
3.5 Place the Democrat and Communist Tiananmen Square markers 
to the left of the Tiananmen Square track. Place the Turn Marker on 
the first space of the Turn Record Track. Place the Action Round 
marker on the first space of the Action Round track, Communist 
side face up. Finally, place the VP marker on the Victory Points 
Track on the zero space.
4.0 GAME SEQUENCE
4.1 General Rule
1989 has ten turns. Each turn represents an indeterminate length 
of time, from two months in the Early Year to 2-3 weeks in the 
Late Year. Each player takes seven Action Rounds per turn, except 
the Communist may take eight Action Rounds when the Honecker 
Event is in effect. At the start of each Turn, the players are dealt 
sufficient cards from the draw deck to increase their hand size to 
eight cards. At the beginning of turn 4, the Middle Year deck is 
shuffled into the draw deck. At the beginning of turn 8, the Late 
Year deck is shuffled into the draw deck.
4.2 The Phasing Player
The Phasing Player is the player whose Action Round is currently 
being played.
4.3 Reshuffle
When there are no cards remaining in the Strategy deck’s draw 
deck, reshuffle all discards to form a new draw deck. Note that 
cards played as Events with an asterisk (*) are removed from the 
game when they are played as an Event, and they are not shuffled 
into the new draw deck. 
4.4 Adding Middle and Late Year Cards
When moving from the Early Year deck to the Middle Year, or 
from Middle Year to Late Year, do not add in the discards to the 
deck—instead add the Middle Year or Late Year cards (as appropri-
ate) to the existing deck and reshuffle. The ignored discards remain 
in the discard pile for now, but they will be reshuffled into the deck 
when the draw deck becomes empty.
4.5 The Turn Sequence
A turn in 1989 has the following sequence:
1. Deal Strategy Cards
2. Play Action Rounds
3. Make Extra Support Check (if applicable)
4. Verify Held Cards
5. Celebrate New Year’s Eve Party (if applicable)
6. Advance Turn Marker
7. Calculate Final Scoring (after turn 10)
4.5.1 Deal Strategy Cards: The players receive enough Strategy 
cards to bring their total hand size to eight. The first card is dealt to 
the Communist, and then the deal should alternate back and forth 
between the players until they have received their full hand size. 
If, due to progress on the Tiananmen Square track, one of the play-
ers is entitled to discard and draw one card (6.3.5), he may do so 
after all cards are dealt.
4.5.2 Action Rounds: This is the main phase of the turn. Each 
player receives seven Action Rounds. Players alternate Action 
Rounds, playing one Strategy card per Round. The Communist 
always takes his Action Round first, followed by the Democrat. 

All actions required by each card must be resolved before the next 
player starts his Action Round by playing a card. The player taking 
his Action Round is called the “Phasing Player.”
• Ordinarily a player will have a card left over after the completion 
of all Action Rounds. This card is considered “held,” and may be 
played in subsequent rounds. Scoring cards may never be held.
• If for any reason a player has no cards in his hand to play at the 
start of an Action Round, he must forfeit that Action Round and 
take no action.
4.5.3 Extra Support Check: If, due to progress on the Tiananmen 
Square track, one of the players is entitled to take a free Support 
Check at the end of a turn (6.3.5), the player may do so at this 
time. Note: Events in effect for that Turn (Sinatra Doctrine, FRG 
Embassies, Perestroika, etc.) remain in effect for purposes of the 
Tiananmen Square free support check.
4.5.4 Verify Held Cards: Scoring cards may never be held from 
one turn to the next. If a player is holding a scoring card at this stage 
in the turn, that player loses the game. Scoring cards are marked 
on the lower left with a red box so that they can be identified by 
only revealing the card's lower left edge.
4.5.5 New Year’s Eve Party: If the New Year’s Eve Party Event is 
in effect, the game is over and a winner is determined. See 10.3.
4.5.6 Advance Turn Marker: Move the Turn Marker to the next 
turn. If it is the end of turn 3, shuffle the Middle Year cards into 
the draw deck. If it is the end of Turn 7, shuffle the Late Year cards 
into the draw deck.
4.5.7 Final Scoring: If it is the end of Turn 10, and the game’s 
winner has not yet been determined, perform Final Scoring as 
described in the Scoring rules (10.4).
5.0 CARD PLAY
Note: This section covers the play of non-Scoring cards. The play 
of Scoring cards is covered in Section 8.0
5.1 Events or Operations
Cards may be played in one of two ways: as Events or for Opera-
tions points (“Ops”). Ordinarily, players will hold one card in their 
hand at the end of the turn. All other cards will be used for Events 
or Operations. Players may not forgo their turn by declining to play 
a card or by discarding a card from their hand.
5.2 Events Associated With Your Opponent
If a player plays a card for Operations, and the card’s Event is 
associated only with his opponent, the Event still occurs (and the 
card, if it has an asterisk after the Event title, is removed).
Note: When playing a card for Operations that triggers an oppo-
nent’s Event, the opponent implements the Event text as if he had 
played the card himself.
• The phasing player always decides whether the Event is to take 
place before or after the Operations are conducted.
• If a card play triggers an opponent’s Event, but that Event can-
not occur because a prerequisite card has not been played or 
a condition in the Event has not been met, the Event does not 
occur. In this instance, cards with an asterisk (Event marked *) 
are returned to the discard pile, not removed from the game.
• If a card play triggers an opponent’s Event, but the Event results 
in no effect, the Event is still considered played, and is still be 
removed if it has an asterisk.
EXAMPLE 1: (Normal event) The Communist plays ‘Jan Palach 
Week’ for one Operations. He decides to let the Democrat use the 
Event first. The Democrat places 6 SPs in the Charles University 
space, and then the Communist conducts his Operations using the 
Ops value of the card.
EXAMPLE 2: (Prerequisite event not in effect) The Communist 
plays the ‘Walesa’ card before the ‘Solidarity Legalized’ Event has 
taken place. The Communist would get the benefit of the 3 Opera-
tions points, but the Democrat would not get to use the ‘Walesa’ 
Event. However, despite having an asterisk, the ‘Walesa’ card would 
not be removed from play. It would be placed in the discard pile to 
be reshuffled and possibly played later.
EXAMPLE 3: (Card no longer playable for the event) The Democrat 
plays ‘Honecker’ for 3 Operations. However during a previous Ac-
tion Round the Communist played ‘Modrow,’ which prohibits play of 
‘Honecker’ as an Event. The Democrat still conducts 3 Operations, 
but the Communist would not get the benefit of the Event, and the 
card would be placed in the discard pile.
EXAMPLE 4: (Event has no benefit) The Democrat plays ‘Nor-
malization;’ however, the Democrat does not have any influence in 
either of the spaces affected. Nevertheless, the Event is considered 
played, and the card would be removed from the game after the 
Democrat’s Action Round.
EXAMPLE 5: (Event has no effect) The Democrat plays ‘Elena’ for 
1 Operations; however, during a previous Action Round the ‘The 
Tyrant is Gone’ Event took effect which makes the Elena event have 
no effect. Still the event is considered played, and the card would 
be removed from the game after the Democrat’s Action Round. (See 
7.6 for further explanation of ‘The Tyrant is Gone’ event)
5.3 Discarded Cards
When an Event forces a player to discard a card, the Event on the 
discarded card is not implemented, unless the Event specifically 
states otherwise. This rule also applies to Scoring cards.
EXAMPLE 1: The Democrat holds ‘Brought in for Questioning’ 
and the ‘Poland Scoring’ card. The Democrat plays ‘Brought in 
for Questioning’ for 3 Ops, then allows the Communist Event to 
take place. The Scoring card is discarded, and because it is not a 
Communist Event, per the terms of the ‘Brought in for Questioning’ 
Event card, the Power Struggle does not take place.
EXAMPLE 2: The Communist holds ‘Kiss of Death’ and the ‘Poland 
Scoring’ card. The Communist plays ‘Kiss of Death’ for 3 Ops, 
then allows the Democrat Event to take place. The Scoring card is 
discarded and because the Scoring card is a neutral Event (silver 
starred Event), per the terms of the ‘Kiss of Death’ Event card, the 
Power Struggle does take place.

5.4 Contradictions
Card text that contradicts the written rules supersedes the written 
rules.
6.0 OPERATIONS
When a non-Scoring card is played as an Operations card, the 
player must choose to use all of the Operations points on one of 
the following Options: Support Point Placement, Support Checks, 
or a Tiananmen Square Attempt. 
6.1 SUPPORT POINT PLACEMENT
6.1.1 The rules in this section only apply to Support Points (SPs) 
that are placed with Operations points.
6.1.2 SPs are placed one at a time. However, all SP markers must 
be placed with, or adjacent to, friendly SP markers that were in 
place before the first SP was placed. 
6.1.3 It costs one Operations point to place an SP in a space that is 
friendly-controlled or uncontrolled. It costs two Operations points 
to place an SP in an opponent-controlled space. If a space’s control 
status changes while placing SPs, additional points placed during 
that Action Round are placed at the lower cost.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has 3 SPs in Budapest, and the Com-
munist has none. Therefore, the Democrat controls Budapest. 
The Communist uses a 4 Ops card to place Support Points. When 
placing markers in Budapest, the first marker costs 2 Ops. How-
ever, after placement of the first Communist Support marker, the 
Democrat no longer exceeds Communist influence in Budapest by 
the Stability number of 3; thus, a second or third Communist SP 
would only cost 1 Ops point per SP.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat controls Budapest and Eotvos Lorand 
U. The Communist controls Miskolc. Neither player controls Ta-
tabanya or Szeged.
6.1.4 SPs may be placed in multiple countries and multiple spaces 
up to the number of Operations Points on the card played.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has existing markers in the Czech 
Catholic Church space and in Gdansk. The Democrat uses a 4 
Ops card to place more Support. The Democrat may place SPs in 
any or all of Bratislava, Ostrava, and Presov. However, he cannot 
place SPs in Kosice after placing in Presov, because there were 
no Democratic SPs in Presov when he began placing influence.  
Because Gdansk already had SPs present, the Democrat could 
use any remaining Operation points to strengthen Gdansk or its 
adjacent spaces.
6.2 SUPPORT CHECKS
6.2.1 Support Checks are used to reduce opponent Support in a 
country, and possibly to add friendly support if the Support Check 
is successful enough.
6.2.2 Each Strategy Card played for Support Checks gives two 
Support Checks to the Phasing Player, regardless of the card’s 
Operations value.
6.2.3 To attempt a Support Check in a space, the space must have 
opponent SPs. The player must resolve the first Support Check 
before declaring the next target. Spaces may be targeted for Sup-
port Checks more than once per Action Round, but they must have 
opponent SPs in them at the start of each attempt.
6.2.4 To resolve a Support Check, multiply the Stability Number of 
the target space by two (x2). Then roll a die, and add the Ops value 
of the card played to the die roll. Further modify the die roll:
• +1 for each adjacent friendly controlled space
• –1 for each adjacent opponent controlled space
• SPs in the target space itself do not modify the die roll in any 
way.

6.2.5 If the modified die roll is greater than the doubled Stability 
Number, the Support Check succeeds, and the phasing player re-
moves opposing SPs equal to the difference from the target space. 
If there are insufficient opposing SPs to remove, he adds friendly 
SPs to make up the difference.
6.2.6 If the modified die roll is less than or equal to the doubled 
Stability Number, there is no effect.
EXAMPLE: The Communist plays a 3 Ops card for Support Checks. 
In southern Poland, the Polish Catholic Church (5 SPs), Krakow 
(3 SPs), Jagiellonian University (1 SP), and Polish Writers (2 SPs) 
are all controlled by the Democrat. Lodz (3 SPs) is controlled by 
the Communist. The Communists get two Support Checks:
1. The Communist chooses Jagiellonian University as the target of 
its first support check. The space’s low Stability Number makes it 
an inviting target, despite the surrounding Democratic spaces. The 
Communist rolls a 5, and adds the Operations value of 3 (totaling 
8). He then subtracts two (–2) from this total, due to the two adjacent 
Democrat-Controlled spaces (Krakow and Polish Writers), giving 
a final modified die roll of 6. This result is greater than Jagiellonian 
University’s doubled Stability Number (1x2 = 2) by a total of 4. 
This is the number of SPs that will be removed from/added to Ja-
giellonian University. First, the Communist removes the Democrat 
SP, then he places 3 Communist SPs.
2. With Jagiellonian University under Communist control, the Com-
munist now targets Krakow. Krakow has a higher Stability Number, 
but the Communist hopes that the adjacent modifiers provided by 
Lodz and the newly captured Student space will be enough to make a 
dent. Against this, the Polish Catholic Church still provides support 
to Krakow. Unfortunately for the Communist, he rolls a 1. Once 
again he adds the Operations value of 3, and this time the result is 
4. He then adds 2 (Lodz, Jagiellonian University) and subtracts 1 
(Polish Catholic Church), for adjacency modifiers, giving a final 
modified die roll of 5. This result is less than the doubled stability 
of Krakow (3x2 = 6), so there is no effect.
6.3 Tiananmen Square Attempt
6.3.1 The Tiananmen Square track contains a marker 
for each player. Operations points may be spent to at-
tempt to advance a player's marker to the next box on 
the track. To do so, roll a die and add the Operations 
value of the card to the total. Modify this total:
• +1 if the card played is the player’s own Event.
• +1 if this is the second or subsequent attempt to advance to the 
box.
• +1 if the ‘Li Peng’ Event is in play and the attempting player is 
the Communist.
6.3.2 If the total matches or exceeds the number required to advance 
to next box (printed in the box in the color of the appropriate player), 
the player moves his marker forward to the new box.
DESIGN NOTE: The required total is different for each side. It is 
easier for the Democrat to advance at the beginning of the track 
and easier for the Communist later on the track.
6.3.3 A player may only make one Tiananmen Square Attempt 
per turn. 
6.3.4 One Event (‘Tank Column/Tank Man*’) allows a player to 
advance his marker forward on the Tiananmen Square track. This 
card may be played for the Event in addition to any Tiananmen 
Square Attempt on a given turn.
6.3.5 Advancing along the Tiananmen Square Track and reaching a 
box before the opposing player results in either an immediate award 
or a lasting award. Lasting awards are in effect until the opposing 
player reaches the box, at which point they no longer apply. The 
boxes and their effects follow:
•	 Reformer Memorialized/Reformer Discredited: the first player 
to reach this box gets a +1 to his Tiananmen Square track rolls 
until the opponent reaches this box. 
•	 Students Rally/Students Dispersed: the first player to reach this 
box gets to play 1-Ops cards as if they were 2-Ops cards until 
his opponent reaches this box. This bonus applies only to cards 
with an actual printed Operations value of 1. 
•	 Foreign News/People’s Daily: the first player to reach this box 
immediately draws 3 cards. He places 1 of them in his hand and 
places the other 2 in the discard pile. He may place Scoring cards 
in the discard pile. 
•	 Hunger Strike/Students Arrested: the first player to reach this 
box immediately removes 2 opponent SPs from anywhere on the 
map.
•	 Goddess of Democracy/Structure Removed: the first player 
to reach this box can discard a non-Scoring card and draw a 
replacement at the start of every turn until his opponent reaches 
this box.
•	 Local PLA support/Rural Divisions Summoned: the first 
player to reach this box gets a free 2-Ops Support Check at the 
end of the turn until his opponent reaches this box.
•	 Square Barricaded/Protestors Massacred: the first player to 
reach this box can play a card for Operations without triggering 

the opponent’s Event once per turn. This is in addition to any 
Tiananmen Square track attempt or use of the ‘Common Euro-
pean Home’ Event. This ability can be used once per turn until 
the player’s opponent reaches this box.
•	 Political Pluralism/Most Favored Nation trade status award-
ed: the first player to reach this box can play a card for both its 
Operations value and Event once per turn until the opponent 
reaches this box. The player can choose the order in which to 
use the card, Operations first or Event first.
6.3.6 Regardless of the text on the card, the Event of a card played 
as a Tiananmen Square Attempt is not implemented. The card is 
placed in the discard pile.
DESIGN NOTE: The Tiananmen Square track is a player’s ‘safety 
valve.’ If a player holds a card whose Event is a good one for his 
opponent, and he doesn’t want the Event to occur, he can use it for 
a Tiananmen Square Attempt.
6.3.7 If a player reaches the final box of the Tiananmen Square 
Track, he may no longer make Tiananmen Square Attempts.
“The Wall will be standing in 50 and even in 100 years, if the 
reasons for it are not removed.” —East German leader Erich 
Honecker January 19, 1989
7.0 EVENTS
7.1 General Rule
If a card has a playable Event associated with either the Phasing 
Player or both players, it may be played as an Event instead of 
Operations. If so, the card’s Event takes effect as directed by the 
card’s text.
7.2 Lasting Events
Some Event cards remain in effect until canceled by a later Event. 
Some Events last for the duration of the game. When such cards 
are played as Events, place them to the side of the map, or place 
their markers on the Map, as a reminder of their ongoing effects. 
Lasting events have their Event title underlined.
7.3 Events that Modify OPs Values
7.3.1 Some Event cards modify the Operations value of cards that 
follow. These modifiers should be applied in aggregate. 
EXAMPLE: The Communist player begins a turn by playing ‘Pru-
dence’ as an Event. Ordinarily, all Democrat cards would subtract 
one from their Operations value, to a minimum of one. However, the 
Democrat follows by playing ‘Austria-Hungary Border Re-opened,’ 
which gives the Democrat a bonus of one if all Operations points 
are spent in East Germany in a given Action Round. In addition, 
the Democrat has reached the second space of the Tiananmen 
Square track. This enables him to play 1-Ops cards as if they were 
2-Ops cards (6.3.5):
1. On his next Action Round, the Democrat plays ‘Michnik’ (Op-
erations value 1) for Operations to place Support Markers. If the 
Democrat only places Support in Germany, the adjusted Operations 
value of the card is 1 (card’s printed value) +1 (Tiananmen Square) 
+1 (AH Border Re-opened) –1 (Prudence) = 2 Operations points. 
The Democrat places 2 SPs in Leipzig and his turn ends.
2. On a later turn that Action Round, the Democrat plays ‘Round-
table Talks’ (3 Ops) for Operations to make Support Checks outside 
of Germany. In this case, the only modifier in effect is Prudence, 
which subtracts 1 from the card’s Operations value to give a final 
total of 2. The Democrat makes two Support Checks, each with a 
modifier from the Operations value of the ‘Roundtable Talks’ card 
of just +2.
7.3.2 Regardless of modifiers, a non-Scoring card always has a 
minimum Operations Value of 1.
7.3.3 Events modifying the Operations value of a card only apply 
to one player, and do so for all purposes.
EXAMPLE: The Communist player has played ‘Perestroika’ as an 
Event, and therefore receives a +1 Operations value modifier for 
all his cards. The Communist has also played ‘Prudence,’ so the 
Democrat has a –1 modifier for his cards. The Communist plays the 
Democrat Event ‘Consumerism’ (3 Ops) and elects to take his turn 
before the Democrat Event triggers. With the Perestroika bonus, the 
Communist is able to place four Operations Points worth of SPs. 
Now the ‘Consumerism’ Event takes place. The Democrat gets to 
remove a Communist SP and then take a Support Check using the 
Ops value of the Consumerism card. Because of the Prudence Event, 
1 is subtracted from the card’s printed Ops value and the Support 
Check only gets a bonus of 2 from the Consumerism card.
7.4 Events That Play Like OPs Cards
If an Event specifies that a player may conduct Operations, place 
Support, or make Support Checks as if he played a card of a cer-
tain operations value, those additional Operations are treated as if 
a card had been played for its Operations Point Value. Therefore, 
those Operations are subject to all of the restrictions of Rule 6.1 
and other Events limiting their value or use.
7.5 Unplayable Events
If an Event becomes unplayable due to its cancellation or restric-
tion by another Event card, the unplayable Event card may still be 
used for its Operations value.
7.6 Special Rules Regarding Romanian Events
7.6.1 The Democrat has two Events in Romania that require special 
explanation: ‘The Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu’ and ‘The Tyrant 
is Gone’. These Events represent the start of the Romanian Revolu-
tion and the attempt of Nicolae and Elena Ceausescu to flee from 
the roof of the Central Committee building by helicopter. 
7.6.2 When ‘The Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu’ is played as an 
Event, it will sit in front of the Democrat until the Romania Scoring 
card is played. It will take effect after the Power Struggle cards are 
dealt but before the Power Struggle is resolved. 
7.6.3 If ‘The Tyrant is Gone’ is played as an Event before ‘The 
Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu’ has taken effect, it also sits in 

front of the Democrat until the Romania Scoring card is played. 
After the power struggle is resolved, ‘The Tyrant is Gone’ takes 
place immediately, before the next Action Round. If ‘The Tyrant 
is Gone’ is played for the Event after ‘The Crowd Turns Against 
Ceausescu’ has already occurred, i.e. the Romania Scoring card 
has been played and ‘The Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu’ card’s 
effects applied, then ‘The Tyrant is Gone’ takes effect immediately, 
like any other Event. 
7.6.4 While ‘The Tyrant is Gone’ is sitting in front of the Democrat, 
the five Events associated with the Ceausescus (‘Cult of Person-
ality,’ ‘Systematization,’ ‘Ceausescu,’ ‘Elena’ and ‘Massacre in 
Timisoara’) may still take place. 
EXAMPLE: ‘The Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu’ and ‘The Tyrant 
is Gone’ are in front of the Democrat. The Romania Scoring card 
has not been played. The Communist plays ‘Systematization’ for the 
Event and eliminates the Romanian Writers space from the map.
7.6.5 When The Tyrant is Gone is resolved, the Democrat chooses a 
space in Romania without Democratic SPs to which the Ceausescus 
flee. Place the Tyrant is Gone Marker on the space the Democrat 
chooses. If the Democrat subsequently takes control of the space, 
the Ceausescus have been captured, and the Democrat removes the 
marker and scores an immediate +2 VPs. If the game goes to Final 
Scoring and the Ceausescus have not been captured, the Communist 
gets a bonus of –2 VP. If there are no spaces to which the Ceausescus 
may flee, the Democrat scores +2 VPs immediately. 
“History punishes those who come too late.” —Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev to Erich Honecker, Berlin October 7, 1989
8.0 POWER STRUGGLES
Whenever a country’s Scoring card is played, a Power Struggle in 
that country is immediately conducted.
Important: Scoring cards must be played on the turn in which they 
are dealt. If a player is left with a Scoring card in his hand at the 
end of the final Action Round of a turn, he loses the game. 
A Power Struggle is resolved by following this sequence:
1. Deal Cards: The players are dealt cards from the Power 
Struggle deck based upon the number of spaces they control in 
the country.
2. Raise the Stakes: Players may choose to increase the rewards 
and penalties of the Power Struggle by discarding 3 of their 
Power Struggle cards.
3. Play Cards: Players play Power Struggle cards one at a time, 
until the winner of the Power Struggle is determined.
4. Aftermath: Penalties and rewards based on the result of the 
Power Struggle are resolved.
5. Scoring: Finally, the country is scored according to the rules in 
section 9.1, with the VP marker moving accordingly. 
Note: all steps of a Power Struggle must be completed before 
checking the VP marker for auto-victory.
8.1 DEAL CARDS
8.1.1 Shuffle all of the cards the Power Struggle deck. Players draw 
cards from the Power Struggle Deck based on how many spaces 
they control in the country, as follows:
• 6 cards for the first space they control. 
• 2 cards for each additional space they control.
• If a player does not control any spaces in the country, he does 
not receive any cards in this step.
8.1.2 Various Events (e.g. ‘Roundtable Talks,’ ‘Peasant Parties 
Revolt’ and ‘National Salvation Front’) affect the number of cards 
a player receives in a Power Struggle. If any of them apply, adjust 
the cards held by each player accordingly at this time, before the 
players have examined their cards.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has played the Poland Scoring card. 
The Democrat controls the Catholic Church, Polish Writers, Wro-
claw and Krakow spaces. The Communist controls Bydgoszcz and 
Warzsawa. ‘Roundtable Talks’ Event is in front of the Democrat. 
The Democrat is dealt 12 cards, and the Communist is dealt 8. 
Then the Democrat takes 2 cards from the Communist before the 
players see their hands.
8.1.3 There are three types of cards in the Power Struggle deck: 
suited cards, leader cards and wild cards. There are four suits in 
the deck: Petition, March, Strike and Rally in the Square. There are 
leader cards that correspond to the various types of spaces on the 
map (elites, intellectuals, workers, etc.). There are also wild cards 
allowing a player to draw additional cards, force the opponent to 
discard cards, block a suit from being played or remove an op-
ponent SP from the map. 
8.2 RAISE THE STAKES
8.2.1 Each player, beginning with the player who played the Scor-
ing card, decides whether he would like to Raise the Stakes in the 
Power Struggle. 
8.2.2 In order to Raise the Stakes, a player must discard 3 Power 
Struggle cards from his hand. If he does so, there is a +1 modifier 
to the Victory Point and Support Loss die rolls for the winner of the 
Power Struggle, no matter who wins. This modifier is cumulative; if 
both players Raise the Stakes, the die rolls receive a +2 modifier. 
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has 14 cards in his hand, and the Com-
munist has only 6. The Democrat decides to raise the Stakes and 
discards 3 Power Struggle cards. The Communist does not raise 
the stakes.
8.3 PLAY CARDS
8.3.1 The player who played the Scoring card begins the Power 
Struggle with the initiative. Initiative may change back and forth 
several times before the Power Struggle is resolved. The player 
who currently has the initiative is considered the attacker and his 
opponent is considered the defender.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has played the Poland Scoring card 
so the Democrat begins the Power Struggle with the initiative and 
will choose the first card to play.

NOTE: If the attacker received no cards because he did not control 
any spaces, the defender immediately wins the Power Struggle. 
Proceed to Aftermath of the battle (8.4).
8.3.2 Battle Rounds: The card play phase of a Power Struggle 
is divided into Power Struggle Rounds. Players conduct Power 
Struggle Rounds one at a time until the winner of the Power Struggle 
is determined. In each Round, follow the following procedure:
STEP 1. The attacker plays a Power Struggle card:
• Any suited card (Rally in the Square, Strike, March, or Petition) 
may be played.
• A leader card may be played, but only if the attacker controls a 
space of the leader’s type in the country. If a leader card is played, 
the attacker must select a suit. Proceed as if a suited card were 
played in that selected suit.
• Any wild card can be played (EXCEPTION: Tactic Fails). If a 
wild card is played, follow its instructions, skip Steps 2 and 3 and 
begin a new battle round with the defender as the new attacker. 
No response card from the defender is necessary.
NOTE: If the attacker has no playable cards, the Power Struggle 
is over, and the defender is the winner. Proceed immediately to the 
Aftermath of the battle (8.4).
EXAMPLE: The Democrat doesn’t have any Wild Cards. His 
longest suit is March where he has four cards, so he decides to 
lead a March. He chooses his strongest March card, which is a 
March-6 . 
STEP 2. The defender can match the attacker’s card:
• Any card of the same suit as the one played may be used.
• A leader card may be used to match, but only if the defender 
controls a space of the leader’s type in the country.
• Tactic Fails can be played at this time. If so, neither player may 
play a card in that suit (or designate that suit as the suit played 
when using a leader card) for the rest of the Power Struggle. The 
defender may not counterattack in the round in which he plays 
this card: skip Step 3 and begin a new Power Struggle Round 
with the attacker maintaining the initiative.
NOTE: If the defender cannot or chooses not to match the attacker’s 
card, the Power Struggle is over and the attacker is the winner. The 
attacker is considered to have won the Power Struggle using the 
suit that he used to attack in Step 1. Proceed immediately to the 
Aftermath of the Power Struggle. (8.4)
EXAMPLE: The Communist has a March card and an Elite Leader 
card that he could play. He could not play his Intellectual Leader 
card because he does not control the Polish Writers space. He 
chooses to save the Elite Leader and plays his March card to match 
the Democrat’s card.
STEP 3. The defender rolls a die to gain initiative:
• To gain the initiative, the defender must roll equal to or higher 
than the rank of the Power Struggle card that the attacker used 
to attack.
• Rally in the Square cards all have a rank of 1. If a card with 
this value is used to attack, the counterattack is automatic: no 
roll is needed.
• If the defender gains the initiative, he takes the role of the attacker 
in the next Power Struggle Round. If not, the attacker maintains 
initiative and is once again the attacker.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat led with a March 6, so the Communist 
must roll a 6 to seize the initiative. He rolls a 2 and so the Democrat 
retains initiative and can lead another card.
8.3.3 A player cannot concede a Power Struggle if he has the initia-
tive. If he has a playable card, he must play that card.
8.3.4 A player must roll to counterattack if he is permitted to do 
so.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has retained the initiative. He plays 
another March. As the attacker, he must play a card because he 
has a playable card in his hand. The Communist elects to concede 
the Power Struggle. Because he does not have initiative, he is not 
required to play his Elite Leader card, even though he could play the 
card to match the Democrat’s March. The Communist has seen the 
writing on the wall and would rather lose to a March than play his 
only Leader card and then be vulnerable to a Rally in the Square. 
The Democrat wins the Power Struggle in Poland!
8.4 AFTERMATH
8.4.1 After the winner of the Power Struggle is decided, there are 
two die rolls. The first determines how much Support the loser must 
remove from the country, and the second determines how many Vic-
tory Points the winner receives (and, if the winner is the Democrat, 
whether or not the Communist is toppled from power).
• There is a –2 modifier to both rolls if a Petition was used to win 
the Power Struggle. 
• There is a +2 modifier to both rolls if a Rally in the Square was 
used to win the Power Struggle. 
• If either player Raised the Stakes in the Power Struggle, add 
a +1 modifier to both rolls for each player who did so. Even if 
the player who Raised the Stakes loses, the +1 modifier still ap-
plies.
• If the ‘Yakovlev Counsels Gorbachev’ Event is in effect and the 
Democrat won the Power Struggle, he receives an additional +1 
modifier to both rolls. 
8.4.2 Support Loss Die Roll: The loser rolls a die, modifies it using 
the modifiers described above, and checks the Support Loss column 
on the Power Struggle Results Table on the map to determine how 
many SPs he must remove from the country as a result of losing 
the Power Struggle. The loser chooses which SPs to remove. If 
the loser is required to lose more SPs than he has in the country, 
the surplus is ignored.
EXAMPLE: The Communist has lost the Power Struggle. He rolls 
a die for Support Loss, and the result is 1. Because the Democrat 
Raised the Stakes, there is a +1 modifier so the modified result is 2. 
Checking the Power Struggle Results Table, the Communist must 
remove 1 Support. Because Warszawa is a Battleground space, he 
removes 1 SP from Bydgoszcz.

8.4.3 Victory Point Die Roll: The winner rolls a die, modifies 
it using the modifiers described above, and checks the Victory 
Points column on the Power Struggle Results Table on the map to 
determine how many VPs he receives as an award.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat has won the Power Struggle. He rolls 
a die for Victory Points, and the result is 3. Because he Raised the 
Stakes, there is a +1 modifier so the modified result is 4. Checking 
the Power Struggle Results Table, the Democrat earns 2 VPs.
8.4.4 The Democrat takes Power: If the Democrat is the winner 
of the Power Struggle and his modified Victory Points Die Roll 
was 4 or more, the Communist loses Power in the country. Place 
a Democrat SP Marker next to the Scoring Box in the country and 
remove the Power Struggle card permanently from the Strategy 
deck. If the Communist wins the Power Struggle, or if the Democrat 
wins the Power Struggle but rolls a 3 or less after all modifiers, 
then the Communist retains Power.
EXAMPLE: The Democrat’s modified result of 4 means the Com-
munist is toppled from Power. Poland has become a democracy! 
The Democrat raises his glass and says, ”Sto Lat!” and “Na 
zdrowie!”
8.4.5 Communist voluntarily surrenders Power: If the Commu-
nist is not removed from Power, he may give up Power voluntarily 
at this time. He does not score for Power. Place a Democratic SP 
Marker next to the Scoring Box in the country and remove the 
Power Struggle card permanently from the Strategy deck.
“People, your government has returned to you!” —Czechoslo-
vak President Vaclav Havel, January 1, 1990.
8.4.6 Scoring for Power: If the Communist retains Power, the 
Power Struggle card remains in the game and is placed in the discard 
pile. The Communist scores a number of Victory Points equal to 
the country’s Power Value multiplied by the number of times the 
Power Struggle card has been played. 
• A country’s Power Value can be found on its scoring box on the 
map.
• The first time the Communist scores for Power in a country, place 
a Communist 1 value SP Marker next to the country’s scoring 
box. The next time the Scoring Card is played, if the Communist 
retains Power again, replace the 1 Communist SP with a 2 value 
Communist SP, and so on until the Democrat gains Power. This 
is a reminder for how many bonus VPs the Communist will earn 
for retaining Power in the next Power Struggle.
EXAMPLE: Poland’s Power Value is 3. The first time the Commu-
nist scores for Power in Poland he earns –3 VPs, the second time 
he would earn –6 VPs, and a third time would be worth –9 VPs. 
8.4.6 Democrat in Power: The Democrat never scores for Power. 
If the Democrat takes Power, the Scoring card is removed from 
the game.
8.5 Scoring
The final action of each Power Struggle is to score VPs based on 
how much support each player has in the country after the Power 
Struggle. See 9.0 for details on how to do this.
9.0 COUNTRY SCORING
9.1 General Rule
Country Scoring is the process of measuring how well a player is 
doing in a country and awarding victory points accordingly. Country 
Scoring takes place in a country at the following times:
1. During the last step of a Power Struggle in a country
2. During Final Scoring (10.4)
9.2 Country Scoring Terms
The following terms are used during country Scoring:
Presence: A player has Presence in a country if he controls at least 
one space in that country.
Domination: A player achieves Domination of a country if he 
controls more spaces in that country than his opponent and he 
controls more Battleground spaces in that country than his oppo-
nent. A player must control at least one non-Battleground and one 
Battleground space in a country in order to achieve Domination 
of that country.
Control: A player has Control of a country if he controls more 
spaces in that country than his opponent and he controls all of the 
Battleground spaces in that country.
9.3 Country Scoring Procedure
9.3.1 If a player has achieved Presence, Domination, or Control, 
he scores VPs equal to the number shown in the country’s Scoring 
Box for the highest of the three levels he has achieved.
EXAMPLE: The Communist has Domination in Romania. He 
receives 4 VPs for Domination. He does not receive an additional 
2 VPs for Presence even though he technically has Presence in 
the country.
9.3.2 Each player scores 1 additional VP for each Battleground 
space that he controls in the country. 
9.3.3 Each player totals up his VPs, and the net difference between 
the two scores is marked on the Victory Point Track.
EXAMPLE: The Communist plays the Poland Scoring Card. 
When it is time to score Poland at the end of the Power Struggle, 
the Communist controls Warszawa. The Democrat controls the 
Polish Catholic Church, Polish Writers, Wroclaw and Krakow 
spaces. Of these spaces, only Warzawa, Wroclaw and Krakow are 
Battleground spaces. Therefore, the Democratic player would get 
points for Dominating Poland (6 VPs) + 2 VPs for control of two 
Battleground spaces (Wroclaw and Krakow). Because the Democrat 
only has 1 SP in Gdansk, he does not control it. The Communist 
would receive 3 VPs for Presence in Poland +1 VP for control of 
a Battleground space (Warszawa). Because the Democrat controls 
more Battleground spaces, more spaces overall, and controls at 
least one non-Battleground space, he scores for Domination. Hav-
ing calculated relative Victory Points (8 VPs for the Democrat, 4 
VPs for the Communist), the difference between the two totals is 4. 
The VP marker is moved four spaces on the VP point track toward 
Democratic victory.

10.0 VICTORY CONDITIONS
There are four ways a player can win at 1989:
10.1 Automatic Victory: 
The instant one player reaches a score of 20 VP, the game is over 
and that player is the winner.
• Do not check for automatic victory in a Power Struggle until 
the entire process is complete and all VP adjustments have been 
made (including country Scoring).
• Automatic Victory does not apply in Final Scoring.
10.2 Illegal Held Card
If a player has a Scoring card in his hand in the Verify Held Card 
step of a Turn (4.5.4), that player loses and his opponent is de-
clared the winner. If both players hold Scoring Cards, the game is 
considered a draw.
“I’ve been looking for freedom.” —David Hasselhoff, Berlin, 
December 31, 1989
10.3 New Year’s Eve Party
If the New Year’s Eve Party Event was played during a turn and 
the Communist chose to activate the Event, the game ends at the 
end of that turn without going to Final Scoring.
• Before the game ends, the Democrat has the option to conduct 
a Power Struggle in any one country where the Communist still 
holds Power. If he does so, a Power Struggle is resolved just as 
if the country’s scoring card had been played, including country 
Scoring.
• The Democrat begins the Power Struggle with the initiative.
• Note: If the Democrat chooses Romania for the final Power 
Struggle, The Crowd Turns Against Ceausescu does take place if 
the card has been played for the Event but the effect has not yet 
taken place. The Tyrant is Gone cannot take place because the 
game ends immediately after the Power Struggle is resolved.
• After the final Power Struggle (if any), the player in the lead is 
declared the winner, as if at the end of Final Scoring (10.4.3).
10.4 Final Scoring
10.4.1 If neither side has achieved victory of any kind by the end 
of turn 10, then every country is scored according to the rules for 
country Scoring (9.0). No Power Struggles are conducted, and the 
Communist does not score for Power. However, the Communist 
does get a Final Scoring bonus for the number of countries where 
he retains Power:
 
Countries 
VP Bonus
 
–4
 
–8
 
–12
 
–16
 
–20
 
–24
10.4.2 Reaching 20 VPs or –20 VPs does not result in Automatic 
Victory during Final Scoring. 
10.4.3 Once all countries have been scored and the Communist 
has been given his bonus points, victory goes to the player who as 
accrued the most VPs. If the VP marker is on a positive number, 
the Democrat wins; if the VP marker is on a negative number, the 
Communist wins. If the VP marker is on zero, the game ends in 
a draw.
11.0 CARD CLARIFICATIONS
11.1 Austria-Hungary Border Reopened: If the Democrat is 
performing Support Checks in East Germany while this card is in 
effect, the Operations value bonus can only be used if both support 
checks take place in East Germany. If the first support check is being 
made in East Germany, the Democrat must state whether he intends 
to use the bonus (thereby committing to the second Support Check 
in East Germany) or not. If the Democrat does not explicitly state 
he is using the bonus before rolling the die, he may not use it. 
11.2 General Strike: The Communist player begins discarding a 
card and rolling during the Action Round following the event taking 
place. He discards only 1 card per Action Round. This event may 
stay in effect for more than 1 turn.
11.3 Helsinki Final Act: This card has an Event title in red although 
it is not a pre-requisite for another Democratic Event. The red title 
allows the Democrat to take the card from the Communist and play 
it for the Event using the Goodbye Lenin! Event.
12.0 U.S.S.R. STABILITY 
TRACK.
“Should Gorbachev be toppled, then our larger vision of 
democracy in Eastern Europe shall vanish.”—British Prime 
Minister Margaret Thatcher to American President George 
Bush, November 18, 1989.
12.1 The U.S.S.R. is stable at the start of the game, but through 
the play of Events the peoples of the Baltic Republics (Lithuania, 
Latvia and Estonia) will begin the process of declaring their inde-
pendence from the U.S.S.R.
12.2 When the Sajudis Event takes place, move the USSR stability 
marker to that space.
12.3 When The Baltic Way Event takes place, advance the USSR 
stability marker to that space.
12.4 When the Breakaway Baltic Republics Event takes place, 
advance the USSR stability marker to that space. Note: once 
Breakaway Baltic Republics has taken place, Gorbachev Charms 
the West can no longer be played as an Event.
12.5 When Kremlin Coup! takes place, advance the USSR stability 
marker to that space.
12.6 The VPs associated with these Events are stated beside the 
space on the Track and on the cards.

1. LEGACY OF MARTIAL LAW: For the Communists the imposi-
tion of martial law in Poland in December, 1981 was a great success. 
The raids that rounded up the leadership of Solidarity were meticulous-
ly planned and flawlessly executed. Solidarity was totally unprepared 
for the mass arrests, and lost almost all of its money and its printing 
and broadcast equipment. Nonetheless, martial law represented an 
unprecedented humiliation for the Communists. Never before had the 
civilian party become so weak it had to surrender power to the army.
2. SOLIDARITY LEGALIZED: 
Polish General Wojciech Jaruzelski 
was the strongest of the Communist 
leaders in Eastern Europe in 1989. 
He was the only leader who had the 
confidence of Mikhail Gorbachev, 
and it was this personal relationship 
with Gorbachev that permitted Ja-
ruzelski to proceed with his experi-
ment to legalize the Solidarity trade 
union, which had been suppressed 
under martial law. In January 1989, 
Jaruzelski proposed that the govern-
ment enter talks with Solidarity to 
set conditions under which the mar-
tial-law-era ban could be lifted. The 
majority of Central Committee delegates were opposed, but Jaruzelski 
stood before the meeting and presented an ultimatum: either Solidarity 
would be recognized or he would resign. Faced with losing the core 
of its leadership, the hard-line Central Committee members backed 
down. A few days later Solidarity agreed to enter negotiations with the 
regime, calling the invitation a “basic step toward social dialogue.” 
Solidarity’s leadership had little choice. Solidarity needed the talks 
to sustain the perception that it was the principal opposition to the 
regime, particularly after the strikes of April and August 1988, which 
were driven by younger workers who did not owe their allegiance to 
the old heroes of the 1980-81 movement. The talks ultimately resulted 
in Solidarity again being recognized as an independent trade union, 
and elections that would sweep Solidarity into power. For Jaruzelski, 
his dream of becoming the Polish Gorbachev was shattered. His will-
ingness to risk his position to bring the party to the negotiating table 
with Solidarity would be quickly forgotten. In the minds of the Polish 
people he would forever remain the face of martial law.
3. WALESA: Lech Walesa was the most important opposition leader 
of 1989. An electrician by trade, he led the 1980 strikes at the Lenin 
Shipyard in Gdansk that began the Solidarity movement. Walesa had 
an unabashed personality, and that complete lack of self-conscious-
ness gave him the ability to connect to the crowds. Though meagerly 
educated, he was an excellent debater. As a working man Walesa had 
contempt for the intellectual class, but he did work with them, and 
the partnership he was able to forge between the intellectuals and 
the workers was critical to ending communism in Poland. After 1989 
Walesa became one of the loudest voices in favor of tough lustration 
laws and prosecutions of former Communists for crimes committed 
during the martial law period. This put Walesa in direct opposition to 
his friend and choice for prime minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who 
wanted “a thick line” between the democratic and Communist eras. 
Walesa defeated Mazowiecki in the Polish presidential election of 1990. 
Since that time Walesa’s reputation has suffered, but he remains one 
of the great figures of the second half of 20th century. 
4. MICHNIK: The democrats in 
Poland had a perfect recipe for a 
social revolution: broad support 
among the working class and strong 
intellectual leaders, among them 
Jacek Kuron, Bronislaw Geremek, 
Tadeusz Mazowiecki and Adam 
Michnik. Michnik was part of 
the Worker’s Defense Committee 
founded after the Helsinki Accords 
to defend workers arrested during 
the 1976 strikes. As a Solidarity 
adviser, he was arrested in the first 
sweep during martial law and spent 
the early 1980s in jail. As a result of 
the roundtable agreement, Michnik 
was able to publish an election newspaper (“Gazeta Wyborcza”) which 
remains Poland’s second largest circulation newspaper. Michnik’s 
essay “Your President, Our Prime Minister” is widely credited for 
establishing the structure for a compromise that allowed Solidarity to 
form Poland’s first non-Communist government in August 1989.
5. GENERAL STRIKE: Of all the methods of protest chosen by the 
revolutionaries of 1989, the general strike was considered the riski-
est, both to the regimes and to the movements themselves. A strike 
was a test, a gauge of worker support for the aims of the democratic 
revolution. Often the opposition leadership was leery to call them. A 
poor showing of participation risked revealing that the revolution was 
limited to the intelligentsia and the students - that the workers still 
supported the regime. For the Communists, already facing econo-
mies in crisis, a strike broadly supported for an extended period was 
an existential threat and belied their claim to be the vanguard of the 
working class. 
6. BROUGHT IN FOR QUESTIONING: All the countries of the 
Warsaw Pact had security services and all conducted surveillance on 
their own people. Two, the Stasi of East Germany and the Securitate 
of Romania, were particularly central to the events of 1989 and have 
their own event cards. This event represents the general harassment 
that dissidents faced on a daily basis.
7. STATE RUN MEDIA: Control of the media was critical to main-
taining support for the regimes. The level of propaganda varied widely 
within the region, with the Polish press generally speaking the most 
free and the Romanian being nothing more than a propaganda machine. 
State control of the press was so strict in Romania that every type-
writer in the country had to be registered and a sample of the typeface 
submitted to the state, so that it could be compared to any petition or 
samizdat critical of the regime.
8. PRUDENCE: George Bush was famously prudent, and his caution 
served him well in 1989. Bush cultivated personal relationships with 
foreign leaders, jotting personal notes and making calls. He worked 
closely with Helmut Kohl, especially during the 2-plus-4 talks over 
German reunification. Baker and Shevardnadze also forged a personal 
bond that helped end the Cold War. Most of all, Bush allowed events 
to unfold without undue celebration. He used restraint to try to protect 
Gorbachev from attack by Kremlin hardliners. The effects of this event 
represent either side being too cautious.
9. THE WALL: From the foundation of the G.D.R. in 1949 through 
construction of the Wall in 1961 about 20% of the East German popu-
C A R D N O T E S

lation left the country, most of them through West Berlin. Worse yet, 
most of the escapees were students, intellectuals and young workers, 
leaving behind an aging population. Almost immediately, people at-
tempted to escape - by running, climbing, digging tunnels, and even 
by homemade air balloon. The border guards, or Green Troops, had 
“shoot-to-kill” orders, and an estimated 200 people were killed trying 
to cross to the West. 
10. CULT OF PERSONALITY: The Ceausescu personality cult was 
carefully managed. Bus loads of people would be taken to the airport to 
greet the Ceausescus when they would return from foreign trips. In any 
newspaper article that quoted the Ceausescus, other people could not 
be named. They insisted their photos be printed with red background 
to remind the people they were leaders of the Romanian revolution. 
When the great Conducator would give a speech, the crowd’s cheering 
would be amplified by speakers. The crowd would perform chants of 
praise such as “Ceausescu and the people!” while holding their banners 
aloft, all orchestrated and monitored by the Securitate. 
11. DISSIDENT ARRESTED: Truncheons pounding on the door was 
a familiar sound for the dissidents of Eastern Europe under commu-
nism. Many dissidents spent years in prison. In February 1989, Czech 
playwright Vaclav Havel was arrested on charges of hooliganism for 
his part in the Jan Palach Week demonstrations and spent a month in 
jail. His final arrest was on October 27, 1989.
12. APPARATCHIKS: The game 
1989 divides the Communist es-
tablishment into two broad groups: 
the elites who are at the top of 
the power structure and enjoy all 
the corresponding privileges of 
power, and the lower tier of party 
members who are in charge of the 
day-to-day operations of the state. 
These lower level bureaucrats are, 
for the most part, Communists in 
name only. For them the party is 
a means of career advancement. 
By and large the bureaucrats will 
survive the lustration process and 
hold important positions in post-
Communist governments.
13. STASI: The Ministry of State Security was a vast network of 
thousands of spies and hundreds of thousands of informants. It was, 
most of all, the outward manifestation of the East German Communists’ 
obsessive need for control. The other East European security forces 
were mostly instruments of physical suppression. Their tools were 
the truncheon, the water cannon, and in the case of the Securitate, the 
bullet. The Stasi was mostly an instrument of oppression of the mind, 
and its tool was information. Millions of people had dossiers in the 
Stasi headquarters. Even children were watched. A remark critical of 
the regime could follow an individual around for the rest of his life, 
denying him a job or the opportunity to travel.
14. GORBACHEV CHARMS THE WEST: This card represents 
Gorbachev leveraging his foreign policy successes into greater author-
ity at home, which he used to demote hardliners and elevate support-
ers of his agenda. By ending the Cold War, Gorbachev hoped to ease 
problems in his own economy and buy time to revitalize socialism. 
This card is also a reference to ‘Hannibal Charms Italy’, a strategy 
card from the game “Hannibal: Rome versus Carthage” on which the 
1989 Power Struggle deck is based.
15. HONECKER: Honecker was 
the principal architect of the Berlin 
Wall, built while he was a protégé 
of Walter Ulbricht. Honecker rose 
under Ulbricht’s tutelage until 
1971, when Honecker turned on 
Ulbricht and pushed him aside to 
seize power. Outwardly an ascetic, 
behind the walls of his compound 
he led a debauched lifestyle, feast-
ing while normal East Germans 
worked long hours for little pay. 
This facade was reflected in East 
Germany itself. Projecting an im-
age of success rivaling the West, 
the G.D.R. was in fact an economic 
basket case, relying on ever-increasing loans from Western banks to 
stay afloat. 
16. NOMENKLATURA: Despite the rhetoric of abolishing class 
divisions, the Communists had their own upper class. Members of 
the nomenklatura went to the elite party schools, had drivers for their 
Volvo limousines and shopped at their own stores that were well 
stocked with fresh fruits and imported wines. The life of privilege 
was in stark contrast to the deprivations of everyday life for the rest 
of the population.
17. ROUNDTABLE TALKS: Even the shape of the famous round 
table was a subject of negotiations between Solidarity and the regime. 
In typical Polish fashion one negotiator determined the record distance 
for human expectoration was 8 meters so all agreed the table must be at 
minimum 9 meters in diameter. Humor and a common pride of Polish-
ness under-girded the negotiations. Overshadowing everything was the 
possibility of Soviet intervention. When one Solidarity representative 
privately asked General Jaruzelski how far the Soviets would permit 
democratic reforms to proceed in Poland, Jaruzelski circumspectly 
replied, “I don’t know. Let us find out together.” The negotiations lasted 
from February to April 1989. Solidarity was led in the negotiations by 
Walesa and Michnik as well as intellectuals such as Bronislaw Geremek 
and (future Prime Minister) Tadeusz Mazowiecki. The government was 
led by the much hated Czeslaw Kiszczak, Minister of Internal Affairs 
during the 1981 imposition of martial law, but who was crucial to the 
ultimate success of the roundtable. The final results were free elections 
to a new body called the Senate, and permission that Solidarity could 
contest 35% of the seats in the Sejm. The president would be selected 
by the Sejm so all expected this to guarantee that Communists would 
retain the presidency and control of foreign and defense ministries. In 
game terms this event was drawn and played several times in 1989. 
The Polish round table process as well as the outcome would serve as 
a model for other east bloc states. Each would hold its own round table 
sessions, though without the strength of leadership of Solidarity.
18. POSZGAY DEFENDS THE REVOLUTION: In 1988 the 
Hungarians established a commission to review the events of the 
1956 revolution. The Soviets and Hungary’s long time ruler Janos 
Kadar had always termed the events of 1956 a “counter-revolution.” 
One of the members of this truth commission was Imre Pozsgay. The 
historical committee’s report was completed on January 27, 1989. 
Pozsgay, seeing an opportunity for himself, went on the radio the next 
morning to announce the committee’s findings: that the ‘56 revolu-
tion was a people’s uprising, not a counter-revolution, and that the 
participants were justified. This news created a sensation throughout 
Hungary. Finally, the leaders and participants in the revolution would 

be rehabilitated. There was only one problem: the report had not yet 
been approved for release by the government, and the party leadership 
remained deeply divided over the events of 1956. Many of them were 
Kadar loyalists, Grosz included. The Russians had not been consulted 
either, and they had always taken a much harder line against the 
Hungarian revolution than the Prague Spring. Pozsgay and the other 
reformers waited nervously for Soviet response. After several days a 
Soviet representative informed them that there would be no Soviet 
response. For the first of many times in 1989, Leonid Brezhnev was 
rolling over is his grave.
19. PAPAL VISIT: A visit from John Paul II usually included an open-
air Mass, which could draw hundreds of thousands. Many, less devout, 
would attend as a silent protest against the Communists.
20. DEUSTCHE MARKS: The Ost Mark was a non-convertible 
currency, and the East Germans needed D- Marks to pay interest on 
their hard currency debts. One way they earned hard currency was a 
“catch and release” program, in which dissidents would be arrested 
and then ransomed for money to West Germany. 
21. COMMON EUROPEAN HOME: This was the catch phrase of 
Gorbachev’s policy towards Western Europe. It was part of his overall 
peace offensive and meant that the Europeans should de-emphasize 
the role of NATO and the Warsaw Pact as rival alliances. It was not 
intended to marginalize the Americans so much as to suggest rival 
economic systems could exist side by side without threat of military 
confrontation. The phrase was in contrast to the Bush Administration’s 
policy of “a Europe whole and free.” 
22. Scoring card—POLAND
23. Scoring card—HUNGARY
24. ST. NICHOLAS CHURCH: 
The German revolution was largely 
a leaderless revolution. The fo-
cal point was instead a place of 
worship, St. Nicholas Church in 
Leipzig. The Lutheran church was 
the only East German institution 
that had some independence from 
the state. In the early 1980s the 
Church’s political focus was the 
nuclear disarmament movement. In 
September, 1982, the pastor of St. 
Nicholas Church, Christian Fuhrer, 
began leading services on Monday evenings called Peace Prayers. 
These Peace Prayers were small gatherings of the faithful praying for 
a peaceful end to the Cold War. They would continue weekly for the 
following 7 years. Then in the fall of 1989, quite suddenly, the Peace 
Prayers would erupt into the Monday Demonstrations.
25. PERESTROIKA: Perestroika was the name for Gorbachev’s 
domestic reform policies. The goal was to make socialism more effi-
cient, though the nature of those policies changed over time. Its central 
components were decentralization, replacement of corrupt bureaucrats 
and plant managers, and implementation of very limited market reforms 
grafted onto the socialist system. Some of the Eastern European Com-
munists gave lip service to perestroika. Ceausescu and Honecker were 
openly hostile to it. None made meaningful reforms.
26. HELSINKI FINAL ACT: The adoption of the Helsinki Accords 
was one of the biggest achievements of detente. Brezhnev viewed the 
agreements as a victory because it recognized current borders and ef-
fectively put a stamp of approval on Soviet seizure of the Baltics. He 
didn’t take seriously the human rights declarations, but the Helsinki 
Final Act became a tool for dissidents across Eastern Europe. In Poland 
the intellectuals created the K.O.R., the Workers’ Defense Committee. 
In Czechoslovakia Charter 77 was formed, originally to protest the 
banning of the rock group Plastic People of the Universe. Outside the 
K.O.R. these were small groups offering token opposition, but they 
established the framework within which the 1989 revolutionaries would 
operate. Except for Romania, the Communists were concerned about 
their international reputation, and the VP penalty for support checks 
in student and intellectual spaces represents the loss of international 
prestige suffered when violating basic norms of human rights. 
27. CONSUMERISM: In the 
1970s the Communists sought to 
gain legitimacy by improving liv-
ing standards, which had fallen 
noticeably behind the West. Em-
phasis was placed on production of 
consumer goods like refrigerators 
and washing machines. This binge 
was financed by heavy borrowing 
from the West, which set the stage 
for the debt crises of the 1980s. 
The policy of consumerism did 
give Eastern Europeans a taste for 
a better standard of living, and the 
bare store shelves of 1989 created 
discontent that turned many against 
the Communists.
28. FACTORY PARTY CELLS: The Eastern European economies 
were built upon heavy industry. Some facilities employed up to 25,000 
people. In every factory was the party cell, a legacy of the early days 
of the Russian Revolution. In 1989, party representatives were respon-
sible for keeping up morale, organizing voluntary work days or official 
holiday observances, and monitoring worker loyalties. The party cells 
also could report under-performing managers or stolen materials to 
central planners. Most of all, the party cell was a reminder to workers 
that the party was a part of every aspect of daily life. 
29. JAN PALACH WEEK: Jan Palach was a student who commit-
ted suicide by self-immolation in Wenceslas Square in January, 1969. 
He was not protesting the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia so 
much as the acquiescence of the Czechoslovak people to the process 
of normalization. The Czechs retained the reputation of being the least 
rebellious people of the northern tier of Communist states, a reputation 
that would change in 1989. On the 20th anniversary of Jan Palach’s 
death, the human rights group Charter 77 and students in Prague 
organized marches that were violently suppressed. Jan Palach Week 
would be a preview of the Velvet Revolution.
30. TEAR GAS: Crowds larger than a few dozen usually were dealt 
with by specially trained security forces. In addition to shields and 
night sticks, these units had specially equipped vehicles with tear gas 
and water cannon to disperse crowds. 
31. INTELLIGENTSIA: Most of the intellectual leaders of the 1989 
revolutions were themselves former Marxists. The most important 
exception was Havel, who was the grandson of a wealthy Czech in-
dustrialist. The intellectuals became disillusioned with Marxism after 
the invasion of Czechoslovakia to crush the Prague Spring reform 
movement. The invasion was the turning point for communism in 
Eastern Europe. It showed that the Communists would not permit an 

alternative model of socialism with rights of dissent. For most of the 
‘70s and ‘80s the intellectuals did not call for open defiance of the 
regimes. Instead they called for creation of a civil society apart from 
the totalitarian system - a social space where individuals could interact 
outside party control. Kuron talked about “anti-politics.” Havel talked 
about “living in truth.” The idea was the regimes were too powerful 
to confront directly, but if people could construct an alternative social 
space, and act as if the state did not control their private lives, then 
the totalitarian foundation of communism would crack and the edifice 
would eventually be toppled.
32. PEASANT PARTIES: The “people’s democracies” were supposed 
to be societies where the workers and peasants were at the top of the 
social ladder, as opposed to the “bourgeois democracies” where the 
capitalists were on top. The Communists abolished opposition parties 
but kept the peasant parties, ostensibly to represent the peasants while 
the Communists represented the workers. In reality, legislatures were 
little more than window dressing; all decisions were made by the party 
Central Committee, or, more often, a small cadre including the Com-
munist Party General Secretary and his closest advisers.
33. SAJUDIS: This card represents 
the start of the Singing Revolution, 
the independence movements in the 
Baltic republics of the USSR. These 
cards have a dual purpose in the 
game as they also represent ethnic 
minorities in Romania and Bul-
garia. Nationalism has always been 
a potent force in Eastern Europe, 
and the Communists were never so 
popular as when they invoked na-
tionalism against Communists from 
other states. In 1989 tensions rose 
so high between Hungary and Ro-
mania over Ceausescu’s treatment 
of the Hungarian ethnic minority 
in Transylvania that the Hungarians redeployed some of their armed 
forces from the western border to the Romanian border, and Ceausescu 
made threats of nuclear attack. 
34. FIDESZ: FIDESZ (The Alliance of Young Democrats) was a 
political party of radical students based in Budapest. Members had 
to be under 30 years old. One of its leaders was Viktor Orban, a law 
student at Eotvos Lorand University. Orban’s speech at the reburial of 
Imre Nagy criticizing the regime for hypocrisy and calling for Soviet 
troops to withdraw from Hungary made him a national figure. Today 
FIDESZ is the most powerful political party in Hungary, sweeping 
the 2010 parliamentary elections and making Orban Prime Minister 
of Hungary.
35. HEAL OUR BLEEDING WOUND: This card represents the final 
withdrawal of the Red Army from Afghanistan on February 15, 1989. 
Gorbachev had called Afghan War the Soviets’ “bleeding wound.” 
Surprisingly, the Communist government in Afghanistan held on, de-
feating the mujahedin in a series of engagements in the spring of 1989. 
This strengthened Gorbachev’s hand when he refused to intervene to 
support the Communists in Eastern Europe.
36. DASH FOR THE WEST: The last victim shot while trying to 
cross through the Berlin Wall was Chris Gueffroy on February 6, 1989. 
He was 21 years old. His friend Christian Gaudian was also shot but 
survived. He was captured and sentenced to 3 years for first- degree 
illegal border crossing.
37. NAGY REBURIED: Imre Nagy was the leader of Hungary dur-
ing the 1956 revolution. He was a committed Communist, but he was 
repulsed by the excesses of the Stalin era. After the Soviet invasion 
of Hungary he was executed on orders of Krushchev and replaced by 
Janos Kadar, who remained in power for 30 years. Over the years, the 
lies from the regime about the revolution and circumstances surround-
ing Nagy’s death had alienated the people from the party. The reform 
Communists wanted to reconcile the party to the people by admitting 
the lies of the past. One step was to rebury Nagy with state honors. 
Kadar’s successor Karoly Grosz opposed Nagy’s rehabilitation, and 
the re-interment ceremony represented a victory for the reform wing 
of the party. Removing the Communist SPs in the elite space repre-
sents Grosz and the rest of the old guard of the Kadar regime being 
pushed aside.
38. THE JULY CONCEPT: This was Todor Zhivkov’s high sounding 
name for a program of reforms to the Bulgarian economy. On paper 
it went farther than perestroika in terms of allowing privatization of 
smaller firms and public-private partnerships. The July Concept has 
the distinction of being the only reform proposal in Eastern Europe that 
was criticized in the official Soviet press for going too far, too fast. In 
reality it never went anywhere, but it was a good example of Zhivkov 
trying to be whatever he thought would curry favor with Moscow at 
the time. Shameless sycophancy was how he had been able to survive 
as ruler of Bulgaria for more than 30 years.
39. ECO-GLASNOST: Single issue environmental groups played 
an important role in the 1989 revolutions. Eco-Glasnost was initially 
a movement based in Ruse, Bulgaria, to protest air pollution from a 
Romanian chemical plant across the Danube River. Eco-Glasnost later 
became a vehicle for broader anti-Communist protests, and was one of 
the founding groups of the Union of Democratic Forces.
40. HUNGARIAN DEMOCRAT-
IC FORUM: Most of the opposi-
tion movements in 1989 tried to 
incorporate some reference to unity 
or dialogue in their name: This Fo-
rum, That Forum, Union of these 
or those, Alliance of such and such. 
One reason was that in societies 
where dissent was systematically 
suppressed, merely the idea of dia-
logue with the regime was radical. 
The second reason was many of 
these umbrella groups contained 
elements that were adverse to one 
another, and united only in their 
opposition to the Communists. The 
M.D.F. was the main opposition party in Hungary, and it was more 
nationalistic than most of the other prominent Eastern European op-
position groups. It was especially concerned with treatment of Hungar-
ians in Romania and removal of Soviet forces from Hungarian soil. 
This event also represents the Communists abandoning the Leninist 
principle, enshrined in each country's constitution, that the Party must 
retain a "leading role" in society.
41. CEAUSESCU: Despite rather stiff competition, Nicolae Ceausescu 
may be judged the worst of the Communist leaders in 1989. His early 
defiance of the Soviets (he opposed the 1968 invasion of Czechoslo-
vakia) made him popular with Western governments, but by 1989 his 
Stalinist brutality had made him an international pariah. There was 
virtually no open opposition to the Ceausescu regime inside Romania 

until December 1989. The presence of any criticism was attributed to 
a conspiracy against him, usually imagined to have originated in Bu-
dapest, Washington, or even Moscow. Romanians whose loyalty was 
doubted would be denounced in the party newspaper, or placed under 
house arrest. Sometimes they would simply disappear.
42. Scoring Card—East Germany
43. Scoring Card—Bulgaria
44. INFLATIONARY CUR-
RENCY: The Eastern European 
economies suffered a problem of 
monetary overhang. Goods were 
priced according to political con-
siderations rather than supply and 
demand, with prices almost always 
set below the market clearing price. 
This created chronic shortages of 
most necessities, while consum-
ers had cash they could not spend. 
Attempts to rationalize the system 
usually included partial freeing of 
prices, which typically resulted in 
strikes and unrest. Poland had the 
most severe inflation problems 
in 1989, where Consumer Price Inflation for the year reached over 
600%.
45. SOVIET TROOP WITH-
DRAWALS: The presence of So-
viet troops was always a thorn in 
the side of the Eastern Europeans, 
who viewed them as an occupy-
ing force. As part of Gorbachev’s 
New Thinking in foreign relations 
he proposed sweeping reductions 
in Soviet conventional arms in 
Europe. These proposals were 
announced at Gorbachev’s UN 
speech in December 1988. Initially 
skeptical of Russian intentions, 
American President George Bush 
found himself playing catch up in 
the court of public opinion, as the 
two sides entered a bidding war of who would disarm faster. The result 
was the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, negotiated 
throughout 1989 and signed in 1990. 
46. GOODBYE LENIN!: This is a reference to the popular Ostalgie 
film about an East German Communist woman who falls into a coma 
before the opening of the Berlin Wall. When she recovers the doctors 
tell her son that he must prevent her from discovering the G.D.R. no 
longer exists or the shock might kill her. So her son goes about rec-
reating life in East Germany in their apartment, including shopping 
for her favorite Spreewald pickles. It’s also a reference to the role of 
pop culture in the revolutions of 1989 and the role of Cold War films 
(Dr. Strangelove and War Games) in the game Twilight Struggle, on 
which 1989 is based.
47. BULGARIAN TURKS EXPELLED: Zhivkov started a Bulgar-
ization campaign against the Turks in the early 80s, requiring ethnic 
Turks to adopt Bulgarian sounding names and defacing gravestones 
with Turkish names. Looking for a scapegoat for Bulgaria’s economic 
problems, the Communists ordered the Turks to leave Bulgaria. During 
the summer of 1989, hundreds of thousands of ethnic Turks were driven 
from Bulgaria. The move was widely condemned in the international 
community as a human rights abuse. Ironically, the expulsion of the 
Turks made Bulgaria’s economic crisis even worse, as city residents 
were forced to go into the fields to harvest crops. 
48. “WE ARE THE PEOPLE!”: 
This was the most famous chant 
of the marchers in the Monday 
Demonstrations. They were telling 
the “people’s democracies” that the 
people were against them. In the 
game 1989 it also represents the 
crowds growing so large, and the 
regime growing so weak, that the 
security forces could not to use vio-
lence to stop the demonstrations.
49. FOREIGN CURRENCY 
DEBT BURDEN: All the East Bloc 
countries except Romania owed 
large sums to western governments 
and banks. These loans were in hard currency so they had to be repaid 
using income generated from exports. The debts grew so large that 
they could only be serviced by borrowing ever greater sums, creating 
a debt spiral.
50. THE SINATRA DOCTRINE: This phrase was coined by Soviet 
press spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov to describe the new Soviet 
policy toward Eastern Europe that replaced the Brezhnev Doctrine. 
Each socialist state would be permitted to pursue its own path, as in 
the Frank Sinatra song “I Did It My Way.”
51. 40th ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION: On October 7 the East 
Germans threw a party for the fortieth anniversary of the creation 
of the G.D.R. It was a surreal event with Honecker toasting to the 
achievements of real, existing socialism while attendees could hear 
the crowds shouting and demonstrating in the streets outside. During 
the parade, before the reviewing stand of Communist dignitaries, the 
representatives of the Free German Youth started chanting “Gorby 
help us!” “Gorby help us!” Honecker pretended not to hear them. 
Polish General Secretary Mieczyslaw Rakowski asked Gorbachev if 
he understood the chant. Gorbachev said yes. Rakowski replied, “It’s 
over.” Honecker was ousted 11 days later.
52. NORMALIZATION: This was the process of removing tens of 
thousands of Prague Spring supporters from the government and the 
Czechoslovak Communist party. It was implemented by Milos Jakes, 
who later rose to replace Gustav Husak as leader of Czechoslovakia. 
In his rise to power Jakes spoke the words of a reformer, praising per-
estroika, but in reality acted as a hardliner. He refused to rehabilitate 
Dubcek or the other leaders of the Prague Spring. Jakes was widely 
mocked by the Czech people as a colorless incompetent.
53. LI PENG: Li was the leader of the hardliners that wanted a violent 
crackdown on the students in Tiananmen Square. Opposing him was 
Communist Party General Secretary Zhao Ziyang, a liberal who had 
been instrumental in China’s move toward an export-based market 
system. Zhao was also a close friend of Hu Yaobang, whose death had 
originally prompted the protests (the Reformer Memorialized/Reformer 
Discredited space on the Tiananmen Square track). In the middle was 
Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping. Deng sided with Li, and martial law 
was declared. Zhao was removed as CCP General Secretary shortly 

after the Tiananmen Square massacre and spent the remaining 15 years 
of his life under house arrest.
54. THE CROWD TURNS AGAINST CEAUSESCU: Inexplica-
bly, after the uprising in Timisoara started, Ceausescu went to Tehran 
to negotiate an arms deal with the Iranians. He returned on the 21st 
and gave a lengthy harangue to the party Congress, then went out on 
the balcony of the Central Committee building to address the crowd. 
This speech was broadcast on live television. After a few moments, 
a murmur went through the crowd. Then the scripted chants stopped, 
and people began to scream, boo and hiss. Others started chanting 
“Timisoara! Timisoara!” and “Death to the Dictator!” Elena shouted, 
“Offer them something.” but Nicolae was too stunned to say anything 
except “Hello! Hello!” Bodyguards rushed him from the balcony, and 
the broadcast feed was cut off. But it was too late for the Ceausescus 
- all Romania had seen the start of the revolution.
55. Scoring Card—Czechoslovakia
56. FOREIGN TELEVISION: 
Though travel was restricted across 
the Eastern Bloc, the people could 
emigrate every night by watch-
ing T.V. The most popular adult 
education course in Romania was 
the Russian language, so the Ro-
manians could understand Russian 
T.V. shows. Bulgarians watched 
Yugoslavian T.V. East Germans 
kept up with the world through 
West German news and programs 
like “Lindenstrasse”, except for 
the area around Dresden (dubbed 
“The Valley of the Clueless”) where 
geography blocked the signal.
57. CENTRAL COMMITTEE RESHUFFLE: This card represents 
the common practice of shoving aside an aging leader to give the party 
a fresh face without changing any policy (Grosz replacing Kadar, 
Jakes replacing Husak, and Egon Krenz replacing Erich Honecker). 
This was usually the equivalent of the organ grinder being replaced 
with the monkey.
58. AUSTRIA-HUNGARY BORDER RE-OPENED: As part of 
their reform agenda the Hungarian Communists took down the barbed 
wire fence that separated Hungary from Austria. The East Germans, 
who frequently took summer holidays in Hungary, started crossing the 
open border and emigrating through Austria to West Germany, where 
they were granted immediate citizenship. The East German leadership 
was outraged that the Hungarians were violating a treaty by allowing 
G.D.R. citizens to emigrate. The trickle became a flood before the 
G.D.R. began refusing permission to travel to Hungary. 
59. GRENZTRUPPEN: “Green Troops” was the nickname for border 
guards that patrolled the border with West Germany and the Wall. 
60. TOXIC WASTE: Communism was an environmental catastrophe 
for Eastern Europe. Mining, heavy manufacturing and chemical plants 
were the basis of the economy. There was little environmental regula-
tion, and what regulations there were often were ignored. People in 
affected areas suffered greater risk of respiratory and other health prob-
lems including birth defects, as well as shortened life expectancy.
61. THE MONDAY DEMONSTRATIONS: After a summer break 
the Peace Prayers resumed at St. Nicholas. In September the crowds 
grew from a few hundred to several thousand. The confrontation with 
the regime finally reached a climax on October 9th. The local Stasi 
chief made ominous warnings about issuing double allotments of am-
munition and body bags to “defend the achievements of socialism.” 
A group of civic leaders, including conductor Kurt Mazur, broadcast 
a petition across the city calling for non-violence on all sides. At 6 
p.m. there were 70,000 Leipzigers marching around the Ringstrasse. 
The crowds overwhelmed the Stasi, and without clear orders from 
Berlin the local officials backed down. From that point, the regime 
lost its nerve and rapidly collapsed. The demonstrations spread first 
to Dresden, then to Berlin, where on November 4th 500,000 rallied 
against the S.E.D. The Wall was opened 5 days later.
62. YAKOVLEV COUNSELS 
GORBACHEV: Alexander Ya-
kovlev and Eduard Shevardnadze 
were the most important advisers 
to Mikhail Gorbachev in 1989. In 
1983, while Gorbachev was Min-
ister of Agriculture, Yakovlev and 
Gorbachev had a chance meeting 
in Canada that would change the 
course of the Cold War. The two 
did not know each other well, so 
they began speaking as if on sort 
of a reform Communist blind date. 
Each knew that a single heretical 
statement could be discovered by 
the KGB and used by political 
enemies to remove them from their positions in the elite of the party. 
Then Yakovlev, perhaps sensing Gorbachev’s willingness to broach 
the subject, began to bare his feelings. He later remembered the con-
versation, “both of us suddenly were just kind of flooded and let go. 
I somehow, for some reason, threw caution to the wind and started 
telling him about what I considered to be utter stupidities in the area 
of foreign affairs, especially about those SS-20 missiles that were 
being stationed in Europe and a lot of other things. And he did the 
same thing. We were completely frank. He frankly talked about the 
problems in the internal situation in Russia. He was saying that under 
these conditions, the conditions of dictatorship and absence of freedom, 
the country would simply perish. So it was at that time, during our 
three-hour conversation, almost as if our heads were knocked together, 
that we poured it all out and during that three-hour conversation we 
actually came to agreement on all our main points.” And so it was that 
the policies of the Gorbachev era and the end of the Cold War were 
hatched during an agricultural fact finding visit to Canada. Yakovlev’s 
policy would later be termed “initiativism” . The theory was that the 
Soviet system was doomed, but if the party reformed quickly enough 
then the people would accept the reformed party and allow it to remain 
in power by democratic means. 
63. GENSCHER: Hans-Dietrich Genscher was Foreign Minister 
of West Germany from 1974 to 1992. In September 1989 Genscher 
brokered a deal with Honecker to allow safe passage for East German 
refugees who had spent weeks camped out in the West German embassy 
in Prague. He played a critical role in relations between East and West 
Germany, as well as the development of the European Union and the 
unification of Germany. 
64. LEGACY OF 1968: The era of reform communism (roughly 1964 
to 1968) reached its peak with the Prague Spring, an experiment of 
“socialism with a human face.” It was led by Slovak Alexander Dubcek. 
In August 1968 Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev launched an invasion 

of Czechoslovakia by the Warsaw Pact (except Romania) to overthrow 
Dubcek and the reform Communists. Brezhnev was convinced a rival 
model of communism was a threat to communism everywhere. The 
legacy of 1968 was a recognition among intellectuals and Communist 
sympathizers in the West that the system was morally bankrupt. After 
the horrors of the imposition of communism across the region in the 
late 1940s and early 1950s, many were willing to give communism a 
second chance. They thought only a monster like Stalin, not the system 
itself, could be responsible for such arbitrary brutality. However, the 
Brezhnev doctrine stripped away any remaining claim to legitimacy 
the system had.
65. PRESIDENTIAL VISIT: Bush traveled to Warsaw and Budapest 
in July 1989. He met privately with Walesa and the Hungarian opposi-
tion leadership. Walesa had hoped for an Eastern European Marshall 
Plan. He would be disappointed. Bush’s message to the Hungarian 
dissidents was to be prudent, slow down and not to rock the boat. He 
didn’t feel they were ready to take power. The visit amounted to a 
photo opportunity for Bush and little more.
66. NEW FORUM: New Forum was one of many such organizations 
established in 1989 whose main goal was simply opening a dialogue 
with the regime. It was the first in East Germany. New Forum was 
important in moving the protest movement outside the sanctuary of the 
Lutheran churches, but was eventually superseded by events.
67. REFORMER REHABILITATED: In the midst of the Velvet 
Revolution, Havel called for Alexander Dubcek, the leader of the 
Prague Spring, to visit the capital. When Dubcek spoke to the crowd 
in Wenceslas Square they cheered him with the phrase “Dubcek to the 
castle!” meaning that he should be reinstalled as ruler of Czechoslova-
kia. Dubcek stayed in Prague during the revolution and was on stage at 
a press conference with the Civic Forum when it was announced that 
the Communist government had resigned. The bittersweet reaction on 
Dubcek’s face was in stark contrast to the jubilation in the rest of the 
room. Dubcek was a humanist, but he remained a loyal Communist 
too, one who could have led a reform movement inside the CCP if the 
hardliners had agreed to rehabilitate him. 
68. KLAUS AND KOMAREK: 
Vaclav Klaus and Valtr Komarek 
were Czech economists that became 
outspoken critics of the regime. 
They are representative of many 
technocrats that worked inside the 
Communist system but successfully 
transitioned to take important posi-
tions in post-Communist govern-
ments. Klaus became Finance Min-
ister in December 1989, and later 
became Prime Minister during the 
dissolution of Czechoslovakia. He 
is currently president of the Czech 
Republic. They also represent the 
wide range of ideologies inside the 
Civic Forum. Klaus is a Thatcherite. Komarek remains one of the lead-
ing voices for social democratic values in the Czech Republic.
69. SYSTEMATIZATION: One of the crazier ideas sprung from 
Nicolae Ceausescu’s head was to “systematize” Romania by destroy-
ing small villages and transplanting the villagers to cities. This was 
part of his plan to create a “multilateral developed socialist society.” 
Systematization was implemented only on a limited scale, particularly 
around the suburbs of Bucharest. Ceausescu also bulldozed vast swaths 
of downtown Bucharest to create his People’s Palace. Instead of bull-
dozing, rural villages might be targeted with cutting off electricity, 
heating fuel or even supplies of food.
70. SECURITATE: The Romanian 
secret police were the most violent 
in Eastern Europe, responsible for 
the arrest and deaths of thousands of 
people. The Securitate used surveil-
lance techniques similar to the East 
German Stasi, from wire tapping 
telephones to pregnancy testing 
(as a part of Ceausescu’s forced 
population growth policies). The 
Securitate was also Ceausescu’s 
personal military force. They were 
fiercely loyal to him and were better 
equipped (including armored per-
sonnel carriers) and better compen-
sated than the rest of the Romanian 
armed forces.
71. KISS OF DEATH: This is a picture taken at the 40th anniversary 
celebration of the G.D.R.. While in East Germany Gorbachev made 
a few complimentary remarks about the S.E.D., but nothing at all in 
support of Honecker. It was obvious that Gorbachev thought it was 
time for Honecker to go.
72. PEASANT PARTIES REVOLT: In July, the situation in Poland 
had reached an impasse. After Solidarity’s stunning victory in the 
June elections, Jaruzelski nominated Kiszczak to form a Communist-
led government. However, all knew the government would have no 
legitimacy without Solidarity agreeing to participate, and Solidarity 
refused. Instead Walesa approached the Communists’ traditional peas-
ant party allies in the United People’s Party, which had won some seats 
in the Sejm, and they agreed to enter a coalition with Solidarity. It was 
enough for Solidarity to form a government.
73. LASZLO TOKES: Tokes was an ethnic Hungarian minister of 
the Reformed Church and one of the few people inside Romania brave 
enough to criticize the Ceausescu regime. The decision to evict him 
from his home on December 16th led to the Timisoara protests and 
massacre.
74. FRG EMBASSIES: After the 
opening of the Austro-Hungarian 
border, East Germans started fleeing 
to West Germany through Austria. 
The S.E.D.’s response was to close 
off travel to Hungary, which left 
thousands of East Germans stranded 
in West German embassies in 
Prague and Budapest. The embas-
sies served as a safe haven until 
a resolution could be negotiated. 
Ultimately Honecker allowed the 
refugees to leave, but only if they 
traveled through East Germany first 
so he could claim they had been 
expelled.
75. EXIT VISAS: Travel was tightly restricted across the Eastern Bloc; 
a visa permitting travel to the West was a coveted prize. 

76. WARSAW PACT SUMMIT: 
The Bucharest Summit was the 
first meeting of leaders since the 
Polish elections. In a complete 
reversal of 1968, Ceausescu called 
for armed intervention in Poland 
and Hungary to stop the slide away 
from socialism. Hungarian Prime 
Minister Nemeth glanced across 
the table to the Soviet delegation, 
where the Soviet representative just 
rolled his eyes and shook his head 
“no.” There would be no repeat of 
the ‘56 invasion. 
77. SAMIZDAT: Without a free 
press, dissidents relied on secret publication to spread their message. 
Often these were produced by hand or typewriter and laboriously 
recopied. One of the most famous Samizdat was Havel’s essay “The 
Power of the Powerless.”
78. WORKERS REVOLT: Austerity programs were never popular 
with the workers, whether imposed by Communist or post-Communist 
governments. Usually these involved freeing prices and imposing wage 
controls, along with shuttering money-losing factories. Appeasing 
workers through wage concessions had to be balanced against main-
taining the credibility of fiscal reforms for Western lenders.
79. THE THIRD WAY: The game 1989 is a binary system, but most of 
the advocacy groups, and even the Communists themselves, were not so 
easy to classify. For instance the founders of the opposition group New 
Forum did not want to do away with socialism or East Germany itself. 
They opposed the materialism of the West German “elbow society.” 
The intellectuals of the G.D.R. such as Christa Wolf sought a third way 
between communism and capitalism, but their ideals were swept away 
in the tide. As the people learned of the wealth of the Federal Republic 
and the rampant corruption of the S.E.D. leadership, opinion turned 
decisively in favor of unification with West Germany. 
80. NEPOTISM: The old joke in Romania was the Ceausescus were 
building “socialism in one family.” Family connections accounted for 
much of the opportunity for advancement in the Balkans under com-
munism. Sometimes this would work out well. Lyudmila Zhivkova 
(pictured on the card) was a member of the politburo and acted as a 
cultural minister under her father Todor Zhivkov, promoting the arts. 
Her brother Vladimir Zhivkov was a disaster, and his promotion was 
one of the factors that turned the rest of the Bulgarian leadership against 
“Uncle Tosho.” The Ceausescus’ son Nicu Ceausescu (also pictured) 
was a playboy who lost a fortune of the Romanian treasury gambling 
in casinos and entertaining women. 
He drank himself to death and died 
of cirrhosis of the liver in 1996.
81. THE BALTIC WAY: This was 
a 350 mile chain of people holding 
hands across Estonia, Latvia and 
Lithuania on August 23, 1989. 
They were commemorating the 50th 
anniversary of the Molotov - Rib-
bentrop non-aggression pact, which 
had secret codicils that divided 
Poland close to the pre-Napoleonic 
imperial border and ceded the Baltic 
States to Stalin.
82. SPITZEL: On January 15, 1990 a mob ransacked the Stasi head-
quarters in Berlin. The Stasi files revealed that many prominent East 
Germans had been informants. One of the most important spitzel was 
the leader of the CDU in East Germany, Lothar de Maziere, who had 
to resign his position in the Kohl government. The Stasi headquarters 
is now a museum.
83. MODROW: Hans Modrow was the Dresden party chief of the 
S.E.D. After Honecker’s replacement, Egon Krenz, was ousted on 
December 7, Modrow became the de facto leader of East Germany. 
Modrow was known as a reformer, but his accession was too late to 
save the party or even the state. His role was principally as a caretaker 
while elections were organized to create a government that would 
negotiate East Germany’s demise.
84. BREAKAWAY BALTIC REPUBLICS: This event represents the 
Baltic States declaring their independence from the USSR. It prevents 
‘Gorbachev Charms the West’ as an event because Gorbachev could 
no longer translate foreign policy victories into power domestically 
as the USSR broke apart. Lithuania declared independence in March 
1990 and Latvia in May 1990. Estonia’s path to independence was 
more gradual, first adopting a sovereignty declaration in November 
1988 and finally holding a referendum on independence which passed 
easily in January 1991. 
85. TANK COLUMN/TANK MAN: The identity and the fate of the 
Tank Man remain a mystery. The men who escorted him off the street 
may have been just bystanders, or they may have been plain clothes 
police. The image of a solitary figure stopping a column of tanks is 
one of the iconic images of 1989.
86. “THE WALL MUST GO!”: 
On November 9th at the end of 
a long press conference G.D.R. 
spokesman Gunter Schabowski 
made a comment that travel re-
strictions from East Germany were 
to be lifted. He was asked when 
would this policy take effect, and 
after fumbling through his notes 
he said (mistakenly), “You should 
have this information...err.... The 
policy takes effect immediately.” 
The stunned western reporters ran 
to their telephones to call in the 
news. The news was broadcast by 
West German television back into 
East Germany, and people started gathering at the checkpoints to enter 
West Berlin. The border guards did not know what to do and could 
not get any direction. The crowds began chanting, “We will be right 
back!” and “The wall must go!” Finally the border guards lifted the 
gates, and the people walked into West Berlin. 
87. KOHL PROPOSES REUNIFICATION: On November 21st 
an envoy from Gorbachev presented Kohl’s adviser Horst Teltschik a 
hastily written note stating that the Soviets were prepared to consider 
all options for the future, “even the unthinkable”, including a united 
Germany without nuclear weapons and outside the NATO alliance. 
The Germans were shocked to read this offer, and Kohl decided he 
should take the initiative and propose a plan for reunification. Kohl 
presented a ten point plan on November 28th in a speech before the 
Bundestag. The British, the French and the Soviets were not consulted. 
The Americans, the fourth of the Allied powers, were sent a copy of 
the text but not in time for it to be read prior to Kohl delivering the 

speech. Needless to say the speech generated quite a reaction. Gor-
bachev was infuriated. In a meeting with Genscher the following week 
Shevardnadze compared Kohl to Hitler. In the end Kohl got what he 
wanted, a united Germany in NATO.
88. ADAMEC: In late November, after the resignation of CCP General 
Secretary Milos Jakes, Ladislav Adamec became the de facto leader 
of the Czechsolvak Communists. Adamec tried to assemble a coali-
tion government, appointing various Civic Forum figures as minority 
partners in a Communist-dominated government. The people rejected 
this arrangement, leading to the fall of the Adamek government on 
December 10. 
89. DOMINO THEORY: The Domino Theory was a justification for 
American military intervention in Southeast Asia. It held that if one 
country went Communist other countries in the region would follow. 
1989 saw the Domino Theory working in reverse. Once Poland and 
Hungary made democratic reforms, and it became clear there would 
be no Soviet intervention, the dissidents in the other countries became 
emboldened. 
90. CIVIC FORUM: The Velvet 
Revolution began November 17th 
as a march to commemorate the 
50th anniversary of the murder of 
Jan Opletal who had been killed 
by the Nazis in November 1939. 
The regime cracked down harshly, 
and there were false rumors that 
a student had been killed. The 
students called for a strike, which 
was supported by the actors. Even 
ninety year old Frantisek Cardinal 
Tomasek joined in supporting the 
students. On November 19th Civic 
Forum was created as the umbrella 
opposition group in the Czech 
lands. Its leadership was an eclectic mix of economists, actors, former 
Prague Spring Communists, students, workers and intellectuals who 
assembled nightly in the basement of The Magic Lantern Theater in 
Prague. Starting on November 20th, Civic Forum held enormous daily 
rallies in Wenceslas Square that ultimately toppled the regime.
91. MY FIRST BANANA: There was an approximately 3 week period 
after the opening of the wall on November 9th in which the future 
of the G.D.R. was unclear. After the East Germans had a chance to 
travel to the West (with a 100 DM welcoming present from the West 
German government) and see the abundance in the grocery stores 
and other shops, support for a reformed socialism in East Germany 
started to collapse. 
92. BETRAYAL: The record of cooperation between the Bulgarian 
and Romanian Orthodox churches and the Communist parties made the 
Orthodox churches unlikely sources for democratic protest. After the 
massacre in Timisoara, Romanian Patriarch Teoctist sent a telegram to 
Ceausescu praising his “brilliant activity” and “daring thinking.”
93. SHOCK THERAPY: Harvard professor Jeffrey Sachs, then just 
34 years old, served as consultant to Polish Finance Minister Leszek 
Balcerowicz in drawing a radical economic plan to transform Poland 
from a command to a free market economy. The plan was dubbed Shock 
Therapy because it was designed to give a jolt to the heart instead of 
using piecemeal reforms. Because Poland was facing hyper-inflation, 
interest rates were raised to over 100% and the zloty was pegged to 
the dollar. Prices were freed on virtually everything. Money losing 
firms were shuttered, creating massive unemployment in a society 
where unemployment had been virtually non-existent. Surviving state 
owned firms were gradually privatized. As a result of Shock Therapy 
Poland suffered a severe recession in 1990-1991, but recovered faster 
than other states that took a less aggressive approach. In a remarkable 
success story, since 1991 Poland has enjoyed 20 consecutive years of 
economic growth and was the only EU member state to avoid recession 
during the financial crisis of 2008-2009. 
94. UNION OF DEMOCRATIC FORCES: The UDF was a collec-
tion of opposition groups in Bulgaria founded December 7, 1989. Its 
leader was philosophy professor Zhelyu Zhelev, who would be elected 
president of Bulgaria in August 1990.
95. Scoring Card—Romania
96. THE CHINESE SOLUTION: The possibility of security forces 
using live ammunition against the crowds loomed over the events 
of 1989. In Timisoara, protests prompted by the eviction of Father 
Tokes resulted in dozens of people being killed by army and Securitate 
agents, and in Bucharest another 1,000 died between December 21 and 
December 25, though most of the victims were killed after the Ceaus-
escus had been captured. The +3 VP penalty represents international 
condemnation of the use of force against the demonstrators. 
97. THE TYRANT IS GONE: It’s 
remarkable that a man as paranoid 
as Nicolae Ceausescu had no escape 
plan in the event of an uprising or 
coup. After the crowd turned against 
him, Ceausescu and his wife Elena 
spent the night of the 21st in the 
Central Committee building, then 
attempted to escape the following 
day by helicopter. By radio the 
pilot was given instructions to land, 
and put the helicopter down only 
40 miles from Bucharest, telling 
the Ceausescus that he had to land 
because they were going to be fired 
upon. The Ceausescus then stole a 
car but were quickly captured and transported to a nearby army base. 
On Christmas Day there was a farcical trial, and they were put against 
the wall and shot.
98. POLITBURO INTRIGUE: In 
early November, Zhivkov created 
another international embarrass-
ment when he ordered a crackdown 
against Eco-Glasnost in front of 
a group of Western delegates to 
the Conference on Security and 
Cooperation in Europe meeting in 
Sofia. The CSCE (now the OSCE) 
is the Helsinki working group, and 
to have public beatings while host-
ing a human rights conference did 
not help Bulgaria’s reputation. A 
long planned palace coup against 
Zhivkov was launched on Novem-
ber 10th, and he was replaced by 
the coup’s instigator Petr Mladenov. Mladenov himself was forced 
to resign in July 1990 when tapes surfaced of him calling for violent 

suppression of a UDF rally in December 1989, saying “The tanks had 
better come.”
99. LIGACHEV: Yegor Ligachev was the leading voice of the hard-
liners inside the Kremlin in 1989. Ligachev challenged Gorbachev’s 
hands off policy toward Eastern Europe, arguing instead for “the class 
nature” of Soviet foreign policy.
100. STAND FAST: This card 
represents supporters of either side 
resisting the crowd mentality that 
swayed so many in 1989. Polls 
showed majorities of Eastern Eu-
ropeans supported the egalitarian 
goals of socialism, while rejecting 
the corrupt and failed Communist 
parties. For most people the 1989 
revolutions were not ideological; 
they rejected utopian visions for 
the future. They just wanted to live 
normal lives. Certainly the work-
ers who revolted did not want to 
replace communism with a system 
that would immediately close their 
money-losing factory. Still, people could get caught up in the moment 
as part of the crowd. Voices of moderation were drowned out by pro-
verbial calls of “Off with their heads!” 
101. ELENA: The personality cult around Elena Ceausescu rivaled that 
of her husband. She was poorly educated, but in Romanian propaganda 
she became a brilliant chemist, taking credit for research conducted 
by real scientists. 
102. NATIONAL SALVATION FRONT: In Romania, the revolution 
began before an opposition movement had even emerged, and there 
simply were no dissidents to form an opposition leadership. Instead 
the second tier of the Communist party assumed the mantle of the op-
position. At first they promised free elections and democratic reforms, 
but soon reneged on those promises.
103. GOVERNMENT RESIGNS: The final capitulation of the re-
gimes might take the form of a resignation en masse by the government. 
This happened in December in East Germany and Czechoslovakia.
104. NEW YEAR’S EVE PARTY: The historic year 1989 ended 
with a party at the Brandenburg Gate on New Year’s Eve. The party 
has become an annual tradition in Berlin, with more than a million 
people celebrating on New Year’s Eve each year. This card is a Com-
munist event because it represents time running out on the Democratic 
player. 
105. PUBLIC AGAINST VIOLENCE: Historically support for com-
munism was weaker in Slovakia than in Bohemia and Moravia. Public 
Against Violence was the Slovak counterpart of Civic Forum, and like 
Civic Forum it broke apart quickly after the Velvet Revolution. Most 
of the leadership of Public Against Violence would go on to lead the 
Movement for a Democratic Slovakia, which advocated for Slovak 
independence, resulting in the Velvet Divorce and the dissolution of 
Czechoslovakia on January 1, 1993.
106. SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM ADOPTED: After 
the 1989 Revolutions, the Communist parties renamed themselves 
and splintered into factions. The reformed Communists adopted a 
left wing agenda that respected the new institutions of democracy. 
The Bulgarian Communists, renamed the Bulgarian Socialist Party, 
would retain power in free elections in March 1990. The Romanian 
Communists also remained in power through less honest means. The 
other Communists would return to power as social democrats across 
the region in the mid to late 1990s.
107. MASSACRE IN TIMISOARA: On December 16th a small 
group of parishioners of Timisoara’s Hungarian Reformed church 
started protesting outside the church over the eviction of their pastor 
Father Tokes. The church was near a train stop, and Romanian workers 
on the way to their factories saw the protest and started joining in. The 
crowd quickly grew and turned into an anti-Ceausescu demonstration. 
The demonstration turned to a riot as the crowd moved to ransack the 
party headquarters. The following day Securitate and army elements 
fired on the crowds, killing more than 80 people. News of the mas-
sacre spread to Bucharest, and outrage at the events helped foment the 
revolution beginning on December 21st.
108. ARMY BACKS REVOLUTION: The night of the 21st the 
Ceausescus were holed up inside the Central Committee building. The 
following morning it was reported that the Defense Minister Vasile 
Milea had shot himself after being discovered as a traitor. This was 
the turning point for the army. Assuming Milea had been murdered 
for refusing orders to fire on the crowds, the army decisively turned 
against the Ceausescus. The ensuing three days saw bloody street 
fights between the army and elements of the Securitate still loyal to 
the regime; however, it was often unclear who was shooting at whom. 
Many of the Securitate wore plainclothes and simply slipped away, 
while many ordinary Romanians were caught in the crossfire.
109. KREMLIN COUP!: This card represents the overthrow of 
Gorbachev by conservatives in the party. The abortive coup against 
Gorbachev was launched in August 1991 and accelerated the dissolu-
tion of the USSR.
110. MALTA SUMMIT: In De-
cember, 1989 Bush and Gorbachev 
held a summit on the island of Malta 
to discuss the rapidly changing situ-
ation in Eastern Europe. The meet-
ings had been scheduled to take 
place aboard Soviet and American 
destroyers on the Mediterranean 
Sea. Unfortunately there was terri-
ble weather in Malta, and a number 
of the scheduled meetings were can-
celled because of sea sickness. This 
summit can be considered the end 
of the Cold War. In its place there 
was to be a “New World Order.” 
The new world order was supposed 
to begin with co-operation between the super powers to combat arms 
trafficking and terrorism, and gradual inclusion of the Soviet Union 
in international organizations such as the G-7. It also entailed future 
debt relief to Eastern Europe through the International Monetary Fund 
and the World Bank. This grandiose talk sounded somewhat out of 
character for the prudent Mr. Bush, and he was criticized by some for 
not being more ambitious in support of Gorbachev. This New World 
Order would be brief, as the United States would find itself at war in 
the Gulf in 1990, and the Soviet Union itself would collapse and cease 
to exist in 1991.

Draw cards Phase:
Communist Strategy Hand
#1 
Ops 2: Legacy of Martial Law*
 
 
#14 Ops 4: Gorbachev Charms the West
#15 Ops 3: Honecker* (Communist)
#19 Ops 2: Papal Visit* (Democrat)
#22 
Poland Scoring
#27 Ops 3: Consumerism (Democrat)
#34 Ops 2: Fidesz* (Democrat)
#36 Ops 3: Dash for the West*
	
	
(Democrat)
Comment: The Communist draws a strong 
hand.
Democrat Strategy Hand
#9 
Ops 1: The Wall* (Communist)
#10 Ops 3: Cult of Personality*
	
	
#12 Ops 2: Apparatchiks* (Communist)
#26 Ops 1: Helsinki Final Act*
	
	
(Democrat) (red)
#33 Ops 2: Sajudis* (Democrat) (red)
#35 Ops 3: Heal Our Bleeding Wound*
	
	
#39 Ops 2: Eco-Glasnost* (Democrat)
#40 Ops 3: Hungarian Democratic
 
 
Forum* (Democrat)
Comment: The Democrat’s hand is a little low on Operations 
Points, but he has two red titled events (Helsinki and Sajudis) that 
will set him up well for later in the game.
Additional Set up placement phase:
 1 Communist support added to Miskolc, now at 1
 1 Communist support added to Debrecen, now at 1
 1 Democrat support added to Poznan, now at 1
 1 Democrat support added to Wroclaw, now at 1
 1 Democrat support added to Szeged, now at 2
 2 Communist support added to Debrecen, now at 3
 1 Communist support added to Bydgoszcz, now at 2
 2 Democrat support added to Poznan, now at 3
 2 Democrat support added to Szeged, now at 4
 2 Communist support added to Miskolc, now at 3
Comment: the Democrat adds SPs to control Posnan, which 
supports Gdansk and gives him Domination in Poland. He also 
takes Szeged which supports Budapest and gives him Presence 
in Hungary. The Communist has decided to place enough SPs in 
Hungary to control Debrecen and Miskolc. They support each 
S A M P L E T U R N
other. He adds 1 SP to Bydgoszcz, but does not have Presence in 
Poland. He is comfortable with this because he holds the Poland 
Scoring Card.
Turn 1 Action Phase
Turn 1, Communist action round 1
The Communist plays the following card to place support:
Ops 3: Dash for the West * (Democrat)
• 2 Communist support added to Bydgoszcz, now at 4
• 1 Communist support added to Warszawa, now at 2
The Democrat uses the Dash for the West event played by the 
Communist.
Roll a die. If the die roll exceeds the number of Communist controlled 
spaces in East Germany, +1 VP and select any Blue Event with as-
terisk (*) from the discard pile. The event occurs immediately.
• *The Dash for the West card is permanently removed.
• Communist controlled spaces in East Germany = 0. Dash for 
the West die roll = 2. Success! VPs up 1, now at 1. There are no 
playable Democratic* events in the discard pile.

Illustration shows the positon of Support Points 
after setup. Support Points highlighted in yellow 
indicate spaces that received one or more discre-
tionary Support Points.

Comment: The Communist decides to give the Democrat a free 
VP to get Dash for the West out of the deck. There is little downside 
because there are no Democratic* events in the discard pile. The Sup-
port Points placed gives him control of Bydgoszcz (an elite space) 
and adds another Support Point to Warszawa.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 1
The Democrat plays the following card as an Event:
Ops 1: Helsinki Final Act * (Democrat) (red)
+1 VP for every Support Check by the Communist Player in Student 
or Intellectual spaces the rest of the game.
The Helsinki Final Act card is a red event, an asterisk event and an 
underlined event which means the following:
• It permanently removed from the deck (*).
• It is kept to the side of the map as reminder of the VPs that can 
be gained by the Democrat player (the underline).
• Playtesting showed this event is really important so we made it 
red. That way the democrat can steal it with the Goodbye Lenin! 
event. All the other reds are pre-requisites.
Comment: the Democrat still has Domination of Poland so it is 
good time to play Helsinki for the event.
Turn 1, Communist action round 2
The Communist plays the following card to place support:
Ops 3: Honecker * (Communist)
• 1 Communist support added to Warszawa, now at 3
• 2 Communist support added to Gdansk, now at 2
Comment: Honecker would not be a very useful event at this point 
because there is no card in the discard pile to pick up. It is better to 
use the 3 Ops. Because the Honecker card is used for Ops it is placed 
in the discard pile. With control of Warszawa the Communist player 
now has a +1 modifier to Support Checks against Gdansk and has 
reduced the Democrat’s position from Domination to Presence.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 2
The Democrat plays the following card to place support:
Ops 3: Hungarian Democratic Forum* (Democrat)
• 2 Democrat support added to Krakow, now at 3
• 1 Democrat support added to Lodz, now at 1
Comment: This is a powerful event, but the Democrat decides he 
needs the Ops in Poland to regain Domination. He has placed SPs 
in the south, attempting to make a triangle of controlled spaces with 
the Church, Lodz and Krakow. He could have supported Gdansk 
by taking Szczecin instead.
Turn 1, Communist action round 3
#1 Ops 2: Legacy of Martial Law * (Communist)
Replace 1 Democratic SP in Poland with a Communist SP and make 
a Support Check in Poland using the Ops value of this card. 
• *The Legacy of Martial Law card is permanently removed.
• Democratic support in Poznan reduced by 1, now at 2
• Communist support in Poznan increased by 1, now at 1
• Support Check attempt in Gdansk (stability 3):
 Gdansk die roll = 3 (+2 ops, +2 mod) = 7. The modified roll ex-
ceeds the doubled stability by 1. Democratic support in Gdansk 
reduced by 1, now at 0.

Comment: This event is weak, but it works in this situation. By 
flipping an SP in Posnan, the Communist breaks the Democrat’s 
control of that space, giving him a +2 modifier for a Support 
Check against Gdansk. The modifier is enough to make the Sup-
port Check successful. The Communist removes 1 Democratic SP 
from Gdansk, and the space remains uncontrolled.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 3
Ops 3: Cult of Personality * (Communist)
Place 4 Communist SPs in Worker or Farmer spaces in Romania, no 
more than 2 per space. Has no effect after "The Tyrant is Gone."
• *The Cult of Personality card is permanently removed.
• 2 Communist support added to Brasov, now at 2
• 2 Communist support added to Ploesti, now at 2
The Democrats use the Cult of Personality card to place:
• 2 Democrat support added to Poznan, now at 4
• 1 Democrat support added to Lodz, now at 2
Comment: Romania is a Late Year Scoring Card, so the Democrat 
decides to take the pain and allow the Communist event to take place. 
The Democrat chooses to allow the Communist to use the event be-
fore the Democrat takes his action, but the order is not too important 
in this case because the Democrat is not focused on Romania yet. The 
Democrat retakes Posnan and adds another SP to Lodz. The Democrat 
still has Domination in Poland: 3 spaces and 2 battlegrounds versus 
2 spaces and 1 battleground for the Communist.
Turn 1, Communist action round 4
The Communist plays the following card for Ops:
Card: #63 Ops 2: Papal Visit * (Democrat)
Place 3 SPs in any Catholic Church space.
• They elect to have the Democratic event occur first.
•	 *The Papal Visit card is permanently removed.
• Democratic support in Czech Catholic Church increased by 3, 
now at 4
The Communists uses the Papal Visit card to place support:
• 1 Communist support added to Gdansk, now at 3
• 1 Communist support added to Debrecen, now at 4
Comment: The Communist plays the Democratic event for Ops, 
and lets the Democrat use the event first. The Democrat decides to 
use Papal Visit in Czechoslovakia instead of Hungary or Poland. 
The Communist takes control of Gdansk. He also places an SP in 
Debrecen to go to control + 1, anticipating to play Consumerism 
later in the Turn.

Turn 1, Democrat action round 4
Ops 2: Apparatchiks * (Communist)
Place 3 Communist SPs in any Bureaucratic space(s).
•	 *The Apparatchiks card is permanently removed.
• 3 Communist support added to Budapest, now at 3
The Democrats use the Apparatchiks card to place support:
• 1 Democrat support added to Lodz, now at 3
• 1 Democrat support added to Wroclaw, now at 2
Comment: The Democrat makes his own triangle in the South of 
Poland with Krakow, Lodz and the Church space. He also places 
in Wroclaw which will support Posnan when he gains control. The 
Communist decides to be aggressive and uses the event to place 
3 SPs in Budapest.
Turn 1, Communist action round 5
Ops 4: Gorbachev Charms the West
Remove 2 opponent SPs and make a support check using the Ops 
value of this card. May not be played as an Event after Breakaway 
Baltic Republics.
• Democratic support in Polish Catholic Church reduced by 1, now 
at 4
• Democratic support in Krakow reduced by 1, now at 2
• Support Check attempt in Lodz (stability 3):
 Lodz die roll = 3 (+4 ops, +1 mod) = 8. The modified roll exceeds 
the doubled stability by 2. Democratic support in Lodz reduced 
by 2, now at 1
Comment: The Communist uses Gorbachev to remove a Demo-
cratic SP from the Polish Church and from Krakow. That breaks 
the Democrat’s control of these two spaces. The Communist then 
targets Lodz for a Support Check and receives a +1 modifier for 
adjacency from Warszawa. Note that removing the SPs from the 
Church and Krakow changes the adjacency modifier from –1 to +1. 
This is enough to make the Support Check successful.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 5
Ops 3: Heal Our Bleeding Wound* (Communist)
If played in Early Year, –3 VPs. If played in Middle Year, –1 VP. If 
played in Late Year, +3 VPs
• *The Heal Our Bleeding Wound card is permanently removed.
• VPs down 3, now at –2.
The Democrats use the Heal Our Bleeding Wound card to place 
support:
• 1 Democrat support added to Polish Catholic Church, now at 5
• 1 Democrat support added to Krakow, now at 3
• 1 Democrat support added to Wroclaw, now at 3
Comment: the situation in Poland requires the Democrat to use 
this Communist event for Ops. Because this event weakens in the 

Middle Year and actually helps the Democrat in the Late Year, the 
Democrat would prefer to play it to the Tiananmen Square Track, 
but the Democrat needs 3 Ops to get back 3 Spaces in Poland. He 
has to give the Communist the –3 VPs.
Turn 1, Communist action round 6
The Communist plays the following card for Ops:
Ops 3: Consumerism (Democrat)
Remove a Communist SP from a Worker space and make one Sup-
port Check in a Worker space in the same country using the Ops 
value of this card.
• They elect to have the Democratic event occur first.
• Communist support in Miskolc reduced by 1, now at 2
• Support Check attempt in Debrecen (stability 3):
 Debrecen die roll = 6 (+3 ops) = 9. The modified roll exceeds the 
doubled stability by 3. Communist support in Debrecen reduced 
by 3, now at 1
The Communists use the Consumerism card to place support:
• 1 Communist support added to Budapest, now at 4
• 1 Communist support added to Miskolc, now at 3
• 1 Communist support added to Tatabayna, now at 1
Comment: The Democrat rolls a 6, and Consumerism has a big 
effect. Instead of replacing the SPs lost in Debrecen, the Communist 
builds in Budapesst and Miskolc, which support each other, and 
begins building in Tatabanya.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 6
The Democrat plays the following card as an Event:
Ops 2: Sajudis * (Democrat) (red)
+1 VP. Place sufficient Democratic support in any Minorities space 
for control. Allows play of "The Baltic Way."
• *The Sajudis card is permanently removed.
• VPs up one, now at –1
• Democratic support in Razgrad increased by 4, now at 4
Comment: playing Sajudis for the event earns a VP and puts The 
Baltic Way in play for the Middle Year. The Democrat chooses 
Razgrad instead of Harghita/Covasna because Bulgaria will score 
sooner than Romania.
Turn 1, Communist action round 7
#21: Poland Scoring
Comment: the Communist must play the Poland Scoring card—
scoring cards cannot be held. Each player is dealt the following 
Power Struggle cards:
• Communist: 6 (1st city) +4 (2 each additional city) = 10 cards
• Democrat: 6 (1st city) +6 (2 each additional city) = 12 cards
Comment: The Communist controls 3 spaces (Bydgoszcz, Warsza-
wa and Gdansk, so he draws 10 cards. He has 6 potential leader 
cards because he controls a worker space and the elite space. The 
Democrat controls 4 spaces (Wroclaw, Catholic Church, Krakow 
and Posnan) so he draws 12 cards, but he has only 3 potential leader 
cards, one for the church and 2 for the worker spaces.
Democrat Battle Hand
x2 Rally in the Square - auto CA
x3 March (3, 4, 5)
x1 Strike 4
x1 Petition 6
x2 Intellectual leader 3
x1 Elite leader 3
x1 Church leader 3
x1 Wild Card: Match any attack: suit may not be played again this 
Struggle
 
 
Comment: Three unusable leader cards, but the Tactic Fails wild 
card will help. He could Raise the Stakes by discarding three cards. 
He would choose the three unusable leaders. It would be a risky 
move considering the Communist would then have more Power 
Struggle cards and higher number of potential leaders.

Communist Battle Hand
x1 Rally in the Square - auto CA
x3 March 3
x3 Strike (3, 3, 6)
x1 Petition 6
x1 Intellectual leader 3
x1 Worker leader 3
 
x3 
 
Comment: Very weak initiative ranks and one unusable leader. A 
bit unlucky in drawing no elite leader cards.
The Democrat discards 3 Battle Cards to Raise the Stakes
• Card discarded: Intellectual leader 3
• Card discarded: Intellectual leader 3
• Card discarded: Elite leader 3
The winner of the Power Struggle will receive a +1 modifier to his 
VP and Support Removal die rolls
Comment: “Fortune favors the bold.” The Democrat raises the 
stakes!!
• The Communist attacks with a Petition 6
• The Democrat matches with a Petition 6
Comment: with only 1 Petition this was probably not going to 
do much, but it was a 6 and his hand is pretty weak for initiative 
values.
• Democrat counterattack die roll = 5 (needs a 6): counterattack 
Comment: The Democrat must roll equal to or higher than the 
rank of the card the Communist led to gain initiative.
• The Communist attacks with a Strike 6
• The Democrat matches with a Strike 4
Comment: The Communist chooses to attack with his Strike suit 
over his March suit. He has 3 of each, but he has a Strike 6 to start 
with.
• Democrat counterattack die roll = 1 (needs a 6): counterattack 
• The Communist attacks with a Strike 3.
• The Democrat matches with a Church leader 3.
Comment: The Communist is happy to see the Democrat is 
already out of strikes. He just needs to keep initiative and play 
another Strike.
• Democrat counterattack die roll = 2 (needs a 3): counterattack 
• The Communist attacks with a Strike 3.
• The Democrat matches with a Wild Card: Tactic Fails (Match 
any attack, suit may not be played again this Struggle). Strike 
cards may no longer be played this Power Struggle.
• No counterattack.
Comment: blocked! Well now the Communist has to go to a weak 
suit of Marches or his Rally. He chooses the Rally knowing that the 
Democrat is getting low on cards. Also the Democrat has already 
used a church leader card, and the Communist holds 1 of the 2 
worker leader cards in the deck.
• The Communist attacks with a Rally in the Square - auto CA
• The Democrat matches with a Rally in the Square - auto CA.
Comment: the Rally fails. Rally cards all have a rank of 1, so the 
Democrat finally has initiative.
• Counterattack is automatically successful
• The Democrat attacks with a March 5
• The Communist matches with a March 3
• Communist counterattack die roll = 1 (needs a 5): counterattack 
• The Democrat attacks with a March 4
• The Communist matches with a March 3
• Communist counterattack die roll = 4 (needs a 4): counterattack 
is successful!
• The Communist attacks with a March 3
• The Democrat matches with a March 3
• Democrat counterattack die roll = 3 (needs a 3): counterattack 
is successful!
Comment: both players held 3 Marches. They were weaker 
cards, and they trade initiative. With his March suit exhausted, 
the Democrat plays his final card, a Rally. The Communist gets a 
sinking feeling. If he doesn’t match the Rally the Democrat wins 
and would receive a +2 modifier for the Support Loss and Victory 
Point die rolls. Luckily, the Communist has the worker leader that 
he can use to match any suit. But there is a problem. If he does 
match he must roll for initiative, and against a Rally the initiative 
roll will automatically succeed. His last card is an Intellectual 
Leader, which he cannot play because he does not control the 
intellectuals space.

• The Democrat attacks with a Rally in the Square — auto CA
• The Communist matches with a Worker leader 3
• Counterattack is automatically successful!
• No playable cards in the Communist hand, so...
• The Democrat wins the Power Struggle in Poland!!!
Comment: so close. But the Democrat wins.
• Power Struggle Support Loss die roll = 2 + 1 (raised stakes) = 
3. One support to be removed. Communist support in Poznan 
reduced by 1, now at 0.
Comment: the Communist rolls a 2 for Support Loss, 
modified to 3 by Raise the Stakes. The result on the 
Power Struggle Results Table is 1. The Communist 
elects to remove the SP in Posnan. He could have 
removed an SP from any space.
• Power Struggle VP die roll = 4 + 1 (raised stakes) 
= 5. +2 VPs, plus Power VPs up 2, now at 1.
Comment: For Victory Points the Democrat rolls 
a 4, modified to 5 for Raised Stakes. The result on 
the Power Struggle Results Table is 2/P, so the VP 
marker is moved two spaces toward Democratic 
victory. More importantly, the P result means the 
Communist is toppled from Power, and the Scoring 
Card is removed from the game. “Jeszcze Polska 
nie zginęła!”
Scoring in Poland
• Communist: 3 (presence) +2 (battlegrounds) = 5
• Democrat: 6 (domination) +3 (battlegrounds) = 9
• VPs up 4, now at 5
• The Poland Scoring card is permanently re-
moved.
Comment: the Democrat gets 4 VPs from scoring 
the Country Domination +3 Battlegrounds spaces 
versus Presence +2 Battleground. This is a pretty 
good start because the Communist invested a fair 
amount into Poland.
Turn 1, Democrat action round 7
The Democrat plays the following card as an 
Event:
Ops 2: Eco-Glasnost* (Democrat)
Place 4 Democratic SPs in Ruse. +1 VPs for Com-
munist Support Checks in Ruse for the rest of the 
game.
•	 The Eco-Glasnost card is permanently removed.
• Democratic support in Ruse increased by 4, now 
at 4
Comment: The Democrat sets himself up well in Bulgaria. He has 
a strong start with two spaces that support each other; however he 
is falling behind in Hungary.
Comment Overall: the Communist has fought hard in both Early 
Year countries. He should be able to secure a strong position in 
Hungary, but he will have to shift his focus to the Middle Year 
countries soon. The Democrat was happy to win Poland after the 
Communist had made a strong push there. Neither player made a 
Tiananmen Square attempt.
Illustration shows the positions on the map after Turn 1.

GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
CREDITS
Game Design: Jason Matthews and Ted Torgerson
Game Development: Bruce Wigdor
Art Director, Cover Art and Package Design:
Rodger B. MacGowan
Map and Card Art: Donal Hegarty
Counter Art: Leland Myrick and Mark Simonitch
Rules Layout: Mark Simonitch
Lead Playtesting: Charles Robinson, Riku Riekkinen, Daniel 
Dunbring, Patrick Martin, Brendan Majev
Playtesters: "The Wargameroom Regulars" Dave Blizzard, 
Steven Bauer, Sean Djafovic, Roger Leroux, Judit Szepessey, 
Jeff Aaronson, Rui Serrabulho, Matt Davis, Michael See
Special Thanks to Patrick Martin for stat compilation and analy-
sis of playtest results.
Rules Editing: Hans Korting and Jonathan Squibb
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, Gene 
Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
Appendix A: Distribution of Power 
Struggle Deck
6 Rally in the Squares (all initiative value 1)
12 Marches (2 with initiative value 6, 2 with 5, 4 with 4, and 
4 with 3)
12 Strikes (2 with initiative value 6, 2 with 5, 4 with 4, and 4 
with 3)
6 Petitions (3 with initiative value 6, and 3 with 5)
12 Leaders (4 Intellectual, 4 Elite, 2 Worker, 1 Church, and 1 
Student, all initiative value 3)
4 Wild Cards (all surrender initiative)
Turn Sequence
1. Deal Strategy Cards
2. Play Action Rounds
3. Make Extra Support Check (if applicable)
4. Verify Held Cards
5. Celebrate New Year’s Eve Party (if applicable)
6. Advance Turn Marker
7. Calculate Final Scoring (after turn 10)
9.2 Country Scoring Terms
Presence: A player has Presence in a country if it controls at 
least one space in that country.
Domination: A player achieves Domination of a country if 
he controls more spaces in that country than his opponent and 
he controls more Battleground spaces in that country than his 
opponent. A player must control at least one non-Battleground 
and one Battleground space in a country in order to achieve 
Domination of that country.
Control: A player has Control of a country if he controls more 
spaces in that country than his opponent and he controls all of 
the Battleground spaces in that country.
6.2 SUPPORT CHECKS
PURPOSE: To reduce opponent Support in a country, and 
possibly to add friendly support if the Support check is suc-
cessful enough.
PROCEDURE: Each Strategy Card played for Support Checks 
gives two Support Checks to the Phasing Player, regardless of 
the card’s Operations value. The player must resolve the first 
Support Check before declaring the next target.
REQUIREMENT: To attempt a Support Check in a space, 
the space must have opponent SPs. 
RESOLUTION: Multiply the Stability Number of the target 
space by two (x2). Then roll a die, and add the Ops value of 
the card played to the die roll plus any DRMs as listed below. 
If the modified die roll is greater than the doubled Stability 
Number, the Support Check succeeds, and the phasing player 
removes opposing SPs equal to the difference from the target 
space. If there are insufficient opposing SPs to remove, add 
friendly SPs to make up the difference.
DIE ROLL MODIFIERS:
• +1 for each adjacent friendly controlled space
• –1 for each adjacent opponent controlled space