20 Questions GameTM Instructions 
 
Contents 
20 Questions® Game Cards (For 20 Questions- 378 cards, for 20 
Questions U.K.-315 cards, and for all other 20 Questions Games-150 
cards.) 
Question Mark Playing Pieces (4) 
Red 20 Questions® Chips (20) 
Blue "Free Guess" Chips (5) 
Game Board 
Instructions 
Set Up 
1. Place the playing pieces at START on the game board. 
2. Place the red and blue chips along the edge of the game board. 
3. Open the 20 Questions® card deck and place a stack of cards in the center of 
the game board. 
Object of the Game 
To correctly identify well-known people, places and things through a series of 
clues. The first player to reach FINISH wins the game. 
 
People: Entries in this category may be living or dead, male or female, real or 
fictional. Animals with personalities such as Rin-Tin-Tin, and cartoon characters 
like Bugs Bunny, are in the People Category. This category includes groups of 
people, such as The Beatles and The St. Louis Cardinals. Occupations, such as 
fireman and plumber, also appear in People. 
 
Places: Geographic locations such as seas, countries, rivers, and cities are in the 
Places category. Man-made and natural places are included in this category. 
 
Things: Objects that are not alive, items that do not belong in the other 
categories, and concepts (e.g., gravity and The Equator) are Things. This 
category also includes animals, holidays and literature. 
Rules of Play 
1. The youngest player goes first, by selecting a card and saying, "I am a ______ 
(Person, Place or Thing)" as shown at the top of the card. This player becomes 
that Person, Place or Thing for this round, and is known as the Reader. Readers 
should not show their cards to any other player. 

2. Each card has clues numbered 1 through 20-there is one Person, Place or 
Thing on each card. 
3. The player on the Reader's left announces a number between 1 and 20, then 
covers that number on the board with a red chip. 
4. The Reader reads the clue with the same number that the player on the 
Reader's left chose. 
5. After listening to the clue, the player has 10 seconds to guess the Reader's 
identity. Players may only guess on their own turn and must choose a clue before 
guessing. If the player guesses correctly, the player and the Reader determine 
their score (see Scoring, below), and move their playing pieces. The player on 
the Reader's right becomes the new Reader. If the player guesses incorrectly, 
play continues in a clockwise direction-the next player on the left chooses a 
number, covers it on the board with a red chip, listens to a clue, and guesses. 
Continue until a player correctly guesses the Reader's identity. There is no 
penalty for incorrect guesses. 
6. At any time, players may request that the Reader read all the clues already 
chosen. 
Scoring 
Each 20 Questions® card has a value of 20 points. All 20 points are 
divided between the Reader and the player who correctly guesses the Reader's 
identity. The Reader receives 1 point (moves ahead one space) for every number 
that is covered with a red chip. The Guesser receives 1 point 
for each unused red chip. 
EXAMPLE: If the Guesser correctly guesses the Reader's identity on the 3rd 
clue, the Guesser moves ahead 17 spaces, and the Reader moves ahead 3 
spaces. 
EXAMPLE: If the Guesser correctly guesses the Reader's identity after 16 clues, 
the Guesser moves ahead 4 spaces. The Reader moves ahead 16 spaces. 
Special Clues 
1. When the Reader reads "Take a One Free Guess Chip," the player guesses 
immediately, then takes a blue chip. Players with Free Guess chips play them 
before the start of another player's turn, then guess before the Reader reads 
another clue. Free Guessers who guess correctly move in the same way that 
other correct guessers move. Players who use a Free Guess chip before their 
own turn still play their upcoming turn. More than one Free Guess chip may be 
played on a turn. After playing a Free Guess chip, players return it to the board. 
2. "Lose your turn" means that play passes immediately to the next player-the 
current player may not guess. 
3. Players move their pieces after hearing "Go ahead" and "Go back" clues, then 
guess. No player may be moved back from Start. 
Bonus Round 

Any time that players end in a move on a Bonus Space they play a Bonus 
Round. To play a Bonus Round, the Reader chooses a card from the deck, and 
identifies it as a Person, Place or Thing. The Bonus Player announces 5 
numbers, one at a time, which the Reader reads as they are chosen. The Bonus 
Player may guess after hearing any of the 5 clues, but may only guess once 
during the Bonus Round. 
If the Bonus Player correctly guesses the Reader's identity after just one clue, the 
Bonus Player moves ahead 10 spaces. If the Bonus Player needs more clues, 
scoring is as follows: 
2 clues . . . . . . 8 spaces 4 clues . . . . . .4 spaces 
3 clues . . . . . . 6 spaces 5 clues . . . . . .2 spaces 
When players land on a Bonus Space during the middle of a turn, the Reader 
continues with the card in play until a player guesses correctly, then starts the 
Bonus Round. The Bonus Round ends if the Bonus Player chooses the "Lose 
your turn" clue. The Bonus Player moves on "Go ahead" and "Go back" clues, 
then the Bonus Round continues. The Readers do not move during 
Bonus Rounds. 
Winning the Game 
The first player to reach Finish wins the game. Players need not land exactly on 
Finish to win. 
 
Copyright ©1997 University Games