Just Spit
 it Out! 
Just Spit
 it Out!
™
TM
RULES
Object
Score the most points by giving three answers before 
the balls twist down to the bottom of the Timer!
Set Up
• Place the Card Box with the Cards on the table where 
 everyone can reach it, as well as the Timer.
• Determine how many rounds will be played: for larger 
 groups, play two or three rounds; for smaller groups, 
 play four or five rounds.
Play
• The person who owns the game is first in the Hot Seat, 
 and play will move to the right.
• The player to the left of the Hot Seat player draws a 
 Card and reads it aloud. All Cards begin with “Name 
 3…” followed by random categories. For example, the 
 Card may read, “Name 3 famous Michaels.”
• As soon as the Card is read, start the Timer by flipping 
 it. The player in the Hot Seat has 5 seconds to give
 3 answers. For example, you could answer, “Michael 
 Jordan, Michael Jackson, Michael Eisner.” If you say
 3 answers before all of the balls reach the bottom 
 of the timer, you get one point. To keep track of points, 
 keep the Card in front of you.
• See below for what to do about questionable answers.
• If the player in the Hot Seat is only able to name one 
 or two answers before 5 seconds are up, they get no 
 points and play moves to the right. The next player 
 then gets 5 seconds to try to answer the same 
 question. The tricky part is that the new player in
 the Hot Seat cannot use any answers that were 
 previously used for that Card. For example, if the 
 first player answers, “Michael Jordan and Michael 
 Jackson,” the next player must answer 3 different 
 Michaels such as, “Michael Eisner, Michael Keaton, 
 Michael Bolton.”
• Play continues around the circle until someone can 
 name 3 in 5 seconds and wins a point.
• If play gets back to the original player without anyone 
 naming 3 in 5 seconds, that player gets one point by 
 default.
• The person to the right of the original player then 
becomes the new player in the Hot Seat and gets to 
start with a different Card. The player to their left draws 
a Card and reads it aloud. And so the play continues.
Winning the Game
At the end of the established number of rounds, count 
up your points. Each Card in front of you is worth one 
point. The player with the most points is the winner! 
You’ve got bragging rights for being quick-witted—until 
the next time you play and someone else wins!
Timer Note
5 Seconds is up when the balls finish twisting and hit the 
bottom. The fun “zoop” sound effect is an added bonus 
and does not “time” anything.
In the Event of a Tie
If at the end of the decided number of rounds there is a 
tie between 2 or more players, there should be a 
tie-breaking round. Only the tied players play one more 
round and the person who scores the point becomes the 
winner. The player in the Hot Seat should be the oldest 
among the tied players.
Acceptable Answers
Not sure if Michael Eisner is really a famous Michael, or 
if George Michael counts as an answer because it’s a 
last name? The group, as a whole, decides if answers 
are acceptable. You may also look up any questionable 
answers online. 
Game Play Suggestions
For longer game play, play more rounds than suggested 
above. To add a fun twist, you may play as partners 
(2-person teams). Be careful not to shout answers over 
one another! 
For 3 or More Players
Ages 10 to Adult
Contents
576 Questions on
288 Cards, 5-Second
Twisted Timer
Copyright © 2010 Patch Products, Inc., Beloit, WI 53511 USA.
All rights reserved. 5 Second Rule and Just Spit it Out! are
trademarks of Patch Products, Inc.
5 Second
 Rule™
PROOF OF PURCHASE
OFFICIAL PROOF OF PURCHASE 
#7428
We want your comments about our games, puzzles and toys. Contact us at:
Customer Service
1400 E. Inman Pkwy. • Beloit, WI 53511
patch@patchproducts.com • 1-800-524-4263
For more fun, visit www.patchproducts.com