GOAL OF THE GAME
Your goal is to build a new State in this post-apocalyptic world. Whether you command merciless Mutants or brave New Yorkers, your 
aim is always simple and clear – conquer new lands, incorporate new regions, and destroy everyone who is of no value. How will you 
achieve this? It’s pretty simple.
Many cards in the game will let you gain Victory Points. Use them as often as you can because when any player reaches 25 Victory Points, 
they will trigger the End Game Sequence. You ﬁ nish the round, and then gain 1 Victory Point for each card you have in your State, and 
you add it to your score.
And now the most important thing - the highest score wins the game. Pretty novel, huh? 

200 CARDS (63X88)
4 VICTORY POINT MARKERS
1 VICTORY POINT BOARD
1 FIRST PLAYER TOKEN
4 FACTION BOARDS
88 51ST STATE BASE CARDS
12 CONNECTION CARDS
50 NEW ERA CARDS
50 WINTER CARDS
BAC
COMPONENTS OVERVIEW

GOODS MARKERS & TOKENS
MIN. 30 BRICK PIECES
MIN. 30 FUEL PIECES
13 BULLET TOKENS
20 RED CONTACT TOKENS
MIN. 30 GUN PIECES
MIN. 30 IRON PIECES
9 DEVELOPMENT TOKENS
10 SHIELD TOKENS
20 BLUE CONTACT TOKENS
7 UNIVERSAL CONTACT TOKENS
THIS RULEBOOK
4 MULTIPLIER TOKENS
30 GREY CONTACT TOKENS
MIN. 38 WORKER PIECES
0 BRICK
30 GUN
COMPONENTS OVERVIEW

GOODS ICONS
ANATOMY OF A CARD
SPOILS. You gain this stuﬀ 
when you Raze the Location.
CATEGORY 
(Production, Feature, 
or Action)
The TYPE(S) of the 
Location. These 
are important 
when Developing 
the Location into 
something new and 
hopefully better.
This is the DISTANCE 
to the Location. It tells 
you how far you have 
to move your ass to 
interact with the card.
DEAL. You gain this 
stuﬀ by making a Deal 
with the Location.
Ability of the card.
Try to guess what this is.
You can easily see if 
this card belongs to the 
base 51st State base set 
or an expansion. We’re 
helpful. 
We love you.
 FUEL, 
 IRON, 
 GUN,
 BRICK 
 AMMO is universally valuable and may be used 
 in place of any of the four basic Resources. When 
 paying for Actions, you may spend Ammo 
 instead of a Resource, but not the other way 
 around.
 WORKER.
 CARD.
 CONTACT tokens.
 UNIVERSAL CONTACT token. When needing a 
 Contact token, you can use an Universal one as 
 any of the three basic Contact tokens.
 DEVELOPMENT token.
 DEFENSE token.
 VICTORY POINT.
 
OTHER ICONS
 
 LOCATION.
 
 etc. LOCATION Type icons.
These are called Resources.
CARDS OVERVIEW

MANAGING YOUR LOCATIONS
As you can see from the picture here, you are going to be Building a lot of 
Locations! To make it easier for you to manage - and no, I am not telling you that 
you don’t look smart or something - we divided them into three Categories:
Production, Feature, and Action. Keep your Locations in diﬀ erent rows according 
to their Category and you will be just ﬁ ne. Put Production Locations in the top 
row, Features in the middle, and Actions in the bottom. Easy peasy.
Ah, one more thing!
For the dim-witted Mutant, when you make a Deal, ﬂ ip the card upside down 
when placing the card under your Faction board so you can read the word Deal.
MANAGING YOUR LOCATIONS

INTERACT WITH LOCATION CARDS IN 3 DIFFERENT WAYS
Each card in the game represents a Location from the world of Neuroshima. Your 
goal is to Build a new State by controlling a bigger and better region. You want to 
control it all! You do this by interacting with Locations.
You can Build a Location. Put the card in front of you and use the 
Ability in every round of the game. The more Locations you Build, the 
more Abilities you gain and your power will grow. Sounds good, right?
You can Raze a Location. Discard the card from your hand and 
get the Goods shown in the Spoils ﬁ eld. The Location is burnt to the 
ground, and you took their stuﬀ . Pity, huh?
You can make a Deal with a Location. Put the card under your Faction 
board so that only the blue Deal ﬁ eld shows. This Location is not part of your 
State and does not provide you with an Ability. Instead, The card provides you 
with the Good shown on the Deal ﬁ eld of the card. I don’t want to complain, but 
that’s exactly what happens when you try to be a nice scout and you don’t Raze 
people. You should Raze them. Raze them all!
USE CONTACT TOKENS TO INTERACT 
If you want to Build, Raze, or make a Deal with a Location you will need Contact 
tokens. They represent your means of interacting with the Locations. There are 
Blue tokens that represent your merchants and are used for making Deals. The 
Grey tokens represent your Building skills and are used to Build Locations. There 
are also Red Contact tokens - all your gangers, mutants, and mercenaries that you 
use to Raze Locations.
All kinds of cool tokens. Remember, Red is for Raaaaazing them all!
BURN THEM TO THE GROUND!
In the game, you will also be able to Raze the other player’s Locations. It’s 51st 
State bro, either you burn them, or they burn you. There is no middle ground.
Each Location has a Defense value. All Production Locations have a Defense 
value of 3, all Feature Locations have a Defense value of 4, and all Action 
Locations have a Defense value of 5. If you have a number of Red Contact tokens 
equal to the Defense value of another player’s Location that pisses you oﬀ , you 
can spend them to Raze this Location. We will talk about this again later, I’m just 
giving you a heads up, because it looks like you kinda like this whole Razing 
concept. Am I right?
FLOW OF A ROUND
Each round is divided into 4 Phases so people don’t get lost (no oﬀ ense).
1. Draft
2. Production
3. Action
4. Cleanup
1. LOOKOUT PHASE
• Reveal the top card of each Connection pile. Place it on top of the pile, or 
beside it, whatever works best for you.
• Draw a number of cards from the Deck equal to the number of players, 
plus 1 (e.g. 4 cards in a 3-player game) and place them face-up in the center 
of the playing area. Starting with the ﬁ rst player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player selects one card from those revealed and adds it to their hand. 
After everyone has chosen a card, discard the remaining card face-up to the 
discard pile.
• Again, draw a number of cards from the Deck equal to the number of 
players, plus 1 and place them face-up in the center of the playing area. 
This time, starting with the last player and proceeding counter-clockwise, 
everyone again chooses one card and adds it to their hand. Once again, 
discard the remaining card.
NOTE: There is no limit to the number of cards you may have in your hand.
2. PRODUCTION PHASE
Now it’s time to get some free stuﬀ ! I guess I’ve got your attention, huh? You now 
get Goods from three diﬀ erent sources. 
Faction board – your board shows your Faction’s basic Production. Mutants 
do Guns, Merchants do Fuel. It’s really pretty simple, it’s not rocket science.
Deals – each Deal you signed in a previous round now provides you with the 
Good depicted on the Deal. This is additional income, take it!
Production Locations – each Production Location produces Goods. Have an 
Oil Station? You’ll get Fuel. Simple as that.
If you like order, perform the Production Phase starting with the First player and 
continuing clockwise. If you value your time, do it simultaneously. It’s really easy, 
check your Faction board, check your Deals, check your Production Locations, 
gather your Goods and you are done!
BASIC GAME CONCEPTS

The Goods are collected in the following way:
Cards are drawn from the Deck and added to your hand.
Victory Points are marked by adjusting your score marker on the Victory 
Point track.
All other Goods are taken from the general supply and placed in your 
own supply.
FOR EXAMPLE: Angelina is playing the Mutant’s Union. She also has one 
SCHOOL, one PUB and two Deals in play. From her Faction, she gains 
. From her Deals, she gains 1
From her Locations, she gets 1
. So in total Angelina takes 
, 4
, 2
3. ACTION PHASE
Starting with the First Player, and continuing clockwise, each player performs one 
Action at a time. You can perform any of the following Actions. 
Available Actions: 
• Build a Location
• Make a Deal
• Raze a Location
• Use an Action from a card
• Use an Action from your Faction board
• Use another player’s Open Production Location
• Take or play a Connection card
• Pass
Once you pass in the Action Phase, you may not perform any other Actions in the 
current round.
Also, their Locations are immune from other players attempting to Raze them, or 
otherwise interact with them. For example, no one can Raze your Location or use 
your Open Production Locations with you when you pass.
There is no other limit to the number, type, or order of Actions that you can take 
during the entire Action Phase, as long as you take them one at a time and have 
any required Goods.
The Action Phase continues until all players have passed.
BUILD A LOCATION
There are two ways you can place a Location into your State.
CONSTRUCT: Choose a card from your hand and discard a number of 
 tokens 
equal to its Distance value. Put the card in front of you. Then, smile and say 
something nice to your opponents. 
New Location cards are placed next to your Faction board according to their Category:
• Production Locations are built in the top row, 
• Feature Locations are built in the middle row, 
• Action Locations are built in the bottom row. 
DEVELOP: Choose one card from your hand and one Location you already have 
in your State that shares a Type with it. Spend 1 Brick* and then remove this 
Location from your State and place it on the discard pile. Then, put the card from 
your hand in front of you in the appropriate row. As a reward you get 1 Victory 
Point. Voilà! You did it, you are awesome. You developed your old Location into 
something new and magniﬁ cent.
* Instead of 1 Brick you can discard 1 Development token 
. If you do this, the cards don’t 
need to share a common Type. Development tokens are cool.

NOTE 1: Most cards have 2 Types. You only need to match 1 Type to Develop a 
Location.
NOTE 2: The new card does not have to be the same Category as the one you are 
replacing and may therefore be placed into a diﬀ erent row.
NOTE 3: Ruins (see next page - Raze Location) are treated as if they have any Type. 
You Build over them with whatever Type you want.
REMEMBER: Each time you Develop a Location, you gain 1 Victory Point!
Production Locations immediately produce when built. You Build it, you get the 
stuﬀ . Take the appropriate Goods from the supply. Simple.
Some Locations have a Building Bonus.  This provides you with the Goods 
depicted when the Location is built. This is a one-time bonus only. You Build, 
you get it, and it’s done. Like a ﬁ rst kiss. You can’t have it every freaking Tuesday, 
right?
NOTE 1: If a Production Location also has a Building Bonus, you gain both beneﬁ ts 
when you Build it.
NOTE 2: If a card gives you a bonus for Building a certain type or Category of 
Location, it counts itself.  
FOR EXAMPLE: Scarlett has Ruins (a Razed Location) in her State (we will explain 
soon how this can happen, honestly). She wants to Build a SCHOOL and she 
decides to Develop the Ruins. She pays 1 
, discards the Ruins, and places the 
SCHOOL in the top row of her State. Because she is Developing, she gets 1
Contact tokens are not needed. She immediately takes 2
 from the supply: 1 as 
a Building Bonus and 1 from the SCHOOL Production.
I am tired. We are done with Building.
MAKE A DEAL
You can make a Deal with a Location from your hand by discarding 
 tokens 
equal to its Distance. Put the card under your Faction board so that only the blue 
Deal ﬁ eld is visible and immediately take the depicted Goods. You made a Deal, 
you get the Goods. I hope you are happy.
 
 
FOR EXAMPLE: if Charlize wants to make a Deal with the SCHOOL, she must 
discard 1
. She places the card under her Faction board so only the blue 
area with the
is visible. She immediately takes 1
Spend 1 
EXAMPLE OF DEVELOPING: The RUINED LIBRARY and the MURDERERS’ PUB 
share a matching Type. Therefore, you can spend 1
 to Develop the 
Location.

RAZE LOCATION
You can Raze Locations from your hand or you can Raze your opponent’s 
Locations. No pressure, but if I were you, I’d focus on razing your opponent’s... 
Either way, you get the Goods shown in the Spoils ﬁ eld.
RAZING FROM YOUR HAND - discard the card and a number of 
 tokens equal 
to the Distance on the card. Take the Goods shown in Spoils ﬁ eld.
RAZING YOUR OPPONENT’S LOCATIONS - discard 
 tokens equal to the 
Defense value of the Location you want to Raze (based on its Category). Take the 
Goods shown in the Spoils ﬁ eld. As compensation, the opponent whose card you 
Razed takes the Good depicted in the Deal ﬁ eld. Then, he turns the Location face-
down, it is now considered to be Ruins. Good job! You ruined their place. Now 
you can laugh at them.
NOTE 1: Once a player has passed, their Locations may not be Razed by the other 
players for the rest of that round.
NOTE 2: Any tokens on the Location that was Razed (from activations) are returned 
to the general supply. If there were tokens stored on the card, the owner gets to keep 
them. It’s not fair, huh? Why wouldn’t you get them?! Who wrote these damn rules?!
NOTE 3: 
 tokens increase the Defense of a Location by 1. Don’t forget this 
when you go Raze your opponents. You’ll have to spend 1 extra 
 token to Raze a 
Location with a  Shield on it. There can only be 1 
 on the Location.
FOR EXAMPLE: Salma has one SCHOOL in her State and Penelope wants to Raze 
it. The SCHOOL is a Production Location, and therefore has a Defense of 3. The 
SCHOOL also has a 
 token on it. To Raze it, Penelope discards 4 
 tokens and 
takes 2
from the supply. Salma takes 1 
 from supply, and turns the SCHOOL 
face down. It is now a Ruins.
USE AN ACTION FROM A LOCATION 
OR YOUR FACTION BOARD
Some Locations provide you with the ability to perform an Action. They give you 
Victory Points or Contact tokens or other weird stuﬀ the designer came up with. To 
use these Action, you must spend the Goods indicated and place them on the card. 
That way you won’t forget you already used the Location this round. Smart, huh?
Note: You can only use an Action on a card once per round unless the text says 
otherwise. If it can be used more than once, you can choose to activate it all at once 
or on diﬀ erent turns. If any decisions are involved in the Action you can choose 
diﬀ erently each time, even if you did them all at once.
Your Faction board also provides some Actions. This is stuﬀ you can do even if 
you don’t have any Locations. As with Actions on cards - you can only do this stuﬀ 
once per round unless the text says otherwise.
FOR EXAMPLE: The Faction Action. Discard 2
 to take one Resource of your 
choice or 1
, can be taken any number of times as noted on the Faction 
board. Thus, a player can discard 4
 to take 1
SEND A WORKER TO ANOTHER PLAYER’S 
OPEN PRODUCTION LOCATION
Your Workers can be sent to your opponent’s Locations to work as long as 
that Location has the Open Production keyword. Place your Worker on their 
card and take the Production Goods indicated. Then, your opponent gets 
 from the general supply.
Wait, what? Yes, we know that you could just give them your Worker but we didn’t write 
this rule just to confuse you; there is a good reason for it. Listen, you place the Worker 
on their card because each Open Production Location can only be used once each 
round. This way, you don’t forget if it was already used. Now it makes sense, huh?
FOR EXAMPLE: Megan has the Location GENERATORS. Eva wants to use it. She 
places one of her 
 on the Generators. She takes 2
Megan also takes 1
NOTE 1: You cannot send a Worker to use your own Open Production Locations.
NOTE 2: Once a player has passed, their Open Production Locations cannot be used 
for the rest of that round.
NOTE 3: An Open Production card is a Production card therefore it produces Goods 
during the Production Phase for its owner.
Defense value 
of Production Locations

TAKE OR PLAY A CONNECTION CARD
You can discard 2
to take one of the face-up Connection cards. If there aren’t 
any face-up, you can’t do this. And no taking from the discard pile either. Man, 
why would you even try?
Connection cards provide Goods when played. It takes an Action to play 
a Connection card – you just play the card from your hand, place it on the 
Connection discard pile and take the appropriate Goods. Simple as that. 
NOTE: If there is a cost to use this card you must discard the Goods when using 
it, not when taking it.  
OTHER OPTIONS
At any point during your turn, you can place 1
 on one of your Locations. 
Obviously, you have to have a 
 ﬁ rst. Placing a
 does not count as your Action 
and once placed, it cannot be moved. 
A
 on a Location increases the Defense of the Location by 1. If you forgot why 
this is important already, you can go back to the Raze a Location section and 
start over. You obviously have a memory problem. Also remember that Locations 
may only have maximum of 1
 at any time.
PASSING
If you can’t or don’t want to take any Actions on your turn, you pass. After you 
pass, you may not take any other Actions for the round. 
Once you pass, you are safe from the other players, they cannot interact with your 
Locations in any way. This includes Razing Locations, using Open Productions, 
targeting Locations with Actions etc. You are holed up in your little base like a 
bunch of chickens.
Yes, I am serious. You can’t be Razed.  You are out for the round. Your opponents 
must ﬁ nd themselves another target and stop whining.
Once everyone has passed, the Action Phase is over, and you proceed to the 
Cleanup Phase.
4. CLEANUP PHASE
During this Phase, if your Locations have any storage abilities you can use them 
to save the Goods described on the card. All other Goods are discarded back 
into the supply. This includes resources, workers, contact  tokens, and shields, 
everything. The only thing you can keep between rounds apart from Goods in 
storage are the cards in your hand.
Discard all face-up Connection cards that were not taken in the round and place 
them on the Connection discard pile. You missed your chance bub.
Pass the ﬁ rst player token to the left and start a new round.
FOR EXAMPLE: Megan, after using her Actions, still has 3
,1
 on her 
Faction board. Luckily she has the HIBERNATORS built in her State so there is no 
need to discard her 
. She discards the 
 and the 
. She also removes all the 
Goods from the Action Locations she used and the opponent’s Workers from her 
Open Production cards.

The game end is triggered when any player reaches 25 Victory Points. When this 
happens, ﬁ nish the current Action Phase but skip Cleanup. If a player reaches 25 
points during the Production Phase, proceed to the Action Phase as normal. After 
the Action Phase is completed, skip the Cleanup Phase and calculate the ﬁ nal 
score of each player.
Score 1
 for each Location in your State and add the total to your score.
The player with the highest score is the winner. Of course. 
In the case of a tie, the player with the most total Goods is the winner. If the tie 
persists, the player among those ties with the most Locations wins. If there is still 
a tie, all tied players share the victory. Now kiss. Isn’t that just adorable?
CLARIFICATIONS AND REMINDERS
Golden rule: If a speciﬁ c rule on a card or Faction board is in conﬂ ict with the 
rulebook, always follow the speciﬁ c rule and ignore the rulebook. For example, 
most Actions can be used once per round but the SHIPWRECK states that it can 
be used twice. The Action on the SHIPWRECK overrules the rulebook and is 
considered correct. You may use it twice.
When a Feature or Production Location provides Goods for Building speciﬁ c 
Types of Locations,  include that card as well, even if it was just built.
Resources are not intended to be limited. Enough pieces have been provided 
for most games. However, should you run out, use any suitable substitute or 
note them down on paper.
The number of cards, resources, tokens etc. in a player’s possession is open 
information available to all other players.
If you need to draw a card from the Deck and there none remaining, shuﬄ e 
the discard pile to create a new Deck.
Open Production Locations can be used once per round. Keep the 
opponent’s Workers on your Locations until the end of the round to track 
this.
You can only Raze Locations from your hand or Locations built in opponent’s 
States. You cannot Raze Locations built in your own State.
There is no limit to the number of Locations you may Build or Deals you may 
have.
You may have multiple Locations with the same name in your State.
There is no hand limit.
When stealing an opponent’s Production (e.g. SUPPLIERS), if that Location 
provides Goods according to the number of Locations of a certain type, 
END OF GAME
count the Locations of the Location’s owner.
GOAL
To have more victory points than the virtual player at the end of the game. The 
Virtual Player collects points by Razing your Locations, and Building his own 
Locations.
The game end is triggered when either you or the Virtual Player reaches 25 
END OF GAME
he ﬁ nal
re.
f the tie
here is still
?
ith the
xample,
at it can
nd is
g speciﬁ c
t.
n provided
bstitute or
 is open
g, shuﬄ e
o track 
pponent’s
you may
e.
ocation
type,
y p
p y
g
Virtual Player collects points by Razing your Locations, and Building his own
Locations.
The game end is triggered when either you or the Virtual Player reaches 25

points. Complete the Action Phase of that round, then add the number of 
Locations in each player’s State to their total score.
SETUP
Set up the game normally except that the Virtual Player does not need a Faction 
board. Put both point markers on the Victory Point track on the space marked “0”. 
Take the ﬁ rst player token for yourself. You deserve it.
The game is played according to the following rules:
LOOKOUT PHASE
1. Reveal the top card of each of the the Connection piles.
2. Draw the top four cards from the Deck, place them face up on the table.
3. Choose one of the four cards and add it to your hand.
4. Shuﬄ e the remaining three and draw a card at random, placing it face up in 
front of the Virtual Player.
5. From the remaining two cards, choose one and add it to your hand.
6. Put the last remaining card face up in front of the Virtual Player.
7. Draw one more card from the Deck and place it in front of the Virtual Player.
PRODUCTION PHASE
The Virtual Player doesn’t receive Goods during Production. You do, though… 
ACTION PHASE
You always play ﬁ rst during the Action Phase. You have the ﬁ rst player marker, right?
When you Raze a Virtual Player’s Location, it is discarded. They don’t keep the 
card as a Ruins.
• On the Virtual Player’s turn, they will claim a Connection card if there is one 
available. It costs them nothing and scores them 2 
. Discard the card. If 
there is more than one Connection card for the Virtual Player to choose from, 
choose one at random and return the other card back face up onto its pile.
• Once there are no Connection cards left to take in that round, the Virtual 
Player will proceed to attack you. Are you ready? This is going to hurt.
• The virtual player will stop attacking as soon as they successfully raze one of 
your Locations. Also the virtual player will try to attack a maximum of three 
times each round even if none of the attacks was successful. After that the 
virtual player will pass on the next turn. Isn’t that sweet??
• Also, once you pass, you cannot be attacked anymore, and the Virtual Player 
passes on his next Action.
• To execute the Virtual Player’s attack, reveal one card from the Deck and 
place it nearby to form an attack pile. Each attack by the Virtual Player in the 
round adds another card to this pile, and once it contains 3 cards, the Virtual 
Player will pass on their next Action. At that point, discard the cards in the 
attack pile to the discard pile.
• To carry out the attack on you, compare the Location Types on the revealed 
attack card with those in your State. If you do not have any matching 
Location Types, the attack is unsuccessful. You live to see another day.
• However, if you have a Location that matches at least one Location Type with 
the attack card, your Location is Razed. Give the Virtual Player two points 
and you receive the Goods shown in the blue Deal ﬁ eld as normal. Flip your 
Location face down to become a Ruins... just like normal.
• What if you have more than one card that matches the Location Type? It’s 
simple: The Location with the most matching Types is Razed.
What if there is still a tie? We give you tie breakers! Check them in this order:
1. The card with the greater Distance
2. Unused Actions
3. Used Actions
4. Features
5. Productions
6. Seriously? It’s still tied? Okay, ﬁ ne… check the Goods gained by Razing the Location. 
The priority is: 
y
 and 
. The card 
with the most Goods of the highest order is destroyed ﬁ rst. Keep checking 
this list until you break the tie.
7. Okay, if you make it here, take a picture and share it with us because we don’t 
believe you. If two Locations give exactly the same Goods when Razed, you 
can decide which is destroyed… or pick randomly. Chances are they are the 
same Location anyway… we really don’t care which one you lose.
• If a card with a 
 is about to be Razed, discard the 
 instead. You got lucky. 
The attack is still considered successful and the virtual player will pass on the 
next turn.
• Discard the card drawn for the attack. 
• You can interact normally with the Virtual Player before they pass with the 
following diﬀ erences:
• When you send a 
 to an Open Production Location, the Virtual Player 
gains 1
y
 instead of a 
• When the Virtual Player Razes your Locations, they don’t receive Goods. 
They got points, remember?
SOLO GAME RULES
SOLO GAMES RULES

SOLO GAMES RULES
ACHIEVEMENT TABLE
MUTANT
SURVIVOR
HUMAN
TRADER
SOLDIER
CYBORG
GRAND MASTER
30> 
30+ 
40+ 
50+ 
60+ 
70+ 
80+ 
GRAND MASTER
80+
EXAMPLE OF A VIRTUAL ATTACK
Monica plays a solo game against a virtual player. This is how a round would look.
She keeps one of them of her choice and then chooses randomly one of the 
remaining three cards and places it in the virtual player’s playing area. She then 
chooses one more card for herself and gives the last one to the Virtual Player. 
Finally, she draws one more card and places it in front of the Virtual Player.
Monica executes her production phase normally but the Virtual Player does not 
receive any goods.
Monica: As her ﬁ rst action Monica sends 2
 and claims one connection card.
Virtual Player: Claims the last connection card.
Monica: Builds a production location and gets the goods that it provides.
Virtual Player: It’s time for the virtual player to attack! Monica draws one card 
from the deck and places it nearby. She checks the types of the locations but 
none of them matches any of her locations. She was lucky.
Monica: Activates one action from her faction board.
Virtual Player attacks again. This time Monica draws one more card from the 
deck and places it over the previous one. She is not that lucky this time and one 
of her locations is razed. She ﬂ ips it to make it Ruins. The Virtual Player scores two 
points.
Monica: She sends one worker to one open production location of the virtual 
player. The virtual player does not take a 
 but scores 1
 instead.
Virtual Player: The virtual player had one successful attack so it’s time to pass.
Monica: Monica can now takes any number of consecutive actions. But she can’t 
interact with the virtual player any more.
Monica executes the Cleanup phase normally but keeps the ﬁ rst player token 
because she is awesome.
CLEANUP PHASE
Execute the Cleanup Phase as normal but you keep the ﬁ rst player token. It’s your 
special little power.
GAME END
The game ends when either you or the Virtual Player reaches 25 Victory Points 
on the victory point track. When that happens, complete the Action Phase 
normally and then add 1 
 to your score for each Location in your State. Do the 
same for the Virtual Player. Duh.
If you have the same or fewer points you lose. Try again mate. Go ahead, I’ll wait.
If you have more points than the Virtual Player you win! Be honest, you cheated 
didn’t you?
If you win, you can compare your score to the following table to see the level of 
your awesomeness.

CARDS IN DETAIL
BODY HUNTERS
Action cards from which you 
removed Goods and Workers 
may be used again this 
round.
RADIOACTIVE COLONY
This card has no Type. 
You can Develop it with 
a card of any Type and 
you can Develop any 
card into Radioactive 
Colony.
HIDDEN FORGE
This card is treated as having 
a
token on it.
FOUNDATION
This card has no Type. 
You can Develop it with 
a card of any Type and you 
can Develop any card into 
Foundation.
GAME DESIGN: Ignacy Trzewiczek
SINGLE PLAYER RULES: based on Imperial Settlers single player rules
ARTWORK: Piotr Foksowicz, Grzegorz Bobrowski, Agnieszka Osipa, Mariusz Gandzel, Michał Oracz, Ербол Булентаев Eksrey, Mateusz Bielski, 
Daniel Grzeszkiewicz, Tomasz Jędruszek, Tomasz Górnicki
GRAPHIC DESIGN: Maciej Mutwil
BOX DESIGN: Rafał Szyma, Maciej Mutwil
GAME MANUAL: Yiannis Strigkos, Chevee Dodd, Ignacy Trzewiczek 
GAME MANUAL EDITS AND HELP: Grzegorz, Matt, Merry, Marek, Chevee, Roman, Paul, Tony, Matt, Gunter, Kirdy, Anthony
Dead Customer, our games are assembled with great care. However, if your copy lacks anyting we apologize for it. Please, let us know:
wsparcie@portalgames.pl
51st State Master Set & Portal Games Sp. Z O.O. (publisher). All rights reserved, Reproduction of any part of this work by any means without the 
written permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden.
THANKS: Asia, Yiannis, Cierń, Merry and Senior.
RULEBOOK v1.0
© 2016 PORTAL GAMES Sp. Z O.O.
ul. Św. Urbana 15, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland
portalgames.pl, portal@portalgames.pl
SUPPLIERS
When you Build this card 
its Production can not be 
activated because other 
player’s Production cards 
don’t produce anything at 
that moment. You activate 
only the Building Bonus.