6nimmt!
6nimmt!
A game by Wolfgang Kramer with art by Barbara Spelger
Components
Components
	
The Aim of the Game
The Aim of the Game
So many countries, so many cows! Have you ever heard of the Scottish 
Galloway? What about the North American bison? Have you ever seen an 
Indian water buffalo? In a game of 6 nimmt! Junior, you get to travel the 
world and take pictures of all these cows and more! On your turn, play a cow 
card in a row. If the row now has all six different kinds of cows, you win all 
its cards. The player with the most cards wins the game!
•	 Place the four row cards in the middle of the table in a column. 
They are the start of each row.
•	 Shuffle the cow cards and put them next to the row cards in a face-
down deck.
The player who last took a picture of a cow goes first. Take turns going 
clockwise (to the left). On your turn, reveal the top card of the deck. Then, 
play that card in the row of your choice following these rules:
Rule 1: The card must add at least one new cow to your chosen row — 
that is, a cow that wasn’t in that row before you played the card.
Rule 2: If all of the cows on your card are already in all four rows, pick 
any row to play your card in.
Example: Ole could play his Scottish 
cow in the first, third, or fourth row. 
There’s already a Scottish cow In the 
second row, so he can’t play it there. 
Ole picks the first row.
Africa
Zebu
Germany
Holstein-
Friesian
India
Water Buffalo
Japan
Wagyu
North America
Bison
Scotland
Galloway
Players: 2–5 Personen	
Ages: 5 and up	
Playing Time: about 20 minutes
amigo-spiele.de/09950
52 cow cards 
with 
6 different 
cows
4 row cards

© AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, D-63128 Dietzenbach, MMIX, MMX, MMXX	
Version 2.0
You have purchased a quality product.
Should you have any reason for complaint, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Do you have any questions? We will be glad to be of help:
AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, Waldstraße 23-D5, D-63128 Dietzenbach
www.amigo-spiele.de, E-Mail: hotline@amigo-spiele.de
Taking a Row
Taking a Row
If a row now has all six different kinds 
of cows, it is a “complete row.” If the 
card you played completes a row, take 
all the cow cards from that row and 
put them in front of you, face down. 
This is your “photo album.” The player 
who has the most cards in their photo 
album at the end of the game wins!
Players can add new cow cards to the 
row you emptied.
The game ends when the last card of the deck is revealed and played in a 
row. The player with the most cow cards in their photo album wins! If two 
or more of you have the same number of cow cards, they all win.
Variants
Variants
For Advanced Players (6 years and up)
For Advanced Players (6 years and up)
The base game rules still apply, with the following changes:
Deal three cow cards to each player from the shuffled cow cards before 
creating the deck.
Instead of revealing a card from the deck, play any one of the three cards in 
your hand and place it in a row following the two rules above. Then, draw 
a new card from the deck and add it to your hand, so you have three cards 
again. When the deck has been used up, skip this step.
When the last card of the deck has been drawn and everyone has played all 
of their cards, the game is over. The player with the most cow cards in their 
photo album wins. 
Note: You can also play this game a bit more competitively by having the 
player with the fewest cow cards win. This takes you one step closer to the 
classic game 6 nimmt!.
For Pro Players (7 years and up)
For Pro Players (7 years and up)
This variant changes the base game significantly. 
Place the four row cards in the middle of the table in a column.
Shuffle the cow cards. Place one next to each of the row cards at random, 
face up.
Deal three cow cards to each player and put the rest in a face-down deck.
Take turns going clockwise. On your turn, play any one card from your hand 
in the row of your choice, face-up. The right-most card of the row you choose 
must have at least one cow that’s also on your card. In other words: the same 
cow must be on both cards.
At the end of your turn, draw 
one card from the deck and 
add it to your hand. When the 
deck has been used up, skip 
this step.
No Matching Card?
If you can’t play your card in 
any of the rows correctly, pick a 
row, take all of the cards from 
that row and place them in 
front of you, face down. Then 
play your cow card in the newly 
empty row.
The Sixth Cow Card in a 
Row
If you play the sixth cow card 
in a row, you must take all 
of the cow cards from this 
row except the one you just 
played and place them in front of you, face down. Leave your card in the 
newly empty row.
When the last card of the deck has been drawn and everyone has played all 
of their cards, the game is over. The player with the fewest cow cards wins 
the game! If two or more of you have the same lowest number of cards, they 
all win.
Example: Bruno plays his cow card 
in the second row, which completes 
it. He collects all the cow cards from 
this row and puts them in his photo 
album.
Example: Swantje can only 
play her Japanese cow in 
the third row, as it’s the 
only row where the right-
most card shows another 
Japanese cow.