COLORBLIND FRIENDLY SYMBOLS
To accommodate every type of colorblindness, 
each card color in the game uses a different symbol.
  END OF THE GAME  
Once one player has finished constructing their Wonder, the game is over at the end of that player’s turn.
Calculate your score by adding up any  
  Victory points shown on your:
•	Constructed Stages of your Wonder,
•	Cat pawn, if you have it,
•	Blue cards,
•	Military Victory tokens,
•	Progress tokens.
The player with the highest score wins the game.
In case of a tie, the player who constructed the most Stages wins.
If there’s still a tie, both players share the victory.
CREDITS
Designer: Antoine Bauza 
Illustrator: Etienne Hebinger 
Publisher: Repos Production team 
Full credits: rprod.com/en/7-wonders-architects/credits
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2021. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Repos Production SRL • Rue des Comédiens, 22 • 1000 Brussels – Belgium
+32 471 95 41 32 • www.rprod.com
The contents of this game may only be used for purposes of private entertainment.
PRODUCTION
REPOS
OVERVIEW AND GOAL OF THE GAME
The game 7 Wonders Architects plays over several turns. On your turn, choose one of three cards. These cards represent different char-
acters who will help you gather resources to construct your Wonder, make scientific discoveries, or even Battle with your neighbors.
The game ends when a Wonder is entirely constructed. Achieve the highest score to win the game!
  Grey
  Blue
 
  Yellow
  Red
CONTENTS
235 cards (8 different card backs)
7 Wonders with 5 pieces
7 card holders
8 component trays
15 Progress tokens
6 Conflict tokens
28 Military Victory tokens
1 Cat pawn and its stand
This rulebook
You have but one goal: 
construct a Wonder so grandiose 
it will leave your mark on history.
Your legacy is on the line!
2 PLAYER GAME
For 2-player games, the only change happens during the Resolving a Battle phase.
If you have more Shields than your opponent, take 1 Military Victory token.
However, if you have at least twice as many Shields than your opponent, take 2 Military Victory tokens instead of just one.
  Green
Take the top card from any deck anywhere 
on the table and place it in front of you.
Alexandria
Take the top card from the central deck and place 
it in front of you.
Ephesus
Take the top card from the decks to your left 
and your right and place them in front of you.
Olympia
Add 1 Shield to your total Shields.
Rhodes
Take the top 5 cards from the deck to your left 
or your right. Choose 1 and place it in front of you. 
Shuffle the other cards back into their deck.
Halicarnassus
Choose 1 Progress token from the 4 available 
Babylon
This Wonder has no special effect, but provides 
more Victory points than the other Wonders.
Giza
EFFECTS OF WONDERS
Urbanism: When you take a  
  or  
  Grey card, 
choose 1 extra card from the 3 available and place it 
in front of you.
Crafts: When you take a  
  or     Grey card, choose 
1 extra card from the 3 available and place it in front 
of you.
Jewellery: When you take a  
  Grey card or a Yellow 
card, choose 1 extra card from the 3 available and place it 
in front of you.
Science: When you take a Green card, choose 1 extra 
card from the 3 available and place it in front of you.
Propaganda: When you take a Red card with 1 or 2   
  icons, choose 1 extra card from the 3 available 
Architecture: When you construct a Stage of your 
Wonder, choose 1 extra card from the 3 available 
Economy: 1 of your Yellow cards is worth 2 Coins 
instead of just one.
Engineering: When you construct a Stage of your 
Wonder, you can use any Resources, without adhering 
to the “identical” or “different” restrictions.
Tactics: Add 2 Shields to your total Shields.
Decor: At the end of the game, gain 4 Victory points 
if your Wonder is still under construction or 6 Victory 
points if it is entirely constructed.
Politics: At the end of the game, gain 1 Victory point 
per
icon on your Blue cards.
Strategy: At the end of the game, gain 1 Victory point 
per Military Victory token you have.
Education: At the end of the game, gain 2 Victory points 
per Progress token you have (including this one).
Culture: There are 2 copies of this token. 
At the end of the game, gain 4 Victory points 
if you have 1 token or 12 Victory points 
if you have both.
EFFECTS OF PROGRESS TOKENS
Watch 
the rules video!

SETUP
TURN OVERVIEW
Setup example for 3 players
Yellow cards provide Coins that act 
as a wild Resource.
These Coins must replace any missing 
Resource needed to construct a Stage 
of your Wonder.
  YELLOW CARDS  
Red cards provide Shields that increase your military strength. 
Additionally, 1 or 2 
 icons are shown on certain Red cards.
When you take a Red card with 1 or 2 
 icons, flip over 1 
or 2 Conflict tokens respectively to their Battle side.
Make a horn sound when you take this action!
When you flip the last Conflict token to its Battle side, 
you trigger a Battle, at the end of your turn, for all players.
Note: If you must flip over multiple Conflict tokens, but there is 
only one left on its Peace side, only flip over this one token 
and ignore any extra 
 icons.
  RED CARDS  
B
T
Green cards provide Science symbols that let you gain 
Progress tokens.
If you have 2 identical or 3 different Science symbols, 
you must take a Progress token during your turn.
  GREEN CARDS  
Grey cards provide Resources that will let you construct 
the Stages of your Wonder.
If you have the Resources needed to construct a Stage 
of your Wonder, you must construct it during your turn.
  GREY CARDS  
For each player
Choose a tray (or take one randomly), then remove the 5 pieces of your Wonder and the holder containing 
your cards.
Each Wonder is made of 5 Stages of construction with an Under Construction side and a Constructed side. 
Assemble your Wonder with the Under Construction faceup, referring to the diagram on your tray.
Shuffle your cards and put them faceup in your holder to make a deck between the player to your left and yourself.
For all players, in the middle of the table
Shuffle the common cards and make a central deck, facedown.
Leave a space for the discard next to the central deck: you’ll place all used cards here, faceup.
Shuffle the Progress tokens and make a stack, facedown. 
Take the top 3 tokens and put them faceup next to the stack.
Consult the table below and place the corresponding number of Conflict tokens, Peace side up. 
Remove the remaining Conflict tokens from the game.
Make a reserve of Military Victory tokens.
Finally, place the Cat pawn.
Number of players
Number of Conflict tokens
2 - 3
6 - 7
Peace side
Battle side
Using the Cat pawn
As long as you have the Cat pawn, 
at the beginning of your turn, 
you can secretly look at the top 
card of the central deck before 
choosing your card.
Taking a Progress token
Discard any Green cards used, then choose a Progress token 
from the 4 available: 
•	Any one of the three faceup tokens,
•	Or the top token of the facedown stack.
Once a faceup Progress token is taken, immediately replace it 
with the top token of the stack, placing it faceup.
Put the chosen Progress token faceup in front of you. 
You immediately benefit from its effect, now until the end 
of the game (see page 6).
Using Progress tokens
During your turn, you can use your Progress tokens in any 
order and whenever you want.
Each of your Progress tokens can only be used once per turn, 
except for those that provide Victory points, which will only 
be used at the end of the game.
Constructed 
Stages
Available 
Stages
Unavailable 
Stage
Constructing a Stage
The construction cost of each Stage is shown 
on each piece:
2 different Resources.
2 identical Resources.
3 different Resources.
3 identical Resources.
4 different Resources.
Each Wonder is constructed Stage by Stage 
and always from bottom to top.
A Stage is available to construct only when all Stages 
below it are constructed. 
Certain Wonders will give you an option 
for the order of construction.
When you have the Resources needed (Grey 
and/or Yellow cards) to construct an available 
Stage, discard them, and then flip the Stage 
over to its Constructed side.
Once constructed, certain Stages will let you 
immediately benefit from special effects 
(see page 6 or each Wonder tray).
Note: If you have the Resources to construct multiple 
Stages in one turn, you must do so.
Resolving a Battle
Each player counts the number of Shields on their Red cards 
and compares it with their 2 neighbors (the players seated 
to their left and right).
Note: The Rhodes Wonder and the Tactics Progress token can 
provide additional Shields (see page 6).
For each neighbor, if you have more Shields than them, 
take 1 Military Victory token. You can therefore gain either 
0, 1, or 2 Military Victory tokens per Battle.
Then, all players discard their Red cards with 1 or 2 
 icons. 
Only Red cards without a 
 icon should remain in front of you. 
Finally, flip over all of the Conflict tokens to their Peace side.
Going clockwise and starting with the youngest player, 
the game plays over several turns.
On your turn, choose a card from the 3 available:
•	The top card of the deck directly to your left,
•	The top card of the deck directly to your right,
•	The top card of the central deck.
Place your chosen card in front of you, near your Wonder.
Depending on the cards and tokens you have, take the different actions 
explained below, in any order.
When you cannot take any more actions, your turn is over and the player 
to your left can begin their turn. 
Notes: 
• If a deck is empty, it remains empty until the end of the game.
• Stack your cards of the same color so that their banners are visible 
(see example on page 5). 
Blue cards provide Victory points. 
Additionally, a
icon is shown 
on certain Blue cards.
As soon as you take a Blue card 
with a
icon, take the Cat pawn 
from wherever it is on the table 
  BLUE CARDS