Contents
Page
Contents and Object of the game
2-3
Game Materials
Set-Up
Course of the game: Overview
Course of the game: Details
4-6
The Character Cards:
1. The Messenger
4-5
2. The Trader
3. The Bricklayer
4. The Stonemason
5. The Worker
6. The Masterbuilder
Erecting Buildings
Using Helpers
6-7
List of Buildings for the Final Scoring
7-8
The Castle in Winter
The Function of the Winter Cards
Game Summary
A Castle for all Seasons
A tactical game for 2 – 4 dedicated builders, 10
years and up, by Inka and Markus Brand.
Length: about 45 – 60 minutes
Amidst craggy mountains, the first silhouettes
of a monumental castle arise. A line of traders
twists its way to the gate; and the hustle and bustle
attracts bricklayers, stonemasons and workers in
the hope of getting wages and
victuals. The area is crammed with market booths;
the magnificent castle is being
enlarged around them.
Contents and Object
of the Game
You are builders who always need sufficient
resources and money. To this end, you have
character cards at your disposal whose way
of use determines the order of play anew each round.
You constantly have to be careful that your opponents
don't benefit from your actions more than you do.
This game holds the builders in its spell from
beginning to end and culminates in an exciting final
scoring every time. The player who has
the most victory points in the end deserves the
protection of the castle and wins the game.
Game Materials
gameboard
summary cards
23 building tiles
28 helpers (7 each in the players' colors:
blue, red, yellow and green)
victory markers in the players' colors
summer side
winter side
summer side
frontside
backside
winter side
example: building tile for the tavern

83 resource pieces:
20 sand piles (yellow)
18 wooden beams (dark brown)
15 clay slabs (reddish brown)
15 stone blocks (gray)
15 silver bars (silver)
card sets of 8 character cards each
winter cards
starting player marker
65 game coins (taler):
51 x 1 taler (copper-colored)
8 x 3 talers (turquoise)
6 x 5 talers (gold-colored)
Set-Up
1)
Place the gameboard in the middle of the table
so that the summer side is showing. For the
winter variant, use the winter side of the
gameboard, the rules of the summer game and the
winter cards (S. 8)).
In the two- and four-player game, put one taler
on each of the first 12 spaces designating rounds.
In the three-player game, put one taler on each
of the 15 round spaces.
Put one sand pile, wooden beam, stone block,
silver bar, and clay slab on the defense tower.
The "Defense Tower" in this game refers to the
tower currently being built above the carts.
Place all the building tiles on the gameboard over
their matching pictures on the board.
2)
Each player chooses a color and takes:
• A victory point marker that he puts on the
starting space of the victory point bar.
• 6 helpers of his color. In the two-player game,
both players get 7 helpers each.
• A card set in the player’s color
(see card backs). Each card set consists
of 8 character cards: one each of a
messenger, trader, bricklayer, and stonemason;
3 workers and 1 master builder.
• A summary card.
• 3 talers, 1 sand pile and 1 wooden beam,
which he puts in his play area (the space in
front of him on the table).
3)
The remaining resources form the
general stock. Distribute them, sorted,
onto the 4 carts and the rider at the
bottom of the gameboard. Each cart
transports the kind that
is depicted next to it. The rider carries
silver bars in his saddlebags.
4)
Put the remaining talers as general stock
(the "bank") face up next to
the gameboard.
Course of the Game: Overview
The game plays for 12 or 15 rounds. Each
round consists of the following phases:
The starting player takes the starting
player marker and the taler from the
highest round space on the gameboard.
The players choose the starting player
for the first round using any method they
prefer.
Each player selects one of his character
cards and lays it face down in his play
area.
All players flip over their played
cards at the same time.
When a player turns over a worker card,
he equips it with resources.
5.
The players execute the cards in
a fixed card order. The card order
is shown on the summary cards.
When the last card is executed, the next
round starts by changing the starting
player.
After the last round, the game ends with the
final scoring (victory points for the helpers).
As a guide, the course of a round is
also outlined in abbreviated form on
the back page of these instructions.
helper´s
place
victory
symbol
20x
18x
marker for
buildings tile
resource of
your choice
defense tower
victory point bar
1 rider
4 carts
round spaces

Course of the Game: Details
1)
Selecting character cards:
Every round, each player plays one card from
his hand face down in his play area. In a two-
player game, each player plays two cards each
round. The summary cards show the functions
and advantages of each character card. The
back of these rules provide an additional
overview: here it shows directly which cards
give what resources, talers, or immediate
victory points.
NOTE:
• A player may not play the master builder in
the first round! (see "Master Builder" page 6)
• Sometimes the bank has more, sometimes
less, and sometimes no talers at all. This can
be the decisive factor for using the messenger
or bricklayer – because if there is little or nothing
in the bank, the players also get little or nothing!
2)
Equipping worker cards:
When a player has played a worker, he takes
the 3 resource pieces depicted on the card from
the general stock (carts and riders) and places
them on the card. The presence of helpers
there is irrelevant.
There are 3 different worker cards:
• one worker gets 2 wooden beams
and 1 silver bar;
• another one gets 2 sand piles
and 1 clay slab;
• a third one gets 1 stone block
and any 2 pieces: sand piles, clay slabs
and/or wooden beams.
3)
Executing character cards:
Now players execute the played cards in the
order indicated below. The detailed description
of each character card and the sections
"Erecting Buildings" and "Using Helpers" begin
on page 6. The order is:
Messenger
Trader
Bricklayer
Stonemason
5.
Worker
6.
Master Builder
4)
The function of the starting player:
If more than one player has played
the same card, the order of execution starts
with the starting player and moves clockwise
around the table.
BUT: the order from the messenger to the
master builder as mentioned above always
has priority and always remains unchanged!
5)
Playing and getting back character cards:
Every played card remains lying face up the
player’s play area until the player plays the
master builder. It is best to lay out the played
cards in an overlapping
fashion so that
everybody can see
which cards have
already been played.
With the master builder (page 6), the player
takes all cards he has played back into his
hand.
6)
Changing the starting player:
As soon as the last card in a round has been
executed, the starting player passes the starting
player marker clockwise to the next player, who
also gets the taler from the next (highest) round
space.
Players take talers from the round space bar on
the gameboard from right to left so that they
can see at any time how many rounds are still
left. Since the players may have a different
number of cards in their hands during the
game, the round spaces make it clear how
many rounds are left.
7)
The last round:
The game ends after 12 rounds (for 2 or
4 players) or after 15 rounds (for 3 players).
In rare cases, it may occur that a player erects
the last building in a game before
12 or 15 rounds have been completed. In this
case, the current round is the last round.
8)
Final scoring:
First, players remove all helpers from the
carts; these helpers don’t score any victory
points.
The remaining helpers on the board are scored
in order according to the list of buildings (page
7). To keep things clear, it is better to lay down
each helper after scoring him, but to leave him
in place!
9)
The winner:
The player to earn the most points
on the victory point bar after the final
scoring wins the game.
When a player reaches the end of the victory
point bar (90 points) and gets more victory
points, he starts again at space 1 of
and adds 90 to his score.
In case of a tie, the player who has the most
talers among those tied for first wins. Talers
that were turned into victory points do not count.
If there is still a tie, the player who has the
highest value of unused resources in
his personal stock wins among the tying
players. Resources that were turned into victory
points do not count.
The Character Cards
messenger takes 8 talers
from the bank.
The player who plays the trader gets
resources for himself and other
players by placing one of his helpers
next to one of the four carts or next
to the rider.
• Only after each cart has gotten a
helper can the rider also get a
helper.
Only one helper is allowed per cart or beside
the rider. Each of these "trader’s helpers"
remains on the gameboard and "occupies" the
respective kind of resource until he is displaced
by another trader’s helper (…or until the player
needs his helper for a building).
A player may only displace an opponent’s helper
(including the courier’s helper):
- if this helper was not placed in the same
round AND
- if all carts are occupied.
2. The Trader
1. The Messenger

For example, if the stone, clay, wood, and sand
carts are occupied, a player may decide whether
to displace an opponent’s helper from one of these
carts, or to place his helper next to the silver
courier (rider).
The original owner gets the displaced helper back
into his personal stock.
After all trader cards have been executed in a
round, every owner of a trader’s helper gets
resources. Each of these players gets as
many pieces of each kind where he has a
helper as shown by the printed symbols. Thus,
the carts and the silver courier earn the
players resources a maximum of once per
round.
When a player earns resources with his
trader’s helper, he must immediately put one
piece of each kind he gets on the defense
(The entire image of the
defense tower can be used,
including the walls.)
If there are not enough resources left, the
tribute to the tower comes first. The remainder
goes to the respective players.
bricklayer takes resources from the
defense tower, may erect buildings,
place helpers.
The player takes all resource pieces of one
kind of from the defense tower.
Next, the player may erect up to 2 buildings
(page 6) if he has the resources to pay for
them. The bricklayer earns the player one taler
from the bank for each resource piece used.
If the player erects at least one building, he
may place up to 2 helpers on the board (page
6) and earn victory points for them in the final
scoring.
stonemason may buy resources
from workers, erect buildings
and, place helpers.
With the stonemason, a player can buy one piece
of resource from the card of any player who plays
a worker in that round. Each piece costs one taler.
If there is more than one stonemason in a round,
each of them may, one after another, purchase
one piece of resource from the played worker
cards.
IN PRINCIPLE, THE FOLLOWING APPLY:
The stonemason never buys from a player’s
personal stock, but only those resources that
are on the worker cards played that round.
The worker may not refuse the sale unless it is
his last piece.
The resources purchased from the cards are
not refilled.
In the two-player game, a player may NOT
buy resources from his own worker with his
stonemason.
Next, the player may erect up to 2 buildings
(page 6) if he has the resources to pay for
them. For each building the stonemason
erects, the player gets the victory points
indicated on the building board (the number
before the crown). Record these victory points
immediately on the victory point bar.
If the player erects at least one building, he
may place up to 2 helpers on the board (page
6) and earn victory points for them in the final
scoring.
The
player who plays a worker gets resources and can
erect buildings:
The resources of a player’s worker card are
not his until this card is executed. When the
player begins to execute the card, he moves
them from the card to his personal stock.
Next, the player may erect up to 2
buildings (page 6), if he has the resources
to pay for them. For each building the
worker erects, the player gets half of the
victory points indicated on the building
board (the number before the crown).
Record these victory points immediately on
the victory point bar.
Although the worker gives the player only half
as many victory points as the stonemason, it
may make sense to build with the worker if no
master builder is played in that round.
Example: if a player occupies the two gates
with his helpers, he should erect towers for the
final scoring.
master builder gets his
previously played character
cards back into his hand and
immediately gets victory points
for each building built in this
round.
All cards played by the player (also the
master builder himself) go back into the
player’s hand and are at his disposal in the
next round, BUT:
If a player holds all 8 cards in his hand,
he may not play the master builder!
A player may not build with the master
builder!
The player immediately gets 5 victory
points for each building that is erected by
other players in the current round.
In the two-player game, a player may build
with one card and play the master builder
in the same round. However, the master
builder does not give the player victory
points for the buildings he erects!
3. The Bricklayer
5. The Worker
4. The Stonemason
6. The Master
Builder

Erecting Buildings
(applies to bricklayers, stonemasons, and workers)
A player can erect buildings with the bricklayer,
stonemason, or worker, but is compensated in
different ways: the bricklayer gives the player talers,
the stonemason gives victory points, and the worker
gives half victory points.
Looking at the building tiles still on the gameboard,
the player decides which building(s) he wants to
erect. For each of these buildings, he pays exactly
the indicated value of the building in resources to
the general stock and then takes the building tile
from gameboard, placing it in his play area. The
gameboard now shows the completed building.
The following details apply:
Each tile is marked with the building value a
player must pay in resources for the building.
The bottom line on the tiles shows a preview of
what helpers in the (erected) building offer for
the final scoring and how much in fees the
players will have to pay when placing a helper.
This preview shows that each helper placed in the
palace costs a 17-taler fee, and that a helper here
gives the player victory points for 5 resources of
any kind in the final scoring. There is more detailed
information in the "List of Buildings for the Final
Scoring" (page 7).
If a player erects a building, he need not place one
or two helpers. The preview is intended to help the
players decide which building to erect.
The player compiles the exact building value
for each single building using at least
3 different kinds of resources and puts these
pieces of resources in the general stock.
Overpaying is not allowed and the player may
not combine the payments for two buildings.
Each must be paid for separately.
Each resource has a value ("building points")
that is also shown on the overview:
one sand pile
= 1 building point
one wooden beam
= 2 building points
one clay slab
= 4 building points
one stone block
= 5 building points
The stable has a building value of 18.
That means a player can erect a stable with, for
example, 2 stone blocks, 1 clay slab, and 4 sand
piles. This uses 3 kinds of resources and sums
to a total of 18 building points.
Hints:
1) All building values are even numbers. If, with 3
kinds of resources, a player can achieve only odd
values, he cannot erect a building.
2) If a player erects a house or tower, it’s best to
place the building tiles so they are easily visible in
his play area. This is helpful for the final scoring of
the stable and the gates.
If a player has silver and wants to use it for
paying for a building, he must first turn it into
the resources he wants:
the player puts the desired amount of silver in
the forge (on the gameboard) and takes any
one piece of resource from the carts for each
silver bar he placed in the forge. It does not
matter if helpers are there or not.
The silver remains in the forge until the
end of the game.
NOTE: each building a player erects earns 5 victory
points for each opponent who played a master
builder this round!
Using Helpers
(applies to bricklayers and stonemasons only)
The game figures are the helpers. With the
bricklayer or stonemason, a player may place up
to 2 helpers in buildings per round under the
following considerations:
The player must have erected at least one
building in the current round.
The player may place his helper on an
unoccupied copper-colored space ("helper's
place") of any erected building. The forge and the
market already exist from the beginning of the
game. For the well, the towers and the houses,
no helpers are intended.
A maximum of one helper may stand
on a helper's place.
For each helper a player places, he must pay
the taler "fee" indicated on the helper's place.
He pays the amount to the bank from his
personal stock.
If a player places 2 helpers in one round, he
must place them on different buildings. In
another round, he can place a helper in the
same building in which there is already one of
his helpers, if there is still a place available. In
different rounds, a player can place 3 helpers in
all 3 places in the servants' house.
A player may remove his trader's helper(s) from
the carts/rider and immediately use them in
buildings.
Each used helper remains in the building till the
end of the game. That means: the bricklayer's
and stonemason's helpers cannot be displaced
(in contrast to the trader's helpers).
Helpers in buildings give their owner
victory points in the final scoring. How
many victory points a helper gives a
player depends on the kind of building
in which he is. For each building,
different factors apply for the scoring of victory
points, e. g.:
the number of occupied or
unoccupied helper's places
the number of erected towers or houses
the number of remaining
building tiles, etc.
For a detailed description, see below for the list of
buildings for the final scoring below.
List of Buildings
for the Final Scoring
The keep
keep scores 3 victory points for
each unoccupied copper-colored
helper’s place in the castle.
The tavern
The player who placed a helper for
12 talers scores one victory point each
for this and any other helper (his own
and other players’) who is in the castle
at the end of the game.
The player who placed a helper for 6
talers scores one victory point each for every 2
helpers (his own and other players’) that are in the
castle at the end of the game. If the number of
helpers is uneven, the number is rounded down.
After the helpers have been removed from
the carts, 11 helpers are in the castle at the end of
the game. Player A gets 11 victory points for his
helper in the tavern because this helper is standing
on the 12 spot. Player B gets only 5 victory points
for his helper because his helper is standing on the
6 spot.
Building value
preview

The gates
The players with helpers in the gates score victory
points for each erected tower; it is unimportant who
erected the towers:
small gate (building value 12)
scores 1 victory point for each
big gate (building value 18)
scores 2 victory points for each
The stable
The owners of helpers in the
stable score victory points for
each erected house; it is
unimportant who erected the
houses:
The owner of the helper on the 16 spot scores
3 victory points for each erected house.
The owner of the helper on the 12 spot scores
2 victory points for each erected house.
The servants' house
The players with helpers in the
servants’ house score one victory
point per un-built building tile: the
number of victory points is equal to
the number of building tiles that are
on the gameboard at the end of the game.
The market
The players with helpers in the
market may convert their talers
into victory points at the end of the
game. They place converted talers
back in the box.
If a player has only one helper in the market, he
scores one victory point per 2 converted talers.
Since the player can convert only an even
number of talers, if he has an odd number, he
keeps one taler until the winner has been
determined.
If a player has helpers on both spaces in the
market, he scores one victory point for each
converted taler.
The Palace
The owner of a helper in the
palace may convert up to 5
resource pieces of any kind from
his personal stock into victory
points at the end of the game:
Calculate this value according to the entries on
the overview (see "Erecting Buildings", page 7)
Therefore, a clay slab, for example, scores 4
victory points.
If a player has both helpers in the palace, he
can convert up to 10 resource pieces from his
personal stock into victory points.
If a player wants to convert silver, he must first
put it in the forge (and leave it there). He takes
any one piece of resource from the carts for
each bar he puts in the forge.
The forge
A player with a helper on the 10
spot of the forge scores one
victory point for each silver bar
that is in the forge at the end of
the game.
A player with a helper on the 6 spot, scores one
victory point for each 2 bars. Round an odd number
of bars down to the next even number.
9 silver bars are in the forge. One player managed to
occupy both spaces with his helpers. He scores 9
victory points for his first helper and 4 victory points for
the second for a total of 13 victory points.
The Castle in Winter
The onset of winter has come much too early. Frost
and icy cold from the north blow through the whole
country. Severe snowfalls hinder the building of the
half-completed castle whose silhouettes stand out
more clearly week by week against the grey of the
sky.
The rules of the basic game apply, except for the
following differences and additions:
Place the game board on the table with the winter
side face up. Shuffle the winter cards and place
them next to the gameboard as a face-down stack.
Place the building tiles on the snow-covered
buildings.
First, each player plays one or 2
character cards as usual face down in his
play area. In each round marked with a
winter card, one winter card is brought into
the game: the starting player draws the top
card from the stack and reads the card
aloud. Then he puts it face up next to the
castle, easily visible to all players.
For many winter cards, the conditions
described have to be carried out immediately
before the played character cards are
revealed. After that, the player places the
winter card back in the box.
IMPORTANT: As in the basic game, players
may, if it is advantageous, convert their silver
bars into resources of their choice.
Example fireplace: the player puts 2 silver
bars in the forge in order to pay the required
2 wooden beams.
The functions of the Winter
cards:
Village tavern:
With a stonemason or bricklayer,
a player can place a helper here
as an "innkeeper" for 3 talers.
From now on, when a player
plays the trader, he has to pay 1
taler to the owner of the
innkeeper. If there is no innkeeper yet, the
taler is put on the card and is taken by the
player who next places his helper on the
card. If a player cannot pay the taler for his
trader, he must take one of his trader's
helpers off the gameboard and back to his
personal stock.
The innkeeper doesn't have to stay in the
village tavern. If a player plays the trader,
bricklayer, or stonemason, he can remove
his innkeeper and use him as a helper in a
new place. This winter card stays in the
game, and new talers are put on the card
again until a player places a helper as an
innkeeper.
The card does not count for the final scoring.
round spaces
for the
winter cards

Granary:
With the stonemason or bricklayer, a
player can place helpers in the granary.
Here, the rule "Using Helpers" (page 6)
applies, if not stated otherwise.
In this case, placing a helper costs 5
talers.
If only one helper is standing in the granary
at the final scoring, he scores 10 points for his
owner; with 2 helpers, each of them scores only 7
points for his owner, and with 3 helpers, each of
them scores only 3 points for his owner. Is does not
matter whether these helpers belong to one or more
players.
The granary doesn't count for the keep or the tavern
in the final scoring.
Plague:
Each player immediately loses any one
card from his discard pile or pays one
taler to the bank for each of the cards
in his discard pile. Each player chooses
whether he would rather pay or give up
a card.
Cracked wall:
Each player may immediately give up a
maximum of 3 stone blocks (to the
general stock) to score 3 victory points
for each of these blocks. After that, the
card is removed from the game.
Damsel of the castle:
From now on until the end of the game,
players may court the damsel of the
castle. When any player declares his
desire to court the damsel, the players,
beginning with the starting player, place
any one piece of resource or one taler on the card
at the beginning of each round. If a player does not
want to participate in the courting any more, he is
out for the game and cannot rejoin later. When only
one player remains(he has placed a taler or
resource piece and the others have dropped out),
he takes the card with the damsel of the castle and
immediately scores 8 victory points. All others,
including those who did not court, share the
resources and/or talers that are on the card.
Beginning with the starting player, each player in
turn takes one piece from the card until it is empty.
After that, the card is removed from the game.
If the card is still lying face up at the end of the
game and nobody was able win over the damsel of
the castle, nobody gets the card, and nothing is
distributed.
Snowdrift:
Each player immediately gives up one
worker or pays 3 talers to the bank. If a
player gives up a worker, he takes the
card from his hand or from his discard
pile and puts it back in the box. As
soon as everybody has paid his tribute for the
snowdrift, this card is removed from the game.
Summaries of the Summer
Game and the Winter Game
Course of a round
The starting player takes the taler from the
round space and the starting player marker.
Players play character cards face down and
flip them over at the same time.
Equip turned-over worker cards.
Execute played cards in the defined order.
How to get resources, talers
or immediate victory points
1. Resources
• The trader uses his helper(s) next
to a cart or silver courier.
• The bricklayer chooses one kind
from the defense tower.
• The stonemason buys from the workers.
• The worker gives the player what the
stonemason didn't buy from him.
2. Talers
• The messenger gives the player 8 talers
from the bank.
• The bricklayer uses resources
(one resource = one taler).
• The worker: only if a stonemason
buys resources from him.
3. Victory points (VP)
• The stonemason erects buildings
(number of VP before the crown).
• The worker erects buildings
(half number of VP before the crown).
• The master builder scores the player 5 VP
for each building erected in the current round.
Designers:
Inka & Markus Brand
Illustrator:
Michael Menzel
Layout:
Steffi Krage
Text:
Annegret Schoenfelder
English
translation:
Sybille & Bruce Whitehill, "Word for Wort"
English
editing:
Scott Tepper & Jay Tummelson
Copyright:
©eggertspiele GmbH&Co. KG
2008 Hamburg / www.eggertspiele.de
Acknowledgments
The publisher and the authors thank the numerous assistants who contributed to "A Castle for all Seasons".
Their opinions and suggestions helped the game idea develop and mature!
In particular, we’d like to mention Thilo Knoblich & Susanne Wecken, Ela & Stefan Hein, Gert Beer, Steffen & Anke Müller,
Michael Rieneck, and Klaus Mülder. We thank explicitly all participants of the Cologne game authors’ meeting, particularly Thomas
Odenhoven, Matthias Schmidt, and Matthias Prinz. In Northern Germany, we thank the playtesters' groups at the Hamburg game authors'
meeting, at the "Café Sternschanze", at the "Zinnschmelze", and at "FAIRspielt"; elsewhere, the playtesters' groups abroad: the "Gathering
of Friends" and the Dutch groups of "The Gamemaster"!
Specifically, the authors thank Michael Menzel for his impressively artistic rendering of the game idea, and the authors'
children, Lukas & Emely, for their patience.