Roll all free dice.
Select one die and the character 
of the matching color.
Place this character’s 
religion stone in the 
character’s country.
Place a trading house in 
this character’s country 
according to the number rolled.
Take the character card, place 
the die on it, and use the 
character once. Flip over the 
next character card.
Select one free die and go to the 
next unoccupied space of this 
color on the action track.
Barney Willard
+1
The Pope excommunicates 
Elizabeth I and instructs all 
English Catholics to disobey the 
Queen’s commands. 
Each player with a trading 
house in England must turn 
one die to the number three 
and place it on top of his or 
her Loch Leven card. 
Event
Protection:
England, 1558. The venerable Kingsbridge Cathedral watches over a city torn by religious hatred. Half of Europe is 
deeply divided by conflict between Catholics and Protestants. England, France, Spain, and the Netherlands are all vying 
for power and resources. In this politically unstable environment, players compete to increase their influence by aligning 
with members of prominent families. They form alliances with dignitaries across Europe and set up trading houses to sell 
their goods. The religious power struggles in these countries are incessant, and those who sympathize with the losing 
religion are occasionally driven out of a country. Who will best exploit the changing religious attitudes in each country 
to gain control?
Game Materials
Object of the Game
The object of the game is to earn as many victory points as possible. The game ends as soon as a player reaches 50 
victory points on the victory point track. The player who is furthest ahead on the track by the end of the game wins 
the game. Players gain victory points primarily by selling goods and being a member of the winning religion in times 
of religious conflict.
For 2–4 Players, Ages 12 and Up
52 Character cards
4 Summary cards
16 Event cards
4 Religion cards
Back of cards
4 Loch Leven cards
1 Game board
80 Playing cards:
2 Torches 
(each assembled from 
2 pieces)
14 x Book
14 x Ore
14 x Cloth
14 x Wine
16 Protection tiles
28 Advantage tiles
4 Cross 
token
24 Dice (4 x black, white, blue, brown, orange, and purple)
30 Religion stones (wooden) 
(10 x purple, gray, and natural)
1 Starting player marker
4 Action disks in player colors 
(1 x yellow, light blue, green, and red)
16 Trading houses in player colors 
(4 x yellow, light blue, green, and red)
4 Victory point disks in player colors 
(1 x yellow, light blue, green, and red)
56 Goods tiles:

Game Preparation
•	 Before beginning the first game, carefully punch out all of the 
tiles from the cardboard holders. Assemble the torches by 
connecting their two pieces.
•	 The game now will be explained for four players. The specific 
features of games with two or three players are explained on 
page 10 and do not need to be read yet.
•	 Place the game board in the middle of the table. The board 
shows four countries: England, France, the Netherlands, and 
Spain, symbolized by major cities in the novel. Separate the 
goods tiles according to type (book, ore, cloth, and wine) 
and place them next to the game board.
•	 Separate the religion stones into piles according to their 
three respective colors: 
 
 
 
 
•	 Each player chooses a color and receives four trading 
houses, one victory point disk, one action disk, one 
religion card, and one summary card in this color.
•	 Each player places his or her summary card with the “1st 
half of the year” side facing up in front of himself or herself.
•	 Every player is given one of the four Loch Leven cards at 
random. The back of the card specifies the religion the player 
starts out with. Players then place their religion cards with 
the corresponding side facing up on the table to the right, 
next to their summary card. Each player is also given one 
protection tile and one goods tile of the type of goods 
pictured. In addition, the back side of each player’s Loch 
Leven card depicts the player’s starting space on the action 
track (lower right on the game board). Each player places his 
or her action disk on this space.
	
 Example: The blue player starts off as a Protestant. That player 
is given one protection tile and one ore. The player places his 
action disk on the action track on the space with the white ship.
•	 Next, the player places his or her Loch Leven card with the 
“Loch Leven” side facing up to the left of his or her summary 
card. 
•	 Each player places his or her victory point disk on space two 
of the victory point track.
•	 Each player is given his or her own set of dice in six different 
colors. Four of these colors represent the four countries (with 
their respective cities) for which they can be rolled: 
White = England (Kingsbridge) 
Blue = France (Paris) 
Orange = The Netherlands (Antwerp) 
Brown = Spain (Seville)
The purple die is a wild-card die and can be used in any of the 
four countries. As long as these five dice do not lie on character 
cards, they are called “free dice,” which each player places in 
front of himself or herself. 
The black die is the religion die. Unlike the other dice, it 
features the numbers one through five. Instead of a six, it has a 
second three.
•	 Each player rolls his or her religion die and places it on his 
or her religion card. The number shown on the die indicates 
how many rounds the player will belong to this religion.
	
 Example: The setup for the blue player
Purple =
Gray =
Natural color =
Neutral
•	 The character cards and event cards feature backsides with 
four different colors, each corresponding to the colors of the 
four countries. All cards are separated into four decks 
according to the four backside colors. Each deck is shuffled. 
These four card decks are stacked around the game board 
so that their colors match the respective countries they lie 
next to.
•	 The top card from each deck is turned over and placed back 
on the top of the deck. If you flip over an event card at the 
start of play, remove this card from the game without the 
event occurring. Then flip over the next card from each deck 
until an open character card lies on top of all four decks.
•	 Place a corresponding religion stone on top of each 
character card. The religion stone (Catholic, Protestant, or 
neutral) that each character brings to the game is depicted 
next to the name of each character.
•	 Shuffle the advantage tiles and place them in two covered 
decks on the upper left-hand side of the game board.
•	 Place the protection tiles in two decks on Kingsbridge 
Cathedral.
•	 Place the torches next to the game board.
•	 The player who was most recently in a church will be given 
the starting player marker and begins the game.
•	 The starting player does not change during the game. To 
ensure that all players get their equal turn, the game will end 
after the last turn of the player sitting to the right of the 
starting player.

KING FELIPE II
Ore Trader
Caterina de’ Medici 
The Game Board
•	 The game board depicts a stylized view of Europe in the 16th 
century (from England’s perspective) with the countries 
England, France, Spain, and the Netherlands. The major 
cities of each country are depicted: the fictional city of 
Kingsbridge; Paris; Seville; and Antwerp.
•	 Two specific types of goods can be sold in each country. The 
type of goods and for how many victory points each type can 
be sold are indicated in each country’s cost of goods box.
•	 To be able to sell in a country, a player must have a trading 
house on one of the six sites for active trading houses.
•	 During the game, religion stones are placed on the religion 
spaces until every religion space in a country is covered and a 
religious conflict arises.
•	 The action track is on the lower right. Players move around 
this track with their action disks.
•	 The victory point track runs across the left and top sides of 
the game board.
Overview of Gameplay
•	 Each player has six dice. The black die determines how 
long a player will belong to a given religion. Each player 
will use his or her remaining dice to draw a character card 
in every round. 
Each character card permits one action that the player 
can execute once per round. The number of rounds that a 
character card remains available to a player is determined 
by the number on the die rolled for that card. As long as 
the die lies on top of the card, the die cannot be used for 
other purposes.
•	 When players draw a character card, they open up a 
trading house in the corresponding country. A player 
can gain victory points through the sale of goods only 
in countries where he or she has a trading house. The 
trading house site number has no bearing on the sale of 
goods for victory points.
•	 The selected character card comes with a religion stone, 
which is placed in the character’s country. If there are 
four religion stones in one country, a religious conflict will 
arise in that country. At this point, players check which 
religion has more religion stones in that country. Then, 
each player possessing a trading house in that country 
and adhering to the majority religion receives a number 
of victory points equal to the number of the site on which 
his or her active trading house is placed. However, if a 
player belongs to the minority religion, then that player 
loses his or her trading house, thereby losing the ability to 
sell goods in that country.
•	 With the exception of their selected character cards, 
players influence gameplay in every round by executing 
an action on the action track. For this, they use one of 
the free dice they did not use for their character cards. 
The more free dice they have available to use, the more 
choices players have on the action track.
Course of the Game
•	 The game is played in rounds (= years). Each year consists of 
two parts (= half-years).
•	 The starting player begins by executing all of his or her 
actions for the 1st half of the year. The other players follow 
in clockwise order.
•	 Once all of the players have played the 1st half of the year, 
the starting player continues by executing all of his or her 
actions for the 2nd half of the year. The other players again 
follow in clockwise order.
•	 Once all of the players have played a round in the 2nd half of 
the year, the starting player begins the next year again with 
the 1st half of the year.
•	 The game ends after the year in which a player reaches 50 
points or more. Thus, every player plays until the end of the 
2nd half of the year.
Action 
track
Religion stones
Victory point 
track
Action 
disk
Religion space
Sites for active 
trading houses
Cost of goods box
Goods 
tiles

COUNT OF Feria
COUNT OF Feria
FATHER Huus
FATHER Huus
Elizabeth I
Wine Merchant
ving from left to right, rotate 
of the dice on your cards to 
you rotate each die, execute the 
dicates a one, roll it again and 
character die already indicates a 
place it with your free dice and 
ove the character from the game.
Elizabeth I
Wine Merchant
ving from left to right, rotate 
of the dice on your cards to 
you rotate each die, execute the 
dicates a one, roll it again and 
character die already indicates a 
place it with your free dice and 
ove the character from the game.
Course of One Game Year
1st Half of the Year: Rotating the dice and 
	
using the character cards
	
At the start of each year, players use the people with whom 
they are allied. With some people, alliances are broken. 
Players may change their religion.
•	 In the 1st half of each year, each player rotates the dice lying 
on the cards in his or her respective sets to decrease the face-
up number on each of these dice by one. This signifies that 
one year has passed. At the start of the game (during the 1st 
half of the 1st year) only the black religion die is lying on the 
religion card. As the game progresses, a die will lie on each 
character card a player possesses. Starting in the 1st half of 
the 2nd year, after the player has rotated his or her religion 
die to decrease it by one, the player will also rotate the dice 
on his or her character cards, in order from left to right, 
decreasing each die by one. Players can execute each action 
of the associated character cards once.
•	 If a die indicates the number one, the player will not rotate 
the die to decrease the number.
	
 	 If this is the player’s religion die, then the player 
immediately rolls it again. The player must decide if he or 
she wishes to remain Catholic or Protestant. If a player 
changes his or her religion, the player flips over his or her 
religion card. The player places the die he or she just rolled 
back on top of the card.
	
 	 If this is a die on one of the player’s character cards, the 
card is removed from the game. The player cannot use this 
card’s action anymore. The player places the die back with 
his or her free dice (the dice not lying on top of cards), and 
it will be available to that player once again in the 2nd 
half of the year.
Examples for the 1st half of the year: 
1.	The red player has the cards below in his set:
	 The red player rotates his religion die from three to two. This 
means that he remains Catholic for another two years. The 
player then rotates the blue die from four to three, executing 
the action of his cloth merchant and earning one cloth. He 
then rotates the brown die from two to one and earns one 
protection tile from the Count of Feria. 
2.	The yellow player has the cards below in her set: 
The yellow player’s religion die indicates one. Therefore, she 
rolls the die again and gets a four. The player decides to 
change religion and flips her religion card from Catholic to 
Protestant. She then rotates her orange die from five to four 
and earns one advantage tile from Father Huus.
3.	The green player has the cards below in his set: 
The green player rotates his religion die from two to one. Only 
in the following year can he roll his religion die again and 
determine his religious allegiance. The player rotates his white 
die from five to four and earns two victory points from Elizabeth 
I. The brown die already indicates the number one. The player 
removes the die from the cloth merchant and puts it back with 
his free dice. The card is removed from the game and its action 
can no longer be executed. The player then rotates the blue die 
from four to three, earning one wine from the wine merchant.

2nd Half of the Year: Rolling free dice, selecting 	
	
a character card, erecting a trading house, and 	
	
moving forward on the action track
	
In the 2nd half of the year, players create alliances with new 
people, who provide them advantages. They erect trading 
houses to enable the sales of goods, and they influence 
gameplay through their actions.
•	 After the player sitting to the right of the starting player 
concludes his or her actions for the 1st half of the year, 
each player flips over his or her summary card to the “2nd 
half of the year” side.
•	 The 2nd half of the year consists always of two parts: 
In the first part, players use one of their free dice to select a 
character card and add it to their sets. Next, they carry out 
all actions associated with that character. In the second part, 
players move their action disks along the action track and 
may carry out the actions selected.
• 	Only when the starting player has completed both parts of 
the 2nd half of the year do each of the other players take 
their turns in clockwise order. 
Rolling free dice, selecting character a card, and erecting a 
trading house
•	 The player whose turn it is rolls all his or her free dice. 
These are all the dice that are not lying on cards in that 
player’s set.
•	 Then the player selects one of these dice and draws the 
character card lying on top of the deck corresponding to the 
color of the selected die.
	
 Example: The green player has cast his free white, blue, and 
purple dice. The green player selects his white die, which shows 
the number four, to then draw Francis Walsingham in England.
	
 Important: If a player uses his or her purple wild-card die, 
he or she can draw the top character card from any country. 
•	 As a first action, the player must move 
the religion stone lying on the 
selected character card to a free 
religion space in the character’s 
country. (See page 9 for rules on using 
a protection tile to avoid placing a 
religion stone.)
	
 Example: The gray religion stone 
(Protestant) is placed on a free religion 
space in England. 
Important: If at this time, all of the religion spaces in this 
country are filled with religion stones, a religious conflict 
will erupt there at the end of the 2nd half of the year (see 
page 8 for further details). To ensure players do not forget 
this, a torch is placed next to the religion spaces on the 
torch sign as a marker.
•	 The player then places one of his or her trading houses on 
the site in the country indicated by the selected die. The 
number of the site is determined by the number on the 
selected die. If the site is already occupied, the trading house 
located there must be moved to the site that is one number 
lower.
	
 Example: In England, the green player can place his trading 
house on site 4. However, there is already a trading house there 
that belongs to the red player. Therefore, the red house is moved 
over to site 3 so that the green player can put his house on site 4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
If there had been a trading house belonging to the yellow player 
on site 3, this would have been pushed over to site 2 by the red 
trading house. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
Note: If a house is pushed down from site 1, it must be removed 
from the game board. Its owner will get it back and can use it 
again later.
 
Important: Only in countries where a player owns a trading 
house can that player sell goods for victory points. 
Each player may own only one trading house in any single 
country.
•	 If a player sets up a trading house in a country where they 
already have one valued at a lower number than the die just 
rolled for the new house, then the player may increase the 
value of that trading house. To do so, the player will move 
the house to the site with the new, higher number. If the 
new roll of the die is the same or lower, nothing will be 
changed.

Imke Wolman
ARCHDEACON ROMERO
l all free dice.
one die and the character 
 matching color.
this character’s 
on stone in the 
cter’s country.
a trading house in 
haracter’s country 
ding to the number rolled.
the character card, place 
e on it, and use the 
cter once. Flip over the 
one free die and go to the 
unoccupied space of this 
on the action track.
Imke Wolman
ARCHDEACON ROMERO
l all free dice.
one die and the character 
 matching color.
this character’s 
on stone in the 
cter’s country.
a trading house in 
haracter’s country 
ding to the number rolled.
the character card, place 
e on it, and use the 
cter once. Flip over the 
one free die and go to the 
unoccupied space of this 
on the action track.
	
Example: In England, the green player can place his trading 
house on site 4. However, he already has a house on site 2. 
Therefore, he does not set up a new house. Instead, he moves the 
existing house over to the site with the higher number, 4.
•	 Only after setting up a trading house can the player draw the 
character card from the deck and place it in his or her set 
to the right of the other cards. 
•	 The player then places the die with which he or she had 
selected the character card on top of the card, thereby 
indicating how many years the player will be allied with this 
character. 
	
 Example: The green player places the new character card in his 
set to the right and then places the white die with the number that 
was rolled, four, on top of the card. Having done so, the player 
can use Francis Walsingham four times.
•	 Now the player can immediately execute the action of his 
or her new character card one time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
Example: The green player may employ Francis Walsingham to 
place or remove one religion stone in a country of his choosing. 
 
All action symbols on the character cards are explained 
on page 11. Ideally, all players should familiarize 
themselves with the symbols together before starting the 
game. These symbols are on the character cards as well 
as on the spaces of the action track and on the advantage 
tiles.
Drawing a new character card and following the 
instructions on an event card when it appears
•	 After using his or her new character card, the player flips 
over the top card on that character’s deck and places it back 
on the deck. The religion stone depicted is immediately 
placed on top of the new character card.
•	 If an event card is drawn, the player reads aloud the text and 
immediately follows its instructions. The card is then 
removed from the game, and a new card is flipped over. If 
another event card is drawn, it will be ignored and removed 
from the game. No more than one event can take place 
during each player’s turn. For this reason, as many cards must 
be flipped over as necessary until a character card is drawn. 
The player sets the specified religion stone on top of the new 
Moving an action disk on the action track and 
executing an action
•	 At the end of his or her turn, the player must use one of his 
or her free dice to move his or her action disk on the action 
track and may execute just one action. 
•	 Unlike when selecting character cards, the numbers on the 
dice play no role at all on the action track. Only the color of 
the die has any significance here.
•	 The player selects one of his or her free dice and moves his 
or her action disk clockwise on the action track to the next 
unoccupied space that is marked by a die of that same color. 
•	 Only one action disk is allowed on any single space on the 
action track.
•	 The player may immediately execute the action of the space 
to which his or her action disk was moved. If so desired, the 
player can also refuse to execute the action.
•	 The die that the player used to make his or her move will not 
be considered “used” for the action. The die will remain free 
and can be cast again the following year.
•	 Tip: To quickly see which action spaces a player can move to, it 
is helpful if the player places his or her free dice temporarily on 
the action spaces that come next in clockwise order from the 
current position of the player’s action disk.
	
 Example: 
The yellow player has the following free dice available: 
 
 

(2)
(1)
( )
The yellow player selects her purple die and moves to the next 
space marked with a purple die. Now the player can sell goods 
in Spain.
•	 By exchanging one victory point (moving the victory point 
disk one space back on the victory point track) a player can 
skip one unoccupied action space of the selected die color and 
move to the next. If the player moves back two or three spaces 
on the victory point track, then he or she may even skip two or 
three unoccupied spaces of that specific color, respectively.
•	 However, the player may not move all the way around the 
track back to the space where he or she began the move. 
	
 Instead of the purple die, the yellow player could have chosen 
another of her free dice; e.g., the white die. However, to do so 
she does not necessarily have to move to the first space marked 
with a white die (1), but instead she could choose to move to the 
next unoccupied white space after that (2). The player might 
earn one or sell up to two cloth tiles on this space. Skipping one 
white space would cost that player one victory point. The player 
would have to pay just one victory point, as the second white 
space is occupied by the green player (X) and would not be 
counted. The yellow player would not be allowed to move to her 
starting space, even for two victory points.
•	 If a player has no free dice available, he or she may not 
move his or her action disk in this particular turn and may 
not execute the action of the space where they are already 
positioned. However, if a player does have a free die, then he 
or she must move. The player is not allowed to stay on the 
same action space.
The End of a Year
Once the player sitting to the right of the starting player 
concludes his or her actions for the 2nd half of the year, the 
starting player begins the next year with the 1st half of the 
year. All players then flip their summary cards over to the 
“1st half of the year” side.
Game End and Winner
•	 The game ends the year after a player reaches 50 or more 
victory points. When a player’s score exceeds 50 points, his 
or her score continue to be counted at one on the victory 
point track. Then, 50 is added to his or her point total at 
the end.
•	 All players play through until the end of the 2nd half of the 
year. The year ends with the player sitting to the right of the 
starting player.
•	 If a loss of points causes the score of the player who triggered 
the end of the game to fall below 50 victory points again, 
then the game still ends after the current year being played. 
•	 Players will receive additional victory points at the end, and 
they will advance their disks on the victory point track:
	
 a)	Two victory points for each trading house a player 
possesses in any country
	
 b)	One victory point for each unused protection tile
	
 c)	 One victory point for every two unsold goods tiles 
(rounded down)
	
 d)	Victory points depicted on the advantage tiles. 
There are five one-point tiles, five two-point tiles, and two 
three-point tiles included in the game.
	
	
Note: Victory points on advantage tiles may be uncovered 
only at the end of the game. They may not be used to reach 
the 50 point mark to trigger the game end earlier.
Whoever is now farthest along the victory point track wins. 
Example for the final points: 
One player possesses three trading houses on the game board (= 6 
victory points). That player also has one protection tile (= 1 victory 
point), three goods tiles (= 1.5, or 1 victory point rounded down), 
and two advantage tiles, one with one victory point and one with 
two victory points (= 3 victory points). Thus, the player moves 
forward 11 spaces on the victory point track.
If there is a tie, the player with the most unsold goods tiles left 
over wins. If there is still a tie, then the player with the highest 
number currently showing on his or her religion die wins. If 
after that there is still no clear winner, then there is simply 
more than one winner.

Captain
Other Rules
Trading houses and the sale of goods
Important rules with no exceptions: A player can only sell 
goods in a country if the player possesses a trading house on a 
site in that country.
•	 A player will keep a trading house in a country even if later 
on he or she has to give up the character card with which he 
or she originally set up the trading house.
•	 The goods a player is entitled to sell in a given country are 
specified in the cost of goods box next to the sites for trading 
houses. Only two types of goods can be sold in each country. 
The player earns four victory points for one type of good, 
while for the other type, the player earns two victory points.
•	 In each country, a player may only sell one tile of each goods 
type depicted there per turn.
•	 Goods are sold first of all by executing actions on the action 
track:
	
	If a player moves his or her action disk to a space 
indicating a ship, he or she can, in the country of the 
associated color, sell one goods tile of each good that can 
be sold in that country (as long as that player has the 
goods tile and a trading house there).
 
	
	 Example: After moving to this action space, a player can sell 
one cloth for four victory points and one wine for two victory 
points in England. That player might also sell just one cloth or 
just one wine, but no more than one tile of a given good.
Important: A player can only move onto this type of action 
space by using the purple die. If a player uses the purple die as 
a wild-card die to draw a character card, then as long as the 
die lies on that character card, the player may not use the die 
for these purposes on the action track.
	
	 On a space where a specific type of good is depicted, a 
player may choose to receive one goods tile of this type or 
sell one or two goods tiles of this type. The player may sell 
at most two goods tiles of the type depicted (one in each 
country where that good can be sold), under the condition 
that the player possesses trading houses there. 
Example: A player moving to this action space can sell one 
wine for four victory points in the Netherlands and one wine 
for two victory points in England. The player can decide to sell 
in one or both countries, but only one tile per country.
 •	 In addition, sales of goods can be made using the “Captain” 
character card. In every country’s card deck, one of these 
cards is present. A player who executes the action of a 
captain may sell one goods tile of his or her choice for three 
victory points (as long as that player possesses a trading 
house in a country where this type of good can be sold). 
The same action is possible if a player uses a specific 
advantage tile.
 
Religious conflicts
•	 When all of the religion spaces in a country are covered by 
religion stones, at the end of the player’s turn during which 
the spaces became covered, a religious conflict will occur. It 
makes no difference if the turn occurs during the 1st or 2nd 
half of the year. 
In the 1st half of the year, a conflict will play out after the 
current player has rotated all his or her dice to decrease them 
by one, and used his or her character cards. In the 2nd half 
of the year, a conflict occurs after the current player has 
executed his or her action on the action track. 
•	 Since a conflict can be played out only at the end of a turn, 
a torch is placed on the torch symbol next to the religion 
spaces as a reminder when the conflict is first triggered. 
•	 If there are no more free religion spaces in a country, no 
more religion stones can be placed there.
•	 When a conflict occurs, players must check whether there 
are more Catholic (= purple) or Protestant (= gray) religion 
stones in that country. Neutral religion stones will be 
ignored. If there is a majority of either religion, then that 
religion wins the conflict. 
	
 Note: It doesn’t matter where in the religion spaces a religion 
stone has been placed. 
	
 Examples: Protestants win in the following scenarios:

•	 Each player who possesses a trading house in the country 
and belongs to the religion of the majority winner of the 
religious conflict there earns victory points as a result. 
Players earn the number of victory points indicated by the 
numbers on the sites where their trading houses are located. 
•	 Each player who possesses a trading house in the country 
and belongs to the minority religion during the religious 
conflict there does not earn any victory points in the 
conflict. Furthermore, these players must remove their 
trading houses from that country. Note: Without a trading 
house, the player is no longer allowed to sell goods in that 
country. Only later on can the player again set up a trading 
house by drawing a character card.
•	 If a player does not possess a trading house in a country, 
then that player will not be affected by the conflict.
	
 Example of a conflict outcome: In England, Protestants have 
won the conflict. The red and green players are Protestants. 
They earn victory points in accordance with the positions of 
their trading houses: red earns four points and green two points. 
The yellow player is Catholic. That player earns no points and 
must remove her trading house from the country. The blue 
player is Protestant, but since she has no trading house in 
England, she earns no points.
•	 If there is no majority of either religion, then the conflict is 
avoided. No players will win victory points or lose their 
trading houses in that country.
	
 A conflict is avoided in the following cases:
•	 After a conflict has been triggered and played out (even if it 
has been avoided), all religion stones are removed from the 
country and placed back in the pile. The torch is removed 
from the board.
•	 If during a player’s turn religious conflicts are triggered in 
more than one country, that player will decide the order 
in which the conflicts are played out country by country.
•	 After a conflict is triggered, it is still possible that a religion 
stone is removed from the country before the end of the 
player’s turn. In that case, a conflict does not yet take place 
there. The torch is removed from the game board.
Event cards and protection tiles
•	 Every card deck includes four event cards: three of these in 
each deck can have negative consequences for players. 
However, every affected player can prevent the event’s 
negative consequences by using one of his or her protection 
tiles and then putting it back in the pile.
•	 Additionally, every card deck features one event card that 
earns each player victory points corresponding to the current 
value on his or her religion die, if, in exchange, that player 
gives up one protection tile.
•	 A player may also use a protection tile (and thus return it to 
the pile) when he or she draws a character card in a country. 
That player then may remove the religion stone on that card 
and put it back in the pile instead of placing it in the related 
country. However, only the player whose turn it is has this 
option.
•	 Unless otherwise specified on an event card, all of the 
players specified are always affected regardless of their 
countries. 
Example: For example, if an event card from the England deck 
says “Each Catholic loses two victory points,” all players who 
belong to the Catholic religion are affected — not just those who 
have a trading house in England.
•	 If, because of an event card, a player loses so many victory 
points that his or her score drops below one, then the 
player’s victory point disk will be removed from the game 
board. It will be put back on the board later when he or she 
earns victory points again. However, a player may not drop 
below 0 intentionally.
•	 Loch Leven: In each card stack, 
there is an event among the 
negative event types that requires 
players to place one of their dice on 
their Loch Leven cards. This can be 
a free die or one that is on a 
character card. If you select a die that is on a character card, 
that character card comes out of the game. A die on a Loch 
Leven card is rotated down one number in the 1st half of the 
year just like the other dice (even before the religion die) — 
until it becomes “free” again. 
As long as a die lies on a Loch Leven card, it cannot be used 
to draw a character card or move on the action track. 
Victory points as compensation for 
the religious minority
Whenever a player rotates his or her religion die to decrease it 
by one, or rolls this die again, and is then the only player 
belonging to a particular religion, that player will earn one 
victory point. 

Using victory points
•	 A player may choose not to draw a character card. Being 
unable or unwilling to draw a character card will cost the 
player one victory point.
•	 In exchange for three victory points, a player may remove a 
die of his or her choosing from one of his or her cards during 
his or her turn. A die removed from a character card or Loch 
Leven is put back with the free dice. Whenever a die is 
removed from a character card, this card is then removed 
from the game. A religion die that has been removed must be 
rolled again immediately.
•	 In exchange for victory points, a player may choose to skip 
or pass over action spaces when moving along the action 
track (see page 7).
Ending the game early
•	 The game ends early only in rare cases when the card deck for 
a particular country has been used up.
•	 However, even in this case the final year must be played out 
until the end.
•	 Although no more character cards can be drawn in this 
country, players may still select the die corresponding to this 
country’s color to set up their trading houses or increase their 
values.
Special rules for games with two or three players
•	 The following special rules apply to the action track in 
games with two or three players:
•	 If a player finishes his or her move on a space labeled with a 
purple die, then that player can place a neutral religion stone 
in that country in addition to selling goods there. The player 
may also do so even if he or she chooses not to make a sale 
there.
 
 
 
 
	
 Example: After moving to this action space, the player can 
place one neutral religion stone on England.
•	 In a game with only two players, a cross token is placed on 
the first religion space in each country at the start of the 
game. Thus, during the entire course of the game, only three 
religion spaces will be available.
 
 
•	 If both players at the start of a game with two players turn 
out to belong to the same religion, one player will return his 
or her Loch Leven card and draw a new one so that both 
players start with different religions.
•	 Excess Loch Leven cards are removed from the game. 
Background information on the novel 
A Column of Fire
•	 Given that Ken Follett’s novel plays out largely in England, 
the game board has been designed from this perspective, 
which may be unusual for Continental Europeans.
•	 For technical reasons, Seville has been positioned to the 
West of Paris. In reality, the city should be further to the East 
and outside the margins of the board.
•	 Kingsbridge is a fictional city located in southern England.
•	 Even if the country is referred to as “the Netherlands” in the 
game, its proper appellation would be “the Spanish 
Netherlands” as the territory belonged to the Spanish crown 
in the 16th century.
•	 The city of Antwerp belonged to the Netherlands in the 
16th century. Today it is situated in the Kingdom of Belgium 
founded in the 19th century. 
•	 Loch Leven is the historical location in Scotland where 
Mary Stuart was imprisoned and from where she escaped. 
Almost 20 years later, she was condemned and executed for 
conspiracy against Queen Elizabeth I for high treason. Since 
the event cards are randomly revealed, it is possible in the 
game that the Mary Stuart character card is revealed after 
being reported on an event card.
•	 In the 16th century, Protestants dressed inconspicuously. 
Gray was their preferred color because, on the one hand, 
they believed in keeping a modest appearance, and, on the 
other hand, they were not permitted to practice their religion 
openly in many places. At the same time, Catholics enjoyed 
dressing in colorful clothing. For this reason, their religion 
stones are purple in the game.
•	 All characters in the game are taken from the novel. Some 
of them actually lived, but most are fictional. The religion 
stone that a character card brings into the game does not 
necessarily reflect that character’s religion for technical 
reasons.
Note: Individual game pieces (goods tiles, protection tiles, religion 
stones, and torches) should be available in sufficient quantities.
If for some reason still more are required, you can use any 
material as temporary replacements.

Overview of the Action Symbols
Important: If there are two symbols divided by a vertical line on a character card, only one of these symbols can be chosen.
The player receives one tile of the type of good depicted from 
the pile.
The player earns one advantage tile from the 
pile and places this tile face down. During a 
move, the player can use as many advantage 
tiles as desired, even during the same turn in 
which the player obtained them. The player reveals advantage tiles 
that show victory points only at the end of the game.
The player earns one goods tile of his or her 
choosing from the pile.
In the corresponding country (the country 
corresponding to the color of the ship), the 
player may sell one goods tile of each kind 
that is allowed to be sold there, as long as 
the player possesses a trading house in that 
country.
Example: In France (blue ship), the player 
may sell one book tile for four and/or one ore 
tile for two victory points.
Symbols Appearing Only on the Action Track
The player earns one goods tile of his or 
her choosing from the pile. Alternatively, 
the player may sell one goods tile in each 
country where that type of good can be 
sold (the colors of the ships), as long as 
the player possesses a trading house in 
each country in which they want to sell.
Example for the space with the cloth symbol: The player receives 
one cloth tile, or the player can sell one cloth tile for four victory points 
in England and/or for two victory points in Spain.
A player may place or remove one depicted religion 
stone in a country of his or her choosing. Both 
symbols are depicted on the character cards; in this 
case, the player must choose one religion stone to 
place or remove, not both.
The player may move to the next unoccupied 
space on the action track and execute the 
action.
The player may remove a character card from the game. 
This can be either a character card from the player’s own 
set (even the card with this very symbol) or a card lying 
face up on a deck. In that case, the next character card 
is drawn.
The player may place one neutral religion stone in a 
country of his or her choosing.
The player may rotate one die lying on one of 
his or her cards down or up by one number. 
This can be a die lying on one of the player’s 
character cards (even on the card with this very 
symbol), a religion card, or a Loch Leven card. If the player rotates 
a die lying on a character card, this does not mean the player may 
execute that character card’s action.
The player can sell exactly one goods tile of 
his or her choosing for three victory points, 
as long as the player possesses a trading 
house in one of the two countries where 
this type of good can be sold.
The player receives the victory points 
depicted. The player advances his or her disk 
along the victory point track upon earning 
points from character cards or the action track. A player receives 
the victory points from advantage tiles only at the end of the game.
The player earns one protection tile from the pile. 
In exchange for one protection tile, the player can 
neutralize the effect of a negative event for himself or 
herself. Other players will be affected by the event. 
Alternatively, during his or her turn a player can 
preempt the placement of a specific religion stone in a particular 
country by removing it from a character card (see page 9).
The player may remove the die from one of his or 
her cards. If the player removes a die lying on a 
character card or the Loch Leven card, then the 
player must place the die back with his or her free 
dice. If the player removes the die from the religion card, the player 
rolls it again immediately and selects a religion.
Note: Whenever a die is removed from a character card, this card is 
then removed from the game.

© 2017 Ken Follett
© 2017 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0 	 Web: kosmos.de
© 2017 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames & 
Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872 	
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK LP, 
Cranbrook, Kent, TN17 3HE 
Phone: 01580 212000 	
Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
	
Michael Rieneck, born in 1966, lives in northern Germany. A 
freelance game designer and writer, he passionately works on 
games of all kinds. Many of his games have already been pub-
lished by Kosmos. He is equally comfortable developing simple 
and fun games such as Nichtlustig or Mit List und Tücke (Brutal 
Kingdom) as he is with his greatest successes, the first two games 
based on Ken Follett’s Kingsbridge series, The Pillars of the Earth 
and World without End (together with Stefan Stadler). This time 
it was a special challenge for him: to develop a game at the same 
time the novel was being written.
The author and the publisher thank all test players and rule-
book reviewers.
Editing: Wolfgang Lüdtke
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Graphics: Fiore GmbH
English Text Editing: Ted McGuire 
Additional Design: Dan Freitas
692650-02-070617