“ADELE, open the bay door!”
“Sorry, Emma, I’m afraid I can’t do that…”
After many years or careful planning, the ﬁ rst manned expedition to Mars takes ﬂ ight. All humanity bids farewell to 
the Deimos, the ﬁ rst spacecraft of its generation, a whole new design equipped with the best systems technology 
can provide, including a super AI that supervises it all: an Advanced Device of Electronic-Living Engineering, most 
commonly  known as ADELE. A new era for humanity and their relationship with space has begun!
Just a few days after leaving Earth, peculiar incidents start to happen… Small things, to begin with: a system disconnected 
at an inopportune moment, a mistake in programming, nothing serious. It is when one of the crew members almost dies of 
asphyxiation while sleeping in her own room that they are forced to accept the hard truth: ADELE, the central AI, has become 
hostile. The race for survival starts. Can the crew disconnect the rogue AI? Or would it be best to escape the ship on a 
shuttle? What’s clear is that they need to be as subtle as possible or ADELE will ﬁ gure out their intentions.
Will they manage to survive or will they end up ﬂ oating in space, where no one can hear you scream?
A  G A M E  B Y
A L B E R T  R E Y E S
A R T  B Y
J O S É  S O T O
COMPONENTS
1 Main Board
1 Main Board
27 ADELE cards
27 ADELE cards
25 Event Cards
25 Event Cards
28 Cubes
28 Cubes
(7 of each color)
(7 of each color)
4 Astronaut 
4 Astronaut 
Meeples
Meeples
1d20 and 
1d20 and 
4d6
4d6
1 Energy 
1 Energy 
Cylinder
Cylinder
52 Hazard 
52 Hazard 
Tokens
Tokens
8 Inventory 
8 Inventory 
Disabled Tokens
Disabled Tokens
1 Turn 
1 Turn 
Marker
Marker
1 “No Return” 
1 “No Return” 
Marker
Marker
1 Cloth 
1 Cloth 
Bag
Bag
1 Rulebook + 2 Player aids
1 Rulebook + 2 Player aids
19 Mission
19 Mission
Tiles
Tiles
32 Object
32 Object
Tiles
Tiles
6 Anomaly
6 Anomaly
Tiles
Tiles
16 Charge 
16 Charge 
Tokens
Tokens
6 Hatch 
6 Hatch 
Closed 
Closed 
Tokens
Tokens
2 Alert 
2 Alert 
Terminal 
Terminal 
Tokens
Tokens
4 Impact 
4 Impact 
Tokens
Tokens
1 ADELE Console
1 ADELE Console
4 Crew Boards
4 Crew Boards
4 Crew Screens
4 Crew Screens
2
1.0 THE GAME: HOW TO WIN
In ADELE, all players (except one) will play the role of crew members who try to ﬁ nd the necessary items to complete one 
of the two possible missions: either disconnect ADELE or escape the ship. The remaining player will take the role of the 
rogue AI that tries to impede the other players’ mission.
Both missions require speciﬁ c objects to be delivered to speciﬁ c locations on the ship. The knowledge of where to deliver each 
object is fragmented among the crew members, so it is important they coordinate to ﬁ nd the objects and bring them to the 
appropriate locations, always trying to hide this information from ADELE. Every mission also requires a speciﬁ c condition to be 
met to succeed. If time runs out before completing one of the missions or one of the crew dies, ADELE wins.
2.0 SETUP
For a game with 3 to 5 players, follow these instructions (for 1 or 2 players, see 11.0):
Place the main board on the table, in a central position reachable for all players. You can choose either to play on 
the Deimos or on the Phobos.
Choose a player at random (or by consensus) to take the role of ADELE. This player gets the ADELE console (and 
must use the side of it that matches the number of players), the hazard tokens, the ADELE deck and her energy 
counter. This player (referred to as ADELE from now on) must choose 4 anomaly tiles at random and place them 
on their space on the console. Discard the rest of the anomaly tiles back into the box. Put all hazard tokens in the 
bag, draw 4 and place them in matching spaces on the console, as much to the left as possible. Finally, remove 
the 2 extra special cards (         ) , shufﬂ e the rest of the deck and draw 4 cards. and place the energy counter on its 
starting position. If you are an experienced player, instead of removing the extra cards, you may remove any 2 other 
special cards instead.
The remaining players take one Crew Board each (deal them out randomly or by consensus), along with the mat-
ching screen, dice and cubes. One cube should go on the leftmost square of the life track and 4 on the action zone.
The remaining cubes will be used to mark knowledge of certain mission locations, as explained later. Finally, each 
player takes the object printed on their board and places it there, face down.
2
1
2
3
9
9
4
6
6
6
1
2
2
2
2
RESOLUTION 
SPACE
      
2 0 SETUP
ADELE CHOSES 4 ANOMALY TILES AT RANDOM
AND PLACES THEM ON HER CONSOLE
ADELE DRAWS 4 HAZARD 
TOKENS FROM THE BAG AND 
PUTS THEM IN THE MATCHING 
SPACES ON HER CONSOLE, 
AS MUCH TO THE LEFTMOST 
AVAILABLE SPACES
ADELE’S CONSOLE
PLACE ALERT TERMINALS ON THE 
COMPUTERS IN LOCATIONS 3 AND 17
ADELE’S DECK
MAIN BOARD
EVENTS
DECK
Select 1 copy of each of the following objects: ﬁ re extinguisher, space suit, ﬂ ashlight, battery and tracking dro-
ne. Place those 5 objects face down on the box printed on the ship. Select the 7 mission objects, 2 copies of the 
object parts, 1 battery object and add 10 of the remaining objects, selected randomly and without looking at them. 
Shufﬂ e these 20 objects face down and then put one in each location on the ship, still face down. Return all remai-
ning objects, without looking at them, to the box.
For each crew member, roll the d20 and place their miniature on the matching location. Two players cannot start in 
the same place. If this happens, reroll the die until each player is in a different location.
Place the Alert Terminals on the computers in locations 3 and 17.
Place the turn marker on the space assigned for the number of players present. Place the “No Return” marker on space 1.
Shufﬂ e all Sector Mission tiles (except for the one 
marked X) face down and place one in each of the 
5 spaces on the Mission Track (one in the central 
space and one in each of the two spaces to the ri-
ght and left of that. The ones at each extreme have 
ﬁ xed locations already printed on the track). Then 
assign a cube from the designated player for each 
Mission tile, as indicated in this chart  >
Return all remaining Mission tiles to the box, except for the one marked X, without looking at them. 
Keep this last tile (with the X) near the Mission Track.
Prepare the Event Deck. In a 4- or 5-player game, remove the Silence event cards from the deck. Shufﬂ e the remai-
ning cards and place the resulting deck on its space on the board. Turn the ﬁ rst card face up.
Leave all remaining tokes near the board, for when they are needed.
4
3
4
4
5
7
7
8
8
8
8
8
8
5
6
7
8
9
10
R
K
PUT 1 SECTOR MISSION TILE IN 
EACH OF THE 5 SPACES ON THE 
MISSION TRACK
KEEP THE SECTOR MISSION TILE 
MARKED “X” NEAR THE MISSION 
TRACK
ASSIGN A CUBE FROM THE 
DESIGNATED PLAYER FOR EACH 
MISSION TILE, AS INDICATED IN THE 
CHART
EACH PLAYER TAKES THE 
OBJECT PRINTED ON THEIR 
BOARD AND PLACES IT 
HERE FACE DOWN
CREW SCREEN
“NO RETURN” MARKER
CREW BOARD
CREW DICE
CUBE ON THE 
LEFTMOST SQUARE 
OF THE LIFE TRACK
4 ACTION CUBES
PLACE THESE FIVE 
OBJECTS FACE DOWN 
ON THE BOX PRINTED  
ON THE SHIP
3
3
3
4
3.0 THE GAME TURN
The game is played over a ﬁ xed number of turns, depending on the number of players. On each turn, phases are played in this order:
EVENT PHASE. Place the ﬁ rst card from the event deck on the resolution space, covering the previous one, if any. 
This event will be active on this turn. Some produce an immediate effect, while others apply for the whole turn. Re-
member to turn the ﬁ rst card of the event deck face up, so everybody can see what will be the event for the next turn.
PLANNING PHASE. All crew members must cover their boards with their screens and then assign their 4 
action cubes to the various available actions.
ADELE PHASE. In this phase, ADELE manages her console and places hazards and anomalies on the 
board through these steps:
Draw as many hazard tokens as indicated on the console and place them on their matching 
spaces, starting with the least expensive (i.e. from left to right).
Play as many cards as desired, in any order, to place available hazard tokens on the board by 
expending the necessary energy. Anomalies can also be played as long as all costs are paid (see 
section 8.0 ADELE for details).
Discard as many cards as desired and then draw up 4 cards. Also, increase the available energy
by the amount indicated on the console.
RESOLUTION PHASE. The crew members remove the screens, showing the actions they have planned, 
and resolve the hazards affecting them.
ACTIONS PHASE. The crew members, in the order they desire, resolve the actions they have program-
med (one player has to resolve all their actions before another can start).
UPKEEP PHASE. Reduce the charge of all objects by one and remove all the tokens in the game that stay 
“until the end of the turn”. Move the turn marker one space down.
4.0 THE MISSIONS
In order to win, the crew members must accomplish one of the two possible missions, either deactivate ADELE (blue 
mission) or escape the ship (red mission). To succeed in either, they have to use 4 speciﬁ c objects in 4 speciﬁ c places
on the ship and also meet this condition:
IMPORTANT: As you can see on the Mission Track, the Retina Lens is common to both missions (it must be delivered, 
no matter the mission) and the locations where the last object of each mission must be delivered (the Helmet for the 
red mission and the Axe for the blue one) are ﬁ xed and printed on the track.
The location where the ﬁ rst 3 objects needed to complete each mission have to be delivered is secret, deﬁ ned by the 
Sector Mission Tile on its space. Beside each of those objects, there will be a cube that deﬁ nes which crew member 
knows this information. This player can look at this Sector Mission Tile at any time but cannot show it to anyone. If two 
crew members are, at any time, at the same location, both can allow the other to look at their Sector Mission Tiles but, 
once they split again, they should remember what they saw, as they cannot look at each other’s tiles until they meet again.
The ﬁ rst 3 objects in a mission can be activated in any order. To do this, a crew member carrying the object has to be 
successful on a special action (see actions, in section 7.0) in the correct location. If this happens, reveal the object and his 
matching Sector Mission Tile to prove the action was taken in the correct place. Leave the tile face up and return the object 
to the box. Objects from both missions can be successfully delivered, as both missions can be attempted at the same time.
The fourth object of each mission (the Axe in the blue mission and the Helmet in the red one) can only be delivered 
after the other 3 objects have been successfully delivered and the condition for this mission is met. If this happens, 
the crew members win. If, by the end of the turn numbered 1, this is not accomplished, ADELE wins the game.
1
2
3
DEACTIVATE ADELE
ESCAPE THE SHIP
There must be no impact 
token on the board
(see event Impact in 6.1 Events)
The turn marker cannot be beyond 
the “no return” marker.
It can be in the same space (see event Drift in 6.1 Events)
3 0 THE GAME TURN
4 0 THE MISSIONS
5
5.0 THE SHIPS
Both the Deimos and the Phobos are divided into 20 locations. Each one of these has a computer where special ac-
tions can be performed. There are 6 special locations on the ship that also have a terminal. Each of these terminals 
allows the crew to perform some very powerful actions that can only be performed there (see 10.0 Terminals). Also, 
some rooms have a hatch that can be used to go out into space (see 7.3 Moving outside the ship).
6.0 EVENT CARDS
On the ﬁ rst phase of each turn, the event on the top of the deck becomes active, unless it has been deactivated (see 
special actions in 7.0 The crew). If the event has an immediate effect, it is resolved now. If it creates a continuous 
effect, this effect is active until the end of the turn.
Some anomalies are triggered when certain icon appears on the event card (as described in 8.2 Anomalies)
6.1 THE EVENTS
EVASIVE MANEUVER
The ship lurches suddenly. All 
crew members must succeed on 
a Spirit roll or suffer a wound.
DRIFT
The ship drifts 
from its course. 
The “No Return” 
marker advances 
1 space up.
STRESS
The oppressive atmosphere is 
unbearable. All crew members 
modify their Spirit by -1 until the 
end of the turn.
MALWARE
 ADELE overchar-
ges the onboard 
computers. All spe-
cial actions require 
an extra action 
cube this turn.
IMPACT
Something hits the ship. Roll the d20 to determine the impacted location and place an impact 
token on it. Crew members in this location suffer 1 wound. The computer and terminal (if any) in 
this location cannot be used until the impact token is removed but the location is otherwise una-
ffected (it can be entered, objects there can be picked up, hazards can be placed, etc). A location 
cannot have 2 impact tokens (roll again if necessary).  
SILENCE
Nothing happens 
this turn (noti-
ce that certain 
anomalies can be 
triggered anyway).
5 0 THE SHIPS
6 0 EVENT CARDS
TERMINAL
TERMINAL
COMPUTER
HATCH
DOOR
FRAME
COMPUTER
6
7.0 THE CREW
Every crew member has their own board.
Every crew member can carry up to 4 objects and they already have one at the beginning of the game (as indicated on their 
board). If, at any time, a crew member is carrying more objects than their capacity (because they have picked one up or 
because they have received a wound and, because of this, reduced carrying capacity), they must discard all excess objects 
(player’s choice) in their current location, always face down.
All crew members have 6 spaces on their life track. Every time they suffer a wound, they must move the cube one space to 
the right. If a crew member suffers enough wounds to reach the last space of his life track, he dies and the whole crew 
loses the game.
The Spirit value is very important to avoid being wounded and to succeed on some actions. Every time a situation 
requires a Spirit roll, the player affected must roll his d6. If the result is equal to or less than his Spirit, the roll is 
a success and the crew member has managed to avoid the wound or succeed on his action. If the number rolled is 
higher, he has failed and must face the consequences.
Each crew member has 4 action cubes to distribute 
among the ﬁ ve possible actions during the planning 
phase each turn. It is important that players hide this 
planning with their screens to prevent ADELE from 
knowing their intentions.
All the actions (except for special actions) require 
1 action cube to be performed, but more cubes can 
be added to make the action more than once in the 
same turn or to counter some adverse effect (like the 
Malware event, for example). During the action phase, 
the active crew member performs each action by dis-
carding the corresponding action cube, until he runs 
out of cubes or no longer wants to use them (the use 
of the programmed cubes is never mandatory).
Crew members can play in any order they desire, but 
the active player must end their turn before another 
crew member can become the active player and take 
their own turn.
THE ALLOWED ACTIONS ARE:
SPECIAL ACTION: By using this action, you can achieve one of these things:
If you are in the correct location, deliver a mission object.
Activate the effect of a terminal (see 10.0 Terminals).
Discard a “Espionage”, “Hypoxia” or “Darkness” hazard token from this location or an adjacent one.
If the “Hatches Closed!” anomaly is in effect, unlock a hatch in this location or adjacent to 
the space section you are in.
If you are in a space section, remove an Impact token on an adjacent location.
The special action is a little different from the others. It cost you 3 action cubes to perform, but you may, as an option, try it for 
just 2. If you do, you must succeed on a Spirit roll to perform this action successfully. Usually, you will prefer to secure the 
action, but sometimes you need this extra cube for something or a hazard gives you no choice but to take the risk.
UNLOCK DOOR:
Discard a “Blocked 
Door” hazard token 
from a door at your 
location.
SEARCH: 
Take a look 
at an object 
in your 
location. 
You may 
move it to your inventory (this 
may cause you to have too 
many objects and force you to 
discard another).
ADVANCE: Move to an 
adjacent location as long 
as the door that connects 
to it is not blocked.
USE OBJECT: 
Flip a non-mis-
sion object you 
are carrying 
face up. From 
now until you 
are forced to discard it, this 
object gives you the advantages 
listed in the object chart (see 9.0 
Objects).
7 0 THE CREW
SPIRIT
CHARACTER
ABILITY
4 ACTION
CUBES
ACTION CUBES 
REQUIRED 
ACTION
SPACES
LIFE TRACK
INVENTORY
STARTING OBJECT
7
7.1 WOUNDS
Some elements of the game can cause wounds to the crew members, like events, hazards and anoma-
lies played by ADELE. If you suffer a wound, move your marker on the life track one space to the right.
At a certain point, wounded crew members start losing carrying capacity.
To reﬂ ect this, put a token on one of the spaces for objects in the 
personal board to mark that this particular space is unavailable.
If the cube marker on the life track reaches the last space, the crew member 
dies and ADELE wins the game. By using the First Aid Kit or the terminal in the 
inﬁ rmary, crew members can recover from wounds. To reﬂ ect this, just move 
the marker on the life track as many spaces back to the left as needed. You 
cannot heal more than what the life track shows. When you recover wounds, it 
is very possible that you will also recover some carrying capacity. Remember to 
remove the tokens from the object spaces to reﬂ ect this.
Note that there is a way to die without suffering wounds: if you are outside of the ship 
and you are forced to discard your active space suit (see 7.3 Moving outside the ship).
7.2 COMMUNICATION BETWEEN PLAYERS
Crew members can talk as much as they want about the game, but they have to do it loud enough for everybody to 
hear, ADELE included.
Two crew members in the same location can allow each other to secretly look at the tiles they know on the Mission 
Track, show the other player the objects they carry and exchange them without restriction. It seems like a good idea 
for crew members to try to meet during the game to share as much information as possible between them.
However, those two crew members cannot talk secretly, show anything to non-present crew members or show each 
other sector mission tiles known from the other crew members, even if their content has been revealed to them on a 
previous meeting.
7.3 MOVING OUTSIDE THE SHIP
A crew member with an active space suit can use an advance action to go through a hatch and move to the outside of 
the ship. The exterior is divided into 4 sections. Some hatches allow movement to two different sections, while others 
only have access to one of them. Once in space, the crew member can use another advance action to reenter the 
ship via an adjacent hatch or to move to an adjacent section of space. They can keep moving and taking actions (like 
removing impact tokens from adjacent locations) as long as the space suit remains active. If, for any reason, the suit is 
discarded while the crew member is still on a space section, they die and ADELE wins the game automatically.
If the “Hatches Closed!” anomaly is active, all hatches are blocked and a special action is needed to remove the block 
token and allow movement through it. This can be done in the same location as the hatch or from the outside, from an 
adjacent section of space.
IF THE CUBE MARKER REACHES 
THESE SPACES, THE CHARACTER 
LOSES ONE SPACE FOR CARRYING 
AN OBJECT IN HIS INVENTORY
IF THE CUBE MARKER REACHES 
THIS SPACE, THE CREW MEMBER 
DIES AND ADELE WINS THE GAME
THE BLUE PLAYER, 
WEARING A SPACE 
SUIT, CAN USE AN 
ADVANCE ACTION 
TO MOVE INTO 
ONE OF THE TWO 
ADJACENT SPACE 
AREAS. HE CAN 
THEN KEEP MOVING 
TO A NEW AREA OR 
BACK TO THE SHIP 
THROUGH A HATCH
THROUGH SOME 
HATCHES, YOU 
MAY MOVE INTO 2 
DIFERENT SPACE 
ZONES
HATCHES BLOCKED 
BY THE HATCHES 
CLOSED! ANOMALY 
CAN ALSO BE 
UNLOCKED FROM 
THE OUTSIDE
8
8.0 ADELE
ADELE is not represented on the board but rather controls all ship systems from above. Unfortunately for her agenda, in order 
to harm the crew members she must ﬁ ght her programming and, because of this, she can only divert a limited amount of 
energy and resources to her actions.
In every turn, ADELE gains a set amount of energy, hazard tokens and cards.
· Energy is needed to pay for all the actions she performs, be they placing hazards, activating anomalies or playing special cards.
· The hazard tokens are the different ways ADELE has to mess with the crew members. When ADELE gets new tokens, she 
must place them in matching spaces on her console, always the leftmost possible, i.e. the cheapest positions. However, 
when ADELE places a token on the board, she must always use the most expensive of its kind, i.e. the rightmost one.
· The cards indicate which parts of the ship ADELE can affect. Besides some special cards, most of them show 2 speciﬁ c 
locations, identiﬁ ed by a number (and, to some degree, by the color). By playing one of these cards, ADELE may pay the 
indicated amount of energy to place a hazard token from her console (remember, always the most expensive of its kind) on 
one of the two locations shown on the card.
ADELE may play as many cards as she likes/can in the same turn, always limited by the energy she has and the hazard 
tokens available. Some cards produce special actions that don’t necessarily place hazards on the board. Also, ADELE can 
activate anomalies as part of her turn, as explained in 8.2 Anomalies.
Remember that, when she is done playing actions, ADELE may discard as many cards as she wants before drawing back to 
4 cards. If there are no cards left in the ADELE deck, shufﬂ e the discard pile to generate a new deck.
8.1 HAZARDS
To place a hazard on the board, ADELE must ﬁ rst have 
the token on her console, play a card showing the 
location she intends to play it on, and pay the energy 
cost listed on the console. Most hazards are just pla-
ced on the indicated location, but others, like the “Bloc-
ked Door” or the “Computer Failure” must be placed in 
a more speciﬁ c spot, as indicated in their descriptions.
Regardless, ADELE cannot place 2 identical hazards in 
the same place (such as 2 “Hypoxia” in the same room, 
2 “Blocked Door” on the same door frame or 2 “Compu-
ter Failure” on the same computer or terminal). 
8 0 ADELE
ADELE PLAYS A CARD WITH LOCATIONS 1/6 TO
PLACE AN ESPIONAGE TOKEN ON LOCATION 1.
TO DO SO, ADELE MUST USE THE RIGHTMOST
TOKEN AVAILABLE IN HER CONSOLE AND SPEND
THE REQUIRED ENERGY (3 IN THIS CASE).
ENERGY
TRACK
HAZARD
COSTS 
ADELE’S
DECK
ANOMALY
SPACES
HAZARD 
SPACES
ADELE PHASE
ADELE PHASE
REMINDER
REMINDER
9
ESPIONAGE: Play this hazard on the designated room. ADELE can secretly look at all the objects in this 
room at any time. When a crew member enters or starts their turn in this room, ADELE can look at all their 
carried objects and also attempt to discover one of the Sector Mission Tiles this crew member knows
(the ones with a cube of this player’s color beside them). To do so, ADELE takes both the tile she wants to 
discover and the one marked with an X, shufﬂ es them face down and secretly takes a look at one of them. 
Afterwards, she shufﬂ es them again and gives them to the player she’s spying on to place them back in 
their places (so there’s a 50% chance that ADELE has seen the correct tile, but only she knows).
BLOCKED DOOR: Put this hazard on a door frame in the 
designated room. No one can move through the 
door until this hazard is removed.
FIRE: Put this hazard in the designated room. All crew 
members entering this room or starting their turn in it 
must succeed on a Spirit roll or suffer 1 wound.
HYPOXIA: Put this hazard in the designated room. All crew 
members entering this room or starting their turn in it must 
discard one of their unused action cubes, if they have any.
DARKNESS: Put this hazard in the designated room. All actions performed in this room, including leaving 
the room, have an extra cost of discarding an action cube. This cube can come from any programmed 
action but, if the cube is not discarded, the action cannot be performed. If there is also a Fire hazard in the 
same room, this hazard has no effect.
COMPUTER FAILURE: Play this hazard on a computer or a terminal to disable it. When a computer is disa-
bled this way, mission objects cannot be delivered in this room, no hazard tokens can be removed from this 
computer and the hatch in this room cannot be unlocked. When a terminal is disabled this way, its 
special action cannot be performed.
8.2 ANOMALIES
At the start of the game, ADELE should randomly choose 4 anomaly tiles and place them in the reserved space on her 
console, showing the reverse. These are the anomalies ADELE has available during this game. To activate any of the-
se anomalies, ADELE must discard 1 hazard from each of the sectors shown on the back of the tile and pay 5 energy. 
The type of the hazard doesn’t matter as long as it is in a location of the correct color. Blocked Door hazards on a door 
frame that connects rooms of different colors can be used as either. Remove all discarded hazards from the game. 
When an anomaly is activated, ﬂ ip it face up and move it to its space on the main board, to show that it is active from 
now on. Every anomaly affects the game in its own way, as explained below:
HATCHES CLOSED!
Place a “Hatch 
Blocked” token 
on each hatch. 
This token must 
be removed with a 
successful special 
action to make mo-
vement throu-
gh a hatch 
possible.
LOW BATTERIES: 
All objects with 
charges get 1 
less charge when 
activated.
DEACTIVATED 
TERMINALS:
The Alert Termi-
nals become disa-
bled as if they both 
had a “Computer 
Failure” hazard on 
them. Turn both 
counters to the red 
side to indicate 
that.
EXPLOSIONS: 
All Spirit rolls to 
avoid getting a 
wound from a 
“Fire” hazard get 
a penalty of -2 to 
the Spirit value. 
In any case, a roll 
of 1 is always a 
success.
PANIC: Once this 
anomaly becomes 
active, every time 
an event shows 
this anomaly icon, 
all crew members 
must make a Spirit 
roll to avoid suffe-
ring a wound. This 
anomaly triggers 
even if the event is 
canceled.
SELECTIVE
ATTACK: Once 
active, in every 
event phase, 
ADELE may play 1 
hazard in a loca-
tion of the color 
shown on the HEX 
of the event card. 
All costs, save for 
playing a card, 
must be met.
DOOR 
DOOR 
FRAME
FRAME
BLOCKED
BLOCKED
THIS TERMINAL IS DISABLED BY A 
THIS TERMINAL IS DISABLED BY A 
“COMPUTER FAILURE” HAZARD
“COMPUTER FAILURE” HAZARD
DOOR FRAME
DOOR FRAME
1
2
2
1
10
9.0 OBJECTS
At the start of the game, all objects in play may be in any of these 3 possible locations: in the possession of a crew 
member, one in each location on the board, and 5 stacked in the laboratory. Unless an object is active, it should re-
main face-down at all times.
Using the Search action, a crew member can look at an object in a room and, if they so wish, move it to a space 
in their inventory, on their personal board. This may result in exceeding their carrying capacity and, consequent-
ly, force them to drop another object. Suffering wounds may be another reason to be forced to drop an object.
 9.1 TYPES OF OBJECTS
There are basically two kinds of objects: mission objects and utility objects.
MISSION OBJECTS provide no special advantages but are the key to winning the game. A crew member may 
perform a special action, if they carry a mission object and are in the correct location (and the computer is not 
disabled), to deliver the object. If the action is successful, turn the Sector Mission Tile face up to prove you are in 
the correct room. Discard the object and leave the tile face up to show that this object has been delivered.
NOTE: If the location is not correct, turn the tile down again and keep the object in your inventory.
OBJECTS WITH CHARGE: when you use the Ac-
tivate Object action on an object with charges, 
turn it face up and then roll your
d6 to determine the number of charges it has >
Place a charge counter on the object to reﬂ ect this. From this moment on, this object is considered active and will provide 
its carrier with certain special advantages, as listed on the Object Chart. Remove a charge from each active object on each 
upkeep phase. If there’s no charge token left to remove, the object is discarded instead. Please, take note that the object is 
not discarded along with the last charge, but the next turn, when there’s no more charges to discard.  
ONE-USE OBJECTS: When you activate one of these objects, turn it face up, perform the associated action 
and then discard it (unless the object description says otherwise).
PERMANENT OBJECTS: Objects of this kind also need to be activated with an action to become active but, 
unlike the others, they stay in the inventory providing their advantages to the crew member carrying them.
IMPORTANT: When an object is active and is discarded, it doesn’t go to the location but is removed from play instead. 
If players exchange active objects, the charges remain on the object.
9.2 CREATE OBJECTS
There’s a space in the laboratory that contains 5 objects at the start of the game. These objects can be created by two 
possible ways:
By assembling 2 objects named “parts”, a crew member can secretly choose an object from the pile and put it in 
their inventory. They must perform the Use Object action to achieve this but they can do it anywhere on the ship 
(they only need one action although they’re technically using 2 objects).
By successfully using the Engineering Terminal (see 10.0 Terminals) in the laboratory, a crew member can look at 
the remaining objects in the pile, secretly choose one and place it in their inventory.  
1
2
9 0 OBJECTS
1
2
11
10.0 TERMINALS
Besides the computer in each of the 20 rooms of the Deimos and the Phobos, 6 rooms also contain terminals that allow 
the crew members to perform powerful special actions.
ALERT TERMINALS: These are a special kind of terminal because they aren’t located in a speciﬁ c 
room but rather move from one computer to another when activated. When a crew member does 
so successfully, turn over the event card on top of the deck and roll the d20 to determine the new 
location for that terminal (if the result puts it in the same room as the other Alert Terminal, reroll). 
Next turn, in the events phase, this turned-over event will not take place and none of its effects 
will be applied (but anomalies associated with the card can still be triggered). Keep in mind that, 
unlike the other terminals, these work on the location’s computer and are therefore disabled by a “Computer Failu-
re” hazard. Also, the “Deactivated Terminals” anomaly will render the computers these terminals are on useless until 
repaired by normal means (like the use of a Battery or the Central Computer Terminal). 
MEDICAL
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, a crew 
member can heal 
all wounds affec-
ting themselves 
or another crew 
member in this 
location.
COURIER
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, a crew 
member can give 
one of their objects 
to another crew 
member located 
anywhere in the 
ship or get one 
object from them, if 
both players agree.
COMMAND
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, the 
“No Return” 
marker retreats 
one space down, 
but never below 
turn 1.
ENGINEERING 
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, a crew 
member can 
create an object 
as explained 
in 9.2 Create 
Objects.
REPAIRING
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, a crew 
member can 
remove an Im-
pact token from 
anywhere on the 
ship.
CENTRAL
COMPUTER
TERMINAL
By successfully 
activating this 
terminal, a crew 
member can 
remove a “Com-
puter Failure” 
hazard from any 
computer or 
terminal.
repaired by normal means (like the use of a Battery or the
y
Central Computer Terminal).l)l
10 0 TERMINALS
12
11.0 SOLO AND TWO-PLAYER GAMES
In both these versions of the game, a lone crew member will face ADELE, the AI being either controlled by the second 
player or acting automatically. In both situations, the setup of the game varies slightly:
· Place the Blue Card on its space on the Mission Track. This object is considered already 
delivered.
· The crew member player gets a copy of the tracking drone object (discard all 
other copies from play). This drone starts the game activated, doesn’t take up a 
space in the inventory and never runs out of charges (is never discarded).
· Remove an Impact event card from the event deck.
· Don’t place cubes on the Mission Track. The crew member can inspect all of 
the sector tiles at any time.
In addition to the changes to the setup, the Courier Terminal works a little different: by activating it, the 
crew member can send any object in his inventory to a location of his choosing.
11.1 TWO-PLAYER GAME
In addition to the changes above, also apply the following changes:
· ADELE’s maximum hand size is 3 (draw only 3 cards on the setup)
· Besides his initial object, the crew member can choose any non-mission object as an extra starting object. If it’s your 
ﬁ rst try, we recomend you the Stimulants.
11.2 SOLITAIRE GAME
In addition to the changes mentioned, apply the following extra rules:
· Remove the “Espionage” hazards from the hazard bag. Also, remove all the special cards from the ADELE’s deck.
· Select the following anomalies: Hatches Closed!, Explosions, Low Batteries, Panic and Deactivated Terminals.
Choose 2, 3 or 4 of these randomly, depending on the difﬁ culty desired, and place them face down on their spaces on 
the board, in the same order drawn. They all start inactive (face down) and produce no effect on the game until activa-
ted. This activation occurs in the ADELE phase on the turn indicated in this chart:
· Place a cube of the crew member’s colour in the indicated spaces on the turn track as a reminder. Every time you 
reach one cube, remove it and ﬂ ip the next anomaly who then becomes active.
NOTE: If you want it more challenging, don’t choose the anomaly until it has to enter the game. This way, you will not 
know what’s coming!!
· ADELE’s turn is replaced by this procedure: Draw 1 card and 2 hazard tokens. Place the hazards on the indicated 
locations, in the  order they were drawn. If the placement of a hazard conﬂ icts with the normal placement rules, the 
hazard is discarded instead. When a “Blocked Door” hazard has to be placed, always choose the door frame closest 
to the player (or at random if it’s in the same location). If a “Computer Failure” has to be placed on a location, it will 
always target a terminal, if present and active.
Designer · Albert Reyes
Art · Jose Soto
Graphic Design · Dossom Studio
Development ·  Pau Carles & Javi Caparrós
www.dmzgames.es
d
EASY
MEDIUM
HARD
1ST ANOMALY
3RD ANOMALY
2ND ANOMALY
4TH ANOMALY
TURN 12
TURN 15
TURN 15
TURN 6
TURN 10
TURN 12
-
TURN 5
TURN 9
`
`
TURN 6
I
