R U L E S O F P L AY
© 2013, 2015 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2. Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3. Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4. Special Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8
5. Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	9
6. Propaganda Rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10	
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
by Brian Train and Volko Ruhnke
2nd Printing
7. Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	11
8. Non-Player Factions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
Key Terms Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	16
Counter scans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	18
Set Up & Available Forces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Scenarios. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	20	
	
COIN Series, Volume III

Mountain Province
City
Line of Communication (LoC, 
a Road)
Plains Province
Pashtun Space
Base Holding area
Control and Support/Opposi­
tion marker boxes
Economic Value
Town
Population
Country Border
Pakistan Province
1.0 INTRODUCTION
A Distant Plain is a 1- to 4-player board game depicting insurgent 
and counterinsurgent (COIN) conflict in modern Afghanistan. Each 
player takes the role of a Faction seeking to guide Afghan affairs: 
the international Coalition, the Afghan Government, the Islamist 
Taliban, or narco-trafficking Warlords. Using military, political, 
and economic actions and exploiting various events, players build 
and maneuver forces to influence or control the population, extract 
resources, or otherwise achieve their Faction’s aims. A deck of 
cards regulates turn order, events, victory checks, and other pro­
cesses. The rules can run non-player Factions, enabling solitaire, 
2-player, or multi-player games.
A Distant Plain is a volume in the COIN Series of games that 
use similar rules to cover a variety of insurgencies. Volume I was 
Andean Abyss, set in Colombia. The Playbook lists major rules 
differences from Andean Abyss.
This rule book lists and defines key game terms in an index on 
pages 16-17. The most important game functions are summarized 
on several aid sheets. Game set up is explained on pages 19-20 
of this rule book. 
1.1 General Course of Play
A Distant Plain—unlike many card-assisted war games—does not 
use hands of cards. Instead, cards are played from the deck one 
at time, with one card ahead revealed to all players. Each Event 
card shows the order in which the Factions become Eligible to 
choose between the card’s Event or one of a menu of Operations 
and Special Activities. Executing an Event or Operation carries 
the penalty of rendering that Faction Ineligible to do so on the next 
card. Propaganda cards mixed in with the Event cards provide 
periodic opportunities for instant wins and for activities such as 
collecting resources and influencing popular sympathies.
1.2 Components
A complete set of A Distant Plain includes:
•	 A 22”x34” mounted game board (1.3).
•	 A deck of 78 cards (5.0).
•	 158 medium and light blue, tan, black, and green wooden forces 
pieces, some embossed (1.4; see “Available Forces” on page 19 
for a complete listing).
•	 7 embossed cylinders (1.8, 2.2).
•	 6 red and 6 white pawns (3.1.1).
•	 A sheet of markers.
•	 A Sequence of Play sheet (2.0, 6.0).
•	 4 Faction player aid foldouts (3.0, 4.0, 7.0).
•	 A Non-player aid foldout (8.0).
•	 A Random Spaces sheet (8.2).
•	 3 6-sided dice—1 tan, 1 black, 1 green.
•	 A background play book.
•	 This rule book.
1.3 The Map
The map shows the country of Afghanistan divided into various types 
of spaces, as well as parts of neighboring countries. 
1.3.1 Map Spaces. Map spaces include rural Provinces, the City of 
Kabul, and roadways called Lines of Communication (LoCs). All 
spaces—including LoCs—can hold forces. 
1.3.2 Provinces. Each Province shows a Population value (Pop) 
of 0, 1, or 2 that affects victory via Support for or Opposition to 
the Government (1.6) or Control (1.7) and some Insurgent actions. 
The Govern activity (4.3.1) can increase Population. Provinces are 
further distinguished as Mountain or Plains, affecting Government 

Event Reminder Markers
(5.4)
Control Markers
Use to mark Control of Cities and 
Provinces
Assault (3.2.4) and Events (5.0), or Pakistan (1.3.5), affecting Stack­
ing (1.4.2). Several are of Pashtun ethnicity, affecting Events and 
Insurgent Operations.
1.3.3 City. The City of Kabul shows Pashtun ethnicity and a Popu­
lation value of 3.
NOTE: Each Population value represents about a million Afghans. 
1.3.4 LoCs. Each Line of Communication (LoC) shows an Eco­
nomic value (Econ) of 1 to 4 that affects Government Resources 
(1.8) and the Taliban Extort activity (4.3.1). LoCs are never Pashtun 
(1.3.2-.3). 
 1.3.5 Foreign Countries. The map includes parts of Pakistan, Iran, 
and several Central Asian republics. Only Pakistan has playable 
spaces (1.3.1). They are three Provinces where only Taliban forces 
may stack (1.4.2). 
1.3.6 Adjacency. Adjacency affects the movement of forces and 
implementation of certain Events. Any 2 spaces meeting one of the 
following conditions are adjacent:
•	 Spaces that border on (touch) one another.
•	 Provinces separated by LoCs.
•	 LoCs or Provinces separated by Towns.
NOTE: Towns are not spaces; they merely terminate LoCs. 
ADJACENCY EXAMPLE: Faryab Province and the LoC ending 
at the town of Shibirghan are adjacent, as are the Provinces north 
and south of the LoC.
1.4 Forces
The wooden pieces represent the Factions’ various forces: Coalition 
Troops (tan cubes), Government Troops (medium-blue cubes) and 
Use on the Edge Track:
Victory-related and Aid markers
Cubes:
Guerrillas:
Warlord
Guerrillas:
Bases:
Coalition
TYPES OF FORCES
Capabilities markers
Coalition / Taliban 
Terror
(3.3.4)
Sabotage
(3.3.4)
Use on the 
Propaganda Track
Islamabad
Posture
Patronage
Marker
Deception
(Optional Rule)
Markers
Police (light-blue cubes), Insurgent Guerrillas, and all Factions’ 
Bases. 
DESIGN NOTE: Bases represent training and bivouac facilities, 
political administration, and, for the Insurgents, poppy fields.
PLAY NOTE: Use “Overflow” boxes for pieces that exceed the room 
in a space on the map; place the lettered marker in that space.
1.4.1 Availability and Removal. The inventory shown on the 
“Available Forces” chart on page 19 of this rule book limits the 
number of pieces that may be in play. Keep forces not on the map 
in the Available Forces boxes. (Place Taliban and Warlord Bases in 
the highest- and Coalition in the lowest-numbered empty spaces, 
revealing the number of on-map Bases and Available Coalition pieces 
to help track Resource earnings, 6.2, and victory, 7.0.) NOTE: See 
also Casualties (3.3.3, 6.6).
•	 Forces may only be placed from or replaced with those in the 
Available boxes—ignore any instructions to place forces if the 
appropriate type is not available (remove rather than replace such 
pieces). EXCEPTIONS: Taliban in Pakistan (1.4.2); Training 
(3.2.1). 
•	 Important: Taliban and Warlord players (only), while executing 
an Operation, Special Activity, or Event, may remove their 
own pieces to Available Forces. EXAMPLE: Insurgents without 
Available Guerrillas could remove Guerrillas during a Rally 
(3.3.1) in order to place them Underground. 
Government
Government
Police
Population
Returnees (4.3)
Overflow
Marker (1.4)
Support and Opposition 
Markers (1.6.2)
Underground
Active
Underground
Active
Coalition
Govern­
ment
Warlords

•	 Once an enemy Faction is targeted, removal or Activation of 
pieces to the extent of the executing Faction’s ability is required. 
EXAMPLE: A Coalition Assault (3.2.4) with 3 Troops must 
remove 3 Active pieces if there are that many among the Factions 
targeted. 
1.4.2 Stacking. No more than 2 Bases (regardless of Faction) may 
occupy a single Province or Kabul. Bases may not occupy LoCs. 
Only Taliban forces may occupy spaces in Pakistan (1.3.5). 
•	 Ignore any instructions (such as from Operations or Events) to 
place or move forces if stacking would be violated. Instruction to 
replace an enemy piece never affects Taliban in Pakistan (1.3.5, 
1.4.1). 
1.4.3 Underground/Active. Guerrillas are either 
Underground—symbol end down—or Active—
symbol end up. Certain actions and Events flip them 
from one to the other state. Bases, Troops, and 
Police are always Active. Always set up and place new Guerrillas 
Underground (including if replacing a piece).
NOTE: Unless instructions specify “Underground” Guerrilla, 
it is sufficient to “Activate” already Active Guerrillas (they stay 
Active).
1.5 Players & Factions
A Distant Plain is playable by 1, 2, 3, or 4 players. The 1st player 
plays the Coalition (tan) or the Taliban (black), the 2nd the other, the 
3rd the Government (blue), and the 4th the Warlords (green) (2.1). 
Coalition and Government are Counterinsurgent (COIN) Factions; 
Taliban and Warlords are Insurgents. Insurgent Factions are enemy 
to all others. Leftover Factions are Non-Players governed by rules 
section 8. 
No Non-Player Option: If learning the game with 2 or 3 play­
ers, ignore the Non-Player rules (8.0). Instead, players control 
leftover Factions:
•	 With 3 players, Coalition controls Warlords.
•	 With 2 players, Coalition controls Government or, if pre­
ferred, Warlords; Taliban controls the remaining Faction.
Play only stops on a victory check (6.1) if all of a player’s Fac­
tions are meeting their conditions.
After a final Propaganda, use the lowest victory margin of each 
player’s Factions (7.3). Players may not voluntarily transfer 
(1.5.1) between their own Factions.
1.5.1 Negotiation. Players may make any mutual arrangements 
within the rules. All negotiations are open. The rules do not bind 
players to agreements.
•	 Factions other than the Coalition may voluntarily transfer 
Resources (1.8) to others at any time that the giving or receiving 
Faction is executing an Operation, Special Activity, or Event. 
•	 The Government may voluntarily transfer Patronage to Warlord 
Resources, 1 for 1, when either Faction is executing an Operation, 
Special Activity, or Event. 
DESIGN NOTE: Kabul traditionally governed via patronage to 
local leaders.
1.6 Support and Opposition 
Support and Opposition affect victory and some operations and 
activities. 
1.6.1 Kabul and Afghan Provinces with at least 1 Population (1.3.2) 
always show 1 of 3 levels of its populace’s Support for or Opposition 
to Afghanistan’s central government that can shift during play: 
•	 Support.
•	 Neutral.
•	 Opposition.
1.6.2 Show Support or Opposition with markers 
placed in Kabul or each such Province. Show 
Neutral spaces by the absence of such markers. 
NOTE: LoCs (1.3.4) and Provinces with 0 Population or in Pakistan 
(1.3.5) never have Support or Opposition (they are always Neutral). 
If a 0 Population Province receives a +1 Pop marker (4.3.1), it 
becomes a 1 Pop Province in all respects.
1.7 Control
Either the two Counter-insurgent (COIN) 
Factions together (Coalition and Govern­
ment) or the Taliban alone Control a Prov­
ince or Kabul if their pieces there exceed 
those of all other Factions combined. If neither COIN nor Taliban 
Controlled, the space is uncontrolled. Control affects certain Faction 
activities and victory. Adjust Control markers as Control changes 
due to Operations (3.0), Special Activities (4.0), Events (5.0), vol­
untary force removal (1.4.1), or the Propaganda Round (6.0). 
1.8 Resources, Aid, and Patronage
At any moment, each Faction except the 
Coalition has between 0 and 75 Resourc­
es that it uses to pay for Operations (3.0). 
During Propaganda Rounds (6.3.1) and 
some Events, a level of Aid (between 0 
and 75) adds to Government Resources. A level of Patronage (0 to 
40) adds to Government victory (7.0). Mark Resources, Aid, and 
Patronage on the edge track—for Resources, with a cylinder of the 
Faction’s color (1.5). 
DESIGN NOTE: Patronage represents wherewithal of government 
officials to reward their friends, sometimes by diverting foreign aid, 
a means of governance often viewed in the West as corrupt.
1.9 Victory Markers
Similarly track with markers on the edge track the fol­
lowing totals that affect victory (7.0).
•	 Total Population in Support (1.6) plus the number of 
Coalition pieces Available (1.4.1).
•	 Total Population in Opposition (1.6) plus the number 
of Taliban Bases on the map.
•	 Total Population Controlled by the COIN Factions 
(1.7) plus Patronage (1.8).
•	 Total Uncontrolled Afghan Population (1.7).
PLAY NOTE: With many Uncontrolled spaces, it can be 
easiest to find Uncontrolled Population by subtracting 

OPTIONS FOR 2ND ELIGIBLE: If the 2nd Eligible Faction does 
not Pass (2.3.3), it also may execute an Operation or possibly the 
Event, but its options depend on what the 1st Eligible Faction 
executed:
• Op Only: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an Operation, the 
2nd Eligible Faction may execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5). 
• Op & Special Activity: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an 
Operation with a Special Activity, the 2nd Eligible Faction may 
execute a Limited Operation or instead execute the Event . 
• Event: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event, the 2nd 
Eligible Faction may execute an Operation, with a Special Activity 
if desired. 
NOTE: The game board and Sequence of Play aid sheet also show 
these options.
2.3.5 Limited Operation. A Limited Operation is a player Operation 
in just 1 space, with no Special Activity. If the Limited Operation 
is a Patrol (3.2.2), Sweep (3.2.3), or March (3.3.2), it can involve 
pieces from multiple spaces but only 1 destination space. A Limited 
Operation counts as an Operation. See also Final Event Card (2.3.8), 
Islamabad Sponsorship (6.6.1), and Non-player Operations (8.1).
2.3.6 Adjust Eligibility. After the 1st and 2nd Eligible Factions 
complete all execution of Operations, Special Activities, and Events 
(or after all Eligible Factions instead have Passed), adjust cylinders 
on the Sequence of Play track as follows:
•	 Any Faction that did not execute an Operation or Event (and was 
not rendered Ineligible by an Event) to the “Eligible” box.
•	 Any Faction that executed an Operation (including a Limited 
Operation) or Event to the “Ineligible” box (unless otherwise 
specified by the Event; see also Free Operations, 3.1.2). 
2.3.7 Next Card. After adjusting Eligibility, move the draw deck’s 
top card onto the played card pile face-up and reveal the draw deck’s 
next card. Play that card, proceeding with the appropriate sequence.
Sudden Propaganda Option: For less foreknowledge, if all 
players agree at Setup (2.1), whenever the next card is revealed 
as Propaganda, instead switch the places of the 2 showing 
cards and conduct an immediate Propaganda Round (6.0). The 
switched Event card will be the first card of the next Campaign 
(unless the game ends that Round). Ignore rule 2.3.8 below 
regarding the Final Event Card.
2.3.8 Final Event Card. On the last Event card before the final 
Propaganda Card (2.4.1), any player Operations must be Limited 
(2.3.5, no Special Activities) and may not include Sweep (3.2.3) or 
March (3.3.2).
COIN- and Taliban-Controlled Population from the total Afghan 
Population of 25 (or higher total from any add “+1 Pop” markers 
[4.3.1]).
NOTE: The 12 “Deception” markers are for a victo­
ry-related optional rule (7.3).
2.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
2.1 Set Up
Follow the instructions on pages 19 to 20 of this rule book to choose 
a scenario and various play options, assign Factions to players, 
prepare the deck, and set up markers and forces. 
2.2 Start 
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile. Then reveal the next card on top of the 
draw deck. The card on the played card stack is played first; the card 
on top of the draw deck will be played next. NOTE: Players will see 
1 card ahead into the deck (2.3.7). All played cards and the number 
of cards in the draw deck are open to inspection.
RECORD STEPS: As the steps of each Event card play are complet­
ed, place a cylinder of the Faction’s color (1.5) into the Sequence 
of Play track’s appropriate box (or, for Propaganda Rounds [6.0], 
advance the Prop Card marker). 
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, up to 2 Factions will execute Opera­
tions or the Event; other Factions may Pass and collect Resources.
•	 Factions whose cylinder is in the “Eligible” box receive these 
options in the left-to-right order of Faction symbols shown at top 
of the card. 
•	 Factions with cylinders in the “Ineligible” box do nothing. 
2.3.1 Eligibility. Factions that did not execute an Operation or Event 
on the previous card are Eligible (their cylinders will start the card 
in the “Eligible” box per 2.3.7). Factions that did are Ineligible. (All 
Factions start the game Eligible.) See also Free Operations, 3.1.2.
2.3.2 Faction Order. The Eligible Faction with the leftmost symbol 
in its color (skipping any Ineligible Factions) is the 1st Eligible to 
execute an Operation or Event or to Pass. The next leftmost is the 
2nd Eligible. NOTE: Gray halos around some Faction symbols 
relate only to Non-player instructions (8.4.1).
2.3.3 Passing. If a 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction opts to Pass, it remains 
Eligible for the next card and receives +1 Resource if an Insurgent 
Faction or provides +3 Resources to the Government if either COIN 
Faction. The next leftmost Eligible Faction then replaces the Passing 
Faction as the new 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction and receives the same 
options to execute or Pass. If the last (rightmost) Eligible Faction 
Passes, adjust cylinders (2.3.7) and play the next card.
2.3.4 Options for Eligible Factions. 
FIRST ELIGIBLE: If the 1st Eligible Faction does not Pass (2.3.3), 
it may execute either:
•	 An Operation (3.0)—with or without a Special Activity (4.0)—
or
•	 The Event shown on the card. 
Faction 
Order

2.4 Propaganda Card
If playing a Propaganda Card, conduct a Propaganda 
Round (see 6.0), marking each phase on the Sequence 
of Play with the “Prop Card” marker.
2.4.1 Final Propaganda. If the last Propaganda 
card’s Round is completed without a victory (6.1), the game ends: 
determine victory by 7.3. 
PLAY NOTE: Set aside Propaganda cards to show how many have 
gone by. Each series of Event cards up to a Propaganda Round is 
called a “Campaign”.
3.0 OPERATIONS
3.1 Operations in General
A Faction executing an Operation (Op) chooses 1 of the 4 Opera­
tions listed on its Faction aid sheet and, if applicable, selects the 
map spaces to be involved. Operations usually cost Resources (not 
Aid or Patronage,1.8), often per space selected; the paying Faction 
must have enough Resources to pay for the Operation, including 
in each selected space. Select a given space only once for a given 
Operation.
NOTE: The Coalition does not have Resources of its own but often 
expends Government Resources in its Operations.
The executing Faction chooses the order of the spaces in which the 
Operation is resolved, the enemy Factions or pieces to be affected 
(targeted), and the friendly pieces to be placed or replaced. A single 
Operation may target one or more Factions and ignore others. Once 
targeted, a Faction’s pieces are affected to the maximum extent 
possible (1.4.1). 
3.1.1 Pawns. Players may mark spaces selected for Operations 
(3.0) and Special Activities (4.0), respectively, (or other actions) 
with white and red pawns. The pawns are for convenience, not a 
limit on play.
3.1.2 Free Operations. Certain Events (5.5) grant free Operations 
or Special Activities: they cost no Resources and, if executed by a 
Faction other than the one playing an Event, could leave it Eligible 
(2.3.6). Other requirements and procedures still apply unless trumped 
by Event text (5.1.1, 5.5.).
3.2 COIN Operations
The Coalition and Government choose from Train, 
Patrol, Sweep, and Assault Operations. NOTE: Factions other than 
the Taliban may never place or move pieces into Pakistan (1.4.2). 
3.2.1 Train. Training augments Government forces and can build 
Support (1.6) or reduce Patronage (1.8). Select among any Provinces 
or Kabul. Pay 3 Government Resources per selected space. The 
Coalition may only select a Province if it has Coalition pieces and 
only spends 3 Resources if it places cubes.
PROCEDURE: First, in each selected Province with a COIN 
Faction’s Base and in Kabul, place up to 6 Government cubes 
(any combination of Government Troops and Police). If no more 
Government cubes are Available (1.4.1), cubes may be taken from 
elsewhere on the map. The Coalition may place Government cubes 
only if the space (including Kabul) has a Coalition Base. Then, in 
up to 1 selected space, either: 
•	 Conduct Civic Action (6.4.1) to build Support. The space must 
have COIN Control (unlike in the Support Phase, by any COIN 
pieces). The Civic Action costs 3 Government Resources per 
Terror marker removed and level shifted, even if the Training 
Operation was free. OR
•	 If Government, replace any 3 Government cubes with 1 
Government Base (from map if needed, within stacking,1.4.2), 
OR
•	 If Coalition and the space is Kabul, transfer 3 Patronage to Gov­
ernment Resources.
3.2.2 Patrol. Patrolling protects LoCs by moving Troops or Police 
onto them and finding and removing Guerrillas there. If Govern­
ment, pay 3 Resources total (not per space); if Coalition, the cost 
is 0. If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), all moving cubes must end on 
a single destination space. 
PROCEDURE: Move any number of your Faction’s cubes from 
any spaces. Each cube may move into any adjacent LoC or Kabul 
(1.3.3) and may keep entering adjacent LoCs or Kabul until the 
player chooses to stop moving it or it enters a Sabotaged LoC 
(3.3.4). Then, in each LoC (whether or not a cube just moved there 
and even if the Patrol is a Limited Operation), Activate 1 Guerrilla 
for each cube there. Then, if desired, Assault (3.2.4) in 1 LoC at no 
added cost. If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), the Assault must be in 
the destination LoC.
3.2.3 Sweep. Sweep Operations may move Troops and also can 
locate enemy Guerrillas. Select any Provinces or Kabul as des­
tinations (not Pakistan, 1.4.2). Pay 3 Government Resources per 
space selected. Coalition pays Resources only for spaces to which 
Government Troops move. Sweep is not allowed on the final Event 
card (2.3.8). 
PROCEDURE: First, move any of your Faction’s adjacent Troops 
desired into selected spaces. In addition, each group of Troops may 
EXAMPLE: The Coalition selects Kandahar for a Sweep. No LoCs 
are Sabotaged. Two Coalition Troops move from Kabul onto the LoC 
south and from there into Kandahar Province, taking 2 Government 
Troops with them. The Coalition Troops in Zabol also could enter 
Kandahar. 

first move onto an adjacent LoC (1.3.4) that is free of Sabotage 
(3.3.4) and then into an adjacent space. (Any Troops that move 
must reach spaces paid for as destinations.) Each moving Coalition 
cube may take with it 1 Government Troops cube that begins in the 
same space. 
•	 Then, in each selected space, Activate 1 Guerrilla (1.4.3) for each 
Government cube there (Police plus Troops, whether they just 
moved or were already there). 
•	 If a Coalition Sweep, Activate 1 Guerrilla for each cube there (of 
any Faction) only if any Coalition piece present. 
•	 If a Government Sweep, Government transfers 1 Resource to 
Warlords (if it has any) for each LoC entered containing any 
Guerrillas (regardless of whose).
3.2.4 Assault. Assaults eliminate Insurgent forces. Select any 
spaces—if the Coalition (rather than the Government) is executing 
the Assault, select only spaces that have Coalition Troops. Pay 3 
Resources per space selected. Coalition Assault costs 3 Government 
Resources per space only if the Coalition player opts for Government 
cubes there to cause enemy losses. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, remove Active Guerrillas 
(1.4.3) per the number of cubes there, as follows.
•	 If a Government Assault, count only Government cubes and 
remove 1 enemy piece for every 2 cubes (round down) there or 
every 3 cubes in Mountain. 
•	 If a Coalition Assault, count Coalition cubes and—only if 
Government Resources paid—Government cubes and remove 1 
enemy piece for each cube. 
•	 In Kabul or on LoCs, count Troops and Police; in Provinces, 
Troops only. 
BASES LAST: Once a targeted Faction has no Guerrillas in the 
Assault space, remove its Bases instead. For each Taliban Base 
removed by Government Assault, add +6 Aid.
DESIGN NOTE: Guerrillas are less hard hitting than COIN forces 
but enjoy an information advantage in that counterinsurgents must 
Activate (locate) them before Assaulting them. 
NOTE: The Faction aid sheets use the phrase “Bases last” to 
remind that an Operation cannot remove an enemy Base as long 
as the owning Faction’s Guerrillas, Troops, or Police remain in 
the space. A Faction’s Underground Guerrillas in a space prevent 
further removal via Assault of its pieces (including Bases) until the 
Guerrillas are Activated. Also, any cubes protect all COIN Bases 
from Attack (3.3.3).
3.3 Insurgent Operations
The Taliban and Warlords choose from Rally, March, 
Attack, and Terror Operations. 
3.3.1 Rally. Rally Operations augment or recover friendly forces. 
Select any Provinces or Kabul. Pay 1 Resource per space selected. 
•	 Taliban may only select Neutral, Opposition (1.6), or Pashtun 
spaces (1.3.2-.3).
•	 Warlords may not select Pakistan (1.4.2).
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, the executing Faction places 
1 of its Available Guerrillas or replaces 2 of its Guerrillas with 1 of 
its Bases, within stacking (1.4.2). If the space already has at least 
1 of that Faction’s Bases and, for the Warlords, is a non-Pashtun 
space, the Faction may instead either: 
•	 Flip all its Guerrillas there Underground (1.4.3) OR
•	 Place a number of its Guerrillas up to the sum of its Bases there 
plus the space’s Population value (1.3.2-.3). 
The Taliban in 1 Taliban Base space selected for Rally may also con­
duct Sharia (6.4.2) to build Opposition (unlike in the Support Phase, 
regardless of Control). The Sharia costs 1 Resource per Terror marker 
removed and level shifted, even if the Rally operation was free.
NOTE: Taliban can Rally at a Base but place or flip no pieces in order 
to buy Sharia; they can place a Base and immediately buy Sharia.
3.3.2 March. March Operations move friendly Guerrillas. Moving 
Guerrillas may begin in any spaces. Pay 1 Resource per Province or 
City that Guerrillas move into (0 Resources to move onto LoCs). If a 
Limited Operation (2.3.5), all moving Guerrillas must end in a single 
destination space. Warlords may not select Pakistan as a destination 
(1.4.2). Players may not March on the final Event card (2.3.8).
PROCEDURE: The executing Faction moves any of its Guerrillas 
desired into adjacent spaces (1.3.3). Warlord Guerrillas move once 
only. Taliban Guerrillas may conduct additional Marches (paying 
for added destinations) if the destination was Pashtun. Guerrillas 
moving from 1 space to another move as a single group. Set Guer­
rillas of a moving group to Active (1.4.3) if: 
•	 The destination is a LoC, or—for Taliban March—a non-Pashtun 
space (1.3.2-.3), or—for Warlord March—Pashtun, AND
•	 The moving group’s number of Guerrillas plus the number of 
enemy Guerrillas and, for Taliban March only, cubes in the des­
tination space exceeds 3. 
EXAMPLE: Two Underground Taliban Guerrillas March from 
Ghazni to Bamian, where there are 1 Warlord Guerrilla and 1 Police 
cube. The destination is not Pashtun and the total of 4 relevant pieces 
exceeds 3, so the Taliban Guerrillas flip to Active.
DESIGN NOTE: The Taliban were Pashtun based, the Afghan war­
lords mainly Tajik, Uzbek, and other non-Pashtun ethnicities.
3.3.3 Attack. Attack Operations seek to eliminate enemy forces; 
particularly successful attacks augment friendly Guerrillas (by 
capturing enemy weapons, equipment, rations, or recruits). Select 
any spaces where the executing Faction has at least 1 Guerrilla and 
1 enemy piece; pay 1 Resource per space.
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) all the ex­
ecuting Faction’s Guerrillas and then roll a die: if the roll is less than 
or equal to the number of the executing Faction’s Guerrillas there 
(whether or not they began Active), remove up to 2 enemy pieces 
(executing Faction’s choice; may include Underground Guerrillas). 
The 2 pieces may belong to different Factions. 
•	 Insurgent Bases cannot be removed before all that Faction’s 
Guerrillas in the space. 
•	 Coalition or Government Bases cannot be removed before all 
cubes (of either Faction) in the space. 
•	 Remove Government cubes before Coalition cubes. 
•	 Place any Coalition pieces removed by Attack into the Casualties 
box. 
CAPTURED GOODS: If the roll was a “1”, place 1 of the executing 
Faction’s Available Guerrillas (1.4.1) there. 
3.3.4 Terror. Terror Operations in Provinces or 
Kabul affect Support and Opposition (1.6) and 
place Terror markers that hinder future efforts 

to influence it. On LoCs, they place Sabotage markers that block 
Government Resource earnings (6.3.1) and Transport (4.3.2). Select 
any spaces where the executing Faction has at least 1 Underground 
Guerrilla; pay 1 Resource per Province or Kabul (0 for LoCs).
PROCEDURE: Activate 1 friendly Underground Guerrilla in each 
selected space. 
•	 If the space is a Province or Kabul, place a Terror marker. If 
Taliban, shift 1 level toward Opposition (1.6). If Warlords, remove 
any Support or Opposition (set to Neutral). 
•	 If the space is a LoC without a Sabotage marker, place a Sabotage 
marker. 
•	 Do not place a Terror/Sabotage marker if all are already on the 
map. (There are 30.) 
NOTE: Several Terror markers may occupy a Province or Kabul, 
only 1 Sabotage per LoC.
4.0 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
4.1 Special Activities in General 
When a Faction per the Event Card sequence of play (2.3) executes 
an Operation in at least 1 space (3.0), it may also execute 1 type of 
its Special Activities (exception: Limited Operations, 2.3.5). Some 
Events grant free Special Activities (3.1.2, 5.5).
•	 As with Operations, the executing Faction selects spaces, Fac­
tions, or pieces affected and the order of actions and must have 
enough Resources to pay any costs. A Faction may execute its 
Special Activity at any one time immediately before, during, or 
immediately after its Operation. 
EXAMPLE: The Taliban with 0 Resources Extort enough to pay for 
the necessary accompanying Operation thereafter (4.1.1). 
PLAY NOTE: If the 1st Eligible Faction uses a Special Activity, 
the 2nd Eligible will have the option of executing the card’s Event 
(2.3.4). 
4.1.1. Accompanying Operations. Some Special Activities specify 
that they may only accompany certain types of Operations (3.0). 
Certain Special Activities either must occur or may not occur where 
their Accompanying Operations occurred. If not otherwise specified, 
Special Activities may accompany any Operations and take place 
in any otherwise valid spaces. 
4.2 Coalition Special Activities
The Coalition may choose from Surge, Air Lift, or Air Strike 
4.2.1 Surge. Surge brings Coalition forces into or out of Afghanistan 
and can add to Aid to the Government (1.8, 6.2.1) or Resources to 
the Warlords. It may only accompany Training (3.2.1) and take place 
in up to 3 spaces that include Kabul or any Provinces with COIN 
Control (never Pakistan, 1.4.2).
PROCEDURE: Move any Coalition pieces desired among the 3 
spaces and the Coalition Available Forces box. Then, if desired, 
roll a die and distribute that number (fully) among Aid and Warlord 
Resources.
DESIGN NOTE: The Coalition must use a Special Activity to add or 
remove its foreign forces from the map. The die roll represents the 
uncertain outcomes of donor conferences and the like. The Coalition 
sometimes paid warlords for local security.
4.2.2 Air Lift. Air Lift moves Troops, especially to mass them 
quickly for an Operation. 
PROCEDURE: Move any Coalition Troops and up to 3 Government 
Troops among any 3 spaces (not Pakistan, 1.4.2).
4.2.3 Air Strike. An Air Strike destroys exposed Insurgent units. 
It may only accompany a Patrol, Sweep, or Assault (3.2.2-.4) and 
take place in up to 3 spaces other than Kabul.
PROCEDURE: In each space, remove 1 Active Guerrilla or, if the 
targeted Faction has no Guerrillas there, 1 of its Bases. If any of 
the spaces are in Pakistan, shift Islamabad 1 box toward Sponsor­
ship (6.6.1).
4.3 Government Special Activities
The Government chooses from Govern, Transport, or Erad­
icate Special Activities. 
4.3.1 Govern. Governing adds returning refugees to a space’s Popula­
tion or extracts Patronage. It may only accompany Training or Patrol 
(3.2.1-.2) and take place in 1 or 2 COIN-Controlled spaces—Provinces 
or Kabul—that have either Support or 0 Population.
PROCEDURE: In each space, choose one of the following.
•	 Place an available +1 Population Returnees marker (+1 
Pop). There must not yet be a +1 marker in the space. 
Once one of the six +1 markers is placed, it is no longer 
available.
•	 Transfer the Population value from Aid to Patronage (to a maxi­
mum of 40) and set the space to Neutral. There must be no Coali­
tion Base there. 
NOTE: The Government may Govern benignly and thus attract 
more population to control, or less benignly to divert more Aid to 
Patronage.
4.3.2 Transport. Transport moves Troops, such as to gain rapid 
control of the countryside. 
PROCEDURE: Select 1 space and move any Government Troops 
from there onto 1 adjacent LoC, if desired. They may continue to 
move along adjacent LoCs or through Kabul and then, if desired, 
into any 1 adjacent destination (not Pakistan, 1.4.2). Troops must 
stop at any Sabotage. Government then transfers 1 Resource to 
Warlords (if it has any) for each space entered (LoC, Province, or 
City) containing any Guerrillas (regardless of whose).
DESIGN NOTE: Warlord forces, for payment, provided counterin­
surgent route security.
4.3.3 Eradicate. Eradication destroys rural Warlord Bases and earns 
Aid and Patronage. It may only accompany Train, Patrol, or Assault 
(3.2.1,-.2,-.4) and take place in 1 or 2 Provinces (not Kabul) with 
COIN Control, Government cubes, and at least 1 Warlord Base.
PROCEDURE: For each space, boost Aid by +3 and Patronage 
+1, remove 1 Warlord Base there (regardless of Guerrillas there). 
Then:
•	 Shift the Province 1 level toward Opposition (1.6.1), if 
•	 If Pashtun, place a Taliban Guerrilla.
DESIGN NOTE: Farmers tend to resent government destruction of 
their crops. The ability to eradicate selectively or falsely can provide 
opportunities for corruption.

4.4 Taliban Special Activities
The Taliban choose from Extort, Infiltrate, or Ambush 
4.4.1 Extort. Extortion enables the Taliban to gain Resources from 
regions or highways that they dominate. The Taliban may Extort in 
any spaces with at least 1 Underground Taliban Guerrilla and more 
Taliban than enemy pieces. 
PROCEDURE: For each space, Activate 1 Underground Taliban 
Guerrilla there (1.4.3). Add +1 or—if an unSabotaged LoC, its Econ 
value—to Taliban Resources (1.8). If any Warlord Base there, instead 
transfer 2 Resources per Warlord Base from Warlords to Taliban.
4.4.2 Infiltrate. Infiltration replaces Government or Warlord pieces 
with Taliban Guerrillas and siphons Patronage. It may only accom­
pany Rally or March (3.3.1-.2). It may occur in any 1 space with at 
least 1 Underground Taliban Guerrilla.
PROCEDURE: Remove 2 non-Coalition pieces from the space or 
replace 1 there with a Taliban Guerrilla. Government or Warlord 
Bases cannot be removed before all Government cubes or Warlord 
Guerrillas in the space, respectively. Then reduce Patronage by –1 
per Government piece that was removed, if any.
NOTE: Coalition Troops do not protect Government Bases from 
Infiltration.
4.4.3 Ambush. Ambush enables the Taliban to ensure the success 
of up to 3 Attacks. It must take place in spaces selected for Attack 
(3.3.3, not yet resolved) and that each have at least 1 Underground 
Taliban Guerrilla (1.4.3).
PROCEDURE: Instead of the usual Attack procedure (3.3.3), the 
Attacks in those spaces each Activate 1 Underground Guerrilla 
only and automatically succeed (do not roll; remove the 2 enemy 
pieces normally). Place an Available Taliban Guerrilla in each space 
(Underground, 1.4.3) as if a “1” had been rolled.
4.5 Warlords Special Activities
The Warlords may choose from Cultivate, Traffic, or Suborn 
4.5.1 Cultivate. Cultivation adds a new growing area. It may only 
accompany a Rally or March Operation (3.3.1-.2). The location 
must be a Province selected for Rally or as a March destination, 
with Population greater than 0, and with more Warlord Guerrillas 
than Police.
PROCEDURE: Place 1 Warlord Base in the space (within stack­
ing, 1.4.2). 
4.5.2 Traffic. Trafficking provides immediate Resources from War­
lord Bases. It must accompany a Rally or March Operation (3.3.1-.2) 
and may occur in any or all spaces with 1 or 2 Warlord Bases and 
no Coalition pieces. 
PROCEDURE: For each selected space, add +1 Warlord Resource 
per Warlord Base. If the space is Taliban-Controlled, also add +1 
Taliban Resource (total per space). If the space is COIN-Controlled, 
also add +1 Patronage (to max of 40).
4.5.3 Suborn. Suborn neutralizes enemy units or hides Guerrillas 
but cost Resources. It may occur in any of up to 3 spaces.
PROCEDURE: For each space, reduce Warlord Resources –2 and 
remove up to 3 Government cubes, a Government Base, or a Taliban 
Guerrilla from the space, or flip any or all Guerrillas there Under­
ground (1.4.3). (Suborn may remove cubes or a Base, not both.)
DESIGN NOTE: Warlords influenced security forces via both ethnic 
ties and corruption.
5.0 EVENTS
Each Event bears a title, italicized flavor text, and Event text. Flavor 
text provides historical interest and has no effect on play. 
5.1 Executing Events
When a Faction executes an Event, it carries out the Event text 
literally (sometimes involving actions or decisions by other Fac­
tions). Unless otherwise specified, the executing Faction makes all 
selections involved in implementing the text, such as which pieces 
are affected. Some Events with lasting effects have markers as aids 
to play. 
5.1.1 Where Event text contradicts rules, the Event takes precedence. 
However: 
•	 Events never place pieces that are not available (1.4.1); they 
remove rather than replace if the replacement is not available. 
•	 Events may not violate stacking (1.4.2). They may not place 
non-Taliban forces in Pakistan. “Replace” never affects Taliban 
in Pakistan.
•	 Events may not raise Aid or Resources beyond 75 or Patronage 
beyond 40 (1.8).
•	 Events never allow a Faction to execute a type of Operation or 
Special Activity available only to other Factions (3.0, 4.0).
5.1.2 If two Events contradict, the currently played Event takes 
precedence. EXAMPLE: “MANPADS Scare” could result in Air 
Lift even if “Sandstorms” was in effect.
5.1.3 If even per the above not all of an executed Event’s text can 
be carried out, implement that which can.
5.2 Dual Use
Many Events have both unshaded and shaded Event text. The 
executing Faction may select either the unshaded or shaded text 
to carry out (not both). While the unshaded text often favors the 
Counterinsurgents, a player may select either text option regard­
less of Faction.
Faction Order
NOTE: Gray halos around some Faction 
symbols regard Non-player instructions 
(8.4.1).
Title
Italicized Flavor Text
Event Text
Lasting Effects Indicator (5.3)
Shaded Text (see Dual Use (5.2).

DESIGN NOTE: Dual-use events represent opposed effects of the 
same cause, forks in the historical road, or instances subject to 
alternative historical interpretation.
5.3 Capabilities 
Dual-use Events marked “COALITION 
CAPABILITIES” or “TALIBAN CAPA­
BILITIES” have lasting effects that either 
help or hurt that Faction. When executing such an Event, place 
the corresponding marker on the appropriate side (unshaded is 
pro-Coalition, shaded pro-Taliban) in the corresponding Faction’s 
Capabilities box. The Event’s effects last for the rest of the game.
PLAY NOTE: If desired, set out executed Capabilities Event cards 
as added reminders.
5.4 Momentum
Event text (unshaded, shaded, or both) marked “MOMENTUM” 
also has lasting effects. When executing such text, place the card in 
view near the draw pile. The effects last until the next Propaganda 
round’s Reset phase (6.6), when the card is discarded. NOTE: Any 
number of Momentum Events can be in play.
MARKERS: Place the appropriate “Talks” or 
“Tribal Elders” markers on the corresponding 
Event card (numbers 24 and 70) to record which 
use or which Faction applies.
5.5 Free Operations
Some Events allow the Executing or another Faction an immediate 
Operation or Special Activity that interrupts the usual sequence of 
play and typically is free: it bears no Resource cost and does not 
affect Eligibility (3.1.2, 2.3.1), though other aspects remain unless 
trumped by Event text (5.1.1). 
EXAMPLE: Free Suborn (4.5.3) would cost 0 Resources and not 
affect Warlords Eligibility. Free Traffic (4.5.2) could not occur in a 
space with Coalition unless Event text so specified. 
6.0 PROPAGANDA ROUNDS
Conduct a Propaganda Round in the sequence of phases below as 
each Propaganda Card is played. The Sequence of Play sheet and 
board also list this sequence. 
Exception: Never conduct more than 1 Propaganda Round in a 
row (without at least 1 Event card in between)—instead, additional 
Propaganda cards are played without a Propaganda Round. If final 
(2.4.1), end the game and determine victory (7.3). 
6.1 Victory Phase
If any Faction has met its Victory condition, the game ends (excep­
tions: Non-player option [1.5]; 1-player [8.9]). See Victory (7.0) 
to determine winner and rank order. Otherwise, continue with the 
Propaganda Round. After conducting the final Propaganda card’s 
Round (2.4.1), determine victory per 7.3.
6.3 Resources Phase
Follow these steps to add to Factions’ Resources to a 
maximum of 75 (1.8). 
6.3.1 Sabotage. Sabotage (3.3.4) each unSabotaged LoC 
where the number of Taliban Guerrillas exceeds non-Tal­
iban pieces. 
6.3.2 Government Earnings. Add Aid plus the Economic value 
(1.3.4) of all LoCs that have no Sabotage (12 minus the Econ value 
of any Sabotaged LoCs) to Government Resources. 
6.3.3 Insurgent Earnings. Add to Resources:
•	 Taliban–The number of their Bases on map.
•	 Warlords–The number of their Bases on map plus the number of 
their Guerrillas on unSabotaged LoCs.
6.3.4 Casualties and Aid. Finally, subtract from Aid 3 times the 
number of pieces in the Casualties box (3.3.3).
6.4 Support Phase
The COIN Factions then the Taliban may spend Resources to affect 
popular Support and Opposition (1.6).
6.4.1 Civic Action. The Coalition and then the Government may 
spend any number of Government Resources to build Support in 
Provinces or Kabul City if the space has COIN Control, Troops, and 
Police. Every 3 Resources spent removes 1 Terror marker or—once 
no Terror is in a space—shifts it 1 level toward Support. The Faction 
that has the most Troops in the space (Coalition if equal number) 
decides how much Civic Action is bought.
DESIGN NOTE: Troops and Police together provide the secu­
rity needed to make gains in popular support. See also Training, 
3.2.1.
6.4.2 Sharia. Taliban may spend Resources to encourage Opposition 
in Taliban-Controlled spaces (1.6). Every 1 Resource they spend 
removes 1 Terror marker or—once no Terror is in a space—shifts 
it 1 level toward Opposition. 
DESIGN NOTE: Taliban administration of Islamic law (sharia) 
could help resolve local disputes. See also Rally, 3.3.1.
6.5 Redeploy Phase
Redeploy forces as follows without adjusting COIN or Taliban 
Control until afterwards.
6.5.1 Desertion. Each space, the Government must select and 
remove 1 in 3 of its cubes (round down) to its Available Forces. 
NOTE: Two Government cubes alone are unaffected.
6.5.2 Redeploy. The Coalition may move any of its Troops on LoCs 
or in Provinces without COIN Bases (only) to COIN-Controlled 
spaces (1.7) with COIN Bases or to Kabul. Then the Government 
must do so with its Troops.
6.5.3 The Government may move any Police to any LoCs or COIN-
Controlled spaces (1.7). 
DESIGN AND PLAY NOTE: While Troops are the Counterinsur­
gents’ main means of establishing presence in the countryside, Police 
are the main means of staying there over time. 
6.5.4 The Taliban next must move any of their Guerrillas on LoCs 
or in Provinces without Taliban Bases to spaces with Taliban Bases 
and under Taliban Control (1.7) or to Pashtun spaces in Pakistan. 
(Guerrillas in Kabul stay.) 
DESIGN NOTE: Many Taliban fought seasonally. 
6.5.5 Control. Now adjust COIN and Taliban Control (1.7) to reflect 
the above moves. 
6.5.6 Game End? If and only if this is the final Round (2.4.1), end 
and determine victory (7.3).

7.2 During Propaganda Rounds
Check victory at the start of each Propaganda Round (6.1), com­
paring the positions of the various victory markers (1.9) and the 
Warlord Resources cylinder to the thresholds marked on the edge 
track. Victory conditions are:
• Coalition—Total Population in Support plus the number of pieces 
in the Coalition Available Forces box exceeds 30. 
• Government—Total COIN-Controlled Population plus Patronage 
exceeds 35.
• Taliban—Total Population in Opposition plus the number of 
Taliban Bases on the map exceeds 20.
• Warlords—Total Uncontrolled Population within Afghanistan 
exceeds 15 and Warlord Resources exceed 40. 
7.3 After Final Propaganda 
If the final Propaganda Round (2.4.1) is completed without a victory 
check win (7.2), the Faction with the highest victory margin wins. 
A victory margin is the amount a Faction is beyond or short of its 
condition set forth in 7.2.
NOTE: The victory margin will be positive if the Faction has reached 
its goal, negative or zero if it has not. 
• Coalition: Total Support + Available Coalition pieces – 30. 
• Government: COIN-Controlled Population + Patronage – 35. 
• Taliban: Total Opposition + Taliban Bases – 20. 
• Warlords: Lower of Uncontrolled Afghan Population – 15 or 
Warlord Resources – 40.
Victory Deception Option: For less knowledge of how close 
Factions in 3- or 4-player games are to winning, each player at 
start blindly draws 2 Deception markers. Set aside the rest; they 
may not be inspected. Players may reveal any of their Deception 
markers only as they use them:
Empty Threat: No effect (reveal at game end).
Hidden Agenda: Permanently add +1 to the holding player’s 
victory margin (7.3).
Hidden Asset: Convert any 1 LimOp option (2.3.5) into a full 
Op & Special Activity Option.
STOP!
You have read all rules needed for 4 players or the no Non-Player 
option (1.5, recommended if playing the first time).
6.6 Reset Phase
Prepare for the next card as follows:
• Casualties. Remove all Bases and 1 in 2 Troops (round down) 
in the Casualties box from the game. Move the remaining Troop 
Casualties to Coalition Available.
• Islamabad. If the Islamabad marker is Hard, flip it over. If not, 
shift it 1 box toward “Backing” (6.6.1).
•	 Mark all Factions Eligible (2.3.1). 
•	 Remove all Terror and Sabotage markers (3.3.4). 
•	 Place any cards in the Momentum holding boxes onto the played 
cards—their Events’ effects no longer apply (5.4). 
•	 Flip all Guerrillas to Underground (1.4.3). 
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck and reveal the draw deck’s 
new top card (2.3.8). 
6.6.1 The Islamabad Track. The Islamabad track 
shows Pakistan’s posture toward the Taliban and 
corresponding effects.
• 
Hostility. No Taliban Rally (3.3.1) in Pakistan. 
Taliban Guerrillas in Pakistan are always Active (1.4.3).
• Pressure. No Taliban Rally in Pakistan. 
• Tolerance. No effect.
• Backing. Taliban Rally in Pakistan and March (3.3.2) to or from 
Pakistan spaces cost 0 Resources.
• Sponsorship. Taliban Rally in and March (3.3.2) to or from 
Pakistan spaces cost 0 Resources. Any Taliban Limited Opera­
tions (2.3.5) may occur in multiple spaces (as if a normal Op 
only [2.3.3], no Special Activity). (See also Non-player Taliban, 
8.7.6.)
ISLAMABAD SHIFTS: Immediately shift the Islamabad marker right 
or left on the track as the following apply (as noted on the track).
• Events. Several Events shift Islamabad.
• Air Strike. Whenever an Air Strike (4.2.3) includes one or more 
spaces in Pakistan, shift 1 box toward “Sponsorship”.
• Reset. Each Reset phase (6.6), either flip the Islamabad marker 
if Hard (below), or shift it 1 box toward “Backing” if not.
HARDENED POSTURE: If any of the above would 
shift Islamabad beyond either end of the track, instead 
flip the marker to (or keep it at) “Hard”. 
NOTE: The marker at Hard shifts normally, except 
during Reset. 
7.0 VICTORY 
Each Faction has unique victory conditions, covered below and on 
the Faction aid sheets.
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
If any Non-player Faction (8.0) passes a victory check (7.2), all 
players lose equally. Otherwise, whenever any player does so or if 
none does by game end, the Faction that reached the highest victory 
margin (7.3) comes in 1st place, 2nd-highest comes in 2nd place, 
and so on. Ties go to Non-players (8.0), then the Warlords, then the 
Government, then the Taliban. (See also 1player victory, 8.8.)

8.0 NON-PLAYER FACTIONS
This section governs actions by any Factions beyond those repre­
sented by a player. See also the Playbook’s 1-Player Example of 
Play.
NOTE: Non-player Factions may not act only in their own direct 
interest. Like players, they sometimes help, sometimes harm, one 
another. 
8.1 Non-Player Sequence of Play
The Sequence of Play aid sheet summarizes the following rules in 
gray text.
• Event or Ops? Except as specified below and in any special Event 
Instructions (8.4.1), a Non-player Faction when given the option 
(2.3.4) chooses the Event. 
• Capabilities/Islamabad. Non-player Warlords only opt for 
Capabilities Events (5.3) or those that would affect the Islamabad 
Track (6.6.1) if the Taliban are a Non-player. Non-player 
Government only does so if the Coalition is a Non-player. Non-
player Taliban and Coalition opt for Capabilities Events only on a 
die roll less than the number of Propaganda cards left in the deck.
• Ineffective Events. Regardless of the above, Non-player Factions 
opt only for Events that would have an effect (something happens, 
including Capabilities, 5.3) and for Momentum Events (5.4) other 
than “Mullah Omar” only when the next card showing is not 
Propaganda.
• Operations Not Limited. Whenever a Non-player Faction is to 
execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5), it instead executes a full 
Operation and Special Activity. Ignore the Final Event Card 
restriction (2.3.8). 
• Low Resources. When a Non-player Insurgent with 0 Re­
sources—or the Government with fewer than 3—is to execute 
Operations, it Passes instead (earning Resources, 2.3.3). NOTE: 
A Non-player Coalition can Operate even when the Government 
is out of Resources. 
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: Non-player Warlords are 1st 
Eligible for “Change in Tactics.” No Capabilities markers are yet 
in play. The Event would have no effect, so the Warlords execute 
Operations and a Special Activity.
8.1.1 Operations, Special Activities, and Events. To execute a 
Non-player Faction’s Operations and Special Activities or a spe­
cific Event, see the Non-Player flow charts and the relevant rules 
below. 
GUIDELINES: Unless otherwise specified, carry out whatever ac­
tions apply to the maximum extent (such as with the most pieces 
allowed and only as long as needed pieces and Resources are 
available). Normal Resource costs, requirements, and procedures 
still apply. 
EXAMPLE: Non-Player Terror requires Activating an Underground 
Guerrilla and costs 1 Resource per Province, per 3.3.4.
8.1.2 Procedure Guidelines. Unless otherwise specified, once 
spaces involved are selected, Non-player Factions:
•	 Target or remove enemy players’ before Non-players’ assets 
whenever possible.
•	 Remove enemy Bases before other pieces, Underground before 
Active Guerrillas, and Police then Troops evenly (each space); 
otherwise select randomly among enemy Factions. Remove pieces 
to be replaced even if no pieces are available to replace them 
(1.4.1).
•	 Place friendly Bases whenever possible. Exception: Place no 
more than 1 Government Base per space. Remove friendly Active 
before Underground Guerrillas. Place or remove friendly Police 
and Troops evenly, Police first. 
•	 March so as to get as many Underground Guerrillas as possible 
to the destination (3.3.2). Within that requirement, March Active 
Guerrillas first. 
•	 Do not move a piece out of a space if that would place or remove 
Control there (1.7). Exception: Surge (8.8.2).
•	 Voluntarily transfer nothing (1.5.1).
MARCH EXAMPLE: Non-player Warlord Guerrillas are Marching 
into an empty Pashtun space. If any were Underground, only 3 of 
them would move, first those Underground. 
PLAY NOTE: Players may transfer (1.5.1) to Non-player Factions 
normally.
8.2 Random Spaces
If several candidate spaces have equal priority for a Non-player 
Operation, Special Activity, or Event, select a Province or Kabul 
using the Random Spaces table:
•	 Roll the three dice and refer to the table: tan indicates column, 
black indicates row of space trios, and green indicates the space 
within the trio (unless Kabul).
•	 If the resulting space is not a candidate, move down the column 
until one is reached. Follow the arrows, moving from the bottom 
of one column to the top of the next and from Kandahar to 
Balochistan (or just follow the arrows on the Random Spaces 
Map). 
•	 Carry out as much of the action as possible in the candidate 
reached, then roll again to select another, if needed.
PLAY NOTE: If players agree, choose among a few spaces by equal-
chance die roll instead.
8.3 Random LoCs 
If only LoCs are candidates, choose:
•	 First that with the highest Econ.
•	 Then with an equal chance die roll.
Sabotage only unSabotaged LoCs.
8.4 Non-Player Events
NOTE: Events will not always benefit the executing Non-player 
Faction directly.
Halo
8.4.1 Event Instructions. Whenever any Non-player Faction is to 
execute an Event and that Faction’s symbol on the card has a gray 
halo, first check any special instructions for that Event at the bottom 
of that Faction’s sheet. 
8.4.2 Dual Use. Non-player Warlords and Taliban executing a 
Dual-Use Event (5.2) use shaded text, Non-player Government and 
Coalition use unshaded, unless Event Instructions note otherwise 
(8.4.1).

8.4.3 Placement. Place, remove, or relocate as many pieces (per 
8.1.2) as the Event, availability (1.4.1), and stacking (1.4.2) allow.
8.4.4 Who and Where. Unless otherwise specified:
•	 When there is a choice of who gets Event benefits (such as placing 
pieces or free Operations), select the executing Faction, then 
another random Non-player Faction.
•	 For free Operations or Special Activities, use that Faction’s 
priorities (8.5-8.8). 
•	 Select Event spaces to ensure that as many Bases then other pieces 
as possible are placed, removed, or replaced, then for the greatest 
change in Total Support/Opposition. 
•	 Otherwise, select spaces randomly (8.2.3).
8.5 Non-Player Warlords Actions
NOTE: It is not necessary to master the rules below for 
specific Factions because they are summarized on the Non-player 
foldout.
8.5.1 Rally. If at least 6 Warlords pieces are available, Rally in up 
to 3 Provinces:
•	 First, flip Guerrillas Underground in any non-Pashtun Provinces 
where Warlord Guerrillas are all Active and there is a Warlord 
Base and a cube.
•	 Then, place Bases where there are at least 2 Warlord Guerrillas 
and room.
•	 Then, place Guerrillas, first, where Warlords have Bases but no 
Guerrillas; then, where they have Guerrillas but there are no Bases; 
then, if no Cultivate yet possible, in 1 Province where Cultivate 
could then place a Base (4.5.1); finally, in other random Provinces. 
Then execute a Special Activity per 8.5.4.
IF NONE: If no such Rally is possible, instead March as below.
8.5.2 March. If Rally conditions (8.5.1) are not met and the sum 
of Warlord Resources plus Warlord Bases on the map is 50 or less, 
instead March. March from all adjacent Provinces or Kabul, without 
moving the last Warlord Guerrilla from a space with a Warlord Base 
(nor adding any Control markers, 8.1.2): 
•	 Onto 1 empty LoC (high Econ first, 8.3) with 1 Guerrilla.
•	 Next, with all possible Guerrillas (per 8.1.2) to all spaces where 
their arrival would remove Control, first to highest Population.
•	 Then, with all possible (within 8.1.2) into 1 random Province, 
first a Province in which Cultivate could then place a Base.
Then execute a Special Activity per 8.5.4.
IF NONE: If not possible, Terror per below.
8.5.3 Terror. If neither Rally nor March conditions above are met, 
execute Terror (with an Underground Guerrilla, 3.3.4) in 1 space:
•	 If the Coalition is a Non-player, where Opposition.
•	 If the Taliban are a Non-player, where Support.
•	 If neither applies or is possible, in a random Support or Opposition 
space. 
Then Suborn per 8.5.4. 
IF NONE: If no such Terror is possible, instead Rally per 8.5.1 or, 
if that not possible, Pass.
8.5.4 Special Activities. If Non-player Warlords executed Rally or 
March, next Cultivate if possible per the following, otherwise Traffic 
or, if that not possible, Suborn. If they executed Terror, Suborn. 
CULTIVATE: Cultivate to place a Base in a random eligible space 
(4.5.1), if possible, a space that already has 1 Warlord Base. If none 
or no Base available, instead Traffic as follows.
TRAFFIC: Unless Warlord Resources would reach 75, Traffic in all 
spaces with Warlord Bases and no Coalition pieces (4.5.2). If they 
would reach 75, or if there are no such spaces (or only 1 Warlord 
Base with “Counter-Narc” in effect), instead Suborn.
SUBORN: Suborn (4.5.3) in up to 3 spaces.
•	 First, remove Government or Taliban pieces—Government Bases 
if possible—so as to remove either COIN or Taliban Control where 
possible to do so in Afghanistan. 
•	 Then, remove Taliban Guerrillas if the Coalition is a Non-player, 
otherwise Government pieces, from random spaces, LoCs first 
and spaces in Pakistan last.
If no such Suborn is possible (the Warlords have fewer than 2 Re­
sources or “Local Truce” is in effect), execute no Special Activity.
8.6 Non-Player Government Actions
8.6.1 Momentum. For the following Event in effect (5.4) 
with a Non-player Government: 
•	 Tribal Elders—If executed by Government, always set to Support, 
unless that would raise Coalition’s victory margin (7.3) above 
Government’s, in which case set to Neutral. 
8.6.2 Train. If at least 15 Government pieces are available or Govern 
could add Patronage at this moment (4.3.1), Train in these spaces:
•	 First, in 1 Province that has at least 3 Government cubes, no COIN 
Base, and room for one, replacing the 3 Government cubes with 
an available Base.
•	 Then, to place from Available up to 6 cubes each (4 if shaded 
“Night Letters” in effect, 5.3) among Kabul and up to 3 COIN Base 
spaces, first in 1 space as needed to enable any Civic Action per 
below, then where the fewest Government cubes (and per 8.1.2). 
If no Base placed, in any 1 of these spaces where Civic Action is 
possible (3.2.1) and there are no Coalition Bases (if any), shift as 
far as possible toward Support.
GOVERN: Then Govern in up to 2 COIN-Controlled spaces (4.3.1). 
First, where Support and no Coalition Base, transfer Patronage from 
Aid (if any) and set to Neutral. Then, where 0 Population (and COIN 
Control), add a +1Pop marker (if any available). Finally, wherever 
else possible, add +1Pop. 
•	 If no such Govern possible, instead Transport.
TRANSPORT: First, find a COIN-Controlled space that has the most 
Government Troops in excess of those needed to maintain Control 
(1.7). Transport those excess Troops—leaving at least 1 Govt Troop 
even if excess—to a Province that has Police but no Troops nor 
COIN Base, if possible. If not, Transport them to the space where 
they would add the most COIN-Controlled Population (more than 
0), if possible by replacing Taliban Control.
•	 If not possible, execute no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Training possible, Patrol.
8.6.3 Patrol. If Training conditions (8.6.2) are not met and Taliban 
Guerrillas on an LoC or in Kabul exceed non-Taliban pieces, Patrol. 
Move cubes to equal Taliban Guerrillas, if possible 1 Police per LoC 
and Kabul, the rest Troops. Take each Police or Troops cube from a 

City or Province with the most that can reach the destination LoC. 
Assault on a LoC to remove the most Taliban possible.
•	 Then Govern or Transport as above (8.6.2). 
IF NONE: If no such Patrol is possible, Sweep.
8.6.4 Sweep. If neither Training nor Patrol conditions (8.6.2-.3) are 
met and Assault per 8.6.5 (with Eradicate) would remove neither a 
Base nor at least 2 Guerrillas, Sweep 3 spaces to Activate Taliban 
then Warlord Guerrillas:
•	 First, in the highest Population space possible, move in enough 
Troops to add COIN Control, from any spaces that can reach it.
•	 Then, without moving, to Activate the most Underground Taliban 
then Warlord Guerrillas possible, Kabul first if tied. 
Then Transport per 8.6.2.
IF NONE: If no such Sweep possible, Assault.
8.6.5 Assault. If neither Training nor Patrol conditions are met 
and Assault with any Eradication would remove a Base or at least 
2 Guerrillas, Assault up to 3 spaces:
•	 First in spaces to remove the most Taliban Bases, then to remove 
the most Taliban then Warlord Guerrillas possible, on LoCs 
last.
•	 In each space, target Taliban then Warlords.
ERADICATE: Then Eradicate in 1 or 2 eligible spaces (4.3.3), 
first where there is Opposition, then in nonPashtun spaces, then at 
random.
•	 If no Eradication possible, Transport per 8.6.2.
IF NONE: If no such Assault possible, Pass.
8.6.6 Civic Action. During the Support Phase or Events, buy Civic 
Action (6.4.1) to remove all Opposition possible. Then, if this Pro­
paganda Round is not the final one (2.4.1), add Support to spaces 
without Coalition Bases (only). 
8.6.7 Redeploy. Ensure COIN Control of Kabul (without losing other 
Control, 8.1.2), then keep Government Troops spread evenly (6.5.2). 
Redeploy Police (6.5.3) to maintain Control (such as where Troops 
left), then to have 2 Police on each 3- and 4- Econ LoC, spread as 
evenly as possible among Provinces and Kabul.
8.7 Non-Player Taliban Actions
8.7.1 Momentum. If in effect (5.4): 
•	 MANPADS Scare. Non-player Taliban with Resources pay to 
cancel any Air Lift or Air Strike (4.2.2-.3) on a die roll of 1-4. 
•	 Tribal Elders—If executed by Non-player Taliban, always shift 
to Opposition. 
8.7.2 Rally. If Taliban have at least 15 pieces available or at least 15 
Guerrillas Active, Rally in these eligible spaces (3.3.1): 
•	 First, in up to 3 with Taliban Guerrillas all of which are Active, 
a Taliban Base, and any cubes, flip the Guerrillas Underground. 
•	 Then, where at least 3 Taliban Guerrillas and room, replace 2 
Guerrillas with a Base. 
•	 If there is no Underground Taliban Guerrilla in Kabul, place a 
Guerrilla there. 
•	 Then place Guerrillas, first to add Taliban Control to 1 space 
that does not have it yet, then in 1 space that has 1 or 2 Taliban 
Guerrillas, then at all Taliban Bases. 
•	 Finally, buy Sharia (8.7.7) for the greatest possible shift in 1 of 
the above Rally spaces. 
EXTORT: Then Extort any unSabotaged 3Econ and 4-Econ LoCs 
•	 If not possible (4.4.1), instead Infiltrate.
INFILTRATE: Infiltrate (4.4.2) to replace a piece with a Guerrilla, 
or, if no Guerrillas Available, to remove 2 enemy pieces. Target Gov­
ernment first. Infiltrate on a LoC, if possible; otherwise to remove 
a Government Base, if possible; then the last Police from a space, 
if possible; otherwise in a random space. 
•	 If no such Infiltrate targets, Extort everywhere possible; if none 
possible, no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Rally possible, March.
8.7.3 March. If Rally conditions (8.7.2) are not met and Support 
spaces and LoCs have neither Underground Taliban Guerrillas nor 
at least 4 Taliban Guerrillas total, March from all Taliban Control 
spaces that have at least 2 Taliban Guerrillas (and per 8.1.2). 
•	 First, enter all unSabotaged LoCs and then Kabul adjacent to 
such spaces, until Taliban exceed non-Taliban by 1 piece, to at 
most 2 Taliban Guerrillas per space. Then enter 2 Provinces that 
have neither Opposition nor Taliban Control, from such origin 
spaces.
•	 Finally, March from such origins toward and then into 2 other 
Provinces with neither Opposition nor Taliban Control and 
reachable via Pashtun spaces, with up to Guerrillas needed to 
add Taliban Control. Select lowest-cost route (closest origins 
first). Pashtun destinations above or along the route become 
origins—March Guerrillas from there also.
•	 Leave 1 Taliban Guerrilla at each origin, if possible one that is 
Underground (and March only per 8.1.2, losing no Control). 
Then Extort or Infiltrate per 8.7.2.
IF NONE: If no such March is possible, Attack. 
NOTE: Unless “Sandstorms” is in effect (5.4), Taliban Guerrillas 
in Pashtun spaces can March even if they just Marched (3.3.2). If 
Islamabad is at Backing or Sponsorship, March via Pakistan spaces 
costs less (6.6.1).
8.7.4 Attack. If neither Rally nor March conditions (8.7.2-.3) are 
met and Total Support plus Available Coalition pieces is 20 or less, 
Attack (3.3.3) in 3 spaces (LoCs last, 8.2) where Taliban could 
Ambush—first to remove at least 1 Coalition piece. Then Attack 
in each other space with at least 4 already Active (1.4.3) Taliban 
Guerrillas and a Coalition piece. In each space, remove Coalition 
first if possible, then Government, then Warlords.
AMBUSH: Ambush (4.4.3) in the 3 spaces with the fewest Taliban 
Guerrillas. If tied, choose first where a Coalition piece then a Govern­
ment Base could be removed. If shaded “Car Bombs” in effect (5.3), 
use an Active Guerrilla in a space with no Underground Taliban. If 
no Ambush possible, execute no Special Activity. 
IF NONE: If no such Attack possible, instead execute Terror or, if 
that not possible, Pass.
8.7.5 Terror. If neither Rally nor March conditions (8.7.2-.3) are 
met and Support + Available is above 20, instead execute Terror 
(3.3.4) to Sabotage all LoCs and shift as much Support/Opposition 

EXTORT: Then Extort (4.4.1) everywhere possible. If none, execute 
no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Terror possible, instead Attack per 8.7.4 or, 
if not possible, Pass.
8.7.6 Islamabad. If Islamabad is at Sponsorship (6.6.1), Non-player 
Taliban stay Eligible (2.3.1) after executing Events (including an 
Event that just obtained Sponsorship).
8.7.7 Sharia. Non-player Taliban conduct all Sharia (6.4.2) they can, 
first for the greatest shift, then where Support, then where fewest 
Terror markers, then randomly. Remove Terror only if a shift would 
be achieved.
8.7.8 Redeploy. Keep Taliban Guerrillas (6.5.4) spread as evenly as 
possible, with odd Guerrillas in Afghan spaces if possible.
8.8 Non-Player Coalition Actions
8.8.1 Momentum. If in effect (5.4): 
•	 Tribal Elders—If executed by Non-player Coalition, always shift 
to Support. 
8.8.2 Train. If spaces with COIN (Coalition or Government) pieces 
have fewer than 4 Taliban pieces among them, Train in up to 3 
spaces:
•	 First, if Patronage exceeds 20 or Government has less than 3 
Resources, Train in Kabul to transfer exactly 3 Patronage to 
Government Resources; then place Available cubes there as 
•	 If not (or if less than 3 Patronage), Train to buy Civic Actions 
per 8.8.5 in 1 space—2 spaces if unshaded “PRTs” is in effect 
(5.3)—where Civic Action could achieve a shift (3.2.1). Then 
place as many Available cubes as possible into the space(s).
•	 Finally, at Coalition Bases without more than 6 Government pieces 
beyond those needed for COIN Control, place Available cubes; 
once no more Available, take Police from spaces with the most 
to add up to 3 per Training space.
•	 If Training occurred and unshaded “Village Stability Operations” 
is in effect, place 1 Police where Coalition Troops and fewest 
Police, if needed from the space with the most Police.
SURGE: Then Surge in COIN-Control spaces:
•	 Unless the next Propaganda Round will be final (2.4.1), roll a die 
and place 1 Base each into up to half that roll (rounded down) 
of spaces that have no Coalition Base yet and have the highest 
Population, those without Government Bases when tied; then 
place up to the same die roll of Troops from Available as evenly 
as possible into those and other spaces totaling up to 3, first where 
Taliban. 
•	 If the next Propaganda will be final, instead remove to Available 
all Coalition Troops from 1 space (even if Control lost, 8.1.2), if 
tied, a space with the least Population.
•	 In either case, add a die roll in Aid.
If no pieces can thus be placed in or removed from such spaces, 
Air Lift instead.
AIR LIFT: After Training without a Surge, Air Lift from 2 COIN-
Controlled spaces that have the most Coalition Troops in excess of 
those needed to keep Control, with as many Coalition and Govern­
ment Troops as possible without losing that Control or removing 
the last Coalition or last Government Troop. Move them to add 
COIN Control to 1 space, first where Taliban, then at the highest 
Population.
•	 If no such Air Lift is possible, execute no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Training possible, Sweep.
8.8.3 Sweep. If 4 or more Taliban are with COIN pieces and Assault 
per 8.8.4 (even with Air Lift or Air Strike) would fail to remove any 
Base or at least 4 Taliban pieces, Sweep all spaces with Coalition 
pieces in place to Activate Taliban then Warlord Guerrillas:
•	 If Air Lift into a space before Sweeping would Activate the last 
Underground Taliban there (that otherwise would not be), first 
Air Lift into such a space that would Activate the most. If not (or 
if shaded “ISR” is in effect), Air Strike.
•	 If unshaded “ISR” is in effect, Activate Taliban, first on a LoC, 
then the last Underground Taliban in an Afghan space, then at 
random.
AIR LIFT: Move as many Troops as possible—selecting 2 origin 
spaces as in an Air Lift after Training (8.8.2)—to the Sweep or 
Assault space.
AIR STRIKE: Target Taliban, first Bases, then where possible the 
last Taliban in a space, then most Guerrillas. Among those, select 
Pakistan first if Islamabad is at Sponsorship and Hard (6.6.1). If 
unshaded “Predators” is in effect, select first 1 Pakistan space with 
the fewest Guerrillas, removing 1 piece there per 8.1.2.
•	 If not possible, execute no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Sweep is possible or would Activate any 
Guerrillas, Assault.
8.8.4 Assault. If Assault with Air Lift or Air Strike would remove 
a Base or at least 4 Taliban pieces, all Coalition Troops Assault to 
remove Taliban then Warlords:
•	 If Air Lift into a space before Assaulting would remove at least 
4 Taliban pieces or a Taliban Base that would not be removed by 
Assault plus Air Strike, first Air Lift per 8.8.3 into such a space 
to remove the most Taliban pieces. If no such Air Lift possible, 
Air Strike per 8.8.3.
•	 Assault first in spaces to remove the most Taliban Bases, then the 
most Taliban Guerrillas, then where highest Population.
•	 Pay to use Government cubes only in the first space where they 
increase removal, plus wherever needed to remove a Base.
•	 If shaded “Accidental Guerrillas” is in effect and Assault plus 
Air Lift or Air Strike would remove just 1 Guerrilla total, instead 
Pass.
IF NONE: If no such Assault is possible, Pass.
8.8.5 Civic Action. Non-player Coalition buys all Civic Action that 
it can (3.2.1, 6.4.1), first for the greatest shift, then where Opposition, 
then where fewest Terror markers, then randomly. Remove Terror 
only to achieve a shift. 
8.8.6 Redeploy. Non-player Coalition Troops Redeploy when able 
(6.5.2) only from spaces that have no Police, to eligible spaces with 
fewest Coalition Troops.

KEY TERMS INDEX
8.9 1-Player Victory
A 1-player game ends during a Propaganda Round Victory Phase 
(7.2) only after the 1st Round and only if the player (Coalition or 
Taliban) has a victory margin (7.3) less than that of at least one other 
Faction. To succeed, the player must avoid that situation through 
each Propaganda Round and have the highest margin after the final 
Round. If not, the Non-player with the highest margin (ties to War­
lords, then Government) wins Afghanistan:
• If Warlords—Feudal Patchwork! Afghanistan returns to its 
primordial normal, a region of fiefdoms rather than a nation. 
Opium production flourishes. 
• If Government—Pashtun Dictatorship! Karzai successors 
consolidate control—loyal to themselves rather than any 
international norms or bonds. Peace with the warlords and Taliban 
is shaky, human rights off the agenda.
• If Non-Player Taliban—Extremist Return! The central 
Government falls in the face of Coalition withdrawal and Pashtun 
yearning for Taliban stability. Years of Coalition effort have left 
Afghanistan as it was before 2001. 
• If Non-Player Coalition—Fundamentalism Denied! The invaders 
have exhausted the Taliban, reduced to negotiating their place in 
an Afghanistan ruled by laws of man not God. 
+1 Pop—Markers that add +1 Population, Re­
turnees. (4.3.1)
Accompanying—Operation required for Special 
Activity. (4.1.1)
Activate—Flip or leave Guerrilla Active. 
(1.4.3)
Active—Guerrilla symbol end up: subject to As­
sault or Air Strike (1.4.3).
Adjacent—Spaces next to each other for actions 
or Events. (1.3.3)
Aid—Foreign assistance that adds to Govt Re­
sources during Propaganda Rounds or by Event. 
(1.8, 6.3.1)
Air Lift—Coalition Special Activity that moves 
Troops. (4.2.2)
Air Strike—Coalition Special Activity that re­
moves enemy pieces. (4.2.3)
Ambush—Taliban Special Activity ensuring At­
tack success. (4.3.1, 4.4.1)
Attack—Insurgent Operation that removes enemy 
pieces. (3.3.3)
Assault—COIN Operation that removes enemy 
pieces. (3.2.4)
Available—Forces or Returnees in holding boxes, 
waiting to be placed. (1.4.1, 4.3.1)
Backing—Islamabad track box. (6.6.1)
Base—Mostly-immobile force pieces that af­
fect Rally, Resources, and Victory, among other 
functions. (1.4)
Bases Last—Frequent requirement that no protect­
ing cubes or Guerrillas be in a space before removing 
a Base. (3.2.4, 3.3.3, 4.2.3, 4.4.2)
Campaign—Event card series leading up to a 
Propaganda Round. (2.4)
Capabilities—Lasting Events that help or hurt 
Coalition or Taliban actions. (5.3)
Captured Goods—Place Guerrilla via Attack. 
(3.3.3) 
Casualties—Coalition pieces removed by Attack. 
(3.3.3, 6.6)
City—Type of space: the urban area of Kabul. 
(1.3.3)
Civic Action—COIN activity to increase Support. 
(3.2.1, 6.4.1)
Coalition—A COIN Faction (mainly NATO-led In­
ternational Security Assistance Forces). (1.0, 1.5)
COIN (Counterinsurgency)—Coalition or Gov­
ernment. (1.0, 1.5, 1.7, 3.2)
COIN Control + Patronage—Total Population 
under COIN Control plus Patronage: the measure 
of Government victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3)
Control—Possession of more COIN or Taliban 
pieces in a Province or Kabul than all enemies 
combined. (1.7)
Cost—Resources for an Operation or Special Activ­
ity. (3.1, 4.1)
Cylinder—Token to mark a Faction’s Resources or 
Eligibility (1.8, 2.2)
Cube—Troops or Police piece. (1.4)
Cultivate—Warlord Special Activity to place a 
Base. (4.5.1)
Deception—Optional victory markers. (7.3)
Desertion—Removal of some Government 
pieces during the Redeploy phase. (6.5)
Dual Use—Event with 2 alternative effects. 
(5.2)
Economic Value (Econ)—Resources that an 
unSabotaged LoC will provide via Extort and in 
the Resources Phase. (1.3.4, 4.3.1, 6.3.1) 
Eligible—Faction able to execute Event or Op­
eration: per Faction order, 1st and 2nd Eligible. 
(2.3)
Enemy—Relationship between an Insurgent and 
any other Faction. (1.5)
Eradicate—Govt Special Activity to remove 
Warlord Bases and add Aid and Patronage. 
(4.3.3)
Event—Card with Faction order and text a Fac­
tion may execute. (2.3, 5.0)
Execute—Implement Event or conduct Opera­
tion or Special Activity. (2.3)
Extort—Taliban Special Activity that adds 
Resources. (4.3.1)
Faction—Player or Non-Player role: Coalition, 
Government, Taliban, Warlords. (1.5)
Faction Order—Card symbols determining 
Eligibility. (2.3.2)
PLAYER VICTORY: If the player does survive to the final Round 
with the highest victory margin, subtract the highest Non-player 
margin from the player’s to find the degree of success: 
• 1 to 5—Stalemate! While no Taliban takeover is in immediate 
prospect, neither is stability nor good governance. The Coalition 
withdraws with Afghans’ future still in doubt. 
• 6 or more, Player as Coalition—Surge Vindicated! Confounding 
the skeptics, well-resourced counterinsurgency has enabled 
modern Afghan institutions to gain popular support. National 
reconciliation is underway. 
• 6 or more, Player as Taliban—Glory to the Jihad! In the great 
tradition of the Pashtun warrior, the foreign infidel is once again 
evicted and true Islam restored to the land. 
EXAMPLE: A solo Taliban player avoids Non-player victory over 4 
Propaganda Rounds. At game end, with COIN Control + Patronage 
at 34, Govt has a 1 victory margin—the highest of the Non-players. 
Opposition is 9 and Taliban have all 12 Bases out, so the player’s 
victory margin is +1: 2 above Govt’s for a “Stalemate”.

Final—Last Event or Propaganda card. (2.3.8, 
2.4.1, 7.3)
Flip—Switch Guerrilla between Underground 
and Active. (1.4.3)
Forces—Troops, Police, Guerrillas, or Bases 
(pieces; not markers like Returnees). (1.4)
Free—Operation or Special Activity via Event 
that does not cost Resources or affect Eligibil­
ity. (3.1.2, 5.5)
Friendly—The executing Faction, or one COIN 
Faction to another. (1.5)
Govern—Govt Special Activity to place Return­
ees or gain Patronage. (4.3.1)
Government (Govt)—A COIN Faction. (1.0, 
1.5)
Guerrilla—Mobile Insurgent forces piece. 
(1.4)
Halo—Card Faction symbol showing Non-
player has an Event instruction. (8.4.1)
Hard—Islamabad track posture delaying Reset 
shifts. (6.6.1)
Hostility—Islamabad track box. (6.6.1)
Ineffective Events—Non-player avoidance of 
dud Events. (8.1).
Ineligible—Faction skipped in Faction order. 
(2.3.1-.2)
Infiltrate—Taliban Special Activity that re­
places pieces. (4.4.2)
Insurgent—Taliban or Warlords. (1.0, 1.5)
Islamabad—Track showing Pakistani posture 
toward the Taliban. (6.6.1)
Level—Support/Opposition status of a space. 
(1.6.1)
Limited Operation—Player Operation in 1 
space with no Special Activity. (2.3.5)
LoC—Line of Communication: Road. (1.3.4)
March—Insurgent Operation to move Guer­
rillas. (3.3.2)
Momentum—Events whose effects remain 
through next Propaganda Round. (5.4)
Mountain—Province type that hinders Govt 
Assault. (1.3.2, 3.2.4)
Non-Player—Game-run Faction. (1.5, 8.0)
Neutral—Space not in Support nor Opposi­
tion. (1.6.1)
Open Deployment—Option with latitude in 
forces set up. (2.1)
Operation (Op)—Core action Faction takes 
with its forces. (3.0)
Opposition—A space’s population against the 
Government. (1.6)
Opposition + Bases—Total Opposition plus 
number of Taliban Bases on the map: the mea­
sure of Taliban victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3)
Overflow—Boxes and markers to help manage 
cases of overcrowding. (1.4)
Pakistan—A type of Province where only 
Taliban may stack. (1.3.2, 1.4.2)
Pass—Decline to execute an Event or Op when 
Eligible. (2.3.3)
Patrol—COIN Op to protect LoCs. (3.2.2)
Patronage—A measure of the Government’s 
success in diverting wealth to its friends. (1.8, 1.9, 
3.2.1, 4.3.1-.3, 4.4.2, 4.5.2-.3, 6.2, 7.2-.3)
Pashtun—A space of that ethnicity, affecting Tal­
iban and Warlords. (1.3.2-.3, 3.3.1-.2, 4.3.1)
Pawn—Token to designate spaces selected for Op­
eration (red) or Special Activity (white). (3.1.1)
Phase—Part of a Propaganda Round. (6.0)
Piece—Force unit: Troop or Police cube, Guerrilla, 
or Base (not marker like Returnees). (1.4)
Place—Move a piece from Available to map. 
(1.4.1)
Plains—Province type that does not hinder Govt 
Assault. (1.3.2, 3.2.4)
Police—Government forces that maintain rural 
control and hinder crime. (1.4)
Population (Pop)—The inhabitants of a Province 
or Kabul, about 1 million Afghans per point. 
(1.3.2-.3)
Pressure—Islamabad track box. (6.6.1)
Priorities—Rules guiding Non-player Factions. 
(8.0)
Propaganda—Cards triggering Rounds that 
include victory checks, Resource acquisition, and 
several other periodic functions. (2.4, 6.0)
Province—Rural space. (1.3.2)
Rally—Insurgent Operation to place or regroup 
pieces. (3.3.1)
Redeploy—Propaganda phase in which Factions 
move pieces. (6.5)
Remove—Take from map (forces to Available or 
Casualties). (1.4.1, 3.3.3)
Replace—Move pieces between Available and 
map. (1.4.1)
Reset—Propaganda phase to ready for the next 
card. (6.6)
Resources—Factions’ wherewithal for Opera­
tions. (1.8)
Returnees—Markers that add +1 Population. 
(4.3.1)
Road—Highway, a LoC. (1.3.4)
Sabotage—Place a Sabotage marker on a LoC that 
does not have one, damaging it to block Patrol, 
Transport, and addition of Government and Warlord 
Resources. (3.3.4, 6.2, 6.3)
Select—Choose an action’s locations or targets. 
(3.1, 3.1.1, 4.1, 5.1)
Set—Shift a space’s Support/Opposition to a pre­
scribed level. (1.6.1)
Shaded—2nd choice of Dual-Use Event, often 
anti-Coalition. (5.2)
Sharia—Taliban action to increase Opposition. 
(6.4.2)
Shift—Change Support/Opposition or Islamabad’s 
posture. (1.6.1, 6.6.1)
Space—Map area holding pieces in play: Prov­
ince, Kabul, LoC. (1.3.1)
Special Activities—Actions accompanying 
Operations, unique to a Faction. (4.0)
Sponsorship—Islamabad track box. (6.6.1)
Stacking—Limits on pieces that can occupy a 
space. (1.4.2)
Suborn—Warlords Special Activity to remove 
or flip pieces. (4.5.3)
Support—A space’s population favoring the 
Government. (1.6)
Support + Available—Total Population Sup­
port plus Available Coalition pieces: measure 
of Coalition victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3)
Surge—Coalition Special Activity to bring 
pieces on or off the map, add Aid. (4.2.1)
Sweep—COIN Operation to move Troops and 
flip Guerrillas Active. (3.2.3)
Taliban—An Insurgent Faction (“Students”) 
(1.0, 1.5)
Target—Enemy Faction or piece that is the 
object of an action. (3.1, 4.1)
Terror—Insurgent Operation that places marker 
of same name in a Province or Kabul or Sabotage 
on a LoC. (3.3.4)
Tolerance—Islamabad track box. (6.6.1)
Town—Map feature that bounds LoCs (not a 
space). (1.3.6)
Traffic—Warlords Special Activity to gain 
Resources. (4.5.2)
Train—COIN Operation to place pieces, buy 
Civic Action, or reduce Patronage. (3.2.1)
Transfer—Move Resources among Factions 
or value among Resources, Aid, and Patronage. 
(1.5.1, 1.6, 4.2.2, 4.3.1)
Transport—Govt Special Activity that moves 
Troops. (4.3.2)
Troops—Mobile COIN forces specializing in 
Sweep and rural Assault. (1.4)
Uncontrolled—Space with neither COIN nor 
Taliban Control. (1.7)
Uncontrolled Population—Total Afghan Popu­
lation under neither COIN nor Taliban Control, 
part of Warlord victory (1.9, 7.2-.3)
Underground—Guerrilla, symbol end down: 
not subject to Assault or Air Strike and capable 
of Terror, Infiltrate, or Ambush. (1.4.3, 3.3.4, 
4.3.1, 4.3.4)
Unshaded—1st choice of Dual-Use Event, often 
pro-Coalition. (5.2)
Victory Margin—Calculation of a Faction’s 
closeness to its victory condition. (7.3)
Warlords—An Insurgent Faction: regional 
strongmen and narco-traffickers. (1.0, 1.5)

AVAILABLE FORCES: (1.4.1)
(Total, before set up)
	 	
 Coalition Government 
 Warlords
20 x	
 Police	
 Guerrillas	
15 x
 Bases	
6 x	
 3 x	
 12 x	
 12 x
SET UP (2.1)
General
Choose a scenario from the next page and any no Non-player (1.5), 
Sudden Propaganda (2.3.7), Deception (7.3), No Capabilities 
(below), or Open Deployment (right) options. Prepare the deck 
per the instructions below. Give each player a Faction foldout. 
Then assign each a Faction:
1-player—Coalition or Taliban
2-player—Coalition, Taliban
3-player—Coalition, Taliban, Government
4-player—A Faction each
Deck Preparation
Separate out the 6 Propaganda cards and shuffle the 72 Event 
cards. 
•	 Randomly remove and reveal the number of Event cards 
specified in the scenario—any Capabilities (5.3) among them 
are in effect, unshaded for Coalition Capabilities and shaded 
for Taliban (place their markers in their Capabilities boxes). 
The cards set aside otherwise will not be used. 
	 No Capabilities Option: If preferred for reduced complexity, 
do not place removed Capabilities into effect.
•	 Split remaining Event cards into the number of roughly (or, if 
desired, exactly) equal piles specified. Shuffle 1 Propaganda 
card into each pile and stack 1 pile onto the other to form a 
face-down draw deck in easy view of all players (set aside any 
remaining Propaganda cards). 
Open Deployment Option
As an alternative to the standard deployment on the next page, 
set up markers and non-player forces as specified, including 
Support and +1Pop. Then set up player forces in the following 
order (within Stacking, 1.4.2) and adjust Control (1.7) and victory 
markers (1.9). 
Short Scenario: 2009-2012
Warlords: 5 Bases and 5 Guerrillas among any Afghan spaces.
Government: 2 Troops and 2 Police in Kabul; 2 Bases, 16 Troops, 
and 16 Police among any Afghan Population 1 or 2 Provinces.
Taliban: 1 Base in each Pakistan space; 6 Bases and 19 Guerrillas 
among any Pashtun spaces (including in Pakistan).
Coalition: 1 Base and 3 Troops in Kabul; 5 Bases and 11 Troops 
among any Afghan spaces.
Main Scenario: 2005-2012
Warlords: 7 Bases and 7 Guerrillas among any Afghan spaces.
Government: 2 Troops and 2 Police in Kabul; 5 Troops and 8 
Police among any Afghan Population 1 or 2 Provinces.
Taliban: 1 Base in each Waziristan and Northwest Frontier; 
6 Bases and 14 Guerrillas among any Pashtun spaces (including 
in Pakistan).
Coalition: 1 Base and 2 Troops in Kabul; 6 Troops among any 
Afghan spaces.
Extended Scenario: 2003-2012
Warlords: 2 Bases and 2 Guerrillas among any Afghan spaces.
Government: 2 Troops and 2 Police in Kabul; 2 Troops and 2 
Police among any Afghan Population 1 or 2 Provinces.
Taliban: 1 Base in each Waziristan and Northwest Frontier; 
2 Bases and 6 Guerrillas among any Pashtun spaces (including 
in Pakistan).
Coalition: 1 Base and 1 Troop in Kabul; 4 Troops among Afghan 
Pashtun spaces (including Kabul).

SCENARIOS (2.1)
Main: 2005-2013
Taliban Resurgent—With key Coalition 
partners focused on Iraq, the Taliban hit 
running speed.…
Deck: Remove 12 random Event cards and 
1 Propaganda card. Shuffle and stack 5 
Aid: 15
Resources: Government 30, Warlords 15, 
Taliban 10.
Support + Available: 17
COIN + Patronage: 17
Opposition + Bases: 8
Uncontrolled Pop: 9
Kabul: COIN Control, +1Pop
	 Coalition—1 Base, 2 Troops
	 Taliban—1 Guerrilla
Farah, Faryab, Balkh: 
Helmand, Nuristan: Taliban Control
	 Taliban—1 Guerrilla
Oruzgan, Paktika, Zabol, Ghazni: 
Taliban Control
Khowst: COIN Control, +1Pop
Konduz: COIN Control
Waziristan, Northwest Frontier: Taliban 
Control
Extended: 2003-2013
The Afghan Insurgency—Post-OEF Af­
ghanistan, deceptively quiet, is about to 
explode.…
Deck: Use all cards. Shuffle and stack 6 
Aid: 9
Resources: Government 20, Warlords 10, 
Taliban 5. 
Support + Available: 20
COIN + Patronage: 13
Opposition + Bases: 4
Uncontrolled Pop: 16
Kabul: COIN Control
Helmand: 
Paktika, Zabol: Taliban Control
Khowst: COIN Control
Konduz: 
Waziristan, Northwest Frontier: Taliban 
Control
Short: 2009-2013
Obama’s War—The new US Administration 
surges in to finish the job.…
Deck: Remove 24 random Event cards and 
2 Propaganda cards. Shuffle and stack 4 
Aid: 24
Resources: Government 30, Warlords 20, 
Taliban 15. 
Support + Available: 10
COIN + Patronage: 21
Opposition + Bases: 9
Uncontrolled Pop: 13
Kabul: COIN Control, Support, +1Pop
	 Govt—1 Base, 2 Troops, 2 Police
Farah, Balkh: 
Helmand: COIN Control
	 Coalition—1 Base, 2 Troops
Oruzgan, Nuristan: 
	 Taliban—2 Guerrillas
Ghazni, Paktika, Khowst: COIN Control 
(Khowst only: +1Pop)
	 Coalition—1 Base, 1 Troop
Zabol: Taliban Control
Konduz: COIN Control, +1Pop
	 Govt—1 Base, 2 Troops, 2 Police
Baghlan: +1Pop
Balochistan, Waziristan, Northwest 
Frontier: Taliban Control
GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 
• www.GMTGames.com