What actions you can perform in the game are 
determined by the cards you have in your hand and 
deck. Each nation has its own set of location and 
empire cards. You increase the range of actions 
available to you by adding cards to your discard pile, 
which eventually becomes your draw deck. Cards come 
in two general types, location cards and empire cards. 
You add location cards to your deck by settling new 
locations or capturing them from the enemy. Empire 
cards are simply drafted, although some of them have 
to be paid for.
Each player starts with control of a number of locations, 
and has the corresponding location cards in his starting 
deck. Location cards may be used to settle new 
locations, develop existing locations, build fortifications, 
and launch attacks. Locations may also provide a means 
of transport, income, settlers and militia.
Empire cards comprise of a variety of different types of 
cards. Many of these have a military function, such as 
regular infantry and siege artillery. Other cards increase 
the range of actions available to you, such as the 
governor card, which allows you to remove cards from 
your hand. You need to tailor the cards in your deck to 
suit your objectives. If you wish to develop your towns 
speedily then it will help to have more settler cards 
in your deck. If you want to win through sheer force 
of arms then draft military cards. 
There are also neutral empire cards which can be 
drafted by either player. The most interesting of these 
are the Native American cards. Native Americans allow 
you to ambush and raid your opponent. Raids in 
particular can be most discomforting to your enemy, 
especially if he is British.
The game can end suddenly if one player captures a 
particular location, e.g. if the British take Quebec. 
It will also end if one player captures a certain number 
of cubes and discs from his opponent, or when he 
manages to place all of his discs or cubes on the board. 
In the latter two cases players add up points to see 
who has won.
‘A Few Acres of Snow’ is a two player game about the struggle between Britain and France 
for control of North America, fought out during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
A Few Acres of Snow
Components
As well as this rules book and the playing board you should also have the following items:
12 British town discs
9 French town discs
18 British village cubes
18 French village cubes
1 British siege 
location marker
1 French siege 
location marker
12 fortification discs
2 Player Aid cards per 
language
2 Siege strength markers
Money 
15 x silver, worth one each
15 x gold, worth five each
110 cards
 Limited edition
If you have a limited edition version of this game then you will 
find a different set of pieces in the box. The village cubes are 
replaced by the small houses, the town discs by the large 
houses, the fortification discs by the fort shapes, and the plastic 
money by wooden money. Please keep this in mind while 
reading the rules, as some of the terms used will not match 
the pieces you have.

The Board
French starting locations are coloured in blue. Blue village cubes 
should be placed in the blue square locations and a blue town 
disc in the blue circular location.
Defence modifier 
adjusts the starting 
point of the siege 
strength marker on 
the Siege Track.
River connection, which 
will require bateaux to 
travel along.
Road connection, which 
will require wagons to 
travel along.
Indian trail 
These can only be used 
to raid along, not for 
settling or attacking.
British starting locations are coloured in red. Red village cubes 
should be placed in the red square locations and red town discs 
in the red circular locations.
All locations that have 
a ship symbol are 
connected to all other 
locations with a ship 
symbol. The symbol also 
indicates that cards with 
ship symbols on can be 
used if a siege occurs here.
Victory points scored 
at the end of the game. 
You double the points if 
you have a town disc in 
the location.
Settler symbol
This indicates that you 
must expend a card with a 
settler symbol on it to be 
able to settle the location.
Neutral location
Each player has a series of named spaces on his side of the board 
which are used to hold cards. At the start of the game each player 
will shuffle and place his initial draw deck face down in the Draw 
Deck space. Your location cards should be placed in your Available 
Location Cards space. They do not need shuffling as you will be 
taking cards from here as a result of settling and winning sieges. 
It is recommended that you sort the cards into alphabetical order to 
make it easier to find the required card. Your empire cards should 
be placed in your Available Empire Cards space. Once again, these 
do not need shuffling, as you will be selecting cards from here at 
your discretion rather than randomly drawing them. As you play 
cards you place them on to your discard pile. When your draw deck 
is exhausted you shuffle your discard pile to make a new draw deck. 
The British and French Siege Card spaces are used to place cards 
that have been used in a siege.

The Cards
There are two card types, location cards and empire cards. Location cards have a named location on them. 
All cards without a location named on them are empire cards. Cards also come with five different border 
colours. Those with a deep or light red border can only be used by the British player. Those with a dark or 
light blue border can only be used by the French player. Cards with a green border are neutral and can be 
used by either player. The deep red and dark blue bordered cards are also the initial draw decks for the 
British and French players.
Example of a location card
Name of location
Connected locations
Border colour and ‘I’ 
indicates that it is part 
of the French player’s 
initial draw deck
Symbols
Transport 
required to travel 
to connected 
locations
Example of an empire card
Cost to draft the card
Border colour 
indicates that it is 
part of the British 
player’s available 
empire card deck
This symbol 
indicates that the 
card is vulnerable 
to ambushes
Parchment – text and symbols in this box detail the powers or use of the 
card. Certain actions require you to play a card with a specific symbol on. 
That symbol must appear in this box to be of use to you.
Card symbols 
Many of the cards have a parchment area at the bottom which contains text and/or symbols. The text will 
explain the action/s that can be carried out by the card. The symbols vary in their use/employment as 
explained below:
IMPORTANT NOTE: The British and French players do not have identical sets of 
location cards. Many of the British locations do not appear in the set of available 
French location cards. Where locations card do occur in both sets, they may have 
the same or different connections and may have different symbols.
Bateaux – a card with this symbol 
travel along a river or lake.
Fur – a card with this symbol 
on can be used in conjunction 
with a trader card to earn money 
(two money per fur card played).
Money – a card with this symbol 
on can be played to earn the 
amount of money shown in 
the coin.
Wagon – a card with this symbol 
travel along a road.
Settler – a card with this symbol 
settle a location that also has this 
symbol in it. It can also be used 
to develop a village into a town.
Military strength – a card with 
this symbol or symbols on can be 
played to add to your strength in 
a siege. Each such symbol on the 
card is worth one strength point.
Ship – a card with this symbol 
on can be played to allow travel 
by sea. It can also be used to 
add to your strength in a siege 
if the besieged location has a 
ship symbol next to it.
Ambush – a card with this 
symbol on is vulnerable to being 
ambushed.

Starting the game
Playing the game
Each player should select a side and take the corresponding 
wooden pieces and cards. Each player should have:
An initial draw deck (dark red/blue border).
An available location card deck (light red/blue border).
An available empire card deck (light red/blue border). 
You shuffle your initial draw deck and place it face down in your 
draw deck space. Your location cards and the empire cards should 
be placed face up in the spaces indicated. These decks do not 
require shuffling.
The neutral empire cards (green border) should be placed face up 
by the side of the board so that each type of card can be clearly seen 
(it makes sense to stack cards of the same type to save table space).
Place the money by the side of the board to form a bank. The French 
player starts with five money and the British player starts with 
twelve money.
Each player starts with a number of cubes and discs on the board, 
which represent settled locations. Cubes represent villages and 
discs represent towns. Certain locations are already coloured red 
and blue, to indicate which side they are initially controlled by. 
The British player should place one cube in each red square location 
and one disc in each red circular location. The French player should 
do likewise in each blue location. Having a cube or disc in a location 
indicates that you control it.
Each player draws five cards from the top of his draw deck to make 
his hand. 
Players take turns, alternating between the two, until either a 
player achieves an outright win or the game ends due to one player 
exhausting his supply of cubes or discs. The British player always 
takes the first turn.
The first thing you must do when it is your turn is to check to see 
whether you have won a siege combat. Once you have done this 
you perform two actions. The only exception to this is the first turn, 
where both players perform only one action each. 
Once you have completed your actions you draw cards from your 
draw deck to bring your hand of cards up to five. As soon as your 
draw deck is exhausted you shuffle your discard pile and place it 
face down to form a new draw deck. You may end the turn with 
more than five cards in your hand. If this is the situation then you 
do not discard down to five cards. 
The following rules are not laid out in the order that phases occur. 
The rules dealing with winning a siege can be found following 
those describing how to initiate a siege.
Each turn, after checking to see if you have won a siege combat, 
you perform two actions (plus any ‘free actions’ you wish to take). 
You only take one action on your first turn of the game.
Each action is a discrete event and should be resolved before you 
perform your second action. You can perform the same action twice. 
There are some actions which are free actions. These do not count 
towards your two actions and can be performed at any time during 
your turn, irrelevant of what other actions you are performing.
Cards that you play are placed onto your discard pile. The only 
exception to this are cards played to a siege combat. These cards 
should be placed in the correct siege card space, depending on 
whether you are the attacker or the defender. 
Each player should be attempting to expand his ‘empire’ in North 
America. The following actions allow him to do this in some way:
•	Settle a location
•	Develop a location
•	Fortify a location
These actions involve players in some form of conflict.
•	Besiege a location
•	Reinforce a siege
•	Raid
•	Ambush
•	Priest/Indian leader
These actions allow you to gain money.
•	Take money
•	Merchant
•	Trader	
•	Piracy (French player only)
Card management actions
These actions allow you to manage your cards in some manner.
•	Draft one empire card
•	Discard card/s
•	Place one card in reserve
•	Retrieve your reserve (free action)
•	Governor
•	Intendant
•	Home Support (free action)
•	Withdraw from a siege (free action)
•	Pass
	 Player actions

Settle a location
This action allows you to place one of your cubes in a neutral 
location (one that does not already contain a cube or disc). You must 
first play a location card that connects to the location you wish to 
settle. Each location card has a list of locations that it connects to. 
It also shows the type of transport required to reach those locations, 
which will either be bateaux, ship, or wagon. You must then play 
a second card that has the correct transport symbol on it. If the 
location you intend to settle has a settler symbol in it then you must 
play a third card that has a settler symbol on it. Remember, the only 
symbols that can be used appear in the parchment area of 
the card.
Once you have played the necessary cards you place one of your 
village cubes in the newly settled location. You then take the 
location card for that location from your deck of available location 
cards and place it on top of your discard pile. Please do not forget to 
do this as you will not then gain the benefit of settling the location. 
The number of cubes you have places a limit on the number of 
locations you can settle.
Example: The British player wishes to settle Deerfield. To do so he 
must play the New Haven card. He must then play a card with a bateaux 
symbol on it (he plays St. Mary’s). As Deerfield has a settler symbol in it 
he must also play a card with a settler symbol on it (he plays Boston). 
He then places a cube in the Deerfield location, and takes the Deerfield 
card from his available non-location cards and places it on top of his 
discard pile.
Example:
The French player wishes to settle Fort Niagara. To do so he must play 
the Fort Frontenac card. He must then play a card with a bateaux 
symbol on it (he plays a bateaux card). He does not have to play a 
card with a settler symbol on it. He places a cube on the location 
and adds the Fort Niagara card to his discard pile.

Develop a location
A cube in a location represents a village. You can replace a cube 
with a disc, which represents a town. To do so you must first 
play the location card for the location that you intend to develop. 
You must then play a second card that has a settler symbol on it. 
You then retrieve your cube from the location and replace it with 
one of your discs. The cube goes back into your available stock. 
The main reason to develop a location is that you gain double the 
victory points for that location at the end of the game.
You can only develop locations that have a victory point value, 
which will be indicated next to the location on the board. The 
number of discs you have imposes a limit on the number of 
locations you can develop.
Example: The British player wishes to develop Albany. He must play 
the Albany card and then a second card that has a settler symbol on 
it. He chooses to play the St, Mary’s card as his second card. He then 
replaces the cube in Albany with a disc.
Note that the British player has the potential to develop Oswego, 
as it has a victory point value. Conversely, he could not develop 
Fort Stanwick as it does not have a victory point value.
Fortify a location
To fortify a location you must play a 
fortification card and the location card for 
the location you wish to fortify. You must 
also pay three money to the bank. You then 
place a fortification disc under the cube 
or disc in the location. A location can only 
have one fortification disc in it. A fortified 
location starts a siege with an additional 
siege strength of two, and is also immune to 
raids. The number of fortification discs is a 
limit to the number of times this action can 
be selected.
 Important restrictions on the use of location cards
You cannot use a location card in any manner if you do not have 
control of that location or if it is not connected to either Boston 
(if you are the British) or Quebec (if you are the French), or if it is 
under siege. You control a location if you have a cube or disc in 
it. A location is connected to Boston/Quebec if it can trace a series 
of connections via controlled locations. These connections can 
be rivers, lakes, roads, or the sea, but not Indian trails. For the 
purposes of tracing a connection back to Boston/Quebec, 
locations that have ship symbols next to them are considered 
to be connected to every other location with a ship symbol next 
to it. Locations along the edge of the same lake are all regarded 
as being connected to each other.
You can still discard such cards or remove them from your hand 
via the governor action.
Besiege a location
At some point in time you may wish to attack your opponent, with 
the intention of taking control of one of his locations, or at least 
rendering it neutral.
You must first play a location card that connects to the location you 
intend to besiege. You must then play a card with the necessary 
transport symbol on it (in exactly the same way as if you intended 
to settle the location). You must then play one card that has at least 
one military symbol on it. The first two cards should be placed onto 
your discard pile. The third card, the one with a military strength, 
must be placed onto your Siege Card space. If you are the British 
player then you would place it in the British Siege Card space, 
if you are the French player then you would place it in the French 
Siege Card space.
You now take your siege location marker and place it near the 
location you are besieging. This is to remind you which location 
you are besieging.
The siege strength marker is now adjusted according to the initial 
strengths of the two sides. You must use the correct siege track, 
i.e. if you are the British player then you would use the British Siege 
Track. Place the siege strength marker in the ‘1’ space, in favour 
of the defender (every location has an intrinsic defence strength 
of one). Move it two spaces in the defender’s favour if there is a 
fortification disc in the location, and a further number of spaces 
equal to any defence modifier that appears next to the location. 
This is the defender’s initial strength. Now move the marker a 

 Use of location cards in sieges
If you play a location card to use its military strength then you 
can only use either the military strength symbol or the ship 
symbol, not both. E.g. if you played the New York card to a 
siege occurring in a location with a ship symbol next to it then 
you would only add one to your siege strength, either using the 
military symbol or the ship symbol.
Example: The British player decides to besiege Louisbourg. He plays 
the Halifax card (which is connected by sea to Louisbourg), a card with 
ship symbol on it , and a siege artillery card ( for which he must also pay 
three money). He places his siege marker by Louisbourg. The first two 
cards he plays go on to his discard pile, while the siege artillery card 
goes in to the British Siege Card space.
As well as having an intrinsic defence strength of one Louisbourg 
also has a modifier of one. The marker starts in the ‘2’ space in 
France’s favour.
The British player then adjusts the marker in his favour to record the 
three military strength points on the siege artillery card he played.
As his second action 
the British player plays 
a regular infantry card. 
He also plays a military 
leader card, which is a 
free action. He adjusts 
the marker three spaces 
in his favour. He places 
both cards in his British 
Siege Card space.
It is now the French player’s turn. He must now decide whether he is 
going to let Louisbourg fall or not. He decides to fight on. For his first 
action he plays a regular infantry card and for his second he plays the 
Port Royal card, which has a ship symbol on it. As Louisbourg has a ship 
symbol next to it this means the ship symbol on the card has a military 
strength of one. The French player moves the siege strength marker 
three spaces in his favour. He places both cards in his British Siege Card 
space on his side of the board. This makes Louisbourg safe for the 
moment. Note that the French player could not use the Louisbourg card 
itself as the location is under siege.
number of spaces in favour of the attacker according to the military 
strength of the third card he played.
The siege is now underway. It will last until one player either wins 
the siege or withdraws from it. A location can be under siege 
indefinitely. You can only attack one location at a time, although 
you may be involved in another siege as the defender.
Winning a siege combat
At the start of your turn you must check both Siege tracks to see 
whether you have won a siege combat.
If you are the attacker in a siege and the corresponding siege 
strength marker shows you have an advantage in strength of two 
or more, then you immediately win that combat. You remove the 
other player’s cube/disc from the location that you attacked and 
retain it (you will score victory points for capturing cubes and discs 
at the end of the game). You also remove and return to the stock 
any fortification disc in the location. If the location that you were 
attacking has a settler symbol in it then you must play one card 
from your hand that has a settler symbol on it if you wish to place 
one of your village cubes there . If the location does not have such 
a symbol on it then you place one of your cubes in the location. If 
you do place a cube on the location then you take the location card 
for that location from your available deck and place it on top your 
discard pile. This does not count as one of your actions. If you do 

Reinforce a siege
To increase your strength in a siege, whether 
you are the attacker or defender you can play 
one card that has one or more military symbols 
on it. You adjust the siege strength marker a 
number of spaces in your favour equal to the 
number of military symbols on the card. If there 
are two sieges in progress then you choose 
which one to use the card for.
The card you play must be placed in the corresponding siege card 
space. E.g. If the British are the besiegers and you are the French 
player then you would place your card in the British Siege Card 
space on your side of the board. This includes location cards that 
you play for their military strength.
You can only reinforce locations that you can trace a series of 
connections via controlled locations from either Quebec (if you are 
the French player) or Boston (if you are the British player). These 
connections may be made by river, lake, road and sea. Indian trails 
do not count as connections for this purpose. You do not need to 
play any cards to travel along these connections.
Fortification card A fortification card can be played in a siege 
BUT only by the defending player. When played this way it has a 
strength of one. Note that you cannot add a fortification disc to 
a location that is currently besieged.
Ship symbols A card with a ship symbol has a military 
strength of one if used in a siege that occurs in a location 
that has a ship symbol next to it. If a location card has 
a ship symbol and a military symbol then you can only 
use one of those symbols, the card would not add two to 
your strength.
Military leader Playing a military leader 
card is a free action and adds one to your 
siege strength. 
Raid
To launch a raid you play one or more cards 
that state they can be used to raid. One 
card allows you to raid a location directly 
connected to one that you control. Two cards 
allows you to raid a location within two 
connections, three cards allows a raid against 
a location within three connections, and so on. 
A Priest or Indian Leader card can be played to 
increase the range of the raid, just as if it were 
another card that allowed a raid. However, these cards cannot 
be used on their own to launch a raid.
You must pay one money for each Native Americans card that you 
play, not just the first one.
You can only raid along connections formed by rivers, roads, 
lakes, or Indian trails. You can utilise any combination of these 
connections. Locations along the edge of the same lake are all 
regarded as being connected to each other. You do not play any 
location cards to launch a raid and you do not need to play any 
transport symbols.
not place a cube then the location becomes neutral. Note that the 
losing player retains the location card for the location, although it 
is now useless. 
If you are the defender in a siege combat and you have an 
advantage in military strength of one or more, then you immediately 
win that combat. You retain control of the location. 
Once a siege has ended both players retrieve their cards from the 
corresponding siege card space, i.e. if the British were the besiegers 
then each player would take their cards from the British Siege Card 
space. The winner places all of his cards on to his discard pile. The 
losing player must select one of the cards to be placed back in his 
empire deck or neutral empire display before placing the remainder 
onto his discard pile. He cannot choose to lose a location card. The 
French player could choose the infantry card that is part of his initial 
draw deck. If the loser is not able to select a card for removal then 
he does not do so. The attacker’s siege location marker should 
be retrieved.
Example: In the British siege of Louisbourg the British player has 
managed to gain the upper hand. At the start of his turn the siege 
marker shows that he has an advantage of three strength points, which 
means that he wins the siege. The blue cube is removed and claimed 
by the British player. As Louisbourg has a settler symbol in it the British 
player must now choose whether he wishes to play a card with such a 
symbol to be able to place a cube of his own there. He chooses to do 
so and plays the New York card. He then places one of his cubes in the 
location. He then takes the Louisbourg location card from his location 
card deck and places it on his discard pile.
The French player must choose one empire card to return to his empire 
deck from the cards in his siege space. He then returns the remaining 
cards to his discard pile. The British player returns all of the cards in his 
siege space to his discard pile.
Note that the French player does not remove the Louisbourg card from 
those in his active deck. This card is now effectively useless.

Ambush
You play one card that has the ability to 
ambush. The other player may now block 
this with a card that states that it can do 
this. This card must be played from the hand, 
not the reserve. The card used to block an 
ambush is placed onto the player’s discard 
pile. Your opponent does not have to pay to 
use a Native Americans’ card to block you.
If the ambush is not blocked then the opposing player 
must select one card that has the ‘ambush symbol 
(as shown here) from either his hand or his reserve to 
place back on his empire deck. If the player does not have 
such a card in his hand then he must prove this to you by 
showing you his hand. He would then not lose a card.
Priest/Indian 
leader
When you play one 
of these cards your 
opponent must give 
you one neutral Native 
Americans card from 
either his hand or his 
reserve. You then place 
that card onto your 
discard pile. If he does 
not have such a card 
then he must show you 
his hand to prove that 
this is the case.
You can raid beyond a location that contains an enemy cube or disc. 
You cannot raid a location that has a fortification disc in it, nor can 
you raid beyond such a location.
Your opponent now has the opportunity to block the raid. He can 
do so by playing one card from his hand that states that it can block 
a raid. Your opponent can also block the raid by playing the location 
card for location that is being raided. The card played to block the 
raid is then placed onto his discard pile. Your opponent does not 
have to pay money to play a Native American card to block a raid.
If the raid is not blocked then you take the cube or disc from the 
raided location. If you took a disc from the location then your 
opponent replaces it with a cube, i.e. a town becomes a village. 
You retain this cube/disc and it will score victory points at the end 
of the game. 
Example: From Kennebec the French player could launch raids against 
Fort Halifax, Deerfield, Pemaquid, and Boston. A raid against Boston 
would require the play of three eligible cards. 
In this example Deerfield has been fortified. The French player could 
now only raid Fort Halifax or Pemaquid. Note that it would not be 
possible to raid Boston via Pemaquid.
You can regain control of a location that you have still have 
a location card for by taking the ‘settle a location’ action.

Take money
You play one location card and take an 
amount of money from the bank equal 
to the value indicated in the gold circle.
Merchant
You play one card with a ship symbol on it. 
You can then play one or two cards which 
have a gold symbol on and take the amount 
of money indicated.
When you play the trader card you then play 
one or more location cards that have the fur 
symbol on them. For each such card that you 
play you take two money from the bank.
Piracy
This action is only available to the French 
player. You play the Louisbourg card and 
another card with a ship symbol on it. You 
then take two money from the British player.
If the British player does not have sufficient 
money then you take any shortfall from 
the bank. 
Draft one empire card	
You choose one card from either your deck of 
available empire cards or one of the neutral 
empire cards and place it onto your discard 
pile. Check the card to see if you are required 
to pay any money to the bank. You can never 
take a card of your opponent’s colour, nor can 
you draft a location card.
E.g. If you drafted a neutral fortification card 
then you would have to pay three money to 
the bank.
Discard card/s
You can discard one or more cards from your hand, placing them 
onto your discard pile. You can discard one card at no cost. If you 
then wish to discard more cards you must pay one money for each 
additional card discarded, e.g. if you discarded three cards you 
would have to pay two money.
Place a card in your reserve
The reserve gives you the flexibility to place cards to 
one side so that you can pick them up later when they 
may be more useful. You select one card from your 
hand and place it face-up in the box marked ‘Reserve’. 
You can have up to five cards in your reserve. If you 
inadvertently go over this number and your opponent 
notices this they he must select a number cards from 
your reserve to bring the number down to five cards. 
These cards should be placed back with your 
available cards.
Retrieve your reserve
As a free action you can retrieve the cards in your reserve and place 
them back in your hand. You must pick up all of the cards in your 
reserve. You must pay one money for each card you retrieve. 
Note that you can have more than five cards in your hand.
When you play the governor card you also 
select any one or two cards from your hand 
and return them to the available cards. This is 
a way for you to reduce the number of cards 
in your deck. If you choose to remove a 
location card then you return it to your 
available location cards deck. If you choose an 
empire card then you return it to your empire 
card deck. If it is a neutral card then you 
return it to the neutral card display. You can 
always regain a previously removed card in 
later turns if you wish. To regain a location 
card you would have to ‘settle’ the location 
again, including the playing of a settler 
symbol card if necessary.
	 Card managment actions

Intendant
If you play the intendant card then you pay 
two money to the bank (French intendants 
were notoriously corrupt) and then select one 
card of your choice from your discard pile and 
place it in your hand.
Home support
Playing your home support card is a free 
action. You draw three cards from your deck.
If there are not enough cards in your draw 
deck then you shuffle your discard pile to 
make a new draw deck. You only discard 
this card after you have taken all three cards, 
i.e. you cannot end up playing this card and 
then drawing it again because you shuffled 
it into your discard pile. Note that it would 
be possible for you to play this card, then an 
Intendant to pick it up again, and then play it 
for a second time in the same turn.
Withdraw from a siege
You may choose to withdraw from a siege. You treat this as if you 
had lost the siege, i.e. you lose one empire card from those in your 
siege card space. The remaining cards are placed onto your discard 
pile. Your opponent also places the cards from his siege card space 
back onto his discard pile. Remove the siege marker from the 
location. This is a free action.
Pass
Simply do nothing. Passing does not stop you performing more 
actions in later turns. 
The British player wins immediately if he wins a siege in Quebec. 
The French player wins immediately if he wins a siege in Boston or 
New York. It is not necessary for a cube to be placed in the location 
to trigger the victory condition.
Otherwise the game lasts until one of the end game conditions has 
been met, which are:
a)	 If there are no sieges in progress at the start of a player’s turn 
and he has placed all of his discs OR cubes onto the board,
b)	If there are no sieges in progress at the start of a player’s turn 
and he has captured twelve points worth of cubes/discs from 
his opponent (a cube is worth two points and a disc is worth 
four points).
Each player now adds up the number of victory points he has. You 
score points as indicated for locations that you control, i.e. that you 
have a cube or disc in. If you have a disc in a location then you score 
double the number of points indicated. 
You also score two points for each of your opponents cubes that you 
captured and four points for each disc you captured.
The player who has the highest total of victory points is the winner. 
In the case of a tie then the French player is the winner.
Ending the game
Credits
Game designed by Martin Wallace 
Artwork by Peter Dennis 
Graphic design by Solid Colour 
German translation by Ferdi Köther 
French translation by Christophe Muller 
Italian translation by Andrea ‘Liga’ Ligabue
Playtested by Andy Ogden, Mike Young, Alan Paull, Richard 
Spilsbury, Richard Dewsbery, Jerry Elsmore, Alan McClenahan, 
Simon Bracegirdle, Nigel Drury, Michael Young, Peter Johnston, 
Coleman Charlton, Kurt Fischer, Dave Platnick and Al Roireau.
Historical commentary by John Ellis.
Thanks to Julia Wallace, James Hamilton, Richard Dewsbury, 
Andy Callan and David Gatheral.
If you have any difficulties then you can contact me at 
martin@treefroggames.com or check the Treefrog website, 
www.treefroggames.com for a faq. If you have any problems 
with damaged or missing pieces then please contact Julia at 
julia@treefroggames.com.
The rules to ‘A Few Acres of Snow’ are © Martin Wallace 2011.
All artwork is © Treefrog Limited.

Designer notes and tips on playing 
the game
The more astute gamer out there will have twigged that the central 
mechanism to ‘A Few Acres of Snow’ is highly influenced by the 
best selling card game, Dominion. I’m happy to adapt ideas from 
other games, as long as I feel that they fit the theme. The deck-
building element of the game builds in the delay between asking 
for something and getting it which was a major issue for the two 
combatants. This was a war fought at the end of a very long 
supply line.
The theme for the game was suggested to me by my friend, John 
Ellis, who also happens to be a military historian. He just happened 
to be doing some research on the period for a book and was struck 
by how much movement was limited to rivers. John has kindly 
provided the historical commentary that appears below.
I’ve played the game more times than any other single player (at the 
time of typing this) and I still have only a vague idea of the range of 
strategies that can be adopted. Thus I cannot give any proper advice 
on what may constitute good play. What I do know is that the first 
few times you play this game you will be overwhelmed by the range 
of possible actions available, and you will probably take a long time 
to finish the game. The first issue is a matter of experience, with a 
few plays you will realise that only a small number of actions are 
used on a regular basis, and that many depend on having the right 
card in your hand, so if you don’t have the card there’s no point 
in even thinking about that action. The second issue depends on 
whether player’s are putting pressure on each other. The most likely 
way for the game to end is for one player to place all of his town 
discs. If both players fail to develop their villages then it’s going to 
be a long game. If one player recognises that he has an advantage 
on points then he should be pushing to develop his villages as 
quickly as possible before the other player can react. 
The title is taken from a supposed quote by Voltaire (always good 
for a snappy line). It is meant to be his response to the news of the 
fall of Quebec, as in ‘Ha, it is only a few acres of snow’.
Martin Wallace

British cards
Initial Draw Deck
Boston
New Haven
New York
Norfolk
Pemaquid
Philadelphia
St. Mary’s
Available Location Cards
Albany
Baltimore
Canso
Cumberland
Deerfield
Detroit
Fort Beausejour
Fort Duquesne
Fort Frontenac
Fort Halifax
Fort Niagara
Fort Presqu’ Isle
Fort St. John
Fort Stanwix
Fort Venango
Fort William Henry
Gaspe
Halifax
Kennebec
Louisbourg
Oswego
Port Royal
Richmond
Tadoussac
Ticonderoga
Trois Rivieres
Available Empire Cards
Bateaux
Fortification
Home Support
Indian Leader
Military Leader
Militia x 3
Rangers
Regular Infantry x 6
Settlers
Ships x 2
Siege Artillery
Card manifest
French Cards
Initial Draw Deck
Gaspe
Louisbourg
Montreal
Quebec
Port Royal
Tadoussac
Trois Rivieres
Bateaux
Regular Infantry
Available Location Cards
Albany
Canso
Detroit
Fort Beausejour
Fort Duquesne
Fort Frontenac
Fort Halifax
Fort Niagara
Fort Presqu’ Isle
Fort St. John
Fort Stanwix
Fort Venango
Fort William Henry
Halifax
Kennebec
Michillimackinac
Oswego
Pemaquid
Ticonderoga
Available Empire Cards
Coureurs de Bois
Fortification
Home Support
Intendant
Military leader
Militia x 3
Native Americans
Priest x 2
Regular Infantry x 3
Ships
Siege Artillery
Neutral Cards
Fortification x 2
Native Americans x 5
Settlers x 2
Unless otherwise indicated there is one of each card listed.

In North America this rivalry was played out 
between a British-American enclave on the Atlantic 
seaboard, south of the St. Lawrence river (which 
would eventually make up the Thirteen Colonies) 
and the vast wintry wastes of New France (modern 
Canada) with its sparse European population mainly 
concentrated along the banks of the St. Lawrence. 
Each side wished to monopolize the local fur trade, 
as well as to control the naval bases vital for North 
Atlantic commerce. But the British were also haunted 
by a growing fear that the French planned a vast 
encircling movement, aiming to establish a cordon 
down through the Great Lakes and the Mississippi to 
link up with their other possessions in Louisiana.
This mutual envy and suspicion, however, did not 
lead to a state of permanent armed conflict, and was 
for the most part limited to encouraging occasional 
raids by Indian allies on isolated settlements and 
farms. Despite the fact that both sides maintained, 
on paper at least, local militia forces, these were only 
ever pitted against each other when Britain and France 
themselves became formally engaged in a European 
war. Only then did the mother countries demand 
that their colonial forces join in hostilities, sometimes 
aiding them by sending naval and expeditionary 
forces, inadequate though these usually were. 
European wars spilled over into North America on four 
separate occasions during this period :
•	 1687-97 – War of the League of Augsburg, 
known in America as King William’s War.
Ever since Ancient times, great wars have been driven by imperial rivalry. 
By the early 1700s such rivalries had become global. The two superpowers of 
the time, Britain and France, were engaged in a long drawn out struggle over 
their new colonial possessions in the Caribbean, North America and India. 
Each wished to secure their hold over the production and trade of valuable 
commodities such as sugar, tobacco, cotton, furs, silks, timber and tea.
A Few Acres of Snow 
– Historical Commentary by John Ellis 
•	 1701-14 – War of Spanish Succession, known 
in America as Queen Anne’s War.
•	 1739-48 – War of Jenkin’s Ear and War of 
Austrian Succession, known in America as 
King George’s War.
•	 1754-63 – Seven Years War*, known in 
America as the French and Indian War.
*Began in America two years earlier.
Only in the last of these wars did either side gain a 
decisive military advantage. The breakthrough came 
when a substantial British reinforcement allowed 
them to force their way up the St. Lawrence from 
both directions and take Quebec (1759) and Montreal 
(1760). Under the terms of the Treaty of Paris (1763), 
the French had to give up all their territories in what 
had once been grandly claimed as New France.
The actual conduct of the fighting in these wars 
was conditioned by several key factors but the 
most important among them was the question of 
geography. First of all there was the problem of the 
Atlantic Ocean. The sheer distances separating North 
American ports from Europe made it an enormous 
undertaking to supply or reinforce the colonies in 
time of war. While local militias might be sufficient 
to guard the frontier settlements, colonial economies 
were largely incapable of assembling on their own 
the necessary quantities of ordnance, ammunition 
and other military stores for large scale offensive 
operations. The convoys necessary to transport the 

men and materials required had to be laboriously put 
together in British and French ports and then often 
had to wait weeks for favourable winds. But even 
once at sea, these convoys were still at the mercy of 
uncertain navigational techniques and of the terrible 
storms that were a regular hazard of trans-Atlantic 
voyages. All these factors, as well as the long weeks 
even an uneventful voyage could take, made it almost 
impossible to co-ordinate the arrival of a fleet or 
convoy (assuming it arrived at all!) with the demands 
of local military strategy.
Geography also had a profound bearing upon 
operations on land. The climate itself was a serious 
constraint on military activity. Because of the severity 
of the North American winters, and the fearsome mud 
of subsequent spring thaws, actual campaigning was 
limited to the months from May to September. This 
crucially affected operational tempo and limited the 
time commanders had to finish off an enemy before 
his forces were able to recuperate in winter quarters 
or back at home.
The cockpit of each of these wars was the triangle 
of territory bordered by Lake Ontario and the St. 
Lawrence, the eastern seaboard, and the Potomac 
and Allegheny rivers. Throughout this region the 
terrain was given over almost entirely to thick forests 
and mountains, largely uninhabited and through 
which the construction of a military road, logistically 
indispensable, could consume the whole of a 
campaigning season. While sometimes there was 
no option but to laboriously hack out such roads, 
in the main armies preferred to make their strategic 
movements by water. The history of all four wars 
between 1687-1763 is dominated by such waterways 
as the St. Lawrence, Lake Ontario, the Mohawk, the 
Hudson, Lake Champlain and the Richelieu.
Given the crucial importance of these riverine arteries, 
the strategic options were strictly limited and both 
sides were always aware of the likely axis of any 
enemy advance. The best way to block such routes 
was to build forts at tactically advantageous points 
from which to bombard any amphibious armadas that 
might appear. Further progress would then demand 
that the fort be captured and this usually meant formal 
siege operations. These were tedious procedures 
which, even when successful, could take up so much 
of the campaigning season that useful exploitation 
of the victory was not possible, yet another brake on 
the all-important tempo of operations. Thus it is that 
any history of conflict in 18th century North America 
revolves around such forts as Ticonderoga, William 
Henry, Cumberland, Duquesne, Niagara, Oswego, and 
Frontenac. During the whole thirty nine years of open 
conflict there were only three major engagements 
that did not involve sieges or direct assaults on forts: 
namely, two pitched battles (Plains of Abraham (1759) 
and Quebec (1760) and one large scale ambush 
(Monongahela (1755). And each one of these took 
place in the immediate vicinity of a fort.
Geography and climate might be factors that were 
fixed and shared, but there were other considerations 
that tended to favour one side more than the other. 
One advantage for the French was that political 
control in Canada was highly centralized, making 
it easier for their powerful intendants to direct the 
deployment of their troops when and where they 
chose. The British colonial governors, on the other 
hand, had to work in collaboration with the local 
provincial assemblies, whose lower houses were 
democratically elected, with control over the raising 
of taxes and the issuing of paper currency used to pay 
enlistment bounties and purchase military supplies. 
Always suspicious of English royal authority, the 
assemblies proved consistently reluctant and tardy 
in providing local troops for proposed operations, 
troops that were vital given the absence of an 
adequate regular garrison in North America right 
up to the 1750s. Nor, indeed, was there any sort of 
central colonial authority, with the colonies each very 
suspicious of one another and very hesitant about 
agreeing to any sort of concerted action.
For a long time these factors served to lessen the 
impact of the great strategic imbalance between 
French and British North America, namely the growing 
disparity between their populations, which by 1755 
saw a mere 55,000 Canadians pitted against some 

1.5 million Americans. By the time of the Seven Years 
War, however, the British resolved finally to commit 
substantial numbers of regular troops to this theatre. 
By the end of the fighting, which effectively was over 
in North America by 1760, Britain had sent thirty 
regiments there as opposed to only twelve French. 
Such substantial regular forces allowed colonial 
units to be largely relegated to a garrison and line of 
communication role, duties they were much readier to 
undertake for a full season’s campaigning.
This increased commitment to North American 
operations was part of a grand strategy devised by 
Prime Minister William Pitt, who was convinced that 
France was most vulnerable in her colonies, rather 
than on the battlefields of Europe. The trans-Atlantic 
campaign was supported by a major effort by the 
Royal Navy, whose persistent blockade of the French 
coast meant that by 1760 the logistic lifeline with 
Canada had been almost completely cut. The financial 
cost of Pitt’s new strategy tells its own story. By 
1763, Britain had spent £4 million on North American 
operations whilst the French had committed barely a 
tenth of that, a totally inadequate sum for a bleak and 
distant colony that even in the best of times operated 
at not much above subsistence level.
Finally, some mention must be made of the role of the 
Indians in these wars. From their own point of view 
there were certain advantages to supporting either 
side. British goods traded for furs tended to be better 
quality than French and British rum was considerably 
cheaper than French brandy. The French, on the other 
hand, were much more obliging about supplying 
firearms and often made vital gunsmithing support 
available in Indian villages. Of course, for many tribes 
and villages, the key consideration was simply which 
of the Europeans was nearest and on the whole the 
Abenaki Confederation in the north sided with the 
French and the more southerly Iroquois Confederation 
with the British. From around 1700 the French gained 
an important advantage in this respect by persuading 
the Iroquois to remain largely neutral, whilst the 
Iroquois themselves became adept at playing off one 
side against the other by threatening to abandon that 
‘neutrality’. But once Pitt’s major reinforcement began 
to make itself felt, the Iroquois, and many Abenaki, 
quickly sensed which way the wind was blowing and 
became increasingly active on the British side.
In most North American expeditions, while Indians 
made up a significant proportion of the forces 
involved, it remains difficult to assess their overall 
military value. Their usefulness was limited by their 
narrow self-interest, sudden desertions, resistance 
to any kind of military discipline, and partiality to 
plunder, alcohol and scalps. Over the period of conflict 
as a whole, it might be argued that any advantage 
they gave to one side over the other was, on the 
whole, to the benefit of the French. This is because 
fear of Abenaki raids contributed to the reluctance of 
British colonists to undertake the kind of militia service 
that would take them too far or too long away from 
their homes.
The capture of Montreal, in September 1760, 
represented the culmination of a considerable feat of 
arms by the British. Now, at last, their North American 
colonies were safe from the threat, albeit exaggerated, 
of encirclement along the Mississippi. In achieving this 
the British had given proof of their increasing mastery 
of colonial warfare, combining the ability to project 
power across the Atlantic, with the ability to maneuver 
troops effectively in a largely riverine theatre of 
operations. By the last year of the war, moreover, 
British commanders had also shown themselves 
to be adept at operating along very separate axes 
of advance, coordinating their joint descent on the 
French-Canadian capital with remarkable precision.
Yet this triumph proved very short-lived. In a little 
over twenty years the American colonies had been 
lost as their inhabitants, long resentful of British rule 
and taxation from afar, rose up, forged their own 
Continental Army and harried their erstwhile masters 
to surrender at Yorktown. Most galling of all for the 
British must have been the fact that this defeat owed 
much to the assistance of the French navy, a force 
which seemed to have been swept from the seas 
during the Seven Years War. But this humiliating 
ejection from the Thirteen Colonies was to have a 
silver lining. For whilst the part of North America that 
Britain did retain, i.e. Canada, proved too rugged 

and sparsely populated to add much to imperial 
prosperity, it no longer offered a threat to American 
settlers, allowing the rapid expansion of its increasingly 
buoyant economy. This in turn involved a considerable 
expansion of the maritime trade upon which they 
depended, trade which was increasingly carried by 
British merchant-shipping, to the enormous benefit 
of their owners, the merchants and the Exchequer. 
Depriving the French of their ‘few acres of snow’ proved 
ultimately to be the foundation stone of 19th century 
Atlantic economic hegemony.

Player turn sequence
1.	Check to see if you have won a siege.
2.	Perform two actions (only one action in the very first turn).
3.	Refill hand to five cards, (shuffle discard pile as soon as it is exhausted to make a new draw pile).
Settle a location – connected location card + transport symbol 
card (+ settler symbol card if required). Place cube in location 
and place location card onto your discard pile.
Develop a location – intended location card + settler symbol 
card. Replace cube with disc.
Fortify a location – Intended location card + fortification card 
+ three money. Place fortification disc in location.
	 Card management actions
Besiege a location – connected location card + transport 
symbol card + military symbol card (may be a ship symbol if the 
location has a ship symbol next to it). See rules for details.
Reinforce a siege – any one card that has a military strength. A 
ship symbol counts as one strength point if the location has a ship 
symbol next to it. Siege artillery requires you to pay an extra three 
money. Card must be placed in your siege card space. Playing a 
military leader is a free action.
Raid – Play a card that can perform the raid action. Raid a location 
connected to a location you control (river, road, Indian trail, or lake). 
Raid one location further on for each additional card you play that 
can raid (may use Priest/Indian Leader card). Opponent can block by 
playing a card that states that it can do so, or the location card for 
the location being raided. You cannot raid into or through a location 
with a fortification disc. If the raid succeeds then take the cube/disc 
from the location. The owner should replace a removed disc with a 
cube.
Ambush – Play a card that can perform the ambush action. 
Opponent can block by playing a suitable card. If not blocked then 
opponent must place one card, either from his hand or reserve, that 
has an ambush symbol on it back onto his available empire deck. 
If he does not have one then he must show you his hand to prove 
that this is the case.
Indian Leader/Priest – Your opponent must give you one neutral 
Native American card from his hand or reserve. If he does not have 
one he must show you his hand to prove that is the case. Place the 
Native American card on to your discard pile.
Take money – play one location card and take the amount of 
money indicated on it.
Merchant – play one card with a ship symbol on and then one or 
two cards with gold symbols on.
Trader card – earn two money for each card you play that has a 
fur symbol on it.
Piracy – French player only. Play the Louisbourg card with a ship 
symbol card. Take two money from the British player. If he does not 
have enough money to pay then take the shortfall from the bank.
Draft one card – take one empire or neutral card from those 
available. Pay money if necessary. Add the card to the top of your 
discard pile.
Discard cards – you can place one or more cards from your hand 
on to your discard pile. The first card discarded costs nothing, each 
additional discard costs one money.
Reserve one card – place one card into your reserve. You may have 
a maximum of five cards in your reserve.
Retrieving your reserve – take all of the cards from your reserve 
and place them back in your hand. You must pay one money for 
each card taken. If you cannot pay for all of the cards then you 
cannot perform this action. This is a free action.
Governor card – select two cards from your hand to place back 
with the available location/empire cards.
Intendant card – French player only. Pay two money to take one 
card of your choice from your discard pile.
Home Support card – Take three cards from your draw deck. 
This is a free action.
Withdraw from a siege – remove your siege marker from a 
besieged location. Treat as if you had lost the siege.
Pass – do nothing.