Uwe Rosenberg
Rulebook
“A Feast for Odin” is a saga in the form of a board game. You are reliving the cultural achievements, mercantile 
expeditions, and pillages of those tribes we know as “Vikings” today—a term that was used quite differently 
towards the end of the first millennium.
When the northerners went out for a raid, they used to say they headed out for a “viking.” Their Scandinavian 
ancestors, however, were much more than just pirates. They were explorers and founders of states. Leif Eriksson 
is said to be the first European in America, long before Columbus.
In what is known today as Normandy, the intruders were not called Vikings but “Normans.” One of them is the 
famous William the Conqueror who invaded England in 1066. He managed to do what the king of Norway failed 
to do only a few years prior: conquer the Throne of England.
The reason why the people of these times became such strong seafarers is due to their unfortunate agricultural 
situation. Crop shortfalls caused great distress.
In this game, you will raid and explore new territories. You will also experience their day-to-day activities: 
collecting goods to achieve a financially secure position in society.
In the end, the player whose possessions bear the greatest value will be declared the winner.

Game Boards
1 large action board with action spaces
4 home boards (one for each player)
1 oval supply board for the special tiles
1 small supply 
board for the 
ships
4 two-sided exploration boards
Dice
1 orange eight-sided 
die
1 blue twelve-sided 
die
Goods boxes
2 goods boxes to store the goods tiles
15 special tiles 
Tiles

Tiles
Money
125 silver coins, including: 
Wooden Goods
2 extension tiles to extend the action board
1 large round overview tile
Building tiles: 3 “shed” building tiles, 
3 “stone house” building tiles, 
5 “long house” building tiles
8 mountain strips
32 ship tiles, including:
10x whaling boats
12x knarrs
10x longships
32x wood, 24x stone, and 40x ore
Other Wooden Components
Food 
front side: farm product
back side: animal product
Animals 
front side: livestock
back side: pregnant dam
Equipment
front side: craft product 
back side: luxury good 
The back of each “Thing Penalty” is 
different: 5 wood, 5 stone, 3 ore, 3 bow and 
arrow, 3 snares, 3 spears, and 3 long swords.
25x peas / mead
18x sheep / pregnant sheep
15x cattle / pregnant cattle
20x flax / stockfish
20x beans / milk
20x grain / salt meat
17x cabbage / game meat
15x fruits / whale meat
43x oil / rune stone
30x hide / silverware
7 “Thing Penalty” tiles
30x wool / chest
20x linen / silk
20x skin and bones / spices
20x fur / jewelry
18x robe / treasure chest
15x clothing / silver hoard
48 Vikings 
(12 for each 
player)
1 brown 
start player 
moose 
1 white round 
tracking cube
12 plastic bags, 1 appendix, 
1 almanac, and this rulebook.
346 goods tiles, including: 
190 Occupations, 
divided in three decks A, B, and C
 45 light brown 
starting occupation 
cards
145 dark brown 
occupation cards
47 red Weapon cards
12x bow and arrow, 12x snare,
12x spear, 11x long sword
Craft Leader
before the Income phase
if you have 
at least 
5 Vikings 
on Crafting 
action spaces
Crafting
8 a
2/5/10
Weapons 
Supplier
with
longships
80x “1 Silver”
22x “2 Silver”
18x “4 Silver”
5x “10 Silver”

Before Your first Game
This game comes with a large number of goods tiles. In order to 
save you the hassle of storing the tiles in an assortment of plastic 
bags, we have provided two goods boxes so that you can better 
store and organize the goods tiles.
Each row stores goods of the same color and each column stores
goods of the same shape. Note that orange and red goods of the
same shape are on two sides of the same tile, as are green and
blue goods. Divide these goods (except for sheep and cattle) into
two piles and place each pile in its designated compartment.
For example, every “beans” tile has milk on the other side. 
The game provides more tiles than you would normally need, 
even more than you can fit into the goods boxes. Store any excess 
tiles as a reserve in the provided bags.
The following table shows how you should organize the goods 
tiles in the goods boxes. The goods boxes have alternating 
small and large compartments. In the first goods box, the small 
compartments are reserved for goods of the size of peas and 
beans, and the large ones are reserved for goods of the size of flax 
and grain. In the second goods box, the small compartments are 
meant for goods of the size of cabbage and fruits, and the large 
ones for goods of the size of sheep and cattle.
rune 
stone
silverware
chest
silk
spices
jewelry
treasure 
chest
silver hoard
oil
hide
wool
linen
skin and 
bones
fur
robe
clothing
mead
stockfish
milk
salt meat
game 
meat
sheep
whale 
meat
cattle
peas
flax
beans
grain
cabbage
fruits
Peas and mead are two sides of the same tile, as are oil and rune 
stone. Sheep and cattle are on both sides of their respective tiles.
setup 
Action Board and Goods Boxes
Place the large action board in the middle of the table. In a 
4-player game, add the two extension tiles to the game board as 
shown in the illustration, randomly choosing which side is face 
up. (In games with 1 to 3 players, you do not need these tiles.)
Open the goods boxes and place them on the table next to each 
other, so that all players can easily access them.
Supply Boards for Special Tiles and Ships
Place the supply boards for special tiles and ships next to the 
goods boxes. Aside from the blue standard goods in the top row 
of the goods boxes, there is a number of special tiles. Unlike the 
standard goods, which are supposed to be in unlimited supply, 
there is only one copy of each special tile. They are considered 
to be blue and follow the same rules as the blue good tiles. 
(Also, the special tiles are the same color on both sides.)
Place the special tiles on the oval supply board. The other supply 
board is for the three types of ships. Sort the ships by type and 
place them face up in separate stacks on the supply board.
The goods boxes
1 oval supply board for 
the special tiles
1 small supply board for the ships

Occupation and Weapon Cards
There is an “A”, “B” or “C” at the bottom right of the occupation 
cards, indicating to which deck each card belongs. We recommend 
beginners only use cards from deck A, while experienced players 
use cards from both deck B and C, or just shuffle every deck 
together. Sort the occupation cards according to their light or dark 
brown back to form two stacks.
An illustration at the top left of the game board indicates what you
receive at the start of the game: Each player draws 1 starting 
card from the stack of light brown occupation cards into their 
hand. (After that, remove the remaining light brown cards from 
the game.) Each player takes 1 “bow and arrow”, 1 “snare”, and 
1 “spear” weapon card, as well as 1 “mead” goods tile.
Shuffle the remaining weapon cards and place them face down 
in a stack on the table. Shuffle the occupation cards with a dark 
brown back and also place them face down in a stack on the table.
Your Personal Boards and the Vikings
Each player takes a home board.
The home boards are two-sided. One side is for a game lasting 
7 rounds (long game), the other for a game lasting over 6 rounds 
(short game). Decide how many rounds you wish to play and 
place the according side face up.
Each player chooses a color and takes 
the 12 Vikings in their color. 
Place a Viking on each numbered space of the “Banquet Table” 
track (at the top right) of your home board and the rest on the 
“Thing Square” (the Vikings’ meeting place). The latter are your 
starting Vikings. (Consequently, in the short game, you start the 
game with one more Viking.)
To the right of the Thing Square, there is the bay with landing 
stages for ships. To the left of the Thing Square, there is the main 
placement area for your valuable goods.
Do not open yet!
Do not open yet!
These are your starting cards along with 
1 mead. Always keep all tiles and cards face 
up in front of you and visible to all players. 
By no means will you need 
all of the cards each game. 
Set up only part of them and 
replenish the stack later, if 
need be.
GAME START
Build Houses
Build Ships
Your starting card suggests which path 
you might want to take during the course 
of the game.
Place 7 Vikings on the “Banquet Table” track 
(only 6 in the short game).
Thing Square
Banquet Table
Placement area 
for goods
space
Income 
diagonal
Landing 
stages
Stables for sheep 
and cattle
Waiting space for 
the solo game
The long game is the main version of the game. We recommend the short game to all players who would like 
to familiarize themselves with the game mechanics first. On the other hand, veteran players who know every 
aspect of the game by heart might find the shorter version more challenging.
-1
Peddler
total cost
Livestock 
Market
1A
1A
Occupations
dark brown
light brown
Weapons

Mountain Strips, Building Resources, and Silver
Shuffle the eight mountain strips and turn two of them face up 
(three strips in a 4-player game). The remaining mountain strips 
form a face down draw pile. Place the depicted goods on the spaces 
of the face up mountain strips. 
Sort the remaining wood, stone, ore, and silver tokens by type and 
place them ready at hand.
Exploration Boards
Lay out the four exploration boards with their “Shetland”, 
“Faroe Islands”, “Iceland”, and “Greenland” sides facing up in 
that order.
Building Tiles 
Place the “shed”, “stone house”, and “long house” building tiles 
in separate stacks on the table.
Overview Tiles
Place the round overview tile on the table and place the white 
round tracking cube on space 1.
General overview
How to Play the Game
The basic principle of the game is simple. Each round, you place 
your Vikings on the spaces of the action board and take the chosen 
actions immediately.
What You Want to Achieve
Your goal is to cover the spaces in the placement area of your 
home board with green and blue goods tiles. If you leave gaps, 
you can fill them with ore and silver (as shown below).
To get the goods tiles in the first place, you will either need
to obtain them by raiding (in the Viking fashion) or receive them 
in exchange for farm goods.
This information bar depicts how to place goods in the 
placement area of your home board. The green and blue color 
stands for the respective goods.
Overseas trading plays a special role in all of this. It allows you to turn any number of different green goods (representing craft 
products) into blue luxury goods in a single action. (How turning a lot of green goods into blue ones may benefit you is explained 
in the “Anytime Actions” section on page 12.)
Because each action space can only 
be occupied once per round, you will 
quickly get in each other’s way.
Mountain strips at the start of a game 
with up to 3 players
The letters A to D on the bottom 
right of the boards indicate their 
front sides.
At any time, you can place 
tiles, ore tokens and silver 
coins from your supply onto 
your home board. Once on 
your home board, you cannot 
take them back.
Ore
Silver

Income
The big numbers across the placement area of your home board 
represent income values. The smallest visible income value 
indicates your income for the current round (described further on 
page 9).
Bonus
Some spaces of your home board feature goods symbols. 
There are five goods spaces on 
your home board.
You receive these goods each 
round as a bonus once you have 
covered all spaces surrounding 
them.
• Sooner or later you may wish to cover the goods spaces to 
increase your income. (By doing so, you forfeit the bonus.) 
In the first example, the 
mead space was covered. 
In this one, it is completely 
enclosed. Here, you would 
get a bonus of 1 mead each 
round. 
• During the game, you can explore new territories and add them 
to your home board. You will need ships to do so.
To explore Iceland, for instance, 
you would need a knarr 
or a longship. 
What You Get Points For
At the end of the game, you will add the values of 
your ships, houses, exploration boards, and goods. 
Points are indicated by the shield symbol.
Your large ships can increase in value if you use them 
for emigration. (Simply turn them to the other side when 
that happens.) 
After each emigration, you 
will have one fewer ship at 
your disposal (here: 
a longship).
Your home board and the exploration boards have spaces that you 
must cover with goods tiles to avoid negative points. 
“Fur” can be effectively worth 
8 points if you use it to cover 
eight spaces with negative points. 
The sheds, stone houses, and long houses also have spaces with 
negative points, which you should cover with goods tiles.
• Sheds require wood and stone.
• The stone and long houses are special in that they allow you to 
place orange and red food tiles in them as well as the usual 
green and blue goods and silver coins, but not ore.
Note the two supporting pillars in the center of the long house: 
these cannot be covered.
This information bar depicts how to place 
goods in the placement areas of your houses 
(further described on page 12).
You gain additional points for sheep and cattle, which breed every 
other round, and for the occupation cards you have played.
The back sides of the animal 
tiles show pregnant dams. 
These are worth 1 additional 
point.
Occupations can be worth negative points. In 
this example, the Undertaker is worth -1 point.
The home board on the previous 
page would generate an income of 
2 silver.
placed a rune stone 
on an exploration 
board
Undertaker
100 b

Course of plaY
Randomly determine who receives the grey start player moose. 
The long game is played over 7 rounds (the short game over 
6 rounds). 
Each round consists of the following 12 phases, which are played 
one after another in that order. 
Phase 1: A New Viking
Take the leftmost Viking from the “Banquet Table” of your home 
board and place it with your other Vikings on the Thing Square. 
(The now empty space indicates the number of the current round.)
Each round, including the first, 
you receive a new Viking.
Phase 2: Harvest
Below the new round number, there is note indicating what you 
will receive during harvest.
Long game:
• During harvest, you can only get orange goods. 
• Take the goods from the general supply and place them in your 
personal supply.
The numbers on the tiles mean:
You receive one of each crop with a 1: peas, beans, and flax .
You receive one of each crop with a 1 or 2: peas, beans, flax, 
and grain.
You receive one of each crop with a 1, 2, or 3: peas, beans, 
flax, grain, and cabbage. 
You receive one of each crop with a 1, 2, 3, or 4: peas, beans, 
flax, grain, cabbage, and fruits. 
“No Harvest” means you do not get any goods in the harvest 
phase of that round.
Phase 3: Turn Exploration Boards and Placing Silver
In the action phase (phase 5), you can use your ships to claim 
additional placement areas on the exploration boards. Some 
exploration boards are available at the start, others become 
available later. This is why each exploration board that has not 
been claimed by a player is turned to its back side at some point. 
A symbol below the harvest notes on your home board indicates 
when to turn each exploration board. 
In round 3 (round 2 in the short game), turn Shetland, 
introducing Bear Island. 
In round 4 (round 3 in the short game), turn the Faroe 
Islands, introducing Baffin Island. 
In round 5 (round 4 in the short game), turn Iceland, 
introducing Labrador. 
In round 6 (round 5 in the short game), turn Greenland, 
introducing Newfoundland. 
Increasing the Value of an Unclaimed Exploration Board
Each round in which you should turn an exploration board (short 
game: rounds 2 to 5; long game: rounds 3 to 6), place 2 silver on
each unclaimed exploration board not being turned. Exploration 
boards that players have already taken do not receive silver.
• When you turn an exploration board with silver on it, return the 
silver to the general supply. 
• Place silver on the other exploration boards even if the 
exploration board that is supposed to be turned has already been 
claimed by a player. 
• There is no phase 3 in the first and last round. In those rounds, 
no exploration board is turned and no silver is placed on any 
of them.
We will explain the rules for the game with 2 to 4 players first. 
The solo game rules can be found on page 23. 
Example: In round 3, 2 silver are 
placed on the Faroe Islands. In 
round 4, the Faroe Islands are 
turned to become Baffin Island 
and the 2 silver placed there last 
round are returned to the general 
supply.
When you explain the game, it is a good idea to mention the goal of the game first and the phases of a round 
shortly after. You can show that the game is played over six or seven rounds by pointing the players to the seven 
Vikings on the “Banquet Table”. Once they are focused on that, you can easily explain the first three phases 
with the information provided below it.

Phase 4: Draw a New Weapon
Each players draws a new weapon card and places it face up in 
their supply.
You could draw a long sword, the only 
type of weapon you do not have from 
the start.
Phase 5: Actions
Beginning with the start player and in clockwise order, take 
one or more Vikings from your Thing Square and place them 
on exactly one unoccupied action space of the action board. 
Continue doing so until all players have passed or placed all of 
their available Vikings.
• You can pass even if you have Vikings left in your Thing Square. 
Once you have passed, you cannot place any more Vikings that 
round. (When you have none left, you must pass.) 
Important: each action space can only be occupied once per round. 
Another important rule: each action space in the first column 
requires one Viking to activate. Each action space in the 
second/third/fourth column requires two/three/four Vikings, 
respectively.
The effect of each action space is explained in the next major 
section (starting on page 14). You can tell what most effects do 
from their illustration.
• You must use an action space immediately after you occupy it. 
To occupy an action space, you must use at least one of its effects 
(paying a cost is also considered an effect in and of itself).
• The action spaces on the action board are 
organized in groups of similar effects. The 
wood grain background helps to emphasize 
this. The type of action spaces in each group 
is stated in the left margin of the action board.
Also, note the actions you can take at any time 
during the course of the game (see page 12).
 
 
• The action phase ends as soon as all players have placed all of 
their Vikings or passed.
• Due to the varying number of Vikings that are required on each 
action space, some players can run out of Vikings earlier than 
others. A player without Vikings must pass. Continue until all 
players have passed.
Phase 6: Determine Start Player
The player who placed Vikings last in the action phase receives 
the start player moose and will be the start player in the next 
action phase.
Phase 7: Income 
During the game, you will place green, blue goods tiles, ore tokens 
and silver coins on your home board. The smallest uncovered 
value on the “income diagonal” indicates the amount of silver 
you receive this phase. 
• Important: You must cover the income values in ascending 
diagonal order. This is explained further on page 12 
(Anytime Actions).
During your first play, you might be 
overwhelmed by the sheer number of 
action spaces. Concentrate in the early 
game on exploring the available options. 
Use the first few rounds to prepare yourself 
for what is to come. You will take the really 
important and crucial actions later.
This game differentiates between income 
and bonuses. Income is paid in silver 
(this phase), bonuses are paid in goods 
(phase 10).
In this example, “5” is the 
smallest uncovered value, so 
you would receive an income of 
5 silver.

• By claiming exploration boards, you can produce additional 
income. Income from an exploration board is handled like 
income from your home board (see also appendix, page 15).
Phase 8: Animal Breeding
At the bottom right of your home board, you can find storage 
spaces (stables) for your “sheep” and “cattle” goods tiles. Please 
note that these tiles show the same animal on both sides—one 
side shows the non-pregnant animal, the other the pregnant one.
In this phase, your animals breed, according to the following rules: 
• If you have at least 1 sheep with the “pregnant sheep” side 
facing up, turn all of them to the other side and take 1 “sheep” 
tile for each tile you just turned (and place them with the “non-
pregnant” side facing up in your stable).
• If you have at least 2 sheep but no “pregnant sheep”, turn 1 of 
them to the “pregnant sheep” side. 
The same applies to cattle. 
Examples of Animal Breeding: 
• You have three sheep, one of which is pregnant. The pregnant one 
gets a newborn, the other two remain non-pregnant. Afterward 
you have four non-pregnant sheep.
• You have four non-pregnant sheep. Still, you can only turn one 
of them to the pregnant side.
• You have two sheep, one of which is pregnant. During the action 
phase, you spend the non-pregnant one. In the breeding phase 
of that round, you are now left with a single pregnant sheep. It 
still receives a newborn, even though it is the only sheep in the 
stable. (C’est la vie.)
Phase 9: Feast
This phase focuses on the spaces of the “Banquet Table” track 
with no Vikings. 
In this example: 3 spaces have Vikings on them, 9 are empty. 
Place orange and red food tiles from your supply (or stable) 
and/or “1 silver” coins on each empty space of the “Banquet 
Table”, according to the following rules: 
• Orange tiles (farm products) cannot be placed next to each other. 
• Red tiles (animal products) also cannot be placed next to 
each other.
• Silver 
coins 
can 
be 
placed 
next 
to 
each 
other. 
(Ore cannot be placed on the “Banquet Table”.)
• One tile of each type may be placed horizontally to take up 
more space at the table (like salt meat in the example below). All 
other tiles of that type must be placed vertically (square tiles are 
exempt from this rule, as it does not matter).
You should serve salt meat only once per feast to be efficient. 
Bean dishes, on the other hand, can be served multiple times 
without penalty.
Every tile you place on the “Banquet Table” must cover at least 
one of the squares below the table and fit in the allowed space 
(it cannot overhang). If you are not careful, you may have to 
inefficiently place several tiles vertically to follow this rule.
When explaining the game, now is a good time to explain, in 
detail, the placement of green and blue goods tiles on your 
home board. Income is where these rules really matter a lot. 
Earlier, on page 6, we gave a general overview of these rules. 
A more elaborate explanation will follow on page 12.
Now let us continue with the sequence of a round.
Consequently, your sheep and cattle can 
breed every 2 rounds.
These rules are also depicted below the Banquet Table.
The designer’s love for bean dishes 
should be well-known. Vikings were very 
thoughtful about what they ate. Too much 
salt meat is unhealthy.

1111
Thing Penalty
• For each space of your “Banquet Table” on which you could 
not or did not want to place anything, you must take a “Thing 
Penalty” tile and place it in your supply. You must keep these 
tiles for the rest of the game. (This should not happen too often, 
because the feast happens after you receive income. Income 
should always provide enough silver to cover the spaces.)
At the end of the game, you lose 3 points for each penalty tile 
you have.
At the end of this phase, move the goods on your “Banquet Table” 
to the general supply. 
This empty space means you must take a penalty tile.
Phase 10: Bonus
Some spaces in the placement area of your home board show a 
goods symbol. These spaces count as already covered, but you 
can cover them with goods tiles, if need be (according to the 
placement rules, see “Anytime Actions” on page 12). If you leave 
a goods space uncovered, but instead cover the 8 spaces around it, 
you will receive that good as a bonus each round.
The depicted ore space is on the edge of the 
placement area, so you only need to cover five 
spaces around it to receive ore as a bonus.
• You receive your bonus all at the 
same time. 
Phase 11: Update and Add New Mountain Strips
Mountain strips provide building resources that you can get 
during the action phase (see the “Mountain and Trading Actions” 
on page 15).
Acquire your resources here.
• In this phase, remove the leftmost resource (i.e., closest to the 
arrow) from each face-up mountain strip and return it to the 
general supply (this can be wood, stone, ore or silver). 
If all spaces are empty, remove the mountain strip.
• Then turn a new mountain strip face up and place the depicted 
goods on it. (This way there can be more face-up mountain strips 
than at the start of the game.)
At the left, the mountain strip at the top is about to be removed.
 At the right, the mountain strip at the bottom has just been 
added.
• In the 4-player long game, there are not enough mountain strips 
for all 7 rounds. You simply do not add any in round 7. 
Phase 12: Remove Placed Vikings from the Action Board
Return your Vikings from the action board to your Thing Square. 
(Then proceed with phase 1 of the next round.)
Tip for experienced players: if you place goods tiles in your placement area before the income phase, you will 
then receive silver that you can use right away to possibly get bonuses as well. (For instance, the silver that 
enabled the ore bonus in the example above could have been silver the player received that round.)
The player whose home board is 
shown to the left would receive 
1 mead, 1 wood, 1 stone, and 1 ore 
each round.

Anytime Actions 
There is a variety of actions you can take literally at any time 
during the game (usually even during a main action).
Placing Goods on the Home Board
As mentioned several times before, at any time, you can place 
green craft products and blue luxury goods as well as silver coins 
and ore tokens on empty spaces in the placement area of your 
home board, according to the following rules:
The spaces with the big numbers (0, 1, 2, 3, …) form the 
“income diagonal” (see “Income” on page 9). You can only 
cover a space in the income diagonal if you also cover (or have 
already covered) all spaces:
• to the left of that space,
• below that space,
• as well as all spaces in the square to the bottom left of 
the space. 
Spaces with goods symbols are considered covered already.
• The placement areas depict growing squares in order to remind 
you of these placement rules. 
• Green tiles cannot be orthogonally adjacent to other 
green tiles (diagonal adjacency is allowed). (An 
illustration on your home board reminds you of that.)
• Blue tiles can be adjacent to other blue tiles, as can silver coins 
to other silver coins, and ore tokens to other ore tokens. 
• When you place a goods, you cannot place it on top of another 
goods that is already there (not even partially). You can, however, 
cover spaces with goods symbols (see Bonus on page 7). Keep 
in mind, goods spaces are considered covered already
• Each goods you place must be placed within the bounds of the 
placement area. 
The home board has three 
additional spaces at the top 
right, so that you can place 
bigger tiles like the treasure 
chest during the end game.
• The special tiles are considered to be blue and follows the same 
rules as the blue good tiles. 
Here is an example of how to cover the spaces in the top right 
corner without covering the income spaces that you are not 
allowed to cover.
In the early game, you can cover 
3 numbers with a single tile (here: 
using a robe). (Unfortunately, if 
you do, you will also cover the 
mead space, losing a potential 
mead bonus.)
In the example depicted 
to the left, you could 
place a “skin and 
bones” or “ wool” tile 
to cover income spaces 
“3” and “4” at the 
same time, because by 
doing so all required 
spaces will also be 
covered.
Occasionally, players will ignore this rule 
unintentionally. If you notice the mistake 
too late, see page 23 for a way to handle 
that.
To avoid negative points, you are explicitly 
allowed to place goods wherever you like 
in the placement area, as long as you do 
not cover income spaces that you are not 
allowed to cover (see the example below).

Placing Goods on the Exploration Boards
As with the home board: at any time, you may place green craft 
products and blue luxury goods as well as silver coins and ore 
tokens on empty spaces of the exploration boards, according to 
the same rules. 
A lot of goods spaces on the exploration boards are surrounded 
by less than 8 other spaces, which makes it easier to enclose them 
for the bonus.
To unlock the rune stone and ore bonus on Bear Island, you only 
need to cover six spaces.
Placing Goods on the House Tiles 
At any time, you may place orange farm goods, red animal 
products, green craft products, and blue luxury goods as well as 
silver coins on empty spaces of your houses. 
Orange tiles cannot be orthogonally adjacent to other orange tiles, 
and red tiles cannot be orthogonally adjacent to other red tiles 
(diagonal adjacency is allowed, as shown in the illustration on 
the house tiles). 
Note that you cannot cover the pillar spaces in the long house.
The following applies to all of the anytime actions: 
Once you place a goods tile on a board or house, you cannot take 
it back. 
You may, of course, test tile placements in order to plan ahead, as 
long as you take them back before continuing.
During phases 7 and 10, all income and bonuses are generated 
at the same time; consequently, you may not use the income/
bonuses from one board to place game pieces on another board 
in the same phase.
Buying Ships
At any time, you may buy a ship by paying its cost in silver. The 
cost of a ship is equal to its value (also depicted on the supply 
board for ships). Instead of buying ships, you may build them 
with wood by using a “Ship Building” action space (see page 15).
• The whaling boats are small boats. 
• Knarrs and longships are considered “large ships.”
 
Each ship you acquire must be placed in your bay, on a landing 
stage of appropriate size (you cannot place whaling boats on the 
larger spaces).
Changing Silver
At any time, you may make change with your silver 
coins. Silver comes in denominations of “1 silver”, 
“2 silver”, “4 silver”, and “10 silver”.
Arming
At any time (including immediately before, but not during an
action), you may place ore from your supply on the designated 
spaces of your whaling boats and longships. 
You may not take back the ore you place on your ships. 
Although you cannot take back tiles once 
you placed them, we still recommend 
you place as many as you can before the 
income and bonus phases. Especially the 
large tiles as they belong on the boards 
and not in your supply.
Note that there might be spaces in the 
center of an exploration board that 
you are not allowed to cover with 
goods, like the “5” on Bear Island. 
These spaces have a very prominent 
green border.
Each whaling boat costs 3 silver, 
each knarr 5 silver, and 
each longship 8 silver.
The silver coins are designed such that 
you can place them in the placement areas 
and houses.
Longship are used for raiding and pillaging 
(see pages 17 - 18). 
Whaling boats are used for whaling (see 
page 18). They show 1 preprinted ore and 
provide space for 1 more ore.
The knarr costs 5 silver.

Occupations
Many occupations provide actions you can take at any time. (see 
page 21). 
The blue background color indicates an anytime action on an 
occupation card. 
Giving Away
You cannot simply give away or discard goods, ships, boards, or 
cards outside of an action.
The Action Spaces 
The action board features a variety of action spaces. (How and 
when to use them has been explained in the “Phase 5: Actions” 
section on page 9.) 
General rule: 
Some actions require you to have a specific type of ship. You may 
use the same ship multiple times per round for different actions. 
Example: You have a single longship in your bay. With this ship, 
you can
• head out on a raid first
• then explore “Newfoundland”,
• and emigrate that same round.
Production spaces
On the green spaces of the action board, 
you receive exactly what is depicted, 
e.g., 1 stockfish.
In particular: 
Here, you receive 1 milk if you have 
1 cattle, 2 milk if you have 2 cattle, and 
3 milk if you have 3 or more cattle.
Here, you receive 1 wool if you have 
1 sheep, 2 wool if you have 2 sheep, and 
3 wool if you have 3 or more sheep.
Here, you receive 1 spices and 1 silver. 
Additionally, you receive 2 milk if you 
have at least 1 cattle, and 1 wool if you 
have at least 1 sheep.
On this space, you receive wood and ore 
from the general supply. While you only 
ever get 1 ore here, you also get 1 wood 
per player: in a 1/2/3/4 player game, this is
1/2/3/4 wood. 
In general: 
If a good costs silver, the price is printed 
below a purse icon at the left of the action 
space. 1 cattle and 1 milk cost a total of 
3 silver. 
Farmer
(or
 )
You can return such 
ore to your supply.
from
Modifier
All the actions mentioned in the example
above are explained on the following 
pages. Most action spaces (like the 
production spaces) have a rather simple 
effect, so we will explain those first.
Tip: Most new players overrate the Weekly Market. Your Vikings are well provided for during the harvests. 
Usually, you will not need much more food than that.
On the other hand, they tend to overlook the long-term potential of animal breeding.

Exchange Spaces
The dark yellow action spaces relate to house building, ship 
building, and crafting. On these, you exchange something (usually 
building resources from your supply) for something else, but only 
once. In particular: 
On the action space at the top left of the 
game board, you can pay 2 wood to receive 
a shed (see page 13 for what it does). 
Here, you may build a “stone house” and “long house” for 1 and 
2 stone, respectively (see page 13 for what they do).
Note that the number of shed and house tiles is limited.
Here, you may build the indicated ship (and only that ship) for 
1 or 2 wood:
The number of ships is not limited. The only limitation is the 
number of landing stages in your bay: you can only have up to 
3 whaling boats and up to 4 large ships (knarrs, longships).
On this space, you can choose what to get 
for 2 stone and 2 wood: either you take 
a stone house and a longship, or a long 
house and a knarr.
Here, you may exchange an orange “flax” 
tile for the larger and more valuable green 
“linen” tile.
On this space, you may spend green “hide” 
and “linen” tiles to make “clothing”, for 
which you also receive 2 silver. 
At the Smithy, you may spend 1 ore to 
receive a tile with a forge tongs symbol.
Jewelry tiles show a forge tongs symbol …
… as well as all the special tiles.
Here, you receive 4 silver. Additionally, 
you may exchange a green “wool” tile for 
a “robe” tile, and/or a blue “silverware” 
tile for a “jewelry” tile.
On these three action spaces, you can exchange stone and/or wood 
or ore for blue “rune stone” and “chest” tiles. On the first two of 
these spaces, you also receive 1 silver. 
Playing a single occupation costs 1 stone 
or 1 ore, and you receive 1 silver (see 
also “Occupation” on page 20). 
Here, you may exchange a whaling boat* for 
a knarr (if you wish), before using that knarr 
or another large ship to emigrate (more on 
emigration on page 17). 
* If the whaling boat you exchange has ore 
on it, you lose that ore.
Mountain and Trading Actions
Mountain Actions
Some of the golden brown action spaces allow you to take 
building resources and silver from mountain strips. 
When taking resources from a mountain strip, always 
take them from left to right (i.e., goods closest to the 
arrow first).
The 2 silver at the right are considered a single 
item. After taking the last “2 silver”, remove the 
mountain strip from the game.
The “Take 2 Building Resources” action 
allows you to take (up to) 2 items from one 
mountain strip of your choice. 
You may choose a mountain strip with fewer resources than you 
are allowed to take (you may not take resources from another 
mountain strip to make up for it).
The “Take 3+2 Building Resources” action 
allows you to take (up to) 3 items from one 
mountain strip and (up to) 2 items from another 
mountain strip. You may not take 5 resources 
from the same mountain strip.
For instance, you could take 3 wood from one mountain strip, and 
an ore and the silver from another.
The “Take 2+2+2+2 Building Resources” 
action allows you to take (up to) 2 items 
each from (up to) four mountain strips. 
Here, you cannot take 4 or 6 items from 
one mountain strip.

Trading Actions
The other golden brown action spaces allow you to exchange 
goods in your supply for more valuable ones. 
The “ñ1 Good” action allows you to exchange exactly 1 goods 
tile for the next more valuable one: either an orange for a red one, 
or a red for a green one, or a green for a blue one. The old and 
new tile must have the same shape and dimensions.
For example, you could use a 
“ñ 1 Good” action to exchange 
“game meat” for “skin and bones” 
once.
The “ñ2 Goods” action allows you to 
exchange up to 2 goods tiles for the next 
more valuable one. Both tiles may be of the 
same type, but you may not “upgrade” a 
single tile twice (from orange to green, or 
from red to blue).
The “ññ2Goods” action allows you 
to “upgrade” 2 goods twice: you may 
exchange an orange good for a green one, 
or a red good for a blue one. (In addition, 
you also take 4 resources from one 
mountain strip.)
Other action spaces on the game action board allow you to 
exchange more than 2 goods.
One of the action spaces described here 
also provides 4 weapon cards. This means 
you draw 4 random weapons (and place 
them face up in front of you). 
Blue, yellow, red, and brown action spaces are special. Blue 
stands for overseas trading, yellow for emigration, red for hunting, 
raiding, and pillaging. Brown is the color of occupation cards.
Knarr Action Spaces
Blue is the color of action spaces that require a knarr, providing 
blue luxury goods for trade.
Overseas Trading
The two “Overseas Trading” action spaces are located in the first and 
second column of the action board. On overseas trading spaces, you 
can pay 1 silver to turn any number of different green goods tiles to 
their blue side. To do so, however, you must have at least one knarr 
in your bay. 
• Green tiles in the placement areas of your boards may not be 
turned to their blue sides (you may not bypass the rule that 
disallows the placement of green tiles next to each other).
Special Sale
The “Special Sale” action space is located in the third column of 
the action board. 
Each special tile shows a silver cost. If you have at 
least one knarr, you can buy (up to) 2 special tiles 
by paying their cost. (The English Crown is the only 
special tile that may not be bought. We did ask Her 
Majesty Queen Elizabeth II when she was in Frankfurt 
on June 25th, 2015. She rejected our request in her 
usual polite manner.)
The Glass Beads cost nothing; the Helmet 
costs 1 silver.
Before you exchange your goods for more 
valuable ones via “ñGoods” actions, 
check how many and which goods you will 
need for the Feast phase. We recommend 
you place those goods on the “Banquet 
Table” during the action phase ahead 
of time.
In this example, during a single “Overseas Trading” action, you may turn 
1 oil, 1 hide, 1 wool, 1 linen, and 1 clothing to their blue sides. (The other linen 
tile must remain on its green side.)

Emigration
Yellow is the color of emigration. On “Emigration” action spaces, 
you may turn a knarr or a longship* in your possession to its back 
side and place it on the leftmost space of your “Banquet Table.” 
This tile is no longer a ship, but it reduces the amount of food you 
have to serve during a feast (see page 10).
The next time you emigrate, place the second ship to the right of 
the first one. As you can see, each time you emigrate, you need 
less food for the feast. In this example, the next feast will only 
require covering 5 spaces. 
• To take this action, you must pay an amount of silver equal to 
the current round.
• In the very rare case that you emigrated so frequently that there 
is no more space for another ship on the Banquet Table, you 
cannot take the emigration action anymore. 
* You lose the ore on the longship, if any.
Raiding, Pillaging, and Hunting
Red action spaces provide actions that require you to roll a die.
The orange eight-sided die is used on 
action spaces that depict an orange die 
symbol. The same applies to the blue 
twelve-sided die on action spaces with a 
blue die symbol.
In general: 
When raiding (with the orange die) and pillaging (with the blue 
die), you want to roll high. 
On spaces with a die symbol at the top of the action board, you 
want to roll low.
In each case, you may roll the die up to three times. (Each re-roll 
invalidates the previous roll.) You can stop rolling at any time. 
When finished (and after modifying the roll, if need be), announce 
your battle result. Then declare your die action a success or 
failure.
The following action spaces are each followed by an example.
Raiding 
To take a “Raiding” action, you must have at 
least one longship. It does not matter whether 
or not there is ore on the ship (see “Anytime 
Actions” on page 12), because you may not 
use it for this action anyway.
Every blue goods tile has a 
sword value. After you roll the 
orange eight-sided die, you can 
take exactly one blue goods tile 
with a sword value equal to or 
lower than you rolled.* Each 
stone and “long sword” weapon 
card you spend increases your 
die roll by 1 (even above 8). This 
modified value is considered 
your “battle result.” 
Your raid automatically 
fails if your battle result 
is 5 or less. 
Regardless of the 
result, you may 
willingly declare your 
raid a failure. Upon 
failure, you receive a 
consolatory 1 stone and 
1 long sword**** from 
the general supply.
 
You do not lose any Vikings in the process 
of emigration. (Your Viking figures 
represent the leaders of your tribes, and 
they would never abandon you.)
At the left of the “Raiding” action space, there are stone 
and sword symbols. These symbols serve two purposes.
• They show which goods and weapons you may spend to 
increase your roll. 
• They remind you of the consolation prize you receive upon 
failure.
The symbols on the “Pillaging” and “Hunting” action spaces 
are to be treated the same way.
Sword value

Example of a Failed Raiding Attempt
You have a longship and take a “Raiding” action. 
The amount of ore on your longship is irrelevant, 
because you may not use it for raiding anyway. You 
take the orange die and roll 4 on your first roll, and 5 on the 
second. You want to do better, but you only roll 3 on your final 
roll. If you spend 2 stone and 1 long sword, the most you could 
get would be a battle result of 6, which is a rune stone. You 
decide it is better to declare the raid a failure and take your 
consolatory 1 stone and 1 long sword.
Pillaging 
As with “Raiding”, you want to roll high when pillaging.
To do so, you must have a longship. If you have more than one 
longship, you must use the longship with the most ore on it.
When pillaging, add 1 to 
your dice roll for each ore 
on your longship (even 
above 12), keeping the 
ore. After you roll the blue 
twelve-sided die, you can 
take exactly one blue goods 
tile with a sword value 
equal to or lower than you 
rolled.* You can spend stone 
and long swords from your 
supply to increase the roll 
by 1 per item spent. This 
modified value is considered 
your “battle result”. 
Your raid automatically 
fails if your battle result is 
5 or less. You may willingly 
declare it a failure, regardless 
of the result. 
Upon failure, you receive 
a consolatory 1 stone and 
1 long sword**** from the 
general supply. Additionally, 
after each failed pillaging 
attempt, you may return 
1 Viking from the respective 
action space to your Thing 
Square and use it again later 
that round.
The English Crown has the highest sword 
value and is worth 2 points.
At the bottom left of the “Pillaging” action spaces, 
you can see a Viking symbol and an arrow pointing 
left. This is a reminder of the consolatory Viking you 
receive upon failure.
* When taking a blue goods tile, you can take a regular blue tile 
or one of the special tiles (on the oval supply board). 
Example of a Successful Pillaging Attempt
You have a longship and 2 ore on it. You have 1 ore in your 
supply, which you decide to place on the longship before you 
take a “Pillaging” action. You take the blue die and roll 4 on 
your first roll. You could stop here, but you want to do better. 
Your second roll is 6. Since you only have one roll left, you 
decide to stop right here. You spend 1 long sword for a final 
battle result of 10: 6 from the roll, 3 from the ore on your 
longship, and 1 from the long sword. With that battle result, 
you take 1 “Jewelry” goods tile.
Hunting Game, Laying a Snare and Whaling
When hunting game and laying a snare, you roll the orange eight-
sided die. When whaling, you roll the blue twelve-sided die. In all 
of these cases, you want to roll low.
 
When whaling, reduce the 
value of your roll by one for 
each ore (even preprinted 
ore) on the whaling boat(s) 
you are using to perform the 
action (you keep the ore). 
This can lead to a negative 
value; any negative value is 
treated as a 0. 
Then, in every case (Hunting 
Game, Laying a Snare and 
whaling), pay a number 
of wood and/or proper 
weapons** equal to this 
value to declare a successful 
action and receive the reward 
depicted on the action 
space.***
If you declare your attempt 
at this action a failure, you 
do not have to pay anything. 
(You may not declare a result 
of 0 as a failure.) 
Upon failure, you receive 
a consolatory 1 wood and 
1 weapon**** of the proper 
type** from the general 
supply. Additionally, when 
you fail laying a snare, you 
may return 1 Viking from 
the action space to your 
Thing Square. When you 
fail whaling, you may even 
return 2 Vikings. You may 
use the returned Vikings 
again later that round.
Let us talk a little bit about the luck factor in this game. Rolling 
dice is frowned upon in development games—with good 
reason. In this game, failure is designed such that it is only 
marginally worse than, for example, taking 2 stone (compared 
to stone and long sword) or 2 wood (see failure in the next 
section) from a mountain strip. When you fail, 
your next roll is more likely to succeed. Bad 
rolls do not prevent success, they just delay it 
a little. For me, it is an essential part of the 
game to provide that feeling of adventure.

1919
** These are “bow and arrow”, “snare”, and “spear” for hunting 
game, laying a snare, and whaling, respectively.
*** For hunting game, you receive 1 hide and 1 game meat. 
For laying a snare, you receive 1 fur and 1 “snare” weapon 
card. For whaling, you receive 1 oil, 1 “skin and bones” 
tile, and 1 whale meat.
Example of a Failed Game Hunting Attempt
You take a “Hunting Game” action. Since the “Hunting 
Game” action space in the first column is already taken, you 
place 2 Vikings on the “Hunting Game” action space in the 
second column. You take the orange die and try to roll low. 
Your first roll is 3, but you are not happy about it. So you try 
again and roll 7, which is way too high. Your third roll is 4. 
If you spent, for instance, 2 wood and 
2 “bow and arrow” weapon cards, you 
could declare the hunt a success, but you 
decide that the cost is too high. So you 
declare your attempt a failure and receive 
your consolatory 1 wood and 1 “bow and 
arrow” weapon card. (Even though you 
failed, you do not receive a Viking back. 
You would only receive one back after a 
failed “Laying a Snare” attempt, which works much the same 
as “Hunting Game”—the only difference being that you would 
use snares instead.)
**** When you receive a consolatory weapon card (for failing) 
or a reward snare (for successfully laying a snare), take 
this weapon from the face up discard pile. If you cannot 
find one in there, look through the draw pile and take it 
from there. Then shuffle the draw pile.
2 (your die roll) minus 
2 (ore on the ship) 
equals a result of 0.
If your battle result is 0, you may not declare the attempt a failure. 
You must stop immediately, and you may not re-roll.
At the bottom left of the “Whaling” action spaces, you 
can see two Viking symbols and an arrow pointing left. 
This reminds you of the 2 consolatory Vikings you can 
return to your Thing Square on failure.
Peculiarities of Whaling 
There are two different “Whaling” action spaces. 
On the major “Whaling” action space 
(at the left), you can use one to three 
of your whaling boats. In column 4 (at 
the right), there is a minor “Whaling” 
action space, on which you can only use 
a single whaling boat.
Example of a Successful Whaling Attempt
You have 2 whaling boats, each equipped with 1 additional ore. 
Before you take the “Whaling” action in the third column of 
the action board, you decide to purchase another whaling boat, 
but you have no ore to place on it. You take the blue die and 
roll 8 on your first roll. If you stopped right here, you would 
have to pay 3 spears/wood to be successful, because the 5 ore 
on your whaling boats would reduce the 8 to 3. So you roll 
again, rolling 4 on your second roll. Subtracting 5 from that 
results in a negative value, which is treated as a 0. Since your 
roll resulted in 0, you must stop immediately and declare your 
attempt a success.
The “Plundering” action space is also 
considered a red action space. Here, you can 
extort ransom money in the form of a blue 
“silver hoard” goods tile without battle—but 
you must have at least two longships to do so.
When given the choice to spend a weapon 
instead of wood, spend the weapon. As 
with real life, wood is more versatile than 
weapons.
You may wonder why whaling with 3 whaling boats only 
requires 3 Vikings, while whaling with a single whaling boat 
requires 4. The latter is only a minor action space, meaning it 
is intended for players for whom whaling is just a side project, 
since they have so few whaling boats. 
Similarly, there are two types of action spaces 
that require a longship. Pillaging works best 
with longships that are equipped with lots 
of ore. Raiding and Plundering can be done 
with longships that are low on ore.
Hunting game
Laying a snare
Whaling

Exploration
Orange is the color of exploration. By exploring, you may 
add exploration boards to your home board to gain additional 
placement areas. There are four unique exploration boards—
which side faces up depends on the current round (see phase 3 
of a round on page 8). When taking an exploration action, place 
the required number of Vikings on the action space and take the 
corresponding exploration board. 
If there is silver on the exploration board you claim, place it in 
your supply. 
The exploration boards are explained in detail on page 15 of the 
appendix. 
• In order to take “Shetland” or “Faroe Islands” 
exploration board, you must have a whaling 
boat, knarr, or longship, and you must place 
1 Viking. This is only possible on the action 
space requiring 1 Viking. 
• “Iceland”, “Greenland”, and “Bear Island” 
each require a knarr or longship, as well as 
2 Vikings. 
• Places on the American continent (“Baffin 
Island”, “Labrador”, and “Newfoundland”) 
each require 3 Vikings and a longship.
In all of the above cases, you keep the ship you explore with.
Occupation
You start the game with a single light brown occupation card (see 
Setup), which you keep hidden in your hand. During the game, 
you will receive additional dark brown occupation cards. You 
must play an occupation card before you can use its effect (see 
also the following section “About the Occupation Card Effects”).
On this action space, you draw a random dark 
brown occupation card from the draw pile 
and put it into your hand. Additionally, you 
receive 1 silver. 
Here, you may pay 1 stone or 1 ore to play an 
occupation card from your hand. Additionally, 
you receive 1 silver. 
Here, you may play up to 2 occupation cards 
from your hand, one after another. 
On this action space, you may play up to 
4 occupation cards from your hand, one 
after another. (An interesting interaction 
between this action space and another rule 
is explained below.)
Bonus for Placing Three Vikings 
Each time you place the three required Vikings on an action space 
in the third column, before taking the action, you receive a dark 
brown occupation card from the draw pile into your hand. You 
may look at that card immediately. (This bonus is only available 
on action spaces in the third column.)
The previously mentioned action space is located in the third 
column. It is the only action space, on which you may draw an 
occupation card and play it right away. 
Bonus for Placing Four Vikings 
Each time you place the four required Vikings on an action space in 
the fourth column, before or after taking the action, you may play an 
occupation card from your hand. (This bonus is only available on 
action spaces in the fourth column.)
• You can use the effect of the played card immediately. 
• If you do not have any occupation cards left in your hand, you 
cannot play one, obviously.
Extension Tiles in the 4-Player Game
The grey action spaces on the extension tiles allow you to use 
an action space in the same column that is occupied by another 
player. (You cannot imitate unoccupied action spaces or those 
occupied by your Vikings.) In each 4-player game, only two 
of the four columns feature imitation: either the first or second 
column, and either the third or fourth column. This is determined 
at random during setup. 
In this example, the first and fourth column feature imitation. 
• Like the other action spaces, imitation action spaces can only be 
used once per round. 

aBout the oCCupation Card effeCts
Every occupation card has the same layout. Its name is at the top 
left, its point value at the top right, and its effect at the bottom.
The Slash
Several card effects use a slash (/) in their description. 
Basically, the slash stands for “either—or”, but we 
would like to illustrate its use with some examples: 
The Tradesman lets you exchange 1 silverware for 
either 1 chest or 1 silk.
If a card has multiple elements with slashes (/), these 
elements relate to each other in their respective order. 
Here, you can choose whether you want to spend 2, 4, or 6 
silver to receive 1, 2, or 3 hides, respectively.
It is important that you only choose at most one of 
the listed elements. This card provides either 1 bean, 
1 grain, or 1 cabbage, depending on whether you have 
1, 2, or 3 whaling boats, respectively.
Consequently, if you have 2 whaling boats, you receive grain and 
no beans. (You could argue that 2 boats also include 1 boat, but 
this is not the case in this game.) 
Every occupation card belongs to one of the following categories:
Immediate Cards
You can recognize immediate cards by their yellow background 
color. These cards have an immediate and one-time only effect 
that you must carry out when you play them. After that, the effect 
becomes irrelevant. Only the point value will matter, 
namely for scoring. For example, when you play the 
Dragonslayer, you can immediately exchange 2 snares 
and 2 spears for 1 treasure chest.
The grey arrow on immediate cards indicates that you 
cannot do the exchange at any time, but only immediately 
and at most once. (For instance, you could not exchange 4 snares 
and 4 spears for 2 treasure chests.) You can only do an exchange 
multiple times if a card explicitly says so, using terms like 
“multiple times” or “once per …”. 
Apart from exchange actions, some cards allow you to 
take specific actions on the action board or go through 
specific round phases. The Cattle Breeder lets you go 
through an additional “Animal Breeding” phase just 
by yourself. 
In other cases, you simply receive goods without 
having to pay anything. 
Anytime Cards
You can recognize anytime cards by their blue 
background color. These cards have a permanent 
effect. You can do what is stated on the card at any time 
(before scoring) and any number of times. The Tanner 
lets you exchange 1 salt meat for 1 hide at any time.
The yellow arrow on anytime cards indicates that you 
can do the exchange at any time and any number of 
times during the course of the game. 
There are some anytime cards without a yellow arrow. 
These bend the rules for you. The Modifier allows 
you to take ore from your ships back into your supply 
(which is not normally allowed).
Each Time Cards
You can recognize each time cards by their red background color. 
These cards have two differently shaded parts. The light red part 
states when the effect activates (usually in form of a condition), 
the dark red one explains the action you may then take. 
Consequently, you may take the action each time the 
condition is met. Immediately before each time you use 
an “Overseas Trading” action space (light red part), you 
receive 1 oil (dark red part). 
Some cards—like the Priest—explicitly state whether the 
card comes into effect before or after you meet the condition. 
(The Priest, for instance, gives you the oil before the action, 
in case you wish to use the oil right away during the Overseas 
Trading action.) 
Other cards provide exchange actions or bend the 
rules for you. The Proficient Hunter lets you roll up to 
4 times instead of 3. 
Exchange actions on each time cards are represented by a 
grey arrow (as on immediate cards), because the exchange 
cannot be done at any time. However, some cards can say “multiple 
times” or “once per …” to modify that. 
Some cards provide two actions. When you play such a card, you can 
choose which actions you want to take. 
If a card shows two immediate actions and you decide 
to take both, you must carry them out in order. Here 
you would have to hunt game first, then you could lay 
a snare. 
Tradesman
2/4/6
Hide Buyer
Helper in Time 
of Need
No harvest
with exactly 
93 C
Dragonslayer
65A
Cattle Breeder
Do an Animal 
Breeding phase 
for you only.
35A
Fruit Picker
Tanner
a
You can return such 
ore to your supply.
from
Modifier
Priest
before taking 
the action
Proficient 
Hunter
roll up to 
4 times
instead of 3
when rolling
a
Hornblower
1 Hunting 
Game 
action
1 Laying 
a Snare 
action
85 C

If you only intend to use cards from deck A for now, you can skip 
the following section. Only decks B and C contain as soon as 
cards.
As Soon As Cards
• You can recognize as soon as cards by their green background 
color. Like the each time cards, these cards have two differently 
shaded parts. The light green part states when the effect activates 
(usually in form of a condition), the dark green one explains the 
action you can then take. In this, these cards are no different 
from each time cards. 
The difference is that the effect of an as soon as card activates 
only once per game—namely when the condition is met for the 
first time. This could be the moment you play the card or a future 
point in time. 
4/9/30
3/2/1
Sail Patcher
as soon as 
you have 
3 large 
ships
if your total round 
income is at most:
 max.
The Sail Patcher requires 3 large ships. If you already 
have 3 large ships when playing this card, you can use 
its effect immediately. 
Cutter 
Operator
next 
time you 
acquire 
a knarr
per 
knarr
B
This card explicitly states a future point in time. As 
soon as you acquire your next knarr, you immediately 
receive 1 stockfish and 1 silver for each knarr you 
then have. 
If the above does not answer all of your questions about specific 
card effects, please refer to page 2 of the appendix. It explains all 
of the occupations in alphabetical order. 
runninG out of Components
For now, you can skip the following section. Come back to it if 
you run out of components. 
• There are only a few components that are limited by the provided 
amounts. 
Houses: There is a limited number of sheds and houses in the 
game. If you run out, you may not take any more of those tiles. 
Exploration boards: Since there are only four exploration 
boards, players may only explore up to four times during the 
course of the game. 
• Ships, goods tiles, building resources, and weapon cards are 
considered to have an unlimited supply.
Ships: Improvise if you run out of a certain type of ship. 
Goods tiles: If you run out of goods, you could return goods to 
the general supply from sections of your placement areas that have 
already been fully covered. You can then either cover them with 
other goods or silver, or simply remember they were already covered.
Building resources: In case you run out of building resources, 
look at the back sides of the seven “Thing Penalty” tiles and take 
the appropriate one as replacement. 
This tile stands for 5 stone. 
Weapon cards: When the draw pile runs out of cards, shuffle the 
discard pile and form a new face down draw pile. If you are about 
to receive a consolatory weapon and you cannot find a proper one 
in both the discard and draw pile, proceed as with the building 
resources. Each penalty tile is worth 3 weapons of one kind.
end of the Game and sCorinG 
The game ends immediately after the Feast phase of the final 
round. You do not receive any bonus during the final round.
• If you have sheds or stone houses, you can place wood and 
stone left in your supply on the designated spaces of those tiles. 
(The tiles show you exactly how many they require.) 
• If you have goods tiles left in your supply, you can still place 
them in the placement areas of your boards and houses, 
if possible.
Then score your points using the provided scoring pad. 
The player whose possessions are worth the most wins the game. 
The points values of your boards and tiles are printed on the 
shield icons.
 
In case of a tie, there are multiple winners. 
Positive Points 
• Ships: each whaling boat is worth 3 points, each knarr 5 points, and 
each longship 8 points. 
• Emigrations: each knarr used for emigration is worth 18 points, 
each such longship 21 points. 
• Exploration: The Exploration boards vary in value (4 to 38 
points). Their value is printed in the top right corner.
• Sheds and houses: sheds are worth 8 points, stone houses 10 
points, and long houses 17 points, as printed in the top right corner. 

• Sheep and cattle: each sheep is worth 2 points (3 points if 
pregnant), each cattle is worth 3 points (4 points if pregnant). 
• Occupations: the value of your occupation cards is printed in 
the top right corner. Only occupation cards in play count. 
• Silver: determine the total of silver in your supply. Silver on 
your boards is worthless. 
• Final income: instead of paying out the income of the final 
round, you can write it down in the “Final Income” category of 
the scoring pad. 
• The player who owns the “English Crown” special tile receives 
2 additional points, regardless of whether it is in their supply or 
on one of their boards. 
Negative Points
• From your total of positive points, subtract the negative points 
for your boards and buildings, including your home board and 
exploration boards as well as your sheds and houses. 
Also, do not forget your Thing Penalties, if any (see “Phase 9: 
Feast” on page 11). 
• It may occur that a player places goods tiles adjacent to each other 
even though they were not allowed to do so. Correct the mistake 
immediately when that happens. If you notice a mistake too late, 
you can punish the culprit during the scoring with 1 Thing Penalty 
for each wrongly placed pair of tiles. Here are 2 examples:
In the example on the left, a player has 
placed three green goods in a row, so 
there are two green-green pairs. This is 
punishable by two Thing Penalties for a 
total of -6 points.
In the example on the right, the mistake 
is more severe. The three goods have 
been placed such that any two of them 
are adjacent to each other. So there 
are three green-green pairs, which is 
punishable by three Thing Penalties for 
a total of -9 points.
the solo Game
In the solo game, use whichever side of the home board you like. 
You will need a second set of Vikings of a different color. 
• Place 1 Viking (2 Vikings in the short game) of one color (here: 
red) on round space 1 at the “Banquet Table”, and another 
2 Vikings each on spaces 3, 5, and 7 (the latter only in the long 
game). 
• Place 2 Vikings of the other color (here: yellow) each on round 
spaces 2, 4, and 6. 
 
• Place 5 Vikings of the first color (red) on the Thing Square, 
and 5 Vikings (6 Vikings in the short game) of the other color 
(yellow) on the “waiting space” of your home board.
• Remove the remaining Viking of the second color from the 
game. (In the short game, remove 1 Viking of the first color 
instead.)
Play the game as though it were a multiplayer game, taking one 
turn after another. Since you do not have any opponents, leave the 
Vikings from the previous round on the game action board, blocking 
the action spaces. This is why you have Vikings of two colors. 
Course of a Round:
Play the first round as in the multiplayer game. In phase 12, do 
not take any Vikings from the action board. Instead, move the 5 
Vikings of the other color from the “waiting space” to the Thing 
Square. In round 2, you receive 2 additional Vikings of the other 
color. At the end of round 2, leave the Vikings you placed in round 
2 on the action board and return the Vikings from the first round to 
your home board. Place these Vikings in round 3. Continue play 
in this fashion until the final round.
Notes on the Phases of a Round: 
• Once you are familiar with the solo game, you can skip phase 3. 
If you would like to know which exploration boards are available 
in any given round, check the appendix on page 15. It will also 
tell you how big the reward for exploring a specific board is. 
• Always skip phase 6. (You have the privilege to always be the 
first player.)
• In phase 12, you can look at the “Banquet Table” to see which 
Vikings you must remove from the action board. 
A final score of 100 is considered a very good score for the solo game. 
In the long game, you can get there with experience, but in the short 
game this is rather difficult to achieve. If you like the challenge, be our 
guest and beat it. (Due to the blocking Vikings, the solo game usually 
has lower scores than the multiplayer game.) 
If you like, you can look through the 
light brown occupation cards and choose 
one for the start of the game, instead of 
drawing one at random. This way you can 
explore specific aspects of the game.
In the solo game, I prefer to lay out more 
mountain strips during setup than required. 
I use a pencil to mark how many of those 
mountain strips are available to me at each 
time. This way I can go much quicker through 
phase 11 and enjoy the game more.

Credits
“A Feast for Odin” was published in June 2016 and designed in May 2013. 
Extensive testing started in August 2014. 
Frank Heeren organized the realization of this heavy game. Dennis Lohausen 
was responsible for its illustrations and graphic design. Uwe Rosenberg wrote 
the rules and also supervised the editing process of the game. Christof Tisch 
typeset the occupation cards, Hans-Georg Schneider the rule book. Grzegorz 
Kobiela did the elaborate English translation. His meticulous way of working led 
to many linguistic improvements. The editing team would like to thank Gernot 
Köpke for the historical accompanying texts, which were supplemented by 
Uwe Rosenberg and translated to English by Gernot himself. Also many thanks 
to the proof-readers of the rule book: Janina Kleinemenke, Gabriele Goldschmidt, 
Grzegorz Kobiela, and Mario Wiese. Gernot would like to thank the proof-
readers of his accompanying texts: Kerstin Herdzina and Steffen Jost. Last but 
not least many thanks to all play-testers, in chronologic order: Andreas Odendahl, 
Lasse Goldschmidt, Gabriele Goldschmidt, Sascha Hendriks, Mechthild Kanz, 
Reinhold Kanz, Kai Poggenkamp, Thorsten Roth, Janina Kleinemenke, 
Jennifer Jünger, Marc Jünger, Hagen Dorgathen, Corinna Büttemeier, 
Stephanie Michaelis, Petra Zardock, Anja Beduhn, Michael Speckmann, 
Ingo Böckmann, Frank Heeren, Pan Pollack, Helge Ostertag, Jens Drögemüller, 
Thorsten Hanson, Stephan Rink, Christof Tisch, Dirk Schmitz, Kevin Farnworth, 
Maxime Gauthier-Kwan, Anthony Gascon, Emily Berthelet, Klaus Lottmann, 
Florian Racky, Ronny Vorbrodt, Rolf Raupach, Stefan Wahoff, Tanja Muck, 
Peter Muck, Tim Koch, Christoph Post, Bianca Bartsch, Claudia Görldt, 
Patrick Enger, Gabi Köpke, Gernot Köpke, Tanja Techmann, Torsten Techmann, 
Lisa Hofmann, Markus Habenberger, Witold Kliszczynski, Raimund Kessler, 
Jutta Böhm, Michael Gnade, Karola Köhler, Lea Reinisch, Patrick Hoffbauer, 
Dani Kemmler, Antonio Messina, Jörg Freudenstein, Kerstin Herdzina, 
Ragnar Deist, Jürgen Dissinger, Désirée Höher, Andrea Neis, Stefan Ziemerle, 
Oliver Heck, Sebastian Dames, Lisa Roggenbuck, Anna Birkelbach, Ralf Seifert.
Z-Man Games wishes to thank Patrick Korner, Adam Marostica, and Michael 
Young for proofreading the epic-length documents of the grand journey that is 
“A Feast for Odin.”
Special thanks to Andreas “Ode” Odendahl for his 
crucial idea to implement bonuses. He had already 
proved his outstanding aptitude for complex board 
games with “La Granja.”