Overview
A Game of Thrones: The Board Game is a game for three to six 
players, based on George R. R. Martin’s bestselling A Song of Ice 
and Fire novels. In A Game of Thrones: The Board Game, players 
each control one of six Great Houses seeking dominance over the 
lands of Westeros. By mustering armies, conquering territory and 
forming alliances, each House strives to control the most Castles 
and Strongholds so it may ultimately claim the Iron Throne. 
Object of the Game
At the end of the 10th game round, the House that controls the 
most areas containing either a Castle or Stronghold is declared the 
winner. If, at any time during the game, a player controls seven such 
areas, that player immediately wins the game.
Component List
ɇ This Rulebook
ɇ 1 Game Board 
ɇ 138 Colored Plastic Units consisting of:
60 Footmen (10 per House)
30 Knights (5 per House)
36 Ships (6 per House)
12 Siege Engines (2 per House)
ɇ 81 Large Cards consisting of:
42 House Cards (7 per House)
30 Westeros Cards
9 Wildling Cards
ɇ 24 Small Tides of Battle Cards
ɇ 2 Reference Sheets
ɇ 6 House-specific Player Screens
ɇ 266 Cardboard Tokens consisting of:
90 Order Tokens (15 per House)
120 Power Tokens (20 per House)
18 Influence Tokens (3 per House)
6 Supply Tokens (1 per House)
14 Neutral Force Tokens 
6 Victory Point Tokens (1 per House)
6 Garrison Tokens (1 per House)
1 Iron Throne Token
1 Valyrian Steel Blade Token
1 Messenger Raven Token
1 Game Round Marker
1 Wildling Threat Token
1 King’s Court Overlay
“The Iron Throne is mine by rights. All those who deny that are my 
foes.” - Stannis Baratheon 
“The whole of the realm denies it, brother. Old men deny it with their 
death rattle, and unborn children deny it in their mothers’ wombs. They 
deny it in Dorne and they deny it on the Wall. No one wants you for 
their king... You may well have the better claim, but I have the larger 
army.” - Renly Baratheon
“When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die.” 
- Cersei Lannister
Number of Players
A Game of Thrones: The Board Game supports three to six 
players. If playing with three, four, or five players, first read this 
entire rule book and then follow the instructions under “Playing 
with Fewer Than Six Players” on page 28 .

Component Overview
The following list briefly describes the components found in 
A Game of Thrones: The Board Game.
Game Board
Displays the continent of Westeros and 
several important game tracks.
Player Screens
Used by players as a reference guide 
and to hide available Order tokens from 
opponents.
Plastic Units
Footmen, Knights, Ships, and Siege Engine 
units, representing the military might of 
each House. 
Order Tokens
Important commands issued by players to 
units in areas on the game board.
Power Tokens 
Represent political and economic influence 
in Westeros. These are used in bidding and to 
establish control of game board areas.
Influence Tokens
Used to indicate the position of each House on 
the three Influence tracks.
Supply Tokens
Used on the Supply track to indicate the 
maximum size and quantity of armies each player 
can field on the game board.
Victory Point Tokens
Placed on the Victory track to indicate how 
close each House is to winning the game. 
Reference Sheets
Provide helpful reference information 
about card and token effects in A Game of 
Thrones: The Board Game.
Neutral Force Tokens
Represent the forces of independent 
areas unwilling to submit to player control 
without resistance.
Garrison Tokens
Represent the inherent defensive strength 
of each player’s home area.
Dominance Tokens
Awarded to the dominant player on each 
of the three Influence tracks on the game 
board: the Iron Throne, the Fiefdoms, and 
the King’s Court. These tokens provide their 
owners with special abilities used at various 
points in the game.
Game Round Marker
Tracks how many game rounds have been played.
House Cards 	
Represent important characters from 
A Song of Ice and Fire called upon 
during combat.
Westeros Cards	
Represent random events and game procedures 
that occur at the start of each game round.
Tides of Battle Cards	
Optional game module that enhances the risks 
and uncertainty of combat. 
Wildling Cards and Threat Token
Tracks the strength and effects of attacks 
against Westeros by the northern wildlings. 
The King’s Court Overlay
Balances the availability of Special Order tokens in three and 
four players games.

Before playing the game, perform the following steps in order:
1.	 Prepare the Game Board: Unfold the game board and 
place it in the center of the play area.
2.	 Prepare the Wildling Deck and Wildling Threat 
Token: Shuffle the Wildling cards to form a deck. Place this deck 
on the space provided at the top of the game board. Then place the 
Wildling Threat token on the “2” position of the Wildlings track. 
3.	 Prepare the Westeros Decks: Separate the Westeros 
cards into decks according to their roman numeral (I, II, or III). 
Shuffle each deck and place them separately facedown next to 
the game board.
4.	 Place the Neutral Force Tokens: First collect the 
Neutral Force tokens marked with the correct range of 
players. Then place those tokens on the areas of the game 
board matching the name on each token. 
 
For example, in a three-player game, place only Neutral Force 
tokens marked with the “3” icon.​
Used only with 
three players
Used with four or 
five players
All Neutral Force tokens are double-sided. One side is used 
exclusively when playing with three players. The reverse side is 
used if the current number of players fall within the indicated 
player range. After placing all necessary Neutral Force tokens, 
return any unused tokens to the box.
When playing with four, five, or six players, not every Neutral 
Force token is used. See “Playing With Fewer Than 6 players” on 
page 28 for a complete list of which tokens to place. 
5.	 Place Game Round Marker: Place the Game Round 
marker on the “1” position of the Round track.
6.	 Determine Player Houses: Each player now selects which 
House he wishes to control during the game (Stark, Lannister, 
Greyjoy, Tyrell, Baratheon, or Martell). Alternatively, players 
may randomly determine which House each player will control. 
When playing a game with fewer than six players, some Houses 
are not eligible to be played, see page 28.
7.	 Gather House Materials: Each player gathers all 
materials belonging to his House. These are: 1 player screen, 
7 House cards, 15 Order tokens, 1 Supply token, 3 Influence 
tokens, 1 Victory Point token, 1 Garrison token, and all 
plastic units of his color (do not take any House-specific 
Power tokens yet).
8.	 Place Influence, Victory and Supply Tokens: Each player 
places his Victory, Supply, and Influence tokens on the game 
board tracks as instructed by his player screen. Unlike the 
Influence tracks, more than one House may share the same 
position on the Victory and Supply tracks. 
 
If playing with fewer than six players, slide every Influence 
token to the left (towards the “1” position) on each Influence 
track to fill any leftward empty position (in other words, the 
highest numbered positions on each track remains empty 
and unused in games with fewer than six players). The Setup 
Diagram on page 5 illustrates how Influence tokens have been 
shifted left in a four-player game. 
 
The Houses occupying each “1” (i.e., left-most) position on each 
Influence track now claim the pictured Dominance token for 
that track (the Iron Throne, the Valyrian Steel Blade, or the 
Messenger Raven token).
9.	 Place Units: Each player then places all of his starting 
units on the game board according to the instructions on his 
player screen.
10.	Place Garrison Tokens: Each player places his Garrison 
token on his home area (matching the area name on the token). 
11.	Gather Power Tokens: Place all Power tokens (for 
all Houses) in a central pile. This pile of Power tokens is 
referred to as the “Power Pool.” Each player then takes five 
Power tokens matching his House from the Power Pool.
The game is now ready to begin!
Exceeding the 
 Components Provided
Each House is provided a limited number of units, 
tokens, and cards. If a player is using all his components of 
a particular type, he may not bring additional components 
of that type into play. Units that are destroyed in combat (or 
removed from the board for any other reason) are available to 
be mustered again. 
GAME SETUP

1.	 Game Board
2.	 Wildlings Track
3.	 Wildling Deck
4.	 Westeros Deck I
5.	 Westeros Deck II
6.	 Westeros Deck III
7.	 A Neutral Force Token
8.	 A Garrison Token
9.	 Round Track
10.	 Victory Track
11.	 Supply Track
12.	 Influence Tracks
13.	 Player Screens
14.	 House Cards (Player Hand)
15.	 House Cards (Discard Pile)
16.	 Order Tokens
17.	 Available Power Tokens
18.	 Power Pool
19.	 Dominance Tokens
20.	 King’s Court Overlay (3-4 players only)
Setup Diagram 
 (four-player example)

The Player Screen
Each player takes the player screen that represents his 
House. The player screen provides reference information, setup 
information, and enables players to sort and store components 
(such as Order tokens) privately during the game.
1.	
Order token reference
2.	
Starting units information
3.	
Starting position on Supply, Influence, and Victory tracks
4.	
House unit setup map (illustrating the starting units 	
	
information)
Important Terms! 
Be sure to read and understand the following terms 
before continuing:
Unit: A plastic Ship, Footman, Knight, or Siege 
Engine. Other component types (including Garrisons, 
Neutral Forces, or Influence tokens) are not units.
Area: A region of Westeros as depicted on the game 
board and divided by white or red borders. An area is either 
a sea area (red borders) or a land area (white borders).
Home Area: A land area containing the printed shield 
of its House. For example, Winterfell is the home area of 
House Stark.
Turn Order: Any game mechanic that operates in 
“turn order” is resolved in the order of House position on 
the Iron Throne Influence track. The first House (in the “1” 
position) always acts first, followed by the second House 
(in the “2” position), etc.
House/Player: Interchangeably used in these rules 
when referring to a player and/or the House he controls. 
Enemy/Opponent: Describes any game component or 
area controlled by another player, or describes the rival 
player himself. 
Friend/Friendly: Game components or game board 
areas belonging to the same player.
Army/Armies: An army is defined as two or more 
friendly units sharing the same sea or land area. A single 
unit occupying an area is not considered an army (and is 
therefore unaffected by changes in supply, see page 8).
Available Power: Power tokens in a player’s play area, 
available to be bid or otherwise spent during gameplay. 
Power tokens in the Power Pool are not considered available 
power. For example, during game setup, each House receives 
five Power tokens from the Power Pool. In this way, each House 
has five available power at the beginning of the game.
Collect/Receive/Discard Power: When instructed 
to receive or collect power, a player takes the indicated 
number of Power tokens bearing his House insignia 
from the communal Power Pool. When instructed to 
“discard” power, the player takes the Power tokens from 
his available power and returns them to the Power Pool. 
A player may only collect, receive, or discard Power tokens 
bearing the insignia of his own House.
Destroy: A unit that is destroyed during the game is 
removed from the game board and returned to a player’s 
available units in his play area.
Embattled Area: The area in which a combat currently 
is taking place.
The Houses of Westeros
During the time of A Song of Ice and Fire in which A Game 
of Thrones: The Board Game is set, the following Houses are the 
principal players in the struggle for the Iron Throne.
House Stark “Winter is Coming” 
A reclusive family with honorable traditions that has been 
reluctantly pulled into the game of thrones. 
House Greyjoy “We Do Not Sow” 
Nurturing wounds from its failed rebellion, this bitter clan 
has bided its time to once more launch its longships upon the 
western coasts of Westeros.
House Lannister “Hear Me Roar” 
An ambitious family whose rich gold mines and relentless 
cunning has made them a formidable and dangerous 
power in the realm.
House Martell “Unbowed, Unbent, Unbroken“ 
Fierce and unforgiving, this ancient family has thrived and 
grown powerful under the scorching sun of Dorne. 
House Tyrell “Growing Strong” 
Even as their fertile lands are considered the heart of 
chivalry in Westeros, this proud family has never sat 
upon the Iron Throne; a fact it hopes to soon correct.
House Baratheon “Ours is the Fury” 
The troubled but strong-willed family of Robert Baratheon, 
the late King, holds the strongest claim of succession to the 
Iron Throne.

A Game of Thrones: The Board Game is played over 10 game rounds, 
each consisting of the following three phases:
1.	 The Westeros Phase (skipped game round 1) 
The top card of each Westeros deck is drawn, after which 
each card is resolved in order (I, II, then III). Westeros cards 
represent important game procedures and events.
2.	 The Planning Phase 
Each player simultaneously assigns facedown Order tokens to 
each area containing one or more of his units. 
3.	 The Action Phase 
The Order tokens assigned during the Planning Phase are now 
resolved. The majority of player activity in A Game of Thrones: 
The Board Game takes place during this phase.
After each Action Phase, a new game round begins, starting 
with another Westeros Phase.
If at any time during the game a player controls seven areas 
containing a Castle or Stronghold, the game is over and that 
player is the winner. Otherwise, the game lasts until the end of 
the 10th game round, at which point the player who controls the 
most areas containing a Castle or Stronghold wins the game (see 
“Winning the Game” on page 16). 
The Westeros Phase
During this phase, players draw and resolve three Westeros 
cards, one from each Westeros deck. 
Note: Skip this phase during the first game round, proceed 
instead directly to the Planning Phase.
The Westeros Phase consists of the following steps:
1.	 Advance Game Round Marker: Advance the Game 
Round marker one position on the Game Round track. 
 
If the Game Round marker was on the 10th space at the start of 
the Westeros Phase, it’s not possible to advance the Game Round 
marker. Instead, the game is over and a winner is determined 
(see “Winning the Game” on page 16). 
2.	 Draw Westeros Cards: Reveal the top card of all three 
Westeros decks.
3.	 Advance Wildlings Track: Count 
the number of Wildling icons on the 
three revealed Westeros cards (if any) and 
move the Wildling Threat token forward 
that many spaces on the Wildlings track. 
If, during this step, the Wildling Threat 
token reaches position “12”, a Wildling Attack is immediately 
resolved (ignore any surplus Wildling icons). Read how to 
resolve wildling attacks on page 22. 
 
4.	 Resolve Westeros Cards: Now, in order of deck 
number (starting with numeral I), resolve each revealed 
Westeros Card. 
 
To resolve a Westeros card, simply read the card’s text and 
implement its effects. Many cards are self-explanatory, but 
some require a detailed understanding of their specified 
effect. The resolution effects of those important Westeros 
cards are found on the following pages.
The Game Round
Wildling Icon
There are three decks of Westeros cards, each marked 
with a roman numeral. When revealing and later resolving 
Westeros cards during the Westeros Phase, always start with 
deck I, followed by deck II, and then deck III. 
1.	 Event Title and Artwork
2.	 Deck Number: The number in the right-hand box 
indicates which Westeros deck this card belongs to (also 
indicated on the card back).
3.	 Text Effect: Describes how this card affects gameplay. 
4.	 Wildling Icon: Some cards show a Wildling icon in the 
upper right corner. During the Advance Wildlings Track step, 
the Wildling Threat token is advanced one space for each of 
these icons present on the drawn Westeros cards.
The Westeros Cards

Westeros Card: Supply
Armies require enormous amounts of supplies to function 
efficiently: food, water, steel, horses, clothing, etc. Without adequate 
provisions, an army will quickly deteriorate.
When resolving the “Supply” Westeros card, 
each House, in turn order, counts the number 
of Supply icons printed in areas it controls, and 
then moves its Supply token on the Supply track 
to reflect that level of supply.
Each column on the Supply track has a resulting set of flags. 
These flags illustrate the number of different armies, and the 
maximum number of units in each such army, that a House may 
field on the game board.
For example, a House with a supply of “3” may field four armies: one 
army with a maximum of three units, and three smaller armies each 
with a maximum of two units.
Reminder: An army is defined as two or more friendly units in 
the same land or sea area. A single unit is not considered an army, 
and has no supply consideration.
In the illustration above, Stark (with actual supply of two) is able 
to field up to three armies, being two armies each containing two 
units, and one army containing up to three units. Both Lannister and 
Baratheon have more supply, and therefore can field proportionally 
more (and larger) armies. 
After a player adjusts supply, he must ensure the actual number 
(and size) of his armies on the game board do not exceed his 
supply limits. If his armies do exceed new supply limits, he must 
immediately remove units from the game board until his army 
number (and size) conforms to that allowed by his position on the 
Supply track.
Other Supply Rules
ɇ A player is allowed to have fewer and/or smaller armies 
than the limit provided by his position on the Supply track.
ɇ Though a Knight or a Siege Engine unit are stronger than 
Footmen or Ship units, they only count as one unit for the 
purpose of supply.
ɇ Though a player may gain or lose Supply icons on the game 
board throughout one or more Action Phases, his armies 
are reconciled only when the Supply track is adjusted (via a 
“Supply” Westeros card, or other game effects). 
ɇ A player is never allowed to take any action in the game 
that would cause him to exceed his actual supply limit 
as dictated by his position on the Supply track (such as 
mustering, marching or retreating, all explained later).
Supply Icon
Supply Example
Lannister has recently lost control of Riverrun and 
Seagard to Greyjoy (each of which contains a single Supply 
icon). During a later Westeros Phase, a “Supply” card is 
revealed. Due to the loss of these areas, Lannister must now 
adjust his actual Supply from 5 to 3. 
Before the “Supply” card is drawn, Lannister has four armies 
of 4, 3, 2, and 2 units. 
Lannister also controls several areas containing a single 
unit, but as single units do not form an army, supply limits 
have no effect on them. 
As Lannister’s supply drops to 3, he can no longer 
adequately supply some of its armies. As indicated on the 
Supply track, a supply of 3 allows Lannister to field four 
armies with the sizes: 3, 2, 2, and 2. To reconcile with his new 
supply level, Lannister destroys one of his Footmen at The 
Twins and one of his Footmen at Harrenhal. 

Westeros Card: Mustering
The “Mustering” Westeros card represents the efforts of the 
great Houses in calling their bannermen to action, in training 
and outfitting warriors, assembling warships, and constructing 
massive engines of war. 
When resolving the “Mustering” Westeros card, each player, 
in turn order, may recruit new units into each area he controls 
that contains a Castle or Stronghold. Each Castle or Stronghold 
provides mustering points which may be spent to recruit new 
units in its area: 
Strongholds each provide 2 
points of mustering
Castles each provide 1 point of 
mustering
The mustering cost of each unit type is as follows: 
Footman: Costs 1 point of mustering 
Knight: Costs 2 points of mustering (or 1 	
	
point if upgraded from a Footman) 
Ship: Costs 1 point of mustering 
Siege Engine: Costs 2 points of mustering (or 	
	
1 point if upgraded from a Footman) 
A mustered unit is taken from its player’s unused units, and 
placed directly into the area of the Castle or Stronghold that 
provided the mustering point(s) to muster it. 
A Footman unit located in a mustering area (i.e., an area 
containing a Castle or Stronghold) may be upgraded to (i.e., replaced 
with) a Knight or Siege Engine unit for a cost of 1 mustering point. 
A player may never muster a unit that would create or 
expand an army beyond his actual supply limit. In other words, 
if mustering a new unit would cause a player to have more (or 
larger) armies than allowed by his position on the Supply track, 
that unit cannot be mustered. 
If an area containing a Castle or Stronghold is unable to muster 
or upgrade a unit (or its owner decides not to muster or upgrade in 
this area) its mustering points are lost (i.e., they do not contribute to 
a future mustering here). 
Each player must resolve all his mustering (for all areas 
containing his Castles and Strongholds) before the next player in 
turn order can start his mustering.
Mustering Ship Units
Ship units, like other units, are mustered by an area containing 
a Castle or Stronghold. Unlike other unit types, however, Ship units 
may only be placed in a port connected to the mustering area or in an 
adjacent sea area (see page 25 for more detail on ports).
Ship units cannot be mustered into sea areas that contain one 
or more enemy ships. If a Castle or Stronghold area has no port or 
eligible adjacent sea areas, no Ship units can be mustered there.
Remember that two or more Ship units in the same sea 
area are considered an army, and must conform to a House’s 
supply restrictions like any other army. (While it would be more 
accurate to call multiple Ship units a fleet, the term army is used 
for simplicity.) 
Unlike Ship units, Footmen, Knight, and Siege Engine units may 
never be mustered in ports or sea areas.
Mustering Example
A Mustering card is revealed during the Westeros Phase. 
Lannister (with Supply of 3) is first player in the turn order and 
now musters new units. 
1.	 He uses one of the two mustering points provided in 
Lannisport to place a Footman unit at Lannisport and the other 
to place a Ship unit in the Golden Sound.
2.	 Turning his attention to Harrenhal, he uses its single 
mustering point to upgrade one of his two Footmen units there 
to a Knight (upgrading does not affect army size).
3.	 Since he already has an army of three Knights at Riverrun, 
he uses one of his mustering points at Riverrun to place another 
Ship in the Golden Sound (which is adjacent to Riverrun), 
creating an army of two Ships. He cannot use the one remaining 
mustering point at Riverrun since he has met his Supply limit.
4.	 Lannister also controls Stoney Sept, but since that area 
contains neither a Castle or Stronghold, no mustering takes 
place there.

Westeros Card: Clash of Kings
From the invasion of the First Men to the reign of the Andal 
kings; from the fiery conquest of the Targaryens to the rebellion of 
Robert Baratheon, the continent of Westeros has known constant 
military upheaval. Yet, the game of thrones is not always played 
on the battlefield. Intrigue, betrayal, and assassinations have felled 
many a contender, and so has lack of support from the minor houses 
of Westeros. A House that dares set its eyes on the Iron Throne must 
turn many wheels within wheels to achieve its ends. 
The “Clash of Kings” Westeros card simulates the intrigue and 
plotting quietly taking place behind the curtain of war, affecting it in 
many subtle (and some not-so-subtle) ways.
To resolve “Clash of Kings,” first remove all Influence tokens 
from the three Influence tracks on the game board. Players then 
bid available power for position on the three tracks. The bidding 
is resolved one track at a time, starting with the Iron Throne 
track, followed by the Fiefdoms track, and ending with the King’s 
Court track. 
Bidding on the Influence Tracks
When bidding on each Influence track, players first hide all 
their available power tokens behind their player screens. Then each 
player secretly places any number of his available power tokens 
into his hand, hiding them in a closed fist. Once all players have 
made their selections, everyone simultaneously reveals their bid by 
opening their hands. 
The player with the highest bid places one of his Influence 
tokens on the “1” position of the track being bid upon. The player 
with the second highest bid places one of his Influence token on 
the “2” position of the same track, the third highest player on the 
“3” position, etc.
The outcome of all ties in bidding is decided by the player 
holding the Iron Throne token. This player places the Influence 
tokens of tied players on the highest (i.e., left-most) available 
positions on the track, in the order of his choice.
All power tokens bid by players, regardless of outcome, are 
discarded to the Power Pool.
After all Influence tokens have been placed on the track 
undergoing bidding, the player occupying the track’s “1” position 
is awarded its Dominance token (Iron Throne, Valyrian Steel Blade, 
or Messenger Raven token, see page 11 for more detail on 
Dominance token abilities), then players proceed to bid on the next 
Influence track. 
After bidding for the King’s Court track is completed and the 
Messenger Raven awarded, the Clash of Kings Westeros card has 
been resolved and the game continues. All remaining Power tokens 
are returned to the front of each players’ screen.
During a five-player game, a “Clash of Kings” card has been 
drawn in this round’s Westeros Phase. Players have already 
finished bidding on the Iron Throne track (with House Greyjoy 
winning the first place and the Iron Throne Dominance token). 
Bidding now proceeds to the Fiefdoms track. Each player 
hides his available power behind his player screen and secretly 
places a number of Power tokens in his hand, making a closed 
fist. The bids are then revealed simultaneously, with the 
following results:
ɇ Lannister: 4 Power
ɇ Baratheon: 3 Power
ɇ Stark: 3 Power
ɇ Tyrell: 2 Power
ɇ Greyjoy: 0 Power
Influence Track Bidding Example
Lannister claims the first spot on the fiefdoms track, placing his 
Influence token on the “1” position. 
Baratheon and Stark are tied for the second-highest bid. 
Greyjoy (who currently controls the Iron Throne Dominance token) 
decides that Baratheon’s Influence token will be placed on the “2” 
position and Stark on the “3” position.
Tyrell, being the fourth-highest bidder, places his influence 
token on the “4” position, while Greyjoy, who bid the least, places 
his token on the “5” position. The “6” position will remain unused 
as this is a five-player game. 
After all Influence tokens have been placed on the track, House 
Lannister takes the Valyrian Steel Blade token as his reward for 
claiming the first spot on the Fiefdoms track.

The game board features three different Influence tracks: 
The Iron Throne track, the Fiefdoms track, and the King’s Court 
track. The player in the highest position on each track receives 
a specific Dominance token: The Iron Throne, the Valyrian Steel 
Blade, or the Messenger Raven. The effects of each Influence 
track and its respective Dominance token are described below.
The Iron Throne Track
The order of Influence tokens on the Iron Throne Influence 
track determines the turn order. When resolving anything in 
turn order, always start with the player whose token is in the “1” 
position on the track, followed by the player whose token is in the 
“2” position, etc. 
The player whose token is in position “1” of the Iron Throne 
Influence track holds the Iron Throne token. 
The Iron Throne Token
The player holding this token decides 
the outcome of all ties that occur in 
the game, with the exception of ties in 
combat (which are resolved by a player’s 
position on the Fiefdoms track) and ties in 
determining the winner of the game.
Note: The Iron Throne token does not 
change hands until bidding for the Iron 
Throne track has been resolved and all 
Influence tokens have been placed on that track. Thus, the player 
controlling the Iron Throne token still breaks ties when bidding 
on the Iron Throne track, even though he may lose the Iron 
Throne token after the bidding is over.
The Fiefdoms Track
The player with a higher position (i.e., closer to “1”) on the 
Fiefdoms track wins ties in combat against a player in a lower 
position (see “Combat” on page 17). 
The player whose token is in position “1” of the Fiefdoms 
Influence track holds the Valyrian Steel Blade token. 
Remember, all ties outside of combat and determining 
the winner of the game are decided by the holder of the Iron 
Throne token, including ties in bidding for the Fiefdoms track. 
The Valyrian Steel Blade Token
The Valyrian Steel Blade 
The player holding the Valyrian Steel Blade token may, once 
per game round, use the token in combat to grant himself a +1 
Combat Strength bonus. 
Whenever a player uses the Valyrian Steel Blade, he flips the 
token over to its faded side, indicating it has been used this game 
round. At the end of every Action Phase (and thus the end of that 
round), the holder of the Valyrian Steel Blade flips the token back 
to its fully colored side, indicating it is available to be used again 
in the next game round.
The King’s Court Track
A House’s position on the King’s Court track determines the 
number of Special Order tokens available to that House during 
the Planning Phase. The higher a House’s position (i.e., closer to 
“1”) on the King’s Court track, the greater the number of Special 
Order tokens available to that House. 
The player whose token is in position “1” of the King’s Court 
Influence track holds the Messenger Raven token. 
The number of special orders provided by the King’s Court 
track is indicated by the number of stars printed by each 
position on the track (some lower positions award no special 
orders). More information on special orders can be found under 
“The Special Orders” on page 22.
In three and four player games, the King’s Court overlay 
token is placed over the King’s Court track to alter the number of 
special orders awarded by each position. 
The Messenger Raven Token
The player holding the Messenger 
Raven token may perform one of the 
following actions at the end of every 
Assign Orders step of the Planning phase:
ɇ Replace an Order Token: The 
holder may swap one of his Order tokens 
on the game board for one of his unused 
Order tokens. 
ɇ Look in the Wildling Deck: The holder looks at the top 
card of the Wildling deck. After looking, he may choose to 
return the card to the top of the Wildling deck, or place the 
card at the bottom of the Wildling deck. He may share the 
information found on the card with other players (or even lie), 
but may not show the card.
Whenever a player uses the Messenger Raven, he flips the 
Messenger Raven token over to its faded side, indicating it 
has been used. At the end of every Action Phase, the holder of 
the Messenger Raven flips the token back to its fully colored 
side, indicating it is available to be used again during the 
next game round.
The Influence Tracks and Dominance Tokens
The Messenger Raven 
The Iron Throne 

The Planning Phase
During this phase, players secretly issue orders to areas on the 
game board.
The Planning Phase consists of the following steps:
1.	 Assign Orders
2.	 Reveal Orders
3.	 Use Messenger Raven
1. Assign Orders
During this step, each player must place exactly one Order token 
facedown (i.e., secretly, his house insignia facing up) on each area 
he controls that contains at least one of his units (Footman, Knight, 
Ship, or Siege Engine). All players place their orders simultaneously. 
An area cannot be assigned more than one Order token.
While players may not reveal placed orders to other players, 
they are free to plead, cajole, and/or suggest strategies to each 
other during this step.
 There are five different types of Order tokens: 
March Orders
Defense Orders
Support Orders
 Raid Orders
 Consolidate Power Orders
The Order tokens depicted above are regular Order tokens. Each 
player also has five Special Order tokens – stronger variants of 
each order type, marked by a star. Special orders are described in 
detail on page 22.
Special Order Token 
(indicated by a Star) 
Order Token
A player may use any of his 10 regular Order tokens during 
the Planning Phase, but may only use a number of Special Order 
tokens equal to the number of stars printed next to his position on 
the King’s Court Influence track. 
For example (in a six-player game), the House in position “1” of the 
Kings Court Influence Track may use up to 3 special orders (as indicated 
by the three stars on the “1” position) during the Planning Phase. The 
House in 4th position, however, may use only one special order, while the 
House in 5th position may use no special orders at all. 
The game effects of each regular order type is described in detail 
in the ”Order Token Summary” on page 13 (and also on each 
player screen).
After all players have completed placing their orders, proceed to 
the “Reveal Orders” step. Be sure that every area containing at least one 
unit has been assigned an Order token before proceeding. If not, then one 
or more players have not placed all required Order tokens.
Not Enough Order Tokens?
In very rare circumstances, a player will have fewer eligible 
Order tokens than he needs (i.e., he is unable to assign an order 
to each area containing one or more of his units). In this case, all 
players must take the Assign Orders step in turn order (rather than 
simultaneously). The first player places all of his orders (facedown 
as normal) on the game board, followed by the next player in turn 
order, etc. The player(s) with insufficient number of eligible Order 
tokens must place all his eligible Order tokens during his turn, 
but as an exception to the normal rules, is allowed to leave areas 
(of his choice) without an order. A player may never, under any 
circumstance, place more Special Order tokens than allowed by his 
position on the King’s Court Influence track.
2. Reveal Orders
All orders assigned to the game board are now simultaneously 
revealed. Simply flip all orders faceup, revealing their order types. 
They will later be resolved during the Action Phase.
3. Use Messenger Raven
As described in the sidebar on page 11, the player holding the 
Messenger Raven token may perform one of the following actions:
ɇ Replace an Order Token: Swap one of his Order tokens on 
the game board for one of his unused Order tokens. 
ɇ Look at the Top Wildling Card: He looks at the top card of 
the Wildling deck. After looking, he may choose to return the card 
facedown to the top of the Wildling deck, or place the card face-
down at the bottom of the Wildling deck. He may willingly share 
the information found on the card with other players, but may not 
show the card to others. 
If desired, the holder of the Messenger Raven may choose not 
use either of these abilities during this step.
Whenever a player uses the Messenger Raven, he flips the 
Messenger Raven token over to its faded side, indicating it has 
been used. At the end of every Action Phase, the holder of the 
Messenger Raven flips the token back to its fully colored side, 
indicating it is available to be used again during the next game 
round.
After resolving this step, the Planning Phase is now over, and play 
proceeds to the Action Phase. 

The Raid Order 
 
	
	
 
Raid Orders represent aggressive incursions and pillaging of 
enemy lands. They aim to disrupt enemy plans and drain him of 
precious resources. 
A Raid Order is resolved during the first step of the Action 
Phase by expending itself to remove one adjacent enemy Support, 
Consolidate Power, or Raid Order. Detailed rules for resolving Raid 
Order tokens are found on page 14.
Each player has two normal Raid Orders and one Special 
Raid Order.
The March Order
March Orders represent the movement of troops and ships 
across the lands and seas of Westeros. Only by assigning March 
Orders to units on the game board, can players take control of 
new areas and engage opponents in combat.
March Orders are resolved during the second step of the Action 
Phase. When resolved, all units in the Order token’s assigned area 
may march (i.e., move) to one or more adjacent areas. If marching 
units enter an area containing one or more enemy units, a combat 
ensues (only one combat, however, may be initiated for each 
March Order). Detailed rules for resolving March Orders during 
the Action Phase are found on page 15. Rules for Combat are 
found on page 17.
Each player has two normal March Orders, one with a -1 Combat 
Strength modifier, another with a +0 Combat Strength modifier, as 
well as one Special March Order.
The Defense Order
Defense Orders represent the preparation of strong defensive 
positions. They grant a Combat Strength bonus to the defender of the 
assigned area (the bonus is indicated by the number printed on the 
Order token). Detailed rules for Combat are found on page 17.
Unless removed during the Action Phase (by losing a combat in 
the assigned area, for example), a Defense Order will contribute its 
defensive bonus against any number of attacks against its assigned 
area during the same game round. 
Each player has two normal Defense Orders, both providing a 
+1 Combat Strength modifier, as well as one Special Defense Order. 
The Support Order
Support Orders represent both logistical and martial assistance 
to forces engaged in nearby battle. Not only may support be 
granted to a player’s own combat needs, but to that of another 
player. This makes the Support Order the fulcrum of negotiation 
and intrigue in A Game of Thrones: The Board Game. 
During the “Declare Support” step of combat, supporting units 
adjacent to the embattled area may add their combat strength to 
one of the two participants in the adjacent combat. Detailed rules 
for using Support Orders during combat are found on page 17.
Each player has two normal Support Orders, as well as one 
Special Support Order.
The Consolidate Power Order
Consolidate Power Orders represent the garnering of local favor, 
the collection of tax income, and the harvesting of resources from 
areas under a player’s control. They are the most direct way for 
players to gain Power tokens from the Power Pool. 
Consolidate Power Orders are resolved during the third step of 
the Action Phase. When resolved, the Order token is removed from 
the game board in exchange for gaining one Power token from the 
Power Pool, plus one Power token for each Power icon printed on 
the assigned area. Detailed rules for resolving Consolidate Power 
Orders are found on page 16.
Consolidate Power Orders placed on sea areas have no effect, 
but may still be placed. 
Each player has two normal Consolidate Power Orders and one 
Special Consolidate Power Order.
Order Token Summary

The Action Phase
During the Action Phase, players resolve all orders that were 
assigned to the game board during the Planning Phase. The Action 
Phase is resolved by performing the following steps: 
1.	 Resolve Raid Orders
2.	 Resolve March Orders (and resulting combat)
3.	 Resolve Consolidate Power Orders
4.	 Clean Up
1. Resolve Raid Orders
In turn order, each player resolves one of his Raid Orders on the 
game board. If a player has no such orders remaining, he simply 
skips any further action during this step.
Keep cycling through the turn order, with each player resolving 
one of his Raid Orders, until no Raid Orders remain on the game 
board. Play then proceeds to the “Resolve March Orders” step. 
When resolving a Raid Order, a player simply chooses one 
enemy Support, Raid, or Consolidate Power Order adjacent to the 
Raid Order. The chosen order and the resolved Raid Order are both 
removed from the game board.
By raiding enemy orders, players are effectively canceling 
opponent’s orders, leaving the raided areas without Order tokens.
If a Raid Order is used to remove an opponent’s Consolidate 
Power Order token, the raiding player is said to be pillaging his 
opponent. After resolving the Raid Order, the pillaging player 
receives one Power token from the Power Pool and the opponent 
discards one of his available power tokens to the Power Pool, if 
able. The pillaging player always gains one token from the Power 
Pool, even if the opponent has none available to lose.
A Raid Order placed on a land area can never raid an adjacent 
sea area. A Raid Order placed on a sea area, however, may raid 
either an adjacent land or sea area. 
Raid Orders can remove adjacent Special Order tokens, as long 
as they match the legal type (i.e., Support, Raid, or Consolidate 
Power tokens).
Other Rules for Raid Orders
ɇ If there are no eligible adjacent enemy Orders tokens when 
resolved, the Raid Order is removed from the game board 
with no effect.
ɇ When resolving a Raid Order, the player may choose 
for the order to have no effect (simply removing it from 
the game board), even if there are one or more eligible 
adjacent enemy orders.
See the “Example of Raid Order Resolution” sidebar for a 
comprehensive example of how to resolve Raid Orders.
There are five Raid Orders on the board. Lannister has Raid 
Orders at The Reach and in the Sunset Sea, Greyjoy has a Raid 
Order in the West Summer Sea, Tyrell has a Raid Order at the 
Dornish Marches, while Baratheon has a Special Raid Order at 
Stoney Sept.
The turn order (decided by the Iron Throne track) is: Greyjoy, 
Stark, Lannister, Baratheon, and Tyrell. 
The Resolve Raid Orders step is completed as follows:
1.	 Greyjoy resolves his Raid Order first. He decides to raid Tyrell’s 
Consolidate Power Order at Highgarden. Greyjoy removes his 
Raid Order as well as Tyrell’s Consolidate Power Order token from 
Highgarden. Since raiding a Consolidate Power token is considered 
pillaging, Greyjoy collects one Power token from the Power Pool, 
while Tyrell discards one Power token to the Power Pool. 
2.	 Stark has no Raid Orders, so Lannister goes next. Lannister 
has two Raid Orders on the game board. He chooses to raid 
the Tyrell Raid Order in the Dornish Marches from The Reach. 
Lannister removes his Raid Order at The Reach as well as the 
Tyrell Raid Order token in the Dornish Marches. 
3.	 Baratheon uses his Special Raid Order at Stoney Sept to 
remove the Lannister Defense Order at Lannisport. He removes 
both tokens. (Removing a Defense Order is the unique ability of 
a Special Raid Order, see “The Special Orders” on page 22.) 
4.	 Because his only Raid Order was removed by the first 
Lannister Raid, Tyrell has no Raid Orders. Play goes back to the 
top of the turn order.
5.	 Since Lannister’s remaining Raid Order in the Sunset Sea is 
not adjacent to any enemy Support, Consolidate Power, or Raid 
Orders, it is removed from the game board with no effect. 
 
Example of Raid Order 
Resolution

2. Resolve March Orders
In turn order, each player resolves one of his March Orders 
on the game board. If a player has no such orders remaining, he 
simply skips any further action during this step.
Keep cycling through the turn order, with each player resolving 
one March Order at a time, until no March Orders remain on the 
game board. Play then proceeds to the “Resolve Consolidate Power 
Orders” step.
Resolving March Orders is perhaps the most important 
aspect of A Game of Thrones: The Board Game. It is during this 
step that players move units on the board, engage in combat 
against their opponents, and gain crucial territory needed to 
fulfill their ambitions.
When resolving a March Order, the following rules apply:
ɇ A player may move all, some, or none of his units from the 
area assigned the March Order. 
ɇ Units may move together or separately into several 
adjacent areas, and/or remain in the area assigned the 
March Order.
ɇ A player may only move units into adjacent areas (unless 
using ship transport, see “Ship Transport” on page 23).
ɇ Footmen, Knights, and Siege Engine units may never move 
into sea areas or ports. Ship units may move into friendly 
connected port areas or into adjacent sea areas, but may 
never move into a land area.
ɇ For each March Order, a player may move units into only 
one area containing units of another House. In other 
words, while the marching player may split his units and 
move them into several adjacent areas, only one of those 
areas may contain units from another house. 
ɇ When a player moves one or more units into an area 
containing units from another house, he starts a combat 
as the attacker. See rules for combat on page 17.
ɇ Before resolving combat, all other non-combat 
movement from the area assigned the March Order 
must be completed.
ɇ The number printed on each March Order token signifies 
the Combat Strength modifier provided to the attacking 
player when a combat is initiated with that March Order.
ɇ If a player vacates (i.e., leaves no unit behind in) an 
area, he loses control of that area unless he establishes 
control by placing a Power token from his available 
power on the vacated area. Rules for controlling areas and 
establishing control are found on page 24. 
See the “March Order Example” sidebar for an example of 
resolving a March Order.
Advanced Strategy Tip: A player can “stagger” movement by 
placing several March Orders in adjacent areas. In this fashion, 
a unit is able to move more than one area in a turn. This is 
accomplished by marching units into an area containing another 
friendly March Order, and later (when resolving that second 
March Order) moving that area’s units into a new area (potentially 
containing the third friendly March Order, which would allow 
the units to move again when that last March Order is later 
resolved). This can be a difficult trick to accomplish, however, since 
a successful enemy attack could remove one of the March Orders 
in this chain.
March Order Example
Lannister has assigned a March Order to the Lannisport area 
which contains three Footman units. 
When resolving the March Order, Lannister first moves a 
Footman into Stoney Sept, and then moves a Footman into the 
Searoad Marches (which already contains a Lannister Footman, 
thus forming an army of two). The last Footman unit remains in 
Lannisport. 
The Lannister player has now resolved this March Order and 
removes the token (no Combat was initiated).

3. Resolve Consolidate Power Orders
In turn order, each player resolves one of his Consolidate 
Power Orders on the game board. If a player has no such orders 
remaining, he simply skips any further action during this step.
Keep cycling through the turn order, with each 
player resolving one of his Consolidate Power 
Orders until none remain on the game board. 
Play then proceeds to the “Clean Up” step.
When a player resolves a Consolidate Power 
Order, he removes the Consolidate Power token 
to gain one Power token from the Power Pool, plus one additional 
Power token for each Power icon printed on the area in which the 
Consolidate Power Order was assigned.
See the “Consolidate Power Order Example” sidebar for an 
example of resolving a Consolidate Power Order.
4. Clean Up
All remaining Support and Defense Orders are now removed 
from the game board and all routed units are stood to their 
upright position (see “Retreats and Routing” on page 21 for more 
information on routed units). The Messenger Raven and the Valyrian 
Steel Blade tokens are both flipped to their available (non-faded) 
side.
The Action Phase is now over. If this was the end of game round 10, 
the game is over and a winner is determined. Otherwise play proceeds 
to the next game round starting with a new Westeros Phase.
Removing/Resolving Orders
Whether an Order token is resolved normally or removed from 
the game board by other means, it is simply returned to its House’s 
available orders, ready for use during the next Planning Phase.
Winning the Game
A Game of Thrones: The Board Game ends in one of two ways: 
ɇ The game reaches the end of the 10th game round.
ɇ Immediately after a player controls his seventh area 
containing a Castle or Stronghold. 
Each player must, at all times, record the number of areas he 
controls containing a Castle and/or Strongholds on the Victory 
track located on the game board.
 At the end of the 10th game round, the player with the highest 
position on the Victory track (i.e., controls the most areas with 
a Castle or Stronghold) wins the game. If two (or more) players 
are tied for the highest position, the tied player who holds the 
greater number of Strongholds win. If there is still a tie, the tied 
player with the higher position on the Supply Track wins. If there 
is still a tie, the tied player with the most available power wins. In 
the extremely rare case there is still a tie, the tied player with the 
higher position on the Iron Throne track wins.
If a House, at any time, reaches the seventh position on the 
Victory Track (i.e., gains his seventh area containing a Castle or 
Stronghold) the game immediately ends and that player is the 
winner. 
Power Icon 
Consolidate Power Order 
Example
A lone Baratheon Footman remains on Dragonstone. During 
the Assign Orders step, Baratheon chooses to assign Dragonstone 
a Consolidate Power order. Later, during the Action phase, 
Baratheon resolves the order and gains two Power tokens: One 
Power token from the order itself, and one additional Power token 
for the Power icon printed in the Dragonstone area. He takes 
the two Power tokens from the Power Pool and adds them to his 
available power.

A player who controls such an adjacent Support order may now 
grant (or refuse to grant) his supporting Combat Strength to 
either the attacker or the defender.
Supporting Combat Strength means the combined Combat 
Strength of all units in the supporting area.
Support may be given to any adjacent combat, whether a 
supporting player’s own forces are in the combat, or the combat is 
between two other players.
If there are multiple Support Orders adjacent to the embattled 
area, support must be declared (or refused) in turn order.
If the attacking or defending player has friendly Support Orders 
in adjacent areas, he may support himself in the combat (and 
usually will do so). 
Combat
Whenever a player marches one or more of his units into an 
area containing units from another House, combat ensues. 
Combat is resolved by comparing the total Combat Strength of 
the battling sides. The victor is the player who gathers the highest 
Combat Strength. 
The following elements can contribute to Combat Strength:
ɇ Units in the combat
ɇ Supporting units
ɇ Defense Order (defender only)
ɇ March Order (attacker only)
ɇ The Valyrian Steel Blade token
ɇ House cards
ɇ Garrison token (defender only) 
The player resolving the March Order is considered the attacker 
(and his units are attacking) while the opponent occupying the 
contested area is the defender (and his units are defending). Any 
supporting units (via a Support Order from an adjacent area) are 
considered supporting (i.e., they are not considered attacking or 
defending).
Combat is resolved by performing the following steps: 
1.	 Call for Support
2.	 Calculate Initial Combat Strength
3.	 Choose and Reveal House Cards
4.	 Use Valyrian Steel Blade
5.	 Calculate Final Combat Strength
6.	 Combat Resolution
1. Call for Support
During the first step of combat, both attacker and defender may 
plead for support from all areas adjacent to the embattled area that 
contain a Support Order.
Unit Combat Strengths
Each unit type contributes a specific amount of Combat 
Strength to combat:
Footman: Adds 1 Combat Strength.
Knight: Adds 2 Combat Strength.
Ship: Adds 1 Combat Strength.
Siege Engine: Adds 4 Combat Strength 
when attacking (or supporting an attack 
against) an area containing a Castle or 
Stronghold. Otherwise it adds 0 Combat 
Strength.

Other Rules for Support Orders:
ɇ When a player grants support, his Support Order token is not 
removed after the combat. A Support Order may support any 
number of adjacent combats in the same game round. 
ɇ A Support Order gives no defensive benefit to attacks against 
its own area (the units in its area will defend normally).
ɇ Attacking or defending players may refuse support. 
ɇ Ship units may support adjacent combat in a sea area or a 
land area. Footmen, Knights, or Siege Engine units, however, 
may never provide support to combat in a sea area. 
ɇ Supporting Siege Engine units only provide supporting 
Combat Strength when supporting the attacker in an 
embattled area containing either a Castle or Stronghold. 
ɇ A supporting player must contribute an area’s full 
supporting Combat Strength, or none at all. 
ɇ A player may never support an opponent in combat against 
his own units. 
Reminder: Support can be granted only from an area containing 
a Support Order that is adjacent to the embattled area. Do not 
confuse the embattled area with the area the attacking March Order 
was assigned to (and from which the attackers marched).
See the “Support Example” sidebar for a comprehensive example 
of support in combat.
After all Support Orders adjacent to the embattled area have 
granted (or refused) support, proceed to the next Combat step.
2. Calculate Initial Combat Strength
Both sides now tally and announce their Combat Strength. 
This number is referred to as their Initial Combat Strength. It 
includes all Combat Strength bestowed from the following sources:
Attacking/defending units
Defense order bonus (for the defender only)
March order bonus/penalty (for the attacker only)
Supporting units and Special Support Order bonuses
Garrison token (see page 26) 
Both players clearly announce their initial Combat Strength 
after which the combat proceeds to the “Choose and Reveal House 
Cards” step.
Support Example
Tyrell is marching an army of two Knights from The Reach 
into Blackwater with a +1 March Order. Blackwater contains 
one Lannister Footman and a Lannister -1 March Order.
 As the first step of combat, players now call for support. 
There are three Support orders in areas adjacent to 
Blackwater: King’s Landing (Tyrell, one Knight), Stoney Sept 
(Lannister, one Footman and one Knight), and Harrenhal 
(Baratheon, one Knight). 
Lannister announces he is supporting himself from 
Stoney Sept (3 Combat Strength). Baratheon then 
announces his support to Lannister from Harrenhal (2 
Combat Strength). Finally, Tyrell announces he is supporting 
himself from King’s Landing (2 Combat Strength).
At this point in the battle Tyrell has 7 combat strength 
(4 for the attacking Knights, 2 for the support from King’s 
Landing, and 1 from the +1 March Order). Lannister has 6 
combat strength (1 for his defending Footman and 5 from the 
supporting units in Stoney Sept and Harrenhal). 

3. Choose and Reveal House Cards
Both attacker and defender now secretly select one House card 
from their hands of House cards. When both players are ready, the 
two cards are simultaneously revealed and any text abilities of the 
cards are resolved. 
Playing a House card during combat is mandatory. Both attacker 
and defender must play a card.
Combat then proceeds to step 4 “Use Valyrian Steel Blade.”
The House Cards
Each player begins the game with seven unique House cards. 
These represent characters lending their abilities and strength to 
combat (for a visual breakdown of a House card, see the “House 
Card Breakdown” diagram above).
After players reveal House cards during a combat, the text 
abilities of the two House cards are immediately resolved. Some 
text abilities specify that they are implemented later during the 
same combat (such as “at the end of the combat”) but unless stated 
otherwise, implement the effect immediately. 
There are instances when the exact order of House card 
resolution is important. Should a timing conflict occur, follow this 
order of operations:
1.	 Any “Ignore” or “Cancel” text abilities are first resolved in 
the player order of the Iron Throne track. 
A Greyjoy House Card
2.	 Other conflicting text abilities are then resolved in the player 
order of the Iron Throne track. 
3.	 After the outcome of combat is determined, any “win/lose 
this combat...” text abilities are resolved in the player order of 
the Iron Throne track. 
The text ability of the first card is implemented completely 
before that of the second card.
After a combat is resolved, the two played House cards are placed 
face-up in their respective player’s discard pile. While a House card is 
in a player’s discard pile, it is not available for use in combat. 
At the end of a combat, if a player used his last (i.e., seventh) 
House card, he then returns the other six House cards currently 
in his discard pile to his hand. The last played card remains in the 
discard pile.
The Combat Icons
Some cards do not have a text ability, instead they provide their 
player with one or more combat icons. There are two combat icons 
in A Game of Thrones: The Board Game: The Sword icon and the 
Fortification icon.
The Sword Icon: During the “Combat 
Resolution” step, the player who won the 
combat (i.e., the victor) counts the number 
of Sword icons on his House card. For each 
Sword icon, an enemy unit in the embattled area must be destroyed 
(see “Casualties” on page 20). 
The Fortification Icon: For each 
Fortification icon on the House card of the 
defeated player, one of the victor’s Sword 
icons is ignored.
Note: All House cards, whether available or used (i.e., 
discarded), are public knowledge. As such, a player’s discard pile 
or hand may be examined by others players at any time except 
during Step 3 of combat.
1.	 Leader Name and Artwork: The artwork and name 
identifying a personality from A Song of Ice and Fire. 
2.	 Combat Strength: The Combat Strength of a revealed 
House card is added to its player’s Combat Strength.
3.	 Text Ability: The House card’s special ability that may 
affect the combat or some other aspect of the game. 
4.	 Combat Icons: Cards without text abilities instead 
provide one or more sword and/or fortification icons. 
House Card Breakdown

4. Use Valyrian Steel Blade
If either the attacker or the defender holds the Valyrian Steel 
Blade token, that player now has the option of using its ability to 
provide +1 to his total Combat Strength. If used, flip the token to its 
faded side, as a reminder that it cannot be used again this round. 
5. Calculate Final Combat Strength
Both sides now combine their initial Combat Strength with 
any modifiers accumulated by playing House cards and using the 
Valyrian Steel Blade token. This final value is referred to as a player’s 
Final Combat Strength. 
Below is a summary of what could contribute to each player’s 
final Combat Strength:
ɇ Initial Combat Strength *
ɇ The Combat Strength and applicable text abilities of the 
chosen House card
ɇ The Valyrian Steel Blade’s +1 Combat Strength (if available 
and used)
* Some House card text abilities may cause a player’s initial 
Combat Strength to be recalculated. For example, if the text of a 
revealed House card destroys an opponent’s Footman unit, the initial 
Combat Strength of that opponent is reduced by 1 during this step. 
6. Combat Resolution
The combat is concluded by performing the following steps: 
1.	 Determine Victor
2.	 Casualties
3.	 Retreats and Routing
4.	 Combat Clean Up
1. Determine Victor
The player with the highest final Combat Strength wins the combat 
and his opponent is defeated. If the final Combat Strength results are 
tied, the player with the higher position (i.e., closer to the “1“ position) 
on the Fiefdoms track wins the combat. 
2. Casualties
Only the defeated player takes casualties in combat. Casualties 
are determined as follows: 
1.	 Victor’s Sword Icon: Count the number of Swords icons 
on the victor’s House card.
2.	 Defeated Player’s Fortification Icons: Count the number 
of Fortification icons on the defeated player’s House card.
Tyrell marches two units from King’s Landing into the 
Kingswood. Since there are two Lannister footmen units in the 
Kingswood, combat ensues.
 Since there are no adjacent Support Orders, Lannister’s 
initial combat strength is 2 (two Footmen) and Tyrell’s is 3 (one 
Footman, one Knight). Tyrell’s March Order was +0, giving him 
neither a Combat Strength bonus or penalty.
 Both players now secretly choose and reveal a House card 
from their hands. Lannister reveals “Ser Jaime Lannister” with 
a strength of 2 and one sword icon. Tyrell reveals “Alester 
Florent” with a strength of 1 and one fortification icon. 
Neither Lannister or Tyrell have the Valyrian Steel Blade, so 
no combat strength is received from this. 
Combat Resolution Example
The combatants are tied with a final combat strength of 4. 
However, Lannister is higher than Tyrell on the Fiefdoms track. 
Since a House’s position on the Fiefdoms track breaks ties in 
combat, Lannister is the victor. 
 Tyrell, having lost the combat, could potentially suffer 
casualties. However, Lannister’s single sword icon (from “Ser 
Jaime Lannister”) is offset by Tyrell’s single fortification icon (from 
“Alester Florent”), so Tyrell suffer no casualties in this combat.
Tyrell must now retreat. Being the attacker, he must retreat back 
to the area he marched from, and so retreats his units to King’s 
Landing, laying them on their side to indicate they are routed.

3.	 Defeated Player Suffers Casualties: The defeated 
player must destroy one unit in the embattled area for each 
Sword icon of the victorious player minus the number of 
Fortification icons of the defeated player (if the result is zero 
or less, the defender takes no casualties).
When a player suffers casualties, he decides which of his units 
are removed (unless stated otherwise by the text ability of a played 
House card). Remember that supporting units can never be taken 
as casualties in combat. 
Note: Each casualty suffered destroys a single unit, regardless 
of Combat Strength. In other words, removing a Knight unit as a 
casualty still counts as only one casualty even though its Combat 
Strength is 2. For this reason, it is generally best to remove 
Footmen units as casualties, if able.
3. Retreats and Routing
After suffering casualties, the losing army must retreat from 
the embattled area (supporting units do not retreat.)
If the attacker lost the combat, his surviving units must retreat 
back to the area from which they marched.
 If the defender lost the combat, his surviving units must retreat 
using the following rules:
ɇ The retreating units must retreat to one empty adjacent 
area (i.e., one containing no enemy units or enemy Power 
tokens) or to a friendly area (i.e., one containing friendly 
units, and/or a friendly Power token). 
ɇ The retreating units must retreat to the same area. 
ɇ The retreating units may never retreat to the area the 
attacking units marched from, even if it is empty.
ɇ A player may not retreat his defending units to an area 
containing friendly units if this would cause him to 
exceed his Supply limit. If a player’s only option is to 
retreat to such an area, he must first destroy as many 
retreating units as necessary to be compliant with his 
Supply limit after retreating to the area. After taking such 
losses, he may retreat the remaining units.
ɇ If there is no legal area in which to retreat, all retreating 
units are destroyed. 
ɇ Footmen or Knight units may not retreat to a sea area or a 
port. Ship units may never retreat to a land area.
After retreating, all retreated units are placed on their sides to 
signify they are now routed. Routed units provide no Combat 
Strength, but still count towards a player’s supply limit. If a routed 
unit is forced to retreat, it is instead destroyed. Routed units may 
never be chosen as casualties in combat and may not move, even if 
a March Order token is resolved in their new area. 
Other Retreat Rules
ɇ A player is allowed to use ship transport to retreat his 
units (see page 23 for ship transport rules). 
ɇ Siege Engine units cannot retreat. If a Siege Engine unit is 
forced to retreat, it is instead destroyed. 
4. Combat Clean Up
After combat is completed, remove the attacking player’s March 
Order token from the game board. 
If the combat was won by the attacker, remove any Order token the 
defender had assigned to the embattled area (if one remains) as well 
as any Power token in the area (which would exist if the defending 
player had previously established control there, see page 24).
If the combat was won by the defender, the defending player’s 
Power and Order tokens (if any) in the area are unaffected. 
Both played House cards are discarded to their respective player’s 
discard piles, and the “Resolve March Orders” step of the Action Phase 
now continues.
Retreating and 
 Routing Example
Baratheon has just attacked and defeated Tyrell in the 
Kingswood. Tyrell has taken his casualties and must retreat. 
1.	 Tyrell chooses to retreat his surviving Knight unit to Storm’s 
End (which contains another Tyrell Footman). The retreating 
Knight unit is placed on its side to indicate it is routed. 
2.	 Later that same game round, House Baratheon attacks 
Storm’s End with two Knights from The Boneway. In this 
combat, the Tyrell player will have an initial Combat Strength 
of 1 (for the Footman) as the routed Knight unit provides no 
Combat Strength. If House Tyrell loses the battle, his routed 
Knight will automatically be destroyed since a routed unit 
may not retreat.

Other Rules
The Special Orders
In addition to 10 normal Order tokens, each House also has five 
Special Order tokens. A player may use any of his 10 normal Order 
tokens during the Planning Phase, but may use only as many 
Special Order tokens as he has stars on his King’s Court Influence 
track position. 
For example, in a five or six-player game, the player on the 
highest position on the King’s Court track may use up to three 
Special Order tokens per game round, while the player in fourth 
position may only use a single Special orders, etc.
The capabilities of the Special Orders are described here:
Defense +2: Gives the defending player in its area 
+2 Combat Strength.
March +1: Gives +1 Combat Strength to the 
attacker when combat is initiated by this Special 
March Order.
Support +1: The supporting Combat Strength from 
this area is +1.
Raid: This token can be used as a normal Raid 
Order, or it can instead be resolved to remove any 
one adjacent Defense Order (remove both tokens).
Consolidate Power: This token can be used as a 
normal Consolidate Power Order token, or can be 
used to initiate mustering in its area following the 
rules for mustering described on page 9. Only 
the area that was assigned the Special Consolidate 
Power Order is mustered. If there’s no Castle or 
Stronghold in the assigned area, no mustering can 
take place.
While special orders are purely better than their regular 
counterparts, they have an additional subtle advantage: Having 
access to three instances of any order type (rather than two), can 
be of tremendous benefit to many strategies (such as launching a 
major offensive, quickly accumulating power, etc). 
WildLing Attacks 
In the icy north, an army of barbaric wildlings gather to 
descend upon the continent of Westeros. The ancient order of the 
Night’s Watch protects the massive Wall that defends against these 
(and even more insidious) dangers. Yet the strength of the Night’s 
Watch will fail without the support of the great Houses. 
In A Game of Thrones: the Board Game there are two events 
during the Westeros Phase which cause the wildlings to attack. 
They are:
ɇ The Wildling Threat token reaches “12” on the Wildling track
ɇ A “Wildling Attack” Westeros card is drawn and resolved
The Wildling Threat 
In all three Westeros decks (I, II, and III), some cards are marked 
with a Wildling icon. For each such Westeros card, the Wildling 
Threat token is advanced one space on the Wildlings track (in this 
way, it’s possible for the Wildling Threat token to advance up to 
three times during a single Westeros Phase). 
A wildling attack is resolved over the following steps:
1.	 Determine Wildling Strength: Check the current 
position of the Wildling Threat token. The number printed 
on its position on the Wildlings track is the strength of the 
wildling attack.
2.	 Bid Power: Each player hides his available power behind 
his player screen, and then secretly bids a number of Power 
tokens (from his available power) in a closed fist.
3.	 Calculate Night’s Watch Strength: Once all players 
have made their secret bid, bids are simultaneously revealed. 
Add together the total power bid by all players to determine 
the strength of the Night’s Watch.
4.	 Determine Outcome: If the strength of the Night’s 
Watch equals or exceeds the wildling strength, the wildling 
attack has been defeated. 
 
Wildling Icon

If the wildling strength exceeds the strength of the Night’s 
Watch, the wildlings are victorious. Players now resolve 
the “Consequences of a Wildling Attack” as described in the 
section below.
5.	 Adjust Wildlings Track: If the Night’s Watch are 
victorious, immediately reset the Wildling Threat token to “0“ on 
the Wildlings track. If the wildlings are victorious, however, the 
Wildling Threat token is only moved back two positions (to a 
minimum of “0”).
6.	 Discard Power: All Power tokens bid by players, 
regardless of victory or defeat, are discarded to the Power Pool. 
Consequences of a Wildling Attack
After the outcome of a wildling attack has been determined 
(during step 4 above), players face the ramifications of success or 
failure, as follows:
1.	 Reveal Wildling Card: Draw 
the top card of the Wildling deck 
to determine the reward or penalty 
players will receive. 
2.	 Resolve Wildling Card: 
If the Night’s Watch successfully 
defeated the wildlings, the player 
who bid the highest amount of 
Power receives the reward indicated 
under “Night’s Watch Victory” on the 
Wildling card. 
 
If the wildlings are victorious, the 
player who bid the least amount of 
Power suffers a severe penalty while the other players suffer a 
lesser penalty. Both the severe and lesser penalties are described 
on the Wildling card under “Wildling Victory”. 
3.	 Bury Wildling Card: Place the used Wildling card 
facedown on the bottom of the Wildling deck. 
As elsewhere in A Game of Thrones: The Board Game, the outcome 
of ties in bidding are decided by the holder of the Iron Throne 
token. For example, if the lowest bid is tied between two players, the 
holder of the Iron Throne token decides which of these two players is the 
lowest bidder.
The wildling attack is now over and the game proceeds.
Note: In rare circumstances, it’s possible for the wildlings 
to attack twice during one Westeros Phase. This would occur if 
enough Wildling icons were drawn to make the Wildling token 
reach the “12” position on the Wildling track, and the Westeros 
card “Wildlings Attack” was revealed. 
Ship Transport
The use of ships to transport land-based units is a very important 
aspect of A Game of Thrones: The Board Game. It allows Knights, 
Footmen, and Siege Engines to take advantage of the seas to travel 
much faster than they would be able on foot.
Any two land areas are considered adjacent for the purposes of 
marching and retreating when they are connected by consecutive 
sea areas (or a single sea area) each containing one or more 
friendly Ship units. In other words, Ship units in consecutively 
adjacent sea areas form a direct “bridge” for Knights, Footmen, and 
Siege Engines to move directly from a coastal area to another coastal 
area in one move. 
There is no limit to the number of times a player can use the 
same Ship unit(s) for ship transport in any given round. The same 
Ship unit(s) may even be used multiple times within the same 
March Order, transporting units from the area assigned a March 
Order to different destinations. However, a player may never use 
ships of another House as transports, even if given permission by 
that House. 
Other Rules for Ship Transport
ɇ Ship units can facilitate ship transport regardless of the 
type of Order token currently assigned to their sea area.
ɇ A routed Ship may be used for transport. 
ɇ Footmen, Knight, and Siege Engine units may, via ship 
transport, march into an enemy area and start combat 
there (remember, only one combat can be started for each 
March Order).
ɇ Ship units cannot move using ship transport.
ɇ While land areas connected by ship transport are 
considered adjacent for purposes of marching and 
retreating, they are not considered adjacent for any other 
purpose (including supporting and raiding).
Example of Ship Transport
Tyrell has one Ship in the Redwyne Straights, one Ship in 
the West Summer Sea, and one Ship in the East Summer Sea. 
As these sea areas are consecutively adjacent, any Tyrell unit in 
Highgarden can, with a single March Order, move directly to 
Sunspear (or any other coastal area adjacent to the ships).

Controlling Areas
A House is said to control a land area when it has at least one 
Footman, Knight, or Siege Engine in the area, or has previously 
established control in that area by placing a Power token there 
(see below). 
Establishing Control of an Area
If a player vacates a land area with all of his units, he stands 
to lose any benefit gained from controlling that area unless he 
chooses to establish control.
When a House vacates a land area (i.e., all its units leave during 
a March Order) the House may elect to establish control by placing 
a Power token from its available power in the vacated area (a 
House can never establish control over a sea area). Once placed 
on the game board, this Power token represents the support of 
local nobles as well as investments in guards, tax collectors, and 
bureaucrats loyal to the controlling House.
 If friendly units enter the area again, the Power token remains 
there, unaffected (and continues to establish control if the area is 
vacated once more). 
If a player leaves an area vacant before initiating a combat, he 
must decide whether or not to establish control of the vacated area 
before the combat begins.
A Power token on the game board is returned to the Power Pool 
only after an opponent takes control of its area. Marching into an 
area containing only an opponent’s Power token (i.e., no enemy 
units are present) does not result in combat, and the Power token 
is simply discarded to the Power Pool. 
Power tokens do not aid the defender in combat, nor do 
they count as “Power icons” printed on the game board (for the 
purposes of Consolidate Power tokens or the “Game of Thrones” 
Westeros card). 
Only one Power token can be in an area at any one time.
If a player has no available power, he’s unable to establish control.
Important: A player may only establish control when vacating 
an area with a March Order. Events that would leave an area 
vacant (such as negative effects from a Wildling victory) does not 
permit a player to establish control after the last unit is destroyed.
Controlling Home Areas
Each House has a home area marked by its House shield (printed 
directly on the game board). From the beginning of the game, a 
House is considered to have established control of its own home 
area, meaning the printed House shield functions like a Power token 
that cannot be removed. 
Players can control enemy home areas by either a) keeping 
friendly units in these areas, or b) by establishing control over the 
enemy home area. When establishing control over an enemy home 
area, the friendly Power token is placed directly over the printed 
enemy House shield. 
 If a player chooses not to, or cannot, leave a Power token behind 
when vacating an enemy player’s home area, control of that home 
area immediately reverts back to its original House.
Reminder: A retreating army can never retreat into an area 
containing an enemy Power token.
Alliances
Players are always free (in any phase, at any time) to make 
promises and seek alliances with other Houses. Promises and 
alliances, however, are never binding and can be broken for any 
reason. Even the staunchest ally cannot be 100% sure of the good 
intentions of his partners. The Iron Throne, after all, can seat 
only one. 
There are three strict rules governing what conspiring players 
are allowed to do: 
ɇ Players may never show other players (in public or secret), 
any assigned Order token. Nor may a player show unused 
Order tokens to other players during the Planning Phase 
(so that others may, by deduction or estimation, know 
what the player may have assigned to the game board).
ɇ A player may also never give, donate, bribe, etc. any game 
item such as Power tokens, Dominance tokens, Order 
tokens, House cards, etc. to another player. 
ɇ Bids must always be made in secret. A player may not 
show any opponent his bid before revealing it.

Ports
Ports function as a special area between the land and sea area 
they connect. Only the player controlling the connected land area 
may use the connected Port and is considered the Port’s “owner.” 
Using Ports
Port areas may only be occupied by Ship units. Multiple Ship 
units occupying a Port are considered an army and must be 
in compliance with supply limits. In addition to normal army 
restrictions, a Port may never contain more than three Ship 
units at one time. 
If the land area connected to a Port musters new units, the 
player may muster Ship units directly in the Port itself or in the 
adjacent sea area. 
A player may muster Ship units into a connected Port, even if 
the connected sea area is occupied by one or more Enemy Ship 
units. (In fact, the ability to muster ships in a port, even if the 
connected sea area is occupied by enemy units, is the single most 
powerful feature of Ports.)
Orders in Ports
Just as units in normal areas, Ship units in a Port area must 
receive an Order token during the Assign Orders step of the 
Planning Phase. While Defense orders may be placed on a Port, 
they have no effect as Ports cannot be attacked directly.
Other Port Rules
ɇ Ships units may march from an adjacent sea area into a 
friendly Port, or may march from a Port into an adjacent 
sea area. However, Ship units may never march into a 
Port owned by another player.
ɇ Ship units in a Port may support a combat in the adjacent 
sea area but may not support a combat in any adjacent 
land area (not even in its connected land area). Ship 
units in a Port provide no defensive Combat Strength to a 
combat in its connected land area.
ɇ Ship units in a Port may raid the adjacent sea area, but 
may not raid any adjacent land area.
ɇ Ship units in a connected sea area may raid a Port. Enemy 
units in adjacent land areas, however, may not raid a Port.
ɇ If, during the Resolve Consolidate Power Orders step of the 
Action Phase, there are enemy ships in the sea area connected 
to a port, any Consolidate Power Order assigned to the Port 
is removed without effect. Otherwise, a Consolidate Power 
Order in a Port is resolved normally (as if it was in a land area 
containing no Power icons). 
ɇ A Special Consolidate Power Order cannot be used to 
muster units if placed on a port, but may still be used to 
collect power as normal (subject to the above point).
Taking Control of Enemy Ports
If the land area connected to a Port is successfully attacked and 
taken control of by another player, that player may immediately 
replace any enemy Ship units in the Port with an equal number 
of his own available Ship units (or as many Ship units as he has 
available, he desires, or is allowed by supply limits). Excess enemy 
ships are simply removed from the board. 
Trade with the Free Cities 
When the “Game of Thrones” Westeros card is resolved during 
the Westeros Phase, in addition to collecting power for each 
Power icon, players receive one Power token for each friendly Port 
containing at least one friendly Ship unit, as long as the Port’s 
connected sea area does not contain enemy Ships.
A “Mustering” Westeros card was just drawn during the 
Westeros Phase. Martell is first in the turn order and so 
musters units first. 
Martell uses the 2 mustering points provided by Sunspear to 
muster one Footman and one Ship unit. He decides to place the 
Ship unit in the Port of Sunspear (it may also have been placed in 
the Sea of Dorne, but not the Tyrell-occupied East Summer Sea). 
Later, during the Planning Phase, Martell assigns a Raid 
Order to the Port of Sunspear. In the Action Phase, he executes 
that Order to cancel a Support Order assigned to the East 
Summer Sea. 
Example of Port Use

Garrisons
Garrisons are special tokens that provide 
extra defense to the home area of each House. 
Each House starts the game with a 
Garrison token on its home area. Garrisons 
are not units, so they do not count toward 
Supply limits and may never be assigned an order.
If a home area containing a Garrison is attacked, the strength 
of the Garrison (the value printed on the token) is added to the 
defender’s initial Combat Strength (see page 17). If there are no 
units defending a location with a Garrison token, combat still 
occurs as normal as if the Garrison was a single unit.
If a Garrison is defeated in combat (whether defending by itself 
or with other friendly units), it is permanently removed from the 
game, regardless of the number of Sword or Fortification icons on 
House cards played in the combat.
Players may not assign orders to an area containing only 
a Garrison. A Garrison’s strength is only used when its area is 
attacked, not for support or any other purpose. Garrisons are 
purely defensive forces.
Garrisons are immune to the effect of Skull icons on the “Tides 
of Battle” cards, see page 29. 
 
Neutral Force Tokens
Neutral Force tokens represent the resistance of independent 
houses unwilling to submit to the machinations of the players. 
Neutral forces are placed on the board during setup.
Players may march units into an area occupied by a Neutral Force 
in order to destroy the Neutral Force and control the area. This may 
not be attempted, however, unless the marching player has sufficient 
Combat Strength to defeat the Neutral Force.
Destroying a Neutral Force
In order to destroy a Neutral Force and gain control of its area, 
a marching player must equal or exceed the strength value printed 
on the Neutral Force token by the combination of Combat Strength 
factors listed below: 
ɇ Count the Combat Strength of the marching units (Siege 
Engines only count their strength if the Neutral Force’s 
area contains a Castle or Stronghold).
ɇ No House cards are played. 
ɇ The March Order bonus (or penalty) applies.
ɇ Neutral Forces cannot receive support from adjacent areas.
ɇ The attacking player may receive support against the 
Neutral Force from adjacent areas (as in combat).
ɇ The Valyrian Steel Blade may not be used to receive a 
+1 bonus. 
If the marching player’s Combat Strength equals or exceeds the 
Neutral Force’s strength value, the token is destroyed and removed 
from the game. The marching player moves his units into the area 
as normal.
Marching against a Neutral Force counts as the March Order’s 
one allowed attack. 
Most Neutral Force tokens 
used in three-player games are 
marked with a “~” in place of their 
strength value. These represent 
insurmountable areas which 
cannot be entered. Areas containing 
such tokens are therefore off-limits to all players for the entirety of 
the game.
Attacking a Neutral Force 
Tyrell wishes to march into Sunspear from Yronwood. 
However, Sunspear contains a Neutral Force token with a 
strength of 5. 
The Tyrell army contains 1 Knight and 1 Footman and is 
using the March +1 Special order, giving Tyrell a total of 4 
Combat Strength. To bring his Combat Strength to 5, Tyrell 
calls upon his Support order in the Sea of Dorne, where a 
single Ship unit grants him 1 supporting Combat Strength.
Because the Tyrell army (strength 5 when counting the 
support) now equals the strength value of the Neutral Force 
token, the march is successful and the Sunspear Neutral Force 
token is destroyed. Tyrell then marches his army into Sunspear.

 Game Board Features
While the game board consists mainly of land and sea areas, 
there are three unique features that deserve additional explanation:
Rivers: These watery boundaries prevent 
movement between the land areas they 
divide. In other words, two areas separated 
by a river are not, for any game purpose 
(marching, supporting, raiding, etc) 
considered adjacent. 
Bridges: As an exception to the above 
rule for rivers, any two areas separated by a 
river and joined by a bridge, are considered 
adjacent for all game purposes.
Island Areas: Three land areas 
(Dragonstone, Pyke, and The Arbor) 
are special in that they’re completely 
surrounded by sea areas. Even so, they are 
still considered land areas and must follow 
all normal rules for land areas. 
Due to their special island status, however, 
Footmen, Knights, and Siege Engines must 
use Ship transport when moving to and from these areas.
All other small islands on the game board (i.e., without a white 
border) are for cosmetic purposes only and are not actual play areas.
Adjusting 
Influence Tracks
There are a few cards (such as Doran Martell’s House card, or 
the “A King Beyond the Wall” Wildling card) that force Influence 
tokens to shift on the Influence tracks outside the normal bidding 
that occurs during a “Clash of Kings” Westeros Card.
 Whenever a player shifts position on an Influence track 
due to such special circumstance, all other players must adjust 
accordingly. For example, if one player is required to shift to the 
highest position on a track (the “1” position), the current player in 
that position must shift backwards to the “2” position, etc. If such a 
shift would cause a player to lose the “1” position on any track, 
he must immediately give the corresponding Dominance token 
(in the same state it was in, used or available) to the new player 
inhabiting the “1” position. Such a shift on the King’s Court track 
does not affect any special orders already assigned legally to the 
board, but may restrain or expand their availability during the 
next Planning Phase.
The Arbor
Hidden Information
Each player is provided with a player screen to keep certain 
elements of the game hidden from the other players.
From the very beginning of the game, players should always keep 
their unused Order tokens behind their player screens. 
Except just prior to any bidding, each player’s available power 
tokens must remain visible for all other players to see. 
Whenever players are instructed to bid in the game (such as for 
position on the Influence tracks or to stave off wildling attacks), it 
is good practice for all players to first announce their total available 
power after which all players temporarily pull their available power 
tokens behind their player screen before secretly selecting their bid.
Available Power tokens hidden in this manner stay behind the 
player screens for the duration of the bidding. At the end of bidding, 
available Power tokens are made visible to other players once more.
The contents of a player’s House card discard pile and his hand of 
House cards is open information except when players are choosing 
House cards during Step 3 of combat. 

Playing With Fewer than 
 six players
Five-Player Games
In a five-player game, House Martell cannot be chosen as a 
player House.
During setup for a five-player game, place the nine Neutral 
Force tokens marked with the “4-6” and “4-5” player ranges on the 
game board, matching the name on each Neutral Force token to its 
Four-Player Games
In a four-player game, neither House Martell nor House Tyrell 
can be chosen as player Houses.
During setup for a four-player game, place all 12 Neutral Force 
tokens marked with the “4-6”, “4-5”, and “4” player ranges on the 
game board, matching the name on each Neutral Force token to its 
Then place the King’s Court Overlay on top of the King’s Court 
Influence track, covering the first four positions (see diagram).
Three-Player Games
In a three-player game, House Martell, House Tyrell, and House 
Greyjoy cannot be chosen as player Houses. 
During setup for a three-player game, place the 14 Neutral 
Force tokens marked with the “3” player range on the game 
board, matching the name on each Neutral Force token to its 
Then place the King’s Court Overlay on top of the King’s Court 
Influence track, covering the first four positions (see diagram).
Five-Player Game Setup
Four-Player Game Setup
King’s Court Overlay
Three-Player Game Setup
King’s Court Overlay

Tides of Battle is an optional module to A Game of Thrones: The 
Board Game that adds an element of unpredictably and deadliness 
to combat. This increased risk can make negotiation even more 
vital, gaining support in combat more critical; it creates additional 
drama (and casualties) in combat and breeds entirely different 
strategies for your A Game of Thrones: The Board Game experience.
Before playing, all players should agree whether to use this option. 
If agreed, shuffle the Tides of Battle cards into a single deck, placing it 
near the game board during setup. 
Tides of Battle makes the following modifications to combat:
1.	 Drawing Tides of Battle 
Cards: After choosing and revealing 
House cards, the attacking and 
defending player each draw one 
Tides of Battle card from the top of 
the deck and privately examines it. 
2.	 Using the Valyrian Steel 
Blade: Before revealing the two 
Tides of Battle cards, if either the 
attacking or defending player holds 
the Valyrian Steel Blade token, he may use it to discard his 
first Tides of Battle card and draw another one to replace it. 
He must keep the new Tides of Battle card. He then flips his 
Valyrian Steel Blade token to its faded side to show it has been 
used this game round.
3.	 Revealing Tides of Battle Cards: Each player reveals 
his Tides of Battle card, adding the specified Combat Strength 
modifier (the number in 
the shield) to his current 
Combat Strength.
4.	 Modify Casualties: 
Each player then adds any 
Sword or Fortification icons 
on his Tides of Battle card 
to his House card (as if they 
were printed on his played 
House card). 
Tides of Battle
Added to House 
card icons
Added to 
 combat strength
After resolving casualties from Sword icons, players resolve any 
Skull icons on drawn Tides of Battle cards as follows:
If a player’s Tides of Battle card features a Skull icon, the 
opposing player must suffer one casualty regardless of which 
player was victorious in the combat.
This casualty is in addition to any other casualties 
dealt during combat, and cannot be prevented by 
Fortification icons. Removing this casualty follows all 
other rules and restrictions found on page 21.
Skull Icon

Playtesters: Greg Benage, Daniel Lovat Clark, Mike Dockerty, 
Tony Doepner, Gabriel Dudrey, David Gagner, John Goodenough, 
Derek Goodwin, Darrell Hardy, Patrick Harrigan, Carl Hotchkiss, 
Chris Hulke, Eric M. Lang, Adrian Larson, Dallas Mehlhoff, Matt 
Mehlhoff, Kevin Melby, Jerry Murphy, Andrew Navaro, Scott 
Nicely, Brian Olmstead, Eric Olsen, Matthew Pohl, Tina Reynolds, 
Brian Schomburg, Shawn Sieben, John Sweeney, James Torr, Eric 
Tyrell, Aaron Van Koningsveld, Robert Vaughn, Joe Veen, James 
Voelker, Scott Weber, Kevin Wilson, Brian Wood, Zach Yanzer, 
Katin Yang, Touyee Yang, and Jamie Zephyr.
Special Thanks to: Daniel & Kat Abraham, Edge Studio, Tony 
Doepner, Carl Keim, Eric M. Lang, George R.R. Martin, Kay 
McCauley, Gretchen D. Petersen, Thomas H. Petersen, Robert 
Vaughn, Melinda M. Snodgrass, and Mike Zebrowski.
The names, descriptions, and depictions applied to this game are 
derived from works copyrighted by George R. R. Martin, and may not 
be used or reused without his permission.
©2011 George R.R. Martin, ©2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. 
All rights reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without 
specific written permission. A Song of Ice and Fire ©2011, used under 
License. A Game of Thrones The Board Game, Fantasy Flight Games, 
Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy 
Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West 
County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can 
be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for 
your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to small 
parts. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTEND-
ED FOR PERSONS AGES 13 OR YOUNGER.
Visit Us on the Web:
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
Credits
Based on the A Song of Ice and Fire novels by 
George R.R. Martin
Game Design: Christian T. Petersen 
Additional Game Development: Corey Konieczka, Jason 
Walden, and Kevin Wilson
Producer: Jason Walden
Rules Writing: Christian T. Petersen and Jason Walden
Editing and Proofreading: Molly Glover, Michael Hurley, 
Corey Konieczka, Matt Mehlhoff, Sarah Sadler, 
Julian Smith, and Anton Torres.
Graphic Design: David Ardila, Kevin Childress, 
Brian Schomburg, and Michael Silsby
Cover Art: Tomasz Jedruszek
Map Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Interior Art: Alex Aparin, Ryan Barger, Mike Capprotti, 
Trevor Cook, Thomas Denmark, Adam Denton, Chris 
Dien, Sacha Diener, Mark Evans, Anders Finer, John 
Gravato, Chris Griffin, Rafal Hrynkiewicz, Tomasz 
Jedruszek, Andrew Johanson, Michael Komarck, Henning 
Ludvigsen, John Matson, Dennis McElroy, Patrick 
McEvoy, Torstein Nordstrand, Roman V. Papsuev, Natasha 
Roeoesli, Grzegorz Rutkowski, Mark Simonett, Johnathan 
Standing, Matthew Starbuck, SYM7, Xia Taptara, Jean Tay, 
Sedone Thongvilay, Tim Truman, Magali Villeneuve, 
and Doug Williams.
Sandor Clegane, Melisandre, Eddard Stark, and Loras Tyrell 
card art copyright Michael Komarck.
Figure Photography and 3d Imaging: Jason Beaudoin
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Managing Graphic Designer: Brian Schomburg
FFG Licensing Coordinator: Deb Beck
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen

FANTASY
FLIGHT
GAMES
Now that you’ve experienced the intrigue and excitement of A Game of Thrones: The Board Game, see the Seven 
Kingdoms in a whole new way with Battles of Westeros!
This epic board game of battlefield tactics lets players control either House Stark, the stoic and honorable wards of 
Winterfell, or House Lannister, a cunning force funded by an endless supply of gold. And with an ever-growing selection 
of expansions, you can even enlist the support of House Tully, the clans of the Vale, and more! Manage realistic factors 
like troop deployment, communication, and morale as you guide your forces into the fray. Only the most clever and 
fearless tacticians can claim victory. Are you ready to earn glory for your house?
BW01 - Battles of Westeros
BW02 - Wardens of the West
BW03 - Wardens of the North
BW04 - Lords of the River
BW06 - Tribes of the Vale
TM

Dominance Tokens...................................................11
Iron Throne Token...............................................................11
Messenger Raven Token..................................................11
Valyrian Steel Blade Token.............................................11
Enemy/Opponent, Definition....................................6
Friend/Friendly, Definition........................................6
Game Round...............................................................7
Game Setup.................................................................4
Garrisons...................................................................26
Hidden Information.................................................27
Home Area, Definition...............................................6
House Cards..............................................................19
House Card Breakdown...........................................19
House/Player, Definition............................................6
Influence Track Bidding, Example..........................10
Influence Tracks........................................................11
Influence Tracks, Adjustments................................27
Neutral Force Tokens...............................................26
Object of the Game.....................................................2
Overview......................................................................2
Planning Phase.........................................................12
Player Screen Diagram..............................................6
Playing With Fewer Than Six Players....................28
Ports...........................................................................24
Power, collecting and discarding..............................6
Raid Order.................................................................13
Raid Order Resolution, Example............................14
Retreats and Routing...............................................21
Rivers.........................................................................27
Setup Diagram............................................................5
Ship Transport..........................................................23
Ship Transport, Example.........................................23
Supply, Example.........................................................8
Support Order...........................................................13
Tides of Battle cards.................................................29
Turn Order, Definition................................................6
Unit Combat Strengths............................................17
Unit, Definition...........................................................6
Westeros Cards...........................................................7
Westeros Card: Clash of Kings................................10
Westeros Card: Mustering.........................................9
Westeros Card: Supply...............................................8
Westeros Phase...........................................................7
Wilding Attacks........................................................22
Winning the Game...................................................16
Index
Action Phase, The.....................................................14
Resolve Consolidate Power Orders..............................16
Resolve March Orders......................................................15
Resolve Raid Orders..........................................................14
Alliances....................................................................26
Area, Definition...........................................................6
Army/Armies, Definition...........................................6
Assign Orders...........................................................12
Available Power, Definition.......................................6
Battle Clean Up.........................................................21
Bridges.......................................................................27
Casualties..................................................................20
Combat.......................................................................17
Call for Support...................................................................17
Calculate Initial Combat Strength..............................18
Choose and Reveal House Cards..................................19
Calculate Final Combat Strength................................20
Use Valyrian Steel Blade.................................................20
Resolve the Combat............................................................20
Determine Combat Victor...............................................20
Component List...........................................................2
Component Overview.................................................3
Consolidate Power Order.........................................13
Controlling Areas.....................................................23
Controlling Home Areas..........................................24
Defence Order...........................................................13
Destroy, Definition......................................................6