A
B
B
C
D
E
 The kingdoms let you recruit from their slums and prisons; but, otherwise, they 
have all but forgotten you. You still control the ancient territory called the “Gift.” 
The Gift is bounded by the Starks’ kingdom to the south and the 
seas to the east and west. To the north stands the Wall—the 
towering dam holding back the wildlings and the other 
horrors of the northern wastes. You must settle and 
expand your holding in the Gift. After all, starving 
and poorly armed men make poor guards.
 There are 6 terrain types. Five of the terrain 
types produce a different type of resource. 
Each resource you receive is represented by a 
card. Here’s what each terrain produces:
 You only collect resources if you own a settlement or a keep bordering a terrain hex 
producing a resource. In the illustration, the red settlement [A] borders the “10” mountains 
hex. The blue and black settlements [B] border the “10” pasture. If a “10” 
is rolled, the red player receives 1 ore card; and the blue and black 
players each receive 1 wool card. 
 Since the settlements and keeps usually border on 
2-3 terrain types, they can “harvest” up to 3 different 
resources based on the dice roll. Here, the yellow 
settlement [C] borders on forest, mountains, and 
pasture. A settlement at [D] would only harvest the 
resources from 2 terrain hexes (pasture and forest). 
Finally, a settlement at [E] would only harvest the 
resource from 1 terrain hex (hills). However, [E] 
is also at an ore trade route.
 Since it’s impossible for you to have settlements 
adjacent to all terrain hexes and number tokens, you 
may receive certain resources only at rare intervals 
(or never). This is tough, because building requires 
specific resource combinations.
 For this reason, you can trade with the supply 
or trade with other players. Make them an offer! A 
successful trade might yield you a big build!
 You can only build a new settlement on an 
unoccupied intersection—provided that one of your 
own roads leads to that intersection and the nearest 
settlement is at least 2 intersections away.
 Carefully consider where you build settlements. There are 
numbers of varying size and pips (dots) on each number token. The 
taller the number (and the more pips it has), the more likely you are to roll that 
number during the game. 
Bottom line: The more frequently a number is rolled, the more often the hexes with those 
numbers produce resources. You should consider settling on hexes that have good potential 
for production (e.g., 6 & 8 versus 2 or 12). However, these same hexes are often primary 
targets for Tormund the Robber. 
 Game Overview
Settlement
Path
If you are new to Catan, play the base game rules before you play the full game!
If you are new to Catan, please read this Game Overview first (page 1). Next, read the Base Game Rules (pages 2-4) and start to play base Catan. 
If you already familiar with base Catan, read the rules and play the full Brotherhood of the Watch game! These rules begin on page 5. 
If you have questions at any time during your games, you can look up keywords (marked 󲀂) in the Rules Reference (included as a separate booklet).
 You begin the game with 2 settlements and 
2 roads. Each settlement is worth 1 victory point. 
You therefore start the game with 2 victory points! 
The first player to acquire 10 victory points on his/her 
turn wins the game. 
 To gain more victory points, you must build new roads and 
settlements. You can also upgrade settlements to keeps. Each keep is worth 
2 victory points. To build or upgrade, you need to acquire resources. 
 How do you get resources? It's simple. Each turn, 2 dice are rolled to determine which 
terrain hexes produce resources. Each terrain hex is marked with a round number token. If, 
for example, a “10” is rolled, all terrain hexes with a “10” number token produce resources—
in the illustration on this page, those terrain hexes are mountains (ore) and a pasture (wool).
Road
Intersections
To make your first game as easy as possible, 
we use the award-winning "Catan" rules system.
Tormund 
the Robber
Standard Set-up 
for Base Game
Trade Route
Forest 
produces lumber
Hills 
produce brick
Pasture 
produces wool
Fields 
produce grain
Mountains 
produce ore
Ice Fields 
produces nothing

These rules contain all the important information that you need to play! If you need more information during the game, you can 
look up keywords in the Rules Reference 
. Keywords are marked with a “󲀂” symbol.
Starting Set-up for 
Beginners
The frame pieces hold the board together and prevent the 
terrain hexes from moving after the board is in place. Referring 
to the illustration on page 1, set up the game board (if you play 
with 3 players, use the same set-up without the red pieces):
•	 Assemble the frame pieces as shown.
•	 Place the hexes face up inside the frame as shown.
•	 Place 1 number token on each hex as shown.
Note: After your first game, you can play the base game with a 
variable board. See the Rules Reference for instructions.
Set-Up
•	 Sort the resource cards into 
5 stacks. Put them face up next 
to the board to form 
the supply.
•	 Set the 11 hero cards and the 2 “New Recruits” 
cards aside. You don't 
use them in the base game.
•	 Shuffle the development 
cards. Place them face 
down by the board.
•	 Place the special cards “LONGEST 
ROAD” and “LARGEST PATROL” 
beside the board, 2 VP side up. Place the 
two 6-sided dice beside the board.
Setting Up the Players
•	 Leave the 12 sided die, gray figures, wall, and the guards in 
the box. You won't need them in the base game.
Then, each player does the following:
•	 Choose a player color. Take all of the player pieces of that 
color and a building cost card. Place them in front of you.
•	 Place 2 settlements and 2 roads of your color as indicated in 
the illustration on page 1.
•	 You receive 1 resource 󲀂 for each terrain hex adjacent to 
your starting settlement (your settlement marked with a 
white star on page 1). Take the appropriate resource cards 
from their stacks. Keep your resource cards hidden from your 
opponents.
Example: In the illustration on page 1, see the blue settlement on 
the right, marked with a star. Blue receives 1 brick, 1 lumber, and 
1 ore for his settlement.
 Base Game Rules
Turn Overview
On your turn, you perform the following steps in the 
order listed:
•	 Step 1: Roll the 6-sided dice for resource production 󲀂 first 
(the result applies to all players). 
•	 Step 2: You may trade 󲀂 resource cards with other players 
and/or trade with the supply 󲀂.
•	 Step 3: You may build roads 󲀂, settlements 󲀂, and/or keeps 
󲀂, and/or buy development cards 󲀂.
You may also play 1 development card at any time during 
your turn.
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player to your left, who 
then continues the game with step 1.
The oldest player goes first.
The Turn in Detail
1. Resource Production 󲀂
You begin your turn by rolling the two 6-sided dice. The sum of 
the dice determines which terrain hex(es) produce resources.
Each player who has a settlement on an intersection 󲀂 that 
borders a terrain hex marked with the number rolled receives 
1 resource card of the hex’s type. For an example, see resource 
production 󲀂. If you have 2 or 3 settlements bordering that 
hex, you receive 1 resource card for each settlement. You receive 
2 resource cards for each keep you own that borders that hex. If 
there are not enough of a given resource in the supply to fulfill 
everyone’s production, look in the Rules Reference.
Example: If a “6” is rolled, Red receives 2 brick for his 
2 settlements. Blue receives 1 brick for his 1 settlement. 
If a “4” is rolled, Blue receives 1 grain. If Blue's settlement were a 
keep, he would receive 2 grain instead.
Add 1 of your guards 
to the Wall for free.
new recruits

2. Trade 󲀂
After the dice roll is resolved, you may trade freely to gain 
resource cards (using either or both types of trades below):
a) Trade with Players 󲀂
On your turn, you can trade resource cards with any of the 
other players. You can announce which resources you need and 
what you are willing to trade for them. The other players can 
also make their own proposals and counteroffers to you.
Important: Players may only trade with the player whose turn it 
is. The other players may not trade among themselves. 
b) Trade with the Supply 󲀂
You can also trade 󲀂 without the other players! During your 
turn, you can always trade at 4:1 by putting 4 identical resource 
cards back in the supply and taking any 1 resource card of your 
choice from it. If you have a settlement/keep on a trade route 
󲀂, you can trade with the supply at a more favorable rate: 3:1 
or 2:1 as indicated by the trade route.
Important: The 4:1 trade is always possible, even if you do not 
have a settlement or keep on a trade route.
3. Build 󲀂
Now you can build. Through building, you can increase your 
victory points 󲀂, expand your road network, improve your 
resource production, and/or buy useful development cards. To 
build, you must pay specific combinations of resource cards 
(see the Build Costs Card 󲀂). Take the appropriate number 
of roads, settlements, and/or keeps you built from your supply. 
Place them immediately on the board. Return the resource 
cards you spent to their respective supply stacks.
You cannot build more pieces than what is available in your 
pool—a maximum of 5 settlements, 4 keeps, and 15 roads.
a) Road 󲀂 Requires: Brick & Lumber
A new road must always connect to one of your existing roads, 
settlements, or keeps. Only 1 road can be built on any given 
path 󲀂. 
The first player to build a continuous road 
(not counting forks) of at least 5 road segments 
that is not interrupted by a foreign road or keep 
receives the special card “Longest Road 󲀂.” If 
another player succeeds in building a longer road 
than the one created by the current owner of the 
“Longest Road” card, that player immediately 
takes the special card (and its 2 victory points). 
In this case, there is a 4 victory point swing!
Road Build Example: Blue may build a road on the paths 
marked in green. Blue cannot build on the path marked in red, for 
yellow's settlement blocks the way.
Longest Road Example: Red has a continuous connection of 
6 roads (not counting the fork); therefore she has the “Longest 
Road.” Blue's 7-road linkage is interrupted by one of Red's 
settlements. So, Blue's longest road is 5.
b) Settlement 󲀂 Requires: 1 brick, 
1 wool, 1 grain, and 1 lumber 
Take special note of the “Distance Rule” 󲀂: you may only 
build a settlement at an intersection if all 3 of the adjacent 
intersections are vacant (i.e., none are occupied by any 
settlements or keeps—even yours).
Each of your settlements must connect to at least one of your 
own roads. When a terrain hex produces, you receive resources 
regardless of whose turn it is. You receive 1 resource card for 
each settlement you have adjacent to that terrain hex.
Each settlement is worth 1 victory point.
See the settlement example on the next page.
Trade w/supply 4:1 without a trade route
Trade w/supply with a
3:1 trade route
Trade w/supply with
2:1 lumber trade route
Longest Road
Fork

Example: Red may build a settlement on the intersection marked 
in green. Red cannot build on the intersections marked in red 
because she has to observe the distance rule.
c) Keep 󲀂 Requires: 3 Ore & 2 Grain
You may only establish a keep by upgrading 1 of your 
settlements.
When you upgrade a settlement to a keep, put that 
settlement piece back in your supply and replace it with a keep 
piece.
A keep allows you to acquire 2 resource cards for an adjacent 
terrain hex that produces resources.
Each keep is worth 2 victory points.
d) Buying a Development Card 󲀂 
	
Requires: Ore, Wool, & Grain
When you buy a development card, draw the top card from the 
deck. 
There are 3 different kinds of development cards: ranger 
patrol 󲀂 (purple banner), progress 󲀂 (green), and victory 
point 󲀂 (orange). Each has a different effect (see below).
Development cards never go back into the supply, and you 
cannot buy development cards if the supply is empty.
Keep your development cards hidden (in your hand) until 
you use them, so your opponents can’t anticipate your play.
4. Special Cases
a) Rolling a “7” and Activating 
Tormund 󲀂
If you roll a “7”, no one receives any resources.
Instead, each player who has more than 7 
resource cards must select half (rounded down) of his/her 
resource cards and return them to the supply.
Then you must move Tormund 󲀂. Proceed as follows:
(1) You must move Tormund 󲀂 immediately to a number 
token on any other terrain hex.
(2) Then you steal 1 (random) resource card from 
1 opponent who has a settlement or keep adjacent to the 
target terrain hex. The player who is robbed holds his/her 
resource card hand face down. You then take 1 card at 
random. If the target hex is adjacent to 2 or more players’ 
settlements or keeps, you choose which one you want to 
steal from.
Important: If the production number for the hex containing 
Tormund is rolled, the owners of adjacent settlements and keeps 
do not receive resources. Tormund prevents it.
b) Playing Development Cards 󲀂
At any time during your turn, you may play 1 development 
card (put it face up on the table). That card, however, may not 
be a card you bought during the same turn (except for a victory 
point card, as described below)!
Ranger Patrols 󲀂
In the base game, when you play a ranger patrol card, 
you can only use the option: Move Tormund as if you 
had rolled a “7”. You must immediately move him.
Once played, ranger patrol cards remain face 
up in front of you. The first player to have 3 
ranger patrol cards in front of himself receives 
the special card “Largest Patrol,” which is worth 
2 victory points. If another player has more 
ranger patrol cards in front of him than the current 
holder of the Largest Patrol card, he immediately takes the 
special card and its 2 victory points.
Progress Cards 󲀂
If you play a progress card, follow its 
instructions. Then remove the card from the 
game (i.e., toss it in the box).
Victory Point Cards 󲀂
You must keep victory point cards 
hidden. You may only reveal them 
during your turn and when you 
are sure that you have 10 victory 
points—that is, to win the game. Of course, you can reveal them 
after the end of the game if someone else wins. You may play 
any number of victory point cards during your turn, even during 
the turn you purchase them (if playing them gives you the win).
Ending the Game 󲀂
If you have—or reach—10 victory points on your turn, the 
game ends immediately and you win! You can only win during 
your turn. You cannot win during another player's turn. If 
somehow you find that you have 10+ victory points during 
another player’s turn, you must wait until your next turn.
Largest 
Patrol

You serve as a shield against the darkness. You form the rear guards for the thrones of the south. You are the Night’s Watch! You do not play 
the Game of Thrones—you are the only thing that holds back the wildlings trying to migrate to the warmer southern lands. Because winter is 
coming…
You are recognized by your fellow brothers of the Night’s Watch as a natural leader. You oversee a small cadre in their day-to-day duties. 
It is your duty to insure that the defenses of the Wall are properly manned by guards. To accomplish this, you need to secure a steady supply of 
resources that flow from the small settlements, fortified keeps, and roads in the Gift. If you do your job well, you will become the new Lord 
Commander.
Important: The rules for Brotherhood of the Watch use all of the base rules, with the following changes:
The Wall, the Gift, & 
the Wildlings
The board represents the region of northern Westeros that 
contains the Wall and the Gift. The Wall protects the kingdoms 
to the south and the gift of land that supports the guards on 
that Wall. This board is made up of the terrain hexes of the Gift 
and the frame pieces that hold those hexes together. The frame 
has spaces for the clan areas, camps, trails, and clearings north 
of the Wall.
The wildlings start the game in an area called the Frostfangs. 
During play, certain actions (like building a settlement) trigger 
wildling migration. Wildlings migrate from the Frostfangs to 
the clan areas where they prepare themselves in camps. Later, 
the wildlings follow a trail from the camps to a clearing at the 
base of the Wall. When there are more wildlings in a clearing 
than guards on the wall section defending against that clearing, 
the wildlings breach the Wall to enter the Gift. If the camps in 
a clan area get too crowded, the wildlings rush the Wall.
In the image of the game board below, we identify all of the 
areas that are crucial to the movement of the wildlings. Black 
arrows indicate specific areas. Blue arrows indicate the general 
flow of wildling movement.
 Brotherhood of the Watch Rules
Constructing the Board
For your first game of Brotherhood of the Watch, we suggest 
that you use the “Standard Set-up for Brotherhood of the Watch” 
depicted on the back of this rule book.
First, assemble the frame. Second, create the Gift by placing 
the terrain hexes into the frame—again as shown. Use all 21 
terrain hexes in a 4-player game. Use 16 hexes in a 3-player 
game. Third, place the number tokens on top of the designated 
terrain hexes as shown.
Note: It can be a lot of fun (and challenging) to play with a 
variable game board (with the terrain hexes arranged randomly). 
You can change the board each game. This allows you to explore 
new strategies. But always remember that, while you randomize 
the terrain hexes, you do not randomize the number tokens. If you 
want to use the variable set up, you can find the guidelines in the 
Rules Reference under Set-Up, Variable 󲀂. Also look for useful 
tips under Set-Up Phase 󲀂.
The Frostfangs
4 Clearings
3 Clan Areas
6 Trails 
numbered 1-8
Wall 
Breach
Track
Tormund's 
Camp
The Wall 
made of 
4 Wall Sections
The 
Gift
5 Camps 
per Clan Area
5 Guard Spaces 
per Wall Section

Set-Up
If you are experienced players, use the variable set-up guidelines 
(see Reference Rules under Set-Up, Variable 󲀂 and Set-Up 
Phase 󲀂).
General Set-Up
Follow the base game set-up instructions on page 2, with the 
following additions:
•	 Place the wildling die beside the 
production dice.
•	 Place the 4 wall sections on the board as shown in the 
illustration on page 5.
•	 Shuffle all of the development cards to form 
the stack.
•	 Place the Longest Road & Largest Patrol cards 
1 VP side up.
•	 Place your build cost card face up 
(wildling tokens 󲀂 depicted).
•	 Place the breach marker on the “0” space of the wall 
breach track.
•	 Place the 8 VP tokens beside the board.
•	 Each player rolls the production dice, 
highest roll goes first.
Set-Up the Wildlings
•	 Place the wildling figures on the Frostfangs 󲀂 area 
of the board. Place all of the wildling tokens 󲀂 face down 
next to the board and mix them up so that 
nobody knows which is which.
•	 Place 1 wildling token face down on each 
settlement space on your build cost card. Then 
place 1 of your settlements on top of each of these wildling 
tokens.
•	 Place 2 wildling tokens and 1 keep on each keep space on 
your build cost card.
•	 Leave any remaining tokens face down beside the board to 
form a wildling token pool.
Prepare the Hero Cards
Place all of the hero cards 󲀂 next to the board, 
“A-side” up, to form a display. Each player takes 
1 Hero Card as follows:
•	 In a 4-player game: Player 1 takes 
“A4” Yarwick, player 2 takes “A3” Tarley, player 3 takes 
“A2” Marsh, and player 4 takes “A1” Mormont.
•	 In a 3-player game: Player 1 takes “A3” Tarley, player 2 takes 
“A2” Marsh, and player 3 takes “A1” Mormont.
Set-up, Brotherhood of the Watch
Set-up is the same as in the base game, with the following 
additions:
•	 Take 7 guard pieces in your player color.
•	 The Brotherhood of the Watch set-up has 3 rounds 
instead of 2. Rounds 1 and 2 are just like in the base game 
(place 1 settlement & 1 road). In round 3, place 1 guard on 
the wall (starting with player 1 and continuing clockwise).
Turn Overview
A turn in Brotherhood of the Watch is the same as in the base 
game, except that you roll 3 dice. You must now roll the 
12-sided wildling die in addition to the production dice. The 
result of the wildling die determines which, if any, of the 
wildlings advance.
•	 Step 1– Roll the 3 dice. First resolve the two 6-sided 
production 󲀂 dice (the result applies to all players). Next 
resolve any wildling advance 󲀂 indicated by the 12-sided 
wildling die.
•	 Step 2– You may trade 󲀂 resource cards with other players 
and/or trade with the supply 󲀂.
•	 Step 3– You may build 󲀂 roads 󲀂, settlements 󲀂, and/or 
keeps 󲀂, recruit guards 󲀂, and/or buy development cards 
󲀂.
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player to your left, who 
then continues the game with step 1.
The Turn in Detail
Begin your turn by rolling all 3 dice. The sum of the 
2 production dice determines which terrain hex(es) produce(s) 
resources. The result of the wildling die determines which 
wildling(s) advance(s) 󲀂 (if any).
1. Roll the 3 dice
Handle resource production the same way as in the base 
game.
Note: A terrain hex blocked by a wildling does not produce.
Wildling Advance 󲀂
A trail 󲀂 is a numbered connection between a camp󲀂 and an 
adjacent clearing 󲀂. The wildling die roll result (i.e., 1 to 12) 
can match a number on one of the trails. If there is a wildling 
in the camp connected to this trail number, that wildling 
advances down the trail to the clearing.
Example: The cave people clan area has 2 wildlings in it. This 
area is connected to two trails (the “4” trail and the “5” trail). You 
roll a “4” on the wildling die. So you must advance the wildling 
in the camp adjacent to the “4” trail to the clearing. There is no 
guard on the wall section defending 
that clearing. So there is a wall breach 
󲀂. If you rolled a “5”, the wildling 
would have advanced down the “5” 
trail to the clearing that is defended 
by a guard. No breach would occur in 
that case.
If there are multiple wildlings in 
that clan area, the wildling in the 
camp closest to the numbered trails 
advances. The other wildlings in that 
clan area each move 1 camp closer to 
the clearings to fill unoccupied camps.
After Use: Flip this hero card over or exchange it.
Bowen marsh
Lord Steward
You exchange a single 
resource card with the 
supply at a 1:1 rate.
One-time Trade at 1:1
A 2

Wildlings
There are 3 types of wildlings: climbers, giants, and regular 
wildlings 󲀂. When a wildling advances to a clearing:
•	 A climber 󲀂 immediately jumps over the Wall and 
blocks the first hex not occupied by a wildling 
directly south of the wall section. This does not 
count as a wall breach 󲀂 (see below).
•	 A giant 󲀂 removes itself and removes the 
guard 󲀂 on the “1” space of the wall section defending that 
clearing. Take back your guard, and return the giant to the 
Frostfangs. If any guards remain on that 
wall section, they each move to the next 
lowest number on that wall section. If a 
giant advances to a clearing and there is 
no guard on that wall section, the giant 
breaches the wall (see below).
•	 A regular wildling 󲀂 stays in the clearing 
if the number of regular wildlings in the 
clearing is equal to or less than the number 
of guards on the wall section defending that 
clearing. If there are more wildlings than 
guards, the wildlings breach the wall.
Wall Breaches
When a wall breach 󲀂 occurs, if there is a guard in the 1 space 
of that wall section, remove it and return it to its owner. Any 
other guards on that wall section (from lowest to highest) fill in 
the lowest-numbered, unoccupied space(s).
Then, one at a time, each of the wildlings on that clearing 
jumps over the Wall. Each one blocks the first hex not occupied 
by a wildling directly south of the wall (as indicated by the red 
arrows). A blocked terrain hex does not produce. 
Example: There are 
2 regular wildlings in the “5, 6” clearing and 2 guards on the wall 
section defending that clearing. 
You roll a “5” on the wildling 
die. There is a regular wildling 
at the camp beside the “5” trail. 
That wildling advances down 
the trail into the “5/6” clearing. 
There are now 3 wildlings in 
the clearing and only 2 guards 
defending. The wildlings breach 
the wall. Return the guard 
in the “1” space on the wall 
to its owner. Then move the 3 
wildlings over the wall to block 
the first 3 hexes south. Finally, 
move the remaining guard on 
the wall from the “2” space to the “1” space.
After a wall breach, move the breach marker 1 space 
down on the breach track. 3 wall breaches end the 
game (see Ending the Game 󲀂).
Wildling Rush!
When a fifth wildling moves 
to a clan area 󲀂 that already 
has 4 wildlings, a wildling rush 
occurs. The wildlings in the 
two camps 󲀂 closest to the 
trails immediately advance. The 
wildling in the lowest camp 
uses the lower numbered trail 
(red arrow in example) and the 
wildling in the next closest camp uses the higher numbered 
trail (blue arrow).
Then, the 3 remaining wildlings fill in the camps 󲀂. Move 
the wildling in the 3rd camp to the 1st camp, move the one in 
the 4th camp to the 2nd camp, and move the one in the 5th 
camp to the 3rd camp (black arrows).
2. Trade with The Supply 󲀂 (3:1)
Trading is handled the same as in the base game, with the 
following exception: the standard rate for a trade with the 
supply 󲀂 is 3:1 (instead of 4:1).
4. Build 󲀂
Building is the same as in the base game, with the following 
additions:
•	 You may build guards.
•	 When you build a settlement, build a keep, or take a special 
VP card, you reveal wildling tokens. The corresponding 
wildling(s) must migrate to their clan area.
•	 Longest Road and Largest Patrol are only worth 1 VP each.
Create New Wildlings with 
Wildling Tokens 󲀂
1 wildling token starts under each of the settlements 
on your build cost card. 2 start under each keep. 
When you build a settlement, you must reveal the token and 
migrate a wildling from the Frostfangs to a clan area. The 
wildling token specifies the type of wildling that migrates (in 
blue) and which clan area it migrates to (in red). Follow this 
process twice for each keep. When you build a keep, place a 
wildling token from the pool under the settlement you return 
to your build cost card.
Each time you take the Longest Road 󲀂 or Largest Patrol 󲀂 
special card, you must draw a random wildling token from the 
pool beside the game board to “migrate” a wildling.
Place any used wildling token(s) face up beside the game 
board. If the face-down wildling token pool is ever depleted, 
re-mix the face-up tokens to form a new pool.
Wildling 
Types
Clan 
Areas
Climber
Giant
Regular
Hornfoot Clan
Ice River Clan
Cave People Clan

Building a Guard 󲀂 
	
Requires: 1 Brick, 1 Wool, & 1 Lumber
After you pay for a guard, place it onto the lowest-numbered, 
unoccupied space on a wall section of your choice.
As long as you have 3 guards anywhere on the Wall, you 
receive 1 VP token. As long as you have 5+ guards anywhere on 
the Wall, you receive 1 additional VP token (2 VPs total). If the 
number of your guards on the wall falls below either threshold, 
return the VP token to the supply.
Hero Cards 󲀂
Your hero card 󲀂 gives you a specific 
advantage as described on the card. The first 
time you use your hero's advantage, you have 
2 choices: 
•	 Return it to the hero card display. Then 
take 1 other hero card of your choice from 
the display. Place this new hero “A-side” up 
in front of you.
•	 Turn your hero card over to its “B-side.” This allows you to 
use the hero's ability again on a subsequent turn. After you 
use your hero card a second time, you must return it to the 
hero card display (“A-side” up). Then take 1 other hero card 
of your choice from the display.
There is a summary of all of the heroes on the back cover of 
the Rules Reference.
Important: You are not allowed to use a hero card during the 
same turn you take it. You cannot trade, give away, or steal hero 
cards.
Ending the Game 󲀂
Brotherhood of the Watch can end in 3 ways: 
1. 	 If the Wall has been breached 3 times, the game ends 
immediately. If you have the most guards on the wall at 
this point, you win. If tied, see below.
2. 	 If the number of wildlings in the Gift exceeds 7 (8 or 
more) the game ends immediately. If you have the most 
guards on the wall at this point, you win. If tied, see below.
3. If you have 10 VPs at the END of your turn, you win. 
Important: Unlike most Catan games, you only win at the 
END of your turn. You must still advance the wildlings as usual 
throughout your entire turn. This could cause the game to end 
immediately (see 1 or 2 above).
 
Resolving Ties for Most Guards
•	 The tied player with the most VPs wins.
•	 If still tied, the tied player with the oldest guard on the wall 
wins (guard on the lowest number in any wall section).
•	 If still tied, the player with the guard in the most western 
location wins (closest to the Frostfangs).
4 player Set-up
3 player Set-up
Standard Set-up for Brotherhood of the Watch
After Use: Flip this hero card over or exchange it.
Bowen marsh
Lord Steward
You exchange a single 
resource card with the 
supply at a 1:1 rate.
One-time Trade at 1:1
A 2