Rules Reference
TM

The Only Game 
That Matters
Too many strange faces, Tyrion thought, too many 
new players. The game changed while I lay rotting in 
my bed, and no one will tell me the rules.
—George R.R. Martin, A Song of Ice and Fire
This document is intended as the definitive source for 
rules information, but does not teach players how to 
play the game. Players should first read the Learn to 
Play book in its entirety and use this Rules Reference 
as needed while playing the game.
The majority of this guide consists of the glossary, 
which provides an alphabetical listing of terms and 
situations a player might encounter during a game. 
This section should be the first destination for players 
who have a rules question.
The latter part of this guide contains two appendices. 
The first appendix provides detailed timing diagrams 
that illustrate the structure of an entire game round, as 
well as a detailed explanation on how to handle each 
game step presented in those diagrams. The second 
provides a detailed anatomy of each cardtype.
The Golden Rules
If the text of this Rules Reference directly contradicts 
the text of the Learn to Play book, the text of the 
Rules Reference takes precedence.
If the text of a card directly contradicts the text of 
either the Rules Reference or the Learn to Play book, 
the text of the card takes precedence.
Glossary
The following is an alphabetical list of entries for game 
rules, terms, and situations that may occur during play.
Abilities
An ability is the special game text that a card contributes 
to the game. Card abilities fall into one of the following 
types: actions, constant abilities, interrupts, keywords, 
reactions, or when revealed abilities.
x The initiation of action, interrupt, and reaction 
abilities is optional. The word “may” also incorporates 
a player option into the resolution of an ability. The 
player who controls the card on which an optional 
ability exists determines whether or not he or she 
wishes to use that ability at the appropriate time.
x The application or initiation of the following types 
of abilities is mandatory: constant abilities, when 
revealed abilities, forced interrupt abilities, and 
forced reaction abilities. 
x The initiation of any keyword which uses the word 
“may” in its keyword description is optional. The 
application of all other keywords is mandatory.
x Card abilities only interact with, and can only 
target, cards that are in play, unless the ability 
text specifically refers to an out of play area or 
element. Card abilities on characters, locations, and 
attachments can only be initiated or affect the game 
from an in play area unless they specifically refer 
to being used from an out of play area, or require 
that the card be out of play for the ability to resolve. 
Event cards and agenda cards implicitly interact with 
the game from an out of play area, as established by 
the rules of their cardtypes. 
x A card ability can only be initiated if its effect 
has the potential to change the game state. This 
potential is assessed without taking into account 
the consequences of the cost payment or any other 
ability interactions.
x A card ability can only be initiated if its cost (after 
modifiers) has the potential to be paid in full.
Related: Actions, Effects, Constant Abilities, Costs, 
Delayed Effects, Forced Interrupts/Forced Reactions, 
In Play and Out of Play, Interrupts, Keywords, Lasting 
Effects, Reactions, Triggered Abilities, When Revealed
Halt!
Halt!

Actions
An action is a triggered ability that contains the 
boldface “Action:” precursor. These abilities can only 
be initiated by a player during an action window. For 
details on when action windows occur during each 
round, see the timing charts in Appendix I. 
Some Action abilities have a phase name as a qualifier 
to the word “Action.” Such abilities are still considered 
Action abilities, with the restriction that they can only be 
initiated during an action window in the specified phase.
An action must be resolved completely before the next 
action can be initiated.
Active Player
In some phases, the game creates an active player, who 
is granted permission to perform a specified task.
x During the marshaling phase, the active player 
collects income and is also permitted to marshal 
character, location, attachment, and duplicate cards 
from his or her hand.
x During the challenges phase, the active player is 
permitted to initiate challenges.
Related: Marshaling Phase, Challenges Phase
Against
During a challenge, the attacking player and the 
defending player are considered to be taking part in the 
challenge “against” each other.
Agenda Cards
Agenda cards are placed alongside a player’s faction 
card, and provide specialized abilities and limitations 
for his or her deck. A player may use a single agenda 
card in conjunction with his or her faction card when 
assembling a deck. The agenda card starts the game 
next to a player’s faction card and is revealed along with 
the faction card during setup.
x Agenda cards are not considered “in play.” Their text 
affects the game state from the out of play area while 
they are active beside a player’s faction card.
x Cards with the printed agenda cardtype cannot be 
removed from the game by other card abilities.
For agenda card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: In Play and Out of Play, Deckbuilding
Ambush (X)
Ambush is a keyword ability. A player may, as a player 
action during the challenges phase, pay gold equal to 
the (X) value of a card with ambush to put that card 
into play from his or her hand. A card that enters play 
using ambush is not considered to have been marshaled.
x If a card has multiple instances of ambush, each with 
a different (X) value, the player controlling the card 
may choose which instance of ambush is used to put 
the card into play.
Related: Keywords, Put into Play
Attachment Cards
Attachment cards represent weapons, armor, items, 
skills, conditions, and titles. These cards enter play 
standing and attached to another card or game element, 
and remain in play unless removed by an ability, or 
unless the attached card leaves play. An attachment 
cannot enter play if there is no eligible card or game 
element to which it can attach.
x An attachment can only attach to a character, unless 
otherwise specified by the attachment's text.
x There is no limit on the number of attachments that 
may be attached to a card or game element.
x If a card to which an attachment is attached leaves 
play, return the attachment to its owner’s hand. 
This occurs simultaneously with the attached card 
leaving play.
x If a situation arises in which an attachment is not 
legally attached, discard the attachment.
x An attachment a player controls remains under his 
or her control even if the card or game element to 
which it is attached is under an opponent’s control.
x An attachment card stands and kneels independently 
of the card to which it is attached.
For attachment card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: Ownership and Control
Attacker, Attacking Character, 
Attacking Player
The term “attacking character” refers to a character that 
is participating in a challenge on the side of the player 
who initiated the challenge. The term “attacker” is also 
used as shorthand for “attacking character.”

The term “attacking player” refers to the player that 
initiated the challenge that is currently resolving.
Related: Challenges Phase, Defender, Participating
Base Value
The value of a quantity before any modifiers are applied. 
For most quantities, it is also the printed value.
Related: Printed, Modifiers
Blank
If a card’s printed text box is considered “blank” by an 
ability, that text box is treated as if it did not have any 
of its printed content. Text and/or icons gained from 
another source are not blanked.
x A card’s text box includes: traits, keywords, card 
text and abilities, and non-challenge icons (such as 
gold, initiative, and reserve modifiers).
Related: Printed
Cancel
Some card abilities (usually interrupt abilities) can 
“cancel” other card or game effects. Cancel abilities 
interrupt the initiation of an effect, and prevent the 
effect from initiating. Because of this, cancel abilities 
have timing priority over all other interrupts to the 
effect that is attempting to initiate.
x When an effect is canceled, that effect is no 
longer imminent, and further interrupts 
(including cancels) cannot be initiated in reference 
to the canceled effect. 
x When the effects of an ability are canceled, the 
ability is still considered to have been used, and any 
costs have still been paid.
x If the effects of an event card are canceled, the card 
is still considered to have been played, and it is still 
placed in its owner’s discard pile.
Related: Costs, Initiating Abilities, Interrupts, Limits 
and Maxima, Triggering Condition
Cannot
The word “cannot” is absolute, and cannot be 
countermanded by other abilities.
Cardtypes
The game’s cardtypes are presented in Appendix II, 
with detailed card anatomies, on page 30. 
x If an ability causes a card to change its cardtype 
(such as an event card that changes into an 
attachment), it loses all other cardtypes it might 
possess and functions as would any card of the 
new cardtype.
Challenge Icons
These icons appear on most character cards and indicate 
which challenge types the character may be declared for 
as an attacker or defender. The challenge icons are:
Challenge
Graphic Icon
In Text
Military
󲀈
Intrigue
󲀊
󲀉
Challenges Phase
See Appendix I, “4. Challenges phase” on page 27.
Character Cards
Character cards represent the lords, ladies, knights, 
armies, mercenaries, creatures, and other personalities 
and groups one might encounter in the A Song of Ice 
and Fire setting. These cards enter play in the front 
row of a player’s play area and remain in play unless 
removed by an ability or game effect.
For character card anatomy, see Appendix II
Choose
The word “choose” indicates that one or more targets 
must be chosen in order to resolve an ability.
Related: Target
Claim or Claim Value
Claim represents the consequences a player must face 
upon losing a challenge as the defending player. 
The claim value on a player’s revealed plot card (which 
incorporates all relevant claim modifiers) determines 
the potency of each challenge that player initiates if he 
or she wins the challenge. 
Claim value determines: how many different 
characters the losing opponent must kill (for a 󲀈 
challenge), how many cards are discarded from the 
losing opponent’s hand (for an 󲀊 challenge), or how 
much power is taken from the losing opponent’s 
faction card (for a 󲀉 challenge).

Related: Intrigue Claim, Military Claim, 
Power Claim
Constant Abilities
A constant ability is any non-keyword ability whose text 
contains no boldface precursor defining its ability type. 
A constant ability becomes active as soon as its card 
enters play and remains active while that card is in play.
x Some constant abilities continuously seek a specific 
condition (denoted by words such as “during,” “if,” 
or “while”). The effects of such abilities are active 
any time the specified condition is met.
x If multiple instances of the same constant ability are 
in play, each instance affects the game state.
Control
See “Ownership and Control” on page 14.
Copy (of a card)
A copy of a card is defined by title: any other card that 
shares the same title is considered a copy, regardless of 
cardtype, text, artwork, or any other characteristic of 
the card(s).
Related: Deckbuilding, Ownership and Control, 
Unique Cards, Self-Referential Text
Costs
A card’s gold cost is the numerical value that must be 
paid to marshal or play the card. 
Some card abilities are presented in a “do X to do 
Y” construct. In such a construct, the “do X” aspect 
(preceding the word “to”) is a cost, and the “do Y” aspect 
(following the word “to”) is an effect.
x An opponent’s game elements may not be used to 
pay a cost. 
x If a cost requires a game element that is not in 
play, the player paying the cost may only use game 
elements that are in his or her out of play areas and/
or gold pool to pay the cost.
x If multiple costs for a single card or ability require 
payment, those costs must be paid simultaneously.
x If any part of a cost payment is prevented, once 
all costs that can be paid are paid, the process of 
initiating the ability or marshaling/playing the card 
immediately ends without further resolution. (The 
card remains unplayed in its owner's hand.)
x An ability cannot initiate (and therefore its costs 
cannot be paid) if the resolution of its effect will not 
change the game state.
Related: In Play and Out of Play, Ownership 
and Control
Dead Pile
The dead pile is an out of play area. It is distinct from 
the discard pile.
x Any time a character in play is “killed,” that 
character is placed faceup on top of its owner’s 
dead pile.
x A player cannot marshal, play, put into play, or take 
control of a copy of any unique (󲀋) card that is in 
his or her dead pile.
x A single instance of a unique card in a player’s dead 
pile does not prevent an effect that would cause the 
card to enter play directly from the dead pile. This is 
because such an effect removes the only instance of 
the card from the dead pile.
x Each player’s dead pile is open information, and may 
be looked at by any player at any time.
x The order of the cards in a dead pile may not be 
altered unless a player is instructed to do so by a 
card ability.
x If multiple characters are killed simultaneously, the 
owner of the cards may physically place them into 
his or her dead pile one at a time, in any order.
Related: Discard Pile, Leaves Play, Unique Cards
Deck, Draw Deck
When the word “deck” appears by itself in rules or in 
card text, it refers to the deck that contains a player’s 
attachment, character, event, and location cards. This is 
also known as the “draw deck.”
Any rule or ability that refers to a plot deck uses the 
term “plot deck.”
Related: Plot Deck
Deckbuilding
To build a custom deck for sanctioned tournament play:
x A player must choose exactly 1 faction card.
x A player may choose 1 agenda card, or may choose 
to not use an agenda.

x A player’s plot deck must contain exactly 7 
cards. Up to one of the chosen plot cards may be 
duplicated once (by title) within the plot deck. No 
more than 1 copy of each of the other plot cards 
may be in the plot deck.
x A player’s draw deck must contain a minimum of 
60 cards.
x There is no upper limit on a player’s draw deck size.
x A player’s draw deck can only contain up to 3 
copies (by title) of any given card.
x Unless instructed otherwise by a card ability, 
each card in a player’s deck and plot deck must be 
neutral or its affiliation must match the affiliation 
of that player’s faction card.
Related: Copy, Deck, Deck Limits, Faction, Plot Deck
Deck Limits, Deck Limit: X
Up to 3 copies of most cards (by title) may be included 
in a player’s deck. If a card has the text “Deck Limit: 
X” no more than X copies of that card may be included 
in a player’s deck.
x If X is 2 or lower, this phrase acts as a 
deckbuilding restriction.
x If X is 4 or higher, this phrase acts as a permission 
that enables a player to include more than the 
standard 3 copies.
Related: Plot Deck Limit: X
Defender, Defending Character, 
Defending Player
The term “defending character” refers to a character 
that is participating in a challenge on the side of the 
defending player. The term “defender” may also be 
used as shorthand for “defending character.”
The term “defending player” refers to the opponent of 
the attacking player against whom (from the attacking 
player's perspective) the challenge is resolving.
Related: Attacker, Challenges Phase, Participating
Delayed Effects
Some abilities contain delayed effects. Such abilities 
specify a future timing point, or indicate a future 
condition that may arise, and dictate an effect that is to 
happen at that time.
x Delayed effects resolve automatically and 
immediately after their timing point/future 
condition occurs, before reactions to that moment 
may be used.
x When a delayed effect resolves, it is not treated as a 
new triggered ability, even if the delayed effect was 
originally created by a triggered ability.
x Related: Abilities, Effects, Triggered Abilities
Discard Pile
The discard pile is an out of play area. It is distinct 
from the dead pile.
x Any time a card is “discarded” (from play or from 
an out of play area such as a hand or deck), it is 
placed faceup on top of its owner’s discard pile.
x Each player’s discard pile is open information, and 
may be looked at by any player at any time.
x The order of the cards in a discard pile may not be 
altered unless a player is instructed to do so by a 
card ability.
x If multiple cards are discarded simultaneously, the 
owner of the cards may physically place them into 
his or her discard pile one at a time, in any order.
Related: Dead Pile, Leaves Play, Sacrifice
Dominance Phase
See Appendix I, “5. Dominance phase” on page 29.
Drawing Cards
When a player is instructed to draw one or more 
cards, those cards are drawn from the top of his or her 
draw deck.
x When a player draws 2 or more cards as the result 
of a single ability or game step, those cards are all 
drawn simultaneously.
x Drawn cards are added to a player’s hand.
x There is no limit to the number of cards a player 
may draw each round.
Related: Reserve Value
Draw Phase
See Appendix I, “2. Draw phase” on page 27.

Duplicates
A player may use additional copies, by title, of any 
unique card (indicated by a “󲀋” symbol in its title) he 
or she owns and controls in play as duplicates. When 
a card enters play as a duplicate, it is placed faceup, 
overlapped by (i.e. partially visible beneath) the copy of 
the card that was already in play.
A duplicate grants its controller the following triggered 
game ability: “Interrupt: When the overlapping unique 
card would leave play, discard this duplicate to save that 
card. (Cannot be canceled.)”
x There is no cost to marshal a card as a duplicate.
x Duplicates are not considered attachments. 
Duplicates are not affected by and do not interact 
with text that refers to attachments.
x Duplicates have no text, titles, characteristics, type, 
or traits. A duplicate is only considered a blank 
“duplicate card” while it is in play.
x It is possible to have more than one duplicate on a 
single card.
x A different version of a unique card may be used as 
a duplicate on the card. The version of the card that 
was first in play remains as the active version once 
the duplicate is attached. A player may not switch a 
card with its duplicate.
x Marshaling a duplicate is not considered marshaling 
a card of the duplicate’s printed type. It is only 
considered “marshaling a duplicate card.”
Related: Ownership and Control, Save, Unique Cards
Effects
A card effect is any effect that arises from the resolution 
of ability text printed on, or gained by, 
a card. A framework effect is any effect that arises from 
the resolution of a framework event.
x Card effects might be preceded by costs, triggering 
conditions, play restrictions, and/or play permissions; 
such elements are not considered effects.
x Once initiated, players must resolve as much of each 
aspect of the effect as they are able, unless the effect 
uses the word “may.”
x When a non-targeting effect attempts to engage 
a number of entities (such as “draw 3 cards” or 
“search the top 10 cards of your deck”) that exceeds 
the number of entities that currently exist in the 
specified game area, the effect engages as many 
entities as possible.
x The expiration of a lasting effect (or the cessation of 
a constant ability) is not considered to be generating 
a game state change by a card effect.
Related: Abilities, Costs, Delayed Effects, Lasting 
Effects, May, Initiating Abilities, Play Restrictions and 
Permissions, Triggering Condition
Enters Play
The phrase “enters play” refers to any time a card makes 
a transition from an out of play area into a play area. 
Marshaling a card and putting a card into play by using 
a card ability are two means by which a card may 
enter play.
Related: In Play and Out of Play, Marshal, Put Into Play
Event Cards
Event cards represent tactical actions, schemes, twists 
of fate, and other unexpected developments that might 
occur during the game.
x An event card’s ability type, triggering condition (if 
any), and play permissions/restrictions (if any) define 
when and how the card can be played.
x When a player plays an event card, its costs are 
paid, its effects are resolved (or canceled), and the 
card is placed in its owner's discard pile prior to 
opening the reaction window which follows the 
ability's resolution.
x Event card effects engage the game state at the 
time they resolve. If an event card creates a lasting 
effect on a set of cards, only cards that are in play at 
the time the event card is played are eligible to be 
affected. Cards that enter play after the resolution of 
the event are not affected by its lasting effect.
x If the effects of an event card are canceled, the card 
is still considered to have been played, and its costs 
remain paid. Only the effects have been canceled.
x Unless the ability that puts it into play also changes 
its cardtype to a cardtype that is permitted in play, 
an event card cannot enter play.
For event card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: Cancel, Costs, Delayed Effects, Lasting 
Effects, Play Restrictions and Permissions, 
Triggering Condition

Facedown Cards
Some abilities put cards into play facedown. A facedown 
card has no inherent attributes other than “facedown 
card,” but it may be granted attributes by the card ability 
that put it into play.
x A player may look at the identity of any facedown 
card that is in play and under his or her control.
Faction, Faction Cards
There are 8 factions in the game, shown in the 
chart below.
The faction card signals which faction a player has 
chosen as the primary faction for his or her deck. An 
in-faction card bears the loyal or non-loyal faction 
symbol that matches the affiliation indicated by his or 
her faction card. 
For faction card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: Deckbuilding, For Your Faction, Loyal
First Player, First Player Token
A first player is chosen at random during setup. A new 
first player is chosen each plot phase by the player who 
wins initiative. The chosen player remains the first 
player until a new first player is chosen. The first player 
token is used to indicate which player is the first player.
x The first player becomes the active player first 
during the marshaling and challenges phases. 
x During all framework event and action/reaction/
interrupt windows the first player has the first 
opportunity to initiate action, interrupt, or reaction 
abilities at each appropriate game moment.
x For any question as to who should perform an act 
or make a decision first, in the absence of any other 
direction by card or rules text, the first player does 
so first, and other players follow in player order.
x If the first player is eliminated from a game, the 
player to his or her left becomes the first player.
Related: Active Player, Setup, Initiative, 
Plot Phase, Priority of Simultaneous Resolution
Forced Interrupts/Forced Reactions
While most triggered abilities are optional, some 
interrupt and reaction abilities are preceded by 
the word “Forced.” Such abilities must be resolved 
immediately whenever the triggering condition 
specified in the ability text occurs. 
x For any given triggering condition, forced 
interrupts take priority and initiate before non-
forced interrupts, and forced reactions take priority 
and initiate before non-forced reactions.
x If two or more forced abilities would initiate at the 
same moment, the first player determines the order 
in which the abilities initiate, regardless of who 
controls the cards bearing those abilities.
x Each forced ability must resolve completely before 
the next forced ability to the same triggering 
condition may initiate.
Related: Interrupts, Reactions
For Your Faction
The phrase “for your faction” is used to instruct a 
player to place the power just gained on his or her 
faction card.
Faction
Loyal
Non-Loyal
In Text
Stark
󲀆
Lannister
󲀅
Baratheon
󲀁
Greyjoy
󲀇
Tyrell
󲀃
Martell
󲀀
Targaryen
󲀄
The Night’s 
Watch
󲀂

Framework Effects and Framework Events
A framework event is a mandatory occurrence 
dictated by the structure of the game. A framework 
effect is any effect that arises from the resolution of 
a framework event.
Related: Appendix I: Timing and Gameplay, Effects
Gains
The word “gains” is used in multiple contexts.
x If a player gains gold, the player takes the specified 
amount of gold from the treasury and adds it to his 
or her gold pool.
x If a player gains power for a card under his or her 
control, the player takes the specified amount of 
power from the treasury and adds it to the card.
x If a card gains a characteristic (such as an icon, a 
Trait, a keyword, or ability text), the card functions 
as if it possesses the gained characteristic. Gained 
characteristics are not considered to be printed on 
the card.
Related: Gold, Power, Printed
Gold
Gold is the game’s currency and 
is used to pay for cards and card 
abilities. The amount of gold a 
player has available at any given 
time is represented (as open 
information) by gold tokens 
in his or her gold pool.
Gold begins the game in the treasury. When a player 
gains gold, that player takes an equivalent amount of 
gold from the treasury and adds it to his or her gold 
pool. When gold is spent it is returned to the treasury 
from a player's gold pool.
Related: Marshaling Phase, Taxation Phase
Gold Modifier
Immune 
If a card is immune to a specified set of effects (for 
example, “immune to event card effects,” or “immune 
to 󲀃 card effects”), it cannot be targeted or affected 
by effects that belong to that set. Only the card itself 
is protected, and peripheral entities associated with an 
Gold Tokens
immune card (such as attachments, tokens, abilities 
originating from an immune card, or duplicates) are not 
themselves immune.
If a card gains immunity to an effect, pre-existing 
lasting effects that have been applied to the card are 
not removed.
Immunity only protects a card from effects. It does not 
prevent a card from being used to pay costs.
Related: Costs, Lasting Effects
In Play and Out of Play
The cards (generally characters, locations, attachments, 
duplicates, and the faction card) that a player controls in 
the play area, the title card a player currently bears in a 
melee game, as well as a player’s revealed plot card, are 
considered “in play.”
“Out of play” refers to all other cards and areas involved 
in the game environment, including: cards in a player’s 
hand, deck, discard pile, dead pile, plot deck, used pile, 
agendas, and any cards that have been removed from 
the game.
x A card enters play when it transitions from an out of 
play origin to a play area.
x A card leaves play when it transitions from a play 
area to an out of play destination.
x A player’s faction card cannot leave play.
x Outside of the process by which a player reveals a 
new plot his or her previously revealed plot card 
enters the used pile, a player's plot card cannot 
leave play.
Related: Abilities, Dead Pile, Deck, Discard Pile, 
Plot Card
Income
When a player becomes the active player during the 
marshaling phase, that player collects income by 
gaining an amount of gold from the treasury equal 
to the gold value on his or her revealed plot card 
(which incorporates the total value of all relevant 
gold modifiers).
Related: Gold, Gold Modifier, Marshaling Phase

Influence Tokens
Influence tokens are generic tokens 
that can be used to track a variety 
of different game states and statuses. 
They have no inherent rules. 
x Card abilities can create and 
define a number of different token types, such 
as “betrayal tokens,” “poison tokens,” and “stand 
tokens.” When such a token is called for, an 
influence token is used to track its presence in 
the game.
Initiating Abilities/Marshaling Cards
When a player wishes to marshal or play a card, or 
initiate a triggered ability, that player first declares 
his or her intent (and shows the card to be used, if 
necessary). The following steps are then observed, 
in order:
1.	 Check play restrictions: can the card be marshaled 
or played, or the ability initiated, at this time?
2.	 Determine the cost (or costs, if multiple costs 
are required) to marshal/play the card or initiate 
the ability. If it is established that the cost (taking 
modifiers into account) can be paid, proceed with 
the remaining steps of this sequence.
3.	 Apply any modifiers to the cost(s).
4.	 Pay the cost(s).
5.	 Choose target(s), if applicable.
6.	 The card is marshaled/played, or the effects of the 
ability attempt to initiate. An interrupt ability that 
cancels this initiation may be used at this time.
7.	 The effects of the ability (if not canceled in 
step 6) complete their initiation, and resolve.
Interrupts and Reactions may be used throughout 
this process as normal, should their triggering 
conditions occur.
Related: Abilities, Cancel, Costs, Play Restrictions 
and Permissions, Target
Initiative
A player’s initiative is the initiative value on his or her 
revealed plot card (which incorporates the total value 
of all relevant initiative modifiers).
Influence Tokens 
(double-sided)
When new plot cards are revealed for the plot phase, 
the players compare initiative. The player with the 
highest initiative value wins initiative, and chooses 
which player is the “first player” until a new first player 
is chosen.
If there is a tie at that time for initiative, the tied 
player with the lowest power total wins initiative. If 
the lowest power total is also tied, a random method 
should be used to break this tie.
Initiative Modifier
Insight
Insight is a challenge resolution keyword. After 
a player wins a challenge, for each participating 
character with the insight keyword he or she controls, 
that player may draw 1 card.
Instead
See “Replacement Effects” on page 18.
Interrupts
An interrupt is a triggered ability whose text contains 
the boldface “Interrupt:” precursor. An interrupt 
ability interrupts the resolution of its triggering 
condition, sometimes canceling or changing the 
resolution of that condition. Always resolve interrupts 
to a triggering condition before resolving the 
consequences of the triggering condition itself.
Unlike actions, which may be initiated during action 
windows, each interrupt may be initiated once each 
time its specified triggering condition occurs, as 
described in the interrupt’s ability text.
When a triggering condition initiates (but before 
it begins resolving), an interrupt window for that 
triggering condition opens. 
Within the interrupt window, the first player always 
has the first opportunity to initiate an eligible interrupt 
(to this triggering condition), or pass. Opportunities to 
initiate an eligible interrupt, or pass, continue in player 
order until all players consecutively pass, at which 
point the interrupt window closes. Passing does not 
prevent a player from initiating an eligible interrupt 
later in that same interrupt window.

Once an interrupt window closes, further interrupts to 
that specific triggering condition cannot be initiated. 
The triggering condition now completes its resolution 
(as long as its effects have not been canceled).
x It is possible for multiple interrupts to be initiated 
from the same triggering condition. Each interrupt 
must resolve completely before the next interrupt to 
the same triggering condition may initiate.
x If multiple copies of the same interrupt are eligible 
to be initiated, each copy may be initiated once 
against that triggering condition.
Related: Cancel, First Player, Forced Interrupts/Forced 
Reactions, Nested Ability Sequences, Would
Intimidate
Intimidate is a challenge resolution keyword. After 
a player wins a challenge as the attacking player in 
which he or she controls a character with the intimidate 
keyword, that player may choose and kneel a character, 
controlled by the losing opponent, with equal or lower 
STR than the amount of STR by which the challenge 
was won. (The chosen character is not required to be 
participating in the challenge.)
x No more than one instance of intimidate can 
successfully resolve during each challenge.
Intrigue Claim
When a player loses an intrigue (󲀊) challenge as the 
defending player, that player must discard a number of 
random cards from his or her hand equal to the claim 
value on the attacking player’s revealed plot card.
If the player has fewer cards in hand than would 
satisfy claim, as much of the claim as possible must 
be satisfied.
Joust Game
A joust game is a head-to-head game between 
two players.
x Melee title cards, and their associated framework 
steps (1.4 and 7.4, see Appendix I), are not used in a 
joust game.
Related: Melee Game
Keywords
A keyword is a card ability which conveys specific rules 
to its card.
x Sometimes a keyword is followed by reminder text, 
which is presented in italics. Reminder text is a 
shorthand explanation of how a keyword works, but 
it is not rules text and does not replace the rules for 
that keyword in this glossary.
x Cards are considered to have a keyword or to not 
have that keyword. A single card that has and/or is 
gaining the same keyword from multiple sources 
functions as if it has one instance of that keyword. 
(Note: Instances of Ambush (X) with different 
values for X are considered different keywords.)
x The keywords in the game are: ambush (X), insight, 
intimidate, limited, no attachments, pillage, renown, 
stealth, and terminal.
Related: Ambush (X), Insight, Intimidate, Limited, 
No Attachments, Pillage, Renown, Stealth, Terminal
Kill, Killed
Characters can be killed by framework effects and by 
card abilities. When a character is killed, it leaves play 
and is placed faceup on top of its owner’s dead pile.
Related: Dead Pile, Leaves Play, Save
Kneel, Kneeling, Knelt
Cards often kneel in order to attack, defend, or use 
certain card abilities. When a card is knelt, it is 
rotated 90 degrees. A card in this latter state is 
considered kneeling.
x A kneeling card cannot kneel again until it is 
standing (typically by a game step or card ability).
Related: Stand, Standing
Lasting Effects
Some card abilities create effects or conditions that 
affect the game state for a specified duration (such as 
“until the end of the challenge” or “until the end of the 
phase”). Such effects are known as lasting effects.
x A lasting effect persists beyond the resolution of the 
ability that created it, for the duration specified by 
the effect. The effect continues to affect the game 
state for the specified duration regardless of whether 
the card that created the lasting effect is or remains 
in play.

x A lasting effect expires as soon as the timing point 
specified by its duration is reached. This means that 
an “until the end of the round” lasting effect expires 
just before an “at the end of the round” ability 
may initiate.
x Any “until the end of the X” effects that would 
initiate after the end of X (via the resolution of 
an interrupt or reaction ability to something that 
occurred at the end of X) would expire immediately 
without affecting the game state, and therefore fail 
to initiate.
Leaves Play
The phrase “leaves play” refers to any time a card 
makes a transition from an in play state to an out of 
play state.
If a card leaves play, the following consequences occur 
simultaneously with the card leaving play:
x All tokens on the card are returned to the treasury.
x All duplicates on the card are discarded.
x All attachments that are on the card are returned 
to their owners’ hands.
x All lasting effects and/or delayed effects affecting 
the card while it is in play expire for that card.
Limited
Limited is a keyword ability. No more than 1 card 
in total with the limited keyword can be marshaled 
(or played, if the card is an event) by each player each 
round. No more than 1 limited card can be placed by 
each player during setup.
x Limited cards that are “put into play” via card 
effects ignore and are ignored by this restriction.
Related: Keywords, Put into Play
Limits and Maxima
“Limit X per [period]” is a limit that appears on 
cards that remain in play through the resolution of 
an ability’s effect. Each copy of an ability with such 
a limit may be used X times during the designated 
period. If a card leaves play and re-enters play during 
the same period, the card is considered to be bringing 
a new copy of the ability to the game.
“Limit X copies per [card/game element]” is a limit 
that appears on attachment cards, and restricts the 
number of copies of that card (by title) that can be 
attached to each designated card or game element.
“Max X per [period]” is a maximum that appears on 
cards that do not enter or remain in play through the 
resolution of their effect. (An event card, for example.) 
Such a phrase imposes a maximum number of times 
that ability can be initiated from all copies (by title) of 
cards bearing the ability (including itself), during the 
designated period. Initiating an ability on a card counts 
towards the maximum for all copies of that card.
x All limits and maxima are player specific.
x If the effects of a card or ability with a limit or a 
maximum are canceled, it is still counted against 
the limit/maximum.
Related: Deck Limits, Plot Deck Limits
Location Cards
Location cards represent the castles, cities, forests, 
shops, taverns, brothels, streets, and other places one 
might discover in the A Song of Ice and Fire setting. 
These cards enter play in the back row of a player’s play 
area and remain in play unless removed by an ability.
For location card anatomy, see Appendix II
Look
When a player is instructed to “look” at one or more 
cards, that player does not show the cards to his or her 
opponents. A card is not considered to leave its play 
area while it is being looked at. A look instruction ends 
when a card is returned to its prior state of concealment, 
or reaches a new destination.
Loyal, Loyalty
Loyalty is a deckbuilding 
restriction that limits which cards 
can be used out-of-faction. A 
card is loyal to its faction if it has 
a scroll of parchment below its 
shield. A loyal card’s affiliation 
must match the affiliation of a 
deck’s faction card in order to 
be included in the deck. Certain 
card abilities (such as the Banner 
agenda cards) permit players to use non-loyal cards 
out-of-faction in a deck.
Related: Deckbuilding
House Baratheon, 
Loyal
House Baratheon, 
Non-Loyal

Marshal
In the Marshaling phase, the active player can (as 
a player action) marshal a character, location, or 
attachment card (or a duplicate) from his or her hand by 
paying that card’s gold cost and placing the card in his 
or her play area. A player pays a gold cost by returning 
the indicated amount of gold from his or her gold pool 
to the treasury.
x When a card is marshaled, it is considered to have 
entered play.
x Event cards are not marshaled, they are played.
x Card abilities that put a card directly into play are 
not considered to be marshaling the card.
Related: Costs, Duplicates, Enters Play, 
Event Cards, Initiating Abilities/Marshaling Cards, 
Put into Play
Marshaling Phase
See Appendix I, “3. Marshaling phase” on page 27.
Max X (copies) (per period)
See “Limits and Maxima” on page 12.
May
The word “may” indicates that a specified player has 
the option to do that which follows. If no player is 
specified, the option is granted to the controller of the 
card with the ability in question.
Melee Game
A melee game is a game with three or more players.
x Melee games use the title cards and the framework 
steps (1.4 and 7.4, see Appendix I) associated 
with them.
Related: Joust Game, Title Cards
Military Claim
When a player loses a military (󲀈) challenge as the 
defending player, that player must choose a number 
of different characters he or she controls equal to the 
claim value on the attacking player’s revealed plot card, 
and kill those characters. The chosen characters are all 
killed simultaneously.
If the player controls fewer characters than would 
satisfy claim, as much of the claim as possible must 
be satisfied.
x The same character cannot be chosen more than 
once to satisfy claim for a single 󲀈 challenge.
x If a character chosen to be killed for military claim 
is saved, the choice still serves to satisfy the claim.
Related: Challenges Phase, Save
Modifiers
Some abilities may ask players to modify values. 
The game state constantly checks and (if necessary) 
updates the count of any variable quantity that is being 
modified.
Any time a new modifier is applied (or removed), 
the entire quantity is recalculated from the start, 
considering the unmodified base value and all active 
modifiers.
x The calculation of a value should treat all modifiers 
as being applied simultaneously. However, while 
performing the calculation, all additive and 
subtractive modifiers should be calculated before 
doubling and/or halving modifiers are calculated.
x Fractional values are rounded up after all modifiers 
have been applied.
x When a value is “set” to a specific number, the set 
modifier overrides all non-set modifiers (including 
any new non-set modifiers that are added during the 
duration of the set value). If multiple set modifiers 
are in conflict, the most recently applied set modifier 
takes precedence.
x A quantity cannot be reduced so that it functions 
with a value below zero: a card cannot have 
“negative” icons, STR, traits, cost, or keywords. 
Negative modifiers in excess of a value’s current 
quantity can be applied, but, after all active 
modifiers have been applied, any resultant value 
below zero is treated as zero.
Related: Base Value
Move
Some effects allow players to move cards or tokens.
x When an entity moves, it cannot move to its same 
(current) placement. If there is no valid destination 
for a move, the move attempt cannot be made.
Moving Power
Some effects (such as a power challenge claim) allow 
players to move power from one card to another. Power 
that is moved is not considered “gained.”

x Power that is moved to a card under a different 
player’s control counts toward that player’s 
victory condition.
Related: Gains, Power Claim
Mulligan
After a player draws a starting hand during setup (but 
before placing any cards in setup), that player has a 
one-time option to declare a mulligan draw. After 
doing so, the player reshuffles his or her starting hand 
into his or her deck and draws a new starting hand of 7 
cards. The player must keep this second hand.
x Players decide in player order whether or not to 
take a mulligan.
Related: Setup
Negative Quantities
See “Modifiers” on page 13.
Nested Ability Sequences
Each time a triggering condition occurs, the following 
sequence is followed: (1) execute any interrupts to 
that triggering condition, (2) resolve the triggering 
condition, and then (3) execute any reactions to that 
triggering condition.
Within this sequence, if an interrupt or a reaction 
to the original triggering condition generates a new 
triggering condition, the game pauses and starts a new 
sequence: (1) execute interrupts to the new triggering 
condition, (2) resolve the new triggering condition, 
and then (3) execute reactions to the new triggering 
condition. Once this nested sequence is fully 
completed, the game returns to where it left 
off, continuing with the original triggering 
condition’s sequence.
It is possible that a nested sequence generates further 
triggering conditions (and hence more nested 
sequences). There is no limit to the number of nested 
sequences that may occur, but each nested sequence 
must complete before returning to the sequence that 
spawned it. In effect, these sequences are resolved in a 
Last In, First Out (LIFO) manner.
In each interrupt window and each reaction window, 
nested or not, the first player always has the first 
opportunity to initiate an interrupt or reaction 
(respectively).
Related: Interrupts, Reactions 
Neutral
Some cards are not affiliated with any faction; these 
cards are neutral. Any deck may include neutral cards.
x Neutral cards are not considered to be in-faction or 
out-of-faction.
Related: Deckbuilding, Faction
Next Player
See “Player Order” on page 15
No Attachments
No attachments is a keyword ability. A card with this 
keyword cannot have an attachment card attached. 
x If one or more traits precedes the word 
“attachments,” the card cannot have an attachment 
that possesses one of the specified traits, but it can 
have attachments possessing none of those traits.
x If the word “attachments” is followed by the word 
“except” and one or more traits, the card can 
have attachments that possess one or more of the 
specified traits, but it cannot have attachments 
possessing none of those traits.
x If a card has multiple variants of the “no 
attachments” keyword, any variant that would 
prevent a card from having a given attachment 
prevails.
Related: Attachment Cards, Keywords, Trait
Out of Play
See “In Play and Out of Play” on page 9.
Ownership and Control
A card’s owner is the player whose deck held the card 
at the start of the game.
x Cards by default enter play under their owner’s 
control. Some abilities may cause cards to change 
control during a game.
x A player controls the cards located in his or her out 
of play game areas (such as the hand, deck, discard 
pile, and dead pile).
x If a card would enter an out of play area of a player 
who does not own the card, the card is placed in 
its owner's equivalent out of play area instead. (For 
all associated card ability and framework effect 

purposes, the card is considered to have entered that 
opponent's out of play area, and only the physical 
placement of the card is adjusted.)
x If a participating character changes control during 
the resolution of a challenge, it is immediately 
removed from the challenge.
Related: Deck, Leaves Play
Participating
Any character that has been declared as an attacker or as 
a defender for a challenge is considered participating in 
that challenge through the resolution of the challenge. 
x A character is either participating or not 
participating in a challenge.
x If an ability explicitly removes a character from a 
challenge, that character is no longer participating 
in the challenge.
x If a participating character leaves play for any reason, 
it is no longer participating in the challenge.
x Once a character is participating in a challenge, 
losing the challenge icon of that type does not remove 
the character from the challenge.
Related: Attacker, Challenges Phase, Defender
Pass
There are numerous points in the game where a player 
has an option between performing an act (such as taking 
an action, triggering an ability, or executing a game 
step) or passing. Passing in such a situation forfeits the 
player’s right to perform that act at that moment.
x Many game sequences continue until all players 
pass consecutively. Should one player perform 
the function (i.e., not pass) during his or her 
opportunity, opportunities to perform or pass 
continue clockwise in player order until a state of 
consecutive passes by all players is achieved. Passing 
an opportunity does not prevent a player from acting 
during his or her next opportunity in the same 
sequence, as long as a state of consecutive passes by 
all players does not occur.
Pillage
Pillage is a challenge resolution keyword. After a player 
wins a challenge, for each participating character with 
the pillage keyword he or she controls, that player may 
discard 1 card from the top of the losing opponent’s deck.
Play Restrictions and Permissions
Many cards or abilities contain specific instructions 
pertaining to when or how they may or may not be used, 
or to specific conditions that must be true in order to 
use them. In order to use such an ability or play/marshal 
such a card, these play restrictions must be observed. 
A permission is an optional play restriction, which 
allows a player to play/marshal a card or use an ability 
outside the timing or specifications provided by the 
game rules.
Related: Event Cards, Initiating Abilities/ 
Marshaling Cards
Player Order
If the players are instructed to perform a sequence in 
“player order,” the first player performs his or her part 
of the sequence first, followed by the other players in 
clockwise order. The phrase “the next player” is used in 
this context to refer to the next player (clockwise) to act 
in player order.
Plot Card
Plot cards represent the round-by-round strategic 
decisions and plans a player makes throughout the 
course of a game. A player’s plot deck begins the game 
with exactly seven plot cards. Each plot card possesses 
a gold, initiative, claim, and reserve value. Many plot 
cards also possess an ability.
x Each plot card exists in one of three states: in the 
plot deck, revealed, or in the used pile.
x When a player reveals a new plot card, it leaves the 
plot deck and enters the revealed state. Place it on 
top of that player's previously revealed plot card. This 
removes the previously revealed plot card from play, 
and replaces it with the newly revealed plot card. All 
plot cards under a player’s currently revealed plot 
card are considered that player’s used pile.
x A player’s revealed plot card is considered in play 
and interacts with the game state.
x When a player reveals the final card of his or her 
plot deck, after all just revealed plot cards have 
entered play and all necessary “When Revealed” 
abilities have resolved, each plot card in that 
player's used pile is returned to his or her plot deck. 
The just revealed plot card is not yet in the used 
pile, and remains revealed.

For plot card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: In Play and Out of Play, Plot Deck, 
When Revealed
Plot Deck
Each player uses his or her own plot deck. A player’s 
plot deck begins the game with exactly seven cards. 
One of those plot cards may have an additional copy 
(by title) within the plot deck. No more than one copy 
of each of the other plot cards may be included in the 
plot deck. 
Related: Deckbuilding, Plot Card, Plot Deck Limit: X
Plot Deck Limit: X
If a plot card bears the phrase, “Plot Deck Limit: X,” 
no more than X copies (by title) of the plot card may 
be included in a plot deck.
x If X is 1, this phrase acts as a deckbuilding 
restriction. A player cannot include an additional 
copy of this plot card in his or her plot deck.
x If X is 3 or higher, this phrase acts as a 
deckbuilding permission. A player may include up 
to X copies of this plot card in his or her plot deck, 
should this plot card be selected by the player as the 
one card for which additional copies are permitted.
Plot Phase
See Appendix I, “1. Plot phase” on page 26.
Plot Value Modifiers
The following icons modify the values of various 
statistics on their controller’s revealed plot card. Such 
modifications are mandatory.
x All active plot value modifiers under a player’s 
control are cumulative in their effect upon that 
player’s revealed plot card.
x If a card’s printed text box is considered blank, any 
modifiers printed in that text box are not active.
The object of the game is for a player 
to have 15 (or more) power. A player's 
power total is equal to the amount of 
power amassed on cards under his or 
her control, and is tracked using 
power counters.
Related: Winning the Game
Power Claim
When a player loses a power (󲀉) challenge as the 
defending player, that player must remove a number of 
power from his or her faction card equal to the claim 
value on the attacking player’s revealed plot card, and 
move it to the attacking player’s faction card.
If the player controls less power than would satisfy 
claim, as much of the claim as possible must be satisfied.
Printed
The word “printed” refers to the text, characteristic, 
icon, or value that is physically printed on the card.
Related: Blank
Priority of Simultaneous Resolution
If a single effect affects multiple players simultaneously, 
but the players must individually make choices 
to resolve the effect, the first player chooses first, 
followed by the other players in player order. Once all 
necessary choices have been made, the effect resolves 
simultaneously upon all affected entities.
x If the resolution of two or more when revealed 
abilities, delayed effects, or forced abilities would 
resolve at the same time, the first player decides the 
order in which the abilities resolve, regardless of who 
controls the cards bearing the conflicting abilities.
x If two or more constant abilities and/or lasting 
effects cannot be applied simultaneously, the first 
player determines the order in which the constant 
abilities are applied.
Put into Play
Some card abilities may cause a card to be “put into 
play.” Such abilities place the card directly into play 
from an out of play state. 
Counter
Gold 
Reserve 
Initiative 

x The gold cost of the card being “put into play” is 
not paid.
x Unless otherwise instructed by the “put into play” 
effect, cards that enter play in this manner must do 
so in a play area or attachment state that satisfies the 
rules of marshaling the card.
x A card that has been put into play is not considered 
to have been “marshaled.”
x If an additional copy of a unique card a player 
already owns and controls is put into play under his 
or her control, it enters play as a duplicate.
Related: Dead pile, Duplicates, In Play and Out of 
Play, Marshal, Unique Cards
Qualifiers
If card text includes a qualifier followed by multiple 
terms, the qualifier applies to each item in the list, if it 
is applicable. For example, in the phrase “each unique 
character and location,” the word “unique” applies both 
to “character” and to “location.”
Reactions
A reaction is a triggered ability whose text contains 
the boldface “Reaction:” precursor. Always resolve a 
triggering condition before initiating any reactions to 
that triggering condition.
Unlike actions, which are resolved during action 
windows, each reaction may be initiated once each time 
its specified triggering condition occurs, as described in 
the reaction’s ability text.
After a triggering condition resolves, a reaction window 
for that triggering condition opens. 
Within the reaction window, the first player always has 
the first opportunity to initiate an eligible reaction (to 
this triggering condition), or pass. Opportunities to 
initiate an eligible reaction, or pass, continue in player 
order until all players consecutively pass, at which point 
the reaction window closes. Passing does not prevent a 
player from initiating an eligible reaction later in that 
same reaction window.
Once a reaction window closes, further reactions to that 
specific triggering condition cannot be initiated.
x It is possible for multiple reactions to be initiated 
from the same triggering condition. Each reaction 
must resolve completely before the next reaction to 
the same triggering condition may initiate.
x If multiple copies of the same reaction are eligible to 
be initiated, each copy may be initiated once against 
that triggering condition. Each eligible reaction may 
be used once per trigger. (If multiple copies of the 
same reaction are eligible, each copy may be used 
once.)
Related: Interrupts, Nested Ability Sequences
Redirect (Melee game only)
The Crown Regent title card can be used to redirect a 
single challenge each round. This ability is used after 
a challenge is initiated, before any reactions to that 
challenge’s initiation can be triggered.
If a challenge is redirected, the player who is initiating 
the challenge must immediately choose a new opponent 
to resolve the challenge against. The attacking player 
may also choose new stealth targets (controlled by 
the new defending player) if he or she desires. Any 
originally declared stealth targets are not considered to 
have been bypassed by stealth; any new targets are.
The challenge is still considered to have been initiated 
against the original opponent, but it resolves against the 
new opponent.
A redirected challenge may not be resolved against the 
same opponent it was originally initiated against.
Any effect that would prevent a challenge from being 
initiated against a player does not prevent a redirected 
challenge from resolving against that player. (This 
means that a redirected challenge may resolve against 
an opponent the attacking player supports.)
The player initiating the challenge cannot change which 
characters he or she has declared, or the challenge type 
that has been announced, when a challenge has been 
redirected.
Related: Melee Game
Removed from Game
A card that has been removed from the game is set aside 
and has no further interaction with the game in any 
manner for the duration of its removal.
If there is no specified duration, a card that has been 
removed from the game is considered removed until the 
end of the game.

Renown
Renown is a challenge resolution keyword. After a 
player wins a challenge, each participating character 
with the renown keyword he or she controls may gain 
1 power.
Replacement Effects
A replacement effect is an effect (usually an interrupt) 
that replaces the resolution of a triggering condition 
with a different means of resolving that same 
triggering condition, but in such a manner that the 
triggering condition is still considered to occur. The 
word “instead” is frequently indicative of a such an 
effect. After all interrupts to the triggering condition 
have resolved and it is time to resolve the triggering 
condition itself, the replacement effect resolves instead.
If multiple replacement effects are initiated against 
the same triggering condition, the most recent 
replacement effect is the one that is used for the 
resolution of the triggering condition.
For example, Benjen Stark has the following replacement 
effect, “Interrupt: When Benjen Stark is killed, gain 
2 power for your faction. Then, shuffle him back into 
your deck instead of placing him in your dead pile.” The 
triggering condition (i.e. the killing of Benjen Stark) 
will still occur, but the triggering condition will resolve 
differently from normal because the card will be shuffled 
back into its owner's deck rather than being placed in its 
owner’s dead pile.
Related: Interrupts
Reserve Value
Each plot card has a reserve value. During the taxation 
phase, each player compares his or her current hand 
size (i.e., the number of cards in the player’s hand) with 
the reserve value on his or her currently revealed plot 
(which incorporates all relevant reserve modifiers). If 
a player’s hand size is higher than his or her reserve 
value, that player must choose and discard cards from 
his or her hand until the hand size is equal to the 
reserve value. All players perform this process in 
player order.
Related: Plot Value Modifiers
Reserve Modifier
Reveal
When a player is instructed to reveal cards, that player 
is obliged to show those cards to his or her opponents. 
If there is no specified duration for the reveal, the 
revealed cards remain revealed until they reach a new 
destination (as specified by the ability), or through the 
completion of the ability's resolution.
x While it is revealed, a revealed card is still 
considered to be located in the game area (such as a 
player's hand or deck) from which it is revealed.
Revealed Plot
See “Plot Card” on page 15.
Rivals (Melee game only)
If a player’s title card lists another title as a “rival,” 
that player gains 1 power for his or her faction after 
winning a challenge against an opponent who bears 
that rival title. This occurs during framework step 
4.2.3 (see Appendix I) and is known as a rivals bonus.
x A player can gain a maximum of 1 rivals bonus per 
rival opponent by winning a challenge against that 
opponent each round.
Related: Melee Game, Title Cards
Sacrifice
When a player is instructed to sacrifice a card, that 
player must choose a card in play that he or she 
controls and that matches the requirements of the 
sacrifice, and place it in his or her discard pile.
x If the chosen card does not leave play, the sacrifice 
is not considered to have been made. 
x Sacrificing a card does not satisfy any other means 
(such as “kill” or “discard”) of a card leaving play.
x A sacrificed card cannot be saved.
Related: Ownership and Control, Save
Save
When a card is saved from an effect that attempts to 
remove that card from play, the card remains in play as 
the effect resolves and is not considered to have been 
killed, discarded, or otherwise removed from play by 
the effect.
x If a card is saved from 󲀈 claim, the card was still 
chosen for 󲀈 claim, and therefore is still counted 
towards the fulfillment of the claim.

x If an aspect of an ability that removes a card from 
play is followed by the text “cannot be saved,” players 
cannot attempt to save that card.
x If a constant ability or lasting effect imposes a 
condition upon a card that would continually drive 
it from play (for example, a lasting effect that applies to 
a character over a period of time, and kills that character 
if its STR is 0), any attempt to save the card must 
also remedy the ongoing condition. Otherwise, upon 
resolution of the save attempt, the card is immediately 
re-exposed to the ongoing condition, and removed 
from play. Therefore, if the save effect does not also 
remedy the ongoing condition, it cannot be initiated, 
as the effect has no potential to change the game 
state. As such, using a duplicate to save from such an 
ongoing condition is also prohibited.
Related: Effects, Military Claim, Would
Search
When a player is instructed to search for a card, that 
player is permitted to look at all of the cards in the 
searched area without revealing those cards to his or her 
opponents.
x If an effect searches an entire deck, the deck must 
be shuffled to the satisfaction of each opponent upon 
completion of the search.
x A player is not obliged to find the object of a search 
effect, even if the searched cards contain a card that 
meets the eligibility requirements of the search.
x If a search effect would add a card with specified 
characteristics to a hidden game area, the player 
fulfilling the search must reveal the card to his or 
her opponent to verify that the card is eligible to be 
found by the search.
x While cards are being searched, they are not 
considered to have left their play area of origin.
Related: Deck
Self-Referential Text
When a card’s ability text refers to its own title, it is 
referring to itself only, and not to other copies (by title) 
of the card.
Related: Copy
Set
See “Modifiers” on page 13.
Setup
To setup a game, perform the following steps in order:
1.	 Determine game format and select decks. Games 
with two players use the joust format. Games with 
three or more players use the melee format. 
2.	 Determine first player. Randomly determine a 
player to be denoted as first player while setting up 
the game. Place the first player token in front of 
this player.
3.	 Announce factions and agendas (if any). In player 
order, each player announces the faction and agenda 
(if any) that his or her deck uses, and places the 
faction card and agenda (if any) faceup in his or her 
play area.
4.	 Create treasury. Place the gold tokens, power 
counters, and influence tokens in a pile within reach 
of each player. This area is known as the treasury.
5.	 Place plot decks. Each player places his or her plot 
deck facedown next to his or her faction card.
6.	 Shuffle draw decks. Each player shuffles his or her 
draw deck to the satisfaction of all opponents.
7.	 Draw setup hands. Each player draws seven cards 
from his or her draw deck. Each player, in player 
order, has the option to take a single mulligan by 
shuffling those seven cards back into his or her deck 
and drawing seven new cards.
8.	 Place setup cards. Each player, in player order, 
may place up to a total of 8 cost worth of character, 
location, and attachment cards from his or her hand 
as setup cards. Setup cards are placed facedown in 
a player’s play area. When placing setup cards, the 
following restrictions must be observed:
✦No more than 8 total cost worth of cards may 
be placed.
✦No more than 1 card with the “Limited” keyword 
may be placed.
✦Only character, location, and attachment cards 
may be placed.
✦Each attachment that is placed must be eligible to 
be attached to a valid card or game element that 
will be under its owner’s control when the setup 
cards are revealed in the next step.

✦Additional copies of unique cards may be placed 
in setup at no cost, and revealed as duplicates in 
the following step.
9.	 Reveal setup cards. All players turn their setup 
cards faceup simultaneously. Then, each player 
attaches his or her attachments and places his or 
her duplicates, in player order. Note: Cards are not 
considered to have been marshaled, played, put into 
play, or to have entered play when they are revealed or 
announced in setup, and card abilities that reference 
those terms are ignored during this step. These cards are 
considered “already in play” when the game begins.
10.	Replenish opening hand. Each player draws cards 
until there are seven cards in his or her hand.
Related: Duplicates, Mulligan, Appendix II: Card 
Anatomy
Stand, Standing
A card that is in an upright state so that its 
controller can read its text from left to right is 
considered standing.
x The default state in which cards enter play 
is standing.
x A standing card is knelt by rotating it 90 degrees to 
the side.
Related: Enters Play, Kneel, Kneeling
Standing Phase
See Appendix I, “6. Standing phase” on page 29.
Stealth
Stealth is a keyword ability. When a player initiates 
a challenge, for each character with stealth he or she 
declares as an attacker, that player may choose one 
character without stealth controlled by the defending 
player. Each chosen character is considered bypassed 
by stealth, and is not eligible to be declared as a 
defender for that challenge.
STR
The abbreviation for “strength.”
Strength, Strength Modifiers
A character’s strength (abbreviated “STR”) represents 
its effectiveness in challenges. The higher the STR, 
the more effective the character. A character’s printed 
STR can be found in the shield to the left of its title.
Total attacking STR is the sum of each participating 
character’s STR on the attacking player's side, plus any 
relevant modifiers.
Total defending STR is the sum of each participating 
character’s STR on the defending player's side, plus 
any relevant modifiers.
A player is not able to win a challenge with a total 
attacking or defending STR of zero.
Supports (Melee game only)
If a player’s melee title card “supports” another title, 
the bearer of that title cannot initiate a challenge 
against the bearer of the title he or she supports.
Related: Title cards
Switch
Some abilities use the word “switch.” In order to 
resolve such an ability, switched items must exist on 
each side of the switch.
Target
The term “choose” indicates that a target must be 
chosen in order for an ability to resolve. The player 
resolving the effect must choose a game element 
(usually a card) that meets the targeting requirements 
of the ability.
x The controller of a targeting ability chooses all 
targets for the effect unless otherwise specified by 
the card.
x If an ability requires the choosing of a target (or 
targets), and there is no valid target (or not enough 
valid targets), then the ability cannot be initiated. 
This initiation check is made at the same time the 
ability’s play restrictions are checked.
x At the time targets are chosen, any currently valid 
targets are eligible to be chosen. (This choice is not 
restricted only to targets that were present during 
the initiation check.)
x If multiple targets are required to be chosen by the 
same player, these are chosen simultaneously.

x An effect that can choose “any number” of targets 
does not successfully resolve (and cannot change the 
game state) if zero of those targets are chosen.
x The resolution of some effects (such as post-then 
effects, or delayed effects) requires that targets are 
chosen after the initiation of the effect. Such targets 
need not be verified when checking play restrictions 
and determining whether or not the entire ability 
may initiate. If there are no valid targets at the time 
such targets would be chosen, that aspect of the 
effect fails to resolve.
x A card is not an eligible target for an ability if the 
resolution of that ability's effect could not affect the 
target at all. (For example, a kneeling character cannot 
be chosen as the target for an effect that reads, “choose and 
kneel a character.”)
Related: Delayed Effects, Initiating Abilities, 
The word “Then”
Taxation Phase
See Appendix I, “7. Taxation phase” on page 29.
Terminal
Terminal is a keyword ability that appears on 
attachment cards. If the card or game element to which 
a terminal card is attached leaves play, the attachment 
does not return to its owner's hand, and is discarded 
from play.
Related: Attachment Cards, Keywords
The word “Then”
If the effect text of an ability includes the word “then,” 
the text preceding the word “then” must be successfully 
resolved in full (i.e. the game state changes to reflect the 
intent of the pre-then aspect of the effect in its entirety) 
before the remainder of the effect described after the 
word “then” can be resolved.
x If the pre-then aspect of an effect does successfully 
resolve in full, the resolution of the post-then aspect 
of the effect must also attempt to resolve.
x If the pre-then aspect of an effect does not 
successfully resolve in full, the post-then aspect does 
not attempt to resolve.
Title Cards, Title Pool (Melee game only)
The title cards are used only in the melee game. Each 
title provides unique capabilities to its bearer, and 
fosters political relationships among the players. 
The title pool is created during game setup. It contains 
all of the title cards not currently controlled by a player. 
Players select a title from the title pool each round 
during the plot phase, and bear it throughout the round. 
While a player bears a title, it is in play under his or 
her control.
In addition to creating rival and support relationships 
among the players (and to the textual or iconic abilities 
described on the cards), each of the following titles 
also provides its bearer with a unique STR bonus for a 
specified part of the round.
The Crown Regent contributes 2 additional STR to its 
bearer’s total for dominance.
The Hand of the King contributes 1 additional STR to 
its bearer’s total during any 󲀉 challenge in which he or 
she controls a participating character.
The Master of Ships contributes 1 additional STR to its 
bearer’s total during any 󲀈 challenge in which he or she 
controls a participating character.
The Master of Whispers contributes 1 additional STR 
to its bearer’s total during any 󲀊 challenge in which he 
or she controls a participating character.
x If a player's title card leaves play, it must be returned 
to the title pool.
For title card anatomy, see Appendix II
Related: Melee Game, Plot Phase, Redirect, 
Rivals, Supports
Tokens, Running out of
There is no limit to the number of gold, power, or 
influence tokens which can be in the play area at a 
given time. If players run out of the provided tokens, 
other tokens, counters, or coins may be used to track the 
current game state.
Traits
Most cards have one or more traits listed at the top of 
the text box and printed in bold italics. 
x Traits have no inherent effect on the game. Instead, 
some card abilities reference cards that possess 
specific traits.
Treasury
The treasury is created during game setup and contains 
all of the tokens and counters not currently controlled 
by any player.

x When a player gains gold, that gold is taken from 
the treasury and added to the player’s gold pool. 
When a player spends gold to marshal a card or pay 
for an ability, that gold is returned to the treasury.
x When a card with any tokens or counters on it 
leaves play, those tokens or counters are returned 
to the treasury.
Related: Setup, Gold, Influence Tokens, Power
Triggered Abilities
A triggered ability is any ability with a boldface 
precursor followed by a colon and the rest of the 
ability. This incudes actions, phase specific actions, 
interrupts, reactions, forced interrupts or reactions, 
and when revealed abilities.
Related: Abilities, Triggering Condition
Triggering Condition
A triggering condition is a specific occurrence 
that takes place in the game. On card abilities, the 
triggering condition is the element of the ability that 
references such an occurrence, indicating the timing 
point at which the ability may be used. The description 
of an ability's triggering condition often follows the 
word “when” (for interrupt abilities) or the word “after” 
(for reaction abilities).
If a single occurrence creates multiple triggering 
conditions (such as two characters being killed 
simultaneously by a claim 2 military challenge), those 
triggering conditions are handled in shared interrupt/
reaction windows, in which abilities that refer to any 
of the triggering conditions created by that occurrence 
may be used.
The following is a sequence of possible interrupt 
and reaction opportunities that exists around each 
triggering condition that may arise in a game:
1.	 The triggering condition becomes imminent. (In 
other words, if it is not canceled, changed, or 
otherwise pre-empted by interrupt abilities, the 
triggering condition is the next thing that will 
occur in the game.) 
2.	 Interrupt abilities referencing when the imminent 
triggering condition “would” occur may be used. 
(Note that for effects, a “cancel” interrupt may 
prevent the effect from initiating, and that the 
initiation of an effect is a separate triggering 
condition, that comes before the resolution of the 
effect. “Cancel” interrupts are the only type that 
will reference the initiation of an effect.) If the 
imminent triggering condition is canceled, none 
of the subsequent steps in this sequence occur. If 
the triggering condition is changed, the original 
triggering condition is no longer imminent, but 
the newly established triggering condition is now 
imminent (usually, this will mean that a card that 
was about to leave play is now about to be saved).
3.	 Forced interrupts to the imminent triggering 
condition must resolve, in the order determined by 
the first player.
4.	 The interrupt window to the imminent triggering 
condition opens, and closes after all players 
consecutively pass.
5.	 The triggering condition itself occurs.
6.	 Forced reactions to the triggering condition must 
resolve, in the order determined by the first player.
7.	 The reaction window to the triggering condition 
opens, and closes after all players consecutively pass.
Related: Cancel, Initiating Abilities, Interrupts, 
Reactions, Would
Unique Cards
A card with the 󲀋 symbol before its card title is a 
“unique” card. Each player may only have a maximum 
of one instance of each unique card, by title, in play.
x A player may marshal (or put into play by a card 
ability) additional copies of each unique card he or 
she owns and controls, placed as a duplicate on that 
card, for no cost.
x A player cannot take control of a unique card if he 
or she already controls or owns an in-play copy of 
that card.
x A player cannot bring into play or take control of 
a unique card if a copy of that card is in his or her 
dead pile.
Related: Dead Pile, Duplicates, Ownership and Control
Unopposed, Unopposed Challenge
A challenge is “unopposed” if the defending 
player counts 0 STR when the challenge winner is 
determined. This can occur if the defending player 
controls no participating characters, or if there are 
defending characters but the total defending STR is 0.

x When a player wins an unopposed challenge as 
the attacker, that player gains 1 power for his or 
her faction card. This occurs during framework 
step 4.2.3 (see Appendix I), and is known as an 
unopposed bonus.
Used Pile
See “Plot Card” on page 15.
When Revealed
A When Revealed ability contains the boldface “When 
Revealed:” precursor. Such an ability must resolve 
whenever a plot card bearing it is revealed.
See timing step “1.3 Reveal plots” on page 26.
Winning a Challenge
Each challenge is won by the player who counts the 
highest total STR for his or her side when the challenge 
result is determined.
x A player's total STR is the sum of the STR of each 
participating character on his or her side of the 
challenge, along with any other modifiers that are 
affecting the amount of STR that player counts for 
that challenge.
x A player must count at least 1 total STR and there 
must be at least 1 participating character on his or 
her side in order to win a challenge.
x If the total STR counted on each side is tied at a 
value of 1 or greater (and the attacker controls at 
least 1 participating character), the attacker wins 
the challenge.
x If neither player can meet the requirements of 
winning a challenge, neither player wins (or loses) 
that challenge.
Related: Challenges Phase, Claim, Unopposed
Winning the Game
The first player to have 15 (or more) power on cards 
he or she controls wins the game. The game ends 
immediately if a player meets the victory condition of 
having 15 (or more) power.
x If multiple players would reach this victory condition 
simultaneously, the first player determines which of 
those players wins the game.
x A player is eliminated from the game when his or 
her draw deck has no cards remaining. If all of a 
player’s opponents are eliminated from the game, the 
remaining player wins the game. (If all remaining 
players would be eliminated simultaneously, the first 
player determines the order in which those players 
are eliminated.)
Would
The word “would” is used to define the triggering 
condition of some interrupt abilities, and establishes a 
higher priority for those abilities than interrupts to the 
same triggering condition that lack the word “would.”
All “would be X” interrupts are eligibly to be used 
before any “is X” interrupts. This means that an 
interrupt with the word “would” (such as “when a 
character would be killed”) has timing priority over 
an interrupt without the word “would” to the same 
occurrence (such as “when a character is killed”). 
x If an interrupt to a triggering condition that would 
occur changes the nature of that which is about 
to occur (such as saving a character that would be 
killed), no further interrupts to the original trigger 
may be used, as the resolution of that trigger is no 
longer imminent.
Related: Cancel, Interrupts, Replacement Effects, Save
The letter “X”
Unless specified by a card ability or granted player 
choice, the letter X is always equal to 0. For costs 
involving the letter X, the value of X is defined by card 
ability or player choice, after which the amount paid may 
be modified by effects without altering the value of X.
Component List
For reference, the game components included in the 
core set are:
x 28 Plot cards
x 20 Stark cards
x 20 Lannister cards
x 20 Baratheon cards
x 20 Greyjoy cards
x 20 Targaryen cards
x 20 Martell cards
x 20 Tyrell cards
x 20 Night’s Watch cards
x 31 Neutral cards
x 1 Fealty Agenda card
x 8 Faction/Agenda cards
x 6 Melee title cards
x 30 Gold tokens
x 30 Power counters
x 10 Influence tokens
x 1 First Player token

Appendix I: Timing 
and Gameplay
Numbered items presented in the darker boxes are 
known as framework events. Framework events are 
mandatory occurrences dictated by the structure of the 
game. Yellow windows are framework events that only 
occur when playing the melee format of the game. Grey 
windows are special framework events that indicate 
the possibility of the game returning to an earlier 
framework event in the chart. These repetitive sequences 
can end in various ways, such as when all players have 
performed the steps in the sequence, or when a player 
makes a specific decision. Each grey window explains 
when and how the game either loops back or progresses 
to a later framework event.
Action Windows
An Action may only be initiated during an action 
window. Action windows are presented in red boxes 
on the chart. When an action window opens, the 
first player has the first opportunity to initiate an 
action, or pass. Opportunities to initiate actions 
rotate between the players in player order until all 
players consecutively pass, at which point the action 
window closes. (Note that if a player passes his or 
her opportunity to act, but the other opponents do 
not consecutively pass in sequence, the original player 
may still take an action when the rotation of action 
opportunities comes back around to the original player.)
Resolve each action completely before the next 
action opportunity.
Reactions and Interrupts
An Interrupt or Reaction ability can interrupt or react 
to the resolution of a framework event if the triggering 
condition of the ability is met.
Each reaction or interrupt must resolve completely 
before the next interrupt or reaction to the same 
triggering condition may initiate.
For example: An ability that reads, “Reaction: After 
you win a challenge…” initiates after step (4.2.2) of the 
challenge resolution framework event is complete.
Proceed to Draw phase
1. PLOT PHASE
1.5 Plot phase ends.
1.1 Round begins. Plot phase begins.
1.2 Choose plots.
1.3 Reveal plots.
	
	
I. Count initiative.
	
	
II. Determine first player.
	
	
III. Resolve “when revealed” abilities.
1.4 Select titles (Melee format only).
Proceed to Marshaling phase
2. DRAW PHASE
2.3 Draw phase ends.
2.1 Draw phase begins.
2.2 Each player draws 2 cards.
Proceed to Challenges phase
3. MARSHALING PHASE
3.4 Marshaling phase ends.
3.1 Marshaling phase begins.
3.2 Active player collects income (first player starts as 
active player).
SPECIAL ACTION WINDOW
All players may use actions, but only the 
active player can marshal cards into play.
3.3 Next player becomes active player, until each player 
has been active player.

4.2.6 Challenge ends.
CHALLENGE RESOLUTION
4.2 Challenge is initiated.
4.2.1 Defending player declares defenders.
4.2.2 Compare STR to determine challenge winner.
4.2.3 Gain challenge bonuses.
4.2.4 Apply claim result.
4.2.5 Process challenge resolution keywords.
5. DOMINANCE PHASE
5.3 Dominance phase ends.
Proceed to Standing phase.
5.1 Dominance phase begins.
5.2 Count standing STR (and unspent gold) and 
reward dominance.
6. STANDING PHASE
Proceed to Taxation phase.
6.1 Standing phase begins.
6.2 Stand each kneeling card.
6.3 Standing phase ends.
Proceed to Plot phase of next game round.
7. TAXATION PHASE
7.5 Taxation phase ends. Round ends.
7.1 Taxation phase begins.
7.2 Return unspent gold to treasury.
7.3 Each player discards cards in hand down to his or 
her reserve value.
7.4 Return all titles to the title pool. 
(Melee format only.)
4. CHALLENGES PHASE
4.4 Challenges phase ends.
Proceed to Dominance phase.
4.1 Challenges phase begins.
4.2 Active player may initiate a challenge, if able 
(first player starts as active player). If the active player 
initiates a challenge, move to challenge resolution flow 
chart.
4.3 If the active player does not initiate further chal-
lenges, the next player in player order becomes active 
player; proceed to “Action Window.” If all players have 
been active player, proceed to 4.4.

Framework Event Details
This section provides a detailed explanation on how 
to handle each framework event step presented on the 
game’s flow chart, in the order that the framework 
events occur throughout the round.
1. Plot phase
1.1 Plot phase begins
This step formalizes the beginning of the plot phase. 
As this is the first framework event of the round, it 
also formalizes the beginning of a new game round.
The beginning of a phase is an important game 
milestone that may be referenced in card text, either 
as a point at which an ability may or must resolve, or 
as a point at which a lasting effect or constant ability 
begins or expires.
1.2 Choose plots
Each player looks at the cards remaining in his or her 
plot deck, and chooses one to reveal during the next 
framework step. The chosen plot is placed facedown 
apart from the plot deck, and not revealed to other 
players during this step.
Once each player has chosen a plot and placed it 
facedown away from his or her plot deck, this step 
is complete.
1.3 Reveal plots
The players simultaneously reveal each of the plot cards 
that were chosen during step 1.2 by turning those 
cards faceup.
When a player's plot card is revealed, it is placed on 
top of his or her previously revealed plot card. All plot 
cards beneath a player’s currently revealed plot card are 
considered that player’s “used pile.” 
The act of revealing plot cards for this framework event 
involves three steps, performed in this order:
I. Compare initiative. The player with the highest 
initiative value on his or her revealed plot card (which 
incorporates all relevant reserve modifiers) wins 
initiative. If multiple players have the same initiative 
value, the tied player with the lowest power total wins 
initiative. If the players’ initiative and power totals are 
both tied, the tie is broken by randomly selecting one 
of the tied players.
II. Choose first player. The player who won initiative 
in step I chooses a player to be the first player. The 
chosen player takes the first player token and keeps it 
until another card or game effect (usually this step in 
the following round) selects a new first player.
Note: If a player reveals a new plot card outside the 
standard plot phase framework step (for instance, 
by resolving a card ability), steps I and II are 
skipped: there is no new initiative comparison or 
determination of a new first player.
III. Initiate When Revealed abilities. Any when 
revealed abilities on plot cards that have just been 
revealed must now initiate. If multiple players 
have When revealed abilities on their plot cards, 
the first player determines the order in which these 
abilities initiate. Resolve each when revealed ability 
before initiating the next.
Once these steps are complete, the players have 
completed the process of revealing plots. If a player has 
no cards in his or her plot deck, that player's used pile 
now returns to his or her plot deck. (The just revealed 
plot is not yet in the used pile and does not return at 
this time.)
TIMING NOTE: Any reaction abilities that read “After 
you reveal a plot card” or “After a player reveals a plot card” 
may be initiated after the completion of the above step III.
1.4 Select titles (melee format only)
If the players are playing a melee game, they now 
select titles for the round. In a joust game, this 
framework step is skipped.
First, shuffle the six titles facedown and remove one 
at random from the title pool. If three players are 
playing, remove two at random instead. If six or more 
players are playing, no titles are removed.
The first player then looks at the remaining titles in 
the title pool, and takes one without revealing his 
or her selection to the other players. The remaining 
titles are passed in player order, with each player 
selecting one title in this manner. After all players 
have selected, any unselected titles (including the 
titles that were randomly removed at the beginning 
of this step) are returned facedown to the title pool, 
and each selected title is turned face up in front of the 
player who selected it. Each selected title enters play 
simultaneously, is considered in play under its bearer's 
control, and may interact with the game state until it is 
returned to the title pool.

If more than six players are playing in a melee game, 
any player who would be selecting a title from an empty 
title pool plays the round without a title.
1.5 Plot phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the plot phase.
The end of a phase is an important game milestone 
that may be referenced in card text, either as a point at 
which an ability may or must resolve, or as a point at 
which a lasting effect or constant ability expires 
or begins.
2. Draw phase
2.1 Draw phase begins
This step formalizes the beginning of the draw phase.
2.2 Draw
Each player must simultaneously draw 2 cards from the 
top of his or her draw deck.
Note: A player is eliminated from the game 
immediately if there are no cards remaining in his or 
her deck. If all remaining players are eliminated while 
fulfilling this step, the first player determines which of 
those players is the winner of the game.
2.3 Draw phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the draw phase.
3. Marshaling phase
3.1 Marshaling phase begins
marshaling phase.
3.2 Active player collects income
The first player is first to be the active player in the 
marshaling phase.
The active player collects income equal to the gold value 
on his or her revealed plot card (which incorporates all 
relevant gold modifiers), and gains that much gold from 
the treasury, adding it to his or her gold pool.
Marshaling phase player action window
The first player always has the first opportunity to act 
during this action window. 
In addition to being permitted to initiate “Action” and 
“Marshaling Action” abilities (like all players), the 
active player is also permitted (when it is his or her 
turn to act) to, as a player action, marshal a character, 
location, attachment, or duplicate. Action opportunities 
in this window continue in player order until each 
player has consecutively passed. 
TIMING NOTE: Any player may also initiate Interrupt 
or Reaction abilities if the appropriate triggering 
condition occurs.
To marshal a card, a player returns an amount of gold 
equal to the card’s gold cost from his or her gold pool to 
the treasury.
When a player marshals a character card, the card is 
placed in the front row of that player’s play area.
When a player marshals a location card, the card is 
placed in the back row of that player’s play area.
When a player marshals an attachment card, the card is 
attached to another card or game element in play. Some 
attachments have play restrictions or permissions that 
describe the type of card or game element to which they 
must be attached. If an attachment does not have any 
such restriction or permission, the default state for an 
attachment is that it attaches to a character.
When a player marshals a duplicate, it is placed faceup, 
overlapped by (i.e. partially visible beneath) the copy 
of the card that was already in play. There is no cost to 
marshal a duplicate.
Action opportunities continue clockwise in player order 
among the players until all players consecutively pass, at 
which point the action window closes. As such, there is 
no upper limit on the number of opportunities an active 
player may have to marshal his or her cards. 
3.3 Next player becomes active player
If upon reaching this step all players have been the 
active player this phase, proceed to step 3.4. 
Otherwise, the next player (in player order) becomes the 
active player. Return to step 3.2.
3.4 Marshaling phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the marshaling phase.
4. Challenges phase
4.1 Challenges phase begins
challenges phase.
4.2 Active player may initiate a challenge
The first player is the first to be the active player in the 
challenges phase.
The game permits the active player to initiate one 󲀈, 
one 󲀊, and one 󲀉 challenge (in any order) while he or 
she is the active player during the challenges phase. 

If the active player passes this opportunity to initiate 
a challenge, or cannot initiate a challenge, proceed to 
step 4.3.
To initiate a challenge, the active player does the 
following. The game treats these criteria as being 
performed atomically (all at once), and they must all be 
completed together in order to initiate a challenge. 
x Announces the type of challenge (󲀈, 󲀊, or 󲀉) 
being initiated.
x Announces the opponent against whom the 
challenge is being initiated.
x Announces which characters (under his or her 
control) are being declared as attackers, and kneels 
them simultaneously. In order to be eligible as an 
attacker, a character must have a challenge icon 
that corresponds with the type of challenge being 
initiated, and the character must be standing. At 
least one character must be declared as an attacker 
to initiate a challenge. Any character with the 
stealth keyword that has been declared as an 
attacker also chooses its stealth targets at this time 
if its controller desires to use the stealth keyword.
TIMING NOTE: Once a challenge is initiated, reactions 
to any of the above announcements may be initiated.
TIMING NOTE: Once a challenge is initiated, it is 
considered to be resolving until the challenge ends in 
step 4.2.6.
4.2.1 Defending player declares defenders
The defending player has the option to declare eligible 
characters he or she controls as defenders, and kneels 
them simultaneously. In order to be eligible as a 
defender, a character must have a challenge icon 
that corresponds with the type of challenge that 
is currently underway, and the character must be 
standing. A character that was chosen as a stealth 
target in step 4.2 is not eligible to be declared as a 
defender.
4.2.2 Compare STR to determine challenge winner
Compare the combined STR of all attacking 
characters (plus any active modifiers) to the combined 
STR of all defending characters (plus any active 
modifiers) to determine the challenge winner. 
The player whose side has the higher total STR wins 
the challenge (or in the case of a tie, the challenge is 
won by the attacking player). If this player does not 
have a total STR of 1 or higher, and/or if there are no 
participating characters on this player’s side when this 
step (i.e., the STR comparison) occurs, neither player 
wins (or loses) the challenge.
If the attacking player is the winner, and the total 
STR on the defending side of the challenge was 0, the 
challenge is considered “unopposed.” 
TIMING NOTE: Reactions to winning and/or losing the 
challenge may be initiated after the completion of this step.
4.2.3 Gain challenge bonuses
If the challenge was unopposed in the previous step, 
the attacking player gains 1 power for his or her 
faction card for winning an unopposed challenge. This 
is known as an unopposed bonus.
In a melee game, if the challenge was won against an 
opponent bearing a title which is denoted as a Rival 
on the winning player’s title (and the challenge winner 
has not already claimed power for defeating that Rival 
this round), the challenge winner gains 1 power for his 
or her faction. This is known as a rivals bonus.
All challenge bonuses a player receives for this step are 
gained simultaneously.
4.2.4 Apply claim result. 
If the attacking player is the challenge winner, the 
claim result of the challenge is now applied. The claim 
result for each challenge type resolves as follows, using 
the claim value on the attacking player's revealed plot 
card (and incorporating all relevant claim modifiers):
󲀈 Military: The defending player must choose 
a number of different characters under his or her 
control equal to the claim value, and kill those 
characters. (The chosen characters do not have to 
be characters that participated in the challenge.)
󲀊 Intrigue: The defending player must discard, at 
random, a number of cards from his or her hand 	
equal to the claim value.
󲀉 Power: The defending player removes a number 
of power counters from his or her faction card 
equal to the claim value, and moves them to the 
attacking player’s faction card.
If the defending player wins the challenge, no claim 
result occurs.

4.2.5 Process challenge resolution keywords
Challenge resolution keywords (e.g. insight, intimidate, 
pillage, and renown) take effect at this time. The 
first player determines the order, by keyword type, in 
which these keywords are processed. The first player 
chooses one keyword type (for instance, renown), and 
then all relevant instances of that keyword resolve 
simultaneously. The first player then chooses the next 
keyword type to resolve, and so on, until all keyword 
types that need to resolve upon the resolution of the 
challenge have been processed.
4.2.6 Challenge ends
This step formalizes the end of the challenge. All 
characters that were participating in the challenge are 
no longer participating. Proceed to the action window 
between framework steps 4.1 and 4.2.
4.3 Next player becomes active player
If the active player does not declare a challenge, or 
cannot initiate any more challenges, the next player in 
player order becomes the active player. Proceed to the 
player action window between framework steps 4.1 
and 4.2.
If all players have been the active player this phase, 
proceed to 4.4.
4.4 Challenges phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the challenges phase.
5. Dominance phase
5.1 Dominance phase begins
dominance phase.
5.2 Determine dominance
Each player simultaneously counts the total combined 
STR of all of his or her standing characters, and adds 
1 to this total for each gold token in his or her gold 
pool. The player with the highest total wins dominance 
for the round, and gains 1 power for his or her faction. 
(Note: a player may win dominance with no 
standing characters.)
If there is a tie for the highest total, no player 
wins dominance.
5.3 Dominance phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the dominance phase.
6. Standing phase
6.1 Standing phase begins
This step formalizes the beginning of the standing phase.
6.2 Stand cards
Simultaneously stand each kneeling card in play.
6.3 Standing phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the standing phase.
7. Taxation phase
7.1 Taxation phase begins
This step formalizes the beginning of the taxation phase.
7.2 Return unspent gold
Each player simultaneously returns all unspent gold in 
his or her gold pool to the treasury.
7.3 Check reserve
Each player, in player order, checks his or her reserve.
Any player with more cards in hand than the 
reserve value on his or her revealed plot card (which 
incorporates all relevant reserve modifiers) chooses and 
discards cards from his or her hand until that player’s 
hand size and reserve value are equal.
A player is not permitted to discard cards from his 
or her hand at this time while at or below his or her 
reserve value.
7.4 Return melee title cards (melee format only)
Each player returns his or her title to the title pool. All 
titles leave play simultaneously. (In a joust game, this 
step is skipped.)
7.5 Taxation phase ends
This step formalizes the end of the taxation phase.
As the taxation phase is the final phase in the round, 
this step also formalizes the end of the round. Any 
active “until the end of the round” lasting effects expire 
at this time.
After this step is complete, play proceeds to the 
beginning of the plot phase of the next game round.

Appendix II: Card Anatomy
This section presents a detailed anatomy of each cardtype. Definitions of each element can be found in the glossary.
Card Anatomy Key
Card Anatomy Key
Factions & 
Agendas
Titles
Illus. Chris Pritchard
Title
Supports: Master of Ships
Rivals: Hand of the King, 
Master of Whispers
Within three years of his coming to court, he was 
master of coin and a member of the small council, 
and today the crown’s revenues were ten times what 
they had been under his beleaguered predecessor…
though the crown’s debts had grown vast as well.
Supported by Master of Laws
Master of Coin
+2
House Lannister
 200A
Illus. David Griffith
Agenda
You may include non-loyal 󲀃󲀃 cards in your deck.
You must include at least 12 󲀃󲀃 cards in 
your deck.
Renly swept a hand across the campfires that burned from horizon 
to horizon. "Well, there is my claim, as good as Robert's ever was."
Banner of the Rose
Banner.
 205B
Illus. David Griffith

Plots
Characters
Events
Locations
Attachments
Illus. Tommy Arnold
+2
Character
Lord.
Renown.
Tywin Lannister gets +1 STR for each gold in 
your gold pool.
󲀋󲀋Tywin Lannister
Illus. Gabrielle Portal
Event
Play only if you control a unique 
󲀅󲀅 character.
Interrupt: When the effects of 
a triggered character, location, or 
attachment ability initiate, cancel 
those effects.
Treachery
X ##
Illus. Tomasz Jedruszek
Scheme. War.
When Revealed: Each player chooses up to 3 characters he or she 
controls. Kill each character not chosen (cannot be saved).
Wildfire Assault
Illus. Sergey Glushakov
Location
Stronghold. The Westerlands.
You may initiate an additional 󲀊󲀊 challenge 
during the challenges phase.
“They say there is naught but stone 
at the heart of Casterly Rock.” 
–Catelyn Stark
󲀋󲀋Casterly Rock
Illus. Joshua Cairós
Attachment
Ambush (1).
Attached character gets +2 STR.
If attached character is Joffrey Baratheon, 
he gains a 󲀈󲀈 icon.
Valyrian Steel. Weapon.
󲀋󲀋Widow’s Wail

Index
A
action..............................24
active player......................3
agenda cards...............3, 30
ambush..............................3
attachment cards...............3
attacker.......................3, 28
B
blank.................................4
C
cancel................................4
cannot...............................4
challenge...........................4
challenges phase.............27
character cards............4, 31
claim, claim value.............4
component list................23
control.............................14
cost....................................5
D
dead pile............................5
deck...................................5
deckbuilding.....................5
defender......................6, 28
discard pile........................6
dominance phase............29
draw phase......................27
duplicates..........................7
E
effects................................7
event cards........................7
F
faction cards................8, 30
first player...................8, 26
forced................................8
for your faction.................8
framework effects and 
framework events........9, 24
G
gold.............................9, 27
golden rules.......................2
I
income........................9, 27
influence tokens..............10
initiate a challenge..........27
initiative....................10, 26
in play.............................10
insight.............................10
interrupt....................10, 24
intimidate.......................11
intrigue challenge.....11, 28
J
joust game.......................11
K
keyword..........................11
kneel...............................11
L
limited.............................12
location cards............12, 31
M
marshal...............10, 13, 27
marshaling phase............27
melee game.....................13
military challenge.....13, 28
mulligan..........................14
N
no attachments...............14
O
out of play.........................9
ownership.......................14
P
participating character....15
pillage.............................15
play a card.......................10
player order.....................15
plot card....................15, 31
plot phase........................26
power..............................16
power challenge........16, 28
put into play....................16
R
reaction..................... 17, 24
redirect............................17
renown............................18
reserve value..............18, 29
reveal...............................18
rivals................................18
S
sacrifice...........................18
save..................................18
search..............................19
setup................................19
simultaneous...................16
standing phase................29
stealth.............................20
strength (STR)...............20
supports..........................20
T
taxation phase.................29
terminal..........................21
title cards............21, 26, 29
traits................................21
treasury...........................21
triggered abilities............22
U
unique cards....................22
unopposed challenge......22
W
when revealed...........23, 26
winning the game...........23
would..............................23
Playtesting Credits
For the second edition of A Game of Thrones: The Card Game, we marshaled 
a huge amount of playtesting strength. Our testers are our watchers on the 
Wall, and they have our undying thanks:
A. Grenier, A.P. Hynes, Aaron Broderick, Aaron Glazer, Aaron Settles, Adam “Bomb” 
Cerbone, Adam DeWulf, Adam Zuback, Allen Haas, Alex Esposito, Alex Filewood, 
Alex Kern, Álvaro Rodríguez, Amy Mangrich, Andrea Gualdoni, Andreas Aldrin, 
Anette Hall, Antti “WWDrakey” Korventausta, Ben Comstock, Ben DeWitt, Ben Tully, 
Ben Wesolowski, Björn Jorner, Brad “ELSM” Andres, Brad Zimmerman, Brandon 
Zimmer, Bret Kelso, Brian Aurelio, Brian Brimmer, Brian Cloonan, Brian Fred , 
Brian Gerken, Britt Fitch, Brooks Mitchell, Buz Hannon, Caleb “Bulldog” Grace, 
Cameron Davisson, Charles Haring, Chris ‘Leo’ Garder, Chris Gerber, Chris Kizer, 
Chris Schoenthal, Chris Thompson, Christopher Lavin, Colby Cram, Cory Glenn, Curt 
Shumaker, D. Tremblay, Dakota Zimmer, Damon Stone, Dan “Kid” Seefeldt, Dan 
Strouhal, Daniel Ach, Daniel Creed, Darlene Plis, Darryl Loyd, Dennis Harrison, 
Derrick Billings, Diego Iotti, Doug Knollenberg, Doug Pearson, Eddie Westdal, Elwe, 
Eric Lawell, Eric S. Wood, Erick Butzlaff, Erik Dahlman, Evan Craig, Evan Johnson, 
Evn Tomeny, Federico Pasolini, G. Rousseau, Greg Atkinson, Gregory Sztain, Guy 
Hancock, Hannah Kane, Harold Jean, Hodor!, Iiro “Ire” Jalonen, Ingrid Henmark, 
Jaclyn Wilson, Jacob Kern, Jakob Hultman, James Plank, James Randall Barnes, James 
Speck, James Waumsley, Jamie Bamfield, Jason Aubry, Jason Cerbone, Jeff Molander, 
Jere Tuovinen, Jeremy Hogan, Jeremy Zwirn, Jesse James Slater, Jesse Mariona, Jesse 
Schingen, Jesse Sutherland, Jessica Hamburger, Jim Thomas, Jimi Lawson, Joe Oberbeck, 
Joey Huskinson, John Bruno, John Kraus, John R. Barber, John Salas, Jon Lenz, Jonas 
Henriksson, Jonathan Andrews, Josephine Fowler, Josh Forbes, Jukka Raninen, Julien 
Menuet Justen Reddick, Justin Tholl, Kai Tai Chan, Kaleb Phillips, Keith Wigner, 
Ken Keller, Kevin McClure, Kyle Szklenski, Lauren Fitch, Liisa Ronkainen, Luca 
Manfredini, Lukas Litzsinger, Luke Whitehurst, M-A. Marcotte, M-L. Lemay, Marin 
Christensen, Mark Downing-Heese, Mark Larson, Mark Moore, Mark Yocius, Martin 
Carlsson, Martin Henmark, Massimo Lizzori, Mat Armstrong, Matt Jenkins, Matt 
Mareck, Matt Newman, Matt Phillips, Matthew Gehman, Matthew Ley, Matthew 
Rogers, Matthew Vercant, Max Meier, Michael Clarke, Michael K. Spaulding, Michael 
Norman, Michael Sibilia, Michael Wallace, Miguel Tarín, Mike Hantsch, Morgan 
Stana, Myron Mychal, Nate Torok, Nathan Tarantelli, Nathaniel Dean, Neil Kimball, 
Nicolò Merusi, Patrick Brennan, Patrick Haynes, Peter Wilson, Pontus Strimling, 
R.E. Hynes, Rachel Houk, Rheece Kennedy, Rich Meade, Richard Skelton, Rob Hayes, 
Robert Kopp, Ronnie Rivas Jr., Rowan Gavin, Roy Rogers, Ryan Jones, Ryan Lenard, 
Ryan Ritter, Sam Braatz, Samuel Bailey, Scott Awesome, Sean Becker, Sean Clemons, 
Sean Emberly, Sean Pacer Stringfellow, Shayne Lindeman, Stefan Hoard, Stephan 
Pennington, Stephen McNamara, Steven Cantrell, Steven Francisco, Stuart Wilson, 
Tabitha Hastie, Tagore Nakornchai, Talieson Solmon, Tasslehoff, Tiny Grimes, Tommy 
Plis, Tony Reische, Travis Pinter, Travis White, Tyler Hockman, Tyson Villa, Vince 
Acceturro, Will “Kennon” Lentz, and Zach Nichols. Very special thanks to each of our 
beta testers!