Table of Contents 
1.0 Introduction................................................................ 1 
1.1 The Sides................................................................ 1 
1.2 The Rules................................................................ 1 
1.3 The Mapboard......................................................... 2 
1.4 The Playing Pieces ................................................. 3 
2.0 Setting up the 1861 Campaign Game....................... 4 
3.0 Sequence of Play ....................................................... 4 
4.0 Movement ................................................................... 5 
4.1 First Game Turn Restriction .................................... 6 
4.11 [Optional] Additional First Turn Restrictions ................ 6 
4.12 [Optional] Kentucky Neutrality ..................................... 6 
4.2 The Potomac River Restriction................................ 6 
4.3 Entrenchment.......................................................... 6 
4.4 Cavalry Jump Moves............................................... 7 
4.5 Union River Jump Moves ........................................ 7 
4.6 Union Sea Movement.............................................. 7 
4.7 Union Naval Invasions ............................................ 7 
4.71 [Optional] Fort Monroe................................................. 8 
4.8 [Optional] Crack Infantry ......................................... 8 
4.9 [Optional] Union Rail Movement Bonus .................. 8 
5.0 Combat ....................................................................... 8 
5.1 Resolving Battle Rounds......................................... 8 
5.2 [Optional] Like Battlefield Targets ........................... 9 
5.3 Battle Die Roll Modifiers.......................................... 9 
5.31 Entrenchment (-1)........................................................ 9 
5.32 Crack Infantry Units (-1)............................................... 9 
5.33 Impossible Shots ......................................................... 9 
5.34 Attacking Across Rivers (+1) ..................................... 10 
5.4 Retreating from Battle ............................................10 
5.41 [Optional] Union Naval Evacuations .......................... 10 
5.5 Reinforcing a Battle................................................10 
5.6 Cavalry Withdrawal before Combat........................11 
5.7 Recovery from Battle Damage ...............................11 
5.71 [Optional] Refitting the Army...................................... 11 
6.0 Promotions................................................................13 
6.1 [Optional] Combat Experience ...............................13 
6.2 [Optional] Confederate Replacement Training .......13 
7.0 Recruitment...............................................................14 
7.1 Maximum Army Size ..............................................14 
7.2 Union Army Drafts..................................................14 
7.3 [Optional] The Draft Riots of 1863..........................15 
7.4 [Optional] Increasing Union Forces........................15 
7.5 [Optional] Historical Recruitment Limitations..........15 
8.0 Capturing and Controlling Boxes............................16 
9.0 Game Length.............................................................16 
9.1 [Optional] Extended Game.....................................16 
10.0 Victory Conditions..................................................17 
10.1 [Optional] Helping a Novice Union Player ............17 
11.0 Scenarios.................................................................17 
11.1 The 1861 Short Game Scenario...........................17 
11.2 The 1862 – 64 Scenario Special Rules................17 
11.3 The 03 (March) Ending Date Victory Conditions ..18 
11.4 The 1862 – 64 Scenario Setup Abbreviations......18 
11.5 The 1862 Scenario Setup ....................................18 
11.6 The 1863 Scenario Setup ....................................19 
11.7 The 1864 Scenario Setup ....................................20 
“A house divided against itself cannot stand. 
I believe this government cannot endure permanently 
half slave and half free. 
I do not expect the Union to be dissolved – I do not 
expect the house to fall – but I do expect it to cease 
to be divided. 
It will become all one thing, or all the other. 
Either the opponents of slavery will arrest the further 
spread of it, and place it where the public mind shall 
rest in the belief that it is in the course of ultimate 
extinction; or its advocates will push it forward, until it 
shall become alike lawful in all states, old as well as 
new, North as well as South.” 
– Abraham Lincoln, 16 June 1858 
1.0 Introduction 
The epic struggle of the American Civil War was 
primarily fought over the issues of slavery and states’ 
rights. The period from 1840 to 1861 saw the issues 
brought to a boil, and in 1861 the nation became 
embroiled in a terrible war that lasted four long years. 
This game covers that war between the North (the 
Union) and the South (the Confederacy) from the 
First Battle of Bull Run to Lee’s surrender at 
Appomattox (or perhaps Grant’s surrender at 
Harrisburg…). Each player becomes a leader of one 
of these two nations and makes the strategic 
decisions that will determine the outcome of the war. 
1.1 The Sides 
Two sides play A House Divided: 
One player is the North – he represents the original 
United States. Throughout the game, the terms North 
and Union are used interchangeably to mean the 
original (Northern) United States of America (USA). 
The other player is the South – he represents the 
Confederacy. The terms South and Confederate (or 
Confederacy) are used to mean the Confederate 
States of America (CSA). 
1.2 The Rules 
This booklet contains the A House Divided Basic 
Game Rules, along with all of its Optional Rules 
(highlighted in yellow thus) and Scenarios. 
A House Divided 
The American Civil War: 1861 to 1865 
Special Living Edition Basic Game Rules © 2006 by Alan Emrich 

• Charts, tables, and additional player aids are 
provided in separate files. 
• The Advanced Game Rules booklet is also 
provided in a separate file. 
Game Terms: There is no glossary. When a new 
game term is introduced in these rules, you will find 
it underlined and explained nearby. To refresh your 
memory about a certain game term, scan through the 
rules booklet looking for underlined words. 
Optional Rules: These should not be used by new 
players during their first few games, so skip these 
highlighted sections when first learning the rules. 
• Players may freely pick and choose exactly which 
Optional Rules to use – they may be employed 
separately or in any combination. Players need not 
use them all at once. 
• The following Optional Rules have a pro-Union 
effect on play balance: 
4.9 Union Rail Movement Bonus 
5.41 Union Naval Evacuations 
7.4 Increasing Union Forces 
7.5 Historical Recruiting Limitations 
9.1 Extended Game 
10.1 Helping a Novice Union Player 
• The following Optional Rules have a pro-
Confederate effect on play balance: 
4.11 Additional First Turn Restrictions 
4.12 Kentucky Neutrality 
4.71 Fort Monroe 
6.2 Confederate Replacement Training 
7.3 The Draft Riots of 1863 
• The following Optional Rules are neutral and have 
little effect on play balance: 
4.8 Crack Infantry 
5.2 Like Battlefield Targets 
5.71 Refitting the Army 
6.1 Combat Experience 
Also note that these are “Living Rules” in that they 
have been reformatted, reorganized, and include the 
game’s latest clarifications, notes and innovations. 
These Living Rules have been written and edited by 
Alan Emrich (who has been laboring over A House 
Divided as both a designer and developer since its 
second edition in 1989). They are updated from time 
to time and are available for free at his web site: 
http://www.alanemrich.com/Games_Archive_pages/
AHD_pages/ahd.htm
1.3 The Mapboard 
This game is played on a mounted mapboard 
showing America, from the Atlantic coast on the east 
to Missouri, Arkansas, and Louisiana on the west. On 
the map are a number of boxes, each representing a 
city, town, or important military location during the 
war. These boxes are connected by Transportation 
Lines: rivers (blue), roads (tan), and railroads 
(brown). 
Military pieces (hereafter referred to as “units”) on 
the map are placed in the boxes to define their 
positions. They move from box to box along 
transportation lines during play. 
Every box has a name and a color that shows its 
default political loyalty (blue for Union, gray for 
Confederate, and tan for Neutral or ‘Border State’ 
territory). 
 
Some boxes also contain information relating to 
combat, such as entrenchments (Washington, 
Richmond, Ft. Monroe, and Vicksburg) and rivers 
(found along the edges of that box – units moving 
into battle through the side of a box with a blue line 
are said to be ‘attacking across the river’). 
And some boxes also contain information relating to 
movement, such as ports (anchor symbols), or 
Recruitment (the Recruitment Values are show in red 
and blue shields for the Confederate and Union sides, 
respectively). 
Features on the map other than these are purely 
decorative and have no game function. 

Reduced 
Reduced Units 
1.4 The Playing Pieces 
A House Divided includes 160 cardboard playing 
pieces that represent the military units which fought 
in the war and various information markers about the 
game. There are also 3 standup leader pieces (used in 
the Advanced Game only). Union pieces are colored 
blue; Confederate pieces are colored gray. 
 
Unit Types: The information printed on the military 
units identifies them as Infantry (foot soldiers) or 
Cavalry (soldiers on horseback). In addition, the 
quality of the troops is shown (Militia, Veteran, or 
Crack). 
Combat Values: The number in the bottom corner is 
that unit’s Combat Value (essentially, a unit needs to 
roll that number or less on a die to ‘hit’ an enemy 
unit in battle). 
 
Reduced Units: Note that each military unit has two 
sides. The side with the white-printed Combat Value 
represents a fully fit unit, while the red-printed side 
represents a unit that has suffered losses in battle and 
is now ‘reduced’ in its ability to survive further 
combat. Think of a unit’s white side as its 2-step side, 
and the red side as its 1 step (i.e., reduced strength) 
side where a single ‘hit’ in battle will eliminate it. 
 
Game Scale: Each military unit represents from 
10,000 to 15,000 infantry or from 7000 to 10,000 
cavalry. Each Game Turn represents one or two 
months (depending on the time of the year). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Replacement Parts: If any of these parts are missing 
or damaged, we apologize for the inconvenience and 
ask that you contact us to receive any replacement 
parts needed. 
Please send your correspondence to: 
Phalanx Games 
Attn.: A House Divided 
Bochumer Str. 122 
45529 Hattingen 
Germany 
 
Veteran 
 
Crack 
 
 
Veteran 
 
Crack 
Military Units 
 
Control 
Game Markers 
Entrench-
ment 
 
Battlefield
Fax: +49-(0)2324-80376 
E-Mail: UBlennemann@aol.com

2.0 Setting up the 1861 
Campaign Game 
1. Begin by removing the Advanced Game pieces 
from play. They include: the three Leaders (Lee, 
Grant, and Sherman); the four orange Foreign 
Intervention units; and the three Confederate 
Militia Infantry units with the names of Border 
States on them (Missouri, Kentucky, and 
Maryland). 
2. Both players divide up their remaining units by 
type, keeping their own units close at hand and the 
game’s markers in a common area that both 
players can easily reach. 
3. Place the wooden Game Turn marker in the 07 
(July) 1861 space on the Game Turn Track at the 
southwest corner of the board. 
4. Place a Union Control marker in the 34 box, and a 
Confederate Control marker in the 29 box, of the 
track in the southeast corner of the board. (See 
Rule 7.1, Maximum Army Size.) 
5. The Union player has 24 Militia Infantry units. Set 
aside 12 of them; they enter play later through 
Union Army Drafts (as per Rule 7.2). 
6. Both players place their lone 1-
value Militia Cavalry unit in the 
Recruitment Pool – an area to one 
side that is clearly visible and 
accessible to both players at all 
times. (Consider using the Atlantic Ocean as the 
Recruitment Pool area.) 
7. Both players then take all of their remaining 
Militia Infantry units and place them on the board 
as listed below. Only Militia Infantry units setup 
on the board in this scenario! Both players’ 
Veteran and Crack units are set aside and enter 
play through Promotion. 
Union Setup (12 Militia Infantry units): 
Two in: 
Washington (DC) 
One each in: 
Philadelphia (Pennsylvania), 
New York (New York), 
Harper’s Ferry (Virginia), 
Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania), 
Columbus (Ohio), 
Cincinnati (Ohio), 
Indianapolis (Indiana), 
Bloomington (Illinois), 
Cairo (Illinois), and 
St. Louis (Missouri). 
Confederate Setup (8 Militia Infantry units): 
One each in: 
Manassas Junction (Virginia), 
Fredericksburg (Virginia), 
Front Royal (Virginia), 
Charleston (South Carolina), 
Mobile (Alabama), 
Nashville (Tennessee), 
Memphis (Tennessee), and 
Springfield (Missouri). 
3.0 Sequence of Play 
A House Divided is played in a series of Game 
Turns, each representing one month (or two in 
winter) of real time. 
Each Game Turn is divided into two Player Turns. 
The Union has the first Player Turn each Game Turn, 
followed by the Confederate Player Turn. After both 
players have completed their respective Player Turns, 
the Game Turn marker is advanced one box along the 
Turn Track at the outer edge of the game board and 
the next Game Turn begins. Victory is checked at the 
end of the last Game Turn, 06 (June) 1865 – the 40th 
Game Turn. 
Each Player Turn consists of the following four 
Segments, conducted in this exact order: 
1. Movement 
2. Combat 
3. Promotions 
4. Recruitment 
All actions in one Segment must be finished before 
the next Segment begins. For example, the Union 
player cannot move any of his units after he has 
begun a battle – movement must be completed before 
combat. 
Example: The first turn of the game is 07 (July) 1861. 
The North has the first Player Turn which consists of four 
Segments: The Northern player moves, then fights any combat 
that is a result of that movement, then promotes units, and finally 
recruits Militia units. 
Once the North has finished its Player Turn, the South moves, 
then fights, then promotes, and finally recruits. 
When both the North and South Player Turns are complete, the 
July 1861 Game Turn is over and the next turn – 08 (August) 
1861 – begins. 

4.0 Movement 
A player can move his units during his Movement 
Segment. 
Stacking: There is no limit to the number of units a 
player might have in a single box. Players are always 
free to inspect their opponent’s forces at any time. 
Procedure: In order to move, the player rolls one 
six-sided die. The number rolled is the number of 
Marches that he may make in the turn. However, if 
he rolls a 1, he receives 2 Marches. 
 
A March consists of activating a box containing 
friendly units. When a box is activated by a March, 
you may move any or all of your units in that box to 
other boxes that are connected along transportation 
lines and possibly entrench those that remain (see 
4.3). Units may move to different boxes as part of a 
single March provided they started that March 
together in the same box. 
March Distances: The distance a unit may move 
during a single March depends on the unit type and 
Transportation Line it moves along. 
Infantry may move 
one box along a road 
or unfriendly railroad, 
or two boxes along a 
river or friendly 
railroad (see the 
sidebar for a definition 
of “friendly”). An 
Infantry unit may not 
move along two 
different types of 
transportation line as part of the same March. 
An Infantry unit could not move one box along a railroad and 
another box along a river as part of the same March. 
Cavalry may move two boxes along a road 
and/or railroad (friendly or unfriendly), or river. 
A Cavalry unit may combine movement along 
roads and railroads, but a Cavalry unit may not 
combine movement along rivers with movement 
along any other type of transportation line. 
Unit March Limit: The moving player may 
distribute his Marches as he sees fit; but no unit may 
participate in more than two Marches in a single turn. 
Enemy Units: A unit may move into a box 
containing enemy units, but it must stop there 
(exceptions: see 4.4 and 4.5). This causes a battle in 
that player’s ensuing Combat Segment. 
Example: The Union Crack Cavalry and Militia Infantry units 
begin in Shreveport. The Union Veteran Infantry unit begins in 
Vicksburg. Using three Marches, here is what happened: 
 
1st March: The box at Shreveport is activated by a March, so the 
Cavalry and Infantry units there may move. The Cavalry unit 
moves two boxes (the white solid arrow) by road and railroad to 
Vicksburg. The Infantry unit moves one box by road (its 
maximum rate, as show by the yellow solid arrow) to Monroe. 
2nd March: The Militia Infantry unit now in Monroe moves one 
box by rail (the yellow dashed line) to Vicksburg. It cannot 
continue moving by rail a second box (to Jackson) because the 
railroad leading to and from Vicksburg is not a friendly railroad. 
That is, Monroe and Jackson are not Union controlled (or you 
would see Union Control markers in those boxes). 
3rd March: With all three units now in Vicksburg, it is activated 
with a March. The Veteran Infantry unit moves two boxes by river 
to Alexandria (the gold dotted line). The Cavalry unit moves by 
rail to McComb (the white dotted line). Note that the Militia 
Infantry unit cannot move as it has already participated in two 
Marches this turn (the maximum allowed). 
 
Play Tip: If it will help you remember, you can denote friendly 
units that have already moved this Segment by rotating them 90 
degrees (for one March) and 180 degrees (for two). Rotate them 
back at the end of your Movement Segment. 
for Marches 
What is a 
“Friendly Railroad?“ 
A friendly railroad is a rail 
line connecting two 
friendly-controlled boxes. 
An unfriendly railroad is 
any other railroad. 
See Rule 8.0 for 
information on capturing 
and controlling boxes. 
Movement Chart 
Unit Type 
Transportation Line 
Move Length
by road 
1 box 
by unfriendly railroad 
1 box 
by friendly railroad 
by river 
by any* 
* A Cavalry unit may only combine movement along roads 
and railroads. 

4.1 First Game Turn Restriction 
Both sides were very disorganized when the Civil 
War began. Because of this, neither player rolls the 
die for Movement on the first Game Turn. 
Each side automatically receives two Marches on the 
first Game Turn. 
4.11 [Optional] Additional First Turn 
Restrictions 
Both sides suffered organizational problems in the 
opening days of the Civil War. Neither side wished to 
violate the neutrality of Kentucky (who both sides 
were courting to be an ally), and the Union Navy was 
weak and scattered. 
To further represent both sides’ initial problems, 
the following additional limitations are in effect 
on the first Game Turn only: 
• A unit moves only one box per March along 
a river, instead of two. 
• No unit may enter Kentucky (any tan box). 
• The Union may not perform any Sea 
Movement (4.6). 
4.12 [Optional] Kentucky Neutrality 
The political implications of Kentucky’s neutrality at 
the outset of the war cannot be overstated. Both sides 
desperately wanted Kentucky’s willing cooperation in 
the war. Thus, until September of 1861, its territory 
was inviolable. Finally, the Confederates ‘invaded’ 
Kentucky, after which the Union responded. 
• Union units may not enter Kentucky until the 
Union 01/02 (Jan/Feb) 1862 Player Turn. 
• The Union is immediately free of this 
restriction if a Confederate unit enters (or 
‘passes through’) any box in Kentucky during 
1861. 
4.2 The Potomac 
River Restriction 
Due to the presence of 
Union naval forces, 
Confederate units may 
never move along the 
Potomac River (the river 
connecting Washington 
and Fredericksburg). 
Only the Union player 
may use the Potomac 
River. 
4.3 Entrenchment 
Instead of moving, units may use their March 
activation to entrench at their location. Entrenchment 
improves a unit’s ability to survive in battle. 
March Cost for Entrenchment: It costs one March 
to entrench any or all friendly units in a Recruitment 
City (any box with a number in it, whether blue or 
red). Units must spend two Marches to entrench in 
any other box. 
• Units may not entrench in a box containing enemy 
units. 
• The same March may be used to move some units 
out of a box and entrench the others in it. 
Examples: The Recruitment City of Cincinnati is activated with a 
March. Of the five units there, three are moved away while the 
remaining two use that March activation to remain in Cincinnati 
and entrench. 
At Manassas Jct., which is not a Recruitment City, a player must 
spend two Marches in a single friendly Movement Segment to 
entrench any or all of the units there. This means that a unit 
could not move into and entrench at Manassas Jct. in a single 
Player Turn – that would consume three Marches and a unit can 
only have two Marches spent on it during a single Player Turn. 
Entrenchment Markers: To show 
that units are entrenched, place an 
Entrenchment marker on top of them. 
(Feel free to make more of 
Entrenchment Markers if you run out 
of them during play.) 
• Units moving into a box containing friendly 
entrenched units do not automatically become 
entrenched. Place these units above the 
Entrenchment marker in that box. 
• If a units moves, its entrenchment status is lost. 
Permanent Entrenchment Locations: Any unit that 
begins a Player Turn in one of the following boxes is 
automatically considered entrenched: 
movement 
only! 
Washington (DC) 
Richmond (Virginia) 
Fort Monroe (Virginia) 
Vicksburg (Mississippi). 
These locations are indicated on the map as 
Permanent Entrenchments (Washington D.C. is 
shown in the Potomac River Restriction illustration, 
4.2). 

4.4 Cavalry Jump Moves 
Cavalry unit, making a two-box March, 
may move through a box containing 
enemy units within the limitations and 
restrictions listed below. This is called a 
Jump Move. 
• A Cavalry unit may make only one Jump Move 
during its owner’s Movement Segment. 
• It may not end a Jump Move in a box containing 
enemy units. 
• It may not Jump Move through a box containing 
enemy Cavalry. Cavalry ‘screen’ the box they’re 
in and prevent enemy Cavalry Jump Moves 
through it. 
• It may not make this special cavalry Jump Move 
when moving by river (see 4.5, below). 
4.5 Union River Jump Moves 
Any Union unit (including Cavalry) may make this 
special Jump Move only when moving down a river. 
The downriver direction is marked by pale blue 
arrows inside the river. 
• The South may not make river Jump Moves. 
• The North may not make these Jump Moves when 
moving up a river. 
• River Jump Moves have the same restrictions as 
cavalry Jump Moves (4.4) except that units may 
move through boxes containing enemy cavalry. 
 
Example: The Union Player wishes to penetrate the Confederate 
lines. The Union Militia Cavalry in the Fts Henry & Donelson box 
cannot Jump Move to the Corinth box through the Humbolt box 
because of the presence of Confederate Cavalry at Humbolt. 
The Cavalry cannot Jump Move through Pittsburg Landing to 
Corinth because a part of the Jump Move would be by river. 
The Cavalry can Jump Move to the Decatur box through the 
Nashville box, occupied only by Confederate Infantry, by using 
the railroad. 
The Union Militia Infantry at Fts Henry & Donelson cannot follow 
the Cavalry to Decatur with a river Jump Move (4.5) through 
Pittsburg Landing because that move would be going up river. 
4.6 Union Sea Movement 
The North, due to its naval 
superiority throughout the 
war, may move units via 
Sea Movement between 
Port boxes. Port boxes are 
those marked with an 
anchor symbol in them. 
Important: Each unit 
moved by sea counts as one 
March. 
Baltimore is a Port box. 
Example: Three units conducting Sea Movement count as three 
Marches, even if they all started in the same port box. 
Procedure: To conduct Sea Movement, that unit 
must have started the Union Movement Segment in a 
Port box. It may move by sea directly to any other 
Port box currently controlled by the Union (see Rule 
8.0 for the definition of “control”). 
• A unit that conducts Sea Movement may not 
conduct any other movement that Movement 
Segment, but it may entrench (4.3) if in a 
Recruitment City by using a second March. 
4.7 Union Naval Invasions 
If the Union player rolls a ‘6’ for Marches during his 
Movement Segment, he may conduct Naval Invasion 
Movement that turn. 
Procedure: Naval Invasion 
Movement is conducted like 
Sea Movement (in 
particular, each unit moved 
counts as one March), 
except that the Union units 
being moved must have 
started the Union 
Movement Segment in 
Washington D. C. 
Invasion Opportunities 
The Union player is not 
required to conduct a 
naval invasion if he rolls 
a ‘6,’ but it is a good idea 
to take the opportunity. If 
he does not invade, he 
cannot save that 
opportunity for a later 
Union Player Turn.
Units conducting Naval Invasion Movement may 
move to any Confederate-controlled port. If the port 
is empty, the Union units freely occupy it; if 

Confederate units are in that Port box, a battle must 
be fought in the ensuing Union Combat Segment. 
• Units making Sea Invasions may not conduct 
further movement, but if the invaded Port box 
is empty and a Recruitment City, they may 
entrench (4.3) by using a second March. 
• Units making Sea Invasions may invade 
separate Port boxes. 
• Note that retreating from a Naval Invasion battle 
must conform to the regular rules of retreat (5.4) 
unless Optional Rule 5.41 (Union Naval 
Evacuations) is being used. 
4.71 [Optional] Fort Monroe 
Geography dictated that the guns of Fort Monroe 
controlled access to the Chesapeake Bay. The 
Confederacy would have been in a good defensive 
position on its capital’s strategic right flank had it 
managed to capture Fort Monroe. 
If the Confederates control Fort Monroe, then 
the Union player may not conduct Naval 
Invasions (4.7) against either Yorktown or 
Norfolk. 
The Union player may, of course, conduct a 
Naval Invasion of Fort Monroe itself. 
 
4.8 [Optional] Crack Infantry 
Known as ‘Foot Cavalry,’ the best of the 
infantry soldiers could often maintain the 
pace of their horse-mounted brethren. 
Better able to endure the hardships of war, 
these Crack troops could maintain 
cohesion on long and tiring marches, and 
their deeds are legendary in the annals of the American 
Civil War. 
Crack Infantry units move like Cavalry units – that is, 
up to two boxes by road or railroad (friendly or 
unfriendly), and may combine road and rail 
movement in the same March. 
Unlike Cavalry units though, Crack Infantry units 
cannot make (or block) a Cavalry Jump Move (4.4). 
 
4.9 [Optional] Union Rail Movement 
Bonus 
The Union railroad system was vastly superior to the 
South’s. The Union had more track at standard gauges, 
more cars and engines, and a better ability to maintain 
them. Big business was with the North, and the railroads 
were the biggest business of their day. Prior to the Civil 
War, the largest single employer was not the government 
(including the armed forces); it was the Pennsylvania 
Railroad, which employed over 50,000 people! 
Union units may move three boxes per March if 
entirely along friendly rail lines. 
5.0 Combat 
If, at the end of player’s Movement Segment, a box 
contains units from both sides, a battle must be 
fought (exception: see 5.4, Cavalry Withdrawal 
before Combat). The player who moved into the box 
(i.e., whose Player Turn it is) is called the attacker, 
while the other player is the defender. 
• Battles take place one at a time, in any order the 
attacker chooses. 
• One battle must be completely finished before the 
next battle begins. 
Procedure: Both players take their 
units out of the box and place the 
Battlefield marker there to remind 
them of the battle’s location. This is 
the ‘Battle Box.’ 
The two armies line up opposite each other in some 
convenient area off to the side of the board and take 
turns firing at each other in a series of Battle Rounds. 
• Both players fire in each Battle Round, but the 
defender fires first. Thus, the defender could 
eliminate some attacking units before they can fire 
back that Round. 
• Battle Rounds continue until one player wins the 
battle – either by eliminating all of the enemy 
units in the contested box or by compelling those 
enemy units to retreat (5.4). 
5.1 Resolving Battle Rounds 
During a Battle Round, each of a player’s units at that 
battle may fire once. 
Setup Procedure: At the beginning of a player’s part 
of a Battle Round, he must announce the targets of all 
his fire before any dice are rolled. Each unit fires at 
one enemy unit, of the firing player’s choice. He may 
not change his announced fire during the Round. 
Example: If three Militia Infantry units are all assigned to fire at a 
single Veteran unit, and the Veteran unit is eliminated after the 
first two shots, the remaining Militia Infantry unit may not change 
its target; it must ‘waste’ its fire this Round at the already 
designated Veteran unit. 
If the firing player has more units in the battle than 
the enemy, the extra units may be used to ‘gang up’ 

on enemy units and take additional shots at them. 
However, each enemy unit must be fired upon by at 
least one friendly unit if possible. 
Firing Procedure: To resolve a shot, roll one die. If 
the number rolled is equal to or less than the Combat 
Value of the firing unit, the enemy unit has been hit. 
Otherwise, the shot is a miss and has no effect. 
Example: When a Veteran Cavalry unit (with its 
Combat Value of 2) fires, it hits if the player rolls a 
1 or 2. 
Suffering a Hit: When the targeted unit is hit, it is 
flipped over to its reduced side (the side with red 
printing). If it is already reduced, it is eliminated. 
Eliminated Militia units are placed in the Recruitment 
Pool; eliminated Veteran and Crack 
units are returned to the owning 
player’s stock. 
• Except for being one hit always 
from elimination, reduced units do 
not differ in any other way from full-strength 
units. 
5.2 [Optional] Like Battlefield Targets 
During the American Civil War, the rifle had made old-
fashioned cavalry charges obsolete. Cavalry evolved into a 
mounted infantry role on the battlefield, quick to harass 
and retreat from large bodies of enemy infantry. Too 
valuable to lose, cavalry units were usually kept out of 
harm´s way whenever possible on Civil War battlefields 
where infantry´s long-range firepower was now what 
decided the day. 
In battles, a player’s choice of targets is more 
realistically restricted. 
Procedure: Infantry units may not fire at enemy 
Cavalry units unless every enemy infantry unit has 
already been selected as a target that Round. Even 
then, the Infantry units may always choose to ignore 
any enemy Cavalry units as targets and instead start 
ganging up on enemy Infantry units. 
Cavalry units, however, must fire at enemy Cavalry 
units, even if every enemy Infantry unit has not 
already been selected as a target that Round. Cavalry 
units may not gang up on enemy Cavalry or Infantry 
units until after every Cavalry unit has been selected 
as a target that Round. 
5.3 Battle Die Roll Modifiers 
The following factors may make units easier or 
harder to hit by modifying Combat die rolls. 
5.31 Entrenchment (-1) 
Units in Entrenchments (see 4.3) receive some 
protection from enemy fire during a battle. 
When firing at an entrenched unit, subtract one 
from the Combat Value of the firing unit. 
Example: If a Veteran Infantry unit fires at a unit in 
Entrenchment, its Combat Value would be 2, not 3, and it 
would hit that entrenched unit on a roll of 1 or 2. 
5.32 Crack Infantry Units (-1) 
In addition to its Combat Value of 3, 
Crack Infantry has a Defensive 
Value of -1. This means that units 
firing at Crack Infantry have their 
Combat Values reduced by one. 
• Even Crack Infantry is reduced when firing at 
another Crack Infantry unit. 
• Units firing at Entrenched Crack Infantry 
have their Combat Value reduced by two. 
Note that Militia (Infantry or Cavalry) and 
Veteran Cavalry units cannot hit entrenched 
Crack Infantry at all (see 5.33, below). 
5.33 Impossible Shots 
A friendly unit can fire at an enemy unit in a 
battle, even though it cannot hit it (i.e., when its 
Combat Value is reduced below 1, such as when 
firing at an entrenched or Crack Infantry unit). 
This can be important for fulfilling the 
restriction of Rule 5.1 where each enemy unit 
must be fired at by at least one friendly unit if 
possible. 
Example: In this Battle Round, the firing player has one 
Militia Cavalry unit (1 Combat Value) and three Veteran 
Infantry units (3 Combat Value) targeting two entrenched 
enemy units: one Veteran Infantry and one Crack Infantry. 
The firing player assigns his Militia Cavalry unit to fire at 
the entrenched Crack Infantry unit (even though it cannot 
possible hit it with a -2 die roll modifier). This allows him to 
concentrate all three of his Veteran Infantry units against 
the more vulnerable enemy Veteran Infantry unit, giving 
him three shots to hit it on 1s and 2s. 

5.34 Attacking Across Rivers (+1) 
Condition: Some 
boxes have one or two 
sides colored blue. T
indicates that units 
which attack throug
that side of the box 
(that is, units that 
moved into the box 
along a transportation 
line that connects to 
that side) must ‘cross 
the river.’ Units 
attacking across a river 
are more vulnerable to 
enemy fire while doing 
so. 
his 
h 
Effect: During the defender’s first two Battle 
Rounds (only, not any subsequent rounds), his 
units have their Combat Values increased by one 
when firing at units attacking across the river. 
Example: If attacked from across a river, a Veteran 
Infantry unit would fire with a Combat Value of 4 instead of 
3, hitting on a roll of 1 through 4. 
When firing at Crack Infantry unit crossing a river, a unit 
would have its Combat Value both increased and 
decreased by one, and the two effects would cancel. 
• The defender’s Reinforcements (5.5) arriving 
on Round two do receive this combat benefit. 
• Union Naval Invasions (4.7) are also treated 
as attacking across a river. 
• There is no Combat Value increase against 
the attacker’s units that reinforce a battle (see 
5.5) since they won’t arrive until after the 
defender has fired on the second Round. 
 
Players may wish to use one of the blank pieces 
included in the game to create a two-sided River 
Battle Marker (as illustrated here). Place it 
among the attacker’s line of units to separate 
those that have “crossed the river” (and are 
subject to the defender’s Combat Value 
increase) from those that did not. 
If attacking units enter the defender’s box from 
multiple directions, only those units that actually 
cross the river are subject to this rule. 
Unless attacked from the 
north or west, moving against 
enemy units in Selma would 
mean attacking across a 
river. 
5.4 Retreating from Battle 
Also beginning with the second Battle Round, either 
player may retreat his army. 
Procedure: Prior to (i.e., in lieu of) firing his units in 
a Battle Round, all of that player’s units in the Battle 
Box retreat to an adjacent box connected by a 
transportation line within the restrictions below, thus 
ending the battle. 
• All units must retreat to the same box. 
• The box retreated to must neither contain enemy 
units nor be an enemy-controlled Recruitment 
City (i.e., one with a Recruitment Value of either 
color). 
• If possible, the retreat must be to a friendly-
owned box (see 8.0), but this is not required if 
none are available. 
• Defending units may not retreat to a box from 
which the attacking units entered the battle. 
If no such boxes are adjacent to the battle, then that 
army cannot retreat and must fight to the death. 
If an army retreats, the other side immediately wins 
the battle. 
5.41 [Optional] Union Naval Evacuations 
Ironclads stole the glory in the Civil War’s naval 
battles, but it was the vast fleet of Union sailing ships 
that provided vital sea-lift capacity. Landing or 
setting sail, they were a great support to the Army. 
If a battle is occurring in a Southern Port box as 
a result of a Union Naval Invasion (4.7) or a 
Confederate attack on a Union garrison there, 
the Union units may retreat by evacuating to 
Washington D.C. (if it is Union controlled, 8.0). 
5.5 Reinforcing a Battle 
Beginning with the second Battle Round, and on 
every Battle Round thereafter, both sides may 
reinforce that battle. 
Timing: The decision to retreat from a battle (5.4) 
occurs before the decision to reinforce it. A player 
cannot reinforce a battle that he just retreated from. 
Procedure: Prior to firing his units in a Battle 
Round, a player may reinforce that battle with one 
unit from each adjacent, connected box. 
River / Invasion 
Round 1 
Defender fires at 
+1 Combat Value 
River / Invasion 
Round 2 
Defender fires at
+1 Combat Value

• Reinforcing is a function combat, not movement 
(4.0). No Marches are spent to reinforce a battle. 
• Units that have already fought in a battle that 
Player Turn (regardless of their victory or defeat) 
cannot reinforce another battle during that same 
Player Turn. 
• The attacker may not reinforce his battle with 
units from a box also containing enemy units. 
• The defender may reinforce from a box containing 
enemy units, but must leave a ‘screening force’ 
there of as many friendly units in the box moved 
from as there are enemy units in that box. 
• A player may not reinforce a battle if all of his 
units at that battle have already been eliminated or 
retreated (5.4); that battle is over. 
• Defending units that reinforce a battle fought at a 
Permanent Entrenchment (e.g., Vicksburg) are not 
considered entrenched during that battle. 
5.6 Cavalry Withdrawal before Combat 
If the defending player has only Cavalry units in a 
box when the attacker designates it for a battle, those 
Cavalry units may withdraw before any Battle 
Rounds are conducted. 
• Cavalry withdrawal before combat does not count 
as losing a battle. (See Rule 6.0, Promotions.) 
Procedure: Cavalry may withdraw to any adjacent 
box except enemy-controlled Recruitment Cities, 
boxes containing enemy units, or boxes from which 
enemy units entered the battle. 
Exception: Cavalry units may not withdraw if all of 
the attacking units are also Cavalry units. This ‘pins’ 
the defending Cavalry unit(s) in place long enough to 
start a battle. 
5.7 Recovery from Battle Damage 
After a player’s Battle Segment is over, all units that 
are flipped to their reduced (red number) sides are 
returned to their full-strength (white number) sides. 
5.71 [Optional] Refitting the Army 
This rule recreates the historical lulls after many 
Civil War battles. It required some considerable time 
and energy to rest, regroup, refit, recover stragglers, 
and incorporate replacements into these increasingly 
massive groups after the chaos of battle. 
Units do not recover automatically after a battle; 
they remain on their reduced (red number) side 
until Recovered. 
Players may spend a Recruitment Point (7.0) to 
recover one reduced-strength unit on the map 
(flipping it back up to its white-number side) in 
lieu of recruiting a Militia unit from the 
Recruitment Pool (as usual). 
Example: if a player had two Recruitment Points this turn, 
he could recruit two Militia units, recover two reduced units 
on the map, or do one of each (spending up to his total of 
two Recruitment Points). 
In the same manner, a March (4.0) can be spent 
to either activate a box (as usual) or recover one 
reduced unit on the board. Remember, you can 
only spend a maximum of two Marches on a 
given unit per friendly Movement Segment, and 
recovering it counts as one of them. 
• Units are always placed in their stock and 
Recruitment Pool on their full-strength side. 
Newly recruited units (7.0) are always placed 
on the board at full strength. 
Comprehensive Combat Example: 
 
As seen in the illustration, the Confederate player spends one 
March to activate the Fts. Henry & Donelson box. Both of his 
Cavalry units there move two boxes along the river (through 
Paducah) to attack Cairo. Had the Confederates invaded Cairo 
with any Infantry units in their force, the defending Cavalry unit 
there could have opted to withdraw before combat (as per Rule 
5.6). 
The defending Union Veteran Cavalry unit enjoys the advantages 
of firing first (5.0), being entrenched (5.31), defending against 

attacking units that are crossing a river (5.34), and having friendly 
reinforcements nearby (5.5). 
Round 1: The Union Cavalry unit fires at the Confederate 
Veteran Cavalry unit and hits it with a die roll of 3 – its chance to 
hit being increased by 1 during the first two Battle Rounds 
because it is firing at a unit that has crossed a river. The 
Confederate unit is flipped to its Reduced side. 
 
The Confederate player returns fire with both units. His Militia 
Cavalry unit has an Impossible Shot (5.33) and his (now 
Reduced) Veteran Cavalry unit can only hit on a die roll of 1 due 
to the enemy entrenchment. He rolls a 6 and misses completely. 
 
Round 2: The Union player can retreat at this point in lieu of 
shooting (5.4), but sensing victory he opts to stay and bring in 
reinforcements (5.5). Joining the battle are the Veteran Infantry in 
Vandalia and one of the Militia Infantry units in St. Louis (as one 
per adjacent box, per Battle Round after the First Round, is the 
reinforcement Speed Limit). 
Hoping to get lucky and win the battle outright if he can roll three 
hits, the Union player assigns his best shots (the Veteran 
Infantry) at the enemy’s Reduced Veteran Cavalry unit, and has 
his other two units gang up on the Confederate Militia Cavalry. 
All three Union units enjoy the river bonus for this, its second and 
final Battle Round of effect (5.34). The Veteran Infantry units rolls 
a 4, destroying the enemy’s Reduced Veteran Cavalry unit. 
 
The Union’s entrenched Veteran Cavalry unit rolls a 1 and hits 
the Confederate’s Militia Cavalry unit, reducing it. 
 
But the Union’s Militia Infantry unit rolls a 5 and fails to finish off 
the Confederate’s (now reduced) Militia Cavalry unit. 
 
The South is holding on by the skin of its teeth with only one 
reduced Militia Cavalry unit remaining on the battlefield. But 
never one to retreat while there still hope in the fight, the 
Confederate player gives a Rebel Yell and brings in his own 
reinforcements: the Veteran Cavalry unit from Paducah (which 
leaves no Control marker there as per Rule 8.0) and the Crack
Infantry unit is the first to arrive from Humbolt. He lines up his 
units against the defenders with the results as shown below: 
 
targets that are easier 
to hit (because they are not entrenched). 
ate Crack Cavalry misses the Union Veteran 
Infantry unit. 
Finally, the Confederate player scores a hit in the battle! 
 
The reduced Militia Cavalry takes an Impossible Shot (5.33) 
against the entrenched Veteran Cavalry. This will allow both of 
the Confederate’s best shooters to aim at 
 
The Confeder
 
[
X 

Round 3: Although his river bonus has ended, the Union player 
is not ready to give up yet. He reinforces with his last Militia 
Infantry unit from St. Louis. He assigns his Veteran Infantry 
against the Confederate’s Crack Infantry unit (it will hit on a 1 or a 
2 – as per Rule 5.32), his entrenched Veteran Cavalry unit and 
one Militia Infantry unit will try to finish off the enemy’s reduced 
Militia Cavalry unit once and for all, and the last Union Militia 
Infantry unit will take a shot at the Confederate’s Veteran Infantry 
unit. Here are the results: 
 
The Veteran Infantry unit misses because the enemy Crack 
Infantry’s -1 modifier lowers the Combat Value of units firing at it 
by one (from a 3 to a 2 in this case). 
 
 
The first unit hit and eliminated the Confederate Militia Cavalry 
unit, but since the second unit was also designated to fire at it 
this Round, that shot is simply wasted. 
 
Finally, the last Union Militia unit scores a hit against the enemy’s 
Crack Cavalry unit. 
The Confederate player will begin his Round 3 by reinforcing with 
his Veteran Infantry unit in Humbolt and the battle will rage on... 
6.0 Promotions 
Units may be Promoted at the conclusion of each 
battle (5.0) and during the Promotion Segment. 
Militia units are promoted to Veteran units, and 
Veteran units are promoted to Crack units. 
Procedure: To promote a 
unit, remove it from the 
board and replace it with a 
unit which is the same type 
(Infantry or Cavalry) at the 
next higher quality. Militia 
units are placed in the 
Recruitment Pool, Veteran 
and units are returned to 
the player’s stock. 
How to Increase your 
Cavalry Forces 
You increase your 
Cavalry forces on the 
board by promoting 
your lone Militia Cavalry 
unit, and then recruiting it 
again. 
• Each time a player wins a battle (whether 
attacking or defending), he may immediately 
promote one of his surviving units that 
participated. 
• During his Promotion Segment, the player whose 
turn it is may promote any one unit. Exception: A 
unit that was just promoted during that player’s 
Combat Segment cannot be selected; no unit can 
receive two promotions during a single Player 
Turn. 
Promoting a unit does not affect its other status. A 
promoted unit that is entrenched (4.3) or reduced 
(5.71) remains entrenched or reduced. 
 
6.1 [Optional] Combat Experience 
Drilling and parade ground maneuvers can only teach 
soldiers so much. There is no substitute for actual combat 
experience against the foe. 
A player can promote a Veteran unit 
to a Crack unit only if it is the 
victorious survivor of a battle. The 
‘free’ promotion during the 
Promotion Segment may not be used 
to raise Veteran to Crack units. 
6.2 [Optional] Confederate Replacement 
Training 
The Union and the Confederacy had a significant 
difference in army doctrine when it came to replacing 
battle losses. Unlike the Union, the Confederacy integrated 
replacements into experienced units so that new soldiers 
might learn from the old hands. 
X 
Wasted 
Shot 
[ 

Procedure: The Confederate player rolls one die 
during his Promotion Segment. On a roll of 1 or less, 
he may promote two units that turn, instead of one. 
Modifier: The Confederate player may subtract one 
from the die roll for each Confederate Veteran or 
Crack unit eliminated during battles this Game Turn. 
(In the Advanced Game, Confederate Veteran or 
Crack Infantry units lost through desertion (D.3) do 
not count.) 
7.0 Recruitment 
After all Promotions are finished, the player whose 
turn it is may conduct his Recruitment Segment. 
Procedure: To recruit, roll one die. However, if a 1 
is rolled, it is treated as a 2. 
 
The value on this Recruitment die roll is the number 
of Recruitment Points the player may spend during 
that Recruitment Segment. 
Spending Recruitment Points: One Recruitment 
Point is spent to recruit one of that player’s Militia 
units from the Recruitment Pool. 
• Both Militia Infantry and Militia Cavalry units 
may be recruited if available in the Recruitment 
Pool. 
Placing a Recruited Unit: A newly recruited Militia 
unit can only be placed in a friendly-controlled 
Recruitment City (see 8.0) that has a shield of that 
side’s color (red for Confederate; blue for Union). 
• Only one unit can be 
recruited per allowable 
Recruitment City per 
friendly Recruitment 
Segment. 
Some friendly cities, if 
captured, become 
Recruitment Cities for the 
other side. Cairo, for 
instance, is a Recruitment 
City for whichever side controls it. 
7.1 Maximum Army Size 
The numbers in the Recruitment Cities are used to 
determine the maximum allowable size of a player’s 
army. 
Procedure: The sum of all numbered shields of the 
correct color (blue for the Union, red for the 
Confederacy) in all Recruitment Cities controlled by 
that player is his Army Maximum Size. This is the 
maximum number of units that he is allowed to have 
in play at a time. 
• A player may not recruit more Militia units than 
necessary to bring him up to his Army Maximum 
Size (even if more are available) 
• If, however, the number of units a player currently 
has on the board exceeds his current Army 
Maximum Size due to the loss of a city, he is not 
required to remove any units. 
Both players’ Army Maximums should 
be shown using two Control markers 
and the numbered track in the 
southeast corner of the board. Be sure 
to keep these values current! 
for Recruitment 
Procedure: Place a Control marker in the box 
corresponding to each player’s initial Army 
Maximum size (i.e., the sum of all controlled 
Recruitment City Values). In the 1861 Campaign 
Game Scenario, this would be 29 for the Confederacy 
and 34 for the Union. 
Whenever a player captures a 
Recruitment City containing a 
shield of his color, adjust his 
Control marker upward on the 
scale; whenever a player loses a 
Recruitment City containing a 
shield of his color, adjust his 
Control marker downward 
accordingly. 
Note that if a player captures a 
neutral Recruitment City (i.e., 
one that his opponent did not 
control – specifically, those that 
begin the game in Kentucky), his enemy’s Army 
Maximum Size will not be reduced (since it was 
never previously increased for having controlled it). 
Whoever captures 
neutral Louisville first 
will raise their own 
Army Maximum Size, 
but not lower their 
o
Recruitment Cities 
A Recruitment City is a 
box that contains a 
number in a small red or 
blue shield. 
The Union recruits in 
cities with blue shields. 
The Confederates recruit 
in cities with red shields. 
pponent’s.
7.2 Union Army Drafts 
The Union player begins the 1861 
Campaign Game Scenario with only 
twelve Militia Infantry units. The 
other twelve are set aside and the 
Union player may not recruit them. 
They do not enter play until Drafted. 
Procedure: The Union player gains these additional 
Militia Infantry units over the course of three Drafts. 

11886633
R
Riioott 
• Drafts occur at the beginning of the 04 (April) 
Game Turns in 1862, 1863, and 1864. 
• Drafts occur at the beginning of the 04 (April) 
Game Turns in 1862, 1863, and 1864. 
• For each Draft, four of these Militia Infantry units 
are added to the Recruitment Pool and are 
available for the Union player to recruit on that 
turn. 
• For each Draft, four of these Militia Infantry units 
are added to the Recruitment Pool and are 
available for the Union player to recruit on that 
turn. 
Thus, after the first Draft, a total of 16 Union Militia Infantry units 
will either be in play or be available for recruitment. After the 
second Draft, the Union will have 20; and after the third, 24. 
Thus, after the first Draft, a total of 16 Union Militia Infantry units 
will either be in play or be available for recruitment. After the 
second Draft, the Union will have 20; and after the third, 24. 
 
7.3 [Optional] The Draft Riots of 1863 
The Northern draft riots, particularly in 
the city of New York, were by far the worst 
in American history. No matter how many 
times you see rioting and looting on the 
news in American cities today, those riots 
are a tea party in comparison. 
The four Militia Infantry units drafted by the Union 
in 1863 are not all added to the Recruitment Pool 
during the 04 (April) 1863 Game Turn (as per Rule 
7.2). 
Instead, one is added in 04 (April), another in 05 
(May), one more in 06 (June), and the last one in 07 
(July) of the year 1863. 
 
7.4 [Optional] Increasing Union Forces 
As the Union Army grew, so did the North´s industrial 
capacity to support it. The revolutionary manufacturing 
concept of interchangeable parts (for rifles) allowed the 
machine tool industry to arm a nation as never before. 
With most of America’s heavy industry and transportation 
lines in the North, the ever-increasing supply of war 
materiel and its ever-improving logistical support proved 
to be the cornerstone of Union victory. 
To reflect the increasing Union mobilization of 
resources, the ability of the Union to support troops 
increases with each draft. 
Procedure: After the first Draft on 04 (April) of 
1862 (see Rule 7.2), the Union may support on the 
game board (and Recruit up to) four more units than 
its Army Maximum Size (7.1). 
After the second Draft it may have four more, and 
after the third draft, another four units. 
Example: If the Union army maximum in 05 (May) 1864 is 35, up 
to 12 additional (47 total) Union units may be in play on the 
board. 
Note that this is an economic increase and not a 
political one. Therefore, the Union Army Maximum 
Size does not increase for purposes of a Confederate 
victory (see 9.0). 
 
7.5 [Optional] Historical Recruitment 
Limitations 
Even more significant than just having a larger 
population, the North enjoyed a more steady stream of 
volunteers. One reason, of course, was that the many 
immigrants coming to the North would obtain automatic 
citizenship when discharged from the Union Army, so huge 
numbers took the opportunity to enlist. The South, on the 
other hand, while managing to mobilize over 90 percent of 
its draftable white males, always suffered from chronic 
shortages of manpower. 
The Union player always receives a minimum of 3 
Recruitment Points per turn, even if he rolls a 1 or 2. 
 
The Confederate player never receives more than 4 
Recruitment Points per turn, even if he rolls of 5 or 6. 
 
 
Important: Both players may now place up to two 
newly recruited Militia units in Recruitment Cities 
with a value of 3 or more (i.e., Pittsburgh, New York, 
Philadelphia, or Richmond). 
or
for Union Recruitment
and
for Confederate Recruitment 
or

8.0 Capturing and 
Controlling Boxes 
Throughout the game, all blue boxes not controlled 
by the Confederates are controlled by (i.e., ‘friendly 
to’) the Union. All gray boxes not controlled by the 
Union are controlled by the Confederacy. All tan 
boxes (i.e., those in Kentucky) that are not controlled 
by either side are neutral and not friendly to either 
side. 
Procedure and Timing: A player ‘captures’ (‘owns’ 
and /or ‘controls’) a box by having at least one unit 
there at the end of his friendly Combat Segment. 
Just ‘passing through’ or residing in a box at the end 
of a particular March during your Movement Segment 
does not change control of that box to ‘friendly.’ 
Control of boxes only changes at the end of a player’s 
Combat Segment. 
• Once captured, a box remains under that player’s 
control until the other player recaptures it (but 
note the Cavalry unit exception below). 
Noting Control: Physically occupying a box with a 
unit at the end of a friendly Combat Segment denotes 
its current ownership. If there is a Control marker is 
in that box, remove it. 
If a player captures a tan box or a 
box of the enemy color, and later 
completely vacates that box, 
immediately place a Control (Flag) 
marker there to indicate its continued 
ownership by the vacating player. 
• Any box without a unit or Control marker in it is 
deemed to belong to its original owner (Union or 
Confederate) based on the color of that box. Tan 
boxes without Control markers are uncontrolled. 
Exception: Cavalry units alone (without infantry 
units) control a box only while they occupy it. The 
instant they completely vacate it, control reverts back 
to the box’s original color (i.e., . A player must bring 
in (or recruit) a friendly Infantry at that box in order 
to place a Control marker there and maintain 
ownership. 
Key Concept: Cavalry ‘raids’ deep into enemy territory thus 
maintain only tenuous control. However, Cavalry raids into 
enemy-controlled friendly territory will convert those spaces back 
to their natural (friendly) color. 
Example: In this 
illustration, the 
Confederates control 
St. Louis and Cairo 
as shown by the 
presence of their 
units in those 
Recruitment City 
boxes. They also 
control Ironton, as 
the Control marker 
indicates. 
Note that if the 
Infantry unit moved 
out of Cairo and the 
city was thus 
completely vacated, 
a Confederate Control marker would be placed there to indicate 
its continued Confederate control. But if the Cavalry unit was 
moved out of St. Louis and the city was left empty, no 
Confederate Control marker would be placed there. That box 
would, instead, immediately revert back to is original color and 
thus default back to Union ownership. 
9.0 Game Length 
Game Length: The game can last up to 40 Game 
Turns, from 07 (July) 1861 to 06 (June) 1865. 
The game will be generally shorter, however, because 
one player usually wins before that time. 
Game Turns are marked on the Turn Record Track 
placing the wooden Turn maker along the perimeter 
of the board. Advance this marker by one box at the 
end of each Confederate Player Turn to indicate the 
beginning of a new Game Turn. 
9.1 [Optional] Extended Game 
By mutual consent, the game length may be extended 
beyond 06 (June) 1865 to 11/12 (November / 
December) 1865, Game Turn 45. 

10.0 Victory Conditions 
Union Victory Condition: The Union player wins 
when (and if) he simultaneously controls all seven 
Confederate Recruitment Cities with a Recruitment 
Value of 2 or 3. Specifically, these cities are: 
New Orleans 
Charleston 
Wilmington 
Atlanta 
Memphis 
When the Union player captures the last of these 
Recruitment City boxes, play stops immediately, and 
the Union player wins. 
Confederate Victory Conditions: For the 
Confederate player to win, he must achieve any one 
of the following three things: 
1. Capture Washington. If the Confederate player 
gains control of Washington D.C., play stops 
immediately and the Confederate player wins. 
2. Capture (and avoid losing) sufficient Recruitment 
Cities to make the Confederate Army Maximum 
Size greater than that of the Union’s. If he does 
this, play stops immediately, and the Confederate 
player wins. 
Example: If the Confederate Army Maximum Size is 31 and 
the Union’s is 30, the Confederate player wins. 
3. Avoid a Union victory. If the Union has not 
fulfilled his victory condition by the end of Game 
Turn 40, the Confederate player wins by default. 
The South has ‘survived’ and receives recognition 
as an independent nation by the North. 
10.1 [Optional] Helping a Novice Union 
Player 
When experienced and inexperienced opponents 
play, the inexperienced player should be given the 
Union because that side is generally more able to 
recover from mistakes. 
However, an inexperienced Union player may find it 
very difficult to avoid losing in the early stages of the 
game. The following rule is suggested as an aid to 
balancing the game under these circumstances: 
The Confederate player must satisfy his victory 
conditions (above), not at any time, but at the end of 
the Union Player Turn. That is, even if the 
Confederates achieve one of their first two victory 
conditions, the Union player has his next Player Turn 
to try and undo that verdict. 
11.0 Scenarios 
In addition to the campaign game of A House 
Divided with its coverage of the entire American 
Civil War, it is possible to play out the individual 
years of the struggle and in doing so, to better see the 
evolution of its military campaigns. 
11.1 The 1861 Short Game Scenario 
If there is no time for a complete game, players may 
try this shorter version. All regular (and agreed-upon 
optional) rules are in effect, including the victory 
conditions. 
Duration: This scenario lasts for 10 Game Turns: 
from 07 (July) 1861 to 06 (June) 1862. 
Setup: Use the standard 1861 Campaign Game 
Scenario (Rule 2.0) setup. 
End of Scenario Victory Condition: At the end of 
the 10th Game Turn (06 1862), the Union player 
wins if his Army Maximum Size is at least five 
greater than the Confederate Army Maximum Size; 
failing this, the Confederate player wins. 
11.2 The 1862 – 64 Scenario Special 
Rules 
The following three scenarios for A House Divided 
provide players with additional starting and ending 
dates for playing the game. 
Starting Date: Each scenario begins on the 04 
(April) Game Turn of its year, with the Union player 
going first and drafting his Militia Infantry units for 
that year (see Rule 7.2) and adding them to his 
Recruitment Pool. 
First Turn Marches: Both players automatically 
receive only two Marches on the first Game Turn of 
these scenarios. 
Rules: These scenarios, like the 1861 Campaign 
Game, can be played at any complexity level and 
with any agreed-upon Optional Rules. 
Campaign Game Victory Conditions: Like the 
1861 Campaign Game scenario, these scenarios can 
be played to the bitter end (06 of 1865) with the usual 
victory conditions (10.0). Alternately, players may 
wish to employ the following rule to end the game at 
an earlier turn. 

11.3 The 03 (March) Ending Date Victory 
Conditions 
Players can agree to end the game at the conclusion 
of any 03 (March) Game Turn from 1862 to1864. 
Procedure: Compare the difference between the two 
Army Maximum Sizes (Union minus Confederate) 
on the following chart to determine the winner of the 
game at that point. 
If you are playing to a specific March ending date, 
you can see how well you did compared to history as 
indicated by the level of victory achieved. 
Sudden Death Victory: Note that if you are playing 
any scenario to the Campaign Game ending (i.e., 06 
of 1865 with the standard victory conditions), players 
may optionally check at the end of each March Game 
Turn to see if either side has Automatic (i.e., 
Decisive) Victory, at which point the game ends and 
that player is declared the winner. 
 
Army Maximum Size 
 
Difference in 03 March of 
Victory Level 
1862 
1863 
1864
Union Decisive 
11+ 
15+ 
19+ 
Union Marginal 
Union Pyrrhic 
Draw (Historical) 
Confederate Pyrrhic 
Confederate Marginal 6 
Confederate Decisive 5 or less 9 or less 13 or less 
 
11.4 The 1862 – 64 Scenario Setup 
Abbreviations 
Setup abbreviations for these three scenarios are as 
follows: 
Mi: Militia infantry 
Mc: Militia cavalry 
Vi: Veteran infantry 
Vc: Veteran cavalry 
Ci: Crack infantry 
Cc: Crack cavalry 
An asterisk (*) after the location name indicates that 
all the units there begin the game Entrenched (i.e., 
under an Entrenchment marker as per Rule 4.3). 
11.5 The 1862 Scenario Setup 
Fayetteville 
Newport 
Island No. 10 * 
Corinth 
Decatur 
Savannah 
Charleston (South Carolina) 
Fredericksburg 
Yorktown * 
* = Entrenched 
Confederate Army Maximum Size = 27 
Springfield, Missouri 
Ironton 
Grant (1)** 
Pensacola 
Franklin 
Port Royal * 
Gettysburg 
Gettysburg 
* Entrenched 
Control Markers: All of Kentucky, Forts Henry and 
Donelson, Sedalia, and Jefferson City. 
Union Army Maximum Size = 35 

11.6 The 1863 Scenario Setup 
Meridian 
Little Rock * 
Alexandria * 
Murfreesboro * 
Murfreesboro * 
Knoxville 
Savannah * 
Goldsboro * 
Petersburg * 
Marion 
Okolona 
Chattanooga * 
Lee (3)** 
Confederate Army Maximum Size = 23 
Fayetteville 
Thayer 
Grant (1)** 
Sherman (1)** 
St. Louis 
Memphis * 
Grand Junction 
Humbolt 
Bowling Green 
Glasgow 
Corinth * 
Norfolk * 
New Bern * 
Port Royal * 
New Orleans * 
New Orleans * 
A Note about Markers 
This scenario requires using 15 Entrenchment 
markers. The game only comes with 12. 
Therefore, you will have to make up some 
additional Entrenchment markers to establish 
the proper game setup. 
If additional markers are needed when playing 
A House Divided for any reason (such as 
Entrenchment markers in the 1863 Scenario), 
use coins or blank pieces – whatever you 
have available. 
Control Markers: All of Kentucky, Forts Henry and 
Donelson, Sedalia, Jefferson City, Springfield 
(Missouri), Newport, Island No. 10, and Pittsburgh 
Landing. 
Union Army Maximum Size = 35. (The Union starts 
with two units over their Army Maximum Size; 
Optional Rule 7.4, Increasing Union Forces, is 
recommended.) 
Important: If all Union or Confederate units of 
specific type are in play, no additional units of 
that type can be created or brought into play 
through recruitment or promotion. 
This means that the counter mix is not a limit 
for markers but it is a limit for the other playing 
pieces (i.e., military units) in the game. 

11.7 The 1864 Scenario Setup 
Alexandria 
Meridian 
Okolona 
Selma 
Atlanta * 
Tallahasse 
Savannah 
Staunton 
Charleston (South Carolina) * 
Petersburg * 
Goldsboro 
Manassas Junction 
Wilmington 
Lee (2)** 
Fredericksburg 
Control Marker: Pensacola. 
Confederate Army Maximum=20. (The Confederates 
start with three units over this maximum amount due 
to recent Recruitment City losses.) 
Game Piece Inventory 
 
Union Confederate 
Marker
Militia Inf. 
Veteran Inf. 
Crack Inf. 
Militia Cav. 
Veteran Cav. 
Crack Cav. 
Control (Flag) 
Entrenchment 
Blank 
 
Advanced Game Pieces 
Leaders 
Foreign Interv. 
Border Militia 
Totals 
St. Joseph 
Fort Smith 
Springfield (Missouri) 
Little Rock 
Baton Rouge * 
Baton Rouge * 
New Orleans 
Memphis * 
Saint Louis 
Cairo 
Forts Henry and Donelson * 
Decatur 
Nashville * 
Murfreesboro 
Sherman (2)** Sparta 
Knoxville * 
Jacksonville (Florida) 
Brunswick 
Port Royal 
Grafton 
Grant (2)** 
New Bern * 
Norfolk * 
Control Markers: All of Kentucky, Sedalia, 
Jefferson City, Fayetteville, Natchez, Newport, Island 
No. 10, Humbolt, Grand Junction, Pittsburgh 
Landing, Corinth, Cumberland Gap, and Gainesville. 
Union Army Maximum Size = 36. (The Union starts 
with nine units over their Army Maximum Size; 
Optional Rule 7.4, Increasing Union Forces, is 
recommended.)