Content
	
4 stoves (each consisting of: 
1 plate, 4 pedestals, 1 adjusting 
knob, and 2 plastic rivets)
	
4 pans
	
4 condiment dispensers 
	
with colored lids
	
80 condiments in 4 colors (20 lemon, 
20 pepper, 20 paprika, 20 herbs)
	
25 salt crystals
	
	20 artfully weird dishes
	
4 delicious crêpes
	 13 coffee cups for the coffee breaks
	
3 cooking spoons
	
1 coffee tray for the cups
	
4 trays for finished dishes
	
1 trash can
	
2 sinks
	
9 star tokens
1 heating die
1 rule book
Rules

At first
Punch all components gently out of 
the boards. The 4 stoves are con-
structed according to the illustra-
tion, because every player should 
have their own Schmiel 2009. The 
plastic rivets for the adjusting knob 
are inserted from both sides (turn 
one rivet by 90 degrees and use 
pliers to get a firm connection of 
both rivets). Turn the knob several 
times until it moves smoothly.
Short overview
In “A la carte” the players try to be chefs cooking several 
dishes. They have to heat their stoves and must “skill-
fully” season their dishes. Finished dishes score stars and/
or victory points, burnt or over-seasoned dishes go into 
the bin and do not score anything. The first chef acquiring 
3 stars or the most victory points is the winner.
Preparation
Each player receives:
1 stove (the heating knob has to be on “zero”)
1 pan (is put on the stove)
1 coffee cup (randomly drawn) placed face-up 
(pink side must be up)
1 tray for Finished Dishes
1 crêpe
Put in the middle of the table:
the 20 dishes (sorted by colors, side with recipe 
up)
the 4 dispensers (each filled with 
15 condiments 
of one color plus 5 white salt crystals – use the 
lid colors as an aid), all superfluous condiments 
are just spare material
a sink
the coffee tray, covered with all remaining cof-
fee cups (green side up)
the heating die
the trash can
the 9 cooking stars
Nominate a First Player. The First Player chooses a 
dish and puts it in his or her pan (side with recipe up). 
All other players do the same in order. The First Player 
receives the three cooking spoons and starts the game. 
Play commences in clockwise order.
Course of the game
The active player always has three regular actions. For 
these actions he or she may choose between two options:
	
1. Heating of the stove (roll dice)
	
2. Seasoning of the dish
He or she may combine the actions in any order, e.g. 
three times seasoning, or three times heating, or any 
combination of heating and seasoning. After each action 
the player to the left takes one spoon from the active 
player. When all three actions are used up, it is the next 
player’s turn. He or she now is the owner of the three 
spoons.
Note: The spoons are used to count the used actions of 
the active player. So the next player in order is guarding 
the correct use of the active player’s three actions. You 
may also use the spoons to beat on the table in an irritat-
ing manner to remind the active player to speed up play.
Any player may choose to take a coffee break in his or her 
turn by using one of his or her coffee cups. This does not 
cost one of the three regular actions (see also point 3, “cof-
fee breaks”).
1. Heating of the stove 
To finish a dish, the player has to heat his or her stove up 
to a certain level of heat (exception: dishes served cold). 
The required heating levels are printed in green on the 
recipes. As long as the stove is within the scope of the 
green numbers, the dish is cooked in the correct way. As 
soon as the player reaches the heating level written in 
red, the dish is burned. 
To heat, the player rolls the heating die. If a number is 
rolled, the player has to heat up his or her stove for as 
much levels as the rolled number.
Additionally there are three special symbols on the die:
	
	 all players heat up their stove for one level.
	 the player may choose to heat up his or her stove 
	 by 1, 2, or 3 levels.
	 the player draws a coffee cup from the tray and 
	 places it face-up before him or her. If the 
	 drawing pool is depleted, he steals one cup from 
another player (it is not allowed to steal cups picturing 
victory points, though).
The stove never can be heated higher than level “7” (any 
surplus numbers rolled on the die are ignored in this 
case).
2. Seasoning of the dish 
To finish a dish, the player has to season it in his or her 
pan. The required condiments are pictured on the recipe 
side. The player has to season his or her dish with at least 
the number of the pictured condiments. He or she may 
have more condiments than pictured. However, as soon 
as the player has three or more condiments of the same 
color in his or her pan, the dish is over-seasoned and 
unusable. Also 3 salt crystals (white condiment) in a pan 
over-season a dish.
To season a dish, the player takes the dispenser of an 
appropriate color and tries to get the condiments into 
his or her pan. While seasoning, the dispenser has to be 
placed over the pan in a single movement with its open-
ing down and then returned back again. The speed of 
the movement does not matter. All condiments falling 
out of the dispenser in this movement, are placed in the 
pan (even those which missed the pan). It is allowed 
to pause over the pan for a short moment. The player 
may shake the dispenser before the movement. It is not 
Example: Materials for one player
stove
pan
coffee cup
crêpe
tray for 
Finished Dishes
Image side:
Recipe side:
Dish breakdown
 Victory points
Illustration
Name of dish
Required condiments
 Victory points
Burnt, if this 
heating level is reached 
Required heating level

allowed to shake or tap the dispenser while seasoning. If 
the seasoning was not successful, a new attempt may be 
started with another action.
3. Coffee break 
Once in his or her turn the player may take a coffee break 
and use one of his or her coffee cups. The player carries 
out the appropriate operation and discards the cup to the 
coffee tray face-up. The coffee break does not cost an 
action (no spoon is taken). There are the following pos-
sibilities: 
1 Victory point (3 times in the game): the player 
immediately places this token on his or her 
Finished Dishes tray. This token can not be taken 
away from this player and it is worth 1 victory 
point at the end of the game.
Exchange stoves (3 times in the game): The 
player exchanges his or her stove including pan 
and dish with another player of his or her choice. 
Both players then continue the play with their 
new stoves. Burnt or over-seasoned dishes and 
stoves with crêpes may not be exchanged.
3 Spoons (2 times in the game): The active 
player receives three additional actions. He takes 
back the three spoons and continues with his or 
her turn. However, the player is not allowed to 
use another coffee cup in the remainder of the 
turn.
Re-season (3 times in the game): The active 
player may season the dish of another player 
of his or her choice once. It is allowed to use 
any condiment, even one not on the recipe or a 
condiment from which two pieces are already in 
the pan. As usual, a dish is considered as over-
seasoned, as soon as three or more pieces of a 
single color are in the pan. Dishes without any 
condiments (Breakfast Fidel, Eau pour le café à 
la Bocuse, Crêpe) may not be seasoned at all.
Decrease heating level (2 times in the game): 
The player may reduce his or her heating level by 
1, 2, or 3 levels. This is also allowed, if his or her 
dish already was burnt (even at level “7”).
Specialities
1. A dish is finished 
A dish is considered finished, if two requirements are 
met:
- the stove has reached the required heating level 
 (range of numbers in green) and
- the required number of condiments lies in the 
pan. 
The player takes the dish out of the pan and puts it on 
his or her Finished Dishes tray, illustration side up. At 
the end of the game the dish scores the victory points 
printed on the token. The condiments (if any) are put 
into the sink. The player chooses a new dish. He or 
she must choose a dish color which he or she did not 
finish before. If this is not possible, the player may 
choose any color. The heating knob is reset to zero. 
Note: taking of a new dish does not require an action.
2. The cooking stars 
If a player manages to finish a dish per-
fectly, he or she receives a star. A dish is 
considered perfect, when the player man-
aged to season it with the exact number of condiments 
without any salt. Naturally, also the heating level has to 
be correct, as usual.
The player places the star to his or her finished dishes. 
A player does never receive stars for dishes which are 
not seasoned at all (Breakfast Fidel, Eau pour le café à la 
Bocuse, Crêpe).
3. A dish is burnt or over-seasoned 
Whenever a dish was spoiled, it has to be removed from 
the stove. However, this does happen within the turn of 
the appropriate player only. So, whenever a dish was 
over-seasoned by an “attentive” opponent, the dish stays 
in the pan of the player until it is his or her turn again. 
The same goes for burnt dishes. 
The spoiled dish is placed on the 
trash bin card, the condiments (if 
any) come into the sink. The player 
chooses a new dish. He or she must 
choose a dish color which he or she 
did not finish before. If this is not 
possible, the player may choose any 
color. The heating knob is reset to 
zero. Again, taking of a new dish 
does not require an action.
4. Refill dispensers 
A condiment dispenser has to be 
refilled, as soon as it is empty or if 
only salt crystals remain inside. All condiments of the 
dispenser’s color are taken from the sink are put back 
into the dispenser bottle. The number of salt crystals 
should be 5 again - only if there is not enough left in the 
sink to refill, it may be less salt.
Tray for coffee cups
Drawing 
pool
Discard
Example of finished dish
Condiments
Heating 
level
Example for seasoning
correct
wrong
wrong
correct

5. Prepare a crêpe
The active player may decide to put a crêpe into his or 
her pan instead of a regular dish. 
Notes: Preparation of a crêpe is a demanding task, so 
it is not possible to take any coffee breaks as long as a 
crêpe is inside the pan.
Each player may finish (or burn) only one crêpe per 
game.
The following special rules apply for the prepara-
tion of a crêpe:
The player places his or her crêpe with its recipe 
side up into the pan.
This ends the turn of the player immediately.
All remaining spoons go to the next player in 
order.
All his or her remaining actions in this turn are 
lost.
As soon as it is the player’s turn again, he or she 
will try to prepare the crêpe.
Before the try the player has to roll the heating 
die (the first action). The adjusting knob is then 
turned up according to the die result. If a coffee 
cup is rolled, the player takes one cup as usual, 
but is not allowed to use it.
Then the player has up to two attempts to turn 
over the crêpe (action 2 and 3). Turning means: 
the player takes the pan, flicks the crêpe up and 
tries to catch it again with the pan so that the im-
age side of the crêpe is facing up.
After each attempt one of three situations will oc-
cur:
The crêpe lands with its image side up and is 
therefore finished. The heating level does not 
matter, as long as the “7” was not reached yet 
(thus, even “0” is valid!). The player places the 
crêpe to his or her other Finished Dishes and 
chooses a new dish for the pan. The player’s 
turn ends immediately and the next player’s turn 
starts.
The turning of the crêpe does not work twice 
(the crêpe lands beside the pan or with the recipe 
side up. The player‘s turn ends and the next 
player’s turn starts. In his or her next turn, the 
player will heat and then try to turn over the 
crêpe again.
Heating level “7” was reached, thus the crêpe 
is burnt and spoiled. It goes to the trash bin and 
the player chooses a new dish for the pan. The 
player’s turn ends immediately and the next 
player’s turn starts.
End of game
“A la carte” ends, when:
a player is unable to place a new dish in his or 
her pan or
a player has finished 5 dishes (crêpes do count 
as dishes) or
a player has collected 3 stars*.
The players count their victory points. The player with 
the most victory points wins. In case of a tie, all tied 
players win. Placements of the other players are also 
calculated by their victory points.
*If a player was able to collect 3 stars, he or she is the 
sole winner. This player’s victory points do not matter in 
this case, but the victory points of the other players are 
used to calculate their placements.
Credits
Designer: Karl-Heinz Schmiel
Illustration and Graphic: Christof Tisch
Cover Illustration: Jochen Eeuwyk
Editor and additional Layout: Heiko Eller
With the collaboration of: Selami Ileman, Harald Bilz, 
Oliver Erhardt, Christoph Lipsky, Petra Becker, Michael 
Kröhnert
Special thanks to: Family Trieb, the Spielekreis Spielm-
ilben, the kids from Kinderhaus Harthof, the participants 
of the “Gathering of Friends”
Dish overview
Elephant Trunk Dressed with Spinach Leaves
Kipper with Egg in Spinach Coat
Rooster in Wine Sauce
Hippo in Burgundy Wine
Bavarian Veal Sausage Sweet-and-Sour
Bavarian Spam Hawaiian-Style
Oxtail Au Naturel
Sour Ends in Cream Sauce
Preparation of a crêpe
Recipe side
(not turned-over)
Picture side
(turned-over)