G a m e
R u l e s

Introduction and Overview
It is 1882 and the Old Ones are already here. They arrived seven hundred years ago and have been ruling the planet ever since. 
The majority of people just get on with their lives, accepting their monstrous rulers. However, there is a growing band of 
revolutionaries who wish to free mankind from slavery. These freedom fighters call themselves the Restorationists. A secret war 
has already broken out between the Restorationists and forces loyal to the Old Ones. The invention of dynamite has changed 
the balance of power and a lone assassin now has the capacity to destroy an Old One. In this shadow world of assassins, 
informers, police agents and anarchists nobody is quite sure who is who and which side they fight for.
The game’ A Study in Emerald’ draws its cental plot from the award winning short story penned by Neil Gaiman, in which 
the worlds of Sherlock Holmes and H.P. Lovecraft are combined to telling effect. Additional details have been drawn from the 
history of the time. The nineteenth century was a time of unrest, with many colourful characters fighting both for and against 
the authorities. ‘A Study in Emerald’ is the outcome of the merging of these three worlds.
Each player will be assigned a secret identity, either Restorationist or Loyalist. Who you are determines what you will score 
points for in the game. Restorationists score points for assassinating the Old Ones (called Royalty in the game), while the 
Loyalists are aiming to identify and eliminate the Restorationists.
You will begin the game with your own deck of cards, from which you will draw a hand of five. These cards allow you to 
perform a range of actions, many of which are associated with the placing and removal of Influence cubes. Influence is the 
means by which you gain more cards from the board. Your cards cycle so you will get to use them repeatedly.
Your strategy will be shaped by the cards you gain. Some will give you additional agents, while others grant special powers. You 
need to be careful not to give your identity away too quickly, as this will allow your opponents to target you. 
At the end of the game players reveal which side they are on. The player with the lowest number of victory points inflicts a 
penalty on all of the players on the same side. Thus you must make the effort to work out each player’s identity, otherwise you 
could lose the game through the incompetency of a fellow player.
‘A Study in Emerald’ is for two to five players and should take around sixty minutes to play.
10 Starting Cards
S 002
S 005
One Victory Point Disc
10 Agents
10 Influence Cubes
Player Pieces
There are five sets of player pieces in 
different colours. Each set is comprised of:
Game Components
As well as this rule book, A Study in Emerald also contains the pieces and cards outlined below.

9 City Cards
9 Royalty Cards
Gloriana
66 Game Cards
Bismarck
6 Secret Identity Cards
If you have less than three agents 
on the board, place agents until you 
have three agents on the board.
LOYALIST
The game ends immediately.
RESTORATIONIST
Six Zombie Pieces
One Sanity Die
Cards
Other Pieces
Game Board
Royalty Slot
Victory Point Track
Game Card Space
Limbo
Loyalist Track
Restorationist Track
City Box
15 Sanity Tokens
Two Track Markers

Starting the Game
Place the board in the centre of the table.
Take the nine City cards and place one in each Game Card space on the board, so 
that the name on the card matches the name of the city, i.e. place the Berlin card in 
the Berlin Game Card space. For the moment the cards remain face-up.
Take the nine Royalty cards and place one in each Game Card space on the board, 
as indicated on the card, i.e. Gloriana is placed in the London Game Card space. 
Once again, for the moment the cards remain face-up.
Now shuffle the Game cards. Draw and place a number of cards in each Game 
Card space on the board according to the number of players.
Three or two players - three cards per space.
Four players - four cards per space.
Five players - five cards per space.
These cards should be placed face-down. In each Game Card space you need to 
take the City card, the Royalty card and the Game cards and shuffle them together, 
making sure they are all face-down. Once you have shuffled them place them face-
down in the space. Finally, turn the top card of each stack face-up. 
If you turn over a Royalty card then slide it to the top/bottom of the space, so that 
it lies in the Royalty Slot. You then turn over the next card.
Left you can see part of the board set out for a five player game. Five Game cards have 
been added to the City and Royalty cards in each Game Card space (3). All seven cards 
have been shuffled together, making sure they are all face-down. The top card in each 
deck has then been flipped face-up. The card in Rome is a Royalty card, so is moved to 
the Royalty Slot. The next card is then turned face-up (4).
Place one Track marker on the zero space of the Restorationist track and one 
marker on the zero space of the Loyalist track.
Each player now selects a colour and takes the set of matching pieces and cards. 
You should have ten Agent pieces, ten Influence cubes, one Victory Point disc and 
ten Starting cards. 
Take five of your Influence cubes and place them in the area on the board known 
as ‘Limbo’. The remaining five cubes stay with you. 
Your ten Agent pieces and five Influence cubes form your available stock.
Place your Victory Point disc on the zero space of the Victory Point track.
Each player starts with a set of ten Starting cards. You shuffle your cards and place 
them in front of you, forming your own personal draw deck. You then draw the 
top five cards to make your starting hand.
Baoht Z’uqqaMogg
Rhogog
Irene Adler
Replace any agent with 
one of your agents.
Bismarck
Rhogog

Shuffle the six Secret Identity cards and deal out one to each player. You should look at the card you have been dealt but keep it 
secret from your fellow players. This card tells you which side you are on, which will either be Restorationist or Loyalist. Place 
the remaining Secret Identity cards to one side without examining them.
Each player takes three Sanity tokens and places them on top of their Secret Identity card.
Randomly determine who will be the first player. Going clockwise from the first player each player places one of his or her 
Agents in one of the City spaces. Once each player has done this repeat the process so that all players start with two Agent 
pieces on the board. You can have an agent in the same City space as another agent. You can have more than one of your agents 
in the same city.
Place the six Zombie pieces and the Sanity die within easy reach.
You are now ready to start playing ‘A Study in Emerald’.
Sample game setup 
for five players

A Short Interlude About Cards.
There are a lot of cards in this game, marked with a range of symbols and text. 
Before embarking on learning how to play the game it is useful to know a little bit 
about these cards and symbols. 
In all circumstances a card can only ever be played for one type of symbol on it or 
the text effect described in the text box.
Below are some examples of cards found in the game. Any symbols relating to 
actions are found on the left-hand side of the card. Symbols on the right-hand side 
relate to victory points, Bomb points and sanity.
Some cards will have an agent symbol at the top.
Many cards will have a text box at the bottom, which will describe a special action.
Left is a list of these symbols. Each one will be explained in more detail later.
Those cards that have text at the bottom will also have a sub-heading, as explained 
below:
Action - playing the card counts as one of your two actions.
Free action - playing the card does not count as one of your actions. You can 
play as many ‘Free action’ cards as you wish during your turn, including before 
performing your first action.
Interrupt - this card can be played during another player’s turn to block an action 
against you. If you do play an ‘Interrupt’ card then you draw a replacement card 
after doing so (you always start your turn with five cards in hand). 
Benefit- this card is played to modify an action in some manner.
One-use - the card it is removed from the game after being played, i.e. it can only 
ever be used once. Please note that this restriction only occurs if you use the card 
for the text effect on it. 
Any one-use card that scores you victory points in any manner should be placed 
close to your Secret Identity card after playing, so you have a means of checking 
your final victory point total.
Place one 
Influence cube
Claim one card
Retrieve one 
Influence cube
Move agent
Perform 
assassination
Move 
marker
Move Loyalist 
marker
Place one of 
your Agent 
pieces
Bomb point
Insanity – check 
sanity by rolling 
the Sanity die
Neutral victory 
points
victory points
Loyalist victory 
points
Relates to 
assassination 
of agents
Bomb points 
required to 
assassinate
The Holy Brotherhood
Take cubes from Limbo 
equal to the number of 
agents you have.
Sebastian Moran

Playing the Game
Play commences with the first player and continues clockwise. When it is your 
turn you perform two actions. Once you have completed your two actions you 
draw cards from your own draw deck to bring your hand of cards back to five. If 
you have exhausted your draw deck and you need to draw cards then you shuffle 
your discard pile to make a new draw deck.
In most cases the cards you play are placed on to your own discard pile, which will 
be next to your draw deck. There are some cards which are removed from the game 
after play or are placed on your Secret Identity card. The rules and information on 
the cards will make it clear whether a card has to be treated differently.
There are nine actions for you to choose from. You can choose any two actions to 
perform and, with one exception, can perform them in any order you choose. The 
actions you can perform are listed on the right.
These actions will now be described in more detail.
•	 Place Influence cubes
•	 Claim one card 
(can only be performed as 
your first action)
•	 Retrieve Influence cubes
•	 Move agents
•	 Move markers
•	 Perform an assassination
•	 Discard cards
•	 Card action
•	 Pass
	ACTION: PLACE 
INFLUENCE CUBES
This action allows you to place Influence cubes on the board. The main reason for 
wishing to do so is to allow you to claim cards (although in some cases it may also 
be to allow you to carry out or block an assassination).
To perform this action you must play one 
or more cards from your hand that are marked with the 
 symbol. 
You must then take a number of Influence cubes from your Available stock equal 
to the number of such symbols played and place them in ONE City space of your 
choice. There is no limit to the number of Influence cubes that can be placed in a 
City space, and cubes belonging to different players may exist in the same box. 
You cannot deliberately play more cards than you need to. The only time you 
can play fewer cubes than the number indicated is if you play a card with two 
symbols on it and you only have one available.
Monday (red) plays three cards, as 
shown. He takes four of his Influence 
cubes from his Available stock and 
decides to place them in Rome.
S 006
S 007
Fenians
ONE-USE BENEFIT: 
Gain Bomb points equal to 
the number of agents you 
have in the location.
estorationist

	ACTION: CLAIM ONE CARD
This action allows you to take one of the cards from the board and place it on to 
your discard pile. You will eventually draw the card into your hand once you have 
shuffled your discard pile to make a new draw deck.
To perform this action you must play one card marked with the 
 symbol.
Important: You can only claim cards with your first action. You may perform 
free actions beforehand.
You can claim a card from a Game Card space if you have MORE pieces in the 
associated City space than any other single player AND at least one of those pieces 
is an Influence cube. You cannot claim a card with only agents, you have to have 
some influence in the city you are performing this action in. You cannot claim a 
card where you are tied with another player, even if all of the pieces belonging to 
that other player are agents.
You take the card in question from the Game Card space and place it on your 
discard pile.
You take all of your Influence cubes from the City space and place them in Limbo.
Any Influence cubes belonging to other players in the 
City space are removed and returned to their 
If the card you have just claimed is marked with the 
 symbol 
then you take one of your Agent pieces and place it in the City space 
you took the card from (in the case of Peter Rachkovsky you would 
place two Agent pieces).
If the card is marked with one of the following symbols 2
 
then you score the victory points indicated as soon 
as you claim the card.
If the card is marked with the 
 symbol then you take the Sanity die and roll 
it. If the result is an Insanity symbol then you remove and discard one Sanity token 
from your Secret Identity card. The rules concerning sanity will be described later 
on.
It is possible for you to claim more than one card in 
this action. You can play multiple cards marked with the 
 symbol and claim 
cards from each city where circumstances, as described above, allow. This is still 
counted as one action, even though you are taking more than one card.
Limbo
Discard 
Pile
Player’s 
Stock
Monday (red) can claim the Shoggoth 
card as his first action. He has a total 
of five pieces in the city, four Influence 
cubes and one Agent piece. Thursday 
(blue) only has four pieces (two Influence 
cubes and two Agent pieces)(1). Monday 
moves his four cubes to Limbo, while 
Thursday removes her two Influence 
cubes and returns them to her Available 
stock. Monday takes the Shoggoth card 
and places it on his discard pile. (2) As 
it is marked with the Insanity symbol he 
must also roll the Sanity die. He does so 
and loses one Sanity token.

	ACTION: RETRIEVE 
INFLUENCE CUBES
As the game goes on the number of Influence cubes in your Available stock 
will decline. This action allows you to return cubes back into your 
To perform this action you must play one or more cards marked with the 
 
symbol. For each such symbol played you can take one of your Influence cubes 
from the board and place it back in your Available stock. You can take any of your 
cubes from the board, whether they be in Limbo or in a City space. Note that 
unlike placing Influence cubes you can retrieve cubes from multiple places 
on the board in a single action.
As with placing cubes you cannot deliberately overpay cards. The number of cubes 
you retrieve must match the number of symbols on the cards you played.
In the situation below Thursday (blue) could potentially claim three cards in a single action if she has enough cards that allowed her to 
do so. She could claim cards from Paris, Madrid and Constantinople. She cannot claim from Cairo as she does not have any Influence 
cubes in that city.
Tuesday (yellow) decides he is very low 
on Influence cubes. He plays the three 
cards shown and takes three of his 
cubes from Limbo and adds them to his 
S 009
Tuesday
S 001
Player’s 
Stock

	ACTION: MOVE AGENTS
Your agents are useful in helping to claim cards and performing assassinations. 
Thus you want to be able to move them to where they may be 
most effective.
To perform this action you must play one or more cards marked with the 
 
symbol. For each such symbol played you can move one of your Agent pieces from 
one City space to any other City space on the board. You can only move your 
agents and only those that are on the board (not those in your Available stock).
There is no limit to the number of Agent pieces that can be in a City space. As 
with the previous actions, you cannot deliberately overpay cards to use more cards 
than required. Having said that, you may move fewer agents than the number of 
symbols played (given that some cards have multiple Move symbols on them).
Monday (red) wants to move three of his 
agents. He plays the cards shown here 
and moves three of his agents, in this 
case to St. Petersburg.
S 005

2 2 	 ACTION: MOVE MARKERS
There are two tracks along the centre of the board, one marked ‘Loyalist’ and the 
other ‘Restorationist’. The Loyalist track represents the efforts of the authorities to 
foment a war, which in turn will feed their unnatural masters and mistresses with 
psychic energy. The Restorationists are busy inciting the population to throw off 
their shackles and revolt against the authorities. To some observers the difference 
between the two aims is difficult to discern.
As an action you can play one or more cards with these 2
 symbols 
on. You then move the markers accordingly on each track. There is nothing to 
stop you playing cards to move both markers, or move a marker more than once. 
Neither marker can be moved higher than ‘10’ on the track (the moment that this 
happens will automatically trigger the end of the game). Please note that in this 
case all movements of the markers are resolved before the game ends.
After moving the markers victory points should be adjusted to reflect their new 
positions. ALL players score whatever the difference is between the positions of the 
two markers (it does not matter which side a player is on). This may mean players’ 
victory point scores being reduced rather than increased, depending on how the 
markers are moved.
Wednesday plays the cards shown here. 
The Restorationist marker is moved three 
spaces up the Restorationist track. All 
players immediately add three victory 
points to their victory point totals. If 
in a later turn the Loyalist marker was 
moved up three spaces then all players 
would reduce their victory point totals 
by three.
Cairo
Louise Michel

	ACTION: PERFORM 
ASSASSINATION
No game about anarchists, secret agents and unholy creatures from another 
dimension would be complete without the ability to assassinate the 
aforementioned.
To perform this action you must play a card with the 
 symbol on. You can 
then target either another agent or a Royalty card in a city where you have at least 
one Agent piece. You can only target a Royalty card that is in the Royalty slot in 
the city you wish to perform the action in.
You can only perform the assassination action in a City space where you have more 
pieces (including Influence cubes) than any other single player. In this sense the 
action is similar to that of claiming a card.
To complete the action you must show that you have the correct number of Bomb 
points required. 
Each Agent piece you have in the City box in question 
is worth one Bomb point. Each card that you play that has 
 symbols on is 
worth Bomb points equal to the number of such symbols on the card. You do not 
include any Bomb point symbols on the card you played to allow you to perform 
the assassination action.
To assassinate another Agent piece you must match with Bomb points the value 
indicated above the City space.
To assassinate a Royalty card you must match with Bomb points the value 
indicated on the Royalty card.
Sfaticlip The Fallen Wisdom
Constantinople
You cannot deliberately overpay cards to meet the Bomb point total.
The card you played that allowed you to perform the assassination action is 
removed from play, it is NOT discarded to your discard pile. 
Thus, all cards used to perform assassinations are one-use only (hence the star icon 
to help remind you of the difference between this action and the other standard 
actions). All other cards played to support this action, i.e. for their Bomb points, 
In the situation shown here Monday 
(red) can carry out an assassination in 
Paris. To assassinate one of Thursday’s 
agents he would have to reach a total 
of four Bomb points. To assassinate 
The Spinner in the Darkness he would 
have to reach five Bomb points. He 
has two Bomb points at the moment, 
one for each Agent piece. He decides to 
assassinate royalty and plays the cards 
shown - the Hired Assassin to allow 
him to carry out the action and the 
other three cards to provide the necessary 
Bomb points. After doing this he rolls 
the Sanity die, which results in him 
losing one Sanity token, along with one 
of his agents. He must also remove his 
Influence cube and place it in Limbo 
(Thursday retrieves her blue cube and 
places back in her Available stock). 
Finally, he places the Royalty card near 
his Secret Identity card and increases his 
victory point total by four.
Monday cannot carry out an 
assassination in London as he does not 
have the most pieces in that city.
The Spinner in the Darkness
i
h D
Johann Most
Sergei Nechaev
S 001
The Peoples’ Will
Retrieve all of your cubes 
from Limbo.
The Black Hand
Score two Restorationist 
VPs for each Royalty card 
you have.
Okhrana
Move one or two cubes 
from the board to Limbo.

ACTION: DISCARD CARDS
If you have a hand of, what you consider to be, useless cards then as an action you 
can discard one or more cards from your hand to your discard pile. Please note 
that you do not pick up any more cards until the end of your turn, when you draw 
back to five cards.
ACTION: CARD ACTION
Many of the cards in this game allow you to carry out special actions. The card will state on it ‘Action’ indicating that it costs 
one of your two actions to perform. If the card is just marked ‘Action’ then you place it on your discard pile after use. If the card 
is marked ‘One-use action’ then you remove the card from play after playing it (place it to one side).
If the card gained you victory points in any manner, either when you claimed it or because you have just played it, then you 
place it near your Secret Identity card. You do not lose points marked on a card just because you have used its one-use function.
ACTION: PASS
Not something you would like to do but once in a while you may find yourself with no other option than to pass.
are placed on your discard pile UNLESS explicitly stated otherwise (such as the 
Fenians card).
If you chose to assassinate another agent then you select an agent belonging to 
another player in the city where you are performing this action and remove it from 
the board. If the card you played has the iconography shown right on the bottom 
of it then you place the card near your Secret Identity card and place the Agent 
piece on top of the agent symbol. You then score the victory points indicated on 
the card. If the card you played does not have this box on then you hand the Agent 
piece back to the owning player, who places it in their Available stock.
Please note that if you assassinate a player’s last remaining Agent piece on the board 
then that player is obliged to reveal their secret identity (more on this later).
If you chose to assassinate royalty then you take the Royalty card from the Royalty 
slot in the city where you performed the action and place it near your Secret 
Identity card (you do not place the Royalty card on your discard pile). You then 
roll the Sanity die. If you have to lose one Sanity token then you also remove one 
of your Agent pieces from the city in question and return it to your Available stock.
Finally, you remove all of your Influence cubes from the city where you performed 
this action and place them in Limbo. All Influence cubes belonging to other players 
are removed and returned to their owning players’ Available stock.
You may perform more than one assassination in a 
single action. Each assassination requires you to play a card with the 
 symbol on. You must resolve each assassination in 
order, with you choosing that order. An agent piece can be used in multiple assassinations, both to allow such an assassination 
to occur and to contribute its bomb point value.

Your Secret Identity
At the start of the game you will have received a Secret Identity card. On to this 
you will have placed three Sanity tokens. You must reveal your secret identity if:
a) your last remaining Agent piece on the board is assassinated, or
b) you lose your last remaining Sanity token from the card.
If you reveal your identity to be that of a Loyalist
You immediately add Agent pieces to the board to bring your total up to three. You 
may place these agents in any City spaces of your choice. The game then continues 
as normal.
If you reveal your identity to be that of a Restorationist
The game ends immediately, please peruse the section below titled ‘Ending the 
Game’ for more details.
Explanatory note: When a Restorationist goes mad he or she shoots herself. When 
a Loyalist goes mad people are hard pressed to tell the difference.
Scoring Victory Points
During the course of the game you will score victory points in a number of ways. 
Victory points come in three types, Loyalist, Restorationist and neutral. This 
distinction is only important at the end of the game and during the course of the 
game your total victory point score should reflect ALL of the victory points you 
have acquired.
You adjust your victory points total when:
•	 You claim a card with victory points marked on the upper part of the card.
•	 When markers are moved on the Loyalist/Restorationist tracks.
•	 You play a card that has victory points marked in the text box - 
this card should be placed near your Secret Identity card. 
•	 You assassinate an agent using a card that awards victory points for doing so 
(see rules on assassination).
REVEAL if you lose all of your 
agents or Sanity tokens.
If you have less than three agents 
on the board, place agents until you 
have three agents on the board.
LOYALIST
REVEAL if you lose all of your 
agents or Sanity tokens.
The game ends immediately.
RESTORATIONIST

Ending the Game
The game ends when one of the following conditions has been met:
•	 A player reaches or exceeds a set number of victory points, which are: 
	
two players:	
28 victory points
	
three players: 	
24 victory points
	
four players: 	
22 victory points
	
five players: 	
20 victory points
•	 One or both markers on the Loyalist/Restorationist tracks reaches 
the ‘10’ space.
•	 As soon as one Restorationist player is forced to reveal his Secret Identity, 
which will occur if they lose all of their Agent pieces from the board or 
their last Sanity token.
Once the game ends all players reveal their secret identities.
All players now adjust their victory point scores to take into account their identity. 
Note that if the game end was triggered due to one or more players reaching or 
exceeding the set number of victory points then the game still ends even if all of the 
adjusted scores fall below this target.
A Loyalist player retains all Loyalist and neutral victory points. They lose any 
Restorationist victory points.
A Loyalist player will retain victory points on any cards used for assassinating other 
agents IF the Agent piece on the card in question belongs to a Restorationist player. 
Otherwise these points are lost.
A Restorationist player retains all Restorationist and neutral victory points. They 
lose any Loyalist victory points.
With regards to the Loyalist and Restorationist tracks, the highest marker 
determines which side retains those points. Thus, if the Restorationist marker was 
two points higher than the Loyalist marker then all Loyalist players would lose two 
victory points, while the Restorationist players would retain those points.
Finally, after making the above adjusments, look at which player has the lowest 
victory point score. All players on the same side (Loyalist or Restorationist) lose 
five victory points. In the case of a tie for the lowest score then a Loyalist player 
will be regarded as having a lower score than a Restorationist player.
The player with the highest victory point score is declared the winner. If there is 
a tie between two or more players then a Restorationist player will be regarded as 
having the higher score. If there is still a tie then the tied players are declared joint 
winners.
The original victory points score is 
shown in the upper image, and the 
adjusted score shown in the lower image. 
Monday (red) and Thursday (blue) 
are both Restorationists, while Tuesday 
(yellow) and Wednesday (green) are 
Loyalists. As Thursday (blue) has the 
lowest score both Restorationist players 
must reduce their scores by five victory 
points, thus making Wednesday (green) 
the winner.

This is the situation for Tuesday (yellow) at the end of the game. Before adjusting his 
victory point total he has sixteen points in all (eight points from cities, one point from 
the Louise Michel card, four points from the Sebastian Moran card and three points 
from the Restorationist/Loyalist tracks). It turns out that Tuesday is a Loyalist. It is also 
the case that Monday (red) is a Restorationist. Tuesday must reduce his score by four 
points as he does not count any pink points, which in this case were scored for Louise 
Michel and from the Restorationist/Loyalist tracks. If Monday (red) had turned out to 
be a Loyalist then he would also have lost a further four victory points for the Sebastian 
Moran card.
Tuesday’s adjusted victory point score is twelve victory points.
Berlin
Louise Michel
Sebastian Moran

Detailed Card Descriptions
The Black Hand
Score two Restorationist 
VPs for each Royalty card 
you have.
The Black Hand - You immediately score 
two victory points for each Royalty card you 
have gained by assassination. If you gain more 
Royalty cards in this manner later on then 
you score two additional points for each 
one gained. These are regarded as 
Restorationist points.
Change of Heart
Place on Secret Identity 
card. You are now on the 
opposite side.
Change of Heart - You play this card on 
top of your Secret Identity card. When you 
reveal your identity you are considered to 
be on the other side, i.e. if you started the 
game as a Loyalist then you would now be a 
Restorationist. Note that you can play this 
card after you have been forced to reveal 
your identity (which would mean you 
were a Loyalist). Doing so would end the 
game immediately, as you would now be a 
Restorationist with a revealed identity.
Cthulhu
ONE USE ACTION: 
Remove all cards, agents 
and zombies from one city. 
All Influence cubes go to Limbo.
Cthulhu - Select one city to target with this 
card. You then remove all cards from that city’s 
Game Card space. All Agent and Zombie 
pieces are removed from the City space and 
returned to their owners’ Available stock. All 
Influence cubes in the City space, including 
your own, are moved to Limbo. If a player 
has the Zombie card he can still use it to place 
Zombie pieces that have been removed from 
the board.
The Diogenes Club
Draw two cards 
from your deck.
The Diogenes Club - Draw two cards from 
your draw deck. If you exhaust your deck then 
shuffle your discard pile BEFORE discarding 
this card.
Doctor Watson
Draw two cards 
from your deck.
Doctor Watson - Draw two cards from your 
draw deck. If you exhaust your deck then 
shuffle your discard pile BEFORE discarding 
the Doctor Watson card.
Duchess d Uzès
Claim a card without having 
cubes in place. You must still 
have the most pieces in the city.
Duchess D Uzes - You may claim a card 
from a Game Card card space where you have 
the most pieces, but without any of them 
having to be Influence cubes (so they could 
all be Agent pieces). Note that you cannot 
combine this action with the Claim one card 
action, it must be performed separately. You 
can perform this action as your first or second 
action.
Fenians
ONE-USE BENEFIT: 
Gain Bomb points equal to 
the number of agents you 
have in the location.
Fenians - You play this card when carrying 
out an assassination. All of your Agent pieces 
in the city where you are performing the 
action are regarded as being worth two Bomb 
points each. You cannot play two Fenian cards 
to quadruple their value.
Freemasons
Discard and draw 
replacement cards, 
including one for this card.
The Freemasons - Discard as many cards as 
you wish from your hand. You then draw the 
same number of cards from your draw deck, 
including one for this card. If you exhaust 
your deck then you shuffle your discard pile 
BEFORE discarding this card.
Hide Royalty
Claim one Royalty card on 
display where you have the most 
pieces. Retain points at end of 
game if you are a Loyalist.
Hide Royalty - You claim one Royalty card 
from a Royalty slot. You must have the most 
pieces in the associated City space. You place 
this card on top of the Royalty card. The 
victory points on the Royalty card are now 
regarded as being Loyalist points. You remove 
any Influence cubes you have in the city and 
place them in Limbo. All other cubes are 
removed and returned to their owning players’ 
Available stock. You also make a Sanity die 
roll, as if you had performed an assassination. 
If you lose sanity then you also lose one agent, 
but only if one was present.
Hired Assassin - use in the same way as any 
other card that allows you to carry out an 
assassination.
The Holy Brotherhood
Take cubes from Limbo 
equal to the number of 
agents you have.
The Holy Brotherhood - You retrieve a 
number of your Influence cubes from Limbo 
equal to the number of Agent pieces you have 
on the board, or as close as you can to this 
number.
Infernal Machine
ONE-USE
Infernal Machine - Worth three Bomb points 
but one-use only.
Inspector Lestrade
Return all cubes in one 
city to owning player.
Inspector Lestrade - Remove all of the 
Influence cubes belonging to one player from 
a City space of your choice and return them to 
their Available stock.
Irene Adler
Replace any agent with 
one of your agents.
Irene Adler - You replace any Agent piece on 
the board with one of your own from your 
Available stock. Return the other Agent piece 
to the owning player’s Available stock.

Matvei Golovinski
Matvei Golovinski - Move the Loyalist 
marker two spaces up the Loyalist track. The 
marker cannot move higher than ten points, 
so if on nine points you would only move it 
one space.
Mi-Go
Move two of your agents from the 
board to this card. As a free action 
you may place them onto any 
location in a later turn.
Mi-Go - Remove one or two of your Agent 
pieces from the board and place on this card. 
This card should be placed close to your 
Secret Identity card. In a later turn, as a free 
action, you can place the agents back on the 
board, in any City space. If you have removed 
two agents then both must be placed at the 
same time in the same City space. Note that 
Agent pieces on this card are considered to 
be on the board, so even if you have no other 
agents on the board you would not reveal your 
secret identity.
Mrs Hudson
Discard and draw 
replacement cards, 
including one for this card.
Mrs. Hudson - Discard as many cards as 
you wish from your hand. You then draw the 
same number of cards from your draw deck, 
including one for this card. If you exhaust 
your deck then you shuffle your discard pile 
BEFORE discarding this card.
Okhrana
Move one or two cubes 
from the board to Limbo.
Okhrana - Move one or two Influence cubes 
from City spaces of your choice to Limbo. 
You may choose cubes belonging to different 
players and from different cities.
The Peoples’ Will
Retrieve all of your cubes 
from Limbo.
The Peoples’ Will - You retrieve all of your 
Influence cubes from Limbo.
Pinkerton Agents
Place one of your agents 
in any location.
Pinkerton Agents - Take one of your Agent 
pieces from your Available stock and place it 
in a City space of your choice.
Sherlock Holmes
 INTERRUPT:
Negate any action that 
would eliminate one 
of your agents.
Sherlock Holmes - You can play this card 
as an interrupt to stop another player from 
eliminating one of your agents. This card is 
effective against assassinations, Shoggoth, 
vampires, zombies, and Cthulhu. In the case 
of Cthuhlu no effect is registered by the card, 
i.e. Sherlock has destroyed Cthulhu before it 
can do any real damage. The player carrying 
out the original action still has to lose/discard 
the cards played as if they had carried out the 
action. If you use this card to stop another 
player killing one of your agents with one of 
their zombies then the other player continues 
to use his remaining zombies. He cannot 
target the agent you protected with another 
zombie in the same city.
Shoggoth - You select one Agent piece to 
remove from the board. You cannot select one 
of your own agents. You treat the removed 
piece as if you had assassinated it - note that 
the bottom of the card will give you victory 
points for the agent. Also note that you do not 
need a presence in the city where this event 
takes place.
Sigmund Freud
Regain all of your sanity and 
move the Restorationist marker 
two spaces up the track.
Sigmund Freud - Take Sanity tokens from 
the stock to bring you back to your full 
complement of three. At the same time you 
must move the Restorationist marker two 
spaces up the Restorationist track.
Society of Leopold
Remove all zombies from the 
board. Zombie and/or Vampire 
cards are removed from the game 
if held by players.
Society of Leopold - When you play this card 
you remove all Zombie pieces from the board. 
These are permanently out of the game. The 
Zombie and Vampire cards are now regarded 
as being ineffective. The owners of those cards 
should find them and remove them from their 
hand, deck, discard pile or Secret Identity 
card. If they had to remove them from their 
hand then they draw a replacement card. The 
victory points for these cards are now lost. 
This is the only situation where you can lose 
points for a card before the end of the game.
Terrors of the Night
Force one player 
to make a Sanity roll.
Terrors of the Night - Choose another player 
and force them to roll the Sanity die. If they 
roll an Insanity symbol then they lose one of 
their Sanity tokens.
The Third Section
Discard top card from 
any pile on the board.
The Third Section - You discard the top card 
from one City Card space of your choice. The 
card is removed from the game. You cannot 
use this card to remove a Royalty card from 
play.
Vampires
ONE-USE ACTION: Replace an 
agent of your choice with one of 
your own in a city you occupy 
- OR - INTERRUPT: Negate 
assassination of one of your agents.
Vampires - This card has two possible uses. 
You can use it as a one-use action to replace 
one Agent piece belonging to another player 
with one of your own from your Available 
stock. You must have at least one agent in the 
City box where you carry out this action. The 
other Agent piece is returned to the owning 
player's Available stock. The second use is to 
play the card as an interrupt to stop another 
player from assassinating one of your agents. 
The other player is still regarded as having 
performed the action and must discard all 
of the cards associated with it, including 
permanently losing the card that allowed the 
assassination.
Vladimir Burtsev
Look at the Secret Identity 
Card of one player without 
revealing it to other players.
Vladimir Burtsev - You may look at the 
Secret Identity card of a player of your choice. 
You must keep this information secret from 
other players.

Yog Sothoth
Place one or more of your 
agents on this card. Score 
one Loyalist VP for each 
agent placed.
Yog-Sothoth - Play this card near your Secret 
Identity card. You can then take some or all of 
your Agent pieces from the board and place 
them on this card. For each agent you place 
you score one victory point. Note that if you 
remove all of your agents then you must reveal 
your Secret Identity card. You would then 
follow the standard rules for doing this, i.e. if 
you are a Loyalist then you would place three 
Agent pieces on the board. The points you 
score are regarded as being Loyalist points. 
Zombies
ACTION: You may remove one 
agent from each location with 
zombies in, then place two 
zombies in any location.
Zombies - This action has two parts. You 
first MAY remove ONE agent of your choice 
from each City space that you have one or 
more zombies in. You cannot remove your 
own Agent pieces. The removed agents should 
be returned to the owning players’ Available 
stock. You then place two Zombie pieces on 
the board, in any City boxes of your choice. 
More than one zombie can be placed in a city. 
Zombie pieces can only be removed from the 
board by the play of the Cthulhu card or the 
Society of Leopold card.
Credits
Game design 
Martin Wallace
Cover artwork
Tatiana Kuzilova
Board and card artwork
Ian O’Toole
Graphic design
Ian O’Toole
Thanks
Sarah Nagel, Shane Myerscough and CSI, David Taylor.
Special thanks
Neil Gaiman, Merrilee Heifetz, and Julia Wallace.
Playtesters
Simon Bracegirdle, Andy Odgen, Christopher Dearlove, 
Kirstin Donaldson, Nikolaj Wendt, Gordon Lewis, Brad 
Thompson, Nathan Grange, Katherine Boag, Glenn Patel, 
Antonia Brown, Lee Griffiths and many others at Board 
Games by the Bay.

PLAY AID
Game Play
In player order each player performs two actions and then refills their hand to five cards.
Actions
Other symbols
Starting cards in each city
Along with the corresponding City and Royalty cards place 
the following game cards:
2/3 players:	
3 cards per city 
4 players:	
4 cards per city 
5 players:	
5 cards per city
Player starting pieces
Players start with two Agents on the board and five Influence 
cubes in Limbo.
Start with five cards in hand.
Easy to Forget Rules
You can only take cards from the board as the FIRST of your 
two actions. You can still perform free actions beforehand.
Slide Royalty cards down to their slot as soon as they are 
revealed, then turn over the next card.
Remember to place an Agent if you take a card with the 
‘Place Agent’ symbol on.
You must have more pieces than any other single player to 
carry out an assassination.
Game End
Player reaches target score on the Victory Point track.
Marker reaches the end of the Restorationist/Loyalist track.
Player is forced to reveal card AND they are a Restorationist.
Place one Influence cube: 
Each symbol you play allows you to place 
one Influence cube. All cubes must be 
placed in the same city space.
Claim one card: 
Each symbol you play allows you to claim 
one card where you have the most pieces, 
of which at least one must be an Influence 
cube. MUST be the first of your two 
actions. Your cubes go to Limbo, rest 
returned to owning players.
Retrieve one Influence cube: 
Each symbol you play allows you to retrieve 
one of your Influence cubes from anywhere 
on the board.
Move Agent: 
Each symbol you play allows you to move 
one agent from any city to any other city.
Perform Assassination: 
May assassinate another agent or Royalty. 
Must expend Bomb points indicated in city 
or on card. One-use action, so card removed 
from play afterwards.
Move Restorationist marker
Move Loyalist marker
Place one of your Agent pieces
Bomb point
Insanity – check sanity by rolling 
the Sanity die
Neutral victory points
Restorationist victory points
Loyalist victory points
Place assassinated piece on this card and 
score VPs
Bomb points required to assassinate