Back of the 
Exploration 
cards
Front
of the Monsters
Front
of the Allies
Contents & Setup
71 Exploration cards (65 Allies & 6 Monsters):
Back
of the Lords
35 Lords:
Shuffle the Lord cards and form a face down deck on the Lords space . 
Then, turn over the top six cards and place them in the Court .
Shuffle the Exploration cards and form a face down deck on the Exploration 
Track .
Place the game board in the middle of the table . 
Front of a
Merchant Lord

THE COUNCIL
THE COURT
THE EXPLORATION TRACK
Place the ten Key tokens 
in a pile near the board
Shuffle the Monster tokens and place them, face down, by the game board .
Place the Threat token 
on the Threat Track as shown .
Each player takes one Pearl 
from the supply, storing it in one of the 
plastic cups. The remaining Pearls are placed in the leftover cups and set 
beside the board to form a «Treasury».
Randomly determine the starting player.
Shuffle the Location tiles and form a face down stack to the side of the 
game board .
Then, turn over the top tile from the stack .
20 Monster tokens (2 of value 4, 9 of value 3, and 9 of value 2):
Back of the
Monster tokens
Front of the 
Monster tokens
20 Locations:
Front of a Location 
Back of the Locations

-1
To be crowned King of Abyss you must have the most Influence Points (“IP”) at 
the end of the game.
Influence Points are mainly gained by affiliating Allies, recruiting Lords, and 
controlling Locations. Also, each Monster you slay during the game will earn 
you the gratitude of your peers—and an Influence Point bonus.
The players take turns, going clockwise.
On your turn, you must take the following steps, in order:
Plot at Court
At the beginning of your turn, you may choose to pay one Pearl to the 
Treasury to add one Lord to an empty space in the Court (the furthest away 
from the Lord deck). You may perform this action as many times as you want 
(as long as you can pay and there are empty spaces). If there are no empty 
spaces at Court or if the Lord deck is empty, you may not Plot at Court.
Take One Action
On your turn, you must perform one of the following actions:
The Exploration card deck is made up of:
Object of the Game
Game Overview
Control Locations (Mandatory): When you gain a third Key, you 
must take control of a Location.
Explore the Depths
Request Support From the Council
Recruit a Lord
Take One Action (Mandatory): You must choose one of the following 
three actions:
•	 The Five Allied Races: Squids in blue, Shellfish in green, Crabs in 
red, Seahorses in yellow, and Jellyfish in purple.
•	 And 6 Monsters!
Each Race is made up of 13 cards as follows: one value 5 card, two value 4 cards, 
three value 3 cards, three value 2 cards, and four value 1 cards.
When you explore, you reveal cards from the top of the Exploration deck one 
by one and place them on the Exploration Track of the game board, starting 
with the space closest to the deck, and continuing to the right. Each time you 
reveal a card, you must follow this procedure:
You MUST first offer the other players the opportunity to buy this Ally from 
you: ask each player in turn, going clockwise. Each player can either pass or 
purchase the Ally.
The first player who chooses to purchase the card pays its cost to you. Then, 
they add the Ally card to their hand.
The cost to purchase an Ally increases during your turn. The first Ally purchased 
costs 1 Pearl. The second costs 2 Pearls, and the third costs 3 Pearls. It doesn’t 
matter which player purchases the Allies!
Important: Each of your opponents can only purchase one Ally 
during your turn!
If the revealed card is an Ally:
Plot at Court (Optional) : You may spend one or more Pearls to bring 
new Lords to Court.
Explore the Depths
If none of the other players want to buy that Ally, you must either:
•	 add it to your hand for free, which immediately ends your turn or
•	 leave it in its space on the board and reveal the next card. You must then 
offer the new card for sale, and so on.
If all the spaces on the Exploration Track are filled with Allies, and none of your 
opponents wants to buy the last Ally you revealed, you must add that Ally to your 
hand. You then gain one Pearl (as shown on the board).

On the 1st space, they win 1 Pearl OR 1 Monster token.
On the 2nd space, they win 2 Pearls OR 1 Monster token 
+ 1 Pearl OR 2 Monster tokens.
On the 3rd space, they win 1 Key token.
On the 4th space, they win 1 Key token + 1 Pearl OR 1 Key 
token + 1 Monster token.
On the 5th space, they win 1 Key token + 2 Pearls OR 1 
Key token + 1 Pearl + 1 Monster token OR 1 Key token + 
2 Monster tokens.
Depending on the position of the Threat token on the Threat track, the player 
who fights the Monster will win lesser or greater rewards:
On the 6th space, they win 2 Key tokens.
You must either FIGHT THE MONSTER or KEEP EXPLORING.
If you decide to fight, victory is automatic and the Monster is discarded.
You win the reward shown on the Threat Track, which may include: 
•	 Pearls 
taken from the Treasury;
•	 Influence Points from a randomly drawn Monster token 
(kept face 
down);
•	 Keys .
Some spaces on the Threat Track offer a choice between multiple awards.
After defeating the monster, return the Threat token to the first space of the 
Threat Track. Your turn now ends.
If you decide to keep exploring, move the Threat token one space up the track 
and continue revealing cards, as above.
Important: When a Monster is revealed on the last space of the 
Exploration Track, you must fight it. In addition to the reward 
shown on the Threat Track, you also receive one Pearl
(as shown on the board). 
If the revealed card is a Monster:
The active player reveals the 1st card and offers it 
to their opponents who do not wish to buy it. The 
player can then take it for themselves but would 
rather continue Exploring.
They thus reveal a 2nd card. This 
time, the next two opponents 
turn it down, but the 3rd pays a 
Pearl to the active player to add 
this ally to their hand.
The active player 
reveals a 3rd card 
which is placed on 
the 2nd space. It’s 
a Monster, which 
they decide not to fight in order to continue their Exploration. The 
Threat token therefore moves up one space on the Threat tracker 
and the Monster remains in place.
Then, they reveal 
a 4th card, which 
is bought by the 
1st opponent for 
2 Peals, as it’s the 
2nd Ally purchased 
this turn.
Then the active player reveals 3 more cards that their opponents turn down or can 
no longer afford and which does not interest the active player either. But the 7th 
revealed card is placed on the last space of the board. The player is thus forced to 
add it to their hand and takes a bonus Pearl from the Treasury. Their turn ends. 
Opponent 3
Opponent 1

When you request support from the Council, take all of the cards from one 
stack in the Council—without looking at them beforehand!—and add them 
to your hand.
Request Support From the Council
Note: If the Exploration card deck runs out, form a new face down deck 
by re-shuffling all of the cards in the discard pile.
End of Exploration:
Once you have decided to either add an Ally to your hand or fight a Monster, 
your turn ends. All Allies that remain on the Exploration Track are placed, face 
down, on the spaces matching their Race in the part of the board called the 
“Council”. Any Monsters are placed in the Exploration discard pile.

Depending on race, the Lords each belong to one of the 6 different guilds, each with their own specialty:
Recruit a Lord
On the Lord cards, you will find:
The name of the Lord.
The cost required to recruit it: 
•	 The total number of bubbles indicates the exact number of different Race types required.
•	 The large bubble indicates the mandatory Race. For the smaller bubbles, the choice of Race is left up you.
•	 The number under the bubbles indicates the total value of Allies you need to play to recruit that Lord.
Example: To recruit the Master of Magic you must spend at least 10 Ally points from three different 
Races, one of which must be the Jellyfish Race.
The Lord’s Power:
If the Power is marked with an arrow, it is applied only once, when the Lord is recruited. If there is no arrow, 
this Power is semi-permanent: it lasts until this Lord is used to control a Location (in which case the Power 
is hidden by the Location). 
Some Lords have a Key symbol, which can be used to control a Location.
Finally, each Lord you recruit will grant you a certain number of Influence Points!
Ambassadors will allow you to more easily gain control of the 
most sought-after Locations.
Farmers have no Powers, but are worth many Influence Points 
as they grow the Sargasso—the nourishing algae sought by all.
Soldiers are not very popular and are worth fewer Influence Points, 
but their Powers are useful against your opponents.
Mages are gifted at obtaining favors from the Allied Races.
Merchants will give you precious Pearls, without which you 
will find it very hard to master your destiny.
Politicians are widely disliked and have few scruples. They’re 
very useful to sway the control of Lords. 

In the current situation, the active player can recruit:
•	 The Master of Magic by using their jellyfish Ally of value 3, plus their crab Ally of value 2, and 
their shell Ally of value 5, for a total of 10 with 3 different Races, a minimum of one of which was 
from the jellyfish Race. He’ll then AFFILIATE the value 2 crab Ally;
•	 The Slaver by using his two shell Allies for a total value of 6 and by completing with the use of 
two Pearls. He’ll then AFFILIATE his shell Ally of value 1.
However, he can’t recruit the Traitor as he has no squid Ally in his hand.
If he decides to purchase the Master of Magic or the Slaver, he’ll also gain two Pearls and the Court 
will then be refilled.
Active player’s hand
On your turn, you may choose to recruit one of the Lords available at Court. 
To recruit a Lord, you must play enough Allies from your hand to pay the costs 
shown on that Lord card (see inset). 
Paying Lord Costs:
•	 You must play the exact number of different Races required (no more and 
no less).
•	 You may play multiple Allies from the same Race.
•	 The total value of the Allies you play may be more than what is required, 
but no “change” is given: the extra Ally “points” are lost.
•	 You may spend Pearls to help recruit: you must still play at least one Ally 
from each of the required Races, but if the sum of the card values is not 
high enough, you can spend one Pearl for each missing point (Pearls are 
paid to the Treasury).
All Ally cards used to recruit a Lord are placed in the Exploration discard pile 
except for the one with the lowest value. This ally becomes “affiliated” with your 
cause: place it face up in front of you. If you discard multiple Allies with the same 
lowest value, you choose which one to keep. 
Affiliated Allies remain in front of you for the rest of the game. They cannot be 
used to recruit Lords, but they are counted in the final tally of Influence Points.
Lord Powers:
After paying the recruitment costs, place the 
Lord face up in front of you. This Lord is said to 
be “free” and is available for use.
Most of the Lords have a Power that is applied 
immediately when the Lord is recruited, and only 
once. These Powers are marked with an arrow.
Some Lords have a “semi-permanent” Power 
that remains in effect until that Lord is used 
to control a Location. These Powers are not 
marked with an arrow. 
Note: A player who controls a Lord decides at which point during 
their turn the Lord’s semi-permanent Power is applied.
Refill the Court:
After you recruit a Lord, slide the remaining Lords in the Court to the right, so 
that any empty spaces are all as close to the deck as possible. If there are at least 
three Lords left in Court, the recruited Lord is not immediately replaced. But, if 
there are only two Lords left, you gain two Pearls (as shown on the board), and 
you must fill all empty spaces in the Court by turning over Lord cards from the 
top of the deck.

Control Locations
As soon as you gather three Keys (Keys are gained when you recruit a 
Lord with a Key symbol or by fighting a Monster while Exploration) you must 
immediately take control of a Location.
On Location cards, you will find:
The name of the Location
A symbol:
Which gives an indication on how to win influence points with this 
Location.
In the example below, the starfish (symbol for Allies) on a yellow circle 
(the color of the seahorse Race) shows that you’ll win Influence Points 
through Allies of the seahorse Race.
The Influence Points gained will be totaled at the end of the game.
When you take control of a Location, you may:
Take one of the available face up Locations (remember: at the beginning 
of the game, there is only one face up Location available); or
Draw 1, 2, 3, or 4 Locations and choose one from among those drawn. Then, 
place the rest face up beside the board, making them available for later 
turns. In this way, the more options you give yourself, the more choices 
you provide for your opponents!
Place your chosen Location in front of you. Any Lords used to control that 
Location must be slid underneath it so that their Powers are covered—these 
Powers are no longer available for the rest of the game.
Also, the Key(s) on that Lord is 
used, and cannot be used again. 
A Lord beneath a Location is no 
longer “free”, and cannot be the 
target of any Power of another 
Lord. These Lords are still worth 
the Influence Points indicated on 
their cards at the end of the game.
Any Key tokens (gained by fighting Monsters) that you used are simply 
discarded and returned to the pile. If you gain multiple Key tokens at once, 
and you end up with more than three Keys in your possession (including any 
provided by Lords), you may choose which Keys you will use to take control of 
a Location.
Note: Some Lords (the Ambassadors) have 3 Keys, which allow them 
to control a Location all by themselves. In this case, remember to 
slide the Ambassador under the Location so its Power is hidden.

The End of your Turn
When you have finished your mandatory actions, your turn is over. The player 
to your left now begins their turn, following the same steps as above. Players 
continue taking turns until one of the end-of-the-game conditions is met.
The End of the Game
The game ends when either of the following occurs:
Any player recruits their 7th Lord;
OR
Any player recruits a Lord and the Court needs to be refilled, but there are 
not enough Lord cards left to completely fill the Court.
In either case, the active player completes their turn normally. Then, each of the 
other players gets to take one last turn.
Finally, each player places (affiliates) the lowest-value Ally of each Race they still 
hold in their hands. Any other Allies in hand are discarded.
Now each player adds up their Influence Points. You get points from:
The Locations you control;
The Lords you have recruited;
The strongest affiliated Ally from each Race; and
The Monster tokens you hold.
The player with the highest Influence Point total wins the game! If there 
is a tie, the tied player with the most Pearls win. If they are still tied, the one with 
the highest value Lord wins.

Charles
Bruno
With their locations the player wins 32 Influence Points:
•	 due to the Parliament, the player wins 6 IP, plus 2 IP for each politician 
Lord they’ve recruited. They have two politician Lords, for a total of 10 IP.
•	 due to the Sanctuary, the player gains 4 IP, plus 3 IP for each Ally of the 
jellyfish Race they’ve affiliated. They have two Allies of the jellyfish Race, 
for a total of 10 IP.
•	 due to the Abyss, the player gains 2 IP for each Guild from which they have 
a Lord. The player has at least one Lord of each of the 6 Guilds (1 farmer, 
the Keeper, 1 merchant: the Slaver, 1 mage: the Master of Magic, 1 military: 
the Jailor, 2 politicians: the Traitor and the Corruptor, and 1 ambassador: 
the Elder. The player thus gains 12 IP.
With their Lords, the player wins 39 Influence Points:
•	 6 IP for the Keeper,
•	 5 IP for the Slaver,
•	 6 IP for the Master of Magic,
•	 3 IP for the Elder,
•	 7 IP for the Jailor,
•	 6 IP for the Traitor, and
•	 6 IP for the Corruptor.
With their Allies, the player gains 14 Influence Points:
•	 3 IP for the highest Ally of the jellyfish Race,
•	 3 IP for the highest Ally of the squid Race,
•	 2 IP for the strongest Ally of the crab Race,
•	 1 IP for the strongest Ally of the seahorse Race, and
•	 5 IP for the strongest Ally of the shell Race.
With their Monster tokens, the player gains 6 Influence Points.
In total, by adding A+B+C+D,
the player ends up with 91 Influence Points!

Lexicon
Authors: Bruno Cathala and Charles Chevallier.
Artwork: Xavier Collette.
English translator: Eric Harlaux.
English revision: Eric & Stephanie Franklin.
English editing: William Niebling.
Affiliate: keep in front of you the weakest Ally used during a recruitment.
Ally: card from the Exploration deck which represents a squid, a seahorse, a 
shell, a jellyfish, or a crab, with a value of 1 to 5.
Council: area of the board where, Race by Race, the Allies who were not kept 
during the Exploration of the depths phase are gathered.
Court: area of the board where Lords waiting to be recruited are placed.
Explore: reveal one at a time the cards from the Exploration deck on the 
corresponding area of the board (Exploration track) to try to find the Ally best 
suited for your purpose.
Free: any Lord present in front of a player, and not used to take control of a 
Location is considered to be “free”.
Guild: all of the Lord cards of the same specialty. There are six Guilds: the military 
in red, the merchants in green, the politicians in blue, the mages in violet, the 
farmers in yellow, and the ambassadors which are multicolored.
Influence Points: victory points.
Key: token gained by fighting a Monster or from a symbol printed on a Lord. A 
player must have three keys to take control of a Location.
Location: tiles representing the various strategic points of the Abyss. They offer 
Influence Point bonuses to those who take control of them with their Lords.
Lord: card representing a major creature of the Abyss, with incredible Powers.
Monster: 
•	 Monster: card from the Exploration deck which represents a monster.
•	 Monster token: token gained after having fought a Monster, and which is 
worth two, three, or four Influence Points.
Pearl: game currency.
Power: advantage granted by a Lord when a player recruits it.
Race: all of the Ally cards of a given type. There are five Races: the crabs in red, 
the shells in green, the squids in blue, the jellyfish in violet, and the seahorses 
in yellow.
Recruit: to pay the required cost to put in front of you one of the Lords currently 
at the Court.
Threat:
•	 Threat token: token moving on the Threat track. Its position determines the 
rewards a player earns when they fight a Monster.
•	 Threat track: track on which the Threat token moves.
Treasury: reserve of Pearls used as a stockpile.
Clarifications
Commander: when recruited by a player, each of that player’s 
opponents checks the number of Allies they have in hand. All 
players who have more than 6 discard the excess (they choose 
which cards to discard).
As long as the Commander is free in front of its owner, 
opponents can continue to add Allies to their hand (by 
exploring the depths, of requesting the Council’s support). But, 
at the end of their turn, they will have to choose which Allies to 
discard if they’ve gone over the limit of 6 Allies in their hand.
Assassin : the Lords targeted by the Assassin are rotated 90° to 
show that ONLY their Influence Points are taken into account 
at the end of the game, as their Power and any Keys they may 
have no longer have any effect.
However, Lords thus attacked by the Assassin remain free, and can 
be discarded by the effects of the Traitor or of the Schemer. The Lord 
which then enters play as a replacement is no longer affected by the 
Assassin, and can therefore use any Powers or Keys it may have.
Trainer: when a player chooses to fight a Monster while the 
Threat token is on the first space of the Threat track, that 
player still gets the reward linked to that space.
Master of Magic: when recruited:
1- The conditions of the recruitment are fulfilled. As a 
consequence, the weakest ally is affiliated.
2- THEN the Lord comes into play and can use his Power.
This Power therefore only has an effect on FUTURE recruitments, 
as the Ally affiliated during his recruitment was affiliated before 
the Master of Magic came into play.
Traitor and Schemer: when a player recruits one of these two 
Lords, that player can use their Power on any one of their 
other free Lords, meaning one not already used to control 
a Location. Specifically, Lords affected by the Assassin 
can also be targeted by the Traitor and the Schemer (see 
Assassin). The player can immediately use the Power of the 
new Lord which has come into play as a replacement.