 Accasta 
            Introduction to a Pure Stacking Game 
by Dieter Stein
It was back in the seventies that I first read about Lasca, the 
Checkers variant by the famous Chess champion Dr. Emanuel 
Lasker. Actually, I was never very interested in Checkers. But 
what struck me was a picture that illustrated the Lasca article. 
It showed two players handling large stacks of playing pieces. 
That looked very attractive and I instantly thought that a 
game with stacked pieces should also have great tactical 
potential. 
From that time on I worked on my very own stacking game. 
Being a Chess player it was unavoidable that some features of 
Chess slipped into the fundamental design. So there are two 
armies of different piece types face to face in a fixed setup 
marching against each other. 
At about the same time I discovered Glinski’s Hexagonal 
Chess, which I liked very much. So what I did for my game 
project at the beginning was putting the two elements 
together: stacks and a six-sided board. I also tried a traditional 
chessboard but that was only a short episode in the long 
evolution of Accasta. 
Board Setup 
Balancing this game turned out to be a difficult matter. I 
wanted the board to be sufficiently crowded for stacking to 
appear. It was clear that—unless you provide lots of playing 
pieces—the board dimensions would have to be rather small. 
The problem was that games on small boards often tend to 
lack strategic depth or, even worse, simply do not work. 
Sometimes in early versions of Accasta winning strategies 
were obvious; sometimes it was too easy to block the 
opponent. I remember a test game where a large stack, more 
than 20 pieces high, made Accasta almost feel like a game of 
dexterity. 
Finally, in spring 1998, I came up with a total of 40 pieces on 
37 spaces of a hexagonal board. The two players are provided 
with 20 pieces each, which are placed on two sides of the 
board on 9 specially marked spaces, inside a “castle”. Since 
no piece is ever removed from the board, it seemed quite 
natural to initiate every game of Accasta (terribly traditional) 
with a fixed starting position. 
White always makes the first move; then players move 
alternately. They cannot pass a turn. 
 
Fig. 1: Initial setup: 40 pieces on 37 spaces. The pieces are 
placed on the intersections of the lines. There are other 
board designs with hexagonal cells, which are 
topologically equivalent. 
The coordinate system reflects the symmetry of the board 
setup. Beginning on White’s side, the horizontal rows are 
labeled from a to g and then each space on a row is counted 
from the left to the right. 
Pieces and Stacks 
Accasta provides three different types of pieces: Shields, 
Horses, and Chariots, which move up to 1, 2, or 3 spaces, 
respectively. 
 
Fig. 2: Shield, Horse, and Chariot 
Unlike some other stacking games, the possible moves for a 
piece do not depend on its position in a stack. 
 
Fig. 3a: Possible moves for Shield (e5) and Horse (b2) 
 
Fig. 3b: Possible moves for Chariot (c4) 
All pieces move straight in any of the six possible directions. 
They cannot change direction during the move. Also, they 
cannot jump over another piece. However, they can land on 
friendly or enemy pieces or stacks that are within reach 
(subject to the height restrictions discussed below). 
If stacked pieces are to be moved, the piece on top can carry 
(or “lead”) any number of friendly or enemy pieces below; in 
other words, a stack can be split at any point. In some 
situations it even can be advantageous to uncover an enemy 
piece. This special move is called a “release” and has 
consequences, which will be explained later in this article. 
 
Fig. 4: Splitting a stack and “leading” other pieces 
The split off part of the stack can move as it is determined by 
the leading piece, e.g. a Shield leads other pieces always to 
adjacent spaces only. 
It follows from these moving rules that the topmost piece of a 
stack (also called the “head”) dominates the whole stack, i.e. 
all of the enemy pieces in the same stack are captured. Their 
owner has no access to them. However, they are not lost! By 
recapturing such a stack a player would liberate all of his 
previously captured pieces instantly and, at the same time, all 
previously dominating pieces are now captured themselves. 
 
Fig. 5: A previously captured white Shield is liberated. 
Multiple Moves 
Another outstanding feature of Accasta derived from its 
stacking nature is the possibility to move more than once in 
one single turn. As a player splits a stack and another friendly 
piece comes to the surface, that piece can move as well, 
possibly into another direction, but strictly as described 
before. However, by releasing an enemy piece the current 
player’s turn is over. 
 
Fig. 6: Moving three pieces in one turn. 
Safe Stacks 
In early draft versions of this game I had the problem of 
stacks growing too high. With multiple moves at hands it is 
obviously a good strategy to build up large and therefore 
powerful stacks. But I had to limit the growth for the sake of 
playability. Imagine a player having the option to make ten or 
more moves in series! 
Focus (a.k.a. Domination), invented by the ingenious and 
unforgettable Sid Sackson, uses the following rule to limit the 
growth of stacks: A stack can be no larger than five pieces 
high; if required, pieces are taken from the bottom of the 
stack off the board. This way enemy pieces can be captured. 
Accasta, on the other hand, comes with a very simple and 
straightforward rule to limit stack height: Stacking is only 
allowed if there are not more than 3 pieces of the same color 
in the resulting stack. It is important to note that this 
obviously refers to landing on a friendly stack as well as 
capturing an enemy stack! 
 
Fig. 7: White has to split his stack on the left to land on 
the white stack in the middle, as well as Black on the 
right, who cannot capture the middle stack without 
releasing at least one white Shield. 
The 3-pieces rule has a drastic effect: A stack containing 3 
captured pieces cannot be captured again; it becomes 
invulnerable, a “safe stack”. Safe stacks are the central 
tactical aspect of Accasta. It is important to keep in mind that 
a player can gain a safe stack rather quickly when leading one 
or even two enemy pieces. 
Object of the Game 
Players attempt to end up with at least 3 stacks of their own in 
the enemy’s castle to win the game of Accasta. 
 
Fig. 8: White wins with his stacks on e4, f4, and g1. 
A safe stack in the enemy’s castle is generally a big 
advantage: since it is invulnerable, it is a stable platform for 
others to enter. The only possible defense then is to block this 
enemy stack. But often a game is already lost in this situation. 
Finally, there is one rule to add: releasing an enemy piece in 
one’s own castle is illegal. This is due to the following 
situations: First, a player could commit suicide this way. 
Second, a player could potentially achieve his own and his 
opponent’s victory condition in the same turn. I decided on 
the most painless solution, which was to forbid the release at 
home. 
Conclusion 
Accasta is a fast and suspenseful game. The distances on the 
board are short; multiple moves can change a position on a 
large scale. A bad move can often be decisive. On the other 
hand, a player who appears to be playing a losing game can 
sometimes rally his forces. Together with the consistent rule 
set and the aesthetic aspect I was quite satisfied with the 
outcome of my stacking game project. 
Notation 
Shields, Horses, and Chariots are identified by the letters S, 
H, and C, respectively. Moves are indicated by “–” for 
moving to an empty space, “+” for landing on a friendly 
piece, and “×” for capturing. Notation of a complete move 
starts with the origin space, followed by a colon. Then the 
submoves follow, separated by commas. Each submove is 
written as “piece(s) move-type target-space”. One’s own 
pieces are written upper case; enemy (i.e. captured) pieces 
lower case. 
Sample Game 
White: Dieter Stein; Black: John Williams; played by email, 
January 2004. 
1. a1:C+b2,HS–c1; (An opening that requires covering c1 in 
a subsequent move.) g2:C+f2,H+f3; (Developing the pieces 
from the rear and also attacking c1.) 2. b2:CHS–c2; (White 
does not want to lose tempo and therefore does not respond 
directly to the threat to c1. c2 now gives strong support for c1 
and also seems to try entering Black’s castle at e3. Black now 
attempts to capture c1. But after f2:C×c1,HS–e2 White could 
capture and block with c2:C×e3,H–d2,S×c1; but going after 
e3 would be foolhardy.) f2:C×c1,HS–e2; (Capturing c1 
seemed worthwhile, since after White recapturing on c1, e2 
could gain a safe stack there and at the same time could enter 
White’s castle at c3.) 3. c2:C×c1,H+c3?,S–d2; (Recapture 
blocked with Shield on d2, but H+c3 is a mistake.) 
e2:H×c3,S–d3; (White did not anticipate that S–d3 
sufficiently supports the capture on c3. With d2:S×d3 Black 
can gain a safe stack on d3 with c3:Hhs×d3, which is a 
strong position although it withdraws an already entered 
stack.) 4. c1:Cc+d2,HS–b1; (A defensive move; White has to 
avoid c3: Never get in a stacking fight in your own castle! 
Black could gain a safe stack on b3 or c4, but that would 
destroy the bridge over d3.) f3:H+e4,H–f2,S+e3; (Additional 
support for d3. Black places another defender for c3 [H+e4], 
an attacker for d2 [H–f2], and e3 [after S+e3] can respond to 
a double capture from d2.) 5. d2:Cc–d1,S×d3; (Black could 
invade with e4:H×c3,S–d4, which depends on the support on 
d3. b2 covers the capture on d3 and also the threat to g1 from 
d1, which is not very strong, because White would have to 
release a black Chariot.) c3:Hhs×d3; (Leaving White’s 
castle, but there is an option to return with d3:Hhss–c3,S+c3. 
That would give Black a safe stack with two of his pieces on 
top. One more [e.g. from e4:H+c3] and White cannot stop 
Black from splitting his pieces off and establishing a winning 
position.) 6. b3:H+c4,S–c3; (Blocking Black’s major threat. 
Black cannot return to c3 with his stack on d3 without 
releasing a strong white stack there. Furthermore, White is 
attacking e3 again [from c4]. And finally, a3:CHS is 
activated now and supports c3 as well. However, b1 will be 
undefended if d1:C×g1.) d3:Hhss–c2,S×c3; (c3 is supported 
by e4, c2 is safe.) 7. a4:CHS–b5! (White—being under 
attack—sees a chance to take the initiative again by 
threatening e4, which is effective because from there Black 
planned to get his third piece for a win.) 
 
Position after 7. a4:CHS–b5 
c3:Ss×c4; (Black ignores the threat and gains his second safe 
stack. This is where the race begins...) 8. b5:C×e4,HS–d5; 
(Again, Black would have to leave White’s castle to capture 
d5 releasing a powerful white stack on c4. The Shields on e3 
are out of reach.) e3:S–d3,S–d4; (Black continues to ignore 
White’s attack since he thinks that the defenders on g3 and g4 
are powerful enough and White would have to release a black 
piece on e4 anyway which would isolate his Chariot.) 
9. a3:C×d3,HS–c3; (If d4:S+c4, then d1:C×g1, which places 
the second white piece in Black’s castle. If d4:S×d3, then 
c3:H+e4,S×d3; finally, if d4:S×c3, then e4:Chs×c3.) 
d4:S×c3; 10. e4:Chs×c3; f4:H–d4,S–e4; (Trying to block 
White’s stacks on c3 and d5.) 11. d5:H×d4,S×e4; (Now the 
Black attackers on c2 and c4 are isolated.) g1:C×d1,HS–e1; 
(Finally capturing d1, liberating his Chariot there and trying 
to regain the attacker’s role.) 12. d3:C×g3; (White is only 
one step ahead now, which is enough to win. The best defense 
would be c4:Ssh×d4, but then b1:H×d1,S–c1, which would 
end with a safe stack for White on d1.) Black resigns. 
 
Final position 
An Accasta Problem 
 
Black to move. White seems to have a comfortable position. 
But his last move c4:S×d5? opens a path for Black to win.  
Solution 
 
g2:C×d5! threatens to win with d5:Cs×a2,H–b3,Ss–c4. But 
White cannot recapture, since c5 has to avoid e6:CHS×b4, 
which is a win for Black in the next turn. Also, d3 cannot 
help, since solely the Horse on top could capture and 
therefore is forced to release a black CHS stack at d3, which 
can easily enter the white castle establishing a winning 
position with d3:C–a3,H–b3,S–c3. Finally, blocking c4 does 
not help either, since Black can always gain a safe stack there 
with his stack on d5. 
