RULEBOOK

1 Gameboard
108 Building Tiles
7 Headquarters Buildings
11 Headquarters Banners
175 Stock Cards 
(25 each of 7 Hotel Chains)
6 Stockholder Info Cards
1 Player Aid Card
1 Money Pack 
(30–$100; 40–$500; 50–$1000; 35–$5000)
GAME CONTENTS
www.renegadegamestudios.com/how-to-play-acquire

HOW TO WIN
You are a shrewd real-estate tycoon with an eye for investing in hotel chains. 
Each time a hotel chain gets acquired, big money will be paid out to the top 
shareholders. The player who makes the most money by buying and selling 
hotel chain stocks wins!
GAME TERMS
You’ll see the following terms used throughout the rules.
Connected Building Tiles
Two or more building tiles that are 
orthogonally adjacent (not diagonally) 
to each other are considered connected.
Independent Building Tile
A building tile that is not adjacent 
to another building tile and/or a tile 
that is part of a group of connected 
tiles in which none of those tiles 
has a headquarters building on it is 
considered independent.
Hotel Chains
A hotel chain consists of two or 
more connected building tiles with a 
headquarters building on one of the 
building tiles.
Active Hotel Chains
A hotel chain with its headquarters on 
the gameboard is considered active.
Safe Hotel Chains
A hotel chain is considered “safe” 
when it is made up of 11 or more 
building tiles. A safe hotel chain can 
never be acquired.
Acquired Hotel Chains
A hotel chain is dissolved when it 
is acquired by a larger chain and 
becomes inactive.
Founding a Hotel Chain
The player who creates a hotel chain 
by joining two or more building tiles 
and placing a headquarters building 
on one of them is considered the 
hotel chain’s founder.
Founder’s Bonus Stock
The founder of a hotel chain is given 
one free stock card for that chain as 
soon as they found it.
Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary
Stockholders
The players who own the most, 
second-most, and third-most stock 
in a hotel chain are considered the 
primary, secondary, and tertiary 
stockholders, respectively. Games 
using Classic Mode only pay out 
stockholder bonuses to primary and 
secondary stockholders, while Tycoon 
Mode pays out to all three.
Stockholder Bonuses
When hotel chains merge, the smaller 
chain is acquired and its building 
tiles become part of the larger 
chain. When this occurs, bonuses 
are handed out to the smaller hotel 
chain’s stockholders in the form of 
money. Stockholder bonuses are also 
handed out at the end of the game.
Merger
When a player places a building tile 
that connects two or more hotel 
chains, a merger occurs. 
Mergemaker
The player who places a building 
tile that connects two or more hotel 
chains is considered the mergemaker.

THE FIRST TIME YOU PLAY
•	 Remove all game components from the shrink-wrap, and discard the waste. 
•	 Remove the headquarters banners from the runner. Insert the banners 
into the headquarters buildings as shown to the right, matching the 
numbers on the runner to the numbered image shown.
SETUP
1.	 Place the gameboard in the center of all players. 
2.	Place the building tiles facedown next to the gameboard and mix them well. 
3.	Choose a player to be the banker. This player will pass out stocks and 
handle money exchanges throughout the game. The banker places the 
seven headquarters buildings and the stock cards, separated by hotel 
chain, in the stock market tray as shown. 
4.	The banker gives each player the following bills for a total of $6,000 each:
Four $1,000 bills 
Three $500 bills 
Five $100 bills 
5.	The banker separates the rest of the bills by denomination and places 
them in four separate piles next to the gameboard. 
6.	Each player gets one stockholder info card and places it in front of them. 
As a group, decide whether stockholder bonuses will be paid to the top 
TWO stockholders (Classic Mode) or the top THREE stockholders (Tycoon 
Mode) during a merger. If this is your first game, we recommend Tycoon 
Mode. All players should flip the info card to the side displaying the 
chosen mode. 
7.	 As a group, decide whether you will display the money and stocks you 
acquire so all players can see them or whether you will keep these a secret. 
If it is your first time playing, we recommend displaying stocks and money. 
The game becomes more challenging when stocks and money are not 
displayed because players must try to remember how much stock each 
player has purchased. 
8.	Decide who will go first. To do so, each player draws a building tile from 
the facedown pile and puts it faceup on the matching letter/number space 
on the gameboard. The player who plays the tile closest to 1A goes first, 
and play moves to the left. (9A is closer to 1A than 1B is.) Leave the tiles on 
the gameboard. (Note that if two or more of these tiles are adjacent to 
each other, they are considered independent. If an additional tile is added 
later, they may become a hotel chain.) 
9.	Each player draws six building tiles and stands the tiles up in front of them 
so other players can’t see the tiles.

Insert the banners into the headquarters buildings, matching the numbers on 
the runner to the numbers shown below.

HOW TO PLAY
On your turn, you’ll perform the following three actions.
1.	 Place a building tile on its matching space.
2.	Buy up to three stocks in any active hotel chains.
3.	Draw a new building tile from the facedown pile. 
You’ll find a more detailed description of each action below. 
1. Place a Building Tile
The tiles represent new hotels. Each turn, you will add one to the game board. 
Choose one of your building tiles, and place it on its matching space on the 
gameboard. For example, the 1A building tile goes on space 1A on the gameboard. 
When you place a building tile, one of the following things will happen:
YOU ADD AN INDEPENDENT BUILDING
If you place a building tile on a space with no 
building tiles adjacent to it, you’ve simply placed 
a building. Nothing else happens.
YOU FOUND A HOTEL CHAIN
If you place a building tile next to any number of building tiles that aren’t 
already part of a hotel chain, you’ll found a new hotel chain. Those building tiles 
are now considered a founded hotel chain.
You place building tile 6F next to 
building tile 7F. The adjacent building 
tiles form a hotel chain.
Here you place a building tile between 
two independent building tiles. The three 
adjacent building tiles form a hotel chain. 

Immediately do the following:
1.	 Choose a headquarters building from 
the stock market tray, and place it on 
any of the new connected building tiles. 
2.	Take one stock card for that hotel chain. 
This is your founder’s bonus! 
If all seven headquarters buildings are already in play on the board, 
you may not place a building tile that will found a new hotel chain. You may, 
however, be able to play that tile later in the game if a headquarters 
building becomes available or if the tile would add on to an existing hotel 
chain or cause a merger.
YOU MAKE A HOTEL CHAIN LARGER
If you place a building tile next to any tile that is already part of a hotel chain, 
you have simply added a tile to that chain, making it one tile larger.
The building tile you’re placing 
is adjacent to an existing hotel 
chain, so that chain grows larger.

YOU MERGE TWO OR MORE HOTEL CHAINS TOGETHER
If you place a building tile so that it connects two or more hotel chains, those 
hotel chains will merge and the smaller chain—that is, the one with fewer 
building tiles—becomes part of the larger chain. Remember, a hotel chain 
with eleven or more building tiles is safe and cannot be absorbed by another 
chain. Two safe hotel chains cannot merge.
The building tile you’re placing is 
adjacent to building tiles in two different 
hotel chains, so those two chains merge.
The building tile you’re placing is adjacent 
to building tiles in three different hotel 
chains, so all three merge together.
The building tile you’re placing is not 
adjacent to any building tiles—it is 
on a diagonal—so there is no merger. 
But it will greatly increase the chances 
of those hotel chains merging in 
the future.

When you merge two hotel chains, immediately do the following: 
1.	 Count the building tiles in each of the hotel chains involved. Do not count 
the building tile that caused the merger. You may temporarily flip the 
merging tile over so it is not accidentally counted. Once the merger is 
complete, flip it faceup. 
2.	Remove the headquarters building from the smaller hotel chain and 
return it to the game tray. The smaller hotel chain has been acquired, and 
its building tiles are now part of the larger chain. If the hotel chains are the 
same size, the mergemaker gets to decide which chain survives and which 
one is acquired. 
3.	Distribute stockholder bonuses for the acquired hotel chain as described 
on the next page. Note that there are no payouts for stock in the surviving 
hotel chain, but the value of its stock may go up because the chain has 
grown larger due to the merger. 
4.	Starting with the mergemaker and moving clockwise, players with stock 
in the hotel chain that was acquired must do one or more of the following 
with that stock: 
1.	 Keep it in hand with the hope that a new hotel chain with the same 
name will be founded later in the game. 
2.	Sell it back to the bank for the price indicated on the info card. The 
hotel chain’s name and size determine the selling price. 
3.	Trade it in. For every two stocks from the acquired hotel chain, you get 
one stock in the surviving chain from the stock market tray. 
When you merge three or more hotel chains, the largest one survives and the 
smaller ones are acquired. The mergemaker breaks any ties. The smaller 
corporations are dealt with, one at a time, from largest to smallest. 
Stockholder bonuses are paid out as described on the next page. Stock in 
each acquired hotel chain is kept, sold, or traded, as described above. As 
usual, the mergemaker goes first.
2. Buy Stocks
After you place a building tile and resolve any mergers, you may (you don’t 
have to) buy up to three stocks in any active hotel chains from the stock market 
tray. You can buy multiple stocks in the same hotel chain and/or buy stocks in 
multiple chains during the same turn. Stock prices depend on the name and 
size of the hotel chain. When purchasing stock, players must announce what 
they are buying and how much they are paying. This is to help ensure that 
players don’t make mistakes with stock costs. At any time during the game, a 
player may ask how many stocks are in the stock market tray for any hotel chain.

DETERMINING THE PRICE OF STOCKS
To determine the price of a given stock: 
1.	 Find the name of that hotel chain 
on the stockholder info card. 
2.	Look down the “Hotel Chain 
Size” column for that hotel chain 
and find the numbered row that 
corresponds with the number 
of building tiles currently in that 
hotel chain. 
3.	Read across that row to find the 
“Buy/Sell Price Per Stock Card.”
Do this for each hotel chain you’d like to buy stock in; then, pay the 
appropriate amount to the bank.
RUNNING OUT OF MONEY
It is possible to run out of money. If you run out of money, you may still place 
and draw building tiles each turn, but you may not purchase stock. You must 
wait until you receive a stockholder bonus or sell stocks in a hotel chain that has 
been acquired to get money. You can’t sell stocks in an active hotel chain at any 
point in the game, and no loans—either from players or the bank—are allowed.
Avoid running out of money by investing wisely. You don’t have to be the 
majority stockholder in every corporation in order to win the game.
3. Draw a Building Tile
At the end of your turn, draw a building tile from the facedown pile.
At the end of your turn, you may also check your building tiles to see if 
you have any that are unplayable. An unplayable building tile is one that 
would merge two or more safe hotel chains (which is not possible). Set any 
unplayable building tiles you have to the side (faceup) so they are out of play. 
Then, draw that many building tiles from the facedown pile. If you receive new 
unplayable building tiles, you must wait until your next turn to discard them.
Note that building tiles that would form an eighth corporation are not 
considered unplayable, but cannot be played until there is a headquarters 
building available off the gameboard.

DISTRIBUTING STOCKHOLDER BONUSES
When you are determining stockholder bonuses for mergers, the merging 
building tile does not add to the size of either hotel chain. To determine 
stockholder bonuses, do the following: 
1.	 Determine who gets a bonus: Each player reveals the exact number of 
stocks they own in the hotel chain that was acquired. The players with the 
most, second-most, and third-most stocks are the primary, secondary, 
and tertiary stockholders, respectively. Players with no stocks in that hotel 
chain do not receive a bonus. 
A SINGLE STOCKHOLDER
Classic Mode: If only one player owns stock in the acquired hotel chain, 
that player receives the primary and secondary bonuses.
Tycoon Mode: If only one player owns stock in the acquired hotel chain, 
that player receives the primary and tertiary bonuses.
A TIE
Classic Mode: If there is a tie for primary shareholder, add the primary and 
secondary bonuses together, divide it evenly, and pay the bonus (rounded 
up to the nearest hundred) to the tied players. The secondary shareholder 
gets no bonus.
If there is a tie for secondary shareholder, split the bonus among the tied 
players, rounding up to the nearest hundred.
Tycoon Mode: If there is a tie for primary stockholder, add the primary and 
secondary stockholder bonuses together, and divide by two. Round up to 
the nearest hundred if needed. The tied players receive that amount as 
a bonus, the secondary stockholder receives the tertiary bonus, and the 
tertiary stockholder receives no bonus. 
If there is a tie for secondary stockholder, add the secondary and tertiary 
stockholder bonuses together, divide by two, and round up if needed. 
The tied players receive that amount as a bonus, and the player/s with the 
third-most stocks receive no bonus.
If there is a tie for tertiary stockholder, the tied players split the tertiary 
bonus. Round up if needed.

2.	The banker pays out bonuses from the bank according to the 
stockholder info card. Here’s how to read the info card: 
1.	 Find the name of the hotel chain that was just acquired. 
2.	Look down the “Hotel Chain Size” column for that hotel chain and 
find the numbered row that corresponds with the number of building 
tiles that were in that chain. 
3.	Read across that row to find the primary, secondary, and tertiary 
shareholder bonuses for that hotel chain and size.
Here are some examples of how to determine who gets what bonus.
For the examples on the next page, imagine that Festival and Imperial have 
merged. Festival was the larger hotel chain because it had seven tiles and Imperial 
had only five, so Imperial has been acquired and its tiles become part of Festival.

A STANDARD MERGER
To determine stockholder bonuses, the players now count how many stocks 
they each own in Imperial. Liz owns three, Charlie owns two, and Courtney 
owns none. Because Liz has the most stocks, she gets the primary stockholder 
bonus. Charlie has the second-most, so he gets the secondary bonus. 
Courtney has no stocks in Imperial, so she gets no bonus. According to the 
chart on the stockholder info cards (see previous page), because Liz owns the 
most stock in Imperial and Imperial had five tiles, her primary shareholder 
bonus is 7000. Charlie’s secondary bonus is 5000. 
Sometimes, multiple players will have the same number of stocks in a hotel 
chain that has been acquired, and there will be a tie. Here are some examples 
of how to determine stockholder bonuses for ties using the above example 
merger between Festival and Imperial in a Tycoon Mode game.
A TIE FOR PRIMARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns three stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns three, and Courtney 
owns one. Liz and Charlie are tied for the primary bonus. Because Imperial 
had five tiles, the primary stockholder bonus is 7000 and the secondary 
stockholder bonus is 5000. Because they are tied, Liz and Charlie add the 
primary and secondary bonuses together (this equals 12000), and they split 
that value to get 6000 each. Courtney has the third highest stock count in 
Imperial, so she only gets the tertiary bonus of 3500.
A TIE FOR SECONDARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns three stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns two, and Courtney 
owns two. Because Imperial had five tiles, the primary bonus is 7000, and 
Liz gets that. The secondary bonus is 5000 and the tertiary bonus is 3500. 
Because they were tied for second, Charlie and Courtney add the secondary 
and tertiary bonuses together (this equals 8500), and they split that value to 
get 4300 each. If a fourth player, Amanda, owned one stock, that player would 
have the fourth highest stock count in Imperial and would not get a bonus.
A TIE FOR TERTIARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns four stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns three, Courtney owns 
one, and Amanda also owns one. Liz gets the primary bonus of 7000. Charlie 
gets the secondary bonus of 5000. Because they are tied for the third highest 
stock count in Imperial, Courtney and Amanda split the tertiary bonus, which 
is 3500. So Courtney and Amanda each get a bonus of 1800.

THE END OF THE GAME
The game ends when one player announces during their turn that either all 
active hotel chains are safe or that one active hotel chain is made up of 41 or 
more building tiles. A player does not have to announce that the game is over 
if it is to their advantage to keep playing—for example, to enlarge a hotel 
chain they own stock in. After making this announcement, that player finishes 
their turn as normal, then the game ends. 
As soon as the game ends, do the following:
1.	 Pay out primary, secondary (and tertiary, if playing Tycoon Mode) stockholder 
bonuses for all active hotel chains according to the stockholder info card, 
the way you would pay out bonuses after a merger. 
2.	Players sell all their stocks back to the bank at a price determined by the 
hotel chain’s name and size, as noted on the info card. Stocks in a hotel 
chain not on the board are worth nothing. 
3.	Each player adds up their money, and the player with the most money 
wins! If there is a tie, the victory is shared.
RARE CASES
Founding a Hotel Chain with Zero Stock Available
If a player places a building tile that would found a hotel chain, but all of that 
hotel chain’s stock is already taken, the founding player gets the founding 
bonus in cash payment equal to the value of the stock at the time of founding.
Incorrect Building Tile Placement
If a tile is placed in the wrong spot on the board and discovered on the turn it 
was placed, then it’s moved to the correct location. When an incorrect placement 
is discovered from a prior turn, that tile will remain in its current location. If the 
correct tile is held by a player, then exchange it for the incorrect tile.
Only Two Stockholders in Tycoon Mode
If there are only two stockholders when resolving stockholder bonuses in 
Tycoon Mode, the tertiary bonus is ignored.

ACQUIRE, AVALON HILL, and HASBRO and all related trademarks and logos are trademarks of Hasbro, Inc. © 2023 Hasbro. 
©2023 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Wizards of the Coast and its logo are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC.
For additional information or support, please visit us online: www.renegadegames.com
 /PlayRGS | 
 @PlayRenegade | 
 @Renegade_Game_Studios | 
 /RenegadeGameStudios
CREDITS
Game Designer: Sid Sackson
Senior Producer of Board & Card Games: 
Dan Bojanowski
Director of Visual Design: Anita Osburn
Illustrator: Eric Hibbeler
Graphic Designer: Anita Osburn
Editor: William Niebling
Production Artist: Noelle Lopez
3D Artist: David L’Huillier 
Expert Consultants: Thomas Haver 
& John Kaufeld
RENEGADE GAME STUDIOS
President & Publisher: Scott Gaeta
Vice President Sales & Marketing: Sara Erickson
Controller: Robyn Gaeta
Director of Operations: Leisha Cummins
Associate Project Manager: Katie Gjesdahl
Sales Manager: Kaitlin Ellis
E-Commerce: Nick Medinger
Sales & Marketing Program Manager: 
Matt Holland
Community Manager: Jordan Gaeta
Senior Producer of Board & Card Games: 
Dan Bojanowski
Associate Producer, Board & Card Games: 
Jimmy Le
Associate Producer, RPGs: Kevin Schluter
Lead Developer, World of Darkness: 
Juhana Pettersson
Product Developer, RPGs: Jason Keeley
Senior Game Designer: Matt Hyra
Game Designers: Dan Blanchett 
& Christopher Chung
Director of Visual Design: Anita Osburn
Creative Director, Games: Jeanne Torres
Creative Director, RPGs: Sarah Robinson
Creative Production: Todd Crapper, 
Noelle Lopez, & Gordon Tucker
Video Production Associate: Katie Schmitt
Customer Service Manager: Jenni Janikowski
Customer Service: Bethany Bauthues
Finance Clerk: Madeline Minervini

STOCK MARKET TIPS
•	 Diversify! Receiving primary, secondary, and tertiary stockholder bonuses 
is an excellent way to make money. 
•	 Keep an eye on the smaller active hotel chains. Try to have the most or the 
second-most stocks in these chains. 
•	 You may not want to buy lots of stock in a hotel chain that is positioned on 
the edge of the gameboard or away from other chains. You may want to 
invest in hotel chains that are more likely to merge so that you may receive 
a stockholder bonus. 
•	 Toward the end of the game, you may want to own stock in larger hotel 
chains as they will most likely survive to the end of the game, and you’ll 
receive stockholder bonuses for stocks you own in them. 
•	 When a smaller hotel chain you own stock in is acquired by a larger one, it 
can be a good idea to trade in the acquired stocks for stocks in the larger 
chain as it may survive to the end of the game. 
•	 Founding a “new” hotel chain that is already largely owned by other players 
(who held onto their stock after a merger) will benefit them much more 
than it will benefit you. However, if there are several places to start a new 
hotel chain, better you get the founder’s bonus stock than someone else!
PLAYING A TWO-PLAYER GAME
When playing a two-player game, follow the rules for the core game using 
the Classic Mode side of the Stockholder Info Card, but follow the rules below 
when mergers occur:
1.	 When determining stockholder bonuses, consider the stock market as an 
additional stockholder with a random number of shares. To determine how 
much stock the stock market holds in the acquired hotel chain, draw a building 
tile from the facedown pile. If 9F is drawn, the stock market owns nine stocks. 
If 2B is drawn, the stock market owns two. It doesn’t matter if the total number 
of stocks (the stock market’s plus the players’) exceeds twenty-five. 
2.	Pay out bonuses only to the two largest stockholders according to the 
stockholder info card. Any bonuses that would go to the stock market stay 
in the bank. 
3.	 Return the drawn building tile facedown to the pile and remix the building tiles. 
4.	At the end of the game, the stock market competes in the same way for 
bonuses in active hotel chains.