A strategy board game for 2 players designed by
Néstor Romeral Andrés.
INTRODUCTION
Adaptoid is a board game for two players. Each game
lasts around 20 minutes.
An adaptoid is a creature that constantly evolves to
adapt itself to its surroundings. To survive it needs to be
fed. In adaptoid, two players must confront their
armies of adaptoids with the aim of eliminating the
opponent. 
MATERIAL
This is what you need in order to play adaptoid:
A hexagonal board with 37 circles like this one:
12 white adaptoids, 12 white legs, and 12
white pincers:
 
 
12 black adaptoids, 12 black legs, and 12
black pincers:
 
 
5 white counters and 5 black counters (for 
scoring).
GAME PREPARATION
Determinate randomly the colours of the players (black
or white), and then position the board in the middle of
the table. Each player takes his pieces (adaptoids,
legs and pincers). Finally, each player positions one of
his adaptoids (without legs and pincers) as it is shown
on the image. Other initial positions are permitted upon
agreement.
The game can start now. The white player plays first. 
GAME RULES
Alternately, each player must do the following one by
one in order:
1.
If you want and can, move one of your
adaptoids 
(see MOVEMENT AND
CAPTURE). This can originate the capture
of an enemy adaptoid. 
2.
Create a new adaptoid of your colour
OR add a leg or a pincer to one of your
adaptoids on the board (see CREATING
AN ADAPTOID or ADDING LEGS AND
PINCERS).
3.
Capture simultaneously (by moving away
from the board) all the enemy adaptoids
which are not fed (see FEEDING THE
ADAPTOIDS).
Once this process is completed, the turn goes to the
other player.
Let’s see this in more detail:
MOVEMENT AND CAPTURE
An adaptoid can move up to as many free spaces as
the number of legs it has (in any direction, and not
necessarily in a straight line). Notice that, at the start of
the game, none of the adaptoids can move, as they
have no legs.
An adaptoid cannot go through an already occupied
space; however it can finish its itinerary on a space
already occupied by its enemy. When this last happens,
the player with higher number of pincers will capture the
enemy’s adaptoid and he will remove it from the
board. If both adaptoids have the same number of
pincers, then both will be removed from the board.
Note: An adaptoid with no pincers cannot capture.
Captured pieces can be used again during the game.
Record your captures by taking the discs of the
opponent’s colour.

The adaptoid 1 cannot move because it doesn’t have
any legs.
The adaptoid 2 can move up to three spaces (spaces
marked with a green ‘2’) because it has three legs. But
it cannot reach any of the spaces marked with a red ‘X’.
The adaptoid 2 can capture adaptoid 3, but cannot
capture adaptoid 4, as it has more pincers.
CREATING AN ADAPTOID
In order to create an adaptoid, a new one must be
positioned on the board (without legs and without
pincers) on any empty space which is located next to
another adaptoid of the same colour.
Example: A new white adaptoid can be created on any
of the spaces marked with a green ‘+’
ADDING LEGS AND PINCERS
In order to add a leg or a pincer to an adaptoid
already positioned on the board, you just have to insert
the corresponding piece in one of the free slots of the
adpatoid. An adaptoid can have as many legs or
pincers as you want, maximum 6 in total. It´s possible to
create 28 different adaptoids! 
Example: adding a leg
FEEDING THE ADAPTOIDS
The adaptoids must always be fed to survive. The
biggest adaptoids need more food than the small
ones. In order to feed an adaptoid, it must be
surrounded by at least as many free spaces as the total
number of extremities it has (legs and pincers together)
It is white’s turn to capture the enemy adaptoids which
have not been fed.
Black adaptoid 1 has 5 extremities but it is surrounded
only by 4 free spaces, so it must be removed from the
board. The same happens to the adaptoid number 2,
which has 4 extremities, but it is only surrounded by 3
free spaces.
The white player scores 2 captures.
AIM AND END OF THE GAME 
The aim of the game is to capture at least 5 enemy
adaptoids. The first player, who achieves this
objective, will win the game. A player loses also if all of
his adaptoids are removed from the board. In case of
a tie, the player that made the last move wins.
SUPER-ADAPTOID VARIANT
You need a SUPER-ADAPTOID set to play this variant.
You can configure you own board before starting the
game, by using the 37 discs included in the SUPER-
ADAPTOID edition.
Notes:
An Adaptoid must be surrounded by at least as many
free ‘discs’ as the total number of extremities it has
(legs and pincers together) to survive. The board
doesn’t need to have an hexagonal distribution.
Example (the number on the cells indicates the
surrounding discs):

STRATEGY TIPS
Don’t read this if you prefer to discover the strategies by
yourself!
Definitions:
Liberties: Number of free surrounding cells of a given
Adaptoid.
Size: Number of parts of a given Adaptoid.
Remember that if Size is bigger than Liberties the
adaptoid is dead.
Balance:
Adaptoid is based on ‘balance’. ‘Balance’ is the core of 
it and the concept that generated the game.
So the more balanced your strategy is, the better. This 
means:
1- Don’t let your adaptoids grow too big.
2- Don’t leave your small adaptoids unprotected.
3- Keep your total liberties as high as possible.
4- Material advantage is NOT important. Positional
advantage IS (liberties).
Useful tactics:
The ‘fork’
I call it the ‘fork’ until I find a better name. The goal of
this tactic is to capture a more powerful adaptoid that
has liberties=parts+1, by using a weaker one that has at
least 1 leg and that can reach a free space adjacent to
the enemy adaptoid.
Procedure:
1.- Move the adaptoid to a free space adjacent to the
enemy adaptoid.
2.- Create a new adaptoid next to one of yours (as
stated in the rules) and adjacent to the enemy adaptoid.
3.- Now the enemy adaptoid has lost 2 liberties, so
liberties=parts-1. The enemy adaptoid is captured.
(I’ve managed to capture 2 adaptoids at the same time
with this movement)
The ‘siege’
The ‘siege’ consists in creating a wall the enemy cannot
cross. So the enemy keeps growing until all its liberies
are exhaused.
The ‘reserve’
Keep a naked adaptoid on your back line. This way you
can prevent your front line adaptoids from growing too
much, by simply creating new adaptoids next to the
naked one. But watch out! If the enemy crosses your
lines, it'll be a massacre.
The ‘tail’
This is a powerful technique when used correctly. It
consists in creating a chain of base adaptoids (no parts)
across the border of the board to reach the opponents
back line. The best places to have a base adaptoid are
the corners. The spaces adjacent to a line of adaptoids
have 4 liberties at most (3 if on a corner). Any adjacent
enemy adaptoid that wants to capture them needs at
least one leg and one pincer, leaving only 2 liberties (1
if on a corner). This makes the enemy adaptoids more
vulnerable.
The ‘kamikaze’
Don’t let your gigantic adaptoids die of starvation. Use
them ASAP to capture an enemy adaptoid, even if it's
protected or it has the same number of pincers (so both
are removed).