In a world of savage chaos, five combatants are locked inside a futuristic arena. 
Armed with sophisticated weaponry, their mission is to kill or be killed.
Hopeless though the situation seems, the dauntless warriors race rat-like through their 
maze, blasting anything that moves. Bullets rip through armor and flesh. Screams of pain 
are drowned by deafening booms of gunfire and explosions.
What have these brave heroes done to deserve such torment? Are they criminals? 
Psychopaths? Or are they simply decent men and women and aliens and robots who have 
pushed too hard against a military-industrialist-preapocalyptic-pseudopsychological-
government-funded-corporate-climate-change-conspiracy establishment that knows 
how to push back?
Sadly, they have been fighting so long, they no longer know the answer. They can't even 
remember the question. Yet they continue to fight and struggle and die in the name 
of a cause that has long been forgotten, till, weary with fatigue from a mood-setting 
introduction that has already gone on way too long now, they ultimately succumb to the 
inevitable icy grasp of the cold, dark, bony fingers of death.
Then they respawn, because, hey, that's just the way the world works. Not sure why. Also, 
why are all these guns hovering in midair? That can't be right. Shouldn't guns be kept in a 
locked cabinet or something? And there's ammunition lying around everywhere. This is not 
a safe working environment.
Anyway, the point is that the future is very grim and full of darkness and this means it's 
okay to just shoot people for no good reason. It's called a "gritty atmosphere". That seems 
very popular these days, so we thought we should make a dark and gritty board game. 
Although, chocolate candy bars are also dark, and we don't think people would like them 
too much if they were gritty.
Oh my! So much gloom and doom! 
I'm quaking in my stylish armored boots!
Don't worry about the background stuff. 
The truth is, Adrenaline is a game. 
It's fun. And no one really dies – 
at least, not for long.
Turn the page and I'll show you how to play!
CHECK OUT THE 
HOW-TO-PLAY 
VIDEO BY
http://cge.as/adrv

Get your stuff. Your figure, your board, your action tile, and your damage tokens 
are all the same color. 
2 .	
Take 3 ammo cubes of each ammo color.
Put 1 ammo cube of each color in your ammo box.
Make an action-hero comment indicating you are ready to play. 
"Lock and load!" is traditional, but feel free to improvise.
The game board is made of two double-
sided pieces, which can make 4 different 
arenas.
good for 3 or 4 players
good for any number of players
good for 4 or 5 players
1 	 Choose two sides to make your game board.
2 	 Place 5 to 8 skulls on the killshot track. We recommend 5 skulls for your first game. 
A normal game uses 8 skulls.
3 	 Shuffle the powerup cards and place them on the game board in a face-down stack.
4 	 Shuffle the weapon cards and place them on the game board in a face-down stack.
5 	 Deal three weapons face up to each spawnpoint.
6 	 Place the point tokens on or near the board.
7 	 Mix the ammo tiles and stack them face down near the game board.
8 	 Deal one ammo tile to each square of the game board that does not 
have a spawnpoint.
9 	 Choose a starting player. Give him or her the starting player marker.
killshot track with 5 to 8 skulls
ammo stacks
player board
This side up!
action tile
This side up!
damage tokens
figure
starting player 
marker
ammo tiles 
dealt randomly
red 
square
Your first game has 5 skulls and a 
sudden death ending. It's a quick 
way to learn the game, and you 
get to shoot lots of cool weapons. 
Don't worry about points too 
much. Just have fun. The game is 
balanced for 8 skulls and a final 
frenzy ending, so once you know 
how things work, you should try it 
that way.
SETUP STEPS
PLAYER SETUP

The object of the game is to get the most points.
This board configuration works 
well for any number of players.
powerup 
deck
weapons 
deck
weapons dealt 
randomly
point tokens
ammo cubes
ammo box
blue 
yellow 
door
room
OBJECT OF THE GAME
:D-STRUCT-0R
favorite beverage: 5W-30
hobbies: tennis, bowling, sheet-metal origami 
favorite board game: Robo Rally
beloved pet: a cordless drill
BANSHEE
home planet: unknown
guilty pleasure: karaoke
perfect date: a long walk by the ocean – 
or in the ocean
siblings: 900 sisters all the same age
Duh! Of course the object is to get the most points. The cool 
part is you get points by shooting really big guns!!!

On your very first turn of the game, you start by determining your spawnpoint:
Draw 2 powerup cards.
Choose 1 to keep.
Reveal the other and put your figure on the spawnpoint 
with that color.
Discard the revealed card.
Tip: Powerups are explained in the Adrenaline Weapons 
Manual. Before your first game it is absolutely imperative 
that you read the description of each powerup thoroughly. 
Failure to fully grasp all the strategic ramifications of this 
crucial choice may greatly diminish your chances of victory.
STARTING THE GAME
SPAWN LOCATION
YOUR TURN
Players take turns, beginning with the starting player, and continuing around the table clockwise. 
Figures will come onto the board one at a time and remain on the board for the rest of the game.
special effect
extra ammo
spawnpoint color
Each powerup card has 3 potential uses:
Just 
pick one!
AS SOON AS YOU ARE ON THE BOARD, 
TAKE A NORMAL TURN, AS DESCRIBED BELOW.
DOZER
background: paramilitary covert ops
specialty: hurting people
other interests: breaking stuff
testosterone level: high
RUN AROUND
On your turn, you take 2 actions.
You have 3 to choose from:
Actions can be taken in any order. 
You can choose the same one twice.
GRAB STUFF
SHOOT PEOPLE
At the end of your turn, you can reload.
In this game, whacking someone with 
a sledgehammer still counts as "shooting people". 
Just go with it, okay?

 RUN AROUND
 GRAB STUFF
Use the Run Around action to move 1, 2, or 3 squares.
 MOVE
A move follows these intuitive rules:
A move is always from one square to an adjacent square 
(not diagonally).
You can move through a door but not through a wall.
See the example on the right.
Every square has stuff. Use this action to grab it. This action includes a free move. You can either:
A.	
Move one square and grab the stuff in that new square.
B.	
Or stay and grab the stuff in your current square.
You can't grab stuff and then move as part of the same action.
Once you grab something, it is gone, but new stuff will replace it at the end of your turn.
 GRAB AMMO
Every square that is not a spawnpoint offers ammo. To grab ammo in your square:
Remove the ammo tile.
Move the depicted cubes into your ammo box.
If the tile depicts a powerup card, draw one.
Discard the tile.
LIMITS ON AMMO AND POWERUPS
Your ammo box never holds more than 3 cubes of each color. Excess ammo depicted on the tile is wasted.
Similarly, you can have at most 3 powerups. If a card depicted on the ammo tile would put you over this 
limit, do not draw it.
 GRAB A WEAPON
If you are on a spawnpoint, you can grab a weapon: 
Choose 1 of the spawnpoint's 3 weapons.
Pay the cost.
Take it into your hand. It is now loaded.
The cost is depicted in the upper left corner of the card. When you grab the weapon, the top cube is 
already paid for and you must pay the remainder of the cost. If you cannot pay, you cannot grab the 
weapon.
PAYING AN AMMO COST
To pay an ammo cost, remove the depicted cubes from your player board and set them nearby.
Instead of moving a cube, you can pay all or part of an ammo cost by discarding a powerup card that 
depicts the required cube.
WEAPON LIMITS
If you already have 3 weapons, you must drop one when you grab the new one. To drop a weapon, put 
it in the empty space left by the weapon you are grabbing. You can drop a loaded or unloaded weapon. 
It automatically becomes partially loaded – anyone (including you) can grab it later in the game for 
the usual cost.
The rules for moving are not just for the 
Run Around action. They apply any time you 
move anyone's figure.
These squares are 1, 2, or 3 moves away from Banshee.
Ammo from this tile goes into ammo box.
From this tile, only 1 red cube can go in. 
The ammo box holds only 3 of each color.
RAILGUN
GRENADE LAUNCHER
When you grab this weapon from a spawnpoint, 
you pay no cubes. It comes fully loaded.
When you grab this weapon, 
you pay 1 yellow and 1 blue cube. 
The top yellow cube is already loaded.

To shoot people:
Play a weapon card from your hand.
Specify one or more targets.
Pay any additional costs.
Hand out damage and resolve any 
other relevant effects.
When you play a weapon card place it face up on the 
table in front of you. It is now unloaded. It will stay 
there until you reload it, which you may be able to do 
at the end of your turn.
Your choice of targets is determined by your weapon 
and the positions of the figures on the board. This 
is explained in detail in the Adrenaline Weapons 
Manual. To Shoot People, you need at least one target.
Each weapon has a basic effect that you paid for 
when you put the card in your hand. Some have 
optional effects or alternate fire modes, which may 
have additional costs. You pay an additional cost 
the same way you paid the cost to put the weapon in 
your hand – by removing the depicted cube from your 
ammo box or by discarding a powerup that depicts 
that cube.
 Damage is represented by damage 
tokens in your color. Give the indicated 
number of damage tokens to your target. 
Your target places the tokens on his or 
her board as shown in the examples on 
the right. It is possible to give damage to 
multiple targets with one action.
DAMAGE AND 
ADRENALINE ACTIONS
Your board is divided into 4 zones. If it has 0, 1, or 2 
points of damage, you use the normal actions on your 
turn.
If your board has 3 or more points of 
damage, your Grab Stuff action improves. 
When you use it, you can move up to 
2 squares before grabbing. 
 If your board has at least 6 damage, your 
Shoot People action also improves. As part 
of that action, you can move 1 square before 
shooting.
You are not required to use the adrenaline action's 
extra move. Note that it is still not possible to grab-
then-move or shoot-then-move with one action. 
As with normal actions, it is legal to use the same 
adrenaline action twice in one turn.
When you get shot, 
you get faster!
Yeah! This is the best part! Here's what happens 
when I give 2 damage to :D-struct-0R ...
Ha! Killshot!
Eat three, :D-struct-0R!
I give you 2 more damage. Embrace the pain!
 SHOOT PEOPLE
A few turns later ...
Violet shot :D-struct-0R first. She gets 1 point for first blood.
Banshee and Dozer each dealt four damage. Banshee's token is first, 
so she gets 8 points. Dozer gets 6 points. Violet is third. She gets 4 points.
:D-struct-0R's board will get a skull. 
The next time he is scored, he will be worth fewer points.

KILLSHOT
The 11th point of damage is the killshot. A board with 11 damage will 
be scored at the end of the turn. (Which means you might have time 
to give it a 12th!)
SCORING
At the end of your turn, score all boards that have taken killshots:
First blood! The player who shot that board first gets 1 point.
Damage! The player who has the most damage on that board gets 8 points. 
The player with the second most gets 6. And so on, as depicted on the board. 
Tie breaker: If multiple players dealt the same amount of damage, break the tie in 
favor of the player whose damage landed first.
Killshot! Killshots will play a role in final scoring. Take the damage token from the 
11th space and put it on the killshot track of the main game board. It replaces the 
leftmost skull.
Death! Take that skull from the killshot track and put it on the 8 pentagon below 
the dead board's damage track. The next time that player's board is scored, it will be 
worth fewer points. Details on the next page.
Overkill? A 12th point of damage counts as overkill. If the board has a 12th damage 
token, put it on the killshot track on the same space as the killshot token. This plays 
a role in final scoring. Damage over 12 is wasted.
Revenge mark? Killing is okay, but overkill is just insulting. If you overkill a player, 
that player will give you a mark representing his or her desire for revenge. Marks and 
overkill are explained on on the following pages.
 Double kill? If you deal multiple killshots on your turn, you get 1 extra 
point. And you are awesome.
POINT TOKENS
Your points are represented by tokens you take from the bank. You can make change, 
if necessary. Point tokens are kept near your board face down. 
DEATH AND RESPAWN
If you receive a killshot, tip your figure over. At the end of the active player's turn:
Hand out points to everyone who shot you, as explained above.
Remove all damage (and hand the tokens back).
Pick up your figure. You are dead.
Draw one powerup card, even if you already have three.
5.	
Discard one of your powerup cards with no effect and place your 
figure on the spawnpoint indicated by it. You are alive again.
If you have any marks (see next page) those will remain on your player board. You 
keep all your weapons and ammo. Loaded weapons remain loaded, and unloaded 
weapons remain unloaded.
Your damage is reset to zero, so you no longer have access to adrenaline actions. 
But don't worry. You'll get shot again soon.
points for damage
first blood
Dozer's killshot token will 
go to the killshot track.
killshot
death
revenge 
mark
overkill

MARKING A TARGET
Some weapons, powerups, and game mechanics allow 
you to mark other players. This represents a potential 
for extra damage – because you gain knowledge about 
your targets, or you track them in some way, or perhaps 
just because you really really want to hurt them. 
When you mark a target, hand the player one of your 
damage tokens and say, "I mark you!"
A mark is not damage. The player receiving the mark puts the token in 
the box above his or her damage track.
The next time you take an action that does damage to the marked 
player, all of your marks are added to the damage track along with 
the usual damage.
If you deal marks and damage as part of one action, resolve the 
damage first. This moves all of your old marks onto the damage 
track. Now add the new marks. They can be triggered only on a later 
action.
Marks do not count during scoring. They remain on the board even 
after the player respawns.
LIMITS ON MARKS
You can have at most 3 marks on another player's board. Any marks 
that would exceed this total are wasted.
Note: This means your board can have up to 3 marks from each other 
player.
OVERKILL
 The 11th point of damage is the killshot. The 12th is 
overkill. This is a game about shooting people, so 
overkill is rewarded. The 12th point of damage 
counts when determining who did the most damage, 
and it will go up to the killshot track (on the same 
space as the killshot) which may be important at the 
end of the game.
WASTED DAMAGE
Any damage beyond the 12th point is wasted. If you deal damage 
that would take your opponent beyond overkill, give him or her only 
enough to reach overkill. If your marks turn into damage that would 
exceed overkill, your opponent hands you back your excess marks.
REVENGE MARK
If you deal overkill, your victim gives you a mark. This is just like 
a mark from a weapon or powerup.
DIMINISHING VALUES
The first time a board is scored, the reward for dealing the most 
damage is 8, 6, 4, and 2 points. The board receives a skull on the 8. 
The skull indicates that the board is now worth fewer points. 
The second time a board is scored, the reward for most damage is 
6, 4, 2, and 1. The board receives a skull on the 6.
The third time, it is worth 4, 2, 1, and 1. And so on. 
Only players who did damage score points.
Each player who did damage scores at least 1 point.
Each skull reduces the reward for giving that board 
the most damage.
Take that! 2 damage! 1 mark!
:D-struct-0R has respawned. Yay! I can shoot him again! 
This time I'll use my ZX-2 which deals 1 point of damage 
and 2 marks.
A stray shot from my machine gun deals 1. 
And the 2 marks become 2 additional damage! 
Then on Violet's turn ...
After more damage and marks, 
the board looks like this ...

Yesss! I use my ZX-2 again. Here's what 
happens to the marks: 
0. Nothing happens to Dozer's mark.
1. One of my old marks becomes overkill.
2. The other old mark is wasted.
3. Two new marks are added. They will 
still be on the board, with Dozer's mark, 
after :D-struct-0R respawns.
VIOLET
profession: shooting instructor
nail polish: always perfect
favorite snack: chips and salsa
favorite weapon: anything that goes Boom!
SPROG
origins: claims to be from Texas
disposition: surly
turn-ons: crickets, flat rocks, and heat lamps
turn-offs: lotion commercials that say "dry, scaly 
skin" like it's a bad thing

HEATSEEKER
1.	
Reload as many weapons as you want.
	
To reload you must pay the full reload cost – all the cubes depicted in the upper left corner of 
the card. You may pay this cost with cubes and/or powerup cards.
2.	
Score all player boards that received a killshot.
	
Scoring has already been explained.
Replace any stuff you took.
	
Replace ammo tiles with new tiles from the ammo stacks. If you empty the stacks, shuffle the 
discard pile (including any tiles you grabbed this turn) and make new ammo stacks.
	
Replace weapons by drawing from the weapons deck. If the deck is empty, no new weapons will 
appear for the rest of the game.
Your first game ends when the last skull is taken. Skip over the Final Frenzy rules and go down to Final Scoring. 
Sudden death is very ... sudden. A standard game 
uses a few more rules at the end to balance out 
the scoring opportunities. This is called final 
frenzy.
Final frenzy is triggered when the last skull is 
removed from the killshot track. Everyone gets 
one more turn, including the player who made 
the killshot.
Note: If you trigger final frenzy with multiple 
killshots, put all your killshot and overkill tokens 
on the killshot track. Don't worry about who gets 
the final skull token.
FINAL FRENZY SETUP
All players with no damage (including those who 
were just scored) flip their boards over. They keep 
marks and ammo, but skulls are set aside. Their 
boards offer no point for first blood. The reward 
for damage is 2, 1, 1, 1.
All players flip over their action tiles. 
On your last turn you will have ...
After the final turn, score all boards that still have damage tokens. Score them as you 
usually would, except, of course, they don't have killshots. If you are playing with the final 
frenzy rules, don't forget that flipped boards offer no point for first blood.
Then score the killshot track. The player with the most tokens gets 8 points. The player with 
second most gets 6, and so on. Break ties in the usual way – the player who got the earlier 
killshot wins the tie.
Everyone reveals their points. Whoever has the most wins. 
TIEBREAKERS
If players are tied, break the tie in favor of the player who 
got the higher score on the killshot track. If players who 
did not get a killshot are tied, they should be mocked for 
not getting a killshot. Also, they remain tied.
END OF YOUR TURN
SUDDEN DEATH
FINAL FRENZY
This card's reload cost is 2 red and 1 yellow cube.
FRENETIC ACTIONS!
If you take your final turn before the player who started the game, 
you have 2 actions. Available actions are: 
If you are the starting player, or if your final turn comes after 
the starting player's final turn, you have only 1 action:
Move up to 1 square, reload if you want, then shoot.
Either move up to 2 squares, 
reload if you want, and then shoot.
Or move move up to 3 squares and grab something.
Move up to 4 squares.
Move up to 2 squares and grab something there.
Note: You may be wondering what benefit this second option gives 
you, but it can be useful in the Turret Mode.
EASY TARGETS
Boards that are killed in final frenzy are flipped over to the 2-1-1-1 side. 
Killshot and overkill tokens go to the killshot track as usual.

OVERVIEW
Players try to control turrets, which can shoot other players.
Cover the killshot track with the turret board and place 8 skulls in the skull box.
AMMO
Do not deal ammo tiles to the game board. Instead, a choice of 5 ammo tiles will be 
offered on the turret board. Deal 1 ammo tile face up to each ammo space. At the end of 
each player's turn, replace any tiles taken with new ones from the stack.
TURRET SQUARES
Squares that offer ammo now have turrets as well.
GRAB AMMO
Grabbing ammo works as usual, except you choose a tile from the turret board. You still 
are not allowed to grab ammo twice from the same square in one turn.
COMMANDEERING A TURRET
When you grab ammo on a turret square, you can choose to not take one of the ammo 
cubes or powerup cards and commandeer the turret instead. (This applies even to a cube 
or card that you would not be able to take because you already have 3.) 
When you commandeer a turret, place your damage token on the turret. If someone 
else's token is already there, put it on your board as a mark (unless you already have 3 
in that color).
ENTERING A TURRET SQUARE
When you enter a square with someone else's turret, that player gives you 1 damage. 
This applies even when someone else moves you. If an action includes multiple moves, 
each one can trigger a turret.
Turret damage does not cause marks to turn into damage. It cannot be augmented by 
a Targeting Scope powerup. You can't use a Tagback Grenade against it.
Leaving a turret square or starting a turn on one has no effect. When you use a Teleporter 
you trigger only the turret you land on (if that square has a turret). 
Weirdness
Yes, you can be killed on your own turn. If your first action kills you, you still take your 
second action and reload before scoring your board. Hey, it's Adrenaline!
If two or more opponents' boards receive killshots during your turn, you get the 1-point 
bonus for double kill, regardless of who gets credit for the killshot. But if you get yourself 
killed, you can't count that toward a double kill. (Nice try, though.)
SKULLS
Score player boards as usual, except that killshots and overkill are not tracked. 
Final frenzy triggers when the last skull is taken, as usual.
Players get points for controlling turrets at the end of the game. The player with the 
most turrets gets 8 points, the second player gets 6, then 4, 2, and 1. Break ties according 
to play order in favor of the player whose final turn came earlier.
TURRET MODE
In this mode the arena shoots back! 
It's only for experts. Like me.
skull box
OVERVIEW
In Domination Mode, players try to control the three spawnpoints. Of course, they still 
earn points for damaging each other.
Once you have chosen the game board, cover the killshot track with this domination 
board, and place 8 skulls in the skull box.
GAME PLAY
Each player's first turn follows the normal rules. Beginning with your second turn and 
continuing for the rest of the game, you have 2 ways to tag a spawnpoint:
Damage the spawnpoint.
End your turn as the only player on the spawnpoint.
Each spawnpoint has its own track on the domination board. When you tag a spawnpoint, 
put one of your damage tokens on the leftmost empty space of its track. 
DAMAGING A SPAWNPOINT
You can target spawnpoints as though they were players. If the weapon's effect deals 
damage, tag the spawnpoint. The spawnpoint gets only 1 token, even if the weapon 
does more damage. You can damage a spawnpoint only once per turn.
The Tractor Beam and the Vortex Cannon can tag a spawnpoint, but only if you can see 
it. Weapons that damage everyone on a square or in a room also tag spawnpoints. The 
T.H.O.R. can target a spawnpoint as the first, second, or third target, but it can't chain from 
the spawnpoint to another target. (The spawnpoint grounds the T.H.O.R.'s lightning bolt.)
ENDING ON A SPAWNPOINT
If you end your turn as the only player on a spawnpoint, you tag it, even if you have 
already tagged it once this turn by damaging it.
SPAWNPOINT STRIKES BACK
If you end your turn on a spawnpoint, it deals 1 damage to you, even if you are not the 
only player there. Give yourself this damage in your color. When your board is scored, 
this damage will count as though it were damage from another player. Those points will 
not go to any player – they will stay in the bank. If a spawnpoint gives you a killshot at 
the end of your turn, your board is scored, but you cannot count it toward a double kill.
KILLSHOTS AND OVERKILL
Score player boards as usual, except that killshots and overkill do not go into the 
skull box. Killshots are not tracked. If you deal overkill, however, put that token on the 
spawnpoint track of your choice. It will count in final scoring.
FINAL FRENZY
 Final frenzy triggers when the last skull is taken from the skull box or when 
two spawnpoint tracks each have at least 8 damage tokens. (The 8th space is 
marked with a fist, but a track with 8 can still get more.)
Spawnpoint tracks are scored only at the end of the game. Score each separately. 
The player with the most tokens gets 8 points, second most gets 6 points, then 4, 2, and 
1. If there is a tie, all tied players get the reward. For example, if two players are tied for 
first, they will both get 8, but the next player is third and will get 4.
DOMINATION MODE
Okay, so the game I just taught you is the "Deathmatch" 
version of Adrenaline. But there are other ways to play. 
Of course, they all involve shooting people.
skull box
alternate final 
frenzy trigger
tracks
ammo spaces

3-PLAYER GAMES
In a game with fewer targets, some weapons become 
weaker. You can add targets to a 3-player game in 
Domination Mode, as described on the preceding page. 
Or you can add a bot.
Note: You can add a bot to a 4-player game, too.
Choose a figure to represent the bot. You will need its 
player board and damage tokens. It will not use ammo 
cubes or an action tile. Give the bot card to the second 
player.
SPAWNPOINT
After looking at powerups, but before spawning, the 
starting player chooses any of the three spawnpoints 
and places the bot's figure there. 
GAME PLAY
The bot does not get a turn. It acts only on players' 
turns, beginning on the turn of the second player. It is 
shot and scored as though it were a player.
Along with your usual 2 actions, you must also take a 
bot action. The 3 actions can be taken in any order.
BOT ACTION
Move the bot one square, if you want.
Then, if the bot has any legal targets, you must 
choose 1 to be shot. 
Legal targets are any figures the bot can see, but not 
you and not the bot. (In Domination Mode, the bot can 
also target spawnpoints it can see.)
The shot does 1 damage. Give the damage in the bot's 
color. If the bot has both adrenaline actions unlocked, 
the shot also gives 1 mark.
BOT CARD
The bot card reminds you that 
you have a bot action. Keep it in 
your hand until you use your bot 
action, then pass it on to the next 
player. It does not count as 
a weapon or powerup.
POWERUPS
In general, powerups that work on you cannot be used 
by the bot, but powerups that work on other players 
can be used on the bot.
Targeting Scope cannot add 1 damage to the bot action.
Teleporter cannot be used to move the bot.
Newton can be used to move the bot – even before 
your bot action.
Tagback Grenade gives a mark to the bot if played in 
response to damage from the bot action.
SCORING
The bot's damage counts like any player's damage. 
You can even keep track of the bot's points, if you 
want, although it might be embarrassing if it beats 
you. The bot's board is scored like any player's board.
If multiple boards have killshots at the end of your 
turn, you get the 1-point bonus for double kill, 
regardless of who gets credit for the killshots,
OTHER MODES
The bot can be used with both modes. If you can add 
a bot to Domination Mode, you will have a target-rich 
environment.
Adding a bot to Turret Mode is probably the most 
complicated way to play Adrenaline. It will go more 
smoothly if everyone knows Turret Mode really well.
ADDING A BOT
COMPONENTS
BOT
GRENADE LAUNCHER
TARGETING SCOPE
TAGBACK GRENADE
NEWTON
3 ammo cubes in each ammo color
»	 You are not allowed more than 
3 of each color. If the player sitting 
next to you is missing cubes, 
count your own cubes and return 
any you took.
1 game board consisting of 2 double-sided pieces
»	 Gives 4 possible setups.
1 double-sided board for 2 different modes
»	 Not used in standard Deathmatch setup.
1 bot card
»	 Not used in 
standard setup.
21 weapon cards
»	 The weapons deck may run out during play. 
(But don't forget that if you grab a fourth 
weapon, you have to drop one.)
24 powerup cards
»	 Powerups do not run out during play. When 
the last card is drawn, shuffle all discarded 
powerups to make a new deck.
LOCK RIFLE
SLEDGEHAMMER
36 ammo tiles
»	 Ammo tiles do not run out. When 
the last tile is turned up, shuffle all 
discarded tiles to make a new stack.
A large number of point tokens
»	 If you run out, check under the 
table. You should have more 
than enough.
1 starting 
player 
marker
PLAYER COMPONENTS
The game has components for 5 players. 
Each player gets:
1 player board
1 action tile
1 figure
»	 Your figure should not run out during play. 
If it somehow escapes, capture it and put 
it back in the arena.
20 damage tokens
»	 If you run out of these, you are 
doing awesome damage! Use 
coins or some other suitable 
substitute until you get some 
of your tokens returned to you.