OBJECT OF THE GAME
To become the richest builder on the boardwalk by owning properties with the 
highest total value.
EQUIPMENT
Gameboard
80 hotel units (20 of each color)
3 dice (2 standard dice and 1 color die)
4 tokens; a baby buggy, a roller skate, a sailboat, and a moped
SET UP
1. Place the gameboard in the center of the playing area.
2. Sort the property cards by color and place each one opposite the matching color 
and property value on the gameboard.
Your property cards should look like this:
AGES 8 and Up
For 2 to 4 players 
A deck of 28 Fortune cards
20 property cards
The Classic Game of High Rises and Fast Falls
3. Shuffle the deck of Fortune cards and place them face down in the space on the 
gameboard labeled, FORTUNE CARD DRAW PILE.
4. Each player chooses a token and places it on the START space.
5. Depending upon the number of players, each player takes the hotel units that match 
the color of his or her token.
	
•  4-player game: each player takes 14 hotel units
	
•  3-player game: each player takes 16 hotel units
	
•  2-player game: each player takes 20 hotel units
6. Each player draws 2 Fortune cards from the top of the deck, looks at them, and 
places the cards face down in front of him or her for later use.  
7. In turn, each player rolls the two standard dice. The player who rolls the highest 
number goes first.  Play then passes, in turn, to the left.
HOW TO PLAY
On your turn, try to become the owner of as many properties as the roll of the dice 
will allow by building the greatest number of hotel units on them.  Use Fortune cards 
whenever possible to help you accomplish this goal.
Order-of-turn reference guide
The following steps outline, in order, what you may and/or must do on your turn.  
Refer to this section during game play for quick reference.  For further details on each 
step, please read the GAME PLAY DESCRIPTION section.
1. Roll all 3 dice.
2. Build a unit(s) if possible. If you roll an “F” on the color die, disregard the numbered 
dice and draw a Fortune card.
3. Take a property card(s) if appropriate.
4. Move your token and any opponent’s token if necessary.
5. If you wish, play a Fortune card and follow its directions.
6. End your turn by passing the dice to the left.
GAME PLAY DESCRIPTION
On your turn, do the following:
1. Roll all 3 dice together
The Numbered Dice
The numbered dice indicate how many millions of dollars you have available to spend 
on building hotel units along the boardwalk.
Example:
If you roll a 3 and a 7, you have a total of $10 million to spend on building hotel units.
The Color Die
The color die features four colors; each one matching a color zone on the gameboard.  
The color you roll is the color of the zone in which you must build.
NOTE: If a player rolls a number and color zone and there is no property card that 
corresponds to that roll (i.e. 3 and green), he has no play to make. However, if the 
player has a Fortune card, he can play one on his turn.
The “W”
The “W” on the color die stands for “WILD.” When rolled, you may choose any one 
color zone on which to build.
The “F”
The “F” on the color die stands for “FORTUNE CARD.” Whenever you roll an “F,” 
DISREGARD YOUR ROLL OF THE NUMBERED DICE.  Instead you must take one 
Fortune card from the top of the draw pile. 
You may play any Fortune card on this turn by following its directions, but you 
must end your turn directly after playing it.
If you do not play a Fortune card, end your turn.
2. Build a unit or units
Each of the properties along the boardwalk is valued at a specific million-dollar 
amount.  Building is the act of placing one or more of your hotel units onto a property, 
or onto other hotel units already on a property. Build a unit(s) on one or more 
properties within the color zone rolled whose total worth is equal to, or less than, the 
sum of the dice.  
Example: If you roll a 6 - 4 - blue, then you may build a unit (or units) on 10 million 
dollars or less worth of property within the blue color zone.
You can build:
•  one unit on $6M and one on $4M, or
•  one unit on $5M, one unit on $3M, and one unit on $2M, or
•  two units on $5M (Refer to CONDITIONS TO BUILDING section)
•  any combination less than or equal to $10M
Conditions To Building
a. You can only build one unit on any vacant property at one time.
b. You may build more than one unit on an occupied property.
c. You may build units atop a hotel which contains units previously built by an opponent.
d. You may build units on properties worth less than the sum of the dice.
e. You must build at least one unit on a turn, unless you roll an “F” on the color die.
3. Take a property card(s)
Each of the properties along the boardwalk has a corresponding property card.  
When you become the owner of a piece of property, IMMEDIATELY take the matching 
property card from either the side of the gameboard or from the player who holds it.
YOU MUST TAKE A PROPERTY CARD(S) AS SOON AS YOU BECOME THE OWNER IN 
ORDER TO:
- Keep track of property ownership, and
- Verify your token’s position on the gameboard. The sum of your property cards’ 
values must equal the value of the space on which your token rests.
You can become a property owner in the following ways:
a. By building a unit on a vacant lot.
b. By building a greater number of units on top of those already built by the current 
owner.
Example: Your opponent has built one unit on the property worth $5 million in the red 
color zone. On your turn, you roll 6 - 4 - red. You decide to build two units on top of 
your opponent’s one unit. Now, you become the owner of this property and take the 
property card from your opponent because you have built more units on this property 
than any other player.
Tie for property ownership
If two or more players have the same number of units on a property, the player whose 
unit is closest to the bottom of the hotel is the owner.
Example:
White
Black
White
Black
Gray
Here, two players have an equal number 
of units.  However, because the black 
unit is closest to the bottom of the hotel, 
black becomes the owner.
White
Gray
Purple
Black
Here, each player has the same number 
of units on a property.  However, 
because the black unit is closest to the 
bottom of the hotel (in this case it is the 
bottom) black becomes the owner.
4. Move your token
During the game, the position of your token on the boardwalk must reflect the total 
worth of all the properties you own (Remember: add together the values on your 
property cards). Therefore, each time you become the owner of a piece of property, 
your token is moved ahead the number of spaces equal to the value of that property.  
Likewise, if you lose a piece of property to an opponent, your token is moved back the 
number of spaces equal to the value of that property.
Example: The total value of all your properties equals $10 million and your token rests 
on the $10M space on the boardwalk. Your opponent’s total value of properties equals 
$15 million and his/her token rests on the $15M space on the boardwalk. On your next 
turn, you build 2 units on top of your opponent’s 1 unit, taking over a piece of property 
worth $5 million. Take the $5 million property card from your opponent, move your 
token ahead 5 spaces (to the $15M space), and move your opponent’s token back 5 
spaces (to the $10M space).
ON YOUR TURN, YOU MUST MOVE YOUR TOKEN, AND ANY OTHER PLAYER’S TOKEN 
WHEN NECESSARY.
Landing on an “F” space
If you land on an “F” space ON YOUR TURN AS A RESULT OF MOVING FORWARD, you 
get the added bonus of taking the top Fortune card from the draw pile.
5. Play a Fortune card
Fortune cards can help you build more hotel units, acquire more property during the 
game - even move an opponent who’s in the lead backwards. Therefore, Fortune cards 
are good to gain whenever possible and can become an important part of game strategy.
At the end of your turn you may play one Fortune card, EXCEPT FOR THOSE FORTUNE 
CARDS WHICH INSTRUCT YOU TO PLAY THEM IMMEDIATELY AFTER YOUR ROLL OF THE 
DICE.
To play a Fortune card, simply follow the directions on the card.  BE SURE TO ADJUST 
PROPERTY CARDS AND TOKENS IF NECESSARY.
During the game, keep your Fortune cards face down in front of you so that the other 
players cannot see them.
Once you have played a Fortune card, place it face up in the FORTUNE CARD DISCARD PILE. 
Whenever the FORTUNE CARD DRAW PILE is depleted, shuffle the cards in the discard 
pile and place them face down in the draw pile space.
NOTE: If a Fortune card says,”…if your token is in last place…”, and you’re tied for last 
place, you may complete the action described on the Fortune card.
6. End your turn
End your turn by passing the dice to the left. 
END OF GAME
The game ends when one player has no hotels with which to build at the start of his or 
her turn, or when one player has reached the last space on the boardwalk.
WINNING
The player who controls the most millions of dollars worth of property (as represented 
by his or her token on the boardwalk) is the winner.  In the case of a tie, the winner is 
the player who owns the most properties.
We hope that you enjoy playing ADVANCE TO BOARDWALK.  We are always happy to 
hear from our consumers.  If you have any questions, please contact us:
Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan Street Suite C-104
Danvers, MA 01923
Phone:  1-800-664-7788 ext. 114
Fax:      978-739-4847
Email:   wmoves@winning-moves.com
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and compliance please visit 
http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
Item # 1209
HASBRO GAMING and its logo and the MONOPOLY trademark and its logo are trademarks of Hasbro and are 
used with permission. © 1935, 2016 Hasbro, Pawtucket, RI 02862. All Rights Reserved. 
Manufactured by Winning Moves. WINNING MOVES, WINNING MOVES GAMES, and CLASSIC, RETRO, 
COOL, & FUN, and Logos thereof, are registered trademarks of Winning Moves Inc. © 2016 Winning Moves 
Inc., 75 Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923. Colors and parts may vary.  Made in CHINA.
Under License From:
Made & Marketed by:
