... """.,.~, 
...." 
4 
ADVANCED CIVILIZATION 
Rules 
I. OVERVIEW 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1 ADVANCED ClV1LlZA.TION is a game of skill for two to eight 
players which covers the development of ancient civilizations from the 
invention of agriculture to the emergence of Rome as the dominant 
Mediterranean power - a span of almost 8,000 years. Each player leads 
a nation of peoples over a mapboard of the Mediterranean and Ncar East 
as they attempt to carve a niche for themselves and their culture. 
1.2 Although battles and territorial strategy are important, ADVANCED 
CIVlLlZA170N is not a war game because it is not won by battle or 
conquest. Instead, the object of play is to gain a level of overaJl advance-
ment involving cultural, economic, political and religious factors. 
Conflicts which do arise result from rivalries and shortages of land rather 
than attempts to eliminate other players. Nomads, farmers, warriors, 
merchants, artisans, priests and citizens all have an essential part to play 
in the development of each nation's civilization. The player who most 
effectively balances these various outlooks will achieve the best balance 
and win the game. 
1.3 A game of ADVANCED ClVlLlZA 110N can take up to ten or twelve 
hours to complete. When this much time is not available, players should 
play to a fixed time limit (see 34.1B, below). 
2. DESCRIPTION OF PLAY 
2.1 The Object of ADVANCED CNILlZA110N is to acquire the greatest 
number of victory points (35). The winner will not necessarily be the 
first player to reach the end of the Archaeological Succession Track 
(A.S.T.) or the player with the greatest number of civilization card 
points, although these are important factors in determining the winner. 
Civilization cards are acquired by a step-by-step process that mirrors the 
actual development of civilizations. 
2.2 Occupancy of areas on the board are indicated by tokens, which 
represent groups of peoples, and cities. At the start of the game, each 
nation begins with a single token in one of its start areas. Each turn, 
each player increases his population by adding onc token to each area 
containing a single token and two tokens to each area containing two or 
more tokens. 
2.3 Each player may then move his tokens to new areas by land or by 
boarding ships and moving by sea into other land areas. 
Players 
generally move their tokens into areas of the board which are fertile and 
defensible. This movement represents the travels of nomadic tribes and 
their search for a suitable homeland. 
2.4 After movement, conflict is resolved in land areas which contain 
surplus population. As the popUlation of the board reaches its limit, 
conflict becomes more common as border wars help to establish the 
boundaries of each nation. The scope of expansion is often limited by the 
loss of tokens in contested areas. 
2.S After conflict is resolved, cities may be constructed in areas which 
contain enough tokens. City construction is a more productive way of 
absorbing population pressures than is territorial expansion, for while 
cities require an agricultural hinterland, they are better able to resist 
attack and generate revenue through taxes which may be used to establish 
a central fund for the benefit of the whole state. The payment of taxes 
is represented by the transfer of tokens from stock into treasury. Players 
must strive to maintain a balance between rural and urban populations. 
2.6 Each turn, players collect one trade card for each city they have on 
the board. Most trade cards are commodities, but some are calamities 
which may affect one or more players. Trade cards, includmg -=--
calamities, are then exchanged between players during the 
session, allowing players to build up sets of commodity cards. 0D;::e 
calamities are resolved J these commodity card sets and tokens in tra:slIIt""'!" 
may be exchanged for civilization cards. 
2.7 Cities are thus essential to provide the wealth needed to !Uh~ 
.t 
civilization, but a nation which fails to augment this wealth by trade 
be surpassed by others with a more energetic outlook. However. L~ 
is not without its hazards in the form of calamities which can haTe .I. 
disastrous effect on people who have failed to evolve a balanced cu.Jt:::roe 
Such calamities may also indirectly provide the impetus from v.1lica 
well-organized society can (ise in new ways and achieve still furtha 
greatness. Even so, the best calamities are those which happen to other 
nations. 
2.8 Wealth from trade can be utilized to advance various aspects of .. 
nation's civilization, which in turn aids its further progress. Civilizatioa. 
cards confer special abilities and immunitics upon their holders, and also 
provide players with the bulk of the points they need to progress alOft, 
the Archaeological Succession Track and win. The speed and efficieDC! 
with which a nation is able to devclop these various aspects of civilizario:::l. 
will determine its chances for success and victory in the game. Strategic 
planning is essential, as ccrtain civilization cards are expensive and 10 
purchase them a player will normally accumulate credits from a series of 
less expensive cards. For example, the cost of Democracy (200) can be 
reduced by 45 points with the possession ofOrama and Poetry, Architoct-
ure, and Literacy. 
II. GAME COMPONENTS 
3. COMPONENTS 
3.1 The game consists of the following components: 
A. A mapboard made up of four panels. The Italian start areas are OD 
the western-most panel, and the Babylonian start areas are on the eastern-
most panel. The Western Expansion Map panel may also be used, bet 
is not essential to play of the game. 
n. Nine sets of playing pieces. 
C. Set of 24 civilization cards (eight of each type). 
D. Deck of 114 commodity cards (plus spare blank cards). Sevetk")' 
commodity cards are included in ADVANCED CNILlZAT10N. 
E. Deck of 12 calamity cards. Eight calamity cards are included • 
ADVANCED ClVlLlZATTON. 
F. Archaeological Succession Card (consisting of the Archaeologica. 
Succession Track, the Census Track and the Trade Card Stacks). 
G. Eight Player Mats. 
H. Place Cards. 
I. Rulebook and Gamer's Guide. 
J. Summary of Calamity Effects. 
K. Civilization Card Credit Table, printed on the back of the rulebook. 
3.2 ADVANCED CIVILIZATION is played using the original maJT 
board, player mats, place cards, and some of the trade cards, from the 
original CIVILIZATION game, as well as the new civilization, com-
modity and calamity cards, and rules contained in this ADVANCED 
CIVILIZATION expansion kit Players may wish to photocopy the new 
sequence of play (page 7) to add to their player mats. 
3.3 ADVANCED CJVlL1ZA'flON docs not use dice. 
4. THE MAPBOARD 
4.1 The maphoard consists of four panels which form a stylized map of 
the ancient civilized world from Italy to the Persian Gulf. A fifth panel, 
the Western Extension Maphoard, may also be used, although it is not 
essential to play of ADVANCED CIVILIZATION. The map has been 
divided into areas for purposes of population and movement. These areas 
contain significant features central to the play of the game. 
4.2 Areas: 
4.21 Land areas consist of any area bounded by white lines which 
contains various green or brown-colored territory. Several islands within 
one area are considered to constitute one island for rule purposes. 
4.22 Water areas consist of any area containing blue. Areas which 
contain both green or brown territory and bl ue are considered to be both 
land and water areas. 
4.23 Open sea areas are water areas which contain only blue territory. 
4.24 Coastal areas are areas which contain both land and ocean (non-
lake) water. 
4.3 Boundaries: 
4.31 Land boundaries are indicated by a white line dividing two land 
areas. 
4.32 Water boundaries are indicated by a white line dividing two water 
areas, including lakes. 
4.33 A boundary which crosses both land and water is considered to be 
both a land and water boundary. Where rules refer only to land or water 
boundaries, the terms all-land and all-water boundaries are used. 
4.4 Geographical features: 
4.41 
Volcanoes are represented by white triangles. 
One of the 
volcanoes, in the Aegean, occupies one area. The other two volcanoes, 
in Sicily and Italy, straddle two areas. 
4.42 Flood plains are represented by dark green coloring. Any area that 
contains such dark green coloring is considered to be on a flood plain. 
4.43 City Sites are represented by small squares. Most city sites are 
black. White city sites are on flood plains and are vulnerable to floods. 
4.5 Population limits of land areas are indicated by a number enclosed 
in a colored circle. These numbers indicate the maximum number of 
tokens that the area can accommodate. To ease identification, each value 
has its own color. 
4.6 Start areas for each nation are indicated by a colored border. At 
the start of the game, players may only place their initial token in a start 
area with a border of the same color as their token. Crete's start areas 
are indicated by a yellow-green border around the island of Crete. 
4.61 If the Western Extension Mapboard is used, the start areas on the 
western edge of the original mapboard are disregarded. The start areas 
for Africa and Italy are altered accordingly. 
4.7 The map divider, represented by a dotted line in the middle panel 
of the mapboard, is used to divide the mapboard into smaller playing 
areas for games with less than six players. 
4.8 All other map features are included for aesthetic purposes o~ly and 
have no impact on play. 
B 
W _ 
[a5J Succession 
~ ~ 
~ 
jASSYRIAj 
Token 
City 
Ship 
7 
Census 
5. PLAYING PIECES 
5.1 
There are nine sets of playing pieces, each of which bears a 
distinctive national color. Each set contains 55 large square tokens, nine 
5 
round cities, four rectangular ships, one small square census marker 
bearing a number and one small square succession marker. 
5.2 Tokens are square, and are used to represent rural populations. 
When the term tokcn is used, this does not include ships or cities. 
5.3 Cities are round, and are used to represent urban populations. 
5.4 Ships are rectangular, and are used only to move tokens across 
water areas. 
5.5 Units is a term used to refer to tokens and cities, but not ships. 
5.6 Unit points is a term used to refer to the value of tokens and cities, 
usually in the context of resolving calamities. Each city has a value of 
five unit points and each token has a value of one unit point. 
ARCHITECTURE 
Allows treasury 
to pay baH of the cost 
of city construction. 
A 
120 
ARCHITECTURE ... 
Arts: 120 
Cffldits: 5to all Am;, 10 to 
Democracy and Enlightenment, 
15toLaw. 
CfflditlCost Ratio: 60/120 •. 5 
Attributes: Up to hall 01 the 
cost 01 building one city per 
turn in an unopposed area 
may be paid by tokens lrom 
the treasury. 
Calamity Effects: None. 
6. CIVILIZATION CARDS 
6.1 
Civilization cards represent 24 important aspects of civilization. 
There are five groups of civilization cards, each identified by its own 
color and symbolic shape. Four cards belong to two groups. The groups 
are: Arts (blue - triangle), Crafts (orange - square), Sciences (green-
circle), Civics (red - hexagon), and Religion (yellow - star). 
6,2 Mere the anributes of civilization cards create exceptions ro a 
general ruIe, these exceptions are set OuI in italics. The anributes oflhe 
various civilization cards are summarized on their reverse side. 
7. TRADE CARDS 
VOLCANIC 
ERUPTION OR 
EARTHQUAKE 
7.1 There are two types of trade cards - commodity cards and calamity 
cards. The term trade card is used in the rules to refer to both commod-
ity and calamity cards. Rules which refer specifically to commodity or 
calamity cards apply only to that typc of card. 
rr:i9Ji36ill,~,i'~44il 
\&~'9 (, 
Iv~~l 
8. COMMODITY CARDS 
8.1 There are 114 commodity cards. The following table sets out the 
value and number of each commodity: 
6 
Value 
Commoditl 
Nwnber 
1 
Ochre 
7 
1 
Hides 
7 
2 
n-
8 
2 
Papyrus· 
7 
3 
Salt 
9 
3 
Timber· 
8 
4 
Grain 
8 
4 
Oil· 
7 
S 
Cloth 
7 
S 
Wine'" 
6 
6 
Bronze 
6 
6 
Silver'" 
S 
7 
Spices· 
6 
7 
Resin· 
S 
8 
Gems· 
S 
8 
Dye-
4 
9 
Gold'" 
S 
9 
Ivory'" 
4 
• Use commodity caros provided with ADVANCED CIVIUZA.110N. 
Non-Tradable 
2 
VOLCANIC 
ERUPTION OR 
EARTHQUAKE 
SUPERSmlON 
9. CALAMITY CARDS 
9.1 There are 12 calamity cards. The following table sets out the trade 
card stack in which each calamity is placed and its trade status: 
Trade Stack 
Calamity 
Trade Status 
2 
Volcano/Earthquake· 
Non-tradable 
2 
Treachery'" 
Tradable 
3 
Famine-
Non-tradable 
3 
Superstition· 
Tradable 
4 
Civil War'* 
Non-tradable 
4 
Slave Revolt'" 
Tradable 
S 
Flood'" 
Non-tradable 
S 
Barbarian Hordes· 
Tradable 
6 
~idemic 
Tradable 
7 
Civil Disorder 
Tradable 
8 
Iconoclasm and Heresy 
Tradable 
9 
Piracy 
Tradable 
.. Usc calamity cards supplied with ADVANCED CIVIUZA110N. 
10. ARCHAEOLOGICAL SUCCESSION CARD 
10.1 The Archaeological Succession Card is divided into three sections: 
the Archaeological Succession Table (A.S. T .), the Trade Card Stacks and 
the Census Track. 
10.2 
The Archaeological Succession Table (A.S.T.) contains a 
horizontal track for each nation. Each player's succession marker moves 
along his nation's track from left to right. There are a total of sixteen 
spaces on each track, including the start arrow and the finish square. 
10.21 The A.S.T. is divided into five regions (called epochs) by shading: 
the Stone Age, Early Bronze Age, Late Bronze Age, Early Iron Age, and 
Late Iron Age. In the last epoch, each space contains a point value. 
Such spaces may not be entered unless the player in question has acquired 
the indicated number of points (33.25). Not all nations enter the same 
epochs at the same time. 
10.3 Trade Card Stacks are used to hold the various trade cards during 
play. There are nine stacks, one for each level of trade card. 
10.4 The Census Track is used to hold each nation's census marker. 
After population expansion has occurred, players determine how many of 
their tokens are on the board and their census markers are moved to the 
appropriate number on the Census Track. 
11. PLAYER MATS 
11.1 Player mats are used by players to hold all tokens, cities and shi.;:'s 
not currently in play on the board. These are referred to as stock and arc 
kept in the stock area of the Player Mat. When tokens. cities and ships 
are removed from the board they are placed in stock and may be returned 
to play at a later time. No playing piece is ever permanently remo"'cd 
from the game. 
11.2 When tokens are placed in the treasury area of the Player Mat thc!' 
become a currency which may be used to purchase civilization cards. t 
is important not to mix tokens in stock with tokens in treasury. as t.ber 
serve separate functions. To maintain this distinction, tokens placed .. 
treasury should be inverted. The sequence of play followed each tun!. 
does not correspond exactly to tha.t printed on the Player Mats - see IS 
12. PLACE CARDS 
12.1 The place cards are used at the start of the game to 
determine the order in which players select their nationS-
They have no other purpose and are put aside once the game. 
hegins. 
13. CALAMITY EFFECTS SUMMARY 
13.1 This sheet sets out the effects of each calamity. The Calami!) 
Effects Summary is printed separately for ease of reference. 
14. CIVILIZATION CARD CREDIT AND 
GAME RECORD SHEET 
14.1 The Civilization Card Credit Table saves a great deal of time by 
allowing players to quickly calculate the credits they have accumulated 
towards the purchase of additional civilization cards. 
14.2 The Game Record Chart provides a convenient way for players to 
record their civilization card purchases and keep a running total of their 
civilization card points. 
Players must keep a running total of their 
civilization card values and reveal this total when asked by anotbct 
player. Players may wish to record the number of the turn in which tbe) 
acquired their civilization cards for future reference. 
14.3 These player aids are printed on the back of the rulebook. Players 
should photocopy the Civilization Card Credit Table and Game Record 
Chart and keep an adequate supply on hand. 
III. GETTING STARTED 
15. SETTING UP THE GAME 
IS.1 Layout the mapboard and the Archaeological Succession Card. A:! 
players place a Player Mat in front of them. 
15.2 Sort out the civilization cards by type and put them to one side is 
an easily accessible location. Sort the commodity cards by number. 
shuffle each stack, then count out a number of commodity cards from 
each of the second to ninth stacks equivalent to the number of players.. 
These are put to one side. Each of the eight tradable calamity cards is 
then shuffled in with the remaining commodity cards of the same 
numeric value (Le., Treachery is shuffled in with Iron and Papyrus. 
Superstition with Salt and Timber, and so on), and the commodity 
cards which were put to one side are now placed on top of their trade 
card stacks. This ensures that no player will draw a tradable calamity 
until play is well underway. The four non-tradable calamity cards are 
placed at the bottom of the stack of trade cards corresponding to their 
numeric value. The first stack does not get a calamity. 
15.3 The numbered place cards are shuffled and one is dealt to each 
player. One place card is used for each player to determine the order in 
which nations are selected by the players. 
In sequence, each player 
selects one of the nine nations to play, takes the set of playing pieces for 
that nation and places one token in anyone of his nation's start areas 
(4.6). There is a choice of starting areas for every nation except Thrace, 
which has only one start area. 
15.31 Even with eight players, one nation will not be in play. Units 
belonging to a nation which is not in play are used for the Barbarian 
Hordes and Piracy calamities. Otherwise these extra units are not used 
and are put aside. 
15.4 Players place their succession markers on their nation's start arrow 
on the A.S.T. and their census markers on the Census Track beside the 
AS.T. Play may now begin. 
15.5 Late arrivals: 
15.51 Players who wish to join a game once it is in progress may do so 
by selecting an unused nation and waiting for a Civil War. 
15.52 Once a Civil War occurs, the new player will be the beneficiary, 
as he will have the most units in stock (30.411) . In addition to whatever 
cities and tokens it acquires as a result of the Civil War, the new nation 
also acquires, at no cost, the same civilization cards as are held by the 
Civil War victim, and places his marker on the same AS . T. position as 
the Civil War victim. The Civil War victim retains his civilization cards. 
This assumption of the civilization cards and A.S.T. position by the 
beneficiary of a Civil War only occurs when a new player is entering the 
game. 
15.6 Early departures: 
15.61 If a player must leave a game while it is still in progress, his units 
remain, inert, on the mapboard until eliminated by other players. The 
inert nation does not move, its population does not increase, and its cities 
do not require support. Such a nation may not be selected as a secondary 
victim of calamities. 
15.62 When a player leaves the game, his nation retains, at random, one 
trade card for each city it has on the mapboard. Excess trade cards are 
returned to the appropriate trade card stacks. When a city belonging to 
the inert nation is eliminated, the attacking player draws one of the trade 
cards retained by that nation and pillages the city (24.5) . 
15.63 An inert nation retains its civilization cards. Their attributes are 
taken into account when resolving attacks against the inert nation's units. 
16. THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS 
16.1 ADVANCED CIVILIZAT10N may be played by between two and 
eight players. Depending on the number of players, the playing area, 
number of tokens per player and certain rules are different, as set out 
below. Unless otherwise specified, all other rules remain in effect. 
16.11 When a game is played on only a portion of the mapboard,land 
areas which are only partially on the mapboard may be used if their 
population limit is printed on a panel which is in play. A playable land 
area which normally contains a city site is considered not to have a city 
site if the site is printed on a panel which is not in play. 
16.12 Nations whose start areas are on a panel which is not in play may 
not be selected. If the western-most panel is not in play, the start areas 
for Africa and Italy are changed accordingly. 
16.2 Eight players - All four pancls of the mapboard are used. If the 
Western Extension Mapboard is available, it is used as well. Each player 
uses 47 tokens. 
. 
16.3 Seven players - All four panels of the mapboard are used . If the 
Western Extension Mapboard is available, it is used as well. Each player 
uses 55 tokens. 
16.4 Six players - All four panels of the mapboard are used. If the 
Western Extension Mapboard is available, players may choose not to use 
the eastern-most panel of the mapboard. Each player uses 55 tokens. 
16.5 Five players - Three panels of the mapboard are used. Players 
may play without both the western-most and eastern-most panels, or, if 
the Western Extension Mapboard is available, the two most western 
panels or the two most eastern panels. Each player uses 47 tokens. 
16.6 Four players -. Only the three eastern panels of the mapboard are 
used, and the dotted map dividing line mades the western edge of the 
board. Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. Only 
four nations (Egypt, Babylon, Assyria and Asia) are available for play. 
If the Western Expansion Mapboard is available, the western portion of 
7 
the mapboard can be used, with five nations (Italy. Africa. Illyria, Thra.ce 
and Crete) being available for play. In either case, each player uses 55 
tokens. 
16.7. Three players - Only the three middle panels of the mapboard are 
used, and the dotted map dividing line marks the eastern edge of the 
board. Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. Only 
five nations (Italy, Africa, IIIyria, Thrace and Crete) are available for 
play. Each player uses 47 tokens. 
16.8 Two players - Only the three middle panels of the map board are 
used, and the dotted map dividing line marks the eastern edge of the 
board. Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. City 
sites on islands are disregarded - 12 tokens are required to build a city on 
an island. 
Only four nations (Italy, Africa, Illyria and Thrace) are 
available for play. Each player uses 55 tokens. 
IV. TURN BY TURN PROCEDURE 
17. THE GAME TURN 
17.1 Each ADVANCED CIVILIZATION game turn is divided into a 
number of distinct activities, referred to as phases. During each phase, 
players perform the indicated activity simultaneously or, if necessary, in 
a prescribed order. When all phases have been completed, the turn is 
finished and a new turn begins. 
17.2 To speed play, in many phases all players may carry out the 
required activity simultaneously, as their actions will have no effect on 
other players. However. situations often arise in which the actions of 
other players are of crucial importance in determining a player's actions. 
Players may insist at any time that activities in a particular phase be 
carried out in the proper order. 
17.3 The order of player activity during various phases is determined 
according to various criteria, as detailed in the rules applying to each 
phase. These criteria are summarized in the sequence of play. 
17.4 A.S.T. order is used to resolve all ties between the nations except 
conflict. AS .T. order corresponds to the list of nations on the A.S .T. -
Africa is first, Italy second, and so on down to Egypt. 
18. SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
18.1 During each turn, the following sequence of play is used : 
Activity 
Collect Taxes (possible city 
revolts) (19) 
Population expansion (20) 
Census (21) 
Ship construction and mainten-
ance (22) 
Movement (23 
Conflict (24) 
Cit construction (25) 
Remove 
surplus 
population 
(check for city support) (26) 
Conditions 
Only if cities exist 
(A.S .. order) 
Always (AS.T. order) 
Always 
If desired (census order) 
Always (census order) 
If necessary (simultaneous, 
unless otherwise desired) 
If "I'2roJlfiate (A.S.T. ord~ 
If necessary (A.S.T. order) 
Trade card acquisition (purchase 
If cities exist (fewest cities goes 
Gold/Ivory) (27) 
first) 
At 
least 
three 
trade 
cards 
Trade (28) 
o-;;c .... ~::""""_.rrequired (simultan~us) 
[
Resolve calamities (Monotheism 
If appropriate (in 
ascending 
~ conversion, check for city sup-
order) 
W 
port) (29) 
Z 
Acquisition of civilization cards 
(return surplus trade cards) (31) 
Movement of succession markers 
on A.S.T. (33) 
If appropriate (A.S .T. order) 
Always 
8 
18.2 There are 13 phases in a turn. During the early stages of the game, 
each turn will consist of only a few of the 13 phases. Phases in which 
no activity takes place are simply disregarded. 
18.3 The principal activity of a phase may sometimes require secondary 
actions to be taken. These secondary actions are shown in parentheses 
in the activity section of the sequence of play. 
v. THE PHASES 
- _.-
OM 
~
~
.
.
 
_ 
--
: §:;-_ §-.:::w 
.-
-_.-
fIJ 
:~;-~~~~.~ 
: ::"::'~~;~o_~j]
j ~ 
'--__ 
-'-"'-"'--'--'------'-=='--_ --=--_ ----' Player Mat 
19. TAXATION 
19.1 Every player must transfer two tokens from stock to treasury for 
every city he has on the board. This is the only way tokens are moved 
into treasury. other than pillage (24.52) . 
19.2 
Players who hold COinage may vary their taxation rate by 
increasing it 10 three tokens per city or decreasing it to one token per 
ciry. The same tax must be levied on each city in a given round. A 
taxation rale may be set which causes Ihe revolt of some cities. 
19.3 Revolts 
19.31 Revolts occur when a player does not have sufficienttokens in his 
stock to pay the required taxes. Once the shortfall is determined, the 
excess cities revolt. Revolts are resolved only after all other players have 
paid their taxes. 
19.32 The player with the most units in stock (cities count for five each, 
tokens count for one each) is the beneficiary of the revolt and chooses 
which cities revolt and replaces them with his own cities. He may take 
over only that number of cities for which the original owners Me unable 
to pay their taxes. If the beneficiary does not have enough cities in stock 
to take over all cities in revolt, the player with the next largest number 
of units in stock takes over the remainder and so on, until all cities in 
revolt have been replaced. The unpaid taxes are not paid by the new 
owners. 
19.33 In the rare case where no player can take over remaining revolting 
cities, they are eliminated instead. 
19.34 Cities belonging to players who hold Democracy never revolt. 
20. POPULATION EXPANSION 
20.1 Each player adds one token to every area which contains one of his 
tokens and two tokens to every area which already contains two or more 
of his tokens. Tokens are never added to areas with cities. Tokens may 
be added to an area in excess of its population limit. 
20.2 If a player does not have sufficient tokens in stock to complete his 
population expansion, he divides what tokens he has in stock among the 
eligible areas as he wishes, but otherwise population e,r,pansion is 
automatic and may not be voluntarily curtailed. 
20.3 Population is increased in A.S. T. order. If population increases are 
automatic or do not affect other players, this activity may be carried out 
simultaneously. 
21. CENSUS 
21.1 Each player counts the number of tokens he has on the board. 
Cities and ships are not counted. Except for players who hold Military, 
the player with the most tokens will build ships first and move first in the 
movement phase, followed by the other players in order of decreasing 
token strength. 
21.2 Each player's census marker is placed on the Census Track on the 
space which corresponds to the player's population. A record is now 
available for the order of movement. To resolve ties, the number on the 
census marker indicates that nation's position in the A.S,T. order. 
22. SHIP CONSTRUCTION 
..._.h ..... ' .. ___ 
... 1iI!\I_~ofc:M.. 
W ....... ~CMLD_ 
• 
180 
22.1 Players build and maintain ships in census order. Building 8 shlr 
costs two tokens. This may be paid either from treasury, by a levy ofo..: 
player's tokens from the area in which the ship is being constructed or .. 
a combination of the two. 
22.11 Players who hold Military always build and maintain ships aJur 
players who do nol hold Mililary. 
The order of ship construction Cf 
between those players who hold Mililary is determined normally 
according 10 census order. 
22.2 A ship financed completely from treasury may be placed in !!l .. 
area containing at least one of the player's units. A ship built totally at 
partially by levy must be placed in the area being levied. All tokeos 
spent on ships are returned to stock. 
22.3 Ships already in play must be maintained at a cost of one token per 
turn from treasury or by a levy of one token from the area that the ship 
occupies. Ships which are not maintained are immediately returned to 
stock. 
A player may remove a ship from the board by not paying 
maintenance and build it in a different area in the same phase. 
22.4 A player may not have more than four ships in play at one time. 
23. MOVEMENT 
23.1 Once ship building is completed, players may move some, all, or 
none of their tokens and ships. Cities may not be moved. A player may 
not move another player's units. 
23.2 Players move in census order, the player with the greatest number 
of tokens moving first. 
23.21 Players who hold Milirary always move after players who do not 
hold Mililary. The order of movement as between those players who hoM 
Military is delermined nonnally. according 10 census order. 
23.22 Barbarians, which periodically appear on the board as a calamity, 
move only during the calamity phase in which they appear. 
23.3 Tokens may be moved either across one land boundary into an 
adjacent land area or onto a ship currently occupying the same ar~ 
Tokens may not move across both land and water in the same turn. 
23.31 Players who hold Roadbuilding may move their TOkens Ihrough OM 
land area into a second land area in Ihe same movement phase. The firIl 
area entered may not conlain unilS belonging 10 anolher player 
Barbarians or a Pirale city. Roadbuilding may nor be used ro mo\r~ 
TOkens lhrough a land area lhen on board a ship. 
23.4 Any number of tokens, belonging to any number of players, m.sy 
be moved into the same area. 
Tokens may be moved into an area 
containing a city. Tokens may be moved into an area in excess of the 
area's popUlation limit, although this may result in the later eliminatioii: 
of excess tokens. 
23.S Movement of ships 
23.51 A ship may carry as many as five tokens at one time. OnJy 
tokens which have not been moved overland in the current movemen.t 
phase may embark onto and move with a ship. 
23.52 Ships may only move across water boundaries. A ship may move 
into up to four water areas in the same movement phase. Players may 
not move their ships into open sea areas (4.23) unless they hold 
Astronomy. Ships may travel in any water area, including lakes, but mil) 
not cross all-land boundaries. 
23.53 Players who hold Clolh Making may move their ships into OM 
extra area during each movement phase. 
23.54 Players who hold Astronomy may move their ships inlo open sea 
areas. 
23.55 Ships may end their movement in any water area they can reach. 
other than an open sea area, regardless of whose ships or tokens also 
occupy the area. 
23.56 
A ship may take part in any number of embarkations and 
debarkations of tokens during the same movement phase, and may retrace 
all or part of its route subject only to the limitation on the number of 
areas entered. A ship may thus ferry two loads of tokens across a narrow 
strait or lake, or pick up and set down tokens at different areas along its 
voyage. 
Tokens must be embarked and debarked during the same 
movement phase. A token may not remain aboard a ship at the end of 
a movement phase. A token may not travel on more than one ship in the 
same movement phase. 
23.57 In Greece, some areas have two distinct coastlines. Ships may 
enter such areas from either side, but must leave from the same side. 
Ships may not cross directly from one coastline to another. 
24. CONFLICT 
24.1 Conflict occurs when the tokens of two or more nations occupy the 
same area and the total number of tokens in the area is greater than the 
population limit of the area. An area which contains a city is considered 
to be fully populated. If the population limit of an area containing tokens 
belonging to two or more different nations is not exceeded, the tokens 
will co-exist without conflict. 
24.11 Conflicts may occur between tokens, between tokens and cities, 
and between tokens and cities defended by tokens. A11 conflicts occur in 
land areas. Ships are nevcr involved in conflicts, even if they have 
transported tokens to banle. Ships cannot be captured or eliminated by 
conflict. 
24.12 Tokens and cities eliminated as a result of conflict are returned to 
stock. 
24.2 Conflict Between Tokens 
24.21 Players remove one token at a time alternately until only one 
player's tokens remain in the area or the population level is no longer 
exceeded. A conflict may thus end in co-existence. The player with the 
fewest number of tokens removes first. 
24.22 If both players have an equal number of tokens in the area, they 
remove their tokens simultaneously. As a result, an even number of 
tokens will be present at all stages so that an area wh ich can support only 
one token will end up depopulated. 
24.23 If more than two players are involved in a conflict, tokens are 
removed in ascending order of strength. Two or more players may still 
be required to remove tokens simultaneously. 
24.24 Players who hold Metalworking remove their tokens after players 
who do not hold Metalworking, regardless of the number of their tokens 
as compared to other players. Conflict belWeen players who both hold 
Metalworking is resol¥ed nonnally. 
24.3 Conflicts Between Tokens and Cities 
24.31 Cities remain standing unless attacked by seven or more tokens 
belonging to the same nation. If fewer than seven tokens attack a city, 
they are simply removed without affecting the attacked cily. 
24.32 
If a city is attacked by the required number of tokens, the 
defender replaces the city with six tokens and the rcsulting conflict 
between the attacking and defending tokens is resolved. If the defending 
player has fewer than six tokens in stock he replaces the attacked city 
with what tokens he has and combat is resolved normally . Players are 
entitled to resolve any other conflicts involving their tokens before 
resolving attacks on their cities, so their cities may be replaced by rhe 
maximum number of tokens allowed. 
24.33 Two or more players may not combine to attack a city. If two 
players have tokens in an area containing a city belonging to a third 
player, they battle among themselves until only one player's tokens 
remain. If sufficient tokens survive, the survivor may then attack the 
city, 
24.34 When a Pirate city is attacked by a player. the Pirate city is 
replaced by unused tokens solely for the purpose of resolving combat. 
If any such tokens survive the resulting combat, they are removed from 
the board. 
24.35 Players who hold Engineering require only six tokens to allack a 
ciry. 
The defending ciry is replaced by five tokens, Eight tokens are 
required to auack a dry belonging to a player who holds Engineering. 
9 
The ciry is replaced by seven tokens. 1J both the allacker and defender 
hold Engineering, Ihe effects oj Engineering cancel. 
24.4 Conflicts Between Tokens and Cities Defended By Tokens 
24.41 
Conflict between tokens is resolved before attacks on cities.' 
Tokens defending a city must be eliminated before the city is attacked. 
The city may only be attacked if a sufficient number of attacking tokens 
survive the initial conflict between tokens . 
24.5 Consequences of City Elimination 
24.51 Drawing a trade card: When a city is attacked and eliminated by 
a player, the attacking player immediately draws, at random, one of the 
victim's trade cards and retains it for his own usc. If the victim has no 
trade cards, no such draw occurs. 
24.52 Pillage: In addition to drawing a trade card from the victim, a 
player who successfully attacks a city may transfer up to three tokens 
from his stock to his treasury, to reflect pillage of the destroyed city. 
The attacker may choose to transfer fewer tban three tokens if he wishes. 
The number of tokens which may be pillaged may not exceed the number 
of tokens in the attacker's stock. and can never exceed three tokens per 
city. The victim's treasury and stock are unaffected by pillage. 
24.S3 No trade card is drawn nor docs pillage occur when a city is 
converted by Monotheism, captured by Pirates, eliminated by Barbarians 
or lost as a result of any other calamity or a tax revolt. A trade card is 
drawn and pillage occurs only when one player eliminates another 
player's city by direct attack. A player who attacks and eliminates .. a 
Pirate city may pillage it. 
25. CITY CONSTRUCTION 
25.1 City construction takes place after all conflict is resolved . A city 
may be built in any land area. Each land area may contain only one city. 
No player may have more than nine cities on the board at anyone time. 
25.2 A player with six or more tokens in an area containing a city site 
may build a city in that area by replacing the tokens with a city. In areas 
which do not contain a city site, at least twelve tokens are needed to build 
a city. Tokens used to construct cities are returned to stock. 
25.3 Players who hold Archilecture may use tokens from Iheir treasury 
to assisl in zhe building of one dry each lurn. At least half oflhe lokens 
used must consist of on-board tokens, butllJe remainder may consist of 
tokens taken from lreasury. Archileclure may not be used TO conslruct 
cities in areas which conrain tokens belonging to another player or 
Barbarians. 
26. REMOVAL OF SURPLUS POPULATION 
26.1 
After city construction is completed, all surplus population is 
removed to stock. Areas with cities may not also contain tokens, and 
areas withQut cities may not contain more tokens than allowed by their 
population limits. 
26.11 The population limit in areas containing only tokens belonging to 
a player who holds Agriculture is increased by one. This effect is limited 
TO areas which do not contain olher tokens. Agricuilure has no effecr in 
areas where lOkens are co-existing or during conflict. 
26.2 Ships do not count towards population limits. Any number of ships 
may exist in the same area. For example, if three ships and three tokens 
arc in an area with a population limit of two, one token must be removed 
to stock but the ships may remain without pcnalty. 
26.3 Checking for city support 
26.31 After all surplus population has been removed, each player checks 
for city support. Each player must have two tokens on the board for 
every city in play. These tokens represent the agricultural support needed 
to maintain the urban populations. Players who do not have enough 
tokens on the board to support their cities must reduce their cities, one at 
a time, until there are enough tokens to support the remaining cities. 
26.32 Players who must reduce unsupported cities may select which 
cities are to be reduced first, subject only to the requirement that newly 
constructed cities must be reduced before cities which were built or 
acquired in a previous turn. 
10 
26.4 City reduction 
26.41 Cities are reduced by removing them from play and replacing 
them with the maximum number of tokens allowed by the area's 
population limit. 
These added token(s) can immediately be used as 
support for other cities vulnerable to reduction. If, when attempting to 
reduce a city. players find that they do not have enough tokens in stock 
to meet the population limit, they replace their city with the tokens they 
have in stock. If other cities are still unsupported, they are eliminated. 
26.S City support is checked only at two critical points in each turn -
after the removal of surplus population and after the resolution of 
calamities. These two points are indicated in the Sequence of Play. City 
support is not checked at any other time, other than when resolving Slave 
Revolt (30.42). 
26.6 When city reduction is required as a result of calamities, the 
procedure set out above is followed. 
27. ACQUISITION OF TRADE CARDS 
27.1 Players draw one trade card from as many trade card stacks as they 
have cities on the board. The player with the fewest number of cities on 
the board draws his trade cards first, followed by the player with the next 
fewest number of cities, und so on, until all players have drawn their 
trade cards. 
27.2 Trade cards are always collected by the same mcthod. One card 
is drawn from each stack, progressing from the first stack, until the 
playcr has drawn from the same number of stacks as he has cities on the 
board. A player with three cities in play thus draws one trade card from 
each of the first three stacks, and cannot draw a trade card from the 
fourth or any higher trade card stack until he has more than three cities 
in play. 
27.21 If a stack is empty, a player is not entitled to replace the lost card 
with one from another stack. The player must simply forego drawing a 
trade card from that particular stack. 
27.3 Players may not disclose what trade cards they have drawn as 
they may have acquired a calamity card which they may be able to 
trade to another player. Calamity cards which may not be traded (Vol· 
canolEarthquake, Famine, Civil War and Flood) must be retained by 
the playcr who drew them until all trading is complete. 
27.4 Trade cards must be held in secret. While in a player's hands, 
trade cards are the only one of his items which are not open to inspection 
by other players. 
27.S Buying Gold, Ivory or Piracy 
27.51 A player, regardless of the number of cities he has on thc board, 
may buy one or more trade cards from the ninth (Gold/Ivory) stack at a 
cost of 18 tokens from treasury per card. The spent tokens are returned 
to stock. Trade cards are purchased from the ninth stack immediately 
after the purchasing player collects his trade cards, before any othcr 
players collect their trade cards. 
28. TRADE 
28.1 Players trade to build up sets of the same commodities, as sets are 
more valuable than individual commodity cards. Trade is open to all 
players. 
Offers may be suspended, altered or withdrawn in open 
negotiation between players, but once trade cards have changed hands, 
a deal is complete and cannot be revoked. 
28.2 Trade is carried on by a system of barter involving only trade 
cards. Trade deals may not include treasury or civilization cards. Any 
one trade deal may involve only two players. 
28.3 Each trade must involve at least three trade cards on each side. A 
player with fewer than three trade cards may not trade. When negotiating 
a trade, each player must honestly inform the other of the number of 
trade cards he wishes to trade and at least two of the trade cards involved 
in the trade. This information must be correct· the remaining card or 
cards need not be specified and may consist of any commodity or tradable 
caJamity card(s), regardless of what was said to the other player. A 
playcr may not show his trade cards to another player during negotia-
tions, nor maya player inform other players of the details of a trade after 
it is completed. 
EXAMPLE: A player, wishing to acquire grain, annOUDCea "I want gmin · I 'U trade 
for grain." He agrees with a pr05pective trading partner that be will trade three canh 
including two salt, for. grain. an iron and two Wlknown canh. Thil guarantees that the: 
other player will receive two salt carda. An assurance that the third card is alao • lid: 
doea not guarantee that the third card traded will Dot be a different commodil}', or 
possibly a tnldable calamiI}' card. Similarly. our player can only be sure that he 'NJ.U 
receive one grain. one iron and two other cards. He has no way of knowing what tb: 
other cards will be Wltil he receives them, although mcaningleaa ll85urancC8 can be givea 
by his trading partner. 
28.4 Limiting Ibe trading phase 
28.41 Trading is permitted to continue until all players have completed 
all the deals they wish to make. It is strongly recommended, though, the! 
a time limit of not more than five minutes be imposed upon the tradinf 
phase. 
28.S Commodity Card Sets 
28.51 When a player holds more than one commodity card of the same 
type, the value of the combination is increased according to the following 
formula: square the number of cards held, then multiply the result by the 
value of the commodity. For example, three grain cards (each worth 
four) have a vaJue of 3 x 3 x 4 = 36, rather than 4 + 4 + 4 = 12. 
28.52 The values of the cards when collected in sets is printed on each 
commodity card. Different commodities, even of the same valuc, rna) 
not be combined in sets. 
28.53 Mining increases the value of Iron, Bronze, Silver, Gems or Gold 
by one card. This effect only applies once each lum. For example, if a 
player holding Mining uses Ihree Bronze cards 10 purchase a civilizarion 
card, he could use Mining 10 increase the value oj Ihe ser from 54 to 96 
(lhe value of jour Bronze cards), bUl could nOl also use Mining 10 
increase the value oj a set oj Gems cards in the same tum. Mining may 
not be used 10 increase the value oj a set of commodity cards beyond Ihe 
limit prinled on lhe commodiry card itself. 
29. RESOLUTION OF CALAMITIES 
29.1 All calamities are resolved immediately after trading ends, before 
the acquisition of civilization cards. 
29.2 Non-tradable calamity cards must be retained by the players who 
drew them until the end of trading. Such calamities are resolved against 
the drawing player once trading is completed. 
29.3 Tradable Calamity cards arc also not revealed when drawn. A 
player who draws a tradable calamity eard may trade it to another player. 
A player who receives such a calamity card in trade may in turn trade it 
to another player, and so on, until the trading session ends. There is no 
limit to the number of times a tradable calamity card may be traded. At 
the end of the trading session, all calamity cards are revealed by the 
players who hold them. 
29.4 A player who drew a tradable calamity card need not have trll.ded 
it, but such cards cannot be held for future turns. Subject to 29.5, all 
calamities take effect on the turn in which they are drawn . If a player 
retains a tradable calamity card, he becomes the primary victim of the 
calamity, just as though the card had been traded to him. When a player 
retains a tradable calamity which calls for secondary victims (Epidemic, 
Iconoclasm and Heresy, and Piracy), any other eligible player may be 
named as a secondary victim. 
29.S No player may be the primary victim of more than two calamities 
in the same turn . If a playcr receives marc than two calamities in the 
same turn, his calan1'ities arc shuffled together, and two are drawn at 
random. The rcmaining calamities received by that player are disre-
garded and are returned to the appropriate stack of trade cards. There is 
no restriction on the infliction of secondary effects of calamities. 
29.6 Calamities arc resolved in ascending order, starting with Volcanic 
Eruption/Earthquakeand ending with Piracy. Non·tradablecalamities are 
resolved before tradable calamities of the same numeric value (I.e., the 
order of resolution is Volcanic Eruption, Treachery, Famine. 
Superstition, etc.). 
29.61 The player who holds a calamity card at the end of the trading 
session is the primary victim of that calamity. In many cases, other 
players must be selected by the primary victim as secondary victims. The 
player who traded a tradable calamity card to the primary victim may not 
be selected as a secondary victim. 
EXAMPLE: Crete df1!.WR Epidemic. and trades it to Egypt. At the end of the tradinr 
seaaion. qypt loeea 16 unit poinb. and Crete is inumme from the sccondlU)' effectll of 
the Epidemic, as the player who traded it to Egypt Had Crete not traded Epidemic. it 
would have been the primary victim, and all other playera would be potential secondary 
victims. 
29.62 When resolving calamities, cities arc worth up to five unit points 
and tokens are worth one unit point. If a city is reduced, surviving 
tokens are not counted towards the resolution of the calamity. 
EXA}.{PLE: Africa must remove ten unit points because of Famine. It could remove 
two cities, ten tokens, or any combination thereof. If the African player decided to 
reduce a city, leaving two tokens in its place. this would count as three unit points. 
29.63 Players must fulfill their losses from calamities by the exact 
amount required, if possible. If unable to do so, a player may exceed the 
amount required, but only by as small an amount as is necessary. 
29.64 Whenever a calamity requires that the primary victim direct effects 
against other players, the primary victim must do so. 
29.65 Barbarian tokens and Pirate cities are never affected by calamities. 
29.7 After all calamities are resolved, they are put to one side. After 
civilization cards are purchased, tradable calamity cards are shuffled 
together with returned trade cards of the same value and returned , face 
down, to the bottom of the appropriate stack of trade cards. Non-tradable 
calamity cards are then placed at the bottom of the appropriate stack of 
trade cards. 
29.8 Once all calamities are resolved, players must again check for city 
support as explained above (26.3). 
30. CALAMITIES 
30.1 The effects of tbe various calamities are set out below. 
The 
calamities are listed in the order in which they are resolved. 
Thus 
Volcano/Earthquake and Treachery are placed in the second trade stack, 
Famine and Superstition in the third trade stack, and so on. There are no 
calamities associated with the first trade card stack. These effects are 
reprinted in tbe Summary of Calamity Effects. 
30.2 Second level calamities 
30.21 Volcanic Eruption or Eartbquake 
30.211 If the primary victim has any cities in an area touched by a 
volcano, the volcano erupts and eliminates all units, irrespcctive of 
ownership, in the areas touched by the volcano. If the primary victim 
has cities in areas touched by more than one volcano , the site of the 
eruption is that which causes the greatest total damage to the primary 
victim and any secondary victims. In the event of a tie, the primary 
victim selects the location of the eruption. 
30.212 If the primary victim has no cities in an area touched by a 
volcano, one of his cities is destroyed by earthquake. One city belonging 
to another player is reduced. 
This second city must be in an area 
adjacent to the destroyed city, even across water. As above, the site of 
the earthquake is that which causes the greatest total damage. 
30.213 If the primary victim holds Engineering, an earthquake reduces, 
rarher than destroys, his city. A player who holds Engineering may not 
be selected as a secondary victim of an Earthquake. Engineering has no 
effect on Volcanoes. 
30.22 Treachery 
30.221 One city belonging to the primary victim is replaced by one 
city belonging to the player who traded him the card. If the trading 
playcr has no available cities, the victim's city is eliminated. The play-
er trading the card selects the city. 
30.222 If Treachery is drawn by a player and not traded , one eity 
belonging to that player is reduced. As no one traded the card to thc 
primary victim, no other player benefits from the primary victim's 
misfortune. 
30.3 Third level calamities 
30.31 Famine 
30.311 The pri:nary vlcttm loses ten unit points himself, and must 
instruct other players to remove 20 unit points, no more than eight of 
which may come from anyone player. The primary victim decides how 
many unit points are lost by each of the secondary victims, but the 
secondary victims decide whieh units to remove. 
30.312 Players who hold Pottery may reduce their losses by four unil 
pOinlsforeach Grain lrade card held. Grain cards usedfor this purpose 
11 
are not discarded, but must be pLacedface up infront of the player until 
the end of the turn and may not be used fO acquire civilization cards until 
lhe follOwing lurn. 
30.32 Superstition 
30.321 Three cities belonging to the primary victim are reduced. The 
primary victim chooses which cities. 
30.322 Jjthe primary victim has Mysticism, two cities are reduced; if the 
primary victim holds Deism, one ciry is reduced; if the primary victim 
holds Enlightenment, there is no effect. These effects are not cwnulative. 
The governing effecr is lhar of the highest level Religion card held. 
30.4 Fourth level calamities 
30.41 Civil War 
30.411 The primary victim's nation is divided into two factions. The 
player with the most unit points in stock is the beneficiary of the Civil 
War. This determination is made by counting tokens in stock (one each) 
and cities in stock (five each). If the primary victim has the most units 
in stock there is no Civil War. 
30.412 The composition of the first faction is decided by both the 
primary victim and the beneficiary as follows: 
30.4121 The primary victim begins by selecting 15 unit points. 
30.4122 Jjthe primary victim holds Music he selects an additionalfive 
unir points. If the primary victim holds Drama and Poetry he selects an 
additional five unit poinls. If lhe primary victim holds Denwcracy he 
selects an additional ten unit points. The effects of Music, Drama and 
Poelry, and Democracy are cumulative. 
30.4123 After the primary victim completes his selection, the beneficiary 
selccts an additional 20 unit points belonging to the primary victim to 
complete the first faction. 
30.4124 Jj the primary victim holds Philosophy, the first faction is 
automatically comprised of 15 units chosen by the beneficiary, regardless 
of any other civilization cards held by the primary victim. 
30.413 Whatever remains constitutes the second faction. If there is no 
second faction there is no Civil War. 
30.414 If lhe primary victim holds MiliTary, five unit points are rembved 
from eachfacIion to refleclthe increased destructiveness of the Civil War. 
The required units are removed after factions are selected. Each player 
must, ifpossible, remove the reqUired units from areas adjacent to the 
other faction. 
30.415 The primary victim then decides whether he will continue to play 
the units of the first or second faction. The primary victim retains his 
stock, ships, treasury , civilization cards, and position on the AS. T. The 
beneficiary annexes whichever faction is not retained by the primary 
victim by replacing the units involved with his own. If he runs out of 
units, the remainder are taken over by the next player with the most units 
in stock, and so on. 
30.42 Slave Revolt 
30.421 Fifteen tokens belonging to the primary victim may not be used 
to support his cities. This effect is resolved immediately. After the end 
of the current calamity phase, the tokens again function normally. 
30.422 Cities are reduced one at a time, with the newly available tokens 
being eligible to provide support for the victim's remaining cities (see 
26.6). If the primary victim has less than fifteen tokens on the board, 
only those tokens are affected by Slave Revolt. Tokens placed on the 
board aftcr the resulting reduction of the primary victim's cities may 
always be used for city support. 
30.423 If the primary victim holds Mining, an additionaljive tokens may 
not be usedfor dry SUppOrT. Iflhe primary victim holds Enlightenment, 
the number of tokens which may not be used for city support is reduced 
by five. Jj a player holds both Mining and Enlightenment, lhe effects 
cancel. 
30.5 Fifth level calamities 
30.51 Flood 
30.511 If the primary victim has units on a flood plain (4.42), he loses 
a maximum of 17 unit points from that flood plain. Cities are vulnerable 
12 
to flood if they have been built in areas with no city site or 8. city shown 
as a white square. Cities on black city sites are safe. 
30.512 Ten unit points on the same flood plain belonging to one or 
more secondary victims are also removed. The primary victim divides 
the tcn unit point loss among the secondary victims as he chooses, but the 
secondary victims themselves choose which units are to be lost. If the 
number of units on the affected flood plain belonging to other players 
totals ten unit points or less, all those other players automatically become 
secondary victims and all their units are eliminated. 
30.513 If the primary victim has units on more than one flood plain, the 
flood occurs on the flood plain containing the greatest number of his unit 
points. In the event of tie, the primary victim selects the location of the 
flood. 
30.514 If the primary victim has no units in a flood plain, one of his 
coastal cities is eliminated.. The primary victim chooses the city. If the 
primary victim has no coastal cities, he is unaffected by the flood. 
30.515 A player who holds Engineering who has units on a flood plain 
loses a maximum of seven unil points from flood, whether as a primary 
or secondary victim. if a primary victim who holds Engineering has no 
units on a flood plain, one of his coastal cities is reduced rarher than 
e/iminazed. 
30.52 Barbarian Hordes 
30.521 Initial placement 
30.5211 Fifteen tokens belonging to one of the nations which did not 
start the game are placed in one of the primary victim's start areas. 
These Barbarian tokens are placed in the start area which causes the 
greatest damage to the primary victim. If the primary victim does not 
have units in any of his start areas, the Barbarians are initially placed in 
an empty start area. They may be placed in an area which contains units 
belonging to a player othcr than the primary victim only if no other area 
is available. 
30.5212 Immediately after initial placement, conflict is resolved between 
the newty·placed Barbarians and any units, including those of nations 
other than the primary victim, in the area occupied by the Barbarians. 
30.523 Continued movement 
30.5231 Once conflict arising out of their initial placement is resolved, 
all surviving Barbarians in excess of the population limit of the area of 
initial placement move to the adjacent area which will result in the 
greatest damage to the primary victim. Conflict is again resolved. 
30.5232 This process is repeated until there arc no surplus Barbarian 
tokens. At the end of the calamity phase, surviving Barbarian tokens 
may not exceed the population limits of the areas they occupy. 
30.5233 Barharian~ always move 8S a unit, other than when they leave 
tokens in areas they have already occupied. Barbarians may move across 
water boundaries, but not across open sea areas. 
30.5234 The movemcnt of Barbarians is governed by the principle that 
they always move into the area which causes the greatest immediate 
damage to the primary victim. No calculation is made as to whcther the 
overall damage to the primary victim would be greater if the Barbarians 
went into one area as opposed to another, as the determination of greatest 
damage is made for each Barbarian movement in turn. 
30.5235 All movement and conflict involving Barbarians is complcted 
during the calamity phase, prior to the resolution of any other calamities. 
Once the Barbarians have stopped moving, they remain on the board until 
eliminated by other players. Barbarians do not increase their population 
and may not be selected as secondary victims of calamities. 
30.524 Conflict with other nations 
30.5241 Barbarians must enter areas occupied solely by cities or tokens 
belonging to the primary victim, provided they can inflict damage on the 
primary victim by entering such areas. If they are unable to move into 
such an area, they may enter empty areas or areas occupied by units 
belonging to other nations in order to reach the nearest area in which they 
can inflict damage on the primary victim. 
30.5242 If Barbarians cnter areas containing units belonging to nations 
other than the primary victim, they engage in conflict with those units. 
Barbarians do not attack their own tokens, and thus may pass through 
areas they have already occupied with no ill effects. It is possible that a 
primary victim who has no units near his starting areas might not suffer 
any ill effects from this calamity. as the Barbarians might exhaust 
themselves ravaging and occupying areas while trying to reach the nearest 
vulnerable primary victim units. 
30.525 Resolving ties 
30.5251 If Barbarians have a choice of areas to enter. the player who 
traded the calamity to the primary victim selects the area. If the calamity 
was not traded, such decisions are made by the player with the most units 
in stock at the time the calamity is resolved. 
30.5252 Barbarian tokens do not benefit from any of the attributes oi 
their cantrall ing player. 
30.526 If Barbarians eliminate a city, no trade card is drawn from the 
victim. 
30.527 Crete may not be the primary victim of Barbarian Hordes. 
30.6 Sixth level calamities 
30.61 Epidemic 
30.611 The primary victim loses 16 unit points. The primary victim 
must also order other players to lose 25 unit points of their choice, no 
marc than 10 of which may come from any onc player. The player who 
traded Epidemic to the primary victim may not be selected as a secondary 
victim . 
30.612 A nation removing tokens as a result of an Epidemic must leave 
at least one token in each affected area. Cities which are eliminated by 
an Epidcmic are replaced by at least one token, so citics account for a 
maximum of four unit points when calculating losses from this calamity. 
30.613 If a primary victim of Epidemic holds Medicine, his losses are 
reduced by eighl unil points. If a secondary viClim oj Epidemic holds 
Medicine, his losses are reduced by five unil points. 
30.614 A player who holds Roadbuilding loses an additional five unil 
poinls to Epidemic, both as a primary and a secondary victim. 
30.615 The effects of 30. 613 - 30.614 are cumulative. 
30.7 Seventh level calamities 
30.71 Ovil Disorder 
30.711 All but three of the primary victim's cities are reduced. The 
primary victim chooses which cities are reduced. 
30.712 The number of Ihe primary victim's cities reduced is decreased 
by one for each of the following civilization cards held: Music, Drama 
and Poelry, Law and Democracy. 
30.713 The number of the primary victim's ciries reducedis increased by 
one if Ihe primary victim holds Military. 
30.714 The nwnber of the pn'mary victim's cities reduced is increased by 
one Ij the primary victim holds Roadbuilding. 
30.715 The effects of 30.712 - 30.714 are cumulative. 
30.8 Eighth level calamities 
30.81 Iconoclasm and Heresy 
30.811 Four of the primary victim's cities are reduced. The primary 
victim chooses which cities are reduced. 
30.812 iflhe primary victim holds Law, the number oj cities reduced is 
decreased by one. 
30.813 If the primary victim holds Philosophy, the number of cities 
reduced is decreased by one. 
30.814 If the primary victim holds Theology, the number of cities 
reduced is decreased by three. 
30.815 if lhe primary victim holds Monotheism, the number oj cities 
reduced is increased by one. 
30.816 TJlhe primary victim holds Roadbuilding, ehe number of cities 
reduced is increased by one. 
30.817 The effeClS of 30.812 - 30.816 are cumulative. 
30.818 The primary victim must also order the reduction of a total qf 
two cities belonging to other players. The player who traded Iconoclasm 
and Heresy to the primary victim may not be selected as a secondary 
victim. 
30.819 A secondary victim who holds Philosophy may nor lose more lhan 
one city as a result oj the primary victim's order. A player who holds 
Theology cannol be named as a secondary victim. 
30.9 Ninth level calamities 
30.91 Piracy 
30.911 The primary victim loses two coastal cities. The player trading 
the card selects the cities. These cities are replaced by two pirate cities 
belonging to one of the nations which did not start the game (for 
convenience, use the same units as for Barbarian Hordes). 
30.912 Two coastal cities belonging to two other players are similarly 
replaced by pirate cities, even if the primary victim had fewer than two 
coastal cities and was thus not himself fully affected. The primary victim 
selects these cities. The secondary victims may each lose only one city. 
The player who traded Piracy to the primary victim may not be selected 
as a secondary victim. 
30.913 Pirate cities do not require city support, and remain on the board 
until attacked and destroyed. When a pirate eity is attacked, it is replaced 
by unused tokens solely for the purpose of resolving combat. After 
combat is resolved, any surviving pirate tokens are eliminated. When a 
pirate city is destroyed, the attacker may pillage the city. 
31. ACQUISITION OF CIVILIZATION 
CARDS 
31.1 Each player has the option of acquiring one or more civilization 
cards by turning in commodity cards and treasury tokens and applying 
credits from previously purchased civilization cards. The value of each 
civilization card is printed in large type at the bottom center of the 
civil ization card. 
31.12 Civilization cards are acquired in A.S. T. order. 
This allows 
certain players to see which civilization cards other players are acquiring 
before deciding on their own acquisitions. Bccause there is no limit to 
the number of each type of civilization card, it often may be possible to 
waive this rule so that all players acquire civilization cards simuhaneous-
Iy. 
31.2 The purchase cost of civilization cards must be met by a combina-
tion of the following: 
31.3 Commodity Cards 
31.31 The value of commodity card sets when acquiring civilization 
cards is calculated as set out in 28.51. 
31.4 Tokens 
31.41 Tokens from treasury may be used to acquire civilization cards, 
but a player may not intentionally spend more treasury tokens than 
required. 
31.5 Credits 
31.51 Most civilization cards provide credits towards other cards of the 
same group (group credits), as well as special credits towards certain 
other civilization cards. 
31.52 A summary of credits is printed on the Civilization Card Credits 
table. 
By highlighting across the table when a civilization card is 
acquired, a player can read down the appropriate column to quickly total 
the credits amassed for a particular civilization card. 
31.53 Credits may not be used in the same turn in which they arc 
acquired. A player must wait until the next turn to use credits from 
newly acquired civilization cards. The simplest way to enforce this rule 
is for pla.yers who purchase more than one civilization card to collect 
them at the same ;:ime. 
31.54 A credit from a civilization card which is already owned by a 
player may be applied towards the purchase of more than one additional 
civilization card, but the credit may only bc applied once to each new 
card. For example, a player holding Astronomy, which gives a 20 point 
credit towards all other sciences, may apply the 20 point credit to the 
purchase of both Coinage and Medicine in the same turn, but the credit 
from Astronomy may only be applied once to each new card. 
13 
31.55 Four civilization cards (Engineering, Mathematics, Literacy and 
Mysticism) belong to two groups. These are printed with both group 
colors along the top. These cards receive all the advantages of both 
groups. For example, a player wishing to acquire Engineering receives 
credits from his orange craft cards and his green science cards. 
Conversely, a player who already holds Engineering may use both the 
craft and science credit associated with Engineering when acquiring other 
civilization cards. 
31.551 A civilization card with two colors counts for two groups when 
determining whether the entry conditions for certain epochs are met 
(33.23). 
31.56 A player must use a credit if it applies to a civilization card he is 
purchasing. He cannot choose to ignore the credit in order to spend 
treasury tokens. 
31.57 If a player has sufficient credits to acquire a civilization card 
without any expenditure of commodity cards or treasury tokens, he may 
acquire that civilization card at no cost. 
31.58 No ~change" is given if the value of commodity cards and credits 
exceeds the value of the civilization cards being purchased. Any excess 
is lost. 
EXAMPlE: A player hold. Mysticillm (acquired in a prevtous roWld), six tnlde aud. 
(three GOlin, two Papyrus, and one Hides), and. ten tokens in treasury. He willhea to 
acquire the Music card (value 60). Consulting the Civilization Card Credits table, our 
player ICeS thBt Mysticism provides five points in credit; the trade cards have a value of 
45 (36 for the Gillin, eight for the Papyrus and one for the Hide); and the treasury holdB 
ten tokcllB. The total value is 60 points (five in credits + 45 in trade cardB + 10 in 
trC8llUry) • just enough to acquire Music. 
31.6 Restric.tions 
31.61 A player may acquire one, and only one, of each of the 24 
civilization cards. A player may not hold more than one of each type of 
civili7.ation card. 
31.62 Ccrtain civilization cards may only be acquired if a player already 
acquired another civilization card in a previous turn. Engineering is 
required for Roadbuilding and Mining; Law is required for Democracy 
and Philosophy; Enlightenment is required for Monotheism and 
Theology. 
31.63 Once acquired, civilization cards may not be discarded or traded. 
31.7 Returning Exc.ess Conunodity Cards 
31.71 After completing purchases of civilization cards, players may 
retain up to eight commOdity cards in their hands for the next turn. 
Players may not conceal the number of commodity cards they retain. 
Any excess commodity cards of the player's choice must be surrendered, 
displayed, shuffled together with commodity cards used to acquire 
civilization cards and with calamities which take place in the same turn, 
then placed, face down, at the bottom of the appropriate trade card stack. 
31.72 Tradable ealamity cards may not be retained or surrendered. If 
a tradable calamity is not traded and resolved against another player. it 
is resolved against the player who drew it. 
31.8 Restacking Returned Trade Cards 
31.81 Once all players have acquired civilization cards, all commodity 
cards used for that purpose, excess commodity cards and any tradable 
calamity cards which were drawn in that turn are shuffled together and 
placed, face down, at the bottom of the appropriate trade card stack. 
31.82 Any non-tradable calamity cards which were drawn that turn arc 
then placed at the bottom of the appropriate trade card stack. 
32. CIVILIZATION CARD ATTRmUTFS 
32.1 The groups, cost, attributes and credits associated with the various 
civilization cards are described below. Details of how civilization cards 
affect calamities are found in the rules relating to the calamity. The 
credits given by each civilization card towards the purchase of 
additional civilization cards are also set out in the Civilization Card 
Credit table, printed on the back of the rulebook. 
32.2 Crafts 
32.21 Pottery (Craft· 45) 
32.211 The effects of Famine are reduced if the affected player holds 
Pottery and one or more Grain cards (30.312). 
14 
32.212 Pottery provides a credit of 10 points to all other Craft cards, 
Democracy and Monotheism. 
32.22 Cloth MBking (Craft - 45) 
32.221 Ships may move an extra area - five areas instead of four. 
32.222 Oath Making provides a 10 point credit to all other Craft cards, 
Democracy and Monotheism. 
32.23 Metalworking (Craft - 80) 
32.231 [0 conflicts, a player with metalworking always removes his 
token after all other players without metalworking have removed theirs, 
even though the other player(s) may have larger forces. Among players 
who hold Metalworking there is no effect. 
32.232 Metalworking provides a credit of 10 paiRes to all other Craft 
cards, Democracy and Monotheism, and 20 points to M ilitary. 
32.24 Agriculture (Craft - 110) 
32.241 The population limit in areas occupied solely by tokens belonging 
to a player who holds Agriculture is increased by one. Thus an area 
which normally has a population limit of two can support three tokens. 
This effect increases the number of tokens substituted for reduced cities 
by one, but does not apply during conflicts or in areas which contain 
tokens belonging to other nations. 
32.242 Agriculture provides a credit of 10 points to all other Craft cards, 
Democracy and Monotheism. 
32.25 Roadbuilding (Craft - 140) 
32.251 Players who hold Roadbuilding may move their tokens through 
one land area into a second land area in the same movement phase. The 
first area entered may not contain units belonging to another player, 
Barbarians or a Pirate eity. 
Roadbuilding may not be used to move 
tokens through a land area and then on board a ship. 
32.252 Roadbuilding aggravates the effects of Epidemic (30.614), Civil 
Disorder (30.714) and Iconoclasm and Heresy (30.816). 
32.253 
Roadbuilding may only be acquired by a player who has 
Engineering. 
32.254 Roadbuilding provides a credit of to points to all othcr Craft 
cards, Democracy and Monotheism. 
32.26 Mining (Craft - 180) 
32.261 Mining allows the holder to increase the value of any set ofIron, 
Bronze, Silver, Gems or Gold by one card when acquiring civilization 
cards or when evaluating his hand for A.S.T. or victory condition 
purposes. Mining may not be used to increase the value of a set of 
commodity cards beyond the limit printed on the commodity card itself. 
This ability may only be used unce per turn. 
EXAMPLE: A player holda Mining. If he tuma in three Iron cards, their value ill 
calculated lUI though there were four Iron canis (32 TlIther than 18). If two Gems cards 
were turned in. they would be worth 72 TlItherthan 32. but the Mining card could not be 
wed to inctease both Iron and Gems in the same tum. not could it be used to increase 
the value of retained conunodity carda later in the same tum if already used when 
acquiring civilization cards. 
32.262 Mining aggravates the effects of a Slave Revolt (30.423). 
32.263 Mining may only be acquired by a player who has Engineering. 
32.264 Mining provides a credit of 10 points to all other Craft cards, 
Democracy and Monotheism. 
32.3 Crafts/Sciences 
32.31 Engineering (Craft/Science - 140) 
32.311 Players who hold Engineering require only six tokens to attack 
a city. The defending city is replaced by five tokens. Eight tokens are 
required to attack a city belonging to a player who holds Engineering. 
The city is replaced by seven tokens. If both the attacker and defender 
hold Engineering, the effects of Engineering cancel. 
32.312 Engineering reduces the cffects of Earthquakc (30.213) and 
Flood (30.515). 
32.313 A player must hold Enginccring before he acquircs either Mining 
or Roadbuilding. 
32.314 Engineering provides a credit of 10 points to all other Craft 
cards, Democracy and Monotheism; and 20 points to all other Science 
cards, Philosophy and Theology. 
32.4 Sciences 
32.41 Astronomy (Science - 80) 
32.411 Ships belonging to a player who holds Astronomy may cross 
open seas. 
32.412 Astronomy provides a 20 point credit to all other Science cards. 
Philosophy and Theology. 
32.42 Coinage (Science - 110) 
32.421 
Players who hold Coinage may vary their taxation rate by 
increasing it to three tokens per city or decreasing it to onc token pet 
city. The same tax. must be levied on each city in a given round. A 
taxation rate may be set which causes the revolt of some cities. 
32.422 Coinage provides a credit of 20 points to all other Science cards, 
Philosophy and Theology. 
32.43 Medicine (Science - 140) 
32.431 Medicine reduces the effect of Epidemic (30.613). 
32.432 Medicine provides 11 I..:n:t1it of 20 points to all other Scicnce 
cards, Philosophy and Theology. 
32.S Science! Arts 
32.54 Mathematics (Science/Arts - 230) 
32.541 Mathematics provides a credit of 20 points to all other Science 
cards, 5 points to all other Arts cards and Law, to points to 
Enlightenment and 25 points to Philosophy and Theology. 
32.6 Arts 
32.61 Drama and Poetry (Arts - 60) 
32.611 Drama and Poetry reduces the effects of Civil War (30.4122) and 
Civil Disorder (30.712). 
32.612 
Drama and Poetry provides a credit of 5 points towards 
Mathematics, Music, Architccture, Law and Mysticism, 10 points 
towards Democracy and Enlightcnment, and 20 points towards Literacy. 
32.62 Music (Arts - 60) 
32.621 Music reduces the cffects of Civil War (30.4122) and Civil 
Disorder (30.712). 
32.622 Music provides a credit of 5 points towards Drama and Poetry, 
Architecture, Literacy, Law and Mysticism, 10 points towards Democ-
racy and Enlightenment, and 20 points towards Mathematics and 
Philosophy. 
32.63 Architecture (Arts - 120) 
32.631 
Players who hold Architecture may use tokens from their 
treasury to assist in the building of one city each turn. At least half of 
the tokens used must consist of on-board tokens, but the remainder may 
consist of tokens taken from treasury. Architecture may not be used to 
construct cities in areas whieh contain tokens belonging to another player 
or Barbarians. 
32.632 Architecture provides a credit of 5 points towards all other Arts 
cards, 10 points to Democracy and Enlightenment, and 15 points to Law. 
32.7 Arts/CivIcs 
32.71 Literacy (Arts/Civic - 110) 
32.711 Literacy provides a credit of 5 points to all other Arts cards, 10 
points to Enlightenment and 25 points to Law, Democracy and Philoso-
phy. 
32.8 Civics 
32.81 Law (Civic - 170) 
32.811 
Law reduces the effects of Civil Disorder (30.712) and 
Iconoclasm and Heresy (30.812). 
32.812 A player must hold Law before he acquires either Dcmocracy or 
Philosophy_ 
• 
32.82 Democracy (Civic· 200) 
32.821 A player who holds Democracy is immune from tax revolts. 
32.822 Democracy reduces the effects of Civil War (30.4122) and Civil 
Disorder (30.712). 
32.823 Democracy may only be acquired by a player who holds Law. 
32.83 Military (Civic· 180) 
32.831 Players who hold Military always move after players who do not 
hold Military. The order of movement as between those players who 
hold Military is determined normally, according to census order. 
Military has a similar effect on the order of ship construction. 
32.832 If a player holding Military has a Civil War, both factions lose 
5 unit points after the Civil War is resolved (30.414). 
32.833 Military aggravates the effects of Civil Disorder (30.713). 
32.84 Philosophy (Civic· 240) 
32.841 Philosophy alters the effects of Civil War (not necessarily for the 
better· 30.4124) and reduces the effects of Iconoclasm and Heresy 
(30.813,30.819). 
32.842 Philosophy may only be acquired by a player who holds Law. 
32.9 Religion 
32.91 Mysticism (Religion/Arts· 50) 
32.911 Mysticism reduces the effects of Superstition (30.322). 
32.912 Mysticism provides a credit of 5 points to all other Arts cards 
and 15 points to all other Religion cards. 
32.92 Deism (Religion· 80) 
32.921 Deism reduces the effects of Superstition (30.322). 
32.922 
Deism provides a credit of 15 points to Enlightenment, 
Monotheism and Theology. 
32.93 Enlightenment (Religion· 150) 
32.931 Enlightenment nullifies the effects of Superstition (30.222), and 
reduces the effects of Slave Revolt (30.423). 
32.932 A player must hold Enlightenment before he acquires either 
Monotheism or Theology. 
32.933 Enlightenment provides a credit of 15 points to Monotheism and 
Theology. 
32.94 Monotheism (Religion· 220) 
32.941 At the end of the calamity phase, prior to the acquisition of 
civilization cards, a player holding Monotheism may convert the 
occupants of anyone area adjacent by land to an area containing his own 
units by replacing the units in that area with his own units. An arca 
containing either a city or one or more tokens may be taken over in this 
manner, being rcplaced by a city or tokens, respectively. 
32.942 If the player holding Monotheism does not have sufficient units 
in stock to replace units in a target area, he may not convert that area. 
The area must be adjacent by land to an area containing the player's own 
units, and may not be occupied by units belonging [0 another player who 
also has Monotheism or ThCQlogy. Barbarian tokens and Pirate cities 
may not be converted by Monotheism. 
32.943 Monotheism aggravates the effects of Iconoclasm and Hercsy 
(30.815). 
32.944 Monotheism may only be acquired by a player who holds 
Enlightenment. 
32.95 Theology (Religion· 250) 
32.951 Theology reduces the effects of Iconoclasm and Heresy (30.814, 
30.819). 
32.952 A player who holds Theology is not affected by Monotheism. 
32.953 
Theology may only be acquired by a player who holds 
Enl ightenment. 
15 
33. MOVEMENT OF MARKERS ON THE A.S.T. 
33.1 At the end of each turn, each player's marker is moved one space 
to the right along the A.S.T. In some situations, a marker may not move 
forward or may even be moved backward one space. 
33.11 A player's marker may not enter a new epoch unless the epoch 
entry requirements are met. 
33.2 Epoch Entry Requirements: 
33.21 Stone Age - none. 
33.22 Early Bronze Age - two cities in play. 
33.23 Late Bronze Age - three cities in play and ownership of at least 
three groups of civilization cards (Le., three of the five colors must be 
present). Remember that some cards belong to and count as two groups. 
33.24 Early Iron Age - four cities in play and ownership of at least nine 
civilization cards, including civilization cards from all five groups (i.e., 
all five colors must be present). 
33.25 Late Iron Age - five cities in play. Each space in the Late Iron 
Age contains a point value. 
To enter such a space, the value of a 
player's civilization cards must at least equal the value printed in the 
space. Commodity cards and treasury arc not counted. 
33.3 If a player has fewer cities in play than the number required to 
enter an epoch, his marker is frozen on the A.S.T. and may not advance 
further in that epoch until he has again constructed the required number 
of cities. This determination is made at the time markers are moved 
along the A.S.T. 
33.4 If a player ends a round with no cities in play, his marker moves 
backwards on the A.S.T. at the rate of one space per turn, unless that 
player is in the Stone Age, which has no city requirement. 
VI. WINNING THE GAME 
34. THE END OF THE GAME 
34.1 The game ends when either of the following conditions is met: 
A. At least one player moves his marker onto a finish square on the 
A.S.T. The move into the finish square counts as the last step along the 
A.S. T. The player who first reaches a finish square on the A.S.T. does 
not necessarily win the game. 
B. A predetermined time limit is reached. 
34.2 Because of the Icngth of time required to move to the end of the 
A.S.T., games will often end when a time limit is reached. In the 
interest of fairness, this time limit should be set before the game starts. 
Players must complete the final turn before determining the winner. 
35. VICTORY DETERMINATION 
35.1 The winner is determined by adding the value of the following: 
A. Civilization cards (the total face value). 
• B. Commodity cards (the total value of sets plus the face value of 
individual cards). 
C. Tr('.asury (the number of tokens in Treasury). 
D. A.S.T. position (100 points for each space). 
E. Cities (50 points for each city on the board). 
35.2 The player with the highest point value is the winner. This will not 
necessarily be the player with the most valuable civilization cards or the 
player who is furthest along the AS.T., although both arc an important 
source of points. If two or more players have the same number of 
points, the game is a tie. 
