An exciting strategy game  
for 2 to 4 adventurers  
from ages 10 to  99.
TL 86860
Wolfgang Kramer & Michael Kiesling
n Adventure Land, King Agamis rules from his castle. Rich 
cities, vast forests and rugged mountain ranges, the majestic 
river and the fog areas dominate the country. The large river is 
rich with gold, the forests  are known for their medicinal herbs 
and there is an abundance of mines in the mountains, where 
the best swords, far and wide, are forged.  
But many dangers lurk there; the fog areas on both banks 
of the large river are home to the dangerous fog creatures 
which attack innocent adventurers. This has been hap-
pening more often lately and King Agamis fears that the fog 
creatures will soon be a threat to the cities. Therefore he 
calls upon adventurers from all over to come to Adventure 
Land to protect the cities, acquire companions and fight the 
fog creatures.  
Before you start playing, decide on one of the three adven-
turescenarios. Each adventure has different game objecti-
ves and therefore conveys a different feel when playing the 
game. We recommend starting with Adventure 1 (The Fel-
lowship), the simplest of the three adventures. Adventure 2 
(The Magnificent) is a little more challenging and in Adven-
ture 3 (Escape to the Cities) there are many things to pay 
attention to simultaneously.
These instructions contain the basic rules, which apply to all 
of the adventures. Each adventure has its own overviewcard, 
which not only lists the victory conditions of the given ad-
venture but also any rule changes. 
May the bravest win!
I
Place the game board in the middle of the table. 
Shuffle the following cards and place them face down, each 
on their own stack, next to the board:
◆ 	Terrain cards
◆ Fog creatures
◆ 	Sword tiles
◆ 	Herb tiles
Place the 30 companions and the water sprite next to the 
game board, place the gold tiles next to them.
Decide which of the three adventures you would like to 
play in this game:
1. The Fellowship
2. The Magnificent
3. Escape to the Cities
Place the appropriate adventure overview card on the ta-
ble. At a glance, players can easily see the game objectives 
while playing.  
Each player chooses a color, and places the scoring marker 
of that color on the number 0 on the scoring track. The 
number of adventurers per player, as well as companions 
and swords, depends on the number of players.
Before playing, set the specified number of adventurers, 
companions and swords according to this table aside and 
put them back in the box. 
Each player places an adventurer in the starting area 
outside the rows 1, 2, 3, 4 and the columns A, B, C, D. In a 
two-player game, each player also places an adventurer in 
the starting area outside row 5 and column E.
Turn over 8 terrain cards and place the respective tiles or 
companions on the game board (see “1. Turn over 2 ter-
rain cards and placing items on the game board”).  
Important: For every fog card drawn and placed, another 
terrain card has to be drawn after the action correspon-
ding to the fog card has been performed.
Create a face up discard pile from the drawn terrain cards.
Number of	
	
Back in the box	
   players            adventurers of 	
  companions and
	
               each color	 	
swords (no. of each)
         2	
	
    0	
	
               8
         3	
	
    2	
	
               5
         4	
	
    2	
	
               2
Take turns in a clockwise direction starting with the youngest player. 
Everyone may perform two actions during their turn: 
1. Turn over 2 terrain cards and place items on the game board
2. Move adventurer(s)
1. Turn over 2 terrain cards and place items on the game board 
The player draws two terrain cards from the deck. The coordinates on the cards 
indicate which items from the stockpile need to placed on the corresponding 
game board fields. After the appropriate tile is placed on the board, used cards 
go to the discard pile.
Forest: The top herb card from the stack, unseen 
and face down.
Mountains: The top sword tile from the stack,  
face down.  
2
3
30 x city 
cards
18 x river 
cards
28 x moun-
tain cards
14 x fog 
cards
20 x forest 
cards
110 terrain cards
B 4
B 4
B 4
B 7
B 7
B 7
B 5
B 5
B 5
H 4
H 4
H 4
30 companions
1 water sprite
4 scoring markers (black, green, violet, orange)
3 adventure overview cards
40 adventurers (10 x black, 10 x green,  
10 x violet, 10 x orange) 
1 game board
Set up for 2 players
G a m e  c o n t e n t s
P r e pa r at i o n
3 dice
A 1
A 1
A 1
TL 86857
H o w  t o  p l ay
A 1
A 1
A 1
TL 86857
4 x 	
     4 x	
           3 x 	                2 x  	
    1 x 
14 fog creatures: 
28 swords (additional values ​0, 1, 2, 3) 
80 tiles: 
20 herbs (values ​2, 3, 4)
18 gold pieces
B 4
B 4
B 4
City: A companion
B 5
B 5
B 5
2. Move adventurer(s)
There are two ways to move adventurer(s): 
Either move one adventurer as far in a direction of your 
choice as you like twice, or two adventurers once each. You 
may also move only one adventurer one field, or decide not 
to move at all. 
R u l e s  o f  m o v e m e n t :
Important: You may move adventurers as far southwards  
(= down) or eastwards (= right) as possible. But you must 
not move northwards (= up) or westwards (= left)!
◆ 	Adventurers may leap over other adventurers,  
companions and tiles (except fog creatures).
◆ 	You must not leap over fog creatures or the water sprite. 
◆ If an adventurer moves (with or without companions, see 
below) onto a field with a tile or a companion, do the 
following: 
	
■ River: Take the piece of gold from the field and place it 	
	 	 in front of you.
	
■ Forest, mountain: Check the value of the herb or sword 	
	 	 tile, then place it face down in front of you.
	
■ City: The companion joins your adventurer. From now 	
	 	 on both characters move together over the game board. 	
	 	 An adventurer can have any number of companions.
	
■ Fog: You have to fight a fog creature (see below).
◆ An adventurer‘s move may end on a field with tiles or 	
	 companions, or on an “empty” field.  The move must not 	
	 end on a field which is already occupied by another 		
	 adventurer or the water sprite. If an adventurer is already 	
	 sitting on a field on which an item or companion appears, 	
	 he can immediately add this item to his stockpile, a 		
	 companion also immediately joins the adventurer. If an 	
	 adventurer is on a field on the river, when a gold tile 	
	 appears, he receives the gold before he is kicked out of the 	
	 game by the water sprite.
◆ A move must not end on a field with another adventurer or 	
	 the water sprite.
Example:
At the beginning of his turn, Martin turns over cards J3 (place 
a companion on J3) and D7 (place a fog creature on D7) from 
the stack. Because he drew a fog card, he has to draw another 
card: I4 (place a herb tile on I4). He now moves one of his 
adventurers from the start area in front of row 3 to the field J3, 
and places it next to the companion. Then he moves another 
one of his adventurers from field E2 to field E9 and takes the 
gold lying there.  
   
River: A gold tile 
	 Water Sprite Rule
	 Whenever a gold tile appears on the game 	 	
	 board, the water sprite is placed on top of the 	
	 gold.  
 If the water sprite is already on the river, pull it 
along the river to where the new gold appeared.  
Attention: All adventurers and their companions on 
the river passed by the water sprite are immediately 
removed from the game! Put them back in the box!
Fog: The top fog creature from the stack, face up 
 
Important: After placing the fog creature on its game 
board field, you need to draw  draw another terrain 
card from the stack for each uncovered fog creature 
and place the appropriate tile. In other words the fog 
cards do not count as one of  the two terrain cards per 
turn.
Combat strength of the fog creature
A battle takes place as soon as an adventurer 
moves to a field occupied by a fog creature. In 
order to defeat a fog creature, the adventurer 
must have at least the same combat strength 
level as shown on the fog creature tile (red num-
ber). The combat strength level of your adventu-
rer is determined as follows:
Adventurer: Every adventurer has a combat strength level  
	
of 1.
+ companion(s): For each of the adventurer’s companions 
add a combat strength level of 1.
+ swords:	
Before the fight, you decide how many swords 
you want to use in the battle (up to maximum 
of 3). For each used sword, you then get one 
roll of the dice. Add the total amount rolled on 
the dice to your combat strength level. If your 
used swords have extra value (blue number), 
add these numbers as well. Do not touch the 
dice, if you want to use gold.
= combat strength level of the adventurer
If your combat strength level does not match the level of the 
fog creature yet, you can still win the fight by using herbs 
and/or gold.
+  herbs:	 The combat strength level of each herb is on 
the herb tile (green number). You can use as 
many herb tiles in a battle as you like. Add the 
sum to your combat strength level. Contributed 
herb points exceeding the needed amount for 
the fight are lost. Herb tiles used, are out of the 
game.
+ gold	
There are 2 ways, to use gold in a battle: 
	
1. You gain a combat strength level of 1 for each 
gold piece which you put back in the stockpile.  
	
2. You may roll one die for each piece of gold 
you put back in the stockpile. Important: The 
new roll of the die replaces the previous result 
of said die. If you are not happy with the new 
roll, you may use another piece of gold and roll 
one die again (and so on).
You do not have to give up any swords in order to win a 
fight. An adventurer can defeat a fog creature using only 
its own combat strength level, companions, herbs and/or 
gold. 
Did you win the battle? Take the fog creature from the 
game board and place it face down in front of you. Your 
adventurer and his companion(s) remain on the field.  
Did you lose the battle? The adventurer, his companion(s), 
used sword(s), herb(s) and gold are taken out of the game 
and put back in the box. The fog creature remains on its 
field.  
If you believe the fight cannot be won, you do not have to 
contribute any herbs or gold.
Important:  If a fog creature appears on a field occupied by an adventurer, the battle starts immediately, whether it is his turn 
or not. After the fight the turn of the player who has uncovered the fog creature continues.
As you would lose this fight with your combat level 
reaching only 11, you use a herb tile worth a 
combat strength level of 4. 
Thus you have reached a combat strength level of 
15, and are able to defeat the fog creature. Take the 
fog creature tile and place it face down in front of 
you. You don‘t receive any herbs as “change” for the 
extra combat strength level of 3 of your herb.
Instead of using a valuable herb tile, you could 
have reached the combat strength of 12 by giving 
up a piece of gold, or using a gold tile to roll the die 
again. If you had then rolled only a 1 or 2 again 
and didn‘t have any more gold/herbs, then the 
battle would have been lost. 
	
Adventurer: 	
	
	
            Combat strength  
	
	
	
	
            level 1
2 companions:	
         Combat strength 	
	
         level 2 (1+1)
Swords dice	
       	
       	
            Combat strength 	
points:	 	
	
	
            level 5 (3+2) 
Extra value	
	
       Combat strength
of swords: 	
 	
       level 3 (2+1)
Total combat strength level:	
            11 points
4
Example: The fog creature to be fought has a combat strength level of 12 (red number). You move one adventurer 
(combat strength level +1) and its 2 companions (combat strength level +2) to the field of the fog creature. You contri-
bute two swords, one with an extra value of 2 and the other of 1. You get to roll two dice, which show 3 and 2 respecti-
vely. 
5
B 7
B 7
H 4
H 4
H 4
The game ends when there are no more swords and no 
more companions in the stockpile. The ongoing round 
is finished thus ensuring that each player gets the same 
number of turns. 
In the rare event that none of the adventurers can move 
anymore the game ends immediately, even if the swords 
and companions have not all been used yet. If only a few 
of the players are no longer able to move their adventu-
rers, they keep their victory points but the game continu-
es without them.
The method for adding up victory point and establishing 
the final score is different for every adventure. You may 
find the details for each adventure listed on the adventure 
overview cards. 
Examples for adding up victory points in  
Adventures 1 to 3
If there are no companions left on the table to put them on the game board, take one from the box. If there are no sword 
tiles left in the stockpile on the table, shuffle the discarded ones in the box face down and draw one.
◆ Place the game board in the middle of the table 
◆ Depending on the number of players, sort out adventurers, swords and companions
◆ Place the adventurers in the starting area (1, 2, 3, 4, A, B, C, D; in two-player game 5 and E as well)
◆ Place the terrain cards, fog creatures, swords, herbs and gold, companions and the water sprite next to the game 	
	 board
◆ Turn over 8 terrain cards (plus one additional card for every drawn fog card) and equip game board accordingly 	
	 (place water sprite on each newly uncovered gold)
◆ Decide on Adventure 1, 2 or 3
◆ Different in all three adventures.
6
7
E n d  o f  t h e  g a m e
Adventure 1
Martin moves an adventurer on a field with a companion and 
immediately receives 1 victory point. He moves his scoring marker 
1 space forward. Afterwards he moves this adventurer and his 
companion to another companion and receives another 2 victory 
points (move scoring marker another two spaces). If he moves a 
different adventurer to a new companion in his next turn he will be 
rewarded with another 1 victory point, etc. 
If Martin receives a piece of gold, he can move his scoring marker 
2 spaces forward. Even if he uses this piece of gold lateron in the 
game, he will keep those 2 victory points. 
If Martin defeats a fog creature, he moves his scoring marker 
forward the number of spaces according to the number in the laurel 
wreath.
3 defeated fog creatures with  
8, 7 and 7in the laurel wreaths       8 + 7 + 7	
= 22 victory points
Defeated the most fog creatures           extra	
= 7 victory points
2 gold tiles	
           = 2 x 2 	
= 4 victory points
The second most gold of  
all players	
           extra 	
= 3 victory points
The most adventurers +  
companions in city B5/B6/ 
C6/ C7 (4 fields), (tied with  
another player)	
	
= 4 victory points
The most adventurers +  
companions in city E5/F4/F5 (3 fields)	
= 3 victory points
The second most adventurers +  
companions in the big city  
around K10 (12 fields)  	
           = 12 : 2	
= 6 victory points
Minus points for 2 adventurers +  
1 companion outside the city, and  
5 fog creatures still on the board         = 5 x 3	
= - 15 victory points
Total	
	
= 34 victory points
Adventurer 3
2 defeated fog creatures with  
5 and 6 points in the laurel  
wreaths	
= 5 + 6 = 11 x 2	
= 22 victory points
Group “The Magnificent”  
consists of 3 adventurers  
and 5 companions	
= 8 Figures x 3	
= 24 victory points
2 gold tiles  	
= 2 x 2 	
= 4 victory points
2 herb tiles with 3 and 4 points 	 = 3 + 4 	
= 7 victory points
3 sword tiles with extra  
value of 0, 1 and 3	
= 0 + 1 + 3	
= 4 victory points
 
	
              	
	
	
Total	
	
= 61 victory points
Adventure 2
Authors: 	
Wolfgang Kramer, Michael Kiesling
Illustrator: 	
Franz Vohwinkel
Editor:	 	
Jürgen Valentiner-Branth
Copyright HABA-Spiele Bad Rodach 2015, Art.-Nr. 300928
G a m e  p r e pa r at i o n
A i m  o f  t h e  G a m e
H o w  t o  p l ay
E n d  o f  t h e  g a m e
Quick Reference Guide
◆ Turn over 2 terrain cards (plus one additional card for every drawn fog card) and place tiles on the game board 	
	 (place water sprite on each uncovered gold, adventurers and companions in path of water sprite are out of the 	
	 game)
◆ Move adventurer(s): 1 adventurer two directions or 2 adventurers one direction each (as far as you like, never 	
	 back)
◆ Reached a field with a sword, herbs or gold: Collect tiles
◆ Reached a field with a companion: Companion moves with adventurer from now on
◆ Reached a field with a fog creature: Battle  
	 If adventurer gathers the required combat strength level (red number), the battle is won (player receives fog 	
	 creature tile as reward).
	
	 Adventurers 	
	
	
= 1 combat strength level
 	
+ Companions 	 	
	
= 1 combat strength level per companion
 	
+ Sword 	
	
	
= 1 roll of 1 die per sword (count numbers on dice)
 	
+ Additional value of the sword(s)
 	
+ Gold 	 	
	
	
= 1 combat strength level or roll 1 die once again.
 	
+ Herbs 		
	
	
= combat strength level according to the number on the tiles
	 If a battle is lost, the according adventurer and their companion(s) are out of the game.
	 Items used in a battle are out of the game..
◆ Companions and swords all used up = End of the game
◆ Depending on the adventure: Final scoring
WARNING:
CHOKING HAZARD - 
Small parts. Not for children  
under 3 years.
!
