Rules for African T!hti (The Star of Africa)
Written in a fit of boredom on 2007-06-01 by J!rgen Lundberg
Intro
These rules are written direct from memory so it may have some errors.
I'm Swedish so forgive any spelling and grammatical errors... :)
I had the older version of the game as a kid but now I have the newer
(Swedish) print. The rules here are from the newer Swedish print.
Object of the game
Find the Star of Africa and return it to one of the starting cities.
Setup
Shuffle the markers and put them face down on the cities on the map.
Each player choose a meeple and also get 5000 from the bank.
(At least In the Swedish version the bills are 10000, 5000 and 1000.
If this is not the case for your game you can probably figure out the
correct proportions.)
Game play
Roll the die, move your meeple. It's ok to stop in a city even if you
have rolled a higher number than needed. When in a city that has a marker
you have two choices. Either pay the bank 1000 and turn the marker at 
once, or roll the die and if you get 4-6 you can turn the marker.
When someone find the Star of Africa that players goal is to go to one
of the starting cities to win. The other players can only win the game
by finding a visa (horse shoe in the older games) in one of the cities
and then getting to a starting city before the player that carries
the Star of Africa.
Transportation
Flying will cost you 3000, you don't have to roll.
Traveling by boat set you back 1000 when you leave a city (not every
roll) and you roll the die to move.
Markers
The Star of Arfica Get to one of the starting cities fast!
Visa If someone has found the Star of Africa get to
 one of the starting before that player to win.
 If the Star of Africa has not been found it's
 worth nothing (you can't keep it)
Gem stones You get the amount of money from the bank.
 The new game has the values printed on the marker
 but if I remember correctly my old version hasn't
 so here's the values (I think they are correct):
 5000 for the red ones
 3000 for the yellow ones
 1000 for the green ones
Black marker Nothing to see here, move on...
Robber You loose all you money! Put them back in
 the bank.
Stuff I don't know where to put
* The first player to reach Cape Town get 5000 from the bank.
* There are dots on the map with blue circles around them. If you end up
 at one of those you're stuck here for one round.
* If you travel to an island and get robbed. You get stuck for one round
 and can then take a boat from the island.
* If you find a gem in the city "The Golden Coast" you get double the

 amount from the bank.