AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 1 of 13 
 
THE AVALON HILL GAME COMPANYS TRADEMARK 
FOR ITS DESERT CAMPAIGN GAME 
1. COMPONENTS: 
 
1.1 THE MAPBOARD: The map board shows the area 
where the western desert campaign was actually fought.  It 
covers approximately 700 miles between El Agheila and El 
Alamein.  Map spellings are according to British War Office 
maps.  A hexagonal grid has been superimposed on the 
mapboard to determine movement.  Important features include: 
 
GRID COORDINATES: Black numbers printed along the 
south and east edges of the board are used to identify individual 
hexes.  The letters are read horizontally (east-west), the numbers 
diagonally from southwest to northeast.  When a number and 
letter are cross-indexed they pinpoint a certain location on the 
map.  Examples: Agheila is W6, El Alamein is L59, 
 
ESCARPMENT: Any hex containing brown splash 
contours (Example: G24 ): 
 
NOTE: Hex T29 is not a pass through the escarpment: 
 
 
QATTARA DEPRESSION: Any hex containing brown 
dots wholly OF partially within the brown lines of the area 
labeled QATTARA DEPRESSION.  (Example: R60). 
 
 
FORTRESS: Bengasi (H2), Tobruk (G25).  Alternate 
spellings: Benghazi, Tobruch. 
   
 
 
COASTROAD: Any hex containing a red line (Example: 
K61). 
 
 
GERMAN HOME BASE: Gray hex at W3, 
 
 
ALLIED HOME BASE: Gray hex at J62. 
 
 
1.2 UNIT COUNTERS: The die-cut, Order of Battle Unit 
Counters are the tokens whose movement and placement 
determine the course of play.  The Blue pieces are Allied; Red 
are Axis (a term referring to the German-Italian alliance).  
Hereafter they will be referred to simply as units.  Printed on 
each unit is information necessary for play of the game. 
 
1.21 There are five different unit sizes: 
Counter Symbol 
Unit Size 
XXX 
Army Group 
XX 
Division 
X 
Brigade 
III 
Regiment 
II 
Battalion 
 
1.22 The nationality of pieces can be determined as follows: 
Counter Nomenclature 
Description 
A 
Australian 
NZ 
New Zealand 
I 
Indian 
SA  
South African 
It 
Italian 
Unmarked Red 
German 
Unmarked Blue 
British 
 
1.23 The types of pieces are determined as follows: 
 
1.24 Identification is provided only for historical reference.  
It is not necessary for play of the game, and players not wishing 
to take the time to set up the game with the correct historical 
units can ignore this information and bring units into play solely 
on the basis of their combat and movement factors (see 2.2) 
 
1.25 The attack factor is the basic strength of the unit when 
attacking. 
 
1.26 The defense factor is the basic strength of the unit 
when defending. 
 
1.27 The movement factor is the maximum number of clear 
terrain hexes a unit may move into in one turn. 
 
1.3 RULEBOOK: The rulebook contains all rules, charts 
and tables necessary for play of the game. 
 
1.4 DIE: The six-sided die is used only to resolve combat 
and the arrival of Axis supplies; it has nothing to do with 
movement. 
 
1.5 TIME RECORD CARD: The Time Record Card is 
used to record the passage of turns and indicates the availability 
of reinforcements, replacements, and Allied substitute counters, 
as well as possible changes in Axis supply arrival status, and the 
approaching end of the game. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 2 of 13 
2. PREPARE FOR PLAY 
 
2.1 Lay the mapboard out on a long table.  The Axis player 
sits at the northern side; the Allied player at the southern side. 
 
2.2 Punch out the unit counters from their die-cut sheet and 
place the corresponding units on the Order of Appearance tables 
printed on the mapboard.  These units are the Reinforcements 
(19.1) which both sides receive at various intervals throughout 
the game. 
 
2.3 Place the units shown on the March 1941 Situation 
Chart on their respective listed positions on the mapboard.  
Stacking limits (6.1) can be ignored during this preliminary 
setup but must be adhered to at the conclusion of each player’s 
movement and also at the end of each player’s turn. 
 
2.4 Place the remaining four Axis and five Allied supply 
counters off the board in an accessible place where they can be 
brought into play as dictated by the course of the game.  The 
remaining counters are Allied substitute counters (21) which 
cannot enter play until August, 1942.  Put them aside for later 
use.  The blank red and blue counters are merely “spares” to 
replace potentially lost units.  You are now ready to begin play. 
MARCH 1941 SITUATION CHART 
 
3. SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
 
AFRIKA KORPS is played in turns.  The Axis player 
moves all of his units which he cares to move, and resolves any 
resulting battles.  That is his player turn.  The Allied player 
moves all of his units which he cares to move, and resolves any 
resulting battles.  That is his player turn.  Together these two 
player turns comprise a complete game turn and are measured as 
the passage of half a month of real time.  The exact sequence of 
play is outlined below. 
 
3.1 If the Axis player controls a port (4.3) at which he can 
bring in supply, and provided there are less than three Axis 
supply units (not including captured supply units) already on the 
board and in play), he rolls the die and consults the Supply Table 
(12.2) to determine whether he receives a supply unit that turn.  
If successful, he places it at the controlled port of his choice.  He 
then consults the Time Record Card.  If he is due additional units 
to enter play that turn he places them on board at a controlled 
port of his choice.  The Axis player then moves all of his units 
on board (including just arrived supply, reinforcement, and 
replacement units) which he chooses to move.  No Allied 
movement is allowed. 
 
3.2 All attacks caused by Axis movement are resolved one 
attack at a time in the order the Axis player wishes them to be 
resolved, subject to any other rules contained herein.  After each 
attack, the Axis player decides whether or not to execute 
movement after combat if applicable. 
 
3.3 Provided the Allied Player has less than four Allied (not 
counting captured supply units) supply units in the game 
already, the Allied player brings on a supply unit at any 
controlled port providing he is entitled to and wants it.  After 
consulting the Time Record Card he places any additional units 
he is due on board in a controlled port of his choice.  He then 
moves all his units on board which he chooses to move.  No 
Axis movement is allowed. 
 
3.4 All attacks caused by Allied movement are resolved one 
attack at a time in the order the Allied player wishes them to be 
resolved, subject to any other rules contained herein.  After each 
attack, the Allied player decides whether or not to execute 
movement after combat if applicable. 
 
3.5 The Allied player checks off one game turn on the Time 
Record Card and players repeat Steps 3.1 through 3.5 for the 
duration of the game. 
4. VICTORY CONDITIONS 
 
4.1 The Axis player wins if he has eliminated all Allied 
combat (not supply) units currently on the board, or controls 
both fortresses and both home bases simultaneously for two 
consecutive Axis player turns (at the beginning and end of each 
turn) by his last October, 1942 turn. 
 
4.2 The Allied player wins if he has eliminated all Axis 
combat (not supply or Rommel) units currently on the board, or 
controls both fortresses and both home bases simultaneously for 
two consecutive British player turns (at the beginning and end of 
each turn), or avoids the Axis victory conditions through the last 
October, 1942 turn. 
 
4.3 To control a fortress or a home base, the controlling side 
must occupy that hex.  Last possession of the hex is not 
sufficient to be considered “controlled”.  It must be occupied by 
a combat, supply, or Rommel unit.  To control a home base you 
must both garrison it as above and keep it out of enemy zones of 
control at the beginning and the end of each player turn, NOTE: 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 3 of 13 
a player may never use his opponent’s home base as a port, 
whether he controls it or not. 
5. MOVEMENT 
 
5.1 Barring special restrictions caused by enemy zones of 
control (ZOC) and restrictive terrain, you may move all, some or 
none of your units currently in play on every turn. 
 
5.2 On each turn, you may move each unit in any direction 
or combination of directions any number of open terrain hexes 
not exceeding its movement factor. 
 
5.3 You move all of your units you choose to move in your 
turn before resolving any battles, 
 
5.4 You may not move your units on top of or through 
opponent’s combat units or their ZOC (supply and Rommel units 
are not combat units), except during Automatic Victory (9.1) 
situations. 
 
5.5 Movement factors are not transferable from one unit to 
another nor can they be accumulated from one turn to the next. 
 
5.6 You may move units on partial Qattara Depression 
hexes (Example: Q60) as if they were clear terrain, but not on 
full Qattara Depression hexes (Example: R60).  T61 is 
considered a full Qattara hex. 
    
    
 
 
5.7 You may not move units directly from one hex to 
another across an all-water hexside (Example: E18 to F19), or 
Qattara Depression hexside (W62-X62) nor may units on these 
adjoining hexes engage each other in battle. 
      
 
 
5.8 You may not move units on partial hexes on the East or 
West ends of the mapboard (i.e. R68), nor are you allowed to 
move units on hexes for which there is no grid coordinate (i.e. 
there is no X70 nor is there a Y70 since neither 70 nor Y are grid 
coordinates).  Hexes 163, K64, M65, 066, Q67, S68, and U69 
are considered playable. 
6. STACKING 
 
6.1 Both players may stack up to three combat units in one 
hex.  Supply units and/or Rommel may be stacked by themselves 
or with combat units over and above the three-high limit. 
 
6.2 The movement factor of stacked units is that of the 
slowest unit in the stack.  Units may combine to form a stack at 
any point during a turn in which they can reach the same hex.  
Similarly, a stack may split up into its component parts at any 
point during the movement of the stack. 
 
6.3 Units may pass through hexes containing other friendly 
combat units even if those hexes are already stacked to the 
maximum.  Units must conform to stacking limits only at the 
end of movement and the end of each player turn. 
7. COMBAT 
 
7.1 Every combat unit has a Zone of Control (hereafter 
referred to as ZOC) which consists of the six hexes adjacent to 
the hex it occupies (Exceptions: E18-F19, W62-X62, and 
fortresses, etc.).  An overlapping friendly ZOC does not negate 
an enemy ZOC.  Combat units lose their ZOC if attacked at 7-1 
odds or 5-1 surrounded (see 9.1). 
 
7.2 A player automatically causes combat whenever he 
moves a combat unit into an enemy ZOC, The player moving his 
units is always the attacker; his opponent is always the defender. 
 
7.3 Battle odds are determined by expressing the attacker’s 
attack factor(s) as a ratio of attack factors to the defender’s 
defense factor(s).  Fractions are always rounded off in favor of 
the defender (7:2 becomes 3-1; 2:7 becomes 1-4). 
 
 
EXAMPLE 7.3: If the British 7th Armored Infantry (3-3-7) 
attacks the Italian Trenta Division (2-3-4) battle odds are 3-3 or 
1-1.  To resolve this battle the attacker rolls the die once.  The 
battle result is obtained from the Combat Results Table found on 
the back of this rulebook by cross-indexing the die roll with the 
proper odds column.   
 
7.4 Odds greater than 7-1 are treated as 7-1.  Odds less than 
1-6 are not allowed.  Any unit forced to attack at odds worse 
than 1-6 would be eliminated before any other battles are 
resolved without constituting a soak-off (11.6) or a ZOC for 
blocking potential retreat routes.  No unit may voluntarily attack 
at less than 1-6.  Any unit forced to attack in this position is 
eliminated before any other combat takes place. 
 
7.5 The results of combat are interpreted as follows: 
Result 
Description 
A Elim 
All attacking units in that attack are eliminated. 
A back 2 
All attacking combat units in that attack are 
retreated two hexes by the defender. 
Exchange 
The player with fewer combat factors actually 
involved in the combat (attack factors for the 
attacker, defense factors for the defender) must 
remove all his units in that battle.  The other 
player removes the number of involved units 
whose combined combat factors actually used in 
the battle total at least that of the units removed 
by his opponent.  In an exchange, the defender’s 
defense factors are computed at basic or double 
value according to terrain.  The attacker’s 
combat factors are never affected by terrain. 
D back 2 
All defending units in that attack are retreated 
two hexes by the attacker. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 4 of 13 
D Elim 
All defending units in that attack are eliminated. 
 
EXAMPLE 7.5: If a 2-3-4 unit which is doubled on defense 
is attacked by seven 1-1-6 units at 1:1 odds with a resulting 
“exchange” the 2-3-4 unit is lost along with six of the seven 1-1-
6 units.  If, on the other hand, a 3-4-6 unit is attacking four 1-1-
6s at 1-2 odds with a resulting “exchange”, the 3-4-6 unit is 
eliminated along with three of the four 1-1-6s. 
 
7.6 RETREATS: Retreats can be handled in a zigzag 
fashion so as to end the retreat only one hex away from the 
original hex occupied during the battle.  Retreat can be through 
friendly units already stacked to maximum and over all playable 
terrain including escarpments. 
 
7.61 Retreating units are eliminated instead if they are 
forced to retreat into or through enemy zones of control, out to 
sea, into the Qattara Depression, or off the playable hexes of the 
board.  Retreating units in excess of the stacking limit would be 
eliminated if forced to end their retreat on friendly units that 
would result in stacks exceeding the three-high combat unit 
limit.  The retreating player could not elect to eliminate another 
unit in the stationary stack so as to make room for a retreating 
unit, although he could choose which of the retreating units to 
eliminate should the hex retreated to be able to accommodate 
somewhat less than the full number of retreating units. 
 
7.62 The winner cannot force retreating units into blocking 
ZOC, or terrain which would result in their elimination if 
alternate, unblocked routes of retreat are available. 
 
7.63 If the Rommel unit is stacked with an attacking unit or 
units which must retreat as a result of combat, it does not retreat 
with the combat units because it is technically not a part of the 
attacking force.  However, in most cases the rules for placing 
Rommel with the closest Axis force when alone in an Allied 
ZOC (22.41) will have the same effect. 
8. ATTACKING 
 
8.1 A unit must stop as soon as it enters the first hex in an 
enemy ZOC (Exception: see Automatic Victory, 9 1). 
 
8.2 You may move as many units into an enemy ZOC as the 
stacking limits and board situation will allow before calculating 
battle odds and resolving combat. 
 
8.3 A unit is not allowed to move through an enemy ZOC 
(see Automatic Victory, 9.1 for exception), nor is it allowed to 
move from a hex in the ZOC of an enemy unit directly to 
another hex in the ZOC of that same enemy unit (Exception: see 
Advance After Combat, 16.2).  The unit would have to first 
move to a hex free of enemy ZOC before reentering the ZOC of 
the original enemy unit who’s ZOC it began the turn in.  It 
could, however, start its turn in an enemy ZOC and move 
directly to a hex in the ZOC of a different enemy unit providing 
the hex moved into is not also in the ZOC of the original enemy 
unit in whose ZOC it started its turn, 
 
8.4 You must resolve combat against every enemy combat 
unit into whose ZOC you have moved units.  Every combat unit 
in the ZOC of an enemy unit must attack some enemy unit. 
 
8.5 Each attacking unit in a particular attack must be 
adjacent to every defending unit which it is attacking in that 
attack. 
 
8.6 After concluding all movement for your player turn, you 
resolve all battles one at a time in any order you choose.  Any 
advance after combat or retreat possibilities resulting from each 
attack must be executed before resolving the next attack. 
 
8.7 A unit’s attack factor remains at its basic level in all 
situations regardless of the terrain it is attacking from or into. 
9. AUTOMATIC VICTORY 
 
9.1 Whenever enough attacking units are in attack position 
against a defending unit to create an automatic elimination 
situation (odds of 7-1, or 5-1 if the defender is surrounded by 
enemy ZOC or impassable terrain such that he could not survive 
a “back 2” result) that defending unit’s ZOC is immediately 
ignored for the remainder of the attacker’s turn.  Therefore, units 
not yet moved by the attacker may move through that defending 
unit’s adjacent hexes.  The attacker’s units may even move over 
the defending unit itself although they may not end their move 
directly on top of it.  However, that defending unit remains in 
play and is not removed until the attacker is ready to resolve his 
attacks. 
 
9.2 Attacking units must be able to trace a line no more than 
five hexes long which is free of enemy ZOC and impassable 
Qattara/water hexsides to a friendly supply unit at the instant 
they achieve automatic victory.  Although automatic victory 
(hereafter referred to as AV) takes place during the movement 
portion of a turn, the combat units involved in the AV may not 
make any further movement during that turn until after the battle 
portion of the turn, when they may advance if they meet the 
Advance After Combat (see 16.1) requirements. 
 
9.3 Units which serve to cut off retreat routes and thus 
participate in an AV (in a 7-1 or 5-1 surrounded attack) even 
though they may not be adjacent to the AV’ed unit, also may not 
make any further movement during that turn. 
 
9.4 Units which move through a negated ZOC by virtue of 
an earlier AV attack, may join in that AV attack. This means that 
units can move through a negated ZOC and then join in the AV 
attack against that AVed unit so as to be able to remain adjacent 
to other non-AVed enemy units without attacking, provided 
proper soak-offs are made.  However, units used to gain an AV 
cannot later have their “places taken” by other units moving 
through the negated ZOC and thus freeing the original AVing 
units to continue their move. 
 
9.5 A unit which must be eliminated before combat due to 
being trapped in enemy ZOC without benefit of supply cannot 
participate in an AV. 
 
9.6 Units making an AV attack must be in supply (14.2) at 
the time of that attack.  They cannot rely on the AV to open a 
route to a source of supply to sustain that AV attack. 
 
9.7 The supply used to Sustain an AV attack could 
conceivably move over the AVed unit and continue on to supply 
other attacks on the same turn but it must maintain its five hex 
supply line to the units which made the AV attack as well as any 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 5 of 13 
units involved in other attacks which it is supplying (Exception: 
See 14.5). 
 
 
EXAMPLE 9A: 21/5 has established an AV (7- 1) vs 7A/2.  
The German unit is within five hexes Of Supply fl.  The 21/5 
must remain in position for the rest of the turn, although the 
supply can move as shown to hex “A”, ignoring 7A/2’s ZOC 
and ending its movement still within five squares of 21/5. Note 
the reverse is not true: if supply #1 had started the turn at “A” it 
could not supply the AV from that hex, since the 7A/2’s ZOC is 
not ignored until after the supplied AV has taken place, 
 
 
EXAMPLE 9B: At the end of the Allied turn, 15/115 is 
isolated by ISA/l, 1/22 and 32.  The Axis player moves 21/104 
and Brescia into position for what appears to be an AV vs 
1SA/1.  However, it isn’t an AV because the 15/115 cannot 
make a 1-2 attack without supply vs 1/22 and 32, and thus would 
be eliminated before combat.  What the Axis player has is just a 
normal 5-1 vs 1SA/1.  The 15/115, unable to attack at 1-2 
without supply, must be eliminated prior to combat.  Note that 
15 /115 could have been saved had the Axis player been able to 
bring up enough force against 1SA/1 to get a 7-1 AV, thus 
opening a supply route to 15/ 115 which could then attack at 1-2 
or even move away without a fight through the hole left by the 
demise of 1SA/1. Note also that, somewhat paradoxically, 
15/115 could have been saved had the 32 Armor unit had a 
defense factor of 3.  15/115 could then have attacked at 1-3 
without supply, (see 14.3) and conceivably could have retreated 
through the hole left by the demise of 1SA/l. 
10. DEFENDING 
 
10.1 The defending player is not allowed to move any unit 
while his opponent is taking his turn, although his opponent can 
retreat his defeated defending units after combat (see 7.6) in the 
same manner that the defender can retreat defeated attacking 
units after combat. 
 
10.2 Any defending unit in a battle which occupies a 
fortress or escarpment hex has its defense factor doubled for 
purposes of calculating the odds of that battle and the amount of 
loss an attacker must suffer in an “exchange” result.  Such a 
unit’s defense factor remains doubled regardless of the terrain 
occupied by the attacker. 
11. MULTIPLE UNIT BATTLES 
 
11.1 When two or more units attack one defending unit the 
factors of the attacking units must be totaled into one combined 
attack factor. 
 
11.2 When one unit attacks two or more defending units the 
factors of the defending units must be totaled into one combined 
defense factor. 
 
11.3 When several units attack several defending units the 
attacker has the choice of dividing combat into more than one 
battle as long as the following conditions are met: 
 
11.31 The attacker must attack every defending unit in 
whose ZOC he has attacking units, and 
 
11.32 His attacking units must be in the ZOC of every 
defending unit he is attacking, and 
 
11.33 Each of the attacker’s units in an enemy ZOC must 
attack. 
 
11.4 The attacker may divide combat against stacked units 
on the same hex into more than one battle as long as he has more 
than one attacking unit. 
 
11.5 The attacker with stacked units on the same hex may 
divide combat into more than one battle against defending units 
on separate hexes. 
 
11.6 The attacker may deliberately sacrifice one or more 
attacking units at unfavorable odds in order to gain more 
favorable odds over other defending units.  This tactic is called 
soaking-off.  However, soak-off odds cannot be worse than 1-6.  
Any time an attacker finds his units trapped in enemy ZOC at 
odds worse then 1-6, he must either bring up enough units in 
support to bring odds down to 1-6 or eliminate it from the board 
before resolving any battles. 
 
11.7 The attack or defense factor of a unit cannot be split 
and applied to more than one battle, nor may any defending unit 
be attacked more than once in any turn. 
 
EXCEPTION: Should a unit be retreated into a fortress hex 
which will be attacked later in that same turn, that unit could 
undergo attack twice in the same turn.  In this case, however, the 
unit does not add its defense factor to that of the other defending 
unit(s) in the hex, although it must abide by the results of the 
attack.  If a D Elim is rolled, the unit is eliminated with the other 
defending unit(s).  If the result is DB2, the unit is again 
retreated.  The nonparticipating unit could not be used to satisfy 
exchange losses and is eliminated if all other defending units in 
the hex are lost. 
 
Should a unit be retreated into a fortress hex containing no 
other combat units it would be subject to automatic elimination 
if attacked at any odds during that player turn. 
 
The attacking player cannot dictate a retreat into a vacant 
fortress hex against the defender’s will if any other legal retreat 
route exists. 
 
11.8 No attacking unit may fight more than one battle per 
turn even if it finds itself in an enemy ZOC after combat has 
been resolved.  The defending unit in such a case must attack or 
withdraw in its turn or be eliminated.  If such a unit wishes to 
attack in its turn it may do so by holding its present position or 
by withdrawing from the enemy ZOC altogether and then re-
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 6 of 13 
entering into a different hex of the enemy unit’s ZOC providing 
it has any supply it may need to attack. 
 
11.9 If, at the end of the movement portion of its turn, an 
attacking unit is isolated while in an enemy ZOC it must be 
eliminated before the combat phase of the turn (Exception: 14.3, 
see the second example under 9.6). 
 
EXAMPLE 11A: In the above example blue may divide combat 
in two ways.  As shown by the gray circles he may resolve 
combat in two separate battles or in three separate battles as 
shown by the red circles, Notice that in dividing combat every 
red unit that is in a blue ZOC will be fought, Also notice that the 
Free French unit is not engaged since its ZOC does not fall on 
any red units. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 11B: In this example the red 2-2-12 soaks off 
against blue 2nd & 24th brigades at 1-3.  This gives Red’s 
remaining units odds of 5-1 over the remaining blue 2-2-6 unit.  
This tactic by red, forces surviving blue units to withdraw or 
counterattack at relatively unfavorable odds. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 11C: Soaking-off can be useful in forcing 
defending units to abandon an escarpment.  Here the red 2-2-7 
soaks-off against blue 4-4-7 at 2 to 8 (1-4).  Note that blue 4-4-
7’s defense factor doubles on defense.  The remaining red units 
attack blue 1-1-6 at 6 to 2 (3-1).  Blue, in his turn, must either 
counterattack or give up the escarpment position. 
 
EXAMPLE 11D: The result of a blue attack has left red with a 
forced soak-off situation in his turn.  At first glance it appears 
that red has blue NZ/2 surrounded, but a closer look finds that 
red 1-1-7 would have to soak-off at odds of 1-8 which is not 
allowed.  Therefore, if red does not bring up additional units to 
join the attack and bring the soak-off odds down to at least 1-6, 
then red 1-1-7 must be removed before resolving the 4-1 attack 
against blue 1-1-6. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 11E: All attacking blue units are within five 
hexes of a supply unit except blue 2-2-6, which has been left 
surrounded by red’s previous player turn.  In this event blue 2-2-
6 is automatically eliminated prior to combat resolution (see 
11.9), thus opening a retreat route for red 2-2-4 which is being 
attacked at 10-2 (5-1).  Note that red 2-2-4 would be AVed in a 
5-1 surrounded attack were it not for rule 11.9 which requires 
the elimination of blue 2-2-6 before any combat is resolved due 
to being in red ZOC without access to supply. Both blue supply 
units must be removed because neither is within five hexes (free 
of enemy ZOC) of all attacking units, 
12. AVAILABILITY OF SUPPLY 
 
12.1 The Allied player is due one supply unit per turn 
throughout the game providing he has control of a port at which 
to land the supply unit.  However, the Allied player may never 
have more than four of his own (not captured) supply units on 
board at any one time. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 7 of 13 
 
12.2 The Axis player is allowed to roll a die once per game 
turn on the SUPPLY TABLE in an attempt to secure a supply 
unit provided he controls a port in which to land the supply unit 
that turn.  Therefore the Axis player cannot roll for supplies on 
the first game turn because he doesn’t control a port.  The Axis 
player may never have more than three of his own supply units 
on board at any time. 
SUPPLY TABLE 
Die 
roll 
April 
1941-June 
1941 
July 1941-November 
1941 
December 
1941-
End of Game 
1 
Sunk 
Sunk 
Sunk 
2 
Sunk 
Sunk 
 
3 
 
Sunk 
 
4-6 
 
 
 
The Axis player receives a supply unless he rolls a “Sunk” result. 
 
12.3 There is no limit to the number of captured supply 
units which a player may have over and above the maximum 
number of his own supply units. 
 
12.4 If a player is unable to land his supply unit for a given 
turn in a controlled port (i.e.: Tobruch or his home base) at the 
start of the movement portion of his turn he forfeits that supply 
unit.  Supply units may not be accumulated off board.  They 
must land on their turn of arrival or be lost. 
 
12.5 A player does not have to accept supply.  He can 
decline the arrival of a supply unit if he so desires. 
13. MOVEMENT OF SUPPLY UNITS 
 
13.1 Initial placement on board in a controlled port does not 
count against the supply unit’s movement rate.  It can be moved 
and used to sustain attacks on the turn of its arrival, or any turn 
thereafter until used or destroyed. 
 
13.2 Supply units may move into an enemy ZOC only if 
they are being used to sustain attacks against that enemy unit in 
that turn. 
 
13.3 A supply unit cannot capture or move adjacent to 
(excepting the E18-F19, W62-X62 and fortress anomalies) 
opposing supply units (either during or at the end of the 
movement portion of the turn) unless it is accompanied by a 
combat unit.  However, a supply unit could move adjacent to, or 
even on top of the Rommel unit (22) if the Rommel unit were 
alone in a hex. 
14. SUSTAINING ATTACKS 
 
14.1 Units may never attack at odds of 1-2 or better without 
access to a supply unit.  Whenever a supply unit is used to 
sustain an attack, that supply unit is removed at the end of the 
current player turn. 
 
14.2 Units may attack at odds of 1-2 or better only if all 
attacking units involved in that attack are within five hexes of a 
friendly supply unit after movement.  The five hex route to the 
supply unit must be free of enemy ZOC and full Qattara 
Depression hexes (and cannot be traced across the E18-F 19, 
W62-X62 hexsides).  The five hex route is inclusive of the hex 
containing the supply unit, but exclusive of the hex containing 
the attacker.  The five hex supply route need not be maintained 
once combat is resolved: thus, retreating enemy combat units 
across the five hex supply route would have no effect on 
subsequent attacks being resolved during that same player turn. 
 
14.3 Attacks at odds of 1-3 or worse do not require supply.  
However, attacking units are not allowed to voluntarily attack at 
reduced odds so as to avoid the necessity of supply. 
 
14.4 One supply unit may sustain attacks for more than one 
attack in the same player turn, There is no limit to the number of 
attacks that can be sustained by the same supply unit as long as 
all the units which are attacking, at 1-2 or better odds are within 
the five hex radius of the supply unit described in 14.2.  Other 
supply units (whether within the five hex radius or not) do not 
have to be used and can remain on board for use in later turns. 
 
14.5 Supply units are required to sustain AV attacks both at 
the instant the AV is attained and at the end of the movement 
portion of the attacking player’s turn.  Note that it is possible 
that the supply unit sustaining an AV attack may move out of the 
five hex supply radius of that attack, providing another supply 
unit takes its place within the five hex supply radius at the end of 
the movement portion of the turn.  However, in this case both 
supplies would have to be used to sustain the AV attack. 
 
14.6 The attacking player must state before resolving each 
combat (including AV attacks) which supply is sustaining the 
attack. 
 
14.7 Supply is not necessary to defend; there is no change or 
reduction of a unit’s defense factor due to lack of supply. 
15. CAPTURE OF SUPPLY 
 
15.1 Supply units have no ZOC and all enemy combat units 
may move adjacent to or on top of a hex containing only supply 
units (and/or Rommel unit) without stopping or may even end 
their move in the same hex.  Opposing supply and/or Rommel 
units may not move adjacent to an opposing supply unit unless 
they are accompanied by a friendly combat unit. 
 
15.2 The situations in which supplies can be captured fall 
into two distinct categories: those in which the supply is stacked 
with a friendly combat unit, and those in which it is not.  The 
following rules pertain to the capture of supplies wherein the 
Supply unit is unaccompanied by friendly combat units. 
 
15.21 A supply unit is automatically captured whenever an 
enemy combat unit moves adjacent to it prior to combat 
(Exception: the E180-F19, W62-X62 anomalies) unless the 
supply unit is in a fortress (see 15.23).  The instant this occurs 
the supply unit is replaced with a captured supply unit of the 
opposing color in the same hex.  The removed supply unit is 
returned to the opponent for possible re-entry into the games at a 
later time under the normal Supply generation rules.  The 
captured supply unit can then be moved normally for the 
duration of the capturing player’s movement portion of his turn 
arid can also be used to sustain attacks as if it had started that 
player turn as a friendly supply unit in that hex.  Such a capture 
can occur during a combat unit’s move, after which that combat 
unit may continue its movement for the turn without penalty or 
delay. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 8 of 13 
 
15.211 The possible presence of enemy combat units 
adjacent to the unaccompanied enemy supply unit has no effect 
on the capture outlined above. 
 
15.212 Immediately after its capture, the captured supply 
unit is subject to all movement restrictions arid cannot move 
through hexes which previously were friendly, but are in enemy 
ZOC. 
 
15.22 Any retreating/advancing combat unit which finds 
itself adjacent (usual E18/F19, W62/X62 exceptions apply) to or 
on top of an enemy supply unit (unaccompanied by a combat 
unit during its retreat/advance automatically captures that supply 
unit (Exception: see 15.23). 
 
However, the captured supply unit can move no further 
during that player turn other than accompanying the capturing 
retreated combat unit for the duration of its retreat.  Should a 
supply which is currently being used to sustain an attack during 
that player turn be overrun by a retreating unit in this manner it 
is neither captured (because it is in the process of being used) 
nor prevented from sustaining other attacks during that player 
turn. 
 
15.23 A supply unit (unaccompanied by a combat unit) in a 
fortress can be captured by an adjacent combat unit only at the 
conclusion of the movement portion of the turn because the 
fortress protects the supply unit from the combat unit’s ZOC.  A 
retreating or moving combat unit could capture the supply unit 
only if it moved into the fortress on top of the supply unit.  In 
essence, for a supply unit alone in a fortress to be captured by an 
adjacent combat unit it must be “attacked”, and attacks can occur 
only during the combat portion of a turn not before or after it.  
Therefore, such a supply unit could not be moved immediately 
after capture, because the captor’s movement portion of the turn 
has been completed.  Note also that a supply unit 
(unaccompanied by a friendly combat unit) in a fortress would 
also be captured as part of the same attack in which an enemy 
combat unit attacks both the lone supply unit in the fortress and 
any other friendly combat units which are adjacent to the 
attacker unless all the attacking units were eliminated or 
retreated as a result of the combat. 
 
15.24 Supply is not necessary in order to “attack” an 
unaccompanied supply unit (nor is it necessary to attack a supply 
unit under any circumstances, although it is often necessary to 
attack 
accompanying 
combat 
units). 
 
Capture 
of 
an 
unaccompanied supply unit during movement is not considered a 
“battle” (even in the case of the fortress example cited in 15.1-
3).  Plus, the combat unit which captures the supply unit may 
also take part in battle against enemy combat units in that player 
turn. 
 
15.3 Capture of Supply units which are accompanied by 
friendly combat units in the same hex is governed by the 
following rules, 
 
15.31 If an AV can be attained against the accompanying 
combat unit(s), capture of the supply follows the procedure in 
15.21 with the exception that the attacker could not occupy the 
AVed unit’s actual hex (see 9.1), unless an Advance After 
Combat (16.2) situation was applicable. 
 
15.32 In all other cases, supply units accompanied friendly 
combat units can be captured only by carrying out normal 
attacks against the accompanying combat units.  This capture 
can take one of two forms: 
 
15.321 The supply unit is captured if all accompanying 
combat units are eliminated or retreated while at least one 
attacking combat unit remains adjacent to the supply or advances 
after combat (see 16.1) onto it.  Supply units cannot retreat.  The 
supply unit is neither captured nor eliminated if the battle result 
eliminates all attacking and defending combat units and the 
supply unit is not left in an enemy ZOC. 
 
15.322 The supply unit is captured if one adjacent enemy 
combat unit “attacks” the supply, while other attacking units 
attack the accompanying combat units at legal odds (1-6 or 
better).  The attacker may not use more than one attacking unit 
to capture the supply; all other units in the defender’s ZOC must 
attack the accompanying combat units.  NOTE: This method 
cannot be used if the defender is in a fortress hex.   
 
115.33 Supply units captured by the 15.32 method can be 
moved by the attacker their full movement capability, but they 
cannot be used to sustain other battles during that turn, 
 
15.34 Captured supply units may be moved out of the ZOC 
of previously accompanying friendly combat units by the new 
owner.  This is the only time that a unit can move through an 
enemy ZOC other than during Advance After Combat (16.2). 
 
 
EXAMPLE 15: The Allies have moved to capture Axis 
supply #2 by 2SA/4, while 32nd attacks 15/8 at 1-4.  This is a 
clever way to destroy Axis Supply without using an Allied 
supply and taking only a 50% chance of losing the 32nd.  Note 
2SA/4 cannot join in the attack against 15/8. In this case, the 
capture of the supply is considered a battle.  Now consider what 
would happen if the Allies could bring up the 1st Armor (another 
2-2-7) to the hex occupied by the 32nd.  The 1st Armor cannot 
join 2SA/4 in capturing the supply, since in a situation like this 
only one attacking unit may be used to capture the supply.  
However, the Allies would have a surrounded 1-2 vs 15/8 
(assuming the 1st & 32nd can be supplied by a separate supply 
unit; the captured supply cannot be used to sustain this attack) 
because 2SA/4 serves to block the 15/8’s retreat. 
 
15.4 A player may destroy his own supply or captured 
supply units at any time during his own player turn, including 
after combat is resolved, 
16. ADVANCE AFTER COMBAT 
 
16.1 Any time an attack removes all defending combat units 
from a fortress or escarpment hex, any and all (up to maximum 
stacking limits) surviving attacking units may move into the hex 
vacated by the defender.  Such advance must occur prior to the 
resolution of the next battle, if any. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 9 of 13 
 
16.2 Advance after combat is the only instance (other than 
15.34) in which a unit may move directly from the ZOC of an 
enemy unit into another ZOC of that same enemy unit. 
 
16.3 A unit attacking a supply unit in a fortress without 
accompanying combat units can nevertheless advance after 
combat into the fortress even though there was no defending 
combat unit involved. 
17.  COAST ROAD 
 
17.1 All units are allowed to move up to ten additional 
hexes per turn on the coast road above and beyond their normal 
movement factors.  Such movement may be combined with 
normal movement over other terrain in any manner desired. 
 
EXAMPLE: A 2-2-6 unit could move two hexes through 
clear terrain to a coast road, then move seven hexes along the 
coast road, then move four additional hexes across clear terrain 
(or coast road), before returning to the coast road for its last 
three hexes of movement along the coast road. 
 
17.2 Movement along the coast road must be through the 
specific hexsides bisected by the red coastal  road lines.  To 
qualify for the coastal road bonus the hex entered must be 
entered through a hex side crossed by the red coastal road 
symbol; otherwise movement into that hex is at the cost of the 
other terrain in that hex. 
 
17.3 Hex I26 contains two roads which do not intersect 
within the hex and therefore presents an exception to the normal 
rules. 
 
17.31 A unit which starts its turn in I26 can move along 
either road. 
 
17.32 A unit which starts its turn outside 126 and moves 
into the hex via the road could not transfer to the other road in 
that hex and move along it at no penalty.  It would either have to 
move outside the hex and back into it along the proper hexside 
(such as I26-J27-I26) or pay an additional movement factor for 
moving across the escarpment within the hex to get to the new 
road. Such expenditure would count as moving onto a road 
escarpment hex (see 18.5). 
18. ESCARPMENTS 
 
18.1 Any unit may move onto an escarpment hex at the 
normal cost of one movement factor, but may move no further 
during the movement portion of that player turn, 
 
18.2 Units may leave escarpment hexes at their normal 
movement rate. 
 
18.3 Units move through escarpment hexes at the rate of one 
hex per player turn.  The only way a unit could move through 
more than one escarpment hex in a player turn would be to 
advance (16, 1) or retreat (7.6) after combat. 
 
18.4 Units may move through escarpment hexes containing 
the coast road without stopping, using either normal movement 
factors or their coast road bonus as long as movement is made 
through hexsides bisected by the road. 
 
18.41 Units may move directly onto a coast road escarpment 
hex from a hexside not bisected by the road and then continue 
along the coast road without stopping.  However, they may not 
then leave a coast road escarpment hex from a hexside not 
bisected by the road. 
 
18.42 Units which enter a coast road escarpment hex from a 
hexside which is bisected by the road may later move off a coast 
road escarpment hex in any direction. 
 
18.5 In summary, rule 18.4 allows a unit to move either off 
or on a coast road escarpment hex from a hexside not bisected 
by the road without delay, but not to move both off and on in the 
same turn except as a result of retreat or advance after combat.  
See examples at bottom left. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 18: A unit beginning its turn at either G24 or 
124 could move directly onto H24 and then continue to H23, 
H25, or 125 and then onwards along the road with no delay, 
However, the unit could not move H24-H25-H26 since the direct 
move between H25 and H26 would be off the coast road 
escarpment through a hexside not intersected by the road, and in 
one turn a unit cannot move on (to H24) and off (to H26) a coast 
road escarpment in this way.  Note that an H24-125-126-J27-
127-128-H28-H29-130 move is legal, since entry to 130 is made 
from a coast road clear terrain hex (H29). 
 
A unit beginning its turn at G22 can move H23-H24-H25-
H26-H27, etc.  It entered the coast road escarpment (H23) from 
a hexside intersected by the road, thus the H25/H26 is the only 
time it used the non-road hexside move.   NOTE: Technically, 
the unit did move off H25 and the H26 from non-road hexsides, 
but the one hex distance is considered a single move. 
 
A unit beginning its’ turn in Tobruch may move H26-I27-
J27-J28 but it may move H26-I27-J28.  The H26/I27 is its legal 
non-road hexside move; the I27/I28 would be a second such 
move in the same turn, which is not allowed. 
19. REINFORCEMENTS 
 
19.1 Both players receive reinforcements at specific 
intervals.  Reinforcements are new units and have nothing to do 
with Replacements (see 20).  The Order of Appearance tables 
printed on the mapboard state the earliest time that 
reinforcements can be put into play.  These turns are noted in 
bold print on the Time Record Card as a reminder. 
 
19.2 Reinforcements may enter the game at Tobruch, their 
home base, or both provided they are controlled by friendly 
forces at the start of the player turn.  As is the case with the 
arrival of supply units there is no movement penalty for being 
placed on board in a controlled port.  They can be moved and 
used in battle on their turn of arrival. 
 
19.3 Unlike supply units, reinforcements do not have to land 
on the first turn they are available.  They can be left off-board 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 10 of 13 
for arrival during a later turn.  Such units are not considered at 
sea and are therefore not subject to the restrictions of units using 
normal sea movement, 
 
19.4 Arriving reinforcements may be stacked above the 
three-high limit during their initial placement on the board 
providing they do not exceed that stacking limit at the 
conclusion of the movement portion of the turn. 
 
19.5 Reinforcements (and supply) can be placed in Tobruch 
while under siege.  Adjacent units do not exert a ZOC over a 
fortress hex, and, therefore, do not prevent this. 
 
19.6 Reinforcements can enter play only during their own 
player turn, 
 
19.7 An opponent’s home base cannot be used as a source 
of reinforcements. 
 
19.8 Reinforcements which are not in play by the last 
October 1942 turn are eliminated. 
20. REPLACEMENTS 
 
20.1 Starting in March, 1942 both players are eligible to 
receive replacement units.  These units have nothing to do with 
reinforcements (19) and are taken only from those units already 
eliminated. 
 
20.2 The Axis player earns replacement units at the rate of 
one attack factor per turn for his home base and one attack factor 
per turn for Tobruch, providing he controls these hexes at the 
beginning of his player turn, for a maximum of two attack 
factors per turn. 
 
20.3 The Allied player receives two attack factors per turn 
for his home base and one attack factor per turn for Tobruch, 
provided he controls these hexes at the beginning of his player 
turn, for a maximum of three attack factors per turn. 
 
20.4 The rules for putting replacements into play are 
identical to those for reinforcements. 
 
20.5 Each side is allowed to accumulate replacement factors 
from turn to turn.  A special (un-shaded) column for each side is 
provided on the Time Record Card for this very purpose. 
 
20.6 Accumulated replacement factors are not lost even if 
an opponent gains temporary control of Tobruch and/or the 
home base. 
   
 
21. ALLIED SUBSTITUTE COUNTERS 
 
21.1 Starting in August, 1942 and all turns thereafter, the 
Allied player may exchange substitute counters for units 
presently on board totaling the same number of attack factors as 
that of the substitute counters.  Armor must be exchanged for 
armor and/or armored infantry; infantry must be exchanged for 
infantry and/or recce units. 
 
21.2 Substitution can occur only at the end of the Allied 
player’s movement portion of his player turn.  The Allied player 
is not allowed to move substitute units during the turn of 
placement (except as a result of combat; i.e.  advance or retreat), 
but he may use them to attack during their initial turn on the 
board.  Substitution can therefore occur in an enemy ZOC.  The 
only requirement is that all units involved in the substitution end 
the movement portion of their turn in the same hex. 
 
21.3 Substitution counters can be broken down into 
component smaller parts of the same type (see 21.1) in much the 
same manner they are formed at the end of the movement 
portion of their player turn, OR during combat resolution.  Thus, 
a 4-4-10 unit which must take a three factor loss due to an 
exchange result could be replaced by a 1-1-7 unit. 
 
21.4 A substitute counter which is breaking down into its 
component parts may not generate units whose combined attack 
factor is greater than that of the substitute unit, nor can it 
generate any unit whose movement factor is greater than that of 
the substitute unit unless that unit was used to create the 
substitute unit originally.  Therefore, should a recce unit be used 
to create a substitute unit special care should be taken to record 
the specific substitute unit which contains the recce unit. 
 
21.5 Units on board being converted to a substitute counter 
or a substitute counter being converted back to its component 
parts may not stack in such a way as to be above the three-high 
maximum combat unit limit either immediately before or after 
the substitution takes place. 
 
21.6 Substitution may not take place at sea, or off-board, nor 
may substitute units be brought onto the board as replacements. 
 
21.7 Only those units provided in the game specifically as 
substitute counters can be used as such.  For example, the British 
player could not use an eliminated 2-2-6 unit as a substitute 
counter for a pair of still functional 1-1-6 counters. 
 
22. ROMMEL HEADQUARTERS UNIT 
 
22.1 The Rommel unit provides any and all friendly units a 
two hex movement bonus provided it moves with that unit(s) for 
two hexes.  There is no numerical limit to the number of Axis 
units which the Rommel unit can help in this manner, but it can 
help each unit only once per turn. 
 
22.2 The Rommel unit does not count against stacking 
limits. 
 
22.3 The Rommel unit has no ZOC and cannot block enemy 
units in any manner, nor can it capture supply.  Enemy units can 
move directly on top of the Rommel unit if unaccompanied by 
Axis combat units. 
 
22.4 The Rommel unit cannot be attacked, captured or 
eliminated.  If placed in an enemy ZOC without benefit of an 
accompanying friendly combat unit in the same hex, the 
Rommel unit is merely placed with the closest Axis combat unit 
at that point in time.  If isolated without benefit of an 
accompanying friendly combat unit, it is likewise moved to the 
closest Axis combat unit.  If isolated with a friendly combat unit 
inside the same encirclement, Rommel must stay within the 
encirclement pending the elimination or relief of the combat 
unit. 
 
22.41 The Axis player may not purposefully move the 
Rommel unit into an Allied ZOC without benefit of 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 11 of 13 
accompanying friendly combat unit in the same hex unless there 
is no alternative move or non-move. 
 
22.42 In determining “the closest Axis combat unit” in 22.4 
the Axis player may not count hexes which can’t be traversed 
normally or which are in Allied ZOC unless there is no other 
way to place Rommel with an Axis unit.  If two Axis combat 
units are still equidistant from Rommel, the Axis player may 
choose which of the two he wishes to place Rommel with. 
 
22.5 Rommel may be used to control ports, but does not 
count as a unit to be eliminated for Allied victory conditions. 
23. FORTRESSES & SEA MOVEMENT 
 
23.1 Opposing units may move adjacent to enemy combat 
units in Bengasi and Tobruch without attacking, although they 
have the option to do so.  If units attack into a fortress, they must 
attack all units in the fortress, but not all units adjacent to the 
fortress necessarily have to attack. 
 
23.2 Units in fortresses do not have to attack adjacent 
enemy combat units, although they have option to do so.  If units 
in a fortress attack, they must attack all adjacent enemy units. 
However, all units in the fortress are not required to take part in 
an attack.   
 
23.3 Sea movement in and out of Bengasi is not allowed. 
 
23.4 Sea movement between Tobruch and each side’s 
respective controlled home base is allowed, Sea movement is 
conducted by moving the units involved to Tobruch or their 
home base and then off the board.  In the following friendly 
player turn those units may be placed on Tobruch or the home 
base and moved inland. 
 
23.41 Units may move in and out of Tobruch by sea even 
when enemy units are adjacent.  A unit may not move both into 
and out of Tobruch by sea during the same player turn. 
 
23.42 Units cannot remain at sea indefinitely.  They must 
return to a port on the turn following initial removal from the 
board or they are eliminated.  A unit which lands at a port may 
not move out to sea again in the same turn. 
 
23.43 Units can return to the same port they embarked from 
on the previous game turn.  They need not move to another port. 
 
23.44 To use sea movement into a port, you must control 
the port at the beginning of your turn.  However, you may move 
out of a port without controlling it at the beginning of your 
player turn, provided it is not in an enemy ZOC at the time of 
embarkation. 
 
23.5 Transfer between Tobruch and the enemy home base 
are not allowed. 
 
23.6 Units in a fortress which are surrounded by a 
combination of enemy ZOC and the sea are subject to isolation 
(see 24) unless they have a supply unit present. 
 
23.7 Units in a fortress which are surrounded by a 
combination of enemy ZOC and the sea may not retreat.  Such 
units would be eliminated if they suffered a “back 2” result on 
the Combat Results Table. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 23: In the diagram above, neither side is 
required to attack, However, red 4-5-6 and 2-2-12 units attack 
blue 1-1-6 at 6 to 2 (3-1) with blue’s defense factor doubled.  
Red 1-1-7 must soak-off against blue 3-3-7, doing so at 1-6.  In 
the 3-1 attack, a die roll of ‘3’ calls for blue M6’s retreat, but 
since involuntary movement out to sea is not allowed, blue 1-1-6 
is eliminated instead.  Red 1-1-7 is eliminated in the soak-off 
attack.  In this instance, the blue supply unit cannot be captured 
(15.322). 
 
In the diagram below, it is now blue’s move so he decides to 
move his supply unit off the board voluntarily to preclude 
capture in the event of a successful red attack against blue 3-3-7 
on the next turn.  However, to prevent blue 3-3-7s elimination 
due to isolation, a supply unit will have to be brought back into 
the fortress on the second blue turn of isolation. 
 
24. ISOLATION 
 
24.1 A combat unit becomes isolated when it is unable to 
trace a line of hexes free of enemy ZOC, the sea, Qattara 
Depression, board edge, or unplayable hexsides to a friendly 
supply unit.  It makes no difference how extended or curved the 
supply line is or how far away the supply unit. 
 
24.2 Any unit that is isolated for two consecutive friendly 
player turns, both at the beginning, and at the end of the player 
turn is automatically eliminated.  Therefore, an isolated unit 
which advances into attack position and thereby momentarily 
breaks isolation before being retreated back into isolation has not 
broken isolation because it is still isolated at the beginning and 
end of the player’s turn. 
 
24.3 Units which land at a port are considered to be in the 
same supply status as the port in which they are brought onto the 
board.  Such units entering a port which cannot trace a line of 
supply to a friendly supply unit share the supply status of any 
units already there, whether it is the first or second turn of 
isolation. 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 12 of 13 
 
24.4 Supply lines cannot be traced from one port to another, 
or through the sea in any manner.  However, combat units which 
end their turn at sea with a supply unit also at sea are considered 
supplied, even if the combat unit and the supply unit put out to 
sea from different ports.  Combat units at sea without a supply 
unit also at sea are considered isolated.  Therefore, if a unit is in 
its second turn of isolation on the board and then moves out to 
sea without a supply unit also at sea, it is eliminated. 
 
24.5 Any player without supply units on board at the start 
and end of two consecutive friendly player turns loses all units 
currently on board, and, consequently, the game. 
 
 
EXAMPLE 24: 15/33 begins Its turn on hex “A” isolated 
by the four South African infantry brigades, and moves as shown 
by the red line to attack 1SA/3 at 2-1 (supplied by Axis supply 
#1).  The battle results in an A back 2, with 15/33 retreated along 
the black line to hex “B”, thus ending its’ turn still very much in 
isolation.  Since 15/33 was isolated both at the beginning and the 
end of its turn it is considered isolated for the entire turn even 
though it used a supply unit to sustain its attack. 
25.0 THIRD EDITION 
 
These rules are the third edition (copyright 1980) and 
supersede all earlier versions.  Players are urged to confer as to 
the exact edition of the rules they are using prior to the start of 
any game (especially those played by mail) so as to avoid 
misunderstandings later. 
26.0 DESIGN CREDITS 
26.1 ORIGINAL THE AVALON HILL GAME COMPANY CREDITS 
Original Research & Design 
Charles Roberts  
Original Development 
Thomas N.  Shaw 
Third Edition Rewrite 
Donald Greenwood  
Rulebook Cover Art 
Rodger MacGowan 
Playtesting 
Frank Preissle, Bruno Sinigaglio, Dale 
Garbutt, Alan R.  Moon, Donald 
Burdick 
Typesetting 
Colonial Composition 
Printing 
Monarch Services, Inc. 
26.2 WARGAME ACADEMY AMPLFIED 3TH EDITION RULEBOOK 
Project Manager 
Bill Thomson (WGA) 
ComSimWorld interface 
 
Graphics & Diagrams 
Jeff Wise; Bill Thomson (WGA) 
Proofreading 
James Cohen 
AFK Subject Matter Experts 
Bruno Sinigaglio & Greg Smith 
26.3 AFK VASSAL MODULE 
Vassal Engine Creation:  
Rodney Kinney 
Original Configuration & 
Trustees: 
WGA VASSAL Team (Brent Easton, Jeff 
Wise, Bill Thomson). 
Enhanced Map 
Jeff Wise 
Errata Compilation 
WebGrognards & WGA GENERAL 
archive 
27.0 ERRATA AND QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
28.0 ARTICLE INDEX 
FIRE & MOVEMENT MAGAZINE 
1. 
F&M #10; Foxes in the Desert: A Game Survey of the Desert War: 
Warren G. Williams (Review)  
2. 
F&M #60; World War II Anthology: Chapter 1: The Mediterranean 
Theater: Vance von Borries (Review)  
GENERAL MAGAZINE 
1. 
General Vol.1, #1; Can the British Really Win in Afrika Korps  
2. 
General Vol.1, #1; Contest #1  
3. 
General Vol.1, #1; Afrika Korps: Sea Movement  
4. 
General Vol.1, #2; You're Not Reading the Rules  
5. 
General Vol.1, #2; Afrika Korps - Rules Supplement  
6. 
General Vol.1, #2; Play Balance for Afrika Korps: Victor Madeja  
7. 
General Vol.1, #3; Sink Some African Sands: Victor Madeja  
8. 
General Vol.1, #3; Absurdity of Afrika Korps: Jon Perica  
9. 
General Vol.1, #4; Afrika Korps - Tactics of Isolation: Carl Knabe  
10. General Vol.1, #5; Afrika [sic] Korps – Replayed  
11. General Vol.1, #6; A Critique - Afrika Korps Replayed  
12. General Vol.1, #6; 9 December 1940: Albert Nofi  
13. General Vol.1, #6; Play-by-Mail Table for Afrika Korps  
14. General Vol.2, #1; Tactics and Strategy: David Whiskeyman  
15. General Vol.2, #2; Tactics on Afrika Korps: John Finch  
16. General Vol.2, #4; A New German Approach to Afrika Korps: Jared 
Johnson  
17. General Vol.2, #6; Basic German Strategy in Afrika Korps: James 
Tribolet  
18. General Vol.3, #1; Basic Allied Strategy in Afrika Korps: Frank 
Russell  
19. General Vol.3, #1; Raiding Rommel: Jim Epperson  
20. General Vol.3, #3; Rommel Rides Again: Allen Wood  
21. General Vol.3, #4; Across the Sands: Bill Stone  
22. General Vol.3, #4; Operation Oasis: Chris Meagher  
23. General Vol.3, #6; Major Battles and Campaigns;Libya and Egypt, 
1940-42: James Tribolet  
24. General Vol.4, #1; Rommel's Thrust – 1941: Doug Cragoe  
25. General Vol.4, #2; German Strategy in Afrika Korps: Mark Rosenberg  
26. General Vol.4, #5; Afrika Korps and the Attrition Table: Brooke 
Duvall  
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
AFRIKA KORPS; Wargame Academy Amplified Third Edition Rulebook 
Page 13 of 13 
AFK; Revised and reformatted by Wargame Academy for internal use only 
www.wargameacademy.org 
27. General Vol.5, #4; Best Allied Defense - an Aggressive German: Lee 
Mathews  
28. General Vol.5, #5; The Real Afrika Korps: Robert Olson  
29. General Vol.5, #6; The Road to Alexandria: Daniel Lee  
30. General Vol.5, #6; Brains vs Brawn: William Searight  
31. General Vol.5, #6; All or Nothing? Hardly: Bill Quinn  
32. General Vol.7, #4; D.A.K: William Searight  
33. General Vol.8, #2; Contest #44  
34. General Vol.8, #3; Afrika Korps Thesis: Tom Hazlett  
35. General Vol.9, #1; Tobruch: William Searight  
36. General Vol.9, #4; A Southern Strategy: Larry Baggett  
37. General Vol.9, #5; Contest #53  
38. General Vol.10, #4; Operation Crusader: Robert Garbisch  
39. General Vol.10, #5; Contest #59; Series Replay: Afrika Korps  
40. General Vol.11, #3; Contest #62  
41. General Vol.11, #5; A Decade With Das Afrika Korps: O.DeWitt  
42. General Vol.12, #4; Series Replay: Afrika Korps: T.Hazlett, B.Libby, 
Burdick  
43. General Vol.12, #5; The Paleveda Gambit: A New British Gambit For 
Afrika Korps: J.Lockwood  
44. General Vol.13, #5; Series Replay: Afrika Korps: T.Hazlett, R.Beyma, 
D.Burdick (Replay)  
45. General Vol.14, #1; Competitional Afrika Korps: Dave Roberts  
46. General Vol.15, #5; Another Afrika Korps Gambit, Strategy: 15, 
Stephen S. Packwood  
47. General Vol.16, #2; K.O. in Round Five..., Strategy, 22, Or Give Up 
the Home Base? Never, Never, Never!: Frank Preissle  
48. General Vol.17, #3; Afrika Korps Theory - A Tournament Player's 
View of AFRIKA KORPS: J.Lockwood  
49. General Vol.18, #1; Face Lift for a Classic Beauty, Analysis, 27, A 
Tour of a Revised Afrika Korps Rules: Frank Preissle  
50. General Vol.18, #2; Desert Deception, Variant, 12, A Hidden 
Movement Variant for Afrika Korps: Richard Gutenkunst  
51. General Vol.18, #3; Operation Torchlighter, Strategy, 22, The End 
Game in Afrika Korps: Frank Preissle  
52. General Vol.18, #4; Back To Basics, Strategy, 42, Basic German 
Alternatives in Afrika Korps: Robert Beyma  
53. General Vol.22, #1; Operation Compass, Variant, 35, A Variant for 
Afrika Korps: Arnold Blumburg  
54. General Vol.25, #3; Upgunning an Old Warrior, Variant, 21, Afrika 
Korps For Everybody: Rich Gutenkunst  
55. QUESTION BOX; 6-6; 7-3; 7-4; 9-6; 10-2; 11-6; 12-1; 22-2  
JAGDPANTHER MAGAZINE 
1. 
Jagdpanther #7; The Rommel Fantasy (Variant)  
2. 
Jagdpanther #7; KG’s in AKorps: Jim Brown  
MOVES MAGAZINE 
1. 
Moves #5; Realistic Afrika Korps: (Variant)  
OUTPOST MAGAZINE 
1. 
Hardcore Afrika Korps: (Variant)  
2. 
Realistic Afrika Korps: (Variant) (same as Moves article – see above)  
PANZERFAUST MAGAZINE 
1. 
Issue unknown; Shortcomings of AK: Chuck Lane (Critique)  
2. 
Issue unknown; Afrika Korpse: Tom Hazlett  
3. 
Issue unknown; The Afrika Korps Thesis: Tom Hazlett  
4. 
Panzerfaust #44; Afrika Korps II: Chuck Lane (Variant)  
5. 
Panzerfaust #47; Afrika Korps II, Part 2: Chuck Lane (Variant)  
6. 
Panzerfaust #54; Prelude to Afrika Korps: Robert W. Garbisch 
(Historical)  
7. 
Panzerfaust #54; Simulating the Desert War: Confessions of a 
Frustrated War Gamer: J. E. Pournelle (Analysis/Historical)  
PANZERSCHRECK MAGAZINE 
1. 
Panzerschreck #1; Short Takes: End Game Scenario for Afrika Korps: 
B. Shatner (Variant)  
SPARTAN SIMULATION GAMING JOURNAL 
1. 
Issue #4?; The Tobruch Dilemma: Harley Anton  
2. 
Issue #4; Montgomery's Maulers: Strategy for Afrika Korps: H. Anton 
(Strategy)\  
3. 
Issue #4; Gazala 1942 (Variant)\  
4. 
Issue #4; SICL Championships: Game replays of Afrika Korps 
(Replay)\  
5. 
Issue #10; Review: Afrika Korps (Review)  
STRATEGY & TACTICS MAGAZINE 
1. 
S&T #2; AHIKS on AK: (Variant from KOMMANDEUR magazine)  
2. 
S&T #10; Afrika Korps (Modified): John Schaefer (Variant)  
3. 
S&T #17; Afrika Korps in HO: E.Mohrmann  
4. 
S&T #23; Campaign Analysis: North Africa 1940-42, Part III: Afrika 
Korps: A.Nofi  
5. 
S&T #23;; GAGE Review (Afrika Korps): Jim & John Flanagan  
6. 
S&T #40; PanzerArmee Afrika and the War in the Desert, June 1940-
December 1942: Albert A. Nofi (Historical)  
STRATEGY & TACTICS SUPPLEMENT 
1. 
S&T Supp #11; Campaign Analysis ... North Africa 1940-42; the 
British Army; a British soldier comments (LTC Henry A. Radice)  
WARGAMER MAGAZINE 
1. 
Wargamer Vol.1 #3; De-Briefing: Afrika Korps; J. Hind (Review)\  
2. 
Wargamer Vol.1 #3; Functional Unit Differences in AK  
Magazines and issues unknown for the following: 
1. 
German Strategy for Afrika Korps: Tom Ryan  
2. 
British Defense in Afrika Korps: Tim Tilson  
3. 
Africa 1940-42: Bruce Gletty (Variant) 
29.0 TOURNAMENT ARCHIVE 
• 
AFRIKA KORPS is an active Face to Fact tournament 
at the annual World Boardgame Championships 
(successor to Avaloncon) by the Boardgamer Player 
Association [http://www.boardgamers.org].  WBC is 
held in Lancaster, PA; end of July/early August. 
• 
BPA also administers a repeating AFRIKA KORPS 
Play 
by 
Email 
Tournament. 
[http://www.bpaclassics.org/afrika_korps.htm] 
• 
AFRIKA KORPS is an active Face to Fact tournament 
at the annual Prezcon Winter Nationals event; 
Charlottesville, VA; Mid February. 
