1
8
0
5
 
-
 
1
8
1
5
A
S T R A T E G I C
B O A R D G A M E
B Y R E N A U D V E R L A Q U E
R E V I S E D E D I T I O N
2
CONTENTS
1.0
Introduction
2.0
Components
3.0
Diplomatic Situation
4.0
Military Organization
5.0
General Course of Play
6.0
Game Objectives
7.0
Diplomacy Phase
8.0
Insurrection Phase
9.0
Strategy Phase
10.0
Reinforcement Phase
11.0
Campaign Phase – General
12.0
Campaign Phase – Movement
13.0
Campaign Phase – Battle
14.0
Surrender Phase
15.0
Winter Attrition Phase
16.0
Victory Check Phase
1.0 INTRODUCTION
Age of Napoleon 1805-1815 is a two-player game that is
based on the rise and fall of one of the greatest military
commanders in history: Napoleon I, Emperor of the
French. The goal of the French player is to achieve
domination of the European continent, while the goal of the
Coalition player is to force Napoleon’s abdication once and
for all.
The game contains three different scenarios, starting in 1805
(the main scenario), 1809, and 1813. Players familiar with the
game are able to finish the 1813 scenario in 45 to 60 minutes.
2.0 COMPONENTS
Each copy of Age of Napoleon 1805-1815 contains:
• 1 gameboard
• 1 rules booklet
• 55 playing cards
• 1 scenarios booklet
• 162 game pieces
• 2 dice
• 2 player aid cards
If any of these parts are missing or damaged, we 
apologize for the inconvenience and ask that you contact us
to receive any redistribution parts needed. Please notify:
Phalanx Games b.v.
Attn.: Customer Service
P.O. Box 60230
NL – 1230 AG Almere
Email: customerservice@phalanxgames.nl
2.1 The Gameboard
The gameboard is a simplified representation of Europe at
the beginning of the 19th century. Each area is named after a
region of Europe, which usually is the aggregation of several
historical regions. Most area names are in their native
language, while others are in English (see 3.1).
2.1.1 Map Terms
2.1.1.1 Two areas are “adjacent” if they share a common
border; for instance Bohmen and Banat are adjacent.
2.1.1.2 For the purpose of sea reinforcements (see 10.4),
movement (see 12.4), or retreats (see 13.4.2), a “coastal” area
is an area bordering an ocean or sea other than the Black
Sea. Please also note that Westfalen is not a coastal area.
2.1.1.3 A “capital” area is an area containing the capital of a
major country as indicated by the presence of that country’s
flag.
2.1.1.4 “Marsh,” “mountain” and “barren” areas are
specifically marked on the gameboard. Icons are used for
mountain and marsh areas, while the names of barren areas
are written in white characters (i.e., all Spanish areas except
Cataluña; Westgalizien; Ostgalizien; Transylvanien; Ungarn;
Grenzregion; OstPreußen; Polen; Sverige; and all Russian
areas). Note that any lake shown on the map is to be ignored
for gameplay.
2.1.1.5 A “home” area is an area of the same nationality as a
corps (see 2.2.1) being considered.
Examples: All French areas are home areas to French
corps other than those supplied by French minor allies and
dominions. Bayern is a home area to both the Lefebvre and
Wrede corps which are made available to France and
Österreich, respectively, when controlling Bayern.
2.1.2 Additional Gameboard Features
The gameboard includes the Prisoners Box (where
temporary corps losses are kept until the next reinforcement
phase); the Battle Box (where corps engaged in battle are
lined up); and the Battle Losses Box (where corps lost in
battle are placed while the battle is being resolved).
The gameboard also includes a game turn record track, a
campaign round record track, and holding boxes for the
Radetzky, Britannia and Stein markers.
Capital Area
Barren Area
Mountain Area
3
2.2 The Game Pieces
2.2.1 Corps Playing Pieces
2.2.1.1 The basic military unit in Age of Napoleon 1805-
1815 is called a “corps” and represents a senior Napoleonic
commander, his staff, and about 40,000 troops.
Design Note: While some countries did not even have a corps
structure in place, the term “corps” is used here out of convenience.
2.2.1.2 Corps are color-coded as follows: white for the
Austrians and their lone minor ally (Bayern); red for the
British and their four minor allies; blue for the French and
their ten minor allies; black for the Prussians and their lone
minor ally (Sachsen); green for the Russians and their lone
minor ally (Sverige); and yellow for the Spaniards.
2.2.1.3 Each corps has a “fresh” (front) side and a “spent”
(back) side, with the latter being marked by a horizontal
stripe of a different color and the numbers in red. Corps
become spent as a result of march attrition and combat.
2.2.1.4 In addition to the name of its commander and its
country of origin, each corps has three ratings. From left to
right these are:
Battle rating (a value from 1 to 8), which measures the
combat worthiness of the commander and his troops.
Movement rating (a value from 1 to 4), which determines
the movement allowance of the corps.
Seniority rating (a value from 1 to 8), which indicates how
many corps, including his own, the commander can lead
when assigned to army leadership.
2.2.1.5 All corps that are not on the gameboard but are
available are said to be in the “reserve.” Pieces in the reserve
are kept on the table near the gameboard.
2.2.1.6 Several corps have a special availability rule, denoted
by the presence of a key word in the top right hand corner
of the playing piece, which must be checked whenever they
are to be deployed.
2.2.1.7 A “minor allied” corps is a corps in the color of a
major country, but labeled with a minor country’s name.
Such a corps is available to a player only when he controls
both the relevant major country and the minor country. If a
player loses control of either, the minor allied corps must
immediately be removed from the map.
Example: Charles-John is normally available to the player
controlling both Russia and Sverige. If that player loses
control of either Russia or Sverige, Charles-John must be
removed from the map. As an aside, note that Charles-John
and Bernadotte can co-exist on the map, even though
historically they are one and the same.
2.2.1.8 All other corps require a certain triggering event in
order to become available, as follows:
• All five Austrian “Radetzky” corps become available—
meaning they are placed in the reserve, not deployed—
immediately after the Radetzky card has been played.
• All six Prussian “Stein” corps become available
immediately after the Stein card has been played.
• All four Spanish “Insurrection” corps become available
upon Spain becoming an insurgent country (see 8.2).
• All nine Russian “Invasion” corps become available all at
once only after Russia has been invaded by at least one
enemy corps. However, even if Russia has not yet been
invaded, one “Invasion” corps of the owning player’s
choice becomes available every time Russia permanently
loses one corps to march attrition, battle or winter
attrition.
2.2.2 Alignment Markers
Alignment markers are used to keep track of the diplomatic
alignment of all countries (see 3.2). In the case of a major
country, the marker must be placed in its capital area only.
Movement
Rating
Seniority
Rating
Battle
Rating
French
Dominion
Neutral
Country
French
Ally
Coalition 
Member
Insurgent
Country
4
2.2.3 Radetzky, Britannia and Stein Markers
Once the Radetzky, Britannia or Stein events are in effect, put
the respective markers in the boxes on the gameboard as a
reminder. These markers do not have any other function.
2.2.4 Game Turn and Campaign Round Markers
The game turn marker helps keep track of
the yearly game turn, from 1805 to 1815.
The campaign round marker helps keep
track of the campaign round (see 11.1).
2.3 The Playing Cards
2.3.1 The game includes a deck of 55 playing cards that is
used by both players. Each card tells a player in which
phase(s) it may be played as an event and lists its effect(s).
2.3.2 Most of the card texts should be self-explanatory, but
see 20.0 where some of the more “complex” cards have
examples and/or notes.
2.3.3 Instead of being played for their events, cards can also
be used to rally spent armies (see 10.5), move armies (see
12.0) or intercept with armies (see 12.6).
2.3.4 All uses are mutually exclusive and all cards must be
discarded after being used.
2.3.5 A player may play any number of cards in any of the
phases as long as they are played in the appropriate phase(s).
2.3.6 Play order as specified for the phase is usually
irrelevant when it comes to playing cards, with major
exceptions being the Diplomacy Phase and Battle
Resolution.
2.3.7 If there is any need to know who played a card for
event first, the French player has priority (i.e., chooses who
played first) in 1805-1810 and the Coalition player has
priority in 1811-1815.
2.3.8 Unless specifically prohibited, any card can be played
by either side. If the text of a card says that both players may
do something, only the player who is actually playing the
card must follow its instructions.
Example: The French player plays the Talleyrand card.
Only he may follow its instructions (i.e., convert one
Coalition member into a neutral country or convert one
neutral country into a French ally); the Coalition player may
do nothing.
2.3.9 No card is ever removed from the game after it is
played; it is always and immediately placed face up in the
discard pile after being shown to the opponent.
2.3.10 Note that some cards may be played only once as
events, as specified by their text.
2.3.11 Players can look through the discard pile at will.
2.3.12 Special Rule: Whenever Britannia, Continental System,
Napoleonic Dynasty, Radetzky, Stein or Territorial Concessions is
discarded by a player, it can be immediately picked up by the
other player on the condition that the latter discards one card
from his hand. All such cards are identified with a red title.
2.3.13 Special Rule: Britannia, a card that allows the
Coalition to move by sea and is critical to moving British
corps out of Britain, immediately comes into effect if
neither Österreich nor Preußen nor Russia is a Coalition
member.
2.4 The Player Aid Cards
Age of Napoleon 1805-1815 includes two Player Aid Cards.
They list the most important charts and tables and should be
kept handy by the players.
Note that the Ref(ormed) Preußen and Österreich numbers
on the various tables apply only once Stein and Radetzky,
respectively, are in effect.
2.5 The Scenarios and More Booklet
The Scenarios and More Booklet includes the set-up for
three scenarios, optional rules, parts of a sample game of
Age of Napoleon 1805-1815, a manifest of the playing
cards, and design notes.
2.6 The Dice
The game contains two dice, one for each player.
Several game functions are resolved by rolling a die.
2.7 Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used throughout the rules:
BR
Battle Rating
MR
Movement Rating
CM Coalition Member
NC
Neutral Country
FA
French Ally
SR
Seniority Rating
FD
French Dominion
TBM Tie Breaker Modifier
IC
Insurgent Country
Britannia
Stein
Radetzky
5
3.0 DIPLOMATIC SITUATION
3.1 Europe in the Age of Napoleon
3.1.1 Major Countries
There are six major countries in Age of Napoleon 1805-
1815: Britain, France, Österreich (Austria), Preußen (Prussia),
Russia and Spain.
Each major country, with the exception of Britain,
comprises 6 or more areas.
3.1.2 Minor Countries
There are 13 minor countries in 1805: Bayern (Bavaria),
Danmark (Denmark), Italia (Italy), Hannover, Holland,
Napoli (Naples), Lo stato della Chiesa (Papal States),
Pommern (Pommerania), Portugal, Sverige (Sweden),
Schweiz (Switzerland)., Westfalen (Westphalia) and
Württemberg.
Each minor country comprises one area only.
3.1.3 Detachable Areas
3.1.3.1 In the 1805 set-up, Tirol (Tyrol) and Dalmatien
(Dalmatia) are part of Austria, while Polen (Poland/Grand
Duchy of Warsaw) and Sachsen (Saxony) are part of
Preußen. These four areas may be detached and turned into
minor countries with the status of French dominions 
(see 3.7) when the French player plays the Territorial
Concessions card.
Design Note: Historically, Sachsen was not part of Preußen, only
under its influence; but it was simpler to make Sachsen a detachable
area of Preußen. It is also for simplicity’s sake that Polen is
comprised of one detachable Prussian area only instead of including
Westgalizien.
3.1.3.2 A detached area is usually returned to its original
ruler—i.e., Tirol or Dalmatien to Österreich; Polen or
Sachsen to Preußen–when re-conquered (see 14.1).
3.1.3.3 While detached, Tirol always becomes insurgent 
(see 3.4) whenever Österreich becomes a Coalition member
(see 3.3) or an insurgent country itself.
3.2 Diplomatic Alignment – General
3.2.1 Diplomatic alignment, not occupation by military
forces, indicates which player controls (or not) each country.
3.2.2 There are five types of diplomatic alignments:
• Coalition member (Coalition control)
• Insurgent country (limited Coalition control)
• Neutral country (uncontrolled)
• French ally (French control)
• French dominion (French control)
3.2.3 There are several ways to change a country’s diplomatic
alignment. The most common are summarized here:
3.2.3.1 Diplomatic Action (see 7.0): Some cards (Napoleon
I, Talleyrand, Pitt, English Gold, Metternich and Alexander I)
allow the players to change the diplomatic alignment of
neutral or enemy countries during the Diplomatic Phase or
Peace Talks. Note that Britain, France, French dominions,
occupied major countries (but see 3.5.5), insurgent countries
and Coalition members that were previously insurgent
countries are immune to enemy diplomacy. Österreich,
Preußen and Russia can only be turned into French allies if
they are occupied by French-controlled forces.
3.2.3.2 Insurrection (see 8.0): The Coalition player can
turn a French dominion or French-occupied neutral country,
but not a French ally, into an insurgent country by playing an
Insurrection card during the Insurrection Phase, but if the
insurrection fails the country becomes a French dominion.
3.2.3.3 Military Conquest and Surrender (see 14.0): By
occupying an enemy country’s capital area—or the entire
country in the case of a minor country—and meeting some
other requirements, a player can force that country to
surrender at the end of the Campaign Phase. Depending on
the situation, the conquered country will become neutral, a
Coalition member, a French ally or a French dominion. Note
that Britain can never be conquered and that the surrender
of France results in a decisive victory for the Coalition
player.
3.2.4 Diplomatic alignment always applies to a whole
country; therefore the different areas of a major country can
never have different diplomatic alignments, even though
some may be occupied by enemy armies.
Note: This rule does not apply to detached areas, which
always have a different diplomatic alignment than the major
country from which they were detached.
3.2.5 Diplomatic alignment affects victory conditions 
(see 6.0), card hand size (see 9.0) and corps availability 
(see 4.0 and 10.0).
3.3 Coalition Members (CMs)
3.3.1 In all three scenarios, some countries start the game as
Coalition members.
3.3.2 During the game, the Coalition player can turn a
country into a Coalition member through diplomacy, a
successful insurrection or military conquest.
3.3.3 The French player can only change the alignment of
Coalition members through diplomacy or military conquest.
3.3.4 Previously insurgent Coalition members are immune
to French diplomacy (see 3.4.4) and are subject to special
surrender rules (see 14.2.1).
6
3.4 Insurgent Countries (ICs)
3.4.1 In the 1809 and 1813 scenarios, some countries start
the game as insurgent countries.
3.4.2 During the game, the Coalition player can turn a
French dominion or a neutral country occupied by French-
controlled troops into an insurgent country by playing an
Insurrection card.
3.4.3 Insurgent corps can only fight to free their own
countries from French rule (see 10.3).
3.4.4 An insurgent country is always immune to French
diplomacy and cannot be forced to surrender during the
Campaign Phase. However, the French player may convert
an insurgent country into a French dominion by meeting the
conditions necessary to defeat an insurrection (see 8.1).
3.4.5 An insurgent country may become a Coalition member
in the Insurrection Phase (see 8.2).
3.5 Neutral Countries (NCs)
3.5.1 In the 1805 and 1809 scenarios, some countries start
the game as neutral countries.
3.5.2 A neutral country is not controlled by either side and
does not provide any corps, cards or even free passage to
either side (see 3.5.4).
3.5.3 During the game, either side can render a country
neutral through diplomacy or military conquest.
3.5.4 Violating a country’s neutrality (see 12.7) always results
in its joining the other side and changing its diplomatic
alignment from neutral country to Coalition member or
French ally, as the case may be.
Note: Special neutrality violation rules apply to a neutral
major country whose capital area remains occupied by the
side to which it surrendered last (see 14.2.4).
3.5.5 An occupied neutral country is always immune to the
non-occupying side’s diplomacy; however, Metternich and
Alexander I can still be played by the Coalition player to turn
Österreich and Russia, respectively, into Coalition members.
3.5.6 A French-occupied neutral country can be subject to
insurrection (see 8.3).
3.6 French Allies (FAs)
3.6.1 In all three scenarios, some countries start the game as
French allies.
3.6.2 During the game, the French player can turn a country
into a French ally through diplomacy or military conquest.
3.6.3 The Coalition player can change the diplomatic
alignment of a French ally through diplomacy or military
conquest, but cannot play an Insurrection card against it.
3.7 French Dominions (FDs)
3.7.1 In all three scenarios, some countries start the game as
French dominions.
3.7.2 During the game, a French dominion can be created
through card play (see Napoleonic Dynasty, Joseph and Territorial
Concessions cards for specific circumstances) or whenever the
French player defeats an insurrection (see 8.1) or forces the
surrender of a previously insurgent Coalition member (see
14.0).
3.7.3 A French dominion is always immune to Coalition
diplomacy. However, the Coalition player may use military
conquest or an insurrection to modify its alignment.
3.8 Britain
3.8.1 Throughout the game, Britain is always a Coalition
member. It is immune to French diplomacy and, thanks to
the Royal Navy, it can never be conquered.
3.8.2 Remember that Britannia immediately comes into
effect if neither Österreich nor Preußen nor Russia is a
Coalition member.
3.9 France
Throughout the game, France is always under French control
and is immune to Coalition diplomacy and insurrection
attempts. However, unlike Britain, it can be conquered, and
when it surrenders, the game is over.
4.0 MILITARY ORGANIZATION
4.1 Armies
4.1.1 All friendly corps, including corps from different
countries, occupying the same area or moving together must
be stacked together and form an “army.”
4.1.2 The composition of an army stack may only be
reviewed by its player, except when a battle takes place, in
which case all “engaged” (see 13.2) corps must be divulged
to the other player.
4.1.3 There is no limit to the number of corps that may
occupy an area at a time; however, the number of corps that
may be moved or engaged in a battle together can never
exceed the seniority rating of their designated army leader
(see 4.2). Excess corps must be left behind when moving or
left unengaged when fighting.
4.2 Army Leaders
4.2.1 In every army, the army leader is at all times the
commander with the highest SR in the area.
4.2.2 If there is a tie in SR between two or more
commanders, their player may choose the army leader.
4.2.3 The army leader’s own corps must always be placed on
top of the stack.
7
5.0 GENERAL COURSE OF PLAY
Each game of Age of Napoleon, 1805-1815 proceeds
through a series of game turns that follow the Sequence of
Play described below.
Diplomacy Phase
Play cards to change the diplomatic alignment of enemy
or neutral countries or to counter the other player’s
diplomatic actions.
Insurrection Phase
Determine the outcome of existing insurrections and—
Coalition player only—play cards to trigger new
insurrections.
Strategy Phase
Discard any remaining cards, reshuffle the card deck if
required and draw new cards.
Reinforcement Phase
Deploy reinforcements, rally spent corps and repatriate
prisoners.
Campaign Phase
Move armies and fight battles.
Surrender Phase
Force the surrender of enemy countries.
Winter Attrition Phase
Determine and remove winter attrition losses, if any.
Victory Check Phase
Determine whether either side has won.
6.0 GAME OBJECTIVES
6.1 French Victory Conditions
6.1.1 Marginal French Victory
France controls or occupies (a) all countries adjacent to
France and (b) either Russia or Österreich while neither
Russia nor Österreich is a Coalition member, an insurgent
country, or a neutral country occupied by the Coalition. In
addition, either French-controlled corps invaded Russia prior
to the current game turn, or the current game turn is 1811 or
later.
6.1.2 Decisive French Victory
France controls or occupies Russia, Österreich, Preußen and
all countries adjacent to France. In addition, no country
except Britain is a Coalition member, an insurgent country ,
or a neutral country occupied by the Coalition.
6.2 Coalition Victory Conditions
6.2.1 Marginal Coalition Victory
France controls France and no more than three minor
countries.
6.2.2 Decisive Coalition Victory
France surrenders or Napoléon’s corps is permanently
eliminated (see 12.3.4).
6.3 Tie-Breaker
If at the end of the 1815 game turn neither side has met the
victory conditions described above, the French player wins.
7.0 DIPLOMACY PHASE
During the Diplomacy Phase each player may play certain
event cards to change the diplomatic alignment of target
countries. The rules described herein also apply when the
Peace Talks card is played during the Campaign Phase.
7.1 Order of Play
7.1.1 The players must take turns targeting countries. The
French player decides whether to play first or second in
1806-1810, and the Coalition player makes that decision in
1811-1815.
7.1.2 If either player chooses not to play a card during his
turn, that player may not play any more cards during the
ongoing Diplomacy Phase.
7.2 Diplomatic Actions
7.2.1 Diplomacy Cards
Each of the following “diplomacy” cards allows one player
or the other to change the diplomatic alignment of a
country: Napoleon I, Talleyrand, English Gold, Pitt, Metternich
and Alexander I.
7.2.2 Countries Immune to Coalition Diplomacy
• France
• Any French dominion
• Any neutral country occupied by French-controlled corps,
except that Metternich and Alexander I can still be played to
turn Österreich and Russia, respectively, into Coalition
members.
7.2.3 Countries Immune to French Diplomacy
• Britain
• Any country currently or previously insurgent
• Any country occupied by Coalition corps
In addition, Österreich, Preußen or Russia can only be
turned into French allies when their respective capital areas
are occupied by French-controlled corps
7.2.4 Procedure
7.2.4.1 The player whose turn it is to play a diplomacy card
must show the card to the other player and declare which
country he targets.
7
8
7.2.4.2 The other player may immediately play a diplomacy
card of his own to counter the first player and prevent the
change in diplomatic alignment.
7.2.4.3 If the other player does not counter, the change in
diplomatic alignment takes place and cannot be reversed in
the same phase (i.e., the same country cannot be targeted by
the other player).
Example: The French player plays Napoleon I to turn
Russia into a neutral country from her present alignment as
a Coalition member. Immediately, the Coalition player plays
Pitt on Russia to counter the French diplomatic action.
Therefore, Russia does not become a neutral country.
7.2.5 French Dominions
Note that the French player cannot play any of the cards
listed in 7.2.1 to create French dominions. However,
Napoleonic Dynasty or Joseph may also be played in the
Diplomacy Phase to such effect.
7.3 Consequences
7.3.1 Alignment markers are changed as needed.
7.3.2 Whenever a country, whether minor or major,
becomes neutral as a result of a diplomatic action:
• all of its corps must be removed from the gameboard.
• all foreign corps occupying its areas are kept in place, but
must mind the neutrality violation rule henceforth (see
12.7).
7.3.3 Whenever a country stops being neutral and joins one
side or the other as a result of a diplomatic action, it may
immediately deploy home corps as per the reinforcement
rules (see 10.0), but all foreign corps occupying its areas are
kept in place.
8. INSURRECTION PHASE
First, the players determine which ongoing insurrections are
failed or successful. Then, the Coalition player may trigger
new insurrections.
8.1 Failed Insurrection
8.1.1 Any insurgent country changes to French dominion
alignment if (a) more than half of its areas, including its
capital area, are occupied by French-controlled forces and (b)
it has no insurgent corps left on the map.
8.1.2 Keep the country’s insurrection marker in place (as a
reminder that it used to be insurgent), but place a French
dominion marker on top of it.
8.2 Successful Insurrection
8.2.1 Any insurgent country becomes a Coalition member if
there are no French-controlled corps left in any of its areas.
8.2.2 Keep the country’s insurrection marker in place (as a
reminder that it used to be insurgent), but place a Coalition
member marker on top of it.
8.3 New Insurrection
8.3.1 By playing an Insurrection card, the Coalition player may
trigger an insurrection in any one French dominion or any
one neutral country whose capital area is occupied by
French-controlled corps (see 14.2.4).
Note: The Coalition player is allowed to target a country
that just had a failed insurrection.
8.3.2 The Coalition player may trigger as many insurrections
as he has Insurrection cards. This means that if he has both
Insurrection cards and both Napoleonica cards, he could trigger
as many as four insurrections in one phase!
8.3.3 As mentioned previously, if Tirol is a French
dominion (after being detached from Österreich by playing
the Territorial Concessions card), it automatically and
immediately becomes an insurgent country whenever
Österreich becomes a Coalition member or an insurgent
country itself. Thereafter, the same rules apply to Tirol as to
any insurgent or previously insurgent country, except that if
Tirol is re-attached to Österreich, its insurrection marker
must be removed (as it is no longer a minor country).
8.3.4 Place an insurrection marker on any newly-insurgent
country and remove its prior alignment marker.
8.3.5 If presently deployed, remove the corps of a now-
insurgent minor country from the gameboard.
8.3.6 Remove any and all corps of a now-insurgent major
country that are deployed outside their home areas from the
gameboard.
8.3.7 Corps of a now-insurgent major country that are
already deployed in their home areas stay where they are. If
they share the same area as French-controlled corps, a battle
must immediately take place as if the French-controlled
corps had been intercepted during the Campaign Phase 
(see 12.6).
8.3.8 All countries that insurrect against French rule become
immune to French diplomacy for the remainder of the game.
As a reminder, insurrection markers are never removed once
placed, regardless of subsequent changes in diplomatic
alignment!
9.0 STRATEGY PHASE
During the Strategy Phase, each player must discard all
remaining cards and receive between 6 and 10 new cards to
refill his hand.
9.1 Each player may first play any and all Strategy Phase or
Anytime cards if he has left before discarding his remaining
cards. The French player discards first in 1805-1810. The
Coalition player discards first in 1811-15.
9.2 If a major country surrendered in the prior game turn,
the card deck must be reshuffled with the discard pile.
9
9.3 Each player must then draw a number of new cards that
is based on the countries he controls (see Strategy Chart of
Player Aid Card 1), but can never be less than 6 or more than
10. The French player draws first in 1805-1810. The
Coalition player draws first in 1811-15.
Example: Britain, Russia and 4 minor countries are
Coalition members, and Spain is an insurgent country.
Based on the countries in his control, the Coalition player is
entitled to 9 cards (4 for Britain + 3 for Russia + 1 for
Spain + 1 for the minor countries).
9.4 If the deck runs out of cards while drawing, shuffle the
discard pile to make a new deck.
9.5 Newly drawn strategy cards may be immediately played!
10.0 REINFORCEMENT PHASE
During the Reinforcement Phase, the players select available
corps from the reserve and deploy them on the gameboard
as reinforcements. The players can also rally spent corps and
repatriate prisoners of war.
10.1 Order of Play
The French player decides whether to play first or second in
1806-1810, and the Coalition player makes that decision in
1811-1815.
10.2 Reinforcements
10.2.1 Reinforcements are provided by the countries under
your control.
10.2.2 Reinforcements are subject to two limits as shown on
the Reinforcement Chart of Player Aid Card 1.
• The Mobilization column indicates how many corps each
listed country can have on the gameboard (not counting
the Prisoners Box) at any time.
• The Deployment column indicates how many corps each
listed country can deploy as reinforcements each
Reinforcement Phase, provided it does not exceed its
own mobilization limit.
Design Note: The limits on French deployment and mobilization of
major allied corps simulate both Napoleon’s lack of trust towards
these allies and the latter’s lack of enthusiasm for providing cannon
fodder for Napoleon’s campaigns.
10.2.3 The Austrian, Prussian and Russian minor allied
corps (i.e., Wrede, Sachsen-Weimar and Charles-John,
respectively) count against the deployment and mobilization
limits of Österreich, Preußen and Russia, respectively, as if
they were home Austrian, Russian and Prussian corps.
However, for France and Britain, the mobilization and
deployment of minor allied corps are subject to separate
limits.
Example: At the beginning of the reinforcement phase,
France has 5 home corps and 1 minor allied corps on the
gameboard and it controls a total of 12 minor allies and
dominions. France can place up to 5 additional home corps
plus up to 4 additional minor allied corps (because 12/3 =
4) and still respect her mobilization limit of 10 French
home corps and 6 minor allied corps (because 12/2 = 6).
10.2.4 Reinforcements may only come from the reserve of
available corps and are chosen by the player deploying them.
10.2.5 All reinforcements are fresh, including corps that
were spent when previously removed from the map.
10.3 Insurgent Corps
10.3.1 An insurgent corps can never attack outside of its
home country and can never move, withdraw or retreat more
than one area away from its home country.
Note #1: Detached areas are still considered home areas
for this purpose, e.g., in the 1813 scenario, insurgent
Prussian corps can attack in Sachsen even though Sachsen
is detached from Preußen.
Note #2: An insurgent corps is allowed to move into an
area adjacent to its home country even if it finds itself to
be the attacker because of an interception by the other side.
10.3.2 If an insurgent corps would have to retreat more than
one area away from its home country, it must be placed the
Prisoners Box instead.
10.4 Deployment
10.4.1 All reinforcements must be deployed in home areas
free of enemy corps. If no such area is available for a given
reinforcement, it may not be deployed.
Example: Bagration can only be deployed in an enemy-
free Russian area, or Charles-John can only be deployed in
an enemy-free Sverige (assuming both Russia and Sverige
are under Coalition control).
Exception #1: Reinforcements deployed immediately after
a neutrality violation (see 12.7) may be deployed in home
areas occupied by enemy corps.
Exception #2: French home corps may also be deployed
in enemy-free, insurgent areas or f\French dominions that
are adjacent to an enemy-free French area.
Exception #3: Provided Britannia is already in effect, as
indicated by the presence of the Britannia marker on the
board, the Coalition player may deploy one Coalition corps
in a coastal area that is both enemy-free and friendly-
controlled. It does not have to be a home area.
10.4.2 Reinforcements may be deployed with existing armies
or in empty areas to create new armies. The owning player
must determine the army leader of any newly created or
reinforced army .
10
10.5 Rallying Spent Corps
A player may discard any number of event cards from his
hand to “unspend” his spent corps, i.e., flip them back to
their “fresh” (front) side, at the rate of one card per army,
regardless of the number of spent corps in the army.
10.6 Repatriating Prisoners
At the end of the Reinforcement Phase, remove all corps
present in the Prisoners Box.
10.7 No Free Exchanges
A player is not allowed to exchange corps in the reserve with
corps on the gameboard at any time during the game except
whenVeterans, Republicans & Royalists or Out of Favor cards is
played.
11.0 CAMPAIGN PHASE – GENERAL
During each Campaign Phase, a player may move his armies
and have them engage in battle against enemy armies.
11.1 Campaign Rounds
11.1.1 The Campaign Phase lasts six bi-monthly campaign
rounds (except in the first game turn of each scenario).
11.1.2 The fifth and sixth campaign rounds are the “winter”
campaign rounds; they are shown in a different background
color on the campaign round track.
Design Note: The 2nd winter campaign round actually corresponds
to January and February of the following year.
11.1.3 Move the campaign round marker on the campaign
round track in order to keep track of the ongoing campaign
round.
11.2 Order of Play
11.2.1 The French player decides whether to move first or
second in 1805-1810, and the Coalition player makes that
decision in 1811-1815.
11.2.2 Once the player moving first has been determined,
play continues for the duration of that Campaign Phase,
with the same player moving first and the other player
moving last in each campaign round.
11.3 Peace Talks
The Peace Talks card, which must be played at the very
beginning of the campaign round it will first affect, may
shorten a Campaign Phase by up to two campaign rounds,
but its effect may not carry over the end of a game turn.
11.4 Winter Quarters
The Winter Quarters card, which must be played at the very
beginning of the campaign round it will first affect, may
shorten the Campaign Phase by cancelling the second or
both winter campaign rounds.
12.0 CAMPAIGN PHASE – MOVEMENT
12.1 Movement – General Principles
12.1.1 Moving an army is never mandatory.
Design Note: It is unlikely that you will move an army every
round because it costs cards (see below) and/or because the losses that
your armies incur while marching or fighting might force you to pause
and wait until the following year.
12.1.2 The moving player may normally move only one army
per campaign round.
Exception: By playing a Major Campaign card, up to three
armies may be moved per campaign round, although no
corps can be moved more than once. A player is not
allowed to play a Major Campaign card after having already
moved one army in the current campaign round.
12.1.3 The moving player may move an entire army or
detach corps to form a new army and move the latter.
12.1.4 The moving player may never move any army with
more corps than the SR of its designated army leader.
Excess corps, if any, must be left in the area of departure
prior to any move.
12.1.5 Any moving army may pick up or drop off friendly
corps along the way provided it always keeps the same army
leader and its total move never exceeds the movement
allowance (see 12.2.2) of its army leader.
Note: The fact that an army cannot pick up a corps with a
higher SR and still move does not prevent said army from
moving through an area where there is a friendly corps with
a higher SR.
12.1.6 The other player’s armies may have the opportunity to
“withdraw” in front of (see 12.5), or “intercept” (see 12.6),
the moving player’s armies.
12.1.7 Every army move or interception requires the moving
player to discard one card. No discard is necessary to
withdraw before battle or retreat.
Exception #1: Each player’s first move or interception of
the Campaign Phase, regardless of the campaign round in
which it takes place, does not require a discard.
Exception #2: The play of a Forced March card entitles a
player to move or intercept without discarding a card (other
than the played Forced March card).
Note: When playing a Major Campaign card, the moving
player must discard one card for each army that he wants to
move (but Exception #1 may still apply).
12.1.8 The moving player must stop moving his army as
soon as the latter has exhausted its MA or entered an enemy-
occupied area.
1111
12.2 Land Movement
12.2.1 All armies may move by land. Land movement is
conducted between adjacent areas.
12.2.2 An army’s movement allowance is the maximum
number of areas it may successively enter during its land
movement. It is equal to its army leader’s MR, adjusted as
follows:
-1 .......... in winter
-1 .......... if the move is meant to attack an enemy army 
in battle (even if the enemy withdraws)
-1 .......... if subject to a Mud card
+1 .......... if playing a Forced March card
All modifiers are cumulative.
Note: Sometimes a battle takes place because of an
interception or because an enemy army is deployed in the
area entered by the active player’s army in response to a
neutrality violation. In such a case, the moving army’s
movement allowance is not penalized for attacking.
12.2.3 If, for any reason, an army does not use all of its MA
before it stops moving, it loses any remaining MA.
12.2.4 Special Rule: French-controlled armies may only
land-move between Sverige and Danmark if neither
Danmark nor Sverige are Coalition members. Coalition
armies may always land-move between Sverige and
Danmark.
12.2.5 Special Rule: Land movement is possible between
Sverige and Lithuania during the winter campaign rounds.
The Baltic Sea area counts as one area.
12.3 March Attrition
12.3.1 Each corps that enters a third or fourth area during
the same move, or enters a mountain or marsh area, or
enters any area during a winter campaign round, or enters
any area during a Forced March is subject to march attrition
upon each occurence and prior to the resolution of any
withdrawal, interception or battle.
12.3.2 For each cause of march attrition, the owning player
must roll one die and cross-reference the result with the
number of spent corps subject to march attrition on the
March Attrition Table (see Player Aid 2). This determines the
number of spent corps lost to march attrition.
12.3.3 A fresh corps can never be lost to march attrition and
is ignored when rolling on the March Attrition Table, but
must become spent instead, which will immediately reduce
its remaining movement allowance. However, if a fresh
corps is subject to two or more causes of march attrition in
the same area, it only avoids one die roll by becoming spent
and must be taken into account when rolling for the other
cause(s) of march attrition.
Example: One fresh corps and one spent corps enter a
mountain area in winter while force-marching, making
them subject to three (!) causes of march attrition. To
account for the first cause, the owning player must roll one
die to check whether his spent corps is eliminated while his
fresh corps must become spent. Assuming the corps that
was already spent survives, the owning player must now roll
another die for his two corps, as they are both spent now.
Then he must roll another die for any surviving corps.
12.3.4 March attrition losses are “permanent” if they occur
in a winter campaign round, meaning the lost corps become
unavailable for the remainder of the game (but see Veterans
card). Otherwise, they are “temporary,” meaning the lost
corps are simply placed in the Prisoners Box. The owning
player chooses his losses.
Design Note: March attrition can be quite harsh (and require a lot
of die rolls) when moving in winter and/or force-marching, so do the
latter at your troops’s own risk!
12.4 Sea Movement
12.4.1 Once Britannia is in effect, the Coalition player may
move one Coalition corps of any nationality per campaign
round from one coastal area to another.
12.4.2 The arrival area needs not be enemy-free or friendly-
controlled, but any corps attacking at the end of a sea move
will be penalized in battle (see 13.3.2).
12.4.3 Special Rule: Sea movement in and out of, or
within, the Baltic Sea (all areas from Danmark to Livonia) is
prohibited during winter campaign rounds. However, it is
possible to move from Danmark to a non-Baltic coastal area.
12.4.4 The French player may never move any corps by sea.
12.5 Withdrawal
12.5.1 If the moving army enters an area occupied by an
enemy army, the non-moving player may opt to withdraw
any or all of his corps to an adjacent, enemy-free area (other
than the area from which the enemy army is coming) and
avoid battle.
12.5.2 For a withdrawal to happen, the MR of the non-
moving army leader must be greater than or equal to the MR
of the moving army’s leader. Any leader’s MR can be
improved by the play of a Forced March card for this purpose.
12.5.3 If Britannia is in effect, one Coalition corps of any
nationality per campaign round can withdraw by sea to an
enemy-free home area.
12.5.4 An army is not allowed to withdraw from a battle
when already engaged by a moving army. Thus, if the
moving player plays a Major Campaign card, the non-moving
player may not wait and see whether more than one army
move against his before deciding whether to withdraw.
12.5.5 If the other player leaves one or more corps behind
as a rearguard when he withdraws, the moving army must
stop moving and fight a battle against the rearguard. If the
other player leaves no corps behind, the moving army may
stop, move after the withdrawing corps, or move to another
area, provided, in the last two cases, that it has not yet
exhausted its MA.
12
12.5.6 If the moving army follows the withdrawing corps,
any or all of the latter may again opt to withdraw, as long as
they do not end up moving more than their MA would
normally permit.
Example: An army led by a commander with a MR of 3
could not withdraw more than thrice in a non-winter
campaign round or twice in a winter campaign round.
12.5.7 Any army that withdraws into a mountain or marsh
area is subject to march attrition after completing the
withdrawal move.
12.6 Interception
12.6.1 If the moving army enters an area (the “interception
area”) that: (a) contains no friendly army and, (b) is adjacent
to an area occupied by an enemy army, the player controlling
the enemy army may opt to move any or all of its corps into
the interception area to force a battle with the moving army.
12.6.2 For an interception to happen, the MR of the
intercepting army leader must be greater than or equal to the
MR of the moving army’s leader. Any leader’s MR can be
improved by the play of a Forced March card for this purpose.
Note: The intercepting army leader is the leader of the
enemy army occupying the area adjacent to the interception
area, not the leader of the army actually sent to intercept.
Example: If Kutuzov (MR=3; SR=6) and Bagration
(MR=4; SR=4) are in the same area, it is Kutuzov’s MR
that counts and not Bagration’s even if the intercepting
player only wants to move Bagration in the interception
area.
12.6.3 The intercepting player must discard one card of his
choice unless it is his first interception of the turn and he
has moved no army in the turn so far.
12.6.4 The intercepting player chooses whether to attack or
defend in the battle that results from the interception.
Exception: If a player intercepts into an area where he
already has another army that is about to be attacked, he is
automatically the defender.
12.6.5 The same army in the same interception area may be
intercepted with any number of enemy armies that are in a
position to intercept, provided (a) one card is discarded, as
required, for each intercepting army and (b) all intercepting
armies either defend or attack together as one army.
12.6.6 The moving player may in turn counter-intercept an
intercepting army in the same interception area if all other
requirements are met. However, the original intercepting
player stills decides which side attacks and which side
defends unless he must defend as per the 12.6.4 exception.
Example: A French army (MR = 3) moves into Lithuania
from Ostpreußen and is intercepted by a Russian army (MR
= 4) in Livonia. The French player can reinforce his
intercepted army by counter-intercepting with another of
his armies (MR = 4) occupying Polen. However, it is the
Coalition player who decides whether the Russians are
attacking or defending in the ensuing battle.
12.6.7 An intercepted army cannot withdraw to avoid battle.
12.6.8 Any army that intercepts into a mountain or marsh
area is subject to march attrition after determining whether
the interception is possible or not, but prior to fighting the
interception battle.
Example: The French player wants to intercept John
(MR=3) in Tirol with Marmont (who is fresh) coming from
Dalmatien. Even though Tirol is a mountain area, the
French player uses Marmont’s fresh MR of 3 to determine
whether he can intercept John. Only then, prior to engaging
in battle, does Marmont become spent due to march
attrition.
12.6.9 An army that intercepts an enemy army as the latter
enters a neutral country is considered to be violating that
country’s neutrality (see 12.7) unless (i) that country is a
major country, (ii) the enemy army is intercepted upon
entering its capital area, and (iii) the intercepting player
chooses to attack.
12.7 Neutrality Violation
12.7.1 A neutrality violation occurs immediately when an
army:
• drops off one or more corps in a neutral country, or
• completes its move, interception, withdrawal or retreat in
a neutral country, or
• enters the capital area of a neutral major country.
Exception: There is no neutrality violation if any of the
above actions is completed by one side in a neutral country
that it occupies (see 14.2.4).
Example: If France occupies a neutral Preußen and
Napoleon is forced to retreat from Minsk to Polen, there is
no violation. However, if Kutuzov follows him up in Polen,
Preußen’s neutrality is violated and Preußen becomes a
French ally.
Note: There is no neutrality violation when foreign corps
are present in a country when it turns neutral as long as
these corps do not subsequently commit any of the three
types of violations described under 12.7.1.
Example: French corps are in Magdeberg when Preußen,
a French ally to that point, becomes neutral due to a
successful diplomatic action by the Coalition player. As
long as the French corps stay where they are, there is no
neutrality violation. In fact, Preußen becomes an occupied
neutral. If the French corps then move and leave Preußen
at once, there is no neutrality violation either. If the French
corps are attacked or intercepted by Coalition corps while
still in Preußen, Preußen’s neutrality is violated by the
Coalition and Preußen becomes a French ally.
12.7.2 A country whose neutrality is violated immediately
abandons its neutrality by joining the other side, as either a
French ally or Coalition member, as applicable, and may
immediately deploy its corps per the reinforcement rules (but
see 12.7.3 below).
13
13
Note: These corps deploy after the neutrality violation has
occurred; which means that if the neutrality violation is
caused by an army dropping off corps, this army must
move to an adjacent area before the corps of the violated
country can be deployed.
12.7.3 The new corps may be deployed in any area(s) of the
violated country, including those now occupied by the
moving player’s corps. If this is the case, a battle must
immediately take place as if the corps of the violated
country had intercepted.
Note: This holds true for minor countries where minor
allied commands are available.
Example: If the French violate Portugal’s neutrality,
causing Portugal to become a Coalition member, the
Coalition player can deploy the Anglo-Portuguese corps
(Beresford), provided there are not already two British
minor allied corps on the map (which is the mobilization
limit for British minor allied corps).
13.0 CAMPAIGN PHASE – BATTLE
13.1 Battle – General Principles
13.1.1 A battle automatically occurs if an army enters an area
(the “battle area”) occupied by an enemy army that has not
withdrawn in its entirety. If an army cannot initiate a battle
because it would not have any movement allowance left for
it, it may not enter the area in question.
Design Note: A “battle” in Age of Napoleon 1805-1815
usually represents a series of small and large battles within a given
area.
13.1.2 Battles have to be resolved after all army moves,
interceptions and withdrawals have been completed and after
any march attrition effects have been applied.
13.1.3 No corps can move, intercept or withdraw in the
same phase after fighting a battle, regardless of outcome.
13.2 Orders of Battle
13.2.1 The maximum number of corps that a player may
engage in a battle is equal to the seniority rating of the army
leader in the battle area.
Note #1: In a Major Campaign, more than one attacking
army can attack a single defending army simultaneously, but
the number of attacking corps that can be engaged in battle
is still limited by the highest seniority rating among them.
Note #2: The Interior Lines card is a campaign card to be
played when the same army is attacked by two or more
enemy armies in the context of a Major Campaign or
multiple interceptions. It allows the defending army to fight
each attacking army in separate battles until defeated. Note
that in this case the seniority rating constraint separately
applies to each attacking army. Interior Lines cannot be not
canceled by Fog of War.
13.2.2 If a player has more corps in the battle area than he
can or wants to engage, he must place the corps he wishes to
engage/use in the Battle Box and leave his unengaged corps
in the battle space. The attacker must declare first.
13.2.3 Even if a player decides not to engage his army
leader’s own corps, it is still the latter’s seniority rating that
matters when it comes to determining how many corps the
player can engage in the battle.
13.2.4 Each player must engage at least one corps.
13.3 Battle Resolution
13.3.1 Each side’s battle strength is determined by summing
up the BRs of all its engaged corps, including that of its
army leader.
13.3.2 Relevant situation modifiers are applied to each side’s
battle strength:
+1 .......... per corps fighting at home
-2 .......... per corps attacking at the end of a sea move
13.3.3 Cards applicable to battles are played; any card played
can only affect the battle in which it is played. The attacker
must play all his cards first, including the Fog of War card.
A player cannot play two identical cards in the same battle.
Note #1: For the purpose of playing nationality-
dependent cards (e.g., Grand Battery), all red corps game
playing pieces are considered British, all blue pieces French,
etc.
Note #2: The Hero’s Death card must be played
immediately after the number of losses is determined. It is
not canceled by the play of the Fog of War card.
13.3.4 Each player rolls one die and cross-references his
result with the modified battle strength of his engaged corps
on the Battle Results Table (see Player Aid Card 2) in order
to determine the number of corps losses inflicted on the
enemy.
13.3.5 Victory automatically goes to the side that inflicts the
most losses and the loser’s losses are increased by one.
13.3.6 In the event of a tie, each player rolls another die,
adding the Tie-Breaker Modifier (TBM) shown on the last
row of the Battle Results Table. The player with the higher
modified die roll wins. If the modified die rolls are tied
again, the defender wins. Neither side sustains additional
losses in tie-breaker situations.
Example: A French army has a battle strength of 18 and
rolls a 4, causing 1 loss. Its Coalition opponent has a battle
strength of 12 and also rolls a 4, causing 1 loss. The
number of losses inflicted is identical, therefore the players
need to roll again to break the tie, with the French player
having a +3 TBM and the Coalition player having a 
+2 TBM.
14
13.4 Battle Outcome
13.4.1 Losses
13.4.1.1 Half the losses sustained by each side are
permanent and all other losses are temporary. If a side
sustained an odd number of losses, the last (odd) loss is
permanent if that side lost the battle or won after a tie-
breaker. Otherwise the last (odd) loss is temporary.
Note: If a side suffers just one loss, that loss is considered
to be the last (odd) loss. Therefore, if that side won the
battle after a tie-breaker or lost the battle, its loss is
permanent; otherwise, it is temporary.
13.4.1.2 Each player chooses his own losses. However, a
player can play the Hero’s Death card to choose one of the
other player’s permanent losses, if any.
13.4.1.3 Losses must be taken from engaged corps first.
However, if losses exceed the number of engaged corps,
excess losses must be taken among unengaged corps, if any.
13.4.1.4 All temporary losses incurred by the loser must be
placed in the Prisoners Box while those incurred by the
winner must be returned to the reserve.
Note #1: It is possible—but unlikely—that all corps of
both sides are eliminated in a very small battle. This
outcome is allowed.
Note #2: It is also possible that the winner loses all of his
corps while the loser does not; this situation does not
change the outcome of the battle (i.e., which side wins and
which side loses).
13.4.1.5 A side can never sustain more losses than it has
corps in the battle area.
Example: If a side has 2 corps and suffers 3 losses, there
effectively is no 3rd loss since there are only 2 corps; one
loss is permanent and the other loss is temporary.
13.4.1.6 All surviving corps that were engaged on either side
are spent. Corps that began the battle spent are not further
penalized. Corps that were not engaged do not become
spent.
13.4.2 Retreat
13.4.2.1 The loser’s surviving corps, including those
unengaged, must all retreat to one adjacent, enemy-free area.
If possible, the retreat must be made towards the capital area
of the majority of the corps in the retreating army (loser’s
choice in the event of a tie).
13.4.2.2 The defender, if forced to retreat, may not retreat
to any area from which an attacking army entered the battle
area.
13.4.2.3 The attacker or the interceptor, if forced to retreat,
must retreat to one of the areas from which his armies
entered the battle area.
13.4.2.4 In each battle, up to one Coalition corps of any
nationality may retreat by sea from a coastal area provided
Britannia is in effect. The retreating corps must be placed in
an enemy-free, friendly-controlled, coastal home area.
Remember that coastal areas bordering the Baltic Sea are not
accessible by sea during the winter.
Example: The Russian Sverige corps could only retreat by
sea to Sverige, assuming Sverige was enemy-free and
Coalition-controlled and it was not during a winter
campaign round.
13.4.2.5 Corps retreating into a mountain area and/or into a
marsh area and/or in the winter are subject to march attrition.
13.4.2.6 Insurgent corps cannot retreat more than one area
away from their home country.
13.4.2.7 Any and all retreating corps that are unable to
retreat as required are removed from the gameboard and
placed in the Prisoners Box.
13.4.2.8 The loser can always choose to remove all of his
surviving corps and place them all in the Prisoners Box
instead of having them retreat to a neutral country and cause
a neutrality violation. That is the only circumstance in which
a player may voluntarily decide to place some of his corps in
the Prisoners Box.
13.4.3 Victory
13.5.3.1 The winner’s surviving corps, including those
unengaged, stay in the battle area.
13.4.3.2 The winner may discard—not play—one card to
rally all his surviving corps, including any present in the
battle area but not engaged in the battle, provided he does
not play a Pursuit card.
Exception: He may not do so between the successive
battles that take place due to the play of the Interior Lines
card.
14.0 SURRENDER PHASE
Surrender conditions must be checked in the following
order: all minor countries, Spain, Preußen, Österreich, Russia
and France.
Note #1: The No Surrender card may prevent the surrender
of a country except in 1815 when it cannot be played.
Note #2: Remember that currently insurgent countries
never surrender in the Surrender Phase.
Note #3: Remember that Britannia immediately comes into
effect if neither Österreich nor Preußen nor Russia is a
Coalition member.
15
15
14.1 Minor Countries
14.1.1 A minor country automatically surrenders if it is
occupied by enemy corps and joins the occupying side.
14.1.2 A minor country surrendering to the French side
becomes a French ally unless it was previously an insurgent
country, in which case it becomes a French dominion.
14.1.3 A minor country surrendering to the Coalition side
becomes a Coalition member.
Exception: Any minor country previously detached from
Österreich or Preußen by the French player must be
immediately re-attached to its original ruler if (a) it
surrenders to Coalition armies and (b) its original ruler is a
Coalition member. If the latter condition is not met, the
minor country remains detached, as an independent
Coalition member.
14.1.4 Any and all corps of surrendering minor countries,
including minor allied corps, must be immediately removed
from the gameboard.
14.2 Major Countries
14.2.1 A major country must surrender if:
• its capital area is occupied by at least one enemy corps,
and,
• the number of enemy corps occupying its areas is greater
than the number of friendly corps (including allies)
remaining in any of its areas, or it has no home corps left
in any of its areas.
Exception: For a formerly insurgent major country to
surrender to the French side, all the conditions for a failed
insurrection (see 8.1) must be met.
14.2.2 When a major country surrenders, it becomes neutral,
and all its remaining corps must be removed from the
gameboard. A neutral alignment marker is placed on its
capital area.
Exception: If a previously, but not currently, insurgent
major country surrenders to the French player, it
automatically becomes a French dominion.
14.2.3 Each foreign corps previously allied to the
surrendering major country and present in any of the latter’s
areas is removed to the Prisoners Box if it is surrounded by
enemy-occupied areas or the sea. Otherwise it must be
immediately placed in the nearest enemy-free, friendly-
controlled area, regardless of where the latter is. If Britannia
is in effect, then one Coalition corps of any nationality
occupying a coastal area may also be repositioned as if it
were retreating by sea (see 13.4.2.4).
14.2.4 For as long as the victor maintains at least one corps
in the capital area of a major country that he forced to
surrender, that major country is said to be an occupied
neutral country and the neutrality violation rule (see 12.7) is
suspended for the occupying side only.
14.2.5 Remember that an occupied neutral country is
immune to diplomacy cards played by the other side (keeping
in mind the Metternich and Alexander I exceptions). However,
in the event it is occupied by French-controlled troops, it
may be turned into an insurgent country by the play of an
Insurrection card.
14.2.6 If the Napoleon Returns! optional rule is in effect
(see 18.1 in Scenarios and More) the French player may also
opt to have France surrender even if the above conditions
are not met.
15.0 WINTER ATTRITION PHASE
15.1 Each player must roll one die for each area in which he
has three or more corps. The relevant modifiers are applied
to each die roll and the result is cross-referenced with the
number of corps on the Winter Attrition Table (see Player
Aid Card 2). This determines the number of corps lost to
winter attrition in the tested area.
15.2 All winter attrition losses are permanent. The owning
player removes the corps of his choice.
Example: Napoleon’s army of 5 fresh corps and 3 spent
corps completes the Campaign Phase in neutral Moscow.
The French player rolls a 4, + 1 (for capital area), - 2 (for
barren area) for a modified die roll result of 3. Napoléon’s
army therefore must sustain 2 permanent losses.
Note: It is possible to play Napoleonica to recover a Depot
card that was just played and play that Depot card again.
The same applies to Scorched Earth.
16.0 VICTORY CHECK PHASE
16.1 See Game Objectives in 6.0.
16.2 If a player fullfills the conditions for a marginal victory
in the Victory Check Phase, he may immediately end the
game. However, he may also continue to play in order to try
and gain a decisive victory later. If the fortunes of war
change, he may not later claim his earlier marginal victory if
he does not fullfill the conditions anymore.
CREDITS
Thanks to all the players who have played the first published version of the game and made the
comments that have led to this updated version. We hope you keep enjoying the game.
Design: Renaud Verlaque
Development: Renaud Verlaque, Ulrich Blennemann
Original Playtesting: Michael Bruinsma, Steve Crowley, Neville Fisher, John Foley,
Garry Haggerty, Matthew Hayes, Andy Lewis, Christoph Ludwig, Kim Meints,
John Menichelli, Dan Raspler, Neil Siddons-Smith, Jim Silsby (and son), Gareth Simon,
Peter Stein, Stuart Tucker, Charles Vasey, Rick Young.
Proof-Reading (Revised Edition): Scott diBerardino, Michael Goulker, Coleman Charlton
Production: Michael Bruinsma, Ulrich Blennemann
Graphics: Franz Vohwinkel
Layout: Renaud Verlaque
