Game  Compone nts
cardboard pieces 
1	 game board
2	 farm boards (one for each player)
4	 farm expansions
4 “stall” tiles (with “stables” on the reverse sides) 
4	 special buildings (“Half-Timbered House”, “Storage Building”, 
“Shelter” and “Open Stables”)
9 different goods tiles (3x “4 sheep”; 1x “4 stone”, ”4 reed”,  
“4 wood”, “4 pigs”, “4 cows” and “4 horses”)
1 start player tile
wooden pieces 
2 x 3 workers in the player colors (blue, red)
	 26 borders (yellow)
	 22 sheep, 16 pigs, 13 cows and 14 horses 
	 17 wood, 15 stones and 5 reeds
	 10 yellow feeding troughs
additionally
1	 score pad 
2	 large plastic bags 
	 these rules
© 2012 Lookout Games 
Made in Germany
Game  Se tup
	 Place the game board in the middle of the playing area. 
 Give each player a farm board and place them such that 
the forest is at the top and the path is at the bottom. 
	 Lay out the 4 special buildings “Half-Timbered House”, 
“Open Stables”, “Shelter” and “Storage Building” next  
to each other. 
	 Place the 4 farm expansions, 10 feeding troughs and  
4 stall tiles off to the side. Sort the building materials 
and the animals. These form the general supply. 
 Give both players 9 borders. Place the remaining  
8 borders next to the game board near the “Expand” 
action space.
G a me Ob j e c t
You are farmers raising sheep, pigs, cows and horses. Three 
workers help you keep the animals on your farm. They build 
stalls, enclose pastures and upgrade your farm. Stalls get 
expanded into stables and your cottage becomes a Half-
Timbered House. 
Each round, your workers carry out one action each. All of the 
possible actions are clearly summarized on the game board. The 
catch is that each action can only be used once per round. Since 
you take turns placing your workers, you need the right timing 
to be able to carry the actions most important to you at the right 
moment. 
The winner is the player who has raised the most animals and 
built the most valuable buildings at the end of the game. 
Credits
“Agricola - All Creatures Big and Small” was invented in October 2011. Uwe 
Rosenberg and Hanno Girke edited the game. Production was by Hanno Girke. 
For rules editing, the author thanks Andreas Odendahl, Gabriele Goldschmidt, 
Thalke Hilgen and Bernd Lautenschlager. Graphics and illustrations are by Klemens 
Franz. English translation by Patrick Korner. The author thanks all playtesters, in 
chronological order, without whom the game would not exist in this form: Marei 
Zylka, Susanne Rosenberg, Verena Wall, Hagen Dorgathen, Hanno Girke, Andrea 
Kattnig, Klemens Franz, Janina Kranicz, Ingrid Kranicz, Marcel Jacobsmeier, Marcus 
Wenzel, Andreas Höhne, Andreas Odendahl, Claudia Odendahl, Thalke Hilgen, 
Yvonne Möller, Martin Bouchard, Jean-François Gagné, Sophie Gravel, Christophe 
Tremblay, Louis-Philippe Gravel, Agnes Mannherz, Franz Heidbüchel, Birgit 
Winkelhaus, Bastian Winkelhaus, Holger Janssen, Sabine Weiand, Ulli Weiand, 
Thomas Naumann, Bernd Lautenschlager, Felix Girke, Judith Girke, Nadja Beller, 
Arne Topp, Thomas Bingeser, Lea Topp, Sarah Bingeser, Gabriele Goldschmidt, 
Nicole Weinberger, Mick Kapik, Nils Miehe, Lasse Goldschmidt, Thalea Westkämper, 
Ingo Kasprzak, Insa Zylka Thomas Balcerek, Michael Dormann, Monika Harke, 
Janine Dorschu, Rosemarie Vahland, Brunhilde Kapik, Sigrun Möllemann, Andrea 
Rickert, Arne Hoffmann, Thorsten Ebner, Tobias Recker, Sebastian Schock, Lorenz 
Merdian, Agnieszka Kobiela, Grzegorz Kobiela, Kai Poggenklas, Stefanie Löns, Diana 
Overbeck Christian Scheibner and André Emkes.
“Can I eat the sheep at least?” – Janina Kranicz
by Uwe Rosenberg, for 2 players 13 and up
1
www.zmangames.com
English language publisher:  
Z-Man Games, Inc. © 2012
3250, F.X. Tessier, Vaudreuil-Dorion 
Québec, Canada, J7V 5V5
Goal Of The  G a me
At the end of the game, the success of your farm gets measured. This is what your farm might look like. 
(The text boxes give you a preview of the rules you need to keep an eye on in this game.)
1. Separate your farm into 
pastures. The pastures let 
you keep sheep, pigs, cows 
and horses. 
9. You can 
expand 
your farm 
with farm 
expansions. 
4. Feeding 
troughs double 
the number of 
animals that 
can be kept. 
5. A stall can hold  
3 animals or 6 with 
a feeding trough.  
A pasture can hold 
2 animals or 4 with 
a feeding trough. 
10. Fully utilized 
farm expansions 
bring additional 
points. 
3. Building walls 
also act as borders 
for additional 
pastures.
6. You can have no more than 
1 animal standing next to an 
unenclosed feeding trough. 
2. You can keep additional 
animals in buildings: this 
stable can hold 5 of the 
same type. 
7. Buildings are worth points: 
Upgrading your cottage to 
a Half-Timbered House is 
worth 5 points, for example. 
8. These are special buildings. 
Cottage
Shelter
immediately
Stables
Stall
Half-Timbered House
2
As the player had already built a stall, he needed only 4 borders 
for his pasture instead of 5. (Keep in mind that you do not have 
all that many borders available to you over the course of the 
entire game.)
 When a building gets built adjacent to pre-existing 
borders, 
… the borders illustrated on the building do not provide 
any additional benefit.  
…	you may not return the previously built borders to 
your supply. 
 It is often very smart to partially enclose pastures in 
order to later use a building to finish them off. You can 
save valuable borders in this way. 
 You have one building at the start of the game:  
your cottage. 
The Cottage
You can keep exactly  
1 animal in your cottage  
(a house pet of sorts).
The “Half-Timbered House” 
special building (see page 8) 
lets you upgrade your 
cottage and keep additional 
animals. 
Ga mepl a y
Players take turns choosing actions from those indicated 
on the game board. A detailed explanation of the action 
spaces can be found on pages 6 and 7.
Th e R u l e s  o f  R aising Anim als
Animals can be kept in pastures and in buildings. Feeding 
troughs improve the potential for keeping animals.
Keeping Animals in Pastures
You use the borders to enclose your pastures. Each fully 
enclosed pasture can hold up to 2 animals per space. 
Each pasture can only hold a single animal type. 
In this pasture, there is room  
for up to 4 animals of the same type.
	Note! You are allowed to have pastures with unfinished 
borders. Unfinished pastures cannot hold any animals, 
however. 
 It doesn’t matter if the borders are made of wood  
(as fences) or stone (as walls). You do not need to  
(and should not) distinguish between them afterward.
Keeping Animals in Buildings
Animals can also be kept in buildings. Buildings get built 
on farm spaces that do not have any building tiles on them 
yet. Building them makes it easier to enclose pastures, as 
4 borders are also depicted around each building tile. 
One sheep (along with the 
player’s three workers) lives 
in this cottage. 
Cottage
Cottage
Cottage
Stall
3
immediately
Open Stables
Stalls and Stables
Each stall can hold up to 3 animals of the same type.  
You can upgrade your stall to a stable. Each stable can 
hold up to 5 animals of the same type. 
 A stall costs 3 stone and 1 reed. Upgrading a stall to a 
regular stable costs either 5 stone or 5 wood. 
 When upgrading to a regular stable, simply turn the 
“stall” tile over. 
 In addition to the regular stables, there is also one Open 
Stables tile (see page 8) in the game; it is a special kind 
of stables. Open Stables are a special building. 
Special Buildings
In addition to stalls and stables, there are also special 
buildings. The cottage you start with counts as a special 
building, as do the Half-Timbered House, Storage Building, 
Shelter and Open Stables. The number of animals you can 
keep in a special building is indicated by the number on 
the bottom right of the tile.
Costs and prerequisites  
for building
Points for the 
“points for 
buildings” 
scoring  
category
Building 
name
The number of 
animals that can 
be kept in this 
building
Building function
	Buildings may be built in fully enclosed pastures.
This size three pasture is being split by a stall. Previously, 
it could hold 6 animals of the same type. After building 
the stall, there is room for 2+3+2=7 animals of up to 
three different types.
Keeping Animals With Feeding Troughs
Feeding troughs double the animal number that can be 
kept both in pastures as well as in buildings.
The feeding 
trough provides 
room for  
6 animals in  
the stall and 
for 8 animals 
in a size two 
pasture. The 
feeding trough 
also doubles 
the number of 
animals that  
can be kept in 
the cottage.
A feeding trough on a farm space that does not belong to 
a fully enclosed pasture can keep exactly 1 animal.
One horse can 
be happily fed by 
this free-standing 
feeding trough.
Stall
2
2
3
Cottage
Stall
3 x 2
(2+2) x 2
1 x 2
Cottage
4
You are allowed to build a maximum of one feeding 
trough on each (occupied or unoccupied) farm space. 
	Although you can build only one feeding trough on each 
farm space, you are allowed to have multiple feeding 
troughs in pastures made up of multiple spaces. 
 
 You are allowed to enclose a pasture around a pre-
existing feeding trough. In that case the feeding trough’s 
effect changes to suit its new surroundings. 
 You are allowed to build a stall or other building on a 
space with a pre-existing feeding trough. In that case 
the feeding trough remains but again has a new effect.
 You are allowed to upgrade a stall with a feeding trough 
to a stable with a feeding trough. The feeding trough 
remains.
Imp o r t a n t  B asic R u les
Once anything is built, it cannot be moved or removed. 
Animals, on the other hand, can run around. You are 
therefore allowed to move animals around or remove 
them from your farm at any time. (Moving animals 
around is also important if you want to make the best use 
of the space at your disposal.)
Ga mepl a y
Determine a start player. The game is played over  
8 rounds. Each round is made up of 4 phases.
1. Refill Phase
At the start of each round, refill some of 
the action spaces on the game board with 
the goods printed on them (even if there 
are goods left on them from the previous 
round). You can recognize these spaces by 
the refill arrow on them.
Do not place any goods on action spaces  
without the refill arrow. 
The “good 1 (good 2)” graphic on the game board 
indicates that you add good 1 to the action space if it is 
empty but add good 2 to it if the space is still occupied.
 Make sure you do not forget to add the yellow borders 
to the “expand” action space, as these borders ‘count’ 
the eight rounds that the game lasts.
2. Work Phase
Starting with the start player, take turns placing exactly 
one worker. Immediately carry out the action on the 
chosen action space. 
Important: Occupied action spaces are blocked to other 
workers until the end of the work phase. The work phase 
is over once all six workers have been placed.
Thanks to the 2 feeding 
troughs on this two space 
pasture, there is room for 
up to 16 animals of the 
same type. The capacity 
of the pasture is doubled 
and then doubled again 
(4x2=8; 8x2=16).
Refill arrow
Example: In round 1, place a reed 
on the “1 reed (1 sheep)” action 
space. As long as this action 
space is not used, a sheep is 
added to it in subsequent rounds. 
As soon as the space is used and 
emptied, 1 reed gets added to it 
again in the next round.
Cottage
Hint for parents playing with a child: One parent teams 
up with the kid and plays against the other parent. In the 
team, the parent always gives the child 2 actions to choose 
from. They decide together how to build the farmyard.
5
 If you choose an action space with goods on it, take all 
of those goods. 
	You are not allowed to choose an action space without 
carrying out the associated action. 
 Building materials you receive get added to your supply. 
Animals must be kept on your farm board. Animals 
you do not have room for immediately run away and 
get returned to the general supply. Pastures, stalls and 
feeding troughs help you prevent this from happening 
(see the rules about keeping animals). 
 Remember: You can always move your animals around 
on your farm. 
3. Home Phase
At the end of the work phase, all workers return to their 
farms.
4. Breeding Phase
Animals breed at the end of each round. If you have at 
least 2 animals of the same type, you receive another 
one of the same type.
	Important! You can get at most 1 sheep, 1 pig, 1 cow 
and 1 horse per breeding phase. Example: Even if you 
have 2 sheep on one pasture and 2 more on another 
pasture, you only get one additional sheep, regardless 
of whatever romantic preconceptions you might have.
 Newborn animals that you do not have room for on 
your farm immediately run away and are returned to 
the general supply. 
St a rt  P l a y e r
The start player marker does not switch automatically in 
this game. You must choose a specific action in order to 
receive the start player marker: it is the action space in 
the upper left hand corner of the game board.
Start player and 1 wood
Take the start player marker.  
Also take all the wood from this space  
and add it to your supply.
3 wood
Take all the wood from this space and  
add it to your supply.  
1 stone
Take all the stone from this space and  
add it to your supply.
2 stone
Take all the stone from this space and  
add it to your supply. 
unlimited
Fences
Add as many borders to your farm as you 
want. You can only use borders from your 
supply. Pay 1 wood for each border.
also
unlimited
Walls
Add as many borders to your farm as you 
want. You can only use borders from your 
supply. The first 2 borders are free and 
you must pay 2 stone for each additional 
border. 
6
The Action Spaces (game board)
Building Materials
Take 1 wood, 1 stone and 1 reed from 
the general supply and add them to your 
supply. (This is not a refill space.)
and
Expand
Expand
Take a farm expansion and add it to the 
left or right of your farm so that the 
edges match.  You also receive all of the 
yellow borders on the space, adding 
them to your supply. Important! You are 
not allowed to place those borders with 
this action.
once per action
Stall
Stalls
Build exactly 1 stall. This costs 3 stone 
and 1 reed. You can add it to any farm 
space without a building yet (so it can be 
built on a space with a feeding trough).
also
unlimited
Feeding Trough
Build 1 feeding trough for free. You can 
build additional feeding troughs for 
3 wood each. You can add them to any 
farm space without feeding troughs yet. 
Millpond
Take the reed from this space and add 
it to your supply. Also take all the sheep 
from this space and either keep them on 
your farm or let some (or all) run away.
Pigs and Sheep
Take all of the animals from this space and 
either keep them on your farm or let some 
(or all) run away.
Stables
Stall
unlimited
Stables
Pay either 5 wood or 5 stone (but not a 
combination of both such as 3 wood and 2 
stone, for example) and turn one Stall over to 
become a Stables. You can repeat this action 
as often as you want. Stables can hold up 
to 5 animals. (A stall with a feeding trough 
becomes a stable with a feeding trough.)
1 Special Building
1 Special Building
Special Building
There are two of these action spaces, 
meaning that up to 2 workers – including  
2 from the same player – can build a special 
building each round. Whenever you use this 
space, build no more than 1 of the special 
buildings available by paying the building 
costs shown on the building and then 
adding it to your farm. 
Cows and Pigs
Take all of the animals from this space and 
either keep them on your farm or let some 
(or all) run away.
Horses and Sheep
Take all of the animals from this space and 
either keep them on your farm or let some 
(or all) run away.
T h e A c ti on  S p a ces ( G a m e  B o a r d )
7
If  T h e  C om p onent s R u n Ou t
It can happen in some games that animals and building 
materials become scarce. For this reason, the game 
includes cardboard tiles representing larger quantities 
of individual goods. They can of course be exchanged for 
individual goods again at any time.
It is a different story with feeding troughs (of which 
there are 10), stall tiles (of which there are 4) and farm 
expansions (of which there are 4). Once these have all 
been claimed by the players, no more are available. 
Ga me E n d a n d  Scor ing
The game ends after 8 rounds. (You can tell what round 
you are in by the number of yellow borders left in the 
general supply, since one is added to the game each 
round.) Total your points at the end of the game. 
Count how many animals you have in total. Each animal is 
worth 1 point. This is your basic “animal” score. 
You then score bonus points according to the table on the 
sides of the box. 
 Note that you lose 3 points for each animal type you 
have 3 or fewer of. 
 After the 13th sheep, the 11th pig, the 10th cow or the 
9th horse, you score 1 extra point for each additional 
animal. 
The total of all of your bonus points is your “bonus points” 
score.
Each farm expansion where all 3 farm spaces have been 
used is worth 4 points.
	A farm space is used if it has a building on it, a feeding 
trough on it or is part of a fully enclosed pasture. 
	A farm space is unused if it is part of a pasture with 
unfinished or no borders.  
 Farm expansions that have not been fully used are 
worth no points. 
 Scoring farm expansions is independent of whether 
your starting farm board was fully used or not. 
Buildings are worth the points indicated on them. 
(Buildings are stalls, stables and special buildings.)
 The Storage Building points depend on how many 
building materials you have in your supply. 
Win ning  the  Game
The player with the most points is the winner. 
In the case of a tie, the player who was not the start 
player in round 1 is the winner. 
Notes On The Special Buildings
Half-Timbered House 
(Cost: 3 wood, 2 stone, 1 reed, Points: 5)
The Half-Timbered House is built over the cottage. You 
may not build the Half-Timbered House on a different 
farm space. You can keep up to 2 animals of the same 
type in the Half-Timbered House. 
Storage Building 
(Cost: 2 wood, 1 reed, Points: ½ per your own building 
material)
Only the building materials in your own supply count when 
scoring points. Do not round up or down. Half points are 
possible. The Storage Building cannot keep any animals. 
Shelter 
(Cost: 2 wood, 1 stone, Points: 0)
When you build the Shelter, immediately take 1 animal of 
your choice from the supply and place it in your Shelter 
or elsewhere on your farm. You can keep 1 animal in the 
Shelter. 
Open Stables 
(Cost: either 3 wood or 3 stone, Points: 2)
The Open Stables are stables but are built with the Special 
Building action space. When you build the Open Stables, 
return the stall tile it replaces to the general supply. That 
tile is again available to either player. When you build the 
Open Stables, immediately take either 1 horse or 1 cow 
from the supply and add it to your farm. You can keep up 
to 5 animals of the same type in the Open Stables. 
8
