English
Contents of the game 
• 1 Game Board – showing the historical airship Hinden-
burg and four fields for the airship cards. 
The lower part has space for up to 18 expansion cards.
• 4 Company Boards – represent the companies owned 
by the players. These have space for expansion cards 
in 6 coloured departments, 1 entrepreneur card, air-
ship cards and bonus chips.
• 18 Airship Cards – are the main source of winning 
points.
• 48 Expansion Cards – are for the expansion of the 
companies belonging to the players and are sub-
divided into 6 departments: Engineers (orange), 
Commanders (brown), Financiers (purple), Materials 
(blue), Hangars (yellow) and Engines (green).
• 1 “Change of Era” Card – indicates the change between 
“Era 1” and “Era 2” in the pile with the expansion 
cards.
• 4 Entrepreneur Cards – represent the players as entre-
preneurs from different countries.
• 24 Bonus Chips – 6 of each bearing the national flags 
of the players, helping them on their way by adding a 
score of 1 to their luck with the dice. Also, the back of 
these cards is used to mark participation in the 
construction of the “Hindenburg.”
• 9 Special Dice – used to throw for the cards:
3 white ones with scores 1•1•2•2•3•3
3 red ones with scores 2•3•3•4•4•5 and
3 black ones with scores 4•4•6•6•8•8.
• 1 Wooden Airship – indicates who has just built an air-
ship and gives its owner an additional score of 1 when 
rolling the dice.
• 1 Set of Game Instructions
Aim of the game 
The players build an airship company and attempt to 
score as many victory points as possible through the 
construction of airships. To do this the players have to 
acquire various expansion cards, such as Engineers, 
Financiers and Engines, which improve their prospects 
in airship construction.
The special feature of this game is that dice are thrown to 
win the cards. The expansion cards within a player’s own 
company determine which of the dice the player can use.
The card the player is trying to acquire, determines 
the colour and the number of dice required and the 
score that has to be achieved with them. The higher the 
number of dice the player has available, the greater the 
chances of achieving the required result.
Company board
The Hindenburg 
with its four 
construction 
phases. 
Fields for the 
airship cards
Fields for the 
expansion
cards
Game board.
Airship cards, front and back
Expansion cards, front and back
Entrepreneur cards, front and back
Change of Era
Bonus chips,
front and 
back
It took a long time until 
work could begin on 
the majestic airships. 
But now great leaps of 
progress are being taken 
– hangers are being built, 
engineers taken on and engines constructed.
After all the purpose 
of your own airship-
hangar is to build an 
impressive fleet of these 
giants with a view to 
winning this exciting 
board game.

Preparing the game 
The game board is placed in the middle. The 6 bonus 
chips for each of the players, as well as all nine dice and 
the wooden airship are placed at the ready beside the 
board.
Preparing the airship cards
The airship cards are sorted according to what is on the 
back.
The 6 airship cards with the dark-blue backs are shuffled 
and four of them are laid out face-up on the 4 corres-
ponding fields in the top part of the game board. Then 
the 6 airship cards with the medium-blue backs are shuf-
fled and four of them are placed face-up on top of the 
other 4 airship cards. After this, the 6 airship cards with 
the light-blue backs are shuffled and again four of them 
are placed face-up on top of the cards that have already 
been put down. The remaining 6 airship cards are taken 
out of the game.
Preparing the expansion cards
The expansion cards are sorted according to what is on 
the back.
The 24 expansion cards from “Era 2” (dark backs) are 
shuffled and placed face-down as a pile at the ready. 
The “Change of Era” is placed on top.
Then the 18 expansion cards from “Era 1” (medium blue 
backs) are shuffled and placed face-down on top of the 
“Change of Era” card.
The 6 Starter-Expansion cards (light backs) are shuffled 
and each player is dealt 1 card. The remaining cards are 
placed face-up on the game board in the appropriate 
fields. Then, additional expansion cards from the pile are 
placed face-up with them until a total of 6 expansion cards 
are on the board.
Business start-up for a player’s company
Each player is given a company board and the entrepre-
neur card for the country of his choice, which he places 
face-up (showing 1 white die) on the appropriate field on 
his board. Added to this is the starter-expansion card he 
has just been given. This is placed on the field with the 
appropriate-coloured surround.
Important! Each of the cards on the players’ company 
board indicate (on the lower edge of the card), which 
and how many dice are available to the player and 
with the help of which further cards can be obtained. 
A company with many cards is therefore more produc-
tive than one with fewer cards. 
At the start of the game, 
all players have 2 white 
dice at their disposal.
The pile with expansion cards
The 6 starter cards with light backs
The expansion cards are placed on 
fields with the same coloured border, 
as far left as possible.
Start player’s company board 
showing starting set-up.
Entrepreneur cards
Financiers
Engineers
Captains
Hangars
Engines
Materials
Airships
Bonus chips
Note: If fewer than 4 are playing, surplus material is taken out of 
the game.

Note: If the pile of expansion cards has been used up, the first step 
is omitted. The game continues with the second step.
The oldest player starts the game. He is given 3 of his 
bonus chips from the bank, which he places on the 
appropriate field on his board. All other players are given 
4 of their bonus chips.
The game 
Commencing with the starting player, all players take 
their turn in a clockwise direction.
Each player’s go is comprised of the following steps:
 1. Turning over an expansion card
 2. Acquisition of an expansion or airship card
The individual steps explained:
 1. Turning over an expansion card
The top card of the pile is turned over and placed in the 
appropriate row of the game board. It is placed on the 
first free field in this row (to the left). If the field is alrea-
dy occupied, the card is placed on the field to the right 
of it. If all 3 fields in any one row are full, the card from 
the left hand field is removed from the game and the two 
other cards shift along. The new card is now placed on 
the field that has been freed-up on the right hand edge of 
the board.
The “Change of Era” card appears
 If the “Change of Era” card appears when taking an 
expansion card, all players immediately turn their 
entrepreneur cards over, thus revealing the side with the 
white and the red dice. From this point on, each player 
now has an additional red die. The “Change of Era” 
card is taken out of the game.
 2. Acquisition of an expansion or airship card
Choosing a card
The player now chooses one of the expansion or airship 
cards on the board that he would like to acquire or “roll 
the dice for” (see “Acquiring a card”). In the case of the 
airships, there are several cards in a pile, only one of the 
top cards may be selected.
Acquiring a card
By throwing the dice the player attempts to acquire the 
chosen card. In order to do this he needs a specific score 
on the dice that he has to achieve with a certain combi-
nation of dice.
The required score is printed top right on each card. If 
the player achieves or betters the score – he wins the 
card. The top left of each card shows the dice to be used 
to achieve the score. 
The cards laid out on the player‘s board show which dice 
are currently at his disposal. The player must now select 
the appropriate dice from the general supply in accor-
dance with his options. If a player has a higher number 
Example: Here, a score of at least 5 
is required and this must be achieved 
with just 2 white dice. 
If a player has a third white die at his 
disposal, he may throw it along with 
the others and then select the two dice 
with the highest score.
Note: It does not matter which field the desired card is on. Howe-
ver, the player must at least have those dice at his disposal that are 
depicted on the top of the card.
Note: Before he rolls the dice, he must clearly state which card he 
is throwing for. After the dice have been cast, he cannot choose 
another card.
Every new expansion card 
is placed on a free field of 
the same colour as far to 
the left as possible.
If an expansion card is turned over 
for which all suitable fields are alrea-
dy occupied, the card is placed out of 
the game on the left hand side of the 
board. The other two cards shift to 
the left and the new card is placed on 
the vacated field.
If the player’s throw is successful, the 
card is placed on the player’s company 
board. From this point on, the player 
now has an (additional) red die at his 
disposal.

The cards on the player board show that the 
player has 3 white dice to use.
He uses all 3 and throws: 3 • 2 • 2.
He then chooses the two highest scoring dice 
because only 2 white dice can count towards the 
score.
The two together add up to 5. That is sufficient for 
the player to acquire the new card.
of appropriate dice at his disposal than required, he may 
throw these too.
Watch Out! A maximum of 3 dice of one colour can be 
used for each throw!
The player takes the dice in his hand and throws them. 
Only one throw is permitted. Then the player checks if 
the throw was successful.
The scores of those dice indicated on the card are added 
together.
If a player has thrown more dice of one colour than was 
necessary, he may now choose the dice of this colour, 
which achieve a higher score (see right).
Successful Attempt
If the total is the same or greater than the number 
required, the player has been successful and acquires the 
card, which he immediately places on the appropriately 
coloured field on his board. 
If he already has an expansion card on that field, he 
removes it (it is taken out of the game completely) and 
places the new card there.
If the player acquires an airship card, this too is placed 
on the appropriate field of the company board. 
If there are already airship cards on the board, the new 
one is placed on top. The player also receives the wooden 
airship.
If the total is less than the score required, the player can 
then use the following bonuses, if he has any.
• He may use a maximum of 1 bonus chip* as + 1 point.
• He may use the wooden airship 
+ 1 Pkt.
• He may use an “Engine” expansion card, 
which enables a bonus in the appropriate
dice colour of 
+ 1 or +2 points. 
* The bonus chip is put back into the general supply after use.
If the score is not achieved either without or by using 
bonuses, the attempt was unsuccessful.
Unsuccessful Attempt
If a player has not achieved the required score, he is 
given one of his bonus-chips from the general supply as 
compensation. (If, however, there are none left - he goes 
away empty-handed!)
Additional Go
Once a player has finished his go (no matter if successful 
or not), he can take another complete go immediately 
(both steps) if in exchange he pays 3 of his bonus chips 
back into the general supply. If he currently does not 
have sufficient chips or does not wish to use them for an 
extra go, the next player in a clockwise direction takes 
his turn.
Note: The dice are always taken from the general supply (9 dice).
Note: Several additional goes may be taken in succession provided 
that the player has sufficient bonus chips at his disposal.
The player wishes to throw for the “Engines” expansion card (see 
above). He has 5 white dice as well as the imaginary white dice of his 
engineer and 3 red dice to use.
In order to obtain the card by throwing he needs to also have a black 
die. Apart from this, 6 white dice is too many, since he may only use 
a maximum of 3 dice per colour per throw. He decides to exchange 
3 of his white dice (with the help of his expansion card “Materials”) 
for 1 black die. He now has the following dice at his disposal:
He throws using the 3 red dice and the black.
He doesn’t throw the white dice since his “imaginary” white die is 
showing the best result possible i.e. 3.
His score: 5 + 6 + 3 = 14
With a bonus-chip he 
achieves the requisite 
“15”. He takes the card 
and exchanges it for the 
old one.
Note: An overview of all the expansion cards and their func-
tions can be found on P.6.

The four construction phases of the ”Hindenburg“
If after acquiring an airship card, the game board field 
“D-LZ129 Hindenburg” becomes visible (one pile of 
airship cards has now been used up), the players may 
now immediately participate in the building of the 
”Hindenburg”. 
A construction phase can be obtained by throwing the 
dice in the same way as an airship card. The required 
dice combinations are to be found on the game board, 
along with the victory points awarded to the owner of 
the construction phase.
If the throw for a construction phase is successful, the 
player takes one of his bonus chips from the general 
supply next to the game board and uses it to mark the 
appropriate construction phase of the ”Hindenburg“. 
(If there is no bonus chip in the supply, he must take 
one from his board.) The player also receives the wooden 
airship. 
Attention: Immediately from this point on, a player 
only receives the wooden airship if he completes a 
construction phase of the Hindenburg! 
Two different victory point values are given for each 
construction phase. The higher value counts if the Hin-
denburg is completed, the lower counts if the game ends 
prior to completion.
End of the game and scoring
The game ends if following a turn:
a) only one card at the most is on each of the four air-
ship card fields, or 
b) if the fourth construction phase of the Hindenburg is 
completed. 
The game is then scored.
Scoring
All players now count their victory points – these are 
the numbers on the golden stars and are to be found on 
some expansion cards, all airship cards and the construc-
tion phases of the Hindenburg. The player with the 
highest victory point score wins.
In case of a draw, the player having built the most air-
ships wins. Here each construction phase of the Hinden-
burg is equivalent to one airship. 
Note of thanks – The author and publishers would like to thank 
the tireless testers:
Elke and Jürgen Hübler, Andrea Obermeier, Christian Schwab, 
Hedwig Gappa-Langer, Joachim Langer, Karen Seyfarth, Andreas 
Maszuhn, Silvio de Pecher and ”La Tana dei Goblin“, Kai Eimer, 
Christoph von Engeln, Sigurd Göbel, Mathias Jäger, Jürgen Ja-
nik, René Parrot, Ursula Töpler and those not listed in the above.
Note: Throwing for a construction phase of the Hindenburg is just 
as much a player turn as acquiring an airship or expansion card.
Each construction phase can only be completed once.
Note: Victory points are awarded for all cards with a golden star 
(i.e. all airship cards and some expansion cards. Players are also 
awarded victory points for completed construction phases of the 
Hindenburg. Here, the higher scores are awarded if the Hinden-
burg is completed.
However, if all four phases are not completed, the lower victory 
point scores apply.
If the first pile with airships is used up, 
the picture of the Hindenburg appears. 
From this point players can throw for the 
construction phases.
Back of the USA-
player’s bonus chip.
This is used for marking 
purposes and shows 
which phase he has 
completed.
This card is worth 
3 victory points
This card is worth 
2 victory points
Note: During the game, some expansion cards on the company 
board will be replaced with new and better ones. The older 
card is removed from the game, even if it is an expansion card 
bearing victory points.

Overview and effect of individual 
expansion cards
The card on the left provides its owner with 1 
white, 1 red and 1 black dice. 
The card on the right provides 1 white die. In 
addition, if the player still holds it at the end of 
the game it is worth 3 victory points.
The card on the right provides 1 white die. 
The card on the right provides 1 black die.
The card on the left provides 1 black die as well 
as 2 bonus chips as a one-off
The card on the right provides 1 white die as well 
as 2 bonus chips as a one-off.
The card on the left provides 1 imaginary red die 
with a score of 4
The card on the right provides 1 imaginary black 
die with a score of 7.
The “Hangar” expansion cards are marked with a yellow border. 
These too offer their owner 1 or 2 additional dice.
The “Engineers” expansion cards are marked with an orange border. 
These offer their owner 1 additional, imaginary die with a fixed score. Of course this 
die cannot be thrown so it does not count towards the limit of 3 dice maximum per colour, 
per throw. This die can, however, be used in an exchange (via a “Materials” expansion card).
The card on the left gives a bonus of +1 per 
throw, regardless of the colours involved.
The card on the right gives a bonus of +1 on 
every throw involving at least one red die.
The “Engines” expansion cards are marked with a green border.
They give their owner a bonus of +1 or +2 on throws in which dice of a certain colour 
are involved. There are also engines where the bonus counts for every colour of dice. 
A white symbol stands for white die, a red symbol for red die, a black symbol for black 
die and a grey symbol for any die at all.
The card on the left allows its owner to exchange 
3 of his white dice for 2 red dice.
The card on the right allows its owner to ex-
change 2 of his red dice for 1 black die.
The “Materials” expansion cards are marked with a blue border. 
These give their owner the opportunity to exchange his available dice prior to each throw. 
In this way a player can obtain dice, which his own expansion cards do not allow. This 
exchange is only ever valid for the current throw. In each turn the player can decide anew 
whether to use this exchange.
The “Financiers” expansion cards are marked with a purple border. 
These offer their owner 1 to 3 additional dice.
In addition, there are also cards for each department, which are worth victory points, if a 
player still has them at the end of the game.
The “Captains” expansion cards are marked with a brown border. 
These too offer their owner 1 or 2 additional dice. In addition a player receives 1 to 3 
bonus chips for a Captain (once only, when the card is won with the dice). The owner of 
the card takes the appropriate number of his bonus-chips from the supply, if available.