At the heart of the Mediterranean, rival cities seek wealth and glory. 
The most talented architects in ancient Greece stand ready to achieve this goal. Build housing, 
temples, markets, gardens and barracks, so you can grow your city and ensure it triumphs over 
the others. Raise its prestige with harmonious planning that conforms to specific rules, and 
enhance it by building plazas. 
Stone is an essential resource, so make sure you do not neglect it. You’ll need enough quarries 
so you can build higher up, making your city stretch towards the sky.
Overview and goal of the game
25 min
8+
®

SETUP
CONTENTS
 
Take the City tiles that correspond to the number of players 
(refer to the backs of the tiles).
 
Create 11 equal stacks of tiles, placed face down (see on the right). 
4 players
2+ / 3+ / 4
3 players
2+ / 3+
2 players
2+
4 starting tiles
40 Stone cubes
61 City tiles
Chief Architect marker
1 scorepad
4 Player aids
Note: For 2- or 3-player games, you can make the game longer by using all the 
tiles. If so, create 19 stacks (for a 2-player game), or 15 stacks (for a 3-player 
game).
3 players: 
4 tiles/stack
2 players:
3 tiles/stack
4 players:
5 tiles/stack

Example of setup for 4 players.
Tip: At the start of each round, there must always 
be 2 more tiles in the Construction Site than the 
number of Architects. Here, 6 tiles are laid out for 
4 players.
 
Place the rest of the tiles face up in the center of the table, forming a line . 
This line of tiles will be called the ‘Construction Site’ from now on.
Each player, known as an Architect, takes a starting tile and places it in front of them . 
The Architect who most recently climbed a hill takes the Chief Architect marker  .
Working around clockwise from the first player, each Architect takes the number of Stones indicated below  :
The remaining Stones are placed nearby . 	
	
1st player
2nd player
3rd player
4th player

PLAYING THE GAME
 
Play continues in a clockwise direction, starting with the Chief Architect.
The Architects take turns until there is only one City tile left in the Construction Site (see: Supplying the 
Construction Site, p.7).
 
Starting with the Chief Architect, the Architects take turns performing the following two actions:
Take a tile
Add a tile to their City
On their turn, the Architect chooses the tile they wish to take 
and adds it to their City. 
 
They must pay 1 Stone for each tile that precedes it in the 
Construction Site.
If you take the first tile, you do not need to pay anything. 
Spent Stones are returned to the reserve. 
Max has chosen the 4th tile, 
so he spends 3 Stones.
Take a tile
Important: The last tile in the Construction Site is not played.
Architect's turn
Note: If an Architect has run 
out of Stones, they must take the 
first tile in the Construction Site.

A City tile is made up of 3 Construction hexes.
There are 3 types of Construction:
Quarries, which allow you to gain Stones;
Plazas, which multiply the value of your Districts;
Districts, which can give you points if correctly placed.
Max places his City tile on the 2nd level, 
covering 2 Quarry hexes. He immediately 
takes 2 Stones from the reserve.
x 1
x 2
x 3
The selected tile must be added to your City. You can 
place it either on the 1st level or a higher level.
A tile placed on the 1st level must border another of 
your City tiles along at least one edge. 
A tile placed on a higher level must be constructed on 
top of 3 hexes (it cannot be placed above an empty 
space) and must cover hexes on at least 2 different 
tiles. 
Quarries
Quarries do not score any points at the end 
of the game, but they allow you to gain 
Stones. When an Architect covers a Quarry 
with another tile, they take 1 Stone from the 
reserve. 
Plazas
Plazas will multiply the points that you gain 
for Districts of the same type at the end of the 
game. The multipliers are represented by the 
stars. If you have several matching Plazas, their 
stars are cumulative.
A Plaza does not need to border Districts of the 
same type.
+
Add the tile to their City
Note: You begin with a Housing Plaza 
on your starting tile.
Note: A hex that is covered by another tile no 
longer counts towards your City.
Tip: you can find the quantities of each Construction 
hexes for 2 / 3 / 4 players on the player aid.

Districts
There are 5 different types of District.
A District can be constructed freely but to gain points, each one must meet two conditions: 
The placement condition for its type;
At least one Plaza of that color in your City (see: Plazas, p. 5).
A District constructed on a higher level of your City can earn you more points.
The value of a District is defined by its construction height: a District built on the 1st level would be 
worth 1 point, on the 2nd level 2 points, on the 3rd level 3 points, etc. (see: Calculating victory points, p.7).
Placement conditions for Districts
Houses
The citizens of your city like to live together in one large 
neighborhood. You only earn points for Houses that are part 
of your largest group of adjacent Houses. 
Markets
Merchants don’t like competition, so want to be kept separate 
from other markets. 
A Market must not be adjacent to any other Market.
Barracks
Soldiers keep watch over your city’s borders. 
Barracks must be placed on the edge of your city.
Gardens
Parks always enhance your city. 
There are no placement conditions on Gardens.
Temples
Priests attract followers from the surrounding area.
Temples must be completely surrounded. 
Value of Districts
Important: In contrast to the Districts, Plazas constructed 
on higher levels do not earn you more points. 

Using the scorepad, each Architect calculates 
their victory points for each type of District in the 
following way:
add up the Values of all your Districts that 
respect their placement condition;
add up the number of stars on the matching 
Plazas;
multiply these two numbers together.
You also gain 1 additional victory point for each 
Stone in your supply at the end of the game.
The player with the most points wins the game. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the most 
Stones wins. 
Max adds up the victory points for his Housing tiles. In his 
largest group of Housing tiles, there are 5 Housing Districts 
on the 1st level and 2 Housing Districts on the 2nd level. 
Their combined value is therefore 9 (5 x 1 + 2 x 2 = 9). 
There are 3 stars on the matching Plazas, so he earns 
3 x 9 = 27 points. 
End of the game
Supplying the construction site
When there is only one tile left in the Construction Site, complete the following steps: 
Place the remaining tile in the first position, then take one stack of tiles and place the tiles face up next to each 
other, to replenish the Construction Site.
The Chief Architect marker passes to the player to the left.
Play continues around, starting with the new Chief Architect.
If there are no more stacks for you to replenish the Construction Site, proceed to the End of the game.
Calculating victory points
The game ends when there is only one tile left in the Construction Site and all the stacks have been used. 
Important: The last City tile is not played. 
Tip: You can use our score calculator 
on the Gigamic Adds app.

Game designer: Jules Messaud / Illustrations: Pauline Détraz
Keep this information 
and address for future 
reference: 12-2021
ZAL Les Garennes
 F 62930 WIMEREUX 
FRANCE
www.gigamic.com
® & © Gigamic 2022
WARNING! Not suitable 
for children under 3 
years. Contains small 
parts which could be 
swallowed. 
A big thank you goes to Benoit Turpin for having 
been the first one to believe in this game, and for 
his precious comments. Thank you to Raoul for all 
the great games, and to Louison and Luce for their 
support and their love. Thank you to Delphine for 
having believed in this project and for bringing it to 
fruition. Thank you also to MALT, and to Lola, Gaspard, 
Martin and Jocelyn for all their testing and feedback.
Imported in USA by: 
Hachette Boardgames 
USA, P.O. Box 847, 
Eugene, OR 97440, USA
Imported in UK by: 
Hachette Boardgames 
UK ltd Carmelite 
House 50 victoria 
Embankment London 
EC4Y ODZ
 
IIf you wish to increase the difficulty level, you can play the variants below.
The setup and gameplay remain unchanged. Each variant adds an additional placement condition to a type of District. 
If your District meets this additional condition, its points are doubled; if it does not, then it scores normally.
These additional constraints do not replace the usual placement conditions. In order to score points, a District must 
always respect its original placement condition and your City must have at least one Plaza of that same type.
You can use several of the variants within the same game, but we suggest that you first play each variant separately.
Houses
If your group of Houses Districts has a 
value of 10 or more, its points are doubled.
Markets
If your Market District is next to a Market 
Plaza, its points are doubled.
Barracks
If your Barracks has 3 or 4 empty spaces 
adjacent to it, its points are doubled.
Temples
If your Temple is built on a higher level, 
its points are doubled.
Gardens
If your Garden is adjacent to a lake 
(an empty space that is completely 
surrounded), its points are doubled.
= 12
VARIANTS