I received my new cauldron today. 
Finally, my laboratory is complete!
For days, I have been gathering and drying ingredients in 
anticipation. What shall I mix first? I have a strong hunch 
about raven’s feather and mandrake root. And they say you 
can never go wrong with a toad.
But then, what do they know? This is my laboratory, my 
research! Once I have published my theories, the others will 
be coming to me! I am determined to prove that I have the 
greatest mind that ever studied alchemy.
So now, I shall light my fire, for it is time to get to work. 
Knowledge, wealth, and fame can all be found in the murky 
depths of the cauldron.
Overview
Two to four players take the role of alchemists competing to 
discover the secrets of their mystical art. Points can be earned 
in various ways, but most points are earned by publishing 
theories – correct theories. Therein lies the problem.
Players gain knowledge by mixing ingredients and testing the 
results using a card-scanning app on a tablet or smartphone. They 
deduce how to make potions that they can sell to adventurers. 
Gold pieces can be spent on magical artifacts, which are very 
powerful but also very expensive. 
Players' reputations go up and down as their theories are 
published or disproven. At the end of the game, reputation is 
converted to points. Points are also scored for artifacts and 
grants. The player with the most points wins.

Ah! A new student. How delightful! I’m always glad to 
meet a someone whose heart burns with the fire of science.
Are you ready to uncover nature’s mysteries? Ready to 
make discoveries that will earn respect and admiration? 
Well, my young friend, this is a long journey. It will 
require perseverance and a keen mind. Let us begin simply, 
by mixing a potion from ingredients we can find on a walk 
through the forest. See? Here is a mushroom. And here is 
a toad. Now all you need is a fully equipped alchemical 
laboratory. I’ll wait while you set one up.
The Card Reader
To play Alchemists, you will need the Alchemists app on your 
smartphone or tablet. To get the app, scan this QR code. 
Or enter cge.as/ald into your web browser. The app is free. 
You've already paid for the game.
(To play without the app, see the facing page.)
Only one device is necessary. Players can share.
Once you have downloaded the app, launch it and tap the 
 button. Please enter this four-letter 
code: DEMO.
Mixing Potions
Ready? Wonderful! Now toss these ingredients into your 
cauldron and stir until the substance changes color.
Alchemists mix potions by combining two different 
ingredients. Tap the 
 button and scan 
these two cards with the camera:
You may have to adjust your angle to get both cards in the 
picture. When the app recognizes the cards, they show up 
in the bottom half of the screen. When the app displays the 
correct ingredients, tap 
Congratulations on mixing your first potion! If you 
followed my instructions correctly, you mixed 
, which 
is a healing potion.
How is it possible that two seemingly ordinary ingredients 
could combine to make something extraordinary? Well, it’s 
time for you to learn a little theory.
Alchemicals
Each ingredient corresponds to exactly 1 alchemical. An 
alchemical has a red aspect, a green aspect, and a blue 
aspect, and each aspect can be positive or negative.
When two alchemicals combine, matching aspects amplify, 
and they make one of these potions: 
 HEALING
 POISON
 SPEED
PARALYSIS
 WISDOM
 INSANITY
To figure out what potion is created, look for a match in sign 
and color between a big circle on one alchemical and a 
little circle on the other:
Examples:
Pop Quiz:
I shall reveal the true nature of scorpion and bird claw. 
Now, can you tell me what potion you will get when you 
combine the two?
To check your answer, scan this picture: 
Deduction
Mixing potions is easy once you know which alchemical 
corresponds to which ingredient. But we don’t know! Isn’t 
that wonderful? So many mysteries waiting to be solved. 
And so much grant money available for our research.
In your first experiment, you discovered that mushroom and 
toad combine to make 
. What does this tell you about 
their alchemicals?
There are only 4 ways to make 
We don't know which pair of alchemicals we have, and we 
don't know which ingredient corresponds to which half of 
the pair. But we do know that mushroom and toad cannot be 
any of these four alchemicals:
because these do not have the 
 symbol. Their red aspect 
is negative.
Basic Principles of Alchemy
Basic Principles of Alchemy

To be a successful alchemist, you need to keep an orderly 
notebook.
The results triangle is for recording the results of your 
experiment. Take a 
 token and put it at the intersection 
of mushroom and toad.
The deduction grid is for recording what your experiment 
tells you. Your experiment eliminates 4 possibilities for 
mushroom and toad, as shown. In general, you will have 
to proceed by eliminating possibilities until only one 
possibility remains.
Your deduction grid is for your personal use. You can make 
notes using any system you want.
The Neutral Potion
Each alchemical has exactly one alchemical that 
neutralizes it. When you combine a neutralizing pair, you 
get a potion that has no magical effects, although it does 
make a tasty soup.
If two alchemicals have no matching aspects, they neutralize 
each other to make a neutral potion 
Examples:
Do not become discouraged when you mix a neutral 
potion. Your experiment has actually given you a lot of 
information. Now you just need to figure out how to use it.
Things to know:
•	 Each alchemical has exactly one alchemical that 
neutralizes it (It makes a red, blue, or green potion with 
any other alchemical.).
•	 An alchemical's neutralizer has the opposite sign for 
each aspect (each color).
•	 On your deduction grid, alchemicals that neutralize 
each other are in adjacent rows. Note the horizontal 
bands of light and dark shading.
Pop Quiz:
I have already revealed the alchemical for bird claw. Find 
out what happens when you mix bird claw and toad. Then 
tell me: What alchemical must correspond to toad?
And now, my young alchemist, your fundamental training 
is complete. Well, complete enough. I have to get back to 
work.
I wish you much success in all your endeavors, and if you 
should ever happen to publish an important discovery, be 
sure to give proper credit to the alchemist who taught you 
everything you know.
If for some reason you want to play Alchemists without using an electronic device, one person 
can play gamemaster and act as the card reader. The gamemaster can use the box lid to keep the 
gamemaster triangle hidden from the other players.
The gamemaster mixes up the 8 ingredient tiles and inserts them secretly and randomly into the 8 
slots. The gamemaster does not need to worry about the actual alchemicals. The result of mixing any 
two ingredients is given by the triangle.
The gamemaster handles every situation that normally requires the card reader. For example, 
whenever a player needs to “scan” ingredient cards, the player passes the cards face down to the 
gamemaster. The gamemaster looks up the resulting potion and then gives the answer that the card 
reader would give in that situation. The gamemaster can then put the ingredients in the discard 
pile.
If the battery on your smartphone dies and you want to use the gamemaster triangle to finish your 
game, just convert the four-letter game code to an ordered list of 8 ingredients using this simple 
algorithm: ... Actually, on second thought, maybe we should keep that information to ourselves. But if 
you know the battery is dying, someone who isn't playing can take the role of gamemaster by peeking 
at the answers in the app and setting up the gamemaster triangle accordingly.
Gamemaster Exam:
This gamemaster triangle is set up so you can “scan” all three examples on this page and give the 
same answers that the card reader would.
The Gamemaster Board
gamemaster 
triangle
ingredient tiles
Selection by Hand
The card reader gives you the option to select ingredients by 
hand. Instead of scanning cards, you will hide the card reader 
from the other players and tap on the two ingredients you 
are mixing. Everything else works the same.
Web-Based Card Reader
At alchemists.czechgames.com, you can find a web-based 
version of the app. On the web, cards are selected by hand.

Setup
Setup
 Master or 
 Apprentice?
You can play Alchemists either as masters or apprentices. 
For your first game, we recommend you play the apprentice 
variant. A few of the rules are simpler, and the academic 
conferences are more forgiving. Even so, it offers the full 
range of possibilities.
A few details of setup depend on which variant you are 
playing. 
Two, Three, or Four Players?
This side of the board is for a four-player game. The setup 
for two or three players is the same, except you use the other 
side of the board.
adventurer 
adventurer tiles
Shuffle the adventurer tiles face 
down and randomly remove one from 
the game. (Put it back in the box 
without looking at it.) Turn up the top 
adventurer and set the stack by the 
adventurer space.
Ah, but the craft of alchemy is about more than mixing 
potions. Alchemists seek knowledge, of course, but what 
they truly value is prestige. Making your mark on the 
world will not be easy. You need to publish before your 
colleagues do, expose the flaws in their theories, and get 
the powerful artifacts before they are all sold out. You 
see, you are not the only alchemist in town.
Buy Artifact 
Sell Potion 
Transmute Ingredient 
conference tiles
Use this side 
 for the apprentice 
variant or this side 
 for the master 
variant. The conference tiles go into 
the adventurer stack. The one marked 
 goes under the top two 
adventurers. The one marked 
 
goes above the bottom adventurer.
Test on 
Student action 
Publish Theory 
Debunk Theory 
When you mix a potion, 
discard only one of the 
ingredients. A colleague 
chooses it randomly. 
Your next artifact costs 
2 gold less. After that, 
artifacts cost you 1 gold less.
Discount Card
On an action space where 
you have at least one cube, 
you can perform that action 
again after everyone is done. 
Can’t be used to 
Sell Potions.
Boots of Speed
artifact row

Gain 5 points of reputation.
Amulet of Rhetoric
Draw 7 ingredients.
You no longer draw 
ingredients when choosing 
play order.
Witch’s Trunk
When you publish or 
endorse a theory, gain 
2 additional points of 
Seal of Authority
During the exhibition: 
Set aside ingredients from 
potions you demonstrate 
successfully. When scoring 
artifacts, this cap is worth 
1 point for each type of 
ingredient set aside.
Feather in Cap
At the end of the game, 
Wisdom Idol is worth 1 point 
for each seal you have on a 
correct theory.
Wisdom Idol
Pay 1 to 8 gold pieces. 
Gain that many points of 
Altar of Gold
order markers
Each player sets one flask 
here for use as an order 
marker.
artifact cards
Divide the cards into decks 
, and 
. Shuffle each deck 
independently. Draw 3 cards at 
random from deck 
 and place them 
in the artifact row. Draw 3 cards at 
random from decks 
 
and place them in rows beside the 
game board. The selected artifacts are 
all face up. Players may look at them 
at any time. Return the rest of the 
artifact cards to the box. They will not 
be needed this game.
Forage Ingredient 
ingredients row
paralyzed 
alchemist’s 
order space
ingredient 
cards
Shuffle the ingredients 
and deal 5 face up to the 
ingredients row. Leave 
the rest of the deck on the 
board face down.
order space
rewards for choosing this 
hospital
gold pieces
result tokens
unused cubes 
end-of-round 
business reminder
conference 
Drink Potion 
 
 
 
When you mix a potion, 
discard only one of the 
ingredients. A colleague 
chooses it randomly. 
Your next artifact costs 
2 gold less. After that, 
artifacts cost you 1 gold less.
Discount Card
On an action space where 
you have at least one cube, 
you can perform that action 
again after everyone is done. 
Can’t be used to 
Sell Potions.
Boots of Speed
favor cards
Shuffle the favor cards and 
place them here, face down.
Exhibition Board
Set this board aside for now. You will use it in the final 
round.

Player’s Laboratory
 
Action Cubes
The number of action cubes depends on the number of 
players.
•	 two players: 6 cubes.
•	 three players: 5 cubes.
•	 four players: 4 cubes.
Leave extra cubes in the box.
In all cases, you use only 3 action cubes in the 
first round. Put your remaining cube or cubes on 
the adventurer stack. This reminds you to take the full 
complement at the end of the first round.
Player board
YOUR GRANTS 
GO HERE
EACH PLAYER STARTS 
WITH 2 GOLD PIECES
THESE SPACES ARE FOR DISPLAYING 
POTIONS YOU HAVE MADE
Public Section
The types of potions you have already made, your grants, 
your artifacts, your number of gold pieces, and the number 
and types of cards in your hand are always public knowledge.
Private Section
The types of ingredients and favor cards in your hand, the types of seals 
you play, the ingredients in your experiments, and your deductions from 
results are always kept secret from the other players. This information 
can be hidden behind your laboratory screen.
Ingredient cards
Apprentice Variant: Each player draws 
3 ingredients from the top of the deck.
Master Variant: Each player draws 
2 ingredients from the top of the deck.
Bid cards
Assembling Your Laboratory
Custodian
Place one cube on this card. 
For this round, that cube is a 
special Drink Potion action 
that you may use before the 
Sell Potions action space.
Play when you declare actions.
Each player draws 2 favor cards, 
chooses one to keep and one to 
discard.
Merchant
If you sell first, gain 1 gold 
piece. If not, you may sell 
any of the three potions, as 
though you were first.
Play when it is your turn 
to sell a potion.
Seals
Laboratory cauldron
The cauldron can also go on the left or right side. 
It can even stand alone.
results 
triangle
deduction 
grid
screen
The tab at the 
bottom of the 
cauldron is a shelf 
for your cards. 
Do not tear it out.

At the start of the game, launch the app, select the master 
or apprentice variant, and tap the 
 
button. The app will randomly assign each ingredient 
a different alchemical. (So if you were hoping to gain an 
advantage by remembering the answers from the previous 
game, you are out of luck.)
Each randomization has a four-letter code. Write this down. 
If you need to complete the game on a different device (for 
example, if your first card reader runs out of power), just 
tap 
 and type the code into the new 
device. It will use the same randomization as the first device. 
This system also enables you to play with two or more card 
readers if you wish.
Theory Board
Initializing the Card Reader
conflict tokens
Used only in the master variant. For the apprentice 
variant, leave these in the box.
Starting Player Token
Give the starting player token to the player who was 
most recently in a laboratory.
reputation markers
Each player puts one flask on 
the 10 space to mark initial 

grants
Arrange them as shown.
alchemical tokens

The Round
The Round
Choosing Play Order
You start your day with a leisurely 
walk through the forest, looking for 
interesting things to grind up in your 
laboratory. Or perhaps you spend 
some time doing favors for people 
around town ... in exchange for 
favors later, of course.
Beginning with the player with 
the starting player marker and 
proceeding clockwise around the 
table, each player chooses an order 
space. Lower spaces give you more 
cards but leave you at a disadvantage 
when resolving actions. 
When it is your turn to choose, place 
your order marker on one of the 
unoccupied order spaces and draw 
the indicated cards.
Two players cannot choose the same space, and no one can 
choose the green space at the very bottom. That's a special 
space for alchemists who drank a 
 potion on the previous 
round. See page 10. In a 2-player game, you cannot choose 
the space labeled 
Drawing Ingredients
Draw the indicated number of ingredients from 
the top of the deck. Do not take any of the face-
up cards. Those are available only from the 
Forage Ingredient action space.
Drawing Favor Cards
These represent favors that the townsfolk owe 
you. Draw the indicated number of favor cards 
from the top of the deck. 
If either deck runs out of cards, shuffle its discard pile to 
make a new deck.
Favor cards give you a single-use advantage during some 
part of the round. They will tell you when they can be used. 
Some favor cards say “play immediately”. These must be 
played as soon as you draw them. Cards are explained in 
detail at the end of this rulebook. After you play a favor card, 
it goes to the discard pile.
Getting Nothing
Sometimes (usually when confer-
ence deadlines are approaching) 
you need to get things done 
quickly. In that case, forget ingredients, forget favors. You 
just eat a quick breakfast and run off to get your work 
done.
If you choose this space, you draw no cards, but at least you 
will get to go first ... or maybe second.
Paying Gold
Sometimes you don’t even have 
time to make breakfast. Instead, 
you buy fresh rolls from the baker 
and eat them on your way through town.
To choose this space, you must pay 1 gold piece. If you don't 
have the gold, you can't choose this space.
On this space you draw no cards, but you are guaranteed to 
go first. Yes, sometimes it is that important.
Play Order
For the rest of the round, play order will be determined by 
the order of the markers on the order spaces. 
The starting player marker will have no further effect this 
round. At the end of the round, it will be passed to the left 
and the next round will have a different starting player.
Declaring Actions
Once all players have chosen an order space (and drawn 
their cards), it is time to declare actions. The player lowest 
on the order spaces must declare his or her actions first, 
followed by the next lowest player, and so on. Players who 
chose the higher spaces (with fewer cards) will have the 
advantage of seeing what other players are doing before they 
declare their own actions. When it is your turn to declare 
actions, you declare all your actions at once.
Place your action cubes on the actions you want to take 
this round. Different spaces have different requirements as 
illustrated below.
Each player has their own row, corresponding to their 
position on the order spaces. If you are lowest on the 
order spaces, you declare actions first and place your cubes 
in the bottom row at each action space. The next player 
places cubes in the row just above the bottom row, and so 
on. The player highest on the order spaces will go last and 
place cubes in the highest row. In a 2-player game, the rows 
marked 
 are not used.
In the illustration on the left side of this page, Blue is lowest. 
He must declare actions first. Red goes next. Note that in the 
illustration at the bottom of this page, Red's cubes are always 
in the middle row. Green is highest. She declares actions once 
she knows everything that Blue and Red plan to do. Her cubes 
go in the first row.
First Round Exceptions
In the first round, you are allowed only 
3 action cubes. In later rounds, you may 
use your full set of cubes. (The number of cubes depends on 
the number of players. See page 6.)
The three actions marked with this symbol are not 
available in the first round.
Resolving Action Spaces
Each action space is resolved in order, clockwise around the 
board, as shown.
RESOLVE THE ACTION SPACES IN THIS ORDER.
The game is played in six rounds. At the beginning of each round, players choose their play order. Then players declare 
all their actions for the round. During the round, actions are evaluated in order, clockwise around the board.
FIRST ACTION REQUIRES 1 CUBE. 
A SECOND ACTION REQUIRES 
1 MORE.
ACTION REQUIRES 2 
CUBES. ONLY ONE ACTION 
ALLOWED.
THREE ACTIONS ARE 
POSSIBLE HERE. EACH 
REQUIRES 1 CUBE. 
FIRST ACTION REQUIRES 1 CUBE. 
A SECOND ACTION REQUIRES 
2 MORE. 

On each action space, players take their actions in order, 
beginning with the player on the highest occupied row. 
When you take your action, remove your cube. (Or remove 
both cubes if the action requires 2 cubes.) Once everyone 
on the action space has taken their first action, players with 
two actions may take their second, in the same order.
Once all players have taken 
their actions in the order shown, 
they move on to evaluate the 
next action space.
Declining Your Action
When it is your turn to perform an action, you may 
change your mind and decline your action instead. Pick 
up your cube (or cubes) and put it on the unused cubes 
. At the end of the round, every pair of unused 
cubes will allow you to draw 1 favor card. See page 16 for 
details.
Forage for Ingredient
To find the ingredient you want, 
sometimes you have to spend a 
little extra time in the forest. Be 
sure to bring a stout walking 
stick to ward off wolves, bears, 
and rival alchemists.
When it is your turn to forage 
for an ingredient, you may take 
either 1 face-up ingredient from the row or draw 1 random 
ingredient from the top of the deck. Cards in the row are 
not replaced, so players who play later may have a more 
limited choice. Once all the face-up cards are gone, your 
only choice is to draw from the top of the deck. (Or you can 
always decline the action and move your cube to the unused 
cubes space.)
Once all players have finished their actions here, remove any 
remaining face-up ingredients from the board and put them 
in the discard pile face down. A new set of 5 face-up 
ingredients will be dealt at the beginning of the next round.
Transmute Ingredient
This venerable alchemist has 
discovered how to turn ingre-
dients into gold. He’ll be happy 
to share the gold if you’ll supply 
the ingredients. Maybe he’s too 
old to forage for himself. 
Or maybe he just dislikes getting 
up early enough to beat the other 
foragers.
When you play this action, discard 1 ingredient and take 1 
gold piece from the bank. On this space, going first does not 
give you any advantage.
Whenever you discard ingredients, no one else gets to see 
what you discarded. The discard pile should always be face 
down.
Tip: This is a quick way to get the gold piece you really 
need ... or an inefficient way to get the two gold pieces you 
really, really need. Skilled alchemists, however, will make 
most of their money by earning grants and selling potions 
to adventurers.
Buy Artifact
Nothing says “success” like a 
shelf full of expensive hardware.
When you buy an artifact, take 
one of the cards in the artifact 
row and pay the cost in the upper 
left corner. Keep your artifacts 
on the table in front of you where 
everyone can see them.
Immediately after 
a colleague sells or tests 
a potion, you may look at 
one of the ingredients. 
Choose it randomly. 
Periscope
COST
EFFECT
VICTORY POINTS 
AT THE END OF 
THE GAME
Early artifacts have effects that last the entire game. If an 
effect does not specify that it is limited to once per round, 
then you can use it every time it applies. 
Other artifacts have an immediate effect that can be used 
only once. Using this effect is part of your Buy Artifact 
action.
Most artifacts are worth victory points at the end of the 
game. Some have variable victory points that are explained 
on the card.
At the beginning of the game, the artifacts row has only 
artifacts labeled 
. The artifact row is not replenished, not 
even if they have all been taken. During the conference at 
the end of round 3 (and again at the end of round 5) any 
remaining artifacts will be discarded and the next three 
artifacts will be placed in the row. Until then, the 
 artifacts are kept face up on the table so that players 
can read them and plan ahead.
Actions Available in the First Round
Actions Available in the First Round
Five actions are available to you in the first round. We will cover these first.

Experiments
The town council has banned tests on animals because 
of the ... issues ... arising from the winged pig outbreak. 
So now alchemists have to test their potions on people. 
Fortunately, the town has a good supply of alchemy 
students. And in the worst case, you can always try your 
potion yourself.
The final two actions of the round give you the most 
information. This is where you mix two ingredients and see 
what happens. The procedure for mixing a potion is the 
same whether you are Testing on a Student or Drinking the 
Potion yourself:
1.	 Choose 2 of your ingredient cards to mix.
2.	 Place them in your cauldron so that no one else can see 
them.
3.	 Tap 
depending on the action space.
4.	 Scan the cards and tap 
 when the reader 
recognizes them.
5.	 Show the result to the other players. Yes, they will learn 
which potion you made, but they will not know which 
ingredients you used.
6.	 Put the corresponding result token in your results 
triangle.
7.	 Put the corresponding result token on your player 
board, to remind the other players that you have made 
that potion (unless you already have that token there). 
This is mandatory. Potions you have mixed are public 
knowledge.
8.	 Discard the ingredients you used. Ingredients are always 
discarded face down. 
(Even if your group has agreed to use the card reader's 
“select by hand” option, you still put the two ingredients in 
the cauldron. That way you won't forget to discard them.)
The major difference between the two actions is what 
happens when you mix a negative potion. The effects of the 
, and 
 potions are quite unpleasant. That's why 
alchemists have students.
Test on Student
A student will drink anything 
for science. Until he gets sick. 
Then he’ll drink anything for 
science and 1 gold piece.
The first player to use this action 
space performs the experiment 
as described above. 
Players who experiment later 
may be at a disadvantage. Once 
the student drinks a negative potion, his zeal for science 
is considerably diminished. For everyone playing after the 
player who mixed the negative potion, the action costs 1 
gold piece. (You always have the option of declining the 
action and moving your cube to the unused cubes space. 
If you cannot pay the student's fee, then you must decline 
the action.)
Every round you get a new student – one whose heart burns 
with the fire of science, one who doesn't know about what 
happened to the previous student. So the first experiments 
of the round are always free until someone mixes a negative 
potion.
Yellow goes first. The first player never 
has to pay, so Yellow tests on the 
student for free, making 
That's good news for Blue. It means 
he doesn't have to pay either. He 
mixes 
The student is still happy. Green 
doesn't have to pay anything either. 
She mixes 
. Now the student is 
unhappy, but Green reminds him that 
she told him the risks and there's nothing he can do about it.
Now it's Red's turn. If she wants to test a potion on the student, 
she must pay 1 gold piece to the bank. She does so and mixes 
. It really doesn't matter what she mixes. Yellow and Green 
will still have to pay 1 gold piece each if they want to perform 
their second tests.
Drink Potion
This is the simplest way to find 
out what a potion does. Of 
course, it does have some 
drawbacks.
The advantage to experimenting 
on yourself is that you do not 
have to pay any gold pieces. The 
disadvantage is that the negative 
potions have an impact on you. 
The effect is different according 
to the color of the negative 
potion you drink:
This is a potion of insanity. You don’t remember 
drinking it, nor do you remember doing naked 
cartwheels through the town square. But everyone 
else remembers. 
You lose 1 point of reputation 
This is a potion of paralysis. It’s hard to get up in 
the morning when you can’t move your limbs.
Move your order marker onto this 
order space. Next round, you will not 
choose an order space with the other 
players. Instead you will draw the cards indicated by this 
special order space and play last.
This penalty lasts for only one round. If your marker has 
been on the paralysis space for the entire round, you can 
move it off when it is time to begin drinking potions, so that 
no one will confuse your marker with those of players who 
paralyze themselves now. (Of course, if you drink this potion 
again, you'll have to put your marker back again.)
Congratulations! You have just survived drinking 
poison. As a student, you must have built up an 
immunity. But even so, you don’t feel that great. 
You’ll need to spend some time recovering. 
Instead of taking your action cube back to your 
player board, put it on the hospital space. For the 
next round, you will have 1 less cube to use. 
No negative potion can affect you twice in the same 
round. Positive and neutral potions have no game effect, but 
you will experience a sensation of deep relief.
If multiple players drink a 
 potion, they will all have their 
order markers on the green space at the bottom. Those who 
put their markers there first will play ahead of those who put 
their markers there later.
If the starting player marker is passed to a player who is 
paralyzed, the paralyzed player passes the marker to the left. 
(The player on the left is getting all the advantages of being 
starting player, and it would not be fair if the same player got 
those advantages two rounds in a row.) In the unlikely event 
that the player on the left is paralyzed, too, the marker keeps 
going around the table until it gets to an unparalyzed player.
In the incredibly unlikely event that all players are paralyzed, 
don't pass the marker at all. Next round, the starting player 
will be the one who would have started this round.
Other Fun Things That Can Happen To You When You Are Paralyzed
Your First Round 
You now know enough to play your first round of Alchemists. Well, almost the entire round. There are a few things that happen after the Drink Potion action space is resolved, but you can read 
about those details later.
If you want, you can play your first round now. Then, come back here and learn about the other 3 action spaces. The rules for what to do at the end of the round are on page 16.

Sell Potion
A speed potion for a swift 
attack, a splash of poison 
to eliminate an enemy – 
adventurers need potions 
of all kinds and they know 
where to buy them. Selling 
potions is a good way to 
make a lot of money if you 
know what you’re doing. 
Or a little money if you think you can fake it.
At the beginning of each round (except the first) a new 
adventurer appears in town. The adventurer will be waiting 
here when it is time for you to sell a potion. The bottom 
part of the tile shows which potions the adventurer would 
like to buy.
Note that this action requires 2 action cubes and you can 
use it only once per round. It is different in another way 
as well: You might not be playing in the usual order. We'll 
explain that in a bit. First, let's talk about what happens when 
it is your turn.
Offering a Potion
When it is your turn to sell a potion, you must choose one 
of the three potions the adventurer wants. Your choice is 
limited by players who have acted ahead of you.
In a 4-player game, you move one of your action cubes from 
the action space to the space below the potion you plan to 
sell. This blocks off that potion for those who play after you. 
Whether you successfully mix that potion or not, those who 
play after you will not be able to choose it.
In a 3-player game, the adventurer will buy only two 
potions. If you are the first to sell a potion, you may choose 
any of the three. If you choose the third potion, you put a 
cube there and it is blocked off, leaving two for the second 
player to choose. If you choose either of the first two, your 
cube blocks off both of the first two, and the second player 
to sell will have only the third option. Either way, only two 
players can sell a potion each round.
In a 2-player game, only the first player can sell a potion. 
The space marked 
 blocks off all three potions. 
In all cases:
•	 The first player always has the option to sell any of the 3 
potions.
•	 The maximum number of potions that can be sold is 1 
less than the number of players.
If you don't like your options when it is your turn, you can 
decline your action. If everyone declares this action, one 
player will be unable to sell a potion. This player must 
decline the action and move his or her cubes to the unused 
cubes space. (See page 16.)
Offering a Guarantee
When you sell a potion, does it have to be exactly the one 
the adventurer wanted? Of course not! You’re an alchemist, 
not a perfectionist. But to keep your arms from being 
lopped off, you do need to offer a money-back guarantee.
Your guarantee says how close you will be to the potion the 
adventurer wants. There are four levels of quality:
Levels of Quality
Exact match. You mixed the potion with the correct 
sign and correct color.
Correct sign. You mixed a potion with the correct 
sign, but the wrong color.
Neutral. You mixed the neutral potion.
Wrong sign. You mixed a potion with the wrong 
sign. Color is unknown.
When it is your turn to sell a potion, put your other action 
cube on the space next to one of these levels of quality. 
(Ignore other players' cubes. Multiple players can offer the 
same guarantee.)
You are guaranteeing you will make a potion that good or 
better, and you are charging the price shown on the same 
row as your cube. If you mix a potion worse than what you 
guaranteed, you don't get paid. If you mix a potion better 
than what you guaranteed, you get paid only for the level 
you guaranteed.
“Trust me. It’s worth it.”
You can charge 4 gold 
pieces for the exact-match 
guarantee. To get paid, you must mix a potion with the 
correct sign and correct color.
“This should be just as good.”
You can charge 3 gold pieces 
for this guarantee. To get 
paid, you must mix a potion with the correct sign. (If you get 
the color correct, too, you still get paid only 3.)
“This amazing potion was 
made in an actual laboratory 
and is guaranteed to have no 
unwanted effects. I call it homeopathetic medicine.”
You can charge 2 gold pieces for this guarantee. You get 
paid as long as you don't mix a potion with the wrong sign. 
So the neutral potion also meets the terms of this guarantee.
“I can absolutely guarantee 
that this is something in a 
bottle.”
You get paid. You can charge only 1 gold piece, but no 
matter what you mix, you get paid.
Mixing the Potion
Mixing a potion for an adventurer is similar to mixing a 
potion for an experiment. You set up 2 ingredient cards in 
your cauldron and tap the 
 button.
The card reader will display the six effective potions. Tap 
the one the adventurer wants you to make. (Even if you know 
your ingredients make a different potion, you still have to tap 
the potion you chose from the adventurer tile.) 
When you scan the cards and tap 
, the card 
reader will not reveal what you mixed. It will just tell you how 
close you were by displaying one of the four levels of quality. 
Show your result to the other players. If you mixed 
, then you know exactly which potion you made. Mark it 
on your results triangle and your player board with tokens, as 
you do when you perform an experiment. If you mixed 
 
then you know the sign of the potion and you know which 
color it wasn't. Take a bicolored ambiguous result token (like 
, etc.) and mark your results triangle. (You need 
not mark ambiguous results on your player board.) If you 
mixed 
 then you know only the sign. Take an uncolored 
ambiguous result token (
) and mark your result. 
An example is on the next page.
If you met the terms of your 
guarantee, take your money from 
the bank. Regardless of your 
guarantee, a result of 
 always causes you to 
lose 1 point of reputation. As usual, discard your two 
ingredients face down.
You can make a little bit of money selling bad potions, 
but word gets around. If your reputation gets too low, 
adventurers will be reluctant to buy from you. 
Money-Back Guarantee and Terms of Sale
I the undersigned adventurer assert and affirm that 
I have been informed of the terms under which this 
potion is sold, that I agree to such terms, and that the 
terms are as follows:
All money shall be paid in advance and in the event 
that a known side effect* accompanies the potion’s 
declared effect** I will not ask for nor be entitled to 
any compensation whatsoever.
X
__________________________
* Known side effects include but are not limited to drowsiness, 
dizziness, halucinations, loss of consciousness, hyperactivity, 
insomnia, partial or entire paralysis, and temporary 
or permanent loss of vision, hearing, voice, or limbs (or 
even spontaneous growth of entirely new limbs (human or 
otherwise)).
** No part of this guarantee shall be construed to 
guarantee that the potion will manifest its 
declared effect.
Actions Available in the Second Round
Actions Available in the Second Round
After the first round, all actions are available and players have the full complement of action cubes. Hopefully, you 
learned something about the ingredients in the first round. Now it's time to put that knowledge to use.

This friendly barbarian is looking for a potion. 
This is a 3-player game. Green went first 
and tried to mix 
. Choosing either 
 blocks off the other, so only 
 is left. 
Red goes second, but she doesn't know 
how to make a negative potion with 
her ingredients. She doesn't want to 
risk losing reputation, so she declines 
her action and moves her cubes to the 
unused cubes space.
Now it is Yellow's turn. His only choice is 
, and he decides to try it. He places 
one action cube under the potion and the other on the 2-gold-
piece guarantee – he needs the money, but he's not sure what 
he'll make. (Green also offered this guarantee, but that doesn't 
matter.)
Yellow sets up 2 ingredients, tells the card reader he's making 
, and scans the cards. What happens next depends on what 
the card reader says:
Exact match! Yellow has made 
. He marks this 
result in his results triangle and on his player board 
with 
 tokens. He also gains 2 gold pieces.
Correct sign! But not the right color. Yellow has made 
either 
. He marks his result with a 
 token 
and takes 2 gold pieces from the bank.
Hm. Yellow has made the neutral potion. He marks this 
result with 
 tokens and takes 2 gold pieces from the 
bank. The barbarian has to pay, but he isn't happy. 
Potions are supposed to do something! Yellow loses 1 point of 
Blech! Yellow has mixed a positive potion when he was 
supposed to mix something negative. He marks this 
result with a 
 token. He doesn't get paid because he 
didn't meet the terms of his guarantee. And he loses 1 point of 
reputation for not mixing a potion with the correct sign.
Offering a Discount
“Get yer potions heeere! Cheapest potions in town! Special 
discount today for men with large axes!”
You've probably noticed that being first on this action space 
gives you an even bigger advantage than usual. And if 
everyone chooses this action, the last player doesn't get to 
sell a potion at all.
So before the first player chooses the first potion, everyone 
has a chance to try to become the first player by offering a 
discount. Even though we explained all those other things 
first, offering a discount is actually the first thing that 
happens when it is time to deal with this action space. But 
if you are the only player on the action space, you skip the 
discount and go straight to selling.
Each player has four bid cards with discount values of 0, 
-1, -2, and -3. If multiple players have declared a Sell Potion 
action, they all bid secretly by choosing one bid card and 
putting it face down on the table. When everyone has 
chosen, they reveal their bids simultaneously.
Adventurers like bigger discounts. Each card has a certain 
number of smiley faces
. Reorder everyone's cubes based 
on the smiley faces. Whoever has the most smiley faces gets 
to sell first. 
But the usual play order is still important. It is the tie breaker 
between players who offer the same number of smiley faces.
 
BEFORE:
AFTER:
Leave your card face up on the table until the action space is 
resolved. Your discount limits your choice of guarantee. 
When it is your turn to sell a potion, you cannot offer a 
guarantee whose discounted price would be zero or less.
Red played her -2 bid card.
•	 She can offer an exact-match guarantee at a price of 2 gold 
pieces.
•	 She can offer a correct-sign guarantee at a price of 1 gold 
piece.
•	 She cannot offer either of the two lowest guarantees.
Even if Red is certain she cannot meet the terms of the correct-
sign guarantee, she can still offer it. (Maybe she wants to see if 
her two ingredients make a neutral potion. Or maybe she just 
wants to block that potion for those who play after her.)
Effects of Reputation
Your reputation goes up and down during the course of the 
game. At the end, it gets turned into victory points, but it 
also has an effect during the game. Adventurers prefer to 
buy potions from reputable alchemists.
Green Zone: 14 to 17 Points
If your reputation marker is in the green 
zone, you get 1 extra smiley face added to 
your bid. For example, if you offer a discount of 0, you will 
have 2 smiley faces instead of 1. 
But you also have more to risk. Whenever 
you lose reputation, you lose 1 point more. 
For example, if you sell a potion that doesn't have the correct 
sign, you lose 2 points instead of 1. If you lose 2 points of 
reputation at a conference, you lose one more, for a total of 
-3.
This penalty applies even if the normal loss of reputation 
takes you out of the green zone. For example, if you have 
14 points and sell a neutral potion, you end up with 12 
points.
When you’re this good, everyone expects more from you.
Blue Zone: 18 or More Points
If your reputation is in the blue zone, 
the stakes are even higher. You get 1 
extra smiley face and you charge 1 extra gold piece for 
any guarantee you offer. (So you could, for example, offer 
the -3 discount and then offer the 3-gold-piece guarantee. 
The resulting price would be 1.)
Whenever you lose reputation, you lose 2 
points more. Again, the penalty applies 
when you start in the blue zone. For example, if you have 18 
points and you lose 5 at once, you will end up with 11 points. 
(This can actually happen. But it's much more amusing when 
it happens to someone else.)
The higher you climb, the farther you can fall.
Red Zone: 6 Points or Less
When your reputation is this bad, you must 
charge 1 less gold piece for any guarantee 
you offer. This is not a discount. It is a penalty applied after 
selling order has been determined. For example, if you 
offered the -2 discount, you would have to offer the exact 
match guarantee. (It's normally 4 gold pieces, but you must 
charge 3 for it. After the discount, its price is 1.) You can't 
offer the -3 discount anymore.
The upside is that when you lose reputation, 
you lose 1  point less. For example, selling a 
potion of the opposite sign has no effect on your reputation 
now. If a conference makes you lose 2, you lose only 1.
Your reputation can never go below 1. Any loss that would 
take it below 1 still leaves you with 1 point of reputation.
When everyone believes you to be a terrible alchemist, it is 
difficult to lower their opinion of you.

Publish Theory
Players on the Publish Theory 
action space play in the usual 
order. With each action, a player 
can either publish a new theory 
or endorse a theory that someone 
else has published.
Publishing a New Theory
You can publish a theory about an ingredient when you 
know its alchemical. Or when you think you know. Or 
when you’re sure no one else knows, either. It’s up to you to 
decide whether to take a risk and publish early or to wait 
until you are certain.
To publish a theory, pick up one of 
the alchemical tokens and place it 
on one of the books on the theory 
board. This is your public statement about the true identity 
of the ingredient depicted on that book. To mark it as yours, 
place one of your seals face down on any of the seal spaces. 
Now pay your publisher! You give 1 gold piece to the bank.
What? You thought your publisher would pay you? No, 
friend. This is academics.
Once you have published your theory, gain 1 point of 
If you look confident enough, no one realizes you might 
be wrong.
Seals
Keep your seals face 
down in front of you or 
hidden behind your 
screen. When you put your seal on a theory, play it face 
down. 
Why all the secrecy? Because your seal is actually a secret 
bet on the accuracy of the theory.
Your starred seals are for your sure bets. You have two gold-
starred seals and three silver-starred seals. You save these 
for theories on which you would stake your life. Well, maybe 
not your life. But you are risking your reputation.
Gold-starred seals earn you 5 victory points at the end of 
the game and silver-starred seals earn you 3, but only if the 
theory is correct. If the theory is wrong, you lose victory 
points. (See page 17.) Or you can lose reputation points if 
someone debunks the theory during the game. (See page 14.)
The unstarred seals are for hedging against a certain 
aspect. This is represented by a question mark on a 
background of that color. If you are proven wrong about that 
aspect of the ingredient's alchemical, you suffer no penalty. 
(Only the color matters, not the size of the circle.) On the 
other hand, unstarred seals are not worth anything at the end 
of the game. (See page 17 for details.)
Blue published the scorpion theory on the left side of this page. 
He put his 
 seal on it to hedge against the red aspect. 
If someone proves that scorpion contains 
, Blue will lose no 
Unless a theory is debunked, its seals remain face down and 
secret until the end of the game. 
“Dear Colleague: If you are reading this letter it is because 
my Theory of Scorpion has been called into question. I 
would like it noted that I was always certain about its 
blue and green aspects. The red aspect, however, ...”
Available Tokens 
and Ingredients
You can publish a theory only about an ingredient that does 
not currently have an alchemical token on it. You can use 
only a token that is not currently assigned to any ingredient.
The reason for this is simple: Each alchemical token 
corresponds to exactly 1 ingredient. Each ingredient 
corresponds to exactly 1 alchemical. So any other theory 
involving that alchemical or ingredient would contradict the 
published theory. Oh, you can try to tell the publisher that 
the other theory is wrong, but the publisher will not believe 
you. That other theory is published; yours is not. Clearly, the 
published theory is the more credible one.
You may want to gnash your teeth and rip out your hair, but 
there is a better way to deal with such fools. You can unmask 
their incompetence next round. See Debunk Theory on the 
next page.
Endorsing a Theory
Sometimes one of your colleagues publishes your theory 
before you do. It is unfortunate that someone else will 
get accolades for “discovering” something that was already 
obvious to you, but at least you can get some credit. Just 
endorse that theory.
To endorse a theory that someone 
else has published, put your seal on 
it, just as you do when you publish a 
theory. You can't endorse your own 
theory – there can never be two seals 
of the same color on a single theory.
You must pay 1 gold piece to the bank. You also must pay 
1 gold piece to every other player who already has his or 
her seal on that theory. 
“Of course you can be a co-author ... for a price.”
You gain no reputation for endorsing the theory. Except 
for that, your seal now counts just as much as anyone else's 
seal on that theory.
Each theory has space for three seals. In a 2- or 3-player game, 
everyone can endorse the same theory. In a 4-player game, you 
cannot endorse a theory that already has three seals.
Grants
Research societies are keenly interested in certain 
ingredients. So interested, in fact, that they are willing to 
offer you a grant for your studies. Of course, you must first 
prove that you know something about their field.
In the middle of the theory board are 5 grant tiles. Each 
depicts 3 or 4 ingredients that you can study to win the 
grant. You win your first grant if you have seals on theories 
about 2 of the ingredients depicted on a grant tile. (It doesn't 
matter whether these seals represent original publications or 
endorsements, and it doesn't matter whether the seals are 
starred or unstarred.)
Blue has published a theory of scorpions. If he can publish or 
endorse a theory about either toads or mushrooms, he will win 
this grant immediately.
When you win a grant, immediately take the tile and put it on 
your board face down. You immediately take 2 gold pieces 
from the bank. Each grant will also be worth 1 or 2 victory 
points at the end of the game.
The gold pieces are intended to further the scientific cause. 
You should only spend money on expenses that the grant 
committee would approve of. ... Ha ha! Just kidding. Most 
alchemists spend all their grant money on a shiny new 
artifact. If anyone asks, you can say it’s “an essential 
piece of lab equipment enabling cutting-edge research.”
Once you have a grant, no one else can take it. It will be 
yours for the rest of the game. Even if one of your theories is 
debunked, you will not have to give up the tile and you will 
not have to give back the money.
After your first grant, you can get more 
grants only by having seals on all 3 of 
the ingredients depicted (or 3 of the 4, 
in the case of the middle grant tile). This 
is the meaning of the “3” on the back of 
your first tile.
If you make a single publication or endorsement that 
qualifies you for 2 first grants at once, choose 1 of them to 
be your first grant. You will need seals on three ingredients 
to qualify for your second grant.

Debunk Theory
Of course, any theory bearing an 
alchemist’s official seal is 
assumed to be a correct theory. 
But some theories are more 
correct than others.
Technically, 
this 
action 
is 
available in the second round, 
but you won't be able to use 
it until a theory has been 
published. If you prove a theory 
is wrong, you gain 2 points of 
reputation. Of course, anyone with a seal on that theory is 
at risk of losing reputation. Details are below.
The logic of debunking is simpler in the apprentice variant. 
If you are playing your first game, you can skip the master 
debunking rules for now. They will make more sense once 
you have practiced apprentice debunking. 
The app's debunking action works differently depending on 
the variant you are playing. If you discover you have it set to 
the wrong variant, go back to the main menu and change the 
setting. Then tap 
Apprentice Debunking
Tap 
 and set the card reader on the 
table where everyone can see it. The card reader will display 
the 8 ingredients and the 3 aspects. Debunking does not 
use the ingredient cards in your hand.
To debunk a theory, you just need to show that one of the 
aspects is wrong. Tap the ingredient of the theory you are 
trying to debunk. Tap the aspect you are hoping to prove 
wrong. Then tap 
The card reader will show everyone the sign of that aspect 
of that ingredient. Compare it with the alchemical token on 
that theory.
If the sign on the screen matches the sign of that aspect 
on the token, you have failed to debunk the theory. (That 
doesn't mean it's correct. It just means you have failed to 
prove it is incorrect.) You lose 1 point of reputation for 
wasting your colleagues' time.
If the sign on the screen is the opposite of the sign of that 
aspect on the token, you have debunked the theory. See the 
Consequences of Debunking box for details. 
In either case, everyone now knows the sign of that aspect 
for that ingredient. They can mark that information in their 
deduction grid.
When using this action, you are not allowed to choose an 
ingredient that doesn't have a published theory.
Consequences of Debunking
In either variant, the following things happen if you 
debunk a theory:
1.	 Gain 2 points of reputation.
2.	 Remove the alchemical token from the theory board.
3.	 Reveal each seal that was on that theory.
4.	 Players who used an unstarred seal lose no points if the 
color behind the question mark matches the aspect that 
was used to debunk the theory.
5.	 Players who used an unstarred seal hedging against a 
different color lose 5 points of reputation.
6.	 Players who used a starred seal (silver or gold) lose 5 
points of reputation.
7.	 All seals that were on that theory are removed from play. 
Seals are not reusable. (You can leave them face up near 
the theory board so no one has to make notes on which 
seals have already been used.)
8.	 If you have a cube on the Publish Theory action space, 
you have the option of immediate publication. 
Blue asks the card reader to reveal scorpion's blue aspect. The 
card reader says 
. This does not debunk the theory and Blue 
loses 1 point of reputation.
Red goes next. She asks about scorpion's green aspect. The 
card reader says 
. That proves that the alchemical token is 
incorrect.
Red gains 2 points of reputation and turns over the three seals.
Yellow hedged 
against the green 
aspect, so Yellow 
loses no reputation.
Blue hedged, but 
not against the 
green aspect. Blue 
loses 5 points of 
Green had 
a starred seal. 
Green loses 
5 points of 
All three seals are removed from play for the rest of the game.
Debunking Your Own Theory
You can attempt to debunk any theory, even one that you 
have published or endorsed yourself. If you are successful, 
you gain 2 points of reputation, but you will also lose 
5 points if your seal does not hedge against the color you 
used in debunking. If this happens, count the gain and loss 
as one change in reputation: a 3-point loss.
For example, if you had 13 points, you would count this as a 
3-point loss from 13, not a 5-point loss from 15. (If you don't 
know why this matters, see Effects of Reputation on page 12.)
Immediate Publication
When you prove that a specific theory is wrong, 
you have the option of immediately publishing a 
new theory, if you have any cubes on the Publish Theory 
action space.
The theory you publish must be either:
•	 a new theory about the ingredient in the theory you just 
debunked;
•	 or a new theory involving the alchemical token from the 
theory you just debunked.
Red has just proven that scorpion cannot be 
. If she has any 
actions on the Publish Theory action space, she can immediately 
use one of them to publish a theory assigning a different 
alchemical to scorpion or a theory assigning 
 to a different 
ingredient. But she cannot use this immediate action to publish 
something unrelated (e.g., a theory that raven's feather is 
).
If you have 2 actions on the Publish Theory action space, 
your first immediate publication uses up the first one. If you 
earn a second immediate publication, it uses up the second 
one.
If you have no cubes on the Publish Theory action space, you 
cannot take advantage of immediate publication. Immediate 
publication is optional; you can wait for the Publish Theory 
action space if you wish and then publish or endorse any 
theory you want. (But don't forget that a colleague might 
debunk a theory and use this option to publish ahead of 
you.)
No Memory
Drinking all those potions does have its consequences.
You are allowed to publish theories that have been proven 
false. For example, if a debunking action demonstrates that 
scorpion contains 
 that does not prevent anyone from 
publishing a theory that scorpion is the alchemical 
You can even publish a theory that was debunked earlier 
this round. The only limitation is that you cannot use the 
immediate publication option to publish the exact same 
theory that you just debunked. That would be very poor 
form.

Master Debunking
In the master variant, it is not enough to know which aspect 
is wrong, you have to know an experiment that proves that 
aspect is wrong. 
Let's say you want to debunk the scorpion theory on the facing 
page. You need to find something to mix with scorpion to make 
, or 
. Any of these 3 results would prove that the 
alchemical on the theory is incorrect. 
Tap 
 and set the card reader where 
everyone can see it. It will display the 8 ingredients. 
Debunking does not use the ingredient cards in your 
hand.
Select two ingredients. The card reader will show the seven 
potions. Select one, and then consider these 2 possibilities:
1.	 The card reader will say that those 2 ingredients do 
indeed produce the potion you selected.
2.	 The card reader will say that they do not produce the 
potion you selected.
Explain which outcome will debunk a theory or demonstrate 
a new conflict between two theories (as described below). 
Once everyone understands your explanation, tap 
If your experiment does not debunk a theory or at least 
demonstrate a new conflict, you lose 1 point of reputation 
for wasting the scientific community's time. 
If you debunk a theory, that counts as success and you gain 
2 points of reputation. In master debunking, it is possible 
to demonstrate a conflict without actually debunking a 
particular theory, and that is also worth 2 points. Most of the 
time, however, you will have debunked something:
Debunking 1 Theory
The most common case is the simplest. You show that one 
aspect of one ingredient is the opposite of what has been 
published. You gain 2 points and everyone with a seal there 
is at risk of losing points, as explained in the Consequences 
of Debunking box.
You ask the card reader if scorpion and mushroom make 
The card reader agrees that they do. This disproves the theory of 
scorpion in the example on the facing page. You have debunked 
it through its green aspect. Everyone with a theory on that seal 
will lose 5 points except for those who played a seal that hedges 
against green. 
If you are learning master debunking, you can skip the rest 
of the Master Debunking section and go play the game 
now. All your debunking actions will probably be this type. 
If something weird happens in debunking, you can come 
back and read the rest of this section. 
Debunking 2 Theories
If the board has theories for both ingredients in your 
demonstration, it may be possible to debunk them both 
simultaneously. If you show they both have an aspect that 
is the opposite of what their theories claim, they are both 
debunked.
Before you have a chance to 
debunk the scorpion theory on 
the facing page, someone 
publishes this theory of 
mushroom. You ask the card 
reader 
if 
scorpion 
mushroom make 
 and the 
card reader agrees that they 
do. You have debunked both 
theories through their green 
aspect.
When you debunk two theories, reveal all the seals on both 
theories and add up the penalties for both. (If a player loses 
10 points, count it as one loss of 10, not two losses of 5.)
Your reward for a successful debunking attempt is still 
only 2 points, even though you debunked two at once. You 
get the option of one immediate publication, not two.
Demonstrating a Conflict
Sometimes your demonstration shows that one of two 
theories must be wrong, but it doesn't show which one is 
wrong:
Before you can debunk the 
scorpion 
theory, 
someone 
publishes this theory of toad. 
You know toad and scorpion 
make 
. You ask the card 
reader if this is so, and the card 
reader agrees that it is.
The theory board claims that 
toad and scorpion both have a 
positive blue aspect. The card 
reader has confirmed this, so 
you have not debunked either 
theory. However, you have shown that both theories cannot 
be true. According to the theory board, those two ingredients 
should make 
The situation is the same as above, except this time you ask the 
card reader if scorpion and toad make 
. The card reader says 
they do not. But if both theories are correct, 
 is the potion 
they should make. You have demonstrated a conflict. 
Unlike the previous examples, a negative answer from the card 
reader means success for you in this case. It also gives your 
opponents less information.
Whenever you demonstrate a new conflict between two 
theories on the board, it counts as success and you gain 
2 points of reputation. No one loses points, however, 
because it is not clear which theory is wrong. You don't have 
the option of immediate publication.
Theories in Conflict
When 2 theories are 
demonstrated to be in 
conflict, mark them with 
matching conflict tokens. 
The seals and alchemical tokens remain on the theories, but 
the seals no longer count for conferences, grants, and the 
top alchemist award. (See page 16 for details.) No one can 
endorse a theory that is in conflict. 
Conflict tokens have no effect during victory point scoring 
at the end of the game. Theories in conflict may be used in 
debunking attempts. 
If either theory is debunked, remove both conflict tokens 
from the board. The other theory is a normal theory once 
again. (Even though it might be wrong.)
Invalid Demonstrations
Your choice of ingredients and resulting potion should 
either
1.	 be able to debunk at least one specific theory; or
2.	 be able to demonstrate a new two-theory conflict, as 
described above.
If your selection can do neither of those things, you should 
hit the 
 button and rethink your demonstration. If you 
perform a demonstration that does neither of these things, 
it is a failed debunking attempt and you lose 1 point of 
Theories are published for every ingredient except mandrake 
root and raven's feather. The only alchemicals not on the 
theory board are 
. Yellow knows that mandrake 
root and raven's feather do not make 
. If he demonstrates 
this in debunking, he will prove something is wrong with the 
theory board, but this information is not good enough to debunk 
any specific theory, nor does it establish a two-theory conflict 
because the two ingredients have no published theory. He should 
try to find some other demonstration.
If he forgets this rule and shows everyone that mandrake root 
and raven's feather do not make 
 he will lose 1 point of 
When you demonstrate a two-theory conflict, it must be a 
new conflict. If you demonstrate a conflict that is already 
denoted by a pair of conflict tokens, that is not a valid 
debunking attempt and it will cost you 1 point of reputation. 
However, you can use a theory under a conflict token in a 
demonstration of a different conflict.

Top Alchemist Award
The player with the most seals on the 
theory board gains 1 point of reputation. 
If no theories have been published, no one 
gets this award. If players are tied, all tied players gain 1 point.
It doesn't matter whether the seals are original publications 
or endorsements. And of course it doesn't matter whether 
they are starred or unstarred because that information is 
secret. But if you are playing the master variant, don't count 
seals on theories with conflict tokens.
Unused Cubes
The round doesn't always go as 
planned and sometimes you 
have to decline actions and 
move cubes to the unused cubes space. For each pair of 
cubes you have here at the end of the round, draw 1 favor 
card. (An unpaired cube doesn't get you anything.)
Take back your unused cubes. You should have the full set 
now ... unless a Drink Potion action put you in the hospital.
Hospital
Once the unused cubes space is 
empty, move any cubes from the 
hospital to the unused cubes space. They will count as 
unused cubes at the end of the next round.
New Adventurer
Remove the old adventurer tile if it's still hanging 
around. Put the next one on the adventurer space.
If this reveals a conference, it will occur at the end 
of the next round. Set the conference tile on the conference 
space, after the Drink Potion action space.
Conference or no, turn the top adventurer tile face up. You 
will always know which adventurer is coming to town one 
round ahead.
Conference
The alchemy conference is always well 
attended. Alchemists come from far and 
wide to exchange knowledge with their 
peers. Well, actually it’s just a big brag 
fest, but the sandwiches are nice.
If you set up the adventurer stack 
correctly, there will be conferences at the 
end of rounds 3 and 5. (If you didn't set 
it up correctly, fix it now.) The conference takes place after 
resolution of the Drink Potion action space and before the 
top alchemist award and other end-of-round business. 
Those who have the required number of publications and 
endorsements gain 1 point of reputation. Those who do not 
will lose reputation points as indicated by the conference 
tile, depending on the number of seals they have on the 
theory board. As with the top alchemist award, count all 
seals (except for those on theories with conflict tokens). 
No one enjoys the embarrassment of arriving at the 
conference with nothing to brag about. There’s always a rush 
at the publisher’s office when conference papers are due.
New Artifact Cards
The end of the conference 
also marks the arrival of new 
artifacts. Remove any arti-
facts still remaining on the 
board and deal out the three new artifacts – level 
 after 
the first conference or level 
 after the second.
Then it's time to move on to the top alchemist award and the 
other end-of-round business.
Setup For Next Round
If any ingredient cards are left in the ingredients row, remove 
them. Deal 5 new ingredients to the row. If the deck runs out 
(during setup or at any other time) shuffle the discard pile to 
make a new deck.
Move all the order markers off the order spaces. (Except for 
any that were put on the paralysis space this round.)
The starting player marker should be passed one place to the 
left. (If it is passed to a player whose order marker is stuck 
on the paralysis space, see “Other Fun Things That Can 
Happen To You When You Are Paralyzed”, page 10.) 
Now you are ready for another round of discovery, glory, 
and mocking the fool who published that ridiculous theory 
about scorpions.
Exhibition
Mostly, alchemists try to impress each other, but once in 
a while it can be satisfying to demonstrate our skills to 
the masses.
 
USE THE OTHER SIDE FOR A FOUR-PLAYER GAME.
When setting up for the final round, place the exhibition 
board over the Test on Student and Drink Potion action 
spaces. They will be replaced by the Exhibit Potion action 
space. Select 
 on the card reader.
Exhibit Potion actions are declared with your other actions. 
You are limited to the number shown (3 in a four-player 
game or 4 in a two- or three-player game).
This is the final action space to be resolved, after Publish 
Theory. Each cube is worth 1 action.
When it is your turn to exhibit a potion, remove your cube 
from the action space and place it on one of the six potions 
depicted on the exhibition board. This is the potion you are 
promising to exhibit. (You can't choose a potion you have 
already successfully exhibited. The neutral potion is not 
depicted because no one is impressed by toad soup.) 
Prepare two ingredients in your laboratory as you do 
for experiments, tap 
 on the card 
reader, and scan the ingredients. Discard the ingredients 
afterwards, as usual.
If you do not get the result you claimed, move your cube to 
the 
 space. You lose 1 point of reputation.
If you are the first player to successfully exhibit that potion, 
you gain 1 point of reputation. Put your cube on the 
 
space. 
If you successfully exhibit that potion but you are not first, 
your cube goes on one of the other spaces below. You get no 
points for mixing that potion, but you can still try to mix its 
opposite. Read on.
End of the Round
End of the Round
The Final Round
The Final Round
A box next to the order spaces reminds you of the things that happen at the end of the round. Resolve them in the order shown.
The game lasts six rounds. At the beginning of the final round, the final adventurer will be placed next to the Sell Potions action 
space. (There are 6 adventurers, you randomly chose 1 to return to the box, and there was no adventurer in the first round.)

If you successfully exhibit 2 different signs of the same color 
during the exhibition, then you have demonstrated mastery 
of that color. Score 2 points of reputation. (More than one 
player can score this bonus.)
You do not have to play here in the final round. Note, 
however, that ingredients in your hand are worth nothing 
during final scoring, so this is your last chance to make use 
of them.
Once all the actions are resolved, score the top alchemist 
prize and draw favor cards for pairs of unused cubes, as 
usual. Then it is time for final scoring. 
At the end of the game, score victory points as follows:
All reputation points become 
victory points. So if you ended the 
game with 16 points of reputation, 
you begin final scoring with 16 
victory points.
Next, score the victory points for 
your artifacts.
Special cases: If a player has the 
Magic Mirror, that player should count up points for the 
Magic Mirror first, before other artifacts and grants.
If a player has the Wisdom Idol, it is not scored until after 
the Big Revelation.
 Next, score the victory points for 
your grants.
If you have any favor cards left in 
your hand, exchange each favor 
card for 2 gold pieces.
Now score one-third of a victory 
point for each gold piece. Or, to 
put it another way, buy 1 victory 
point for every 3 gold pieces, and keep any leftover gold 
pieces as a tiebreaker.
The Big Revelation
And now comes the moment of truth. Place the card reader 
where everyone can see it and tap 
Do you really want to show the answers? Yes, of course you 
do! This is your moment of glory!
The card reader will tell you which alchemical was associated 
with each ingredient. Go through the theories one-by-one. 
On each theory, reveal all the seals. 
If the theory is correct, each player scores the 
following points for a correct seal:
•	 Gold-starred seal: 5 points.
•	 Silver-starred seal: 3 points.
•	 Unstarred seal: no points.
If the theory is incorrect, players lose points, 
as follows:
•	 Starred seal: -4 points.
•	 Unstarred seal, not properly hedged: -4 points.
•	 Unstarred seal, properly hedged: no points.
How do you tell if the unstarred seal is “properly” hedged? 
Look at the aspects of the incorrect theory. If only one 
aspect is incorrect, then seals hedged against that color 
are properly hedged and seals hedged against a different 
color are not properly hedged. If more than one aspect is 
incorrect, then none of the seals can be properly hedged.
Note that players are losing victory points, not reputation 
points. They don't suffer a loss of 2 extra reputation for 
being in the blue zone. The red, green, and blue zones of the 
scoring track have no meaning during final scoring.
Conflict tokens do not matter at this point of the game. The 
seals score positive or negative points regardless of conflict 
tokens. (If you are playing the apprentice variant, you aren't 
using conflict tokens, anyway.)
The Winner
The winner of the game is the player with the most victory 
points. Break ties using leftover gold pieces, as explained 
earlier. If players are still tied, they remain tied. Well done!
Final Scoring
Final Scoring
There are three differences between the two variants:
1.	 At the beginning of the game, apprentices get 3 
ingredient cards. Masters get only 2.
2.	 The conference tiles are different. (Masters are held to 
higher standards.)
3.	 The debunking rules are different. (Apprentice 
debunking is much simpler.) Don't forget to set the card 
reader to the correct variant.
We recommend you use the apprentice variant for your first 
game. After that, it's up to you. 
You can even mix and match the variants. For example, you 
could start with 2 ingredients, use apprentice conferences, 
and play by the master debunking rules.
It's also possible to use the two variants as an equalizer for 
newer players. A new player can start with 3 ingredients 
while everyone else starts with 2. The conference tiles can 
be flipped over to apply apprentice standards to the new 
player and master standards to experienced players. And the 
app can be switched between apprentice and master during 
debunking.
Use these rules to make the game fun and challenging for 
everyone!
Apprentice Variant and Master Variant
Apprentice Variant and Master Variant
 Reputation points are gained and lost during the 
game. Certain artifacts give you reputation bonuses, and 
your zone of the scoring track can affect how much reputation 
you lose. 
 Victory points are scored at the end of the game. 
Reputation bonuses and penalties do not apply to 
them. Most victory points are positive, although you can lose 
points when the true identities of the ingredients are revealed.
Reputation Points and Victory Points

Experimenting
You get most of your information from the 
Test on Student and Drink Potion 
actions. For example, you might mix toad 
and mushroom and discover that they 
make 
. In fact, that was our first 
experiment on page 2. In your deduction 
grid, you would eliminate every alchemical 
with a 
. These are no longer possibilities 
for mushroom or toad. In the illustration, 
these possibilities have been crossed out.
Debunking
You can get the same information from 
the Debunk Theory action. These 
demonstrations are public.
In master debunking, if another player 
demonstrates that mushroom + toad = 
you can record that information in your 
deduction grid. (However, if someone 
demonstrates that mushroom and toad 
don't make 
, it is less clear how to use 
that information. You'll have to devise your 
own system for that!)
In apprentice debunking you learn about 
only one ingredient at a time, but you are 
guaranteed to get a specific answer, 
positive or negative. If any player 
demonstrates that toad contains 
, you can eliminate those four 
 possibilities for toad. 
Later, if another player demonstrates that mushroom contains 
, you can mark that down 
for mushroom.
Ambiguous Results
You don't have to be certain of the result 
when you sell a potion. You can even use 
it as sort of an experiment. For example, if 
you were trying to sell the 
 potion and 
you mixed mushroom and toad, the app 
would say you got an exact match, which is 
just like learning this information from 
drinking the potion yourself. 
Often, the results are ambiguous. 
Suppose you try to make 
 from fern 
and toad. The card reader tells you fern + 
toad = 
. What have you learned?
You know you have mixed either 
. Put the 
 token in your results 
triangle. You can eliminate 
 because they cannot make 
This is marked for fern in red. You can also 
mark it for toad, but it turns out that those 
possibilities have been eliminated for toad 
already.
Using Your Deduction Grid 
Using Your Deduction Grid 
A Game By 
Matúš Kotry
	
Illustration: 	David Cochard
	
Additional Art: 	Jakub Politzer
	
Graphic Design: 	Filip Murmak
	 Additional Design: 	František Horálek
	
Translation: 	Jason Holt
	
Lead Tester: 	Petr Murmak
Testers: Vladimír Brummer, Jiřina Mertová, Aleš Vítek, Marcela, Vítek, dilli, Vytick, Jája, Martin, Lukáš, Křupin, Rumun, Kuba, 
Zuzka, Honza, Rychlík, Zdeněk, Paul, PitrPicko, Dita, Elwen, Ester, FlyGon, Gekon, Janča, Jirka Bauma, Lenka, Markéta, Michal, 
Monča, Olaf, Patrik, Petr, Plema, Pogo, Radka, Stáňa, Filip, Tomáš, Tuko, Vodka, Yuyka, Yuri, Zeus, the Brno Board Game Club, 
and other participants at various gaming events throughout the Czech Republic and the world.
Thanks to: First of all, I would like to thank everyone who worked on this game, especially the artists and the graphic designers 
for their maximum effort (and sometimes even sleepless nights) they dedicated to make the game look this awesome! I would also 
like to thank Dan Musil for help with the app, Jason Holt for lots of help with the rulebook, and Paul Grogan for promoting this 
game. And finally my girlfriend, Jiřina Mertová, for her patience and all the support. Thanks to her, I always had the extra action 
cube when I needed it :).
Special thanks to: Vlaada Chvátil, for recommending this game to CGE 
and lots of useful advice he gave me.
© Czech Games Edition, October 2014. 
www.CzechGames.com 
Throughout the course of the game, you gain information from various actions – even actions of other players. You can record this 
information on your deduction grid using any system you want. The only one who needs to understand it is you. This section gives 
some examples of how to use what you learn.

Neutralizing Pairs
As explained on page 3, the neutral 
potion 
 is created by mixing two 
alchemicals that have opposite signs in 
every aspect Each alchemical has exactly 
one alchemical that neutralizes it. 
Neutralizing pairs are grouped together 
on your deduction grid. (That is the 
meaning of the light and dark shading.)
You can learn about neutralizing pairs 
through experiments, debunking, or 
selling potions. If you discover that fern 
+ mushroom = 
, that tells you those 
two ingredients are neutralizing pairs. By 
itself, this is not enough information to 
eliminate any possibility. But you already 
have information about these ingredients. 
In the previous example, you discovered 
that fern cannot be 
. Because 
mushroom neutralizes fern, you know 
mushroom cannot be either of the 
alchemicals that neutralize these. Green 
arrows illustrate how this information 
eliminates 2 possibilities for mushroom.
The information goes both ways. In 
the first experiment, you learned 
that mushroom must have 
. Fern 
neutralizes mushroom, so it must have 
. You can eliminate the neutralizer of 
each alchemical that was eliminated for 
mushroom. This is illustrated by the purple 
arrows in the picture.
Advanced Techniques
Now go back and look at your previous 
experiments 
while 
considering 
the 
2 possibilities that are left for fern. Can 
you figure out why the 
 result allows 
you to eliminate the two toad possibilities 
marked in this illustration?
There are many other lines of reasoning 
that we have not covered in this example. 
Part of the fun of being an alchemist is 
finding clever techniques that keep you 
one step ahead of your colleagues. 
 
Deductions and Hedging
In the end, each of these ingredients has only 
two possibilities remaining. You know their red 
and blue aspects. If you learn the green aspect 
of one ingredient, you will be able to deduce all 
three.
But you might need to publish a theory before 
you learn what you need to know. That's why it's nice to be 
able to hedge against green.

Notes on Selected Artifacts
Feather in Cap
For example, if you correctly predict the result of mixing toad 
and scorpion and then correctly predict the result of mixing 
toad and fern, you get 3 points because you used 3 different 
ingredients.
Special case: If you also have the Magic Mortar, a colleague 
will randomly choose 1 card to be set aside for Feather in Cap 
and the other will be returned to your hand. Once you know 
which card is returning to your hand, you can decide to not 
use the Magic Mortar and leave both cards set aside to be 
counted for Feather in Cap. 
Magic Mirror
During scoring, you should count this artifact first, while the 
scoring track still shows how many reputation points you had 
at the end of play. It gives you extra points for reputation 
only. The victory points you get from artifacts and grants have 
no effect on the value of Magic Mirror.
Round down: 14 reputation points are worth two victory 
points from the Magic Mirror; 15 are worth three. 
Whenever you have to discard the ingredients you used in a 
potion, you ask another player to choose one of the two cards 
at random. Only the chosen card is discarded. You keep the 
other.
This applies to the Sell Potion, Test on Student, Drink Potion, 
and Exhibit Potion actions.
Periscope
You use the Periscope immediately after you see the result, 
before the next player's action. The Periscope applies to 
the Sell Potion, Test on Student, Drink Potion, and Exhibit 
Potion actions. It does not apply to the Thinking Cap artifact. 
Printing Press
When you endorse a theory, you still must pay 1 gold piece 
to players whose seals are already there. But you don't pay 
a gold piece to the bank. This means you can publish new 
theories for free.
Robe of Respect
Each gain of reputation is bigger by 1. For example, if you 
debunk a theory, instead of gaining 2 points, you gain 3. 
Special case: If you successfully debunk your own theory 
(see page 14) the Robe of Respect applies only if the result 
is a net gain in reputation (in other words, only if your seal 
was hedged against the color you used in debunking). If you 
suffer a net loss, the Robe of Respect does not apply.
Seal of Authority
For publishing a new theory, you get 3 points instead of 1. For 
endorsing a theory, you get 2 points instead of 0.
This bonus is cumulative with the Robe of Respect. If you 
have both, you get 4 points for publishing a new theory and 3 
for endorsing a theory. 
Thinking Cap
Use the 
 button. You have to show the 
results to your colleagues, as usual, but there is no penalty 
for mixing negative potions. You are not allowed to use the 
same card in both experiments. For example, if you want to 
test scorpion + toad and fern + toad, you need 2 toad cards.
Wisdom Idol
Wisdom Idol is not scored with the other artifacts. You use 
it after the Big Revelation. When scoring seals for correct 
theories, your seals score 1 extra point, whether they are 
starred or not. The Wisdom Idol does not apply to incorrect 
theories.
Witch’s Trunk
You can still choose order spaces with ingredients; you just 
aren't allowed to draw the ingredient cards. You can still 
get ingredients from the Forage for Ingredient action or the 
Herbalist.
Each favor card tells you when it can be played. You are 
allowed to play multiple favor cards at the same time. Their 
effects are cumulative, as explained below.
Assistant
Your faithful assistant is happy to run an errand so you can 
get a little more work done.
In a 3- or 4-player game, you can find your extra action cube 
in the box. In a 2-player game (or a 3-player game in which 
you play 2 copies of this card at once) you can use an action 
cube in one of the unused colors. Don't forget to return the 
cube at the end of the round.
The Assistant just gets you an extra cube for this round. You 
are still limited to the maximum number of actions allowed at 
each action space.
Associate
“My associate and I would like to go first. Will that be a 
problem? No? Why, thank you.”
Because your cubes are in the top row, everyone who declares 
that action after you will have to put their cubes one row lower 
than usual. If someone else's cubes are already in the top row 
(because they played an Associate favor, too) move those 
cubes down to the second row and put yours in the top row. 
In other words, a player on a higher order space has a bigger, 
pushier associate than a player on a lower order space.
On the Sell Potion action space, your Associate makes you 
first initially, but players still bid for the right to go first by 
offering discounts, as usual. (Of course, you win ties. Your 
Associate is good at breaking ties.)
If you play two Associate favors, you must use them on two 
different action spaces.
Barmaid
She can find you a little something to give your potion an 
extra punch.
Levels of quality are explained on page 11.
For example, let's say you play the Barmaid favor and 
guarantee that you will mix a potion with the correct sign. If 
you mix 
, it counts as though you actually mixed 
. You 
will not lose reputation for mixing a neutral potion and you 
meet the terms of your guarantee.
If you play 2 Barmaid favors and get a result of 
, the first 
favor makes it count as an exact match and the second favor 
gives you +1 reputation.
Custodian
It’s nice to know someone who can let you into the lab early.
When you play this card, place it next to the board, between 
the Transmute Ingredient and Sell Potion action spaces. It 
works like a Drink Potion action space at an earlier time. 
If you use 2 Custodian favors, you put 2 cubes there. The 
second card can go to the discard pile immediately because 
you need only one to serve as the action space.
If someone else has already played their Custodian favor in 
that spot, use their card as the action space. Put your cube 
above theirs in the usual play order. 
Actions taken on this space do not count against the limit of 
2 Drink Potion actions on the usual space. You can use the 
Custodian favor even in the final round, when Drink Potion 
is not available. 
When it is time to perform the action, you have the option to 
decline it. Once all actions on the card have been resolved, 
put it in the discard pile.
Herbalist
She knows all the secret paths through the forest, and she 
always finds the best ingredients.
You can discard any 2 ingredients. They don't have to be 2 of 
the 3 you have just drawn.
This card must be played as soon as you draw it. If you draw 2 
at once, resolve the first one, then resolve the second.
Merchant
His advice is free. Even better than free: It’s profitable.
Use a cube to block off the potion you sell, as usual, even if 
there is already a cube there. This might make it possible for 
every player to sell a potion. 
If you are not the first player and you play multiple Merchant 
favors, one favor essentially puts you in the same position as 
the first player and you get 1 gold piece for each of the rest.
Shopkeeper
If you spend a bit of time talking with the shopkeeper, you’ll 
discover that his prices are flexible.
Playing more Shopkeeper favors gets you a bigger discount, 
but it is not possible to take the price below 0.
Sage
The old alchemist has many secrets. One secret is just how 
much gold he can extract from a raven’s feather.
If you play 2 Sage favors, you get 3 gold pieces for one 
ingredient. This is obvious from the card, but we didn't want 
this venerable alchemist to be the only one without rulebook 
text.