ALIAS 
 
Number of players: 4+ 
Age: 7+ 
 
Contents: 
Game board 
6 playing piece 
400 cards 
1 timer 
 
ALIAS is a word game that you play in teams. 
 
In ALIAS you have to say things in “other words”. The idea is to explain words using synonyms, 
opposites or clues so that your team mates guess as many words from the card as possible before the 
sand in the sand timer runs out. The team moves forward on the board the same amount as words 
guessed. The team to reach the ‘Finish’ first is the winner. 
 
How to play 
 
1. Shuffle the cards turning over the last card in the pack to indicate the need to reshuffle. 
2. Each team chooses a coloured playing piece and places it in the Start space.
3. Each team chooses a player who explains on the first round. This player then takes a suitable 
amount of cards from the pack (15-20). The cards each have eight words on them. The other 
teams then choose a number from 1 to 8, for example 4. The sand timer is turned over and the 
player starts to explain the word number 4 (see “How to explain”). When the team guesses the 
correct answer he puts the card on the table and starts explaining the word number 4 from the 
next card. 
4. When the sand in the sand timer runs out, the other teams yell “stop”. If the player is still 
explaining, the guessing becomes ‘open’ to all teams. The fastest correct answer wins and 
allows that team to move one space forward on the board. 
5. The amount of cards on the table show how many spaces the team can move forward on the 
board (see also “Mistakes and skipping”). 
6. The turn goes to the next team. Used cards are returned to the bottom of the pack. The unused 
cards are given to the explaining player in the team, and he also takes some new cards from the 
pack, so that he has 15-20 cards in his hand. The spaces on the game board have numbers 1-8, 
and the number for the explained words is now determined by where the team’s playing piece is 
on the game board. The team members take turns at explaining the words (see also ‘Stealing’). 
7. The team that is the first to reach ‘Finish’ space is the winner.
 
Note! The words are not in any particular order. There are verbs, adjectives, nouns, people, 
locations and colours. It all depends on luck, whether you get easy or hard words. 
 
Only exact words are accepted 
The guessed word has to be exactly correct. For example, if the word is “Running”, “Run” is not an 
acceptable answer. 
 
How to explain 
When explaining, you cannot use any part of the word on the card, nor a derivative of it. 
 

For example, you cannot explain the word “handbag” by saying “a small bag women usually carry”, 
or the word “balloon” by saying “a ball filled with air” since balloon and ball are derived from the 
same word. You could, however, say “a colourful object filled with air”. 
 
If the word has two parts, for example “tape recorder”, and someone guesses “tape player”, you can 
then use the first part and help your team by saying “the tape is right but use another word for 
player”. 
 
You can use opposites. The word “big” can be explained as “the opposite of small”. 
You can not use foreign languages (see “Learning foreign languages with Alias”). 
 
You are allowed to give as many hints and guesses as you can until the sand in the sand timer runs 
out. 
 
Mistakes and skipping 
If the explaining player makes a mistake, for example says a part of the word in the card, the word 
will not be accepted and the team has to move one space backwards. For example, if a team has 
guessed 6 words, but the explainer has made two mistakes (6 – 2), the team gets to move only 4 
spaces forward. The other teams must therefore listen closely when the team in turn is explaining. 
 
If the word seems too difficult, you can skip it, but remember that then you also have to move one 
space backwards. However, this is sometimes a good idea since it may save a lot of time, during 
which you can explain new words. 
 
Stealing 
[PICTURE] 
The dark spaces on the board are Stealing spaces. This means that when a team passes or stops on 
one of these spaces, the play is ‘open’ to all teams. A stealing round is played without the sand 
timer. The explaining player takes only 6 cards in his hand and the word number is shown by the 
playing piece. Only one player is now explaining and everyone else guessing! The quickest team to 
guess a word correctly gets to move one space forward for each guessed word. 
 
Note! If a team passes a dark space with the free steps it won by stealing from another team, there 
will be no stealing round for that team. This is a good time to put some pressure on the opponents! 
 
Learning foreign languages with Alias 
A fun way of learning foreign languages is to play ALIAS in some other language. The explaining 
player uses the foreign language, but the guessing players use [your own language]. 
 
The rules in brief 
1. The teams play in turns and inside each team the players explain in turns. 
2. The amount of correctly guessed words = the amount of spaces the team can move forward. 
3. The amount of mistakes and skipped words = the amount of spaces the team has to move 
backwards. 
4. The spaces have numbers 1-8. The team’s playing piece indicates the number of the word to 
be explained. 
5. The dark spaces are Stealing spaces. 
6. The first team to reach the ‘Finish’ space wins.