Table of Contents
I. Gameplay................................................... 3
Overview and Setup...................................... 4
Variants..........................................................5 
Option: Adding a fifthf and sixthob player....6
Option: Adding Agendasf .............................6
Option: Adding Factionsf..............................6
Option: Adding Outer Beltob........................6
How to Play ...................................................7
Orbital Facilities.............................................8
Territory Bonuses..........................................11
Field Generators............................................12
Alien Tech cards.............................................13
Option: Faction Facilitiesf.............................13
Option: Agendasf...........................................13
Option: Outer Belt and Asteroid cardsob......14
End of Game and Scoring .............................15
II. Reference................................................. 16
Alien Tech cards..................................................17
Faction facilitiesf.................................................23
Agenda cardsf......................................................25
Asteroid cardsob ..................................................27
f: first appeared in Alien Frontiers: Factions
fp(n): first appeared in Alien Frontiers: Faction Pack (number)
ob: first appeared in Alien Frontiers: Outer Belt
ep(n): first appeared in Alien Frontiers: Expansion Pack (number) 
p: first appeared as a promotional item

Overview 
Alien Frontiers is a game of resource management and 
planetary development for two to four players. During the 
game you will exploit orbital facilities and alien technology, 
building colony domes in strategic locations to control the 
newly discovered world. 
The game board shows Planet Maxwell, its moon, the 
stations in orbit around the planet, and the solar system’s 
star. The dice you are given at the start of the game represent 
the spaceships in your fleet. You will assign these ships to the 
orbital facilities in order to earn resources, expand your fleet, 
and colonize the planet.
As the game proceeds, you will land your colonies on the 
planet to control its territories. Each territory carries a particular 
benefit and, if you control a territory, you are able to use that 
ability to your advantage.
The planet was once the home of an alien race and they left 
behind a wondrous artifact in orbit. Using your fleet to explore 
the artifact, you will discover amazing alien technologies that 
you can use to advance your cause.
Winning the game will require careful consideration 
as you assign your fleet, integrate the alien technology 
and territory bonuses into your expansion plans, and 
block your opponents from building colonies of their own. 
Do you have what it takes to colonize a new world?
Important Notes
Throughout these rules the words “ship” or “ships” are 
synonymous with the words “die” or “dice”. They are 
used interchangeably.
Objective
Gaining more influence over the Alien Frontier 
(measured in Victory Points) than your opponents by 
building colonies and controlling territories.
Setup
Unfold the main game board and choose the standard 
side (square docking spaces) or the Rocket Dice side 
(rocket-shaped docking ports). Place the scoring track 
board in a convenient location and place a scoring 
rocket of each color on the 0 line. Assign one player to 
keep track of the victory points throughout the game.
Place the clear die in the space on the Burroughs Desert 
territory. This is the Relic Ship. Place each Territory tile 
face-up on the matching territory on the board. 
Place the orange fuel tokens on the table near the solar 
converter. This is the fuel stock. 
Place the gray ore tokens on the table near the lunar 
mine. This is the ore stock.
Shuffle the Alien Tech cards (see “Classic Mode” on 
page 6 for the list of base game cards) and deal three 
cards face-up on the table near the Alien Artifact. This 
is your alien tech stock. Deal one Alien Tech card face-
up to each player. The remaining Alien Tech cards 
form a draw pile that will be used at various times 
during the game. A discard pile will form as the game 
progresses.
Place the three field generator counters on the table to 
the left of the board.
Each player chooses a color then takes three ships 
(dice) of that color and places them on the Shipyard 
image near the words “Maintenance Bay”. Place the 
remaining three ships of each color on the table near 
the Shipyard. This is the ship stock.
Each player takes six colony tokens of the color that 
matches their ships. Return the unused colony tokens 
to the game box, they will not be needed.
Choose player one by rolling for highest number. 
Counting clockwise from player one, player two 
receives one fuel, player three receives one ore, and 
player four receives one fuel and one ore. This allotment 
compensates for turn-order disparities. Players only 
receive this allotment at the start of the game.

3 Player Variant 
Each player takes seven colony tokens. 
Docking ports marked with three dots cannot be used. 
At the beginning of the game, player two receives one 
fuel token and player three receives one ore token.
2 Player Variant 
Each player takes eight colony tokens. 
Docking ports marked with two or three dots cannot 
be used. 
At the beginning of the game, player two receives one 
fuel token.
Setup Diagram - Classic Game
Variants

Long Game Variant 
Once you become skilled at Alien Frontiers you may 
wish to play longer games. For this variant, all players 
starts with all eight of their colony tokens, regardless 
of player count.
Classic Mode
If you want to play just the base game of Alien Frontiers, 
ignore any rule sections with “Option” in the title and 
use only these Alien Tech cards:
Alien City
Alien Monument
Booster Pod (2)
Data Crystal (2)
Gravity Manipulator (2)
Holographic Decoy (2)
Orbital Teleporter (2)
Plasma Cannon (2)
Polarity Device (2)
Resource Cache (2)
Stasis Beam (2)
Temporal Warper (2)
Option: 5 or 6 Players
Each player takes six colony tokens.
If there is a fifth player in your game, that person starts 
the game with 2 fuel and 1 ore. If there is a sixth player, 
that person starts the game with 2 fuel and 2 ore.
Option: Adding Agendas
When adding Agendas, be sure to remove any 
Agenda cards referencing rules and/or cards 
not being used this game. See the Agenda card 
Reference for details.
Deal two Agenda cards face down to each player. Place 
the remaining Agenda cards in a draw deck near the 
Orbital Market. Players may look at their own Agenda 
cards at any time. See the Agenda cards section for 
more details. 
Option: Adding Factions
Randomly select a number of Faction boards equal 
to the number of players plus one, then return the 
remaining Faction boards to the game box.
Determine player order, then give all of the selected 
Faction boards to the last player. The last player chooses 
one Faction board, places it face-up on the table near 
the game board, and passes the remaining Faction 
boards counter-clockwise. This procedure continues 
until all players have chosen a Faction board. The 
remaining Faction board is returned to the box. 
Option: Adding Outer Belt
Unfold the Outer Belt board and choose the standard 
side (square docking spaces) or the Rocket Dice side 
(rocket-shaped docking ports). Place the Outer Belt 
board to the right of the main board so that the moon 
illustrations on both boards line up. 
Place the Blish Expanse Territory tile on the moon on 
the Outer Belt board. 
Shuffle the Asteroid cards then return the top two 
cards to the box without looking at them. This will keep 
the exact mix of available Asteroid cards a mystery so 
that each game is a little different.
Deal one Asteroid card face-up to each card space on 
the Outer Belt board. Set the remaining Asteroid deck 
face-down near the top of the Outer Belt board. 
When First Player has been determined, give that 
player the Asteroid Die. 

How to Play
Play begins with player one and moves clockwise. Each 
player performs the following tasks on their turn: 
Gather and Roll Your Fleet 
Gather all of your ships from the board and roll them.
Use Alien Tech cards and Assign Your Fleet 
Do these tasks in any order you like. You may choose to 
use all, some, or none of your Alien Tech cards but you 
must dock all of your ships at orbital facilities on your 
turn, if possible. If you cannot legally dock one or more 
of your ships at any orbital facility, place them on the 
Maintenance Bay.
You may use an orbital facility by allocating your ships 
to its docking ports. A facility can only be used if it 
has sufficient unused docking ports, you have ships of 
the required values, and you can immediately pay any 
applicable cost. See the section on orbital facilities for 
the requirements and costs for each facility.
Example : The terraforming station requires a value 6 ship and costs 
one fuel and one ore. Therefore, you may not use the terraforming 
station if you do not have any sixes, if the single docking port is 
already occupied, or if you do not have the required fuel and ore. 
You gain the benefits of an orbital facility, territory 
control, or alien tech immediately unless noted 
otherwise. Costs to use orbital facilities and Alien Tech 
cards are paid to the stocks.
You may use your Alien Tech cards at any time during 
your turn. Most cards have a power you pay fuel to use 
and a power you must discard the card to use. Each 
Alien Tech card may be used only once per turn.
You may only use one discard power from your Alien 
Tech cards each turn. See the rules section on Alien 
Tech cards for the powers and costs of each card.
If you place a colony during your turn you earn a 
victory point and adjust the score track immediately. 
If colony placement results in your having more 
colonies on the territory than any other player, you 
“control” that territory. You take its counter, gain an 
extra victory point, and may use the territory’s bonus. If 
you no longer have more colonies on the territory than 
any other player, you lose control of the territory. You 
immediately return the Territory tile to the planet, lose 
a victory point, and can no longer use the territory’s 
bonus. See the rules section on territory bonuses for 
details.
The presence of certain field generators may award an 
extra victory point or limit your ability to use territory 
bonuses and place colonies. See the rules section on 
field generators for details.
End of Turn 
When you have docked all your ships on the board and 
used any Alien Tech cards that you wanted to use, your 
turn is over. Leave your ships as you have docked them 
until your next turn.
If you have more than eight total resource tokens at 
the end of your turn you must return your choice of 
excess tokens to the appropriate resource stocks.

Orbital Facilities
Surrounding the planet are the orbital facilities you 
will use to earn resources, expand your fleet, and land 
colonies. You may not dock ships at an orbital facility 
unless docking ports are available and you can meet 
both the ship and cost requirements. 
Alien Artifact 
Each ship you dock at the Alien Artifact may be of any 
value and allows you to discard the Alien Tech cards on 
display and lay out three new cards from the deck. This is 
called “cycling” and it is optional. 
To claim one of the Alien Tech cards on display you need 
to have docked ships with a total value of 8 or more. When 
you claim an Alien Tech card the count is reset to zero, so, 
to claim another card you need to dock new ships totaling 
8 or more. 
Replace the claimed card with one from the draw pile. You 
may not claim an Alien Tech card you already have. There 
are enough docking ports to accommodate four ships at a 
time. 
Example 1: There is a Polarity Device card on display and you 
want it, so you dock a 2 and a 6 at the Alien Artifact and take the 
card. 
Example 2: You dock a 3 at the Alien Artifact and cycle the Alien 
Tech cards. There’s nothing you want so you dock a 2 and cycle the 
cards again. You still have not found what you want so you dock a 
4 and cycle the cards a third time. The Plasma Cannon is now on 
display. Since your docked ships total 8 or more (3+2+4=9) you 
take the Plasma Cannon.
Example 3: After completing the moves in example 2 there is one 
dock open at the Alien Artifact. You could dock a fourth ship there 
and cycle the cards again but you could not claim a second Alien 
Tech card because the “8 or more” requirement is a separate total 
for each card you claim.
Colonist Hub 
The Colonist Hub has four “advancement tracks” so 
that four players can use it simultaneously to ready 
colonies for territory placement. Each track contains 
three docking ports and seven advancement circles. A 
player may use only one advancement track at a time.
If you do not have a colony at the Colonist Hub then 
the first ship docked here requires you to place one 
of your unplaced colonies on the first advancement 
circle. Each additional ship you dock here, either on 
this turn or on subsequent turns, must be placed on 
this same track until that colony is launched. Each ship 
docked advances the colony one circle. 
When the colony reaches the seventh advancement 
circle you may launch it at your convenience by 
paying one fuel and one ore. You may not begin work 
on another colony at the Colonist Hub until the one 
already on the advancement track has been launched. 
Once the colony has been placed on a territory you 
may start advancing a new colony with the next ship 
you dock at the Colonist Hub. 
If you earn more advances than are needed to move 
your colony to the seventh circle (see Asimov Crater 
below) and launch the colony immediately, you may 
use the excess advances to begin work on a new colony. 
 
Your final colony is not locked into the Colonist Hub. 
If your last colony is on the Colonist Hub and your 
roll gives you the opportunity to use the Terraforming 
Station or the Colony Constructor, you may remove 
the colony from the Colonist Hub and place it on a 
territory via the rules for those other facilities.
Option: With five or six players, the Colonist Hub 
docking ports are “freeform”, like the Solar Converter. 
Ships may use any docking port and each ship docked 
earns one colony track advancement. Players are still 
limited to three ships docked at the Colonist Hub and 
only one colony working toward launch.
If all of the docking ports are occupied, no new ships 
can dock at the Colonist Hub until some of the docking 
ports become unoccupied.
The colonies themselves are also “freeform” in 
that they are not limited to staying on one track. If 
advancing your colony would place it on a circle that 
is already occupied, just slide your colony to a circle 
on a different track in the appropriate position. If the 
circle you need is occupied on all tracks, then you will 

need to adjust the number of ships you’ve docked to 
position your colony on an unoccupied circle.
If all of the launch circles are occupied and your ship 
is on the sixth circle, you may launch by docking one 
ship and immediately paying the one fuel and one ore 
fee.
In all cases, the three-ship limit still applies. If you 
already have three ships at the Colonist Hub, then 
you may not dock a fourth ship to advance to an 
unoccupied circle or to launch your colony.
Colony Constructor 
You must dock three ships of equal value and pay three ore 
to use the Colony Constructor. There are enough docking 
ports for two sets of triples to be docked simultaneously. 
Using the Colony Constructor allows you to land one of 
your unplaced colonies on a territory immediately.
Lunar Mine 
Each new ship docked at the Lunar Mine must 
be equal to or greater than the highest value ship 
currently docked here. There are enough docking ports 
to accommodate five ships at any one time. You gain 
one ore for each ship you dock here. 
Example : At the beginning of your turn there is a 1 and a 4 docked 
at the Lunar Mine. You roll a 3, 4, and 6. You cannot dock the 3 at the 
Lunar Mine because it is less than the 4 already docked there, but you 
can dock both your 4 and your 6. You earn two ore for docking both ships 
at the Lunar Mine. The Lunar Mine now has only one docking port free 
and the next player that wants to use it will need a 6. 
Maintenance Bay 
If you cannot dock a ship legally during your turn, 
place it here. Maintenance Bay gives the player no 
benefit. Any ships purchased through the Shipyard 
or Burroughs Desert are placed here until the player’s 
next turn. A ship on the Maintenance Bay cannot be 
moved with an Alien Tech card. Ships removed from 
facilities with the Plasma Cannon or bumped from the 
Raiders’ Outpost are placed at the Maintenance Bay 
until their player’s next turn. 
Orbital Market 
You must dock two ships of equal value to use the 
Orbital Market. There are enough docking ports to 
accommodate two pairs of ships at any one time. While 
docked at the Orbital Market you may pay fuel equal 
to the value of one of your docked ships to receive one 
ore. You may trade as many times as you wish on your 
turn.
Example : You dock a pair of 3s at the Orbital Market. On this turn, 
you may pay three fuel to receive one ore. If you have six fuel, you may 
do the trade twice. If you acquire three more fuel during your turn, you 
may do the trade again.
Option: If playing with Agendas, You may dock a 
pair of equal-valued ships at the Orbital Market to 
draw two new Agenda cards. You may never have 
more than a total of three Agenda cards. If drawing 
new Agenda cards puts you over that limit, you must 
discard unrevealed Agendas until you have a total of 
three Agenda cards.
You may not discard revealed Agenda cards.
Docking ships at the Orbital Market to obtain 
Agenda cards does not allow you trade fuel for ore.

Raiders’ Outpost 
You must dock a set of three sequentially numbered ships 
to use the Raiders’ Outpost. There are docking ports for 
one set of three ships. If the Raiders’ Outpost is occupied, 
either by your own ships or by the ships of another player, 
you may dock a higher-value sequence here and move 
the original ships to the Maintenance Bay. 
While docked at the Raiders’ Outpost you may steal a 
total of four resources from any mix of players or one 
Alien Tech card of your choice from one player. If you 
steal an Alien Tech card that you already have, the stolen 
card is discarded immediately and you gain no benefit 
from doing so. 
Example  1: If a 1-2-3 is docked at the Raiders’ Outpost and the 
next player rolls a 2-3-4, then that player may remove the 1-2-3 
and dock their 2-3-4 at the facility to conduct their own raid. If 
another player rolls a 3-4-5 or a 4-5-6, then they may remove the 
2-3-4 and dock their own sequence and conduct their own raid. 
Example  2: A 3-4-5 are docked at the Raiders’ Outpost. You use 
the Plasma Cannon to send the 5 back to the Maintenance Bay, 
leaving a 3 and 4 on the Raiders’ Outpost. To dock a higher-value 
sequence at the Raiders’ Outpost you must use a run of three ships 
that totals more than the sum of the ships currently docked there. 
The remaining ships total 7, so you may not dock a 1-2-3 since they 
only total 6. However, you may dock a 2-3-4 (total 9), a 3-4-5 (total 12) 
or a 4-5-6 (total 15) to use the Raiders’ Outpost. 
Shipyard 
You must dock two ships of equal value to use 
the Shipyard. There are enough docking ports to 
accommodate three pairs of ships at any one time. 
Each pair of docked ships, along with the payment of 
the appropriate fuel and ore, earns one new ship from 
the ship stock. 
• 4th ship : pay one fuel and one ore. 
• 5th ship : pay two fuel and two ore. 
• 6th ship : pay three fuel and three ore. 
Take a ship of your color from the ship stock and place 
it in the Maintenance Bay. Claim it at the start of your 
next turn when you gather your fleet. If there are no 
ships of your color in the ship stock on your turn, then 
you may not use the Shipyard. Because it is possible to 
lose ships while playing, you may build your 4th, 5th, 
or 6th ship more than once during the game.
Solar Converter
You may dock ships of any value at the Solar Converter. 
There are enough docking ports to accommodate eight 
ships. You gain fuel equal to one half the value of each 
ship you dock here. Round up for each ship. 
Example : If you dock a 3 and a 4 at the solar converter, you 
will receive two fuel for the 3 and two fuel for the 4.
Terraforming Station 
You must dock one ship with a value of 6 and pay one 
fuel and one ore to use the Terraforming Station. There 
is only one docking port available at this facility. Using 
the Terraforming Station allows you to land one of 
your unplaced colonies on a territory immediately. The 
ship docked at the Terraforming Station is completely 
consumed by the colony creation process and is returned 
to the ship stock at the beginning of your next turn. A 
ship forfeited in this manner may be rebuilt using the 
Shipyard only after it has returned to the ship stock. 
You cannot use the Terraforming Station if doing so 
would reduce your fleet to fewer than three ships of 
your color. 
A ship docked at the Terraforming Station may be 
removed by the Plasma Cannon card but may not be 
moved to another orbital facility. Remember to remove 
the ship from the board immediately.

Territory Bonuses
Each territory grants its controlling player a bonus over 
some aspect of the game. A player controls a territory 
if they have more colonies on that territory than any 
other single player. The controlling player takes the 
territory tile.
Example: Red has two colonies on Lem Badlands and Green, 
Yellow, and Blue each have one colony on Lem Badlands. Red has 
the most colonies on the territory, so Red controls Lem Badlands.
A territory is not controlled by any player if two or more 
players are tied for the most colonies on a territory. No 
player earns the bonus for such a territory. The counter 
for a territory that is not controlled remains on the 
territory.
Example: Red and Yellow each have two colonies on Lem Badlands, 
and Green and Blue each have one colony on Lem Badlands. Red 
and Yellow are tied for the most colonies on the territory, so it is not 
controlled by anyone and no one earns the territory’s bonus. 
Asimov Crater 
Advance your colony one extra circle each turn in 
which you dock more than one ship at the Colonist 
Hub.
Example: Docking two ships at the Colonist Hub would ordinarily 
advance your colony two circles. Since you control Asimov Crater, 
you advance your colony three circles. If you dock three ships at the 
Colonist Hub, you would advance four circles.
Bradbury Plateau 
Pay one less ore than usual when you use the Colony 
Constructor.
Example: You dock a set of three 5s at the Colony Constructor to 
build a colony. Ordinarily you would be required to pay three ore to 
activate the facility. However, since you control Bradbury Plateau, you 
pay only two ore.
Burroughs Desert 
Purchase the Relic Ship for 1 fuel and 1 ore. Place the 
ship on the Maintenance Bay and gather it with the 
rest of your fleet on your next turn. Return the ship 
to Burroughs Desert immediately if you lose control 
of this territory. The Relic Ship behaves exactly as any 
other ship in your fleet, except that it has no color and 
any time the ship would be returned to the ship stock, 
it is returned to Burroughs Desert instead.
See Terraforming Station and the discard power of a 
Plasma Cannon card for details. The player controlling 
Burroughs Desert may repurchase the Relic Ship on 
their turn.
Example 1: You control Burroughs Desert with one colony and are 
using the Relic Ship. The next player builds a new colony and places 
it on Burroughs Desert. Now you both have one colony on Burroughs 
Desert so neither of you control the territory. You return the territory 
tile and the Relic Ship to Burroughs Desert immediately.
Example 2: Your Relic Ship is docked at the Lunar Mine. Another 
player discards a Stasis Beam and places the Isolation Field on 
Burroughs Desert. You must return the Relic Ship to the territory 
immediately and may not repurchase it until the Isolation Field is 
moved off Burroughs Desert.
Example 3: Your Relic Ship has a 6 showing and you dock it at the 
Terraforming Station to build a colony. At the start of your next turn, 
the Relic Ship returns to Burroughs Desert instead of the ship stock 
and you may repurchase it on that same turn.
Heinlein Plains 
Your trading ratio is always 1 fuel for 1 ore when using 
the Orbital Market.
Example: You roll double 3s and dock them at the Orbital Market. 
Ordinarily any trades you make on this turn would be at a three fuel 
for one ore ratio. However, since you control Heinlein Plains you 
always trade at a one fuel for one ore ratio regardless of your docked 
ship values.

Herbert Valley 
Pay 1 less fuel and ore than usual for each ship you 
build at the Shipyard.
Example: You dock a pair of ships at the Shipyard to build your 5th 
ship. Ordinarily you would also pay 2 fuel and 2 ore. However, since 
you control Herbert Valley you pay only 1 fuel and 1 ore. If it had been 
your 4th ship, the bonus from Herbert Valley would have allowed you 
to pay nothing at all.
Lem Badlands 
Gain 1 additional fuel for each ship you dock at the 
Solar Converter.
Example: You dock a 3 and 4 at the Solar Converter and receive the 
usual 4 fuel. Because you control Lem Badlands, you gain two extra 
fuel.
Pohl Foothills 
Pay one less fuel than normal for each Alien Tech card 
you use.
Example 1: You have a Booster Pod card which allows you to add 1 
to the value of an unplaced ship at a cost of 1 fuel. Since you control 
Pohl Foothills, you pay nothing for this manipulation.
Example 2: You have a Plasma Cannon card which allows you to 
remove opponents’ ships from an orbital facility at a cost of one fuel 
per ship. You choose to remove three ships from the Lunar Mine. Since 
you control Pohl Foothills, you only pay 2 fuel for this action.
Van Vogt Mountains 
The first ship you dock at the Lunar Mine each turn 
may be any value.
Example: You rolled a 1, 2, 4, and 5 and the highest value ship at the 
Lunar Mine is currently a 5. Since you control Van Vogt Mountains, 
the first ship you dock at the Lunar Mine may be the 1, 2, or 4. If you 
want to receive a second ore, you can also dock the 5 at the Lunar 
Mine.
Field Generators
The three field generators alter the rules within the 
territory where they are located and, where there is a 
conflict, take precedence over Alien Tech card effects.
Isolation Field 
The Isolation Field nullifies a territory’s 
bonus. The first player to discard a 
Stasis Beam card will place the Isolation 
Field counter on a territory of their 
choice. Any subsequent player who 
discards a Stasis Beam card will move 
the counter to another territory.
Example: If the Isolation Field is placed on Pohl Foothills, the player 
who controls that territory does not receive the “pay one less fuel than 
normal on each Alien Tech card you use” bonus and the bonus is not 
available to a player using a Data Crystal card. 
Positron Field 
The Positron Field awards one victory 
point to the player controlling the 
territory where it is located. The first 
player to discard a Data Crystal card 
will place the Positron Field counter on 
a territory of their choice. Any 
subsequent player who discards a Data Crystal card 
will move the counter to another territory. 
Example: If the Positron Field is located on Herbert Valley and the 
green player controls Herbert Valley, then the green player receives 
one additional victory point. 
Repulsor Field 
The Repulsor Field prevents colonies 
from being added to or removed from 
the territory on which it is located. The 
Repulsor Field does not prevent its 
own movement or removal, nor does it 
prevent the movement or removal of 
any other field generator that is also on that territory. 
The first player to discard a Gravity Manipulator card 
will place the Repulsor Field counter on a territory of 
their choice. Any subsequent player who discards a 
Gravity Manipulator card will move the counter to 
Example: If the Repulsor Field is on Asimov Crater, then no new 
colonies may be added on that territory and the colonies already there 
cannot be swapped or removed by discarding a Polarity Device or 
Orbital Teleporter card. 

Alien Tech Cards
The Alien Tech cards allow you to bend the basic game 
rules. Most Alien Tech cards may be used immediately 
after you acquire them. Alien Tech cards that require a 
fuel payment can only be used once per turn. You may 
only discard an Alien Tech card you have not already 
used on your current turn and then only one discard 
per turn. 
Your Alien Tech cards are placed on the table face-up 
where all players can see them.
You may only possess one copy of each Alien Tech card. 
If a card allows you to change a ship’s value, then the 
value may never be lower than 1 or higher than 6.
If the alien tech draw deck is exhausted, reshuffle the 
discards to create a new draw deck.
Option: Faction Facilities
Each Faction board grants a unique game ability to 
the faction owner that other players may not use. 
Using this owner benefit is often free, but if there is 
a fuel or ore cost, it is paid to the stocks.
Each Faction board has an orbital facility with one 
docking port. If the docking port is unoccupied, 
any player may use the facility by docking one ship 
of any value and paying a one fuel access fee to 
that faction’s owner. If the faction owner uses the 
orbital facility on their own Faction board, they do 
not pay the access fee. If there is an additional cost 
to use the faction facility, that cost is paid to the 
stocks.
Option: Agendas
Agenda cards add a hidden scoring element 
to Alien Frontiers. Each Agenda card has two 
conditional situations. The agenda on the left is an 
in-game situation that a player may reveal at the 
time they achieve the condition to score 1 VP. The 
agenda on the right is an end-game situation that 
a player may reveal at the end of the game if they 
have achieved the condition to score 1 VP. Only 1 
VP, either in-game or end-game, may be awarded 
per Agenda card.
Each player starts the game with two Agenda cards 
that they keep face-down on the table in front of 
them. A player may have up to three total Agenda 
cards.
A player may dock a pair of ships at the Orbital 
Market to draw two new Agenda cards. A player 
may keep or discard any of their new or face-down 
Agenda cards. With one exception (see Multiverse 
Window in New Alien Tech cards section) a player 
may never have more than three total Agenda 
cards.
When a player meets the condition on the Agenda 
card, they may reveal it (flip it face-up) to score the 
VP.
Revealed Agenda cards may not be discarded.
Ships docked at the Orbital Market may be used 
for trading or for obtaining new Agenda cards, but 
not both.
Agenda cards may not be stolen via the Raiders’ 
Outpost.
Agenda cards may not be discarded by using 
the discard power of the Oscillation Capacitor. 
Possessing the Multiverse Window Alien Tech card 
extends the Agenda card limit to four cards. If the 
Agenda deck is exhausted, reshuffle the discards to 
form a new draw deck.

Option: Outer Belt and
Asteroid Cards
Asteroid card icons 
 Navigation Die
 Asteroid Die
 Hold One Turn Before Using
 Ignore Hold One Turn Requirement
Moving the Asteroid cards
At the start of your turn, take the Asteroid die and 
gather all of your ships from both the main board and 
the Outer Belt board. Roll the dice all at once. Before 
placing any of your ships on the board, look at the 
Asteroid die; if it rolled a blank, the Asteroid cards do 
not move. Pass the Asteroid die to the next player for 
that player’s use next turn.
If the Asteroid die rolled 
, immediately move the 
Asteroid cards on the Outer Belt board as follows:
1.	 The card on the 4th space (closest to the moon) 
moves off the board and is returned to the bottom 
of the Asteroid deck face-down. It may come 
around again in the fullness of time.
2.	 The card on the 3rd space moves to the 4th space.
3.	 The card on the 2nd space moves to the 3rd space.
4.	 The card on the 1st space moves to the 2nd space.
5.	 The top card from the Asteroid deck is turned face-
up on the 1st space.
NOTE: If one or more of the Asteroid spaces were empty when 
the Asteroid cards moved, the gap in the chain of Asteroid cards is 
maintained in the move. Do not bunch them up.
Ships docked on the Outer Belt board DO NOT MOVE when the 
Asteroid cards move.
Pass the Asteroid die to the next player for that player’s use next turn.
Navigation Values
Because the asteroids in the Outer Belt are in motion, 
ships need to chart specific courses depending on 
where the target asteroid is located. 
This is represented by the 
 and two or three dice 
values shown at each Asteroid card position on the 
Outer Belt board. These are the 
allowable Navigation values for 
that asteroid space. These values 
only affect the 
 on the card. 
Any non-
 values listed on the 
card are always legal to place, 
regardless of the card’s position.
Claiming An Asteroid card
An Asteroid card is claimed 
by docking specific ships in 
the docking ports next to the 
card’s current position. The 
docked ships must meet the 
requirements shown in the 
center area of the Asteroid card 
and the allowed Navigation 
values for that space. Let’s 
examine the image here for 
examples.
An Abandoned Ship is in the first 
position. The symbols in the center of the 
card show that it requires three dice and 
all three must be an allowed Navigation 
value. While the card is in this first space, 
the allowed Navigation values are 
. So, in order to claim the card, you would need to dock a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Heavy Metals Asteroid is in the second position and requires you to 
dock two ships. One must be a 
 and the other must be one of the 
position’s allowed Navigation values; in this case 
 
 
. So, you 
may dock a 
 
 
 
 to claim the card.
A Terraforming Module card is in position three. It requires two 
equal-value dice and both must be the allowed Navigation values for 
that asteroid position; in this case, a 
, 
 , or 
. So, in order to 
claim the card, you would need to dock a 
 
 
 
 
The final card in the example is a Composite Asteroid. It requires only 
one die but that die must equal one of the allowed Navigation values 
for that position. So, you could dock a 
 or a , but nothing else.
Because the Asteroid cards will move during the game, the ships 
needed to claim a card will change. For example, when the Heavy 
Metals Asteroid moves from position two to position three, docking 
a 
 
 will no longer be an option because 
 is not an allowable 
Navigation value for the third Asteroid position.
Blish Expanse
OUTER BELT
ABANDONED SHIP
Discard this card,
pay ,
then move one of your ships 
from your stock to .
HEAVY METALS ASTEROID
Discard this card and pay 
to receive .
Discard this card, pay ,
and return one unplaced ship
to the stock to .
COMPOSITE ASTEROID
Discard this card to receive

Each Asteroid position allows for a maximum of three 
docked ships. If there are insufficient open docks to 
meet the docking requirements noted on the Asteroid 
card then you may not dock at that position and may 
not claim the Asteroid card.
When you claim an Asteroid card, take the card from 
the Outer Belt board and place it on the table in front 
of you. Read the directions on the card to learn when 
and how you can use the card.
After claiming an Asteroid card, leave your ships 
docked on the Outer Belt board. Gather them as usual 
at the start of your next turn.
The 
 found on most Asteroid cards indicates that 
the player who claims the card cannot use the card 
until the start of their next turn. The player may, of 
course, hold it longer if they choose. The “waiting 
turn” is meant to symbolize the time it takes to get the 
asteroid from the Outer Belt to Planet Maxwell. It is 
best to turn a card sideways on the table to indicate 
that it is “in transit” and then turn it right-way-around 
when your next turn begins to show that it may now 
be used. 
Any Asteroid card may be raided as if it were an Alien 
Tech card. An Asteroid card “in transit” may be raided, 
but the raiding player must then hold it for a full turn 
before using it. Asteroid cards are protected by the 
Holographic Decoy, just like Alien Tech cards.
Blish Expanse
The Outer Belt board shows a new territory on the 
moon – Blish Expanse. If you control Blish Expanse, 
you may ignore the 
 on any Asteroid card you claim. 
Notes on Territories, Alien Tech, 
and Factions
Any rules text from the base game or other expansions 
that refers to territories on the planet should be read 
to apply equally to Blish Expanse, the new territory on 
the moon.
The Plasma Cannon works as usual on ships docked on 
the Outer Belt board.
When using the Seismic Detonator Alien Tech card 
or the REV from the Xeno Explorations faction, the 
only territory adjacent to Blish Expanse is Van Vogt 
Mountains.
Asteroid cards do not benefit from the Pohl Foothills 
bonus.
End of Game and Scoring
Scoring is not cumulative. It is a snapshot of the 
current board and hand situation at any single point in 
time. Use the scoreboard to track the current standings 
throughout the game. Your score will fluctuate up 
and down as the game progresses, and each time 
circumstances change, the scoreboard should be 
updated.
You score 1 victory point for...
• Each of your colony tokens on a territory
• Each territory you control
• Having the Alien City card
• Having the Alien Monument card
• Controlling the territory with the Positron Field
The game ends as soon as one player places their last 
colony on a territory. Players tally up their victory 
points to verify the standings on the scoreboard, and 
the player with the most victory points wins.
Option: If playing with Agendas, in addition to the 
usual VP scoring sources, players receive 1 VP for each 
revealed Agenda card. See the Agenda cards section for 
further details.
If there is a tie, the tied player with the most revealed 
Agenda cards (if used) is the winner. Still tied? Compare 
the number of Alien Tech cards held by the tied players. 
Tied again? Compare the number of ore tokens held by 
the tied players. Again? Compare the number of fuel 
tokens held by the tied players. If you’re still tied after 
all of that, play again!

Alien City and Alien Monument 
Each of these cards is worth one victory point. There 
is one Alien City card and one Alien Monument card 
in the alien tech deck and a single player may possess 
both cards simultaneously. There is no fuel cost asso-
ciated with these cards and they do not have discard 
powers.
Alien Sarcophagusep1
This card is worth 1 VP if you also have the Alien City 
card or the Alien Monument card.
You may discard Alien Sarcophagus it at the start of 
your turn to gather the Relic Ship and use it as your 
own for one turn only.
Astrogation Servof
You may pay two fuel to the stock to take any one ship 
from the Maintenance Bay, roll it, and use it as if it 
were your own ship. The borrowed ship may not be 
docked at the Terraforming Station. That ship’s owner 
gathers the ship with the rest of their fleet at the start 
of their turn.
You may discard Astrogation Servo to send all ships 
docked at one orbital facility to the Maintenance Bay.
Auto Pilot A.I.ep1
You may place one of your ships here and leave it on 
this card for the rest of the game. At the start of every 
turn, take two fuel or one ore. If this card is raided, 
move the ship from the card to the Maintenance Bay.
You may discard Auto Pilot A.I. to move the ship to 
the Maintenance Bay.
Bio-Intergration Circuitep1
You may discard Bio-Integration Circuit at the 
beginning of your turn to reclaim your ship docked at 
the Terraforming Station instead of returning it to the 
stock. The reclaimed ship goes to the Maintenance 
Booster Pod 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel to increase the value 
of one of your unplaced ships by one point. 
You may discard Booster Pod to remove any single 
field generator from the game board. A field gener-
ator removed in this manner may be rebuilt in the 
normal manner at a later time.
Chameleon Cloakf
You may pay two fuel to the stock to replace an 
opponent’s ship or ships at one orbital facility with 
equal valued ships of your own. Pay the usual cost, 
if any, and gain the usual facility benefit for docking. 
Send the replaced ships to the Maintenance Bay. The 
Chameleon Cloak may not be used on a ship docked at 
the Terraforming Station
You may discard the Chameleon Cloak to swap all of 
the colonies on two territories. The Repulsor Field 
blocks this action.
Chrono-Spikeep1
You may re-roll one of your unplaced ships.
You may discard Chrono-Spike after placing all of your 
ships to re-roll one or two of your ships and re-use 
them at a different facility.
Data Crystal 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel per colony on a 
territory to use that territory’s bonus exactly as if you 
controlled the territory. If a territory has no colonies 
Alien Tech Card Reference

on it then you cannot use its bonus. If the territory 
has the Isolation Field on it, then you cannot use its 
bonus. Burroughs Desert is exempt from the Data 
Crystal’s power because its bonus plays out over more 
than a single turn. 
You may discard Data Crystal to place the Positron 
Field on a territory or move it to another territory.
Deflector Shieldep2
When another player uses a card to move, alter, use, 
or destroy your ship(s), that player must pays an extra 
one fuel per ship.
You may discard Deflector Shield to place or move the 
Repulsor or Positron Field to a territory where you 
have at least one colony.
 
Electrofabricatorf
You may pay two fuel to receive one ore. This may only 
be done once on your turn.
You may discard the Electrofabricator to receive three 
ore.
Experimental FTL Drivef
You may pay one fuel to the stock and place one fuel 
token on this card to change one of your unplaced 
ships to any value. At the end of the turn in which the 
Experimental FTL drive receives its third fuel token, 
return all three fuel tokens to the stock and discard the 
Experimental FTL Drive card.
If you control the Pohl Foothills territory, the one fuel 
discount comes off the fuel you pay to the stock. If the 
Experimental FTL Drive card is stolen via the Raiders’ 
Outpost, the fuel currently on the card stays with the 
card. 
Field Amplifierep2
You may pay three fuel to move any of the three Field 
Generators (Repulsor, Positron, or Isolation) on a 
territory you control to straddle the border with an 
adjacent territory. The field now effects both territories 
equally. If raided, move the field to one of the two 
territories.
You may discard Field Amplifier to move all fields on the 
planet to one territory where you have at least one colony.
Field Propagatorep2
You may pay three fuel to move or place a Field Generator 
on a territory where you have at least one colony. Roll a die 
to determine which field. 1/2/3= Repulsor, 4/5= Positron, 
6= Isolation.
You may discard Field Propagator to move one Field 
Generator of your choice from one territory to another.
Fleet Interlinkep2
You may pay three fuel to increase every unplaced ship in 
your fleet by one point (a ship that was a 6 becomes a 1).
You may discard Fleet Interlink to place a Field Generator 
not already on the planet in a territory where you have at 
least one colony.
Gravity Manipulator 
Each turn, you may pay two fuel to decrease the value of 
one unplaced ship by one point and increase the value of 
another unplaced ship by one point. 
You may discard Gravity Manipulator to place the Repul-
sor Field on a territory or move it to another territory.
Gravitron Shuntep3
You may pay three fuel to move any colony from a territo-
ry and place it on this card (limit 1 colony on card). This 
colony still counts as landed. The colony’s owner may 
pay two fuel on his/her turn to move the colony to any 
territory. If this card is raided while a colony is on it, the 
colony moves to a territory of the raider’s choice.
Holographic Decoy 
While you possess the Holographic Decoy, a player may 
not use the Raiders’ Outpost to steal resources from you. 
If the raiding player wishes to steal an Alien Tech card 
from you, then they may only take your Holographic De-
coy. If the raiding player already has a Holographic Decoy, 
then the stolen card is discarded.
Infiltration A.I.ep3
You may pay two fuel when you gather your fleet to also 
gather one opponent ship from the board to use as your 

own. Opponent ship may not be gathered from or 
placed at the Terraforming Station.
You may discard Infiltration A.I. when you gather 
your fleet to also gather two opponent ships from the 
board to use as your own (no fuel cost). Opponent 
ships may not be gathered from or placed at the Ter-
raforming Station. 
 
Infinity Mirrorep3
Instead of rolling your fleet at the start of your turn, 
you may pay four fuel to roll one ship and manually set 
all your other ships to that same value.
You may discard Infinity Mirror to manually change 
every ship on the board to the value 1. 
Ion Fluctuatorfp2
You may pay three fuel to move one opponent colony 
in a territory where you also have at least one colony, 
to an adjacent territory.
You may discard Ion Fluctuator to move all opponent 
colonies from a territory where you have at least one 
colony to adjacent territories of their choice.
Lunar Tunnelerf
Once per turn, you may pay one fuel when you dock at 
the Lunar Mine to receive one additional ore.
You may discard the Lunar Tunneler to send all of 
the ships currently docked at the Lunar Mine to the 
Maintenance Bay.
Magnetic Lockdownep3
You may place two fuel on this card to prevent all your 
landed colonies from being moved or removed for one 
round. Return the two fuel to the stock on your next 
turn or if raided.
You may discard Magnetic Lockdown to move up to 
two of your landed colonies to any one territory.
Matter Extractorp
When using the Raiders’ Outpost, you may steal 
any combination of four fuel or ore from the supply or 
take a card from the Alien Artifact instead of stealing 
from other players.
Mind Control Helmetp 
Each turn, you may pay three fuel to move an oppo-
nent’s ship to a different Orbital Facility and use it as if 
it were your own ship. You may only move one ship with 
the Mind Control Helmet, but the moved ship may be 
used at the new facility in conjunction with other as-
yet-unplaced ships from your fleet. You may not reuse 
the ship at the same facility from which it was removed. 
You may not change the value of the ship as it moves 
from one facility to the other. You may not use the Mind 
Control Helmet to move a ship off of the Terraforming 
Station or the Maintenance Bay. You may not use the 
Mind Control Helmet to move a ship on to the Terrafor-
ming Station. The owner of the moved ship gathers the 
ship as usual on their turn. 
Multiverse Windowf
You may have a total of four Agenda cards while you 
possess the Multiverse Window. If you have any face-
down Agendas when you lose or discard this card, 
you must discard down to a total of three Agendas. 
Revealed Agenda cards may not be discarded.
You may discard the Multiverse Window to reveal a 
face-down Agenda and score the in-game VP, even if 
you have not met the Agenda’s condition.

Nano-Recyclerep4
You may pay one ore to receive three fuel. If you control 
Pohl Foothills, receive one additional fuel.
You may discard Nano-Recycler to return one of your 
ships to the stock to receive three fuel and three ore.
Neutrino Missile Salvoep7
You may pay 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 fuel to move all ships 
on the board with that same value to the Maintenance 
You may discard Neutrino Missile Salvo to move all 
Asteroid cards on the board to the bottom of the deck. 
Refill the board with four new Asteroid cards.
Null-Time Vaultep4
You may transfer any combination of three fuel or 
ore from your supply to this card each turn. No more 
than eight tokens can be placed on the card. Tokens on 
this card may not be used, do not count against your 
resource limit, and cannot be raided as resources. If 
the card is raided, the tokens stay on the card.
 
You may discard Null-Time Vault to transfer any tokens 
on this card to your supply.
Oracle Enginefp4
Each turn, you may pay two fuel before you roll your 
fleet to draw an Agenda card and place it face-up 
across the Oracle Engine card. If you fulfill the In-
Game Objective on that Agenda card this turn, score 
2 VP and place a coin or other marker on the card to 
note its special value, then discard the Oracle Engine 
card. If not, discard the Agenda card instead. 
Discarding the Oracle Engine upon successfully ful-
filling the Agenda card’s objective does not count as 
your one Alien Tech discard on your turn. An Agenda 
successfully fulfilled via the Oracle Engine does not 
count against your Agenda card limit.
Orbital Teleporter 
Each turn, you may pay two fuel to move one of your 
docked ships from one orbital facility to a different 
orbital facility. You may only move one of your ships 
with the Orbital Teleporter, but the moved ship may be 
used at the new facility in conjunction with other as-yet-
unplaced ships from your fleet. You may not reuse the 
ship at the same facility from which it was removed. You 
may not change the value of the ship as it moves from 
one facility to the other. You may not use the Orbital 
Teleporter to move a ship off of the Terraforming Station 
or the Maintenance Bay. You may discard the Orbital 
Teleporter to move any single colony from one territory 
to another territory. See Repulsor Field for exceptions.
Oscillation Capacitorf
Once per turn, you may re-use an Alien Tech card with 
a fuel cost by paying its fuel cost again. If appropriate, 
the Pohl Foothills bonus may also be applied to the 
card’s second use.
You may discard the Oscillation Capacitor to discard 
one Alien Tech card of your choice held by another 
player without invoking that card’s discard power.
Peta-Bit Processorep6
You may pay four fuel to discard an additional unused 
Alien Tech card for full benefits.
You may discard Peta-Bit Processor to remove the 
three cards on display at the Alien Artifact from the 
game.
Plasma Cannon 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel per ship to remove 
other players’ ships from one orbital facility. The 
removed ships are placed on the Maintenance Bay (see 
example 2 below for an exception to this rule). The 
Plasma Cannon may only remove ships from a single 
orbital facility and you may not use the Plasma Cannon 
on your own ships. 
You may discard a Plasma Cannon to return one ship 
belonging to another player to the ship stock. The 
target player must not be left with fewer than three 
ships of their color for their next turn. The Relic Ship 
does not count toward this tally. A ship removed in this 
manner may be regained via the Shipyard.
Pocket Universeep7
Move any number of unplaced ships to this card and 
pay one fuel for each ship moved in this way. At the 
end of any player’s turn, you may move all of these 
ship to the board as if it were your turn. If the ships 
are on this card at the start of your next turn, gather 
and roll them as usual. If the card is raided while your 
ships are on it, move the ships to the Maintenance 

Polarity Device 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel to flip one of your 
unplaced ships to its opposite face. 
You may discard Polarity Device to swap the locations 
of any two colonies on any two territories. See Repul-
sor Field for exceptions.
Probability Focusep4
You may place one fuel on this card each turn before 
you roll your fleet. If you roll four-of a-kind, ex-
change the accumulated fuel for an equal amount of 
ore and add them to your supply. Otherwise, the fuel 
accumulates. Fuel on this card may not be withdrawn 
and does not count against your resource limit. If the 
card is raided, the fuel is discarded.
Proximity Analyzerob
You may pay two fuel instead of using a 
 when you 
claim an Asteroid card. 
You may discard Proximity Analyzer and pay three 
fuel to claim one Asteroid card without docking any 
ships.
Resonating Beaconep4
You may pay one fuel to cycle the cards at the Alien 
Artifact.
You may discard Resonating Beacon to claim one card 
at the Alien Artifact. You may cycle the cards up to 
three times at no cost before choosing.
Resource Cache 
You receive free resources each turn for as long as you 
possess the Resource Cache. Count the odd and even 
value ships after you roll your fleet but before you use 
any Alien Tech cards:
• If you have more odd ships, 
you receive one ore. 
• If you have more even ships, 
you receive one fuel. 
• If you have an equal number of odd and even 
ships, you receive one fuel and one ore and you 
must immediately discard the Resource Cache. 
Unlike every other Alien Tech card, the Resource Cache 
cannot be used on the turn you acquire it. 
The Resource Cache card is only discarded if you roll equal 
numbers of odd and even valued ships.
Retrieval Webbingep5
Whenever other players discard resources because they are 
over the resource limit, those tokens go to you instead of 
the stocks.
You may discard Retrieval Webbing take one resource of 
your choice from each player. This is not blocked by the 
Holographic Decoy.
Ring Repeaterep7
At any time when an 
 would move an Asteroid card off 
the board, you may pay one fuel to instead move that card 
to the first card position on the board. 
You may discard Ring Repeater to rearrange the Asteroid 
cards currently on the board.
Scout Droneep6
You may pay one fuel to look at the top three cards on the 
Alien Tech or the Asteroid deck and replace those cards in 
any order.
You may discard Scout Drone to move one of your landed 
colonies to an unoccupied territory.
Seismic Detonatorfp1
The Seismic Detonator has no function other than its discard 
power and it is a one-use card. Once discarded, the Seismic 
Detonator is removed from the game. You may discard the 
Seismic Detonator to move all colonies in one territory to 
adjacent territories of your choice. The Repulsor Field blocks 
the use of the Seismic Detonator in that territory. The Repulsor 
Field blocks colonies fleeing the Seismic Detonator’s use in 
an adjacent territory.
Shipbreaker Dronefp3
If you have five or six ships in your fleet, you may return one 
of your unused ships to the stock for its Shipyard value in 
fuel and ore.
If you have five or six ships in your fleet, you may discard 
Shipbreaker Drone to return two of your unused ships to the 
stock for their Shipyard value in fuel and ore.

Shipfitter Droneep5
You may pay one fuel and dock 
 or at the 
Shipyard to build a new ship at no additional cost.
You may discard Shipfitter Drone when you build a 
new ship to roll and use it immediately.
Solar Harvesterf
You may receive one fuel for each opponent ship 
docked at the Solar Converter.
You may discard the Solar Harvester to return all of the 
fuel tokens held by all other players to the stock. Your 
fuel is unaffected.
Spacial Stabilizerob
You may pay one fuel to cancel a rolled 
You may discard Spacial Stabilizer at any time to can-
cel a raid against your Asteroid cards.
Space Cranep
When using the Raiders’ Outpost, you may steal 
any combination of four fuel or ore from the supply 
or take a card from the Alien Artifact instead of steal-
ing from other players. 
Stasis Beam 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel to decrease the value 
of one of your unplaced ships by one point. You may 
discard a Stasis Beam to place the Isolation Field on 
a territory or, if the Isolation Field is already on a 
territory, move it to another territory.
Superconducting Grappleep5
You may pay two fuel per ship to dock at a facility 
that has no open docking ports. Normal costs apply. 
Place your ship(s) near the docking ports at that facil-
ity. Your ships do not move if ports become available 
before your next turn.
You may discard Superconducting Grapple to move 
all ships from one facility to the Maintenace Bay.
Suppression Matrixep5
You may pay two fuel to decrease every unplaced ship 
in your fleet by one point (a ship that was a 1 be-
comes a 6).
You may discard Suppression Matrix to remove one of 
the three fields (Repulsor, Positron, or Isolation) from 
a territory with at least one of your colonies present.
Tele-Operatorep6
You may pay two fuel to use a card on display at the 
Alien Artifact as if it were your own. Regular usage 
costs apply. VP cards are exempt, and the chosen card 
may not be discarded.
You may discard Tele-Operator to claim a card on 
display at the Alien Artifact.
Temporal Warper 
Each turn, you may pay one fuel to re-roll as many of 
your unplaced ships as you like. 
You may discard a Temporal Warper to claim one 
Alien Tech card of your choice from the discard pile. 
You may look through the discard pile before discard-
ing your Temporal Warper card.

Brethren of the Starsfp3 
The Brethren of the Stars faction owner 
may roll the Brethren Ship along with 
his/her regular fleet of ship. If the ship 
comes up blank, it is set aside until the 
owner’s next turn. If it comes up with the Raider icon, 
the faction owner may use it to “hijack” any one die 
on the board and replace it with the Brethren Ship. 
The faction owner then rolls the hijacked ship and 
uses it as his/her own, except that the hijacked ship 
may not come from or go to the Terraforming Station. 
If the Brethren Ship is on the board at the start of the 
faction owner’s turn, it is removed from the board 
along with the faction owner’s other ships.
If the Brethren Ship is already on the board, a player 
docked at Brethren of the Stars may move it to an 
empty docking port at the Lunar Mine and take one 
ore token. While the Brethren Ship is on the board, it 
has no value, but it does block a docking port and it is 
subject to any rule or card that would move any other 
ship. 
Corex Conglomeratedf
At the beginning of their turn, the faction owner 
receives one fuel plus one fuel for each territory that 
they control.
A player docked at Corex Conglomerated pays two 
fuel to the stock to receive one ore for each territory 
they control at the time of docking.
Dark Space Explorersf
On their turn, the faction owner may discard up to 
two Alien Tech cards instead of just one.
A player docked at Dark Space Explorers pays one fuel 
to take the top card from the Alien Tech deck. If the 
card is a duplicate of one they already have, the new 
card is discarded without effect.
Homesteader’s Unionf
The faction owner may launch their colonies from the 
sixth circle of the Colonist Hub instead of the seventh.
A player docked at Homesteader’s Union advances 
their colony token one circle at the Colonist Hub.
New Gaia Engineersf
When any other player uses the Terraforming Sta-
tion, their one fuel and one ore payment is given to 
the faction owner instead of the stocks. If the faction 
owner uses the Terraforming Station, their payment 
goes to the stocks as usual.
To dock at New Gaia Engineers, a player must already 
be docked at the Terraforming Station. The player 
immediately re-rolls the terraformed ship and places 
it back on the Terraforming Station. The result of the 
roll determines where the ship will go when it leaves 
the Terraforming Station, either on the player’s next 
turn or if blasted by the Plasma Cannon. If it is a 1, 2, 
or 3, the ship will go to the Maintenance Bay. If it is a 
4, 5, or 6, the ship will go to the stocks.
Faction Facility Reference

Prophets of the Artifactfp4 
The faction owner may discard one of his/her face-down 
Agenda cards to receive three fuel tokens or one ore to-
ken, or to draw the top card of the Agenda deck.
A player docked at Prophets of the Artifact may draw a 
number of Agenda cards equal to the value of the docked 
ship. The player keeps one of the drawn cards and dis-
cards the rest. If the kept card puts the player over their 
limit of held Agenda cards, additional discards will be 
necessary. 
Proxima Centauri Scholarsf 
The faction owner may pay two fuel to place one field 
generator token on the planet or remove one field gen-
erator token from the planet. The faction owner may 
not use this benefit to move a field generator from one 
territory to another. The faction owner may not place or 
remove more than one field generator per turn with this 
faction benefit.
A player docked at Proxima Centauri Scholars pays one 
fuel to move a field generator token from one territory to 
Scavenger Fleetf
When the faction owner builds a new ship at the Ship-
yard or acquires the Relic Ship from Burroughs Desert, 
they immediately roll it and use it along with their other 
unplaced ships.
A player docked at Scavenger Fleet may dock two un-
equal ships at the Shipyard and pay the usual costs to 
build a new ship.
Smuggler’s Alliancef
The faction owner may use any sequence of three ships 
to bump ships already docked on the Raiders’ Outpost. 
Higher value is not required for this faction’s owner.
To dock at Smuggler’s Alliance, a player must simulta-
neously dock at the Raiders’ Outpost. Once docked, the 
player may raid four resources AND one Alien Tech card 
from any combination of opponents.
Sunrise Communefp2 
The Sunrise Commune faction owner may pay one 
ore less than usual when landing a new colony if 
the colony is placed on a territory with no opponent 
colonies.
A player docked at Sunrise Commune will pay one 
fuel to the faction owner and three fuel to the stocks 
to move any single colony to a territory with no other 
colony on it.
Uranian Syndicatef 
A “contested” territory is a colonized territory which 
is not controlled by any player. The faction owner 
may use the territory bonus of one contested territory, 
whether or not the player has any colonies in that ter-
ritory. Use of the territory bonus lasts for the duration 
of the player’s turn. The only territory bonus that the 
Uranian Syndicate may not access in this way is the 
Burroughs Desert bonus.
A player docked at Uranian Syndicate pays one ore 
to move one of their own colony tokens from one 
territory to another territory or pays two ore to move 
one an opponent’s colony token from one territory to 
Xeno Explorations, Inc. (REV)fp1
The faction owner may pay one fuel 
to move the REV to an adjacent terri-
tory and may then use that territory’s 
bonus as if the faction owner controlled the territory. 
A player docked at Xeno Explorations, Inc. may move 
the REV to an adjacent territory and may then use 
that territory’s bonus as if the player controlled the 
territory. 
If the faction owner is able to move the REV twice 
on the same turn, the territory bonuses gained may 
only be used while the REV is located in each specific 
territory. The REV may only move into a territory that 
shares a border with the territory in which the REV is 
currently located. The REV only activates a territory 
bonus when it first moves into a territory. A REV that 
has not moved grants no bonus. The REV cannot acti-
vate the Burroughs Desert territory bonus.

Roll five sequential ships 
without using Alien Techf
You control Pohl Foothills
Land three colonies in a single 
You control Herbert Valley
Roll four-of-a-kind without 
using Alien Techf
You control Van Vogt Mountains
Gain six or more ore in a single 
You control a territory with a 
single colony on it
Possess four Alien Tech cards 
that no other player possessesf
You control Asimov Crater
Land a colony on a territory that 
already has the Isolation Field 
on it.f
You control Bradbury Plateau
Bump your own ships from the 
Raiders’ Outpostf
You control a territory 
containing three or more 
colonies belonging to other 
players
Gain twelve or more fuel in a 
You control a territory with 
three field generators on it
Move colonies so that you and 
an opponent both gain VPsf
You control Burroughs Desert
Take control of a territory from 
an opponent and use its benefit 
immediatelyf
You control Heinlein Plains
Move five spaces on the Colonist 
Hub track in a single turnf
You control Lem Badlands
Gain two ships in a single turnf
Van Vogt Mountains
Dock four ships totaling exactly 
8 points at the Alien Artifactf
Pohl Foothills
Use your ships to fill all unused 
docks at the Solar Converterf
Heinlein Plains
Move your colony into an 
unclaimed territory, you may 
score 1 VPf
If at game’s end your colonies 
are the only colonies in every 
territory you occupy, reveal this 
Score 1 VP when you draw four 
or more Agenda cards on a 
single turn.f
Score 1 VP if this was your last 
face-down Agenda card.
Dock your ships at five different 
orbital facilities on the same 
Burroughs Desert
Fill every dock at the Lunar 
Mine with your shipsf
Herbert Valley
Launch a colony from the 
Colonist Hub and begin work on 
a new colony in the same turnf
Asimov Crater
Roll 10 or less with your fleet of 
five or more ships without using 
Alien Techf
Bradbury Plateau
If you are the first player to 
build your sixth ship, you may 
score 1 VPep1
(or tie for) the most colonies in 
contiguous territories, reveal 
this card and score 1 VP
Discard the Plasma Cannon 
to return a ship to the stock, 
immediately and score 1 VPep1 
exactly one colony in the 
territory with the Repulsor 
Field, reveal this card and score 
1 VP
Move or remove two Field 
Generators in the same turn, 
immediately and score 1 VPep2
no Alien Tech cards, reveal this 
A player uses the Raiders’ 
Outpost against you, and you 
reveal this card immediately, the 
raid against you fails and you 
score 1 VPep2
If at the game’s end you 
possess a Data Crystal and a 
Holographic Decoy, reveal this 
You have three or more landed 
colonies but control no 
territories, you may reveal this 
card immediately and score 1 
VPep3
If at the game’s end all of your 
colonies are located in territories 
you control, reveal this card and 
You raid (and discard) an 
Alien Tech card you already 
have, you may reveal this card 
immediately and score 1 VPep4
three ships docked at the 
Raiders’ Outpost, reveal this 
You are raided on two 
consecutive turns, you may 
score 1 VPep5
four or more colonies on one 
territory, reveal this card and 
Agenda Card Reference: Base Game and Agendas Only
The Agendas on this page are all achievable using only the base game rules 
and can be included in all games where Agendas are used.

Gather your fleet of seven shipsf
You possess a Resource Cache 
and an Oscillation Capacitor
 Go from the lowest untied score 
to the highest untied score in a 
You possess a Booster Pod and 
an Experimental FTL Drive
Steal from all opponents on a 
You possess a Polarity Device 
and a Multiverse Window
Gain two or more Alien Tech 
cards in a single turnf
You possess a Stasis Beam and a 
Solar Harvester
Take control of two territories 
belonging to other players in a 
You possess a Plasma Cannon 
and an Electrofabricator
Place the Repulsor Field on the 
planet without using Proxima 
Centauri Scholarsf
Lem Badlands
Move the REV into a territory 
that already has the Isolation 
Field on itfp1
The REV is located in a territory 
that you control
Place or Move the Repulsor 
Field onto the territory where 
the REV is locatedfp1
The REV and the Relic Ship are 
both in Burroughs Desert
Score 1 VP when you take 
control of a territory using the 
Ion Fluctuator.fp2
Score 1 VP if you control at least 
one territory with only a single 
colony.
Score 1 VP when you use the 
Brethren Ship to hijack a ship at 
the Alien Artifact.fp3
Score 1 VP if the Brethren Ship 
is docked at an orbital or faction 
facility.
Score 1 VP when you use the 
Shipbreaker Drone to destroy 
one of your ships.fp3
Score 1 VP if you have the 
Shipbreaker Drone and exactly 
four ships.
Score 1 VP when another player 
steals the Oracle Engine card 
from you.fp4
Score 1 VP if you possess the 
Oracle Engine card.
Use the Relic Ship at the 
Terraforming Station, you may 
score 1 VPep3
the Relic Ship and the Magnetic 
Lockdown, reveal this card and 
The Lunar Mine has five 
sequentially numbered ships 
and at least one ship is yours, 
immediately and score 1 VPep4
the Nano-Recycler and control 
the Van Vogt Mountains 
territory, reveal this card and 
Build a ship using the Shipfitter 
Drone, you may reveal this card 
immediately and score 1 VPep5
If at the game’s end there are 
no Field Generators in any 
territory, reveal this carda nd 
Claim two Asteroid cards on the 
same turn, you may reveal this 
card immediately and score 1 
VPep6
If at the game’s end you control 
Blish Expanse, reveal this card 
and score 1 VP
Raid an Asteroid card that is “in 
tow”, you may reveal this card 
immediately and score 1 VPob
two or more “pilot” Asteroid 
cards, reveal this card and score 
1 VP
Possess the Cargo Salvage and 
Orbital Debris cards, you may 
score 1 VPob
the Alien Beacon and Alien 
Satellite cards, reveal this card 
and score 1 VP
Agenda Card Reference: Additional Expansions
The following Agenda cards require that an optional game element (Factions, Outer Belt, specific Alien Tech 
cards, etc) be used in order for that card to be achievable. Do not use those Agenda cards if not using the 
associated game element.

Abandoned Shipob
to move one 
of your ships from the stock to the Maintenance Bay. Gather 
and use the new ship on your next turn as usual.
Alien Beaconob
 
: Worth 1 Victory Point while you possess this card. 
Lose one Victory Point if the card is raided from you.
Alien Satelliteob
 
: Worth 1 Victory Point while you possess this card. 
Lose one Victory Point if the card is raided from you.
Belter Pilotob 
 
: May use once per turn to change one of your 
Cargo Salvageob
: Discard this card then roll the Asteroid die. If you roll 
 from the stock. Otherwise, take 
 from 
the stock.
Cometary Fragmentob
: Discard this card then roll the Asteroid die. If you 
roll 
 from the stock. Otherwise, take 
 from the stock.
Composite Asteroidob
: Discard this card to receive 
Damaged Shipob
: Discard this card and pay the usual Shipyard fee to 
move one of your ships from the stock to the Maintenance 
Heavy Metal Asteroidob
 
 
:– Discard this card and pay 
 to receive 
Hyperspace Pilotob
 
: – May use once per turn by paying 
 to 
change one of your unplaced ships to a 
 or .
Iron Asteroidob
 to receive 
Message Buoyob 
: Discard this card then deal an extra Agenda card 
to each player. This Agenda card does not count against a 
player’s limit of three Agenda cards. 
Micro-Singularityep7
: Discard this card to return all of the cards on the 
Outer Belt board to the bottom of the deck. A new Asteroid 
card comes onto the board as usual during play each time 
an 
 is rolled. 
Orbital Debrisob
: Discard this card then roll the Asteroid die. If you 
roll 
 from the stock. Otherwise, take a random 
card from the Alien Artifact discard pile. 
Orbital Pilotob
 
 
: May use once per turn to change one of your 
Raiders’ Rockob
 = 
: Discard this card to take on of the following: any 
combination of three fuel/ore, one Alien Tech card, or one 
Asteroid card.
Ship In Distressob
 
 to look at the top two 
cards in the Alien Tech deck. Keep one of the Alien Tech 
cards and return the other to the top of the Alien Tech deck.
Ship’s Lifeboatob
? 
: Discard this card to advance one colony three spaces 
along the Colonist Hub track.
System Pilotob
 
 
: – May use once per turn to change one of your 
Tactical Meteoroidsep7
: Discard this card to move any number of ships at 
one Orbital Facility, Faction Facility, or Outer Belt position 
to the Maintenance Bay.
Terraforming Moduleob
 = 
and return 
one of your unplaced ships to the stock to land a Colony in 
the territory of your choice. 
Asteroid Card Reference

Credits
Game Design: Tory Niemann, Randall Bartob 
Art: Mark Maxwell, Ian O’Tooleob 
Art Direction: W. David MacKenzie, Dann May
Graphic Design: Karim Chakroun, Cody Jones, Dann May 
Publisher : Game Salute
Executive Producers: Dan Yarrington, W. David MacKenzie 
Playtesters:
Shawn Anderson
Randall Bart
Zach Barth
Zach Carter
Dustin Chapman
Laurel Eddy
Hunter Elenbaas
Kay Gordon
Larry Gordon
Shane Harris
Darlene Hartford
Andrew Haynes
Tom Hillman
Jennifer Hodgdon
Sarah Howard
Lorraine Johnson
Noah Kolman
Sandra Kualls
Mark Loen
Alice MacKenzie 
David MacKenzie
Fred MacKenzie
John MacKenzie
Eric Maxey
Scot 
McConnachie
Christopher Mills
Michelle Sparr 
Mills
Kirk Monsen
Chuck Monson
Donna Morina
Peter Mumford
Dan Nasset
Davin Nathanson
Mark Nielsen
Melissa Niemann
Christopher Paul
Spencer Perkins
Evan Pongrss
John Reiher
Howard Saccoliti
Andrew Shapira
Mike Snively
JT Traub
David Udell
Michael Udell
Robert Udell
Steve Ward
And The UOPX 
Lunchtime 
Gamers
Special Thanks: A special thank you goes out to all of our 
Kickstarter backers who pledged their support on Kickstarter 
over the years. This game would not have been possible 
without your generous support.