YOUTUBE
EsotericOrderGamers
DONATE
orderofgamers.com/shop/singleoffering
PATReON
patreon.com/esotericorder
INSTAGRAM
orderofgamers
FACEBOOK
EOGamersFB
MASTADON
@EOGamers@tabletopVIP
twitter
@EOGamers
H
ello! I’m Peter (‘Universal Head’), and for more than 10 years I’ve been 
creating these famous rules and references, and bringing you hundreds of 
entertaining, informative videos about tabletop gaming.
This PDF took a lot of time and hard work to create, so if you find it improves your 
game experience, please consider a donation so I can continue to make them for 
you. Even better, regularly support the EOG on Patreon. There’s even a special EOG 
community on Discord – go to the website and click the link to join!
L
a
b
o
r
Lu
su
m
e
li
or
at
T
H
S
T
I
C
D
F
G
A
S
ORDEROFGAMERS.COM

Game: 	
ALIENS: ANOTHER GLORIOUS DAY IN THE CORPS
Publisher: 	
GALE FORCE NINE (2020)
Page 1: 	
Rules summary front
Page 2: 	
Rules summary back
Page 3: 	
Play reference x2 front
Page 4: 	
Play reference x2 back
Page 5: 	
Get Away From Her You B***h! summary
v2.2
Apr 2023
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for additional reference. Universal 
Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially 
from these player aids. Artwork from the original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This 
PDF may not be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
If you need exceptional quality graphic design 
for your next project, visit universalhead.com

SETUP
Choose a mission from the mission cards. If you are playing the 
campaign, this will be Mission 1: Newt. Set up the boards as 
instructed by the card, with the card organizer nearby.
Each player chooses a character and places their character 
card in front of them with its HERO side up. Place the remaining 
character cards nearby with their GRUNT side up. There are 2 
types of characters: CIVILIANS and MARINES.
Newt is not available until you have completed the first mission. 
If your HERO is Ripley, you also play Newt as a HERO. If Ripley 
is a GRUNT, then Newt is also a GRUNT. The Ripley player uses 
the same hand of cards for both characters, but they have their 
own, separate, activations. Newt cannot equip weapons cards.
Unless you are playing a Bug Hunt mission, players gear up 
their HEROES and GRUNTS with free equipment and weapons 
cards taken from the endurance cards. A character may equip 
up to 2 weapon cards and up to 2 equipment cards. Place the 
first weapon card to the left of the character card, and the 
second, which must have the keyword BACKUP, to the right. 
Equipment cards are placed below the character card.
In Bug Hunt missions, characters do not get any starting 
equipment or weapons other than an HK VP70 Pistol each. 
Do not use Newt in these missions.
Create the endurance deck: shuffle all remaining equipment 
and weapon cards with the rest of the endurance cards and 
set this deck in the card organizer. Place the reshuffle card 
underneath the endurance deck.
Give each character an aim dial and set them to match the 
AIM number on their character card. 
Create the motion tracker deck as instructed by the mission 
card and set it in the card organizer. There are 3 different threat 
levels on the card backs, indicating how difficult the card is 
likely to be.
Place spawn point tokens, blip tokens (number side down), and 
other mission tokens on the board as instructed by the mission 
card. Put all remaining blip tokens in a token pool (numbers 
facedown and shuffled). Place all of the alien models and alien 
tokens nearby. Place characters in their starting locations.
If the mission requires a turn dial, set it to 1 and place it near 
the board. Place the exit token as instructed by the mission 
card. Place the activation token next to the HERO with the 
highest rank.
If there is an instance when the aliens have a choice, the player 
with the highest rank determines what the aliens do. If there is a 
tie in rank, those players must make the decision together.
If you are allowed to re-roll a die result, the new result always 
replaces the original result and only counts as one roll. The 
re-rolled result is final and cannot be re-rolled again.
GAME TURNS
Players take turns activating their HERO characters. 
Each character is activated once per Marine phase. Once all 
characters have been activated, proceed to the Alien phase. 
The player controlling the MARINE HERO character with the 
highest rank chooses a player to start the phase and gives them 
the activation token. 
ACTIVATIONS
When a player receives the activation token they activate their 
HERO character. There are 6 activation steps:
1: RESOLVE ALL ON ACTIVATION ABILITIES
Resolve any cards with abilities that happen on activation. If 
there are several, the active player decides their order.
EQUIP CARDS: You may equip any weapon or equipment 
cards from your hand onto an empty slot on your character card 
by paying the card’s cost.
UNEQUIP CARDS: You may return any equipped weapon or 
equipment cards on your character card to your hand (there is 
no hand limit).
EQUIPPING OTHER CHARACTERS: You may equip other 
characters within 2 spaces of your character with weapon or 
equipment cards in your hand, paying their cost as normal.
Each character can perform 2 actions each turn (the same or 
different actions). If a card effect gives you a free action, this 
does not count towards the 2 you can take each activation.
equal to or under your character’s TECH, you pass. Otherwise, 
you fail and may try again during another action.
4: RESOLVE ALL END OF ACTIVATION ABILITIES
Resolve any cards with abilities that happen at the end of 
activation. If there are several, the active player decides their 
order.
After a MARINE HERO character activates, they can activate a 
number of GRUNT characters equal to their rank. They cannot 
activate a GRUNT character with a higher rank.
If the player to your left has not activated this turn, pass them 
the activation token. 
The player with the highest rank now activates any remaining 
GRUNTS that haven’t yet been activated this marine phase, 
then the marine phase ends. If there are no MARINE HERO 
characters, choose a player to activate remaining GRUNTS.
All alien models activate one at a time, starting with the alien 
closest to the marines and working outwards. If 2 or more are 
the same distance from a character, the player with the highest 
rank chooses which alien activates first.
When activated, an alien always moves, then attacks if able. 
Complete an alien’s full activation before going on to the next.
ALIEN MOVEMENT
If an alien model is not in a space next to a character, it moves. 
Otherwise, it will skip movement and immediately attack.
All aliens have a speed of 6. They must move towards the 
closest character (even knocked down characters), taking the 
shortest route possible. An alien will stop moving when it runs 
out of SPEED, it moves into or starts its move in a space next to 
a character, or it fails to pass through a barricaded door.
Alien models cannot move into a space containing an alien 
model or a blip token.
When an alien model moves into or starts its move in a space 
next to a character, before the alien attacks, all characters 
up to 4 spaces away and within LOS of the alien may shoot 
defensive fire. 
Starting with the character closest to the alien, players take 
turns taking a normal attack action against it. Exhaust any 
required cards and reduce aim dial numbers as usual.
If the alien model survives the defensive fire, the target 
character must immediately defend itself from the alien attack.
DEFENSE ROLL: The player rolls the marine die; if the result 
is equal to or less than the character’s DEFENSE, they survive 
the attack. Add +1 to the roll for each alien token the alien has.
A character who fails a defense roll against a facehugger attack 
is not killed or captured. Instead, place a facehugger token on 
their card; if the character survives it is counted as killed at the 
end of the game.
COUNTERATTACK: If that roll’s result is also equal or less then 
the character’s MELEE, they kill the attacking alien. If the alien 
has any alien tokens under it, remove one of those instead.
FAILED DEFENSE: If the character fails its defense roll, they 
get knocked down. If you roll a 10 or more when defending, the 
character is killed and removed from the game.
KNOCKED DOWN
When a character is knocked down, place the model on its side. 
The character must skip all actions, cannot shoot defensive fire, 
but still make a defense roll if they are attacked. They stand up 
automatically at the start of an Alien turn if there are no alien 
models in the spaces next to them.
A knocked down character that starts an Alien turn with at least 
1 alien model in a space next to them is captured and removed 
from play, along with one of the alien models next to them and 
any alien tokens it has. Captured characters may be rescued by 
playing the Rescue mission.
LOSING A HERO
When a HERO character is killed or captured, that player 
discards all cards they have in their hand and all cards 
equipped on the lost character. They then choose a GRUNT 
character to flip over and play as a HERO character. If there 
are no more GRUNTS left, that player is eliminated. The 
character’s aim dial stays on the number it was on. Reset the 
aim dial at the start of the character’s activation as normal.
After all alien models have been activated, choose a board and 
activate all of the blip tokens on it before choosing the next 
board, and so on. Activate the blips one at a time, starting with 
the blip closest to the characters and working outwards. If 2 or 
more are the same distance from a character, the player with 
the highest rank chooses which blip activates first.
When activated, a blip always moves, then any aliens placed 
from the blip will finish their move and attack if able. Complete 
a blip’s full activation before moving on to the next one. Blips 
only activate once per turn.
After choosing a board, roll the alien die. All of the blips on that 
board have SPEED equal to that result for this turn. Blip tokens 
move and stop in the same way as aliens. They cannot move 
into a space containing an alien model or a blip token.
SPOTTING BLIPS
A blip token is spotted when it comes into LOS of a character. 
Flip it faceup; if the number revealed is 1, replace the blip token 
with an alien model. If the number revealed is greater than 
one, it becomes an alien swarm. Replace the blip token with an 
alien model and put alien tokens below it so that the total of the 
model and tokens in the stack is equal to the revealed number. 
Finally, shuffle the blip token back into the blip token pool.
Spotting a blip token might briefly interrupt another model’s 
movement or its own movement. As soon as it is spotted, the 
interrupted movement is suspended while the spotting is 
resolved. Then the interrupted model completes its movement.
After a blip has been spotted and resolved, the alien model will 
complete its movement and attack if possible just like those 
during the Activate Aliens step.
ALIEN SWARMS
Alien swarms move just like an alien model. When attacking, an 
alien swarm adds +1 to the target character’s defense roll for 
each alien token in its stack. 
When an alien swarm is hit by a weapon or in melee, remove an 
alien token instead of removing the model. If a swarm loses all 
its alien tokens, it becomes a normal alien model.
In a 1 player game, draw 2 cards. In a 2-4 player game, draw 
a total of 3 cards, and in a 5+ player game, draw a total of 4 
cards. If there are more or fewer cards than their are players, 
the highest ranking player (and the one to their left if necessary) 
draw one more or fewer cards than the other players. If the deck 
runs out, shuffle the discards to form a new deck.
Each card tells you how many and where blip tokens are 
spawned, and may also have a special effect. Unless otherwise 
stated, aliens do not attack when moved by a motion tracker 
card. Discard the card after it is resolved. 
TUNNEL cards place tunnel tokens on the board. If a 
player draws more than 1 card requiring them to place a 
tunnel marker in the same turn, only place a single 
marker, but follow the rest of the instructions. 
HIDDEN THREAT cards gain a bonus if its blips are 
not placed in LOS of a character.
ACTIVE THREAT cards gain a bonus if its blips are 
placed in LOS of a character.
DRONE cards have various effects.
Each motion tracker card has a blip number (the number of blip 
tokens that the card spawns into play) and a spawn location 
number (which spawn point the blips will be placed on).
Randomly draw the indicated number of blip tokens from the 
pool and place them, one at a time, facedown on the spawn point 
(or as close as possible), 1 blip in each space. If there are not 
enough empty spaces, place the blip in the closest empty space, 
even if it is on the other side of any characters from the spawn 
point. Blip tokens can never be stacked If there is a choice where 
a blip is placed, the highest ranking player chooses.
If a blip token is spotted when it is spawned, immediately 
resolve the spotting as normal (these aliens do not move or 
attack until the Activate Aliens step in the next Alien phase).
Whenever you need to place a blip and there are none left to 
place, instead move every blip in the game 3 spaces.
Immediately resolve any card abilities that take place during 
this step. You can decide what order these happen.
If you have met all of the mission requirements, the marines 
win. If all characters been killed, knocked down, or captured, 
the aliens win. If neither applies, the mission continues.
3: CLEAN UP
If the mission uses a turn dial, turn it to the next number and 
then start the next turn.

MOVE 
Move up to your SPEED in board spaces. You may move in 
any direction, including diagonally. You may not move through 
walls, barricaded doors, impassable terrain (a thick white line), 
or alien models. You can move through other characters but 
you may not end your movement in the same space as another 
character. You must immediately stop your move action if you 
enter a space next to an alien model or blip token.
Attack alien models with your weapons. You can attack any 
alien model or token in LOS with one of your equipped weapon 
cards. You may shoot through aliens but not through characters. 
Roll a marine die; if the result is equal to or under the number 
on your aim dial, you kill the target alien. 
Remove the alien model from play, or if the alien model has any 
alien tokens under it, remove one of those instead. If you roll a 
number higher than your aim dial’s number, your attack misses.
A model has LOS to another model, token, or an object on the 
board if it can draw a straight line from any part of their space to 
any part of the target’s space without passing through another 
standing character, wall, or closed/barricaded door.
LOS can pass through the diagonal corner between a character 
and a wall or another character, provided that the model 
drawing the LOS is adjacent to that corner.
Barricade or unbarricade a door, spawn point, or tunnel. You 
must be in an adjacent space and pass a tech test. If you pass, 
place a barricade marker, or remove such a marker if it has one.
Alien models and blip tokens that must go through a barricaded 
door to reach a character will stop in a space next to the 
barricade and try and tear it down. Roll the alien die; on a 5+, 
remove the barricade marker and the alien/blip continues any 
remaining movement. On any other roll, the alien/blip fails to 
break through and immediately ends its turn.
If a blip enters play at a barricaded tunnel token or spawn point, 
roll the alien die. On a 5+, remove the barricade marker and 
place the blip. Otherwise, discard the blip token. If more than 1 
blip enters play at the same point, roll for each in turn until they 
remove the barricade marker or all blip tokens are discarded.
Increase your aim dial by +1. The number may be higher than 
your starting AIM, but it cannot fall below 1 or go above 10.
Interact with something on the board. If the mission specifies 
an object or space with which you can interact, you may take 
this action if you are in a space next to it.
Draw cards and/or recycle exhausted cards. A HERO may draw 
up to 2 cards from the endurance deck and then may recycle 
up to 3 cards from the exhaust pile or their hand. A GRUNT may 
recycle 3 cards from the exhaust pile, but does not draw cards.
WEAPON cards give characters the ability to defend 
themselves against alien attacks. 
EQUIPMENT cards give characters abilities to help them 
with tasks or give them protection against aliens.
EVENT cards can be played at any time (even during 
another player’s or the aliens’ turn). Pay the cost, follow 
its instructions, then place it facedown on top of the 
exhaust pile.
HAZARD cards must be resolved when drawn or 
revealed, except if a motion tracker card reveals them. 
REVEALING CARDS
To reveal a card, flip the top card of the endurance deck and 
check its card type:
MATCHING: If the revealed card type is one you are looking for, 
resolve any game effects matching the revealed card’s type.
NOT MATCHING: If the revealed card type is not one of the 
card types needed, nothing happens.
HAZARD: If the revealed card type is a hazard, after resolving 
the reveal, immediately resolve the hazard.
After the effect is resolved, place the revealed card on the 
bottom of the endurance deck under the reshuffle card.
If there are no cards left in the endurance deck, use the exhaust 
pile to reveal cards instead, returning the revealed card to the 
RESHUFFLE CARD
When the reshuffle card reaches the top of the endurance deck, 
shuffle all of the cards under the reshuffle card and place them 
on top of the reshuffle card to create a new endurance deck.
To exhaust a card, move the top card from the endurance deck, 
without looking at it, facedown to the top of the exhaust pile.
If you must exhaust cards, you must first exhaust as many as 
possible from the endurance deck. If, at any point, there are no 
cards left in that deck, you must discard the remaining number 
of cards from the exhaust pile into the discard pile instead.
When you play a card you must pay that card’s cost by 
exhausting the indicated number of cards. 
Any time there are no cards in both the endurance deck and the 
To recycle a card, move the top card from the exhaust pile to 
the bottom of the endurance deck. To recycle cards from your 
hand, place the cards facedown under the endurance deck.
To discard cards, take the required amount of cards from either 
your hand or the endurance deck and place them faceup on the 
If a hazard card is discarded in this way, immediately resolve it.
If you are instructed to discard cards from your hand, you may 
only discard them from your hand. If you must discard a card 
and there are no cards left in the endurance deck or your hand, 
you must discard a card from the top of the exhaust pile instead.
PASSIVE: Always active and can be used at any time, even in 
the Alien phase.
ON ACTIVATION: Resolved as soon as the character is activated.
DURING ACTIVATION: Resolved once each time the character 
is activated, at any time during their activation.
END OF ACTIVATION: Resolved at the end of the character’s 
activation.
START OF FINISH PHASE: Resolved at the end of each turn.
ACTION: This card uses one of a character’s actions to play.
FREE ACTION: This card does not use one of a character’s 
actions to play, and can only be used during their activation.
BACKUP: This weapon can be fired instead of your main 
weapon. You may only have 1 such weapon equipped at once.
BULKY: While this weapon is equipped you cannot equip a 
BACKUP weapon.
CLOSE: See the weapon card for how to fire this weapon.
CUMBERSOME: This weapon cannot be fired as defensive fire 
during the Alien phase.
FULL AUTO: After making a successful hit with this weapon, 
you may exhaust 1 endurance card to make another attack, 
decreasing the aim dial by 1 for the extra attack. You can 
continue making attacks until you miss or stop. FULL AUTO can 
be used with defensive fire but only against the same swarm. 
GRENADE: This keyword is referenced by other cards, like the 
M41A Pulse Rifle.
BOARD ELEMENTS
SPACES
The spaces where models can walk on the boards are squares 
outlined with fine white lines (some have irregular edges, but 
these are still considered spaces). Areas with a thick white line do 
not block LOS, but are impassable and cannot be moved through.
WALLS
Models cannot move through walls and they block LOS. Walls 
are indicated by a heavy black line or shape and do not have 
grids on them. Characters and aliens can never interact with 
things on the other side of a wall.
DOORS
Doors are located between 2 spaces, and act like walls while 
they are closed. They do not block LOS or movement when 
open. Doors automatically open when any model or blip is in a 
space touching the door, and close again if no model or blip is 
next to it. Door posts do not block LOS but do block diagonal 
movement.
BARRICADED DOORS
These are permanently closed doors marked with the 
BARRICADED token that act like walls. Models cannot move or 
see through them (but they can attempt to break through them). 
MISSION RULES
CAMPAIGN PLAY
Missions can be played individually, but you can also play them 
in sequence as a campaign. 
During a campaign, play through each mission in order (Mission 
1: Newt > Mission 2: Escape > Mission 3: Survive), keeping 
track of character losses and discarded endurance cards 
from game to game. You can also play the Rescue mission and 
Resupply mission between normal campaign missions. 
Setup and play each mission as normal. However, after each 
game you will have less resources to work with. If you fail to win 
a mission, you lose the campaign.
LOSING ENDURANCE CARDS
After completing a mission:
1. 	Each player searches the discard pile and selects 1 card to 
return to the endurance deck.
2. 	Return all hazard cards in the discard pile to the endurance 
3. 	Shuffle the discard pile and remove half (round up) of these 
cards from the game. They are not used for the remainder of 
the campaign. 
4. 	Return the remaining cards in the discard pile to the 
endurance deck to be used in the next mission.
Characters killed in a campaign mission are removed from the 
game and cannot be used for the rest of the campaign.
FINAL CAMPAIGN SCORE
After the final mission of the campaign, determine your final 
campaign score:
1.	 Put the exhaust pile and all cards in the players’ hands on 
top of the endurance deck.
2.	 Discard 5 cards from the endurance deck for each character 
(other than Newt) that was killed (including any facehugger 
victims) or is still captured at the end of the campaign.
3.	 Discard 10 cards if Newt was killed during the campaign, 
or return 10 discarded or removed cards to the top of the 
endurance deck if she survives.
4.	 Remove the discard pile from play.
5.	 Your final score is equal to the number of cards remaining 
in the endurance deck.
EXTRA MISSIONS
RESCUE MISSIONS
During a campaign, you may attempt the Rescue mission 
between missions to rescue captured characters. If successful, 
the rescued characters return to the game. 
You can attempt this mission as many times as desired as long 
as you have captured characters. 
RESUPPLY MISSION
During a campaign, you can play the Resupply mission to try 
and get endurance cards back. 
You may only attempt a resupply mission once in each campaign.
BUG HUNT MISSIONS 
Bug Hunt missions are standalone games that pit your marines 
against the aliens in a fight to the death. Your marines must 
survive until all of the cards in the motion tracker deck are gone 
and all alien models and blip tokens have been killed. If at least 
1 character survives, all the players win. If all the characters are 
killed or you run out of endurance cards, all the players lose.
Characters do not get any starting equipment or weapons 
other than an HK VP70 Pistol each. Do not use Newt in these 
missions.
MISSION TOKENS
SENTRY GUNS
Sentry guns are used in Mission 3: Survive, and all of the Bug 
Hunt missions. Set their dials to 450 at the start of the game.
During setup, place the sentry gun tokens anywhere on the 
board, facing in any direction. Sentry guns can only shoot at 
targets forward of their token, and have no LOS to models 
directly to their sides or behind.
Whenever an alien or character model or a blip token moves 
while in LOS of a sentry gun, it shoots at them. If it misses and 
the target keeps moving, it shoots again for each space the 
target moves until the target leaves its LOS. Do not flip blip 
tokens that are being shot at by a sentry gun; the number of 
aliens in the blip remains unknown.
When a sentry gun shoots, the player with the highest rank rolls 
2 marine dice, discarding the higher result. If the score is 7 or 
less, everything in the target space is killed.
Each time a sentry gun shoots, lower its corresponding dial 
down to the next number. Once it reaches 0 it runs out of 
ammunition and can no longer shoot.
FACEHUGGERS
Facehuggers act like alien models in every way, but when a 
character fails its defense roll against a facehugger attack, 
they are not killed. Instead, place a facehugger token on that 
If the character survives this mission, it is nevertheless counted 
as killed at the end of this campaign.

Highest ranked MARINE character chooses a player to start 
the phase and gives them the activation token. 
CHARACTER ACTIVATION
A player receiving the activation token activates their hero:
1: RESOLVE ON ACTIVATION ABILITIES
EQUIP WEAPONS/EQUIPMENTS from your hand onto 
empty slots on your character card (pay the card’s cost).
UNEQUIP CARDS to your hand.
EQUIP OTHER CHARACTERS within 2 spaces with weapon/
equipment cards in your hand (pay the card’s cost).
Perform 2 actions. If a card effect gives you an free action, 
this is in addition to the 2 you can normally take. You can only 
take each free action once each time you are activated.
equal to or under your TECH, you pass. 
4: RESOLVE END OF ACTIVATION ABILITIES
After a MARINE hero character activates, they can activate 
a number of GRUNT characters equal to their rank.
Pass the activation token to the player to your left if they have 
not activated this turn. If they have, give it to the player with 
the highest rank, who activates any unactivated GRUNTS. 
Activate all aliens one at a time, starting with the alien 
closest to the marines and working outwards. An alien always 
moves and then attacks if able. 
ALIEN MOVEMENT (SPEED 6) 
If an alien is not in a space next to a character, it moves; 
otherwise, it attacks. Aliens move towards the closest 
character (even knocked down ones) by the shortest route, 
and stop moving when they run out of SPEED; move into or 
start its move in a space next to a character; or fail to pass 
through a barricaded door. They cannot move into an alien 
model or blip token space.
When an alien moves into or starts its move in a space next to 
a character, before it attacks, all characters within 4 spaces 
and LOS may shoot defensive fire. Start with the closest 
character and take turns taking a normal attack action. 
If the alien survives, the target character must make a 
defense roll. Roll the marine die and add +1 for each alien 
token the alien has; if the result is equal to or less than your 
DEFENSE, you survive. 
If the result is also equal or less then the your MELEE, you 
kill the alien (or 1 token). If you fail your defense roll, you are 
knocked down. If you roll a 10+, you are killed.
Knocked down characters are placed on their side, must skip 
all actions and defensive fire, but can still make defense rolls. 
They stand up automatically at the start of an Alien turn if 
there are no alien models in the spaces next to them.
A knocked down character that starts an Alien turn with at 
least 1 alien next to them is captured and removed from play, 
along with 1 of the aliens (plus alien tokens) next to them. 
Choose each board in turn, activating all the blips on it one 
at a time, starting with the blip closest to the characters and 
working outwards. An activated blip always moves and then 
attacks if able. 
After choosing a board, roll the alien die. All of the blips on 
that board have SPEED equal to that result for this turn. 
They move and stop in the same way as aliens, and cannot 
move into an alien model or blip token space.
A blip token is spotted as soon as it comes into LOS of a 
character. Flip it faceup and place an alien model and a 
number of alien tokens, in total equal to the number shown. 
Then shuffle the blip token back into the blip token pool.
1 player: draw 2 cards. 
2-4 players: draw a total of 3 cards. 
5+ players: draw a total of 4 cards. 
If a card causes you to reveal a hazard card, place the hazard 
card in the exhaust pile without resolving it.
Randomly draw the indicated number of blip tokens and 
place them, one at a time, facedown on the spawn point, 
or as close to it as possible, 1 blip in each space. If a blip 
token is spotted when it is spawned, immediately resolve the 
spotting as normal. Whenever you need to place a blip and 
there are none left, instead move every blip 3 spaces.
3: ADVANCE THE TURN DIAL
MOVE Move up to your SPEED in board spaces in any 
direction, including diagonally. You may not move through 
walls, barricaded doors, impassable terrain (a thick white 
line), or alien models. You can move through other characters 
but you may not end your movement in the same space as 
another character. You must immediately stop your move 
action if you enter a space next to an alien or blip token.
Attack any alien in LOS with an equipped weapon. You may 
shoot through aliens but not through characters. 
Roll a marine die; if the result is equal to or under the 
number on your aim dial, remove the alien model, or if it has 
any alien tokens under it, remove one of them instead. 
Attempt to barricade or unbarricade an adjacent door, 
spawn point, or tunnel. If you pass a tech test, place a 
barricade marker on it, or remove a marker if it has one.
Highest ranked MARINE character chooses a player to start 
the phase and gives them the activation token. 
CHARACTER ACTIVATION
A player receiving the activation token activates their hero:
1: RESOLVE ON ACTIVATION ABILITIES
EQUIP WEAPONS/EQUIPMENTS from your hand onto 
empty slots on your character card (pay the card’s cost).
UNEQUIP CARDS to your hand.
EQUIP OTHER CHARACTERS within 2 spaces with weapon/
equipment cards in your hand (pay the card’s cost).
Perform 2 actions. If a card effect gives you an free action, 
this is in addition to the 2 you can normally take. You can only 
take each free action once each time you are activated.
equal to or under your TECH, you pass. 
4: RESOLVE END OF ACTIVATION ABILITIES
After a MARINE hero character activates, they can activate 
a number of GRUNT characters equal to their rank.
Pass the activation token to the player to your left if they have 
not activated this turn. If they have, give it to the player with 
the highest rank, who activates any unactivated GRUNTS. 
Activate all aliens one at a time, starting with the alien 
closest to the marines and working outwards. An alien always 
moves and then attacks if able. 
ALIEN MOVEMENT (SPEED 6) 
If an alien is not in a space next to a character, it moves; 
otherwise, it attacks. Aliens move towards the closest 
character (even knocked down ones) by the shortest route, 
and stop moving when they run out of SPEED; move into or 
start its move in a space next to a character; or fail to pass 
through a barricaded door. They cannot move into an alien 
model or blip token space.
When an alien moves into or starts its move in a space next to 
a character, before it attacks, all characters within 4 spaces 
and LOS may shoot defensive fire. Start with the closest 
character and take turns taking a normal attack action. 
If the alien survives, the target character must make a 
defense roll. Roll the marine die and add +1 for each alien 
token the alien has; if the result is equal to or less than your 
DEFENSE, you survive. 
If the result is also equal or less then the your MELEE, you 
kill the alien (or 1 token). If you fail your defense roll, you are 
knocked down. If you roll a 10+, you are killed.
Knocked down characters are placed on their side, must skip 
all actions and defensive fire, but can still make defense rolls. 
They stand up automatically at the start of an Alien turn if 
there are no alien models in the spaces next to them.
A knocked down character that starts an Alien turn with at 
least 1 alien next to them is captured and removed from play, 
along with 1 of the aliens (plus alien tokens) next to them. 
Choose each board in turn, activating all the blips on it one 
at a time, starting with the blip closest to the characters and 
working outwards. An activated blip always moves and then 
attacks if able. 
After choosing a board, roll the alien die. All of the blips on 
that board have SPEED equal to that result for this turn. 
They move and stop in the same way as aliens, and cannot 
move into an alien model or blip token space.
A blip token is spotted as soon as it comes into LOS of a 
character. Flip it faceup and place an alien model and a 
number of alien tokens, in total equal to the number shown. 
Then shuffle the blip token back into the blip token pool.
1 player: draw 2 cards. 
2-4 players: draw a total of 3 cards. 
5+ players: draw a total of 4 cards. 
If a card causes you to reveal a hazard card, place the hazard 
card in the exhaust pile without resolving it.
Randomly draw the indicated number of blip tokens and 
place them, one at a time, facedown on the spawn point, 
or as close to it as possible, 1 blip in each space. If a blip 
token is spotted when it is spawned, immediately resolve the 
spotting as normal. Whenever you need to place a blip and 
there are none left, instead move every blip 3 spaces.
3: ADVANCE THE TURN DIAL
MOVE Move up to your SPEED in board spaces in any 
direction, including diagonally. You may not move through 
walls, barricaded doors, impassable terrain (a thick white 
line), or alien models. You can move through other characters 
but you may not end your movement in the same space as 
another character. You must immediately stop your move 
action if you enter a space next to an alien or blip token.
Attack any alien in LOS with an equipped weapon. You may 
shoot through aliens but not through characters. 
Roll a marine die; if the result is equal to or under the 
number on your aim dial, remove the alien model, or if it has 
any alien tokens under it, remove one of them instead. 
Attempt to barricade or unbarricade an adjacent door, 
spawn point, or tunnel. If you pass a tech test, place a 
barricade marker on it, or remove a marker if it has one.

Aliens and blip tokens that must go through a barricaded 
door to reach a character stop in a space next to the 
barricade and roll the alien die: on 5+, remove the barricade 
and the alien/blip continues any remaining movement. 
If a blip would enter play at a barricaded tunnel token or spawn 
point, roll the alien die. On 5+, remove the barricade marker 
and place the blip. On any other roll, discard the blip token.
Increase your aim dial by +1. 
Interact with something on the board. 
Draw cards and/or recycle exhausted cards. A HERO may 
draw up to 2 cards from the endurance deck (there is no 
hand limit) and then may recycle up to 3 cards from the 
exhaust pile or their hand. A GRUNT may recycle 3 cards 
from the exhaust pile, but does not draw cards.
When you play or equip a card you must pay that card’s cost 
(shown to the right of the card’s type) by exhausting the 
indicated number of cards. 
If there are no cards in both the endurance deck and the 
To discard cards, place the required amount of cards from 
either your hand or the endurance deck faceup on the 
If a hazard card is discarded in this way, resolve it.
If you must discard a card and there are no cards left in the 
endurance deck or your hand, you must discard a card from 
the top of the exhaust pile instead.
PASSIVE: Always active; can be used at any time.
ON ACTIVATION: As soon as you are activated.
DURING ACTIVATION: Once each time you are activated, 
at any time during your activation.
END OF ACTIVATION: At the end of your activation.
START OF FINISH PHASE: At the end of each game turn.
ACTION: Uses one of your actions to play.
FREE ACTION: Does not use an action to play.
BACKUP: Can be fired instead of your main weapon. 
You may only have 1 such weapon equipped at once.
BULKY: While equipped you cannot equip a BACKUP weapon.
CUMBERSOME: Cannot be fired as defensive fire during the 
Alien phase.
FULL AUTO: After a successful hit, you may exhaust 1 
endurance card to make another attack. You may continue 
making attacks until you miss or stop. Can be used with 
defensive fire but only against the same swarm.
ULTIMATE BADASSES: EXPERIENCE
There are 6 experience paths: COMPANY MAN, GUNNER, 
HERO, LEADER, SMARTS, and SUPPORT. Each path has 
three lvl 1 cards, three lvl 2 cards, and two lvl 3 cards.
During a campaign, each player gains 1 experience card at 
the start of each mission. During a bug hunt, each player 
gains 1 experience card at the start of the Marine phase on 
every fifth turn.
You can choose a lvl 1 card from any path. To gain a lvl 2 
card you must already have a lvl 1 card from the same path, 
and to gain a lvl 3 card you must already have a lvl 2 card 
from the same path. You can never have 2 lvl 3 experience 
cards. When your character dies or you change characters, 
experience cards transfer to your new character.
Aliens and blip tokens that must go through a barricaded 
door to reach a character stop in a space next to the 
barricade and roll the alien die: on 5+, remove the barricade 
and the alien/blip continues any remaining movement. 
If a blip would enter play at a barricaded tunnel token or spawn 
point, roll the alien die. On 5+, remove the barricade marker 
and place the blip. On any other roll, discard the blip token.
Increase your aim dial by +1. 
Interact with something on the board. 
Draw cards and/or recycle exhausted cards. A HERO may 
draw up to 2 cards from the endurance deck (there is no 
hand limit) and then may recycle up to 3 cards from the 
exhaust pile or their hand. A GRUNT may recycle 3 cards 
from the exhaust pile, but does not draw cards.
When you play or equip a card you must pay that card’s cost 
(shown to the right of the card’s type) by exhausting the 
indicated number of cards. 
If there are no cards in both the endurance deck and the 
To discard cards, place the required amount of cards from 
either your hand or the endurance deck faceup on the 
If a hazard card is discarded in this way, resolve it.
If you must discard a card and there are no cards left in the 
endurance deck or your hand, you must discard a card from 
the top of the exhaust pile instead.
PASSIVE: Always active; can be used at any time.
ON ACTIVATION: As soon as you are activated.
DURING ACTIVATION: Once each time you are activated, 
at any time during your activation.
END OF ACTIVATION: At the end of your activation.
START OF FINISH PHASE: At the end of each game turn.
ACTION: Uses one of your actions to play.
FREE ACTION: Does not use an action to play.
BACKUP: Can be fired instead of your main weapon. 
You may only have 1 such weapon equipped at once.
BULKY: While equipped you cannot equip a BACKUP weapon.
CUMBERSOME: Cannot be fired as defensive fire during the 
Alien phase.
FULL AUTO: After a successful hit, you may exhaust 1 
endurance card to make another attack. You may continue 
making attacks until you miss or stop. Can be used with 
defensive fire but only against the same swarm.
ULTIMATE BADASSES: EXPERIENCE
There are 6 experience paths: COMPANY MAN, GUNNER, 
HERO, LEADER, SMARTS, and SUPPORT. Each path has 
three lvl 1 cards, three lvl 2 cards, and two lvl 3 cards.
During a campaign, each player gains 1 experience card at 
the start of each mission. During a bug hunt, each player 
gains 1 experience card at the start of the Marine phase on 
every fifth turn.
You can choose a lvl 1 card from any path. To gain a lvl 2 
card you must already have a lvl 1 card from the same path, 
and to gain a lvl 3 card you must already have a lvl 2 card 
from the same path. You can never have 2 lvl 3 experience 
cards. When your character dies or you change characters, 
experience cards transfer to your new character.
ENDURANCE
RECYCLE
COST = 
EXHAUST THAT MANY CARDS
REVEAL
WEAPONS 
EQUIPMENT 
EVENTS Play at any time: pay the 
cost, resolve, then place facedown 
on top of the exhaust pile.
HAZARDS Resolve when drawn/
revealed, except if revealed by a 
motion tracker card. 
Reveal cards from the exhaust pile if 
there are none in the endurance deck.
When exhausting cards, if there are 
none left in the endurance deck, 
discard the rest from the exhaust pile 
into the discard pile instead.
To recycle cards from your hand, place 
them facedown under the endurance 
ENDURANCE
RECYCLE
COST = 
EXHAUST THAT MANY CARDS
REVEAL
WEAPONS 
EQUIPMENT 
EVENTS Play at any time: pay the 
cost, resolve, then place facedown 
on top of the exhaust pile.
HAZARDS Resolve when drawn/
revealed, except if revealed by a 
motion tracker card. 
Reveal cards from the exhaust pile if 
there are none in the endurance deck.
When exhausting cards, if there are 
none left in the endurance deck, 
discard the rest from the exhaust pile 
into the discard pile instead.
To recycle cards from your hand, place 
them facedown under the endurance 
FACEUP
FACEDOWN

GET AWAY FROM HER YOU B***H
EXTENDED CAMPAIGN
The new campaign missions can be played individually or linked 
together to form an extended campaign by playing though each 
mission in order, starting with Mission 1: Newt and concluding 
with Mission 5: Sulaco. As normal, you may launch a Rescue 
mission or Resupply mission between campaign missions.
When you play the longer campaign, or the bigger Bug Hunt 
missions, add the new endurance cards (except the Alien 
Queen cards) to the endurance deck and the new mission 
tracker cards to the motion tracker deck. You may also use the 
experience cards from the Ultimate Badasses expansion.
When playing Mission 4: Retrieve and Mission 5: Sulaco, or Bug 
Hunts involving the alien queen, add the 10 Alien Queen motion 
tracker cards to the motion tracker deck.
As an added challenge, you can also play APC Chase in 
between campaign missions 2 and 3.
ALIEN HIVE PLAYER You can add an extra player to your 
campaign or bug hunts to play as the Alien Hive. If so, also add 
the experience cards from the Ultimate Badasses expansion.
THE ALIEN HIVE
You can play with one person playing as the Alien Hive. Use the 
Alien Phase and Willpower Actions card as a reference.
The Hive player takes the hivemind deck, the hive hazard 
cards, and the willpower dial in the hive card organizer. They 
then separate out the Nature cards from the hivemind deck and 
select one at random as the starting hive nature, then shuffle 
the rest back into the hivemind deck. Set the willpower dial to 4.
Hive hazard cards are added to the endurance deck or placed 
on characters during the game as a result of cards in the 
hivemind deck. They are hazard cards for all purposes.
The Hive player uses the willpower dial to keep track of how 
much willpower they have available. The Hive player starts 
the game with 4 willpower, and can never have more then 
10 willpower at any time. Once they reach 10 willpower, they 
cannot gain any more willpower until they spend some.
As the Hive player you may always look at facedown blips in play, 
and the topmost motion tracker card of the motion tracker deck.
Whenever there is a tie for where an alien model or blip will be 
placed or move, or who they will attack, the Hive player choses 
where they will be placed or move, or who they will attack. 
ALIEN PHASE: HIVEMIND STEP
Add the Hivemind step at the start of the Alien phase:
A. GAIN 4 WILLPOWER
B. DRAW A HIVEMIND CARD
When you draw the last hivemind card, shuffle the hivemind 
discard pile to create a new deck.
C. USE WILLPOWER
The Hive player may spend willpower to take willpower actions 
or to play hivemind cards. You can take as many actions and 
play as many cards as you wish, as long as you have enough 
willpower to pay for them.
Willpower actions cost the amount shown below. When you use 
willpower actions to move an alien model, you may move it in 
any direction. You can only move the alien queen once in each 
hive phase. 
MOVE (1): Move an alien model (other than the alien queen) or 
blip token 1 space.
DRAW (2): Draw a hivemind card.
SWAP BLIPS (2): Choose 2 blip tokens on the board and 
swap them.
REORDER DECK (2): Put the topmost motion tracker card on 
the bottom of the deck.
MOVE QUEEN (3): Move the alien queen model up to 3 spaces 
(limit once per Hivemind step).
HEAL QUEEN (1): Remove 1 damage token from the alien queen.
Hivemind cards cost the amount shown on the card. Nature 
cards have continuous effects; if you play a Nature card, you 
must discard any other Nature card in play. Instinct cards are 
resolved then discarded. Reaction cards can only be played 
when the situation described arises, and the Hive player can 
only play 1 reaction card per turn.
D. DISCARD TO HAND SIZE
If you have more than 3 hivemind cards, discard down to 3.
MOVING LARGE MODELS
The power loader and the alien queen occupy a square of 4 
spaces. These spaces cannot contain another large model, and 
cannot be separated by walls or barricaded doors. To move a 
large model, move it 1 space at a time (including diagonally) so 
it still occupies 4 legal spaces at each point in its move.
If the large model ends its movement with a smaller friendly 
model under it, move the friendly models 1 space in any 
direction to make room for the large model. If it is impossible to 
move all friendly models out of the way, the large model cannot 
move into that space. If the queen is moving and there is no 
Hive player, the player with the highest rank moves the alien 
models out of the way.
ALIEN QUEEN
In the Activate Aliens step of the alien phase, the alien queen 
moves and acts like any other alien. She ignores characters she 
cannot reach when determining where she will move.
When attacking, the queen can attack characters within 2 
spaces, but will choose the closest character if there is a choice. 
Characters attacked by the queen add +3 to their defense rolls.
Characters can take attack actions against the queen in the 
normal way. However, each time the queen would be killed by 
an attack or counterattack, she gains a damage token instead.
When playing a campaign mission, the queen does not activate 
if she starts the Alien phase with 6 or more damage tokens. 
Instead, she removes all damage tokens. The queen can only be 
killed in a campaign mission by throwing her out of the airlock. 
When playing a bug hunt mission, the queen is mortally 
wounded when she has 15 or more damage tokens. If she is 
mortally wounded at the start of an Alien phase, she and all 
alien models and blip tokens go into a frenzy and move an 
additional 2 spaces. At the end of that Alien phase, the queen is 
killed and removed from the game (even if she removes damage 
tokens using willpower).
P-5000 POWER LOADER
Any character may mount an empty power loader by taking an 
interact action next to an empty power loader model. Return 
any non-backup weapon attached to that character to your 
hand, place the power loader stats overlay on the character’s 
card, and remove the character’s model from the game. That 
character now counts the power loader as their model.
The character’s speed, defense and melee stats are replaced 
by those on the overlay. You cannot equip a character mounted 
in the power loader with a non-backup weapon.
To dismount from the power loader, take an interact action. 
Remove the overlay from the character’s card and place their 
model anywhere within 1 space of the power loader. It is now 
empty and can be mounted by a different character.
You can take an attack action with the power loader against 
any alien model in a space next to it. Roll the marine die.: if you 
roll under your aim dial’s number, you hit. If you attacked the 
queen, immediately move the queen 2 spaces in any direction, 
then move the power loader to stay adjacent to it. If you 
attacked any other alien model, remove it from play along with 
any alien tokens under it. 
If you rolled a 2 or less you may immediately make another 
attack using the power loader. 
After making an attack with the power loader decrease your 
aim dial by 2 instead of 1.
Alien models attack a character in the power loader in the 
normal way. If a character in the power loader fails a defense 
roll, instead of being knocked down, they are pushed back 2 
spaces directly away from the attacker (or as far as possible, if 
less). If they roll a 10 or more, the character is killed. Remove 
the overlay from the character; the power loader is now empty.
When Ripley or Enraged Ripley is in the power loader, she gains 
-1 to her defense rolls.
M577 ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIER
The APC occupies a 3x7 rectangle of spaces. These spaces 
cannot contain impassable terrain or a large model, and cannot 
be separated by walls.
The M557 APC can only be entered or exited through its door. 
All other edges of the APC are walls which cannot be moved, 
attacked, or interacted through. If any character entered 
or exited the APC during the Marine phase, the APC door is 
open during the Alien phase. Otherwise it is closed. Aliens can 
attempt to open the APC door for the rest of the Alien phase in 
the same way they would remove a barricade marker.
If the APC moves, all models and tokens in the APC move with 
it.
Alien, alien queen models, and blips treat the APC as a 
character when moving and attacking. So, if the APC is closer 
than any other character, they will move towards the APC, and 
blips that move into LOS of the APC are revealed.
Alien models attack the APC as if it were a character. The APC 
has a defense of 5 and a melee of 2. If it fails a defense roll, it 
gains a damage token instead of being killed or knocked down. 
There are 5 specific crew positions in the APC. Characters in 
the other spaces can repair the vehicle.
DRIVER
A character in the driver’s space may take an interact action 
and perform a tech test. If they pass, the APC can move up to 5 
spaces, otherwise it can only move 3 spaces. The APC’s speed 
is reduced by 1 for each damage token it has. 
The APC can move forward or backwards (including diagonally, 
but not sideways). Move it 1 space at a time so that it still 
occupies legal spaces at each point in its move.
The APC does not have to stop its movement when it enters 
a space adjacent to an alien model (other than the queen). If 
it moves into a space containing an alien model, that model 
immediately resolves an attack against the APC and is then 
killed. If it was a swarm, all of the aliens in the swarm are killed.
If the APC ends its movement with a character under it, the 
player moves the character 1 space in any direction to make 
room for the APC. If it is not possible to move all characters out 
of the way, the APC cannot move into that space. 
If the APC moves through a barricaded door, remove the 
barricade.
TURRET GUNNERS
A character in the front or rear turret gunner’s space may take 
an attack action with their turret. Exhaust 3 cards and roll 2 
marine dice, discarding the highest result. A roll of 7 or less kills 
an alien model and any tokens under it. The target number to 
kill an alien model is reduced by 1 for each damage token it has.
Turret weapons can only target spaces outside the APC. The 
front turret draws its LOS from the front turret gunner space, 
ignoring parts of the APC in front of or to the right of that space. 
The rear turret draws its LOC from the rear turret gunner space, 
ignoring the whole APC.
DOOR GUNNER
A character in the door gunner’s space may take an attack 
action with their weapon against aliens outside the APC. If they 
do, the APC door is open during the Alien phase. Characters in 
other spaces can only take attack actions against aliens inside 
the APC.
SCANNER
A character in the scanner’s space may take an interact action 
and perform a tech test. If they pass, you may look at any 1 
blip token.
REPAIR
A character in a repair space may take an interact action and 
perform a tech test to repair the APC. If they pass, remove 
1 damage token from the APC. If you rolled a star, remove 2 
damage tokens instead.
NEW CHARACTERS & FIRETEAMS
BISHOP THE SYNTHETIC
Synthetics do not attract the attention of alien models. If an 
alien can move into a space next to a non-synthetic character 
to attack them, it will. If it cannot do that, but can move into 
a space next to a synthetic character and attack them, it will. 
If the alien cannot move into a space next to any character, it 
will move towards the nearest non-synthetic character. It will 
only move towards a synthetic character if they are the only 
character it can move towards.
Synthetics cannot have hazard cards placed on them. When 
they draw or reveal a hazard card that would be placed on 
them, recycle the card instead. If a Hive player can only place a 
hazard card on a synthetic character, discard the card instead.
ENRAGED RIPLEY
You may replace Ripley with Enraged Ripley at the start of 
any mission. You may not have both characters in the same 
fireteam.
FIRETEAMS
At the start of a mission, choose up to 6 characters to field in 
your fireteam (or 8 characters for the bigger bug hunt missions). 
Players then each choose which characters they want to play, 
flipping them from their GRUNT side to their HERO side.
Any remaining characters are not in the game and are held in 
reserve for later missions. You can change which characters are 
in reserve at the start of a new mission.
NEWT
Newt must be fielded in campaign missions, unless she has 
been captured or killed, or the mission states otherwise. Newt is 
fielded in addition to the 6 characters you select for the mission. 
Newt is not used in bug hunt missions.
If Newt is in a space next to Enraged Ripley, she may take an 
interact action to pick up Newt. When Newt is picked up, place 
her model on Enraged Ripley’s character card. Enraged Ripley 
may set Newt down at any time during her activation by placing 
Newt ’s model in a space next to herself. If Enraged Ripley is 
killed or knocked down, she must immediately set Newt down. 
In a turn in which she is carried, Newt may only perform rest 
actions during her activation. While she is being carried, Newt 
cannot be attacked by alien models.