Official Rulebook v.80 (22 September 2004)
Please check our website at www..allegianceccg.com for
web forums and an updated rule book. All references to
gender in this rule book are male but refer both to male
and female players. Allegiance: War of Factions is copyright
© Lucid Raven Productions 2004. All rights reserved.
The city is in turmoil following the recent Raging River’s
War. The infighting among the city’s major factions has
only increased since war’s end and the city itself faces
utter destruction as the dangers of the surrounding
wilderness grow. Without leadership the city will soon
fall. There must be one who can unite the city under
their leadership and restore order. You must be this one.
Welcome to Allegiance: War of Factions, a collectible card
game where each player takes the role of a lord or lady
vying for control of a mighty city. Extend your influence
in an attempt to control the city’s major political, reli-
gious, and economic powers. While fighting for control,
it may even be necessary to join forces with those who
you would call your enemies, as the city itself stands on
the brink of being overrun by the denizens of the wild.
Each player has three rows of cards.
• Private Holdings Row:
Structures and citizens in
play reside here.
• Defensive Holdings
Row: Troops and walls
in play reside here.
• Wanderer Row:
Wanderers in play reside
here.
Each player also has three
draw piles:
Structure Draw Pile:
Undrawn structures are
found here.
Personality Draw Pile:
Undrawn personalities,
items, events, and invoca-
tions are found here.
Wanderer Draw Pile:
Undrawn wanderers are found here.
Each draw pile has its own discard pile. Players also need
a spot for their personal influence tokens and a place for
dead/destroyed unique cards.
Influence tokens are used to bring cards into play, use
some abilities, and so on. You may take less influence
tokens than required by an ability. Influence tokens may
not be traded or given away to prevent their loss from
your personal influence pool. Counters are used to track
the effects of certain cards and abilities. The colors for
tokens and counters are:
Blue: religious influence token
Black: political influence token
Yellow: economic influence token
Red: wound counter
Clear: general counter
City’s Influence Pool
The city’s influence pool is the measure of resources the
city has to offer. If a card requires a player to draw from
the city’s influence pool and no tokens remain in it they
simply are not able to do so. All influence token costs are
paid to the city’s influence pool unless otherwise directed
in the card text. Since all players share this pool it is gener-
ally placed in the middle of the play area. Influence tokens
without an owner return to the city’s influence pool.
Personal Influence Pool
Each player has his own personal influence pool from
which he purchases new structures, pays for his personal-
ities’ abilities and so on. Keep wound and general counters
available here as well.
Wheeling and Dealing
Allegiance promotes wheeling and dealing. Need more
tokens? Trade for them, beg for them, make promises.
The only rule regarding this is that all communication is
public and only tokens may be traded. Need someone to
leave you alone? Pay them off. It’s all part of the game...
just remember, words and promises are not binding. Just
because a player has made an action doesn’t mean it has
to occur. You are free to wheel-and-deal to get them to
change their decision. Negotiations, however, must begin
immediately after the action is declared. As an optional
rule, if all players agree before the game begins, cards in
play (except for wanderers) may be traded between players
during the City Maintenance Phase after you check for
victory.
Deck Building Rules
Allegiance allows players to build their own customized
card decks from their own collection. The following are
the rules for building your own deck:
• After purchasing initial holdings each player must have
at least fifteen cards in each of their structure and per-
sonality draw piles.
• Each wanderer draw pile must consist of no less than
three wanderers multiplied by the number of players.
• No more than two of a single card can be used in a deck.
Draw Pile Recycling
If the last card of a draw pile has been drawn the discard
pile may be recycled for a cost of 5 influence tokens.
Reshuffle it and have another player cut it. Wanderer
piles recycle for free.
Exhaustion
Some abilities cause a card to exhaust which is shown by
turning the card about 45 degrees. Exhausted cards may
only use abilities which do not require them to exhaust.
Factions
Each personality in the city belongs to a specific faction
and each faction has a primary influence type. The three
factions are:
I Forgot!
Forgetting to use a card or ability or modify something is
part of the game. Once your turn to act passes you may
no longer go back and change the past. Breaking the
rules by forgetting is not allowed.
Moving Cards
During the City Maintenance phase items and personalities
may be moved freely between your private and defensive
holdings. Only troops may be placed in the defensive
holdings row. Outside of this phase pay 3 influence
tokens to move a personality.
Playing and Removing Cards
To play a card simply pay all of its costs. All cards are
brought into play un-exhausted and may only be played
to your own play area. A player may at any time release
any card of his in play, except for wanderers, by placing it
in the appropriate discard pile. A player may not release a
card during combat or to prevent it from being killed/
destroyed.
Timing
Once an action has begun it must be resolved before
another action begins. Actions include everything but
trading tokens, releasing cards from play, and wheeling
and dealing.
Unique Cards
There are several types of unique cards in Allegiance. All
uniques are marked with the unique symbol (#17) and
only one of each unique may be in play at a time. If a
unique card is played which is already in play, the previous
copy along with any attached cards is immediately placed
into its owner’s discard pile. Any tokens and counters on
a unique card are transferred with the ownership. In the
case of a unique wanderer a replacement must be drawn
for the discarded wanderer. If a unique card is killed or
destroyed it is placed in its owner’s dead pile and may no
longer be brought into play by any player so long as it
remains in the dead pile.
There are six types of cards: Structures, Personalities,
Wanderers, Items, Invocations, and Events. The following
chart shows the location of each part of the card.
Card Anatomy
1. Card Name: the name of the card.
2. Abilities: the card’s abilities.
3. Quotation: flavor text for the card.
4. Race and Gender, or Type: the card’s race and gen-
der, or type.
5. Profession: the profession of the card.
6. Offense: the offensive ability of the card.
7. Defense: the defensive ability of the card.
8. Faction: the faction the card belongs to.
9. Economic Cost: economic influence cost to bring the
10. Religious Cost: religious influence cost to bring the
11. Political Cost: political influence cost to bring the
12. Faction Influence: the card’s faction influence.
13. Vitality: the number of wounds the card can take
before dying.
14. Economic/Military Strength: the economic/
military strength or strength requirement of this card.
15. Religious Strength: the religious strength or
strength requirement of this card.
16. Political Strength: the political strength of this card.
17. Unique: if the sun/star symbol is present this card is
unique.
18. Aggression: the likelihood that this wanderer will
attack each round.
19. Residencies/Blocking: the number of citizens who
may live in the structure or the number of attacking
enemies the wall may block.
20. Generic Cost: the cost in influence tokens (any com-
bination) required to play this card.
21. Bounty: the bounty of any token combination the
victor collects from the city’s influence pool for killing a
wanderer.
Stone Border Cards
All stone border cards are structures. They fall into one
of three categories:
General Structures
IDENTIFY BY: Stone column
border.
Holdings, Action and
Private Holdings.
The residency icon shows how
many citizens may live in this
structure (#19).
Walls
IDENTIFY BY: #19 is a shield,
not a house.
Holdings, Action and
Defensive Holdings.
Walls are only used when your
holdings are attacked. Walls do
not have residencies, but rather
the shield icon shows the number of enemy attackers
which must be assigned to the wall during combat before
any other assignments are made. Only one wall may be in
play per player.
Strongholds
IDENTIFY BY: Only structure
with a vitality (#13).
Holdings.
Private Holdings.
The stronghold is the home of
the player—if it is destroyed the
player loses. A player must have
one and only one stronghold
which is part of their initial
holdings. Strongholds are the only structure with a vitality
(#13) and may not be healed.
Metallic Border Cards
Metallic border cards fall into four categories:
Personalities
Personalities are easily identified
by the faction shield (#8). There
are two types of personalities.
They are:
Citizens
IDENTIFY BY: Have an offense
and defense of 0 (#6, #7).
WHERE PLAYED: Must be
played on a structure of yours with
an open residence (#19).
If a citizen loses his residence he must immediately be
placed on an empty residence at no cost or into the dis-
card pile. If no open residence remains the citizen can
replace another citizen who will go to the discard pile
instead. A citizen may never gain offense or defense nor
participate in battle.
Troops
IDENTIFY BY: Have an offense and defense greater
than 0 (#6, #7).
WHEN PLAYABLE: Action and Development Phase.
WHERE PLAYED: Your Defensive Holdings or on a
structure of yours as a guard (see Guards).
May be used in combat to attack or defend.
Items
IDENTIFY BY: No gem icons
on top right side of card.
WHERE PLAYED: Items must
be attached beneath another card
of yours when brought into play.
Generally an item is attached to
personality unless otherwise
directed in their text. Items may
not be played on machines
unless otherwise directed by the
card.
During combat, a troop may only use one weapon, one
armor, and one shield. The effects of an item last for the
phase in which it is used unless otherwise noted on the
card. Items may be transferred among your own holdings
during the City Maintenance Phase. If the card the item
is attached to leaves play the item is discarded.
Invocations
IDENTIFY BY: Blue strength
requirement gem (#15) is only
gem icon on top right side.
WHERE PLAYED: Invocations
must be attached beneath a per-
sonality of yours with a religious
strength equal to or greater than
the invocation’s religious strength
requirement.
Invocations are permanent additions to a personality and
may not be moved. Invocations fall into two categories:
general, and Kalim. General invocations may be used by
any personality which meets the religious strength
requirement. Kalim invocations may only be used by
Glory of Kalim faction members. To use an invocation
already attached to a personality, pay the costs listed in
the text. Exhausted personalities may not use invocations.
Events
IDENTIFY BY: Yellow economic/
military strength requirement
gem (#14) is only gem icon on
top right side.
WHEN PLAYABLE: Depends
on Type. General—any phase
except City Maintenance; bat-
tle—during combat; interrupt—
in response to another player’s
event.
WHERE PLAYED: Events
generally are discarded after use.
There are three types of events: general, battle, and interrupt.
Battle events require a troop with sufficient economic/
military strength to be on the battlefield in order to be
used (#14).
Wood Border Cards
Wood border cards are always wanderers.
Wanderers
IDENTIFY BY: Wood border.
WHEN PLAYABLE: Wanderer
Phase.
Wanderer Row.
COST TO PLAY: None.
Wanderers are beings who are
not fully controlled by any player
including monsters, bandits, and
other creatures. If a wanderer
has any abilities the player currently controlling it may use
them. When a player kills a wanderer he receives a
bounty (#24) from the city’s influence pool. The bounty
can be made of any token type. Wanderers cannot be
given any items or invocations, but any player may bol-
ster them during battle by using abilities, events, and/or
invocations.
Each player begins with 4 each of economic, religious,
and political tokens in their personal influence pool
which can be used to purchase their initial holdings.
Initial Holdings
Before beginning play each player must purchase initial
holdings (using their 12 starting influence tokens) from
their structure draw deck including: a stronghold, two or
less zero cost structures, as may other non-unique structures
desired. After selecting initial holdings re-shuffle your
remaining structures to use as your structure draw pile.
All players simultaneously reveal their initial holdings, pay
the costs from their starting influence, and cut the decks
of the player to the left. Keep your remaining influence
tokens in your personal influence pool.
To gain victory one of the following criteria must be met:
• You have enough faction influence (25 points) to claim
dominance. Add the faction influence of all your per-
sonalities together. In addition, if you have five or more
members from the same faction in your play area you
may also add the tokens from your personal pool which
match their primary influence type (see Factions) to
your total. Players may ask you at any time what your
influence victory total is. For a shorter game or if this
is your first game of Allegiance you may want to play to
a total of 15 or 20.
• All other players’ strongholds are destroyed.
A player loses the game when another player has the
required amount of influence at the beginning of a new
round or when his stronghold is destroyed. All players
lose immediately if the number of wanderers in play is
greater than three times the player count. A player may
surrender at any time. All cards of a player whose strong-
hold has been destroyed go to the discard piles and are
removed from play while their influence tokens and
counters remain in play.
The player with the most influence tokens in his personal
pool at the beginning of each round is called the lead
player. If a tie exists resolve it by rolling a die—highest
die roll is the lead player. The five phases in each round are:
1. City Maintenance Phase
2. Action and Development Phase
3. Military Phase
4. Wanderer Phase
5. Discard Phase
City Maintenance Phase
Check to see if you have achieved victory before
peforming the steps below. If no player has won then all
players simultaneously perform the remaining steps of
this phase.
• Un-exhaust all cards.
• Move any personalities (both citizens and troops) in
your holdings freely.
• Transfer items among your holdings.
• If using the optional trading cards rule, trade cards
already in play with another player.
• Draw one card at a time from your structure and or
personality draw pile, viewing the new card in between
draws, until you hold seven cards in your hand.
Action and Development Phase
Starting with the lead player and rotating left each player
performs one of the following actions:
• Use one ability of a card in your play area.
• Bring one card into play from your hand paying any
required costs.
• Pass: make no action.
A player may, if appropriate, use an ability marked as a
reaction to interrupt another player’s action—this does
not count as their action. Following this the cycle contin-
ues where it left off as normal. This cycle continues until
all players pass in sequence, ending the phase.
Military Phase
Starting with the lead player and rotating left each player
has three options during the Military Phase:
• Declare an attack against another player’s holdings.
• Declare a hunt against a single wanderer row (including
his own). The hunting player selects which wanderers from
a single wanderer row he wishes to engage in combat.
• Pass: make no combat engagement.
If a player elects to make an attack use the rules under
the Combat section. After each player has performed one
of these three options, this phase ends.
Wanderer Phase
The lead player begins by performing ALL three
steps of the wanderer phase. After he is finished the
player to his left performs them and so on until every
player has had a wanderer phase.
Introduction
Game Layout
Tokens and Counters
Important Concepts
• The Glory of Kalim (religious influence)
• House Mosfin (political influence)
• The Veteran’s Guild (economic influence)
Card Types
Setup
Victory
Losing the Game
Order of Play

1. Roll for each un-exhausted wanderer in your Wanderer
Row. On a roll equal to or less than the wanderer’s
aggression rating it has become aggressive and is
moved to the battlefield. If one or more of your wan-
derers are aggressive all players roll a die. The player
rolling the highest score is attacked by the wanderer(s)
as if the wanderer(s) had just declared an attack.
Wanderers CAN attack their owner.
If your wanderers attack another player then you control
all wanderers during the combat. If they attack you then
the player to your left controls all wanderers. Resolve the
wanderer combat using the rules under the Combat section.
2. Following step 1, for each unexhausted wanderer in
your Wanderer Row pay a fine of one influence token
to the city’s influence pool or place one card from your
play area—excluding wanderers—in the discard pile.
3. Draw a new wanderer card from your wanderer pile and
place it face up and unexhausted on your wanderers row.
Discard Phase
All players simultaneously perform these steps:
• Check for any counters affecting your cards in play.
Resolve the effects of these counters.
• Up to 3 cards may be discarded from your hand.
• Whether or not a player discards he must then state
that he is done. Start the next round.
A combat not involving wanderers may be ended at any
time if both players agree to cease combat. Once a com-
bat has been declared players may no longer use any abil-
ities until the combat modification step.
Important Combat Concepts
Assignments
During combat cards are given assignments (see diagram
A). Once assigned a card cannot change its assignment.
If a card is assigned to an unassigned card these cards
are considered to be assigned to each other. Both cards
will attack and defend against one another. If a card is
attacked by more than one grouping it will defend itself
against all attacks but will still only attack its first assign-
ment. There are two types of assignments: separate and joint.
Separate Attacks
Separate attacks allow for more than one wound to be
scored against a target. To make a separate attack simply
place an unassigned attacker facing its target. See diagram
B for a normal separate attack and see diagram C for a
separate attack being made against a joint attacker.
Separate attacks can be strengthened by a joint attacker.
Any number of separate attacks may occur against a target.
Joint Attacks
Adding another troop or wanderer to a separate attack
creates a joint attack. Doing this increases the chance of
scoring a wound. Joint attackers are placed behind the
lead troop/ wanderer/structure and their offenses are
added together against the target (see diagram C). Each
troop still defends individually and must be individually
targeted. If a troop capable of attacking or defending
multiple targets is aided by another troop, the aiding troop
can only assist in the combat to which it was assigned.
The group as a whole makes one combat die roll—a
bonus to offense is added to the group’s total offense
while a bonus to defense is added to each card individu-
ally. A joint attack may include any number of attackers.
Death and Destruction
If a personality, wanderer, or stronghold’s wounds are
equal to or greater than its vitality then it is killed/
destroyed. If a structure (other than a stronghold) is
wounded it is destroyed. If the card is unique it is placed
on the dead pile; otherwise the card is discarded to the
appropriate pile.
Exhaustion at the Battle
Each troop exhausted before combat is declared may only
be sent to the battlefield after paying three influence
tokens. After a combat has been declared if a troop or
structure becomes exhausted it may still move as normal
to the battlefield and be assigned to a combat. If an
exhausted troop, structure, or wanderer is involved in a
battle its offense is 0 and may not be increased.
Guards
Troops residing on a structure are considered guards and
add their offense and defense to the structure in battle,
even if the structure is exhausted. Guards do not use up
a residency. If their structure is destroyed in combat they
take a wound and return to the defensive holdings. If it
is otherwise removed from play they simply return to the
defensive holdings. Guards may not assign during combat
but may be targeted.
Valor Influence Gains
If a troop of yours kills another lord’s troop, take influ-
ence tokens from that lord equal to the defeated troop’s
faction influence.
Order of Attack
1. Declaration
2. Movement
3. Assignments
4. Modification
5. Combat Resolution
6. End battle
Declaration
Declare an attack against a target player or wanderer row.
Movement
There are two types of movement:
Player vs. Player and Wanderer Attack Movement
• Attacker moves all desired troops of his (or the attacking
wanderers) to the battlefield.
• Defender moves his wall (if in play) and all desired
troops of his to the battlefield.
• Move any support troops joining other troops to the
battlefield.
Player vs. Wanderer (“The Hunt”) Movement:
• Attacker moves all desired troops of his to the battlefield.
• Defender moves his hunted wanderers to the battlefield.
• Move any support troops joining other troops to the
battlefield.
Assignments
Perform these steps in order:
1. If a wall is present the attacking lord or wanderer
group must assign troops/wanderers to the wall until
the wall’s block capacity is filled or he has no further
troops/wanderers on the battlefield to assign.
2. Starting with the attacking player each side takes turns
making one assignment. For your turn select one of
your unassigned troops/wanderers and make one of
the following assignments:
If you are the attacker:
• Make separate attack.
• Make joint attack.
• Target structure (in a separate or joint attack) if no
defending troops remain unassigned.
If you are the defender:
• Make separate attack.
• Make joint attack.
When no further troops/wanderers are without
assignment this step is finished.
Modification
Starting with the attacking player and rotating left each
player can use one ability or event which immediately
modifies the combat until no player wishes to further
modify the combat. An immediate modification is some-
thing which affects a troop, wanderer, or structure’s ability
to attack, defend, or participate in combat. Reaction abili-
ties may also be used.
Combat Resolution
To resolve a combat players make one die roll for each
separate and joint attack. The die roll has these benefits:
Die Roll
Effect
+1 offense
+2 offense
no change
no change
+1 defense
+2 defense
This die roll affects the troop, wanderer, or structure for
all the engagements it participates in during this combat.
If the offense of the separate or joint attack is greater
than the defense of the target then the target takes a
wound. Place a wound counter on the target and exhaust it.
There are three phases to the combat resolution. Resolve
the combat phases in this order:
1. Ranged attacks.
2. Fleetfoot attacks.
3. All other attacks.
A wounded troop/wanderer/structure will still strike
back if it was wounded during its own attack phase.
End Combat
Place any dead/destroyed cards in their appropriate pile.
All remaining troops (except guards) return to the defen-
sive holdings; wanderers return to the wanderer row. Be
sure to return troops, wanderers, and strongholds which
took a wound as exhausted. The combat is now over.
Many cards have abilities which may be used during any
phase. Abilities are limited by the following ability rules:
Ability Cycle
Players may use abilities during any phase. Any time an
ability is used outside of the Action and Development
phase a cycle begins. If two or more players wish to use
an ability at the same time, all players will vote to deter-
mine which ability happens first. In the case of a tie, high
die roll wins. After a player uses an ability the player to
his left has the next “right” to use an ability and so on
until no player wishes to use another ability.
Exhausting Abilities
Many abilities require their card to exhaust. These are
marked by the letter “E” preceding the ability. Abilities
which do not have an “E” before them can be used even
if the card is exhausted. Exhausting abilities may require
other cards to exhaust as well.
Faction Abilities
Some personalities have abilities which are only available
when their faction has enough members in play among
all players’ cards. These abilities are marked by an “F” in
parenthesis followed by the number of faction members
which need to be in play to use this ability.
All common abilities fall into one of four categories.
They are: political (P), religious (R), military (M) and 
general (G).
Common Abilities Defined
Armor—M
The fierce ability does not affect this troop or wanderer.
Berserk—G
Characters which have the berserk ability are able to initiate
a second round of combat with a different target. If
bearer’s first combat was on the battlefield the new target
must also be on the battlefield. If the first combat was
against a target in the private holdings the new target
must also be from the private holdings. Treat this new
round as a completely new combat in which only troops
with berserk can make assignments.
Bribery—G
Bearer returns home immediately from the combat. Bribes
should be paid before assignments are made. Bribes
remain on bearer and are collected in addition to any
normal bounty when the card is killed. The influence
cost to bribe a wanderer is its bounty, while a troop’s cost
is his faction influence (or one token, if he has no fac-
tion influence).
Campaign—P
Collect political influence from the city’s influence pool
up to bearer’s political strength.
Charge—M
Reduce the defense of bearer by 1 to increase the offense
by 1. This may be done once for each point of ecnomic/
military strength bearer has.
Climb—G
If a troop with climb is assigned to a wall he may elect,
after all wall assignments have been made, to climb past
the wall and make a new assignment with another troop
or structure.
Crusade—R
Exhaust target troop.
Debate—P (Reaction)
Negate a political ability just played. Bearer must have a
political strength equal to or greater than the personality
who used the political ability. Debate may be debated. A
single personality may only be involved in a particular
debate once.
Defender—G
Bearer may fight two enemies. Bearer may choose two
unassigned troops or wanderers if not yet assigned or
one additional troop/wanderer if already assigned to a
single assignment. A defender can wound both of his
assignments.
Discredit—P
Exhaust target citizen.
Endurance—G
Troop or wanderer does not become exhausted for taking
a wound.
Extort—G
Collect economic influence from another player’s personal
pool up to bearer’s economic/military strength.
Fear—G
If bearer is present at the combat select one target which
will attack at -3 offense. Fear does not stack.
Fervor—R
Bearer gains +1 offense for each religious influence
token spent up to his religious strength until the end of
the combat. Cannot be used on others.
Fierce—G
Bearer does two wounds if target troop or wanderer does
not have armor. Fierce cannot be used in a joint attack
unless all joint attacking troops/wanderers have fierce.
Fleetfoot—G
Bearer may attack during the fleetfoot step of combat
resolution. Fleetfoot cannot be used in a joint attack
unless all joint attackers have fleetfoot.
Flight—G
Bearer may elect to land and lose the benefits of flight.
Flyers cannot be assigned by a card without the ranged
or flight ability. If no defenders with ranged or flight
remain unassigned flyers may assign to structures.
Ranged flyers may only be hit by those with ranged or
flight unless they elect to make a non-ranged attack. If
assigned to a wall and not targeted by a ranged troop or
flyer, bearer may elect, after all assignments are made, to
make a new assignment.
Follower—G
If unexhausted, bearer will join other aggressive wanderers
in combat.
Giant Size—G
Bearer gains +3 offense against any non-giant sized troop
or wanderer.
Hoarding—G
At the beginning of the Wanderer Phase place one token
from the city’s influence pool or from another lord’s per-
sonal pool on this wanderer as an additional bounty.
Influence—P
Exhaust target structure.
Oppress—R
Collect economic influence from the city’s influence pool
up to bearer’s religious strength.
Persuade—P (Reaction)
When a card is brought into play immediately pay the
same number of tokens as were just paid to stop that
card from being played (influence type does not matter).
The card is discarded and all costs are still paid. Persuade
can be used on a card with no costs. Persuade cannot be
used on invocations. Cannot be used on a unique person-
ality who just switched allegiances to another lord.
Pray—R
Target gains +1 offense or defense for each religious
influence token spent up to bearer’s religious strength.
Cannot be used on self. Each target may only be the
recipient of one prayer per battle. Effect lasts until the
end of the combat.
Protection—R (Reaction)
Negate the effects of an invocation cast on the bearer by
paying the same influence costs as the invoker.
Ranged—M
Bearer may attack during the ranged step of combat res-
olution. Ranged cannot be used in a joint attack unless all
joint attackers have ranged.
Raze—M
Bearer gains +3 offense against structures.
Retain—G (Reaction)
Stop a unique card, which is alreayd in play, from being
played. All costs are still paid, but the new copy is dis-
carded instead. A personality cannot retain itself.
Sap—P
Move influence tokens up to bearer’s political strength
from another player’s personal pool to the city’s influence
pool. Lord using sap chooses the tokens lost.
Support—G
If requested, this troop may join another lord in combat,
but may not support wanderers. Support troops must be
sent during the movement phase. Once support troops
are sent to the battlefield the hiring player has complete
control over them.
Tithe—R
Move religious influence up to bearer’s religious strength
from another player’s personal pool to the city’s influence
pool.
Worship—R
Collect religious influence from the city’s influence pool
up to bearer’s religious strength.
Game Design: Andrew Grierson
Lead Developer: Andrew Grierson
Additional Development: James Grierson, Lance W. Card,
and J.T. Kauffman
Art Direction & Design: Lance W. Card
Sales & Marketing: James Grierson
Copy Editing: Christopher Kugler
Artists:
Lance W. Card
Christiaan Iken
José Maria Rodriguez Millan
Tsune D. Orozco T.
Jenny Crampton
J. Andrew Jameyson
Sarah Skinner
John Girouard
Amy Edwards
Heather Rose Meloche
Renee LeCompte
Annah Hutchings
Amy Mortensen
Jennifer Miller
Ashley Martin
Sarah Cloutier
Rebecca Cox
Banu Andaru Adhimuka
Rhodri McCormack
Richard Yang
Jasminn Chan
Brenna Walters
Olga Bosserdt
Patricia Anne McCarty
Jennie Seay
Elisha Giquel
J.T. Kauffman
Roman Rozhavsky
Special thanks to all of the playtesters, to all of the artists
who donated their time and talents, and to our wives and
families (for putting up with the time commitment).
Allegiance: War of Factions © Lucid Raven Productions,
LLC, 2004.
Allegiance: War of Factions collectible card game, logo, card
illustrations, images are © 2004 Lucid Raven Productions,
LLC. All rights reserved. No parts of this product may
be reproduced without specific permission from the
publisher.
Combat
Abilities
Credits
Legal