GAME COMPONENTS
• 1 dice tower
• 49 cubes – 7 each in 
blue, black, red, brown 
green, yellow and white
• 1 storage board
• 16 island tiles
• 8 frames
– to border the island area
• 37 neutral landscape tiles
• 1 player sheet
• 16 village tiles
• 12 trading posts
• 2 ships
• 3 scoring discs
– for the player sheet
• 1 victory point disc
– for the victory point track
• 1 player order disc 
– for the special action track
• 2 victory point tiles
– 50/100 & 150/200
• 24 progress tokens
• 40 commodity tokens
– 8 of each type
• 50 production tokens
– 3x 2, 4x 3,
3x 4 of each type
• 6 pirate markers
• 5 treasure chests 
– for big islands
• 4 time markers
• 1 planning token
• 1 rulebook
Each player’s components:
Common components:
Construct the dice tower – which 
consists of a funnel, a cardboard tower, 
and a tray – before each game.
Front
Front
Back
Back
Follow the lead of the famous navigator and discoverer Amerigo Vespucci.
New lands are waiting to be discovered and to provide a new homeland – rich with 
valuable resources – ffor its settlers. Good planning and clever tactical decisions are 
needed as the dice tower affects the fate of all players, and only 
those who monitor the cubes in the dice tower, closely watch 
their competitors, and keep the dangerous pirates in mind stand 
a chance of becoming a famous discoverer and winning the game.

 
1. SETTING UP THE ISLANDS
Lay out the 16 island tiles to form an island area. 
Arrange the tiles as in the illustration above and while 
following these rules:
1. Make sure that no water zones are completely sur-
rounded by land.
2. If land spaces on adjacent tiles connect, they must 
connect orthogonally, not just diagonally.
Next, place the frame around the 16 island tiles.
Place the time markers in ascending order on the print-
ed time marker space on one of the frame tiles.
Islands with 20 or more land spaces are referred to as 
“big islands”. All other islands are small islands. Place 
one treasure chest on each big island. 
Place the commodity tokens on the appropriate spaces 
of the islands.
Place the neutral landscape tiles face down next to the 
island area; place the planning token here as well.
Island set-up for 2 players:
Island set-up for 3 players:
Island set-up for 4 players:
The island area consists of 
16 island tiles, 4 corners and 4 short frames.
The island area consists of 12 island tiles 
(chosen at random), 4 corners and 2 short 
frames.
The island area consists of 9 island 
tiles (chosen at random) and 4 
corner frames.
SET-UP EXAMPLE FOR 4 PLAYERS:
SET-UP
LAND SPACES
WATER SPACES
20 LAND SPACES 
= BIG ISLAND
COMMODITY SPACE
TRADING POST SPACE
ANCHOR SPACE
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 2

2. ARRANGING THE PLAYER COMPONENTS
Each player receives a player sheet and keeps it in front 
of him.
Each player chooses a player color and takes the 12 
trading posts, 2 ships, 16 village tiles, 3 scoring discs, 
1 victory point disc, 1 player order disc, and 2 victory 
point tiles of his color.
Each player places 1 scoring disc on the first space of 
his progress, cannon and gold tracks.
For now, the players keep their trading posts, ships, 
victory point disc and player order disc next to their 
player sheet.
The players place their 16 village tiles face down next to 
the neutral landscape tiles.
3. SETTING UP THE STORAGE BOARD
Place the storage board next to the game board (i.e., the 
island area).
Mix the pirate markers well and place 5 of them face 
down on the pirate spaces. Return the remaining pirate 
marker unseen to the game box. Reveal one of the 
pirate mark ers at random.
Mix the progress tokens face down next to the storage 
board, then place one progress token face up on each 
space of the progress area.
Mix the production tokens face down next to the stor-
age board, then place one production token face up on 
each of the production spaces.
Each player places his victory point disc on space 0/50 
of the victory point track.
Stack all of the player order discs at random on the first 
space of the special action track.
The player whose disc is on top is the first player. All 
other players receive one gold for each other player 
preceding them in player order. To track this gold, 
players move the disc on the gold track of their player 
sheet to the right the appropriate number of spaces.
Modifications for 2 and 3 players
With 2 players, return the production tokens for 3 and 4 
players to the game box; with 3 players, return only those 
for 4 players to the game box. Only fill the production 
spaces up to the number of players.
gold track
cannon track
progress track
storage for 
collected progess 
tokens
storage for collected commodity and production tokens
Example: The starting player is red. White, in second, receives 1 
gold, while blue receives 2 gold and yellow 3 gold.
2 player: 30 production tokens
3 player: 40 production tokens
Note: If a player passes the 0/50 space on the victory point track, 
he places (or flips) the appropriate victory point tile next to the 
0/50 space to record his points.
PIRATE SPACES
STORAGE 
SPACES
ACTION 
SPACE
SPECIAL ACTION TRACK
ACTION CIRCUIT
VICTORY POINT TRACK
PRODUCTION 
SPACES
PROGRESS AREA
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 3

 
4. PREPARING THE DICE TOWER
Place the dice tower next to the storage board.
Drop all 49 cubes into the tower, then place any cubes 
that land in the tray on the appropriately colored 
 storage space of the action circuit. 
Now, set-up is complete and players can start the game.
For the first phase of a game round, the starting player 
drops all blue cubes on the storage space into the dice 
tower.
Place all the cubes that land in the tray in the action 
space of the action circuit. These cubes indicate which 
actions can be chosen during this game phase and how 
often they can be used:
The colors of the cubes emerging from the tower 
determine which actions are available this phase.
The largest number of cubes of a single color deter-
mines the number of action points (AP) that can be 
spent on a single available action during this game 
Beginning with the player whose disc is farthest along 
the special action track, each player in the given player 
order chooses one of the available actions and performs 
it. Multiple players can choose the same action.
If more than one disc is stacked on a space – as at the 
beginning of the game – these players take turns in 
order from top to bottom of the stack.
The game is played over 5 game rounds; each game round consists of 7 phases. During each phase, each player 
takes exactly one action in the given player order.
There are 7 actions, each associated with a different color:
Example: Still remaining in the tower are 2x red and yellow; 
3x blue, black and green; and 4x brown and white.
Example: The player takes the 4 blue cubes and tosses them into the 
tower.
Move ships
Progress
Build
Buy production tokens
Special action
Load cannons
Plan
Place the 4 blue, 1 black, 1 red and 2 green cubes in the tray on the 
action space. With 4 being the largest number of cubes of a single 
color, the players can spend 4 AP on either the blue, black, red or 
green action this phase.
Example: The red player decides which action he wants to take this 
phase, followed by white, blue and yellow.
Example: The red player decides which action he wants to take this 
phase, followed by white, blue and yellow.
PLAYING THE GAME
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 4

 
 
If a player cannot or does not want to use all of the ac-
tion points available, he may forfeit any or all of them.
After all players have performed their actions, move all 
cubes from the action space to their respective storage 
spaces to end the current phase.
To start the next phase, drop all the cubes in the next 
storage space in clockwise order into the dice tower. 
(For the second phase, the black cubes; for the third 
phase, the red cubes; etc.) After the phase in which 
the white cubes are dropped into the tower, the game 
round ends, intermediate scoring takes place, then play-
ers prepare for the next round.
Here are the actions explained in detail:
The first time a player chooses this action, he places his 
two ships on any spaces of his choice on the frame.
Each action point allows the player to move each of his 
ships to an orthogonally adjacent water space.
An unlimited number of ships can stand on a frame 
space, but each water space on an island tile can hold 
only one ship. A ship on a water space does not block 
the passage of other ships.
If a ship ends its movement on an anchor space, the 
player can establish one of his trading posts on the adja-
cent trading post space, provided that it’s not occupied. 
This player can now build on this island.
The first player to establish a trading post on an island 
scores 3 victory points for his discovery.
Note that each corner frame consists of three water spaces, while 
each small frame consists of one water space.
The player moves the cannon scoring disc on his player 
sheet one space to the right for each action point, up to 
a maximum of 12.
Note: If a storage space is empty or no cubes fall out of the tower, 
skip this phase, with players taking no actions.
If cubes fall out of the tower at an inappropriate time (e.g., some-
one bumps the table), leave the cubes in the tray until the start 
of the next phase. Drop these cubes into the tower along with the 
cubes on the appropriate storage space for this phase.
Note: A player may establish more than one trading post on 
each island.
Example: With 4 AP available, the red player places his first ship 
on a frame tile for free and can sail 4 spaces. He decides to move 
only 3 spaces to land on an anchor space and establish a trading 
post. He forfeits the remaining 1 AP for this ship. He also uses 4 
AP to place and move his second ship elsewhere on the island area.
4.
5.
Example: With 5 AP available, the red player moves his ship to 
another anchor point on this same island. He then places a second 
trading post on this island, but he scores no victory points as this 
island has already been discovered.
Example: With 4 AP available, the red player moves his cannon disc 
4 spaces to the right on the cannon track.
 THE BLUE ACTION: MOVE SHIPS
 THE BLACK ACTION: LOAD CANNONS
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 5

 
 
 
With this action, the player can take neutral landscape 
tiles or his own village tiles from the general supply and 
place them next to his player sheet.
Taking one of his own village tiles, regardless of its size, 
costs 1 AP.
Taking a neutral landscape tile costs 1-6 AP, depending 
on its size. A player can take only one neutral landscape 
tile during each game phase.
The player moves the progress scoring disc on his 
player sheet one space clockwise for each action point 
used. Each time he reaches or passes a space with 
imprinted victory points, he must take a progress token 
from the storage board and place it on his player sheet.
At the end of the game, the player scores victory points 
equal to the highest number reached or passed. The 
effects of the progress tokens are explained in detail on 
pages 11 & 12.
With this action, the player can build the neutral land-
scape or village tiles from the personal supply next to 
his player sheet face down on any island that contains 
at least one of his own trading posts.
Placing a village tile costs only 1 AP.
Placing a neutral landscape tile costs 1-6 AP, depending 
on its size.
When building, the player must follow these rules:
1. Tiles must be built only on land – never on water.
2. Each tile must be placed orthogonally adjacent to…
a) either the player’s own trading post…
 THE RED ACTION: PLAN
 THE BROWN ACTION: PROGRESS
 THE GREEN ACTION: BUILD
Example: With 4 AP available, the red player takes one 2-square 
neutral landscape tile as well as a 4-square and a 3-square village 
tile from the general supply.
Example: With 5 AP available, the blue player moves his progress 
disc past the victory point space. Then he collects one progress token 
from the storage board and places it on his player sheet.
Example: In order to build the three expansion tiles shown here, the 
red player must spend 4 AP.
Example: Part of the village tile is placed on a water space, which 
means that the tile cannot be placed here.
Example: In this case, the village tile has no orthogonal connection 
to the player’s trading post, so the tile can’t be placed here.
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 6

b) …or a string of the player’s village and/or neu-
tral landscape tiles that connect to his trading post. 
(It doesn’t matter which player built the neutral 
landscape tiles.)
3. If a player builds over a commodity space, he takes 
that commodity token and places it on the corre-
sponding space on his player sheet. Stack com-
modity tokens of the same type.
4. Players cannot build over a trading post, but they 
can build over an empty trading post space. In this 
case, a trading post can no longer be established on 
this space.
5. During each game phase, a player can build multi-
ple tiles on one or more islands.
Players place newly built tiles face down, then they flip 
them face up and score them as follows:
Each village and landscape tile has two victory point 
val ues on it. When expanding on a small island, the 
player scores the smaller number of victory points; on 
a big island (marked by a treasure chest) the player 
scores the larger number of victory points.
Completing an island:
When a player covers the last empty space of an island, 
he scores 3 victory points for completing the island in 
addition to the value of his tiles; if the island is a big 
island, he also takes the treasure chest, placing it next to 
his player sheet.
All players who own at least one trading post on this 
island now gain victory points as follows:
Each player locates the row that corresponds to the 
number of his trading posts on this island, then mul-
tiplies this number times the number on the topmost 
time marker. He scores victory points equal to this 
product.
An island can also be compleated, if the last free space 
is a trading post space and a player establishes a trading 
post on it.
Record all victory points scored during this action on 
the victory point track immediately.
Note: Move the treasure chest as needed when building tiles on 
an island.
Example: The red player 
places the tiles so that all 
of them are connected to 
a red trading post, either 
directly or through a 
chain of tiles.
Example: The red player placed his tiles on two com modity tokens: 
sugar and cotton. He takes these commodities and places them on 
his player sheet.
Example: The red player has built his tiles on a big island, so he 
earns 10 victory points (VP).
2nd game round = 
time marker 4
Example: In the second game round, the red player builds a 
2-square village tile and completes this island. He scores 2 VP for 
the built tile, 3 VP for completing the island, and 12 VP (3x4) for 
having 2 trading posts on the island. In sum, he scores 17 VP in 
addition to claiming the treasure chest. The blue player scores 4 VP 
(1x4) for his 1 trading post on this island.
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 7

 
 
 
With this action, the player can buy production tokens 
for 2-4 AP from the storage board. The AP cost of a 
production token equals the number on this token. 
The player stacks purchased production tokens on his 
player sheet with commodity tokens of the same type.
Note: Each player starts with a production token of each type of 
good printed on his player sheet.
For this action, the player has two choices:
1. Change the player order:
The player advances his disc one space on the 
special action track for each action point spent. If 
he lands on a space occupied by one or more discs, 
he places his disc on top of any disc(s) already on 
this space.
2. Take a special action:
A player who has advanced at least once on the 
special action track will have his disc on a non-
white space. The color of this space matches one of 
the actions described previously. If no cube of this 
color is in the action space, the player can still take 
this color’s corresponding action. (In other words, 
for this action treat white cubes as jokers that match 
the color under a player’s special action disc.)
At the end of the game, the player scores victory points 
equal to the highest number on the special action track 
reached or passed.
Instead of performing an action, the player may take 
gold.
To do this, the player totals the number of cubes in the 
action space, divides this number by three, rounds up, 
then advances his disc on the gold track of his player 
sheet by this amount.
If his total gold would exceed 12, he immediately scores 
1 victory point for each excess gold.
Note: At the end of the game, combinations of matching com-
modity and production tokens generate victory points.
 THE YELLOW ACTION: BUY PRODUCTION TOKENS
 THE WHITE ACTION: SPECIAL ACTION
Example: With 5 AP available, the red player buys two cotton pro-
duction tokens for 5 AP from the storage board. He places them on 
his player sheet on top of his cotton commodity tokens.
AP cost
Example: With 5 AP available, the yellow player advances his disc 4 
spaces to land on the blue disc on the red space. He is the new start 
player next phase. He forfeits the remaining 1 AP.
Example: With 5 AP available, the white player chooses the white 
action, treats the white cubes as red (since the white disc is on a red 
space), and can now spend 5 AP to Plan.
Example: Since 10 cubes lie in the action space, the blue player 
collects 4 gold. He already had 9 gold, so he places his gold disc on 
space 12 and immediately scores 1 VP for the one remaining gold.
+ 1 VP
GOLD
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 8

 
Players can also receive gold as follows:
If a player’s disc reaches or has reached the end of 
the cannon, progress or special action track without 
the player being able to use all available action 
points that phase, he receives 2 gold, no matter how 
many action points he forfeits.
After completing a big island, the player receives a 
treasure chest. He can remove this treasure chest 
from the game at any time and take 3 gold.
Some progress tokens give players gold once or on 
a recurring basis.
Players can use gold as follows:
The cubes in the action space determine how many 
actions points are available for each action during a 
phase. For each 1 gold a player spends during a phase, 
he gains 1 additional action point.
Each gold a player owns at the end of the game is 
worth 1 victory point.
After the phase in which the white cubes are dropped 
into the dice tower (i.e., the seventh phase), the game 
round ends and an intermediate scoring takes place.
Each player must fire cannons equal to the strength of 
the pirates – that is, the sum of all face-up pirate mar-
kers. To do this, a player moves his disc on the cannon 
track that many spaces to the left. If a player goes down 
to zero cannons and still has not matched the pirates’ 
strength, he suffers damage equal to the full strength of 
the pirates and moves his scoring disc backwards on 
the victory point track that many spaces!
If a player still has cannons remaining after firing the 
required amount, he keeps these for the next game 
round.
Note: If a player has already reached the end of one of these 
tracks during an earlier phase and he takes this action again, he 
still receives 2 gold.
Note: If a player’s victory point total would be negative, he leaves 
his victory point disc on the 0/50 space.
Example: With 5 AP available, the red player chooses the black 
action. He already has 10 cannons, so he can add only 2 more. The 
remaining cannons are converted to 2 gold.
Example: With 2 AP available, the red player chooses the brown 
action, then spends 1 gold for 1 additional AP. Now he can advance 
3 spaces on the progress track and claim another progress token 
from the storage board.
Example: Six pirates are attacking the players. The blue player has 
only four cannons, so he must move his cannon disc to 0 and lose 
6 VP.
Example: In this same situation, the yellow player has 8 cannons, 
so he reduces his cannon disc to 2 and successfully fights off the 
pirates.
END OF A GAME ROUND & INTERMEDIATE SCORING
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 9

 
Preparing the next game round:
1. Reveal one more pirate marker.
2. Replenish progress tokens:
First, return all progress tokens in the right half of 
the progress area of the storage board to the game 
box. Slide any progress tokens in the left half of the 
progress area to the spaces in the right half. Place 4 
new progress tokens on the left half of the progress 
area.
3. Replenish production tokens:
Return all production tokens on the storage board 
to the game box, then refill the appropriate number 
of spaces with new production tokens.
4. Adjust the time marker. Remove the topmost time 
marker from the stack and place it in the game box. 
Example: At the end of the 
next round, 10 pirates will 
attack the players.
=
Note: In many cases, fewer than 8 progress tokens will be on 
display after the first game round.
The game ends after the 5th game round. Players con-
duct an intermediate scoring as usual, then final scoring 
takes place. Record all victory points on the victory 
point track immediately. Score the following:
1. Gold: 
First, convert treasure chests and one-time (1x) 
progress tokens that grant gold into gold on their 
owners’ gold tracks.
Note: Each gold that exceeds the gold track limit of 12 is 
immediately converted into 1 VP.
A player now scores 1 VP for each gold on his gold 
track.
2. Goods:
For each type of good, each player multiplies the 
number of commodity tokens that he owns of this 
type by the number of production tokens that he 
owns of this type. This product equals the number 
of victory points a player scores for this type of 
good.
Note: The printed number on the production tokens has no 
meaning during scoring. Each production token counts as 
one. (Remember that each player starts with one production 
token of each type of good printed on his player sheet.)
END OF THE GAME
Example: Final scoring for the red player: 
 
 
 
Gold:
First, he converts his treasure chest (3 gold) and his progress token 
(5 gold) into 8 gold, which takes his gold track from 10 to 12; the 
remaining 6 gold is immediately converted into 6 VP. Then he scores 
an additional 12 VP for his gold track.
Goods:
The player scores...
...Cotton: 12 VP (3 commodity tokens x 4 production tokens)
...Tobacco: 1 VP (1 commodity token x 1 production token)
...Sugar: 0 VP (0 commodity tokens x 2 production tokens)
...Coconut: 2 VP (2 commodity tokens x 1 production token)
...Coffee: 4 VP (2 commodity tokens x 2 production tokens)
+ 12 
VP
+ 5 gold
+ 3 gold
COMMODITY TOKENS:
PRODUCTION TOKENS:
added for next 
round
left half
right half
were shifted 
right
returned to 
the box
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 10

 
3. Progress:
Evaluate all progress tokens marked “E”. Addi-
tionally, each player scores as many victory points 
as the highest victory point value he has reached or 
passed on the progress track on his player sheet.
4. Special actions:
Each player scores as many victory points as the 
highest victory point value he has reached or 
passed on the special action track.
The player with the most victory points wins. In case of 
a tie, the tied player who is ahead of other tied players 
in player order wins the game.
Progress tokens provide their owner a positive benefit, whether during the game or at game’s end. A token’s type 
determines when a player can use that benefit. The 3 types of progress tokens are:
Here are detailed descriptions of each progress token:
Each token depicts one action.
Each time the token’s owner 
chooses this action, he receives 
2 additional action points for this 
The pirates’ strength increases by 2 
for all other players.
Each token depicts two actions.
Each time the token’s owner 
chooses either of the depicted 
actions, he receives 1 additional 
action point for this phase.
If the token’s owner cannot fight off 
the pirates completely, he loses only 
half of the victory points, rounded 
up. Note: The player must still use as 
many cannons as possible to try to defeat 
the pirates.
If the token’s owner chooses the 
“Move Ships” action, he may use 
this token to gain 8 additional 
action points for each ship for this 
If the token’s owner fights off the 
pirates completely at the end of a 
game round, he receives 2 gold.
Note: Even if the pirates’ strength is 0, the 
token’s owner receives 2 gold.
PROGRESS TOKENS
Progress:
The red player scores 7 VP from one progress token and 12 VP from 
a progress token that lets him score his gold track a second time. 
He also scores 10 VP from the progress track itself.
Special actions:
The player scores 6 VP from the 
special action track.
Extra action points:
Pirate actions:
permanent
This benefit applies for the token’s owner for the remainder of the game.
once only
This benefit can be used by the token’s owner only once; flip this token face down after using it.
end
This benefit applies only once for the token’s owner during final scoring.
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 11

© Copyright 2013 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved
During the “Plan” action, the token’s 
owner may take two neutral land-
scape tiles instead of one as long as 
he pays the cost for both tiles.
If the token’s owner uses the white 
action to advance his player order 
disc, he can disregard the number 
of action points available and place 
his player order disc on top of the 
current first player’s disc.
The token’s owner can treat green 
cubes as red and red cubes as green 
when choosing an action for the 
 phase. Thus, as long as at least one 
green or red cube is in the action 
space, the owner can choose the 
“Plan” action or the “Build” action 
when choosing an action for the 
Planning and Build actions:
Player order:
Once only, the token’s owner re-
ceives 3 gold.
Once only, the token’s owner re-
ceives 5 gold.
Each time the token’s owner estab-
lishes a trading post, he receives 1 
gold.
Note: This benefit does not apply to trading 
posts established before the owner acquired 
this token.
Each time the token’s owner takes 
gold instead of performing an action, 
he receives 1 gold for each 2 cubes 
in the action space (rounded up) 
instead of 1 gold for each 3 cubes.
Gold:
Instead of performing an action 
during a game phase, the token’s 
owner scores as many victory points 
as the number of cubes in the action 
space. Note: This token is useless during 
final scoring.
During final scoring, the token’s 
own er scores 1 victory point for each 
of his established trading posts.
During final scoring, the token’s 
owner scores 7 victory points.
During final scoring, the 
token’s owner scores 
victory points equal to 
the current level of his 
gold track.
Victory points:
Amerigo_Spielregel_US_final.indd 12