A GAME BY REINER KNIZIA
ILLUSTRATIONS BY KEVIN LE MOIGNE
INTRODUCTION
In ancient Egypt, ages and generations rise and fall under the watchful 
eyes of Amun-Re. Leading a royal family, you will contend with the other 
families to acquire provinces, build grand temples and pyramids, and 
cultivate your fields as the capricious Nile permits. At the end of Egypt’s 
classical era, history will revere only one name above all others.
Amun-Re is an auctioning and development game that evolves as ages 
go by. Claim your place as the greatest pharaoh of all time to win!
3-5
 90’
14+

THE GAME BOARD
Form a 
supply of 
Stones, 
Pyramids, 
and Double 
Pyramids in 
the Quarry.
Form a supply 
of Farmer 
tokens.
Place the Offering tiles face-up beside the game board.
Form the Gold Reserve by sorting the Gold cards 
by value, placing the resulting stacks face-up 
next to the board.
A PROVINCE
SCORE TRACK
 (VICTORY POINTS)
OFFERING TILES
ORDER AND COST 
TO PURCHASE
AFTER OFFERINGS ARE MADE, AN OFFERING TILE GOES HERE
NILE
THE 8 PROVINCES 
OF UPPER EGYPT
(UPSTREAM ON THE NILE)
THE 7 PROVINCES
 OF LOWER EGYPT
(DOWNSTREAM ON THE NILE)
FAVOR 
DECK
PROVINCE 
DECK
A FIELD 
SPACE
GOLD RESERVE

START PLAYER TOKEN 
During the game, the Start 
Player may change based 
on the Offering to Amun-
Re. Actions during the 
Auction, Market, and Harvest 
Phases always begin with 
the current Start Player, and 
proceed clockwise around 
the table until each player 
has taken his or her turn.
SET-UP
1.	 Lay the game board face-up in the center 
of the table.
2.	 Form a supply of Stones, Pyramids, and 
Double Pyramids in the Quarry.
3.	 Form a supply of Farmer tokens.
4.	 Form the Gold Reserve by sorting the Gold 
cards by value, placing the resulting stacks 
face-up beside the game board.
5.	 Place the Offering tiles face-up beside the 
game board.
6.	 Deal 1 Architect Favor card to each 
player, then shuffle the remaining 
Favor cards (with statue backs) 
together. Place this Favor deck beside 
the game board.
7.	 Build the Province deck (with 
pyramid backs) based on the 
number of players. The Province 
deck should include 3 Province 
cards per player. With 5 players, 
all Province cards will be used. 
Return any unused Province cards 
to the game box--they will not be used in 
this game.
8.	 Each player selects a 
color, then collects 
the 3 Scribe pawns of 
that color. Return the components of any 
unused colors to the game box.
9.	 Place a Victory Point marker of each 
player’s color beside the game board’s 
score track, and return any unused markers 
to the game box.
10.	Deal a combined value of 20 Gold to each 
player, using Gold cards of the following 
denominations:
11.	Deal 1 Theft card to each player, and 
return any unused Theft cards to the 
game box.
12.	Randomly determine a Start Player, and 
give that player the Start Player token.
You can and should make change 
with the stacks of Gold cards at any 
time. Whenever an amount of Gold is 
referenced, it is referring to total value 
in Gold cards, which can be formed by 
any combination of appropriate Gold 
cards. When you pay Gold for bids and 
purchases, return the Gold cards to the 
Reserve.
COMPONENTS
ROUND STRUCTURE
Each round takes place over 4 phases, in order:
OVERVIEW AND OBJECTIVE
As the leader of a royal Egyptian family, you must compete against the others to ensure history 
remembers you as the greatest pharaoh of all time! 
Amun-Re is played over the course of 2 ages, called the Old Kingdom and the New Kingdom. 
Each age consists of 3 identical rounds of play (sub-divided into 4 phases). Scoring is done at the end 
of each age. Finish the game with the most victory points to win.
These phases are described in full over the next 2 pages. For each phase and during Scoring, there are 
specific Favor cards that can be played.
Note: You cannot play 2 identical Favor cards in the same phase or during Scoring.
At any time during the game, players may discard any number of their Favor cards for 1 Gold each.
Where Province cards are dealt to the game board, and players bid against one 
another to acquire these Provinces.
Where players may purchase items and cards from the market, and place Stones and 
Farmer tokens on the game board.
Where players may sacrifice Gold to Amun-Re.
Where players collect income from their Provinces and Farmer tokens.
 
 
 
 
61 Gold cards 
(18 ones, 12 twos, 12 fives, 9 tens, 10 twenties)
5 Theft cards 
(-3 Gold)
39 Favor 
cards
15 Province 
cards
15 Scribe pawns 
(3 x 5 colors)
5 Victory Point 
markers
15 Stones
15 Pyramids
15 Double 
Pyramids
1 Game board (shown on page 2, opposite)
 
 
 
4 Offering tiles
48 Farmer 
tokens
1 Start Player 
token

At the beginning of the Auction 
Phase, draw 1 card from the 
Province deck for each player, and 
then place them face-up on the 
game board over their matching 
Provinces. These Provinces are 
available for auction during this 
round.
For each Province card you place on the game 
board, also place any Stones, Favor cards (face-
down), and Gold cards indicated in the brown 
“Immediate Bonuses” box in the Province.
Next, beginning with the Start Player and 
proceeding clockwise in order, each player must 
place a bid on a Province’s unoccupied bidding 
space, or pass if he or she already has a winning 
bid on a Province. Use one of your Scribe pawns 
to represent your bid.
When bidding on a Province that another player 
has already bid on, your bid must be greater 
than the current bid. However, you may make a 
bid that is greater than the next bidding space 
available on the Province if you wish.
If you are outbid on a Province, your next bid 
cannot be placed on the same Province. If you 
are outbid again in a future turn, you may return 
to bid on a different Province where you were 
previously outbid.
You cannot bid more Gold on a Province than you 
currently possess. 
The auction ends when exactly 1 player’s Scribe 
pawn is present on each Province. Players must 
then pay Gold to the Reserve in the amount of 
their bids and leave behind their Scribe pawns 
on the game board to indicate control over the 
appropriate Provinces. Finally, players collect any 
Stones, Favor cards, and Gold indicated on their 
newly-acquired Provinces’ brown “Immediate 
Bonuses” boxes. The Province cards are removed 
from the board and placed onto a discard pile.
Example: Thebes, Dakhla and Abydos are 
drawn and auctioned.
Seb is the Start Player. She places her Scribe 
pawn on Dakhla, bidding 10 Gold. Arnaud 
places his Scribe pawn on Thebes, bidding 
3 Gold. Charles places his Scribe pawn on 
Thebes, outbidding Arnaud with 6 Gold. 
It is now Seb’s turn again, but nobody has 
outbid her, so she must pass. Arnaud was 
outbid on Thebes, so he must change his 
bid. He places his Scribe pawn on the ‘0’ 
Gold space of Abydos.
At this point, no Province is contested, so 
the auction ends immediately. Players pay 
their bids to the Reserve, place their Scribe 
pawns in the Provinces they have acquired, 
and claim their Immediate Bonuses:
Seb pays 10 Gold, then receives 12 Gold and 
1 Favor card from Immediate Bonuses in 
Dakhla.
Arnaud pays nothing and gains control of 
Abydos, as well as the free Stone it contains.
Charles pays 6 Gold, acquires Thebes, and 
receives its 2 Favor cards.
Immediate Bonuses
Immediate Bonuses are shown in brown boxes. 
They are awarded as soon as you gain control 
of a Province.
Examples: 
•	 Immediately draw 1 Favor card
•	 Immediately place 1 Stone in the 
Province.
•	 Immediately draw 1 Favor 
card and gain 12 Gold.
Permanent Bonuses
Permanent Bonuses are displayed in the sand 
along the side of a Province’s border. They 
provide an ongoing benefit for as long as you 
control the Province.
•	 Favor: 
Indicates 
maximum 
number of Favor cards you may 
purchase during the Market Phase (1 
per symbol). Only your Province with 
the most Favor symbols counts--they are 
not added together. 
•	 Gold Mine: Provides a regular Gold 
income during each Harvest Phase.
•	 Caravan: Provides a Gold income 
during each Harvest Phase, but only 
if the Offering tile features a Camel in 
its illustration.
•	 Temple: During each Harvest 
Phase, scores Victory Points 
featured on the most recent 
Fields: Each Field space may house up 
to 1 Farmer token. Farmer tokens are 
acquired during the Market Phase, and 
provide an income of Gold based on 
the most recent Offering tile. You may not 
place Farmer tokens in Provinces that do not 
feature Field spaces.
Bribery: During your turn in the 
Auction Phase, if you have been 
outbid on a Province card, you may 
play the Bribery Favor card to make a 
higher bid on the same Province card.
Protection: When you place a bid 
during the Auction Phase, you may 
play the Protection Favor card to 
block the next-highest bidding space 
on that Province card. This means 
that another player would have to 
place his or her Scribe pawn at least 
2 bidding spaces higher to outbid 
you. If you later move your Scribe pawn to 
another Province card, your Protection Favor 
card applies there, too.
Starting with the Start Player, 
you may make purchases from 
the supply in the buying order 
indicated on the game board-
-Favor cards, then Farmers, then Stones.
When purchasing from the supply, pay Gold to the 
Reserve according to the scale printed below the 
buying order, depending on how many of that item 
you purchase. Each purchase is made separately, so 
buying 1 of each item would only cost a total of 3 
Gold. Once you have already purchased an item, or 
passed on an opportunity to do so in the order, you 
will not have another chance to buy that item during 
your turn.
You may purchase:
•	 0-4 Favor cards, which are drawn from 
the Favor deck. The maximum number 
of cards you may purchase is determined 
by the highest number of Favor symbols 
present in a single Province you control. 
If you do not control a Province with 
1 or more Favor symbols, you cannot 
purchase Favor cards.
•	 Farmer tokens, which must each be placed 
immediately in an open Field space in a 
Province you control. You cannot purchase 
Farmer tokens that you are unable to 
place. Farmer tokens cannot be placed in 
Provinces that have no Field spaces.
•	 Stones, 
which 
must 
be 
placed 
immediately in one or more Provinces 
you control.
Free Farmer: Play a Free Farmer 
Favor card during your turn in the 
Market Phase. When you do, acquire 
1 Farmer token from the supply 
at no cost, and place it in any 
Province you control. Unlike other 
Farmer tokens, a Free Farmer is not placed 
in a Field space. It may be placed in any 
Province you control, even if that Province 
does not feature any Field spaces. Acquiring 
a Free Farmer is separate from your normal 
purchase of Farmer tokens--if you decide to 
buy 3 other Farmers, for example, you will 
still only pay 6 Gold.

During the Offering Phase, players choose and 
simultaneously reveal Gold cards or a Theft 
card, representing a joint offering to Amun-Re 
to convince him to flood the Nile. The sum 
of the offered Gold dictates the scoring value 
of Temples, as well as the incomes offered 
by Farmers and Caravans during the Harvest 
Preparing Individual Offerings: 
Secretly select 1 or more of your cards and, 
covering them with your hand, hold them out to 
show that you have finalized your Offering. Once 
all players have finalized their Offerings, reveal 
them simultaneously.
•	 If you offer 1 or more Gold 
cards, your Offering’s value is 
equal to the sum of all Gold cards 
you contributed.
•	 If you offer your Theft card, 
you instead steal 3 Gold from the 
Reserve.
In either case, you may include a blue Favor card 
to adjust the Offering. Other Favor cards may not 
be included in the Offering.
Calculate the Collective Offering:
•	 Add 
individual 
Offerings 
together, remembering to reduce 
that total by 3 for each Theft card 
that was played.
•	 Beginning with the Start Player and proceeding 
clockwise in order, players that included a 
blue Offering Adjustment Favor card in their 
Offering must now declare whether they would 
like to increase or decrease the Offering. 
These adjustments only affect the value of the 
collective Offering--the value of your individual 
Offering is unaffected.
•	 Once the collective Offering has been 
calculated, 
place 
corresponding 
Offering tile in the Nile Delta space. (For 
example, if the total Offering is 10, use the tile 
marked 3>12. If the Offering is 25, use the tile 
marked 23>).
•	 If you played your Theft card, return it to your 
hand. Remember to steal your 3 Gold from the 
supply!
Effects of the Offering:
•	 Collect rewards - The player that contributed 
the most to the Offering may now collect 3 
Rewards. These Rewards may be any combination 
of Favor cards, Stones, and/or Farmer tokens. 
The player that contributed the second highest 
Offering collects 2 Rewards, and all other players 
collect 1 Reward in turn order. However, players 
that played a Theft card cannot collect a Reward.
In a tie, the player earliest in turn order 
wins.
The number of Favor cards you can acquire from 
a Reward is not limited by the Permanent Bonus 
Favor card symbols in your Provinces (unlike in 
the Market Phase). Farmer tokens must be placed 
in open Field spaces and Stones must be placed 
immediately in your Provinces. If there are ever 3 
Stones in the same Province, replace them with 
the appropriate Pyramid.
Reminder: Architect and Free Farmer Favor 
cards cannot be played during the Offering 
•	 Determine the new Start Player - 
The player who offered the most 
Gold collects the Start Player token, 
and will be the new Start Player for 
the next round. If there is a tie, the 
player earliest in the current turn 
order becomes the new Start Player.
Example: Arnaud is the Start Player. He 
offered 6 Gold, Charles offered 6 Gold, 
and Seb played the Theft card. The sum 
of all Offerings is 9 Gold (6 + 6 - 3 = 9). 
Players place the corresponding tile on the 
board: “3 > 12”. Seb takes back her Theft 
card, and collects 3 Gold from the Reserve. 
Charles and Arnaud have offered the same 
amount, but Arnaud is earlier in turn 
order. Therefore, Arnaud retains the Start 
Player token and collects 3 Favor cards as 
his 3 Rewards. Charles collects a Stone 
and a Farmer token as his 2 Rewards, and 
immediately places them in Provinces he 
controls. Seb does not collect any Rewards.
Unlike Favor cards, it is possible to purchase more 
Farmer tokens or Stones than is shown by the cost 
scale on the board, as long as you have space 
for them. If you want to purchase more than 7, 
calculate the cost by following the formula below:
The cost to purchase 8 = the cost to purchase 
7 (28) + 8 = 36 Gold; the cost to purchase 
9 = the cost to purchase 8 (36) + 9 = 45 
Gold; etc.
You are not obligated to make any purchases. 
However, if you do, you must make all of your 
purchases before passing the turn to the next 
player.
Construction: As soon as a third Stone is placed 
in a single Province, immediately replace those 
Stones with a single Pyramid. If a single Pyramid 
was already present in that Province, then replace 
it with a Double Pyramid.
Multiple Pyramids may be built in the same turn, 
as long as each Pyramid’s Stone requirements are 
met.
Example: Charles controls Thebes and Edfu. 
He can purchase a maximum of 2 Favor cards. 
He purchases only 1, paying 1 Gold. 
He then purchases 4 Farmer tokens for 10 Gold, 
which he must immediately place in his empty 
Field spaces. 
Finally, he purchases 3 Stones for 6 Gold and 
places them in the Province of Thebes. Since 
Thebes now has 3 Stones in it, he places a 
Pyramid in Thebes and returns those 3 Stones 
to the quarry.
Architect: Play an Architect Favor 
card during your turn in the Market 
Phase. When you do, you may build 
1 Pyramid in a Province you control 
using only 2 Stones. You may not 
play an Architect Favor card during 
any other Phase, even if you have just placed 
a second Stone in a Province you control, and 
if you have placed a third Stone, all 3 Stones 
are immediately replaced with a Pyramid 
even if you possess an Architect Favor card.
The Nile has flooded. Beginning with the Start 
Player and proceeding clockwise in order, players 
will now receive income from the Provinces that 
they control.
Each of your Provinces may allow you to collect 
Gold from the supply as indicated by its icons. 
You may earn from your Provinces in the following 
ways:
a)	
For Gold Mines - Gain Gold equal to the 
indicated number.
b)	
For Caravans - Gain Gold equal to the 
number indicated above the camel, but 
only if a camel is depicted on the current 
c)	
For each Farmer Token in the Provinces 
you control - Gain Gold equal to the 
amount shown on the current Offering tile.
Big Harvest: Play this Favor card 
during the Harvest Phase, before 
calculating your income. When you 
do, select a single Province you 
control. Each Farmer token in that 
Province provides 1 additional Gold 
this turn.
Treasury: Play this Favor card during 
the Harvest Phase, before calculating 
your income. When you do, select a 
single Province you control. Do not 
collect income from that Province this 
turn - not from Farmers, Caravans, or 
Gold Mines. Instead, collect 8 Gold 
from the Reserve.

END OF THE ROUND, AGE, AND GAME
After all players are finished with the Harvest Phase, the round ends, 
and a new round begins.
•	If this was the third round of an age, the Province deck will be empty. 
When this occurs, the age ends, and Intermediate Scoring occurs.
•	After Intermediate Scoring, if that was the end of the second age 
(New Kingdom), then proceed to Final Scoring and the game’s end!
INTERMEDIATE SCORING
Intermediate Scoring occurs at the end of each age. To perform 
Intermediate Scoring, award Victory Points (VP) for the following:
•	 +1, +2, +3, or +4 VP for each Temple depicted among Provinces 
you control. The scoring value of each Temple is determined by the 
Gold shown on the current Offering tile.
•	 +1 VP for each Pyramid in a Province you control. Double 
Pyramids count as 2 Pyramids.
•	 +3 VP for each Pyramid in your single Province with the fewest 
Pyramids. If you control a Province with no Pyramids, then you do 
not score any VP for this item.
•	 +5 VP for the Province that contains the most Pyramids on 
each side of the Nile (+5 VP for the west, and +5 for the east). In 
case of a tie, the player whose Province contains more Stones scores 
the VP. In case of a further tie, all tied players score the VP.
•	 +3 VP for each yellow Favor card whose conditions are satisfied.
Reminder: You cannot play 2 identical Favor cards during the 
same phase or during Scoring.
If this is the end of the first age (Old Kingdom), remove all Scribe 
pawns and Farmer tokens from the game board, returning the Farmer 
tokens to the supply. Collect all of the Province cards from the game 
board and shuffle them into the Province deck.
Pyramids and Stones are not removed from their Provinces, 
and remain on the game board. They are no longer considered 
controlled by any player until that Province is claimed in a future 
Auction Phase.
If this is the end of the second age (New Kingdom), immediately 
proceed to Final Scoring.
FINAL SCORING
To perform Final Scoring, players reveal their Gold cards. Award Victory 
Points (VP) for the following:
•	 +6 VP to the player with the highest combined value of Gold cards,
•	 +4 VP to the player with the second highest value,
•	 +2 VP to the player with the third highest value.
In case of a tie, all tied players score the appropriate VP, but subsequent 
players are moved down. For example, if 2 players are tied for highest 
value, they both score +6 VP, the player with the second highest value 
then only scores +2 VP.
After all VP has been awarded, the player with the most VP wins! 
In the event of a tie, the tied player with the most Pyramids among 
his or her Provinces wins. If there is still a tie, the player with the 
most Stones among his or her Provinces wins. If still tied, the victory 
is shared.
EXAMPLE OF THE BEGINNING OF A GAME
In this example of a 4-player game the Province deck consists of 12 
cards (3 x 4 players). Bernard is the Start Player.
Bernard draws 4 cards from the Province deck, and places them face-
up on the board: Thebes, Avaris, Buto, and Mendes. He places 2 face-
down Favor cards in Thebes and 1 in Buto, as indicated under those 
Provinces’ Immediate Bonuses. 
Bernard puts his Scribe pawn on the Thebes card, bidding 6 Gold. 
Charles places his Scribe pawn on Buto and bids 0 Gold. Arnaud places 
his Scribe pawn on Buto and bids 3 Gold. Alexandre puts his Scribe 
pawn on Mendes, bidding 3 Gold. Charles, having been outbid on Buto, 
moves his Scribe pawn to Mendes and bids 6 Gold. Alexandre must 
make a new bid, and moves his Scribe pawn to Avaris, bidding 0 Gold.
The auction ends, since exactly 1 Scribe pawn is present on each 
Province card. Each player pays the amount of their bid and leaves 
their Scribe pawns behind to mark control of their new Provinces. 
Bernard acquires the 2 Favor cards in Thebes, and Arnaud takes the 
Favor card in Buto. The Province cards are placed onto a discard pile.
Thebes allows Bernard to purchase up to 2 Favor cards, and he does 
so by spending 3 Gold. He also purchases 3 Farmer tokens for 6 Gold, 
which he places on the Field spaces in Thebes. Finally, he purchases 
1 Stone for 1 Gold, which he also places in Thebes. Bernard pays his 
total--10 Gold--to the Reserve.
Charles has no Favor symbols in his Province, and therefore 
cannot purchase any Favor cards. He buys 4 Farmer tokens for 
10 Gold, and 2 Stones for 3 Gold. He then uses his Architect 
Favor card to replace the 2 Stones in his Province with 1 
Pyramid. He pays 13 Gold in total.
Arnaud has no Favor symbols in his Province either. He purchases 3 
Farmer tokens for 6 Gold, and 3 Stones for 6 Gold. He pays 12 Gold in 
total, and replaces his 3 Stones with 1 Pyramid in his Province.
Alexandre purchases 1 Favor card for 1 Gold, 1 Farmer token for 1 Gold, 
and 5 Stones for 15 Gold. He pays 17 Gold in total, turns 3 Stones into 
1 Pyramid, and uses his Architect Favor card to replace the remaining 2 
Stones with another Pyramid. The 2 Pyramids in his Province are then 
replaced by 1 Double Pyramid.
Bernard reveals 1 Gold card (5 Gold). Charles reveals 2 Gold 
cards (1+1 = 2 Gold). Arnaud reveals 2 Gold cards (5 + 1 = 
6 Gold), and an Offering Adjustment Favor card. Alexandre 
reveals his Theft card.
The value of the collective Offering is 10 (5 + 2 + 6 - 3). 
Charles uses his Offering Adjustment card to increase the 
value of collective Offering by 3, raising it to 13. The 13 > 
22 Offering tile is placed on the Nile Delta.
Arnaud, who contributed the most Gold to the Offering, 
collects the Start Player token and 3 Rewards. For those Rewards, he 
chooses to take 1 Favor card and 2 Farmer tokens, which he places in 
the Field spaces of Buto. Bernard contributed the second best Offering, 
and collects 1 Favor card and 1 Stone, which he places on Thebes. 
Finally Charles acquires 1 Favor card. Alexandre returns his Theft card 
to his hand, and steals 3 Gold from the Reserve.
The current Offering tile indicates that Farmer tokens provide 3 Gold 
each this turn. Since this tile does not depict a Camel, Caravans do 
not provide income.
Arnaud’s 5 Farmer tokens provide 3 Gold each, for a total of 15 Gold.
Alexandre plays the Treasury Favor card. He chooses not to take any 
income from his Province, and instead receives 8 Gold.
Bernard’s 3 Farmer tokens provide a total of 9 Gold.
Charles’s 4 Farmer tokens provide a total of 12 Gold.
This marks the end of the first round. As the new Start Player, 
Arnaud begins the next round by drawing 4 new Provinces.
EXPERT RULES
Expert rules allow tactical control of when Provinces are 
available.
At the start of the game, after shuffling the Province deck, 
deal 3 Province cards to each player. Return any remaining 
Province cards to the game box without looking at them. 
Keep these cards secret from other players.
At the beginning of each Auction Phase, each player 
selects 1 Province card, and the chosen cards are revealed 
simultaneously. These Province cards are available during 
this turn’s auction.
At the beginning of the New Kingdom, shuffle all 
Province cards that were played during the Old 
Kingdom, and deal them out evenly to each player.

FAVOR CARD REFERENCE
Note: Any Favor card can always be discarded for 1 Gold.
Protection (x2) 
Play during your turn in the Auction Phase. 
Until the end of the Phase, players cannot 
outbid you at any Province unless they place 
their Scribe pawn at least 2 bidding spaces 
ahead of yours.
Bribery (x2)
Play during your turn in the Auction 
Phase, if you have been outbid on a 
Province card. You may make a new 
bid on the same Province card.
Architect (x8) 
You may construct a Pyramid 
using 2 Stones instead of 3.
Free Farmer (x5) 
Place a Farmer token from the supply 
into a Province you control at no cost. 
The Free Farmer token is not placed 
in a Field space. It may be placed in 
a Province that does not feature any 
Field spaces.
Offering Adjustment (x4) 
Play this card as part of your Offering. After all 
Offerings have been revealed, in turn order, you 
may choose to add or subtract 3 from the value 
of the collective Offering. This adjustment does 
not affect the value of your individual Offering.
Big Harvest (x5) 
Choose a Province you control. Each 
Farmer token in that Province provides 
1 additional Gold during this Harvest 
Treasury (x3)
Choose a Province you control. That 
Province provides no income this round, and 
you instead collect 8 Gold from the Reserve.
Theft (x5): The Theft card is not a Favor card and 
may not be exchanged for 1 Gold. You may play it 
as your Offering in order to steal 3 Gold from the 
Reserve. You begin the game with 1 Theft card,and 
it returns to your hand at the end of the Offering 
Phase whenever you play it.
INTERMEDIATE SCORING
•	+1, +2, +3, or +4 VP for each Temple in a Province you 
control, based on the Gold value features on the current 
•	+1 VP for each Pyramid in a Province you control.
•	+3 VP for each Pyramid in the Province you control with the 
fewest Pyramids.
•	+5 VP if you have the Province with the most Pyramids on 
any single side of the Nile. Ties are broken by Stones. Each 
side of the river--east and west--score separately.
•	+3 VP for each yellow Favor card whose conditions you have 
satisfied (see below).
FINAL SCORING
•	+6 VP to the player with the highest total value of Gold cards,
•	+4 VP to the player with the second most Gold,
•	+2 VP to the player with the third most Gold.
In case of a tie for any of these rewards, all tied players score, 
but subsequent rewards are pushed down.
FAVOR CARDS THAT GRANT VICTORY POINTS 
DURING INTERMEDIATE SCORING
Master of Scribes(x2)
+3 VP if your Provinces 
feature a total of at least 7 
Favor symbols (Immediate 
and/or Permanent).
Master of Farmers (x2) 
+3 VP if your Provinces contain 
at least 9 Farmer tokens.
West Side or East Side (x2) 
+3 VP if all of your Provinces are 
on the same side of the Nile.
Nile or Frontier (x2) 
+3 VP if all of your Provinces 
are next to the Nile, or if none 
of them are next to the Nile.
Upper or Lower Egypt (x2) 
+3 VP if all of your Provinces 
are in Upper Egypt, or if they 
are all in Lower Egypt.
Discard these cards after using them to score. You may 
score multiple Favor cards during each Intermediate 
Scoring, but you may not score multiple copies of the 
same card.

CREDITS
Game Designer: Reiner Knizia
© Dr. Reiner Knizia, 2016. All rights Reserved. 
Graphic Design & Artwork: ©2016 SUPERMEEPLE. 
Artist: Kevin Le Moigne
Writing and editing the rules: Guillaume Gille-Naves and Bernard Philippon 
Art Direction: Igor Polouchine
Development & Layout: ORIGAMES
Thanks to all the testers that helped us on this project, as well as our family and friends for their 
support. A special thank-you to William and Igor from Origames for their valuable assistance.
For their help in testing and rule writing, the author and publisher thank Iain Adams, Sebastian 
Bleasdale, Chris Bowyer, Chris Dearlove, Martin Higham, Ross Inglis, Kevin Jacklin, Chris Lawson, 
Karl-Heinz Schmiel, Hannes Wildner, and Schorsch. We offer special thanks to Markus Welbourne 
for his cooperation in the development of the game and to Dieter Hornung for his efforts to 
optimize the game.
Used under license by Tasty Minstrel Games LLC
Jeu en anglais. Importé au Canada par TMG.
SUPERMEEPLE and its logo are registered trademarks of SUPER MEEPLE.
TMG logo is a trademark of Tasty Minstrel Games LLC
Manufactured in China.
RULES SUMMARY
•	 Arrange the board and components on the table.
•	 Each player chooses a color, places a Victory Point marker of that color 
beside the score track, then collects the 3 Scribe pawns of that color.
•	 Give each player 20 Gold, 1 Theft card, and 1 Architect Favor card. Remaining 
Theft cards, Scribe pawns, and Victory Point markers are returned to the game 
box.
•	 Build the Province and Favor decks, shuffle them separately, and then place 
them face-down on the game board. The Province deck should consist of 
3 Province cards per player--all leftover Province cards should be returned, 
unseen, to the game box.
•	 Determine a Start Player at random, and give that player the Start Player 
token. Actions begin with the Start Player and proceed clockwise around the 
table.
STRUCTURE OF AN AGE
An age consists of 3 rounds. At the end of the 3rd round, proceed to 
Intermediate Scoring.
Each round is divided into 4 phases, which take place in the following order:
Draw and place 1 Province card on the game board for each player.
•	 Beginning with the Start Player, make a bid by placing your Scribe pawn on an 
empty bidding space on any Province card. When bidding on a Province where 
a bid is already present, you must place your bid on a higher bidding space. 
When it is your turn again, you must pass (if your bid is still the highest in a 
Province), or move your Scribe pawn to bid on a different Province if you have 
been outbid.
•	 As soon as each Province card has exactly 1 Scribe pawn on it, the auction 
ends. Pay Gold to the Reserve equal to the number on your pawn’s bidding 
space, and leave your Scribe pawn behind to indicate you now control that 
Province. Next, collect any Immediate Bonuses shown in the brown box in 
your newly acquired Province.
Beginning with the Start Player, you may purchase the following items from 
the supply for the Gold value indicated on the game board’s cost scale: 
•	 0-4 Favor cards, limited by the highest number of Favor symbols present in 
a single Province you control
•	 Farmer tokens, limited by the open Field spaces among Provinces you control
•	 Any number of Stones
Whenever a single Province holds 3 or more Stones, replace 3 of those Stones 
with 1 Pyramid (or a Double Pyramid if that Province already contains a 
single Pyramid).
Players simultaneously present their Offering of Gold to Amun-Re.
•	 The player that contributes the most becomes the new Start Player.
•	 Place the appropriate Offering tile on the Nile Delta space (based on 
the combined value of all players’ Offerings).
•	 Players receive Rewards from the supply based on their individual offerings: 3, 
2, and 1 Favor cards, Farmer tokens, and/or Stones (in any combination) for 
1st, 2nd, and all further players.
Reminder: If you played a Theft card as your Offering, you cannot collect any 
Reward, but you do steal 3 Gold from the Reserve.
4. HARVEST AND INCOME
• Each Farmer token = Gold indicated on the current Offering tile
• Caravans = Gold indicated on the Province above the Camel, but only if the 
current Offering tile features a Camel
• Gold Mines = Gold as indicated on the Province
END OF THE ROUND, AGE, AND GAME
Each age lasts 3 rounds, then you have reached the end of an age, and should 
proceed to Intermediate Scoring.
After Intermediate Scoring at the end of the Old Kingdom, remove Scribe 
pawns and Farmer tokens from the game board, and reshuffle the Province 
deck. Pyramids and Stones remain on the game board, but the Provinces are 
no longer considered to be controlled.
After Intermediate Scoring at the end of the New Kingdom, proceed to Final 
Scoring. After Final Scoring, the game ends, and the player with the most 
Victory Points wins.
1 game = 2 ages: the Old Kingdom and New Kingdom
1 age = 3 rounds + Intermediate scoring
1 round = 4 phases: Auction, Market, Offering, and Harvest