Rule book © 2012 Néstor Romeral Andrés. 
Rules © 1982 David L. Smith. 
ANDANTINO 
(AN-DAN-TEE-NO) 
 
A tile-placement game for two players by 
David L. Smith 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
“Andantino” is a musical term meaning “to be 
played in a somewhat leisurely manner”. That 
advice suits this game admirably. For those 
wishing to pass some idle moments with a 
friend, a leisurely attitude is perfectly in order. 
But for those whose interest lies in winning more 
games than they lose, a somewhat less leisurely 
approach is undoubtedly called for. Either way, 
ANDANTINO is an entertaining absorbing and 
highly addictive game of skill for any two 
players. 
 
MATERIAL 
 
ANDANTINO includes a carrying case, 25 white 
hexagonal tiles and 25 red hexagonal tiles 
(called hexes). Other colours are also available 
on the nestorgames website. 
 
RULES 
 
Setup 
 
The playing surface is initially empty. Place two 
hexes (one of each colour) adjacent to each 
other in the middle of the playing surface. 
 
 
 
Each player takes a set of 24 hexes of the same 
colour (white or red). 
 
Play 
 
Starting with white, players alternate turns 
placing a hexagonal tile of their colour adjacent 
to at least 2 other hexes already played until the 
victory condition is reached or until all the tiles 
have been played, whatever happens first. 
 
Variant (by Néstor Romeral Andrés): The 
second player can disobey this adjacency rule 
once, by placing a hex adjacent to 1 tile only. 
This diminishes the first player advantage. 
 
Aim 
 
The game is won by the first player to either 
 
a) complete a straight line of 5 consecutive 
pieces of their colour or… 
 
b) fully enclose (i.e. “trap”) any or more 
opponent’s pieces inside a loop of 6 or 
more own pieces. 
 
Note that traps can include gaps (empty areas) 
provided they’re also fully enclosed by the 
surrounding pieces. 
 
The game is drawn if neither objective is 
achieved by either player after all 50 pieces 
have been played. 
 
 
 
Example: Red wins with a line of 5. 
 
 
 
Examples: White wins on the left example by 
surrounding red. Red wins on the right example 
by surrounding white, even if a gap is inside the 
loop. 
 
VARIANT 
 
If all 50 tiles have been played, players can 
continue playing by picking up already played 
pieces of their colour and legally placing them 
somewhere else until the victory condition is 
reached. 
 
SCORING 
 
To score your games, award 50 points for each 
win minus 1 point for every piece played by both 
players. Highest aggregate score after an 
agreed number of games have been played 
wins the series.