R U L E S O F P L AY
© 2018 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2. Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3. Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4. Special Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8
5. Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	10
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
6. Propaganda Rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	10
7. Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
8. Non-Player Factions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
Key Terms Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	19
Available Forces. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
by Volko Ruhnke
COIN Series, Volume I
SECOND EDITION

1.0 INTRODUCTION
Andean Abyss is a 1-4-player game depicting insurgent and 
counterinsurgent (COIN) conflict in Colombia during the 1990s 
and early 2000s. Each player takes the role of a Faction seek­
ing to run Colombian affairs: the Government (Govt) or 1 of 3 
Insurgent Factions—the Marxist FARC, the right-wing AUC 
“paramilitaries”, or the narco-trafficking Cartels. Using military, 
political, and economic actions and exploiting various events, 
players build and maneuver forces to influence the population, 
extract resources, or otherwise achieve their Faction’s aims. A 
deck of cards regulates turn order, events, victory checks, and 
other processes. The rules can run non-player Factions, enabling 
solitaire, 2-player, or multi-player games.
Andean Abyss is the inaugural volume in the COIN Series of 
games that use similar rules to cover a variety of insurgencies and 
other inter-factional conflicts. This Second Edition extensively 
alters and augments rules and play aids throughout to bring this 
volume up to date within the Series. Updated cards are marked 
“2nd Ed”.
This rule book lists and defines key game terms in an index on 
pages 19-20. The most important game functions are summarized 
on several aid sheets. Game setup is explained on the flip side of 
the Sequence of Play aid sheet. 
1.1 General Course of Play
Andean Abyss—unlike most card-assisted war games—does not 
use hands of cards. Instead, cards are played from the deck one at 
time, with one card ahead revealed to all players. Each Event card 
shows the order in which the Factions become Eligible to choose 
between the card’s Event or one of a menu of Operations and 
Special Activities. Executing an Event or Operation carries the 
penalty of rendering that Faction Ineligible to do so on the next 
card. Propaganda cards mixed in with the Event cards provide 
periodic opportunities for instant wins and for activities such as 
collecting resources and influencing popular sympathies.
1.2 Components
A complete set of Andean Abyss includes:
•	 A 22”x34” mounted game board.
•	 A deck of 76 cards.
•	 153 dark and light blue, red, green, and yellow wooden forces 
pieces, some embossed (1.4; see “Available Forces” on the rule 
book’s back for a complete listing).
•	 8 cylinders, embossed (1.7, 2.2).
•	 6 black and 6 white pawns (3.1.1).
•	 A sheet of markers.
•	 2 Sequence of Play and Setup sheets.
•	 4 Faction player aid foldouts.
•	 1 Non-player Insurgents flowcharts foldout.
•	 1 Non-player aid foldout with Government flowchart.
•	 3 6-sided dice: 1 red, 1 yellow, 1 green.
•	 A background Playbook.
•	 This rule book.
1.3 The Map
The map shows the country of Colombia divided into various 
types of spaces, as well as parts of neighboring countries.
1.3.1 Map Spaces. Map spaces include rural Departments 
(Depts), urban Cities, and Lines of Communication (LoCs) 
between them. All spaces—including LoCs—can hold forces. 
Mountain Department
(Dept)
Line of Communication
(Pipeline)
City
Grassland Department
Forest Department
Town
Department Boundary
Department Name
Population Value
Place bases here
At Start set up
Line of Communication
(Road)
Place Terror markers here
Place Support and Opposition 
markers here

1.3.2 Departments. Each Department shows a Population value 
(Pop) of 0, 1, or 2 that affects victory via Support for or Oppo­
sition to the Government (1.6) and some Insurgent Operations 
(3.3). Departments are further distinguished by terrain as Tropical 
Forest (Forest), Mountain, or Grassland, affecting some COIN 
Operations (3.2) and Events (5.0).
1.3.3 Cities. Each City similarly shows a Population value of 1 
to 8 (each Population value representing a million Colombians).
1.3.4 LoCs. Each Line of Communication (LoC) shows an Eco­
nomic value (Econ) of 1 to 3 that affects Government Resources 
(1.7). LoCs are further distinguished as Roads or Pipelines. 
Pipelines tend to have higher Economic value and affect certain 
Events.
DESIGN NOTE: LoCs also represent other transportation ar­
teries and infrastructure such as power lines that parallel roads 
and pipelines.
1.3.5 Foreign Countries. The map includes parts of Brazil (Bra­
sil), Ecuador, Panamá, Perú, and Venezuela. They are not spaces 
(1.3.1) unless and until specified by Event (5.0). 
EXAMPLE: The “Darién” Event renders Panamá a 0 Population 
Forest Department for all purposes, except that Sweep Opera­
tions do not Activate Guerrillas there (3.2.3).
NOTE: Venezuela is next to Guainía but not Vaupés, affecting 
the “Hugo Chávez” Event.
1.3.6 Adjacency. Adjacency affects the movement of forces and 
implementation of certain Events. Any 2 spaces meeting one of 
the following conditions are adjacent:
•	 Spaces that border on (touch) one another.
•	 Departments separated by LoCs.
•	 LoCs or Departments separated by Towns.
NOTE: Towns are not spaces; they merely separate LoCs or 
Departments. 
1.3.7 Coasts. Spaces adjacent to blue areas are coastal, affecting 
the “Narco-Subs” Event.
1.4 Forces
The wooden pieces represent the Factions’ various forces: Gov­
ernment Troops (dark-blue cubes) and Police (light-blue cubes), 
Insurgent Guerrillas, and all Factions’ Bases. 
Government Cubes:
Guerrillas:
Bases:
Troops
Police
Underground
Active
AUC
Cartels
Use to mark City and
Department Control (1.8)
Use to mark FARC Zones
(6.4.4)
Govt Capa­
bilities
Use on the Edge Track:
Victory-related and Aid markers
Use on the Propa­
ganda Track
Support and Opposition markers
(1.6.2)
Terror
(3.3.4)
Event Reminder
markers
Sabotage
(3.3.4)
Drug Shipment
Overflow marker
TYPES OF FORCES
ADJACENCY EXAMPLE: The 4 Departments and 4 LoCs around 
the Town of Ayacucho are all adjacent to each other because they 
are separated by a Town. Antioquia and the Forest Department 
to the west are adjacent because they are separated by a LoC. 
Govern­
ment

•	 With 3 players, AUC runs the Cartels.
•	 With 2 players, Government runs AUC; FARC runs the Cartels. 
A player running two Factions uses the lower victory margin of 
the two (7.1-.3) and only causes play to end on a victory check 
(6.1) if both Factions are meeting their conditions. Players may 
not voluntarily transfer (1.5.2) between their own Factions.
Non-Player Option: If playing solitaire, or as an alternative 
to the above with two or three players, use the Non-player 
rules in section 8 to govern leftover Factions:
1.5.2 Negotiation. Players may make any mutual arrangements 
within the rules but may voluntarily transfer only Resources (1.7) 
or Shipments (4.5.3) and only during either’s execution by the 
Sequence of Play (2.3.4) of an Operation or Event. All negoti­
ations are open. The rules do not bind players to agreements.
1.6 Support and Opposition 
Support and Opposition affect victory and some Operations. 
1.6.1 Cities and Departments with at least 1 Population (1.3.2-3) 
always show 1 of 5 levels of its populace’s Support for or Oppo­
sition to the Government that can shift during play: 
•	 Active Support.
•	 Passive Support.
•	 Neutral.
•	 Passive Opposition.
•	 Active Opposition.
1.6.2 Show Active or Passive Support or Opposition with mark­
ers placed in each City or Department. Show Neutral spaces by 
the absence of such markers. Active Support/Opposition counts 
double for Total Support/Opposition (1.6.3). 
NOTE: LoCs (1.3.4) and Population 0 Departments never hold 
Support or Opposition markers (they are always Neutral). 
1.6.3 Total Support and Total Opposi­
tion. Government or FARC victory de­
pends on the total value of population 
Support or Opposition (plus FARC Bases, 
7.2), respectively. Adjust “Total Support” or “Opposi­
tion + Bases” on the numbered edge track per the box 
below as any change to Support, Opposition, or the 
number of FARC Bases occurs.
Total Support and Opposition Equations
Total Support equals:
(2 x Population in Active Support) + (1 x Population in Passive 
Support)
Total Opposition equals:
(2 x Population in Active Opposition) + (1 x Population in 
Passive Opposition)
Opposition + Bases equals:
Total Opposition + The number of FARC Bases on the map
DESIGN NOTE: Bases represent not only training and bivouac 
facilities but also, for the Insurgents, political administration as 
well as coca or poppy fields and processing labs.
PLAY NOTE: Use “Overflow” boxes for Forces that exceed the 
room in a City or smaller Department on the map; place the 
corresponding Overflow marker in that space.
1.4.1 Availability and Removal. The inventory shown on the 
“Available Forces” chart on the back of this rule book limits the 
number of pieces that may be in play. Keep forces not on the 
map in the Available Forces holding areas. (Place Bases in the 
highest-numbered empty circles, revealing the number of on-map 
Bases to help track victory, 7.0)
•	 Forces may only be placed from or replaced with those avail­
able in the holding areas—ignore any instructions to place 
forces if the appropriate type is not available because all are 
already on the map (remove rather than replace such pieces; 
see also next bullet).
•	 Important: A player Faction while executing an Operation or 
Event by the Sequence of Play (2.3.4, 3.0, 5.0), may remove 
its own pieces to Available Forces. EXAMPLE: Insurgents 
without Available Guerrillas could remove Guerrillas during 
a Rally (3.3.1) in order to place them Underground. 
•	 Once an enemy Faction is targeted, removal or Activation 
of pieces to the extent of the executing Faction’s ability is 
required. EXAMPLE: A Government Assault (3.2.4) with 3 
Troops in Forest must remove 3 Active pieces if there are at 
least that many among those Factions targeted.
1.4.2 Stacking. No more than 2 Bases (regardless of Faction) 
may occupy a single Department or City. Bases may not occupy 
LoCs. Government forces may not occupy a FARC Zone (6.4.4). 
(See also the “Sucumbíos” Event regarding Ecuador.) Ignore any 
instructions (such as from Operations or Events) to place or move 
forces if stacking would be violated. Except as noted above, any 
number of Government cubes and Guerrillas may occupy a space.
1.4.3 Underground/Active. Guerrillas are either 
Underground—symbol end down—or Ac­
tive-symbol end up. Certain actions and Events 
flip them from one to the other state. Bases, Troops, and Police 
are always Active. Always set up and place new Guerrillas Un­
derground (including if replacing a piece).
NOTE: Unless instructions specify “Underground” Guerrilla, 
it is sufficient to “Activate” already Active Guerrillas (they stay 
Active).
1.5 Players & Factions
Andean Abyss is playable by 1-4 players. The 1st player plays 
the Government (blue), the 2nd the FARC (red), the 3rd the AUC 
(yellow), and the 4th the Cartels (green) (2.1). (If preferred, the 
3rd player in a 3-player game can play Cartels instead of AUC.) 
Each of these Factions is enemy to all others. Leftover Factions 
are Non-Player; their actions are governed by rules section 8. 
See the Playbook for a Role Summary of each Faction. 
1.5.1 Spare Factions. With two or three players, the players run 
leftover Factions:

1.7 Resources and Aid
At any moment, each Faction has between 0 and 99 
Resources that it uses to pay for Operations (3.0). 
During some Propaganda Rounds (6.3.1) and 
Events, a level of Aid (between 0 and 29) adds to 
Government Resources. Mark Resources and Aid on the edge 
track—for Resources, with a cylinder of the Faction’s color (1.5).
1.8 Control
 
The Government Controls a City or 
Department if its pieces alone exceed 
those of all other Factions combined. In 
the same way, FARC Controls a City or 
Department if its pieces alone exceed those of all other Factions 
combined. Cities or Departments that are not Controlled by either 
the Government or FARC are Uncontrolled. As helpful, place 
appropriate Control markers on spaces as reminders.
PLAY NOTE: Control mainly affects Propaganda Round (6.2-6.5) 
and some Non-player Government actions (section 8).
DESIGN NOTE: “FARC Control” of a City might not represent 
complete military control of a major urban area but rather suf- 
ficient presence to inhibit commerce and encourage resistance 
to government authority.
2.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
2.1 Set Up
Follow the instructions onthe flip side of the Sequence of Play 
aid sheet to decide upon various play options, assign Factions to 
players, prepare the deck, and set up markers and forces. 
2.2 Start 
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile. Then reveal the next card on top of 
the draw deck. The card on the played card stack is played first; 
the card on top of the draw deck will be played next. NOTE: 
Players will see 1 card ahead into the deck. All played cards 
and the number of cards in the draw deck are open to inspection.
RECORD STEPS: As the steps of each Event card play are 
completed, place a cylinder of the Faction’s color (1.5) into the 
Sequence of Play track’s appropriate box (or, for Propaganda 
Rounds [6.0], advance the Prop Card marker).
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, up to 2 Factions will execute Opera­
tions or the Event; other Factions may Pass and collect Resources. 
•	 Factions whose cylinder is in the “Eligible” box receive these 
options in the left-to-right order of the Faction symbols shown 
at the top of the card. 
•	 Factions with cylinders in the “Ineligible” box do nothing. 
2.3.1 Eligibility. Factions that did not execute an Operation or 
Event on the previous card are Eligible (their cylinders will start 
the card in the “Eligible” box per 2.3.7). Factions that did are 
Ineligible. (All Factions start the game Eligible.) See also Free 
Operations, 3.1.2.
2.3.2 Faction Order. The Eligible Faction with the leftmost 
symbol in its color (skipping any Ineligible Factions) is the 1st 
Eligible to execute an Operation or Event or to Pass. The next 
leftmost is the 2nd Eligible. 
Faction 
Order
NOTE: The gray 2 symbol and “2nd: Ops” on some cards affect 
Non-player choices (8.1)—ignore them unless using Non-players.
2.3.3 Passing. If a 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction opts to Pass, it 
receives +1 Resources (or +3 Resources if Government) and 
remains Eligible for the next card. The next leftmost Eligible 
Faction then replaces the Passing Faction as the new 1st or 2nd 
Eligible Faction and receives the same options to execute or Pass. 
If the last (rightmost) Eligible Faction Passes, adjust cylinders 
(2.3.7) and play the next card.
2.3.4 Options for Eligible Factions. 
FIRST ELIGIBLE: If the 1st Eligible Faction does not Pass 
(2.3.3), it may execute either:
•	 An Operation (3.0)—with or without a Special Activity (4.0)—or
•	 The Event shown on the card.
OPTIONS FOR 2ND ELIGIBLE: If the 2nd Eligible Faction 
does not Pass (2.3.3), it also may execute an Operation and pos­
sibly the Event, but its options depend on what the 1st Eligible 
Faction executed:
•	 Op Only: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an Operation, the 
2nd Eligible Faction may execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5).
•	 Op & Special Activity: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an 
Operation with a Special Activity, the 2nd Eligible Faction 
may execute either a Limited Operation or the Event. (see also 
Final Event Card, 2.3.9).
•	 Event: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event, the 2nd 
Eligible Faction may execute an Operation, with a Special 
Activity if desired.
NOTE: For ease of reference, these options are illustrated on the 
Sequence of Play aid sheet and on the game board.
2.3.5 Limited Operation. A Limited Operation (LimOp) is a 
player Operation in just 1 space, with no Special Activity. If the 
Limited Operation is a Patrol (3.2.2), Sweep (3.2.3), or March 
(3.3.2), it can involve pieces from multiple spaces but only 1 des­
tination space. A Limited Operation counts as an Operation. See 
also Final Event Card (2.3.9) and Non-player Operations (8.1).
2.3.6 Ship. Whenever a 1st or 2nd Eligible player Faction pays 
Resources to execute an Operation (including a Limited Oper­
ation, 2.3.5) but executes no Special Activity, it may remove a 
Shipment that it owns (4.5.3) to immediately execute an addition­
al, free, Limited Operation of any type. Alternatively, a different 
Faction may remove its own Shipment to enable the 1st or 2nd 
Eligible Faction to execute such a free Operation. A Faction may 
only benefit from 1 such Shipment per card. 

EXAMPLE: Cartels is 1st Eligible and executes a March, removes 
a Shipment, then executes a Rally in 1 space at no Resource cost.
DESIGN NOTE: The added Op reflects proceeds from a major 
drug deal greasing the skids.
2.3.7 Adjust Eligibility. After the 1st and 2nd Eligible Factions 
complete all execution of Operations, Special Activities, and 
Events (or after all Eligible Factions instead have Passed), adjust 
cylinders on the Sequence of Play Track as follows:
•	 Move the cylinder to the “Eligible” box if the Faction did not 
execute an Operation or Event (and not rendered Ineligible by 
an Event).
•	 Move the cylinder to the “Ineligible” box if the Faction 
executed an Operation (including a Limited Operation) or 
Event (unless otherwise specified by the Event; see also Free 
Operations, 3.1.2.).
2.3.8 Next Card. After adjusting Eligibility, move the draw 
deck’s top card onto the played card pile face-up and reveal the 
draw deck’s next card. Play the card on the played card pile, 
proceeding with the appropriate sequence.
2.3.9 Final Event Card. On the last Event card before the final 
Propaganda Card (2.4.1), any player Operations must be Limited 
(2.3.5, no Special Activities) and may not include Sweep (3.2.3) 
or March (3.3.2).
2.4 Propaganda Card
If playing a Propaganda Card, conduct a Propaganda Round (6.0).
2.4.1 Final Propaganda. If the 4th Propaganda card’s Round 
is completed without a victory (6.1), the game ends: determine 
victory by 7.3. 
Short Game Option: Agree at set up that the 3rd Propaganda 
card’s Round will be the final round.
PLAY NOTE: Set aside Propaganda cards to show how many 
have gone by. Each series of Event cards up to a Propaganda 
Round is called a “Campaign”.
3.0 OPERATIONS
3.1 Operations in General
The Faction executing an Operation (Op) chooses 1 of the 4 Op­
erations listed on its Faction aid sheet and, if applicable, selects 
the map spaces to be involved. The Faction usually pays a cost 
in Resources (not Aid, 1.7), often per space selected; it must 
have enough Resources to pay for the Operation, including in 
each selected space. Select a given space only once for a given 
Operation. 
The executing Faction chooses the order of the spaces in which 
the Operation is resolved, the enemy Factions or pieces to be 
affected (targeted), and the friendly pieces to be placed or re­
placed. A single Operation may target one or more Factions and 
ignore others. Once targeted, a Faction’s pieces are affected to 
the maximum extent possible (1.4.1).
NOTE: Players pay for Operations space by space as they go, 
enabling Insurgents at 0 Resources to Extort, Kidnap, or Process 
to add Resources and then pay for additional Operations spaces. 
(See 4.1 and its EXAMPLE).
3.1.1 Pawns. Players may mark spaces selected for Operations 
(3.0) with white pawns and Special Activities (4.0) with black 
pawns. (The pawns are for convenience, not a limit on the number 
of spaces that may be selected.)
3.1.2 Free Operations. Certain Events (5.5), phases (6.4.5), or 
Shipping drugs (2.3.6) grant free Operations or Special Activities: 
they cost no Resources and, if executed by a Faction other than 
the one playing an Event, could leave it Eligible (2.3.7). Other 
requirements and procedures still apply unless trumped by Event 
text (5.1.1, 5.5.).
3.2 COIN Operations
The Government chooses from Train, Patrol, Sweep, and 
Assault Operations. Note: The Government may never place or 
move its pieces into FARC Zones; see 6.4.4. 
3.2.1 Train. Training Operations augment Government forces 
and possibly build Support (1.6). Select any Departments or 
Cities and pay 3 Resources per selected space.
PROCEDURE: First, in each selected Department with a Gov­
ernment Base AND in each selected City, place up to 6 cubes 
(any combination of Available Troops and Police). Then, in up 
to 1 selected space, either: 
•	 Replace any 3 cubes with 1 Government Base (within 
stacking,1.4.2), OR 
•	 Conduct Civic Action (6.4.1) to build Support. As during the 
Support Phase, the Government must have Troops, Police, and 
Control (a majority of forces, 1.8) in the space and must pay 
added Resources per 6.4.1 (even if Training was free).
3.2.2 Patrol. Patrol Operations protect LoCs by moving Troops 
or Police onto them and finding and removing Guerrillas there. 
Pay 3 Resources total (not per space). If a Limited Operation 
(2.3.5), all moving cubes must end on a single destination space. 
PROCEDURE: Move any number of cubes from any spaces. 
Each cube may move into any adjacent LoC or City (1.3.6) 
and may keep entering adjacent LoCs or Cities until the player 
chooses to stop moving it or it enters a space containing 1 or more 
Guerrillas. Then, in each LoC (even if a LimOp, and whether or 
not a cube just moved there), Activate 1 Guerrilla for each cube 
there. Then, if desired, conduct an Assault (3.2.4) in 1 LoC at 
no added cost. If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), the Assault must 
be in the destination LoC.
3.2.3 Sweep. Sweep Operations move Troops (typically, into 
contested areas) and locate enemy Guerrillas. Select any Cities 
or Departments as destinations (not FARC Zones, 6.4.4). Pay 3 
Resources per space selected. Sweep is not allowed on the final 
Event card (2.3.9). 
PROCEDURE: First, simultaneously move any adjacent Troops 
desired into selected spaces. In addition, Troops may first move 

onto adjacent LoCs (1.3.6) that are free of Guerrillas and then 
into adjacent spaces. (Any Troops that move must reach spaces 
paid for as destinations.) 
•	 Then, in selected spaces other than Forest, Activate 1 Guerrilla 
(1.4.3) for each cube there (Police plus Troops, whether they 
just moved or were already there). 
•	 In Forest spaces, Activate only 1 Guerrilla for every 2 cubes 
(round odd cubes down). 
NOTE: Sweeps do not have to both move Troops and Activate 
Guerrillas; they may move where no Guerrillas and may simply 
Activate Guerrillas in place.
EXAMPLE: The Government selects Cesar-La Guajira Depart­
ment for a Sweep. There are no Guerrillas on any LoCs. Troops 
could move from Cúcuta, Bucaramanga, and Sincelejo to the 
LoCs south of Baranquilla and from there into Cesar. Troops 
already in Baranquilla or any of the 3 Departments or 4 LoCs 
adjacent to Cesar also could enter Cesar. 
3.2.4 Assault. Assault Operations eliminate Insurgent forces. 
Select any spaces and pay 3 Resources per space selected. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, remove 1 Active Guerrilla 
(1.4.3) for each Troops cube there. Once a targeted Faction has 
no Guerrillas in the space, remove its Bases instead. 
•	 In a City or LoC, also remove 1 enemy piece for each Police 
cube there. 
•	 In Mountain, instead remove only 1 piece for every 2 Troops 
(rounded down). 
DESIGN NOTE: Guerrillas are less militarily capable than 
Government forces but enjoy an information advantage in that 
Government Operations generally must first Sweep to Activate 
(locate) them before Assaulting them. 
NOTE: The Faction aid sheets use the phrase “Bases last” to 
remind that an Operation cannot remove an enemy Base as long 
as Guerrillas (Active or Underground), Troops, or Police of the 
same Faction remain in the same space. Also, all of a Faction’s 
Guerrillas in a space may be Underground, preventing further 
removal via Assault of its pieces (including Bases) until the 
Guerrillas are Activated. 
3.2.5 Drug Bust. For each Shipment (4.5.3) removed by Assault, 
add +6 to Aid (to a maximum of 29).
3.3 Insurgent Operations
Insurgent Factions (FARC, AUC, and Car­
tels) choose from Rally, March, Attack, and 
Terror Operations.
Note that, on the Faction aid sheets under “Insurgent Operations”, 
the terms “Guerrillas” and “Bases” mean those of the executing 
Faction (friendly), unless otherwise specified.
3.3.1 Rally. Rally Operations augment or recover friendly 
forces. Select any Departments or Cities. Pay 1 Resource per 
space selected. 
•	 FARC may only select Neutral or Opposition spaces, not those 
with Support (1.6).
•	 AUC may only select Neutral or Support spaces, not those 
with Opposition. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, the executing Faction 
places 1 of its Available Guerrillas or replaces 2 of its Guerrillas 
with 1 of its Bases, within stacking (1.4.2). If the space already 
has at least 1 of that Faction’s Bases, the Faction may instead 
either: 
•	 Place a number of its Available Guerrillas up to the number 
of its Bases there plus the space’s Population value (1.3.2-.3) 
OR 
•	 Move any of its Guerrillas from any spaces on the map to 
there and flip all its Guerrillas there Underground (whether 
they moved or not) (1.4.3). 
3.3.2 March. March Operations move friendly Guerrillas. Se­
lect any spaces as the origins of the moving Guerrillas. Pay 1 
Resource per City or Department that Guerrillas move into (0 
Resources to move onto LoCs). If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), 
all moving Guerrillas must end in a single destination space. 
Players may not March on the final Event card (2.3.9).
PROCEDURE: The executing Faction moves any of its Guerril­
las desired into adjacent spaces (1.3.6). No Guerrilla moves more 
than once. Guerrillas moving from 1 space to another move as a 
single group. Set Guerrillas of a moving group to Active (1.4.3) if: 
•	 The destination space is a LoC or is a City or Department with 
Support (1.6)—or, for AUC March, Support or Opposition—
AND
•	 The moving group’s number of Guerrillas plus the number 
of cubes in the destination space exceeds 3. For AUC March, 
count FARC Guerrillas as cubes. 
EXAMPLE: A group of 2 Underground FARC Guerrillas March 
from Meta East to Santander-Boyacá, which has Passive Sup­
port and where there are 1 Police and 1 Troops cubes. Because 
the destination is a Department with Support and the total of 4 
cubes and moving Guerrillas involved exceeds 3, the 2 moving 
Guerrillas flip to Active.
NOTE: March often Activates Guerrillas, but moves by Event 
(5.0) do so only if specified.

3.3.3 Attack. Attack Operations seek to eliminate enemy forc­
es; particularly successful attacks augment friendly Guerrillas 
(by capturing enemy weapons, equipment, rations, recruits, or 
drugs). Select any spaces where the executing Faction has at 
least 1 Guerrilla and 1 enemy piece; pay 1 Resource per space.
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) all the 
executing Faction’s Guerrillas and then roll a die: if the roll is less 
than or equal to the number of the executing Faction’s Guerrillas 
there (whether or not they began Active), remove up to 2 enemy 
pieces (executing Faction’s choice; may include Underground 
Guerrillas). The 2 pieces may belong to different Factions. A 
targeted Faction’s Bases cannot be removed before all its cubes 
or Guerrillas in the space.
CAPTURED GOODS: If the roll was a “1”, place 1 of the exe­
cuting Faction’s Available Guerrillas (1.4.1) there. If a Shipment 
(4.5.3) was removed, place it in the space with a Guerrilla of the 
executing Faction.
3.3.4 Terror. Terror Operations in Depart­
ments or Cities neutralize (or, for FARC, 
build) Support or Opposition (1.6) and 
place Terror markers that hinder future 
efforts to influence it. On LoCs, they place Sabotage markers 
that block Government Resource earnings (6.3.1). AUC Terror 
harms Aid to the Government. Select any spaces where the ex­
ecuting Faction has at least 1 Underground Guerrilla; pay 1 
Resource per City or Department (0 for LoCs).
PROCEDURE: Activate 1 friendly Underground Guerrilla in 
each selected space. 
•	 If the space is a Department or City, place a Terror marker and 
shift any Support or Opposition 1 level toward Neutral (remove 
Passive or shift Active to Passive and adjust Total Support or 
Opposition, 1.6) OR, if FARC, toward Active Opposition. 
•	 If the space is a LoC without a Sabotage marker, place a 
Sabotage marker.
•	 Do not place a Terror/Sabotage marker if all are already on 
the map. (There are 40.) 
AID CUT: If AUC is executing the Terror (including via Event, 
5.0), drop Aid by –3 if the Terror occurred in a single space or 
by –5 if in 2 or more spaces, to a minimum of 0 (1.7). Note: Aid 
at 0 does not stop AUC Terror. 
4.0 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
4.1 Special Activities in General 
When a Faction per the Event Card sequence of play (2.3) exe­
cutes an Operation in at least 1 space (3.0), it may also execute 
1 type of its Special Activities (Exception: Limited Operations, 
2.3.5). Some Events grant free Special Activities (3.1.2).
•	 As with Operations, the executing Faction selects spaces, 
Factions, or pieces affected and the order of actions. A Faction 
may execute its Special Activity at any one time immediately 
before, during, or immediately after the execution of its Op­
eration. 
EXAMPLE: FARC with 0 Resources Extorts or Kidnaps enough 
to pay for the necessary accompanying Operations thereafter 
(4.1.1). 
PLAY NOTE: If the 1st Eligible Faction uses a Special Activity, 
the 2nd Eligible will have the option of executing the card’s 
Event (2.3.4). 
4.1.1. Accompanying Operations. Some Special Activities 
specify that they may only accompany certain types of Opera­
tions (3.0). Certain Special Activities may take place only in the 
locations of their Accompanying Operations. If not otherwise 
specified, Special Activities may accompany any Operations and 
take place in any otherwise valid spaces. 
4.2 Government Special Activities
The Government may choose from Air Lift, Air Strike, 
or Eradicate Special Activities.
4.2.1 Air Lift. Air Lift moves Troops, especially to mass them 
quickly for an Operation. 
PROCEDURE: Move up to 3 Troops from 1 space to another 
(not FARC Zone, 6.4.4).
4.2.2 Air Strike. An Air Strike destroys an exposed Insurgent 
unit. It may only accompany a Patrol, Sweep, or Assault (3.2.2-.4) 
and take place in a single Department or LoC (not City).
PROCEDURE: Remove 1 Active Guerrilla or, if the targeted 
Faction has no Guerrillas in the space, 1 of its Bases.
4.2.3 Eradicate. Eradication destroys rural Cartels Bases and 
earns Aid but at a cost of increasing local sympathy for FARC. 
It may take place in any 1 Department with Cartels pieces (even 
Cartels Guerrillas without Bases).
PROCEDURE: Boost Aid by +4, to a maximum of 29 (1.7). 
Remove all Cartels Bases in the selected space (regardless of 
Guerrillas there). Then:
•	 Shift that or an adjacent Department 1 level toward Active 
Opposition (1.6.1), if possible.
•	 Or, if not possible (because all are already at Active Opposition 
or have 0 Population), instead place 1 available FARC Guerrilla 
in that Department.
DESIGN NOTE: Farmers of coca and other crops harmed tend 
to resent Government spraying.
4.3 FARC Special Activities
FARC may choose from Ambush, Extort, or Kidnap 
4.3.1 Extort. Extortion enables FARC to gain Resources from 
regions they dominate. FARC may simultaneously Extort in any 
spaces (including LoCs) where FARC forces include at least 1 
Underground Guerrilla and FARC has Control (its forces out­
number all enemies, 1.8). 
PROCEDURE: For each selected space, Activate 1 Underground 
FARC Guerrilla there (1.4.3) and add +1 to FARC Resources 
(1.7).

4.3.2 Ambush. An Ambush enables FARC to ensure the complete 
success of an Attack in 1 space. It must take place in a space 
selected for Attack (3.3.3, not yet resolved) and that has at least 
1 Underground FARC Guerrilla (1.4.3).
PROCEDURE: Instead of the usual Attack procedure (3.3.3), 
the Attack in that space Activates 1 Underground Guerrilla only 
and automatically succeeds (do not roll; remove the 2 enemy 
pieces normally). Place an Available FARC Guerrilla in the space 
(Underground, 1.4.3) as if a “1” had been rolled.
4.3.3 Kidnap. Kidnapping takes variable amounts of Resources 
(1.7) from the Government or the Cartels or a Shipment (4.5.3) 
from the Cartels, at a small risk of adding to AUC growth. It may 
take place in up to 3 spaces that:
•	 Were or will be selected for Terror (3.3.4) this Operation, AND
•	 Are City, LoC, or have a Cartels Base, AND 
•	 Have more FARC Guerrillas than Police.
PROCEDURE: Target either the Government if the space is a 
City or LoC, or the Cartels if the space has 1 or 2 Cartels Bases. 
Roll a die for each space and transfer to FARC from the targeted 
Faction a number of Resources equal to the die roll. Whenever a 
“6” is rolled, AUC places 1 Available piece in that space (within 
stacking, 1.4.2). If a targeted Faction runs out of Resources, no 
more is transferred.
DRUG RANSOM: If targeting the Cartels where they hold a 
Shipment (4.5.3), instead of rolling, place the Shipment with a 
FARC Guerrilla there.
DESIGN NOTE: This Special Activity represents the potentially 
lucrative kidnapping of family members of drug lords, politicians, 
and other wealthy. Routine kidnapping is represented in the game 
within Terror and Extort.
4.4 AUC Special Activities
AUC may choose from Extort, Ambush, or Assassinate 
4.4.1 Extort & Ambush. AUC Extorts and Ambushes the same 
as FARC (4.3.1-2) but using AUC instead of FARC forces.
4.4.2 Assassinate. Assassination efficiently eliminates enemy 
units—even protected Bases. It may occur in any of up to 3 
spaces selected for AUC Terror (3.3.4) this Operation in which 
AUC Guerrillas outnumber Police.
PROCEDURE: In each such space, remove any 1 enemy piece.
COMMANDEER: If an Assassination forces the removal of a 
Shipment (4.5.3) place it with an AUC Guerrilla in the space.
4.5 Cartels Special Activities
The Cartels may choose from Cultivate, Process, or Bribe 
4.5.1 Cultivate. Cultivation relocates trafficking activity or 
propagates a new growing area. It may only accompany a Rally 
or March Operation (3.3.1-.2). The destination is 1 Department 
or City with Population greater than 0 and with more Cartels 
Guerrillas than Police.
PROCEDURE: Relocate 1 Cartels Base from any space to the 
selected space (within stacking, 1.4.2). Or, if the space is a De­
partment selected for a Rally Operation (whether or not it just 
received a Guerrilla), if desired instead place 1 Cartels Base there. 
DESIGN NOTE: Cultivation represents the ability of drug syn­
dicates quickly and clandestinely to arrange purchase from new 
growers and move processing labs and delivery routes.
4.5.2 Process. Processing prepares major drug Shipments or 
exchanges Bases for Resources. It may only accompany a Rally 
or March Operation (3.3.1-.2) and may occur in any spaces with 
at least 1 Cartels Base. 
PROCEDURE: Remove any Cartels Bases desired and add +3 
Cartels Resources for each Base removed. Alternatively, place a 
total of 1 or 2 available Shipments (4.5.3) under any Guerrillas 
in spaces with Cartels Bases.
4.5.3 Shipment Markers. The 4 Shipment markers 
represent major processed drug caches awaiting 
delivery and are a limit on play. On the map, they 
are always placed beneath a Guerrilla and move 
with it. That Guerrilla’s Faction owns the Shipment. A Guerrilla 
may hold several Shipments. The owner may transfer the Ship­
ment to another Guerrilla in the same space at any time (even as 
the Guerrilla is removed or replaced and including to another 
Faction’s Guerrilla). Shipments are only removed via Event (5.0) 
or as follows:
•	 If a Guerrilla holding a Shipment is removed, the owner must 
immed­iately transfer the Shipment to another Guerrilla if possible, 
otherwise remove it. 
•	 Players after executing Operations without Special Activities 
may remove a Shipment they own for a free, extra Limited 
Operation (2.3.6).
•	 During the Resource Phase, all Shipments are removed and 
provide the owner either a Base or +6 Resources (6.3.3).
4.5.4 Bribe. Bribes neutralize other Factions’ units or expose or 
hide Guerrillas but cost Resources (1.7). They may occur in any 
of up to 3 spaces, and may accompany any Cartels Operation.
PROCEDURE: For each space, reduce Cartels Resources –3 and 
remove up to 2 cubes there, remove or flip up to 2 Guerrillas 
there, or remove a Base there. NOTE: Bribe is the only Special 
Activity with a Resource cost. 
CONTRABAND: The Cartels player may transfer any Shipments 
(4.5.3) removed by Bribe to any Guerrilla in the space.

5.0 EVENTS
Each Event bears a title, italicized flavor text, and Event text. 
Flavor text provides historical interest and has no effect on play. 
Cards with text updated for this edition are marked “2nd Ed”.
5.1 Executing Events
When a Faction executes an Event, it carries out the Event text 
literally (sometimes involving actions or decisions by other 
Factions). Unless otherwise specified, the executing Faction 
makes all selections involved in implementing the text, such 
as which pieces are affected. EXAMPLE: A Faction executing 
an Event that forces another Faction to Attack could choose 
the Attacking Faction; the Attacking Faction would make any 
selections allowed within the Event’s required Attack (per 3.1). 
Some Events with lasting effects have markers as aids to play. 
(For Events that place FARC Zones, see 6.4.4.)
5.1.1 Where Event text contradicts rules, the Event takes prece­
dence. EXAMPLE: If the Event says any Guerrilla in a partic­
ular space executes Terror or Ambush, even an already Active 
Guerrilla there can do so. However: 
•	 Events never place pieces that are not available (1.4.1); they 
remove rather than replace if the replacement is not available. 
•	 Events may not violate stacking (1.4.2, including no 
Government forces into FARC Zones, 6.4.4).
•	 Events may not raise Aid beyond 29 or a Faction’s Resources 
beyond 99 (1.7).
•	 Events never allow a Faction to execute a type of Operation 
or Special Activity available only to other Factions (3.0, 4.0).
5.1.2 If two Events contradict, the currently played Event takes 
precedence.
EXAMPLE: “Former Military” could result in Assault against 
FARC even if FARC had just played “Senado & Cámara”.
5.1.3 If not all of an executed Event’s text can be carried out, 
implement that which can.
5.2 Dual Use
Many Events have both unshaded and shaded Event text. The 
executing Faction may select either the unshaded or shaded text 
to carry out (not both). While the unshaded text often favors the 
Government, a player may select either text option regardless 
of Faction.
DESIGN NOTE: Dual-use events represent opposed effects of 
the same cause, forks in the historical road, or instances subject 
to alternative historical interpretation.
5.3 Govt Capabilities 
Dual-use Events marked “GOVT CAPA­
BILITIES” have lasting effects that either 
help or hurt the Government. When exe­
cuting such an Event, place the correspond­
ing marker on the appropriate side in the Govt Capabilities box. 
The Event’s effects last for the rest of the game.
5.4 Insurgent Momentum
Dual-use shaded Event text marked “INSURGENT MOMEN­
TUM” has lasting effects that hurt the Government. When ex­
ecuting such shaded text, place the card in one of the Insurgent 
Momentum holding boxes. The effects last until the next Pro­
paganda round’s Reset phase (6.6), when the card is discarded. 
Note: The 2 holding boxes are intended for convenience and 
not a limit on the number of Insurgent Momentum Events that 
can be in play.
5.5 Free Operations
Some Events allow the Executing or another Faction an im­
mediate Operation or Special Activity that interrupts the usual 
sequence of play and typically is free: it bears no Resource cost 
and does not affect Eligibility (3.1.2, 2.3.1), though other require­
ments remain unless trumped by Event text (5.1.1). 
EXAMPLE: Free Terror must Activate an Underground Guerrilla 
per 3.3.4, but Event text specifying Terror by “any Guerrilla” 
could use an already Active Guerrilla.
6.0 PROPAGANDA ROUNDS
Conduct a Propaganda Round in the sequence of phases below 
as each Propaganda Card is played. The Sequence of Play sheet 
and board also list this sequence. 
EXCEPTION: Never conduct more than 1 Propaganda Round 
in a row (without at least 1 Event card in between)—instead, 
additional Propaganda cards are played without a Propaganda 
Round. If such an additional Propaganda card is final (2.4.1), 
end the game and determine victory (7.3). 
6.1 Victory Phase
If any Faction has met its Victory condition, the game ends (ex­
ceptions: Non-player option [1.5]; 1-player [8.8]). See Victory 
(7.0) to determine winner and rank order. Otherwise, continue 
with the Propaganda Round. After completing the final Propa­
ganda card’s Round (2.4.1), determine victory per 7.3.
 
Card Number
Faction Order
Title
Italicized Flavor Text
Event Text
Lasting Effects Indicator
Shaded Text
(see Dual Use 5.2)

6.2 Sabotage Phase
 
Sabotage (3.3.4) each unSabotaged LoC 
where total Guerrillas exceed cubes or 
for which an adjacent City is under 
FARC Control. 
6.3 Resources Phase
Add to Factions’ Resources per the following sequence, to a 
maximum of 99 (1.7).
6.3.1 Government Earnings. Add the total Economic value 
(1.3.4) of all LoCs that have no Sabotage markers (30 minus the 
Econ of Sabotaged LoCs) plus Aid. Exception: If El Presidente 
(6.4.3) is Samper, do not add Aid.
6.3.2 Insurgent Earnings. Add to:
•	 FARC and AUC: The number of its Bases.
•	 Cartels: Three times its Bases.
6.3.3 Drug Profits. FARC, then AUC, then Cartels remove 
any Shipments (5.2.2) that they own, selecting to receive for 
each either an available Base at the Shipment’s location (within 
stacking, 1.4.2) or +6 Resources.
6.4 Support Phase
The Government then FARC may spend Resources to affect 
popular Support and Opposition (1.6), then an Election is held.
6.4.1 Civic Action. Government may spend any number of 
Resources to build Support in Govt-Controlled Cities or De­
partments (1.8) that have both Troops and Police. Every 3 
Resources spent removes 1 Terror marker or—once no Terror 
is in a space—shifts it 1 level toward Active Support. (Adjust 
Total Support, 1.6.3.)
DESIGN NOTE: Troops and Police together provide the security 
needed to make gains in popular support. See also Training, 3.2.1.
6.4.2 Agitation. FARC similarly may spend Resources to encour­
age Opposition in FARC-Controlled Cities or Departments (1.8). 
Every 1 Resource spent removes 1 Terror marker or—once no 
Terror is in a space—shifts it 1 level toward Active Opposition. 
(Adjust Opposition+Bases, 1.6.3.) (1-player: see 8.7.5.)
6.4.3 Election. A track called El Presidente records who cur­
rently is the President of Colombia and notes his effects. If El 
Presidente is Samper or Pastrana and Total Support is 60 or less, 
advance the El Presidente marker 1 box rightward and carry out 
the noted effect.
•	 If Samper, the Government will not collect Resources from 
Aid during Propaganda Rounds (6.3.1; it may still do so via 
Events).
•	 If Pastrana, the Government must immediately place 1 FARC 
Zone (below).
•	 If Uribe, immediately remove all FARC Zones. (Events may 
still place them.)
6.4.4 FARC Zones. Whenever Events or 
the El Presidente track (6.4.3) specify that 
a FARC Zone is to be placed, the Gov­
ernment selects from among Departments with the most FARC 
pieces that is not already a FARC Zone to receive a FARC Zone 
marker. 
•	 The Government must immediately Redeploy any cubes (6.5; 
judge Control, 6.2, at the moment that a FARC Zone is placed) 
and remove any of its Bases there. 
•	 Government Forces may not enter or be placed into a FARC 
Zone Department (1.4.2), even by Event (5.1.1). 
EXAMPLE: The “Zona de Convivencia” Event places a FARC 
Zone into the Mountain Department with the most FARC pieces. 
The Government player chooses among any Mountain spaces 
tied for most FARC pieces.
PLAY NOTE: FARC Zones have no effect on Air Strikes (4.2.2), 
Eradication (4.2.3), or the movement or placement of Insurgent 
forces.
6.4.5 Elite Backing. AUC now may free Rally (3.3.1) in 1 space 
with neither Opposition, nor Govt Control, nor FARC Control 
(1.8). 
6.5 Redeploy Phase
The Government relocates its forces as described below. Control 
does not change until all Redeployment is complete.
6.5.1 The Government must move any Troops on LoCs or in 
Departments without Government Bases to Govt-Controlled 
spaces (1.8) that either are Cities or have Government Bases (if 
no such spaces, then to Bogotá).
6.5.2 The Government may move any other Troops to such 
Govt-Controlled Cities or Bases. 
6.5.3 The Government may move any Police to any LoCs or 
Govt-Controlled spaces. 
6.5.4 Once all Redeployment is finished, Control of all Cities 
and Departments adjusts per 1.8.
DESIGN AND PLAY NOTE: While Troops are the Government’s 
main means of attacking Insurgents in the countryside, Police 
are its main means of maintaining presence over time. 
6.6 Reset Phase
Prepare for the next card as follows:
•	 Mark all Factions Eligible (2.3.1). 
•	 Remove all Terror and Sabotage markers. 
•	 Place any cards in the Insurgent Momentum holding boxes 
onto the played cards—their Events’ effects no longer apply 
(5.4). 
•	 Flip all Guerrillas to Underground (1.4.3). 
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck and reveal the draw 
deck’s new top card (2.3.8). 
PLAY NOTE: In the final Round of the game, players should 
conduct as much Civic Action and Agitation as possible (6.4.1-2) 
and can skip the Redeploy and Reset phases (6.5-6).

7.0 VICTORY 
Each Faction has unique victory conditions, covered below and 
on the Faction aid sheets.
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
If any Non-player Faction (8.0) passes a victory check (7.2), all 
players lose equally. Otherwise, whenever any player does so or 
if none does by game end, the Faction that reached the highest 
victory margin (7.3) comes in 1st place, 2nd-highest comes in 
2nd place, and so on. Ties go to Non-players, then Cartels, then 
AUC, then FARC. (See also 1-player victory, 8.8.)
7.2 During Propaganda Rounds
Check victory at the start of each Propaganda Round (6.1). 
Victory conditions are:
•	 Government: Total Support exceeds 60.
•	 FARC: Total Opposition plus the number of FARC Bases 
exceeds 25.
•	 AUC: AUC has more Bases than FARC. 
•	 Cartels: Cartels have more than 10 Bases and have Resources 
above 40. 
7.3 After Final Propaganda 
If the final Propaganda Round (2.4.1) is completed without a 
victory check win (7.2), the Faction with the highest victory 
margin wins. A Victory Margin is the amount a Faction is beyond 
or short of its victory condition set forth in 7.2.
NOTE: The victory margin will be positive if the Faction has 
reached its goal, negative or zero if it has not. See the Playbook’s 
tutorial for a full example of victory determination.
•	 Government: Total Support – 60. 
•	 FARC: Total Opposition + FARC Bases – 25. 
•	 AUC: AUC Bases – FARC Bases.
•	 Cartels: Take the lower of the following: Cartels Bases – 10, 
or Cartels Resources – 40.
STOP!
You have read all rules needed for 4 players or the no Non-
Player option (1.5, recommended if playing the first time).
8.0 NON-PLAYER FACTIONS
This section modifies the above rules with priorities that govern 
actions by any Factions beyond those represented by a player, as 
an option to substitute for players when fewer than four players 
are available, including for solitaire (1.5). NOTE: If players 
among themselves are running the Government and the three 
Insurgent Factions, this entire section is not needed! “Non-play­
ers” can substitute for any of the four player Factions, but the 
following combinations are recommended:
•	 With three players, use either the Cartels or AUC Non-player 
and play the other three Factions.
•	 With two players, play Government and FARC and use the 
Cartels and AUC Non-players.
•	 With one player, play Government or FARC and use the re­
maining three Non-players.
The Playbook features an extensive 1-player Example of Play 
illustrating these rules. 
DESIGN NOTE: Non-player Factions may not act as would 
a player but rather create a dynamic setting with which the 
player(s) must contend. Like players, they sometimes will help, 
sometimes attack, one another.
8.1 Non-Player Sequence of Play
The Sequence of Play aid sheet and Non-player flowcharts sum­
marize the following rules.
•	 Non-player Government: Non-player Government uses its 
flowchart (8.8) and Event Instructions (8.4.4) to determine 
whether or not it plays an Event for which it is eligible.
2nd Eligible 
Insurgent: 
choose Ops
•	 Non-player Insurgents: 1st Eligible Non-player Insurgent 
Factions whose symbol is leftmost on the Event’s card execute 
the Event (2.3), if not leftmost, then Operations. 2nd Eligible 
Non-player Insurgent Factions choose the Event when given 
an option, unless the Event’s card has a gray 
 symbol, in 
which case, Operations.
Exception—Insurgent Discord: 
In a 2-player game (only) where Government is a player Faction, 
Government chooses between an Event with effect or Operation 
for any 2nd Eligible Non-player Faction with at least 1 Resource. 
In any game where Government is a Non-player, Non-player 
Insurgents only execute Events that meet at least one of the 
following restrictions:
a.	The executing Faction places or moves pieces, gains Resources, 
or gets free Operations or Special Activities.
b.	If AUC, the Event shifts spaces towards Active Support or 
causes Terror in Opposition spaces.
c.	If FARC, the Event shifts spaces towards Active Opposition 
or causes Terror in Support spaces.
d.	The Event would harm a player Faction by removing its pieces 
or Resources, preventing it from executing specific Operations 
or Special Activities, making it Ineligible, or—for player 
FARC—by shifting spaces towards Active Support. DESIGN 
NOTE: These restrictions prevent Insurgent Non-players from 
helping an Insurgent player too much against a Non-player 
Government.
•	 Ineffective Events. Regardless of the above, Non-player 
Factions only opt for Events that would have an effect 
(something happens, including Government Capabilities, 
5.3) and opt for Momentum Events (5.4) when the next card 
is “Propaganda” only if they would have an effect during 
the Propaganda Round (“Alfonso Cano” and “Mexican 
Traffickers”).

•	 Insufficient Resources. When a Non-player Insurgent is to 
execute Operations but has 0 Resources, it Passes instead 
(earning +1 Resource, 2.3.3). If a Non-player Faction hits 0 
Resources while executing an Operation, it Operates in no 
further spaces that card (it may execute a Special Activity). 
When Non-player Government is to execute an Operation but 
has too few Resources, it immediately (before executing any 
Special Activity) follows the “if none” arrows on its flowchart 
until either arriving at an Operation it can afford to execute or 
Passing (to earn +3 Resources, 2.3.3).
•	 Operations Not Limited. Whenever a Non-player Faction is 
to execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5), it instead executes a 
normal Operation and (typically) Special Activity. Final Event 
Card restrictions (2.3.9) do not apply to Non-players. 
•	 No Shipping. Non-player Factions may not receive Operations 
from Shipments (2.3.6). 
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: Non-player Cartels is 1st 
Eligible for “Narco-Subs”. There are no Cartels pieces in coastal 
spaces. Because the shaded text would have no effect, Cartels 
executes Operations and a Special Activity.
8.1.1 Operations, Special Activities, and Events. To execute 
a Non-player Faction’s Operations and Special Activities or a 
specific Event, see the Non-Player flow charts and the relevant 
rules below. 
GUIDELINES: Carry out whatever actions apply to the max­
imum extent (such as with the most pieces allowed and only 
as long as needed pieces are available). Normal requirements, 
Resource costs, and procedures still apply. 
EXAMPLE: Non-Player Terror requires Activating an Under­
ground Guerrilla and costs 1 Resource per City or Department, 
per 3.3.4.
OP NOT POSSIBLE: If none of a flowchart-designated Oper­
ation or Special Activity can be carried out, instead follow the 
arrow (or circle) marked “if none” on the flowchart and execute 
the next Operation or Special Activity indicated (even if the 
normal conditions for selecting that action were not met). If the 
“if none” instruction is to Pass, do so even if the Non-player has 
Resources left.
NOTE: Each “if none” arrow points directly to an Instructions 
box, bypassing decision diamonds; the diamonds’ conditions do 
not apply when following the “if none” arrows. Conditions listed 
in the Instructions boxes themselves still apply.
EXAMPLE: Cartels are to March but all their Guerrillas on 
the map are spread 1 per Base space; it Rallies and Cultivates 
instead, even with fewer than 10 pieces available.
8.1.2 Procedure Guidelines. Unless otherwise specified, once 
spaces involved are selected, Non-player Factions:
•	 Place friendly Bases before Guerrillas or cubes. Non-player 
Government alternates placing Police and Troops as far as 
able, beginning with the fewest in the space (Police if even). 
•	 Place Shipments with Underground Guerrillas before Active, 
and with Guerrillas with other Shipments if possible (4.5.3).
•	 Attempt to remove enemy Bases, then Police, Troops, 
Underground Guerrillas, and finally Active Guerrillas. Remove 
pieces to be replaced even if no pieces are available to replace 
them (1.4.1).
•	 If Insurgent, remove friendly Active before Underground 
Guerrillas. Transfer Shipments about to be removed (4.5.3) 
to their own then another Non-player’s Underground then 
Active Guerrillas (FARC, then AUC, then Cartels), if possible. 
Voluntarily transfer nothing else.
•	 If Government, alternate removing Troops and Police beginning 
with whichever most in the space, but keeping the last Police in 
each space as long as possible.
•	 Retain Shipments first to place Bases, then to gain +6 
Resources.
•	 March so as to move as many Underground Guerrillas as pos­
sible without flipping them to Active (3.3.2). Where Activation 
is unavoidable, move Active first. Within those priorities, move 
Shipments first.
MARCH EXAMPLE: A group of Active and Underground 
Non-player Guerrillas is to March into an otherwise empty space 
with Support. By the rule above, only 3 of the Guerrillas in the 
group would make the move, priority going to the Underground 
Guerrillas. 
PLAY NOTE: Players may transfer (1.5.1) to Non-player Fac­
tions normally, for example, Government to Non-player AUC.
8.1.3 Reading the Flowcharts. The Second Edition Non-Player 
flowcharts show priorities with circled numbers (e.g., ❶,❷,①,②) 
and colored letters (e.g., a , b) to indicate their order and nature: 
•	 Numbered priorities (e.g., ❶,①) are sequential priorities. 
Execute the instructions in each sequential priority to the 
maximum extent before moving to the next sequential priority 
(8.3). Some top-level sequential priorities (black circles; e.g., 
❶,❷) contain further sequential priorities (white circles; e.g., 
①,②) that are parts of and sequential steps to that top-level 
priority. 
•	 Lettered priorities (e.g., a , b) are nested priorities. Nested 
priorities act as tie breakers within the sequential priorities to 
which they are ordained. Each nested priority further narrows 
the thus-far selected set of spaces or targets. For readability, 
nested priorities have a shaded background. 
NOTE: So as to provide a quicker reference, the flowcharts 
abbreviate the rules below. Should you find a flowchart priority 
unclear, please refer also to the corresponding text here.
8.2 Random Cities and Departments
If several candidate Cities or Departments have equal priority for 
a Non-player Operation, Special Activity, or Event, select spaces 
using the Random Citie or Department table:
•	 Roll the red, yellow, and green dice and refer to the table: red 
indicates column, yellow indicates row of space trios, and 
green indicates the space within the trio.
•	 If the resulting space is not a candidate, move down the column 
until one is reached. Follow the arrows, moving from the 

bottom of one column to the top of the next and from Chocó 
to Cali (or just follow the gray arrows on the Random City or 
Department map). 
•	 If Panamá or Ecuador is a space (1.3.5), select it before the 
other space in the box.
•	 Carry out as much of the action as possible in the candidate 
reached, then roll again to select another, if needed.
PLAY NOTE: Use a die roll if the choice is among few spaces 
and all players agree.
8.3 Random LoCs 
To select a LoC, choose from candidates:
•	 With highest Econ, then
•	 Adjacent to a random City, then
•	 With an equal-chance die roll.
Sabotage only unSabotaged LoCs.
EXAMPLE: No 3-Econ LoCs are eligible but several 2-Econ 
LoCs are. The first random City next to a 2-Econ LoC is Bogotá. 
Designate the 3 adjacent LoCs with 2-Econ as 1-2, 3-4, and 5-6 
,respectively, and roll a die to select one. 
8.4 Non-Player Events
NOTE: If the Government is a player, Events will not always 
benefit the executing Non-player Faction, as Non-player Insur­
gents assist one another.
8.4.1 Dual Use. Non-player Insurgents execute the shaded text 
if the event is Dual Use (5.2); Non-player Government executes 
unshaded text.
8.4.2 Placement. Place or relocate as many pieces (per 8.1.2) as 
the Event, availability (1.4.1), and stacking (1.4.2) allow.
8.4.3 Where. Select spaces randomly (8.2-.3) unless otherwise 
specified by Event special instructions (8.4.4). For shift spaces, 
Non-player Insurgents select for the greatest change in Total 
Support and Opposition; Non-player Government selects for 
the greatest shift towards Active Support or the smallest shift 
towards Active Opposition.
8.4.4 Event Instructions. Whenever a Non-player Faction has 
the option to execute Event text, check for any special instruc­
tions for that Event:
•	 For all Non-player Insurgents (Cartels, AUC, or FARC), check 
the Non-player sheet for whatever Faction’s symbol is leftmost 
on the card.
•	 For Non-player Government, check the Non-player Govern­
ment foldout.
8.5 Non-Player Cartels Actions
NOTE: It is not necessary to master the rules below for 
specific Factions because they are summarized on the Non-player 
foldouts.
8.5.1 Rally. If Cartels have at least 10 pieces (Guerrillas plus 
Bases) available or if Cartels Rally could replace 2 Guerrillas 
with a Base, Rally in up to 3 of the following spaces:
•	 In any space with at least one Cartels Base and one cube where 
all Cartel Guerrillas are Active, flip the Cartel Guerrillas 
Underground.
•	 Then, in any others with at least 2 Cartels Guerrillas without 
Shipments and fewer than 2 Bases, replace 2 Guerrillas with a 
Base.
•	 Then, wherever Cartels have a Base and no Cartels Guerrillas, 
place Guerrillas (equal to Population plus Bases, 3.3.1) or—if 
no Guerrillas available—move up to 3 there from spaces 
without Cartels Bases and flip them Underground.
•	 Finally, Rally—placing Guerrillas if available—in 1 other 
Department as needed to then enable Cartels to Cultivate to 
place a new Base (Population greater than 0, fewer than 2 
Bases, and Cartels Guerrillas would outnumber Police, 4.5.1) 
if none of the above Rally spaces already allow that.
CULTIVATE: Then, where Population >0 and Cartels Guerrillas 
exceed Police (4.5.1):
•	 Cultivate to place a Base in a Department selected for Rally, 
if possible.
•	 If not, Cultivate to relocate a Cartels Base to a City or 
Department with none from a space with 2 Cartels Bases, if 
possible.
•	 If not, Cartels instead attempt to Process per below.
PROCESS: Then:
•	 Place 2 Shipments (4.5.2), each into a (random) space with a 
Cartels Guerrilla and Base (possibly resulting in the same space).
•	 If no such spaces exist, instead remove 1 Cartels Base (for +3 
Resources) from a (random) space with 2 Cartels Bases.
•	 If no such space exists, Cartels execute no Special Activity.
8.5.2 March. If Rally conditions (8.5.1) are not met but a Ship­
ment is available, instead March into a Department or City that 
has fewer than 2 Bases (of any Faction) and is adjacent to a space 
with 2 or more Cartels Guerrillas.
•	 March all adjacent Cartels Guerrillas but the last 1 in any space 
with a Cartels Base (and as limited by 8.1.2) into the destination.
PROCESS: Then Process per 8.5.1 above.
8.5.3 Terror. If neither Rally (8.5.1) nor March (8.5.2) conditions 
are met, instead execute Terror in up to 3 spaces with at least 1 
Population (and Underground Cartels Guerrillas, 3.3.4):
•	 If Government is a Non-player and FARC is a player, select 
Opposition, then Support, then Neutral spaces; otherwise select 
Support, then Opposition, then Neutral spaces (1.6).
BRIBE: Then, Bribe (4.5.4) in 3 spaces with Cartels and enemy 
pieces: first player then Non-player, within that Government, then 
FARC, then AUC. Remove pieces per 8.1.2. (Pay 3 Resources per 
space.) If no such spaces (or Cartels have less than 3 Resources), 
execute no Special Activity.

8.6 Non-Player AUC Actions
8.6.1 Rally. If AUC has at least 6 Guerrillas available or 
would place a Base with a Rally, Rally in up to 3 of the following 
Departments or Cities (without Opposition, 3.3.1):
•	 In any with at least one AUC Base and one cube where all 
AUC Guerrillas are Active, flip the Guerrillas Underground.
•	 Then, in any others with at least 3 AUC Guerrillas and fewer 
than 2 Bases, replace 2 Guerrillas with a Base.
•	 Then place Guerrillas in any others with FARC Bases (if any 
with- out Opposition); then with AUC Bases (Population plus 
Bases, 3.3.1); and finally in other Departments or Cities—if 
any AUC Bases are available, first where there are exactly 1 
or 2 AUC Guerrillas already.
EXTORT: Then Extort wherever possible (where AUC forces 
include an Underground Guerrilla and exceed enemy, 4.4.1). If 
no Extort possible, AUC executes no Special Activity.
ELITE BACKING: During the Support Phase, free Rally (6.4.5) 
in a space with no Govt Control or FARC Control (1.8). Place a 
Base if possible, otherwise Guerrillas per 8.6.1 above.
8.6.2 March. If Rally conditions (8.6.1) are not met and fewer 
than half of the spaces with a FARC Base have an AUC Guerrilla, 
instead March as follows:
•	 First into a (random) City or Department with with a FARC 
piece—a FARC Base if possible—and no AUC Guerrillas. 
Among such spaces, choose first one that would allow the 
moving Guerrillas to stay Underground. March with all 
adjacent AUC Guerrillas (as limited by 8.1.2), but leave 1 per 
space with an AUC Base or any FARC piece.
•	 Then March with the largest group of AUC Guerrillas yet to 
move, to a space closer to a FARC piece (a Base if possible), 
leaving 1 Guerrilla with an AUC Base or any FARC piece.
EXTORT: Then Extort per 8.6.1.
8.6.3 Attack. If neither Rally nor March (8.6.1-2) conditions 
are met and no space with a FARC Base has an Underground 
AUC Guerrilla, instead Attack in up to 3 spaces (with AUC 
Guerrillas, 3.3.3):
•	 Target enemy Guerrillas so as to take Shipments, then FARC, 
then Government.
•	 Attack where such targeting (to take a Shipment or strike FARC 
or Government) is possible and there is an Underground or at 
least 3 total AUC Guerrillas, selecting first those spaces with 
the most AUC Guerrillas. 
AMBUSH: Ambush (per 4.4.1, with an Underground AUC Guer­
rilla) in the Attack space with the fewest total AUC Guerrillas. 
If tied, chose first where a Shipment is targeted, then FARC, 
then Government.
•	 If none has an Underground AUC Guerrilla, AUC executes no 
Special Activity.
8.6.4 Terror. If neither Rally nor March (8.6.1-2) conditions are 
met and a space does have a FARC Base and an Underground 
AUC Guerrilla, execute Terror in up to 3 spaces (with Under­
ground AUC Guerrillas per 3.3.4):
•	 First, in 1 space with a FARC Base and fewer Police than AUC 
Guerrillas.
•	 Then, in 1 other City or Department with any FARC piece. 
If Government is a Non-player, only select a space without 
Support.
•	 Finally, in other Cities or Departments. If Non-player Govern­
ment, select a space without Support.
ASSASSINATE: Then Assassinate wherever Terror occurred and 
AUC Guerrillas outnumber Police (4.4.2). Remove Guerrillas to 
take Shipments (4.4.3), then remove FARC, then Government, 
then Cartels (all per 8.1.2).
•	 If all Terror spaces have too many Police or no enemy, AUC 
executes no Special Activity.
8.7 Non-Player FARC Actions 
8.7.1 Rally. If FARC has at least 9 Guerrillas available 
or could place a Base with a Rally, Rally in all the following 
Departments or Cities (without Support, 3.3.1): 
•	 First, in all such spaces with Active FARC Guerrillas, a FARC 
Base, and any cubes, flip the Guerrillas Underground.
•	 Then, in all others with at least 2 FARC Guerrillas without 
Shipments and fewer than 2 Bases, replace 2 Guerrillas with 
a Base.
•	 Then, in others with at least one FARC Base, place Guerrillas 
(Population plus Bases, 3.3.1). 
•	 Finally, in 1 other Department or City, place a Guerrilla, if pos­
sible where there are exactly 1 or 2 FARC Guerrillas already, 
otherwise randomly.
EXTORT: Then Extort (where FARC forces exceed all enemy, 
4.3.1):
•	 In each space with at least 2 Underground FARC Guerrillas, 
and
•	 On 1 LoC with an Underground FARC Guerrilla, lowest 
Economic value first.
•	 If no such spaces exist, FARC executes no Special Activity.
8.7.2 March. If Rally conditions (8.7.1) are not met and no 
Support space (1.6) nor LoC has either an Underground FARC 
Guerrilla or a total of at least 3 FARC pieces, instead March: 
•	 First—unless the next Propaganda card played will be final 
(2.4.1)—onto all unSabotaged LoCs (highest Economic value 
first, 8.3), until any 1 Guerrilla is on each adjacent LoC. (Cost 
is 0.)
•	 Then, into up to 3 spaces without FARC Control, each with at 
least 1 Population at Support or Neutral—first to spaces that 
allow moving Guerrillas to stay Underground.
•	 Finally, into 1 more space with at least 1 Population and ad­
jacent to a space with the most FARC Guerrillas who would 
move, per the guidelines below, but have not yet done so.
GUIDELINES: March with as many FARC Guerrillas as possi­
ble (per 8.1.2), but only from adjacent spaces that have Active 
Opposition, 0 Population (Departments), or Sabotage (LoCs). 

Leave in place 1 FARC Guerrilla, Underground if possible, in 
each origin space if any Faction’s Base is there.
NOTE: Select equal-priority origin or destination spaces in 
random order (8.2-8.3). For an illustration of Non-player FARC 
March, see the Playbook.
EXTORT: Then Extort per 8.7.1.
8.7.3 Attack. If Rally (8.7.1) and March (8.7.2) conditions are 
not met and FARC has more Resources than does Government, 
instead Attack (with FARC Guerrillas, 3.3.3). Attack in the 
following spaces, targeting a Shipment FARC could take, then 
AUC, then Government, then Cartels:
•	 First, anywhere with 3 or more FARC Guerrillas and an enemy.
•	 Then, in 1 City or Department—or, if none, LoC—with an 
Underground FARC Guerrilla and a target above, where FARC 
would then Ambush per the rule below).
AMBUSH: Ambush (per 4.3.2, with an Underground FARC 
Guerrilla) in the Attack space with the fewest total FARC Guerril­
las. If tied, choose first where a Shipment is targeted, then AUC, 
then Government, then Cartels. If none has an Underground 
FARC Guerrilla, execute no Special Activity.
8.7.4 Terror. If Rally (8.7.1) and March (8.7.2) conditions are 
not met and FARC has the same or fewer Resources than does 
Government, instead execute Terror (with Underground FARC 
Guerrillas, 3.3.4):
•	 First, on all unSabotaged LoCs (cost is 0).
•	 Then, in other spaces where Kidnap could take Resources or 
Shipments (4.3.3), until there are 3 such spaces (including 
LoCs).
•	 Finally, in all other spaces with at least 1 Population not in 
Active Opposition.
KIDNAP: Then Kidnap (4.3.3) in up to 3 spaces selected for 
Terror (where FARC Guerrillas outnumber Police):
•	 First, on LoCs, then in Cities (target Government), and finally 
in Departments with Cartels Bases.
•	 Skip spaces where the target has 0 Resources and no Shipment. 
If no targets, FARC executes no Special Activity.
8.7.5 Agitate. Non-player FARC Agitates (6.4.2) to the maximum 
extent possible. 
If FARC has too few Resources to Agitate everywhere or if “Al­
fonso Cano” is in play, FARC Agitates first where fewest Terror 
markers, then where Support, then where highest Population, 
then randomly. Remove Terror only if a shift would be achieved.
8.8 Non-Player Government Actions
8.8.1 Pass or Play? If the next revealed Event card is a Gov­
ernment Capability (5.3) and the current Event card is not, 
Government Passes (in order to be Eligible for the Capability).
NOTE: If several Capability cards appear in a row, Non-player 
Government will take the first one in order to be Eligible on the 
next unrevealed card. 
8.8.2 Event or Operation? If Government does not Pass to gain 
a Capability on the next card, the Sequence of Play allows it to 
play the current Event (2.3.4), and the Event would be effective 
(8.1), check the Non-player Government Event Instructions on 
the relevant aid foldout (8.4.4) to see whether it will execute the 
Event or choose an Operation and Special Activity.
8.8.3 Assault. If Government neither Passed nor played the 
Event, and an Assault alone (without Air Lift or Air Strike) now 
would remove a Shipment, a player’s Base, or at least 4 Guerrillas 
from any combination of Factions, the Government Assaults. 
Before the Assault, add a Special Activity per 8.8.7 below. Then 
Assault for a maximum of 9 Resources as follows:
•	 First, in whatever Cities and Departments (only) Assault can 
remove the largest number of Insurgent Bases, then to add 
Government Control of the most Population possible, then to 
remove the most Shipments, then to remove the last Insurgent 
piece in each space. Within that, first select the space with 
highest Population; within that to target player pieces before 
Non-player pieces; within that FARC, then AUC, then Cartels. 
•	 Then, if the unshaded “Tapias” Government Capability is in 
effect, Assault on LoCs with active Guerrillas and cubes, in 
order from highest to lowest Econ. 
8.8.4 Train. If Government did not Pass, play the Event, or 
Assault, and it has 10+ pieces of any types available or is able 
to buy Civic Action (per 6.4.1 and 8.8.8), Train in a maximum 
of 4 spaces as follows:
•	 First, in up to 3 spaces, place exactly 6 cubes per 8.1.2. Select 
spaces first to change Control of the most Population, then to 
add either Police or Troops where there are none yet (Police 
first), then in random spaces. 
•	 Then add a Special Activity per 8.8.7. 
•	 Then buy Civic Action per 8.8.8 for the largest shift possible 
in a space with no Terror, first in a Train space, otherwise in 
1 additional space where Civic Action is possible (placing up 
to 6 cubes per 8.1.2 if able). 
•	 If no Civic Action occurred, Train to replace 3 Government 
Cubes with a Government Base in the Department with the 
highest Population above 0 and that has no Government Base 
already, room for a Base, and at least 5 cubes. 
8.8.5 Patrol. If the Government did not Pass, execute the Event, 
Assault, or Train, and if Guerrillas on any LoC either are Under­
ground or outnumber any cubes on that LoC (including if there 
are no cubes at all there), Patrol. Move Police then Troops, with­
out moving the last of either type from any City or Department: 
•	 First to equal Guerrillas on each LoC possible—adding 1 
extra cube if the shaded “7th Special Forces” Capability is in 
effect—from the space with the largest number of cubes that 
are able to reach that LoC. 
•	 Then move cubes that have not yet moved, from spaces with at 
least 4 cubes and Government Control, within that, from those 
with the largest number of cubes above the number needed to 
maintain Government Control, until as many Cities as possible 
have at least 3 cubes, Government Control, and both Troops 
and Police. 

•	 Then move 1 Police to each 3-Econ LoC that doesn’t have any 
Police yet. 
•	 Then Assault on LoCs to remove the most Insurgents possible. 
•	 Finally, add a Special Activity per 8.8.7. 
8.8.6 Sweep. If Government did not Pass, execute the Event, 
Assault, or Train, and if no LoC has either any Underground 
Guerrillas or more Active Guerrillas than cubes, Sweep. Before 
the Operation, add a Special Activity per 8.8.7. Then Sweep for 
a maximum of 12 Resources as follows:
•	 During the following movements, do not remove Government 
Control anywhere, nor reduce any Support space to fewer than 3 
cubes, nor reduce any LoC to fewer cubes than Guerrillas—plus 
one extra cube if the shaded “7th SF” Capability is in effect. 
•	 Select Sweep spaces first where it is possible to Activate all 
Guerrillas, then to add Government Control; within those 
priorities select Cities first, then Departments; within that, first 
spaces with Support, then where cubes are already present, 
then elsewhere; within that, in order from largest to smallest 
Population. 
•	 Move in just enough Troops first to add Government Control, 
then to Activate all Guerrillas, then to add at least one Troop 
where there are only Police present (even if that Troop is not 
needed for Control or Activation). 
•	 If the unshaded “NDSC” Capability is in effect, also move in 
one Police to each Sweep space where there is none already. 
•	 After movement, Activate as many Underground Guerrillas 
as possible in all Sweep spaces. 
8.8.7 Government Special Activities. Whenever the above rules 
for an Operation call for the Non-player Government to add a 
Special Activity (in the middle of a Train Operation, 8.8.4; after 
a Patrol Operation, 8.8.4; or before an Assault, 8.8.4, or Sweep, 
8.8.6), execute one Special Activity selected in the following order:
ERADICATE: If the Cartels Faction is controlled by a player 
and has 8 or more Bases, Eradicate to remove the most Cartels 
Bases possible from a Department that is not already selected for 
Assault. If there is more than one such space, select first that with 
the smallest Population, then (among equal Pop) an Opposition 
Department before one with Support or Neutral, at random. If 
no such space exists, or if the Cartels have fewer than 8 Bases 
on the map, instead Air Strike.
AIR STRIKE: If Government did not Eradicate and the accom­
panying Operation is an Assault, Patrol, or Sweep, Air Strike to 
remove a player AUC’s Base, if possible, then a player FARC’s 
Base. If no such Base can be removed, instead remove the last 
Insurgent piece (whether a player’s or Non-player’s) from a 
space, first on the LoC with the highest Econ value and an Active 
Guerrilla, then in the Department with the highest Population; 
within that, remove a player piece before a Non-player one, then 
choose randomly. If no such target is available or the accompa­
nying Operation was Train, instead Air Lift.
AIR LIFT: If Government did not Air Strike, Air Lift Troops 
from the City or Department with at least 4 cubes and Govern­
ment Control, first from the largest number of Troops above 
those needed to maintain Government Control, and—within 
that—where the Non-player Government would not build a Base 
(because there is no room, or the space is a Department with a 
Government Base already or a City, or there are no Government 
Bases available). Select the destination as follows:
•	 If the accompanying Operation is Assault or Sweep, Air Lift 
first to the highest priority space for that Operation that has too 
few cubes to complete the Operation (regardless of whether or 
not Government will actually execute the Operation there). If 
there is no such space, instead Air Lift to a Department or City 
with Police but no Troops (select randomly if there is more 
than one).
•	 If the accompanying Operation is Train or Patrol, Air Lift first 
to a space where the Troops added are needed to enable Civic 
Action, within that, to the space that would allow the largest 
possible shift towards Active Support. If there is no such space, 
instead Air Lift to the highest-Population Department where 
the added Troops would enable a Government Base to be 
built (5+ cubes, no Govt Base, and room for a Base). If none 
possible, then Air Lift to add Troops where there are Police but 
no Troops. If no such destination, Air lift to add Government 
Control to the highest Population space able (where at least 1 
Population).
If none of the above is possible, instead Eradicate.
ERADICATE: If none of the above Special Activities were exe­
cuted, Government will Eradicate where it can remove the most 
Cartel Bases (regardless both of whether the Cartels Faction is a 
player or Non-player and of how many Bases it has on the map) 
from a Department that is not about to be selected for Assault 
(per 8.8.3). If there is more than one space that would allow 
the maximum possible number of Cartel Bases to be removed, 
select first the candidate space with the smallest Population, then 
one with any Opposition. If there is no such space, Non-player 
Government will not execute any Special Activity.
RETURN TO OPS: After executing that (or no) Special Activity, 
return to the accompanying Operation if there are any instructions 
left to execute.
8.8.8 Civic Action. Whenever Non-player Government buys 
Civic Action, whether during Training (3.2.1) or the Support 
Phase (6.4), it does so as follows:
•	 Except during the final Propaganda Round, buy no Civic 
Action that would reduce Government Resources below 15. 
•	 During Train Operations, execute Civic Action for the greatest 
possible shift towards Active Support in a space with no Terror. 
•	 During the Support Phase, first execute Civic Action to Passive 
Support wherever possible; within that, first where no Terror 
then elsewhere; within that first for the largest reduction of 
Opposition, then the largest increase of Support, then ran­
domly. Then, if there are still Resources available, execute 
Civic Action wherever it is possible to bring spaces to Active 
Support, first in the highest Population. 

8.8.9 Propaganda Rounds.
SABOTAGE: During the Sabotage Phase of (6.2), if the unshaded 
“7th Special Forces” Government Capability is in play, Non-play­
er Government will use it at the end of the phase, first to remove 
any Sabotage from the three Econ 3 LoCs, then to remove Terror 
from those spaces that would have the highest priority for Civic 
Action without Terror per 8.8.8, and finally to remove Sabotage 
from other LoCs with the highest total Econ possible.
REDEPLOY: In the Redeploy Phase (6.5), Non-player Gov­
ernment relocates Troops and Police as follows. (Do not adjust 
Control until after all Redeploy movement.)
•	 First, move all Troops from LoCs and Departments without 
Government Bases to the side of the map. 
•	 Then move Police, each from the space that currently has 
most Police that have not yet moved and without removing 
the last Police from any City or Department; first to maintain 
Government Control in Population 1+ Departments with no 
Government Bases, then to equal the number of Cartel or AUC 
Guerrillas (whichever is highest) in each City or Department, 
then to put 1 Police in each Population 1+ space with none, then 
to put 1 Police on each Econ 3 LoC; finally to have at least 3 
cubes in each Support Department with no Government Base 
even if fewer than that are required to maintain Government 
Control. 
•	 Then return all Redeploying Troops to the map, first so each 
Government Base then City in order from highest to lowest 
Population has Government Control and at least 3 cubes, then 
1 Troop to each City and Department possible that only has 
Police; then move all other Redeploying Troops to Bogotá if 
possible, otherwise to a random City with Government Control. 
(Then adjust Control.)
8.9 1-Player Victory
The player in a 1-player game never wins during Propaganda 
Rounds (7.2). To succeed, the player must avoid any Non-player 
win and have the highest victory margin after the final Round 
(7.3). Subtract the highest Non-player margin from that of the 
player to determine the degree of success:
•	 0 or less—Failure. The player’s faction has lost its bid for 
power. While the Government fights for legitimacy, illegal 
armed groups abound and rule key territory. Colombia is 
descending into chaos.
•	 1 to 3—Stalemate. The player’s faction has the upper hand, 
but the other factions are not beaten. While the insurgent tide is 
stemmed, illegal groups remain strong. Years of war lie ahead.
•	 4 to 8—Progress. While contenders remain, the player’s 
faction is clearly dominant and will rule the nation in the long 
run.
•	 9 or more—Triumph. The player’s faction has won decisively, 
shattering its enemies so badly that they will not be able to 
challenge the new ruling order for years if ever.
EXAMPLE: A solo Government player has avoided Non-player 
victory over 4 Propaganda Rounds. At game end, with just 1 
AUC and 2 FARC Bases on the map, AUC has a –1 victory 
margin—the highest of the Non-players. Total Support is 61, so 
the Government victory margin is +1. The player’s margin is 2 
above AUC’s: “Stalemate”. 
WHAT DOES VICTORY MEAN?
If Government - Government strategy is a model success. 
Guerrillas are deserting or demobilizing across the country. 
Narco-traffickers remain but have little political power. Improved 
security is leading to economic growth, and stability is in sight.
If FARC - The Marxist-Leninist revolution sweeps the country, 
redistributing the farm lands of the great estates to the poor... 
and getting rid of as many former land-owners as possible in 
the process.
If AUC - Colombia is in the iron grip of the conservative 
land-owners and their death squads.
If Cartels - Ever more prosperous drug runners have free rein 
in the country, buying any politician they need to stay in control.

KEY TERMS INDEX
Accompanying: Operation required for Spe­
cial Activity. (4.1.1)
Activate: Flip or leave Guerrilla Active. (1.4.3)
Active: Guerrilla symbol end up: vulnerable to 
Assault or Air Strike (1.4.3); City or Depart­
ment in open Support or Opposition (1.6.1).
Adjacent: Spaces next to each other for move­
ment or Events. (1.3.3)
Agitate: FARC action during Propaganda to 
increase Opposition. (6.4.2)
Aid: Foreign assistance that adds to Govern­
ment Resources during Propaganda Rounds or 
by Event.(1.7, 6.3.1)
Air Lift: Government Special Activity that 
moves Troops. (4.2.1)
Air Strike: Government Special Activity that 
removes enemy piece. (4.2.2)
Ambush: FARC/AUC Special Activity ensur­
ing Attack success. (4.3.2, 4.4.1)
Attack: Insurgent Operation that removes 
enemy pieces. (3.3.3)
Assassinate: AUC Special Activity that re­
moves enemy piece. (4.4.2)
Assault: Government Operation that removes 
enemy pieces. (3.2.4)
AUC: An Insurgent Faction (Autodefensas 
Unidas de Colombia: United Self-Defense 
Forces of Colombia). (1.0, 1.5)
Available: Force pieces in holding boxes that 
may be placed. (1.4.1)
Base: Mostly-immobile force pieces that affect 
Rally, Resources, and Victory, among other 
functions. (1.4)
Bases Last: Requirement for some actions that 
a target Faction have no cubes or Guerrillas in a 
space before its Bases can be removed. (3.2.4, 
3.3.3, 4.2.2)
Bribe: Cartels Special Activity that removes 
or flips pieces. (4.5.4)
Campaign: Event card series leading up to a 
Propaganda Round. (2.4.1)
Captured Goods: Place Guerrilla or take 
Shipment via Attack. (3.3.3.2) 
Cartels: An Insurgent Faction: Colombian 
narco-traffickers. (1.0, 1.5)
City: Type of space: urban areas. (1.3.3)
Civic Action: Government action to increase 
Support. (3.2.1, 6.4.1)
Coastal: Space touching blue area (including 
Panamá, Ecuador, and Atlántico). (1.3.4)
COIN (Counterinsugency): Government 
Operations. (3.2)
Commandeer: Take Shipment via Assassinate. 
(4.4.3) 
Contraband: Shipment transfer via Bribe. 
(4.5.4) 
Control: Possession of more Forces in a De­
partment or City by Government or FARC than 
all others combined. (1.8, 3.2.1, 4.3.1)
Cost: Resources given up for an Operation. 
(3.1)
Cylinder: Token to mark a Faction’s Resources 
or Eligibility (1.7, 2.2)
Cube: Troops or Police piece. (1.4)
Cultivate: Cartels Special Activity to place or 
relocate a Base. (4.5.1)
Department (Dept): Type of space represent­
ing rural areas. (1.3.2)
Deployment: Initial set up of forces. (2.1, back 
of rulebook)
Drug Bust: Assault removing Shipment for 
Aid. (3.2.5) 
Drug Ransom: Take Shipment via Kidnap. 
(4.3.3) 
Dual Use: Event with 2 alternative effects. (5.2)
Economic Value (Econ): Resources that an 
unSabotaged LoC will provide Government 
each Propaganda Round. (1.3.4, 6.3.1) 
Eligible: Faction able to execute Event or 
Operation: per Faction order, 1st and 2nd Eli­
gible. (2.3.1-.2)
Elite Backing: AUC option to free Rally 
during the Support Phase. (6.4.5) 
El Presidente: Track showing current Presi­
dent of Colombia. (6.4.3)
Enemy: Assets of another Faction than the 
executing Faction. (1.5)
Eradicate: Government Special Activity to 
remove rural Cartels Bases and add Aid. (4.2.3)
Event: Card with Faction order and text a 
Faction may execute. (2.3, 5.0)
Execute: Implement Event or conduct Opera­
tion or Special Activity. (2.3)
Extort: FARC/AUC Special Activity that adds 
Resources. (4.3.1, 4.4.1)
Faction: Player or Non-Player role: Govt, 
FARC, AUC, Cartels. (1.5)
Faction Order: Card symbols determining 1st 
and 2nd Eligible. (2.3.2)
FARC: An Insurgent Faction (Fuerzas Arma­
das Revolucionarias de Colombia: Revolu­
tionary Armed Forces of Colombia). (1.0, 1.5)
FARC Zone: Dept that Govt forces may not 
enter. (1.4.2, 6.4.4)
Final: 4th (optionally, 3rd) Propaganda card’s 
round, game end. (2.4.1, 7.3)
Flip: Switch Guerrilla between Underground 
and Active. (1.4.3)
Forces: Troops, Police, Guerrillas, or Bases 
(pieces). (1.4)
Foreign Country: State bordering Colombia. 
(1.3.5)
Forest (Tropical): Department type that hin­
ders Sweep. (1.3.2, 3.2.3)
Free: Operation or Special Activity via Event 
or Shipping that does not cost Resources or 
affect Eligibility. (2.3.6, 3.1.2, 5.5)
Friendly: Assets of the executing Faction.
Government (Govt): The non-Insurgent Fac­
tion. (1.0, 1.5)
Govt Capabilities: Enduring event effects that 
help or hurt Government actions. (5.3)
Grassland: Department type that does not 
hinder Operations. (1.3.2)
Guerrilla: Mobile Insurgent forces piece. (1.4)
Ineffective Events: Non-player avoidance of 
Events without effect (8.1).
Ineligible: Faction skipped in Faction order. 
(2.3.1-.2)
Insurgent: FARC, AUC, or Cartels Faction. 
(1.0)
Insurgent Discord: A Sequence of Play 
exception in 2-player games that blocks the 
FARC player from determining Non-player 
Event use. (8.1)
Insurgent Momentum: Events whose shaded 
portion stays in effect until next Propaganda 
Round. (5.4)
Kidnap: FARC Special Activity that transfers 
Resources. (4.3.3)
Level: Support/Opposition status of a space. 
Limited Operation (LimOp): A player Op­
eration in just 1 (destination) space, with no 
Special Activity. (2.3.5)
LoC: Line of Communication: Pipeline or 
Road. (1.3.4)
March: Insurgent Operation to move Guer­
rillas. (3.3.2)
Mountain: Department type that hinders As­
sault. (1.3.2, 3.2.4)
Non-Player: Faction controlled by the game. 
(1.5, 8.0)
Neutral: Space not in Support nor Opposition. 
Open Deployment: Option with latitude in set 
up of player forces. (2.1)
Operation (Op): Core action Faction performs 
with its forces. (3.0)
Opposition: Status of space’s population 
against the Government. (1.6)
Opposition + Bases: Total Opposition plus 
the number of FARC Bases on the map. (1.6.3, 
7.2-.3)
Overflow: Boxes and markers to help manage 
occasional cases of Forces overcrowding. (1.4)
Pass: Decline to execute an Event or Op when 
Eligible. (2.3.3)

Passive: City or Department in reserved Sup­
port or Opposition. (1.6.1)
Pastrana: Andrés Pastrana Arango: El Presi­
dente 1998-2002, after Samper. (6.4.3)
Patrol: Government Operation to protect 
LoCs. (3.2.2)
Pawn: Token to designate spaces selected for 
Operation (black) or Special Activity (white). 
(3.1.1)
Phase: Segment of a Propaganda Round. (6.0)
Piece: Force unit: Troop or Police cube, Guer­
rilla, or Base (not a marker like Shipment). (1.4)
Pipeline: LoC type representing petroleum or 
gas pipelines and parallel or nearby road or 
rail. (1.3.4)
Place: Move a piece from Available to map. 
(1.4.1)
Police: Govt forces that maintain rural control 
and hinder crime. (1.4)
Population (Pop): Representation of the pop­
ulace of a Department or City, about 1 million 
people per point. (1.3.2-.3)
Priorities: Rules guiding Non-player Factions. 
(8.0)
Process: Cartels Special Activity to prepare 
Shipment or liquidate Base. (4.5.2)
Propaganda: Cards triggering Rounds of the 
same name that include victory checks, Re­
source acquisition, and several other periodic 
functions. (2.4, 6.0)
Rally: Insurgent Operation to place or regroup 
pieces. (3.3.1)
Redeploy: Propaganda phase in which Gov­
ernment moves cubes. (6.5)
Remove: Take from map (forces to Available). 
(1.4.1)
Replace: Exchange pieces between Available 
and map. (1.4.1)
Reset: Propaganda phase to ready for next 
card. (6.6)
Resources: Factions’ wherewithal for Opera­
tions and other actions. (1.7)
Road: LoC representing transport route such 
as highway or rail. (1.3.4)
Sabotage: Place a Sabotage marker on a LoC 
that does not have one, temporarily damaging 
it to block addition of Government Resources. 
(3.3.4, 6.2, 6.3)
Samper: Ernesto Samper Pizano: El Presidente 
1994-1998 and at game start. (2.1, 6.4.3)
Select: Choose an action’s locations or targets. 
(3.1, 3.1.1, 4.1, 5.1)
Shaded: 2nd text choice of Dual-Use Event, 
often anti-Government. (5.2)
Shift: Change a space’s Support/Opposition. 
Ship: Deliver Shipment and use proceeds for 
immediate operation. (2.3.6)
Shipment: Marker representing major cache of 
processed drugs awaiting delivery to market. 
(4.5.3)
Space: Map area that holds pieces in play: 
Department, City, LoC. (1.3.1)
Special Activities: Actions accompanying 
Operations; most are cost-free and unique to 
a Faction. (4.0)
Stacking: Limits on pieces that can occupy a 
space. (1.4.2)
Standard Deployment: Option with pre-de­
termined set up of forces. (2.1)
Support: Status of space’s population favoring 
the Government. (1.6)
Sweep: Government Operation to move Troops 
into a space and flip Guerrillas Active. (3.2.3)
Target: Enemy Faction or piece that is the 
object of an Operation, Special Activity, or 
Event. (3.1, 4.1)
Terror: Insurgent Operation that places marker 
of same name in City or Department or Sabo­
tage on LoC. (3.3.4)
Total Opposition: Passive Opposition Popula­
tion plus twice Active Opposition Population. 
(1.6.3)
Total Support: Passive Support Population 
plus twice Active Support Population. (1.6.3)
Town: Map feature that bounds LoCs (not a 
space). (1.3.3)
Train: Govt Operation to place pieces and 
conduct Civic Action. (3.2.1)
Transfer: Give Resource or Shipment to an­
other Faction. (1.5.1)
Troops: Mobile Govt forces specializing in 
Sweep and rural Assault. (1.4)
Uncontrolled: A City or Dept with neither 
Govt nor FARC Control. (6.2)
Underground: Guerrilla, symbol end down: 
not subject to Assault or Air Strike and capable 
of Terror or Ambush. (1.4.3)
Unshaded: 1st text choice of Dual-Use Event, 
often pro-Government. (5.2)
Uribe: Álvaro Uribe Vélez, El Presidente 
2002-2010, after Pastrana. (6.4.3)
Victory Margin: Calculation, unique to a Fac­
tion, of closeness to its victory condition. (7.3)
AVAILABLE FORCES (1.4.1)
(Total, before set up)
	 	
Government	
AUC	
Cartels
 Troops	
 Police	
 Guerrillas	
 18 x	
12 x
 Bases	
3 x	
 9 x	
 6 x	
 15 x
GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com