Following a massive storm, a wolf mother is seen anxiously lurking around Rietburg without her cubs. 
The three young wolves were last seen in the mountains on the opposite side of the river. Could they be lost in the dwarven mines? 
You should investigate this right away! But before you can start your search in the mine, you still have some tasks to complete. 
Mart, the old bridge guard, will only unblock the bridge after you have solved his tasks.
Game Material
Before playing for the first time
Carefully remove all the parts from the 3 die-cut boards. Place the 18 game figures in the matching plastic holders. 
The coloured bar at the bottom of the figure must match the colour of the plastic holder.
Aim of the game
In Andor, you will play the part of the magician, the warrior, the archer and the dwarf and try to find the three wolf cubs in 
the dwarven mine. But before you can begin, you still have to prepare a few things in order to ensure Andor’s safety. Only 
after you have solved all of the bridge guard’s tasks will he unblock the path into the dwarven mine. But watch out! While you 
are on your way, the sly dragon is getting closer to Rietburg. If he reaches Rietburg, you must immediately stop your search 
and you will lose the game. If you find all the wolf cubs before the dragon reaches Rietburg, you’ve won the game! 
•	 1 Game board 
•	 1 Night marker (with rooster) 
•	 4 Hero boards
	 (Each board displays a heroine on one side and a hero on the 
	 other side.)
•	 18 Characters (8 Heroes, 1 Bridge Guard, 7 Gors, 
	 1 Troll, 1 Dragon) 
•	 18 Plastic holders for the game figures
•	 12 Dice (4 x blue, 3 x green, 3 x yellow, 1 x purple, 1 x red)
•	 27 Sun discs (made of wood)
•	 3 Well tokens
•	 3 Torch tokens
•	 38 Fog tokens (round) 
•	 10 Mine tokens (hexagonal) 
•	 29 Task tokens (square) 
•	 12 Task cards

12. Place the cards labelled 
“start card” and “end card” next 
to the board with the red side 
facing upwards. Leave some 
space between them for the task 
cards (see page #3).
11. The eldest player is given 
the night marker and places it 
in front of them with the side 
showing the rooster facing 
upwards.
6. Place the torch 
tokens next to the 
game board.
4. Place all of the Gors next to the 
game board as a reserve.
10. Each player takes a Gor from the reserve and places it on the game board. Gors can only 
stand on the numbered mountain and forest spaces, also called Gor spaces. Gors are always 
placed on the highest number first and then on the next-highest number, one by one. There is 
never more than one Gor on a Gor space. Example: when there are four players, the mountain and 
forest spaces with the numbers 8, 7, 6, and 5 will be occupied by Gors at the start of the game.
7. Turn all the hexagonal 
mine tokens over (with the 
torch facing upwards) and 
mix them; place one on each 
of the spaces in the dwarven 
mine that is marked by a 
hexagon facing downwards.
8. Place Mart, the bridge guard, 
on the space in front of the bridge 
that depicts the stone house. 
5. Place the fog tokens face-down, shuffle 
them and place one on each free space to 
the left of the river. You can only place them 
on spaces displaying yellow grass and cannot 
place any fog tokens on spaces with bushes, 
trees, caves, mountains, wells, etc.
2. Place the dragon die 
near the dragon bar.
3. Place the dragon on one of the start 
spaces of the dragon bar, depending on the 
number of players. If there are only two players, 
start the dragon on the cloud space with 2 
raindrops. If there are three or four players, 
start the dragon on the cloud space with 3 or 4 
raindrops, accordingly.
9. Place the three well tokens 
(with the sunny side facing upwards) 
on the three well spaces.
1. Place the game board in the middle of the table.
Now select the matching task cards for the game you have chosen. Each player then chooses a hero. Find out how this works on page 3.
Game Setup

Is this your first time playing Andor? 
In each Andor game, you must fulfil specific tasks before you can look for 
the wolf cubs in the dwarven mine. These tasks will differ from game to game. 
In your first game, you have to fulfil tasks 1 and 2. 
Take task cards 1 and 2, the 6 plant task tokens, and the falcon task token.
Place task cards 1 and 2, with the red side facing upwards, between the start card and the end card. 
The order of the task cards does not matter. Turn the 6 plant task tokens over, shuffle them, and place 
one on each of the 6 bushes on the game board, facing downwards. 
Place the falcon task token on the space directly in front of the bridge (the bridge guard’s house). 
All remaining task cards, task tokens, and the troll figure aren’t required for this game. 
They can go back in the box.
Have you successfully completed the first challenge already? 
In the subsequent games, you will use other task cards. Which tasks, how they work, and what additional material 
you need can be found under The Bridge Guard’s Tasks.
The Archers
The archers of Andor are untiring rangers and 
are used to roaming the forests all day long. They 
therefore have 9 sun discs instead of 6 and are 
often still wandering around when the other heroes 
 are already asleep.
The Dwarves
The dwarves know their way around the mines and 
caves of Andor very well. Dwarves have more torches 
on their dice and are therefore especially useful when 
looking for the wolf cubs. In addition, they can take 
shortcuts through the caves and therefore cover large 
distances in just one step.
The Heroes 
Each player takes on the role of one of the heroes of Andor by selecting a hero board and placing it with your selected hero facing 
upward. In addition, everyone takes the matching coloured die and the corresponding hero figure. The magician takes the large 
purple die, the warrior takes the 4 blue dice, the archer takes the 3 green dice, and the dwarf takes the 3 yellow dice. Each player 
receives several wooden sun discs (which look like round sun spots) and places them face-down on your hero board. A loot bag is 
depicted on each hero board, into which you can deposit as many objects as your hero finds during the game. Place your hero figures 
on Rietburg in the upper left-hand corner of the game board. Any leftover hero boards, figures, dice and sun discs can be returned to 
the box. 
Which hero do you want to be? 
Each hero in Andor has its own special features, strengths and weaknesses. Some heroes can carry out certain tasks easier than 
others.
Note: Each hero board shows a heroine and a hero on the front and back. Both heroes have identical features. 
Find the hero that you like the most and take the matching game figure. The word “hero” in the text applies to 
the heroine as well, and vice versa.
The Warriors
Warriors are brave heroes and are 
particularly good at fighting against Gors. 
They have more dice than all the other 
heroes, with several swords depicted on 
the dice. 
The Magicians
Magicians use powerful flashes of light 
during battle to drive off their opponent. 
They only have one die. Instead of swords, 
it depicts several flash symbols.
The Task Cards

1.	 Moving or standing still
If it is your turn, you can move your hero in any direction you like 
across the game board. You must always move them step-by-
step from one space, over a white line, and into an adjacent 
space. You are therefore allowed to move from one space to any 
other adjacent space. However, you cannot set foot in the river. 
You can only cross it using the bridge.
Note: At the start of the game, the bridge guard obstructs 
your path. Only after you have fulfilled his tasks will he clear 
the path. After this, the bridge itself does not count as a space. 
You can pass from the space with the bridge guard’s house on 
to the other side in one step.
Each step costs time i.e. you have to give up one of your sun 
discs for each step you decide to take. You can move more than 
one step during your turn, if you have enough sun discs, and take 
your action upon reaching your final step. 
You can find what options you have in point 2 – “Carrying out 
actions on the target space”.
Don’t want to move? No problem, you are allowed to stay still. 
This can be sensible if you are already standing on a space where 
you want to carry out actions. 
Note: “Staying still” also costs one sun disc.
Game Rules 
The eldest player has the night marker in front of them. The eldest player turns the start card over onto the green side, reads it and 
the game begins. The events of the game always alternate in phases between day and night. The game begins on day 1. Each day, 
your heroes take turns performing actions. Each action costs you time in the form of sun discs. When your hero runs out of sun discs, 
they go to sleep. Once all of the heroes are asleep, day comes to an end and night falls, at which point, creatures move. Once all of the 
creatures have moved, each player gets their sun discs back and a new day begins.
The player with the night marker will start first. After that, move around the circle clockwise and take it in turns. 
A turn always consists of the following components in precisely this sequence:
1.	 Moving or staying still (costs you sun discs)
2.	Carrying out actions on the target space (does not cost you any sun discs)
Play moves to the next player. Repeat these steps until you are out of sun discs. Once your player is out of sun discs, your tired 
hero goes to sleep. The first player to go to sleep takes the night marker and places it in front of them with the rooster facing 
upwards. All of the other players continue playing until they too run out of sun discs, continuing the sequence of play while 
skipping any sleeping players. Once all heroes are asleep, night falls. 
Exception: The dwarves have a particular 
feature. On their hero board, you will find a 
corresponding symbol that serves as a reminder 
of this feature. Dwarves are the only heroes that are allowed 
to take a shortcut through the caves when they move. This 
means that they can enter any cave entrance and emerge at 
any other cave exit. The step from one cave to another costs 
one sun disc. If a dwarf still has any sun discs left over after 
this, they are allowed to continue their move as usual at the 
other end of the cave.
2.	Carrying out actions on the target space
Most actions are voluntary. The only mandatory action is 
revealing a fog token. Decide whether you want to carry out one 
or more of the actions on your target space. Actions do not cost 
you any sun discs. You have the following options:
Searching in the fog
Have you finished your move on a space with a fog token? Then 
you have to reveal it immediately. In the fog, you can find 
useful objects or allies, but you may also encounter dangerous 
creatures there. Read what happens with the individual tokens 
in the following overview “The fog tokens”.
Warning: Only reveal fog tokens on your target space! If you 
move over several spaces with fog tokens as part of your turn, 
these remain facing downwards.
A Day Proceeds As Follows

Gors (x 10)
Oh no! Another Gor has appeared. Take a Gor 
from the reserve. The number on the fog token 
shows you which Gor space you have to place 
him on. If the Gor space is already occupied by another Gor, 
skip it and place the new Gor on the next available Gor space 
along the footpath in the direction of Rietburg. If a Gor then 
reaches Rietburg, he sounds the alarm, as described under 
“Night falls”. Then place the Gor fog token back in the box.
If all 7 Gors are already on the game board and there are no 
more in the reserve, then you are in luck! The fog token is 
placed back in the box without having any effect.
Dragon (x 6)
The dragon is flying toward Rietburg! 
Throw the red dragon die and move the dragon 
the number of steps you roll toward Rietburg. 
Then, place the dragon fog token back in the box.
Wood (x 6)
Place the wood fog token in your loot bag. 
You can use it at the watchtower to light 
the beacon. 
Gold (x 5)
Place the gold fog token in your loot bag. 
You can use it to buy a torch token from the 
merchant. If you have already found Reka the 
herb witch in the fog, you can also purchase a torch token 
from her.
Swords (x5)
Place the sword fog token in your loot bag. 
During battle, you can use it as though you 
have rolled a sword symbol. 
Telescope (x 4)
If you reveal a telescope fog token, you can look 
at 2 additional fog tokens (but not mine tokens) 
anywhere on the game board on the left-hand 
side of the river and show them to your teammates. Memorize 
what they show, and place them back on their original space, 
fog side up. These 2 fog tokens have not been activated, 
but now you know what is hidden beneath them. Place the 
telescope fog token back in the box.
Hourglass (x 1)
The hourglass fog token allows you to take an 
additional step each day, starting on your next 
turn. Place the hourglass fog token face-up on 
your hero board next to the sun disc storage space and use it 
like a sun disc.
Note: You can exchange, put down and pass the hourglass 
on, like all the other objects. 
Reka the herb witch (x 1)
If you reveal the herb witch token, Reka 
immediately joins the game and remains active 
for the duration. As with merchants, you can go 
to Reka to buy torch tokens using gold from your loot bag.
Note: If task 2 (Help the injured falcon) is in the game, you 
can visit Reka, even if you are carrying the falcon. 
The fog tokens

Using wells
At the start of the game, all wells are full and lie with 
the sun side facing upwards. If your move ends on a 
full well, you may drink from it and refresh yourself. 
Place up to 3 sun discs back on your hero board, but only so that 
all the sun spots are covered again. Leftover sun discs expire. You 
cannot “save” them for a subsequent turn or for a different hero. 
Now turn the well onto its back. The well is now empty and fills 
back up during the night (see the section “night falls”). 
Note: You cannot fill the hourglass up using the well.
Fighting and driving away Gors
Is there a Gor on your final landing space? You can fight it and 
try and drive it out of Andor. It is a good idea to confront this 
villain so that peace can be restored in Andor. In addition to 
restoring peace, you can also scare the dragon away by winning 
battles against Gors. For every battle you win, you can move the 
dragon back one space.
Dice are used to win battles. Depending on which space you 
are on, you have to roll a certain number of swords in order to 
successfully drive away the Gor. In a forest, 2 dice must display 
swords. It is harder to fight Gors in the mountains. Therefore, 
you will need 3 dice with swords there.
Do you want to start a battle? 
First, take all of your dice from your hero 
board and throw them once. Place each die 
that displays swords on a sword storage space 
next to the Gor. You now have the following options:
 -	 Are there still available storage spaces? If so, the 
battle will not be decided until later. You may only roll once 
during each turn. Dice that are already on the game board 
stay there. You may continue the battle in a subsequent 
turn (as long as you still have sun discs remaining). 
 -	 Do you have one or more sword tokens in your loot 
bag? You can use them for assistance in battle. Each sword 
token counts as a sword symbol being rolled. You can use 
them to mark storage spaces.
 -	 Are all of the storage spaces covered? If so, you 
have won the battle! The Gor runs away, wailing loudly 
and the dragon, hearing his cries, retreats. Remove your dice 
from the game board. If you have used any sword tokens, 
put them back in the box. Place the Gor in the reserve 
next to the game board and move the dragon one space to 
the right on the dragon bar (away from Rietburg). 
Note: The dragon cannot be moved to the right beyond the last 
space on the dragon bar. If he is standing on the rightmost space, 
he simply stays still.
Exception: Magicians have a special skill. Instead of 
swords, the magician’s die has a flash symbol, which if rolled 
during battle, casts a mighty spell upon the Gor. The magician 
immediately wins the battle if a flash is rolled, regardless of 
how many sword storage spaces are free around the Gor.
Tip: Try to finish a battle within one day. If you don’t manage to, the 
Gor will escape in the night and all your efforts will have been in vain.
Do you want to continue a battle? 
Have you started a battle in an earlier turn, but the creature isn’t 
defeated yet? On your next turn (on the same day), throw your 
remaining dice. Simply place swords that you have rolled on the 
game board and mark sword spaces until they are all occupied. 
You can of course also use sword tokens from your loot bag for 
this. If you have won the battle, remove all the used dice from 
the game board and place sword tokens back in the box.
Note: You can also help a teammate who has started a battle, 
but not finished it yet, in exactly the same way. Move your hero 
to their space, throw your dice and use sword tokens from your 
loot bag. 
Example: You are playing the archer and are fighting against a 
Gor on space 4. You throw your 3 dice and roll 1 sword symbol. 
However, in order to conquer the Gor, you need 2 sword symbols. 
You have one sword fog token in your loot bag and have decided to 
use it to conquer the Gor. Place the fog token on the die storage 
space near the Gor. Done! Place the Gor back in the reserve, 
remove your die from the game board and place the sword fog 
token back in the box.
Picking up or putting down objects
If there are objects on your target space, you are allowed to 
pick them up and put them in your loot bag. Likewise, you can put 
as many objects as you want from your loot bag on your target 
space so that other heroes can pick them up later during their 
turn. Place them open on the game board.
Note: You can also discard objects that you have obtained in your 
current turn by immediately putting them face-up onto the board. 
Exchanging or passing on objects
If your move ends on a space which is shared with another hero, 
you can exchange or pass on as many objects from your loot 
bag as you want. 

Note: You can only exchange objects if your teammate is 
willing to do so. 
Lighting the beacon at the watchtower
You can keep the dragon away from 
Rietburg by keeping the fire burning at 
the watchtower. After placing a piece 
of wood from your loot bag onto one 
of the storage spaces at the 
Watchtower, you can move the 
dragon one space to the right 
(away from Rietburg).
Warning: You can only do this a total of 3 times in the game. If 
all storage spaces at the tower are occupied, you cannot burn any 
more wood here. If there is already wood on one of the storage 
spaces, you cannot pick it up again.
Going shopping
If your move ends on a merchant 
space, you can purchase torch tokens 
at the cost of 1 piece of gold each. 
Take the desired number of gold pieces 
from your loot bag and place them 
in the box. Take the corresponding 
number of torch tokens from the 
reserve next to the game board and 
place them into your loot bag. 
You can use torch tokens later on in 
the dwarven mines in order to look 
for the wolf cubs. 
Have you already found Reka the herb witch in the 
fog? Then you may also buy torch tokens from her for 
the same price.
Note: There are a total of just 3 torch tokens in the game. 
If they are sold, the merchant and Reka do not have any more. 
If you use torch tokens, they are put back in the box and are 
therefore out of the game.
The Dwarven Mines
Warning: You can only enter the dwarven mines after you 
have solved all the bridge guard’s tasks. You can read what 
the tasks are under “The Bridge Guard’s Tasks”. 
Once you have turned all of the task cards onto their green 
side, you can place the bridge guard back into the box, clearing 
the way so that you can cross the river. The bridge does not 
count as a space. You can pass from the bridge guard’s house 
to the other side in one step.
You can move in exactly the same way inside the dwarven 
mine as before on the left-hand side of the river. However, a 
new action is now available on your target space. 
Searching for the wolf cubs
If there is a mine card on your target space, you are allowed to 
try and search for the wolf cubs. Warning: Do NOT simply 
reveal the mine token! It is pitch-black in the dwarven mines, 
and so you will need a torch to be able to have a look around.
Throw all of your dice. If you roll at least one torch, you can 
reveal the mine token. Refer to the overview “The mine tokens” 
for what happens next.
If you did not roll a torch, you cannot reveal the mine token. If 
you still have sun discs left, you can try again on your next turn. 
Do you have at least one torch token in your loot bag? Then 
you can use it for assistance. It counts as rolling a torch. Place 
the torch token back in the box and reveal the mine token.

Night Falls
number of Gors from the reserve. If there are not enough, 
take a smaller number accordingly. Always place the Gors on 
the free Gor space that has the highest number first, then 
on the space with the next highest number, and so on. If 
a Gor space is already occupied by a Gor, skip it and place the 
new Gor on the next available Gor space along the footpath. 
If a Gor then reaches Rietburg, he will sound the alarm, as 
described above.
	
 Note: If a hero is standing on a Gor space, it is not considered to be 
occupied. Simply place the new Gor on it. The hero may decide whether 
to stay still in order to fight the Gor on their next turn or not. 
4.	 Refresh the wells: Turn all empty 
wells onto the sunny side; they are 
now full again.
5.	 Remove all the dice from 
the game board and put 
them back on the hero 
board: Are there still dice on the game board? Then you were 
not able to successfully drive away a Gor. During the night, 
he escapes and gets away at the next Gor space. You have to 
start from the beginning again on the following day. 
6.	 Place all of the sun discs 
back on your hero board: 
If one of you has the hourglass, 
place this back on your hero board, too. The heroes have now 
recuperated and are ready for a new day. The player with the night 
marker turns it onto the rooster side and is the first to take a turn. 
Dragon (x 5)
Too bad! The dragon is flying towards Rietburg! 
Throw the red dragon die and move the dragon 
1, 2, or 3 steps to the left (towards Rietburg) on the dragon 
bar, depending on the die result. Now place the dragon mine 
token back in the box.
Falcon (x 1)
The falcon flies quickly and nimbly in front of you 
and explores the mine. You can immediately take 
a look at 1 mine token anywhere on the game board, memorise 
it and turn it back over on its space. This mine token has not 
been activated, but now you know what is hidden beneath it. 
Then place the falcon mine token back in the box. 
Wolf cubs (x 3) 
Super, one of the wolf cubs has been saved! 
Place the wolf cub mine token in your loot bag. 
If you have revealed all 3 mine tokens with wolf cubs on, 
you have immediately won the game.
Octopus (x 1)
The octopus is waiting for its prey in the hidden 
lake in the mine. It will immediately drive you 
out of the mine and your day is over as your hero recovers. 
Place your hero figure on the space to the left of the bridge 
that depicts the stone house. Move all the sun discs that 
you still have from your hero board. You will get them back 
the following day and can continue to play as normal. Put 
the octopus mine token back in the box.
Have all the heroes gone to sleep? If so, it is night time in Andor. 
During the night, the creatures creep through the land. Turn the 
night marker over. The following things will now happen one 
after the other.
Note: On the back of the night marker you will see an overview 
of what happens during the night. 
1.	 The dragon flies: Throw the red die and 
move the dragon 1, 2, or 3 cloud spaces 
towards Rietburg accordingly.
2.	 All Gors move one space towards 
Rietburg along their trails: Starting 
with the Gor on the space with the smallest 
number, move each Gor further along the line of footsteps on 
the game board and place them on the next Gor space.
	
 Note: All Gor spaces are numbered - the numbers get smaller 
in the direction of Rietburg. 
	
 Warning: If a Gor reaches Rietburg, it will sound the alarm 
and calls for the dragon. Immediately throw the red die 
and move the dragon 1, 2, or 3 cloud spaces to the left towards 
Rietburg, depending on the dice result. Now place the Gor back 
in the reserve next to the game board.
3.	 New Gors appear: The dragon has 
summoned them. See how many Gors 
are pictured on the cloud space that 
the dragon is currently standing on. Take the corresponding 
The Dwarven Mine
The mine tokens

End of the Game
The game finishes as soon as you have found all 3 wolf cubs in 
the dwarven mine or the dragon has reached Rietburg. In 
both cases, turn the end card onto the green side and read what 
happens.
Note: During the game, always move the dragon along the 
dragon bar. However, as soon as it has moved past the last 
space to the left on the dragon bar, place it directly in Rietburg. 
Unfortunately you have lost the game. Give it another try!
Have you won the game? Congratulations! Do you want to 
experience even more adventures in Andor? Try again with the 
bridge guard’s other exciting tasks!
In each Andor game, the bridge guard gives you tasks that you have to complete before he will let you cross the bridge to the 
dwarven mines. The tasks differ from game to game. We recommend you play your games one after another with the following task 
combinations. Only move on to the next combination once you have mastered the current one. This is how you climb the difficulty 
levels and learn how to play the game perfectly. If you are experienced heroes already, you can also choose freely which tasks to put 
together, as described at the end.
Note: You can complete the tasks in any order within one game.
The first challenge: Tasks 1 and 2 
Task 1: Collect plants for the wolf cubs
Material: 6 plant task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 1 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and the 
end card. Turn the 6 plant task tokens over (bush side facing upwards), mix them and place them, again 
facing downwards, on the 6 bushes on the game board. 
The task: At least one of you has to have 2 of the same plant tokens. If a hero finishes their move on a space with a plant 
token, they may turn it over and place it in their loot bag. You can exchange plant tokens like normal objects or put them down 
on a space. As soon as one of you has 2 of the same plant tokens in your loot bag, you have completed the task. Turn the 
task card onto the green side.
Task 2: Help the injured falcon
Material: 1 falcon task token
Preparation: Place task card number 2 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Place the falcon task token on the space immediately in front of the bridge, where you 
can see the bridge guard’s house.
The task: Fetch the injured falcon from the bridge, bring it to Rietburg and place it there. You are allowed to pick up the 
falcon, take it with you, put it down and pass it on just like an object. However, you have to observe a few restrictions: While the 
falcon is injured, it is very scared. It is scared of fog, Gors and the darkness in the caves. The whole time a hero is carrying 
the falcon, they are not allowed to step on a space that still has a fog token facing downwards. In addition, the hero cannot 
step on a space with a Gor or a cave.
Note: You are not allowed to step on a space on which a Gor could suddenly appear either – i.e. mountain or forest spaces. 
You don’t want to put the falcon in danger.
As soon as the falcon has been placed in Rietburg, the task has been fulfilled. Turn the task card onto the green side.
The Bridge Guard’s Tasks

The second challenge: Tasks 3 and 4
Task 3: The fort of the Gors
Material: 3 fort task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 3 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Place the 3 fort task tokens on top of each of the 2 sword symbols on the forest 
spaces with the numbers 1, 4, and 6. 
The task: Travel to the 3 Gor Forts in the forests and remove them. The same rules apply when removing a fort as when 
fighting a Gor. For each fort, you will need 2 sword symbols, which you need to roll on the corresponding space. You could also 
use sword tokens for assistance here and continue an attempt that you already started in a later turn. Magicians only need one 
magic flash to remove the fort. Place removed forts back in the box. If you have removed all 3 forts, you have fulfilled the 
task. Turn the task card onto the green side. 
Warning: If a Gor stands on a space with a fort, you first have to remove the fort. Only thereafter can you fight 
the Gor on your next turn. 
Task 4: The people of Andor are starving
Material: 3 berry basket task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 4 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Place the three berry basket task tokens on the mountain spaces with the numbers 
2, 3 and 5.
The task: Collect 3 berry baskets and take them to Rietburg. You can pick up, put down and pass on berry baskets just like 
normal objects. A hero can also carry several berry baskets at the same time. Take all 3 berry baskets to Rietburg and place 
them there. As soon as you have brought the third berry basket to Rietburg, the task has been completed. Turn the task card 
onto the green side.
The third challenge: Tasks 5, 6, and 7
Task 5: Songs of hope
Material: 2–4 music book task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 5 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Mix the music book task tokens with the back (open book) facing upwards. Each player 
randomly takes one and places it on the tree of songs facing downwards. The remaining music books 
go back in the box unseen and are not required for the remainder of the game. 
The task: Fetch the music books from the tree of songs and take them to the location depicted thereon. You can pick up, 
put down and pass on music books just like normal objects. If you pick up a music book, you are allowed to turn it over and place 
it in the loot bag on your hero board. A hero can only ever carry 1 music book. The music book must then be taken to the space 
shown on the front of the token. Once you have placed all the music books on the correct spaces, you have completed the 
task. Turn the task card onto the green side.

Task 6: The destroyed bridge
Material: None
Preparation: Place task card number 6 with the red side facing upwards between the start card 
and the end card.
The task: Find 3 pieces of wood under the fog tokens, take them to the bridge guard’s hut and put them down. 
As soon as you have put the third piece of wood down on the space of the bridge guard, you have completed the task. 
Turn the task card onto the green side.
Note: Like before, you can also use the wood to light the fire at the watchtower. However, it then sometimes takes longer 
to collect 3 pieces of wood for the task. 
Task 7: Fresh water for Andor
Material: 3 dirty well task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 7 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Turn the 3 well tokens onto the grey side. Place the 3 dirty well task tokens on top of the 
well token on the game board.
The task: Clean all 3 wells. In order to clean a well, 2 heroes have to be on a space with a well at the same time. You can-
not use the wells while they are still dirty. If a hero is already standing on a space with a well, a second hero can step on the 
space and finish their move there. You can then remove the dirty well task token and put it back in the box. At first, the well 
remains on its grey side, but fills up in the following night and can then be used normally again. If you have removed all 3 dirty 
well task tokens, you have completed the task. Turn the task card onto the green side.
The fourth challenge: Tasks 8, 9 and 10
Task 8: The healing potion of the herb witch
Material: 1 healing potion task token
Preparation: Place task card number 8 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and the end card. Place 
the healing potion task token next to the game board.
The task: Find Reka the witch and enough gold under the fog token to buy a healing potion. Have you already found Reka 
the herb witch in the fog and do you have enough gold in your loot bag? Then from now on, you can buy a healing potion from 
Reka for 2 pieces of gold. Now take the healing potion task token and place it in your loot bag. 
Note: As before, you can also use gold to buy torch tokens from Reka or the merchant. However, it sometimes then takes 
longer to collect 2 pieces of gold for the healing potion.
As soon as one of you has the healing potion in your loot bag, the task has been completed. Turn the task card onto the 
green side.

691747-AN-02102020-GB
Authors: Inka and Markus Brand
Illustrations: Michael Menzel
Editing: Niccolo Riedel, 
Christian Sachseneder
Development: Carsten Engel
Graphics: AR GFX – Andreas Resch 
Fine Tuning: Michaela Kienle
Task 9: The secret letters from the king
Material: 4 letter task tokens
Preparation: Place task card number 9 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and the 
end card. Mix the 4 letter task tokens with the back (question mark) facing upwards and place them likewise 
with the back facing upwards on the 4 royal messengers on the game board.
The task: Each player has to find the letter in their hero’s colour (warrior = blue, archer = green, magician = purple, dwarf = 
yellow). If a hero finishes their move on a space with a letter, they are allowed to pick it up and look at it in secret. If the seal on 
the letter corresponds to their hero’s colour, they place it open in their loot bag. Otherwise, they turn the letter over and put it 
back in its place. They are not allowed to say what they have seen. Once all the players have collected the letter in their 
colour, you have completed the task. Turn the task card onto the green side.
Note: For 2 and 3 players, there will be leftover letters on the game board that do not need to be collected. 
Simply place these back in the box after the task has been completed.
Task 10: The terrifying cave troll
Material: 2-4 coat of arms task tokens, 1 troll figure
Preparation: Place task card number 10 with the red side facing upwards between the start card and 
the end card. Each player takes the coat of arms task token that matches their hero’s colour and places 
it in their loot bag (Warrior = blue, Archer = green, Magician = purple, Dwarf = yellow). All remaining coat of 
arms go back in the box. Roll once using the red dragon die. Now place the troll figure on the cave with 
the number 1, 2, or 3, depending on the die’s result.
The task: Drive away the troll. If a hero’s move ends on the cave space with the troll, they are allowed to roll, like in 
battle. In order to drive away the troll, the hero has to roll a torch. If they do not roll a torch, they may also use a torch token 
instead. As long as they have sun discs, they are of course also allowed to stay still and try again on their next turn. As soon as 
the hero has succeeded, they place the coat of arms from their loot bag on task card 10. They then roll the red dragon die. 
The troll retreats back inside the cave and appears at the exit with the number 1, 2, or 3, depending on the result of the roll. It 
is possible that the troll will appear at the same exit it vanished from. Once all the players have put their coat of arms 
down on the task card, you have passed the task. Turn the task card onto the green side.
Note: Swords and flashes cannot defeat the troll, it is way too big for that! You are not allowed to pass coats of arms on. 
Each of you has to face the troll.
A challenge for experienced heroes
Have you mastered the first 4 challenges successfully and are ready for even more adventures? From now on, don’t play with 
the set task combinations, but draw task cards at random. Mix all 10 task cards with the back (green edge) facing upwards and 
draw the corresponding number of cards depending on the desired difficulty level:
2 task cards: Easy • 3 task cards: Average • 4 task cards: Difficult
Note: Some task combinations are harder to master than others - this is completely normal.
All rights reserved. 
Part no.: 698959
Distributed in North America by
© Thames & Kosmos LLC
89 Ship Street, Providence, Rhode Island 
02903, USA 1-800-587-2872
www.thamesandkosmos.com
Kosmos Verlag would like to thank all game testers for their valuable support. Special thanks go to the children from Ostheim Primary School for lots of fun practice rounds.
Distributed in United Kingdom by
© 2020 Thames & Kosmos UK LP 
20 Stone Street, Cranbrook, Kent, 
TN17 3HE, UK 01580 713000
www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk
© 2020 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5–7, 70184 Stuttgart, Germany
Tel.: +49 711 2191-0, Fax: +49 711 2191-199
kosmos.de
info@kosmos.de