Welcome to 
New Angeles
Commissioner Dawn lifted the sheet, glanced at the cool-
ing corpse underneath, and then grimaced. It was just 
as the officer on the scene had said, and it meant a lot of 
paperwork and a lot of overtime for her detectives…
It is the future. Mankind has spread itself out across the 
solar system with varying degrees of success. The Moon 
and Mars are colonized. A plan to terraform Mars is well 
underway, hindered only by a civil war that has broken 
out on that planet. On Earth, a massive space elevator 
has been built, stretching up into the sky. It is the hub of 
trade in the solar system, and most people refer to it as the 
“Beanstalk.”
Computers have continued to advance, and that, combined 
with discoveries in the field of neurobiology, has led to 
brain-mapping, a method by which a human mind can be 
stored electronically. Recently, two rival companies used 
this development in different ways to create artificial, 
sentient life. Jinteki created human clones that can be 
matured and educated in a fraction of the normal time. 
Haas-Bioroid, on the other hand, built robots with brain-
mapped, artificially intelligent minds, calling them “bior-
oids.“ Naturally, this has caused no end of trouble.
With both companies selling their artificial humans, or an-
droids, as cheap labor, thousands of already-impoverished 
humans have found themselves unemployed. This, com-
bined with their deep mistrust of scientists playing God, 
has led many lower- and middle-class citizens to hate and 
fear the androids. A group calling itself Human First has 
sprung up, calling the androids “golems’“ – referring to 
the legendary soulless clay creatures. Human First has 
attacked the androids on numerous occasions, usually 
wielding sledgehammers as their weapon of choice, since 
the androids are often physically resilient.
In this hotbed of hatred, fear, and prejudice, the men and 
women of the New Angeles Police Department attempt to 
maintain order. Their job isn’t easy, since their charter 
requires them to patrol not only New Angeles but also the 
Heinlein moon colony located across the Beanstalk. Nev-
ertheless, they continue to guard the thin blue line between 
civilization and anarchy.
Object of the Game
In the futuristic city of New Angeles, five detectives are 
investigating a vital murder case. They are:
Caprice Nisei, Psychic Clone
Floyd 2X3A7C, Doubting Bioroid
Louis Blaine, Corrupt Cop
Rachel Beckmann, Estranged Bounty Hunter
Raymond Flint, Troubled P.I.
In Android, three to five players each take on the role of 
one of these detectives, and are given two weeks to solve 
the case. They investigate the murder by traveling around 
the map and following up leads to discover evidence that 
they can use to convict the suspect who they believe is 
guilty. In addition, they attempt to uncover the conspiracy 
behind the murder and deal with problems that spring up 
in their personal lives. The detective who best manages all 
of these tasks and collects the most victory points (VPs) 
wins the game.
Components
This Rulebook
1 Game Map (with 1 attached puzzle piece)
1 First Player Marker
1 Scene of the Crime Marker
1 Day Marker
24 Puzzle Pieces (+1 attached to game map)
6 Cardboard Vehicle Rulers
5 Cardboard Detective Figures
5 Plastic Detective Stands
5 Detective Sheets
5 Twilight Markers (1 per detective)
5 Tip Sheets (1 per detective)
25 Hero Markers (5 per detective)
6 Murder Sheets
6 Suspect Sheets
1 Time Sheet
1 Time Marker
6 Testimony Lead Markers
5 Physical Lead Markers
5 Document Lead Markers
60 Evidence Tokens (1 +5 token, 4 +4 tokens, 6 +3 
tokens, 11 +2 tokens, 11 +1 tokens, 7 –1 tokens, 7 –2 to-
kens, 4 –3 tokens, 1 –4 token, 4 surprise witness tokens, 
and 4 perjury tokens)

12 Alibi Tokens
13 Hit Tokens
48 Normal Favor Tokens (12 corp, 12 political, 12 soci-
ety, and 12 street)
45 Baggage Tokens
18 Trauma Counters (5 –3 VP tokens and 13 –1 VP 
tokens)
6 Haas Tokens
6 Jinteki Tokens
12 Conspiracy Tokens
10 Warrant Markers (2 per detective)
5 Dropship Pass Tokens
15 NPC Status Tokens (3 per detective)
24 NPC Favor Tokens (3 Captain Beckmann tokens, 
3 Chairman Haas tokens, 3 Daniel tokens, 3 Director 
Hiro tokens, 3 Kate tokens, 3 Lena tokens, 3 Mr. Li 
tokens, and 3 Sara tokens)
1 Lily Lockwell Marker
1 Jimmy the Snitch Marker
210 Twilight Cards (44 Caprice cards, 42 Floyd cards, 
42 Louis cards, 42 Rachel cards, and 40 Raymond 
cards)
56 Plot Cards (12 Caprice cards, 12 Floyd cards, 12 
Louis cards, 12 Rachel cards, and 8 Raymond cards)
41 Event Cards (23 general cards, 18 murder-specific 
cards)
12 Hunch Cards (6 guilty, 6 innocent)
11 Special Cards (1 Caprice card, 3 Floyd cards, 1 Louis 
card, 1 Rachel card, 5 Raymond cards)
Component Overview
The following sections briefly describe and identify the 
components of Android.
Game Map
The game map depicts the twin cities of New Angeles and 
Heinlein, as well as the space elevator (commonly known 
as the “Beanstalk”) that connects them together. This 
area is known as the Greater New Angeles region, and 
the detectives travel throughout it during the game. The 
game map is also used to track the progress the characters 
make on uncovering the conspiracy behind the murder. 
See “Game Map Breakdown” on page 44 for a complete 
discussion of the game map. Note that one puzzle piece 
is glued to the game map. This is normal and removing it 
will damage the game.
First Player Marker
This marker is used to indicate which player acts first 
during a game round. Unlike many other games, the first 
player marker does not necessarily pass to a new player at 
the end of the round (see “Changing the First Player” on 
page 15 to see how the first player marker moves).
Scene of the Crime Marker
This marker is used to indicate the location on the game 
map where the murder took place.
Day Marker
This marker is placed on the calendar on the game map 
and is used to track the passage of time in the game. Once 
two weeks have passed, the game ends and the case is 
closed.

Puzzle Pieces
These puzzle pieces are divided into three piles and 
are used to uncover the conspiracy behind the murder. 
The three types of puzzle pieces are shift pieces, favor 
pieces, and baggage pieces. Baggage pieces are the most 
valuable, while shift pieces are the least valuable. See 
“Uncovering the Conspiracy” on page 21 for a complete 
description of them.
Vehicle Rulers
In Android, the detectives have flight-capable vehicles 
at their disposal, and do not need to follow roads. These 
rulers are used to determine the maximum distance that a 
detective can travel in a single move.
Detective Sheets, Figures, 
and Twilight Markers
Each player receives one detective sheet and one cardboard 
detective figure depicting his character. The detective 
sheet and twilight marker are used to track the detective’s 
twilight state (see “Playing Twilight Cards” on page 25), 
while the figure is used to indicate where on the game map 
the detective is located.
Tip Sheets
These sheets contain helpful hints and strategies for each 
detective. On the back of each sheet is a list of advice 
on how to play against the other detectives. Beginners 
should use these sheets until they are familiar with all five 
detectives.
Hero Markers
These markers are used to track a variety of things in the 
game. Whenever an event related to only one detective 
needs to be shown on the game map or elsewhere, a hero 
marker for that detective is used.
Murder Sheets
Each murder sheet represents a different murder that the 
detectives can investigate. See “Murder Sheet Breakdown” 
on page 45 for a complete description.
Shift Piece
Favor Piece
Baggage Piece

Physical leads show a picture of a thumbprint and repre-
sent forensic, genetic, or ballistic evidence.
Document leads show a picture of a security camera and 
represent evidence gained through video, electronic, or 
paper records.
Evidence Tokens
These tokens are gained by following up leads on the game 
map, and are placed on the suspect sheets to determine the 
murderer. See “Placing Evidence” on page 19 for a com-
plete description.
Alibi Tokens
These tokens represent key witnesses who come forward 
to testify to the innocence of one of the suspects.
Hit Tokens
Although there are several suspects, only one of them is re-
ally the murderer. The others are important witnesses to the 
crime. These tokens represent the danger that a particular 
suspect is in of being killed by the real murderer. Should 
a suspect ever have three hit tokens on him, he is instantly 
killed. See “Hits” on page 33 for a complete description.
Suspect Sheets
Each suspect sheet represents one of the people suspected 
of committing the murder. The players place evidence and 
alibis on these sheets to determine which suspect was the 
murderer.
Time Sheet and Marker
This reference sheet is passed around the table as the ac-
tive player changes and – with the marker – doubles as 
a convenient way to track the time that a detective has 
remaining for the day.
Lead Markers
These markers are placed on the game map to indicate 
locations where vital evidence relating to the case or the 
conspiracy may be found. There are three types of leads.
Testimony leads each show a picture of one of the six 
suspects and represent evidence gained from the testimony 
of a key witness.
Normal Evidence
Suprise Witness

Favor Tokens
For detectives, favors are as good as money. Favors can be 
gained and spent in various ways and places on the game 
map. There are four normal types of favors:
Corp favors
 represent influence in the business world.
Political favors
 represent influence in the political 
arena.
Society favors
 represent influence among the upper 
crust of society.
Street favors
 represent influence with the common 
man and the criminal underworld.
Baggage Tokens
As the detectives try to resolve their 
personal problems, baggage tokens 
are used to track how well they’re 
doing. See “Plots” on page 29 for a 
complete description.
Trauma Counters
Sometimes, bad things happen to good 
people. These counters represent those 
bad things. A detective might get 
beaten up, demoted, or suffer any num-
ber of hardships. Each trauma counter 
a detective has at the end of the game 
costs –1 VP. Three –1 VP counters may 
be traded in for one –3 VP counter if 
more trauma counters are needed.
Warrant Markers
Certain locations on the 
game map are more dif-
ficult to enter than others. 
When a detective places a 
warrant on such a loca-
tion, he can avoid being 
delayed there.
Dropship Pass Tokens
Dropships are small, maneuverable cargo 
spaceships available for police use. These 
tokens represent passes that can be used to 
have a dropship pick up a detective and drop 
him off anywhere on the game map.
NPC Status and Favor Tokens
There are certain people in each detective’s life who are 
important to him. These people are referred to as non-play-
er characters, or NPCs for short. Each NPC has an NPC 
status marker that indicates whether the NPC is alive or 
dead. In addition, certain NPCs can share their influence 
with the detectives. These NPCs have NPC favor tokens to 
represent this.
Jinteki, Haas, and 
Conspiracy Tokens
These tokens are used to keep track of extra victory points 
that a player has earned through the use of a location abil-
ity or by uncovering pieces of the conspiracy (see “Uncov-
ering the Conspiracy” on page 21 for further details).
Lily Lockwell and Jimmy 
the Snitch Markers
These markers represent two important people in the 
Greater New Angeles Region who can help (or hinder) the 
detectives as they move around the map.
Jinteki Token
Haas Token
Token
Corp
Political
Society
Street
NPC Favor Tokens
NPC Status Token

Twilight Cards
Each detective has two decks of twilight cards – a dark 
deck and a light deck – devoted exclusively to him. A de-
tective’s dark deck contains events that hinder him, while 
his light deck contains events that help him. Collectively, 
these two decks of cards are referred to as a detective’s 
twilight cards.
Plot Cards
Each detective has a deck of plot cards that detail the 
personal problems that may spring up in his life during the 
investigation. Each detective has three plots (exception: 
Raymond has two plots) that are marked with different 
colors. See “Plots” on page 29 for a complete description.
Event Cards
These cards represent events that take place in the Greater 
New Angeles region during the investigation. Some of 
them, referred to as general events, may take place during 
any murder. Others, referred to as murder-specific events, 
may only take place during a particular murder (“Evil at 
the Estates,” for example).
Hunch Cards
These cards represent each detective’s hunches about 
which suspects are guilty and which are innocent.
Special Cards
These cards are used to represent special traits and rules 
for each detective. See each detective’s hero sheet and tip 
sheet for complete details.
Lily Lockwell
Light Cards
Dark Cards
Generic Events
Murder-Specific Events
Innocent Hunches
Guilty Hunches
Louis’s Mood Card
Raymond’s Memory Cards
Rachel’s Money Card
Caprice’s Sanity Card
Floyd’s Directive 
Cards

Y
esterday marked the 15th anniversary of the signing 
of the treaty of Heinlein, which brought an end 
to one of the bloodiest wars in history, as well as 
the first to extend beyond the Earth’s atmosphere. The 
treaty is on display to the public at the Heinlein museum, 
located inside the primary dock of Starport Kaguya.
Setup

Setup
To prepare a game of Android, carefully follow the steps 
Game Map and Choose Murder: 
Unfold the game 
map and place it in the middle of the table. Then, either 
shuffle up the murder sheets and choose one at random 
or (if the players agree) select a murder that everyone 
wishes to play. First-time players should choose the 
Evil at the Estates murder. Place it at the end of the 
table as shown in the setup diagram. Take the scene of 
the crime marker and place it at the location listed as 
the scene of the crime on the murder sheet (at Rockvil 
Estates, for example, for the Evil at the Estates mur-
der), and place the day marker on the first day of the 
first week on the calendar (the space with no symbol). 
Finally, take the Lily Lockwell and Jimmy the Snitch 
markers and place them at the locations listed for week 
one on the murder sheet (at Rockvil Estates (G2) for 
Lily and The Old War Memorial (B1) for Jimmy, if 
playing the Evil at the Estates murder).
Select Suspects: 
Starting from the top of the murder 
sheet and working downwards, count out a number of 
suspects equal to one more than the number of players. 
Find the suspect sheets corresponding to those suspects 
and place them next to the murder sheet. These are the 
suspects in play for this game. For instance, if three 
players are playing the “Evil at the Estates” murder, 
the suspects in play are Eve 5VA3TC, Noise, Thomas 
Haas, and Vinnie the Strangler.
Select Detectives: 
Each player next selects a detective, 
either at random or by mutual agreement. Give each 
player his detective’s sheet, tip sheet, cardboard figure, 
twilight cards (separated into light and dark decks), 
plot cards, special cards, hero markers, vehicle ruler, 
warrant markers, and one twilight marker. In addition, 
give each player the NPC status and favor markers 
corresponding to the NPCs shown on the back of his 
detective’s sheet. Turn the NPC status markers so that 
the sides shown on the back of the detective sheet are 
faceup. Each player then places his detective figure 
at the starting location listed on his detective sheet. 
Finally, each player places his twilight marker on the 
center space of the twilight track on his detective sheet.
Place Starting Leads: 
Take the testimony lead mark-
ers corresponding to the active suspects and place 
them at the locations listed by their pictures on the 
murder sheet. Then, each player takes the physical and 
the document lead markers referred to on his detec-
tive sheet and places them on the listed locations. Each 

physical and document lead marker has the color of its 
starting location shown on it, so make sure to place the 
correct ones. For instance, if Raymond is being played, 
his player places a blue physical lead on the A+ Ath-
letic Club and a green document lead on the Root.
Prepare Evidence Pool:
5.	
 Shuffle the evidence markers 
and place them facedown in a pile near the board as 
shown in the setup diagram.
Prepare Token Banks: 
6.	
Place all of the following 
tokens on or near the following locations on the game 
map.
	
Token Type	
Location
	
Corp Favors	
Melange Mining (G7)
	
Political Favors	
City Hall (A2)
	
Society Favors	
Levy University (E1) 
	
Street Favors	
Eastside Tenements (L3)
	
Alibis	
Order of Sol (F8)
	
Humanity Labor (H1)
	
Trauma	
Starlight Crusade (D1)
	
Dropship Passes	
NAPD (I3)
	
Baggage	
Castle Club (F4)
Note: Locations are normally referred to with game map 
coordinates in parentheses after their name. By using the 
map grid along the edge of the game map, players may use 
these coordinates to easily find a location.
Prepare Puzzle Pieces: 
7.	
Turn the puzzle pieces face-
down, separate them by type, then randomly stack each 
type. Place the three stacks facedown near the conspir-
acy portion of the game map, with the shift pieces on 
the left, the favor pieces in the middle, and the baggage 
pieces on the right. Place one hero marker for each 
detective near the pile of shift pieces.
Deal Out Hunches: 
8.	
Separate the hunch cards into 
innocent (blue) and guilty (red) hunches. Remove any 
hunch cards that correspond to suspects not being used 
this game, then shuffle the remaining guilty hunches 
and deal one facedown to each player. Repeat with the 
innocent hunches. Players should be very careful not to 
let other players see their hunch cards. Note: It does not 
matter if a player receives both the guilty and the inno-
cent hunch for the same suspect. That detective is said 
to be “obsessed” with that suspect. See “Obsession” on 
page 39 for a complete description.
Determine Starting Plots: 
9.	
Each player takes the start 
cards for each of his three plots and shuffles them, se-
lecting one at random. (Exceptions: Raymond only has 
two plots, and Caprice should not include the start card 

for her “Descent into Madness” plot when making the 
random selection.) The selected plot is that player’s plot 
for week one of the game.
Prepare Twilight Decks: 
10.	
Each player shuffles his 
light and dark decks separately, then places his dark 
deck on the indicated space between the Earth and 
the Moon on the game map, and his light deck next to 
his detective sheet. Each player draws two cards from 
his light deck and one card from the dark deck of the 
player on his left.
Prepare Event Decks: 
11.	
Shuffle the general event deck 
and place it on the indicated space between the Earth 
and the Moon. Then, select the three murder-specific 
event cards corresponding to the murder being played, 
shuffle them, and choose one at random. Without look-
ing at it, place it facedown in the indicated space next 
to the board and return the other two cards to the box 
without looking at them, along with the other murder-
specific event cards.
Select First Player: 
12.	
The player who has read the most 
science fiction books goes first. If the players can’t 
agree who this is, select one player at random to go 
first. The player chosen to go first places one of his 
hero markers on the scene of the crime marker and then 
takes the first player token, the time sheet, and the time 
marker.
Hero Specific Setup: 
13.	
Each player performs the fol-
lowing actions, according to which detective he has 
selected.
Caprice Nisei: 
Place one warrant token on Jinteki. 
Place Caprice’s Sanity card in play with one of her hero 
markers at the “+0” mark.
Floyd 2X3A7C: 
Place one warrant token on Haas-Bior-
oid. Floyd gains one Director Haas favor. Place Floyd’s 
three Directive cards in play.
Louis Blaine: 
Louis gains two Mr. Li favors and one 
Sara favor. Place Louis’s Mood card in play with the 
“Louis is in a Bad Mood” side up.
Rachel Beckmann: 
Draw two extra twilight cards. 
They may be from Rachel’s light deck or any other 
player’s dark deck, in any combination. Place Rachel’s 
Money card in play with one of Rachel’s hero markers 
at the $2,000 mark.
Raymond Flint: 
Raymond gains one dropship pass 
token. Place Raymond’s “Wrapped Up in Himself” card 
in play. Shuffle his four Memory cards and deal one out 
to each other player, returning any extra Memory cards 
to the box without looking at them.
The game is now ready to begin.
The Game Round
Android is played over a series of game rounds, or simply 
“rounds.” Each round represents the passing of one day. 
During each round, each player receives a turn in which to 
perform actions. The first player is the one who takes his 
turn first. After each player has had a turn, the day ends and 
any end of day events occur. The game round is in this way 
divided into two phases:
Daytime
End of Day
During the Daytime Phase, each player receives a cer-
tain amount of Time to spend following up leads, moving 
around the game map, and otherwise pursuing their goals. 
Once a player has spent all of his Time, his turn immediate-
ly ends. Once every player has had a turn, the phase ends.

During the End of Day Phase, the players advance the day 
marker, then consult the calendar to see what end of day 
events are performed. Finally, the first player marker is 
passed, if necessary. Afterwards, a new round begins.
Once the players finish the final day of week two, the 
game ends, the murderer is determined, and final scoring 
is done. See “Closing the Case” on page 36 for a complete 
description.
The sections that follow describe each phase in detail, giv-
ing an overview of the game flow and describing how dif-
ferent sections of the game work together. Detailed rules 
for certain mechanics, such as movement and following up 
leads, follow afterwards.
Daytime Phase
During the Daytime Phase, each player receives a certain 
amount of Time (usually six) to spend in pursuit of his 
goals.
The first player begins by placing the time marker on the 
“6” mark on the time sheet. This indicates the amount 
of Time he has to spend this round. (Exception: Floyd 
receives 1 extra Time if his “Third Directive” card is in 
play. Other detectives may also receive more or less Time 
depending on circumstances and cards in play.) The first 
player spends his Time, performing one action at a time, 
until it is all gone or he does not wish to spend any more. 
He then passes the time sheet and time marker clockwise 
to the player to his left, who takes his own turn.
The actions a player may take are described below. A 
player may take a given action as many times as he desires 
during his turn unless otherwise noted.
Move to a New Location
For 1 Time, a player may move his detective to a new lo-
cation on the game map. A detective is limited in how far 
he can move by his vehicle ruler, as described in “Move-
ment” on page 15. Entering either a ritzy or seedy location 
allows a player to draw a free twilight card. See “Entering 
Seedy and Ritzy Locations” on page 17.
Important Terms
While reading this rulebook, it will be helpful to know the 
precise mechanical definitions of the following terms:
(A1)–(L8): Map coordinates listed for locations on the game 
map. Using the grid along the edge of the map, players can 
more easily find specific locations.
Beanstalk: A space elevator in the city of New Angeles. On the 
game map, it is represented by five linked locations and is the 
only way to travel from the Earth to the Moon, other than with 
a dropship pass.
Cancel: When an action is canceled, the action does not occur, 
and any cost that was paid to perform it is lost.
Climax: The last two days of the case. During this time, leads 
that are followed up are discarded rather than moved.
Dark Shift: Moving a detective’s twilight marker to the right 
by one space, usually to pay for a light card. ‘Completely dark 
shifting’ moves the twilight marker all the way to the right.
District: Large areas of the map indicated by the color of the 
map grid along the edge.
File: Spaces on the suspect sheets where evidence is placed. 
There are three files per sheet – one for each type of evidence 
(document, physical, and testimony).
Game Round: During a game round, each player receives a 
turn (this is called the Daytime Phase), and then the End of Day 
Phase is carried out.
Happy Ending: Any plot ending with a VP value of 1 or more.
Light Shift: Moving a detective’s twilight marker to the left 
by one space, usually to pay for a dark card. ‘Completely light 
shifting’ moves the twilight marker all the way to the left.
Location Quality: Indicated by the shape of a location’s sym-
bol. Locations can be ritzy (diamond), normal (circle), or seedy 
(triangle).
Location Type: Indicated by the color of the location’s symbol 
and border. Locations can be business (blue), civic (green), 
nightlife (purple), religious (yellow), or residential (red).
Major Location: A location on the game map that is identified 
with a picture as well as a name, such as the NAPD (I3). Each 
major location has a special location ability that detectives at 
that location can use.
Minor Location: A location on the game map that is identified 
with only a name, such as Tony’s Flophouse (J3).
NPC: A non-player character. A member of the game’s sup-
porting cast, usually connected to a specific detective.
Sacrifice: When something is sacrificed, it is discarded with-
out its normal effect taking place. A given item may only be 
sacrificed towards one effect. 
Sad Ending: Any plot ending with a VP value of –1 or less.
Time: The smallest amount of time an action can take a detec-
tive to perform. A detective normally receives 6 Time per turn.
Trait: Bold, italicized words on cards that have no inherent 
game effects, but which may be referenced by other cards.
Turn: Each player receives one turn per game round.
Twilight Cost: The amount that a detective must light or dark 
shift to pay for playing a twilight card.

Follow up a Lead
If a player’s detective is in the same location as a testi-
mony, physical, or document lead, he may spend 1 Time 
to follow up that lead, as described under “Following Up 
Leads” on page 18. Following up a lead lets a player either 
place a piece of evidence on a suspect or uncover a piece 
of the conspiracy.
Draw or Discard a 
Twilight Card
By spending 1 Time, a player with fewer than six twilight 
cards in his hand (or fewer than seven, in Raymond’s case) 
may draw either one light card from his light deck or one 
dark card from any other player’s dark deck (although not 
from the dark decks of detectives who are not playing). 
Although light and dark cards can be drawn for free when 
entering ritzy and seedy locations, sometimes it is incon-
venient or unwise to do so.
Alternatively, a player may spend 1 Time to discard a light 
or dark card from his hand without playing it. The card is 
then discarded faceup to the bottom of the deck it came 
from. Although this is never a desirable course of action, 
it is sometimes necessary, since a player cannot draw any 
more cards if his hand is full.
If a player draws the last card in a given deck (revealing 
the faceup discarded cards that have been placed on the 
bottom of that deck), he immediately turns the discarded 
cards facedown and shuffles them to create a new deck.
Important Note: Raymond’s Memory cards are not part of 
a player’s hand and do not count against the hand limit, nor 
can they be discarded or looked at by effects that target a 
player’s hand.
Play a Light Card
By spending 1 Time, a player may play a light card from 
his hand, although he must still pay the usual twilight cost, 
as described in “Playing Twilight Cards” on page 25. 
Note that dark cards do not cost Time to play, since they 
are played during another player’s turn.

Get a Jump on the Case
If a player’s detective is in the same location as the scene 
of the crime marker, he may pay 1 Time to get a jump on 
the other detectives on the case. To do so, he removes the 
hero marker that is currently on the scene of the crime 
marker and replaces it with one of his own. If his hero 
marker is still in place at the end of the phase, he then be-
comes the new first player, as described in “Changing the 
First Player” on page 15.
Use a Location Ability
(Varies)
If a player’s detective is in a major location, he may use 
that location’s ability. However, sometimes a detective 
must do more than simply spend time to use a location’s 
ability. All costs listed on a location must be paid to use 
that location’s ability.
Important: A player may only use a given location’s abil-
ity once per round.
Example 1: Floyd is at City Hall, so he spends 2 Time to gain 
one political favor. Because he cannot use City Hall’s ability 
more than once a round, he must wait until next round if he 
wishes to purchase another political favor.
Example 2: Floyd is at Wyldside, so he spends one society favor 
and 1 Time to purchase one good baggage, which he places on 
his plot.

In addition to the graphical depiction of each location’s 
ability on the game map, each major location’s ability is 
described in full on the back of this rulebook.
Event-Based Actions
(Varies)
In addition to the actions listed above, some event cards 
grant temporary abilities to certain places on the map. Of-
ten, these abilities are only available to the first player to use 
them, after which they expire. See “Events” on page 32 for 
complete details.
Example: The “Kate says she wants to testify” general event 
allows the first player who spends 3 Time at the Old War 
Memorial to place an alibi on any one suspect.
End of Day Phase
During the End of Day Phase, the players first advance the 
day marker by one day. Once this is done, any end of day 
events shown on the previous day are carried out. Once the 
end of day events are resolved, a new first player is deter-
mined. Finally, a new round begins.
Note: The final two days of the game are known as the 
climax, and are treated specially (see “Climax” below).
End of Day Events
The various end of day events that may appear on the cal-
endar are listed below.
General Event
The top card of the general event deck is 
drawn and resolved as described under 
“Events” on page 32.
Specific Event
The card chosen from the murder-specific 
event deck is turned faceup and resolved as 
described under “Events” on page 32.
Plot Resolution
Plots are resolved as described under “Re-
solving Plots” on page 30.
Changing the 
First Player
After the end of day events are resolved, the players look 
at the scene of the crime, and the detective whose hero 
marker was last placed there becomes the new first player. 
The first player marker is passed to that player immediate-
ly. A player may place his detective’s hero marker on the 
scene of the crime by going to the scene of the crime and 
getting a jump on the other detectives, as described under 
“Get a Jump on the Case” on page 13.
Climax
The final two days of the game are the cli-
max. During these two days, leads that are 
followed up are not moved to a new location 
(see page 18). Instead, they are removed from 
the game map entirely and returned to the 
box. This represents the increasing scarcity of 
new evidence for the investigation.
Starting a New Round
Once all End of Day Phase steps are finished, if the second 
week has not ended, the time sheet and marker are passed 
to the first player and a new round begins, starting with the 
Daytime Phase.
If, on the other hand, the second week has ended, the game 
is over. See “Closing the Case” on page 36 for a complete 
description of how to determine the winner.
Movement
A player may move his detective from one location to an-
other during his turn by spending 1 Time and moving his 
detective to any new location within reach of his vehicle. 
To see if a location is in reach of the detective’s vehicle, 
place one end of the detective’s vehicle ruler in the colored 
shape that represents the detective’s current location. If 
the other end of the vehicle ruler reaches, or reaches past, 
the colored shape that represents the location the player 
wishes to move to, then the move is legal. The diagram and 
example on page 16 demonstrate.
Note again that the destination end of the vehicle ruler 
does not have to fall exactly on the destination location – 
the detective may move less than the ruler’s full reach. 
However, if the ruler cannot reach a given location, the de-

Example of Movement
In this example, Floyd and Caprice are at the Old War 
Memorial (B1) and wish to move to Weyland Real Estate 
(B3).
Measuring, Floyd finds that his vehicle ruler doesn’t 
quite reach Weyland Real Estate, so he is unable to move 
directly there by spending 1 Time. He will have to stop 
somewhere else (such as City Hall) on the way.
Caprice, on the other hand, is just able to reach Weyland 
Real Estate with her vehicle ruler, as it is slightly faster 
than Floyd’s. Because her ruler reaches, she can move to 
Weyland Real Estate from the Old War Memorial for 1 
Time.
Looking at a comparison of Floyd and Caprice’s vehicle 
rulers from above the board, their respective reaches 
look like this.
T
he Beanstalk opened in ‘35 after ten years of 
grueling construction. It was a feat of engineering 
similar in scope to building the Hoover dam. 
Officially named “the New Angeles Space Elevator,” 
it gained its nickname almost before the blueprints 
were dry, mostly due to the workers’ efforts to tease 
the designer, Jack Weyland. “Jack’s Beanstalk” now 
generates approximately 30% of New Angeles’ economy.

tective cannot move there. He will have to stop somewhere 
closer to his original location on the way to his ultimate 
destination.
Detectives must always move to and stop on locations. 
They cannot simply “float” on the board in the space be-
tween the various locations. 
Detectives cannot move between the Earth and the Moon 
except by using the Beanstalk (see page 17) or through the 
use of a dropship pass (see page 18).
Important: When moving, players must always pause 
after each movement between a pair of locations, to give 
other players a chance to react to the move with cards or 
other effects.
The Beanstalk, the 
Earth, and the Moon
Although the detectives possess vehicles that are flight- 
capable, they are not equipped for travel in space. Detec-
tives cannot move directly from the Earth to the Moon 
using their vehicle ruler, even if the ruler can reach across 
the gap shown on the map. The distance from the Earth 
to the Moon is not to scale with the rest of the map, and is 
actually far greater than it appears. 
In order to travel from the Earth to the Moon (or vice 
versa), detectives must use the Beanstalk, the space eleva-
tor that serves as the focus for trade between Earth and 
other bodies in the solar system.
The Beanstalk consists of five locations stretching between 
the Earth and the Moon. They are the Root, the Midway, 
Castle Club, the Challenger Memorial Ferry, and Starport 
Kaguya. The two ends of the Beanstalk are the Root (on 
the Earth) and Starport Kaguya (on the Moon).
To move using the Beanstalk, a detective must enter at one 
of its ends. If the detective is on Earth, he must move to 
the Root. If the detective is on the Moon, he must move 
to Starport Kaguya. Once he has entered the Beanstalk, 
a detective may move along its length by paying 1 Time 
to travel to each successive location along the line on the 
game map that defines the Root’s path. For instance, while 
at Starport Kaguya, a detective could spend 1 Time to 
move to the Challenger Memorial Ferry. A detective may 
freely reverse direction while moving along the Beanstalk, 
but may only leave the Beanstalk from one of its ends. 
For example, a detective at Castle Club may spend 1 Time 
to move to either the Challenger Memorial Ferry or the 
Midway, regardless of which direction he originally moved 
from, but may not move directly to any other location, 
because he can only leave the Beanstalk via one of its 
endpoints.
Entering Seedy and 
Ritzy Locations
A detective’s mental state can be influenced by his sur-
roundings. A location’s quality is indicated by the shape 
of the symbol on it. There are three levels of quality: ritzy 
(diamond), normal (circle), and seedy (triangle). When a 
detective enters a ritzy location, that detective’s player 
may draw one light card from his light deck for free, as-
suming his hand isn’t full. Similarly, when a detective 
enters a seedy location, that detective’s player may draw 
one dark card from any other player’s dark deck for free, 
assuming his hand isn’t full. These free draws are allowed 
once each time a detective enters a seedy or ritzy location, 
even if he has already traveled through that location earlier 
in the round.
Ritzy Location
A detective entering this 
location may draw a light 
Seedy Location
A detective entering this 
location may draw a dark 

If a player draws the last card in a given deck (revealing 
faceup discards previously placed on the bottom of that 
deck), he immediately turns the discarded cards facedown 
and shuffles them to create a new deck.
Location Types
Different types of locations on the game map are indicated 
by different colors. There are five types of locations: Re-
ligious (yellow), Civic (green), Residential (red), Business 
(blue), and Nightlife (purple). When leads move, they must 
be moved to a new location of the same type, and some 
twilight cards reference a location’s type, but location types 
do not otherwise affect a detective’s movement. A loca-
tion’s quality is unrelated to its type.
Restricted Locations
Some locations require a warrant to enter without stirring 
up trouble. If a detective enters a restricted location that he 
does not have a warrant placed on, he must spend 3 Time 
instead of 1.
Using Dropship Passes
A player who possesses a dropship pass token may spend 
it when moving his detective to a new location in order to 
ignore the normal limitations of his vehicle. The detective 
signals a dropship, which picks up both him and his vehicle, 
and moves them to any location in either city, anywhere on 
the map, including any location on the Beanstalk. Doing this 
still requires the player to spend 1 Time to move, and is oth-
erwise considered to be a normal move. The spent dropship 
pass is returned to the pile at the NAPD (I3).
Example: Floyd is at Adams Garden, but really needs to get 
back to Haas-Bioroid in a hurry, so he spends one of his dropship 
passes (returning it to the stockpile near the NAPD) and uses 1 
Time. This allows him to move anywhere on the board, regardless 
of distance, so he moves directly to Haas-Bioroid.
Following 
Up Leads
By spending 1 Time while his detective is in the same 
location as a testimony lead, physical lead, or document 
lead, a player may follow up that lead, investigating the lo-
cation, trying to figure out what new clues might be there. 
This process works the same for testimony, physical, and 
document leads. 
Example of Moving a Lead
In this example, Floyd has just followed up a document 
lead at the Old War Memorial (B1). Caprice, as the play-
er to his right, must now move the lead to a new location 
of the same type (i.e. another green location).
Caprice cannot move the lead to any location in her 
current district, so the two civic (green) locations in the 
yellow district are out. She also cannot move the lead 
anywhere that already has a lead, so she cannot move it to 
Thurgun’s Free Clinic (F2).
Looking at the map, Caprice sees that she has the follow-
ing options available, and decides to move the lead to the 
NAPD (I3), since she wants to go there to get a dropship 
pass anyhow.

When a player follows up a lead, he hands the lead token 
from the location to the player on his right, who moves 
it to a new location (see “Moving Leads,” below). Then 
the lead-following player decides whether to use the lead 
to place evidence on a suspect, or to uncover a piece of 
the conspiracy (see “Placing Evidence” on page 19 and 
“Uncovering the Conspiracy” on page 21).
Note: Although the lead can normally be moved simulta-
neously with placing evidence or uncovering the conspir-
acy, sometimes the order can make a difference. In such 
cases, the lead is moved before anything else occurs.
Moving Leads
Once a lead is followed up, the trail of clues points to a 
new location, to which the lead marker is moved. The 
new location is chosen by the player to the right – that is, 
counter-clockwise around the table – of the player whose 
detective followed up the lead. That player who moves the 
lead marker may place it on any new location of his choice, 
but with following restrictions.
The lead marker must move to a new location. It cannot 
remain where it is.
The lead marker must move to a new location 
of the 
same type as its previous location. A location’s type is 
represented by its color on the map, so if a lead marker 
was on a yellow (religious) location, it must be moved 
to a new yellow (religious) location. The lead’s new 
location does not have to be of the same quality (ritzy, 
seedy, or normal) as the previous location.
The lead marker cannot be placed on any location that 
already has a lead marker on it.
The lead marker cannot be placed on any location that 
is in the same district as the detective whose player is 
placing the lead unless there are no other legal loca-
tions where it can be placed. That is, the player placing 
the lead in a new location can’t put it too close to his 
own detective.
Note: Remember that the Beanstalk is its own district.
Following Up Leads 
During the Climax
The final two days of the game are known as the climax, 
and represent the time when the case is coming to a close. 
When a lead is followed up during the climax, it is not 
moved. Instead, it is returned to the box and is out of the 
game. This represents trails of evidence going cold as the 
case comes to a close. Although it is unlikely, it is possible 

for the players to follow up all the leads on the game map 
during the climax, leaving none left on the board. If this 
happens, the players continue with the game; they simply 
need to find other activities to keep their detectives busy 
for the rest of the game.
Placing Evidence
Placing evidence is one of the two 
actions a player can take when fol-
lowing up a lead. Placing evidence 
allows a player to put an evidence 
token on a suspect in order to 
help prove that suspect’s guilt or 
innocence. Most evidence tokens 
bear a number ranging from 5 
(particularly damning evidence) 
to –4 (particularly exonerating 
evidence). When the game ends, 
the suspect with the highest postive 
total of evidence is the murderer. 
(see “Determining the Murderer” 
on page 36).
To place evidence, a player who 
has just followed up a lead simply 
announces that he is doing so, and 
draws an evidence token from the 
pile of evidence tokens near the 
board.
He then looks at the evidence token in secret and decides 
which suspect he wants to place it on. By placing evidence 
on a suspect, the player hopes to eventually prove that 
suspect either guilty or innocent, as directed by his hunch 
cards. 
An evidence token may be placed on any suspect in play 
that the player chooses. (Exception: Suspects who have 
been killed may not have evidence placed on them.) Each 
suspect sheet has three areas, each known as a file, which 
correspond to the three different types of leads. Each 
evidence token must be placed on the file type that cor-
responds to the lead that generated it. In other words, a 
player who follows up a physical lead (represented by a 
thumbprint) must place any evidence from that lead in 
some suspect’s physical evidence file (which is marked 
with a thumbprint as well). A player cannot, for instance, 
follow up a testimony lead and place evidence in a sus-
pect’s document file.
An evidence token is normally placed facedown, but a 
player may choose to reveal it by placing it faceup. Once 
revealed, a piece of evidence always stays revealed unless 

Uncovering the 
Investigating which groups conspired in the murder is 
the second of the two options a player can choose when 
following up a lead. This is done by placing puzzle pieces 
(or simply, pieces) on the board to create links between 
prominent groups in the Greater New Angeles area and the 
conspiracy responsible for the murder. 
There are three different piles of puzzle pieces found on 
the game board. In order of least valuable to most valuable, 
they are the shift piece pile, favor piece pile, and baggage 
piece pile. As puzzle pieces are turned up and assembled 
in the puzzle area of the game board, the lines on the 
pieces create contiguous lines between the groups located 
around the outside of the area and the conspiracy itself, 
found at the center of the area. Each unbroken line from a 
group to the conspiracy links that group to the murder plot.
To investigate the conspiracy, the player announces that he 
is doing so, then chooses one of the two options described 
Reveal Information: The player draws and adds a piece to 
the puzzle, in the attempt to create links between groups 
and the conspiracy.
Dig Deeper: The player lays groundwork, in hopes of un-
covering even more valuable pieces – and links – later on. 
(See “Digging Deeper” on page 25).
a card or other game effect says otherwise. Revealing evi-
dence is usually a bad move, but it can be useful in bluffs, 
deals, and other strategies.
Tip: Players should be very cautious when placing evi-
dence to avoid giving away what’s on their hunch cards. If 
the other players figure out which suspect a player is trying 
to make guilty, they can arrange for that suspect to be 
killed using hits (see “Hits” on page 33), or simply gang up 
to ensure a different suspect winds up guilty instead.
Strong and Weak 
Evidence
Different types of evidence are more or less effective 
against the various suspects. For example, no one wants 
to testify against Vinnie the Strangler, so his testimony 
evidence file is found at the bottom of his suspect sheet 
and is labeled “weak.” On the other hand, Vinnie doesn’t 
understand the intricacies of legalese and paperwork, so 
his document evidence file is found at the top of his sus-
pect sheet and is labeled “strong.” Obviously, evidence that 
is strong against a suspect has the greatest effect at the end 
of the game, while evidence that is weak against a suspect 
has the least effect at the end of the game. The highest-
value evidence (i.e., the most positive evidence token) in a 
suspect’s weak evidence file is discarded when the case is 
closed. Similarly, the lowest-value evidence (i.e., the most 
negative evidence token) in a suspect’s strong evidence 
file is discarded when the case is closed. This process is 
described in more detail in “Closing the Case” on page 36.
Unusual Evidence
In addition to normal evidence, there are two types of 
special evidence that a detective may uncover – surprise 
witnesses and perjuries. Both are placed on suspect sheets 
facedown, like normal evidence, and both may be revealed 
when placed if the player wishes to do so. 
A surprise witness serves as a –5 (very in-
nocent) piece of evidence. 
Perjury tokens are more unusual. For each 
perjury token on a suspect, one alibi or 
surprise witness on that suspect has its 
value changed from –5 (very innocent) to 
+5 (very guilty), as the witness is caught in 
a damaging lie. Alibis, surprise witnesses, 
and perjuries are explained in more depth 
on page 34.
The 
puzzle area
Groups

Example of Revealing Information
In this example, Raymond has just followed up a lead 
and decided to reveal information. His hero marker 
is next to the pile of favor pieces, so he draws the top 
puzzle piece from that pile, then moves his hero marker 
next to the least valuable pile of puzzle pieces, which in 
this case is the shift piece pile. 
After his hero marker is adjusted, he claims the benefit 
of the puzzle piece he drew, which is a normal favor of 
his choice. He chooses to gain a political favor.
Next, he looks at the back of his puzzle piece to see if he 
gains any bonuses. Sadly, it is an ordinary piece, so he 
does not.
Raymond must now add the puzzle piece to the puzzle, 
growing out from the pieces that are already there and 
extending at least one line in the process.
Looking at the puzzle, he finds that he can add his piece 
to the puzzle in any of four places, one of which has 
two legal positions it can be in. However, since he has a 
number of political favors, he chooses to place his piece 
in the lower right position, hoping to link Mayor Wells 
to the conspiracy later on, which would make his politi-
cal favors worth VPs at the end of the game.
A
s the terraforming of Mars has progressed, the 
settlers have split into different clans, each laying 
claim to one of the major habitation domes on 
the planet. The clans identify their members by means 
of small tattoos near the eyes, and are currently 
locked in a civil war for control of the planet.

Revealing Information
When a player reveals information, he draws the top puzzle 
piece from the pile of puzzle pieces that his hero marker is 
beside. 
After drawing his puzzle piece, he adjusts the hero mark-
ers near the puzzle pieces – sometimes even those of other 
players – according to the following rules.
The player moves his own hero marker so that it is next 
to the least valuable pile with puzzle pieces remaining in 
it. Remember that shift pieces are the least valuable, favor 
pieces are more valuable than that, and baggage pieces are 
the most valuable.
If the player’s draw exhausted a given pile, any hero 
markers that were next to that pile (other than his own) are 
advanced to the next-most valuable pile (or the next-least 
valuable pile, if no more-valuable piles remain).
If all piles have been exhausted, all hero markers that were 
next to the piles of puzzle pieces are returned to the box, 
and players may not uncover any more information about 
the conspiracy.
After adjusting the hero markers, the player immediately 
gains a benefit based on which type of puzzle piece he 
drew, as listed below.
Shift Piece: The player may immediately 
light shift or dark shift any one player, includ-
ing himself.
Favor Piece: The player immediately gains 
one normal favor of his choice.
Baggage Piece: The player may immediately 
place one piece of good or bad baggage on 
any player’s plot, including his own.
After gaining his benefit, the player may add the puzzle 
piece to the conspiracy puzzle, observing the rules below. 
Alternately, the player may simply discard the piece.
A new puzzle piece must be attached to an already-
placed piece of the puzzle. The center piece is glued to 
the board, so is considered “in place” at the start of the 
game. That is, as pieces are placed, the puzzle grows 
outward from the conspiracy at the center of the puzzle 
area, toward the groups at the outside. 
A new puzzle piece must extend at least one linkage 
line from at least one already-placed puzzle piece. It is 
permissible for a new piece to dead-end one or more 
lines from already-placed pieces, as long as at least one 
line is extended.

A new puzzle piece may not be placed outside the 
puzzle area on the game map.
If a puzzle piece cannot be placed legally on the board, it 
must be discarded instead of placed.
Some puzzle pieces have bonuses shown on them. After 
placing or discarding a puzzle piece, the player gains any 
and all bonuses shown on it, as described below.
Move a Lead: The player may (but is not 
required to) immediately select one lead 
of the type shown and move it as though 
it had just been followed up by the player 
to his left, as described under “Moving 
Leads” on page 19.
Place a Hit: The player may (but is not 
required to) immediately place a hit on one 
suspect of his choice, as described under “Hits” 
on page 33.
Place a Bonus Puzzle Piece: The player may 
(but is not required to) immediately draw one 
puzzle piece of the type shown and add it to the 
puzzle according to the normal rules for doing 
so. The player receives the basic benefits and 
bonuses from that piece as normal.
Jinteki Link or Haas Link: These two pieces 
may be used to create links from the conspira-
cy to Haas-Bioroid and Jinteki, or not, depend-
ing on how they are placed. When closing the 
case, Haas tokens are worth +1 VP for every 
link made between Haas-Bioroid and the con-
spiracy, while Jinteki tokens are worth +1 VP 
for every link made between Jinteki and the 
conspiracy. Links are described in more detail 
Finally, if when revealing information a player adds the 
last puzzle piece to a row, a column, or one of the diago-
nals passing through the center of the puzzle (see dia-
gram), the player gains one conspiracy token for each row, 
column, or diagonal completed. Conspiracy tokens are 
worth 4 VP each at the end of the game. Note that be-
cause of the way pieces are placed, it is possible that some 
rows, columns, and diagonals may become impossible to 
complete over the course of the game. This is perfectly 
legal and does not interfere with the game, although it 
may mean that some later puzzle pieces are less desirable 
to take, since they will have to be discarded when drawn 
instead of being added to the puzzle.

Links to the Conspiracy
A link is a continuous line connecting one of the groups 
around the outside of the puzzle (or Haas or Jinteki, if their 
special puzzle pieces come up) to the conspiracy at the 
center of the puzzle area of the board. 
Separate connections to each of the four sides of the con-
spiracy are considered different links, so it is possible to 
create up to four links between the conspiracy and a given 
group. Additional lines from a given group to the same side 
of the conspiracy are not considered to be additional links, 
only lines connecting to different sides of the conspiracy.
For example, in the diagram below, there is one link to Human 
First (along the yellow line), while there are two links to Jinteki )
along the green and red paths).
The VP value of various tokens and cards are adjusted 
upwards or downwards at the end of the game as a result of 
links made on the puzzle. This is explained fully in “Clos-
ing the Case” on page 36.
Digging Deeper
When revealing information, a player draws a puzzle piece 
from the pile that his hero marker is adjacent to. However, 
if he wishes to reveal more valuable pieces of the puzzle 
(which are more likely to offer extra benefits for the detec-
tive), he must either wait until the least valuable pile of 
puzzle pieces is exhausted (which advances all of the hero 
markers up to the next-most valuable pile), or he must dig 
deeper. 
Upon digging deeper, the player advances his hero marker 
so it is next to the next-most valuable pile of puzzle pieces. 
For example, a player whose hero marker was next to the 
shift piece pile could dig deeper to move his hero marker 
to be next to the favor piece pile. Obviously, this has no ef-
fect if the player’s hero marker is already next to the most 
valuable pile of puzzle pieces, the baggage piece pile.
Tip: Digging deeper is useful for gaining powerful puzzle 
pieces and benefits early in the game, but it comes at a 
cost. Since a player’s hero marker resets to the least valu-
able pile of puzzle pieces every time he reveals informa-
tion, this effectively makes a favor piece cost the same 
amount of effort as placing two shift pieces at the start of 
the game, while a baggage piece costs as much effort as 
three shift pieces. Sometimes it’s better to wait until the 
shift pieces are exhausted before going after the more pow-
erful pieces.
In the diagram below, Louis spends 1 Time to dig deeper and 
moves his hero marker from the shift pieces to the favor pieces. 
If there had been no favor pieces left, he would have jumped 
directly to the baggage pieces.
Any player who completes a row, column, 
or diagonal composed of five puzzle 
pieces gains a conspiracy token.

Example: Raymond’s player plays his “I owe you one, Ray” 
light card. He pays 1 Time, along with the card’s twilight cost of 
2 dark shifts. The card has no other conditions that need to be 
met, so he gains one Kate favor and discards the card faceup to 
the bottom of his light deck.
Other players may also play a given detective’s dark cards 
during that player’s turn. It costs a player 0 Time to play a 
dark card, but the card’s twilight cost must still be paid, and 
any conditions listed on the card must still be met. After-
wards, the player performs the actions listed on the card and 
then discards it faceup to the bottom of the dark deck from 
which it was drawn.
Dark cards do not cost Time to play because they are 
played on another player’s turn, and they may only be 
played in response to the actions of that player (for ex-
ample, that player starting his turn, that player moving his 
detective to a major location, etc.).
Example: During Caprice’s turn, she enters a location. 
Raymond’s player then plays her “Report, Caprice” dark card. 
He pays 0 Time, since this takes place on her turn, then plays the 
the card’s twilight cost of 2 light shifts. Caprice has a warrant on 
Jinteki, so the card takes effect and she loses 2 Time. Raymond 
then discards the card faceup to the bottom of Caprice’s dark deck.
Important Note: Any time a card contradicts the general 
rules (such as light cards that say they cost 0 Time to play), 
the card takes precedence.
Playing Twilight 
Cards
Each player has a light deck and a dark deck devoted 
exclusively to his detective. Normally, a given detective’s 
twilight cards are only played during his turn, although 
there are a few exceptions, which are described on the 
cards themselves.
A player may pay 1 Time in order to play a light card from 
his hand. In order to do so, he must pay the card’s twilight 
cost (as described below) and meet any conditions listed on 
the card itself. Afterwards, he performs the actions listed 
on the card and then discards it faceup to the bottom of 
his light deck. Note that any additional costs listed on a 
card (such as spending one or more favors) must be paid in 
order for the card to take effect.

Paying Twilight Costs
Light and dark cards represent good and bad things that 
happen to the detectives. In the world of Android, a certain 
balance of good and bad events is maintained, and this bal-
ance is represented by twilight costs.
A detective’s twilight level is tracked on his detective sheet 
using a twilight marker. If the marker is all the way to the 
left side of the sheet (in the lightest space of the twi-
light track), the detective is said to be completely light 
shifted. If the marker is all the way to the right side of the 
sheet (in the darkest space of the twilight track), the detec-
tive is said to be completely dark shifted. In a similar 
vein, moving leftward along the twilight track (towards 
the lighter end) is called light shifting, while moving 
rightward along the twilight track (towards the darker end) 
is called dark shifting. Whenever a detective must light 
or dark shift, he only moves one space along the twilight 
track unless otherwise stated.
When a player wishes to play one of his detective’s light 
cards from his hand, he must dark shift by the number of 
spaces shown in the card’s upper left corner. Similarly, 
when a player wants to play another detective’s dark card 
from his hand, he must light shift by the number of spaces 
shown in the card’s upper left corner.
Remember: To play light cards, a detective must dark shift 
to the right. To play dark cards, a detective must light shift 
to the left.
Although it may seem confusing that a player must dark 
shift to play a light card and light shift to play a dark card, 
players should find it easy to learn if they remember that 
Remember:
Dark shift 
to the right 
to play a 
light card.
Light shift 
to the left 
to play a 
dark card.

a detective wants to be completely dark shifted in order to 
play dark cards, and he wants to be completely light shifted 
in order to play light cards. 
Tip: Effective card play requires a player to play both 
light and dark cards. Playing dark cards on other players 
“recharges the batteries,” allowing more light cards to be 
played on the player’s own turn. Ideally, a player should 
play at least one light card and one dark card each round.
Discarding Cards 
for Discounts
Sometimes a player may want to play a card from his 
hand that he cannot quite pay the twilight cost for. Other 
times a player may simply want to get rid of excess cards 
in his hand. In either case, a player may discard twilight 
cards from his hand when playing a twilight card in order 
to reduce the card’s twilight cost. For every card that is 
discarded in this way, the played card’s cost is reduced by 
one. Once a card’s cost has been reduced to 0, that player 
cannot discard any further cards to reduce its cost. The 
discarded cards do not have to match the type of card they 
are reducing the cost for. It is permissible for a player to 
discard light cards to reduce the cost of a dark card and 
vice versa. However, players may not discard cards to 
reduce the cost of a card being played by another player.
Matching the 
Current Plot
When a light or dark card whose color matches the target 
detective’s current plot is played, the player playing the 
card may choose to either increase or decrease its twilight 
cost by one (see “Plots” on page 29). A player might want 
to decrease a card’s cost to make it easier to play. On the 
other hand, a player might want to increase a card’s cost 
to shift further along his twilight track in preparation for 
playing other cards later on.
Example: Louis’s “Krausey Case” plot is in play. Krausey Case 
plot cards have a blue border. Another player plays “I want you 
in my office now, Blaine!,” which is one of Louis’s dark cards. It 
has a blue border, so it matches Louis’s current plot. The player 
that played it may increase its twilight cost to 4, reduce it to 2, or 
even choose to leave it at 3.

A
lthough “weak” or applied AI 
systems have been used for years 
in devices such as secretary 
software agents, none of these 
devices approached true human 
intelligence, or “strong” AI, until 
the creation of bioroids. The key to 
strong AI proved to be brainmapping, 
a technology originally developed to 
diagnose and study brain disorders.
Cardplay Priority
Often, more than one player will want to play a twilight 
card in response to the same event. However, only one 
dark card and one light card may be played in response to 
a single event. First, determine which player gets to play 
a dark card. If there is a disagreement, the first player has 
priority to play a card. If he chooses not to play a card, 
priority passes clockwise from him. After the dark card 
has been played and resolved, the active player may then 
play his light card, assuming that he can still fulfill its 
requirements.
Important Note: Light and dark cards drawn at no cost 
upon entering ritzy or seedy locations are drawn before 
any cards can be played in response to the detective enter-
ing that location.
Card Traits
Many cards have bolded, italicized words on them. These 
words are called traits. Normally, traits do not have any 
effect on their own. Instead, they are used to categorize 
cards into groups that may be affected by other cards. For 
example, Caprice Nisei’s “The Liberty Society has filed 
a suit” plot card causes her Human First cards to cost 0 
twilight to play. 
Fights
Some light and dark cards are identified with the Fight 
trait. When a Fight card is played on a player (either by 
himself or by another player), that player must respond by 
choosing either light tactics or dark tactics for the fight. 
Light tactics represent the detective fighting like a good 
guy, shooting to injure instead of kill, and so on. Dark 
tactics represent the detective doing whatever is necessary 
to win the fight, honorable or not. If the player chooses 
light tactics, he light shifts (if able) and does whatever is 
listed on the “light tactics” portion of the card. If the player 
chooses dark tactics, he dark shifts (if able) and does what-
ever is listed on the “dark tactics” portion of the card. Note 
that a detective who is completely light shifted can still 
choose light tactics, and a detective who is completely dark 
shifted can still choose dark tactics.
Plots
Plots are problems that spring up in the detective’s per-
sonal life while he’s investigating the murder. Each detec-
tive must deal with one plot each week (exception: each of 
Raymond’s plots takes two weeks to resolve), and the VP 
gained or lost from plots can tip the outcome of the game.
Each plot is comprised of a start card (single-sided), a 
crossroads card (double-sided), and two ending cards 
(double-sided with VP on them). All of a detective’s start 
cards have the same image on the back to make them easy 
to shuffle and select from randomly. At the start of each 
week, a random plot is selected for each detective, and its 
start card is put into play.
Plots accumulate emotional baggage over the course of the 
week, and this baggage determines how they resolve. Each 
start and/or crossroads card has a “good baggage” section 
and a “bad baggage” section. The good baggage section (in 
Ending 4 
Start
Crossroad
Crossroad
Ending 1 
Ending 2 
Ending 3 

orange) explains how the plot can accumulate good bag-
gage, while the bad baggage section (in grey) explains how 
the plot can accumulate bad baggage. When a plot gains 
good baggage, a baggage token is placed on it, orange 
side up. When a plot gains bad baggage, a baggage token 
is placed on it, grey side up. Generally, a player wants his 
plots to accumulate more good baggage than bad baggage, 
but this may be difficult, particularly if the other players 
decide to gang up on him.
Example: Louis Blaine’s “The Krausey Case” plot gains good 
baggage each time he follows up a lead and sacrifices the 
evidence from it, while it gains bad baggage each time another 
player sacrifices 2 Time.
Baggage, both good and bad, keeps building on each play-
er’s start card until the end of the third day of the week, 
when the start card resolves (as described below) and one 
of the two sides of the crossroads card corresponding to 
that plot enters play. The start card indicates which side of 
the crossroads card comes into play based on whether it 
was resolved with more good baggage than bad (a positive 
result), or less good baggage than bad (a negative result). 
If good and bad baggage are equal, the negative result 
transpires. 
When the crossroads card comes into play, the start card 
is discarded, along with all of the baggage on it. Bag-
gage then accumulates anew on the crossroads card until 
the end of the sixth day of the week, when the crossroads 
card, and the entire plot, resolves. This time, similar to the 
resolution of the start card, the crossroads card indicates, 
depending on the accumulated baggage, the ending for 
the plot. The ending card is then put into play with the 
appropriate side faceup, and then, if the game isn’t over, a 
new plot is chosen at random for the detective for the next 
week.
Example: For the first three days of the week, Louis’s “Krausey 
Case” plot goes well, and its start card resolves positively, so 
his player discards that card and its baggage, putting the “I 
finally caught a break” side of Louis’s crossroads card into play. 
Unfortunately, for the next three days of the week, this plot goes 
poorly, and the crossroads card resolves negatively, so the player 
discards it and its baggage, putting Louis’s “I found him too 
late” ending card into play. At the end of the game, this ending 
card will cost the player 1 VP.
Resolving Plots
At the end of the third and sixth days of each week, the 
players resolve their plots. Starting with the first player and 
continuing clockwise, each player resolves his plot in turn.
If a player’s plot has more good baggage than bad baggage, 
it resolves positively. The player looks through his plot 
cards for the card named in the good baggage (orange) sec-
tion of his card and puts it into play. He then discards the 
old card, along with all of the baggage on it.

If a player’s plot has as much or more bad baggage than 
good baggage, it resolves negatively. The player looks 
through his plot cards for the card named in the bad bag-
gage (grey) section of his card and puts it into play. He then 
discards the old card, along with all of the baggage on it.
Note that if a card has no baggage on it at all when it re-
solves, this is a tie, and in the case of a tie, the plot resolves 
negatively.
Example 1: At the end of the third day of the week, Louis’s 
“Krausey Case” start card has three good baggage and two 
bad baggage on it; therefore, it resolves positively. In the good 
baggage section of the card, it says the plot continues to “I 
finally caught a break,” so the player finds and puts into play 
that side of the “Krausey Case” crossroads card, discarding the 
“Krausey Case” start card along with the five baggage tokens 
on it.
Example 2: At the end of the sixth day of the week, Louis’s “I 
finally caught a break” crossroads card has no good baggage 
and no bad baggage. Ties resolve negatively, so the player looks 
in the bad baggage section of the card, where it says that the 
plot ends with “I found him too late.” Then, the player finds and 
puts into play that side of one of the plot’s two ending cards , 
discarding the “I finally caught a break” crossroads card.
Special Effects
Some plots have special rules associated with them. If 
these mechanics are listed on a start card or a crossroads 
card, they only remain in effect as long as that card is 
in play. However, once a plot has ended, its ending card 
remains in play for the rest of the game, so any mechanics 
listed on ending cards last for the rest of the game as well.
Example: Louis’s “The trail went cold” crossroads card says 
that he cannot gain political favors at City Hall. This effect only 
lasts until the card is discarded in favor of one of its endings. 
However, his “The two murders are linked” ending card says 
that if Louis’s guilty hunch is correct, it’s worth an extra 5 VP. 
Since this ending remains in play for the rest of the game, this 
effect lasts for the rest of the game as well.
Conditional Baggage 
from Twilight Cards
Often, twilight cards give a player baggage. Sometimes the 
card simply says that the player gains a good or bad bag-
gage, but in other cases the card might say something like 
“Louis gains one duty.” Duty is an example of conditional 
baggage. Conditional baggage is always italicized and is 
normally named after a positive or negative personality 

characteristic of some sort, such as greed, guilt, love, or 
courage. If a player gains conditional baggage, he must 
look at his current plot card (his current start or crossroads 
card, not any previous ending card). If the conditional 
baggage is listed in the good baggage section of the card, 
he gains good baggage equal to the amount of conditional 
baggage he gained. If the conditional baggage is listed in 
the bad baggage section of the card, he gains bad baggage 
equal to the amount of conditional baggage he gained. If 
the conditional baggage is listed in neither the good bag-
gage nor the bad baggage section, he gains neither good 
nor bad baggage.
Example: Louis gains one duty and one loyalty while his 
“Krausey Case” plot card is in play. Looking at it, he sees that 
duty is listed in its good baggage section, but loyalty is not listed 
on the card at all. Therefore, he gains one good baggage.
At the end of the second, fourth, and fifth day of each 
week, a general event is drawn from the general event 
deck and resolved. At the end of the first day of the 
second week, the specific event chosen at the start of the 
game is revealed and resolved.
Resolving General 
When a general event is drawn from the general event 
deck, it is placed in the first general event space by the 
board, moving any event already there to the second 
general event space (which in turn knocks any event in the 
second general event space entirely off the track).
Often, general events move an NPC to a specific location 
on the map and give that location a temporary location 
ability. When this happens, move the NPC’s status marker 

onto the map to show the NPC’s location. If an event that 
affects and NPC is drawn and that NPC has already been 
eliminated from the game, that event’s effect ends (see 
below) immediately.
An event’s effect can end in three different ways: the NPC 
associated with it can be eliminated or redirected to a new 
event, the event effect can end as described on the card, 
or the event can fall off the event track. When an event’s 
effect ends, turn the event facedown in its general event 
space and do not resolve it. It continues to occupy a space 
on the event track, but no longer has any mechanical im-
pact on the game past that. Any NPCs associated with an 
event whose effect has ended are removed from the map 
and returned to their owners.
Resolving Specific 
Specific events are similar to general events, except that 
they often involve suspects, and always move the testi-
mony leads. 
When a game’s specific event is revealed, first move 
the testimony leads corresponding to all suspects in 
play to the locations listed on the event. If any of those 
locations already contain a lead, the two leads in ques-
tion switch locations. 
Once the testimony leads have been moved, the event’s 
other effects are resolved as described on the card.
If a suspect mentioned in the event’s game text (as op-
posed to its italicized flavor text) has been killed, or is 
killed during the event, the event immediately ends. 
Return it to the box.
Some specific events, such as “Thomas Haas is holed 
up with Human First” in the Last Call at Roxie’s deck, 
involve moving a suspect to a specific location and 
then requiring players to pay Time to move him to 
another location. In these cases, the testimony lead cor-
responding to that suspect cannot be followed up until 
the event has ended.
Favors
Favors are the main currency for the detectives of New 
Angeles. They are gained at various locations on the map 
and are spent for any number of effects. Favors do not 
have any abilities on their own; they are normally spent to 
pay all or part of the cost to use a location ability or play 
a card. Players are limited to the quantity of favor tokens 
included with the game. That is, if a given type of favor 
runs out, no more can be acquired until some are spent and 
thus returned to the stock.
It is possible that, due to links created on the puzzle, some 
favors will be worth VP at the end of the game (see “Clos-
ing the Case” on page 36).
Haas and 
Jinteki Tokens
Haas tokens are gained through the use of Haas-Bioroid’s 
(D7) location ability. Jinteki tokens are gained through 
the use of Jinteki’s (D3) location ability. In each case, the 
tokens represent leverage that can be used against the com-
pany they are associated with, and each token is worth 3 
VP at the end of the game. Players are limited to the tokens 
included with the game. Once they run out, no more can be 
gained.
Warrants are normally placed by using the location ability 
of Monroe and Associates (H3), and allow the detective 
that placed the warrant to enter a specific restricted area 
without losing 2 Time. Once placed on a location, a war-
rant remains there for the rest of the game. A player may 
only have two warrants in play at a time, but may move 
one of his warrants instead of placing one.
Although there are several suspects in the murder, only 
one of them actually committed the crime. The other 
suspects, however, are important witnesses – witnesses 
H
einlein was originally 
established as a 
starport and mining 
facility. The moon’s soil 
proved to contain Helium–3, 
an isotope particularly suited 
as fuel for modern fusion 
reactors. Competition for this 
mineral was one of the major 
contributing factors that led 
to the War.

that the real murderer wouldn’t mind seeing dead. The 
amount of danger a given suspect is in of being killed is 
represented by hit tokens. The more a suspect accumu-
lates, the closer he is to being silenced.
Hit tokens are normally placed as a bonus when a player 
reveals information and places a puzzle piece, or when he 
uses the Humanity Labor (H1) location ability. 
When a player is instructed to place a hit token on a sus-
pect, he chooses one of the active suspects and places a hit 
token on that suspect’s sheet. If a suspect ever has three 
hits on his sheet, that suspect is immediately killed. When 
a suspect is killed, return all of the evidence, hit, and alibi 
tokens on his suspect sheet to their respective piles, and 
then turn the suspect sheet facedown. 
After a suspect is killed, hit tokens may not be removed 
from that suspect (although some game effects do allow hit 
tokens to be removed from a suspect before he dies).
At the end of the game, neither guilty nor innocent hunch-
es indicating dead suspects pay off. The suspect clearly 
wasn’t the murderer, and he may have been innocent, but 
he’s dead now, so who cares?
Alibis, Surprise 
Witnesses, and 
Perjuries
Alibi tokens represent reliable witnesses 
willing to vouch for the innocence of a 
suspect. Normally, alibis are placed as a 
result of the Order of Sol’s (F8) location 
ability, although they can be placed in 
other ways as well. 
When a player places an alibi, he chooses an active suspect 
and places an alibi token on that suspect’s sheet. Each alibi 
is worth –5 guilt for that suspect when the case closes, but 
placing an alibi can tip a player’s hand dangerously.
Surprise witnesses are special evidence 
tokens that act just like alibis except that 
they can be placed in secret. Like alibis, 
they are worth –5 guilt for the suspect they 
have been placed on when the case closes.
Perjury tokens are special evidence tokens 
that can turn an alibi or a surprise witness 
into a detriment instead of an advantage. 
When the case closes, for each perjury 
token on a suspect, one alibi or surprise 
witness on that suspect is worth +5 guilt 
instead of –5 guilt.
Lily Lockwell, 
the Reporter
Lily Lockwell is a roving reporter who 
is trying to write a story about the 
murder that the detectives are inves-
tigating. She can be both a help and a 
hindrance for the detectives. 
When a detective enters Lily’s location, he must spend 1 
Time if he has any left, as Lily questions him. If the Time is 
spent, she slips the detective some info in return, since she 
knows that it’s best to keep her contacts happy. As a result, 
the player may choose one piece of evidence on any suspect 
sheet and reveal it, turning it faceup. After talking to Lily, 
the player moves her. Lily must be moved to a location of 
the same type (color) in a different district, just like a lead 
that is being moved. Lily may be moved to a location that 
already contains a lead, but can not be moved to Jimmy the 
Snitch’s location. 
Alibi
Surprise 
Witness

Jimmy the Snitch is one of the most 
infamous informants in New Angeles. 
Cops and criminals come to him for 
the latest news all the time. Of course, 
his dangerous lifestyle means he’s 
always on the move. 
A player whose detective is in the same location as Jimmy 
may spend 1 Time to talk to him. That player may then 
either look at any one other player’s hand of cards, or he 
may peek at all of the facedown evidence on a single suspect 
sheet. Whatever the player chooses, the information he 
learns may not be shared with the other players. After the 
player gets done looking, he moves Jimmy to another loca-
tion of the same type (color) in a different district. Just like 
Lily, Jimmy may be moved to a location containing a lead, 
but he cannot be moved to Lily Lockwell’s location.
NPCs and 
Elimination
NPCs are important characters in the lives of the detec-
tives. A given NPC’s care and welfare (usually) means a 
lot to the detective associated with them. It is possible, 
over the course of the game, for NPCs to be eliminated. 
Elimination might signify the NPC’s death, or simply that 
he has left the life of the detective he was associated with 
for good.
If an NPC is eliminated, turn that NPC’s status marker 
facedown, revealing the skull on the other side. The de-
tective associated with that NPC must discard any NPC 
favors he possesses from that NPC, and cannot gain any 
more this game.
Two of Raymond’s NPCs are unusual in that they don’t 
have an eliminated side. They are shown as follows.
Parsons
Missing
(Start)
Parsons
Found
Keene
Troubled
(Start)
Keene
At Peace

NPC Favors
Certain NPCs can grant favors to the detective they are 
associated with. These favors can be spent just like any 
other favor, with one difference. NPC favors may be spent 
as though they were one of two or more different types 
of normal favors, as shown on the token. Each NPC favor 
spent still only counts as one favor; it can just be one of 
several different types.
Example: A Mr. Li favor can be spent as a corp, political, 
society, or street favor. It still only counts as one favor, however.
Closing the Case
After the end of the sixth day of week two, the game 
comes to an end. At this point, the players determine 
which suspect is the murderer, tally up their VP, and deter-
mine a winner.
Determining the 
Murderer
For each suspect, do the following.
Turn all of the facedown evidence tokens on the sus-
pect’s sheet faceup.
Look for the lowest-value evidence token in the sus-
pect’s strong evidence file (even if it has a positive 
value), and then discard all pieces of evidence of that 
numerical value from that file. For instance, if Vinnie 
the Strangler has five pieces of evidence in his docu-
ment evidence file, valued at –1, –1, 2, 3, and 5, the 
players would discard the two –1 tokens, since they 
share the lowest value on that file.
Look for the highest-value evidence in the suspect’s 
weak evidence file (even if it has a negative value), 
and then discard all pieces of evidence of that numeri-
cal value from that file. For instance, if Vinnie the 
Strangler had four pieces of evidence in his testimony 

Example of Determining the Murderer
The diagram at right depicts four 
suspects at the end of a three player 
game.
First, the lowest-value evidence is 
removed from each suspect’s strong 
evidence file, and the highest-value 
evidence is removed from each sus-
pect’s weak evidence file.
Next, the surprise witness on 
Thomas Haas subtracts 5 from his 
total, while the alibi combined with 
the perjury token on Mark Henry 
adds 5 to his total, giving the final 
total shown below (numbers in 
parentheses are the totals of each of 
the suspect’s evidence files):
Eve 5VA3TC: 4 Guilt (4–1+1)
Noise: –1 Guilt (3–1–3)
Mark Henry: 14 Guilt (4+5+0, +5 
for perjured alibi)
Thomas Haas: –5 Guilt (5–2–3, –5 
for surprise witness)
Therefore, Mark Henry is guilty, 
while the other three suspects are 
innocent.

Example of Scoring
The diagram below shows the puzzle at the end of the 
game. Mark Henry was guilty of the murder.
Tallying up the links, Jinteki and Cardinal Reese have 2 
each, and Human First and Haas-Bioroid have 1 apiece. 
This means that street favors and Haas tokens are worth 
+1 VP each, Jinteki tokens are worth +2 each, and “sad 
endings” (endings worth –1 VP or less) are worth an 
extra –2 VP each.
Raymond is the first to score. First, he has two Haas to-
kens worth 4 VP each (normally they’re worth 3 VP, but 
the puzzle has boosted their value). He also has a con-
spiracy token (4 VP) and two street favors (1 VP each, 
again due to the puzzle). Lastly, he has 4 trauma (–4 VP). 
Therefore, from just his tokens, Raymond has 10 VP.
Next, he adds in 14 VP from his plot, bringing him to 
24 VP. His guity hunch are wrong, so he gets only 5 VP 
from his innocent hunch, bringing his final tally to 29 
VP. If Eve had been the murderer, he would’ve received 
an extra 18 VP (15, plus 3 more for being obsessed). 
Caprice scores next. Tallying her tokens, she has two 
Jinteki tokens (5 VP each, gaining +2 each from the 
puzzle), 1 street favor (1 VP), and two trauma (–2 VP). 
This brings her to 9 VP so far.
Both of Caprice’s hunches were correct, so she receives 
20 VP for that (29 VP total).
Finally, Caprice has one happy ending (7 VP) and one 
sad ending (–1, reduced to –3 VP because of the puzzle). 
That brings her final tally to 33 VP.
Rachel scores last. Adding up her tokens, she has one 
Jinteki token (5 VP), two Haas tokens (4 VP each), one 
conspiracy token (4 VP), two street favors (2 VP), and 
one trauma (–1 VP). She also has two Captain Beck-
mann favors, which count as street favors, giving her 
another 2 VP, for a total of 20 VP.
She receives no VP for her incorrect hunches, but she 
receives 3 VP for her leftover money, bringing her to 
23 VP.
Finally, looking at her plots, she receives 13 VP for her 
two happy endings, and 2 final VP for her two unspent 
Captain Beckmann favors, giving her 38 VP total. 
Even though she didn’t solve the murder, Rachel is the 
winner!

evidence file, valued at –1, 2, 4, and 4, the players 
would discard the two 4 tokens, since they share the 
highest value on that file.
Add up all of the values remaining evidence on the 
suspect, across all three files.
Match each perjury token up with an alibi or surprise 
5.	
witness on the same suspect. Any perjury token that 
cannot be matched up with an alibi or surprise wit-
ness is discarded without effect. Subtract 5 from the 
evidence total for each alibi or surprise witness on the 
suspect that is not matched up with a perjury token. 
Add 5 for each alibi or surprise witness on the suspect 
that is matched up with a perjury token.
Note: When matching perjury tokens with surprise wit-
nesses and alibis, it doesn’t matter what file the tokens are 
placed in on the suspect sheet.
The suspect with the highest total is the murderer (even if 
that total is lower than zero). The player with that suspect’s 
guilty hunch is correct, and every player with any other 
suspect’s innocent hunch is correct. (Exception: Hunches 
for suspects who have been killed are never correct.)
Obsession
A player who has both the guilty and an innocent hunch 
for the same suspect is said to be obsessed with that sus-
pect. He is out to prove that the suspect is guilty beyond 
the shadow of a doubt. 
An obsessed detective’s hunches pay off normally, with the 
innocent hunch paying off if the suspect is innocent and 
the guilty hunch paying off if the suspect is guilty. How-
ever, if the suspect has a total guilt that is at least 5 higher 
than every other suspect’s total, both of the obsessed de-
tective’s hunches are considered to be correct, and, fur-
thermore, he receives an additional bonus of 3 VP.
The Puzzle
When tallying up points at the end of the game, remember 
that some point values may be modified by the links that 
have been made on the puzzle. 
For each link (see “Links to the Conspiracy” on page 24) 
made between the conspiracy and a group, one of the VP 
values scored at the end of the game is adjusted.
Tallying the Points
After the murderer has been determined, the players add 
up all of their VP, as listed below. Whichever player has 
the highest total wins. In the event of a tie for highest total, 
if only one of the tied players had a correct guilty hunch, 
that player wins. Otherwise, the tied players share the 
victory.
	
Guilty hunch correct	
+15 VP
	
Innocent hunch correct	
+5 VP
	
Each plot ending achieved	
Varies*
	
Each conspiracy token	
+4 VP
	
Each Haas token	
+3 VP
	
Each Jinteki token	
+3 VP
	
Each Trauma counter	
–1 VP
	
Each favor	
+0 VP**
*Endings with a VP value of 1 or higher are “happy” end-
ings, while endings with a value of –1 or less are “sad.”
**Although favors are not normally worth points, the con-
spiracy puzzle may cause them to be worth points. Note 
that NPC favors gain all VP bonuses for each type of favor 
they show on their token (e.g., a Mr. Li favor gains the VP 
bonuses for all four types of normal favors).

Designer’s Notes
I don’t usually do designer’s notes, but Android is very 
near and dear to my heart, so I’m making an exception 
this time.
First off, I want to thank my family for supporting me 
over the years. I know it’s been hard to watch me screw 
up sometimes, but thanks for always sticking by me 
regardless. 
I’d also like to thank Dan Clark and Andrew Navaro for 
their tireless work on this game. Dan was helping me 
design the setting from the very start, when it was just 
a gleam in my eye. We spent many hours on the trip to 
and from the Origins game convention designing the 
characters and their stories, and he wrote many excel-
lent story snippets and pieces of flavor text to get just 
the right feel. Andrew, for his part, really stepped up to 
bat on the graphic design and went above and beyond 
the call of duty to make the game gorgeous.
I shouldn’t forget to thank Zoë Robinson, our art direc-
tor, who worked relentlessly and found some truly phe-
nomenal artists, even when I had trouble explaining the 
look I was after. Thanks also to Jeff, Mark, Gabe, and 
everyone else at FFG who touched this game in some 
way. Everyone put in a lot of work and it shows.
Finally, I want to thank Christian for letting me do 
Android in the first place. He’s given me a place to work 
and learn, and he gave me a lot of free reign on this 
game. I hope it lives up to his expectations.
Android (at least my part of it) was inspired by a lot 
of things. Growing up, I spent a lot of time reading. 
Seriously, a lot of time. I did too well in school and 
too poorly at sports to really be popular with the other 
kids, as you might expect. But any problems I was hav-
ing could be banished with a good book, at least for a 
while. I tore through the works of David Eddings, the 
two Roberts (Heinlein and Howard), Peter Beagle, and 
a host of other talented writers. To this day, the books 
I read as a child form the foundation of what I do (and 
here’s the happy ending), which is designing games for 
a living. Without that prior exposure to all those bril-
liant minds and imaginations, I certainly wouldn’t be 
where I am now.
But there’s one other major inspiration for Android that 
I would be terribly remiss in leaving out – NASA. We 
lived in Cocoa, Florida, which is about ten miles from 
Cape Canaveral, one of the main sites for the U.S. space 
program. My dad worked at the Cape, and as a result, 
I got to see and experience a lot of things not readily 
available to the general public.
One of my strongest memories is getting in the old 
powder blue van with the family and driving down to 
the Cape, where we got out lawn chairs and watched 
the very first shuttle launch. It was something out of my 
science fiction books as the Columbia shot up into the 
sky on a bright spark of flame, and I remember cheering 
with all my heart. At that moment, to a little boy, it felt 
like we were just a step away from colonizing the stars. 
Of course, we’ve still got a long way to go, and I did not 
at that time suspect the raw hurt I would later feel as I 
watched Challenger explode from the little playground 
of my school.
They usually let us go outside to watch the launches, 
and everyone was very excited because a teacher was 
being sent into space. All was well at first, but then the 
candle-like flame was obscured by a puff of smoke. I 
figured something had gone wrong, but I stood there, 
hoping the shuttle would emerge and be okay. Then the 
booster rockets came out of the cloud, flying in different 
directions, and I started crying. There was no way the 
shuttle had survived. The rest of the day was a tearful 
blur spent in the school auditorium watching the news. 
It’s hard for anyone who didn’t live in that area to un-
derstand, but lots of us had parents working at the Cape 
and we felt like we were somehow a part of the space 
program – if not as contributing members, then at least 
as the cheering section.
That day kicked the heart out of the entire area, and 
you could see the grief in everyone’s faces for days to 
come. I remember being so disappointed as the country 
pulled back from the space program after that. I guess 
we weren’t racing the Russians anymore, so it wasn’t 
worth the loss of any lives to most people, or perhaps 
we simply couldn’t forgive them that one failure. It was, 
and still is, hard for me to understand.
Android, while gritty and grim at times, depicts a hope-
ful future. One in which we’ve colonized the inner plan-
ets of the Solar System and have avoided polluting or 
overpopulating ourselves to death. There are still wars, 
the divide between rich and poor, and a fresh ethical 
dilemma in the form of the androids, but it is a future 
that I feel is worth working towards. It’s not perfect, 
but then, nothing is. It’s a future like the one that the 
men and women of NASA work towards every day, and 
I dedicate Android to them and others like them, who 
have given their labor and their lives towards a brighter 
future. Hopefully someday, we’ll all get our flying cars, 
our sleek spaceships, and our robot butlers.
Here’s to the future!
Kevin Wilson

Credits
Game Design: Kevin Wilson
World Design: Kevin Wilson and Daniel Lovat 
Clark
Additional Game Design: Daniel Lovat Clark
Editing: Mark O’Connor and Jeff Tidball
Graphic Design: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Cover Art: Didier Poli
Character Art: Julie Dillon
Map Art: Stefan Morrell
Vehicle Art: Aaron Panagos
Lead Playtester: Mike Zebrowski
Playtesters: William Baldwin, Jaffer Batica, 
Bob Bednar, Bryan Bornmueller, Lisa Bjornseth, 
Tony Doepner, Rob Fosnaugh, JR Godwin, John 
Goodenough, Michael Hurley, Rich Johnson, Matt 
Jones, Evan Kinne, Corey Konieczka, Rob Kouba, 
Gabriel Laulunen, Thyme Ludwig, Brian Mo-
dreski, Andrew Navaro, Eric Potter, Thaadd “the 
Destroyer” Powell, Casey Ryan, Morgan Stana, 
Jason Steinhurst, Jeremy Stomberg, Jeff Tidball, 
Pam VanMuijen, Tom Zebro, and Team XYZZY
Production Managers: Rich Spicer and Gabe 
Laulunen 
Executive Developer: Jeff Tidball
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
© 2008 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights 
reserved. No part of this product may be repro-
duced without specific permission. Android, 
Fantasy Flight Games, and the FFG logo are trade-
marks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy 
Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road 
B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 
and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. 
Retain this information for your records.

Game Map Breakdown
Puzzle 
Area
Moon Colony Heinlein
Calendar and 
Event Area
Ritzy Location
may draw a light 
Seedy Location
may draw a dark 
Nomal Location
receives no benefit.
Minor Locations
City of New 
Angeles
The 
Beanstalk
Districts
Each district of the board is shown 
above in a different color. Note that the 
Beanstalk is its own district. In addi-
tion, there are coordinates along the 
edge of the map to help players find 
specific locations.
The calendar 
tracks the prog-
ress of the case 
and determines 
what events, if 
any, occur each 
day. When the 
final day ends, 
the game is over 
and the case is 
closed.
Calendar
Puzzle Area
The puzzle area tracks the detec-
tives’ progress in uncovering the 
conspiracy behind the murder. 
By linking the groups around the 
edge of the board to the conspir-
acy in the center, the players may 
greatly affect the final score.
A detective in this 
location may use 
its location ability.
Major Location
A detective must pay 3 Time 
to enter a restricted location 
unless he has a warrant on it.
Restricted Location

Murder Sheet Breakdown
Name: This is the name of the case.
Murder Scene: This picture depicts where the murder 
took place. At the start of the game, the scene of the 
crime marker is placed here.
Lineup: This area shows the suspects for the murder and 
their locations at the start of the game. The suspects are 
arranged from top to bottom in order of most likely to 
least likely suspect. In the event of two suspects being 
tied for guilt at the end of the game, the suspect higher 
up on the murder sheet is the murderer.
Schedule: This area shows where Lily Lockwell and 
Jimmy the Snitch begin the game. In addition, it also 
shows where they move at the start of week 2.
Special Rules: This area lists any unusual rules pertain-
ing to the case. These rules are in effect all game long 
unless otherwise stated.
Lineup
Murder Scene
Schedule
Special 
Rules
Name

Major Locations
Important Note: Remember that a player may only use a 
given location’s ability once per turn.
Broadcast Square (E3): Spend 1 Time and one normal 
favor of any type to place a puzzle piece (see “Revealing 
Information” on page 23). The puzzle piece may be drawn 
from any of the three piles, and the player’s hero marker 
does not move when using this ability.
Castle Club (F4): Spend 1 Time and one street favor to 
place one good or bad baggage on any player’s current plot 
card, even your own.
City Hall (A2): Spend 2 Time to gain one political favor.
Eastside Tenements (L3): Spend 2 Time to gain one street favor.
Eliza’s Toybox (D7): Spend 1 Time to exchange any one 
of your favors for any one normal favor from the pool.
Haas-Bioroid (D7) (Restricted): Spend 2 Time, one 
street favor, one society favor, and discard any two twilight 
cards from your hand to gain one Haas token.
Humanity Labor (H1) (Restricted): Spend 2 Time, one 
of each type of normal favor, and discard any two twilight 
cards from your hand to place a hit on a suspect of your 
choice.
Jinteki (D3) (Restricted): Spend 2 Time, one political 
favor, one corp favor, and discard any two twilight cards 
from your hand to gain one Jinteki token.

Levy University (E1): Spend 2 Time to gain one society 
favor.
Melange Mining (G7): Spend 2 Time to gain one corp 
favor.
Memories of Green (K1): Spend 1 Time and one corp 
favor to place one good or bad baggage on any player’s 
current plot card, even your own.
Monroe & Associates (H3): Spend 1 Time and one political 
favor to place one of your warrants on any restricted loca-
tion on the board that doesn’t have one of your warrants on it 
already. You may enter that location for 1 Time instead of 3. 
Once placed, a warrant stays in play for the rest of the game.
NAPD (I3): Spend 1 Time and any two normal favors to 
gain a dropship pass from the pool.
Order of Sol (F8) (Restricted): Spend 2 Time and any 
two normal favors to place an alibi on a suspect of your 
choice.
Starlight Crusade (D1): Spend 2 Time and any one 
normal favor to discard one point of trauma from your 
character.
Wyldside (G8): Spend 1 Time and one society favor to 
place one good or bad baggage on any player’s current plot 
card, even your own.

Index
Actions
	
Menu of, 12–15
Alibis
	
	
	
see also Order of Sol (F8), 47
Baggage (Good and Bad)
	
	
Conditional (Fear, Rage, Trust, etc.), 31
	
Gaining Normally, 29
	
see also Castle Club (F4), 46
	
see also Memories of Green (K1), 47
	
see also Wyldside (G8), 47
Beanstalk
	
Crossing, 17
	
History, 16
Calendar
	
Advancing the Day, 15
	
Climax, see Climax
	
Events, see End of Day Events
Climax, 15, 19
Closing the Case
	
Determining the Murderer, 36
	
	
The Puzzle, 39
	
Tallying the Points, 39 
Components, Game
	
Inventory, 2–3
	
Overview, 3–7
Conditional Baggage (Fear, Rage, Trust, etc.), 31
	
Links to the, 25
	
Digging Deeper, 25
	
Parts of, 21 (Diagram), 21
	
Revealing Information, 21–24
	
Uncovering, 21
Conspiracy Tokens
	
	
Gaining, 24
	
Credits, 41
Daytime Phase, 12–15
Designer’s Notes, 40
Detectives
	
Dropship Passes
	
	
see also NAPD (I3), 47
	
Using, 18
End of Day Events
	
General Events, 32
	
Plot Resolution, 30
	
Specific Events, 33
End of Day Phase, 15
	
	
Resolving General, 32
	
Resolving Specific, 33
Evidence
	
	
Placing, 20–21
	
Strong and Weak, 21
	
Unusual, 21
Favors
	
	
	
Corp, see also Melange Mining (G7), 47
	
Political, see also City Hall (A2), 46
	
Society, see also Levy University (E1), 47
	
Street see also Eastside Tenements (L3), 46
Fights, 29
First Player
	
Changing, 15
	
Choosing (Step 12), 11
Following Up Leads, 18
Game Round, 11
Haas Tokens
	
	
	
see also Haas–Bioroid (D7), 46
Hero Markers, 4
	
	
Explanation, 33–34
	
Killing Suspects, 33–34
	
see also Humanity Labor (H1), 46
Hunches
	
	
	
	
see also Determining the Murderer
Important Terms, 12
	
Component Overview, 6–7
	
Game Effects, 35
Jinteki Tokens
	
	
	
see also Jinteki (D3), 46
Leads
	
	
During the Climax, 19
	
Following Up, 18–19
	
Moving, 19
Lily Lockwell
	
Component Overview, 6–7
	
Game Effects, 34
Links, see also Conspiracy, Links to the
Locations
	
Normal, 17
	
Major, 46–47
	
Restricted, 17
	
Ritzy, 17
	
Seedy, 17
	
Types, 17
Major Locations, see Locations
Map
	
Component Overview, 3
	
Breakdown of, 44
Movement
	
In General, 15–17
	
Between Earth and Moon, 17
	
Using Beanstalk, 17
	
Using Dropship Passes, 18
Moving Leads, 19
Murder Sheets
	
	
Breakdown of, 45
NPCs
	
	
Elimination, 35
	
Events and, 32
	
Favors, 36
	
	
see also Evidence, Unusual
Plots
	
Basic Structure, 29
	
	
Resolving, 30
	
Special Effects, 31
Puzzle
	
	
Benefits and Bonuses, 21–25
Restricted Locations, see also Locations, and 
Scene of the Crime
	
Effects, see First Player, Changing
Setup, 8–11
Special Cards, 7
Surprise Witness
	
	
see also Evidence, Unusual
Suspect Sheets
	
	
Files, 20
Tip Sheets, 4
Time Sheet and Marker, 5
Trauma
	
	
see also Starlight Crusade (D1), 47
Twilight Cards
	
	
Fights, 29
	
Playing, 26
	
Priority, 29
	
Traits, 29
Twilight Costs
	
Paying, 27–28
	
Reducing by Discarding Cards, 28
	
Reducing by Matching Plot, 28
Vehicles
	
	
see also Movement
	
	
	
see also Monroe & Associates (H3), 47
	
see also Restricted Locations
Diagram Table 
of Contents
Setup, 8
Example of Movement, 16
Example of Moving a Lead, 18
Example of Revealing Information, 22
Plot Structure, 29
Example of Determining the Murderer, 37
Example of Scoring, 38
Game Map Breakdown, 44
Murder Sheet Breakdown, 45