Over the course of 18 hours, the runners hit Jinteki, Haas-Bioroid, 
and Weyland Consortium with DOS attacks, datatheft, and a 
truly vulgar piece of cyber-vandalism. These attacks cost each 
megacorp millions upon millions of credits. NBN put together 
a holo-report inside half an hour. Thirty minutes after the third 
megacorp node went dark, Lily Lockwell was standing in front 
of the Beanstalk gravely lecturing on the evils of unregulated 
networks and the rise of cybercrime worldwide. Five minutes 
later, the runners had struck again; now Lockwell was reading 
out the Anarch’s Manifesto. They hadn’t bothered to make her lips 
synch with the new audio track. One in three feeds got a special 
bonus: Lockwell’s head grafted onto a sense-star’s scantily-clad 
body. 
The talking heads said it was a legion of organized 
cybercriminals, Tri-Maf activity, Martian terrorists. They were 
wrong. It was three people–a g-mod from Heinlein, a cyborg New 
Angelino, and a baseline woman from BosWash–who knew one 
another by reputation only. But the heads were right about one 
thing: it was the start of a cyber war, one that neither side could 
afford to lose. 
Introduction
Welcome to Android: Netrunner. It is the future. Humanity has 
spread itself across the solar system with varying degrees of 
success. The Moon and Mars are colonized. A plan to terraform 
the Red Planet is well underway, hindered only by a civil war 
that has broken out and locked down many of its habitation 
domes. On Earth, a massive space elevator has been built 
near the equator in the sprawling megapolis of New Angeles, 
stretching up into low orbit. It is the hub of trade in the solar 
system, and most people refer to it as the “Beanstalk.” 
Computers have continued to advance along with discoveries 
in the field of neurobiology. This has led to brain-mapping, a 
method by which a human mind can be stored electronically 
in sophisticated mind-machine interface devices. The physical 
mouse and keyboard are archaic relics; gestural interfaces and 
virt displays are commonplace. Elite users “jack in,” plugging 
the computer directly into their brains.
Enormous megacorporations, called corps by most, influence 
every facet of daily life: food, threedee, music, career choices. 
Jinteki and Haas-Bioroid redefine life itself, making clones and 
bioroids with braintaped, artificially-intelligent minds. The 
Weyland Consortium owns a piece of everything that goes up 
or down the Beanstalk, and everything goes up or down the 
Beanstalk. And NBN shapes what you think and dream, with 
the most extensive media network ever conceived on Earth 
under their control. 
Everyone relies on the network, the all-seeing, all-hearing grid 
that surrounds Earth and reaches out into the solar system 
beyond. More data flows through the network every second 
than was ever expressed in the first five thousand years of 
written language. It is a surveillance network, a financial 
system, a library–it is the backbone of modern civilization. And 
it is also the only weakness the corps have. 
The network is forever evolving and moving, impossible 
to completely pinpoint or lock down. Rogue operators– 
computer specialists with the hardware, software, and raw 
talent to challenge the system–use the sprawl of the net to 
their advantage. Some want to expose the rot that lies at the 
heart of the system, and to awaken the teeming billions to the 
hypocrisy of their corporate masters. Others just want to earn a 
profit, or express themselves in the ultimate medium. Whatever 
their motivation, the actions of these individuals intersect in a 
common cause: that of digital independence. They are runners.
The Living Card Game
Android: Netrunner is a two-player game that can be 
played using only the contents of this box, known 
as the core set. However, Android: Netrunner is also 
a Living Card Game (LCG®) that evolves over time 
with regularly released expansions. Each expansion 
offers players many additional cards that add variety, 
new customization options, and rich themes to the 
game. Unlike most collectible card games, all LCG 
expansions have a fixed distribution–there is no 
randomization to their contents.

Game Overview
Android: Netrunner is a card game for two players set in the 
dystopian future of the Android universe. One player assumes 
the role of a Runner, a rogue hacker armed with bleeding-edge 
gear and software, while the other player controls a powerful 
Corporation that will stop at nothing to achieve its goals.
In Android: Netrunner, players alternate taking turns, beginning 
with the Corporation. During the Corporation’s turn, he has 
three clicks to spend. The Corporation can spend his clicks to 
perform a variety of actions, including gaining credits, drawing 
cards, installing cards, and advancing agendas. The Corporation 
must carefully divide his efforts between defensive actions, such 
as protecting his servers from the Runner, and offensive actions, 
such as tracing the Runner or advancing agendas. 
The Runner has four clicks to spend during his turn. The 
Runner can also spend his clicks to perform a variety of actions, 
including gaining credits, drawing cards, installing cards, and 
making runs. During a run, the Runner attempts to hack into 
the Corporation’s servers in an effort to hinder the Corporation 
and steal his agendas. The Runner has several different targets 
to choose from when initiating a run; choosing where and 
when to run is a key part of an effective Runner strategy.
Object of the Game
The objective for both players is to score seven agenda points. 
The Corporation scores agenda points by advancing agendas; 
the Runner scores agenda points by stealing agendas from 
the Corporation. Agendas are cards that only appear in the 
Corporation’s deck.
The Corporation also wins if the Runner is flatlined (see 
“Damage” on page 20) and the Runner wins if the Corporation 
must draw a card from his empty draw deck.
An agenda card 
worth 2 agenda 
points.
Corporate Factions
In Android: Netrunner there are four different Corporate 
factions to choose from. Corporate factions are important for 
deckbuilding (see “Deckbuilding” on page 24) and each 
Corporate faction has certain cards affiliated with it. These 
factions are:
Runner Factions
In Android: Netrunner there are three different Runner factions 
to choose from. Factions are important for deckbuilding and 
each Runner faction has certain cards affiliated with it. These 
factions are:
Neutral Cards
Some Corporation and Runner cards have no faction affiliation. 
These cards are called neutral cards and can be used in any 
deck of the corresponding side.
Haas-Bioroid
NBN
Weyland Consortium
Anarch
Criminal
Shaper
AstroScript Pilot Program
Place 1 agenda counter on AstroScript 
Pilot Program when you score it.
Hosted agenda counter: Place 
1 advancement token on a card that can be 

The Android: Netrunner core set includes the following 
components:
Corporation Cards (134)
• 28 Haas-Bioroid Cards
• 28 Jinteki Cards
• 28 Weyland Consortium Cards
• 28 NBN Cards
• 22 Neutral Corporation Cards
Runner Cards (114)
• 33 Anarch Cards
• 33 Criminal Cards
• 33 Shaper Cards
• 15 Neutral Runner Cards	
Reference Cards (2)
These cards show the actions a player 
can perform during his turn. 
Click Tracker Tokens (2)
& Cards (2)
Together these are used to track how 
many clicks a player has left to spend 
during his turn. The reference card 
with four spaces is the Runner’s. 
The reference card with three is the 
Corporation’s. 
One-Credit \\ 
Advancement Token (51)
One side of this token represents one credit. Credits 
are the basic currency of Android: Netrunner. 
The other side of this token is an advancement token. 
The Corporation uses advancement tokens to track 
the advancement of his installed cards.
Five-Credit Token (8)
This token represents five credits. 
Brain Damage Token (6)
This token represents one brain damage. The 
Runner can get brain damage through various card 
effects.
Bad Publicity \\ 
Tag Token (12)
One side of this token represents one point of bad 
publicity. The Corporation can get bad publicity 
through various card effects. 
The other side of this token represents one tag. 
The Runner can get tags through various card 
effects. 
Generic Tokens (23)
One side of this token is purple, and the other side 
is red. Players use these tokens to track counters on 
cards as necessary. The most common counters are 
agenda counters, power counters, and virus counters.
Component Overview
Posted Bounty
Security
When you score Posted Bounty, you may 
forfeit it to give the Runner 1 tag and take 
1 bad publicity.
“Some two-cred newsy picks it up, even better. The 
scum could be in the alleys of Guayaquil or the slums 
of BosWash. Not to mention off-planet.”
Neural EMP
Illus. Christina Davis
OPERATION: Gray Ops
Play only if the Runner made a run during 
his or her last turn.
Do 1 net damage.
The trick isn’t hitting the person you were aiming at. 
It’s hitting only the person you were aiming at. 
]: Avoid receiving 1 tag.
“I get the feeling that this is the wrong place, 
Frank.”
“What makes you say that, D?”
“The curlers.”
RESOURCE: Connection
Decoy
Illus. Mauricio Hererra
Wyrm
3<: Break ice subroutine on a piece of ice 
with 0 or less strength.
1<: Ice has –1 strength.
Fire and ichor...
 
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - AI
Illus. Sandara Tang
[: Draw 1 card from your 
stack.
[: Gain 1<.
[: Install a program, piece of 
hardware, or resource.
[: Play an event.
[, 2<: Remove 1 tag.
[: Make a run.
Runner Actions
[: Draw 1 card from R&D.
[: Gain 1<.
[: Install an agenda, asset, 
upgrade or piece of ice.
[: Play an operation.
[, 1<: Advance a card.
[, [, [: Purge virus 
counters.
[, 2<: Trash1resource if the 
Runner is tagged.
Corp Actions
One credit
Advancement
Tag
Bad publicity

Setup
To prepare a game of Android: Netrunner, carefully follow the 
steps below. 
1.	 Choose Sides: The players decide who will play as the 
Runner and who will play as the Corporation. Then, each 
player places his identity card faceup in his play area and 
takes a corresponding deck.

Note: New players should use the Shaper and Jinteki starter 
decks for their first game.
2.	 Create Token Bank: Gather the credits, advancement, brain 
damage, tag, bad publicity, and generic tokens into piles. 
Keep these piles within reach of both players.
3.	 Collect Starting Credits: Each player takes five credits from 
the bank.
4.	 Shuffle Decks: Each player shuffles his deck. After shuffling, 
each player offers his deck to his opponent for further 
shuffling.
5.	 Draw Starting Hands: Each player draws five cards from 
the top of his deck to form his starting hand. After drawing 
starting hands, the Corporation may choose to take a 
mulligan by shuffling his hand back into his deck and 
then drawing a new starting hand. After the Corporation 
decides whether to mulligan, the Runner decides whether to 
mulligan as well. If a player takes a mulligan, he must keep 
his second hand as his starting hand. When the players are 
satisfied with their starting hands, each player places his deck 
facedown in his play area.
Important Vocabulary 
Players should become familiar with the following terms before 
reading the rest of the rules. Refer to the “Glossary” on page 30 
to look up other terms as needed.
Active: An active card’s abilities affect the game and can be 
triggered.
Inactive: An inactive card’s abilities do not affect the game 
and cannot be triggered.
Install: This is the game term for playing a card onto the 
table. 
Credit: This is the basic unit of wealth, represented by <.
Click: This is the basic unit of work, represented by [.
Rez: This is the act of flipping a facedown card faceup. The 
Corporation installs his cards facedown and must rez them in 
order to use them. 
Starter Decks
The game can be enjoyed straight out of the box by 
building starter decks to play with. 
To make a starter deck, take all the cards of a single 
Corporate or Runner faction and shuffle in all of the 
neutral cards for the chosen side. Starter decks are 
quick to build and are legal for tournament play.
Below are the card numbers for the Corporate 
factions, Runner factions, and Neutral cards that 
appear in the core set:
Corporation:
Haas-Bioroid Cards #54-66
Jinteki Cards #67-79
NBN Cards #80-92
Weyland	 Cards #93-105
Neutral Cards #106-113
Runner:
Anarch Cards #1-16
Criminal Cards #17-32
Shaper Cards #33-48
Neutral Cards #49-53
This symbol identifies cards 
included in the core set. 
Every card in the core set 
has this symbol next to its 
card number.
These boxes represent the 
quantity of a card in the 
core set and appear to the 
left of the core set symbol.
The Golden Rule
If the text of a card directly conflicts with the rules 
in this book, the card text takes precedence. 

Runner Play Area
In addition to his credit pool, identity card, score area, and click 
tracker, the Runner’s play area includes his grip, his stack, his 
heap, and his rig.
Grip
This is the Runner’s hand of cards. The Runner begins the game 
with a maximum hand size of five cards. Cards in the grip are 
inactive. 
Stack 
This is the Runner’s draw deck. The stack is kept facedown 
within reach of the Runner. Cards in the stack are inactive.
Heap
This is the Runner’s trash pile. The heap is kept adjacent to the 
Runner’s identity card. This is where Runner cards are placed 
when they are trashed or discarded. Cards in the heap are 
faceup and inactive. Both the Runner and Corporation may 
look through the heap at any time, but must maintain the order 
of its cards.
Rig
This is where the Runner installs his cards. The rig is separated 
into three rows: one for programs, one for hardware, and one 
for resources. Cards in the rig are active.
Corporation Play Area
In addition to his credit pool, identity card, score area, and click 
tracker, the Corporation’s play area includes his servers and 
his ice. There are two types of servers: central servers and 
remote servers. 
Central Servers
The Corporation has three central servers: Headquarters, 
Research and Development, and Archives. Each central 
server also has a root.
Headquarters (HQ)- This is the Corporation’s hand of 
cards. Cards in HQ are inactive. The Corporation begins the 
game with a maximum hand size of five cards. The Corporation 
identity card represents HQ for the purposes of card 
installation.
Research and Development (R&D)-
This is the Corporation’s draw deck. R&D is kept facedown 
within reach of the Corporation. Cards in R&D are inactive.
Archives- This is the Corporation’s trash pile. Archives is 
kept adjacent to R&D. This is where Corporation cards are 
placed when they are trashed or discarded. Cards in 
Archives are inactive.
Some cards enter Archives faceup, and some cards enter 
Archives facedown. Facedown cards in Archives should be 
oriented horizontally so that the Runner can easily see them. 
Both the Corporation and Runner may look through the 
faceup cards stored in Archives at any time, and do not need to 
maintain the order of its cards while doing so. The Corporation 
can also look at the facedown cards in Archives at any time; the 
Runner cannot.
Root- This is the area of a central server where upgrades 
for the server are installed. When an upgrade is installed in the 
root, it should be placed below the server. If a root has no cards 
installed in it, it is considered to be empty.
Remote Servers
The Corporation has no remote servers at the beginning of the 
game. The Corporation creates remote servers by installing 
cards. Cards in remote servers are active if rezzed and inactive 
if unrezzed.
There is no limit to the number of remote servers the 
Corporation can have at any given time.
The Corporation installs ice to protect his servers. Installed ice 
is always dedicated to a particular server and placed in front 
of that server. Ice can protect an empty server. Ice is active if 
rezzed and inactive if unrezzed.
Play Areas
In Android: Netrunner, the play areas for the Corporation and 
the Runner differ significantly from one another. However, both 
players have a credit pool, identity card, score area, and click 
tracker.
Credit Pool
Each player has a credit pool where he keeps the credit tokens 
he has available to spend. Spent credits are returned to the 
token bank.
Identity Card
Each player has an identity card that is placed faceup in his play 
area. The identity card does not count toward his maximum 
hand or deck size, and is always active during the game.
Score Area
Each player has a score area that holds his scored or stolen 
agendas. Agendas in a score area add their agenda points to a 
player’s score. 
Click Tracker
Each player has a click tracker that he uses to track the number 
of clicks left that he has to spend on his turn. This is a game aid 
only and its use is optional.

CLICK TRACKER
CREDIT POOL
SCORE AREA
REMOTE SERVER
CORPORATION
PLAY AREA
RUNNER
PLAY AREA
Program 
Hardware 
Resource 
CLICK TRACKER
SCORE AREA
HEAP
STACK
CREDIT POOL
TOKEN BANK
IDENTITY CARD
R&D
HQ
ARCHIVES
REMOTE SERVER
ROOT
IDENTITY CARD
RIG
HQ

Corporation Identity Card
Identity cards indicate which identity the Corporation has 
assumed. 
The Corporation identity card defines the Corporation’s faction 
and describes the identity’s special ability. It also provides a 
minimum deck size that must be observed when deckbuilding 
(8) and the amount of influence available for spending on out-
of-faction cards (9). See “Deckbuilding” on page 24 for more 
information.
Note: The Corporation’s identity card also represents his 
HQ for the purposes of card installation: ice protecting HQ 
is installed in front of the Corporation’s identity card, and 
upgrades installed in the root of HQ are installed behind the 
Corporation’s identity card.
Agendas
Agendas are valuable pieces of the Corporation’s data, and 
are the only cards in 
 that are worth 
agenda points.
The Corporation installs agendas in remote servers. Agendas 
are the only cards in the game worth agenda points (11). 
Agendas have an advancement requirement (10) that must be 
met before the Corporation can score them (see “Advancing a 
Card” on page 14).
Agendas cannot be rezzed and are only active while in a score 
area. There can be only one agenda or one asset installed in a 
remote server at a time.
Operations
Operations represent singular occurrences and are always 
trashed after being played.
The Corporation pays credits equal to the play cost (1) of an 
operation to play it. When played, an operation’s abilities as 
listed in its text box (4) are resolved. Then, the operation is 
immediately trashed. Operations are never installed.
There are six types of Corporation cards: identities, operations, 
agendas, ice, upgrades, and assets. All cards except the identity 
card are shuffled into the Corporation’s deck at the beginning 
of the game. Corporation cards are installed facedown, and are 
inactive unless rezzed (see “Rezzed and Unrezzed Cards” on 
page 12).
Corporation Cards
AstroScript Pilot Program
Place 1 agenda counter on AstroScript 
Pilot Program when you score it.
Hosted agenda counter: Place 
1 advancement token on a card that can be 
IDENTITY:
Personal Evolution
Megacorp
Whenever an agenda is scored or stolen, 
do 1 net damage.
When You Need the Human Touch.
Beanstalk Royalties
Illus. Jonathan Lee
OPERATION: Transaction
Gain 3<.
The New Angeles Space Elevator, better known as the 
Beanstalk, is the single greatest triumph of human 
engineering and ingenuity in history. The Beanstalk 
makes Earth orbit accessible to everyone…for a small 
fee. 
Corporation Card Anatomy Key
Rez cost
Trash cost
Strength
Agenda 
points
value
Set info
Minimum 
deck size
Advancement 
requirement
limit
Play cost
Text box
Faction 
affiliation
Title/Subtitle
Card type: 
Subtype

Upgrades
Upgrades are improvements to a server that provide the 
Corporation with a wide variety of benefits and bonuses. 
The Corporation installs upgrades in remote servers or the 
roots of central servers. Upgrades are the only card type that 
can be installed in the root of a central server. An upgrade is 
not active until it is rezzed by paying credits equal to its rez cost 
There is no limit to the number of upgrades that can be 
installed in a server. When the Runner accesses an upgrade, he 
can trash it by paying credits equal to its trash cost (13).
Ice defends the Corporation’s servers against intrusions by 
the Runner. 
The Corporation installs ice in front of any server. Ice is not 
active until it is rezzed by paying credits equal to its rez cost 
A piece of ice has one or more subroutines (|) in its text 
box (4) that the Runner must break during a run or suffer their 
effects (see “Ice” on page 16) if the ice is rezzed.
Assets
Assets provide the Corporation with resources and 
connections that help him advance and score his agendas. 
The Corporation installs assets in remote servers. An asset is 
not active until it is rezzed by paying credits equal to its rez cost 
Some assets can also be advanced, giving them the appearance 
of agendas and potentially misleading the Runner. When the 
Runner accesses an asset, he can trash it by paying credits equal 
to its trash cost (13).
There can be only one agenda or one asset installed in a remote 
server at a time.
Ghost Branch
Ghost Branch can be advanced. 
When the Runner accesses Ghost Branch, 
you may give the Runner 1 tag for each 
advancement token on Ghost Branch.
Illus. Gong Studios
ASSET: Ambush - Facility
◆ Akitaro Watanabe
UPGRADE: Sysop - Unorthodox
The rez cost of ice protecting this server is 
lowered by 2. 
Just don’t ask how he does it. 
Ice Wall
ICE: Barrier
Ice Wall can be advanced and has 
+1 strength for each advancement 
token on it.
“I asked for ice as impenetrable as a wall. I 
can’t decide if someone down in R&D has a 
warped sense of humor or just a very literal 
mind.” -Liz Campbell, VP Project Security

Runner Cards
There are five types of Runner cards: identities, hardware, 
resources, programs, and events. All cards except the identity 
card are shuffled into the Runner’s deck at the beginning of the 
game. Runner cards are always active while installed.
Runner Identity Card
Identity cards indicate which identity the Runner has 
assumed. 
The Runner identity card defines the Runner’s faction and 
describes the identity’s special ability. It also provides a 
minimum deck size that must be observed when constructing a 
deck (6), and the amount of influence available for spending on 
out-of-faction cards (7). See “Deckbuilding” on page 24 for 
more information.
Hardware
Hardware is the array of physical tools at the Runner’s 
disposal. 
The Runner installs hardware in his rig by paying an install cost 
There is no limit to the amount of hardware the Runner can 
install in his rig.
◆Desperado
HARDWARE: Console
Illus. Outland Entertainment LLC
+@
Gain 1< whenever you make a successful 
Limit 1 console per player.
Resources
Resources are a wide variety of connections, assets, and skills 
that aid the Runner.
The Runner installs resources in his rig by paying an install cost 
There is no limit to the number of resources the Runner can 
install in his rig.
When the Runner is tagged (see “Tags” on page 20), 
resources may be trashed by the Corporation. 
IDENTITY:
Noise 
Hacker Extraordinaire
Whenever you install a virus program, 
the Corp trashes the top card of 
R&D. 
“Watch this. It’ll be funny.”
G-mod
Illus. Ralph Beisner
Place 12< from the bank on Armitage 
Codebusting when it is installed. When 
there are no credits left on Armitage 
Codebusting, trash it.
[: Take 2< from Armitage 
Codebusting.
Drudge work, but it pays the bills.
RESOURCE: Job
Armitage Codebusting
Runner Card Anatomy Key
Strength
Play cost
Set info
Base link
Install cost
Minimum
deck size
limit
value
Card type:
Subtype
Title/Subtitle
Memory cost
Faction
affiliation
Text box

Events
Events represent singular occurrences and are always trashed 
after being played.
The Runner pays credits equal to the play cost (13) of an event 
to play it. When played, an event’s abilities as listed in its text 
box are resolved. Then, the event is immediately trashed. Events 
are never installed.
Programs
Programs are digital tools at the Runner’s disposal, primarily 
used as a means of intrusion. 
The Runner installs programs in his rig by paying an install cost 
Programs are the only card type that have a memory cost (11). 
The memory cost of his installed programs can never exceed his 
current memory limit (see “Programs” on page 15). 
The Runner uses a program subtype called an icebreaker (4) 
to break ice subroutines during runs (see “Icebreakers” on page 
16). An icebreaker’s strength (12) must be equal to or greater 
than the ice it is interacting with. 
Modded
Install a program or a piece of hardware, 
lowering the install cost by 3.
There’s no replacement for a home-grown program. 
Fed on late nights, oaty bars, and single-minded 
determination. Cheaper, too.
EVENT: Mod
Illus. Ralph Beisner
Corroder
1<: Break barrier subroutine.
“If at first you don’t succeed, boost its strength and try 
again.” -g00ru
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - Fracter
Paid Abilities
Some card abilities have trigger costs that a player 
must pay before the effect of the ability can be 
resolved. These abilities are called paid abilities. A 
card’s trigger cost is always listed in its text box before 
the effect, following the format “cost: effect.” 
The most common costs are spending clicks ([), 
spending credits (<), trashing the card (]), and 
spending hosted counters. Some effects feature a 
combination of costs.
Example: The Runner card Datasucker has the text 
“Hosted virus counter: Rezzed piece of ice currently 
being encountered has –1 strength until the end of 
the encounter.” The Runner must spend 1 of the virus 
counters on Datasucker (returning it to the token bank) 
in order to trigger this ability, after which the strength 
of the chosen ice is lowered by 1.
If the player cannot pay the full cost of an ability, he 
cannot trigger it.
Unique Cards
Some cards have a unique symbol (◆) in front of 
their title. There can be only one unique card of the 
same title active at a time. If a card with a unique 
title becomes active, any other card that shares its 
title is immediately trashed. This trashing cannot be 
prevented.

Playing the Game
In Android: Netrunner, the Corporation and the Runner 
alternate taking turns. Android: Netrunner is unusual in that the 
Runner and the Corporation are governed by different rules. 
Players should familiarize themselves with the rules for both 
sides.
The Corporation always takes the first turn of the game.
Turn Overview
Each player, during his turn, takes actions by spending clicks. 
A player can only spend his clicks during his own Action phase, 
and he must spend all of his clicks in each Action phase. The 
Corporation begins his turn with three clicks ([ [ [) and 
the Runner begins his turn with four clicks ( [ [ [ [). 
Corporation’s Turn
The Corporation’s turn consists of three phases, which he 
performs in the following order:
1.	 Draw Phase: The Corporation draws one card from R&D.
2.	 Action Phase: The Corporation has [ [ [ with which to 
perform actions.
3.	 Discard Phase: The Corporation discards down to his 
maximum hand size, if necessary.
1. Draw Phase
The Corporation draws the top card of R&D. This does not cost 
the Corporation any clicks. 
Note: If the Corporation’s R&D is empty when he attempts to 
draw a card, the Runner immediately wins the game.
2. Action Phase
In his Action phase, the Corporation takes actions by spending 
[ [ [. He can only take actions during his Action phase, and 
he must spend all three of his clicks during his Action phase. 
The Corporation can perform any of the following actions as 
many times as he likes, and in any combination, provided he 
can pay for them. These are listed in the format of “cost: effect.” 
• [: Draw one card from R&D.
• [: Gain 1< (one credit).
• [: Install an agenda, asset, upgrade, or piece of ice.
• [: Play an operation.
• [, 1<: Advance a card.
• [, 2<: Trash a resource in the Runner’s rig if the Runner 
is tagged.
• [ [ [: Purge virus counters.
• Trigger a [ ability on an active card (cost varies).
Whenever the Corporation spends clicks on one of these 
actions, he is considered to be taking an action and cannot take 
another action until the current action fully resolves. 
When the Corporation has spent all of his clicks, his Action 
phase ends and his Discard phase begins.
• Agendas, assets, and upgrades are always installed in a 
vertical orientation. 
• Ice is always installed in a horizontal orientation.
Aggressive Secretary
Aggressive Secretary can be advanced. 
If you pay 2< when the Runner accesses 
Aggressive Secretary, trash 1 program for 
each advancement token on Aggressive 
Secretary.
Illus. Julian Totino Tedesco
ASSET: Ambush
Rezzed and Unrezzed Cards
The Corporation’s installed cards have two play states: 
rezzed, which means that the card is faceup and 
active, and unrezzed, which means that the card 
is facedown and inactive. The Corporation can look 
at his unrezzed cards at any time. To rez an installed 
card, the Corporation pays its rez cost and turns the 
card faceup. 
Note: Rezzing a card does not cost the Corporation a 
click. 
To organize this hidden information for both players, 
it is important that the Corporation observes the 
following rules for card orientation: 
Installed Asset (rezzed)
Installed Ice (unrezzed)

Drawing One Card
For [, the Corporation draws the top card of R&D and adds it 
to HQ.
Gaining One Credit
For [, the Corporation takes 1< from the bank and adds it to 
his credit pool.
Installing Cards
For [, the Corporation installs a single agenda, asset, upgrade, 
or piece of ice from HQ, placing it facedown on the table. 
Note: When an asset or upgrade is installed, the Corporation 
can pay its rez cost to rez it at almost any time (see the “Timing 
Structures” on pages 32-33). Ice can only be rezzed when the 
Runner approaches it during a run (see “Approaching Ice” on 
page 17).
When installing a card in a server, the Corporation can first 
trash any cards already installed in that server. Trashed cards go 
to Archives faceup if they are rezzed, and facedown if they are 
unrezzed. 
If the Corporation chooses to create a remote server when 
installing a card, he installs the card by placing it facedown in 
a discrete location in his play area. Agendas, assets, upgrades, 
and ice can all be used to create a new remote server. If the 
Corporation creates a remote server by installing ice, the server 
exists, but is considered to be empty. An empty server can still 
be run against by the Runner.
Note: Installed cards cannot be rearranged or mixed-up by 
either player except through card effects. 
The following entries describe the installation restrictions and 
associated costs of each card type:
Agendas– An agenda can only be installed in a remote 
server. After an agenda is installed, the Corporation can 
advance and ultimately score it (see “Advancing a Card” on page 
14).
Note: A remote server can have only one agenda or asset 
installed in it at a time.
If the Corporation wants to install an agenda in a remote server 
that has an asset or an agenda already installed in it, he can 
install the card but must trash the existing card first as part 
of the install action. The Corporation does not have to trash 
upgrades in order to install an agenda or an asset.
Assets– An asset can only be installed in a remote server. 
If the Corporation wants to install an agenda in a remote server 
that has an asset or an agenda already installed in it, he can 
install the card but must trash the existing card first as part of 
the install action. 
Upgrades– An upgrade can be installed in any server. When 
an upgrade is installed in a central server, it is installed in the 
central server’s root. 
Unlike an agenda or asset, there is no limit to the number of 
upgrades the Corporation can install in any server, central or 
remote. 
Note: The Corporation can only have one upgrade with the 
region subtype installed per server or server root, as listed in 
the text box of these cards.
Ice– Ice can be installed in front of any server in order to 
protect that server. After a piece of ice is installed in front of 
a server, it is dedicated to that server and cannot be moved or 
rearranged. 
When the Corporation installs a piece of ice, he must install 
it in the outermost position in front of the server and pay 
an install cost equal to the number of pieces of ice already 
protecting that server. The outermost position is the position 
farthest from the server, in front of any other pieces of ice that 
are protecting the server. 
When installing ice, the Corporation can first trash any ice 
protecting that server in order to reduce the install cost. Then, 
he installs the new piece of ice in the outermost position in 
front of the server.

Install 
Example
This remote server 
has a rezzed asset 
installed in it, 
protected by two 
pieces of ice. If 
the Corporation 
wants to install 
a third piece of 
ice to protect this 
server, he will have 
to pay 2< (one for 
each piece of ice 
already installed) 
and place it in 
front of Ice Wall 
in the outermost 
position. The 
Corporation can 
trash one or both 
pieces of ice before 
installing to lower 
this cost.
Ice Wall
ICE: Barrier
Ice Wall can be advanced and has 
+1 strength for each advancement 
token on it.
“I asked for ice as impenetrable as a wall. I 
can’t decide if someone down in R&D has a 
warped sense of humor or just a very literal 
mind.” -Liz Campbell, VP Project Security
Security Subcontract
[, trash a rezzed piece of ice: Gain 4<.
“Feed the Feds our scraps, and they’ll come back 
begging for more.” 
ASSET: Transaction

Playing Operations
For [, the Corporation plays an operation from his hand by 
paying its play cost. He then places it faceup in his play area, 
immediately resolves the effects of the operation, and trashes it.
Advancing a Card
For [ and 1<, the Corporation adds one advancement token 
to an installed card. Agendas can always be advanced while 
installed. Cards other than agendas can only be advanced if 
their text box allows it. There is no limit to the number of times 
a card can be advanced. 
Note: If a card’s text box says that the card can be advanced, the 
card can be advanced even when the card is unrezzed.
Scoring Agendas– When the number of advancement 
tokens on an agenda is equal to or higher than its advancement 
requirement, the agenda is fully advanced and the 
Corporation can score it. The only times the Corporation can 
score an agenda is right before his turn begins, or after he 
completes an action. 
To score an agenda, the Corporation turns it faceup and 
places it in his score area, resolving any conditional abilities 
on the agenda that use the language “When you score.” The 
Corporation cannot score an agenda until it is fully advanced. 
Scoring an agenda does not cost a click and is not an action.
While an agenda is in the Corporation’s score area, it is active 
and adds its agenda points to his score.
Delayed Scoring– An agenda sometimes has an ability 
that rewards advancement beyond the agenda’s advancement 
requirement, or an ability that encourages the Corporation to 
delay scoring the agenda. The Corporation is not required to 
score an agenda immediately upon satisfying its advancement 
requirement. He may instead advance it more, or wait for a 
more opportune time to score it. 
Trashing a Runner’s Resource
If the Runner is tagged, the Corporation can spend [ and 2< 
to choose one of the Runner’s resources and trash it (see “Tags” 
on page 20).
Purging Virus Counters 
For [ [ [, the Corporation removes all virus counters 
hosted (see “Hosting” on page 22) on cards, returning them 
to the token bank.
Triggering [ Abilities
Some cards have abilities with trigger costs that require the 
Corporation to spend one or more clicks. These abilities list the 
[ icon in their trigger cost, and the Corporation can trigger 
these abilities only during his Action phase. 
3. Discard Phase
The Corporation begins the game with a maximum hand size 
of five cards, but card effects can increase or decrease this limit. 
If the cards in HQ exceed the Corporation’s current maximum 
hand size at the beginning of the Discard phase, he must 
discard down to his maximum hand size. 
If the Corporation must discard more than one card from HQ, 
he chooses and discards cards from HQ one at a time until he is 
no longer above his current maximum hand size. 
Cards discarded from HQ are always sent to Archives 
facedown, regardless of whether they have been previously 
accessed by the Runner.
After the Corporation completes his Discard phase, the Runner 
begins his turn.
Advancing Assets
Some assets can be advanced. Advancing assets gives 
them the appearance of being agendas. This can be 
useful in bluffing the Runner into making runs which 
are not beneficial to him. 
Trashing and Discarding
A discarded card is not considered to have been 
trashed, and vice versa. Cards that prevent a card 
from being trashed cannot prevent a card from being 
discarded.

Runner’s Turn
The Runner’s turn is divided into two phases, which he 
performs in the following order:
1.	 Action Phase: The Runner has [ [ [ [ with which to 
perform actions.
2.	 Discard Phase: The Runner discards down to his maximum 
hand size, if necessary.
1. Action Phase
In his Action phase, the Runner takes actions by 
spending [ [ [ [. He can only take actions during his 
Action phase, and he must spend all four of his clicks during his 
Action phase. 
The Runner can perform any of the following actions as many 
times as he likes, and in any combination, provided he can pay 
for them. These are listed in the format of “cost: effect.” 
• [: Draw one card from the stack.
• [: Gain 1<.
• [: Install a program, resource, or piece of hardware.
• [: Play an event.
• [, 2<: Remove one tag.
• [: Make a run.
• Trigger a [ ability on an active card (cost varies).
Whenever the Runner spends clicks on one of these actions, he 
is considered to be taking an action and cannot take another 
action until the current action fully resolves. 
When the Runner has spent all of his clicks, his Action phase 
ends and his Discard phase begins.
Drawing One Card
For [, the Runner draws the top card from his stack and adds 
it to his grip.
Gaining One Credit
For [, the Runner takes 1< from the bank and adds it to his 
credit pool.
Installing Cards
For [, the Runner installs a single program, resource, or piece 
of hardware faceup in his rig. An installed Runner card is active 
and does not have to be rezzed like a Corporation card.
Note: The Runner’s cards are always installed faceup and in a 
vertical orientation.
Programs– To install a program, the Runner pays the 
program’s install cost and places it in his program row. Each 
program also has a memory cost. The Runner cannot have 
programs installed that have a combined memory cost greater 
than his available memory units (MU). The Runner begins 
the game with four MU, though certain card effects can increase 
or decrease this value.
If the MU costs of the Runner’s installed programs ever exceed 
his available MU, he must trash his installed programs until he 
is no longer exceeding his available MU. 
The Runner can choose to trash any number of his installed 
programs at the beginning of an install program action.
Resources– To install a resource, the Runner pays the 
resource’s install cost and places it in his resource row.
There is no limit to the number of resources a Runner can have 
installed.
Hardware– To install a piece of hardware, the Runner pays 
the hardware’s install cost and places it in his hardware row.
There is no limit to the amount of hardware a Runner can have 
installed. 
Note: The Runner can only have one piece of hardware with the 
console subtype installed at a time, as listed in the text box of 
these cards.
Playing Events
For [, the Runner plays an event from his hand by paying its 
play cost. He then places it faceup in his play area, immediately 
resolves the effects of the event, and trashes it.
Removing Tags
For [ and 2<, the Runner removes one of his tags.
Making a Run
For [, the Runner initiates a run against the Corporation (see 
“Runs” on page 16) in order to steal the Corporation’s agendas 
and trash his cards.
Triggering [ Abilities
Some cards have abilities with trigger costs that require the 
Runner to spend one or more clicks. These abilities list the 
[ icon in their trigger cost, and the Runner can trigger these 
abilities only during his Action phase. 
2. Discard Phase
The Runner begins the game with a maximum hand size of five 
cards, but card effects can increase or decrease this limit (see 
“Brain Damage” on page 20). If the cards in the Runner’s grip 
exceed his current maximum hand size at the beginning of the 
Discard phase, he must discard down to his maximum hand 
size.
If the Runner must discard more than one card from his grip, 
he chooses and discards cards from his grip one at a time until 
he is no longer above his current maximum hand size. 
After the Runner completes his Discard phase, the Corporation 
begins his turn.

Runs
Runs are the heart of Android: Netrunner, and provide 
opportunities for the Runner to steal the Corporation’s agendas 
and trash his cards. In a run, the Runner attacks one of the 
Corporation’s servers in an attempt to access cards, using his 
installed programs to help him pass the Corporation’s ice.
Because most runs pit the Runner’s installed icebreaker 
programs against the Corporation’s installed ice, it is vital that 
both players understand the functions and subtypes of the 
Corporation’s ice and the Runner’s icebreakers.
Ice is defensive software the Corporation installs in front of 
his servers to protect his valuable data. There are four main 
subtypes that can appear on a piece of ice: sentry, barrier, 
code gate, and trap. Ice also has separate abilities called 
subroutines.
Subroutines
Subroutines are abilities of a piece of ice marked by the | 
symbol. If the Runner encounters a piece of rezzed ice and does 
not or cannot break its subroutines, the unbroken subroutines 
trigger and resolve one by one.
In addition to preventing the Runner’s access to the 
Corporation’s servers by ending his run, subroutines can 
pose other hazards if allowed to trigger, such as damaging the 
Runner or initiating trace attempts (see “Traces and Tags” on 
page 20).

Icebreakers
Icebreakers are programs with the icebreaker subtype that 
the Runner can use to overcome ice encountered during a run. 
Each icebreaker has a strength, an install cost, and one or more 
subtypes that reflect which kind of ice subroutine it is designed 
to break. 
The Runner uses icebreakers to interact with and break 
subroutines on ice. An icebreaker can only interact with ice that 
has equal or lower strength than the icebreaker. 
In addition to this strength requirement, many icebreaker 
abilities can only be used to break subroutines on particular 
subtypes of ice. For example, an icebreaker that has the ability 
“1<: Break barrier subroutine” can only use this ability to break 
subroutines on a piece of ice with the barrier subtype. It does 
not matter if the ice has additional subtypes, provided it has any 
subtypes referred to by the icebreaker’s ability. If an ability does 
not restrict itself to a subtype (i.e., “Break ice subroutine”), it 
can be used against any piece of ice.

Increasing an Icebreaker’s Strength
Many icebreakers allow the Runner to temporarily increase the 
icebreaker’s strength by spending credits. This helps the Runner 
deal with stronger pieces of ice, provided he has enough credits 
to spend. This strength increase lasts only while the current 
piece of ice is being encountered, unless otherwise noted 
by card abilities. After an encounter with a piece of ice, the 
icebreaker’s strength returns to the value shown on its card. This 
applies to any other strength modifiers given by icebreakers as 
well.
A piece 
of ice
An icebreaker
Corroder
1<: Break barrier subroutine.
“If at first you don’t succeed, boost its strength and try 
again.” -g00ru
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - Fracter

Phases of a Run
Runs typically transpire in three phases. Not every run will 
include all of these phases. Players are encouraged to use the 
following text in combination with the “Timing Structure of 
a Run” diagram on page 33 in order to fully understand the 
intricacies of runs.
1. Initiation Phase
2. Confrontation Phase
3. Access Phase
1. Initiation Phase
To initiate a run, the Runner declares the server that he 
is attacking. The Runner can only initiate a run against a 
single server per run action.
After the Runner declares the server he is attacking, he 
gains 1< to spend during the run for each point of bad 
publicity the Corporation has. Then, both players check to 
see if there is ice protecting the attacked server. 
If there is ice protecting the server, the run proceeds to the 
Confrontation phase. 
If there is no ice protecting the server, the run proceeds to 
the Access phase. 
2. Confrontation Phase
The Confrontation phase consists of approaching a 
piece of ice and then potentially encountering that 
ice. A Runner approaches each piece of ice protecting the 
server one at a time, starting with the outermost piece. The 
Runner must pass each piece of ice in order to approach 
the next piece of ice protecting the server, continuing until 
all pieces of ice have been passed or until the run ends. 
If the Runner passes all pieces of ice protecting the attacked 
server, the run proceeds to the Access phase. 
Approaching Ice 
When the Runner approaches a piece of ice, he must first decide 
whether he wishes to continue the run or jack out. If he 
decides to jack out, he ends his run and the run is considered 
unsuccessful. The Runner cannot jack out while approaching 
the first piece of ice during a run. 
If the Runner decides to continue instead of jacking out, the 
Corporation has the opportunity to rez the approached piece of 
ice and any other non-ice cards. 
Note: The Corporation can only rez ice when it is approached.
If the approached piece of ice is rezzed after the Corporation 
has the opportunity to rez cards, then the Runner encounters it.
If after rezzing cards the approached piece of ice is not rezzed, 
then the Runner passes it. He then continues the run by 
either approaching the next piece of ice protecting the server 
or proceeding to the Access phase if there is no more ice to 
approach.
Bad Publicity
Some cards and events in 
Android: Netrunner give the 
Corporation bad publicity. For 
each point of bad publicity 
the Corporation has, the Runner gains 1< at the 
beginning of each run. The Runner may spend these 
credits during his run as if they were in his credit 
pool, but any unspent bad publicity credits return to 
the bank at the end of the run. Bad publicity always 
generates revenue for the Runner at the beginning of 
a run, even when the Runner makes multiple runs in 
a single turn.
OUTERMOST
ORDER OF APPROACH
INNERMOST
Zaibatsu Loyalty
If the Runner is about to expose a card, 
you may rez Zaibatsu Loyalty. 
1< or ]: Prevent 1 card from being 
exposed.
ASSET
Approach Example
REMOTE 
SERVER

Encountering Ice
When the Runner encounters a piece of ice, he has the 
opportunity to break any subroutines on that piece of ice. After 
the Runner finishes breaking any subroutines that he wishes 
to break, each unbroken subroutine on that ice triggers in the 
order as listed on the card. If a subroutine ends the run, then 
the run ends immediately and no further subroutines on that 
piece of ice trigger.
Breaking Subroutines– To break a subroutine, the 
Runner uses abilities on his installed icebreakers. The Runner 
can break the subroutines on the encountered ice in any order 
he chooses. There is no limit to the number of installed cards 
a Runner can use to interact with the encountered ice, but he 
generally only needs one icebreaker. Remember that before 
an icebreaker can interact with a piece of ice, the icebreaker’s 
strength must be equal to or higher than the encountered ice’s 
strength.
Note: Breaking all subroutines on a piece of ice does not mean 
the ice is trashed. A passed piece of ice remains installed and is 
approached during every subsequent run against the server it 
protects.
After the Runner breaks all of the ice’s subroutines and/or any 
effects from unbroken subroutines resolve without ending the 
run, he has passed that piece of ice. He then continues the run 
by either approaching the next piece of ice protecting the server 
or proceeding to the Access phase if there is no more ice to 
approach.
3. Access Phase
After the Runner has passed all of the ice protecting the 
attacked server, he has one final opportunity to jack out. If he 
chooses to continue, the Corporation has one final opportunity 
to rez cards. After rezzing cards, the run is considered to be 
successful and the Runner accesses the Corporation’s cards 
by looking at them. The type of server attacked determines the 
degree and method of access, and the Runner must access cards 
according to the following rules:
• R&D: The Runner accesses the top card of R&D, and any 
upgrades in its root. Unless the Runner scores, trashes, or is 
forced by a card’s text to reveal the card, he does not show 
cards accessed from R&D to the Corporation.
• HQ: The Runner accesses one random card from HQ and any 
upgrades in its root. Any cards the Runner does not score or 
trash return to HQ. 
• Archives: The Runner accesses all cards in Archives and any 
upgrades in its root. The Runner turns all cards faceup when 
accessing them, and does not need to keep them in order. The 
Runner steals all agendas in Archives and cannot trash cards 
that are already in Archives. After accessing Archives, all 
cards in Archives return to Archives faceup.
• Remote Server: The Runner accesses all cards in the server.
Note: Installed ice is not in a server and is never accessed.
Stealing Agendas
If the Runner accesses an agenda, he steals it and places it 
faceup in his score area, resolving any conditional abilities on 
the agenda that use the language “When you steal.” While an 
agenda is in the Runner’s score area, it adds its agenda points 
to his score. The Runner cannot decline to steal agendas he 
accesses. 
Trashing Cards
If the Runner accesses a card with a trash cost, he may pay 
credits equal to its trash cost in order to trash it to Archives 
faceup. 
Accessing Multiple Cards
When accessing multiple cards, the Runner accesses them one 
at a time in any order he likes. For example, the Runner may 
access a card from HQ, then an upgrade installed in the root of 
HQ, and then another card from HQ, if he has the ability to 
do so.
When accessing multiple cards from R&D, the Runner must 
draw them in order from the top of the deck, and must return 
any cards not scored or trashed in reverse order, so as to 
preserve their positions in R&D. 
The Runner must fully resolve his access to a card (steal it, pay 
to trash it, etc.) before accessing the next card. If the Runner 
scores an agenda that gives him seven or more points, he 
immediately wins the game, even if he would otherwise access 
more cards.
Concluding the Run
After the Runner has accessed all required cards, he returns 
any cards not stolen or trashed to their original play states. For 
example, an unrezzed card in a remote server returns facedown 
to that server, and a card accessed from HQ returns to HQ.
After a Runner finishes accessing cards, the run ends. The 
Runner returns any unspent bad publicity credits to the token 
bank, and the Runner resumes his Action phase.

Run Example
Spending his last click, Bart the Runner initiates a run 
against Olivia’s remote server. Bart has a Gordian Blade, 
Crypsis, Sacrificial Construct, and The Toolbox installed. 
He has 5<. The remote server has two unrezzed cards in it 
and three pieces of ice protecting it, one rezzed. One of the 
cards has an advancement counter on it. Olivia has 7<.
Since the first piece of ice protecting the attacked server 
is rezzed, Bart must encounter it. The Gordian Blade 
is already at strength 2, and Bart spends 1< from The 
Toolbox to break Enigma’s second subroutine, “End the 
run,” and declares he is finished breaking subroutines (1). 
The first subroutine, “The Runner loses [, if able” resolves, 
but Bart has no clicks to lose. 
Since the ice was passed, Bart approaches the next piece 
of ice protecting the server and can either continue the 
run or jack out. He still has 5< in his credit pool and 1< 
on The Toolbox, and decides to continue. Olivia has the 
opportunity to rez cards, but declines to do so. Bart then 
passes that piece of ice and approaches the innermost piece 
of ice protecting the server.
Bart once again chooses to continue the run, feeling 
confident with his credits and his programs in play. 
Olivia, with 7<, again has the opportunity to rez cards. 
She decides to rez the upgrade installed in the server by 
spending 1<, and flips over Akitaro Watanabe (2). This 
leaves her with only 6<. Her third piece of ice is a Wall of 
Thorns. While normally this ice would be too expensive 
for her to rez, Akitaro Watanabe lowers the rez cost of ice 
protecting that server by 2. She rezzes the piece of ice by 
paying 6<, leaving her with no credits (3). 
Bart encounters Wall of Thorns, spending 1< from The 
Toolbox and 4< from his pool to boost the strength of 
Crypsis to 5 (4). With only 1< left he cannot break both 
subroutines on the Wall of Thorns. He breaks the “End the 
run” subroutine by spending 1< (5), and then must either 
remove 1 hosted virus counter from Crypsis or trash it. 
Since there are no virus counters on Crypsis, Bart decides 
to use his Sacrificial Construct and triggers its prevent 
effect, trashing it instead of Crypsis (6). 
The first subroutine on Wall of Thorns then triggers and 
resolves, doing 2 net damage. Bart must trash two random 
cards from his grip. He does so, leaving him with a single 
card.
Now that Bart has passed every piece of ice protecting the 
server, he has one last opportunity to jack out. He once 
again decides to continue the run. Olivia can now rez 
cards. Since the unrezzed card in the server is an agenda, 
she declines.
The run is then considered to be successful and Bart gets 
to access cards. The Runner chooses the order in which 
cards are accessed in, and Bart chooses the unrezzed card 
first. He flips over the agenda, steals it, and adds it to his 
score area (7), and then takes 1 net damage from Jinteki’s 
identity card ability. This trashes the last card from his 
grip. He then accesses the upgrade, but since he cannot pay 
the trash cost, Akitaro Watanabe remains installed. The 
run then ends.
1<: Break code gate subroutine.
1<: +1 strength for the remainder of this 
It can slice through the thickest knots of data. 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - Decoder
◆The Toolbox
+# +2~
2> 
Use these credits to pay for using 
icebreakers.
Limit 1 console per player.
HARDWARE: Console
Illus. Michael Hamlett
]: Prevent an installed program or an 
installed piece of hardware from being 
trashed.
The life expectancy of a jacked construct is about 
that of a mayfly. In other words, short.
RESOURCE: Remote
Sacrificial Construct
Crypsis
1<: Break ice subroutine.
[: Place 1 virus counter on Crypsis.
When an encounter with a piece of ice 
in which you used Crypsis to break a 
subroutine ends, remove 1 hosted virus 
counter or trash Crypsis.
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - AI - Virus
Enigma
ICE: Code Gate
| The Runner loses [, if able.
“Hey, hey! Wake up man. You were under a 
long time. What’d you see?” 
“I…don’t remember.” 
Illus. Liga Smilshkalne
◆ Akitaro Watanabe
UPGRADE: Sysop - Unorthodox
The rez cost of ice protecting this server is 
lowered by 2. 
Just don’t ask how he does it. 
Nisei MK II
Illus. Alexandra Douglass
Place 1 agenda counter on Nisei MK II 
when you score it.
Hosted agenda counter: End the run.

Traces and Tags
Though the Corporation spends much of the game repelling 
the Runner’s intrusions, traces and tags give the Corporation 
opportunities to attack the Runner.
Traces
Some card abilities initiate a trace on the Runner. Traces are 
marked by the language “TraceX” on a card, with X equaling 
the base trace strength of the trace. Traces pit the Corporation’s 
trace strength against the Runner’s link strength, both of which 
are increased by spending credits.
The Corporation acts first during a trace, openly spending any 
number of credits to increase his trace strength by one 
point for each credit he spends. There is no limit to the number 
of credits the Corporation can spend on the trace.
After the Corporation spends his credits, the Runner has 
the opportunity to openly spend credits to increase his link 
strength. The Runner’s base link strength is equal to the 
number of links (~) he has in play. The Runner increases his 
link strength by one point for each credit he spends. There is 
no limit to the number of credits the Runner can spend on the 
trace.
After the Runner finishes increasing his link strength, it is 
compared to the Corporation’s trace strength. If the trace 
strength exceeds the link strength, the trace is successful and 
any “If successful” effects associated with the trace are resolved. 
If the link strength is equal to or greater than the trace strength, 
then the trace is unsuccessful, and any “If unsuccessful” effects 
associated with the trace are resolved. 
Tags
Certain card effects result in a tag 
being placed on the Runner. As long 
as the Runner has at least one tag, he 
is considered to be tagged. While the 
Runner is tagged, the Corporation may, as an action, spend 
[ and 2< to trash one of the Runner’s resources. Certain card 
effects can also trigger off of the Runner being tagged, and it 
is usually dangerous for the Runner to remain tagged for very 
long.
While tagged, the Runner may, as an action, spend [ and 2< 
to remove the tag, returning it to the token bank. The Runner 
can repeat this action as many times he likes, provided he has 
the clicks and credits to pay its cost, and as long as he has a tag 
to remove.	
Damage
Many cards and ice subroutines inflict damage on the Runner. 
The Runner can receive the following three types of damage:
• Meat damage: The Runner randomly trashes one card from 
his grip for each point of meat damage done to him.
• Net damage: The Runner randomly trashes one card from 
his grip for each point of net damage done to him.
• Brain damage: The Runner randomly trashes one card 
from his grip for each point of brain damage done to him, 
and his maximum hand size is permanently reduced by one 
card. The Runner takes a brain damage token to track this.
Note: The only differences between net and meat damage are 
the cards that inflict and prevent them.
When the Runner trashes multiple cards for damage, the cards 
are placed in his heap in the order they were randomly trashed. 
If the Runner takes more damage than the number of cards in 
his grip, or if he has a maximum hand size of less than zero at 
the end of his turn, then he is flatlined and the Corporation 
wins the game. 
Winning the Game
If at any time a player has seven agenda points in his score area, 
he immediately wins the game.
If R&D contains no cards and the Corporation attempts to draw 
a card, the Runner immediately wins the game.
If the Runner is flatlined (see “Damage” above), the 
Corporation wins the game. 

Trace Example 
A Runner encounters Data Raven, and is unable to 
break the trace subroutine. The Runner’s identity card 
is Kate “Mac” McCaffrey (link of 1) and he has one 
copy of Access to Globalsec (link of 1) in his rig, for 
a base link strength of 2. The Data Raven has a base 
trace strength of 3, and the Corporation decides to 
spend 2<, increasing the Data Raven’s trace strength 
to 5. This means that the Runner would need to spend 
3< in order to make the trace unsuccessful. The 
Runner has 7< in his pool and decides to spend 3<, 
matching the Corporation’s trace strength. Because 
the trace was unsuccessful, no power counter is 
placed on Data Raven.

Conditional abilities- In order for a conditional ability 
to trigger, a trigger condition must be met. A conditional 
ability can only be resolved once per trigger condition. Trigger 
conditions commonly use the terms “When” or “Whenever” in 
their card text. An example of a conditional ability is the card 
PAD Campaign, which reads, “Gain 1< when your turn begins.”
If a conditional ability uses the word “may” in its description, 
it is an optional conditional ability. The decision to trigger the 
ability belongs to the player who controls the card, provided 
the ability’s trigger condition is met. If a conditional ability 
does not use the word “may” in its description, it is a required 
conditional ability. It must be triggered when its trigger 
condition is met, although the exact time of resolution may 
vary (see “Simultaneous Effects” on page 22).
Note: Ice subroutines are required conditional abilities that can 
be broken, in which case they do not resolve.
Other Terms and Concepts	
There are several other terms and concepts that players should 
know when resolving abilities.
Timing Priority
Whenever there is an opportunity to trigger paid abilities, rez 
cards and/or score agendas (usually at the beginning of a turn 
and after each action), the player who is currently taking his 
turn gets the first opportunity to act. He can trigger as many 
abilities, rez as many cards, and/or score as many agendas as 
he wishes in the order of his choosing. When he is finished, the 
other player gets the opportunity to act. When that player is 
finished, the first player gets the opportunity to act once again.
After both players have had at least one opportunity to act and 
a player declines to act, then the players cannot trigger more 
abilities, rez more cards, or score more agendas until the next 
opportunity to do so.
For more information on the intricacies of triggering card 
abilities, rezzing cards, and scoring agendas, consult the timing 
diagrams on pages 32-33. 
Prevent or Avoid
Some card abilities use the words “prevent” or “avoid.” Prevent 
or avoid effects are the only effects which can disrupt another 
effect. A prevent or avoid effect states what it is preventing 
or avoiding, and an effect that is prevented or avoided is not 
resolved. Prevent or avoid effects can be triggered whenever the 
effect they are preventing or avoiding is resolving.
Self-referential Language
Unless otherwise noted, a card with text that refers to its own 
card title only refers to itself and does not refer to other copies 
of cards with that title. 
Negative Effects
If an effect prohibits a player from doing something, usually by 
using the word “cannot,” it always takes precedence over other 
effects unless another effect explicitly overrides it.
Additional Rules
The following sections describe additional important rules and 
information not addressed in the previous sections.
Card Abilities
There are two different types of card abilities in Android: 
Netrunner: constant abilities and triggered abilities. 
The following information explains how these abilities function 
in the game. 
Constant Abilities
Constant abilities continually affect the game as long as the card 
they appear on is active and any other specified conditions are 
met. They are not triggered and do not have costs associated 
with them. An example of a constant ability is the card 
Experiential Data, which reads, “All ice protecting this server 
has +1 strength.”
Triggered Abilities
In order to use a triggered ability a prerequisite must be met. 
This prerequisite is either a trigger cost that must be paid 
(paid ability) or a trigger condition that must be met 
(conditional ability). Once an ability is triggered, its effect 
is resolved immediately and can only be stopped by prevent 
or avoid effects. Players must follow all restrictions on the 
cards when triggering abilities. 
Paid abilities- In order to trigger a paid ability, a trigger 
cost must be paid. The most common trigger costs are spending 
clicks, credits, or hosted counters, and trashing cards. A 
card’s trigger cost is always listed in its text box before the 
effect, following the format “cost: effect.” A paid ability can be 
triggered an unlimited number of times as long as the cost is 
paid and any restrictions specified by the effect are observed. 
Paid abilities can be triggered at the beginning of each turn, 
before and after each player action, and at certain points during 
a run, unless the ability requires a click, in which case it must be 
triggered as an action. An example of a paid ability is the card 
Magnum Opus, which reads, “[: Gain 2<.”

Trashing
When trashing a card as part of a trigger cost for its own paid 
ability (]), the effect on that card will resolve even though the 
card is no longer active. 
Expose
Some effects expose one or more cards. Generally, only 
unrezzed installed cards can be exposed, unless an ability 
specifies otherwise. An exposed card is revealed to all players, 
and then returned to its previous state. If multiple cards are 
exposed by one effect, they are considered to be exposed 
simultaneously. 
Simultaneous Effects
When one or more abilities have the same timing trigger or 
can be triggered at the same time, each player chooses the 
order his own abilities trigger. A player can trigger an optional 
conditional ability before a required conditional ability if they 
both have the same trigger condition. 
If players ever want to perform simultaneous effects at the same 
time, the player whose turn it is resolves all of his effects first.	
Hosting
Some cards can only be installed on other cards; others allow 
cards to be installed on them. A card that has other cards 
installed on it is called the “host card,” while the card installed 
on it is called the “hosted card.” Hosted cards can leave play 
without affecting their host.
Cards can also host counters and tokens. Hosted counters or 
tokens can be spent, or leave play, without affecting their host. 
If a trigger cost requires one or more hosted counters, those 
counters must be spent (returned to the token bank) from the 
card that the ability appears on.
If a host leaves play, then all cards and counters hosted also 
leave play. This cannot be prevented.
Forfeiting Agendas
Some card abilities require the Corporation or Runner to forfeit 
an agenda. When a player forfeits an agenda, he selects any 
agenda in his score area and permanently removes it from the 
game (it does not go to Archives or the heap). He no longer 
scores points for the forfeited agenda.
Symbols
The following symbols appear on cards:
<: This symbol stands for credit. It always appears with a 
numeral, such as 1<, which means “one credit,” or 3<, which 
means “three credits.”
[: This symbol stands for a single click. Multiple clicks are 
represented by multiple symbols, such as [ [, which means 
“two clicks.”
>: This symbol stands for recurring credit. It always 
appears with a numeral, such as 1>, which means “one 
recurring credit,” or 3>, which means “three recurring credits.” 
Any recurring credits a player spends are replaced on their host 
card at the beginning of that player’s turn. A player can only 
spend these credits as instructed by their host card. 
~: This symbol stands for Link. It is always used with a 
quantity, such as +1~, which means “plus 1 link.”
@: This symbol stands for memory unit. It always appears 
with a quantity, such as + # which means “plus 2 memory 
units.”
|: This symbol stands for subroutine and only appears on 
ice. Each symbol marks a single subroutine on a piece of ice.
]: This symbol stands for trash. It is used as a self-
referential trigger cost in a card text, such as “]: Draw 2 cards,” 
which means “trash this card to draw 2 cards.” 
Simultaneous Effect Example
The Runner has Aesop’s Pawnshop and Wyldside 
installed and both have the same trigger condition of 
“When your turn begins.” The Runner begins his turn 
and can choose to trigger the optional conditional 
ability on Aesop’s Pawnshop first, gaining 3< by 
trashing Wyldside. This stops Wyldside’s required 
conditional ability from triggering, keeping the 
Runner from losing [. 

Deckbuilding
In a Living Card Game, players can customize their decks by 
adding and removing cards, creating a unique play experience.
Why deckbuild?
Deckbuilding is a great way to experience the game in a 
completely new way. Instead of adapting to the game, you 
can force the game to adapt to you. Deckbuilding opens up 
new strategies, new experiences, and ultimately can lead to 
more exciting games where you feel more invested. When you 
deckbuild, you do not just participate in the game; you actively 
shape how the game is played.
When first building a deck, it is usually a good idea to modify 
one of the starter decks rather than start from scratch. After 
playing Android: Netrunner a few times with different decks, 
you should have a general idea of what the various cards do. 
Pick your favorite faction, and then modify that faction’s starter 
deck by switching out some cards for cards from other factions. 
In most cases you will want to build a deck at the minimum 
deck size, as it makes your deck more efficient. Don’t worry 
about building the perfect deck–enjoy the process and try out 
cards that are appealing to you and seem fun to play with. 
When building a deck from scratch, it is generally helpful to 
sort your cards by faction. Once you have sorted the factions, 
choose one and separate those cards by card type. You will 
want to make sure you have a good mix of card types in your 
deck. Adding cards from a second core set greatly increases the 
number of options you will have. 
One thing to consider when building a deck in Android: 
Netrunner is how to spend your influence. It is a good idea to 
use as much of it as possible, since there are many powerful 
cards in other factions. If you aren’t sure what to add, look 
for broadly applicable cards like icebreakers or ice. For the 
Corporation, a surprise rez of an out-of-faction ice can be an 
important turning point in the game!
Another thing the Corporation should consider is how much 
ice you have in your deck. You will want to make sure you put 
in enough to stop the Runner. We recommend building about 
17-20 pieces of ice into a 45-49 card deck. Also make sure you 
have enough ways to generate credits quicker than the regular 
“[ for 1<” action. Having a strong economy will give you 
plenty of credits to spend and put a lot of pressure on your 
opponent.
Once you’ve built your deck, it is time to play some games! 
This is where you will begin to understand whether or not your 
deck is working. Do you have enough resources? Is your ice 
too expensive? Are you drawing your icebreakers fast enough? 
Figure out what the weak points of your deck are, and try 
switching out some cards. Looking through your cards again, 
you may even have another idea for a different deck!
Restrictions
When building a deck for organized play, players must observe 
the following restrictions:
• A deck must be associated with a single identity card, 
and cannot contain fewer cards than the minimum deck 
size value listed on the chosen identity card. There is 
no maximum deck size, but the deck must be able to be 
sufficiently randomized in a short period of time. Identity 
cards, reference cards, and click tracker cards are never 
counted as part of a deck and do not count against the 
minimum deck size.
• A deck cannot have more than three copies of a single card 
(by title) in it.
• A deck associated with a Runner identity can never contain 
Corporation cards, and vice versa.
• A deck cannot contain out-of-faction cards with a total 
influence value that exceeds the influence limit listed on 
the chosen identity card (see “Influence” below). Cards that 
match the faction of the identity card do not count against 
this limit. 
• A Corporation deck must have a specific number of agenda 
points in it based on the size of the deck, as follows:

	
- 40 to 44 cards requires 18 or 19 agenda points.
 	
 (Note: Identities in this set have a 45 card minimum)
	
- 45 to 49 cards requires 20 or 21 agenda points.
	
- 50 to 54 cards requires 22 or 23 agenda points.

For decks larger than this, add 2 additional agenda points to 
the 54 card deck requirements each time the number of cards 
in the deck reaches a multiple of 5 (55, 60, 65, etc.). 

For example, a 66 card deck requires 6 additional agenda 
points (2 at 55, 2 at 60, and 2 at 65 cards). This gives a final 
requirement of either 28 or 29 agenda points.
A player may wish to include cards in his deck that do not 
match the faction of his identity card. He is restricted, however, 
by the influence limit on his identity card. The combined 
influence value of out-of-faction cards in his deck cannot 
exceed this limit. Each card’s influence value is represented by 
small blue orbs near the bottom of the card.
Neutral cards are not part of any faction, can be used in any 
deck of the side they are affiliated with, and generally have an 
influence value of zero. 
Note: Some cards do not have any influence value (this is 
different than a card that has an influence value of zero). These 
cards are identified by their lack of an influence box. A card 
without an influence value cannot be used with an identity card 
that has a different faction affiliation.
© 2012 W
A card with 
2 influence.

Deckbuilding Example
Jenny has decided to build a Criminal deck by modifying 
the Criminal starter deck. She lays out all of the Criminal 
and Runner neutral cards, and knows that she currently 
has 47 cards and is spending 0 of Gabriel Santiago’s 15 
influence. 
Jenny really likes a lot of the Shaper cards, and so she 
decides to browse through those and pick out some to add 
to her deck. After browsing, she adds the following cards to 
her potential card pool:
• 3x Diesel, 3x Gordian Blade, 1x The Toolbox, 2x The 
Maker’s Eye, 2x Akamatsu Mem Chip, 3x Tinkering, 2x 
Magnum Opus
These cards have a combined 
influence of 35, and she has only 
15 influence to spend. Looking at 
the Criminal cards, Jenny decides 
that she needs Gordian Blade 
the most, since it is a decoder, 
something her deck currently does 
not have. She puts in 2x Gordian 
Blade for six influence, figuring she 
doesn’t need 3x with Special Order 
in the Criminal deck.
After adding in Gordian Blade, Jenny does the math and 
finds that in order to install all of the programs she wants 
to install, she will need more memory. She decides to add 
in 2x Akamatsu Mem Chip and 1x The Toolbox. This takes 
her up to 10 influence. She has only five influence left to 
spend. 
Looking at her deck again, Jenny 
feels like she really wants more 
card draw. Since Diesel is only 
two influence, she could add 2x 
Diesel, which would put her at 
14 influence. Adding in 3x Diesel 
would be too much influence. 
Looking at the cards she has 
already spent influence on, Jenny 
notices that the Akamatsu Mem 
Chip is only worth one. She decides 
to drop one of the Akamatsu Mem 
Chips in order to add in 3x Diesel and reach 15 influence. 
She really wants to add in The Maker’s Eye, but decides 
to try the deck with just Diesel first. Having spent the 15 
influence, she has now added the following cards:
• 2x Gordian Blade, 1x Akamatsu Mem Chip, 1x The 
Toolbox, 3x Diesel 
After maxing out her influence, Jenny counts up the 
current number of cards she has in her deck. She currently 
has 54 cards, and Gabriel Santiago has a minimum deck 
size of 45. She now wants to cut nine cards from the deck 
to reach the minimum deck size, as this makes the deck 
more efficient.
The first card Jenny decides to cut is 1x Desperado, since 
she wants to play with The Toolbox and a player can only 
ever have one console installed at a time. Next, Jenny 
decides to cut out 1x Data Dealer, since she doesn’t like 
forfeiting agendas.
Now the decisions get tougher. Since Jenny now has a 
decoder, she feels like 3x Crypsis is no longer necessary, 
but she doesn’t want to get rid of all of them. She decides 
to cut 2x Crypsis. Looking over her programs and 
icebreakers, she decides she is happy with them and sets 
them aside.
This leaves her with resources, hardware and events. 
Looking at her hardware, Jenny decides that she doesn’t 
need 2x Lemuria Codecracker with 3x Infiltration to 
expose cards. She considers dropping both Lemuria 
Codecrackers, but one of her friends she plays with does 
like to use ambush cards. She decides to keep one in the 
deck, just in case. Counting up the cards she has cut, she 
finds that she has cut five cards, putting her current deck 
size at 49. If she wants to get to 45, she must cut out four 
more cards!
Jenny then takes a look at her 
resource cards. She definitely 
wants to keep 3x Armitage 
Codebusting, but she is unsure 
about the 2x Crash Space and 
2x Decoy. These cards are great 
against Weyland and NBN, but 
not so good against Jinteki or 
Haas-Bioroid. She wants to cut 
them, but remembers the card 
Scorched Earth and decides to 
leave them in and cut 2x Access to 
Globalsec instead, since she feels 
like the Decoys will better protect her from tags.
This leaves events. She needs to cut two more cards, 
and looking at the events she decides Forged Activation 
Orders is the weakest of the bunch. She removes two of 
them and breathes a sigh of relief. She has removed the 
following cards:
• 1x Desperado, 1x Data Dealer, 2x Crypsis, 1x Lemuria 
Codecracker, 2x Access to Globalsec, 2x Forged 
Activation Orders
She is now ready to play some games with her new deck!
1<: Break code gate subroutine.
1<: +1 strength for the remainder of this 
It can slice through the thickest knots of data. 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAM: Icebreaker - Decoder
+1~
He flicked the display population to high, and 
was surrounded by a circle of floating holos. The 
ping-back was strong, the clearance level blue-one. 
Now to find the perfect place for a relay...
 
RESOURCE: Link
Access to Globalsec
Diesel
Draw 3 cards.
Diesel gives you flames. 
EVENT
Illus. Tim Durning
Diesel
Access to 
Globalsec

Haas-Bioroid
“Effective. Reliable. Humane.” 
With headquarters in New Angeles and 
major branch offices in Chicago, Cologne, 
Heinlein, Johannesburg, and Sydney, 
Haas-Bioroid is the world leader in 
cybernetics and artificial intelligence. The 
most iconic and recognizable products 
made by Haas-Bioroid are the bioroids 
themselves, androids built with cybernetic 
technology and with artificially-intelligent 
minds designed around sophisticated 
imaging of human brains.
Bioroids are a new technology but have 
already changed humanity forever. As 
android labor becomes cheaper and 
more widely available, ordinary humans, 
mostly in the lower class, find themselves 
unemployed and replaced by a bioroid 
or clone. Although bioroids are less 
controversial than the humanlike clones, 
they attract a good deal of vitriol, hatred, 
and even violence. 
The “labor solutions” market is controlled 
by Haas-Bioroid and their chief 
competitor, Jinteki. Both corporations 
have become enormously wealthy 
through their joint monopoly. Haas-
Bioroid holds the patent on bioroids and 
most of the necessary technology for 
developing a proper artificial intelligence. 
They aggressively protect their patents 
and their market position through any 
legal means available–and, if certain 
alarmist watchdog organizations and 
fringe elements are to be believed, any 
illegal means available as well. 
In addition to the creation of artificially-
intelligent bioroids, Haas-Bioroid has 
been experimenting with specialized 
bioroids dedicated to network security 
and other tasks that are traditionally 
the role of software agents 
(so-called “weak” AI). Bioroids tasked 
for purely network usage have a proven 
ability to interact with the brains of 
users employing a neural interface, with 
occasionally lethal results. There are also 
some indications that these bioroids are 
less “well-adjusted” than others who 
possess a body and may interact with 
human beings in a more traditional 
manner. Haas-Bioroid denies any 
allegations that their software-purposed 
bioroids are unstable or have ever been 
implicated in the brain damage of human 
users. 
Haas-Bioroid prides itself on quality 
craftsmanship and superior design. In 
addition to bioroids, Haas-Bioroid and its 
subsidiaries produce commercial-grade 
and medical cybernetics, prosthetics, 
industrial robots and machinery, mind-
machine interface devices, and consumer 
electronics. 	
“When you need the human touch.”
The traditionally conservative Jinteki 
corporation is now being led by an 
aggressive new chairman of the board, 
Chairman Hiro, through a series of 
upheavals and transitions. Alongside 
rapid developments in the field of cloning 
and biotechnology in the last decade, the 
corporation has relocated its headquarters 
from Tokyo, Japan to New Angeles, 
acquired or built laboratories on Mars, 
and shifted its recruitment policies to 
diversify its research and sales forces. 
Branch offices have also been granted 
more autonomy and localized marketing 
has increased sales of consumer-model 
clones (though most clone sales are still 
business-to-business). 
This upheaval mirrors unrest in society 
at large in the past decades, and the 
cause is the same: androids. Jinteki owns 
the patent on the process that creates 
humanlike clones, biological androids 
tailor-made by the “genegineers” of 
Jinteki. As this controversial technology 
becomes cheaper and more robust, 
more and more humans find themselves 
replaced in the workforce by cheaper 
android labor. While some Jinteki 
corporation products (such as the 
vacuum-tolerant “turtleback” clones 
sometimes seen in Heinlein or on the 
Beanstalk) bear only a faint resemblance 
to human beings, others are virtually 
indistinguishable, marked only by 
barcode tattoos on the backs of their 
necks. 
Jinteki markets its clones as more 
personable and person-like than the 
robotic bioroids built by their chief 
competitor. Clones are inherently 
adaptable and intuitive, just like a real 
person, and are able to establish empathy 
with real humans more easily than 
other androids. They excel in service 
industry positions, although heavy-labor 
and industrial-process clones are also 
readily available. Rumors exist of clone 
projects that explore the potential of 
human psionic ability, but such claims 
are dismissed by serious scientists. Jinteki 
has performed extensive research on the 
human brain and mind-machine interface 
technologies, but this is because so-called 
“braintaping” technology is essential to 
their production process. 
The new, sleeker, more modern Jinteki 
prides itself on adaptability, aesthetics, 
and a connection to the natural world. 
Jinteki is proud of its heritage as a 
Japanese corporation and embraces 
a traditional aesthetic as part of its 
corporate identity. In addition to clones, 
Jinteki and its subsidiaries specialize 
in biotechnology, cloned organs, 
pharmacology, agriculture, and medical 
equipment. 

NBN
“Someone is always watching.” 
The largest media conglomerate in the 
world is NBN, which at various times 
in the company’s history has stood for 
Network Broadcast News, Net Broadcast 
Network, and Near-Earth Broadcast 
Network. Now simply known as NBN, 
the corporation is headquartered right 
on Broadcast Square in New Angeles 
after relocating from SanSan in the early 
30s. NBN also has offices and broadcast 
equipment along the entire length of the 
New Angeles Space Elevator, particularly 
at Midway Station and the terminal space 
station known as the Castle. 
NBN owns or operates five of the ten top-
rated content streams worldwide. From 
music to threedee, news broadcasting 
to sitcoms, classic movies to interactive 
sensies, NBN does it all. NBN produces 
or licenses more content every day than 
a human being could consume in a 
year and boasts sophisticated secretary 
software agents to aid the consumer in 
locating the highest-quality content that 
best matches his user profile. 
NBN’s revenue streams are as complex 
as the web of network and broadcast 
infrastructure it owns. Its broad array of 
content and sophisticated, user-friendly 
delivery systems have garnered NBN 
an enormous number of subscribers at 
various membership levels in a variety of 
media markets. By collecting and collating 
viewership information and habits, NBN 
is also the world’s leading media and 
marketing research firm, with zettabytes 
of information on such subjects as the 
buying habits of thirty-year-old college-
educated single mothers. NBN can sell 
this data to other corporations, and also 
provide precision-targeted advertising to 
that same subscriber list. NBN-produced 
advertising uses psychographic profiling 
and the latest neuroscience 
and braintaping techniques to promote 
message penetration and brand retention.
The market dominance of NBN 
means that in most markets even non-
subscribers must use NBN-owned 
infrastructure to access the network 
at all. As a result, a large percentage of 
data and media in all of human society 
passes through NBN. Privacy advocates 
worry that NBN has too much access and 
control over communications and media, 
and condemn NBN for its cooperation 
with repressive Mediterranean regimes. 
Some worry that NBN is using its wealth 
of data for purposes more nefarious than 
advertising, and that there is a reason 
why no antitrust laws were ever enforced 
against the corporation by U.S. or world 
governments. 
NBN is a model of corporate efficiency, 
agile and responsive to an ever-changing 
marketplace. It does more than simply 
read the market; it steers it. 
Weyland Consortium
“Moving Upwards” 
Aside from its dramatic and public 
association with the New Angeles 
Space Elevator, better known as “Jack’s 
Beanstalk” or simply “the Beanstalk” after 
designer Jack Weyland, the extent of the 
Weyland Consortium’s holdings is little 
known among the general population. 
This shadowy organization owns or 
invests in other corporations, leveraging 
the enormous assets granted them by 
the Beanstalk to buy and sell smaller 
megacorps at an alarming rate. 
For the past several decades, the Weyland 
Consortium’s obvious specialty has been 
construction, a legacy of its involvement 
in the Space Elevator project. Many 
of its subsidiaries are construction 
companies, often on a local level, or 
suppliers for construction companies. 
By some estimates, half the arcologies 
in New Angeles were built by a Weyland 
Consortium-controlled company, 
and cunning accounting and business 
practices ensure that even when the 
client companies fold, the Consortium 
somehow comes out ahead. 
Part of the secret of the Weyland 
Consortium’s success lies in its ability 
to secure government contracts and 
lobby for favorable legislation, especially 
in the United States and China. It is 
often a war profiteer, securing lucrative 
reconstruction bids in the Mediterranean, 
United Korea, and the Sub-Saharan 
League nations. In the wake of the Lunar 
War, Weyland snatched up almost 70% 
of the orbital reconstruction contracts 
on Earth and nearly all of the Heinlein 
contracts. Unfortunately for Weyland, its 
apparent magic with local governments 
does not appear to extend to the Martian 
separatists, who consider the 
Weyland Consortium a corporate 
extension of Earth’s hegemony. 
Still, Weyland remains confident that 
the bright future of the human race is in 
outer space. The Consortium is a major 
source of funding for space exploration 
and continues to acquire aerospace and 
orbital construction companies. Some 
suggest that the Weyland Consortium 
seeks a monopoly in outer space, that it 
wants to control all human habitation 
outside Earth’s atmosphere. Many of these 
alarmists are Martians who distrust the 
Weyland Consortium on principle. 
Given the Weyland Consortium’s 
proclivity for operating in war-torn 
regions, it should be no surprise the 
corporation is comfortable playing 
hardball. While little has been proven, 
some mysterious deaths are blamed 
on elements within the Consortium. 
Weyland favors a brute-force approach to 
most problems, using its vast resources to 
get their way. 

Shapers
To others, Shapers seem like 
idealistic naifs. They’re not 
motivated by rage against the 
corporate injustice that is a daily fact of life for 
the underclass. They’re not in it for the money. 
Many never understand why Shapers do what 
they do, but it’s not actually very complicated. 
Shapers are motivated by curiosity and a 
certain amount of pride. A Shaper may 
orchestrate a data raid as underhanded and 
destructive as the most frothing Anarch, but 
his goals are different: the Shaper just wants to 
see if he can do it. Shapers are also tinkerers 
and builders, and they push their hardware 
and software beyond their limits. 
Criminals
Criminals are in it for 
themselves. All runners are 
technically criminals, at 
least if you ask the corps, but these runners 
embrace it. They make self-interest an art 
form and don’t care who gets hurt so long 
as they get ahead. Many Criminals engage 
in more traditional forms of crime as well, 
stealing data and money with equal gusto. 
Criminals are good at covering their tracks 
and employing a variety of dirty tricks to 
attack from an unexpected angle. 
Anarchs 
Anarchs have strong 
contempt for the corporate 
oligarchs, the whole corrupt 
system, and often for society in general. 
Whatever the exact target of their rage, 
their unifying characteristic is their anger. 
At their worst, Anarchs just want to watch 
the world burn. At their best, Anarchs are 
tireless champions for the downtrodden and 
oppressed. They’re very good at breaking 
things, spreading viruses, and trashing 
Corporation assets and programs.
Runners
Runners are a fractious and varied group. It’s nearly impossible 
to generalize about them, except to say that individuality is core 
to their identity. By definition they live outside the law, and as a 
consequence they mostly lead a solitary existence. They do not 
have overarching organizations or affiliations, or indeed much 
of anything that makes any one runner similar to another. They 
come from all walks of life, vary dramatically in skill sets, goals, 
and available resources, and don’t even have a dress code. 
Noise
Hacker Extraordinaire
“I guess I’m just the classic example of the man who had every advantage going 
tragically wrong.” Reilly grinned a cocksure, infuriating grin that made him 
look ten years younger on his already young-looking face. 
“You did,” said Brady, flicking through the file that hung in the air between 
them. “Ji Reilly. Says here you’re a g-mod from birth. Mommy and daddy must 
have loved you very much to tinker with your brain like that.” 
“Oh, sure,” said Reilly. “They loved me so much they planned everything out. 
You know I was born on Heinlein, but I went to school downstalk. Mommy and 
daddy lived on the moon, but there I was, living in an arcology in New Angeles. 
I could look out the window at night and wave at my mom and dad.” 
“Don’t sell me that line of bull.” 
“It’s all there in the file, Detective.” Reilly flicked one long-fingered hand at the 
shimmering virt display. “All planned out. Internship with Jinteki’s AI research 
division. Management position by 25. VP by 30.” 
“You were not a Jinteki VP.” 
“Oh, hell no, can you imagine?” He laughed, a short, sharp bark of a laugh. 
“That company would never survive me.” And then the grin again. “Still might 
not.” 
“So you had every goddamn advantage a boy could dream of,” sneered Brady. 
“And yet here you are.” Reilly shrugged, doing his best to look innocent. The 
cuffs spoiled both effects. “So why the life of crime, Reilly?” 
“Why the life of crime.” Reilly wrapped his mouth and lips around each word, 
tasting them, weighing the ideas contained within. “Why not?”
Brady sneered, dropping his PAD to the cold steel of the table. “I know why. 
You get plenty rich off these little capers.” 
“There’s what you know, and what you think you know, Detective. And there’s 
two things you should know before we go any further.” 
“Yeah?” 	
“The first thing is that arresting me over and over does not mean that I’m a 
criminal. Not until you can find a charge that’ll stick.”
“You’re no good, Reilly. The techs are going to find that stolen data on one of 
your datacores, somewhere. You won’t be a top-flight runner anymore; they’re 
gonna pull the cyberware out of your head and if you so much as touch a PAD 
they’ll break your fingers. You’ll just be Ji Reilly. Nobody.” 
“That’s the other thing, Detective.” He stood, resting his hands on the table. All 
the flippant gestures, all the mocking smiles were gone. His eyes blazed like 
foxfire. “My name is Noise.” 
Brady held his gaze until his PAD chirped. He frowned and glanced down at it. 
The device tracked his eye line and the virt display bloomed to life. Orders.
“So,” said Noise. “I guess I’ll be going now?” He offered his cuffs and grinned. 
Brady scowled. 

Gabriel Santiago
Consummate Professional
Gabriel was hungry. Nothing new. Grew up hungry. Grew up lean. Grew up 
mean on the streets of New Angeles. You don’t get much schooling on the 
streets but you do get an education. Gabriel grew up speaking three languages 
and cursing in three more. He learned how to spot a cop or a spydrone, how to 
palm a PAD from a ristie’s coat pocket, how to crack the case and burn out the 
auto-locator without scragging the valuable electronics inside. 
Being hungry gave him an edge. Had to want it more. Had to need it. Had to be 
willing to do what it took to get ahead. So, yeah. Gabriel was hungry. He liked 
it that way. Kept himself hungry. Cracking PADs turned into cracking code, 
turned into cracking networks. Could’ve gone straight, worked for HB or one of 
the small software startups that bloom and die like mushrooms on a corpse all 
through New Angeles. Gotten fat. Complacent. Lost the edge. 
“Better this way,” Gabriel said, hanging upside down outside the 124th floor of 
the Hu-Jintao arcology. A green light blinked on the small black box affixed to 
the window by his head, claiming the alarm was successfully disabled. Gabriel 
ignored it; it was linked to his cortical implant and he’d know if it needed his 
attention. He focused on carefully removing the cut glass from the window 
before him. Couldn’t drop it, couldn’t let the wind snatch it away. He used his 
good hand, his flesh-and-blood hand, for the operation. Deftly he tucked the 
circle of glass, about the size of his palm, into the front pocket on his vest. Then 
the laser probe had to be placed just so, with the beam striking the optical port 
on the sarariman’s desk inside, and then he was in to the network. 
He pulled a cable from the laser probe and socketed it into his wrist–his bad 
wrist, his metal wrist. An optical connection established, his implant came 
to life, flooding his mind with data. His sense of his body fell away; he wasn’t 
hanging upside down a mile above the street with the wind tearing at his 
clothes anymore. He was in a river of data, a bodiless phantasm, a ghost in the 
machine. 
But he was still hungry. 
Kate “Mac” McCaffrey
Digital Tinker
“I like to think of myself as an artist,” she said. Said. Out loud. With her vocal 
cords. Unplugged, perched on the edge of a stool so old it was made of wood. 
Her “desk” was a polywood flat laid over two sawhorses and strewn with 
humming, glowing electronic devices. One of these devices projected a virt 
display of a girl’s plastic doll face, fixed in a permanent plastic grin. The face 
spoke back from the small speaker at the base of the projector. 
“An artist of…pixels? Qubits? Bytes?” 
“Ideas,” said Mac. She gestured and a virt screen, a luminous panel showing 
bricks of raw code, floated up in front of her face. “The bits and bytes and qubits 
aren’t the data. It’s just how it’s written. Like a word isn’t just a collection of 
letters. There’s an idea behind it.” 
“So you use digital storage media as a means to express your ideas?” 
Mac ignored the question. Her own anonymizer program was probably showing 
her as an old film or sensie star; she couldn’t remember if she’d set it for Marilyn 
Monroe, Charlie Chaplin, or Miranda Rhapsody. The code was good. She rested 
her hand flat on an induction interface panel and let the device synch with the 
nanowiring implanted under her skin. “There’s great potential in the network, 
ways for us to communicate with each other, maybe new ways to structure our 
society. I just want to reach out and see what it can do.” 
“And what are you doing tonight?” 
“Reaching out.” She sent one final command and lifted her hand. “Are you 
listening?” 
“I’m listening,” said the doll. 
Mac turned on her stool, looking out the window at the New Angeles skyline. 
She grinned as her handiwork wrote itself across the sky. “Try looking out the 
window, Ms. Lockwell.” 
“Why do you think I’m–oh my god.” The mile-high Gila Heights arcology, all its 
lights flickering according to Mac’s design. They circled and streaked, bloomed 
and exploded in a pattern of light and dark. The cycle looped three times before 
someone at Gila Heights managed to return control and shut it down. “Did you 
just flash that to all of New Angeles?” came the voice from the projector.
“Maybe,” said Mac. “It would be easy. As easy as tracing you back to your office 
at Broadcast Square.” 
“You cracked the NBN firewall!? You can’t do that! This is why people think 
you’re reckless criminals. This is why–” Mac killed the feed. 
“Can’t do that,” she mused. She gestured and the virt displays clustered on her 
desk showed her a great big tower of data, the inaccessible NBN network, its 
spine running up the Beanstalk, its ports guarded by the best ice money could 
buy. The diagram spun slowly in front of her. Mac grinned and cracked open 
a new can of Diesel. “I wonder,” she said, and called up a new window full of 
code. 

Glossary
Accessing: The act of a Runner looking 
at a Corporation card as part of a 
successful run, which he can then trash 
or steal.
Action: What a player performs on his 
turn whenever he spends one or more 
clicks.
Active: A state in which a card’s effects 
and abilities are able to be used and affect 
the game.
Advancing: The act of putting one 
advancement token on a card that can 
be advanced. Agendas can always be 
Advancement Requirement: The 
number of advancement tokens that must 
be on an agenda before the Corporation 
can score it.
Agenda: A Corporation card type that is 
installed in remote servers and is worth 
agenda points. 
Agenda Counter: A counter used to 
track various effects on agenda cards. 
Agenda Points: A value on agenda 
cards. This value is how many points an 
agenda is worth while it is in a score area.
Anarch: One of the three Runner 
Approach: The step of a run in which 
the Runner makes contact with a piece 
of ice and decides whether or not to 
continue the run.
Archives: The Corporation’s trash pile. 
A central server.
Asset: A Corporation card type which is 
installed in his remote servers and grants 
him various benefits.
Avoid effect: An effect that stops 
another effect from resolving.
Barrier: One of the four subtypes of ice 
which the Corporation can use to defend 
his servers.

Click ([): The basic unit of work in 
Android: Netrunner. Players spend their 
clicks to perform actions and trigger 
abilities.
Code gate: One of the four subtypes 
of ice that the Corporation can use to 
defend his servers.
Constant Ability: An ability that 
continually affects the game provided its 
card is active.
Corporation: One of the two sides 
available to the player in Android: 
Netrunner; the opponent of the Runner. 
Referred to as “the Corp” on card text.
Credit (<): The basic unit of wealth in 
Android: Netrunner.
Credit, Recurring (>): A credit 
that, when spent, returns to its host card 
at the start of that player’s next turn. A 
player can only spend recurring credits as 
instructed by their host. 
Credit bank: The supply of credits not 
yet in play.
Credit pool: The supply of credits 
currently available to a player for 
spending.
Criminal: One of the three Runner 
Damage, Brain: A unit of damage that 
requires the Runner to trash one card 
from his grip at random, and reduces his 
maximum hand size by one card.
Damage, Meat or Net: A unit of 
damage that requires the Runner to trash 
one card from his grip at random.
Derez: The act of flipping a rezzed card 
facedown, inactive.
Discard: The act by which a player 
moves a card to his trash pile at the 
end of his turn if he has exceeded his 
maximum hand size. 
Effect: The resolution of a card ability.
Event: A single-use card type that is 
played by the Runner during his turn and 
is trashed when its effects are resolved.
Expose: The act of revealing a card to 
all players. Only unrezzed installed cards 
can be exposed unless otherwise noted. 
An exposed card returns to its previous 
state after being exposed.
Flatline: A condition that results 
from the Runner being forced to trash 
more cards than he has in his grip, or 
from having a maximum hand size that 
is below zero at the end of his turn, and 
which causes the Runner to immediately 
lose the game.
Grip: The Runner’s hand of cards.
Hardware: A Runner card type which 
is installed in the Runner’s play area and 
grants him various abilities.
Haas-Bioroid: One of the four 
Corporation factions available to a player 
in Android: Netrunner. 

Heap: The Runner’s trash pile.
Host: A card that is currently holding 
other cards or counters.
Headquarters (HQ): The 
Corporation’s hand of cards. A central 
sever.
Ice: A Corporation card type which 
protects his servers from the Runner.
Icebreaker: A program subtype which 
enables the Runner to break ice.
Inactive: A state in which a card’s 
effects and abilities are ignored.
Influence: A value that appears 
on certain cards which is used in 
deckbuilding. Influence restricts the 
number of out-of-faction cards in a deck.
Install: The act of placing an agenda, 
asset, ice, upgrade, hardware, program or 
resource card onto the table. The Runner 
installs cards in his rig, the Corporation 
in his servers.
Install cost: The cost which must be 
paid in order for a card to be installed.
Jack out: The process by which a 
Runner voluntarily ends his own run.
Jinteki: One of the four Corporation 
Link (~): A value that increases the 
Runner’s link strength during a trace.
Link strength: The Runner’s total 
strength during a trace; the sum of his 
links and the amount of credits the 
Runner spends on the trace.
Maximum Hand Size: The maximum 
number of cards a player can have in his 
hand during his discard phase.
Memory Unit (MU): A unit of space 
available to the Runner to install 
programs. The Runner begins the game 
with four memory units. 
Mulligan: The act of drawing a new 
hand at the start of the game. Each player 
gets one mulligan per game.
NBN: One of the four Corporation 
Operation: A single-use card type that 
is played by the Corporation during his 
turn and is trashed when its effects are 
resolved.
Power Counter: A counter used to 
track various effects on cards. 
Program: A Runner card type that is 
installed and grants him various abilities.
Prevent effect: An effect that stops 
another effect from resolving.
Research and Development (R&D): 
The Corporation’s draw deck. A central 
server.
Resource: A Runner card type that is 
installed and grants the Runner various 
benefits.
Rez: The process by which the 
Corporation reveals his installed cards 
and allows them to take effect; once 
rezzed, a card is turned faceup. 
Rez cost: The credits that the 
Corporation must pay in order to rez a 
card.
Root: The portion of the central server 
where the Corporation installs upgrades.
Runner: One of the two sides available 
to the player in Android: Netrunner; the 
opponent of the Corporation.
Score (noun): The number of agenda 
points a player has on agendas in his 
score area.
Score (verb): The act of the 
Corporation turning an installed 
agenda faceup and adding it to his score 
area. An agenda must have at least as 
many advancement tokens on it as its 
advancement requirement to be scored.
Score Area: A place where each player 
places his scored or stolen agendas. 
Sentry: One of the four subtypes of ice 
which the Corporation uses to defend his 
servers.
Server, Central: A type of server 
which includes R&D, HQ, and Archives. 
Server, Remote: A server built by the 
Corporation. Assets and agendas can 
only be installed in remote servers.
Shaper: One of the three Runner 
Stack: The Runner’s draw deck. 
Steal: The act of the Runner adding an 
accessed agenda to his score area.
Strength: An attribute of programs 
and ice.
Subroutine (|): An ability of a piece 
of ice which interferes with the Runner if 
allowed to trigger during a run.
Subtype: A card descriptor. 
Tag: An effect that, when acquired by 
the Runner, can allow the Corporation to 
trash the Runner’s resources.
Tagged: A state which describes a 
Runner when he has one or more tags.
Trace: An attempt by the Corporation 
to tag or damage the Runner.
Trace Strength: The Corporation’s 
total strength during a trace; the sum 
of the base trace strength on the card 
initiating the trace and the amount of 
credits the Corporation spends on the 
trace.
Trap: One of the four subtypes of ice 
which the Corporation can use to defend 
his servers.
Trash: The act of moving a card to its 
owner’s trash pile.
Triggered Ability: An ability that has 
a prerequisite that must be met or paid 
before it is used.
Upgrade: A Corporation card type that 
is installed in any server and grants the 
Corporation various abilities. 
Virus Counter: A counter used to 
track various effects on virus cards.
Weyland Consortium: One of the 
four Corporation factions available to a 
player in Android: Netrunner. 

Runner’s Action Phase
 
Turn begins (“When your turn begins” conditionals meet their trigger conditions)
Take actions
	
After each action: 
 
Phase ends after abilities are triggered following the last spent action
TIMING STRUCTURE OF TURNS
 = Paid abilities can be triggered
 = Cards can be rezzed
 = Agendas can be scored
Corporation’s Draw Phase
 
 
Turn begins (“When your turn begins” conditionals meet their trigger conditions)
Draw one card
Corporation’s Action Phase
Take actions
	
After each action: 
 
 
Phase ends after abilities are triggered following the last spent action
3.	
Corporation’s Discard Phase
Discard down to maximum hand size
End of turn 
 
Runner’s Discard Phase
Discard down to maximum hand size
End of turn 
 

6.	
The run ends.
TIMING STRUCTURE OF A RUN
 = Paid abilities can be triggered
 = Cards can be rezzed
The Runner initiates a RUN and declares the ATTACKED SERVER.
• If the attacked server has one or more pieces of ice protecting it, go to [2]. If the attacked server does 
not have ice protecting it, go to [4].
The Runner APPROACHES the outermost piece of ice not already approached on the attacked server. 
 
...Either the Runner JACKS OUT: go to [5] (cannot jack out if this is the first ice approached this run) 
...Or the Runner continues the run: if the approached ice is REZZED, go to [3]; if the approached ice is 
UNREZZED, go to [2.1]. 
	
	
2.1 
 
 (only time the approached ice can be rezzed)
	
...Either the Corporation REZZES the approached ice: go to [3] 
	
...Or the Corporation does not rez the approached ice and the runner PASSES it: go to [2] if 	
	
there is another piece of ice protecting the server, go to [4] if there is not another piece of ice 	
	
protecting the server. 
3.	
The runner ENCOUNTERS a piece of ice. 
	
	
3.1.	
The Runner can break SUBROUTINES on the encountered ice. 
	
	
3.2.	
Resolve all subroutines not broken on the encountered ice.
	
...Either the run ends: go to [5] 
	
...Or the run continues: if there is another piece of ice installed protecting the server, go to [2]; if 	
	
	
there is not another piece of ice protecting the server, go to [4]. 
4.	
The Runner decides whether to continue the run. 
...Either the Runner JACKS OUT: go to [5] 
...Or the Runner continues the run: go to [4.1]. 
	
	
4.1.	
 
	
	
4.2	
The run is considered to be SUCCESSFUL.
	
• Trigger any abilities resulting from successful run.
	
	
4.3.	
Access cards, then go to [6].
	
• If an AGENDA is accessed, the Runner STEALS it. If a card with a TRASH COST is accessed, 	
	
the Runner may pay its trash cost to TRASH it.
	
• All accessed cards not stolen or trashed are returned to the server in their previous states.
5.	
The run ends and is considered to be UNSUCCESSFUL.
• Trigger any abilities resulting from unsuccessful run.

Credits
Original Game Design: Richard Garfield
Game Development: Lukas Litzsinger
IP Development: Daniel Lovat Clark
Rules Text: David Hansen, Michael Hurley, and Lukas 
Litzsinger
Editing: David Hansen and Lukas Litzsinger
Graphic Design: Michael Silsby with Chris Beck, Shaun Boyke, 
Dallas Mehlhoff, Andrew Navaro, and Evan Simonet
Cover Art: Imaginary FS Pte Ltd
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Licensing Coordinator: Deb Beck
Producer: Lukas Litzsinger
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Game Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Android Universe created by Kevin Wilson with 
Daniel Lovat Clark
Playtesters: Patrick John Haggerty, Brent Bartlett, Patrick Burroughs, Chris Long, 
Mendel Schmiedekamp, Brian Olmstead, Christopher “Tarnis Phoenix” Seefeld, WiL 
Springer, Mike Linnemann, Bryan Bornmueller, Maximum Deb, Joshua B. Grace, Andrew 
Fischer, Erik Dahlman, Nate French, Damon “Stormaggedon Dark Lord of All” Stone, 
Francesco Moggia, Andrew Baussan, Brad Andres, Nathan LeSueur, Kalar Komarec, 
Andy Christensen, “Lovey the Snake,” Joseph Houff, Patrick Burroughs, John Laughlin, 
Brent Bartlett, Jon Waddington, Maya Waddington, Aiden Tanner, Chad Tanner, Becky 
Zamborsky, Steve Zamborsky, Kevin Ancell, Jimmie Hardin, jeremy barrett, James Abele, 
Michael Hurley, Michael Silsby, Julia Lewandowski, Mat Nowak, Josh Bailey, Johnny 
Anderson, Engoduun, Noshrok Grimskull, Emmanuel “Playful_EE” Estournet, Wormhole 
Surfer aka Ludovic Schmidt, JudgeWhyMe, The_Little_Bug, Hugo “Ophidian Lord,” Will 
“Kennon” Lentz, Richard A. Edwards, William Edwards, Kathy Bishop, Eric Damron, Joe 
Becker, “The Shadow,” and Nick Jordan. 
Wizards of the Coast Licensing Approvals Team
Senior Creative Director: Jon Schindehette
Editorial Review: Jennifer Wilkes Clark
Associate Brand Manager: Hilary Ross 
Netrunner is a TM of R. Talsorian Games, Inc. Android is TM & © 2012 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved. Netrunner is licensed by Wizards of the Coast LLC. © 2012 Wizards. Wizards of the Coast and 
its logo are property of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. Android, Fantasy Flight 
Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Living Card 
Game, LCG, and the LCG logo are registered trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, MN 55113, U.S.A., and can 
be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children 
under 36 months due to small parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER. 
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
Index
Accessing Cards..................... 18
Action................................12, 15
Action Phase........................... 12
Corporation....................... 12
Runner................................ 15
Active..........................................5
Agenda Points....................... 3, 8
Agendas............................... 8, 13
Forfeiting............................ 22
Installing............................ 13
Scoring................................ 14
Stealing............................... 18
Anarch.............................3, 5, 28
Archives Server.........................6
Assets..........................................9
Bad Publicity....................... 4, 17
Card Abilities.......................... 21
Card Types
Corporation.....................8–9
Runner..........................10–11
Central Servers..........................6
Clicks................................... 5, 12
Component Overview..............4
Corporations..............................3
Corporation’s Turn................. 12
Counters.....................................4
Credits.............................4, 5, 22

Criminal..........................3, 5, 28
Damage.................................... 20
Brain	4
Deckbuilding....................24, 25
Discard Phase
Corporation....................... 14
Runner................................ 15
Draw Phase............................. 12
Events.................................11, 15
Expose..................................... 22
Game Overview.........................3
Glossary................................... 30
Grip.............................................6
Haas-Bioroid...................3, 5, 26
Hardware...........................10, 15
Headquarters Server (HQ)......6
Heap............................................6
Hosting.................................... 22
Ice.....................................6, 9, 16
Icebreakers.............................. 16
Identity Cards......................... 24
Corporation..........................8
Runner................................ 10
Inactive.......................................5

Influence........................8, 10, 24
Installing
Corporation cards............. 13
Runner cards..................... 15
Introduction...............................2
Jack Out.............................17, 18
Jinteki...............................3, 5, 26
Maximum Hand Size.......14, 15
Minimum Deck Size....8, 10, 24
NBN.................................3, 5, 27
Negative Effects...................... 21
Neutral Cards............................3
Operations.................................8
Play Areas...................................6
Prevent or avoid..................... 21
Programs...........................11, 15
Remote Servers.............6, 13–14
Research and Development 
Server (R&D).............................6
Resources..........................10, 15
Rezzed and Unrezzed........ 5, 12
Rig....................................6, 7, 15
Roots...........................................6

Runs...................................16–19
Accessing Cards................ 18
Encountering Ice............... 18
Example.............................. 19
Runners......................................3
Runner’s Turn......................... 15
Self-referential Language.21–22
Setup...........................................5
Shaper..............................3, 5, 28
Simultaneous Effects.............. 22
Stack............................................6
Starter Decks..............................5
Strength.........................8, 16, 18
Subroutines............................. 16
Symbols................................... 22
Tags.......................................... 20
Removing........................... 15
The Golden Rule........................5
Timing Priority...................... 21
Token Bank................................5
Trace........................................ 20
Unique Cards.......................... 11
Upgrades....................................9
Weyland Consortium....3, 5, 27
Winning the Game................ 20

Can you survive the struggle for the Iron Throne?
The Great Houses of Westeros war and scheme, sacrificing knights and pawns in their efforts to rule the Seven 
Kingdoms. A Game of Thrones: The Card Game allows you to relive your favorite moments from George R.R. 
Martin’s A Song of Ice and Fire or rewrite history to win the Iron Throne for your favorite House.
With 220 cards, the A Game of Thrones: The Card Game Core Set provides 
you everything you need to play the only game that matters!
FANTASY 
FLIGHT 
GAMES
®
www.FantasyFlightgames.com
© 2012 George R.R. Martin. © 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved. No part of this product may be 
reproduced without specific permission. A Game of Thrones: The Card Game, Living Card Game, the Living Card Game logo, 
Fantasy Flight Games, and the Fantasy Flight Games logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc.

INITIATE RUN AGAINST SERVER
Is ice protecting the 
server?
Approach ice:
Continue the run?
Is the ice rezzed?
Will the Corp rez it?
Continue the run?
Is there more
ice protecting the 
server?
End Run
End Run
 Encounter ice:
• Break subroutines.
 	
 • Unbroken subroutines trigger.
Access Cards:
• Rez cards.
• Run is successful.
• Access cards.
• End run.
YES
NO
Is there more ice protecting the server?