Rules of Play

Table of Contents
Errata	 
Introduction	
1.1	
Learning the Game	
1.2 
Definitions 
1.3 
Game Components 
Game Overview	 
2.1 
Factions 
2.2	
Playing the Game	 
2.3 
Game Map 
2.4 
Playing Pieces 
Setting Up the Game	
Sequence of Play	 
4.1 
Abbreviated Sequence of Play 
4.2 
Expanded Sequence of Play 
Operations	
5.1 
Operations Phase 
5.2 
Operations Cards 
5.3 
Operations Deck 
5.4 
Operations Pack 
First Player Chart	
7.1 
What Can Move and When 
7.2 
How Forces Move 
Units, Columns and Forces	
8.1 
Columns 
Combat	 
9.1 
Combat Definitions 
9.2 
Combat – General Rules 
9.3 
Combat Procedure 
9.4 
Automatic Victory 
9.5 
Revealing Combat Units 
9.6 
Airgroups in Combat 
9.7 
Air Strikes 
9.8 
Artillery 
9.9 
Mines and Minefields 
9.10 
Anti-Tank Missiles 
9.11 
Combat Resolution 
9.12 
Straggling 
9.13 
Towns and Cities in Combat 
Towns and Cities	 
10.1 
Initial Deployment of Control Markers 
16
10.2 
Uncontrolled Towns and Cities 
10.3 
Capturing Towns and Cities 
10.4 
Winning Victory Tokens 
10.5 
Towns and Cities as Assets 
How to Win the Game	
11.1 
Victory Overview 
11.2 
11.3 
Victory Track 
11.4 
Winning a Turn 
11.5 
Decisive Victory 
11.6 
End of Game Victory 
New Troops	
12.1 
Direct Foreign Aid 
12.2 
Crisis Table 
12.3 
Recruitment 
12.4 
Covert Foreign Aid 
Infantry Brigades	
Special Areas	
14.1 
Zaire 
14.2 
South-West Africa 
14.3 
Cabinda 
Alliance Rules	
Counter Limitations	
Unit and Equipment Descriptions	 
17.1 
Artillery Units 
17.2 
Armored Units 
17.3 
Engineers 
17.4 
Anti-Aircraft and Anti-Tank Missiles 
17.5 
Mines and Minefields 
17.6 
Mercenaries 
Hints on Play	
Game Notes	
Credits	 
Card Errata 
Appendix 1: Unit Counters 
Appendix 2: The Changing Face of War 
Errata
15 December 2013
Errata in this edition is indicated by a ¶ symbol 
and modified or additional text in color.

Introduction
Angola! is a game that simulates a short period (July 1975 to 
April 1976) of the long civil war that racked Angola for over 
two decades. Angola! is best as a four-player game, with each 
player taking one of the conflict’s major Factions: FNLA, 
UNITA, FAPLA or MPLA. Although there are four players, 
there are only two sides. The FNLA and UNITA players are 
allied against the FAPLA and MPLA players. 
The game emphasizes the international repercussions of suc-
cess and failure in the fighting. Each Faction has sufficient man-
power to sustain its war effort, but the sophisticated weapons 
essential to winning the war can only be obtained from outside 
Angola. Even more important is the military involvement of 
foreign powers (South Africa, Cuba and Zaire), whose willing-
ness to commit men and materiel can be the difference between 
survival and defeat.
1.1	 Learning the Game
Angola! is not complicated, but it does include many involved 
processes. The best way to learn is to use the player aid cards, 
all of which are cross-referenced to these rules. 
Study the definitions (1.2) and the game overview (2) to famil-
iarize yourself with the map and the playing pieces. Then set 
up the game and follow the expanded sequence of play (4.2), 
making reference to specific rules as needed. Pay particular at-
tention to the rules sections on Units, Columns and Forces (8), 
How to Win the Game (11), and Special Areas (14). 
1.2 Definitions
The following defined terms are capitalized in the rules (note 
there are other capitalized terms that are not found in this sec-
tion).
Alliance
One of the two opposing alliances in the game. FAPLA and 
MPLA form the Soviet-backed alliance, and UNITA and FNLA 
form the Western-backed alliance (2.1). Factions of an Alliance 
can side together in combat.
Column
A Column is one or more Units of the same Faction underneath 
a Column marker of that Faction (8).
Enemy
Any Unit or Equipment counter controlled by or belonging to a 
Faction of the opposing Alliance.
Equipment
Mines, minefields, anti-aircraft missiles and anti-tank missiles 
are Equipment. Equipment cannot move except when attached 
to a Force. When attached to a Force, a piece of Equipment is 
considered a part of that Force (2.4.2).
Faction
FAPLA, MPLA, UNITA and the FNLA are Factions (2.1). 
A Force is any combination of Units or Columns in the same 
region. It could be one or more Units, or one or more Columns, 
or a combination of Units and Columns (8).
Friendly
Any Unit or Equipment counter controlled by or belonging to a 
Faction of your Alliance.
Operation
An Operation is the play of an Operations Card. An Operation 
may involve movement or combat or a reorganization of Col-
umns (5). 
Unit 
A Unit is a combat unit. A Unit can be one of the following 
types: infantry; armored car; tank; artillery battery; engineer; 
airgroup. Column markers, game markers, and Equipment 
counters are not Units (2.4.1 and 8). 
1.3	 Game Components
This game contains:
One rule book
Two sheets of 5/8” cardboard counters
One 34 x 22” map
Four 8.5 x 11” player aid cards (one for each player)
One deck of 110 cards (65 playing cards plus 45 duplicates, 
see production note on page 23) 
Game Overview
2.1	 Factions
¶ Angola! is best played by four players, each player taking 
control of one Faction. Games with fewer players are possible, 
though they are not as well-balanced.
The four Factions are FAPLA, MPLA, UNITA and FNLA:
FAPLA (Forças Armadas Populares de Libertação de 
Angola, the Popular Armed Forces for the Liberation of 
Angola) is based around the capital, Luanda.
MPLA (Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola, the 
Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola) is based in 
eastern Angola. 
FAPLA and MPLA make up the Soviet-backed FAPLA/MPLA 
Alliance.
UNITA (União Nacional para a Independência Total de 
Angola, the National Union for the Total Independence of 
Angola) is based in South-West Africa.
FNLA (Frente Nacional de Libertação de Angola, the Na-
tional Front for the Liberation of Angola) is based in Zaire.
UNITA and FNLA make up the Western-backed UNITA/FNLA 
Alliance.
Both Factions within each Alliance work together towards a 
common victory. A Faction cannot win the game. Only an Alli-
ance can win the game.
2.2	 Playing the Game
Each of the game turns represents one month of real time. The 
game always ends after ten turns, but it can end earlier if one 
Alliance wins a decisive victory (11.5). Victory (11) is primar-
ily determined by the capture of towns and cities (10.3), and 
also by winning the propaganda war (12.4.3).

Each Turn consists of three phases:
Planning Phase (4.2 and 5.4). 
Operations Phase (7). 
End Phase (4.2, 10, 11, 12, and 13). 
There is an Expanded Sequence of Play (4.2) with cross-refer-
ences to specific rules sections. You can use this to play the 
game without reading specific rules sections first.
2.3	 Game Map
2.3.1	 Regions
The map is divided into regions of varying size. Regions that 
share a common border are considered adjacent, which is im-
portant for movement (7) and combat (9). 
Allied Forces (2.1) may occupy the same region and will de-
fend together if attacked (9.2). There is no limit to the number 
of Friendly Forces that can occupy the same region.
Units from opposing Factions only ever occupy the same region 
immediately before the resolution of combat.
2.3.2	 Terrain
There are four types of terrain: clear, jungle, savannah, and 
hills. In addition, there are various terrain features such as 
roads, escarpments, towns and cities. 
The terrain key on the map shows the different terrain types and 
terrain features. Terrain type defines each region, so a region 
must be either a clear, jungle, savannah or hill region. Terrain 
features do not define a region.
Terrain and terrain features affect movement (7), combat (9), 
deployment of new troops (12), and victory conditions (11). 
2.3.3	 Special Cities and Areas
There are special rules that apply to the cities of Cabinda and 
the areas of Zaire and South-West Africa (14).
2.3.4	 Ports
A port is defined as a town or city in a region bordering the sea. 
(Exception: Cabinda is not treated as a port in these rules.)
2.3.5	 Map Play Aids
Play aids on the map are the First Player Chart (6), the Victory 
Track (11.3), the Air Mission Completed Box (9.6), the Terrain 
Key, and the Turn Record Track.
2.4	 Playing Pieces
The cardboard playing counters include informational markers 
as well as counters representing military Units and Equipment. 
2.4.1	 Units
The Units are: 
• Infantry
• Armored cars (17.2.2)
• Tanks (17.2.1)
• Artillery (17.1)
• Engineers (17.3)
• Airgroups (9.6)
Most unit counters are referred to as Minor Units. However, 
counters with a white band across them are Major Units.
Units are color-coded for each of the four Factions.
ILLUSTRATION: Minor Unit counters.
Infantry, armored cars, tanks and engineers have NATO sym-
bols printed on them to help indicate which is which.
Infantry
Tank
Engineer
Artillery
Airgroup
Armored cars and tanks are both considered armored Units 
(17.2).
Mercenaries are a type of infantry and are indicated by the word 
‘Merc’ (17.6). 
Infantry Brigades are large infantry formations that players can 
form from existing infantry Units (13).
Major Units are foreign aid troops—they are colored a different 
shade of the Faction color. Purple Units represent South Afri-
cans; light green Units are Zairois; orange and deep red Units 
represent the Cubans. 
Major Units function just like other Units with a few exceptions 
noted in the rules (12). Each Faction has four Major Units. 
Armored Car
ILLUSTRATION: Counter information.
ILLUSTRATION (left to right): Mercenary Unit; Infantry 
Brigade; Major Unit.
Note that Units have widely differing combat capabilities as 
indicated by the information on their counters. Some Units 
only have a combat strength (e.g., infantry); other Units have 
no combat strength but provide Combat Dice Points (9.11.2) 
(e.g., Minor Unit armored cars (17.2.2)); mercenary infantry 
and tank Units (17.2.1) have a combat strength and provide 
Combat Dice Points; artillery Units (17.1) and airgroups (9.6) 
only have pips to indicate the number of dice they roll on the 
Hit Table (9.3.1). Engineer Units (17.3) have no combat mark-
ings but provide special combat benefits.

2.4.2	 Equipment
The Equipment counters are:
• Anti-aircraft missiles
• Anti-tank missiles
Equipment assets are not Units and are not colored by Faction. 
Instead, they come from a central pool used by all players.
Note especially that Columns are not Units; they are organiza-
tional markers. Because only Units in Columns may attack, the 
Column rules are very important (8).
2.4.4	 Operations Cards
Operations Cards drive the activation of a player’s Units (5 and 
7).
ILLUSTRATION: Equipment counters.
When a player receives a piece of Equipment as a reinforce-
ment (12.4), he assigns it to one of his Forces, usually by plac-
ing it directly beneath a Unit of that Force. There is no limit to 
the amount of Equipment that can be assigned to a Force. 
Equipment may be freely exchanged at any time between Forc-
es of the same Faction that are in the same region, even if one of 
the Forces is in the process of moving through the region. 
The use of Equipment is always optional. Equipment left by 
itself, because all the Units in a Faction’s Forces in that region 
are eliminated, is immediately returned to the Equipment pool. 
Although Units are revealed to the Enemy during combat, 
the Equipment a Force carries remains a secret until it is used 
(Exception: Minefields (9.9.1)). Players should therefore keep 
Equipment counters covered over by a Unit of the carrying 
Force until used.
The use of Equipment is described in 9 and 17.
2.4.3	 Informational Markers
The informational markers are: 
• Column markers (8)
• Control Markers for Towns and Cities (10)
• Victory Tokens (11.2)
• Victory Track Marker (11.3)
• First Player Marker (6)
• Turn Marker (4.2)
• +1 Jungle Markers (7.2)
Anti-aircraft
Missile
Anti-tank
Missile
Mine
Minefield
Column
Control
Victory Token
Victory Track
First Player 
Jungle Marker
2.4.5	 Reinforcement Cards
Reinforcement Cards determine the contribution of covert for-
eign aid (12.4).
Setting Up the Game
STEP 1:
Players sit as follows around the map:
FAPLA - to the West of the map (near Luanda)
FNLA - to the North of the map (near Zaire)
MPLA - to the East of the map (near Luso)
UNITA - to the South of the map (near South-West Africa)
Sort the Units, Operations Cards, and Victory Tokens by Fac-
tion.
Each player sets aside his Operations Cards marked with a turn 
number (e.g., “Turn 3”); these are added to the player’s Opera-
tions Deck at the beginning of the appropriate turn. The rest of 
the Operations Cards are available for immediate use.
Each player places his five Victory Tokens and four Major Units 
off-map. Turn the Major Units face down. (Players should take 
care not to mix up Major Units and Infantry Brigades. Major 
Units are marked as either “Cuban”, “Zairois” or “S.Africa” 
(South African) and are colored differently.)
Put the Equipment counters (minefields/mines and missiles) in 
a central pool.
• Mines
• Minefields
ILLUSTRATION: Informational markers.

STEP 2:
Place both Victory Track Markers in the “20” space of the Vic-
tory Track; place the First Player Marker beside the First Player 
Chart; place the Turn Marker in the “Turn 1” space of the Turn 
Record. Shuffle the Reinforcement Card deck and place it to 
one side.
STEP 3:
Each Faction takes the following Control Markers and places 
them face up and off-map:
FAPLA: Luanda
FNLA: Maquela do Zombo, Santo António
MPLA: Luso
UNITA: Pereira de Eça
Place the remaining 23 Control Markers together in an opaque 
container.
Note: There is no Control Marker for Cabinda.
STEP 4:
The players now deploy some of their Units and Column mark-
ers as follows:
Five infantry Units and one armored car in Luanda
Column markers A, B, C, D and nine infantry Units tempo-
rarily off-map
Three infantry Units in Maquela do Zombo
Two infantry Units in Santo António
Three infantry Units in the FLEC Base
Column markers A, B, C, D, E and 12 infantry Units tem-
porarily off-map
Four infantry Units and one armored car in Luso
One infantry Unit in Cabinda
Two infantry Units in the jungle region adjacent to the 
FLEC Base
Column markers A, B, C, D and 11 infantry Units temporar-
ily off-map
Four infantry Units in Pereira de Eça
Column markers A, B, C, D and nine infantry Units tempo-
rarily off-map
There will be Units left over after this deployment; set these 
undeployed Units aside for later use during the game; they have 
no role during game set-up.
STEP 5:
Each Faction randomly and secretly draws the following 
number of Control Markers from the opaque container:
FAPLA, UNITA: four Control Markers each
MPLA, FNLA: five Control Markers each
Place these Control Markers secretly face up and off-map. Play-
ers may not look at each other’s Control Markers at this time. 
There will be five Control Markers left in the container. Keep 
them there for now.
NOTE: To help players locate the various towns and cit-
ies on the map, a code has been printed onto each Control 
Marker. E.g.: “Lucala NW” means that Lucala is to be 
found somewhere in the north-west portion of Angola.
STEP 6:
NOTE: At this point, all the players should have some Units 
deployed on the map, and other Units and Column mark-
ers and Control Markers temporarily deployed off-map. As 
noted above the other Units that were set aside in Step 4 
play no role in the set-up.
Each Player now takes his Units that are deployed temporarily 
off-map and secretly places all of them on top of his off-map 
Control Markers. No more than four Units may be placed on a 
single Control Marker, but it is permissible to leave one or more 
Control Markers without any Units.
STEP 7:
Players may now use all, some or none of the Column markers 
received in Step 4 to create Columns from among the on-map 
and off-map Units placed in Steps 4 and 6. Column markers not 
used in this step remain available off-map for later use. See 8 
for more detail on Columns. 
Place the Column marker on a region or off-map Control Mark-
er. Any number of Units in that region or on the Control Marker 
can be placed beneath the Column marker to create a Column. 
Units in other regions or on different off-map Control Markers 
cannot join the Column.
STEP 8:
Players now deploy all of their off-map Forces onto the map. 
Each Force is placed on the town or city corresponding to the 
Control Marker on which it was placed. Off-map Forces may 
now be combined with other Units deployed in the same region. 
This means, for example, that if a Column is placed in a city or 
town that already has Units, those Units may now be added to 
the Column. Note that the Control Markers remain face up and 
off-map but are no longer secret.
PLAY NOTE: Players should take care to keep their Control 
Markers face up. Control Markers that are captured during 
the game are flipped face down in front of their new owners 
and are treated differently from face up Control Markers 
(10.2, 10.3, 10.5, 12.1, 12.3 and 12.4).
STEP 9:
Now take the five Control Markers left in the opaque container 
from Step 5 and place each of them face up on the map on its 
corresponding town or city. 
PLAY NOTE: Each of these uncontrolled Control Markers 
can be captured by any Faction whose Forces end a move 
there (10).
STEP 10:
Begin Turn 1.

Sequence of Play
4.1	 Abbreviated Sequence of Play 
1. Planning Phase
a) Check for New Operations Cards (5.3)
b) Create Operations Packs (5.4)
c) Determine the First Player (6)
2. Operations Phase (7)
Beginning with the turn’s first player (6) and then going 
clockwise, each player turns over the top Operations Card 
in his Operations Pack, and takes the appropriate actions for 
that card (e.g., moving Forces, resolving combat). Play con-
tinues in this way until all cards have been turned over. 
3. End Phase
a) Victory Determination (11)
b) Reorganization (8 and 13)
c) Direct Foreign Aid (12.1)
d) Recruitment (12.3)
e) Covert Foreign Aid (12.4)
f) Clean Up (9.6, 10.3 and 11.2)
4.2	 Expanded Sequence of Play
1. Planning Phase
a) Check for New Operations Cards 
All players should first check to see if they are to add any 
Operations Cards bearing the current turn number to their 
Operations Deck (5.3).
NOTE: Players will add one Operations Card on turns 3, 
4, 5 and 6.
b) Create Operations Packs
All players check the Turn Record Track to see how many 
Operations Cards they can use to create their Operations 
Pack (5.4).
All Players secretly create their Operations Pack, keeping 
unused Operations Cards in their Operations Deck, and ar-
ranging their Operations Pack face down with the first card 
to be played on top (5.4).
c) Determine the First Player
Determine who goes first by rolling on the First Player 
Chart on the map. Note that the procedure for determining 
the first player on turn 1 is different from the procedure for 
the rest of the game (6).
2. Operations Phase (5)
Beginning with the turn’s first player, and proceeding clockwise 
thereafter, the player to go turns over the top Operations Card 
in his Operations Pack. If the card is a blank, play immediately 
passes to the next player. If the card is not a blank, the player 
takes any permissible actions (see 2A below) and then play 
passes to the next player.
2A. Possibilities During the Operations Phase
a) Blank Operations Card flipped. 
No permissible actions, play immediately passes to next 
player clockwise (5.2).
b) Column Card flipped (5, 7, 8, 9)
Player may first detach one or more Units from the Column 
to leave behind (8).
Player may move the Column per the movement rules (7, 
8).
Combat is immediately resolved if the Column ends its 
movement in a region with an Enemy Force (9).
c) 5th Column Card flipped (5, 7)
Player may move one or more Units that are not part of 
a Column and that are in the same region. They may not 
enter an Enemy-occupied region, and combat is therefore 
not possible. 
d) Command Card flipped (5, 8)
Player may: 
i) remove a Column marker from a Force that has not 
moved this turn and place it onto a Force that does not have 
a Column marker and that has not moved this turn; or
ii) swap Column markers between two Columns that have 
not moved this turn. 
A player may keep the composition of Forces in the Col-
umns secret during the process.
3. End Phase
A) Victory Determination (11)
(i) ¶ Check to see if an Alliance has won a decisive victory.
(ii) Both Alliances total their Victory Tokens to see if an Al-
liance has won the turn.
(iii) If an Alliance won the turn, it moves its Victory Track 
Marker one, two or three spaces down the Victory Track.
(iv) ¶ If it is the end of turn 10, the game is over, check to 
see who won.
B) Reorganization (8, 13)
Players may form Infantry Brigades (13) and reorganize 
their Columns (8).
C) Direct Foreign Aid (12.1)
If an Alliance lost the turn, its member Factions check their 
Victory Tokens against the Direct Foreign Aid Table to see 
if they receive foreign troops.
D) Recruitment (12.3)
All Factions may now recruit and deploy troops.
E) Covert Foreign Aid (12.4)
All Factions now bid for and use Reinforcement Cards to 
receive covert foreign aid.
F) Clean Up (9.6, 10.3, 11.2)
Players take airgroups from the Air Mission Completed Box 
back into their possession and return Victory Tokens to their 
original Faction owners. Turn all Town and City Control 
Markers face up. Advance the Turn Marker one space.
Operations
5.1	 Operations Phase
The Operations Phase is when players organize and move their 
Units, and initiate combat. Perform an Operation by playing an 
Operations Card and performing the actions it allows. 

The first player for the turn begins the Operations Phase by 
turning over the top Operations Card in his Operations Pack 
for all to see. If it is a blank, play passes immediately to the 
next player clockwise. Otherwise, the first player may take any 
permitted actions with his Forces. After he is done and after any 
resulting combat is resolved, play passes immediately to the 
next player clockwise and continues in this way until all Opera-
tions Cards have been played.
5.2	 Operations Cards
There are four types of Operations Cards:
5.4	 Operations Pack
During the Planning Phase, each player uses the cards from his 
Operations Deck to make up his Operations Pack for the turn. 
Players must first check the Turn Record track to see the number 
and type of Operations Cards they get for that turn.
EXAMPLE: On Turn 4 players add a second Column B card 
to their Deck and may use 5 Operations Cards in their Pack. 
On Turn 5 they add a 5th Column card to their Deck and 
make up an Operations Pack of 6 cards.
The players then secretly create their Operations Pack by stack-
ing their chosen Operations Cards face down in the reverse 
order to be played, so that the first face down card to be played 
is on the top of the stack. 
The MPLA, FAPLA and UNITA players must include the blank 
Operations Cards in their Operations Pack (5.2).
Once a player has set his Operations Pack for the turn, no 
one—including the owning player—can examine the Opera-
tions Pack. The cards are turned over and revealed one at a time 
as play proceeds.
ILLUSTRATION (Left to Right): Blank, Column, Command 
and 5th Column cards.
Blank Operations Card
Take no action. MPLA and FAPLA each have one blank Opera-
tions Card, UNITA has two, and FNLA has none. A Faction’s 
blanks must be included in its Operations Pack. The blank rep-
resents command confusion. When a blank Operations Card is 
turned over, play passes to the next player.
Column Card
Move and fight with the designated Column. Column Cards 
each have a letter corresponding to the lettered Columns. When 
a Column Card is turned over, it permits the Column of the cor-
responding Faction and letter to be moved. See 7 for movement 
and 8 for Columns.
Command Card
Adjust Columns. A Command Card permits the player to rede-
ploy one of his Column markers from one Column to another 
Force, or to trade Column markers between two of his Col-
umns. A Command Card may not be used on a Force that has 
already moved that turn and it does not permit a Force to move. 
However, a Command Card does not stop a Force from moving 
later in that turn. 
A player may keep the contents of Columns secret while mak-
ing Columns or trading markers with a Command Card. See 8 
for Columns.
5th Column Card
Move a non-Column Force. A 5th Column Card permits a 
player to move Force not currently in a Column. The Force so 
moved may not enter an Enemy-occupied region (this means it 
cannot launch an attack).
5.3	 Operations Deck
All of a player’s Operations Cards that are available for play 
make up that player’s Operations Deck. Note that at the begin-
ning of the game, some Operations Cards are not available for 
play. These are the Operations Cards that have a turn number on 
them; they are not added to a player’s Operations Deck until the 
beginning of the Planning Phase of the designated turn.
EXAMPLE: It is the first turn and the FAPLA arranges his 
Operations Cards as shown above. As it is Turn 1, each 
player is allowed four cards. The FAPLA player must al-
ways include his blank card in his Operations Pack. The 5th 
Column Card is on the top of the pack so it will be turned 
over first. Column A will be able to move twice, after the 5th 
Column moves and after the blank card is turned over.
First Player Chart
The First Player Chart is used during step (c) of the Planning 
Phase to determine which player goes first that turn.
On Turn 1 only: To determine the first player any player rolls a 
die. A roll of 1 to 4 determines the first player according to the 
First Player Chart. Roll again on a 5 or 6. Once the first player 
is determined, place the First Player Marker as appropriate on 
the First Player Chart.
On all turns after Turn 1: To determine the first player the 
previous turn’s first player rolls a die. A roll of 1 to 4 determines 
the first player according to the First Player Chart. A roll of 5 
or 6 means that the player sitting to the left of the die roller be-
comes the turn’s first player. Once the first player is determined, 
place the First Player Marker in the appropriate space on the 
First Player Chart.

Movement of a Force is made possible when the appropriate 
Operations Card is flipped during the Operations Phase.
7.1	 What Can Move and When
If an Operations Card for a Column is flipped, that particular 
Column can be moved by the owning player. This is the only 
time that a Column can be moved. A Column can be moved into 
a region containing Enemy Forces, and as soon as it does so it 
stops movement for that Operation. Then combat is initiated 
and resolved (9).
If a 5th Column Operations Card is flipped, the owning player 
can move any Force that is not a Column out of one region. 
This means that he may move one or more of his Units together 
from the same region but that these Units may not be part of 
a Column. The moving Force must stay together for its entire 
move. The moving Force may not be moved into a region that 
contains Enemy Forces. 
7.2	 How Forces Move
Forces can move into adjacent regions. Normally, a Force 
moves from the region it is in to an adjacent region and then 
immediately stops movement. However, there are four excep-
tions to this rule.
Exception One: Road Movement
A Force can move up to six regions if it begins in a region with 
a road and only crosses into each new adjacent region along a 
road.
Exception Two: Clear Terrain Movement
A Force can move up to three regions if it begins in a region 
with clear terrain and moves only into adjacent regions with 
clear terrain.
Exception Three: Combination of Road and Clear Terrain 
A Force can move up to three regions using a combination of 
road and clear terrain movement if, when crossing into each 
new adjacent region one of the following conditions is met: 
a) the new region is connected to the old region by a road; or 
b) both the old region and the new region are clear terrain. 
Exception Four: Jungle Movement
Each jungle region has a jungle rating printed in 
it. A Force trying to exit a jungle region without 
using road movement must roll equal to or greater 
than the jungle rating on a six-sided die in order to 
exit the region. If the Force rolls less than the jun-
gle rating, its movement ends and the owing player places a +1 
jungle marker on the Force. The next time that Force attempts 
to move out of the jungle, add one to the die roll. If it fails again, 
add another +1 Jungle Marker to the first one. Repeat this pro-
cess, adding +1 to the die roll for each +1 Jungle Marker, until 
the Force exits the jungle (at some point the accumulation of +1 
markers will make the move automatic).
A +1 Jungle Marker remains with a Force until that Force 
moves, retreats or combines with another Force. At which point 
it is removed.
Other movement exceptions:
Artillery Units may never enter an Enemy-occupied region un-
less accompanied by non-artillery Units.
Tank Units and Major Units that are also artillery may only 
move through clear terrain or along roads. Should one of these 
Units be forced to move or retreat through savannah, jungle 
or hills, it is destroyed. Note that the FAPLA rocket battery is 
considered a Major Unit that is artillery.
EXAMPLE: The tank Force in Lobito is forbidden to move 
into the jungle at region 1. However, it can move to regions 
2. or 3. via Novo Redondo and Porto Amboim, as these are 
all clear areas. It can also move to the jungle area of Gabe-
la via Novo Redondo because these regions are connected 
by roads. It could then continue moving along the road to 
region 3 and beyond.
Column C at Gabela can move to Porto Amboim via Novo 
Redondo along the road. However, if it tried to move direct-
ly across the non-road boundary it would first need to roll a 
3 or more on a die. Failure would mean its move ended.

Units, Columns and 
Forces
The Units in the game are: infantry, armored cars, tanks, artil-
lery (including the FAPLA rocket battery), engineers, and air-
groups. Stacks of Units not in Columns can be examined by 
other players at any time, though not any Equipment they car-
ry—keep Equipment hidden until revealed in combat (2.4.2).
A Column is one or more Units of the same Faction underneath 
a Column marker of that Faction. Once Units are placed in a 
Column, they can only be examined by the owning player; such 
Units must be revealed, however, during combat (9.5).
Columns are important because only Units that are part of a 
Column may enter an Enemy-occupied region. This means that 
Units may only attack if they are in a Column.
A Force is any combination of Units and/or Columns. This 
means that a Force is one or more Units, or one or more Col-
umns, or any combination of one or more Units and Columns.
8.1	 Columns
A Column marker is either in use, which means it is on the map 
stacked on top of one or more Units, or it is available, which 
means it is sitting off-map.
Players can create Columns on only three occasions: 
(i) while setting up the game (3); 
(ii) on play of a Command Card (this section, below); and 
(iii) during Step B of the End Phase (4, and below). 
The number of Column markers supplied to a Faction is the 
limit on the number of Columns that Faction can have (16). 
2. Play of a Command Card
After a Command Card has been played, the owning player 
may: 
a) Remove a Column marker from a Column that has not 
moved this turn and place it onto a Force that does not have 
a Column marker and that has not moved this turn; or 
b) Swap Column markers between two Columns that have not 
moved this turn. 
A player may keep the composition of the Columns secret dur-
ing this process.
3. End Phase Reorganization
During the End Phase, a player is free to:
a) Combine multiple Columns and/or Forces in the same re-
gion into a single column. If two or more Columns were 
combined choose one Column marker to mark the stack and 
remove any now-unused Column markers off-map.
b) Create a new Column using an off-map Column marker. 
(Column markers just moved off-map due to combining 
Columns can be used to create new Columns).
Note that the composition of a Column can be involuntarily 
changed as the result of combat (9) and straggling (9.12).
There are many steps in the combat procedure; players should 
use the Player Aid card and refer to the rules as necessary.
9.1 Combat Definitions
Combat Region. The region where the combat occurs.
Attacker. The Column that moved into the Combat Re-
gion. 
Defender. The non-moving Forces in the Combat Region.
Attacker’s Region. The last region from which the At-
tacker moved into the Combat Region.
Supporting Region. Any region adjacent to the Combat 
Region that contains a Force of the Attacker’s Faction (not 
Alliance). The Attacker’s Region can never be a Supporting 
Region.
ILLUSTRATION: A stack of Units with a Column counter.
To create a Column, a player simply takes an available (i.e., 
off-map) Column marker and places it on top of one or more of 
his Units that occupy the same region. A player does not have to 
place all the Units in a region in the Column, as long as at least 
one Unit is so placed.
There is no limit to the number of Units that can be in a Col-
umn, but there must always be at least one Unit in a Column. 
If a Column loses its last Unit, take the Column marker off the 
map; the Column marker is immediately available.
Once a Column is created, a player may change the Column’s 
composition under only three circumstances:
1. Detachment Before a Move
After a Column’s Operations Card has been played but before 
the Column moves, it may detach one or more Units. The 
detached Unit or Units are placed in the same region as the 
Column and are no longer a part of the Column. They are not 
considered to have moved. 
Note that a Column does not have to move following a detach-
ment. A Column may not detach its last Unit.
EXAMPLE: Column B moves to attack the FNLA infantry 
Unit. Region 1. is the Combat Region; 2. is the Attacker’s 
region; 3. is a Supporting Region containing Column A. 

9.2	 Combat – General Rules
Combat occurs when a Column enters a region containing En-
emy Forces. As soon as this happens the Column stops move-
ment, combat is initiated, and the players resolve the combat. 
All Forces in a Combat Region must participate in the combat. 
If two Factions defend together as one side in a combat, the 
player controlling the most Defending Units in that region con-
ducts the defense and assigns losses. If both defending Factions 
have an equal number of Units, then either the FNLA or FAPLA 
conduct the defense.
9.3	 Combat Procedure
Perform the following steps in strict order for each combat. A 
full rules description follows in this section.
Step 1 
Check for Automatic Victory (9.4)
Step 2 
Commit and Reveal Airgroups (9.6.2)
Step 3 
Reveal Combat Units (9.5)
Step 4 
Resolve Air-to-Air Combat (9.6.3)
Step 5 
Resolve Air Strikes (9.7)
Step 6 
Fire Artillery (9.8)
Step 7 
Use Minefields (9.9)
Step 8 
Fire Anti-tank Missiles (9.10)
Step 9 
Resolve Combat (9.11)
Step 10 Resolve Stragglers (9.12)
Step 11 Transfer Markers and Victory Tokens (9.13)
9.3.1	 Hit Table
The Hit Table is used at several junctures in the Combat Pro-
cedure to resolve air-to-air combat (9.6.3), air strikes (9.7), and 
missile (9.7, 9.10) and artillery (9.8) fire. Refer back to this sec-
tion as directed below.
the end of a combat, so suppressed Units remain suppressed.)
Major Units that are eliminated are permanently removed from 
play (Exception: 12.2). All other eliminated Units can be recy-
cled.
9.4	 Automatic Victory 
Automatic Victory is checked during Step 1 of the Combat 
Procedure.
If the Attacker has at least six times as many combat strength 
points as the Defender, and the Defender does not include a 
Column, then the entire Defending Force is eliminated. In case 
of Automatic Victory, proceed directly to Step 7 (Use Mine-
fields), followed by Step 11 (Transfer Markers and Victory To-
kens). Both players simply announce how many strength points 
they have and the Attacker need not reveal the actual composi-
tion of his Column. Eliminated Units and Equipment are taken 
off-map and may be returned to play later, except for eliminated 
Major Units, which are permanently removed from play (9.3.3).
¶ Count the strength of all attacking engineers as one each for 
purposes of calculating automatic victory odds, regardless of 
the presence of a minefield, town or city. This is an exception to 
the Rule 17.3 procedure, which is triggered only if there is no 
automatic victory.
Some Units, such as Minor Unit armored cars, do not have a 
combat strength. One or more Minor Unit armored cars in a 
Force with no other types of Units are considered to have a 
combat strength of one each and do not use their Combat Dice 
Points in combat.
An Automatic Victory ends a Column’s move the same as any 
other combat. 
9.5	 Revealing Combat Units
Combat Units are revealed during Step 3 of the Combat Pro-
After airgroups are revealed (9.6.2) but before air-to-air combat 
is resolved, both players must reveal all Units in the combat 
hidden beneath Column markers. Only Units need be revealed; 
Equipment may be kept secret (2.4.2).
9.6	 Airgroups in Combat
9.6.1	 Airgroups 
Although airgroups are defined as Units, they do not move or 
engage in combat like other Units. Instead, they remain off-map 
until committed to a combat. 
Each player keeps his available airgroups off-map but visible to 
other players. After an airgroup is used in combat, it is placed 
in the Air Mission Completed Box on the map. It is not returned 
to its owner until the end of the turn.
Airgroups can be used against Enemy airgroups (in air supe-
riority missions) or against Enemy troops (in ground support 
missions).
9.6.2	 Committing and Revealing Airgroups
During Step 2 of the Combat Procedure, the Attacker and De-
fender may commit any available airgroups to the combat. Air-
groups in the Air Mission Completed Box are not available to 
be committed. If the Defender has a Column in the combat, the 
Miss
Suppression
Hit
9.3.2	 Explanation of Hit Table Results
Miss = No effect
Suppression = One Unit is flipped over and cannot partici-
pate in this combat any longer, except to take hits and losses. 
Hit = One unsuppressed Unit is eliminated, or one sup-
pressed Unit is eliminated and one unsuppressed Unit is 
suppressed.
9.3.3	 How to Apply Hit Table Results
All results are applied by the owning player.
A player may opt to convert two suppressions to one hit.
If a player receives more suppressions than he has Units, he 
ignores the excess suppression results.
¶ If every Unit of a Force in combat is suppressed, then the 
entire Force conducts the combat with a combat strength of 1/2 
(not of its total combat strength), may not fire anti-aircraft or 
anti-tank missiles, and receives no die roll modifiers.
All Units become unsuppressed and are flipped back over at the 
end of the combat. (Note that a “combat continues” result is not 

players secretly commit their airgroups to the combat and then 
simultaneously reveal the number of their committed airgroups. 
If the Defender does not have a Column in the combat, the At-
tacker is allowed to commit his airgroups after the Defender 
has revealed the number of airgroups he committed. (Note that 
if there are two Factions defending, both commit and reveal 
airgroups following this procedure.)
A player can commit none, some, or all of his available air-
groups to a combat. If a player has no available airgroups, then 
he commits none.
9.6.3	 Air-to-Air Combat
Air-to-air combat is resolved during Step 4 of the Combat Pro-
If the players have committed the same number of airgroups to 
a combat, then all the committed airgroups must be used for air 
superiority missions. 
If the players have committed different numbers of airgroups, 
the player who committed the fewest airgroups must use them 
all for air superiority missions. The other player must commit 
at least as many airgroups to air superiority missions as his op-
ponent; he is then free to commit his remaining airgroups as he 
sees fit to either air superiority or ground support missions.
PLAY NOTE: A player can commit any number of airgroups 
to a combat, but the missions that those airgroups perform 
(i.e., air superiority or ground support) will depend not only 
on the owning player’s choice, but also on his opponent’s 
choice, and on the outcome of any air-to-air combat and 
anti-aircraft fire. Of particular importance is the fact that 
no matter how many airgroups a player commits to ground 
support, only a maximum of two will be able to perform the 
mission (see 9.7). The reason you might commit more than 
two airgroups to ground support missions is to increase the 
odds that one or more will survive air-to-air combat and 
anti-aircraft fire.
Air-to-air combat is resolved simultaneously using the Hit Ta-
ble (9.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.3). Each player rolls dice against the Hit 
Table equal to the number of pips on each airgroup counter he 
has committed to air superiority missions. Results are applied 
to Enemy airgroups. 
Note that combat results are applied to all airgroups committed 
to the combat, not just those flying air superiority missions.
Following the resolution of air-to-air combat, all surviving air-
groups that flew air superiority missions are placed in the Air 
Mission Completed Box (suppressed airgroups placed in the 
box are now unsuppressed).
EXAMPLE: UNITA is defending and has a Column. FAPLA 
secretly commits five airgroups, while UNITA commits two.
The FAPLA player has more choice for his airgroups. He 
could suppress any two, then eliminate one unsuppressed. 
Or he could convert the two suppressions into a hit and 
eliminate two. He is worried about anti-aircraft fire on his 
ground support missions, so he decides to apply one hit to 
eliminate an airgroup flying air superiority, and he converts 
the two suppressions to a hit and eliminates the other air-
group flying air superiority. His remaining three airgroups 
(all assigned to ground support) remain in the air.
9.7	 Air Strikes
Anti-aircraft fire and air strikes are resolved during 
Step 5 of the Combat Procedure.
After air-to-air combat has been resolved, air 
strikes are resolved if there are any airgroups left 
that are committed to ground support missions. 
If a player has anti-aircraft missiles in the Combat Region, he 
may now fire them against Enemy airgroups conducting air 
strikes. Missile fire is optional and there is no limit to the num-
ber of missiles that may be fired. Announce how many missiles 
are firing, then roll two dice for each missile. Use the Hit Table 
to resolve the fire (9.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.3). Anti-aircraft missiles are 
expended when fired; after firing return them to the Equipment 
Pool.
Apply results against airgroups conducting air strikes. If a Fac-
tion has any unsuppressed airgroups that survived missile fire, a 
maximum of two of those airgroups may now fire at the Enemy 
using the Hit Table (9.3.1). Dice equal to the number of pips on 
the selected airgroup counters are rolled. All Enemy Forces in 
the Combat Region are eligible for losses from air strikes.
After the anti-aircraft fire and air strikes are resolved, sup-
pressed airgroups become unsuppressed and all surviving air-
groups that participated in the combat are placed in the Air Mis-
sion Completed Box.
9.8	 Artillery
Artillery is fired during Step 6 of the Combat Procedure.
Players may each fire a maximum of one artillery Unit in the 
Combat Region at the Enemy; artillery fire is always optional. 
The Attacker always fires first; results are not simultaneous.
Both UNITA airgroups must fly air superiority missions. The 
FAPLA player commits two airgroups to air superiority and 
three to ground support. Note that FAPLA had to commit at 
least two airgroups to air superiority, and could have com-
mitted three, four or five at the player’s option. 
In air-to-air combat, UNITA rolls four dice (two for each 
airgroup) for a ‘1, 4, 5, 6’ result (i.e., one miss, two suppres-
sions and one hit), while FAPLA also rolls four dice (two for 
each airgroup) and rolls ‘1, 2, 5, 5’ (i.e., two suppressions 
and two misses).
UNITA can either suppress both his airgroups or eliminate 
one (i.e., by converting two suppressions to one hit). He 
chooses the former, as there is no point in eliminating an 
airgroup which will have no further effect on the combat.

An artillery Unit fires a number of dice equal to the number of 
pips on its counter, and artillery fire is resolved on the Hit Table 
(9.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.3).
Artillery Units are automatically suppressed after they fire. Ar-
tillery Units have no combat strength.
9.9 Mines and Minefields 
9.9.1	 General Rules
A mine counter is Equipment that a player can is-
sue to his Forces. A mine moves around with its 
assigned Force just like any other piece of Equip-
ment. Mine counters have no effect on combat.
On the flip side of a mine counter is a minefield. The minefield 
does not exist until the mine is converted by flipping the coun-
ter from mine to minefield. A player can convert a mine at any 
time except during the play of an Enemy’s Operations Card. A 
minefield cannot move and cannot be converted back to a mine. 
There may never be more than one Friendly minefield per re-
gion (there is no such limit for mine counters). 
A minefield is revealed when converted. However, it can be 
kept secret if it is stacked with a Column.
¶ Minefields are not single use items and remain in place as 
long as there is at least one Unit in the region from the Faction 
(or Alliance) that originally deployed the minefield. A minefield 
is returned to the Equipment pool if left alone in a region, or if 
all Units of the side that deployed the minefield are eliminated 
or forced to retreat as a result of combat. Exception: a minefield 
remains on the map long enough to trigger anti-armor die rolls 
(9.9.2) following an Automatic Victory (9.4), and also in cases 
when all Defending Units are eliminated prior to Step 9 of the 
Combat Procedure (9.11).
¶ If two friendly Factions occupy an area and all the units of the 
Faction that placed a minefield leave the area for any reason, the 
remaining Faction of the Alliance may still use the minefield.
9.9.2 Minefields in Combat
Minefields are used during Step 7 of the Combat 
Procedure.
At the beginning of Step 7 the Defender announc-
es whether he has a minefield in the Combat Re-
gion. If the Attacker has one or more engineer Units (17.3), one 
engineer Unit removes the minefield and is suppressed. If the 
Attacker has no engineer Units, the minefield remains and the 
Attacker must now roll for any armored Units (17.2) he has 
in the combat. The Attacker rolls one die for each attacking 
armored Unit. The rolls are made at once. Rolls of 2-6 have 
no effect. Each roll of 1 eliminates an armored Unit of the At-
tacker’s choice. Note that this roll must be made even following 
an Automatic Victory. 
A Defending Force receives one extra combat die if it has a 
minefield during combat resolution (9.11).
9.10	 Anti-Tank Missiles
Anti-tank missiles are fired during Step 8 of the Combat Pro-
Missile fire is optional and there is no limit to the number of 
missiles that may be fired. The Attacker always fires first; re-
sults are not simultaneous.
Anti-tank missiles can only be fired against ar-
mored Units (17.2) in the same Combat Region. 
Announce how many missiles are firing, then roll 
two dice for each missile. Use the Hit Table to re-
solve the fire (9.3.1, 9.3.2, 9.3.3), applying the re-
sults to armored units. If the Force fired on contains at least one 
tank Unit, it ignores one suppression result. Anti-tank missiles 
are expended when fired; return them to the Equipment Pool. 
9.11	 Combat Resolution
Combat is resolved in Step 9 of the Combat Procedure.
If, after Step 8 of the Combat Procedure, one side has no Units 
left, proceed directly to Steps 10 and 11.
These are the substeps, for which a full description follows:
Step 9A Calculate combat odds (9.11.1)
Step 9B Calculate the Net Combat Dice Bonus (9.11.2)
Step 9C Roll the Combat Dice to obtain the dice scores and 
the difference (9.11.3)
Step 9D Use the difference to consult the Adjustment Table 
to obtain any combat odds shift (9.11.4)
Step 9E Use the Final Combat Odds and consult the Result 
Table to determine the combat result (9.11.5) 
Step 9F Apply the combat result (9.11.6, 9.11.7, 9.11.8)
PLAY NOTE: the role of engineer Units is tricky, and play-
ers should refer to section 17.3 if there are any engineer 
Units in the combat. 
9.11.1	Combat Odds
Combat odds are calculated in Step 9A of the Combat Proce-
dure.
The combat odds are an odds comparison of the total combat 
strength of the Attacker’s Force to the total combat strength of 
the Defender’s Force. Round the odds down in favor of the De-
fender to yield a simple ratio (e.g., 1-2, 1-1, 2-1 and so on). 
Odds of better than 6-1 are treated as 6-1; odds of worse than 
1-4 are treated as 1-4.
Remember that some Units do not have a combat strength. One 
or more Minor Unit armored cars defending by themselves are 
considered to have a combat strength of one each (17.2.2). An 
engineer Unit acting as infantry has a strength of one (17.3).
EXAMPLE: Eight attacking combat strength points against 
three defending combat strength points yields a ratio of 
2.67-1, or 2-1 rounded in favor of the Defender.
9.11.2	Net Combat Dice Bonus
The Net Combat Dice Bonus is calculated in Step 9B of the 
Combat Procedure.
Each player first adds up his Combat Dice Points. Combat Dice 
Points are awarded for Units and Supporting Regions (Attacker 
only). 
The Attacker receives one Combat Dice Point for each Support-
ing Region (9.1).
Each player receives a number of Combat Dice Points equal to 
the total Combat Dice Points provided by his Units in the Com-
bat Region. One or more Minor Unit armored cars defending 
by themselves are considered to have a combat strength of one 
each and contribute no Combat Dice Points.

The player with the highest total of Combat Dice Points receives 
a Net Combat Dice Bonus equal to the sum of his Combat Dice 
Points minus the sum of his Opponent’s Combat Dice Points. 
The Net Combat Dice Bonus may not be greater than 5. 
The Net Combat Dice Bonus will be added to that Player’s 
highest Combat Dice roll (9.11.3). 
9.11.3	Combat Dice
The Combat Dice are thrown in Step 9C of the Combat Proce-
dure.
Both sides first calculate the number of Combat Dice they are 
entitled to throw.
The terrain of the Combat Region determines how many Com-
bat Dice are thrown by the Attacker and Defender.
Region
Attacker Rolls
Defender Rolls
Clear
Savannah
Hills or Jungle
In addition, the Defender rolls an additional die for each of the 
following situations that applies:
One die if he is defending in a town or city and the Attacker 
has no assault engineers (17.3); or
One die if he is defending the up (not down) side of an es-
carpment from the Attacker’s Region (see the map key); or
One die if he is defending a minefield.
The number of Combat Dice is cumulative. For example, it 
is possible for the Defender to throw as many as five Combat 
Dice.
Both players now roll their Combat Dice. The highest single 
die roll is that side’s Dice Score. If one of the players had a 
Net Combat Dice Bonus, he now adds that number to his Dice 
Score.
Subtract the Defender’s Dice Score from the Attacker’s Dice 
Score to obtain the Difference. 
EXAMPLE: If the Attacker’s Dice Score is 2 and the De-
fender’s Dice Score is 4, the Difference is -2 (2 – 4 = -2).
9.11.4	Adjustment Table
The Difference obtained in Step 9C of the Combat Procedure 
is used on the Adjustment Table in Step 9D of the Combat Pro-
Cross check the Difference on the Adjustment Table to arrive at 
the final adjustment to the Combat Odds calculated in Step 9A. 
These are the Final Combat Odds.
Adjustment Table 
The Difference Adjustment to odds is:
+6 or better up three levels
+5, +4 up two levels
+3, +2 up one level
+1, +0, -1 no adjustment
-2, -3 down one level
-4, -5 down two levels
-6 or worse down three levels
NOTE: Moving the odds up benefits the Attacker, e.g., up 
three levels will change odds of 2-1 to odds of 5-1. Moving 
the odds down benefits the Defender, e.g., down two levels 
will change odds of 1-1 to 1-3.
9.11.5	Result Table
The Final Combat Odds are used on the Result Table to deter-
mine the combat result in Step 9E of the Combat Procedure. 
Final 
Odds
(9.11.6, 9.11.7, 9.11.8)
6-1
Defending Force Eliminated
5-1
2/3rds of the Defending Force is Eliminated; 
4-1
1/2 of the Defending Force is Eliminated; 
3-1
1/3rd of the Defending Force is Eliminated; 
2-1
Defending Force must Retreat
1-1
Combat Continues
1-2
Attacking Force must Retreat
1/3rd of the Attacking Force is Eliminated; 
Remaining Attacking Force must Retreat
1-4
1/2 of the Attacking Force is Eliminated; 
Remaining Attacking Force must Retreat
9.11.6	Combat Losses
Any combat losses are applied in Step 9F of the Combat Pro-
Eliminated Units are removed from the map. Consult the Loss 
Table to resolve combat losses that include fractions:
# of Units in 
For 1/3 
For 1/2 
For 2/3 
Major Units that are eliminated are permanently removed from 
play (Exception: 12.2); all other eliminated Units and Equip-
ment are taken off the map but can return to play through direct 
foreign aid, covert foreign aid and recruitment.
9.11.7	Retreat From Combat
Any retreats are applied in Step 9F of the Combat Procedure 
after combat losses have been applied.
An Attacking Force that retreats must retreat to the Attacker’s 
Region (defined in 9.1).
The Defending player chooses where to retreat his Force (or 
Forces) within the following restrictions:

Example of Combat
MPLA Column B begins its move in Lucala and moves north 
along the road to attack FNLA Column C in Camabatela.
Step 1: Since the initial odds are 1-1 (five MPLA strength points 
against three FNLA strength points, rounded off in favor 
of the Defender) there is no Automatic Victory. Neither 
player reveals the composition of his Force, just the combat 
strength.
Step 2: Neither side allocates any airgroups.
Step 3: Both sides now reveal all of their Units in the combat.
Steps 4-8: Neither side has any airgroups, missiles, artillery or 
minefields.
Step 9A: As noted above, the odds are 5-3, rounded to 1-1.
Step 9B: MPLA has a Combat Dice Bonus of +2 (+1 for the 
Supporting Region and +1 for the armored car), FNLA re-
ceives a Combat Dice Bonus of +3 (+1 for each of the three 
armored cars). The FNLA has a Net Combat Dice Bonus 
of +1.
Step 9C: The MPLA rolls one Combat Dice because its Column 
is attacking into a jungle, and the FNLA rolls four Combat 
Dice (two for defending a jungle, plus one for defending 
a Town, plus one for defending against an attack up the 
escarpment). 
Both sides roll. The MPLA rolls a 1, while the FNLA rolls 1, 
3, 4, and 4. FNLA takes the highest roll (4) and adds its Net 
Combat Dice Bonus to reach a total of 5.
The Difference is -4 (the Attacker’s 1 minus the Defender’s 
5).
Step 9D: The Difference of -4 on the Adjustment Table provides 
a result of “Down 2 Levels”, so the initial 1-1 odds are now 
1-3.
Step 9E: The result of a 1-3 combat on the results Table is “1/
3rd of the Attacking Force is Eliminated; Remaining Attack-
ing Force Must Retreat”
Step 9F: MPLA Column B removes two of its six Units (from 
the Loss Table (9.11.6)) and retreats back into the Attacker’s 
Region.
Step 10: There are four Units left in Column B. The MPLA 
player must now choose one Unit to remove from Column B 
and place in the same Region as a straggler.
Step 11: There are no Control Markers or Victory Tokens to 
transfer as a result of this combat.
(a) The retreat must be to a region adjacent to the Combat Re-
gion.
(b) The retreat may not be to the Attacker’s Region, to a region 
that contains an Enemy Force or an Enemy-controlled town 
or city.
(c) All retreating Forces retreat to the same region.
(d) The retreat may not be to a region next to the Attacker’s 
Region unless no other region is available. 
(e) If the retreat is to a region next to the Attacker’s Region, 
then 1/2 of the Defending Force is eliminated following the 
retreat (the Loss Table (9.11.6) applies).
(f) All units of the Attacker’s faction that are not in the Combat 
Region (i.e. are not in the combat) exert a Retreat Zone into 
all empty regions adjacent to them. If the Defender retreats 
into a region that is in a retreat zone, then 1/2 of the retreat-
ing Force is eliminated (the Loss Table (9.11.6) applies).
(g) ¶ Tank Units and Major Units that are also artillery are de-
stroyed if forced to retreat into savannah, jungle or hills 
(however, retreats are permitted along roads). The FAPLA 
rocket battery is considered a Major Unit that is artillery.
(h) A Defending Force that cannot retreat is eliminated.
PLAY NOTE: Losses incurred because of a retreat are sepa-
rate from and in addition to losses incurred in combat. The 
sequence is: a) apply combat losses; b) conduct any retreat; 
c) apply any losses resulting from the retreat.
PLAY NOTE: It is possible for a retreating Force to have 
the 1/2 eliminated penalty applied twice: once for clause (e) 
and once for clause (f). Apply one set of losses first and then 
apply 1/2 losses again.
PLAY NOTE: The “empty region” condition of clause (f) 
means that the loss does not apply if the retreat is to a re-
gion that contains a Friendly Force.
9.11.8	Continuing Combat
The continuing combat process, if triggered, is determined in 
Step 9F of the Combat Procedure.
If the Result Table yields a result of Combat Continues, the At-
tacker can choose:
a) to end the combat by retreating to the Attacker’s Region, 
or
b) to fight on by eliminating any one of his unsuppressed 
Units.
If the Attacker chooses to lose a Unit and fight on, the Defender 
can choose to end the combat by retreating (9.11.7), or the 
Defender can choose to fight on by eliminating any one of his 
unsuppressed Units.
If both players choose to fight on, begin the Combat Procedure 
all over.
9.12	 Straggling
Straggling is resolved in Step 10 of the Combat Procedure.
There is no straggling following an Automatic Victory (9.4)
After combat has been finally resolved, any losses applied and 
any retreats finished, the Attacking Column must detach one 
Unit of the owning player’s choice due to straggling. The strag-
gling Unit is simply taken from the Column and placed by itself 

in the same region as the Column. If the Attacking Column has 
eight or more Units, it loses two Units to straggling.
If a Column has only one Unit left before straggling, simply 
remove the Column marker.
A Unit that straggles may not move again the same turn.
9.13	 Towns and Cities in Combat
If the Attacker’s Force ended the combat in a region containing 
an Enemy-controlled town or city, then the Enemy must sur-
render the corresponding Control Marker to the Attacker during 
Step 11 of the Combat Procedure. The Attacker places the Con-
trol Marker face down amongst his Control Markers (10.3).
In addition, if a town was won, the Enemy player must also 
hand over one of his Victory Tokens to the town’s new owner; 
if a city other than Luanda was won, two Victory Tokens are 
surrendered; and if Luanda was won, the prize is three Victory 
Tokens. 
See 10 for more details on towns and cities.
10	 Towns and Cities
10.1	 Initial Deployment of Control Markers
Each of the 23 towns and cities other than Cabinda has its own 
Control Marker. During Step 5 of the game setup (3) the play-
ers randomly and secretly draw 18 of the 23 Control Markers 
(four each for FAPLA and UNITA, and five each for MPLA and 
FNLA). The remaining five Control Markers are placed on the 
map in their corresponding regions; these towns and cities be-
gin the game uncontrolled. After set-up is complete and before 
play starts, the players place their Control Markers face up in 
front of them for all to see which players control which towns 
and cities. 
The difference between face up and face down Control Markers 
is important and explained in 10.5, 12.1, 12.3 and 12.4.
10.4	 Winning Victory Tokens
When a player captures a town from the Enemy, the Enemy 
player must hand over one of his Victory Tokens (if he has any 
remaining) to the town’s new owner. 
When a player captures a city other than Luanda from the En-
emy, the Enemy player must hand over two of his Victory To-
kens to the city’s new owner. 
When a player captures Luanda from the Enemy, the Enemy 
player must hand over three Victory Tokens to Luanda’s new 
owner.
¶ A player never hands over Enemy Victory Tokens in his pos-
session, only those of his own Faction. Once a Victory Token is 
captured by a player, it stays with that player until the Clean Up 
Step of the End Phase.
10.5	 Towns and Cities as Assets
A player who controls a face up Control Marker may use its 
associated town or city for deployment of direct foreign aid 
(12.1), for recruitment (12.3), and for deployment of covert 
foreign aid (12.4). Ports (2.3.4) have an anchor symbol on their 
face up side to show they function as a port.
Face down Control Markers provide their owner with no bene-
fits other than the satisfaction of denying benefits to the Enemy. 
Face down ports cannot be used as ports.
11	 How to Win the Game
11.1	 Victory Overview
Only an Alliance can win the game. A Faction cannot win the 
game.
As explained below, victory in the game is possible at the end of 
any turn (a “decisive victory”) (11.5), or, if no decisive victory 
has happened, then victory is determined at the end of the game 
(an “end game victory”) (11.6). Both types of victory depend 
on where an Alliance’s Victory Track Marker is on the Victory 
Track (11.3).
Victory is determined during Step A of the End Phase. From 
turns one through nine, players check for a decisive victory. On 
turn ten, players determine an end of game victory. 
10.2	 Uncontrolled Towns and Cities
A player takes control of one of the five uncontrolled towns or 
cities (i.e., a town or city whose Control Marker is on the map) 
when one of his Forces ends its movement or retreat in the re-
gion with the town or city (just moving through is not enough). 
The player now takes the Control Marker from the map and 
places it face up amongst his own Control Markers. 
10.3	 Capturing Towns and Cities
A player captures an Enemy-controlled town or city (and gains 
control of its associated Control Marker) whenever his Force 
ends its move (and survives any resulting combat) in the region 
with the town or city. 
When this happens, the owning player must surrender the 
Control Marker to its new owner, who now places it face down 
amongst his own Control Markers. Once a Control Marker is 
turned face down, it stays face down for the rest of the turn, no 
matter how many more times it changes hands or to whom it is 
surrendered. In the Clean Up step of the turn all Control Mark-
ers are turned face up (4.2 (3F)).
11.2	 Victory Tokens
Each Faction has five color-coded Victory Tokens. Whenever 
a Faction is forced to hand over a Control Marker to an En-
emy, he must also hand over one or more Victory Tokens (9.13, 
10.4). If he has insufficient Tokens, just hand over as many as 
he has remaining in his possession. 
Victory Tokens are used during the End Phase of each turn to 
determine whether an Alliance has won that turn (11.4).
All Victory Tokens are returned to their owning Factions during 
the Clean Up step (F) of the End Phase.
Face up
Face down

11.3	 Victory Track
The Victory Track on the map has ten spaces, 
numbered from 10 to 20. At the beginning of the 
game, both Alliances place their Victory Track 
Markers on the “20” space of the Victory Track.
The Victory Track Marker is moved down the 
Victory Track when:
• an Alliance wins a turn (11.4);
• an Alliance wins a propaganda victory (12.4.3); or
• the FNLA captures Cabinda (14.3.2).
11.4	 Winning a Turn
During Step A of the End Phase, each Faction adds up the 
number of Victory Tokens it controls (i.e., both its own and 
those won from Enemy Factions during the turn), and adds that 
number to his Ally’s number. The Alliance with the most total 
Victory Tokens wins that turn. In case of a tie, neither Alliance 
wins the turn. An Alliance that wins a turn must move its Vic-
tory Track Marker down the Victory Track as follows:
Number of Victory Tokens 
Controlled by that Alliance
Victory Track Marker 
movement
10 or fewer
no movement
11 or 12 
down one space
13 or 14 
down two spaces
15 or more
down three spaces
Move from the 20 space toward the 10 space. Once on the 10 
space, a Victory Track Marker no longer moves.
11.5	 Decisive Victory
An Alliance wins a decisive victory if, during Step A(i) of the 
End Phase, it controls a number of Victory Tokens equal to or 
greater than the number on the Victory Track where the Alli-
ance’s Victory Track Marker sits.
11.6	 End of Game Victory
If there is no decisive victory, an Alliance wins an end of game 
victory if, during Step A(i) of the End Phase of turn 10, its Vic-
tory Track Marker is closer to the 10 space on the Victory Track 
than the other Alliance’s Victory Track Marker. Ties are pos-
sible.
12	 New Troops
New troops are acquired by:
• direct foreign aid (12.1);
• recruitment (12.3); and 
• covert foreign aid (12.4).
12.1	 Direct Foreign Aid
PLAY NOTE: Direct foreign aid represents the deployment 
of Zairois, South African and Cuban troops in Angola.
12.1.1	Receipt of Direct Foreign Aid
Direct foreign aid is determined in Step C of the End Phase. If 
an Alliance has lost that turn (11.4), each Faction in that Alli-
ance checks the number of Victory Tokens it controls against 
the Direct Foreign Aid Table to see what aid it receives. Note 
that the number of Victory Tokens counted are those controlled 
by each Faction, not the total controlled by the Alliance.
Direct Foreign Aid Table
Controlled by 
a Faction
Direct Foreign Aid Received
6 or more
No Direct Foreign Aid
One Minor Unit
One Major Unit
One Major Unit, one Minor Unit
Two Major Units
Two Major Units, one Minor Unit
Three Major Units
A Minor Unit can be an:
• airgroup
• engineer
Choose it from the Minor Units belonging to that Faction that 
are currently not in play.
A Major Unit is one of the four Major Units available to each 
Faction (2.4.1). The Major Units are colored a different shade 
from the Faction’s other Units and bear the name of the foreign 
power and the name of the Faction. 
When the Direct Foreign Aid Table calls for a Faction to re-
ceive one or more Major Units, the Faction player draws them 
secretly and randomly from his pool. The player must make the 
draw—he cannot refuse the direct foreign aid. If there are not 
enough Major Units in the pool to satisfy the draw (because 
they are already in play or were eliminated in combat), then the 
player must roll on the Crisis Table once for each Major Unit he 
was unable to draw (12.2).
12.1.2	Deployment of Direct Foreign Aid
Units received through direct foreign aid are deployed immedi-
ately and simultaneously as follows:
All FNLA direct foreign aid must be deployed in Zaire.
All UNITA direct foreign aid must be deployed in South-
West Africa.
If Luanda is controlled by either FAPLA or MPLA, and the 
Luanda Control Marker is face up, then all direct foreign aid 
for both FAPLA and MPLA must be deployed in Luanda.
If neither FAPLA nor MPLA controls Luanda, or if the 
Luanda Control Marker is face down, then FAPLA and the 
MPLA receive direct foreign aid at any port for which that 
Faction has a face up Control Marker (only one Unit per 
port; if there is no available port, the direct foreign aid is not 
received this turn).
¶ Provided it obeys the rules above, direct foreign aid units can 
be deployed directly into existing columns.
• armored car
• artillery battery

12.2	 Crisis Table
Foreign Patron Says
Effects
Confidence is high
Receive one Major Unit. You may even choose one eliminated Major Unit!1 
(If no Major Units are available, treat as having no effect.)
6-7
We are content to maintain 
our current policy
No effect.
We are concerned
Withdraw one of your Major Units.2
Perhaps you require more 
guidance
Withdraw one of your Major Units.2 
Receive one fewer Reinforcement Card with each bid (12.4).3 
None of your Major Units may enter an Enemy-occupied region from this point on.4
We are alarmed
Withdraw two of your Major Units.2
Receive two fewer Reinforcement Cards with each bid (12.4).3
None of your Major Units may move from this point on.4
Our confidence is shattered
Withdraw all of your Major Units.2
¶ You receive no more direct foreign aid or covert foreign aid (12.4).3
A Faction makes a separate roll on the Crisis Table for each Ma-
jor Unit it was unable to draw as directed by the Direct Foreign 
Aid Table (12.1.1).
Each Faction receives a one-time +2 die roll modifier the first 
time it rolls on the Crisis Table.
¶ All results on the Crisis Table apply for the rest of the game, 
not just the turn they are rolled.
Explanation of Crisis Table Effects:
If multiple results are obtained, apply each separately.
1 Eliminated Major Units. This is an exception to the 
general rule that eliminated Major Units are permanently 
removed from the game.
2 Withdraw Major Units. The owner chooses which 
Major Units to withdraw. If no Major Unit is available for 
withdrawal, then the player must withdraw any two non-
infantry Units (i.e., tanks, armored cars, artillery, engineers, 
airgroups). Withdrawn Units are available for later use.
3 Reduce Reinforcement Cards. Reduce Reinforcement 
Cards drawn by the appropriate number. If confidence is 
shattered, no more cards can be drawn.
EXAMPLE: If FAPLA’s Reinforcement Cards have been 
reduced by two, a FAPLA bid of ‘5’ will produce only three 
cards (12.4). A bid of ‘1’ will produce no cards at all.
4 Move Restrictions. Movement restrictions on Major 
Units do affect airgroups; they may now only fly missions 
to support Defending Units.
12.3	 Recruitment
PLAY NOTE: Recruitment represents local efforts to raise 
African troops. 
Troops are recruited during Step D of the End Phase. 
The turn’s first player recruits and deploys his Units first and 
the players recruit and deploy clockwise after that. There are 
two forms of recruitment: set recruitment (12.3.1) and variable 
recruitment (12.3.2). A Faction performs set then variable re-
cruitment before passing to the next player. 
12.3.1	Set Recruitment
Each turn, the Factions recruit as follows::
• FNLA can recruit four infantry Units in Zaire. Until Cab-
inda falls, at least two of these Units must be placed in the 
FLEC Base. After Cabinda falls, all four infantry Units are 
to be placed in Zaire.
• FNLA can recruit two infantry Units in Luanda if it controls 
Luanda and the Luanda Control Marker is face up.
• UNITA can recruit four infantry Units in South-West Af-
rica.
• UNITA can recruit two infantry Units in Luanda if it con-
trols Luanda and the Luanda Control Marker is face up.
• MPLA can recruit Units in one of the following ways if it 
controls Luanda (i.e. the Control Marker is face up):
1. Two infantry Units in Luanda and one infantry Unit in 
Cabinda, but only if Cabinda is MPLA controlled; or 
2. Three infantry Units in Luanda; or
3. Two infantry Units in Cabinda, but only if Cabinda is 
MPLA controlled.
• MPLA can recruit one infantry Unit in Cabinda, but only 
if it controls Cabinda, and Luanda is not controlled by the 
MPLA/FAPLA Alliance.
• FAPLA can recruit Units in one of the following ways if it 
controls Luanda (i.e. the Control Marker is face up):

1. Two infantry Units in Luanda and one MPLA infantry 
Unit in Cabinda, but only if Cabinda is MPLA controlled; 
or 
2. Three infantry Units in Luanda; or
3. Two MPLA infantry Units in Cabinda, but only if Cab-
inda is MPLA controlled.
PLAY NOTE: If FAPLA controls Luanda, he can decide 
whether to recruit for his MPLA ally in Cabinda.
After Cabinda falls to FNLA, no Units may ever be recruited 
there again. In addition, MPLA may not deploy covert foreign 
aid (12.4) there again.
Newly recruited Units may be deployed directly to a Column. 
12.3.2	Variable Recruitment
Each Faction may recruit a number of infantry Units equal to 
its face up city Control Markers (except Luanda), plus half the 
number of its face up town Control Markers (rounded down).
EXAMPLE: If a Faction controlled two cities and five towns, 
it would recruit four infantry Units (2 + 2.5 = 4.5 = 4).
Once recruited, infantry Units are placed by the controlling 
Faction. A maximum of one Unit may be placed in any town 
or city where the recruiting Faction possesses a face up Control 
Marker. Newly deployed troops may be deployed directly to a 
Column.
Units recruited by this method cannot be placed in Luanda or 
Cabinda. 
12.4	 Covert Foreign Aid
PLAY NOTE: Covert foreign aid represents the advisors, 
mercenaries and Equipment secretly provided to the com-
batants by their patrons. Bidding for Reinforcement Cards 
provides the mechanic.
Covert foreign aid can be Units or Equipment.
12.4.1	Bidding for Covert Foreign Aid
In Step E of the End Turn Phase, each Faction secretly bids for a 
number of Reinforcement Cards from 0 to 5. (Use slips of paper 
or dice to record secret bids.)
The bids are revealed beginning with the turn’s first player and 
continuing clockwise. After revealing his bid, each player then 
draws that number of cards from the Reinforcement Card deck, 
and openly receives the bounty of each card. After all are done, 
reshuffle the deck.
PLAY NOTE: Don’t forget that the number of Reinforcement 
Cards may be affected by the Crisis Table (12.2).
EXAMPLE: At the end of Turn 1 players use dice to reveal 
their bids as follows:
12.4.2	Deployment of Covert Foreign Aid
Beginning with the turn’s first player and proceeding clock-
wise, the players deploy their covert foreign aid as follows:
• FNLA may deploy any amount of covert foreign aid to Za-
ire or the FLEC Base;
• UNITA may deploy any amount of covert foreign aid to 
South-West Africa;
• FAPLA and MPLA may deploy any amount of covert 
foreign aid to Luanda. But only if Luanda is controlled by 
either FAPLA or MPLA and its Control Marker is face up.
¶ Provided it obeys the rules above, covert foreign aid units can 
be deployed directly into existing columns.
In addition, any Faction can deploy any covert foreign aid that 
is Equipment as follows:
(1) One piece of Equipment per region that is occupied by that 
Faction’s Units; or
(2) Two pieces of Equipment per town or city region that is oc-
cupied by that Faction’s Units, for which they have a face 
up Control Marker.
(3) In addition to case (2), if the face up town or city is a port, 
FAPLA or MPLA may deploy any covert foreign aid that is 
a Unit to that port (limit one Unit per port).
EXAMPLE: MPLA controls Benguela. It deploys two AA 
missiles per case (2) and then one tank Unit per case (3).
PLAY NOTE: As Cabinda does not have a Control Marker 
and is not a port, cases (2) and (3) cannot apply.
12.4.3	Propaganda Victory
If one Faction bid for more reinforcement cards than the 
other Factions, that Faction has given the Enemy Alliance a 
propaganda victory. Move the Enemy Alliance’s Victory Track 
Marker one place down the Victory Track toward 10. 
A tie for highest bid between Enemy Factions results in no 
propaganda victory for either Alliance.
A tie for highest bid between Allied Factions results in a propa-
ganda victory for the Enemy Alliance.
13	 Infantry Brigades
If three infantry Units occupy the same region during Step B 
of the End Phase, the owner may replace them with an infantry 
brigade. Infantry brigades count as one Unit for all purposes 
and may never be changed back into their component Units.
Each Faction draws that number of cards (2 for FAPLA, 5 
for the FNLA, and so on). In addition, the FNLA bid of 5 
cards is higher than any other bid. This gives its opponents 
a propaganda victory (12.4.3). The FAPLA/MPLA Victory 
Marker is moved one space down the Victory Track.
EXAMPLE: It is the end of 
Turn 2 and FAPLA draws this 
reinforcement card. FAPLA 
receives 1 armored car Unit.
If it had been Turn 3 or later, 
FAPLA would have received 2 
armored car Units. 
After placing the armored car 
Unit on the map, the card is 
put back in the deck, which is 
reshuffled.

14	 Special Areas
14.1	 Zaire
Zaire consists of the FLEC Base and Zaire Proper. 
No FAPLA or MPLA Force may ever enter Zaire.
14.1.1	Zaire Proper
UNITA and FNLA Forces can move into Zaire Proper from one 
of the four regions to the South. Once Cabinda is captured Forc-
es can also enter from the jungle region adjacent to the FLEC 
Base (14.1.2). When a Force moves into Zaire Proper from one 
of these regions, it stops its movement for that Operation. 
Zaire Proper is divided by a dashed line into two areas. Forces 
must be in one of the two areas. When moving in or out of an 
area, move only to or from regions adjacent to that area. 
A Force beginning its move in an area of Zaire Proper may 
move to an adjacent region (it may use road movement if it 
moves along a connecting road). It treats the adjacent area as 
clear terrain and can continue moving after entering the area.
FNLA Forces (only) in the area adjacent to the FLEC Base may 
move to the FLEC Base (14.1.2).
Areas of Zaire Proper can be Supporting Regions and Units in 
areas can exert Retreat Zones into the adjacent regions.
14.1.2	FLEC Base
An FNLA Force may move into the FLEC Base, but only from 
the adjacent area of Zaire Proper. After entering the Base it 
stops its movement for that Operation.
An FNLA Force may never move from the FLEC Base to Zaire 
Proper. It may only move from the FLEC Base into the adjacent 
jungle region.
After the FNLA captures Cabinda (14.3.2), the FLEC Base has 
no further effect on the game. For purposes of movement in Za-
ire, treat it as if it did not exist. However, the road from Cabinda 
does not connect with Zaire, so Forces leaving the jungle for 
Zaire are subject to the jungle movement rules (7). 
14.2	 South-West Africa
No FAPLA or MPLA Force may ever enter South-West Africa.
UNITA and FNLA Forces can move into South-West Africa 
from one of the four regions to the North. When a Force moves 
into South-West Africa from one of these regions, it stops its 
movement for that Operation.
Forces may leave South-West Africa along the connecting road.
South-West Africa can be a Supporting Region and Units there 
can exert Retreat Zones into the adjacent regions.
14.3	 Cabinda
Cabinda is not a port and does not have a Control Marker. 
Therefore it cannot receive direct foreign aid (12.1.2) and is 
restricted in which covert foreign aid it receives (12.4.2).
Furthermore, it cannot receive Units via variable recruitment 
(12.3.2).
14.3.1	Cabinda’s Defense
MPLA Forces defending Cabinda convert a retreat result (in-
cluding one taken voluntarily as a result of a “combat contin-
ues” result) into a “1/2 of the Defending Force is Eliminated” 
result. This result is taken after any other combat loss has been 
resolved. If, after any combat, MPLA Forces are still in Cab-
inda, the Attacking Force must retreat.
14.3.2	Cabinda’s Capture
Once Cabinda is captured by the UNITA/FNLA Alliance:
(1) No Victory Token is exchanged. Instead, immediately move 
the UNITA/FNLA Victory Track Marker one space down 
the Victory Track towards 10 (note, there is no Control 
Marker for Cabinda).
(2) The FLEC Base has no further effect on the game. For pur-
poses of movement into and out of Zaire, treat it as if it did 
not exist. Any FNLA Units in the FLEC Base are moved 
into the closest part of Zaire Proper. See also 14.1.2. 
(3) The FNLA’s four recruited infantry Units may all now be 
placed in Zaire.
15	 Alliance Rules
Allies may discuss anything they wish, but must do so in public. 
Secret communications are not allowed. 
Allied Forces:
• May move through and occupy the same regions 
• Must defend the same region
• Block Enemy retreats on behalf of their ally
However, a Faction NEVER:
• Provides a Supporting Region for its ally (9.1).
16	 Counter Limitations
¶ The counter mix provided is the absolute maximum; no new 
counters can be made (not even to represent pieces of Equip-
ment).
The number of Column markers is also a limit on the number of 
Columns each Faction may have in play.
17	 Unit and Equipment 
Descriptions
PLAY NOTE: Most of this section consolidates and repeats 
rules that are scattered elsewhere. It is included more as 
a ready reference and can be skimmed initially, except for 
17.3 Engineers, which should be read in full.
17.1	 Artillery Units
Artillery is fired during Step 6 of the Combat Pro-
Players may each fire a maximum of one artillery 
Unit in a combat. The Attacker always fires first; 
results are not simultaneous.
An artillery Unit fires a number of dice equal to the number of 
pips on its counter, and artillery fire is resolved on the Hit Table 
(9.3.1).
Artillery Units are automatically suppressed after they fire.
Artillery Units are Units, but they have no combat strength.
Artillery Units may never enter an Enemy-occupied region un-
less accompanied by non-artillery Units.

¶ A Major Unit that is also artillery may not move through sa-
vannah, jungle or hills unless along a road. It is eliminated if 
forced to retreat through this terrain and is not retreating along a 
road. Note that the FAPLA rocket battery is considered a Major 
Unit that is artillery.
17.2	 Armored Units
Armored Units are tanks and armored cars.
17.2.1	Tanks
Tanks have a combat strength and provide Combat 
Dice Points.
¶ Tank Units may only move through clear terrain 
or along roads. Should a tank Unit be forced to 
move or retreat through savannah, jungle or hills, it is destroyed 
unless it is moving/retreating along a road.
If a Force being fired on by Anti-Tank missiles contains at least 
one tank Unit, the Force ignores one suppression result.
17.2.2	Armored Cars
Minor Unit armored cars have no combat strength; 
instead, they provide Combat Dice Points only. 
Major Unit armored cars have a combat strength 
and also provide Combat Dice Points.
A Minor Unit armored car defending by itself is considered to 
have a combat strength of one and does not use its Combat Dice 
Points.
17.3	 Engineers
An engineer Unit can perform one of three roles in a combat: 
(i) 
Minefield removal 
(ii) 
Assault engineers
(iii) 
Normal combat 
When assigning engineer Units to roles, they must be assigned 
in precedence order from (i) to (iii). The only exception to this 
is if the only attacking Unit or Units are engineers (17.3.3).
If a minefield is present, one engineer Unit must be assigned 
to minefield removal before any can be assigned to assault or 
normal combat.
If a town or city is present, one engineer Unit must be assigned 
as assault engineers before any can be used for normal combat.
17.3.1 Minefield Removal
One attacking engineer Unit in a Combat Region containing an 
Enemy minefield must be used to remove the minefield, after 
which that engineer Unit is suppressed.
17.3.2	Assault Engineers
If the Combat Region contains a town or city, one engineer Unit 
can be used as assault engineers. Assault engineers negate the 
Defender’s extra combat die for defending in a town or a city. 
This is the only way assault engineer Units contribute to the 
combat. 
17.3.3	Normal Combat
An engineer Unit performing normal combat fights with a com-
bat strength of 1. Note that defending engineer Units always 
perform the normal combat role. 
Exception: If the only attacking Unit or Units are engineers, one 
engineer Unit is treated as infantry with a strength of 1 (i.e., it 
performs the third role).
17.4	 Anti-Aircraft and Anti-Tank Missiles
All missiles are Equipment. Equipment must be assigned to a 
Force (2.4.2).
A missile is a one-use item. Once fired, it is immediately re-
turned to the Equipment pool. 
17.5 Mines and Minefields
Mines and minefields are fully described in 9.9.
17.6	 Mercenaries
Mercenaries are marked with a ‘Merc’. Mercenaries have a 
combat strength and provide Combat Dice Points. Mercenar-
ies can arrive in the game only as Direct Foreign Aid (i.e. the 
Zairois Merc Unit) or where Mercenaries are specified on a Re-
inforcement Card.
Hints on Play
Some tips for new players.
FAPLA/MPLA
1. Luanda is vital. Lose it and you’ll probably lose the game. 
Caxito, Camabatela, Lucala and the nearby jungle regions 
are all crucial to hanging on to the capital.
2. Clear Enemy troops out from behind your front lines as 
quickly as possible.
3. Use your road net and central position to out-maneuver the 
Enemy.
4. Don’t neglect Cabinda. Make sure it is well-garrisoned.
5. On the other hand, don’t over-garrison Cabinda. You want 
to tempt the FNLA into wasting time and resources against 
it.
6. The rules for removing losses as Units mean that an Infantry 
Brigade, adequately supported, can soak up a lot of punish-
ment. This is very useful when defending Cabinda.
7. A two-Faction offensive against the same Enemy can pro-
duce devastating results.
UNITA/FNLA
1. Be prepared to take losses (particularly infantry Units). You 
can rebuild quickly, the Enemy cannot.
2. FNLA:
(a) Try and interrupt Enemy movement. Infiltrate small 
Forces through the jungles, use mines, etc.
(b) Don’t commit all your Forces to the Cabinda battle. A 
competent FAPLA commander will use his opportunity to 
destroy your position in the main area of Angola.
(c) Fighting the later stages of the game with Cabinda in 
Enemy hands is hard work, but not impossible.
3. UNITA:
Make every blow count. Accept the losses and never ease up 
the pressure. Your ally will only make progress if you can 
keep the MPLA from supporting FAPLA in the north.

All Players
1. Don’t rely on strength alone to destroy the Enemy. Maneu-
ver around his Forces, use Supporting Regions to win your 
battles and let retreat zones destroy him.
2. Use small Units to block the drives of large Enemy Col-
umns.
3. Try to use smaller Columns to clear resistance away in front 
of your larger Columns.
4. NEVER give up. Direct Foreign Aid will keep you in the 
game, no matter how badly you lose a turn.
5. Make the most of your Major Units.
Game Notes
Notes on the game design and history.
Jungle
Jungle is a blanket term for regions of particularly difficult 
terrain. Only in the north of Angola are there what can be de-
scribed as areas of true jungle.
Jungle elsewhere ranges from heavily-wooded valleys and 
swampy watershed regions through to thorn forests and areas 
of semi-desert.
The FAPLA/MPLA ‘Alliance’
Within the game the MPLA and FAPLA are presented as two 
different Factions. In actual fact there was only the one ‘fac-
tion’, the MPLA. However, in game terms it was felt that organ-
izing the MPLA into two Factions was an accurate representa-
tion of the difficulties faced by that organization: a two-front 
war, considerable internal disagreement, and the problems 
inherent in cooperating with Cuban forces operating under their 
own commanders. (FAPLA was actually the acronym for the 
armed forces of the MPLA.)
The Time Scale
The game length has been set at ten months. July 1975 was cho-
sen as the starting point because it was then that the war entered 
its second phase (far more extensive fighting, increased interna-
tional concern and the first indications of military involvement 
on the part of South Africa).
This second phase came to an end in March/April 1976 when 
South Africa withdrew its troops from all but the very south 
of the country and the UNITA/FNLA positions consequently 
collapsed.
In actual game terms, Zaire withdrew its troops in Turn 7 and 
South Africa in Turn 8, leading to a FAPLA/MPLA decisive 
victory in Turn 9.
From the end of the second phase the war was to continue unin-
terrupted until 1991, before continuing with periodic ceasefires 
to 2002.
Cabinda
The oil-rich province of Cabinda—separated from the rest of 
Angola by the Zaire river and a strip of Zairois territory—was 
perhaps Angola’s richest asset. The FLEC (Frente para a Lib-
ertação do Enclave de Cabinda, Front for the Liberation of the 
Enclave of Cabinda) was concerned with ‘liberating’ Cabinda 
from its MPLA ‘garrison’.
There are no FLEC units in the game; they are part of the FNLA 
force mix.
Propaganda Victories
As the war progressed the OAU (Organisation for African 
Unity) became increasingly concerned at the scale of foreign 
involvement. Any Faction receiving too many reinforcements 
would become that bit less credible as the next government of 
Angola.
Towns and Cities
All Towns and Cities are referred to by the names used in 1975-
76. Many names have since been changed. For instance, Novoa 
Lisboa is now Huambo.
Portugal
Portuguese troops still garrisoned certain areas at the start of 
the war. However, since these troops were withdrawn shortly 
after the outbreak of hostilities, they have been factored out of 
the game.
Notes on the New Edition
The rules have been reorganized and renumbered. Some sec-
tions have been clarified.
The map in the game’s original 1988 edition was squashed 
along the east-west axis. The new map has been laid out over a 
satellite image of the country and is correctly proportioned.
All the place names have been researched and updated, some-
times with slightly modified spellings.
The southern area of Namibia (South Africa) on the original 
map has been renamed South-West Africa, as this was appar-
ently in more common use at the time.
Credits
Ragnar Brothers Edition:
Original Idea: Phil Kendall
Game Development: Phil Kendall, Roger Greenwood
Further Suggestions: Gary Dicken, Steve Kendall, Dave Rob-
erts, Steve Slade
Playtesting thanks to: The Ragnar Brothers (Norris, Ronnie, 
Gary, Dereck, Terry, Tommy and Quentin) and to Ian and Dave 
Brigante
Multi-Man Publishing Edition:
Developed by: Adam Starkweather
Rules Edit: Jon Gautier
Graphics: Lee Brimmicombe-Wood
Box Art: Nicolas Eskubi
Thanks to: Ian Wakeham, Wendell Albright, Anthony Santiago, 
Jeff Grossman, Jevon Heath, Jeff Meyers, Kevin Rohrer, David 
Hoskins, Jordi Cairol
Card Errata
¶ One of the MPLA Column B cards incorrectly reads ‘Turn 4’. 
This is an ‘At Start’ card that the MPLA player gets for immedi-
ate use in step 1 of the game set up.

Appendix 1: Unit Counters
This lists the number of Unit counters in each Faction (does not 
include the four Major Units of the Zairois, South Africans and 
Cubans for each Faction):
Infantry Units
Infantry Brigades
Armored Cars
Tanks
Artillery
Engineers
Airgroups
Mercenaries
Column Markers
The card mix for each Faction:
Command
Column A
Column B
Column C
Column D
Column E
5th Column
Blank Card
Appendix 2: The Changing Face of War
This describes the changing face of the war. The table lists the 
number of cards in each Faction’s Operations Pack each turn 
and the turns in which new cards are introduced to the Opera-
tions Deck. (This is also summarized on the Game Turn Track.)
Turn
Number of 
Cards per 
Pack
New Cards per Deck
+1 card for Columns D*, E
+1 card for Column B
+1 card for 5th Column
+1 card for Column C
* Not the FNLA, which starts Turn 1 with Column D in play
Production Note
The original Ragnar Brothers game had a total of 65 cards. 
When we make a game at MMP, the cards must come in packs 
of 55. We decided to give you the 65 cards as they came in the 
original version of the game (cards 1 to 65) and 45 duplicate 
Operations Cards for replacement should any be lost or worn 
out (cards 66 to 110). You can tell the original from the dupli-
cate by the stripe on the card.
Original
Duplicate

Crisis Table (12.2) [+2 on first die roll]
Foreign Patron Says
Effects
Confidence is high
Receive one Major Unit. You may even choose one eliminated Major Unit! 
(If no Major Units are available, treat as having no effect.)
6-7
We are content to maintain 
our current policy
No effect.
We are concerned
Withdraw one of your Major Units.
Perhaps you require more 
guidance
Withdraw one of your Major Units.
Receive one fewer Reinforcement Card with each bid (12.4).
None of your Major Units may enter an Enemy-occupied region from this point on.
We are alarmed
Withdraw two of your Major Units.
Receive two fewer Reinforcement Cards with each bid (12.4).
None of your Major Units may move from this point on.
Our confidence is shattered
Withdraw all of your Major Units.
¶ You receive no more direct foreign aid or covert foreign aid (12.4).
Hit Table (9.3.1)
Miss
Suppression
Hit
Combat Dice Bonuses (9.11.2) [net max +5]
+1 per Combat Dice Bonus point (see Unit counters)
+1 per Supporting Region
Combat Dice (9.11.3)
Region
Attacker Rolls
Defender Rolls
Clear
Savannah
Hills or Jungle
Defender receives these extra dice:
+1 if defending in a town or city and Attacker has no 
assault engineers
+1 if defending the up side of an escarpment
+1 if defending a minefield
Adjustment Table (9.11.4)
The Difference Adjustment to odds is:
+6 or better up three levels
+5, +4 up two levels
+3, +2 up one level
+1, +0, -1 no adjustment
-2, -3 down one level
-4, -5 down two levels
-6 or worse down three levels
Result Table (9.11.5)
Final 
Odds
(9.11.6, 9.11.7, 9.11.8)
6-1
Defenders Eliminated
5-1
2/3rds Defenders Eliminated; Defenders 
4-1
1/2 of the Defenders Eliminated; Defenders 
3-1
1/3rd of the Defenders Eliminated; Defenders 
2-1
Defenders Retreat
1-1
Combat Continues
1-2
Attackers Retreat
1/3rd of the Attackers Eliminated; Attackers 
1-4
1/2 of the Attackers Eliminated; Attackers 
Combat Losses (9.11.6)
# of Units in 
For 1/3 
For 1/2 
For 2/3