Anti-Monopoly® 
Instructions 
 
Contents: 
 3 Wooden blue monopolist pawns 
 3 Wooden green competitor pawns 
 25 Competitor cards 
 25 Monopolist cards 
 28 Title cards/mortgage notes 
 Money: 
50- $1 
40- $5 
50- $10 
50- $50 
50- $100 
20- $500 
 Dice 
 35 Wooden houses 
 15 Wooden apartments 
 Rules 
All dollar amounts in game represent values in thousands. 
 
Ready to play? Remember, all elements in this game have been mathematically constructed to 
make a fair game between competitors and monopolists. If either competitors or monopolists 
have the best of it in the first few games you play, it’s because luck is on their side – or because 
they are playing better. 
 
1. Object of Game 
Players have a choice of two ways of playing and winning the game: 
Game A. To win by bankrupting all other players. 
Game B. To be the richest competitor after all monopolists have been bankrupted or to 
be the richest monopolist after all competitors have been eliminated (see Rule 25 for 
determining who is richest). 
 
2. Treasurer 
Select one player as Treasurer to manage and distribute the money, title cards, houses and 
apartments. The Treasurer must keep his/her own money strictly separate from the 
Treasury money. 
 
3. Competitor and Monopolist Cards 
The Treasurer shuffles the Monopolist and Competitor cards and places them face down 
on the appropriate spaces on the board. 
 
 
 

4. Role Division 
a. The players are divided evenly to be either competitors or monopolists. 
b. Even division means that there are the same number of competitors and monopolists 
or, if there is an uneven number of players, the difference between competitors and 
monopolists cannot be more than one. (For example, a division of 2 competitors and 
3 monopolists is legitimate but division of 2 competitors and 4 monopolists is against 
the rules.) 
c. Role division is done by rolling the dice and letting the player with the highest dice 
score choose between being either a monopolist or competitor and then letting the 
others make their choices by clockwise rotation. Players may trade off roles before 
the start of the game if they wish. 
d. The initial role assignment cannot be changed during the game. 
 
5. Starting Budget 
The Treasurer gives each player $1,500; two $500, three $100, two $50, seven $10, five 
$5 and five $1. (Caution: The money is just right to keep the game balanced. It is less 
that you may remember from other games – so watch your money!) 
 
6. Order of Play and Choice of Playing Token 
The same dice outcome used from Role Division is also used to determine the rotation of 
players and to choose the color of playing tokens. Competitors must choose a green 
pawn; monopolist must choose a blue pawn. 
 
7. Doubles Give One Extra Turn 
Players throwing doubles move their token as usual – but must then take one extra turn. 
On this extra turn, doubles are treated as an ordinary throw and do not bring about yet 
another turn. 
 
8. Movement of Players Around the Board 
All players place their tokens on Start. Players then move their tokens around the board 
by rolling the dice and moving them clockwise around the board according to the number 
of spaces indicated by the dice outcome. Players also move their tokens according to 
other directions in the game. 
 
9. Property Purchases and Payments 
Players who land on a street, transportation company or utility not owned by anyone my 
buy this property at the price marked on the board or title card. If a player declines to 
buy the property, it stays in the Treasury as un-owned property. 
 
The Treasurer gives the purchaser the appropriate title card. 
 
A player landing on a street, transportation company or utility owned by someone else 
must pay the owner the amount listed on the respective title card. 
 
 
 

10. Monopolizing a City 
When monopolists own any two streets in a city, they have monopolized the city. Then 
they can charge double rent on the streets owned. When the city has three streets, 
monopolists can charge double on that street also when acquired. Monopolists may build 
only in cities they have monopolized. 
 
11. Building House and Apartments 
 Competitors can build up to four houses on each street they own. Instead of 
building a fifth house, competitors return the four houses to the Treasury and 
purchase an apartment. Prices for the improvements are listed on the title cards. 
Competitors place their houses on the space on which the city name is printed. 
 Monopolists can build up to three houses on each city street they have 
monopolized. Instead of the fourth house, monopolists return the houses to the 
Treasury and purchase an apartment. Prices for the improvements are listed on 
the title cards. Monopolists place their houses on the space marked with an M. 
 Houses and apartments may be purchased only on the player’s turn. 
 There are no restrictions on how players may distribute their houses on the 
properties on which they may build. For example, they may put one house on one 
property in a city and an apartment on another property in the same city. 
However, once built, a house may not be shifted around on properties. 
 
12. Mortgages 
 Mortgage values are one-half of the purchase price listed on each title card. 
Players cannot collect rent on any mortgaged property and they cannot have 
houses on mortgaged property. Monopolists cannot have houses in a city if any 
one of the two properties needed for monopolization of a city are mortgaged. 
Monopolists can collect a single rent on any unmortgaged property in such a city 
but not double rent. 
 When players mortgage a property, they turn over to the Treasurer the appropriate 
title deed. The Treasurer keeps the mortgaged properties apart from unsold 
property title cards. 
 Houses must be returned to the Treasurer for the usual return price (see Rule 13) 
before the property on which they are located can be mortgaged. 
 Mortgaged streets, transportation companies and utilities may be sold to other 
players as mortgaged properties at any agreed price. 
 If the players want to get their mortgaged property back into play, they may pay 
to the Treasurer the amount listed on the mortgage note (shown on the back of the 
title card). The Treasurer then returns the appropriate title card to the player. 
 
 
 
 
13. Returning Houses to the Treasurer 
The compensation is one-half the purchase price. Houses may be sold by players only to 
the Treasurer. 
 

LANDING ON OTHER SPACES 
 
14. Start Space 
Players collect $100 when landing on or passing START. 
 
15. Price, Price War or Sight-Seeing Space 
Players can end up on this space in two different ways: 
1. They land there during a regular move. Then they are just sightseeing. They 
move on when their next turn comes and they pay no penalties to leave. 
2. They are sent there by landing on the GO TO PRISON or GO TO PRICE 
WAR space or by following directions on the Competitor or Monopolist 
cards. In this case, they have to move their token to either the PRISON or 
PRICE WAR triangle without collecting anything from the START space. 
They may have to pay a penalty to move on. 
 
Competitors are sent to PRICE WAR. While on PRICE WAR, competitors continue to 
collect rents or other charges due them. 
 
Monopolists are sent to PRISON. While in PRISON, monopolists do not collect rents or 
other charges normally due them. 
 
Players leave PRISON or PRICE WAR in one of two ways: 
 
1. They throw doubles on any one of their first two regular turns after landing 
there. If no doubles are thrown on these two turns, they must pay $50 before 
their third turn. On their third turn they move forward as usual. 
2. They pay $50 before the first or second turn and then move forward as usual. 
 
Doubles thrown while on the PRISON or PRICE WAR space is treated exactly like any 
other doubles (see Rule 7). 
 
16. Competitor or Monopolists Spaces 
Competitors pick the top card of the Competitor deck and follow directions. Monopolists 
pick the top card of the Monopolists deck and follow directions. The card is then 
returned to the bottom of the deck in both cases. 
 
17. Income Tax Space 
Pay $200 or a percentage of your assets (assets are money, houses and apartments, and 
unmortgaged properties). 
Monopolists pay $200 or 20 percent of their cash plus 10 percent of the listed purchase 
price of their unmortgaged streets, transportation companies or utilities and 10 percent of 
the original cost of their houses and apartments. 
 
Competitors pay $200 or 10 percent of their cash plus 10 percent of the listed purchase 
price of their unmortgaged streets, transportation companies or utilities and 10 percent of 
original cost of their houses and apartments. 

 
18. Property Tax 
Everybody pays $75 
 
19. Transportation Companies 
Transportation companies owned by competitors earn the usual 10 percent return no 
matter how many are owned. This is because they are subject to utility regulations. 
 
The fares of transportation companies owned by monopolists double with each additional 
company acquired by a monopolist. (Caution: A monopolist who owns all four transport 
companies will be hard to beat in this game. In the real world, can you imagine what 
would happen if a monopolists controlled all transport – without utility regulation?) 
 
20. Utilities 
When a player lands on a utility owned by someone else, he/she throws the dice and pays 
as follows: 
Competitors collect 4X the amount of the dice throw no matter how many utilities are 
owned. 
Monopolists collect 4X the amount of the dice throw if one utility is owned; 10X if both 
are owned. 
 
21. Anti-Monopoly Foundation 
Competitors roll one die. If 1, collect $25, if 2, collect $50. Otherwise, no grant, no 
collection. 
Monopolists pay $10 into the Foundation. Payment is made to the Treasurer. 
 
22. Insufficient Houses 
If the Treasurer runs out of houses or apartments, players must make up extra ones out of 
cardboard or paper as needed. 
 
23. Trading 
Trading between players is allowed except for houses and apartments. These must be 
returned to the Treasurer (Rule 13) before properties are traded. 
 
24. Bankruptcy 
Bankrupted players must first resell their houses and apartments back to the Treasurer at 
half price. Then, the bankrupt players’ remaining money and property (with mortgages 
still in effect) are turned over to the player who caused bankruptcy, and the bankrupted 
player leaves the game. 
If players are bankrupted by the Treasurer, all their cash and property is turned over to 
the Treasurer. The property becomes unsold, unmortgaged property to be resold as usual 
to the remaining players (see Rule 9). 
 
25. Who is the Richest Player 
The richest player and winner of Games B (see Rule 1) is determined by adding up the 
players’ cash plus income that can be earned on unmortgaged properties when one player 

lands on them. For income on utilities, each utility owner throws the dice as under Rule 
20. 
 
26. Borrowing From Other Players 
Players may not borrow from other players. 
 
TWO HOUR GAME 
(This game is also recommended for tournaments) 
 
The winner and richest player is chosen by the following procedure: 
a. Players can adjust their holdings as they think best by buying or selling 
houses or mortgaging or paying off mortgages on their holdings. The 
player may only deal with the Treasurer and they may not trade or sell 
property or pay money amongst themselves. 
b. Competitors are allowed to keep 10% of their remaining cash while 
monopolists are allowed to keep 20% of their remaining cash. The 
remainder is turned over to the Treasurer. 
c. The Treasurer travels around the board once, stopping on each piece of 
owned property once. He or she then pays from the bank to the owner 
of each property the rent or payment due according to the usual rules. 
d. The winner is the player with the most cash. 
 
©1977, 1985, 1987, 1989, 2005 by Ralph Anspach. Anti-Monopoly is trademark owned by Hasbro, Inc., and is used pursuant to 
a license.