ANTIKE
RULES
A STRATEGY GAME 
FOR 2 TO 6 PLAYERS 
BY MAC GERDTS

ANTIKE
Description .............................................................. I
Game Material ......................................................II
Game Set-Up .........................................................III
Object of Game .......................................................IV
Game Flow ............................................................. V
Production Actions .................................................VI
Marble
Iron
Gold
Utilization Actions .................................................VI
Temple
Arming
Know-How
Military Action ................................................... VIII
Phase 1: Movement
Phase 2: Conquest
Examples of Military Action .................................... X
Strategy Tips ..........................................................XI
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) ....................... XII
Ludo ergo sum .....................................................XIII
Variations of Antike .............................................XIII

DESCRIPTION
ANTIKE is a challenging strategy game about the evolution and 
competition of ancient civilizations. The name of the game in Ger-
man means "age of antiquity".
Ancient nations found cities, erect temples, sail the seas, do battle, 
and make scientiﬁc progress. Their legions and galleys open new regi-
ons for settlement, and defend against the enemy. For action in two 
diﬀerent ancient operational theaters, players choose a nation from 
among the Greeks, Romans, Germanic tribes, Phoenicians, Cartha-
ginians, Persians, Arabs, Egyptians and Babylonians.
ANTIKE is not a game of conquest. The ancient nations do not 
compete to establish the biggest kingdom. Instead, each nation tries to 
win kings, scholars, generals, citizens and navigators over to its side. 
The nation that succeeds in gaining a given number of ancient per-
sonages ﬁrst wins the game. Lead an ancient nation to victory! But 
watch out for your enemies, who will try to destroy your temples!
ANTIKE, for 2 to 6 players aged 12 and up, is a fast-moving stra-
tegy game, rich in variety and with easy-to-follow rules. Winning 
depends not on the luck of cards or dice, but on imaginative planning 
and smart diplomacy.
Playing time: approx. 90 to 120 minutes. 
 Thanks to Carlton Dempﬂe 
for the translation into English. 
I

• Game board, two-sided
• 12 nation cards (West, 6: Greeks, Romans, 
Germanic tribes, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, 
Persians; East, 6: Greeks, Persians, Arabs, 
Phoenicians, Egyptians, Babylonians)
• 35 ancient personage cards (9 kings, 8 scho-
lars, 7 generals, 6 citizens, 5 navigators)
• One "starting player“ card
• Iron, marble and gold chips in 1-, 2- and 5-unit 
denominations
• 30 coins, usable as desired as 1-unit marble, 
iron or gold chips
• 20 white temples
• 150 round, ﬂat city stones, 25 in each nation‘s 
color
• 102 legions in six colors 
• 102 galleys in six colors
• 36 octagonal game stones to mark the nation‘s 
position on the rondel, score card and progress 
chart
• 4 short rule cards 
• rule book
Note about game board:
ANTIKE can be played on either side, using the 
same rules. The sides show very roughly (1) the 
Roman Empire (WEST side) and (2) the empire 
of Alexander the Great (EAST side).
Each side has 50 provinces, separated by red 
land borders, blue sea borders, or combination 
red and blue land and sea borders. Each 
province contains the site of a potential city - 
marble cities are white, iron cities are blue, and 
gold cities are yellow. Each side of the game 
board also contains
• At upper right corner, a rondel with eight wedges 
in a circle, providing the nation with a choice of 
actions.
• At lower left, a progress chart showing techni-
cal, economic, and political advances made by 
each nation
• To the right of the progress chart, a score card, 
showing the running total of ancient persona-
ges won by each nation.
GAME MATERIAL
II

1. Set up the bank
Sort the 35 ancient personage cards into ﬁve 
stacks - kings, scholars, generals, citizens and 
navigators. Arrange each stack numerically, This 
way a glance at the top card tells you how many 
cards remain in stack. Place the marble (white), 
iron (blue) and gold (yellow) chips, the 30 coins, 
and the 20 white temples next to the game board, 
for use as needed.
2. Distribute nation cards
First, decide which side of board to play on, and 
how many will play. For 2 players, 4 nations take 
part. For 3-6 players, there is one nation per 
player. The number of nations determines which 
nations take part.
For:
West (Roman Empire) side:
Greeks, Romans and Germanic tribes
always take part
Phoenicians 
are added for 2, 4, 5 or 6 players
Carthaginians 
are added for 5 or 6 players
Persians 
are added for 6 players
For:
East (orient) side:
Greeks, Persians and Arabs
always take part
Phoenicians:
are added for 2, 4, 5 or 6 players
Egyptians:
are added for 5 or 6 players
Babylonians:
are added for 6 players
For each nation, there is a card listing the nation‘s 
starting cities. The nation cards being used in the 
game are turned face-down, and offered to the 
players for them to draw. Or, players can pick 
from the face-up cards, starting with the youngest 
(or whatever) player, and going clockwise around 
the table.
3. Distribute game materials 
At the start of the game, each nation receives 
the resources from the bank shown on its nation 
card. (1 blue iron, 2 white marble and 3 yellow 
gold units).
Also, each nation gets a different color of: 
17 legions 17 galleys 25 city stones 6 game 
stones.
No nation can have any more than this number 
of legions, galleys, or city stones during the 
game.
4. Occupy three start cities
Each nation starts with one marble, one iron and 
one gold city. The three start cities are different 
for each number of participating nations, and are 
shown on the same line of the nation cards.
3 Line: start cities for 3 nations
4 Line: start cities for 4 nations
5 Line: start cities for 5 nations
6 Line: start cities for 6 nations
On game board, nations place city stones on their 
start cities.
ANTIKE for two players:
Each player manages two nations; in the Roman 
Empire region (West), one player manages the 
Romans and Phoenicians, the other the Germa-
nic tribes and the Greeks. In the other theater 
(East), one manages the Persians and Phoe-
nicians, the other the Greeks and Arabs. Each 
nation acts independently, with its supplies and 
ancient personage collection kept separate from 
the other‘s. The game ends as soon as one of the 
four nations has won 9 ancient personages.
Another variation for two players is for each play-
er to manage one nation, but use two colors, and 
double the materials used. In this variation, the 
ﬁrst player to gain 15 ancient personages wins 
the game. At the start of the game, players take 
turns picking out their three starting cities. The 
starting player can be determined by the ﬂip of 
a coin.
GAME SET-UP DIRECTIONS
III

IV
Additionally, a nation which owns all 8 know-
hows is awarded an extra ancient personage 
(page VII).
Any deserved ancient personages are awarded 
at the end of a turn. Once won, an ancient per-
sonage cannot be lost. This applies also when 
possessions that led to the award are no longer 
held.
A nation with 10 cities and two ancient kings lo-
ses one city (to conquest), so it no longer has 
the 10th city it needed to gain the second king. 
Nevertheless, it keeps the second king. Howe-
ver when the nation has 10 cities again, it does 
not get another king. The third king is awarded 
only when the nation possesses a total of 15 
cities.
The number of personages each nation has 
won is shown by the nations‘ colored octagonal 
markers on the score card at the bottom of the 
board.
The total of personages needed to win the game 
is based on the number of nations participating, 
as follows
with 6 nations 
 7 ancient personages 
with 5 nations 
 8 ancient personages 
with 4 nations 
 9 ancient personages 
with 3 nations 
10 ancient personages
When ﬁve or six nations participate, it can happen 
at some point that all 35 personages have been 
awarded, and there is still no winner. In that case, 
from then on, the ﬁrst nation to destroy a temple 
is the winner.
Note: „Ancient personages“ are referred to as 
„Key People“ on the Short Rule cards provided 
with this game.
The object of the game is to be the ﬁrst nation to 
win a given number of ancient personages. There 
are ﬁve kinds of personages, which a nation wins 
for different achievements. The total of each per-
sonage available is given in parentheses:
 KINGS (9)
For every ﬁve cities a nation owns, it receives 
one king. When it owns 10 cities, it receives a 
second king, etc.
 SCHOLARS (8)
For every new advance (new know-how), a 
nation receives an ancient scholar
 GENERALS (7)
For every temple a nation destroys, it receives 
one ancient general. A temple is destroyed when 
the city in which it stands is conquered.
 CITIZEN (6)
For every three temples a nation owns, it receives 
one citizen. When it has a total of six temples, 
it receives a second citizen, etc. 
 NAVIGATOR (5)
For every seven seas sailed, a nation receives 
an ancient navigator. For 14 seas sailed, it 
receives a second navigator. A province is 
counted as a sailed sea for the nation when it 
has at least one of the nation‘s galleys in it at the 
end of a turn. Other nations‘ galleys standing in 
the same provinces are simply ignored.
 OBJECT OF GAME

Starting player
The nation with a red dot on its nation card 
highlighting the number of nations taking part 
starts the game. It also get the "starting player" 
card. With four nations participating, for example, 
the Phoenicians start (red dot highlighting the 
4). 
Take a coin
At the start of each round of play (when the 
player who started the game has his turn again) 
each nation receives a coin from the bank. 
These coins can substitute at all times for 1-
unit marble, iron, or gold chips. When the bank 
has no more coins, players can request 1-unit 
marble, iron or gold chips instead.
Players take turns round the table in clock-wise 
sequence. On each nation‘s turn, an action ﬁeld 
(wedge) of the player‘s choice will be selected on 
the rondel, and marked with a game stone of the 
nation‘s color. If a nation places its game stone 
on the wedge marked GOLD for example, it can 
produce gold, etc. The full meaning of the individ-
ual wedges will be explained in the succeeding 
pages. After the rondel action, a nation may still 
found cities and win ancient personages. 
Taking a turn
1. Moving on the rondel 
For the ﬁrst turn, each nation can select any 
wedge on the rondel that it wishes. But for every 
succeeding turn, the nation must move clockwise 
around the rondel. Starting from its last position, 
the nation may move one, two or three wedges 
on the rondel free of charge. For advancing 
more than three wedges, the bank must be paid, 
per each additional wedge, one resource of the 
nation‘s choice, i.e., a marble, iron or gold chip 
or a coin. It is not possible simply to remain on 
the wedge used for the previous turn. To use 
the same wedge twice in a row, a nation must 
advance eight wedges and pay the bank ﬁve 
resource units of its choice (marble, iron or gold 
units, or coins).
A nation‘s game stone is on IRON. It can ad-
vance to TEMPLE, GOLD, or MANEUVER free 
of charge. But to advance to ARMING, it must 
pay the bank one resource, to MARBLE two re-
sources etc.
2. Founding Cities
A nation may found one or more new cities. The 
nation must however have at least one military 
unit (legion or galley) in the province where the 
city is to be built. Foreign military units in the 
province cannot prevent the city‘s founding. For 
each newly founded city, the nation must pay 
the bank one marble, one iron and one gold unit. 
Coins can substitute for lacking marble, iron or 
gold chips. The nation places a city stone of its 
color on each new city it founds.
3. Winning Ancient Personages
At the end of a turn, a nation collects one or more 
ancient personages if it meets the requirements 
for each, and the bank still has them available.
GAME FLOW 
V

 Marble
For every marble city a nation owns, it receives 
marble units from the bank. It receives:
• 1 marble unit per marble city without temple
• 3 marble units per marble city with temple.
A nation owns three marble cities, one of them 
with a temple. It receives from the bank 1 + 1(for 
two cities without temple) + 3 (for one city with 
temple) = total 5 marble units.
 Iron
For each iron city a nation owns, it receives iron 
units from the bank. It receives:
• 1 iron unit per iron city without temple
• 3 iron units per iron city with temple
 Gold
For each gold city a nation owns,it receives gold 
units from the bank. It receives:
• 1 gold unit per gold city without temple
• 3 gold units per gold city with temple
The production of marble, iron and gold can be 
increased by obtaining the know-hows Market 
(+1) and Currency (+2).
 Temple
A nation may build one or more new temples. For 
each new temple, it pays the bank ﬁve marble 
units, and places the temple on the game board 
beside the city. 
The temple triples the city‘s ability to produce, 
arm and defend itself. Reason for this achieve-
ment is the temple‘s producing a marked increase 
in public contentment and productivity.
Only one temple can be built per city. If all 20 
temples are already on the game board, no 
further temples can be built until destroyed temp-
les can return to play. 
 Arming
A nation can set up additional military units (legi-
ons or galleys). For each new military unit, it pays 
the bank one iron unit, then sets up the unit in a 
province where the nation already owns a city. 
Each new military unit set-up is limited to:
• 1 unit in province where the nation owns a city 
without a temple
• 3 units in a province where the nation owns a 
city with a temple
The above limits apply only to new units set 
up per turn. There is no limit to the number of 
military units either owned by the province‘s 
nation or foreign, that can stand in a province 
at any one time. The presence of foreign units 
does not prevent setting up new units.
Only galleys can be set up in provinces with only 
blue sea borders; only legions can be set up in 
provinces with only red land borders.
Game tip:
To avoid confusion when a nation with many 
military units is adding others, the new ones 
should be tipped on their side until the turn is 
over. Then they are tipped upright.
VI
WEDGES (ACTION FIELDS)
PRODUCTION ACTIONS
UTILIZATION ACTIONS
There are three kinds of wedges on the rondel:
• Wedges to produce resources (marble, iron or 
gold) 
• Wedges to utilize resources that have been 
produced: Temple, Arming, Know-How. These 
utilization wedges are located exactly opposite 
the wedges on the rondel used for production 
of the corresponding resources. 
• The Maneuver wedge which is printed twice on 
the rondel, for military action.

Know-How 
(technical, economic or political advances)
A nation may secure one or more know-hows by 
paying gold to the bank. 
In the top row of the progress chart are the BASIC 
KNOW-HOWS (wheel, sailing, market, monar-
chy). In the bottom row are the SECONDARY 
KNOW-HOWS - roads, navigation, currency, and 
democracy.
To obtain a SECONDARY KNOW-HOW, a nati-
on must already own the corresponding BASIC 
KNOW-HOW. Nations must have
• wheel, to get roads,
• sailing, to get navigation,
• market, to get currency,
• monarchy, to get democracy.
Each know-how that a nation obtains is marked 
on the progress chart with one of the nation‘s 
(colored) octagonal game stones. When the 
nation obtains the corresponding secondary 
know-how, that game stone is moved down on 
the chart to the secondary know-how.
The bank receives
• 7 gold units per each NEW basic know-how and 
10 per each NEW secondary know-how. New 
know-hows are those which no other nation 
already possesses.
• 3 gold units per each basic and ﬁve for each 
secondary know-how that one or more of the 
nations already possess.
Introducing advances in know-how ﬁrst is 
a great civilizational achievement, which is 
therefore recognized with the award of one 
ancient scholar.
A nation with no know-hows wants to obtain the know-
how navigation. Other nations already possess the 
basic know-how sailing. The nation pays 3 (for sailing) 
+ 10 (for the new know-how navigation) = total 13 gold 
units. The nation places its octagonal game stone on 
navigation on the progress chart. For navigation, it is 
awarded an ancient scholar.
Nations with all eight know-hows receive an 
extra ancient personage from the stack with 
the most remaining. If more than 1 stack has the 
most remaining, the nation chooses which it will 
take. Also, nations with all eight know-hows can 
trade marble, iron or gold with the bank at any 
time, at a rate of 2 for 1.
Advantages of possessing Know-How:
WHEEL:
Every legion of a nation choosing maneuver can 
carry out up to two maneuver actions.
ROADS:
Every legion of a nation choosing maneuver can 
carry out up to three maneuver actions.
SAILING:
Every galley of the nation choosing maneuver 
can carry out up to two maneuver actions.
NAVIGATION:
Every galley of the nation choosing maneuver 
can carry out up to three maneuver actions.
MARKET:
When producing on MARBLE, IRON, or GOLD, 
the nation receives one extra unit.
CURRENCY:
When producing on MARBLE, IRON, or GOLD, 
the nation receives two extra units. 
Example: A nation with two gold cities without a 
temple, and one with a temple produces 5 gold 
units. With the know-how MARKET, the produc-
tion total rises to 6, and with CURRENCY, to 7.
MONARCHY
increases the defense strength of a nation‘s cities 
by 1.
DEMOCRACY
increases the defense strength of a nation‘s cities 
by 2.
VII
UTILIZATION ACTIONS

The MANEUVER wedge appears twice on the 
rondel, to give nations ﬂexibility at all times to 
act and react militarily.
 MANEUVER
The maneuver action is carried out in two suc-
cessive phases: 
1. In Phase one the galleys and legions of a 
nation on the board can move and ﬁght. (Mo-
vement action).
2. In Phase two, the nation can conquer foreign 
cities (Conquest action).
In the early stages of the game, each military unit 
may carry out only one maneuver action per turn. 
This may be either a movement or a conquest 
action. By obtaining the know-hows WHEEL, 
ROADS, SAILING and NAVIGATION, a nation 
can increase its actions per military unit per turn 
to two or three.
Phase 1: Movement Action
All of a nation‘s military units (legions and galleys) 
can be moved on the board in any desired se-
quence. In every movement action, a military unit 
crosses a border of a neighboring province. Red 
land-borders can be crossed only by legions, and 
blue sea borders crossed only by galleys. Com-
bined red-blue land-sea borders can be crossed 
by both legions and galleys.
A legion with the know-how ROADS can carry 
out three maneuver actions, and so may cross 
three red land borders per turn.
The movement of military units into a province 
where foreign units are already standing may 
result in a battle if either of the nations invol-
ved wants it. Legions can ﬁght only legions and 
galleys only galleys. In such a battle both sides 
lose the same number of similar military units, 
and remove them from the game-board on a 1:1 
basis.
A nation‘s three galleys enter the Province of 
Athens, in which the Greeks have one galley 
and one legion stationed. The Greeks demand a 
ﬁght. The invaders and the Greeks each remove 
one galley from the gameboard. The Greek le-
gion is not involved in the ﬁght, since it cannot 
ﬁght galleys.
Battles are always possible, and require no spe-
cial preparation. Military units, including those 
that have not moved, can battle enemy units in 
the same province. All battles are resolved one 
after another. When one ﬁght is over, the next 
military unit can carry out its movement and/or 
ﬁght too. 
As each military unit completes its movements, it 
is laid on its side. This way the nation retains an 
overview of which of its units still have maneuver 
actions left. Units that have not moved, or only 
partially moved, remain upright. 
A galley with navigation that has moved only 
twice will not be tipped on its side, since it can 
still carry out a third maneuver action.
A city with enemy military units in its province is 
not disadvantaged in any way. It can continue 
producing resources and setting up military units 
in its province, unimpeded. If a nation has no wish 
to carry out further movements or ﬁght, it may still 
engage in conquest of cities (phase 2).
Phase 2: Conquest Action
In Phase two, cities are conquered.
To take part in a conquest, military units must be 
situated in the province of the city to be conquered, 
and must be standing erect, that is, still capable of 
carrying out an action during the turn. To conquer a 
city, the number of the nation‘s active military units 
(those still standing erect) must be at least equal 
to the defense strength of the city.
The defense strength of any city totals:
• 1 for a city without a temple,
• 3 for a city with a temple.
To this is added:
• the number of the legions and galleys of the 
defender that stand in the province of the city,
• a bonus of 1 if the defending nation has the 
know-how MONARCHY, OR 2 if it has the 
know-how DEMOCRACY.
VIII
MILITARY ACTION

Example (See illustration)
The defender has one galley and one legion 
standing in the Province of Corniclanum. The 
city has a temple. The defender also posses-
ses the know-how MONARCHY. The defense 
strength of the city is 6 (3 for city with temple + 
2 military units, plus 1 for MONARCHY) = TO-
TAL 6.
The conquering nation clears the board of its 
active (still standing) military units equal to the 
defense strength of the city. The units removed 
may be legions or galleys.
At the conquest, the defending nation removes 
the following from the board 
• its city stone 
• its temple, if any
• all of its legions and galleys in the province of 
the conquered city
The destroyed temple is returned to the bank, 
for re-use.
The conquering nation places its city stone (of its 
color) on the city, signalling the change in owner-
ship. For this new city, it is not necessary to have 
any military units left in the province.
EXAMPLES OF CONQUEST ACTIONS:
The defense strength of Tryos totals 2 (that is, 
1 city + 1 legion). There is no know-how bonus. 
The city is conquered by two galleys. The city
stone changes to yellow, signalling the new ow-
nership.
Here too Tyros‘ defense strength totals 2. The city 
is conquered by one legion and one galley. Only 
a yellow city stone and a yellow legion remain. 
(Yellow could have attacked with two legions, and 
then had a yellow galley instead of a legion left 
over.)
RARE EXCEPTIONS:
1. If a conquering nation already owns 25 cities 
and so has no more city stones left for a new 
conquest, it can give up one of the cities foun-
ded previously and use that stone for the new 
town.
2. If a nation has only one city left, that city cannot 
be conquered.
 
after
 
after
IX
MILITARY ACTION

 
Movement action 
Know-hows
green: none
red: Navigation
The defense strength of 
Alexandria totals 3. The 
red galleys, with the na-
vigation know-how, have 
three maneuver actions 
each. So they can take 
part in conquering Alex-
andria.
 
Aktion Bewegung
Know-hows: green: none / yellow: sailing
With the SAILING know-how, the yellow galleys have 
two maneuver actions each. However to reach the 
Province of Alexandria, one of the galleys would use 
up both its actions and then be tipped on its side. 
There would then be left only 
one galley, and this could not 
conquer Alexandria, which 
has a defense strength of 2.
 If green had a galley instead of 
a legion in the Province of Alexandria (see illustration on the right), the conquest 
of Alexandria could take place. For this, however, the galley from Attalia would 
ﬁrst have to eliminate the galley in Alexandria in a mutual destruction battle.
Know-hows: red: monarchy / yellow: roads
With ROADS know-how, the yellow legions have three maneuver actions each. They can reach Rome in two 
movements. However, they must ﬁrst cross a province with one green legion. If green demands a mutual 
destruction ﬁght, only four of the legions will reach Rome. Conquest would then be impossible, since the 
defense strength of Rome is 5. On the other hand, if no battle is demanded, the yellow units can proceed 
in peace, and conquer Rome (illustration 3 and 4).
 
 
 
Battle 
No battle
X
EXAMPLES OF MILITARY ACTION

Know-hows: red: MONARCHY / yellow: ROADS and NAVIGATION
Yellow can conquer Attalia, but must follow an exact plan. First it must ﬁght and eliminate two red legions 
marked 1 and 2, in that order. Yellow‘s legions and galleys then proceed to Attalia, but on the way elimi-
nate one red galley. The remaining two yellow legions and 2 yellow galleys match the defense strength 
of Attalia (4), and conquer the city.
Opening strategy
With starting resources of one iron, two marble, 
and three gold units, all three of the following 
opening strategies are reasonable.
Growth strategy: Play MARBLE, then TEMPLE. 
To reach temple, pay one gold unit. Pay the bank 
three marble units and two coins and receive a 
temple, which triples the power of the city.
Military strategy: Play ARMING and pay one iron 
unit and one coin to set up two military units.
Then play MANEUVER. Move both military 
units. Immediately after the maneuver action, 
pay one gold and one marble chip and one coin, 
to found a city. 
Progress strategy: Play GOLD, on the next turn 
MARBLE, and on the third KNOW-HOW. For 
four gold units and three coins buy a new basic 
know-how, and in so doing win your ﬁrst ancient 
scholar.
Supporting a conquest action
Military units that exhaust all their maneuvers to 
reach a province can still help make a conquest. 
This is done by battling military units that would 
otherwise defend the city.
Know-hows aiding movement are impor-
tant
Don‘t underestimate the advantage of securing 
know-hows that facilitate movement. Consider 
obtaining the basic know-hows WHEEL and 
SAILING before you think of conquering cities. 
Without these know-hows that facilitate move-
ment, a conquest can take a very high number 
of turns.
How to win in the windup
In the ﬁnal part of the game, if only ancient ge-
nerals remain to be won, all action should focus 
on destroying temples. There is little point in con-
quering or defending cities that have no temples. 
That only leads to needless loss of military units 
which then cannot be used to conquer cities with 
temples. Especially in this phase of the game, 
know-hows that facilitate movement are impor-
tant. Huge armies achieve little when know-hows 
that facilitate movement are lacking.
A well-aimed attack that ignores cities that have 
no temples can decide the game faster than 
expected. Whoever tries simply to expand his 
empire will most likely lose against more expe-
rienced players.
STRATEGY TIPS
XI

May nations make deals?
Yes. Nations can agree for example to crea-
te spheres of inﬂuence or make non-agression 
pacts. However they cannot be forced to abide 
by such agreements. There is no rule to enforce 
compliance. The strength of an agreement de-
pends on intentions of each side.
May nations trade with each other?
No, nations may not trade, lend or give chips or 
coins or other resources in any manner. Also, the 
bank distributes only what nations are entitled to, 
and gives no advances or credit.
What happens when the bank‘s or nations‘ 
supplies are exhausted?
With one exception, the bank or nation that runs 
out of an item must simply continue without it. 
If for example the bank has no more temples, 
none can be built. If a nation has no more legions 
in supply, it cannot set up new legions. The only 
exception is when the bank runs out of coins. 
In that case, the players have the choice of a 
marble, iron, or gold unit as a substitute.
What does a nation do with gold when it 
already has all eight know-hows?
The nation with all the know-hows can trade re-
sources with the bank at the rate of 2 for 1. So 
it can, for example, trade 3 gold and 1 marble 
units for 2 iron units, with which it can then set 
up 2 military units.
Can legions be transported over water?
No. Legions and galleys must abide by the rules, 
which permit them to cross only certain kinds of 
borders. Just as galleys cannot move over land, 
legions cannot be transported across water.
Can legions and galleys ﬁght each other?
No. No direct ﬁght between legions and galleys 
is possible. However, in one case, that is, the 
conquest of a city, legions and galleys can con-
front each other. For example, a city defended 
only by legions can be conquered by galleys, and 
vice versa.
When can a nation use its military units to 
ﬁght?
On these three occasions:
1. Nations performing a Phase 1 Movement Ma-
neuver can engage an enemy in the same pro-
vince in a mutual destruction battle at any time, 
with similar units (legions or galleys) canceling 
each other out on a one to one basis.
2. Nations not having a turn can engage an ene-
my in the same province in a mutual destruc-
tion battle immediately after the enemy enters 
that province, with opposing legions and gal-
leys cancelling each other out on a one to one 
basis.
3. Nations whose city is being conquered must 
defend that city with all their military units (le-
gions and galleys) that are standing in that 
city‘s province. Only in this special case (the 
conquest of a city) can legions and galleys di-
rectly oppose each other.
Therefore, for a ﬁght or conquest, at least one 
nation must select the turn “maneuver”.
Can a city be conquered simply by the act of 
foreign units entering its province? 
No. Simple movement of an enemy into a provin-
ce is inadequate for that. For conquest, a Phase 
2 conquest action is necessary.
Can military units attack more than once?
With a conquest, the life of a military unit involved 
is immediately ended. Such units cannot conquer 
twice, even if they have maneuver actions left 
over. 
Can a city be attacked and not conquered?
No. As long as a city is not actually conquered, 
it cannot be attacked. There is no such thing as 
an unsuccessful conquest action.
For further questions visit us at www.eggert-
spiele.de or directly on the Antike website: 
www.strategie-spiele.de/antike
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs)
XII

XIII
Longer game: 
If a longer game is desired, each nation can start 
with just one city. The start cities can be chosen 
from the three start cities on the nation card. 
Trying to build up a nation that initially has only 
very limited action choices can present a huge 
challenge.
Antike for three players:
With three players, the number of ancient per-
sonages needed to win can be set at 10 or 12 
players. However, the goal of 12 requires some 
experience. Without a good knowledge of stra-
tegic possibilities, beginners tend to become in-
volved in long near-stalemates.
LUDO ERGO SUM
"LUDO ERGO SUM“.
(Latin: I play , therefore I am)
The game ANTIKE appeared at the end of 2004, 
as the further development of games of historic 
themes which were played only in limited private 
circles. Antike wanted to produce a contest with 
simple rules, many variations, and one that still 
picked exciting strategic challenges after years 
of play.
The evolution of ANTIKE was a joint effort, 
involving much testing without which the 
game as it now appears would not have been 
possible. Most of the test-playing probably took 
place in Hamburg-Rieckhof (Germany). Peter 
Dörsam and Peter Eggert provided helpful 
criticism, along with Stefan Fellehner, Rainer 
Vogler, Stephan Borowski, Kai Hollenbach, 
Thomas Mumm and others. At Eggertspiele, a 
small publishing house wiht much experience 
in unique games, enthusiasm for ANTIKE was 
infectious. Financial support was given readily 
by the PD-Verlag. The graphic talents of Stefﬁ 
Krage made the production of the game in its 
present state possible.
Through test-playing, the rules were constantly 
made simpler and easier to use. Features that 
contributed more to complicating the game than 
to making it more enjoyable were eliminated. 
Still the variety and challenge remained, and 
this was a priority.
As a result, ANTIKE offers not only hours of 
enjoyment, but also high-quality components 
with more than 400 wooden game parts. The 
two-sided game-board adds to the enjoyment 
potential.
Do you have any criticisms or suggestions, or 
ideas for other game variations?
Our website www.eggertspiele.de is ready for 
any critical or positive comments!
Hamburg, 2005
Mac Gerdts
VARIATIONS OF ANTIKE
Expert Variation:
In this variation, the nation with all eight know-
hows receives no extra ancient personage. The 
conquest of cities and destruction of temples then 
becomes even more important.
Military variation:
For every general, a nation gets 2 victory points; 
for other personages, 1 point each (total 42). 
With 6 nations playing, the ﬁrst to gain 8 victory 
points wins. The goal is 9 with 5 nations, 11 with 
4 nations, and 13 with 3 nations. The score board 
registers VICTORY POINTS instead of persona-
ges. In this variation, no personage is awarded 
for having 8 know-hows.

ANTIKE: SHORT RULES
RÈGLES FRANÇAISE, REGOLE ITALIANO
REGLAS ESPAÑOL ...
www.strategie-spiele.de/antike
ANTIKE-VIDEO:
http://www.boardgameswithscott.com/?p=20
1. MOVE ON RONDEL 
(1-3 steps free, pay 1 unit of resource for each additional step)
MARBLE
IRON
GOLD
TEMPLE 
Pay 5 marble units for each new temple. 
Permanent max. 1 temple per city
ARMING 
Pay 1 iron unit to install legion or galley in your 
province. Add max.1 per turn if without temple, 
3 if province has temple.
KNOW-HOW Pay 7 gold units per new basic know-how, 10 per 
new secondary, 3 per old basic, 5 per old secondary.
MANEUVER Military units can maneuver once per turn, 
but twice with wheel/sailing know-how, 
or three times with roads/navigation know-how. 
Maneuvers, which can be combined: 
Movement - move to next province. 
Conquest - Match opponent‘s defense strength only 
with units in target province. Defense strength = 1 
for city without temple, or 3 for city with temple 
+ total defending units in target province, 
+ bonus, if it applies: monarchy +1, democracy +2. 
Fight: legion cancels out legion, galley galley, 1:1.
2. FOUND CITIES Only in provinces containing your military unit. 
Pay 1 marble, 1 iron and 1 gold unit per new city.
3. WIN KEY PEOPLE King, Scholar, General, Citizen, Navigator
For each of your nation‘s cities supplying selected
resource, take 1 unit of resource per city without 
temple, 3 units per city with temple.
+ bonus, if it applies: market +1, currency +2.
produce
use
move