3 Player overlay
Fig. 2 The 3 player board.
The Doe Track
27 x food tokens
1 starting player marker (green pawn)
20 x control tiles (four sets of 1,2,3,X and blank)
1 x die
50 x antler pieces
12 wily tiles
4 x winning stag tokens
4 x doe track markers (1 of each colour)
12 x fighting cubes (advanced game, 3 of each colour)
4 Players
Introduction
The stags of Antler Island are getting ready for the rutting season. Only the smartest and strongest will catch
the eye of the beautiful does as they head to the best breeding grounds. Always remember, it's not how big
your antler is, but what you do with it that counts!
The players each control a different stag located on Antler Island. It is the breeding season and the stags
must attempt to mate with as many does as they are able (if playing with younger players, or sensitive
adults, the stags can be attempting to kiss the does). As the stags move around the island they will eat to
improve their condition, helping them grow antlers and fight! Only the strongest stags will attract enough
does to carry on their next generation.
When a player reaches 12 on the doe track (3 player game) or 10 (4 player game) the game will finish at the
end of the round. Points are awarded for does and position on the island.
A. Components
1 x rules
1 x board
2 x island layers
1 x 3 player island overlay.
12 x feet for island layers (4 spare)
4 x stags (1 of each colour)
14 x does ('doeples')
4 x control mats (1 of each colour) see Fig. 5
B. Set up
 
If playing with 3 players put the 3 player overlay onto the board (see fig. 2).
Attach the feet to the island layers and place onto the board (see fig. 3)
 
The starting player is the player with the most money on them (the
'dearest player'). They take the starting player marker.
 
The doe track markers are placed underneath the doe track.
Each player takes a control mat and places two antler pieces onto the
stags head. He also takes a set of control tiles (1,2,3 and X and blank).
Take 11 (3 player) or 14 (4 players) doeples and place them to the side of the
board. These will be the doeple reserve for the rest of the game.
Separate a 'starting pile' of food tokens from the stock (the remaining tokens will now be referred to
as 'the main pile'):
O for 3 players use 9 tokens - 5 x value 1 tokens and 4 x value 2 tokens
O for 4 players use 12 tokens - 6 x value 1 tokens and 6 x value 2 tokens
Outside Spaces
Middle spaces
Centre space
Marsh Space
(no entry for stags)
Fig. 1 The 4 player board.
 
 Shows
connected spaces
Fig. 3 Putting the
board together

Face down, mix the counters within each pile and
place the two piles to the side of the board (still
keeping the two piles separate). Keep them face
down. When drawing food tokens (at the start of
each round, or when playing the 'greedy' wily tile)
draw from the starting pile. When this has been
exhausted, start drawing from the main pile. When
the main pile is exhausted, mix all counters in the
discard pile face down to form a new main pile.
The starting pile prevents any 3 value food tokens
from entering the game early on.
Each player now takes a food token (from the
starting pile) and keeps it face down at the bottom
of their control mat. The player may look at the value on the token,
but may never show a food token to any other player unless resolving
an antler lock (see fighting C4).
Roll the die and check the colour. The starting player places his stag
onto an outside space corresponding to that colour. In turn order (clockwise from the starting
player), the other players place their stag onto the next available space clockwise which corresponds
to the same colour (each colour corresponds to four spaces with 4 players, and three spaces with 3).
Roll the die again and check the colour (if it is the same colour as the stag placement roll, keep
rolling until it is different). Place one food token (from the starting pile), face down, onto each
outside space corresponding to that colour .
 
A doe is now placed onto each empty space (i.e. without a food token or player's stag) except:
o the wetland spaces (in the middle section of the board), and
o the centre space on the Island.
The board should now look something like fig. 4.
The wily tiles (see C5) are mixed and placed face down in a pile to the side of the board. The top tile
is turned face up and placed to the side of the pile. You are now ready to play!
C. Play
1. Playing a round
Each player simultaneously chooses which actions they
will be taking that round by placing their control tiles, face
down, beside the available actions on the control mat see
fig 5. The blank control tile is a dummy and is provided
to help players disguise the actual actions they have
selected. The X can be played out of numbered order. A
player may choose any combination for their choices and is
not limited to one control tile per action. It is bad form to
look at other player’s placement before finishing choosing
your own actions.
Once all players have placed all five of their control tiles
the round may begin.
The starting player reveals their first action and carries it
out. They have the choice of revealing either:
their lowest available control tile (1 being the
 
 lowest, then 2, and then 3), or
 their X control tile.
Once a control tile has been used it cannot be used
again in the round. The blank tile is not revealed. Once a player has used his X he will no longer have a
choice on his next turn and will have to use the lowest available control tile.
A player must carry out his action if it is possible. If it is not possible, the player does nothing, but the
control tile is considered used.
Fig 4. Example set up.
Stags are on red. Food is on
blue. Doeples are on yellow.
Food tokens are
kept here (max 5)
Wily tiles
and broken
antlers go
this side
Antler pieces
are added to
the stags
head
Fig. 5 The control mat
Action
tiles go
this side
When fighting, tokens
 
are placed
 
here (max 3)

Play continues clockwise with the next player revealing, and carrying
out, their first action, and so on, until all players have completed all four
of their actions. This is the end of the round.
2. The Start of a new round
At the start of each new round (other than the first round) the starting
player marker moves round clockwise and then the players:
Take back all of their control tiles.
Move all doeples in the island one space directly up the hill
(doeples may go into wetland areas). There is no limit to the
number of does that can be in a space. Doeples at the top (centre)
of the island do not move. See fig. 6 for an example.
Roll the die and check the colour. Place one food token on each
outer space of that colour. A space can hold a maximum of 2 food
tokens. Do not draw for the space if it already has 2 tokens
present.
Check and see how many doeples are left in the reserve. Doeples
go onto the board in sets of three (3 players) or four (4
players). A maximum of two sets can be introduced per
round. Roll the die and check the colour. Place one doeple on
each outer space of that colour (a doeple and food token may
appear on the same space). If there are enough doeples for a second set, roll the die and do the same
again (if the die roll is the same as the first set of doeples, keep rolling until it is a different colour).
If there are not enough doeples for one set, no doeples are introduced that round.
Players now select their actions and the new round begins.
3. Actions
Move: The player moves his stag onto an adjacent space. As long as the space is adjacent,
stags are able to move up or down the island. Stags are too heavy for the wetland areas
and are not permitted to enter them (see fig.1).
If a stag moves into an area containing another stag there is a fight! (see fighting C4)
Eat: There must be a food token in the same space as the stag to carry out this action. The
player takes ALL (unlike the 'rut' action) food tokens from the space and places them face
down at the bottom of their control panel. This food becomes conditioning and is important
for growing antlers and fighting. A player may not have more than five food tokens in
their possession. After five tokens the stag is full up. If the available number of tokens is
more than the player can take, they simply take up to their limit and leave the remaining
 
 
tokens on the board.
Rut: There must be a doe in the same space as the stag to carry out this action. The player
removes ONE doe from this space and places it back into the doe reserve at the side of the
board. They then move their marker up one on the doe track (see fig. 2). When a stag
reaches 12 (for 3 players), or 10 (for 4 players) the current round will be the final round. A
stag may still rut beyond this number. If a player has reached the top of the doe track, they
simply keep any further doeples they mate with beside their control mat. A stag can only
 
 
mate with one doeple at a time regardless of the number of doeples on the space.
Grow antlers: The player may cash in any number of their food tokens to grow antlers.
The total value of the tokens is added together and then divided by two (rounded down).
The player takes this number of antler pieces and adds it to his stag’s antlers (see fig. 5).
Cashing in a single token is always worth one antler piece. Cashed in tokens are placed,
face up, in a discard pile beside the board.
Fig. 6 Above: doeples move up
the hill...
Below: ...and end up here.

e.g. Judi cashes in two food tokens with a combined value of 6 and receives 3 antler pieces.
Judi cashes in three food tokens with a combined value of 5 and receives 2 antler pieces.
Judi cashes in one food token value 1 and receives 1 antler piece.
When a stag grows to an even number of antlers (4,6,8 and so on) he receives a wily tile (see C5). This is
not applicable if the tile has already been given for that level of growth. It is possible to lose antler pieces
when fighting, so a player can reach, for instance, four antlers pieces twice. It is easy to keep track of this
by keeping antler pieces lost during fighting at the side of the control panel (see fig. 5). These are used first
when growing antlers.
4. Fighting
When a stag moves into a space occupied by another stag there is a confrontation. Only one stag will
remain in the space! The stags first square up to one another, but if neither backs down antlers will lock
together in combat.
A stags fighting strength is determined by antler size + fighting condition.
The sequence of fighting is as follows:
i) The attacker (the stag who moved into the space) chooses the number of food tokens (their condition) that
they are going to commit for the fight. They do not have to commit all their food tokens, but must commit
at least one token if they have one. The attacker may commit a maximum of three tokens to fight
with. They are placed face down at the top of their control panel.
ii) The defender (the stag who is currently in the space) then has the choice of retreating or fighting. If they
retreat the fight is over. If they decide to stand their ground they choose
the number of food tokens (their condition) that they are going to commit
to the fight. They do not have to commit all their food tokens, but must
commit at least one token if they have one.
The defender may
commit a maximum of three tokens to fight with. They are placed face
down at the top of their control panel.
iii) The attacker now has the choice of retreating or locking antlers! If
they retreat the fight is over. If they lock antlers the players turn over the
committed food tokens. Each stag adds the value of their token(s) to
the number of antler pieces it has. This results in a fighting strength.
The stag with the highest fighting value wins. If both stags have the same
fighting strength the result is a draw.
Possible outcomes
One stag retreats:
The retreating player moves his stag to a space without another
 
 stag. This may include the space that the attacking stag moved
 
 from. The retreating stag cannot move uphill unless there is no
 
 alternative empty space available.
The winning stag takes a wily tile (see C. 5).
Both stags retain their food tokens. The retreating stag must be
 
 heckled by the other players (chicken noises, etc).
Draw:
 The attacker moves back to the space they moved in from.
All food tokens committed to the fight are lost and placed into the
 
 discard pile, face up, beside the main stock.
One stag wins after antlers lock!:
 All committed food tokens are used and placed into the discard
pile, face up, beside the main stock.
 The losing stag immediately loses one antler piece from their stag.
The lost piece is placed to the side of their control panel.
EXAMPLE FIGHT
Red moves into the
same space as yellow.
He decides to commit
two of his three food
tokens to the fight.
Yellow decides not to
retreat. He decides to
commit all three of
his food tokens to the
fight.
Red doesn’t retreat. The stags
reveal their fighting strength.
Red has 5 antlers + 6 in commit-
ted tokens giving a total fighting
value of 11. Yellow has 4 antlers
+ 6 in committed tokens giving a
total fighting value of 10.
Red is the winner.

 The winning stag chases the loser away. The winning stag gets to place the losing stag onto a
 
 space without another stag. They cannot place the loser any higher up the hill than their own piece,
 
 unless there are there are no other unoccupied spaces.
The winning stag takes a wily tile (see C. 5).
In all cases, play then continues with the next player in turn.
A stag cannot win the game without having won at least one fight (as either attacker or defender)!
When a stag wins a fight for the first time (through the other stag retreating or winning after locking antlers)
he takes a ‘winning stag token’. It is not possible to lose this token.
5. Wily Tiles
Wily tiles can be gained by:
 growing antlers or
by winning fights.
When a player gains a wily tile, they may take the top face down tile or the face up one. If they take the
face up tile, it is immediately replaced by the next tile from the pile.
The tile taken is placed next to the player's control panel. If the player takes the face up tile it must remain
face up, otherwise, the tile is kept face down. Wily tiles are kept to the left of the players control panel.
A player may hold a maximum of three wily tiles. If they take a fourth, they must immediately reduce their
tiles down to three by discarding a tile (this may include the one they just picked up).
A player may play tiles at any point during their turn (some tiles need to be played when carrying out an
action). A player may play more than one tile on their turn, but may not play two tiles of the same type.
Used tiles are placed in a discard pile.
Once the drawing pile is exhausted, the discarded tiles are mixed and used to form a new pile.
The tiles:
Roar - Play at any time on your
turn (before or after your action).
Attracts one doeple from each
adjacent space. See fig. 7
Diamond antler - After locking
antlers and losing, the player may
use this tile to retain the antler
piece he would otherwise lose.
Rope-a-dope - After locking
antlers, the player may use
this tile to retain one of his
committed food tokens.
Speed - Played when carrying out the move
action, this allows the player to move two
spaces instead of one. They may not pass
through spaces containing other players' stags.
Greedy - Used when carrying out the eat
action, this allows the player to take an
extra food token from the main stock (in
addition to the food tokens gained through
the action). They must take, at least, one
food token normally to use the tile.
Rut your stuff - Played when carrying out
the rut action, allowing the player to rut
twice on the same turn. Remember, there
will need to be, at least, two doeples in the
stag’s space to use this tile.
Fig. 7 The player plays the ‘roar’
wily tile. He attracts one doeple
from each adjacent area.

D. Game End and Scoring
Once any of the stags reach 12 (3 players), or 10 (4 players) on the doe track, the current round will be the
final round. The players continue until the round is finished (when all players have carried out all four of
their actions) and then count their points.
If a player has not won a single fight (that is, they have not gained a winning stag token), they score no
points and lose the game automatically.
The points are awarded as follows:
The doe track:
 1 point for each doe mated with (shown by the doe track + any extra
doeples collected after reaching the top of the track).
Final position on the island: (see fig. 8)
3 points for being in the centre,
1 point for being on a space in the middle part of the island
No points are awarded for being on an outside space.
If points are tied the tiebreak is resolved in the following order:
largest antlers, highest up the island, condition (value of all remaining food tokens), player height.
The player with the most points is declared 'The Monarch of Antler Island' and wins the game.
The other players should engage in polite applause.
E. Advanced Game - Fighting Cubes (fighting experience)
Once you have played Antler Island a few times you may want to introduce the fighting cubes.
Set up
As normal, but each player takes cubes of his own colour:
2 cubes with three players
3 cubes with four players
Cubes are kept in open view to the left of the player’s control mat.
Play
As normal but, fighting cubes can be won when attacking other stags.
Only an attacking stag may gain a fighting cube. Defending stags may not gain a fighting cube.
In addition to the usual fighting rules, when an attacker wins a fight (through the other stag retreating or
antler lock) they gain a fighting cube. They take a cube from the losing stag (who retreated or lost after
locking antlers).
From the loser, they may take either:
1 cube of their own colour (if they have previously lost a cube to this stag) OR
1 cube of the losing stag’s colour.
A stag may not have more than one cube of any colour other than their own. If it is not possible for
the player to take a cube (the loser has no suitable cubes available) then no cube is gained by the
attacker.
Scoring
As normal, but in addition,
A player scores:
1 point for having all of their own cubes.
2 points (3 player) or 3 points (4 player) for having a cube from each other player (a full set from the
other players). The player does not need to have any of his own cube colour to gain these points.
Have fun and good luck
Fraser and Gordon
(The Lamont Brothers)
Fig.8 Points for final
position on the island
www.fragorgames.com
Special thanks to Tabby, Judi, Sheena, Iona and Glenn.
Mark Higgins, Gery McLaughlin, Brian Robson and Ellis
Simpson for their continued support and advice.
Also, Steven ‘with a v’ Gladstone, Brian Stern, Ian Bothwick and
Keith Jones.
Game art by Judi Lamont Board art by Clare Hewitt