Death or taxes? Do we 
have to choose right away?
Paying Taxes
Lightning
 Electric discharge 
between rain clouds, 
or between a rain 
cloud and the earth, 
or between a rain cloud 
and an idiot with a kite.
A Bad Haircut
The perfect start to a 
bad hair day.
Atomic Bombs
The Italian physicist
Enrico Fermi succeeded 
in producing the first
nuclear chain reaction 
in 1942, at the University
 of Chicago.
Alfred Hitchcock
1899–1980, British-
born American director 
and producer of brilliant 
psychological thrillers. 
Right, Mother? MOTHER!
My First Kiss
Sparks were flying. Of 
course, that could have 
been the braces …
New Orleans
The Big Easy.
The Game of Hilarious Com par i sons!
Ages 12 to Adult
4–10 Players
WINNING THE GAME
Number of Players Green Apple Cards Needed to Win
 
 
 
 
 
8–10 
 Starting the Game
1. Place either card tray on the table. Set the box aside. 
2. Choose a player to be the ﬁ rst judge. 
3. The judge deals seven red apple cards, face down, to each player 
(including him or her self). Players may look at their cards.
Hold the cards in your hand like 
this so you can see the card titles.
 Playing the Game
1. The judge picks a green apple card from the top of the stack, 
reads the word aloud, and places it face up on the table.
2. Players (except the judge) quickly choose the red apple card 
from their hand that is best described by the word on the 
green apple card played by the judge. Players place these red 
apple cards face down on the table.
Quick Pick Option:
With ﬁ ve or more players, you might want to try the Quick Pick 
Option. The last red apple card placed on the table will not be 
judged and is returned to that player’s hand. If you snooze, you lose!
3. The judge mixes the red apple cards so no one knows who 
played which card. The judge turns over each red apple card, 
reads it aloud, and then selects the one he or she thinks is 
best described by the word on the green apple card. The player 
of the selected red apple card is awarded the green apple card 
played by the judge.
4. To keep score, players keep the green apple cards they have 
won, on the table, until the end of the game.
5. The judge collects all of the red apple cards played during
 
that round and discards them into the box bottom.
6. The card tray, and the role of judge, pass to the player on the 
left. The new judge deals enough red apple cards to bring each 
player’s hand back up to seven. 
7. Play continues following steps 1–6 until someone has earned 
enough green apple cards to win the game!
Apples to Apples® is the wild, award winning card and party game that 
pro vides instant fun for four to ten players!
It’s as easy as comparing “apples to apples”… just open the box, deal the 
cards, and you’re ready to play! Select the card from your hand that you think 
is best de scribed by a card played by the judge. If the judge picks your card, 
you win that round. And everyone gets a chance to be the judge!
Each round is ﬁ lled with surprising and out ra geous com par i sons from a wide 
range of people, places, things, and events.
 What’s in the Box
• Red Apple Cards – 749 cards, each featuring the name of a 
person, place, thing, or event.
• Green Apple Cards – 249 cards, each featuring a char ac ter is tic 
of a person, place, thing, or event.
• Blank Cards – 3 green and 7 red apple cards to write on and 
personalize your game.
• Two Deluxe Card Trays
• Quick Play Rules
 Setting Up
1. Open the red apple card packs and thoroughly mix all the red 
apple cards. Evenly distribute them in the four deep wells in the 
card trays.
2. Open the green apple card packs and thoroughly mix all the 
green apple cards. Evenly distribute them in the two shallow 
wells in the card trays.