Getting ready to play
The Aim of the Game
Antique Rome got the water it urgently needed via long
water supply lines: the aqueducts. Each player, as the
building principal, tries to make their aqueducts as long
as possible with the help of their master builders and
workmen and gain as many points as possible. However,
sometimes not all resources are available. Each new piece
of the aqueduct can only be built with the help of the
appropriate master builder because they supply the com-
ponents for curves, straight sections, bridges and double
curves.
Good planning is important so that the players close off
their aqueducts at the right time to win points.
Starting position for 2 players
(A and B)
Starting position for 
3 players
Starting position for
4 players
Positioning the master builders
One of each kind of master builder (with a curve, 
double curve, straight, bridge or joker) is placed in 
reserve (top right of the board). Beginning with the 
starter player, the players then take turns to place the
rest of the master builder figures onto any square of the
pathway around the board. Only one master builder is
allowed on each square.
Preparing the reservoir and workmen
Each player receives the water reservoir in the colour of
their choice and the accompanying workmen. 
If there are two players, each player is given 2 reservoirs,
the first is given the yellow reservoir and the blue
reservoir, the second player the other two.
Depending on the number of players, the reservoirs are
laid so that the side with the 4 outlets points upwards 
(if there are 3 players) or the side with 3 outlets points
upwards (if there are 2 or 4 players). 
The water reservoirs are placed on the board as shown
in the illustration opposite. 
(The black arrows show the number of outlets and the direction in
which they are pointing.) 
One of the player's own workmen is placed at each outlet.
B
A
A
B

Play passes around in a clockwise direction. The eldest
player begins. This player carries out an entire move
which may include the following actions:
Extending an aqueduct
Closing off an aqueduct
Points for a closed-off aqueduct
After the player has completed his go, it is the turn of
the player to his left.
Extending an aqueduct
To extend an aqueduct, a player carries out the following
steps:
• Choose the workmen and the appropriate master
builder
• Lay the corresponding tile
• Move the workmen forward
• Move the master builder forward
Choose the workmen and the appropriate master builder
The player decides which aqueduct he wants to extend
and chooses one of his workmen on that aqueduct. 
If there are two players, a player can choose any of his
6 workmen each move.
This workman must have a master builder in his line of
sight. This means that there must be a master builder on
the path around the edge of the board who is in a
straight line (horizontal or vertical) when viewed from
the square on which the workman is standing. 
As the workman always has four possible directions in
which he can “look”, there can be up to four master
builders in his line of sight.
The player now chooses one of the master builders in his
workman's line of sight, takes the corresponding tile from
the general stockpile and lays it on the aqueduct. 
Laying tiles
• The tile is placed in front of the workman so that it
extends the aqueduct to which the workman belongs.
• The tile can also be positioned so that it closes off an
aqueduct belonging to another player or one of the
player's own aqueducts. 
• A tile cannot be laid where it would join 2 aqueducts
with one another (i.e. no aqueduct can have a con-
nection to 2 reservoirs).
Playing the game
Note: free aqueduct components that are not connected to a 
reservoir can be connected to an aqueduct.
The yellow workman has a master builder in his line
of sight which means that he can add a bridge piece.
✔
✘
Note: it is only the aqueduct pieces on the board which are con-
nected to a reservoir which count as part of an aqueduct.
Individual tiles which are not connected to a reservoir do not
count as part of an aqueduct.

Moving workmen forward
If one or more aqueducts have been extended, all the
workmen involved now move to the new end of their
respective aqueduct. To do this, the workman is placed
on the edge of the tile which forms the current end of 
the aqueduct.
Moving master builders forward
The master builder who has been used is now moved
clockwise onto the next free square of the pathway
around the board. 
If, in doing this, the figure goes round a corner, i.e. is
moved over a fountain, the player must lay another tile
of the same kind. 
The player lays it on any free square, but not so that it
joins onto the end of an aqueduct (neither his own nor
that of another player). Should this not be possible,
because there is no such free square, an additional tile
cannot be laid. 
Note: The new end of the aqueduct may not necessarily be on the
tile which has just been laid. If, in laying the tile, a space is filled,
the aqueduct may be lengthened by several squares.
Red lays a double curve and puts his workman on the new
end of the aqueduct. The blue player's aqueduct has also
been extended by this move. The blue workman is also placed
at the new end of his aqueduct.
Special cases when extending an aqueduct 
Compulsory turn
If a player can move one of his own workmen in
accordance with the rules, the player must do this. 
In this case another player's workman must be
chosen who does have a master builder in his line
of sight, even if this is to the first player's disadvan-
tage.
No master builder in line of sight
If, however, no player has a workman with a mas-
ter builder in his line of sight, no tile is placed in
this go. Instead, any master builder is moved 
clockwise to the next free square of the pathway
around the board. If, in doing this, the master buil-
der is moved across a fountain, the player is not
allowed to lay an extra tile. 
A particular kind of tile is no longer available 
If a master builder requires a particular kind of tile
that is no longer in the general stock, a player inste-
ad takes any other tile from the stock and lays it
accordingly. 

Closing off an aqueduct
After a tile has been laid, players check whether any
aqueducts have been closed off and if so, how many.
Closing off an aqueduct by means of construction work
If an aqueduct can no longer be extended, whether
because the adjoining tile does not extend the aque-
duct or because the aqueduct has reached the edge of
the board, then the aqueduct has been closed off.
In this case, it does not matter whether it involves the
player's own aqueduct or another player's. Laying
one tile may in some cases even close off several
aqueducts.
Voluntary closing off of a player's own aqueduct
If a player has not ended an aqueduct of his own in
his go by laying a tile, he can the choose to close off
any one of his own aqueducts (i.e. even if this aque-
duct could still have been extended.) 
Points for aqueducts which have been closed off
At the end of a player's turn, points are awarded for all
the aqueducts that have just been closed off, whether they
belong to the player or not. 
The number of squares which the aqueduct passes over
are added up. One point is then awarded for each of
these squares. 
If an aqueduct leads over a square for a second time, this
square counts for 1 additional point (2 points in total).
The starting tile with the reservoir does not count.
Winners' podiums
The workman whose aqueduct has just been closed off
is put on the podium with the corresponding number of
points at the edge of the board. 
If the podium is already occupied, the workman is pla-
ced on the podium with the next highest number of
points.
There is enough room on a podium for 1 workman,
with the exception of podiums “3” and “7” which have
enough room for 2 workmen each.
If an aqueduct reaches a score of more than 20, the
workman is placed on the highest free podium. The
player receives the number of points shown on the podi-
um; the rest of the score does not count.
If several aqueducts were closed off in one go, the work-
men of the player whose turn it was are awarded points
first. The remaining players' workmen then follow in a
clockwise direction.
Note: As the places on the podiums are limited, it is very impor-
tant to close an aqueduct at the right time.
Red extends his aqueduct but also closes it off because it can-
not be extended beyond the edge of the board.
Red closes off the blue workman's aqueduct by laying a tile.
One of the red player's aqueducts has been closed off. It pas-
ses (once) over 8 tiles and is therefore worth 8 points. The
workman belonging to it is placed on the podium with the
number 8.
The red player has closed off an aqueduct and scored 8
points. Unfortunately, the corresponding podium is already
occupied. He therefore has to put his workman on the next
highest free podium. Fortunately, two workmen fit on 
the number 7 podium.

The end of the game and the final round of scoring
© Copyright 2005 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany
Beispiel
Reserve master builders
For each aqueduct which is closed off during the 
current turn, the player whose aqueduct it is chooses a
master builder from the reserve for as long as there are
any. 
Beginning with the player whose turn it is, the respective
players take turns to pick up the corresponding number
of reserve master builders.
A player who has taken one (or several) reserve master
builders must place them on any free square of the path-
way around the board immediately before his own next
go. 
They are then immediately available to all players as are
all the other master builders on the pathway. 
The “joker” master builder 
One of the reserve master builders is marked with a
special sticker. If this master builder is used (by a work-
man in the workman's line of sight), the player can lay
any tile which is still available. 
If a player has no workmen left on the board, he does
not move a master builder and does not lay any more
tiles.
If no tiles are laid for a whole round, the game ends
with the player who laid the last tile. Points are still
awarded for open aqueducts, beginning with the player
whose go it is. The final round of scoring then takes
place.
Each workman gets the number of points corresponding
to his podium. The workman on the podium with the
Note: of course, the player can also immediately use this master
builder himself.
At the beginning of
play there are 5 diffe-
rent master builders
in the reserve .
highest number gets a bonus of 4 points. The workman
on the second highest podium gets a bonus of 3 points
and the workman on the third highest podium gets 2
extra points.
Note: Including the bonus, it is quite possible for an aqueduct to
gain more that 20 points.
The winner is the player whose workmen score the
most points altogether (podium score and bonus points
if applicable). If two or more players score the same
number of points, they are joint winners.
Example of a final round of scoring
„Blue“ – 
17 pts. (podium) + 4 pts. (bonus) = 21 pts.
+ 5 pts. (podium) + 0 pts. (podium) = a total of 26 pts.
„Green“ –
14 pts. (podium) + 3 pts. (bonus) = 17 pts.
+ 4 pts. (podium) + 1 pt. (podium) = a total of 22 pts.
„Yellow“ – 
12 pts. (podium) + 2 pts (bonus) = 14 pts.
+ 6 pts. (podium) + 3 pts. (podium) = a total of 23 pts.
„Red“ – 
11 pts (podium) + 7 pts (podium) 
+ 2 pts. (podium) = a total of 20 pts.

A game by Martin Schlegel for 2-4 players
Playing equipment
The pathway around
the board for the
master builders is 
38 squares long.
Board with 
84 blank playing squares
and 4 pre-printed 
aqueduct components.
The space for the 5 different
master builders who are held
in reserve.
20 podiums for the 
workmen who have 
completed an aqueduct.
They indicate the 
number of points gained.
• 4 starting tiles in the four players' colours – showing
water reservoirs on both sides with different outlets. 
• 17 wooden master builders – supply 
the workmen with particular 
aqueduct components.
• 1 set of instructions
Water - vitally necessary and essential
for the development of the Roman
Empire. 
To ensure that enough water was
supplied the most skilled master
builders built the aqueducts - the
most breathtaking constructions of
antiquity which spanned huge distances.
The master builders overcame the
problems of deep valleys and diffi-
cult terrain without technical
equipment. Compete against the
other players in trying to build the
longest aqueducts.
Outlets for 4 aqueducts; when
playing with three players.
Outlets for 3 aqueducts; when 
playing with two or four players.
• 84 tiles – with four different types of aqueduct compo-
nents: curves, straight sections, bridges and double 
curves.
• 16 wooden workmen in the four players' colours – build
the aqueducts
• 1 sheet of stickers – for the master builders. 
One sticker goes on the front 
and another with the same 
picture on the back.
• 1 board – with 84 blank playing squares and 4 pre-
printed curved pieces of an aqueduct.
English