CONTENTS
for 2 to 5 players, aged 10 and up; length 45 minutes
PREPARATION
●With 3 players, remove all animal and offspring tiles of two types from the game.
With 4 players, remove all animal and offspring tiles of one type from the game.
With 5 players, play with all tiles.
Note: do not remove dolphins, orcas, and sea lions.
Note: the rules for 2 players are at the end of these rules.
●Place the offspring tiles in the middle of the table. They have a circle on both the front and back.
Shuffle all remaining tiles face down.
Count out 15 tiles and place them aside in a face down stack for use at game end. Place the
round wooden disc on top of this stack to mark it as the reserve.
Build several face down stacks of any height with the remaining tiles. Players will draw tiles from
these stacks during the game.
●Place as many delivery trucks in the middle of the table as there are players. Return the
remaining delivery trucks, if any, to the box. 
●Each player takes a water zoo board and a depot board, placing both in his play area (the space
before him on the table). Additionally, each player takes 2 large and 2 small expansion boards,
which he places face down in his play area.
Return unneeded boards to the box.
●Each player takes 1 coin, placing it in his play area. Place the remaining coins on the table as a
supply (the bank).
●Place the coworkers as a supply on the table.
●The players choose a starting player using the method they prefer.
OVERVIEW
Each player is the owner of a water zoo. Each player tries to lure as many visitors as possible into his water zoo and earns points for the visitors that
visit his zoo. To create a zoo that people want to visit, a player must collect animals. When a player’s water zoo is successful, he may want to expand
it. When a player’s animal basins are full, he must place additional animals into his depot, which loses him points at game end. When a player makes
skillful use of his coworkers, he can gain additional points. The player with most points wins.
16 offspring tiles
88 animal tiles 10 coin tiles 30 coins
(2 each of 8 animal types) (11 each of 8 animal types) 
5 water zoo boards 10 small expansion boards 1 round wooden disc 
10 large expansion boards 
Before the first game, carefully remove the tiles
from their frames.
Each player takes 1 coin, 1 water zoo board, 
1 depot board, 2 small expansion boards, and 2 large
expansion boards, placing them in his play area.
A small expansion board with 3 spaces and a large 
expansion board with 4 spaces for animal tiles. 
A depot board for all surplus tiles.
16 coworkers
5 delivery trucks
5 depot boards
A water zoo with 19 spaces for animal tiles (on the board the
corners of the spaces have bright crosses).
In addition, there are 2 checkout booths and 2 feeding stations.

PLAYING THE GAME
The game is played over several rounds
On a player’s turn, he must perform one of the following three actions:
A. add a tile to a delivery truck or
B. take a delivery truck, ending the round for the player or
C. carry out a money action.
Play continues in clockwise order.
When all players have taken a delivery truck, the round ends and another begins.
A. ADD A TILE TO A DELIVERY TRUCK
The player draws the top-most tile from any stack and places it face up in an empty place on any delivery truck 
in the middle of the table (not any already taken by a player). That is his entire turn.
There can be at most 3 tiles on a delivery truck. If all delivery trucks in the middle of the table have 3 tiles, the play may not take this action.
He must take action B or C.
Note: a player may only take tiles from the stack with the wood disc when all other stacks have been used!
B. TAKE A TRANSPORT WAGON, ENDING THE ROUND FOR THE PLAYER
The player takes any delivery truck from the middle of the table, placing it and the tiles on it in his play area. 
He then, immediately, places the tiles from the delivery truck in his water zoo.
Note: the player may only take a delivery truck that has at least 1 tile on it!
After a player has taken a delivery truck, he takes no more turns in this round. He will again take turns as normal in the next round. 
Any player who has taken a delivery truck in this round keeps it in his play area. This way, everyone can immediately see who has taken 
a delivery truck in this round. 
When the player places tiles in his water zoo, he must follow these rules:
●Animal tiles
When the player has empty space in his water zoo, he may place the animal tile on an empty space and so begin a
new basin or enlarge an existing basin. 
Otherwise, the player must place the animal tile in his depot.
A basin consists of all neighboring tiles of the same animal type.
Each basin can have tiles of only one animal type.
➡ Start a new basin
If a player has no tiles of the animal type he is placing, he may start a new basin.
In order to start a new basin, the player places the tile on an empty space in his water zoo. 
It must be at least 1 space away (not adjacent to tiles) from any other basin.
Note: two tiles that touch only at their corners are not considered to be adjacent.
Important: the player is limited in the number of basins he has in his water zoo.
At the beginning a player may have only 3 basins. He can, thus, have at most 3 different animal types
in his water zoo.
For each large expansion board he adds to his water zoo, he can have 1 additional basin with one addi-
tional animal type.
The rules for adding expansion boards are described under "C. Carry out a money action".
➡ Enlarge an existing basin
If the player already has a basin with this animal type, he must place the new animal tile either horizontally
or vertically adjacent to another tile of that same animal types. Thus, he enlarges the basin.
When enlarging a basin, it must keep the rule of being at least 1 space away from all other basins.
When a player enlarges a basin to 3, 6, 9, or 12 tiles, he takes in each case 1 coin as a bonus.
When he enlarges a basin to 5 or 10 tiles, he takes in each case 1 coworker as a bonus.
The coin and coworker bonuses are also explained in the paragraph "special situations".
➡ Place a tile in his depot
If the player cannot or does not want to put the tile in his water zoo, he must place it in his depot. If there is
already a tile (or more) in the depot, the player places the new tile on top, making a stack in his depot.
In a player’s depot, any number of different animal types may be stacked on top of each other. The limitation
for the number of different animal types does not apply to the depot.
Claus already has a basin with 3 dol-
phins and wants to begin an Orca
basin. He may not put an Orca tile on
the spaces marked with an "x",
because each basin must have at
least one space distance to another.
These tiles are not adjacent.

The players may look at the tiles in all players’ depots at any time.
The order of the tiles in a player’s depot may never be changed!
Note: a player may put tiles in his depot, if he wants, even 
if there are empty spaces in his water zoo.
●Coin tiles
A player places coin tiles with his other coins.
A coin tile is a coin - it has no game difference from a coin.
C. CARRY OUT A MONEY ACTION
The player may take one of the following actions, when he pays for it. 
He can pay for the action with coins or coin tiles in any combination.
The following money actions are possible:
I. Move
II. Purchase or discard a tile
III. Expand the water zoo 
/
With these actions, the placing rules must also be followed.
Note: On a turn, a player may only take one money action. Thus, in order to make extensive changes in
his water zoo, a player may have to use money actions on several turns.
I. Move
A move costs 1 coin, paid from a player’s supply to the bank.
The player moves the top-most animal tile from his depot into his water zoo or he moves one his
coworkers.
II. Purchase or discard a tile
For 2 coins, a player can buy a tile from a fellow player or discard the top-most tile from his depot.
➡Purchase
The player takes the top-most tile from the depot of a fellow player and places it in his 
own water zoo, and
he pays 1 coin to the fellow player and
he pays 1 coin to the bank.
Note: the fellow player may not block the purchase.
➡Discard 
The player discards the top-most tile from his depot. He returns it to the box.
He pays 2 coins to the bank.
III. Expand the water zoo
The large expansion board costs 2 coins, which the player pays to the bank. 
Then, the player adds a large expansion board (with 4 spaces) to his water zoo. 
This allows him to have 1 additional basin in his water zoo.
Thus, a player can accommodate two additional animal types in its water zoo with two
large expansion boards.
Note: the player need not start the additional basin on the expansion board.
The small expansion board costs 1 coin, which the player pays to the bank. Then, the
player adds a small expansion board (with 3 spaces) to his water zoo. This does not
allow him to add an additional basin.
The player places the expansion board adjacent to his water zoo, either to his original board or to a
previously placed expansion board. It is now part of his water zoo.
He must place the expansion board so that it continues at least one row or column of his water zoo.
END OF A ROUND
When each player has taken a delivery truck, the round ends.
The players place the empty delivery trucks in the middle of the table and start a new round with the
player who last took a delivery truck starting the new round.
Note: Even if all players but one have taken
delivery trucks, this player may continue to
take consecutive turns until he finally takes 
the last delivery truck.

SPECIAL SITUATIONS:
Offspring
There are 2 fertile females and 2 fertile males for each animal type - marked with the common symbols for male and female.
When a fertile pair is in the same basin, they immediately produce an offspring. The player takes the appropriate offspring 
tile from the supply and adds it to the basin. The offspring tile counts the same as a normal tile of that animal type.
If the player cannot add the tile to the basin, he places it in his depot. A player may not choose to abstain from taking 
an offspring.
Note: the fertile pair need not be adjacent – just in the same basin.
Each fertile female and each fertile male can only produce offspring once. Thus, for example, no offspring is produced in the basin where a pair 
that already produced offspring is joined by a third fertile animal. However, if the fourth fertile animal is added to the basin, then a new offspring is
produced.
Note: fertile pairs only produce in basins, never on delivery trucks or in depots.
Bonus for enlarging a basin
When a player enlarges a basin, he may earn a bonus:
➡When the player adds the third, sixth, ninth, or twelfth tile to a basin in his water zoo, he earns
immediately one coin, which he takes from the bank.
Note: a player can only have 12 tiles in a basin if he has one or more offspring there.
➡When the player adds the fifth or tenth tile to a basin in his water zoo, he earns immediately one
coworker, which he takes from the supply.
The player must use the coworker immediately in one of the four possible areas. At game end, players
may earn extra points for their coworkers.
The player receives the bonus, even if he adds several tiles to a basin at the same time. When a player,
for example adds the 3rd and 4th tile at the same time, he earns a coin. Had he also added a 5th tile,
he would also earn a coworker.
A. Cashier
The player places the coworker on an empty checkout booth on the lower left of his water zoo.
He can have at most two cashiers.
With a cashier the player earns points for the coins which he has at game end. For each coin, the
player earns 1 point. If a player has 2 cashiers, he earns 2 points per coin.
Note: the player keeps the coins; he does not exchange them for the points.
B. Keeper
The player places the coworker on an empty feeding station on the lower left of his water zoo.
He can have at most two keepers.
With a keeper, the player earns points for the animal tiles in his water zoo, which have a fish symbol
on them at the game end. For each tile with a fish symbol, he earns 1 point. If a player has 
2 keepers, he earns 2 points per tile with a fish symbol.
Note: there are fish symbols only on polar bears, penguins, turtles, crocodiles, and hippopotamu-
ses. For each of these animal types, 6 tiles have the symbol. 
C. Trainer
The player places the coworker on any empty space in his water zoo. 
A space with a trainer is no longer considered empty. The player may have as many trainers as he chooses.
With a trainer, the player earns points at game end for Dolphins, Orcas, and Sea lions, that are hori-
zontally, vertically, or diagonally adjacent to the space with the trainer. For each such tile adjacent to
a trainer, the player earns 1 point. If such a tile is adjacent to several trainers, the players scores
points for each one.
On two each Dolphins, Orcas, and Sea Lions tiles, there is a lightning bolt. For these tiles, the
player earns no points for trainers.
D. Manager
The player places the coworker on the lower right of his depot board.
He may have at most one manager.
At game end, the manager halves the minus points for the tiles in the depot.
Move coworkers
If the player wants to use a cash action to move a coworker, he may move him either within an area or
into another area. He can, for example, make the manager a trainer, by moving a coworker from his
depot to an empty space in his water zoo. He could also move a trainer from where he is to another
empty space in his water zoo.
= +1/+2
= +1/+2
= –2
Example of trainer
points: for the left trai-
ner, the player earns 3
points (2 points for the
two Orcas above and 1
point for the left Dol-
phin. For the right trainer, the
player earns 5 points (4 for the
Orcas and 1 for the Dolphin).
The two Orcas above left and the 
Dolphin score points with both trainers.
The Dolphin with the lightning bolt scores no trainer
points.
The male Dolphin at the bottom scores no trainer
points, as he is not adjacent to either trainer.
A 
A 
B 
B 
D 
C
C

VARIANT AQUARETTO WITH ZOOLORETTO for 2 to 5 players
Note: this variant is best played by players with experience with both Zoo-
loretto and Aquaretto.
The material from both Aquaretto and Zooloretto basic set is used.
For the preparation, use the following:
● Place only as many trucks in the middle as there are players in the game 
(exception: with 2 players use 3 trucks).
● Each player takes only 2 coins.
Follow all other preparation instructions as written in the rules for both
games. That means, each player takes a zoo board, and a zoo expansion
board, and a water zoo board, a depot, and 4 expansion boards. With fewer
than 5 players, remove the recommended animal tiles from both games.
Shuffle the tiles from the two games separately and build separate stacks
with them. 
Also, create two separate 15 tile stacks for the game end: one with 15 Zoo-
loretto tiles and one with 15 Aquaretto tiles.
When playing the game, use the following:
A. Add a tile to a delivery truck
Placing tiles on trucks has the following restrictions: 
1) on each truck, players may place either only Zooloretto tiles or only Aqua-
retto tiles. When a player places the first tile on a truck in a round, he deter-
mines which game’s tiles will be placed on that truck in this round.
2) in each round, at least one truck must have Zooloretto tiles and at least
one truck must have Aquaretto tiles. 
So, for example, if all trucks, but one already have Zooloretto tiles on them,
players may only place Aquaretto tiles on the last truck.
B. Take a delivery truck, ending the round for the player
Taking a truck has the following restriction:
Important: In each round, a player may not take the first truck until at least
one truck has Zooloretto tile(s) and at least one truck has Aquaretto tile(s). 
Players may only place Zooloretto tiles in the zoo and 
Aquaretto tiles in the water zoo or depot. The normal rules for placing tiles
apply.
Players keep all their coins and coin tiles together. When using coins and
coin tiles, it matters not which game they came from.
C. Carry out a money action
When a player chooses this action, he may only take a money action in his
zoo or in his water zoo.
GAME END
When a player draws the first tile from one of the two stacks with the woo-
den discs, the remaining tiles from this stack are removed from the game at
the end of the current round. Starting with the following round, players only
draw tiles from the other game.
Note: then, also the restrictions for placing tiles and taking the first truck, are
removed.
When a player draws the first tile of the second stack with the wooden disc,
the current round is played as normal to the end. When each player has
taken a delivery truck in this round the game ends and the players do the
final scoring.
SCORING
The water zoo and the depot are scored according to the rules as written in
Aquaretto. However, apply the following exception: if the player has one or
two cashiers, he receives the total points for all the coins he has, regardless
of which game they come from.
The zoo and barn are scored according to the rules as written in Zooloretto.
However, apply the following exception: if the player has a manager in his
water zoo, he get only -1 point for each animal type in the barn.
Each player adds the results from the two games.
The player with the most points is the winner. Ties resolved as above.
RULES FOR 2 PLAYERS
Use the previously described rules with the following changes:
● Remove the tiles for 3 animals types and their offspring from the game.
●Place 3 delivery trucks in the middle of the table.
Now take any 3 of the removed tiles and use them to block some places
on the delivery trucks: place one tile face down on one space of one truck
and place two tiles face down on two spaces of a second truck.
During each turn, each player may still only take one delivery truck and it
must have at least one face up tile on it.
Note: when a player takes a delivery truck, he takes only the face up tiles
from the truck. The face down remain on the truck throughout the game.
When both players have taken a truck, the round ends and the players
remove the face up tiles from the untaken truck from the game.
TACTIC HINTS: By stacking the tiles in the depot, a player can lose a lot of
points as with the barn in Zooloretto. A player who delays the taking of a
delivery truck, can usually acquire many tiles. However, the player often gets
tiles he does not want in this way. 
The way a player places the tiles he gets will determine how large a basin
can become and how many animals will have space in it. When a player plans
the use of his space well, he will be more successful than one who does not. 
Each animal tile is worth only one point at game end. Therefore, coworkers
are particularly important, because they can earn many additional points.
GAME END
When a player draws the first tile of the stack with the wooden disc, the
current round is played completely to the end. When each player has taken
a delivery truck in this round, the game ends and the final scoring is perfor-
med.
Note: players may only take tiles from the stack with the wooden disc when all
other stacks have been used!
SCORING
Each player determines his plus and minus points for his water zoo and
sums them.
●For each animal tile in the player’s water zoo, he earns 1 point.
● To this each player adds his additional points for his cashiers, keepers, 
and trainers.
●For each different animal type in his depot, the player gets -2 points.
If the player has a manager, he gets only -1 point per animal type in his
depot.
Example: Claus has 3 turtles in his depot, but no manager, and gets 
-2 points for them.
The player with the most points is the winner!
If players tie with the most, the player among them with the most coins is
the winner! If there is still a tie, the tied players rejoice 
in their shared victory!
Author: Michael Schacht, Illustration: Design/Main
© 2008 ABACUSSPIELE Verlags GmbH & Co. KG, Dreieich. 
www.abacusspiele.de All Rights Reserved, Made in Germany.

A SCORING EXAMPLE
Q: All players but me have taken trucks. May I still continue taking
actions?
A: Yes, you may take as many as you wish and you can. But on each turn,
you have the usual 3 possible actions. You could, for example, take
several money actions or draw tiles, placing them on the last delivery
truck, as long as there is room there for them. Only when you take the
last truck does the current round end.
Q: Can I have several basins with the same animal type in my water zoo?
A: No.
Q: May I have different animals in the same basin?
A: No.
Q: May I change a manager to a trainer with the money action “move”?
A: Yes.
Q: I have trainer on 2 adjacent spaces of a Dolphin. Do I get then 2 addi-
tional points?
A: Yes.
Q: May I still take money actions after I have taken a delivery truck?
A: No. Not even in the last round of the game.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
For 6 Dolphins, the player earns 6 points
For 6 Polar Bears, the player earns 6 points
For 5 Sea Lions, the player earns 5 points
For 2 Hippopotamuses the player earns 2 points
For the 4 Dolphins marked with (a) and the 
2 Sea Lions, the player earns for trainer (A) 6 points
For the 2 Dolphins marked with (b) and the 
2 Sea Lions, the player earns for trainer (B) 
(Sea Lion (c) cannot be trained) 4 points
For keeper (D) the tiles marked with (d) 5 points
As he does not have a cashier, he earns for coins
0 points
2 different animal types in the depot (e) – 4 points
Total: = 30 points
If you have rule questions, 
please email us at RioGames@aol.com
ANIMAL DIRECTORY
Hippopotamus: this herbivore is related to pigs. It is the
second largest land animal and can achieve the amazing speed
of approximately 30 mph despite its weight, which can reach
10000 pounds and a length of up to 14 feet.
Dolphin: this pleasant mammal is considered by many the
most intelligent animal and is particularly noted for its acroba-
tic ability and its social behavior. The dolphin can dive up to
1500 feet deep for as long as 15 minutes before returning to the
surface to breathe.
Orca: this large whale can be up to 25 feet long and 20000
pounds. They prefer Arctic and Antarctic waters. This remarkably
successful hunter is the fastest well-known sea animal capable
of speeds up to 90 mph.
Sea Turtle: these armored animals have been paddling around
for about 200 million years, mostly in tropical and subtropical
seas. They follow the currents and, thus, range across large
areas. They leave the water to reproduce by laying eggs in the
land areas along their long sea routes.
Penguin: they are found primarily in the cold regions of the
Southern Hemisphere and are very well adapted to that life.
They are excellent divers, but are not fast swimmers. However,
they can maneuver well and at a high rate to evade predators.
They can also leap up to 7 feet from the water.
Polar Bear: this loner from the far north has a great sense of
smell and is very important in the traditions of the Inuit, who
call them "Nanuk". Despite its size and its weight, the polar
bear can easily float on the sea for as far as 40 miles.
Sea Lion: these very social animals form large colonies and can
be seen basking at numerous rocky islands in the sea. They are
not the fastest swimmers, but among the most acrobatic in the
water. 
Crocodile: these creatures can reach 20 feet in length and are
direct descendants of the Archosaur of the Trias. They are per-
fectly camouflaged and spend the majority of their lives in the
water, often only showing eyes and nostrils above the surface.
A) 
B)
D)
a) 
a) 
c) 
For more information about this and other 
fine Rio Grande Games, please visit us at
www.riograndegames.com
Further information on the author’s site: 
www.michaelschacht.net