Arborea
Welcome to the world of Arborea, where a cataclysmic event destroyed most of its former fertile lands, and scared all the creatures living on them.
You are a Patron Spirit, guiding your villagers to heal and regrow the landscape around them by sending them on pilgrimages to build your personal
You will regenerate forests, meadows, rivers... in order to create an attractive ecosystem for several creatures to make it their homes. Creating the
perfect environment for those creatures, while trying to satisfy the challenges each season will bring, will reward you with many Regeneration Points
(RP). Your actions will heal your lands, and if you manage to gain the most RP in the process, you will win the game.
Setup
1. Board: Place the board in the middle of the table.
2. Pilgrimage Track Tiles: Randomly place the 8 pilgrimage track tiles on the 4 tracks on the board (1), 2 of them on the outermost spaces on each
pilgrimage track. Make sure to place the tiles showing season icons so the space with no icon is closest to the center of the board.
3. Ecosystem Cards: Shuffle each ecosystem deck separately, and place them with the icons face up, over the top right side of the board (2). Place
them as in the image, so the ones with less biome requirements are on the left, and the ones with more are on the right.
4. Borderland Tiles: Randomly place 6 of the borderland tiles, each one on the top spot of each column on the borderlands (3). Return the remaining
borderland tiles to the box.
5. Season Tiles: Randomly place 4 of the season tiles, each one on a season spot on the board (4). Return the remaining season tiles to the box.
6. Biome Tiles: Place both pieces of each biome tile (5) on their matching ‘0’ spot on the biome reserve (6).
7. Creatures: Place the creatures over the top left side of the board (7), known as the outer regions.
8. Creature Counter: Place a sun counter (8) on the time track, on the corresponding spot according to the amount of players. Stack the other 2 sun
counters at the end of the track (9).
Player Setup (Each Player)
Randomly select the first player, and then:
1. Player Board: Take the player board and all the components of a chosen color. Place the 8 gift cubes on their designated space (10), the 2 elder
villagers (11), and a young villager (12) on your supply, and the other 2 young (13) and the 3 veteran villagers (14) on their respective reserves.
2. Spirit Counter: If you are the first player, place your spirit counter on the ‘0’ spot of the spirit track (15) on the board. If you are the second player,
place it on the ‘2’ spot. If you are third player, place it on the ‘4’ spot, and so on.
3. Season Counters: Place one of your season counters at the start of each of the 4 seasons tracks (16).
4. RP Counters: Place one of your RP counters on the ‘0’ spot of the regeneration track (17), and another on the ‘000’ spot (18).
5. Player Aid: Take a player aid card (19).
6. Starting Ecosystem: Randomly take a starting ecosystem card (20), and place it with the grid face up, nearby your player board. This is your
7. Starting Ecosystem Task: Starting with the first player, each player, in turn order, takes the first card on the leftmost ecosystem deck (the one with
3 biome requirements). Place it, on one of your 3 spots on your player board: it becomes one of your current ecosystem tasks (21).
8. Starting Workers: In counter clockwise order, starting with the last player, each player sends a villager from their supply on a pilgrimage track
(22), and moves that track one step towards the center (23). You may step villagers off of the track with this movement, as explained on chapter 5.
Note: Ignore season icons on the tracks when placing these villagers.

Game Overview
Arborea is a worker placement game, that uses time as a game
element. The board has 4 pilgrimage tracks (24), and each of those tracks
is tied to 2 different actions you can take, one shown above, and the other
one below the track (25).
During the game, you will send villagers on a pilgrimage on these
tracks. The tracks will advance, moving the villagers with them, which
represents the time they spend on their pilgrimage. The farther they
move, the better rewards they will get when you activate those villagers.
Once you decide to activate your villagers, they will follow a trail on
one of the actions, and you will gain all the rewards they move through.
Goal of the Game
1. During the game you will regenerate different types of biomes, which will be added to a common biome reserve all players can use.
2. You will need to spend a certain combination of those biomes, in order to complete ecosystem cards, which will give you rewards, and more
importantly, they will become part of your ecosystem, increasing its size.
3. The size and the habitats on your ecosystem will then become very important in order to invite creatures to your ecosystem, as they can reward a
huge amount of RP at the end of the game, if you place the right type of creatures on the right spots.
4. While working on all of the above, you may also want to prepare for each season and their requirements, which can also be a big source of RP at the
end of the game.
Actions
Each action has its main reward, which you will gain at least once no matter which trail you follow.
5 of the actions let you regenerate a type of biome: tree
, flower
, mushroom
, weed
, sponge
and water
. Doing these actions will usually also have the extra benefit of attracting creatures to the borderlands.
The other actions let you gather more ecosystem cards
, train extra villagers
, and invite previously attracted creatures
from the borderlands to your ecosystem.
Turns
Turns are played in clockwise order, starting with the first player. On
your turn, follow these 4 steps, in order:
1. You must either send a villager to a pilgrimage track, or advance a
pilgrimage track one step. You may spend 3 spirit to choose one of these
2 options a second time.
2. You may activate up to 3 of your villagers waiting at the beginning of
trails, although the third one will have a 2 spirit cost.
3. You may complete a current ecosystem task.
4. You must update the biome reserve, and advance pilgrimage tracks.
Keep playing turns, until a turn ends with the sun counter on the last
spot of the time track (26). Then, all players play two more turns (27),
and endgame scoring starts (28).
When a player causes the sun counter to reach the last spot of the time track, they take the 2 sun counters on this space (27). At the end of their next
turn, discard one of the tokens, and at the end of the turn after that, discard the last token, which indicates it’s time for endgame scoring.

Turn Step 1: Pilgrimage
At the start of your turn, you must either send a villager to a pilgrimage track, or advance a pilgrimage track one step.
Then, as long as you have enough spirit to spend, you may spend 3 spirit (moving your counter on the track 3 steps to the left), to choose one of
those options again, either sending a villager or advancing a pilgrimage track (you may repeat the same option or choose a different one).
Your spirit counter represents the health of your village’s ecosystem, and you want it to end as high as possible, as it will reward you with RP at the end of
the game. Performing extra actions will spend some of your valuable spirit, but it may have bigger benefits in the long run.
Sending a Villager on a Pilgrimage
Take any one of your villagers from your supply, and place it on the
square below the send villager icon on a track (29). You can’t place a
villager on a square that already has one, nor send a villager if you don’t
have any villagers on your supply.
If you place a villager on a square with a season icon (30), advance
your disc on the matching season track on the board (31), as long as you
haven’t reached the last space of the track yet. Seasons are a source of RP
at the end of the game, so keep an eye for these opportunities when
sending villagers.
Advance a Pilgrimage Track
If you choose this option, select one of the 4 tracks, and advance it one step, pushing both pilgrimage tiles towards the center of the board, which
will also move the villagers on top of them.
After a track moves for any reason (including during setup and on the 4th step of your turn), all players may take any number of their villagers off
of that track, placing them at the beginning of any trail (top or bottom) they moved through or to, where they will wait to be activated. Any amount of
villagers can be placed at the start of each trail.
If one of your villagers reaches the last trails of the track, you must take that worker off of the track and place it on a trail.
All players may take their villagers off of tracks simultaneously, but if a player requests it, follow the villagers’ order on the track, starting with the
villager closest to the center of the board.
Once a track has moved 4 total steps, the swap tile icon will be visible. When that happens, take the inner pilgrimage tile on that track, and place it
covering the first 4 spaces of the track.

Notice how the track moves 2 spaces on this example (images 1 and 2),
which may happen if a player decides to spend spirit to advance the
same pilgrimage track twice.
Red player decides to step off on a space the red villager moved through
(32), although the 4th trail is also an option.
Purple has to step the elder villager off of the track, as they have
reached the last trail (33), but decides to leave the young villager on the
track.
As the swap tile icon is now visible due to the track movement (34), the
inner tile is placed at the start of the track (image 3).
Turn Step 2: Activate Villagers
During step 2, you may activate up to 3 of your villagers currently
waiting at the beginning of trails. The first 2 are free to activate, but you
must spend 2 spirit if you want to activate a third one. You may activate
them in any order.
When activating a villager, follow the trail with that villager towards
the remove villager icon (35), gaining all the rewards you find along the
way (36), in the order you find them.
Main Rewards
Each action has its main reward, which you will gain between 1 and
3 times, depending on which trail you follow. Depending on the action,
these rewards are:
Biome Rewards:
You must increase the top half of the corresponding biome tile on
the biome reserve, once per icon on the trail. These biomes represent
recovered areas, which become available to complete ecosystem tasks. If
a biome tile reaches the ‘8’ spot, it can’t be increased anymore.
For example, as the red villager follows this trail (36), 2 tree icons are crossed
half of the tree tile on the biome reserve must move 2 steps up (37). The reaso
the top half moves will become clear later in this rulebook.
Ecosystem Rewards:
For every card icon you find on the trail, you may take one of the
exposed ecosystem cards (38). Place the card taken face up, on an empty
current ecosystem task space on your player board (39). You can only
have up to 3 current ecosystem tasks, and you can’t discard them once
taken.
Train Villagers Rewards:
You may move as many young (40) and veteran villagers (41) as
indicated by the icons, from their respective reserves on your player
board to your supply. If there aren’t enough villagers on a reserve, simply
move as many as you can.
Invite Creatures Reward:

For each of these icons you cross, you may take a creature from the
borderlands, increasing your spirit as indicated on the row where the
creature was (42), and placing it on the invited creatures space on your
player board (43). If there’s more than one creature of the type you want
to take, you must always take the bottom one (44).
Secondary Rewards
Besides the action’s main reward, most trails also have secondary rewards. They can be:
Attract a Creature:
Whenever you cross one of these icons, you must:
1. Advance the sun counter one step towards the last spot of the time
track (45). This will eventually cause the end of the game.
Note: Skip this step if the timer has already reached the last spot.
2. Take the creature shown on the icon from the outer regions, and
place it on the borderlands, on the topmost empty spot on its column,
gaining the reward printed on it (46).
If it’s the first time that type of creature has been attracted this game,
gain the reward shown on the borderland tile (47), instead of the reward
printed on the board. Remove the borderland tile after gaining its reward,
and place the creature on the space the tile was.
Note: Skip this step if there are no more creatures of that type on the
outer regions, or if there are no spots available for that creature type.
As you regenerate biomes, creatures are more willing to come back to your
villages
Improve your Spirit:
You may increase your ecosystem counter as many steps as indicated.
Send a Villager on a Pilgrimage:
You may send a villager on a Pilgrimage track, following the rules explained on chapter 5.
Refresh the Ecosystem Cards display:
You may take the top card from all 4 ecosystem decks, and place them as the bottom card on their respective decks. You must either refresh all 4
cards or none.
Gift a Sage:
You may give one of your gifts from your player board, to the ‘1’
spot of any sage (48), or move one you have already placed, one step to

the right (49) (unless it’s already on the ‘3’ spot). Each gift space can hold
gifts from multiple players.
Sage Rewards
When you reach this icon on a trail, you may gain as many rewards
from the sage of the action you are doing, as your current gift value on
that sage. You can choose any of the 4 rewards, in any order you want, but
you can’t choose the same reward twice with the same villager.
The bottommost reward of each sage is special (50). You can only
choose it as a reward if a young or a veteran villager is doing the action,
but not if it’s an elder villager.
For example, if you do the train villagers action with an elder villager, while yo
there is 2 (49), you may choose up to 2 different rewards, but you can’t choose
a young or veteran villager can gain it.
Each action has a sage, which increases the amount of rewards you get
when performing that action, based on the amount of times you have gifted
them.
Water Cost
If you are doing the water action, you must first spend between 2 and 6 spirit, depending on the trail you are following. You can’t activate a villager
on a water trail if you can’t spend the spirit cost shown.
In the extremely rare case you end with all your villagers waiting on water trails, with no spirit to pay for any of them, you are allowed to return
one of your elder villagers to your supply.
Remove Your Villager
At the end of each trail you will find this icon. Once you reach it, take
your villager from the trail.
If it is an elder villager, it goes back to your supply (51), ready to be
used again. If it’s a young or a veteran villager, they go back to their
respective reserves (52), and you will need to train them again if you
want to send them to more pilgrimages.
Turn Step 3: Complete an Ecosystem Task
On the third step of your turn, you may complete one of your
current ecosystem tasks. To do it, you must spend as many biomes from
the biome reserve, as indicated on the bottom part of the card. Each
symbol there, represents a biome you must spend. If there aren’t enough
of the required biomes to spend, you can’t complete that task.
To spend a biome, move the top half of the corresponding biome tile
(or both the top and bottom halves, if they are on the same spot), one
step down on the biome reserve.
Water is a wild biome, that can be used both as water, and also as
any other biome. You can only use water as another biome, once that
biome’s tile has reached the ‘0’ spot on the biome reserve, though.
In order to complete this task (53), you must spend 2 trees, 1 weed, 1 sponge a
You move the water tile 2 steps down (54), and the weed and sponge tiles, 1 s
(55). There’s only 1 tree available, so you decrease the tree tile 1 step (56), an
move the water tile one more step down (57), to cover for the missing t
Gain the Task Rewards
After spending the required biomes, you get all the rewards shown
on the top part of the ecosystem card (58). Once you have gained all the
rewards, flip the card, and place it on the completed tasks spot on your
board (59).

Turn Step 4: Update Biome Reserve and Advance Pilgrimage Tracks
You may have gained and not spent some biomes during your turn.
You will recognize them, as the top and bottom halves of those biome tiles
won’t be on the same spot on the biome reserve.
You must move up all the bottom halves of those biomes, until they
reach the same spot as their top half, and gain all the RP shown on all the
spots you move through or to. These biomes are now available for all
players to spend.
This is the biome reserve situation at the end of your turn. You must increase t
flower biome 2 spots (which will earn you 3 RP on the first movement (60), an
more on the second movement (61)), and the sponge biome 1 spot (which wi
earn you 2 more RP (62)).
Advance Pilgrimage Tracks
This step is the end of your turn. Check which of the pilgrimage tracks to advance:
For each of your elder or young villagers on a pilgrimage track, you must advance that track one step.
For each of your veteran villagers on a pilgrimage track, advance that track two steps.
Red player is finishing the turn, and proceeds to advance a track on which there is a red elder and a red veteran villager, thus moving the track 3 steps.
As explained on chapter 5, when advancing a pilgrimage track, push both track tiles towards the center of the board, and after moving them, all
players may take any number of their villagers off of that track, placing them at the beginning of any trail (top or bottom) they moved through or to.
Adding Cards and Creatures to your Ecosystem
After your turn has finished and the next player is taking the next turn, check your player board. If you have completed a task and/or invited
any creatures during your turn, you must first add the task card to your ecosystem, and then the creatures.
Growing your Ecosystem
You start the game with a single starting ecosystem card on your
ecosystem. Each completed task is added to your ecosystem, increasing
its size and the room for creatures to live in it.
Both your starting ecosystem card and all the ecosystem cards’
backs, show 6 habitats in a 3x2 grid. When adding a new card to your
ecosystem, you must place it so:
The edge of at least one of its habitats touches the edge of an
existing habitat (63), or
At least one of its habitats covers an existing habitat (64).
There are some other rules to keep in mind when placing these
cards:
You may rotate the card 90º or 180º in any direction (63).
You can’t completely cover a card. At least one of its habitats
must be visible at the end of the game.
You can’t place a card below a previously placed card.
You can’t place a card that would completely cover creatures
already on your ecosystem, but you can place cards that partially cover
creatures. In that case, keep the creature on the same position it was, but
on top of the new card (65).
Habitats on ecosystem cards match the biomes needed to complete the task. For example,
task requiring 2 trees and 1 mushroom to be completed, will have 2 tree and 1 mushroom
habitats once flipped. Everything else will be a rock habitat.

Placing Creatures
Creatures on your ecosystem can score you a huge amount of RP at
the end of the game, if you place them on the right spots (the needs of
each creature are explained on next chapter). Creatures are placed on the
intersections between 4 habitats. When placing a creature:
You must place it on an empty intersection (with no other
creature on it) on your ecosystem.
The intersection must have 4 habitats surrounding it, so you
can’t place a creature on the edges of your ecosystem.
You can’t place a creature orthogonally adjacent to another
creature.
The type of habitats doesn’t matter when placing a creature.
Any creature can be placed on the intersection between any combination
of habitats.
Following these rules, this intersection (66) would be the only one available 
intersections are either not complete, or orthogonally adjacent to an a
Once placed on your ecosystem, creatures can’t be moved, but as
seen
before, their surrounding habitats can be changed placing
ecosystem cards that don’t completely cover them.
If you can’t, or don’t want, to place one or more of your invited
creatures on your park, slide them to the left on your player board, where
they are kept in captivity (67), waiting for a better space for them on your
When placing creatures, if you have invited at least one new
creature this turn (68), you may also place one of the creatures in
captivity on your ecosystem (69). Be careful not to keep them in captivity
for too long though, as any creatures still in captivity when the game ends
will cost you 3 spirit.

Endgame Scoring
After all players, including the player who caused the end of the game, have finished their last 2 turns, endgame scoring begins. Score the following,
in this order:
1. For each creature you still have in captivity, lose 3 spirit.
2. The section your counter is on, on the spirit track (70). Depending on your position, this may make you lose RP (71), instead of gaining them.
3. Each season tile, from left to right (see ‘Score Seasons’ below).
4. Creatures on your ecosystem, in order (see ‘Score Creatures’ below).
After all players have done their endgame scoring, the player with the most RP wins the game. In case of a tie, use the following tiebreakers, in
order:
1. The player with the most creatures on their ecosystem wins.
2. The player with the most spirit wins.
3. The player who has advanced more steps on the season tracks wins.
4. Tied players share victory.
Score Seasons
Each season has a season tile placed during setup, which shows a
condition, and the amount of RP you gain for each time that condition is
met. Each season tile can reward a maximum of 8 RP, regardless of the
amount of times its condition has been met.
Season tiles will check your personal achievements on their specific
condition, so each player must calculate their own value. Once you know
the RP value of a season tile (which can’t be higher than 8 RP), times it by
your counter’s position on that season track, and score that many RP.
Repeat the process with all 4 seasons.
This season scores 2 RP for each Spiderant and Wiseowl on your ecosystem (72
10 RP, but as seasons are limited to a maximum of 8 RP, that season is worth 8
third step on that season (73), you times that by 3, for a
Score Creatures
Each type of creature on your ecosystem will score RP based on
their needs. Most of them will score RP depending on which are their 4
adjacent habitats, and some of them will also check which creatures
they can find following their intersection’s vertical and horizontal
paths in both directions. Follow this list (or your player aid card), to
score all the creatures of the same type, before moving to the next type.
Each Mushfrog scores 3 RP for each adjacent tree habitat.
Each Antlerworm scores 3 RP for each adjacent sponge habitat.
Each Grimster scores 2 RP for each adjacent flower habitat, plus 3 RP for each Mushfrog on their paths.
Each Tailcat scores 2 RP for each adjacent weed habitat, plus 3 RP for each Antlerworm on their paths.
Each Spiderant scores 2 RP for each different adjacent habitat (including rock and water habitats).
Each Wiseowl scores 2 RP for each adjacent mushroom habitat, plus 1 RP for every 2 gifts you have given.
Note: A gift on the 2nd/ 3rd spot would count as 2/3 gifts for this scoring.
Creatures double their RP, if they have at least one adjacent water habitat.
Note: Extra adjacent water habitats doesn’t increase the multiplier.

Note: Grimsters and Tailcats will check all the creatures they can find on their paths in all directions, even if the intersection icons on that path are not
complete. They will only stop searching when they reach the edge of a card that stops the path.
Scoring Example
This ecosystem would score as it follows:
1. This Mushfrog (74) is adjacent to 3 tree habitats, for a total of 9 RP, and this one (75) is adjacent to only 2 tree habitats, that would score 6 RP, but
is also adjacent to a water habitat, so that amount is doubled to 12 RP.
2. This Antlerworm (76) is adjacent to 2 sponge habitats and a water habitat, so that makes 6 RP doubled, for a total of 12 RP.
3. This Grimster (77) scores 4 RP because of the 2 adjacent flower habitats, and 6 RP because it can find 2 Mushfrogs following the vertical and
horizontal paths from its intersection (74)(75), for a total of 10 RP. As it has one adjacent water habitat, this amount is doubled, which makes it 20
RP.
4. This spiderant (78) has 4 different adjacent habitats, so it scores 8 RP, while this one (79) has only 3 different adjacent habitats, for 6 RP.
So, in total, this ecosystem would score 67 RP.

Icons Summary
You will find these icons on different places: on trails, sages, ecosystem cards, the borderlands... They always reward the same benefit regardless of
where you find them.
You must increase the top half of
the corresponding biome tile on the
biome reserve. If a tile shows one of
these icons twice, you must do it
twice.
Advance once on the season track shown.
You may take one of the exposed
ecosystem cards (unless you already
have 3).
You may move a young villager from your
reserve to your supply.
You may discard the top card from
all 4 ecosystem decks, placing the
cards at the bottom of their
respective decks.
You may move a veteran villager from your
reserve to your supply.
You may take a creature from the
borderlands, increasing your
ecosystem as indicated on that
creature’s row.
Activate a villager.
You must advance the time counter
one step (if possible), and place the
shown creature on the topmost
empty space on its column of the
borderlands, gaining the reward you
cover.
Send a villager on a pilgrimage.
You may gain sage rewards on the
action you are taking.
Return the villager to your player board.
You may gift any sage.
You may only gain this reward if a young or
a veteran villager is taking the sage reward.
You may gift the sage of the shown
action.
Spend one weed biome to increase the
water biome once.
Gain the amount of spirit shown.
Spend one flower biome to increase the
water biome once.
Spend the amount of spirit shown
(you must have enough to spend it).
(missing)
Complete a current ecosystem task.

Gain the amount of RP shown.
Update the biome reserve.
Advance any pair of pilgrimage tiles
on a track 1 space.
Swap the inner pilgrimage tile on the track.
Advance pilgrimage tiles, one step
for each young or elder of your
villagers, and 2 steps for each of
your veteran villagers on them.
Season Tiles
Score 1 RP for each gift you’ve given to sages
(gifts at spots 2 or 3, count as 2 or 3 when
scoring this season).
Score as many RP as your positive spirit value
(don’t score anything if it’s 0 or negative).
Score 1 RP for each advancement done on
all the season tracks.
Score 2 RP for each water habitat on your
Score 2 RP for each creature in the straight
path with more creatures on your
Score 1 RP for each card on your ecosystem.
Score 1 RP for each rock habitat on your
Score 2 RP for each different type of creature
on your ecosystem.
Score 2 RP for each creature adjacent to at
least 1 water habitat on your ecosystem.
Score 3 RP for each Mushfrog and
Antlerworm on your ecosystem.
Score 2 RP for each creature adjacent to no
water habitats on your ecosystem.
Score 3 RP for each Grimster and Tailcat on
your ecosystem.
Score 3 RP for each current ecosystem task
you have.
Score 3 RP for each Spiderant and Wiseowl
on your ecosystem.
Score 3 RP for each young and veteran
villagers on your supply.