game design - shem phillips & s j macdonald 
illustration - mihajlo dimitrievski 
graphic design & layouts - shem phillips 
 
copyright 2018 garphill games 
www.garphill.com

introduction
Architects of the West Kingdom is set at the end of the Carolingian Empire, circa 850 AD. As royal architects, 
players compete to impress their king and maintain their noble status by constructing various landmarks 
throughout his newly appointed domain. Players will need to collect raw materials, hire apprentices and keep a 
watchful eye on their workforce. These are treacherous times. Rival architects will stop at nothing to slow your 
progress. Will you remain virtuous, or be found in the company of thieves and black marketeers?
The aim of Architects of the West Kingdom is to be the player with the most Victory Points (VP) at the game’s 
end. Points are gained by constructing various Buildings and advancing work on the Cathedral. Throughout 
the game, players will need to make a lot of moral decisions. However, only at the game’s end will their Virtue 
be judged. A few underhanded deals here and there might not seem like much, but fall too far and you will be 
punished. The game ends once a set number of constructions have been completed.
35 Clay
components
aim of the game
40 Wood
40 Stone
25 Gold
10 Black Market Cards
“Small”
“Unpaid”
“Large”
“Paid”
22 Debt Cards
11 Reward Cards
6 Multiplier Cards
10 Player 
Markers 
(In 5 Colours)
30 Marble
100 Workers 
(In 5 Colours)
50 Silver

components
1 Main Board
5 Double-sided 
Player Boards
40 Apprentice Cards
40 Building Cards
Side 1: Standard
Side 2: Variable

setup
Follow these steps to set up Architects of the West Kingdom: 
 
1. Place the Main Board in the centre of the playing area. 
2. Shuffle all Black Market Cards and place them in a pile on the 
 left Black Market space, “Small Market” side faceup. 
 
3. Shuffle all Reward Cards and place a number of cards in a 
 facedown pile to the right of the Cathedral. This number should 
 be equal to 2 per player, plus 1. For example, 9 cards in a 4 
 player game. Return any unused cards to the box. 
 
4. Place all Debt Cards in a pile near the Guardhouse, “unpaid” 
 side faceup. 
 
5. Place all Multiplier Cards in a pile near the board. 
 
6. Shuffle all Apprentice Cards and place them in a facedown 
 pile to the right of the board. From the top of the pile, 
 reveal and place 1 Apprentice Cards faceup in each of the 
 8 spaces to the right of the Workshop. 
 
7. Shuffle all Building Cards and place them in a 
 facedown pile to the left of the Workshop. 
 
8. Place all Clay, Wood, Stone, Gold, Marble and Silver 
 in a Supply near the board.
20 Silver and 
10 Clay
=
The Main Supply
All the following items are considered to be 
unlimited: Debts, Clay, Wood, Stone, Gold, Marble 
and Silver. Players should use the Multiplier Cards 
if any of the above items run out.

 
	
 9. From the Supply, place 4 Silver in the space above the Tax Stand. 
 
	
	
10. Each player takes 1 Player Board (side 1 faceup, unless using 
	
	
 the Variable Setup rules) and 20 Workers in their chosen 
	
	
 colour. 
 
	
	
	
11. Each player places 1 of their coloured Player Markers 
	
	
	
 underneath the Cathedral and the other on number 7 
	
	
	
 of the Virtue Track. 
 
	
	
	
	
12. From the pile of Building Cards, deal 4 to 
	
	
	
	
 each player. From their hand, each player 
	
	
	
	
 chooses 1 card to keep, placing it facedown 
	
	
	
	
 in front of them. All players then pass their 
	
	
	
	
 remaining cards to the player on their left. 
	
	
	
	
 Players then choose 1 of these cards to keep 
	
	
	
	
 and pass on the remaining cards again. Of the 
	
	
	
	
 last 2 cards they receive, players must choose 
	
	
	
	
 1 to keep and place the remaining card 
	
	
	
	
 facedown under the Building Card pile. 
	
	
	
	
 Players can now pick up their chosen 3 cards 
	
	
	
	
 to form their starting hand of Building Cards. 
	
	
	
	
 Note that players are not permitted to know 
	
	
	
	
 what Building Cards their opponents hold in 
	
	
	
	
 their hands throughout the game. 
 
	
	
 13. Randomly choose a starting player. They receive 3 
	
	
	
 Silver from the Supply. The 2nd player receives 4 Silver. 
	
	
	
 If there is a 3rd player, they receive 5 Silver, the 4th 
	
	
	
 player receives 6 Silver, and so on. 
 
	
	
	
Refer to the Appendix for more details on 
	
	
	
Variable Setup and Solo Play.
Variable Setup
For a more variable game, all players should 
use side 2 of their Player Boards (randomly 
dealt or chosen). This gives each player a 
unique ability throughout the game. It also 
determines how much Silver, Virtue and 
other items they begin with. Refer to the 
Appendix for more information.

first time players
When playing for the first time or teaching others, there are 3 key concepts to understand:
1. Worker Investment - Each player has 20 Workers. Each turn they will place just 1 of these onto the Main Board. 
 As a general rule, the more times a player visits the same location, the more they benefit from it. 
 For example, placing their first Worker in the Forest will reward players 1 Wood. Placing their second Worker 
 will reward 2 Wood. Their third will reward 3 Wood, and so on.
2. Capturing Workers - While at the Town Centre, players can recruit locals to capture groups of Workers. This 
 might be because they believe that a player’s Workers are being greedy, or involved in shady dealings. Captured 
 Workers are placed onto the capturing player’s Board. On a later turn they can throw them in Prison, earning 1 
 Silver per Worker for their troubles. However, the targeted opponent can later visit the Guardhouse to release 
 them at no cost. This is the primary way of returning Workers during the game.
3. Virtue - A lot of choices will alter players’ positions on the Virtue Track. Ending the game with a lot of Virtue 
 will award Victory Points, while low Virtue will cause players to lose them. However, being devious isn’t all 
 bad. Sitting low on the Virtue Track allows players to skimp on their Taxes during the game.
Proceeding clockwise from the starting player, each player takes their turn in full. On their turn, players must place 
1 of their Workers from their Player Board to a chosen location on the Main Board. Players continue taking turns 
until a set number of constructions have been completed. Once this happens, all players take 1 last turn before the 
game ends. 
 
The number of constructions required to trigger the end game is determined by the Worker spaces in the Guildhall. 
Note that some spaces are only used at higher player counts, as shown by the 3+, 4+ and 5+ icons. 
 
Special Rule: If a player starts their turn with no Workers on their Player Board, their entire turn is spent returning 
	
 any 1 Worker from the Main Board to their Player Board. They do not get to place this Worker until 
	
 their next turn. The chosen Worker cannot be taken from the Guildhall, Black Market, Prison, or an 
	
 opposing player’s Board.
playing the game

placing workers
There are 3 different location types where players can place Workers.
Most locations show a large open circle. There are no restrictions for how many 
players may use the same location, or how many Workers they can have at a single 
location. 
Players may use the Town Centre action to capture from any of these locations.
The Black Market is the only location with smaller open circles. Only 1 Worker may be placed 
at each of these spaces. The only way these Workers are removed is during a Black Market Reset 
(explained on page 17). Players cannot use the Town Centre action to capture Workers from the 
Black Market.
The Guildhall contains several locations with the outline of a Worker. When placing Workers here, 
always fill from left to right, top to bottom. Workers placed here should be laid down on their side. 
Once placed, a Worker will remain there for the rest of the game. Players cannot use the Town 
Centre action to capture Workers from the Guildhall.
The Prison is another location where Workers can be placed. 
However, players cannot freely place Workers into the Prison 
on their turn. Workers can only be placed here using the top 
Guardhouse action, during Black Market Reset or by various 
card actions. Players cannot use the Town Centre action to 
capture Workers from the Prison.
A note to new players: 
Always be mindful of how many Workers you have in Prison. 
Having too many there during the Black Market Reset may 
result in you losing Virtue or gaining a Debt Card.

These are the 4 main resource gathering locations. When placing Workers at 1 of these 
locations, players will gain the indicated resource. How much they gain is determined 
by the number of their own Workers present, after placing 1 there. 
 
For example, on their previous turn, Yellow placed their second Worker at the Quarry, 
gaining 2 Stone. If they decide to place a third Worker at the Quarry on a later turn, 
they would gain 3 more Stone.
Note that opposing Workers do not affect how many resources a player will receive (at any location).
This location allows players to take up to 1 action for each Worker they have there. 
The available actions are to trade any 2 pictured resources (Clay, Wood or Stone) 
for 1 Virtue, or any 3 pictured resources (Wood or Stone) for 1 Marble. There are 
also several Apprentices who will allow their owner to take further actions here. 
 
Players may take the same action multiple times if they choose. 
For example, Yellow just placed their fifth Worker at the King’s Storehouse, they 
decided to trade 2 Clay for 1 Virtue (1st action), then 1 Wood and 2 Stone for 1 
Marble (2nd action). They also used their Merchant Apprentice twice to pay a total 
	
 of 4 Silver for 2 Gold (3rd and 4th action) and their Trader Apprentice 
	
 to exchange 3 Clay for 1 Marble (5th action).
The Mines offer a choice of Clay or Gold when placing Workers there. Players cannot split their workforce to 
collect some of each. They must either gain Clay (1, plus 1 per Worker) or Gold (1 for every 2 Workers). 
For example, if a player placed their fifth Worker at the Mines, they could gain either 6 Clay or 2 Gold. 
Note that a player’s first Worker can only gain 2 Clay, as at least 2 Workers are required to gain Gold. 
 
The Silversmith rewards 1 Silver, plus 1 additional Silver for each Worker placed there. 
For example, if a player placed their fourth Worker at the Silversmith, they would gain 5 Silver.
Quarry, Forest, Mines and Silversmith
King’s Storehouse

The Workshop allows players to either hire 1 Apprentice or work on new Building Plans.
Workshop
 
Hired Apprentices gain players additional actions or abilities. To hire an Apprentice, players must first pay 
a total of 4 Silver. 2 of these are Tax (red coins). Tax is always placed directly into the space above the Tax 
Stand. All other Silver is placed back into the Supply. 
 
When placing their first Worker in the Workshop, players can only hire an Apprentice from the left-most 
column. If placing their second Worker, they could hire from the first or second column. Therefore, if they 
place their fourth Worker, they can hire any of the available Apprentices. Players are reminded of this 
restriction by the Worker icons seen between the 2 Apprentice Card rows. 
 
There is way to hire Apprentices with fewer Workers than required. Players may place 1 Silver on an 
Apprentice Card to skip it. Any Silver placed must always be placed on the left-most card of a row, followed 
by the next card in the row if skipping more than 1 card.
For example, Blue has placed their second Worker in the Workshop. They want the Pickpocket, but 
can only choose from the first two columns. They place 1 Silver on the Woodcutter, allowing them 
to hire from the first 3 columns in the bottom row. They then place another Silver on the Swindler, 
allowing them to hire the Pickpocket.

After hiring an Apprentice, players should place them faceup in front of them. The empty space on the Main 
Board should then be filled. First, shift to the left any Apprentice Cards (along with any coins on them) 
currently sitting to the right of the empty space. Then fill the right-most space by revealing the top card from 
the Apprentice Card Pile. 
 
There are a few rules to observe when hiring an Apprentice: 
 
 - The 2 rows of Apprentices are independent of each other, but act the same way. 
 - Players cannot hire more than 5 Apprentices. However, they may discard Apprentices at any time to free up 
 space for new ones. Discarded Apprentices should be placed facedown under the Apprentice Card Pile. 
 - Some Apprentices have an immediate Virtue effect shown on the right of their card. Any Virtue gained or 
 lost takes effect when hiring the Apprentice. Discarding an Apprentice does not reverse this effect. 
 - Any Silver placed on an Apprentice is collected by the player hiring them in a later turn. 
 - Multiple Silver coins may be placed on the same Apprentice Card if skipped multiple times by players. 
 - Players are allowed to hire more than 1 of the same Apprentice. 
 
Refer to the Appendix for information on each Apprentice’s ability.
The second action available at the Workshop is to work on new 
Building Plans. When choosing this action, the current player 
gains Building Cards from the top of the Building Card Pile. The 
number of Building Cards they gain is always 1, plus 1 additional 
card for every 2 Workers they have at the Workshop. 
 
For example, Blue would draw a total of 2 cards to their hand. 
 
The maximum hand limit for Building Cards is 6. If a player has 
more than 6 at the end of their turn, they must choose to discard 
cards until they have no more than 6. Discarded Buildings should 
be placed facedown under the Building Card Pile. 
 
	
 Refer to the Appendix for information on each 
	
 Building’s effects.

The Town Centre allows players to recruit locals to capture Workers from any of the “large open circle” locations 
on the Main Board. For each Worker a player has at the Town Centre, they may spend 1 Silver to capture 1 group 
of Workers (of a single colour) from 1 location (up to 2 locations for 2-3 player and solo games). Note that the 
Silver from the first capture is Taxed (remember to always place Tax in the space above the Tax Stand). 
 
There are a few rules to observe when capturing Workers: 
 
 - Players may capture from up to 2 locations in a single turn with 2-3 players (and solo play), but only from 
 1 location with 4 or more players. 
 - Each capture requires 1 Worker and 1 Silver (the first Silver is Taxed). 
 - Players may choose to make fewer captures than they have Workers available at the Town Centre. 
 - Players may capture from the Town Centre, including capturing the Worker they just placed. 
 - Players can never capture from the Guildhall, Black Market, inside the Prison, or from another player’s Board. 
 
Example 1: Yellow just placed their 2nd Worker at the Town Centre. 
They pay 1 Tax to capture all 3 Red Workers from the Forest. They 
then pay 1 more Silver to make a second capture. If this was a 2-3 
player game, they could capture from the same, or different location. 
Since there are at least 4 players in this example, they must capture 
again from the Forest. They decide to capture both Green Workers 
from the Forest. 
 
Example 2: Red has placed their 3rd Worker at the Town Centre. 
They pay 1 Tax and 2 additional Silver to the Supply to make 3 
captures. They capture all 3 groups of Workers from the Silversmith, 
including their own. 
 
After capturing opposing Workers, players should place them on the 
top left section of their Player Board. On a later turn, they can send 
them to Prison to gain 1 Silver per Worker. When a player captures 
their own Workers, they are placed back into their own supply. 
 
Town Centre

This location allows players to take all the Silver from above the Tax Stand and 
place it into their own supply. However, this will cause them to lose 2 Virtue. 
Players are not allowed to place a Worker here if there is no Tax to steal. 
 
For example, if Red placed a Worker in the Tax Stand, they would take all 11 
Silver and lose 2 Virtue.
 While some believe in honourable, hard work, others will gladly take a shortcut to get ahead. The Black 
 Market has 3 spaces for players to place a Worker. Each space is paired with an action below it. Once a 
Worker is placed on a space, no other Workers may be placed there.
Tax Stand
Black Market
Reminder: Red coins indicate Tax. When paid, these must be placed 
into the space above the Tax Stand.
For example, the current options available would be: 
 
1. Pay 1 Silver and lose 1 Virtue to gain 1 Marble and 1 Stone. 
2. Pay 2 Silver and lose 1 Virtue to either: 
 - Hire any faceup Apprentice (and also gain any Silver on 
 the hired card), or 
 - Draw 5 Building Cards, keeping 1 and discarding the other 
 4 to the bottom of the Building Card Pile. 
3. Pay 3 Silver and lose 1 Virtue to gain 1 Gold, 1 Stone and 2 
 Wood. 
 
Note: Players do not collect or affect the Black Market Cards 
in any way when gaining the printed resources. They will be 
refreshed during a Black Market Reset (explained on page 17).

This location allows players to take 1 action for each Worker they have there. 
The available actions players can take are: 
 
1. Send all captured Workers from their Player Board to the Prison, gaining 
 1 Silver for each. 
2. Release all their own Workers from Prison, placing them back onto 
 their Player Board. 
3. Pay 5 Silver (2 Tax), or take 1 Debt and lose 1 Virtue to release all their own 
 Workers from other players’ Boards, placing them back onto their Player 
 Board. Note: Minimum of 1 captured Worker is required to take this action. 
4. Pay 6 Silver (3 Tax) to pay off 1 Debt. 
 
For example, Red could take up to 3 actions at the Guardhouse. They send 3 
Yellow and 2 Green captured Workers from their Player Board to the Prison, 
gaining a total of 5 Silver. For their second action they release their 2 Workers 
from Prison, placing them back onto their Player Board. They decide to do 
nothing for their third action. 
 
Players may take actions in any order they choose and may pay off multiple 
Debts in the same turn (Resolve each Debt action separately). 
When paying off a Debt, 
players should flip the Debt 
Card, keeping it in front of 
them. This immediately gains 
them 1 Virtue, plus additional 
benefits from any Debt-related 
Apprentices the have.
The Guildhall is where players place Workers to construct either a Building 
from their hand, or advance work on the Cathedral . When placing Workers 
here, lay them flat and always place from left to right, top to bottom. When 
playing with less than 5 players, not all columns are used. Note that the right-
most column is not used in this 4 player example. Therefore, the next Worker to 
be placed would be on the second row, to the right of the Blue Worker. 
 
Constructing Buildings and advancing work on the Cathedral will be explained 
over the page.
Guardhouse
Guildhall

constructing buildings and the cathedral
When constructing a Building, players should display the card faceup above their Player Board. Each card 
has various costs, requirements, rewards and effects:
Some Buildings will require players to have hired Apprentices with certain skills 
(Carpentry, Tiling and Masonry). In order to construct a Building displaying 1 or more 
of these icons at the top left, players will need to have at least 1 hired Apprentice with a 
matching symbol in front of them. 
Note: Apprentices used to construct a Building are not discarded.
All Buildings have a resource cost. In order to construct a Building, players must pay the 
indicated resources on the left of the card. All spent resources are returned to the Supply.
Some Buildings will show an immediate increase or decrease in Virtue on the right 
side of the card. Players must move their Player Marker up or down the Virtue Track to 
show this change.
All Buildings will either have an end-game or immediate effect. End-game effects are 
triggered right before final scoring takes place. All immediate effects must be triggered 
once the Building has been constructed.
The Keep requires all 3 
Apprentice skills, 5 Wood, 2 
Stone and 2 Gold to construct. 
 
Once built, it will cause the 
current player to lose 2 Virtue. 
At the game’s end, it will score 
12 VP, plus an additional 1 VP 
for every 3 captured Workers.
The Well does not require any 
Apprentice skills to construct. It 
costs only 2 Wood and 2 Stone. 
 
Once built, it will allow the current 
player to immediately gain 4 Clay. 
At the game’s end it will score 
3 VP.
Constructing a Building
When placing a Worker in the Guildhall, players can either construct a Building from their hand, or advance work 
on the Cathedral.

 Rather than pursuing their own endeavours, players may also dedicate some time and resources to 
 constructing the Cathedral. To do this, players should follow these steps: 
 
 1. Pay the indicated resources to the left of the Cathedral, 1 level above where their Player Marker currently 
 sits (all players start below the lowest level). 
 2. Discard any 1 Building Card from their hand, facedown to the bottom of the Building Card Pile. 
 3. Move their Player Marker 1 level up the Cathedral. 
 4. Reveal the top card from the Reward Card Pile and gain its benefits. Once resolved, Reward Cards are 
 removed from play. 
 Note: If there are no Reward Cards left in the pile, players just gain 1 Virtue. 
 
At the game’s end, players will score Victory Points equal to the number shown in the yellow flag to the left 
of their current level in the Cathedral.
Note: The cost shown here is 4 Stone or Wood, in any combination. Likewise, 
the 4th level of the Cathedral is 8 Stone or Wood, in any combination.
For example, Yellow currently sits at the bottom 
of the Cathedral. To advance to the next level, they 
place a Worker in the Guildhall, pay 1 Gold and 
discard 1 Building Card. They reveal the top Reward 
Card, which gains them 1 Virtue and 1 Gold. If they 
remain at this level at the game’s end, they will score 
2 VP for their work on the Cathedral. 
 
Important rule: 
Players can only advance their work on the Cathedral 
if there is an available space. In this example, Green 
could not work on the Cathedral until Red or Blue 
advance further.
Advancing Work on the Cathedral
( )

virtue track
Each player’s Virtue is recorded by their Player Marker on the Virtue Track. Any time players gain Virtue , or 
lose Virtue , it is immediately shown by moving their Player Marker up or down the Virtue Track. Depending on 
how much Virtue they have at the game’s end, they may gain or lose Victory Points. This is equal to the numbers 
shown in the yellow flags next to the upper and lower levels of the Virtue Track. 
 
There are a number of icons along the Virtue Track. Their effects are as follows:
For each Virtue players gain above 14, they may destroy 1 unpaid Debt they hold. Unlike paying 
off Debts, this action has no additional effects (no Virtue is gained or any Apprentice abilities 
activated). Any destroyed Debts are instead returned to the Debt Card Pile.
For example, Yellow currently has 13 Virtue and cannot visit the Black Market. If they 
end the game here, they will score 5 VP. On their turn they take an action resulting in a 
gain of 3 Virtue, they move their Player Marker 1 space up the Virtue Track. With the 
excess 2 Virtue, they destroy 2 Debts from in front of them. 
 
Red currently has 11 Virtue. They decide to steal from the Tax Stand, losing 2 Virtue. 
As they now have less than 10 Virtue, they may visit the Black Market on their next 
turn. 
 
Green currently has 1 Virtue and cannot work on the Cathedral. If they end the game 
here, they will lose 8 VP. On their turn they place a Worker in the Workshop to hire 
an Apprentice. Due to their position on the Virtue Track, they ignore both Tax on this 
action, paying only the 2 Silver to the Supply.
Once players have 10 or more Virtue, 
they can no longer place Workers in the 
Black Market. Should they drop below 
10 Virtue, this no longer has any effect.
Once players have 4 or less Virtue, they can 
no longer work on the Cathedral. Should they 
rise above 4 Virtue, this no longer has any 
effect.
For each Virtue players lose below 0, they must take a Debt Card. This is taken from the Debt 
Card Pile and placed with the “unpaid” side faceup in front of them.
Once players have 3 or less Virtue, they start skimping on their Taxes. For each “avoid Tax” icon 
at their current Virtue level, players may ignore 1 Tax on all future costs.

While the King may at times seem unaware of all that goes on in his kingdom, he will occasionally order 
checks to make sure all workers are held accountable for their actions.
There are 2 ways a Black Market Reset can be triggered: 
 
 1. All 3 spaces at the Black Market have Workers placed on them. 
 2. A Worker is placed in the Guildhall on 1 of the left-most spaces 
 on the bottom 2 rows. 
 
Regardless of how the Black Market Reset is triggered, the action that 
caused it should first be resolved. After doing so, the following steps 
should be taken: 
 
 1. All Workers currently in the Black Market are moved to the Prison. 
 2. The top Small Market Card (left) is turned over and placed on top 
 the Large Market (right).
 3. Players with any Black Market Reset based Apprentices may take their actions in any chosen order. 
 4. All players with 3 or more Workers in Prison lose 1 Virtue. 
 5. The player, or players with the most Workers in Prison each take 1 Debt Card, placing it “unpaid” side 
 faceup in front of them.
For example, Red just placed a Worker in the Black Market. As all 3 spaces are 
now filled, this will cause a Black Market Reset at the end of their turn. Both 
Red Workers and the single Blue Worker are sent to the Prison and the Black 
Market Cards are refreshed. Blue uses their Gatekeeper’s ability to release 2 of 
their 3 Workers from Prison. No players have 3 Workers in Prison, so no one 
loses any Virtue. However, Yellow and Red are now tied for having the most 
Workers in Prison (2 each). Therefore, they each receive 1 Debt Card. 
 
Should there ever be no cards left in the Small Market Pile to turn over during 
reset, take all the cards from the Large Market Pile and shuffle them to form a 
new Small Market Pile.
black market reset

end of the game
The end of the game will be triggered once the last Worker is placed in the 
Guildhall. The current player finishes their turn, then each player (including the 
current player) has 1 final turn before the game ends (1 final round). 
 
The 2 right columns of the Guildhall are not used in this 3 player example. 
Therefore, when Blue placed the last Worker in the Guildhall (bottom right), this 
triggered the end of the game. All players, including Blue, will have 1 final turn 
before scoring takes place. 
 
It is important to note that in the final round, players may still place Workers in 
the Guildhall. These Workers should be placed to the side of the Guildhall.
Once the game has ended, players should immediately resolve any end-game effects from their constructed 
Buildings. Note that all Apprentice abilities and board effects remain active during this time. For example, if a 
player was to gain Virtue above the top of the Virtue Track, they could use it to destroy unpaid Debts. 
 
Each player should then add up their score for the following areas:
Gain VP for all constructed Buildings, 
including end-game bonuses.
Lose 2 VP for each unpaid Debt.
end-game scoring
Gain VP for level of work done advancing 
construction on the Cathedral.
Gain 1 VP for each Gold and 1 VP for each 
Marble on their Player Board.
Gain or lose VP for final position on the 
Virtue Track.
Gain 1 VP for each set of 10 Silver on their 
Player Board.
Lose 1 VP for every 2 Workers in Prison 
(1 Worker on its own has no effect).

The player with the highest total score is declared the winner. In the case of a tie, the player with the highest 
Virtue is the winner. If still tied, the tied player with the most remaining Silver is the winner. If still tied, all tied 
players share the victory. 
 
For example, Red would score a total of 38 VP for the following:
From their 4 Buildings, Level 3 in the 
Cathedral, 12 Virtue, 2 unpaid Debts, 
2 Gold, 1 Marble, 6 Silver and 3 
Workers in Prison.
From their 5 Buildings, 
Level 2 in the Cathedral, 
6 Virtue, 0 unpaid Debts, 
1 Gold, 22 Silver and 4 
Workers in Prison.
Blue would score a total of 40 VP for the following:
end-game scoring
30 VP
( +4 VP )
( +2 VP )
( +1 VP )
35 VP
-4 VP
7 VP
4 VP
3 VP
1 VP
3 VP
2 VP
-1 VP
-2 VP

quick reminders
quick standard setup
resources/cards per worker
Red coins indicate Tax. When paid, these must be placed into the space above the Tax Stand. All other coins 
(non-Tax) get paid to the Supply.
1. Place all Black Market Cards on the left space.
2. Reward Cards = 2 per player, plus 1. 
3. Place all Debt Cards, Multiplier Cards and Resources 
 off the Main Board. 
4. Shuffle and reveal 8 Apprentice Cards. 
5. Shuffle and place Building Cards by the Workshop. 
6. Place 4 Silver above the Tax Stand.
7. All players start with 7 Virtue and 20 Workers.
8. Deal 4 Building Cards to each player. All players 
 choose 1 card to keep and pass the rest to their left. 
 Repeat this until they have chosen 3 cards each.
9. The starting player recieves 3 Silver. All other players 
 receive 1 more Silver than the player to their right.
This is triggered when a third Worker is placed in the Black Market, or when a Worker is 
placed on either of the left-most spaces on the bottom 2 rows of the Guildhall. Remember 
to send all Workers from the Black Market to Prison and refresh the Black Market Cards. 
Players with 3 or more Workers in Prison lose 1 Virtue. The player, or players with the most 
Workers in Prison each gain 1 Debt Card.
Tax
Black Market Reset
Mines
Forest
Quarry
Workshop
Silversmith
Mines
or
Want to add more variability and tension to your 2 player games? Read through 
the Solo Play Rules in the Appendix, along with the “2P vs Bot” Reference Card.

apprentice abilities 
building effects 
solo play 
variable setup
copyright 2018 garphill games 
www.garphill.com

apprentice abilities
Miner 
When taking an action to collect either Clay or Gold at the Mines, also gain 1 additional Clay.
Patron 
As an action at the King’s Storehouse, players may spend the resources on the left to gain the Virtue 
Acolyte 
When advancing work on the Cathedral, also gain the reward shown on the right.
Conspirator 
Spend 1 less Silver (not Tax) than required when making captures at the Town Centre.
Debt Collector 
When paying off a Debt, also gain the additional resources shown on the right.
Gatekeeper 
This player may release 2 of their Workers from Prison everytime there is a Black Market Reset.
Illusionist 
Do not lose Virtue when taking actions at the Black Market.
Jeweller 
When taking an action to collect Silver at the Silversmith, also gain 1 additional Silver.
Labourer 
This Apprentice has all 3 skill types.
Merchant 
As an action at the King’s Storehouse, players may spend the Silver on the left to gain the resources 

Pickpocket 
Gain 1 Gold when stealing from the Tax Stand.
Squire 
They gain the reward shown on the right, if they have no Workers in Prison during each Black Market 
Reset.
Stonecutter 
When taking an action to collect Stone at the Quarry, also gain 1 additional Stone.
Swindler 
When taking an action at the Black Market, also gain the additional resources shown.
Trader 
As an action at the King’s Storehouse, players may spend the resources on the left to gain those 
Trickster 
Pay 1 less Silver than required when taking actions at the Black Market.
Woodcutter 
When taking an action to collect Wood at the Forest, also gain 1 additional Wood.
Thief 
Lose 1 less Virtue when stealing from the Tax Stand.
Hire an Apprentice 
Black Market and Building Card effects allow players to hire any faceup Apprentice. 
Only the Workshop action is restricted by how many Workers players have placed.

buildings effects
Betting House, Clay Pit, Drafting Room, Factory, Lumber Camp, Smithy, Thieves’ Den, Treasury, Well 
The controlling player immediately gains the resources or cards shown.
Clay Market, Silver Market, Stone Market, Wood Market 
	
 The controlling player gains 2 additional VP if they have more of the resource shown on the left than 
	
 any other player (ties don’t count).
Gain Resources / Cards
Resource Markets
Church 
The controlling player may immediately destroy 1 unpaid Debt they hold. 
 
Library 
The controlling player may immediately discard 1 chosen Building Card from their hand to gain 2 Gold. 
 
Monument 
All players immediately gain 1 Virtue (Note that the controlling player will gain a total of 2 Virtue). 
 
Palace 
The controlling player immediately gains 1 Gold for every 4 Virtue they currently have. 
 
Tavern 
The controlling player immediately hires any 1 faceup Apprentice for free. 
 
Watchtower 
All players with 3 or more Workers in Prison immediately lose 1 Virtue (including the controlling player).
Other
Armoury, Barracks, Fortress, Hideout 
The controlling player immediately takes the action shown, in the same manner as it would be taken at the Town 
Centre or Guardhouse. Note: The Fortress may capture from the same, or 2 different locations.
Capture / Release Workers

Castle, Gallery, Reservoir, Trading Post 
The controlling player gains 1 Virtue (before scoring) for each item or 
resource shown on the right, that they hold.
Virtue Boost
Carpenter’s Hut, Mason’s Hut, Tiler’s Hut 
The controlling player scores 1 additional VP for each hired Apprentice they have with the indicated skill.
Apprentice Huts
Dungeon 
The controlling player loses 2 Virtue (before scoring, but optionally before or after any Virtue gains). 
 
Fountain 
The controlling player loses 1 less VP for each unpaid Debt. 
 
Gambler’s Den 
The controlling player loses 1 additional VP for each unpaid Debt (3 total per unpaid Debt). 
 
University 
The controlling player gains 2 additional VP if they have no unpaid Debts.
Other
Aquaduct, Keep, Lighthouse, Moneylender 
The controlling player gains 1 VP for every 3 Captured Workers, Virtue, paid 
Debt, or constructed Buildings shown on the right.
VP Boost
Chapel, Steeple 
If the controlling player has advanced work on the Cathedral more than any 
other player (ties don’t count), they gain the reward shown on the right.
Cathedral Contribution

solo play
Despite your noble efforts to finish the cathedral, the king’s patience has begun to wear. In his frustration, he has 
turned to renowned Byzantine architects, Constantine and Helena to complete the work. Your reputation is on the 
line. This is your last chance to prove your worth to the king. The aim of the game is to score higher than your 
opponent.
Introduction
Follow the standard setup as you would for a 2 player game (5 Reward Cards), with a few changes: 
 
 1. You start the game with 3 Silver and 7 Virtue. 
 2. Remove the 4 “Resource Market” Building Cards from the deck. 
 3. Shuffle all remaining Building Cards and deal yourself 5 cards. Choose 3 to keep and discard the other 2. 
 4. Give your opponent their Board, with the chosen difficulty faceup (Constantine = Standard / Helena = Hard). 
 5. Choose a player colour for your opponent and place all 20 of their Workers onto their Board. 
 6. Place 1 of your opponent’s Player Markers underneath the Cathedral and the other on number 7 of the 
 Virtue Track. 
 7. They do not receive any Silver or Building Cards. 
 8. Separate the 20 Starting Scheme Cards (brown header) from the 10 Future Scheme Cards (black header) and 
 shuffle each pile separately. Place the starting Scheme Cards in facedown pile next to your opponent’s Board. 
	
 Place the Future Scheme Cards in a facedown pile to the side of the playing area. You will only draw 
	
 these when instructed to.
Setup
Components
30 Scheme Cards 
2 Reference Cards
Location to place 
their Worker
Actions to 
follow
1 Double-sided Opponent Board
2P vs Bot
You can even add a 
Byzantine opponent 
to your regular 2 
player game (2 human 
players vs Constantine 
or Helena). See the 
“2P vs Bot” Reference 
Card for more details.

You will always take your turn first, followed by your opponent. Your turns function just as they would in the 
standard game. Your opponent’s turns operate differently. On their turn, reveal the top card from the Schemes 
Draw Pile. Each Scheme Card instructs you to place 1 opposing Worker in a specific location on the Main Board. 
Some locations behave differently for your opponent, as outlined on each card. 
 
There are a few additional rules to observe during the game. Your opponent: 
 
 - Does not collect or use any Silver, Clay, Wood, Stone, Gold, Apprentices or Buildings. 
 - Does not require any goods or Building Cards when constructing the Cathedral. 
 - Can always advance work on the Cathedral, or visit the Black Market, regardless of their Virtue. 
 - Collects Marble, but only for scoring purposes. 
 - Can capture and sell Workers (1 Marble for all Workers), but does not capture its own Workers. 
 - Can receive and destroy Debts. 
 
Should the Scheme Cards Draw Pile ever run out, simply shuffle all discards to form a new Draw Pile. If your 
opponent starts their turn with no Workers, do not draw a Scheme Card. Instead, return all Workers (excluding 
Guildhall and Black Market / including captured and imprisoned) to their Board and shuffle all discarded Scheme 
Cards back into the Draw Pile.
The game ends in the same way as a regular 2 player game (12 constructions). Remember that each player, 
including the player who placed the last Worker in the Guildhall will have 1 last turn before scoring.
Playing the Game
End of the Game
Add up your score as normal. Your opponent’s score consists of the following:
End-game Scoring
Unpaid Debts (-2 VP each)
Workers in the Guildhall 
Constantine (1 VP each) 
Helena (3 VP each)
Cathedral (? VP)
Marble (1 VP each)
Virtue (? VP)
Prisoners (-1 VP per pair)

variable setup
Ada 
Begins the game with no Workers in Prison, no Silver, 11 Virtue, 1 Gold and 1 additional Building 
Card (after the initial draft). She may also ignore 1 Tax on all actions throughout the game.
Frederick 
Begins the game with no Workers in Prison, 4 Silver, 7 Virtue and 1 Stone. He also does not need to 
discard a Building Card when advancing work on the Cathedral
Caroline 
Begins the game with 8 Workers in Prison, 10 Silver, 3 Virtue, 1 unpaid Debt and 1 Marble. She also 
gains 1 Building Card each time she takes an action at the Black Market.
Rudolf 
Begins the game with no Workers in Prison, 3 Silver, 9 Virtue and 1 Wood. He also pays 1 less Silver 
(not tax) when hiring Apprentices in the Workshop and may hire up to 6 Apprentices.
Therese 
Begins the game with 4 Workers in Prison, 5 Silver, 5 Virtue and 1 additional Building Card (after the 
initial draft). For all intents and purposes, she treats Marble and Gold as the same resource.
For a more variable game, all players should use side 2 
of their Player Boards (randomly dealt or chosen). This 
gives each player a unique ability throughout the game. 
It also determines how much Silver, Virtue and other 
items they begin with. The player with the most Virtue 
starts the game, followed by other players in clockwise 
order around the table. 
 
For example, Frederick begins the game with no Workers 
in Prison, 4 Silver, 7 Virtue and 1 Stone . He also does 
not need to discard a Building Card when advancing 
work on the Cathedral .
Note: Unlike during regular setup, players do not gain 
additional Silver based on turn order.