GAME RULES
&+ri6723+eBœlinger

A33 / 48
<oX can peUIoUm one mLJUatLon actLon 
ZLtKoXt spenGLnJ an actLon GLsc
EXPANSIONISM 
A01 / 48
RESEARCHER
5eYeaO tKe ILUst 5 caUGs 
IUom tKe eYoOXtLon 
GecN <oX ma\ pXUcKase 
a pUoJUess caUG amonJ 
tKese caUGs IoU Lts 
mLnLmaO cost 'LscaUG 
tKe otKeU caUGs
12 ×
10 ×
= 5ƒ
= 1ƒ
$0e&2032nen76
1 action wheel 
(double-sided)
2-4 players
Meeple: a game piece in the stylized shape of a person
12 trend cards
One rule book
13 market / port tokens
13 town / temple tokens
24 explorer tokens
An evolution track, with room for 5 evolution cards
Scoring track on 
reverse side
A domestic market board (I)
A colony stability board (III) with:
 one 
 to represent the colony population,
and one 
 to represent the rebellion level
A surplus workers board (IV) with:
 one 
 to represent the surplus workers level
An export market board (II)
5 player screen aids
48 evolution cards, including
 24 character cards and 24 progress cards
51 florin ( ƒ ) coins, including: 
 21 gold coins with a value of 5ƒ ,
30 silver coins with a value of 1ƒ
82 resource cubes
Character card
Progress card
Reverse side:
Balance of the 
archipelago
Exotic fruit
Wood
Cattle
Stone
Fish
Iron
5 players
25 region hexagons, each 
double-sided with a different region 
on each side, stored in a separate storage tray
30 secret objective cards, 
 10 for each desired game length: 
short, medium, long
5 sets of player pieces
4 ships
10 citizens (meeples)
5 Action Discs (AD)
1 turn order marker
per player:

Archipelago recounts the great Age of Discovery, an era of intensive exploration and colonization of the world by European explorers. T he game covers the period 
from 1492 (discovery of the Antilles by Christopher Columbus) to 1797 (colonization of Tahiti).
Each player portrays an explorer and his team commissioned by a European nation to discover, colonize, and exploit islands. T he mission is intended to be one 
of peace: to meet the needs of the local population while providing commercial returns to the continent. T he archipelago and its natives must be treated fairly or 
they will rebel, potentially leading to an all-out war of independence. A balance must be found between expansionism and humanism, between commercial goals and 
respect for local values, between knowledge sharing and unbridled industriali]ation. 6uch balance can only be achieved through each player’s commitment to make 
the archipelago a happy and productive colony. If not, the reckless exploitation of the islands’ resources and their inhabitants will ultimately lead to chaos and revolt.
To complicate matters, a separatist or a pacifist may hide among the players. One or the other will attempt to use his influence to tilt the balance away from equi-
librium and towards his respective goal of chaos and uprising or absolute peace. Are you ready to take on your discovery mission to the archipelago?
AME SETUP
1. Place the four boards (I-IV) at the end of the table.
2. 
 On the domestic market board (I), 
place 6 resource cubes, one of each color, in the corre-
sponding zones. In each zone, place the cube in the 
upper-left-most corner.
3. 
 
 On the colony stability board (III), posi-
tion the population marker and rebellion marker on their 
respective icons (both start at zero at the beginning of the 
game).
4. 
 On the surplus workers board (IV), position the 
surplus workers marker on its icon (it starts at zero at the 
beginning of the game).
5. 
 All remaining resource cubes, florins, 
market / port, and town / temple tokens 
constitute the bank of available resources, money and 
buildings.
6. 
 With the 24 explorer tokens, make 3 piles of 
8 tokens each, storing them in the appropriate 
spaces in the storage tray.
7. 
Assemble and place the evolution track next 
to the game box. Shuffle the 48 evolution 
cards, ensuring that they all have the same facing and 
orientation (this is very important). Place the deck 
in the storage tray in the space indicated, with the side 
showing the balance of the archipelago information 
(reverse side) facing up as shown.
8. 
Place the open sea hexagon at the center of 
the table.
9. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each player chooses a color, takes the player screen aid, 
1 ship, 2 citizens, 3 action discs (AD), and the order 
marker of his color. He places the ship on the open sea 
hexagon, being careful not to cover any fish icons, and 
places the other pieces in front of his screen, visible to all. 
He also receives 10ƒ which he places behind his screen. 
His other player pieces stay in the box until needed. 
10. Place the action wheel within reach of all players, 
with the appropriate side showing for the number of 
players: one side for 2 to 4-player games; the other 
side for 5-player games.

A44 / 48
<oX can peUIoUm a tUansactLon oI \oXU cKoLce on 
tKe domestic market ZLtKoXt spenGLnJ an 
actLon GLsc
A29 / 48
IRON MINE 
8rn0'i6&29ering7+e$r&+i3el$g2
Randomly decide the order of play for this 
turn. Each player places his order marker on the evolution 
track in the icon corresponding to his position in the order 
of play.
Shuffle the 24 region hexagons and deal 
each player 3 hexagons (providing 
6 different region choices).
Region: one of the two sides of a single hexagon
 F Initial exploration: In the order of play indicated 
on the evolution track, each player in turn chooses one of 
the 6 regions present on the 3 hexagons he has in hand. 
He then places it with one side adjacent to the open sea 
hexagon. Respect the continuity of the landscape: water 
touching water, fields next to fields, and mountains 
against mountains. Starting with the second player, hexa-
gons can be placed adjacent to previously placed hexagons 
as long as they are also adjacent to the open sea hexagon 
and respect landscape continuity on all touching sides, as 
shown below. If a player can show that none of his hexa-
gons can be placed, he discards them and draws 3 new 
hexagons from the top of the region deck.
Note: In later explorations (after turn #0), newly 
discovered hexagons will need to be placed in contact with at 
least two existing regions (see Exploration).
Once a player has placed his 
first discovered region, he moves his ship from the open 
sea to the new region, takes the first explorer token from 
tKe ILUst pLOeqcOosest to tKe eGJe oI tKe Eo[ anG pXts Lt 
behind his screen. Then two citizens of his color, 
taken from in front of his screen, disembark from 
his ship. Place both citizens on land areas, making sure not 
to cover any resource icons. The new citizens increase the 
population by 2 points: move the population marker 
 
up 2 points on the colony stability board (III).
Example: In a 4-player game, the population marker 
is at 8 at the end of turn #0.
Most regions contain huts. Whenever 
a 
player successfully explores a new 
region by placing his hexagon in the archipelago, he must 
increase the surplus workers level by the number of huts on 
the region tile, moving the surplus workers marker 
 
accordingly. Note: On each region (except the volcano), the 
number of resources and huts always adds up to 5.
Most regions also have resource icons 
corresponding to the 6 resource types 
in the game. When a player successfully explores a new 
region, he selects one of the resources produced by the 
region. He transfers the corresponding cube from the 
bank to the appropriate section in the domestic market, 
placing it in the upper-left-most available spot and moving 
across, then down. He then selects another resource 
produced by the region and takes the corresponding cube 
from the bank, placing it behind his screen. If the region 
produces only one resource, that resource goes to the 
domestic market.
Example: The newly discovered region produces 2 wood 
and 2 fish. T he player can decide to place one wood on the 
domestic market and take one wood for himself, or he can do 
the same with the fish, or he can take one fish and place one 
wood on the domestic market, or vice-versa.
 F Once all players have completed their first explora-
tion, they return their two unused hexagons as well as any 
previously discarded hexagons back to the region deck. 
Shuffle the region deck again and place it in its dedicated 
storage tray.
Turn over the first 5 cards from the evolu-
tion deck and place them along the evolution 
track in the orientation shown here:
Shuffle the trend cards, draw one at random, 
and place it face up so that it is visible to all 
players at all times. Put the remaining trend 
cards back in the game box; they will not be used in the 
Sort the objective cards into decks of 
10 according to the duration icon 
on their backs. Select an objective 
card deck based on the desired game duration:
A9er$geg$0e'8r$7i2n
in0in87e6
Do not mix objective cards from different decks. Put the 
two unused objective decks back in the game box. Shuffle 
the selected deck. Each player draws an objective card at 
random, looks at it secretly and places it face down beside 
him or behind his screen. T his card is the most 
secret information in the game. It should not be 
revealed and the information on it should not be shared 
with the other players. Objective cards determine end-
of-game and victory conditions (see How to win). Return 
all unused objective cards to the game box, without looking 
at them. They will not be used in the game.
See 2-player rules at the 
end of this rulebook.
 F The first turn can now begin.

Game 
length
Ranking criteria
Player rank
2:72:in
ach objective card indicates an end-of-game 
condition on its upper half and a victory 
condition on its lower half.
The game ends when the end-of-game 
conGLtLon on an\ one pOa\eUls oEMectLYe caUG 
is met. It is therefore important for each 
player to constantly keep in mind the end-of-game condi-
tion on his objective card.
Example: In a 4-player game, there are four different 
end-of-game conditions. Each player is only aware of one 
of them.
 = 1VP
At the end of the game, every 
player is ranked against the victory 
conditions of all objective cards in 
play, including those of the other players, and earns victory 
points (VP) based on his ranking in each objective.
Note: T he end-of-game condition has no bearing on the 
victory condition. Finishing the game does not score VP.
Each player can also earn VP from the trend card in play, 
and from certain character and progress cards (King, 
Pope, Cathedral, Colossus, etc.).
For more details: 
See End of game.
For a list of all objective cards: 
See end of this rulebook.
ARCHIPELAGO 
in'e3en'en&e
he game can end prematurely in case 
of archipelago independence. This 
happens if the rebellion marker 
 moves 
past the population marker 
 on the colony 
stability board (III).
neg27i$7ing
D
iplomacy, negotiations, promises, 
agreements, understandings, 
aOOLancese anG tUeacKeU\ aUe commonpOace 
activities in Archipelago. There can never 
be too much of it! This game is after all only 
semi-cooperativee
Negotiations and exchanges are authorized with the 
following constraints:
 F Players can only negotiate during their round 
(Phase 5: Actions), during the resolution of a crisis, and 
when determining the order of play.
 F Players can exchange, sell, give, or loan anything 
except their units or action discs.
 F It is strictly forbidden for any player to voluntarily 
reveal his secret objective card.
g$0e78rn
Each turn is divided into 6 phases 
which must be played in this order:
1. Disengagement
2. Order of play
3. Population effects
4. Balance of the archipelago
5. Actions*
6. Evolution card purchase
*In the order of your choice:
- Play one action
- Use a character or progress card
- Use a market or a port
HASE 1'i6eng$ge0en7
Skip this phase during turn #1.
P
layers disengage (rotate 90Ɛ counterclockwise) all engaged character and progress cards they control. On each 
region, citizens 
(
 and ships 
 that harvested during the previous turn are moved off the resource icons. 
Make sure that all resource icons are clear of any citizen or ship. Players who have rebel citizens (meeples lying on their 
backs 
 ) stand them up 
HASE 2: ORDER OF PLAY
o decide the order of play, each player secretly bets a number of florins ( ƒ ) from behind his 
screen, placing the bet in his closed fist. Betting nothing is allowed. Each player holds his fist 
above the table. Once all bets are placed, everyone opens his hand to reveal the amount of his bet. All bet 
amounts are considered spent and go to the bank.
The player with the highest bet decides the order of play for all players. He can therefore change 
tKe oUGeU oI tKe pOa\eUsl oUGeU maUNeUs on tKe eYoOXtLon tUacN as Ke OLNes $t tKLs tLme neJotLatLons anG EULEes oI aOO 
kinds are encouraged to try to convince the deciding player to award a better spot on the order of play. If no one 
has bet anything, the order of play stays unchanged. If two or more players are tied for the highest bet, the bet 
amounts go to the bank, and then those players bet again. In case of another tie, the order of play stays unchanged.

HASE 33238l$7i2ne))e&76
Apply population effects for each of the boards I to IV in 
order, by moving the surplus workers marker 
 and the 
 on their respective boards as follows:
BOARD I: 
DOMESTIC MARKET
The domestic market is stocked with locally harvested resources. 
When too many resources are available, fewer workers are 
needed thereby potentially increasing the surplus workers level, or 
worse, the rebellion level.
or each of the 6 different resource zones, the row 
containing the lower-right-most cube indicates with 
a number of rebel or surplus workers icons by how much 
to move the surplus workers marker 
 or the rebellion 
. Repeat for all 6 zones.
Example: 5 fish resources on the domestic market 
moves the surplus worker marker up 1 on the surplus 
workers board (IV). 6 iron resources moves the rebellion 
marker up 1 on the colony stability board (III).
Citizen: a member of the colony, represented 
by a colored meeple on the archipelago
Colony population marker: Keeps track of 
the entire colony population, that is, the total number 
of meeples present on the archipelago at any time.
R ebellion 
marker: Keeps 
track of the level of 
discontent and frustration 
on the islands.
Surplus workers marker: Surplus 
workers are not yet part of the colony and are not 
physically represented on the archipelago. T his marker keeps 
track of the level of available workers waiting to be recruited 
into the colony, whether natives or immigrants.
BOARD II: 
EXPORT MARKET
The export market is an exchange market with the continent. 
Resources are on the docks, ready to be shipped out. When the 
market is saturated, the surplus workers level goes up.
djust the surplus workers marker 
 using the 
same method as for board I.
BOARD III: 
&2l2n<67$Bili7<
Each game turn represents approximately 15 years of the citi-
]ens’ lives. 7 he colony stability board shows how the rebellion 
gains on the population over time. A growing population increases 
the surplus workers level and the rebellion level.
he row containing the population marker 
 indi-
cates with a number of rebel and surplus workers 
icons by how much to move the surplus workers marker 
 and the rebellion marker 
Example: A colony population between 11 and 20 
moves the surplus workers marker up 1. A colony popula-
tion between 31 and 40 moves the surplus workers 
marker up 1 and moves the rebellion marker up 1.
BOARD IV: 
SURPLUS WORKERS
The surplus workers board displays the level of available workers 
waiting to be recruited into the colony. As the level increases, 
the surplus workers become increasingly unhappy.
he row containing the surplus workers marker 
 
indicates by how much to move up or down the 
Example: With a surplus workers level between 13 
and 17, move the rebellion marker up 2.

HASE 4B$l$n&e2)7+e$r&+i3el$g2
Skip this phase during turn #1.
he balance of the archipelago is threatened by 
consumption needs of its inhabitants and export 
demands from the continent. The nature of the crisis is 
determined by the back of the card on top of the evolu-
tion deck.
Consumption 
crisis on the 
domestic market
Consumption 
crisis on the 
export market
Both crises must be resolved to preserve the balance of 
the archipelago. 
Important: In this phase, ignore any 
red-colored zones that might be present on 
the card (see Phase 6). T he corresponding 
crisis is not solved in this phase.
DOMESTIC 
&2n68037i2n&ri6i6
he upper half of the card indicates the type of 
resource consumed and how many citizens can be 
sustained by one cube of that resource.
In the example shown, 6 citizens can be sustained with each 
stone resource cube consumed.
To resolve the crisis, lay all the citizens on 
their backs, for all players and across the entire 
archipelago. Ships are not affected by the crisis.
Starting with the first player and continuing in the 
order of play, each player attempts to satisfy the consump-
tion needs of the archipelago by providing the necessary 
resources, taking them either from the domestic market 
EoaUG ,qstaUtLnJ IUom tKe EottomULJKtmost cXEe oI 
the appropriate section and moving towards the top-left-
most cXEeqoU IUom EeKLnG KLs oZn scUeen 2nce tKe 
responsibility of satisfying consumption needs has moved 
to another player, previous players can no longer partici-
pate in helping solve the crisis.
Obviously, the first players will tend to use up the 
resources present on the domestic market board (I) first. 
Then they will use up their own resources, if they so wish. 
All consumed resources are returned to the bank.
FoU eacK UesoXUce cXEe consXmeGqZKeUeYeU 
Lt comes IUomqtKe pOa\eU ZKo consXmeG Lt 
stands the corresponding number of citizens of his choice 
Xp potentLaOO\ LncOXGLnJ otKeU pOa\eUsl cLtL]ens
In the same example shown, the player can stand 6 citizens 
up for each stone cube consumed.
Once again, this is an ideal time to enter 
negotiations with other players to compen-
sate any services rendered. The player who 
consumed the resource must stand the 
indicated number of citizens up unless all citizens are 
standing already, even in the case of failed negotiations.
When all citizens are standing again, the crisis has passed 
and the balance of the archipelago is maintained. Go 
directly to the resolution of the export market crisis.
Once every player in turn has had a chance to 
participate, if any citizens are still lying on their 
backs, they become rebel citizens and will stay rebels 
until phase 1 of the next turn. Move the rebellion marker 
 up by the number of rebel citizens.
EXPORT 
&2n68037i2n&ri6i6
he lower half of the card indicates the number 
and type of resource that must be provided to the 
export market.
In the same example still, 3 cattle resource cubes must be 
consumed on the export market.
Starting with the first player and continuing in the 
order of play, each player will attempt to satisfy the 
consumption demand of the continent by providing the 
necessary resources, taking them either from the export 
market board (II) or from behind his own screen. All 
consumed resources are returned to the bank. 
Once every player in turn has had a chance to 
participate, if the required number of resources 
has not been supplied, move the rebellion marker 
 up 1 
for each missing resource.
e9en7
he backs of some evolution cards show an event 
instead of a domestic or export consumption crisis.
Event: Move the rebellion marker 
 down 2 
for each temple in the archipelago. 
Important: In this phase, ignore any 
red-colored events that might be present on 
the card (see Phase 6).
If the event is not red, it is resolved here.
Note: If the card stays visible on top of the evolution 
deck for multiple turns, the event is resolved in phase 4 of 
each of those turns.

exploration
migration
transaction
construction
market
port
recruitment
reproduction
taxes
resource harvest
reBel96$&7i9e&i7i=en6
Rebel citizens refuse to work. T hey cannot perform any 
actions. T hey cannot use or control a building, and they do not 
contribute to any money during a taxes action.
Active citizens are citizens who are not rebels. T hey 
work towards the development of their colony, and can therefore 
participate in all actions, and can use and control buildings.
in'e3en'en&e
f the rebellion marker 
 ever moves 
past the population marker 
, an 
uprising ensues and the archipelago claims 
its independence. T he game ends 
immediately. All players have lost the 
game, unless a player has the Separatist 
objective card in which case he alone wins the game (see 
End of game).
Note: Independence is not declared if the rebellion marker 
is at the same level as the population marker .
e;3l2rer72.en
&2n9er6i2n
n explorer token can be turned 
into a single resource cube of 
any type during the resolution of a 
crisis. The explorer token is then removed from the game 
(do not put it back on the explorer token piles).
An explorer token can only be converted during a crisis 
or when a player performs an action requiring one or more 
resources. A resource so obtained contributes towards the 
actLonls UesoXUce UeTXLUement LncOXGLnJ seOOLnJ tKat same 
resource. Multiple explorer tokens can be converted into 
resources during the same action or crisis.
HASE 5$&7i2n6
The action wheel provides 13 different possible actions identified by various zones, including 6 actions to harvest the different types of resources.
Rounds: Starting with the first player, and continuing in the order of play, 
each player plays one round by placing one of his action discs (AD) 
 on 
the action wheel and performing the corresponding action. Players continue 
playing rounds until all players have used up their action discs or cannot play 
anything; then they proceed to phase 6.
At the beginning of the game, each player has 3 action 
discs. Once the first explorer token pile becomes empty 
(see Exploration), each player immediately gets a 4th 
action disc of his color which he can use for the rest of the game, starting with 
this turn. Once the second explorer token pile becomes empty, each player 
immediately gets a 5th action disc of his color which he can use for the rest of 
the game, starting with this turn.
Unlimited action zones: The following actions can be performed more 
than once by the same or different players: the 6 resource harvest actions, 
recruitment, construction, transaction, and migration. Just pile up the various 
action discs on the same action zone (do not cover the action icon). There is no 
limit to the number of action discs that can be piled on these actions.
Limited action zones: Taxes, reproduction, and explora-
tion can only receive a limited number of action discs, as 
indicated by the colored circles within the action zones. A player who wishes 
to perform one of these actions must place his action disc on the circle corre-
sponding to his color if it is not yet occupied. If it is occupied, place the action 
disc on one of the multi colored circles if one remains available.
market
port
T he port and market are not considered action zones. T hey 
receive florins instead of action discs (see Port, Market).
Rebel citizen: 
meeple lying on its back
Active citizen: 
meeple standing up

Exotic fruit Cattle
Fish
Wood
Stone
Iron
Do not place the action disc on the icon!
Active player: the player whose round it is
Unit: any ship 
 or citizen 
 
(active 
or rebel 
)
Active unit: 
 
an active citizen 
 or a ship 
 
(Ships are always considered active as they cannot rebel.)
TAXES
T he taxes action can only be performed a limited 
number of times per turn.
M
ove the rebellion marker 
 up 1 each time a player 
performs this action. For each active citizen, ship, 
town and temple under his control, the active player 
receives the number of florins indicated on the tax table 
from the bank.
Reminder: Rebels do not contribute any money during 
a taxes action.
HARVEST
C
hoose a resource to harvest. The active player 
deploys as many active, non-engaged units across 
the entire archipelago as desired on unoccupied resource 
icons of that type, one 
unit per icon.
E ach unit must 
remain in the region 
(hexagon) it occupied 
before the action.
Fish resources can only 
be harvested by ships. 
The other resources 
can only be harvested 
by active citizens.
7r$n6$&7i2n
Transaction: purchase or sale of one resource 
cube on either the domestic or the export market
he active player may perform one transaction on 
the domestic market or the export market.
For a purchase, take the lower-right-most cube in the 
chosen resource zone. For a sale, place the cube on the 
upper-left-most available space of the corresponding 
resource zone.
For each deployed unit, the player takes a corresponding 
resource cube from the bank and places it behind his screen.
There is no limit to the number of resource cubes that can 
be harvested during a single harvest action. However, a 
single harvest action can only harvest one type of resource.
Units that participate in the harvest must remain on the 
resource icons they harvested until the next disengage-
ment phase. They are considered engaged.
Engaged units: Certain actions like harvest, 
construction of a building, using a port or market engage 
the units used to perform the action. This means that they 
are not able to perform additional actions that would 
require moving them. However, they can still reproduce 
and recruit in their region.
A player cannot harvest resources in a region that 
is controlled by another player unless he has that 
otKeU pOa\eUls peUmLssLon (see Towns).
Note: Resource cubes are limited in quantity. If a 
resource is nearly out of stock at the bank, it is possible that 
the harvest will not yield as many cubes as the number of 
harvested locations.
The price of the transaction is determined by the row 
from which the cube is taken, or on which it is placed. The 
corresponding money goes to or comes from the bank.
Note: If a resource section is full on a given market, 
it is no longer possible to sell that resource on that market.
Example: Purchasing one fish cube will cost 4ƒ , a 
second one also 4ƒ , a third one 6ƒ . Selling one fish cube 
would bring 4ƒ , selling a second one 3ƒ .

+
e;3l2r$7i2n
T he exploration action can only be performed a 
limited number of times per turn.
he active player decides whether he wants 
the first visible hexagon of the region deck. 
If not, he discards it to a separate discard pile and 
takes the next one. He must make that choice without 
advance knowledge of the next hexagon and without 
looking at the other side of the first visible hexagon. The 
hexagon deck must stay in its dedicated storage tray at all 
times. Once he has picked a hexagon, the player can look at 
both sides and decide which region to use.
Note: If the hexagon deck in the storage tray ever 
becomes empty, shuffle all discarded hexagons into a new 
deck and place it back into the tray.
Constraints that must be met
 F The new region must be placed adjacent to at least 
two other regions. 
 F Place the region so as to create a coherent landscape 
with respect to the sea, field, and mountain connections.
 
 One of the adjacent regions must contain 
one oI tKe pOa\eUls actLYe nonenJaJeG XnLts (see Engaged 
units).
 F That unit is moved to the newly discovered region, 
and must be able to get there by sea for a ship, or by land 
for a citizen (no sea convoy allowed, see Migration). Only 
one unit is moved to the new region for each exploration.
Effects of exploration
 F If the active player cannot place the new hexagon, his 
exploration fails and the hexagon is discarded.
If the exploration is successful, the active 
player receives an explorer token from 
the first available explorer token pile and 
places it behind his screen. 
When that pile becomes 
empty, each player immedi-
ately receives an extra action 
disc of his color (5 maximum).
 The active player chooses a resource among the 
resources that the new region is capable of producing and 
takes a corresponding cube from the bank which he places 
on the domestic market.
 If there are other resource icons on the region, 
the active player receives a resource cube of his choice 
from the bank from the remaining resources that the new 
region is capable of producing. If the region produces only 
one resource cube, it goes to the domestic market and the 
player receives nothing.
Example 1: T he region has two resource icons, one 
wood, one exotic fruit. T he player places an exotic fruit cube 
on the domestic market. Since there is no more exotic fruit, 
he is left with a wood cube for himself.
Example 2: The region has two cattle icons. One cattle 
cube goes to the domestic market and the second cattle cube 
goes to the player.
Increase the surplus workers level 
 
by the number of huts shown on the 
region.
re3r2'8&7i2n
T he reproduction action can only be performed once 
per player per turn.
O
n each region where the player controls exactly 
2 citizens, he can add 1 citizen of his color, taking 
a meeple from the box. Move the population marker 
 up 
by the number of new citizens generated by reproduction. 
Reminder: T he population marker 
 must always 
match the exact number of citizens present on the archipelago.
Rebels do not reproduce; however, active, engaged citi-
zens can reproduce. 
A player can never control more than 10 citizens of his 
color. A player cannot reproduce in a region where he 
already has 3 citizens, whether active or rebel.
3-citizen limit 
/
: T here can never 
be more than 3 citizens, whether active or rebel, controlled 
by the same player on a single region. Having units of 
different colors in the same region is allowed as long as the 
limit of 3 citizens per player is respected. There is no limit 
on the number of ships.
re&r8i70en7
he active player can recruit as many workers as he 
wishes in a single action, as long as he can pay for 
them and place them. 
The recruitment cost for a worker is shown on the 
surplus workers board (IV), next to the row containing 
the surplus workers marker 
. The recruitment cost is 
paid to the bank.
Example: If there are 5 surplus workers before recruit-
ment, the active player can recruit 1 worker for 3ƒ , and a 
2nd worker for another 3ƒ . However, a 3rd worker would 
cost 4ƒ .
The player takes as many meeples of his color from the 
reserve as the number of workers recruited and places 
them on land areas in the regions of his choice where he 
is already present with at least one active unit, engaged or 
not. He cannot place them in regions where he already has 
3 citizens (see 3-citizen limit).
Lower the surplus workers marker 
 by the number of 
workers recruited, and increase the population marker 
 
by the same number. 
Reminder: T he population marker 
 must always 
match the total number of citizens on the archipelago.
Note: Recruiting is not possible if the level of surplus 
workers is at zero!

 sea convoy across a sea 
inlet on the same region; 
then ship moves
 migration by land to 
adjacent region
 migration to 
building on same region
linked convoy: 
 transported 
across 2 regions
 sea convoy to 
an adjacent region
buildi
 migration to building on 
an adjacent region
0igr$7i2n
he active player can move all of his active, 
non-engaged units. Each unit can move to an 
adjacent region, or it can move to an unoccupied building 
on the same region or an adjacent region. Ships must move 
by sea and cannot enter land areas. Citizens must move by 
land and cannot cross seas unless transported by ships of the 
same player (see Sea convoy).
At the end of his migration action, a player cannot have 
more than 3 citizens in a single region (see 3-citizen limit).
&2n67r8&7i2n
Building a town, market, port, or 
temple
he active player can construct a building for the price 
indicated on the construction cost table above. The 
construction must happen in a region containing at least 
one actLYe nonenJaJeG cLtL]en oI tKe pOa\eUls coOoU oU 
alternatively, a ship of his color if building a port.
There can only be one construction of each type per region. 
Therefore, each region can contain at most one town, one 
port, one market, and one temple. Constructions are 
limited by the number of building tokens available in the 
Once the construction cost in resources and florins is paid 
to the bank, place a token representing the construction on 
the region. Town, temple, and market tokens are placed 
on land areas, not covering any resource icons. Port tokens 
are placed on the water in contact with the coastline.
The unit that performed the construction 
is placed on the construction token. T hat 
unit is now engaged.
Building a ship
nstead of a building, the active player 
can build a ship of his color in a region 
containing a sea area. The ship is built by 
an active, non-engaged citizen.
Building a ship does not engage the citizen 
that builds it. The newly built ship is placed on the sea 
and is immediately available.
Note: Each player is limited to its 4 available ships.
Controlling a building
player controls a building if he has an active unit 
on that building.
If a unit leaves a building, the building is no longer 
controlled, and the first unit that comes to it during a 
mLJUatLon eYen an opponentls XnLt taNes contUoO oI tKe 
building.
Sea convoy
A ship can help one or more citizens cross the sea. A migration of citizens by sea convoy does not use up 
tKe sKLpls mLJUatLon actLon +oZeYeU cLtL]ens ZKo aUe tUanspoUteG E\ sKLp Xse Xp tKeLU mLJUatLon actLon 
by choosing to be convoyed by sea. 
To perform a sea convoy, place the ship participating in the convoy at the junction line between the 
departure region and arrival region, staying on its region, or on a sea inlet separating two land areas on 
the same region. The ship can perform its own migration before or after the sea convoy. 
Linked convoy: By using multiple ships in a linked convoy, a citizen can be transported across more than one region 
with a single migration action.
 ship leaves port to migrate to 
adjacent region

Towns
a town, occupy it, and operate it. 
town gives the player control of the region on 
which it is placed as long as he has an active citizen 
on that town. Controlling a region means that the player 
contUoOs aOO tKe otKeU EXLOGLnJs Ln tKe UeJLonqpoUt 
maUNet tempOeqeYen LI Ke Goes not KaYe actLYe XnLts 
engaged on the other buildings. The player can there-
fore benefit from the advantages provided by the port, 
market, or temple located in the region as long as he 
controls the town. Opponents cannot take control of any 
port, market, or temple on that region.
Using a port or market: If a player uses 
the advantages of a port or market from the 
town, the citizen controlling the town becomes 
engaged and will therefore not be able to perform 
any other action that requires moving it. He may however 
use a port in one round, and a market in another.
Controlling harvest: A town also 
provides control of all the resources 
present on a region. If other players wish 
to harvest those resources, they must ask 
IoU tKe toZn contUoOOeUls peUmLssLon 
This provides another opportunity to enter negotiations 
and demand compensation from opponents for services 
rendered.
Multiple players in a region: If player A builds 
a town in a region that contains a port, market, or temple 
which is occupied, and thus controlled by player B, player 
B remains in control of his building as long as his unit 
remains on it and does not become a rebel:
 F As soon as player B leaves the port/market/temple, 
player A automatically assumes immediate control of the 
abandoned building.
 F At the end of the resolution of a crisis, if the unit 
belonging to player B that occupies the port/market 
becomes a rebel, then player A can choose to expel it from 
the building and assume control since he controls the town 
in the region. He removes the rebel from the building and 
moves it elsewhere on the region, keeping it lying on its 
back (rebel state).
Player B can take the risk of building a port/market/
temple in a region containing a town controlled by 
Player A. The same rules above apply, meaning that 
player B will control the building as long as he stays on it, 
but if he leaves it or if the unit on it becomes a rebel, player 
A will assume its control.
Ports
An active, non-engaged citizen or ship 
can build a port, occupy it, and operate it.
Each port gives its controlling player the 
opportunity to perform two transactions on the export 
market (see Transaction) without using action discs. To 
control a port, the player must either occupy it with an 
active unit, or control it from a town.
Each player can use one port or market 
during each of his rounds. To do so, he 
spends 1ƒ from behind his screen on the action wheel on the 
port zone matching his color. Each controlled port can be 
used once and only once during the entire actions phase. 
Therefore, a player controlling 2 ports could use each port 
once for a total cost of 2ƒ placed on the port area of his color.
A unit using the advantages provided by the 
port becomes engaged and is therefore not 
able to perform any other action that requires engaging it 
or moving it.
Markets
a market, occupy it, and operate it. 
Each market gives its controlling player the 
opportunity to perform two transactions on the domestic 
market (see Transaction) without using action discs. To 
control a market, a player must either occupy it with an 
active citizen, or control it from a town.
Markets work the same way as ports. 
The player spends 1ƒ on the action wheel on the 
market zone matching his color.
A citizen using the advantages provided by the 
market becomes engaged and will therefore not be 
able to perform any other action that requires engaging it 
or moving it.
Temples
a temple, occupy it, and operate it. 
A citizen on a temple is never laid on its back 
during the resolution of a crisis. In addition, 
during the resolution of a crisis, when it is the turn of the 
player controlling the temple, this player may choose to 
stand any desired number of citizens present in the 
tempOels UeJLon Xp IoU IUeeqoI KLs coOoU anGoU otKeU 
pOa\eUsl coOoUs 
To control a temple, a player must either occupy it with 
an active citizen, or control it from a town.
Special case: If a player controls a temple from a town, 
but the citizen on the town becomes a rebel, the temple is 
no longer controlled. In order to use the temple, the player 
must first be able to stand the citizen up on his town before 
standing the other citizens on the region up.
Tactical note: Many events on the back of evolution 
cards move the rebellion marker down by an amount propor-
tionate to the number of controlled temples in the archipelago.
Sea inlets
Two citizens on opposite banks of a sea 
inlet cannot reproduce. A citizen cannot 
harvest a resource located on the opposite 
bank. A ship may recruit workers on either or both banks. 
A town controls the resources and unoccupied buildings 
on both banks. A temple allows that citizens may be stood 
up on both banks.
During the exploration in turn zero, you may deploy 
your citizens on either or both banks.

A12 / 48
:Ken GeteUmLnLnJ tKe 
oUGeU oI pOa\ tKe .LnJ 
aGGs an aXtomatLc 3ƒ 
EonXs to tKe YaOXe oI Lts 
contUoOOeUls Eet
A41 / 48
CATHEDRAL 
2AD
A41/48
:K
:K
A41/48
ATHEDRAL
2AD
2A2
CATHED
KIN
CA
A02 / / / 48
IRATE
'estUo\ an ene
ene
e
em\ sKLp 
pUesent on tKe s
Ke s
s
same 
UeJLon as one oI
e oI
I \oXU 
sKLps 7K
7K
7Ke oZne
Zne
ne
ne
neU oI tKe 
GestUo\eG sKLp m
Lpm
mXst 
cKoLce ,I I Ke Kas none Ke 
mXst pUoYe Lt E\ OLItLnJ 2
J2
1A
ERCHANT 
e 
nt 
Return all used action discs to their respective 
players. T he 1ƒ coins on the port and market zones 
of the action wheel go to the bank.
t any given time, the evolution track contains 
5 cards representing the current set of evolution 
cards available for purchase. 
Starting with the first player and continuing in the order 
of play,
each player must either:
Purchase an evolution card and 
rotate one of the remaining 
caUGsqLn tKat oUGeU
or
Rotate two different cards.
The red triangles on the evolution track point 
towards the cost icon of each card (in florins). 
When purchasing a card, the player pays the cost indicated 
by the red pointer to the bank; then he takes the card and 
places it in front of him, visible to all players.
When rotating a card, rotate it 90Ɛclockwise.
 
The cost of the card will change, going up or 
down depending on the card. If the red pointer 
points to the skull on the card after the card is rotated, 
discard the card.
Once a card is purchased and/or cards are rotated, if any 
spaces on the evolution track become empty as a result, fill 
them with cards drawn from the evolution deck, one at a 
time, to fill the empty spaces. Each new card is oriented 
upright such that it can be read, like the Merchant on the 
example shown.
A29 / 48
IRON MINE 
oI 
A44 / 48
<oX can peUIoUm a tUansactLon oI \oXU cKoLce on 
tKe domestic market ZLtKoXt spenGLnJ an 
actLon GLsc
Example: T he first player chooses to rotate two cards 
rather than make a purchase. He rotates the Pirate card and 
the Local Commerce card.
Two more players also rotate the Pirate card. T he red 
triangle now points to its skull icon, so it must be discarded.
The space left empty is filled with the top card of the evolution 
deck. T he new card is the Exporter. It is placed in the empty 
slot, oriented upright so it can be read. T he back of the card 
on top of the evolution deck contains a red zone, a crisis on the 
domestic market, which must be resolved immediately.
Important: If, as a result of drawing a 
card, the next card on top of the deck includes a 
red zone on its back, the corresponding crisis or 
event must be resolved immediately, following 
the rules in Phase 4. Non-red zones are 
ignored in this phase. T hey will come into play 
in Phase 4 of next turn.
Immediate crisis on 
the domestic market
Immediate crisis on 
the export market
Immediate event: 
 down 1 for each temple 
in the archipelago.
Immediate event: 
 up 1 for each town in 
the archipelago.
HASE 6e92l87i2n&$r'38r&+$6e
Note: It is possible for two cards to be removed from 
the evolution track at the same time, potentially causing 
two immediate crises and/or events to be triggered during a 
single player’s purchase. 
Tactical note: Unlike in a normal crisis resolved in 
Phase 4, in an immediate crisis, only the total number 
of citizens still lying on their backs at the end of the crisis 
matters because they increase the rebellion level. It does not 
matter who they belong to, since all citizens will become 
active again in Phase 1 of the next turn. 

HOW TO USE 
e92l87i2n&$r'6
volution cards (character or progress) can only be 
used during the actions phase. It is therefore not 
possible to use a card immediately after purchase because 
the actions phase is over at that time. 
Each player can use one evolution card 
during each of his rounds. 3a\ tKe caUGls actLYa-
tion cost, engage it by rotating it clockwise one quarter of 
a turn, and apply its effects. Once a card is activated, it 
cannot be activated again in the same turn. It must first be 
disengaged during the disengagement phase.
A27 / 48
SAWMILL 
Example: Player A wants to harvest wood. He uses 
player %’s 6awmill card to double his harvest, by paying 2ƒ 
to player B, the normal 1ƒ cost and an additional 1ƒ (see 
Icon glossary), and engaging his card. If he sends 3 citizens 
to 3 different wood resource icons on the archipelago, he will 
harvest 6 wood resources instead of 3. Now player B can 
no longer use his Sawmill card until it is disengaged again in 
the next disengagement phase.
Example: 
Player B wants to use his Pirate card. 
Only he can use it. He engages it, places 1 action disc on 
the card and applies its effects.
&2n67r8&7ing7+e
:2n'er6
P
rogress cards with a construc-
tion icon are wonders. 
Wonder cards do not have activa-
tion arrows. They are not activated, 
they are built. 
During his round, instead of using a normal evolu-
tion card, the active player can build one of his wonders 
purchased in a previous turn.
He pa\s tKe caUGls EXLOGLnJ cost anG appOLes Lts onetLme 
effect ; once built, a wonder cannot be built again.
Then, he removes one of his active, non-engaged citi-
zens from anywhere on the archipelago and places it on 
the wonder just built. Move the population marker 
 
down 1.
A built wonder earns the controlling player VP at the end 
of the game, as indicated on the card.
Note: Unbuilt wonders do not earn the player VP. 
However, they still count as a progress card when scoring 
that criteria.
A40 / 48
GREAT LIGHTHOUSE 
Example: T he player must control at least one port to be 
able to build the Great Lighthouse. Spend 1 iron resource, 
2 stone resources, and one action disc, and place one of the 
player’s active, nonengaged citi]en on the card. (very player 
adds a ship in each region where he controls a port. T he Great 
Lighthouse earns its controller 1VP at the end of the game.
i&2n 
GLOSSARY
Only the player who owns the card can 
activate it to use its effects. He pays the 
cost in florins and resources to the bank.
Any player can activate the card to use its 
effects. He pays the cost in florins, plus 
1ƒ  to tKe caUGls oZneU ,I tKeUe aUe no 
florin costs, he still pays 1ƒ to the owner. 
5esoXUce costs aUe paLG to tKe EanN ,I tKe caUGls 
owner uses the card, he pays the normal cost in 
florins and resources to the bank.
Spend the indicated number of action 
discs by placing them on the card.
Pay the indicated cost in florins.
Pay the cost as described on the card. 
Any mention of a minimal cost refers to 
the lowest cost in florins among the three costs 
sKoZn Ln tKe caUGls coUneUs
Pay the indicated cost in resources to the 
bank.
Any resource cube. See text on the card 
for more information.
 up or down by the number 
of icons shown.
Move the surplus workers 
 up or down by the 
number of icons shown.
During harvest of the 
resource type shown, double 
the number of resource cubes 
received.
Earns the player 1VP / medal at the end 
of the game. If the card is a wonder, it 
must be built first.
See Card glossary for more 
information.
Character card
Progress card

n'2)g$0e
he game can end in one of two ways:
War of independence:
The rebellion marker 
 moves past 
the population marker 
 on the colony 
stability board (III). T he game ends 
immediately.
End-of-game condition reached:
A player reveals his objective card as soon 
as the end-of-game condition on the card 
is achieved. The game ends at the end of the active play-
eUls UoXnG
For a list of all possible 
end-of-game conditions: 
See List of objective cards at the end of this rulebook.
:+2:in6"
 F If a war of independence is declared and no player has 
the Separatist objective card, all players have lost.
 F If a war of independence is declared and one player 
has the Separatist objective card, he alone wins the game. 
All other players have lost.
 F If the game ends because an end-of-game condition 
is reached, all players have won the game. Players then 
count the victory points earned to determine the grand 
winner.
Note: T he Separatist and the Pacifist participate in 
counting victory points and can thus win the game indepen-
dently of their objective.
6&2ring2B-e&7i9e&$r'6
 = 1VP
Lay the objective cards of all 
players down side by side. Set 
aside the Separatist and Pacifist 
cards if present. The remaining cards contain objectives 
that concern all players. One card at a time, rank the 
players according to the criteria specified in the victory 
conditions zone of the card. The highest-ranking player 
in the specified criteria scores 3VP, the second best scores 
2VP, the third 1VP.
Game 
length
Ranking criteria
Player rank
Players who have nothing that can match the criteria are 
not ranked. If two players are tied on a given criteria, they 
both get the points corresponding to their ranking. T he 
next players in the ranking are not shifted 
down: they take the next spot. Players can only 
earn VP if they place in the top 3 rankings.
Example: Yellow and Red are tied for first place, so 
they both earn 3VP. Blue takes second place and earns 
2VP, and Green gets 1VP for third place.
Pacifist objective: If, at the end of the 
game, the difference between the population 
 and the rebellion marker 
 is 
achieved as described on the Pacifist card, the 
Pacifist player alone scores 3VP.
For a list of all possible 
victory conditions: 
See List of objective cards at the end of this rulebook.
6&2ring7+e7ren'&$r'
Each player is also ranked according to the criteria speci-
fied on the trend card, earning between 2 and 4VP:
Ranking 
criteria
Benefactor
The Benefactor card is different 
from other trend cards. It is divided 
into 5 zones, one for each player color. 
When a player spends a resource cube 
or explorer token from behind his 
screen to help resolve a crisis, he takes 
1ƒ from the bank and places it on the 
Benefactor card in the zone corresponding to his color. 
He does the same when he builds a temple.
At the end of the game, the player who has the most 
florins in his zone of the Benefactor card scores 4VP, 
the second highest scores 3VP, and the third highest 
2VP. Players can replace five 1ƒ coins with a single 5ƒ 
coin if needed during play.
6&2ringe92l87i2n
CARDS
Some character cards, such as the King and the Pope, earn 
the players VP at the end of the game, as shown by the 
medal on the card. All built wonders earn the players VP.
$n'7+egr$n':inner
i6e
Each player adds up his VP scored. The player with the 
most VP is declared the grand winner. In case of a tie, the 
player with the most money behind his screen among 
the tied players is declared the grand winner.

SCORING EXAMPLE
A 4-player game ends with two resources running out. One of the players has 
the Separatist objective but was unable to trigger a war of independence, so he 
does not earn any VP from his card. It is shown in reduced size in the example. 
The objective cards of the other 3 players are laid down side by side along with the trend card.
Temple trend: Green controls 4 temples, Blue controls 3 temples, Red controls 
2 temples, and Yellow controls 1 temple. Green ranks first scoring 4VP, Blue 
ranks second and scores 3VP, Red ranks third and scores 2VP. Yellow ranks 
fourth and does not earn any VP.
Iron objective: Yellow reveals 6 iron cubes from behind his screen, ranks first, and scores 
3VP. Red ranks second with 4 iron cubes and earns 2VP. Blue and Green have no iron and 
do not participate in the ranking.
Progress objective: Blue has 3 progress cards, Yellow also has 3, Red has 1. Blue and 
Yellow are tied on this criteria and score 3VP each. Red ranks in second place and scores 2VP.
Temple objective: Just as for the temple trend card, Green is first and scores 3VP (fewer 
VP than with the trend card), Blue is second and scores 2VP, Red is third and scores 1VP.
Wonders: Blue built the Great Lighthouse which earns him 1VP.
Character cards: Green controls the King, which earns him 1VP.
Grand winner: A tally of the score shows that Blue is first overall with 9VP, Green is 
second with 8VP, Red comes in third with 7VP, and Yellow is fourth with 6VP.
Note: Since two cards involved temples (trend and objective), players scored VP twice 
for this criteria.
Hint: To speed up and simplify the scoring, use units in the color of each player, taken from 
the reserve in the storage tray—or, if the reserve is empty, from units on the map not related to 
any of the objectives—and place them on each card on the line corresponding to their respective 
ranking, as shown in the example. It makes it easy to add up each player’s score across all the 
cards. As an alternative, flip over the evolution track and use the scoring track printed on the 
back with ship units to mark the scores.
2-PLAYER 
RULES
The game is played with the following modifications:
 F Remove the Pacifist and Separatist cards from the 
objective deck.
 F Each player draws and plays with 2 objective cards.
 F One player controls the warm colors (red and 
yellow), the other controls the cool colors (green and 
blue). If they run out of ships or citizens in their first 
color, they can start using the second color. However, 
players are still limited to 5 action discs each, not 10.
 F In case of a tie while determining the order of 
play, there is not a second bet. The order of play stays 
unchanged.
VARIANTS
The following variants will provide different game 
experiences. Most of them can be combined for even more 
diversity.
DESERT START
Use the desert village region as the 
starting region. Players start the game 
without a ship. Each player starts with 
2 citizens on the desert region. Since 
the desert region has 5 huts, start the 
surplus workers marker 
 at 5. Play turn #0 as for the 
normal open sea start. After placing his first hexagon, each 
player moves one of his two citizens to the newly discov-
ered region. The rest of the game is played normally.
NO SECRETS BETWEEN 
FRIENDS
Players do not draw objective 
cards at the beginning of the game. 
Remove the Separatist and Pacifist 
cards from the deck. Reveal as 
many objective cards as there are 
players. Leave them visible for all 
players to see for the duration of the 
game. These cards show end-of-
game and victory conditions that 
are common to all players. In a way, 
they behave as trend cards. Do not 
use trend cards if using this variant.
Temple trend
Iron objective
Progress objective
Temple objective
Separatist objective

02re&2n7r2l
Reveal two trend cards at the 
beginning of the game.
MORE SPICE
Each player draws two objective cards at the 
beginning of the game, chooses one, and discards 
the other. 
CHOOSE THE 
7ren'
At the beginning of turn #0, before the players receive 
their 3 hexagons, they discuss and collectively choose the 
trend card they want to use.
Bene)$&72r
Use the Benefactor trend card, and 
draw a second trend card from the 
deck. Remove the Separatist and 
Pacifist objective cards from the 
deck. Choose this variant to reduce the odds of a war of 
independence breaking out. Players still draw objective 
cards. This variant is recommended in a 2-player game.
 CARD GLOSSARY
Amphitheater
Earn 2ƒ from the bank and move 
the rebellion marker 
 down 1. 
Archbishop
 down as 
determined by the total number of temples 
in the archipelago:
0-2 temples: move the marker down 1
3-4 temples: move the marker down 2
5 temples or more: move the marker down 3
Barbarian
The coin stays on the pillaged resources for 
the rest of the game indicating that they can 
no longer be harvested. Note: Towns do not 
protect against the Barbarian.
Cathedral
You must control at least one 
temple to be able to build the 
Cathedral. Spend 3 stone resources and 2 action discs. 
 down 1 for each temple in 
the archipelago. The Cathedral earns its controller 2VP 
at the end of the game.
Colossus
Spend 3 iron resources and 1 action 
disc. Move the surplus workers 
 down 1. The Colossus earns its controller 
1VP at the end of the game.
Emigration
Move the surplus workers marker 
 down 1 for each port in the 
archipelago.
Exporter / 
Merchant
The price of each cube is deter-
mined by the row in which the 
cube is placed or from which it is taken, as in a regular 
transaction action.
Gifts from the clergy
Option 1: give an exotic fruit 
resource to the bank and move the 
 down 1, OR:
Option 2: give an exotic fruit resource and a cattle 
resource to the bank and move the rebellion marker 
 
down 2.
Great Lighthouse
You must control at least one 
port to be able to build the Great 
Lighthouse. Spend 1 iron resource, 2 stone resources, 
and one action disc. Every player adds a ship in each region 
where he controls a port. The Great Lighthouse earns its 
controller 1VP at the end of the game. 
Head-hunter / 
Researcher
Ignore any red-colored zones 
on the 5 revealed cards. 
However, if a red-colored 
zone appears on the 6th card now on top of the evolution 
deck, resolve it immediately.
Pirate
TKe GestUo\eG sKLp Joes EacN to tKe pOa\eUls 
reserve and can be rebuilt at a later time.
Pope
 down 1 for 
each temple in the archipelago. The Pope 
earns its controller 1VP at the end of the 
Pyramid
Spend 5 stone resources and 
2 action discs. Move the rebellion 
 up 2. The Pyramid earns its controller 2VP 
at the end of the game.
Recruiter
TKe ZoUNeUls UecUXLtment cost Ls GeteU-
mined by the surplus workers board (IV), 
as in a regular recruitment action.
Thief
If the targeted player only has one resource, 
he places it in one hand and leaves the other 
hand empty. If he has none, he must lift up 
his screen to prove it.

CHRIS 
QUILLIAMS
Character artwork
JEAN-CHARLES 
MOUREY
Graphic layout 
Rules doctor 
English translation 
Manufacturing 
:eEsLte
i60$£l
Tile artwork
CHRISTOPHE 
Bœlinger
Game design
Graphic vision
Communication
Graphic layout
Occupation - Artist
Occupation -
Overworked artist
VINCENT 
BOULANGER 
Principal illustrator:
Covers
Progress illustrations
Game components
Icons 
Pencil sketches
etc.
SASKIA RUTH
SASKIARUTH
SASKIA RUTH
German translator
Fair promoter
Dungeon Twister 
champion
CREDITS
7+$n.<28
We are very grateful to all the playtesters who have 
followed and contributed to the evolution of Archipelago 
since its inception. There are so many of you that it would 
be impossible to make a list here. Thank you all!
TKanN \oX to tKe aUtLsts 9Lncent %oXOanJeU ,smaÃO anG 
Chris Quilliams, who gave life to the project with their 
talent and passion.
Thank you to our outstanding German translator and 
'XnJeon 7ZLsteU cKampLon  6asNLa k3XNl 5XtK
Thank you to our diligent reviewers of the rules: 
&ecLOLa 0oXUe\ $Oe[anGUe )LJXLÀUe )aEULce :LeOs 
(Sherinford), Xavier Saissy, Eric Franklin, Olivier 
Grassini, Henri Bendelac, Vesna Six, Christian Senksis.
Thank you to Mops, Phal, Guido from Tric Trac, as well 
as all their readers, for their support and enthusiasm.
Thank you to Stefan Blessing from Ludofact for his effi-
cLenc\ anG IULenGOLness 7KanN \oX to /ÁonLGas 9espeULnL 
from Ravage for his support.
TKanN \oX to 6tÁpKane %XUJXnGeU anG KLs sNLLnJ  JamLnJ 
weeks in Valmeinier, where Archipelago was largely 
created, reworked, and tested with skiing gamers ;)
TKanNs to \oX tKe UeaGeU ZKo Ls stLOO UeaGLnJ tKLse %Xt 
\oXlG EetteU Jo pOa\ <oX KaYe an aUcKLpeOaJo to e[pOoUee
For latest updates on Archipelago 
and other games: 
www.ludically.com
email: contact@ludically.com

in play: 5 towns in 
a 2-player game, 
6 towns in a 3-player 
in play: 5 ports in a 
2-player game, 6 ports 
in play: 5 markets in 
a 2-player game, 6 
any 3 resources run out 
at the bank
total number of character 
and progress cards in play: 
12 cards in a 2-player 
game, 16 cards in a 
in play: 5 temples in 
a 2-player game, 6 
temples in a 3-player 
piles are exhausted
total number of ships 
in play: 6 ships in a 
2-player game, 8 ships 
surplus workers level
 higher than 21
bank is out of money
number of ports 
Each player adds 
up the total number 
of fish resources in 
Each player adds up 
the total number of 
exotic fruit resources 
in regions he controls 
number of character 
number of progress 
than 10, the Pacifist 
Separatist: If the rebel-
lion marker moves 
past the population 
Separatist wins 
alone.
7$Ble2)&2n7en76
Game components . . . ...... . . . . 2
Game setup . . . . . . . . . ....... . . . 3
Turn #0: Discovering the archipelago 4
How to win . . . . . . . . . ....... . . . 5
Archipelago independence . . . . . . 5
Negotiating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Game turn . . . . . . . . . . ....... . . . 5
Phase 1: Disengagement .... . . . 5
Phase 2: Order of Play ...... . . . 5
Phase 3: Population effects ... . . . 6
Phase 4: Balance of the archipelago 7
Domestic consumption crisis . . . . . 7
Export consumption crisis . . . . . . 7
Event . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Independence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Explorer token conversion . . . . . . 8
Phase 5: Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Harvest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Transaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Exploration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Reproduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Recruitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Migration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Construction, Ships . . . . . . . . . . 11
Markets, Ports, Temples, Towns 12
Phase 6: Purchase an evolution card 13
How to use evolution cards . . . . . 14
Icon glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Constructing the wonders . . . . . . . 14
End of game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15
Who wins?, Scoring, Grand winner 15
Benefactor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Scoring example . . . . . . . . . . .16
2-Player rules ........ . ....... 16
Variants ........ .............. 16
Card glossary ........... ...... 17
Credits ........ . ............. 18
List of objective cards ......... . 19
'e)ini7i2n6
Meeple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Region . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Markers 
 
 
 . . . . . . . .6
Citizen 
 . . . . . . . . . . .6
Rebel vs. active citizens 
 . . .8
Active player, Unit, Active unit 9
Engaged units . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Transaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
3-citizen limit . . . . . . . . . . . .10
version: 2.0
l2ngg$0e

any 2 resources run 
out at the bank
progress cards in play: 
4 cards in a 2-player 
game, 5 cards in a 
total number of char-
acter cards in play: 5 
characters in a 2-player 
game, 8 characters in a 
piles are exhausted
2 explorer token piles 
exhausted
in play: 2 temples in 
a 2-player game, 3 
temples in a 3-player 
total number of char-
acter cards in play: 4 
characters in a 2-player 
game, 5 characters in a 
in play: 3 markets in 
a 2-player game, 4 
in play: 4 markets in 
a 2-player game, 5 
in plays: 4 temples 
in a 2-player game, 
5temples in a 3-player 
in play: 4 towns in a 
2-player game, 5 towns 
Population marker 
 
reaches or exceeds: 20 
citizens in a 2-player 
game, 27 citizens in a 
in play: 3 towns in a 
2-player game, 4 towns 
in play: 3 ports in a 
2-player game, 4 ports 
Population marker 
 
reaches or exceeds: 22 
citizens in a 3-player 
game, etc. (not used in a 
2-player game)
piles exhausted
in play: 4 ports in a 
2-player game, 5 ports 
total number of progress 
cards in play: 5 cards in a 
2-player game, 8 cards 
any 3 resources run 
out at the bank
bank is out of money
number of markets 
number of fish 
resources behind each 
Each player adds 
up the total number 
of iron resources in 
number of character 
number of iron 
resources behind each 
Each player adds up 
the total number of 
wood resources in 
character and progress 
ports and markets 
number of ports 
number of progress 
than 15, the Pacifist 
Separatist: If the 
moves past the popula-
tion marker 
Separatist wins alone.
than 12, the Pacifist 
Separatist: If the 
moves past the popula-
tion marker 
Separatist wins alone.
SHORT GAME 
MEDIUM GAME