August 27, 2025
	
 Contents 
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
What’s in the Box . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Core Concepts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Playing a Chapter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Standard Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Guild Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Ending a Chapter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Other Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Leaders & Lore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Fine Print . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

2 •
	
 Introduction 
In Arcs, you lead a spacefaring society through an epic saga, as you try to survive in the harsh and 
dangerous Reach at the galaxy’s edge. A game of Arcs lasts until someone has enough Power—
essentially points. In games with 4 players, someone needs to have at least 27 Power. With 3 players, 
30 Power. With 2 players, 33 Power. When the game ends, the player with the most Power wins.
You gain Power by completing ambitions, which are objectives that you declare in play. These are 
scored at the end of the chapter, when everyone runs out of action cards. The game lasts a varying 
number of chapters, usually three to five.
Your first game of Arcs will take about 45 minutes per player. After you play a few times, a game 
should take about 30 minutes per player.
If you want to learn Arcs by watching a video, you’ll find a link on the back cover of this rulebook!
	
 What’s in the Box 
Map
The map of the Reach is where the action happens. You can move your ships around it, battle 
Rivals for control over its systems, and tax resources from the cities you build on its planets.
Player Pieces
Each player has the following pieces. The box contains pieces for 4 players.
PLAYER BOARD
This board holds resources, your 
unbuilt cities, and Rival pieces you 
take as Trophies and Captives.
STARPORTS (5)
Starports are built on planets 
and are used to build ships.
CITIES (5)
Cities are built on planets and 
can be taxed to gain resource 
tokens onto your player board.
SHIPS (15) 
Ships can move around the 
map and engage in battles.
AGENTS (10)
Agents are placed on cards in the 
Court, a card row next to the map. 
Once you have the most agents on 
a card in the Court, you can take it. 
POWER MARKER (2)
This marker tracks your current Power 
on the bottom map edge. The second 
marker is used in expansions to track 
negative Power and very high Power.

• 3
Cards
 
2 Players - Frontiers
2a
1b
2b
1a
out of 
out of 
for experienced 
players
 
Elder
Beloved. After defending in batt le, 
you may inﬂ uence if the att acker took 
any Trophies. Rivals cannot Ransack the 
Court when they batt le you.
Just. When you're scoring Tyrant, gain 
no Power for second place, and gain 
Power for second place if you get fi rst 
place. (Don't get bonus city Power.)
 
ACTION (28)
These cards are played to take 
actions and declare ambitions. 
With 2 or 3 players, you don’t use 
the “1” and “7” action cards.
SETUP (12)
(4 each for 2–4 players)
One of these cards is used in setup 
to place players’ starting pieces 
and cover parts of the map.
LEADER (8)
These cards give special powers 
and show a player's starting pieces 
and resources. They are used in 
Leaders & Lore mode (page 21).
 
 
LORE
Tool-Priests
Summon (Build): Once per turn, build 
1 ship at any city you control.
Yes, even Rival cities you control!
 
GUILD (25)
These cards represent the support 
of guildmasters and task forces. They 
are gained from the Court, often 
give new actions, and can be stolen.
VOX (6)
These cards represent incidents in 
the Reach that you can turn to your 
own ends. They are gained from the 
Court and resolve immediately.
LORE (14)
These cards represent long-lost 
technologies and the intangible 
qualities of leadership, charm, and 
rank. They are used in Leaders 
& Lore mode (page 21).
Other Pieces
RESOURCE TOKENS (25) 
(5 each of Material, Fuel, 
Weapons, Relics, Psionic)
Resources represent both assets 
and the people skilled in using 
them. They add to ambitions and 
can be spent for special actions. 
BATTLE DICE (18)
(6 each of Assault, 
Skirmish, Raid)
These dice are used to 
resolve battle.
CHAPTER MARKER
This marker tracks the current 
chapter of the game on the map.
AMBITION MARKERS (3)
These markers show which ambitions 
are currently declared. They start on 
their blue side with lower numbers.
ZERO MARKER
This marker covers the card number 
of the lead card, making it 0, 
when an ambition is declared.
INITIATIVE MARKER
This marker shows which player 
will take the first turn of a round.
 
 Playing a Chapter 
In a chapter, players will play through many rounds until they run out of cards. 
When a chapter ends, players gain Power from declared ambitions. (See the last page.)
In a round, each player takes one turn, starting with the player who has initiative. 
When the round ends, discard all played cards and see whether initiative changes players.
First, the player with the initiative marker takes a turn.
If your hand is empty or you choose not to play a card, pass the initiative clockwise to the 
next player with cards in their hand. They take the first turn of the round instead of you.
Play Lead Card
You must play an action card as the lead card. You may 
take one action per pip on the card in its top-left corner. 
(This card has 4 pips, letting you take 4 actions.) 
Second, each other player in clockwise order takes a turn.
Surpass
Play an action card matching the lead card’s suit but 
with a higher number than it. (Not every played card!) 
You may take one action per pip on your played card.
Pivot
Play any action card that does not match the lead suit. 
You may take one action on your played card. 
(Not on the lead card!)
Copy
Play any action card face down. You may take one 
action of the lead card.
Third, see if initiative changes players, then discard all played cards.
initiative
If someone seized the initiative, they keep it.
If nobody seized the initiative, give the initiative 
marker to the player who played a card to Surpass with 
the highest number. If no one Surpassed the lead card, 
the initiative marker does not change players.
Finally, discard all played cards and start the next round. 
If no one has cards left in their hand, end the chapter.
If you have the initiative, you may declare the ambition shown in the bottom-left 
corner of your card: Place the zero marker over your card’s number but not its pips, 
and put the highest available ambition marker in the matching ambition box on the 
map. (Ambitions are listed on the last page.)
You can seize the initiative marker if you don’t have it and no one has seized it yet 
this round: Play an extra action card face down along with your first and ignore its 
actions, or Surpass with a “7” card (4 players only).
PATH MARKERS (4)
(2 each of long and short)
These are added to the map during 
setup. They cover gates, making 
them out of play and connecting 
the gates of neighboring clusters.
OUT-OF-PLAY 
MARKERS (6)
These are added to the map during 
setup. They cover planets, making 
them out of play for the game.
AID SHEETS (4)
These sheets summarize how to 
play and what actions you can take.

4 •
	
 Setup 
1. Set Up Table
A.	 Place the map and collect the 18 battle 
dice and 25 resource tokens.
B.	 Give the initiative marker 
to a random player.
C.	 Shuffle the 20 action cards marked “2” 
through “6” to start the action deck. 
D.	 4 Players Only: Shuffle the 8 action cards 
marked “1” and “7” into the action deck. 
(Otherwise, return them to the box.)
E.	 Place the 3 ambition markers on their 
blue, lower-numbered sides in the 
Available Markers section of the map.
F.	 Place the chapter marker on the “1” space 
of the Chapter track on the map.
G.	 Place the zero marker in the Ambition 
Declared slot on the map. 
H.	 Shuffle all 6 Vox and 25 Guild cards 
to make the Court deck. Draw 3 cards 
(2 players) or 4 cards (3–4 players) from 
this deck to make a face-up Court row.
I.	 Shuffle the setup cards that list your 
number of players. Draw 1 setup card.
J.	 In the 2 clusters (2–3 players) or 1 cluster 
(4 players) on the map marked Out of Play 
on the setup card, place a path marker over 
its numbered gate and place 3 out-of-play 
markers over the planets touching that gate.
K.	 2 Players Only: Place the 6 resource tokens 
matching the 6 planets covered by out-of-
play markers onto the ambition boxes: 
Material and Fuel go on Tycoon. 
Weapons go on Warlord. 
Relics go on Keeper.
Psionics go on Empath.
4 Players - Mix Up 3
out 
out 
of 
of 
2b
1a
4a
4c
3c
3b
3a
2a
1b
4b
M
I
G
Q
J

• 5
	
  
2. Set Up Players
L.	 Each player chooses a color, collects 
the matching player board, 5 cities, 
5 starports, 15 ships, and 10 agents, 
and places the cities in the triangle slots 
along the top of their player board.
M.	Each player puts their Power marker on 
the “0” Power track space on the map.
N.	 Players simultaneously place their starting 
pieces onto the map as follows. The player 
with the initiative marker does this:
Place 3 ships and 1 city in the system 
marked 1A on the setup card. Place the 
leftmost city from your player board.
Place 3 ships and 1 starport 
in the system marked 1B.
Place 2 ships in the system 
(3–4 players) or 2 systems 
(2 players) marked 1C.
Going clockwise from the player with 
initiative, the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th players 
set up in the same way in the systems 
marked 2A–C, 3A–C, and 4A–C 
on the setup card, respectively.
O.	 Each player gains the 2 resource tokens 
matching the planet icons in their 
A and B systems, putting them in the 
leftmost and next leftmost circle slots 
on their player board, respectively.
P.	 Each player draws 6 action cards into 
their hand. 2 Players Only: The player 
without initiative may discard all 6 action 
cards in their hand and draw 6 new ones. 
Q.	 Discard all action cards not in players’ 
hands into a facedown action discard 
pile on the map, then shuffle it.
EACH PLAYER...
×15
×10
×5
ADMINISTRATION
Tax or Repair or Inﬂ uence
?
?
MOBILIZATION
Move or Inﬂ uence
×5 each
×6 each
E
F
K
D
P
O
H

6 •
	
 Core Concepts 
The Arc of Play
In a game of Arcs, you play through a number of chapters, 
usually three to five. Each chapter is made up of several 
rounds.
Broadly, in a round, each player will take one turn by playing 
an action card to do various actions, starting with the player 
who has initiative. After everyone takes a turn, players check 
who gets initiative for the next round. You’ll learn more in 
Playing a Chapter (page 8)!
Keep playing rounds until everyone runs out of action cards 
in their hand. At this point, the chapter ends, players gain 
Power from ambitions they fulfilled, and everyone draws a 
new hand of cards. You’ll learn more in Ending a Chapter 
(page 18)!
Power & Ambitions
Players gain Power by fulfilling ambitions. The player with 
the initiative marker may choose to declare the ambition 
shown on the action card they play on their turn, marking the 
matching ambition box on the right map edge.
At the end of the chapter, players gain Power from declared 
ambitions that they fulfilled best. It doesn’t matter whether 
another player declared an ambition—anyone can fulfill it.
The Map
The map is made of 6 clusters. Each cluster has 4 systems: 
3 planets and 1 gate, which lists the cluster number.
A system is adjacent to other systems sharing a thin border. 
Adjacency is most important when moving (page 13). 
Each gate is adjacent to the 3 planets in its cluster 
and to the gates of its 2 neighboring clusters.
Each planet is adjacent to the gate in its cluster, and it 
is adjacent to one or both neighboring planets. Planets 
separated by a thick, irregular border are not adjacent.
The center of the map with the Arcs logo is not in play.
In setup, 1 or 2 clusters are covered with out-of-play 
markers on its planets and a path marker on its gate. These 
clusters are out of play in every way. The path marker joins 
together the gates of the two neighboring clusters, allowing 
for movement between them in a single move.
Each planet has a planet type, along with 1 or 2 building 
slots where you can build cities and starports. (Each planet 
also has an ID symbol of 
, or , used in expansions.)
Planet
Gate
Cluster 4
Planet Types
Building Slot
Declaring Ambition

• 7
Resources & Cities
There are 5 types of resources matching the 5 planet types. 
Usually, you gain them by taxing cities (page 12) and raiding 
Rivals in battle (page 16).
Resources can be spent for various actions (page 17), and 
some of them add to the Tycoon, Keeper, and Empath 
ambitions (page 18).
You hold resource tokens in the resource slots on your player 
board. As you build cities, you open resource slots and 
uncover Power bonuses for winning ambitions.
Agents & The Court
Your agents are the bureaucrats and diplomats that administer 
your cities and influence powerful interests in the Reach.
Through play, you can place agents on cards in the Court, a 
row of cards along the edge of the map (Influence, page 13). 
If you have the most agents on a card in the Court, you can 
take it (Secure, page 13).
Damage & Control
Pieces start off fresh—ships are fresh when standing upright, 
and buildings are fresh on their fully colored side. 
By battling, fresh pieces can become damaged, shown by 
flipping or tipping it over. If a damaged piece is damaged 
again, it is destroyed, removing it from the map.
You control a system and its contents if you have more fresh 
ships there than each Rival (other player). On a tie, no one 
controls the system. 
Controlling a system lets you tax Rival cities there and capture 
their agents, restricts how their ships move, and damages 
pieces they build (pages 12–13).
Trophies & Captives
If you destroy a Rival’s pieces, put them in the Trophies box 
on your player board. Trophies add to the Warlord ambition. 
Actions such as Battle (page 14) let you destroy Rival pieces.
If you capture a Rival’s agents, put them in the Captives box 
on your player board. Captives add to the Tyrant ambition. 
Actions such as Tax (page 12) and Secure (page 13) let you 
capture Rival agents.
Taking a Trophy
Tip Ship or Flip 
Building to Damage
Red Has Control
 
Influencing the Court
Resources
Opening Resource Slots

8 •
	  Playing a Chapter 
A game of Arcs lasts up to 5 chapters. In each chapter, you 
play some number of rounds. In a round, each player takes 
one turn, starting with the player with the initiative marker.
Broadly, on your turn, you must play 1 action card, which lets 
you take one or more actions. 
At the end of the round, the initiative marker might go to a 
new player based on which cards were played.
Keep playing rounds until everyone runs out of action cards. 
At this point, the chapter ends (page 18).
Step 1: Player with Initiative 
Takes Turn
As the player with initiative, you must play one action card 
face up as the lead card. You may take one action (pages 
12–16) for each action pip on the lead card based on its suit:
Administration pips can tax, repair, or influence.
Aggression pips can battle, move, or secure.
Construction pips can build or repair.
Mobilization pips can move or influence.
Place the card in the “Lead“ card slot on the left map edge, so 
players can reference it during the round.
Passing Initiative
If you have the initiative, but you have no cards in your hand 
or just choose to skip your turn, you must pass the initiative. 
When you pass the initiative, give the initiative marker to 
the next clockwise player who has any cards in their hand, 
then immediately end the round. The player who now has 
initiative will play the lead card of the new round. 
If everyone with cards in their hand passes consecutively, 
discard all action cards and end the chapter (page 18).
Suit
Action Pips
Mikah has the initiative, so she 
plays the lead card. She plays 
a Construction card, which 
lets her build or repair. 
This card has 3 action pips. 
She spends one to build, 
one to repair, and chooses 
not to take a third action.
Initiative

• 9
Declaring an Ambition 
If you have the initiative, you may declare the ambition 
shown on your lead card before taking any actions:
The “1” cards have no ambition. (Four players only.)
The “2” through 6” cards let you declare the 
matching ambition. (They are listed on page 18.)
The “7” cards let you declare any ambition. 
(Four players only.)
Take the highest-number ambition marker from the Available 
Markers section on the right map edge, and place it in the 
ambition box of the declared ambition.
Place the zero marker onto the lead card to cover the card 
number in its top-left corner—its card number is now 0.
You cannot declare an ambition if all ambitions markers are 
already placed.
Card Number
Zero Marker
Ambition Marker
You can even declare an ambition 
that was declared in an earlier 
round! Just place another 
ambition marker in its box.
Declaring does not change your 
card’s number of action pips.
Before taking her actions, 
Mikah declares the Warlord 
ambition on her card. 
She places the available 
ambition marker worth the 
most Power into the Warlord 
ambition box on the map.
Then she covers the card 
number on her card with the 
zero marker, setting it to 0. 
She still gets 3 action pips!
You cannot declare an 
ambition multiple times 
using the same card.
Warlord Symbol
CON

10 •
Step 2: Other Players 
Take Turns
After the player with initiative takes their turn, each other 
player in clockwise order takes a turn. Players with no cards in 
their hand skip their turn.
On your turn, you must play an action card in one of three ways:
Surpass: Play an action card face up of the lead 
card’s suit. Its card number must be higher 
than the lead card. You may take actions up to 
the number of action pips on your card.
Copy: Play any action card face down. You 
may take only one action of the lead card.
Pivot: Play an action card face up that is not of 
the lead card’s suit. It can have any card number. 
You may take only one action on your card.
Place the card in the “Surpass, Copy, or Pivot“ card slot on the 
left map edge, so players can reference it during the round.
Seizing the Initiative
When you play a card, before taking any actions, you can 
seize the initiative marker from the player who holds it. 
There are two ways to do this:
You may choose to play an extra action card. 
Place it face down beside the card you played 
as a reminder. You do not get actions for it.
You Surpass with a “7” action card. You still get to take 
its actions. (Only four-player games have “7” cards.)
Take the initiative marker and lay it down to show it is seized. 
For the rest of this round, players cannot seize the initiative.
The player with initiative cannot seize the initiative.
Pivot - 1 Action!
Surpass - 2 Actions!
Surpassing only needs a 
card higher than the lead 
card, not all played cards!
Pivoting does not 
change the lead suit.
After Mikah played her 
Construction card to lead the 
round, Dane takes his turn. He 
plays an Aggression card to 
Pivot and chooses to move. 
Lotus takes the next turn by 
playing a “5” Construction 
card. It matches the lead suit 
of Construction and its card 
number is higher than "0," so 
they Surpass and build twice.
If the initiative is seized, you can 
still Surpass with a “7” card—you 
just won’t seize the initiative.
To Surpass, you must 
match the lead suit!

• 11
Step 3: Check Initiative
After everyone has taken a turn, check whether the initiative 
marker goes to a new player.
If no one seized the initiative this round, give the initiative to 
the player who Surpassed with the highest card number. 
If no one Surpassed, the initiative stays with its holder.
If someone seized the initiative this round, that player keeps 
the initiative.
Step 4: Discard Cards & 
Check for New Round
Discard all played action cards, and any action card used to 
seize the initiative, into the action discard pile on the map 
face down.
If any players have any action cards left in their hand, start the 
next round. Otherwise, end the chapter (page 18).
Card Number
Lotus played the highest 
Construction card to 
Surpass this round. 
Nobody seized the 
initiative, so Lotus takes 
the initiative marker.
>

12 •
	  Standard Actions 
Tax (administration)
Choose a Loyal city or choose a Rival city you control.
Gain 1 resource of the city’s planet type from the supply. 
If you tax a Rival city, you also capture 1 agent of that Rival 
from their supply, even if you didn’t gain the resource.
Tax Limit: You cannot tax a city more than once per turn.
Captives: Place captured agents in the Captives box on your 
player board. They add to your Tyrant ambition (page 18).
Build (construction)
You may build a building or a ship:
Building: Place 1 starport or city in an empty building 
slot in a system with a Loyal piece. When building 
a city, use the leftmost city on your player board.
Ship: Place 1 ship at a Loyal starport. 
Each starport can only build one ship per turn.
When you build anything in a system that is controlled by 
anyone other than you, place the piece damaged.
Damaged ships are tipped over, 
and damaged buildings are 
flipped to their darker side.
Loyal pieces are your color. 
Rival pieces are other 
players’ colors.
Control means you have the 
most fresh ships in the system.
Resources you gain go in empty 
resource slots on your player 
board—see Resources (page 17). 
Mikah taxes twice—one Material 
city of her own and one of Dane’s 
Psionic cities, which she controls.
She gains 1 Material and 
1 Psionic. Because she taxed 
Dane’s city, she places 1 
agent from Dane’s supply 
into her Captives box.
Dane builds twice. First, he 
builds a starport at a planet 
where he has a ship.
Then he builds a ship. He can 
place the ship at any of his 
starports, so he places it at 
the starport he just built.

• 13
Move (Mobilization & Aggression)
Move any number of Loyal ships from one system to an 
adjacent system.
If you move from a system with a Loyal starport, you may 
take Catapult moves—keep moving the ships as much as you 
want, dropping them off as you want, until they move to a 
gate controlled by anyone else or they move to any planet.
Out-of-Play Clusters: You cannot move into any systems in 
out-of-play clusters. The path marker placed on out-of-play 
gates makes its two neighboring gates adjacent.
Repair (Construction & Administration)
Stand up 1 damaged Loyal ship, or flip over 1 damaged Loyal 
building. (This can be anywhere on the map!)
Influence (Mobilization & Administration)
Place 1 agent on any card in the Court. (The Court is the card 
row along the map edge.)
Secure (Aggression)
Take 1 card from the Court if you have more Loyal agents on 
it than each Rival. Return all Loyal agents on it to your supply, 
and capture all Rival agents from the secured card.
Resolve its When Secured action, if any. If it says to discard it, 
place it in a face-up Court discard pile near the Court deck.
Finally, draw a card from the Court deck and place it face up 
in the Court in the same spot as the secured card.
Captives: Put agents you capture in the Captives box on your 
player board. They add to your Tyrant ambition (page 18).
You can’t immediately use 
Prelude actions on the 
secured card (page 20).
A system can be a gate 
or a planet (page 6). 
Systems sharing a single 
thin border are adjacent.
When you take a Catapult 
move, check for control 
before moving in, not after.
You can’t Catapult from Rival 
starports you control.
Lotus moves 2 Loyal ships 
from a Loyal starport, so they 
take Catapult moves.
They move from the planet 
into the "4" gate. Normally 
they would end the move 
here, but the Catapult 
lets them move more.
They move through the path to 
the "5" gate, but it is controlled 
by Mikah, so they stop moving. 
Lotus will have to take another 
Move action to keep moving.

14 •
Battle (Aggression)
1.	 Choose Battle System: Choose 1 system that has any 
Loyal ships. This is the battle system. These are your 
attacking ships.
2.	 Choose Defender: Choose 1 Rival whose pieces are in 
the battle system. These are their defending pieces.
3.	 Collect Dice: For each attacking ship, you may collect 
1 assault, skirmish, or raid die.
Assault dice damage the defender 
quickly at some cost to you.
Skirmish dice damage the defender 
slowly but keep you safe.
Raid dice steal stuff from the defender 
and might damage them but are risky.
Raid Dice Limit: You can only collect raid dice if there 
are defending buildings or if the defender has no Loyal 
buildings in any systems on the map.
4.	 Roll and Resolve Dice: Roll the collected dice. 
You must resolve all rolled faces in this order:
1.	 Hit any of your attacking ships once per 
2.	 If you rolled any number of 
, the defender 
intercepts you—hit any of your attacking ships 
once per fresh defending ship. (This can only 
happen once per battle!)
3.	 Hit any of their defending ships once per 
Once no defending ships remain, hit any of their 
defending buildings instead.
4.	 Hit any of their defending buildings once per 
5.	 Raid their resources and cards by spending 
if you have any attacking ships left (Raiding, 
page 16).
If you hit a fresh piece, it becomes damaged—tip it over if 
it’s a ship or flip it over if it’s a building.
If you hit a damaged piece, it is destroyed—remove it. 
The attacker takes destroyed defending pieces as Trophies. 
The defender takes destroyed attacking pieces as Trophies. 
Trophies: Place pieces taken as Trophies in the Trophies 
box on the respective player board. These add to the Warlord 
ambition (page 18).
A system can be a gate 
or a planet (page 6).
You may collect fewer dice than 
the maximum, and you may mix 
types, but you cannot collect 
more than 6 dice of a type.
To be clear, the attacker 
rolls and resolves all the 
dice. The defender doesn’t 
usually make choices.
Assault
Skirmish
Raid
Hit Your Ships
Intercept 
Your Ships
Then...
Hit Ships First 
then buildings if 
no ships remain
Hit Buildings
Then...
Raid Cards 
& Resources

Mikah is battling Lotus at a Relic 
planet. Mikah has 4 fresh ships. 
Lotus has 1 fresh ship, 2 damaged 
ships, and 1 damaged city. 
Mikah can collect up to 
4 dice. She collects 2 assault 
dice and 2 raid dice.
She rolls the dice and gets 
First, Mikah must take hits. She 
takes 2 hits—1 from the 
and 1 from the 
 because 
Lotus has 1 fresh ship. Mikah 
chooses to damage two of her 
ships instead of destroying one.
Next, Mikah deals hits. 
With the 
 , Mikah chooses to 
damage Lotus’s last fresh ship. 
With the 
 , Mikah must 
damage Lotus’s city, destroying 
it. It goes in Mikah’s Trophies box. 

16 •
Destroying Cities
If you destroy a city—even outside battle!—do the following:
1.	 Provoke Outrage. Discard all resources and Guild 
cards you have of that city’s planet type, placing the 
discarded cards in a face-up Court discard pile near the 
Court deck. Place an agent to cover the Outrage icon 
of that city’s planet type on your player board—that 
resource is now Outraged­ (see below).
2.	 Ransack the Court. Secure any card that has any 
number of the defender’s agents. Take all Rival agents 
on the card as Trophies, not Captives. 
Outrage: You cannot spend Outraged resources for their 
normal Prelude action (page 17).
Raiding
If any attacking ships remain after taking hits, you may spend 
 you rolled to steal resources and Guild cards from the 
defender, one at a time, by spending the number of 
 in 
its raid cost, shown above the resource slot on the player 
board or in the top-left corner of the Guild card (page 17).
You can still tax Outraged 
resources and add them 
to your ambitions.
If you have no Loyal agents, 
use a placeholder piece until 
an agent becomes available.
If you already have Outrage of 
the city’s type, perform both 
steps except placing the agent.
Because she destroyed a Relic 
city, Mikah discards all her Relics 
and Relic Guild cards, then covers 
her Relic icon with an agent.
Then, Mikah takes a card from the 
Court where Lotus has 1 agent. 
She takes all 3 Rival agents there 
into her Trophies box. Finally, 
she draws a card from the Court 
deck to refill the Court row.
Mikah spends her 
 
 to steal 1 Material 
and 1 Weapon from 
Lotus’s player board. 
If she had rolled one more 
 she could have stolen 
the Relic instead.
+

• 17
	
 Resources 
In your turn’s Prelude (page 20), you may spend any number 
and mix of your resource tokens to optionally use their actions:
Material: Take a Build or Repair action.
Fuel: Take a Move action.
Weapon: This turn, you may spend any action 
pips from your card play to take Battle actions.
Relic: Take a Secure action.
Psionic: Take an action listed on the lead card.
Resources are held in resource slots. When you take a 
resource, place it in an empty resource slot of yours. To do 
this, you may rearrange any resources in your resource slots, 
but you must discard resources you cannot hold.
If a city returns to your player board and covers a resource 
slot, rearrange and discard resources as described above.
Each resource slot has a raid cost: the number of 
 that the 
attacker in battle must spend to steal the resource.
Some cards say they hold resources. These resources can be 
spent and add to ambitions, but they cannot be stolen in battle 
unless explicitly allowed. If a card holding resources is stolen, 
the resources on the card stay on it. If it is buried, discarded or 
scrapped, the resources on it return to the supply.
	
 Guild Cards 
You can gain Guild cards by influencing them in the Court and 
then securing them (page 13). 
Guild cards have 3 parts: their suit, rules, and raid cost.
Suit: This suit icon matches 1 of the 5 resources. It adds to 
ambitions just like resources—Material and Fuel cards add to 
the Tycoon ambition, Relic cards add to the Keeper ambition, 
and Psionic cards add to the Empath ambition. Weapon cards 
do not add to any ambitions.
Rules: Guild cards give new actions and modifiers (page 20).
Raid Cost: This shows how many 
 an attacker must spend 
in battle in order to steal the card.
Suit
For Weapons, act like 
you add "or Battle" to the 
relevant played card.
Weapons cannot turn 
actions from other resources 
into Battle actions.
Your Prelude begins when 
you play an action card and 
ends when you spend any 
action pips from the card. 
You can’t spend resources 
if you pass the initiative 
or have no cards. 
You can open resource 
slots by building cities!
Fuel in a Slot
Empty Slot

18 •
	
 Ending a Chapter 
The chapter ends when everyone runs out of action cards or 
when everyone with cards passes the initiative. 
When the chapter ends, resolve the following steps.
Step 1: Score Ambitions
Score each ambition that has any number of ambition markers 
in its ambition box on the map:
Tycoon. Have the most total Fuel and Material 
icons from resources and Guild cards.
Tyrant. Have the most Captives on your player 
board (gained from taxing and securing).
Warlord. Have the most Trophies on your 
player board (gained in battle).
Keeper. Have the most Relic icons 
from resources and Guild cards.
Empath. Have the most Psionic icons 
from resources and Guild cards.
The player who gets first place for the ambition gains the 
higher Power shown on all its ambition markers. 
The player who gets second place for it gains the lower 
Power shown on all its ambition markers.
Show the Power you gained by advancing your Power marker 
on the Power track on the bottom edge of the map.
Ties: On a tie for first place, tied players get second place. 
(Other players do not place and gain no Power.) On a tie for 
second place, tied players do not place and gain no Power.
Qualifying: You cannot gain Power from an ambition if you 
have none of the thing it is counting. (For example, if Warlord 
is declared and nobody has Trophies, nobody gains Power.)
Bonus City Power: Each time you get first place in an 
ambition (not tied), gain 2 extra Power if the “+2 to won 
ambitions” city slot on your player board is uncovered, or gain 
5 extra if both the “+2 to won ambitions” and “+3 to won 
ambitions” city slots on your player board are uncovered.
Tycoon is worth 7 Power. Mikah 
has 1 Fuel and 1 Material Guild 
card, and Dane has 2 Material. 
They tie and each gain 3 Power.
Mikah could have gained 
2 more Power from her +2 to 
Won Ambitions slot, but does 
not because she tied for first.
You can only gain bonus 
Power once per ambition, 
regardless of how many 
ambition markers it has.
Bonus City Power
Tycoon Ambition Box
Trophies and Captives Boxes
First Place
Second Place 
or Tied for First
X

• 19
Starports and ships return 
to their players’ supplies.
Cities return to the rightmost 
empty city slot on their 
original player boards.
Two-Player Scoring
During setup with 2 players, 6 resources matching the planets 
with out-of-play markers are placed on the ambition boxes.
For scoring, count these resources as if a third player had 
them. Weapons on the Warlord box count as Trophies. 
Otherwise, these resources are out of play.
Step 2: Clean Up 
& Flip Ambition
If Warlord was scored, return all Trophies. If Tyrant was 
scored, return all Captives.
Return all ambition markers to the Available Markers spaces 
on the map.
Flip over the ambition marker with the lowest Power that 
hasn’t been flipped yet to its side with more Power.
Step 3: End Game or 
Advance Chapter
The game ends if any player has at least 27 Power 
(4 players), 30 Power (3 players), or 33 Power (2 players), 
or if the chapter marker is currently on Chapter 5.
If the game ends, the player with the most Power is the 
winner. On a tie, the tied player earliest in turn order 
is the winner.
If the game does not end, advance the chapter marker 
to the next space.
Step 4: Draw Cards
Shuffle all of the action cards. Each player draws a hand of 
6 action cards.
Discard all action cards not in players’ hands into the action 
discard pile on the map face down, then shuffle it.
The player with initiative starts the next chapter!
Two-Player Mulligans
In games with 2 players, after drawing, the player without 
initiative may discard their hand of 6 action cards to draw a 
new hand of 6 action cards. They must accept this new hand.
Six Cards!

20 •
Before Prelude actions, you must 
choose whether or not to declare 
an ambition or seize the initiative.
For example, the Living 
Structures lore card says 
"Nurture (Build): Tax a Loyal 
city." In this case, build modifiers 
do not modify Nurture, but 
tax modifiers do modify the 
Tax action it contains.
For example, if you spend an 
action pip to take the Battle 
action, you can Assassinate 
instead. You can even do 
this if you spent a Weapon in 
your Prelude to allow this.
	
 Other Actions 
Prelude Actions
Many cards and all resources (page 17) give Prelude actions. 
On cards, these actions begin with “Prelude:“ 
Your Prelude begins once you play an action card and ends 
once you spend an action pip from your played card. You can 
take any number of Prelude actions, with two limits:
Resources spent in Prelude return to the 
supply at the end of your Prelude, so 
you cannot regain them until then.
You cannot use Prelude actions on cards that you 
secured from the Court in the same Prelude.
Some Prelude actions on cards make you discard the card. 
Place it in a face-up Court discard pile near the Court deck.
New Actions
Cards can give you a new action followed by the name of a 
standard action in parentheses, such as Assassinate (Battle).
When you would take the standard action by spending an 
action pip or a resource, you may instead take the new action.
Modifiers
Cards can give you modifiers to standard actions, which 
are shown in bold, such as “In battle, collect 1 extra die.“ 
Modifiers do not modify new actions, but they do modify 
standard actions that are within new actions.
Modifiers can also affect critical play steps, such as setup 
(pages 4–5), scoring (Step 1, page 18), declare an ambition 
(page 9), and seize the initiative (page 10).

• 21
The Mystic starts with a 
Psionic and a Relic. 
They have initiative, so they 
place 3 ships and a city in 
1A, 3 ships and a starport 
in 1B, and 2 ships in 1C.
You can set up with as many 
lore cards as you want, but you 
run the risk of overwhelming 
everyone. Be careful!
	
 Leaders & Lore 
After playing a game or two, you’re ready to play with 
Leaders and Lore! This mode gives players wild, unique 
abilities, but they can be hard to handle if you’re starting out. 
Really, don’t play your first game with Leaders and Lore.
Your leader card gives you unique powers, 
starting pieces, and starting resources.
Lore cards give persistent powers. They don’t 
have a guild icon or raid cost, so they do not 
add to ambitions and cannot be stolen.
Setup
Replace Steps N–O of setup (page 5) with the following: 
Lay out lore cards and leader cards in face-up rows, each 
with cards equal to the players plus one.
In reverse turn order—start with the player to the right of the 
player with initiative, and go counterclockwise—each player 
may take 1 leader or lore card. 
Continue this until each player has 1 leader card and 1 lore 
card. You cannot take a leader card if you already have one, 
and you cannot take a lore card if you already have one.
Each player places their starting pieces onto the map in the 
systems marked on the setup card as shown in the A, B, and 
C boxes shown on their leader card. Pips under a ship icon 
show how many ships to place.
Each player gains the 2 resource tokens shown on their 
leader card, placing them in their 2 leftmost resource slots in 
the order shown.
Finally, if any leaders have extra setup steps, players perform 
them in turn order.
If you want to increase chaos and uniqueness even more, you 
can let players choose a second lore card. Just add 1 extra 
lore card per player to the starting row, and keep choosing 
cards until each player has 1 leader card and 2 lore cards.
LORE
Tool-Priests
Summon (Build): Once per turn, build 
1 ship at any city you control.
Yes, even Rival cities you control!
Lore Card
Mystic
At uned. When you Copy or Pivot in 
order to tax, you gain 1 Psionic along 
with the taxed resource.
Cryptic. In setup, place agents on your 
Material and Fuel Outrage slots on your 
player board.
Leader’s Starting 
Resources and Pieces
Mystic
At uned. When you Copy or Pivot in 
order to tax, you gain 1 Psionic along 
with the taxed resource.
Cryptic. In setup, place agents on your 
Material and Fuel Outrage slots on your 
player board.

22 •
	
 Fine Print 
Rules Hierarchy
This rulebook supersedes the aid sheets and 
player boards. 
Cards supersede this rulebook, but any rule that 
uses the term cannot is absolute—it cannot be 
superseded unless explicitly named using the 
term ignore. (For example, “You ignore Outrage 
when spending Material for its Prelude action.”)
Sidebars as well as text written in italics and 
parentheses (like this) are clarifications and 
reminders, which are superseded by the core 
rules they reference.
Negotiations
Players may make deals and promises, but they 
are not binding. Players cannot give each other 
pieces unless a rule allows it.
Private Information
Players cannot show the action cards in their 
hand to anyone else.
Turn Etiquette
Though declaring an ambition and seizing the 
initiative happen before any other actions, we 
usually let people do them during their turn as 
long as new info hasn’t been revealed—such as 
rolling dice or drawing a card—and any relevant 
modifiers are followed. Don’t get bogged down 
in technicalities unless it changes the game. 
Arcs thrives when the game flows!
Split Discard Piles
Normally, all action cards are discarded face 
down, even ones played face up. This speeds 
up play but it favors players with good memory. 
If you’re running a tournament or want a more 
strategic but slower game, you can split the action 
discard into two piles—one for cards played face 
down, and one for cards played face up. 
If you’re prompted to draw from the action 
discard pile, draw from the facedown pile. 
In the rare circumstance that it doesn’t have 
enough cards, shuffle the piles together first.
This section covers some technical parts of play.
Tiebreakers & 
Choice Order
If you have a tie and its tiebreaker is not 
specified, break the tie in turn order. Likewise, 
if players must make a decision in an unclear 
order, resolve it in turn order. (Start with the 
player with initiative and go clockwise.)
If multiple things happen at the same time but 
must be resolved in order, the player taking 
their turn chooses their order. If no one is taking 
a turn, the player with initiative chooses.
Elimination & 
Concession
Rarely, a player will have no starports or ships 
on the map. If this happens, they place 3 fresh 
ships in any gate at the end of their turn.
Sometimes, usually in games with 2 players, it 
may become clear that a player has won. Feel 
free to concede!
Pieces & Piece Limits
Pieces are limited by the contents of the box 
with one exception: if you need an agent to 
place on an Outrage slot but none are in your 
supply, use a placeholder piece until an agent 
enters your supply, then place the agent.
If a rule makes you place pieces, this refers to 
fresh Loyal pieces by default. 
Pieces that you place and return come from and 
go to their original supply by default except for 
cities: cities come from and go to the rightmost 
empty city slot on their original player board. 
(Remember, pieces often go to Trophies and 
Captives instead of back to supplies.)
If you must place or return more pieces than 
possible, do the maximum possible.
If you replace a piece, return it and place 
another piece in its place. If the old piece was 
damaged, the new piece is placed damaged. 
(Replacing a piece does not destroy it.)

• 23
	
 Glossary 
Adjacent: Shares a thin border (The Map, page 6).
Building: Cities and starports.
Bury: Place on the bottom of the Court deck.
Capture: Place the prompted piece in the Captives 
box on your player board.
Chapter: The time in which players play rounds until 
they all run out of action cards.
Clear: Return all pieces from the prompted area.
Control: You control a system and its contents if you 
have more fresh ships there than each Rival. On a tie, 
no one controls the system.
Damaged: Not fresh—a tipped ship or a building on 
its darker side.
Destroy: Return a fresh or damaged piece from 
the map. (It often goes to a Trophies box.)
Empty: Has no pieces in or on it.
Fresh: Not damaged—an upright ship or a building 
on its lighter side.
Gain: Add the specified piece to your play area from 
its supply. (You can’t gain it if its supply is empty.)
Give: Add the specified piece to a Rival play area.
Hit: Tip over a fresh piece on the map, or remove a 
damaged piece from the map.
Loyal: Of your player color.
Out of Play: Cannot be interacted with.
Piece: Any component in the game.
Place: See Pieces & Piece Limits (page 22).
Play Area: On and around your player board. 
(Most pieces go in specific parts of your play area.)
Prelude: See Prelude Actions (page 20).
Replace, Return: See Pieces & Piece Limits 
(page 22).
Rival: Of another player’s color. When used alone, 
refers to another player.
Round: The time in which each player takes a turn.
Scrap: Make out of play permanently.
Seize the Initiative: Take the initiative marker. You 
cannot do this if you have the initiative marker or if 
someone has already seized the initiative this round.
Spend: When referring to a resource, return the 
spent resource to its supply.
Steal: Add the specified piece to your play area 
from a Rival’s play area. (This is distinct from take 
because some rules prevent stealing.)
Supply: The general supply holds resources and 
other shared pieces, and players’ supplies hold their 
Loyal ships and agents.
Swap: Give the prompted piece and take the 
prompted piece at the same time.
Take: Add the specified piece to your play area.
Turn: The time in which a player plays an action card 
and may take actions.
Turn Order: Starting with the player with initiative 
and going clockwise.
	
 Credits 
Game Design: Cole Wehrle
Illustration: Kyle Ferrin
Editing: Joshua Yearsley
Graphic Design: Pati Hyun (lead) with Kyle Ferrin, 
Cole Wehrle, and Joshua Yearsley
Development: Cole Wehrle and Joshua Yearsley 
(co-leads) with Nick Brachmann
Contractors & Summer Interns: Cory DeVore (3d modeler), Jeff 
Fraser (usability read moderator), George Georgeadis (Kickstarter 
video producer), Emily Mattingley (graphic design assistant), Alita 
Robertson (production assistant), Amanda Valentine (copy-editor); 
Q. Bryant and Dylan Kistler (production interns); Sam Buan, 
Michael Cauthorn, and Finn Powers-Tiffin (playtesting interns)
Staff at Printing: Nick Brachmann, Clayton Capra, Ted Caya, Liz 
Davidson, Claire Donaghue, Kyle Ferrin, Andrea Francisco, Megan 
Ganey, Pati Hyun, Anne Kinner, Patrick Leder, Matt Martens, 
Brooke Nelson, Alita Robertson, Caryl Tan, Cole Wehrle, and 
Joshua Yearsley
Playtesting & Usability Reading: Nathan Adams, Jo Attwood, 
Celena Baker, Dominik Batók, Todd Berman, Q. Bryant, Sam Buan, 
Cat Bult, Christina Berkley, Luke Bridwell, Ran C, Brenda Carrasco, 
Michael Cauthorn, Lili Chin, Jacob Church, Joshua Clark Orkin, 
Benjamin Cochrane, Justin Dowd and the Brass Cat crew, Erin, 
Zane Fisher, Andrew Grimes, Tonke Groot, Lily Gould, Daniel 
Hallinan, Haze, Sophia Hercher, April Higgins, Kevin Hulse, John 
Keller, Dylan Kistler, Ben Lang, Patrick Lefebvre, JC Lumsargis, 
Jai Manacsa, jermcurry, Jules Marciano, Vixen Martin, Arthur 
McCool, Kirby Morris, Caitlin Moran, Joe Moran, Paul Mussoni, 
Elias Nichols, Hung Nguyen, Nathaniel Olin, Mark Overstreet, 
Finn Powers-Tiffin, Daniel Preston, Kristopher Reynolds, Alita 
Robertson, Arden Rogow-Bales, Malachi Ray Rempen, Evan 
Rowland, Guerric Samples, Marius Schneider, Jaden Servant, S.P. 
Shaman, Sarah Shirley (Sarai), Mar Hepto, Matilda Simonsson, 
Charles Simon, Nicole Smith, Matt Snow, Kiaran Smalldon, Frack 
the Snail, Francis Snyder, Rho Sternjäger, turmoilbyrd, uropb, 
Samuel Vriezen, Steve Owen, Jackson Wray, Drew Wehrle, Chris 
Weidner, and many more!

24 •
	
 Index 
Actions, 8, 10, 20
	 Battle, 14
	 Build, 12
	 Influence, 13
	 Move, 13
	 Repair, 13
	 Secure, 13
	 Tax, 12
Action cards, 8–11
Adjacency, 6 (The Map)
Ambitions, 18
	 Declaring, 9
	 Scoring, 18
Cannot, 22 (Rules Hierarchy)
Captives, 7 
	 And Tyrant scoring, 18
	 Taking, 12 (Tax), 
13 (Secure)
	 Returning, 19 (Step 2)
Cities
	 Power bonuses from, 18
	 Resource slots from, 7
	 Taxing resources from, 12 
(Tax)
Clusters, 6 (The Map)
Control, 7
	 And building damaged, 12
	 And Catapult moves, 13
	 And taxing Rivals, 12
Court, 7
	 Placing agents on, 13 
(Influence)
	 Ransacking, 16
	 Securing cards from, 13 
(Secure)
Damage
	 And control, 7
	 Dealing and taking, 14
	 Repairing, 13 (Repair)
Dice symbols, 14
Gates, 6 (The Map)
Guild cards, 17
Hits, 14
Initiative
	 Changing at round end, 11
	 Passing, 8
	 Seizing, 10
Intercept, 14 (Step 4.2)
Leader and lore cards, 21
Map, 6
Negotiations, 22
Outrage, 16
Passing initiative, 8
Pieces
	 Building, 12
	 Damaging and destroying, 
7, 14
	 Limits of, 22
Planets, 6 (The Map)
Power, 18–19
Prelude actions, 20
Provoking Outrage, 16
Raid cost, 16, 17
Raiding, 16
	 Dice limits of, 14
Resources, 17
Seizing the initiative, 10
Starports
	 Building ships with, 12
	 Catapult moves from, 13
Systems, 6 (The Map)
	 Adjacency of, 6
	 Moving among, 13 (Move)
Tiebreakers, 22
Trophies, 7
	 And Warlord scoring, 18
	 Taking, 7, 14
	 Returning, 19 (Step 2)
Two-player games, 4, 19
Need a replacement part? 
ledergames.com/replacements
Learn more about Arcs! 
ledergames.com/arcs
Learn Fast, 
Play Fast!
If you’d like to learn Arcs 
by watching a how-to-play 
video, use the QR code 
below. You can also find 
it in the Resource section 
for Arcs on our site: 
ledergames.com/arcs