Designed by 
Trey Chambers
Character and Item Art 
Eunice Tiu (Nokomento)
Environment Art
Jennifer Easley
Logo Design
Fábio Fontes
Graphic Design
D. Brad Talton Jr.
Presented by
Argent: The Consortium, World of Indines, 
all characters, logos, designs, and names are 
© 2017 by Level 99 Games LLC. All rights reserved.
Playtesters & Proof Readers
Taylor Chambers, Charles Washington, Will Ghomi, 
Jeremy Dilbeck, Mark Bohenik, Eric Reuss, Astro 
Evora, Mike Waleke, Tori Waleke, Rodney Acevedo, 
David Diaz, Wes Hilton, Michael Morley, Trent Hamm, 
Aaron Mandible, Peter Bemis, Jeff Hathorn, John Kirk, 
Ty Arnold, Kier Arnold, John Celino, Jesse Rexroad, 
Joshua Van Laningham, Christopher Smith, Ben May-
Day, Samuel Tapper, Michael Robles, Lou Lessing, Will 
Case, Steve Hajducko, Chris Fernandez aka Slynkers, A. 
Mandible, Wes Hilton, Michael Denman, Jason Swafford, 
Jeffrey Drozek-Fitzwater, Sasha Jones, Daniel Kester, 
Kevin Walsh, Ori Avtalion, and Jacob Kam.
Special Thanks
Sarah Statham, Trent Chambers, Dustin Young, Star 
Chacko, and everyone else who played the prototypes at 
conventions and elsewhere!
Learn more about Argent by visiting
www.level99games.com/games/argent
Chancellor Nostros Calahaan of Argent University has made the startling announcement that he will relinquish his 
post exactly one week from today. As an influential member of the university staff, this is just the opportunity you’ve been 
waiting for. A secret consortium of voters is being called together from all across the world to elect the new Chancellor, and 
you have just this one week to secure your hold over the University before this vote takes place. 
But you’re not alone in these ambitions–others in the University would like nothing more than to fill the vacuum of 
power themselves. Only the most cunning and powerful among you will be elected by the Consortium as the new Chancellor 
of Argent–the most influential mage in the World of Indines.

Game Materials
•	 36 Oversized Spell Cards
•	 6 Candidate Starter Spells 
•	 25 Spell Cards
•	 5 Legendary Spells
•	 108 Standard Sized Cards
•	 36 Supporter Cards
•	 38 Vault Cards
•	 18 Consortium Voter Cards
•	 5 Bell Tower Offering Cards
•	 6 Round Cards
•	 5 Mage Power Reference Cards
Skip the Rules, Watch the Tutorial!
Don’t want to read through the rulebook? You can dive right in to Argent: the Consortium 
with an online video tutorial! Just use this QR code or visit the website below to learn how to set 
up and play the game in minutes.
www.level99games.com/games/argent-the-consortium
Argent: the Consortium is part of the World of Indines
The World of Indines is a growing fantasy world with a cast of vibrant, 
recurring characters. Many of the characters in Argent: the Consortium appear 
elsewhere in the games in this series. Duel against Byron Krane in BattleCON, 
have Rheye Cal lead your forces into battle in Pixel Tactics, and more! Visit 
www.worldofindines.com to learn more about the complete collection!
42 Loyalty Badges, 7 each in 6 different colors
6 Influence Tokens
60 Marks, 10 each of 6 different colors
1 First Player 
Marker
1 Astronomy 
Tower Marker
4 Room Lock 
Markers
35 Mage Pawns, represented by their hats in 
the icons in the game. From left to right:
1 Archmage’s Apprentice
4 Neutral Mages
6 Planar Studies Mages
6 Divinity Mages
6 Mysticism Mages
6 Natural Magick Mages
6 Sorcery Mages
50 Plastic Mana Crystals
represented by a Potion 
icon in the game.
40 Plastic Coins 
30 Silver Coins (1 Gold)
10 Golden Coins (5 Gold)
27 Intelligence 
Tokens
27 Wisdom 
Tokens
19 Merit 
Badge Tokens
Gain 3 Buys
As a Buy, you may buy 1 INT, 1 
WIS, or 1 Research for 4 Gold.
15 double-sided 
University Board Tiles
6 double-sided 
Candidate Sheets
Consortium Board and Influence Tracker

Core Ideas
There are a few big ideas at work in Consortium. Take a 
moment to look over them before you dive in.
Overview
The goal of the game is to acquire the most votes from 
Consortium Voters. After the fifth round, each of the voters 
will cast their vote according to a specific criteria, such as 
most Mana, most Gold, most Spell Research, and so forth. 
During the game rounds, you will need to send out your 
Mages to learn the secret voting criteria, then carry out 
these goals to the best of your ability. The player who is 
able to acquire the most votes wins!
Secret Voters
At the end of the game, the Consortium votes to see 
who will be the next Chancellor of Argent. 
Marks ( ) then Influence Points ( ) are the tiebreakers 
for votes, but votes are what determine the actual winner.
However, the membership of the Consortium is kept a 
secret–you will have to use your Spells and your Mages to 
spy and find out who the voters are and how they will vote, 
then use that information to your advantage.
Mages
The best and most important way to get ahead of your 
rivals is by using Mages loyal to you to perform Errands. 
The number of Mages that can perform each task is small, 
so you will often be fighting with your opponents over 
these limited slots. Placing Mages is the most common 
action you will take on your turns.
Each kind of Mage has a different power, and you can 
get any kind of Mage to work for you, even if they are not 
from the department your candidate represents.
Spells & Vaults & Supporters
There are three types of cards in the game: Spells, Vaults, 
and Supporters. Each of these are acquired in different 
ways, but all have special effects that will give you an edge 
against rivals.
Variable Round Length
On each turn you will be able to take any action, 
including taking an offering from the Bell Tower near the 
University Board. Once the last Bell Tower offering is taken, 
the round ends and your Mages perform their errands.
Personal Discard Piles
Each player will manage their own discard pile during 
the game. Certain cards you use will go to your personal 
discard, so they will still count towards your victory at the 
end, even after you use them!
University Room Tiles
Each room of the University works differently, but 
most rooms will have slots for you to send your Mages on 
Errands. Through these Errands you will win the votes 
of the members of the Consortium and become the next 
Chancellor!
1.	Name – The room’s name. If the room takes effect 
instantly, it will have an Instant Room (
) Icon beside it.
2.	Errand Slots – These places hold a single Mage, who 
will carry out that errand at the end of the round.
3.	Shadow Errand Slots – These slots hold a single 
shadowing Mage, which can be placed via special effects.
4.	Errand Effects – These are the effects of each slot.
5.	A/B Side - Every room has two sides. The A sides are 
generally more straightforward than the B sides.
University Central
The three University rooms with white borders are 
called University Central (Council Chamber, Library, and 
Infirmary). These three rooms are in every game. The rest 
of the rooms in a given game are decided randomly, by 
shuffling the tiles together and dealing them out.
A and B Sides
Each room in the University has two sides. For a more 
straightforward game (or for your first game), you should 
use just the A sides. Once you are experienced at the basics 
of Argent, you can randomly shuffle the tiles and use any 
combination of A and B sides, or even create your own ‘pre-
made’ layouts to facilitate specific styles of play.

Candidate Sheet
Your Candidate Sheet contains all relevant information 
for your Candidate. It has a few notable parts:
1.	Name – The Candidate’s name and current position 
at the University.
2.	Starting Items – This section shows what gold, mana, 
stats, and Mages that you begin the game with.
3.	Player Aid – This section explains the round 
progression, as well as what you can do on your turn.
4.	Department Icon – This is the Icon associated with 
your candidate’s Department.
5.	Personal Discard Pile - Consumable Vault Cards and 
Supporters go into this pile after you use them. Everything 
in this pile is face-down, and cannot be checked by your 
opponents later. You can always look through your own 
discards.
6.	Mage Waiting Area - Mages who are not yet on the 
board can wait on your Candidate Sheet. This makes it easy 
for other players to tell how many Mages you have left to 
place. 
Candidate Starting Spell
Each candidate also comes 
with a Starting Spell. The starting 
Spell works just like an ordinary 
Spell, except that it does not 
count for any votes at the end of 
the game and cannot be lost by 
any means.
Optional Open Discards
If your group prefers a more 
open-information game setting, 
you can play with face-up discards. In this case, the only 
face-down cards in the discard are those that are gained 
face-down (such as “Secret Supporters”, explained later). 
Other players can look through the face-up portion of your 
discard pile at any time. 
Bell Tower Offerings
Bell Tower Offerings represent favors earned from 
the University. A player may spend an action to gain one 
of these Offerings that haven’t been claimed instead of 
sending a Mage on an Errand or casting a Spell. Once the 
last Bell Tower Offering is taken, players will no longer be 
able to take actions in the round, and the phase of play 
will move to resolving the placement of the Mages.
1.	Offering Name – This is the name of the Offering.
2.	Effect – This is the effect the player will gain by 
taking this Offering.
Mage Power Cards
These cards remind players of 
the different powers that Mages 
have, and can be placed beside the 
board or passed around for easy 
reference during gameplay. They 
are reference cards only, and are 
not controlled by any player.
You should keep each Mage 
Reference on its ‘A’ side, unless 
playing with the advanced ‘B’ 
Mage Powers.
Round Cards
These cards are used to keep 
track of the current round in the 
game, but they have no specific 
special effects. They are reference 
cards only, and are not controlled 
by any player.
At the start of each round, 
reveal a new round card. At the 
end of the 5th Round, the game 
ends!

Spell Cards
Spell cards are used to cast Spells, which give you 
significant advantages during the Errand Phase. Each 
Spell has three different levels that increase in power.
1.	Intelligence/Wisdom Slot – Place a token into this 
space to learn the Spell or to level it up. This is called 
Research.
2.	Spell Level Title – The title of the Spell. This will 
show an icon as well if the Spell is a Reaction (
) or a Fast 
Action (
) (explained on page 11).
3.	Mana Cost – The amount of Mana you must spend 
to activate the Spell.
4.	Effect – The effect that will take place when you cast 
the Spell.
5.	Department Icon – Each Spell belongs to one of 
Argent’s departments of magic. Learning and advancing 
Spells will give you more influence in the department it 
comes from.
Spells are learned and upgraded 
through a process called Research. 
Research is awarded by many rooms in 
the University, as well as by Supporters. 
Research is explained in detail on page 17.
Legendary Spells are acquired 
from the Vault Deck, and are not 
shuffled into the Spell Deck at 
game start.
These Spells have a different 
back than regular Spells. Once in 
play, they work just like normal 
You can obtain these with the 
“Sealed Scroll” Vault card.
Consortium Voter Cards
Members of the Consortium cast their votes at the 
end of the game to determine who will become the new 
Chancellor of Argent University. Each one votes based on 
a very specific criteria. Knowing and meeting these criteria 
will be the key to victory. 
Marks are a special resource that let 
you look at Consortium Voters. When 
you gain a Mark, place it onto one of the 
Consortium Voters and secretly look at 
that Voter’s card. You can reference the 
card again in the future if you forget.
1.	Title - The title of the card’s voting criteria.
2.	Criteria - The Consortium member’s voting criteria
White-bordered Consortium Members are always in 
the game, and are face-up at the start of the game. The rest 
of the voters are drawn from a pool, and each may or may 
not be in play in any given game.

You can send your Mages exploring to recover valuable 
gear from the University’s vaults, or purchase these items 
from the university stores.
These treasures offer great power or rewards. 
There are even a few Spells that have been sealed 
away because they were deemed too dangerous 
in the hands of the university’s power-hungry 
professors...
1.	Name - The name of the Vault 
Card.
2.	Type - The type of the card, 
either Treasure (
) or Consumable 
(
). Consumables can be used only 
once. Treasures stay in play and can 
be activated once per round and are not discarded, only 
exhausted after use.
3.	Effect - The effect the Vault Card provides when it is 
used from your office
4.	Gold Cost - The gold value of the card for purchase.
5.	Timing Icon - If the Vault Card is used as a Reaction 
(
) or a Fast Action (
), it will have a timing Icon.
Reaction: When one of your Mages 
would be wounded, banished, or moved, 
it shadows its original slot instead.
Consumable
Phase stePPers
Loyalty Badges
Loyalty Badges are symbols your 
Mages wear so that they can identify each 
other as allies in your conspiracy to claim 
the Chancellorship. Whenever you place 
a Mage, attach one of your Loyalty Badges 
onto to bottom of its base. When rewards are claimed 
during the resolution phase, you can return that Mage to 
your Office and claim the rewards for yourself.
Supporter Cards
Many Consortium voters will vote based on who the 
influential students and faculty members of the University 
favor. You can get these supporters onto your side by 
gaining their cards.
1.	Name - The Supporter’s name and position.
2.	Effect - This is the effect the Supporter provides 
when you use them from your office. They are discarded 
into your personal discard after use.
3.	Department - Each supporter card counts towards 
Departmental Control Votes on the symbol in its top left 
corner. Many Consortium Voters care about control of the 
various departments.
Many errands and effects in the 
University will give you Influence Points. 
In addition to helping you win the 
Most Influence Vote, every 7 points of 
Influence you accumulate will give you a 
Merit Badge. 
Merit Badges are an additional cost to use some of the 
best mage errand slots in the game (see the section on 
Merit slots on page 12).

Game Setup
Follow these steps to set up your game of Argent...
3. Prepare the University
In every game, the white-bordered 
University 
Central 
tiles 
(Infirmary, 
Council Chambers, and Library) will be 
included somewhere in the University 
Board. The other rooms will be added 
randomly, depending on the number of players. 
Refer to the diagram on page 10 in order to setup 
the board.
For your first game, some specific University 
layouts are provided. These contain less complex 
rooms and effects, making them ideal for first-
time players.
2. Set up the Consortium Board
Stack markers on the Influence Point 
(IP) track on the spot that represents 5 
Influence. Stack these markers in reverse 
clockwise turn order starting from the last 
player, with the First Player’s Marker at the 
top of the stack.
Place the two white-bordered Voters 
(who vote for most Supporters and 
most Influence) in their appropriate 
positions on the Consortium Board. 
Shuffle the Consortium Deck and deal 10 
additional Voter cards face-down onto the 
Consortium Board.
1. Set up Player Offices
The First Player is the one who most recently attended 
a university class. Give this player the Key Token to 
show that he will go first.
•	 In player order, each player chooses one of 
the available candidate sheets, or is dealt one randomly. 
Each player takes all the Marks and Loyalty Badges 
associated with their color. 
•	 Choose a candidate side (side A is 
recommended for your first game) and claim the Starter 
Spell that has your candidate’s picture on it.
•	 Take 2 Mages associated with your 
department (indicated by your candidate card).
•	 Take 6 Gold Tokens
•	 Take 2 Mana Tokens
•	 Take 2 Intelligence Tokens
•	 Take 2 Wisdom Tokens
•	 Candidates from the Department 
of Students (
) also begin the game with an 
extra Merit Badge. These candidates are 
recommended for advanced players.
4. Place Mage Power Cards
Place the Mage Power reference cards to the side of the 
board. These are not used during the game, but they form a 
handy reference for what powers your Mages have.
Put reserves of Gold, Tokens, 
Merits, and Mana near the 
board for later use.
Gain 2 Buys, each at a 2 G
Student
discard and re-deal the Vault Tableau
ref
Gain 2 Gold OR gain 2 Ma
Gain 2 IP and gain
Gain 1 INT, gain 1 WIS, a

7, 8, 9. Create Decks and Tableaus
There are 3 different kinds of cards in the game: Spells (7), the 
Vaults (8), and Supporters (9). Each of these has two parts. 
Each Deck is shuffled and placed face-down beside the game 
area (remember to also set aside the Legendary Spells, which have 
a different back). Each deck also has a number of cards revealed 
and placed face-up beside it as a Tableau. Different effects will have 
you draw from the Deck or Draft from the matching Tableau. Note 
that you will always Draw from a deck and always Draft from a 
Tableau.
The Spell and Vault Tableaus each have 3 cards revealed. The 
Supporters Tableau has 5 cards revealed.
When you draft from the Spell or Vault Tableau, the empty space 
you create is filled in immediately from the top of the corresponding 
deck. The Supporter Tableau is only refreshed during the start of 
the round.
10. Draft Mages
Place all the remaining Mages in the 
center of the table. Starting with the last 
player and going in counter-clockwise 
order, each player drafts one Mage.
You may draft a Mage from any 
department, but you can never draft a 
Mage if you already have two of its type.
After drafting once counterclockwise, 
draft again clockwise from the Start 
Player, then once more counter-clockwise 
starting from the last player, so that each 
player has 5 Mages total. These Mages will 
remain in your service over the course 
of the game. Attach one of your colored 
Loyalty Badges onto each of your Mage’s 
bases.
5. Set up the Bell Tower
Set up the Bell Tower Cards in a row below 
the Consortium Board, based on the number of 
players in the game. For example, in a 3-player 
game, all of the 2+ Bell Tower cards are included, 
but the 4+ and 5+ cards will be left out.
6. Set up Round Cards
Order the five Round Cards so that ‘1’ is on the top and ‘5’ is on 
the bottom, and place them near the Consortium Board. The ‘6’ 
card is used in a Variant Game, and will not be included by default 
(see the Epic Variant, page 18).
Now you’re ready for the first round!
11. Place Starting Marks
In turn order, each player should 
choose and place a Mark on one of the 
face-down Consortium Voters. No two 
players may mark the same Voter in this 
way during this Setup step.
After you Mark a Voter, you are 
allowed to look at it. Now you have some 
idea of where to start on your conspiracy 
to control Argent!
y
s
Gold discount
t Stores
u.
fresh
ana; gain a Mark
n a Mark
nd gain a Mark
Action: Gain 2 Mana.
Mana Crystal
Fast Action: Look at the top 3 cards 
of the Supporter Deck. Gain one as a 
Secret Supporter. Discard the others.
Consumable
Mystic Lantern
choose 1
x3
Fast Action: Research a Legendary 
Spell of your choice.
Sealed Scroll

Recommended First-Game University Setups
3 Players - 8 Rooms
4 Players - 10 Rooms
5 Players - 12 Rooms
Note: All first-game setups use the A sides of each room. A 3- or 4-Player game is recommended for your first game.
In later games, you can use these basic University layouts, or create more complex ones. 
The rules for resolution remain unchanged by the shape of your University, but room adja­
cency does matter for certain Spells and effects.
Player Office Setup
All of your assets are collectively called your ‘office’. This is what your 
office should look like right before the start of the first turn.
Your reference sheet, containing an 
empty personal discard pile.
Your starting Spell.
Reserves of Loyalty Badges, 
Marks, Gold, Mana, INT, 
and WIS Tokens
Your Mages waiting to be placed 
stand on your reference sheet.
Future Spells, 
Vaults, and 
Supporters will be 
placed here beside 
your board.
•	Chapel
•	Student Stores
•	Chapel
•	Adventuring
•	Student Stores
•	Astronomy Tower
Draw a Spell Card OR Gain 2 IP OR Gain 1 WIS
Draw a Vault Card OR Gain 2 IP OR Gain 1 INT
Gain a Secret Supporter and 3 Gold
Gain 2 Mana OR gain 2 Research
Gain 1 INT OR gain 1 WIS
Gain 1 INT OR gain 1 WIS; gain 2 Research
Swap 1 Gold for 1 IP, up to 3 times
Swap 2 Gold for 1 IP, up to 4 times
Swap 1 IP for 10 Gold
max 4
max 3
The setup for two players can 
be found in the Options and 
Extras section on page 18. It is 
recommended for players who 
have played Argent before.

Gameplay
Gameplay proceeds over a series of 5 rounds leading up 
to the election of the new Chancellor. At the end of the 
fifth round, all of the Consortium Voters are revealed and 
whoever has earned the most votes will win the game. 
Remember that whatever else happens, votes are the 
only thing that matter at the end of the game.
Over the course of the game, you will be trying to 
complete the objectives of as many Consortium Voters as 
possible. You will do this primarily by sending your loyal 
Mages out on errands. 
A Mage sent to one of the errand spots on the board will 
bring back rewards for you at the round’s end. This reward 
may be in the form of Influence in the University, research 
towards your Spells, treasures from the vaults, Supporters 
from among the staff and students, or additional resources 
like Gold and Mana.
Some turns might also consist of casting a Spell or 
utilizing one of the Vault cards or Supporters that you 
acquired on earlier rounds to give yourself an advantage or 
hinder other players. 
When you have nothing left to do (or if you just think 
your position is better than everyone else), you can take 
Bell Tower Offerings. After all the Bell Tower Offerings are 
gone, the round ends immediately.
Each Round is divided into these three steps:
1.	 Setup Phase
2.	 Errands Phase
3.	 Resolution Phase
1 - Setup Phase
Perform the following to set up each new round (you 
can skip this on the first round of the game):
1.	 Refresh (turn vertical) any exhausted Spell and Vault 
cards. Unflip any spent Merit Badges.
2.	 Return all Tableau Cards to the bottom of their 
respective decks (the order of the returned cards is not 
important). Reveal 3 cards to form the Spell and Vault 
Tableaus, and reveal 5 cards to form the Supporter Tableau. 
Return Bell Tower Offerings to their place.
3.	 Perform any other Room-specific setup effects.
2 - Errands Phase
This is where most of the action in a round happens. 
Starting with the First Player and going in clockwise order, 
each player may take one Fast Action, then must take any 
one of these actions: (described in detail on the next pages)
1.	 Place a Mage
2.	 Cast a Spell
3.	 Use a Vault Card
4.	 Use a Supporter Card
5.	 Take a Bell Tower Offering Card
The Errands Phase ends immediately as soon as the 
final Bell Tower Offering card is taken. Remember that 
taking a Bell Tower Offering ends your turn immediately, 
regardless of any other effects in play (such as extra 
actions granted by Spells).
 Fast Actions
Fast Actions are used during the Errands Phase, but do 
not take up your turn. You can use one Fast Action before 
you take a regular Action. 
You may not use a Fast Action after you take your 
Regular Action. Also, you may not use a Fast Action in 
place of a Regular Action (that is, taking two Fast Actions 
instead of a Fast + Regular).
Most Fast Actions work identically to the Regular 
Actions listed in the following pages. Spells, Vaults, Mages, 
and Supporters that grant Fast Actions are marked with a 
‘Fast’ symbol (
) and will say “Fast Action: ...” instead of 
“Action: ...” 
 Reactions
Reactions are used in response to a specific action by an 
opponent–usually one that harms you or your Mages. The 
reaction can be triggered as soon as the action it responds 
to is completely resolved. Each player can only react once 
to a specific action, and reactions are used in turn order 
from the current player. Reactions cannot be reacted to.
In the case of reactions to Spells, the spell is cast and 
resolved, then relevant reactions are allowed to be played. 
In the case of the Mysticism Mage A power, this happens 
after the Spell is cast and reactions are taken.
3 - Resolution Phase
Starting with the top left room in the University and 
moving left to right across each row, remove Mages from 
their assigned errand slots and perform the stated effects 
of those slots.
If for some reason, a Mage is unable to complete the 
errand (usually due to a lack of Merit Badges) or if you just 
do not wish it to claim the depicted reward, then the Mage 
can accept 1 Influence Point instead as a consolation. In 
either case, the Mage returns to its owner’s office.
Next Round
If this was the fifth round, proceed to the end of the 
game (page 15). Otherwise, reveal the next round card and 
start the next round with the Setup Phase.

1. Place a Mage
The rooms of the University contain many slots for 
Mages to be sent on errands. To send a Mage on an errand, 
pick up the Mage and place it into an empty slot.
Each of the six kinds of Mages has a special ability, 
depending on their associated department, which is 
signified by their color and represented by an icon.
The ‘A’ sides of each Mage are described here. The more 
advanced ‘B’ sides are used in an alternate game mode (see 
page 18).
Red (Sorcery) - Red Mages are part of 
the department of Sorcery, and excel 
at destructive Spells. When placing a 
Sorcery Mage, you may choose to spend 
1 mana to Wound a Mage and take their 
slot. 
Grey (Mysticism) - Grey Mages are part 
of the department of Mysticism, and are 
adept at summoning Spells. Whenever 
you take the ‘Cast a Spell’ action during 
the Errands Phase, you may also place a 
Mystic after the Spell is completed.
Only Regular Action Spells allow you to place a 
Mysticism Mage. Fast Action and Reaction Spells do not 
grant this opportunity.
Green (Natural Magick) - Green Mages 
are part of the department of Natural 
Magick, and are exceptionally tough. 
Nature Mages can never be Wounded, 
making them a great choice for holding 
important slots.
Purple (Planar Studies) - Purple Mages 
are part of the department of Planar 
Studies, and are adept at time and space 
magic. They may be deployed as a Fast 
Action, so they can be used to grab 
powerful spots early, or fill in gaps before 
the last Bell Tower Offering is taken.
Blue (Divinity) - Blue Mages are part 
of the department of Divinity, and are 
versed in protective magic. Divinity 
Mages can never be affected by Spells 
cast by rival candidates (they are still 
susceptible to Sorcery Mages, Vault 
Cards, and Supporters).
Off-White (Neutral) - Off-White Mages 
are Mages who aren’t formally studying 
in any of the departments yet. They don’t 
have any special powers, but you’re going 
to need all the help you can get to reach 
the top!
Shadow Merit Slot - These slots are 
both Shadow and Merit slots, meaning 
that a shadowing Mage must spend a 
Merit Badge to claim rewards. A Shadow 
Merit Slot activates after the regular Merit 
slot next to it.
Shadow Slot - These slots can be 
occupied by a Mage who uses a Shadow 
effect when placing. Shadowing is 
provided by many Spells, supporters, and 
Vault Cards. The Shadow Slot activates 
right after the regular slot next to it.
Merit Slot - The best slots in the game 
require Merit to activate them. You will 
need to expend one of your Merit Badges 
by flipping it over at the moment that you 
claim this slot’s rewards. You can also take 
the default benefit of 1 IP if you can’t or 
don’t wish to use a Merit Badge.
Regular Slot - This slot can be used 
to place a Mage normally. There are no 
special restrictions on this slot.
Wound Slot - These slots appear only 
on Infirmary side B. You can send your 
Mages to one of these slots when they 
are wounded, instead of to the general 
infirmary.
Types of Errand Slots
Types of Errands
Regular Errands - Regular Errands are carried out at 
the end of the round, during the Resolution Phase.
Sympathy Bonus - These appear in the Infirmary, and 
you gain this bonus immediately whenever one of your 
Mages is wounded by an opponent.
Immediate Errands - Immediate Errands are carried 
out as soon as you place your Mage in the slot (after any 
reactions are carried out). Immediate Errands do not 
resolve again during the Resolution Phase or when moving 
within the room or into the room. Rooms with these 
Errands will have a 
 Symbol near their names.

2. Cast a Spell
To cast a Spell, pay the required amount of mana from 
your office and turn the Spell 90 degrees on its side to show 
that it has been exhausted. An exhausted Spell cannot be 
cast again that round (unless it is refreshed by another 
effect and turned back to normal).
You may cast any researched level of the Spell, but no 
matter what level is cast, the entire Spell card becomes 
exhausted. 
After casting a Spell, perform the effects of the Spell as 
detailed on the card. Most Spell effects are explained in the 
Common Effects section (page 15).
Trey casts ‘Wave’. He rotates the Spell 90 degrees to show 
it is exhausted, then pays the required mana and performs 
the effects on the Spell (banish a Mage). He could not cast 
higher levels of the Spell, as they are not researched yet.
3. Use a Vault Item
The text on a Vault card will indicate when it can be 
used and will specify whether or not it takes an action to 
do so.
If the Vault Card is a Consumable, after using it and 
gaining the benefit, place the card in your personal discard 
pile.
If the Vault Card is a Treasure, rotate it 90 degrees to 
show that it is exhausted, like you would a Spell. During 
the Setup Phase each turn, exhausted Treasures refresh 
and can be used again.
Vaults utilize many of the same common effects as 
Brad uses the ‘Spellblade’ to wound another Mage, then 
place his own Mage in its slot. This item is a treasure, so 
he rotates it 90 degrees to show that it is exhausted. If this 
were a Consumable instead of a Treasure, he would discard 
it to his personal discard pile instead of exhausting it.
Jen places a Blue Mage into an empty slot. During 
the Resolution Phase, she will be able to gain 
her choice of 6 Gold or 3 Mana, provided that 
her Mage isn’t knocked out before then.
Trey places a Red Mage and activates the Red Mage 
power. This power allows him to spend 1 Mana to Wound 
another Mage and take its slot. Jen’s Mage is sent to the 
Infirmary, while Trey’s Mage remains in the slot.
Action: Wound a Mage, then 
place one of yours into its slot.
Spellblade

4. Use a Supporter
Supporter cards usually have special effects that you 
can call on later during the game, and so they stay in your 
office just like Spells and Vault Cards until you choose to 
use them. 
After a supporter uses its effect, it goes into your personal 
discard, and counts for control of its Department, as well 
as for the Most Supporters vote at the end of the game.
Supporters utilize many of the same common effects as 
5. Take a Bell Tower Card
Taking a Bell Tower Offering speeds up the end of the 
round and gives you a small reward. Place this card in your 
Office, face-up. You gain the bonus described on the Bell 
Tower Card. Bell Tower Cards go back to the Bell Tower at 
the start of each new round.
Taking a Bell Tower Card immediately ends your 
turn, even if you do it as an extra action granted by an 
effect. You can never take more than one Bell Tower 
Card per turn, and you can never take a Bell Tower Card 
as part of a Reaction.
Even after you take a Bell Tower Card, you can still take 
other actions later in the round on future turns, including 
taking more Bell Tower Cards!
Trey takes the ‘Popularity’ Offering Card and instantly 
gains its effect (gain 1 IP). If this were the last 
Offering Card, the round would end immediately.
Eunice uses the ‘Alumis’ Supporter as her action. She marks 2 
voters, then places the card face-down in her personal discard 
pile. She won’t be able to use Alumis again, but the card 
will still count towards winning Voters at the game’s end.
Resolution Phase
When the final offering is taken from the Bell Tower, 
the round ends immediately. Players then resolve the 
rooms, starting with the top-left room and moving right 
across the top row, resolving the slots in each room from 
top to bottom. When the end of the current row of rooms 
is resolved, moved down a row and continue resolving 
rooms, starting with the left-most room in that row and 
moving right as before. Continue this until all rooms are 
resolved. When a Mage is resolved, remove that Mage 
from the room and place him back into his owner’s office.
Once all rooms are resolved, continue on to the next 
round, or to the Game End if it is the 5th round.
Instant rooms and the Infirmary also have mages on 
them returned to owner’s offices. Their effects have resolved 
previously in the round. They won’t resolve again now.
Resolving Errands
Except for Instant rooms and the Infirmary, errands 
resolve at the end of the round.
To resolve an errand, pay any costs associated with the 
errand (including Merits), perform the effect or gain the 
resources listed on the slot, then remove the Mage in the 
errand slot, returning it to your office.
Most errand effects are explained in the ‘Common 
Effects’ section (pg. 15-16). Many errands also grant 
resources (pg. 17).
You can also forego any normal rewards and costs (even 
Merit costs) a slot offers to simply gain 1 IP. This can be 
especially useful if you are pushed into a slot that you don’t 
have the resources to utilize, or you find yourself falling 
behind in the IP race.
Now you are ready to move on to the next round!

Game End
The game ends at the end of the 5th round. At this 
point, reveal all of the remaining Consortium voter cards 
one by one. Determine who receives the vote from each 
Consortium member.
When determining the winner of a particular voter, the 
player with a mark on that voter breaks ties. If multiple 
players have a mark, Influence breaks ties. The player at the 
bottom of the stack (the one who reached the value first) 
wins the tie if there is also a tie for Influence. If no player 
has any of something that a voter looks for, no one wins 
that voter.
At the end of the game, the player with the most votes 
wins! In the case of a tie for Votes, the player with the most 
Influence wins!
There are five major categories of voters...
Most of a Resource
Voters like Most Influence, Most Mana, Most Gold, and 
the like count the amount of the relevant resource that you 
have at the end of the game, after final resolution.
Most Intelligence/Wisdom counts all INT and WIS 
points that have been assigned to Spells as well as all 
unassigned points.
Most Marks counts the number of Marks placed on the 
Consortium Board to look at Consortium Voters.
Most of a Card Type
Voters like Most Consumables, Most Treasure, and Most 
Supporters count the number of cards you have of their 
type. This includes cards in your personal discard pile, and 
those still in your office. Even used cards count towards 
these totals.
Most Departmental Control
Voters like Most Planar Studies, Most Sorcery, and Most 
Natural Magick count up the number of corresponding 
icons on all cards and Spells you control. Each supporter 
typically has one departmental control icon. Each Spell 
has between one and three control icons, depending on 
the amount of research invested in that Spell. A Spell that 
is at Level 3 is worth 3 icons for departmental control, 
while one that is at Level 1 is worth only 1 icon.
Supporters in your Personal Discard Pile count towards 
these totals as well.
Your Mages, Candidate, and Starter Spell are all 
associated with a department, but these things do not 
give you any additional benefit to claim Departmental 
Control Voters. Only the Supporters and Spells learned 
during the game count towards these Voters.
Most Research
The Most Research Voter votes for the total combined 
levels of all Spells a player has mastered. So a player with 
a Level 3, Level 2, Level 3, and Level 1 Spell would have a 
total score of 9 for this voter.
Most Diversity
The Most Diversity Voter votes on the total number 
of different symbols in your Supporter collection, plus 
the number of different symbols in your Spell collection. 
As usual, cards in your Personal Discard Pile also count 
towards these collections.
The maximum total you can have for this Voter is ten: 
five different Supporter types and five different Spell types.
Common Effects
Many Spells, Vault Cards, and Supporters use similar 
terminology and effects. Here are descriptions of the most 
common effects and how they work.
Wounding
Wounded Mages are sent immediately 
to the Infirmary. These Mages will remain 
in the Infirmary for the rest of the round 
unless they are healed or banished by a 
Spell or special effect.
The Infirmary provides a sympathy bonus that you can 
claim immediately when one of your Mages reaches the 
Infirmary. Candidates who send their own Mages to the 
Infirmary receive no such bonus.
Banishing
Banished Mages are sent back to the 
office of their Candidate. Banishment 
allows a Mage to be placed again later 
in the round, so it is usually not as 
devastating as Wounding. There is no 
sympathy bonus when your Mage is 
banished, however.
Moving
Moved Mages are sent from one slot 
on the University Board to another 
empty slot. The Spell will tell you whether 
the Mage stays in the same room or if it 
moves to an adjacent room. 
If a room is full, then it is not possible 
to move more Mages into that room. You can move rival 
Mages onto a Merit slot, especially if you think the player 
won’t be able to utilize the Merit slot during resolution.
Slots that give instant rewards do not reward moving 
Mages into them (regardless of who does the moving), 
they only reward regular placement.

Locking
Locking affects an entire room at 
once. Place a Lock Token on the room, 
and no Mages can be moved into, out of, 
or within the room. Locking protects 
a room and its occupants from 
all Spells and effects, except for 
those which ‘unlock’ the room.
Locked Rooms still resolve 
as normal, and automatically 
unlock at the end of the Resolution 
Phase.
Shadowing
Many 
effects 
(especially 
Planar 
Studies Spells) will let Mages ‘shadow’ 
other Mages. Shadowing Mages occupy 
another dimension parallel to the real 
one, and carry out the errand of the slot 
they occupy immediately after the slot’s 
actual occupant. Here are a few rules for interacting with 
Shadowing Mages:
•	 Shadowing Mages act after the Mage they were 
Shadowing, copying their action and spending a Merit 
Badge if necessary to do so.
•	 A Shadowing Mage may not be moved or harmed by 
any method except Spells and Vault cards that specifically 
refer to Shadowing Mages.
•	 Shadowing Mages lose their innate powers (so you 
cannot wound while shadowing with a Red Mage, for 
example, and Shadowing Blue Mages are still vulnerable 
to Spells).
•	 You may not Shadow your own Mages or an empty 
slot unless the Spell or effect specifically allows you to.
•	 You may not use a Spell to Shadow Mages protected 
from Spells (such as Blue Mages). 
Buy
Gaining a Buy allows you to buy a 
card from the Vault Tableau by paying 
the appropriate amount of Gold from 
your office. The Vault card you gain goes 
directly to your office and is ready for 
use. Vault cards are replaced instantly 
when bought.
Draw a Card
Drawn cards come from the top of 
their respective decks and go straight 
into your office, face-up for all to see and 
ready to use. If you draw a Spell into your 
office, you may Research it immediately. 
If you cannot or choose not to Research a 
drawn Spell, it is discarded to the bottom 
of the Spell Deck..
Draft a Card
Drafted 
cards 
come 
from 
their 
respective Tableaus and go straight into 
your office, face-up for all to see and 
ready to use. Remember that Vaults and 
Spells are replaced instantly when drafted. 
Supporter Cards are only replaced at the end of a round.
Gain a Secret Supporter
Secret Supporters are drawn from the 
Supporter Deck and immediately go into 
your personal discard pile face-down. 
These supporters won’t help you during 
the game, but they will count for your 
totals during scoring.
Discard a Card
Discarded cards return to the bottom 
of their respective decks. Discarding a 
card is different from using it. 
Used cards (like Consumables and 
Supporters) go to your personal discard. 
Only effects that specifically discard will 
cause cards to go back to their decks.
Place a Mage
Many Spells or effects let you place 
a Mage. This works just like regular 
placement, except that Mage Powers 
that work during placement (like the 
Red Mage Power) can’t be used when 
placing like this.
Common Effects (Cont’d)
Healing
Healing returns a Mage from the 
Infirmary to your office. These effects 
can only target Mages in the Infirmary.

Resources in Argent
Intelligence
Intelligence determines the number 
of Spells you can memorize. Gained 
Intelligence goes into your office. It is 
rare to lose Intelligence, and only unused 
Intelligence can be lost (INT on Spells is 
safe).
Wisdom
Wisdom determines the number of 
Spell levels you can possess. Gained 
Wisdom goes into your office. It is rare to 
lose Wisdom, and only unused Wisdom 
can be lost (WIS on Spells is safe).
Research
Research is a resource that allows you 
to move INT and WIS tokens from your 
personal supply onto Spells.
When you gain a Research, you may 
either learn a new Spell by drafting it 
from the Spell Tableau, or upgrade an old Spell.
When you learn a new Spell, you must place an INT 
token from your personal supply onto the Spell’s ‘Learn’ 
slot. If you do not have any available INT tokens, you 
cannot learn a new Spell.
When you upgrade a Spell, place a WIS token from 
your personal supply onto the Spell’s next ‘Advance’ slot. 
If you do not have any available WIS tokens, you cannot 
upgrade a Spell.
If you do not have any available INT or WIS when you 
gain a Research, or if you choose not to use the Research 
when you gain it, it is lost. Once you commit your INT 
or WIS by Researching, those points cannot be moved or 
lost!
Marks
A Mark represents knowing the 
criteria of a Consortium voter. When you 
gain a Mark, you are allowed to place it 
on a Consortium voter. Now and at any 
time for the rest of the game, you are 
allowed to look at the voter.
Many of the slots in the University 
Rooms will have a Merit mark inside 
them. To claim the rewards these slots 
provide during resolution, you will need 
to exhaust a Merit Badge.
When you reach a Merit threshold on the Influence 
track, you immediately gain an additional Merit Badge. 
You may place Mages speculatively, in hopes that you can 
score additional Merit during resolution.
Merit Badges refresh every round just like Spells, so you 
will be able to use each Merit you possess once per round.
Merit slots are extremely powerful. Try to keep your 
influence rising constantly, so you’ll be able to take 
increasing advantage of them during the game!
Influence
Many actions will give you Influence 
Points. 
Influence 
determines 
your 
popularity and control in Argent, and 
is used to break ties (after Marks) and 
acquire Merit Badges. 
When moving up the Influence Track, the player who 
reached a space last places their influence disc on top of 
other discs. The disc that is lowest on the stack wins ties of 
Influence (the person who reached that space first has the 
advantage).
Mana
Mana is the power used to cast Spells. 
Acquired Mana goes into your office, and 
you can have any amount of Mana. Mana 
you own can be used to cast Spells or 
pay the costs associated with some Mage 
Powers. Used Mana is discarded back to a common pool.
Gold
Gold is used to perform many errands 
within Argent University, and its uses will 
vary greatly by the rooms included in the 
University. Acquired Gold goes into your 
office, and you can have any amount of 
Gold. Used Gold is discarded back to a common pool.
Note: Resources like Gold, Mana, Wisdom, Intelligence, 
Merit Badges, and Marks are unlimited. If you some­
how run out of these items, use an appropriate marker 
as a substitute.
Research Example: Brad 
has 2 Research from a room 
effect. He spends the first 
Research to draft a Spell 
from the Tableau and place 
an Intelligence from his 
supply on it. He spends the 
second Research to place a 
Wisdom Marker on the Spell 
and upgrade to level 2. Now 
he can use either Malaise or 
Haunt.

Frequently Asked Questions
Q: Can I announce who the members of the Consortium 
are when I look at them?
A: You are allowed to say anything at any time, but you are 
never allowed to ‘prove it’ by showing the actual Consortium Voter 
cards to other players. Beware of bluffers!
If your group prefers, you can rule at the start of the game to 
ban all discussion of the board members.
Q: What happens if I cannot fulfill all requirements of a 
card’s effect?
A: In this case, you fulfill as much of the effect as you can. For 
example, if a Spell says to wound all Mages in a room, and there 
are green Mages that can’t be wounded and blue Mages that aren’t 
affected by Spells, then other Mages will be wounded while these 
remain.
If a card says “do X to do Y”, you must perform the first part in 
order to carry out the second part.
Q: What happens if I lose a Merit Badge?
A: If your IP drops below a Merit point on the board, then you 
must give up a Merit Badge. Unspent Merit Badges are taken away 
first, if you have any.
Q: Can I get more than two Mages of a single type if I gain 
them through special rooms? Can I have more than 7 Mages?
A: No. No effect can allow you to have more than 2 Mages of 
a single type under any circumstances. You can never have more 
than 7 Mages at a time (this limit does not include temporary 
mages like Trias Blackwind’s “Living Image” or the Archmage’s 
Apprentice).
Q: Can I place Mages from anywhere?
A: No, “place a Mage” refers specifically to placing a Mage 
from your office. Also, you may only place your own Mages unless 
specifically instructed to do otherwise by a Spell or other Effect.
Q: Does the “Power” Bell Tower card reduce the costs of 
rooms and Vaults Cards that require mana to activate?
A: No. “Power” only reduces the Mana costs of Spells.
Q: Can I take 1 IP instead of using an immediate errand 
slot when I place there?
A: Yes, you choose to do this immediately instead of gaining the 
slot’s benefit.
Q: What order do Spell effects target Mages?
A: When playing with Infirmary B, the order your Spells affect 
other players’ Mages can be important. In this case, Mages are 
affected in turn order.
Q: Is there a way for players to leave mid-game?
A: Life happens, and sometimes players may need to leave a 
game early. The player who is leaving should choose two rooms 
other than University Central. At the end of the round, these will 
be removed from the game. Play out the current round as normal, 
skipping over the leaving player. At the end of the round, remove 
the selected rooms and shrink the board as necessary.
Q: Do WIS/INT on your Spells still count as yours for 
purposes of Voters and other effects?
A: Yes. Things that key off of INT/WIS also count the ones 
Options and Extras
There’s more than one way to become the Chancellor of 
the world’s most prestigious magical university! Here are 
some alternate game options that you can use once you are 
familiar with how to play!
Each variant will require new strategies and styles of 
play to become victorious!
Epic Variant
For players wanting a longer game to develop their Spell 
engines further, you may choose to play a 6th Round. Just 
place the 6th Round card onto the bottom of the Round 
Deck. Beware, as things can get crazy in a 6th round!
B-Side Rooms
You may choose to use all or some of the B-sides of 
the University room tiles. Create random mixes for new 
University setups that require new strategies to master!
Build the University
At the start of the game, before Mage Drafting, set up 
University Central (the three white-bordered rooms) in a 
single column in the center of the University Area. Players 
take turns choosing their favorite tiles and adding them 
to the University one-by-one, choosing side and position, 
until the correct number of rooms for the player count is 
reached. This may cause an irregular-shaped University, 
but the rules for resolving rooms remain unchanged.
Alternate Mage Powers
You may choose to play the game with all or some of the 
alternate Mage Powers. Just flip the Mage reference card to 
its B-side to show that these Mages have alternate powers. 
Another option is for each candidate to decide which 
power the Mages of their department have, and then let 
the rest be decided randomly.
Diversity Requirement
Instead of drafting Mages during step 10 of setup or 
receiving starting Mages of your department, give each 
player one Mage of each department for their starting five 
Mages. This is a great option if you want to offset potential 
departmental advantages with a certain board setup.
Argent for Two
Playing Argent with two players is a bit different than 
usual. Here are some changes to setup:
•	 Play with 9 University rooms in a 3x3 square.
•	 Draft Mages until each player has 7 Mages.
•	 Don’t use Great Hall A or Dormitory in your setup.
•	 Always use Infirmary Side B in your setup.
•	 Remove the 2nd Most Influence and 2nd Most 
Supporters Voters before dealing the Voters.

you’ve placed on your Spells via Research.
Q: Can players draft neutral mages during the draft?
A: Yes, but there is no reason to unless an expert player wants to 
handicap themselves on purpose.
Q: Can players draft the Archmage’s Apprentice during the 
draft at the beginning of the game? Or obtain him by some 
other means other than the Archmage’s Study?
A: Definitely not. Nice try, though!
Q: Can you Banish and Wound your own mages?
A: Yes, unless the card says to do it to “an opponent’s mage”.
Q: Can you Heal an opponent’s mage? 
A: If you want to, for some nefarious reason.
Q: In the Astronomy Tower do you HAVE to pay to move 
the marker?
A: Yes. You cannot take the action the marker is on for free. If 
the marker on Side B reaches the end of the track you may take that 
reward. You don’t have to pay to move it in this case, you’ll just get 
the reward for free.
Q: Can you have more than 2 neutral mages?
A: Yes, since they have no power associated with them you may 
have more than two (usually this would only happen if a player 
playing a neutral character buys a neutral mage).
Q: If I use a Supporter that gives me a colored mage, but I 
already have two of that color or there are no more mages of 
that color, what happens?
A: You would receive a Neutral mage instead. If there are no 
more neutral mages, you cannot receive a mage from this Supporter.
Q: Can I banish/wound/move my own Shadowing mage?
A: Not unless the thing you are using specifically lets you target 
a Shadowing mage. They are off limits except for things which 
directly target Shadowing mages.
Q: Can things that “refresh” refresh themselves?
A: No.
Q: If determining the Most Influence or Supporter voter 
was determined by a tie, how would you evaluate the “Second-
most” Influence or Supporter voter?
A: The player who was tied but did not win Most would win 
Second-most.
Q: Does “adjacent” include diagonal rooms?
A: No, orthogonal only.
Q: If I react to being Wounded in a way that saves me from 
going to the Infirmary, do I still get the Infirmary bonus too?
A: No. You don’t go to the Infirmary, so you won’t get the bonus.
Q: If using the B Side Mysticism Mage power to reduce a 
mana cost for a spell, it is reduced to a minimum of one. Can I 
use other effects to reduce the spell cost to zero mana?
A: Yes. As long as Mysticism mages aren’t the only thing 
providing the discount.
Q: Can temporary mages ever become permanent or vice-
versa?
A: No, temporary mages must remain temporary, permanent 
must remain permanent. You may swap their colors, but their 
permanent/temporary nature cannot change.
Q: If I take a Bell Tower card but I don’t want to or cannot 
make use of it, what happens?
A: Nothing, but it still counts towards ending the round. Using 
the card is not mandatory, it is meant to be a benefit to you.
Q: Can you steal the Archmage’s Apprentice if someone 
already has it?
A: No, they keep it for the full round.
Q: Can you go through a player’s discard pile to look at their 
card backs and count their number of Vault and Supporter 
cards?
A: Not unless you are playing with the Open Discard rule (see 
page 5 of the rulebook), in which case you can not only know how 
many, but what type they are as all but their Secret Supporters 
will be face-up for you to look at. Secret Supporters may never be 
looked at or counted. They’re secret.
Q: If I cast Repeating Hex but I have upgraded that spell, 
what happens to my WIS tokens when I swap it?
A: The player that cast Repeating Hex keeps their WIS tokens, 
but loses the research (so the WIS returns to their Office, but can 
be spent later).
Q: If one has a card that allows one to react and go to the 
Shadow spot after being banished/wounded/etc, what happens 
if that shadow spot is already occupied?
A: You must suffer the consequence (banish/wound/move) 
because there is no longer a place for you to Shadow. You do not 
push the previous occupant out.
Q: If I am at my 7 Mage limit, but I gain another mage, can 
I swap it out with one of my current Mages?
A: Yes, as long as it doesn’t put you over the limit of 2 per color.
Q: Do I have to gain beneficial effects if I don’t want to?
A: You may gain only the benefits of Spells, Supporters, Vault, 
and Bell Tower cards that you want. For example, you use a card 
that gives you a Mana and a Research and only accept the Mana (if 
for some reason you could not or did not want Research). Benefits 
are never mandatory, but negative effects and costs always are.
Q: What if two players are tied for IP with the Most or 2nd 
Most Influence Voters?
A: Among players who Marked the voter AND are tied on 
Influence, whoever’s Influence tracker was there first wins the voter.

Larimore Burman
Dean of Sorcery
A dragon who has retired from his days of fighting 
heroes, Burman lives under a human guise and teaches the 
ancient secrets of war magic to the mages at Argent. His 
spells are deadly, and his mages possess combat magic that 
they won’t hesitate to use at his command.
Exhufern Le Marigras
Dean of Natural Magick
Exhufern is a thousand-year-old dryad whose life tree is 
at the heart of the university campus. When her tree sheds 
its coat every hundred years, Exhufern reincarnates into a 
new body. Her magic is as old and deadly as the elements, 
and her mages have a toughness that makes them difficult 
to push aside.
Rikhi Kanhamme
Head of Applied Sorcery
One of the least liked professors in Argent, Rikhi has 
given up teaching and turned her focus to experimental 
pursuits, often with disastrous results for the students who 
work under her. Transfer to one of Rikhi’s research groups 
is often threatened as an incentive for students who can’t 
keep up with their peers. 
Mannheim Wildern
Director of University Development
An old druid who has watched over Argent for most of 
his life, Mannheim has decided to take a more active role 
in university affairs. As Chancellor, he hopes to expand 
the campus and extend the influence of Argent over the 
surrounding lands, as well as set up programs to extend 
practical magical education to younger and older groups 
than the university currently serves.

Rheye Cal
Vice Dean of Divinity
A servant of the Divines who hails from the Celestial 
Plane, Rheye is relentless, ruthless, and unscrupulous in 
the pursuit of her masters’ goals. Rheye’s magic keeps her 
mages in the game longer by healing their wounds and 
sending them back into the fray.
Byron Krane
Vice Dean of Mysticism
An ancient wizard who cast off his mortality and 
humanity ages ago, Byron has tried and failed several times 
to rule the world. He possesses an uncanny understanding 
of the nature of magic, and his mages work tirelessly to 
fulfill his schemes as he prepares ever more dangerous 
curses in his laboratory.
Monad Riverime
University Auditor
After traveling the land of Indines, Monad has retired 
from his adventures and taken up a post as University 
Auditor at Argent. Appointed directly by the Chancellor, 
Monad’s job is to ensure the safety of students and staff by 
cracking down on dangerous research, corrupt professors, 
and all other manner of villainy.
Jesca Renetton
Curriculum Planner
Argent’s eccentric curriculum planner, Jesca consults 
all manner of fortune telling devices, spirits, and even 
divinities to set out the curriculum at Argent. Never once 
has she asked for a professor’s opinion on the matter, and 
it is much to the wonder of professors that the curriculum 
remains surprisingly relevant despite this.

Lavanina
Dean of Planar Studies
A terrifying alien from the far reaches of the universe 
that wears a mask of flesh, Lavanina has come to Argent 
on pure whimsy, or so she says. She wields Planar Magic 
far beyond what is taught at Argent, but holds back on 
using her full talents to ‘even the playing field’ with other 
candidates.
Jion Erjon
Honor Court Chief Justice
A student of law, honor, and divinity from the west, Jion 
leads the student Honor Court in investigating student 
infractions. As a parallel in position to the University 
Auditor, Jion keeps tabs on the students at Argent and 
protects them from one another, as well as dispensing 
justice to those who violate the school’s code.
Xal Ezra
Dept. of Planar Studies Senior Researcher
The Department of Planar Studies is the university’s 
newest, but has rapidly gained fame due to the convenience 
and practical application of its work. Xal’s magic allows him 
to operate in multiple dimensions at once, getting twice as 
much done as his rivals. His mages can manipulate time to 
move instantly.
Trias Blackwind
Student Body President
Trias is an adventurer from the subcontinent of Amalao. 
After numerous adventures on the high seas and in faraway 
lands, Trias has come to Argent to unravel the secrets of 
the mysterious Cithara he has discovered, within which 
is imprisoned the spirit of his ancient ancestor. Seeing 
the corruption at Argent, Trias has resolved to return the 
university to the control of its students.

Room Clarifications
This page contains answers to some commonly asked 
questions about the more complex rooms.
Draw a Spell Card OR Gain 2 IP OR Gain 1 WIS
Draw a Vault Card OR Gain 2 IP OR Gain 1 INT
Gain a Secret Supporter and 3 Gold
Adventuring (A Side)
If you draw a Spell Card 
with this room’s effect, you may 
immediately Research it. If you 
choose not to, it is discarded back 
to the Spell Deck.
When you place a Mage here, you may draw a 
card and place it face-up in this room. No more 
than 3 cards of the same type in this room.
Draft this room’s contents during 
resolution. Discard any unclaimed cards. B
limit 3
Adventuring (B Side)
When you place in this room, 
you get to choose a card from 
any deck to place in it. When 
you resolve the room, draft its 
contents.
If you draft a Spell in this way, 
you may immediately Research it. 
If you are unable or choose not 
to, it is discarded back to the Spell 
Deck.
Immediately swap this Mage for 
another from the supply
Immediately pay 1 Mana to gain the 
Archmage’s Apprentice for this round.
Immediately gain 1 IP and swap this 
Mage for another from the supply
Archmage’s Study
The Archmage’s Apprentice has all Mage Powers.
?
?
Archmage’s Study (A & B)
The Archmage’s Apprentice is 
a special Mage pawn that has all 
Mage powers.
Gaining this pawn is only 
temporary–it leaves your service 
at the end of the current round.
Astronomy Tower (A Side)
The Astronomy Tower Marker 
starts on the leftmost space. You 
can only claim rewards once per 
slot, no matter how far you move 
the Marker.
The Marker stays in place 
between rounds.
Astronomy Tower (B Side)
The Astronomy Tower Marker 
resets to the far left every round.
You can only claim rewards 
once per slot, no matter how far 
you move the Marker.
Choose two
Choose two
Choose one
x1
Choose one
x1
Do all three
x3
Gain 1 IP
Draft a Supporter
Gain a Mark
Council 
Chamber
Council Chamber (B Side)
You cannot choose the same 
effect more than once if you are 
using one of the top three slots. 
Immediately gain 1 IP
Great Hall
When you place in this room, you may place up to 3 
Mages together. This room holds any number of Mages.
Great Hall (A & B)
You can place up to 3 Mages in 
this room as a single action. This 
only works with the regular action 
‘Place a Mage’, not with Mage 
placements granted by Spells, 
Supporters, or Mage Powers, and 
not with Mages placed as a Fast 
Action.
Infirmary (A & B)
This room cannot be placed 
in directly. This room can never 
be locked. Mages in this room 
cannot be wounded. Mages in 
this room can be banished (this is 
effectively healing them!)
Immediately gain 4 Gold
Immediately gain 2 Mana
Mages is sent here by an opponent. If there is an empty space above, 
you may place your Mage there first. You cannot place here directly.
Infirmary (B Side)
When your Mage is sent 
here, you can place it into one of 
the top two slots instead of the 
central area, if those slots are still 
open. Note that you still won’t get 
a reward for wounding your own 
Mages, even if you use these slots.
Student Stores (B Side)
No matter how many Buys 
you have, you can only cycle the 
Vault Tableau once, and this does 
not consume your Buy. This only 
applies to Buys in the Student 
Stores, not to Buys granted by 
other sources. The Merit slot’s 
discount applies to both Buys.
Vault (A Side)
Three Vault cards are revealed 
and drafted from the deck. Any 
unselected cards go back to the 
bottom of the deck.

Resource
Icon
How to use it
How to get it
Influence Points (IP)
•	Breaks ties for individual Consortium Voters 
(after Marks) and for the final score in votes
•	Unlocks Merit Badges
•	Wins the Most Influence and 2nd Most 
Influence Votes
•	Skip any errand you have assigned a 
Mage to perform to take 1 IP.
Mana
•	Expended to cast Spells
•	Expended to carry out errands in some rooms
•	Wins the Most Mana vote
Gold
•	Expended to carry out errands in some rooms
•	Expended to gain favors from some Supporters
•	Wins the Most Gold vote
Research
•	Immediately learn a Spell from the tableau or 
upgrade an existing Spell by spending either 
Intelligence or Wisdom
•	Wins the Most Research vote
Intelligence (INT)
•	Applied (not expended) to learn new Spells
•	Wins the Most Intelligence vote
Wisdom (WIS)
•	Applied (not expended) to upgrade Spells
•	Wins the Most Wisdom vote
Marks
•	Breaks ties for individual Consortium Voters
•	Allows you to look at Consortium Voters
•	Wins the Most Marks vote
•	Council Chamber (University Central)
•	Wins the Most Treasures vote
•	Wins the Most Consumables vote
Supporter Cards
•	Wins the Most Departmental Influence Votes
•	Wins the Most Supporters and 2nd Most 
Supporters Vote.
•	Wins the Most Diversity vote
•	Council Chamber (University Central)
Spells
•	Wins the Most Departmental Influence Votes
•	Wins the Most Diversity vote
•	When you gain Research, you can 
acquire a new Spell from the Spell 
Tableau.
•	Use once per resolution to take advantage of 
Merit slots.
•	One is unlocked for every 7 IP you 
accumulate.