COMPONENTS
Cards
Tiles & Tokens
SEA CAVE
Release 1 reptile 
into the wild.
24x 2-space enclosure
15x 3-space enclosure
13x 4-space enclosure
kiosk
pavilion
10x 5-space enclosure
128 Animal 
 
d with a max
om your hand
gain X . 
ciation t
ximum 
ding with 
ize of
r space.
vilion, sta
petting z
from your h
 
 
 
Play 1 or more Sponsor cards with 
a maximum total level of 
 +1 from 
your hand or from within reputation 
range (with additional costs).
 
Break X , gain 2x X .
ponsor cards 
vel of 
car
+1
within reputa
ditional costs).
ain 2x X . 
Perform 1 or more diﬀerent 
association tasks with 
a maximum total value of 
In addition, 
you may make 1 donation.
You may play Conservation Project 
cards from within reputation range 
(with additional costs).
ore diﬀe
tasks wi
l value of
tion, 
1 donatio
rvation P
putation
onal costs).
Build 1 or more 
diﬀerent buildings with 
a maximum total size of 
Newly available: Large Bird Aviary 
and Reptile House.
r more
ldings wit
al size of
space.
ge Bird A
House.
L
Play Animal cards from your hand or 
from within reputation range 
(with additional costs). 
rom your ha
utation ran
onal costs). 
on
Draw cards within reputation range or 
from the deck OR snap. 
 
 
 
64 Sponsor 
20 Conservation Project 
212 Zoo cards
12 Base Conservation Project cards
82 Standard Enclosures in various sizes
(both sides are the same)
12 Special Enclosures
24 Kiosk / Pavilion tiles
11 Final Scoring cards
20 double-sided Action cards (5 per set)
Boards & Mats
Gain 
 for large animals 
LARGE ANIMAL ZOO
1 game board
1 Association board
8 player mats (zoo maps)
um 5
4x map A: 
map for ﬁrst-time players with starting 
advantage (easy)
4x map 0: 
map with more bonus spaces (intermediate)
8x maps (1–8) on the reverse side of maps A and 
maps 0 to allow for customized setup (advanced)
The reverse side shows a diﬀerent orientation of the card spaces. 
Use the side that suits you better.
ki
k
ili
i d
4x Reptile 
4x Large Bird 
4x Petting 
Zoo
4 R
til
4 L
Bi d
4 P tti
emptyt
28x 1-space 
enclosure

More Tiles & Tokens
Wooden Components
4 each
4 each
20 partner zoos
12 universities
15 unique buildings
9 Bonus tiles
55 money tokens
20 X-tokens
8 Venom tokens
8 Constriction tokens
8 Multiplier tokens
1 Break token
Components in 4 player colors (black, blue, red, yellow). In each color:
3 counters
1 tile for solo play
25 player tokens
4 association workers
 
 
 
• 2 organizers
• 1 glossary
• 1 icon overview
• this rulebook
Other
 INTRODUCTION & GOAL OF THE GAME 
In Ark Nova you plan and build a modern, scientiﬁcally 
managed zoo. You build enclosures according to the 
animals’ way of life and support conservation projects to 
ensure the preservation of animal species.
Gathering diverse animals increases the attractiveness 
of your zoo, advancing you on the Appeal track and 
generating higher revenues. Likewise, careful stewardship 
of the animals allows you to support conservation projects, 
such as breeding programs, that leads to your advancement 
on the Conservation track and corresponding bonuses. 
These two tracks progress in opposite directions – if your 
counters meet, the game ends. Whoever achieves the best 
combination of appeal and conservation has built the most 
successful zoo and wins the game. 
Association work in diﬀerent zoo associations allows you 
to partner with zoos and universities around the world. 
Together, with specialists and sponsors, they will help you 
manage the various tasks needed to achieve your goals.
Both the designer and the publisher have made every eﬀort 
to be realistic in the implementation of this game. In rare 
cases, however, concessions have been made for the sake 
of the game mechanics. For example, the koala has the 
subclass bear, which is often used colloquially, but does not 
correspond to reality. The same applies to the enclosure 
requirements.
 Table of Contents 
Introduction & Goal of the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Gameplay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
 • Your Zoo Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
 • Zoo Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
 
→ The Break Track . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
 A Turn / The 5 Action Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
 • Cards action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
 
→ The Reputation Track and the Display . . . . . . . . . . .9
 • Build action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
 • Animals action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
 
→ Animal Card Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
 
→ Special Enclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
 • Association action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
 
→ The Association Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
 
→ Conservation Projects layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
 • Sponsors action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
 
→ Sponsor cards Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
 • X-token action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
 Appeal and Conservation Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
 Break . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
End of Game & Final Scoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
 
→ Final Scoring Card Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Solo Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
(both sides are the same)
40x 1
40x 1
10x 10
10x 10
10x 20
10x 20
10x 5
10x 5
t

 SETUP 
 Global Setup 
 Place the game board in the center of the table. 
Take the Break token and place it on the start 
space of the Break track that corresponds to your 
player count.
If there are three players, place the Break token on the space 
marked 3 .
2 Shuﬄe the 9 Bonus tiles and place a random 
Bonus tile face up on each on each of the 4 blank 
yellow Bonus spaces on the board. Do not place 
any tiles on the two yellow spaces with icons. 
Return the remaining 5 tiles to the box. They are 
not used in the game.
4 Place the 2 organizers next to the game board as the 
general supply.
3 Shuﬄe the Zoo cards to create a face-down deck on the 
game board on the space marked with 
. Deal 6 face-
down cards from the deck to the spaces provided on the 
game board. This is the display.
We recommend to ﬁlling one of the organizers with the 
enclosures as shown to the right. Fill the other organizer 
with the remaining tiles and tokens. The components are 
abound. Thus, pack a few standard enclosures and kiosks / 
pavilions in a bag as a reserve. If you still should run out 
of a component, use a suitable substitute.
A Take a random Map A zoo map, and place it with that side 
up in front of you. Return the remaining zoo maps to the 
box. They are not used in this game. 
For your personal setup, each of you takes the following steps:
B Take one set of Action cards each, consisting of the card 
types Build, Cards, Animals, Association, and Sponsors. 
Place one card with side I up under each of the ﬁve card 
slots on your zoo map: the Animals card under the slot 
furthest to the left showing the 1 and the remaining 
cards randomly distributed under the other 4 slots.
4 of the 8 zoo maps have Map A on one side. All 4 copies of 
Map A are identical and we recommend it for your ﬁrst game. It 
allows you an easy entry into the game and oﬀers generous rewards.
The other 4 zoo maps have Map 0 on one side (this is another identical 
set of 4). This map is suitable for beginners after the ﬁrst game. 
On the other side of all zoo maps you will ﬁnd Maps 1–8; these are 
the advanced maps. These are all diﬀerent and give you an individual 
special ability. We recommend these maps once you are familiar 
with the game. When playing with these, for your personal setup, 
take 2 random zoo maps and choose 1 of the advanced maps. 
Alternatively, you can also lay out player count +1 advanced zoo 
maps and choose 1 each in reverse order of play. In both cases, return 
any unselected maps to the box.
If you are already familiar with the game and are playing a game with 
beginners, you can give them a small starting advantage with Map 0 
and a larger starting advantage with Map A.
imum 
imum 
imum 5
SPONS
Play 1 Sponsor car
 fr
 
 O
Break X
 
 
 
Vulpes zerda
FENNEC FOX
Clever
you may place any Action card 
on 1 .
SALTWATER CROCODILE
Snapping 2
2×: Gain any 1 card from the display. 
You may replenish in between.
Requires small animals 
SMALL ANIMALS
Multiplier: Build
Place 1 x2 on your 
Build Action card 
Vulpes zerda
FENNEC FOX
ishing the current action,
y place any Action card 
TWATER CROCODILE
TWATER CROCODILE
ing 2
n any 1card from the display.
y replenish in between.
rd from the 
 reputation 
equires small animals
MALL ANIMALS
ier: Build
x2 on your 
tion card 
F
G
C2
MapA
p A
Map
M p
M pA

E Draw 2 Final Scoring cards and place them next 
to your zoo map. You may look at them at any 
time, but make sure to keep them hidden from 
the other players.
G
After you have all chosen your hand cards, reveal 
the 6 cards on the display.
F Draw 8 Zoo cards. Choose 4 of them to keep as 
hand cards and discard the remaining 4 cards to 
a face-up discard pile on the discard space on the 
board. Make sure to keep your hand cards hidden 
from the other players.
C Choose a color and take all components of this color.
C1 Place the counters for appeal 
conservation 
, and reputation 
 
on the ﬁrst spaces of their tracks on the 
game board. Place your counters on the 
Appeal track according to turn order: The 
start player starts on space 0 on the track; 
the second player in turn order starts on 
space 1; third on space 2 and fourth, on 
space 3.
C2 Take 7 of the player tokens in your color 
and place them on the designated spaces 
at the left edge of your zoo map. Keep the 
remaining player tokens next to your zoo 
map for later use.
C3 Take the 4 association workers and place 
1 on the notepad of your zoo map, as the 
active worker, and the remaining 3 lying 
down on the designated spaces below the 
notepad.
D Take 25 money from the supply and put it on the 
notepad of your zoo map.
5 Place the Association board next to the game board, leaving enough room for one row of cards above and one row of 
cards below the board.
5a Place 1 partner zoo of each 
continent and 1 university of each 
kind on the spaces provided on 
the Association board.
5b Shuﬄe the Base Conservation Project cards and keep them face-down 
next to the Association board. In a 4-player game, place the 4 topmost of 
these cards face up below the board, otherwise the 3 topmost.
5c In a 2-player game, take 6 player tokens of any unused color and cover: 
 
• on the face-up Base Conservation Project cards: the left level on the left 
card, the middle level on the middle card, and the right level on the right 
card.
 
• on the Association board: the three spaces in the left column of the 
donation area. 
 
The covered levels / spaces are considered blocked and cannot be used by 
either player.
6 Shuﬄe the Final Scoring cards 
and place them face down next 
to the Association board.
7 Randomly determine a start 
player. Turn order is clockwise.
A face-up discard pile is easier to distinguish from the other 
card piles. This prevents you from unintentionally drawing 
the wrong card type. Of course, you can keep the discard pile 
face down, if you prefer.
We recommend that you choose 1–2 Sponsor cards and 
2–3 Animal cards as your ﬁrst hand cards. Make sure that 
the cards do not have conditions you cannot fulﬁll early on in 
the game. If possible, choose cards with icons matching the 
Base Conservation Projects on display. 
rd with a maximum 
rom your hand.
 , gain X .
Sample setup for a two-player 
game. Red is not used in this 
game.
5c
PENGUIN POOL
 Each time you play a bird icon 
 Place next to at least 1 water space.
PENGUIN POOL
me you play a bird icon 
our zoo, gain 2 .
ext to at least 1 water space.
F
E
5b
Requires Africa icons
AFRICA
Requires Africa icons
AFRICA
ANGTHONG
Asia icon into the wild.
ANGTHONG
Asia icon into the wild.
5b
55555
D
5a
3C3

 Your Zoo Map 
Your zoo (1) is established in the large area in the middle 
of your zoo map. This is where you place buildings such as 
enclosures (standard or special enclosures), kiosks, pavilions, 
or unique buildings. An overview of all enclosures shows 
their sizes and shapes (2).
You are not allowed to build on the rock (R) and water (W) 
spaces, but some animals need an enclosure next to a rock or 
water space. All other spaces are building spaces, meaning 
you can place buildings on them. A space that has been built 
on is referred to as covered in game terminology. You are not 
allowed to build on spaces with the icon 
 until you have 
upgraded your Build action card (see A Turn / The 5 Action 
Cards on page 8 for more information).
Some spaces show a placement bonus 
 (3). You receive 
the bonus indicated by the icon immediately when you cover 
it. The icon overview explains all bonuses.
The left edge of your zoo map has bonus spaces that can be 
activated by supporting various conservation projects (4). At 
the beginning of the game these spaces hold 7 player tokens. 
Whenever you support a conservation project, you take 
one of these player tokens and place it on the Conservation 
Project card. This always gains you an immediate bonus and 
sometimes you gain that bonus again in each break.
The bottom of your zoo map has card slots to hold your 
Action cards (5). The number above each slot shows the 
strength of the Action card in that slot.
On the more advanced zoo maps you will ﬁnd a special 
ability that distinguishes your zoo from all others (6). Map 
A, which we recommend for your ﬁrst game, has the same 
special ability for all players. At the beginning of the game, 
place a 3-space enclosure on the indicated spaces, with the 
side showing the number 3 (the empty side) up.
 GAMEPLAY 
Ark Nova does not play in formal rounds; instead, players simply take turns (in clockwise order) taking one turn at a time until 
the end of the game is triggered. In addition, there are so-called breaks in between, when the game is put on hold for an 
administration phase. During these breaks you will discard cards down to your hand limit, recall workers, and gain income, 
among other things. The break procedure is explained in detail on page 18.
You always perform one action during your turn, which may trigger additional eﬀects and bonuses. You perform these actions 
with the 5 Action cards displayed below your zoo map. You can expand your zoo, play Zoo cards, and draw new Zoo cards. The 
position of the Action card determines how much you can do with that action. For more details on this mechanism, see the 
chapter A Turn / The 5 Action Cards on page 8.
W

 Zoo Cards 
The right side of your zoo map has spaces for partner zoos (7) and universities (8), 
of which there are 5 and 3 diﬀerent ones respectively. Note that there are partner 
zoos on all 5 continents, but you can only establish partnerships with a maximum of 
4 of them. Whenever you establish a new partnership with a zoo or a university, place 
the tile on the lowest empty space of the appropriate column. To get a third partner 
zoo, you must ﬁrst upgrade your Association action card (see A Turn / The 5 Action 
Cards on page 8 for more information). The diﬀerent background color and the 
icon serve as reminders. If there is a bonus depicted on the space where you place 
your partner zoo or university, you immediately receive that bonus.
A partner zoo makes it easier for you to accommodate an animal 
from that continent in your zoo, because the cost to do so is 
reduced by 3 money per continent icon on the Animal card.
A university grants you the bonuses and icons it shows. 
To the right are the supply spaces for your additional 
association workers (9), which you place here 
at the beginning of the game. Just like with 
partner zoos and universities, you use them 
from the bottom to the top, except that 
rather placing tiles, you remove workers. 
Whenever you are allowed to hire an 
association worker, you take one from 
here and place it on the notepad above as an 
active worker. Certain zoo maps reward you with 
conservation points for hiring your last worker.
All of your available association workers, money, and 
X-tokens are kept on the notepad (10) space above.
 The Break Track 
The game board has a Break track to count down the time remaining until the next break.
Animal cards 
are used to 
add animals to 
your zoo. They 
require an empty 
enclosure and 
provide your 
zoo with appeal 
points.
With Conservation Project cards you 
support conservation projects to 
collect conservation points. Usually, 
you specialize in speciﬁc animal 
species and the continents from which 
they originate. In some conservation 
projects, you are going to reintroduce 
animals into the wild. In addition to the 
Zoo cards for conservation projects, 
there are also Base Conservation 
Project cards that are available at 
the start of the game.
Sponsor cards 
allow you to hire 
specialists, build 
unique buildings, 
or achieve various 
other eﬀects, 
among other 
things.
aximum 
aximum 
aximum 5
The most important components in Ark Nova are the 3 diﬀerent types of Zoo cards. The individual card types will be explained 
in detail later.
At the beginning of the game, and after each break, the 
Break token goes on the starting space corresponding to 
your player count (1). Whenever you advance the Break 
token, move it the appropriate number of spaces towards 
the end of the Break track. When you reach the last space 
of the track (2), you call a break for everyone (see page 18). 
The break takes place after the end of your current turn. 
You get 1 X-token for reaching the last space of the Break 
track. Ignore any additional steps on the track (i.e. stop 
here). After the break, place the Break token back on the 
starting space of the track.

 A Turn / The 5 Action Cards 
Your Action cards are located below your zoo map. Each 
card is always assigned to a card slot at the bottom of the 
map. The number on the card slot indicates the strength 
 
with which you can use the Action card located there. The 
numbers range from 1 on the far left to 5 on the far right, 
meaning the further to the right your Action card is when you 
perform the action, the more powerful the action will be.
On your turn, choose one of your Action cards to perform its 
action, shift it to be lower than the others in the row, then 
perform the action of that card with a strength of 
. After 
completing the action, remove the chosen Action card from 
its slot, shift all Action cards to the left of the newly empty 
slot to the right, and place the chosen Action card in the 
now-empty slot 1 .
You may use X-tokens 
 to increase the strength of an 
action. For each X-token you use, increase the strength 
 of 
the action by 1. Then return the token to the general supply. 
You can use as many X-tokens as you like in one action. 
With some actions, however, a strength greater than 5 no 
longer improves the action. You can never have more than 
5 X-tokens. You set the strength of an action before you 
perform it. This means you can’t use X-tokens gained while 
performing the action to increase the strength of this action.
Some Zoo cards allow you to execute an eﬀect “after 
ﬁnishing” your action. In this case, complete your action, 
including moving the Action cards, before executing the 
eﬀect. 
At the beginning of the game, all your Action cards are 
displayed on side I . If you receive a card upgrade 
, you 
may ﬂip an Action card of your choice from side I to side II . 
The card remains in its current card slot. For the rest of the 
game, performing the action on this Action card has a more 
powerful eﬀect.
The individual actions are explained in detail on the following 
pages. Here is a short overview of the actions:
CARDS Action (page 9)
The Cards action allows you to gain new Zoo cards (Animals, 
Sponsor, and Conservation Project cards) from the deck or 
the display.
BUILD Action (page 10)
Enclosures are needed to accommodate animals in your zoo. 
The Build action allows you to build standard enclosures for 
animals of all categories or special enclosures for particular 
animal categories. You can build kiosks and pavilions as well. 
ANIMALS Action (page 11-13)
With the Animals action you can add animals to empty 
enclosures. You need to fulﬁll special conditions for this and 
pay the cost for the animal acquisition. In return, animals give 
you special abilities and add icons to your zoo, which you 
might need to support conservation projects.
ASSOCIATION Action (page 14-16)
With the Association action, you send your association 
workers to work in zoological associations. With their help, 
your reputation increases, you can gain universities and zoos 
from other continents as partners, support conservation 
projects, or donate to animal conservation.
SPONSORS Action (page 17)
The Sponsors action gains you the support of sponsors (by 
playing them into your zoo). They either support you directly 
or fund a project, such as a unique building. Many of them 
gain you an ongoing eﬀect or income. At the end of the 
game, you can gain additional appeal or conservation points 
from your sponsors.
X-TOKEN Action (page 18)
If you ﬁnd yourself in a situation in which you can’t or don’t 
want to perform any of the 5 actions, you may perform this 
alternative action to gain exactly 1 X-token. You must still 
select and move a card to slot 1, shifting all other cards to the 
right like in other actions. The strength of the slot the card is 
in does not contribute to this action.
There are 4 ways to upgrade one of your Action cards 
in the game: on the Conservation track, the Reputation 
track, and when you gain your second partner zoo or your 
second partner university. One of them allows you to choose 
an alternative. So be aware that you cannot upgrade all of 
your Action cards! In each game you will have to decide which 
upgrades are most important to you.
Example: Perform an action
For your action this turn, you choose the Build action in card slot 
4. Shift the card down, to indicate it is being used, and perform the 
action a strength of 4. Then, take the Action card into your hand, 
move the Action cards in slots 1–3 one slot to the right and place 
the Build Action card into the now available card slot 1.
 
 
 
 
at the end of your turn
 
 
 
 
Build 1 
a ma
d. 
ARDS
RDS
RDS
BREAK 2
sk
mpty size-3 enclosure 
At the beginning
after your action

Advance the Break token 2 spaces. Then draw 
cards from the deck OR snap.
DRAWING FROM THE DECK
Compare the strength 
 of the card slot this action is in with 
the table on the card. Draw up to the indicated number of 
cards (maximum 3) from the deck. Then, you might have to 
discard a card from your hand, which can be one of the cards 
you have just drawn or a card already in your hand.
SNAPPING
If you execute the action with a strength 
 of at least 5 , 
then instead of drawing several cards from the deck, you 
may take exactly 1 card from the display into your hand. This 
is called Snapping. You may take any card, regardless of the 
reputation of your zoo. Replenish the display at the end of 
your turn.
Whether you snap or draw from the deck, ﬁrst advance 
the Break token 2 steps (do not gain any money for this). 
You can have any number of cards in your hand after this 
action, but during the break, you may need to discard cards 
down to your hand card limit of 3 cards (or 5 with a speciﬁc 
university) (see Break on page 18).
Advance the Break token 2 spaces. Then draw 
cards from the deck or within reputation range 
DRAWING WITHIN REPUTATION RANGE
If you have upgraded the Cards action, you may draw cards 
within your reputation range, meaning from the display 
(up to your Reputation counter) and/or from the deck. In 
addition, the table printed on the card that determines the 
details of the action is upgraded. You may draw from the 
display and the deck in any order you choose, but the display 
is not replenished until you have completed your turn.
SNAPPING
If you have upgraded the Cards action, you can snap at a 
lower strength level, starting from a strength 
of 3 . If you choose the snap 
option, it makes no diﬀerence 
whether the strength is 3 
or higher.
In addition, after 
upgrading your 
Cards action, you may 
continue progressing past 9 reputation on the Reputation 
track. 
the Cards action, you can snap at a
tarting from a strength 
he snap 
ﬀerence 
s 3
 The Reputation Track and the Display 
The game board has a display of 6 cards (see B in the example: 
taking cards using side II below). Next to these cards is the 
Reputation track, where you keep track of the reputation of your 
zoo (see A in the example: taking cards using side II below).
Whenever you are allowed to increase the reputation of your zoo 
, advance your counter 1 step on this track. To increase the 
reputation of your zoo to 10 (or more), you must have upgraded 
the Cards Action card to side II . The 
 icon on space 10 
(folder 5) serves as a reminder.
If you advance your Reputation counter to a space with a bonus 
next to it, you take the bonus immediately and only once. If 
your counter has reached space 15 on the Reputation track and 
your zoo keeps receiving reputation, your counter will remain 
on space 15 and you instead take 1 appeal for each remaining 
reputation step you are due.
The location of your counter determines which cards in the 
display are “within reputation range” for you. Within reputation 
range is the card on the same folder as your counter as well as all 
cards on the lower-numbered folders. Meaning, the higher your 
zoo’s reputation, the more cards there are within your reputation 
range 
If you have taken one or more cards from the display, do not 
replenish the display until you have completed your entire 
turn. Then, move cards from the higher-numbered folders down 
to the lower-numbered folders. Do not change the order of the 
cards. Finally, ﬁll each empty space with a card from the deck.
Next to the display is the discard pile. You may not look through 
the discard pile during the game.
Example: Taking cards using side II 
You are blue, and you are performing the action with strength 5, 
which lets you take 4 cards and discard 1. Above all, you would like 
to have the Lion that is within your reputation range in the display. 
You take the Lion (1), draw 2 cards from the deck (2) and then decide 
to also take the Caracal from the display (3). Then you discard a card 
At the end of your action, the cards on folders 3, 5, and 6 move down 
(4) and you ﬂip over 2 new cards for folders 5 and 6 (5). If the Lion had 
not been within reputation range, you would only have been able to 
obtain it by snapping. In that case, you would not have been allowed 
to draw any more cards, but you could have completed the action 
with strength 3 or 4.
Panthera pardus – Vulnerable
Hunter 4
Reveal the 4 topmost cards of 
the deck. Choose 1 Animal card 
and add it to your hand.
Discard the other 
cards.
Multiplier: Build
Place 1 x2 on your 
Build Action card 
Panthera leo – Vulnerable
Pack
Gain 1 for each predator icon 
BAMBOO FOREST
Release 1 herbivore 
into the wild.
Caracal caracal
CARACAL
Hunter 2
Reveal the 2 topmost cards of 
the deck. Choose 1 Animal card 
and add it to your hand. 
Discard the other card.
able
able
ST
Panthera pardus – Vul
Panthera pardus
Vul
Hunter 4
Reveal the 4 topmost c
the deck. Choose 1An
and add it to your han
Discard the other
cards.
lnera
lnera
nim
re
S
rds of 
mal card
r
nd.
nerable
nerabl
nerabl
or icon
BAMBOO FO
Release 1herb
into the w
Panthera leo – Vuln
Panthera leo
Vuln
Panthera leo
Vuln
Pack
Gain 1 for each predato
ORES
bivor
wild.
re
RES
vo
th
Dis

Build exactly 1 building of your choice with 
 on your zoo map. Pay 
2 money per space. Available: Kiosk, pavilion, 
standard enclosure, and Petting Zoo.
The size of a building is measured by the number of spaces 
it covers on your zoo map. In this action, you have the kiosk 
(size 1), pavilion (size 1), various standard enclosures (sizes 
1–5), and the Petting Zoo (special enclosure size 3) at your 
disposal. Each zoo can contain only 1 Petting Zoo. Other 
buildings can be built more than once. Your zoo map shows 
an overview of all the buildings. All standard enclosures of 
each size and all of the diﬀerent special enclosures have the 
same shape.
You need enclosures to accommodate animals, while kiosks 
grant you income during every break. Each pavilion you 
build immediately (and only once) increases the appeal of 
your zoo by 1.
Pay the building cost into the general supply before placing 
the building on your zoo map. The cost of a building is twice 
the number of spaces it will cover, called the size. Therefore, 
cost = size x2 money.
Build the building adjacent to an existing one, meaning at 
least 1 edge of the new building must touch an edge of an 
existing one. For your ﬁrst building, instead, at least 1 space 
of it must be on a border space of your zoo map.
You may only build on the empty spaces of your zoo map. 
Buildings may not extend beyond the edge of the map, 
overlap other buildings, or cover water or rock spaces.
You are not allowed to build on spaces with the 
 icon yet. 
To do so, you must ﬁrst upgrade your Build action card.
A kiosk must always be at least 3 spaces from every other 
kiosk on your zoo map, meaning there must always be at 
least 2 spaces between 2 kiosks. The note below the partner 
zoo space on your zoo map serves as a reminder.
If you cannot build the desired building on your zoo map 
according to the rules above, you must choose a diﬀerent 
building. Note that the kiosk and the pavilion are on opposite 
sides of the same tile.
Build a standard enclosure with the empty side up so that 
it can still be occupied by an animal later. The empty side has 
a yellow edge and shows X , where X is the enclosure size. 
For the Petting Zoo both sides are the same.
If you cover one or more spaces with a 
, you immediately 
take the corresponding placement bonus once.
The bonuses are explained on the icon overview.
Build as many diﬀerent buildings as you like 
with a maximum total size of 
 on your zoo 
map. Newly available: Large Bird Aviary and 
Reptile House.
If you have upgraded the Build action, you may also build 
the special enclosures Large Bird Aviary and Reptile House 
(both size 5). Just like with the Petting Zoo, each zoo can only 
accommodate 1 Reptile House and 1 Large Bird Aviary. Both 
sides of these special enclosures are also the same.
When you build the Reptile House or Large Bird Aviary, 
you may immediately, and only once for each building, 
move animals from a standard enclosure to the new special 
enclosure. You are not allowed to do this at any other time 
in the game. Please refer to the Animals action and page 12 
speciﬁcally for more details on how special enclosures work.
You cannot build unique buildings with this action, they 
only come into play with the associated Sponsor cards.
In addition, you now have the opportunity to build several 
buildings with one action. However, you may not build 
2 identical buildings with the same Build action, each of them 
must be diﬀerent. The total size of these buildings must not 
exceed 
Build the buildings on your map one after the other. Pay 
for each building separately before you build it. If you cover 
a bonus icon, you immediately take the placement bonus 
before you build the next building. However, do not take any 
“after ﬁnishing” bonuses until the Build action is completed.
Upgrading your Build action also allows you to build on the 
spaces of your zoo map with the 
 icon, meaning you can 
now completely cover your zoo map. If you cover every space 
of your zoo map, immediately increase the appeal of your 
zoo by 7. This can happen through the Build action, but also 
through another eﬀect when something is built in your zoo. 
You must have covered every space on your zoo map, except 
for the water spaces and rock spaces.
Example: Building with a placement bonus
You are taking the Build action in card slot 5 and want to build a 
2-space and a 3-space standard enclosure. However, you only have 
7 money at your disposal and the two enclosures cost a total of 10. 
Since you are building your ﬁrst enclosure on a placement bonus 
5 money (1), you take this bonus immediately after building the 
ﬁrst enclosure. The money then becomes available to pay for your 
second enclosure (2).
Example: 
Possible 
building spaces 
for a kiosk
The green checkmarks 
indicate spaces 
where you may build 
another kiosk.
p A
Map
M p
M pA

Compare the strength 
 of the card slot this action is in with 
the table on the card. Play up to the indicated number of 
Animal cards from your hand.
Follow the steps below for each animal:
1. Check conditions: Any conditions you must fulﬁll in 
order to play the Animal card are indicated on the left 
side of the card. You can only play the card if you fulﬁll 
all the conditions (for example, a speciﬁc partner zoo 
or animal category as well as continent icons). 
The conditions are explained in the icon overview.
2. Pay cost: Pay the cost of the animal indicated in the 
upper-left corner of the Animal card. If you have a partner 
zoo on the continent from which the animal originates, 
this reduces the cost by 3 money per continent icon. Pay 
the money into the general supply. If you have a card that 
gains you money for playing the animal, you only take 
that money in a later step, meaning you must already 
have enough money beforehand to pay the full cost of 
the animal. 
3. Fill empty enclosure: To play an Animal card and 
accommodate the animal in your zoo, you need free 
spaces in an enclosure. You can place any animal, except 
, on its own into an empty 
standard enclosure. The enclosure must be at least the 
required size indicated in the upper-left corner of the 
Animal card. Then ﬂip the enclosure over to its occupied 
side. Some animals also state that their enclosure needs 
to be next to one or two water and/or rock spaces. 
The enclosure requirements of an animal are indicated 
next to the size of the standard enclosure on the card. 
Petting Zoo animals cannot be accommodated in a 
standard enclosure, only in their special enclosure, 
the Petting Zoo. All reptiles and some birds can be 
accommodated either in a standard or in a special 
enclosure, the Reptile House and the Large Bird Aviary, 
respectively. In that case the card shows two diﬀerent 
enclosure requirements, and you can choose whether 
to put the animal in a standard or special enclosure 
(for more details see Special Enclosures on page 12).
4. Place Animal card: Place the Animal card next to your 
zoo map (see Placing Cards on page 13).
5. Execute eﬀects: Whenever you play an animal, the 
appeal of your zoo increases. Advance your counter on 
the Appeal track the number of steps indicated on the 
card. Some animals also give you conservation project 
points or increase the reputation of your zoo. If so, also 
advance the counters on the corresponding tracks. Many 
animals have an additional eﬀect when they are played. 
If the eﬀect text contains “after ﬁnishing”, do not execute 
it until you have ﬁnished your entire Animals action. In all 
other cases, execute the eﬀect immediately, even before 
playing another Animal card. The same applies to eﬀects 
from other cards that are triggered by playing your 
Animal card. If there are multiple simultaneous eﬀects, 
you choose the order of execution (whether these eﬀects 
are appeal, reputation, conservation points, or gained by 
the ability of the animal or from other cards).
If an action allows you to play 2 Animal cards, play them 
one after the other and complete all of the 
above steps for the ﬁrst animal (except 
for eﬀects with “after ﬁnishing”) before 
doing the same again for the second 
animal. You may choose not to play a 
second Animal card.
Only after that, and after you have 
moved the Animals Action card to 
slot 1 of your zoo map, execute the 
“after ﬁnishing” eﬀects. If there are 
multiple eﬀects of this type, you 
choose the order of execution.
pt 
 Animal Card Layout 
Animal cards represent the diﬀerent animals you 
can accommodate in your zoo. 
(1) The upper-left corner explains the 
enclosure requirements you need to fulﬁll. 
The number in the hexagon indicates the 
minimum size enclosure this animal may 
be placed in. (2) Next to it may appear 
1 or 2 rock and/or water icons. This means 
that the enclosure must be next to at least 
that many spaces of the depicted type(s). 
(3) If the animal can also go in a special 
enclosure, that type, and the spaces the 
animal occupies, are depicted just to the 
right of the normal enclosure requirements. 
The water and rock requirements also apply 
to the special enclosure. 
(4) Below the enclosure requirements is the 
money cost you must pay to play the card 
and accommodate the animal in your zoo. 
(5) Below the costs, on the left side, some 
animals have additional conditions you need to 
consider. 
(6) The upper-right corner shows the animal’s 
category and (except for Petting Zoo animals) the 
continent from which it originates. These icons 
interact with all your other cards and are often 
important for completing conservation projects. 
(7) The lower-right corner shows the increase 
in your zoo’s appeal after the animal has been 
accommodated. Some animals oﬀer additional 
bonuses such as conservation project points or 
reputation. (8) Many animals have an eﬀect when 
played that is either executed immediately or 
following the Animals action (see Animal Abilities 
on Glossary pages 2–3.) If the Animal card’s eﬀect 
refers to an icon that appears on the card itself, that 
icon counts for the eﬀect.
Some Animal cards have an interactive 
eﬀect 
. This eﬀect can only apply to 
you if your zoo has 5 or more appeal. The 
5 space on the Appeal track is marked as 
a reminder.
(9) Some animals have a diﬀerent eﬀect in solo 
play, which is shown in a blue box with the 
 icon.
Gyps indicus – Critically Endangered
LONG-BILLED VULTURE
Scavenging 3
Shuffle the discard pile and draw 
3 cards from it. Add 1 to your hand 
and discard the others.
 Inventive Gain 2 
-tokens. 9

Example: Playing animals (immediate eﬀect)
You perform the Animals action with strength 5 to play 2 animals. First, you play 
the Eurasian Eagle-Owl (1). You pay the cost, ﬂip over a 2-space enclosure (2), gain 
4 appeal, and execute the card’s eﬀect, putting 2 new cards into your hand (3). 
Fortunately, the Eurasian Lynx is among them, which you much prefer to play 
over the Marabou. Therefore, you decide to play the Eurasian Lynx as your second 
animal (4).
Gain 2 every time you flip an adjacent standard enclosure to its occupied sid
Bubo bubo
Perception 4
Draw 4 cards from the deck. 
Add 2 to your hand and 
discard the rest.
bo bubo
bo bubo
Bubo bubo
Perce
m the deck. 
d and 
LE-
LE-
he d
Leptoptilos crumeniferus 
MARABOU
Scavenging 2
Shuffle the discard pile and draw 
2 cards from it. Add 1 to your 
hand and discard the other.
s cru
s cru
ard
Ad
rd t
umeniferus
umeniferus
BO
d pile and dra
d 1to your 
e other
BO
the other
the other
the other.
eni
enif
Support
Support
Suppo t
Suppo t
erus 
Su
erus 
require
d d
q
d d
Perception 4
Draw 4 cards from
Add 2 to your hand 
discard the rest.
Lynx lynx
Lynx lynx
EURASIAN LYNX
EURASIAN LYNX
Iconic Animal: Eu
Gain 1 for each Eu
in all zoos (max. 8).
raw 
ET
ET
rting
tititi
es onl
w
o
w
INA
TER
TERI
TE
on
g a co
ly 4
servat
servatio
servation p
ARIA
NA
vation projec
x lynx
x
Lynx x lynx
x
Lynx
AN
EURASIA
EURA
EURA
YNX
AN LY
EURASIA
E
Europe
Eu
Iconic Animal: Eu
Gain 1
icon 
urope i
 for each Eu
in all zoos (max 8
max 8)
all zoos (max 8)
s (max 8)
zoos (max. 8).
zoos
zoos (m
4 . 
on p
on project
project 
Ly
Lynx
YNX
AN LYNX
AN LY
ASIA
Iconic
lynx
urope
urope icon 
 Special Enclosures (Petting Zoo, Reptile House, Large Bird Aviary) 
There are 3 diﬀerent special enclosures: Petting Zoo (1), Reptile 
House (2), and Large Bird Aviary (3). Your zoo can only have one 
of each type of special enclosure.
 cannot be accommodated in a 
standard enclosure; only in their special enclosure, the Petting 
Zoo.
All reptiles and some birds can be accommodated either in a 
standard or in a special enclosure, the Reptile House and the 
Large Bird Aviary, respectively. In that case the card shows two 
diﬀerent enclosure requirements, and you can choose whether 
to put the animal in a standard or special enclosure. If an 
animal requires water and/or rock spaces next to its standard 
enclosure, the same requirement also applies to the respective 
special enclosure. 
If you want to accommodate the animal in a special enclosure, 
use player tokens from your supply to mark the number of 
enclosure spaces indicated in the special enclosure icon on 
the card. If there are not enough free spaces left in the special 
enclosure, you cannot accommodate the animal there. You 
never need to ﬂip a special enclosure: Both sides of the tile are 
the same.
If you build a Reptile House or a Large Bird Aviary and you 
already have animals in your zoo that could be accommodated 
there, you may immediately and only this once, move these 
animals into your corresponding new special enclosure. For 
each animal you move, ﬁnd the smallest occupied standard 
enclosure that meets the animal’s enclosure requirements 
(including water and rock spaces), and ﬂip it back to its 
empty side. Then mark the special enclosure with the suitable 
number of player tokens. If you have several animals that 
could potentially be moved, you may decide for each animal 
separately whether you want to move it or not.
Example: Playing animals (enclosures)
You play the Broad-snouted Caiman 
and have 2 options to accommodate 
it in your zoo. You could put it in your 
5-space standard enclosure, since this is 
at least size 4 and next to a water space. 
Then you would ﬂip the enclosure to its 
occupied side. But you would prefer to 
put the caiman into your Reptile House. 
This is also possible because it is next to 
water and has space for at least 2 of your 
player tokens. Place 2 of your tokens on 
the Reptile House. The 5-space enclosure 
is still available for another animal, such 
as a large non-reptilian.
Caiman latirostris
BROAD-SNOUTED CAIMAN
Snapping 1
Gain any 1 card from the display.
t d i
Z
i

 Play Animal cards from your hand or within 
reputation range.
If you have upgraded the Animals action, you may play 
animal cards directly from the display, instead of only from 
your hand. To do so, the respective card must be within 
your reputation range. In addition to the cost of the animal, 
you must pay an amount of money equal to the number on 
the folder from which you play the Animal card. If you are 
allowed to play 2 Animal cards, you may choose to play 2 
cards from your hand, 2 from the display, or 1 card from your 
hand and 1 card from the display. Play the animals one after 
the other. Do not replenish the display until you have ﬁnished 
your turn.
In addition, you may increase the reputation of your zoo by 1, 
if you perform this action with a strength of at least 5 . 
Increase the reputation at the very beginning of your action, 
so that your reputation range for this action is already higher.
Finally, after upgrading your Animals action, you may also 
play animals that have the 
 icon as a condition.
Example: Playing animals using side II 
You are red, and you use the upgraded Animals action to play 2 animals. 
Because you are performing the action with strength 5, you may ﬁrst 
increase the reputation of your zoo by 1 to a reputation of 4 (1). This 
means that folders 1–3 are now within reputation range for you. 
You play the European badger from folder 3 of the display (2) and 
therefore pay 3 money in addition to the normal cost of the animal. 
Then you play another animal from your hand, the Crested Porcupine 
(3). After you have populated the respective enclosures, increased the 
appeal of your zoo, and used the abilities of the animals, your turn 
ends. Before the next player takes their turn, you replenish the display.
EXPERT ON THE AMERICAS
: 1
 Each time you play an Americas 
icon into your zoo, you may build 
1 kiosk for free.
Pouch 1
You may place 1 card from your hand 
under this card to gain 2 . 
Gain 3 for each Petting Zoo 
Animal icon in your zoo.
Meles meles
EUROPEAN BADGER
you may place your Animals Action 
 on 1 or 5 .
Hystrix cristata 
Digging 2
Choose up to 2×: Discard 1 card 
from the display and replenish OR 
discard 1 card from your hand 
to draw 1 from the deck.
ata 
ata
scard 1card 
replenish OR 
our hand 
eck.
Posturing 1
You may place 1 free kiosk 
or pavilion.
stat
stat
RC
RC
Dis
nd
m 
PRIMATOLOGIST
 Each time a primate icon is played 
into any zoo, gain 3 .
GIS
GIS
icon
3 .
Vipera berus
COMMON EUROPEAN ADDER
Hypnosis 3
After the current action, you may perform 1 action 
 from an Action card in slot 1 , 2 , or 3 of 
the player with the most 
, unless that is you.
 Determination After the current 
action, perform 1 additional action 
Hystrix crista
Hystrix crista
CRESTED POR
Digging 2
Choose up to 2×: Dis
from the display and 
discard 1card from yo
to draw 1from the de
Meles me
Meles m
After ﬁnishing the cur
you may place your An
on 1 or 5 .
ou have popu
appeal of your zoo, and u
ends. Before the next play
Pouch 1
You may place 1card from your hand 
under this card to gain 2 . 
Gain 3 for each Petting Zoo 
Animal icon in your zoo.
ear Threatened
Posturing 1
You may place 1free kiosk 
or pavilion.
meles
meles
urrent action, 
nimals Action 
Vipera berus
COMMON EUROPEAN ADDER
Hypnosis 3
After the current action, you may perform 1 action 
 from an Action card in slot 1 , 2 , or 3 of 
the player with the most 
, unless that is you.
 Determination After the current 
action, perform 1 additional action 
EXPERT ON THE AMERICAS
: 1
 Each time you play an Americas 
icon into your zoo, you may build 
1 kiosk for free.
Puma concolor
COUGAR
Jumping 3
Advance the Break token 3 spaces. 
Gain 3 .
Meles meles
EUROPEAN BADGER
you may place your Animals Action 
 on 1 or 5 .
PRIMATOLOGIST
 Each time a primate icon is played 
into any zoo, gain 3 .
Eunectes murinus
ANACONDA
Constriction
Each player ahead of you on a track 
gains 1 Constriction token for each of 
those tracks ( 
 and 
).
 Clever After the current action, you 
may place any Action card on 1 .
Placing Cards
Place your played Sponsor 
and Animal cards overlapping 
each other to save space. All 
information you need for the rest 
of the game is shown at the top 
of the card. 
Some Sponsor cards have an 
additional eﬀect at the end 
of the game. These cards are 
marked with a vertical brown 
strip behind the card level (such 
as on the 2nd card played in this 
example). This makes cards with 
endgame eﬀects easier to ﬁnd 
once they have been played.
There are 7 animal categories 
in Ark Nova: 
 Bird
 Herbivore
 Predator
 Primate
 Bear
 Petting Zoo animal
2 of these 7 categories are special cases, bear 
 and Petting Zoo 
animal 
. Thus, in contrast to the other categories, their icon is 
black on a white background.
The bears 
 are more of a subcategory. Their icon mostly occurs 
in combination with the herbivore 
 or predator 
 icon.
For gameplay reasons, we invented a separate category for 
, replacing the biological category.
If the game asks for animal categories, it includes bear and 
Petting Zoo animals as well. If this is ever not the case, they 
are explicitly excluded.
Animal categories

Perform exactly one association task.
To carry out an association task, you need at least 1 active 
association worker on your zoo map. Place this worker on 
the Association board on the task you want to perform. If 1 
of your association workers is already on this task, you must 
instead place 2 to perform this task. If 3 of your association 
workers are already on this task, you cannot perform it again 
for the time being. Association workers in colors other than 
your own do not matter here. 
In a break, all your association workers return to your zoo 
map and become active again. As a result, all the tasks again 
become available to perform with 1 association worker. More 
about this in Break on page 18.
Each task requires a diﬀerent action strength 
. You can 
only perform an association task if your Action card’s strength 
is at least as high as the task’s strength number.
The various tasks are:
Increasing reputation: Increase the reputation of 
your zoo by 2. Advance your Reputation counter 
on the Reputation track and receive any bonus shown, if 
applicable.
The reputation of your zoo determines how many cards you 
can access in the display (reputation range). In addition, 
a certain minimum reputation is required to play certain 
Sponsor cards (see Sponsors action page 17).
Gaining a partner zoo: Take a partner zoo from the 
Association board and place it on the lowest empty 
partner zoo space on your zoo map. If that space shows 
a bonus, take it once and immediately. You cannot take a 
partner zoo that you already have, all your partner zoos must 
be from diﬀerent continents. Also, you may take a maximum 
of 4 partner zoos in total; your zoo map does not have space 
for a 5th. To take a third (or fourth) partner zoo, you must 
have upgraded the Association action to side II . If you 
already have all the partner zoos that are on the Association 
board at that moment, or if you cannot place the partner 
zoo on your zoo map, you cannot perform this task. In the 
break, the supply of partner zoos on the Association board is 
replenished (see Break page 18).
Each partner zoo reduces the cost of playing all Animal cards 
from its continent by 3 money per continent icon on the 
Animal card. It also provides you 1 icon of the respective 
continent, which may trigger other card eﬀects and may 
count towards conservation projects. Certain Animal cards 
require a partner zoo from the same continent.
Gaining a partner university: Take a university 
from the Association board and place it on the 
lowest available university space of your zoo map. If that 
space shows a bonus, take it once and immediately. You 
also advance your Reputation counter accordingly if this is 
depicted on the university. You cannot take a university you 
already have. So, if you already have all the universities that 
are on the Association board at that moment, you cannot 
perform this task. In the break, the supply of universities on 
the Association board is replenished (see Break page 18).
Universities increase the reputation of your zoo, grant 
research icons, and are the only way to increase your hand 
limit to 5 cards.
 The Association Board 
The Association board is divided into 2 areas. In the blue area are the tasks that you can perform using your association workers. 
If you have not upgraded the Association action, you can only perform exactly 1 of these tasks. In the pink area, after upgrading 
your Association action card, you can gain additional conservation project points by donating to animal conservation 
organizations. Above and below the Association board are the conservation projects that you can support.
Th
Th

Conservation project work: You may either support 
a conservation project already in play or play a 
Conservation Project card from your hand and support 
it immediately. If you bring a new Conservation Project 
card into play, place it above the Association board on the 
leftmost space. If there is already a conservation project 
there, move all the Conservation Project cards above 
the board one place to the right before placing the card. 
Depending on your player count, there can only be up to 
2, 3 or 4 cards above the Association board. If (after placing 
the new conservation project) there are more cards above 
the board than is allowed for your player count, put the 
rightmost card on the discard pile. Return any player tokens 
on the discarded card to the supply (not to the zoo map) of 
the corresponding player. The base conservation projects 
below the Association board are never moved even when 
they are fully supported. Also no new base conservation 
projects are added during the game.
To support a conservation project, you must fulﬁll a condition 
(depicted on the card) that has no player token on it. You are 
only allowed to support each conservation project once. This 
means you cannot support a project that already has one of 
your player tokens on it.
Place 1 player token of your choice from the left side of 
your zoo map on the condition you fulﬁll, and as a reward 
advance your Conservation counter and Reputation counter 
(if applicable) per the depicted award on the card. If you can 
fulﬁll more than one condition, you choose which one. An 
explanation of the various conservation projects is in the 
Glossary on page 1.
When you take the player token from your zoo map, you 
activate the corresponding bonus. You always gain the bonus 
immediately. With some of them, you also gain the bonus 
again during each break. Choose whether you take this 
bonus before or after the reward for the conservation project. 
The bonuses are explained in the icon overview.
Tip: It is sometimes worthwhile to support a conservation project 
on a lower level, for example in order to get the bonuses on the 
Conservation track or to activate an income on the left side of 
your zoo map early in the game.
Conservation projects in which 
you release an animal into the 
wild work slightly diﬀerently. 
Instead of collecting a number of 
icons, you must discard 1 Animal 
card with a speciﬁc icon from 
your zoo (in this case, Africa A). 
You choose the matching animal 
to discard but the animal must 
require a standard enclosure of 
the depicted size (B). Whether 
the animal can also be placed in 
a special enclosure is irrelevant to 
the condition. Move your Appeal 
counter back as many steps as indicated on the Animal card. 
Flip the smallest occupied standard enclosure that meets the 
animal’s requirements from the occupied side to the empty side 
or remove the appropriate number of player tokens from your 
special enclosure, repectively. Place the Animal card on the 
discard pile. See Glossary page 1 for details to Release into the 
Wild conservation projects.
These cards represent the diﬀerent conservation projects you 
can support. Each card depicts 3 conditions (1) to fulﬁll, as well 
as the corresponding rewards (2). Certain Conservation Project 
cards grant an additional bonus to the player who plays them 
(3). There are two types of conservation projects. 
In most cases, you must have a 
certain number of a speciﬁc icon 
in your zoo (in the example to 
the left, Reptiles). Count the icons 
on the top edge of all your cards, 
both on Animal and Sponsor cards 
(including the water or rock space 
requirements, but not including 
the conditions on the left) as 
well as on your partner zoos and 
universities.
You play a new Conservation Project card from 
your hand: Large Animals. Since there are 
three players and 3 conservation projects are 
already out, you must ﬁrst discard the rightmost 
Conservation Project card (Reptile Breeding 
Program) (1), move the other two project 
cards one position to the right (2), and then 
place the new Large Animals card in the newly 
available space on the left (3). Since you have 
3 large animals in your zoo, take a player token 
from your zoo map and place it on the middle 
condition (4). For this you gain 3 conservation 
project points. You also get the bonus on the 
space from which you took your player token, 
which was to immediately (and only once) take 
3 X-tokens.
Example: Playing a Conservation Project card
Requires water icons 
AQUATIC
Requires large animals 
LARGE ANIMALS
Requires large animals
LARGE ANIMALS
NG PROGRAM
1 2
and a partner 
continent.
REPTILE BREEDIN
2 2
Requires 1reptile a
zoo of the same c
er icons
TIC
e anima
NIMALS
s
S
+3
wild
 Conservation Projects Layouts 

Perform one or more diﬀerent association 
tasks. You may make one donation.
If you have upgraded the Association action, you may 
perform several diﬀerent association tasks with one action. 
For each task, you need 1 or 2 of your association workers. 
The total value of all association tasks may not exceed the 
strength 
 of your action card. The total value may be less.
If you select to perform conservation project work and 
support a new Conservation Project card, you may play that 
card directly from the display. The card you play must be 
within your reputation range. As an additional cost, you must 
pay an amount of money equal to the number on the folder 
from which you play the Conservation Project card. Do not 
replenish the display until you have completed your turn.
In addition to the association tasks, you are allowed to make 
exactly 1 donation to an animal welfare program. Pay the 
smallest amount of money visible in the “donation” area ( 
into the general supply and then cover the corresponding 
space with one of your player tokens (from your supply) so 
that the amount of money on this space is no longer visible. 
You gain 1 conservation point for this. If all spaces but the 
last one are occupied by player tokens, each subsequent 
donation costs 12 money, and you do not have to place any 
more tokens on that space.
To be able to make a donation, you must have performed 
at least 1 association task during the same action. You do 
not need an association worker to make a donation. You can 
make a maximum of 1 donation per Association action.
You decide to spend an X-token for the Association action in card 
slot 5 to execute it with strength 6. You gain one university and 
2 reputation with one association worker each (1). In addition, 
you pay 5 money as a donation and gain one conservation point 
for it (2). The next donation will cost 7 money.
Example: Association tasks with side II 
kiosk here.
You decide to release your African Spurred Tortoise into the 
Serengeti National Park. The tortoise needs a 3-space enclosure 
and thus fulﬁlls the middle condition, which is still unclaimed. You 
decide to mark the remaining space on the Conservation Project 
card with your player token from the “12 money” space (1).
As the animal leaves your zoo, you remove 
2 player tokens from your Reptile House 
and take them back into your supply. You 
move your counter on the Appeal track 
back 6 steps (the animal’s appeal). The 
other information on the card doesn’t 
matter. Then you advance your counter on 
the Conservation track 4 steps and take 
12 money (since you took the player token 
from the corresponding bonus space). 
Finally, you place the African Spurred 
Tortoise card on the discard pile (2).
Example: Releasing an animal
Centrochelys sulcata – Endangered
You may sell up to 3 cards from 
your hand for 4 each.
Physignathus cocincinus – Vulnerable
CHINESE WATER DRAGON
Sunbathing 2
You may sell up to 2 cards from 
your hand for 4 each.
WATER PLAYGROUND
 Place next to at least 1 water space.
Sus scrofa form. domestica
MANGALICA
Digging 1: Choose up to 1x: Discard 1 card 
from the display and replenish OR discard 1 card 
from your hand to draw 1 from the deck.
Gain 3 for each Petting Zoo Animal 
icon in your zoo.
1 building with a Build action 
you may build exactly 1 more of 
the same kind (except for special 
enclosures) 
at the normal 
cost.
covered. : 5
1 building with a Build action
b ild
tl 1 more of 
th same kind except for special
enclosures)
at the normal 
cost.
ZoZoo map
com
com
coco
X :
red
h time you build at least
Centrochelys sulcata – Endanger
h time you build at least
Centrochelys sulcata
Endangered
b ld
Centrochelys sulcata
Endanger
b ld
1 building with
1 building with
You may sell up to 3 cards from
you may build
You may sell up
you may build exactly 1
p to 3 card
exactly 1 more 
s from
more 
your hand for 
the
your
the same kin
hand for
same kind e
d (4
d4
d (4(excep
each.
excep
43434
m
o
map
mpletely 
mpletely 
ove
ove
pletely
pletely
vever
yly
red.
plet
plet y
ere
ere .
tely
tely
ed.
ed.
plet
plet1
et1
etet1
et
e1e1e1t1t1t
ed1ed
ed1ed
: 5
: 56565

Play exactly 1 Sponsor card OR advance the 
Break token and take money. 
This action allows you to play exactly 1 Sponsor card from 
your hand, provided that the strength 
 of the action is at 
least equal to the level of the Sponsor card and you meet any 
conditions on the card (depicted on the left side of the card). 
Execute the instant eﬀect (if available) and/or the recurring 
eﬀect of the card (if available and triggered by the icon on 
this Sponsor card), then place it next to your zoo map.
Alternatively, you can use this action to advance the 
Break token 
 steps and take 
 money for doing so. 
You still take 
 money even if the Break token doesn’t need 
all 
 steps to reach the ﬁnal space. 
Play one or more Sponsor cards OR advance 
the Break token and take money. 
If you have upgraded the Sponsors action, you can play 
multiple Sponsor cards with one action. The strength 
 
of your action plus 1 must be at least as high as the sum of 
the levels on all played cards (remember, with the help of 
X-tokens you can also increase the 
 beyond 5 ). Play the 
cards one after the other, meaning you completely execute 
all the instant eﬀects of one card (except for “after ﬁnishing” 
eﬀects) before playing the next card. 
When playing Sponsor cards, you may choose to play them 
from the display or your hand. Any cards played from 
the display must be within your reputation range. Pay an 
additional cost equal to the number on the folder from which 
you play the Sponsor card. Do not replenish the display until 
you have completed your turn.
If you use the Sponsors action to advance the Break token, 
you take 
 money twice.
Finally, after upgrading your Sponsors action, you may also 
play Sponsor cards that have the 
 icon as a condition.
(1) The level for each Sponsor card is in its upper-left corner. 
(2) If the card lets you place a special building in your zoo, 
and this building must be built next to water or rocks, this 
requirement is shown next to the level (where it would also 
be on Animal cards). (3) Any conditions that you must fulﬁll in 
order to play the card are shown on the left side of the card. (4) 
If the card itself provides a icon, it is depicted in the upper-right 
corner.
Sponsor cards can have a variety of diﬀerent eﬀects. (5) If the 
card has a recurring eﬀect, this is shown at the top of the card 
on a blue background, unless it gives you income during every 
break, in which case the background is purple.
(6) A one-oﬀ eﬀect when playing the card is indicated by a 
yellow background in the lower-left corner of the card. (7) 
An eﬀect during the ﬁnal scoring is indicated by a brown 
background in the lower-right corner of the card. A vertical 
brown strip behind the card level (1) serves as a reminder that 
this card has an eﬀect in the ﬁnal scoring (in case you place the 
cards overlapping each other).
If an eﬀect on a Sponsor card refers to an icon that appears 
on the Sponsor card itself, this icon counts for the eﬀect or for 
triggering the eﬀect. However, only the icons in the upper-right 
corners of cards (4) are used, not those anywhere else on the 
card, except for the rock and water icons, which are in the upper-
left corner.
(8) Some eﬀects are already explained on the Sponsor card itself; 
all card eﬀects are explained on Glossary pages 4–7.
MEERKAT DEN
 Each time you play a herbivore icon 
 Place next to at least 1 rock space.
Use the Sponsors action to play the Meerkat Den 
card (see above). You need an action strength 
of 5 and the reputation of your zoo must be at 
least 3. You take the Meerkat Den from the unique 
buildings and place it on your zoo map, next to at 
least 1 rock. You can recognize the Meerkat Den 
by the icon in the lower-left corner of the card. 
Since the Meerkat Den itself has an herbivore 
icon, the appeal of your zoo immediately 
increases by 2. 
Example: Playing a Sponsor card
ze-3 enclosure next to the ki
MEERKAT DEN
 Each time you play a herbivore icon 
 Place next to at least 1 rock space.
e 3 enclosure nex
At the beginning of the game, place an empty size
KAT DEN
u play a herbivore icon 
o, gain 2 .
o at least 1 rock space.
lace an empty size
 Sponsor cards Layout 

Take 1 X-token.
If you cannot or do not want to perform any of the 5 actions, 
you can still use this alternative action and take 1 X-marker. 
You can perform this action using any Action card. It is 
independent of the 
 value of the card’s slot. It doesn’t 
matter whether the Action card has been upgraded. 
You must still select an Action card, move it to slot 1, and shift 
the intervening cards to the right. Then, take an X-token. If 
you already have 5 X-tokens, you cannot perform this action.
 
Appeal and Conservation Points 
During the game you increase the appeal of your zoo and 
collect conservation points. This is necessary to win and also 
helps you during the game.
The appeal of your zoo determines how much money you 
earn in each break.
Additionally, there are 4 spaces on the Conservation track 
that provide an immediate one-time eﬀect when you reach 
or pass them. Those spaces are the following:
• 2 conservation points: 
Either upgrade one of your Action cards 
(ﬂip it over) or activate an additional 
association worker (take a lying worker 
from the lowest space below the 
notepad and place it onto the notepad). Either option is 
available to each player who reaches space 2.
• 5 / 8 conservation points: 
Take either 5 money or one of the 
bonus tokens next to this space on the 
Conservation track. Execute the eﬀect 
(money or Bonus token) immediately. If 
you take a Bonus token, remove it from 
the game afterwards. The option to take 
5 money remains even after both Bonus 
tokens are gone.
• 10 conservation points: 
The ﬁrst time a player reaches, or exceeds, 
10 Conservation Points, all players choose 
and discard one of their Final Scoring cards. 
Place them facedown under the pile of 
remaining Final Scoring cards. If no one accrues 10 
Conservation Points before the game ends, all players 
must choose and discard a Final Scoring card before end 
game scoring can begin.
 Break 
Ark Nova does not follow a ﬁxed round system. You take 
turns, taking 1 turn at a time, until the Break token has 
advanced to the last space of the Break track 
. An Action 
card, Sponsor card, or Animal card eﬀect could cause this to 
happen. If you trigger the break, complete your current 
action, take the Break token, and all of you perform the 
following steps in order:
1. Hand card limit: 
If you have more cards in your hand than your 
hand limit allows, discard any surplus cards of 
your choice from your hand to the discard pile. 
Normally your hand limit is 3, but a particular 
university allows you to hold 5 ( 5 ).
2. Tokens on Action cards: 
If you have Multiplier, Venom, and/or 
Constriction tokens on your Action cards, 
return them to the supply. They no longer 
have any eﬀect.
3. Association board: 
Return all your association workers from 
the Association board to the notepad on 
your zoo map. They become available to 
you again as active workers. Replenish the 
display of partner zoos and universities so that each zoo 
and university is again available exactly once. There is no 
need to replenish universities and partner zoos that all 
players already have.
4. Replenish display: 
Discard the two bottom cards of the display 
(folders 1 and 2) to the discard pile, move 
the remaining cards down and replenish 
the display. The icon
 on folders 1 
and 2 serves as a reminder.
5. Take income: 
 Most of the time, all players can take their income 
simultaneously. Some eﬀects may require this to happen 
in player order, such as multiple players having an eﬀect 
that allows them to take a card from the display. In these 
situations, begin with the player who initiated the Break, 
or the aﬀected player closest to the player who initiated 
Break, and proceed clockwise around 
the table.
a. Collect income according to 
the appeal of your zoo. 
Take the amount of money 
indicated next to your 
counter on the Appeal 
track. 
Example: If your 
counter is on space 7 
of the Appeal track, 
take 11 money.
a
c
{
X-TOKEN
ing to 
o. 
oney 

If you notice, in order to have a positive score, your Appeal tracker 
and Conservation tracker have to cross one another! Keep that in 
mind as you make decisions and maximize your score!
You take 4 money for your kiosks, 2 money for each of them.
Example: Income for kiosks
(1) Blue has 22 conservation 
points; the lowest appeal value in 
that scoring area is 58. 
(2) Blue has only 54 appeal, 
which means Blue is 4 points 
short of that “target”: Blue has 
−4 victory points.
(3) Red has 23 conservation 
points; the lowest appeal value 
in that scoring area is 55. (4) Red 
has 64 appeal, which means Red 
is 9 points beyond that “target”: 
Red has 9 victory points.
Red has 64 appeal and 
20 conservation points. Both 
counters are in the same 
scoring area. The game end is 
triggered.
Example: Final scoring
Example: End of game
in 
b. Collect income for the kiosks on your zoo map. Check 
each kiosk on your zoo map separately. You take 
1 money for each unique building, special enclosure, 
occupied standard enclosure, and pavilion adjacent to 
it. A building must share at least one side of one space 
with a kiosk in order to be considered adjacent to it. An 
empty standard enclosure does not provide income 
(but an empty special enclosure does).
c. Collect all the income indicated by the following icon: 
. The icon appears on some Sponsor cards and 
in some bonuses on the left side of your zoo map. 
Take only the bonuses on your zoo map that you 
have already activated (those you have uncovered by 
placing the player token on a conservation project). 
6. Break track: 
Return the Break token to the starting space for your 
player count.
Then the break ends, and the game continues with the next 
player in clockwise order taking their next turn.
 END OF GAME & FINAL SCORING 
If a player’s Conservation counter and Appeal counter are 
ever in the same scoring area, or if they pass one another, 
the end of the game is triggered. Scoring area means one 
space on the Conservation track and the adjacent spaces on 
the Appeal track. The player who triggered the end of the 
game will complete their turn and all other players will take 
one more turn before moving on to ﬁnal scoring. If the end 
of the game is triggered during a break, all players will take 
one more turn.
At the end of the game, you still get points from your 
Final Scoring card(s), as well as from all your cards with 
an end-of-game icon 
. Remember, if no player reached 
10 conservation points, all players should discard one of their 
Final Scoring cards before adding these points to your totals. 
Finally, it’s time to tally Victory Points. Begin by looking at 
the scoring area where your Conservation tracker is located. 
Find the lowest Appeal value in that scoring area. This is your 
Target Number. Compare your Target Number to the value of 
your Appeal tracker. Subtract your Target Number from your 
Appeal value and the result is your Victory Points. The player 
with the highest positive Victory Point total is the winner. 
In case of a tie, the tied player who supported the most 
Conservation Projects wins the game (you can determine this 
by counting how many player tokens have been removed 
from left side of your zoo map). If the score is still a tie, all tied 
players share the victory.
Each Final Scoring card uses either a table (below, left) or text 
(below, right) to indicate how you can gain 1-4 additional 
Conservation Points at the end of the game. For scoring 
purposes, consider your universities and the cards in front 
of you and the icons on them. You can never gain more than 
4 conservation points from a single Final Scoring card.
Gain 
 for Sponsor cards 
SPONSORED ZOO
8 10
Gain 1 for each 
 animal category icon 
of which you have more 
than the person to your 
right. Max. 4 .
BIODIVERSE ZOO
>
: Do not use. Draw another card.
 Final Scoring Card Layout 

 SOLO GAME 
If you play Ark Nova on your own, modify the rules as follows:
Setup
• Lay out 3 basic Conservation Project cards and do not 
place any tokens of a diﬀerent color on them (i. e. like 
a 3-player setup).
• Do not use the Break token. Instead, place 7 player 
tokens of any unused color on the spaces in the left 
column of the solo tile (A).
• You start the game with 20 appeal.
Turn / Cards
Cards with interactive eﬀects have a blue stripe at the bottom 
with the 
 icon; the contents of the blue stripe replace the 
card’s interactive eﬀect with an appropriate solo eﬀect. You 
will ﬁnd this feature on 1 Final Scoring card and a number of 
Animal cards.
There can be up to 2 Conservation Project cards above the 
Association board.
If you perform an action that would advance the Break token, 
it simply doesn’t. If you would take money for moving it, you 
still get the money. You do not get an X-token for triggering a 
break (see Gameplay / Breaks to the right). 
Examples: You play the Cougar with the ability Jump 3. Although 
there is no Break token to advance, you still take 3 money.
You use the upgraded Sponsors action with a strength X of 4 for 
the break ability. Although there is no Break token to advance, 
you still take 8 money.
 Gameplay / Breaks
Every time you end a turn, move the topmost player token in 
the left column of the solo tile onto the space to its right (in 
the right column) (1). If you move the last token from the left 
column into the right column (2) (and thus reveal the break 
icon), you immediately resolve a break. 
At the end of the break, place the topmost player token 
onto the open donation space with the smallest number 
on the Association board (3) (if all the other spaces, except 
for space 12, are already occupied place it next to space 12, 
even if this has no eﬀect on the donations) and move the 
remaining tokens back into the left column of the solo tile 
(but now 1 more row is empty).
The game ends after 6 rounds, when only 2 tokens are left on 
the solo tile and you moved the bottom one to the right. Do 
not trigger another break, but do the ﬁnal scoring instead. 
If you have at least 0 victory points after the ﬁnal scoring 
(meaning both your Appeal counter and Conservation 
counter have reached the same scoring area or passed each 
other), you have won the solo game.
Difficulty Levels / Solo Challenge
We recommend that beginners start the solo game with 
an appeal of 20. Depending on your experience, you could 
instead start the game with 10 or even 0 appeal. Starting the 
solo game with 0 appeal is quite a challenge! Feel free to play 
as many games as you like at each diﬃculty level.
As a special challenge, play 3 games in a row. In this case, 
do not shuﬄe the cards after each game. Instead, remove all 
cards from that particular game (discard pile, display, all of 
your cards, and all of the conservation projects) and set up 
the game with the remaining cards. Also remove the two zoo 
maps you had to choose from, as well as the 4 Bonus tiles. 
For the third game, you will have to reuse a random 3 of the 
removed Bonus tiles.
You no longer have access to the cards that are out of play, 
with the only exception being the animal abilities Assertion 
and Dominance.
At the end of each game, record your score; then total all 
3 scores at the very end. If the sum is at least 0 (i.e. not 
negative) you have passed the challenge!
Example: Setup and Gameplay
( (
 
p and Gameplay
/
 
 
Game design: Mathias Wigge • Graphics design: Christof “do-all” Tisch, 
Steﬀen Bieker • Illustrations: Loїc Billiau, Dennis Lohhausen 
Cover: Steﬀen Bieker • Editing & Realization: Bastian Winkelhaus, 
Inga Keutmann, Frank Heeren • Proofreading: Donny Behne, Nathan Morse
We would like to thank Corinna Spellerberg and Ursula Steinhoﬀ 
for their support with the translation and typesetting and 
Andreas Resch for making the 3D game scene.
Representing the many playtesters and supporters, we thank Gernot Köpke, 
Denny Delakowitz, Zsolt Hevesi, Jonas Langenbrinck, Tomas Hansel, 
Roland Hoyer, Sebastian Born, Paul Borczyk, Alexandra Nikolay, 
Tobias Bruch, Helge Ostertag, Jan Henry, Olaf Darge, Pan Pollack, 
Jule Pollack, Carsten Stürmer, Lea Reinisch, Patrick Hofauer, 
Stephan Rink, Claudia Scharf, Hanno Girke, Niels Roehl, Jan Kempf, 
Tobias Zimmermann, Arne Aßmann, Christoph Keutmann, Karol Pryk, 
Christian Hildenbrand, James Hourston, Tina Steinbrecher, Simon 
Poppinga, Christin Pfaﬀ, Daniel Lau, Lisa Hofman, Christan Brinker, 
Jens Will, Florian Bücherl, Alexander Fendt, Kilian Grieb, Armin Stangl, 
Sascha Rings, Florian Schlusnus and especially Tina Landwehr-Rödde. 
© 2021 Feuerland 
Verlagsgesellschaf mbH
Wilhelm-Reuter-Straße 37
65817 Eppstein-Bremthal
www.feuerland-spiele.de
Version 1.0
Looking for more information or missing something?
https://capstone-games.com/board-games/ark-nova
Distributed in the UK by:
Esdevium Games Ltd, trading as Asmodee UK
6 Waterbrook Road, Alton, GU34 2UD, UK
Capstone Games
2 Techview Drive, Suite 2
Cincinnati, OH 45215
www.capstone-games.com
 Credits