MATERIAL
—-—-—-=-—-—-—
1 game board
1 building lot for the castle 
(with 10 squares for the castle pieces) 
4 screens in the players’ colours 
(yellow, orange, green, violet) 
16 architect banners (4 in each player’s colour)
40 building cards
40 buildings in 7 different forms:
1 residential house, 2 farm, 3 tavern, 4 mill,
5 smithy, 6 trade centre, 7 monastery
88 seals of the 4 families (8 of them with the value 5)
Red = cloth merchants, olive = spice merchants,
black = carpenters, silver = silversmiths
44 workers (11 in each player’s colour)
24 neutral workers (beige)
28 castle pieces
Stick one of the square seal tiles in each castle piece with the help
of the attached double-sided stickers. This should be done by an
adult.
Gold coins with the values 1, 5 and 10
AIM OF THE GAME
—-—-—-—-=-—-—-—-—
Players build houses and the central castle in the town of
Arkadia. For constructing houses, they get seals of the four
families. Whenever a house is completed, castle construction
is continued. Subject to the family’s contribution to the castle 
construction, the value of the family’s seal changes. In the
course of the game, each player can convert his seals into
gold – he may decide when to do this himself. The player
with the most gold wins the game.
Arkadia
For 2 – 4 players aged 10 – 99 years
Author: Rüdiger Dorn · Illustrations: Michael Menzel, Walter Pepperle
Design: DE Ravensburger, KniffDesign · Photos: Becker Studios
Ravensburger Game® Nr. 26 433 9
WELCOME TO ARKADIA
—-—-—-—-—-—-=-—-—-—-—-—-—
In a remote land there lies a region with undulating hills and fertile valleys. Widely-travelled 
settlers have laid the foundation stone for the city of Arkadia. In addition to several other 
buildings they want to construct a magnificent castle on a hill. Four wealthy families – the cloth 
merchants, the spice merchants, the carpenters and the silversmiths – want to enhance prestige 
and augment their influence. For this reason, they compete for the major contribution to the castle’s 
construction. Players act as architects. The four families commission them to plan and realise the 
build-up of the town and the castle.
Building lot for the castle
Architect banners
Building cards
Buildings
Seals
Workers
Seal tiles
Castle piece
Gold

PREPARATION
—-—-—-—-—-=-—-—-—-—-—
If you are playing for the first time, punch out
the elements carefully.
Stick one of the 28 square seal tiles in each
castle piece as shown in the illustration.
For the first game we recommend the set-up shown on page
7 of these rules. This will make it easier to learn the game.
Set the game board up as described and then continue
reading here.
Now proceed as follows for the preparation of the game:
• Place the game board in the centre of the table.
• The building lot for the castle is placed in the grid so that
no square with a tent camp (see illustration
on the left) is covered.
• Each player gets a screen (construction
tent) as well as the 4 architect banners and
3 workers of their colour. The four banners are suspended
on the top of the screen facing outwards. Place the 3
workers behind your screen.
• The remaining workers (including the neutral beige ones)
form the general pool that is placed next to the game
board.
• The castle pieces are distributed on the three pool areas
at the border of the game board as follows: Place 12 pie-
ces (3 red ones, 3 olive ones, 3 silver ones and 3 black
ones) on the pool areas for the first and second floor of
the castle respectively. Since there are only 8 squares, you
stack up 2 pieces of the same colour on the squares at
the border of the game board. The remaining 4 castle pie-
ces are placed on the 4 coloured pool squares for the
third floor. The 4 neutral pool squares for the third floor
remain empty at the moment. They will be used in the
course of the game.
• Sort the buildings by their forms and place them next to
the game board.
• The seals and the gold are placed next to the game
board, too.
• Shuffle the building cards thoroughly. Each player gets 4
cards, face down. Place 3 additional cards face-up next to
the game board. Form a stack with the remaining cards
and place it on the table, face down.

HOW TO PLAY
-—-—-—-—-=-—-—-—-—-
The youngest player starts. Then, play continues in a clockwi-
se direction.
A player’s turn is divided into two parts:
1. MUST
The player chooses one of the following possibilities:
A) Playing a building card and laying out the 
corresponding building
or
B) Introducing one or several workers
2. CAN
Afterwards, the player may use one of their architect 
banners.
The possibilities in detail:
1. MUST
A) Laying out a building
The player chooses a building card from his hand, takes the
building shown on this card and places it on the game board
so that it
• is horizontally or vertically adjacent to any building alrea-
dy placed (the building lot for the castle is also conside-
red as a building)
and / or
• is adjacent to any worker already placed (independent of
its colour).
The squares covered by the building must be vacant, that is
without any other building or worker on it.
Place a seal of the colour shown on your played building card
on the building. The seal indicates that the building is still
under construction and which family has placed the order.
The played building card is placed on a discard pile and is
thus out of game. Then the player adds a new card to their
hand so that they have four cards again. He either chooses
one of the three face-up cards or draws the top card from the
face-down stack. If the player has chosen one of the three
face-up cards, he immediately turns over a new card from the
stack in order to replenish the face-up cards.
Neutral workers:
On the game board, some squares show
tent camps in which players can recruit
migrant (= neutral) workers. These tent camps are not consi-
dered as buildings so they can be covered. If a player places
a building on the game board hereby covering a tent camp,
he may immediately take neutral workers from the pool –
one neutral worker per square showing a tent camp that he
has just covered. The neutral workers are placed behind the
player’s screen.
Example for laying out a building (see
illustrations below):
Green plays a building card that shows a
trade centre and the cloth merchants’ red
seal. Green takes a trade centre from the
pool and places it on the game board.
Illustration 1 
shows four of many possible places to lay out
the building: In possibility 1the trade centre is
adjacent to an already placed worker. In both
possibilities 2and 3it touches another buil-
ding. And in possibility 4it is even adjacent to
two buildings and one worker.
Illustration 2 
shows three possibilities how the building may
not be laid out. In possibility 5the trade centre
covers part of the already constructed monast-
ery. In the possibilities 6and 7it neither tou-
ches a worker nor a building (diagonally is not
enough). The player chooses possibility 4and
places the building accordingly on the game
board (ill. 3).
Illustration 3 
Since the trade centre covers a tent camp,
Green takes a neutral worker from the general
pool and places it behind his screen. Then, he
places a red seal (shown on the played building
card) on the trade centre. Afterwards, he draws
a new building card and finishes his turn.
=

B) Introducing workers
The player chooses any building on the game board. He pla-
ces any number of his own and / or neutral workers from
their pool behind the screen on vacant squares that are hori-
zontally or vertically adjacent to this building. Important: All
workers that a player introduces during their turn have to
touch one and the same building. Once the workers are pla-
ced on the board, they remain on the square on which they
have been introduced for the whole game. They are never
moved or removed.
Note: If a player places a worker on a tent camp, he does not get any
neutral worker.
An example for introducing a worker is shown at the bottom on the right.
A building is completed:
If a building is completely enclosed because of an action (eit-
her “A: Laying out a building” or “B: Introducing workers”), it
is completed. Consequently the ➔payout and the
➔continuation of the castle construction are triggered.
A building is completely enclosed if all horizontally and
vertically adjacent squares are occupied (either by workers,
by other buildings or by the border of the game board).
➔Payout: All players who have introduced workers next to
this building receive seals. For each of his own workers who
is (horizontally or vertically) adjacent to the enclosed buil-
ding, the respective player gets a seal of the colour of the
seal lying on the building. The player whose turn it is gets the
seal of the completed building in addition (as he has trigge-
red the payout). Players place their seals behind their screen.
Important: You do not get any seals for neutral workers!
Note: It is possible for several buildings to be completed at the same
time. In this case, each building is evaluated separately, so that one wor-
ker can earn several seals. Besides, it can happen that a building is pla-
ced so that it is immediately enclosed itself. In this case a normal payout
is triggered. If there are not enough normal seals, players can exchange 5
seals for a bigger seal with the value 5.
➔ Continuation of castle construction: Afterwards, the
player whose turn it is places one castle piece per newly
enclosed building on the building lot for the castle.
Note: The castle indicates the value of the family’s seals. The building lot
consists of 10 squares that show 2 seals of each family. At the beginning
of the game, each seal is thus worth 2 pieces of gold. In the course of the
game, castle pieces are placed on the 10 squares of the building lot –
next to each other and on top of each other. For this reason, the value of
the individual seals changes, since it depends on the number of family
seals that is actually visible on the 10 squares of the castle when looking
at the castle from a bird’s-eye view.
When placing a castle piece, players have to observe the fol-
lowing rules:
At first, the castle’s first floor has to be constructed, before
beginning the second floor. The player chooses any castle
piece from the building material for the first floor and places
it on any still vacant square of the building lot.
As soon as all 10 squares of the lowest floor are occupied in
this way, the remaining 2 pieces of the pool for the first floor
are added to the pool for the third floor (and placed on two
of the four vacant neutral squares on the border of the game
board). Afterwards, the second floor is constructed in the
same way with the pieces of the second pool. As soon as the
second floor is completed, the remaining 2 pieces are again
added to the pool for the third floor.
Attention: When the second floor is completed, the end of
the game has begun (see page 6).
Example for introducing workers 
and a following payout:
Violet chooses possibility 1 B) “Introducing workers”. He selects
the trade centre. Next to this trade centre, he may now place any
number of workers of his pool. He introduces two of his own wor-
kers (violet) and a neutral one. So both the trade centre and the
monastery are completely enclosed.
The payout is triggered:
Orange receives a red seal from the general pool, since one of his
workers participated in constructing the trade centre. Violet has two
workers next to the trade centre and thus gets two red seals from
the general pool. In addition, he receives the red seal lying on the
trade centre.
Yellow and Green both get two olive seals from the general pool for
the monastery’s construction. Violet receives an olive seal from the
general pool and again the seal that lies on the monastery.
Then Violet may place any two castle pieces from the pool for the
first floor on the building lot for the castle. He chooses the two black
pieces since he has already collected many black seals in previous
rounds.

2. CAN: Use the architect banner
At the end of each of their turns, players may decide if they
want to use one of their 4 architect banners. If they play it,
they get two workers of their colour from the general pool
for it (the banner is then out of game).
In addition, after having played their banner, players can exe-
cute an evaluation only for themselves:
The player can convert any number of their collected seals
(even from different families). They return them to the gene-
ral pool and receive gold in exchange. A seal’s value depends
on the current state of the castle. The number of the castle
squares of the corresponding colour visible from a bird’s-eye
view determines a seal’s value. The player may decide himself
which seals he wants to exchange and gets the correspon-
ding number of gold coins for it. So during each game, each
player can execute a maximum of 4 evaluations for himself in
order to get gold. In addition, there is one final evaluation at
the end of the game.
Example:
At the end of his turn, Green plays one of his architect banners and
gets 2 green workers from the general pool for it. Then he executes
an evaluation for himself: He exchanges 7 seals of the cloth mer-
chants (red) and 5 seals of the silversmiths (silver). From a bird’s-
eye view on the castle, 3 red and 4 silver squares are visible. Green
gets
7 red seals 
x 3 red squares 
= 21 gold coins
5 silver seals 
x 4 silver squares 
= 20 gold coins
41 gold coins
END OF THE GAME
—-—-—-—-=-—-—-—-—
The end of the game begins as soon as a player places the
last castle piece on the second floor of the castle. The remai-
ning two castle pieces are added to the pool for the third
floor. The player ends his turn as usual (he can for example
execute one more evaluation if he still has an architect ban-
ner).
Note: If a player has completed several buildings during their turn, so that
they may place several castle pieces, the two last pieces from the pool
for the second floor are always added to the pool for the third floor first. If
the player may then place further pieces, they take them from the pool
for the third floor (that now consists of 8 pieces) and places them in the
third floor.
At this stage of play, each player may still execute one last
turn. The player who has begun the end of the game will be
the last to play. If during this last round buildings are com-
pletely enclosed, players use castle pieces from the pool for
the third floor. After this last round the game is over. Each
player evaluates their remaining seals. This final evaluation is
executed as described above.
The player who has now the most gold 
wins the game.
If two or more players tie for first place,
these players can all delight in their 
wealth – there are several winners.
Tactical hints:
1) Try to cover the tent camps when laying out a building! The more neu-
tral workers you get, the easier you can enclose buildings in one go in
order to receive the additional seal.
2) Place your workers so that you trigger a payout! You will then get an
additional seal.
3) Do not play building cards whose seal’s colour is currently the most
valuable! Other players could complete the building and get many
seals.
4) Use the architect banners in time in order to get new workers! It could
make sense to use a banner without executing an evaluation. It is not
the number of evaluations, but the right moment that decides the
game.
5) Watch out for the end of the game! Workers that you have not yet intro-
duced are worth nothing at the end of the game.
6) Keep an eye on the other players’ seals! So you can reduce their value
by deliberately placing specific castle pieces.
7) Introduce your own workers so that they are adjacent to several buil-
dings! So they cash in on each payout.

Place the seven corresponding buildings and the building lot for the castle on the game board as shown on the 
illustration. While placing them on the game board simply take your bearings by the tent camps. Place a seal of the 
shown colour on each building.
To make it easier to learn the game, we recommend the following set-up for your first game:
Remove the following seven building cards from the game:
In addition to the material described in the chapter “Preparation”, each player gets neutral (beige) workers.
If there are 2 players, each player gets 3 neutral workers.
If there are 3 players, each player gets 2 neutral workers.
If there are 4 players, each player gets 1 neutral worker.
Prepare the remaining material as described in the chapter “Preparation”, and then continue reading there.