Rulebook
®

Welcome to Arkham!
The year is 1926, and it is the height of the Roaring 
Twenties. Flappers dance till dawn in smoke-filled 
speakeasies drinking alcohol supplied by rum runners 
and the mob. It’s a celebration to end all celebrations in 
the aftermath of the War to end all Wars.
Yet a dark shadow grows in the city of Arkham. Alien 
entities known as Ancient Ones lurk in the emptiness 
beyond space and time, writhing at the gates between 
worlds. These gates have begun to open and must be 
closed before the Ancient Ones make our world their 
ruined dominion.
Only a handful of investigators stand against the 
Arkham Horror. Will they prevail?
Arkham Horror is a game for 1 to 8 players (3 to 5 
recommended), playable in 2 to 4 hours. The game is set 
in the fictional town of Arkham, Massachusetts, made 
famous by H.P. Lovecraft in his writings about the 
Cthulhu Mythos.
Object of the Game
In Arkham Horror, a terrible creature from beyond time 
and space is waking, roused by the dimensional gates 
that are opening all over the city. The players must join 
forces to close all of the gates before this Ancient One 
awakens. If the Ancient One defeats the players, all of 
Arkham is doomed.
The players must work together as a team of investiga-
tors to close all of the dimensional gates, seal them per-
manently, or if that fails, defeat the Ancient One when it 
awakens from its slumber.
Game Overview
In Arkham Horror, the investigators explore the city, 
encountering places, people, and creatures both normal 
and mundane. Through these adventures, the investiga-
tors hope to gain the clues and resources needed to con-
front and ultimately thwart the Mythos threat.
Early in the game, investigators seek to avoid more pow-
erful monsters while moving around the city to gather 
weapons, spells, clues, and other items they will need.
Later, the investigators attempt to close a few gates and 
seal some of the most active gates.
Finally, once several gates have been sealed and the 
investigators have acquired valuable weapons, spells, 
clues, and allies, they make one last, desperate assault on 
the Mythos, attempting to close or seal the final gates. 
Either they succeed and the world survives, or they fail 
and the Ancient One awakens for the climactic battle.
Be warned: If the Ancient One awakens, the investiga-
tors are in for the fight of their lives! 
Game Components and 
Preparation
Enclosed in your Arkham Horror box, you will find the 
following game components:
1 Rule Book (this book)
1 Game Board
1 First Player Marker
5 Dice
16 Investigator Sheets
16 Investigator Markers
16 Plastic Investigator Stands
196 Investigator Status Tokens
	
56 Money Tokens
	
34 Sanity Tokens (10 “threes” and 24 “ones”)
	
34 Stamina Tokens (10 “threes” and 24 “ones”)
	
48 Clue Tokens
	
24 Skill Sliders
189 Investigator Cards
	
44 Common Items
	
39 Unique Items
	
40 Spells
	
20 Skills
	
11 Allies
	
35 Special Cards
	
	 8 Retainers
	
	 8 Silver Twilight Lodge Memberships
	
	 8 Bank Loans
	
	 8 Blessing/Curse Cards
	
	 3 Deputy Cards
8 Ancient One Sheets
20 Doom Tokens
179 Ancient One Cards
	
63 Location Cards
	
67 Mythos Cards
	
49 Gate Cards
60 Monster Markers
16 Gate Markers
3 Activity Markers
3 Explored Markers
1 Terror Track Marker
6 Closed Markers
Before you play your first game of Arkham Horror, 
carefully punch out the cardboard pieces so that they do 
not tear. Next, slide the 16 plastic stands onto the bases 
of the 16 investigator markers. Be sure to keep all com-
ponents out of the reach of small children and animals.
Component Overview
The following is an introductory summary of the various 
components included in Arkham Horror. This summary 
should help you identify the components and understand 
the ways they are used as you read through these rules.
Game Board
The game board depicts the city of Arkham and the 
“Other Worlds” to which investigators may travel during 
the game. See “Game Board Breakdown,” page 21, for a 
complete discussion of the game board.
First Player Marker
This marker is given to the player 
who acts first in a turn. The marker is 
passed to the left at the start of each 
new turn.
Dice
Players roll the dice to make skill checks, fight 
battles, and determine other random outcomes.

Investigator 
Sheets and 
Markers
Each player receives one investiga-
tor sheet that describes the abilities, 
skills, and starting equipment of the 
investigator he controls. Each play-
er also receives one investigator 
marker used to indicate his investi-
gator’s current position on the 
board. See “Investigator Sheet 
Breakdown,” page 21, for a full 
description of investigator sheets.
Investigator Status Tokens
These tokens are used to track an investigator’s current 
Skills, Sanity, Stamina, Money, and Clues.
• Skill sliders track the investigator’s current 
skill levels. Investigators make skill checks 
throughout the game in the course of their 
adventures.
• Sanity tokens represent an investigator’s 
current level of mental health.
• Stamina tokens represent an investigator’s 
current level of physical health.
• Clue tokens represent vital insights and 
information an investigator has accumulated 
either before or during the game. 
Investigators can spend Clue tokens to gain 
bonuses on skill checks or to permanently 
seal gates.
• Money tokens represent the investigator’s 
current wealth. They are spent to purchase 
equipment, pay fines, etc.
Investigator Cards
The small cards included in Arkham Horror are called 
investigator cards. They represent useful allies the inves-
tigators may meet and items they may acquire during the 
course of the game. There are six types of investigator 
cards:
Common Items are ordinary but useful items that can 
aid an investigator.
Unique Items are unusual, sometimes bizarre, and pos-
sibly magical items that can greatly assist an investiga-
tor. Elder signs, which can permanently seal gates, are 
found in this deck.
Skill cards represent an investigator’s abilities. Skill 
cards typically either give a bonus to a certain skill or 
allow you to roll the dice again when you fail a certain 
kind of dice roll. Skill cards are rare and expensive to 
acquire.
Spells are magical rituals that an investigator can per-
form using the Lore skill.
Allies are people that offer to assist the investigators in 
their adventures. Allies are the most powerful investiga-
tor cards and can be found either at Ma’s Boarding 
House (a location on the game board) or through 
encounters at some of the more dangerous and unstable 
locations in Arkham.
Special cards represent unique privileges or obligations. 
These include Retainers, Silver Twilight Memberships, 
Bank Loans, Blessings, Curses, and Deputy of Arkham 
cards. Special cards have a wide variety of effects.
Ancient One Sheets
At the beginning of every 
game of Arkham Horror, the 
players randomly determine 
which Ancient One will 
threaten the city. An Ancient 
One sheet lists the powers, 
combat statistics, and wor-
shippers associated with each 
of these alien beings. See 
“Ancient One Sheet 
Breakdown,” page 19, for 
full details.
Doom Tokens
Doom tokens are 
placed on the doom 
track on the Ancient 
One sheet as new 
gates open in 
Arkham. When the 
doom track is filled 
up with doom tokens, 
the Ancient One awakens!
On the back of each doom token is an elder sign icon. 
When an investigator successfully plays an elder sign to 
permanently seal a gate, a doom token is removed from 
the Ancient One’s doom track, flipped over to its elder 
sign side, and placed on the sealed location. Sealing a 
gate using Clue tokens does not reduce the number of 
doom tokens on the Ancient One’s doom track in this 
manner. For more information on sealing gates with 
both elder signs and Clue tokens, see page 17.
Ancient One Cards
The larger cards included with Arkham Horror are called 
Ancient One cards. These represent events that take place 
within Arkham or the Other Worlds. These events can 
include confrontations with monsters, beneficial encoun-
ters, etc. There are three types of Ancient One cards: 
Location cards, Gate cards, and Mythos cards.
Location cards represent the encounters that take place at 
the various locations in Arkham. Each of the nine neigh-
borhoods on the game board has a deck of seven cards 
dedicated to it, and each card has one encounter for each 
of the locations in that neighborhood. For more informa-
tion on locations and neighborhoods, see page 21.
Gate cards represent the encounters that take place in 
the Other Worlds. Unlike the Location cards, which are 
divided into separate decks for each neighborhood, the 
Gate cards are all shuffled together into one deck. For 
more information on Other Worlds, see pages 8–9, 21.
Mythos cards depict major events in Arkham. One is 
drawn each turn during the Mythos Phase. When a 
Mythos card is drawn, it has several effects. It identifies 
a location where a gate opens, it determines monster 
movement in Arkham, and it presents an event that may 
affect the investigators. Most Mythos cards also list a 
location where a Clue token appears.
Common 
Item
Unique 
Item
Skill
Spell
Ally
Doom Token
Location
Gate
Mythos
Elder Sign Token
Silver Twilight 
Membership
Bank 
Loan
Retainer
Deputy of 
Arkham
Blessing & 
Curse

Monster Markers
Monster markers represent the monsters roaming the 
streets of Arkham. Each monster has two sides: a move-
ment side and a combat side. Leave the monster’s move-
ment side face up while it wanders around the board. 
When an investigator battles a monster, flip the monster 
marker to its combat side. Players may look at either 
side of any monster marker at any time. See “Monster 
Marker Breakdown,” page 21, for a full description.
Gate Markers
These markers are placed on the board to indicate loca-
tions where gates to the Other Worlds have opened. 
Each gate marker identifies the Other World it leads to 
and includes a modifier to the dice rolls of investigators 
attempting to close the gate.
Activity and Explored Markers
Activity markers indicate areas on the board where 
unusual events are taking place. An explored marker is 
placed underneath an investigator’s marker after he has 
braved the Other World beyond a gate and returned.
Terror Marker
This marker is placed on the terror 
track to indicate the mental state and 
morale of the townsfolk of Arkham. As 
the terror level increases, stores close 
and people leave town, eventually 
allowing the monsters to overrun the 
town completely!
Closed Markers
These markers are placed on locations 
that have closed, whether because of 
the terror level or specific events that 
have occurred in the game. Neither 
investigators nor monsters can enter 
closed locations.
Activity Marker
Explored Marker
Game Setup
Place the Mythos-related items 
on one end of the board. These 
should include:
9 Location Decks 
Gate Deck 
Mythos Deck 
Ancient One Sheet and Doom 
Tokens 
Gate Markers 
Monster Markers (in an 
opaque container) 
Clue Tokens 
Activity, Closed, and Explored 
Markers
Place the Investigator-related 
items on one end of the board. 
This should include:
Ally, Common Item, Unique 
Item, Spell, and Skill Decks 
Special Investigator Card 
Decks 
Sanity and Stamina Token 
Bank 
Money Token Bank
Give the first player marker to 
the player you’ve chosen to go 
first. It is passed to the left at 
the end of every turn.
Each player takes his investigator sheet and marker, then 
gains Stamina and Sanity tokens equal to his maximum 
Stamina and Sanity, respectively. In addition, each player 
receives his character’s possessions. Finally, each player 
places his investigator marker on the game board on his 
character’s home location.
Place one Clue token on each of 
the 11 unstable locations on the 
board (marked by a red diamond 
above the location).
Movement Side
Combat Side

Game Setup
Follow the steps below to prepare for a game of 
Arkham Horror.
1. Prepare Playing Area
Unfold the board and place it in the center of the play-
ing area. Make sure there is ample space around the 
edges of the board to place the investigator sheets and 
card decks. Place the various tokens and the dice near 
the board, as shown in the setup diagram on page 4. 
Make sure to place the terror track marker on the “0” 
space on the terror track.
2. Place Initial Clues
Place one Clue token on each location on the board that 
has a red diamond above it. These locations are unstable 
and represent the places where dimensional gates can 
open and monsters can appear. Locations are identified 
by circular illustrations overlaying the Arkham portion 
of the game board (for example, Silver Twilight Lodge 
and Ma’s Boarding House).
3. Choose First Player
Select one player at random to be the first player. Give 
the first player marker to that player. 
4. Determine Investigators
The first player shuffles the 16 investigator sheets. Then, 
without looking, he randomly deals out one investigator 
sheet in front of each player, including himself.
Alternately, the players may agree to choose their inves-
tigators, starting with the first player and continuing 
clockwise until every player has selected an investigator.
5. Reveal Ancient One
The first player shuffles the eight Ancient One sheets. 
Then, without looking, he selects one at random and 
places it face up near the board. This is the Ancient One 
that is threatening Arkham for this game. If the Ancient 
One’s ability lists any actions that take place at the start 
of the game, such as Nyarlathotep’s “Thousand Masks” 
ability, they are resolved now.
Alternatively, the players may choose which Ancient 
One they face. This is often helpful if there are time 
constraints or other considerations involved. (Yig makes 
for a shorter game, for instance, while Cthulhu makes 
for a particularly challenging game.)
6. Separate Decks
Separate the various investigator and Ancient One cards 
into their respective decks and place them near the board 
as shown in the setup diagram.
7. Receive Fixed Possessions
On each investigator sheet, certain items may be listed as 
fixed possessions. Each player, beginning with the first 
player and continuing clockwise, now receives the items 
listed on his investigator sheet in the “Fixed Possessions” 
area. The first player should locate the appropriate cards 
in the investigator decks and pass them out to the play-
ers, as noted on their investigator sheets.
8. Shuffle Investigator Decks
The players shuffle the Common Item, Unique Item, 
Spell, and Skill decks, then return them face down to their 
places next to the board. Whenever players draw cards, 
they draw them randomly from the tops of these decks.
9. Receive Random Possessions
Each investigator sheet may indicate that the investiga-
tor receives one or more random possessions. Each play-
er, beginning with the first player and continuing clock-
wise, draws the indicated number of cards from the 
appropriate decks, as listed on his investigator sheet in 
the “Random Possessions” area.
Note: Abilities that affect drawing cards from the card 
decks, such as Monterey Jack’s Archaeology ability, do 
work when drawing random possessions at the start of 
the game.
10. Finish Investigator Setup
Each player now receives a number of Sanity tokens 
equal to his investigator’s Sanity value and a number of 
Stamina tokens equal to his investigator’s Stamina 
value. These values are listed on each investigator sheet. 
Each player should place these tokens near the appropri-
ate area on his sheet.
Each player also receives three skill sliders and places 
one skill slider on each of his three skill tracks. Each 
skill slider may be placed on any one of the four “stops” 
of each skill track. See “Adjusting Skills” on page 6 for 
more information on skill sliders and skill tracks.
11. Create Monster Cup
Place the monster markers in an opaque container and 
randomize them. A coffee cup, plastic container, or cloth 
bag works well for this purpose. Throughout these rules, 
we’ll refer to this container as the monster cup. When a 
monster appears or otherwise enters play, the first player 
draws a monster marker randomly from the monster cup 
and places it on the game board as instructed in these 
rules or in the text of a specific card.
Exception: Do not place the five “Mask” monsters in the 
container unless Nyarlathotep is the Ancient One. If any 
other Ancient One has been revealed, remove the Mask 
monsters from the game (simply return the markers to the 
box). Mask monsters are identified by the word “Mask” 
printed on the combat side of their markers.
12. Shuffle Ancient One 
Decks and Gate Markers
The players now shuffle the Gate and Mythos decks, and 
then return them to their places next to the board. Next, 
they shuffle the 16 Gate markers and place them face 
down in a stack next to the board.
13. Place Investigator Markers
Each player now takes the investigator marker depicting 
his investigator and places the marker on the game board 
location indicated on his investigator sheet in the 
“Home” area. The other investigator sheets and markers, 
as well as the unused Ancient One sheets, may now be 
removed from the game.
14. Draw and Resolve
Mythos Card
Finally, the first player draws the top card of the Mythos 
deck and resolves it as described in the Mythos Phase 
section of the rules. If a Rumor is drawn, discard it and 
draw again until you draw a Mythos card that isn’t a 
Rumor. The Mythos card will indicate an unstable loca-
tion where a gate and monster appear. Remember, unsta-
ble locations are identified by red diamonds on the game 
board. For more information on resolving the Mythos 
Phase, see page 9.
Important: Remember to place a doom token on the 
Ancient One’s doom track after the first gate opens.
After the Mythos card has been completely resolved, the 
first turn begins, starting with the first player.
The Game Turn
A turn in Arkham Horror is divided into five phases. 
During each phase, every player, starting with the 
first player and continuing clockwise, performs the 
actions that take place during that phase. Once all 
players have completed a phase, the next phase begins. 
At the end of the last phase in each turn, the first player 
marker is passed to the player on the left and a new turn 
begins.
The phases of each turn are:
Phase III: Arkham Encounters
Phase IV: Other World Encounters
During each phase, every player, starting with the 
first player and continuing clockwise, performs the 
actions that take place during that phase.

During the Upkeep Phase, each player takes the follow-
ing actions, in order.
1. Refresh Exhausted Cards
Some cards exhaust themselves when used, which 
means that they are turned face down for the remainder 
of the turn. At the start of the Upkeep Phase, each player 
refreshes those cards by turning them face up. Simply 
remember that you can use face-up cards and that you 
cannot use face-down cards until you turn them face up 
again during the next Upkeep Phase.
Example: Richard (playing Harvey Walters) cast his 
Wither spell last turn, forcing him to exhaust the card by 
turning it face down. During the Upkeep Phase, Richard 
turns the Wither spell face up once more. The spell is 
now ready for him to cast again.
2. Perform Upkeep Actions
After refreshing his exhausted cards, each player must 
review his investigator’s cards to see if any of them have 
an Upkeep action. Each player must perform all Upkeep 
actions listed on his investigator’s cards every turn. 
Upkeep actions may be taken in any order the player 
wishes. Bless, Curse, Bank Loan, and Retainer cards do 
not require an upkeep roll during the first Upkeep Phase 
after an investigator acquires them.
Example: Looking over his cards, Richard finds that he 
has a Retainer card, which requires an Upkeep action. 
First, Richard receives $2 for the Retainer. He takes two 
money tokens from the pile of money tokens in the play 
area. Richard must then roll a die to see if he keeps or 
loses the Retainer. Richard is fortunate and keeps the 
Retainer card for another turn. 
3. Adjust Skills
Finally, each player may adjust his investigator’s skills 
using the three skill sliders he placed on his investigator 
sheet during game setup. This process, as well as a gen-
eral description of how skill sliders work, is explained in 
the “Adjusting Skills” diagram.
Exception: During game setup, players may set their 
three skill sliders on any of the four stops on their three 
skill tracks. This initial setup does not adhere to the nor-
mal rules that restrict the number of stops a slider may 
be moved each turn. 
During the Movement Phase, each player takes one of 
the following two movement actions, depending on 
whether his investigator is in Arkham or an Other World 
(see “Game Board Breakdown,” page 21):
Arkham movement
or
Other Worlds movement
The two types of investigator movement are described 
below.
Arkham Movement
If the player’s investigator is located in Arkham (i.e., his 
investigator marker is in the town area of the game 
board), he receives movement points equal to his Speed 
value, as found on his investigator sheet. A player may 
spend one movement point to move his investigator 
marker from one board area to another, so long as the 
two areas are connected by a yellow line on the game 
board. One movement point allows an investigator to 
move from a location to a street area, from one street 
area to another, or from a street area to a location.
Locations are indicated by circular illustrations on the 
Arkham portion of the game board. Street areas are rep-
resented by rectangular boxes on the game board, one 
for each neighborhood in Arkham (for example, 
Miskatonic U. and Rivertown).
Locations and street areas that contain monster markers 
may affect an investigator’s movement. Each time an 
investigator attempts to leave a location or street area 
occupied by one or more monster markers, the investiga-
tor must either fight or evade each of the monsters there 
(see “Evading Monsters” and “Combat,” pages 14-16, for 
more information). Likewise, if an investigator ends his 
Adjusting Skills
During Upkeep, you may adjust your charac-
ter’s skills in order to react to the investiga-
tor’s situation. Focus represents your charac-
ter’s ability to split his attention between the 
different tasks at hand. It determines the total 
number of “stops” you may adjust your skills 
each turn.
Example 1: Above, Amanda has a focus of 3. 
This allows her to move her skill sliders a 
total of 3 stops each turn. This turn, she 
chooses to move her Speed/Sneak slider to the 
right by 2 stops. Then, having 1 point of focus 
remaining, she moves her Lore/Luck slider 1 
stop to the left.
Example 2: This turn, Amanda decides to use 
all of her focus to move her Fight/Will slider 
3 stops to the right. She has no focus left to 
move any of her other skill sliders, so they 
remain where they were last turn.
Be careful how you adjust your skills, particu-
larly if your character’s focus is low. If you 
make your skills too one-sided, you can be 
caught off-guard at a crucial moment without 
the ability to react.

Returning to Arkham
Example: Amanda Sharpe is returning to 
Arkham from The Dreamlands. She can 
choose to move to either location that con-
tains an open gate to The Dreamlands. After 
she does so, an explored marker is placed 
under her investigator marker.
Amanda Sharpe starts her turn in the Graveyard, in Rivertown. Her Speed is 
currently 4, which gives her 4 movement points for the turn. She decides that she 
wants to move to Administration, so her move breaks down like this:
1) 1 movement point to move from the Graveyard to the street area of Rivertown.
2) 1 movement point to move from the street area of Rivertown to the street area of 
French Hill.
3) 1 movement point to move from the street area of French Hill to the street area of 
Miskatonic U.
4) 1 movement point to move from the street area of Miskatonic U. to Administration.
Arkham Movement
Other World Movement
Example: Amanda Sharpe is in the first area 
of The Dreamlands. During her movement, she 
moves to the second area of The Dreamlands. 
During her movement next turn, she returns to 
Arkham, moving to any location with an open 
gate to The Dreamlands and placing an 
explored marker underneath her investigator 
marker.

movement in a location or street area occupied by one or 
more monsters, he must fight or evade each such monster.
If the investigator fails to evade a monster, the monster 
immediately deals its combat damage to him (see 
“Combat,” page 14) and he immediately enters combat 
with it. 
Once an investigator begins combat with a monster for 
any reason, his movement is over. Regardless of whether 
or not he wins the battle, the investigator loses the rest 
of his movement points and must remain where he is.
Picking Up Clues
Any time an investigator ends his movement in a loca-
tion that contains Clue tokens, he may immediately take 
any or all of those Clue tokens. The investigator may not 
take any Clue tokens if he merely moves through the 
location and then continues his movement: He must end 
his movement in the location containing the Clue tokens.
Other World Movement
Other Worlds are represented by the large circular spaces 
along the edge of the game board. These spaces repre-
sent bizarre locales, strange dimensions, and alternate 
worlds that figure prominently in the Mythos. Players 
typically enter these worlds by exploring gates (see 
“Gate,” page 9).
Note that each circular space representing an Other 
World is bisected by a prominent line: The areas to the 
left and right of this line are the two areas of the Other 
World.
If an investigator is in an Other World at the beginning of 
the Movement Phase, he receives no movement points. 
Instead, his movement depends on whether he is in the 
first (left) or second (right) area of the Other World.
• If the investigator is in the first area of the Other 
World, he moves to the second area. 
• If the investigator is in the second area of the Other 
World, he returns to Arkham. The player must choose a 
location that contains a gate to the Other World he is leav-
ing. After choosing such a location, he places his investi-
gator marker there. Then he places an “explored” marker 
underneath his investigator to show that he has explored 
the gate. This marker remains in play as long as the inves-
tigator remains at the location. If there is no open gate 
leading to the Other World the investigator is in, the 
investigator is lost in time and space (see page 17).
Delayed Investigators
During the game, certain effects can cause an investiga-
tor to become delayed. When this occurs, place the 
investigator marker on its side, indicating the delay. 
Delayed investigators receive no movement points and 
do not move during the Movement Phase. Instead, dur-
ing the investigator’s Movement Phase, the player stands 
the investigator marker back up to show that the investi-
gator is no longer delayed. On the following turn, the 
investigator will be able to move once again as normal.
Phase III: Arkham 
Encounters
During the Arkham Encounters Phase, each player 
whose investigator is in a location (not a street area or 
Other World area) must take one of the following 
actions. The action the investigator must take depends 
on whether his location contains an open gate or not.
1. No Gate
If the location has no gate, the investigator has an 
encounter at the location. The player shuffles the loca-
tion deck corresponding to the neighborhood his investi-
gator is in and draws a card from the deck. The player 
then finds the entry for his investigator’s location, reads 
the entry aloud, and performs any actions indicated by 
the card text. Note that the card may indicate that “a 
monster appears,” in which case the investigator must 
either evade the monster (see “Evading Monsters,” page 
14) or fight it (see “Combat,” pages 14-16). Once the 
player has resolved any actions indicated by the card, he 
returns the card to the location deck.
Monsters and gates cannot appear in sealed locations, 
even if this is directed by the text of a card.
Example: Amanda Sharpe is at the City of 
the Great Race, which has a yellow and a 
green encounter symbol. She begins draw-
ing cards from the gate deck. The first card 
is red, so it cannot be encountered at the 
City of the Great Race. The player dis-
cards it and draws again. She draws a 
blue card this time and again discards it. 
Finally, she draws a green card and exam-
ines it to see if it has a specific City of the 
Great Race encounter. It does not, so she 
looks at the Other encounter and follows 
its instructions.
Other World Encounter
Location Encounter 
(No Gate)
Example: Amanda Sharpe is at the 
Historical Society in Southside, so she 
draws a card at random from the 
Southside location deck and looks at 
the entry for the Historical Society. 
According to the card, a janitor offers 
her a ride to the Woods. If she accepts, 
she moves to the Woods and has anoth-
er encounter there.
Location Encounter 
(With Gate)
Example: Amanda Sharpe is at Black 
Cave, but there is a gate leading to the 
Dreamlands there. Since she doesn’t 
have an explored marker under her, she 
is drawn through the gate to the first 
area of the Dreamlands.

Monsters that appear as the result of a location or gate 
encounter never remain on the board after the encounter 
is resolved. If an investigator evades such a monster, 
return it to the monster cup (see “Monsters in 
Encounters,” page 22).
2. Gate
If the location has a gate, the investigator is drawn 
through the gate. He moves to the first area (the left 
area) of the Other World indicated on the gate marker.
Exception: Once an investigator has entered a gate and 
returned to Arkham, the player places an explored mark-
er underneath his investigator marker. While he remains 
in the gate’s location, he is no longer drawn through the 
gate, but may instead try to close or seal the gate (see 
“Closing and Sealing Gates,” pages 17-18). If the inves-
tigator leaves the location before the gate is closed or 
sealed, discard the explored marker. If the investigator 
returns to the location later in the game, he will again be 
drawn through the gate. He must resolve the Other 
World Encounters Phase again before he can return to 
the location and attempt to close or seal the gate.
Important: If an investigator is drawn through a gate 
that appears as a result of an encounter (such as “A gate 
appears!” or “A gate and a monster appear!”), then he is 
delayed, just as if he had been drawn through a gate in 
the Mythos Phase.
Phase IV: Other World 
Encounters
During the Other World Encounters Phase, investigators 
in Other World spaces have encounters there. The Other 
World spaces on the board are marked with circular 
icons of different colors. These colored circles are called 
encounter symbols. When an investigator has an Other 
World encounter, the player draws cards from the gate 
deck, one at a time, until he draws a card whose color 
matches one of these encounter symbols. Gate cards that 
do not match a color of the encounter symbols are 
placed face down on the bottom of the gate deck.
Once the player has drawn a gate card that matches an 
encounter symbol’s color, he examines it to see if there is 
a specific encounter for the Other World his investigator 
is currently in. If a specific encounter is listed, the player 
reads that entry aloud and performs any actions indicated 
by the card text. If there is no specific encounter listed, 
the player reads the “Other” entry aloud and performs 
any actions indicated by the card text.
The card text of an Other World encounter may result in a 
monster appearing, in which case the investigator must 
either evade the monster (see “Evading Monsters,” page 14) 
or fight it (see “Combat,” pages 14-16). Once the encounter 
is resolved, the player then discards the card face down to 
the bottom of the gate deck.
Monsters that appear as the result of location or gate 
encounters never remain on the board after the encoun-
ter is resolved. If an investigator evades such a monster, 
return it to the monster cup (see “Monsters in 
Encounters,” page 22).
During the Mythos Phase, the first player draws a 
Mythos card and performs the following actions:
1. Open Gate and Spawn Monster
2. Place Clue Token
4. Activate Mythos Ability
Each of these actions is performed as follows.
1. Open Gate and Spawn Monster
The first player begins by looking at the lower-left corner 
of the Mythos card he has drawn to see where the dimen-
sional forces are assaulting Arkham this turn. One of three 
things happens, depending on whether there is an open 
gate, an elder sign marker, or neither at that location.
A. Location Has Elder Sign
If an elder sign token has been placed at the location, 
nothing happens. No gate opens and no monster appears. 
The elder sign has permanently sealed the gate at this 
location, and no new gates can open here.
B. Location Has Open Gate
If there is already an open gate at the location, a monster 
emerges from every open gate currently on the board.
This is called a monster surge. When a monster surge 
occurs, the number of monsters drawn and placed is equal 
to the number of open gates or the number of players, 
whichever is greater. The first player draws monster 
markers from the cup at random and places them on 
each location with an open gate. When placing monsters, 
they should be divided as evenly as possible among the 
open gates, with no gate having more monsters placed on 
it than the gate where the monster surge occurred this 
turn. If there are more monsters to be placed than 
allowed by the monster limit (see “Monster Limits and 
the Outskirts,” page 18), the players should decide 
where monsters will be placed. The players must make 
this decision before monsters have been drawn from the 
cup. If the players cannot agree where the monsters are 
to be placed, the first player decides the placement.
Example: There are 3 open gates (at the Black Cave, 
Science Building, and Unvisited Isle), 7 players, and no 
monsters in play when a Mythos card is drawn that 
opens a gate at the Black Cave. This causes a monster 
surge: 7 monsters are drawn from the cup and placed on 
the open gates. They must be distributed as evenly as 
possible, so each of the 3 gates gets 2 monsters placed 
on it, and the 7th monster is placed on the Black Cave, 
where the monster surge occurred. The Black Cave now 
has 3 monsters, while the other 2 open gates each have 
2 monsters on them.
C. No Elder Sign or Gate
If there is neither an open gate nor an elder sign marker 
at the location, a new gate opens and a monster emerges 
from it. This means that the following things happen, in 
order:
1. The Doom Track Advances
The first player places a doom token with the eye sym-
bol face up in the first available space on the Ancient 
One’s doom track. If the marker is placed in the last 
available space on the doom track, the Ancient One has 
awakened and the end of the game has begun (see “The 
Ancient One Awakens!,” page 20). If the Ancient One 
awakens, you do not need to complete the rest of the 
Mythos Phase: Proceed immediately to the final battle.
Note that it is also possible for the Ancient One to awak-
en because there are too many gates open in Arkham at 
once (see “The Ancient One Awakens!,” page 20). 
2. A Gate Opens
The first player draws a gate marker from the stack of 
gate markers near the board and places it face up on the 
location. Discard any Clue tokens that were on the loca-
tion: The investigators have missed their opportunity to 
follow up on those leads.
3. A Monster Appears
The first player draws a monster marker from the cup at 
random and places it on the location. If this would bring 
the number of monsters over the monster limit, the first 
1. Open Gate and 
 Spawn Monster
2. Place Clue 
 Token
4. Activate Card’s 
 Special Ability.
A. Each Mythos card has a trait just below its title that tells you 
what its subtype is. Mythos cards are either Headlines, 
Environments, or Rumors. Each subtype behaves slightly 
differently, and all are explained in detail in these rules.
Resolving a Mythos Card

player places the monster in the Outskirts instead (see 
“Monster Limits and the Outskirts,” page 18). 
Exception: If there are five or more investigators play-
ing, then draw and place two monsters instead of one.
Important: Unlike investigators, monsters are never 
drawn through gates.
Example: Wade is the first player and draws the Mythos 
card shown in an earlier example. The lower-left corner 
of the card shows Black Cave, which has neither an 
open gate nor an elder sign marker. First, Wade adds a 
doom token to the Ancient One’s doom track. There are 
still open spaces on the track, so Wade draws the top 
gate marker from the stack and places it on top of Black 
Cave. The revealed gate is one that leads to Yuggoth. 
Finally, Wade draws a monster from the cup (a Dark 
Young) and places it on Black Cave as well.
Gates Opening On Investigators
If a gate opens at a location that contains an investigator, 
he is immediately drawn through the gate to the first 
area of the corresponding Other World. As a result of the 
sudden disorientation caused by the gate swallowing 
him, the investigator is delayed. Place his investigator 
marker on its side. The investigator will not move dur-
ing the next Movement Phase (see “Delayed 
Investigators,” page 16).
2. Place Clue Token
Most Mythos cards indicate a location where a Clue 
token appears. Place a Clue token on the indicated loca-
tion unless there is an open gate there. If one or more 
investigators are at that location, one of them (they 
should decide among themselves) may immediately take 
that Clue token. If the players cannot agree on who gets 
the Clue token, the first player decides.
Although monsters start out in locations as they emerge 
from gates, they soon leave those locations to roam the 
streets of Arkham. In order to determine monster move-
ment, the first player looks at the lower-right corner of 
the Mythos card he has drawn for the turn. This area 
describes which monsters move during the turn as well 
as the direction they move on the board.
Each Mythos card has two movement areas on it, repre-
sented by black and white boxes. Each location and 
street area on the board likewise features a black or 
white arrow (sometimes both, see below). 
Each movement box on a Mythos card also has one or 
more dimension symbols printed in it. Each monster 
marker likewise features such a dimension symbol on its 
movement side.
Monster Movement
Example 1: The Mythos card at 
the left is drawn. Monsters show-
ing the symbols in the white area 
(slash, triangle, and star) move, 
following the white arrows. 
Monsters showing the symbols in 
the black area (hexagon) also 
move, following the black arrows. 
Specifically, in this example:
1. The Gug, with its slash symbol, 
follows the black and white arrow 
leading out of its current location.
B. The Dark Young does not move. 
Although it has a hexagon symbol, 
its border is yellow, indicating that 
it is a stationary monster that never 
moves.
Example 2: The Mythos card above is drawn. Monsters showing the symbols in the white area 
(square and diamond) move, following the white arrows. Monsters showing the symbols in the 
black area (circle) also move, following the black arrows. Specifically, in this example:
1. The Dimensional Shambler, with its square symbol, follows the white arrow leading out of its 
current location. Then, because it has a red border, signifying that it is fast, it moves one more 
time (2), again following the white arrow.
A. The Dhole does not move. Although it has a circle symbol, it is sharing a location with 
Amanda Sharpe, so it remains there instead of moving away from her.

Monsters currently on the board whose dimension sym-
bols are listed in either movement box on the Mythos card 
move to a connected location or street area, as follows:
• If the monster is listed in the white movement box, it 
follows the white arrow leading out of its current area.
• If the monster is listed in the black movement box, it 
follows the black arrow leading out of its current area.
Important: The arrows leading out of some locations 
are black on one side and white on the other. These 
arrows count as both a black arrow and a white arrow, 
so monsters listed in either the black or the white move-
ment box of the Mythos card follow that arrow.
Monster Movement and Investigators
A monster that already shares a location or street area 
with one or more investigators does not move and 
remains in place. Certain monsters move several times 
(see the description of “Fast” monsters below); when 
such a monster enters an area that contains one or more 
investigators, it must immediately stop moving. No 
encounter with the monster takes place during this 
phase, but the investigators will be forced to evade or 
fight the monster during the Movement Phase.
Example: A Star Spawn moves into Uptown, where Joe 
Diamond and Ashcan Pete are currently located. During 
their next Movement Phase, one or possibly both of 
these investigators will need to deal with the Star 
Spawn.
Monster Movement Specialties
Most monsters move as described above, but some mon-
sters have special movement abilities that follow special 
rules. There are five different types of monster move-
ment in Arkham Horror. These are indicated by the 
colored borders on the movement side of the monster 
markers:
Normal (Black Border): Normal monsters move as 
described above.
Stationary (Yellow Border): Stationary monsters never 
move. They always remain at the location where they 
entered play.
Fast (Red Border): Fast monsters move twice, follow-
ing the appropriate arrows for both steps of their move-
ment. Fast monsters stop moving immediately if they 
encounter an investigator.
Unique (Green Border): Monsters with unique move-
ment (such as the Hound of Tindalos) have special 
movement abilities listed on the combat side of their 
monster markers. Turn such a monster marker over and 
follow the instructions there.
Flying (Blue Border): Flying monsters generally move 
directly towards the nearest investigator in a street area, 
or move to the “Sky” holding area if they can’t reach any 
investigators this turn. Flying monsters are explained in 
more detail in the “Flying Monsters”diagram.
Flying Monsters
Flying monsters are 
indicated by a blue 
border. When a flying 
monster moves during 
the Mythos Phase, it 
obeys the following 
rules:
A) If the flying monster is in a location or 
street area with one or more investigators, it 
stays where it is.
B) If the flying monster is in a location or 
street area with no investigators and there 
are one or more investigators in a connect-
ed street area, it moves into that street area. 
If there is more than one connected street 
area containing investigators, it moves 
towards the investigator in those street 
areas with the lowest current Sneak skill 
(including any relevant equipment and 
skills; if there is a tie, the first player 
chooses which investigator the monster 
moves towards).
C) If the flying monster is in a street area 
with no investigators and there are no 
investigators in a connected street area, it 
moves to the Sky (see The Sky, below).
The Sky
The Sky is a holding area considered to be 
a street area that is connected to every 
street area in Arkham. Flying monsters in 
the Sky can swoop down on investigators 
anywhere in the streets of Arkham. Note 
that monsters in the Sky count against 
the monster limit (see “Monster Limits 
and the Outskirts,” page 18).

4. Activate Mythos Ability
Finally, the first player looks at the special text on the 
Mythos card, examining the trait listed at the top of the 
card. The various traits indicate different types of 
Mythos cards, and they are resolved in different ways as 
described below.
Headline: The first player immediately resolves the 
special text of a Headline Mythos card. He then dis-
cards the Mythos card face down to the bottom of the 
Mythos deck.
Environment: The special text of an Environment 
Mythos card remains in play for several turns, possibly 
even until the end of the game. The first player places 
the card face up next to the game board, discarding any 
previous Environment Mythos card face down to the 
bottom of the Mythos deck. This means that only one 
Environment Mythos card can be in play at a time.
Rumor: The special text of a Rumor Mythos card 
remains in effect until either the Pass or Fail condition 
on the card is met, at which point the card is resolved 
and is discarded face down to the bottom of the Mythos 
deck.
Only one Rumor can be in play at once. If there is 
already a Rumor Mythos card in play, ignore the special 
text of the newly drawn Rumor and discard it face down 
to the bottom of the Mythos deck after resolving its 
other effects for the turn (such as gate opening and mon-
ster movement). 
Other Effects: Additionally, the Mythos card may call 
for one or more “activity” or “closed” markers to be 
placed on specific locations. Simply place the respective 
markers on the locations indicated by the card. If the 
card leaves play, remove the markers from the locations 
as well.
Turn End
Once the first player has resolved all steps of the Mythos 
Phase, the first player marker is passed to the left. 
The turn is now over and a new one begins with the 
Upkeep Phase. Play continues in this way until the end 
Ending the Game
The game ends in one of two ways: The investigators 
either overcome the Mythos threat, or they are defeated 
by it.
Victory
The investigators win the game in any of the following 
three ways:
A. Close the Gates
To satisfy this victory condition, the players must 
accomplish two objectives:
• An investigator must close the last gate on the board, 
such that there are currently no open gates.
• When the last gate is closed, the players must have a 
number of gate trophies equal to or greater than the 
number of players. These gate trophies do include the 
one just awarded for closing the last gate, but do not 
include any trophies the players have spent.
If these two conditions are met, the players immediately 
win. Stability is restored to Arkham as the Ancient One 
slips back into a deep slumber for a few more millennia.
B. Seal the Gates
If, at any time, there are six or more elder sign tokens on 
the board, the players immediately win. The Ancient 
One is driven away and peace returns to Arkham.
C. Banish the Ancient One
If the Ancient One awakens (see page 20) but the investi-
gators manage to defeat it, the players immediately win. 
The Ancient One is banished beyond time and space.
Scoring Victories
If the players achieve one of the preceding victory con-
ditions, the investigators have defeated the Mythos 
threat and saved Arkham. The player with the most gate 
trophies is awarded the honorary title of First Citizen of 
Arkham. In the case of a tie, the title goes to the player 
with the most monster trophies.
You can rate your victory by using the following scoring 
system. Start with the highest printed number on the 
doom track of the Ancient One. Subtract the terror level 
at the end of the game from this number. Now apply the 
following modifiers:
–1 per unpaid/defaulted Bank Loan
–1 per elder sign played during the game
+1 per unspent gate trophy at the end of the game
+1 for every three unspent monster trophies held at the 
end of the game.
+1 per sane, surviving investigator at the end of the 
game
Example: The courageous investigators close the final 
gate, returning Azathoth to his fitful slumber just as the 
terror level climbs to 6. Subtracting the terror level (6) 
from the highest printed number on Azathoth’s doom 
track (14) gives a base score of 8. The group had two 
defaulted Bank Loans (–2), played three elder signs dur-
ing the game (–3), had eight unspent gate trophies (+8), 
had 17 unspent monster trophies (+5), and had 5 sane, 
surviving investigators at the end of the game (+5) for a 
total of 21 points. 
Defeat
If the Ancient One awakens and defeats all of the inves-
tigators in battle, the space-time continuum ruptures, the 
Ancient One is unleashed, and all of mankind suffers for 
the investigators’ failure. In this unfortunate event, all 
players lose the game.
Other Rules
After reading the rules up to this point, you should be 
familiar with the overall flow of the game, including 
what you must accomplish to win. The remaining sec-
tions of this rulebook offer everything you’ll need to 
know to meet those objectives: how to make skill checks 
for your investigator, how to evade and fight monsters, 
how to cast spells, how to close or seal gates, and more.
Skills
These are the basic abilities investigators use to accom-
plish things in the game. Every investigator has six 
skills, listed below. Investigators also have a value for 
each of these skills, depending on how they have posi-
tioned their skill sliders (see page 6). A skill value rep-
resents the number of dice the investigator rolls for a 
check based on that skill.
Fight: Used for physical feats of strength and endur-
ance. Also used in combat.
Lore: Used for tests of mystic knowledge and ability. 
Also used in casting spells.
Luck: Used to determine the whims of chance. It is the 
most common skill used in encounters.
Sneak: Used for feats of stealth and thievery. Also used 
when evading monsters.

Speed: Used for tests of quickness and agility. Also used 
to determine an investigator’s movement.
Will: Used to test an investigator’s force of personality 
and willpower. Also used for Horror checks at the start 
of combat.
Investigators are often called upon to perform skill 
checks in order to avoid harm or to accomplish some-
thing in the game. When the game calls for a skill check, 
it is presented in a consistent format that provides the 
following information:
• The skill you must use to perform the check
• The modifier (bonus or penalty) to the check, if any
• The difficulty of the check (not listed if the 
difficulty is 1)
Example 1: Make a Sneak (–1) check. In this example, 
Sneak is the skill the investigator must use for the check. 
The modifier is –1, a penalty in this case. Since it is not 
specifically listed, the difficulty is 1.
Example 2: Make a Luck (+2) [2] check. In this exam-
ple, Luck is the skill the investigator must use for the 
check. The modifier is +2, a bonus. The difficulty is 2.
When making a skill check, a player always rolls a num-
ber of dice equal to his investigator’s value in the appro-
priate skill.
Modifiers and difficulties are discussed in more detail 
below.
Modifiers
This number is added to or subtracted from the investigator’s 
skill value before the player makes the check. The result is 
the number of dice the player rolls to make the check. Note 
that modifiers always apply to the number of dice a player 
rolls for a check, not to the results of the individual dice.
Example: Michael McGlen is asked to make the two 
skill checks listed in the example above. His current 
Sneak is 3 and his current Luck is 2. In the first exam-
ple, he subtracts one from his Sneak of 3 (for the –1 
modifier) and therefore rolls two dice. In the second, he 
adds two to his Luck of 2 (for the +2 modifier) and 
therefore rolls four dice.
Important: If the modifier reduces an investigator to 0 
or fewer dice, he automatically fails the check. The play-
er may still spend Clue tokens to make the check (see 
“Spending Clue Tokens on Skill Checks,” on this page).
Difficulty
This is the number of successes an investigator must roll 
during a skill check to pass the check. Each die result of 
5 or 6 counts as one success. Remember that if a skill 
check does not list a difficulty, it is assumed to be 1.
Example 1: Michael McGlen rolls two dice for the Sneak 
check described above. He gets a 2 and a 5. The 5 is a suc-
cess, giving him a total of one success. Since the Sneak 
check had no listed difficulty, it is assumed to be 1. Michael 
has enough successes to pass the check.
Example 2: Michael next rolls four dice for the Luck check 
described above. He gets 2, 5, 3, and 6, for a total of 2 suc-
cesses (the 5 and 6 were both successes). Since the check’s 
difficulty was 2, Michael passes the Luck check.
There are four types of special skill checks that players 
should be aware of: Evade checks, Horror checks, 
Combat checks, and Spell checks. Each of these spe-
cial skill checks are based on one of the six skills listed 
above and are described later in this rulebook. If an 
investigator receives a bonus to a skill, any special 
checks based on that skill also receive this bonus. 
However, if an investigator receives a bonus only to a 
special check, that bonus does not apply to any other 
checks based on the same skill.
For example, Evade checks are a special type of Sneak 
check. A Skill card that gives +1 Sneak is useful both for 
Sneak and Evade checks. However, an item that gives 
+2 to Evade checks is only useful when making Evade 
checks. That bonus cannot be used on a normal Sneak 
check.
Spending Clue Tokens on 
Clue tokens represent information about the Mythos 
threat that an investigator may acquire. A player may 
spend Clue tokens, one at a time, after any skill check 
(failed or not). Each spent Clue token allows the player 
to roll one additional die; if the result is a success, it is 
added to the total from the original roll.
Example: Joe Diamond fails a Lore (–1) [3] check, but 
gets two successes. Deciding that he really needs to pass 
this check, he discards one Clue token and rolls another 
die, getting a 3. Still no success, so Joe spends a second 
Clue token and rolls a second die, this time getting a 6. 
This extra success increases his total number of success-
es for the check to 3, enough to pass the check.
Important: Spending a Clue token always gives you the 
bonus dice that you are entitled to, even if the modifier 
has dropped the number of dice you can roll below 0.

When an investigator attempts to move out of an area 
containing a monster, or ends his movement in such an 
area, he must either fight the monster or evade it.
An investigator may attempt to evade a monster by mak-
ing an Evade check. An Evade check is a skill check 
using the investigator’s Sneak value. The check is modi-
fied by the monster’s Awareness value, which is printed in 
the upper-right corner of the monster marker’s movement 
side. The difficulty of the Evade check is always 1 unless 
the monster has a special ability that states otherwise.
If the investigator passes the Evade check, he evades the 
monster and the player may continue his turn as normal, 
whether continuing movement or interacting with the 
area. If the investigator fails the check, the monster 
immediately deals its combat damage to him and combat 
with the monster begins (see “Combat,” later in these 
rules).
Example: Ashcan Pete moves from the Merchant 
District into Northside, where a Star Spawn is waiting 
for him. Pete wants to continue moving to the Curiositie 
Shoppe, so he must evade the Star Spawn. Pete’s current 
Sneak is 4 and the Star Spawn’s Awareness is –1, so he 
rolls three dice, hoping for at least one success. If he 
passes the check, he has evaded the Star Spawn and may 
continue moving. If he fails, the Star Spawn damages 
him for 3 Stamina and he enters combat with it.
An investigator may remain in the same area as a monster 
after evading it. He simply remains where he is and does 
not have to enter combat with the monster this phase. This 
allows an investigator to enter a gate in the same location 
as evaded monsters. Such an investigator could (if able) 
evade the monsters during the Movement Phase, and enter 
the gate during the Arkham Encounters Phase. 
Example: In the example above, if Pete successfully 
evades the Star Spawn, he could choose to remain in the 
Northside area without fighting it for now. However, 
once the next Movement Phase takes place, he’ll have to 
deal with the Star Spawn once more (by either evading it 
again or fighting it).
If there is more than one monster in an area, the investi-
gator must evade each monster in turn, in any order he 
chooses. If he fails to evade a monster, the monster deals 
its combat damage to him and combat with the monster 
begins. If he defeats the monster, he must still fight or 
evade any monsters in the area that he has not yet either 
fought or evaded. Regardless of whether or not any fur-
ther evade attempts succeed, the investigator’s move-
ment is finished as soon as he fails even one evade 
check.
Example: If the Star Spawn in the example above was 
also accompanied by a Shoggoth, Pete would need to 
evade both of them to keep moving to the Curiositie 
Shoppe. If Pete decides to evade the Star Spawn first 
and fails the check, he can no longer move. Assuming he 
wins the ensuing combat with the Star Spawn, he must 
still either fight or evade the Shoggoth.
Sometimes monsters appear as the result of a location or 
gate encounter. An investigator can evade these monsters 
just like any others. However, these monsters never 
remain on the board after the encounter is resolved. If an 
investigator evades such a monster, immediately return 
the marker to the monster cup.
Eventually, all investigators have to face their fears and 
do battle with the Mythos. Whenever an investigator 
enters combat with a monster, resolve the following 
steps, in order.
1. Horror Check
First, the alien nature of the Mythos threatens to over-
whelm the investigator’s mind. This is represented by a 
Horror check.
A Horror check is a skill check using the investigator’s 
Will value. This value is modified by the monster’s horror 
rating (found in the lower-left corner of its combat side). 
The difficulty of this check is always 1 unless the monster 
has a special ability that states otherwise.
If the investigator passes the check, nothing happens. If 
he fails the check, the investigator loses the amount of 
Sanity shown underneath the monster’s horror rating. The 
player discards the appropriate number of Sanity tokens 
from his investigator sheet. An investigator reduced to 
zero Sanity tokens is driven insane (see page 16).
Example: Ashcan Pete failed to evade the Star Spawn, 
so now he must make a Horror check. Pete’s Will is cur-
rently 3, but the Star Spawn’s horror rating is –3, so 
Pete doesn’t get to roll any dice for the check and auto-
matically fails. Pete loses 2 Sanity, as shown underneath 
the Star Spawn’s horror rating. Pete removes two Sanity 
tokens from his sheet. If he had somehow managed to 
succeed, nothing would have happened to him.
Whether he passes the check or not, an investigator only 
needs to make one Horror check each time he does bat-
tle with a monster. If the investigator successfully 
evades the monster in the first place, he never needs to 
make a Horror check at all.
Example 1: Here, Amanda moves from 
the Woods to the Uptown Streets, where the 
Dhole is waiting for her. Amanda wishes to con-
tinue moving to the Southside Streets, so she’ll 
have to make an Evade check. Her Sneak is cur-
rently 2, and the Dhole’s Awareness is ­–1, so 
Amanda will roll 1 die, hoping for a success.
Example 1A: Should Amanda fail her Evade 
check, the Dhole immediately deals its combat 
damage to her, and she loses 4 Stamina. If she’s 
still conscious, she then has to make a Horror 
check, and if she survives that, she’ll have to 
decide whether to fight the Dhole or try to flee 
from it again. Even if Amanda defeats the Dhole 
somehow, her movement is over at this point.
Example 1B: Should Amanda pass her Evade 
check, she successfully slips past the Dhole, and 
her movement can continue as normal. In the 
illustration above, she continues on her way to 
the Southside Streets.

2. Fight or Flee
Next, the investigator must choose: He may either 
attempt to flee or fight the monster.
A. Flee
The investigator tries to evade the monster, using an 
Evade check just as described under “Evading 
Monsters” earlier in these rules. If he passes the check, 
he eludes the monster and the battle immediately ends. 
If he fails the check, the monster deals its combat dam-
age to the investigator and the battle continues (see 
“Monster Damage,” below).
B. Fight
If the investigator fights the monster, he makes a 
Combat check. A Combat check is a skill check using 
the investigator’s Fight value. This value is modified by 
the monster’s combat rating (printed in the lower-right 
corner of its combat side). The difficulty of this check is 
equal to the monster’s toughness, which is represented 
by the number of “blood drop” icons that appear in the 
lower center of the monster’s combat side.
If the investigator passes the Combat check, he defeats 
the monster. The investigator’s player removes the 
marker from the board and places it in front of him as a 
monster trophy. If the investigator fails the check, the 
monster deals its combat damage to him (see “Monster 
Damage,” on this page).
Example: After failing his Horror check, Ashcan Pete 
decides to fight the Star Spawn rather than attempt to 
flee. Pete’s Fight is 6 and the Star Spawn’s combat rat-
ing is –3, so Pete rolls three dice. The Star Spawn’s 
toughness is 3 (the difficulty for the check), so Pete must 
succeed on all three dice to defeat the monster. If Pete 
succeeds, he takes the Star Spawn marker and places it 
in front of him as a monster trophy. If he fails, the Star 
Spawn deals its combat damage to Pete.
Important: If a monster’s toughness is greater than 1, 
partial success has no effect on it. A monster must be 
completely defeated in one Combat check or it ignores 
all successes the investigator rolled.
3. Monster Damage
Each time an investigator fails to evade or defeat a mon-
ster, the monster deals its combat damage to the investi-
gator. The amount of combat damage a monster deals is 
printed below its combat rating. The investigator loses 
Stamina equal to this number. The player discards the 
appropriate number of Stamina tokens from his investi-
gator sheet. An investigator reduced to zero Stamina 
tokens is knocked unconscious (see page 16).
Note that some monsters have abilities that add some 
special effect to their combat damage. For example, the 
Nightgaunt drops the investigator through the nearest 
open gate instead of causing the investigator to lose 
Stamina tokens.
If the investigator remains conscious, sane, and in the 
same space as the monster after this step is resolved, the 
combat continues. Return to step 2, Fight or Flee, and 
continue the combat until it is resolved.
Example: Pete fails the Combat check, so the Star 
Spawn deals its combat damage to him. The Star 
Spawn’s combat damage is 3, so Pete loses three 
Stamina. Battered, bruised, and more than a little crazy, 
Pete prepares for another round of combat.
Example: Here, Amanda has decided to 
fight an Elder Thing. The first thing she’ll 
have to do is make a Horror check. Her 
Will is 2, but looking at the Elder Thing’s 
horror rating (A), she sees that its modi-
fier is –3, bringing her total down to –1, 
which automatically fails. As a result, she 
loses 2 Sanity, as shown beneath the 
Elder Thing’s horror rating.
Assuming that Amanda isn’t driven insane 
by the Sanity loss, she can now make a 
Combat check to try to defeat the Elder 
Thing. Her Fight is 3, and looking at the 
Elder Thing’s combat rating (B), she sees 
that it has a modifier of +0, giving her a 
total of 3 dice for her check. The monster 
has a toughness of 2, so she’ll need 2 suc-
cesses to defeat it. Crossing her fingers, 
she rolls the dice and gets this result:
 
The 5 and the 6 are both successes, giving 
her the 2 successes she needed to defeat 
the Elder Thing! She claims it as a mon-
ster trophy.
If Amanda had failed, the Elder Thing 
would have dealt its combat damage to her, 
causing her to lose 1 Stamina and 1 
Weapon or Spell of her choice. She would 
then have to decide whether to fight it again 
or try to flee from it. However, she would 
not need to make another Horror check, 
since she’s already made one this combat.

Using Weapons and Spells in 
Investigators can gain a valuable edge in combat by 
using weapons and spells. The biggest advantage of 
weapons is that they automatically grant bonuses on 
Combat checksno additional skill checks are required 
to use them. However, most weapons grant Physical 
Combat bonuses, which have no effect at all against 
many Mythos monsters.
Spells, on the other hand, grant Magical Combat 
bonuses. These are effective against almost every mon-
ster in Arkham Horror. An investigator must success-
fully cast a spell to gain its benefits (see “Casting 
Spells” on this page). If an investigator fails to cast a 
spell, it provides no bonuses for the combat at all. In 
other words, spells are more powerful and versatile than 
weapons, but they are not always a sure thing.
Weapon and Spell Limits
There is a limitation on the number of weapons and 
spells an investigator may use at once. This limitation is 
represented by “hand” icons printed in the lower-left 
corner of each weapon and spell card. Each investigator 
may use any combination of weapons and spells and add 
their skill bonuses together, as long as their combined 
number of hand icons does not exceed two. Note that a 
spell requires the number of hands printed on the card, 
even if the investigator fails to cast it. 
A spell or weapon that gives you a bonus (even one that 
says it lasts until the end of combat) only continues to 
give you the bonus while you devote the required num-
ber of hands to it. You can choose to switch weapons/
spells in later combat rounds, but as soon as you 
“release” a spell or weapon, it stops working for you. 
Similarly, spells that are refreshed (such as at the begin-
ning of each combat round in the final battle) cease to 
work and must be re-cast.
Example: Ashcan Pete has acquired some equipment 
and a spell before he faces a Star Spawn. He decides to 
use his .45 Automatic (a weapon that gives him a +4 
Physical Combat bonus and uses one hand) and 
Shrivelling (a spell that gives him a +6 Magical Combat 
bonus if successfully cast and uses one hand). Pete suc-
cessfully casts Shrivelling. With the .45 Automatic and 
the successful spell casting, he gains a total bonus of 
+10 (+4 from the weapon, +6 from the spell). Adding 
his Fight value of 6, Pete’s total skill for the Combat 
check is 16. He then accounts for the Star Spawn’s com-
bat rating (–3), leaving him with 13 dice with which to 
roll 3 successes (as the Star Spawn’s toughness is 3).
Casting Spells
An investigator must successfully cast a spell in order to 
gain its benefits. Every spell has a casting modifier, and 
most have a Sanity cost. To cast a spell, an investigator 
must pay its Sanity cost and then pass a Spell check.
To pay the Sanity cost of a spell, the player simply 
removes a number of Sanity tokens from his total equal 
to the cost of the spell. Players must always pay the 
Sanity cost of a spell, whether or not the investigator 
subsequently passes the Spell check.
A Spell check is a skill check that uses the investigator’s 
Lore value, adjusted by the spell’s casting modifier. If 
the Spell check fails, the spell has no effect. If the check 
succeeds, the spell takes effect.
Example: Harvey Walters attempts to cast Heal, a spell 
with a casting modifier of +1 and a Sanity cost of 1. 
First, Harvey pays the Sanity cost , then he makes a 
Lore (+1) check. His Lore is 4 at the moment, so he rolls 
5 dice and gets 2 successes. The Heal spell is successful. 
The spell’s effect allows Harvey to recover Stamina 
equal to the number of successes he rolled on the Spell 
check, so Harvey recovers two Stamina.
Investigator Status
This section of the rules describes the various condi-
tions that may affect an investigator during the course 
Sanity and Stamina
An investigator begins the game with a number of 
Sanity and Stamina tokens equal to the values listed on 
the investigator’s sheet. These two values are the 
investigator’s maximum Sanity and maximum 
Stamina. While an investigator may gain and lose 
Sanity or Stamina over the course of the game, the 
investigator’s current Sanity or Stamina may never 
exceed the investigator’s maximum Sanity or Stamina.
Insane in Arkham
If an investigator is ever reduced to 0 Sanity while in 
Arkham, the investigator is driven temporarily insane. 
He must immediately choose and discard half of his 
items and half of his Clue tokens (rounded down), along 
with all retainers (if any). The player then immediately 
moves his investigator to Arkham Asylum. The investi-
gator is restored to 1 Sanity, returning 1 Sanity token to 
his investigator sheet, and has no further encounters this 
turn. The investigator may take his next turn as normal.
Unconscious in Arkham
If an investigator is ever reduced to 0 Stamina while in 
Arkham, the investigator is knocked unconscious. He 
must immediately choose and discard half of his items 
and half of his Clue tokens (rounded down), along with 
all retainers (if any). The player then immediately moves 
his investigator to St. Mary’s Hospital. The investigator is 
restored to 1 Stamina and has no further encounters this 
turn. The investigator may take his next turn as normal. 
Insane or Unconscious in an Other 
World
If an investigator is reduced to 0 Stamina or 0 Sanity 
while in an Other World, the investigator is lost in time 
and space. He must immediately choose and discard half 
of his items and half of his Clue tokens (rounded down), 
along with all retainers (if any). His Stamina and Sanity 
are restored to a minimum of 1. The player immediately 
moves his investigator to the Lost in Time and Space area 
of the board and places the investigator marker on its side 
to indicate that the investigator is delayed (see “Lost in 
Time and Space,” on the next page).
Important: When adding up items before discarding 
them, count all Common Items, Unique Items, and 
Spells. In addition, the Deputy’s Revolver and the Patrol 
Wagon both count as items. Allies, Skills, and other 
cards do not count towards this total.
Delayed Investigators
An investigator whose marker is placed on its side has 
been delayed. Delayed investigators do not move during 
the Movement Phase, and they receive no movement 
points. Instead, when the player of the delayed investi-
gator takes his turn in the Movement Phase, he should 
stand the investigator marker back up to show that the 
investigator is no longer delayed.
Arrested Investigators
Some encounters may result in an investigator being 
arrested and taken to the Police Station. When this 
occurs, the player should place the investigator in the 
Jail Cell (rather than the main Police Station area). 
Arrested investigators lose half of their money (round 
down) and are delayed. The player completely skips the 
next turn, simply standing his investigator marker and 
placing it in the main area of the Police Station during 
the Movement Phase. The player may act in the follow-
ing turn as normal.

Lost in Time and Space
Any investigator who is lost in time and space is imme-
diately moved to the Lost in Time and Space area of the 
board. The investigator is now delayed, and the player 
should place the investigator marker on its side. The 
investigator loses his next turn, remaining in the Lost in 
Time and Space area. The player may only stand his 
investigator marker back up during the Movement 
Phase. On the following turn, at the start of the Upkeep 
Phase, the player may move his investigator to any loca-
tion or street area of his choice in Arkham.
Devoured Investigators
In rare cases, investigators may be devoured. The player 
immediately discards all of his cards (except unspent 
trophies) and shuffles his investigator sheet in with the 
unused investigator sheets. The player then draws a new 
investigator at random and sets up the investigator as if 
he were starting a new game (as described in “Game 
Setup,” page 5).
If an investigator is reduced to both 0 Sanity and 0 
Stamina at the same time, that investigator is devoured.
If an investigator’s maximum sanity or maximum 
stamina is reduced to 0, that investigator is devoured.
Blessed and Cursed 
Investigators
Blessings and curses represent aid or interference from 
greater powers, and investigators may gain these cards 
through encounters or rumors.
• While an investigator is Blessed, every die result of 4 
or better counts as a success.
• While an investigator is Cursed, only die results of 6 
count as successes.
An investigator may never be Blessed and Cursed at the 
same time. If a Blessed investigator is Cursed, simply 
discard the Blessing. If a Cursed investigator is Blessed, 
simply discard the Curse. Likewise, a player may never 
have more than one Bless or Curse card at a time.
Closing and Sealing Gates
As dimensional gates open in locations all over Arkham, 
the investigators must work to close or seal them.
Closing Gates
Before he can close a gate, an investigator must enter 
the gate, explore the Other World it leads to, and then 
return to Arkham.
When an investigator returns from an Other World, as 
described earlier, the player should place an explored 
marker under his investigator marker. This gives the 
investigator an opportunity to destroy and close the gate 
during the next Arkham Encounters Phase. If the investi-
gator leaves the gate’s location for any reason, the player 
must discard the explored marker – the investigator has 
missed his opportunity and must explore the gate again 
if he wishes to close it.
If, during the Arkham Encounters Phase, an investigator 
is on a location that contains an open gate and that 
investigator has acquired the explored marker, he may 
now attempt to close the gate. To do so, the investigator 
must choose whether to make a Lore check or a Fight 
check, using the number printed on the gate marker as 
the modifier. If the investigator succeeds at this check, 
he closes the gate and takes the gate marker as a gate 
trophy. If the investigator fails, the gate remains open. 
The investigator can try to close it during the Arkham 
Encounters Phase next turn (and in subsequent turns, as 
long as he does not leave the gate location).
Sealing Gates
A: Using Clue Tokens
B: Using an  Elder Sign
To seal a gate using Clue 
tokens, a player must:
1. Succeed at his roll to close 
the gate.
2. Spend 5 Clue tokens.
3. Claim the gate marker as a 
gate trophy.
4. Take 1 elder sign token from 
the pile of unused tokens and 
place it on the location where 
the gate was sealed.
To seal a gate using an elder 
sign, a player must:
1. Return the elder sign card 
to the box (no roll to close the 
gate is needed).
2. Claim the gate marker as a 
gate trophy.
3. Take 1 doom token from the 
Ancient One’s terror track, turn 
it over to its elder sign side and 
place it on the location where 
the gate was sealed. This effec-
tively decreases the current 
doom track rating by 1.

Sealing Gates
If an investigator successfully closes a gate, he may 
immediately spend five Clue tokens to permanently seal 
it. The player takes a doom token from the pile of 
unused doom tokens, turns it over to its elder sign side, 
and places the token on the gate location. The player 
still claims the gate marker as a trophy. The gate is now 
sealed: No further gates can open and no monsters can 
appear at the location of the sealed gate for the remain-
der of the game.
Monsters and Closing Gates
When a gate is closed, all monsters in Arkham, the Sky, 
and the Outskirts that have the same dimension symbol 
(see “Monster Movement,” page 10) as the closed or 
sealed gate are removed from the board and returned to 
the cup. A monster’s dimension symbol is printed in the 
lower-right corner of the marker’s movement side.
Elder Signs
Elder signs are a specific type of Unique Item that inves-
tigators can use to seal gates. There are several elder 
sign cards in the Unique Item deck. To use an elder sign, 
the investigator must be at the location of the gate and 
must have acquired an explored marker, just as if he 
were attempting to close the gate. The investigator does 
not need to make a Lore or Fight check or spend any 
Clue tokens to use the elder sign.
To use an elder sign, do the following:
• The player removes 1 Sanity and 1 Stamina from his 
investigator sheet. This may knock the investigator 
unconscious or drive him insane, but the elder sign still 
takes effect.
• The player takes a doom token from the Ancient One’s 
doom track (not the pile of unused doom tokens), turns it 
to its elder sign side, and places it on the location to be 
sealed. This effectively lowers the current doom level of 
the game by 1, and this is one of the only ways to do so.
• The player then returns the elder sign card to the box. 
This specific card cannot be drawn or used again this 
game.
Once these actions have been taken, the gate is now 
sealed: No further gates can open and no monsters can 
appear at the location of the sealed gate for the remain-
der of the game.
Monsters Guarding Gates
During the turn he returns to Arkham from an Other 
World, an investigator does not have to evade or fight 
any monsters in the gate’s location. This rule only 
applies during the turn he returns to Arkham; in subse-
quent turns, if the investigator remains in the location, 
he must evade or fight any monsters there as normal.
Monster Limits and
the Outskirts
There is a limit on the number of monsters that may be 
in Arkham at one time. The limit is equal to the number 
of players in the game, plus three.
This monster limit only applies to those monsters actual-
ly moving around on the Arkham city portion of the 
board or located in the “Sky” area. Monsters that appear 
at a location and are then removed from the board do 
not count, nor do monsters located in the Outskirts. 
Important: If the terror level reaches 10, Arkham is 
overrun and the monster limit is removed for the rest of 
the game. See “The Terror Track,” below.
If adding a monster to the board would bring the number 
of monsters in Arkham above the monster limit, the 
monster is placed in the Outskirts area instead. 
Monsters in the Outskirts remain there until the 
Outskirts become too full.
Maximum Monsters in 	 	
	
	
	
 Outskirts
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
When the number of monsters in the Outskirts exceeds 
this limit, return all of the monsters in the Outskirts to 
the monster cup and increase the terror level by 1. The 
terror level is described below.

Ancient  One Sheet Breakdown
1: Name: The Ancient One’s name.
2: Combat Rating: This is the Ancient One’s com-
bat rating. It is only used if it awakens and the play-
ers have to fight it.
3: Defenses: This section lists any defensive abilities 
the Ancient One has. See Monster Special Abilities 
on page 24 for descriptions of these abilities.
4: Worshippers: This section grants certain abilities 
to one or more types of monsters. These abilities are 
active all game long.
5: Power: This is a unique effect that the Ancient 
One has on gameplay. Most effects are active all 
game long.
6: Attack: This is the Ancient One’s attack, only 
used during combat with it. Some Ancient Ones also 
have a Start of Battle ability that occurs only once, 
when investigators begin to battle it.
7: Doom Track: This tracks how close the Ancient 
One is to waking up.
Battling Ancient Ones
At the start of the battle, be sure that the Ancient 
One’s doom track is completely filled with 
doom tokens. Immediately activate any Start of 
Battle abilities the Ancient One may have.
Each round, players first get an Upkeep 
Phase, then take turns making attacks on the 
Ancient One, keeping a running tally of the 
total number of successes they’ve scored as a 
group. Each time they accumulate a number of 
successes equal to the number of players or 
higher (for example, 4+ successes in a 4 player 
game), they remove 1 doom token from the 
Ancient One’s doom track and reset the suc-
cess tally to 0.
After each player has made an attack, the Ancient 
One attacks. Often, the players will need to make 
skill checks or suffer some misfortune, as 
described on the Ancient One sheet.
Ending the Battle
Should the players remove the last doom token 
from the Ancient One’s doom track, the Ancient 
One is defeated and they win!
However, if all of the investigators are 
devoured, they have failed to stop the Ancient 
One’s arrival, and they lose the game.

The Terror Track
The terror track shows the current terror level in Arkham 
– the current mental state of the city’s inhabitants. Various 
things can raise the terror level, such as too many mon-
sters entering the Outskirts or the effects of some Mythos 
cards. The terror level can never go down, so players 
should be very cautious about allowing it to increase.
When the terror level rises, move the terror track marker 
up the terror track as indicated. The terror track marker 
cannot leave the track, so the terror level cannot go 
above 10.
Once the terror level has reached 10, if it ever increases 
again (via a Mythos card special ability, for example), 
instead of moving the terror track marker, add one doom 
token to the Ancient One’s doom track for each point the 
terror level should have increased.
“Margie, pack your bags!”
The most obvious effect of the terror level is that people 
pack up and leave town. For every point the terror 
level goes up, select one Ally card at random from 
the Ally deck and return it to the box. That Ally is no 
longer available for the rest of the game. Once all Allies 
have been returned to the box or claimed by investiga-
tors, this specific result has no effect for the remainder 
“That’s it. I’m Moving the Shop to 
Boston.”
If the terror level reaches a sufficiently high level, the 
Curiositie Shoppe, the General Store, and Ye Olde 
Magick Shoppe close for the rest of the game.
If the terror level reaches 3, place a closed marker on the 
General Store. It is closed for the rest of the game and 
no one may enter that location. Immediately move any 
investigators and monsters currently at the General Store 
to the Rivertown street area.
If the terror level reaches 6, place a closed marker on the 
Curiositie Shoppe. It is closed for the rest of the game 
and no one may enter that location. Immediately move 
any investigator or monster currently at The Curiositie 
Shoppe to the Northside street area.
If the terror level reaches 9, place a closed marker on Ye 
Olde Magick Shoppe. It is closed for the rest of the 
game and no one may enter that location. Immediately 
move any investigator or monster currently at Ye Olde 
Magick Shoppe to the Uptown street area.
“Look at All the Monsters.”
If the terror level reaches 10, the town of Arkham is 
overrun by monsters and the monster limit is completely 
removed from the game. There is no longer any limit on 
the number of monsters that can rampage through town.
The Ancient One 
 Awakens!
No matter how valiantly the investigators struggle, they 
are facing incredible odds. Despite their best efforts, the 
Ancient One may awaken and enter Arkham. If this 
comes to pass, the only thing the investigators can do is 
try to drive it back using the weapons and magic they’ve 
accumulated throughout the game. 
There are five conditions under which the Ancient One 
may awaken.
1. Doom Track is Full
If enough gates open, eventually the Ancient One’s 
doom track will fill up with doom tokens, even if the 
investigators use all of the elder signs. When a doom 
token is placed on the last open space on the doom 
track, the Ancient One awakens immediately.
2. Too Many Gates Open
If the investigators allow too many gates to be open at 
the same time, this can awaken the Ancient One. The 
number of open gates that will immediately awaken the 
Ancient One depends on the number of players.
Number of Open Gates
	
1−2	
	
	
	
3−4	
	
	
	
5−6	
	
	
	
7−8	
	
	
3. No Gate Markers
Finally, the Ancient One awakens immediately when a 
new gate opens and there are no unused gate markers 
left in the pile. Thus, if gate markers run low, players 
should spend one or more gate trophies to replenish the 
supply.
4. No Monsters in the Cup
The Ancient One also awakens if a monster should be 
drawn from the monster cup, but there are no monsters 
in the cup. 
5. Terror Level 10 and Too Many 
Monsters
The Ancient One also awakens if the terror level has 
reached 10 and there are monsters in play equal to twice 
the normal monster limit (for example, 16` monsters in a 
five-player game).
Very Important: If the Ancient One awakens and its 
doom track is not full, fill its doom track with doom 
tokens before proceeding to the final battle.

Movement Side
Combat Side
1: Name: The monster’s name. 
2: Awareness: This is the modifier used to Evade 
	
this monster. 
3: Movement Border: The color of the border indicates 
	
the monster’s movement type (Black – normal, 
	
Red – fast, Yellow – stationary, Blue – flying, 
	
Green – special). 
4: Home Dimension: This is the monster’s home 
	
dimension. When a gate is sealed or closed, all 
	
monsters in play that share its home dimension are 
	
returned to the cup.
1: Abilities: Any special traits or abilities that the 
monster has. See Monster Abilities on page 24 
for a complete explanation of bolded traits. 
2: Flavor Text: This text has no game effect. It 
is there only to provide atmosphere. 
3: Horror Rating: This is the modifier used in 
Horror checks against this monster. 
4. Horror Damage: This shows how many 
Sanity tokens an investigator loses if he fails a 
Horror check against this monster. 
5: Toughness: This is the difficulty of any 
Combat checks made against this monster. 
6. Combat Damage: This shows how many 
Stamina tokens an investigator loses if he fails a 
Combat check against this monster.
 
7: Combat Rating: This is the modifier used in 
Combat checks against this monster. 
Game Board Breakdown
The game board is divided into several sections: Arkham 
(A), the Other Worlds (C), the Terror Track (D), and the 
City Limits (E–G).
The Arkham city section of the board shows the city of 
Arkham divided into 9 neighborhoods, each of which 
has between 2 and 3 important locations in it, as well as 
a street area (B). The investigators move around on this 
section of the board, passing through the streets to visit 
the various locations. Each location is marked with a 
number of icons showing the most common types of 
encounters at that location.
The Other Worlds (C) section of the board shows several 
alternate dimensions that the investigators can enter by 
moving through the gates that open up on the Arkham 
section of the board. Investigators enter gates in order to 
explore them and find some weakness that will enable 
them to close the gate once they’ve returned to Arkham.
The Terror Track (D) section of the board tracks the cur-
rent terror level of the townsfolk of Arkham. If the inves-
tigators allow the terror level of Arkham to get too high, 
people will begin to leave town, making it difficult to 
recruit Allies. Eventually the three shops in town (The 
General Store, The Curiositie Shoppe, and Ye Olde Magick 
Shoppe) will close down, making it more difficult for the 
players to win the game.
The City Limits section of the board contains three special 
areas: Outskirts (E), The Sky (F) and Lost in Time and 
Space (G). Investigators that suffer a horrible fate of some 
sort move to Lost in Time and Space for a short time. 
Monsters on the board in excess of the limit wander out of 
town to the Outskirts where they terrorize the inhabitants. 
Finally, flying monsters move to The Sky before swooping 
down on the next investigator they spot moving through 
the streets of Arkham.
Monster Marker Breakdown
Investigator Sheet Breakdown
1: Name and Occupation: Your character’s name 
and job.
2: Maximum Sanity: This is how much Sanity 
your character starts the game with. You cannot 
raise your Sanity higher than this number (although 
you can increase this number).
3: Maximum Stamina: This is how much Stamina 
your character starts with. You cannot raise your 
Stamina higher than this number (although you can 
increase this number).
4: Home: This is the location on the game board at 
which your investigator starts the game.
5: Possessions: This is the equipment your charac-
ter starts the game with.
6: Unique Ability: This is a special ability only 
your character can use.
7: Focus: This is your character’s ability to adjust 
his skills each turn. See Adjusting Skills on page 6 
for more info.
8: Skill Pairs: These are your character’s skills. 
They are paired so that if you increase one skill in a 
pair, the other decreases.

The Final Battle
When the Ancient One awakens, any investigators that 
are lost in time and space are immediately devoured and 
eliminated from the game. The surviving investigators 
must face the Ancient One in the final battle! 
Before the final battle begins, discard any active 
Environment or Rumor cards. Additionally, once the 
final battle begins, investigators should no longer collect 
money or roll for Retainers or Bank Loans.
Combat with the Ancient One is divided into rounds. 
During a round, players first have an opportunity to 
adjust their investigators. Then, each player attacks the 
Ancient One. Finally, the Ancient One attacks the inves-
tigators. Once these steps have been resolved, a new 
round begins. The structure of each round in a battle 
with an Ancient One is as follows:
1. Investigators Refresh
At the beginning of a round of combat with an Ancient 
One, the investigators may refresh their cards, use any 
character abilities, and adjust their skill sliders as though 
it were the Upkeep Phase. Next, the first player marker 
should be passed to the left. Finally, they may trade 
items among themselves as if they were in the same 
location (see “Trading Equipment” on the next page).
2. Investigators Attack
Next, starting with the first player and continuing clock-
wise around the table, every player whose investigator is 
still participating in the battle may make a Combat 
check against the Ancient One using its combat rating as 
the modifier.
Unlike a normal battle, the Ancient One cannot be 
defeated in a single attack. Instead, keep track of every 
success an investigator scores against the Ancient One 
(see “Skill Checks,” page 13). These successes are 
cumulative, and each successive player adds to them 
with his own attack. When the players accumulate a 
total number of successes equal to the number of players 
(including any players that were eliminated from the 
game), remove one doom token from the Ancient One’s 
doom track and reset their cumulative successes to zero. 
If the last doom token is removed from the Ancient One, 
the investigators have defeated it! See “Ending the 
Game,” page 12.
3. Ancient One Attacks
After all of the players (except eliminated players) have 
made one Combat check against the Ancient One, the 
Ancient One unleashes its attack on each of the investi-
gators. This attack varies by Ancient One, but they are 
all extremely deadly. For example, Hastur forces all the 
investigators to make an increasingly difficult Will 
check or lose Sanity.
Any investigator reduced to 0 Sanity or Stamina by the 
Ancient One’s attack is devoured. If an investigator is 
devoured during the final battle with the Ancient One, 
that player is eliminated from the game (i.e., the player 
does not draw a new character). If all investigators are 
devoured, the Ancient One is unleashed on the world 
and the players lose the game.
After the Ancient One’s attack is resolved for each 
investigator, a new round begins. This continues until 
either the investigators defeat the Ancient One or all 
have been devoured.
Miscellany
 
The following are some additional rules topics that 
should help to clarify play of Arkham Horror.
Discarding Cards
When you discard a card, return it face down to the bot-
tom of the appropriate deck. Players only shuffle most 
decks when they draw a card that instructs them to do 
so. Location decks, however, are shuffled before a play-
er draws from them. A player who draws multiple cards 
from a Location deck draws them all, one after the other, 
without shuffling between draws.
Location Special Abilities
Some locations on the board have special abilities. 
When an investigator enters such a location, the player 
may resolve the special ability of the location instead of 
having an encounter there. If there is an open gate at the 
location, investigators cannot use the location’s special 
ability.
Example: The Science Building has the Dissection abili-
ty. This ability allows an investigator to spend monster 
trophies or gate trophies in exchange for Clue tokens. 
An investigator at the Science Building may use this 
ability instead of having an encounter there, and investi-
gators cannot use the ability if there is an open gate in 
the location.
Monsters in Encounters
Many location and Other World encounters indicate that 
a monster appears. To resolve such an encounter, the 
player must draw a monster from the monster cup and 
resolve the encounter as normal (i.e., the investigator 
may attempt to evade the monster or fight it). No matter 
how the encounter is resolved, the monster is never left 
on the board. The monster is returned to the monster 
cup, regardless of whether the investigator evades or 
defeats the monster, or is knocked unconscious or driven 
insane by it.
Many encounters state that “A gate and a monster 
appear!” For these encounters, both the monster and the 
gate stay on the board. However, many other encounters 
state that just a monster appears. For example, one of 
the Black Cave encounters states “A monster appears!” 
and one of the Hibb’s Roadhouse encounters states “A 
horrible monster appears!” When a monster but not a 
gate appears in an encounter, the monster does not stay 
on the board. If such a monster is defeated, players may 
take it as a trophy (unless its special ability says other-
wise). If the monster is not defeated, it is returned to the 
monster cup, regardless of whether the investigator 
evades the monster or is knocked unconscious or driven 
insane by it.

Special Card Limitations
In most cases, a player may never have more than one 
copy of each special card at the same time. This rule 
applies to Retainers, Bank Loans, Silver Twilight 
Memberships, and Bless/Curse cards.
Spending Money
Often, investigators will be told that they can purchase 
items “for list price” or “for $1 over list price.” An 
item’s list price is always found in the card’s lower-right 
corner. Items are purchased by simply discarding money 
tokens equal to the price listed.
Spending Trophies
There are several locations on the game board where 
players can spend the monster and gate trophies they 
have collected. For example, a player can spend monster 
or gate trophies at the River Docks to gain $5. All mon-
ster trophies spent in this manner are returned to the 
monster cup, while all gate trophies are placed face 
down on the bottom of the pile of gate markers.
Timing Conflicts
If two or more game effects happen simultaneously, the 
players choose the order in which they occur. If the 
players cannot agree, the first player decides.
Trading Equipment
An investigator in the same street area, Other World 
area, or location as another investigator may trade 
money, Common Items, Unique Items, and Spells. This 
may be done before, during, or after movement, but not 
during combat.
Credits
Concept: Richard Launius
Second Edition Game Design: Richard Launius and 
Kevin Wilson
Additional Development: Kevin Wilson, Shannon 
Appelcline, Greg Benage, and Christian T. Petersen
Rules: Shannon Appelcline, Kevin Wilson, Christian T. 
Petersen, and Greg Benage
Editing: Greg Benage and Christian T. Petersen
Additional Ideas and Support: Christopher Allen
Additional Design and Development, First Edition: 
Charlie Krank, Sandy Petersen, Lynn Willis
Graphic Design: Scott Nicely, Brian Schomburg
Playtesting and Comments for this edition: FFG Staff, 
Christopher Allen, Shannon Appelcline, Michael Arick, 
Michael Blum, Jacob Butcher, Charles Engan, Claire 
Engan, Steve Hill, David K., Evan Kinnie, Pete Lane, 
Richard Launius, Thyme Ludwig, Tess O’Riva, Eric 
Rowe, DT Strain, Julie Strain, Nate Tepe, Thor Wright, 
Mike Zebrowski, and Team XYZZY
Executive Developer: Greg Benage
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Special Thanks to: Howard Philips Lovecraft
For online community, FAQ, customer service, and addi-
tional information on Arkham Horror, please visit:
w w w.F a n ta s yF l i g h tG a m e s. c o m
© 2005, 2006 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. No part of this product may be 
reproduced without specific written permission. Published under license from 
Skotos Tech. Call of Cthulhu is a registered trademark of Chaosium, Inc., 
licensed from Chaosium, Inc. Arkham Horror, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy 
Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of 
Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Fantasy Flight Games is 
located at 1975 W. Cty. B2, Suite 1, Roseville, MN 55113, USA, and can be 
reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your 
records. Warning! Not suitable for children under 3 years due to small parts. 
Choking hazard. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in 
China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Index
allies: leaving town, 20
Ambush: 24
Ancient One: awakening, 20; final battle with, 22; sheet 
breakdown, 19
Arkham Encounters Phase: 8-9
Arkham movement: 6-8
arrested: 16
Awareness: 21
Blessed: 17
closing gates: and winning the game, 12; how to 17-18
Clue tokens: picking up, 8; placing , 10; spending, 13-14
combat: 14-16; example of, 15
combat rating (of monsters): 15, 21
Cursed: 17 
damage (from monsters): 15, 21
delayed: 8, 16
devoured: 17; during Final Battle, 22
doom track: 9, 19, 20, 22
elder signs: 18
encounters: in Other Worlds, 8, 9; monsters appearing 
because of: 22; resolving 8-9
ending the game: 12
Endless: 24
Environment: 12
evading monsters: 6, 8 14; example of, 14
exhaust: 6
explored markers: 4, 8
final battle: 22
flying monsters: 11
focus: 6, 21
game board breakdown: 21
gates: and winning the game, 12; closing, 12, 17; mon-
sters guarding: 18; opening during Mythos Phase, 9; 
opening on investigators, 10; sealing, 12, 17, awakening 
the Ancient One, 20, 24
home dimension: 21
insane: 16
investigator sheet breakdown: 19
locations: closing, 20; encounters at, 8-9; special abili-
ties of, 22
lost in time and space: 17
Magical Combat: 16 
Magical Immunity: 24
“Mask” monsters: 5
monster limits: 18, 24
monster marker breakdown: 21
monster movement: 10-11; example of, 10
monster trophies: collecting, 15; spending, 23
Movement Phase: 6, 8
Mythos card (resolving): 9
Mythos Phase: 9-12
neighborhoods: 21
Nightmarish: 24
Other World Encounters Phase: 9
Other World movement: 8
Outskirts: 18, 24
Overwhelming: 24
Physical Combat: 16
Physical Immunity: 24
refresh: 6
Rumor: 12
sealing gates: and winning the game, 12; how to, 18
setup: 
skills: 12-13; adjusting, 6; skill checks, 13
skill checks: 13 
special card limitations: 23
spells, casting: 16
street area: 21
terror track: 20, 21; summary of levels: 24
timing conflicts: 23
toughness (of monsters): 15, 21
trading equipment: 23
unconscious: 16
Upkeep Phase: 6
victories, scoring: 12
weapon and spell limits: 16
weapons: 16

Location Icons
Above each location on the game board is either a green or red 
diamond. This diamond indicates the relative danger of the loca-
tion.
Locations with green diamonds are stable. Monsters and gates 
will never appear in these locations, although it is possible for 
monsters to move to them in certain circumstances.
Locations with red diamonds are unstable. Monsters and gates 
can appear in these locations, sometimes even as a result of 
encounters. These locations should be approached with caution.
Each location on the map also has several icons associated with 
it. These icons tell the players the most likely outcomes they can 
expect when they go to that location. The following is a key to 
the icons you will find at different locations on the board:
Allies 
Blessing 
Clue Tokens
 
Common Items
 
Money 
Additionally, each unstable location gives players the possibil-
ity of encountering an Ally, and Clue tokens will often appear 
in these locations as a result of resolving Mythos cards.
Some locations have special location icons that have their col-
ors reversed, such as the Sanity icon on Arkham Asylum. 
These icons indicate that there is a guaranteed method of 
acquiring the described item at that location.
Monster Special Abilities
Common monster special abilities are described in detail below.
Ambush: Once combat has begun with this creature, the investiga-
tor no longer has the option to flee it, but must instead fight until 
one or the other is defeated.
Endless: A monster with this ability cannot be collected as a monster 
trophy. Instead, each time it is defeated, return it to the cup.
Physical/Magical Resistance: A Weapon or Spell that adds a bonus of 
the resisted type can only provide half its normal bonus (rounded up).
Example: Using a Tommy Gun (normally a +6 Physical bonus) 
against a monster with Physical Resistance only gives a +3 bonus.
Physical/Magical Immunity: A Weapon or Spell that adds a bonus 
of the resisted type provides none of its normal bonus.
Example: Using a Tommy Gun (normally a +6 Physical bonus) 
against a monster with Physical Immunity gives a +0 bonus.
Nightmarish X: Any investigator that passes a Horror check when 
facing this monster still loses X Sanity. This ability doesn’t apply if 
the investigator fails the Horror check.
Example: A Dark Young (Nightmarish 1) causes an investigator to 
lose 3 Sanity if the investigator fails his Horror check or 1 Sanity if the 
investigator passes. The Sanity loss from Nightmarish 1 doesn’t apply 
if the investigator has already failed the Horror check.
Overwhelming X: Any investigator that defeats this monster in 
combat still loses X Stamina. This ability doesn’t apply when the 
investigator fails his Combat check against the monster. 
Phase Summary
The phases of the turn are as follows:
Phase III: Arkham Encounters
Phase IV: Other World Encounters
During Upkeep, players perform any upkeep actions that are 
required of them from turn to turn. This can include collecting 
their pay, making payments on loans, refreshing their equip-
ment, and adjusting their skill sliders.
During Movement, investigators in Arkham move according to 
their current Speed value. Investigators in Other Worlds advance 
to the next area of the Other World, returning to Arkham if they 
were already in the second area of the Other World. 
During Arkham Encounters, any investigator in a location 
without a gate draws one location card from the location deck 
for that neighborhood and follows the instructions on it. Usually, 
Arkham encounters involve a skill check. 
During Other World Encounters, any investigator in an Other 
World draws cards from the gate deck until he gets a gate card 
matching the encounter symbol of the Other World he’s in, then 
follows the instructions on it. Like Arkham encounters, Other 
World encounters often involve skill checks.
During Mythos, the first player draws 1 Mythos card and 
resolves it. First, one or more new monsters appear in Arkham, 
sometimes along with a new gate, and a Clue token will usually 
be placed as well. Next, some of the monsters on the board may 
move through the city. Finally, the special effects of the Mythos 
card take place, which can cause the rules of the game to 
change, either momentarily or for multiple turns.
Investigators are often called upon to perform skill checks in 
order to avoid harm or gain advantages. These skill checks list 
the skill to be used, which determines the number of dice the 
player rolls for the check; the modifier to the check, which may 
provide a bonus or penalty to the number of dice the player rolls; 
and the difficulty, which determines the number of successes the 
player must roll to pass the check (die results of 5 and 6 count 
as successes).
Special Skill Checks
There are four special types of skill checks that players should be 
aware of: Evade checks, Horror checks, Combat checks, and 
Spell checks. Each of these special skill checks use the value of 
one of the six basic skills. Bonuses to the skill that a special 
check uses apply to the special check as well. However, bonuses 
to special checks cannot be used when making normal checks.
Evade checks are based on Sneak (see “Evading Monsters”, pg. 13).
Combat checks are based on Fight (see “Fight”, pg. 14).
Horror checks are based on Will (see “Horror Check”, pg. 14).
Spell checks are based on Lore (see “Casting Spells”, pg. 15).
Too Many Gates
If too many gates are open at once, the Ancient One can imme-
diately awaken.
The Ancient One Awakens at:
	
1–2	
8 Open Gates
	
3–4	
7 Open Gates
	
5–6	
6 Open Gates
	
7–8	
5 Open Gates
Very Important: If the Ancient One awakens this way, fill 
the doom track with doom tokens before proceeding to the 
final battle!
Monster Limit
The number of monsters allowed on the board at one time is 
limited by the number of players. Any monsters that would be 
placed on the board beyond this limit are instead placed in the 
Outskirts.
Monster Limit = (Number of Players) + 3
Important: If the terror level reaches 10, Arkham is overrun, 
which means that the monster limit is removed for the rest of the 
game.
Monsters in the Outskirts
If adding a monster to the board would bring the total number of 
monsters in Arkham above the monster limit, then the monster 
is placed in the Outskirts instead. Monsters in the Outskirts remain 
there until the Outskirts becomes too full, as shown below:
Number of Players	
Maximum Monsters in Outskirts
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
When the number of monsters in the Outskirts of Arkham 
exceeds this limit, place all of those monsters back in the cup 
and raise the terror level by 1.
Terror Level Summary
To summarize the effects of the terror level:
For every step the terror level increases, return one Ally at ran-
dom from the Ally deck to the box.
Additionally, the following events happen when a certain ter-
ror level is reached:
Terror Level	
Event
	
The General Store closes.
	
The Curiositie Shoppe closes.
	
Ye Olde Magick Shoppe closes.
	
Arkham is overrun (no monster limit and 
	
	
add one doom token).
Sanity
Skills
Spells
Stamina
Unique Items