Learn to Play

Welcome to Arkham!
The year is 1926, and it is the height of the Roaring Twenties. Flappers dance till dawn 
in smoke-filled speakeasies, drinking alcohol supplied by rum runners and the mob. It’s a 
celebration to end all celebrations in the aftermath of the War to End All Wars.
Yet a dark shadow grows in the city of Arkham. Alien entities known as Ancient Ones 
lurk in the emptiness beyond space and time, writhing at the thresholds between worlds. 
Occult rituals must be stopped and alien creatures destroyed before the Ancient Ones 
make our world their ruined dominion.
Only a handful of investigators stand against the Arkham Horror. Will they prevail?
Arkham Horror is a board game of pulp action and horror for one to six players, 
playable in two to three hours. The game is set in the fictional town of Arkham, 
Massachusetts, made famous by H.P. Lovecraft in his writings about the 
Cthulhu mythos.
Game Overview
Terrible creatures from beyond time and space threaten the city of Arkham. The 
players must join forces to beat back the approaching doom. If left unchecked, 
these ancient evils will rise up and destroy not only Arkham, but the entire world.
Arkham Horror is a cooperative game. All players are on the same team and win 
or lose the game together. Each player controls an intrepid investigator—one of 
the unlikely few who have become aware of the growing threat to our world. The 
investigators explore the city, encountering places, people, and creatures both 
mundane and supernatural. Through these adventures, the investigators hope to gain 
the clues and resources needed to confront and ultimately thwart the Ancient Ones.
Learning How to Play
This Learn to Play booklet is designed to teach new players how to play Arkham 
Horror. To make your first game easier, this booklet omits some of the more 
complex rules and game interactions. The Rules Reference contains the complete 
rules of the game and addresses all exceptions that are not addressed here. Questions 
that arise during play are best answered by the Rules Reference.
Sidebars
Sidebars like this one appear throughout 
this booklet to provide context for 
rules, visual diagrams, strategy tips, or 
additional narrative.

6 Reference Cards
Components
Rules Reference
12 Map Tiles 
5 Neighborhoods 
7 Streets
4 Scenario Sheets
12 Investigator Sheets 
With matching token and plastic stand
32 Headline Cards
40 Archive Cards
36 Anomaly Cards
96 Event Cards
72 Encounter Cards
12 Ally Cards
28 Item Cards
10 Spell Cards
26 Special Cards
37 Starting Cards
12 Condition Cards
62 Monster Cards
48 Clue/Doom 
42 Damage Tokens 
36 “1 damage” 
6 “3 damage”
42 Horror Tokens 
36 “1 horror” 
6 “3 horror”
40 Money Tokens 
31 “1 dollar” 
6 “5 dollar”
24 Remnant 
30 Focus Tokens 
6 for each skill
5 Anomaly 
18 Mythos Tokens
10 Marker Tokens
6 Activation 
6 Dice
Event Deck Holder 
Assemble as shown
Event and encounter cards have the same backs. Don’t sort until setup.
1. Action PhAse
You perform up to two actions. (You can perform 
each action no more than once per round. While 
engaged with a monster, you can only focus, 
attack, or evade.)
2. Monster PhAse
1. Each ready monster activates, usually by 
moving. (A monster that moves into your 
space engages you.)
2. Each engaged monster deals damage and 
horror to the investigator it is engaged with.
3. Each exhausted monster readies.
3. encounter PhAse
You draw and resolve an encounter matching your 
space (unless you are engaged with a monster).
4. Mythos PhAse
You draw two tokens from the mythos cup and 
resolve their effects one at a time. (All investigators 
do this in player order.)
Outbreak
Windows are shut, curtains drawn, doors 
locked. Citizens hurry through the streets 
casting glances over their shoulders. A sinister 
unease gathers in the city, lurking on the 
rooftops and pooling in every shadow. As 
dread mounts, people and animals react in 
unpredictable ways, fleeing or lashing out 
at those around them. And with each new 
outbreak of fear and violence, the Ancient One 
grows stronger...
If a space has four or more doom, 
remove three doom from that space. 
Then place one doom in each other 
space in that neighborhood and one 
doom on the scenario sheet.
The Mechanic
Daniela Reyes
Reckoning—Roll one die. 
On a 1, your debt has come 
due; flip this card. (This die 
roll is not a test.)
(Do not look at the back of this card 
until you are instructed to do so.)
 Dark Pact
While resolving a test, only 6s 
count as successes.
After you pass a test, 
If you would become blessed, 
Cursed
Hooded Stalker
engage lowest .
Robed Figure
Spawn at unstable space.
Patrol—Move toward unstable 
space. Engage highest .
Will
Strength
Observation
Influence
Love For the Job—After you perform a 
gather resources action, you may focus 
one skill of your choice.
“You got a job that needs doing, 
The MeChaniC
daniela reyes
The Story So Far...
At the center of infinity slumbers 
Azathoth, lulled to sleep by the ceaseless 
piping of accursed flutes. Yet some 
mortals would seek to draw the infinite 
power and calamity of the Blind Idiot 
God to them, and thereby doom all of 
humanity…
Starting Space
Train Station
Reckoning
For each cultist monster, place 
one doom in its space. (If it’s in 
a street space, place the doom in 
an adjacent neighborhood space 
instead.)
Rules Reference

Setup
To set up the game, follow these steps in order:
1.	 Choose Scenario
As a group, choose one of the available scenario sheets. For your first game, we 
recommend “Approach of Azathoth.” Place that sheet in the play area. Return all 
other scenario sheets to the game box.
2.	 Prepare Board and Encounters
Arrange the neighborhood and street tiles as shown on the back of the scenario sheet. 
Each street tile has an icon indicating its type. Use tiles with the indicated icons.
Shuffle the encounter cards separately to create the encounter decks. Use only the 
steet cards and the neighborhood cards that correspond to the neighborhoods used 
in the current scenario—for “Approach of Azathoth,” use Downtown, Easttown, 
Merchant District, Northside, and Rivertown. There are exactly eight cards in each 
of these decks. Be careful not to accidentally include any event cards (see step 
three). Return all other neighborhood cards to the game box.
Scenario Sheet
Neighborhood Decks
The Streets Deck
The Story So Far...
At the center of infinity slumbers 
Azathoth, lulled to sleep by the ceaseless 
piping of accursed flutes. Yet some 
mortals would seek to draw the infinite 
power and calamity of the Blind Idiot 
God to them, and thereby doom all of 
humanity…
Starting Space
Train Station
Reckoning
For each cultist monster, place 
one doom in its space. (If it’s in 
a street space, place the doom in 
an adjacent neighborhood space 
instead.)
Monster Deck
Abyssal servant, eyeless watcher, high 
priest, hooded stalker x2, occult 
ritualist x2, robed figure x3, swift 
byakhee, and all hound of Tindalos 
monsters
Mythos Cup
, , , , , , , , , 
, , and three blanks
Finalize Setup
Add cards 2 and 3 to the codex.
Create the anomaly deck using the 
“Temporal Fissure” cards.
Robed FiguRe
doom Token
map key
meRchanT 
disTRicT
downTown
noRThside
RiveRTown
easTTown

3.	 Prepare Event Deck
Each scenario has a unique deck of event cards that correspond to the five 
neighborhoods in that scenario. Event cards are kept in a single deck despite not 
sharing the same card back.
There is an identifying label along the bottom-left of each event card that indicates 
which scenario that card belongs to (see sidebar). Take the 24 event cards for the 
“Approach of Azathoth” scenario, shuffle them, and place them facedown in the 
event deck holder.
Return the event cards for the other scenarios to the game box.
4.	 Create Monster Deck
Gather the monster cards indicated in the “Monster Deck” section on the back of 
the scenario sheet. Return all other monster cards to the game box.
Place the starting monsters as indicated on the back of the scenario sheet—for 
“Approach of Azathoth” place one robed figure on Independence Square and a second 
robed figure on the Black Cave.
Then, shuffle the remaining cards to form the monster deck. Place it ready side up 
near the board.
5.	 Create Mythos Cup
The mythos cup is an opaque container (such as a dice bag, a bowl, or the lid of the 
game box) from which mythos tokens will be drawn at random. You will need to 
provide your own mythos cup.
Gather the mythos tokens in the quantities indicated on the back of the scenario sheet 
and put them into the mythos cup. Return the other mythos tokens to the game box.
Event cards have card backs that are 
identical to neighborhood cards. They 
can be differentiated from neighborhood 
cards by the clue () icon in the top-left 
corner and the scenario name along the 
bottom of the card.
Place the monsters in the 
indicated spaces ready 
side up (the side with the 
larger art showing).
Different Card Backs
The cards in the event and monster decks 
have different card backs, so you can 
easily tell what card is on top of the deck.
After you shuffle a set of event or 
monster cards, cut the deck so the top 
card is randomized.
Mythos Tokens
Event Deck Holder
The event deck holder keeps the 
event deck at an angle to allow you 
to more easily draw cards from both 
the top and bottom of the deck.
Event Encounter (Approach of Azathoth)
1/24
sound and look around for the source (). If you 
pass, you see a figure with cloven hooves slip out the 
door; you gain one clue from your neighborhood.
Police Station
“They’re a strange lot,” says Sheriff Engle. “We 
rounded ‘em up by the river.” You interrogate the 
robed figures in the holding cell (). If you pass, 
they won’t talk, but you notice a symbol on their 
robes, a swirling ribbon threaded through a circle; 
you gain one clue from your neighborhood.
Velma’s Diner
“Slice of pie, hon?” offers Velma. You or an ally 
recovers two health. Velma returns a moment later. 
“Slice of pie, hon?” You may spend $1 to order 
another. If you do, the event repeats in a loop until 
you leave; you or an ally recovers two health and 
you gain one clue from your neighborhood.
Robed Figure
Spawn at unstable space.
Patrol—Move toward unstable 
space. Engage highest .

6.	 Create Headline Deck
Shuffle the headline cards and deal 13 of them into a facedown deck. These 13 cards 
are the headline deck. Return the other headline cards to the game box.
7.	 Prepare Assets and Display
Separately shuffle the item cards, ally cards, and spell cards to form three decks and 
place them in the play area. Keep the special cards and condition cards sorted and 
place them off to the side (see the sidebar for more information).
Take the top five cards of the item deck and place them in a faceup row next to the 
item deck. This row of cards is called the display. The items in the display can be 
gained or bought by having encounters during the game. Certain locations—such 
as the general store—allow you to buy items from the display by spending money.
8.	 Prepare Token Pools
Separate all tokens by type and keep them nearby for easy access along with the dice.
9.	 Prepare the Archive
The archive is a collection of cards that are used by scenarios to create an evolving 
narrative during the game. Archive cards have an assortment of different fronts and 
backs, but all share a large card number in the top-left corner of the card. Keep all 
archive cards in a single stack in numerical order until you are instructed to use them.
Headline Cards
Special cards can be items, allies, spells, 
or talents, but all share the same card 
back shown above. Conditions are 
double-sided. You will be instructed to 
find specific special or condition cards 
by name, so keep each deck organized 
alphabetically.
Each archive card has a number in 
the top-left corner of the front of the 
card. Because archive cards can have 
many different appearances, these card 
numbers are the best way to identify 
archive cards.
The side of the card with the number in 
the top-left corner is the front.
Allies
Spells
Items
The Display
Clue/Doom Tokens
Damage Tokens
Horror Tokens
Money Tokens
Remnant Tokens
Focus Tokens
Headline
Place two doom in your space 
unless you gain a dark pact condition.
(If you are in a street space, place the 
doom in an adjacent neighborhood 
space instead.)
Opinion: Our choices have placed us on 
this path • New civic engagement required 
• Advertiser deserves its share of blame
by Doyle Jefferies, editor in chief. Arkham, Mass.
WE HAVE NO ONE TO 
BLAME BUT OURSELVES
You get +2  as part 
of an attack action.
Item — Common Weapon
.38 Revolver
Action: An investigator or 
ally in your space recovers one 
health. (You are an investigator 
in your space.)
Item — Common
First Aid Kit
You get +5 
of an attack
Each 6 you ro
of an attack act
as two suc
Item — Commo
Shotg
The day dawns the color of hammered lead, 
with a stillness and chill that settles over the 
gabled roofs of Arkham and lingers. As you 
go through your morning routine, you cannot 
shake the feeling of having done it before—the 
same breakfast, the same headlines in the 
newspaper warning of disappearances and odd 
goings-on. And a note, in your handwriting, 
reading “The Daemon Sultan approaches. Meet 
at the train station.”
When there are three or more clues on the 
scenario sheet, add card 4 to the codex. 
(Do not remove this card from the codex.)
Wh
Déjà Vu
AnomAlies
People walk with their heads down, shoulders 
hunched. With each new oddity, it becomes 
harder to pretend that nothing is wrong. But 
the vanishings, the strange lights, the sightings 
of inhuman creatures, they are not something 
that can be ignored…at least, not for long.
When a space has three doom or a 
neighborhood has a total of five doom, 
place an anomaly in that neighborhood.
If additional doom would be placed in 
a neighborhood with an anomaly, place 
that doom on the scenario sheet instead
Outbreak
Windows are shut, curtains drawn, doors 
locked. Citizens hurry through the streets 
casting glances over their shoulders. A sinister 
unease gathers in the city, lurking on the 
rooftops and pooling in every shadow. As 
dread mounts, people and animals react in 
unpredictable ways, fleeing or lashing out 
at those around them. And with each new 
outbreak of fear and violence, the Ancient One 
rows stronger...

10.	Choose Investigator(s)
Each player chooses one of the investigator sheets. There are many investigators, 
and each one has unique abilities and skills.
Each player takes their respective investigator token (inserted into a plastic stand), 
one activation token, and one reference card. As a group, choose one player to be the 
leader. That player takes the leader activation token (the one with the flashlight on 
it) as their activation token. Players are hereafter referred to as “investigators.”
Starting Possessions—Each investigator gains the cards and money tokens 
indicated in the “Starting Possessions” section on the back of their sheet. 
Investigator starting cards are easily identified by that investigator’s portrait on the 
back of the card (see sidebar). Some investigators must choose between two or more 
of their possessions. You may review your options before making a decision. Return 
the unchosen cards and all unused investigator starting cards to the game box.
Starting Space—Place all of the investigator tokens in the starting space indicated 
on the scenario sheet. The starting space for the “Approach of Azathoth” scenario is 
the Train Station in Northside.
11.	Final Preparations
With everything in place, all that remains is to set up the clues and doom that await 
the investigators in the coming story.
Spawn Starting Clues—Draw the top three cards of the event deck one at a 
time. For each card, place one clue token in the central area of its corresponding 
neighborhood tile. Then, add that card to its corresponding neighborhood deck by 
taking the top two cards of that deck, shuffling all three cards together, and placing 
them on top of that deck.
Place Starting Doom—Place one doom token on each space indicated on the back 
of the scenario sheet. (For “Approach of Azathoth,” these are Arkham Advertiser, 
Independence Square, Velma’s Diner, the Unvisited Isle, and the Black Cave.)
Spread Doom Once—Draw the bottom card of the event deck and discard it 
faceup next to the deck. Place one doom token in each space that has a doom icon 
next to its name on the card (see sidebar).
Final Scenario Setup—Resolve any effects in the “Finalize Setup” section on the 
back of the scenario sheet. (For “Approach of Azathoth,” take cards #2 and #3 from 
the archive and place them faceup next to the scenario sheet; this area is known as 
the codex. Create the anomaly deck by shuffling the “Temporal Fissure” anomaly 
cards together and placing them in the play area. Return all other anomaly cards to 
the game box.) Cards in the codex provide scenario-specific rules and narrative. 
The codex is explained in detail later. For now, read those cards aloud in order, 
starting with the front of card #2 (the side with the number on it).
Investigator Roles
Each investigator has one or two roles 
described on the back of their sheet. These 
roles offer advice about the strengths and 
effective strategies for that investigator and 
have no mechanical effect.
We recommend choosing at least one 
mystic and one guardian for your first 
game, but feel free to experiment and have 
fun with different combinations!
An investigator’s starting cards feature 
their character portrait, name, and 
occupation on the back of the card.
Doom Icon Next to “Hibb’s Roadhouse”
The Waitress
Agnes Baker
The Haunted
Calvin Wright
The Mechanic
Daniela Reyes
sound and look around for the source (). If you 
pass you see a figure with cloven hooves slip out the
Will
Strength
Observation
Influence
Love For the Job—After you perform a 
gather resources action, you may focus 
one skill of your choice.
“You got a job that needs doing, 
The MeChaniC
daniela reyes
Player actions
You can perform each action no more 
than once per round.
  Move: Move up to two spaces. Spend up to 
$2 to move that many additional spaces. 
  Gather Resources: Gain $1.
  *Focus: Focus one skill of your choice.
  Ward: Test  to remove doom equal to your 
test result from your space. If you remove two 
or more, you gain one remnant.
  *Attack: Engage one monster in your space. 
Test  to deal damage equal to your test 
result (the number of successes rolled).
  *Evade: Test  to disengage and exhaust 
monsters equal to your test result. If you 
evade all, perform one additional action.
  Research: Test  to place clues equal to 
your test result on the scenario sheet.
  Trade: Exchange any number of possessions 
with other investigators in your space.
  Some components have Actions: on them.
*While engaged with a monster, you 
can only focus, attack, or evade.
An Anomaly Encounter Card
3
0-1
Temporal Fissure
You learn fascinating and helpful things from 
an obscure book (–2). If you pass, the book 
whispers secrets of the universe to you; you 
remove three doom from your space and gain 
one remnant. If you fail, the messages in the 
writing are haunting; you become cursed.
Your vision blurs. Buildings fall. Cities quake and 
burn. You clutch your head and refocus (). If 
you pass, it all vanishes like evaporating dew; you 
remove one doom from your space. If you fail, 
bodies fall through space and your headache and 
nausea worsen; you suffer one horror.
A one-armed beggar in a dirty silver military 
uniform rattles his tin at you and babbles about the 
moon. You may spend $2 to drop a few coins in his 
cup. If you do, he warns you about the “Nemesis 
Moon” that “heralds the Daemon Sultan;” remove 
one doom from any space in your neighborhood.

Playing the Game
Arkham Horror is played over a number of rounds; each round consists of four phases:
1.	 Action Phase—During the action phase, investigators take turns performing up 
to two actions each (such as moving or attacking monsters).
2.	 Monster Phase—During the monster phase, monsters activate, attack 
investigators they are engaged with, or ready if they were previously exhausted.
3.	 Encounter Phase—During the encounter phase, investigators take turns 
resolving an encounter. Each encounter tells a short narrative about what the 
investigator experiences in their location.
4.	 Mythos Phase—During the mythos phase, each investigator draws two tokens 
that can cause clues, monsters, and doom to spread across Arkham.
After the mythos phase, the game continues to a new round starting again with 
the action phase. Each phase is described in more detail on the following pages.
Winning the Game
At the start of the game, it is not obvious how you win. You should begin by 
investigating every lead and studying the clues to unravel the scenario’s mystery and 
discover a way to fight back against the encroaching doom.
The cards in the codex (see sidebar) provide you with objectives that help you 
progress the scenario. The first objective in “Approach of Azathoth” on card #3 is 
to have three clues on the scenario sheet. After you complete your first objective, a 
card is added to the codex that provides you with a new objective. Continuing to 
complete these objectives eventually leads you to victory.
Researching Clues
The “Approach of Azathoth” scenario begins with three clues that are spread 
throughout neighborhoods on the board. By moving to any spaces in those 
neighborhoods and having encounters (which you will learn about later), you are 
able to gather those clues. However, it may take a few encounters to find them.
After gathering the clues, use the research action (which you will also learn about 
later) to research your findings. This is how you place the clues you gathered onto 
the scenario sheet­ to make progress toward your first goal. 
Warding Doom
The cards in the codex also have conditions under which the eldritch forces working 
against you can hinder your progress. In “Approach to Azathoth,” card #3 is flipped 
over if there are ever three or more doom on the scenario sheet. You can remove doom 
from the board to prevent this by using the ward action (which is described later). 
You must not become too obsessed with your investigation because if doom is left 
unchecked, it can spread across Arkham and quickly overwhelm the entire city, 
causing you to lose the game. Balancing your approach of researching clues to 
achieve your goals while also warding off doom is your key to saving Arkham from 
ultimate peril!
Tracking Your Turns
During the action phase and encounter 
phase, investigators can take their turns 
in any order.
After you perform your two actions, flip 
your token to its inactive side.
Active Inactive
After you resolve your encounter, flip 
your token back to the active side.
The Codex
The codex is the collection of cards 
placed in the play area next to the 
scenario sheet. These cards add scenario-
specific goals and rules to the game. 
Rules on these cards are in effect until 
the card is removed from the codex.
Many cards show a number of clues you 
need to research or a number of doom 
you want to prevent from being placed. 
These show a clue or doom token next to 
the text to help you quickly spot them.
goings-on. And a note, in your handwriting, 
reading “The Daemon Sultan approaches. Meet 
at the train station.”
When there are three or more clues on the 
scenario sheet, add card 4 to the codex. 
(Do not remove this card from the codex.)
When there is three or more doom on the 
scenario sheet, flip this card.

Core Concepts
Before you learn more about the phases of the game, it is important that you 
understand some core concepts that are commonly referenced throughout the game.
Skill Tests
A skill test (or “test”) represents a physical, mental, or social challenge you are facing. 
Cards instruct you to resolve tests, either by directly instructing you to or by simply 
showing a skill icon in parentheses (as shown in the first sentence of the sidebar).
To resolve a test, roll a number of dice equal to the value shown next to the skill 
on your investigator sheet. This value can be modified up or down by various game 
effects, or by a test modifier next to the test declaration (such as “–1”). Even if the 
modifier reduces your skill value to zero, you roll a minimum of one die.
Each five or six you roll is a success. If you roll at least one success, you pass the 
test. If you roll zero successes, you fail the test. The total number of successes you 
rolled is called your test result, which may be referenced by effects on the card.
After passing or failing a test, follow the card’s instructions for the matching result. 
If a matching results is not listed, the card has no further effect.
Modifying Tests
Some components allow you to reroll dice, manipulate dice, or directly add 
successes to your test result. For example, you can spend a clue token or focus 
token to reroll one die. These occur after your initial roll but before your final 
result is determined.
Damage and Horror
Both your physical and mental endurance will be challenged on the streets of 
Arkham. When you suffer damage or horror, place that many damage or horror 
tokens on your investigator sheet, respectively. 
Your investigator sheet shows your health and sanity values (see sidebar). If you 
have damage greater than or equal to your health or horror greater than or equal to 
your sanity, you are defeated.
When you recover health or sanity, you remove that many damage or horror tokens 
from your sheet, respectively.
Being Defeated
When you are defeated, remove your investigator token from the board and discard 
all of your cards and tokens.
Not only do you lose your investigator and equipment, the city of Arkham suffers 
as well. When you are defeated, you must place one doom on the scenario sheet.
You will need to select a new investigator to control. Return your defeated 
investigator sheet and token to the box and choose a new investigator that has not 
been played yet during this game.
As in setup, gather your new investigator sheet, investigator token, and unique 
starting possessions. 
After the mythos phase is over, place your investigator token at the starting space 
(the Train Station for “Approach of Azathoth”). You are ready to continue the 
investigation.
Example Test
Dexter Drake is instructed to test lore 
(). He has a lore of four, so he rolls four 
dice and gets the following results.
He has rolled a single success (the five). 
One success is enough to pass the test, 
but he was hoping for more.
Dexter’s magical gift ability allows him 
to reroll one or all of his dice. He doesn’t 
want to reroll the five, so he decides to 
reroll only one of the dice.
After the reroll, Dexter has rolled both a 
five and a six, a total of two successes. He 
has passed this test.
Health and Sanity
Your health and sanity values are shown 
on your investigator sheet.
Health Sanity
To recover health and sanity, try having 
encounters at locations with icons 
matching those on your sheet, such as 
Velma’s Diner.
While Defeated
Between your old investigator being 
defeated and your new one being placed, 
you do not have encounters and are 
unaffected by headline cards; you still 
draw two mythos tokens during the 
mythos phase as normal. (The mythos 
phase is explained later.)
Magical Gift—Once per round, while 
resolving a  test, you may reroll one or 
all of your dice.
“You don’t want to see real magic, kid. 
Nobody does.”
 

Action Phase
During the action phase, investigators move around the city, gathering resources 
and fighting off the encroaching evils. Each investigator takes one turn. These turns 
can be taken in an order of their choice.
During your turn, you perform up to two of the following actions. You can 
perform each action no more than once per round.
Move Action
Move your investigator token up to two spaces (see sidebar). You may spend money 
to move farther. For each dollar you spend, you move one additional space, up to a 
maximum of two additional spaces.
If you move into a space with a ready monster, that monster engages you. Remove 
the monster card from the board and place it near your investigator sheet. (When a 
monster is engaged with you, it is most helpful to keep its exhausted side up—the 
side shown on the opposite-page sidebar).
Gather Resources Action
When you perform a gather resources action, you gain one dollar.
Focus Action
Choose one skill and gain a focus token that corresponds to that skill. That skill value 
is increased by one for as long as you have the focus token.
Focus tokens can be spent while resolving a test to reroll dice. For each focus token 
you spend, reroll one die, even if the skill being tested does not match the focus token.
You can have, at maximum, one of any given focus token. You have a focus limit 
on your investigator sheet (see sidebar) that indicates how many focus tokens you 
can have at once.
Ward Action
When you perform a ward action, you resolve a lore () test. For each success you 
roll, you may remove one doom from your space. If you remove two or more doom 
with a single ward action, you also gain one remnant (see sidebar).
Map Spaces
Each neighborhood tile features three 
spaces (locations) that are separated 
by white lines. The central area of a 
neighborhood tile is not a space; you 
cannot move into it. Each street tile is a 
single space.
Investigators move to adjacent spaces. 
Daniela can move up to two spaces using 
a move action. For her first movement, 
she moves from Velma’s Diner to the 
adjacent street space.
Remnants
Remnants represent the remains of 
arcane rituals or supernatural creatures. 
You can use remnants to more safely cast 
spells or exchange remnants for money 
during certain encounters at either the 
Arkham Advertiser or the river docks.
Focus Limit
Focus Tokens
Money Token
You got a job that needs doing, 

Attack Action
Choose a monster in your space­—even one engaged with you or another 
investigator in your space—and engage it by placing it near your investigator sheet 
(if it is not there aleady). You resolve a strength () test modified by the monster’s 
attack modifier (see sidebar).
For each success you roll, deal one damage to the monster. Mark this damage by 
placing that many damage tokens on the monster card. These tokens stay with 
the monster when it moves. If the monster has damage greater than or equal to its 
health, you have defeated it. When a monster is defeated, place it on the top of the 
monster deck; if the monster has a remnant () icon, gain one remnant.
Evade Action
When you are engaged with a monster, the actions you can perform are limited (see 
sidebar). To disengage monsters, you can perform an evade action by resolving an 
observation () test modified by the monster’s evade modifier. If you are engaged 
with multiple monsters, you apply only the modifier that results in you rolling the 
fewest dice.
For each success you roll, you disengage and exhaust one monster by placing 
it in your space on the board with its exhausted side up. If you roll enough 
successes to evade all of the monsters you were engaged with, you may perform one 
additional action.
Research Action
Most scenarios require you to get a certain number of clues onto the scenario sheet. 
The research action is the main way of doing this.
When you perform this action, resolve an observation () test. For each success you 
roll, you may place one of your clues on the scenario sheet.
Trade Action
When you perform a trade action, you and all other investigators in your space may 
exchange any number of allies, items, spells, money, clues, and/or remnants with 
one another. Health, sanity, talents, and conditions cannot normally be traded.
Component Actions
In addition to the above actions, some components allow you to perform unique 
actions that are described on those components. Each component action is 
preceded by the word “action” in bold.
Delayed
During the game, you might become delayed. When you are delayed, tip your 
investigator token on its side. At the start of your turn during the next action phase, 
you stand up your token, but you can perform only a single action that turn.
Component Action of an Item Card
Monster Cards
a.	Health—How much damage is 
required to defeat the monster.
b.	Attack Modifier—This modifier affects 
the test during an attack action.
c.	Evade Modifier—This modifier affects 
the test during an evade action.
d.	Remnant—You gain one remnant for 
defeating a monster that has this icon.
While Engaged
While you are engaged with a monster, 
you can perform only the focus, attack, 
and evade actions. You cannot resolve an 
encounter.
“All the evil in the universe was 
concentrated in their lean, hungry 
bodies.” —The Hounds of Tindalos, 
Frank Belknap Long
Ravenous Predator
Monster — Hound of Tindalos
d
Action: An investigator or 
ally in your space recovers one 
health. (You are an investigator 
in your space.)
Item — Common
First Aid Kit
Delayed Investigator

Monster Phase
The maligned forces of the mythos lurk in every corner of Arkham, threatening the 
investigators and furthering their own ends. During the monster phase, monsters 
move, attack, and advance their own twisted agendas.
Monster States
A monster can either be ready, exhausted, or engaged based on where it is 
physically located and what side of the card is showing.
•	 Ready—Monsters that are ready are actively seeking out investigators and are 
prepared to move or attack. A monster that is in a space on the board with its 
ready side showing (see sidebar) is ready.
If a ready monster is in the same space as an investigator (for any reason), 
the monster engages that investigator. Monsters that are exhausted or already 
engaged do not engage investigators in their spaces.
•	 Exhausted—Monsters that are exhausted are distracted or otherwise 
encumbered, usually due to being evaded by an investigator. A monster that is 
in a space with its exhausted side up is exhausted.
An exhausted monster cannot move, attack, or engage investigators.
•	 Engaged—Monsters that are engaged have found an investigator and are about 
to attack. A monster that is placed next to an investigator’s sheet is engaged with 
that investigator. Engaged monsters should be kept with their exhausted side 
showing so you can more easily see what you are up against.
Most monsters can be engaged with only a single investigator at a time. There is 
no limit to the number of monsters an investigator can be engaged with.
Steps of the Monster Phase
The monster phase is resolved in three steps.
1.	 Ready monsters activate—Each ready monster activates according to its 
activation text:
•	 Hunter—Monsters with hunter move toward and engage specific 
investigators, such as the investigator with the “lowest ” or “most clues.”
•	 Patrol—Monsters with patrol move toward locations instead of investigators, 
such as the space with the “most doom” or the “unstable space” (see below).
•	 Lurker—Monsters with lurker do not move. Instead, they cause some other 
negative effect to occur, such as placing doom on the board.
When a monster moves, it moves a number of spaces up to its speed, unless the 
text specifies that it “moves directly,” in which case it is placed in the specified 
space, regardless of how far away it is. Remember that when a monster enters an 
investigator’s space, it stops moving and engages that investigator.
The unstable space is a beacon for paranormal activity. The space marked with a 
doom () icon on the top event card in the discard pile is the unstable space.
2.	 Engaged monsters attack—Each monster that is engaged with an investigator 
deals damage and horror to the investigator it is engaged with equal to the number 
of damage and horror icons at the bottom of the monster’s card (see sidebar).
3.	 Exhausted monsters ready—Each exhausted monster readies; flip the card 
ready side up. The monster did not move or attack this round, but it is ready to 
do so next round. Since this monster is now ready, it engages an investigator if 
there is one in its space.
While Engaged
While you are engaged with one or 
more monsters, you can perform only 
the attack, evade, and focus actions and 
you will not get an encounter during the 
encounter phase.
Monster Cards
a.	Spawn Text—This text indicates what 
space the monster spawns in.
b.	Activation Text—This text indicates 
how the monster activates.
c.	Speed—This indicates how far the 
monster moves during its activation.
d.	Damage and Horror—The amount of 
damage and horror this monster deals.
Ready Side
Exhausted Side
-0
Reward—After you defeat this 
monster as part of an attack 
action, you may disengage all 
monsters and move up to 
three spaces.
-0
Reward—After you defeat this 
monster as part of an attack 
action, you may disengage all 
monsters and move up to 
three spaces.
d

Encounter Phase
During the encounter phase, each investigator resolves a short narrative about what 
they are doing at their current location. These encounters can have a wide variety 
of effects based on the investigator’s choices and test results. Investigators take turns 
resolving encounters in an order of their choice.
During your turn, you draw and resolve an encounter card unless you are engaged 
with a monster. While engaged, you do not get to have an encounter.
If you are in a neighborhood space, draw a card from the matching neighborhood 
encounter deck and resolve the encounter text matching the name of the space you 
are in. If you are in a street space, draw a card from the street deck and resolve the 
encounter matching the type of street you are in:
Encounter Benefits
Neighborhood spaces have icons that indicate what encounters in that space are 
likely to involve.
The icons to the left of the arrow indicate the skills that are likely to be tested or 
the type of payment you might be asked to make. The icons to the right of the 
arrow indicate the expected benefits of the encounter. A reference for these icons is 
provided on the back of the rules reference.
Finishing the Encounter 
After you finish resolving the effects of an encounter, discard that card to the bottom 
of the deck it was drawn from unless that card is an event card (see sidebar).
After resolving an encounter on an event card, if you gained a clue from your 
neighborhood, discard that card faceup to the event card discard pile. If you did 
not gain a clue, add it back to the neighborhood by taking the top two cards of the 
corresponding neighborhood deck, shuffling them together with the event card, and 
placing them all back on top of that deck.
Reading Encounters
If you are playing with multiple players, 
have someone else read your encounter 
aloud to you. The reader should not 
reveal the results of a test or a choice 
until the test has been resolved or the 
choice has been made. This increases the 
suspense of every decision!
Residential Street
Bridge Street
Scenic Street
The icons above “General Store” indicate that you are likely to be asked to spend 
money, and that you will receive common items for doing so.
Gaining Cards by Name
If an effect instructs you to gain a card by 
name in all caps, find that card by name 
in the special cards or conditions decks.
Conditions are double-sided. The 
blessed and cursed conditions are 
on opposite sides of the same card. 
The dark pact condition has hidden 
information on the back. When you gain 
it, draw a random copy without looking 
at the back.
Event Cards
Encounters on event cards represent 
chances to gain clues to aid in the 
investigation. If you fail to gain the clue 
from the encounter, it is added back to the 
deck to give you another shot at it later.
Clue tokens are necessary to advancing most scenarios. Each clue token on 
a neighborhood indicates that there is an event card in the top three cards 
of that neighborhood’s deck that will give you a shot at gaining that clue.
In addition to advancing the investigation, during a test, a clue can be 
discarded to reroll one die.
La Bella Luna
The Clover Club beneath La Bella Luna is the 
best place to gamble away your hard-earned cash. 
“Pass-line bet for our friend here,” says the croupier. 
“Roll ‘em!” Roll two dice. On a 7 or 11, you double 
your bet; you gain $5. On a 2, 3, or 12, you lose the 
bet and tip out the croupier; you discard $3.
Independence Square
“You must allow me to read your future!” insists 
the fortune teller Anna Kaslow. She flips several 
tarot cards as you sit. “The darkness that falls over 
Arkham is watching you closely. Be ready to act. 
Seize any opportunity.” She gives you a card to 
keep as a talisman. You gain the ace of rods.
Arkham Asylum
You check yourself into the asylum. You recover two 
sanity. You befriend one of the other patients, who 
mumbles about cursed oaths and powers beyond 
the mortal. You decide to sneak him out (). If 
you pass, daniel chesterfield joins you. If you 
fail, you are caught and forced to leave.
1/8
generaL store

Mythos Phase
During the mythos phase, each investigator takes a turn drawing tokens from the 
mythos cup, starting with the leader and proceeding around the table clockwise. On 
your turn, draw two tokens from the mythos cup, one at a time, and resolve their 
effects. After you have drawn your tokens, do not return them to the cup.
Spread Doom ()—Spread doom once by discarding the bottom card of the event 
deck faceup and placing one doom token in the location on that card marked with 
a doom () icon.
The more doom that builds up on the board, the worse off Arkham will be. Cards 
in the codex will indicate what terrible things happen as doom accrues.
Spawn Monster ()—Spawn one monster by drawing the bottom card of the 
monster deck and placing it on the board as instructed by its spawn text. If the 
spawn text refers to a monster’s prey, that is the investigator that it moves toward 
when activating.
Read Headline ()—Draw and read the top card of the headline deck. The card 
effects only you unless it specifies otherwise. Then, discard that card to a faceup 
discard pile. If you are instructed to draw a headline card while the deck is empty, 
you must place one doom on the scenario sheet instead.
Spawn Clue ()—Spawn one clue by taking the top card of the event deck and placing 
one clue token in the area in the center of the corresponding neighborhood. Then, take 
that card and the top two cards of the corresponding neighborhood deck, shuffle those 
cards together, and place them on top of the neighborhood deck.
Gate Burst ()—Resolve a gate burst by taking the top card of the event deck 
and placing one doom token in each space of the corresponding neighborhood. 
Then, shuffle that card and the entire event discard pile together, and place them on 
the bottom of the event deck.
Reckoning ()—Resolve the reckoning effects—all effects preceded by the 
reckoning () icon—of all components in play. Usually this will just be the 
reckoning effect of the scenario sheet, but some headlines or other cards might also 
have reckoning effects.
Blank—When you draw this token, nothing happens. You have been afforded a 
most brief respite from the ever-growing dangers of the mythos.
Replenishing the Mythos Cup
When you need to draw tokens but the mythos cup is empty, return all mythos 
tokens being used this game to the cup; then draw from the newly replenished cup.
Adding Mythos Tokens
Some rare game effects instruct you to add tokens to the mythos cup. These tokens 
should be taken from the game box and added to the mythos cup.
Another Round!
After the mythos phase is done, the game 
continues with a new round, starting 
with the action phase. This continues 
until you have won or lost the game.

Additional Rules
There are a few more things you need to know to save Arkham. The next several 
sections describe anomalies and the items, allies, and spells you get along the way.
Items, Allies, and Spells
As you have encounters across Arkham, you will gain allies, spells, and items to help 
you to combat the evils of the mythos. When you gain one of these cards, draw one 
card from the corresponding deck.
If you are instructed to gain a card with a specific trait (like a “common item” or a 
“curio item”), reveal cards from the top of the deck until you reveal a card with the 
indicated trait. Gain that card and shuffle the other revealed cards back into the deck.
The Display
When you gain an item, instead of drawing it from the item deck, you can instead 
choose an item from the display that has the specified traits (if any). After you take 
an item from the display, draw a new item to replace it.
If you are instructed to buy items from the display, you must spend an amount of 
money equal to the item’s value (see sidebar) to take the item.
Hands
While resolving a test, you can use any number of cards with up to two hand icons 
total (see sidebar). For example, you could use a two-handed shotgun or a one-
handed revolver while attacking, but not both at the same time.
There is no limit to the number of items you can carry. 
Casting Spells
Unlike items and allies, using spells comes with a cost. When using the game effect 
on a spell, you must first suffer horror equal to the number of horror icons on the 
spell card (see sidebar). You may spend remnants instead of suffering horror on a 
one-for-one basis.
Assigning Damage and Horror
Some cards (mainly allies) have health and sanity values just like investigators. 
When you suffer damage or horror, you may instead assign it to one of your cards 
with a health or sanity value by placing the tokens on the card. You cannot assign 
damage to a card that does not have a health value, nor can you assign horror to one 
without a sanity value. When an ally or other asset has damage equal to its health or 
horror greater than or equal to its sanity, you must discard that card.
Sometimes you suffer direct damage or direct horror. Direct damage and direct 
horror cannot be assigned to allies or items. You must suffer it yourself.
Item Cards
a.	Value—The amount of money you 
must spend to buy the item.
b.	Traits—Traits have no inherent effect, 
but encounters or other text might 
refer to an item’s traits.
c.	Hands—The number of hands 
required to use the item during a test.
Magic in the Mythos
Magic in Arkham Horror is an 
unknowable and terrifying force that can 
be bent to your will or turned against 
you and shred your mind.
When you cast a spell, you first suffer 
horror equal to the number of horror 
icons along the bottom of the card.
An Ally Card’s Health and Sanity Values
Items
Spells
Allies
Discarding Cards
When you discard a condition, special 
card, or starting card, return that card to 
its deck.
When you discard an ally card, item 
card, or spell card, place that card on the 
bottom of its respective deck.
action. (The monster s evade 
modifier still applies.)
You get +2  as part 
of an attack action.
Item — Common Weapon
.38 Revolver
die for each clue you have and one 
additional die for each clue in 
your neighborhood.

Anomalies
Anomalies are strange and terrifying occurrences such as gateways to other 
dimensions. These are a result of doom spreading out of control, and are the first 
big sign that you are in trouble!
Anomalies are not used in every scenario, but are used in “Approach of Azathoth.” 
A card summarizing these rules (card #2) is added to the codex if they are in effect.
Placing Anomaly Tokens
When any one space has three doom, place an anomaly token in the central area of 
that neighborhood tile. Likewise, if a neighborhood has a total of five doom, place 
an anomaly in that neighborhood. Do not place multiple anomaly tokens in the 
same neighborhood.
Anomalies and Doom
If doom would be placed in any space of a neighborhood tile that has an anomaly, 
it is placed on the scenario sheet instead, regardless of the number of doom still 
in the neighborhood.
Removing Anomalies
Both the ward action and anomaly encounters allow you to remove doom from 
your space. When you have removed all doom from a neighborhood, the anomaly 
in that neighborhood stabilizes and you remove the anomaly token.
Anomaly Encounters
During your turn of the encounter phase, if you are in a neighborhood with 
an anomaly, you must have an anomaly encounter instead of a normal 
neighborhood encounter (see sidebar). You draw the top card of the anomaly deck 
and resolve the section that corresponds to the amount of doom in your space.
An anomaly token is placed in the 
central area of a neighborhood.
Anomaly Encounter Card
Third Edition Game Design: Nikki Valens
Original Game Design: Richard Launius and Kevin Wilson
Additional Development: Daniel Lovet Clark with Dane Beltrami, 
Pat Harrigan, and Tim Uren
Editing: Adam Baker
Proofreading: Molly Glover with Matt Click
Board Game Manager: Andrew Fischer
Arkham Horror Story Review: Kara Centell-Dunk and Matt Newman
Story Manager: Katrina Ostrander
Graphic Design: WiL Springer and Evan Simonet
Graphic Design Manager: Christopher Hosch
Cover Art: Anders Finer
Map Tile Art: Jokubas Uoginas
Interior Art: Justin Adams, Tommy Arnold, Cristi Balanescu, Tiziano 
Baracchi, Mark Behm, Massimiliano Bertolini, Sara Biddle, Dimitri 
Bielak, Greg Bobrowski, Jon Bosco, Matt Bradbury, Igor Burlakov, 
Joshua Cairós, Mike Capprotti, Chelsea Conlin, Matthew Cowdery, 
Alexandre Dainche, Mauro Dal Bo, Christina Davis, Nick Deligaris, 
Anthony Devine, Nele Diel, Stanislav Dikolenko, Dleoblack, Dual 
Brush Studios, Guillaume Ducos, Nicholas Elias, Alexandr Elichev, 
Melissa Findley, Aurore Folny, Tony Foti, Michele Frigo, Nicholas 
Gregory, Ethan Patrick Harris, Dani Hartel, Ilich Henriquez, Jeff 
Himmelman, Rafal Hrynkiewicz, Clark Huggins, Taylor Ingvarsson, 
Maggie Ivy, Jason Juta, Romana Kendelic, Jeffrey Klein, Sam Lamont, 
Robert Laskey, Chun Lo, Dan Masso, Jesse Mead, Lindsey Messecar, 
Michal Milkowski, Aaron B. Miller, Mark Molnar, Monztre, Reiko 
Murakami, Jake Murray, David Auden Nash, Germán Nóbile, Andrew 
Olson, John Pacer, Chris Peuler, Borja Pindado, Scott Purdy, Chris 
Rallis, Jose Manuel Rey, Roberto Ricci, Brad Rigney, Jordan Saia, Adam 
Schumpert, Stephen Somers, Anna Steinbauer, Caravan Studio, Andreia 
Ugrai, Brian Valenzuela, VIKO, Magali Villeneuve, SC Watson, Owen 
William Weber, Jarreau Wimberly, Darek Zabrocki, Andreas Zafiratos
Art Direction: Jeff Lee Johnson
Managing Art Director: Melissa Shetler
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
Production Management: Jason Beaudoin and Megan Duehn
Visual Creative Director: Brian Schomburg
Senior Project Manager: John Franz-Wichlacz
Senior Manager of Product Development: Chris Gerber
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Publisher: Andrew Navaro
Playtesters: Carolina Blanken, Pieter Blanken, Andrea Dell’Agnese, 
Caterina D’Agostini, Julia Faeta, Crystalyn Flores, Anita Hilberdink, 
Alene Horner, Jason Horner, Julien Horner, Matthew Landis, Emile de 
Maat, Kestrel McCarthy, Michelle McCarthy, Jeremy Rainbow, Kendra 
Rainbow, Jerry Santos, Emiel Speets, Léon Tichelaar, Marjan Tichelaar-
Haug, Luuk Weltevreden, Maree Weltevreden
Special thanks to all of our beta testers!
Credits
3
0-1
Temporal Fissure
You learn fascinating and helpful things from 
an obscure book (–2). If you pass, the book 
whispers secrets of the universe to you; you 
remove three doom from your space and gain 
one remnant. If you fail, the messages in the 
writing are haunting; you become cursed.
Your vision blurs. Buildings fall. Cities quake and 
burn. You clutch your head and refocus (). If 
you pass, it all vanishes like evaporating dew; you 
remove one doom from your space. If you fail, 
bodies fall through space and your headache and 
nausea worsen; you suffer one horror.
A one-armed beggar in a dirty silver military 
uniform rattles his tin at you and babbles about the 
moon. You may spend $2 to drop a few coins in his 
cup. If you do, he warns you about the “Nemesis 
Moon” that “heralds the Daemon Sultan;” remove 
one doom from any space in your neighborhood.