Components
Game object and overview
• 1 Game board
• 4 City boards – assembled from two tiles
• 7 Auction tiles
• 32 Building tiles
• 10 Scoring tiles
• 1 Game round marker
• 4 Extension tiles
• 4 Damage markers
• 4 Screens – assembled from three tiles, in brown, white, orange and black
• 8 Victory point chips
• 60 Equipment cards
• 28 Building cards – 14x level 1, 14x level 2
• 89 Survivors – 20 x red marauders, 45 x green workers, 10 x blue soldiers, 10 x yellow engineers, 
4 x purple leaders
• 20 Player markers – 5 each in brown, white, orange and black
• 1 Cotton bag
• 1 Rules booklet
BACK
BACK
As survivors of the Armageddon, the players try to re-establish civilization. Each 
player will rebuild a city, using their survivors' talents to their best to let it grow 
and prosper.
But their citizens will need housing, because otherwise they will be prone to join 
forces with the marauders who are a constant threat to the new-born city. The 
Chris Marling
David Thompson
players need to search for the best equipment during their explorations and ex-
tend their city wisely with useful buildings, while also fighting off the marauders, 
if they want to be the winner of the game!

 
Set-up – Example for 4 players
Place the game board on the table. Place 
the game round marker next to the first 
space of the game round track.
Shuffle the scoring tiles face down and draw 2 of them. Place the first one face 
up between round 3 and 4 on the game round track. The second is placed at 
the end of the track.
Shuffle the auction tiles and stack them face down next to the game board. 
Reveal 3 tiles from the stack and place them face up on the auction spaces of 
the game board, one after another from left to right.
Sort the cards by their rear sides and shuffle each type separately.
Stack the equipment cards next to the equipment display; do likewise with the 
two stacks of building cards (level1/2), next to the buildings display.
Mix the building tiles and place them face down next to the building display.
Each player takes a city board and one extension tile. Each player places their 
city board in front of them, with the extension tile placed on the right most 
space on the board.
Each player takes a damage marker and places it with the explosion side up on 
the 3rd space (-1) of the damage track.
Each player chooses a color and takes in that color 1 screen, 5 player markers, 
as well as 5 workers (green) and 1 leader (purple). He keeps the screen next to 
his city board. The player markers and survivors are placed behind the screen.
One player marker of each player is placed on the first space of the marauder track.
One player marker of each player is stacked ran-
domly on the 10th space of the victory point track. 
Put the victory point chips next to the start of the 
victory point track.
Note: Keep the victory point chips next to the victory point 
track. Once a player has circled the track, they claim a 
+40 victory points chip and continue on the track again. 
If they circle a second time, they will flip it to +80. 
After the third time around, they claim a +120 chip and 
finally flip it to +160.
Every player draws 2 scoring tiles and places them behind their screen.
Note: In a three player game the remaining two scoring tiles are put back in the box unseen.
Put all remaining survivors in the draw bag and mix them thoroughly.
Important: In a three player game sort out 5 workers (green) and 1 leader (purple). Put 
them back in the box, they are not needed this game.

EQUIPMENT DISPLAY
EQUIPMENT
BUILDINGS
BUILDING 
TILES
SCORING 
TILES
BUILDINGS
BUILDING DISPLAY
AUCTION SPACES
MARAUDER TRACK
VICTORY POINT CHIPS
AUCTION TILES
VICTORY POINT 
TRACK
STARTING SPACE 10
SCORING TILES
EXTENSION TILE
PLAYER MARKERS
SURVIVORS
GAME ROUND TRACK
DAMAGE TRACK
DAMAGE 
MARKER
GAME 
ROUND 
MARKER
Green = 
workers
Red = 
marauders
Yellow = 
Engineers
Blue = 
soldiers
The leader can assume 
any color.
Purple = leader
SURVIVOR OVERVIEW:

 
 
All players move their marker on the marauder track equal to what is showing 
on the game round track for the current round. Then, the game round marker is 
moved to the current game round space.
Next, all players resolve the damage track on their individual city board. If the 
damage marker is on the first space, the player gains 2 victory points and ad-
vances their scoring marker accordingly. If the damage marker is on the second 
space, nothing happens. If the damage maker is on any other space, the player 
resolves the effects of all spaces to the left of the damage marker, not including 
the first space or the space of the damage marker.
Now reveal equipment cards equal to the number of players and place them, 
face up, on the equipment display of the game board, from left to right. Then 
randomly draw as many survivors from the bag as shown above each card and 
place them standing upright on that card.
 Important: There is a limit of one marauder (red) for each equipment card in the 
FIRST ROUND ONLY. If a second marauder is drawn for a card, draw another and 
place the marauder back in the bag.
Finally, reveal building cards equal to the number of players and place them, 
face up, on the building display of the game board.
During rounds 1-3, place level 1 buildings and place level 2 buildings during 
rounds 4-6. Place one building tile face up on each building card.
+ Marauder: The player moves their player marker on the marau-
der track one space to the right.
-1 / -2: The player moves their scoring marker on the victory point 
track one or two spaces backwards.
-Purple: The player must place their leader (purple) next to the 
damage track. The leader is not available for bidding or any actions 
within the city during this game round. The player only regains his 
leader when the damage marker is on or left of that space. He is 
placed behind the screen.
Sequence of play:
Armageddon is played over 6 game rounds. There is an intermediate scoring phase after 3 rounds, with final scoring after 6 rounds.
Each round consists of 4 Phases: 
 1. Setting Up 
 2. Auction 
 3. Resolving 
 4. Completion
How to play
 1. Setting Up
Example: At the start of the second round all players place their player marker on the marauder 
track 2 spaces to the right, as indicated by the number on the round track.
Example: Travis (white) evaluates his damage track and has to advance his player marker on the 
marauder track one space to the right. He also loses 2 points on the point track
The effects in detail
1st space
2nd space

 2. Auction
Exploration
Construction
City
Auction tiles
Example: Nikki (orange) places the last bid of the round and has to make it at the scavenge area, 
since she already made bids in the two other areas. She makes a 0 bid.
Example: Nikki (orange) had the highest bid alongside Ani (black). Since she placed her bid be-
fore Ani did, she takes an equipment card off the stack as her bonus. Frank (brown) has made the 
lowest bid and has to increase his damage by moving his damage marker one space to the right as 
his penalty.
The players use their survivors in order to get equipment cards, construct new buildings and perform actions within their city.
The player with the most victory points is the start player. In case of a tie, the tied player whose player marker is on top of the stack is the start player.
The start player has to make the first bid. Afterwards, going around the table clockwise, all players must take it in turns to bid.
In order to make a bid the player takes one of their player markers from behind 
their screen and places it on the topmost unoccupied space of one of the three 
auction areas. They add as many of their survivors as they wish to their marker, 
thus showing how many survivors they offer. Bidding no survivors is allowed. 
Then, the next player makes their bid. He can chose to bid on the same or cho-
se a different area. Continue in this manner until each player has made exactly 
one bid in each of the three auction areas.
Before resolving the auction areas one after another, the bonuses and penal-
ties of all areas are assigned. This is done in the following order: Exploration, 
Construction, City.
The bonus of each area is awarded to the player who had offered the most sur-
vivors here – this is the winning bid. In case of a tie for the winning bid, the tied 
player who had made their bid earlier gains the bonus (lying closer to the top).
The player who had offered the fewest survivors here suffers the penalty – this 
is the losing bid. In case of a tie for the losing bid the tied player who had made 
their bid later suffers the penalty (lying closer to the bottom).
Each bonus and each penalty is dealt with immediately. You will find a detailed 
explanation of the auction tiles on page 10.
Equipment cards 
and survivors 
are put up for 
auction here.
Building cards 
and building tiles 
are put up for 
auction here.
The number of survivors 
the players offer here is the 
number of survivors they 
intend to use later for perfor-
ming actions within their city. 
These show the bonus 
and penalty for the 
 winner and the loser 
of the different auction 
areas.

Now all auction areas are resolved, starting with Exploration, followed by Construc-
tion and finally the City.
Exploration
In descending order of the offers (from high to low), each player selects one 
equipment card from the display and takes it for themselves, together with any 
survivors on that card. The player adds the card to their hand and hides the 
survivors behind their screen, except any red marauders.
For each marauder taken, the player moves their player marker on the marau-
der track one space to the right. If the marker is on the last space, the player 
loses 1 victory point for each leftover marauder.
Subsequently, the marauders are returned to the draw bag.
You will find a detailed explanation of the equipment cards on page 11.
Construction
In descending order of the offers (from high to low), each player selects one 
building card from the display and takes it for themselves, together with the 
building tile on that card.
A player may construct that building in their city immediately, or they may for-
feit it and return it to the game box.
Buildings come in 4 different types: Headquarters, Civil, Military, and Science. 
New buildings can be constructed on each of the 8 construction sites of a 
player's board, except on the first two which are reserved for the Headquarters 
and the Watchtower. A building may be overbuilt, in that case only the new 
building counts.
Neither the Headquarter nor the Watchtower can be overbuilt. Instead, they can 
be upgraded using the correct cards. The new buildings contain upgrade cards 
for the Headquarter and Watchtower. These can only be built over the corre-
sponding, existing building.
The building tiles have various effects, which are applied immediately. There-
after, they are returned to the game box. You will find a detailed explanation of 
the building tiles on page 10. 
City
In their city, players will use all survivors offered in the city auction area to perform 
various actions. Fighting off marauders, gaining victory points, collecting equipment or 
repairing damage. Each survivor grants different benefits based on the color.
 3. Resolving
The order in which players can chose is the following: 
Travis, Nikki, Frank and then Ani.
Travis (white) begins and takes the gun and ammo equipment card as well as the engineer and 
soldier. The marauder goes back into the bag and he advances his player marker on the marauder 
track one space to the right.
Headquarters
Upgrades for the 
Headquarters and the 
Watchtower.
The 4 different building types:
The 2 upgrades:
Civil
Military
Science
Example: Nikki (orange) chooses the upgrade to the Headquarters and has to place it on top of 
her old headquarters. Because of the building token she places her player marker on the marau-
der track one space to the left and therefore gains 1 point.
Green = 
worker
Yellow = 
Engineer
Blue = 
soldier
Purple = leader
The leader is wild and can assume any 
color.

All players take their survivors offered at the City auction area and place them 
above their city board. Now, players will decide how to use these survivors. 
One at a time, beginning with the start player, each player takes a turn to per-
form all of their actions. Then play continues clockwise with the next player. 
New survivors just gained by exploration MAY NOT be used during this game 
round.
The players have the choice among three different Actions: Extend, repair, and 
extra actions: A) Extend, B) Repair and C) Extra actions.
A) Extend:
Only once during the game, the player may place two survivors of any color 
on their extension tile in order to remove it, thus constructing the Extension. 
This counts as a building that provides 2 housing points and has an extra action 
available.
Note: The Extension has to be built first, before a player can build another building on top of it.
B) Repair:
For each engineer (yellow) they use, and/or two workers (green), the player 
moves their damage marker on the damage track one space to the left. If the 
marker reaches the first space, it is flipped to its "+2" side. This action can be 
performed by the player as many times as he has survivors available.
C) Extra actions:
Almost every building enables the player to perform extra actions with special 
effects. You will find a detailed explanation of the buildings on page 12.
Housing points: A player needs at least as many housing points as they have survivors in their 
city if they want to prevent them from leaving.
Type of the building: Buildings come in 4 different types: Headquarters, Civil, Military, and 
Science. Some scoring tiles and extra actions let a player gain victory points for certain building 
types they have constructed.
Special action: Most buildings allow an extra action that the player may activate by using their 
survivors. Mainly, this comes down to fighting off marauders, gaining victory points, collecting 
equipment cards or repairing damage.
Example: Ani (black) has bid 4 survivors in the city bid area which she can now use to do different 
actions on her city board.
Example: Travis (white) has spent 
a worker and a soldier to build the 
extension. He places the extension 
tile back in the game box.
Example: Travis (white) spends two 
engineers and moves his damage 
marker two spaces to the left.
Example: Travis (white) spends his 
survivors to gain 2 points and fight 
off 4 marauders.
Headquarters
Civil
Military
Science
Anatomy of building cards

During this phase, the players check if they were able to fight off all marauders, and if 
they have sufficient housing points for their survivors.
First, players retrieve all of their markers and survivors from the auction areas, 
and put them behind their screens. In addition, they retrieve all survivors from 
the city boards, and place them behind their screens.
For each marauder a player could not fight off during this game round, they 
must move their damage marker on the damage track of their city board one 
space to the right. If the marker is on the last space, they lose 1 victory point 
for each remaining marauder. If the damage marker was on the first space, it is 
flipped to its explosion side when moving to the second space.
The marker on the marauder track remains at its current position.
Then, the players add up the housing points of their city board, their building 
cards, and, if applicable, their building tiles.
If a player's total matches or exceeds the number of their survivors, all find hou-
sing, and nothing happens.
If a player's total housing is less than their number of survivors, they must 
return a number of survivors to the draw bag equal to the difference. It is up to 
the player to decide which survivors they put back. For each returned survivor, 
the player loses 2 victory points.
If a player owns any building cards that provide a fixed number of victory 
points, the player scores these points now, and advances their scoring marker on 
the victory point track accordingly.
The players are now ready to start the next game round.
At the end of the third game round, there is an intermediate scoring, before the 
game continues with the fourth game round.
 4. Completion
Example: Ani (black) could not fight off 3 marauders and therefore has to advance her damage 
marker 3 spaces to the right. 
Example: Frank (brown) has a total of nine housing points but 10 survivors. He chooses a worker 
and places him back in the bag losing 2 points in the process.
= 9 housing point
= 10 survivors
Example: Travis (white) gains 6 points because of his two buildings with fixed victory points (5 + 1).
One of the most important extra actions is fighting off the marauders.
When performing this action, the player moves their player marker on the marau-
der track as many spaces to the left as specified. 
For each space moved, the player gains 1 victory point, and advances their sco-
ring marker accordingly.
After all players have completed their actions, they proceed with 
 4. Completion.
Example: Nikki (orange) spends one worker and one soldier to fight off 3 marauders. She moves 
her player marker on the marauder track three spaces to the left and gains 3 points.

 
 
The game ends after the sixth game round, and the final scoring takes place.
First, the remaining common scoring tile is resolved and the players advance 
their scoring markers on the victory point track (same procedure as for the 
intermediate scoring).
Then, each player choses one of their private scoring tiles and gains the victory 
points accordingly. These victory points are only awarded to the player that 
plays it. The other private scoring tile is not scored.
This is followed by scoring the equipment cards in this order: Beer, gasoline, 
weapons, medicine, vehicle parts, and finally the ancient maps.
Each player must evaluate their damage track one last time.
Each player loses one victory point for each marauder still on their marauder 
track.
The players now add their victory points from the victory point track to those 
from their victory points chip. The player with the most victory points is the 
winner of the game! In case of a tie for the most victory points the tied player 
with the most equipment cards is the winner. If the tie still persists players share 
the victory.
All players gain victory points, if they meet the condition of the common scoring tile 
which lies after the 3rd round of the game round track.
The common scoring tile is scored. Each player shows how many of the re-
quired pieces they own, and then gains the specified victory points. Advance 
their scoring marker on the victory point track accordingly. Once all players 
score, the scoring tile is placed back in the box. You will find a detailed explanation of 
the scoring tiles on page 10.
Now the 3 auction tiles are removed from the game board and put back in the 
box. 3 new auction tiles are drawn from the stack and placed on the auction 
spaces, from left to right.
All players move their player marker on the marauder track back to the first 
space losing 1 victory point for each space they move backwards. If the marker 
was already on the first space, the player loses no victory points.
The fourth game round can begin now.
Example: Nikki (orange) has 2 engineers which gains her 8 points (4 + 4). She has completed 
one round on the point track and takes the +40 token in front of her. Ani (black) gains 4 points 
and she also takes a +40 marker. Frank and Travis have no engineers and get no points for the 
scoring tile.
Example: Travis counts up his final points: 16 points for the common scoring tile + 10 points 
for his choses private scoring tile + 12 points from his equipment cards + 2 points from his dama-
ge track – 3 points because of the undefeated marauders which makes 37 points. He adds this to 
his 90 points accumulated over the course of the game and has a total of 127 points.
Intermediate scoring after the 3rd round:
Final scoring
= 16 points
= 10 points
= 2 points
= - 3 points
= 8 points
= 3 points
= 1 points
= 0 points
= total
12 points

Scoring tiles give the players the opportunity to make extra points. On the left side it shows the game object, that the player has to have in his possession when the tile is 
scored, in order to gain the points shown on the right side. The player gains points for each of the demanded game object in his possession.
The player gains points for each survivor in the 
matching color.
Survivors:
Building type: 
Equipment card:
Equipment card-back: 
The player gains 1 point 
for each equipment card 
in his possession.
The player gains points for each mat-
ching building type visible on his city 
board.
The player gains points for each 
demanded equipment card.
Note: Each car part card counts.
 
 
 
Overview: Auction tiles 
Overview: Building tiles 
Overview: Scoring tiles 
BONUSES:
PENALTIES:
- Marauder: The player moves their player marker on the marauder track 
one space to the left and gains 1 victory point. If the marker is on the first 
space, then nothing happens.
+2: The player advances their scoring marker on the victory point track 2 
spaces.
- Damage: The player moves their damage marker on the damage track 
one space to the left. If the marker is on the first space, then nothing 
+ Equipment: The player draws an equipment card from the deck and 
adds it to their hand.
- Marauder: The player moves their player marker on the marauder track 
one space to the left and gains 1 victory point. If the marker is on the first 
space, then nothing happens.
+ Equipment: The player draws an equipment card from the deck and 
adds it to their hand.
- Damage: The player moves their damage marker on the damage track 
one space to the left. If the marker is on the first space, then nothing 
2 Houses: The player has two additional housing points during this game 
round only. At the start of the next game round, these points are lost and 
the tile is returned to the game box.
Exchange: The player returns one of their workers to the draw bag and 
picks either a soldier or an engineer from it, placing that meeple where 
the workers had been before.
+ Marauder: The player moves their player marker on the marauder track 
- 2: The player moves their scoring marker on the victory point track 2 
spaces backwards.
+ Damage: The player moves their damage marker on the damage track 
- Equipment: The player must return one of their equipment cards of their 
choice to the game box. If they do not own any equipment cards, then 
nothing happens.
+ Marauder: The player moves their player marker on the marauder track 
+ Damage: The player moves their damage marker on the damage track 
- Equipment: The player must return one of their equipment cards of their 
choice to the game box. If they do not own any equipment cards, then 
nothing happens.

Note: The number in the upper right corner indicates the quanitity of that card in the game.
Players gain valuable points through equipment cards at the end of the game.
Beer, gasoline, medicine, weapons
Beer and gasoline award more 
points the more cards a player has 
in his possession. A player can 
not gain more points than the max 
value listed on the card, even if he 
has more cards.
In order to gain points for 
 weapons, the player has to have 
a set of 2 weapon cards and for 
 medicine he needs a set of 3 cards. 
A player can try to collect more 
than one set.
Players can gain points in two 
ways. More points are awarded 
if you have different parts for the 
same vehicle type.
Less points are awarded if you 
combine parts for different vehi-
cle types.
Vehicle parts (car, bus, truck)
Maps
The player owning the most 
maps at the end of the game 
gains 8 points, 2nd place gains 
4 points. If there is a tie for 
first place all players tied gain 8 
points and no points are awar-
ded for second place. If there 
is a tie for second place, tied 
players all get 4 points.
 
 
Overview: Equipment cards
Overview: Building cards
Almost every building card has an extra action, that the player can activate with 
his survivors that he has placed in the city bid area.
 
The required survivor for activation is shown on the left side of the colon. On 
the right side is the effect. As soon as a player activates an effect, the survivor he 
used is placed on that card and may not be used again this round. How many 
times a given effect can be used is stated above the colon. Players have to use a 
different survivor for each activation.
If a card has more than one extra action, both can be used in a turn.
= 2 points
= 3 points
Points same vehicle type:
Points different vehicle types:
= 8 points
= 0 points
Example:
Frank (brown) has 
collected the most maps 
and gains 8 points.
Nikki (orange) is in 
second place and gains 
4 points.
Ani (black) gains no 
points.
Example: Travis has collected 5 vehicle parts. He almost finished the whole car and gains 9 points for his 3 
parts. He has two cards left which are of different vehicle types. He combines those and gains 2 points.
Required 
survivor
Number of possible activations:
Effect
Effect
E
Required 
survivor
One survivor in 
the required color 
is needed.
Either and engi-
neer (yellow) or a 
soldier (blue) can 
be used.
Any survivor can 
be used.
Two survivors 
have to be used for 
activation.
 There are following possibilities for activation:

© Copyright 2016 Queen Games, 
D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany.
All rights reserved
 Overview: Extra actions of the buildings
The player fights off marauders equal to the 
amount of symbols shown. He moves his 
player marker on the marauder track to the 
left accordingly and gains 1 point for each 
marauder that he fights off.
The player draws three equipment cards off 
the stack and keeps one of them in hand. 
The other two are put at the bottom of the 
stack.
The player takes one of his workers that he 
used to activate this extra action and places 
him back in to the bag, exchanging him 
for either an engineer (yellow) or a soldier 
(blue) from the bag and puts him behind 
the screen. If there are no more engineers 
or soldiers in the bag, he can redistribute his 
two workers.
The player can build 
a watchtower upgrade 
on this card. That way 
the player can have 2 
watchtowers in his city.
The player gains the shown amount of 
points.
The player chooses one of his equipment 
cards to discard back into the box. Then he 
may search the equipment stack and take 
any card he wants into his hand. Finally, the 
stack is reshuffled and put back.
The player draws one survivor from the bag. 
If it is a worker (green) or marauder (red) 
he is put back in the bag and the player 
gains 2 points.
If it is an engineer (yellow) or soldier (blue) 
he is put onto the card and the player can 
use him immediately to activate another 
extra action, if possible.
Every military building 
(blue) that the player has 
visible on his city board 
has an additional housing 
point. The Builder's Yard 
also has that additional 
housing point.
The player gains 2 points for each visible 
building on his city board that matches the 
required building type.
The player moves his damage marker on 
the damage track one space to the left and 
depending on the extra action gains 1 or 2 
points. If the damage marker already sits 
on the first space (left most space) this extra 
action cannot be used.
As soon as the player builds this building ("Trai-
ning Center") all his workers (green) also count 
as engineers (yellow) and soldiers (blue).
= 10
= 8
Example: The player gains 2 
points since he has two unused 
housing points.
Example: The player has built the Training Cen-
ter and can now use his worker to activate the 
extra action which requires an engineer.
The player does not get 
any points for fighting 
off marauders anymore. 
But the card has a fixed 
number of points, which 
gains the player 10 points 
each round.
The player draws 1/2 equipment cards from 
the stack and puts it in his hand.
The player moves his player marker on the 
marauder track 1/2 spaces to the left but he 
does not gain any points.
The player gets 1 point at the end of every 
round, for each housing point unused by a 
survivor.
The player gains 2 points 
for the first 5 marauders 
he is able to fight off each 
round. If he fights off 
more than 5 marauders 
in a round he gets 1 point 
per marauder, as normal.
"Thanks to all our playtesters, but especially Chris' Sunday group (Andrew Rice, Carl Rayment, James Howard & Matthew George); David's main team 
(Joe Kutner, Jon Scafide, Michael Meister, Brent Hall, Paul Hennekes, Roger Tankersley & Ryan Leeson) and all at the Cambridge Playtest Meetup Group."
– Chris Marling & David Thompson
Note: Players are not allowed to have both "Church Mercyful" and "Church Vengeful" built 
on their city board at the same time.