Players: 2-4 Playtime: 30-60min. Ages: 10+
Rulebook
How to play 
video and interactive tutorial

You are an art connoisseur trying to 
impress your peers by putting together 
the most fashionable art collection of 
them all!
 Bid on the hottest works of art, then 
arrange them on your drawing room 
wall into a tastefully curated gallery 
that’s the envy of the local art scene. 
 But beware! Fashion is fleeting, and 
trends are difficult to predict. The 
paintings that you and your fellow 
collectors do not buy will eventually 
make their way to the museum, changing 
the worth of your collection.
In the end, whose wall will be the talk 
of town?
2 player score markers per player
4 complete wall bonus tokens 
 (one in each player colour)
4 prestige markers 
 (one for each painting type)
1 museum board
4 player aids
4 player boards
4 starting bid cards
1 auctioneer gavel
7 painting value tokens (numbered 3-9)
7 5
6.6. 4
108 decor tiles
Contents
20 bid cards per player
1212
1212
20 20
20 20
1515
1515
116 painting tiles
Newly placed tiles must touch 
existing ones.
Match frames to gain wall decor.
Avoid matching painting types 
(Faux Pas).
Assistant can hold 1 painting/
wall decor to use later.
Can't ﬁt a painting? 
Exchange it at the museum OR 
Keep as excess painting and 
gain 1 wall decor.
Game Ends at the end of round if:
A player completely ﬁlls their wall OR,
Players run out of bidding cards OR,
A player places a 2nd excess painting.
Rule Summary
Newly placed tiles must touch 
existing ones.
Match frames to gain wall decor.
Avoid matching painting types 
(Faux Pas).
Assistant can hold 1 painting/
wall decor to use later.
Can't ﬁt a painting? 
Exchange it at the museum OR 
Keep as excess painting and 
gain 1 wall decor.
Game Ends at the end of round if:
A player completely ﬁlls their wall OR,
Players run out of bidding cards OR,
A player places a 2nd excess painting.
Rule Summary

7 5
6.6. 4
6.6.
6.6.
1.	Score Track: Place the museum board in the center of the table. 
Leave some space on either side for discarded paintings. Place 
the 4 prestige markers next to it.
2.	Painting Tiles: Sort all of the paintings in the box insert or on the 
table based on their size.
3.	Decor Tiles: Place all of the decor tiles into a pile on the table 
within reach of everyone. 
4.	Player Components: Each player chooses a player board and 
takes the matching 2 score markers and 20 bid cards (see icon 
on back of player board). Each player places their markers next 
to the museum board (these will only be used at the end of the 
game). All 20 of each player’s bid cards start in their hand.
5.	Auction Area: Place the value tokens in a pile in the auction area.
6.	Starting Paintings: Shuffle the starting paintings (2x3 tiles 
marked with a gold back and a 
) and deal 1 to each player. 
Each player must place their painting face up on their gallery 
wall, such that it covers one or both 
 spaces in the center. 
Any remaining starting paintings are set aside and will not be 
used during the game.
7.	Starting Bids: Shuffle the 4 starting bid cards (white cards 
marked with a 
) and deal 1 face up in front of each player. The 
player with the starting bid card of the lowest value takes the 
gavel and becomes the first Auctioneer. Each player leaves their 
card face up to start their bidding stack.
Setup

1.Preparing the Auction
At the start of each round, the Auctioneer selects a number of 
paintings from the supply equal to the number of players plus one, 
looking only at the back of each tile. They may select multiple tiles 
with the same number. 
Once the Auctioneer finishes selecting tiles, they pick the value 
tokens corresponding to the numbers on the back of the chosen 
paintings and place the tiles underneath them (see below).
Then they flip them face up to start the auction. 
2.Placing Bids & Acquiring Paintings
After the Auctioneer selects paintings, each player (including the 
Auctioneer) simultaneously selects 1 bid card from their hand and 
places it face down on top of their previously played bid card (on 
the first turn, on top of the white starting bid card they were dealt 
during setup) in front of themselves. Once everyone is ready, all 
players flip their cards face up to reveal their bids. 
In order from highest to 
lowest bid, each player selects 
1 painting tile from the auction 
area and places it according to 
the placement rules (see pg. 
5). Each player may take as 
long as they need to decide on 
a painting, and may “try out” 
any of the paintings on their 
gallery wall before committing 
to taking one. The next player 
may not take a painting 
until the current player has 
confirmed their selection.
If two or more players play 
the same bid card, they each reveal the card underneath the one 
they played, and use this card to break the tie. If there is still a tie, 
the tied players compare the next card in their bidding stack, and 
so on until the tie is broken. (Remember that each player treats the 
white starting bid card they were dealt during setup as the first card 
in their bidding stack.) Players may not check each other’s bidding 
stack otherwise.
In a 3 player game, the Auctioneer chooses 4 paintings from the box.
The size and prestige 
value of a painting 
don’t reflect its point 
value at the end of the 
game. All paintings 
of the same type will 
score the same points, 
regardless of size 
(see pg. 8).
Overview
The game is played in rounds. Each round has 5 steps, which are detailed over the following sections.
1.	Prepare Auction: The Auctioneer (holder of the gavel) selects paintings equal to number of players +1 to bid on, and places them face up 
where players can see them. 
2.	Place Bids: Each player simultaneously chooses 1 card as their bid. 
3.	Acquire and Place Paintings: In order from highest to lowest bid, each player takes a painting and places it on their board. 
4.	Increase Prestige: The painting that is left behind is moved to the museum, and the prestige of that painting type increases.
5.	Round End: The auctioneer gavel passes clockwise and a new round begins.
The game continues until any 1 player has filled their gallery wall or, one player has 2 excess paintings (see Running out of Space, pg. 6) or, 
 all players have played all of their bid cards (see Game End, pg. 7).

Gallery Wall Placement Rules
When a player places a painting or decor tile on their gallery wall:
*	 It must be fully inside the grid.
*	 It must touch at least 1 other tile along a flat edge 
(corners don’t count). 
*	 It must be oriented so the artwork is the right way up 
so that the type label is at the bottom (it can’t be rotated).
While deciding where to place a new tile, you may move it freely 
on your gallery wall, and may continue to do so until the end of the 
round. The Auctioneer may not reveal the next set of paintings until 
each player has finished placing. Once they do, you may no longer 
move any previously placed tiles. The light area between the eye 
icons is called the eyeline. Paintings in the eyeline area may score 
additional points at the end of the game (see Final Scoring on pg. 8). 
Matching Frames and Acquiring Decor Tiles
If a newly placed painting touches one or more other paintings 
with the same style of frame, the player receives a bonus decor tile, 
worth points at the end of the game. They must immediately take a 
decor tile and place it on their wall following the normal placement 
rules or give it to their assistant (see Using Your Assistant on pg. 6). 
They must choose any decor tile with a point value (number of 
shields) equal to or less than the number of matching frames that 
directly touch the new painting. If they place a new painting touching 
4 or more other paintings with the same frame, they choose any 
combination of decor tiles that add up to the number of touching 
paintings. Do not count the newly placed painting towards this total; 
only count the paintings it touches.
If you gain a decor tile in the same round you complete your wall, 
you do not gain or score the extra decor tile, and it does not count as 
an excess painting (see Final Scoring on pg. 8). 
Wall decor can be used to fill gaps where paintings won’t fit. In 
particular, there are no 1x1, 2x1, or 3x1 paintings in the game.
In the rare event that all decor tiles of a certain size 
have been taken, players must free up tiles of that size 
by exchanging adjacent decor tiles on their walls for 
different size tiles from the supply. 
(For example, if the 1x1 tiles run out, a player could 
exchange 3 adjacent 1x1 tiles for a single 3x1 tile, 
returning the 1x1s to the supply.)
3.Placing Tiles
Whenever a player takes a new painting or decor tile, they may choose to either place it on their gallery wall following the tile placing rules below, 
or place it on their assistant to hold for later.
Examples showing one legal and 4 illegal tile placements.
OR
The painting outlined in yellow touches 2 matching frames, so this player may 
take and place a decor tile of size 2 or smaller.

Faux Pas (avoiding matching painting types)
Paintings come in 4 different types: 
City Life 
, Portrait 
, Still Life 
, and Landscape 
. 
If a newly placed painting touches a side of one or more other 
paintings of the same type, the player has committed a faux pas! Each 
offending painting will score no points for prestige at the end of the 
game (see Final Scoring, pg.8).
Using your Assistant
If a player can’t or doesn’t want to place a painting or decor tile 
on their gallery wall, they may give it to their assistant. A player’s 
assistant can hold 1 tile at a time (either a painting or a decor tile). 
Whenever a player places a new tile, they may also place their 
assistant’s tile, either before or after they place their new one. (This 
means they may place their assistant’s tile first, then give the new tile 
to their assistant.)
If a player’s assistant is holding a tile at the end of the game, it scores 
no points. However, it does not count as an excess painting. Once a 
painting has been given to the assistant, it can only be placed onto the 
wall and may not be exchanged in the museum (see Running Out of 
Space, below).
Running Out of Space
If a player takes a painting size that doesn’t fit on their gallery wall, 
they must immediately take the following steps:
1.	They may give the painting to their assistant (see above).
2.	If they don’t want to give the painting to their assistant (or can’t 
because their assistant is already holding a painting that doesn’t 
fit on their wall), they may exchange their new painting for 1 
painting of the same type (ex. Landscape for a Landscape) that 
was discarded to the museum piles (see Increasing Prestige on pg. 
7), which they must then place normally. This exchange does not 
affect the prestige of that painting type on the museum board.
3.	If they can’t exchange the new painting (because there are no 
matching painting types in the museum that will fit on their gallery 
wall), they must store the painting beside their board as an excess 
painting. They then take a 1 point decor tile and place it normally. 
Each excess painting a player has, costs them -2 points at the end 
of the game. If a player stores their second excess painting, the 
end of the game is triggered (see Game End on pg. 7).
This player has been forced to take a 
Landscape that won’t fit!
Luckily, they’re able to exchange it for a 
smaller Landscape from the museum piles, 
and avoid gaining an excess painting.
These 2 City Life paintings won’t be counted when scoring prestige. 
This player wants to avoid a faux pas, so they 
give this City Life painting to their assistant.
In the following round, they decide to 1. place 
the painting they won at auction and 
2. their assistant’s painting.

4.Increasing Prestige
During the game, the prestige of each painting type within the art 
community is tracked by advancing its prestige marker on the score 
track on the museum board. At the end of the game, the 4 painting 
types will be ranked based on their prestige scores. The higher the 
prestige ranking of a painting type, the more points each painting of 
that type will score at the end of the game (see Prestige Rankings).
After each auction, one painting will be left unsold. This painting 
will be acquired by the museum and cause paintings of that type to 
increase in prestige. Place the unsold painting beside the museum 
board, in the designated area for paintings of that type (colour). 
These 4 areas will form a pile of unsold paintings of that type.
Determine the unsold painting’s prestige value (shown on the back 
of the tile and the value token it is under) and advance the prestige 
marker of the matching type on the score track by that amount. 
Prestige markers may never be tied on the score track. If a marker 
would advance to the same space as another marker, the advancing 
marker instead moves backwards to the first empty space it can 
occupy (see below). Paintings exchanged with the museum do not 
affect the prestige of that painting type. If a prestige marker passes 
50 on the score track, flip it to its black side, and keep advancing 
from 1 on the score track. Black markers are valued at +50.
 
5.Round End
At the end of the round, the Auctioneer passes the gavel to the 
player on their left, who becomes the new Auctioneer. They begin the 
next round by selecting new paintings. 
Prestige Rankings
Before players count their scores, determine the final prestige 
rankings of the 4 painting types, based on the order of their prestige 
markers on the score track. Move the prestige markers up to the 
ranking spaces track at the top of the museum board to show their 
rankings. The most prestigious painting type (furthest on the track) 
is placed on (x5), the next-most prestigious type is placed on (x4), 
and so on, until all 4 types have a ranking. 
In the rare case that one or 
more painting 
types don’t 
make it to 
the museum, 
they will each 
score (x2).
A 4-value Portrait is left after the auction, so the red Portrait marker advances 4 
spaces. It lands on the blue City Life marker, so it moves back 1 space (ie. space 3). 
If the City Life prestige marker is still ahead of the Portrait marker at the 
end of the game, City Life paintings will be worth 
more points than Portraits.
Currently, the art community holds Landscape paintings in the highest regard. 
Game End
The end of the game is triggered when any of the 
following happen:
*	A player has no empty space left 
on their gallery wall; or
*	A player stores their second 
excess painting; or
*	Players have no bid cards 
left in hand.
Finish the current round, then count up final scores 
(see Final Scoring on pg. 8). The player with the 
highest score is the winner. 

Final Scoring
Before scoring, each player checks with the player on their left 
whether they have committed any faux pas. Then each player 
scores the following points using their player score markers on the 
museum board:
1.	Painting Prestige: Each player scores points by counting the 
number of paintings of each type multiplied by the prestige 
ranking of that type. Paintings that are part of a faux pas 
(touching a painting of the same type) are not counted.	
	
	 Recognized	2 pts per painting 
	 Admired	
3 pts per painting 
	 Popular	
4 pts per painting 
	 In Vogue	
5 pts per painting
2.	Decor Bonus: Each player scores the point value (number of 
shields) on each decor tile on their wall.
3.	Eyeline Bonus: Each player scores +3 points for each painting 
of the most prestigious type (x5) that is partly or fully in the 
light region between the eye icons on their wall. All paintings 
of the correct type are counted, even if they are part of a 
faux pas.
4.	Full Gallery: Each player with no empty space on their wall 
scores +5 points. 
5.	Exposed Corners: Each player loses 2 points for each corner of 
their wall that is not covered by a tile. 
6.	Excess Paintings: Each player loses 2 points for each excess 
painting they have (ignoring any painting held by their assistant).
Tiebreaker
If two or more players tie for victory, the tied player with the 
highest total value on the bid cards left in their hand wins. If there is 
still a tie, the victory is shared.
In the example above the player scores the following:
Still Life: 4 paintings x 2 pts each = 8 pts
Portrait: 3 paintings x 3 pts each = 9 pts
City Life: 4 paintings x 4 pts each = 16 pts
Landscape: 3 paintings x 5 pts each = 15 pts 
2 Landscapes create a faux pas (red box), so these paintings don’t score.
Decor Bonus: 11 shields = 11 pts
Eyeline score (area between yellow dotted lines): 
Landscapes are the most prestigious so 3 Landscapes x 3 pts = 9 pts 
The 2 faux pas Landscapes above also count towards the eyeline score.
Full Gallery = 0 pts
Exposed Corners: 1 corner x -2 pts = -2 pts
Excess Paintings: 1 painting x -2 pts = -2 pts
Scoring Example
TOTAL = 64 pts
Credits
Designed by Mitch Wallace
Project Lead, Art Direction and Product Design: Mark Casha
Art Giacomo Vichi, Sofia Rossi, Veronica Grassi, 
Angelica Regni, Doris Shermadhi, Max Kosek 
Graphic Design Max Kosek and Mark Casha
Developed by Mighty Boards
Project Manager: David Chircop
Rulebook Editor: Jeff Fraser
Marketing: Eveline Foubert
Test Lead: Aphrodite Andreou. Testers: Emma Wallace, Felipe Sanchez, Matt 
Wolfe, Andy North, David Marron, Ed Shubert, Quentin Burleson, Mark McGee, 
Taun Curtis, Emily Zucker, Clarence Simpson, Bob Schall, Susan Lupton, Joel 
Salda, Jeremy Baker, Jonah Klever, Wesley Tolliver, Anne Lupton, Juli Bierwirth, 
Elaine Wallace, Chris Wallace
eyeline
excess 
painting
scan to learn more
Rulebook version 1.1
© 2023 Mighty Boards Ltd.
All rights reserved. No part of this 
product may be reproduced without 
authorisation from Mighty Boards.
www.mighty-boards.com