GAME IDEA
GAME COMPONENTS
The players lead a group of Knights at King Arthur’s court. They 
try to continuously increase their group’s prestige by placing as close 
behind the King at the round table as possible as well as by com-
pleting various assignments.
But be careful! Those who don’t react quickly enough will soon find 
their fortunes turning and their Knights back on undesirable seats 
around the round table again. That can cost a lot of prestige.
Since the King keeps changing positions during the game, and since 
a new King is crowned from time to time, the players are forced to 
always keep repositioning their Knights around the round table. 
Let the competition for the best seats begin! 
The winner is the player with the most prestige points at the end of 
the game.
	 1	game board (in three sections)
	 1	rotating board („table surface“)
	 1	suckling pig
	12	point tiles (with „50“)
	28	playing figures (6 „Knights“ in each 
	
	of the four player colours as well as 
	
	2 „Princes“ in Silver and Bronze)
	10	Rings (golden)
	88	cards (22 per player colour) 
	 1	plastic stand (transparent)
Before playing for the first time, carefully 
remove all components from the cardboard 
frame. Insert the plastic stand into the pre-
punched slit in the middle of the table 
surface and then insert the suckling pig 
into the stand. These components can stay 
together after finishing the game.
If you are reading these rules for the first time, then we recommend 
ignoring the bold rules in the right-hand column of each page. These 
texts form a summary of the rules to assist in quickly re-learning the 
game after not having played for a while.
Michael Kiesling / Wolfgang Kramer
and the Knights of the Round Table
GAME IDEA
Players lead a group of 
Knights with the goal of 
obtaining as much prestige 
as possible at King Arthur’s 
court
To accomplish this they try 
to place their Knights onto 
the most advantageous seats 
around the table
The player with the most 
prestige points wins

GAME SETUP
Place the game board in the middle of the table, using the connec-
ting piece to ensure that the two halves are properly connected 
together. 
Place the silver and bronze coloured figures („Princes“) onto the four 
seats with crowns, taking care to ensure that identical colours are op­
posite each other. 
Note: The four seats with crowns have no additional special function 
for the rest of the game. 
Place 3 rings onto the prince located on the seat with the larger 
crown. This becomes King Arthur. Place only 1 ring onto each of 
the other three princes. 
(It is irrelevant whether King Arthur is a silver or a bronze figure.) 
Place the rotating board („table surface“) such that the round 
portion of the plastic stand is inserted into the hole in the middle 
of the game board. Now, using the suckling pig, rotate the table 
so that the plate with the crown is immediately adjacent to King 
Arthur. It will remain there for the rest of the game. Should the 
King move or a new King be crowned, then the rotating board is 
immediately rotated to suit the new King’s location. 
Place the 12 point tiles (with „50“) as well as the remaining 4 rings 
next to the game board.
Each player receives, in the colour of his choice:
• 6 Knights (with 2 and 3 players) or 5 Knights (with 4 players). 
	 Each player places one Knight onto the 0/50 space on the prestige 
	 point track. He places the remaining Knights in front of himself.
• 1 set of cards: Each player sorts his cards according to their backs 
	 into the three piles: Knight cards (helmet), King cards (crown) and 
	 scoring cards (scroll). Each player returns his scoring cards to the 
	 game box, as these six cards are only used in the advanced game.
	 Each player shuffles his remaining two piles separately and places 
	 them in front of himself: face-down pile of Knight cards on the left, 
	 face-down pile of King cards on the right.
Each player then draws two cards from each pile and places them in 
his hand so that he has a total of 4 hand cards.
ARTUS includes rules for beginners as well as ones for advanced players.
The rules for the beginner game follow below. Additional rules for advanced players 
are included at the end (page 6). We recommend using the beginner rules for the 
first game. Experienced players may choose to start with the advanced game right 
away, however.
 
Beginner Game 
(9 years and up – without scoring cards)
There are rules for a 
beginner game as well 
as an advanced game
GAME SETUP
Set up game board
Place princes on seats with 
crowns
King Arthur: 3 Rings 
other Princes: 1 Ring each
Place rotating board: 
Crown always next to 
Point tiles and remaining 
rings next to the game board 
Each player receives:
• 5 Knights (4 players)
• 6 Knights (2-3 players)
	 (one of them onto 0/50) 
• 8 Knight cards 
• 8 King cards
2 x 2 cards in hand

GAMEPLAY
Don´t forget!
After all players have looked at their hand cards, Knights are placed 
onto the empty seats around the round table. The oldest player is 
the start player. His right-hand neighbour goes first, placing a Knight 
onto any empty seat (the 10, for example). Then, in counter-clockwise 
direction, the next player does the same (placing on the 8, for ex­
ample), and so on, until each player has placed a Knight. Depending 
on how many players are taking part, there will be a total of five (2-3 
player game) or four (4 player game) placement rounds. The start 
player then begins the actual game, with play proceeding in clock­
wise direction.
The game lasts for a total of 16 rounds. On a player’s turn, he plays 
one of his hand cards, carries out the corresponding action and then 
sets the card aside (it is out of the game). He subsequently draws 
another card from either of his two draw piles. It is then the next 
player’s turn.
Each card played allows a single action to be carried out. In the 
beginner game, there are a total of three different actions: 
u	Move a Knight (with all eight Knight cards)
u	Move a Prince or the King (with four specific King cards)
u	Add a ring (with the other four King cards)
u	Move a Knight 
	 If the player plays one of his Knight cards, then 
	 he must move one of his own Knights as many 
	 seats (henceforth also referred to as “spaces”) for-
	 wards in clockwise direction as indicated by the 
	 card. The numbers on the card played give him 
	 options for how far he may move his Knight. 
	
Example: With the „3-6“ card, a player can choose whether to 
	
move a Knight 3, 4, 5 or 6 spaces forwards. (See also Example 
	
A on page 8.)
	
Important: This card is a significant exception. With it, 
	
a player may move a Knight forwards 1-5 spaces, as usual, 
	
but may also move the Knight 1-5 spaces backwards (i.e. 
	
counter-clockwise). This is the only card that allows a player 
	
to deliberately move one of his Knights backwards. 
	
(See also Example B on page 8.)
When a player moves one of his Knights, he either receives or 
loses prestige points. The value of the space that the Knight 
leaves (not the space the Knight lands on!) determines how 
many prestige points the player receives / loses. The player 
then adjusts his scoring marker on the prestige point track by 
moving it forwards or backwards the appropriate amount. 
(See also the detailed examples on page 8).
Choose a start player: 
subsequently place 
Knights onto empty 
seats in reverse order
GAMEPLAY
The game lasts for 
16 rounds
Each round, each player 
plays a hand card and then 
carries out the action:
u	Move a Knight
u	Move a Prince or 
u	Add a ring
u	Move a Knight:
	 Move a player’s own 
	 Knight forwards as 
	 many spaces as allowed 
	 by the card
This is the only 
Knight card that 
also permits back-
wards movement
prestige points depending 
on the space his Knight left

Should a player’s scoring marker reach or go beyond the 50 
space on the prestige point track, then the player takes one of 
the point tiles from the supply and places it in front of himself. 
Should a player’s score be reduced to fewer than 50 again, then the 
player must return the point tile back to the supply.
Note: In the unlikely event that a player has fewer than 0 prestige points, 
then that player moves his scoring marker backwards as required and 
then places it on its side. The scoring marker remains on its side until the 
player has 0 or more points again.
If the Knight ends its movement on an occupied seat, then it „dis-
places“ that figure. More on this on the next page (under „Displace-
ment“) (as well as in the detailed examples on page 8).
u	Move a Prince or the King 
The Princes and the King are „neutral“ figures that can 
be moved by all players. If a player plays one of his King 
cards with number values on them, then he must move a 
correspondingly coloured Prince or the King forwards as 
many spaces as indicated by the card. The numbers on the card 
played give him options for how far he may move the Prince or King. 
The card’s background colour is binding for Princes as well as the 
King! 
	
Examples: 
 
• With the silver and bronze coloured „4-8“, a player may 
	
	 move any Prince or the King forwards 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 spaces. 
 
• With the silver „1-7“, a player may move one of the two 
 
 silver figures between 1 and 7 spaces forwards (regardless 
	
	 whether it is the King or a Prince), but may not move any 
	
	 bronze-coloured figures!
	
Important: This card is a significant exception. With it, 
	
a player may move a Prince or the King forwards 1-5 
	
spaces, as usual, but may also move them 1-5 spaces back-
	
wards (i.e. counter-clockwise). This is the only card that 
	
allows a player to deliberately move one of the Princes or 
	
the King backwards.
When the King is moved, then the table surface is rotated immedia-
tely afterwards, so that the crown is next to the King again.
When a player moves one of the Princes, then he either receives or 
loses prestige points corresponding to the value of the space that the 
Prince left. The player then adjusts his scoring marker on the prestige 
track by the appropriate amount.
When a player moves the King, then he doesn’t receive or lose any 
prestige points, since the King is always next to the crown (which 
counts 0 points). 
If the Prince or King ends its movement on an occupied seat, then 
it „displaces“ that figure. (See „Displacement“ on the next page.)
When the 50 space 
is reached then a 
corresponding tile 
is taken
Figure on an occupied 
ending space is „displaced“
u	Move a Prince or 
	 the King:
Move a Prince or Knight 
forwards as many spaces 
as allowed by the card 
(observe colour restrictions!)
This is the only 
King card that 
also permits back-
wards movement 
of a Prince or 
prestige points depending 
on the space the Prince left
(King always 0 points!) 
Figure on an occupied 
ending space is „displaced“

GAME END
Don´t forget!
After 16 rounds, after which all players have played all their cards, 
the game is over. The player with the most prestige points is the 
winner. In the event of a tie then there are multiple winners.
„Displacement“
There may never be more than one figure on any seat. If a figure’s 
movement (regardless whether it is a Knight, Prince or the King) 
ends on an occupied seat, then the figure currently located there 
(regardless whether it is a player’s own or an opposing Knight, Prince 
or the King) is „displaced“ and must move to the next empty space in 
counter-clockwise direction (which is often, but not always, the space 
the just-moved figure came from). 
When the King is displaced, then the table surface is rotated im-
mediately afterwards, so that the crown is next to the King again. 
Notes:
• Displaced figures do not score any points!
• If a figure was displaced through another figure´s backwards 
	 movement via a 1-5ÅÆ-card then it still moves to the next 
	 empty space in counter-clockwise direction, as usual! 
	 (See also Example B on page 8.)
u Add a ring 
The player takes a ring from the supply next to the 
game board and adds it to a Prince (never the King!). 
The card played indicates whether the ring may be 
added to a silver Prince, a bronze Prince, or either 
(observe the card’s background colour!).
As soon as a Prince receives a third ring, then it is 
immediately crowned the new King: The old King becomes 
a Prince again, losing all but one ring back to the supply. 
The table surface is rotated such that the crown is next to 
the new King. 
For adding a ring (including a third one!), a player receives or loses 
prestige points equal to the value of the space the Prince is currently 
standing on. Princes are never moved as a result of a ring action.
New hand cards
After a player has played a card and carried out the corresponding 
action, he sets the card aside (it is now out of the game) and then 
draws a new card from the top of either of his draw piles. 
The four hand cards must only consist of two Knight and two King 
cards at the start of the game; afterwards a player’s four hand cards 
can be made up of any combination of cards. As soon as one draw 
pile is exhausted, then the player may only draw cards from the other 
pile. Once both piles are exhausted then the player may not draw 
cards any more. Players continue playing until all hand cards have 
been played.
When a figure lands on 
an occupied space, then 
the figure located there is 
displaced to the next empty 
space behind it (counts also 
for 1-5ÅÆ-cards)
u Add a ring:
Add a ring to a Prince 
(never the King!) 
(observe colour restrictions!)
Third ring = new King:
• old King loses all but 
	 one ring and becomes 
	 a Prince again
• rotate table surface 
	 as required
prestige points equal to the 
Prince’s space
Draw top card from either 
draw pile
GAME END
The player with the 
most prestige points 
is the winner 

THE SCORING CARDS
Advanced Game 
(12 years and up – with scoring cards)
All beginner game rules are in effect with 
the following exceptions:
Game Setup
Each player shuffles his 6 scoring cards and places them in a face-
down pile to the right of his other two draw piles. 
Each player draws 3 Knight and 3 King cards at the start of the 
game; the game is played with 6 hand cards. 
Scoring cards may also be drawn as hand cards after this.
Gameplay
Each player must always play 2 hand cards, in any order, on their 
turn. The player plays the first card, carrying out the action and any 
associated displacement and scoring, and then setting the card aside. 
Immediately thereafter, he plays a second card, again carrying out the 
action and any associated displacement and scoring, and again setting 
the card aside. 
Then he first draws one card from the draw pile of his choice. After 
having looked at that card, he draws a second one, again from the 
draw pile of his choice. It is then the next player’s turn to carry out 
two actions, etc.
Game End
After 11 rounds, after which all players have played all their cards, the 
game is over. The player with the most prestige points is the winner.
A fundamental rule for all scoring cards is that a player’s own Knights 
are always what is meant when the cards refer to „Knights“.
Score all Knights 
The player who plays this card must score all of his Knights (all four 
in a 4 player game or all five in a 2 or 3 player game). He receives 
or loses prestige points equal to the values of the spaces his Knights 
are currently standing on and moves his scoring marker forwards or 
backwards the corresponding amount. 
(See also Example D on page 8.)
Score all Knights (opposite signs!)
The player who plays this card must score all of his Knights (all four 
in a 4 player game or all five in a 2 or 3 player game). He receives 
or loses prestige points equal to the opposite values of the spaces his 
Knights are currently standing on – positive spaces score negative 
points and negative spaces score positive points – and moves his 
scoring marker forwards or backwards the corresponding amount. 
(See also Example D on page 8.)
Additional third draw pile:
6 scoring cards
6 hand cards 
Each player must play 
2 cards per turn and 
carry out 2 actions
Game ends after 11 rounds

Score one Knight each on green, yellow and red spaces
or -15 prestige points
The player who plays this card must choose one of his Knights on 
a green (1 to 10) space, one on a yellow (3x 0) space and one on a 
red (-1 to -15) space and score all three, moving his scoring marker 
forwards or backwards the corresponding amount. 
Should the player not have at least one Knight on green, yellow 
and red spaces, he can still play this card, receiving -15 points for it 
instead (and ignoring the positions of his Knights). This may be the 
case towards the end of the game, when the player is forced to play 
this card without being able to fulfil its requirements because there 
are no other options. (See also Example E on the next page.)
Score two Knights on the carpet or -25 prestige points
The player who plays this card must choose two of his 
Knights located on any two of the six chairs on the 
carpet (see figure) and score them, moving his scoring 
marker forwards or backwards the corresponding 
amount. 
Should the player have fewer than two Knights on the 
six carpet spaces, he can still play this card, receiving 
-25 points for it instead (and ignoring the positions of 
his Knights). This may be the case towards the end of 
the game, when the player is forced to play the card 
without being able to fulfil its requirements because 
there are no other options. (See also Example F on the 
next page.)
Score three Knights on red spaces or -50 prestige points
The player who plays this card must choose three of his Knights 
located on red spaces (-1 to -15) and score them, moving his scoring 
marker backwards the corresponding amount.
Should the player have fewer than three Knights on red spaces, 
he can still play this card, receiving -50 points for it instead (and 
ignoring the positions of his Knights). This may be the case towards 
the end of the game, when the player is forced to play the card with-
out being able to fulfil its requirements because there are no other 
options. (See also Example G on the next page.)
Move a figure 1-3 spaces forwards or add a Ring or score a Knight
The player who plays this card must choose one of the three options: 
Either he moves one of his Knights, a Prince of his choice or the King 
between 1 and 3 spaces forwards, with all usual consequences (prestige 
points and displacement). 
Or he adds a ring to a Prince of his choice (not the King!), with all 
usual consequences (prestige points and possibly a new King). 
Or he scores his best Knight and moves his scoring marker forwards 
(or backwards) the corresponding amount.

Example A:
Should Red move his Knight on 
space 5 forwards 5 spaces, he 
would receive 5 prestige points 
(PP) for it and displace the King 
to space 8 (rotate table surface!). 
Should Red move his Knight only 
4 spaces, he would receive 5 PP 
and displace the black Knight to space 8. 
Should Red move his Knight only 3 spaces 
forward, he would receive 5 PP and not 
displace anyone.
Example D:
Should Black play this scoring card, 
then he receives 2 PP for it (10-3-5±0). 
If the other players were to play this 
card: Blue would receive 14 PP 
(7+6+2-1) and Red would receive 
1 PP (5+4+1-9); Beige would lose 
13 PP (-2-4-7±0).
Should Beige play the „Score all Knights 
(opposite signs!)“ card, though, he would 
receive 13 PP (2+4+7±0).
Example G:
Beige is the only player at the moment 
who can sensibly play this scoring card; 
he would „only“ lose 13 PP (-2-4-7) for 
it (instead of 50!). 
All other players would have to lose 50 PP 
when playing this card, as none of them 
can fulfil the requirement!
Example F:
Should Black play this scoring card, then he 
would lose only 3 PP (-3±0) instead of 25! 
He would ignore his third Knight on the 
carpet (on the -5). 
Blue and Red would lose 25 PP when 
playing this card as neither of them can 
fulfil the requirement, but Beige would 
lose only 4PP.
Example E:
Black is the only player at the moment 
who can sensibly play this scoring card: he 
would receive 7 PP for it (10-3±0). 
All other players would have to lose 15 PP 
when playing this card, as none of them 
can fulfil the requirement.
Example C:
Anyone who adds a ring to the silver 
Prince on space 3 would receive 3 PP for 
it. Immediately afterwards, this Prince 
becomes the new King and the old King 
becomes a regular Prince again (with 1 
ring). Rotate table surface!
At the moment, adding a ring to the 
silver Prince on space -12 would cost 
12 PP and should probably be avoided ...
Example B:
Should Red move his Knight 
on space 5 backwards 3 spaces 
(he can only do this with this 
card!), he would receive 5 PP 
and displace the blue Knight 
on space 2 backwards onto the 
-6 space. (Red is hoping that the 
silver Prince on space 3 will become the 
next King, as his Knight would then be 
standing directly behind it (on the 10).)
Should you have criticisms, questions or suggestions about this game, please contact us:
alea | Postfach 1150 | 83233 Bernau am Chiemsee
Fon: 0049 8051 970720 | Fax: 0049 8051 970722 | E-Mail: info@aleaspiele.de
Please visit also our website: www.aleaspiele.de
Translations by Patrick Korner 
© 2010 Michael Kiesling / Wolfgang Kramer
© 2011 Ravensburger Spieleverlag 
Note: Each example should be treated as a separate instance.
229185