Idea and object of the game
The players assume the roles of the rich building magnates 
 Timanis, Mirar, Leiard and Faraiel, each of whom is seeking to 
boost his prestige within the Caliphate. The players compete 
with each other to see who can build the highest, the grandest 
and the largest number of towers within the space of 4 years. 
To do this, they dispatch their buyers to the marketplace to 
purchase the necessary building blocks. The players purchase 
different sections of the tower (base / trunk / window / turret) 
from each area of the market. 
The sections are available in 5 different materials (in the colours 
brown, green, red, black and white). Some of them have gold 
 decorations. The sections vary in price, but also in the amount of 
prestige they bring the player. Whoever is 
top of the prestige list at the end of 
the game is the winner. 
An exciting board game for 2 to 4 architects aged 9 upwards
Authors: Michael Kiesling and Wolfgang Kramer 
Illustration: Franz Vohwinkel 
Design: DE Ravensburger, KniffDesign (instructions) 
Editor: André Maack
Ravensburger® Game No. 26 532 9
Welcome, Wanderer!
ASARA, the land of a thousand towers, opens its 
gates to you. Walk on boldly and you will ﬁnd 
yourself in a magical realm where the cities are 
 dominated by palaces with white alabaster walls 
and towers topped by gold domes. All over these 
magniﬁcent cities, cranes reach into the sky, at work 
on various building projects. Wondrous ﬂying 
 machines transporting heavy materials at dizzying 
heights can be seen from afar. The Caliph’s call for a 
competition to beautify the land has been heard far 
beyond its borders. And so now you have come to pit 
your skills against your rival architects …
How to play
Distribute the game components as described in the crib sheet. The starting player begins. 
His turn consists of two actions:
 
1. Dispatch buyers (= lay card)
 
2. Execute move (e.g. choose and pay for tower section)
Play then continues in a clockwise direction with the person on his left, 
who performs the same two actions, and so on.
Dear Players,
Please start by setting up the game as shown on the enclosed crib sheet, which also describes all the necessary game components. 
A professional version of ASARA can also be played. 
We recommend that you stick with the standard conﬁguration for the ﬁrst few games, however.

Example 1: Tina holds 6 buyer cards shown above. She would like 
to buy a trunk section. She has a free choice, as there are no other 
buyers in that area yet. She places any one of the buyers in her 
hand on one of the 4 spaces in the trunk area of the market.
1. Dispatch buyers
On his turn, each player lays one of the buyer 
cards in his hand face up on an empty space in 
one of the market areas.
The rules are as follows:
• If there are no other buyers in this area 
yet, the new buyer can be any colour 
(see example 1).
• If one or more buyers are already in the 
area, the new buyer must be the same 
colour as the others. Play must there-
fore always follow suit, i.e. colour.
• If a player wishes to place a buyer in a particular area, but is 
neither able nor willing to play the required colour, he can 
place any 2 buyer cards face down on one space instead 
(see example 2).
Play must always follow suit in all areas of the board (i.e. bank, 
building circle, market areas, etc.).
2. Execute move
The player can execute one of several moves depending on the 
area in which he places his buyer. 
The possible moves are as follows:
•Buy tower sections
There are 4 market areas where the players can buy the building 
blocks for their tower. Here they can ﬁnd bases, trunks, windows 
and turrets. 
If a player chooses the move “Buy tower sections“, he can take 
any 1 of the tower sections lying face up in this market area and 
place it behind his screen. He then pays the required number of 
Asari into the kitty. 
Tower sections of the same colour always cost the same 
amount. A red base costs exactly the same as a red trunk 
section, for example. The prices for each colour are indi-
cated on the board, and on the inner right-hand side of 
the screens. A tower section with a gold decoration 
costs the same as an identical tower section without 
decoration.
N.B.: It is up to the players collectively 
to check that all payments are made!
Example 2: Wolfgang also wants to buy a trunk section, but there 
is already a blue buyer in this area of the market. To follow suit, he 
would therefore have to lay a blue buyer card. Since he doesn’t have 
a blue buyer card, he chooses any 2 buyers from his hand and places 
them face down on one space.
Example: 
Tina wants to buy a trunk section. 
She lays the blue buyer card 
, 
takes the black tower section and places it behind her screen 
. 
For this, she pays 6 Asari to the kitty 
. 
B
C
A

•Build tower
The players build their towers using the building circle. In the 
building circle there are 7 plots costing from 1 to 7 Asari. If a 
player lays a buyer card on a plot in the buil-
ding circle, he must use the number of tow-
er sections corresponding to the cost of 
that plot, either by assembling them into 
new towers or adding them to existing 
ones. He then pays the relevant number 
of Asari into the kitty. 
The following rules apply:
1 Each tower may consist of one colour only.
2. Each tower consists of one base only and one turret only. 
It may have any number of trunk parts and windows. 
3. On his turn, the player may build any number of towers 
 simultaneously. These may be new or existing ones, and of 
the same or different colours. 
4. Completed towers may be added to (i.e. by inserting any 
number of trunk parts and windows). 
5. Parts may not be swapped between towers of the same 
 colour.
6. At the end of his turn, the player should only have complete 
towers in front of his screen, i.e. they must have at least a 
base and a turret. 
In reward, the player receives prestige points in proportion to 
the number of tower sections he has used during his turn.
•Extra funds
If a player places a buyer in a vacant space in the bank (Fig. 1), he 
may take the corresponding number of Asari from the kitty.
Another way of raising funds is via the coloured building (Fig. 2) 
next to the bank. If a player places any buyer card face down on 
this building on his turn, he receives 5 Asari in return. 
Important: 
• Any number of buyer cards may be placed on top of each 
other on the coloured building space.
• In contrast to all the other areas, players do not have to fol-
low suit in this space.
Exception:
If a player wants to build and the desired plot in the building circle is already occupied, he can place his buyer on the next highest 
 vacant plot. He pays a higher price, but uses fewer tower sections. He only receives prestige points in proportion to the number of 
tower sections used.
Example: Philipp has 4 tower sections behind 
his screen. He lays a buyer card on plot 3 of the 
building circle, pays 3 Asari and starts building.
The two white tower sections make up a complete tower. He inserts 
the black window into his existing black tower. He receives a total 
of 3 prestige points. He can’t use the red trunk section as he doesn’t 
yet have a red tower in which to put it.
Fig. 1
Fig. 2

•Bribery
If a player places a buyer card on the House of Spies, he ﬁrst pays 
the required 3 or 5 Asari into the kitty and then selects one of 
the 4 piles of tower sections. He searches the pile and may take 
a tower section from it. He shows this card face up to all the 
other players, pays the required number of Asari for that section 
into the kitty and places it behind his screen. The pile is then 
shufﬂed and replaced on its space on the board. 
Attention: the “bribery” option cannot be used to buy a tower 
section from the market stalls.
•Caliph’s patronage
If a player places a buyer card on this 
space, he instantly takes the Caliph’s 
patronage from the player currently 
in possession of the tile. He then becomes 
the starting player for the next year. 
End of a year
A year ends when all players have placed all their buyer cards on the board. Some players may have already distributed all their 
 buyers if they were unable to follow suit and therefore had to lay 2 random buyer cards in one space. If so, the players without cards 
skip their turn until all players have placed their buyers. 
Example: Wolfgang has 2 towers, 2 gold decorations and the 
Caliph’s patronage. This earns him (2+2+1)=5 prestige points. 
End-of-year evaluation (left-hand diagram on screen)
After each of the 4 years, an evaluation is performed and the 
number of prestige points earned by each player is recorded on 
the prestige bar using the counters. 
• Each tower constructed so far - of whatever colour or height 
– earns 1 prestige point. 
• Each gold-decorated section in each tower constructed so 
far earns 1 prestige point. 
• The Caliph’s patronage earns 1 prestige point.
Tip: Since the tower sections with gold decorations earn new pre-
stige points every year, it is a good idea to buy these where possible. 
After the end-of-year evaluation, the next year begins.
Example of ”bribery“: Philipp places a buyer card on space 3 of the 
House of Spies. He pays 3 Asari into the kitty and selects the pile 
containing the turrets. He chooses a black turret, shows it to the 
other players, pays a further 6 Asari into the kitty for it and 
places it behind his screen.
Beginning of a new year
• Remove all buyer cards from the board.
• Shufﬂe all 45 buyer cards and re-distribute them according 
to the number of players.
• Fill the empty spaces in the market areas with tower sec-
tions from the respective top-up piles. If a top-up pile is used 
up, this means that not all the spaces can be ﬁlled.
• Distribute 20 Asari to each player; there is no sliding scale as 
at the beginning of the game.
• Keep the money and unused tower sections from previous 
years behind the screen.
• Move the year counter on 1 space.
• The player with the Caliph’s patronage begins. 
Each of the 4 years follows the same pattern.
End of the game
The game ends after the fourth year. The 4th end-of-year evaluation is now performed.
This is followed immediately by the ﬁnal evaluation. 

Final evaluation (middle diagram on screen)
In the event of a tie, the following rules apply:
•If there is a tie for 1st place, the prestige points earned by the two highest-scoring players are added together. This amount is 
 divided by the number of towers involved (rounding up if necessary). The result is then credited to the players for each tower in 
question. In this case there is no 2nd place (see black towers in the example on p. 6).
•If there is a tie for 2nd place, the prestige points of the second highest-scoring players are shared out proportionately between 
the players as above (see white towers in the example on p. 6).
•Largest number of towers: in this case, the points are not divided by the number of towers, but the number of players involved.
Gold decorations and the Caliph’s patronage do not earn any points in the ﬁnal evaluation. The player with the most prestige points 
after the ﬁnal evaluation wins the game. In the event of a tie, there will be more than one winner.
Rules for the professional version
The professional version of the game is played according to the same basic rules, but with the addition of two new elements: 
“Recruit buyers“ and ”House of the lighted windows“. It is set up as described under point 8 on the crib sheet. 
Recruit buyers
Before placing a buyer on a space on the board, the player must 
ﬁrst pay the amount printed on that space into the kitty. He is 
then entitled to take 2 buyer cards from the top-up pile.
House of the lighted windows
If a player places a buyer on a vacant space in the house of the 
lighted windows, he must either:
• pay 4 Asari and take the top 3 lighted windows from the 
stack. He then secretly selects 1 of these and places it be-
hind his screen 
or 
• pay 10 Asari and take the top 5 lighted windows from the 
stack. He then secretly selects 2 of these and places them 
behind his screen. 
The colour of the cards has no bearing on the price in either 
case. The discarded windows are placed face down at the 
 bottom of the pile in any order. 
In the ﬁnal evaluation, the players are awarded 
 prestige points for their towers. 
• For each tower colour, determine which player 
has built the highest and second highest tower 
(in terms of the number of tower sections). 
The players then receive prestige points as 
 illustrated on the right.
Points are awarded as follows:
• and 4 prestige points respectively for the highest 
or second highest tower overall (in terms of the 
number of tower sections), regardless of colour
• 12 and 6 prestige points respectively for the lar-
gest or second largest number of towers overall,
• 1 prestige point for every 10 Asari.
Highest / second highest tower (per colour)
Brown
Green
Red
Black
White
4 / 2 
6 / 3 
8 / 4 
10 / 5 
12 / 6 

The colour of the chosen lighted window is important. For 
tower building purposes, the lighted window is counted as 
normal among the number of sections. However, it can 
only be placed on an existing closed window of the same 
colour, and does not increase the height of the tower. Con-
sequently, it does not count as a separate tower section, 
but earns the player 1 prestige point in the normal way. 
At each end-of-year evaluation, the players receive 1 pre-
stige point for each lighted window they have used, as in 
the case of gold decorations. If a gold decoration is covered 
by a lighted window, it is cancelled out.
At the ﬁnal evaluation, the lighted windows decide the 
winner in the event of a tie. The player with the most ligh-
ted windows in the tower in question is placed higher in 
the ranking. In the event of a further tie, the points are 
shared out as usual. 
This rule applies to: 
• the evaluation for each colour (whereby only the 
 lighted towers in the relevant tower are counted)
• the highest tower overall (whereby only the lighted 
towers in the relevant tower are counted)
• the number of towers (whereby all the player’s 
 lighted windows are counted)
Example of ﬁnal evaluation
Wertung der meisten Türme insgesamt
Wertung höchster Turm insgesamt
1st place 2nd place
1st place 2nd place
This is the status of the players’ towers at the end of the game. 
Wolfgang and Philipp have each built 5 towers.
The black towers contain the same 
number of sections
Evaluation for brown towers
Evaluation for green towers
Evaluation for red towers
Evaluation for black towers
Evaluation for white towers
All red towers contain the 
same number of sections
The black towers belonging 
to Philipp and Tina contain 
the same number of sections
The white towers belonging 
to Philipp and Tina contain 
the same number of sections
Tied 1st place
Tied 1st place
Tied 2nd place
R
o
u
n
d
e
d
 
u
p
3 towers
Tied 2nd place = 
2 players ( Wolfgang + Philipp)
Tied 1st place = 
2nd place
2nd place
No 2nd 
place
No 2nd place
© 2010 Ravensburger Spieleverlag

© 2010 Ravensburger Spieleverlag
Ravensburger Spieleverlag GmbH · Postfach 2460 · D-88194 Ravensburg
Distr. CH: Carlit + Ravensburger AG · Grundstr. 9 · CH-5436 Würenlos
Jeux Ravensburger S.A.S. · 21 rue de Dornach · F-68120 Pfastatt
Ravensburger S.p.A. · Via Enrico Fermi, 20 · I-20090 Assago (Mi)
Ravensburger Ltd · Unit 1, Avonbury Business Park · Howes Lane · BICESTER · OX26 2UB, GB
Ravensburger B.V. · Postbus 289 · NL-3800 AG Amersfoort
www.ravensburger.com
000000