The Second World War in Asia, 1941 – 1945
RULE BOOK

INTRODUCTION:
Asia Engulfed (AE) is a strategic simulation of the Second World 
War in Asia. Each player makes decisions that will affect the war. 
You decide where and how the major battles of the war will be 
fought. To reflect luck and local combat leader initiative, dice are 
used to resolve these battles. Ultimately each player’s skill and grand 
strategy will determine the outcome of the war.
Asia Engulfed is a two-player game. One player controls the Allied 
side representing the USA, the Commonwealth, China, the Philip-
pines, and the Dutch East Indies (DEI) while the other player controls 
the Japanese Empire. Soviet forces are not represented when playing 
AE by itself, but are represented when AE is combined with Europe 
Engulfed (EE). Up to five players may play the combined game by 
adding the players recommended for EE.
Throughout the rules, you will find references to other rules e.g. 
[9.44]. These references may be ignored as you read through the 
rules. They are provided, along with the Table of Contents, the Key 
Terms and Concepts section (page 2), and the Index, to help you find 
any desired rule when you refer back to the rulebook.
TABLE OF CONTENTS:
1.0 Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 4
	 1.1 Japanese Player-Turn
	 1.2 Allied Player-Turn
	 1.3 Turn Advancement Phase
2.0 Strategic Warfare. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 5
	 2.1 ASW and the Submarine Campaign
	 2.2 ASW Table 
	 2.3 Submarine Attack Table
	 2.4 Strategic Air War
	 2.5 Loss of Strategic Airbases
3.0 Supply. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 6
	 3.1 General Rules
	 3.2 Area Types and Control
	 3.3 Supply Sources
	 3.4 Supply Paths Across Sea-Zones
	 3.5 Japanese Supply Network
	 3.6 Effects of Being Out of Supply
	 3.7 Changing Supply Status
	 3.8 Final Supply Determination Phase
4.0 Production. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 7
	 4.1 General Rules
	 4.2 Units & Markers
	 4.3 Replacements
	 4.4 Producing New Units
	 4.5 Japanese Replacements/Garrisons and Sea-Transport
	 4.6 Production Protocol and Limits
	 4.7 Production over Time
	 4.8 Partisans
5.0 Ground & LBA Movement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 11
	 5.1 Operational Movement Phases
	 5.2 Strategic Movement Phases (Strat-Moves)
	 5.3 Sea-Transport
	 5.4 Stacking Limits
6.0 Ground Combat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 13
	 6.1 General Rules
	 6.2 Round of Combat Procedure
	 6.3 Combat Options
	 6.4 Summary of Ground Unit Hit-Bonuses
	 6.5 Air Units
	 6.6 Breakthrough Combat Phases
	 6.7 Terrain Effects on Combat
	 6.8 Field Fortifications
7.0 Special Actions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 14
	 7.1 General Rules
	 7.2 Amphibious Invasion
	 7.3 Breakthrough Combat Phases
	 7.4 Extended Naval Operations
	 7.5 Japanese Extensive Rebasing
	 7.6 US Code Breaking
	 7.7 Chinese Nationalist Attack
	 7.8 Unrestricted Replacements
	 7.9 Special Action Uses from EE that do not apply in AE
8.0 Naval Operations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 16
	 8.1 General Rules
	 8.2 Naval Movement Phase
	 8.3 Naval Interception
	 8.4 Naval Combat
	 8.5 Submarine Units and Combat
	 8.6 Damage Resolution
	 8.7 Port/Airbase Attacks
	 8.8 Naval Rebasing
9.0 Nation Specific Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 20
	 9.1 Japan
	 9.2 USA
	 9.3 The Commonwealth
	 9.4 China
	 9.5 Minor Powers (DEI & the Philippines)
10.0 Conquest & Victory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 22
	 10.1 National Conquest
	 10.2 Conquered Territory Control
	 10.3 Victory Conditions
	 10.4 Bidding for Sides
11.0 Player Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book
12.0 Designers’ Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book
13.0 Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book
14.0 Extended Examples of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book
15.0 Scenarios. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book
16.0 AE & EE Combined Game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Play Book

GAME COMPONENTS:
Your copy of Asia Engulfed should include the following:
•	 134 Wooden Blocks, as follows:
Block Color	
Number
	 Japanese Land Units	
Orange	
	 Japanese Marine Units	
Burnt Orange	
	 Japanese Naval Fleets	
Black	
	 USA Land Units	
Olive Green	
	 USA Marine Units	
Dark Green	
	 The Commonwealth Land Units	
Dark Blue	
	 Chinese Units	
Purple	
	 Allied Naval Fleets	
White	
	 Minor Power Units	
Brown	
•	 One Rule Book (this book)
•	 One Play Book
•	 One Mapsheet
•	 One Battle Board
•	 Two Air Commitment Displays
•	 Die-cut labels to be peeled & affixed to the wooden blocks
•	 24 six-sided Dice (12 each of two different colors)
•	 228 die-cut 9/16” square markers (two of these are for EE)
•	 68 die-cut round markers
•	 One Getting Started Card
•	 Two Player-Aid Cards (11 x 17)
Note that extra blocks have been included, so the block count may 
be higher than listed. Extra labels have also been provided in 
case they are needed. If any of these components are missing or 
damaged, write to the following address:
GMT Games
P.O. Box 1308
Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
The designers and GMT Games authorize and permit the holder 
of this rulebook to make one photocopy of the label sheets and the 
counter sheets for personal use.
KEY TERMS & CONCEPTS:
Areas and Sea-zones: Areas are the named game spaces represent-
ing the land regions of the Asian theatre. There are three types; Large 
Areas [3.21], Port Boxes [3.22], and Island Boxes [3.23]. Sea-zones 
are the named game spaces representing the ocean segments. 
Battle Board: This Player-Aid is provided to help in resolving 
naval combats.
Blocks, Units, and Fleets: Once the labels have been applied [see 
the Getting Started Card], the blocks included in the game represent 
ground units and fleets. When a rule refers to ‘blocks’, it refers to 
both types; when it refers to ‘units’, it refers to both air units (die-cut 
counters with overhead airplane views) and ground units (but not 
the die-cut submarine unit, which is always mentioned specifically 
by name when a rule pertains to it). When it refers to fleets, it is 
applied to the naval blocks. If a rule applies to a smaller subset, it 
will name the type(s) affected.
Build Markers: These are used to track construction over time of 
fleets, ASW, and Japanese air units [4.71].
Cadre: A ground unit that has only one step remaining is considered 
to be at cadre level.
Contested Area: A contested area is one in which both sides have 
ground units. The side that was the last sole-occupant controls each 
contested area.
Fleets: Each block representing 1-4 naval steps is referred to as a 
fleet [4.24].
Force Pool: All the fleets, units, and Special Actions available for 
construction by a given Power. As fleets / units are destroyed and 
Special Actions are expended, they are returned to this pool.
Ground Units: Each block representing 1-4 steps of ground forces 
is referred to as a ground unit [4.22], as well as the die-cut garrison 
markers [4.28].
Hit-bonus: A Hit-bonus is a modifier that makes it easier for you to 
hit what you are shooting at. Usually you need to roll a 6 on a die to 
score a hit. Each Hit-bonus received adds one to the number rolled 
on each affected die, thus making it easier to hit. With one Hit-bonus 
you would hit on a 5 or 6, with two Hit-bonuses you would hit on 
a 4 through 6, etc.
Holding Boxes: Each Aircraft Carrier (CV) fleet is identified by a 
letter or number and has a corresponding holding box on the map. 
Carrier Based Air (CBA) units attached to the CV fleet are placed in 
these boxes so the opposing player will not be able to determine the 
exact location of the CV fleet. Each side also has an Orphan CBA 
holding box, which is where CBA units without a carrier remain 
until they can be based on a CV fleet. Each side also has a holding 
box for its submarine unit when not deployed.
Home Areas: Home areas are the core areas of a Nation where new 
units are built and to which supply is traced. Home areas for each 
Nation are those within their original borders, and they are shaded 
the appropriate color on the map (orange for Japan, green for USA, 
etc.). Port boxes and island boxes are not considered home areas. 
Non-home large areas aligned with each country have the same color 
code as their home areas, but are identified by having a diagonal 
striping pattern within them. 
Home Ports: Represented by a larger golden anchor, these are major 
ports to which the owning player may return his fleets after a combat 
or during the Rebasing Phase regardless of distance. 
Influence Levels: These represent the influence projected by each 
player into sea-zones, and the effect of such influence on the enemy 
player’s naval movement, strat-moves, and sea-supply. Influence is 
in one of three levels as follows, in order of least to most effective: 
Noninfluenced, Limited, and Dominant [8.13]. 
Japanese Home Islands: The Japanese home islands consist of 
Honshu, Shikoku, and Kyushu. All new Japanese units must appear 
in these areas.
Major Powers: These are the main combatants, each with its own 
production level and Force Pool. The Major Powers and their block 
colors are: Japan (land-orange, naval-black), China (purple), The 
Commonwealth (land-dark blue, naval-white), and the USA (land-
green, naval-white).
Minor Powers: The Minor Powers within Asia Engulfed are the 
Dutch East Indies (DEI), also known as the Netherlands East Indies, 
and the Philippines, both represented by brown blocks, except that 
the DEI fleet uses a white block.

Newly Contested Area: A newly contested area is one that has be-
come contested as a result of the just completed Movement Phase. 
An area may be newly contested more than once over the course of 
the game, providing that each time it was solely occupied by one 
side and then entered by the other.
Oil Points: Oil points are used to track the strategic oil reserves 
maintained by Japan. The maximum number of oil points Japan may 
accumulate is 40. Oil is needed to move Japanese fleets. Oil is not 
tracked for the Allies, as they produced 60% of the world’s output 
at the time and did not suffer from any serious shortages.
Special Actions: These are the die-cut round markers with the words 
“Special Action” written on them. These represent concentrated 
supply/leadership resources and the operational skill to put them to 
best use. They can be expended for special offensive or defensive 
operations [7.2-7.8].
Steps: Steps are the increments by which blocks are built-up by 
production/replacements, and depleted by combat losses. If a multi-
step block suffers a hit, reduce its current step value by turning it 90 
degrees counter-clockwise. If a unit with only one step remaining 
suffers a hit, it is eliminated and returned to its Force Pool. Ground 
units have maximum step values from one to four while fleets have 
maximum values of three or four. Air units and submarine units 
have two steps and their counters are flipped to show a step-loss 
and removed to the Force Pool if an already reduced counter suf-
fers a step-loss.
Straits: Straits are narrow bodies of water separating two land areas. 
They affect both movement [5.16] and combat [6.73]. Straits are 
marked on the map with a connection arrow.
Strat-move: An abbreviation for Strategic Movement [5.2].
Strategic Air Bases: Land areas [3.2] that contain a printed airfield 
symbol. These represent strategic air bases that are within strategic 
bomber range of Japan.
Strategic Assets: All strategic assets of both sides are represented 
with markers on the General Information Track. These include 
bomber points and submarine points (not the submarine unit [4.25]) 
for the USA, and oil points and the current ASW level for the Japa-
nese. As these assets are produced, consumed, or destroyed, their 
current value is adjusted by moving the corresponding marker to the 
appropriate number on this track (see game map). The maximum 
number of bomber points that the USA player can have is 20. USA 
submarine points and Japanese oil points can be accumulated up to 
40 points by turning the appropriate counter over to its +20 side. 
Transport Points: Naval transport forces for the Japanese player are 
represented in the game as transport points. These points are used 
to establish Japan’s Supply Network each turn, with any remaining 
points being available to transport units and/or replacement steps. 
Transport Points not used in a given turn do not have any effect 
on Transport Capacity for future turns. In game terms, the Allies 
never suffered a serious shortage of transports and do not need to 
track this. 
Troop Transports: Ground units and Land Based Air (LBA) units may 
move into sea-zones using sea-transport [5.3]. These units are loaded on 
troop transports [8.12] and are treated as fleets while at sea.
WERP(s): Pronounced “wurps”, this is an acronym meaning War-
time Economic Resource Point(s). These points measure a nation’s 
military industrial output for the Pacific Theater of the Second 
World War.
1.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Game turns generally represent two months of historical time and 
are broken into Phases as outlined below. These Phases must be 
completed in the order presented. Portions of the turn that are unique 
to the Japanese Player-turn are shown in bold italics. 
1.1 JAPANESE PLAYER-TURN
(The Japanese player is the Phasing Player, and completes 1.11 
through 1.19 below while the Allied Player is the Non-phasing 
Player).
The Japanese Transports Available marker is reset to equal the 
Japanese Transport Capacity to begin the new turn.
1.11 NAVAL MOVEMENT PHASE: The Phasing Player moves 
his fleets and troop transports [5.3 & 8.12] as follows:
a) One destination sea-zone at a time, the Phasing Player moves 
his fleets and troop transports into the sea-zone following the naval 
movement rules [8.2].
b) After the Phasing Player completes movement into the destination 
sea-zone, the Non-phasing Player has the option to make a naval 
reaction with his fleets and/or submarine unit [8.25]. If the Non-phas-
ing Player reacts with one or more fleets, the Phasing Player may 
add his own submarine unit to the sea-zone. Repeat steps (a) & (b) 
until the Phasing Player has no more naval moves to make.
c) Total the number of Japanese fleets that moved or reacted, and 
adjust the Japanese Oil Reserve marker on the General Informa-
tion Track accordingly. The number of transport points used is 
calculated by totaling the number of troop transports at sea and 
adjusting the Transports Available marker accordingly. Japanese 
marine units that move two sea-zones may use either an oil point 
or a transport point. When they move three sea-zones they must 
use an oil point. Transport points do not use oil points.
1.12 INITIAL SUPPLY DETERMINATION PHASE: The Phas-
ing Player follows the steps below to determine supply:
a) For Jul/Aug game turns, jungle effects are resolved [6.72].
b) The Japanese Player selects the sea-zones he wishes to have in 
his Supply Network [3.5], then adjusts the Transports Available 
marker to reflect transports used for the supply net.
c) The Phasing Player’s units are checked to determine their supply 
status [3.1-3.5]. Units that are determined to be out of supply are 
marked with an ‘Out of Supply’ marker. 
1.13 PRODUCTION PHASE: The Phasing Player calculates 
available WERPs, resolves strategic warfare effects, then spends 
any remaining WERPs to purchase replacement steps and/or new 
items according to the production rules [4.0].
1.14 AIR & NAVAL COMBAT PHASE: Naval interception [8.3], 
naval combat [8.4], and port/airbase attacks [8.7] are resolved com-
pletely, one sea-zone at a time, in the order chosen by the Phasing 
Player. Submarine units also fire during this phase [8.5].
1.15 OPERATIONAL MOVEMENT PHASE: The Phasing 
Player’s ground and LBA units may move during this phase using the 
rules for operational movement [5.1]. Units performing Amphibious 
Invasions [7.2] are moved from the sea-zone they remain in from 
the Air & Naval Combat Phase onto the area(s) to be invaded, and 
any necessary Special Actions are spent. The invasion(s) will not 
be resolved until the Ground Combat Phase.

then subtracted from Japan’s WERPs and Oil Points (each) received 
for the current turn (but the 5 WERPs and 1 Oil Point received for 
Honshu each turn may not be affected by submarine warfare). Any 
WERP or oil point losses above those received in the current turn 
are ignored. The number indicated is also subtracted from Japan’s 
transport capacity. The current turn’s Supply Network and available 
transport points marked on the General Information Track from the 
Initial Supply Phase are not affected. The effect of the lost transport 
capacity will not be felt until the following Game Turn.
2.13 If there are enough submarine points remaining on the track 
after submarine warfare is resolved, Japanese strat-moves [5.2] will 
be adversely affected. Each multiple of 10 (rounded down) subma-
rine points subtracts one from the Japanese strat-move allowance 
for the current turn. Japanese strat-moves cannot be reduced to less 
than their current ASW level. 
EXAMPLE: If the current Japanese ASW Level is one, submarine 
warfare may not reduce Japan to less than one strat-move.
2.14 US TORPEDO ISSUES: Faults with US torpedoes affected 
the submarine fleet’s effectiveness until they were remedied. To 
reflect this, the US Dud Torpedoes marker begins on the General 
Information Track as specified by the scenario (for the campaign 
game it starts at 6). Each time a 1, 2, or 3 is rolled on the Submarine 
Attack Table move the marker down one space. When it reaches zero 
US torpedo issues are resolved and all future rolls on the Submarine 
Attack Table receive a +1 hit-bonus.
2.2 ASW Table
	
Die	
	
Current ASW Level
	 Roll	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The number shown is the number of submarine points that are 
eliminated.
2.3 Submarine Attack Table
	
Die	
	
	 Submarine Points
	 Roll	
1-8	
9-16	
17-24	
25-32	
33+
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The number shown represents the number of WERPs, oil points, and 
transport capacity (each) lost by the Japanese player. 
- Move US Dud Torpedoes marker down one for each roll of 1-3.
- Add one to die roll if US Dud Torpedoes marker has reached 
zero.
1.16 STRATEGIC MOVEMENT PHASE: A certain number 
[5.24] of the Phasing Player’s ground and/or air units may be moved 
using the rules for strategic movement [5.2].
1.17 GROUND COMBAT PHASE(S)
a) Initial Combat Phase: A single round of ground combat is fought 
in areas where combat is desired or required [6.2]. Ground combats 
that are initiated in this phase do not require the expenditure of a 
Special Action.
b) Breakthrough Combat Phase(s): The Phasing Player may conduct 
one or more Breakthrough Combat Phases by expending Special 
Actions [6.6]. Breakthrough Combat Phases may occur in any order 
the Phasing Player desires and more than one may occur per area.
1.18 REBASING PHASE: All fleets and troop transports still at sea, 
plus any overstacked marine units that participated in an amphibi-
ous invasion, and fleets that are in an out-of-supply port must now 
rebase [8.8]. The Non-phasing Player’s fleets at sea return to port 
before the Phasing Player’s. Phasing Player (only) fleets that did 
not move this turn may also rebase (previously unmoved Japanese 
fleets must use oil to rebase).
1.19 FINAL SUPPLY DETERMINATION PHASE: All the 
Phasing Player’s areas, units, and fleets are then checked for supply 
status. Units and fleets that are found to be without at least Partial 
Supply [3.35] are eliminated (even those that were in-supply dur-
ing the Initial Supply Determination Phase earlier) and placed in 
the Force Pool.
1.2 ALLIED PLAYER-TURN
Phases 1.11-1.19 (except those in bold italics) are repeated, with 
the Allied player as the Phasing Player and the Japanese player as 
the Non-phasing Player. 
1.3 TURN ADVANCEMENT PHASE
Check for any automatic victory; if none was achieved the turn 
marker is advanced to the next turn, and a new game turn begins.
2.0 STRATEGIC WARFARE
Strategic Warfare represents the USA’s attacks on Japan’s produc-
tion capability via submarines and strategic bombers and is resolved 
during the Japanese Production Phase, after total WERPs have been 
determined. Submarine warfare is mandatory if the USA has at least 
one submarine point on the General Information Track. Strategic 
air warfare is also mandatory if the USA player has any bomber 
points on the General Information Track AND controls at least one 
supplied strategic air base.
2.1 ASW and the Submarine Campaign
The Japanese player is assigned a starting ASW (Anti-Submarine 
Warfare) level and the USA player is assigned his beginning number 
of submarine points in the set-up instructions for each scenario. 
These starting levels may be increased by production and decreased 
(submarines only) by strategic warfare.
2.11 The submarine portion of strategic warfare is begun by the 
Japanese player rolling on the ASW Table [2.2], and cross-referenc-
ing the die roll with the current ASW level. The indicated result is 
the number of USA submarine points that are eliminated.
2.12 The USA player then rolls a die on the Submarine Attack Table 
[2.3] and cross-references the die roll with the column corresponding 
to the remaining number of submarine points. The indicated result is 

3.24 PORTS: Anchor symbols are used to indicate which areas have 
ports [but see 5.17]. Ports affect replacements [4.32], and are also 
used for basing fleets, strat-moving ground units, and for project-
ing supply inland from a coastal area [3.4]. Many ports lie on the 
boundary between two or more sea-zones allowing access to each 
of those zones. Ports within port and island boxes adjoin each sea-
zone the box itself adjoins. Areas without ports may not base fleets. 
Ports come in four sizes that determine how many fleets may base 
there and the number of anti-aircraft (AA) dice provided when the 
port is being attacked [8.7].
	
Port Size	
Fleets Allowed	
AA Dice	
	
Small	
	
Medium	
	
Large	
	
Home	
Unlimited 	
3.25 CONTROLLED AREA: Either the Japanese or the Allies 
control all non-neutral areas on the map. The player that was the last 
sole-occupant controls each area. The areas that begin each scenario 
friendly-controlled by each side are identified in the scenario instruc-
tions. Enemy-controlled areas are converted to friendly-controlled 
at the instant they are occupied solely by friendly ground unit(s), 
except for areas taken by an uncontested Amphibious Invasion or 
an uncontested Airborne Assault [13.4], which are not converted 
until the end of the Ground Combat Phase.
3.3 Supply Sources
For each Power, supply is generated within a friendly-controlled 
home large area [3.21], even if contested. Exceptions to this general 
rule can be found in 3.31-3.35 below.
3.31 The Chinese Nationalist Supply Sources are any Chinese-con-
trolled resource area(s) in China except Hong Kong. 
3.32 Chinese Communist units are always in supply and do not 
require a Supply Source.
3.33 DEI and Philippine units are always in supply. DEI units cannot 
move from their areas of initial placement and the Philippine unit 
cannot leave the Philippines. The DEI fleet traces supply and acts 
as a Commonwealth fleet.
3.34 Hawaii and friendly-controlled home areas of Australia also act 
as home areas to USA units for supply purposes only.
3.35 PARTIAL SUPPLY SOURCES: For all Powers, units in port 
boxes and garrison units (only) in island boxes always have at least 
partial supply. Additionally, Luzon, French Indo-China, and Man-
chukuo are Partial Supply Sources for the side that controls them. 
Units that cannot trace full supply but can trace to one of these areas 
receive partial supply. Units in partial supply function normally with 
the exception that they may not receive any Hit-bonuses (attack or 
defense) except for Banzai attacks [9.14] until full supply has been 
restored [3.1].
3.4 Supply Paths Across Sea-Zones
Units may trace a supply path as in 3.1 above to a friendly-controlled 
port, then trace across one or more contiguous sea-zones to another 
friendly-controlled port, then follow a second land supply path to 
a Supply Source, assuming the sea-zones traced through are all 
in supply. Units on a coastal area need not trace to a port initially 
(even if the coastline is marked as impassable), but still trace sup-
ply through the adjacent sea-zone and beyond to a Supply Source 
port as above. Only one leg of any Supply Path may be by sea, but 
2.4 Strategic Air War
Strategic bombing is conducted by the USA player 
against Japan. The USA may not launch a bombing 
raid unless they currently control at least one supplied 
strategic airbase. Bomber points are used for bombing 
raids and may be used once per turn. Up to two bomber points may 
be launched from each Allied-controlled and supplied strategic 
airbase, but not above the number of bomber points that the US has 
produced as shown on the General Information Track.
2.41 BOMBING RESOLUTION: One die is rolled for each bomber 
point. Each roll of a 4, 5, or a 6 scores a hit. Each hit scored will 
reduce Japan’s production for this turn by one WERP. 
2.42 MAXIMUM BOMBING DAMAGE: Bombers may not inflict 
more than 5 hits on the Japanese production in any one Game Turn. 
Bombing affects only the 5 WERPs on Honshu and may reduce 
the total Japanese WERPs available to zero (provided submarine 
warfare took them down to five and that five hits were scored in 
the Game Turn’s bombing raid). Oil points are never affected by 
strategic bombing.
2.5 Loss of Strategic Airbases
Any Allied-controlled strategic airbase that is captured by the Japa-
nese immediately causes the loss of one bomber point, if it is on the 
General Information Track to be lost.
3.0 SUPPLY
3.1 General Rules
Areas, units, fleets, and sea-zones may either be in full supply 
(hereafter referred to as “in supply”), “in partial supply”, or “out of 
supply”. To be in supply, each area, unit, fleet, sea-zone, or marker 
must trace a path of continuous friendly-controlled areas to a Sup-
ply Source for the controlling Power. Supply may be traced across 
both impassable boundaries and straits, and may be into or through 
a friendly-controlled contested area. Supply may be traced out of an 
enemy-controlled contested area, but never through one. See also 
supply through sea-zones [3.4].
3.2 Area Types and Control
There are three types of land areas (large areas, port boxes, & island 
boxes). Whether or not the area is contested, the presence or lack 
of a port, and which player controls the area, all have a bearing on 
supply. These concepts are defined below.
3.21 LARGE AREAS: These are the land areas that are not drawn 
as small rectangles or circles (including the USA and South Africa 
areas).
3.22 PORT BOXES: These rectangles represent either larger islands 
or key ports that act as separate areas. Units in friendly-controlled 
port boxes receive partial supply [3.35] if they cannot trace a valid 
Supply Path.
3.23 ISLAND BOXES: These represent the tiny islands scattered 
across the Pacific that were used for bases. Island boxes are repre-
sented on the map by a circular disk printed over the island. Gar-
rison units (only) in friendly-controlled island boxes receive partial 
supply if they cannot trace a valid Supply Path. Japanese garrison 
units receiving partial supply should be flipped over to denote that 
they are acting as Militia instead of infantry.

it may traverse multiple sea-zones. The US player may also trace 
supply around Australia [9.25]. Sea-zones are considered in supply 
if all of the following conditions are met:
a) The enemy Player does not have Dominant Influence over any 
sea-zone that supply is traced into or through [8.13].
b) For the Japanese player, he has also allocated transport points to 
put the sea-zone into his Supply Network [3.5].
3.5 Japanese Supply Network
During the Initial Supply Determination Phase, the Japanese player 
must place Supply Network Markers in each sea-zone he wishes to 
have supplied in the current turn. For players that prefer more speed 
and simplicity at the expense of realism, see the optional simplified 
Japanese transport and supply rules [13.1].
3.51 PROCEDURE: Each sea-zone on the map is marked with 
one, two, or three transport icons under the sea-zone’s name. Place 
a ‘Supply Network 1’ marker in a sea-zone with one transport icon, 
a ‘2’ marker in a sea-zone with two icons, and a ‘3’ marker in a 
sea-zone with three icons. This number represents the number of 
transport points needed to supply the indicated zone. To place a 
marker, or to keep a previously placed marker in its sea-zone, the 
following conditions must be met:
a) The Allied player may not have Dominant Influence [8.13] in the 
sea-zone [exception—Submarine Supply 3.52].
b) A contiguous path of Supply Network markers exists tracing back 
to Japan from the sea-zone desired.
c) Transport Capacity is sufficient to cover all the sea-zones in the 
current network.
The Japanese player adjusts the network as needed by adding and/or 
subtracting Supply Network Markers so that the above conditions 
are met for his entire Supply Network. The ‘Transports Available’ 
marker is then adjusted to reflect the deduction of transport points 
needed for this network, including all markers that remain from 
previous turns (do not include any sea-zone covered by the sub-
marine unit [3.52] in this total). Any remaining transport points are 
available for the Production and Strat-move Phases of the current 
Player Turn.
3.52 JAPANESE SUBMARINE SUPPLY: The Japanese player 
may use his submarine unit to augment the Supply Net-
work. A 2-step submarine unit can cover a one or a two 
transport point sea-zone, while a 1-step submarine unit 
can cover a one transport point sea-zone. A submarine 
unit used in this way has no effect other than to be a part of the Sup-
ply Network, and may be placed per the normal rules for transport 
point placement, except that it may ignore the restrictions on Allied 
Dominant Influence [3.51]. The submarine must cover one sea-zone 
by itself, and may not combine with transport points to accomplish 
this. Supply may be traced into and through the sub-supplied zone. 
The submarine cannot be attacked and it cannot be used for combat 
or any other purpose for the entire Game Turn. Place the ‘Submarine 
Supply’ marker over the submarine unit in the supplied sea-zone to 
denote its use in this role.
3.6 Effects of Being Out of Supply
Ground and LBA units that are out of supply may only move one 
area during the Operational Movement Phase; may not strat-move; 
and may not receive replacements. Out of supply ground units defend 
normally, but roll half the total dice allowed when attacking (rounded 
down). Out of supply LBA units may not participate in combat (at-
tack or defense) nor may they move across a sea-zone [5.13]. Out 
of supply fleets and CBA units function normally except that they 
must be in a supplied port by the end of the Player-turn 
or face elimination in the Final Supply Determination 
Phase. Mark units that are out of supply with an out of 
supply marker.
3.7 Changing Supply Status
The supply status each unit has in the Initial Supply Determination 
Phase remains in effect until the Final Supply Determination Phase. 
Units marked out of supply that did NOT move during the friendly 
Player-turn need only conduct a normal supply trace to restore sup-
ply. Out of supply units that DID move in the friendly Player-turn 
(flip the out of supply marker over to its ‘moved’ side) must addition-
ally occupy a friendly-controlled area. Out of supply units must be 
kept separate from supplied units assisting in their breakout attempt, 
as the supplied units do not suffer from rules 3.6 or 3.8.
3.8 Final Supply Determination Phase
All friendly areas, units, and fleets are checked for supply. All fleets 
and any units that are out of supply (whether marked out of supply 
or not) are eliminated, except for units tracing to a Partial Supply 
Source [3.35]. 
4.0 PRODUCTION
4.1 General Rules
New units are produced and replacements are purchased during 
the Production Phase of each turn. WERPs are received for home 
resource areas and (Japanese player only) some captured resource 
areas [4.11], minus strategic warfare effects. Except for Honshu 
(5 WERPs) and the USA home area (variable [9.22]) all resource 
areas are worth one WERP. WERPs cannot be saved, and strategic 
warfare damage does not carry over from turn to turn. Oil areas are 
worth one or two oil points per turn, as indicated by the number 
within each oil area.
4.11 Only the Japanese player receives WERPs and oil points for 
captured resources. The Japanese player receives WERPs and oil 
points for each controlled and occupied resource / oil area outside of 
Japan that is within Japan’s Supply Network. The Commonwealth 
receives WERPs for originally controlled areas (blue) that are 
friendly-controlled; they need not be occupied. The USA receives 
WERPS only from the USA home area. The Chinese Nationalists 
receive WERPs for any resource areas in China (except Hong Kong) 
that they control and occupy. Chinese Communists do not receive 
any WERPs for any resource areas (instead they receive one free 
step of infantry or militia per turn).
4.12 Resource and oil areas under enemy-control or unable to trace 
to a Supply Source for the producing Nation do not count for pro-
duction. Contested resource areas that are friendly-controlled and 
supplied do count towards production. 
4.13 The DEI never receives any production regardless of how many 
resource and oil areas they control.

Land Based Air
Submarines
4.14 PRODUCTION CHART
WERP Base Production
	 Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5+	
	 (Plus 1 WERP for each supplied, controlled and occupied 
resource area outside of Japan)
	 The Commonwealth. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8*	
	 (3 India, 1 South Africa, 2 Australia, 1 Singapore, 1 Hong 
Kong)
	 USA (Home Area) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Variable
	 (5 in 1941; 20 in 1942; 25 in 1943; 30 in 1944 and 1945 
[9.22]) 
	 China . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2**	
	 (China has five resource areas, of which Peking, Manchukuo, 
and Shanghai start out occupied by Japan. These will contribute 
to the Nationalist Chinese production if retaken and otherwise 
eligible [4.11])
	 Philippines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1	
	 (May only be used for their militia unit while Luzon is 
friendly-controlled and the Philippines has not been conquered 
[9.56])
	 DEI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0	
	 (1 production area but DEI receives no production)
OIL Base Production
	 Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1	
	 (Plus the indicated oil points for each supplied, controlled, and 
occupied oil area outside of Japan)
* Remember to subtract three WERPs for Europe [9.31]
** Plus one free step of Communist forces per turn [9.42].
4.2 Units & Markers
There are numerous types of units, steps, and markers available for 
production, identified as follows:
4.21 AIR UNITS (LBA/CBA): These are the die-cut markers with 
overhead views of airplanes. They are color coded to match the 
ground units of each Nation. They come in two types: Land Based 
Air (LBA), represented by round counters, and Carrier Based Air 
(CBA), represented by square counters. Any reference in the rules 
to the term ‘air units’ applies to both types. Rules specific to one 
type will identify the type affected within the rule. The number of 
counters provided for each country is the maximum that country can 
have in play. When based on CV fleets, CBA units are placed in the 
appropriate CV holding box; otherwise they remain in the Orphan 
CBA holding box awaiting a CV fleet to base upon. LBA units may 
not base on CV fleets.
4.22 GROUND UNITS: These are the square wooden blocks with 
the infantry, marine, and militia labels that are included in the game. 
Any reference in the rules to ‘ground units’ refers to these blocks 
(and garrison units [4.28]). These blocks are usually placed on edge, 
with the information facing away from your opponents, thereby 
providing a built-in limited intelligence system. The current step 
value of each unit should be along the topmost edge of the playing 
piece. The highest printed value on each label represents that unit 
at full strength. Marine units [4.26] and airborne units [13.4] have 
some special capabilities.
4.23 RULES REFERENCES TO UNITS: Any reference in the 
rules to ‘units’ applies to both air and ground units. If a rule applies 
to only one type, the specific type will be identified.
4.24 NAVAL STEPS AND FLEETS: Like ground units, naval 
forces are represented by wooden blocks. Any reference in the rules 
to ‘fleets’ refers to these wooden blocks. Fleets are always either in 
a sea-zone or in a port. There are three types of fleets: each Aircraft 
Carrier (CV) step within a fleet represents one Aircraft Carrier or 
2-3 light Carriers, each Battleship (BB) step represents about one 
Battleship, and each Cruiser (CA) step represents one Cruiser and 
one Light Cruiser. Each step also has an appropriate number of 
supporting craft (destroyers, etc.) for its type. Each step of Aircraft 
Carriers may base two steps of CBA (one full-strength unit or two 
cadres).
4.25 SUBMARINE UNITS: These round submarine units (one for 
each side) represent the tactical hunting groups of submarines used 
to combat the opponent’s fleets, not his transport ships.
4.26 MARINE UNITS: These are the Japanese and USA ground 
units that were specially trained and equipped for amphibious opera-
tions. They have the following special capabilities:
•	 Marine units may move as either ground units or fleets. 
•	 Marine units may launch Amphibious Invasions without the 
need of a Special Action.
•	 One marine unit is allowed to overstack in each amphibious 
invasion [7.2].
•	 American marine units were highly trained and fire with an 
inherent Hit-bonus.
4.27 MILITIA UNITS: These are weaker than normal infantry 
units in that they do not receive any Hit-bonuses [Exception—9.14], 
nor may they conduct Amphibious Invasions, but they are cheaper 
to build from scratch [note after 4.44]. Chinese militia may only 
fire when defending, though they may still absorb losses during an 
attack [9.46].
4.28 GARRISON UNITS: These are the die-cut counters showing a 
regiment (III) or Brigade (X) symbol. They represent smaller forma-
Carrier Based Air
Markers
Battleship
Cruiser
Carrier
Elite
Cruiser
Marines
Australian
Indian
Airborne
Militia

Dominant Influence
Limited
Influence
Control
tions and elements that were used to occupy the key villages, cross-
roads, and the various islands in the Pacific. Only one garrison unit 
may be built in each friendly-controlled, supplied, and uncontested 
area. Garrison units may not move once placed, and are not limited 
by the counter-mix (players may create more if needed). Except as 
otherwise noted, garrison units are treated as 1-step ground units, 
fighting as one step of infantry when in full supply, and as one step 
of militia [4.27] when not in full supply.
4.29 OTHER MARKERS: These are used to represent Special 
Actions, port damage, damaged naval steps, and various game 
concepts that need to be denoted by a marker. Damage (naval & 
port), field fortifications, and out of supply markers are not limited 
by the counter-mix (players may create more).
4.3 Replacements
Replacements are purchased to rebuild reduced ground and air 
units on the map. The cost for each step is on the Cost to Build 
Chart [4.44].
4.31 A unit must be in supply and in a friendly uncontested area to 
receive replacements [exception—7.8]. There must be room on the 
CV fleet for a CBA replacement to be taken (you could not replace 
a CBA for a 1-step fleet currently holding two CBA cadres).
4.32 If meeting the requirements of 4.31, units may receive as many 
steps in replacements per turn as the owning player can afford ex-
cept that a unit may not be increased to full strength (i.e., a 4-step 
unit may only be replaced up to the 3-step level) unless it is also 
in an area containing a supplied and undamaged port or in an area 
described in cases a-e below:
a) British units in South Africa, India, and Australia.
b) Australian and Indian units in their respective countries.
c) Chinese units in any area of China.
d) Japanese, USA, & Commonwealth via Special Action [7.8].
e) The Philippine unit in the Philippines
4.4 Producing New Units
Units that are currently available in a Nation’s Force Pool may be 
built (No Nation may build beyond the limits of its Force Pool). 
These units are paid for in the same manner as replacements (but see 
the note at the end of 4.44), and may be built at any strength level 
desired, even full-strength. After paying the WERP costs for each 
step desired, they appear as new units using the following rules:
4.41 New units appear in an uncontested [exception—9.42], friendly-
controlled home area as defined below with a limit of two new units 
per area per turn [exception—4.42]:
a) US new units appear in the USA home area (not Hawaii).
b) British new units appear in South Africa.
c) Commonwealth new units appear within their own country.
d) Chinese new units appear within China.
e) Japanese new units appear within Honshu, Kyushu, and Shi-
koku.
f) The Philippine unit appears within the Philippines. 
4.42 There is no limit to the number of naval steps placed in a home 
port, nor is there a limit on new units that the USA player may place 
in the USA home area. CBA units may be placed on a CV fleet with 
room for the CBA unit that is in a home port, otherwise they are 
placed in the Orphan CBA Holding Box until there is a CV fleet with 
room in their home port, or they can strat-move from the Orphan 
CBA holding box to a CV fleet with room for it [5.22].
4.43 Garrison units may be built in any friendly-controlled, uncon-
tested, and supplied land area [3.2]. For the Allies, the Power with the 
associated area color (Commonwealth blue; USA green) is the only 
Power which may produce a garrison during the Production Phase in 
that area. The Commonwealth (only) may also build garrison units in 
friendly-controlled DEI port and island boxes (only). Either Allied 
Power may build a garrison unit in a friendly-controlled area of the 
Japanese color. The Chinese, the Philippines, and the DEI may not 
build garrison units. Any Power with garrison units may also create 
a garrison unit in an uncontested, supplied, and friendly-controlled 
area with at least one infantry or marine unit by reducing a unit one 
step during a friendly Operational Movement or Combat Phase, 
regardless of the area color.
Field
Fortification
Port
Damaged
Ship
Damage
Out of
Supply
Oil
Reserves
Bomber
Points
in partial
supply
Honshu
ASW Level
VP Marker
Transport Network
Markers
Base WERPs
Marker
Contested
Marker
Special Action
Night Action
Day Action
Battle Marker
Avoid Marker
In Port Marker

4.44 COST TO BUILD CHART
	 Unit/Resource 	
WERP Cost
	 Garrison Unit	
	 Infantry/Militia Step 	
	 Japanese Marine Step	
	 USA Marine Step 	
	 LBA Step 	
	 CBA Step	
	 Bomber Point	
	 Submarine Point/Step	
	 ASW Improvement	
10	(1 per turn [4.62])
	 Aircraft Carrier Step	
4	 (1 per step per turn [4.7])
	 Battleship Step	
5	 (1 per step per turn [4.7])
	 Cruiser Step	
3	 (1 per step per turn [4.7])
	 Add Transport Point to Capacity	
1	 (1 per turn [4.7])
	 Field Fortification	
1/2/5*
	 Repair Damaged Port	
1	 (1 per port per turn [4.61])
	 Each Special Action	
	 *1 for an island box / 2 for a port box / 5 for a large area
Note: Except for militia units and garrison units, the cadre step, 
or initial step, of each new ground unit and CBA unit costs twice 
the normal amount (e.g. a new Japanese marine unit would cost 4 
WERPs for the initial step while an American marine would cost 6 
WERPs, while a new militia unit would only cost 1 WERP for each 
step). Fleets, submarine units, and LBA units do not pay double for 
the first step.
4.5 Japanese Replacements/Garrisons and Sea-Transport
Every four steps of replacements and/or garrison units added outside 
of Japan reduces the Japanese available transport points by one for 
that turn (round fractions up).
4.6 Production Protocol and Limits
Production is completed for one Nation at a time, except that WERP 
transfers between Nations [9.25] may be announced at any time. 
The producing Nation announces its WERP total, and then as each 
new item and each step of replacements is produced, the Nation an-
nounces its remaining total. The player does not have to announce or 
show what types of ground unit steps are purchased. In this manner, 
the limited intelligence aspect of production is preserved. Special 
Actions, air units, field fortifications, and anything produced on the 
General Information Track, the Japanese Air Production Track, & 
the Naval Production Tracks must be revealed as purchased. There 
is no limited intelligence for these items.
4.61 MUTUAL PRODUCTION LIMITS
•	 Air units in AE have two steps and no air unit may be produced 
at less than full-strength. 
•	 Both sides may repair ports at a rate of one WERP per port per 
turn [exception—8.72]. 
•	 Neither player may build naval steps beyond the limits repre-
sented by their build markers [4.71].
•	 When producing a replacement for a 1-step submarine unit 
that was deployed from the holding box before the Production 
Phase, the producing player may place the submarine replace-
ment marker in the submarine holding box. Then either flip 
the 1-step submarine unit over to its 2-step side, or return the 
submarine unit from the Force Pool if it was eliminated to the 
holding box on its 1-step side after the Air & Naval Combat 
Phase.
4.62 JAPANESE PRODUCTION LIMITS (per turn):
•	 Only two WERPs may be spent on the submarine unit.
•	 No more than three WERPs may be spent on air unit steps. 
These may be divided between points spent on the Air Produc-
tion Track using the three provided markers [4.71] and replace-
ment steps to existing reduced air units.
•	 Only one WERP per turn may be spent on ASW.
•	 Available WERPs are the only other limiting factor.
4.63 ALLIED PRODUCTION LIMITS (per turn):
•	 No more than two bomber points (USA only can build).
•	 No more than three submarine points / steps (USA only can 
build). These may be distributed between the General Infor-
mation Track and the American submarine unit as the Allied 
player desires. 
•	 Available WERPs are the only other limiting factor. 
4.7 Production Over Time
4.71 BUILD MARKERS: Naval steps (Aircraft Carriers, Battle-
ships, and Cruisers), Japanese air units, and ASW 
all take longer than a single turn to produce. Each of 
these items has a corresponding build marker that goes 
onto its Production Track (ASW goes on the General 
Information Track) as these units and steps are produced. Air re-
placement steps of both sides and Allied air units do not require 
build markers. 
4.72 CHOOSING THE BUILD TYPE: Naval production and Japa-
nese air unit markers are double-sided with (usually) a different type 
on each side. When a marker is added to an Air or Naval Production 
Track the player must decide which type of air unit or naval step is 
being built and may not alter his selection until the next time that 
marker is used to start a new unit or step. Production markers are 
added to the USA Force Pool at specific times [9.24]. 
4.73 BUILD RATE: All build markers may only be built (moved 
up the Track) at a rate of one WERP per turn. Note that a Japanese 
CBA unit takes three turns to build because the cadre costs two 
WERPs and the final step another WERP.
4.74 NAVAL BUILDS: At the completion of the Production Phase 
all naval build markers that have been built to full-strength are 
removed from their tracks and the appropriate naval step is either 
added to an appropriate reduced fleet in a friendly home port loca-
tion or a new fleet equal to the number of steps produced of the 
appropriate type is created in a home port (American naval steps 
must arrive in the USA home area, not Hawaii). If no reduced or 
new fleet of the appropriate type is available, the marker remains 
on the ‘Built’ space of the Production Track until the new step can 
legally be placed. Because new naval steps arrive after the Naval 
Movement Phase they must remain in port until the following turn 
unless rebasing [8.8] or reacting [8.25]. 
4.75 JAPANESE AIR BUILDS: Partially built air units may not 
be placed; they may only arrive at full-strength. If no 
appropriate air unit is available in the Force Pool, the 
marker remains on the ‘Built’ space of the Production 
Track until the air unit can legally be placed.

4.76 MARKER AVAILABILITY: A build marker may not be re-
used on the same turn that it completes production of a unit or step 
since it is not removed from the ‘built’ space until after production 
is complete. The build marker becomes available again on the next 
Production Phase. 
EXAMPLE: A Japanese CBA unit is produced over three turns: 
On the first turn, pay one WERP to place an available CBA build 
marker on the Japanese Air Build Track’s ‘1’ space. Next turn, pay 
one WERP to advance the marker to the ‘2’ space. In the third 
turn, pay one WERP to advance the marker to the ‘3 CBA built’ 
space. After all production has been finalized return the marker 
to the Force Pool and place the newly built 2-strength CBA in a 
holding box either belonging to a CV fleet that is in Honshu or the 
Orphan CBA holding box (an LBA unit would have been finished 
in two turns).
4.77 JAPANESE TRANSPORT CAPACITY: In order to add a 
transport point to capacity, the Japanese player must have the BB/
TR build marker available in his force pool and commit it towards 
building a transport capacity point this turn. 
Building a transport capacity point costs one 
WERP and it arrives at the end of the Produc-
tion Phase in which it was built.
4.8 Partisans
In order to avoid the partisan effects listed below, the Japanese must 
occupy, with a ground unit and/or a garrison unit, all conquered 
resource and oil areas outside their home country. A Chinese Na-
tionalist unit must occupy resource areas they control or they face 
the effects of partisans. The remaining Allied forces are not subject 
to partisans. If an above area is not occupied, the following rules 
come into effect:
a)	 An unoccupied resource or oil area noted above will not pro-
vide any WERPs or oil during the Production Phase.
b)	 Supply may not be traced into, out of, or through unoccupied 
resource / oil areas (exception—Chinese Nationalists may 
trace supply into unoccupied Chinese-controlled resource 
areas).
c)	 Units may not enter or pass through such an unoccupied 
resource or oil area during a Strategic Movement Phase.
5.0 GROUND & LBA MOVEMENT
5.1 Operational Movement Phases
5.11 Friendly ground units may move to any one adjacent area. They 
may not move more than one area during an Operational Movement 
Phase. Garrison units may not move.
5.12 LBA units may move up to two land areas, but must stop when 
an enemy occupied area is entered [but see 5.15 & 5.18].
5.13 LBA units may also fly across a sea-zone. To make this move 
the LBA unit must begin a friendly Operational Movement Phase in 
a supplied area or box in or bordering on the sea-zone. It may then 
move to any other area or box in or bordering on the same sea-zone. 
Moving across a sea-zone requires the LBA unit’s entire movement 
allowance and may be done regardless of enemy influence.
5.14 LEAVING A CONTESTED AREA is possible if both of the 
following conditions are met:
a) The unit started the current phase in the contested area, and the 
first area entered is a friendly-controlled, uncontested area. Units 
that leave a contested area may not enter another contested area the 
same Player-turn.
b) Friendly ground units totaling at least as many steps as the 
number of opposing ground units in the area are left behind as a 
rearguard. Other units may move into the area to allow the existing 
units to leave. Air units may ignore this particular clause but are still 
restricted by (a) above.
EXAMPLE: The Commonwealth has two units totaling five steps in 
an area the Japanese wish to leave. The Japanese may leave one or 
two units totaling two steps and leave with all remaining units. 
5.15 JUNGLE TERRAIN has the following effect: Air units must 
stop upon entering a jungle area during Operational Movement. 
There is no effect on strat-moves.
5.16 MOVEMENT ACROSS STRAITS: Units may cross straits 
without utilizing transport points, as a normal move during a friendly 
Operational Movement Phase, except that crossing the straits re-
quires the entire movement allowance for all units.
5.17 PORT BOXES: Port boxes are treated as separate areas and 
movement into and out of them is treated the same as for other 
areas. The port of the port box is not shared by any surrounding 
land area.
5.18 IMPASSABLE BOUNDARIES: Ground units may not cross 
an impassable boundary. Impassable boundaries have no effect on air 
units regarding movement, port attacks or influence projection.
5.19 Clear terrain, rough terrain, and rivers have no effect on move-
ment.
5.2 Strategic Movement Phases (Strat-Moves)
5.21 Using strat-moves, ground and air units (not fleets or garrison 
units) in friendly-controlled uncontested areas, including units that 
moved in the Operational Movement Phase and air units that fought 
in the Air and Naval Combat Phase, may move to any other friendly 
uncontested area on the map with the following restrictions.
5.22 The unit must trace its route over continuous friendly uncon-
tested land areas to its destination. Or, by using sea-transport [5.32], 
the unit may trace its route to a friendly port and then by sea to 
another friendly port and on through other friendly uncontested land 
areas. Air units may strat-move over one or more sea-zones by flying 
Front
Back

directly between friendly uncontested areas that are connected to 
each sea-zone traversed and then they may continue moving inland 
if desired; they do not use sea-transport if flown directly in this 
manner. CBA units in the Orphan CBA Holding Box (but no other 
CBA units) may strat-move to a CV fleet with room on their decks 
(but not into or through limited influence sea-zones [8.13]) and are 
placed in the appropriate Fleet Holding Boxes. Units may also strat-
move across straits without using sea-transport. Remember that areas 
that have uncontested invasions against them are not converted to 
friendly-control until the Combat Phase [3.25].
5.23 At no time during a strat-move may a unit enter, pass through, 
or leave an enemy-controlled or a contested area. Units using sea-
transport and air units flying across sea-zones [5.13] during a strat-
move may not enter, pass through, or leave a sea-zone where the 
enemy player has limited or dominant influence [8.13]. They may 
enter an area that borders such a zone, but must end their strat-move 
in that area if they entered by sea-transport [5.32] or by flying across 
a sea-zone [5.22]. Units strat-moving via connected land areas are 
not affected by sea-zone influence.
5.24 The strat-move limits for each Nation are listed below. The 
limit for Japan can be further reduced by strategic warfare [2.13]. 
The limits shown below are the maximum number of units that can 
be moved per friendly Strat-move Phase: 
	 Japan - 4
	 USA - 4
	 The Commonwealth - 1
5.3 Sea-Transport
Ground and LBA units may be transported via sea-transport during 
the Naval Movement Phase and/or the Strategic Movement Phase 
as follows:
5.31 NAVAL MOVEMENT PHASE: A unit using sea-transport 
during a Naval Movement Phase must start that Phase in a friendly-
controlled port or coastal area. It may use troop transports [8.12] 
to move to a sea-zone within two sea-zones of the departure area 
(including the zone adjoining that area) and may move no farther 
that phase—5.14(b) must be complied with if leaving a contested 
area. Each Japanese unit so moved reduces the Japanese available 
transport points by one for this turn. Such moves may be into, but 
not through, sea-zones where the enemy exerts limited or dominant 
influence [8.13]. Units still at sea in the Operational Movement Phase 
may land in an uncontested friendly-controlled area, or a contested 
area controlled by either side (but not across an impassable coast-
line). In either case the area landed in must be within or adjoining 
the sea-zone they occupy and does not require a port. Alternately, 
they may conduct an amphibious invasion [7.2].
5.32 STRATEGIC MOVEMENT PHASE: A unit using sea-trans-
port during a Strat-move Phase may move to a friendly uncontested 
port, embark, move to any other friendly uncontested port through up 
to six supplied and consecutive sea-zones, disembark in any friendly 
uncontested port that borders the final sea-zone moved through, and 
continue moving (but see 5.23). The enemy player must not exert 
limited or dominant influence through any sea-zones strat-moved 
through [8.13]. Each Japanese ground unit so moved reduces the 
Japanese available transport points by one for this turn. Air units 
may strat-move without using sea-transport, with an unlimited 
range, but may not enter a sea-zone with limited influence [8.13] 
and must stop when entering a port or island box area bordering 
such a sea-zone.
5.4 Stacking Limits
5.41 There is no limit to the number of units that may occupy any 
land area with the exception of island boxes, port boxes, jungle 
areas, and fleets in ports. For areas where stacking matters, CBA 
units stationed on CV fleets never count against an area’s air unit 
stacking limits.
5.42 ISLAND BOXES: Each island box may hold one ground unit, 
one LBA unit, and/or one garrison unit at the end of each player-
turn (plus a number of fleets if a port is present [3.24]). Units may 
overstack during a phase, but if stacking is exceeded at the end of 
any phase, excess units (owning player’s choice) must be eliminated 
(except for invading marines [7.2]). When attacking an enemy-
controlled island box, the attacker may place one ground unit (two 
if at least one is a marine), one LBA unit, plus any number of CBA 
units in the island box. Excess units are rebased during the Rebasing 
Phase or when the attack is called off. CBA units return to their CV 
fleet(s) after the battle is resolved.
5.43 PORT BOXES: Each port box may hold up to two ground 
units and two LBA units of each side (plus one garrison unit and the 
number of fleets allowed by the port size [3.24]). Units may overstack 
during a phase, but if stacking is exceeded at the end of any phase, 
excess units (owning player’s choice) must be eliminated (except 
for invading marines [7.2]). When attacking an enemy-controlled 
port box, the attacker may place up to two ground units (three if the 
attack is an Amphibious Invasion and at least one unit is a marine), 
two LBA units, plus any number of CBA units in the port box. Ex-
cess units are deployed to an adjacent friendly area after the combat 
round(s) are resolved or rebased during the Rebasing Phase. CBA 
units return to their CV fleet(s) after the battle is resolved.
5.44 JUNGLE AREAS: No more than four ground units and four 
air units of each side may end a phase or participate in combat 
within a jungle area.
5.45 PORT STACKING: In addition to the stacking limits indi-
cated above, ports may hold a number of fleets depending on their 
size [3.24].
5.46 If an LBA unit ever finds itself alone in an area with an enemy 
ground unit, the LBA unit is immediately eliminated (this is not 
considered a combat). If a fleet ever finds itself in an enemy-con-
trolled port, it must either be voluntarily destroyed or immediately 
exit to an adjoining sea-zone that does not contain any enemy CA, 
BB, and/or CV fleets (spending oil if the exiting fleet is Japanese). 
If a legal exit cannot be made, the fleet is eliminated instead. 
Example of stacking limits: The Island (circle) can hold 1 ground 
unit and 1 LBA, the Port Box (rectangle) can hold 2 ground units 
and 2 LBAs, while the jungle area of Lae can hold up to 4 ground 
units and 4 LBAs.

6.0 GROUND COMBAT
6.1 General Rules 
The Phasing Player is always considered to be the attacker, regard-
less of the overall strategic situation. Combat is optional for areas 
that were already contested at the start of the turn (as shown by the 
units already being face-up in the area). The Initial Combat Phase 
is mandatory for areas newly-contested as a result of the Phasing 
Player’s movement. The Initial Combat Phase comprises one combat 
round except in the case of island boxes [6.75]. Special Action(s) 
may be used for Breakthrough Combat Phase(s). Combat can result 
in both sides having forces remaining in an area.
6.2 Round of Combat Procedure
One area at a time, in any order the attacker desires, a Round of 
Combat is initiated by the attacker indicating the type of combat 
desired (Normal or Assault [6.3]). Combat is then resolved for the 
declared area. All combats in the Initial Combat Phase must be 
completely resolved before any Breakthrough Combat Phase(s) 
may be purchased.
6.21 Both players declare how many of their air units will dogfight, 
and how many will provide ground-support, hiding the air units 
behind one hand and placing the counters in the appropriate boxes 
on the Air Commitment Display, and revealing these commitments 
simultaneously. A 2-step air unit may NOT be split; the entire unit 
must commit to either ground-support or dogfighting duties. CBA 
units are restricted [6.53]. A different allocation may be made each 
round (attacker declares first for solitaire play, PBM, and PBeM 
games).
6.22 Air units that dogfight with each other fire simultaneously at 
the start of each round, rolling one die per step, and eliminating an 
opposing air step of the losing player’s choice on each result of a 5-6 
(dogfighting steps eliminated first). Elite Japanese air units hit on a 
4-6, but they must suffer all losses within each group (dogfighting 
and supporting) incurred by the dogfight until they are eliminated. 
Excess losses within each group are then applied to non-elite air 
units.
EXAMPLE: Japan has two elite and two non-elite full-strength 
LBA units in a combat.  He elects to have one of each type dogfight 
and one of each type provide ground support. The Allies have four 
full-strength LBA units and elects to dogfight with all four. Of the 
eight dice rolled by the Allies, the first two hits rolled would be 
inflicted against the elite dogfighters, the next two rolled would be 
inflicted against the non-elite dogfighters, the next two would be 
inflicted against the elite ground-support, etc.
6.23 If not already displayed from a previous round, ground units of 
both sides are now revealed by tipping them face-up in a line with 
the current value of each unit nearest to the line of enemy units. Once 
units are displayed in an area, they remain face-up until the area is 
no longer contested. Additional units moved into such an area are 
revealed immediately upon entry.
6.24 Firing in combat is resolved by rolling one or two dice [6.3] for 
each step remaining on the firing unit(s). Each roll of six or higher, 
after Hit-bonuses are applied, will eliminate one step from a ground 
or garrison unit of the losing player’s choice. 
6.25 Each step-loss is recorded by rotating a participating ground 
unit of the owning players’ choice to its next lower level. All full-
strength ground units (including garrison units) must take one 
step-loss each before additional losses may be allocated to other 
ground units. These additional losses may be distributed as desired 
by the owning player.
6.3 Combat Options
The two types of Combat Rounds are:
6.31 NORMAL: The defender fires first, rolling one die per step, 
with the attacker extracting losses. The attacker’s surviving units then 
fire, rolling one die per step, with the defender extracting losses.
6.32 ASSAULT: The defender fires first, rolling two dice per step, 
with the attacker extracting losses. The attacker’s surviving units 
then fire with two dice per step, and the defender extracts losses. 
Assaults may not be made in jungle areas.
See the Combat Round examples in the Playbook [14.0].
6.4 Summary of Ground Unit Hit-Bonuses:
These Hit-bonuses give a +1 modifier to combat die rolls and are 
cumulative.
	 a)	 United States Marine Units [4.26] {B}
	 b)	Air Unit Supporting [6.5] {B}
	 c)	 Defending in Rough Terrain [6.71] {D}
	 d)	First Round vs. River/Strait Crossing [6.73] {D} *
	 e)	 First Round vs. Amphibious Invasion [7.21]) {D} *
	 f)	 First Round Amphibious Shore Bombardment [7.22] {A}
	 g)	 Defending with a field fortification [6.84] {D}
	 h)	Japanese Surprise Jungle Attack [9.11g] {A}
	 i)	 vs. Mixed Communist and Nationalist forces [9.43] {B}
	 j)	 Banzai Attack [9.14] {B}
	 k)	Japanese Units defending vs. Chinese attacks [9.15] {D}
	 {A} Hit-bonus applies when attacking
	 {D} Hit-bonus applies when defending
	 {B} Hit-bonus applies in both cases
	 * A unit may receive only one of (d) or (e), not both
6.5 Air Units
Each step of both LBA and CBA units that are assigned to ground-
support [6.21] provides a Hit-bonus to one step of the ground unit 
it is attached to each round. Each surviving air unit that did not 
dogfight [6.22] is attached to a ground unit of the owning player’s 
choice just prior to rolling the dice. A different ground unit may be 
chosen each round of combat. 
6.51 A ground unit may not have more than one Hit-bonus for each 
of its steps provided by ground-support. Each air unit supports only 
one ground unit of the same nationality, and only a number of steps 
within that unit equal to its remaining air steps.
6.52 In a given battle, each side may have no more than eight ground 
unit steps supported by air units per round. If an air unit cannot 
legally support a ground unit, it may only be used to dogfight or 
to sit idle.
6.53 For Amphibious Invasions conducted in the current player-turn, 
CBA units that are allowed to participate [7.24] may either dogfight 
or provide ground-support to involved ground units (attacking or 
defending). They may also dogfight (only) during non-amphibious 
ground combats for port boxes. CBA units may not participate in 
non-amphibious ground combats within large areas [3.21]. CV fleets 
must be in an adjoining sea-zone or at port in the affected area for 
CBA to participate.

box that contains at least one ground unit or garrison unit of the 
same nationality as the building Power. The ground unit(s) must 
have already been in the area; you cannot build a ground or gar-
rison unit in an empty area and then build a fortification there on 
the same turn.
6.81 There is no limit on the number of fortifications each Major 
Power may build within their available WERPs. The countermix is 
not a limitation (more may be created as needed).
6.82 A friendly-controlled fortified area provides its benefits to all 
friendly ground units in the area, regardless of nationality.
6.83 If a field fortification ends a player-turn without a friendly 
ground or garrison unit in its area, it is immediately removed from 
the map.
6.84 EFFECTS OF FIELD FORTIFICATIONS:
•	 An area with a field fortification gives the defensive benefits of 
rough terrain to all friendly ground units for the mandatory first 
round of combat.
•	 If, after the first round, enemy units are still in the same area 
with the field fortification, it is immediately removed from the 
map (it has been breached).
7.0 SPECIAL ACTIONS
7.1 General Rules
Special Actions may be purchased during the Production Phase, and 
may be spent on the options listed in rules 7.2 - 7.8 below. Special 
Actions may be saved until needed, but never beyond the limits of 
the Force Pool.
7.11 The maximum number of Special Actions a nation may have 
at any one time is limited as follows:
	 The Commonwealth 	
	 USA (1942) 	
	 USA (1943) 	
	 USA (1944 on) 	
	 Japan 	
7.12 Purchased Special Action markers are placed in a home country 
area. They may not be hidden from view. As each Special Action is 
expended, it is returned to the Force Pool.
7.13 To undertake any activity requiring a Special Action, each 
involved Major Power wishing to participate must expend a Spe-
cial Action. One Major Power may expend a Special Action in an 
area containing two aligned Major Powers, but only the Power that 
spent the Special Action receives the advantage associated with 
the activity.
7.2 Amphibious Invasion 
This operation costs one Special Action per land area invaded, ex-
cept that marine units invading without other ground units do not 
require a Special Action. The chosen site may not have an impass-
able symbol as its coastline facing the invading sea-zone, and the 
invasion must be launched from a sea-zone already containing at 
least one uncontested friendly-controlled area [3.2] (an area with 
an impassable boundary adjoining that sea-zone does count). For 
Japan to invade from a sea-zone, the zone must be in his Supply 
Network [3.5]. Participating infantry and marine units (militia and 
garrison units may not conduct Amphibious Invasions) must begin 
6.6 Breakthrough Combat Phases.
6.61 After all Initial Phase combats have been resolved, Break-
through Combat Phases (rounds) may be purchased by expending 
one Special Action [7.0] per round per area.
6.62 Breakthrough Combat Phases are initiated by expending the 
Special Action, declaring the area desired, and beginning the round 
of combat procedures [6.2] for the designated area (including air unit 
allocation & dogfighting). If two or more aligned Major Powers in 
an area wish to attack in a Breakthrough Combat Phase, they must 
each expend a Special Action. Only the Major Power(s) that expend 
a Special Action may attack. The attacker may not assign casual-
ties to friendly units that do not participate. Multiple Breakthrough 
Combat Phases in the same area are allowed, provided one Special 
Action is spent for each.
6.63 If units of both sides coexist in any area(s) after all desired 
combat rounds have been fought, the units of both sides remain 
face-up in the engaged area(s) until, during some future phase or 
combat round, only one side remains. When only one side’s forces 
remain in an area that was contested, the surviving units are tipped 
up and faced away from the enemy.
6.7 Terrain Effects on Combat
Clear terrain has no effect on combat. Other terrain types affect 
combat as follows:
6.71 ROUGH TERRAIN: Defending ground units receive a Hit-
bonus.
6.72 JUNGLE: Only Normal attacks may be chosen (no Assaults) 
and no Breakthrough Combat Phases are allowed in jungle areas. 
During each Japanese July/August Initial Supply Determination 
Phase all ground units of both sides in contested jungle areas take a 
step-loss due to jungle-rot and disease. Cadre-level units do not get 
destroyed and remain at cadre-level.
6.73 RIVER/STRAITS: If any attacking ground units entered a 
defended area by crossing a river and/or strait, the defending ground 
units receive a Hit-bonus, but only if the area is newly contested 
this round. This bonus is not received if an Amphibious Invasion 
is also occurring in that area (the Amphibious Hit-bonus is still 
received).
6.74 PORT BOXES: If the attacker has not cleared a port box 
of defenders by the Rebasing Phase, any attacking marine unit in 
excess of the two ground unit stacking limit must either move to 
an adjacent uncontested friendly area or rebase [8.8]. If the port 
box has been cleared of defenders, one remaining unit may take a 
step-loss to immediately create a garrison unit in the newly captured 
port box, after which any overstacked marine unit must move or 
rebase as above.
6.75 ISLAND BOXES: Attacks against island boxes are fought 
in unlimited free combat rounds during the Initial Combat Phase 
until one side is destroyed or the attacker calls off the attack. If the 
island box has been cleared of defenders, one remaining unit may 
take a step-loss to immediately create a garrison unit in the newly 
captured island box. Any overstacked marine unit must rebase dur-
ing the Rebasing Phase.
6.8 Field Fortifications
Field fortifications may be built during the friendly 
Production Phase in any supplied, friendly-controlled, 
and uncontested clear terrain area, port box, or island 

the Operational Movement Phase already in the sea-zone. Move-
ment into the sea-zone is performed by all invaders during the Naval 
Movement Phase. During the Operational Movement Phase, the 
Special Action is expended and they are then moved to the chosen 
site which must be enemy-controlled. A maximum of four ground 
units may amphibiously invade large areas, two against port boxes, 
and one against island boxes (five, three, and two respectively if at 
least one marine unit is among the attackers). 
7.21 Any defenders except militia in the area invaded receive a Hit-
bonus for the first round of the initial combat. 
7.22 For the attacker, each complete grouping of BB & CA steps 
shown below that is in the same sea-zone as the invasion provides 
a shore bombardment Hit-bonus for one ground unit step during 
the first combat round of invasions against port and island boxes 
only: 
	 2 BB steps
	 4 CA steps
	 1 BB step & 2 CA steps
Each BB and CA step may only be a part of one grouping, and 
each ground unit step can only receive one bombardment bonus. If 
more than one site is being invaded in the same sea-zone, Battle-
ship and Cruiser fleets may be split between the targets as desired 
by the invading player. Bombarding fleets must be revealed to the 
defending player. The bombardment Hit-bonus is in addition to any 
ground-support and other bonuses received. Defending port AA has 
no effect against an invasion. 
7.23 If any invaders survive the combat for an area, the area be-
comes contested and additional units may now enter the area by 
sea-transport in subsequent Operational Movement Phases. Both 
the invading and defending units are assumed to have control of 
any port for movement and supply purposes (but only the Power 
controlling the area for naval basing).
7.24 In addition to the invading units, other units could join in 
the battle by making a legal operational move (not sea-transport) 
into the area (i.e. ground and LBA units could move directly from 
adjoining areas and LBA units could fly across a sea-zone [5.13]). 
Additionally, CBA units that are on CV fleets in the same sea-zone 
as the invaders may also participate in combat within the invasion 
area on the player-turn of the invasion. Note that these are the only 
methods that allow attacking air units to participate in the Initial 
Combat Phase. LBA units remain at the invasion site unless the 
invasion is destroyed or aborted during the player-turn of the inva-
sion, in which case they return to their base of origin.
7.25 In addition to the main invasion, any undefended port boxes 
or island boxes (those without at least a garrison unit) within the 
attacking sea-zone may also be attacked (without expending extra 
Special Actions). Any number of undefended port and island boxes 
in the same sea-zone can be captured this way by reducing one step 
for each port or island box desired from the invading unit(s) prior to 
the main invasion, and placing a garrison unit for each step reduced. 
Any remaining reduced units must then participate in the main inva-
sion, along with any other chosen units in the sea-zone that are also 
invading. Reduced units do count against the invasion limits. 
7.3 Breakthrough Combat Phases
See 6.6 for details. 
7.4 Extended Naval Operations
See 8.23 for details. 
7.5 Japanese Extensive Rebasing
During the Rebasing Phase the Japanese player may spend one 
Special Action to perform extensive naval rebasing. The Japanese 
player may rebase any or all of his fleets, troop transports still at 
sea, and any marine units (either at sea or in a coastal area) to any 
ports he can trace supply to. Regular influence rules apply for this 
rebasing move, but not the movement distance rules. This rebasing 
move does not cost oil points. 
7.6 US Code Breaking
Once each year in 1942 and 1943 during the Japanese Naval Move-
ment Phase the Allied player may spend a US Special Action to break 
the Japanese codes and perform a modified naval reaction. This has 
the following effects:
a) A single sea-zone must be selected to receive the code breaking 
benefits, before the decision is made whether or not to react for 
that sea-zone.
b) The Japanese player must reveal the composition of the force in 
that sea-zone (number of CV, BB, and CA steps, and also the total 
steps of troops being transported) to the Allied player. CBA steps 
need not be revealed.
c) All US fleets that choose to react into the selected sea-zone may 
move up to three sea-zones, instead of the normal two allowed for 
reactions. Note—whether or not the US chooses to react with fleets 
into that sea-zone, the Special Action is still spent and the once-per-
year opportunity has been made.
d) On the first naval interception check in that sea-zone the Allied 
player receives a +3 on his interception die roll (greatly increasing 
the chance of surprise [8.31(d)]).
7.7 Chinese Nationalist Attack
The Allied player may spend a US Special Action to allow Chinese 
Nationalist units to move into uncontested Japanese occupied areas 
and initiate combat [9.41]. Each Special Action spent allows any 
number of new combats for that turn, but only during the Initial 
Combat Phase. Chinese Nationalist units may always move into 
and attack both Japanese occupied areas that were already contested 
by at least one Nationalist unit to begin their turn and Japanese-
controlled but undefended areas without need of a Special Action. 
Chinese Communist units are not restricted and can move and 
initiate combat without restriction. This Special Action is the only 
Special Action the Chinese can use. The Chinese may not initiate 
Breakthrough Combat Phases. 
7.8 Unrestricted Replacements
Each Special Action saved from the previous turn (only) may be 
spent during your Production Phase to allow for replacements to 
be taken in any one supplied area, even if contested and enemy-
controlled (an exception to rule 4.31). The units in the selected area 
may receive replacements as desired (even to full strength outside of 
port areas) at normal WERP costs. This Special Action may then be 
immediately repurchased if desired. No transport points are required 
for replacements purchased with this Special Action.

7.9 Special Action Uses from EE that do not apply in AE
For Europe Engulfed players, be aware that the following Special 
Action uses from EE do not apply in Asia Engulfed, due to the dif-
ferent scale and nature of the Asian Theatre:
•	 Breakthrough Movement Phases
•	 Retreat Before Combat
•	 Retreat from Contested Area Without Leaving a Rear-guard
•	 Reinforce a Battle
•	 Counterattack
•	 Limited Supply
8.0 NAVAL OPERATIONS
8.1 General Rules
The following rules apply to fleets and pertain to more than one 
phase of the game turn.
8.11 CONSOLIDATION: Consolidation is the process that allows 
fleets of the same type to merge into a smaller number of fleets. 
Consolidation is voluntary during the Naval Movement and Rebas-
ing Phases; and mandatory during the Air and Naval Combat Phase. 
When consolidation is performed in the Air and Naval Combat 
Phase, it must be done to make the minimum possible number of 
fleets within each class.
•	 Consolidation can only be done when it would reduce the 
number of fleets present (i.e. two 3-step Cruiser fleets and one 
2-step Cruiser fleet can be consolidated into two 4-step Cruiser 
fleets).
•	 Consolidating fleets must be from the same navy.
•	 Consolidation may be done prior to leaving port so that less oil 
would be expended by the Japanese.
•	 Consolidation may be done upon returning to port so that more 
naval steps may be placed in the same port.
•	 Consolidation must be done prior to making pairings in day or 
night combat rounds (but not prior to submarine combat).
•	 Consolidation may not be done at sea except as noted above.
•	 Adjustment of fleets may only be done within the above rules; 
fleets may not be split into smaller components.
•	 The Japanese elite CA fleet may not be consolidated with other 
fleets.
8.12 TROOP TRANSPORTS: Every ground unit or LBA that 
moves in the Naval Movement Phase is considered to be on a fleet 
of troop transports. Troop transports do not require oil points and 
have the following general qualities.
•	 Troop transports may embark from and disembark into a port or 
coastal area (including island boxes). They may only disembark 
into an enemy-controlled area if it is already contested or if an 
amphibious invasion is launched [7.2]. They may not embark 
or disembark across an impassable coastline.
•	 LBA units on troop transports do not exert influence.
•	 Units may not participate in Combat until they disembark.
•	 Troop transports move as fleets except that their movement 
range is only two sea-zones.
•	 Troop transports carrying marine units may move three sea-
zones if they departed from a port, otherwise two sea-zones.
•	 Troop transport steps are destroyed rather than damaged with a 
roll of ‘5’.
•	 Each troop transport step destroyed eliminates one step of the 
transported ground or LBA unit.
•	 Troop transports may not make a reaction move.
•	 Troop transports do not exert influence [8.13].
•	 Troop transports do not have any anti-aircraft fire.
•	 Troop transports that are sunk do not affect the Japanese 
player’s transport capacity.
8.13 SEA-ZONE INFLUENCE: This represents the level of influ-
ence that is projected by each player into sea-zones, and the effect 
of such influence on naval movement, sea-transport, strat-moves, 
and sea-supply. Influence is exerted either by having an LBA unit 
in an uncontested land area that is within or bordering on the sea-
zone or a combat fleet (not a submarine unit or a troop transport 
fleet) either within that sea-zone or in a port within or adjoining 
that sea-zone. Influence levels may change as fleets are moved into 
different sea-zones. Influence is in one of three levels as follows, 
from least to most effective:
a) NONINFLUENCED: Neither player is exerting influence as in 
rule 8.13 above. There is no effect on either player for naval move-
ment, sea-transport, strat-moves, or sea-supply.
b) LIMITED INFLUENCE: Both players exert influence as in rule 
8.13 above. Limited influence in a sea-zone has the following ef-
fects:
•	 Both players stop naval movement and operational sea-trans-
port when entering. 
•	 Neither player’s fleets may enter when rebasing [8.8].
•	 Strat-moves are not allowed out of, into, or through the sea-
zone for either player. 
•	 Sea-supply is allowed into and through the sea-zone for both 
players.
c) DOMINANT INFLUENCE: Only one player exerts influence as 
in rule 8.13 above. Friendly dominant influence in a sea-zone has 
the following effects:
•	 Enemy player (only) stops naval movement and operational 
sea-transport when entering.
•	 Enemy fleets may not enter when rebasing [8.8].
•	 Enemy player (only) may not strat-move out of, into, or 
through the sea-zone.
•	 Sea-supply is allowed into or through the sea-zone for friendly 
player only. 
8.2 Naval Movement Phase
Naval movement and reaction takes place during this phase as 
follows: 
8.21 FLEET ACTIVATION: The Phasing Player declares a sea-
zone that he is moving into. He then proceeds to move any desired 
fleets to that destination. Only fleets (including troop transports) 
that can reach the destination sea-zone may move. After all Phasing 
Player fleets desired have moved into this sea-zone, the Non-phasing 
Player has the option to react into this sea-zone only [8.25]. After 
reaction is resolved, play then proceeds to the next sea-zone the 
player would like to move into (if any). Regardless of any reaction 
the Phasing Player may not move additional fleets or ground units 
into previously selected sea-zones. Each Japanese fleet (block) that 
moves or reacts will expend one oil point from the Japanese Oil Re-
serve (CV, BB, CA, and some marines), or subtract from the transport 
points remaining for the current turn (non-marine troop transports 

and marine troop transports that did not use oil).
8.22 NAVAL MOVEMENT: Activated fleets move up to three 
sea-zones (two for non-marine troop transports), stopping when 
they enter a sea-zone where the enemy exerts limited or dominant 
influence [8.13]. Each fleet may only move once per Naval Move-
ment Phase unless using extended naval operations (8.23).
a) Both the act of leaving a port (or coastal area for a troop transport) 
during a Movement or Rebasing Phase, and entering a port (Rebas-
ing Phase only) count as a zone entered. 
EXAMPLE: During the Allied Naval Movement Phase US fleets 
may move from Hawaii to the Hawaiian Islands sea-zone, to 
the Johnston Islands sea-zone, to the Phoenix Islands sea-zone, 
utilizing all three allowed moves. During the Rebasing Phase, 
these fleets may continue moving southward to the U.S. Mandate 
sea-zone, to the Tonga Sea, and then the third allowed move would 
have to bring them into port, into Fiji and/or Samoa.
b) Fleets cannot move directly between the South Philippine Sea and 
the Sulu Sea unless Leyte is uncontested and friendly-controlled.
8.23 EXTENDED NAVAL OPERATIONS: The Phasing Player 
(only) may spend a Special Action to allow CV, BB, and CA fleets 
that have already used naval movement [8.22] in any one sea-zone 
where the Phasing Player exerts Dominant Influence to move up to 
an additional three sea-zones to any one destination sea-zone, again 
having to stop when they enter a sea-zone where the enemy exerts 
limited or dominant influence [8.13]. The new sea-zone that this 
force moves to may not be one where movement and reaction has 
already been resolved for the current player-turn. As this movement 
occurs prior to the Production Phase, the Special Action must have 
been saved from last turn. The enemy again gets a chance to react 
after this extended move is completed. An opposing submarine unit 
does not hinder this extended move, but may make a submarine 
attack against the whole fleet before the fleet moves out of the sea-
zone [8.5]. No fleet may perform more than one extended operation 
per turn. Other friendly fleets and troop transports that have not yet 
moved may join the extended move fleets in their destination zone if 
they are within range of this zone from their origination port/area.
8.24 MARINE UNITS: Japanese marines may move 
up to three sea-zones, like fleets (costing the Japanese 
player an oil point) or up to two zones like other ground 
units (costing the Japanese a transport point). USA ma-
rines move up to three zones. Marine units (both USA and Japanese) 
must depart from a port to move three sea-zones [8.12].
8.25 NAVAL REACTION: After the Phasing Player announces that 
he has completed all his naval movement into a specific sea-zone the 
Non-phasing Player may react into the sea-zone the enemy player 
just declared and moved into. Only fleets in port and/or submarine 
units in a holding box are eligible to react. Reacting fleets can move 
up to two sea-zones [three using 7.6], following the rules for naval 
movement [8.22], to enter the targeted sea-zone. Additionally, the re-
acting player may choose to place his submarine unit, if eligible, into 
the specified area, either with his fleets or acting alone (regardless 
of distance and enemy influence). If the reacting player does react 
with fleets, the Phasing Player may react with his submarine unit, 
if eligible, into the specified area [8.5]. Each Japanese fleet (block) 
that reacts expends one oil point from the Japanese Oil Reserve. 
LBA units do not react, but may participate in Day Interceptions 
[8.42] from adjoining uncontested areas during the second combat 
round of each Day Interception resolved.
8.3 Naval Interception
8.31 During the Air and Naval Combat Phase, naval interception is 
checked for every sea-zone where fleets from both sides reside and 
also for sea-zones subject to submarine attack. Interceptions are 
made in the order chosen by the Phasing Player and are executed 
in the following manner:
a) For the first interception attempt, each side may choose either 
Day Interception (air combat) or Night Interception (surface fleet 
combat). Beginning with the second interception attempt, either or 
both sides may also choose to Avoid Interception. Each side hides 
behind one hand the chits representing Day, Night, and Avoid with 
the chit reflecting his choice at the top of the stack, and then both 
players reveal their choice simultaneously. Avoid may not be chosen 
on the first interception attempt. A player with only surface ships 
and no LBA units present may only choose Night and a player with 
only CV fleets and/or LBA units may only choose Day for the first 
interception attempt (Avoid may also be selected as an additional 
allowable option for both cases thereafter). 
b) Neither player can choose Avoid for the first interception attempt. 
If either or both players choose Avoid in a subsequent interception 
attempt then interception for that sea-zone is over and the avoiding 
player(s) must rebase [8.8] from that sea-zone. 
c) Otherwise each player then rolls a die, with any player choosing 
Day Interception receiving a +1 to the die roll, and compares their 
results. Whoever rolls higher achieves their interception result. If the 
modified rolls are tied, the result is bad weather, with the effect being 
that another interception attempt is resolved. After bad weather both 
players are eligible to select Avoid, and the possibility for surprise 
is re-established [8.31d].
d) If a player’s modified roll is four or more higher than his oppo-
nent’s modified roll, he has achieved surprise. The effect of surprise 
is that the player winning surprise fires and inflicts losses first, instead 
of combat occurring simultaneously. Damaged ships will return fire. 
Surprise may only be obtained in the first interception check and the 
first check after any bad weather result.
8.32 If Avoid is chosen, then each player that chose Avoid must 
rebase [8.8] his fleets from the sea-zone to one or more ports after 
resolving any submarine combat [8.52], reacting player first. Oth-
erwise the winning result will be either Day or Night Interception, 
resulting in day [8.42] or night [8.41] combat, respectively.
8.33 JAPANESE NIGHT COMBAT ADVANTAGE: Any Night 
Interception attempt made by the Japanese with the elite CA fleet in 
that sea-zone receives a +1 modifier to the interception die-roll.
8.4 Naval Combat
If naval combat occurs as a result of the interception procedure 
above, it is fought in a number of combat rounds and follow-up 
interception attempts until only one side remains in the sea-zone. 
The Air and Naval Combat Phase never ends with both sides at sea 
in the same sea-zone.
8.41 NIGHT COMBAT: A successful Night 
Interception results in one round of night com-
bat. Air units do not participate in night combat. 
CV fleets and troop transports do not fire in 
night combat and are screened by friendly BB 
and CA fleets as indicated below. Consolidation 
[8.11] for both sides must be done prior to making battle pairings. 
The player with the higher interception roll chooses the one-on-one 
battle pairings, and the owning player then decides where any surplus 

fleets will fire after the one-on-one pairings are displayed. In both 
cases, the following rules are used: 
a) Battleships must fire upon Battleships and Cruisers must fire upon 
Cruisers if possible. No enemy fleet may be targeted by more than 
one firing fleet until all enemy Battleship and Cruiser fleets have 
been targeted. CV fleets and troop transports may not be targeted 
until all enemy Battleship and Cruiser fleets have been targeted 
by at least two firing fleets. Fleets fire simultaneously unless one 
player has achieved surprise [8.31d]. Each fleet rolls one die per 
step (including damaged steps, if any). Die rolls of 6+ will destroy 
one enemy step from the paired fleet. Die rolls of 5 will damage one 
enemy step from the paired fleet. All destroy results are 
applied first. A second damage result on the same fleet 
destroys the damaged step instead of damaging a second 
step. Any destroy or damage results after the one-on-one 
paired fleet is fully destroyed may be applied to a second fleet that 
has been assigned to target the firing fleet, if any, otherwise excess 
hits are lost. Modifiers, if any, are always based on the paired fleet, 
even if the remaining fleet is a different ship type.
Firing steps receive Hit-bonuses as follows:
	 +1	 Battleship firing on Cruiser
	 +2	 Battleship firing on Carrier or Troop Transport
	 –1	 Cruiser firing on Battleship
	 +1	 Cruiser firing on Carrier or Troop Transport
	 +1	 Japan’s elite Cruiser (cumulative with other modifiers)
Carriers and Troop Transports may not fire.
b) At the conclusion of the round of night combat, submarine 
units present resolve combat [8.5], and then damage resolution is 
performed [8.6]. The naval interception process is then repeated 
[8.3].
8.42 DAY COMBAT: A successful Day Inter-
ception results in two rounds of day combat and 
may be more easily resolved using the Battle 
Board. BB and CA fleets do not participate in 
day combat except to be possible targets for 
enemy air units and to provide AA fire. Consoli-
dation [8.11] for both sides must be done prior 
to each round. LBA units based in an area adjoining multiple sea-
zones may participate in Day Combat in each such zone containing 
opposing fleets as they are resolved in turn. Day combat rounds are 
conducted by using the following steps for each of two rounds:
a) Both sides reveal their fleets and CBA units and then secretly 
assign their air units to Attack, Escort, or CAP (Combat Air Patrol) 
duties. This is done by hiding the Air Assignment Displays behind 
one hand. Once assigned and revealed air units may not change 
their assignment for the current round of combat. LBA units only 
participate in the second round of combat during each successful day 
interception result, and may perform any assignment for that round 
(CAP, attack, or escort). Players must remember where each LBA 
unit came from so they can be returned to their proper areas.
b) If one side achieved surprise [8.31d], the surprised side may not 
launch CBA units until after his opponent resolves his attack (in a 
surprise round, neither side may fly CAP or escort; all planes of both 
sides automatically fly attack). The surprised player may then attack 
with any remaining CBA units on CV fleets that were not destroyed. 
Following this resolution the second combat round begins as normal 
with no remaining surprise effects. LBA does not participate in the 
surprise round. Surprise has no effect if the surprising player has 
only LBA air units.
c) Place Air units and fleets onto the battle board in their respective 
roles. Troop transports and CV fleets may not be screened in day 
combat.
d) Air-to-air combat is resolved and losses taken: Escorts and CAP 
fire at each other, firing simultaneously, rolling one die per step, 
and destroying a step on each roll of 5 or 6. Any hits exceeding 
the number of Escorts are taken from the Attack Planes (Note that 
Japanese Elite Planes must be eliminated first in this instance [9.12]). 
If CAP steps exceed escorting steps by more than 2:1, CAP units of 
the owning player’s choice that exceed the 2:1 ratio instead fire at 
air units in the Attack section with a +1 hit bonus. 
e) All fleets (except troop transports) fire anti-aircraft (AA): Roll 
one die for every two naval steps (sum the steps of all friendly AA-
firing fleets and divide by two, dropping fractions). Each 6 rolled 
results in the destruction of one step of the attacking air units. If the 
defender has no CAP remaining, then any surviving escort planes 
may be the first to take the AA hits, otherwise AA hits must be suf-
fered by the attacking air units until destroyed, with remaining AA 
hits affecting escorts. 
f) Remaining Attack air units select targets and fire upon ships, 
rolling one die per step. No more than two attacking air units (up 
to four steps) may target a single fleet until all fleets (including 
troop transports) are targeted by two attacking units. Each 6 rolled 
destroys one step and each 5 rolled damages a step from the targeted 
fleet (two damage hits on one fleet will destroy a targeted step). 
All destroy results are applied first. Any destroy or damage results 
after the targeted fleet is fully destroyed are lost. CBA units (only) 
receive a + 1 hit bonus if they fire on CV, CA, or troop transport 
fleets. In addition, elite air units receive a +1 Hit-bonus against any 
and all targets.
g) All air units return home. CBA units in excess of the allowed 
carrying capacity of remaining CV fleets are destroyed. A damaged 
CV step can only base and launch a CBA cadre (flip a full-strength 
CBA if necessary). Damage resolution [8.6] is not performed until 
the end of the second round. Mark damaged fleets with a damage 
marker to remind the players that the fleet already contains a dam-
aged step. Damaged naval steps still count towards anti-aircraft dice 
received. After the second round, LBA units return to the uncontested 
friendly-controlled land areas in or bordering on the sea-zone that 
they came from. 
h) Repeat steps a-g for the second round. After the second round of 
day combat, submarine units present resolve combat [8.5], damage 
resolution is performed [8.6], and the naval interception process is 
repeated [8.3].
8.5 Submarine Units and Combat
After each interception is fully resolved (one 
round of night combat, two rounds of day com-
bat, or zero rounds for an avoid), the submarine 
units of each side that are in that sea-zone may 
opt to either engage the enemy’s damaged 
fleets, engage the enemy’s undamaged fleets, 
or do nothing in that sea-zone, hoping for better opportunities in 
future rounds. Damage resolution [8.6] is not performed until the 
submarine units present make and resolve this choice. Submarine 
units that choose to attack are fired upon and return fire only once 
after each interception is resolved. Submarine options are resolved 
as follows:

8.51 ENGAGING DAMAGED ENEMY STEPS: Enemy fleets 
that contain a damaged step are set aside.
•	 Each CV and CA step (both damaged and whole) within the 
fleet(s) containing a damaged step rolls one die vs. the attack-
ing submarine unit. Each result of a ‘6’ destroys one step of the 
attacking submarine unit. If there are no damaged CV or CA 
fleets present, one die is rolled as a minimum anti-submarine 
defense.
•	 If the submarine unit survived this fire it picks one enemy dam-
aged fleet and rolls one die per surviving submarine step, with a 
5 or a 6 destroying the damaged step. If two hits are scored the 
excess is ignored.
8.52 ENGAGING UNDAMAGED ENEMY FLEETS: The sub-
marine unit may instead opt to take on the enemy’s undamaged fleets 
after each interception is fully resolved, or if there was no combat 
round preceding submarine combat (possible if one or both sides 
chose Avoid or there were no fleets friendly to the submarine unit 
that reacted in that sea-zone).
•	 If this option is taken, perform combat as in 8.51 above except 
that all undamaged enemy CV and CA fleets get one die per 
step before the surviving submarines can fire at any target of 
their choice. If there are no CV or CA fleets present, one die is 
rolled as a minimum anti-submarine defense.
•	 In this case the fleet chosen as the target by the submarine can 
take multiple hits, with a 5 causing a damage result, and a 6 (or 
two 5’s) destroying one enemy step. Note that two 5’s would 
destroy two steps of a troop transport [8.12].
8.53 END OF COMBAT: As soon as the submarine unit resolves 
its last attack (brought about by one or both sides choosing the avoid 
option or there being no friendly fleets in that sea-zone), any surviv-
ing submarine steps are removed from the sea-zone and placed back 
in the submarine unit holding box for the next Player-turn. A 1-step 
submarine that is returning to the submarine holding box merges 
with the submarine replacement counter (4.61), if produced, and 
becomes a 2-step unit. If the submarine unit was destroyed, the pro-
duced submarine replacement counter becomes a 1-step submarine 
unit in the holding box.
8.6 Damage Resolution
Damaged steps remain fully functional until this time, 
except that a damaged CV step can only hold/launch a 
single step of CBA. Each Naval Production Track has 
a printed Damage Result Table (the numbers printed 
along the bottom of each track). For each damaged step that survives 
submarine combat [8.5] roll a die, then move the damage marker 
from the affected fleet to the corresponding box on the proper Na-
val Production Track, and then remove the damaged step from the 
affected fleet by rotating it, subtracting a step. Each CBA unit that 
was carried by a damaged CV step is placed in the Orphan CBA 
holding box. Each damage marker may be advanced up its track by 
expending one WERP per turn and it arrives when fully built like a 
newly built naval step [4.74]. There is no damage resolution for the 
DEI CA fleet or for troop transports, as a damage result is converted 
to a destroyed result against these ship types.
8.7 Port/Airbase Attacks
The Phasing Player (only) may use CBA and LBA units 
to conduct Port/Airbase attacks. If no enemy fleets 
remain in a sea zone after all naval interceptions (if 
any) have been resolved, then LBA in uncontested land 
areas adjoining that sea-zone and CBA units in the sea zone may 
conduct one round of port/airbase attacks on an enemy area within 
or bordering the sea zone that either contains a port (port attack) or 
is uncontested and contains an enemy LBA (airbase attack). Each 
air unit is limited to one such attack per turn (even if an LBA’s area 
borders more than one sea-zone). The phasing player may divide 
his eligible air units to attack multiple areas. Each attacked area is 
resolved with a round of combat as follows:
•	 The Air units attacking each area are assigned either escort and 
or port attack (if the area has a port bordering the sea zone) 
duties as the Phasing Player desires. All defending air units 
(including CBA on fleets in port) are automatically assigned 
to CAP duties. If the defender has fleets present, he need not 
reveal if there are CBA units present until after the attacker 
has split his forces between escort and attack assignments. 
Individual air units may not split their steps between different 
missions.
•	 Air-to-air combat is resolved as in rule 8.42d.
•	 If at least one attacking unit was assigned to port attack duties 
then the fleets in the port are revealed and AA fire is resolved as 
in 8.42e, with the AA dice of the port [3.24] being added to the 
AA dice of any fleets that are present in the attacked port.
•	 Surviving air units with port attack duties target either an 
enemy fleet in the port (as in 8.42f, but with a +1 port attack 
Hit-bonus) or the port facilities (no port attack hit bonus, but 
any number of air units may target the port facilities).
•	 When targeting the port facilities, each 6 rolled damages the 
port. No port can have more than three points of damage 
inflicted against it; any additional damage is ignored.
•	 Surviving attackers return to the area or fleet of origin.
8.71 DAMAGED PORTS: Damaged ports do not function as ports 
for strat-moves, fleet movement into them, and WERP/oil point 
shipments out of them, but still function for supply purposes. Ports 
can be repaired one point per turn at a cost of one WERP, provided 
the damaged port is both friendly-controlled and supplied (excep-
tion—8.72 below).
8.72 REPAIRING HOME PORTS: Home ports may have any 
number of damage points repaired in a single turn, though the cost 
remains one WERP per point of damage. 
8.73 ALLIED REPAIR RESPONSIBILITIES: Either Allied 
player may pay for port repairs in non-home areas. Only the home 
power may pay port repair costs in home areas.
8.8 Naval Rebasing
Naval rebasing takes place at the end of naval combat (for the side(s) 
choosing Avoid) and also during the Rebasing Phase (for all fleets 
and troop transports remaining at sea, any marine units that are 
overstacked after an Amphibious Invasion, and unmoved Phasing 
Player fleets in port that wish to change ports). All fleets in a sea-
zone must return to port, none may remain at sea at the end of a 
turn. Any reacting fleets return to port first followed by the Phasing 
Player’s fleets. Fleets must make a legal naval move [8.22] to return 
to a port. Alternately they may return to their home port, which al-
lows fleets to ignore both distance and influence. The sea-zone they 
begin the Phase in does not count for movement nor does enemy 
influence within that zone preclude movement. Troop transports 
and fleets may then move up to two (for troop transports, including 
marines) or three (for fleets) sea-zones [per 8.22], but may not enter 
any sea-zone where the enemy exerts limited or dominant influence. 
Consolidation [8.11] is permitted in the destination port.

9.0 NATION SPECIFIC RULES
9.1 Japan
9.11 SURPRISE ATTACK RULES (used only for the Nov/Dec 
1941 Campaign Game): Japan attacked the Allies without a normal 
declaration of war and caught them by surprise. During the Japanese 
Player-turn of the Nov/Dec 1941 turn (only) they receive the fol-
lowing surprise benefits: 
a) The US fleets in Hawaii and in the USA may not make reaction 
moves against Japanese fleets. 
b) US fleets already at sea in the Hawaiian Islands sea-zone may 
not make interception checks until after the surprise port attack on 
Hawaii, following the procedure in rule 9.11k. 
c) All Japanese air units receive a +1 hit-bonus for the first round of 
the Air & Naval Combat Phase within each sea-zone. Elite air units 
also receive their +1 hit-bonus. If the first attacks in a sea-zone are 
port attacks, then the port attacks receive this surprise hit-bonus. 
d) Allied LBA units and fleets in port do not project influence until 
after the Air & Naval Combat Phase.
e) Any Commonwealth fleets based in Singapore must automatically 
make a reaction move against Japanese fleets ending movement in 
the Gulf of Thailand or the Java Sea (whichever one is first eligible 
for a reaction move [8.25]).
f) For all port attacks, Allied AA dice are halved for both the port 
and ships in port (fractions rounded up), first round only in the case 
of Hawaii.
g) Japanese infantry receive a +1 hit bonus when fighting in jungle 
areas.
h) There is no strategic warfare segment during the Japanese player’s 
Production Phase of this turn.
i) The Japanese submarine unit may only be placed where Allied 
fleets react (not in the Hawaiian Islands).
j) The Japanese player may have a surprise port attack using any 
fleets in the Hawaiian Islands sea-zone. This is resolved like a normal 
port attack [8.7] except that it happens before the first interception 
attempt in that sea-zone, the Japanese receive the Hit-bonus of case 
c above, and the defending LBA unit may not fly CAP. The LBA 
unit may be fired upon (as air-to-air) without returning fire (bonuses 
for surprise and elite apply).
k) The Japanese player may elect to rebase [8.8] immediately fol-
lowing the surprise port attack on Hawaii, or they may stay and 
possibly fight the American fleets in the Hawaiian Islands sea-zone 
hoping to clear the zone so they can then launch a second port at-
tack round on Hawaii (this is the only case where a second port 
attack is allowed). 
•	 If the Japanese elect to stay, the US fleets at sea may then elect 
to immediately rebase to the USA home port (not Hawaii) or at-
tempt interception of the Japanese fleet for an abridged single-
round of day combat. 
•	 If the Americans elect to stay they get a +3 on the intercep-
tion die roll (both sides must select day) for the single allowed 
round. The Japanese lose the extra ‘surprise’ +1 Hit-bonus of 
9.11(c) above (having used it on the surprise port attack). 
•	 After this mandatory combat round, further interception at-
tempts may be made, and either side may choose Avoid.
•	 If the American fleet departs, either without combat or after 
combat, and the Japanese fleet remains, a one round normal 
port attack is then allowed on Hawaii with any surviving CBA 
units.
9.12 ELITE UNITS: Some of the Japanese pilots at the beginning 
of the war, as well as the Japanese Heavy Cruisers, were highly 
trained, had the best equipment, and had combat experience. The 
Japanese player begins the Campaign Game with four elite CBA 
units, four elite LBA units, and one elite Cruiser fleet. 
•	 These units may never receive replacements. 
•	 If an elite CA step is damaged, the damaged step becomes a 
non-elite CA step as soon as the damage marker is placed on 
the CA production track. The elite CA fleet may never receive 
repaired steps.
•	 The elite CA fleet receives a +1 Hit-bonus when firing in night 
combat, and adds a +1 to the Japanese interception roll when 
present and the Japanese choose a night interception attempt.
•	 Two damaged elite air units in the same location and of the 
same type (LBA or CBA) may combine into one full strength 
elite unit, if desired. An elite unit may combine with a non-elite 
unit, if the Japanese player desires, but the step is added to the 
non-elite unit, and the elite unit is removed from play. 
•	 All air-to-air combat hits (not anti-aircraft fire) from the Allied 
player must be applied to elite air units first, when such losses 
are applied within each mission type. 
•	 Elite air units receive a +1 Hit-bonus when conducting air-to-
air combat and when attacking fleets and port facilities, but not 
for ground-support. 
•	 Each elite air unit that is eliminated results in a non-elite air 
unit of the same type being added to the Japanese Force Pool.
9.13 KAMIKAZES: Place the kamikaze marker on the 
General Information Track as indicated by the scenario 
played. This marker is moved down one space each turn 
for each of the following conditions that apply:
•	 The Japanese player spends more than one WERP on air units 
(Build Track and replacement steps combined).
•	 Each Japanese Production Phase where they begin with less 
than 20 oil points and they receive fewer than three additional 
oil points that phase (after strategic warfare is resolved)
When the kamikaze marker reaches zero the Japanese must invoke 
kamikaze tactics (may no longer fly dogfight, CAP, escort, or ground-
support missions) with their remaining LBA units due to lack of pilot 
skill and shortage of fuel (except any remaining elite LBA units, 
which along with CBA units may not use kamikaze tactics). Once 
the Japanese LBA units have gone kamikaze, the Japanese player 
may move one LBA build marker up one position on the build track 
before production each Production Phase as all aircraft resources are 
devoted to the kamikaze effort, in addition to any WERPs spent for 
air units on the build track (note that this could allow for one LBA 
marker to move up two slots on the build track against the normal 
production rules). Kamikaze units must attack enemy shipping at 
every opportunity and are resolved as follows:
a) During each Air & Naval Combat Phase, the first action (before 
interception checks) in each sea-zone is a kamikaze attack by all 

Japanese LBA units that project influence into that sea-zone. Kami-
kaze attacks are never forced to exceed one step of attacking air for 
each step of targets. If there are more LBA steps than targets, the 
remaining LBA units may either kamikaze attack or remain unused 
awaiting better targets at the Japanese player’s option. Kamikaze 
attacks do not undergo air-to-air combat or anti-aircraft fire (these 
elements are already factored in). Sea-zones are resolved in the order 
chosen by the Phasing Player.
b) Each full strength Kamikaze unit (2 steps) receives one die roll 
needing a 6 to destroy a step or 5 to damage a step of the targeted 
enemy fleet or troop transport. The first Kamikaze unit must target 
a cruiser fleet (if present) while any others in the battle can target 
whomever they desire. Kamikaze units may not double-up on any 
targeted fleet unless each fleet is being attacked by one Kamikaze. 
Once Kamikaze units have fired they are destroyed.
c) Half-strength (1 step) Kamikaze units may only damage the tar-
geted fleet and need a 6 to succeed. Note that a damage result will 
still destroy a targeted troop transport step or a DEI cruiser step.
9.14 BANZAI ATTACKS: Before the Japanese player rolls for 
any of his garrison and/or militia units that are in combat (attack or 
defense), the Japanese player may declare that some or all of these 
units are launching a banzai attack. The effect of the banzai attack 
is that the Japanese player is awarded an additional +1 Hit-bonus to 
the units conducting the banzai attack (even militia units and units 
in partial supply receive this special +1 Hit-bonus), but after he rolls 
the dice and resolves any hits inflicted on the Allies, all units that 
conducted the banzai attack are eliminated, unless the Allies are 
completely eliminated, in which case one step (only) of the banzai 
attackers survives.
9.15 TENACIOUS DEFENSE OF CHINA: Japanese ground 
units (except militia) receive a Hit-bonus when defending against 
Chinese attacks.
9.16 HOME DEFENSE FORCE: There are three markers included 
for the General Information Track to reflect the current strength of 
the Japanese home defense militia. They begin each scenario at 12 
(Honshu) and 4 (Shikoku and Kyushu). Each represents a single 
unit of militia that would be full-strength at 20 steps. As such, they 
represent the number of militia steps inherent with the defense of 
each home island. For each round of combat, these are treated as 
regular militia steps except that one quarter of the remaining defense 
force steps (rounded up—no more and no less) on each contested 
island must conduct a banzai attack [9.14] for each round of combat 
(attack or defense) that is fought in the area. The Japanese player 
may produce additional home defense steps for friendly-controlled 
home islands, at a cost of one WERP per step, even if the island is 
contested.
9.2 USA
9.21 USA NAVAL REINFORCEMENTS: Beginning with the 
Jan/Feb 1944 turn the USA receives 1 CV, 1 BB, and 1 CA step 
free of WERP cost every turn for the remainder of the game. This 
represents the ramp-up of US naval production that kicked into high 
gear by the beginning of 1944.
9.22 USA PRODUCTION INCREASES: 
•	 The USA has five WERPs for the Dec 1941 turn. 
•	 Beginning with the Jan/Feb 1942 turn their production increases 
to 20. 
•	 If on any turn in 1942, the US reacts to a Japanese naval move 
(and therefore has an interception attempt) or makes a naval 
move that the Japanese could legally react to with surface fleets 
(whether they do or not) then the US is eligible for their WERPs 
to increase by 5 (to 25) with the Jan/Feb 1943 turn. To be eligible, 
the USA fleet risked must be at least eight steps in total strength 
and contain at least one CV step, and each CV step risked must 
have a CBA unit on board. If the eligibility is fulfilled without na-
val combat occurring, the US player must reveal sufficient fleets 
from his force to prove the eligibility requirement was met. If 
they are not eligible they remain at 20 WERPs until such time as 
they fulfill the above condition. When this first increase occurs, 
the 1943 USA Force Pool additions are also received (see sce-
nario cards).
•	 The process is repeated in 1943 when their production will in-
crease to 30 in Jan/Feb 1944 or when they fulfill the above con-
dition for the second time (on any turn in 1943 or later that is 
after the turn that the first condition was fulfilled). When this 
second increase occurs, the 1944 USA Force Pool additions are 
also received (see scenario cards). 
•	 The 1945 force pool additions are received at the start of the 
Jan/Feb 1945 game turn.
9.23 USA OPERATING LIMITS: USA units may not operate in 
India, Burma, or China (except Formosa). 
Note: Merrill’s Marauders, which operated in Burma, was too 
small a unit to be represented in Asia Engulfed.
9.24 NAVAL BUILD CHITS: There are seven US Naval Build 
Chits labeled with a date of entry. These build chits are added to 
the US Force Pool and may be used beginning with the turn shown 
on the marker.
9.25 LEND-LEASE: The US may transfer up to five WERPs (total) 
per turn in some combination spread between The Commonwealth 
and Nationalist China. Nationalist China can only receive a maxi-
mum of two WERPs per turn for each of the Burma Road areas 
(Assam and Burma) that the Allies control. WERPs transferred to 
the Nationalist Chinese must be able to trace to a friendly-controlled 
and Nationalist occupied Chinese resource area. WERPs transferred 
to the Commonwealth must be able to trace to a friendly-controlled 
resource area in India or Australia, and if any ground units are pro-
duced by these WERPs they must belong to the nation traced into. 
A trace to India may go around Australia, exiting the south edge of 
the map east of Australia and re-entering the map in any sea-zone 
west of the continent. This trace around Australia may also be used 
for US supply [3.4], but not to strat-move units. Each WERP the 
US transfers to either power deducts two WERPs from the USA 
for the current turn.
9.3 The Commonwealth
9.31 THE WAR IN EUROPE: The Commonwealth must subtract 
three WERPs per turn, representing aid sent to Europe in the war 
against Nazi Germany. These WERPs are kept in the Asian theatre for 
each Allied Production Phase that the Japanese Player has a ground 
unit within any area of India (not Ceylon) or Australia.

9.32 OPERATING LIMITS: Commonwealth units may not oper-
ate in China except for the two islands (Hainan and Formosa) and 
the two port boxes (Hong Kong and Shanghai). They may not enter 
these areas if there are currently Chinese units in them.
9.4 China
9.41 CHIANG KAI-SHEK HEEL DRAGGING: Chinese Nation-
alist units may not move into a Japanese occupied area unless the 
area already contains at least one Nationalist unit or the US spends a 
Special Action. If spent, the US Special Action allows them to create 
one or more newly contested areas that turn. They may move into 
already existing battles and unoccupied Japanese-controlled areas 
without need of a Special Action.
9.42 COMMUNIST UPRISING: The Chinese Communists receive 
one free step each Allied Production Phase. This represents the 
continual popular support they received from the local populations. 
New Communist units may appear in any friendly-controlled (it 
may be contested) area within China containing or adjacent to an 
area already containing one or more Communist units. The Chinese 
Communists may not use WERPs, even if they control and occupy 
a Chinese resource area. The one free step per turn, along with any 
free militia steps received through rule 9.45, are the only increases 
the Chinese Communists are allowed.
9.43 NATIONALIST-COMMUNIST CHINESE CONFLICT: 
In any engaged area where both Communist and Nationalist units 
are defending, the Japanese player receives a Hit-bonus during all 
rounds of combat until a round begins with only one force remains 
(Communists or Nationalists). In such areas where the Chinese 
are attacking, the Japanese player still receives this Hit-bonus, 
and additionally only one force (Nationalist or Communist; Allied 
player’s choice) may launch the attack and that force suffers any 
and all losses.
9.44 OPERATING LIMITS: Chinese units may only operate in 
China (including Shanghai, Hainan, and Hong Kong; China will 
receive the WERP for Shanghai while Nationalist garrisoned, but not 
Hong Kong, which the Commonwealth will receive the WERP for, 
provided it is Allied-controlled and unoccupied or occupied by a Brit-
ish ground or garrison unit), Manchukuo, and Korea. Additionally, 
Chinese Communist units may only operate in rough terrain areas 
and areas adjacent to rough terrain within the above limits. Chinese 
units may not enter areas containing Commonwealth units.
Note: The Chinese Expeditionary Forces that operated in Burma 
were too small a unit to be represented in Asia Engulfed.
9.45 CHINESE EMERGENCY MILITIA: Each time a territory 
in China that was controlled by the Chinese becomes controlled by 
the Japanese during a Combat Phase, the Chinese instantly receive 
up to five free steps of militia in any combination of new units and/or 
replacements (cannot exceed the Force Pool). These free steps shall 
be Communist when the area taken was rough terrain, and Nationalist 
for other areas. The free steps arrive with the same constraints as 
newly produced units for each force.
9.46 CHINESE MILITIA IN COMBAT: Chinese Militia may only 
fire (roll dice) when defending. If they participate in an attack, they 
may not fire (roll dice), but they may take casualties following the 
normal rules (full-strength units first, etc.).
9.47 CHINESE LBA UNIT: The Chinese LBA 
unit may only be used to support Nationalist ground 
units or to dogfight.
9.5 Minor Powers (DEI & the Philippines)
9.51 The DEI never produces. Their CA fleet is considered an Allied 
fleet except as noted below. Their ground units may not move from 
their initial placement areas.
9.52 DEI fleet steps cannot be repaired. Destroy any damaged step 
on the DEI fleet during damage resolution [8.6] instead of rolling 
on the cruiser damage table. Note that two damage results during 
combat will only destroy one step as with any other CA fleet. Dam-
age results are not converted to destroy results until the Damage 
Resolution is resolved.
9.53 The DEI fleet may use any friendly-controlled port within the 
DEI, India or Australia as a home port.
9.54 The DEI is conquered and their ground units are permanently 
removed from the game when all of their resource areas are Japa-
nese-controlled at the end of any phase.
9.55 The Philippines may only produce to rebuild or add a replace-
ment to their militia unit, and only if Luzon is friendly-controlled. 
Their militia unit is considered an American unit for all purposes 
except that it cannot leave the Philippines and it cannot be replaced 
or rebuilt with American WERPs.
9.56 The Philippines are conquered and their unit is permanently 
removed from the game when all four Philippine areas are Japanese-
controlled at the end of any phase.
10.0 CONQUEST & VICTORY
10.1 National Conquest
Each Major and Minor Power is considered conquered when the 
conditions below are met. When a specified country is conquered 
all its forces are removed permanently from the game.
10.11 Japan is conquered the instant Honshu is enemy-controlled. 
Upon conquest of Japan the game ends [10.3].
10.12 India is conquered if at the end of the Allied Player-turn all 
three Indian resource areas are under Japanese control. Indian units 
are removed from the game, and India never again acts as a supply 
source for Commonwealth units.
10.13 Australia is conquered if at the end of the Allied Player-turn 
both Australian resource areas are under Japanese control. Australian 
units are removed from the game. If one or more Australian resource 
areas are later liberated Australia will again act as a supply source 
for Allied units.
10.14 Each Chinese force is conquered as follows:
a) Nationalist China is conquered if at the end of the Allied Player-
turn the Chinese do not control at least one Chinese resource area 
(Communist forces may continue fighting if they have not been 
separately conquered).
b) Communist Chinese forces are conquered when there are no 
Communist Chinese units currently on the game map (National-
ist China may continue fighting if they have not been separately 
conquered).
10.15 The DEI is conquered the instant they no longer control any 
resource or oil areas. The DEI fleet is not removed when they are 
conquered; it may only use Indian and Australian home ports from 
that moment, but it cannot receive additional steps.

10.16 Great Britain cannot be conquered.
10.17 The USA cannot be conquered.
10.18 END OF GAME: The game ends at the conclusion of the 
July/August 1945 turn, unless it ended earlier with the conquest of 
Japan or Japan fulfilling its Decisive Victory conditions [10.3]. 
10.2 Conquered Territory Control
After a Major or Minor Power has been conquered, and its forces 
removed, control of its territory is determined as follows:
10.21 All areas solely occupied by invading forces, or that contain no 
forces at all, are considered controlled by the conquering Power.
10.22 Areas containing forces opposed to the invader after the 
conquered units have been removed remain friendly to the side that 
controlled them at the instant prior to conquest.
10.3 Victory Conditions
Victory levels are determined as follows:
The Japanese win a Decisive Victory if any of the following condi-
tions exist at the end of an Allied Player-turn:
a) The Japanese control Hawaii.
b) The Japanese control 12 or more supplied Victory Point (VP) 
areas/sea-zones.
c) Japan is unconquered at the end of the Jul/Aug 1945 turn, controls 
at least six supplied VP areas, and the Allies have NO strategic air 
base land areas under Allied-control.
The Japanese may win Operational and Marginal Victories by 
controlling enough supplied Victory Point Areas as listed below 
and remaining unconquered at the end of the Jul/Aug 1945 game 
turn. VP’s for sea-zones are awarded if the Japanese exert limited 
or dominant influence [8.13] in them (a Supply Network Marker is 
not necessary).
	 6+ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Operational Victory
	 3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marginal Victory
The Allied Victory levels are as follows:
	 Marginal Victory . . . . . . . Japan controls 2 supplied VP areas
	 Operational Victory . . . . . Japan controls 0-1 supplied VP areas
	 Decisive Victory . . . . . . . Japan is conquered before game end
CREDITS
GAME DESIGNERS: Jesse Evans and Rick Young
GAME DEVELOPER: John Foley
RULES EDITING: Kristian Madsen, Joe Keller, and John 
Ellsworth
ART DIRECTOR: Rodger B. MacGowan
PACKAGE DESIGN: Rodger B. MacGowan
COUNTERS & MAP: Mark Simonitch
RULES LAYOUT: Mark Simonitch
PLAYTESTERS: Mark Beninger, Eric Burgess, Joe Chacon, Ron 
Draker, Jesse Evans, John A. Foley, Kevin Garber, Jim Ham-
bacher, Björn Hansson, Andrew Harding, Hal Hood, Joe Keller, 
Dave Knoyle, Mark A. Kramer, Greg Lipin, Kristian G. Madsen, 
Tim Paterson, Mark Simonitch, Joel Toppen, Mike Wene, Joe 
White, and Rick Young.
PRODUCTION COORDINATION: Tony Curtis
PRODUCERS: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, 
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
10.4 Bidding For Sides
Bidding for sides is done by bidding how many WERPs of free 
pre-game production you are willing to allow the Japanese and how 
many starting oil points you are willing to add to the Japanese player 
for you to be the Allies. Alternately, how many WERPs of free pre-
game production you are willing to allow the Allies and starting oil 
points you are willing to sacrifice to be the Japanese. 
EXAMPLE: If you win a bid to be the Americans with a bid of three, 
the Japanese Player may take a free Production Phase before the 
game begins using these three WERPs (only), within normal con-
straints (except transport point usage, which does not subtract from 
available transports for the first turn), and the Japanese player also 
adds three oil points to his beginning tally to start the scenario.

Air Units: 4.21, 4.44, 4.75, 5.12, 5.13, 5.14(b), 5.22, 5.3, 5.41 - 5.43, 
5.46, 6.21, 6.22, 6.4, 6.5 - 6.53, 7.24, 8.13(a) - (c), 8.42(a) - (g), 
9.11(c)+(d), 9.13 - 9.13(c)
America: see USA
Amphibious Invasions: 1.15, 6.4, 7.2 - 7.25, 8.13(a)
Areas: KT&C, 3.1, 3.2
ASW: see Strategic Assets
Battleships: 7.22, 8.41, 8.41(a), 8.42
Bomber Points: see Strategic Assets
Breakthrough Combat Phase: 1.17(b), 6.6 - 6.63
Cadre: KT&C, 4.44
Carriers: 5.41, 8.41, 8.41(a), 8.42(c)
Chinese:
	 Communists: 3.32, 4.11, 9.42, 9.43, 9.44, 10.14(b)
	 LBA: 9.47
	 Militia: 9.45, 9.46
	 Nationalists: 3.31, 4.11, 4.14, 7.7, 9.41, 9.43, 9.44, 10.14(a)
Combat:
	 Air-to-Air: 6.22, 8.42(d)
	 Air & Naval: 1.14, 5.12, 8.4 - 8.42(h)
	 Ground: 1.17, 6.0 - 6.75
Combined Game: 16.0
The Commonwealth: 4.11, 4.14, 9.3, 10.12, 10.13, 10.16
Consolidation: 8.11, 8.41, 8.42, 8.8
Contested Area: KT&C, 3.1, 5.14, 5.23, 6.1, 7.7
Controlled Area: 3.25, 5.23
Cruisers: 7.22, 8.33, 8.41, 8.41(a), 8.42
Damage: 8.41(a), 8.42(b), 8.42(f), 8.42(g), 8.42(h), 8.6
DEI: 3.33, 4.13, 4.14, 9.5 - 9.53, 10.15
Dutch East Indies: see DEI
Elite Units: See Japan
Europe Engulfed: 16.0
Field Fortifications: 4.44, 6.4, 6.8
Final Supply Determination: 1.19, 3.7, 3.8, 6.74
Fleets: KT&C, 1.11(a), 4.24, 4.74, 5.42, 5.43, 5.45, 8.0
Force Pool: KT&C, 4.4
Garrison Unit: 3.35, 4.28, 4.43, 4.44, 4.5, 4.8, 5.42, 5.43, 6.74, 7.25
General Information Track: 2.0, 4.71
Ground Units: KT&C, 4.22, 5.11, 5.21, 5.3, 6.23
Hit-Bonuses: KT&C, 6.4, 7.21, 7.22
Holding Boxes: KT&C
Home Areas: KT&C, 4.41
Home Ports: KT&C, 4.42, 4.74, 8.7, 8.8
Influence: KT&C, 3.4(a), 5.23, 8.13, 8.22
Interception: see Naval Interception
Island Boxes: 3.23, 5.42, 6.75, 7.25
Japan:
	 Banzai Attacks: 3.35, 6.4, 9.14
	 Conquest: 10.11
	 Elite Units: 6.22, 9.12, 9.13
	 Heavy Cruisers: 8.33, 9.12
	 Home Defense Force: 9.16
	 Kamikazes: 9.13 - 9.13(c)
	 Partial Supply Sources: 3.35, 3.8
	 Occupied Resources: 4.11, 4.14, 4.8 
	 Oil Points: KT&C, 1.11(c), 2.12, 2.42, 4.11, 4.14, 4.8(a), 8.21, 
8.24, 8.25
	 Supply Network: 1.12(b), 2.12, 3.4(b), 3.5, 7.2, 8.13(a)
	 Transport Points: KT&C, 1.11(c), 1.12(b), 2.12, 3.5, 4.44, 4.5
Jungle: 1.12(a), 5.15, 5.44, 6.32, 6.4, 6.72, 9.11(g)
Kamikazes: see Japan
Land Areas: 3.21-3.23
Large Areas: 3.21
Marine Units: 4.26, 4.44, 6.4, 7.2, 8.24
Markers: 4.29
Major Powers: KT&C, 7.13
Militia Units: 4.27, 4.44, 7.21, 9.45, 9.46
Minor Powers: KT&C
Movement - Ground/Air: 5.0 - 5.32
Movement - Naval: see Naval Movement
Naval Combat: see Combat: Air & Naval
Naval Consolidation: see Consolidation 
Naval Damage: see Damage
Naval Interception: 8.3 - 8.33, 8.41, 8.42, 9.11(b)
Naval Movement: 1.11(a), 7.4, 8.2 - 8.23
Naval Reaction: 1.11(b), 7.4, 7.6, 8.2, 8.25, 9.11(a), 9.11(e), 9.22
Naval Rebasing: 1.18, 7.5, 8.8
Netherlands East Indies: see DEI
Newly Contested Area: KT&C, 6.1
Oil Points: see Japan
Operational Movement: 1.15, 5.1 - 5.19, 5.31
Out of Supply: 3.6
Partisans: 4.8
Philippines: 4.14, 4.32, 4.41, 4.43, 9.55, 9.56 
Ports: 3.24, 4.44, 5.45, 7.23, 8.24, 8.7, 9.11(j)
Port Boxes: 3.22, 3.35, 5.17, 5.43, 6.74, 7.25
Production: 1.13, 4.0 - 4.8, 7.1, 7.8, 9.21, 9.22
Production Tracks: 4.71
Replacements: 4.3, 4.5, 7.8
Rivers: 5.19, 6.4, 6.73
Rough Terrain: 5.19, 6.4, 6.71
Sea-supply: 3.4, 8.13
Sea-transport: 5.23, 5.3 - 5.32
Sequence of Play: 1.0 - 1.3
Special Actions: KT&C, 4.44, 6.61, 7.0 - 7.8, 9.41
Stacking Limits: 5.4 - 5.46
Steps: KT&C, 4.22, 4.24
Straits: KT&C, 3.1, 5.16, 6.4, 6.73
Strat-Moves: KT&C, 1.16, 2.13, 4.8(c), 5.2 - 5.24, 5.32, 8.13
Strategic Air Bases: KT&C, 2.4, 2.5
Strategic Assets: KT&C
	 ASW: 2.1, 2.11, 2.13, 2.2, 4.44
	 Bomber Points: 2.4, 2.41, 2.42, 2.5, 4.44
	 Submarine Warfare: 2.1, 2.12, 2.3, 4.44
Submarine Units: 1.11(b), 1.14, 4.25, 4.44, 8.5, 9.11(i)
Submarine Warfare: see Strategic Assets
Supply: 1.12, 1.19, 3.0 - 3.8, 4.8(b) 
Supply Network: see Japan
Supply Sources: 3.1, 3.3
Surprise: 8.31(d), 8.41(a), 8.42(b), 9.11
Torpedoes: see USA
Transport Points: see Japan
Troop Transports: KT&C, 8.12, 8.41, 8.41(a), 8.42(c)
USA: 3.34, 4.11, 4.14, 4.42, 9.2, 10.17
Torpedoes: 2.14
WERPs: KT&C, 2.12, 2.41, 2.42, 4.1 - 4.14, 4.6, 4.73, 4.77, 4.8(a), 
9.22, 9.25
INDEX (KT&C = Key Terms and Concepts - pages 2&3)