j
r~

R u L E 5
p l
From: Lord Darth Vader
To: General Veers, C-in-C Imperial Ground Assault
Group, Lord Vader's Task Force
Message: Land on Hoth. Deactivate Shield Generator
immediately. Destroy all Rebels in your way. You must
not fail me, General.
1. The Battle for Hoth
2. A Look at the Game Parts
3. Setting Up the Game
4. Turn Sequence
5. Using Action Cards
6. Moving Your Units
7. Firing at the Enemy
8. Using Event Cards
9. Luke Skywalker
10. Winning the Game
"Fleet of Star Destroyers coming out of hyperspace,
sector 4:'
"Their primary target will be the Power Generators.
Re-route all power to the energy shield. We've got to
hold them till the transports are away. Prepare for
ground assault! Better start the evacuation:'
Design and Development: Paul Murphy
Design Assistance: Douglas Kaufman
Editing: Jeffery L. Briggs
Art Direction: Stephen Crane
Graphics: Rosaria Baldari, Susan Kramer, Teri
Micco, and Carl Skutsch
Production: Steve Porpora
Testing and Advice: Peter Corless, Steve Gilbert
Bill Siavicsek, Michael Stern
West End Games
RD 3 Box 2345
Honesdale, PA 18431
"I say again. Code Red Alert! Imperial Walkers sighted
on north ridge, 2 klicks from Echo! General Rieekan!"
"I copy, Colonel. Initiate Evac Rearguard Action 101.
You have five companies defense troops, a couple of
flights of Speeders at your immediate disposal ~ follow-
ed by whatever else we can scrape together:'
"Roger that. Five companies, two flights. That's not
much to hold off an Assault Group. .:'
"That's all we have, Colonel Firest ...and 
Ledick
-it's 
all or nothing this time. If they shut down the
shields before we evacuate, well, we've all had it:'
"We won't let you down, General:'
"I know you won't. Good luck, and may The Force
be with you:'
Ltd. (LFL
ight~
th(

1. The Battle for Hoth
When one unit fires at another, the attacking player rolls
a number of fire dice equal to the firing unit's fire strength;
if he rolls a number of "relevant symbols" (see 2.3, The
Dice) equal to or greater than the target's armor strength,
he has hit (damaged or destroyed) the defending unit.
The Imperial player is racing against time. Cards drawn
from the Event Deck, determine when the Rebel Transports
make their escape, and two Event Cards are drawn each
turn. Thus, as the game progresses and more and more
Transports make their escape, the Imperial player is under
increasing pressure to destroy the Shield Generator before
the fifth one gets away.
In addition to determining when the Rebel Transports
escape, draws from the Event Deck also detail when Rebel
and Imperial reinforcements arrive and when other
unusual events -The Force, lucky shots, Repair Droids,
and the like -come into play. Thus, important aspects of
the game vary each time you play, making each game dif-
ferent and exciting!
How to Use this Rules Booklet
Assault on Hoth is not a complicated game but the Rules
of Play must be presented in a format that allows the
players to learn the game when first read and to find
answers to questions during play. For this reason, many
rules contain parenthesized numbers that refer you to other
parts of the booklet for clarification. When reading the
rules for the first time, ignore the references as much as
possible. When a question arises during play, however, you
may find the references very useful.
2.
A Look at the
Game Parts
A complete copy of Assault on Hoth contains:
.One map board
.59 counters
.60 plastic stands
.40 markers
.Ten dice (eight fire dice and two normal)
.42 cards
2.1 The Game Board
Most of the game board contains the terrain over which
the dramatic battle for Echo Base Hoth was fought.
The game board also includes Walker and Snowspeeder
displays (which you use to record the condition of those
vehicles) and several charts and diagrams for easy
reference during play.
Assault on Hoth recreates the dramatic battle between
Imperial and Rebel forces first revealed in the movie, The
Empire Strikes Back. The opposing forces include an Im-
perial Snowtrooper Assault Group with AT-STs 
and Imperial
Walkers, and Echo Base Hoth Ground Defense units, con-
sisting of Rebel Troopers, Laser Towers, and Snowspeeders.
The Imperial Forces must reach and destroy the Shield
Generators protecting Echo Base from space attack before
the Rebels evacuate the planet; the Rebels' objective is to
delay the destruction of the Shield Generator for as long
as possible, allowing the Rebellion's main command in-
stallation to escape.
One player takes command of the Imperial Ground
Assault Group, the other commands Echo Base Ground
Defense Forces.
How the Game is Played
Each player has cardboard pieces, called units, represen-
ting the men and vehicles which took part in the battle
of Hoth. The players maneuver their units across a map
of the northern defensive perimeter of Echo Base, where
the battle was fought.
The Imperial Forces consist of several All Terrain-
Armored Transports (AT-ATs) 
or Walke~. These huge, beast-
like vehicles wield extremely powerful blasters and are so
heavily armored as to be almost impervious to fire. In ad-
dition the Imperial player controls several All Terrain-Scout
Transports, or AJ:S1S, which, while not as heavily armed
as their larger cousins, move quite rapidly across the frozen
tundra around Echo Base. Finally, the Imperial player com-
mands elite heavy and light Snowtrooper (l'rooper) units.
The Rebel player's forces consist of Laser Towe~, which
are fixed-position, heavy blasters, and Rebel light and
heavy Trooper units, representing the valiant men and
women who tried so desperately to destroy Imperial
Walkers with puny hand weapons. Completing the Rebel
forces are Snowspeeders, 
fast-attack, low-altitude repulsor-
craft armed with medium blasters. The Snowspeeders 
must
close with the massive Walkers and strike an effective blow
with their medium blasters or use their unorthodox -but
highly-effective -secondary weapons: the Harpoons.
Assault on Hoth is played in a series of turns. During
a turn, each player has opportunities to perform actions
(that is, to move or fire his units). The order in which units
move and fire changes from turn to turn because it is deter-
mined by drawing cards from the Action Deck.
Combat is fast and furious. Each unit has a fire strength,
showing how powerful its blasters are, and an armor
strength, reflecting how well it stands up to enemy fire.

Macrohexes 
and Hexes
The map shows the northern section of the Rebel Defense
Perimeter of Echo Base. It is divided into macrohexes, which
you use to determine the range between firing and target
units in fire (7.2). Each macro hex is further divided into
seven hexes, which you use in movement of your units (6).
The Base Box
Echo Base Hoth was an underground warren, carved out
of the permafrost that covers the planet to a depth of 20
or more meters. Conditions on the ice planet's surface are
incredibly dangerous at night (temperatures descend to
-67 degrees centigrade), so the defensive positions around
the base were connected by a complex of tunnels. During
the battle, Rebel forces used these tunnels to move safely
and quickly around the battlefield.
The Base Box represents the underground Haven, and
the various Base Entry hexes are entrances into the tun-
nel complex (see 6.6 for details of how to use the tunnels).
The Fire/Armor Strength Charts
These list the fire and armor strengths of all units in the
game. The armor strengths of the Shield Generator and
Power Grid are also listed (7.2).
Walker and Snowspeeder 
Displays
Imperial Walkers and Rebel Snowspeeders are your most
powerful units. Each can take more punishment than other
units before being destroyed. If you're the Imperial player
you'll use the Walker Displays to record damage to Walkers
during play; if you're the Rebel player use the Snowspeeder
Displays (7.3).
The Damage Tables
You will use the Damage Tables to determine the extent
of damage that fire causes to Walkers and Snowspeeders
when they are hit (see 7.3).
Luke Skywalker's 
Force Points Track
Luke Skywalker was an important factor in the Rebellion's
defense of Hoth. His innate talents and command of The
Force made him a formidable fighter.
If you are the Rebel player, you will use the Force Points
Track to record the expenditure of Force Points, which you
spend to improve Luke's performance in the battle.
Walker Field of Fire Diagram
Since a Walker's blasters are mounted on its head and the
great machine-beasts cannot turn quickly, a Walker may
fire only at targets in front of it. The Walker Field of Fire
diagram shows where a Walker's blasters may and may not
fire.
2.2 Playing 
Pieces 
.,
In Assault on Hoth, each player has playing pieces (units)
representing his forces. Rebel units (Snowspeeders,
Troopers, and Laser Towers) have a blue background; Im-
perial units (Walkers, AT-STs, and Snowtroopers) have a
purple background. Each piece fits into a plastic stand so
that it will stand upright.
Terrain on the Map
Hoth is an ice planet, primarily snow-covered plains, but
the battlefield around Echo Base contained several other
types of terrain that played an important role in the bat-
tle. (Refer to the Terrain Key on the map while reading the
following.)
There are three types of terrain on the map: clea1; rough,
and cliffs.
.Clear terrain: The clear terrain on the map represents
rock-hard, snow-covered permafrost. It is easy for all units
to move through, but your Troopers are more vulnerable
to fire there.
.Rough terrain: Rough terrain represents rocky hills
where the Rebels dug trenches and other defensive
emplacements. It slows the movement of Walkers (who
have to move carefully to avoid tripping), and the boulders
and trenches provide good defensive cover for Troopers
and AT-STs.
.Cliffs: 
Cliffs represent escarpments that are too steep
for Troopers, AT-STs, and Walkers to climb -but
Snowspeeders can fly over them.
Reinforcement 
Sectors
The Imperial player's reinforcements arrive in the Imperial
Reinforcement Sector along the northern end of the map;
Rebel reinforcements arrive at one of three points -the
two Rebel Reinforcement Sectors (along the southern and
western map edges), or the Rebel Base.

In addition, the smaller square pieces (markers) are placed
on the various displays to record damage (7.3) and on the
Force Points Track to record Force Point expenditures (9).
Before play begins, assemble your units.
.First, punch out the pieces from their boards.
.Put each piece in a plastic stand.
2.3 Fire and Damage Dice
There are two kinds of dice in Assault on Hoth: Eight
fire dice and two damage dice.
Fire Dice
The eight odd-looking dice are called fire dice. Two faces
of each fire die display a picture of Darth Vader's helmet,
called Vader symbols, and two others contain a picture of
a Jedi Lightsaber, called Saber symbols. The other two
faces of each fire die are blank.
When the Imperial player fires with one of his units at
the enemy, he rolls fire dice, hoping to get enough Vader
symbols to hit the target. When the Rebel player fires, he
rolls fire dice and looks for Saber symbols.
.Vader symbols are always irrelevant to the Rebel
player and Saber symbols are irrelevant to the 1m.
perial player (7.2).
/~

,
Damage Dice
You use these standard 6-sided dice to determine the ex-
tent of damage done when one of your Snowspeeders or
Walkers is hit (7.3).
2.4 Cards
There are three types of cards in Assault on Hoth: Ac-
tion Cards, Event Cards, and a Hero Card.
.Action Cards determine when units may move and fire
(5,6, and 7).
.Event Cards describe important occurrences during the
battle (8).
.The Hero Card is used by the Rebel player to secretly
assign Luke Skywalker to a Snowspee.der 
(9).
F1~~!~~~~ AN ACTION CARD
Type of Action Round
Unit type/Action type
Details. of Actions and
Restrictions
To begin play, do the following:
1. Pick Sides: Decide who will control the Rebel Defense
Forces and who will control the Imperial Ground Assault
Group.
2. Bring out the Board: Lay the board in the middle of
a table. The Rebel player sits on the side with the
Snowspeeder Displays, the Imperial player sits opposite
him.
3. Set Up the Card Decks: Remove the blank cards and
give the Rebel player the Luke Hero Card. Separate the
remaining cards into two decks: the Action Deck and the
Event Deck. Shuffle each deck individually and place them
in a convenient place.
4. Set Up Your Units: You are now ready to place your
units on the map and begin.
Most of the Rebel player's units begin the game in posi-
tion on the map or in the Base Box; the majority of the
Imperial player's units begin in the Imperial Reinforcement
Sector. 
'
3.1 Imperial Set-up
The Imperial player begins play with the four Walkers
numbered 1-4, two AT-STs, eight light Snowtroopers, and
four heavy Snowtroopers.
.Walkers and AT.STs: Place your Walkers and AT-STs in
the Imperial Reinforcement Sector, one to a hex. The
Walkers may begin thf game "facing" any direction (6.3).

"Echo Base! This is Echo Station 3-4. We are being over-
run! I say again: Walkers are overrunning this position! Will
withdraw to Station 2-4 immediately. Do you copy, Echo
Ba.. .(hssssssssssss)."
-Unknown 
Rebel Trooper
.Snowtroopers: 
Assign your Snowtroopers to Walkers
(they are carried into battle by the Walkers). Each Walker
carries three Snowtroopers of either type. To indicate
which TroOpers are assigned to each Walker, place them
in the Carried Troops box of the appropriate Walker
Displays (Display 1 corresponds to Walker 1, Display 2, to
~I~er 2, and so on).
3.2 Rebel Set.up
The Rebel player's starting forces consist of the five
Snowspeeders 
numbered 1-5, ten light Troopers, four heavy
Troopers, and six Laser Towers.
.Snowspeeders: Place your Snowspeeders in Rebel Rein-
forcement Sector 4, one per hex.
.All other units: Place all your other units on the map
anywhere south of the Rebel Forward Line (one per hex).
No unit may be placed in cliff hexes. You may place any
or all Rebel Troopers in the Base Box.
.Luke.: Assign Luke to one o~he Snowspeeders 
by secret-
ly placmg the Luke Hero Car'CI 
"Under the board, beneath
one of the Snowspeeder displays.
'Its not how fast you move-its when you move that
:ounts. .."
-GeneraiVeen, 
Co~manding Imperial Ground Assault Group
At the beginning of each Action Round, draw the top
Action Card. The Action Card drawn determines what hap-
pens during the current Action Round. After the last Ac-
tion Card is drawn, the turn is over. Shuffle the Action Cards
together and begin the next turn.
5.1 Draw Event Cards
If the Action card revealed says Draw Event Card, turn over
the top card in the Event Deck. Section 8 explains how
to resolve Events.
5.2 Action Cards
If the card revealed is not a Draw Event Card, all of one
player's units of the listed type may perform the action in-
dicated on the card. Note, though, that a player is never
required to do anything with his units just because an Ac-
tion Card allows it.
.If only one action is listed on the card, each unit of
the listed type may perform that action.
.If more than one action is listed, each of the listed
units may do any of the actions.
Example: At the beginning of an Action Round, a Walkers
Move or Fire card is drawn. The Imperial player may move
some Walkers and fire others, or move all Walkers, or fire
all Walkers. He ma~ if he wishes, choose not to move or
fire some or all of his Walkers.
"Look. Those Walkers' blasters are m~rde7: You can't go
toe-to-toe with 'em. You golla outmalleuv~r 'em-get in
behind. 'Cause if they get a decent shot oft; you've had it."
-Colonel Firest, Commanding Edlo ~Ground 
Defenses
All units in the game may move when the appropriate
Action Card is drawn. Units are moved from hex to hex,
using a system based upon Movement /bints (MPs) to deter-
mine how far a unit may move.
The game is played in a series of turns. Each turn is divid-
ed into a number of Action Rounds.
You initiate each Action Round by drawing the top card
from the Action Deck. The card indicates what units may
perform actions and what actions they may perform dur-
ing the round. Following is an outline of a turn:
Turn Outline
Draw an Action Card
.If it is a Draw Event card, draw an Event Card (8).
.If it is not, one player moves or fires with any or all units
of the type indicated on the card (5, 6, and 7).
After the actions indicated on the card have been per-
formed, place the card to the side and perform another
Action Round.
.If no Action Cards remain to be drawn, the turn is over;
shuffle the Action Deck back together and begin another
turn.
Play continues in this manner until one or the other
player wins (10).
~.

\
.Mounting/Dismounting 
Snowtroopers: Snowtroopers
pay 1 MP to enter or leave a Walker (6.4).
.The Base: Rebel Troopers pay 1 extra MP to enter or
leave the Base (6.5).
Prohibited 
Moves
.No unit may end its move in a hex occupied by another
unit.
.No unit may ever leave the map (but see 6.5).
.No unit (except Snowspeeders) may enter Cliff hexes.
.Walkers may not enter the Power Grid or Shield
Generator hexes.
6.2 Troopers, Snowspeeders,
and AT-STs
Troopers, Snowspeeders, 
and AT-STs have many movement
characteristics in common; Walkers are different.
Direction 
of Movement
You may move Troopers, Snowspeeders, 
and AT-STs in any
direction or combination of directions.
Moving Through Units
Troopers, Snowspeeders, 
and AT-STs may be moved through
friendly or enemy units without restriction, but you may
never end their move in a hex with another unit.
Each unit receives 5 Movement Points when an Action
Card permitting it to move is drawn. In general, it costs
a unit 1 MP to move 1 hex, so units may move up to 5
hexes during an Action Round. Units may move in any
direction or combination of directions. Most are unaffected
by the terrain type they are moving through; however,
because they are extremely large and difficult to maneuver,
Walkers are restricted as outlined below.
6.1 General Rules of Movement
You move units one at a time, completing one unit's move
before beginning another's. During their move, all units
may spend up to 5 MPs. Each unit may spend some, none,
or all of its MPs to move during an Action Round. Any MPs
not spent during an Action Round are lost, they may not
be saved.
Movement Costs
.Clear: All units pay 1 MP to enter clear hexes.
.Rough: Walkers pay 3 MPs to enter rough hexes; all other
units pay 1.
.Cliffs: Snowspeeders pay 1 MP to enter cliff hexes; no
other unit may enter cliff hexes.
.Turning: Walkers pay 1 MP to "turn" one hexside (6.3).
MOVEMENT DIAGRAM 
It is the beginning 
of a turn. A Snow-
speeders Move card is drawn. The Rebel
player may spend up to 5 MPs to move
each of his Speeders. He moves Speeder
1 as shown. expending all of its MPs. Note
that Speeder 1 passed through another
unit without penalty. though it could not
stop there.
The next Action Card drawn is an AT-STs
Move card. The Imperial player moves the
AT-ST as shown. choosing to expend only 2
MPs. The 3 unused MPs are lost: they may
not be saved for another Action Round or
transferred to another unit. 
'
~8

6.3 Walker Facing and Movement
Because of their awkwardness and limited "field of fire"
(7.1), it is important to show exactly which way a Walker
is heading. Thus, your Walkers must always face a specific
hex.
.A 
Walker may not ever move through another
Walker.
Movement Through Rough Hexes
It costs a Walker 3 MPs to enter a rough hex (they must
move slowly and cautiously to avoid falling). If the Walker
has fewer than 3 MPs remaining, it may not enter a rough
hex.
MOVEMENT DIAGRAM 2
~:;i=~;
j,,
~~'
~r 
~(... .
r 2-MII:
j';.(
t
--
~ -~~J:_~~~::._'
Direction of Movement and Turning
A Walker must always be moved to the hex directly in front
of it; it may not enter a hex it is not facing. If you want
a Walker to move into another hex, it must turn to face
that hex first. It costs 1 MP to turn a Walker (change its
facing) one hexside. (Thus, a Walker that enters a hex
directly behind it, pays 4 MPs to do so-3 MPs to turn 3
hexsides, and 1 MP to enter the new hex.)
A Walkers Move card is drawn.
.Walker 1 moves directly forward 5 spaces, expending
all of its movement points (and, incidentally, stomping
a Snowtrooper -these 
things happen).
.Walker 2 moves into a rough hex (costing 3 MPs), turns
one hexside to the right (1 MP), then expends its last MP
to move into the clear hex and crush the Rebel Laser
Tower.
.Walker 3 moves forward one hex (1 MP), turns one hex-
side to the left (1 MP), moves forward (1 MP), turns one
hexside to the right (1 MP), and moves forward (expen-
ding its last MP).
The Snowspeeder in the Walker's way is displaced.
The Rebel player decides to move it to the rough hex;
this costs the Speeder (and the Walker) no MPs.
Movement Through Units
Like other units, a Walker may freely move through other
units. But because of its tremendous size, this has a bad
effect on the units being moved through-even other
Imperials.
-If you move a Walker into a Trooper's, Tower's, or
AT-ST's hex, that unit is destroyed (remove it from play).
-If you move a Walker into a Snowspeeder's hex, the
Snowspeeder is displaced to any empty adjacent hex of
the Rebel player's choice (even the hex from which the
Walker entered). This move does not cost the Snowspeeder
any MPs.
6.4 Walker Transport of Snowtroopers
A Walker may transport up to three Snowtroopers. This
has no effect upon the Walker's movement or combat
capabilities.
,~
I.
/

Movement To and From the Base
A Rebel Trooper in a Base entry hex may spend 1 addi-
tional MP to enter the Base. Simply pick up the Trooper
and place it in the Base Box. After entering the Base, the
Trooper may move no further during that Action Round.
It costs a Trooper 1 MP to leave the Base Box and move
to any Base entry hex. The Trooper may continue mov-
ing with its remaining 4 MPs.
.A Trooper may not enter or leave the Base from a Base
entry hex occupied by an Imperial unit.
7. Flr.lng at the Enemy
When an Action Card permitting units to fire is drawn,
any or all units of the listed type may do so. Each unit fires
individually, and any result is applied to the target before
another unit may fire. A player may fire the units in any
order he wishes.
Each unit may fire only once during a round, but an
enemy unit may be the target of any number of fires. Rebel
Troopers in the Base Box and Snowtroopers aboard
Walkers may never fire nor be fired at. Snowspeeders
which occupy cliff hexes may neither fire nor be fired at.
.No unit is ever required to fire.
Mounting and Dismounting 
Snowtroopers
Snowtroopers mount or dismount from Walkers during the
Snowtroopers' movement. A Snowtrooper spends 1 MP to
mount or dismount a Walker. (Thus, a Snowtrooper could
dismount, then move up to 4 MPs during its move; or it
could move up to 4 MPs into a Walker's hex, then mount.)
.Snowtroopers dismount into the hex their Walker oc-
cupies and then must move to an unoccupied hex; take
the dismounting Snowtrooper from the Walker's Carried
Troops box and place it on the map.
.A Snowtrooper must enter a Walker's hex in order to
mount; place the Snowtrooper into the Carried Troops box
of the appropriate Walker display.
6.5 The Rebel Base
The defensive positions of Echo Base Hoth are connected
by a series of tunnels and are joined to a central
underground Base. Rebel Troopers (only) may use these~nels 
to move quickly and safely around the battlefield.
Entrances to the tunnel system are located at the Base
entry hexes (indicated by the word Base and a door
symbol).
An unlimited number of Rebel Troopers may occupy the
Base Box simultaneously. Place all Rebel Troopers who are
underground in the Base Box.
A Rebel Troopers Move card is drawn.
.The Rebel light Trooper moves to the Baseel;)try hex (expen-
ding 2 MPs to do so). then enters the Base (expending another
MP). Though the light Trooper has spent just 3 MPs. and has
2 remaining. it may not move any farther.
.The Rebel heavy Trooper in the Base moves to the Base en-
try hex (1 MP). then spends its remaining 4 MPs as shown.
.Note: If the Imperial light Snowtrooper was occupying the
Base entry hex. no Rebel Troopers could enter or leave the
Base via that entry hex.

-1 FIRE DIAGRAM 1
7.1 Walker Fields of Fire
Because their blasters are mounted on their heads and
their heads can turn only so far, Walkers may fire only at
targets which are in their field of fire. No other unit in the
game is restricted in this way.
The Walker Field of Fire diagram (on the map) shows
this field of fire. A Walker may fire at any Rebel unit within
the black area; any outside this shaded area may not be
fired at.
Note: The Diagram shows a Walkers Field of fire exten-
ding only four hexes. This does not indicate a limit to the
Walkers range,' you must imagine that the black area on
the diagram extends an unlimited number of hexes in the
directions indicated.
/~ 
.,
~1-
.~-
i~.r?V'~ ~
:'"
I ~~"b::'
-
I,~
--7.2--Resolving
Fire
When a unit fires, the player controlling the firing unit rolls
fire dice to determine if the fire hits its target.
Fire and Armor Strengths
The number of dice the firing player rolls depends upon
the firing unit's fire strength. He rolls a number of fire dice
equal to the firing unit's fire strength in an attempt to get
a numbr of "relevant symbols" (Sabers for the Rebel and
Vaders for the Imperial) equal to or greater than the target's
armor strength.
.All fire and armor strengths are listed on the Fire/Ar-
mor Strength Charts.
Example: The Imperial player is firing. His firing units fire
strength is 6 and the targets armor strength is 3. The Im-
perial player rolls 6 fire dice,. if he gets 3 Vader symbols,
the target is hit.
Fire Strength Modifiers
Each time a unit fires, its fire strength is modified accor-
ding to the range to the target and the terrain the target
occupies.
.Range: Range is determined by counting the number
of macrohexes between the firer and target (including the
target's macro hex but not the firer's). The fire strength is
reduced by a number equal to the range. (For example,
a Snowspeeder (fire strength of 5) firing at a target 2
macro hexes away would have its fire strength reduced to
3: that is, 5-2=3.)
.Terrain: The only terrain that affects a unit's fire strength
is rough. If a unit fires at a Laser Tower, AT-ST, or Trooper
occupying rough terrain, its fire strength is reduced by 1.
Fire at a Walker or Snowspeeder in rough terrain is
not affected.
A Walkers Move or Fire card is drawn. The Imperial player
chooses to fire with Walker 1.
If Walker 1 were to fire at the Laser Tower, Walker 1's
modified fire strength would be 3: that is, 6 (the Walker's
normal fire strength) minus 2 (for range) minus 1 (the tower
is in Rough terrain). Thus, the Imperial player would have
to roll two or more Vaders (the Laser Tower's armor strength
is 2) with three fire dice (the Walker's modified fire strength)
to hit the tower.
If Walker 1 were to fire at Snowspeeder 4, Walker 1's
modified fire strength would be 4, that is. 6 (the Walker's
normal 
fire strength) 
minus 
2 (range). 
Though the
Snowspeeder is in Rough terrain, Snowspeeders receive no
benefit for this. Thus, the Imperial player would have to roll
two or more Vaders (the Speeder's armor strength is 2) with
four dice to hit the Speeder.
If the Walker were to fire at the light Rebel Trooper, its fire
strength would remain 6: the range is 0,' and the Trooper
is in clear terrain. The Imperial player would have to roll
one or more Vader symbol with six fire dice-a 
very easy
shot.
The Walker could not fire at Snowspeeder 5; it is out of
the Walker's field of fire.

7.3 Results of Fire
Against lightly armored targets-Laser Towers, Troopers,
and A~STs-the awesome fire power carried by Rebel and
Imperial forces is devastating; such targets are destroyed
if hit. However Walkers and Snowspeeders are tougher to
knock out.
Destroying 
Towers, Troopers, 
and AT-STs
If a Laser Tower, Trooper, or AT-ST is hit by enemy fire it
is destroyed; remove it from the board.
Walker 
Damage 
and Effects
When a Walker is hit by enemy fire, the Rebel player must
check the extent of damage he has done by rolling the
damage dice. He adds them together and consults the
Walker Damage Table.
If the result is 2 or 3, the fire has hit the Walker's
blasters.
.If this is the first time the Walker's blasters have been
hit, place a Blaster Damage marker in the Blaster Damage
box of the appropriate Walker Display to indicate that the
Walker's fire strength is reduced by 3 for the remainder
of the game.
Impossible Shots
If the target's armor strength is greater than the firer's
modified fire strength the fire cannot possibly hit the target.
(For example, a Rebel light Trooper firing at a Walker one
macro hex away could not possibly hit: the Trooper's fire
strength would be 2 and the Walker's armor strength, 3
-it 
is impossible to roll three Sabers with only two fire
dice.)
Rolling the Fire Dice
After determining the fire strength of a shot, the firing
player rolls a number of fire dice equal to the firing unit's
modified fire strength. If a player rolls a number of rele-
vant symbols (Sabers for the Rebel, Vaders for the Imperial)
equal to or greater than the defending unit's armor
strength, the fire hits the target.
Example: A Snowspeeder is firing at a Walker in the same
macrohex. The Rebel player rolls five fire dice. The dice
turn up two Sabers, two Vaders, and one blank. Since the
Walkers armor strength is 3 and the Rebel player rolled
only two Sabers, the fire misses.
A Walkers Fire card is drawn next and the Walker fires
back at the Snowspeedel: The Imperial player rolls six dice:
he gets three Vaders and three Sabers. Since the
Snowspeeders armor strength is 2 and the Imperial player
rolled at least two Vaders, the fire hits.

.If this is the second blaster hit, flip the Blaster Damage
to its Blaster Destroyed side to indicate that
may not fire for the remainder of the game.
.Any subsequent blaster hits are treated as body hits (see
H the result is 4.9, The shot has hit the Walker's body,
.If this is the Walker's first body hit, place a Body Damage
marker in the box marked 1st Hit.
.If it's the second, place a new Body Damage marker in
the box marked 2nd Hit, and remove any carried troops
from the Carried Troops box (they have been destroyed).
In addition, a Walker with two body hits may not mount
Snowtroopers for the remainder of the game.
.If it's the third body hit, flip the 2nd Body Damage
marker to its Walker Destroyed side, and remove the
Walker from the map; it is destroyed.
If the result is ]0.]], 
the shot has hit the Walker's
legs,
.If this is the Walker's first leg hit, place a Leg Damage
marker in the Leg Damage box to indicate that the
Walker's movement allowance is reduced by 2 for the re-
.If this is the second leg hit, flip the Leg Damage marker
to its Immobilized side to indicate that the Walker may
not move or change facing for the remainder of the game.
.Any subsequent leg hits are treated as body hits.
If the result is ]2, it's a critical hit,
The Walker (and any troops it carries) is destroyed im-
mediately; remove it from the map.

Snowspeeder 
Damage and Effects
When a Snowspeeder is hit, the attacker rolls the damage
dice, adds them together, and consults the Snowspeeder
Damage Table to determine the extent of the damage.
.If 
it's the second body hit, flip the Speeder Damage
marker over to its Speeder Destroyed side and remove the
Snowspeeder from the map; it is destroyed.
If the result is ] ].]2, it's a critical 
hit.
The Snowspeeder is destroyed immediately; remove it from
the map.
7.4. Firing Harpoons
Harpoons -power 
harpoon cannons with high-tension
tow cable and fusion discs -were an innovation of the
noted Rebel tactician, Beryl Chiffonage.
Knowing that Walkers were too large and well-armored
for most of the Rebellions weaponr); Chiffonage dreamed
of a way to use their size against them. He realized that
the Walkers' greatest strength was, potentiall); their greatest
weakness-if the Rebellion could find a way to'trip them,
theyii be crushed by their own weight.
While on an expedition to the primitive planet Verig, Chif-
fonage found the answet: The natives of Verig, nomadic
hunters, used a bola-like weapon (a long rope with stones
tied to either end) to trip up the huge, elephantine
Pryss-creatures.
The Rebellion owes its success at Hoth tbthose primitive
nDmads.
If the result is 2-4, the Snowspeeder's 
gunner is hit.
.Place a Gunner Killed marker in the Gunner Killed box
of the appropriate Snowspeeder display to indicate that the
Snowspeeder's fire strength is permanently reduced by 2
and that the Speeder may not use its Harpoons.
.Any 
subsequent gunner hits are treated as body hits.
If the result is 5-10, the shot hit the Snowspeeder's
body.
.If this is the Snowspeeder's first body hit, place a Speeder
Damage marker in the Body Damage box of the ap-
propriate Snowspeeder Display.
One of the Action Cards says "Snowspeeders Move, Fire,
or Harpoon." If a Snowspeeder is in the proper position
when this card comes up, its attack can be deadly. If a Har-
poon attack fails, there is no effect. But if it hits, the Walker
is destroyed immediately.
Which Snowspeeders 
May Harpoon
Only Snowspeeders with a live gunner that are adjacent
to a Walker may make Harpoon attacks. (Note that it is
possible for a Snowspeeder to be adjacent to a Walker yet
occupy a different macrohex.).
.Only Walkers may be harpooned.
~~~~~~~!~EDER DISPLAY DIAGRAM
Snowspeeder 1 has been hit twice, once in the
body and once in the cockpit, kirling Jhe gun-
ner. Since the gunner is dead, the pilot must fire
the Speeder's blaster, reducing the SPeeder's fire
strength by 2 for the remainder of the game. if
the Speeder takes another hit it will be destroyed,
because any additional gunner hits are treated
as body hits, and it already has one body hit.

How Harpoon A"acks 
are Resolved
Harpoon attacks are resolved the same as normal fire at-
tacks. If the Snowspeeder is in the same macro hex as the
Walker it is attempting to harpoon, the Rebel player rolls
5 dice; if not, he rolls 4.
Two Action Cards say "Draw Event Card:' When you
draw one of these Action Cards, pick up the top Event Card
and take a look. Place used Event Cards aside; the Event
Deck is never reshuffled.
There are 3 kinds of Events: Reinforcements, Transports
Away! and special effects.
HARPOON 
DIAGRAM
I~
Reinforcements
When a Reinforcement Event is drawn, immediately place
the listed units in any hexes of the indicated Reinforcement
Sector (or in the Base Box).
.Place Imperial Troopers arriving aboard a Walker in the
Walker's Carried Troops box.
Once on the map, reinforcements may move or fire
whenever the appropriate Action Card is drawn.
-<
",-~
Transports Away!
These cards detail when the Rebel transports make their
run for freedom. If the fifth Transport Away! appears before
the Imperial player destroys the Shield Generator, the Rebel
player wins the game.
.There is a small chance that the first five cards in the
Event Deck will be Transport Away! cards. Should this
unlikely event occur, you may want to re-shuffle the last
one back into the deck and continue playing.
Special Effects
These cards detail unusual occurrences on the battlefield-
Combat Repair Oroids successfully repairing damage to a
Walker, The Force aiding a Rebel gunner, and so on. Each
card contains an explanation of how it is used.
The Snowspeeders Move. Fire. or Harpoon card is drawn.
.Snowspeeder 
2 is adjacent to the Walker; it may at-
tempt to Harpoon. Since it is in a different macrohex,
its modified fire strength is 4 (-1 for range). If it rolls 3
Sabers, the Walker is destroyed.
.Snowspeeder 
3 is not adjacent to the Walker (even
though it is in the same macrohex); it may not make a
harpoon attack. Of course, it may still fire at the Walker.
.Snowspeeder 4 is adjacent and may make a harpoon
attack. If it rolls 3 Saber symbols on 5 dice, the Walker
is destroyed.
.Not« 
If either Speeder 2's or Speeder 4's gunner were
killed, that Speeder could not make a harpoon attack;
it could still fire, though, with reduced fire strength.
Because of his training at the feet of Obi Wan Kenobi
(and, as events proved, his. parentage), Luke Skywalker is
strong in The Force. This mystical ability makes him an
extremely dangerous opponent. The Imperial player will
be hard-pressed to defeat this young Jedi Warrior.
Assigning Luke
Before the game begins, the Rebel player secretly slips the
Luke Hero Card under the board, directly beneath a Snow-
speeder Display. This shows which Snowspeeder Luke is
flying. The Rebel player may keep Luke's location a secret
until Luke "uses The Force:'
"In War; the most dreadful of pursuits, the only cer-
tainty is uncertainty."
-Admiral 
Ackbar, Rebel StarfIeet

Luke Skywalker's 
Force Points Track
Luke Skywalker's Force Points Track contains a summary
of how and when Luke may use The Force. In addition,
it contains a track which the Rebel player uses to record
the number of Force points Luke has spent during the
game.
.At the start of play, place the Luke's Force Points marker
in the 10 box of the Track. When Luke spends a point,
move the marker one box down the track. When the
marker reaches 0, Luke may not use The Force for the re-
Example: A Walkers Fire card is drawn. The Imperial
player announces that a Walker is firing at Lukes Snow-
speeder: The Rebel player announces that Luke will spend
2 Force Points, raising his Snowspeeders armor strength
from 2 to 4 for that entire round-thus, any and all Walker
attacks will require 4 Vaders to damage Lukes Snowspeeder
during this Action Round. The Rebel player moves Lukes
Force Points marker two spaces down Lukes Force Points
Track from the 10 to the 8 box.
When the next Action Card is drawn, Lukes armor
strength is back to normal-unless the Rebel player spends
more points.
Using The Force
Luke may use The Force for three purposes: to increase
his Speeder's fire strength, to increase his Speeder's armor
strength, or to reduce the effect of a critical hit against his
Speeder.
At the beginning of the game, Luke has 10 Force Points.
Each time he uses The Force, Force Points are spent. When
they're all gone, Luke may not use The Force for the re-
Increase his Fire Strength
For each Force point spent, increase Luke's fire strength
by one -for 
one fire only. He may spend Force points
to increase his fire strength in a harpoon attack as well
(assuming his gunner is unhurt).
.Luke may spend as many points as he wishes each time
he fires.
Increase his Armor Strength
For each point spent, Luke's armor strength is increased
by one against all subsequent enemy fire in the current
Action Round. The Rebel player announces that Luke will
use The Force (and how many points will be spent) after
the Imperial player announces he is firing at Luke, but
before the Imperial player rolls fire dice.
.Luke may spend as many points as he wishes during a
single Action round.
Reduce the effect of a Critical 
Hit
If Luke's Snowspeeder receives a critical hit, Luke may
spend a Force Point to reduce it to a Body hit. (Of course,
if that were Luke's second Body hit, it wouldn't do much
good...)
~1
10.1 Imperial Victory 
.
The Imperial player wins if he destroys the Shield
Generator before the fifth Transport Away! card is pulled
from the Event Deck.
Destroying the Shield Generator
The Shield Generator is destroyed. in the same way as a
unit. It has an armor strength of 3, and if hit, it is destroyed.
(Note that it is in rough terrain, and it does benefit from
being there.)
The Imperial player may reduce the Shield Generator's
armor strength to 2 by destroying the Power Grid.
The Power Grid
The Power Grid, which supplies power to the Shield
Generator's Ground Defense Shield, has an armor strength
of 3. If the Imperial player destroys the Grid, the Shield
Generator's armor strength is reduced to 2.
.When the Power Grid is destroyed, place the Power Grid
Out marker in the hex.
10.2 Rebel Victory
The Rebel player wins if the 5th Transport Away! card is
drawn before the Imperial player destroys the Shield
Generator. Alternatively, the Rebel wins if he destroys all
Imperial forces currently on the map.~
)