A game by G. Blossier & F. Henry – Graphics by Nicolas Fructus - Texts: Idic - Design by Cyril Demaegd 
FAQ and new variations: http://www.ystari.com
Box Contents
The creators would like to thank all those who dedicated their time in order to test the game and contributed to its constant 
improvement, in particular: Pierre Pinault, Olivier Caïra, Matthieu D’Epenoux, Franck Plass, Guillaume Bouilleux, Matthieu 
Blayo, Nicola Labianca, Charly Cazals, Madia Camara, Selma Blossier, the Cellules Grises team (Evry), the members of the 
Alpha association, the protonight of the Ancora café…
The publisher would like to thank his team, GL, as well as Nicolas and Idic for their vision of the Asteroyds world...
Thanks
1 board
6 spacecrafts
1 stopwatch
3 dice
48 transparent tokens
36 astéroids
6 Pilot tokens
24 Target tokens 
6 status charts
the rules
SET Up
● Open the board and place it in the middle of the table. 
● Each player chooses a pilot and places their status chart in front of them. 
● Each player chooses a color craft and the transparent tokens of the same color. One of the tokens is placed in the red 
column on the “Shield” icon (see below). 
● Another token is placed on the far left of the damage status row. The other tokens are kept within reach. 
● The Target tokens are sorted according to type and kept close to the board. 
● The Pilot tokens are put to one side. 
● Then, the players implement the scenario described on the following page (racing). 
● The last player to have flown is named player one. He takes the dice and the stopwatch. 
A Long Time Ago...
The Ujitos system: A tiny inhospitable planet and an erratic asteroid field - the Lost Swarm - orbit a deadly red star. No 
riches, no precious minerals. Ujitos has no strategic value whatsoever, not for the Federarchy, neither for the Astrocracy, 
nor for the Umpyrius. Yet, some shuttle racing organizers full of initiative stage competitions in this rocky no man’s land. And 
recently, Maryius Valentinus, a mega-rich entrepreneur has taken over Ujitos. The most dangerous, ferocious, twisted and 
prestigious race against death of the Independents Circuit is born... Six of the thirty top pilots are ready to partake to this 
intense and ruthless race with just one goal: win at all costs!
The race against death of the Lost Swarm, Ujitos, was voted “the most dangerous event of the Independents Circuit” for the 
eleventh GS year in a row by the Toberas Ardicentes magazine. 
 
Asteroyds is a multi-mode game. Several game modes are available such as racing, targets, drone hunting and all the 
variations and rules that you wish to make up yourself! These rules will introduce racing first before moving on to the other 
game modes (with increasing complexity). This game is yours to develop. Feel free to suggest your variations and ideas via 
the printable form on the game webpage. The best ideas will be published on the site and their creators will be rewarded. 
Finally, don’t hesitate to arrange the scenarios differently to what is suggested, or even to remove some asteroids if you 
think the game is too difficult! 
Preamble

Racing is a game mode for 2-6 players. 
Aim of the game: take off from the platform and travel through the 4 gates. 
Suggested amount of time for one turn: 50 seconds for beginners and 20 seconds for experts.
The game – RACING
1. Planning
The first player throws the dice, then places them by the board in the Red/White/Blue order. He announces the value of each 
dice out loud and starts the stopwatch. All the players can then start planning the moves of their craft. 
To plan the moves, the players use their status chart and the transparent tokens. Each status chart displays the following elements: 
A) Photo of the pilot B) 6 action columns C) Energy reserves column
D) Pilots special powers (used in the advanced rules) E) Damage status row 
Each player plans the moves of their craft by placing a transparent token on the pictogram he/she chooses in each column. The 
moves will take place in a left to right order. There are 6 different pictograms: 
1) Shoot (used in the advanced rules) 2) Move forward 3) Move to the right 
4) Move to the left 5) Turn back 6) Shield
The actions are planned within a limited time. As soon as the stopwatch sounds, all the players must stop planning, even if they are 
not finished placing their tokens! 
Game Round
B
A
C
D
E
Notes: 
-The arrows indicate the spacecraft orienta-
tion at the start. The spacecraft start the race 
from a platform but cannot return to it after-
wards (the platform becomes a hurdle like 
any other). 
-The asteroids orientation is random, that is 
to say: the numbers on their outline do not all 
point to the same direction. 
To increase the difficulty of the game: 
-The players can decide that they have to get 
back to the centre after completing the mis-
sion. 
To win, they must land back on a platform 
once they have the four tokens. 
-The players can decide to vary the order of 
the dice colours (rather than red/white/blue, 
they can use a random order at each turn). 

Objects
The asteroids are made up of several elements: 
● One or two colors (blue, white, red, white with red ring, white with blue ring). 
● Six numbers on their outline indicate the direction of the movement according to the dice. 
● One priority number in the centre, to manage collisions. 
● Finally, the gates entail one green symbol. Its purpose is to register the passage of the spacecraft. 
● The gates move like asteroids. The take-off platforms and the public pods do not move. 
2. Moving the asteroids 
The first player stops the stopwatch. The players then move the asteroids according to the results indicated by the dice. To 
simplify this phase, the players share the asteroids. For example, each player deals with one given part of the board (being 
careful not to move the same asteroid twice). 
1) The first player announces the number displayed by the red dice. Each red asteroid (including the red gates and the 
white/red asteroids) moves by two spaces in the direction indicated by the red dice. If during this move another object or a 
border obstructs your progress, stop on the last available space. 
2) The first player announces the number displayed by the white dice. Each white asteroid (including the white gates, the 
white/red and the white/blue asteroids) moves by one space in the direction indicated by the white dice. If during this move 
another object or a border obstructs your progress, the move is void. 
3) The first player announces the number displayed by the blue dice. Each blue asteroid (including the white/blue aster-
oids) moves by one space in the direction indicated by the blue dice. If during this move an asteroid (but not a craft, pod 
or platform) obstructs your progress, the blue asteroid pushes that other asteroid on by one space. Nevertheless, for this 
manoeuvre to be possible, the destination space of the moved asteroid must be available. 
Priority: when two elements of the same colour must be moved onto the same space, the one with the smallest priority 
number goes first and completes its whole move. 
example: the red dice displays 6. The red asteroid moves by 
two spaces. The white/red asteroid only moves on by one space 
because it is then blocked by a pod.
example: the white dice displays 4. The white/red asteroid 
moves on by one space. The white asteroid does not move 
because it is blocked by a craft.
example: the blue dice displays 2. The blue asteroid moves by 
one space and displaces the white asteroid. The white/blue as-
teroid cannot push on the red asteroid because there is another 
asteroid behind it. So it stays where it is. 
priority: the white dice displays 4. The asteroid and the white 
gate are both aiming for the same space but it is the asteroid 
that moves because its priority number (6) is smaller than that 
of the gate (24).
Red asteroid
White/blue asteroid 
White gate
Public pod
Platform

3. Flying
In turns, according to the order of the game, each of the players then moves their craft as per the planning that was made 
on the status chart. If, whilst moving, a craft collides with an asteroid, a border of the board or a fixed object, its planned 
progression stops. In addition, the craft incurs damage due to the collision (see below). Nevertheless, spacecraft cannot 
collide and so several craft can occupy the same space.
Move forward: the craft moves on by one hexagon.
Move to the right: the craft pivots one notch to the right and 
moves on by one hexagon.
Move to the left: the craft pivots one notch to the left and moves 
on by one hexagon.
Turn back: the craft turns back within the hexagon where it is 
located.
As soon as a craft comes into contact with another object, it incurs damage that is reported on the damage status row. This 
does not affect the performance of the craft but if the last space of the damage status row is reached, the craft is destroyed 
and the pilot watches the end of the race from his/her rescue pod!
Shield: all the spacecraft are equipped with an energy shield that allows them to absorb the impact of collisions. That shield 
is activated by default at the beginning of each turn, but if the pilots use their reserve energy otherwise (red column of the 
status chart), they deactivate the shield and expose themselves to more risk. When the shield is activated, the pilot benefits 
from one less damage point per collision.
Collisions: the collisions occur when a craft and another object come into contact.
1) Collision of an asteroid with a craft: this type of collision is only possible during asteroid moves.
If an asteroid must be moved onto a space where a craft is present, it stays where it is but inflicts one damage point to the 
craft (but not if the shield is activated).
2) Collision of a craft with a fixed object: if a craft, whilst moving, experiences a collision with a fixed object (border of 
the board, platforms and public pods), its progress is immediately interrupted and the craft incurs two damage points (just 
one if its shield is activated).
3) Collision of a craft with an asteroid: the effects of a craft to asteroid collision are the same as those of a collision to a 
fixed object (two damage points, or one if the shield is activated), but the pilot has an alternative.
Destroying an asteroid: If the player so wishes, once per game he/she can destroy the asteroid in exchange for four 
damage points (three if his/her shield is available). Once he/she has incurred the damage, he/she removes the asteroid 
from the game, places it in front of him/her and continues his/her planning normally (which can still possibly cause him/her 
further damage).
Note: to be able to destroy an asteroid, the pilot must have at his disposal all the damage points that he/she needs (four, or 
three with the shield), otherwise he/she will pathetically crash during the attempt whilst the asteroid stays in place!
example: Dolorosa is moving. She has planned to turn back, then move forward, then to the left and finally to the right. Unfortunately, 
that last move is upset by the presence of a public pod. Consequently, her progress stops at once (her craft has pivoted to the right but 
will not move on) and she sustains damage. Normally, her craft would incur two damage points, but as her shield is activated, she only 
incurs one. With four damage points sustained, she can no longer destroy any asteroids! 

Gates: the gates move like asteroids, except they can be crossed without any damage to the spacecraft. If in the course of 
the game a player’s craft ends up on the same space as a gate (be it because of the move of the gate or that of the craft), 
the player picks a Target token with the same symbol as that on the gate and he places it in front of him (except if he already 
has a token displaying that symbol).
4. End of the round
The round ends as soon as each player has finished their planning. Then, each player resets their status chart by activating 
their shield and removing the other tokens (apart from the one registering damage). The player sitting left of the first player 
becomes the new player one and takes over the dice and the stopwatch.
Victory
The game ends when a player has gone through the four gates. The round still goes on to establish whether any other play-
ers also manage that feat.
Draw: if two players or more go through their last gate in the same round, the status chart will settle the winner. The one who 
has gone through the gate sooner (i.e. the player who has used the column closest to the far left to cross the gate) wins the 
game. If the players are still tied at this stage, the one who has incurred the least damage is declared the winner.
Advanced rules: Pilots special powers
Each pilot has a special power that arises from his craft modifications and that can be used once per game. To play this 
variation of the game, each player uses the Pilot token corresponding to the pilot they control. They place the token on 
their status chart. Once per game, that token can be used instead of a transparent token by being placed in one of the 
planning columns. The pilot will then execute the special action rather than a normal action. Then, the token is discarded. 
Hector: when he places his token in a column, he moves forward 
twice.
Dolorosa: when she places her token in a column, she turns 
back and moves forward.
Lawrence: he has an emergency shield at his disposal to cancel 
one damage point. This decision whether to use this is taken 
when the damaged is sustained, not during the planning.
Yayenek: when he places his token in a column, he moves back-
wards by one space without changing the orientation of his craft.
M’Hand: when he places his token in a column, he can pivot 
his craft twice before moving on. This manoeuvre can be imple-
mented to the right or to the left.
1634: when he places his token in a column, he can pivot once 
or twice without moving on. He simply pivots his craft any way 
he likes within the hexagon where he is located. This manoeuvre 
can be implemented to the right or to the left.

Advanced rules: Shooting
There is no shooting in racing but it is allowed in all the other game modes. When a player plans to shoot, their craft proj-
ects a laser beam forward. That beam cannot reach the other spacecraft but it is obstructed by any other object in its way 
(whether or not that hurdle is the one that was meant to be the target is another story!)
Note: each player can program as many shots as they wish for their turn. Nevertheless, players who wish to spice up the 
game can limit the shooting to one per turn.
example: the craft shoots at the gate but the shot is obstructed by the white asteroid.
Targets is a game mode for 2-6 players in teams
Aim of the game: destroy the targets allocated to your team
Suggested amount of time for one turn: 1 minute for beginners and 30 seconds for experts
Game mode – Targets
Note:
- The asteroids are laid out at random, that 
is to say that the numbers on their outline do 
not all point in the same direction.
Handicap:
- The players in unbalanced teams can bal-
ance the game by allocating fewer targets to 
the team with fewer players. For example, 
playing 2 against 3, the 2 player team will 
only need 4 targets instead of 6 to win the 
game. The players can also use this method 
to balance a game between players of differ-
ing strengths.
Special rules: this game mode is played in teams or 1 against 1. It is not compulsory that the teams should be balanced 
(for example, 2 can play against 3).
● Take 2 sets of Target tokens (displaying the same symbol). The six Targets of a set are placed on the white asteroids 
located on the right, and the six others on the white asteroids located on the left (including the two-colour ones).
● The team starting from the right aims at the Targets located on the left of the board and the team starting from the left 
aims at the Targets located on the right of the board.
● When a player manages to shoot an asteroid, he takes a Target token and places it in front of him.
● It is possible to eliminate the target by destroying the asteroid that carries it. A player can also shoot or destroy an as-
teroid carrying a target allocated to the other team, which makes life easier for the opponents!
● As soon as a team has eliminated all of its targets, it wins the game.
Game mode – Shooting
Special rules: this game mode is identical to racing where the rules and the arrangement are concerned. But this time, 
instead of going through the gates, the players must shoot them.
● In that mode, the gates cannot be crossed. Therefore, coming into contact with a gate will inflict damage. Besides, it is 
impossible to destroy a gate by colliding with it.
● When a player manages to shoot a gate, he/she takes a Target token that displays the same symbol as that on the gate 
and places it in front of him/her (except if he/she already has a token displaying that symbol).

Drones is a game mode for 2-6 players.
Aim of the game: shoot 4 drones.
Suggested amount of time for one turn: 1 minute for beginners and 30 seconds for experts.
Game mode – Drones
Special rules: this mode uses the turrets instead of the gates. The turrets are fixed so they behave like pods (they do 
not move and do not cause any damage if a player bumps into them). From time to time, the turrets send a drone (repre-
sented by a Target token displaying a symbol corresponding to that of the turret). These drones are two-tone (white/red) 
and must be shot by the players.
● During the first turn of the game, each turret sends out a drone. That drone will leave from the turret and will behave 
like an asteroid (two spaces when the red dice is activated and one space when the white dice is activated) using the 
numbers indicated by the turret.
● The drones have priority over the asteroids and so always move first. The drones can be pushed on by the blue aster-
oids and block the other asteroids.
● When a player manages to shoot a drone, he takes the Target token displaying the same symbol as that of the drone 
and places it in front of him/her (except if he already has a token displaying that symbol). If other players manage to shoot 
the same drone during that same round, they also get a token. So, several players can shoot the same drone during the 
one round and it does not matter who shot first.
● When a drone is shot during the course of a round, it is removed and the turret sends off another drone in the next 
round.
● As soon as one player has successfully shot four drones displaying different symbols, the game is over. The round still 
goes on to establish whether any other players also manage that feat. In case of a draw, the
player whose craft has incurred the least amount of damage wins the game.
Turret
Pilots
Hector Memeiev: Human from the Smirovskaia colony. A rough and ready pilot devoid of any finesse, Memeiev 
has managed to forge himself somewhat of a reputation on the circuit thanks to his brutal victories. He proved 
himself in the Grand Prix de l’Art du Triomphe by eliminating two candidates by way of barely legal manoeuvres 
(and not many of them are illegal in this kind of racing!).
Memeiev is an ex-miner of the Balkan Belt asteroid fields. His colleagues – no angels either – deemed him par-
ticularly greedy, reckless and ignorant of the most basic rules. Until the day when, chased whilst carrying stolen 
minerals, he successfully lost the Investigators of the Stellar Safety Services in an asteroid field. He had to change 
careers. Garamund Belisaire, rally organiser and a witness to Memeiev’s escape asked him if he wanted to be-
come a racing driver.
Hector flies a Carrier model Domotenia-Junker, a basic but solid craft.
“In a race against death, there’s only one rule: after kick-off, there ain’t no more rules!” Hector
Memeiev.

Yayenek: This Lambusquin from Parethon, in the Shimmering Belt, he covered himself in glory in many famous 
competitions, such as the 89th Rings Regatta (second overall, twice the winner of a stage).
A good pilot and an excellent navigator, he has a “tough guy” reputation. He loves the chase and is keen on un-
derhand tricks. Former and eminent pilot of the 9th Tellbarite squadron, he distinguished himself during the War of 
the Thousand Flowers. Although he was decorated four times for his bravery, he let himself down by being insub-
ordinate and violent to his superiors. He absconded before his trial and fled to the Purple Cluster where he joined 
the semi-professional circuit. There, he excelled. Soon noticed, he quickly became a permanent fixture in the most 
dangerous races. He flies a customised Haersench 400 modified with 4 additional back-side coupling engines. 
“This race could never be as tough as the assault on Deersheemaa, with the hellish blaze of the laser battles, the 
self-guided missile firing platforms and the mine fields”. Yayenek.
Mastress Dolorosa Guell: Native from the human colony of El Kukarasha. She is a fan of the more refined 
races, even if she does not snub direct confrontations. She has won the humble but prestigious Criterium Race 
of Aliveykena seventeen times in a row, and this is a record.
Mastress of the Cybernitian Pilots Union, Dolorosa Guell is direct, forceful and stubborn. She imposed herself in 
her role as a pilot thanks to her proficiency and tenacity. Like all Cybernitians, she is equipped with cybernetic 
modifications: visual headset for trajectory calculation (designed by Georgi LeFevre), omnidirectional scanner 
for assisted flying; dermal sensitive mesh for remote control of onboard instruments; hormonal regulation pump. 
Through her neural interface, she controls a Koroyev A440 with cockpit interior fitting.
“This race can be used to raise awareness for the causes our union fights for. The suppression of the pilots 
rights must end. Independent entrepreneurs must grant us fair pay that reflects the risks we take.” Mastress 
Dolorosa Guell.
M’Handa M’Hand: He originates from the Lost World. M’Hand holds the speed record of the Champions Event: 
1216 K’meyt/Hr. He won a stage of the 89th Rings Regatta (5th overall). He was also first or runner-up in a 
dozen lesser circuits. He is a “mystical pilot”, preferring the racing to the winning, although he does enjoy the 
cash prize…
For the Bullabullacub of the Lost World, racing is a religion. And M’Hand is one of the high priests:
a M’Handa. His name is actually derived from his position as a priest, further confirmation of his religious com-
mitment. For M’Hand, racing is the only way of communion with his god, a truly sacred act. Consequently, his 
opponents are sacrilegious creatures placed on his path to test his faith.
He is at one with his god at the controls of a Bleykt-Dacosta M512 which, naturally, is blessed before each race.
“The Great Guik’Lalakalan will know how to guide my trajectory. And if he so wished to ignore me, I always have 
my super-injected lateral turbines...” M’Handa M’Hand.
Lawrence “Bulldog Pussah” Finch: This human from the Old Earth was born near London, in the Kingdom of 
England, Western Europasia. Despite his weight (hence the second part of his nickname), Finch is an expert pilot. 
He is cunning, intuitive and particularly tenacious (hence the first part of his nickname). He won a fistful of Great 
Prizes in the Independent Systems.
Finch was not meant to become a racing pilot. Indeed, he was the heir of the Finch Colours Cosmetic Industry. 
But after various scandals, his family went bankrupt and Finch found himself penniless at 18. That’s when he fled 
to the Old Earth and got deep into the external Systems. He came back 10 years later, addicted to Matuhata and 
racing. He soon became the best pilot. If he can, he flies a specially reinforced GZK 3520.
“For money, what else? Glory? Pff! That ain’t gonna buy me Matuhata!” Lawrence Finch.
1634 Nemod Centre: He originates from the Kyssiz Bêta Oridani Centre beehive in the Hazel nebula. 1634 
Nemod is a rising champion. His striking success make him the most envied pilot of all. The elegance of his 
manoeuvres, his innate gift for flying and his remarkable trajectories make him a fearsome adversary. He proved 
this by winning, as an outsider, the Timeless Ring Race where he skilfully eliminated every last one of his op-
ponents in a record time.
The Ky’Podilys from Kyssiz Bêta Oridani are insectoid beings organised in large beehives. Each individual is 
specialised in a particular task: queen, spawner, fighter, worker… or pilot. Our friendly competitor is the 1634th 
egg from the Nemod queen, in the Centre beehive of his native world. He is one of the few pilots of his species 
to have been permitted to fly anything outside of a transportation craft or one of his people’s fighter craft. The 
queens of Kyssiz Bêta Oridani see in him a great publicity opportunity for their enterprise, as well as a comfort-
able way of getting richer.
1634 flies a bioracer, a unique model especially developed by the Ky’Podilys engineers.
“I be honourrred to parrrtake competition forrr grrreat glorrry of beehive.” 1634 Nemod Centre.