China, 2000 years ago: Loyang (Luòyáng / 洛阳) has risen to become the Capital of the Han Dynasty and one of the four great Capitals of 
old China. The economic upturn of the now-flourishing city requires a better supply of basic foodstuffs. These are provided by the local farmers, 
who plant wheat, pumpkins, turnips, cabbages, beans and leeks in their fields.
After each harvest, the farmers assemble at the gates of Loyang to sell and trade their vegetables. They deliver to their regular customers or 
lucratively sell their vegetables to passing shoppers. Vegetables can also be traded at Market stalls or used for seed and planted in fields. 
If the farmers need vegetables that they don’t have in stock, they can buy them in the Shop. Twenty different helpers, each with different 
individual skills, are available to assist them.
The most successful farmer will be the one who moves furthest along the Path of Prosperity within the given timeframe. 
Each step costs more and more money, which is also needed for investments. Farmers have to find the right balance.
The coins have square holes, so that they can be held on strings. They have the Chinese name “Cash”, 
which is the derivative of the modern term. (see footnote).
Game components
	 1 Rule booklet
On counter sheets:
	 4 T-shaped game boards (with Path of Prosperity and Shop)
	 12 Satisfaction markers (blue/red)
	 24 1-Cash coins (small)
	 14 5-Cash coins (large)
237 wooden tokens:
	 Vegetables:
	
 48 Wheat (yellow)
	
 46 Pumpkins (orange)
	
 44 Turnips (red)
	
 36 Cabbages (white) 
	
 32 Beans (light green)
	
 25 Leeks (dark green)
	 4 Scoring markers (to show progress on the Path of Prosperity)
	 2 Starting player tokens (1 larger, 1 smaller)
120 Cards: 
	 4 “Storehouse / Cart” cards
	 4 “Turn Summary” cards 	
 
	 6 “Loan” cards (Reverse: Income modifiers for Casual customers, see “Tips” on page 8)
 36 Private fields (green backs):
 4 Home field cards 
 (9 spaces)
 with 3 spaces each
 with 4 spaces each
 with 5 spaces each
 with 6 spaces each
	 70 action cards (brown backs): 
	 6 common fields 
 (2 each with 3/4/5 spaces)
 14 Market stalls (orange)
 14 Regular customers (blue)
 14 Casual customers (red)
 22 Helpers (beige)
Footnote: 
The expression “Cash” is derived from the Sanskrit “karsha” (small coin with a particular weight) and the Tamil word “kasu” (small piece of money). 
Cash coins were used for almost 3,000 years, and were only replaced by the Yuan at the end of the 19th century.
Tr der
Trade in 1 vegetable at another 
player’s Market sta l 
 
f you do this in Round 8 
 
n Round 9 2 

PLAYERS
Game Setup
Separate the money, the vegetables, the Satisfaction markers and the Loan cards and 
place them on the table as the Supply.
There should be an adequate supply of all components. 
Should there, unexpectedly, not be enough, players should improvise additional tokens.
Special rules for the Introductory version:
Shuffle the 4 Regular customers that are marked with a blue dot in the space for the Satisfaction marker. Deal one, 
face-down, to each player. Players look at the cards and can hold them in their hand until they decide to play them 
during a Card phase. In a 2- or 3-player game, any remaining Regular customers are returned to the Action card deck.
Shuffle the Action cards and place them in a face-down pile.
Each player receives the following items, which are laid 
out as shown in the illustration:
	 1 T-shaped game board
	 10 Cash
	 1 Home field
	 1 Scoring token (place it at 
the bottom of the Path of Prosperity) 
	 1 “Storehouse / Cart” card
(with the side shown facing up)
	 1 “Turn Summary” card
	 Vegetables to stock the Shop: 
3 wheat, 2 pumpkins, 2 turnips, 
2 cabbages, 1 bean and 1 leek. 
(The two pale-coloured spaces in the Shop remain empty. 
	
As a general rule: dark price tags show the cost that must be 
	
paid to buy the vegetable; pale price tags show the price a 
	
player can receive for selling it to the Shop.) 
	 8 Private fields (with green backs): 
	
2 sets, each of 4 cards with 3, 4, 5 and 6 spaces. 
	
Shuffle each set of 4 cards then place one set on 
	
top of the other, face-down and to the left of the 
	
Home field. This forms the Field pile.
Choose a Starting player, who takes the larger Starting player token. 
(The smaller Starting player token is not used at the start of the game.) 
Beginning with the Starting player and continuing in clockwise order, 
each player buys 1 vegetable from his own shop and plants it in his Home field. 
(Price: see the dark price tags between the vegetables in the Shop). 
“To plant” means to place the vegetable on a Field card. All other spaces on that 
field are then filled with the same vegetable. The additional tokens are taken from the Supply.
There are two restrictions here: 
	 Only the vegetables that are shown on the Home field card can be 
bought and planted (that is, only wheat, pumpkins or turnips) 
	 No more than 2 players may plant the same type of vegetable 
at the start of the game. 
Ha vest phase
 Ha vest 1 veget ble f om ea h fi ld 
and place t in your c rt
 Turn over 1 Pr vate fie d
Ca d hase
 A ter the D str but on ound play 2 ards
 Fi l new Ma ket sta ls w th vegeta les
 To finance fie ds v getables 
can be sold n he Sh p 
and H lpe s an be u ed
 At the e d Redis ribute the Start ng 
play r tokens
Turn Summary
A
 ph
 Sow v getables as seed
 Buy egeta les f om the Shop
 Sell vegeta les to the Shop
 Use r disca d Helpe s
 Del ver to Regular cus ome s 
( f requ red turn the Sat sfa tion 
ma ker or take a 2 
 pen lty) 
 +2 
 Buy 1 Two pack
 At he nd Store egetables 
and mo e Sc ri g marker
A 
 
 Take a loan of 5 
 
Path of Prosperity
Shop
Storehouse / Cart
Turn Summary card
Scoring marker
In the example, Ralph has chosen Wheat 
as his starting vegetable. He has 7 Cash 
remaining.
-2-
Home field
4+4 Private fields
Introductory version for your first game
For the first game, we offer an “Introductory version”. This incorporates two small changes, which are included in the rules in red boxes. 
These changes make it easier to start playing the game, but otherwise have no real influence on its play.
Special rules for different numbers of players:
These game rules apply to any number of players, with the following exceptions: 
	 With 2 players, there is a difference in the play of the Card phase (see page 4).
	 With 4 players, two players will take their actions simultaneously (see page 4). 
	 Additional rules for the Solo game are in a separate section on page 9.
Tips in blue boxes are not necessary when you first read the rules. They cover special cases and answers to rules questions.

Playing the game
The game is played over 9 Rounds. Each Round consists of 3 Phases:
1.	 Harvest phase (players receive one new field and harvest vegetables from their fields)
2.	 Card phase (players each play 2 Action cards, then a new Starting player is chosen)
3.	 Action phase (players buy and sell vegetables, then progress on the Path of Prosperity).
During the Card phase, players receive new cards. They use these in the Action phase 
to convert the harvested vegetables to money.
Players can take out loans at any time during the game.
At any time during the game, players can see how many rounds are left by counting the 
remaining vegetables on their Home field.
Phase 1: Harvest phase
All players carry out the Harvest phase simultaneously.
	 Each player turns over the top field from his Field pile and places it to the right 
of his other fields. In the last round, there is no new field to uncover.
 Each player harvests exactly 1 vegetable from each of his fields. He places the harvested 
vegetable(s) and any vegetables that were left in his Storehouse from previous turns on (or beside) 
his Cart. (Unlike the Storehouse, there is no limit on how many vegetables a Cart can hold.) 
 Once the last vegetable has been removed from a Private field, it is removed from the 
game. In contrast, fully harvested Common fields from the Action card deck are placed on the Action 
card discard pile (“The Discard pile”). (Common fields from the Action card deck can be recognised by 
the Cost symbol at the top left). Fields that have not yet been sown are not discarded. 
Phase 2: Card phase
	 At the start of the Card phase (and only then), create a new Draw pile by shuffling 
the Discard pile into the remaining Draw pile. 
	 Deal each player a hand of 4 Action cards. 
	 Next comes the Distribution round. Each player will play 2 Action cards face-up 
into his own playing area.
Note: A card, once played, cannot be discarded until it has been used. 
Helper cards ONLY can be discarded at any time.
If this is the first time you are reading these rules, you can skip the section on the Distribution round. 
Exactly how players acquire their 2 Action cards is not important for understanding the flow of the game.
Distribution round
During the Distribution round, each player plays exactly 1 card from his hand and 
exactly 1 card from the common “Courtyard”:
	 The player with the larger Starting player token places one card from his hand 
face up in the centre of the table, opening the “Courtyard”. 
Players then take turns in clockwise order. On his turn, a player must choose one of the 
following two options. Passing is never allowed. 
	 The player places 1 card from his hand into the Courtyard; or
	 The player takes exactly 1 card from the Courtyard and exactly 1 card from his hand. 
	
He plays both cards by placing them face-up in the appropriate part of his own play area. 
	
Any remaining cards from his hand are placed face-up in the Courtyard, and the player 
	
takes no further part in the Distribution round.
Note: The last player left to choose in a given round may no longer place any cards 
into the Courtyard, but must immediately choose from the available cards. 
Special rules for the Introductory version
When playing the two cards, a player may play the Regular customer that was dealt to him at the 
start of the game instead of a card from his hand. There is no restriction on the number of 
rounds for which a player may hold this Regular customer. (As well as this Regular customer, the 
player also chooses a card from the Courtyard. He may not play a card from his hand. Once he 
has played, all the remaining cards in his hand are placed in the Courtyard.)
In this example, there 
are still 5 full rounds to 
be played.
The cards are placed in the appropriate place 
in the player’s “played” area. Each type of 
card has its own position here: the Market 
stalls and Helpers are placed to the left, 
the Regular and Casual customers 
to the right, and the Fields 
 at the top. 
-3-

Harvest phase
 Harvest 1 vegetable from each field 
and place it in your cart
 Turn over 1 Private field
Card phase
 After the Distribution round, play 2 cards
 Fill new Market stalls with vegetables
 To finance fields, vegetables 
can be sold in the Shop 
and Helpers can be used
 At the end: Redistribute the Starting 
player tokens
Turn Summary
Action phase
 Sow vegetables as seed
 Buy vegetables from the Shop
 Sell vegetables to the Shop
 Use or discard Helpers
 Deliver to Regular customers 
(if required, turn the Satisfaction 
marker or take a 2 
 penalty) 
: -2 
: +2 
 Buy 1 Two-pack
 At the end: Store vegetables 
and move Scoring marker
At any time: Take a loan of 5 
 
4 PLAYERS
2 PLAyERS
-4-
Special rules for 2 players:
During the Distribution round, at the start of his turn, a player may choose to turn over the top Action card 
from the Draw pile and place it in the Courtyard. (This is also allowed when only one player is left and he 
must immediately choose from the available cards. This special rule gives players a wider choice of cards. The 
rule also allows the Starting player to immediately make a selection, even before his opponent has had a turn.)
Important: 
	 Whenever a Regular customer is played, immediately place a Satisfaction marker (with its blue side up) 
on the marked area on the right hand side of the card.
	 Whenever a Market stall is played, immediately fill it with the vegetables shown. 
	 Whenever a player plays a “Field” Action card, he must immediately pay 2 Cash for it. To make the 
payment, the player may (even out of turn) sell vegetables to his Shop, use Helpers, or take out a Loan. 
(Private fields are free, but there is a charge for Common fields).
Notes and Special Cases: 
	 A player may never choose to play 2 cards from the Courtyard or 2 cards from 
	
his hand; he must always play 1 card from the Courtyard and 1 from his hand.
	 If the active player has only 1 card remaining in his hand, he must immediately 
	
play it and choose 1 card from the Courtyard. A player’s last card may never 
be placed in the Courtyard; it must be played from his hand.
	 There is no limit to the number of cards that may be placed in any row 
of a player’s play area. 
At the end of the Distribution round, the remaining cards in the Courtyard form a new face-up 
Discard pile. They will be shuffled into the Draw pile at the start of the next Card phase. 
End of the card phase
Choose a new starting player
The last player to play two Action cards during the Card phase receives the large Starting player token 
and becomes the Starting player. The second last player to play two cards receives the smaller Starting player 
token and becomes the Second player.
 
Phase 3: Action phase
A player may take actions in any order during his turn.
The Turn Summary card gives an overview of all actions.
A player may take any action, with the exception of Action H, “Buy a Two-pack”, 
as many times as he wishes during a round. 
A player who takes an action more than once may also take other actions in between. 
At the end of their turns, players must store their vegetables and may move their Scoring marker.
The Starting player begins, then the Second player.
In a three-player game, the player with no Starting player token is third to play.
Special rules for the Four-player game 
In each round, the Starting player chooses one of the two non-Starting players as his partner for the Action 
phase. The other non-Starting player is paired with the Second player. The Starting and Second players take 
their Action phase at the same time. Once they have finished, their partners can have their turns.
Note: Whenever a player takes an action that refers explicitly to “the other players”, only the player’s current 
partner may be affected. Cards which allow this type of action can be recognised by a Chinese lantern symbol.
cards
bles
ng 
Action phase
 Sow vegetables as seed
 Buy vegetables from the Shop
 Sell vegetables to the Shop
 Use or discard Helpers
 Deliver to Regular customers 
(if required, turn the Satisfaction 
marker or take a 2 
 penalty) 
: -2 
: +2 
 Buy 1 Two-pack
 At the end: Store vegetables 
and move Scoring marker
Take a loan of 5 
 
1st
2nd
3rd
骗
子
Con man
Exchange this Helper for a Helper 
belonging to another player who has 
already completed his Action phase 
for this round. 
(The Con man goes to that player.) 
Solo game: 
Swap this Helper for 
a Helper from the Offer 

A Bean field is sown. 4 beans are placed 
on the Bean field, which will be harvested 
each round until it is empty.
Wheat costs 3 Cash, 
Pumpkins cost 4 Cash, 
Turnips and Cabbages 
cost 5 Cash each. Beans 
and Leeks cost 6 Cash 
each.
At this Market stall, a player can 
trade any 1 vegetable for 1 Pumpkin 
or 1 Cabbage, and any 2 vegetables 
for 1 Leek.
皮
条
Exchange one of your Casual 
customers 
 for a Casual customer 
belonging to another player. 
(Revealed Cards are placed 
in your “played” area.) 
OR 
Buy a Casual customer 
 from 
another player for 2 
 You must 
mmed ately serve this u tomer. 
TouT
Trade in 
 
 
playe
 
 
 
 
If yo 
 
 
 
you mu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trad 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
y 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trade n 1 vegetable at another 
players Market sta l 
 
If you do this in Round 8 
 
in Round 9 2 
-5-
The individual actions
A - Sow Vegetables as Seed
The player takes 1 vegetable from his Cart and places it on an empty field.
The remaining spaces on the field are filled with vegetables of the same type, which are taken from the Supply. 
The top border of each field shows which vegetables can be planted on it. The more spaces on a field, the fewer 
types of vegetable can be planted.
B - Buy Vegetables in the Shop
The player buys 1 vegetable from his own Shop and places it in his Cart.
A player can only buy vegetables that are available in his Shop. 
The purchase price is shown in the Shop, on the darker price tag beside the vegetable. 
C - Sell Vegetables to the Shop
The player takes 1 vegetable from his Cart and sells it to his own Shop.
Each place in the Shop is reserved for a specific type of vegetable. A player can only sell vegetables if he has 
appropriate free space(s) in his Shop. The selling price is shown in the Shop: use the lighter-coloured price tag. 
(Players receive 1 Cash for selling Wheat, Pumpkins, Turnips and Cabbages, and 2 Cash for selling Beans 
and Leeks.)
Note: This action can be taken at any time during the game. This includes during the Card phase or 
during Action H (Buy a Two-pack), in order to finance purchase of a new Field.
D - Trade Vegetables at a Market stall
The player trades 1 or 2 vegetables of his choice from his Cart for 1 vegetable 
from a Market stall.
The number of bowls on the Market stall shows how many vegetables must be traded for the one that is on 
offer. These are returned to the Supply. The player then moves the vegetable from the Market stall to his Cart. 
If a Market stall is empty after an exchange, it is immediately placed on the Discard pile.
	 When a player plays or reveals (see Action H) a Market stall, immediately fill it (from the Supply) 
with the vegetables shown on the card. Fill the Market stall immediately, even if another player 
has caused it to be revealed.
	 Players may trade in a vegetable for the same type of vegetable (e.g. Wheat for Wheat).
	 A vegetable which has been acquired from a Market stall may immediately be traded for another.
	 Once a Market stall has been played, it cannot be discarded until it has been completely emptied.
E - Play or discard a Helper
A player can use a Helper’s skills or discard the Helper without using it. 
Most Helpers are played during the Action phase, but some can also be played in other phases of the 
game: the phase is indicated in the text on the cards. (see the Helper Reference sheet on pages 10 and 11). 
As soon as a Helper is used, place it on the Discard pile. Helper cards are the only kind of card 
that can be discarded at any time without being used.
	 There are 20 different Helpers. Each Helper appears on one card, 
with the exception of the Trader, who appears on three.
 
	Some Helpers (marked with a purple lantern) refer to “other players”. 
These allow players to affect other players’ playing areas. 
	 If a player removes the top card of another player’s Two-pack, the lower card is immediately 
moved to the appropriate place. (Neither player can stop the lower card from being revealed.)
	
Remember: In a 4-player game, all Actions that refer to “another player” only refer 
to the active player’s partner for that Action phase.
	 Some Helper cards offer a choice of two Actions (“or”). 
A player can only ever use one of the two options when using that Helper.
	 There are no Helpers that can affect another player’s Home field, Cart or Storehouse. 
Vegetables in these areas are always safe from other players’ actions. 

F - Deliver to a Regular Customer
A player can deliver vegetables to his Regular customers in any order.
Each Regular customer card contains eight empty spaces; the two vegetables shown will be delivered here for 
four rounds. Regular customers want to receive these two vegetables exactly once in each round, starting with 
the round in which the card was played. When a player plays a Regular customer, place a Satisfaction marker 
with the blue side facing up on the marker space at the top right of the card. If a player cannot or does not wish 
to deliver to a Regular customer in a particular Round, he turns the Satisfaction marker to the red side.
If the player does not deliver to a Regular customer when the red side is already facing up, he must pay a 
penalty of 2 Cash to the Supply. 
	 Fill the Regular customer card from the bottom to the top. 
The arrows between the prices are a reminder of this.
	 When a player makes a delivery to a Regular customer, 
he receives the payment for the delivery immediately. 
	 Players may not partially fill a row (that is, only supply 1 vegetable). 
	 A Regular customer’s first delivery is due in the Round when it is played.
	 If a player’s Regular customer is revealed during another player’s action (see Action H), 
	
it only requires delivery in that round if the player has not taken his turn yet.
	 To raise money to pay the penalty of 2 Cash, a player can sell vegetables from 
his Cart to the empty spaces in his Shop, place Helpers or take out a Loan.
 
 Immediately after the fourth (top) line of a Regular customer is filled, 
	
the card must be emptied and discarded. 
	 Once a Regular customer card has been played, it cannot be discarded 
until the Regular customer has received 4 Deliveries.
Detailed example: Nina places the Regular customer who pays 5/6/7/8 Cash for Turnips and Cabbages in 
front of herself. She places a blue Satisfaction marker on the card. During this Action phase, she must deliver to 
the Regular customer: she delivers 1 turnip and 1 cabbage as required and receives 5 Cash. In the next round, 
she does not deliver the two vegetables, and she turns the Satisfaction marker to the red side. In the following 
round, she delivers again and receives 6 Cash. The Satisfaction marker stays red. (Only the “Saleswoman” 
Helper can turn a Satisfaction marker from red to blue again –see page 11.)
After this, Nina misses another delivery and must pay the penalty of 2 Cash. In the next 2 rounds, she delivers 
again, receiving first 7 and then 8 Cash. She then discards the Regular customer, including the 8 vegetables 
and the Satisfaction marker. Until it is discarded, she must either deliver to the Regular customer or 
pay the penalty.
G - Deliver to a Casual Customer
A player can deliver vegetables to his Casual customers in any order.
The player takes the 3 named vegetables from his Cart, returns them to the Supply, 
and receives the purchase price:
	 If he has the same number of Regular and Casual customers, he receives the price shown.
	 If he has more Casual than Regular customers, the price paid is reduced by 2 Cash.
	
This is a penalty for players who make it too easy for themselves and avoid responsibilities 
to Regular customers. 
	 If he has fewer Casual than Regular customers, he receives a bonus of 2 Cash.
	
This is a reward for players who manage to serve a Casual customer despite 
commitments to Regular customers. 
The order in which players serve Regular and Casual customers can influence these Modifiers.
	 Note! All three vegetables must all be supplied in one Action phase. 
	
They cannot be stored on the Casual customer between turns.
	 Casual customers are served one after another in any order. 
	
A player may not serve two Casual customers at the same time.
	 Unlike with Regular customers, 
	
there is no penalty for not serving a Casual customer.
	 Once a Casual customer card has been played, it cannot be 
discarded without first being served. 
-6-
If this player misses another Delivery, 
a 2 Cash penalty must be paid.
For the last Delivery, this player 
is paid 7 Cash.

-7-
H - Buy a Two-pack
Once during each Action phase, each player may buy a “Two-pack” of Action cards.
A Two-pack consists of two Action cards which are drawn from the Draw pile. Its cost is the greater 
of the number of either Helpers or Market stalls that the player has in his “played” area. 
Cards which are covered by another Action card do not add to the cost.
After making payment, the player draws 2 Action cards from the pile and places them face up in front of him, 
so that all other players can see them. He can choose to keep 0, 1 or 2 of these cards; any that he does not 
keep are discarded.
Note! If the player wants to keep both of the cards, he must place them one on top of the other. 
The top card is placed so that the top line of the card below is visible. The player chooses which card 
will go on top and which will go underneath.
Fields on Action cards always cost 2 Cash. This must be paid immediately, even if the field is placed 
beneath the other card of the Two-pack. (This is additional to the cost of the Two-pack.)
Notes and Special Cases:
	 A player with neither Market stalls nor Helpers can take a Two-pack for free. 
	 Even if the player chooses to keep neither card from a Two-pack, 
he cannot buy another Two-pack in the same Round. 
	 To finance a field that is part of a Two-pack, a player can sell goods to his Shop 
	
(see Action C, page 5), use a Helper or take out a Loan. 
The Two-pack as the game continues
Whenever a player places the upper card of a Two-pack onto the Discard pile, he must immediately 
(effectively, at the same time) move the lower card to the appropriate place. (Immediately fill revealed 
Market stalls with vegetables and place a Satisfaction marker on revealed Regular customers.)
Detailed Example: Claudia buys a Two-pack. The Two-pack contains 
1 Regular customer and 1 Market stall. Claudia chooses to keep both cards. 
She places the Regular customer beneath the Market stall. Some rounds later, she 
uses her Market stall for the third time and discards it. The Regular customer is 
immediately placed with her other Regular customers, and is given a blue 
Satisfaction marker. It must be served during that same Round. If Claudia cannot 
do this (see Action F, Page 6), she must turn the Satisfaction marker to its red side.
End of the Action phase
Store Vegetables
At the end of each turn, players move leftover vegetables from their Cart to their Storehouse. A player can only 
hold as many vegetables as are shown on his Storehouse: any additional vegetables must be sold to his Shop or 
discarded (returned to the Supply). 
A Storehouse with a capacity of only 1 vegetable can be upgraded for a cost of 2 Cash. (Turn the card over 
to show the “upgraded” side). From now until the end of the game, it can hold up to 4 vegetables.
Move Scoring Marker
Players pay Cash to progress along the Path of Prosperity.
In each round, the first step along the Path of Prosperity costs 1 Cash. For each 
additional space that a player wishes to move along the Path, he must pay the 
value shown on the space he moves to. 
Loans
Players may take Loans at any time during the game. A Loan provides 5 Cash and 1 Loan card.
At the end of the game, players’ Scoring markers are moved backwards 1 space along the Path of Prosperity 
for each Loan that they have taken out. Loans can never be repaid.
The number of Loans a player may take is not limited. If there are not enough “Loan” cards, 
players must improvise. We recommend that first-time players be cautious about taking out Loans: 
it is rare for a player to take more than one Loan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Squire
骗
子
Con man
Exchange th s Helper for a Helper 
belonging to another player who has 
already completed his Action phase 
for this round 
(The Con man goes to that player) 
Solo game 
Swap this Helper for 
a Helper from the Offer 
Trade in 1 vegetable at another 
player’s Market stal 
 
If you do this in Round 8 
 
in Round 9 2 
Costs: 2 Cash 
(the covered 
Helper is not 
counted)
Example: Nell is on Space 15. For 1 Cash, she 
can move to 16, for 35 more (17+18=35), 
she can move 2 additional spaces to 18.

-8-
End of the Game
The Game ends after 9 Rounds – that is, at the end of the Round 
in which players finish harvesting their Home field. 
Players who have taken Loans must now move their Scoring marker back 
1 space along the Path of Prosperity for each Loan card that they have. 
The winner is the player whose Scoring marker has progressed furthest along 
the Path of Prosperity.
Tiebreaker: If more than one player is in the same position, 
the winner is the one who has the most Cash remaining.
Second Tiebreaker: If the tied players also have the same amount of Cash, 
the number of vegetables remaining in the players’ fields and Storehouses is the decider: 
the player with the most vegetables is the winner.
If there is still a tie after the second tiebreaker, the tied players are equal and share the win.
	 Even if a player has enough Cash remaining to reach the next step on the Path of Prosperity, 
	
this is not allowed. (This can happen, for example, if another player has used a Trader and has 
	
given the player Cash.) 
	 There is no penalty for having Regular and Casual customers at the end of the game.
	 The number of vegetables in the Shop is also irrelevant.
Frequently Asked Questions
What happens if the pile of Action cards is completely emptied during the Card phase?
The remaining cards are distributed evenly to the players, so that each player receives 
the same number of cards.
What happens if the pile of Action cards is completely emptied during the Action phase? 
The Discard pile is immediately shuffled and becomes a new Draw pile.
Can I play the two cards I received during the Card phase on top of one another, as a Two-pack? 
No, the two cards that are received during the Card phase must be played separately.
Can I trade vegetables at the Market stall during the Card phase, so that I can sell a more expensive vegetable 
to earn money to pay for a field?
No, Market stall actions are only allowed during the Action phase.
Tips
Sometimes, it can be hard to see which Regular customers have received deliveries during 
the current Action phase. At the start of an Action phase, move the Satisfaction markers 
to the row on the card where the delivery is to be made. As soon as the Regular customer 
receives a delivery (or the penalty is paid), move the Satisfaction marker back to the top right 
hand side of the card. 
To speed up play, we recommend that the Active player says how much money he should receive and 
that another player pays it to him.
To ensure that you do not forget the +2/-2 modifier for Casual customers, use the reverse side 
of an unused Loan card. Turn the card so that it shows the correct modifier to the right, 
and place it sideways underneath a Casual customer. If the count of Regular and Casual customers 
changes, return or rotate the card.
Whenever you take a Loan 
you immediately receive 5 
The Loan can never be repaid
Instead after the last Round 
your Scoring marker is moved back 1 space
Loan
The Satisfaction marker shows 
that the Regular customer has 
not yet received a delivery.

Solo game
The Solo game takes around 1 hour.
It works exactly the same as the game for 2 to 4 players, with the following additions:
Preparation: 
	 Shuffle the Action cards. For an imaginary opponent, turn over cards until there are exactly 2 Market 
stalls, 2 Regular customers and 2 Casual customers. Fill the Market stalls with the required vegetables.
	
These cards give the Market woman, Trader, Deliveryman and Tout an opportunity for interaction. 
Any additional cards that are turned over are placed in the Discard pile.
 
 Before the Solo player sows his Home field, 12 Action cards are turned over, and placed 
in a grid of 4 rows and 3 columns. Cards will be bought from this grid during the Card phase.
Card phase: 
	 The player may buy up to 2 cards from the grid 
	 Cards in the top row are free, cards in the second row cost 1 Cash each, 
cards in the third and fourth (bottom) row cost 2 Cash each.
	 After choosing, the remaining cards from the second row are placed in the Discard pile. 
The cards in the top row remain as they are. The remaining cards are moved upwards, 
with empty spaces filled from below and then from the Draw pile to complete the 4x3 grid. 
	 The Discard pile is only shuffled into the Draw pile once during the game: 
when the first empty field is discarded during the Harvest phase. (It is irrelevant whether 
it is a Private or a Common field.)
Your Goal: 
“Good” players reach level 17, “Very good” players reach level 18 and “Masters” reach level 19 
on the Path of Prosperity. 
Appendix 1: Card overview
Market stalls
Casual customers
Pays
Regular customers
Pays
S= Start card in the Introductory Version
-9-
Market stalls
Regular Customers
Casual Customers
女
Marke woMan
Exchang 
 
 
Market sta l 
 
 
player’s Ma
 
 
 
refill bo 
 
(Cards under th 
 
 
 
are revealed durin 
 
 
 
 
to the approp
 
 
Trade in 1 ve
 
 
player’s M
 
 
 
f you do t
 
 
you must pa 
 
 
 
n Rou 
供
货
Deliver man
Deliver t 
 
 
Regular 
 
 
 
take the 
 
 
If you ma 
 
 
 
to t
 
 
you mu 
 
 
 
 fr
 
 
皮
条
Exchange one of your Casual 
customers 
 for a Casual customer 
belonging to another player 
(Revealed Ca ds are placed 
in your “played” area ) 
OR 
Buy a Casual customer 
 from 
another player for 2 
 You must 
immediately serve this customer 
Tou

Helper Reference
This section lists all 20 Helpers in detail. You do not need to read this section before your first game, as all the Helper cards are self-explanatory. 
This section can be used to clarify any special cases and illustrates the variety of relationships between the Helpers.
The number in square brackets [] indicates whether the action is used during phase 1, 2 or 3 of a round. 
(Because the card texts explain when to use a Helper, these numbers are not on the cards but are only in this section.)
Some Helpers refer to “other players”. These Helper cards are marked with a purple lantern 
 . This symbol allows players to recognise 
which actions allow them to directly affect other players. 
Book-keeper: [2,3] Decide whether each vegetable space in your Shop 
should contain the indicated vegetable or not. (Add or remove vegetables as 
you choose.) In addition, choose one type of vegetable. For each Field card 
 on which this vegetable has been planted, you receive 1 
	 As well as during the Action phase, the Book-keeper can be used
during the Card phase, if he is needed to finance a new Field. 
Con man: [3 
] Exchange this Helper for a Helper belonging to another 
player who has already completed his Action phase for this round. (The Con 
man goes to that player.) Solo game: Swap this Helper for a Helper from 
the Offer.
	 Note: A player cannot use the Con man to take 
a Helper that is underneath another card. 
In this example, the Trader cannot be taken 
by the Con man. 
	 The Con man cannot be used by the Starting player.
	 Because the Con man is exchanged for another player’s 
card, it remains in the game until a player discards it 
without using it. 
Deliveryman: [3 
] Deliver to another player’s Regular customer and 
take the proceeds yourself. If you make the last delivery to that customer, 
you must pay the owner 2 
 from the proceeds.
	 The “owner” of the Regular customer must still deliver in that round, 
if he has not already and if he still has the Regular customer card. 
Foreman: [1,2,3 
] Take one Helper immediately after it is placed on the 
Discard pile (by you or by another player).
	 It is irrelevant whether the Helper was used or discarded. 
	 If the Foreman is under another Helper, he can be used immediately the 
other Helper is played. 
Example: The Maid, which is on the Foreman, is activated and discarded. This frees the 
Foreman, who immediately takes the Maid back. The Foreman is then moved to the 
Discard pile, as it has been used.
	 In the 4-player game, the Foreman can take the Harvest helper 
(during the Harvest phase) or the Squire, Market crier or Bookkeeper 
(during the Card phase) from any of the other players – there are no 
partners during these phases. 
	 The Foreman and the Squire can be combined: A player can use the 
Squire to select the Foreman, immediately use the Foreman and take 
back the Squire. 
	 If another player uses the Squire, a player with the Foreman can take 
the Squire card and use it in the same round (if he has not already 
taken two cards). 
	 If a player exchanges the Foreman for the Harvest helper during the 
Harvest phase, he can immediately use the Harvest helper. 
Players usually harvest at the same time. If a player has the Harvest 
helper, the player with the Foreman can require that the Harvest be 
played in player order: First the Starting player, then the other players 
follow in clockwise order.
	 A player who has the Foreman and the Harvest helper can play the 
Harvest helper two times, one after another, to harvest 3 vegetables 
from a field with at least 5 vegetable tokens or to add 2 additional 
vegetables to a field. 
Haggler: [3] Once only, buy 2 vegetables of the same kind in your Shop for 
the price of 1. (Combined with the Shopper, you take the 2 vegetables from 
the Supply rather than from the Shop.) 
	 The Haggler can only be used when there are two of the required 
vegetable in the player’s Shop. 
 Used with the Merchant, the price for the two vegetables is 1 Cash. 
Harvest Helper: [1] You can harvest 2 vegetables from each of your own 
fields 
 that contains 4 or more vegetables (Not from your Home field 
!),
 OR [3] Fields 
 that you plant in this Action phase receive 1 additional 
vegetable token. 
	 Option 1: The vegetables on a field are counted before harvesting. 
The fields must have at least 4 vegetable tokens on them: it is not 
enough for them to just have 4 spaces. A player who takes this option 
can choose, for each field, whether to use it or not. 
	 If a player exchanges the Foreman for the Harvest helper during 
the Harvest phase, he can immediately use the Harvest helper. 
Players usually harvest at the same time. If a player has the Harvest 
helper, the player with the Foreman can require that the Harvest be 
played in player order: First the Starting player, then the other players 
follow in clockwise order. 
	 A player who has the Foreman and the Harvest helper can play the 
Harvest helper two times, one after another, to harvest 3 vegetables 
from a field with at least 5 vegetable tokens or to add 2 additional 
vegetables to a field.
Maid: [3] In this Action phase, you may exchange vegetables 1:1 at all 
Market stall spaces where you would usually have to trade in 2 vegetables 
to receive 1. 
	 The Maid can be combined with the Trader: a player can trade 
a vegetable 1:1 at another player’s Market stall.
	 A player can activate this card for the current Action phase without 
using it immediately: he may take other actions before using the Maid. 
Example: John activates the Maid and moves her to the Discard pile. This reduces the 
price of a Two-pack, which he then buys. Only then does he trade in 1 vegetable at a 
2:1 Stall. 
Market crier: [3] Refill all your Market stalls with vegetables OR Sell 1 
to 3 vegetables from your Market stalls to your Shop (at Shop prices!). 
You can earn a maximum of 3 
	 The Market crier can never refill a completely empty Market stall, as 
Market stalls are discarded as soon as they are empty. 
	 If the Market crier chooses to refill Stalls, he must refill 
all of a player’s stalls. 
Example for Option 2: Gerald takes 1 Bean and 1 Leek from his Market stalls. 
He does not need to trade in vegetables from his Cart. He places both vegetables 
on the appropriate spaces in his Shop and receives 3 Cash (even though the 
Shop’s price would have been 4).
Market woman: [3 
] Exchange one of your Market stalls for another 
player’s Market stall and refill both of them. (Cards under the Market stalls 
that are revealed during the swap are moved to the appropriate “played” 
area.)
	 A player with no Market stall cannot use this card. 
	 A player cannot exchange an empty Market stall, as empty Stalls 
are immediately placed on the Discard pile.
	 In the last round, some players might choose to clear out their 
Market stalls to stop other players from using them with the Trader 
or the Market woman. 
-10-
E tausc 
 
 
e nes M
 
 
In Run 
 
 
M tsp el 
 
 
 
n Ru
 
 
 
hän ler

Shopper: [3] Buy 1 vegetable from the Supply (not from the Shop). 
The vegetable costs 2 
 less than it would in the Shop. 
	 Wheat costs 1 Cash, Pumpkins 2, Turnips and Cabbages 3, Beans and 
Leeks 4. 
	 The Shopper can be combined with the Haggler: you can buy 2 identical 
goods from the Supply for 2 less Cash.
	 The Shopper can be combined with the Merchant: The player receives, for 
0 Cash, up to 1 vegetable (that the Merchant could buy from the Shop 
for 1 Cash) from the Supply. 
Squire: [2] During the Card phase, instead of taking 1 card from your hand 
and 1 from the Courtyard, you can take 1 card from your hand and up to 3 
from the Courtyard. (If you take the Foreman card, you can immediately swap 
it for the Squire.) 
Solo game: You may acquire up to 4 cards from the Offer.
	 A player using the Squire must also play 1 card from his hand. 
	 The Squire cannot be used in the same round as it is played. Exception: 
If another player uses the Squire, a player with the Foreman can take the 
Squire card and use it in the same round (if he has not already taken two 
cards). 
	 The player plays all of the Action cards into his “played” area. As with all 
Action cards in the Card phase, they cannot be placed on one another 
like a Two-pack. 
Subsistence farmer: [3 
] Take 1 vegetable from a field 
 belonging 
to another player and pay the owner 1 
. The field must contain at least 
4 vegetable tokens and may not be the Home field 
. Solo game: For 1 
, 
buy 1 wheat, 1 pumpkin or 1 turnip from the Supply.
	 The Subsistence farmer can only be played during the Action phase. (This 
is important in the 4-player game where players take actions with a 
partner.) 
	 The player places the harvested vegetable in his own Cart. 
Tout: [3 
] Exchange one of your Casual customers for a Casual 
customer belonging to another player. (Revealed cards are placed in your 
“played” area.) OR [3 
] Buy a Casual customer from another 
player for 2 
. You must immediately serve this customer.
 “Serve” means “deliver the three goods to the customer.”
Example for Option 2: Jon has the Tout on top of a Regular customer. He buys a Casual 
customer, who must be served immediately, from Larry. Jon gives Larry 2 Cash from 
the proceeds. The Regular customer does not count towards the +2/-2 modifier in this 
instance, as it is only revealed when the Tout is moved to the Discard pile after it has 
been used.
Tenant-farmer: [3] Pay 3 
 to choose 1 field from your pile of Private fields 
 (without changing the order of the fields in the pile) OR Place one empty 
field 
 from your Field area (that has not yet been sown) under the pile of 
your Private fields and select 1 other field from it (without changing the order 
of the fields in the pile)
	 The new field is placed with the other fields. 
	 Option 1 reduces the size of a player’s Private field pile. Some players 
may have a Private field left to turn over in Round 8; others may not. 
	 Option 2 allows a Common field (on an Action card) to be placed under 
the pile of Private fields. The player does not have to pay 2 Cash for the 
Common field when it is turned over for the second time. 
	 A player may not simply use the Tenant-farmer to look at his Private 
fields pile. A player who uses this card must also take a field. 
Trader: [3 
] Trade in 1 vegetable at another player’s Market stall . If you 
do this in Round 8, you must pay that player 1 
; in Round 9, 2 
	 The Trader is the only Helper who appears more than once in the game. 
(There are 3.) 
	 With each Trader used, a player can obtain exactly 1 vegetable from 
another player’s Market stall by trading in 1 or 2 vegetables from his 
cart (as shown). 
	 The Trader can be combined with the Maid. 
	 In the last round, some players might choose to clear out their Market 
stalls to stop other players from using them with the Trader or 
the Market woman.
Merchant: [3] You may buy, for 1 
, 1 of any vegetable that you must 
deliver at least twice to your Regular customers in this round. (For 
example: You have Regular customers requiring wheat/wheat, pumpkin/
cabbage and pumpkin/leeks. You may buy 1 wheat and 1 pumpkin for 1 
 
each.)
	 The Merchant only counts by Regular customers, not Casual customers. 
	 Even if a player must deliver the same vegetable four times to his 
Regular customers, he can only buy at most 1 vegetable with the 
Merchant. 
	 Players can never buy vegetables that are not in their Shop. 
	 The Merchant can be combined with the Haggler: a player can buy 
2 identical goods for 1 Cash. 
	 The Merchant can be combined with the Shopper: the player receives, 
for 0 Cash, up to 1 vegetable (that the Merchant could buy from the 
Shop for 1 Cash) from the Supply.
Messenger-boy: [3] You can deliver twice to any or each of your Regular 
customers in this Action phase: Place two vegetables on each of the 
Regular customer’s two vegetable spaces 
 Players can choose which Regular customer they will deliver to twice. 
 Players are paid for each of the two deliveries. 
	 Even after a double delivery, the player must deliver to the Regular 
customer over four rounds. In this way, a Regular customer may receive 
five (or even more) deliveries. 
	 A player is allowed to deliver to a Regular 
customer, and then use the proceeds to buy 
a vegetable that is required for that customer’s 
second delivery. 
	 Players can also deliver twice to a Regular 
customer’s top (last) row. Both these deliveries 
must be made at the same time.
Official: [3] In this Action phase, the “Buy a Two-pack” action is free for you.
	 The Two-pack is already free for players with no Helpers or Market stalls.
Plough-man: [3] Return all vegetables from one of your fields 
 that 
contains at least 2 vegetables to the Supply. (You may not return vegetables 
from your Home field 
.) You can re-sow this field. OR You can immediately 
harvest vegetables from all fields 
 that contain exactly one vegetable token 
(but not your Home field 
.)
	 Option 1: The player is not compensated in Cash for the returned 
vegetables. The field is treated as though it had just been turned over 
from the player’s private Field pile. If the field is a Common field (Action 
card), the player does not pay the 2 Cash purchase price again. The 
player re-sows the field with a vegetable from his Cart. (The Plough-man 
can re-sow at most 1 field.) 
	 Option 2: Immediately after this Harvest, all emptied Private fields are 
removed from the game and all emptied Common fields (Action cards) 
are moved to the Discard pile.
Saleswoman: [3] Turn all your own Satisfaction markers to the blue side. 
OR During the current Action phase, your Casual customers pay a bonus 
of +2 
 on the base price for all deliveries (regardless of how many Regular 
customers you have). 
	 The player can activate Option 1 for the current Action phase without 
using it immediately: he may take other actions before using the 
Saleswoman. 
Example for Option 1: Fraser has 3 Regular customers, 2 with red Satisfaction 
markers and 1 with blue. First, he chooses not to serve the third customer and turns 
the Satisfaction marker to red. Then he uses the Saleswoman and turns all three 
Satisfaction markers to blue. He still needs to serve the first 2 Regular customers.
-11-

Credits
Author: U we Rosenberg 乌 玫瑰山
Editing: Ralph Bruhn und U we Rosenberg 
Illustration and Graphic design: K lemens Franz / atelier198
3D game pieces: Andreas Resch
English translation: Melissa Rogerson
English proofreaders: Fraser McHarg, Jon Power, John K ennard, Larry Levy, Gerald Cameron and Eberhardt Scheube.
The game “At the Gates of Loyang” was developed between January and April 2005. It is the immediate predecessor of the game “Agricola” 
which was published in 2007. It was inspired by the game “Antiquity”, from the Dutch publisher Splotter Spellen. The author got to know the 
“Loyang” theme through the book “Die Welt der alten Städte - Wie die Menschen damals lebten” (The world of the old cities - how 
people lived back then) (Herder Verlag, 1982) (now out of print). The editors thank Susanne Rosenberg, Andreas Buhlmann, Rolf Raupach, Andreas 
Odendahl (as the Solo game expert), Grzegorz Kobiela, Inga Blecher, Stefan Schmid and Julian Steindorfer for proof-reading the rules, Hao Wang for 
advice on Chinese characters, Melissa Rogerson for the translation and the many keen helpers who supported us on studivz. The author thanks the 
many Playtesters (in chronological order), without whom the game would not have appeared in this form: 
Philipp Bäcker, Christian Gentges, Susanne Rosenberg, Sascha Hendriks, Andreas Höhne, Hagen Dorgathen, Hanno Girke, Jasmin Latossek, 
Andreas Latossek, (10.) Brigitte Ditt, Wolfgang Ditt, Anja Pauli, Eva Pauli, Jens Schulze, Frederike Diehl, André Diehl, Nadine Sauerbier, 
Mark Buschhaus, Stefan Betermieux, (20.) Frank Beimfohr, Thorsten Janocha, Ulrike Don, Anja Grieger, Frank Grieger, Petra Doerinckel, 
Marion Wieners, Sabine Teller, Thomas Balcerek, Axel Krüger, (30.) Michael Hehenkamp, André Hergemöller, Volker Hesselmann, Alexander Finke, 
Miriam Bode, Nina Meinke, Martina Friese, Markus Friese, Cornelia Kreher, Andreas Kreher, (40.) Erwin Amann, Hartmut Boekhoff, 
Christian Hildenbrand, Klaus-Jürgen Wrede, Fritz Gruber, Henning Kröpke, Julia Griller, Barbara Kern, Gert Stocker, Hubert Scheu, (50.) Ulrike Krahn, 
Torsten Schwack, Mareike Oertwig, Anke Robert, Nicole Weinberger, Ingo Kasprzak, Philipp El Alaoui, Tim Eggert, Peter Eggert, Carsten Büttemeier, 
(60.) Marcus Krug, Julius Kündiger, Robert Oestreich, Peter Raschdorf, Rolf Raupach, André Kalies, Björn Kalies, Grzegorz Kobiela, Markus Tapper, 
Robert Kellner, (70.) Agnieszka Kobiela, Olaf Lück, Christian Berghammer, Dorle Burgdorf, Nadine Schlüter, Stephanie Wucherpfennig, 
Andrea Kattnig, Klemens Franz, Dagmar de Cassan, Monika Dillingerova, (80.) Maria Schranz, Harald Bilz, Lothar Hemme, Christoph Vavru, 
Michael Kapik, Gabriele Goldschmidt, Nils Miehe, Nicole Biedinger, Stephan Gehres, Barbara Winner, (90.) Ralph Bruhn, Markus Wawra, 
Erwin Kocsan, Suse Dahn, Ferdinand de Cassan, Julian Steindorfer, Karin Michels, Matthias Michels, Arne Hoffmann, Thilo B. Schneeweiß, 
(100.) Lasse Goldschmidt, Michael Rensen, Guido Loch, Nicole Ruthmann, Thorsten Ruthmann, Thomas Röttgers, Roland Müller, Sandra Kalker, 
Michael Behr, Andrea Magiera, (110.) Alfred Schneider, Angela Maschke, Horst Sawroch, Georg Rausch, Vera Schwingenheuer, Matthias Esken, 
Gesa Bruhn, Markus Grafen, Cedric Hodelganz, Stefan Wahoff, Sören Paukstadt, (120.) Henrik Nachtrodt, Gerda Leutermann, Bernd Breitenbach, 
Stephanie Mertens, Ralf Jäger, Ronny Vorbrodt, Katharina Woroniuk, Frank Hommes, Gisela Postler, Björn Postler, (130.) Birgit Baer, Jürgen Kudritzky, 
Monika Harke, Rainer Harke, Ann-Kathrin Drogi, André Stegers, Winfrid Pucher, Ansgar Ludwig, Tim Liese, Marcel Schwarz, (140.) Frank Pohl, 
Erwin Surmann, Michael Seidl, Nicole Schneider, Frank Strangfeld, Markus Prieß, Andrea Schermer gemeinsam mit Sabine Semmler, Udo Kalker, 
Maren Hübner, David Köpfer, (150.) Dominik Mechnig, Fabian Bressin, Jan-Hendrik Hacheney, Marvin Hehn, Sebastian Klein, Wolfgang Rupsch, 
Thomas Tschirbs, Nicole Reiske, Georg von der Brüggen, Anja Beck, (160.) Tobias Bamberger, Rainer Elsäßer, Mario Prochnow, Joachim Schneider, 
Stefan Mautes, Joachim Zajusch, Gertrud Hurck, Andreas Jacobi, Dirk Augenbraun, Dominik Riege, (170.) Christian Becker, Michael Kohl, 
Thomas Mechtersheimer, Mathias Cramer, Inga Blecher, Christoph Keutmann, Heike Brandes, Beate Friedrich, Kai Köhn, Jürgen Aden, 
(180.) Stefan Lowke, Markus Schepke, Ulrich Blennemann, Michael Bruinsma, Daniel Hagetoorn, Brigitte Usai, Claudio Usai, Bernadette Beckert, 
Andreas Buhlmann, Jan Ostmann, (190.) Thomas Schulze, Elke Duffner, Helga Duffner, Johannes Schulz-Thierbach, Bodo Drews, Jörg Schulte, 
Claus Jürgen Danker, Michael Braun, Andrea Urbarz, Yvonne Lüscher, (200.) Tanja Muck, Ihmo Kelsch, Peter Muck, Dirk Schröder, Thorsten Hanson, 
Nele Jung, Daniel Frieg, Fabian Sandelmann, Monika Voß, Diana Zey, (210.) Markus Kirsch, Volker Geilhausen, Bianca Schürmann, Thomas Rosanski, 
Tina Junior, Sven Junior, Andreas Odendahl, Simone Hüther, Volker Schäfer, Johanna Bresch, (220.) Ingrid Kranicz, Fokko Toelstede, 
Dorothee Haarmann, Klaus Haarmann, Bodo Merz, Volker Nattermann, Marcel Plum, Björn Reinartz, Eric Humrich, Sylvia Kistner, (230.) Ina Plate, 
Volker Sänger, Jessica Jordan, Timo Loist, Ralf Rechmann, Jochen Steininger, Andrea Krone, Sybille Bertram, Sven Bertram, Marcel Kaul, 
(240.) Torsten Winkelstäter, Frank Rudloff, Jennifer Ha, Sandra Lapp, Silke Hüsges, Roland Winner, Birger Haar, Melissa Rogerson Petra Böhm, 
Dieter Alber, (250.) Steve Kearon, Fraser McHarg, Neil Cook, John Kennard, Mel Thomas, Haydn Jones, Claudia McHarg..
© 2009 Hall Games
www.hallgames.de
Ralph Bruhn
Herderstr. 36
D-53332 Bornheim
Deutschland / Germany
You can download a walk-through of the game rules from our homepage www.hallgames.de - this gives an easy introduction to the 
game and acts as a guide for teaching it. For advanced players, the author has explained why he made certain rules the way they are.
-12-
洛
阳