Getting ready to play
The game board is fitted together and placed bet-
ween the two players.
Each player is given 29 counters in the colour of
their choice, the set of cards in the same colour and
a white “exchange” counter. 
The players shuffle their cards and place them face
down next to the board. The scoring counters are
placed as score indicators next to square “1” of the
scoring strip. 
Each player picks up the top 4 cards from their pile,
looks at them and then allocates 1 card face down
to each of their own cartouches.
Once during the game each player - by handing in their
“exchange” counter – may discard the 4 cards he has
picked up and take 4 new cards instead. The “exchange”
counter is removed from the game.
When both players have allocated their cards, these
are turned up and evaluated one after the other.
[See: 1st cartouche to 4th cartouche]
When all 8 cards have been evaluated, the uptur-
ned cards are discarded and each player takes 4
new cards. Another round follows.
When a pile of face-down cards has been used up,
the discarded cards are shuffled and laid ready as a
new face-down pile. 
The cartouches
1st cartouche – points:
The value of both players' cards is compared. The
player with the higher card value receives double the
difference in points. If the cards are of equal value,
no one receives points.
2nd cartouche – order of play / removal of
counters:
The cards laid here determine two things:
a) The order of play of both players for the rest of the
round.
- 2 -
For example: Peter plays a “1” here, Elke a
“4”, the difference is 3. Elke gets double the
value, i.e. 6 points.
Note: Points are recorded on the scoring strip.
The counter is moved forward the same number
of squares as the number of points received.
Scoring counters
How to play
• Cartouches 2 - 4 determine the order of play and show how 
many counters are to be removed or brought into play in which temples.
• The player whose turn it is assesses cartouches 2 to 4 one after the other, then the other player follows.
For example: Red starts.

The player with the lower card value begins. If the
values are the same, the player who played the
smaller value with “cartouche 1” begins. If those
values were also equal, both players take cards
from their pile until one of them has picked up a
lower card than the other. This player then begins.
(The cards which have been picked up are retur-
ned to the bottom of the pile.)
b) Removing counters (not in the 1st round).
The player whose turn it is now removes coun-
ters from the temples. The number of counters is
determined by the value of the cards laid minus 2.
- If the result is positive, the corresponding number
of any opposing counters are removed.
- If the result is -1, the player must remove any 1 of
his own counters.
If there are not enough counters available in the tem-
ples, just those available are removed.
3rd cartouche – determining the temple:
The card laid here shows the temples from which the
player may remove counters or into which counters
may be placed. All temples which have a number
smaller than or the same as the card may be used.
4th cartouche – positioning counters:
The card which has been played here states the
number of the player's own counters which can be
taken from his own stock in this round and distribu-
ted in the temples. 1 counter is always placed on 
1 unoccupied square in a temple. If a player has no
more counters in his stock, he cannot position any
counters.
Each counter which cannot be positioned is put on
an empty square in the Kingdom of the Dead.
Counters in the Kingdom of the Dead:
Counters are placed in the Kingdom of the Dead if:
• they are removed from the temples; or
• they cannot be placed in a temple (no more
room).
Counters are placed on an empty square of the
Kingdom of the Dead. If the Kingdom of the Dead is
completely full, both players complete their go and
then scoring takes place. 
- 3 -
Example: If a player has laid a 4 card next to this 
cartouche, he may remove 4 - 2 = 2 opposing counters
from the board.
With a 2 card, no counters are removed.
Example: With a card value of 2 , counters 
may be removed from or placed in temples 
“1” and “2”.
Note: The card next to cartouche 3 shows which
temple the counters may be placed in.
Note: The card next to cartouche 3 shows which temples
the counters can be removed from.
Removed counters are placed in the Kingdom of the Dead.
Example: Peter may place 4 counters in temples 1 and 2.
Temple 2 still has 1 empty square, temple 2 still has 2.
So there is no space for his fourth counter. The counter
is placed in the Kingdom of the Dead.
Note: If a player has to place more counters in the
Kingdom of the Dead than there are spaces, the remaining
counters are returned to the stock.
Example: here, 
red has a choice 
of four squares 
on to which he 
may place his 
counter.

- 4 -
When scoring, the following points are awarded.
• Temple 1: the player with the most counters in
this temple gets the number of points which cor-
responds to the difference in value between the
counters belonging to both players in this temple.
• Temple 2: the player with the most counters in
this temple gets 5 points.
• Temple 3: the player with the most counters in
this temple gets the number of points correspon-
ding to the number of counters which he has 
placed here.
• Temple 4: the player with the most counters in
this temple gets 3 points for each of the blue
squares occupied by him (there is one blue square
in each of the four temples).
• Black squares: the player with the most counters
on these squares gets 8 points.
• Bonus squares: each player whose counter occu-
pies a bonus square receives the value stated
there (+1 or +2) as points.
After the scoring round, both players take turns to
remove 4 of their own counters out of the temples,
beginning with the leader (If they have equal
points, red begins).
When doing this – if possible – one of the player's
own counters must be removed from each temple. If
a player has no counters in a temple, then he
removes instead one counter from the highest tem-
ple in which he has counters. 
The counters in the Kingdom of the Dead and the
counters which have just been taken out are put
back in the respective stocks of the players. 
If the game is not over, the next round follows.
Scoring
The End of the Game
Temple 1: Red receives 3 points (P)
[6 red counters minus 3 blue counters = 3 P]
Temple2: Blue receives 5 P 
[Majority always receives 5 P]
Temple 3: Red receives 4 P 
[Majority consists of 4 counters = 4 P]
Temple4: Blue receives 9 P
[Majority receives 3 P for each occupied blue 
square = 9 P]
Black squares: Red receives 8 P
[Majority always receives 8 P]
Bonus squares: Red receives 4 P, Blue receives 4 P
[1 or 2 P as stated on the square]
• The game ends immediately if, when assessing the
1st or 4th cartouche, one of the four conditions for
winning is fulfilled (40 points, all squares of a temple
occupied, all yellow or green squares occupied).
The player who has fulfilled this condition wins the
game.
• Otherwise the game ends after the scoring round
in which a player has reached 40 or more points. In
this case, the complete scoring is carried out.
The winner is the player with the most points
(points over 40 also count). If players have equal
points, the game is a draw.
Note: if there is no majority in a temple, no one receives
any points. This also applies to the scoring of black squares

Playing equipment and set-up
Each player takes on the role of a high priest stri-
ving for power in Thebes of ancient Egypt. 
The winner is the player who is the first to:
• 72 playing cards with the values 1 to 4, 36 each
for blue and red.
• 1 six-part game board
• gain 40 points or 
• occupy all the squares of a temple or
• occupy all the yellow squares in the four temples or
• occupy all the green squares in the four temples.
Aim of the Game
A game by Thorsten Gimmler for 2 players
- 1 -
The high priests of the two great Egyptian
deities Aton and Amon are fighting for 
supremacy. Both leaders want to place their
priests in the crucial positions in the four great
temples in Thebes. 
“Exchange”
counter
2 scoring counters
“Exchange” counter
One of 4 temples each with
12 playing squares, one counter fits
on each square.
Scoring strip (to 40 
points) – this shows both
players' points.
Kingdom of the dead with 8 squares – as
soon as all squares are occupied, scoring
takes place.
29 red counters 
29 blue counters
4 cartouches*
on each side of
the game board.
Bonus square
Stock for drawing new cards
The playing
cards are
laid next to
the cartou-
ches*, here
the blues
opposite the
reds
• 58 priests, the counters in the colours red and blue
• 2 “exchange” counters (white) 
• 2 scoring counters (red and blue)
• 1 set of instructions
*A cartouche
is the oval
surround of
the kings'
names in
Egyptian 
hieroglyphics.
English