1/3
by Karl-Heinz Schmiel
© Rio Grande, 2000
Preparation
Place the game board, influence board and tribal markers in the middle of the table next to each other. Shuffle
the cards and place them face down next to the board.
Place the 10 peace tiles on the century spaces of the board as follows: 1 on 4th century space, 2 stacked on the
5th century space, 3 on the 6th century space and 4 on the 7th century space.
Each player takes the 7 scoring markers and the player tile in his colour. One marker is placed on the zero of
the scoring track of the game board, the rest by the side of the board. The players place the player tile in front
of them.
Deal 6 cards face down to each player. The rest are placed as a stack face down. Discards are played next to
the stack face up.
Each player takes a set of 3 action tiles (one of each type)
Youngest player starts. Others follow clockwise.
Goal
Earn as many points as possible. Points are earned by having the greatest and second greatest influence in a
tribe. Player with the most points at the end of the game wins.
Playing the Game
The active player does the following in his turn (in this order):
1. Play a card and place a corresponding tribe marker;
2. Take influence (or place another tribe marker);
3. Possible conflict and peace;
4. Possible scoring.
Play a card and place a corresponding tribe marker
The active player chooses a card from his hand, plays it, and places a tribe marker of the corresponding tribe in
one of the Roman provinces on the board. The first marker for each tribe must be placed in one of the 6
provinces bordered with red on the board. Subsequent markers may be placed in:
• one of the 6 start provinces;
• in a province that already has one or more markers of the same tribe; or
• in a province that borders one with one or more markers of the same tribe.
After placing the tribe marker discard the card played onto the discard pile.

2/3
Take influence
After placing the tribe marker the active player adds to his influence in that tribe on the influence board by
moving his scoring marker for that tribe:
• 1 space in the 4th century (whilst there is still one peace tile left in the 4th century space) [placing a marker
on the board counts as the first space];
• 2 spaces in the 5th century (when the 4th century is empty and there is still at least one tile left in the 5th
century space);
• 3 spaces in the 6th century (when the 4th and 5th century spaces are empty and there is still at least one tile
left in the 6th century space); or
• 4 spaces in the 7th century (when the 4th, 5th and 6th century spaces are empty and there is still at least one
tile left in the 7th century space).
The active player may choose to relinquish the influence gain and place a second tribe marker of that colour on
the game board, using the rules for placing tribe markers.
Normally the active player's turn is now over and he draws cards to replenish his hand to six cards. Exceptions:
conflict & peace, scoring and double turn.
Conflict and Peace
Each province is limited to 4 tribe markers. Therefore when the active player places a fifth tribe marker in a
province, that province is in conflict. After the conflict is resolved the province is again at peace.
Conflict:
• Starting with the active player and moving clockwise, each player has one chance to play zero or more cards
from his hand face down on the table.
• A player may play any number of cards of those tribes present in the province.
• After all players have played, then the cards for each tribe are totalled and added to the number of tribes of
that colour present in the province for a total strength.
• The tribe with the lowest strength in the province has their markers removed from the province to the
supply.
• If there is a tie for lowest, all these markers are removed.
Peace:
• When the conflict is over a peace tile is placed in the province, taken from the earliest century in which
there are still tiles. The remaining markers are placed on this.
• No further markers are allowed in a province with a peace tile.
Players discard the cards they have played in the conflict but do not draw to 6 until the end of their active turn.
Scoring
When the last peace tile of a century is placed in the game board, all the tribes are scored in order:
Franks, Huns, Goths, Saxons, Teutons and finally Vandals.

3/3
The players with the most and second most influence in each tribe earn points:
a. The player with the most influence (whose marker is highest on the influence track for that tribe) earns 1
point for each marker that tribe has on the game board.
b. The player with the second most influence earns 1 point for each province that tribe has a marker in.
c. If two or more players tie for most influence, then add the number of markers and provinces together and
share them between the players involved, rounding up if necessary.
d. If players tie for 2nd place then share the province point between them.
e. If only one player has influence in a tribe he takes both sets of points.
Action Tiles
The active player can use his action tiles at anytime during his turn (max 1 per turn).
• Double Turn: Play a first card and its actions, then this tile, then a second card and resolve its actions and
then draw to 6 cards.
• Trade: Discard any number of cards from your hand and replenish from the deck
• 2 Influence: Increase any influence track by 2 points or two tracks by 1 point each.
The action tiles are discarded after use.
Game End
• As soon as the last peace tile is placed or
• As soon as the last tribe of a particular tribe is placed on the board or
• As soon as the scoring marker of any player reaches the top of the influence track.
The active player completes his turn and then the tribes are scored again as noted above. The player with the
most points is the winner!
Rules for 2 players
• Each player plays 2 cards per turn (same or different) with the usual options.
• The double action tile only allows the play of a third card.
• To score second in a tribe, the trailing player must be no more than 2 spaces behind the foremost player on
the influence track.
• To simplify scoring the first player can just move the difference between himself and the second player on
the score track.
Clarifications
• Provinces with connecting arrows border each other.
• The game does not end if the last marker causes a conflict which removes that marker.
• No tribe markers are allowed in Sardinia and Corsica; Greece is a single province.
• Scoring occurs after the last peace marker for a century is taken, not for each one!
• Peaceful provinces work normally for the purpose of being bordering provinces.