GAMEPLAY MANUAL
Europe
®

PLAYERS: 2 to 4
AGES: 12 and up
CONTENTS
Gameboard Map
369 Plastic Playing Pieces
Industrial Production Certificates (IPCs)
4 National Reference Charts
National Control Markers
National Production Charts
Battle Board Chart
12 Dice
Plastic Chips (red and gray)
COMPLEXITY LEVEL
 Advanced
 Challenging
 Moderate
GAMEPLAY MANUAL
Europe
®
Game Designer: Larry Harris
It is the spring of 1941 and Germany is about to launch Operation Barbarossa. 
This was Germany’s surprise attack on the Soviet Union that ended the 
Hitler-Stalin non-aggression pact. 
Germany already occupies much of Europe. Great Britain’s resources must 
pass through wolf packs of German submarines that prowl the seas.The United 
States is supplying armaments for the Allies, but will not be entering the war 
for another six months. 
If the Allies can successfully convert their peace-time industries into war 
machines, Germany’s fate will be sealed. On the other hand, if Germany 
manages to destroy the Soviet Army before the full Allied force comes to bear, 
the Axis powers may very well win the war.
WHAT’S DIFFERENT 
ABOUT AXIS & ALLIES ® EUROPE
If you already know how to play the original Axis & Allies game, you’ll 
be able to master the learning curve quickly in this game! Following is 
a brief summary of the major differences between the two games:
1. There are two new types of combat units – destroyers 
and artillery.
2. Allied IPCs (money) are subject to German naval attacks. 
3. Players may not move into or fly over neutral countries.
4. There is no weapons development process.
5. Players may not build new Industrial Complexes.
6. Bombers conducting Strategic Bombing Raids may be escorted 
by friendly fighters and attacked by enemy fighters.
7. Battleships and submarines have new powers and abilities.
8. If German forces capture Middle East countries, the Allies 
are forced to pay IPCs directly to Germany.
9. Order of play for each country is different.
10. Each country gets a special cash advance before the game starts.
11. The Soviet Union has special control over Allied units within 
its home territories.

OBJECT OF THE GAME
To win the war, you must do either of the following:
• If you are one of the Allied powers (Great Britain, United States,
or Soviet Union), you must occupy Germany and hold it until
your next turn. You must also control your home country.
(The Soviet player must retain control of Moscow.) In this case,
the Allies win as a team, not just the player who controls
Germany. (If you also want an individual winner, it is the
Allied country with the greatest increase in IPC income.)
• If you are Germany, you must occupy Great Britain, United
States, or Moscow and hold it until your next turn. You must
also control Germany. 
STRATEGY–THE BIG PICTURE
At the beginning of the game, Germany is strong militarily, but
inferior economically to the combined Allied forces. Therefore,
Germany should attack swiftly before the Allies can build up
their land and sea forces. Great Britain must relentlessly assault
Germany to keep the Germans from a concentrated attack on
the Soviet Union. The United States must make every effort to
produce and send weapons. And the Soviet Union must fend off
German assaults.
As you play, you’ll discover that you must be a military
strategist and a clever economist to win. Most territories you
capture increase your income and give you the buying power to
purchase more combat units. As the game progresses, your ability
to attack and the intensity of the attack will be influenced by
how much income you have and how many combat units you
have in strategic locations.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Game Setup
The Gameboard
Industrial Production Certificates
What to do on a Turn
Action Sequence 1 – Purchase Combat Units
Action Sequence 2 – Combat Movement
Action Sequence 3 – Resolve Combat 
Combat Results
Special Kinds of Battles
Amphibious Assaults
Multi-Player Forces
Strategic Bombing Raids
The Battle of the Atlantic
Action Sequence 4 – Non-Combat Movement
The Soviet Patriotic War
Action Sequence 5 – Place New Units
Action Sequence 6 – 
Submerged submarines resurface;
Damaged battleships uprighted
Action Sequence 7 – Collect Income
The Middle East
Combat Units

GAME SETUP 
1. Pick a world power.
4-player Game
Player 2: Soviet Union
Player 3: Great Britain
Player 4: United States
3-player Game
Player 2: Soviet Union
Player 3: Great Britain and United States
2-player Game
Player 2: Soviet Union, Great Britain and United States
Note: If you control more than one world power, you must
keep each power’s IPCs and weapon units separate from each
other. Throughout this manual, world powers are sometimes
referred to generically as “countries.”
2. Distribute National Reference Charts. 
Each world power has its own chart. These charts offer a quick
reference for combat force setup, unit movement abilities, attack
and defense capabilities, and unit costs. Each chart also gives a
list of Action Sequences that you follow during your turn. Land
and naval combat sequences are also shown.
3. Distribute National Control Markers (NCMs). 
Carefully punch out the NCMs from the cardboard sheets. 
Each power has its own NCMs as shown here.
NCMs are used as ownership tokens to show which country
owns which territory. This is helpful as territories change
hands. NCMs are also used as scoring disks on the National
Production Chart to keep track of each country’s income 
(which changes as territories are won and lost). 
4. Setup the National Production Chart. 
Place one NCM on top of its matching space for each power on
the National Production Chart. This indicates each country’s starting
income, including convoys. Note that the United States and
Germany start on the same space.
Appoint one player to be scorekeeper. It will be his job to move the
NCMs up and down the National Production Chart as territories
change hands.
Note: If the NCMs get mixed up or knocked off their spaces on
the chart, it is easy to reposition them. Allied countries each
add up the territories and Convoy centers they own (except
Middle East countries). Germany adds up all land territories
it controls. Players find their total on the chart and reposition
their markers. Germany should also count up any Middle East
countries it controls and reposition its markers on the separate
part of the chart.
Soviet Union
Germany
Great Britain
United States
Naval Combat Sequence
1. Put combat units on battle board.
2. Attacking submarines make 
"First Shot"** or submerge.
3. Submarine casualties are removed.
4. Attacker fires.
5. Defender returns fire and/or submerges.
6. Remove all casualties (both sides).
7. Repeat steps 2 thru 6 until . . .
 a) Attacker retreats/is submerged.
 b) Attacker is destroyed/submerged.
 c) Defender is destroyed/submerged.
 d) Both sides are destroyed/submerged.
Land Combat Sequence
1. Put combat units on battle board.
2. Anti-aircraft (AA) gun fires at 
each aircraft.
4. Defender returns fire. 
5. Remove all casualties (both sides).
6. Repeat steps 3 thru 5 until . . .
 a) Attacker retreats.
 b) Attacker is destroyed.
 c) Defender is destroyed.
 d) Both sides are destroyed.
soviet union
 reference chart
axis and allies ® europe
COST
n/a
MOVEMENT
ATTACK
 2*
DEFENSE
TYPE OF UNIT
MOSCOW
RUSSIA
SIBERIA
ARCHANGEL
KARELIA
LENINGRAD
BELORUSSIA
TURKESTAN
STALINGRAD
UKRAINE S.S.R.
CAUCASUS
IRAN
EAST POLAND
BALTIC STATES
VYBORG
WTHITE SEA
BESSARABIA
4 4 3 3 2 2 4 3 2 4 3 1 4 3 1
1 1
**If defending destroyer is not present.
*Increases each matching infantry to an attack roll of 2.
Action Sequence
1. Purchase Units
2. Combat Movement
3. Combat
4. Non-Combat Movement
5. Place New Units
6. Right Side-Up
Submerged Subs and 
Damaged Battleships
7. Collect Income
 Starting Income
24 Industrial Production Certificates
I N D U S T R I A L 
PRO DUC TI O N 
CERTIFICATES
CAPTURED BY AXIS 
FORCES IN THE
MIDDLE EAST

5. Plastic chips
Plastic chips are used as substitutes for combat units to save
space in overcrowded territories and sea zones. One gray chip
represents 1 unit and 1 red chip represents 5 units.
Example: To place seven infantry units on a territory, stack up one
red chip, one gray chip, and top it off with one plastic infantry piece. 
Important: Stacked chips must always be topped off by the
identifying combat unit piece.
6. Place starting units on the gameboard.
Look at your National Reference Chart. It lists the number and
type of combat units to be placed in your territories. See the
example of Great Britain’s setup below.
All players place their units (color-coded by country) in their
territories now. Use chips as combat unit substitutes wherever
you can to save space.
• Great Britain controls the tan pieces.
• The United States controls the green pieces.
• The Soviet Union controls the brownish-red pieces.
• Germany controls the black pieces.
Note: Antiaircraft guns and Industrial Complexes are not color-
coded by country. All countries use the same color.
THE COMBAT UNITS
A detailed profile of each combat unit – how it moves, how it
attacks, how it defends and how it interacts with other units – is
provided in the Combat Units section of this manual on page 20.
*Increases each matching infantry to an attack roll of 2.
axis and allies ® europe
COST
n/a
MOVEMENT
ATTACK
 2*
DEFENSE
TYPE OF UNIT
UNITED KINGDOM
CANADA
EGYPT
PALESTINE
SYRIA
IRAQ
MALTA
EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
STRAIT OF GIBRALTAR
NORTH SEA
ENGLISH CHANNEL
DAVIS STRAIT
CELTIC SEA
1 1
1 1 1 1
Allied 105 Howitzer
German 88mm
U.S. P-38 Lightning
Soviet Yak
German Stuka
British Spitfire
U.S. B-17
British Halifax
German JU 88
Soviet Petlayakov PE 8
L AN D U NI TS
AI R U N I TS
ANTI AI R C R AFT G U N
N AVAL U NI TS
U.S. and British Sherman Tank
Soviet T-34
German Panther
U.S. Wasp Class
British and Soviet Illustrious Class
German Graf Zepplin Class
Allied Ray Class
German U-Boat Type VII
U.S. Iowa Class
British and Soviet Royal Oak Class
German Bismark Class
Allied Liberty Ship
German Danzig Class
Allied Johnston Class
German Friedrich Eckholt Class

THE GAMEBOARD
The gameboard depicts Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, and
a portion of North America during the spring of 1941. The four
major capitals are identified with national symbols representing
Germany, Great Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union. 
Color Coding
The following countries and territories are color-coded as 
shown below.
• Germany is brown.
• Other Axis countries are tan.
• Canada, Great Britain (U.K.) and its territories are green.
• Soviet Union homelands are red.
• Territories annexed by the Soviet Union as a result of the
Stalin-Hitler non-aggression pact of 1939 are light purple.
• United States is blue.
• Neutral territories are white.
• Middle East countries are yellow.
Land Territories, Sea Zones and Convoy Centers
The map is divided into land territories and sea zones.
Boundaries between each of these areas are marked with black
lines. Some sea zones contain islands. Islands count as separate
land territories, and are not part of sea zones. Moving onto 
or off an island in a sea zone is considered one movement. 
Seven special sea zones contain an image of U.S., British, or Soviet
convoys. These are known as Convoy centers and represent the
many supply convoys heading to and leaving from Great Britain,
the Soviet Union, and the United States. All are subject to
attack by German submarines and warships, as explained later.
7. Game Dice
The dice are rolled to attack and defend in all combat situations
including Strategic Bombing Raids. This is often referred to
as “firing.” 
8. Battle Board
The battle board helps you keep track of units engaged in combat,
as well as the dice rolls needed to attack and defend successfully.
9. Money
The scorekeeper should also serve as banker in charge of IPCs
(Industrial Production Certificates), commonly known as money.
IPCs fuel the war effort for all countries. Separate the IPCs by
denomination. Distribution of the IPCs is explained in the
Industrial Production Certificates on page 6.
Convoy Center
Sea Zone
Land Territory
Island

The number that appears in most land territories and all Convoy
centers represents the Industrial Production Certificate value 
of the area. 
Note: Throughout the rules, land territories and sea zones are
sometimes referred to generically as “spaces.” When you 
or an ally control these areas, they are sometimes referred 
to as “friendly.” 
Middle East Countries
Middle East countries are independent states, but are occupied
by Allied forces. The Allies enjoy the oil resources from this
area, but these resources are subject to German disruption, 
as explained later.
Neutral Territories
There are seven white territories on the gameboard. These are
neutral territories and players may not move units into them
nor fly over them. No naval units may pass through the neutral
Turkish sea zone, although air units may fly between the Black
Sea and the Aegean Sea. 
Movement on the Gameboard
Units are moved between territories and sea zones. Some units
may move just one adjacent space per turn, while others may
move up to six spaces. Movement occurs during the Combat
Movement and Non-Combat Movement portion of a turn. Each
unit’s movement ability is listed on the National Reference Charts. 
Land units and antiaircraft guns may only move between land
territories unless being convoyed by naval transports. 
Naval units may only move between sea zones. 
Air units may move through both land and sea areas, although
they may only land in a land territory. (Fighter planes may also
land upon aircraft carriers.)
Moving a unit from one adjacent territory or zone to another 
is counted as a single movement. For example, marching from
Germany to Poland is one land movement. Sailing from the
South Atlantic to the Central Atlantic is one sea movement. 
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
CERTIFICATES (MONEY)
The scorekeeper should also serve as IPC banker. 
IPCs fuel the war effort for all countries. 
Special Cash Advance
Before the game starts, after the pieces are on the board, 
the banker makes a one-time disbursement of IPCs. The Axis
player (Germany) receives 12 IPCs to spend or save as he sees
fit. The Allied players (as a group) receive 12 IPCs to spend
or save as they see fit. 
The two sides may buy and place units in territories or sea
zones in which they already have at least one unit at this time
(unlike the rest of the game where units may only be placed in
areas with Industrial Complexes). The Axis player buys and
places first, followed by the Allied side. 
The two sides may keep any or all of these IPCs and add them
to their IPC starting income for the first turn. The Allies may
divide the money or give it all to one country. After both
sides have had the opportunity to buy and place units, each
country receives its starting income as follows: 
Starting Income
At the beginning of the first turn, the banker disburses additional
IPCs as follows:
The remaining money remains in “the bank.”
The starting income of each world power is based on how many
land territories and Convoy centers it controls. 
Note: Place your IPCs next to your National Reference Chart.
Players controlling more than one world power should place
IPCs for each power partially underneath each respective
National Reference Chart. 
UNITED STATES
GREAT BRITAIN
GERMANY
SOVIET UNION
STAR TI N G INCOME
WOR L D P O WE R

SEQUENCE 1
WHAT TO DO ON A TURN
On your turn, follow the seven-part Action Sequence as outlined
below. When you’ve completed the entire sequence, your turn 
is over. Play continues to the next designated player who then
completes the entire sequence. When every player has completed
an entire sequence, a round of play is over. It will take more
than one round of play to determine a winning side.
Order of play: 
1. Germany goes first.
2. The Soviet Union goes second.
3. Great Britain goes third.
4. The United States goes last. 
This order is repeated throughout the game.
Action Sequence
During a turn, a player performs some or all of the seven 
parts of the Action Sequence in the following order:
1. Purchase Combat Units.
2. Combat Movement. 
3. Resolve Combat. 
4. Non-combat Movement.
5. Place New Units on Gameboard. 
6. Submerged submarines resurface; damaged battleships 
are uprighted.
7. Collect Income.
Note that players may choose to do some of these sequence
parts or all of them. Players will not always be able to 
complete all of the Action Sequence.
Each of these sequence parts is explained in detail as follows:
SEQUENCE 2
PURCHASE COMBAT UNITS
You may now buy new combat units using IPCs you have on
hand. New units are not placed on the gameboard until Action
Sequence 5. Unit prices are shown on the National Reference
Charts under COST. For example, a fighter plane costs 12 IPCs. 
Before you begin buying combat units, you should review the
Combat Units section beginning on page 20. There you will find
a detailed profile of each type of unit – how it moves, how it
attacks, how it defends, and how it interacts with other units. 
Follow these three steps to purchase combat units:
1. Pick out the units you wish to buy, if any.
2. Total up their cost and pay the bank in IPCs.
3. Place new units in the Action Sequence 1 Purchases area 
located on the lower left of the gameboard. The units remain
there until Action Sequence 5 of your turn.
Note: If you run out of a playing piece, you may still buy 
that unit. Simply use a piece of paper with the type of unit 
written on it.
COMBAT MOVEMENT 
You may now move units you already have in place into land
territories and sea zones that are occupied and/or owned by the
enemy. Doing so creates a combat situation. You may move 
into as many combat situations as you wish during this Action
Sequence. However, each attacking unit may only be involved 
in one battle per turn. At no time may an Allied power attack
another Allied power. 
The number of spaces each unit may move on a turn is found on
the National Reference Charts.
The following movement rules apply to this Action Sequence, 
but will be explained in greater detail later in this manual. 
• Air units involved in Strategic Bombing Raids are moved during
this sequence. Strategic Bombing Raids are explained on page 15.
• Units involved in Amphibious Assaults are moved during this
sequence. Amphibious Assaults are explained on page 13.
• You may move units into empty, adjacent, enemy-controlled
territories to take control of them without engaging in combat. 

2. Antiaircraft (AA) gun fires at each aircraft. 
When resolving combat, the attacking player normally goes
first. However, when there is an AA gun in any enemy territory
being attacked, and the attacking player has aircraft (bombers
and/or fighters) in the attacking force, then the defending player
may fire AA guns first. Here’s how:
• The defending AA gunner rolls one die against each 
attacking aircraft.
• For each “1” that is rolled, one plane is shot down and
immediately removed (plane owner’s choice). The plane
removed has no chance to counterattack. 
• No matter how many AA guns are in a territory, only one 
die per aircraft is rolled for that territory. The battle then
proceeds as described below. 
The attacking player goes first. Note that the battle board 
is divided into four sections. The attacking player may find it 
convenient to resolve all combat in section 1 first, then section 2
and so on. However, this is not required. 
The attacker rolls one die for each attacking unit.
Example: In section 1 of the battle board, each roll of a “1” by
an infantry unit scores a hit against the defender’s choice of units.
Example: In section 3 of the battle board, each roll of a “3,”
“2,” or “1” by a fighter plane scores a hit against the defender’s
choice of units.
SEQUENCE 3
• You may move any of your naval units out of sea zones containing
enemy units (as long as your units were in the sea zone at the
beginning of your turn), even if the movement prevents combat
from taking place. In short, naval units may move from an
occupied sea zone to another sea zone, whether occupied or not. 
• You many not load or unload land units on a transport ship 
in a sea zone that contains enemy units. If the transport
moves into a friendly or empty sea zone, it may load or
unload troops. 
• Armor units have a special “blitzing” capability that allows
them to move through an empty, enemy-controlled territory
and into another adjacent territory. Blitzing is explained 
on page 21.
• When moving air units during this sequence, you must 
be sure that all units have a safe landing location or they
cannot be moved.
• Any air units that fly over enemy antiaircraft guns during
Combat Movement are subject to antiaircraft fire. If a unit
flies over more than one territory containing enemy guns, 
it is subject to multiple attacks (one for each territory).
Important: All combat movement must be completed before
combat situations are resolved. 
RESOLVING COMBAT
All combat movement must be completed before combat 
situations may be resolved. Combat is resolved by rolling dice.
This is often referred to as “firing.” No new units may be
moved into battle as reinforcements once Resolving Combat has
begun. Each combat situation is resolved separately, territory 
by territory (or sea zone) in any order determined by the 
attacker. (Strategic Bombing Raids are conducted first – see
page 15 for details.)
Resolving Land Combat
When land and air units move into an enemy-occupied territory,
follow the sequence below.
1. Put combat units on the battle board. 
Both the attacking and defending players place the units involved
in a combat situation (one territory) onto their respective side
of the battle board. Position units on their matching shapes. The
attack and defense strength for each unit is shown on the battle
board as well as on each country’s National Reference Chart. 

After all hits (if any) are scored, the defender chooses which of
his units will be casualties and moves them to the Casualties area
on the battle board. These casualties will get a chance to fire
back before being removed. (Combat is considered simultaneous,
so each defending unit that’s hit has one opportunity to return fire.) 
Important: Antiaircraft guns and Industrial Complexes may not
be chosen as casualties.
4. Defender fires back. 
After the attacking player has fired, the defending player rolls
one die for each defending unit, including any that were moved
to the Casualties area. Units in the Casualties area still have
their normal defensive value: “2” or less for infantry, “2” or
less for armor and so on. 
Example: In section 2 of the battle board, each roll of a “2”
or“1” by a defending infantry unit scores a hit against the
attacker’s choice of units.
5. Remove all casualties. 
After all hits are scored by the defender, the original attacker
must remove that many units (original attacker’s choice) from
the battle board and place them out of play. 
After the defender’s counterattack, the defender removes all of
his units from the Casualties area of the battle board. They are
placed out of play.
6. Repeat steps 3 thru 5.
Combat continues until one of the following four situations occurs:
A. The attacker retreats. After both the attacker and defender
have rolled, the attacker may retreat, thereby stopping that 
particular battle. The attacking land units may only retreat to 
an adjacent friendly territory that was under the owner’s control
at the start of the turn – and from which any of the attacking
land units came. The units must all withdraw together to the
same territory.
Aircraft may retreat to any friendly land territory, island or 
aircraft carrier still within movement range and under its
owner’s control since the beginning of the turn. Retreating
planes, however, are still subject to enemy antiaircraft gunfire 
if they pass over territories with AA guns.
Return the defending units that survived from the battle board 
to the territory.
Note: Retreating is an attacker’s privilege only.
B. The attacker is destroyed. If the defender destroys all 
the attacking units, the battle is over. Remove all destroyed
units from play and return the defending units that survived 
to the territory.
C. The defender is destroyed. If the attacker hits all the defending
units, the battle is over after the defender counterattacks.
Remove all destroyed units from play and return the attacking
units that survived to the territory. 
D. Both attacker and defender are destroyed. If all units are hit
during an attack and counterattack, the battle is over. Remove 
all destroyed units. The defender retains control of the territory.
Resolving Naval Combat 
When naval and air units move into an enemy-occupied sea zone,
follow the rules sequence below.
1. Put all units on the battle board. 
Both the attacking and defending players place the units
involved in a combat situation (one sea zone) onto their 
respective side of the battle board. Position units on their
matching shapes. The attack and defense strength for each 
unit is shown on the battle board as well as on each country’s
National Reference Chart. 

Note that there is a position for an attacking transport ship 
on the attacker side of the battle board, but there is no attack
value assigned to it. An attacker’s transport should be placed
on the bottom of the attacker’s side of the board, as indicated.
Even though the transport has no attack factor, it may be
selected as a casualty should the attacking force be required 
to eliminate a unit. 
2. Attacking submarines make “first-strike” attack or submerge.
Attacking submarines may usually fire before any other unit
during each round of combat. This is called a First-strike attack.
(However, submarines may never fire at air units.) To launch a
First-strike attack, roll one die for each attacking submarine.
For every “2” or less rolled, the defender suffers a hit and chooses
a casualty. These casualties are not placed on the Casualties
area of the battle board, but are immediately removed from
play. They do not get a chance to counterattack. 
Exception to “First-strike attack” rule: The presence of an enemy
destroyer in the battle negates all submarines’ first-strike ability.
(But not their ability to submerge – see below.)
Submarines may submerge instead of attacking. A submerged
sub is turned onto its side to indicate this submerged condition.
It remains on its side and may not attack or be attacked again
this turn. Submerged subs are returned to their upright position
in Action Sequence 6.
There are a number of other rules that apply to submarines. 
See Combat Units –Submarines section on page 26. 
The attacker now rolls one die for each attacking unit (except
submarines that have already attacked or submerged). If the
number rolled is equal to or less than the number shown on the
attacker’s side of the battle board, then the attacker scores a hit. 
After all hits are scored (if any), the defender chooses which of
his units are casualties and moves them to the Casualties area
on the battle board. These casualties will get a chance to fire
back before being removed. (Combat is considered simultaneous,
so each defending unit that’s hit has one opportunity to return fire.) 
Important: If a transport ship is hit, any units on board go down
with the ship. (A unit on board may not be chosen as the casualty.)
Note: There are special rules for fighter planes attacking from
aircraft carriers. These rules are explained in the Combat Units
– Aircraft Carriers section on pages 24–25.
4. Defender fires back and/or submerges.
After the attacking player has completed firing all units on the
battle board, the defending player rolls one die for each defending
unit, including any that were moved to the Casualties area. Units
in the Casualties area still have the normal defensive value shown
on the battle board. 
Defending submarines may submerge instead of firing back. 
The sub is turned on its side to indicate this submerged condition. 
It remains on its side and may not attack or be attacked again
this turn. Submerged subs are returned to their upright position 
in Action Sequence 6.
Note: Submarines are the only defending units in the game that
may withdraw from battle. 
It Takes Two Hits to Sink a Battleship
In addition to their strong attack and defense capabilities, 
battleships must be hit twice in the same battle to be eliminated.
On the first hit, the battleship is placed on its side to indicate
the hit. On the second hit, the ship is removed. If it does not
receive a second hit during that battle, its damage is “repaired”
and it is turned upright at the end of the turn. 
5. Remove all casualties.
After all hits are scored by the defender, the original attacker must
remove that many of his units (attacker’s choice) from the battle
board and place them out of play. 
After the defender’s counterattack, the defender removes all of
his units that are in the Casualties area of the battle board. 
6. Repeat steps 2 to 5.
Combat continues until one of the following four situations occurs: 
A. The attacker retreats/submerges. After both the attacker and
defender have rolled, the attacker may retreat and/or submerge,
thereby stopping that particular battle. The attacking naval
units may only retreat back to an adjacent friendly sea zone
from which any of the attacking naval units came. They must
withdraw together to the same territory. The attacking units
may not retreat to a sea zone that contains an enemy unit, even
if they came from that sea zone at the start of the turn.

Exception #1: The attacker may retreat to a sea zone in which
the only enemy is a submerged submarine.
Exception #2: The attacker may not retreat from a sea zone that
contains only submerged submarines. In this case, the battle is over. 
Exception #3: An attacking sub may submerge in the same sea
zone instead of retreating. A submerged sub is turned onto its
side to indicate this submerged condition. It remains on its side
and may not attack or be attacked again this turn. Submerged
subs are returned to their upright position in Action Sequence 6.
Note: Retreating is an attacker’s privilege only. Return the
defending units that survived to their territories.
B. The attacker is destroyed/submerged. If the defender destroys
all the attacking units and/or all attacking units submerged, the
battle is over. Remove all destroyed units and return the surviving
units to the sea zone.
C. The defender is destroyed/submerged. If the attacker destroys
all the defending units and/or all defending units submerged, the
battle is over after the defender counterattacks. Remove all
destroyed units and return the units that survived to the sea zone.
D. Both the attacker and defender are destroyed/submerged.
If all units are hit during an attack and counterattack and/or 
all units are submerged, the battle is over. Remove all destroyed
units and return any submerged units to the sea zone.
E. All remaining units are unable to attack each other. If only
submarines and aircraft remain in battle, the battle is over as
they may not attack each other. Return all units to the sea zone.
COMBAT RESULTS
Land combat: Territory is either held by the successful defender
or captured by the successful attacker.
• If the attacker withdraws, the defender holds the territory.
• If the attacker and the defender are both destroyed, the
defender holds the territory. 
• If the attacker is destroyed, the defender holds the territory. 
• If the defender is destroyed, the attacker captures the territory,
as long as the attacker has a surviving land unit. If planes
remain as the attacker’s only surviving units, then the attacker
does not control the territory. 
Naval Combat: Most sea zones are not captured, but fleets are
diminished or destroyed. (Convoy centers are special sea zones
that can be captured.)
Air Units: You may not capture a territory with air units alone.
Attacking planes may not remain or land in a space where a
battle just took place. 
Capturing a Territory
If you capture a territory, do the following:
1. Remove the defender’s marker, if applicable, otherwise add
your own. Exception: When liberating a former Allied territory,
control returns to the original owner, not the liberator. 
2. Remove surviving units from the battle board and place them
in the newly acquired territory.
3. Adjust the National Production Chart as described below.
Adjusting National Production Chart
Although you do not collect IPCs until Action Sequence 6, 
the National Production Chart (NPC), which monitors income,
must be updated as soon as combat is resolved. The control
markers on the NPC are adjusted as follows:
In most cases, the successful attacker’s National Production
level is increased by the value of the captured territory. (In a
few cases, the territory has no value.) The losing defender’s
National Production level is decreased by the value of the lost
territory. (Exception: When liberating a former Allied territory,
the original ally regains these values unless that ally’s capital is
currently occupied by an enemy. In this case, the liberator does
take control of the country and receives IPCs for it until his
ally’s capital is liberated.) 

Any antiaircraft gun or Industrial Complex in the territory
remain, but now belong to the attacker. A captured Industrial
Complex may not be used until the new owner’s next turn.
Note: If a successful defender remains in control of the territory,
no adjustment of the NPC is necessary.
Battle of the Atlantic NPC Adjustments: These adjustments are
explained in the Battle of the Atlantic section on page 16.
Middle East NPC Adjustments: These adjustments are explained
in the Collect Income – Middle East section on page 19.
Capturing an Enemy Capital 
Remember, the object of the game is to capture and hold an enemy
capital through one turn (while still controlling your own capital).
Capturing a capital (identified with the country’s national symbol)
is done the same way as capturing any other territory. Enemy
forces must be eliminated and a land combat unit must occupy
the territory. When a capital is captured, the National Production
Chart is adjusted accordingly for the capturing player and the
losing player. In addition, the capturing player immediately
takes all of the IPCs that the losing player has on hand. (This is
an exception to the normal action sequence rules.)
To win the game, the capturing player must still be in control of the
enemy capital and his own capital at the beginning of his next turn.
If you are the player whose capital has been captured, you are
still in the game. On your turn, you may not purchase units nor
receive IPC income. But you may move units and engage in
combat. If you regain control of your capital on your turn, you
are entitled to your IPCs during your Collect Income sequence. 
Liberating a Former Allied Territory
If you are an Allied power and you capture a territory (including a
capital) originally owned by another Allied player, you are not
considered the new owner but, rather, the liberator. Your ally
becomes the owner again. Remove the German marker from the
territory and adjust the original owner’s income level on the
National Production Chart. 
Exception: If the original owner’s capital is in German hands at
the time that the other territory is captured, then the National
Production Chart is adjusted for the player who actually captured
the territory. That player may also use an Industrial Complex
there until the original owner’s capital is liberated. The National
Production Chart would then be adjusted again.
Capturing a Capital Example
Germany captured Moscow on its turn. When Moscow was captured,
the Soviet player immediately handed over all his available IPCs
to the German player.
On the Soviet player’s turn, he may not purchase any units.
However, he may use the pieces he has on the board. He moves
two tanks, an infantry unit, and an artillery unit into Moscow
to try to reclaim his capital. Against the one German tank, 
he succeeds easily.
At this point, the Soviet Union controls the capital again. The IPC
income for the Soviet Union is raised by 2, and the German income
is lowered by 2. Furthermore, the Soviet player is entitled to
receive his IPC income on this turn.

SPECIAL KINDS OF BATTLES
Amphibious Assaults
An Amphibious Assault is an attack on an enemy coastal 
territory or island by land units that have been moved there by
transport ships during Action Sequence 2 – Combat Movement.
During Combat Movement, the attacker must declare that he 
is performing an Amphibious Assault and on what territory. 
He may not redirect it to a different territory during Action
Sequence 3 – Resolve Combat. Each transport can only unload
into one territory – it cannot split its cargo into two different
landing territories. However, two different transports in the
same sea zone can unload into two different territories, if the
player desires.
Land units that are on adjacent territories may also take part 
in an Amphibious Assault. Air units may also participate, as
well as battleships and destroyers in the same sea zone as the
unloading transport. 
An Amphibious Assault is handled like any other land battle,
except that all land units (including those that may have come
from adjacent territories) lose their option of retreating. Air
units may retreat as normal.
Moving a land unit into or out of a transport counts as that
unit’s full move. The land unit may not move to additional 
territories after landing, nor may it move to a territory and
then board a transport on the same turn. 
Transports that have been in battle may either load or unload
(but not both) on the turn during which the battle took place.
Transports that retreat from a sea battle during an Amphibious
Assault may not unload on that turn. 
For more information about transports, refer to the Combat
Units – Transports section on page 27.
Resolving an Amphibious Assault: Move all combatants to the
battle board and do the following: 
1. Attacking battleships and destroyers fire first. This is a 
one-shot support attack to provide cover fire for landing
units. The attacker rolls one die for each battleship, looking
for a “4” or less per die. The attacker then rolls one die for
each destroyer, looking for a “3” or less per die. The defender
chooses his/her casualties (if any) and moves them to the
Casualties area of the battle board. (These units may fire
during the defender’s normal counterattack.)
2. The attacker removes the attacking ships from the battle board
and places them back in the sea zone on the gameboard. 
3. Defending AA guns fire at any enemy air units as 
previously described.
4. Attacking land and air units now fire. The defender then 
counterattacks as usual. 
5. Repeat step 4 until one side (or both) is destroyed.
Remember that only attacking air units may retreat. 
Naval battle precedes Amphibious Assault: During an Amphibious
Assault, if there are enemy naval units in the same sea zone as
the amphibious force, a naval battle must occur before land
units may be unloaded. Air units to be used in the Amphibious
Assault must be flown to the territory being attacked before
this naval battle takes place. These air units may not also 
participate in the naval battle. Air units can be sent to participate
in the naval battle, but these can’t be used in the Amphibious
Assault. All the attacking naval units, including transports,
must defeat all enemy naval units in the zone before the transports
may unload the attacking land units. If a player is forced to
eliminate a transport because of battle loses, any units on board
are also lost.
Note: The attacker may not “hold back” some ships from the
naval battle to use in the Amphibious Assault.
Once the sea zone is clear, the transports may be unloaded and
the amphibious assault begins. Any air units involved in the
naval battle may not attack in the Amphibious Assault on the
Note: After a naval battle, the attacker is allowed to call off the
Amphibious Assault. He may not redirect it to another territory.
Naval support exception: If a naval battle occurs before an
Amphibious Assault, battleships and destroyers may not exercise
their special one-shot support attack. (These units were too
involved in the naval battle to provide covering fire.)

Amphibious Assault Example #1
On Great Britain’s turn, the British player loads an armor unit
into a transport on the North Sea, and unloads it into Norway.
The British player also moves a fighter plane into Norway.
The destroyer in the North Sea provides a support shot, since it
is in the same sea zone as the unloading transport, and has not
participated in combat this turn. One die is rolled, resulting in a
“3” – a hit. Germany moves one infantry to the Casualties area,
although it may still fire this turn. Next, Great Britain rolls for
the armor and the fighter. A roll of two “5s” results in two misses.
Next, Germany rolls three dice for the three infantry units in
Norway. A “2,” “3,” and “3” are rolled – just one hit. Britain
removes the tank and Germany removes the (already selected)
infantry unit. Without a land unit to take Norway, Great
Britain decides to retreat. It moves the plane back to the Great
Britain, and the battle is over.
Amphibious Assault Example #2
Germany is attempting an Amphibious Assault in Libya. Germany
loads two infantry units into a transport in the Adriatic, and
moves into the Central Mediterranean, along with a submarine
and a battleship.
In the first round of naval combat, Germany rolls a “4” for 
the sub (which does not have a first shot attack because of the
defending destroyer), and a “4” for the battleship, scoring one
hit. The destroyer then rolls a “1,” scoring a hit. Germany takes
one hit on the battleship and turns it on its side.
Now that the sea zone has been cleared of enemy ships, the
transport may unload its units into Libya. (As stated in the rules,
Germany may not change its plans and unload in Greece, for
example.) The battleship, which has participated in combat this
turn, may not fire a support shot. Also, the destroyer in the
Eastern Mediterranean may not fire a support shot since it is
not in the same sea zone as the unloading transport. The transport
may not move its second space into the Eastern Mediterranean
because no unit may move after it has been in combat. Now the
ground battle takes place.

The German player fires for the infantry, rolling a “3” and a “4.”
The British player rolls a “2,” scoring a hit. Germany removes
an infantry unit from the board. At this point, Germany would
like to retreat, but may not, since land units may not retreat
from an Amphibious Assault. Germany fires for the infantry
unit, rolling a “1” and scoring a hit. However, the British player
also rolls a “1,” so both units are removed. Libya, although
clear of units, remains in British hands, since there are no German
ground forces to claim it.
Multi-player Forces 
When Allied units are in the same territory or sea zone, a multi-
player force is said to be present. Such forces may defend 
themselves together, but they may not attack together. 
Defending together: When Allied units in the same territory 
(or sea zone) are attacked – and a hit is scored – the defenders
mutually agree which unit is chosen as the casualty. If they 
cannot agree, the attacker chooses. When counterattacking,
each defender rolls separately for his units. 
Attacking separately: When Allied units in the same territory
(or sea zone) wish to attack, each attacker must do so only with
his own units and only on his own turn. Each player moves his
units into combat on his turn and resolves combat. 
Transporting multi-player forces: A country may use its transports
to carry units of another Allied country. However, players may
only move their pieces on their respective turn. This makes
multi-player force transports a three-step process:
1. On your turn, move your land units aboard the Allied transport.
2. The player with the transport moves it (along with your land
units) on his turn. 
3. You unload your land units on your next turn. 
This three-step process is true whether the Allied transport
needs to move or not. In other words, the U.S. player cannot
board a British transport and unload from it on the same turn,
whether the British transport moves or not.
Strategic Bombing Raids 
A Strategic Bombing Raid (SBR) is an economic attack against
an enemy Industrial Complex (factory), allowing the attacker to
“destroy” the IPCs of the enemy. Only bombers may conduct
SBRs, although fighter planes may escort bombers as protection.
Here is how a Strategic Bombing Raid is launched: 
1. Move and announce: On the Combat Movement sequence 
of your turn, move your bomber into a territory with an
Industrial Complex, and announce that you are making a
Strategic Bombing Raid. (Do not use the battle board in this
kind of attack.)
2. Send escorts: You may send fighter planes along with your
bombers as “fighter escorts.” These fighters are moved along
with the bombers (range permitting) to the target. Any fighters
and bombers used in a Strategic Bombing Raid may not also
be used in a regular land attack against that territory on the
3. Defender declares defending fighter planes. Any fighters used
to defend against a Strategic Bombing Raid may not also
defend in a regular land attack in that same territory on the
4. Defending AA guns fire first: Before the actual bombing
begins, any antiaircraft guns and fighter planes in the
defending territory may fire first in an attempt to defend 
the Industrial Complex. Here’s how:
A. The defending player fires his AA gun by rolling one die
against each attacking aircraft (bombers and any fighter
escorts). Each roll of “1” scores a hit and the number of 
hits is noted. 
B. The defending player may then roll one die for each of his
fighter planes located in the territory being attacked. Each roll
of “2” or lower scores a hit and the number of hits is noted.
(Note that the the fighters defending against a Strategic
Bombing Raid defend at “2,” not “4.”)
C. The escorting fighter planes (attackers) then return fire at
any defending fighter planes involved in the battle. One die is
rolled for each escorting fighter. Each die roll of “1” is a hit
against the defending fighter planes and they are immediately
removed. (Fighter escorts during a Strategic Bombing Raid
attack with “1,” not “3.”)
D. The attacking player removes his casualties (attacker’s
choice of bombers or fighters).
Important: This battle is now over (after one round).

5. The bombing raid takes place: After passing through any
antiaircraft fire and any defending enemy fighters, surviving
bomber(s) each roll one die. The total rolled on the die (or dice)
is the number of IPCs the defender must immediately surrender
to the bank. If the owner of the bombed territory does not have
enough IPCs to cover the penalty, the owner surrenders as many
IPCs as he has to the bank. 
During the Non-combat Movement sequence, attacking fighter
planes and bombers that survived then return to a friendly base
within their movement range. 
Strategic Bombing Raid Example
On Germany’s turn, the German player announces a SBR against
Great Britain. The bomber in Germany flies to Great Britain,
and two fighters in France also move to the U.K. as escorts.
First, the British player fires the AA gun. Three dice are rolled,
one for each plane, resulting in a “1,” a “3,” and a “4.” The
AA gun scored one hit and Germany sacrifices fighter A. 
Next, the British player sends up a fighter in Great Britain. 
A “2” is rolled – another hit. The German player responds with
his remaining fighter and rolls a “3.” This would normally hit,
but in a SBR, fighters only attack with a “1.” (They defend with
a “2.”) The German player chooses fighter B as the casualty.
Although the British player has a fighter remaining, combat is
over since SBR combat is only one round. The German player
rolls one die for every bomber in the raid (in this case, one),
and rolls a “6.” The British player turns over 6 IPCs to the
bank. During the Non-combat Movement sequence, the German
bomber returns to Germany using its remaining three moves.
The Battle of the Atlantic 
Historical background: Great Britain, being an island nation,
had to import many of its war resources over great spans of
ocean. The United States imported and exported millions of
tons of resources via the oceans of the world. The Soviets also
relied on imports that were convoyed to its ports and factories.
Determined to undermine the Allies’ supply chain, German 
submarines and surface raiders attacked many of these convoys.
This was the Battle of the Atlantic. 
Convoy centers: Seven of the sea zones on the gameboard are
Convoy centers. There are four British Convoy centers, two U.S.
centers, and one Soviet center. These centers are where German
naval units may attack Great Britain, the Soviet Union and the
United States supply routes. Convoy centers are captured or
recaptured just like any land territory – a ship with a combat
value must move into and through an unoccupied center, or
move into and battle the enemy in an occupied center. Convoy
centers have IPC income numbers as shown on the gameboard.
IPCs are paid out as explained in Action Sequence 7 on page 19.
Note: Convoys are not to be confused with the transport of 
regular combat units. Those units are carried over the sea zones
on transport ships. 
Attacking unoccupied convoy centers: During the Combat
Movement sequence, submarines and ships (with an attack
value) may enter or pass through Convoy centers to take control 
of them. This is effortless if a Convoy center is unoccupied. 
A German control marker is then placed on the Convoy center 
(or removed if the Allies are liberating the Convoy center).
Attacking occupied Convoy centers: Just as an attacking force
may not automatically take control of a land territory when the
enemy is present, neither may a force automatically claim control
of a Convoy center when enemy ships are present. This requires
an attack. 
If all defending units are sunk and/or submerged, and the
attacker has at least one war ship remaining, then the 
attacker has retaken control of the Convoy center. (Submerged
submarines are considered gone from the sea zone for control
marker purposes.)
Note: Transports, as non-attacking sea units, may not take 
control of Convoy centers by themselves, but may certainly 
be part of a mixed sea unit force.
A
B

Placement of control markers: Placing control markers in a
Convoy center is similar to placing them in land territories. 
If Germany takes control of a Convoy center, it places a control
marker there. The former owner of the Convoy center loses the
indicated income and the National Production Chart is adjusted
accordingly. (Germany, however, does not receive that income
because the convoy is now considered sunk and unusable.) 
The Allied player will not regain this income until he (or another
Ally) returns to the unoccupied Convoy center or takes back an
occupied center by attacking. Upon retaking a Convoy center,
the German control marker is removed and the income chart 
for the original owner is readjusted upward. Germany’s income
stays the same.
Convoy Center Movement Example
The German player moves four naval units during Germany’s turn.
A German sub in the Central Atlantic moves into the United
States’ Convoy center. Another German sub in the Azores Sea
moves into a British Convoy Center and back out to its original
zone. A German destroyer moves through a British Convoy center
and into the Azores. A German transport in the Central Atlantic
moves through a Convoy center and into the South Atlantic.
However, because a transport has no attack value, it does not
take control of the Convoy center. The German player places
three German markers on the Convoy centers it now controls,
and the IPC chart is adjusted. The U.S. loses 4 IPCs in income,
while Great Britain loses 8. Germany’s income is not affected.
On the U.S. turn, the American player moves a destroyer from
the U.S. Coast sea zone through the Mid-Atlantic to the Convoy
center. Since the German sub is no longer there, the center is
liberated without combat. The German marker is removed and
Britain’s income is raised 5 IPCs. Meanwhile, the American
battleship moves into the U.S. Convoy center to battle the German
submarine there. The battleship misses, while the submarine
scores a hit. The battleship is turned on its side. On the next
round, both the battleship and submarine score hits. Both pieces
are removed. Since there is no American piece left in the zone
to reclaim the Convoy center, it remains under German control.
Complex Battle of the Atlantic Example
On Germany’s turn, the German player moves 2 subs from the
Bay of Biscay into the Celtic Sea, attacking the two British
ships there. The subs have first-strike capability and fire two
shots by rolling a “1” and a “2” – both hits. The British player
immediately removes the transport and the aircraft carrier from
the board. The plane may not attack the subs and has only one
space to land, so it flies to Great Britain.
On Great Britain’s turn, the two destroyers in the Atlantic move
down into the Celtic Sea (along with the fighter that landed in
Great Britain) to attack the two subs. One destroyer hits and
the other misses. The fighter misses with a “6.” Germany chooses
to submerge one sub (the unhit one), and fire back with the
other sub, since it is lost after this turn. The sub rolls a “1” and
one British destroyer is removed. Since the other submarine is
submerged, the battle is over. 
During Non-Combat Movement, Britain flies the fighter out to
the aircraft carrier in the Mid-Atlantic. That carrier may not move
for the rest of the turn since a fighter landed on it during the
turn. Germany turns its sub upright at the end of Britain’s turn.

The Soviet Patriotic War
Throughout the war, the Soviet Union operated with a degree 
of independence from its Allies. U.S. and British equipment 
on Soviet soil was often controlled by Russians troops. This is 
simulated in the game as follows:
On his Non-Combat Movement sequence, the Soviet player
checks for any units belonging to the U.S. or British that are
currently in Soviet territories (colored red or light purple). If the
Soviet player so chooses, he may take these units out of play
and replace them with the Soviet equivalent. Although the
Soviet player now controls these units, they may not be moved
until the Soviet player’s next turn. Although the Soviet player
should discuss this maneuver with his Allies, he doesn’t have to.
Even if the Soviet player moves these units to Allied territories,
they remain Soviet units for the remainder of the game. 
Note: Of course, U.S. and British infantryman were not brain-
washed into becoming Russians but, rather, Allied equipment
and weapons were used to equip Russian soldiers.
Soviet Patriotic War Example
On Great Britain’s turn, the British player flies two fighters into
Soviet territories – one to Leningrad and the other to the Baltic
States. On the Soviet player’s next turn (during the Non-Combat
Movement sequence), he decides that the plane in Leningrad
should become Russian. After a quick discussion, the Soviet
player takes control of the fighter in Leningrad. The Soviet
player removes the British plane from the board and replaces 
it with a Soviet plane. The new Soviet fighter may not be moved
on this turn and will remain Soviet for the rest of the game,
even if it leaves Soviet territory. 
SEQUENCE 4
During the U. S. turn, the American player flies a fighter across
the Atlantic and into the Celtic Sea. Since there is an enemy
submarine there, as well as a friendly destroyer, the fighter may
attack the sub. The American player rolls a “5,” missing the sub.
The British destroyer is not allowed to attack, since it is the
United States’ turn. However, the German sub may defend, and
does, rolling a “2” for a hit. Since subs may not attack planes,
the British destroyer must take the hit and it is removed. Britain
is not pleased.
Now that only a sub and a fighter remain, neither may attack
the other and the battle is over. The fighter completes its
transatlantic flight, landing in Great Britain.
NON-COMBAT MOVEMENT
1. Any air units that were involved in the Combat Movement
sequence are considered still in the “air” and must now “land”
in a friendly territory within range. Remember that part of a
fighter’s four-space range and a bomber’s six-space range has
already been used up during Combat Movement.
2. You may also move any, all or none of your units that you did
not move during the Combat Movement sequence. These move-
ments help you prepare strong offensive or defensive positions,
strengthen vulnerable territories, or reinforce units at the front.
Land units may be moved into any friendly territories, occupied
or unoccupied within range. They may not be moved into enemy-
occupied, enemy-controlled, or neutral territories. Antiaircraft
guns may also be moved into friendly territories at this time.
AA guns in territories captured on a turn may not be moved on
the same turn.
Naval units may be moved into any friendly sea zone, occupied
or unoccupied within range. They may not be moved into enemy-
occupied sea zones or enemy-controlled Convoy centers. Transports
moved to (or already in) sea zones next to friendly coastal territories
may load or unload cargo there.
Air units may be moved into any friendly territories, occupied
or unoccupied within range. Fighters (but not bombers) may fly
out to land on any friendly aircraft carrier within range. Air
units may not land in enemy-occupied, enemy-controlled, or
neutral territories. They may not land in territory just captured
during your turn. Air units may not fly over neutral territories.
Air units flying over countries with AA guns are not shot at
during Non-Combat Movement.

SEQUENCE 5
PLACE NEW UNITS
Land and Air units acquired during the Purchase Units
sequence are now placed in the territory(s) with an Industrial
Complex that you have controlled since the start of your turn.
Newly purchased fighter planes may not be placed directly on
aircraft carriers.
Naval units acquired during the Purchase Units sequence are
now placed in sea zones adjacent to the territory(s) with an
Industrial Complex that you have controlled since the start of
your turn. If enemy ships also occupy these sea zones, combat
will occur during the Resolve Combat sequence of your enemy’s
turn (unless your enemy moves away during the Combat
Movement sequence).
You may place as many units as you like in your home territory.
You may not place more units in a captured territory with an
Industrial Complex than the IPC income of that territory.
Canada 
Great Britain has the option of placing some or all of its purchased
air and land units in Canada. It may also place purchased naval
units in the sea zone adjacent to Canada. These represent Canadian
units involved in the war. 
Place New Units Example
Germany purchased a fighter, two armor units, and two submarines
at the start of the turn. Germany has also controlled Leningrad
since the start of the turn. At the end of Germany’s turn, the
German player places one unit in Leningrad, since Leningrad
has a Soviet Industrial Complex with an IPC income of 1. The
two tanks are placed in Germany and the two subs are placed in
the Danish Sea. There is a British destroyer in the Danish Sea,
which means that the subs and the destroyer may engage in
combat on Great Britain’s turn (unless the British player moves
the destroyer during his Combat Movement sequence).
SEQUENCE 6
SEQUENCE 7
At the start of his turn, the Soviet player purchased seven
infantry units. At the end of his turn, he places two infantry
units in Archangel, four in Moscow, and one in Stalingrad. 
The Soviet player is not limited by the IPC income of these
areas since they are Soviet territories.
SUBMERGED SUBMARINES RESURFACE.
DAMAGED BATTLESHIPS ARE UPRIGHTED.
All submarines and battleships that were tipped on their sides
are now turned upright on the gameboard.
COLLECT INCOME
This is the last part of your turn. Collect IPCs from the bank
based on your current income level, as shown on the National
Production Chart (NPC). This chart must be maintained to 
indicate the current amount of IPCs for each country, including
income payable to the German player for territories captured 
in the Middle East. 
The Middle East
The territories of the Middle East (shown in yellow on the
gameboard) operate differently from other land territories. The
Middle East consists of independent countries that provide oil
and other resources to the Allied forces. During the game,
Germany has a chance to control this oil (and the IPCs) by 
taking over these territories. They are captured or liberated 
like any other land territory, but the IPCs of this region are
tracked differently. 
Adjusting IPCs: Whenever Germany captures a Middle East
country with an IPC value, the marker on the separate Middle
East column (on the left of the NPC) is adjusted. The rest of 
the chart is unaffected.
There are eight positions on the Middle East column representing
IPC totals. During Action Sequence 7 – Collect Income, near 
the end of Germany’s turn , Germany receives the Middle East
IPCs directly from the Allies, not from the bank. The Allies 
must decide among themselves who will pay Germany. The costs
may be spread out among the Allies, or one country may bear
the burden. If the Allies are unable to decide who pays, Germany
will choose! 

Example: If Germany controlled Egypt (with an IPC value of 1)
and Trans-Jordan (with an IPC value of 2), then Germany’s
Middle East column on the National Production chart would
have a German marker on 3. At the end of Germany’s turn, the
Allies would have to pay Germany 3 IPCs in addition to the money
that Germany receives from the bank. 
Note: The loss of Middle Eastern countries does not lower the
Allied players’ income on the chart. 
Middle East Movement Example
Here, Germany already controls Egypt. The Middle East IPC
marker is on 1. On Germany’s turn, an infantry and artillery
unit move into Syria while an armor unit moves two spaces into
Trans-Jordan. After the battle, Germany has captured both 
territories. The marker on the Middle East column is moved
from 1 to 4. At the end of Germany’s turn, the Allies will have
to give the German player 4 IPCs in addition to the income
Germany receives from the bank. The U.S. agrees to pay Germany 3
IPCs, while Great Britain pays Germany 1 IPC. The Soviet
Union, which has German units approaching from the south,
pays nothing.
COMBAT UNITS
Understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the various combat
units is one of the keys to victory. A detailed description of each
unit is listed below. 
Note: The attack and defense factors listed with each unit pertain
to the number you must roll on a die to score a hit. 
Antiaircraft (AA) guns are special land units that help defend 
a land territory against air attacks. AA guns are neutral-colored
and are taken over when located in a territory captured by the
enemy. They may fire once at any enemy plane flying over that
territory during the Combat Movement sequence.
AA guns do not attack like infantry, tanks or artillery. They 
also may not be moved into an enemy-occupied territory as an
attacking land unit. AA guns may be moved to friendly land 
territories and may be transported to friendly coastal territories 
or islands by naval transports. AA guns that are carried into 
an allied territory remain in the possession of the country that
moved them there. This ownership can be shown by placing a
National Control Marker underneath the piece. AA guns in a
captured territory may not be moved in the same turn that the
territory is captured. 
An AA gun in any Middle East territory that’s controlled by the
Allies may be moved by any of the Allies. However, it can only
be moved once per round.
Important: When air units fly over an enemy territory on which
an AA gun is positioned, the AA gun gets to fire first. Here’s how:
• The AA gunner rolls one die for each attacking aircraft. (Dice
are rolled together after all planes have flown over or into the
territory.) For each “1” that is rolled, one plane is shot down
and removed (owner’s choice). The planes removed have no
chance to counterattack. 
• No matter how many AA guns are in a territory, only one die
per aircraft is rolled for that territory. 
• During the Non-Combat Movement sequence, enemy aircraft
moving over a territory protected by an AA gun may not be
fired upon by the AA gun. 
Attack factor: none
Defense factor: 1 (only against enemy aircraft)
Cost: 5 IPCs

Anti-Aircraft Guns Example
Germany is invading Stalingrad with an armor unit. Germany
also sends two fighter planes from East Poland for support.
There is an AA gun in Belorussia, which is currently under
Soviet control. As the fighters fly over Belorussia, the Soviet
player rolls two dice, one for each plane, hoping to roll “1s.”
The Soviet player rolls a “5” and a “1,” scoring one hit. 
Fighter A is removed from the board. Fighter B arrives in
Stalingrad with the tank, where there are two AA guns under
Soviet control. The Soviet player rolls one die for the plane 
(you only roll one die per plane no matter how many AA Guns
are present), and rolls a “4,” a miss. Combat then continues,
and the lone Soviet infantry unit is wiped out.
During the Non-combat Movement sequence, fighter B returns to
East Poland. Since this is non-combat movement, the AA gun in
Belorussia may not fire at the plane. The two AA guns in Stalingrad
are now under German control. They will be used by the German
player to hold off any Allied attack to reclaim the Soviet city.
Industrial Complexes are special land units that do not attack,
defend, or move. They may not be built or destroyed during the
game. Industrial Complexes serve as a gateway for introducing
new combat units onto the gameboard. 
Combat units purchased during Action Sequence 1 may be placed
on the gameboard during Action Sequence 5, but only in territories
with Industrial Complexes that the player has controlled since
the beginning of that turn. If you start a turn in control of an enemy
territory with an Industrial Complex, you may place units in that
territory during Action Sequence 5. However, you may only place
as many units there as indicated by the IPC value of the territory. 
Example: If you control the enemy territory of Stalingrad at
the beginning of a turn, you may only place one of your units 
in Stalingrad at the end of your turn because the IPC value of
Stalingrad is 1. Like antiaircraft guns, Industrial Complexes
are neutral-colored and may fall into enemy hands. 
Land Units
There are three types of land combat units – infantry, artillery
and armor. These units may only participate in land battles, 
and only these units may capture a land territory. Land units
cost less than other kinds of units. Each has its own strengths
and weaknesses. 
Infantry units are a good buy for a defensive position because
each costs only 3 IPCs, and they defend with a die roll of “2” or less. 
Armor cost more than infantry, yet they still defend with a die
roll of “2” or less. Therefore, as defensive land units, armor
are the weaker choice. But as attacking land units, armor are
definitely more powerful than infantry. They also have more
mobility. They attack with a die roll of “3” or less instead of the
weaker infantry attack capability of “1.” 
You may move a tank through two territories, if the first territory
is a friendly territory. However, if the first territory is enemy-
controlled, but not enemy-occupied, your tank may “blitz”
through it. This is described as follows:
Attack factor: 1 (increases to 2 or less with artillery support)
Cost: 3 IPCs
Movement: 2 land territories per turn
Cost: 5 IPCs
Movement: 0
Attack factor: 0
Defense factor: 0
Cost: N/A

The Blitz:
1. Move the tank into the unoccupied enemy territory.
2. Place a control marker on the territory.
3. Adjust the National Production Chart to show the change.
4. Move the tank into the second territory. The second territory
may be an enemy-occupied territory, an enemy-controlled 
territory, or a friendly territory. 
A blitzing tank may also move into the first territory and back
to its starting territory on the same turn. 
Note: An enemy-controlled territory with nothing but AA guns
is still considered occupied, and may not be blitzed through.
However, during the Resolve Combat sequence, a tank which
moved into the territory automatically takes control of the 
territory without rolling dice.
Artillery units attack with a die roll of “2” or less, and defend
with a die roll of “2” or less. However, for every artillery unit
brought into battle by an attacker, one infantry unit also attacks
with a die roll of “2” or less (instead of just “1”). This pairing
is on a one-to-one basis. For example, two artillery units attacking
with six infantry units would only increase the attack value of
two infantry units. The final attack numbers would be four “2s”
and four “1s.” There are no dice roll adjustments made when
artillery and infantry units are defending together.
Artillery Movement Example
The Soviet Union is bringing two infantry units and one
artillery unit into Rumania to attack the two German units
there. The Soviet artillery unit attacks, as does one of the
infantry units, both hoping for a roll of “2” or less. The other
infantry unit attacks, hoping for a “1,” as there is no other
artillery unit to pair up with it. The German infantry and
artillery units both defend, hoping to roll a “2” or less. 
Land Movement Example
Attack factor: 2 or less (and boosts infantry unit to 2 or less)
Cost: 4 IPCs

A German infantry unit and a German artillery unit both move
one territory, from Poland to the Baltic States. The German armor
unit performs a blitz, moving through East Poland, a Soviet
territory that is currently empty. The German tank captures
East Poland without a fight and may join its fellow units for the
battle in the Baltic States.
Air Units
There are two types of air units – fighters and bombers. Air
units may not capture territories, but may enter combat and
then return to a friendly territory. Air units are the only units
able to attack and defend both in land territories and sea zones. 
Bombers may fly the farthest, but they cost more than fighters.
Bombers that fly out to attack during Combat Movement, must
land during Non-combat Movement. Bombers may also conduct
Strategic Bombing Raids. (See page 15.) They may not do both
on one turn.
Bombers must land in a friendly land territory (including an
island) within range. They may not land in territories you just
captured, nor may they land on aircraft carriers. Bombers may
not be sent on “suicide runs” where they go into combat with no
place to land afterward.
Fighters are very strong defensively, although they have a limited
flying range of four spaces. Fighters that fly out to attack during
Combat Movement (Action Sequence 2), must land during Non-
combat Movement (Action Sequence 4). Fighters may escort
friendly bombers or attack enemy air units during Strategic
Bombing Raids. (See page 15.) 
Following are some additional fighter rules:
• Fighters on an island may not defend an embattled sea zone
next to them because an island is a separate territory.
• Fighters may not be sent on “suicide runs” where they go into
combat with no place to land afterward. However, fighters
may be sent on “risky” missions. These are combat movements
that need an aircraft carrier to move (or survive) in order to
land. If, during combat, the aircraft carrier is lost, then the
fighters must finish their movements by landing in another
safe territory or carrier within range. If unable to do this, 
the fighters are lost. 
• If you move a fighter its full four-space range into battle with
the intent of landing it on a carrier in that battle, then you
may not later decide to retreat with other units. If you do
retreat your other units, the plane is destroyed. It may not
land on the carrier when the carrier retreats.
• Only fighters may land and take off from aircraft carriers. 
No more than two fighters are allowed on an aircraft carrier.
If a fighter on a carrier wants to take off and attack, it must
do so from where the carrier is positioned at the start of its
turn. When taking off from a carrier, do not count the carrier’s
sea zone as one space. 
Note: There are other special rules for fighter planes aboard
aircraft carriers. These rules are explained in the Aircraft
Carriers section on page 24.
BOMBERS
Movement: 6 land and/or sea zones per turn
Attack factor: 4 or less
Defense factor: 1
Cost: 25 IPCs
FIGHTERS
Movement: 4 land and/or sea zones per turn
Defense factor: 4 or less
Cost: 12 IPCs

Air Movement Example
Four different British air units are being moved during the Non-
combat Movement sequence of a turn. A fighter on the aircraft
carrier travels one move into the Azores Sea (fighters leaving 
a carrier do not count the carrier’s sea zone as one move), then
three more moves, landing in Algeria. The territory in which the
plane lands counts as one move.
The fighter in Great Britain travels one move into the Celtic
Sea. Planes leaving a continent or island must use one movement
to travel into a sea zone. The fighter then travels three moves,
landing in Gibraltar. The bomber in Great Britain uses all six 
of its movements to travel to Tunisia. 
The fighter in Malta uses three of its movements to travel to
Sardinia – one to enter the Sicilian Sea, one to move to the
Tyrrhenian Sea, and a third to land on Sardinia. Note that the
British captured Algeria, Tunisia, and Sardinia before the start
of this turn, allowing Britain’s planes to land in these territories.
Naval Units
There are five types of naval units including aircraft carriers,
battleships, destroyers, submarines, and transports. Naval units
may move either 1 or 2 sea zones per turn. Each type of ship
has its own strengths. 
Aircraft carriers have strong defense capabilities. They may
attack and defend only in sea zones. 
Aircraft carriers may carry (or provide landing spots) for up 
to two Allied fighter planes. Allied fighter planes may take off
and land on a friendly aircraft carrier on their respective turns.
Aircraft carriers may be moved during the Non-combat Movement
sequence to allow fighters to land on them when they would 
otherwise be out of range. 
Aircraft carriers and fighter planes “interact” with each other
somewhat differently depending upon whether or not it is the
carrier’s turn:
If you own the carrier and it is your turn: You must own the fighter
aboard your aircraft carrier in order to move the fighter and/or
attack with it. It must also take off before you move the carrier.
If the fighter doesn’t take off before you move the carrier, the
fighter is treated as cargo for the remainder of your turn and
may not fly, fight or be used as a casualty. An Allied fighter on
your carrier may not take off, as it is not the Allied fighter’s turn.
If a fighter lands upon your aircraft carrier during your turn,
you may not move the carrier for the remainder of that turn. 
Attack factor: 1
Defense factor: 3 or less
Cost: 18 IPCs
Cargo capacity: Maximum of 2 fighters

If you own the carrier and it is the enemy’s turn: If your carrier
is defending against an attack, any fighters aboard are allowed
to defend, and may be used as casualties instead of the carrier
(except against a successful submarine attack). If your carrier
is destroyed, your fighters may move up to one space to find a
friendly carrier, island or territory on which to land. The landing
site must have been controlled by you (or under Allied control)
since the beginning of the turn. If your fighters don’t find a safe
place to land, they are considered destroyed.
Aircraft Carrier Movement Example
The U.S. player wants to move an aircraft carrier from the
Celtic Sea into the Bay of Biscay to attack the German naval
force there. A U.S. fighter plane joins the attack by flying to
the Bay of Biscay ahead of the carrier. The British fighter
aboard may not move, as it is not Britain’s turn. It is treated 
as cargo for the turn. 
On the first round, the carrier rolls a “6,” missing, but the
fighter rolls a “2,” scoring a hit. Germany must select a casualty.
Since a fighter may not attack a submarine without a destroyer
present, Germany must select the transport as a casualty. The
two infantry units aboard are also lost. Germany returns fire
with the transport and misses with a “2.” However, the sub hits
with a “2.” Since a sub may never attack a plane, the American
player must select the carrier as a casualty. The British fighter
aboard is lost as well.
In the second round, only the American fighter and the German
sub remain. Since subs and fighters may not attack the other,
the battle is over and the fighter must find a place to land. The
fighter has only moved one space, so it could fly to Great Britain.
However, it chooses to land on the British aircraft carrier.
On Germany’s turn, the submarine moves into the Azores Sea 
to attack the British carrier. With its first-strike capability, the
sub manages to sink the carrier. (The carrier must be selected
as a loss against a sub attack.) The two fighters are considered
to be defending in the air, but may not attack the sub. They must
now find a place to land that is one space away. Since there 
is only water and neutral territory one space away, both Allied
fighters are lost into the Atlantic.
Battleships attack and defend in sea zones. These powerful 
(and expensive) ships attack and defend with a die roll of “4”
or less, and must be hit twice in the same battle to be destroyed.
On the first hit, the ship is laid on its side. It may still attack
and defend normally. If hit a second time, the ship is removed.
If it does not receive a second hit, it is considered repaired 
and turned upright at the end of the turn. 
Battleships may also support attacks on enemy occupied coastal
territories or islands. (See Amphibious Assaults section on page 13
for details.) 
BATTLESHIPS
Attack factor: 4 or less
Defense factor: 4 or less
Cost: 24 IPCs

Submarines attack and defend in sea zones. They are relatively
inexpensive, but they only attack and defend with a die roll of
“2” or less.
Following are a variety of rules pertaining to submarines:
• Attacking submarines have a deadly first-strike capability
that is negated only by the presence of an enemy destroyer.
Defending submarines do not have a first-strike capability.
• Air units may not attack a submarine unless a friendly
destroyer is also present in the battle. Submarines may never
attack or defend against air units. (But they may submerge.)
• Submarines are the only defending units in the game that
may retreat and withdraw from battle. 
• If a submarine successfully attacks an aircraft carrier, 
a fighter plane aboard the carrier may not be chosen as 
the casualty. 
• If an Allied player attacks a German submarine while other
Allied naval units are present in the same sea zone – and the
German sub successfully returns fire – then the Allies may
chose any one of their ships as the casualty.
• Both attacking and defending submarines may submerge to
escape combat. They may do so in the same sea zone during
the same battle. A submerged sub is turned onto its side to
indicate this submerged condition. It remains on its side and
may not attack or be attacked again this turn. Submerged
subs are returned to their upright position in Action Sequence 6.
• Submerged submarines are not considered to be present in a
sea zone in which they are submerged. Therefore, transports
may move into or through that zone and load/unload during
the Non-combat Movement sequence.
German Submarines vs. Allied Ships
If one of the Allies attacks a German submarine while other
Allied naval units are present in the same sea zone, the combined
Allied forces may chose any one of their ships as a casualty 
if the sub successfully returns fire.
Example
Great Britain’s turn: The British attack a German sub that then
submerges. At the end of the British player’s turn, the sub
resurfaces among the British ships.
United States’ turn: During the Combat Movement sequence, the U.S.
moves into the same sea zone as the German sub and attacks it.
Following the U.S. attack on the submarine, the sub may do
either one of the following:
A. If the sub was hit, it may still take a “parting shot” at the
Allied ships present. 
(or)
B. If the sub was not hit, it may either submerge again or fire back.
Either way, the combined Allied forces must chose one of their
ships as a casualty should the sub have a successful hit.
Submarine Movement Example
The German player rolls two dice, hoping for a “2” or lower.
The roll is two “2s”– two hits! The U.S. player tips his battleship
on its side, showing it has taken one hit. He then selects the
destroyer as a casualty, moving it into the Casualties area.
Because of the destroyer present, these hits are not “first shots.”
The U.S. player rolls two dice, hoping for a “3” for the
destroyer and a “4” for the battleship. The destroyer misses
with a “5,” but the battleship hits with a "4." Germany loses 
a submarine. 
SUBMARINES
Attack factor: 2 or less (and special “first-strike” ability – see pg 10)
Cost: 8 IPCs

In the second round, the German submarine now gets a first shot
because there is no longer a destroyer in the battle. The sub
misses with a roll of a “5.” The battleship counterattacks, but misses
with a “6.” Not wishing to push his luck, the German player decides
to submerge the remaining submarine and tips it on its side. 
With the sub submerged, the battle is over. At the end of the
German player’s turn, both the submarine and the battleship
are uprighted. On the United States’ turn, the combat will resume
in this sea zone unless the American moves the battleship out
during the Combat Movement sequence.
Destroyers attack and defend in sea zones. They may also support
attacks on enemy-occupied coastal territories or islands. (See
Amphibious Assaults section on page 13 for details.) Destroyers
are particularly effective against submarines. They eliminate an
attacking submarine’s first-strike ability and also allow friendly
air units to attack enemy submarines. 
If all destroyers in a battle are taken as casualties, then fighter
planes lose the ability to attack submarines, and submarines
regain their first-strike capability, if applicable.
A transport may carry land units across sea zones to other land
territories and unload them there. A transport may hold one
armor unit, or two of any other land unit (including AA guns) 
in any combination.
Transports unload into a friendly territory during the Non-combat
Movement sequence. When transports unload into an enemy 
territory during the Combat Movement sequence, it is called 
an Amphibious Assault. (See page 13.)
A transport may move 0, 1 or 2 sea zones, and unload its land
unit(s) in the same move. The land unit(s) may be picked up before,
during or after the transport moves. During play, units being
transported are placed with the transport directly in the sea zone.
Example: A transport could pick up one infantry unit, move one
zone and pick up an antiaircraft unit, move into another zone
and unload both units in the same move.
Transports may also pick up 2 units from 2 different territories
that are adjacent to the same sea zone. The units do not have 
to be unloaded either – a transport could move up to 2 sea
zones and remain at sea with the cargo aboard. However, once 
a transport unloads, its move is over. It also may not unload 
in two different locations during the same turn, even if the 
locations both share the same sea zone. Transports do not have 
to unload all of their cargo when unloading.
Transports may also carry Allied land units, but this is a three-
step process. 
1. The Allied units must board on the Allied unit’s turn.
2. Then, they move (or stay in place) with the transport on 
the transport owner’s turn.
3. Finally, they are unloaded on the Allied unit’s next turn. 
Following are additional rules pertaining to transports and the
units aboard:
• Units may load and unload on the same turn, only if the units
are from the same country as the transport, and that the
transport has not been in combat that turn. 
• Moving a land unit into and out of a transport counts as that
land unit’s full move. The land unit may not move to additional
territories after landing, nor may it move to a territory and
then board a transport on the same turn.
• A transport may not load or unload its cargo directly to or
from another transport.
• A transport that starts a turn with enemy ships in the same
sea zone may not load or unload in that sea zone. It may
move out of an enemy-filled sea zone and into a friendly or
empty zone, where it may load or unload normally. A transport
that moves in this way is not considered to have been in 
combat this turn.
DESTROYERS
Defense factor: 3 or less
Cost: 12 IPCs
TRANSPORTS
Attack factor: 0
Defense factor: 1
Cost: 8 IPCs
Cargo capacity: 2 land units 
(any combination except with armor units)

• A transport that has been in combat may load OR unload
after combat, but not both. It may not move.
• A transport must unload all units into the same territory. 
It may not split units into two territories.
• Transports may not attack but may defend in sea zones. 
• Any land units aboard a transport that is attacked may not
fire back. If the transport is destroyed, the land units aboard
also “go down with the ship” and are removed.
Transport Movement Example
On Britain’s turn, it uses several transports. The transport 
next to Canada picks up two Canadian infantry units, 
moves two zones to the Celtic Sea and unloads the two units 
into Great Britain. 
The two transports next to Denmark start their turn in the 
presence of an enemy destroyer. Neither may load nor unload 
in that zone, but both transports may move. One moves into the
English Channel, where it picks up two infantry units from two
different territories adjacent to the English Channel. It may
unload them on this same turn into the same territory (in this
case, Great Britain). The other transport moves into the North
Sea, along with a British destroyer, where a German sub awaits.
The destroyer sinks the sub, ending combat. 
Since the transport was in combat (but now has a clear sea
zone), it may unload or load units, but not both. An infantry
unit in Norway enters the transport but may not be unloaded
this turn. The transport may not move again this turn because 
it has been in combat.
We will be happy to hear your questions 
or comments about this game. 
Write to:
Avalon Hill c/o Hasbro Games, 
Consumer Affairs Dept., 
P.O. Box 200, Pawtucket, RI 02862. 
Tel: 888-836-7025 (toll-free). 
Customers in Canada may call 450-670-9820. 
Check us out on the Web: 
www.avalonhill.com
www.hasbro.com
© 1999 Avalon Hill Games, Inc., a Hasbro affiliate. 
© 1999 Hasbro, Pawtucket, RI 02862. All Rights Reserved. 
41313-I