©2024 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Wizards of the Coast and its logo are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC. Avalon Hill, 
Axis & Allies, and their respective logos are trademarks of Hasbro, Inc. and are used with permission. All Rights Reserved.
For additional information or support, please visit us online: www.renegadegames.com
 /PlayRGS 
 @PlayRenegade 
 @Renegade_Game_Studios 
 /RenegadeGameStudios
AXIS & ALLIES: GUADALCANAL
Game Design: Larry Harris
Game Development: Nate Heiss and Bill McQuillan
Additional Playtesting: Steve Warner, Mons Johnson, 
Gregory Marques, Rich Baker, Scott Larabee, Erik Lauer, 
Mike Turian, Frank Gilson, Graeme Hopkins, Alan Comer, 
and Courtenay Moore
Editing: Bill McQuillan and Kevin Chapman
Art Direction: Blake Beasley
Cover Illustration: Tommy Lee Edwards
Graphic Design: Scott Okumura
Cartography: Todd Gamble
Brand Management: Linda Cox, Laura Tommervik, 
and Brian Hart
Project Management: Neil Shinkle
Production Management: Bob Carrasca
Thanks to all of our project team members and the many 
others too numerous to mention who have contributed to 
this product.
HASBRO CREDITS
Team Hasbro: Elizabeth Artale, Paul Strickland, 
Tayla Reo, Brian Casentin, Christopher Troise, 
and Kaiser Ramos
RENEGADE GAME STUDIOS
President & Publisher: Scott Gaeta
Vice President Sales: Andrew Lupp
Controller: Robyn Gaeta
Director of Operations: Leisha Cummins
Associate Project Manager: Katie Gjesdahl
Sales Assistant: Sophia Gambill
E-Commerce: Nick Medinger
Marketing Manager: Jordan Gaeta
Marketing Assistant: Anais Morgan
Senior Producer, Board & Card Games: Dan Bojanowski
Associate Producer, Board & Card Games: Kane Klenko
Producer, RPGs: Kevin Schluter
Associate Producer, RPGs: Ben Heisler
Lead Developer, World of Darkness: Juhana Pettersson
Senior Game Designer: Matt Hyra
Game Designers: Dan Blanchett & Christopher Chung
Playtest Coordinator: Marcus E. Burchers
Director of Visual Design: Anita Osburn
Creative Director, Games: Jeanne Torres
Creative Director, RPGs: Sarah Robinson
Creative Production: Noelle Lopez & Gordon Tucker
Video Production Associate: Katie Schmitt
Customer Service Manager: Jenni Janikowski
Customer Service: Bethany Bauthues
Finance Clerk: Madeline Minervini

Object of the Game.............................................................................3
	
Summary of Play........................................................................3
	
How to Win................................................................................3
Game Components.............................................................................4
Game Setup..........................................................................................8
Units.......................................................................................................9
	
Land Units..................................................................................9
	
Sea Units...................................................................................10
	
Air Units...................................................................................13
Sequence of Play..............................................................................14
	
Phase 1: Movement..................................................................14
	
Phase 2: Combat.......................................................................16
	
Phase 3: Regroup......................................................................21
Appendix 1: Optional Rules.............................................................24
	
Advantage Tokens....................................................................24
	
Hidden Movement....................................................................25
Appendix 2: Battle Box Results Chart..........................................25
Appendix 3: Designer’s Notes.......................................................26
TABLE OF CONTENTS

It is August 1942 and Japan 
has occupied much of the 
Solomon Islands chain. The goals 
of the occupation are to protect 
the flank of the Japanese offensive 
in New Guinea, form a security 
barrier for the Japanese base at 
Rabaul, and interfere with Allied 
supply lines. The United States 
has just begun its counterattack 
with a surprise landing on 
Guadalcanal, capturing the 
under-construction airfield there, 
which will later be renamed 
Henderson Field.
Summary of Play
An Axis & Allies: Guadalcanal 
game generally lasts 4 to 6 turns. 
Each turn, the players alternate 
moving their units, one unit 
type at a time. Combat occurs in 
contested zones in three stages—
air, sea, and then land—in an 
attempt to seize control of the 
island zones and the all-important 
airfields. Finally, the players will 
call for reinforcements and build 
more airfields.
How to Win
The first player to reach 15 victory 
points wins. You earn victory 
points by controlling airfields 
and destroying capital ships 
(battleships and aircraft carriers).
OBJECT OF THE GAME
14+
2-3h

GAME COMPONENTS
1 Game Board
1 Rulebook
1 Storage Tray
1 Battle Box
12 Dice
2 Base Cards (Rabaul and New Caledonia)
2 Reference Charts
1 First-Player Token
2 Victory Point Markers
6 Control Markers
9 Airfield Markers
9 Damaged Markers
20 Supply Tokens
16 Advantage Tokens
70 Plastic Chips (10 red, 60 grey)
85 Total Allies Playing Pieces (green):
	 6 Battleships	
10 Transports	
10 Infantry
	 5 Aircraft Carriers	 8 Submarines	
7 Artillery
	 10 Destroyers	
8 Fighters	
6 Antiaircraft Guns
	 8 Cruisers	
7 Bombers

87 Total Axis Playing Pieces (brown):
	 6 Battleships	
10 Transports	
12 Infantry
	 5 Aircraft Carriers	 8 Submarines	
7 Artillery
	 10 Destroyers	
8 Fighters	
6 Antiaircraft Guns
	 8 Cruisers	
7 Bombers

Game Board
The game board is a map of the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific.
Route to Base
The United States and Japan have route-to-base zones on opposite 
ends of the game board. These sea zones connect with the waters on 
the appropriate base card.
Sea Zone
These are marked with the letters 
A through M for reference. Sea 
and air units can enter sea zones. 
Land units can enter sea zones 
only if they’re being carried by 
destroyers or transports.
Island Zone
Each of these has a name and 
an airfield capacity. For example, 
up to 2 airfields can be put on 
Guadalcanal. Controlling island 
zones will grant you more 
reinforcement points.
Victory Track
The first player to reach 15 victory points wins. You earn victory points 
by controlling airfields and destroying capital ships.

Base Cards (Rabaul and New Caledonia)
These serve as each country’s launching point for the Solomon Islands 
campaign. Each card represents a base that is much further away than a 
normal sea zone, but moving from its sea zone to its connecting route-
to-base sea zone on the board (or vice versa) takes just 1 movement. 
Your base also houses damaged units for repair and is where you place 
your reinforcements when you purchase them.
Airfield Markers
If you control the airfields, 
you control the war. Each undamaged 
airfield can hold up to 2 air units and is worth 1 victory 
point per turn.
Damaged Markers
Use these to indicate which airfields are damaged.
Supply Tokens
Use these for building and repairing airfields, 
repairing damaged sea units, and for expediting 
the deployment of reinforcements. They can be 
carried on destroyers and transports. Spent supply 
tokens are returned to the game box.
Control Markers
Use these during the final phase of each turn 
to indicate control of the island zones on the 
game board.
First-Player Token
The player who has this will move each type 
of unit first and will choose the order of zones 
when resolving combat.
Advantage Tokens
Use these for optional rules to add a 
twist to game play. (See page 24.)
7 Infantry
2 Destroyers
1 infantry unit
red chip (5 units)
grey chip (1 unit)
1 destroyer unit
grey chip (1 unit)
Battle Box and Dice
Use the battle box to determine 
the results of combat. Place the 12 
dice in the neck of the battle box, 
and then slide it in.
Plastic Chips
Use these to save space in 
overcrowded zones (or if you 
run out of a particular unit type 
or supply tokens). Putting a grey 
chip under a unit shows that there 
is an additional unit of that unit 
type in the zone. Putting a red chip 
under a unit shows that there are 
an additional five units of that unit 
type in the hex.
Example: A destroyer with 1 
grey chip under it counts as 2 
destroyers. An infantry with 
1 grey and 1 red chip under it 
counts as 7 infantry.

•	 Decide who will play the Axis 
and who will play the Allies. 
Sit on the appropriate side of 
the board.
•	 Give the Axis player the 
first-player token.
•	 Put your base card adjacent to 
your route-to-base zone(s).
•	 Put the victory-track markers 
on the victory tracks.
•	 Put 1 Allies airfield marker on 
Guadalcanal and 1 Axis airfield 
marker on Bougainville.
•	 Put an Allies control marker on 
Guadalcanal and Axis control 
markers on each of the other 
islands.
•	 Put units and supply tokens 
on the board and base cards 
as indicated by the printed 
silhouettes, using plastic chips 
as needed.
•	 Put the 12 dice into the battle box.
GAME SETUP
2 Destroyers
1 Cruiser
2 Transports

Land Units
Land units can attack only when in an island zone. They can be carried by transport or destroyer across sea zones.
Infantry
	
Axis: Japan	
	
Allies: United States
Infantry is the basic land unit of war. They are not effective against air and naval units but are key in capturing 
and controlling the disputed islands. It is easy to deploy a large number of infantry onto the battlefield.
Cost: 1
Artillery
	
Axis: Type 92 70mm Howitzer	
	
Allies: 105mm Howitzer
Artillery is the most powerful land unit in the Solomon Islands campaign. It can influence the tide of battle 
both on land and at sea.
Ranged Fire: May attack into 1 adjacent sea zone each turn during the Attack Sea Units step of Combat.
UNITS
This section includes detailed information for each 
unit in the game. Keep any units you aren’t using in 
your game box. Whenever a unit gets destroyed, put 
it back into the game box.
There are three categories of units in the game: 
land, sea, and air. Each unit type is defined by the 
following characteristics:
Cost: This number is the unit’s cost in reinforcement 
points.
Attack: This is how many dice a unit contributes to 
an attack against the indicated unit category (land, 
sea, and air). Also, land attack power is used to 
determine control of island zones.
Special Abilities: Some units have special abilities.

Antiaircraft Guns
	
Axis: 75mm type 88	
	
Allies: 90mm M1
Antiaircraft guns provide a powerful umbrella that helps protect your airfields and land units from aircraft assaults.
Air Attack: 3
Sea Units
Each sea unit can move 1 sea zone per Movement phase. They can never move into island zones.
Transport
	
Axis: Yamazuki Maru class	
	
Allies: Liberty Ship
Island warfare is all about the transports. Land troops can’t maneuver between islands without them. All the 
other ships and planes are there to make sure these key units can carry the war to the enemy.
Transportation: A transport has 2 spaces for transporting land units and supplies. Each unit or supply token 
takes up 1 space.
Submarine
	
Axis: Kaichu type	
	
Allies: Ray class
This unit has its own particular way of conducting war. These lone wolves can target specific sea units and 
cause great problems for an unsuspecting target.
Cost: 4

Torpedo Attack: After moving (or deciding not to move), a submarine makes a 1-die attack on the target of 
your choice in the same sea zone. This special attack happens during the Movement phase, so a unit damaged 
or destroyed by this attack will be removed from the zone before it can attack.
Destroyer
	
Axis: Fubuki class	
	
Allies: Johnston class
A naval task force with a good ratio of destroyers will always prove to be a deadly force. Intentionally limited 
in both land and air attack abilities—jobs best left to the cruisers and battleships—destroyers are the infantry in 
a world where the oceans are the battlefields.
Cost: 5
Makeshift Transport: A destroyer has 1 space for transporting a land unit or supply token.
Cruiser
	
Axis: Takao class	
	
Allies: Portland class
With the ability to participate in land, sea, and air battles, these warships will have a lasting impact on all three 
dimensions of this struggle.
Cost: 7
Sea Attack: 2
Ranged Fire: May attack into 1 adjacent island zone each turn during the Attack Land Units and/or Airfields 
step of Combat.

Aircraft Carrier (Capital Ship)
	
Axis: Akagi class	
	
Allies: Wasp class
Capable of transporting fighter aircraft to any island or sea zone on the battlefield, these capital ships are 
indeed the heart and soul of the fleet. Protect them well! 
Cost: 7
Flight Deck: Up to 2 fighters can land on a friendly aircraft carrier.
Capital Ship: Your opponent earns 1 victory point for destroying a capital ship.
Battleship (Capital Ship)
	
Axis: Kongo class	
	
Allies: Iowa class
These capital warships are the cornerstones of power. The presence of a battleship in a given sea zone will 
always signal the ultimate effort and center of activity.
Cost: 12
Sea Attack: 3
Land Attack: 2
Ranged Fire: May attack into 1 adjacent island zone each turn during the Attack Land Units and/or Airfields 
step of Combat.
Heavy Armor: Ignore the first hit on each battleship each turn (a roll of 1 or 2).
Capital Ship: Your opponent earns 1 victory point for destroying a capital ship.

Air Units
Fighters and bombers can move into and attack island zones or sea zones. They can land on undamaged 
airfields you control and on the land zone of your base card. Fighters can also land on your aircraft carriers.
Bomber
	
Axis: G4M2E Model 24J “Betty”	
	
Allies: B-17 Flying Fortress
Transporting powerful payloads over great distances, bombers can turn the tide of any battle—be it on land, 
sea, or air. They will be your powerful fist ready to strike where and when they are needed.
Cost: 5
Sea Attack: 2
Land Attack: 2
Range 3: Can move up to 3 zones during Movement and up to 3 zones during Regroup.
Fighter
	
Axis: A6M2 Zero-Sen “Zero”	
	
Allies: F-6 Hellcat
Land-based or flying off the decks of carriers, these weapons will dictate the terms of any engagement. In the 
end, these machines replaced ships as the dominant weapons of the time.
Cost: 3
Air Attack: 2
Range 2: Can move up to 2 zones during Movement and up to 2 zones during Regroup.

SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Axis & Allies: Guadalcanal is 
played in turns. A turn consists of 
3 phases, followed in order.
Turn Order
Phase 1: Movement
Phase 2: Combat
Phase 3: Regroup
Phase 1: Movement
In this phase, the players alternate 
moving their units by unit type. 
How an individual unit moves 
depends on whether it’s a sea, air, 
or land unit.
•	 Sea unit: May move 1 sea zone.
•	 Air unit: May move multiple 
zones, can move into sea and 
island zones, can move through 
zones that contain enemy units, 
and are considered to be “in the 
air” even if they don’t move.
•	 Land unit: May only be moved 
by transport or destroyer.
The sea zone on your base card 
is one move away from the route-
to-base sea zone(s) indicated on 
the board.
Movement Sequence
1. Load and Move Transports
2. Move Battleships
3. Move Aircraft Carriers
4. Move Cruisers
5. Load and Move Destroyers
6. Move and Attack with 
Submarines
7. Move Bombers
8. Move Fighters
For each step of the movement 
sequence, the first player 
completes that step for his or her 
own units, and then the other 
player does the same. Then go to 
the next step of the sequence.
When you finish a given step, let 
your opponent know it is his or 
her turn.
1. Load and Move Transports
You may load land units and 
supplies from adjacent island 
zones onto transports. Each 
transport has 2 spaces for 
transporting land units and 
supplies. Each unit or supply 
token, which may be loaded from 
different adjacent island zones, 
takes up 1 space.
Put the units you wish to load on 
a transport into the sea zone next 
to the transport. If you’re loading 
multiple transports in the same 
sea zone, indicate exactly how 
you’re splitting up the units and 
supplies among the transports. 
This is important in case any of 
the transports are destroyed and 
you need to determine which 
cargo is lost.
When you move a loaded transport 
to a different sea zone, keep the 
loaded units next to the transport.
Transports may not load 
after moving.
2. Move Battleships
Battleships don’t have any special 
movement rules. They can simply 
move 1 sea zone.
3. Move Aircraft Carriers
Any fighters that are loaded on 
the carrier move along with the 
carrier for free into the new zone 
it moves into.
4. Move Cruisers
Cruisers don’t have any special 
movement rules. They can simply 
move 1 sea zone.
5. Load and Move Destroyers
Load and move destroyers like you 
did transports, except destroyers 
have less space. Each destroyer has 
only 1 space for transporting a land 
unit or supply token.
6. Move and Attack with 
Submarines
A submarine attack is a special 
1-die attack on a sea unit of your 
choice in the zone the submarine is 
in. The submarine may make this 
attack even if it does not move, 
but it happens after you move, or 
declare that you’re not moving, 
the submarine. Choose a sea unit 
in the zone and roll the dice in the 
battle box. Apply the result of the 
first die in the box to the target you 
chose. Casualties are not removed 
until after all of your Submarines 
have attacked, so a damaged unit 
may be attacked again by another 
submarine. A battleship that 
ignores a hit from a submarine 

may not ignore another hit during 
the combat phase of the same turn 
(turn it on its side or mark it with 
a counter to indicate it has already 
done so). Read more about attacks 
and how they work on page 16.
7. Move Bombers
A bomber moves up to 3 zones.
8. Move Fighters
A fighter moves up to 2 zones.
Examples of Sea Movement
This battleship can’t move through New 
Georgia from sea zone I to sea zone G, because 
the island zone is between those zones. 
Likewise, a sea unit couldn’t move from sea 
zone C to sea zone H, and an air unit would 
have to move through Santa Isabel to get to 
sea zone H from sea zone C.
This cruiser moves 1 zone 
from the U.S. base card 
to sea zone J.
Example of Air Movement
You have a fighter on 
New Caledonia and 
you want to move it 
onto the game board. 
The first move is 
into the sea zone on 
the New Caledonia 
card, and the second 
is into sea zone J. 
Later in the turn, 
during the Regroup 
phase, the fighter can 
move another 2 zones 
to land, allowing 
it to land on your 
Guadalcanal airfield.

Phase 2: Combat
In this phase, resolve combat in each 
zone that contains opposing units.
Combat Sequence
1. Attack Air Units
2. Attack Sea Units
3. Unload Transports and 
4. Attack Land Units and/or 
Airfields
For each step of the combat 
sequence, the first player chooses 
the order in which zones are 
resolved. For details on how 
attacks are resolved, see “How to 
Attack” on the next page.
1. Attack Air Units
The first player attacks the 
opposing air units in the zone of 
his or her choice. Then the other 
player attacks the opposing air 
units in that zone. After both 
players have rolled their attacks, 
then remove the destroyed air 
units from the board. Repeat this 
process for each zone in which air 
units can be fired upon.
2. Attack Sea Units
Do what you did for air units 
in step 1, but this time for each 
sea zone in which sea units can 
be fired upon. Also, some sea 
units can be damaged instead 
of destroyed. Put them on the 
damaged area of their base cards 
at the same time you remove 
destroyed sea units.
Each artillery in an island zone 
may fire into only 1 adjacent 
sea zone each turn. The attacker 
must declare if the artillery is 
part of the attack for each sea 
zone adjacent to it (multiple 
artillery in the same zone may fire 
into different sea zones). Once 
declared as part of an attack on a 
sea zone, an artillery can’t attack 
another sea zone this turn (turn 
it on its side or mark it with a 
counter to indicate it has already 
done so).
3. Unload Transports and 
The first player may unload units 
and supply tokens from transports 
and destroyers onto adjacent 
island zones. A transport carrying 
2 units and/or supply tokens may 
unload them onto different island 
zones. The other player then does 
the same.
4. Attack Land Units and/or 
Airfields
Do what you did for air and sea 
units in steps 1 and 2, but this 
time for each island zone in which 
land units and/or airfields can be 
fired upon. For each of your air 
units and sea units participating in 
the attack (not land units), decide 
whether it will attack the enemy’s 
land units or airfields. It can’t 
attack both.
When attacking airfields, the 
attack is made with the combined 
attack power of each unit chosen 
to attack the airfields in the island 
zone. Ignore the unit types listed 
on the neck of the battle box when 
attacking airfields. Simply look 
at a number of dice in a row—
starting with the outside tip of the 
neck—equal to the attack power. 
For every 2 hits scored on those 
dice (a roll of 1 or 2) damage one 
enemy-controlled airfield in the 
zone. Place a damaged marker 
on the airfield marker to indicate 
that it is damaged (an airfield can 
never have more than 1 damaged 
marker).
Each cruiser or battleship may 
fire into only 1 adjacent island 
zone each turn. The attacker must 
declare if the cruiser or battleship 
is part of the attack for each island 
zone adjacent to it (multiple 
cruisers and/or battleships in the 
same zone may fire into different 
island zones). Once declared it as 
part of an attack on a island zone, 
a cruiser or battleship can’t attack 
another island zone this turn (turn 
it on its side or mark it with a 
counter to indicate it has already 
done so).

How to Attack
Use the following sequence for 
resolving attacks against each 
category of unit—air, sea, and land:
1. Determine Total Attack Power
2. Roll Dice in the Battle Box
3. Declare Your Hits
1. Determine Total Attack Power
Add up all the attack powers of 
the attacking units. That is your 
total attack power and determines 
how many dice you will be rolling 
for that attack.
Each unit has 3 attack numbers. 
Each number tells you how many 
dice it rolls against the indicated 
category of unit—land, sea, and air.
Example: A battleship has 
an air attack power of 1. This 
means it will add 1 die to your 
air attack against all the enemy 
air units in the same zone as 
the battleship. The battleship 
also has a sea attack power of 
3, so it will also add 3 dice to 
your attack against the enemy 
sea units in the same zone. 
Finally, the battleship has a land 
attack power of 2, so when it is 
time to attack land units in an 
adjacent island zone, you may 
add its 2 dice to your attack in 
that zone.
A battleship or cruiser may add its 
land attack power to an attack on 
1 adjacent island zone 
per turn. Similarly, an 
artillery in an island 
zone may add its sea 
attack power to an 
attack on 1 adjacent 
sea zone per turn. In 
either case, this may be 
done even if there are 
no friendly units in the 
attacked zone. Other 
units add their attack 
powers only to attacks 
in their own zones.
2. Roll Dice in the Battle Box
Make sure all 12 dice are in 
the battle box and the neck is 
fully inserted. Shake the box to 
randomize the dice, tilt the box 
slightly downward, and then pull 
the neck out. The dice will come 
out in a straight line in the neck.
If you have an attack of greater 
than 12 dice, you’ll need to use 
the box again until you have 
rolled enough dice.

3. Declare Your Hits
Starting with the first die at the 
tip of the neck, check a number of 
dice in a row equal to the power 
of the attack. Each die result of 1 
or 2 is a hit. The inside of the neck 
of the box is numbered to make 
this easier.
Tell your opponent which specific 
unit types are hit by reading them 
off from slot 1 and counting up. 
To do this, look at the outside 
portion of the neck of the box 
where your hit is positioned. Then 
read off the unit type indicated on 
that slot for the category of unit 
you are attacking (air, sea, or land).
Hitting Units the Enemy 
Doesn’t Have
During an attack, it’s possible 
you’ll hit a unit type your 
opponent doesn’t have in that 
zone or a type for which all units 
in that zone have already been 
destroyed. In that case, the hit still 
counts, but it will hit a different 
unit type in that category.
To find out what it hits, look at 
the unit types listed on the neck 
of the battle box. Starting with the 
unit listed for slot 1, look to see 
if there is an undestroyed enemy 
unit of that type present in the 
zone. If so, the hit goes to that 
unit. Keep reading up the neck 
from slot to slot until you reach a 
type of unit in that zone that can 
take the hit.
Example: You are attacking 
sea units with 12 dice, and your 
opponent has 2 destroyers, 1 
cruiser, and 1 battleship in the 
zone you’re attacking. You 
score a hit on a transport, which 
your opponent doesn’t have in 
that zone. This hit will go to a 
destroyer, because it’s the first 
unit type listed on the neck of 
the box that your opponent has. 
Battle Box Example
Let’s say you attack with a total attack power of 8, and you are firing at air units. You get this roll:
Since it is an attack with 8 dice, you only need to pay 
attention to the first 8 dice in the neck of the box.
The first hit was with the first die rolled! Look at the 
neck of the box in the slot where that hit is located. 
There are three units listed there: fighter, destroyer, 
and infantry. Since you are firing at air units, this hit 
is going to be on a fighter. Let your opponent know 
about it so he will remove it from the board after 
firing at air is finished.
This hit is also on a fighter.
This hit is on a bomber! Nice shooting.

Loss of Cargo
If a transport or destroyer gets hit, 
the units and supply tokens it was 
carrying are destroyed.
If a carrier gets hit, the fighters 
that were on it are not destroyed. 
They stay in that sea zone but will 
need to find a new place to land 
during the Regroup phase.
When assigning hits, on a result 
of a 2 the defender chooses 
which unit of the appropriate 
type actually takes the hit. On 
a 1, the attacker chooses. This 
is important in cases involving 
multiple transports or destroyers 
carrying different units. However, 
if there are multiple battleships 
involved, 1 hit will be ignored 
for each one before any hits are 
assigned to them.
Example: You make an attack 
and roll a 1 in the transport slot 
of the dice box. Your opponent 
has 2 transports in the zone. 
One of them has no units on it, 
and the other has 2 supplies. 
You can now choose to assign 
the hit to the one with 2 supplies 
because you rolled a 1. If it was 
a 2, the opponent could have it 
go to the empty transport.
Damaging and Destroying Units
Most units in the game are destroyed 
on any hit of a 1 or 2. When a unit 
is destroyed, you remove it from the 
board at the end of the combat step 
in that particular zone.
Destroyers, cruisers, battleships, 
and aircraft carriers have the 
ability to sustain damage but not 
be completely destroyed. If any of 
these units are hit by a roll of a 1, 
then they are destroyed just like 
any other unit. However, if they are 
hit by a roll of a 2, then instead of 
being destroyed, they are damaged.
When a unit is damaged, instead of 
returning it to the game box when 
you are removing casualties, place 
it on the damaged area of your 
home base card. This represents 
the unit returning for repairs. The 
unit will remain there until you 
spend 1 supply token during the 
Regroup phase to repair it.
When a unit is damaged in combat, 
it is still possible for it to be 
destroyed during the same attack. 
If the damaged unit is hit with a 
second hit (be it 2 or 1), then it 
is destroyed. Hits are applied to 
undamaged units before damaged 
ones, so this will only happen 
when all the other units of the same 
type as the damaged unit have also 
been damaged or destroyed.

Example of a Sea Attack
You are making a 10-power attack in 
a sea zone containing the following 
enemy sea units: 2 destroyers, 1 cruiser, 
1 battleship, and 2 transports. One of 
the transports has a supply token and 1 
artillery on it, and one of the destroyers 
is carrying 1 infantry.
You shake up the battle box and roll:
Okay, nice rolling! Let’s assign these hits. Start 
from the first slot and make your way up, only 
counting the first 10 dice.
Slot 1: “2” — Damage a destroyer. Your opponent 
chooses which one because you rolled a 2. He 
chooses the one without the infantry, since the 
infantry would be destroyed otherwise.
Slot 2: “1” — Destroy the cruiser!
Slot 3: “1” — Hit the battleship, but due to its 
special ability of ignoring the first hit per turn, this 
hit is ignored.
Slot 4: “1” — This hit would destroy an aircraft 
carrier, but there isn’t one, so the hit is assigned to 
the first unit available listed on the battle box, starting 
with slot 1 at the tip of the neck. It hits the undamaged 
destroyer and destroys it because it was a roll of a “1.” 
This also destroys the infantry on it.
Slot 5: “2” — Hit and destroy a transport 
of the defender’s choice. He chooses the 
one with nothing in it.
Slot 6: “3” — Miss.
Slot 7: “2” — This hits the damaged destroyer, 
because it is the only destroyer left, destroying it!
Slot 8: “6” — Miss.
Slot 9: “3” — Miss.
Slot 10: “2” — This would hit and damage an 
aircraft carrier, but there isn’t one, so the hit is 
assigned to the first unit available listed from left 
to right on the battle box neck, starting with slot 1. 
The first listed unit available is found in slot 3 — 
the battleship. The battleship is damaged.
The end result is that you damaged a battleship, 
sending it home for repairs, and destroyed 
everything else except a lone transport delivering 
an artillery and supply.

Phase 3: Regroup
This is the final phase of the turn.
Regroup Sequence
1. Determine Control of 
Island Zones
2. Land Air Units
3. Build Airfields
4. Reinforce, Repair, and Deploy
5. Score Victory Points and Check 
for Victory
6. Pass the First-Player Marker
1. Determine Control of 
Island Zones
For each island zone on the game 
board (you can’t lose control of 
your base island zone), total up 
the players’ respective land attack 
powers of land units in the zone to 
determine who controls it. Land 
power is determined by the number 
of land attack dice the units in that 
zone would roll. For example, an 
artillery has 1 land attack power, 
and an antiaircraft gun has 0 
land attack power. Air units and 
supply tokens do not contribute to 
controlling an island zone.
If you have at least 1 land unit 
in the island zone, your adjacent 
cruisers and battleships also 
exert their land attack power on 
that zone. Unlike firing on island 
zones, battleships and cruisers 
can exert their attack power on 
all adjacent island zones at once 
for the purpose of determining 
control.
Whichever player has the highest 
total land attack power in the zone 
controls it, but not necessarily any 
airfields on it (see below). In a tie, 
the person who has control keeps 
it. Mark the island zone with the 
appropriate control marker.
Capturing Airfields and Supplies
If there are no enemy land units 
remaining in an island zone you 
control during this step, capture 
all enemy airfields (flip them over, 
retaining any damaged markers) 
and supply tokens (replace them 
with your own) in that zone. Treat 
them as if you had built them. You 
can spend the supplies and land 
air units on the airfields (if they 
are undamaged) in the same turn 
you capture them. You will also 
score the victory points for the 
undamaged airfields.
Because you have to eliminate 
all opposing units on an island 
to capture any enemy-controlled 
airfields there, it’s possible for a 
player to control an island zone 
but not one or both of the airfields 
on it. 
Example: The Allies player unloads 5 infantry into Axis-controlled 
New Georgia, where the Axis player controls an airfield and 4 infantry.
After combat, the Allies player has 4 infantry remaining, and the Axis 
player has 2. The Axis player loses control of the island zone, but retains 
control of the airfield because there are still Axis units on the island.

2. Land Air Units
Fighters and bombers must land 
now. Bombers may move up to 3 
zones and can land only on their 
home base or on any controlled 
airfield. Fighters may move up to 2 
zones and can land on their home 
base, a controlled airfield, or on 
a friendly aircraft carrier. Any air 
unit that can’t land is destroyed.
An air unit 
can’t land on 
a damaged 
or enemy-
controlled airfield, even if it didn’t 
move from that island zone this turn.
Landing Capacities
•	 Home Base (Rabaul or New 
Caledonia): Any number of air 
units
•	 Airfield: 2 air units per airfield 
marker
•	 Aircraft Carrier: 2 fighters 
(no bombers)
3. Build Airfields
Starting with the first player, players 
may build airfields. To build an 
airfield, spend 3 supply tokens you 
control on an island zone that has an 
empty airfield slot. Place an airfield 
marker on that island zone, with the 
appropriate side up. You control the 
airfield you build, even if you don’t 
control that island. 
Guadalcanal, Bougainville, and 
New Georgia can each have up to 
2 airfields. Santa Isabel, Malaita, 
and Choseul can each have no 
more than 1 airfield.
On each island that can hold 2 
airfield markers, it’s possible for 
each player to control an airfield 
marker on the same island.
4. Reinforce, Repair, and 
Deploy
In this step, players will bolster 
their forces, repair their damaged 
units, and stage their attack for the 
following turn.
Reinforce
Each player gets 10 reinforcement 
points to spend each turn plus 4 
points per island zone on the game 
board (not on the base cards) he 
or she controls. Thus, a player 
controlling 3 islands would get 22 
reinforcement points.
Starting with the first player, spend 
reinforcement points. Put any 
reinforcements bought onto the 
appropriate base card, with land 
units, air units, and supply tokens 
going on the land zone and sea 
units going in the sea zone.
If you have any new or existing 
transports, destroyers, and/or 
aircraft carriers in the sea zone, 
you may immediately load new 
and/or existing units onto them 
from your base card.
Any reinforcement points you do not 
spend are lost. Spend them wisely!
Sea Units
Air and Land Units, 
Supply Tokens
Sea Zone
Land Zone
Reinforcement Costs
Unit Type	
Cost
Infantry..............................1
Artillery.............................2
Antiaircraft Gun.................2
Transport............................2
Submarine..........................4
Destroyer...........................5
Cruiser...............................7
Aircraft Carrier..................7
Battleship..........................12
Bomber..............................5
Fighter................................3
Supply Token.....................2

Example: You have 1 battleship, 1 transport, and 3 supply tokens at 
your base at New Caledonia. Your transport is loaded with 2 infantry. 
You decide to spend 1 supply token to put the transport (with its 
cargo) into sea zone J, and then spend another 2 supplies to put the 
battleship into sea zone I.
Repair
player may repair airfields and 
sea units.
You may spend 1 supply token 
at your home base to repair a 
damaged sea unit there. Put the 
repaired unit into the sea zone on 
your base card, and you may then 
load units and/or supply tokens 
onto it (if applicable), as with a 
new sea unit. You may do this for 
each damaged sea unit you control.
You may spend 1 supply token on 
an island zone to repair a damaged 
airfield you control on that 
island. Remove the damaged 
marker from the airfield 
marker. You may do 
this for each 
damaged airfield 
you control.
Deploy
Starting with the first player, 
players may deploy any or all of 
their sea units from their base 
cards directly onto the game board 
by spending supply tokens at the 
home base.
The sea zones on the sides of the 
board have deployment numbers 
on them. You may deploy each sea 
unit from your home base card to 
one of those zones on your side of 
the board by spending a number 
of supply tokens equal to the 
deployment number in that zone.
Any units loaded on that sea unit 
move with it at no extra supply 
cost. This can be an effective way 
for getting troops or fighters into 
combat where they otherwise 
wouldn’t reach.
5. Score Victory Points and 
Check for Victory
Each player scores 1 victory point 
for each undamaged airfield he or 
she controls. Adjust the victory 
tracks accordingly.
When a player reaches 15 victory 
points during this step, that player 
wins the game. (If a player goes 
to 15 points or above during the 
Combat phase because he or she 
destroyed a capital ship, that 
player doesn’t win the game until 
this step.)
If both players reach 15 victory 
points in the same turn, the player 
with more victory points wins the 
game. If they are tied, the game 
continues until the tie is broken 
during this step.
6. Pass the First-Player 
Marker
The player with the first-player 
marker passes it to the other player. 
That player is now the first player. 
Start the next turn of the game.

APPENDIX 1: OPTIONAL RULES
Once you’ve played a few games, 
you may want to try out one or 
both of the two optional rules: 
advantages and hidden movement.
Advantages
Axis & Allies: Guadalcanal 
comes with 16 advantage 
tokens—8 per player—that 
you may use to add a twist to 
your games. You can spend an 
advantage token at the appropriate 
time to generate the effect of the 
advantage. Once expended, the 
token can’t be used again for the 
rest of the game.
You may choose to include all 
the advantages in a single game, 
or use only some of them. Each 
player should get the same 
number of tokens, though.
Axis Advantages
Command Decision
When used: At the beginning 
of Combat, before any attacks 
are made.
Effect: Choose a zone and choose 
air, sea, or land. After both players 
make their attacks against the 
chosen category of unit in the 
chosen zone and take casualties, 
both players attack again against 
that unit category in that zone.
Banzai Charge
before the Attack Land Units 
and/or Airfields step begins.
Effect: Choose an island zone. 
Each 3 you roll against land units 
counts as a hit in that zone this turn.
Night Fighting
before the Attack Sea Units 
step begins.
Effect: Choose a sea zone. Each 
2 you roll against sea units in 
that zone this turn counts as a 
“destroy” hit, just like rolling a 1.
Quick Drop
When used: At the end of the 
Movement phase.
Effect: Choose a sea zone. You 
may unload all your destroyers 
and transports in that zone onto an 
adjacent island zone.
Superior Fighters
When used: During Movement, 
before you move your fighters.
Effect: Your fighters may move up 
to 3 zones during Movement and 
Regroup this turn instead of up to 2.
Allies Tokens
Command Decision
When used: Use at the beginning 
of Combat, before any attacks 
are made.
Effect: Choose a zone and choose 
air, sea, or land. After both players 
make their attacks against the 
chosen category of unit in the 
chosen zone and take casualties, 
both players attack again against 
that unit category in that zone.
Good Logistics
When used: During Regroup, 
before you buy reinforcements.
Effect: Whenever you buy a 
supply or artillery this turn, get a 
second one of the same type free.
Amphibious Assault
between the Unload Transports 
and Destroyers step and the 
Attack Land Units step.
Effect: Make an attack against 
the land units in 1 island zone of 
your choice with the units you 
unloaded there this turn. Resolve 
the effects of this extra attack 
immediately, without the enemy 
returning fire.

PT Boats
before the Attack Sea Units 
step begins.
Effect: Place this token in a sea 
zone where you have at least one 
unit. This token counts as a sea 
unit—a PT boat—that has 1 sea 
attack power and may move in the 
Load and Move Destroyers step 
of the Movement phase. If your 
opponent attacks your sea units 
in the zone with your PT boat and 
hits a type of unit you don’t have 
there, your PT boat takes that hit 
and is destroyed. (This token stays 
in play until hit.)
Coast Watchers
When used: During Movement, 
before moving a specific unit type 
of your choice.
Effect: You do not move that unit 
type until after all other units have 
moved this turn.
Hidden Movement
A factor to consider in World War 
II naval warfare was that often 
unit movements went undetected. 
Smart commanders could keep 
the enemy second guessing about 
their true objectives.
If you’d like to simulate this 
effect, replace the steps of 
the Movement phase with the 
following steps:
1. Load Transports and 
Starting with the first player, 
each player loads his or her 
transports and destroyers, using 
the normal rules.
2. Hidden Sea Movement
Both players secretly write down 
the movements of their sea units 
on paper by indicating the letter of 
the sea zone the units originated 
from, and the letter of the sea zone 
they are moving to. If you want 
to split up a force in one zone 
and have it move to two separate 
places, simply write the units that 
are splitting off and their new 
destination.
Once both players are done, reveal 
your plans and move your units as 
you pre-determined.
3. Attack with Submarines
player may attack with his or her 
submarines.
4. Move Bombers
player moves his or her bombers.
5. Move Fighters
player moves his or her fighters.
APPENDIX 1: OPTIONAL RULES (continued)
APPENDIX 2: BATTLE BOX RESULTS CHART
For reference, the slot lineup on the neck of the battle box is:

APPENDIX 3: DESIGNER’S NOTES
A Guadalcanal Diary
Some of you know that my father was an infantryman in the South Pacific and fought in the Solomon Islands 
as well as New Guinea and the Philippines. I usually don’t miss an opportunity to write or talk about this 
whenever I have an audience. I’m sure my pride in my dad comes shining through each time.
On the surface, the South Pacific was nothing short of paradise. Think of what it must have 
been like. . . . An 18-year-old kid from New England, back in the 1940s when the world 
was a much bigger place, was getting a tropical vacation all paid for by Uncle Sam. All 
the transportation, food, and ammo you would need would be provided. There were white 
sandy beaches, palm trees, and lush jungles. It was just like in the movies. It must have 
been confusing when the enemy artillery and bombs began to fall.
My father kept a wartime diary of his experiences. His diary was just a small book with 
probably two hundred or so, now yellowed pages. Nonetheless, it is a big book in so 
many other ways. It is amazing that it has survived after so much and for so long. Many 
of the pages show wear. On a couple of them, rain drops that fell many years ago 
formed blue spots where the ink and water met. They serve as a testimony of a rainy 
day on Guadalcanal. This small book is now one of my most cherished possessions.
Axis & Allies®: Guadalcanal is indeed a very special game to me. It of course takes on a 
deeper meaning. The islands and the names on the map take on more significance than usual. They now have 
a more personal context. Guadalcanal is a place where Japanese warships and planes bombarded my father’s 
position. A quote from his diary (these quotes appear as they were, with the raw language of wartime):
“At night and especially under the full moon, the bombers came over and dropped their bombs 
and the Jap destroyers came down the slot and poured their huge shells into us. A shell coming 
in sounded just like a freight train.”
The island of Rendova and the town of Munda, both part of the New Georgia Islands group, were places where 
Corporal Harris made two of what would prove to be many beachheads.
“It was dawn when we went over the side of our transport, down the landing nets, and into 
our Higgins boats. Before we headed in, our ships bombarded the beach with 16-inch shells 
and scores of rockets. Our planes were swarming in over our heads strafing the beach. The 
thoughts running through my head were: ‘This is it. . . . When that ramp goes down, you’ll 
probably run right into a Jap machine gun nest. If you live through today, nothing can ever 
worry you again, because you will be living on borrowed time.’”
Being bombed by enemy aircraft is always, I’m sure, a terrifying experience. For the Americans, new to the 
war in the Pacific, this happened with a certain painful regularity. The Guadalcanal and Solomon Islands 
campaigns were among the few campaigns in which the two opposing forces could be considered on an equal 
par. After this battle the Japanese would never again be equal to the American air force, but for the moment the 
contest for air supremacy had not yet been resolved.
“I was looking up to what was thought to be low-flying American bombers. Suddenly I 
spotted the Jap rising sun markings. That’s when all hell broke loose. The bombers came 
flying in low, hopping over a small mountain that hid their approach. The planes were 
strafing and bombing our beachhead. They were doing a devastating job of blowing up 

APPENDIX 3: DESIGNER’S NOTES (continued)
everything. In addition to the blast of the bombs, the stacks of ammunition and shells were 
exploding. The drums of gasoline were bursting into flaming liquid, shooting high into the air. 
Hundreds of men were running every which way and being cut down by the explosions.”
Manning the jungle perimeter during the rainy season, when the nights were so black that one could not see his 
own hand in front of his face, the sounds of the killing were muffled by the falling rain and everything seemed 
to move in slow motion.
“We tied the empty ration cans together and strung them out and around our foxholes so if the 
Japs were moving around us in the dark they would rattle the cans and then we could open 
up with our rifles and machine guns. This happened almost every night because the Japs were 
strongly entrenched in the jungle and were all around us. They tried to infiltrate our perimeter 
at night and bayonet our men. You could swear that every bush around you was moving with a 
Jap behind it.”
The diary also speaks of more uplifting events. It talks about when his troop train crossed the country from the 
east coast to the west coast and how at every small town and railroad crossing local people came out to wave 
at the soldiers . . . how they tossed cases of cold beer and cola onto the slow passing train . . . how there were 
more cookies and cakes then they could eat and more books and magazines they could ever read.
The diary talks about crossing the Pacific on an unescorted troop ship filled to capacity with 5,000 people and 
tons of equipment badly needed on Guadalcanal. Upon entering a channel to the island of Espiritu Santo the 
ship suddenly shuddered and shook. Not once but twice. The ship had hit two mines in the harbor and sunk 
within minutes. With but a handful of casualties, 5,000 U.S. Army troops found themselves shipwrecked with 
no equipment and late for their scheduled appointment at Guadalcanal to join the Marines already fighting there.
Axis & Allies: Guadalcanal and the other games in the Axis & Allies series are what could be called an 
artistic interpretation of the historical battles they represent. I use the word artistic because I’m a designer 
and sincerely see games to be an art form. If these games were paintings they would have been painted with a 
broad brush indeed. Nonetheless, they bring information and often shine a bright light on the subject.
All the games are a result of a sincere effort on my part to recapture the significance and meaning of the 
struggles they portray. It is my hope that they honor your friends and relatives that may have participated in 
these epic events.
It is my hope that once you have played Axis & Allies: Guadalcanal, you will have 
a better understanding and appreciation for what occurred on that great battlefield of 
ocean and jungle. I think this game offers something different from the written text of a 
dedicated book on the subject. When such a text is combined with the playing of this 
game, a greater insight of the subject can be had. Historical games permit you to be 
in the drivers seat and steer the events. You can experiment with them. You can study 
“what ifs.” You are in charge!
I for one have learned much about the struggle for the Solomon Islands while 
designing this game. This has been a personal voyage of discovery as well. Being 
better informed, I walk away from this project even more proud of my father than I 
was before. How could that be possible? Enjoy!
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
— Larry Harris