Introduction
In every epic tale, Evil plots in the shadows to 
destroy the Forces of Good, preparing for the day 
when Darkness reigns supreme. But inevitably, 
Heroes rise up and courageously defeat this Evil, 
returning decency and justice to the land. Thank 
you, mighty Heroes, for keeping the Light of Virtue 
shining!
But, what happens when the humiliated Minions 
of Evil scuttle back to their lairs? What happens 
when this epic tale takes place in a world called 
Kragmortha? What will the sneaky Servants of the 
Darkness do when they find themselves facing Rigor 
Mortis, the Evil Genius and Lord of the Lost Lands?
Rigor Mortis: Well, my slimy Servants, did you 
bring me the grey wizard’s cloak, as I ordered you?
Shalma-Ne: The c-c-c-cloak! Of course, my Lord.
We were going towards the wizard’s tower but, 
while we were crossing the forest, this bungler 
goblin made us lose our way…
Rigor Mortis: Ah! Is that so, Nya-Khebo?
Nya-Khebo: But my Lord, it was not my fault! I 
was following the right path when a terrible storm 
took us by surprise and Simur-Hadd advised us to 
make a detour to take shelter in a mine…
Rigor Mortis: We are afraid to get wet then, are 
we?
Simur-Hadd: Well yes, unfortunately this is true, 
but I did not want to…
Rigor Mortis: Simur-Hadd! For the umpteenth 
time, you have wrecked a most important mission! 
And for the umpteenth time, you will be severely 
punished! Stay where you are…

Game Overview
Aye, Dark Overlord! is a fantasy-based party game 
with a humorous and easy-going tone. To play, you 
only need a bit of quick-thinking, some friends, and a 
willingness to have a lot of fun.
The game is simple to learn and easy to play. The 
wicked Servants of Rigor Mortis, the one and only 
Evil Genius, return home after their umpteenth 
failed mission and must justify themselves to their 
Master, inventing stories and unlikely excuses, and 
laying the blame as much as possible on their fellow 
toadies.
The player who plays the Evil Genius has an 
important role in the game, too. He holds absolute 
power, and the Servants are his to command. He can 
choose to punish them or accept yet another apology. 
He judges if their excuses are worthy and if a Servant 
is too hesitant or too disrespectful.
And to those who can’t come up with an excuse, he 
doles out Withering Looks…
Game Contents
There are two different sets of Aye, Dark Overlord: 
The Red Box and The Green Box. Both boxes include 
the same number of cards and contain minor 
differences as explained here in the rules. Each box 
can be played as a standalone game or combined 
with the other box for even more maniacal mayhem!
Each box contains:
•	 This Rulebook
•	 121 Hint Cards
•	 37 Action Cards
•	 7 Withering Look Cards

Playing the Game
Player Roles
In Aye, Dark Overlord! players take on one of two 
different roles: the Servants or the Dark Overlord.
Before playing, decide who shall play the part of the 
Dark Overlord in the first game. The choice may be 
made by random selection, by fair vote, or even by 
highly biased popularity contest.
All the other players are the Dark Overlord’s Servants, 
the sneakiest and most treacherous creatures from 
Kragmortha or any other fantasy world imaginable. 
They should all possess certain distinctive 
characteristics: ineptitude, clumsiness, and the 
inability to carry out even the simplest task.
The Cards
Aye, Dark Overlord! has two types of cards:
Hint Cards
The Hint Cards are the narrative cues that the player 
uses to create a story and justify himself to the Dark 
Overlord. When using a Hint Card, a player can draw 
inspiration from any part of the title, the description, 
or the illustration, as long as the association with the 
card’s content is obvious and, of course, accepted by 
the Dark Overlord.
Note that the small icons in the top-left corner of the 
Hint Cards are only used when playing the Aye, Dark 
Master! variant set of rules (see page 14).

Action Cards
Action Cards must be played in combination with a 
Hint Card to perform a particular action. The actions 
allowed are represented by symbols:
A Pass the Buck action (in both game boxes) shifts the 
blame to another player, forcing him to start his turn.
A Freeze action (in both game boxes) attempts to 
disturb the narration of another player during his 
turn with a new Hint Card. (The player who plays the 
card does not take the turn; he simply pesters and 
generally annoys the player whose turn it is).
A Back of the Line action (in The Green Box only) 
can be played at the start of a player’s turn, before 
making excuses. He trades his hand of cards with 
another player’s hand of cards. He cannot look at the 
other player’s cards before trading.
A No Way! action (in The Green Box only) can be 
played during another player’s turn. The targeted 
player immediately discards all of his Action cards 
and draws one new card. Then, that player continues 
his turn as normal. If he did not draw a Pass the 
Buck card, he will receive a Withering Look card.
Most cards can do only one type of action; a few cards 
offer a choice between two actions (in The Red Box only).
Note that the small icons in the top-left corner of the 
Action Cards are only used when playing the Aye, 
Dark Master! variant set of rules (see page 14).
Pass the Buck
Freeze
No Way!
Back of 
the Line

The game also contains cards used by the Dark 
Overlord to dole out Withering Looks to the Servants. 
Withering Look Cards display roman numeral on the 
bottom of the card to indicate one of three levels of 
the Dark Overlord’s anger. 
The Withering Looks
The Dark Overlord gives Withering Looks to players 
during the game as the measure of his anger towards 
his Servants. The first player to receive a third 
Withering Look is considered responsible for the 
failure of the mission and is severely punished.
When a player receives his first Withering 
Look, he places a Withering Look 
Card showing the first 
level of anger in front of 
himself. When he receives 
a second Withering Look, 
he flips the card over 
to the side showing the 
second level of anger. 
When he receives his 
third Withering Look, 
the game is over.
from The Red Box
from The Green Box

Setup
1.	 Choose one player to be the Dark Overlord. This 
player takes on the role of Rigor Mortis, perhaps 
even wearing a long cloak to get into the part.
2.	 Sort the cards by type: Hint Cards, Action Cards, 
and Withering Look Cards. The Dark Overlord 
takes the Withering Look Cards and places them 
in front of him. Each of the other two decks is 
shuffled.
3.	 Deal each Servant player three Hint Cards and 
three Action Cards. After casting a long, baleful 
stare at his Servants, and observing a moment 
of ominous silence, the Dark Overlord starts the 
game.
Starting the Game
The Dark Overlord addresses one of his Servants, 
asking a question about the mission’s results.
Examples
“Well my brave Servants. I COMMANDED you to 
kidnap the Princess and bring her to me. Did you 
carry out your mission?”
“Slaves, did you raze the village near the Small Big 
Horn to the ground as I ordered you?”
“My faithful minions, have you finally found the 
Wart Elixir?”
The choice of the first player to be grilled is 
completely at the whim of the Dark Overlord. Then, 
the player questioned must justify himself, and his 
turn begins.

The Servant’s Turn
During his turn, the Servant makes excuses for his 
many failures and tries to avoid angering the Dark 
Overlord. The excuses invented by the players should 
not necessarily be realistic or even plausible, given 
the humorous nature of the game. The more absurd 
they are, the funnier the game is. However, all the 
excuses must be consistent with the Hint Cards 
played.
A player’s turn begins when he is questioned by the 
Dark Overlord or is the target of a Pass the Buck card. 
His turn ends when he either receives a Withering 
Look or manages to play a Pass the Buck card on 
another player.
If the player was the target of a Pass the Buck card, 
he starts his turn by drawing a new Action Card 
from the deck. However, if the player was questioned 
directly by the Dark Overlord, he cannot draw an 
Action Card.
During his turn, a player must:
•	 Play at least one Hint Card to continue his tale.
•	 Play a maximum of three Hint Cards during his 
turn, including the one played along with the 
Pass the Buck card.
•	 End his turn by playing a Pass the Buck card 
along with a Hint Card to shift blame to another 
Servant.
At the end of his turn, after playing the Pass the Buck 
card, the player draws enough Hint Cards from the 
deck to bring his hand back up to three cards.
Excessive hesitation, an inability to continue his 
story, or an inability to end his turn by playing a 
Pass the Buck card will provoke the Dark Overlord’s 
anger, and the player will receive a Withering Look.

If a player does not have a Hint Card at the 
beginning of his turn, he automatically receives a 
Withering Look from the Dark Overlord.
If a player does not have a Pass the Buck card, he can 
choose to immediately receive a Withering Look and 
end his turn.
Note: It is strongly recommended that players 
maintain a tone of respect when addressing the Dark 
Overlord. If a player does not show enough deference, 
the Dark Overlord may take offense and resort to a 
Withering Look…
Out-of-Turn Actions
Outside of his turn, a Servant can disrupt the active 
player’s narration by playing either a Freeze card 
together with a Hint Card or a No Way! card.
The Freeze card must be introduced with an 
appropriate statement (such as “Actually, this is not 
true…”) and must have a connection to the player’s 
narration. An incorrectly played 
Freeze card may anger 
the Overlord. The target 
of the Freeze action 
must react quickly 
and alter his story to 
accommodate the 
forced change. The 
Freeze card cannot 
be played during 
a Pass the Buck 
action.
Note that playing 
a Freeze card does 
not allow a player 
to recover Hint or 
Action Cards.

The Servant’s Hand
Each player starts the game with a hand of three 
Hint Cards and three Action Cards.
At the beginning of his turn, a player draws one 
Action Card if he has been targeted by a Pass 
the Buck card. If the Dark Overlord has directly 
questioned the player, he does not draw an Action 
Card at this time.
When the player ends his turn by playing a Pass the 
Buck card, he draws enough Hint Cards from the deck 
to have three in his hand.
When a player receives a Withering Look, he must 
discard all his cards and draw three new Action 
Cards and three New Hint Cards.
When a Freeze card is played, no other card is drawn.
The Dark Overlord
During the game, besides overseeing the various 
phases of the game, the Dark Overlord must keep the 
Servants on a razor’s edge.
He has the power to:
•	 Interrupt the players to demand further 
explanation.
•	 Introduce new narrative elements, independently 
from the Hint Cards.
•	 Rebuke and reprimand players as much as he 
likes, regardless of whose turn it is.
•	 Comment on the players’ narration.
•	 Urge them to go on (for example, “I am getting 
bored…and you DO NOT want me to get bored, do 
you?”).

The Dark Overlord’s Anger!
The pathetic Servants constantly test the Dark 
Overlord’s patience, and many situations can invoke 
his wrath, such as:
•	 No Pass the Buck Card: If a player is unable 
to play a Pass the Buck card, he is required 
to declare it during his turn (always acting 
“in character,” for instance stammering and 
trembling).
•	 No Hint Card: If a player finds himself with no 
Hint Card at the beginning of his turn.
•	 Being Slow: If, during the narration, a Servant 
pauses for too long (5–10 seconds, depending on 
the Dark Overlord’s whim), he immediately angers 
the Dark Overlord.
•	 Being Boring: If the Servant’s narration is too 
long and inconclusive.
•	 Unacceptable Hint: If, in the Dark Overlord’s 
unquestionable opinion, the Hint Card is not used 
acceptably during the narration.
•	 Do Not Call Me “Boss!”: Jokes, nicknames, and 
disrespectful behavior in regard to the Dark 
Overlord are immediately punished.
•	 Being Distracting: If a Servant disrupts the 
game with inconvenient small talk or pointless 
interruptions.
•	 At the Dark Overlord’s Whim: After all, he is the 
Evil Genius, Lord of the Lost Lands…
In all these cases, the Servant who angered the Dark 
Overlord receives a Withering Look. Afterwards, 
the Dark Overlord directs a new question at another 
player, just as was done at the beginning of the game.

Mercy, My Lord, Mercy!
After receiving the third Withering Look, a Servant 
has a last opportunity to save himself by begging 
for mercy. If the Dark Overlord considers the plea 
adequate, the player can draw an Action Card from 
the deck. If the card does not display Rigor Mortis’ 
skull, the Servant is safe and can continue the game 
as if he had never received the third Withering Look.
Otherwise, the final curtain falls on the miserable 
Servant. Rigor Mortis has found the person 
responsible for the failure, and immediately punishes 
him…or he may, instead, decide to retire to his secret 
lair to work out a much more cruel punishment.
The plea must be real, not a simple stammering, 
and must be presented in a funny way. It is 
important for the player to do his best to play 
the part of the slimy Servant, close to the final 
punishment and absolutely terrified at this prospect. 
Only with an adequate plea may the Servant hope to 
win the Dark Overlord’s mercy.
End of the Game
A game of Aye, Dark Overlord! ends when a Servant 
gets eliminated by receiving three Withering Looks 
and fails to obtain mercy. At this point, players can 
begin a new game with the player who was just 
eliminated (or any other player, if all players agree) 
taking the role of the Dark Overlord.
Action Card with Rigor Mortis’ Skull

Other Rules
The “First Round” Rule
To allow all players to take part in the game, each 
player must perform one free Pass the Buck action 
(without playing an Action Card) during the first 
round of the game. This action must be performed 
against the player sitting to his right. After the first 
round, it is then possible to play a Pass the Buck card 
as normal against other players.
During the first round, players are allowed to play 
Freeze cards. The Dark Overlord may distribute 
Withering Looks normally, but once a player receives 
one, the Dark Overlord must resume the game by 
questioning the player to the right of the Withering 
Look’s target.
The “No Mirror Reflections” Rule
The Dark Overlord gets bored very easily, listening 
to his Servants’ irrelevant blather. The only thing 
worse to listen to is a quarrel between two of them. 
If two players trade the blame between themselves 
repeatedly with the intent to cause one of them to 
receive a third Withering Look, the Dark Overlord may 
intervene in a much more impartial (and drastic) way 
by giving them both a Withering Look. At any rate, 
we strongly discourage more than two consecutive 
exchanges of the blame between two players.
The “Priority” Rule
If more than one card is played to disrupt a player’s 
turn, the card played by the first person in clockwise 
order from the player whose turn is being disrupted 
takes precedence above all the others. The other 
players must withdraw their cards and play them 
later…
However, never forget that the Dark Overlord always 
has the final say…on everything!

Aye, Dark Master!
Welcome to Aye, Dark Master!, a variant set of rules 
for Aye, Dark Overlord! designed to provide more 
rules structure without sacrificing any of the fun! 
Object of the Game
To win, a player must survive to the end of the game 
with the most Hint Cards played in front of him.
Components
The game uses the exact same Hint Cards, Action 
Cards, and Withering Look Cards as Aye, Dark 
Overlord!
Hint Cards
These cards provide narrative elements for the 
Servants’ excuses. Each Hint Card has an icon to 
identify which of the six types it is:
Person: This excuse involves a specific 
individual the Servant encountered.
Object: This excuse involves a specific item 
the Servant sought or possessed.
Place: This excuse involves a specific 
location the Servant visited.
Monster: This excuse involves the Servant 
being harassed by a specific type of creature.
Event: This excuse involves an activity 
or something that inspires an activity the 
Servant was involved in.
Wild: This excuse is so powerful, it can be 
played as any of the other five types.

Action Cards
These cards are used for accusing and interrupting 
other Servants. They are also used by the Dark 
Master to challenge his minions’ excuses and 
overrule their pitiful actions.
An Action Card with the Pass the Buck or Back of 
the Line symbol is played to compel someone else to 
play a Hint Card of a specific type. The Dark Master 
may play a Pass the Buck or Back of the Line card to 
challenge Hint Cards.
An Action Card with a Freeze or No Way! symbol 
is played to interrupt other players. The Dark Master 
may play a Freeze or No Way! card as a call for 
silence, negating the effects of an interruption.
Action Cards with two different symbols may be 
used as either type.
Action Cards have a small icon to identify which 
type of Hint Card is required to respond to it. When 
playing an Action Card with a Wild icon, the player 
must choose one of the other five icons.
Mercy and No Mercy
Action Cards without Rigor Mortis’ skull may be used 
as a Mercy card to allow a player to avoid advancing 
to the next level of a Withering Look. However, the 
Dark Master may play them as a No Mercy card. A No 
Mercy card is played immediately after a Mercy card 
to negate its effects.
The three levels of Withering Look Cards are used to 
track the severity of the Dark Master’s anger. 

Setup
1.	 Shuffle the Hint Cards and place the Hint deck 
facedown within reach of all players.
2.	 Shuffle the Action Cards and place the Action 
deck facedown within reach of all players, with 
room for a discard pile.
3.	 Withering Look Cards should be placed within 
reach of all players.
4.	 Deal a hand of five Hint Cards and three Action 
Cards to each player.
5.	 One player is selected to start as the Dark Master. 
How to choose this person? It should be utterly 
arbitrary and unfair. Just like real life.
Describing the Plan
Before the game begins, the Dark Master describes 
the original plan. The player who starts as the Dark 
Master draws three cards from the Hint deck to form 
the basis of the plan. They might provide what the 
ultimate goal had been, where the scheme was to 
unfold, or objects necessary to complete the plot. 
These cards should be left in the center of the table 
for players’ reference, but are not counted in anyone’s 
final tally of played Hint Cards.
Example: Donna starts the game as the Dark Master. 
She draws “The Wizard’s Cloak,” “The Dwarfish 
Beer,” and “The Demonic Pyramid,” placing them on 
the table.
“Miserable cretins! I asked for one simple thing, 
and yet you have failed me. If I am to ruin the 
Dwarves’ precious outdoor beer festival, I must 
wear something warm! Do you want me to catch 
pneumonia? I ordered you to go to the top of the 
Demonic Pyramid to retrieve the fur-lined cloak, 
but it’s still on the pyramid. Now someone explain 
to me—what happened?!”

The Game Round
A round of play is composed of three phases:
•	 Draw Phase
•	 Accusation Phase
•	 Adjust Withering Look Phase
At the end of the round, the title of Dark Master is 
passed to the player to the left of the current Dark 
Master.
Draw Phase
During the Draw Phase, players discard as many of 
their Action Cards as they wish and then draw their 
hands back up to a total of five Hint Cards and three 
Action Cards. Hint Cards may not be discarded, and 
this is the only time a player can draw Hint Cards. 
By contrast, a player draws three new Action Cards 
immediately after he has played the last Action Card 
in his hand.
When the Action Card deck is empty, reshuffle the 
cards in the discard pile and reuse them. If the Hint 
Card deck is depleted, no more Hint Cards may be 
drawn.
Accusation Phase
The Accusation Phase starts with the Dark Master 
choosing one of his Servants and making a general 
accusation. The Dark Master does not need to play 
any Action Cards to make this general accusation.
Example: Dark Master Donna turns her attention 
to Adam. “You! What’s your sorry excuse for 
failing to retrieve the wonderful Wizard’s Cloak?”

The target must answer by playing a Hint Card of 
any type. If the Hint Card has a Wild icon, he must 
choose one of the other five types. He plays the card 
faceup in front of himself and makes up an elaborate 
tale that incorporates the content of the Hint Card 
that he played, the Dark Master’s original plan, and a 
healthy dose of self-aggrandizing.
Unless lost to a challenge from the Dark Master, the 
Hint Card remains in front of the person who played it 
and counts toward his final tally of played Hint Cards.
If the player does not play a Hint Card, he receives 
a Withering Look, and the round advances to the 
Adjust Withering Look Phase.
Example: Adam plays the “The Exotic Beauty” Hint 
Card. “Oh most malevolent Master. As I obediently 
began climbing the stairs of the Demonic Pyramid, 
I was momentarily distracted by a beautiful 
temptress. I tried to appear suave and manly, but I 
fell down the stairs and twisted my ankle.”
When a Hint Card is played, one of these occurs:
•	 The Dark Master Challenges. The Dark Master 
can challenge the Hint Card by playing a Pass the 
Buck or Back of the Line card.
•	 Another Player Interrupts. If the Dark Master 
does not challenge, any other player may 
interrupt by using a Freeze or No Way! card. 
If more than one player attempts to interrupt, 
the Dark Master chooses who takes precedence. 
Neither the Dark Master not the Servant who 
played the Hint Card may interrupt.
•	 The Player Makes an Accusation. If there’s no 
challenge or interruption, the player who just 
played the Hint Card may accuse another player 
with a Pass the Buck or Back of the Line card.
•	 The Dark Master Accuses Again. If no one 
wants to challenge, interrupt, or accuse, the Dark 
Master makes another general accusation, as 
when the round began.

The Dark Master Challenges
Immediately after a Hint Card has been played and 
explained, the Dark Master may challenge it by 
playing a Pass the Buck or Back of the Line card. 
The card’s icon indicates what type of Hint Card is 
required in response. If it is a Wild icon, the Dark 
Master must choose one of the five other types of 
icons when he plays it.
When challenging, the Dark Master should ask his 
underling a question appropriate to the type of Hint 
Card required for a response. If playing a card with a 
Person icon, he should ask who was involved in this 
story; if playing one with a Place icon, he should ask 
where this story happened. Remember, Action Cards 
are played then discarded.
Example: After Adam plays his “Exotic Beauty” 
Hint Card, Dark Master Donna challenges, playing 
a Pass the Buck card with an Event icon. “Wait 
one moment. You? Appear suave and manly? What 
exactly were you doing to achieve that effect?”
The person who played the original Hint Card must now 
play another card matching the Dark Master’s card type.
Example: Adam must now play a Hint Card 
with an Event icon. He plays the “The Unstable 
Balloon” card. “I tried to impress her with 
my balloon, but as soon as I got in, it went 
‘PTHHBBT!’ and I fell out.” Adam now has two 
Hint Cards played in front of him.
Once the second Hint Card is played, the Dark 
Master may not challenge either of them further. 
Play continues with other players now having an 
opportunity to interrupt.
If the player does not play a second Hint Card, 
the Dark Master places the challenged Hint Card 
in front of himself, to be added to his total at the 
end of the game. The player who lost the challenge 
receives a Withering Look, and the round moves to 
the Adjust Withering Look Phase.

Another Player Interrupts
If the Dark Master does not challenge the Hint Card, 
another Servant may try to interrupt with a Freeze 
or No Way! card. By playing these cards, players get 
the chance to play more Hint Cards. If more than one 
player tries to interrupt, the Dark Master determines 
who actually succeeds.
To play a Freeze or No Way! card, it must have an 
icon that matches the Hint Card just played. A card 
with a Wild icon may be used as any of the other 
five types of icons. When interrupting, the player 
should use the type of icon as a transition from 
the interrupted player’s flimsy excuse to his own 
important explanation.
Example: Belinda just played “The Stone Giant,” a 
Hint Card with a Monster icon, and Carl interrupts 
with a Freeze card with a Monster icon. “By funny 
coincidence, while she was wasting time with the 
Stone Giant, I was having my own unavoidable 
interaction with horrible creatures.”
Even if interrupted, a Hint Card still counts for the 
final tally of the Servant who played it.
Once played, the Action Card is discarded, and the 
player must follow it up by playing a Hint Card with 
the same icon. (If the card had a Wild icon, treat it 
as the icon it was used as.) After the Hint Card is 
played, play proceeds exactly as it did after the first 
Hint Card was played.
If a player does not follow his Freeze or No Way! card 
with a Hint Card, he receives a Withering Look and 
the round moves to the Adjust Withering Look Phase.
Example: Having interrupted, Carl must now play 
a Hint Card with a Monster icon. He plays “The 
Puppy” card. “I was at the top of the pyramid 
when I noticed that the most adorable little 
Spaniel had fallen asleep on top of the cloak. I 
tried to nudge the little fellow off of it, but he woke 
up and sunk his vicious fangs into my throat.” 

Silence!
Immediately after a player has interrupted with a 
Freeze or No Way! card, the Dark Master may forestall 
the interruption by playing a Freeze or No Way! card 
of his own and demanding “Silence!” The Dark Master 
may call for silence using any Freeze or No Way! card, 
regardless of the icon on it. Both Action Cards are 
discarded, and no further attempts to interrupt are 
allowed until a new Hint Card has been played.
Example: Belinda wants to interrupt Carl’s story, 
playing a Freeze card with a Monster icon. “Your 
saccharine and frankly unconvincing tale of the 
small puppy calls to mind a creature—.”
Dark Master Donna, however, plays a Freeze card 
of her own and demands, “Silence!” Both Action 
Cards are discarded, and Carl continues as if the 
interruption never happened.
The Player Accuses Someone Else
If the Dark Master does not challenge and no one 
else interrupts, the Servant who played the Hint Card 
may accuse one of the other Servants by playing a 
Pass the Buck or Back of the Line card. The card can 
have any sort of icon on it, but if it is a Wild icon, 
the player must choose one of the five other types 
of icons when he plays it. Once the Action Card is 
played, it is discarded.
When accusing, the player should interrogate his 
peer in a way that is appropriate to the type of icon 
that is required for a response.
Example: Adam now wants to pass the blame on 
to Belinda. He plays a Pass the Buck card with 
a Monster icon. “What I want to know is why 
she was wasting time with some horrible beast 
while our precious Dark Master was stuck inside, 
cloakless. What sort of monster is more important 
than our dread lord’s warmth?”

The targeted player must then play a Hint Card with 
an icon that matches the one on the Action Card just 
played. If an appropriate Hint Card is played, the 
round keeps going as before, with more challenges, 
interruptions, and accusations. If not, the targeted 
player receives a Withering Look and the round 
moves to the Adjust Withering Look Phase.
Of course, a player can never play a Pass the Buck or 
Back of the Line card on the Dark Master. If someone 
forgets and tries to do so, he receives a Withering Look 
and the round moves to the Adjust Withering Look 
Phase.
The Dark Master Accuses Again
If, after a Hint Card is played, no one wants to 
challenge, interrupt, or accuse, the Dark Master 
simply chooses a player and makes another general 
accusation, as when the round began. The Dark 
Master does not play an Action Card to do so, and, as 
always, any type of Hint Card can answer a general 
accusation.
Adjust Withering Look Phase
Anytime a player is called upon to play a Hint Card 
and doesn’t – or if someone accidentally makes an 
accusation against the Dark Master – that player 
receives a Withering Look and the round moves to 
the Adjust Withering Look Phase. During this phase, 
the player that received the Withering Look must 
advance to the next level of anger unless able to 
successfully beg for mercy from the Dark Master.
When a player advances to the first level of anger, he 
places a Withering Look Card in front of himself with 
the first level face up. When he advances to the next 
level, he flips the card over to the second level. When 
a player must advance to the final level, the Dark 
Master gives him the Withering Look Card with the 
third level, signalling certain doom for that player 
and the end of the game.

Mercy or No Mercy
Action Cards without Rigor Mortis’ skull may be 
played by Servants as Mercy cards or by the Dark 
Master as No Mercy cards. When a player receives a 
Withering Look, he may play a Mercy Card to avoid 
advancing to the next level of anger. Note that even 
if a Mercy Card is played, a new round still begins. 
When begging for mercy, the player should make a 
genuine attempt to beg for forgiveness.
Example: Carl has just received a Withering Look, 
and the round advances to the Adjust Withering 
Look Phase. To avoid advancing to next level of 
Withering Look, Carl plays a Mercy Card. “Please 
don’t be angry with me, my most malevolent 
master! I am unworthy of your humblest of burps. 
I beseech you to forgive me.” 
If the Dark Master does nothing, the player leaves his 
Withering Look Card as it was and a new round begins. 
The Dark Master, however, can play a No Mercy Card in 
response. A No Mercy card cancels the Mercy card and 
the Withering Look Card is adjusted as normal.
Example: After Carl’s plea for forgiveness, Dark 
Master Belinda negates the Mercy Card with a No 
Mercy Card. Both cards are discarded, and Carl 
flips his Withering Look Card over from the first 
level to the second.
Only one Mercy Card may be played per round. The 
icons on the Action Cards are disregarded when using 
the them as Mercy or No Mercy Cards.

Ending the Round
The round ends after the Adjust Withering Look 
Phase, even if the player who received the Withering 
Look played a Mercy Card and did not advance to the 
next level of anger. The title of Dark Master is passed 
one person to the left, and a new round begins.
Winning the Game
If a player advances to the third Withering Look 
Card, the Dark Master metes out his doom and the 
game is over. The winner is the surviving player with 
the most Hint Cards played in front of him. In case 
of a tie, whichever player has the most Hint Cards 
played in front of him and was most recently the 
Dark Master wins the game.
Credits
Rigor Mortis created by Riccardo Crosa.
Game Design: Fabrizo Bonifacio, Massimiano Enrico, 
and Chiara Ferlito, with special participation by Riccardo 
Crosa.
Aye, Dark Master! Game Design: Tim Uren
Illustration: Riccardo Crosa
Graphic Design: Andrew Navaro and Pablo “Spot” 
Valzania with Samuel R. Shimota
Publisher: Steven Kimball
© 2016 Pendragon Game Studio srl. Aye, Dark Overlord! is TM of Pendragon Game 
Studio srl. Used under license. The Asmodee logo is TM of Asmodee. The Fantasy Flight 
Supply logo is TM of Fantasy Flight Games. Asmodee North America, Inc. 1995 West 
County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components 
may vary from those shown. Made in China. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 13 
YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.