Rulebook (c) 2009 Néstor Romeral Andrés. 
Rules (c) 2009 Victor Melo Barbero. 
English translation by Nathan Morse (2009) 
Art by Néstor Romeral Andrés and Victor Melo Barbero 
 
 
A board game for 2 to 4 players 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The Aztec Market is a game by Victor Melo for the whole 
family, in which each player controls four buyers who have 
traveled to the market of Tlatelolco in order to buy commodities 
from the local vendors, trying to match the capricious tastes of 
the king. 
 
The Aztec Market is a partnership game for four players, 
in which the members of each partnership should sit facing one 
another. It can also be played with two or three players. In a 
two-player game, you should sit beside each other (not facing 
one another). In a three-player game, players can sit wherever 
they like. 
 
COMPONENTS 
 
The Aztec Market includes: 
15 market tiles: 4 vendors (black, blue, red, and 
green), 4 crowds, 2 porters, 2 governors, 1 
ambassador, 1 messenger (greys), and 1 king 
(multicolor). 
16 buyer tiles (brown). 
1 bag for the commodities and to protect the game. 
80 commodity tokens: 20 in each color (black, blue, 
red, and green). 
16 coins (grey money). 
1 start player marker (yellow). 
PREPARATION 
 
Market tiles: These are the individuals that are usually 
encountered at the market (all the tiles except the brown 
border). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examples of market tiles 
 
Starting with any player and continuing clockwise, each 
player places a market tile anywhere in the market, such that 
the market will comprise a 4 by 4 square, with a hole. (This 4×4 
array of tiles is the market.) 
 
Buyer tiles: These are the buyers, who seek commodities 
at a good price. 
 
Each player has four buyer tiles on her side of the table, 
one in each column of the market. 
 
Coins: These are the money used to pay for the 
commodities the buyers purchase. 
 
Place all the coins somewhere accessible to all the 
players. (This is the money supply.) Each player takes a coin 
from the supply and puts it on one of her buyer tiles. 
 
Commodities tokens: These are the commodities sold in 
the market of Tlatelolco: jewels (red), fabric (blue), pottery 
(black), herbs (green). 
 
Put all the commodity tokens in the game bag that doubles 
as the commodities supply. Without looking, remove 4 
commodities from the supply and set them aside, out of sight. If 
you want a shorter game, remove more commodities (always a 
multiple of 4). If you don't want any randomness, remove the 
same number of each color of commodity, or don't remove any 
at all. 
 
 
 
Example of a game setup 
 
GAMEPLAY 
 
Give any player (the youngest, for example) the start 
player marker. The other players will take their turn in 
clockwise order. On your turn, choose one of the following 
options: Pass or play. 
 
PASS 
 
Execute the following steps in order: 
 
1. Replenish commodities: The vendors are obsessed 
with having the best commodities each day. 
 
You must draw 4 random commodity tokens from the bag. 
Each one must go on the vendor tile of the corresponding 
color. A vendor can only have tokens that match its tile's color. 
Important: When there are no tokens left in the bag, you don't 
perform this step. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The vendors (red, blue, green and black) 

 
Rulebook (c) 2009 Néstor Romeral Andrés. 
Rules (c) 2009 Victor Melo Barbero. 
English translation by Nathan Morse (2009) 
Art by Néstor Romeral Andrés and Victor Melo Barbero 
2. Move the market: The market of Tlatelolco is different 
each day. 
 
You must move two market tiles. In order to move a tile, 
take any tile from the marketplace and move it to the hole in the 
market. 
 
3. Obtain money: A buyer without money has nothing to 
do. 
 
You must take a coin from the money supply and place it 
on one of your buyer tiles. A buyer tile can only have one coin 
on it. Important: If you already have coins on all four of your 
buyer tiles, you don't perform this step. 
 
4. Utilize the king: The king satisfies his cravings at his 
whim. 
 
If there are any vendor tiles with one or more commodity tokens 
on them in the same row or column as the king, then you may 
choose a total of one such token and place it on the king's 
tile. The king can have any number of commodity tokens on 
him, even of different types. Important: Crowds do not impede 
your ability to transfer a token to the king in this fashion. 
 
 
 
The king 
 
PLAY 
 
Take the following actions in any order or quantity you like: 
 
1. Move the market (optional) 
 
You may spend one or more of your buyers' coins in order 
to move the same number of market tiles. In order to move a 
tile, take any tile from the marketplace and move it to the hole 
in the market. Return the spent coins to the money supply. 
 
Messenger: The messenger tile can be moved as many 
times as you like during this phase without spending money. 
 
 
 
Messenger 
 
2. Buy commodities 
 
You must use one or more of your buyers with money to 
buy commodities from the vendors. A buyer can't buy if it 
doesn't have a coin on its tile. In order to make the purchase, 
take all the commodity tokens from the vendor's tile, and place 
them on the tile of the buyer that made the purchase. For each 
purchase (but not for each commodity) return one coin from the 
corresponding buyer's tile to the supply. 
 
In order to purchase commodities, the following conditions 
must be met: 
 
The buyer's tile must have a coin. 
The buyer must be in the same column as the vendor. 
 
The buyer must be empty or have commodity tokens 
of the same color as the vendor's tile. Two or more buyers 
belonging to the same player could buy commodity tokens of 
the same color. 
There can't be any crowd tiles between the buyer and 
the vendor. 
 
 
 
Crowd 
 
The following could occur during a purchase: 
 
• There is a porter tile between the buyer and the 
vendor: The porter returns one of the purchased 
commodities to the vendor's tile. 
 
 
• There is a governor tile between the buyer and 
the vendor: The governor puts one of the 
purchased commodities on the king's tile. 
 
 
• There is an ambassador tile between the buyer 
and the vendor: Don't return the coin to the reserve 
(although the buyer must still have one in order to 
make the purchase). 
 
 
END OF THE GAME 
 
The game ends when the player to the right of the start 
player finishes her turn and there are no commodity tokens 
remaining in the supply. Each partnership evaluates their score 
as follows: For each color of commodities, the player with more 
tokens of that type of commodity multiplies the number she has 
on her buyer tiles by the number of the that type that the king 
has. When the king has none of a commodity, you get no 
points for it. The partnership with the highest total wins. In the 
event of a tie, the partnership of the player with more coins 
wins. If the tie persists, the partnership of the player with more 
commodity tokens wins. With two or three players, the winner 
is the individual with the highest total. 
 
Example: Yolanda and Victor are playing against Laura 
and Raquel. The following table shows the commodities 
obtained by each player (and in parentheses, the points 
earned). When there's an asterisk beside 0 points, it is 
because the player's partner has more commodities of that 
color, which means only the partner's score points. Yolanda 
and Victor amassed 53 points, while Laura and Raquel scored 
60, winning the game. 
 
 
Black 
Blue 
Red 
Green 
Total 
Yolanda
9 (18) 
6 (6) 
15 (24) 
Victor 
5 (0*) 
5 (20) 
3 (9) 
13 (29) 
Laura 
3 (6) 
6 (24) 
4 (0*) 
4 (0*) 
17 (30) 
Raquel 
8 (24) 
6 (6) 
14 (30) 
King 
-