Goal
Players place their balloon cards next to the balloon hop tiles, trying to
collect victory cubes in the right colors so they can claim trophy cards. The
first player to take 3 of the 5 trophy cards is the winner!
Contents
45 balloon cards (13 red, 11 yellow, 9 green, 7 blue, and 5 gray)
High value cards are best in mountains. 
Low value cards are best in flatlands.
45 victory cubes (13 red, 11 yellow, 9 green, 7 blue, and 5 gray)
5 trophy cards
There are trophies in the 5 balloon colors. The number on the balloon
shows how many victory cubes of this color a player must have to claim
the trophy.
1 bag
4 balloon hop tiles (with mountain on one side and flatland on the other)
Preparation
the hop tiles:
• Place the 4 balloon hop tiles in a row between the two
players as shown to the right: 
• Place the 45 victory cubes in the bag and mix them.
• Place victory cubes on the balloon hop tiles. Randomly draw victory cubes
from the bag and place them on the ballon hop tiles: 1 on tile number 1,
2 on tile number 2, 3 on tile number 3, and 4 on tile number 4.
• Shuffle the balloon cards face down and deal eight cards to each player.
Each player takes his cards into his hand, keeping them secret from his
opponent during the game.
• Place the remaining balloon cards face down as a supply next to the
board. A discard stack will form next to it. If, during the game, the supply
is exhausted, shuffle the discard stack and place it face down as the new
supply.
• Place the 5 trophy cards face up near the board.
• The players decide who will start. The players then alternate turns.
Playing the game
On a player’s turn, he selects a card from his hand and places it face
up next to the balloon hop tile of his choice. He may place the card
on his side of the tile or on his opponent’s side of the tile. Then, he
draws the top-most card from the supply and adds it to his hand,
ending his turn.
Placing cards
• The number of victory cubes on a balloon hop tile determines the
number of balloon cards that must be placed on each side of the tile. 
• The colors of the victory cubes on a balloon hop tile determine the colors
of the balloon cards that must be placed on each side of the tile. 
Example: there are 2 blue, 1 yellow, and 1 red victory cubes on balloon hop
tile number 4. Thus, the players must place 2 blue, 1 yellow, and 1 red balloon
cards on each side of the tile.
• The players place the cards so that they overlap, but do not cover cards 
previously placed. Thus, all placed cards can be seen.
• If the only card a player can place will help his opponent, he must place
it. A player may not choose to place no card on his turn.
• If a player cannot place any of his 8 cards, he shows them to his opponent
to prove he cannot place a card. If he can place a card, he must. If not, he 
may discard up to 4 cards (choose how many first) and draw the same
number from the supply. If he now can place a card, he does. If not, he
again shows his cards to his opponent to prove this. If he can place a card,
he must. If not, he ends his turn without placing a card.
Scoring
When the required number of cards have been placed on both sides of a
balloon hop tile, the tile is scored and the victory cubes given to the winner. 
Example: the number 2 balloon hop tile has 2 cards of the required colors
on each side, so it is immediately scored.
• If the tile being scored is a mountain, the player with the highest sum
of balloon cards on his side of the tile takes the victory cubes there. 
• If the tile being scored is a flatland, the player with the lowest sum
of balloon cards on his side of the tile takes the victory cubes there. 
• If the sums of the balloon cards on both sides of the tile is the same, the
player who placed the last card wins and takes the victory cubes there. It
matters not on which side the last card is placed nor whether the tile is
mountain or flatland.
• The winner takes the victory cubes on the tile and puts them in his play
area.
• The winner discards all balloon cards from both sides of the tile.
• The winner turns the tile over. Thus, mountain becomes flatland or
flatland becomes mountain.
• The winner draws as many victory cubes from the bag (without looking)
as the number on the tile and places them on the tile.
• Now the players check to see if the winner has enough victory cubes to
take one or more of the trophy cards. If so, he takes the card(s) he can.
(see “The trophy cards”). 
• The game now continues with the player who lost the tile scoring.
mountain 2
flatland 3
flatland
mountain 4
player A
player B
1 victory cube:
1 balloon card on right and
1 balloon card on left. 
2 victory cubes:
2 balloon cards on right and
2 balloon cards on left. 
3 victory cubes:
3 balloon cards on right and
3 balloon cards on left. 
4 victory cubes:
4 balloon cards on 
right and 4 balloon
cards on left. 
engrules:engrules 6/18/07 9:12 AM Page 1

Overview
In Balloon Cup, the players compete in several short balloon
flights (hops) to collect the colored cubes associated with
each hop. When a player has collected enough cubes of a
given color, he earns the trophy card for that color. Players
may even trade 3 otherwise useless cubes for 1 they can use.
The first player to earn 3 trophy cards is the winner! 
Each player has a hand of eight balloon cards. The players
play their balloons on mountain or plain hops. Players play
their high-valued balloons on the mountains and their low-
valued balloons on the plains. Players usually play their
balloons on their side of the hops, but winds (and cunning)
can cause them to play on their opponent’s side, a move that
can ruin their opponent’s plans.
The trophy cards
After scoring a balloon hop tile, the players check to see if the winner has the
required number of victory cubes in one or more colors.
When a player has the required number of victory cubes of a color (or
more), he puts the required number of cubes back in the box, takes the
trophy card of that color, and places it face up in his play area. Once taken,
a player cannot lose a trophy card during the game. 
The players keep any extra victory cubes in this color and can continue to
win victory cubes in this color during the rest of the game. When a player
claims a trophy card, he can use 3 victory cubes in the color of an already
claimed trophy card, as one victory cube in the color of the trophy card he
is claiming. The player does not actually get the new cube as the trade occurs
when the player has sufficient cubes, including 3 for 1 traded cubes to claim
a trophy card. The cubes used in a 3 for 1 trade must all be the same color.
He may trade more than one set of 3 cubes to claim a trophy card.
Example: the yellow trophy card has been taken. Kevin has 4 green victory
cubes and 3 yellow victory cubes. He puts all 7 of them in the box to claim
the green trophy card.
After the player who won the tile has claimed any trophy cards he can,
including using 3 for 1 trades, the other player may claim one trophy card
if he can, using 3 to 1 trades to do so. Since the use of 3 for 1 trades can have
a cascading effect, the player who won the tile takes precedence in claiming
trophies. Thus, the player who won the tile can again claim as many trophies
as he can after his opponent has claimed one, and so on.
Example: Mike has already claimed the red trophy card and has 2 gray, 3
blue, 3 green, and 5 yellow cubes. Kevin wins a tile, giving him 3 yellow, 3
red, 5 green, 3 blue, and 2 gray cubes. He claims the green and blue trophies,
using 3 red cubes as a blue cube. Mike may now claim the gray trophy using
3 blue cubes as 1 gray cube. As Kevin can claim no trophy, Mike claims the
yellow trophy using 3 green cubes as 1 yellow cube, winning the game! Had
Mike chosen to claim the yellow trophy first, Kevin would have been able to
win the game by claiming the gray trophy before Mike using his 3 yellow
cubes as 1 gray cube.
Note: a player is not obligated to use the 3 for 1 trade when he first can. He
may wait for a time that is best for him, but if he waits too long, he may give
his opponent the chance to make a similar trade for a trophy card.
Not enough victory cubes in the bag
Near the end of the game, it can happen that there are not enough victory
cubes in the bag for a player to fill a balloon hop tile. If this happens, the
player removes the balloon hop tile from the game and play continues with
fewer tiles.
Game end
The game ends immediately when a player takes a third trophy card. This
player is the winner! 
The author: 
The American, Stephen Glenn, born in 1966, lives in Virginia with his wife,
Lourdes, and his two children, Alexander and Valori. He is a high school
English teacher. Next to his passion for family strategy games, he enjoys
composing instrumental music. Balloon Cup is his first published game.
Development: TM-Spiele
Illustration: Jürgen Zimmermann
Graphics: Michaela Schelk / Fine Tuning
English translation: Anna & Jay Tummelson
Art.-Nr: 692810
All Rights Reserved.
The author and publisher thank all test players and rule readers for their
comments and suggestions.
The author especially thanks Dave and
Jennifer Bernazzani, Ben and Marcia
Baldanza, and Dominic Crapuchettes for
their help. 
Stephen Glenn
gray
3 victory cubes
blue
4 victory cubes
green
5 victory cubes
yellow
6 victory cubes
red
7 victory cubes
color
number of victory cubes
A BALLOON GAME FOR 2
PLAYERS AGED 10 AND UP
© 2003 KOSMOS Verlag
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
www.riograndegames.com
e-mail: RioGames@aol.com
engrules:engrules 6/18/07 9:12 AM Page 3