A High Caliber Card Game
Since the beginning, the Outlaws hunt the Sheriff, the Sheriff hunts the 
Outlaws. The Renegade plots in secret, ready to take one side or the other. 
But who are the merciless Outlaws, willing to gun him down? To find out 
you have to draw! (Your cards, that is!)
Under the burning High Noon sun, unexpected events send the gunmen 
scurrying for cover in a ghost town.
While in the bison town of Dodge City, new gunmen compete with the old, 
using new tricks and unknown techniques.
When the going gets tough, the tough put it all on the line, putting up 
a Fistful of Cards and going for broke.
If that weren’t enough, even stranger gunmen emerge from their secret 
hideouts!
Now the Sheriff has decided to settle things once and for all in his own way.
He has written a name on a single bullet. That name is... BANG!
This special edition includes every BANG! card published to date, and 
a few new extras! Inside, you will find:
 - BANG! - The world’s most famous Wild West card game
 - High Noon - The first limited expansion
 - Dodge City - Featuring new cards and characters, and playable by up to 8
 - A Fistful of Cards - The second limited expansion, including designs 
from all over the world.
Along with three special characters wanted by BANG! fans everywhere:
 - UNCLE WILL
 - JOHNNY KISCH
 - CLAUS “THE SAINT”
Two new cards for High Noon, never before available in published form:
 - NEW IDENTITY
 - HANDCUFFS
Plus two blank cards for your own creations, and a special gift: a shiny 
new Sheriff’s badge!
A game for 4-7 players aged 8 and up
BANG! is a shootout game, in Spaghetti Western style, between a 
group of Outlaws and the Sheriff, who is their primary target. 
The Deputies incognitos help the Sheriff, but there is also 
a Renegade pursuing his own goal!
In BANG! you play one of these roles, and represent 
a famous Wild West inspired character.
CONTENTS
• 103 cards of three different types (identified by their back):
- 7 “role” cards: 1 Sheriff, 2 Deputies, 3 Outlaws, 1 Renegade;
- 16 character cards, with bullets printed on the back;
- 80 playing cards;
• 7 summary cards, for beginners.
The Bullet!
The Bullet!
for
or 4 7
-7 plalalalalalalalalalalalalalalalal ye
yersrsrsrsrsrsrsrsrsrsrsrsrs age
ged

OBJECT OF THE GAME
Each player has his own goal:
Sheriff: must eliminate all the Outlaws and the Renegade, to 
protect law and order.
Outlaws: they would like to kill the Sheriff, but they have no 
scruples about eliminating each other to gain rewards!
Deputies: they help and protect the Sheriff, and share his same 
goal, at all costs!
Renegade: he wants to be the new Sheriff; his goal is to be the 
last character in play.
PREPARATION
Take as many role cards as the number of players, divided as follows:
4 players: 1 Sheriff, 1 Renegade, 2 Outlaws
5 players: 1 Sheriff, 1 Renegade, 2 Outlaws, 1 Deputy
6 players: 1 Sheriff, 1 Renegade, 3 Outlaws, 1 Deputy
7 players: 1 Sheriff, 1 Renegade, 3 Outlaws, 2 Deputies
Shuffle the cards and give one, face down, to each player. The Sheriff 
reveals himself by turning his card face up; all other players look at 
their role but keep it secret.
Shuffle the characters and give one face up to each player. Each 
player now announces the name of his character and reads his ability. 
Each player takes another character card, from the left over cards, turns 
it face down to show the bullets on the back, and covers it partially with 
his character card to show exactly as many bullets as there are depicted 
on the character card. During the game, the bullets will be progressively 
covered, to show that the character has been injured.
The Sheriff plays the game with one additional bullet: if his character 
card shows three bullets, he is considered for all effects to have four; 
if he has four bullets, then the Sheriff plays with five.
Put the remaining role and character cards back in the box.
Shuffle the playing cards, and give each player as many cards, 
face down, as the bullets represented on his character card. Put the 
remaining playing cards face down in the middle of the table, as a draw 
pile. Leave room for the discard pile. Give each player a summary card.
Note: for your first few games, you can try a simplified version of the 
game by removing all cards with the symbol of a book before getting 
started.
Characters
Each Western character has some special abilities, which make you 
unique. The series of bullets near the character’s picture show how 
many life points you begin the game with, i.e., how many times you 
can be hit before being eliminated from play.
Moreover, the bullets indicate how many cards you can hold in your 
hand at the end of your turn (hand size limit).
Example. Jesse Jones has 4 life points: he can be hit four times 
before being eliminated from the game. Moreover, Jesse can hold 
up to four cards in his hands at the end of his turn.
In the picture, though, Jesse has already lost one life point, as 
the bullet-card under him is showing: three more hits and he will 
be out! Also, Jesse can only hold up to three cards in his hand at 
the end of his turn, because he is down to three life!
Note: as already stated, each player represents a character; these 
two terms are interchangeable for the purposes of these rules.

THE GAME
The game is played in turns, in clockwise order. The Sheriff begins. 
Each player’s turn is divided into three phases:
1. Draw two cards;
2. Play any number of cards;
3. Discard excess cards.
1. Draw two cards
Draw the top two cards from the draw pile. As soon as the draw pile is 
empty, shuffle the discard pile to create a new playing deck.
2. Play any number of cards
Now you may play cards to help yourself or hurt the other players, trying 
to eliminate them. You can only play cards during your turn (exception: 
Missed! and Beer). You are not forced to play cards during this phase. You 
can play any number of cards; there are only three limitations:
• you can play only 1 BANG! card per turn;
• you can have only 1 copy of any one card in play;
• you can have only 1 weapon in play.
Example. If you put a Barrel in play, you cannot play another one, since you 
would end up having two copies of the same card in front of you.
There are two types of cards: brown-bordered cards (= play and discard) 
and blue-bordered cards (= weapons and other objects). 
Brown-bordered cards are played by putting them directly 
into the discard pile and applying the effect described with 
text or with symbols on the cards (illustrated in the next 
paragraphs). Blue-bordered cards are played face up in 
front of you (exception: Jail). Blue cards in front of the 
players are hence defined to be “in play”. The effect of 
these cards lasts until they are discarded or removed somehow 
(e.g. through the play of a Cat Balou), or a special event occurs 
(e.g. in the case of Dynamite). There is no limit on the cards you 
can have in front of you provided that they do not share the same name.
3. Discard excess cards
Once the second phase is over (you do not want to or cannot play 
any more cards), then you must discard from your hand any cards 
exceeding your hand size limit. Remember that your hand size limit, at 
the end of your turn, is equal to the number of bullets currently shown 
on the card that lies under your character card.
Then it is the next player’s turn, in clockwise order.
Eliminating a character
When you lose your last life point, you are eliminated and 
your game is over, unless you immediately play a Beer (see below). 
 When you are eliminated from the game, show your role card 
and discard all the cards you have in hand and in play.
Penalties and Rewards
• If the Sheriff eliminates a Deputy, the Sheriff must discard all the 
cards he has in hand and in play.
• Any player eliminating an Outlaw (even if the eliminating player is 
himself an Outlaw!) must draw a reward of 3 cards from the deck.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends when one of the following conditions is met:
a) the Sheriff is killed. If the Renegade is the only one alive, then he 
wins. Otherwise, the Outlaws win;
b) all the Outlaws and the Renegade are killed. The Sheriff and his 
Deputies win.

Example 1. All the Outlaws are eliminated, but the Renegade is still in play. In 
this case, the game continues. The Renegade must now face the Sheriff and his 
Deputies alone.
Example 2. The Sheriff is killed, all the Outlaws are eliminated, but one 
Deputy and the Renegade are still in play. The game ends with the Outlaws 
winning! They achieved their goal at the cost of their own lives!
New game
If you play more than one game in a row, players still “alive” at the 
end of the game may choose to keep their character for the following 
game; players which have been eliminated must draw a new character 
randomly. If you want to give each player the opportunity of playing 
the Sheriff, you may decide, before starting the game, to pass this role 
among players from game to game, randomly assigning the other roles.
Now that you are familiar with the rules, let’s see the cards of BANG! in detail!
THE CARDS
Distance between players
The distance between two players is the 
minimum number of places between 
them, counting clockwise or counter-
clockwise (see figure). The distance is very 
important, because all cards with a sight 
take it into account. Normally you can 
reach only targets (players or cards) within 
a distance of 1. When a character is 
eliminated, he is no longer counted when 
evaluating the distance: some players will get “closer” when someone is 
eliminated. Two cards can alter the distance between players:
Mustang: when you have a Mustang horse in play the distance 
between other players and you is increased by 1. However, 
you still see the other players at the normal distance.
In the figure, if A has a Mustang in play, players B and F would 
see him at a distance of 2, C and E at a distance of 3, and D at a 
distance of 4, while A would continue seeing all the other players 
at the normal distance.
Scope: when you have a Scope in play, you see all the other 
players at a distance decreased by 1. However, other players 
still see you at the normal distance. Distances less than 1 
are considered to be 1.
In the figure, if A has a Scope in play, he would see B and F at 
a distance of 1, C and E at a distance of 1, D at a distance of 2, 
while A would be seen by other players at a normal distance.
Weapons
You start the game with a Colt .45 revolver. This is not represented 
by any card. Using the Colt .45 you can only hit targets at a distance 
of 1, i.e. only players sitting to your right or your left. In order to hit 
targets farther than distance 1, you need to play a bigger weapon. 
Weapons can be recognized from their blue border with no bullet holes, 
black-and-white illustration and the number into the sight (see picture) 
that represents the maximum reachable distance. The weapon in play 
substitutes the Colt .45, until the card is removed somehow 
(e.g. through the play of a Panic!) or discarded (e.g. through 
Cat Balou). The only weapon you can never lose is the good 
ol’ Colt .45!
You can only have one weapon in play at a time: if you 
want to play a new weapon when you already have one, you 
must discard the one you already have.

Volcanic: with this card in play you may play any number of 
BANG! cards during your turn. These BANG! cards can be 
aimed at the same or different targets, but are limited to a 
distance of 1.
BANG! and Missed!
BANG! cards are the main method to reduce other players’ life points. 
If you want to play a BANG! card to hit one of the players, determine:
a) what the distance to that player is; and
b) if your weapon is capable of reaching that distance.
Example 1. With reference to the distance figure, let us suppose that 
A wants to shoot C, i.e., A wants to play a BANG! card against C. 
Usually C would be at a distance of 2, therefore A would need a 
weapon to shoot at this distance: a Schofield, a Remington, a Rev. 
Carabine or a Winchester, but not a Volcanic or the ol’ Colt .45. If 
A has a Scope in play, he would see C at a distance of 1, and therefore he could 
use any weapon to shoot at him. But if C has a Mustang in play, then the two 
cards would combine and A would still see C at a distance of 2.
Example 2. If D has a Mustang in play, A would see him at a distance of 4: in 
order to shoot D, A would need a weapon capable of reaching distance 4.
If you are hit by a BANG! you may immediately play a Missed!—even 
though it is not your turn!—to cancel the shot. If you do 
not, you lose one life point (register this loss by sliding your 
character card over a bullet). If you have no more bullets 
left, i.e. you lose your last life point, you are out of the 
game, unless you immediately play a Beer (see next para-
graph). The BANG! card is discarded, even when cancelled.
Note: you can only cancel shots aimed at you!
Beer
This card lets you regain one life point—slide the card so that one 
more bullet is shown. You cannot gain more life points than your 
starting amount! The Beer cannot be used to help other players.
The Beer can be played in two ways:
• as usual, during your turn;
• out of turn, but only if you have just received a hit that 
is lethal (i.e., a hit that takes away your last life point), 
and not if you are simply hit.
Example. You have 2 life points left, and suffer 3 damages from a 
Dynamite. If you play 2 Beers you will stay alive with 1 life point 
left (2-3+2), while you would be eliminated playing only one Beer 
that would allow you to regain just 1 life point. You would still be at zero!
Important note: Beer has no effect if there are only 2 players left in the game.
Draw!
Some cards (Barrel, Jail, Dynamite) show little poker suits and values, 
then an equal sign and then their effects. When you want to use such a 
card you must “draw!,” i.e., you have to flip over the top card of the 
deck, discard it, and look at the poker symbol in the lower left corner. 
If this flipped card shows a symbol (and value!) that matches, then 
the “draw!” was successful, and the effect of 
the card is resolved (the “draw!” card is always 
discarded without effect). Otherwise, nothing 
happens: bad luck! 
If a specific card value or range is specified on 
the card, then the “draw!” card must show a 
value within that range (including the pictured 
symbols), and the suit shown.

The value sequence is: 2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9-10-J-Q-K-A.
Example. C is the target of A’s BANG! C has a Barrel in play: this card lets 
him “draw!” to cancel a BANG! and it is successful on a Heart. C flips the 
top card of the deck and discards it: it’s a 4 of Hearts. The use of the Barrel is 
successful and cancels the BANG! If the flipped card were of a different suit, 
then the Barrel would have had no effect, but C could have still tried to cancel 
the BANG! with a Missed!.
THE SYMBOLS ON THE CARDS
Each card shows one or more symbols that show the effect(s) of 
the card. Cards with symbols on two lines have two simultaneous effects.
A BANG! (see BANG! and Missed!).
A Missed! (see BANG! and Missed!).
Regain one life point. Only the player playing this card 
benefits from this effect, unless otherwise stated.
Draw one card. If “any player” is specified (see that 
symbol), then you can draw a random card from his 
hand, or you can choose one in play in front of him. 
If no player is specified, draw the top card of the deck. 
In any case, cards drawn are added to your hand.
Force to discard a card. You can force a specified player to 
discard a random card from his hand, or you can choose 
and discard one card in play in front of him.
It specifies that you can apply the effect to any chosen 
player, regardless of the distance.
It specifies that the effect applies to all the other players
—i.e., not the player who played the card—, regardless of 
the distance.
It specifies that the effect applies to any one player, 
provided that he is within a reachable distance.
It specifies that the effect applies to any one player at a 
distance of the number or less. Note: Mustang and Scope 
can alter this distance, but weapons in play do not.
Examples.
Stagecoach / Wells Fargo. Symbols state 
“draw two cards” (three if you play
Wells Fargo) from the top of the deck.
Panic!. “Draw a card” from
“a player at distance 1.”
Cat Balou. Force “any one player”
to “discard a card.”
Gatling. The symbols show “a BANG!”
to “all the other players.” Note: even though
the Gatling shoots a BANG! to all the other players,
it is not considered a BANG! card.

Saloon. This has two simultaneous effects. The symbols say: 
“Regain one life point,” and this applies to “All the other players,” 
and on the next line: “[the player playing this card] regains one 
life point.” The overall effect is that all players in play regain 
one life point.
Special cards
There are several types of special cards. All of them have the 
Book symbol. These cards have special rules stated briefly on 
them; they are explained in detail here:
Dynamite: Play this card in front of you: the Dynamite will 
stay there for a whole turn. When you start your next turn 
(you have the Dynamite already in play), before the first 
phase you must “draw!”
• if you draw a card showing Spades and a number 
between 2 and 9, the Dynamite explodes! Discard it and 
lose 3 life points;
• otherwise, pass the Dynamite to the player on your left 
(who will “draw!” on his turn, etc.).
Players keep passing the Dynamite around until it explodes, with the 
effect explained above, or it is drawn or discarded by a Panic! or a 
Cat Balou. If you have both the Dynamite and a Jail in play, check the 
Dynamite first. If you are damaged (or even eliminated!) by a Dynamite, 
this damage is not considered to be caused by any player.
Duel: With this card you can challenge any other player 
(staring him in the eyes!), regardless of the distance. The 
challenged player may discard a BANG! card (even though 
it is not his turn!). If he does, you may discard a BANG! 
card, and so on: the first player failing to discard a BANG! 
card loses one life point, and the duel is over. You cannot 
play Missed! or use the Barrel during a duel. The Duel is not 
a BANG! card. BANG! cards discarded during a Duel are not accounted 
towards the “play 1 BANG! card” limitation.
General Store: when you play this card, turn as many cards 
from the deck face up as the players still playing. Starting 
with you and proceeding clockwise, each player chooses 
one of those cards and puts it in his hand.
Indians!: each player, excluding the one who played this 
card, may discard a BANG! card, or lose one life point. 
Neither Missed! nor Barrel have effect in this case.
Jail: Play this card in front of any player regardless of the 
distance: you put him in jail! If you are in jail, you must 
“draw!” before the beginning of your turn:
• if you draw a Heart card, you escape from jail: discard 
the Jail, and continue your turn as normal;
• otherwise discard the Jail and skip your turn.
If you are in Jail you remain a possible target for BANG! cards and 
can still play response cards (e.g. Missed! and Beer) out of your turn, if 
necessary. Jail cannot be played on the Sheriff.

THE CHARACTERS
Bart Cassidy (4 life points): each time he loses a life point, he 
immediately draws a card from the deck.
Black Jack (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he must show 
the second card he draws: if it’s Heart or Diamonds (just like a 
“draw!”), he draws one additional card (without revealing it).
Calamity Janet (4 life points): she can use BANG! cards as Missed! cards 
and vice versa. If she plays a Missed! as a BANG!, she cannot play 
another BANG! card that turn (unless she has a Volcanic in play).
El Gringo (3 life points): each time he loses a life point due to a card 
played by another player, he draws a random card from the hands of 
that player (one card for each life point). If that player has no more 
cards, too bad!, he does not draw. Note that Dynamite damages are 
not caused by any player.
Jesse Jones (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he may choose to 
draw the first card from the deck, or randomly from the hand of any 
other player. Then he draws the second card from the deck.
Jourdonnais (4 life points): he is considered to have a Barrel in play at 
all times; he can “draw!” when he is the target of a BANG!, and on a 
Heart he is missed. If he has another real Barrel card in play, he can 
count both of them, giving him two chances to cancel the BANG! 
before playing a Missed!.
Kit Carlson (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he looks at the 
top three cards of the deck: he chooses 2 to draw, and puts the other 
one back on the top of the deck, face down.
Lucky Duke (4 life points): each time he is required to “draw!,” he flips 
the top two cards from the deck, and chooses the result he prefers. 
Discard both cards afterwards.
Paul Regret (3 life points): he is considered to have a Mustang in play 
at all times; all other players must add 1 to the distance to him. If 
he has another real Mustang in play, he can count both of them, 
increasing all distances to him by a total of 2.
Pedro Ramirez (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he may 
choose to draw the first card from the top of the discard pile or from 
the deck. Then, he draws the second card from the deck.
Rose Doolan (4 life points): she is considered to have a Scope in play 
at all times; she sees the other players at a distance decreased by 1. 
If she has another real Scope in play, she can count both of them, 
reducing her distance to all other players by a total of 2.
Sid Ketchum (4 life points): at any time, he may discard 2 cards from 
his hand to regain one life point. If he is willing and able, he can 
use this ability more than once at a time. But remember: you cannot 
have more life points than your starting amount!
Slab the Killer (4 life points): players trying to cancel his BANG! cards 
need to play 2 Missed!. The Barrel effect, if successfully used, only 
counts as one Missed!.
Suzy Lafayette (4 life points): as soon as she has no cards in her hand, 
she draws a card from the draw pile.
Vulture Sam (4 life points): whenever a character is eliminated from 
the game, Sam takes all the cards that player had in his hand and in 
play, and adds them to his hand.
Willy the Kid (4 life points): he can play any number of BANG! cards 
during his turn.

A bullet-proof expansion for BANG!
Dodge City: a populous, chaotic, vibrant and... dangerous town! Its saloons are 
legendary, as are the characters stopping by. Attracted by the sudden richness 
of the city, bad guys walk the streets and shootouts appear on each day’s menu. 
Protecting Law and Order is a task only for the bravest of Sheriffs. Are you up 
to the challenge, or will you be visiting the world’s most famous Boot Hill?
CONTENTS
• 8 “role” cards;
• 15 character cards;
• 40 playing cards;
• 1 summary card.
This expansion (identifiable from a Bison in the upper right corner of 
the cards) features 15 new characters (which are shuffled together with 
the original ones), and 40 new cards (to be shuffled with the basic play-
ing cards). There are also 8 role cards, allowing you to play with eight 
players. The rules of the game remain the same as the original BANG! 
game, with the following additions:
GREEN BORDERED CARDS
 Some of the new cards have a green border. These cards are played 
in front of you, face up, like the blue-bordered cards. To use an effect, 
you must take the card from in front of you and discard it. However, 
you cannot use green bordered cards on the same turn in which you 
have played them. Each green-bordered card shows the symbols which 
explain its effect(s). Only the cards with a Missed! symbol can be used 
out of turn.
 Green bordered cards in front of the players are also defined to be “in 
play” and can be removed through the play of a Cat Balou, Panic!, Can 
Can, etc. just like the blue-bordered cards. 
 Note that if you take a green card with cards like Panic! or Rag Time, 
you cannot use it on the same turn: in fact, you must take the card into 
your hand, then you have to play it in front of you, and wait until the 
next turn to use it.
Example 1. You play a Sombrero in front of you. Starting with the 
next player’s turn, you can discard it for the Missed! effect.
Example 2. You play a Derringer in front of you. 
During one of your following turns, provided you still 
have the card in front of you, you can choose to discard 
it to cause a BANG! on a player at a distance of 1,
and also draw a card from the deck.
THE ‘DISCARD ANOTHER CARD’ SYMBOL
Some of the cards show this new symbol, followed by an 
equal sign and other symbols. In order to have the effect(s) 
shown after the equal sign, you must discard this card along 
with any other card of your choice from your hand.

Example 3. You play a Brawl, discarding another card from your 
hand, of your choice, in addition to the Brawl card. After doing so, 
the Brawl effect is to force all the other players to discard 
a card, either from his hand or from play, chosen by you 
(you can choose differently for each player).
Example 4. You play a Tequila, and discard an 
additional card. You choose any one player to regain
one life point (you can even choose yourself).
OTHER CARDS
In this expansion you will also find cards that are identical to cards 
in the basic game: these are added in order to keep the balance among 
different cards in the deck. You will also find cards that combine 
symbols you already know in different manners. Simply follow 
the meaning of the symbols shown to determine the card’s effects. 
Generally speaking, remember that:
• any card with a Missed! symbol 
can be 
used to cancel the effect of a card with a BANG! symbol
• when you are losing your last life point, you can only use a Beer to 
avoid being eliminated from the game. You cannot use other cards with 
similar effects such as Saloon, Canteen, Tequila, or Whisky out of turn
• you can only play 1 BANG! card per turn, but you can
play any number of other cards which show the symbol
• if the Dynamite does not explode, it must be passed to the first 
player to your left who does not already have 
a Dynamite in front of him (remember: no 
player can ever have two identical cards face 
up in front of him).
Example 5. In response to a Punch, you can play the 
Dodge: you cancel the Punch and then draw a card 
from the deck.
RULES FOR 8 PLAYERS
The expansion comes with 8 role cards which replace the original 
ones: 1 Sheriff, 2 Deputy, 3 Outlaw and 2 Renegade.
To play with 8 players, deal all these roles face down as usual. Each 
of the two Renegades plays on his own, and wins only if he is the last 
player alive. So, if in the final stages of the game the Sheriff is confronted 
by two Renegades, and the Sheriff is killed first, the Outlaws win!
SPECIAL RULES FOR 3 PLAYERS
Take these 3 role cards: Deputy, Outlaw, and Renegade. Give one 
of them randomly to each player, but place them face up on the table. 
Everyone knows the role of all three players.
The goal of each player is determined by his role:
• the Deputy must kill the Renegade;
• the Renegade must kill the Outlaw;
• the Outlaw must kill the Deputy.
The game plays as usual, beginning with the Deputy.
You win as soon as you reach your goal, if you shot the final hit to 
your target (e.g., as a Deputy you must personally kill the Renegade).
If the other player dealt the final hit, then the goal for both survivors 
is to be the last man standing. For example, if the Outlaw killed the 
Renegade, then the Deputy did not win—he must now kill the Outlaw, 
who must in turn kill the Deputy in order to win.
However, any player who personally kills another one (regardless of 
his role) immediately draws 3 cards from the deck as a reward.
As there is no Sheriff, the Jail can be played on anyone.
Beer still has no effect when there are only 2 players left.

THE NEW CHARACTERS
Apache Kid (3 life points): he is unaffected by cards from the suit of 
Diamonds played by the other players. During a Duel, his ability 
does not work.
Belle Star (4 life points): during her turn, no card in front of any other 
player has any effect. This applies both to the blue- as well as to the 
green-bordered cards.
Bill Noface (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he draws 1 card, 
plus 1 card for each injury (lost life point) he currently suffers. So, if 
he is at full life, he draws 1 card; with one life point less, he draws 
2 cards; with two life points less, he draws 3 cards, and so forth.
Chuck Wengam (4 life points): during his turn, he can choose to lose 
1 life point to draw 2 cards from the deck. He may also use this 
ability more than once in the same turn; however, he cannot choose 
to lose his last life point this way.
Doc Holyday (4 life points): once during his turn, he can discard any 
two cards from his hand for the effect of a BANG! against a player 
within range of his weapon. This ability does not count towards his 
limit of one BANG! card per turn. To hit Apache Kid in this way, at 
least one of the two discarded cards must not be a Diamond.
Elena Fuente (3 life points): she can use any card in her hand as 
a Missed!.
Greg Digger (4 life points): each time another character is eliminated, 
he regains 2 life points. As usual, he cannot exceed his initial 
number of life points in this way.
Herb Hunter (4 life points): each time another character is eliminated, 
he draws 2 extra cards from the deck. So, if he kills an Outlaw 
himself, he draws 5 cards.
José Delgado (4 life points): during his turn he can discard a blue-
bordered card from his hand to draw 2 cards from the deck. 
He may use this ability twice per turn.
Molly Stark (4 life points): each time she plays or voluntarily discards 
a card when it is not her turn (e.g. Missed!, Beer, or BANG! during 
Indians!), she draws one card from the deck. If she discards a BANG! 
during a Duel, she does not draw her replacement cards until the 
end of the Duel, when she would draw one card for each BANG! she 
used during the Duel. Cards that she is forced to discard due to cards 
like Cat Balou, Brawl, or Can-Can are not considered voluntarily 
discarded!
Pat Brennan (4 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he may choose 
to draw the usual two cards from the deck, or, instead draw one card 
(and this one card only) from in play and add it to his hand.
 The card can be in front of any player, and can be either a blue-
bordered card or a green-bordered card.
Pixie Pete (3 life points): during phase 1 of his turn, he draws 3 cards 
instead of 2.
Sean Mallory (3 life points): in phase 3 of his turn, he can hold up to 
10 cards in his hand. He does not have to discard any cards if he has 
more cards than the number of life points he has left, but less than 11.
Tequila Joe (4 life points): each time he plays a Beer, he regains 2 life 
points instead of 1. He only regains 1 life point from similar cards 
like Saloon, Tequila, or Canteen.
Vera Custer (3 life points): at the beginning of her turn, before drawing 
any cards (in phase 1), she chooses any other character still in play. 
Until her next turn, she has the same ability as that character.

High Noon
and
A Fistful of Cards
In the Wild West, the shootouts between the Outlaws and the Sheriff are 
becoming particularly tough. Players must be ready to welcome the judge, keep 
cool during the gold rush and be really careful when walking in the ghost town!
Contents: 15 cards for each of the two expansions.
High Noon and A Fistful of Cards are two BANG! expansions
—identiﬁ able from the different back and different border—that play 
with the same rules.
The game proceeds as normal BANG! with these changes: the Sheriff 
chooses either the first or the second expansion, he sets aside the High 
Noon card (or A Fistful of Cards if playing with the second one), and 
shuffles the remaining cards, separate from the regular cards, face 
down. Then, he puts the set aside card on top. Finally, he flips the 
stack face up and places it near himself.
Starting with his second turn, the Sheriff, before taking his turn, 
removes the first card off the stack (taking care so that only the next 
card is revealed): he reads the card aloud, and then puts it in the center 
of the table creating a new pile. The card on top of this pile is now in 
play, and players must follow its effects until it is covered by a new card.
“At the start of his turn” means the card takes effect before any other 
action.
The last card of the stack—High Noon or A Fistful of Cards—stays in 
effect until the game ends.
You can use these two expansions together. The Sheriff sets High Noon 
and A Fistful of Cards aside; he shuffles the remaining cards together, 
face down, then randomly draws twelve of them (more if you wish a 
longer game). Then he randomly chooses one of the set aside cards 
and places it on top of the stack. Finally, he flips the stack face up and 
places it near himself.
BANG!® - The Bullet™, II edition:
BANG!® - IV edition
DODGE CITY™ - III edition
HIGH NOON™ - II edition
A FISTFUL OF CARDS™ - II edition
Copyright © MMIX
daVinci Editrice S.r.l. 
Via Bozza, 8
I-06073 Corciano (PG), Italy
www.dvgiochi.com - info@dvgiochi.com
Game idea: Emiliano Sciarra
Development: Roberto Corbelli, Domenico Di Giorgio
Illustrations: Alessandro Pierangelini, Toni Cittadini, Eriadan
Art Direction: Stefano De Fazi
Rules editing: Roberto Corbelli, Andrés J. Voicu, William Niebling
Special thanks to: Roberta Barletta, Annalisa Sciarra.
Dodge City, High Noon, A Fistful of Cards, The Bullet are trademarks. BANG!, dV GIOCHI and the dV GIOCHI 
logo are registered trademarks of daVinci Editrice S.r.l. All rights reserved.