This game will be a new experience. You are about to become a character in a story - a story that changes
each game. You are the Barbarian Prince. This is a solitaire game; you play it alone. In this "story game" you
read one numbered section after another. Each describes a new situation, or provides rules about the choices
and actions you can make. There are hundreds of events and situation, so each game will be a new, fresh
experience.
The sections are divided into events (e000 numbers) that advance the "plot" of the story, and rules/reference
(r000 numbers) sections that describe situations or choices that often occur.
You can learn this game as you play, simply start with the first event (e001) and read each section as
necessary. For convenience, all the rules are collected together in the beginning of this booklet, and the major
charts and tables provided on a special sheet. The most important rules sections are r203, r204, r215, r220,
and r225. You may wish to briefly review these first, if you wish to understand the basic mechanics of play
before you start. If you are an experienced gamer, you can read all the rules sections first (r201 to r228), and
then just refer to them later as you play.
The small metal token is used to mark your current location on the map.
How to Play
Barbarian Prince is a realistic adventure game. You play the game in days. Each day starts with you selecting
an action (r203), such as travelling to a new hex on the map. Depending on the action selected, you will be
referred to a chart, where you roll one or two dice. The dice roll and chart may then indicate a special event
section, which you then resolve.
After all events (if any) are resolved for your daily action, you must then eat your main (evening) meal, as
described in the food rules (r215), and if in a town, castle, or temple hex, you must also purchase lodging
(r217).
This ends the day, and you continue play with the start of the next day, where you select another action, etc.
The game continues until either you are killed, or 70 days (10 weeks) elapse. If you haven't won after 70 days,
the game is automatically lost!
Many events may lead to fighting, described in the combat rules (r220). You may also have additional
characters (r201) join your "party." These additional characters are especially useful in fights, although some
may have special knowledge or abilities useful in certain events. Magicians, wizards, witches, priests and
monks are especially useful people to have in your party.
All events are self explanatory, and refer to the main rules section that describes how they are resolved. Once
you've read the rules a couple of times you won't need to refer to them again unless you have a specific
question. Remember, Barbarian Prince is a realistic game, so when in doubt about a situation, imagine yourself
acting out the event in real life, and select the resolution that seems most realistic to you.
To start the game, go to event e001.
About the Game Equipment
This game includes a rules and reference booklet (with sections r200 and up), and events booklet (sections
e001 to e195), a colour mapboard, a metal token representing the Barbarian Prince (yourself), and two dice
(each is a "die," together they are "dice.")

Booklets: each booklet contains numbered sections. These numbers are not necessarily consecutive; some
numbers have been skipped. For example, e001 to e163 are events, e180 to e195 possessions or references
to them, r200 and up rules sections, and r300 and up references to rules that recur in many situations.
Mapboard: the colour mapboard is gridded into hexagons for ease in movement and location. Each hex has a
four-digit identification code. Partial map hexes are playable territory. You do not leave the mapboard, instead
stop at the edge and use that hex instead. Each hex has a single dominant terrain type, illustrated on the game
map key. Some hexes may have extra structures in them, such as towns, castles, temples, ruins, and/or roads.
Rivers run along hexsides, between the hexes.
Game Tracks: there are two record tracks, one for "Food Supply" and one for "Time." Use a small coin to mark
your current status on each. For example, if you have 47 food units, place a coin on the "40" and one on the "7"
boxes. You start the game on the 1st day of the 1st week. When you finish the 7th day of a week, advance the
week marker and return to the 1st day again. The game ends after the 7th day of the 10th week.
Token: your metal token can mar the map if used carelessly. We suggest you glue a small piece of cardboard
or felt to the underside, to preserve the life of your mapboard, although a coating of varnish protects map. You
can also paint the token for a more realistic and attractive appearance. Consult your local hobby shop for
Heritage paints and techniques for painting metal figurines, or write directly to Heritage USA, 14001 Distribution
Way, Dallas, Texas 75234 and include a stamped, self-addressed envelope and request "basic painting
techniques and information."
Other Equipment: you'll need a pencil and paper to keep track of information about your characters, finds and
other members of your party, etc. You will also use this to record how much money you have. Some players
prefer to use spare change to represent money in the game, with one cent representing one gold piece in the
game.
Edge of the Game Map
During the game, the Barbarian Prince cannot leave the game map. If an event or rule would normally land him
off the map, he simply stops at the map edge instead. In other cases, rumoured treasures and other locations
may be off the game map, in which case they are inaccessible to the Barbarian Prince, and are ignored.
Credits
Barbarian Prince is copyright 1981 by Heritage USA. Designed and developed by Arnold Hendrick, Cover
painting by Frank Cirocco, map, rule illustrations and graphics by Cynthia Sims Millan, typography by Arnold
Hendrick, figure design by Max Carr, map hexgrid and number system courtesy of Simulations Publications, inc.

r201 Characters
Each character in the game has a combat skill, an endurance value, and a wealth code. Each is rated
numerically, with higher numbers being better. If no wealth code is given, it is presumed to be zero (no wealth).
The characters include yourself (the Barbarian Prince, see r202), any followers who join your "party," and any
men, women, creatures or animals encountered in the course of the game. Characters can be friendly or
hostile, intelligent or unintelligent.
When a character joins your party, note his (or her) vital statistics as needed. You can voluntarily dismiss or
abandon members of your party if you wish (sometimes expedient when making an escape, or when food or
money is short). Other characters encountered during events need not be permanently recorded. Unless they
join your party, these other characters simply go on their way, and "disappear" from the game.
To determine your own personal characteristics at the start of the game, see r202.
r202 Your Character
You begin play as the Barbarian Prince, Cal Arath, rightful heir to the throne of the Northlands Kingdom. Few
humans can match your skill with trusty Bonebiter, your broadsword: you have combat skill 8. Life in the harsh
northlands has developed your powerful body and magnificent physique: you have endurance 9. Alas, in
making your escape, you could only grab a few coins; your wealth code is 2 (see r225 for determine exactly
how many gold pieces your have).
In addition, you have a "wit & wiles" rating, reflecting your ability to react quickly to situations, think your way out
of trouble, and convince people. Roll one die to determine this "wit & wiles." If the result is 1, consider it 2
instead. If you have played the game before and won, you may wish an extra challenge by using a wit & wiles
rating one less than your previous value; if you lost before, use a wit & wiles one higher than the previous value.
r203 Daily Actions
At the start of each day, you select one action for yourself. All other followers in your party will perform the same
action (support and helping you) - they can't be trusted to act on their own! Each action has separate rules,
described in the appropriate section. Possible actions include:
Actions allowed in any hex -
 Rest in current hex, to heal wounds (r222) and improve hunting (r215)
 Travel to a new hex (r204), your most common choice
 Search for a previously placed cache (r214)
Actions allowed only in certain types of hexes -
 Seek News & Information (r209) in town, castle, or temple
 Seek to Hire Followers (r210) in town or castle
 Seek Audience with local lord (r211) in town, castle or temple
 Submit Offering (r212) at temple
 Search in a Ruins (r208) in a ruins only
Each action has its own rules and tables, which often reference an event section, and perhaps an encounter
with new characters, or special dangers. After you finish all these events, at the end of the day you must
provide food for your entire party, see r215. If you are in a town, castle, or temple you must purchase lodging
too in many cases, see r217.

After all actions, events, food and lodging are resolved, the day ends. Advance the markers on the time track to
the next day, and start it by selecting another action. This continues until the end of the 10th week, when the
game ends.
The game ends sooner if the Barbarian Prince is killed. Better luck next time!
You can continue to perform the same action day after day, or you can vary actions, as you desire. Normally
you are limited to just one action per day, but some action events allow you a bonus action that same day.
Other times you may be required to advance the time track forward a certain number of days, skipping any
opportunity for actions.
r204 Travel
You can travel to new hexes as a daily action (r203). You travel by moving your token across the map, hex by
hex. You can’t skip or jump any hex unless a special event allows it.
Travel Speeds (r204a): if any character in your party is without a mount (on foot), the entire party travels "on
foot" at the speed of one hex per day. If everyone in your party is mounted (presumably on horses, mules, or
similar beasts), the party as a whole can travel either one or two hexes per day. If the entire party is riding
winged mounts, the party can instead use airborne travel up to three hexes per day. When airborne, the party
flies for the entire day, and lands in the land hex entered to camp for the night. If your party has winged mounts,
you can instead ride or "short hop" one or two hexes per day, as if you were mounted in the normal fashion. In
this case, you enter each hex on the ground.
Getting Lost (see r205): each time you try to leave a hex, you may get lost. See r205 for details. If you get lost,
you are unable to get out of the hex by the chosen route, and are stuck for the rest of the day in the hex where
you started. You cannot select an alternate action.
Travel Events (r204b): each time you attempt to enter a new hex, an event may occur. Find the terrain type
you attempted to enter on the Travel Table (r207) and read to the "Event" column. Roll two dice. If the total
equals or exceeds the number listed, an event occurs. Roll one die and read across to the proper "Event
Reference" number listed for that die roll. Then go that event section.
Roads (r204c): if you leave a hex via a road, you can never get lost — you are following the road. Use the
"Road" line on the Travel Table (r207) for new events. If no road travel event occurs, then consult the Travel
Table again for an event in the terrain you entered, consulting the proper line for the type of terrain in the hex. If
a road event does occur, you need not consult the table again for a normal "terrain" travel event unless you
wish.
Airborne Travel (r204d): if you are flying (not short-hopping), each hex entered requires that you use the
"airborne" line on the Travel Table, instead of the normal line for that terrain type. In the last hex you enter for
the day, if no airborne travel event occurs, then you must consult a normal "terrain" type event for the hex
where you land (last hex entered). Unlike road travel, the terrain type event must be consulted for the hex
where you finally land (which, due to airborne events, might be different from where you intended to land!).
River Crossing (r204e): if your travel takes you over a river, you must first consult the Travel Table (r207) for
getting over the river without getting lost (r205), and then for a possible event crossing the river, by using the
"River" line of the table. If this doesn’t prevent you from crossing, you then enter the hex on the other side,
check for getting lost moving into that hex, and any travel events for the terrain entered there. If you are flying,
you can fly over a river and ignore all crossing problems (do not check for getting lost crossing the river, and do
not check for river crossing events).
Travel Events & Time (r204f): an event that occurs during travel will normally consume the rest of the day.
You cannot move any further that day, unless the event allows or requires some sort of extra movement. The
only exception is events that are resolved purely through combat (r220), and you killed all those encountered. In
addition, events were just talk or negotiate occurred only take a few minutes. You can continue travel
afterwards if you have any speed remaining, and wish to continue.

Transport (see r206): for rules about carrying gold, food, etc., see section r206 for transport capacities and
procedures.
r205 Lost
Each time you attempt to leave a hex (travel to a new hex) there is a danger of becoming lost. Consult the
Travel Table (r207) and find the terrain type you are leaving. Read across to the "Lost" column entry. Roll two
dice. If the dice total equals or exceeds the number there, your party is lost. If you move more than one hex in
the day, you must check for getting lost before each move (before you enter each hex).
If you get lost, you cannot further that day. You are stuck in the hex you tried to leave. You must check for a
travel event (see r205b) in the hex you tried to enter, as if you actually entered it. This reflects you wandering
around on the edges of the new hex and perhaps encountering something.
Local Guide (r205a): your party of followers may include a guide. If it does, subtract one (-1) from your dice roll
for getting lost. This means it is more difficult to get lost if you have a guide. However, if you get lost despite
your guide, roll one die. If the result is "4" or higher, the guide deserts out of mortification for his failure, or in
fear of your anger! If you have more than one guide, only one will desert (the one you selected as guide for the
day), but you are still lost even if you have additional guides available.
Self-Guiding Moves (r205b): if your party is leaving a hex by travelling along a road, you can never get lost. If
you are travelling by raft (r213, only allowed as a result of certain special events) you cannot get lost. There is
no need to roll dice for getting lost, although travel events can still occur.
Airborne & Lost (r205c): if your party is flying (using an airborne move), use the airborne line on the Travel
Table (r207) instead of the normal terrain line, to see whether you are lost. If you get lost while making airborne
travel, there is danger of extra "wander" and "drift." Roll one die, if the result is 4 or more, roll one die again and
move one hex in that direction (1-N, 2-NE, 3-SE, 4-S, 5-SW, 6-NW) before landing.
River Crossing (r205d): if your party is trying to cross a river, first check to see if you get lost in the crossing. If
you do, this represents an inability to find a proper crossing place (ford, place to swim, materials for a raft, etc.).
There is no travel event afterwards. If you are following a road or airborne; you can cross a river automatically.
Crossing by road implies that a permanent bridge exists there (such as one between hexes 1318 and 1319).
Once you cross the river, you must still check for getting lost in the terrain of the new hex you are trying to
enter. If you get lost after you cross the river, you count as across the river, but are still in the hex where you
started the move. Tomorrow you can try again to enter a hex on the opposite side of the river. For example, if
you start in 1017, try to cross to 1118, and cross the river but get lost going into 1118, you end your move back
in 1017. However, you are now over the river, so tomorrow you can try to enter either 1016, 1117 or 1118,
which are all over the river, and next to the place where you start.
r206 Transport
When travelling, any food, gold, and possessions acquired by events must be carried. Many of these items
have a weight, in "loads." You can only carry a certain number of loads. Anything else must be left behind.
Objects left behind can be placed in a "cache" (see r214 for details).
Weights (r206a): each food unit counts as one (1) load. Every 100 gold pieces, or fraction thereof, counts as
one (1) load. Each person carried counts as twenty (20) loads. Weapons do not count as loads.
Transport Capacities (r206b): each man on foot, including porters, can carry up to 10 loads. Two men
combined can therefore carry 20. Any mount can carry 30 loads, or a man riding plus 10 loads (since the man
counts as 20).
Note: For r207 Travel Table see separate sheet

r208 Searching a Ruins
As a daily action, you spend the day searching a ruin with your party. To see what happens during your search,
roll two dice: 2-e133; 3-e135; 4-e136; 5-e137; 6-e139;7-e131;8-e132;9-e134;10-e138; 11-e135; 12-e035.
r209 Seeking News & Information
In this daily action, you spend the day in taverns, streets and the market talking and learning. Roll two dice and
consult the list below for results. If you spend 5 or more gold pieces, add one (+1) to your dice roll. If your wit &
wiles is 5 or higher, add one (+1) also to your dice roll.
No news of note, nothing seems to be happening.
Discover thieves' den, pillage it while they're out, gain 50 gold.
Rumours of secret rites at nearest temple, when making offerings (r212) there add one (+1) to
your dice roll from now on.
Feel at home, learning nothing, but in the future always add one (+1) whenever resolving this
action (r209) or Seeking to Hire (r210) in this hex.
A large caravan is in town; if you visit them today, see e129.
Discover cheaper lodgings and food, pay half normal price in this hex
A cutpurse picks your pocket; you lose half your wealth.
Attract attention of local constabulary; see e050.
Discover residence of local magician. If you visit him today, see e016 with a friendly approach.
Discover local thieves' guild, you are "invited" to join. If you do, participate in a theft of 200 gold
tonight after dinner (r215). You must escape (r218) tonight after the job. If you pay the guild
10% (20 gold) after the theft you can return to the hex later in the game, otherwise the guild is
angered and you can never return to this hex.
Secret informant offers valuable information for 10 gold. If you buy it, roll one die: 1-bogus
secrets prove worthless; 2-e147; 3-e143; 4-e144; 5-e145; 6-e146.
r210 Seeking to Hire Followers
In this daily action, you spend the day posting notices, visiting agents and merchants, and inquiring at taverns
about the availability of hired help. Roll two dice and consult the list below for results.
Freeman joins your part at no cost (except food and lodging), he is combat skill 3, endurance 4.
Lancer with a horse can be hired for 3 gold per day, he is combat skill 5, endurance 5.
One or two mercenaries can be hired for 2 gold per day each. Each is combat skill 4, endurance
4.
Horse dealer in area, you can buy horses (for mounts) at 10 gold each.
Local guide available (see r205), hires for 2 gold per day, has combat skill 2, endurance 3.
Henchmen available, roll one die for the number available for hire, each is combat skill 3,
endurance 3, and costs 1 gold per day each.
Slave market, see e163.
Nothing available, but you gain some news and information, see r209 but subtract one (-1) from
your dice roll there.
Honest horse dealer in area, can buy horses (for mounts) at 7 gold each.
Runaway boy or girl joins your party at no cost (except food and lodging), has combat skill 1,
endurance 3.
Porters in any quantity available, hire for ½ gold each per day. In addition, a local guide (r205)
can be hired for 2 gold per day, has combat skill 1, endurance 2.

r211 Seeking an Audience with the local Lord
As a daily action, you spend the day trying to gain admission to the hall or court, for an interview with the town
mayor, high priest of the temple, or the castle lord. Roll two dice and consult the appropriate table below.
Seeking an Audience at any Town:
Grievously insult the town council, e062.
A slanderous aside about the mayor's wife is blamed on you, e060.
Meet hostile guards, e158.
6,7,8
9,10
Audience permitted, el56.
Meet daughter of the mayor, e154.
Audience permitted, e156.
Seeking an Audience at any Temple:
Note: if your party includes any priests or monks, add one (+1) to your dice roll; if your party includes any
magicians, wizards, or witches you must either dismiss all of them, or subtract two (—2) from your dice roll.
Anger temple guards, e063.
Priestess resents a lewd remark, e060.
Encounter hostile guards, e158.
Must purify yourself, e159
Allowed audience if you give temple a Dragon's eye, go to e155; otherwise you must deal
with the Master of the Household, e153.
Permitted to pay your respects, e250
You must purify yourself, e159.
11+
Audience permitted, e155.

Seeking an Audience with the Baron of Huldra Castle (1212)
Note: add one (+1) to your dice roll if you dismiss any wizard, magician, or witch in your party (to take service
with the Baron instead).
Audience permanently refused, cannot try again.
Meet Baron's Daughter, e154.
Must learn court manners, e149.
Confronted by hostile guards, e158.
6,7
10,11 Pay your respects to the Baron, e150. 
Find favour in the eyes of the Baron, e151. 
13+
Baron becomes your Noble ally, e152.
Seeking an Audience with Count Drogat of Drogat Castle (0323)
You are the Count's next victim; see e061.
The Captain of the Guard dislikes your haircut; see e062.
Meet the daughter of the Count, e154.
Confronted by hostile guards, e158.
Gain an audience (e161) if you give the Roc's Beak to the Doorman; otherwise you are deemed
unworthy and unwise, and are arrested (e060).
Must learn court manners, e149.
Find favour in the eyes of the Count, e151.
11+ Audience granted with Count, e161.
Seeking an Audience with Lady Aeravir of Aeravir Castle (1923)
You insult the Lady's dignity, arrested e060.
You must purify yourself first, e159.
Untoward remark makes the guards hostile, e158.
Must learn better court manners, e149.
Meet the Master of the Household, e153.
Gain an audience (e160) if you give the Griffon's Claw, otherwise audience refused but you may
try again.
Audience refused, but you may try again.
Audience granted, e160.
Meet daughter of the Lady Aeravir, e154. 
12+ Audience granted, e160.

r212 Make at Offering at a Temple
You spend the day preparing, waiting in line, and finally giving an offering at the temple altar. This action is only
permitted at a temple. You must spend at least one gold piece for proper herbs and sacrifice. If you spend ten
gold pieces for exceptionally fine herbs and sacrifices, add one (+1) to your dice roll result. To determine the
result, roll two dice:
You commit a magnificent error in the rites, the entire temple becomes impure and abandoned,
no longer functions as a temple for the rest of the game. You are arrested and sentenced to
death, e061.
Good Omens, but no special result.
Bad Omens, you are travelling under a curse. Roll one die for each of your followers, any result
except a "1" means they believe the omens and immediately desert you. You cannot seek to hire
any followers (r210) in this hex for the rest of the game.
High Priest insulted by your northern manners, arrested e060.
Good Omens, you get free food (r215) and lodging (r217) tonight.
Favourable Omens for further worship, if you try this Offerings action again tomorrow, you can
add one (+1) to your dice roll. Otherwise no effect.
Gods favour your questions, priests assign a monk to your party. The monk has combat skill 2,
endurance 3, serves as a guide when leaving this or any adjacent hex only.
Special omen and riddle provides a clue to treasures, see e147.
Fall in love with priestess (see r229). You immediately escape (r218) with her and can never
return to this hex. She is combat skill 2, endurance 4, and has wealth 100 in temple treasures she
has stolen!
The High Priest requires an audience with you; see e155.
12, 13
High Priest spends afternoon talking with you, provides you with final clues to some secret
information, roll one die: 1,2-e144; 3,4-e145; 5,6-e146. Alternately, instead of the secret
information, you can use his influence in attempting Offerings again tomorrow, and add three (+3)
to your dice roll here.
14+
Gods declare your cause a religious crusade, and the Staff of Command is passed into your
hands. If you bring this possession to any hex north of the Tragoth River you will command
instant obedience throughout the Northlands, regain your throne and win the game. In the
meantime you are given a pair of warrior monks (combat skill 5, endurance 6) with mounts to join
your party and help you return northward.
r213 Rafting on the Rivers
You have the special option of using raft travel along the river, instead of normal travel each day. When raft
travel is available, you ride the raft until you get off (by selecting a daily action other than raft travel), or when
you roll "12" with two dice after each day's travel The latter represents the raft reaching a stopping point for
lengthy loading, unloading, or dismantling.
While on a raft you travel on the" river hexsides themselves. Your speed is either three hexsides per day
downriver, or two hexsides per day upriver. At the end of the day, the raft halts for the night and you camp on
either hex adjacent to the hexside where travel ended. You can select which hex. After travelling the hexsides,
check once for a travel event (r204) on the Travel Table (r207) under "Rafting", and then check once for an
event in the hex where you halt for the night.
The Tragoth River flows from east to west. The Nesser River flows from north to south, and the Dienstal Branch
feeds into it, flowing from the marsh into the Nesser. The Largos River flows out of the marsh toward the
northeast off the mapboard.

r214 Cache
If you leave possessions or money behind as your party travels, you can put this in a "hidden cache". This
represents burying them, hiding them with friendly citizens, under a magic or holy spell, etc. Food may never be
cached; it is too perishable. Gold and any other possessions may be cached unless otherwise indicated. Note
the hex where you made the cache, and what was in it.
Later in the game, you can return to the cache hex, and try to find it again. It takes a completely daily operation
to relocate your cache (r203). The action includes a possible event in the terrain of the hex where you search
(r207). If you get passed that event, then roll one die:
1,2,3,4 Cache is found intact; you recover all items placed there.
You are unable to find the cache, landmarks have disappeared, but you can try again in the
future.
You find the cache, but it has been looted, there is nothing there.
r215 Food
After the actions, events and encounters for the day are finished; you and your party must eat their main meal.
This may include hunting for food, using food stores, or purchasing a meal (if in a town, castle or temple). Any
mounts (animals) with your party may also required food. If you cannot feed any follower or animal, consult the
starvation (r216) rules.
Food Units (r215a): for convenience, food is counted in "units." Each unit is sufficient to feed one man for one
day. Mounts require two units per day if they are unable to forage for their own fodder. If there is no water
available (in a desert hex with no oasis) then the food requirement doubles for men and mounts, to represent
the need to carry water supplies also.
Hunting (r215b): if you are in a farmland, countryside, forest, hill or swamp hex you can hunt for food. Any one
character in your party can be the hunter. Total his combat skill and half (Vz) his current endurance (his
endurance minus wounds), round fractions down, and then subtract from that the roll of two dice. The result is
the number of food units gained by hunting. If the character can act as a guide, add one to the total. If the total
is zero or less, then the hunting was unsuccessful. If the dice roll was "12" exactly, the hunter himself was hurt,
regardless of success or failure, roll one die for the number of wounds he suffered. If knocked unconscious or
killed, the hunt automatically fails and the hunter dies unless hunting with others.
If your party rested today in the hex, you can send additional characters to hunt. Each additional character
hunting adds one (+1) to the skill + endurance level of your hunt. The actual skill and endurance of the
additional hunters is not counted. However, if the additional hunters are guides, for each guide, add one (+1)
extra as well.
Populated Regions & Hunting (r215c): if you hunt in a farmland hex, each time roll one die for a possible
event, which occurs after the hunt is finished, but before the evening meal is eaten: 1,2,3,4-nothing; 5-peasant
mob in pursuit, see e017; 6-pursued by constabulary, see e050 add two (+2) to the die roll in that event.
Hunting is prohibited in any hex with a town, castle, or temple.
Purchased Meals (r215d): if you are in a town, castle, or village you can purchase food for each character in
your party. Normal cost is 1 gold piece per character for food that day. Animals cost 1 gold piece per day to
feed at the stables of the town/castle/village. If you don't purchase food, you must eat stores, as hunting is
prohibited in these hexes.
Food Stores (r215e): food units can be stored and transported (r206) by yourself, other characters, and/or
mounts. Food stores can be purchased in a town, castle or village for 1 gold piece per food unit, but only if you
spent the entire day in the hex. Each food unit is one (1), load to transport.

Animal Fodder (r215f): animals can graze and eat fodder for themselves in any terrain where hunting is
possible except swamps (i.e., in farmland, countryside, forest, or hills). No hunting, stores or purchases are
necessary. If you spend the entire day in a town, castle or temple hex you must stable your animals which cost
one (1) gold piece for food, unless you provide the stable with food stores (two units per animal) to feed them.
Note: the cost of food is separate from the cost of lodging. In towns, castles and temples you must also pay for
lodging; see r217.
r216 Starvation
If you cannot provide food each day for characters or mounts, starvation will begin to affect their loyalty and
performance.
Follower Starvation (r216a): if followers are not fed, they may desert. Roll two dice for each follower, and
subtract your wit & wiles from the total. If the result is 4 or more the character deserts your party. Otherwise he
stays and suffers from the character starvation effects (see r216b below). If you have food units, or money to
purchase it (in a town, castle or temple) you cannot voluntarily withhold food from your followers unless you go
without yourself as well. If there is insufficient food for all, either you withhold it from all (including yourself) or
share out what is available to all (this prevents the effects of character starvation in r216b, but does not
eliminate the risk of desertion described above).
Character Starvation (r216b): if a character goes, without food for a day, on the following day his ability to
carry loads (r206) is halved, with fractions rounded down, and his combat skill is reduced by one. If he goes
without food again, load carrying and combat skill is reduced again. When food is available and eaten again,
each day's normal meal also eliminates the effect of one day of starvation. A double meal can be eaten to
eliminate the effect of two days of starvation, but triple or larger meals have no additional effect. A character
cannot die of starvation within the scope of the game, but after a certain point progressive starvation makes him
nearly worthless!
Mount Starvation; if animals (mounts) in the party go without food, their carrying capacity is halved for each
day of starvation, just like characters. When carrying capacity reaches zero, the mount dies. If a winged mount
goes without food, it is unable to fly. Unlike characters, as soon as a mount gets a normal meal, it recovers from
all starvation effects.
r217 Lodging in Towns, Castles and Temples
If your party finishes the day in a town, castle or temple hex, after eating you normally buy lodging for your
party. Each room costs one gold piece for the night. You and any priests, monks, magicians, wizards, or
witches in your party each require a single room. All other followers can share, two per room, if you wish.
Animals are placed in stables at one gold piece per mount.
If you decide to not purchase rooms (due to lack of funds, or a desire to save money), you must roll two dice for
each character in your party, and then subtract your wit & wiles from the result. If the total is "4" or more, the
character deserts - he refuses to serve such a penurious leader! If a mount is without stables, roll one die for
each mount, a 4 or higher means thieves steal the mount during the night, it is permanently lost.
r218 Escape & Hiding
Many times an event leads to your party escaping or hiding from characters encountered in an event.
Escape (r218a): When your party escapes, you move randomly to one of the six adjacent hexes. Roll one die
to determine which direction to go:
1-N, 2-NE, 3-SE, 4-S, 5-SW, 6-NW. Your party is now in that hex for the rest of the day. No new event occurs
because you have entered that hex, but any events still pending must be determined, and after all event effects
are resolved, you must eat for the day (r215).

Escapes across a river are prohibited, roll again for another route. However, if your entire party has winged
mounts able to fly, you can fly over the river and escape that way, do not roll again. Similarly, you cannot
escape off the map, roll again for a different direction.
Hiding (r218b): sometimes your party escapes an encounter by hiding. In this case, you remain in the hex of
the event, but are hiding there for the rest of the day. No further travel is possible, nor can you do any other
actions. You cannot hunt for food (r215) while hiding, but mounts can forage for their fodder (r215) in the right
types of terrain. While in hiding you still eat (r215) and lodge (r217) normally in a town, castle or temple.
r219 Following
In some events, you may secretly follow, or "trail" the characters you encounter. If you encounter mounted
characters, your party must be mounted to follow; if you encountered winged, flying characters your party must
have winged mounts to follow.
When you follow, roll one die to determine which direction the chase will lead: 1-N, 2-NE, 3-SE, 4-S, 5-SW, 6-
NW. Your party moves to that hex during the day. All remaining normal travel or actions during the day are
ended (even if uncompleted) because you are following instead.
Next, consult the event that permitted to following to see what happens next. This normally requires another die
or dice roll.
Sometimes after you follow characters to one hex, you may be required to follow them again before the day
ends. In this case, roll the die once more for direction. Unless events indicate otherwise, after a day following
the characters you must either attack them in combat (r306) or leave them alone and abandon the chase in
order to make your own camp and have your evening meal (r215).
r220 Combat
When your character and your party must "fight" characters encountered, these combat rules are used:
Combat Procedure (r220a): Combat is fought in rounds, and continues until one side escapes or is wiped out.
At the start of each round, you decide which of your characters will face each character encountered. After the
opponents are matched against each other, then all characters on one side strike, and results are applied,
followed by all characters on the other side striking back, and results are applied. You and your characters may
strike first or second each round, depending on the circumstances of the event.
Selecting Opponents (r220b): each character in your party is matched against one encountered character.
Each should select a different enemy. If one side has extra characters, you decide which the extra face. They
can all face one opponent, or each can face a different one, provided each character has at least one opponent
to face.
Strikes (r220c): When facing multiple opponents, a character can strike at only one each round, but can select
which one to strike against. If two or more characters both face an opponent, both strike at him, but each strike
is resolved separately. 
To resolve a strike, take the combat skill of the striker, and subtract from it the combat skill of the target
character. If the target has better skill, the result will be a negative number. Next roll two dice, and add the
result of the skill comparison to the dice roll. Finally, add or subtract any special modifiers that apply to the total.
These special modifiers are:
+2
Target of strike has wounds equalling half or more his endurance
-1
Striker has one or more wounds
-1
Striker has wounds equalling half or more his endurance (in addition to the above)
Take the total that results, and consult the Combat Table (r220c). If one of the listed numbers has occurred, the
target suffers the number of wounds indicated. If a number results that is not listed on the combat table, the
strike missed and no wounds are inflicted.

Example: A Dwarf (combat skill 6, endurance 7) strikes at the Barbarian Prince (combat skill 8, endurance 9)
who has one wound. The Dwarf takes his 6 skill, subtracts the Prince's 8, for "-2", then rolls two dice and gets a
"10". No special modifiers apply, so the overall result is 8, which means one wound. The Prince now has two
wounds, when it is his turn to strike back. The Prince rolls "7", so his calculation is 8-6+7-1=8, and thus also
inflicts one wound. Note that the two wounds of the Prince caused the "-1" special modifier to be applied.
Combat Table (r220c): this table is also reproduced on a separate sheet:
-1,3,5,8,11
One wound
10,12,13,17
Two wounds
Three wounds
16,18,19
Five wounds
Six wounds
Surprise (r220d): if characters achieve surprise in combat, they are allowed one 'free" bonus strike at the start
of the combat. Then, when the first round starts, the characters with surprise strike first each round.
Escape (r220e): in a round of battle, instead of striking with characters you may attempt to flee (escape) the
battle. Either all or none escape, you cannot leave some behind. When an escape attempt occurs, none of your
characters strike. Instead, roll one die. A "4" or higher result allows a successful escape; see r218. If anything
else occurs, the battle continues. You can attempt to escape as often as you wish, until you finally succeed.
Routs (r220f): you can attempt to frighten your enemy into running away from the combat", if you wish. Each
time you kill one character in the enemy group, after you finish all strikes, you roll one die. If a "6" occurs the
enemy routs, and the battle ends. All surviving enemy characters flee and disappear, so you can't take their
wealth. Otherwise, it is just as if you killed them all. Opposing characters with a combat skill or endurance of 9
or higher are never subject to rout, they will always fight to the death.
r221 Wounds & Endurance
Every character has an endurance value. This is the number of wounds needed to kill that character. Wounds
are caused by combat and other events.
Serious Wounding (r221a): when the number of wounds to a character equals or exceeds half his endurance,
he is seriously wounded. Modifiers to his combat strikes will occur.
Unconsciousness (r221b): when the number of wounds is one less than a character's endurance value, he
has fallen unconscious, and is totally helpless. His combat skill becomes zero (0) automatically. He can no
longer strike in combat, but others can still strike at him. If the Barbarian Prince (yourself) falls unconscious, roll
one die for the attitude of his followers: 4 or more and they carry him along, 3 or less and they all desert him,
taking all his money and possessions in the process (since they have left him for dead). If his followers carry
him, normal transport rules (r207) apply, with the Prince counting as twenty (20) loads.
Death (r221c): when the number of wounds finally equals the endurance value of the character, or exceeds it,
the character dies. If the Barbarian Prince dies, you lose the game!
r222 Rest & Healing Wounds
You and your party can rest during a day (r203). You must check for an encounter as if travelling into the hex
you occupy while resting (see r207). If there is no event that involves combat or requires an escape during the
day, each character in the party heals one wound. You can continue to rest, day after day, until all wounds are
healed. You can never improve the endurance of a character beyond his original value, regardless of rest
taken.
In addition, certain events may be special possessions that have healing abilities.
A character can be wounded, then heal the wound, any number of times, provided he avoids death.

Poison Wounds: a poison wound cannot be healed in the normal manner. It remains a wound regardless of
rest taken, until either a special possession provides a cure, or the character dies of wounds.
r225 Acquiring Treasure
Whenever you kill all characters encountered, your party may take their wealth. To determine the wealth of
each defeated character, compare the character's wealth code with one die roll on the Treasure Table (r226).
The result is the actual wealth, in gold pieces. (The wealth code, incidentally, is the average wealth result.)
Some events may also provide you with treasures of various types. These may be a fixed number of gold
pieces, or refer to a wealth code, in which case you again roll a die and consult the Treasure Table (r226).
Special Possessions: sometimes the result of the Treasure Table (r226) will include not just gold, but a letter
code as well. This means a special item has also been found, roll again on the Treasure Table and consult the
appropriate letter code line for the specific event that describes the new possession.
Distributing Acquisitions: you decide which characters receive what part of the treasure. You may decide to
give your followers nothing, and retain all the wealth for yourself.
If you do give any money or a possession to a follower, it becomes his personal property. You can never take it
back unless the character dies, at which point you can recover his wealth unless you had to escape from the
scene or have already left.
Historical Note: this system for holding wealth is based on ancient Celtic and Germanic social customs, where
the chief or leader owned all property, including all spoils from raids or wars. His band of followers was provided
for, and was from time to time given individual items as gifts for especially valuable services.
r226 Treasure Table
wealth code
die roll (use one die)
Character has no gold or possessions
3+A
6+A
8+A
9+C
11+A
15+A
20+A
24+A
28+A
45+A
50+C
60+B
70+A
80+B
90+C
100+B
110+A
130+C
150+A
A
e180
e181
e182
e183
e184
e185
B
e180
e186
e187
e188
e190
e193
C
e186
e188
e189
e191
e192
e194

r227 Trap Locks
To open or enter an item with a trap lock, you must survive the trap on the lock. You can have someone else
open the item, but then that person is entitled to whatever is within. To determine what happens, roll one die:
Poison needle inflicts one poisoned wound.
Burning acid explodes; roll one die for the number of wounds suffered.
Poison gas bursts. Roll one die for the number of poison wounds suffered.
Plague dust inflicts a sickness. Roll one die and halve the result, rounding upward. You suffer these
many wounds at the end of the day. You will continue to suffer the same number after every day,
until you recover. To determine recovery, roll one die after the sickness wounds are inflicted. If this
second roll is 4 or higher, you recover. Otherwise, sickness continues.
Flying spikes and knives explode toward you. Roll one die and add three (+3) for the number of
wounds suffered. 
Trap malfunctions, no wounds suffered.
r228 True Love
You may fall in love with a female and vice versa. This is "true love," a rare but wonderful situation. Your true
love will always accompany you in your party, until death or unavoidable circumstance parts you. Your true love
will never desert you, regardless of whether money or food is properly paid, etc. You can never voluntarily
abandon her, and she will not leave even if you order her to go!
In some cases, when you are believed dead, or imprisoned, you will be forcibly parted from the rest of your
followers. Your true love will also be separated from you. As soon as you are free, and reuniting is possible, at
the end of each day roll two dice. If the result is "10" or "11" your true love has finally found you, and rejoins
your party. If the result is "12" exactly, you learn that she died trying to find you, or trying to protect you. When
you are reunited, roll two dice again, if the result is "9" or higher she has acquired a horse for a mount on her
own journeys, and brings that with her. If the result is "12" exactly, she has a winged mount (a Pegasus) which
is able to fly.
Advantages of Love: while your true love accompanies you, your wit & wiles is increased by one (+1), due to
the extra emotional strength she provides, not to mention sage advice and quick thinking in tight spots!
The Eternal Triangle: if you have a true love, and somehow acquire a second "true love", a difficult situation
exists. Since you are torn between the two, neither is a true love; so the effects of this section no longer apply.
However, these potential true loves may not desert you when you request it or they normally would. Whenever
desertion would occur, roll one die, a 3 or higher means the female remains with you that day like a true love, a
2 or less means he leaves. Thus you may lose all competing true loves save one, and when only one remains,
she becomes you real "true love" again.
sections r229 and r282-299 do not exist see separate sheet for sections r230-r281

r300 Surprise
Your party surprises the characters encountered in combat (r220).
r301 Surprise
Roll one die, if your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the die roll, your party surprises the characters encountered,
otherwise you strike first in combat (r220).
r302 Surprise
Roll one die, if your wit & wiles exceeds the die roll, your party surprises the characters encountered, otherwise
you strike first in combat (r220).
r303 Surprise
Roll one die, if the number of characters in your party is less than the roll, your party surprises the characters
encountered; otherwise you strike first in combat (r220).
r304 Attack
Your party strikes first in combat (r220) against the characters.
r305 Attack
Roll one die, if your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the die roll, you strike first in combat (r220); otherwise,
characters encountered strike first.
r306 Attacked
Roll one die, if your wit & wiles exceeds the die roll, you strike first in combat (r220); otherwise, characters
encountered strike first.
r307 Attacked
Characters encountered strike first in combat (r220) against your party.
r308 Surprised
Roll one die, if you wit & wiles equals or exceeds the die roll, you sense danger, characters encountered strike
first against your party in combat (r220); otherwise, you fail to sense danger, they surprise your party.
r309 Surprised
Roll one die, if your wit & wiles exceeds the die roll, you sense danger, characters encountered strike first
against your party in combat (r220); otherwise, you fail to sense danger and they surprise you and your party.

r310 Surprised
Characters encountered surprise you party and cause combat (r220).
r311 Escape
Your party escapes to an adjacent hex (r218).
r312 Escape Mounted (mtd)
You ride away: if your entire party has mounts, you can escape to an adjacent hex (r218); if some of your party
lack mounts, they can be abandoned to permit the rest to escape, or your entire party is unable to escape, see
r330.
r313 Escape Flying (fly)
You can fly away; if your entire party has winged mounts or is able to fly, you can escape to an adjacent hex
(r218); if some of your party are unable to fly, they can be abandoned to permit the rest to escape, or your
entire party does not escape, see r330 instead.
r314 Escape
They don't look too bright, you try to talk you way past them. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles equals or exceeds
the die roll, your party escapes to an adjacent hex (r218); otherwise, return to the previous event section and
select another option.
r315 Escape
With a few well-chosen words you might throw them off - you decide, it's worth a try. Roll one die, if your wit &
wiles exceeds the die roll your party escapes to an adjacent hex (r218); otherwise, return to the previous event
section and select another option.
r316 Hide
Your party hides in this hex (r218).
r317 Hide
You think quickly and try to hide. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the roll, your party hides in
this hex (r218); otherwise, return to the previous section and select another option — you couldn't think of a
good hiding place fast enough!
r318 Hide
You decide to try hiding. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles exceeds the die roll, your party hides in this hex (r218);
otherwise, you couldn't think fast enough, return to the previous section and select another option.

r319 Hide
You look around for enough cover to hide your party. Roll one die; if the number of characters in your party is
equal to or less than the die roll, you can hide (r218) in this hex; otherwise, return to the previous section and
select another option. You can't abandon members of your party to allow the rest to hide - those abandoned will
reveal your hiding place!
r320 Hide
You look around for cover. Roll one die, if the number of characters in your party is less than the die roll, then
you can hide (r218) in this hex; otherwise, return to the previous event section and select another option. You
cannot abandon members of your party to allow the rest to hide.
r321 Bribe to Pass (amount)
If you pay the amount of gold indicated, characters encountered will let you pass and the encounter ends.
Otherwise, they become hostile and try to stop you, see r330 and add one (+1) to your dice roll there.
r322 Bribe to Pass (amount)
Characters encountered have a nasty look, but if you pay the amount of gold indicated they will pass your party
and the event will end. Otherwise, go to r330 and prepare to battle.
r323 Bribe to Pass (amount)
Characters encountered seem unsavory, you don't know what to expect, except that if you pay the amount of
gold demanded you can pass and the event ends. Otherwise, there is risk of ambush and surprise, go to r330
and subtract one (-1) to your dice roll there.
r324 Bribe to Pass (amount)
Characters encountered have weapons drawn, putting you at a disadvantage. You can either pay the amount of
gold they demand and end this event, or you can let them attack and strike first in combat (r220).
r325 Pass
Characters lose interest in your party, encounter and event ends now.
r326 Pass
You think you can lull their suspicions. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles equal or exceed the roll, the characters
encountered let your party pass, the event ends. Otherwise, see r330 and add one (+1) to your dice roll there.
r327 Pass
Characters encountered look nasty, but slow on the uptake — you’ll try to talk your way past. Roll one die, if
your wit & wiles equal or exceed the roll, the characters let your party pass, event ends. Otherwise, go to r330.

r328 Pass
Characters encountered look rough, but you try to talk your way out of a fight. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles
exceeds the roll, they let your party pass and event ends; otherwise, see r330.
r329 Pass
Characters encountered have an unpleasant gleam in their eyes. You try to create a favorable impression
anyway. Roll one die, if your wit & wiles exceeds the roll they let your party pass, event ends; otherwise, go to
r330 and subtract one (-1) from your dice roll there.
r330 Battle Reference
You are forced to fight with the characters encountered, roll two dice and go to the appropriate section: 2(or
less)-r310; 3-r309; 4-r308; 5-r307; 6-r306; 7-r305; 8-r304;9-r303; 10-r302; 11-r301; 12(or more)-r300.
r331 Bribe to Join (amount)
Characters encountered are looking for easy money. They will join your party if you pay the gold requested. If
you don't pay, roll one die: 1,2,3-characters ignore you and event ends; 4-r321; 5-r322;6-r323.
If they are paid and do join, they will remain until you fail to give them an equal share of any new gold acquired
(equal share is at least as much as you get yourself), or until any member of your party is abandoned or killed.
If either of these happens, even if in the midst of combat, these unreliable mercenaries will immediately
abandon your party and disappear!
r332 Bribe to Hire (amount)
Character(s) will hire as henchmen for 2 gold per day, provided you pay them the bonus in gold they request.
Daily pay starts tomorrow. The characters) will remain in your party as long as they are paid, or until you
abandon them. If more than one character is encountered, you must hire all or none as a group. The bonus is
paid to the group as a whole. If you abandon one of the group, all will leave, they only work as a group.
If you don't hire them, roll one die: 1,2-characters ignore you and event ends; 3-r321; 4-r322; 5-r323; 6-r324.
r333 Hirelings
Character(s) encountered need a job! They will hire on with your party at 2 gold per day, provided you pay
today's wages right now. They will remain with your party as long as they are paid every day at the evening
meal (r215). If there is more than one, you can hire some or all, as desired.
If you don't hire any of them, roll one die: 1,2,3,4-r325; 5-r326; 6-r327.
r334 Ally
You discover the character(s) know about your quest to regain your throne, and they too have a personal
grudge against the usurpers there. They will join your party as followers, and remain with you at no cost
(beyond food and lodging).
r335 Escapee
Character(s) encountered are fleeing someone. They will join your party if you permit it, and at no cost to you
(other than food and lodging), but will disappear whenever you enter any town, castle or temple hex.

r336 Plead Comrades
You try to talk the character(s) into joining your party, as they seem sympathetic and interested. Roll one die, if
your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the roll, they will join as followers; otherwise they leave and the event ends.
r337 Plead Comrades
The character(s) encountered look unsavory, but willing to talk - you try to convince them to join your party. Roll
one die, if your wit & wiles exceed the roll, they join as followers. Otherwise, roll one die again: 1-r325; 2-r330;
3-r340; 4,5-r341; 6-r342.
r338 Convince Hirelings
Character(s) encountered look dubiously at you, but you try to convince them to join your party as henchmen.
Roll one die; if your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the die roll, they will join your party as henchmen. You must
pay them one gold piece per day if your wit & wiles exceed the die roll, or two gold pieces per day if your wit &
wiles equaled the die roll. Today's pay must be given to each immediately. If more than one is encountered, you
can hire some instead of all if you desire. Those who are not hired, or if you fail to convince them to join will
pass by, ending the event.
r339 Convince Hirelings
Character(s) encountered look askance at you, and will pass you by (event ends) unless you stop to talk.
If you stop to talk, you decide you should convince them to join your party as henchmen. Roll one die; if your wit
& wiles exceeds the die roll, they will join at 2 gold pieces per day, with today's pay due right now. You can hire
some instead of all if you desire.
If you stopped to talk, but failed to convince them to join as hirelings, roll one die to determine their attitude:
1,2,3-r325; 4,5,6-r330.
r340 Looter
Character(s) encountered look like they are in need of money. You can let them pass (encounter ends) or try to
convince them to join you.
If you try to convince them, roll one die. If your wit & wiles equals or exceeds the die roll, they will join your
party. They will remain as long as they get an equal share in any new gold you acquire (i.e., each gets as least
as much as you). If you deny them their share, it is ^s if you failed to convince them to join, see below.
If you fail to convince them to join (or later deny them an equal share in gold) they may become hostile, roll one
die:
1,2
They attack you personally in combat (r220), and have the first strike.
3,4
They attack your party in combat (r220); see r330 for situation.
5,6
They depart angry, but without fighting, event ends.

r341 Conversation
In an extended period of talking, you gradually discover the interests and attitudes of the character(s) you
encountered. This takes a good deal of time, you cannot travel any further today, and any other daily actions
unfinished cannot be completed either. For the results of the talk, roll two dice
A hired assassin surprises you into combat (r220) and always strikes at you personally.
Bandits, who may surprise you, see r308.
Arrogant and surly, the conversation turns into an argument, r305.
Character(s) needs 10 gold now, r331; if they join, they will leave your party in a next town,
castle or temple you enter in any event.
Character(s) ask for 5 gold now and employment, see r332.
Character(s) willing to hire as henchmen, see r333. 
Character(s) looking for fun and profit, see r338.
Character(s) fugitive from local justice, see r335.
10 Character(s) down on luck, looking for a turn in fortunes, see r336.
11 Character(s) obviously plundering mercenaries, see r340.
12 Character(s) discover a common cause with you; see r334.
r342 General Inquiry
You are unsure of attitudes, and make some general inquiries to determine what these encountered characters
seem interested in. Roll two dice:
You unwittingly give insult; see r309.
You are forced into combat, unwillingly; see r330.
Character(s) interested in loot, see r340.
Character(s) attempt attack on you, see r306.
Character(s) uninterested in you, see r325.
Character(s) reveal themselves gradually; you can either talk further (see r341) or let them
pass (see r325). 
Character(s) are for hire; see r333.
Character(s) may be for hire, see r339.
10 Character(s) may be sympathetic to your cause, see r337.
11 Character(s) uninterested, but may be for hire, see r338.
12 Character(s) aloof, but might consider joining you, see r336.
r343 Victim Selection
One character in your party is the victim or target of the attack. If your party is just you, then you are the target.
Otherwise, select characters in your party one by one, in any order you choose. When you select a character,
roll one die. If the result is "6" that character is the target, otherwise select another character and try again.
Continue this, going through the characters in your party more than once if necessary, until the target is
selected.
Barbarian Prince Copyright ©1981, Heritage USA 8700