Barbarossa 
Translation by Mike Schloth and Alan R. Moon 
Updated by Richard Vickery for the 6 player ASS edition 
Updated by Paul Heldrup for the Klaus Teuber Classics edition 
Components 
Game board 
Jewel tile 
6 event tiles 
4 Magicians (the largest pieces - pawns) 
4 Magic hats (the medium pieces - cylinders) 
4 Elfstones (the smallest pieces - cubes) 
4 blocks of clay (plasticene) 
12 Curse Tokens (Black) 
13 Arrows 
Pad of Paper 
1 die 
This rule book and example sheet 
Setup 
Give each player the clay of one colour, a pad of paper, a pencil, and three Curse Tokens. 
Place the six event tiles around the jewel in numerical order. 
Place all the Magicians on the Event Tile with the “?” symbol. 
Place all the Magic hats on the space showing an “S” on the Scoring Track. 
Place all the Elfstones on space “12” of the Jewel Scale. 
If there are 4 players, each player must make two objects from his clay. If there are three players, 
each player must make three objects. Each object is a 3D riddle that the other players have to solve. 
The idea of the riddle is to make it neither too easy nor too hard to solve as otherwise you will lose 
points. All objects are placed in the middle of the board. Players must then write down what their 
objects are and place these pieces of paper under the board. Each object must be a single word. The 
last player to finish modelling begins the game. 
Sequence of Play 
Each player rolls the die and the player with the highest roll goes first. Play then proceeds clockwise 
around the table, each player taking one turn at a time in order. 
During his turn, a player may move in one of two possible ways. 
1. He can simply roll the die and move his Pawn that number of spaces clockwise around the 
board. 
2. He can move his Pawn a specific number of spaces clockwise without rolling the die by 
spending Jewels, recording this expenditure by moving his Token down the Jewel Scale. A 
player may never spend more Jewels than he has, and a player who has no Jewels must roll 
the die to move. 

There are five different types of spaces on the board. 
Jewel - You receive an Elfstone which is recorded by moving your token up the Jewel 
Scale. You can not exceed 13 Elfstones. 
Dragon - Every other player moves his Magic hat forward one space on the Scoring Track. 
Dwarf - You may ask one opponent for the letter of one of his objects in a particular 
position e.g. first, third or last letter. The opponent writes the letter down and shows it to 
you secretly. You may keep notes on your findings. 
? - You may ask two rounds of questions about opponents' objects. You can ask any player 
any question about one of his objects. The opponent must answer: 
 “YES” 
 “NO” 
 “POSSIBLY” 
 “I DON'T KNOW” 
and must answer truthfully. 
 
You may continue to ask questions about this same object or any other objects until you get 
a “NO” answer which marks the start of the second round. During the second round you 
may continue to ask questions about any object, but you may also guess one object by 
writing it down and showing it to the opponent secretly. The opponent must tell you if your 
guess is right or not by saying “YES” or “NO”. You do not necessarily have to guess an 
object about which you were asking questions. The second round finishes if you get another 
“NO” answer to a question or after you make your written guess. 
Scoring 
Whenever you guess an object correctly, you stick an arrow in the object. If you guessed wrong, no 
action is taken. You may never guess your own objects! 
If you are the first player to guess an object, you score 5 points and move your Magic hat this many 
spaces towards the golden key. If you are the second player to guess an object, you score 3 points. 
An object may not get more than two arrows. 
The opponent who made the guessed object also scores points. Count all the arrows in all the 
objects on the board (including the one just placed) and consult the following table. 
Number of Arrows 
Magic hat moves: 
1-2 
2 backwards 
1 backwards 
No move 
5-6 
1 forwards 
7-8 
2 forwards 
1 forwards 
No move 
1 backwards 
12-13 
2 backwards 
Scores are recorded by moving the player's Magic hat forward or back on the Scoring Track. 

Curse Tokens 
Curse tokens allow you to do one of two things. 
1. You may spend one to ask a player for a letter (as if you were on a Dwarf Space). 
2. You may guess an object. 
You may use Curse Tokens at any time during the game, except when another player is in the 
second round of questions on the “?” space. Only one player may use a Curse token at a time: roll 
off with the die if they are played simultaneously. You may use more than one Curse Token at a 
time, and used Curse tokens are put in the middle of the board. Once five Curse tokens have been 
used, then each player may, once per game, take three Curse tokens back if they have run out of 
Curse Tokens. This means that each player can use six Curse Tokens over the course of the game. 
Game End 
The game can end in one of two ways. 
1. If one player's Magic hat reaches the end space (with the star), he is the winner. 
2. If the 13th arrow is placed, the game also ends. The player closest to the end space wins. 
Optional (but recommended): All players score points for each of their objects which do 
not have two arrows in them. A player scores -5 points for each object with no arrows in it, 
and -2 points for each object with one arrow in it. 
The pieces of paper under the board are revealed. If any player has given a false letter or a wrong 
answer, don't play with him again. 
Richard's Notes 
We play with two house rules. 
1. The most important is that regardless of how the game ends, we apply the 13th arrow rule 
before declaring a winner. This might mean that the person reaching the end space does not 
win the game if their sculptures have not been guessed. 
2. The other is that we allow two word riddles, and have experimented with allowing phrases 
too. 
Alan Moon likes to stick to a theme for both of his sculptures. This can be fun and if a player gets 
one then they have a built-in clue about the other. This is a good way to make sure that you don't 
get stuck with an empty sculpture without making your sculptures pushovers.