®
Das fesselnde Strategiespiel für zwei Personen
The exciting strategy game for two players

1. Preparations for play
The players draw lots to decide who is to play 
with which colour.
The 14 tiles and the first 8 Barragoon pieces 
are arranged on the board in their starting 
positions, see Fig. A. The remaining 24 Barra­
goon pieces are placed next to the board. They 
are added as the game progresses.
2. Play
Both players use their tactical skills to move 
their tiles (see 4.1 Moving a tile) and arrange 
the Barragoon pieces (see 3. The Barragoon) 
to enable them to capture all their opponent’s 
tiles or to impede their opponent’s progress. 
A player has lost when he no longer has any 
tiles that he can move.
The player with the white tiles begins and 
moves one of his white tiles.
Players take turns to move.
3. The Barragoon piece 
The Barragoon piece is the central element 
of the game. It blocks or frees the tiles to be 
moved in specific directions, depending on the 
direction indicated by the uppermost symbol.
The exciting strategy game for two players
Creators: Robert Witter and Frank Warneke 
Fig. A: Starting position (closed variant)
Note: If the uppermost symbol on a Barragoon piece frees up movement in a particular direction, this 
means that all other directions are blocked.
www.barragoon.com
®
Instructions
Material:
set of instructions
board
32 black Barragoon pieces 
 
 
 
 ... 
white tiles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
brown tiles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8+
20-120
Min.

3.2 Placing a Barragoon
If a captured Barragoon piece (see 4.5 Capturing a Barragoon) is returned to a new position on the board or 
if new Barragoon peaces are added when a tile is captured (see 4.4 Capturing a tile) then proceed as follows:
a)  The Barragoon is placed so that the chosen symbol faces upwards.
b)  The uppermost symbol (if direction-dependent) is turned to the chosen direction (see 3.1 Barragoon 
symbols).
c)  Once the player lets go of the Barragoon, he can no longer change its position or direction.
3.1 Barragoon symbols
No Entry
The Barragoon piece cannot be crossed by any tile.
One Way
The Barragoon piece can only be crossed by any of the tiles in the one direction 
indicated by the arrow.
Two Ways
The Barragoon piece can only be crossed by any of the tiles in either of the directions 
indicated by the arrow.
Right Turn
The Barragoon piece can only be crossed by any of the tiles with a right turn in the one 
direction indicated by the arrow.
Left Turn
The Barragoon piece can only be crossed by any of the tiles with a left turn in the one 
direction indicated by the arrow.
All Turns
The Barragoon piece can be crossed by any tile from any direction, but only in the 
eight arrow directions indicated (in other words always with a turn and never straight 
through).
If the next tile is moved before the Barragoon has been placed, this move must be immediately halted or 
reversed. Otherwise the player will be deemed to have forgotten to place the Barragoon and the piece remains 
out of play.
4. The tiles
There are three different kinds of tile in each colour:
 
. As the value indicates, this can move 2 or, alternatively, just 1 square (short move).
 
. As the value indicates, this can move 3 or, alternatively, just 2 squares (short move).
 
. As the value indicates, this can move 4 or, alternatively, just 3 squares (short move).
4.1 Moving a tile
•  A tile moves from its starting square to its target square. The target square counts as part of the move, 
however the starting square does not.
•  A tile may be moved in any direction horizontally or vertically. It may not be moved diagonally.
•  A tile may only change direction by an angle of 90 degrees once during a move. You are not permitted to turn 
more than once or to change direction by 180°!
•  A Barragoon piece can be crossed during a move if the direction indicated by the uppermost symbol permits 
(see 3.1 Barragoon symbols). The square occupied by the Barragoon is counted when crossed.
•  If the Barragoon piece forces the user to turn, this change of direction counts as part of the move. In other 
words it is not possible to turn again before or after this Barragoon piece as part of the move.
•  You cannot jump over your own tiles or those of your opponent.
•  You cannot capture your own tiles using one of your own tiles.
In principle, a Barragoon piece with any symbol uppermost can be captured by all tiles. There is one 
exception! If the All turns 
 symbol is uppermost, the Barragoon piece cannot be captured by the 
2-space tiles 
 
.
The Barragoon piece should be kept in your hand until you place it back on the board, otherwise it is 
easy to forget to use it!

4.2 Short move
 
 moves 1 square.
 
 moves 2 squares.
 
 moves 3 squares.
4.3 Full move
 
 moves 2 squares.
 
 moves 3 squares.
 
 moves 4 squares.
A tile can move and capture other pieces in a full move. It can:
a)  move to an unoccupied square. The square is not occupied by a tile, whether your own or an opponent’s, 
or by a Barragoon piece.
b)  move to a square occupied by an opponent‘s tile. The opponent’s tile is thus captured (see 4.4 Capturing 
a tile).
c)  move to a square occupied by a Barragoon piece. The Barragoon is thus captured (see 4.5 Capturing a 
Barragoon). Exception: The 2-space tiles 
 
 cannot move to a square occupied by a Barragoon piece 
with an All Turns 
 symbol uppermost. In other words you cannot capture it!
4.4 Capturing a tile
If a tile lands on a square occupied by an opponent’s tile during a full move, it captures this tile.
If Player A (e.g. white) captures a tile belonging to Player B (e.g. brown), then the relevant tile belonging to 
Player B is removed from the board. Player A then picks up two of the Barragoon pieces next to the board and 
gives one of them to Player B.
Both players keep their Barragoon pieces in their hands (to ensure they don’t forget to place the Barragoon 
piece). Now Player B first places his Barragoon piece on his chosen square on the board (see 3.2 Placing a 
Barragoon). Player A now also places his Barragoon piece on his chosen empty square on the board, also 
proceeding according to 3.2 Placing a Barragoon.
It is then the other player’s turn.
4.5 Capturing a Barragoon
If a tile lands on a square occupied by a 
Barragoon piece during a full move, it 
captures this piece. 
The captured Barragoon piece is then immediately placed by the same player on another empty square on the 
board (see 3.2 Placing a Barragoon).
It is then the other player’s turn.
4.6 If you touch it, you move it
Once you have touched one of your own tiles you must move it, provided that at least one possible square is 
available. Once the player has let go of a tile on its square, he can no longer move it.
Once a Barragoon piece or an opponent’s tile has been touched it must be captured, provided this is possible 
with the player’s own tile that was first touched. If the opponent’s tile or the Barragoon is touched first, it must be 
captured provided this is possible using any one of player’s own tiles.
Note: A tile can only move in a short move, but cannot 
capture another piece.
A tile can only move to an unoccupied square in a short 
move. The square cannot be occupied by a tile, whether 
your own or an opponent’s, or by a Barragoon piece.
Note: The 2-space tiles 
 
 cannot capture a 
Barragoon piece with the All Turns 
 symbol uppermost!

5. Examples
6. End of the game
The game is over when the player whose turn it is no longer has any tiles left or his remaining tiles cannot be moved.
Special cases:
a)  If all the tiles belonging to both players have been captured or are unable to move, the player whose turn it 
is loses because he is unable to make a move.
b)  If the tiles of the two players can still move but are unable to 
capture a Barragoon piece or an opponent’s tile in the course of 
the continued game, the game ends in a draw, (see Fig. right).
c)  If the players repeat the same pattern of moves three times, then 
the player whose turn it is, having completed his turn, can offer a 
draw. If the offer of a draw is declined, the players must choose 
a different sequence of moves at the earliest opportunity. Thus, 
as a rule, the player who declined the draw must perform the first different move. That is, unless no other 
move is available. If both players are unable to deviate from the repetitive sequence of moves, the game 
ends in a draw.
Optional express rule: reducing game duration in 2 stages.
Stage 1: The player whose turn it is has lost the game if, before making his move, he 
only has one single playing piece left with which he can move. Stage 1 is indicated by 
a barragoon placed directly alongside the board.
Stage 2: The player whose turn it is has lost the game if, before making his move, 
he only has two playing pieces left with which he can move. Stage 2 is indicated by two 
barragoon placed directly alongside the board.
The express rule can also be applied to balance out differences in playing abilities.
The weaker player plays the usual way while the stronger player plays according to the 
rules for stage 1 or 2 above.
Alternatively, the weaker player (brown in the example on the right) can play the stage 1 
rule while the stronger player (white) plays at stage 2.
The special cases a), b) and c) apply accordingly.
7. Variations
As well as the normal, closed set-up, there is also the so-called open variation. In this case the Barragoon pieces 
are placed in their starting positions with the All Turns 
 symbol uppermost.
Two changes of direction
are not allowed!
A piece cannot be captures
in a short move!
The Barragoon piece with the 
All Turns 
 symbol uppermost 
cannot be captured by 
2-space tiles 
 
.
A short move with
a 3-space tile
A full move with
a 4-space tile
Capturing a piece with
a 3-space tile
Capturing a piece with 
a 2-space tile

WiWa Spiele UG
(haftungsbeschränkt)
Bajuwarenring 21
D-82041 Oberhaching
Tel.: 	 + 49 89 641889-14
Fax: 	 + 49 89 641889-20
www.wiwa-spiele.de