CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION 
Summary of Play
COMPONENTS
GAME RULES
SETTING UP
THE SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Stacking
First turn surprise
THE STRATEGY SEGMENT
ACTION SEGMENTS
THE VICTORY SEGMENT
ACTION PHASES
MOVEMENT PHASE
Which Counters Have You Used?
COMBAT PHASE
Retreats
Working Out Odds Ratios
BUILD PHASE
Imperial Build Phases
Ork Build Phases
SUPPLY
CHRONOLOGY
BIOGRAPHIES
GAME DESIGN
JERVIS JOHNSON
BILL KING
PRODUCTION
RICHARD HELLIWELL
BOX COVER
FANGORN
BOARD ART
MARK GIBBONS
PRODUCED BY
GAMES WORKSHOP
White Dwarf and Warhammer are registered trademarks of
Games Workshop Ltd.
Citadel Miniatures, the Citadel Castle and Games Workshop are all
trademarks of Games Workshop Ltd
All artwork in all Games Workshop products and the images contained
therein have been produced either in-house or as work for hire. The
exclusive copyright on the artwork and the images it depicts is the
property of Games Workshop Ltd.
Game Design consultant Bryan Ansell.
© Copyright Games Workshop Ltd, 1992. All Rights Reserved.
A
GAMES WORKSHOP
PRODUCT

INTRODUCTION
Battle for Armageddon is a strategic wargame that simulates
the conflict between Orks and the Imperium for control of the
Imperial hive world Armageddon.
The war involved tens of millions of combatants and took
two decades to resolve. By its end, the lives of countless
millions of Ork and Imperial warriors had been lost.
Armageddon is a tough place where little value is attached to
human life, while air, light and food are precious and rare
commodities. The surface of planet has been plundered of all
resources and reduced to little more than an ashblown desert.
Scattered across the planet are huge cities called hives, which
are home to the millions upon millions of people that make
up the planet's population, and which provide the planet
with its vast manufacturing capability. The hives and factory
cities of Armageddon produce arms and weapons that equip
fighting units for hundreds of light years in every direction,
and its loss would be a serious blow to the Imperium's
ability to defend this sector of the galaxy.
The game concentrates on the campaign fought for control of
the vital Armageddon Secundus area of the planet. The vast
factory hive cities on this continent produced over 80% of
the planet's industrial wealth and were vital for the Imperial
war effort. If Armageddon Secundus were conquered, the
Imperial forces would be starved of ammunition 
equipment, and the planet would fall to the Orks. The Orks
decided to use three whole tribes, over half their entire
invasion force, to capture the continent. The resulting
campaign lasted for almost two years and was one of the
bloodiest in Imperial history.
The initial Ork offensive caught the Imperial forces almost
completely by surprise. Ork spearheads punched through
Imperial lines and pushed deep into Imperial territory.
Furious counter-attacks failed to stop the Ork advance, and it
looked as if all was lost. But in this dark hour, salvation was
at hand. First, the heroic defence of the Hades hive against
almost impossible odds slowed and then halted the Ork blitz.
Then the arrival of three entire Space Marine Chapters - the
Salamanders, Ultramarines and Blood Angels - turned the
tide of battle in the Imperium's favour.
Although the Orks' initial attack had been stopped, the
campaign was by no means over. Seesaw battles of attrition
and manoeuvre engulfed the continent, and the fate of
Armageddon hung in the balance. Finally, however, the Orks
were decisively defeated at the battle of Tartarus hive. The
shattered remnants of the once mighty Ork tribes retreated
back to the original 
border, and the campaign 
Armageddon was over. Although the war for the rest of the
planet carried on for more than a dozen years, the Orks' defeat
in this campaign marked the end of any hope of Ork victory.
SUMMARY OF PLAY
The game begins at the start of the campaign, with the
three Ork tribes poised on the border of Armageddon
Secundus, and all hell about to break loose! One
player takes the side of the Orks and the other of the
Imperium. Cardboard counters represent the military
units that make up the huge armies. Each counter is
printed with a name and picture to show what type of
unit it represents, and the three numbers at the
bottom rate how good the counter is at attacking,
defending and moving.
The game is split into eight turns, each of which
represents about three months of the actual campaign.
At the start of each turn you decide on a plan for your
army to follow by picking two strategy cards and
placing them in a stack in front of you. The cards list
what you may do when the card is revealed. If, for
example, you had a 'movement & combat' card, you
can move and then attack with your pieces. Once
both players have chosen their strategy cards, they
each roll a D6. Whoever scores highest wins the
initiative and goes first, flipping over the top card in
his stack of strategy cards and carrying out the two
phases listed on the card in the order shown. His
opponent then flips over his top card, and so on, with
the players taking it in turn to reveal a card and carry
out the phases.
Victory is determined by the number of hives you
control at the end of each turn. The Ork player must
attempt to capture as many Imperial hives as
possible, so as to fatally undermine the Imperial war
effort. The Imperial player must desperately defend
his hives, and attempt to recapture and rebuild those
that fall into Ork hands.

COMPONENTS
In addition to this rulebook, Battle For Armageddon
includes the following components:
1 Game Board
145 Counters
24 Cards
1 Reference Sheet
2 Dice
GAME BOARD
The game board shows a map of Armageddon Secundus. It is
divided into a number of different sized areas to help
regulate movement. A key describing the different types of
terrain shown on the map is included on the reference sheet.
The game board also includes tracks that are used to record
information needed while you are playing.
COUNTERS
Each counter is printed with a name and picture showing the
unit it represents, and three numbers at the bottom. These
show the counter's attack value, defence value and movement
value, and the higher they are the better! All of the Imperial
counters are printed on a blue background, while the Ork
counters are printed on a green background. The Ork army is
divided into three tribes that are shown by the central band
of colour on the counter. All of the counters with a red band
belong to the same tribe, for example.
CARDS
There are four sets of cards included with the game: a set of
Ork strategy cards, a set of Imperial strategy cards, a set of
Ork special cards and a set of Imperial special cards. The
strategy cards are used to determine which plan your army
will follow during each turn, while the special cards allow
you to make special attacks or actions not normally allowed
by the game rules.
REFERENCE SHEET
The reference sheet includes various charts, tables and
special rules that you will need to refer to during play, so
keep it handy!

THE GAME RULES
SETTING UP
Before you start, it's a good idea to read through these rules
at least once so you get some idea of how the game works.
They aren't complicated, and reading them won't take very
long. Once you've done this, clear a large space on a table
and set up the board. Place the build points counter on the
'20' space on the Imperial build points track, and the turn
counter on the '1' space on the turn track. One player takes
all of the Imperial counters and cards; the other player takes
all the Ork counters and cards.
HIVE AND FACTORY AREAS
The Hive and Factory areas printed on the game map
represent the vast industrial complexes for which
Armageddon is famous. The larger hives are picked
out by having their name printed in their area
(Acheron, Hades, Tartarus, Hellsreach and Infernus).
Both types of area are called industrial areas on the
Terrain Effects Chart, and have the same effect on
movement and combat. However, only hive areas are
used to determine who has won the game.
The Imperial army is set up first. The counters that make up
the Imperial army at the start of the game are shown on the
reference sheet, as are the instructions telling you where to
place them on the map. Sort out the starting counters and set
them up, but be careful not to break the stacking rules
described on this page. The remaining Imperial counters are
placed to one side for later use.
After the Imperial player has set up, the Ork player may set up
his army. All three Ork tribes are set ' up in full at the start of
the campaign - in other words the Ork player gets every
single Ork counter! The land the Orks occupy is called Ork
territory and runs along the northern edge of the map; areas
in Ork territory have dashed boundary lines. The Ork player
may set up his counters anywhere within Ork territory,
subject to the stacking rules.
Finally both players sort out their special cards. Shuffle
your own deck of cards, deal yourself two cards at random,
and place the remainder near at hand. The two cards you dealt
out make up your starting hand of special cards. When each
card may be used, and what effect it has on play is written on
the card itself. However, you may only use one special card
per action segment, and you must discard the card after you
have used it.
Once you've both set up, you're ready to start the first turn of
the game. Good luck!
THE SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Battle For Armageddon is played in a series of game turns,
each of which is divided into six segments. All activities
may only take place in the correct segment, and each segment
must be finished before the next can be started. What you do
in each segment is described below and explained in the
rules that follow.
1. STRATEGY SEGMENT. Both players secretly choose two
strategy cards as explained below, and then each player rolls
a dice. The player who scores highest has won the initiative
for the turn. Finally, both players draw a new special card.
2. FIRST ACTION SEGMENT. The player who won the
initiative reveals his first strategy card and carries out the
two phases shown on the card. He must then check to see if
any of his counters are out of supply.
3. SECOND ACTION SEGMENT. The player who lost the
initiative roll reveals his first strategy card, carries out the
two phases, and checks to see if any of his counters are out of
supply.
4. THIRD ACTION SEGMENT. The player who won the
initiative reveals his second strategy card, carries out the two
phases revealed, and checks to see if any of his counters are
out of supply.
5. FOURTH ACTION SEGMENT. The player who lost the
initiative roll reveals his second strategy card, carries out the
two phases, and checks to see if any of his counters are out of
supply.
6. VICTORY SEGMENT. Check the victory conditions
printed on the reference sheet to see if either player has won.
STACKING
When you have more than one counter in an area, they
must all be placed on top of one another in a single
neat pile called a stack. With the exception of the
counters listed below, you may never have more than
three counters in a stack. The Ork player suffers from
the additional restriction that he may not stack
counters from different tribes together. The central
band of colour shows the tribe that an Ork counter
belongs to on the counter. If you break the stacking
rules and your opponent spots the mistake, then he
may choose which counters you have to destroy to
make the stack 'legal'.
Some special counters do not count against the
stacking limit, and may be included in a stack in
addition to the three counters you are normally
allowed. These counters are Warlord Ghazghkull,
Commissar Yarrick, Space Marine Commander Dante,
Fortifications, Factories and Hives.

FIRST TURN SURPRISE
The Orks' attack caught the Imperial forces almost
completely by surprise. To represent this, the
following rules apply on the first turn of the game:
1. The Ork player always receives the initiative on the
first turn.
2. The Ork player receives a +1 bonus to any attacks he
makes on the first turn. This bonus only applies if the
Orks are attacking, not if they are defending.
3. The Imperial build point total is halved in any
Imperial build phases taken on the first turn of the
game.
THE STRATEGY SEGMENT
Each player has a hand of 6 strategy cards. In the strategy
segment you must select any two cards, placing them in a face
down stack in front of you. The order that you stack the cards
in is very important, as it determines the order in which the
cards will be revealed. The top card in the stack is always
revealed and carried out first, as explained below.
Once both players have chosen their strategy cards, each player
rolls a D6. Whoever scores highest wins the initiative and
takes the first action segment.
Finally, each player may draw a new special card. Take the top
special card from the deck and add it to your hand of special
cards. You can have any number of special cards in your hand.
If the deck is exhausted, shuffle any discards and draw your
card from the new deck.
ACTION SEGMENTS
Each strategy card has two action phases listed on it. These
two phases must be carried out in the order shown on the card;
you are not allowed to move on to the second action phase on
the card until you have finished the first action phase. How
you do this is described on the next page in the rulebook.
The players take it in turn to reveal their strategy cards in the
action segments. The player with the initiative goes first,
flipping over the top card in his stack of strategy cards,
carrying out the two phases listed on the card in the order
shown, and finally checking to see if any of his counters are
out of supply. His opponent takes the second action segment,
flipping over his top card, carrying out the action phases in
the order listed and then checking supply, and so on.
THE VICTORY SEGMENT
At the end of each and every turn you must check to see if
either player has won. If neither player has won by the end of
the 8th turn, the game is a draw. The two sides have their own
set of victory conditions:
The Ork player wins by capturing any three of the five
Imperial hives. A hive is considered to be captured by the
Orks if it has been flipped to its 'smoking ruins' side and it is
stacked with an Ork counter in the victory segment.
The Imperial player wins if he is in control of all five of his
hives and the Warlord Ghazghkull counter has been removed
from play. The Imperial player is considered to control a hive
if it is face up, or if an Imperial counter is stacked with its
smoking ruins in the victory segment.

ACTION PHASES
Three different types of action phase can be carried out in an
action segment: movement phases, combat phases and build
phases. You may move your counters when you have a
movement phase, attack with your counters when you have a
combat phase, and build new counters when you have a build
phase. Exactly how you do this is explained in the rules that
follow.
MOVEMENT PHASES
In a movement phase you are allowed to move any or all of
your counters. The number of areas a counter may move is
shown by its move value (the third number on the counter).
You may move as many of your counters as you wish: all,
some or none.
A counter may be moved a number of areas equal to or less
than its move value. It may be moved in any direction or
combination of directions, as long as it does not enter a Sea or
Mountain Area, or enter an area occupied by an enemy counter
of any type (including special units).
Counters are moved one at a time, and you must finish a
counter's move before you move another one. Once you have
started to move another counter, you may not change a
previous move, no matter how much you want to!
The stacking limits described earlier only count at the end of
the movement phase, so while you are moving you may
WHICH COUNTERS HAVE YOU USED?
With so many counters in the game, it is very easy to forget which
counters have moved or fought during a phase. To help you
remember. Flip the counters over or turn them through 180' as you use
them. Then turn all of the counters back round at the end of the phase,
over-stack. For example, you can move a counter through an
area which already has three counters in it, or you can move a
counter into an area with three counters, and then move one of
those counters out. However, your opponent is allowed to
choose which counters are eliminated if you end up with more
than three counters in a stack at the end of the movement
phase.
COMBAT PHASES
In a combat phase each of your stacks is allowed to make one
attack against an enemy stack in an adjacent area. Note that
attacks are made by and against stacks, not individual
counters. If one of the counters in a stack makes an attack,
then all of the others must take part in that attack as well.
Similarly, you are not allowed to pick out one enemy unit in a
stack and only attack that one, you must attack the whole
stack.
EXAMPLE OF MOVEMENT
It's the start of the Ork movement phase in the second turn of the game. The
Orks have blown a hole in the Imperial lines and are now ready to exploit the
gap they have made.
The Gargant Big Mob moves first. It only has a movement value of] (Gargants
aren't noted for their speed), so it moves one area across the Diablo river to
occupy the smoking ruins on the other side.
The Nobz move second. They have a movement value of 2, so they can
move 2 areas. The Ork player moves them into the area with the
Gargants and then onto the ash wastes just beyond. From here the Nobz
threaten to outflank and surround the 6th Guard army.
Finally, the Ork player moves his Bad Moon battlewagons. These move 2
areas to join the Nobz. Although they have a movement value of 3, they
have to stop here, because a unit must stop moving when it enters an ash
waste area.

It's up to you in what order you make your attacks, but you
must finish one attack before you are allowed to move on to
the next one. In addition, you are not allowed to attack the
same enemy held area more than once per combat phase. If you
don't get it the first time you have to wait till your next
combat phase!
You are allowed to make combined attacks where two or more
of your stacks attack the same enemy stack, just so long as all
of the attacking stacks are adjacent to the stack being attacked.
The only exception is that Ork stacks belonging to different
tribes may not attack together.
Attacks are resolved by using the Combat Results Table
printed on the reference sheet. To resolve each attack you must
follow this simple 5 step procedure:
1.
'Re attacker adds up his counters' attack value.
2.
The defender adds up his counters' defence value.
3.
The two are converted to a ratio by dividing the
attacker's total by the defender's total, rounding any
fractions down. Some examples of how to work out odds
ratios are shown in the box to the right on this page. The
ratio determines which column is looked up on the
Combat Results Table.
4.
The attacker rolls a D6 and the score is cross-referenced
with the odds ratio to determine the outcome of the
battle. Sometimes modifiers are applied to the dice roll
(-1 for attacking across a river for example). However,
the dice roll can never be modified above 6 or below 1.
5.
Look up the result under the Combat Results Table and
follow the instructions there. Note: On results that call
for 'one counter' to be eliminated, the player who
controls the counters is allowed to decide which is
removed
WORKING OUT ODDS RATIOS
Working out the odds ratios may seem difficult at first, but you'll very
quickly get the hang of it. Here are a few examples to get you started:
Assume the attacker has 12 points and the defender has 4 points. 12
divided by 4 is 3, so the odds ratio is 3 to 1.
If the tables were turned and it was the attacker who had 4 points to the
defender's 12, then the odds would be I to 3 instead of 3 to 1. If the
attacker only had 11 points to the defender's 4, then the ratio would be
2 and a bit to 1, which is rounded down to 2 to 1.
RETREATS
Several results on the Combat Results Table call for one
player's counters 
to retreat. 
 Retreating 
counters 
are
immediately moved one area by the player that controls them.
They may move into any area that they could enter using the
normal rules for movement. Counters may not retreat into an
area if this would cause over-stacking.
If the counters cannot retreat for any reason, then they are
eliminated instead. Note that this means that pieces with a
movement value of 0 are destroyed if forced to retreat, as they
are not allowed to move.
Sometimes a counter that has already retreated will find itself
in an area that is attacked later in the same combat phase. If
this happens, then any counters that have already retreated are
treated as having a defence strength of 0, may not be used to
satisfy combat losses, and will be destroyed if forced to retreat
a second time.
At the start of an Ork combat phase the situation is as shown on the first
diagram. The Ork player has decided to attack the 3rd Guard Army and the
2nd Brigade of Rough Riders with the Goff units shown, led by Ghazghkull
himself. He can't use the Bad Moon hordes as well, because counters from
different Ork clans are not allowed to combine to make an attack.
The two defending Imperial counters have a combined defence value of2+4=6,
while the Orks have a combined attack value of 6+5+6+6+6=29. 29 divided
by 6 equals 4 and a bit to 1, which rounds down to 4-1 on the Combat Results
Table. If the Ork player had been able to scrape together just I more attack
point to bring his total up to 30 points he would have had a combat ratio of5-
The Ork player rolls the dice and scores a 2. No modifiers apply to the
dice roll (the - I modifier for a river only applies if all the attackers are
coming across a river). A roll of 2 at 4-1 odds is an EX or Exchange
result, which means that both the attacker and the defender must lose a
counter from each stack, and then the defender has to retreat. 7his is just
about the worst result the Orks could have got, so the Ork player decides
to use Ghazghkull's special ability to reroll the dice. 7hiv lime he rolls a
magnificent 6 and gas a DE or Defender Eliminated result. 7'his wipes out
both the Imperial counters, and the Ork player can now advance into the
area with any units that have a movement value of 2 or more. He decides

BUILD PHASES
In a build phase you are allowed to add new counters to your
army. If you don't have a build phase, it is assumed that your
workers are being used to make extra supplies to cover the
extra combat phase(s) you will be taking, instead of making
tanks and guns to equip new units.
IMPERIAL BUILD PHASES
The Imperial player uses build points to buy new counters, or
to rebuild counters that have been destroyed. The number of
build points is recorded on the build point track on the
gameboard, and depends on how many hives and factories are
still intact. Each hive or factory produces a number of build
points equal to its defence value (the second number on the
counter). Whenever a hive or factory is reduced to smoking
ruins, move the marker on the track down a number of spaces
equal to its defence value. When a hive or factory is rebuilt,
move the marker back up.
The number of build points it costs to build each counter is
shown on the reference sheet. If a counter is not included on
the reference sheet, like the Space Marine Chapters, then it
cannot be rebuilt. You can choose which counters to build
from those lost so far, or from any that were set aside at the
start of the game. Although counters of the same type have
different combat and movement values, they all cost the same
number of points to build. For example, if you built an
Imperial Guard counter, you could choose to take the 1st Army
(a 4-5-1) or the 20th (a 2-3-1) - I know which one I'd choose!
Any build points that you don't use are lost, so you should try
to use them all up if possible.
Once you've selected all the counters you want to build, place
them on the production track on the game board in the space
marked with their name. Next you must move all the counters
on the production track one space to the right, towards the
'ready' box. Any counters that are moved into the 'ready' box
can be transferred to the game map. Note that you move all of
the counters on the track, including those that you have just
built; this means that Hive Gangs are placed on the map on the
same rum that they are built. New counters must be placed
with a hive or factory, subject to the rules for stacking. If you
can't fit all of the counters onto the map, then any excess must
stay on the production track.
ORK BUILD PHASES
The Ork player may rebuild one counter for each two smoking
ruins he controls. A smoking ruin is controlled by the Orks if
it is stacked with an Ork counter. For example, if you control
five smoking ruins, then you could only rebuild two counters;
the fifth smoking ruin is not part of a pair and does not entitle
you to another counter.
You may choose which counters to return to play freely from
those lost so far, apart from the Warlord Ghazghkull counter,
which may not be rebuilt. The counters may be placed on a
garrisoned smoking ruin or an Ork supply area, subject to the
rules for stacking.
SUPPLY
In order to keep your armies fighting you must supply them
with food, ammunition and fuel. After you have completed
both of the phases listed on your strategy card, you must make
sure that your counters can trace a supply line back to one of
its own side's supply areas.
Supply lines are traced along a path of areas from the counters
back to the supply area. The path may be of any length but
may not enter a) an area occupied by enemy counters, b) a
mountain area, or c) a sea area. Supply lines can be traced
through ash wastes.
Counters that are out of supply are destroyed, unless they are
in a stack that includes a hive or fortification. If a stack does
include a hive or fortification, then it is only destroyed on a
D6 roll of 1-3. U a stack includes both a hive and a
fortification, then roll the dice twice, and the stack is only
eliminated if you fail both rolls. Note that you roll for the
entire stack, not for each counter in the stack.
The diagram shows the situation at the start of the Imperial player's turn. 7he
two Alive Gang units are out of supply, as they cannot trace a route to a
supply area that does not pass through areas occupied by enemy units.
Because of this they will be eliminated at the end of the Imperial player's turn
unless he can open up a supply line to them. Note that the units in Helsreach
are in supply, because Helsreach is a supply area itself (it was a "major port
supplies 
could 
be 
brought 
in 
by 
ships 
submarines).

On the day of the Feast of the Emperor's Ascension, 40,941,
the massive Ork assault on Hiveworld Armageddon began.
System ships from space hulk Alveus Alpha Alpha Sextus
smashed through the orbital cordon of the planet, annihilating
the obsolete orbital monitors completely. A massive space
drop swiftly overwhelmed most of the western continent of
Armageddon Prime. Lightning assaults by the highly mobile
Ork forces encircled hive after hive. Tens of thousands of Ork
Boyz blasted through the hives' outer defences and massacred
or enslaved 
the populations 
within. Soon 
lines 
communication were cut and vital supplies started to run out.
Across the continent the forces of humanity were driven into
retreat. Due to criminal negligence on the part of
Overlord Von Strab (cross-reference to Administratum file:
Armageddon 40004, Prosecutions for war crimes), the ill-
prepared human forces were nearly swept away under the green
tide. Divisions of the Planetary Defence Force were sent out
piecemeal by Von Strab only to be outflanked and destroyed
by the enemy.
Endless columns of Ork war machines, raised plumes of dust
hundreds of metres high as they raced across the ashwastes.
The voices of a hundred thousand Orks roared their brutal cries
of victory. Reports came in from battlefield after battlefield
where the blood of brave human warriors stained 
multicoloured sands. It became obvious that Von Strab had
seriously underestimated the cunning and strategic ability of
his foe, Ghazghkull Thraka, Overboss of all the Goffs, Prophet
of the Waaa!

Interrogation of Ork prisoners by elements of the Inquisition
has enabled us to piece together a picture of this remarkable
individual. Ghazghkull started his career as a common Ork
trooper on the backwater world of Urk. During the course of a
raid a bolter shell pulped a large area of his cranium and he
suffered extensive brain damage. An Ork Painboy called Dok
Grotsnik replaced part of his cerebellum with a bionic device.
It may be that this device somehow triggered latent psionic
powers or it may be that Ghazghkull simply suffered from
delusions, but, for whatever reason, he claimed to be in contact
with the Ork's so-called deities, Gork and Mork.
Some dark power certainly favoured him, for his rise to
prominence among the Orks of Urk was meteoric. He swiftly
fought his way through the ranks till he achieved the position
of supreme planetary boss. Orks are simple, brutal creatures,
respecting little other than courage and battle prowess. It
cannot be doubted that Ghazghkull possessed both these
qualities in abundance. In addition he had something that
most Orks conspicuously lack: he had vision. He stirred the
Orks with impassioned speeches telling them it was their
mission to conquer the galaxy, to force all others to bow the
knee and pay tribute. He gave them a common purpose and an
overwhelming sense of destiny.
All of this might have gone for nought had not two other
things occurred near simultaneously. The first was that Urk's
sun started to flicker and die. The second was that by some
malign chance, or design, a space hulk drifted into the Urk
system. Ghazghkull told his followers that the first was a sign
from Gork and that the second was a gift from Mork. Those
who wanted to follow Thraka on his grand crusade could board
the hulk. Those who wished to disobey their gods could
remain behind to die. To an Ork they chose to follow Thraka.
To an Ork they followed him down to Armageddon,
abandoning their hulk to drift out-system. The Orks stranded
themselves on Armageddon. They would conquer or die.
If Ghazghkull was remarkable for his battle skills and his
single mindedness then his opponent was equally remarkable
for being his opposite. Herman Von Strab, youngest son of
Luthor Von Strab, was quite simply incompetent. He was
typical of a decadent planetary aristocracy who had acquired
power by assassination and intrigue and who retained it by
fear. Although personally fearless and ruthless to the point of
insanity, he had little
HIVE WORLDS
Hive worlds like Armageddon are planets that were
settled thousands of years ago, often before the time of
the Imperium. Their huge population far outweighs the
planet's ability to feed or support it. They are tough
places where little value is attached to human life,
while air, light and food are often precious and rare
commodities. The surface of the planet has been
plundered of all resources and has been reduced to
little more than an ashblown desert. The massive hives
and factory cities that sprawl across the land give the
planets their distinctive character and their collective
name of hive worlds.
understanding of the magnitude of the threat to his world
or how to deal with it. Long before the invasion occurred
omens predicting disaster were rife: the Imperial Tarot
gave the same consistent message in reading after reading;
Navigators on incoming 
freighters warned of great
disturbances in the Warp. The Statue of the Emperor in the
great shrine of Helsreach wept bloody tears. Von Strab
ignored all warnings.
When the hulk drifted in system he refused to dispatch any
ships to investigate. He said that no mere piece of cosmic
flotsam could threaten his ancestral world. He complied with
the standard instructions of the Codex Ministorum and
notified the Administratum of the sighting but that was all.
His investigative procedures were extra-ordinarily lax. Only
after the first Ork ships had landed was a distress call to the
Imperium sent out, and that was only because one of Von
Strab's subordinates, Commissar Yarrick, had the presence of
mind to dispatch it. Even then Von Strab refused to take the
threat seriously and had Yarrick banished to the southern
continent of Armageddon Secundus. He would not trouble the
Imperium with any requests for aid; he would triumph over the
Orks himself.
Despite having such a terrible commander the forces of
humanity fought bravely. They rallied to protect their home
hives and dug in to fight a brutal last-ditch defence against the
Ork invaders. Shattered armies fled across the wastes to reform
and regroup round the core hives. Columns of refugees tens of
kilometres long sought succour in the last bastions of
humanity on Armageddon Prime. In the South Commissar
Yarrick organised shuttle

runs to supply the embattled North. Courageous pilots ran the
Ork orbital blockade, skipping out of the atmosphere and back
in again before the Orks could intercept them. This was an
extremely risky technique and many shuttle captains perished
with their crews, the half-melted remains of their ships
plunging from the sky.
Even with these supply runs it looked as though the North
would fall. Von Strab hastily commandeered a ship and
relocated his headquarters to Tartarus Hive in the South.
Kurtiz Mannheim, Princeps Prime of the Iron Skull Titan
Legion temporarily stationed on Armageddon, warned that
soon the storm would blow south. He urged Von Strab to
prepare for an invasion. Three of the great Ork tribes were
unaccounted for in the North. The overlord ignored him; they
were being held in reserve, he said. They could never cross the
impenetrable jungle separating Prime and Secundus. Now he
would assemble a mighty counterattack and liberate the North.
Two days after Von Strab made his proclamation the Orks
invaded 
Armageddon 
Secundus; 
true 
battle 
Armageddon had begun. It started in the Season of Shadows,
when the volcanic mountains of Armageddon erupt, sending
great clouds of smoke and dust swirling across the turbulent
blood-coloured skies.
Massive armoured columns smashed through the thinly held
Imperial border positions. War buggies raced across the
blazing sands towards the human lines. A howling mass of
green-faced devils overran the hard-pressed human defenders.
By the flickering light of the Palidus Mountains, as Mount
Eschatus itself erupted and lava bubbled and hissed down its
slopes, man and Ork fought and died. Bolters thundered
relentlessly. Gargants lumbered forward, dwarfing fleeing
human warriors, myriad turrets spitting death. The Orks
punched holes through the human lines and drove south. Two
tribes swept east of the Palidian range heading towards Hades
hive. The remaining Ork tribe struck out west towards Port
Helsreach.
Despite the protests of Princeps Mannheim, Von Strab ordered
his most powerful mobile forces to stem the tide. Mannheim
argued it was better to wait and fight a holding action until
reinforcements from the Imperium arrived. Von Strab screamed
that he needed no help. Under oath to
THE EMPEROR
The Imperium of Man stretches across the galaxy from
rim to rim, encompassing over a million worlds and
untold billions of people. It is the largest empire that
has ever existed in the history of humanity. The
Imperium is ruled as it has been for the last 10,000
years by the Divine Champion of Man and Protector of
the Human Race, the Emperor of Mankind. The
Emperor is a godlike being with psionic powers that
are incomprehensible to ordinary humans. Without the
Emperor the Imperium would collapse and human
unity would be destroyed, leaving the remaining
pockets of civilisation isolated and vulnerable to the
alien creatures that seek to destroy or enslave the
human race.
obey his overlord Mannheim could say no more. He put on his
best dress uniform, thanked his staff for their loyalty, said
goodbye to his wife and children and then climbed into his
Titan, Steel Hammer.
Following Von Strab's orders he led his legion against the
strongest concentration of Ork forces while the first tank
division attempted to ambush another Ork force. Greatly
outnumbered, the Legion was cut down. Steel Hammer
managed to destroy three Ork Gargants before it was blown to
pieces. Mannheim refused to evacuate; instead preferring to
take his crippled Titan right into the heart of the Ork formation
as its reactor melted down. His crew chose to remain with him.
Mannheim was posthumously awarded the Emperor's Star.
Overwhelmed by sheer force of numbers and superior Ork
firepower, the Imperial forces were broken. The shattered
remnants of human divisions fell back to establish a defensive
line along the boiling river Stygies in the West and by the
rust-red banks of Diabolus in the East. Beaten men limped
across the wasteland, readying themselves to sell their lives
dearly in defence of their homeworld. Filled with triumph the
Orks advanced to meet them.
As the Season of Storms broke, blowing the clouds from the
sky the Orks' drive south continued. They punched through
the pitiful improvised defences the human survivors had built
along the riverbanks and swept round the Palidus Mountains
to Infernus hive. Demoralised by continuous news of defeat,
with no faith in the promises of the planetary overlord and
dismayed by the sheer size of the mechanised Ork hordes, the
Governor of Infernus surrendered without a fight. Bike-
mounted Ork outriders harried the hundred kilometre long
refugee columns that fled the city, herding them back to
Infernus and slave labour in the factories.
Given the fact that the Orks measured senior citizens, women
and children against their own n inhuman standards of
toughness, hundreds of thousands were to die in captivity.
Soon Hades hive cluster was besieged and the site of the
heaviest fighting yet seen during the campaign. Commissar
Yarrick supervised the defences. In those dark days he seemed
to be everywhere, supervising the welding shut of the great
blast portals, personally negotiating treaties of allegiance with
the hive gangs and inducting them into the army, raising the
spirits of a people demoralised by starvation and defeat with
his own unquenchable belief in ultimate victory. Amazingly
he welded together a ragtag army capable of standing off the
Orks. At Hades they halted.
One can only imagine what it must have been like. The
hundreds of kilometres of earthworks hastily thrown up by the
Ork siege engineers, the giant Gargants blasting away at the
distant hive spires, guns thundering like the laughter of mad
gods. Hundreds of thousands of red hate-filled eyes glaring at
the prize, so near and yet so unreachable. The human
population scuttling through the shadows of the hive, endless
kilometres of corridor darkened from the need to save power.
Thousands starving or eating rats and roaches. Who knows
what feats of heroism and horror took place in that place, at
that time? Those who survived do not talk much about it, save
to praise the bravery of Yarrick.

HIVE GANGS
There are many different types of armed band on Armageddon,
including clan warriors, bands of ash nomads, mutant bands
from the undercities of the hives, outcast groups of fugitive
psykers, unruly brat gangs from the upper hive layers, as well as
professional bounty-hunters, guards and retainers, and many,
many others. In times of great peril these unruly warriors are
banded together to fight alongside the more organised and
disciplined Imperial forces. Although looked down on by the
regular Imperial troops, hive gang armies often spelt the
difference between victory and defeat in the Armageddon
campaign.
Overlord Von Strab announced that he possessed a secret
weapon that would win the war for the humans. To the horror
of his generals he revealed that one old legend was true. His
family did indeed possess a stock of ancient virus bombs from
the time when Armageddon was first colonised. These
millennia-old devices, mounted on antique missiles, were
hastily pressed into service. Unfortunately they were so old
that many malfunctioned, rockets refused to fire, detonators
refused to arm and the virus itself had lost potency over time.
The missiles wreaked terrible havoc among the Orks but not on
the scale hoped for. The Ork advance was not stopped. Von
Strab retired to his fortified bunker to sulk.
In the West the defenders of the port of Helsreach, heartened by
the resistance in Hades, put up a brave fight. They defended
the dockyards and refineries bravely. Street gangs using
improvised weapons ambushed the Orks at every turn. Hastily
converted armoured supertankers were pressed into service to
evacuate non-combatants. There was not enough room to take
everyone so lots were drawn for berths on the ship. Weeping
families parted knowing that they probably would never see
each other again.
Once the last ship had sailed the defenders knew there was no
refuge for them; each member of the assembled Hive Defence
Units swore a mighty oath to sell his life as dearly as possible.
Driven by hate and rage they fought the Orks with the fury of a
berserk rhynodon. Suicide bombers leapt amid Ork patrols
and detonated their chest bombs. The corridors of Helsreach
ran with blood. The drivers of the great loading cranes in the
harbour welded themselves into their vehicles and attacked
Gargants. Wave after wave of Ork attacks were repulsed until
even the Ork generals began to doubt the wisdom of their
attack. Messages of hope from Helsreach were broadcast over
the com-net in Hades hive.
It was the people of Helsreach's darkest hour when the port
finally fell. Defeat, when it came, arrived from a most
unexpected quarter. Ork Weirdboyz summoned a psychic
storm. Waves of pain burst into the minds of the hive's
defenders. Some went mad, some died of shock, the heads of
some exploded. Under cover of this storm the Orks entered
Helsreach and wiped out the defenders to the last man. When
word of the fall of Helsreach reached Hades Commissar Yarrick
ordered an hour of silence and then locked himself in the
Emperor's Chapel to pray. Some say that the old man
communed with the deity and found fresh inspiration. Those
who knew him well say he wept.
Ghazghkull himself arrived to supervise the siege of Hades.
He had heard tales of bitter human resistance and thought he'd
better oversee the defeat of Yarrick personally. For weeks a
long duel was fought out under the dreadful yellow sky.
Ghazghkull tried every stratagem that Gork and Mork told
him. He feigned assaults on one part of the hive while the
main strength of his troops attacked elsewhere. He airdropped
elite kommando units onto the peak--, of the hive spires and
ordered them to seek entrance through the ventilation system.
He ordered his Mekboyz to build him mighty siege engines,
enormous towers with huge jackhammers, modified Gargants
with earthmoving blades and great scoops, giant earthboring
drills that sought to eat through the surface of the hive.
For every strategy implemented by the Orks Yarrick found an
answer. Mobile 
reserves 
used 
hive's 
transport
infrastructure to respond to the feints. The kommandos were
met by volunteer cadres of tunnel fighters, drug-crazed
madmen chosen from the depleted ranks of the cities'
maintenance engineers, many of whom had lost all their loved
ones during the siege. These men slipped 
into 
maintenance shafts stripped naked, armed only with bolt
pistol and knife and an extensive knowledge of the system
that enabled them to lay traps and ambushes. These men
fought a lonely and unsung war in the terrible darkness but
they did their job. Not a single Ork kommando was ever
found. Suicide squads from the Hive Defence Force snuck out
at night and sabotaged the siege machines.

THE FIGHTING FORCES OF THE IMPERIUM
SPACE MARINES
The Space Marines are the finest warriors in the entire
Imperium. They are divided into about a thousand
different Chapters, each a small independent army
with its own spacefleet and everything it needs to
function. The Chapters are scattered throughout the
Imperium so that wherever danger threatens their will
always be Space Marines nearby. As the highly
mobile elite of the Imperium the Space Marines are
often used as a primary strike force, holding the
situation while the larger and less mobile formations
of the Imperial Guard are being transported to the
warzone. On other occasions the Space Marines fight
alongside troops from the Imperial Guard or Titan
Legions, adding their considerable might to the
combined forces of the Imperium.
IMPERIAL GUARD
The Imperial Guard is the most important and by far the
largest fighting force in the Imperium. War is a fact of
life in a hostile universe, so the Imperial Guard is
constantly active throughout die galaxy defending
human worlds, attacking hostile aliens, and battling for
possession 
newly 
discovered 
planets. 
 The
effectiveness of the different Imperial Guard armies
varies depending on the quality of their officers, their
training, and their traditions and history. The 1st
Armageddon, for example, has a proud 
history
stretching back to the colonisation of the planet, and
therefore has the pick of any new recruits, while the
19th Army was raised from criminals under death
sentence, and has a very poor reputation indeed.
TITAN LEGIONS
Titans are the largest and most powerful of all the
gigantic war machines in the Imperial forces. Titans are
usually human shaped with two legs and arms, an
armoured torso, and a head where the command bridge is
located. Each vast war machine requires a substantial crew
to control its movement and the firing of its mighty
weapons. A Titan Legion has hundreds of these huge
machines, and is an army in its own right, with its own
types of support infantry and tanks. Although it is not as
fast and mobile as a Space Marine Chapter, the sheer
firepower of a Titan Legion makes it one of the most
awesome weapons in the Imperial arsenal.

While the siege of Hades continued Ork columns rolled south
from Helsreach and Infernus. They were heading for Acheron
and what appeared to be the last bastion of human resistance.
It was the beginning of the Season of Fire and temperatures
outside the hive cities had started to soar. The hardy Orks and
the specially equipped human military didn't have to worry
but the refugees who had escaped the Orkish net began to die
in droves.
The Acheronians steeled themselves for battle. They knew
their time had come. Looking out through their hive's ocular
monitors 
they could see the endless 
ranks 
Orks
approaching. Horn-helmed bikers, kustomised war buggies
and great siege engines stretched out to the horizon. The only
promise of support they had was from Overlord Von Strab. It
consisted of his personal good-wishes and twenty of his elite
personal bodyguard who had displeased him.
With an earthshaking roar the Orks advanced, the air itself
vibrating with the thrum of thousands of powerful engines.
They swept through the outer hives of the cluster and laid
siege to the core hive itself. Poorly provisioned and
inadequately armed as his forces were, the Hive Governor
refused to surrender. "We will fight to the last man," he
announced. "And then our ghosts will come back to haunt the
Orkish scum."
The Orks charged, confident of victory. Suddenly great holes
were torn in their ranks. Mighty explosions tossed their
vehicles into the air like chaff. The inhabitants of Acheron
looked on in amazement as the orbital 
bombardment
continued. 
 Great ships 
filled the sky 
Imperial
Thunderhawks dropped earthward, delivering advance squads
of Space Marines. Taken by surprise the Orks reeled back. The
Space Marines continued to pour forth from their landing craft,
bolters spitting death. The hive defenders rallied and emerged
to aid their saviours. For the first time since the campaign
started the Orks tasted defeat.
The Space Marines swiftly established a beach head. Despite a
strongly worded protest from Von Strab the expeditionary
force leader, Commander Dante of the Blood Angels Chapter
announced that he was taking over as Supreme Commander of
all Imperial Forces on the planet. Acheron was to be his
temporary field headquarters. He issued orders for Von Strab
to be placed under house arrest pending trial for assassination,
murder and gross negligence of duty in the face of the enemy.
Vowing he would never submit to the judgement of his
inferiors Von Strab managed to shoot his way to freedom and
escaped into the desert. His wrecked landspeeder was later
found but his body was never recovered.
Perhaps if more Ork forces had been thrown south the Space
Marines might have been stopped before they could mount a
counter thrust but Ghazghkull had made one of his rare
mistakes. In the area surrounding Hades cluster more and more
Ork units assembled in preparation for the final assault.
Ghazghkull was taking no chances. He was gathering
sufficient troops to annihilate the humans at a stroke. Within
the hive, in spite of Yarrick's careful husbanding of its meagre
resources, food finally ran out. Now shuttles carried food from
North to South, in a reversal of the war's former pattern. A
mood of fatalism and despair hung over the entire population
and not even Yarrick's example could lift their spirits. It was
as if the whole population had a premonition of doom.
THE ORKS
Orks are a tough, brutal and remarkably successful
race. They rank amongst the most powerful warriors
in the whole galaxy and they control a significant
part of known space. However, this sprawling
territory is divided among thousands of individual
Warlords who are fiercely competitive and spend
much of their time fighting each other. Were Orkdom
ever to unit against the Imperium it is unlikely that
humanity would survive very long.
ORK TRIBES & CLANS
All Orks belong to a clan. There are six main Ork
clans, each of which is noted for its particular way of
life and fighting. An Ork Warlord will command Orks
from many clans using the best of each to form a
powerful army called a tribe. However, the Warlord's
clan will usually make up at least half of the tribe's
strength. A tribe may be settled or nomadic, it may
have an empire of its own or be just a migrating horde
of pirates and raiders. In any case, the tribe adopts a
special name for itself, often incorporating the name
of their leader, such as Waa-Chargerz-Ugulhard, or
"We are Ugulhard's Chargers".
WAA-ORK
The Waa-Ork is a sort of crusade when the Orks stop
fighting each other and decide to stomp somebody
else instead. When a Warlord gets really powerful
other Orks sense it and flock to join him, increasing
his power and encouraging more and more Boyz to
join the growing Waa-Ork. Within a Waa-Ork there
may be many tribes, all united under the command of
one charismatic leader. The Waa-Ork is a time when
tribes come together, a time of great 
works,
migrations, wars and conquest.

EVIL SUNZ CLAN
The Evil Sunz are strangely and uncontrollably
attracted to fast vehicles and loud noises. Actually
this is true of all Orks, but in the case of the Evil Sunz
the attraction is especially strong. Because of this
the Evil Sunz clan has more vehicles than any of the
other clans. It is especially famous for its Bikeboyz,
who are always at the forefront of any Ork advance,
and often go on raids deep behind the enemy's front
line. Evil Sunz like to wear red, a colour which the
Orks associate with speed.
GOFFCLAN
Goffs are the most aggressive of all the Orks - which
is saying something! They pride themselves on
being the most Orky of all clans - carrying the most
destructive weapons and fighting harder than the rest.
Goffs like to get where the fighting is as quickly as
they can and attack their enemies at close quarters.
They prefer to wear black, which is the only proper
Orky colour as far as they are concerned, sometimes
with a red trim or with black and white checks.
BAD MOONS CLAN
Orks quite sensibly use their teeth as currency, and as
the Bad Moons' teeth grow faster than anyone else's
they are the richest of all the clans. The other Orks
don't think that this is an unfair advantage, after all if
you're hard enough you can always bash a Bad Moon
over the head and steal his teeth. Bad Moonz have a
wide variety of the best and most elaborate weapons
and vehicles. They flaunt gaudy and colourful
clothes in vivid yellow and black patterns.
Even as the final assault began a relief force headed by the
Salamanders, the Ultramarines and the Blood Angels raced
north in an effort to relieve Hades hive. Just as the Space
Marines broke through the Ork front lines, Hades fell.
Stor.mboyz scoured the corridors, the last blast doors were
cracked and fighting raged through the former homes and work
places of the people. In the last few hours the fighting was
deadly and virtually hand to hand as battle raged through the
last secure areas of the Hive. Commissar Yarrick was one of the
few survivors. His terribly wounded body was found in the
ruins, dozens of Ork bodies heaped at his feet. Fortunately for
the Imperium this exceptionally brave warrior lived to fight
another day.
In the West a new wave of Ork reinforcements had arrived and a
massive push against Tartarus hive began. The Imperial lines
had been stripped bare in order to mount the ill-fated relief
operation on Hades hive and the Orks easily broke through
and pushed on south to besiege Tartarus hive. Ghazghkull
himself took personal command of the assault and launched
his last desperate attempt to win the war. For days everything
hung in the balance. If the Orks could take Tartarus they could
break the back of Imperial resistance, devastating the South's
industrial base to the point where the war would become
unwinnable. It looked for a while as if he might succeed as
headlong assaults swept over the city.
In a desperate gamble Dante's men returned to their ships. The
Space Marines descended by drop-pod behind the main body
of the Ork spearhead, cutting off an entire Ork tribe. Dante
himself led an assault on Ghazghkull's headquarters but the
lightning raid failed to capture the Ork Chieftain who was
touring the front lines at the time.
Now the final and most bitter battle of the war began. The Orks
had nothing to lose; it was fight or die. The Imperial forces
knew that the fate of the world lay in their hands. No quarter
was asked, no quarter was given. The second battle of Tartarus
was a bloodbath from start to finish. Savage hand to hand
fighting raged through the thoroughfares of the hive. Giant
set piece battles were fought over its surface. Space Marine
strike forces sowed terror and confusion behind Ork lines.
Time after time the embattled Orks attempted a breakout. Time
after time the Imperial forces beat them back by the slimmest
of margins. In the end, the Orks simply ran out of food and
ammunition and still they refused to surrender. They fought
on with knives and thrown rocks till they were eradicated
almost to the last Ork.
It is said that Ghazghkull himself fell, a bolter shell piercing
his mechanical brain as he tried to rally his fleeing ladz for a
desperate last stand. No-one knows for certain. His body was
never found.
With the Ork leader dead and half their army wiped out at a
stroke, the war was now to all intents and purposes over. It
raged on for another six months with invaders slowly being
pushed back into the northern jungles but from the moment
Tartarus was relieved Imperial victory seemed assured. And so
it turned out to be.
GARGANT BIG MOBS
At the very core of Waa-Ork lies the construction of
gigantic machines known as Gargants. Each Gargant
is a titanic, mechanical, fighting, fire-belching idol
built in the image of the Ork gods of war. At the start
of the Waa-Ork the tribe's Mekboyz, the mechanics
and engineers of the Ork race begin to start building
these huge fighting machines. Each Mekaniak tries
to outdo his rivals by building the largest, shootiest
Gargant, so that soon each tribe has dozens of these
monstrous machines to group together to form a
Gargant big mob.

CHRONOLOGY
Date
Events
-8 years
Ghazghkull Thraka suffers a serious head wound.
He wakes up with a stainless steel skull, psychic
powers, and the knowledge that he is on a mission
from the gods (Gork and Mork).
-2 years
Ghazghkull has fought his way up to being the
leader of his whole tribe. He is doing his best to
start a Waa-Ork, but is finding it difficult to
convince the leaders of the other four tribes on the
planet that they should do what he says.
-1 year
The sun around which the Orks' planet orbits starts
to die, and an absolutely huge space hulk appears
in system. Ghazghkull convinces the other Orks
that this is a sign from the gods, and that they
should unite under his leadership - the Waa-Ork is
now on!
-9 months
The five Ork tribes and all the Wildboyz on the
planet board the space hulk and set off into the
warp. During the journey the space hulk's power
fields fail and it is attacked by all kinds of horrible
warp creatures, but Ghazghkull 
and the Ork
Weirdboyz beat them off.
-7 months
The space hulk arrives in the Armageddon system,
starts 
to 
drift 
towards 
planet.
Armageddon's system defence craft attack the space
hulk in a futile effort to destroy it, but they fail and
are wiped out. Distress messages are sent calling
out for help. The only readily available force, three
Space Marine Chapters, prepares to move out.
-6 months
The space hulk reaches the planet and the Orks
invade. The initial invasion blows the Imperial
forces out of the way and Armageddon Prime is
quickly overrun. A serious warp storm erupts,
cutting off the planet from Imperial assistance.
-3 months
Two Ork tribes strike north, away from Armageddon
Secundus. Imperial forces manage to hold this
attack. Herman Von Strab, Imperial Overlord of
Armageddon, is convinced that the other three
tribes are being held in reserve to reinforce this
attack, and says it is impossible for the Orks to
move through the thick jungle that separates
Armageddon Prime and Armageddon Secundus.
Commissar Yarrick is banished to Hades hive for
daring to oppose this view. Armageddon is still
cut off by warp storms.
Turn 1
Three Ork tribes smash into Armageddon Secundus'
border defences, catching the unprepared defenders
completely by surprise. Ork armoured formations
penetrate deep into Imperial territory. Two tribes
go east of the Diablo mountains, while the third
goes west. 111 conceived and poorly co-ordinated
counterattacks, ordered by Overlord Strab, are
crushed. Shattered Imperial forces fall back to the
Diabolus and Stygies rivers, and attempt to form a
new defensive line, but are stretched very thin
indeed. The warp storms continue.
Date
Events
Turn 2
The Orks crash through the new Imperial line.
Sweeping round the Palidus mountains, Ork
forces surround Infernus hive, which surrenders
without a fight. Ork columns reach the outskirts
of both Hades and Helsreach hive clusters. Hive
gangs are conscripted and formed into polyglot
armies that are hurled into the front line.
Overlord Strab unleashes his Secret supply of virus
bombs, but they are largely ineffective against
the hardy Ork hordes. An Ork assault on
Helsreach, aided by a psychic storm created by
Ork Weirdboyz, smashes its defences and the
hive falls. However, an assault 
on Hades
commanded by Ghazghkull 
is turned back,
largely thanks to the efforts of Commissar
Yarrick. 
 
The 
warp 
storms 
end 
communication 
with 
Imperium 
is 
re-
established.
Turn 3
Ork forces consolidate their positions 
round
Infernus and Helsreach, and start moving south.
An offensive is launched towards Acheron hive,
but is turned back by the timely arrival of the
Space Marines. Hades is surrounded, 
but
continues to hold out, supplied by specially
adapted shuttles. This resistance proves to be
vital, as more and more Orks are drawn into the
siege, allowing Imperial forces elsewhere a vital
breathing space.
Turn 4
An Imperial offensive, spear-headed by the Space
Marines, is launched to relieve Hades hive, but it
falls to a huge Ork assault just three days before
Imperial relief columns break through the Ork
lines. Commissar Yarrick survives the fighting.
In the west, large numbers of Ork reinforcements
reach the front lines, and the Orks launch a new
offensive towards Tartarus hive. The Imperial
lines, stripped of units to aid fighting in the east,
can't hold the Orks who break through and
plunge deep into Imperial territory.
Turn 5
In the east Imperial forces start to push the Orks
back past the Diablo Mountains. Ork units form
a new line on the Diabolus River. In the west, the
boot is on the other foot, as the Ork forces reach
the river Skeletus and launch headlong assaults
on Tartarus hive. Tartarus holds out - just - and
Imperial 
forces 
launch 
a 
devastating
counterattack. The Space Marines use their drop
pods to land behind the Ork spear-heads and
succeed in cutting off an entire Ork tribe.
Desperate attempts by the Orks to break out are to
no avail. Lacking food and ammunition, the tribe
is virtually destroyed. In one fell stroke almost
half the Ork army is destroyed.
Turns 6-8
The defeat at Tartarus hive spells the end of any
hopes of an Ork victory. They are pushed back
all along the line. Helsreach and Infernus are
recaptured by the end of turn 8, and the battered
Ork survivors retreat into the jungles to the
north. The Armageddon campaign is over.

BIOGRAPHIES
HERMAN VON STRAB
Herman Von Strab, fourth son of the Overlord of
Armageddon Luthor Von Strab, climbed to power in the
customary way by assassinating his brothers, the other
claimants to the throne. A brutal man possessed of low
cunning and considerable charisma, most of his
brothers considered him too stupid, too violent or
simply too unsophisticated to take seriously as a rival.
They underestimated him to their cost. His methods
may have lacked the polish so admired by the
sophisticates of the hive cities but they were effective.
A bomb at a banquet eliminated his eldest brother
Anton and three hundred and twenty two guests,
including the Imperial Representative. Otto was killed
by a hit and run driver. Vilhelm was found in his room,
his body riddled with bolter shells. Herman was found
standing over his brother's corpse with a smoking
weapon in his hand. He
pronounced 
it 
worst case of suicide he
had ever seen. The
investigating 
officers
were 
too 
scared 
to
contradict 
him.
Herman's 
father,
already ill, died of a
combination 
grief
spidervenom
poisoning. 
 
Shortly
thereafter 
Herman
became Overlord of an
entire world.
WARLORD
GHAZGHKULL THRAKA
Ghazghkull Thraka had half his head blown off by an
enemy bolter shell, and was lucky enough to have his
brain rebuilt by a talented Painboy 
called Dok
Grotsnik. The bionic device activated Ghazghkull's
latent psychic powers, and he became an Ork with a
Mission, convinced that he was in communication with
the Ork deities, Gork and Mork. Ghazghkull saw
himself as the leader of a great crusade for Orkishness
across the universe. He was a masterly opportunist and
a great tactician, ever ready to exploit any weakness an
opponent 
might
present. His only real
flaw as a commander
was his 
respect 
particularly courageous
or cunning opponents.
He was often known to
spare their lives and
offer them positions on
his staff.
SPACE MARINE
COMMANDER DANTE
Blood Angel Commander Dante had a reputation for
being stubborn and the strictest of disciplinarians. He
prayed to the Emperor every dawn, he was never heard
to raise his voice or shout. He always spoke the truth
whether it was diplomatic or not. His men respected
him rather than loved him. As a supreme commander he
undoubtedly had his flaws, but as a wartime general
only one thing needs to be said: he was never beaten.
Utterly fearless, full of drive and initiative, he was
always up in front where
the battle was fiercest. If
his 
opponent 
made 
a
mistake, Dante was on to
it like a flash. When it
came to choosing a leader
Armageddon
intervention, 
commanders of the other
two orders unanimously
asked for him to be placed
in command.
COMMISSAR YARRICK
Commissar Yarrick was an old man when the siege of
Hades hive began. He had a long 
career of
distinguished service in the Planetary Defence Force
behind him and was scheduled for retirement on the
Feast of the Ascension. Yarrick had a reputation for
being utterly loyal to the Imperium and an inspiring
leader of men. In his youth he had learned the language
of the Orks from a captured Ork raider and he was an
expert on the way the Ork mind worked. A better leader
than Von Strab would have paid more attention to what
he said, but instead Von Strab grew angry with the old
man for daring to contradict his views of what the Orks
planned to do. Herman could not have Yarrick killed,
as 
he 
knew 
an
investigation 
would
reveal his crime once
Emperor's
representatives arrived.
Instead he dispatched
the old man to Hades
hive to keep him out of
the way. As it turned
out, this was one of the
few wise decisions that
Von Strab made during
the campaign...

DESIGNER’S NOTES
I can still remember the first board wargame I ever bought. I
was fourteen years old, and I'd found a stack of simply
produced boxes of board wargames tucked away in a corner of
a military bookshop. I was already a keen tabletop gamer, and
my attention was immediately 
caught by these board
wargames. Everything you needed to play was included, and
there was such a large choice! I walked out of the shop the
proud owner of a huge and sweeping wargame based on the
battle for Kursk, a campaign from WWII that featured the
largest tank battles the world has ever seen - and that includes
Desert Storm!
Over the next few weeks I played the game again and again,
either with my friends, or 'solo' taking command of both sides.
Numerous strategies were tried, only to be countered by
cunning new plans from the opposing side. Entire tank
divisions were hurled into battle, only to he turned back by
mammoth airstrikes and massed anti-tank guns. I was hooked!
Over the years my collection of board wargames grew and grew.
Although they were not the only types of game I played - I was
still primarily a tabletop gamer - they provided me with hours
of enjoyment. At this time there were many enthusiastic board
wargamers and countless different games were available. Some
were produced in cheap, unglamorous packaging by fellow
hobbyists, while others were professionally produced and
colourful. New games were coming out all the time, and my
friends and I used to go down to our local games store and
study the new releases, trying to decide which would be the
most fun to play.
So what exactly was it that appealed to me about these games?
First of all, as I mentioned above, a board wargame was
complete, with everything you needed to play included in the
box. What's more, you could have it set up and be playing a
game within a couple of hours of tearing off the shrink-wrap.
With a bit of thought it was possible to come up with cleverly
conceived plans that would help win you the game a bit like
chess openings or gambits. However, the plans would usually
only win you the game once, because by the next time you
played your opponent would have come up with a counter-
strategy! I spent many happy hours playing my board games
'solo', trying out new strategies for one side, and then trying to
counter it from the other half of the board. Only when my
plans had been fully tested in solo play were they put to test in
the white heat of face to face contest!
What particularly appealed to me was the sheer size of the
battles offered by a board wargame. Most of them dealt with
conflicts that were simply too large to be played out as a
tabletop game: battles that featured not hundreds or thousands
of men, but tens of thousands or even millions. And the games
weren't just about land battles. You could get games about the
huge naval battles in the Pacific that involved dozens of
battleships and destroyers, or the aerial battles that took place
between hundreds of planes during the Battle of Britain. There
were games that allowed you to re-fight the whole of the
Napoleonic Wars, or try to better Hannibal by actually
conquering Rome. And there were even science fiction games
where you led huge space armies in an attempt to conquer the
galaxy. Only with a board wargame did you get such variety,
or the opportunity to command a really huge army and fight
campaigns in which the fate of entire planets would hang in
the balance!
Board wargaming reached a peak of popularity in the late
i
l
i h i
d h
li
dil
i
longer available. However, I've still got a soft spot for those
old wargames, and I've been a bit sad to see their steady
decline. This was why I was so pleased to be asked to design a
game in the style of the board wargames. Here was my chance
to combine my love of big wargames with the rich Warhammer
40,000 background. What was more, it would give us a chance
to show how really large scale campaigns are fought in the
Warhammer 40,000 universe.
The first step in the designing Battle For Armageddon was to
decide on the background for the campaign. One side
obviously had to be the Imperium, as it would be unthinkable
that the game should not include those champions of
humanity, the Space Marines. Their opponents were more of a
problem, but in the end we plumped for the Orks, as they could
be guaranteed to give the Imperium a good straightforward
fight. On the basis that history repeats itself, our campaign
started out as an amalgam of three historical campaigns (see if
you can guess which!). However, it quickly developed a life of
its own as the huge amount of background work we've done on
the Warhammer 40,000 universe started to suggest things that
should be added to the game.
The next step was devising the basic game rules. We wanted to
create an enjoyable game that still included all of the most
important elements that make board wargaming so much fm.
We quickly decided to use areas on the map rather than lots of
ugly hexes. As you can see, Mark Gibbons has created one of
the most attractive maps we've ever produced! Most of the
games mechanics, such as the combat results table and
attack/defence/move values for the counters, were included in
the game right from the start, and have undergone remarkably
little change.
The strategy cards, on the other hand, were not added till fairly
late in the design. Before then the game had a more rigid
sequence of play, but we found this led to very predictable
games. The inclusion of the strategy cards solved this
problem while also adding an important element of planning
to the game, and allowing 
the possibility 
major
breakthroughs taking place if you managed to out think your
opponent.
The final step in the design process was to play the game again
and again to make sure that both sides had an equal chance of
winning. After many a hard fought game, I feel we've got play
balance about right now. Although some players felt that one
side or the other would always win, there was just about a
50/50 split on which side this was, which must mean that the
game is fairly even!
Originally I was going to finish these notes off by giving a few
hints and tips about how to play the game, but on
consideration I've decided not to do this as working out
strategies and tactics for yourself is very much part of the fun
of playing a game like Battle For Armageddon. Instead I'll
simply say that you should study Bill King's background
story very carefully, and then try to avoid the mistakes that
were made in the historical campaign by the side you are
playing. And if your first plan turns out to comparable to Von
Strab at his best, don't worry - you can always go back to the
drawing board and start again. Good Luck!
Jervis Johnson