TM

Unfurl the banners of the Great Houses of Westeros. To secure power 
in the Seven Kingdoms and to ensure the survival of their lines, 
the Houses of Westeros all follow very different paths. Some forge 
strategic alliances, some create complex political intrigues, and still 
others use deceit and betrayal. But there is no more direct or lasting 
path to power than taking to the field of battle.
The Houses of Westeros command vast armies of soldiers–some 
mounted on horses and others on foot. These men are armed not 
only with spears, swords, and bows, but also siege engines and other 
powerful machines of war. Across Westeros, the martial drums are 
calling to soldiers, strong and brave, and commanders, cunning 
and bold. 
Calling the Banners
When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
–Cersei Lannister
Will you heed the call?

Waging War in Westeros
BattleLore: Battles of Westeros (BOW) is a scenario-based game 
that allows players to recreate military engagements between the 
Great Houses of Westeros in the epic fantasy setting from George 
R. R. Martin’s bestselling novel series A Song of Ice and Fire. In 
the BOW core game, players control either House Stark or House 
Lannister. Future expansions will allow players to control other 
Houses. Each scenario, called a battle, has a battle plan that 
dictates the formation of the map (called the battlefield), starting 
positions of each House’s units, starting resources, special rules, 
and victory conditions for the game session.
Before each game of BOW, players must first agree upon and select 
a battle to play. Battles can be found in the included Westeros 
Battle Plans or online at:
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
A BOW battle is played over several rounds, with each round 
consisting of alternating player turns. The goals a player needs to 
accomplish to win a game of BOW can vary and are described in 
detail in the battle plan for the battle being played. Some battles 
require players to earn a certain number of victory points (VPs), 
while other battles require a player to take and hold strategic 
positions on the battlefield.
Players should feel free to invent their own battles with the 
components provided in the game.
Important Note: If the rules text of a card or other game 
component contradicts the text of this rulebook, the rules of the 
card or component take precedence.
Components
This Rulebook
1 Westeros Battle Plans book
138 Plastic Figures, consisting of:
32 War Host of the North (light grey)
12 Winterfell Riders (light grey)
12 Northmen Archers (light grey)
9 Stark Kennelmasters (light grey)
24 Lannisport Guards (red)
15 Casterly Rock Cavaliers (red)
12 Westerlands Archers (red)
12 Lannister Heavy Infantry (red)
5 Unique Stark Commanders (dark grey)
5 Unique Lannister Commanders (dark grey)
138 Green Figure Bases, consisting of:
98 Square Bases
40 Rectangular Bases
36 Brown Banner Poles
1 Six-panel Map Board
8 Dice (eight-sided)
110 Cards, consisting of:
14 Commander Cards
70 Leadership Cards
8 Unit Reference Cards, consisting of:
4 Stark Unit Reference Cards
4 Lannister Unit Reference Cards
16 Skirmish Setup Cards, consisting of:
8 Stark Skirmish Setup Cards
8 Lannister Skirmish Setup Cards
2 Skirmish Summary Cards, consisting of:
1 “Raid in the Riverlands” Skirmish Summary Card
1 “Westerlands Bounty” Skirmish Summary Card
32 Map Overlay Pieces with 9 Terrain Tokens
1 Stark Command Board
1 Lannister Command Board
1 Round Track
1 Round Marker
1 Stark Victory Point Marker
1 Lannister Victory Point Marker
1 Stark Morale Segment
1 Lannister Morale Segment
1 Neutral Morale Hub and Morale Marker
10 Command Tokens
50 Order Tokens, consisting of:
10 Green Shield Order Tokens
10 Blue Shield Order Tokens
10 Red Shield Order Tokens
10 Valor Order Tokens
10 Morale Order Tokens
86 Unit Banners, consisting of:
43 Stark Unit Banners
43 Lannister Unit Banners
14 Control Markers, consisting of:
7 Stark Control Markers
7 Lannister Control Markers
6 Directional Tokens
20 Engagement Tokens, consisting of:
10 Stark Engagement Tokens
10 Lannister Engagement Tokens
6 Devastation Tokens
18 Fire Tokens (varying values)
13 Strategy Tokens
3 Special Archer Tokens
1 Catelyn Stark Token and 2 Edmure Tully Tokens
7 Tent Tokens
8 Siege Tower Tokens
9 Catapult Targeting Tokens
10 Commander Discs
1 Momentum Token

Commander Cards
Commander cards represent 
the field commanders that 
lead an army during a given 
battle. Many commanders 
have multiple versions, each 
represented by a unique card, 
that have different abilities. 
Battle plans indicate which 
version of each commander a 
player must use.
Leadership Cards
Leadership cards are used by 
a player to give orders to his 
forces via his commanders. Each 
commander in a battle adds five 
commander-specific Leadership 
cards to the 10 basic Leadership 
cards to form a customized 
Leadership deck. The back of 
each player’s Leadership deck bears 
his House’s symbol.
Unit Reference Cards
Each House’s army units are 
described on double-sided 
Unit Reference cards. Each 
summarizes a given unit’s 
capabilities.
Skirmish Cards (Optional Rule only)
Skirmish Setup cards are used 
to generate a battle with random 
forces according to the “Skirmish” 
rules found on page 28. Each 
House uses its own set of 
cards detailing commander and 
unit options as well as specifics 
on terrain placement. Each 
Skirmish Summary card explains 
the Skirmish setup rules and 
victory conditions. 
Map Overlay Pieces
Map overlay pieces are placed on top of 
the map board to add additional terrain 
features. Map overlay pieces include 
natural terrain as well as man-made 
obstacles and structures. 
Component Overview
All components contained in the BOW core game are described in 
this section. 
Plastic Figures 
Stark and Lannister forces that players 
command on the battlefield are repre-
sented by 138 detailed plastic figures. 
Commanders are dark grey, House 
Stark units are light grey, and House 
Lannister units are red.
Figure Bases
The green figure bases come in two 
different shapes: square and rectangular. 
Cavalry units, cavalry commanders, 
and Stark Kennelmaster units are 
attached to the rectangular bases, while 
all other units in the core set use the 
square bases.
Banner Poles
Banner poles are used to hold the 
punchboard banners that help 
define the capabilities of each unit 
in play.
Map Board
The double-sided, six-panel 
map board is used to build 
the battlefield according to 
the specifics of each battle 
plan. The map board can be 
configured in a variety of ways 
by adding map overlays.
Dice
The eight-sided dice included in the core 
set are used to resolve combat and are also 
used for other game functions such as 
generating order tokens each round.

Command Boards
The command boards show which House a 
player controls. They are also used hold each 
player’s command tokens during the battle.
Round Track, Round Marker, and Victory 
Point Markers
The round marker is placed on the round track; the round marker’s 
position to mark the current round and how many rounds have 
passed. Each House also has a victory point marker that can be 
placed on the round track to tally victory points. All of these 
markers have a “+10” on their reverse sides for use if a House 
exceeds 10 victory points or a game goes longer than 10 rounds.
Morale Segments, Morale Hub, and the Morale Marker
Each House has its own morale segment that attaches to the 
morale hub to form the morale track. The placement of the single 
morale marker on the morale track indicates both Houses’ current 
morale. The sides of the morale segments are different, and each 
battle plan indicates which side of the morale segment a player 
must use.
Command Tokens
Command tokens are used to play Leadership cards and 
are used to determine who has the advantage in a round.
Order Tokens
Order tokens allow a player to give direct 
orders to a single unit. Order tokens come in 
five different varieties that correspond to the 
sides of the dice (Green Shield, Blue Shield, 
Red Shield, Valor, and Morale).
Banners
One figure of each unit must have 
a punchboard banner attached to a 
banner pole inserted in the figure’s 
base. The banner indicates the House 
a unit is from, its combat rank (green, 
blue, or red), and a round indicator. 
The round indicator, either white or 
black, is used to show whether or not a 
unit has been ordered.
Control Markers
These markers are placed on the battlefield 
to indicate when a House has control of a 
victory objective.
Directional Tokens
Directional tokens have a common back, and each has a 
unique number on the front that corresponds to a side 
of the directional indicator. They are used to randomly 
generate a direction for different game effects.
Engagement Tokens
Engagement tokens are used to mark melee 
attacks against adjacent enemy units. They are 
placed on the hex border between the attacker 
and the defender in a combat.
Devastation Tokens
Devastation tokens are used to mark hexes 
whose terrain has been destroyed by certain 
effects (such as fire).
Fire Tokens
Fire tokens are placed in hexes by certain abilities 
and are used to track the strength of a fire. Fire 
tokens can cause damage to certain terrain types 
and units.
Strategy Tokens
Strategy tokens are generic tokens 
used to represent goals for one side 
or the other in specific battles. Their 
exact use is described in individual 
battle plans.
Strategy tokens have a common back 
(depicting a helm). On the reverse is 
one of two colored symbols. The green 
symbol indicates a strategic location 
while the red symbol indicates a 
dummy location.
Special Archer Tokens
Special archer tokens are used in specific battles to 
mark the location of special groups of archers.

“Clash on the Kingsroad” Component Setup
1) Momentum Token
2) Command Board
3) Leadership Deck
4) Commander Cards
5) Unit Reference Cards
6) Dice
7) Engagement Tokens
8) Command Tokens
9) Order Tokens
10) Morale Track
11) Round/VP Track
12) Battlefield Map
Catelyn Token and Edmure Tokens
These tokens represent important 
personages that are present on the 
battlefield but are not taking part in the 
battle directly. Their function is described 
in individual battle plans.
Tent Tokens, Siege Tower Tokens, 
Commander Discs, and Catapult Targeting Tokens
These battle-specific tokens have different functions as described in 
individual battle plans and on certain Skirmish Summary cards.
MomentumToken
The player with the momentum token wins advantage if tied for 
the advantage at the start of a game round. The token is given to 
the player controlling the House specified in the battle plan. 
Preparing for Battle
This section describes the steps that players must perform before 
playing a game of BOW. 
Before playing their first battle, players should insert the figures 
into the figure bases provided, making sure that the hole for the 
banner pole is at the rear of the unit (see “Assembling Figures” 
sidebar on page 7).
Setting Up
To prepare the play area, follow the instructions in this section. 
First-time players should play the “Clash on the Kingsroad” battle 
first. Players can open the Westeros Battle Plans to page 4 for 
reference. A diagram of the component setup (without figures) of 
“Clash on the Kingsroad” can be found below.
1. Choose a Battle and a House to Play
Players must first choose a battle to play. Battles can be found in 
the Westeros Battle Plans (in this box), online at 
 www.FantasyFlightGames.com, and in future expansion sets for 
BOW. After choosing a battle, players decide which House each 
player will control for the battle. In the BOW core game, players 
have the choice of controlling either House Stark (white) or House 

Uncommitted 
Side
Committed 
Side
House Symbols
Stark
Lannister
of Winterfell
of Casterly Rock
Assembling Figures
Before beginning their first battle, players assemble all of the 
figures in the box. Each figure comes in two parts: the figure and 
the base. Players execute the following steps to properly assemble 
their figures:
1. Determine the Figure’s Base:
By looking at the tab a particular 
figure is attached to, a player can de-
termine which of the two base sizes to 
use: square or rectangular.
Each tab has a particular number of 
“teeth” that are inserted into a base. 
If there are three teeth, a rectangular 
base should be used. If there are two 
teeth, a square base should be used.
2. Insert the Figure into 
the Base:
After determining the proper base, a player need only press 
the tab into the slot on the base. When assembling figures, it 
should be noted that the hole for the banner should always go 
toward the back of the figure. 
It should be noted that due to normal factory variances, 
figures may not attach securely to their bases. This issue can 
be solved by adding a small amount of glue to the figures’ tabs 
before inserting them into the bases.
Many components are marked with the above House 
symbols to help determine which player a component 
belongs to. In the core game, House Stark and House 
Lannister are the two available houses.
Lannister (red). If both players wish to control the same House, 
players determine randomly (such as by flipping a coin) who 
controls which House.
Players take the command board, the Leadership cards, the 
Commander cards, and the Unit Reference cards of their chosen 
House. Each card for a particular House has the House’s symbol 
on the back or in the upper left in the case of the Commander 
cards (depicted in the “House Symbols” sidebar above).
Following the battle plan, players unfold the map board and place 
it in the center of the table with the side indicated by the battle 
plan faceup (there is only one map board in the core game, but the 
maps on each side are different).
This map board serves as the battlefield. Players then place any 
additional map overlays and/or special tokens required by the 
battle onto the battlefield. For more information on setting up the 
battlefield, please refer to the included Westeros Battle Plans.
Each player sits with his House’s board edge (as shown by the 
colored border and matching House symbol on the battlefield map 
in the battle plan) directly in front of him.
Each battle requires specific commanders. The battle plan shows 
which commanders each player takes and what hex each com-
mander (and his unit) starts in. 
After determining which of his commanders are used in the 
battle, each player takes the corresponding commander figures 
and Commander cards and places them in his play area (the area 
between himself and the battlefield). Return unused commander 
figures and Commander cards to the box.
It is important to note that some commanders have multiple 
Commander cards. Refer to the commander’s title below the 
commander’s name to make sure the card is taken. The battle plan 
notes which version must be used.
For example, Greatjon Umber has two different versions: “The 
Greatjon” and “Lord of Last Hearth.”
Commander cards should be placed uncommitted side up so that 
the full color portrait of the commander is faceup in the play area.
Each House has 10 Leadership cards with no commander’s picture 
in the lower right hand corner. These 10 cards are the House’s basic 
Leadership cards. Each player sets his House’s basic Leadership 
cards aside.
Each commander has five Leadership cards with his picture in the 
lower right corner. These five cards are the commander-specific 
cards for that commander. Each player takes all of the commander-
specific cards that match his commanders (who were taken in step 
3) and shuffles them thoroughly with the 10 basic Leadership cards 
for his House. He then places this deck facedown in his play area 
to form his House’s Leadership deck.

Commander- 
specific
Basic
Commander 
Picture
Tactic Box
Assembling the Morale Track
Lannister Segment
Stark Segment
Hub
Command Box
Lannister Non-rout 
Morale Segment Side
Lannister Rout 
Morale Segment Side
Building the 
Leadership Deck
1) Identify the House’s 10 Leadership cards without a commander’s 
picture in the lower right corner and separate them. These cards are a 
House’s basic Leadership cards.
2) Identify the Leadership cards for commanders who are used in the 
current battle. Shuffle those commanders’ cards thoroughly with the 
10 basic Leadership cards to form the House’s Leadership deck, and 
return all unused cards to the box.
For example, “Clash on the Kingsroad” does not use Robb Stark, 
Eddard Stark, or Greatjon Umber. Return the 15 cards with a picture 
of any of these commanders to the box when playing this battle. 
Leadership cards come in two varieties: basic and commander-
specific.
Command Box - A command box has a Command icon in the 
upper left corner of the text box.
Tactic Box - A tactic box does not have a Command icon in the 
upper left corner of the text box.
5. Place Round Track and Round Marker
Place the round track to one side of the battlefield with the 
round marker on the “1” space. The number on the battle 
plan next to the Round Limit icon (see icon to the left) 
shows how many rounds a battle lasts.
Players assemble the morale track and place it next to the battle-
field.
The morale track has three pieces. The morale hub goes in the 
center, with the two House morale segments projecting from it on 
opposite sides. To create the morale track, each player attaches his 
House’s morale segment to the hub to form a line (see “Clash on 
the Kingsroad” Component Setup diagram on page 6). The two 
segments and the hub, when connected, form the morale track. 
After the morale track has been placed next to the battlefield, each 
player’s House morale segment must be the one nearest to his 
board edge.
Make sure that the side of their morale segment that is faceup 
corresponds to the side indicated in the battle plan. The last space 
of each morale segment must match the space dictated in the battle 
plan.
In the core game, the only difference between the sides of a morale 
segment is that one side has an “11” space as its last space while the 
other side has a Rout space.
After forming the morale track, players place the morale marker on 
the morale starting space (the center space of the morale hub).
7. Create Token Stockpiles and Place Command Tokens
Players now sort the tokens for use during the game into piles. 
These tokens should be placed within easy reach of both players to 
form the stockpiles for the game.
The most commonly used tokens include order tokens, command 
tokens, and engagement tokens. Some battles also require other 
tokens, such as strategy tokens.
Each player takes a number of command tokens equal to the num-
ber beside the Command icon in the battle plan and places them 
on his command board.
8. Form and Place Units
Players now consult the battlefield map in the battle plan to see 
what starting units they will use for the battle and where those 

Anatomy of a Unit Banner
Unit Rank
House Symbol
Round Indicator
1) Identify the punchboard banners to be used in the current 
battle by looking at the battlefield map. Set these punchboard 
banners aside.
2) Take one banner pole for each punchboard banner. Then 
firmly press the punchboard banner into the banner pole’s ban-
ner holder. The banner holder should grip the punchboard ban-
ner by the punchboard banner’s round indicator.
Assembling Banners
Every battle features a variety of different unit combinations; 
therefore it is necessary to assemble a set of banners at the start 
of each battle. Each banner has two parts: the plastic banner 
pole and the punchboard banner. Players should execute the 
following steps to properly assemble their banners:
units will be deployed. Each unit is an individual fighting group 
that occupies a single hex. A unit consists of a certain number of 
figures (normally three or four depending on the figure’s bases).
A unit on the battlefield map is represented by a single silhouette 
of one of its figures (see the “Forming Units” sidebar on page 10). 
In the core game, figures come in one of three different classes: 
infantry, ranged, or cavalry. The banner color behind this figure on 
the map shows the rank of the unit that corresponds to the color 
of its banner (green, blue, or red).
Prior to placing any units on the board, players lay out the 
banners for the current battle. The punchboard banner must be 
securely inserted into a banner pole before placing a banner in its 
corresponding hex (see sidebar).
After all of the banners have been laid out, players form units for 
each hex containing a friendly banner as described under “Forming 
Units” on the next page.
After a unit has been formed, it is then placed in its corresponding 
hex as shown on the battlefield map. The banner in that hex is then 
placed in the banner hole of one of the figures. If a commander is 
in a unit, the banner must go into his base.
A unit with a commander shows the commander’s figure with a 
banner representing the rank of the unit. The battle plan shows a 
picture of what commander should be used. Different versions of 
the same commander are identified by their titles.
The owning player refers to the upper left corner of the 
Commander card’s uncommitted side (the full-color side) to see 
what kind of unit must be placed with this commander figure. 
Form the unit as normal except the commander figure takes the 
place of one of the normal figures (as the banner bearer). See the 
“Forming Units” sidebar on page 10 for more details.
9. Assign the Momentum Token
The battle plan specifies which House possesses the momentum 
token. That player places the momentum token in his play area.
Players are now ready to begin the battle!

Forming Units
1) Find the unit symbol on the battlefield map to determine what 
figures are used to make up the unit. If the symbol on the map is a 
commander, the player must instead look at the upper right of the 
corresponding Commander card.
2) Find the strength of the unit on the Unit Reference card. Take 
that many figures and place them in the designated hex. If this 
unit contains a commander, the commander figure takes the place 
of a normal figure.
3) Place the banner type indicated by the battlefield map into the 
banner hole in one figure’s base. If a commander is present in the 
unit, the banner must be inserted into the commander’s base.
Before executing the following steps, players must lay out the 
banners required by their House’s setup as described on page 9.
Playing the Game 
This section explains the structure of the game in detail. It explains 
how a game round is played, giving players a better understanding 
of the game flow. Afterwards, the “Instruments of War” section 
(starting on page 15) provides detailed rules concerning giving a 
unit orders and a unit’s options after being ordered.
Every BOW battle is played over a series of game rounds. The 
Round Limit icon in the battle plan indicates the actual number 
of rounds to be played. In the “Clash on the Kingsroad” battle, for 
example, the game is played over 5 rounds.
Each round is divided into four phases, always performed in the 
following order:
3. Command Phase
After a round’s Regroup Phase is completed, another round begins. 
This process continues until the last round of the game is finished, 
or until one player achieves one of the battle’s victory conditions.
The Rally Phase is executed simultaneously by both players 
and is used to determine which player acts first in each of the 
subsequent phases of this game round. It also allows players to 
refresh commanders (so commanders can once again be used to 
play Leadership cards) and rally units (so units can once again be 
ordered). The following Rally Phase actions are performed in order:
After both players have rallied their units, the Rally Phase is over 
and the Marshaling Phase begins.
Players determine who has the advantage by comparing the 
amount of command tokens currently on each player’s command 
board. The player who has the most tokens on his command board 
gains the advantage and acts first for the rest of the round. If there 
is a tie, the player who has the momentum token wins the tie. The 
player with the advantage is also referred to as the “first player.”
Each player then takes all command tokens from his Commander 
cards and places the tokens back onto his command board.
Each player rotates his units’ banners so the proper side is facing 
his edge of the game board. This makes all of his units active (able 
to be ordered) during the coming Command Phase. 

Unit Reference Card Breakdown
1) Unit Name
2) Trait(s)
3) Keyword(s) - The abilites a particular unit has
4) Figure Type - What type of figure makes up the unit
5) Unit Strength - How many figures make up a unit
6) Order Table - See page 15 for more details 
 
7) Attack Range - The number of hexes away the unit 
can attack from
8) Attack Type - The kind of attack the unit can make 
( 
for melee and 
 for ranged)
9) Valor Hit Restriction - This icon’s presence indicates 
all Valor results rolled by this unit are treated as misses
Players consult the round track to determine which side banners 
should be rotated to. The color of the round marker’s current space 
is the round color (white or black). A player should rotate his 
units’ banners so the round indicator matching the round color is 
facing his board edge. This rotation is known as “rallying” a unit. A 
unit’s banner that already matches the round color is not rotated.
An active unit is a unit whose banner matches the current round’s 
round color (the banner is on its active side). An inactive unit is 
a unit whose banner matches the next round’s color (the banner is 
on its inactive side).
Whether or not a unit is active is important since only active units 
can be given orders during the Command Phase. Consequently, 
inactive units are normally unable to move and/or attack.
During the Marshaling Phase, players obtain resources for the 
round. These resources take the form of order tokens and Leader-
ship cards. The following Marshaling Phase actions are executed in 
order by the first player: 
His opponent then executes both actions in the listed order. The 
player currently performing an action in any phase is referred to as 
the active player. After both players have taken both actions, the 
Marshaling Phase ends and the Command Phase begins.
In the above diagram, the current round color is black. This round color indicates 
banners should be rotated to their black side when units are rallied.
Rallying a Unit

Commander Card 
Breakdown
1. House Symbol
2. Command Limit
3. Capture Rating
4. Commander Figure
5. Unit Figure Type
6. Name, Title, and Traits
7. Unit Ability
8. Commit Ability
9. Commander’s Leadership Cards
10. Commander - Committed Side
The active player rolls a number of dice equal to the 
number beside the battle plan’s Order Rating icon. That 
player then takes order tokens from the supply that match 
the results of the dice rolled and adds them to any order token he 
carried over from the previous round. This combination of order 
tokens forms the active player’s Order Pool.
For example, Alex rolls three dice as the battle plan dictates. He gets 
two 
 and one results. He then takes three order tokens that match 
the dice results from the appropriate stockpile. He has no order token 
from the previous round, so these three tokens form his Order Pool.
The active player draws cards from his Leadership deck 
equal to the number beside the battle plan’s Leadership 
Rating icon. These cards are added to any card he carried 
over from the previous round. This combination of Leadership 
cards forms a player’s hand.
For example, Alex draws three cards from his Leadership deck. He has 
one card saved from the last round, so the four cards together form his 
hand for this round.
If a player needs to draw a Leadership card but there are no cards 
remaining in his deck, he shuffles his discard pile to form a new 
Leadership deck.
3. Command Phase
In the Command Phase, players use order tokens and Leadership 
cards to order their armies around the battlefield. After a unit is 
ordered, its owner rotates its banner to its inactive side (the side 
whose color matches the color of the next round). Ordering units 
is act of choosing which friendly units can move and attack on 
the battlefield in a given turn.
Starting with the first player, each player in turn selects one of 
the actions listed below and executes it. After a player performs 
an action, that player’s turn is complete and his opponent 
becomes the active player and selects an action. The possible 
actions are as follows:
This process of selecting and executing an action is repeated until 
both players pass. After both players pass, the Command Phase is 
over and the Regroup Phase begins.
Order tokens represent direct orders given to a single active unit. 
For the active player to select this option, he must have at least one 
token in his Order Pool. This token can be one of five different 
types: green shield, blue shield, red shield, valor (gauntlet), or 
morale (flag). The order a player can carry out depends on the 
token he decides to use. The following tokens allow the player to 
order the indicated units:
 
 – The active player can order a green rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a blue rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a red rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a unit of any rank.
 
 – The active player can increase his House’s morale by one or 
he can decrease his House’s morale by one to rally one of his 
units. In either case, no unit is ordered.
To issue an order to a unit, the player declares which token he 
intends to use and which active unit he intends to order. The 
player then discards the corresponding order token from his Order 
Pool and places it back into the supply. Turn a unit’s banner to its 
inactive side after being ordered (see “Ordering Units” on pg. 15).
It should be noted that using an order token is normally the only 
way that an uncontrolled unit can be ordered (see pg. 15).
Leadership cards allow a player’s commander to give orders to 
multiple units and execute tactics. These cards give the commander 
the ability to affect and/or order multiple units as indicated by the 
card’s command box. Some of the cards allow players to utilize 

Leadership Card Order 
Example
1) Play a Leadership card, making sure to declare which command-
er is using the card. Note that the commander chosen does not have 
to match the commander pictured on the card.
2) Choose which commands from the Leadership card to 
perform. For each Command symbol, place a command token from 
the command board onto the selected commander.
3) Declare units to be ordered, as specified by the Leadership card, 
that are in the commander’s ZOC.
special abilities before or after resolving the command text on the 
card as indicated by the card’s tactic box (if present).
To play a Leadership card, the active player reveals which card 
from his hand he intends to play. He then selects one of his 
commanders to play the Leadership card on. For each command 
on the card that a player resolves, he moves one command token 
from his command board to the chosen commander’s Commander 
card. The Leadership card is then discarded to the active player’s 
Leadership discard pile.
Whenever a player uses a Leadership card, he chooses a single 
commander. All units that are ordered by the card must be in the 
chosen commander’s zone of control at the time the card is played 
(see “Zone-of-control (ZOC) and Controlling Units” on page 16 
for more details). Therefore, if a card’s command reads “Order all 
units,” it only allows the active player to order all units under his 
chosen commander’s control.
It is also important to note that commands only affect friendly 
units unless specifically noted otherwise on the card.
If a player wishes to use the tactic from the tactic box on the 
card as well, he must first show that the requirements for using 
the tactic are fulfilled. He then resolves the tactic either before or 
after all commands are resolved, according to the tactic’s text (see 
example on page 17).
It is important to note that Leadership cards with a commander 
pictured in the lower right can be played by any commander 
(not just the one pictured).
A player can choose to pass instead of using an order token or 
Leadership card. Once a player passes, however, he can no longer 
use order tokens or Leadership cards until the next round. The 
passing player’s opponent can continue taking actions until he also 
chooses to pass. A player is forced to pass when he is unable to play 
an order token or Leadership card on his turn.
In the Regroup Phase, players perform the following upkeep 
actions in order. In general, both players can perform each action 
simultaneously, although if a timing issue arises, the first player 
must resolve his actions first.
After checking victory conditions, if the game has not ended, the 
Regroup Phase is completed in entirety. After it is completed, the 
game continues with a new round starting with a new Rally Phase.

In the example above, the small arrow (circled) indicates the morale 
break for green. During morale recovery, the Lannister player can 
move the morale marker from the “6” space in the green zone to the 
“4” space (the morale break). If the marker was already on the “4” 
space, it would remain on the “4” space.
Notes on 
Victory Conditions
Ties
Instant Victory
Games played to a certain number of victory points (VPs) 
can result in tie scores. Unless noted, the governing rule for 
resolving ties is that the player with higher morale wins. If 
morale is at the morale starting space, the player with the 
momentum token wins.
Many times, a battle can have instant victory conditions along 
with normal victory conditions. The most frequent of these 
is the Rout instant victory condition. If the morale marker 
reaches the Rout space on a player’s side of the morale track, 
he loses and his opponent wins.
Otherwise, battle-specific victory conditions are described 
in individual battle plans. Instant victory conditions always 
take precedence over normal victory conditions, and the Rout 
instant victory condition takes precedence over other instant 
victory conditions.
Status conditions are represented by tokens that certain cards and 
units can place onto the battlefield. The effects of these status 
conditions are resolved now. For more information, see “Status 
Conditions”on page 25 for more details.
Most battles have objectives that provide victory points every 
round, objectives that only provide victory points on the last round 
of the game, or some combination of the two. The battle plan 
specifies when victory points are awarded. If the battle is not in its 
last round, only the objectives that provide victory points every 
round are scored. If the battle is in its last round, both objectives 
that provide victory points every round and objectives that provide 
victory points at the end of the game are scored.
Players check to see whether it is the last round of the battle as 
dictated by the battle plan. If it is, the game ends and players 
consult the battle’s victory conditions to see who has won. 
If it is not the last round, the game continues.
Instant victory conditions are an exception to how normal victory 
conditions work as they are checked throughout the game. See 
“Notes on Victory Conditions” below.
Each player must discard Leadership cards and order tokens (of his 
choice) so that he has a maximum of one Leadership card in hand 
and one order token in his play area to carry over to the 
next round.
A player whose army’s morale has entered a colored area of the 
track may be able to recover some of the morale loss. If the morale 
marker is not on a morale break (a space with an arrow pointing 
to it on the morale track), that player can increase his morale by 
moving the marker to the closest morale break that matches the 
color of the area the marker is currently in. If the morale marker 
is on a morale break or on a grey bordered space, no morale can 
be recovered.
The round marker is advanced to the next space up the round 
track.

Order Table Explanation
1) RANK - To determine the orders available for a given unit, first 
identify the row with the unit’s rank. To do this, find the row that 
matches the banner belonging to the unit’s banner bearer.
2) ORDER OPTIONS - To determine what a given unit can do 
when ordered, consult the Order Options for the rank of the given 
unit. For example, the Order Table above is for Stark’s War Host of 
the North units. A green rank unit of this type can move two hexes 
and attack while a red rank unit can only move one hex and attack.
3) ATTACK DICE - To determine how many dice a given unit rolls, 
consult the Attack Dice for the given unit. For example, a green 
rank unit using this table rolls two dice while a red rank unit rolls 
four dice. If a 
 is present in this table, the unit does not hit on 
 results.
Instruments of War
The following section goes into more detail about how players 
utilize their units and commanders on the battlefield.
Unit Composition and 
Strength
Units are the backbone of a player’s army. A single unit is made up 
of multiple figures in the same hex whose total number of figures 
is called its strength. The starting strength of infantry and ranged 
units in the core game is 4, while the starting strength of cavalry 
and Stark Kennelmaster units is 3. A strength 4 unit is therefore 
composed of four identical figures, while a strength 3 unit is com-
posed of three identical figures. One figure of each unit, called a 
banner bearer, holds the unit’s banner in that figure’s base.
If a commander is present in a unit, the owning player forms the 
unit normally except the commander figure takes the place of one 
of the normal figures. The commander figure is also required to be 
the banner bearer for the unit.
The strength of a unit fluctuates as the unit takes hits. Hits usually 
happen when a unit is attacked, and they decrease a unit’s strength. 
When a unit takes hits, the owning player removes one figure for 
each hit taken. A unit’s banner bearer is always removed last. If 
a commander is the only remaining figure of a unit, he may be 
captured (see “Capturing Commanders” on page 22).
Ordering Units
Units move and attack by being given orders. An order token is 
used to order a single unit, while a Leadership card can potentially 
order several units. Whenever a unit is ordered, all figures compris-
ing the unit are ordered; that is, they must move and attack as a 
group.
A unit can only be ordered if it is active. For a unit to be active, the 
unit’s banner must be on the active side (the round indicator that 
matches the current round must be facing the unit’s owner).
Units can move and/or attack when ordered. If a player wishes 
to move any of his ordered units, he must execute all of their 
movement before any of his ordered units attack. However, an 
ordered unit is never forced to move or attack. A player can choose 
to have his unit do one or the other instead of both, if he wishes 
(see moving and attacking on pages 17–18).
After a player orders one of his units, he rotates its banner to the 
inactive side (the round indicator that matches the next round 
must be facing the unit’s owner). This unit is considered inactive 
and cannot be ordered again until the unit is rallied.
Morale order tokens and some Leadership cards allow players 
to rally units. Using those methods, units can potentially be 
ordered multiple times in a single round. Otherwise, every unit 
automatically rallies during the Rally Phase.
Unit Ranks
The rank (banner color – green, blue, or red) of a unit indicates the 
experience and/or equipment that particular unit has. The green 
rank represents lightly armored units or inexperienced units. The 
blue rank represents moderately equipped or experienced units. 
The red rank represents heavily armored units or veteran units. In 
this way, red is the “highest” rank, followed by blue, and then by 
green.
Because of their heavy armor, red rank units usually move much 
slower than their lower rank counterparts.
The rank of an ordered unit combined with the unit’s class 
(infantry, ranged, or cavalry) is used to determine what a unit’s 
available actions are when it is ordered (see table above).
Ordering Units with an Order 
Token
When issuing an order to a unit with an order token, the ordering 
player first declares which of his active units is to be ordered. After 
the player declares a unit, he must then discard a token from his 
Order Pool that matches the unit’s rank (banner color), or discard 
a valor (purple) order token. A player can also discard two tokens 
of the same type at once to order any unit.

Tactic Example
Zone-of-control (ZOC) 
and Controlling Units
When playing a Leadership card, the effects of the card can 
only be applied to controlled units. Controlled units are units 
within the chosen leader’s ZOC.
In the above example, Maege’s ZOC extends to all the hexes 
shaded blue. The only unit in Maege’s ZOC is the Stark 
War Host of the North unit. The infantry unit is therefore 
a controlled unit. All other units, including the ranged unit 
outside of the ZOC, are uncontrolled.
After discarding the proper order tokens, the owning player must 
decide whether the ordered unit will move and/or attack.
All movement must be completed by the ordered unit before 
the ordered unit attacks. After the order has been completed, the 
ordered unit’s owner rotates the unit’s banner to the inactive side 
(the round indicator that matches the next round must be facing 
the unit’s owner). See moving and attacking on pages 17–18.
Ordering Units with a Leadership 
Card
Ordering with a Leadership card is slightly different from ordering 
with an order token. While order tokens represent single orders, 
Leadership cards utilize commands that can relay several orders 
at once.
When choosing to play a Leadership card, a player first selects 
a commander figure to give the command(s) and optionally use 
the tactics on the Leadership card. It is irrelevant whether the 
commander’s banner is on the active side or not. A Leadership 
card can be played regardless of whether or not the commander’s 
unit is ordered by the card.
It is important to note that Leadership cards with a commander 
pictured in the lower right can be played by any commander 
(not just the one pictured).
Most Leadership cards have two sections. The first section is the 
Command box, and the second section is the Tactic box.
The effects of tactics and commands are limited to affecting units 
in a commander’s Zone-of-Control (ZOC) of the commander the 
card is played on. Units in a particular commander’s ZOC are said 
to be controlled by that commander. In the BOW core game, 
all commanders have a ZOC of two hexes. In other words, any 
unit within two hexes of a commander is under that commander’s 
control. It is possible for a unit to be under multiple commanders’ 
control at the same time.
Commands
Commands are simply a number of single orders that are executed 
at the same time and possibly additional abilities that modify 
orders for the current turn.
When ordering with a Leadership card, a player needs to make sure 
the units to be ordered have active banners and are all in the Zone-
of-control (ZOC) of the commander the card is played on.
The player follows the procedure below when ordering units with a 
Leadership card:
1. Declare which commander is being used to play the 
Leadership card.
2. Pay any Command cost(s).
3. Declare all units to be ordered.
4. Move all ordered units.
5. Attack with all ordered units.
Commands all have a number of Command icons next to them. 
To execute the command, a player must take a command token 
from his command board for each Command icon and place it 
on his chosen commander’s Commander card. A Commander 
card cannot hold more command tokens than its commander’s 
Command Limit (see breakdown on page 12). If a player wishes 
to execute multiple commands from a single card, he must pay all 
costs before executing the commands. However, he can execute 
the commands in any order that he wishes. Each command can be 
executed once per card.
Tactics
A tactic represents special optional orders and actions that can be 
taken by a commander (but do not have to be resolved in order 
to use the command). Each tactic is presented on the card in the 
following manner:

Lannister Decrease 
(Stark Increase)
Lannister Increase 
(Stark Decrease)
Morale Increase (Better) – Morale Decrease (Worse)
commands (Before Command) or after resolving all commands 
(After Command) on that particular Leadership card. Some tactics 
also allow the player to choose to resolve the tactic either before or 
after resolving the command section of the card.
For example, Alex controls House Stark and decides to play a 
Leadership card (SL16) this turn. The tactic states that “If enemy 
morale is green or worse, then one enemy unit of your choice cannot 
counterattack this turn.” Alex notes the morale marker is in the yellow 
section on the Lannister side of the morale track, thus fulfilling the 
requirement.
Alex also sees that the tactic must be resolved before any commands on 
the card are resolved. He declares he is using the tactic, selects an enemy 
unit as the target and resolves it, and continues by resolving 
any commands.
Commander Units
A unit with a commander in its hex as a banner bearer is a 
commander unit. The figure type of each commander unit is 
shown on the corresponding commander’s Commander card 
next to the commander’s name and title (see “Commander Card 
Breakdown” on page 12).
Commander “Unit Abilities”
Each commander unit has the abilities of a normal unit composed 
of the designated figures as well as special unit abilities detailed on 
the corresponding Commander card. These special unit abilities 
represent different abilities that can be used anytime during the 
battle as detailed in the Unit Ability text on the Commander card.
Commander “Commit Abilities”
Commit abilities are special effects that can normally be used only 
once during an entire battle. After use, the Commander card is 
flipped to the committed side (the side without the full-color 
portrait of the commander). This side has no Commit Ability text, 
showing the commit ability cannot be used again that battle.
Moving Units
For a player to move one of his units (unless that unit is being 
forced to retreat, see page 22), he must order that unit. When 
moving multiple units, a player must complete one unit’s 
movement before he can move another unit on his turn. A player 
must move all units he wishes to move before attacking with 
any unit. A unit that is ordered is not required to move. Unit 
movement must obey the following rules:
• A unit can only move into whole hexes. Half-hexes on the 
battlefield’s outer edge are considered to be off the battlefield. 
A unit can only move off the battlefield’s edges when explicitly 
allowed to do so by the battle plan.
• Only one unit can occupy a hex at a time. When a player moves 
a unit, the unit cannot move into or through a hex occupied by 
another unit.
To execute a tactic, the player follows these steps:
1. Check Requirements
2. Execute Tactic
1. Check Requirements
Tactics are always written as an if-then statement. The text in the 
“if” portion of the statement presents the requirements for using 
the tactic. The text in the “then” portion of the statement gives the 
effect of the tactic that is resolved if the requirements are met. 
In order to fulfill an Order Pool requirement, a player must have 
the corresponding order tokens in his Order Pool. Verifying 
that the correct tokens are in a player’s Order Pool is known as 
checking an order token. A single order token can only be checked 
once for a given Leadership card. Therefore, if an order token is 
checked for one tactic on a card, it cannot be checked again during 
the same turn.
For example, a tactic requires a player to have a morale order token 
and a valor order token in his Order Pool. When playing the card, the 
player checks to see if the required tokens are currently in his Order 
Pool. This is known as “checking.”
If a tactic requires two or more of the same type of order tokens to 
be checked, a player cannot check the same order token more than 
once.
In order to fulfill a tactic requirement that is dependent upon 
morale, the player must determine whether the morale marker is 
in the correct position on the morale track.
Morale requirements state that the marker must be “better” or 
“worse” than a specific area on the morale track.
For example, a requirement might say that the player’s morale 
needs to be green or better. This requirement means that the mo-
rale marker can be no closer to the player than the green area on 
his side of the morale track.
Alternatively, a requirement might say that the enemy’s morale 
needs to be green or worse. This requirement means that the 
morale marker must be in the enemy’s green area or closer to 
the enemy.
2. Execute Tactic
If all requirements listed for the tactic are fulfilled, the player 
can resolve the effects (the text in the “then” portion of the 
statement) of the tactic according to the timing text. The timing 
text states that a player must resolve the tactic before resolving any 

In the movement example above, the green rank War Host of the 
North can move into the forest hex (1) but must stop without 
moving its second hex of movement. It can move one or two hexes 
through the plains (2) and attack the Lannister unit. 
However, the War Host cannot move into a hex with another unit 
(3) or into a hex with impassable terrain (4).
Movement Example
• A unit’s figures cannot split up (move into different hexes).
• A unit cannot combine figures with another unit.
• Units can move different amounts of hexes depending on their 
class and rank (see “Ordering Units” on page 15).
• Units can move up to the amount listed on the Order Table.
• Some terrain impacts movement (see “Westeros” on page 25).
• If an ordered unit is not going to attack, the round indicator that 
matches the next round (the inactive side) must be facing the unit’s 
owner after the unit completes its movement.
• If an engaged unit (see “Engaged Units” on page 21) is going to 
move, the unit it is engaged with can interrupt the active player’s 
turn to attack the disengaging unit. See “Parting Blow” on page 22 
for more information.
Attacking the Enemy
After moving, each ordered unit can attack one at a time in any order 
the active player chooses. For each attacking unit, the active player 
completes the “Combat Sequence” below. After the combat, the 
active player rotates the unit’s banner to its inactive side. The active 
player then resolves other attacks in the same manner.
A unit does not have to attack when ordered, even if adjacent to an 
enemy unit.
The number of figures in a unit does not affect the number of dice it 
rolls when attacking or counterattacking.
Combat Sequence
To attack with an ordered unit, the owning player must have already 
completed the movement of all his units ordered during that turn. 
The player then performs the following steps for each of his units 
attacking this turn:
3. Verify Line of Sight (LOS) and Range
4. Place Engagement Token (if necessary)
After resolving one unit’s attack, the active player then selects another 
unit’s attack to be resolved. The active player completes this process 
for all of the ordered units that he chooses to attack with in any unit 
order he chooses. An ordered unit can only attack once per turn 
unless stated otherwise.
The active player declares which of his ordered units he is attacking 
with. This unit is known as the “attacker” during this combat.
The active player then declares an enemy unit to be the target of the 
attack. This unit is known as the “target” during this combat.
3. Verify Range and Line of Sight (LOS)
To determine whether a unit can be declared as the target of an 
attack, the active player must make sure the proposed target is within 
range and within line of sight of the attacker.
Range
To check a target’s range from the attacker, the players count the 
number of hexes from the attacking unit to the target (excluding 
the attacker’s hex but including the target’s hex). To be in range, the 
distance must be within the attacking unit’s Attack Range found on 
the Unit Reference card (see example on the right). 
A unit with a Ranged Attack icon has its Attack Range listed 
next to the Ranged Attack icon.
A unit with a Melee Attack icon can only attack enemies 
in adjacent hexes, so the unit has an Attack Range of 1 and 
therefore can only attack units in adjacent hexes.
When counting hexes, count all hexes that LOS is traced through 
except for the hex the attacking unit is in (see diagram on page 19). 
Therefore, a unit that is attacking an adjacent target is considered to 
be one hex away.

Range and Line of Sight (LOS) Examples
When LOS is drawn directly along one or more hex edges, 
shift the line slightly in either direction parallel to the 
original LOS line. If the new lines are both blocked (as 
above), then there is no LOS to the target unit.
However, if one or both of the new lines are not blocked (as 
above), then there is LOS to the target and the attacking unit 
can proceed with its attack.
Before proceeding with an attack, a unit must verify that its 
target is within range and within line of sight (LOS). In the 
examples above, the Northmen Archers unit is making an attack.
1. The Lannister infantry is within range (4 hexes) and LOS. 
2. The Lannister cavalry is within range (4 hexes) and LOS. 
3. Lannister infantry is out of range (5 hexes) and LOS to the 
Lannister infantry is blocked by the adjacent cavalry unit. 
4. Lannister infantry unit is within range (3 hexes) but LOS to 
the unit is blocked by the blocking terrain.
Attack 
Range
Line of Sight
Ranged attackers must have their targets within line of sight 
(LOS). To check LOS, an imaginary line is “drawn” between the 
center of the attacker’s hex to the center of the target’s hex. If this 
line crosses any part of a hex with an obstacle, LOS is blocked and 
the target cannot be attacked. Obstacles include terrain that blocks 
LOS, friendly units, and enemy units.
When LOS is drawn directly along one or more hex edges, shift 
the line slightly in either direction parallel to the original LOS 
line. If shifting the line in both directions causes LOS to be 
blocked, the target cannot be attacked. If after shifting the line 
in either direction, LOS can be established, then the attack can 
continue (see diagram on page 18). Units always have LOS to 
adjacent units.
4. Place Engagement Token
When an attacker using a melee attack targets an unengaged unit, 
the owner of the attacking unit places one his House’s engagement 
tokens on the hex border between the attacker’s and the target’s 
hex. If the attacker is engaged with the target already, the attacking 
player removes any other engagement token before placing his 
House’s engagement token.
If the attacker’s target is already engaged with a unit other than 
the attacker, the attack becomes a flank attack (see “Flanking an 
Engaged Target” on page 21 for more details).
A unit’s rank reflects its level of training coupled with the equip-
ment it is outfitted with. To determine the number of dice a unit 
rolls in combat, consult its Unit Reference card. Generally, units of 
roll the following numbers of dice based on their ranks: 
Green rank units roll two dice.
Blue rank units roll three dice.
Red rank units roll four dice.
In addition, the number of dice rolled can be adjusted by a variety 
of factors, including the terrain the target is in, the terrain the 
attacker is in, Leadership card text, a unit’s combat abilities, and 
the presence of tokens such as status condition tokens.
The attacking player determines all relevant modifiers based upon 
the unit used and card play and then adds or subtracts dice as 
necessary.
After modifiers have been applied, the final number is the attacker’s 
total number of attack dice.

Attack Resolution
After performing any 
movement with units, the 
active player can attack after 
checking to make sure the 
target is within LOS and 
within range of the attacking 
The attacker determines the 
number of attack dice used 
by the attacking unit.
After the dice have been 
rolled and the results 
determined, the target unit 
must take hits equal to the 
number of successes rolled by 
the attacker.
In the example, two successes 
were rolled. Therefore, the 
Lannister player takes two 
hits. For each hit taken, a 
figure from the target unit 
is removed.
The blue rank Stark unit in the upper right of the diagram is a 
War Host of the North unit. By looking at the Unit Reference 
card, the attacking player sees that this blue rank unit rolls three 
attack dice.
In the example, the Stark player rolls the results above. The Valor 
and the Green Shield results cause one hit each, while the Blue 
Shield result misses since it doesn’t match the target’s banner.
When rolling the attack dice, the attacking player looks for 
shields that match the target’s banner color as well as results, 
which count no matter what the target’s banner color is.
After the final die count is determined, the attacker rolls dice equal 
to this number. If a player must roll more dice than are available, 
he can track the results of the initial roll with order tokens from 
the supply and reroll dice until he has rolled the total number of 
dice his unit is entitled to.
To resolve an attack, the attacking player first calculates hits on 
the target unit based on the dice results rolled. If the unit is not 
eliminated, then the attacking player determines whether the target 
is forced to retreat. The steps a player follows are outlined below:
A. Causing Hits with Colored Shield Symbols
B. Causing Hits with Valor Symbols
C. Taking Hits
D. Causing Retreats with Morale Symbols
A. Causing Hits with Colored Shield 
Symbols
The attack causes the target one hit for each success rolled. 
Successes are defined as shield die results whose shield color 
matches the target’s rank. Shield results rolled of other colors are 
always misses.
B. Causing Hits with Valor Symbols
Valor results are successes (hits) unless the attacking unit’s Order 
Table (see Unit Reference card) has the “no Valor hit” icon (see 
“Valor Hit Restriction” on page 11).
There is an exception to this rule. Non-cavalry units that usually 
hit on Valor results cannot hit cavalry units with a Valor result. 
Therefore, in the core game, cavalry can only be hit by other 
cavalry on a Valor result.
For example, Alex attacks a blue rank Casterly Rock Cavaliers 
(cavalry) unit with a green rank War Host of the North unit. Alex 
rolls two dice, resulting in a Valor symbol and a Red Shield symbol. 
Normally this roll would cause a hit. However, the Cavaliers unit 
automatically ignores Valor results from non-cavalry units.
C. Taking Hits
After the number of successful hits is determined, the target unit 
suffers losses equal to the number of hits scored. The owner of the 
target unit removes one figure for each hit received. The banner 
figure is always removed last. When the banner figure is removed, 
the unit is eliminated and morale loss is taken (see page 23 for 
more details) Removed figures are set beside the board. The total 
number of hits taken is also referred to as damage.
Commander figures do not take damage as normal figures do. 
Instead, commanders must be captured. Please see “Capturing 
Commanders” on page 22 for more details.

Engaging and Flanking
When attacking a target unit, the 
attacking player first checks to see 
if the target unit has an engagement 
token in its hex.
In the example to the left, the target 
unit does not have an engagement 
token in its hex.
If there is already an engagement 
token in the target’s hex, an attack 
becomes a flank attack.
In the example to the left, the 
attacking player does not place 
an engagement token because the 
Lannister unit already has an 
engagement token in its hex.
If there is no engagement token, 
the attacking player places an 
engagement token with his House’s 
symbol on the hex edge between the 
attacking unit and the target.
In the example to the right, the Stark 
player places one of his engagement 
tokens before resolving the attack.
Engaged Units
A unit is engaged if an engagement token is present between its 
hex and an adjacent one. An engaged unit is subject to restrictions 
when moving or attacking. It is important to note that a unit can 
only ever have one engagement token in its hex.
Flanking an Engaged Target
If an unengaged melee attacker targets an engaged unit, he is 
considered to be flanking the target.
The flank attack allows the owner of the attacking unit, after 
rolling his battle dice, to choose a battle die symbol, if he wishes. 
He then rerolls all dice showing that symbol, ignoring the previous 
results on those dice and accepting the new results. The owner of 
the flanking unit does not have to reroll any dice if he does not 
wish to.
Moving with Engaged Units
An engaged unit cannot move unless it first disengages (see page 
22). To do this, the owner of the unit orders the unit, announces 
his intention to move the unit out of the hex, and returns the 
engagement token to the supply. The unit that is being disengaged 
D. Causing Retreats with Morale Results
If the target was not eliminated when taking hits, the attacker 
determines whether his attack causes the target unit to retreat. An 
attack causes the target unit to retreat one hex for each 
 result 
rolled (see “Retreating” on page 21 for more details).
After making an attack, the owning player rotates the attacking unit’s 
banner to the inactive side.
Counterattacking
Counterattacking is the ability of a defending unit to strike back at an 
attacking unit. A target unit that is able to counterattack (primarily 
as a result of the Stalwart keyword, see page 23) can counterattack 
after being attacked by any melee attacker as long as the target unit 
is not eliminated and remains in the same hex. A unit that is forced 
to retreat from its original hex cannot make a counterattack, and the 
original attack must be completely resolved before any counterattack 
can take place. The following rules apply to counterattacks:
The counterattack does not disengage the unit. 
The counterattacking unit does not suffer a Parting Blow (see page 
22) if it counterattacks an attacking unit while engaged to another 
A counterattacking unit cannot be counterattacked in return. 
The counterattacking unit cannot advance or pursue after a 
counterattack.
A counterattack is resolved just like a normal attack using the 
amount of attack dice shown on the Unit Reference Sheet for that 
unit type. 
Modifiers that take place “when attacking” cannot be used to 
modify the dice during a counterattack.
For example, Alex is the Stark player and James is the Lannister player. 
Alex’s War Host of the North unit is already engaged. James moves and 
attacks with his Casterly Rock Cavaliers in order to flank Alex’s unit. 
James is not able to eliminate or force the War Host of the North unit to 
retreat. 
Because the War Host of the North is stalwart, it can counterattack. Alex 
rolls the normal amount of attack dice. Even though his target is not the 
unit he is engaged with, the War Host of the North cannot disengage and 
cannot be hit by Parting Blow.
If the Casterly Rock Cavaliers are forced to retreat, the War Host of the 
North cannot advance since it is counterattacking.
Engaging the Enemy
A unit is engaged with an enemy unit when an engagement token 
is on the border between the two hexes the units occupy. This token 
is used to mark where melee attacks (except melee flank attacks) 
have occurred on the battlefield (see “Place Engagement Token” on 
page 19). This section covers how engagements occur, how they are 
broken, and what effect engagements have on units.

Retreating
Units that are forced to retreat must 
move one hex of their owner’s choice 
toward their House’s board edge for 
each 
 result rolled aginst them in 
combat.
The Lannister unit is forced to retreat 
after the Stark unit rolls a 
 result 
during an attack. The unit must 
retreat into one of the two green hexes 
toward the Lannister board edge.
A retreating unit cannot move 
through other units (friendly or 
enemy) when retreating. 
The retreating unit to the left cannot 
retreat into the red hex, so the unit is 
forced to retreat into the green hex.
A retreating unit cannot move 
through impassable terrain when 
retreating.
The retreating unit to the right cannot 
retreat since one hex is blocked by 
a unit and the other is blocked by a 
river. Because of this, the unit must 
take one hit for each hex it cannot 
retreat (one in this case).
from has the option to make a Parting Blow attack on the moving 
unit (see below). If the disengaging unit is not eliminated by the 
Parting Blow, it continues with its movement. Morale results 
obtained during a Parting Blow are ignored.
Attacking with Engaged Units
An engaged attacker can only attack the unit it is engaged with un-
less it disengages from that unit (see “Disengaging” below). 
If the engaged unit decides to attack the unit it is engaged 
with, the player replaces the engagement token with one that 
has his House’s symbol. If it already has his symbol, nothing 
further happens.
A ranged attacker cannot disengage except by moving. 
Although a ranged attack does not cause an engagement, a 
ranged attacker must still attack an opponent it is engaged with 
if it is going to attack (unless it disengages by moving away).
If an engaged melee attacker attacks a unit other than the one it 
is engaged with, the engagement breaks and the unit that is being 
disengaged from has the option to make a Parting Blow on the 
disengaging unit. If the disengaging unit is not eliminated after the 
Parting Blow resolves, it continues with its attack.
Disengaging
When choosing to break an engagement between units, the 
owner of the disengaging unit removes the engagement token, 
and then the unit suffers a Parting Blow as described below. If the 
engagement is broken in some other way (for example, by a card 
effect or by a retreat), the disengaging unit does not suffer 
a penalty.
It is important to note that an engaged unit normally can only 
disengage when moving or when attacking a unit that it is not 
engaged with.
Removing Engagements
If the target of an attack retreats or is eliminated, any engagement 
token is removed.
Parting Blow
A Parting Blow represents a unit’s ability to make a quick attack 
while an enemy attempts to disengage. This attack is performed 
before the disengaging unit can move or attack. The unit perform-
ing the Parting Blow rolls its normal number of attack dice and 
ignores any morale results. Hits are taken following normal attack 
rules. If the disengaging unit has not been eliminated, its owner 
can continue to order it normally. Units forced to retreat are not 
susceptible to a Parting Blow.
Retreating
Certain combat results, tactics, and unit abilities can force a unit 
to retreat a certain number of hexes. Retreats caused by card effects 
occur according to the card text. Combat retreats occur only after 
all hits have been taken. For each 
 result, the target of the attack 
must retreat one hex. The following rules govern retreating:
A unit must always retreat into one of the two adjacent hexes 
towards its owner’s board edge. A player’s side is indicated in 
the battle plan.
Other terrain effects are ignored when retreating unless 
otherwise specified. Impassable terrain cannot be retreated into.
A unit cannot retreat into a hex containing a friendly or enemy 
A unit cannot retreat off the board.
If a unit cannot retreat, the number of remaining hexes it 
would have retreated are turned into hits which are immedi-
ately applied.
If a unit can partially retreat, it retreats as much as possible and 
then takes hits as described above for the remaining hexes left 
to move.
Capturing Commanders
When the other figures of a commander’s unit has been eliminated, 
the commander is subject to capture. The Capture Rating (printed 
on the shield) on a commander’s card shows how many hits must 
be done in a single attack in order to capture the commander. The 
commander’s figure is then placed in the capturing player’s play 
area.

Commander 
Traits
Unit 
Keyword
For example, Jaime Lannister (Kingslayer) has a Capture Rating of 
3. This means that after his other three figures have been eliminated, 
the opposing player must still deal three hits in one attack to capture 
Jaime.
Certain cards allow units to take hits to perform special abilities.
It is important to note that a commander figure cannot take hits 
to trigger card effects. However, figures in a commander’s unit can 
take hits to trigger card effects as normal.
Morale Track
The morale track governs an army’s willingness to fight. The morale 
track is formed at the beginning of the game by connecting each 
House’s morale segment with the correct side faceup (specified in 
the battle plan) to the morale hub. During the game, the morale 
marker is moved to indicate increases and decreases in morale. 
A shift of the morale marker one space or more toward a player’s 
opponent is an increase in morale for the player. A shift of the 
morale marker one space or more towards the player is a decrease 
in morale. In other words, a shift towards a player is a decrease in 
his House’s morale; a shift away from a player is an increase in his 
House’s morale.
Note that since morale is tracked by a single marker, an increase in 
morale for one player is simultaneously a decrease in morale for his 
opponent.
During the game, a number of factors can affect morale and move 
it along the morale track. If the morale marker lands on a “Rout” 
space, that army immediately flees from the battlefield. This results 
in an immediate loss for the routed army.
If the morale marker cannot move any further on the track but no 
Rout space has been encountered, the marker stays in that position 
until it shifts in the other direction.
The following circumstances cause shifts in morale:
Eliminating a green rank enemy unit - Morale increases by one
Eliminating a blue rank enemy unit - Morale increases by two
Eliminating a red rank enemy unit - Morale increases by three
Spend a Morale order token to increase morale - Morale in-
creases by one
Spend a Morale order token to rally a unit - Morale decreases 
by one
Card effect - Variable
During the Regroup Phase, if the morale marker is present in a 
colored area on one House’s side of the morale track, the player 
controlling that House may be able to recover some of the morale 
loss. See the example of morale recovery on page 14.
Traits and Keywords
This section describes the traits and keywords found on Com-
mander cards and Unit Reference cards.
Traits
Units and commanders have one or more traits. Traits are qualities 
associated with a particular unit or commander such as a unit’s 
class (infantry, ranged, and cavalry). Traits are always in bold italic 
on the Unit Reference cards and Commander cards. Certain cards 
and abilities can be triggered or modified by units, commanders, 
or terrain with particular traits. Traits do nothing on their own but 
are used to determine the targets of some effects and abilities.
Keywords
Many abilities are too detailed to fit on the Unit Reference cards. 
A unit or commander with one of these abilities has an associated 
keyword or phrase tied to the ability to indicate that the unit or 
commander possesses that ability. The keyword acts as a kind of 
shorthand for the ability. The keywords introduced in the core 
game are explained below.
Advance
An attacking unit with this keyword has the option to move if 
the target of its attack is eliminated or is forced to retreat. If 
one of those two events occurs, the owner of the attacking 
unit can choose to have his attacking unit move into the 
hex formerly occupied by the target unit. A unit can only 
advance once per turn.
Cover X / Toughness X
Cover/Toughness are keywords that allow units to ignore X hits 
before any figures are removed from the target unit. Toughness is 
provided by units while Cover is provided by terrain.

A
B
C
For example, a unit in a hex with Cover 1 does not take the first hit 
every time one or more hits are rolled against it. Should that unit 
also have Toughness 1, it would ignore a total of two hits before any 
damage is taken.
Dogs of War
Certain units, like the Stark Kennelmaster, can use an animal 
attack. When ordered, a unit with this keyword can make a special 
ranged attack instead of moving (and attacking normally). It can 
be used from two to three hexes away from the target (and cannot 
be used against adjacent units). Before rolling battle dice for the 
attack, the owner of the attacking unit rolls one die and consults 
the following table to determine what rank of unit it attacks as.
On a Green Shield result, it attacks as a green rank unit.
On a Blue Shield result, it attacks as a blue rank unit.
On a Red Shield result, it attacks as a red rank unit.
On a Morale result, no attack is rolled but the target unit 
retreats one hex (this result cannot be ignored).
On a Valor result, no attack is rolled but the target automati-
cally takes a hit (this result cannot be ignored). 
For this particular ranged attack, friendly units do not block LOS. 
However, river hexes do block LOS for this particular attack. 
Other blocking terrain acts normally.
Heavy Armor
Some specially outfitted units are better at defending than their 
similarly ranked counterparts. A unit with this keyword defends as 
if it were a unit of one rank higher. For example, a green rank unit 
would defend as a blue rank unit.
If a red rank unit has the heavy armor keyword, it ignores Valor 
results. Morale results have their normal effects on units with heavy 
armor.
Off-balance
Certain weapons are harder to wield when the unit is on the move. 
A unit with this keyword must reduce its number of attack dice by 
one if it moves before it attacks in the same turn.
Pursue X
Pursue is an attacking unit’s ability to take ground and use 
momentum to retain an offensive position. An attacking unit has 
the option to pursue if the target of its attack is eliminated or is 
forced to retreat. If one of those two events occurs, the attacking 
unit can move up to X hexes (when moving, the first hex moved 
into must be the one formerly occupied by the target unit) and 
attack again. This new attack can be against the same unit or a 
different one. A unit can only pursue once per turn. In order to 
execute the additional attack, the unit must have moved at least 
one hex. A pursuing unit can pursue without attacking.
Scorch the Earth
The employment of barbaric reavers to burn the countryside is 
commonplace for some of the noble Houses. When ordered, in-
stead of attacking, a unit with this keyword can attempt to place a 
fire token in an unoccupied adjacent hex (as long as the terrain has 
a Burn Limit). To do so, the unit targets the hex and rolls attack 
dice normally. For each Green Shield result rolled, a fire level is 
added.
A hex’s fire level is the total strength of a fire as represented by a 
single fire token. When adding a fire level, the player removes any 
existing fire token (if one is there) and places a new token whose 
number represents the sum of the fire levels.
For the effects of fire in a hex, see “Status Conditions” on the right.
For example, James (the Lannister player) orders Gregor Clegane’s 
(The Reaver) unit with the Scorch the Earth keyword to set fire to an 
adjacent forest hex. As a blue rank unit, Gregor’s unit rolls three dice 
when starting a fire.
The results of the roll are one Green Shield, one Blue Shield, and a 
Valor symbol. Gregor’s Commander card has a unit ability that al-
lows him to count Valor symbols as Green Shields when starting fires. 
Therefore, there are two successful rolls (the Green Shield and the Valor 
symbol).
James then takes a “2” level fire token and places it on the forest hex. If 
there had been a “1” level fire token already in the hex, James would ex-
change the “1” level token for a “3” level token. Since that would equal 
the forest terrain’s Burn Limit, a devastation token would be placed in 
the hex (as described under “Status Conditions” to the right).
Stalwart
Stalwart units can ignore the first Morale result (flag) rolled against 
them if they choose. 
Stalwart units can also counterattack if they choose (see page 21). 
Unlike other keywords, any unit can gain the Stalwart keyword 
under the right conditions. If a defending unit is adjacent to two 
friendly units, the defending unit automatically gains the stalwart 
keyword until that unit is no longer adjacent to two friendly units.
In the following example, Unit B is stalwart because it is adjacent to 
two friendly units. Unit A is not stalwart because it is only adjacent to 
one friendly unit. Unit C is stalwart since Maege Mormont (Lady of 
Bear Island) has the stalwart keyword on her Commander card.

Status Conditions
Status conditions cover all manner of effects that can be applied to 
units and terrain. The effects of status conditions are applied dur-
ing each round’s Regroup Phase. In the BOW core game, “Fire” is 
the only status condition.
Fire
Fire tokens are used to mark hexes where fires break out. Fire to-
kens have different values on them that signify the strength of the 
blaze the token represents. Each hex with a fire token in it resolves 
a burn status condition during each Regroup Phase. To resolve a 
burn status condition, players must do the following:
1. Apply effects to terrain.
Burnable terrain has a Burn Limit in the form of “Burn X” where 
X is the maximum value of the fire token allowed in the hex. If the 
hex is at that level, the player follows the effects under the Burn 
Limit for the appropriate terrain (see “Westeros” on page 25). 
Only some terrain is affected by fire.
2. Apply effects to units. 
During the Regroup Phase, a unit in a hex with a fire token must 
eliminate one figure for each level of fire. A commander figure 
eliminated in this way is considered captured
The following additional rules govern fire tokens:
Only fire levels equal to a hex’s Burn Limit can be in the hex.
Units cannot enter a hex with fire tokens.
2. Spread level four fires.
A level four fire spreads in the Status Step of the Regroup Phase. 
Draw a random direction token and consult the directional indica-
tor (as printed in the battle plan). Increase the level of the fire of 
the adjacent hex in the chosen direction by one. If it is at four, no 
additional token is placed. If there is no fire there currently, a level 
one fire token is placed.
Units cannot leave a hex with fire tokens. They are too busy 
fighting the fire (see below).
A unit can remove all fire tokens in its hex by being ordered 
and then spending its entire turn extinguishing the fire (the 
unit cannot move or attack). The player then removes any fire 
tokens present in the hex.
Terrain with a “Burn: None” Burn Limit cannot have fire to-
kens placed on them. These terrain types, such as stone bridges, 
burn poorly or not at all.
Any unit can attempt to remove all fire tokens in an adjacent 
hex instead of attacking a unit. That unit’s owner rolls one die. 
To successfully remove fire tokens, the die result must be a 
Green Shield for a hex with one fire level, a Blue Shield for two 
fire levels, a Red Shield for three levels, or a Valor symbol for 
four levels.
Westeros
The lands of Westeros are varied and their impact on a battle can 
be significant. This section goes over the different kinds of basic 
terrain that armies can expect to encounter.
Battlefield Terrain
Although the whole of Westeros has a far more varied topography, 
the battles in the BOW core game use 8 basic terrain hex types.
A detailed description of each terrain type follows, including 
terrain movement effects, whether the terrain blocks LOS, etc. This 
list covers both the terrain printed on the board and the overlay 
terrain pieces that are placed on top of the board at the beginning 
of the battle.
Each terrain description includes the following statistics:
Blocking Terrain: Whether or not the terrain blocks line of sight 
is detailed here (if Yes, then this hex blocks line of sight). 
Movement: Any effect on moving into a hex of this terrain type is 
detailed here.
Combat: Any effect on a combat involving a unit in this type of 
terrain feature is detailed here.
Burn: X. The Burn Limit indicates the maximum number of 
fire levels that can be placed in a hex. The effect the fire status 
condition has on the hex is detailed here.
Special Rules: Any unique rules that govern hexes with this terrain 
feature are detailed here.
Terrain Hexes
Terrain hexes are punchboard hexes used to represent different 
types of terrain and the effects they can have on units in a battle.
Plains
Burn: 4. No burn effect

Hills
Combat: Maximum of three combat dice 
rolled against a unit in a hills hex (before 
modifiers) unless attacker is in another hills 
hex
A Ranged unit in a hills hex does not have its LOS blocked by 
units
Forest
Movement: Unit must stop when entering
Combat: Maximum of two combat dice 
rolled against a unit in a forest hex (before 
modifiers)
Unit in a forest hex rolls a maximum of two combat dice (before 
modifiers)
Burn: 3. After three fire levels, the forest is destroyed. Place a 
devastation token on the forest
Special Rules: Forest hexes with devastation tokens are treated as 
plains hexes
River/Forest River
Blocking Terrain: No for river hex; yes 
for forest river hex
Building
Movement: Units must stop when entering
Combat: Units in buildings have Cover 1 
unless they are engaged in combat and the 
engagement token shows their House symbol
Ranged attackers in a building hex roll a maximum of two combat 
dice (before modifiers)
Burn: 4. After four fire levels, the building is destroyed. Place a 
devastation token on the building
Special Rules: Building hexes with devastation tokens are treated 
as plains hexes
Road/Forest Road
Blocking Terrain: No for road hex; yes 
for forest road hex
Movement: A unit that only uses road 
hexes for movement can move one 
additional hex (additional hex does not 
have to be road)
Burn: 4 for road hex; 3 for forest road hex (follow burn effects for 
normal forest hex)
Special Rules: Units can advance one extra hex (up to a total of 
two hexes) and units can pursue one extra hex (up to a total of 
three hexes) as long as all movement is on road hexes
Terrain Tokens
Terrain tokens are tokens used to show additional terrain features 
(usually man-made) that are present in various terrain hexes. 
Unless noted, a terrain token’s effects supersede that of the terrain 
hex it is in.
Wooden Bridge
Movement: Treat as a “road” hex
Burn: 3. After three fire levels, the wooden bridge is destroyed. 
Remove it from the board. All fire tokens are also removed from 
this hex
Special Rules: No advance or pursuit onto a wooden bridge hex
Stone Bridge
Movement: Treat as a “road” hex
Special Rules: No advance or pursuit onto a stone bridge hex
Palisade
Burn: 4. After four fire levels, the palisade is destroyed. Remove it 
from the board

ACTIVE - A unit whose banner’s round indicator matches the 
current round color (black or white) is considered “active.” 
Only active units can be ordered.
ADVANTAGE - A player’s ability to act first in a game round.
CAPTURE RATING- The number of hits that must be done 
to a lone commander in one attack to remove the commander 
from the board. Represented by the number in the shield on a 
Commander card.
CHECKING - The act of determining whether order tokens 
required by a tactic are in your Order Pool.
CLASS - A category (infantry, ranged, cavalry) a unit belongs 
to. A unit’s class is in the trait section of the Unit Reference 
cards.
COMMAND LIMIT - The maximum number of command 
tokens that can be placed on a Commander card. Represented 
by the number in the command token symbol on a Com-
mander card.
CONTROLLED - The state of a unit being in a friendly 
commander’s zone-of-control.
COVER - Provided by terrain hexes and features, cover allows 
a unit to ignore a designated number of hits.
ENGAGED - A unit with an engagement token on one of its 
hex borders.
FIGURE - Any single sculpt.
FLANKING - A melee attack that targets an enemy unit that 
is engaged with another friendly unit.
INACTIVE - A unit whose banner’s round indicator matches 
the next round’s is considered “inactive.” Inactive units cannot 
be ordered.
MOMENTUM - Breaks a tie for advantage.
PLAY AREA - The space between a player’s board edge and the 
edge of the table.
RALLY - The act of making an inactive unit active once again. 
To do so, the owning player rotates the unit’s banner so that 
its round indicator matches the current round color.
RANK - A unit’s color as shown by its banner (green, blue, 
or red).
TOUGHNESS - A unit’s innate ability to ignore a designated 
number of hits from a single attack.
UNIT - A fighting group occupying a single hex that is made 
up of a certain number of figures.
ZONE-OF-CONTROL (ZOC) - The area within two hexes of a 
given commander.
Glossary of Terms
Tent
Burn: 1. After 1 or more fire levels, the tent is destroyed. Remove 
it from the board 
Special Rules: Varies with battle plan
Siege Tower
Burn: 1. After 1 or more fire levels, the siege tower is 
destroyed. Remove it from the board 
Special Rules: Varies with battle plan
Ford
Movement: Infantry must stop when entering 
Cavalry entering a ford hex reduce movement by one hex for the 
rest of their current movement
Combat: Counterattacks from a unit in a ford hex are at a maxi-
mum of two dice (before modifiers)
Fire
Movement: Units cannot enter
Units that have a fire token placed in their hex 
cannot move
Combat: Units in a fire hex cannot attack
Special Rules: See “Fire” on page 25
Devastation
Movement: Treat this hex as a plains hex
Combat: Treat this hex as a plains hex
Burn: N/A. See special rules
Special Rules: The devastation token negates the effect of any ter-
rain hex it is placed on (treat as plains hex)

Value Rating
Skirmish Summary Card Breakdown
1) Skirmish Name
2) Momentum/Commander Setup
3) Placement Rules 
4) House Icons 
5) Unit Rating
6) Terrain Rating
7) Board Indicator
8) Victory Conditions
9) Round Limit 
10) Command Rating
11) Order Rating
12) Leadership Rating
13) Lannister Morale Icon
14) Stark Morale Icon
Skirmish (Optional Rule)
Besides the battles found in the Battle Plans, players can utilize 
the following rules to play a randomly generated battle called a 
skirmish. Instead of a battle plan, a skirmish uses cards to generate 
a House’s commanders, unit types, and number of units, as well as 
terrain to be placed.
Skirmish Setup
A skirmish is set up in a similar manner to a normal battle 
except that a Skirmish Summary card is used to determine how 
a particular skirmish is played. In the core game, there are two 
Skirmish Summary cards, which allow players to play the “Raid in 
the Riverlands” and “Westerlands Bounty” skirmishes.
There are two sides to a Skirmish Summary card. When setting 
up, players should refer to the side labeled “Placement” instead of 
referring to a battle plan.
The following steps are performed in order when setting up 
a skirmish.
1. Choose a Skirmish and Houses
Players must first choose a skirmish to play. Skirmishes are found 
on Skirmish Summary cards. Players can use one of the two 
Skirmish Summary cards included in the core set. Other skirmishes 
can be found in future expansion sets for BOW. After choosing 
a skirmish, players decide which House each player controls for 
the skirmish. 
 
Players can choose any House whose House icon is pictured on 
the Skirmish Summary card, although players cannot choose the 
same House.
The Skirmish Summary card has a Board Indicator. This shows 
how the board should be oriented between the players (landscape 
or portrait) and which side of the board should be used. Place the 
map board as shown by the Board Indicator to form the battlefield. 
The edge in front of the player is his House’s board edge.
Each player takes the deck of Skirmish Setup cards with his 
House’s symbol on the back. Some of the Skirmish cards have a 
commander’s portrait at the top of the card along with a Value 
Rating. Each player separates these cards from the rest of his deck.
Following the Skirmish Summary card, players now select 
commanders by choosing Skirmish Setup cards with their pictures 
as directed by the Skirmish Summary card. These Skirmish Setup 
cards are returned to the box after use.

In the example above, the unit sections of the two cards drawn produce 
a total of 29 figures. This total does not include the figures for the 
chosen commanders’ units.
+
x4
x3
x16
x6
In the example above, the terrain sections of the two cards drawn 
produce a total of eight terrain overlays. It does not matter if the 
building art matches the pictured hex exactly.
+
x3
x4
x1
For example, the “Raid in the Riverlands” Skirmish Summary 
card states that each player chooses up to two commanders with 
a maximum total Value Rating of four or less. The cards specify 
which version of the selected commanders to use. This selection 
should be done secretly and simultaneously by both players with 
both players revealing their chosen commanders at the same time.
Each player places the Commander cards for his selected 
commanders in his play area along with the figures for those 
commanders’ unit. Build the commander’s unit according to 
normal setup rules (see “Forming Units” on page 10 for 
more details). 
5. Place Round Track and Round Markers
7. Create Token Stockpiles and Place Command Tokens
8. Assign the Momentum Token
The Skirmish Summary card specifies which side possesses the 
momentum token for the duration of the game. That player places 
the momentum token in his play area.
For example, the “Raid in the Riverlands” card states that 
momentum is determined randomly.
9. Assemble Units
Each player shuffles his remaining Skirmish Setup cards together 
and draws cards equal to the Skirmish Summary cards’s Unit 
Rating. Players now refer to the unit section in the middle of 
the drawn cards. Each card shows the number and type of units 
that each player now builds and places into his play area. These 
Skirmish cards are returned to the box after use.
10. Assemble Terrain Overlays
Each player shuffles his remaining Skirmish cards and draws cards 
equal to the Skirmish Summary’s Terrain Rating. Players then 
refer to the terrain section at the bottom of the drawn cards. Each 
card shows the number and type of hex overlays that each player 
now places into his play area. These Skirmish cards are returned 
to the box after use.
11. Place Terrain Overlays
places all of his terrain overlays according to the Skirmish 
Summary card’s “terrain placement” section. The “Raid in the 
Riverlands” card states that all terrain overlays must be placed on 
any hexes within 8 hexes of the owning player’s side of the board.
12. Place Commander Units
places all of his commanders according to the Skirmish Summary 
card’s “commander placement” section. The “Raid in the 
Riverlands” card states each commander must be placed on a hex 
within 3 hexes of the owning player’s side of the board and no 
commander’s ZOC can overlap with another commander’s ZOC 
during setup.
13. Place Non-commander Units
places all of his remaining units according to the Skirmish 
Summary card’s “unit placement” section. The “Raid in the 
Riverlands” card states that all remaining units must be placed on 
any hexes within 4 hexes of the owning player’s side of the board.
Players are now ready to begin the skirmish!
Skirmish Details
Details such as the Order Rating, the Command Rating, the 
Leadership Rating, and victory conditions are defined by the 
Skirmish Summary card used. After setting up, turn the Skirmish 
Summary card to the side labeled “Skirmish Details.” Leave this 
side faceup between both players so both players can refer to it 
during the game.

Index
A
advantage................................................. 10
Assembling Figures................................... 7
attack dice................................................ 20
attacker..................................................... 19
attacking............................................. 19–22
B
banners................................................. 9, 21
battlefield.................................................... 7
Board Indicator........................................ 28
Burn Limit.......................................... 24–25
C
card types
Commander cards.................................... 9
Leadership cards............................. 12, 16
Skirmish cards................................. 28–29
Skirmish Summary cards................ 28–29
Unit Reference cards....................... 11, 15
combat................................................ 19–22
Combat Sequence.................................. 19
commander
capturing................................................ 22
commander units................................... 17
refreshing............................................... 10
setup........................................................ 7
commands................................................ 16
commit abilities........................................ 17
component list............................................ 3
component overview.............................. 4–6
controlling units........................................ 16
counterattacking....................................... 21
D
diagrams and examples
Assembling Banners................................ 9
Attack Resolution.................................. 20
Building the Leadership Deck................ 8
“Clash on the Kingsroad” 
Component Setup........................... 6
Commander Card Breakdown.............. 12
Engaging and Flanking......................... 19
Forming Units........................................ 10
Leadership Card Order Example........... 13
Line of Sight (LOS) 
and Range Examples.................... 18
Notes on Victory Conditions................. 14
Order Table Explanation........................ 15
Retreating............................................... 22
Skirmish Summary 
 Card Breakdown.......................... 28
Unit Reference 
Card Breakdown............................ 11
Zone-of-control (ZOC) and 
 Controlling Units......................... 16
disengaging.............................................. 22
E
engagement tokens............................... 5, 20
engaging............................................. 19, 21
F
fire	........................................................... 24
flanking............................................... 19, 21
G
glossary.................................................... 27
H
hits	........................................................... 21
House Symbols.......................................... 7
K
keywords
advance.................................................. 23
cover...................................................... 23
dogs of war............................................ 23
heavy armor........................................... 23
off-balance............................................ 24
pursue..................................................... 24
scorch the earth..................................... 24
stalwart.................................................. 24
toughness............................................... 23
L
leadership decks......................................... 7
Leadership Rating.................................... 12
line of sight......................................... 18, 19
M
momentum........................................... 9, 10
morale
morale track.......................................... 8, 22
recovery................................................. 14
morale shifts............................................. 23
movement................................................ 17
O
Order Rating............................................. 11
order table................................................ 15
order tokens.............................................. 11
use	................................................... 12, 15
P
Parting Blow............................................. 22
passing..................................................... 13
R
range	.................................................. 18, 19
retreat	................................................. 21–22
round
Command Phase.................................... 12
Marshaling Phase................................... 11
Rally Phase............................................ 10
Regroup Phase...................................... 13
Round Indicator.......................................... 9
Round Limit............................................... 8
Rout space.................................................. 8
S
setup
example................................................... 6
procedure............................................. 6–9
skirmish
details..................................................... 29
rules	...................................................... 28
setup...................................................... 28
status conditions................................. 14, 24
successes................................................... 21
T
tactics	................................................. 16–17
target unit.................................................. 19
terrain
hexes...................................................... 25
tokens..................................................... 26
Terrain Rating.......................................... 29
traits	......................................................... 23
U
unit abilities.............................................. 17
Unit Rating............................................... 29
units
ordering................................................. 15
rallying.................................................. 10
ranks...................................................... 15
strength.................................................. 15
V
valor hits................................................... 21
Value Rating............................................. 28
victory conditions.................................... 14
Z
zone-of-control (ZOC)............................. 16

Credits
Game Design and Development: Robert A. Kouba
Inspired by the classic game created by Richard Borg
Editing: Mark O’Connor
Graphic Design: Andrew Navaro and WiL Springer
Cover Art: Tomasz Jedruzek
Map Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Additional interior art by the artists of A Game of Thrones: The 
Card Game
Figure Design: Aaron Panagos
Figure Photography: Jason Beaudoin and Keith Hurley
Playtesters: “Lurkers in the Valley” Playtest Group (Ed Browne, 
Meric England, Loren Overby, Lisa Poff, and Vernon Wester), Jaf-
fer Batica, Scott Clifton, JR Godwin, Eric Hanson, Kyle J. Hough, 
Erik Lind, Thaadd Powell, Dylan Vidas, James Voelker, Jason 
Walden, Peter Wocken, Touyee Yang, and Jamie Zephyr
Art Coordinator: Zoë Robinson
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
FFG Lead Designer: Corey Konieczka
FFG Lead Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
©2010 George R.R. Martin, ©2010 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., 
all rights reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without 
specific written permission. A Song of Ice and Fire ©2010, used under 
License. Battles of Westeros, BattleLore, the BattleLore logo, Fantasy Flight 
Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of 
Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 
West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and 
can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for 
your records. 
Visit Us on the Web:
www.FantasyFlightGames.com

Quick Reference
Round Summary
3. Command Phase (alternating player turns)
Playing A Leadership Card
1. Declare which commander is being used to play the 
Leadership card.
2. Pay any Command cost(s).
3. Declare all units to be ordered.
4. Move all ordered units.
5. Attack with all ordered units.
Combat Sequence
3. Verify Line of Sight (LOS) and Range
4. Place Engagement Token (if necessary)
Order Token Functions
 
 – The active player can order a green rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a blue rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a red rank unit.
 
 – The active player can order a unit of any rank.
 
 – The active player can increase his House’s morale by one or 
he can decrease his House’s morale by one to rally one of his 
units. In either case, no unit is ordered.
A player can also discard two tokens of the same type at once to 
order any unit (instead of playing a single order token).
Steps of Battle Setup
1. Choose a Battle and a House to Play
5. Place Round Track and Round Marker
7. Create Token Stockpiles and Place Command 
Tokens
8. Form and Place Units
9. Assign the Momentum Token
Keyword Summary
Advance (Pg. 23) – Attacking unit can move into an 
enemy’s hex after the enemy is eliminated 
or retreats
Cover X/Toughness X (pg. 23) – Unit can ignore X 
amount of hits 
Dogs of War (pg. 24) – Unit has a special ranged attack 
that it can use if it doesn’t move
Heavy Armor (pg. 24) – Unit defends as one rank 
higher. Red units ignore Valor results rolled against them
Off-balance (pg. 24) – If this unit moves and attacks in 
the same turn, it rolls one less attack die
Pursue X (pg. 24) – Attacking unit can move X spaces 
and attack again after eliminating a target unit or forcing 
a target unit to retreat
Scorch the Earth (pg. 24) – Unit can start fires instead 
of attacking
Stalwart (pg. 24) – Unit can ignore one morale result 
and counterattack after being attacked if it is not 
eliminated or forced to retreat