Creation and Development
Richard Borg
Development
Pat Kurivial, 
and the Days of Wonder Council
Illustrations
Julien Delval, Miguel Coimbra, 
Nicolas Fructus, Christophe Madura
Playtesting
Dave Arneson, George Carson, Rik Fontana, 
Roy Grider, Doug Hawes, Brett Helgeson, 
Chris Jones, Bill Massey, Paul Miller, Wayne Minton,
Stan Oien, Anthony Ricardi, Brad Ringhausen, 
Louis Rotundo, Ken Sommerfield, Rick Thomas, 
Dan Van Horn, and the Days of Wonder Council.
Visit: www.daysofwonder.com
Days of Wonder, Inc. 334 State Street, 
Suite 203 – Los Altos, CA 94022 – USA
Days of Wonder Europe 60 rue Saint-Lazare
– 75009 Paris – FRANCE
For online customer service, visit our forums
on: www.battlelore.com
This book is printed under the copyright laws of the United States
of America. Contents copyright © 2005-2006 Days of Wonder, Inc.
All rights reserved. This book is a work of fiction; any resemblance to
organizations, places, events, or actual people – living or dead – is purely
coincidental. Copies of material herein are intended solely for your
personal, noncommercial use, and only if you preserve any associated
copyrights, trademarks or other notices. You may not distribute copies
to others for a charge or other consideration without prior written
consent of the owner of the materials except for review purposes only.
The mention of or reference to any company or product in these pages
is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned.
Days of Wonder, the Days of Wonder logo, BattleLore, and all
related names, places and things are trademarks and copyrights 
© 2002-2006 Days of Wonder, Inc. 
First printing: September 2006. Printed in China.

- FOREWORD -
Your initial discovery of the seductive world of fantasy may still be etched in
your mind… 
She may have introduced herself through the exquisite details of Tolkien's
Middle Earth; an enthralling first night spent deep inside Master of Magic’s
computer masterpiece; the excitement and intense focus that you brought to the
development of your first role-playing character; or the fascination that struck you the
first time you saw incredible, hand-painted miniatures in the back of a hobby game
store. 
Or perhaps, going further back, you remember the wondrous stories that magically
emerged from the nooks and crannies of your bed covers as you made up your own
legendary tales while playing with the miniature knights of your childhood.
The pages that follow invite you to relive all of this and more, in a time and
format compatible with today’s life, namely – short playing sessions; a strong online
community; an easy-to-learn, yet deeply engaging game system; superlative artwork
and game components; and finely tuned game mechanics.
While you may find a few familiar gameplay elements, this Player's Guide is your
introduction to a comprehensive new game system that promises to enchant hobby
gamers worldwide for many years to come. Welcome to the age of BattleLore! 
Days of Wonder, Fall of 2006

Credits
p.1
Foreword 
p.2
How to use this book
p.4
Key Concepts & Object of the Game
p.5
Part I. The Basics 
p.7
Setting up the Game
p.8
Game Turn Overview
p.10
Chapter 1 – Command cards
p.11
Chapter 2 – Orders
p.13
Chapter 3 – Movement
p.15
Chapter 4 – Combat
p.19
Range & Line of Sight
p.20
Battle Dice Rolled
p.21
Terrain Effects
Battles & Morale Effects
Follow-on Actions
p.28
Chapter 5 – End of Turn
p.33
Part II. Advanced BattleLore
p.35
Chapter 6 – Mercenaries
p.37
Iron Dwarves
p.37
Goblinoids
p.38
Chapter 7 – Creatures
p.41
Critical Hits
p.42
Morale & Support
p.42
Retreat & Trampling
p.43
Special Powers & Power-ups
p.43
Creature Compendium
p.45
Chapter 8 – Lore
p.47
Lore Adventures
p.47
Lore Cards
p.48
Playing Lore Cards
p.51
Modified End of Turn
p.53
Managing & Replenishing Lore
p.54
Chapter 9 – The War Council
p.55
Commander
p.55
Lore Masters
War Council Set-up
p.57
Out-of-Character Play
p.57
Custom War Councils
p.58
Part III. The World of BattleLorep.59
Chapter 10 – Basic Terrain Types
p.61
Chapter 11 – Landmarks
Common Rules & Generic Effects
Lore Masters’ Landmarks
Commander’s Landmarks
p.68
Creatures’ Lairs
p.69
Appendices
p.71
Illustrated BattleLore Lexicon
p.71
Units Compendium
p.79
List of Sidebars
Section Cards and Tactic Cards
p.11
Anatomy of a Unit
p.13
Troop Types
p.16
Anatomy of a Weapon
p.22
Panic Loss Checks
p.39
Ordering Out-of-Section
p.41
Anatomy of a Creature
p.44
Anatomy of a Lore Card
p.48
List of Summary Tables
Battle Dice Rolls for Standard Troops
p.21
Hit Table
Morale Effects
p.28
# of Command Cards
Lore Masters Progression Levels
TABLE OF CONTENTS

T
his Player's Guide introduces you to the
BattleLore game system. It not only includes the
rules you will need to play the game, but also lays
the foundation for many forthcoming expansions. While
the size of the book may seem daunting at first, learn-
ing the basics of the game is a straightforward, enjoy-
able endeavor. If you follow the simple guidelines below,
you can be playing your first game the very same night
you open this book!
If you have never played this game system’s predeces-
sor, Days of Wonder's Memoir ’44, we recommend that
you first read the introductory sections of this book: Key
Concepts & Object of the Game; Setting Up the
Game; and Game Turn Overview. 
Once you have familiarized yourself
with these basics, use the opening
Medieval Adventure, Agincourt – 1415,
to introduce yourself to the fundamen-
tals of the game, progressively working
your way through the remaining chap-
ters of Part 1 as you discover the game’s
various game turn phases.
Once you have completed your
apprenticeship by exploring the
Agincourt adventure from both of the
opposing camps, you will be ready to delve deeper into
the fantasy aspects of our Uchronia, described in Part
II of this book – Advanced BattleLore. 
In Chapter 6 – Mercenaries, you will learn how to
deploy troops of a few now-long forgotten mythical races. 
From there, it will only be a short journey before
you’re ready to confront the monstrous Creatures intro-
duced in Chapter 7 – Creatures. 
In Chapter 8 – Lore, you'll discover, and begin to mas-
ter the power and magic of the Lore system that gives
the game its name. Finally, you will be ready to form
your own War Council and lead the charge, as explained
in Chapter 9 – The War Council.
If you are already familiar with the game’s concepts,
having played Memoir ’44 or similar card-driven
miniature game systems before, we invite you to jump
right in. Set up the game and play Adventures 1 through
10, starting with Agincourt - 1415. Please pay particular
heed to the various Summary Tables included in this
book, and to the sidebars. They introduce key concepts
specific to BattleLore. Along with the Summary cards,
they will go a long way toward helping you quickly grasp
the game’s essential mechanics.
You may also find the For Veteran Gamers section
of the BattleLore Primer a worthy read. It's available
online at www.battlelore.com/intro.
A note about multi-player games: This Player's Guide
introduces BattleLore primarily as a two-player (or two
teams) game, with each side leading one of the two
warring camps. While some components (cardholders,
and the reverse side of game board for Epic Adventures)
are designed to facilitate larger scale play, these additional
capabilities are beyond the scope of this book and the
core game. For additional details on multi-player 
play, please visit www.battlelore.com/epic and
www.battlelore.com/heroes.
HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
T
hroughout this rulebook,
each time a new concept is
introduced for the first time, it will
be highlighted in green text,
indicating its entry – and
description – in the BattleLore
Lexicon in Appendix I of this book. 
When further elaboration is
necessary, the concept will also 
be further explained in a side bar
inside the rules text itself,
and signaled by this icon.

B
attleLore is a new type of game, combining
various elements and aspects of cards, miniatures,
role-playing and board games. The concepts that
follow are fundamental to the game’s dynamic and its
underlying principles. 
A game session is built around a carefully crafted
Adventure which depicts a Battlefieldand the forces that
you and your game partners will attempt to lead to
victory. There are several types of adventures including:
Medieval Adventures, which are historical in nature; Lore
Adventures, which are fantasy-based, taking full advantage
of all that BattleLore’s world has to offer; and Epic
Adventures, which are beyond the scope of this current
book, and will be the subject of a future volume.
The forces on the battlefield are represented by plastic
miniatures, pre-positioned on the game board according
to an adventure’s specific instructions. These miniatures
represent the troops under your command. Each group
of Figures gathered on the same Hex is said to form a
Unit. 
Each unit is composed of a Banner Bearer, and, in
most cases, some additional figures. The Banner
Bearer is a key element in the game and offers visual
clues as to the nature of the Troops he leads into
combat. The Banner Bearer is also the last figure of
a unit to be removed from the Battlefield, when the
unit is finally defeated. 
In BattleLore, each Side, or warring faction, has its
own distinctive banner style: 
KEYCONCEPTS &OBJECT OFTHEGAME
Standard Banner
Pennant Banner

For more details on how to read a unit’s Banner, please
see the sidebar, Anatomy of a Unit on p.13 of Chapter
2 – Orders.
The game board, and the Terrain pieces and
Landmarks it supports, depict the battlefield on
which a game will be fought. Two red dotted lines
delineate the battlefield’s three distinct Sections,
respectively forming a Left Wing, Center, and Right
Wing for each Camp.
The game is fought over a number of successive
Game Turns, taken by the players alternately. During his
turn, the forces under a player’s control are ordered into
Movementand Battle with the play of a Command card
and its associated effects. The Command card usually
dictates the number of units ordered for the turn, as well
as the section(s) of the battlefield to which they belong.
Hexes that straddle a red dotted line are always
considered as simultaneously belonging to both the
corresponding wing and center section.
When combat occurs, its outcome is decided with the
roll of a varying number of Battle Dice; the sides of the
dice rolled dictate the effects of combat and the eventual
damage inflicted upon the enemy’s troops. 
OBJECT OF THE GAME
In BattleLore, the object of a game session is usually
to be the first to capture a specific number of Victory
Banners such as those held by the units’ Banner Bearers.
Depending on the adventure’s victory conditions, the
number of banners required to win will usually vary
between four and seven. 
A Victory Banner is gained each time the last
figure (Banner Bearer) of an enemy unit is eliminated
and removed from the battlefield.
The Banner Bearer of the unit just defeated is then
placed onto the victor’s Victory Track. 
In some adventures, additional Victory Banners - in
the form of Victory Blazon tokens - can be won by
capturing certain terrain hexes or accomplishing other
adventure-specific objectives.
A captured enemy
Banner Bearer, 
on his opponent’s
Victory Track.
A Victory Blazon
awaiting capture 
on the battlefield.
Red Banner
Bonus Strike
Retreat Flag
Right Wing

Part 1 of this book 
covers the game’s basics.
How to set up an adventure,
how to play a Medieval
Adventure if you’ve never
played one before, 
and the key Medieval
tactical aspects 
of the game.

For your first game, we recommend that you set up
and play Agincourt - 1415, an adventure expressly
designed to introduce you to the basics of Medieval
warfare. Focused solely on the historical confrontation
between the English and the French, two human Armies,
it will give you and your opponent a chance to master
the game’s basics.
The instructions that follow are common to the set-
up for all adventures. Following them each time you start
a game will greatly hasten your set-up time.
1.
Place the game board in the center of the table, with
the proper face (single board battle map, unless in
Epic mode) visible. This is your battlefield. Assemble
the Cardholders, and place them next to each player’s
edge of the board.
2.
Place Terrain hexes on the battlefield as indicated
per the adventure’s Battle Map. 
Because the hexes are double-sided, to minimize
conflicts (and frustrating searches for the right piece),
we recommend laying out the Terrain pieces in the
order in which they appear on the side bar of each
battle map. Start from the top and methodically work
your way down to the bottom of the list. 
Lay the 13 Wood hexes bordering Agincourt’s
battlefield. 
3.
Place other supplemental terrain and game pieces
(bridges, on-the-map Victory Blazons, special
resources and game tokens, specially denoted
Landmarks, etc…) on the battlefield, as indicated per the
adventure’s battle map and battle notes. 
There are no supplemental Terrain pieces in Agincourt.
4.
Now place figures on the battlefield, matching the
various units’ positions on the adventure’s battle
map. We recommend you initially set aside the required
type and number of Banner Bearers, and place them on
the battlefield first, using the board’s borders and wing
Setting Up
THE GAME

boundaries (red-dotted lines) to quickly locate the
correct hexes. Then complement each unit with its
required number of figures. (Foot Unit – 4 figures
total, Mounted Unit– 3 figures total, Creature– 1 figure
unless specified otherwise)
In Agincourt, the forces present are 5 units of Green
Banner Archers, 3 Blue Banner Regular Infantry and 1
Red Banner Heavy Infantry for the Pennant Bearers
(English and Welsh forces), and 6 units of Blue Banner
Regular Infantry, 1 Blue Banner Regular Cavalry, 2 Red
Banner Heavy Cavalry, and a single Green Banner
Archer unit for the Standard Bearers (the French).
5.
Hand each camp a complete set of the applicable
Summary cards: Units (Foot, Mounted,
Creatures); Weapons (Common Bow, Short Sword,
Long Sword, Crossbow); and Rules (Battle Dice,
Medieval Tactics, Morale) for all the forces present on
the board. Likewise, place the Summary cards of the
various Landmarks and Terrain pieces that are in play
on one of the board’s sides, within view of all players.
For Agincourt, each player receives a set of the
following Summary cards: Foot Units, Mounted Units,
Common Bow, Short Sword, Long Sword, Battle
Dice, Medieval Tactics, and Morale.
6.
Shuffle the Command card deck thoroughly,
and deal Command cards to each player as
indicated by the adventure’s battle notes. Place the
cards received in your respective cardholders.
In Agincourt, the English player receives 6 Command
cards, and the French player 4.
7.
Set the remainder of the deck of Command cards
face down, alongside the board, within easy reach
of the players. Read aloud any of the adventure’s special
rules or victory conditions. Hand out to each player a
set of 6 battle dice.
There are no special rules or victory conditions in
Agincourt.
8.
The first player, as indicated by the adventure’s
battle notes, starts the game. 
In Agincourt, the English player starts the game.
You are now ready to lead your troops to a hopefully
well-planned and decisive victory!

The player listed in the adventure’s battle notes starts
first. Players then alternate turns, until one of the players
reaches the number of Victory Banners indicated by the
adventure’s victory conditions.
Game Turn
OVERVIEW
ON YOUR TURN,
follow the sequence below
w COMMAND phase: Play a Command card.
w ORDER phase: Announce all units you intend to order, within 
the limits of the Section or Tactic Command card just played.
w MOVEMENT phase: Move all ordered units you wish, one at a time.
Respect unit and terrain movement limitations, as per the Terrain Summary cards.
w COMBAT phase: Battle one ordered unit at a time. Select an enemy unit and:
• Verify that your target is within range and line of sight;
• Announce the number of battle dice you are entitled to roll, per
your unit’s troop type and weapon type;
• Adjust your number of battle dice, based on any terrain effects;
• Roll the resulting number of battle dice, and apply their effect,
per the attacking unit’s weapon card, scoring hits first, then retreats;
• If appropriate, conduct follow-on actions (gaining ground, 
pursuit action, Bonus Melee attack and /or enemy battle back).
w DRAW phase: Draw a new Command card.
(In Lore Adventures, also draw new Lore cards and/or tokens.)

PHASE 1.
PLAY A COMMAND CARD
At the start of your turn, play a Command card
from your hand. Place it face up in front of you, and read
it aloud. 
Command cards are normally used to order units to
move and/or battle. The card you play dictates in which
section(s) of the battlefield you may issue orders, and
how many units you may order.
If you ever find yourself in a situation where no unit
can be ordered by the Command card just played,
disregard steps 2 through 4 of the Game turn
(described in the correspondingly numbered chapters),
directly draw a new Command card and end your turn
(see Chapter 5 - End of Turn). 
Conflicting Rules & Rules priorities 
and precedence:
In case of conflict between the Basic Rules in this
book and the text on a Command card, the text on the
Command card takes precedence. 
1111
COMMAND CARDS
There are two types of Command cards: 
The Section cards are recognizable by their iconic
representation of the battlefield on the lower half of the
card. They are used to order a set number of units from
the sections highlighted on the card. 
If the number of units to be ordered is not a fixed number,
but instead is marked as Equal to Command, then the
number of units a player may order is equal to the number
of Command cards in the player’s possession (including
the Command card currently being played). This is usually
the same number of Command cards that the player
started the game with, per the adventure’s battle notes.
The English player in
Agincourt may order up to 
6 Units on his Left Wing
when playing this card. 

The Tactic cards usually feature an illustration, and an
explicit description of the number and type of units that
can be ordered by the play of the card. 
When the location of these units is not specified, the
Tactic card can be used to order units from anywhere
across the battlefield. 
The units ordered must still operate under any other
criteria imposed on them by the play of the card.
Some Tactic cards are used to order units of the same
Troop type across the battlefield, i.e. units sharing the same
Banner color. 
The English player orders his remaining
Archer units across the board. Here one of
these Archer units cannot be ordered, because
it is already in contact with the enemy.
The French player orders two Regular Blue
Banners by playing a Blue Banner card; 
his Heavy Cavalry with a Red Banner must
stay put and cannot be ordered this turn.

PHASE 2.
ORDER YOUR UNITS
After playing a Command card, announce which
corresponding unit(s) you choose to order.
Only those units that are issued an order may move,
battle or take a special action, during this turn. 
Units on a hex with a red dotted line running through
it may be ordered from either section. 
You may only give one order to each unit during the
course of a single game turn. 
If a Command card allows you to issue more orders
in a given section of the battlefield than you currently
have units in that section, those additional orders are lost.
ORDERS
ANATOMY OF A UNIT
Figures grouped together on the same hex form a unit. 
A unit's most important member is its Banner Bearer,
who proudly carries the unit’s colors into combat. 
Each banner displays many characteristics, making it
easy for both sides to rapidly identify the most
distinctive capabilities of each unit in play.
The Banner type (Standard banner and Pennant banner
shapes, respectively) and Banner pattern (fleur-de-lys
and lion’s head) confirm which camp a unit is allied
with, something that becomes quite handy in the midst
of heavy Melee combat!
Pennant Bearer Archer
Standard Bearer Heavy Cavalry
This Infantry can be
ordered by the play
of any Left Wing or
Center Section card.

The color of a banner’s background field or Banner
undertone, reveals that unit’s Troop type – or level of
military training. Its Weapon Symbol indicates the
weapon this unit wields in combat. 
More details about each level of military training can
be found in the sidebar on Troop Types, on p.16 of
Chapter 3 – Movement, and more details on weapons
are in the Anatomy of a Weapon sidebar on p.22 of
Chapter 4 – Combat.
A Banner Bearer is always the unit’s last figure to remain
on the hex during combat. Its elimination marks the
defeat of the unit, and the gain of a corresponding Victory
Banner for the opponent.
Infantry Swordsman
Blue Banner Regular
Infantry Swordsman
Archer

PHASE 3.
MOVE YOUR UNITS
Movements are announced and made sequentially, one
ordered unit at a time, in the sequence of your choice.
A unit may only move once per turn. A unit that is
ordered does not have to move.
You must complete one unit’s movement before
beginning another. 
In addition, you must complete all units' movement
before proceeding to Battle (step 4 – Chapter 4).
Ordered units may move from one section of the
battlefield into another.
A unit may never move onto any of the dimmed half-
hexes that border the battlefield. A unit may only move
off the battlefield’s edges when explicitly allowed to by
the adventure’s battle notes.
Two units may not occupy the same hex. When
moving a unit, you may not move onto or through a hex
occupied by enemy or friendly units.
1515
MOVEMENT
Starting Position. 
This is forbidden.
First, move the right unit, 
1 hex to the right... 
To move the 
Swordsmen unit
to its destination
on the Forest’s
right, you must
first move the unit
in front of it out 
of the way. 
...then move the other unit.
The Blue Banner Cavalry must move 3 hexes, around the Archers,
to reach its destination. 

You may not split off individual figures from a unit;
they must stay together and always move as a group.
A unit that is reduced through casualties may not
combine with another unit.
Ordered units move differently according to their
troop type and status (foot or mounted).
FOOT UNITS - 
Movement and Combat restrictions
An ordered Green Banner unit on foot may move
up to 2 hexes and battle.
An ordered Blue Banner unit on foot may move
up to 1 hex and battle or 2 hexes and not battle.
An ordered Red Banner unit on foot may move
up to 1 hex and battle.
Splitting is forbidden.
Regrouping is forbidden.
TROOP TYPES
In BattleLore, there are three Troop types, roughly
corresponding to three distinct levels of military
training.
I Green Banner troops, identified
by the green undertone or
background field of their banners,
are used to denote young, untrained
recruits drawn from the masses. In
some Races, they are called
Irregulars. Their weapon is usually
little more than a simple sword,
common bow or a stick, and they
usually wear little to no body armor.
Their military training tends to be
meager or non-existent; on the
flipside, they usually benefit from
having good mobility.
I Blue Banner troops, identified by
the blue background field of their
banners, usually form the backbone
of a regular army. Trained to battle
in Melee and advance in military
formations, these are usually
professionally equipped men-at-
arms, or Regulars of an army, well
versed in military matters.
I Red Banner troops, identified by
the red background field of their
banners, form the Heavy shock
troops of an army. Often held in
reserve to deliver the decisive coup-
de-grace in battle, they possess the
best weapons, the top mounts and
the finest armor. On the flipside,
these assets greatly encumber them
and they display much less mobility
than other units.
A sturdy mercenary
and terrible foe: 
the Red Banner
Dwarven Swordsman.
A frequently seen
Swordsman.
A quick-footed 
and nimble Green
Banner Archer.
This Red Banner
Dwarven Infantry
moves to attack 
his opponent
in Melee.
This more cautious
Hobgoblin Archer
unit moves
into position 
to fire his bow. 

MOUNTED UNITS - 
Movement and Combat restrictions
A mounted Green Banner unit that is ordered may
move up to 4 hexes and battle.
A mounted Blue Banner unit that is ordered may
move up to 3 hexes and battle.
A mounted Red Banner unit that is ordered may
move up to 2 hexes and battle.
Some terrain features impact movement and may
prevent a unit from moving its full distance or battling
(see Terrain in Chapter 10 – Basic Terrain Types).
Retreat movement rules vary slightly from regular
movement (see section on Retreat on p.25 of Chapter
4 – Combat).
The Blue Banner
Swordsmen, unable 
to finish off a
straggling Cavalry 
unit, moves to
attack another
closer enemy.
This poor Dwarven
Infantry unit
suffers the brunt
of a multi-unit
Cavalry charge!

PHASE 4.
RESOLVE EACH BATTLE
Battles are resolved sequentially, one ordered unit at
a time in the sequence of your choice. You must
announce and resolve one unit’s battle (including all
related follow-on actions stemming from that battle)
entirely before proceeding to any other ordered unit’s
battle.
A unit may only be ordered to battle once per turn;
in some instances however, it may receive the opportunity
to battle again, as part of the same order, during a
successful Pursuit action. For additional details, refer to
Conducting Follow-on Actions, on p.28 of Chapter 4
– Combat.
A unit that is ordered does not have to battle, even
when adjacent to an Enemy unit.
A unit may not split its battle dice between several
enemy targets during the same dice roll.
The number of casualties (lost figures) a unit has
suffered does not affect the number of battle dice it
will roll in combat. A unit with a single remaining
figure fights just as bravely as a unit at full strength.
It is just more vulnerable, since a single hit will
suffice to eliminate it.
COMBAT PROCEDURE 
To battle: Announce the ordered unit you want to
attack with, and its target. Then, sequentially:
• Verify that your target is within Range and Line
of sight;
• Announce the number of battle dice you are
entitled to roll per your unit’s troop and weapon
type;
• Adjust your number of battle dice, based on
potential terrain effects;
• Roll the resulting number of battle dice, and
apply their effects, per the Attacking unit’s weapon
card, scoring hits first, then retreats;
•If appropriate, conduct follow-on actions (gaining
ground, pursuit action, bonus melee attack or
enemy battle back).
COMBAT

MELEE
A unit attacking an adjacent enemy unit is said to
be engaging that enemy in Melee. Targets engaged in
Melee are always considered within range of their
attacker, regardless of the attacker’s weapon. If the
attacker’s weapon is a missile weapon used at Point
Blank (i.e. to attack a unit on an Adjacent hex), the
attack is still considered a Melee.
RANGE
All other, more distant, attacks beyond the range
of adjacent hexes are considered to be Ranged
attacks. Ranged attacks are only available to units
equipped with Ranged weapons (missile weapons,
firing weapons, etc.). The range of a weapon is
measured in hexes. 
There are two basic ranged weapons in BattleLore:
The Common Bow, with a range of 4 hexes;
And the Crossbow, with a range of 3 hexes.
To check whether a target is within range, simply count
the distance, in number of hexes, separating the attacking
unit from its target. Exclude the attacking unit’s hex from
the count, but include the target’s hex. The distance must
be smaller or equal to the weapon’s stated range.
A unit adjacent to an enemy unit must engage this
enemy unit in Melee if it chooses to battle. It may not
target another, more distant, enemy unit, even if in range
and armed to do so.
LINE OF SIGHT
In Ranged combat, the attacking unit must also have
the enemy it wants to target within line of sight, i.e. it
must be able to “see” the enemy it wishes to battle.
To check for line of sight, imagine a line drawn from
the center of the hex containing the battling unit to the
center of the hex containing the enemy target. This line
of sight is considered blocked if any hex (or part of a
hex) intercepting this imaginary line segment contains
an obstruction. Obstructions include all units (friends
or foes), certain types of terrain features, and all shaded
half-hexes on the edges of the battlefield.
These Green Banner Archers must engage their adjacent enemy,
firing on them at point blank range, despite an obvious desire 
to finish off the more distant, lone enemy unit. 
Only one unit is within range.
This Blue Banner Swordsman
unit engages its opponent 
in Melee.
These Green Banner Archers
engage in Melee, firing at point
blank range on their enemy.
Checking for Range
& LINE OF SIGHT
Step 4a.

The terrain in the target hex does not block line of
sight.
When the imaginary line runs along the edge of one
or several hexes which contain obstructions, the line of
sight is not blocked, unless the obstructions stand
somewhere along both sides of the line segment.
In battle, the number of Battle Dice rolled by default
is determined by the type of troops the attacking unit
belongs to, hence by the color of its banner.
Some units that battle are subject to the combat
restrictions stemming from their movement prior to
battle, as described in Movement and Combat
restrictions on p.16-17 of Chapter 3 – Movement. If a
unit moves too far, it may not be able to battle this turn.
The weapon used by a unit is represented by a symbol
on the unit’s banner. This same symbol is on the
weapon’s Summary card, which contains additional
information about the weapon and its use and effects.
Line of sight is blocked by the center unit.
The Green Banner Archers have line of sight to the unit in the
woods' border, but not to the other unit hiding behind the woods.
Archers have line of sight.
Their line of sight is blocked 
on both sides.
Exhausted by their run, 
these Blue Banner Swordsmen
cannot battle this turn. 
Climbing onto these ramparts
forces these Red Banner
Swordsmen to postpone their
battle until next turn. 
Step 4b.
Determining the 
number of
BATTLE DICE ROLLED
BATTLE DICE ROLLS 
for Standard Troops
Green Banner troops roll 2 dice
Blue Banner troops roll 3 dice
Red Banner troops roll 4 dice

Anatomy of a Weapon -
WEAPON SUMMARY CARDS
BattleLore troops come equipped with a variety of
weapons. These weapons are represented on the figures
and on the Banner Bearers’ Standard or Pennant. 
Each weapon type has its own Weapon Symbol, drawn
on the inner portion of the Standard or Pennant, and
on the matching Weapon card.
The Weapon cards bear the following information:
• Weapon Symbol 
• Weapon Name
• Weapon Type (Melee and/or Ranged) and
Weapon reach (in hexes).
• Damage: The weapon’s standard damage,
expressed in number of battle dice rolled.
Usually, this will be dictated solely by the
banner color of the unit wearing the weapon, 
as per - Battle Dice rolls for Standard Troops .
• Bonus Strike: Describes potential bonus strike
conditions.
• Special: Any other special rules relevant to the
weapon’s use
For a complete overview of BattleLore’s most commonly
used weapons, please refer to the Bonus Strikes and
Weapon effects section in Step 4d. of this chapter.
A unit’s weapon may impact the number of dice it
rolls. For instance, Archers on the move fire at -1d, as
indicated on the Common Bow Summary card. 
A unit’s weapon may also impact the outcome of the
dice rolled. For instance, the Foot unit's short sword is
not quite as effective against mounted units as it is
against other units on Foot. As a result, one Sword on
Shield symbol rolled is ignored when a foot unit
equipped with a Short sword attacks a mounted enemy. 
Four common BattleLore weapons: The Common Bow, Crossbow, Short Sword and Long Sword.
Short Sword
Long Sword

The terrain in which the target - and in some instances,
the attacking unit – battles from, may impact (usually
reduce) the number of battle dice rolled in combat. 
To adjust the number of battle dice to roll for these
Terrain effects, please refer to Chapter 10 – Basic
Terrain Types and Chapter 11 - Landmarks, or consult
the relevant Terrain Summary cards.
Roll the resulting number of battle dice against the
target. Note that you cannot declare a battle, if you have
no target to fight against: You can’t just slash the air (in
the hope of collecting Lore tokens in Lore Adventures;
see Misses – Lore p.25). 
Hits are resolved first, followed by Retreats. 
HITS
In battle, the attacker scores one Hit
for each colored helmet rolled that
matches the banner color of the unit
targeted. Other colors rolled are always
a Miss. Throughout these rules, when we
refer to a banner color rolled, we mean
a Colored Helmet symbolwhose color
matches the target unit’s banner color.
Unless specified otherwise on the
attacking unit’s Weapon card, the Sword
on Shield symbol and the Lore symbol
are also misses.
For each hit scored, remove one figure from the
target unit. Always remove the unit’s Banner Bearer
last. When the Banner Bearer is finally removed, place
his figure on top of one of the empty wax seals, on the
Victory track on your side of the battle map.
When an attacking unit rolls more hits than the
number of figures in the defending unit, these additional
hits have no effect. 
BONUS STRIKES 
AND WEAPON EFFECTS
BONUS STRIKE
Provides a Bonus Strike, when specified on
the attacking unit’s Weapon card. Otherwise,
it is a miss. 
In some instances, additional weapon effects (ignoring
one Sword on Shield symbol rolled, reduced firing
effectiveness following a move, etc…) may apply,
modifying the resulting dice roll. 
BattleLore’s four basic weapons are:
The Short Sword
Used exclusively in Melee, the Short Sword
is the Infantry’s weapon of choice. A Short Sword hits
on all helmets rolled whose color matches the target’s
banner color, and on all Sword on Shield symbols
rolled against Infantry. However, because of its short
reach, this weapon puts units using it at a distinct
disadvantage against mounted opponents; Mounted
units ignore one Sword on Shield symbol rolled
against them by Short Sword carrying units.
Accounting for
TERRAIN EFFECTS
Step 4c.
Resolving
THE BATTLE
Step 4d.
HIT Table
Score 1 hit on Green Banner unit
Score 1 hit on Blue Banner unit
Score 1 hit on Red Banner unit
Bonus Strike - Score hit when specified
Green 
Blue 
Red 
Sword on
Shield
Flag

The Long Sword
Identical to the Short Sword in all but one
aspect (it hits opponents helmets rolled whose color
matches the target’s banner color, and on all Sword on
Shield symbols rolled, regardless of the enemy’s status
– foot or mounted). The Long Sword is the weapon of
choice for Mounted units, its longer reach making it
equally effective against all opponents.
The Common Bow
The weapon of choice for lightly protected
units, who prefer to engage the enemy from a relatively
safe distance, the Common Bow can be fired at point
blank and onto enemies up to four hexes away. The
Common bow hits exclusively on helmets rolled whose
color matches their target’s banner color. Taking aim
requires a steady arm: When fired by a unit that moved
during the same turn, 1 less die than normal is rolled
(i.e. a Green Archer unit on the move rolls 1d against
its enemy, instead of its standard 2d).
Under attack, this
Cavalry takes two
hits: One for the
Blue Banner color
rolled against it,
the other for the
second rolled
against it – 
It ignores one
Bonus Strike as
result of the Short
Sword’s limited
effectiveness
against Mounted
causing the removal
of 2 figures, one for
the Blue Banner
color rolled, the
other as a result 
of the rolled. 
The Archers roll 
2 dice when not
moving…
… and a single die
when on the move.
Cavalry rolls 
1 Blue Banner color,
1 Red and 1 Bonus
Strike…
The same attack,
directed at Blue
Banner infantry,
would have caused
3 casualties – 
one for the Blue
banner color rolled,
and one for each
of the two
symbols rolled! 

The Crossbow
Sturdier and heavier than the Common Bow,
the Crossbow benefits from increased penetration
capabilities: it not only hits its targets on all helmets
matching the target’s banner color, but also on Sword
on Shield symbols . However it suffers from a shorter
range (only up to three hexes), and its slower reload
speed means that all Sword on Shield symbols rolled
are ignored when fired at point blank range.
MISSES
LORE
In Medieval Adventures such as those
described in Part I of this book (e.g. Agincourt), any
Lore rolled is a miss.
In Lore Adventures that use the Lore system described
in Chapter 8 – Lore, the Lore side of the Battle die is
not an outright miss when rolled. Instead, the player who
rolls a Lore symbolin battle collects a Lore tokenfrom
the Lore pool to add to the reserve in his Lore goblet. 
In those same adventures, the Lore symbol may also
be used in situations involving Lore cards and the like.
In this case, Lore tokens are not collected into one’s Lore
goblet; instead, the Lore symbols rolled trigger the
specified Lore cards’ effect.
RETREATS
RETREAT
After all hits have been resolved and
casualties removed, Retreats are resolved. For each
Retreat Flag rolled against it, the target unit must move
one hex back toward its own side of the battlefield. Two
flags push the unit back two hexes, etc.
The player controlling the unit decides which hex his
unit retreats onto using the following rules:
• A unit must always retreat toward its Controlling
player’s side.
Its feet firmly
planted on the
ground, this
Dwarven Crossbow
unit rolls 2
symbols, picking
off 2 Cavalry
figures in the
distance…
a much better
result than if it had
foolishly rushed 
to contact, losing 
1d in the move, 
and making the
other dice a miss 
at point blank!
The defending
Archers lose 
1 figure and must
retreat. The Lore
symbol has no
effect,
The defending
Archers lose 
1 figure and 
must retreat. 
The attacker now
also gains a Lore
token.
Medieval
The Lore scores a
hit, causing the 3rd
casualty. No Lore
token is collected
by the attacker. 

• Terrain has no effect on retreat moves, therefore a
retreating unit may move through a wooded terrain
or fordable stream, for example, without stopping.
However, impassable terrain may not be moved
onto or through during a retreat move.
• A unit may not retreat onto, or through, a hex
already containing another unit (regardless if friend
or foe).
• If a unit cannot retreat because its retreat path is
blocked by another unit or impassable terrain, or it
is forced to retreat off the limits of the battlefield,
one figure must be removed from the unit for each
retreat hex of movement that cannot be completed.
Some situations allow a unit to ignore one or more
Retreat flags and defend themselves valiantly, while
other conditions make a unit Frightened and subject to
panic. A unit’s Morale level determines how a unit
reacts to Retreat flags rolled against it.
A unit’s morale ranges from Frightened(when the unit
is squeamish), to Normal (the morale of most units by
default) to Bold (when the unit feels particularly valiant
and determined to take a stand and fight back).
NORMAL
By default, all troops are considered to be at a Normal
level of morale. They are neither particularly Frightened
nor Bold; as a result, in battle, when forced to retreat,
they follow the standard Retreat rules described above,
retreating 1 hex toward their side for each flag rolled
against them.
BOLD 
A unit that has the capability to ignore a flag rolled
against it in battle is a Bold unit. It can more easily hold
its ground than is typical in combat. 
A Bold unit is never forced to ignore any flag rolled
against it. If the player controlling that unit judges it
preferable, he may opt to have the unit retreat through
the corresponding hex(es) if he chooses.
With another unit in the way, only one retreat path remains. 
MORALE
Ignoring Retreat Flags
This unit must 
lose 1 figure, 
and retreat 2 hexes, 
1 for each flag
rolled against it. 
Both retreat paths are now blocked, one by a friendly unit, the
other by impassable terrain. The unit must lose a figure instead. 
The unit has two possible retreat hexes.

All additional flags rolled during the same battle
dice roll, above and beyond those that can be ignored,
automatically trigger a retreat, and must be taken. 
Likewise, flags that may be ignored but are not,
cannot be saved from one dice roll to the next; i.e., it
is not possible to voluntarily take a flag now in the hope
of ignoring two flags on the next dice roll.
When forced to retreat, Bold units follow the standard
Retreat rules described above, retreating 1 hex toward
their side for each flag rolled against them above and
beyond those that may be ignored as a result of their
Bold status. 
In future game supplements, a unit might be given the
ability to ignore more than one flag in the same battle.
In this case, the number of flags it may ignore in battle
will be indicated in subscript, next to its Bold status. For
instance, a unit that may ignore two flags in battle will
be indicated as Bold2, and one that may ignore all
flags rolled against it, will have its morale marked as
Boldall. 
FRIGHTENED
A Frightened unit flees easily and further away than
normal. 
By default, Frightened units retreat two hexes for
each flag rolled against them, instead of the standard one
hex per flag of Normal units.
In future game supplements, if a Frightened unit has
to retreat a greater number of hexes per flag, the
exact number of hexes it must retreat on each flag
rolled against it will be indicated in subscript, next to
its Frightened status. 
The table on the following page describes the different
possible Morale levels of a unit during play, and the
impact of its morale on retreats and associated game
effects. Battle backs are explained in Follow-on actions
on p.28 of this chapter, and Check for Panic Losseson
p.39 of Chapter 6 – Mercenaries. 
The Swordsman 
unit could ignore
the flag because 
of the Rampart’s
protection, but
chooses to retreat
nonetheless
because the enemy
Cavalry hasn’t
battled it yet.
The Swordsmen can
ignore one flag,
thanks to the
Rampart’s
protection, 
but must retreat
because of the 
2nd flag rolled in
this battle.
Because of their
easily frightened
nature, the Goblins
must retreat 
4 hexes 
(2 for each flag
rolled against
them)

MORALE MODIFIERS
Certain conditions, such as the nature of the terrain
a unit is standing on, the unit’s racial characteristics or
combat prowess, temporary magical enchantments and
other Lore-driven conditions, etc. may temporarily or
permanently modify a unit’s morale.
Examples of Morale modifiers include:
Support – The most common way for a unit to
boost its morale is to receive support from adjacent,
friendly units. A unit adjacent to at least two friendly units
(see Support, on p.30 of this chapter) may always
ignore a flag. It is Bold for as long as it continues to
receive support;
The effects of certain Lore cards coming in play may
also affect a unit’s morale; 
Racial bonuses – Dwarven infantry may ignore a
flag. They are Bold by default – see Dwarves p.37 of
Chapter 6 – Mercenaries;
Certain Terrain types or
hexes modify the morale
of the unit on them –
Landmarks typically boost
their occupier’s morale,
allowing them to ignore a
flag for as long as they
occupy the Landmark. 
In some instances, a unit in Melee (i.e. engaged in hand-
to-hand combat or firing at point blank range) may be
entitled to take some Follow-on actions. These actions
are defined below, and considered to be part of the
same “battle sequence” as the battle that initiates them.
Unless explicitly specified otherwise, no follow-on
actions apply to units in Ranged combat, only to units
engaging their enemy in Melee.
GAINING GROUND
When a unit defending itself from a Melee attack
vacates the hex on which it stood (either because it was
eliminated or because it is forced out of the hex it was
defending), its adjacent attacker may Gain Ground
and move onto the just-vacated hex.
PURSUIT ACTION
If the successful melee attacker is a mounted unit, it
may gain ground and then move 1 additional hex beyond
the just-vacated one. Thisfollow-on movementis called
a Pursuit.
Even if the attacking unit simply moves into the just-
vacated enemy hex, or if it moves into that hex and then
returns to its original Melee position; it is still considered
to be in pursuit.
Effect
Unit may ignore a flag, and battle
back if opportunity arises.
When forced to retreat, unit retreats as
normal, 1 hex per flag rolled against it.
When forced to retreat, unit retreats as
normal, 1 hex per flag rolled against it.
When forced to retreat, unit must 
retreat 2 hexes for each flag rolled. 
Unit must also check for Panic Losses.
Bold
Normal
Frightened
MORALE Effects
Conducting Follow-on 
ACTIONS
Step 4e.
In both instances, the attacker may now gain ground.

Ranged attacks never give an attacker the
opportunity to gain ground or initiate a pursuit –
even if the attack was successful in pushing its target
back or eliminating it.
Gaining ground and pursuit actions are never
mandatory; they remain the attacking player’s choice. 
Pursuit actions are subject to normal terrain
movement restrictions.
A defending unit that is allowed, as a result of magic
or a special action (ambush, etc.), to battle before an
attacking unit, is not eligible to gain ground or make a
pursuit action.
BONUS MELEE ATTACK
A mounted unit that makes a pursuit action is entitled
to a Bonus Melee attack, against the same target or any
other target it is adjacent to following its pursuit move. 
This Bonus Melee attack is optional. The unit in
pursuit is never forced to attack again. 
Only units in pursuit are entitled to this bonus attack.
If the bonus attack is made, it must be a Melee, not
a Ranged attack. 
The target of the Bonus Melee attack does not have
to be the same as the original one, even if the original
target is still alive and adjacent.
Terrain combat restrictions apply to Bonus Melee
attacks the same as they do to normal attacks, unless
specified otherwise.
If a pursuit is not made, the attacker foregoes any
potential bonus Melee attack that may have resulted
from it.
An attacking unit in pursuit, that successfully
completes a Bonus Melee attack and eliminates or
pushes back its target, is eligible to gain ground but
All three moves are valid Pursuit moves, in prelude 
to a Bonus Attack.
Despite pushing
their target back,
these Archers
cannot Gain
Ground. 
The defending Cavalry’s
ambush succeeds in
pushing its attacker back,
depriving him from his
battle. However, the
Cavalry cannot press its 
advantage into a Pursuit 
and Bonus Attack.

cannot make another pursuit action. The attacking unit
is not eligible for a second Bonus Melee attack.
Movement ends after it gains ground.
A unit’s initial Melee battle, pursuit action and Bonus
Melee attack must all be completed before the next unit
may battle.
BATTLE BACK
In Melee combat, any defending unit that may ignore
a flag (i.e. any unit whose morale is Bold) at the time
of its attack is entitled to Battle back. It may fight back
as soon as the attacker's dice roll is completed and fully
resolved, assuming it survived the initial assault and did
not vacate the hex it was standing on.
SUPPORT
The most common way for a unit to gain the power
to ignore a flag and temporarily boost its morale is to
make sure it stays adjacent to at least two friendly units.
The unit is said to receive Support from its adjacent
units. Its morale is immediately boosted to Bold; the
unit gains the ability to ignore one flag rolled against
it; it may also battle back against its attacker in Melee
if it survives the initial attack and holds its ground. This
morale boost, and its benefits, remains as long as the
unit holds its ground and continues to receive support.
The Cavalry rolls 2 dice
attacking up the hill.
The Archers flee 2 hexes.
The Cavalry goes in Pursuit…
and scores a remarkable 
Bonus Attack!
Supported by friendly units, the defender Battles Back!
Being caught 
in the field with 
no Support is
dangerous!
Unsupported
Supported
Battle Back

Support is reciprocal, as illustrated below.
If the defending unit is forced off its hex, for any
reason, during the initial Melee attack, its opportunity
to battle back during this battle is lost, even if the unit
falls back into another supported position once its
retreat is completed. If it manages to stay in the same
hex however, it may battle back against its attacker, even
if the only reason it stayed in its initial hex was because
its retreat path was cut off. 
The target of a Ranged attack is never eligible to
Only units engaged in Melee may battle back.
A defending unit can be Bold for any number of
reasons: support from friendly adjacent troops; racial
benefit; magic; etc… (See Morale Modifiers p.28 of
Chapter 4 – Combat) It is only required that the unit
be Bold at the time of its battle back.
Battle backs are resolved in a similar manner to
regular battles, except that no further battle back is
possible during this battle back. The Active Player’sunit
that conducted the initial attack is now in a defending
posture, and cannot battle its opponent back. The
battle must stop immediately after the non-active player’s
Units battling back an attacker are never entitled to
gain ground, or make pursuit actions or Bonus Melee
attacks.
Strong Mutual
Support!
Unit is cornered
and forced to lose 
2 figures, but may
battle back!
Melees are often brutal affairs.
A long shot has its benefits.

PHASE 5.
END OF TURN - DRAW 
A NEW COMMAND CARD
After completing all movements and resolving all
hits, retreats and potential follow-on actions for all
ordered units, discard the Command card played and
draw another card from the deck. Your turn is now over.
If the draw deck runs out of cards, shuffle the discards
to form a new draw deck.
END GAME AND 
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Players alternate taking turns until one of the players
reaches the number of Victory Banners indicated by the
adventure’s victory conditions.
In addition to capturing banners through the
elimination of enemy units, players may accumulate
Victory Banners in a number of ways: capturing certain
terrain hexes, accomplishing adventure-specific objectives,
etc.
Such victory conditions will be explicitly spelled out
in the adventure’s battle notes.
A game always ends the very moment a player reaches
his required number of Victory Banners, regardless of
when this occurs during the game turn. This means that
a game might even end on a successful battle back, with
the victory of the active player’s opponent.
END OF TURN & END OF GAME

The chapters that follow 
are what set the world of BattleLore
apart from the Medieval Europe
of history books. 
While many things remain the
same, as you delve into the Lore
Adventures you cannot help but
notice some important differences:
Increasingly frequent sightings 
of mercenary bands of mythical
races on the battlefield; whispered
tales of monstrous creatures; 
and a growing influence of men 
of lore and great power. 
This arcane power often walks
the razor's edge between science 
and witchcraft... but it is the surest
sign yet that something very 
strange is afoot! 

BattleLore armies often recruit Mercenary troops to
fight at their side, luring them in with the promise of
riches and glory, a shared racial affinity, and even some
old-fashioned blackmail and forced labor.
Two Mercenary Commands, an Iron Dwarf Infantry
and a Goblinoid Horde, are included in the core game.
Additional mercenary commands and new races will be
introduced in future expansions.
Dwarven troops are renowned for their tenacity in the
face of adversity, as well as for their rather peculiar
form of dress!
SPECIAL POWER
Iron Morale
All Iron Dwarf foot units are Bold: They may ignore
one flag rolled against them in battle. As a result, even
when caught alone in an open field with no support, a
dwarf unit is highly likely to battle back, making it a
fearsome foe.
MERCENARIES
Crossbowman
Swordsman
Swordsman (Heavy) 
Even when caught
without support, 
in the open,
Dwarven Infantry
remains a
dangerous foe,
ready to battle
back.
Iron
DWARVES

If a dwarf unit is supported, it becomes even bolder;
thus a dwarf infantry in support may ignore 2 flags rolled
against it in any battle dice roll; it is effectively Bold2
for as long as it remains supported. 
Goblinoid troops increasingly roam the land, especially
in the Southern regions of the continent. Easily
recognizable by their tattered clothing and rag-tag
equipment, they’ve gained a (deserved?) reputation for
squeamishness when caught alone, and viciousness
when hunting in hordes.
SPECIAL POWERS
Goblin Rush
All Goblinoid foot units, including Blue and Red
Banner Goblinoid units, may rush up to two hexes
to engage an enemy unit in Melee. They must then
engage this enemy in battle, this same turn (unless the
enemy dies before then!).
If they do not wish to battle, these troops are subject
to the usual movement and combat restrictions of Blue
and Red Banner foot units. These units also remain
subject to the terrain movement and battle restrictions
of the ground they cover.
Goblin Run
As goblinoids are easily scared, all goblinoid units are
considered Frightened the moment they are forced to
retreat. As a result, they must retreat 2 hexes for each
flag rolled against them that they turn out to be unable
to ignore. They must also always check for Panic Losses
during their retreat move.
Hobgoblin Swordsman 
Hobgoblin Cavalry 
Dwarven Infantry can 
hold the walls like no
other, ignoring 3 flags
here – one as Dwarves,
one because of the
Ramparts’ protection, 
and the last one because
of their brethren’s
support.
A Hobgoblin Swordsman
unit rushes into battle.
GOBLINOIDS
Hobgoblin Archer
Goblin Skirmisher
Goblin Swordsman

PANIC LOSS CHECKS
A unit that is Frightened is subject to Panic Loss checks
when forced to retreat.
In a panic check, the attacking player rolls 1 battle die
for each hex of retreat ground covered by his enemy’s
retreating unit. 
Only hexes actually retreated over, not hexes of blocked
retreats, count toward the total number of battle dice
rolled in a panic loss check.
Any dice rolled that matches the retreating unit’s
banner color is a hit and kills a figure of that unit.
All other dice results (other helmet colors, Sword on
Shield symbol, Lore symbol, flag) are ignored during the
panic check.
Goblin Swordsmen
rush into battle
and massacring them as
they flee! 
But the Dwarves 
refuse to run
… and battle back
vigorously:
...routing their
attacker 
Panic check
dice roll
Thanks to the support it receives 
from its friendly neighbors, 
this Goblin unit ignores one flag.
But it is forced to take the next 2 flags,
and retreat a total of 4 hexes!

In BattleLore, monstrous Creatures are not just a
figment of the imagination of frightened peasants.
Fortunately, they are just as rare as they are dangerous. 
On the battlefield, a Creature is represented by a single
figure, and recognizable by its distinctive Banner shape.
This single figure is considered a unit, for gameplay
purposes, and blocks line of sight, but it is neither a foot
unit nor a mounted unit. Therefore, any Tactic
Command card that applies specifically to a foot or
mounted unit will not apply to a Creature. For example,
a Creature cannot participate in a Mounted Charge.
Like troop units, Creatures may not move onto or
through occupied hexes.
Unless specified otherwise on the Creature’s
Summary card, Creatures move and battle like similar
banner-colored foot troops, and use the same number
of battle dice in combat. Creatures are also subject to
the same terrain movement and combat restrictions.
CREATURES
A Creature’s banner 
Ordering a Creature 
“OUT-OF-SECTION”
Creatures are very special units. In addition to being
more resistant to attack in combat (see Critical Hit
below), they can be ordered at the will of their
master. When playing a Section card, if you wish to
issue an order to a Creature that is in a different
section(s) from the one(s) designated by your card,
you may do so by immediately paying 3 Lore tokens
out of your goblet. To learn more about Lore tokens
and how to collect or use them, please refer to p.54
of Chapter 8 – Lore.
The Creature thus ordered still counts as 1 unit
toward the total count of units ordered for the turn.
It is just ordered Out-of-section.
Spending 3 Lore, the player sends 
his Giant Spider on a patrol along 
with his Left Wing unit.

KILLING A CREATURE - 
CRITICAL HITS
Creatures are immune from the wear and tear of
normal combat. Instead, they are eliminated only when
they receive a Critical Hit. 
Each time an attacking unit scores a hit against a
creature by rolling one or more battle dice that match
its banner color (or Sword on Shield symbol, if
appropriate), set these dice aside. Now roll only those
set aside dice again. 
A Critical Hit is scored if, and only if, the banner color
of the Creature is rolled on this second roll of dice. All
other results on the second roll of dice (Flags, Lore, Sword
on Shield symbols, other helmet colors) are ignored.
If the Creature’s banner color does not come up on
this second roll of dice, the Creature survives the attack.
When a Creature receives a Critical Hit, it dies
immediately. Remove it from the battlefield and place
it on the Victory Track of its opponent. The victor also
collects one Lore token from the Lore pool as an award
for its brave kill.
MORALE AND SUPPORT
Creatures are not easily routed. They are Bold.
However, unlike other Bold units, they must always
ignore one flag rolled against them in battle. They
may never opt to retreat instead, even if a retreat
seems preferable. 
Creatures provide support to adjacent friendly units;
but they never receive support from adjacent friendly
Creatures do not benefit from a customary Morale
boost, when occupying a Landmark. Landmarks, and
their effect on the Morale, are fully described in
Chapter 11.
The Archers 
arrows bounce 
off the spider…
but the Cavalry’s heavy sword-blows finally kill it off!
The Creature 
does not flee,
...but battles 
back instead...
even in the face 
of a dangerous foe.
Critical Hit
Critical Hit

RETREAT & TRAMPLING
For each retreat flag a Creature must take, it must
retreat two hexes, unless explicitly indicated otherwise
on the Creature Summary card. 
If a Creature cannot retreat the required number of
hexes from flags rolled against it during battle (regardless
of the reason why its retreat path was cut off - impassable
terrain, interposing units in the way, edge of the board,
etc.), the Creature risks receiving a Critical Hit. The
attacker rolls 1 die for each hex of retreat movement the
Creature did not take. Much like for a Panic Loss
check. Each banner color match rolled is set aside and
re-rolled. Any Banner Color rolled that matches the
Creature’s Banner on the re-roll triggers a Critical Hit
and kills the Creature.
When two units (friend or foe) or a combination of
unit and obstacle block a Creature's retreat, each unit
situated in the Creature's theoretical retreat path and
adjacent to the Creature is Trampled, and loses 1 figure
for each hex the Creature cannot retreat!
SPECIAL POWERS 
& POWER-UPS
Most Creatures have one or more special powers or
unique attacks they can unleash in battle. 
A Creature’s Special Powers are described on its
Summary card, along with the requirements for invoking
these powers - a set number of Lore symbols that must
be rolled by the Creature during its battle(s) to trigger
the power.
As soon as a Creature meets the necessary Lore
requirement for a given special power, it may unleash that
power. This means that if a Creature is lucky enough
to roll two Lore in a battle, it may immediately unleash
the effect of her corresponding two Lore special power
(if any) on its hapless opponent. The decision to use the
The re-roll for a Critical Hit 
has no effect, since flags and
swords on shields do not count
on Critical Hit re-rolls.
The Giant Spider shrugs off
one flag rolled, but must 
take the second one, 
retreating two hexes.
The Green Banner
dice is re-rolled
for Critical Hits 
but misses!
The spider cannot complete
its retreat. 
Two dice are rolled… 
The Giant Spider ignores one flag, but not the second one. 
She tramples both units behind her, clearing a retreat path!

Lore rolled to unleash this special power (or any other,
lower-cost, special power whose Lore requirements are
met) is made immediately upon seeing the results of the
Battle dice roll in which Lore was rolled. Unleashing a
Creature’s special power is always optional, and at the
sole discretion of the Creature’s controlling player.
POWER-UPS 
Creatures can temporarily “store” Lore rolled to start
building up toward a special power with higher Lore
requirements. This operation is called a Power-up. When
a Creature rolls a Lore symbol in battle, instead of
using it immediately, its player can decide to set the
resulting Lore token aside. To show this, the Lore token
is positioned next to the Creature’s figure, indicating that
the Creature is powering-up a future effect.
Any such Lore token set aside can then be used on a
later turn, alone or in combination with other Lore just
rolled, to trigger one of the Creature’s special powers.
This way a Creature can slowly prepare itself to unleash
higher-level special powers later, rather than a lesser
power now, or hold the effect of a lesser power back until
a later (more effective) time. The risk, of course, is that
the Creature may be killed before it has a chance to
benefit from its power-up.
A power-up simply sets the Lore tokens coming
from a Creature's dice roll aside, next to the Creature’s
figure for later use. It does not diminish the number
of dice the Creature will roll in future battles (i.e. a
Green Creature that rolled a Lore symbol and set a
Lore token aside for later use will still roll 2 dice as
normal in all future battles). Any Lore tokens with the
Creature are returned to the Lore pool as soon as the
special power for which they were kept is triggered or
when the Creature is eliminated.
Two rules must be respected:
There can never be more Lore tokens set aside than
the number of tokens required to trigger the Creature’s
highest-level special power. For example, the Giant
Spider described further below can never have more than
2 Lore tokens set aside. If any additional Lore is rolled,
one of the Creature’s special powers must be triggered,
spending some of the Lore tokens set aside so far,
before setting any new Lore rolled aside; or the new Lore
rolled must be collected into the player’s goblet reserve
instead of being set aside next to the Creature. 
Only Lore tokens that are set aside next to a Creature
following the Creature’s dice roll can be used to fuel
the Creature’s power-ups or special powers. Lore tokens
collected into one’s Lore goblet during any other action
(see p.48 of Chapter 8 – Lore) in the normal course
of the game can never be used to power-up or trigger
a special power.
Anatomy of a Creature –
CREATURE SUMMARY CARD
Each Creature has its own individual Summary card, describing its characteristics
and special powers.
A Creature’s Summary card bears the following information:
• Creature Name and Illustration
• Creature Banner Color, reflected in the Creature’s Summary card background
color
• Movement
• Retreat - the number of hexes the Creature must retreat on each flag it takes
• Creature Weapon, if any
• Damage: The Creature’s standard damage, expressed in number of battle dice
rolled. Usually, this is dictated by the Creature’s Banner color, as per Table
- Battle Dice rolls for Standard Troops
• Bonus Strike: Indicates whether Sword on Shield symbols rolled score a hit
or not
• Special powers & unique abilities: The Creature’s special powers, ranked by increasing level of power
Creature

CREATURE 
COMPENDIUM
A Giant Spider is included in the core game and
detailed below. Other Creatures are available as
promotional items or will become available in future
expansions. For a complete, up-to-date Creature
Compendium, visit www.battlelore.com/creatures
GIANT SPIDER
• Banner: green
• Movement: 4 hexes 
• Retreat: 2 hexes / flag
• Weapon: Bite (natural)
• Damage: 2 battle dice
• Bonus Strike: Yes 
• Special Powers: 
Web
The unit is caught in a web. To indicate this,
place a Web token next to the spider’s target. Until freed,
the unit may not battle back, move or battle. All flags
rolled against it count as hits. A unit caught in a web
does not support adjacent friendly units until it frees itself
from its web.
To free it, its owner must order the
unit during his turn, and pay 1 Lore. The
unit just freed may then move or battle
this same turn.
Poison 
If the spider has two Lore tokens
and scores a hit, it has poisoned its target! Place a
Poison token next to the poisoned unit. For the rest of
the game, the unit is poisoned. In addition to normal
hits, it loses 1 figure each time a Lore symbol is rolled
against it.
Since the Giant Spider is a green
unit, and normally only rolls two dice
in battle, there are only two possible
ways for it to successfully poison its
enemy. It must either:
• receive the benefit of a Lore card that allows it to
roll more dice than normal (for instance, a Cleric’s
Bless), and be lucky enough to roll two Lore and score
a hit in the same dice roll;
• or use some Lore tokens that were obtained during
a previous roll, as part of a power-up.
The spider rolls a Lore. 
Its player chooses to use it 
to cast a web on the poor
Infantry, who thus cannot
choose to retreat and loses 
a figure. Caught in the web, 
the Infantry cannot even 
battle back!
Casting a web, 
the spider sets her
Lore dice aside.
On a later turn, 
the spider
simultaneously
rolls a 2nd Lore 
and scores a hit,
unleashing her
poison.
Web token
Poison token

Remember there are other creatures available either
as promotional items or as part of BattleLore expan-
sions. For a complete Creature Compendium and
for additional, detailed examples of how to use
Creatures and their power-ups, please visit 
www.battlelore.com/creatures.
On a later turn,
Infantry held in
reserve moves in 
for the kill!
Hill Giant
Earth Elemental
The Blue helmet and 2 Lore rolled remove 3 figures in total,
eliminating the unit!

AN INTRODUCTION 
TO LORE
Lore is the subject of many a conversation in the world
of BattleLore. To some - commoners, skeptics and
fools - it is nothing more than myth or legend; yet to
others - men of substance, strength and wisdom - it is
a source of power and intrigue. Lore is a doorway to
wondrous feats; the chance to change history; a beguiling
and dangerously seductive quest; an art and a craft -
balanced between science and the sacred. 
In terms of game play, Lore is the gateway to legendary
actions on (and off) the battlefield. Lore tokens act as
the currency that fuels the actions of the players’
legendary characters. Be they a man of deep faith, a
wizard of legend, a bold fighter or a sneaky rogue, all
rely on their Lore Powers to help win the day when
armies clash on the battlefield.
LORE ADVENTURES -
New Concepts 
and Modified Game Set-up
Introducing Lore in your games requires bringing
the following new game elements into play:
Lore Masters: For your very first game with Lore in
play, each player receives a budding Level 1 Wizard. This
wizard will act as an adviser, casting spells to help turn
the tide of battle in your favor. 
Adventure # 5 - Wizards & Lore is a good adventure
to dabble with Lore for the first time.
Place a War Council sheet with the Lore Master
side displaying a single Wizard face up, in front of each
player, and follow its set-up instructions, as detailed
below. Place a single Lore Master level token
representing your budding Wizard (he is Level 1, so a
single token will suffice) on the spot marked to that effect
on the War Council sheet.
Lore Deck: Take the Lore card deck, separate out the
Wizard cards, and shuffle them, as instructed on the Lore
Master’s side of your War Council sheet. 
LORE
Lore Deck
Lore Pool
War Council sheet 
Lore Master
level token 
Lore tokens
reserve

Put all remaining unused Lore cards away, in the
game box. They will be used later, in a slightly more
advanced version of the game where Lore Mastersteam
up to form a complete War Council (see Chapter 9 –
The War Council). 
Deal 4 cards from the now-shuffled common Wizard
deck to each player. Each player must choose 1 card,
which becomes his Wizard’s starting spell. Place the spell
on a newly assembled set of two interlocking
cardholders, to the right of the player’s Command
cards. From now on, this is where all spells the Wizard
knows will be stored. Like the Command cards, Lore
cards are kept secret until played.
Discard the Lore cards not selected back into the
common Wizard’s deck, and shuffle the deck once
more before placing it alongside the battlefield, within
easy reach of all. 
Lore Tokens: Lore tokens form the currency that
powers a player’s legendary actions. In the case of a
Wizard this means casting spells of course, by paying
their cost in Lore. Lore tokens are initially placed in a
common stack known as the Lore pool, alongside the
game board within easy access of all players. 
During the course of the game, the Lore a player earns
is stored in a Lore goblet. The number of Lore tokens
each goblet holds is public information throughout
the game, unless specified otherwise.
Place a goblet in front of each player, and place one
Lore token in it, representing the Wizard’s starting
spell casting power.
LORE CARDS
Lore is a Lore Master’s most precious asset. It quite
literally fuels the Lore Master’s powerful actions and
special powers. A Lore Master’s actions are usually
initiated by the play of a Lore card in his possession.
Lore token
Anatomy of a Lore Card
Every Lore Master’s spell, action, trick or item is the
object of its own individual Lore card. Each Lore card
bears the following information:
• Title: The name of the spell/action/item described
on the card, along with an illustration depicting it.
• Lore Master Class Symbol: A symbol depicting
the default character class(es) for which the action
is designed, an item crafted, etc. 
• Power Cost: The cost, in Lore tokens, a character
of the designated Lore Master Class must pay
from his goblet, to accomplish the action, use
the item, etc. If the cost is indicated with a “?”, it
means the card’s cost is variable, and described in
the card’s Effect section.
• Phase of Play: An icon and text in a yellow
typeface, that explains the instant or moment in
a game turn, when the Lore card must be played
and its effect announced. See Phases of Play below,
for a description of each possible Phase of Play.
• Target(s):An icon and text detailing the
target(s), subject(s), beneficiary(ies),
or area of effect, of the action.
• Reaction: A light colored background,
on the lower half of the card,
indicating whether the card can be
played in reaction to an opponent’s
action.
• Effect: A description of the action’s effect and the
special rules governing it, if any.
Cleric
Wizard
Rogue
Warrior
Orders
During Ranged
During Melee
Dice Roll
symbol
Reaction

ABBREVIATIONS AND 
COUNTING CONVENTIONS
The following naming and counting conventions are
used throughout the game to denote variable targets,
ranges and damages:
d designates a number of battle dice to be rolled;
hence 1d indicates 1 die, 2d indicates 2 dice, etc.
/ level signifies “per level” of the Lore Master
initiating an action; hence 2d / level indicates that 2
dice should be rolled for each level of the Lore Master
casting this spell or initiating this action, etc.
_ hex denotes a range in number of terrain hexes;
so a 2 hex / level firing range indicates a 4 hexes range
for a level 2 Wizard, etc.
_ unit designates a number of units to be ordered,
moved, etc.
In addition, the following conventions are used to
express quantities linked to a variable amount in the
game. The variable is usually a function of the level
of the Lore Master initiating the action, but not
necessarily.
1d/level: 1d/level signifies 1 die per level of the
acting Lore Master. 
1d/level +, 1d/level –: Denotes 1 dice per level,
plus or minus a set number of dice. So 2d/level +3
equals 5 (2*1 +3) dice at level 1, 7 at level 2 and 9 at
level 3, while 1d/level –1 would indicate 0 d at level
1, 1 at level 2, and 2 at level 3.
PHASES OF PLAY
A Lore card must usually be played during the phase
of play specified on its card, and only during that phase.
The phase of play is identified by its matching symbol,
set atop the card’s frame of text, and some common
keywords specifying the conditions under which, or
how, it is played during that phase;
COMMAND PHASE 
Play alongside your Command card:
Play this Lore card at the same time you
are playing your Command card, at the
start of your turn as the active player.
Play in lieu of your Command card:
The is replaced by a . Play this
Lore card instead of a Command card,
at the start of your turn as the active
player. For the rest of your game turn,
follow the instructions on the Lore card
you just played. You do not draw a new
Command card at the end of your turn. 
Play in reaction to your opponent’s
Command card: Play this card in
reaction to your opponent playing a
Command card at the start of his
game turn.
Reading a Lore card
Title
Lore Master
Class Symbol
Phase of Play
Effect
Power Cost
Reaction logo
A variable level 
Lore card

ORDERS PHASE
This phase of play is not used in the base deck, but
included for future use.
Play during Orders: Play this Lore card at the start
of your Orders phase, during your turn as the active
player. These Lore cards usually order additional units,
above and beyond those ordered by the Command
card just played. The unit(s) activated by the Lore card
must be ordered before any of the units ordered by the
Command card. Unless specified otherwise, the action
described on the Lore card must be carried out in its
entirety (including movements and battles), before
proceeding to the play of the regular Command card. 
Play in reaction to Orders: Play this Lore card in
reaction to your opponent’s Orders phase. 
MOVEMENT PHASE 
Play during Movement: Play this Lore
card at start of your movement phase,
during your turn as the active player. If
the card applies to multiple units about
to move, you must play it before any of
those units’ movement. Otherwise, it
will only apply to units that haven’t moved yet.
Play in reaction to your opponent’s
movement: Play this Lore card during
your opponent’s movement phase. Like
with Lore cards played during your own
movement phase, this reaction only
applies to opponents’ units that have
not moved yet, or are in the process of moving. If the
reaction applies to a single unit, it must be played
during your opponent’s physical move of that unit,
before he moves another unit. The practice of fair play
applies here, in that active players should not purposefully
rush their move to try and protect themselves from a
potential reaction of their opponent.
COMBAT PHASE
Play during battle: Play this Lore card during
one of your unit’s Battle phase. The battle can
be a Melee attack on an adjacent enemy unit,
or a Ranged attack against a more distant enemy. 
The effect of the Lore card applies for the unit’s entire
Battle, including any follow-on actions (gaining ground
and pursuit, bonus attack, etc.). Unless specified
otherwise (see Play Before Your Opponent's Dice
Roll, below), if the unit is a defending unit (for instance
if you play this card out of turn, during your opponent’s
game turn), the effect of this Lore card applies for all
of the battles this unit is engaged in this turn. 
Play during Melee: Same
play as Play during Battle
above, except that the Lore
card’s effect only applies to unit(s)
engaged in Melee combat.
Play 
during 
Ranged
combat: Same play as
Play during Battle above,
except that the Lore card’s effect
only applies to unit(s) engaged in
Ranged attacks.
Play before your opponent’s dice roll:
Play this Lore card immediately after an
attack is declared from one specific unit onto another,
but before the dice roll that must
ensue to resolve the attack, hence
before the results of the attack are
known. The effects of the Lore card,
if any, only apply to that single dice
roll, not to any other future dice roll,
This fearless unit
ignores the flags 
of all its opponents
this turn.

even those linked to the same battle (bonus attack,
re-rolls, etc.). 
Play after your opponent’s dice roll: Play
this Lore card immediately
after the dice roll following
a declared attack, but before any effect
of this dice roll has been applied. The
effects of the Lore card, if any, affect
the dice roll as indicated on the card,
and that dice roll only.
IDENTIFYING THE TARGET
The target(s) or beneficiary(ies) of a Lore card are
defined on the Lore card itself, next to the target’s
symbol. Common targets include:
You: Designates the player who is playing the card,
or any of his possessions (Command cards, Lore
reserve, etc.);
Your opponent: The opposing player;
Your units: The units you control, including
those not ordered this turn;
Your opponent units:Your opponent’s units;
x Unit(s): any x unit under your, or your
Opponent’s, control. 
Ordered unit(s): One (or more) units ordered
during the current game turn;
Defending unit(s): One (or more) units against
which an attack or battle has been declared (but not
necessarily played out yet) during this game turn.
Attacking unit(s): One (or more) units having
declared, or engaged in, battle.
Units in Melee: units battling an adjacent
enemy unit;
Units in Ranged combat:units battling an
enemy unit more than 1 hex away.
PLAYING A LORE CARD 
To play a Lore card, place it in front of you during
the appropriate phase of play (possibly in reaction to one
of your opponent’s actions), and read it aloud. Spend
the required number of Lore tokens out of your goblet’s
reserve, temporarily placing those tokens on the Lore
card; at the end of the game turn, drop these tokens into
the common Lore pool, and discard the Lore card
onto the discard pile next to the Lore deck.
Players must observe a number of simple but critically
important rules when bringing a Lore card into play. 
Lore cost rules: To play a Lore card, its Lore Master
must be able to immediately pay its corresponding
Power cost, out of the Lore tokens already in his
possession prior to the card’s effect coming into play.
Phase of play rules: A Lore card must always be
played during its indicated phase of play. Unless specified
otherwise, the card can be played at any time during its
indicated phase of play. 
Some Lore cards may be played out of your turn,
during your opponent’s game turn, or in reaction to one
of his action or Lore card play. These Lore cards are
known as Reaction Lore cards, and recognizable by their
light colored background under the card’s effect text. 
However:
• You may only play a maximum of one lore card
during your turn.
• You may only play a maximum of one lore card
during your opponent's game turn.
• As a result, during the course of any single game
turn, there can only be a maximum of two lore cards
coming into play, one from each player.
• Cards that are not explicitly marked as Reaction
cards can never be played out-of-turn, i.e. during a
game turn in which your opponent is the active player.
5151
+
An attacker is surprised by 
his enemy’s First Strike…
Thankfully, that effect is foiled 
by the player’s Rogue!

TARGETING RULES
Unless specified otherwise the target, or beneficiary,
of a Lore card is designated and chosen by the player
of the Lore card, and all the actions that ensue
(movement of units, etc.) are controlled by the affected
units’ controlling player.
RULES GOVERNING TEXT 
INTERPRETATION 
OF LORE CARDS’ EFFECTS
Unless explicitly specified otherwise on a card effect’s
text, the following rules apply to and govern all cards’
effects:
All basic rules, including terrain movement and
combat restrictions, remain in effect and still apply. 
When a Lore symbol is rolled, any card’s effect based
on the roll of Lore symbols always apply, unless explicitly
trumped by another card’s effect. 
Whenever some Lore rolled can be used up by a
card’s effect, it cannot also be collected into one’s Lore
goblet. For instance, when the Cry Havoc! card from the
example above is in play, all Lore rolled by the player is
used up to score potential hits on the enemy. It cannot
be diverted to augment one's Lore’s reserve instead.
Anytime an odd value is halved, the result must be
rounded-up before being used.
In case of conflict between the basic rules 
in this book and the text on a lore card, 
the lore card takes precedence.
In case of contradiction between the effects
of two lore cards played in succession, 
the second card trumps the effect of the
first one.
CONFLICTING RULES &
Rules Priorities and Precedence
The Wizard’s Mass Might is negated by his nemesis’ Blinding Light!
The Wizard’s player pays 4 Lore. His opponent sees his 
precious River Rage dispelled, but recuperates 4 Lore.
This unit chooses 
to sneak up on its
enemy by walking
around the Wooded
terrain…
This Mass Shield
deflects the
attacker’s physical
blows (banner
color and flag), 
but not the
magically enhanced
ones (2 Lore).
in order to fade quickly 
into the distance once 
its attack is made.
If the attack had been made
through the woods, the unit
would have been forced to stay
there once its attack was made. 

If a resource is depleted, the effect of the Lore card
applies up to the point of the resource running out, and
the remainder of the card’s effect is lost. 
Covering all potential special situations that may
arise from the play of Lore cards is beyond the scope
of this book. However, a database of Frequently Asked
Questions keyed to each Lore card is available on
www.BattleLore.com 
RULES GOVERNING 
OUT-OF-CHARACTER PLAY
Level-dependent Lore cards played out of character (see
Chapter 9 – The War Council) can only be played as
if they were cast at level 1, regardless of the actual levels
of any Lore Master on the player’s War Council. 
MODIFIED END OF TURN
IN LORE ADVENTURES
When playing a Lore Adventure, Step 5. Draw a
new Command card is modified as follows: 
After all units’ movements and battles have been
resolved and after drawing a new Command card, the
active player’s Lore is replenished. 
Lore tokens drawn from the Lore pool are placed into
one's Lore reserve goblet.
The player must announce which of these three
options he is choosing beforehand; he is not allowed
to draw the first Lore card to look at it before deciding
whether to draw a second one or taking a Lore token
instead.
A player can never store more Lore cards in his
cardholder than his highest LoreMaster level + 1 card.
So a level 1 Wizard can never hold more than 2 Lore
cards at the same time (i.e. he knows 2 spells at most). 
If a player ends up with more cards than allowed, as
a result of his decision to replenish Lore cards at the end
of his turn, he must discard one of his cards, either the
one just picked, or one already on his Lore cardholder.
A player who plays a Lore card as an interrupt, during
his opponent’s turn, does not get the option to replenish
his hand or Lore reserve until the end of his own
subsequent turn.
This player’s War Council features a level 2 Cleric but no Warrior. 
As a result, his Bless spell is not only cheaper, but also 
more effective than his Strength!
Unhappy with his current selection of Lore cards, 
the player draws two new cards.
One is the Lore card he was hoping for! The player keeps it, 
discarding the other immediately. 
Being already maxed out, the player must discard a card of lesser
interest to put this one in its place.
LORE replenish
At the player’s choice, either:
Draw 2 Lore cards from the Lore deck, 
keep one, and discard the other, face up, 
onto the Lore discard pile
OR
Draw 1 Lore card and take 1 Lore token 
from the common Lore pool
OR
Take 2 Lore tokens from the common 
Lore pool

MANAGING AND 
REPLENISHING LORE 
RESERVES
Just as important as managing his hand of Command
cards and Lore cards, a player must carefully watch his
Lore reserve, and make sure to keep adequate reserves
if he is to launch his own actions at the most opportune
time.
In addition to the Lore tokens possessed at the game's
start based on his Lore Master’s level, a player may Gain
Lore (or regain Lore) in the following ways, depending
on the adventure in play:
• At the end of his game turn, if he opts to pick up
some Lore tokens as described above;
• When rolling a Lore symbol in battle, if this Lore
is not already dedicated to some other usage (Lore
card’s effect, Creature power-up or special power,
etc…);
• When killing one of his opponent's Creatures
(gain 1 token);
• As a result of playing certain Lore cards (i.e.
Summon Lore, etc.);
• When capturing certain terrain hexes or Landmarks
that are sources of Lore on the battlefield;
• Per the adventure’s battle notes.
Unlike Lore cards, there is no limit to the number of
Lore tokens a player may have at a given time. However,
should the Lore pool run out, no further Lore tokens
may be gained until the pool is replenished, usually by
the play of some Lore cards by one or more of the
players. When there are no Lore tokens in the pool,
actions that normally grant Lore grant you nothing
instead. 

WAR COUNCIL 
& LORE MASTERS
Once familiar with the Lore system detailed in
Chapter 8 – Lore, the players can bring a whole
fellowship of Lore Masters of varying origins and talents
to their side. Together these heroes will form the player’s
War Council, whose range of skills and individual raw
power will often decisively sway the battle.
To call a War Council, select a Lore Adventure and
then place a War Council sheet, with the side depicting
all the Lore Masters face up, next to each player. Each
player will use a set number of Lore Master Level
tokens (whose exact mix and composition is left to the
player’s choice or set in the Adventure’s battle notes,
depending on the Lore Adventure being played), to
indicate which Lore Masters participate in his War
Council for the upcoming battle, and what their
respective levels are.
THE COMMANDER
The Commander is the War Council’s single most
important character. He sits at the head of the table,
from where he studies and directs the conflict. 
A born leader, the Commander is the true master of
the battlefield. His level dictates the number of
Command cards the player holds in his cardholder
throughout the game, and the player’s role is to play
those cards to the best of his ability. 
Without a Commander (see "No Commander" in
COMMAND cards table on following page), it will
be difficult to conduct the battle, so we recommend that
a Commander of at least Level 1 sits in on all War
Councils. 
THE WAR COUNCIL
Level 3 Wizard
Level 2 Wizard
Level 1 Wizard
Wizard token on top,
any 0 to 2 other Level
tokens, generic side
face-up, under.
Generic token
Rogue token
Wizard token
Level tokens
Warrior token
Commander token
Cleric token

A player who chooses to play without a Commander
will only have a maximum 3 Command cards at his
disposal at all times.
The level of a Commander on the War Council, hence
the number of Command cards available for play at any
time, is either specified at a preset level in the Adventure’s
battle notes, or determined by the choice of the player,
using his Lore Master Level tokens. The Commander’s
level is indicated by placing a Commander level token,
face up, on the spot reserved to that effect at the head
of the War Council’s table. If the Commander is of
higher level than 1, then generic Level tokens are placed
below it (1 per additional level). And if there is no
commander sitting at the table, then no token is placed
and the Commander’s chair remains empty.
ADDITIONAL 
LORE MASTERS
In addition to the Wizard Lore Master
already introduced in Chapter 8 – Lore,
three other Lore Master character classes can
sit at a player’s War Council.
They are:
THE ROGUE
Cunning and nimble - equally capable of masterful
deceit as he is of a harmless prank, the Rogue is a jack-
of-all-trades, but the master of none. His talent lies in
his remarkable resourcefulness and ability to disrupt the
enemy’s best laid plans…
THE CLERIC
A shepherd to his troops, who he’s known to soothe,
protect and heal even during the worst of combat, this
man of faith can also wield a heavenly wrath upon his
enemies, making him a formidable foe…
THE WARRIOR
A master tactician who never seems to sleeps. Just the
rumor that he has entered the battlefield puts fear into
the spines of lesser soldiers. While he may lack for a
sense of humor and quick wit, his sheer grit and
determination more than compensate, making him a
devastating enemy…
The Wizard and all other Lore Masters use the
following level progression table for determining initial
Lore cards and Lore tokens, as well as maximum Lore
cards in hand.
If several Lore Masters sit at the War Council at the
game start, the one with the highest level determines the
War Council’s starting hand of Lore cards, initial
reserve of Lore tokens and maximum number of Lore
cards in hand at any given time. 
A Level 2 Commander, and his 
5 Command cards.
No Commander and a limited set of plans:
Only 3 Command cards! 
# Cards
Commander Level
No
Commander 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
3 Command cards
4 Command cards
5 Command cards
6 Command cards
COMMAND cards
LORE MASTERS 
progression levels
Max Lore 
cards in hand
Level
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
# Lore tokens 
at start 
# of Lore 
cards at start

The same rules apply to the limit of Lore cards in hand
as when playing a single Lore Master (see p.53 of
Chapter 8 – Lore). If more Lore cards are drawn than
can be kept, some will have to be discarded. 
WAR COUNCIL SET-UP
An adventure’s battle notes will usually spell out a
camp’s War Council composition, including the Lore
Masters present, their respective level and any potential
modification to that camp’s initial Lore reserve.
Place the number of Level tokens on the War Council
sheet for the Commander and each Lore Master present,
using the corresponding Lore Master tokens as the top
tokens and the generic side for any Level tokens below.
When a class of Lore Master is not present, his place
is left unfilled, with no tokens. 
Take the number of Lore tokens appropriate (either
as indicated by the Adventure’s battle notes, or as
dictated by the level of your highest-level Lore Master
on the War Council) from the Lore pool and place them
in your reserve goblet.
Before starting the adventure, the Lore deck must first
be prepared as follows:
• Sort the cards from the Lore deck into four distinct
piles, according to each card's Lore Master class.
Shuffle these four individual decks thoroughly and:
• For each Lore Master class present in both sides’
War Councils, take fourteen cards at random from
each deck, and set them aside. Place any left-over card
of that Lore Master’s class back in the game box,
unseen by the players. When using the Lore Master
decks from the core game only, this means putting
away a single random card, since there are fifteen
cards in each Lore Master’s deck;
• For each Lore Master class represented in only one
of the two camp’s War Councils, take eight cards at
random and set them aside, putting the remaining
cards of that Lore Master class away as above;
• Finally for each Lore Master class absent from both
War Councils, take five cards at random and set
them aside, placing the remaining ones away.
Now shuffle the Lore cards set aside in steps 1-3
above into a single deck, and deal 4 Lore cards to each
side. The players then choose which Lore cards they
keep, according to the number of Lore cards at start kept
by each camp’s highest-level Lore Master (See Table on
p.56 – Lore Masters progression levels). The cards not
kept are discarded and reshuffled in the Lore deck.
Those kept are placed on the player’s Lore cardholders,
face unseen from the enemy. You can now proceed
with the game.
PLAYING A LORE CARD
OUT-OF-CHARACTER
Given the Lore deck set-up process, in some instances,
players will draw Lore cards for which the corresponding
Lore Master is missing from their own War Council.
When such is the case, instead of dismissing the card
as useless, the player can opt to cast the corresponding
Lore card Out-of-character.
Since the required knowledge or skill is missing
from that camp’s War Council, it is harder to pull the
corresponding feat off: You must pay an additional 3
Lore tokens to play the card, beyond the card’s usual
Power cost. 
Lore cards played out-of-character are always played
at Level 1, regardless of the actual level of other Lore
Masters on the War Council. 
As a result, cards with a variable effect can only be
played at their lowest level of play, as if they were cast
by a Level 1 Lore Master of the appropriate class.
This religious-minded Council, with its lone Level 3 Cleric, must
pay 12 Lore tokens to cast this Creeping Doom. Furthermore, 
only 2 dice will be rolled on the target and its surrounding hexes. 

CUSTOMIZING 
A WAR COUNCIL
Experienced players wishing to test their skills can play
with customized War Councils, rather than the preset
ones dictated by an adventure’s battle notes (though we
still recommend first playing the adventure as prescribed,
when preset War Councils are offered). 
To play with customized War Councils, the players
first agree to the total level of Lore Masters in play on
each side. We recommend that players limit themselves
to a total of six levels by default, and in all circumstances,
refrain from using more than ten. If one player is more
experienced than the other, he might offer his opponent
a handicap, starting with 1 or fewer levels.
The players then each secretly assign the levels they
have at their disposal to the various Lore Masters they
wish to have present on their War Council. To do so,
simply place the corresponding stack of Level tokens on
the corresponding Lore Masters. If a class of Lore
Master is not present in the War Council, his spot will
show no level token and remain empty.
The players now proceed to the Lore cards and token
distribution as with regular War Councils, using their
highest level Lore Master to determine their number of
Lore tokens and Lore cards in hand at game start. 
If Lore Master Landmark rules are in effect, players
with a 3rd Level Lore Master may gain a Landmark of
their own at the game’s start. See the section on Lore
Masters’ Landmarks in Chapter 11 – Landmarks for
more details.
When creating your custom War Council, make sure
to carefully weigh the pros and cons of going deep –
taking a high level Lore Master and its corresponding
benefits – versus going broad, having many a Lore
Master at your council table.

As previously mentioned in Part II, 
the World of BattleLore is a Uchronia -
a hypothetical what-if history of
Medieval Europe during the High
Middle Ages, just before the dawn 
of the Renaissance. 
Much of what the world has to offer
will feel familiar, yet differences 
(some obvious, such as the
Mercenaries, Creatures and Lore
Masters already introduced, others
less so) will inevitably crop up as you
explore this old continent further. 
The adventures you choose to tackle 
will progressively 
reveal all, much like they
undoubtedly did
to troops on year-
long war
campaigns 
back in that 
day and age!

Medieval battles, while brutal and bloody affairs,
were often framed by basic and familiar terrain. An
impassable waterway, a densely wooded copse, or an
elevated mound bordering the battlefield, were often the
sole distinctive geographical features on the horizon.
Though rumors abound of a multitude of terrain
variations and nuances in remote lands, there are only
four basic Terrain Types in the core BattleLore game:
• Countryside 
• Wooded Terrain
• Elevated Ground
• Waterways
Each terrain type is characterized by its impact, or
restrictions, on movement, battle and line of sight.
Retreat moves (p.25 of Chapter 4 – Combat) are not
subject to stated terrain movement restrictions.
When present, terrain battle limitations impose a
cap on the default numberof battle dice a unit attacking
in or from this terrain type will roll by default. Usually,
the rougher the terrain, the lower the limit.
As a result, Red Banner troops, weighed down by their
superior armament, or armored mounts, usually suffer
the worst in difficult terrain, while Green Banner
“irregulars” fare comparatively better.
This limit on the number of dice rolled, when present,
only applies to the base number of dice rolled by that
particular troops’ unit type. Bonuses gained from Lore
or Command cards or any other source are not subject
to this limit and still add up, so that the actual number
of dice rolled by a unit in difficult terrain may still exceed
the maximum for that terrain type. 
In the rare instance where a terrain hex might combine
with another terrain type or Landmark on the same hex,
the lowest of these terrain/landmarks maximum is the
one that applies. For an example of this, please see
Ramparts, on p.69 of Chapter 11 – Landmarks.
The Terrain Summary cards provide a short overview
of the key effects of each terrain type. When you set up
an adventure, position the corresponding Terrain
Summary cards alongside the battlefield. The effect
section of each Summary card describes the various
features of the terrain, including its impact on line of
sight, movement and battles.
BASIC TERRAIN TYPES
Heavy Cavalry, tangled up 
in Woods, roll a meager 2d
instead of their regular 4.
Helped by a Bless, 
they now roll 3d. 

Countryside Terrain is the default terrain type of all
the hexes on the board. This open ground terrain type
has no movement or battle restrictions.
A unit that enters a Wooded Terrain hex must stop
and may move no further on that turn. Follow-on moves
are subject to the same terrain movement restrictions
and may thus be impossible or only partially achievable
during this turn.
• A unit that moves onto a Wooded Terrain hex may
still battle that turn.
• A unit on a Wooded Terrain hex battles with a
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Wooded
Terrain hex battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Wooded Terrain hex blocks line of sight.
No movement restrictions.
This Regular Cavalry
successfully forces the 
enemy Infantry to flee. 
It gains ground on it, 
but cannot pursue it further
into Wooded terrain. 
Instead it now
turns around 
to battle another
enemy!
COUNTRYSIDE TERRAIN
WOODED TERRAIN
ELEVATED TERRAIN

• A unit on an Elevated Terrain hex battles with a
maximum of 3 dice.
• A unit not on an Elevated Terrain hex attacking an
enemy unit on an Elevated Terrain, battles with a
An Elevated Terrain hex blocks line of sight, except
from contiguous Elevated Terrain hexes of the same
height.
Waterways are impassable terrain except at fords and
bridges.
A Waterway hex does not block line of sight.
Unit must stop when entering a ford. Gaining ground
and pursuits remain possible.
• A unit may enter a Ford hex and still battle.
• A unit on a Ford hex battles with a maximum of
2 dice.
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Ford hex
battles with no restrictions.
A Ford hex does not block line of sight.
Though technically man-made structures, Bridges
are introduced here because of their close relationship
to Waterways.
No movement restrictions.
Heavy Cavalry only roll 3 dice
down the hill…
and from an adjacent hill. 
Worse, it only 
battles with 2 dice 
up the hill!
FORDS & 
FORDABLE STREAMS
BRIDGES
WATERWAYS

• A unit on a Bridge hex is Bold and may ignore one
flag.
No combat restrictions.
A Bridge hex does not block line of sight.
Bold and
determined 
to hold this 
crucial passage,
the Bridge’s
defenders battle
back!

As we saw in Chapter 10 – Basic Terrain Types,
terrain does not vary much in BattleLore. However, the
ingenious nature of men (or, as some might argue, the
ancestral talent of dwarves and the forced labor of
goblin slaves) is shown in the strategic placement and
inspired construction of the many Landmarks that dot
the landscape.
Be they artificial constructions or natural wonders,
Landmarks are the game’s most distinctive architectural
structures and geographical features. As such, their
control is often heartily contested, and their possession
highly treasured.
LANDMARKS Common Rules 
and Generic Effects
Unless explicitly specified otherwise on a Landmark’s
Summary card, the following terrain rules apply to all
landmarks:
A Landmark boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies a
Landmark, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle back.
• A unit entering a Landmark must stop and may
subject to the same movement restrictions, and thus
may be impossible, or only partially achievable, during
this turn. 
• A unit entering a Landmark hex may not battle that
same turn.
• A unit on a Landmark hex battles with a maximum
of 2 dice.
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Landmark hex
battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Landmark hex blocks line of sight.
LORE MASTERS’
Being characters of considerable means and power,
high-level Lore Masters control vast domains and
countless properties. As a result, they often hold a
commanding advantage - a family-owned or allies’
property located somewhere on the battlefield, at the
onset of battle.
An Adventure’s battle notes will state when Lore
Master Landmark rules are in effect. 
When Lore Master Landmark rules are in effect, a
player with a 3rd Level Lore Master (Cleric, Wizard,
Warrior or Rogue) on his War Council receives the
corresponding Lore Master’s Landmark at start of play. 
If both players have a Level 3 Lore Master of the same
class on their respective War Councils, their benefits

cancel out however, and neither Lore Master receives a
Landmark of that class.
Upon receiving a Lore Master Landmark, and before
the game’s first turn, each player must decide where to
place his newly received property. When both players
have a Landmark to place, the player who moves first
in the adventure must place his Landmark first. Each
Landmark must be placed on an Empty hex, on the 3rd
or 4th row of hexes from the controlling player’s side.
Note that each Lore Master Landmark belongs to the
player who laid it. The Landmark’s special effects only
benefit that player’s units, never the enemy. All other
effects (morale, movement and combat restrictions,
line of sight) still apply to all units occupying the Lore
Master Landmark, regardless of their status (friend or
foe of the Landmark’s original owner).
A Magic Pentacle boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies the Magic
Pentacle, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle back.
Movement and Combat Restrictions
A Magic Pentacle imposes no movement or battle 
restrictions.
A Magic Pentacle does not block line of sight.
At the end of each of your turns during which one of
your Troop's units occupies the Magic Pentacle, you
collect 1 additional Lore from the Lore pool.
A Rogue’s Den boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies a Rogue’s
Den, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle back.
A unit entering a Rogue’s Den must stop and may
subject to the same movement restrictions, and thus may
be impossible, or only partially achievable, during this
turn.
• A unit entering a Rogue’s Den hex may not battle
• A unit on a Rogue’s Den hex battles with a
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Rogue’s Den
hex battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Rogue’s Den blocks line of sight.
During your turn, you may order any unit already on
your Rogue's Den to open a Secret Passage to the
vacant Wooded or Elevated terrain hex of your choice.
Replace the corresponding exit hex with a Secret Passage
hex of matching terrain type. Once set, this exit hex may
not be relocated, nor another one established.
Any friendly unit that starts its turn in your Rogue’s
Den (including the one who establishers the Secret
Passage) may move to the exit hex, at the cost of 1 Lore.
The move counts as your unit’s full movement for the
turn, and can only be made from the Rogue’s Den to
MAGIC PENTACLE 
(wizard)
ROGUE’S DEN
(Rogue)

the exit hex, not in the other direction. A unit using the
Secret Passage may still battle upon its arrival on the
exit hex.
These hexes replace a terrain hex of same type, and
are used to mark the permanent exit of a Rogue’s Den
Secret Passage. 
These hexes boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long a unit occupies a Rogue’s
Den secret passage exit, it may ignore 1 flag, and
possibly battle back.
Movement and Combat Restrictions, 
These hexes have the same Movement, Combat, and
Line of Sight restrictions as the corresponding
underlying terrain (i.e. Wooded terrain or Elevated
terrain, depending on the exit hex chosen). 
A Training Camp boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies a
Training Camp, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly
A unit entering a Training Camp must stop and may
subject to the same movement restrictions, and thus may
be impossible, or only partially achievable, during this
turn.
• A unit entering a Training Camp hex may not battle
• A unit on a Training Camp hex battles with a
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Training
Camp hex battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Training Camp blocks line of sight.
During your turn, you may order any Troop's unit
already in your camp to undergo training. Change the
banner of the unit’s Banner Bearer to the next level up
(i.e. green becomes blue, and blue becomes red). The
ordered unit thus upgraded cannot move or battle this
turn. The Training Camp hex is then removed from the
board. 
TRAINING CAMP
(Warrior)
SECRET PASSAGE
(Rogue)

A Healing Pool boosts the morale of any unit that
occupies it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies the
Healing Pool, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle
back.
A unit that moves onto the Healing Pool hex must
stop and may move no further during that turn. It may
still battle, but cannot use the pool’s healing power in
that case.
A Healing Pool has no combat restrictions.
A Healing Pool does not block Line of Sight.
If you order a Weakened unit to move onto the
Healing Pool, it is immediately restored to its maximum
number of figures. The healed unit cannot move further
or battle during this turn. The Healing Pool is then
removed from the board. 
COMMANDER’S
The presence of Commander’s Landmarks on the
battlefield is either dictated by the Adventure’s battle map
(Ramparts), or by the Commander’s presence in a
War Council (Stronghold).
When you have a Level 3 Commander in your War
Council, you must place a Stronghold in a Countryside
hex occupied by one of your units, at the start of the
adventure. If both sides have a Level 3 Commander, they
both deploy a Stronghold.
A Stronghold boosts the morale of any friendly unit
that occupies it to Bold. It also boosts the morale of
any friendly unit on a hex adjacent to the Stronghold!
As long as a unit occupies or stands next to the
Stronghold, it may ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle
back. An enemy unit occupying your stronghold or
standing next to it does not gain the stronghold’s
boost to Morale.
A unit entering a Stronghold must stop and may
move no further on that turn. 
• A unit entering a Stronghold hex may not battle
• A unit on a Stronghold hex battles with a
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Stronghold
hex battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Stronghold blocks line of sight.
If an enemy unit captures your stronghold, your
opponent selects one of your Command cards at
random to discard. Until you reclaim the Stronghold
hex, you must play with one less Command card in
HEALING POOL
(Cleric)
STRONGHOLD x2
(Commander)

hand. When you reclaim the hex, immediately draw
a supplemental Command card to replenish your
hand to its original size.
A Rampart boosts the morale of any unit that occupies
it to Bold. As long as a unit occupies a Rampart, it may
ignore 1 flag, and possibly battle back.
A unit already on a Rampart is not subject to
movement restrictions when moving onto an adjacent
Rampart. Any other unit entering a Rampart must stop
and may move no further on that turn. Follow-on moves
are subject to the same movement restrictions, and
thus may be impossible, or only partially achievable,
during this turn. 
• A unit entering a Rampart may not battle that same
turn, unless it is moving in from an adjacent Rampart.
• A unit on a Rampart battles with a maximum of
2 dice.
• A unit attacking an enemy unit on a Rampart
battles with a maximum of 2 dice.
A Rampart blocks line of sight.
When a Rampart is placed on terrain that already
contains some battle restrictions, such as an Elevated
Ground, the most restrictive movement and battle
restrictions of the two are the ones that apply.
Creatures will often have a lair of their own,
somewhere on the battlefield, where they can hope for
relative safety far from human eyes, while readying their
next devastating rampage. 
These Creatures’ properties – and the corresponding
illustrated hexes - will be introduced and described in
Summary cards, similar to those provided for the Lore
Masters’ Landmarks, that come with each individual
Creature.
Before the game's first turn, the player must decide
where to place his Creatures' Lair. When both players
have a Creatures' Lair to place, the player who moves
first in the scenario must place his Creatures' Lair first.
Each Creatures' Lair must be placed on an empty hex,
on the 3rd or 4th row of hexes from the controlling
player's side.
CREATURES’ LAIRS
RAMPARTS x4
The Cavalry attacks
with 2 dice only,
despite being on
an adjacent hill,
because of the
Ramparts’
protection.

This lexicon provides a short description of the key
concepts in BattleLore. When the Player's Guide first
introduces you to these concepts, you'll often find that
the key words are marked in green bold text to make
it easier for you to reference. 
1d, 2d: Denotes a number of Battle dice to be rolled;
1d denotes 1 Battle dice to be rolled, etc. 
1d/Level: 1d/Level signifies 1 die per level (of the
acting Lore Master). Lore cards played out of character
are considered as if played by a Level 1 Lore Master. 
1d/Level + x, 1d/Level – x: Denotes 1 die per
level, plus or minus x dice. 
Active player: The player whose turn it is.
Adventure:
• A description of all the game play information
necessary to start a BattleLore game session. An
adventure includes:
• A Battle Map, depicting the lay of the land, and the
forces deployed on the battlefield at game start;
• Battle Notes, detailing the number of Victory Banners
required for each camp, the number of Command cards
and/or the recommended composition of each camp’s
War Council, and any Special rules or custom Victory
conditions in effect.
Agincourt:A decisive English victory over the French,
in the Age of BattleLore; the introductory adventure
that introduces BattleLore players to the rules of
Medieval battle, in the Adventures booklet.
Army: All the units of one camp, on the battlefield.
Attacking unit: The unit initiating
a Battle dice roll against an enemy
target unit.
Banner: A key game element, used
to distinguish various units on the
Battlefield and display a unit’s key
characteristics. 
Illustrated Battlelore
LEXICON
APPENDICES 

Banner Bearer: Any figure with a banner attached
to its base. 
Banner color: The dominant hue or background
color of a banner’s flag. Indicates the unit’s type (Green,
Blue or Red).
Banner pattern:The illustration on the background
of the colored sticker on a unit’s banner. Determines the
side to which a unit belongs.
Banner type: there are two types of banners, each
shape defining a camp: Pennant banners and Standard
banners. See “Pennant” and “Standard”.
Banner undertone:The dominant hue or background
color of a banner. Indicates the unit’s type (Green, Blue
or Red). 
Base: The plastic stand to a which a figure (and
sometimes a banner) are attached. Foot units have a
square base, Mounted units a rectangular one, and
Creatures a hexagonal one.
Battle:Battle dice rolls against an opponent during the
course of combat. Most often a single dice roll, but
sometimes multiple dice rolls if the battle includes
Follow-on actions. A Battle can either be a Melee, or a
Ranged attack.
Battlefield: The illustrated portion of the game
board, or board map, on which a BattleLore adventure
takes place; A single board map consists of 9 x 13 hexes,
split in three distinct sections.
Battles, at + d (at –d): Indicates a battle in which
the attacker rolls more (fewer) Battle dice than normal.
For instance, a Blue banner battling at -1d would roll 2
Battle dice in combat, instead of its usual 3.
Battle back: In Melee, the attack of a
defending unit against its attacker, during his
opponent’s game turn and immediately
following a unit's Melee attack. Only units that are able
to ignore a flag, i.e. Bold units, may battle back.
Battle dice: The dice that come with the
game. They are used during combat to
determine a battle’s outcome and other actions.
Battle map: An overview representation of the
battlefield, including any relevant terrain hex or
landmark, and showing the position of the forces
deployed at the start of a BattleLore adventure. 
Battle phase: see combat phase.
BattleLore Primer: An introductory document,
describing the BattleLore game system; available
from your favorite retailer, or for download at
www.battlelore.com/intro
Blazon tokens:The shield-shaped tokens displaying
the warring camps’ flag patterns. These are usually
positioned on the board map at the start of an adventure
to designate victory objectives on the battlefield.
Blue banners: Blue banners, and by reference, the
a single unit. Also see "Regulars".
Bold:A unit that may ignore a retreat flag, giving it the
opportunity to battle back when attacked in Melee. If
the unit may ignore more than one flag in a single
battle, the number of flags it may ignore is specified in
subscript, next to its Bold status.
Bonus Melee attack: A “bonus” Melee attack
available to Mounted units making a Pursuit and other
units in special situations.
Bonus strike:The increased probability of
hitting a unit, using the Sword on Shield
symbol of a Battle die to score a hit in combat.
Camp:The player - or players, when playing in teams
- on the same side of the game table during an
adventure. A player from the opposite camp is often
referred to as your Opponent, and his units as the
enemy, or foe.
Cardholders:The elongated plastic stands that come
with the game. Once assembled, they form a stand
upon which the player can set his cards for study, during
game play, hidden from his opponent(s), but still visible
to his game partner(s).
Cleric: A Lore Master who uses the power of
the Lore to further his beliefs.
Combat phase:The phase, in a game turn,
during which Battles are declared and
resolved.
Command cards: The cards played to order, move
and battle with units during a player’s game turn.

Command phase: The phase of the game during
which a Command card is played.
Controlling player: The player
issuing orders to the designated
Creature: A single figure, repre-
senting one of the game’s unique
and noteworthy monsters. Creatures
are recognizable by a distinctive ban-
ner, and hexagonal base. Creatures
have their own special rules of play.
Critical Hit: A hit requiring two successful
Battle dice rolls: The first one is a regular hit
(Creature’s banner color, or possibly Bonus
strike or Lore depending on the weapons and
Lore cards used), but the second one must
be a hit rolling the creature’s banner color.
Only those dice that scored a hit on the first roll are re-
rolled a second time to try and score the Critical hit.
Dwarves: Renowned for their – some might say
stubborn – tenacity and refusal to give even an inch on
the battlefield, Dwarves are prized mercenaries one
often hopes to have at one’s side.
Damage:The default number of Battle dice rolled by
a Creature or weapon equipped unit, in combat.
Abbreviated as 1d, 2d, etc… depending on the number
of dice rolled.
Defending unit: The unit on the receiving end of a
battle, i.e. the one against which Battle dice are rolled.
Equal to Command:A number equal to the number
of Command cards held by the player, including the
Command card currently in play, if any.
Elimination/Kill: The removal a unit’s last figure,
always its Banner Bearer.
Flag, Retreat: The Retreat flag symbol
displayed on the side of a Battle die. Commonly
referred to simply as a flag.
Figure:a single plastic miniature model, representing
a single or small group of combatants, in the game.
Flag, taking a: The action of moving a unit backward
as a result of a Retreat flag having been rolled against
the unit during a battle.
Flag, ignoring one:The capacity of a unit to ignore
one flag rolled against it, during a given battle dice
roll.
Foot unit:A unit composed of Foot figures, recognizable
by their square base and figure model. By default, a Foot
unit at full strength is composed of four identical figures.
Follow-on actions:The actions a unit in Melee may
make if it destroys or causes an enemy to retreat.
Follow-on actions include follow-on movement, as well
as Bonus attacks (and Battle Backs, for its opponents).
These actions are all considered part of the same
“Battle”.
Follow-on moves:The additional movement a unit
may make if it destroys or pushes its enemy back in
Melee. Follow-on moves include: Gaining ground and
Making a Pursuit.
Frightened:A unit that must retreat more than 1 hex
for each flag rolled against it in battle. If the unit is
forced to retreat more than a single additional hex for
each flag rolled against it, the number of additional
hexes it must retreat is specified in subscript, next to its
Frightened status.
Gaining ground: The action, for an attacking unit
after Melee, when moving onto an adjacent hex just
vacated by its enemy.
Gaining Lore:Receiving Lore from the common Lore
pool into one’s Lore reserve, as the result of an action
(rolling Lore symbols on the Battle dice, killing a
creature, etc.) or decision (drawing Lore tokens at the
end of a game turn).
Game turn: The basic sequence of actions followed
by a player’s camp during its turn. 
Goblinoids: Rumored to have their origins in little-
traveled desert areas, these diminutive creatures and
their larger brethren, the Hobgoblins, are vicious when
in pack, but behave cowardly once cornered. 

Green banners:Green banners, and by reference, the
a single unit. Also see "Irregulars".
Heavies:The shock troops of an army, equipped with
the finest weapons, heaviest armor and best mounts.
See "Red banners".
Helmet, colored:On Battle dice, the symbol
used to designate a hit against a specific
banner color. i.e. Against a green banner unit,
a green helmet rolled will indicate a hit; etc.
Throughout the rules the words, “rolling the
unit’s banner color” and similar expressions,
refer to rolling a helmet of the same color as
the unit’s banner color.
Hex, adjacent: A hex sharing a common side with
another hex.
Hexes, surrounding: All the hexes (usually 6)
adjacent to a given hex.
Hex, vacating a: The action of physically moving a
unit from the hex it was defending toward another
one, thus emptying the hex for the attacker to move
onto and gain ground.
Hit: A Battle die roll that matches the conditions
necessary to “hit” a unit, triggering the removal of one
of its remaining figures. By default, a colored helmet
matching the banner color of a target unit is a hit.
Irregulars: Soldiers with poor training and equipment.
These light troops often harass the enemy rather than
confront it directly. Also see “Green Banners”.
Landmark: a hex or group of hexes depicting any
man-made, unnatural or magical building structure or
significant, distinctive, terrain feature. Landmarks
usually bear their own individual game effects.
Line of Sight:An imaginary line running between an
attacker’s hex and its target, and simulating whether the
target is visible from the attacker’s perspective or not.
Lore:The mysterious source of power that permeates
the world of BattleLore; the source of power behind all
of the BattleLore’s wondrous effects.
Lore card:The cards describing the Lore spells, actions
and powers available to the Lore Masters.
Lore card icons:
Lore Master: A BattleLore advisor, sitting at the
player’s War Council, and providing him with aid through
the use of its legendary Lore powers.
Lore pool: The common " bank" of Lore tokens at the
game board’s side from which Lore tokens are drawn,
and discarded back to, throughout the game. 
Lore power/Lore action: A Lore Master’s unique
legendary action, spell, trick, etc. Lore powers cost
Lore tokens, which are paid out of the player’s reserve. 
Lore reserve: A player’s personal reserve of Lore
tokens. It fluctuates throughout the game and is stored
in the player’s Lore goblet. 
Lore symbol: The side of a Battle die
displaying this symbol. It is used to trigger
certain Lore effects and special powers.
Ranged
Melee
Dice Roll
symbol
Orders
Reaction

Lore token: A token collected from a
common Lore pool, and used to power various
Lore effects and powers. 
Melee, Melee attack: Any attack or action
initiated on an enemy unit situated in an
adjacent hex. If the attacker is equipped with
a ranged weapon, it is still considered engaged in Melee
when it uses its weapon at Point Blank.
Melee weapon:A weapon used exclusively in Melee.
Mercenary Commands:Friendly troop units, usually
of a different race, that join an army’s camp for the
duration of an adventure.
Miss:A battle die roll that has no effect on the target
unit. 
Mounted unit:A unit composed of Mounted figures,
recognizable by their rectangular base, figure model
and its mount. By default, a Mounted unit at full
strength is composed of three identical figures.
Morale:A reflection of the unit’s fearlessness in combat.
It determines how the unit reacts to Retreat flags rolled
against it. By default, a unit’s morale is Normal, and for
each flag rolled against it in battle the unit is forced to
retreat 1 hex toward its side of the battlefield. 
Morale, Bold: See "Bold".
Morale, Frightened: See "Frightened".
Morale modifier: A condition modifying a unit’s
current morale value. The modifier might be permanent
(e.g. racial bonus of Dwarven infantry) or conditional
and temporary (e.g. Morale boost due to Support from
friendly units, special Landmark protection bonus, etc.)
Movement: The action of moving a unit’s group of
figures on the battlefield.
Movement phase: The phase of a game
turn during which units are physically moved
on the battlefield.
Orders phase: The phase of a game turn
during which units are activated and issued
orders, usually by designating these units to the
opponent.
Out-of-character, playing a Lore card:The action
of playing a Lore card without the pre-requisite Lore
Master at the War Council’s table. Doing so costs an
additional 3 Lore tokens above and beyond the action’s
normal cost. Above and beyond the action's normal
cost, and the Lore card may only be played at level 1.
Out-of-section, activating/ordering a Creature:
The action of ordering a Creature unit that is outside
the normal scope of a Section card in play. Doing this
action costs 3 Lore.
Out-of-turn, playing: An action made or taken
during the opponent’s game turn. Also see “Reaction
card”.
Panic Loss, check for: The roll of as many Battle dice
as a unit retreats hexes. Occurs on Frightened units.
Goblins are perennial targets for panic checks.
Pennant:A banner whose flag is attached
to the flagpole’s side, as if floating in the
wind. One of the two banner shapes in
BattleLore. Also see “Standard”.
Pennant player:Player (or players team)
commanding the Pennant bearing units on
the battlefield.
Phase of play:The phase of the game turn, or moment
in time, at which a Lore card must be played in order for
its action to become effective. See p.49-50 of Chapter 8
– Lorefor a complete list of the different phases of play.
Point Blank, firing at:A ranged weapon firing on an
enemy unit situated in an adjacent hex. Point Blank fire
is a Melee action.
Power cost:The cost, in Lore tokens, that must be paid
to launch a Lore action or power.
Power-up: The action of temporarily “storing” the
results of Lore symbols rolled by a Creature in battle, to
start building up toward the Lore requirements of the
Creature’s special powers. To keep track of this power-up,
a Lore token is placed next to the Creature for each Lore
rolled that the player wishes to “save”. These tokens
are discarded back into the Lore pool when the Creature
finally unleashes its special power (or when it dies).
Pursuit Action: The movement of a Mounted unit
(and other units in special situations), to gain ground
and then move up to one hex beyond its enemy’s just-
vacated hex, following a successful Melee battle.
Race:The distinct culture, breed or lineage from which
a unit descends from.

Range: The distance between an attacker and its
target, excluding the hex on which the attacker stands,
but including the hex of its target. 
Ranged attack/ Ranged combat: Any
attack of a unit equipped with a ranged
weapon on an enemy unit that is more than 1
hex away (as opposed to firing at Point Blank, which is
a Melee action).
Ranged weapon:Any weapon with a reach greater
than 1 hex. Usually a weapon firing missiles (arrows,
bolts, etc…)
Reaction card:A Lore card that can be played out of
turn, i.e. during the opponent’s game turn, or in reaction
to an opponent’s action. Recognizable on a Lore card by
its distinctive light-colored text background.
Red banners: Red banners, and by reference, the
a single unit. Also see "Heavies".
Regulars: The troops of a nation's standing army.
Professionally trained and well disciplined, they form
the backbone of most armies on the battlefield. Also see
“Blue banners”.
Retreat:The action resulting from the roll of a battle
die displaying the Retreat flag. Usually a movement of
the targeted unit toward its own side of the battlefield,
or the removal of one of the unit’s figures if the retreat
movement is blocked.
Rogue:A Lore Master who uses the power of
the Lore for disruption and mischief.
Section: One of the three portions of the
map, as delimited by the battle map’s side edges and
red dotted lines. The three sections are:
Section card: A Command card
activating units solely based on which
section of the battlefield they reside in.
Section cards are recognizable by the
schematic map of the battlefield they
display.
Side: One of the two opposing warring factions. Also
see "Camp". A movement toward a player’s side is a
movement in the direction of that player’s edge of the
battlefield.
Special power: Special powers characterize a
Creature’s unique capabilities. A special power has a cost,
in Lore symbols, which must be obtained during a dice
roll in battle before the Creature can unleash the
corresponding power. Creatures have a unique ability
to temporarily set any Lore symbol rolled aside, in a
process known as a Power-up.
Standard: A banner whose flag is
hanging down from the top. One of the
two banner shapes in BattleLore. Also
see “Pennant”.
Standard player: Player (or players
team) commanding the Standard bearing
units on the battlefield.
Support: Any unit adjacent to at least two friendly
units is said to receive Morale Support. A unit with
support may ignore one flag rolled against it in Battle,
and is entitled to battle back if the opportunity arises.
Sword on Shield symbol: The side of a
Battle die displaying this symbol. It is used to
score potential Bonus strikes.
Tactic card: A Command card
activating units that match the card’s
tactical requirements, as described in
its text. 
Target:When used on a Lore card, this
keyword does not necessarily mean “target” in the
traditional sense of the word. Instead, it simply
designates the object(s), unit(s), or player, etc. on
which or to whom the effect of the Lore card applies. 
If the Lore card is a card with a favorable
effect, the “target” of the card is usually more
of a “beneficiary”. If on the other hand the
card has a harmful effect, its target is often a “target”
in the usual sense of the word.
Terrain effect: The set of rules associated with a
given terrain type; summed up on the corresponding
Terrain summary card.
Right Wing

Terrain hex, Countryside:Any terrain hex featuring
the countryside. By default, all the hexes printed on the
board map are considered countryside.
Terrain hex, empty:Any vacant, countryside terrain
hex.
Terrain hex, vacant: Any terrain hex that is not
occupied by a unit.
Terrain Summary card:A summary card describing
a terrain’s effects on a unit's movement and battle.
Terrain tile: A hexagonal shaped tile that is placed on
the battlefield.
Terrain type: The type of landscape or vegetation
covering a terrain hex tile.
Tokens, Lore Master Level: Large round tokens,
used to mark the presence and level of each Lore
Master in a player’s War Council. Lore Master tokens are
used Lore Master’s side face up to indicate the presence
of a Lore Master in the War Council. The generic side of
the token is used to mark the additional levels of a
Lore Master.
Tokens, Status: The tokens used to keep track of
Lore cards effects or other conditions that impact a unit
over several game turns.
Trampled:A unit who loses a figure as a result
of blocking the retreat path of a Creature.
Troops:Any figure type requiring multiple models of itself
to form a full-strength unit on the battlefield. Foot units
(4 figures at full strength) and Mounted units (3 figures
at full strength) form troops; Units composed of a single
stand-alone figure, such as Creatures, do not.
Troop type: The level of Military training of a troop.
There are three distinct troop types in BattleLore,
distinguished by the color undertone of their banners’ flag:
• Green banners or Irregulars
• Blue banners or Regulars
• Red banners or Heavies
Uchronia: A What-if or Alternate history. In our case,
the history of Medieval Europe as it might have been (or
once was…)
Unit:A group of figures that occupy (share) the same hex.
Unit, attacking: The unit initiating an attack.
Unit, defending: The unit being attacked. 
Unit, enemy: A unit controlled by your opponent; a
unit that belongs to the other camp.
Unit, weakened: A unit missing one or more figures
from its initial count.
Vacating a Hex: The action of physically moving a unit
from the hex it was defending onto another one, thus
emptying the hex for the attacker to move onto and
gain ground.
Victory Banners: The Victory points of the game. Any
Banner Bearer (or Blazon token) captured is placed
on the player’s Victory Track and counts toward his
total Victory banners requirements for this particular
adventure.
Victory Track: The portion of the board map, on the
edge of the battlefield, onto which Victory banners
and tokens are placed, to keep track of the players’
progress during an adventure.
Generic token
Rogue token
Wizard token
Warrior token
Commander token
Cleric token

War Council: A group of Lore Master personalities, as
depicted on the player’s War Council sheet; Veterans of
many a fight, they help the player’s camp with their
unique Lore prowess.
War Council sheet:The sheet on which players place
their Lore Masters tokens at the start of the game, to
form their War Council.
Warrior:A Lore Master who uses the power
of the Lore to dominate the battlefield.
Wax seals:The wax seals on the players’ edges of the
board map. This is where Victory banners and tokens
are placed once gained.
Weapon card: A reference card depicting one
weapon, along with a summary of its rules of play.
Weapon reach:The maximum range at which a unit
equipped with the weapon can attack another unit. 
Weapon symbol: The icon depicting the weapon
used by the banner bearer’s unit. The weapon symbol
is displayed on the inner portion of the banner bearer’s
flag.
Weapon type: The category of attack a weapon is
capable of. A Melee weapon can only be used against
adjacent enemy units, while a Ranged weapon can be
used against any target within reach of the weapon. 
Wizard: A Lore Master using Lore to power
his magical creations and spells.
Shortsword
Longsword

The following miniatures are included in the initial version of BattleLore. The numbers next to each banner symbol
specify the number of banner bearers of each type (Standard or Pennant) included in the core game. Additional figures
(without banners) are provided to complement these units and play the adventures provided in the Adventures' booklet.
Finally, some spare banners of varying type are included for future adventures. 
UNITS COMPENDIUM
Cavalry
Cavalry
Regular Cavalry
Regular Cavalry
Infantry
Infantry
Regular Infantry
Regular Infantry
Irregular Infantry
Irregular Infantry
Archers
Archers
Hobgoblin Archers
Goblin Skirmisher
Goblin Swordsman
Red Banner Hobgoblin
Swordsman
Hobgoblin Cavalry
Green Banner Iron
Dwarf Crossbowman
Blue Banner Iron
Dwarf Swordsman
Red Banner Iron
Dwarf Swordsman
(Heavy)
Giant Spider