THE CARD GAME
Adapted from Car Wars: The Card Game, designed by Creede and Sharleen Lambard
Moo-difications by Aldo Ghiozzi and Philip Reed
Editing and development by Steve Jackson
Battle Cattle: The Card Game is the game of cow-
to-cow combat. In the near future, combat between
armed and armored cows will be a daily occurrence in
farmyards and pastures gone mad. You shoot at the
other cows, trying to destroy their hooves and armor.
The last surviving Battle Cattle is the winner!
This game can be played by 2 to 6 players, ages 10
and up.
In each battle, or duel, the players play cards to
chop up each others’ Battle Cattle. When one side of a
cow is breached (the armor on that side is destroyed),
its body may be attacked! If a cow’s body takes 5
points of damage, it is hamburger and out of play. The
player who put in the last point of damage scores the
kill. (Note that all the Battle Cattle will be back for the
next duel! Too much is at steak for one of these cham-
pions to stay dead.) When only one cow is left (or
when time runs out), the duel is over.
New duels continue until one player has scored 60
points to become an Ace!
This game includes these rules; six large Cow
Cards; and 110 playing cards. There are three types of
playing cards: Attack, Armor and Special.
Attack cards let you attack another player. Each
Attack card shows a weapon and the side it hits – front,
back, right, or left. In addition, there are four Called
Shot cards which will let you attack any side. The 
bullet holes at the top of the Attack card, and the num-
ber on the cow skull, show how much damage it does.
Armor cards let you reduce the damage done when
someone plays an Attack card on you. You cannot play
an Armor card before you are attacked. Each Armor
card shows one side, and can only be used to reduce
damage from that side. For instance, a Right Armor
card, played after your right side is hit, will reduce the
damage from that attack by 3 points. An Armor card
must be played immediately when you are hit, or it
doesn’t count.
Armor can also be used to reduce damage from any
Specials that do damage, such as Autocannon Backfires
and Skid Into A Fence.
It is perfectly legal to play two Armor cards at once
if you have them. Two Armor cards would stop all
damage from any normal attack. 
Armor does not protect against a Methane attack!
Special cards let you do a variety of things. Some
(like Hoof Shot) may be played only on your turn.
Some may be played at any time, including the
moment the duel starts. Some may only be played in
response to a card played by an opponent. Follow the
instructions on each card.
Overview
Components
Breached Armor
When the armor on one side of a Battle Cattle takes
12 or more points of damage, it is breached. The player
should square the cards on that side of the cow and
turn them face down to show the breach.
The attack that creates the breach does not affect
the body, but any further attacks to that side will reach
the body unless stopped by armor. Armor can still be
played on a breached side.
Place attack cards that affect the body in a new
stack outside the first breach.
Eliminating an Opponent
When the Battle Cattle’s tender, juicy body takes 5
or more points of damage, it has been disabled and is no
longer able to shoot or moo-ve. All damage, armor and
Special cards applied to that Battle Cattle, along with the
hand of the player who owned it, go to the discard pile.
The player whose Attack card did the final hit of damage
gets credit for a kill. A kill can only be scored with an
Attack card – if a player is taken out by a Skid, the
points go to whoever played the Attack card
that player was moo-ving to avoid.
Escaping
At the end of his turn, a player may
announce that he is escaping from the arena
(usually to avoid being eliminated). If his
Battle Cattle is still operating at the begin-
ning of his next turn and its hooves have
not been destroyed, he leaves the arena . . .
and no one gets credit for eliminating him.
On the turn when he declares he is
escaping, a player takes his turn normally.
On the turn when he escapes, he does noth-
ing else. If he cannot escape because his
hooves are now gone, he takes his turn 
normally.
Reshuffling
Sometimes the players will go complete-
ly through the deck without a winner. If this
happens, reshuffle the discard pile and turn it
over, making a new draw pile. If the players
go through the deck a second time, do not
reshuffle. All players still in the duel share
equally in a tie.
Scoring and Winning
The last player whose Battle Cattle is still in the
arena and has not been killed is the winner of the duel.
He scores 20 points. In addition, each player gets 10
points for each opponent he has reduced to hamburger.
If the duel ended in a tie, each player still in the
duel at the end gets 10 points.
If one player does something especially good, the
other players may award him a 5-point Prestige Bonus by
majority vote. Prestige might be awarded for: winning a
duel with all four sides of one’s armor breached; winning
a duel with all one’s hooves shot off; winning a duel with
no breached armor; winning a duel with no kills; or
doing anything that makes all the other players shout at
once! Really terrible cow puns may also be worth points.
The Next Duel
When the scoring is completed, gather up the cards.
The player to the previous dealer’s right shuffles and
deals the cards for the next duel. Each player starts the
new duel with a fully repaired Battle Cattle.
Play a series of duels until one player
reaches 60 points at the end of a round.
(If two or more players reach 60 points,
the player with the highest number of
points wins. If it’s a tie, everyone contin-
ues playing until someone has broken the
tie at the end of a duel.) That player is
declared Chief Beef, and wins the game!
Combining the Games
This game can be combined with Car Wars: The Card
Game to fight armored cars against your Battle Cattle. Well, of
course you want to do that. To combine the games, use both
decks. Cow players draw from the Battle Cattle deck. Car
players draw from the Car Wars deck.
Tire Shot and Hoof Shot cards are universal. Either one
can be applied equally well to a car or a cow.
Likewise, Skid cards are universal. It doesn’t matter
whether you hit a wall or a fence; any foe trying to Swerve or
Moo-ve away from an attack.
Methane affects a car’s Driver directly.
Fireproof Armor cards from both games protect equally
well against Flamethrower and Cattle-pult attacks.
Dud Milk Bomb cards also protect against Missiles.
Dud Missile Cards also protect against Milk Bombs.
Finally, each game includes two bonus cards with backs
for the other deck. Cow Tipping is an attack that can be made
only BY cars ON cows. Trample is an attack that can be
made only BY Battle Cattle ON cars.
Game design: Creede and Sharleen Lambard • Game development: Steve Jackson
Moo-difications by Aldo Ghiozzi and Philip Reed 
Cover art: Sanford Greene • Graphic Design: Alex Fernandez 
Creative Director: Phil Reed • Production: Alex Fernandez 
Print buying: Phil Reed and Monica Stephens
Playtesters: Sharon Cichelli, Gina Fischer, Ross Jepson, 
Jonathan Leistiko, and Remi Treuer.
Copyright © 2001 by Steve Jackson Games. Battle Cattle is a 
trademark of Wingnut Games. All cow names are trademarks of Steve Jackson
Games Incorporated. All rights reserved. Eat your heart out.
The Cards
The deck includes 110 cards:
●Attack Cards
14 regular attack cards for each of
the four sides of a cow – Front, Rear,
Left, and Right: 
One Cattle-pult 
One Flamethrower
One Cattle Prod
One Horns
Two Autocannon 
Four Milk Bomb 
Four Machine Gun
10 special attack cards:
Two Called Shot – Milk Bomb
Two Called Shot – Machine Gun
Two Methane Cloud
Four T-Bone – two Right, two Left
●Armor Cards
Six for each of the four sides of 
a cow.
●20 Special Cards
Two Skid Into A Fence
Two Hoof Shot 
Two Steer Clear 
Six Moo-ve 
Two Machine Gun Jams! 
Two Fireproof Armor
Two Autocannon Backfires!
Two Dud Milk Bomb!
There are also two bonus Cow Tipping
cards. If you also have Car Wars: The
Card Game (see Combining the
Games), these two cards are attacks
that can be made only by duel-cars
against Battle Cattle.
Play of the Duel
TM

Each player starts with a Cow Card (the large cards
with the pictures of the Battle Cattle). These are used
to keep track of damage, and of how much damage
each part of your cow can take. “Right 12,” for
instance, means your right-side armor can take 12
points of damage before it is breached – it has taken
enough damage that the body is exposed to attacks.
Shuffle the playing cards and deal five to each
player, face down. Set the deck face down in the mid-
dle of the table. This is the draw pile. The discard pile
will be next to the draw pile.
Note: In a two-or three-player game, remove one of
each of the following cards from the deck: Machine
Gun Jams!, Fireproof Armor, Autocannon Backfires!,
Dud Milk Bomb!
Object of the Game
The object is to have the last operating Battle
Cattle. A cow is still operating if it has not escaped, and
its body has not been disabled. It is possible for two or
more players to have operating cows at the end of a
duel – this is a tie.
Drawing and Playing
Each player picks up his cards and arranges them
to suit himself. The player to the left of the dealer plays
first. In his turn, a player draws enough cards to bring
his hand up to six cards. He must then either:
• Attack;
• Play a Special;
• or Discard.
Attack – A player may attack any other player by
placing an Attack card in front of him. If the attacked
player can reply to the Attack card (by playing an
Armor card or an appropriate Special), he may do so
immediately.
Special – A player may play a Fireproof Armor (sub-
ject to the rules below) or Machine Gun Jams! card
rather than playing an Attack card or discarding. (Other
Special cards can only be played on someone else’s turn.)
Discard – If he cannot attack or play a Special, or
just doesn’t want to, the player must place one or more
cards in the discard pile in the center of the table.
These cards are out of play until the deck is reshuffled.
A player may not discard at any other time.
The next player to the left now brings his hand up
to six cards and attacks, discards or plays a Special.
Play continues to the left.
Attack
The attack is the basic move of the game. To attack
an opponent, just play an Attack card on him.
Attack cards do from 3 to 6 points of damage to
one side of the target cow. This may be modified by a
Special, or by an Armor card. If the target player holds
any Armor cards for the side of the cow which was hit,
he may play them immediately. (He may not play an
Armor card later to reduce damage already taken. The
armor card must be in his hand at the time the Attack
card is played.) Each Armor card immediately stops 3
points of damage.
If the amount of damage stopped equals or exceeds
the amount of damage on the Attack card, the Attack
card and Armor card(s) are discarded. Otherwise, the
Attack card is placed next to the Cow card, on the
damaged side. Any Armor cards are placed to cover the
amount of damage they stopped.
Example: In the diagram below, the player has just
taken 6 points of damage from a flamethrower blast to
his right side.
In the next diagram, the defending player has offset
3 points of damage with an Armor card. 
A player may not draw cards at
any time except the beginning of
his turn. At that time,
he draws enough
cards to bring his
hand up to six.
T-Bone
The T-Bone
attack is unique. You
slam your Battle
Cattle itself into the
side of an opponent!
After you T-Bone
him, then on that
same turn you may
also play another
Attack card in order
to shoot him as well.
The follow-up Attack
card must be for the
same side you
rammed him on!
If your target
plays a Steer Clear after you T-Bone him, making you
hit him on a different side, you may still follow up with
a weapon attack, but it must be against the side where
you actually attacked him.
If your target plays a Moo-ve after you T-Bone
him, you missed and you may not follow up with a
weapon attack. If he does not announce a Moo-ve after
you T-Bone him, he cannot then swerve to avoid your
follow-up attack . . . you are firing at point-blank
range!
This attack does not damage your own cow, but
you may not T-Bone an opponent if your own front is
breached or if you have lost your hooves.
Specials
Some of these cards allow special attacks. Others
can be used to cancel an appropriate Attack card.
The Machine Gun Jams! and Fireproof Armor
cards must be left in front of the player in the
“Specials” area (at the lower right hand corner
of his Cow card) as long as he is in the
duel. If his cow is eliminated, they are
gathered up with his other cards and
discarded. Specials which do dam-
age are placed on the appropriate
side of the target cow. All other
Special cards are discarded after
use.
Fireproof Armor
Fireproof Armor cards may
be played at any time during the
duel – not just during the holder’s
turn. A player may only play a
Fireproof Armor card on himself if he
has not yet taken any damage from a
Flamethrower or Cattle-pult card. If he avoided dam-
age on a previous turn by playing two Armor cards at
once, or a Moo-ve (when the Flamethrower card would
be discarded), he may still play Fireproof Armor.
Fireproof Armor also protects the body against
Cattle-pult and Flamethrower damage, even after the
armor has been breached.
A Fireproof Armor card even protects against
Flamethrower and Cattle-pult damage to hooves. This
is an exception to the general rule on the Hoof Shot
card.
Machine Gun Jams!
Machine Gun Jams! cards may be played at any
time during the duel – not just during the holder’s turn.
A player may play a Machine Gun Jams! card on any
foe at any time. If that foe had just played a Machine
Gun attack on anyone, that attack fails and his turn is
over.
The only way for the victim of the Machine Gun
Jams! card to “unjam” his guns is to discard all the
cards in his hand on his turn, doing nothing else that
turn. He can then draw six new cards at the beginning
of his next turn.
Autocannon Backfires!
This card can only be played when you have just
been attacked by an autocannon. Instead of affecting
you, the autocannon explodes, damaging the attacker
on the side he was trying to hit. He cannot avoid this
damage with a Moo-ve or Steer Clear. If he is eliminat-
ed by the backfire, nobody gets credit for the kill.
Hoof Shots
You may target an opponent’s hooves with a Hoof
Shot card. Play this card simultaneously with any
Attack card. The damage is then applied to the hooves
rather than to the original hit location. Cards
showing hoof damage are placed at the
lower left corner of the cow card.
A player who uses a Moo-ve card
to avoid an opponent’s attack will do
2 points of damage to his own
hooves.
A Battle Cattle’s hooves are
treated as a single unit. They are
destroyed if they take 9 or more
points of damage; this is not con-
sidered a breach. Armor cannot be
used to protect your hooves.
A barnyard brawler whose hooves
are destroyed may no longer use
Ramming, Moo-ve, T-Bone, or Steer Clear
cards, nor may he Escape. However, it may
still shoot – and it can still win!
Moo-ve and Skid
If a player plays a Moo-ve card immediately after
he is attacked, he may discard the Attack card – it
missed! Instead, he takes 2 points of damage to his
hooves (place the Moo-ve card in the “hooves” damage
area). If an opponent plays a Skid Into A Fence card on
him, however, his moo-ve ended in a collision. He
takes 3 points of damage to whichever side the oppo-
nent chooses! Armor can be used to protect against this
damage.
Steer Clear
This card lets you move damage from one side to
an adjacent side, by maneuvering your Battle Cattle to
control where you are hit. You may play more than one
Steer Clear at a time, if you have them, to move the
damage to the opposite side of the cow. Armor can be
used to reduce the damage on the side where it finally
ends up.
Starting the Game
FLAME-
Does 6 Points of 
Damage to Right
FLAME-
THROWER
ARMOR
Stops 3 Points of 
Damage to Right
Check out the 
original Battle Cattle at
www.wingnutgames.com