Battle for Moscow Rules v1.0 
 
eliminated instead. 
Stand Fast: When defending in a Major City 
hex (only), the Defender may convert a DR 
result to a single step loss and no retreat. 
DRL (Defender Retreat and Loss): The 
defending unit must first take a step loss; then, 
if it survives, it must retreat as described for a 
DR result (above). 
 If a full-strength unit takes a loss, flip it 
over to its half-strength side. 
 If a half-strength unit takes a loss, it is 
eliminated (i.e., removed from the map). 
DE (Defender Eliminated): The defending 
unit is entirely eliminated whether it is 
currently at full-strength or half-strength. 
EX (Exchange): First, the defending unit 
takes a step loss as described in a DRL. 
Then the attacking player must lose at least the 
same amount of Strength Points from among 
the attacking units at that Battle. 
 In both cases, if a full-strength unit is 
reduced to half-strength, the amount of the 
loss is computed as the original strength 
minus the reduced Strength. 
For Example: a full-strength German panzer 
unit with 9 Strength Points takes a loss; it is 
flipped to its Reduced-Strength, 4-point side. 
That loss is measured as 5 Strength Points. 
Finally, if the defending unit survived, it must 
retreat as per a DR result. 
 Note that if the defending unit is eliminated 
because it is unable to retreat, the attacking 
player does not match that additional loss. 
AL (Attacker Loss): One attacking unit (of 
the attacker’s choice) takes a step loss, as de-
scribed in the DRL result. It does not retreat, 
however. No attacking units ever retreat in 
Battle for Moscow. 
Combat Example: Here you see two different 
German attacks on a Russian unit. In Figure 1, 
the odds begin at 15 to 4, or 3:1. They are 
reduced one level for the river and another one 
for the defending unit’s fortifications, for final 
combat odds of 1:1. 
 
The attack in Figure 2 is similar, except for the 
addition of the 2-strength German 42nd infantry 
corps – but that makes a big difference! The 
odds are now 17 to 4, or 4:1. These odds are still 
reduced one level for fortifications, but no longer 
for the river (since all of the attackers are no 
longer across river hexsides), thus making the 
final odds 3:1. In addition, the Russian unit 
would be eliminated if forced to retreat since it is 
surrounded by Enemy units and their ZOCs. 
[10.0] REPLACEMENTS 
Both players receive replacements on their 
respective Player Turns (i.e., 
during Phases 1 and 5). The 
number of replacement steps 
received each turn is listed on the 
Game Turn Record Track. 
Each replacement step allows that player to: 
1. Place a new half-strength unit on the map 
(using one that was previously eliminated 
or, for the Russians, one that was not set 
up on the map at the start of the game). 
–OR – 
2. Flip a half-strength unit that is currently 
on the map over to its full-strength side. 
“Friendly Controlled” Defined: Friendly 
controlled means that your units were the 
last ones to have entered that city. 
All cities are owned by the Russians at the 
beginning of the game except for those that 
start occupied by German units. 
“In Communication” Defined: In 
communication, for the Russians, means 
being able to trace a path (of any length) 
from the hex in question to the northeast, 
east, or southeast (red border) edges of the 
map. Excluding the origin hex, this path 
cannot enter a hex containing an enemy unit 
or an Enemy Zone of Control. 
Note that, unlike in some other wargames, 
friendly units do not negate the effects of 
enemy Zones of Control for any reason. 
[10.1] One Step at a Time: You can’t use 
two replacements during the same Player 
Turn to create a new full-strength unit. 
Creating a new full-strength unit from one 
off the map would take two turns of 
replacements (and two total replacement 
steps; one received on each of those turns). 
[10.2] Where Russian Replacements 
Appear: Newly placed Russian units (i.e., 
those being brought in from off the map) 
appear by being placed along the northeast, 
east, and southeast edge of the map, along 
the red border, in any empty hex not in an 
enemy Zone of Control – OR – in any 
empty, friendly controlled city (cities are 
highlighted by white-dashed hexside 
markings) that is in communication with 
the red-bordered east, northeast, or 
southeast edges (at most, one per city; no 
“stacking”). 
 Existing reduced-strength Russian units, 
to be restored to full-strength, must also 
be in communication with those red 
border map edge hexes. 
 Moscow: As an exception, the Russians 
(only) can bring in or restore a unit in 
Moscow even if it is not in communica-
tion with a red bordered map edge hex. 
[10.3] Where German Replacements 
Appear: Replacements and 
communications work similarly for the 
Germans, except that they use and trace to 
the west (black border) edge of the map and 
Moscow has no special properties. 
[10.4] Use ‘Em or Lose ‘Em: If a 
replacement step is not used, it cannot be 
saved for later turns. It is permanently lost. 
[11.0] REINFORCEMENTS 
Only the Russians receive a 
reinforcement unit. It sets up as 
indicated in the Setup Rule (6.0 
#1) on the Game Turn Track. 
Placement of Reinforcements 
This unit is placed on its full-strength side 
in any hex along the northeast, east, or 
southeast (red-bordered) map edge that is 
not occupied by another unit, nor in an 
Enemy ZOC. 
[12.0] MUD 
Turns 3 and 4 are “mud” turns (others are 
“clear” and have no effect). On mud turns, 
the following special mud rules apply: 
[12.1] Mud Effect on Movement: All 
movement, except Russian Rail Movement, 
is reduced to one hex per Phase. 
[12.2] Mud Effect on Combat: The 
Combat Strengths of Panzer and Tank 
units are totaled and then halved when 
attacking (only, not when defending). 
Retain fractions when halving (e.g., half 
of 9 is 4.5). The Strength of Infantry units is 
unaffected. 
For Example: In the previous Figure 2, if it were 
a mud turn, the three German units would be 
reduced to a total Combat Strength of 12.5 (i.e., 
losing 4.5 from the Panzer). That would make 
the odds 3:1 before adjusting for terrain effects. 
Note that if an Exchange combat result 
occurs on a mud turn, the attacker’s losses 
are based on the units’ printed strengths, 
not their halved values for the mud. 
Battle 
for 
Moscow 
 
Table of Contents 
[1.0] INTRODUCTION ......................1 
[2.0] GENERAL COURSE OF PLAY..1 
[3.0] GAME EQUIPMENT.................1 
[4.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY...............2 
[5.0] HOW TO WIN..........................2 
[6.0] SETTING UP THE GAME.........2 
[7.0] ZONES OF CONTROL..............2 
[8.0] MOVEMENT............................2 
[9.0] COMBAT .................................3 
[10.0] REPLACEMENTS...................4 
[11.0] REINFORCEMENTS...............4 
[12.0] MUD ......................................4 
[13.0] GAME BALANCE.........COVER 
[14.0] GAME CREDITS ..........COVER 
[15.0] DEVELOPERS NOTES..COVER 
 
[0.0] USING THESE RULES 
New gaming terms, when they are 
initially defined, appear in dark red 
lettering for quick referencing. 
The instructions for this game are 
organized into major “Rules” sections as 
shown in large green CAPS font and 
represented by the number to the left of 
the decimal point (e.g., rule 4.0 is the 
fourth rule). These rules generally explain 
the game’s components, procedures for 
play, the game’s core systems and mech-
anics, how to set it up, and how to win. 
With each Rule, there can be “Cases” that 
further explain a rule’s general concept or 
basic procedure. Cases might also restrict 
the application of a rule by denoting 
exceptions to it. Cases (and Subcases) are 
an extension of a Rule shown in the way 
that they are numbered. For example, 
Rule 4.1 is the first Case of the fourth 
Rule; and Rule 4.1.2 is the second Sub-
case of the first Case of the fourth Rule. 
Important information is in red text. 
References to examples of a Rule or Case 
are in blue text and this font. 
Text in shaded boxes, like this, provides 
the voice of the game’s designer, who is 
addressing you to explain an idea or 
concept that is not, itself, a Rule or a 
Case. 
[1.0] INTRODUCTION 
Operation Typhoon was the code name for 
the German Army’s final lunge to capture 
Moscow in late 1941 and is the subject of 
Battle for Moscow. This offensive was 
intended to break the Russian Army and end 
its resistance to German conquest. If 
Operation Typhoon succeeded, it would 
mean the collapse of Russian morale (or so 
the Germans believed). If it failed, it would 
(and did) leave the exhausted Germans open 
to a Russian counteroffensive that would 
push them forever beyond reach of 
Moscow. 
Battle for Moscow is played on a map of 
the former Soviet Union where the battle 
was fought. It uses playing pieces that 
represent the actual military units that 
participated in this campaign. Each player 
represents a General commanding an Army 
Group of troops (for the Germans) or a 
Front of Russian Armies. The individual 
German ground units represent corps (from 
the Latin word “corpus,” meaning body) of 
approximately 25,000 soldiers and what 
was left of their equipment after the long 
drive across western Russia in the summer 
of 1941. The Russian ground units are 
armies of approximately 40,000 men each. 
[2.0] GENERAL COURSE 
OF PLAY 
Battle for Moscow is a two-player game: 
One player assumes the role of the Axis 
(Germany) and the other player assumes the 
role of Russia (the Soviet Union). Each 
player moves his units and executes attacks 
on enemy units in turn, attempting to fulfill 
the game’s Victory Conditions. 
To move from one space (called a “hex” for 
its shape) to another, each unit expends a 
portion of its Movement Allowance. 
Combat is resolved through Battles by 
comparing the total Strength Points of 
adjacent opposing units and expressing the 
comparison as a simplified probability ratio 
(“odds”). A die is rolled, and the outcome 
indicated on the Combat Results Table 
(CRT) is then applied to the units involved. 
[3.0] GAME EQUIPMENT 
Parts Inventory 
● 1 11” x 17” map 
● 1 set of 40 5/8” square game pieces 
● 1 Player Aid sheet (terrain + turns) 
● 1 Rules booklet 
● 1 BattlessonTM sheet 
Not included is one 6-sided die needed for 
resolving battles. 
[3.1] The Game Map: The map portrays 
the area to the west and south of Moscow 
where the German army made their fateful 
dash to capture the Russian capital in late 
1941. A hexagonal grid is superimposed on 
the terrain features on the map. These 
hexagonal spaces (we call them “hexes” for 
short) define units’ positions just like the 
squares of a chessboard. The map also 
shows important terrain such as forests, 
cities, fortifications, rivers, and railroads. 
Explanations of the terrain features are 
found on the Terrain Effects Chart (TEC). 
[3.2] Game Charts & Tables: Various 
game aids are provided for the players in 
order to simplify and illustrate certain game 
functions. These are the Combat Results 
Table (CRT), the Terrain Effects Chart 
(TEC), and the Turn Record Track. They 
are explained where presented in the 
appropriate rules section. 
[3.3] The Playing Pieces: The playing 
pieces represent actual military units that 
fought in this campaign. The numbers and 
symbols on the playing pieces represent the 
strength and type of unit simulated by the 
particular playing piece. The playing pieces 
shall henceforth be referred to as “units.” 
Sample Military Units 
The German Player controls the German 
(field gray / light gray) units. The Russian 
Player controls the other (red / pink) units. 
 
Unit Type Symbols 
 
Infantry: composed primarily of 
infantry divisions 
Shock: infantry divisions with massive 
artillery reserves 
Panzer (Tank, Armor): composed of 
primarily armored divisions 
Unit Size Symbols 
 
Unit Type is either infantry (foot soldiers) 
or armored (German “panzer” or Russian 
“tank”). 
Corps 
Army 
XXX
XXXX
Front
Back
Type
(Panzer)
Combat Strength 
Size
(corps)
ID (46th)
Movement Allowance
(special Panzer move)
Infantry
Shock 
Infantry
Panzer or Tank
Figure 1 
Figure 2 

Combat Strength measures a unit’s value 
in battle as expressed in Strength Points; 
higher numbers are stronger. 
Movement Allowance determines how far 
the unit can move as expressed in 
Movement Points. 
Unit Size and ID (identification) are 
included purely for historical interest and 
have no effect on game play. 
All units have two sides: A full-strength 
(front) side and a reduced-strength (back) 
side (in a different shade of color for easy 
recognition during play) that is half the 
Combat Strength of its full-strength side 
(rounded down). Losses in combat can 
reduce a full-strength unit to a reduced-
strength unit. Replacements can turn a 
reduced-strength unit into a full-strength 
unit. 
The six-sided die, which players 
must provide, is used only with the 
Combat Results Table to determine 
the result of attacks. The die has nothing to 
do with movement of units. 
[4.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
Game Length: There are seven Game 
Turns in the Battle for Moscow. 
Time Scale: Each Game Turn represents 
approximately one-to-two weeks of real 
time, depending on the weather. For 
example, turns 3 and 4 each represent 
approximately two weeks because the mud 
slows down the battle. 
How the Turns Work: Each turn is divided 
into nine parts or “Phases” that are 
performed in the exact order listed below. 
All actions in one phase must be finished 
before the next phase can begin. 
The first four phases are the German 
“Player Turn;” the next four are the 
Russian Player Turn. 
German Player Turn 
1. German Replacement Phase. The 
Germans receive replacements. 
2. German (Special) Panzer Movement 
Phase. All German armor (i.e., panzer) 
units may move. 
3. German Combat Phase. All German 
units may attack. 
4. German Movement Phase. All German 
units may move (including panzers that 
moved in Phase 2). 
Russian Player Turn 
5. Russian Replacement Phase. The 
Russians receive replacements. 
6. Russian (Special) Rail Movement 
Phase. All Russian units that begin this 
Phase on a rail line may move along it. 
7. Russian Combat Phase. All Russian 
units may attack. 
8. Russian Movement Phase. All Russian 
units may move (including those that 
moved by rail in Phase 6). 
Administrative 
9. Housekeeping Phase. Advance the 
Game Turn marker or, if the last turn was 
played, stop and determine the winner. 
[5.0] HOW TO WIN 
The Germans win if they 
control Moscow at the end of 
Game Turn 7. The Russians 
win if they control Moscow 
and any one other city. Any other result 
(i.e., the Germans control every city but 
Moscow) is a draw. “Control” of a hex 
(e.g., Moscow) is defined in Rule 10.0. 
[6.0] SETTING UP THE GAME 
1. Place the Game Turn marker 
on the 1 box of the Game Turn 
Track and the Russian 1st 
Shock Army on the 4 box 
(when it arrives as a 
Reinforcement, see 11.0). 
2. Take the remaining sixteen Russian 
armies and flip them to their reduced-
strength side. Place one of these 
reduced-strength Russian units on each 
hex marked with a red star (). Since all 
Russian units are the same strength, it 
doesn’t matter which unit goes where. 
There should be two Russian units left. 
3. The German Player then sets up one full-
strength German unit on each hex 
containing a black cross (!). The exact 
setup is very important as it determines 
what the Germans are capable of doing 
on Game Turn 1. 
4. The German Player commences the first 
Game Turn starting with his Combat 
Phase*. The game then follows the 
Sequence of Play (as per Section 4.0) 
until the last Game Turn is completed. 
*Since all German units begin at full 
strength and are physically placed in their 
starting positions, the German Player 
receives neither Replacements nor Special 
Movement on Game Turn 1. 
[7.0] ZONES OF CONTROL 
Each unit has a Zone 
of Control (“ZOC”) 
that consists of the six 
hexes surrounding it 
(see diagram), 
including hexes 
occupied by enemy 
units. Enemy Zones 
of Control have important effects on 
movement, combat, and replacements. 
[7.1] Movement Effect: A unit entering an 
enemy Zone of Control (“EZOC”) must 
immediately end its movement for that 
Movement Phase (as per Case 8.3). Units 
may freely leave EZOCs and thus can move 
directly from one hex in an EZOC directly 
to another hex in an EZOC, but must then 
stop. 
[7.2] Combat Effect: Units cannot end 
their retreat in an EZOC; they are 
eliminated if they do. (See Case 9.3.) 
[7.3] Effect on Replacements: Zones of 
Control also affect how a path can be traced 
to allow for Replacements. (See Case 10.3.) 
[8.0] MOVEMENT 
Units are moved during the Movement 
Phases (i.e., Phases 2, 4, 6, and 8) of each 
Game Turn. Movement works essentially 
the same way in each Phase. 
Each unit has a Movement Allowance that 
represents the distance in hexes it can move 
in each eligible Movement Phase, subject to 
Weather and Terrain Effects. (See the 
Player Aid Sheet for these tables.) 
In a Movement Phase, the player moves any 
or all of his units that qualify (i.e., only 
panzers in the Panzer Movement Phase, and 
only Russian units on rail lines in the Rail 
Movement Phase). Units move one at a 
time, from hex to hex, in any direction or 
combination of directions. 
[8.1] Russian Rail Movement: In the Rail 
Movement Phase, any (and only) Russian 
units that start the phase on a rail line can 
spend their Movement Allowance and move 
in accordance with the rest of this rule with 
this exception: They can only move along 
hexes that are connected by a rail line and 
do so at a cost of 1 Movement Point per hex 
regardless of terrain (e.g., a forest hex 
counts as only one hex for movement 
during Russian Rail Movement). 
[8.2] Restrictions: The following 
restrictions apply: 
[8.2.1] Enemy Units: A unit can never 
enter a hex containing an enemy unit. 
[8.2.2] Stacking: A unit can enter a hex 
containing a friendly unit, but there can 
only be one unit in a hex at the end of 
each Phase. 
[8.3] Zone of Control: A unit entering an 
Enemy Zone of Control must immediately 
end its movement for that Movement Phase. 
There is no penalty or effect for leaving an 
Enemy Zone of Control. 
Movement Example: Here are some different 
ways that the German 6th Corps could move. 
The numbers in the illustration show how many 
Movement Points it has spent from its Move-
ment Allowance of four (4), the second number 
along each unit’s bottom, to enter that hex. 
The German 6th Corps can move to hex A or B, 
but must stop immediately because it has 
entered the Enemy Zone of Control exerted by 
the Russian 10th Army (Case 8.3). 
The German 6th Corps can also move to hex C 
and stop because it has used up its entire 
Movement Allowance for that Movement Phase 
(and it must also stop because it has entered an 
Enemy Zone of Control). 
In moving to hex D or E, the German 6th Corps 
has also spent its entire Movement Allowance 
for that turn. Note that hex D is a forest hex, and 
therefore costs two Movement Points to enter 
(as per the Terrain Effects Chart on the Player 
Aid Sheet). 
 
Also note that there is no additional cost in 
Movement Points to cross the river hexsides, as 
in some other wargames. In Battle for 
Moscow, river hexsides only affect combat, 
[9.0] COMBAT 
not 
movement. 
(Phases 3 and 7), all 
ck adjacent enemy 
mpletely voluntary; 
 
nd the 
In each Combat Phase 
frien
tta
dly units may a
units. Attacking is co
units are never compelled to attack. 
A “Battle” is an attack on one enemy unit
by any or all of the attacking player’s unit
that are adjacent to that Battle Hex a
die being cast to determine its outcome. 
First, the attacking player (or “attacker;” 
i.e., 
Player during the Germ
the German 
bat Phas
an 
 
Com
e, and the Russian during hi
Combat Phase) announces all his Battles; 
that is, he declares in advance which enemy
units he will attack and which of his own 
(“friendly”) units will attack them. 
 Once Per Combat Phase: A single unit 
may only attack once per Combat Phase
and a single enemy unit may only
, 
 be 
attacked once per Combat Phase. 
 Battle Commitment: Once all of a 
player’s battles have been announced 
that Combat Phase, the attacking 
for 
player 
can’t change his mind. 
The Battle Sequence 
attles are resolved one at a time in any 
de
B
or
esires. For each 
ence is followed: 
r the attacking player d
Battle, the following sequ
1. Total the Combat Strengths of all the 
attacking units in that Battle. 
2. Divide this total by the Combat Strength 
of the defending unit, dropping any 
remainder (or “fractions”), to get one of 
the odds levels provided on the Combat 
Results Table. 
or Example: An attacker’s 16 total Strength 
oints engage in a Battle against a defending 
unit with a strength
F
P
 of 4. The odds are 4:1 (four 
to one). Note that 15 attacking 4 is only 3:1. 
3. Determine if the combat effects of 
terrain have lowered the odds column. 
4. Roll the die and consult the Combat 
Results Table; cross-index the row of the 
number rolled with the odds column to 
determine the result. 
5. Apply the combat result immediately. 
6. Advance after combat: If the defending 
unit is no longer in its hex (i.e., it has 
been eliminated or forced to retreat), one 
attacking unit may immediately move 
into the defender’s just-vacated hex. 
7.
T
e, if 
 
 Conduct the next pending Battle, if any. 
he Combat Phase is over when all 
previously announced Battles are resolved. 
[9.1] Long Odds: After Step 2, abov
the odds are above 6:1, reduce them to 6:1. 
After Step 3, above, if the odds are below 
1:1, that attack has no effect on either side. 
[9.2] Terrain Effects on Combat: As 
shown on the Terrain Effects Chart, if the 
defending unit is in a forest, major city (i.e.,
Moscow or Tula), or is a Russian unit in a 
fortification hex, reduce the odds by one 
level (e.g., a 4:1 attack becomes a 3:1, a 3:1 
attack becomes 2:1, and so on). 
If all of the attacking units in a Battle are 
across a river from the defending unit, 
reduce the odds by one level. 
All of these terrain effects are cumulative!
For Example: The 
 
 
÷ 5
n 
ex. 
 
sa
Germans are attacking 
Moscow as illustrated. 
During Step 1, the 
combined strength for 
the German attackers is
computed as 16. 
In Step 2, this value is 
divided by the defen-
der’s strength of 5; 16 
In Step 3, terrain effect
odds column is reduced twice: once for the 
defender being in Moscow, and again because 
 reduces to 3:1 odds. 
are checked, and the 
all of the attacking units are across river 
hexsides. Thus, the new (reduced) odds colum
for this battle is 1:1. 
Example #2: The Germans attack a Russian 
unit in Tula; there are two shifts to the left: one 
for the major city and one for the fortification h
[9.3] Combat Results Explanation: These
outcomes can occur during Step 4 of a Bat-
tle as shown on the Combat Results Table: 
NE (No Effect): Nothing happens. 
DR (Defender Retreat): The defending unit 
by the at-
is retreated (i.e., moved) two hexes 
tacking player as follows: 
 Two Hexes: The unit must end up two 
hexes away from the defending hex (i.e., it 
cannot zigzag; each hex of retreat must take 
that unit a hex further from the defending 
hex). 
Avoid EZOCs: If possible, the unit must 
avoid entering an Enemy Zone of Control at 
any ti
me during a retreat. 
 Unavoidable EZOCs: If the unit must 
retreat through a hex or hexes in an EZOC, 
it loses one step. If it is forced to end its 
retreat in an EZOC, it is eliminated. 
No Units: The unit may never retreat into 
or through an enemy-occupied hex, nor
its retreat in a friendly-occupied hex. 
 end 
Or Else: If there is no retreat path which 
tisfies all of these conditions, the unit is 
A
B
C
3, 4
D
E
&