BattleCON
Free Preview Game
Print and Play Rules version 1.3
© 2011 D. Brad Talton Jr.
Art by K. Lin, Z. Crescent, D. Hirajeta, P. Butler, F. 
Fontes.
This document may be reproduced for personal 
use only. This document may not be re-hosted or 
re-uploaded without written permission from 
Level 99 Games.
What is BattleCON?
BattleCON is a standalone game that comes as a 
complete boxed set. There are no random packs to 
buy, no rares, and no chase cards—you get the 
complete game up front in the box. This preview is a 
small taste of the variety and possibility contained in 
the full game. This preview set features a set of 
characters from our upcoming base game, War of 
Indines. 
While you can expand BattleCON with additional 
sets featuring new characters, there is no buy-in to 
collect more powerful cards and no expensive rares to 
chase down—when you get a box, you know exactly 
what you are getting.
War of Indines
Welcome to Indines, a land of mystery, magic, 
wonder, and war. In this game, you will take on the 
roles of several champions of each nation, 
participating in duels to determine their fates and the 
fate of the world as a whole.
Each duel is short and fast-paced, as two 
combatants move across the field attempting to strike 
one another and avoid being struck. Only the one 
whose wits are strongest and whose strategy is surest 
will be able to claim victory.
Gameplay Overview
A single match consists of two or three duels. A 
duel is a complete game, beginning at 20 life points 
and ending with one player reaching 0 life. A single 
duel takes between 10 and 20 minutes, so a match is 
typically between 20 minutes and an hour long.
In the course of a single duel, the goal of both 
players is to reduce their opponents' life totals to zero 
or fewer points. The first to accomplish this is 
declared the winner of the duel.
A duel consists of any number of turns, called 
beats. Each beat is a single pair of cards played from 
each side. These cards are played face-down 
simultaneously, then revealed and activated at once.
Card Overview
There are 3 primary kinds of cards in BattleCON 
games: Characters, Bases, and Styles.
Characters
Characters
 
are 
specific personas that 
you use on the field of 
battle. Each player 
will select a different 
character at the start 
of the game, and must 
use all of the styles 
and bases that are 
associated with that 
specific character.
Each
 
character 
card has the following 
components:
1. Name – The name of the character.
2. Classification – This describes the style and 
general strategy of the character in very simple 
Khadath Says: If you don't feel like 
reading the entire rulebook before 
playing, why not download the 
how-to-play comic at
http://www.battleconnection.com

terms, but has no effect on gameplay.
3. Unique Ability – One or more unique abilities 
that this character possesses. These are staples of 
their personal strategy and are used during 
gameplay.
4. Overdrive Finish Attack – A special attack 
described in the 'Special Actions' rules at the end 
of this document. In your first game or two, you 
won't use these.
5. Strategy – A bonus strategy card is included with 
each character.
Bases
These cards are 
printed with their 
numbers aligned to 
the left and may be 
either unique to a 
character or generic. 
Those that are unique 
to a character have 
that character's picture 
on them. Bases are the 
foundations of an 
attack pair. All bases 
have the following 
parts.
1. Name – The name of the base.
2. Range – This is what distance the attack will 
strike at. Some ranges are expressed as two values 
(ie: 1~4). These ranges target all spaces included 
in the range (so 1~4 would target spaces at range 
1, 2, 3, and 4). Attacks with a range of N/A will 
never hit.
3. Power – This is how much damage the attack will 
do. Attacks with a power of N/A will not do any 
damage.
4. Priority – The speed of the attack. Higher priority 
attacks have the advantage of going first in 
combat—allowing you to stun or escape your 
opponent in many instances.
5. Effects – Special effects that are part of the 
attack. These are explained in more detail later.
Styles
These cards are 
printed with their 
numbers aligned to 
the right and are all 
specific to a certain 
character. Each style 
can be paired with a 
base to form an 
attack pair. A style 
has the following 
parts:
1.
Name – The name of the style. This pairs with the 
name of the base to form the name of the attack. 
For example, a 'Clockwork' style and a 'Strike' 
base combine to form the 'Clockwork Strike' 
attack.
2.
Range Modifier – The range of the attack is 
1. If the base has a variable range like (1~4), 
then the range modifier is added to both sides 
(so 1~4 plus 2 would be 3~6). 
2. If the range modifier is also variable, it adds 
its highest and lowest parts to the highest and 
lowest parts of the base (so 1~4 plus 2~4 
would be 3~8). 
3. If the modifier is variable and the base is not, 
then the base becomes variable (1 plus 1~4 
would be 2~5).
3.
Power Modifier – The power of the attack is 
4.
Priority Modifier – The priority of the attack is 
Effects – These effects are added on to the effects 
of the base, giving the attack additional powers. 
Style effects work the same way as base effects.

Gameplay
BattleCON duels take place in a series of turns, 
called beats. The first player to use his attacks and 
reduce his opponent's life to zero is the winner!
Setup
Both players choose a character. They take all 7 of 
that character's cards (1 character card, 5 styles, and 1 
base), plus a set of generic bases (6 bases), and form a 
starting hand. Players should also find any tokens or 
markers their character uses and place them beside 
their character card or into play as specified by their 
unique abilities.
Place the board between the two players make use 
of paper, a 20-sided die, or whatever else is at hand to 
track each player's life. All players start with 20 life.
Place both players on spaces 2 and 6 respectively, 
so that each character is on its owner's left hand side 
of the board.
Each player finds the two bases and 
two styles with the icons “1” and “2” in 
the bottom left and right. These will form two pairs 
(cards with the same number form a pair), that should 
be placed in discard 1 and discard 2 respectively. 
These cards will not be available at the start of the 
game, but will become available soon. Make sure 
your two discard piles are clearly separated and that 
you know which is which, as they both have very 
important functions (see “step 5: Recycle” for more 
information).
Advanced players can choose which two cards 
they want to have in their discard piles at the game's 
start. The numbers are provided as suggestions to 
help new players start quickly.
Once you have completed these actions and filled 
both discard piles, you are ready to begin the game.
Khadath Says: Before a duel starts, 
both players are allowed to read all 
the cards their opponents possess, as 
well as take a moment to look over 
their own cards. Familiarity with your 
own and your opponents' capabilities 
is the key to victory.
Example Attack Pair: Lure Strike
This attack pair will have 1~6 
range, 3 power, and 2 priority. It 
also has all effects of both cards.

Objective
The objective of each duel is to reduce the 
opponent's life points to zero while preventing your 
life from being reduced. The first player whose life 
points reach zero is eliminated, and the remaining 
player is declared the winner of the duel.
The Base Mechanic
An attack pair is formed by selecting one style and 
one base from the player's hand, and placing those 
face-down in front of him. An attack pair has the 
power, range, and priority of the base, plus the 
modifiers specified on the style, and all the effects of 
both cards. Since there are 5 styles and 7 bases, each 
character has 35 possible unique attacks (and even 
more for characters with tokens!)
Turn Sequence
Every turn of BattleCON is called a 'beat', and 
follows a similar pattern. Each of these steps is done 
by each player simultaneously.
1. Select attack pairs
2. Ante Tokens
3. Reveal attack pairs
4. Execute attacks
Recycle 
Step 1 – Select Attack Pairs
Both players choose one style and one base from 
their hand, then place those cards face down in front 
of them where their opponent can see the backs of the 
cards clearly. Once both players have attack pairs 
placed down in front of them, move on to the next 
step.
Step 2 – Ante Tokens
Many characters' special abilities provide them 
with tokens. These tokens are chosen and spent 
during the ante step, after both players have selected 
beats. A token's exact effect depends on the unique 
ability of the character using it. It is important to 
remember that some effects, such as Kallistar's 
elemental form and Khadath's Gate Trap are not 
tokens, even though tokens are used to track their 
state.
Unless otherwise stated by a character's unique 
ability, tokens are discarded to their own separate 
discard pile, and cannot be retrieved except by the 
effects of that character's styles and bases.
Players may ante tokens in any order, and may 
always ante more tokens (as far as their unique 
abilities allow) but tokens can never be taken away. 
Once both players have elected to pass on adding 
tokens, move on to the next step.
Step 3 – Reveal Attack Pairs
Both players simultaneously flip over their face-
down attack pairs, then activate any Reveal effects 
they have.
At this point, check the priorities of both attacks 
(considering at any modifications provided by tokens, 
styles, and special abilities). If the total priorities tie, 
then a clash occurs. 
CLASH: In a clash, both players must play a new 
base face-down from their hands. They 
simultaneously reveal the played base and put it on 
top of the old one, hiding the effects and stats of the 
original base and forming a new attack. Players then 
check to see if another clash has occurred. If it has, 
continue again as above. If players run out of cards 
during a clash, then they pick up all bases in the 
attack (including the original base) and continue the 
clash. When a clash is resolved, only the top card of 
the clash remains in play, and all cards beneath it are 
returned to the players' hands.
Once any clashes are resolved, the Start of Beat 
effects of both attacks trigger, with the higher priority 
character's effects triggering first. 

If a player has multiple effects to resolve with a 
single trigger (such as having 2 or 3 reveal effects), 
then he chooses which order he activates them. This 
is true for all triggers.
Step 4 – Execute Attacks
The player who has higher priority after reveal 
effects are resolved is called the Active Player, and 
the one with lower priority is called the Reactive 
Player.
The active player activates his attack first by 
performing the following steps:
1.
He performs any Before Activating effects 
listed on his cards. If there are multiple effects, he 
chooses which order to use them.
2.
He checks to see if the opponent is within 
his range. Range is counted in spaces, with the 
space occupied by the player being space zero (so 
adjacent characters are at range 1, and characters 
at the start of a match are at range 4).
3.
If the opponent is in range, then the active 
player resolves any On Hit effects, then the 
opponent takes damage equal to the power of the 
attack, reducing the damage taken by his own 
attack's Soak value (if he has this effect—see 
common effects).
4.
If any damage was done, On Damage 
effects are resolved. Also, if any damage was done, 
the opponent may be stunned. This stun can be 
prevented by an opponent with Stun Guard (see 
the section on Stun, below).
If a player's life is reduced to zero or fewer 
points, the game immediately ends, with the 
remaining player being declared the winner.
6.
Regardless of whether or not the attack hit 
or did damage, the active player resolves any 
After Activating effects.
If the reactive player is not stunned, then he may 
activate his attack by following the same steps as the 
active player. A stunned player skips activation 
entirely, including any Before Activating and After 
Activating effects.
Once both players have resolved their attacks, 
move on the the next step.
Step 5 – Recycle
Both players activate any End of Beat effects 
they possess. If both players have End of Beat effects, 
the active player executes all of his effects first. End 
of Beat effects can be executed by the reactive 
player even if he was stunned.
Finally, both players pick up their second discard 
pile, move their first discard pile into their second 
discard pile, and move the attack pair they just played 
face-up into their first discard pile.
How discard piles shift after the recycle step
Ending the Duel
A duel ends when either player's life drops below 
zero as a result of damage (during step 4 of a beat). 
Other effects than damage cannot reduce a player to 
fewer than 1 life points.
If you are playing a match, then winning the duel 
Khadath Says: It's possible to 
determine exactly what cards are in a 
player's hand by looking at his discard 
pile. Stay informed! You don't have to 
counter moves that your opponent isn't 
able to make!
Khadath Says: If you can predict the 
priority of your opponent's moves well 
enough, you can set up a clash to cut 
off their best options!
Range as calculated from red's position

provides the winner with 1 match point. The first to 2 
match points wins a standard match (though you can 
play to higher point values if you desire).
Resolving Effects
During the course of the game, you will need to 
resolve many special effects that your attacks have. 
How to resolve these effects is explained in detail 
here.
There are two kinds of effects, triggered effects 
and passive effects. 
Passive effects are always active from the time 
the attack is revealed until the end of the beat. For 
example, Khadath's Snare base states 
'Your gate trap marker cannot be 
moved during this beat'. 
An effect such as this does not have any timing or 
activation. It is always considered to be active, and its 
instructions should be obeyed by both players at all 
times.
Triggered effects have two parts, a trigger, and an 
effect. An example of a triggered effect might be 
'Before Activating: Move 1 or 2 spaces forwards.' 
This means that the effect is triggered and 
resolved during the Before Activating step (during 
step 4 of the turn). If a player controls multiple 
triggered effects, then he chooses what order to 
activate them. All triggered effects are mandatory
—you must use them when they trigger.
Movement
Many effects will cause characters to move. The 
only way to move on the board is by these effects or 
by the unique abilities of characters.
Movement will be specified by triggered effects or 
a character's unique abilities in the form of effects 
such as 
“After Activating: Move 1, 2, or 3 spaces 
forwards or backwards.” 
Movement effects are mandatory. If an effect 
says 'move 1 or 2 spaces forwards', then the player 
must move either 1 space forwards or 2 spaces 
forwards. He cannot choose to remain where he is.
If an effect specifies 'Move up to 2 spaces 
forwards or backwards', then the player has the option 
to choosing a movement of zero (which is less than 2) 
and remaining stationary. Negative movement is 
never allowed.
Forwards movement brings you closer to your 
opponent. Backwards movement brings you 
further away. This means that 'forwards' and 
'backwards' mean different directions, depending on 
which side of your opponent you are on.
When moving, you hop over opponents, and do 
not count the spaces they occupy against your 
movement. See the example below.
Example: Cadenza uses a 'Clockwork Dash' 
which moves him one, two, or three spaces forwards. 
He declares that he is moving three spaces, and 
begins his move one space away from Kallistar. His 
first move puts him adjacent to her. His second move 
causes him to switch sides, and his third carries him 
one more space past. He finishes his movement on the 
opposite side of her, at range 2.
If a player cannot complete a backwards move 
due to the presence of a wall, then he moves as far as 
possible and stops. The same holds true for a player is 
moving forwards against a player who is adjacent to a 
wall. The presence of walls may preclude movement 
entirely. In this case, movement is ignored.
Stun and Stun Guard
All attacks have the potential to stun opponents 
when they hit. A stunned opponent is unable to react 
with an attack of his own. Thus, in order to score hits 
a player must either be fast enough to strike first, 
maneuverable enough to avoid damage, or defensive 
enough to prevent stun.
A stun occurs whenever a player takes damage 
greater than his Stun Guard value. Attacks that have 
no Stun Guard on them are understood to have a 
Khadath Says: Don't forget that 
your Dash prevents opponents from 
hitting you if you change sides! Use 
this to escape from bad situations 
and avoid unnecessary damage!

Stun Guard of zero. Here are a few examples that 
you can follow along with using your own cards. All 
of these examples ignore range and movement (in 
many of the examples, Kallistar would be able to 
escape by moving Cadenza out of range, but this is 
ignored for the sake of explanation).
Example 1: Cadenza and Kallistar are dueling. 
Kallistar uses a 'Blazing Strike' (4 priority) and 
Cadenza uses a 'Battery Drive' (3 priority). Kallistar 
will go first. She hits Cadenza for 4 damage. Because 
Cadenza has no Stun Guard or Soak effects, he takes 
4 damage and is stunned. He will not be able to use 
the movement effect on his Drive base, but he can still 
utilize the effect on his Battery style, since it is an 
End of Beat effect and not prevented by stun.
Example 2: Cadenza uses 'Clockwork Drive' 
(priority 1, Soak 3) and Kallistar uses 'Ignition 
Grasp' (priority 4). Kallistar will hit first, dealing 3 
points of damage to Cadenza. Cadenza has Soak 3, 
which reduces the damage he takes by up to 3 points. 
Thus, he takes 0 damage. Because he has not taken 
any damage, he is able to retaliate and score 6 
damage on Kallistar.
Example 3: Cadenza uses 'Mechanical Strike' 
(priority 1, Stun Guard 4) and Kallistar in uses 
'Volcanic Grasp' (priority 5). Kallistar will hit first, 
as usual, and deal 2 points of damage. Cadenza takes 
the damage, but because the damage is lower than or 
equal to his Stun Guard value, he is not stunned. He 
can hit Kallistar back for 6 damage.
Example 4: Cadenza uses 'Mechanical Shot' 
(priority 0, Stun Guard 2) and Kallistar uses 'Flare 
Strike' (priority 4). Kallistar will hit first, dealing 7 
damage to Cadenza. Cadenza takes the damage, and 
since it is higher than his stun guard value, he is 
stunned, and will not activate his attack.
Example 5: Cadenza uses an extremely defensive 
'Clockwork Strike' (priority 0, Soak 3, Stun Guard 4). 
Kallistar uses a 'Caustic Grasp' (priority 6, in 
elemental form). Kallistar will go first, dealing 3 
damage to Cadenza. Cadenza's soak absorbs the 
damage, so he takes nothing. However, Kallistar's 
Caustic style has a special effect 'On Hit, Elemental 
Form: The opponent is stunned.' Cadenza is stunned 
because of the effect, and will not activate his attack. 
This is called an auto-stun effect, and can stun 
regardless of the opponent's Stun Guard and Soak.
Example 6: Cadenza uses the same 'Clockwork 
Strike' and Kallistar uses his same 'Caustic Grasp'. 
This time, however, Cadenza decides to ante one of 
his Iron Body tokens during the Ante phase. This ante 
gives him the effect of Stun Immunity due to his 
unique ability. Now when Kallistar hits first, her 
Caustic effect will attempt to stun Cadenza. Cadenza 
is immune to stun, however, so no effect or damage 
can prevent him from executing his Clockwork Strike 
for 7 damage.
Common Effects
Soak – A number will be specified (ie: Soak 3, 
Soak 1, Soak 2). Whenever the player would take 
damage this turn, he reduces the damage taken by the 
amount specified. Multiple soaks effects stack 
together (so Soak 3 + Soak 1 = Soak 4). Soak is 
always a passive effect.
Stun Guard – A number will be specified (ie: 
Stun Guard 5, Stun Guard 3). Whenever the player 
takes damage this turn, he is not stunned unless the 
total damage taken this turn is greater than his stun 
guard rating. (So a player with Stun Guard 3 who 
takes 3 or fewer points of damage this turn is not 
stunned). Multiple Stun Guards stack together (so 
Stun Guard 2 + Stun Guard 5 = Stun Guard 7). Stun 
Guard is always a passive effect. Attacks with no Stun 
Guard specified have an implied Stun Guard of 0.
Glossary
Forwards – The direction that would bring you 
closer to the opponent.
Backwards – The direction that would carry you 
further away from the opponent.
Stunned – A state caused by taking damage or by 
specific effects. A stunned character cannot react to 
his opponent's attacks during step 4 of a beat.
Jargon
Fighting games use a very specific language to 
describe the kind of maneuvers that characters can 
make. While these terms don't appear in the rules text 
of cards, they are useful for discussing and analyzing 
Khadath Says: Stun Guard is only 
useful if you are still alive to 
retaliate! Make sure you keep your 
life points high to make use of this 
defensive countermeasure! 

strategies.
Advance – An attack that closes distance between 
characters, creating a more favorable situation for 
close range fighters.
Corner Trap – When a character has his or her back 
to a wall, it is more difficult to perform escapes. 
Some characters are especially good at capitalizing on 
Corner Traps.
Counterescape – A move that is intended to predict 
an escape and prevent the opponent from escaping, or 
simply to punish the escape.
Counteroffensive – A move that is intended to 
respond to an opponent's offensive attack by utilizing 
a block-and-counter technique. Cadenza is a character 
who specializes in counteroffensives.
Escape – A move that brings the character out of his 
opponent's preferred range. The opposite of an 
advance.
Off the Line – Used to describe the first attack in a 
match. Some characters have a wide variety of 
options 'off the line' while others are more limited in 
what they can do.
Set Up – A situation that makes a certain attack 
possible or more likely to succeed. For example, 
using a Drive to move into close range would set up 
for a Strike during the next beat.
Khadath Ahemusei
Class: Trapper
Unique Ability: Gate Trap
Khadath's ability to control terrain and alter his 
range give him the tools to evade opponents without 
moving. Meanwhile he sets traps in the form of his 
portals, which he lures enemies into and punishes 
them for crossing.
Kallistar Flarechild
Class: Opportunist
Unique Ability: Elemental Form
Kallistar is a risk-return character that rewards 
high-stakes offensives with exceptional damage 
payoff. Because of her life loss while in elemental 
form, Kallistar's player is pressured to make a strong, 
relentless offensive, which can serve to make her 
predictable to opponents if not tempered well with her 
low-risk mode. A savvy player switches between 
modes often to accommodate the situation he finds 
himself in.
Cadenza
Class: Juggernaut
Unique Ability: Iron Body
Cadenza is a heavy melee fighter who is able to 
wade through damage and wreck havoc at close 
range. His styles give him an unconditional 
opportunity to advance on enemies, as well as the 
chance to pull enemies in and to deal damage based 
on the amount of damage he absorbs in a turn.
Hikaru Sorayama
Class: Universalist
Unique Ability: Geomantic Assault
Hikaru is not stellar in any single area of combat
—until he starts spending tokens. With his elemental 
tokens, Hikaru's attacks can stand up to the most 
potent abilities of opponents. Since tokens are limited, 
however, Hikaru must manage them carefully, and 
make efforts to recover them whenever possible.
Because of his lack of defensive ability, Hikaru 
relies on priority to deal damage, and must be wary of 
enemies who stack defenses and counteroffensives.
General Questions
What happens when a character with Stun 
Immunity is hit by an automatic stun effect?
When a character with stun immunity (such as 
Khadath using his snare) is hit by an auto-stun effect 
(ie: “the opponent is stunned” such as an elemental 
Kallistar with her Caustic style), then Stun Immunity 
prevents the stun. This is the only case where an auto-
stun effect can fail.
If I hit my opponent for 0 damage, but he does 
not have any Soak or Stun Guard effects, is he still 
stunned?

No. A character can only be stunned by damage or 
automatic stun effects. A hit for zero damage is still a 
hit, but does not stun opponents or trigger On 
Damage effects.
If I must move forwards or backwards, but my 
forward or backward movement is blocked, can I 
choose to move towards the wall so that I remain 
in the same place?
No. If you can choose to make a legal, unblocked 
movement, then you must take that option. The only 
time movement is canceled is when there is no legal 
movement option granted by the effect.
Will an attack with a range of 2 or more hit an 
opponent closer than that range?
No. Attacks only hit the exact space or spaces 
listed. An attack with range 2 will ONLY hit the 
second space out from your character.
Can stats be reduced below zero?
Range and power cannot be reduced below zero, 
though Priority can. An attack with a range of 0 
cannot hit anything, since it only reaches the space 
occupied by the attacker. An attack can still hit even 
with a Power of zero.
Character-Specific Questions
Khadath
What happens to Khadath if he is standing on 
his own trap?
Khadath is never affected by his own trap. His 
trap will only penalize opponents, as stated on his 
character card, and Khadath is not considered his own 
opponent.
Cadenza
What is the advantage to Anteing Cadenza's 
tokens versus spending them when he takes 
damage?
Cadenza can Ante a token to gain Stun 
Immunity, or spend one at the moment he takes 
damage to gain Stun Guard ∞. The difference 
between these is subtle. See examples 5 and 6 in the 
section on Stun for an explanation of how Stun 
Immunity is better than Stun Guard.
In this preview game, Cadenza will only need to 
worry about anteing his tokens against Kallistar, as a 
preventative measure in case she uses her Caustic 
Style. In the full game, there are several other 
characters that have automatic stun effects. So in 
matches against Khadath and Hikaru, Cadenza only 
needs to spend these tokens at the moment he takes 
damage.
Hikaru
What happens if I use Hikaru's Geomantic 
style with my Wind token to create a priority tie 
during Reveal?
In this case, the player who originally had the 
highest priority continues to have priority. If the 
priority boost causes priority to switch hands (ie: 
Hikaru's priority becomes higher), then this changes 
the order of execution and the Active Player.
Kallistar
What happens if I have 1 life at the start of a 
turn in elemental form?
Normally, Kallistar loses life each turn in 
elemental form. However, characters can never die by 
their own effects, so Kallistar does not lose life in this 
case.
What if I hit someone with Stun Guard or Soak 
using my Caustic Style? Are they still stunned?
Yes. An effect that says 'the opponent is stunned' 
always stuns, except in the case that the opponent has 
Stun Immunity.

Special Actions
The two special action cards are used in the complete 
game. They are slightly more complex than the rest of 
the game rules, and are best introduced once both 
players have played one or two duels and grasped all 
the basic concepts of the game.
Setup
Each player takes one Special Action card at the start 
of the duel. The special action card looks identical to 
a style on its reverse face.
Usage
During any beat, the player may play his Special 
Action style in conjunction with a base from his hand, 
just like a normal attack pair. During the Reveal 
step, but before any reveal effects, the special 
action is executed. 
The effect that is executed changes depending on 
which base is paired with the Special Action. For 
example, pairing Special Action + Burst would 
activate the Pulse effect. Pairing Special Action + 
Grasp would activate the cancel effect.
After a Special action is used, it is removed from 
the game until the end of the duel.
Pulse
Pulse is the ultimate defensive tactic, and triggers if 
you pair the Special Action with a Burst or Dash.
When a pulse is revealed, the opponent's entire action 
(even another special action) is negated immediately. 
They simply do not take a turn. After this, the player 
using the pulse pushes his opponent any number of 
spaces backwards, then moves himself any number of 
spaces backwards.
If both players pulse simultaneously, they both push 
each other back as far as possible.
Your discard pile does not cycle the turn when a 
pulse is used. The opponent still discards his attack 
pair as normal.
Cancel
Cancel allows you to choose your attack after looking 
at what your opponent has played. It triggers if you 
pair a Special Action with a Grasp or Shot (or if you 
try to activate a Finish and your life total is too high). 
Return the base played with cancel to your hand, 
remove cancel from the game, then select a new 
attack pair and play it. Any tokens you spent during 
the ante phase apply to your new attack. The pair 
played with cancel will trigger a clash if it ties your 
opponent's pair.
If both players cancel simultaneously, they must both 
choose new attacks secretly. 
Finish
If Special Action is paired with a Strike, Drive, or a 
character's unique base (Snare / Press / Spellbolt / 
Palm Strike), then the characters's Overdrive Finish is 
executed instead of a normal attack. A character 
must have 7 or fewer life points to use an 
Overdrive Finish. If a player attempts an Overdrive 
Finish, but his or her life total is too high, then the 
finish becomes a Cancel instead.
The overdrive finish attack varies for each character, 
and is listed on the Character card. This attack 
replaces a character's entire attack pair (ie: the 
base played with the Special action has no effect 
except to trigger the Finish).
Overdrive finishes always win priority ties without 
clashing. If two finishes clash, then they both 
downgrade into cancels.
Your discard pile does not cycle the turn when a 
finish is used. Return the base played with the 
finish to your hand instead.

Special Thanks
Thank you for checking out Battle Connection and for 
playing the game! If you have any comments, ideas, 
or bugs to report, please email them to me at 
level99games@gmail.com
If you would like to report your play experience with 
the game and be listed as a playtester in the rules 
book, please send some play logs and reports to me as 
well. The more input I get on the game, the more I 
can tweak it to be balanced for the release.
Check out www.battleconnection.com for information 
on how you can get the full version of the game, as 
well as strategies, forums, and additional print and 
play goodies!
Thanks for playing, and I hope to hear from you soon!
- D. Brad Talton Jr.
BattleCON designer, Level 99 Games President
Pre-Order Your Copy!
BattleCON is coming out soon, and you can 
score special pre-order bonuses by getting a copy 
from the Level 99 Games Store! Check out 
www.battleconnection.com to links to pre-order the 
full game!
The complete game features 18 characters, 
Multiplayer modes, the arenas variant, and more! A 
single game box is all you need to run a tournament!
Check out www.battleconnection.com for even 
more character information and downloads!
Character Teaser
Here's a sneak peek at some of the characters in the 
full version of BattleCON: War of Indines.
Magdelina Larington – A priestess who channels 
spirits. As the battle goes on, she can strengthen her 
trance to gain more and more power, becoming an 
unstoppable force if not defeated fast enough.
Demitras Denigrande – A vampire who is extremely 
mobile and quick, and fights by gathering up power 
with each hit. Though his attacks are weak, they build 
up power to allow him to unleash devastating attacks.
Lixis Ran Kanda – A biomancer who uses poisons 
and a deadly spear in combat. Lixis is able to force 
opponents to discard extra cards, cutting off their 
options and negating their special powers.
Vanaah Kalmor – A scythe-wielding paladin who 
predicts an opponent's priority and takes advantage of 
it. She excels at using powerful single strikes at 
strategic intervals to cut down foes.
Rukyuk Amberdeen – A bounty hunter who utilizes 
a pair of pistols loaded with specialized custom 
ammunition in order to capitalize on his opponents' 
weaknesses.
Kehrolyn Ross – A shape-changing homunculus who 
alters her natural weaponry in order to adapt to the 
situation at hand and gain additional stats.
Regicide Heketch – A 300-year old assassin who 
gains power by retreating into the shadows, then 
unleashes it in a torrent of deadly strikes before 
vanishing again.
Seth Cremmul – As an oracle with the ability to see 
into the future and alter fate, Seth is able to predict his 
opponents' every move. With correct predictions, he 
is able to shut down enemy strategies and corner 
them.
Disclaimer
This print and play preview is of a work under 
construction—the design and layout of these 
components is not indicative of the final product.
This document, the attached cards, and all 
designs, rules, and illustrations therein are property 
of Level 99 Games LLC, and are not to be 
redistributed without express written permission of D. 
Brad Talton Jr.