TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
RULEBOOK
AN EXPANSION FOR “WAR OF THE RING”
BY ROBERTO DI MEGLIO, MARCO MAGGI AND FRANCESCO NEPITELLO

2 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
2 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
READ THIS FIRST!
Battles of the Third Age is the first expansion to War 
of the Ring, the board game based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s 
masterpiece The Lord of the Rings. It is not a complete 
game: You need a copy of War of the Ring to play.
Battles of the Third Age provides a new set of figures, 
cards, and a game board to continue the gaming 
experience offered by War of the Ring in two new and 
exciting ways:
- Twilight of the Third Age is a set of supplemental 
rules introducing new Event cards, characters, and 
units that add a new level of detail and variety to 
every game of War of the Ring.
- Battles of the War of the Ring is a completely new 
game system that recreates in greater detail the 
most important battles described in The Lord of the 
Rings. New rules, cards, and game boards let two 
players engage in the Battle for Rohan and the 
Battle for Gondor. As specified in the relevant 
sections of this booklet, you will need figures and 
dice from a copy of War of the Ring to use the new 
set of rules.
CONTENTS OF THE 
GAME
The Twilight of the Third Age expansion uses the 
following components:
• this rulebook
• 4 Character Cards (Galadriel, The Balrog, The 
Witch-King: Chief of the Ringwraiths, and Sméagol)
• 3 Faction Cards (The Hillmen of Dunland, The 
Corsairs of Umbar, and The Ents of Fangorn)
• 14 Event Cards (7 for the Free Peoples, 7 for the 
Shadow)
• 2 Sméagol Hunt Tiles
• 1 Sméagol Companion Counter
• 1 Sméagol Event Card
• 41 New Figures:
• Galadriel
• The Balrog
• The Witch-King: Chief of the Ringwraiths
• The Hillmen of Dunland (12 figures)
• The Corsairs of Umbar (6 figures)
• The Ents of Fangorn (8 figures)
• Siege Engines (6 “Towers” and 6 
“Trebuchets”)
The remaining components are used only with the 
Battles of the War of the Ring rules, and are therefore 
not necessary to play Twilight of the Third Age.
All rules and game elements introduced in Twilight 
of the Third Age are meant to be added as a whole 
to every War of the Ring game. Using only separate 
elements is certainly possible, but can alter the optimal 
game balance.
1. SETUP
To start the game, use the normal setup explained 
in the Game Setup chapter of the War of the Ring 
rulebook, with the following additions:
• At the beginning of the game, put the two 
“Sméagol” tiles in the Hunt Pool, in addition to 
the normal Hunt Tiles.
• Twilight of the Third Age introduces two new sets 
of Event cards, seven for the Free Peoples player 
and seven for the Shadow player. Three cards in 
each set (marked by a number followed by the 
letter “b”) bear the same card number as a card 
previously included in the War of the Ring game. 
Before playing with the expansion rules, be sure to 
replace each of these War of the Ring cards with the 
corresponding new card (this is necessary since the 
new rules included in the expansion make the old 
cards obsolete). The remaining eight cards should 
simply be added to the appropriate Event decks 
(two cards each for the Free Peoples Character 
and Strategy decks, and two each for the Shadow 
Character and Strategy decks).
2. NEW CHARACTERS
Four new characters are included in Twilight of the 
Third Age. Galadriel, the Balrog, and a new version of 
the Witch-king are introduced, featuring a new figure 
each. A fourth character, Sméagol, is included without 
a figure, since he is always part of the Fellowship of 
the Ring.
All rules necessary to play these new characters are 
explained here in detail, and summarized on each of 
the appropriate Character cards.
SMÉAGOL,
TAMED WRETCH
In the books, Gollum is spotted 
following the Fellowship as 
the heroes leave the depths of 
Moria, but he joins the Ring-
bearers only when Frodo and 
Sam are finally alone on their 
quest.
What could have happened if 
this wretched figure was tamed 
by the Companions of the 
Ring before the breaking of the 
Fellowship? The following rules 
explore this possibility.
• Level X
This means that Sméagol’s level is equal to that of the 
highest-level Companion in the Fellowship.
• Leadership 0
HOW SMÉAGOL ENTERS THE GAME
When you draw a Sméagol tile from the Hunt Pool, 
the Hunt Damage is 0 and Sméagol enters play as a 
special Companion always serving as the Guide of the 
Fellowship.
Place the Sméagol Character card in the Guide of the 
Fellowship box, and place the Sméagol Companion 
Counter with the other Companion Counters. Remove 
the drawn Sméagol tile from the game. All of Sméagol’s 
special abilities are immediately applied. 
The Sméagol
Event Card
The Sméagol
Tiles
0BF
WE SHALL
GET IT
Play on the table.
If Gollum is the Guide, 
discard We Shall Get It after 
a Hunt tile has been drawn 
to draw another Hunt tile. 
Apply the effects of the 
second tile, and place the ﬁ rst 
tile back in the Hunt Pool.
Front
Back

TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE • 3
TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE • 3
Note: Sméagol is not Gollum. Game events that require 
Gollum’s presence or card effects that are modified 
if Gollum is in play are not affected by the presence 
of Sméagol. If Gollum enters play before Sméagol, 
Sméagol is not played when a Sméagol tile is drawn. 
Discard the tile and draw another one.
SMÉAGOL IN PLAY
• Sméagol acts within the Fellowship as any other 
Companion, except that he is always the Guide. He 
adds one to the number of Companions for purposes 
of the number of Action Dice that the Shadow player 
may place in the Hunt Box, and he may be taken 
as a Hunt casualty in the same way as any other 
Companion.
• Sméagol has “Level X”: This means that Sméagol’s 
level is equal to that of the highest-level Companion 
in the Fellowship.
• If Sméagol is eliminated in any way, the We Shall Get 
It Shadow Event card immediately enters play.
• If at any time Sméagol is the only Companion in the 
Fellowship, replace Sméagol with Gollum. We Shall 
Get It does not enter play. 
• If a Sméagol tile is drawn after Sméagol leaves the 
game, discard the tile and draw another one. 
• Discard Sméagol if he is separated from the 
Fellowship or the Fellowship is declared in a Free 
Peoples City or Stronghold.
• If Sméagol is no longer in play, Gollum can enter 
play normally.
If Sméagol is guiding the Fellowship:
• Use a Character die result to declare the Fellowship.
• If the Fellowship is declared in Minas Morgul 
or Morannon, it immediately enters Mordor.
• Declaring in a Free Peoples City or Stronghold 
in this way does not remove one point of 
Corruption from the Ring-bearer.
• If a Sméagol Hunt tile is drawn, the Hunt damage 
is considered to be 0. Place the Sméagol tile back in 
the Hunt Pool.
LADY GALADRIEL,
KEEPER OF NENYA
Lady Galadriel, Queen of 
the Golden Wood, is one of 
the most powerful Elves left 
in Middle Earth, but as the 
Keeper of Nenya, the Ring of 
Adamant, she decided a long 
time ago to hide from Sauron. 
What could have happened if 
Galadriel more openly used 
her power to help the Free 
Peoples, thus revealing herself 
to the Eye? The following rules 
explore this possibility.
• Level 0
• Leadership 2
• Add one die to the Free Peoples Action 
Pool.
HOW GALADRIEL ENTERS THE GAME
If Sauron or the Elves are “At War,” and Gandalf the 
White is not in play, use a Muster die to play Lady 
Galadriel in Lórien.
GALADRIEL IN PLAY
Lady of Light: Whenever a normal (grey) Eye tile is 
drawn from the Hunt Pool, use an Elven Ring token 
to cancel its effects and draw another Hunt tile instead. 
Remove that Eye tile permanently from play. No more 
than one Elven Ring can be used during the same turn 
for this or any other purpose.
Valour of the Elven People: You can recruit in Lórien 
even if the Stronghold is under siege.
• Lady Galadriel is considered a Level 3 Companion 
for all Combat card effects.
• Lady Galadriel can never leave Lórien and is removed 
from play if Lórien becomes controlled by the 
Shadow player.
• While Gandalf the White is in play, Lady Galadriel 
does not add one die to the Free Peoples Action 
Pool.
THE WITCH-KING, CHIEF OF 
THE RINGWRAITHS
In the books, after the defeat 
of the Nazgûl at the Fords 
of Bruinen, the Witch-king 
is raised to a new demonic 
stature and returns as the 
Black Captain of Sauron, 
guiding the main assault 
against Minas Tirith. What 
could have happened if Sauron 
again assigned the Chief of 
the Ringwraiths to the task of 
searching for the One Ring, 
instead of conserving him for 
the war? The following rules explore this possibility.
• Level (Inf.)
• Leadership 2
• Add one die to the Shadow Action Pool.
HOW THE WITCH-KING ENTERS THE GAME
If the Fellowship is not in a Free Peoples stronghold, 
and The Witch-King: The Black Captain is not in play, 
play the Witch-king in the region with the Fellowship, 
using a Muster die.
THE WITCH-KING IN PLAY
Shadow of Despair: If the Witch-king is in play, each 
Nazgûl in the region with the last known position of 
the Fellowship (including the Witch-king) grants one 
Hunt re-roll.
He Sees, He Knows: If the Fellowship is declared in a 
region which is not a Free Peoples Stronghold, you may 
immediately move the Witch-king to the region with 
the Fellowship.
• All Event and Combat cards referring to “the Witch-
king” can be used in conjunction with The Witch-
King: Chief of the Ringwraiths.
• If The Witch-King: Chief of the Ringwraiths is or has 
been brought into play, you cannot bring The Witch-
King: The Black Captain into play, and vice versa.
2/3

4 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
THE BALROG OF MORIA, 
EVIL OF THE ANCIENT 
WORLD
The Balrog is a survivor of 
ancient wars, a demon hiding 
under the mountains since a 
forgotten time. This slave of 
Morgoth could have unleashed 
terror upon the land, but 
instead met his fate at the hands 
of Gandalf the Grey on the 
bridge of Khazad-dûm. What 
could have happened if this 
minion of evil had the time to 
fully spread his influence into 
the heart of Middle Earth? The 
following rules explore this possibility.
• Level 0
• Leadership 3
• Add one die to the Shadow Action Pool.
HOW THE BALROG ENTERS THE GAME
If the Witch-king is not in play, play the Balrog and one 
Sauron unit (Regular or Elite) in Moria using a Muster 
die.
When you play the Balrog, advance the Elf, Dwarf, and 
North Nation one step on the Political Track.
THE BALROG IN PLAY
Fire and Shadow: If the Fellowship is revealed or 
declared, and as a result has moved through, is moving 
from, or is moving into a region occupied by the Balrog, 
draw a Hunt tile and apply its effects, ignoring any 
Reveal icon. If the drawn tile is an Eye, eliminate the 
Balrog and the Guide of the Fellowship (but discard the 
Eye tile without effect if Gollum is the Guide). 
Flame of Udûn: Add +2 to the Combat Strength of a 
Shadow Army with the Balrog. 
• The Balrog is not considered a Minion for the 
purpose of playing Gandalf the White. 
• While the Witch-king is in play, the Balrog does not 
add one die to the Shadow Action Pool.
3. FACTIONS OF THE WAR 
OF THE RING
Twilight of the Third Age introduces a brand new 
element to the game: factions. Factions are special unit 
types (previously represented in the game by Event 
cards or other mechanics) represented by new figures 
and following new rules. The three factions included 
are the Hillmen of Dunland and the Corsairs of Umbar 
for the Shadow player, and the Ents of Fangorn for the 
Free Peoples player.
Factions do not start the game in play, but must be 
mustered in a way similar to characters. All rules 
necessary to play factions are explained here in detail, 
and summarized on each of the appropriate faction 
cards.
THE HILLMEN OF DUNLAND
The wild men 
of Dunland see 
the Horse-lords 
of Rohan as the 
usurpers of their 
rightful homeland, 
and it was easy 
for Saruman to 
exploit this enmity 
to his advantage before the invasion of Westfold. While 
resolute in their hatred, the Dunlendings fear their 
enemies deeply and therefore are not very reliable in 
battle.
Dunlendings are easily mustered in great numbers, but 
are weaker in combat than Regular units.
HOW THE DUNLENDINGS ENTER THE GAME
If the Isengard Nation is “At War,” bring the Hillmen 
of Dunland faction into play by using one Muster die. 
Place two Dunlendings in each of the two Dunland 
settlements.
USING THE DUNLENDINGS
Death to the Forgoil!: Use a Muster die to place two 
Dunlendings in an Isengard or Rohan region containing 
a Shadow Army, unless that Army is inside a Stronghold 
under siege.
• Dunlendings are special Shadow (Isengard) Army 
units and can only be mustered using the “Death 
to the Forgoil!” ability. Dunlendings follow all rules 
concerning Shadow Army Regular units, except that 
one hit eliminates two Dunlendings rather than one 
(they still count as one full unit for use with Shadow 
Combat cards requiring removal of units, e.g., 
Onslaught or Relentless Assault).
• If there are both Dunlendings and other types of 
units in an Army, the Shadow player decides whether 
to remove one Regular unit, reduce one Elite unit, 
or remove two Dunlendings as the effect of each hit. 
If there is only one Dunlending unit in an Army, it 
cannot be taken as a casualty until it is the last unit 
remaining.
THE CORSAIRS OF UMBAR
The menace of the 
Corsairs plagued 
Gondor for many 
years, and in the 
books the fear of 
their black sails 
made the Southern 
Fiefs reluctant to 
help Minas Tirith. 
The Corsairs are a powerful ally for Sauron, raiding 
along the coasts of Middle Earth and transporting 
armies to distant shores.
Corsair Ships are used to move Armies between coastal 
regions.
HOW THE CORSAIRS ENTER THE GAME
If the Southrons & Easterlings Nation is “At War,” 
bring the Corsairs of Umbar faction into play by using 
one Muster die. Place two Corsair Ships in Umbar.
Black Ships: Use a Muster die to place one Corsair 
Ship and one Southrons & Easterlings Regular unit in 
Umbar.
• Corsair Ships are not Shadow Army units, and they 
follow special rules.
• Ships are only recruited using the “Black Ships” 
ability if Umbar is controlled by the Shadow player.
• Ships can only enter coastal regions and are kept 
separate from other Shadow units occupying the 
same region.

TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE • 5
• Ships do not count for stacking purposes, and 
are not considered part of an Army. Ships are not 
affected by enemy units.
USING CORSAIR SHIPS
Moving Ships
The Shadow player can move a group of one or more 
Corsair Ships (also called a Fleet) from one coastal 
region to another coastal region up to two regions 
away, using one of the two movements of an Army die, 
as if the Fleet was an Army.
Transporting Armies
• The Shadow player can move an Army from a region 
containing a Ship to any other free region containing 
a Ship using one of the two movements of an Army 
die (or using a Character die, if the Army has a 
Leader).
• The Shadow player can never retreat from a battle 
using Ships.
Fighting with Ships
• The Shadow player can attack with an Army from a 
region containing a Ship to another region with an 
enemy Army and containing a Ship, using one Army 
die (or Character die, if the Army has a Leader). 
• The attacking Army cannot retreat. All Ships in the 
attacked region are eliminated if the attacking Army 
is eliminated.
Note: If you use ships to move Shadow Army units to 
a Stronghold region with a besieged Shadow army in it, 
this is considered as a Siege Relief attack.
• If a Shadow Army in a region containing Ships is 
attacked, all Ships are eliminated if the Shadow Army 
is eliminated or forced to retreat.
• If the Shadow player moves Ships to a region 
controlled by the Free Peoples player, the region 
does not become controlled by the Shadow player.
THE ENTS OF FANGORN
The “Shepherds 
of the Trees” of 
Fangorn are the 
last members 
of an ancient 
race, slowly 
disappearing from 
Middle Earth. 
Enraged by the 
actions of the wizard Saruman, they finally ruined his 
plans by destroying the might of Isengard. The Ents of 
Fangorn are powerful and relentless in their fury, but 
the Companions of the Ring must rouse them in time 
in order for the Ents’ intervention to be fruitful.
Ents are mustered in Fangorn and can move out to 
attack enemies using the Ents Awake Event cards.
HOW THE ENTS ENTER THE GAME
If Saruman is in play and a Companion is in Fangorn, 
bring the Ents of Fangorn faction into play by using 
one Muster die. Place one Ent in Fangorn.
Treebeard: If a Companion is in Fangorn, every time 
the Shadow player uses a Muster die to employ the 
“Voice of Saruman” ability described on the Saruman 
Character card, place one Ent in Fangorn.
• The Ents are not Free People Army units, and 
follow special rules. Ents are only recruited using 
the “Treebeard” ability, or using the three Ents 
Awake cards. Ents are kept separate from other 
units occupying the same region, cannot be 
attacked by enemy units, do not affect enemy 
movement, and do not count for stacking purposes. 
• The presence of Ents in a region does not give 
control of the region to the Free Peoples player.
• The number of Ents in play is limited by the 
counter mix. Once removed, Ents are permanently 
out of the game. If all three of the Ents Awake cards 
have been played, remove all remaining Ents from 
the board.
USING THE ENTS
The Ents of Fangorn can move and attack enemy 
units, but only in conjunction with the three Ents 
Awake Event cards. When an Ents Awake card is 
played by the Free Peoples player, the Ents are 
considered “activated,” and may then be employed 
using the following special rules.
The Entwood
As long as the Ents faction is in play, at least one 
Ent must be left in Fangorn at any time. If there is 
more than one Ent in Fangorn, each Ent in excess of 
one can be used to move or attack, during the same 
activation triggered by the Ents Awake card played. 
This means that a series of movements and attacks can 
be made during the same action, in any desired order, 
as long as there are Ents to take or remove from the 
Entwood.
Movement
To move the Ents, take one Ent from Fangorn and 
place it in a region adjacent to a region already 
containing an Ent. The region must be free of enemy 
units (to attack enemy Armies, see “Attack,” below). 
You can repeat this process as long as there is more 
than one Ent in Fangorn. Following these directions, 
the Ents will form an uninterrupted chain of regions 
originating from and including Fangorn.
Attack
You can attack a Shadow Army adjacent to a region 
containing an Ent. To do so, eliminate one Ent from 
Fangorn and roll five dice, scoring hits on rolls of 
5+. You can repeat this process as long as there is 
more than one Ent in Fangorn. An Ent attack is not a 
normal battle: The Shadow player cannot respond in 
any way to the attack, no Combat cards are played by 
either player, and no terrain features affect the roll.
• Since the Shadow player may move his armies into 
a region containing an Ent, sometimes an Ent can 
be in the same region as a Shadow Army. You can 
attack such an Army normally when the Ents are 
activated, as if the region was simply adjacent to an 
Ent (i.e., by removing one Ent from Fangorn and 
rolling five dice).
• If an Ent attack eliminates all Shadow units in 
Orthanc, or if Orthanc is free of enemy units and 
an Ent is moved there, remove Saruman from the 
game.

6 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
6 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
Example: There are two Ents in Fangorn, and a 
Shadow Army comprised of three Regular units 
occupies the adjacent Fords of Isen. The Free 
Peoples player plays one Ents Awake card to place 
two Ents in Fangorn and activate the Ents. There 
are now four Ents in Fangorn. The Free Peoples 
player decides to start the activation by attacking 
the Shadow Army in the Fords of Isen right away, 
so he removes one Ent from Fangorn and rolls 
five dice; each die hits on a result of 5+. Two hits 
are scored, and two Regular Shadow units are 
removed. Since the army is not destroyed yet, the 
Free Peoples player keeps attacking and removes 
another Ent from Fangorn (leaving two Ents 
there). The new attack scores only one hit, but that 
is enough to destroy the Shadow Army. Two Ents 
now remain in Fangorn, and this means that 
another attack or movement could be possible. Since 
there are no enemy Armies adjacent to Ents at the 
moment, the Free Peoples player decides to move one 
of the last two remaining Ents into the Fords of Isen, 
to get closer to Orthanc. The Ents activation is now 
over, and another Ents Awake card must be played 
in order to use the Ents again.
4. SIEGE ENGINES
There are two types of Siege Engines introduced 
in the expansion: Shadow Towers and Free Peoples 
Trebuchets representing, respectively, the offensive 
and defensive tactics and equipment employed by 
combatants in the Third Age.
Shadow Siege Tower
Free Peoples Trebuchet
MUSTERING SIEGE ENGINES
• A maximum of two Siege Towers and a maximum 
of two Trebuchets are allowed in a region. 
• The number of Siege Engines available to players is 
limited by the counter mix.
Siege Towers
The Shadow player may use a Muster die to place a 
Siege Tower in a region containing a Shadow Army 
besieging a Stronghold controlled by the Free Peoples 
player.
Place the Tower directly in front of the Stronghold 
box. Only the Shadow player may muster Siege 
Towers.
Trebuchets
The Free Peoples player may use a Muster die to place 
a Trebuchet in a Free Peoples Stronghold he controls, 
belonging to an active Nation (it is not necessary for 
that Nation to be “At War”).
It is possible to build a Trebuchet even in a 
Stronghold under siege.
Place the Trebuchet directly in the Stronghold box. 
Only the Free Peoples player may muster Trebuchets.
SIEGE ENGINES SUPERIORITY
At the start of a siege battle compare the number of 
Siege Engines: The player with the higher number of 
Siege Engines is considered to have achieved superiority.
Shadow superiority
During the first round of a battle with Shadow 
superiority, the Free Peoples army receives a modifier 
of -1 to the Combat roll.
If, at the end of the first round, the Shadow player still 
has superiority, he may extend the battle by one round 
without reducing an Elite unit.
Free Peoples superiority
During the first round of a battle with Free Peoples 
superiority, the Free Peoples army receives a modifier 
of +1 to the Combat roll.
If, at the end of a combat round, the Free Peoples 
player still has superiority, the Shadow player may not 
extend the length of the battle by reducing Elite units.
Siege Engines tie
If both players possess the same number of Siege 
Engines, no player has superiority, but before combat 
cards are played the Free Peoples player can momentarily 
claim superiority by immediately removing one of his 
Siege Engines. In this case, the defender is considered to 
have superiority until the end of the battle.
It is possible for superiority to change during the 
round, for example if a Combat card causes the 
removal of a Siege Engine. However, note that 
superiority claimed using the Siege Engines tie rule lasts 
until the end of the battle.
ELIMINATING SIEGE ENGINES
If an Army is eliminated or moves out of the 
Stronghold region, all Siege Engines in that Army are 
immediately eliminated.
All Siege Engines in a besieging Army are likewise 
eliminated when the siege ends (either when the 
Stronghold is conquered or the besieging Army is 
eliminated or moves away).
Trebuchets and Towers can never leave the region 
where they were built. Eliminated Siege Engines may 
always be rebuilt.

TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE • 7
TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE • 7
APPENDIX:
REVISED RULES FOR
WAR OF THE RING
This appendix contains some rules clarifications and 
revisions. Use of the following rules is strongly advised, 
whether you are playing War of the Ring with or 
without the expansion elements.
ACTION DICE POOL MODIFICATION
The number of dice in the Action Pool is determined 
at the beginning of each turn, before the Draw Event 
cards phase. Any changes to the Action Pool due to 
Characters being put in play, eliminated, or otherwise 
removed from the game are only applied at the 
beginning of the following turn.
“PLAY ON THE TABLE” EVENT CARDS
Certain Event cards that are played “on the table” 
(e.g., A Balrog is Come!, Denethor’s Folly) may only 
be played if a certain condition is met. If that condition 
ceases to be met (e.g., the Balrog is not in play, Minas 
Tirith is no longer under siege), the card is immediately 
discarded.
CHARACTER DEATH
If a character appears in the game in multiple versions 
(e.g., the Witch King), whenever one version of the 
character is brought into play, no other version may 
be subsequently brought into play unless the specific 
Character card dictates differently. This is true even if 
the first version brought into play is eliminated.
RESTRICTION ON MINION MOVEMENT
Any Minion moving without an Army cannot be moved 
into a Stronghold controlled by the Free Peoples.
MOVEMENT OF LEVEL 0 CHARACTERS
If a Character’s Level is 0, he cannot move even when 
attached to an Army.
HUNT ALLOCATION DICE LIMIT
You may place in the Hunt Box the counters of all the 
Companions still in the Fellowship, as a reminder of the 
maximum number of dice that the Shadow player can 
allocate.
HUNT EFFECTS WHEN DECLARING OR 
REVEALING THE FELLOWSHIP
When the Free Peoples player declares the Fellowship, 
certain abilities and events may force him to draw a 
Hunt tile. When this happens, ignore any Reveal icon 
on the drawn tile if the Fellowship has been declared in 
a Free Peoples Stronghold or City.
When the Fellowship is revealed, if the Free Peoples 
player is forced to draw multiple Hunt tiles because of 
Shadow Stronghold presence, events, and abilities, each 
tile effect is resolved completely before applying the 
following tile effect: First resolve the effect of the tile 
that caused the Fellowship to be revealed, then resolve 
all tiles related to events and abilities, then, lastly, 
resolve the tile drawn due to the Shadow Stronghold.
Example: A Hunt tile reveals the Fellowship in 
Moria, and the Balrog is there: Three Hunt tiles are 
drawn (one for the Hunt, one for the Balrog, one 
for the Shadow Stronghold). First apply all effects 
due to the first Hunt tile (the one which caused the 
Fellowship to be revealed), then the effect of the tile 
drawn for the Balrog, and finally the effect of the 
tile drawn for the Stronghold.
REVEALING THE FELLOWSHIP IN FREE 
PEOPLES SETTLEMENTS
When a successful Hunt reveals the Fellowship, you may 
not reveal the Fellowship in a City or Stronghold of the 
Free Peoples. However, you may reveal the Fellowship 
in a Free Peoples Settlement.

8 • TWILIGHT OF THE THIRD AGE
Credits
Game Design: Roberto Di Meglio, Marco Maggi, Francesco Nepitello
Art: John Howe
Sculptures: Bob Naismith
Graphic Design: Fabio Maiorana
Additional Art: Matteo Macchi
Photos: Mizio Mencarini, Simone Peruzzi
Production: Roberto Di Meglio, Simone Peruzzi (Nexus Editrice Srl)
Production Consulting: Clive Jezard (Dice & Games Ltd.), Juergen Gehr (Ludwig Scheer GmbH)
English Version
Editing: James Torr
A game created by Nexus Editrice – www.nexusgames.com
English version © 2006 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., 1975 West County Road B2, Roseville, MN, 55113, USA
www.fantasyflightgames.com
Contributing Playtesters:
Alex Rockwell, Andy Daglish, Christian Hrdlicka, Derek Coon, Doug Adams, Kevin 
Chapman, Kris Hall, Kristofer Bengtsson, Matthias Staber, Michael Hall, Mike Helba, 
Sean McCarthy, Steve Hope, Steve Owen, Steve Sanders
Additional Playtesting:
Andrea Ligabue, Andrew Stainton, Andy Rockwell, Beni Rose, Chris McKeraghan, 
Dale Campbell, David Helba, David Sparks, Fabio Maiorana, Fredrik Borg,
Gary Swafford, Gerald Mulder, Giuliano Graziu, Helen Bengtsson, Joe McCullough, 
Karl-Johan Victor, Keith Rogers, Kevin Robbins, Kyle Hall, Marcello Taglioli,
Mauro Adorna, Massimiliano Bussetti, Melanie Chapman, Oliver Drechsler,
Randy Heath, Steven Htay, Thomas Helvard, Ugo Di Meglio, Raffaele Pascuzzi, 
Massimiliano Pardo, Daniele Rogoni 
Special Thanks to:
Kristofer Bengtsson for his support to the War of the Ring players all over the world, 
Alex Rockwell for the mathematics, Kevin Chapman for keeping tracks of FAQs even 
before the game existed, and all of the War of the Ring players across the world which 
with their enthusiasm made the possibility of an Expansion a reality.
Manufactured in the European Union at Ludwig Scheer GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 
and Dice & Games Ltd. (United Kingdom). Plastic figures made in China.
“The War of the Ring”® boardgame and “Battles of the Third Age” are © 2006 Nexus 
Editrice, and © 2006 Sophisticated Games Ltd. All rights reserved. “The Lord of the 
Rings”®, “The War of the Ring”® and the characters, events, items and places therein 
are trademarks or registered trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company, dba Tolkien 
Enterprises, and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd, and their sub 
licensees.