FOREWORD
I’ve wanted to do this for a while...
I’ve been playing Battlecars since the launch in 1983. I think like a lot of players, we all quickly saw the potential for 
making our own boards. Bigger boards, with ramps and jumps and 3D buildings and Micro Machine cars or whatever the 
equivalent was in those days. I didn’t have enough room to go down the Corgi Car route.
This set has been built to satisfy my Micro Machine set-up: 6 Cars, 2 Bikes, 2 Trucks and a Tank. The board is 35mm 
squares.
If you want to download and have a Mat printed for your game area, I created one called The Industrial Estate (the boards 
included with this set are segments from that design, which also includes a racetrack) The file can be downloaded here: 
https://www.deviantart.com/farawaypictures/art/Battlecars-The-Indutrial-Estate-851265109
So, all these years later, I still play, but the game can get frustrating. First, it’s all the tokens. It took ages to arm the cars 
and then in the heat of the moment they went everywhere. So I decided to auto-stock each vehicle.
The second was how big everything was getting. Cars and Bikes were OK, but when you got into Trucks and Tanks then the play mats wouldn’t fit in the box 
anymore. So, I’ve designed this set to all be printed on A4 Sheets (make sure you laminate the Play Mats). The idea is you re-house the whole game in a 
different box, maybe pick one up at your local charity/thrift store.
Third was the rules. It’s a fast game. It felt, especially with new gamers, we were continually checking the rules, working out modifiers, working out where that 
damage went, how much drift, etc. etc etc... So I decided to cut the rules back quite a bit, desperatley trying to limit it to one A4 page, simplifying them into 
simple dice rolls where I could, incorporate a lot into the play mat, so the speed of the game would not be interrupted.
Lastly, where would we be without the Esoteric Order of Gamers? I’ve used their simplified rules on practically every game I have, and so Peters work was my 
starting place. https://www.orderofgamers.com/
Addendum: Ammends after Peters feedback - Speedo explained.
Also adjusted ramming details for Bikes, Trucks and Tank. Acceleration/Deceleration for Tank.
I recieved written permission from the Games Workshop legal Department to offer this modification as a Non Profit ‘Print N Play’ download.
Chris Morse 2020 (Faraway Pictures).
V2.0

CAR 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turret A or B hit with ammunition remaining, roll 1D and 
94-6

CAR 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 bursts.
Acceleration/Deceleration: 3 on road, 2 on grass.
Cornering: If travelling above 4 roll for skid when making

CAR 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turret A hit with ammunition remaining, roll 1D and 
Weapon Pod A, B, C or D hit with ammunition remaining, 

CAR 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cornering: If travelling above 6 roll for skid 
above 4 with 90° turn.
With ACTIVE Fire Extinguisher Flame will not explode.

CAR 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 bursts.
Acceleration/Deceleration: 3 on road, 2 on grass.
Cornering: If travelling above 4 roll for skid when making

CAR 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turret A or B hit with ammunition remaining, roll 1D and 
94-6

BIKE 1
Cornering: If travelling above 7 roll for skid when making
Without Auto Steer roll for skid above 5 with 90° turn.
With ACTIVE Fire Extinguisher Flame will not explode. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

BIKE 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acceleration/Deceleration: 5 on road, 4 on grass.
Without Super Charger: 4 on road, 3 on grass.
Cornering: If travelling above 5 roll for skid when making
Weapon Pod A, B, C, D or E hit with ammunition remaining, 

WEAPON POD B
WEAPON POD C
WEAPON POD D
4-8 
 
2-3 
6 TYRES
5 TYRES
TRUCK 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acceleration/Deceleration: 2 on road, 1 on grass.
Turret A or B hit with ammunition remaining, roll 2D and 
Driver cannot leave vehicle.
CAB Direction
5,6
3,4
1,2

WEAPON POD B
WEAPON POD C
WEAPON POD D
4-8 
 
2-3 
6 TYRES
5 TYRES
TRUCK 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acceleration/Deceleration: 2 on road, 1 on grass.
Turret A or B hit with ammunition remaining, roll 2D and 
Driver cannot leave vehicle.
CAB Direction
5,6
3,4
1,2

3-5
DRIVER
1-6
SPARE POD A
SPARE POD B
TANK 1
NO
SKIDDING
RAMMERS TAKE
FULL DAMAGE
TAKES NO DAMAGE
PERFORMING SIDE 
OR SHUNT RAM.
HALF FROM HEAD ON.
Shell: Range Infinite
Acceleration/Deceleration: 1 on road, 1 on grass.
No cornering modifiers.
No Wheel damage modifiers.
Turret A, Spare Pod A or B hit with ammunition 
remaining, roll 2D and apply damage as normal.
Turret B hit with ammunition remaining, 
roll 1D and apply damage as normal.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SIMPLIFIED RULES
SETUP
Choose your vehicle and a play mat. Place your vehicle on the board wherever you choose 
(not in a building though). Give yourself enough room to move away from enemies without 
being killed on the first turn.
GAME TURN
Accelerate or Decelerate as your play mat permits. You may move and fire or any 
combination of these in any order. You must complete all movement though. 
MOVEMENT
Adjust the dial according to your speed restrictions and move the full 
amount. Each horizontal or vertical intersection is 1 movement. You 
come to a dead stop after a crash or ram. Speed Dial shows 
modifiers for Engine and Tyre damage.
How the Speedo works:
The example shows 
with blue lines what 
the speed would be 
with 2 engine parts 
destroyed or/and 1 
tyre. Maximum 
speed is now 7 and 
no Reverse 2 or 3.
The red line shows 
reduced speed if 
another tyre was 
destroyed. This 
would be unchanged if another 1 or 2 engine parts were destroyed (R1 would also be 
crossed off though).
FIRING
You may fire any weapon once per turn. Machine Guns can also be fired as well as a 
Weapon Pod. A Gunnery Computer allows you to fire one more weapon. Put a line through 
each fired weapon.
DAMAGE
All damage is calculated with the D8 Dice. 
Some weapons will have a modifier to take 
away distance from your dice roll. e.g. a car 3 
squares away will remove 3 from the dice roll, 
so you need to roll higher than 3 to score a 
hit. Put an X through each damaged section.
Damage is done first to armour on the side 
you are hitting. After that a dice is rolled to 
see which internal area is hit. Damage will 
stop being calculated when one internal unit is 
completely destroyed. e.g. After armour has 
been destroyed on the rear of the car the fuel 
tank is hit when rolled. The fuel tank is destroyed, any remaining damage is ignored.
See the diagram for how armour is calculated:
Blue line is the front. Green the middle. Orange the rear.
So the front/rear sides can be damaged from the front/back or side. The player marking 
damage decides where they have been hit.
If no more armour can be crossed off, roll for internal damage. If no internal damage can 
be marked off, mark for tyres.
CRASHING/RAMMING
If you crash or ram your car roll 1 dice and change the direction of your vehicle as per the 
play mat diagram. Put speed to 0.
HEAD ON RAM/CRASH
Roll 3 dice + both vehicles speed.
Both vehicles take full damage.
SIDE RAM
Roll 3 dice + rammers vehicle speed.
Rammed vehicle take full damage.
Rammer takes half (rounded down).
If you perform the ram, you take no damage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

OIL. Permanent.
Vehicle continues there full movement 
in a straight line and rolls for Skid 
at end. Speed not reduced to 0.
MINE. Remove after hit.
2D damage to front internal 
of vehicle. Roll for skid. Speed to 0.
SPIKES. Permanent.
Each wheel takes 1D damage.
Roll for skid. Speed to 0.
SMOKE. Permanent.
No Line of sight through
smoke. No firing through
smoke.
SHUNT RAM
Roll 3 dice - rammed vehicles speed.
Rammed vehicle take full damage.
Rammer takes half (rounded down).
If you perform the ram, you take no damage.
PEDESTRIANS
When leaving your vehicle you become a pedestrian. The weapon shown on your 
character has a limited use weapon. You can be hit by weapons (3 health points) or simply 
run over to be killed.
THE DRIVER
If the driver is killed its game over for you.
Your play mat has all the information needed for weapons dice throws and range etc.
PASSIVE WEAPONS
Any amount of passive weapons can be dropped from your vehicle in a single turn. 2 
Passive weapon tokens can not occupy the same square.