Game Overview
Battle for Rokugan puts players in the roles of daimyō of the 
Great Clans fighting for territory. Daimyō deploy forces to gain 
control of provinces, which earn them honor and spread their 
influence across the land. Powerful magics surge across the 
land, forces clash, and the fates of all clans hang in the balance! 
Object of the Game
Rokugan is a land filled with spirits, beauty, and strife. In Battle 
for Rokugan, each player leads a clan by taking the role of 
a daimyō, who must make military decisions that anticipate 
their opponents’ moves. Scouts and shugenja—priests and 
priestesses who serve the kami of the land—are sent forth to 
assist the daimyō by gathering information and destroying 
enemy forces. Such resources are limited, however, so the 
daimyō must call upon their services wisely.
On the battlefield, the clan’s forces clash with enemy forces to 
control territories, as well as defend the lands their daimyō has 
already claimed. Each daimyō also seeks to bring honor to their 
clan by achieving a secret objective. And through it all, dark 
forces dwelling in the Shadowlands whisper of power beyond 
imagining...for a price.
Strength, cunning, strategy, and wisdom pave the path to 
success in Battle for Rokugan. The land is there for the taking! 
The most honorable daimyō will win the day.
The wind whipped across the banners that formed 
a row of color stretching the length of the field. The 
line represented the full measure of her province’s 
strength. Would it be enough to hold the castle?
It would have to be. Her honor depended on it.
The daimyō nudged her steed and trotted up 
alongside the line of ashigaru peasant levies. They 
clutched their spears and stared straight ahead, 
toward what could be their doom. But if they died 
courageously, they would be rewarded in the next 
life. Perhaps they would even be reborn as samurai.
Behind them, her loyal samurai rested their hands 
on the hilts of their swords. The polished lacquer of 
their armor gleamed beneath the sun, their family 
crests adorning their helmets in metal wreaths. 
Beyond, the cavalry shifted, horses whickering to be 
loosed.
The creaking of a thousand branches snapped her 
attention across the field. Behind the enemy’s own 
infantry line, a thousand longbows pointed upward. 
“Prepare to receive fire!” she called.
Her clan’s shugenja began their chant, long hair and 
colored sleeves fluttering in the wind like the smoke 
of incense drifting to the heavens with their prayers. 
A thousand whistles screamed through the air, a 
dark swarm of death descending upon her army.
The chant crescendoed to a peak. Without 
warning, the wind shifted direction. The arrows 
buried themselves harmlessly in the dirt before her 
ashigaru.
A battlecry went up from the enemy line, and the 
wave of enemy infantry rushed forth to meet them.
She looked to her forces and shouted at the top 
of her lungs, her horse rearing beneath her. “Steel 
yourselves, soldiers! For the Emperor! For Rokugan!”

Components
1 Game Board
15 Peace 
15 scorched 
earTh Tokens
4 honor Bonus 
4 defense Bonus 
1 round Track 
1 shrine 
1 BaTTlefield 
1 harBor 
10 iniTiaTive cards
1 firsT Player card
210 conTrol Tokens (30 Per clan)
189 comBaT Tokens (27 Per clan)
12 secreT oBjecTive cards
10 scouT cards
5 shuGenja cards
22 TerriTory cards 
(2 Per TerriTory)
7 Daimyō ScreenS
Shugenja
an opponent. Reveal that 
token and discard it.
The Last Line 
of Defense
At the end of the game, if you 
control either the Crab base 
or two provinces in the Crab 
territory, you earn 5 honor.
First Player
any player. Look at the token 
without revealing it to the 
other players, then return the 
token to its owner’s token pool.
Diplomatic Mission
Place one peace token in any 
province. If you place the 
peace token in an opponent’s 
province, add two of your 
control tokens faceup to a 
province you control. 
Honorable Fight
Choose a province and place 
the battlefield token in it. That 
province cannot be targeted 
by diplomacy or raid tokens.

Shugenja
an opponent. Reveal that 
token and discard it.
Web of Influence
At the end of the game, if you 
control at least one province 
in each of seven different 
territories, you earn 10 honor.
Setup
To set up a game of Battle for Rokugan, follow these steps:
1. Place Game Board: Place the game board in the center of the 
play area. Place the special tokens in a pile near the board. 
 
2. Randomize Territory Cards: Place one random card from 
each territory facedown under the matching territory space 
along the edge of the game board. All territory cards not 
placed under the game board are returned to the game box. 
 
 
 
 
3. Choose Clans: Each player chooses a clan, takes their clan’s 
corresponding daimyō screen and tokens, and then reads 
their clan ability aloud to the other players. Then, each 
player takes their bluff token and places it behind their 
daimyō screen. Finally, players flip their remaining combat 
tokens facedown and mix them to create a randomized 
combat token pool. 
 
 
 
4. Distribute Scout and Shugenja Cards: Deal two scout 
cards and one shugenja card to each player. 
 
5. Distribute Secret Objectives: Shuffle the secret objective 
cards and deal two to each player. Each player chooses 
one of the two cards they receive; that card is that player’s 
secret objective. Return the remaining secret objective cards 
to the game box. A player’s secret objective card must 
remain hidden from other players. 
 
 
 
6. Populate Capitals: Each player locates their clan’s capital 
(the province on the board with the clan’s symbol) and 
places one of their control tokens facedown in that capital’s 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Set Aside Control Tokens: Each player sets aside the 
number of control tokens indicated by the “Control Token 
Setup” table to the right. These set-aside tokens will be 
placed during step 10.
Daimyō Screen with 
Bluff Token
Token Pool
Territory Cards
Control Token Setup
Number of Players
Number of Tokens Each
Scout and Shugenja 
Cards
Scorpion and Crane place control tokens in the provinces 
containing their respective clan capitals.
Secret Objective Card

Rise of an Empire
The player who has the highest 
number of territory cards is the 
first player.
Master of Governance
The player who controls the 
highest number of provinces is 
the first player.
Master of Tactics
The player who has the highest 
number of control tokens 
(faceup and facedown) on the 
board is the first player.
8. Determine First Player: Shuffle the initiative card of each 
clan chosen for this game to create the initiative deck. Then, 
reveal the top card from the deck; the clan that corresponds 
to the revealed card is the first player. That player takes 
the first player card and places it near their daimyō screen. 
Return the revealed initiative card to the game box. 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Complete Initiative Deck: Shuffle the neutral initiative 
cards (the ones that do not have a clan icon). Add these 
cards to the remaining cards in the initiative deck, one at a 
time, until the initiative deck has a total of four cards. (For 
a five-player game, no neutral initiative cards are used.) 
Return the remaining neutral initiative cards to the game 
box without looking at them. Shuffle the initiative deck and 
place it near the game board. 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Place Starting Control Tokens: Beginning with the first 
player and proceeding clockwise, each player places one 
of their set-aside control tokens facedown in the center of 
any province that does not already contain a control token. 
Provinces containing clan capitals (that do not already 
contain control tokens) and the Shadowlands provinces can 
be chosen at setup. 
 
Players continue placing control tokens in this way until all 
of the control tokens set aside during step 7 have been 
placed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Place Round Track Token: Place the round track token 
on space “1” of the round track, which is located at the 
bottom of the game board.
The Unicorn 
initiative card is 
returned to the 
game box.
Neutral Initiative 
Cards
Four-Card 
Initiative Deck
A four-player game between Crab, Phoenix, Scorpion, 
and Unicorn after setup.
Round 
Track Token
Initiative Cards
Unicorn is the 
first player for 
round one.

The Crane territory comprises the three 
indicated provinces.
Territory
Landlocked 
Province
Coastal 
Province
Perimeter
Phoenix
Crab
Scorpion
Unicorn
Dragon
Lion
Territories
A territory is a grouping of multiple provinces. All of the 
provinces that make up a territory are the same color.
Clans
Each player chooses their clan during setup. Battle for Rokugan 
has seven clans:
Control and Combat Tokens
Each clan has control and combat tokens that contain its clan 
symbol. These tokens are double-sided. 
During the game, the players will place control tokens in 
provinces. A player controls all provinces containing their control 
tokens. Controlling provinces is the primary way in which a player 
earns honor and wins the game, which is explained later.
If a card effect removes a control token from a province, faceup 
control tokens are removed before facedown control tokens.
Capitals
Each clan has a capital that is 
represented by a castle icon on the 
map. At the beginning of the game, 
each clan controls the province 
where its clan capital is located. 
Key Concepts
This section contains many of the key concepts that players will 
need to understand to play the game.
The Map
The game board features a map of Rokugan. The map contains 
two landmasses and a sea. The landmasses are divided into 
provinces, which are grouped into territories. 
Provinces
A province is an area of the map surrounded by a yellow 
perimeter. A province that is completely surrounded by other 
provinces or the map edge is a landlocked province. A province 
that has a perimeter that touches the sea is a coastal province. 
A province’s perimeter comprises multiple borders. The portion 
of a perimeter that is shared by two provinces is a land border, 
and two provinces that share a land border are adjacent. The 
portion of a perimeter that is shared by a province and the sea 
is a coastal border.
Land 
Land 
Coastal 
This province contains the 
Scorpion clan capital.
Facedown 
Faceup 
Facedown 
Faceup 

Strength of Purpose
 Choose two different 
provinces you control and add 
one of your control tokens 
faceup to each of those 
Example of a player’s hand of combat tokens after 
step 2 of the upkeep phase.
Dragon is now the first player.
Territory Card
Strength
Playing the Game
A game of Battle for Rokugan is played over a series of five 
rounds. Each round consists of the following three phases that 
players resolve in order: the upkeep phase, the placement 
phase, and the resolution phase. 
Upkeep Phase
During the upkeep phase, players determine a new first player, 
draw combat tokens, and play non-Shadowlands territory cards. 
To resolve the upkeep phase, players perform the following steps:
1. Determine First Player (Ignore During First Round): The 
first player reveals the top card of the initiative deck. The 
clan that corresponds to the revealed card is the new first 
player for the current game round. That player takes the 
first player card; this card can be used at the start of the 
first player’s turn during the placement phase. (Since a first 
player was determined during setup, players ignore this 
step for the first round of the game.)
 
◊If a neutral initiative card indicates more than one player 
would be first player, the tied player closest to the right of 
the current first player is the new first player. 
 
◊During a two-player game, the first player card is not used.
2. Draw Combat Tokens: Players place their bluff combat 
tokens faceup behind their screens. Then, they draw 
combat tokens from their combat token pools and place the 
tokens behind their screens until they each have a total of 
six tokens behind the screen. Then, players flip their drawn 
tokens faceup; these six faceup tokens are the player’s hand.
3. Play Territory Cards (Ignore During First Round): 
Beginning with the first player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player must either play one of their territory cards 
or pass. If a player passes, they can still 
play a territory card during a later turn, 
unless all other players also pass. Players 
continue taking turns playing territory 
cards or passing until all players have 
passed consecutively. Then, the upkeep 
phase ends and the placement phase 
begins. (Players ignore this step during the 
first round of the game since they will not 
have any territory cards.) 
Placement Phase
During the placement phase, players place their combat tokens 
on the map to fortify their defenses, to attack neighboring 
clans, or to engage in diplomacy. 
Beginning with the first player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player places one of their combat tokens from their 
hand facedown on the map. Players continue taking turns 
placing combat tokens until each player has one combat token 
remaining behind their screen. Then, players proceed to the 
resolution phase.
Placing Combat Tokens
Each player has a common set of combat tokens 
and one clan-specific combat token. The type and 
number of each token is listed on each player’s 
daimyō screen. This is open information for all 
players.
Each army, navy, shinobi, and blessing token has 
a strength. 
Each type of combat token has its own placement 
rules, but in general they are placed either on 
borders or in the middle of a province. The different combat 
tokens and their rules for placement are explained later.
Only one combat token can be placed on each border. Combat 
tokens are always placed facedown. (The exception to both of 
these rules is the blessing token, which is explained later.)
There is no limit to the number of combat tokens a player can 
place in the middle of a province to defend it.
When placing a token on a border, the player should place the 
token in the center of the border, orienting the token so its 
arrow points toward the province they are attacking.
When placing a token in the middle of a province, the player 
should orient the token toward the golden flowers in that 
A player may look at their own facedown combat tokens on the 
board at any time.

The Combat Tokens
This section describes the various combat tokens and their 
respective rules for placement in detail. Resolving combat 
tokens is explained later. 
If a token is placed in a way that violates the rules governing 
its placement, it is removed during the resolution phase. 
Army
Armies are the most common tokens players use 
to defend and attack provinces. 
To attack, a player can place an army token on a 
land border between a province they control and an adjacent 
province they wish to attack. To defend, a player can place an 
army token in any province (landlocked or coastal) they control. 
Navy
Navies allow players to attack distant shores 
beyond the reach of armies.
To attack, a player can place a navy token on any 
coastal border. To defend, a player can place a navy token in 
a coastal province they control. 
Shinobi
The rare and secretive shinobi can launch 
surprise attacks in any province—no place is safe 
from their silent blades. The shinobi strike over 
great distances, and can be called upon to either 
defend or attack. A player can place a shinobi token in the 
center of any province. If a player places a shinobi token in a 
province they control, that token is used to defend; otherwise, 
it is used to attack.
Blessing
Occasionally, a clan daimyō’s strategic plan 
requires additional guidance and assistance from 
the kami in the form of a blessing.
A player can place a blessing token faceup and on top of any 
of their facedown army, navy, or shinobi tokens. 
If a blessing is on top of a combat token, those two tokens 
cannot be targeted by card effects or clan abilities. During the 
resolution phase, the strength of the blessing is added to the 
strength of its clan’s attack or defense.
Diplomacy
When peace is desired, a diplomatic approach is 
best. The diplomacy token bestows a permanent 
peace on a province. A player can place their 
diplomacy token in any province they control to protect it 
against current and future attacks. 
Raid
As a last resort, a daimyō may decide to destroy 
a province rather than allow territory to fall into 
enemy hands. The raid token leaves nothing but 
scorched earth behind. 
A player can place a raid token in a province they do not 
control. When revealing the raid token during the resolution 
phase, a player can only trigger its effect if the raid token 
is either in the same province as their shinobi token or in a 
province that is adjacent to a province they control. 
Bluff
Sometimes the best strategy is deception. The 
bluff token allows a daimyō to feint in the hope of 
drawing out the enemy. 
To bluff, a player can place this token as if it were any non-
blessing combat token. Placing a bluff token is also how a 
player saves a valuable combat token for the next round since 
players place all but one of their combat tokens that are behind 
their screens. Discarded bluff tokens are always returned to 
their owners’ hands.
Scorpion attacks Unicorn by placing an army token 
on an adjacent land border. 
Unicorn attacks Crab. Crab defends his province 
by placing a combat token in its center.

Resolution Phase
During the resolution phase, players perform the following 
steps to resolve the combat tokens they placed on the map. 
After a token is resolved, it is discarded to a faceup pile near 
the player who placed it. This is the player’s discard pile. 
1. Reveal Combat Tokens: Players flip all combat tokens on 
the map faceup.
2. Discard Bluff and Illegally Placed Tokens: Players discard 
any bluff tokens or illegally placed combat tokens from the 
map. Players’ bluff tokens are returned to them and are 
placed behind their respective screens.
3. Resolve Raid Tokens: Players resolve each raid token. To 
resolve a raid token, players discard all combat tokens that 
share a province or border with that raid token; they also 
remove all control tokens from the province. Then, the raid 
token is replaced with a scorched earth token. 
4. Resolve Diplomacy Tokens: Players resolve each 
diplomacy token. To resolve a diplomacy token, the players 
discard all combat tokens that share a province or border 
with that diplomacy token. Then, the diplomacy token is 
replaced with a peace token.
5. Resolve Battles: Players resolve all battles one at a time. 
Since all battles occur simultaneously, the order in which 
battles are resolved does not matter.
6. Claim Territories: Each player claims the territory cards for 
the territories they control. A player controls a territory if 
they control each province in that territory.
7. Advance Round Track: Advance the round track token 
one space.
Resolving Battles
A battle occurs when a clan’s combat token is in a province 
or on the border of a province that the clan does not control. 
During a battle, any clans that do not control the province are 
attackers; there can be multiple attackers attempting to take 
control of a single province. If a clan controls the province 
being attacked, that clan is the defender.
To resolve a battle, the players determine their total strength. 
Each attacker’s total is the sum of the strengths of their tokens 
that are attacking the province. The defender’s total is the 
sum of the strengths of their tokens they placed to defend 
the province, plus any additional defense bonuses (defense 
bonuses are explained later).
The player with the highest total wins the battle. If there is a tie 
for the highest total, the defender wins the battle.
If an empty province is attacked, there is no defender; the 
attacker compares their total strength against any defense 
bonuses present in the province. When an empty province 
is attacked, if the attacker does not win the battle, nothing 
happens. 
After a battle, all of the combat tokens involved in the battle 
are discarded.
If an attacker wins the battle, they remove all of the defender’s 
control tokens from the province. Then, they place one of their 
own control tokens facedown in the province. 
If the defender wins the battle, their control tokens remain in 
the province. Then, they place another one of their control 
tokens in the province faceup, which provides a defense bonus 
during their future battles in that province. See “Successful 
Defense” on page 10 for more details.
Battle Example
Phoenix has attacked Dragon from two of his provinces 
using two army tokens with strengths of 1. Scorpion has 
attacked Dragon using an army token with a strength 
of 3. Dragon has defended her province using an army 
token with a strength of 1.
Each clan calculates and compares its total strength. 
Dragon’s strength is 1, Phoenix’s strength is 2, and 
Scorpion’s strength is 3.
Scorpion has the highest total strength, so she takes 
control of the province. 
She removes the combat and control tokens from the 
province and its borders. Then, she places one of her 
control tokens facedown in the province.

Special Tokens
Special tokens remain on the board for the duration of the 
game. These include scorched earth tokens, peace tokens, and 
a variety of tokens that are placed by territory card effects. A 
province can only contain one special token at any time.
Peace and scorched earth tokens cannot be replaced by other 
special tokens, but other special tokens can be replaced by 
peace and scorched earth tokens. 
Example: Dragon controls a province that contains the harbor 
token. During the placement phase, Dragon places her 
diplomacy token in that province. During the resolution phase, 
the diplomacy token causes a peace token to be placed in the 
province, which replaces the harbor token. 
Scorched Earth
If a province contains a scorched earth token, that 
province cannot be controlled or attacked for 
the remainder of the game. Players cannot place 
combat tokens in a province that contains a scorched earth 
token or on a border of that province.
A player can still control a territory if one or more provinces 
in that territory contain a scorched earth token. To control the 
territory, the player only needs to control the provinces without 
scorched earth tokens.
Peace
If a province contains a peace token, that province 
cannot be attacked and the player who controls it 
cannot attack adjacent provinces from the peaceful 
province. Players cannot place combat tokens in a province or 
on a border of a province that contains a peace token.
Shrine
If a province contains a shrine token, that province 
cannot be attacked; however, the player who 
controls it can attack provinces that are adjacent to 
it. Players who do not control the province containing a shrine 
token cannot place combat tokens in it or on its borders.
Battlefield
The battlefield token ensures that honorable battle 
will always occur in its province. If a province 
contains a battlefield token, players cannot place 
diplomacy tokens or raid tokens in that province.
Harbor
The harbor token must be placed in a landlocked 
province. While a province contains a harbor token, 
it is a coastal province. The player who controls 
that province can defend it with navy tokens, and other players 
can attack it by placing navy tokens on its borders, even without 
controlling adjacent provinces.
Honor Bonus and Defense Bonus
Honor and defense bonus tokens are added to 
the board by territory cards. Honor bonus tokens 
provide additional honor as indicated by the token.
Defense bonus tokens provide additional defense 
strength as indicated by the token. Each defense 
bonus token also provides one additional honor. 
End of the Game
The game ends after five rounds. Each player reveals their 
secret objective card and determines their total honor. 
Each player earns honor as follows: 
 
◊A number of honor equal to the total 
number of flowers in the provinces they 
control. Some flowers are printed on the 
map, and some flowers are on tokens.
 
◊One honor for each of their faceup control 
tokens on the map; no honor is awarded 
for faceup control tokens in the Shadowlands 
 
◊A number of honor provided by their secret 
objective.
 
◊Five honor for each territory they control; 
no honor is awarded for controlling the Shadowlands 
Additional Rules
This section contains additional rules that players need to know 
to play the game.
Successful Defense
Each time a province is successfully defended, the defender 
places one of their faceup control tokens in that province, 
which provides that province with a defense bonus during their 
future battles.
If an attack against a province fails for any reason, that province 
is also treated as being successfully defended. Finally, if a player 
places an army, navy, or shinobi token to defend a province and 
that province is not attacked, the province is treated as being 
successfully defended. 
Defense Bonuses
There are a variety of defense bonuses that a defender can use 
to increase their strength during a battle, as follows:
 
◊Some provinces, such as provinces with 
a clan capital, have an inherent defense 
bonus. These bonuses are represented 
on the map by an icon and strength. (A 
province containing a clan capital has 
a defense bonus even if that clan is not 
represented by a player in the game.)
 
◊Each faceup control token in a province 
provides the defender with a defense strength of 1. Each 
time a player successfully defends a province, they place a 
faceup control token in the province they defended. 
 
◊There is no limit to the number of control tokens a player 
can have in a province if they continually defend that 
province successfully. 
 
◊Some special tokens added to the board by territory cards 
provide defense bonuses. Players place these tokens on the 
board by playing territory cards.
Three Honor
Faceup Control 
Defense 
Bonus Printed 
on Province

The Shadowlands contains 
two single-province 
territories, both 
highlighted here in blue.
Playing Territory Cards
Each territory has a space on the game board for a territory 
card. At the end of each resolution phase, each player 
determines if they control any territories. If a player controls all 
of the provinces in one territory, they take the card from that 
territory’s space. 
At the end of the resolution phase, if a player loses control of a 
territory and they have not played its territory card, the card is 
returned to its matching space on the board.
Territory cards provide players with single-use abilities. Players 
can play territory cards during the upkeep phase. The two 
Shadowlands territory cards are the exception to this rule; see 
“The Shadowlands” below. 
To play a territory card, a player reads and resolves the text on 
the card. Then, they return it to the game box; that card cannot 
be played again during the game. After a territory’s card is 
played, it is not replaced. Any players who gain control of that 
territory later in the game do not gain a card for doing so.
Removing Tokens
When a combat token is removed, it is discarded and placed in 
its owner’s discard pile. 
When a control token is removed, it is returned to its owner’s 
pool of control tokens. If a card effect instructs a player to 
remove one of their control tokens, they choose the province 
from which they remove the token. If the chosen province 
contains more than one control token, faceup control tokens 
are removed before facedown control tokens.
When a special token is removed, it is returned to the pile. 
The Shadowlands
The southwest provinces of the map are the Shadowlands. 
Each of these two provinces is a single-province territory with a 
defense bonus. 
There are two territory cards 
for the Shadowlands, one for 
the north province and one 
for the south province. (North 
and south are indicated by the 
arrows next to the Shadowlands 
icon.) 
If a player controls a province 
in the Shadowlands, they take 
the appropriate territory card as 
normal. Shadowlands territory 
cards are not played during 
the upkeep phase; they are 
played at the start of a player’s 
turn during the placement 
phase. These cards grant dark, 
powerful abilities to the daimyō 
who use them, but they require 
sacrifice.
The Shadowlands do not 
provide players with honor at 
the end of the game. A player 
does not gain honor for controlling Shadowlands territories 
or for having faceup control tokens in either Shadowlands 
Scout and Shugenja Cards
Scout cards are single-use cards that allow daimyō to send their 
scouts into the battle to gather information about the opposing 
forces. During the placement phase, a player can play one or 
both of their scout cards at the start of their turn, before placing 
a combat token. Then, they return the card to the game box; 
that card cannot be played again during the game.
Shugenja cards are single-use cards that allow daimyō to 
harness their shugenjas’ magic to eliminate the opposing 
forces. During the placement phase, a player can play their 
shugenja card at the start of their turn, before placing a combat 
token. Then, they return the card to the game box; that card 
cannot be played again during the game.
Ronin
If a player has no control tokens on the board at the start of 
the upkeep phase, they become ronin. During that round’s 
placement phase, the ronin player can place army tokens on 
any land border, and they cannot place raid or diplomacy 
tokens. If a ronin player cannot place any tokens during their 
turn, that turn is skipped and the ronin player cannot take any 
more turns during that placement phase.
At the start of the next upkeep phase, if the ronin player has at 
least one control token on the board, they are no longer ronin 
and all normal rules apply to them.
The Shadowlands
To the south of Rokugan lie the blighted Shadowlands, 
a dark realm under the sway of Fu Leng and the 
corrupted armies from the realm of Jigoku. The only 
safeguard between the Shadowlands and Rokugan is 
the mighty Kaiu Wall and its builders and defenders, 
the Crab Clan. Should the Wall ever fall, a combined 
force of goblins, ogres, undead, and legendary demons 
known as oni would spill forth from the Shadowlands 
with the sole intention of destroying civilization.
Unicorn is ronin. During this placement phase, Unicorn can 
place his tokens ignoring adjacency rules.

Credits
Fantasy Flight Games
Game Design: Tom Jolly with Molly Glover
Technical Writing: Adam Baker
Editing and Proofreading: Justin Hoeger and Heather Silsbee
Board Game Manager: James Kniffen
Legend of the Five Rings Story Review: Erik Dahlman
Graphic Design: Christopher Beck and Christopher Hosch
Graphic Design Manager: Brian Schomburg
Cover Art: Mathias Kollros
Board Art: Francesca Baerald
Interior Art: Nele Diel and Shen Fei
Art Direction: Andy Christensen and Taylor Ingvarsson
Managing Art Director: Melissa Shetler
Fiction: Katrina Ostrander
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
Senior Project Manager: John Franz-Wichlacz
Senior Manager of Product Development: Chris Gerber
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Creative Director: Andrew Navaro
Asmodee North America
Production Management: Jason Beaudoin and Megan Duehn
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen 
Original L5R Property and Game Created by Ryan Dancey, 
Matt Staroscik, D.J. Trindle, Matt Wilson, Dave Williams, 
John Wick, and John Zinser.
Playtesters
Dane Beltrami, Andrew Beyer, Carl Beyer, Chasina Beyer, Ron Beyer, 
Tony Beyer, Kathy Bishop, Daniel Lovat Clark, Madeleine Cominetti, Wes 
Divin, Richard A. Edwards, Tony Fanchi, Nick Glover, Monica Helland, 
Tim Huckelbery, Carl King, Hunter Lewis, Lukas Litzsinger, Andres Marin 
Madrigal, Pete Melvin, Tim O’Brien, Tyler Parrott, Jorgen Peddersen, 
Colin Phelps, Felipe Sanchez Salamanca, Dan Smith, Andrea Marin 
Solorzano, Diego Marin Solorzano, Esteban Marin Solorzano, Andrew 
Swan, Dave Tyrell, Ken Uy, Luke Walaszck, Jason Walden, Timothy Wiley, 
Jack Wilkinson, Paul Wilkinson, and Zayda Millan Yoldi
Special thanks to all our beta testers!
© 2017 Fantasy Flight Games. Legend of the Five Rings, the L5R logo, and 
Fantasy Flight Supply are TMs of Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games and 
the FFG logo are ® of Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 
1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. 
Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT 
IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR 
YOUNGER.
Lion
Crab
Scorpion
Unicorn
Dragon
Phoenix
Quick Reference
Upkeep Phase Order
1. Determine First Player
2. Draw Combat Tokens
3. Play Territory Cards
Placement Phase
 
Players take turns placing combat tokens on 
the board to attack or defend
 
Only one combat token can be placed on a 
border (blessings are the exception)
 
Combat tokens are always placed facedown 
(blessings are the exception)
 
No limit to the number of combat tokens a 
player can place to defend
Resolution Phase Order
1. Reveal Combat Tokens
2. Discard Bluff and Illegally Placed Tokens
3. Resolve Raid Tokens 
4. Resolve Diplomacy Tokens
5. Resolve Battles
6. Claim Territories
7. Advance Round Track
End of Game Honor
 
Honor equal to the total number of flowers in 
the provinces a player controls
 
h No honor for any faceup control tokens in 
the Shadowlands
 
Honor provided by a player’s secret objective
 
Five honor for each territory a player controls
 
h No honor for the Shadowlands territories