Bausack 
A Game of Honor and Diplomacy 
 
 
Rules of Play 
 
Players: 2 – 4 
 
Set Up: All pieces are placed on the table in easy view 
and reach of all players. Each player is given a pool 
of 10 tokens, which must be plainly visible to all 
players. Each player should have a flat, stable play 
area roughly 2 feet square. 
 
Sequence of Play: Starting with the youngest player, 
order of play proceeds clockwise. On your turn, you 
have two options: Build or Push. Once this is 
resolved, the turn passes to the next player. 
 
Build: Select a piece from the pile: you may pick up 
any piece(s) and examine it/them, but may not touch 
your tower or anyone else’s tower with it. Choose an 
opening bid, which can be zero: starting with the 
next player clockwise, players may either pass or set 
a higher bid (up to the number of tokens they have 
remaining) for ownership of the piece. If a player 
passes, they may no longer bid on that piece. The 
highest bidder pays that amount to the bank and 
immediately places the piece. If the piece is the 
player’s first piece, it becomes their foundation. If it 
is your turn and you are outbid for a piece, you must 
either choose another piece to Build, or you may 
choose to Push (see below). 
 
Push: Select a piece from the pile: you may pick up 
any piece(s) and examine it/them, but may not touch 
your tower or anyone else’s tower with it. The piece 
goes to the next player, who must either accept the 
piece and immediately place it or immediately pay 1 
token to the bank to pass it to the next player. That 
player may either accept the piece or pay tokens to 
the bank to pass it. Each time it is passed, the cost of 
passing it increases by 1 token: the second player to 
receive the piece must pay 2 to pass it, the third must 
pay 3 tokens, and so on. 
 
Winning the Game: The winner is the player whose 
tower is the last to be standing, even if only briefly 
before it collapses. If all of the pieces have been 
successfully placed and more than one player 
remains, the game ends in a draw. 
 
Important Terms 
 
Foundation & Tower: The first piece you place is 
called your foundation, which is the only piece that 
is allowed to touch the table surface. The foundation 
and all other pieces stacked on it are collectively 
called your tower. All other pieces must be balanced 
on the foundation or on another piece in your tower. 
 
Placing Pieces: Once you have accepted a piece, 
either by placing the winning bid during a Build or 
receiving a piece from a Push, you must place it on 
your tower before play can proceed. You may not 
touch your tower or move pieces you have already 
placed; however, you may use an accepted piece to 
adjust the position of pieces already placed on your 
tower. Once you let go of a piece, it has been placed 
and cannot be picked back up or adjusted except by 
the above method. 
 
Pool: A player’s remaining tokens. All players start 
with 10 tokens and do not gain any more during the 
game. 
 
Tower Collapse: Your tower is considered to have 
collapsed if, at any time and for any reason, a piece 
other than your foundation touches the table surface; 
this includes pieces that you have accepted and are 
in the process of placing. When a tower collapses, 
that player is out of the game: all of their pieces are 
immediately put back into the supply and all their 
tokens returned to the bank. If a tower collapses on a 
player’s turn but before they have chosen a piece for 
a Build or Push, they may immediately make use of 
the new pieces. A tower may collapse such that the 
force of the impact or a scattering piece hits another 
player’s tower and causes theirs to collapse.