Table of Contents
In Belfort, players appoint their crew of loyal Elves and 
Dwarves to perform various tasks; chief among these 
tasks is collecting the money and raw materials needed to 
construct buildings in the five districts that make up the 
city. Every property comes with unique abilities that can 
help its owner on the path to success; Gnomes can be 
hired to staff many of the buildings, permitting access to 
bonus abilities. Utilizing the city’s five powerful Guilds 
could also play a big part in achieving victory.
A player’s influence in each district grows with each new 
building he constructs; players will have to decide not only 
what type of building to construct, but also when is the 
most effective time to do so, and where it should be built. 
Points are awarded three times during the game, based on 
each player’s influence in each of the five districts and 
among the Elves, Dwarves, and Gnomes. At the end of 
seven rounds, the player who has earned the most points 
will win!
Esteemed Master Architect,
The Department of Official Apologies and Bad News Delivery would like to 
officially apologize to you. You see, there’s been a slight clerical 
error. Instead of hiring only one supervisor to oversee the construction 
of Belfort—our kingdom’s glorious new castle on the wild frontier of Troll 
country—we have somehow contracted several to do the job at the same time. 
That means there will be other Master Architects poking around, building 
things where you want to, competing for precious lumber, stone, metal and 
gold, hiring the best Dwarves, Elves, and Gnomes out from under you,
cozying up to the King when you‘re not looking, and generally getting in 
your way as much as possible.
As much as it would be great if all of you could be friends, you can't 
afford to let your competition out-build you or out-hire you. After all 
(and here’s the Bad News Delivery part of this job), there is only one Key 
to the City; we can’t just chop the thing up and divvy it out. So, in his 
great wisdom, the King has decided that when the building season ends at 
the first snows, he will award it to the one who has shown him or herself 
to be truly deserving of the honor. Please accept this Official Apology 
for this sudden twist, and remember that your signed contract is legally 
(and magically) binding. Good luck, Master Architect!
Yours officially,
Rudwig P. Hornswimmons
Deputy Assistant to the Assistant Deputy
Dept. of OA & BND
Game Overview
Icons
Setup
Round Order
1. Calendar
2. Placement
Game Overview
2-5 players • 90-120 minutes • ages 13+
3. Collection
4. Actions
5. Scoring
End Game
Appendix: 2-Player Game
Appendix: Properties
Appendix: Guilds

Guild’s
Worker
Plank
Calendar
Property Card
draw deck
Key to the City
You’ll be butting them together to form a lovely picture of how the 
bustling castle of Belfort will look once it’s built. Each district has a 
number of features on it that you’ll need to know during the game. 
Aside from a few minor details, each district is basically identical 
in layout. You should be able to find your way around quite easily.
This handy board will keep track of the 
season, remind you of Trading Post 
prices, and serve as a stockpile for 
Gnomes and Property Cards.
To be bestowed upon the 
glorious winner of the 
game amid reluctant 
congratulations and 
thinly-veiled implications 
of cheating.
Throughout the game you will find a few icons in common use.
Icons
Amount
for this
Level
Property
Symbols
Location
symbol
Score
Track
Levels
Boundary
between tax
levels
edge of District
is Boundary
between tax
levels
Gnome
Stockpile
Trading Post
Prices
5 Gameboard Districts
Calendar Board
wood
stone
metal
gold
pub
wood or stone
gardens
tower
inn
blacksmith
bank
market
gatehouse
library
keep
wall
guild

Property
Symbol
Cost to
Build
Worker Plank
with Action
Income Coin
King’s Camp
Income & Taxes
Recruiter’s Desk
sample fronts
back
Collection Board
5 Turn Order Crests
5 Player Boards
50 Property Cards
These cards represent the ten property types that you can 
build during the game. There is a detailed description of each 
card in the Properties Appendix.
Use your board to organize your workers and 
resources. The board also features reminders about 
the order of play, scoring, and property prices.
Your crest tells you your place in the turn order.
All of the crests 
are gray on the 
back side.
1 Calendar marker
Keeps track of the current month.
These planks 
become available 
as soon as you 
build the building.
Used to organize the resource stockpiles. You will also be sending 
workers here to gather resources and engage in other activities.
Property name
Gnome Lock
with Action
These actions/
planks become 
available once you 
assign a Gnome to 
the building.
Resource Areas

basic
resource
interactive
sample
fronts
backs
master dwarf
master elf
dwarf
elf
46 Gold
Coins
6 multiplier chips
30 Wood
logs
30 Stone
blocks
20 Metal
bricks
workers
5 Scoring Markers
60 Property Markers
Each game will feature 5 random Guilds in Belfort. During the game you can send workers to the 
Guilds to take powerful actions; there is a detailed description of each Guild in the Guilds Appen-
dix. You can even pay resources to “build” the Guilds and earn income from them. There are three 
different categories of Guild (distinguishable by the letter on their back side): Basic, Resource, 
and Interactive. These categories will help you determine which Guilds to use in your game.
Resources are what you need to get things done in the game. Wood, Stone, Metal, and Gold. You’ll be gathering and 
spending all of these to accomplish pretty much everything.
Resources won’t gather themselves. Between the Dwarves and the Elves, 
you’ll be able to bring in all four of the resources you need. Don’t forget the 
Gnomes... they staff your buildings and allow you access to locked actions. 
Hiring lots of workers is also one of the ways to earn points in the game.
1 per player. These let you track 
your score on the scoring track.
12 per player. Use these to show that you 
have built specific locations in Belfort. 
Dominating districts with your own 
buildings is the way to big points.
Action
Cost
to
Build
name
35 Dwarves
7 in each player color. 
5 Dwarves per player 
have a Master Dwarf 
on the back.
35 Elves
7 in each player color. 
5 Elves per player 
have a Master Elf on 
the back.
22 Gnomes
Resources are not meant to be limited by the number of pieces in the game. 
If the supply ever runs out of a resource, a player can use the included 
multiplier chips to make change and return some to the supply. For 
example, if the supply runs out of Stone, a player with a lot of Stone could 
return 5 Stone to the supply, then take 1 Stone on a x5 multiplier chip.
The first time you play you will need to apply stickers 
to your Worker markers. First apply the Dwarf, Elf, 
and Gnome stickers to the fronts. Then flip 5 Dwarves 
and 5 Elves of each color over and apply Master Dwarf 
and Master Elf stickers to each of those.
Players aren’t likely to run out of Property 
markers during a game, but in the very rare 
case that someone does, use something else 
as a substitute marker.
12 Guild Tiles
Resources

Game Board: Place the five districts together creating a pentagon–shaped game board depicting 
the castle surrounded by a scoring track. (Make sure the districts are in the right order by noting 
the numbers on the scoring track.)
Collection Board: Place the Collection board near the game board. Make supply piles of all four 
resources (Wood, Stone, Metal, Gold) beside the relevant resource areas of the Collection board.
Calendar Board: Place the Calendar board near the game board and set up the following items:
Player Materials: Have each player choose a color and give them each one set of like-colored 
playing materials. Return unused colors to the box. Each player gets:
In addition, each player takes:
Beginner Game: Randomly select 3 Resource Guilds and 2 Basic Guilds.
Normal Game: Randomly select 1 Resource Guild, 2 Basic Guilds, and 2 Interactive Guilds.
Advanced Game: Either choose all Guilds randomly, or players can agree which Guilds 
they want to play with.
Property Cards: Place the deck of Property cards on the Calendar board where shown, to 
form a draw deck. Draw 3 cards from the deck and place them face-up next to the Calendar 
board as shown to form a draw pool. 
Gnomes: Take 9/14/18/22 Gnomes for 2/3/4/5 players and place them on the “Gnomes 
for Hire” area. (There is reminder chart there listing how many are needed.) Return any 
unused Gnomes to the box; they will not be used for this game.
Calendar Marker: Place it next to the first month of Spring as shown.
1 Player Aid
7 Dwarves and 7 Elves: Each player keeps 3 Elves and 3 Dwarves in their color and puts 
them near their Player Aid with the Master side down. The remaining Elves and Dwarves 
from all players are gathered into a worker supply near the game board. (Ideally where 
nobody will confuse them for “in play” Elves and Dwarves.) 
Starting Resources: Each player takes 1 Wood, 1 Stone, 1 Metal, and 5 Gold. (The Player 
Aids display reminders of these amounts.) Resources are kept near the Player Aids as shown.
Starting Hand: Shuffle the deck of Property cards. Each player is dealt a hand of 5 Property 
cards from the deck. (Player hands are kept private at all times.) Each player looks at their 
cards and chooses 3 to keep, discarding the other 2 into a shared face-up discard pile.
12 Property markers: Kept near the Player Aids as shown.
1 Scoring marker: Stacked near the start of the Scoring Track on the game board.
Turn Order Crests: Take Crests to match the number of players in the game. Return any 
unused Crests to the box. (For example in a 3-player game keep Crests 1-3 and return 
crests 4 and 5 to the box.) Randomly distribute a Crest to each player. Each player keeps 
their crest face-up on their Player Aid as shown.
Guilds: Choose 5 Guilds (see below) and place the 5 selected Guild tiles face up on the 
board in the Guild locations. It does not matter which Guild goes in which district. Return 
the unused Guild tiles to the box; they will not be needed.
Game Setup
Note: For a 2-player game there are some differences to setup and 
rules. Refer to the 2-Player Game Appendix to see the details.

Throughout the game you must always keep 
your Elf and Dwarf markers with the “normal” 
side facing up. You should only flip an Elf or a 
Dwarf to its Master side when it has been 
legitimately upgraded during the game.
resource
supply
piles
discard
pile
starting
resources
starting
hand:
draw 5
keep 3
discard 2
property
markers
elves &
dwarves:
keep 3 of
each, put
the rest in
the supply
scoring
stack
scoring
turn order
crest
worker
supply
gnomes
normal side
master side
guilds
draw
deck
calendar
draw
pool
Main
Playing Area
In Front of
Each Player
Feel free to arrange the different boards so that 
the layout makes sense for your table space.

The number of available planks at the Recruiter’s Desk 
depends on how many players are in the game. There are 
1/2/3 planks at the Recruiter’s Desk in a 2-3/4/5 player 
game. These limits are noted on the planks as a reminder.
A player must pay a fee of 2 Gold to the supply when 
placing a Worker at the Recruiter’s Desk.
An Elf placed at the Recruiter’s Desk will recruit another 
Elf during the Collection phase, while a Dwarf placed 
there will recruit another Dwarf.
Recruiter’s Desk (to recruit new Elves and Dwarves during the Collection phase)
Move the Calendar marker to the next month on the 
Calendar. (If this is the first round of the game, move 
it onto the first month of Spring.) Then proceed to the 
Placement phase.
Example: The fourth round of the game is starting. The Calendar 
marker is moved from the last month of Spring to the first month 
of Summer.
Each game of Belfort lasts for 7 Rounds (represented by the months on the Calendar). 
Each Round is made up of the following 5 Phases:
Round Order
Players place their Workers (Elves and Dwarves) onto planks in 
the various areas on the Collection Board, the Guilds, or their own 
built Property Cards in order to gain a beneficial effect. Workers 
that do not get placed onto planks will go into the Resource Areas. 
Planks can be found in the following areas:
One at time, starting with the player who has the 1st Turn Order Crest and continuing in turn order, 
players either place one Worker or pass. (Once a player passes, he immediately distributes all of his 
remaining Workers into the Resource Areas and is finished for this phase—see Passing & Resource 
Areas for details.) Player 1 places one Worker onto a plank of his choice and then Player 2 places one 
Worker, and so on. Continue cycling through the turn order, placing Workers in this fashion until all 
players have passed. Workers may never be placed on already-occupied planks.
1. Calendar
2. Placement
1. Calendar The calendar is updated. 
2. Placement Players take turns assigning their workers to various tasks.
3. Collection Players gather resources and other assets.
4. Actions Players perform actions using their resources and assigned workers.
5. Scoring In certain rounds only, players calculate their scores.
Example: In a 4-player game, Red has 
already placed an Elf on the first plank.
Blue could place a worker (Elf or Dwarf) 
onto the second plank by paying 2 Gold. That 
would be the limit for this round since the 
final plank is reserved for 5-player games. 
a typical plank
Note the square
and circle symbols;
This means Elves or
Dwarves only.
 No Gnomes!

Example: Nobody has yet played any Workers into the King’s 
Camp. The first player to do so will occupy the plank marked 
“1” and will be the first to act when the King’s Camp is resolved. 
Example: This player built 
a Blacksmith and an Inn 
in earlier turns. Right now 
he could place a Worker 
on the Blacksmith’s plank, 
but he cannot place one on 
the Inn’s plank (which 
displays a fee of 1 Gold) 
because he has not yet 
unlocked it with a Gnome.
Example: Purple is the last one to 
pass and she has an Elf and a 
Dwarf remaining. She could place 
them in a variety of ways but 
decides to team them up and send 
them to the Mine where they’ll be 
able to collect 1 Metal.
Once a player passes, he must place his remaining Elves and Dwarves (if any) in the Resource Areas 
on the Collection Board. Each of the four areas needs specific Workers to collect a single resource. 
Players can distribute their Workers however they want, and there is no limit on how many Workers 
can fit in any area. Workers placed in the Resource Areas don’t
actually collect their resources until the Collection phase. 
Once all players have passed and have distributed any leftover 
Workers into the Resource Areas, proceed to the Collection phase.
1 Elf placed in 
the Forest will 
collect 1 Wood.
1 Dwarf placed 
in the Quarry 
will collect
1 Stone.
1 Elf+Dwarf pair 
placed in the 
Mine will collect 
1 Metal.
1 Elf or 1 Dwarf 
placed in the 
Gold Mine will 
collect 1 Gold.
Players can place one Worker in the lowest-
numbered unoccupied plank in the King’s Camp.
Each player can only place 1 Worker in the King’s 
Camp per round.
King’s Camp (to claim a better Turn Order Crest during the Collection phase)
Players may only place a Worker onto a 
plank on their own built Property cards 
(not onto cards still in their hand).
Some planks show a Gold fee. The fee is 
paid to the supply.
Some planks are protected by a Gnome 
Lock. Such a plank is only available for 
placement if a Gnome has been placed to 
unlock it.
Property Cards (to perform that plank’s action during the Actions phase)
Passing & Resource Areas
Master Workers 
are very skilled at 
collecting from the 
Resource Areas... 
see the Collection 
phase for details. 
masters at work
Example: The 
Miner’s Guild is not 
owned by any player. 
A player could place 
a Worker on its plank 
by paying the 1 Gold 
fee to the supply. 
Depending on who (if anyone) owns a Guild, there is a fee of
1 Gold to place a Worker there (more on owning Guilds later).
If nobody owns it, the fee is paid to the supply.
If the placing player owns it, there is no fee.
If a different player owns it, the fee is paid to the owner.
Guilds (to perform that Guild’s action during the Actions phase)

Example: Red collects 2 Wood with her 
Master Elf. Yellow collects 2 Wood with 
his two Elves (1 Wood each). Yellow 
also collects 1 bonus Wood for having 
the most Elves in the Forest. 
(Remember, the Master only counts as 1 
Elf toward winning the bonus.) Both 
players reclaim their Elves.
Players now collect the Resources, Workers, Turn Order Crests, and Income they are due. The 
Collection board is resolved one area at a time from left to right, first the top row, then the bottom. 
As each area is resolved, the Workers there are reclaimed by their respective owners.
For each Elf a player placed in the 
Forest, that player collects 1 Wood. The 
single player with the most Elves in the 
Forest collects 1 bonus Wood. (If there is 
a tie for “most Elves”, nobody collects 
the bonus Wood.)
3. Collection
Resource Area: Forest
Example: Blue and Red collect 1 Stone 
each with their 1 Dwarf apiece. Since 
they are tied for “most Dwarves”, nobody 
gets the bonus Stone this round. They 
both reclaim their Dwarves.
For each Dwarf a player placed in the 
Quarry, that player collects 1 Stone. The 
single player with the most Dwarves in 
the Quarry collects 1 bonus Stone. (If 
there is a tie for “most Dwarves”, nobody 
collects the bonus Stone.)
Resource Area: Quarry
Example: Yellow collects 1 Metal with his 
Elf+Dwarf pair. Purple collects 2 Metal. 
(Remember, her Master Dwarf is counted 
as two Dwarves for collection purposes, 
so it can pair with her two Elves to 
effectively form two Elf+Dwarf pairs.) 
Purple also collects 1 bonus Metal for 
having the most Workers in the Mine. 
Both players reclaim their Workers.
For each Elf+Dwarf pair a player placed in 
the Mine, that player collects 1 Metal. The 
single player with the most Workers in the 
Mine collects 1 bonus Metal. (If there is a 
tie for “most Workers”, nobody collects the 
bonus Metal.)
Resource Area: Mine
Example: Blue collects 2 Gold with his 
two Workers. Red collects 4 Gold with 
her two Master Elves (2 Gold each). Since 
they are tied for “most Workers”, nobody 
gets the bonus Gold this round. They both 
reclaim their Workers. 
For each Worker a player placed in the 
Gold Mine, that player collects 1 Gold. 
The single player with the most Workers 
in the Gold Mine collects 1 bonus Gold. 
(If there is a tie for “most Workers,” 
nobody collects the bonus Gold.)
Resource Area: Gold Mine
The Resource Areas (Forest, Quarry, Mine, Gold 
Mine) are where your Master Elves and Master 
Dwarves shine. Each Master is counted as 2 
normal Workers of its type (Elf or Dwarf) for 
collection purposes only. So a Master Dwarf in the 
Quarry would collect 2 Stone while a normal 
Dwarf there would collect only 1 Stone.
Even though they’re great at collecting, your 
Master Workers still only count as 1 Worker each 
when determining who wins the bonus for a 
particular Resource Area (more on bonuses below).
Master Workers Explained

Example: Red has an Elf 
at the Recruiter’s Desk 
so she reclaims it and 
collects 1 new Elf from 
the supply. Blue has a 
Dwarf at the Recruiter’s 
desk so he reclaims it 
and collects 1 new 
Dwarf from the supply. 
Example: The 
players currently 
hold these Crests:
Yellow is first in the King’s Camp. He swaps his Crest 4 
for Red’s Crest 1 and flips his new Crest over.
Now that all players with a Worker in the King’s Camp 
have taken their turns, all crests are flipped back face up.
Red saw this coming during the Placement phase and 
made sure to be next in the King’s Camp. She can’t take 
the Crest 1 back because it has already been taken in this 
round. Instead she swaps her Crest 4 for Purple’s Crest 2 
and flips her new Crest over.
For each Worker placed at the Recruiter’s Desk, the 
owning player reclaims their Worker and collects one 
of their own Workers of the same type (Elf or 
Dwarf) from the Worker supply. This new Worker can 
be used for the remainder of the game.
Once all seven areas of the Collection board have 
been resolved, proceed to the Actions phase.
In placement order (left to right), each player 
with a Worker in the King’s Camp may swap 
Turn Order Crests with another player and 
reclaim their Worker. 
Recruiter’s Desk
Once all players in the King’s Camp have taken 
their turn, all Turn Order Crests are flipped 
back up to the colored side.
Each Crest can be taken only once per round; 
once a player has taken his turn in the King’s 
Camp, he flips his new Turn Order Crest face 
down (to the gray side) to indicate that it 
cannot be taken by anyone else this turn.
If there isn’t a Worker of the correct type left in 
the supply to take, the action is wasted and the 
player simply reclaims the placed Worker.
King’s Camp
Now the players 
hold these Crests:
The players end 
up with these 
Crests:
Example: Red has built a Keep, a Gatehouse, and a 
Tower. Only two of those three properties show an 
Income Coin, so she earns 2 Gold from the supply. 
Next we look at her Scoring marker. It is on space 
15 of the Scoring track, which falls under the 
2-Gold tax level. She pays 2 Gold to the supply; 
easy come, easy go! 
First each player collects 1 Gold from the supply for each 
Income Coin showing on their built Property cards. 
Then each player pays taxes according to the location of their 
Scoring Marker on the scoring track. (Each space on the Scoring 
track falls under a specific tax level.) For each Gold that a player 
cannot pay, they move their Scoring marker 1 space back on the 
score track. A player may not opt to lose points rather than pay 
taxes; all gold that can be paid, must be paid.
Income & Taxes
Amount
for this
Tax Level
Income Coins
The tax amount for the first 
Tax Level (spaces 1-5 on the 
Score Track) is zero Gold. 
Every time you move into a 
new Tax Level, the tax 
amount increases by 1 Gold. 
Try to keep your income 
higher than your taxes!
Taxes start low...
but climb quickly!

In turn order, players take Actions. First, the player with Crest 1 
completes all of the Actions he wants to (and is able to) perform, 
followed by the player with Crest 2, and so on until all players 
have taken their turn. Players can elect to do any or all of their 
possible actions in any order, any number of times unless other-
wise specified.
This card is now considered a built property; its 
planks (if any) are open for placement during 
the Placement phase, it can be staffed with a 
Gnome (if it has any Gnome Locks) to unlock 
other abilities, and it will earn income during the 
Collection phase (if it features an Income Coin).
4. Actions
Build Properties
Cost to build
Cost to build
Build Walls
Remember, there is no fee to place a Worker at the 
Guild if you own it. Also, if another player wants to 
place a Worker at your Guild, the fee is paid to you 
instead of to the supply. Ka-ching!
Build Guilds
Although the illustration is continuous, each Wall symbol is 
considered a separate Wall for all game purposes.
Example: Yellow has a Pub, Tower, and Bank 
card in his hand, and plenty of resources; looking 
at the board he notices that if he builds the Tower 
in a certain district, it will give him the district 
majority there. That helps him make up his mind; 
he spends the resources, places the Tower card in 
front of himself, and places one of his Property 
markers on the Tower symbol in that district.
Example: Yellow wants to strengthen 
his majority in the district, but his 
cards don’t match any of the 
unclaimed property symbols there. 
Luckily there’s still an unclaimed Wall 
symbol in the district. He spends the 
resources and places one of his 
Property markers on the Wall symbol.
Example: Yellow 
notices that people 
have been using the 
Miners’ Guild a lot, 
and supposes that it 
would be a nice source 
of income to own. He 
spends the resources 
and places one of his 
Property markers on 
its Guild Symbol.
Guild-o-nomics
Walls are not Properties and do 
not require a card to build. The 
cost of a Wall is 3 Wood+3 Stone (as 
shown on the Player Aids). To build, a 
player pays the cost to the supply and 
places one of his Property markers on 
any unclaimed Wall symbol on the 
game board. A player may build as 
many Walls as he can afford each turn.
A player can build any 
Property card in his 
hand by paying the 
resources listed on the 
card (to the supply), placing that card face up in 
front of him, and placing one of his Property 
markers on one of the unclaimed Property 
symbols of that type on the game board. 
Like Walls, Guilds are not Properties and do 
not require a card to build. To build an 
unclaimed Guild, a player pays the cost shown on 
the Guild tile to the supply, and places one of his 
Property markers on its Guild symbol. The player 
then owns that Guild. A player may build as many 
Guilds as he can afford each turn.
You can mix and match your 
actions however you like. For 
example you don’t have to build all 
your properties at the same time, or 
activate all your workers at the 
same time. Sometimes breaking up 
your actions wisely can allow you 
to achieve clever combinations.
Breaking up is hard to do
Cost to
build

A player can activate a Worker that he placed on a plank (on a Property 
card or at a Guild) during the Placement phase of this round. (See the 
Properties Appendix and the Guilds Appendix for details of the abilities 
of each.) All Workers are reclaimed as they are activated.
Cost
to
buy
Activate Previously-placed Workers
Once per turn a player may visit the Trading Post. 
Each Trading Post visit consists of up to 1 Buy action 
and up to 1 Sell action, in any order. Prices are listed 
on the Trading Post section of the Calendar board. 
All transactions “with the Trading post” are actually 
made between the player and the resource supply.
Visit the Trading Post (once per turn)
Once per turn a player may pay 3 Gold to the supply, 
take a Gnome from the stockpile, and place it on an 
unoccupied Gnome Lock on one of his built Property 
cards. The locked action/plank is immediately 
unlocked and becomes available for normal use. (See 
the Properties Appendix for Property abilities.)
A player may only hire a Gnome if he has an 
unoccupied Gnome Lock on which to place it.
At the end of his own turn, any player with more than 5 Property cards in his hand must discard 
any cards in excess of 5. Once all players in turn order have completed their turns, proceed to 
the Scoring phase.
A player must activate and reclaim every one of his placed 
Workers at some point during his turn.
There are a limited number of Gnomes available 
for hire per game. When they run out, no more 
may be hired.
Hire a Gnome (once per turn)
As the last action on a player’s 
turn, that player can pay 1 
Gold to the supply to buy one 
Property card from either the 
face up draw pool or the top of 
the draw deck. The bought 
card is added to the player’s 
hand. After buying from the 
draw pool, immediately turn 
another card face up from the 
deck to replace it.
Buy a Property card (once per turn, after all other actions)
Example: Yellow has Workers on planks on his own built Blacksmith card 
and at the Recruiters’ Guild on the board. Now he can activate them. He 
activates (and reclaims) his Worker on the Blacksmith card and collects 1 
Metal from the supply. Then he activates (and reclaims) his Worker at the 
Recruiters’ Guild and collects a Worker of any type from the supply; he 
chooses a Dwarf for his own reasons.
Example: Yellow sells 1 metal to the 
Trading post for 1 Gold, then uses the 
Gold to buy 1 Wood from them.
Example: Yellow’s built Inn has an unoccupied Gnome 
Lock. He pays 3 Gold to the supply, takes a Gnome from 
the stockpile, and places it on the Gnome Lock, unlocking 
it. The Inn’s newly unlocked plank will now be available 
to him in the next Placement phase.
Example: Yellow has done every-
thing else he wants to do, and his 
hand is a little depleted from this 
round’s actions. He pays 1 Gold to 
the supply and looks at his options. 
None of the cards in the draw pool 
interest him, so he takes a chance 
and draws a card from the deck. 
It’s a Keep, which he is happy to 
see. He keeps it secret and adds it 
to his hand. Since this action is 
always the last action of a player’s 
turn, Yellow’s turn is over. 

Determine majority for Elves, Dwarves and 
Gnomes separately. The player with the most 
Workers of each type receives 3 points. The 
player with the second-most receives 1 point.
Ties: If several players have the same 
number of a Worker type and tie for a 
position, then these players all receive 
the points normally awarded to the next 
rank down; all other positions below are 
also bumped to the next rank down.
Once all Scoring markers have been updated to reflect scoring for all 5 districts and all 3 Worker 
types, a new round begins, starting with the Calendar phase... unless this was the seventh and 
final round of the game. In that case, proceed to the End Game section to determine the winner!
Worker Majority
elves
dwarves
gnomes
Master Elves and Master Dwarves only 
count as 1 Elf or 1 Dwarf respectively.
The Gnomes being counted are the 
ones on built Property cards.
Elf Example: Red has the most Elves (5), so she earns 3 points. 
Yellow has 2nd-most (4) so he earns 1 point. Purple and Blue 
earn nothing for their 3 Elves apiece.
Gnome Example: Blue’s 3 Gnomes earn him the 1st-place score of 
3 points. All other players are tied with 2 Gnomes apiece, so they 
all bump down a level, right off the scoring chart to zero points.
Dwarf Example: Purple and Yellow are tied for most Dwarves 
(5), so they are both bumped down a scoring level and earn 1 
point each. Blue would have been in 2nd place with 4 Dwarves 
but he’s been bumped down off the scoring chart and earns 
nothing. Red’s 3 Dwarves earn her nothing.
If the Calendar marker is not on a red X, skip the Scoring 
phase; a new round begins starting with the Calendar phase.
The Scoring chart on each Player Aid displays the points 
earned for the majority types. As players earn points in either 
category they should move their markers on the Scoring track 
to reflect their new scores.
If the Calendar marker is on a red X, it’s time to score! (There 
are only three scoring rounds in the game, one at the end of each 
season on the calendar.) Points are awarded in two categories: 
District Majority and Worker Majority.
Score all five districts, but score each district separately. The player with the most 
Property markers in a district (counting all those on Property, Wall, and Guild 
symbols) receives 5 points, and the player with the second-most receives 3 points. 
In games with 4 or 5 players, the player with the third-most receives 1 point.
Ties: If several players have the same number of Property 
markers and tie for a position, then these players all receive 
the points normally awarded to the next rank down; all other 
positions below are also bumped to the next rank down.
4. Scoring
District Majority
the scoring chart
the calendar
Example: In this 4-player game, Blue 
has the most markers in this district (4), 
so he earns 5 points. Yellow and Purple 
are tied for second-most markers with 2 
apiece, so they both get bumped down 
to the next rank and earn only 1 point 
each. Red has been bumped right off the 
scoring chart and scores nothing.
When scoring districts, 
sometimes it helps to 
pull the current district 
out a bit; it’s easier to 
count Property markers 
that way.
divide and conquer
yellow
purple
blue
red

Belfort is fun and challenging as a 2-player game, but it needs some special rules to make up for fewer 
competing players. It is probably best if you are familiar with how Belfort plays with 3 or more players 
before attempting to play with 2 players. 
To play Belfort with only 2 players, each player is going to have limited control over a 3rd and 4th 
Non-Player (NP) that will compete for majorities in each district. Follow all the normal rules for 
Belfort with the following differences:
The only Interactive Guild that should be used is the Wizards’ Guild—and it is recommended that 
this one is used. Any other Basic or Resource Guilds can be used.
Choose two other colors to use as the NPs. The only things each NP needs are all 12 Property 
markers, some Workers (see below) and one of the Turn Order Crests marked 3 or 4. The one with 
Crest 3 will be NP3, and the one with Crest 4 will be NP4. Whichever player holds Turn Order 
Crest 1 will control NP3. Whichever player holds Turn Order Crest 2 will control NP4. If the player 
order changes, then so too does the NP that each player is controlling. (NP Crests never change.) 
Each player places one of their NP’s Dwarves on a Guild of their choice. Players cannot use a Guild 
while an NP Dwarf is there. Place 4 Elves and 4 Dwarves of each NP on the top of the Calendar board.
Appendix: 2-Player Game
Changes to Setup
Play as normal, but once the Actions phase is over, it’s time for the NP turns! Starting with the 1st 
player, that player chooses a Property card from the draw pool, or from the top of the deck. He then 
puts one of NP3’s Property markers onto any available symbol of the card’s type on the board, and 
discards the card. Then the 2nd player does the same for NP4. The draw pool is refreshed as needed.
Score each district as if it were a 4-player game; meaning there will be 1st, 2nd and 3rd places.
For Elf and Dwarf Majority, the NPs are counted as each having 4 Elves and 4 Dwarves (the Dwarves 
and Elves that you placed on the Calendar board are there as a reminder), so score accordingly.
After each NP has taken their turn, move their Dwarves one Guild clockwise on the board. (If the new 
Guild is owned by a player, the player collects the usual fee of 1 Gold from the supply.)
Changes to Gameplay
Changes to Scoring
The game ends after the third scoring phase (at the end of the seventh round). 
The player with the most points wins, and gets the Key to the City!
So you won! You triumphed against all odds, proved that you were the best one for the job in the first place, and probably 
made some friends along the way. Or not. What’s important is that you won. The King showers you with respect and 
gratitude; he awards you the Key to the City (strictly ceremonial—doesn’t actually unlock anything) and the magnificent 
title Master Castellan of Belfort! (Not to mention a very lucrative contract for future developments.) The Dwarves holler 
and toast you heartily, the Elves murmur and applaud softly, and the Gnomes go over your expenses and count your 
points again to make sure you got it right. The people of Belfort raise a loud cheer, and as you bask in their admiration 
your defeated opponents skulk off; perhaps to design an outhouse or supervise a hole-digging. Congratulations on a job 
very well done!
Ties: If there is a tie, then the tied player with the most resources (Wood, Stone, 
Metal and Gold) wins; Metal counts as 2 resources for tiebreak purposes. If 
there is still a tie, then the tied players share the victory.
End Game
sweet sweet victory.

These are the details for the ten Property card types in the game. 
There are five of each Property card in the deck. 
Appendix: Properties
Plank Action: Collect 1 Metal from the supply.
Gnome Lock’s Action: Once per turn during the Actions phase, 
you may buy 1 Metal from the supply by paying 1 Gold. 
BLACKSMITH
Gnome Lock’s Action: When you unlock this action with a Gnome, immediately upgrade one of your 
Elves to a Master Elf. This is accomplished by flipping one of your Elf tokens over so that the Master 
side is face up. This Elf remains a Master for the remainder of the game. You can always confirm how 
many Master Elves you are supposed to have by counting your Gardens with Gnomes.
GARDENS
Gnome Lock’s Action: Unlocks the plank for future use during the Placement phase.
Plank Action (once unlocked): (fee of 1 Gold to place a Worker) Collect 1 Dwarf or 1 Elf of your 
color from the Worker supply. This new Worker can be used for the remainder of the game. If there 
are no Workers of your own color remaining in the supply, this action is wasted. 
INN
Gnome Lock’s Action: When you unlock this action with a Gnome, immediately upgrade one of your 
Dwarves to a Master Dwarf. This is accomplished by flipping one of your Dwarf tokens over so that the 
Master side is face up. This Dwarf remains a Master for the remainder of the game. You can always 
confirm how many Master Dwarves you are supposed to have by counting your Pubs with Gnomes.
PUB
Gnome Lock’s Action: Unlocks the plank for future use during the Placement phase.
Plank Action (once unlocked): (fee of 1 Gold to place a Worker) Take 1 Gnome from the stockpile 
and place it on one of your own unoccupied Gnome Locks as if you had hired it. This Gnome does not 
count towards the normal 1-Gnome-per-round hiring limit. If there are no Gnomes left in the stockpile 
or if you do not have an unoccupied Gnome Lock, the action is wasted.
TOWER

Gnome Lock’s Action: Once per turn during the Actions phase, 
you may collect 1 Gold from the supply.
BANK
Plank Action: Collect 2 Gold from the supply.
First Gnome Lock’s Action: Every round, you may make a second visit to the Trading Post 
(consisting of up to one buy and up to one sell) during your turn in the Actions phase.
Second Gnome Lock’s Action: Every round, you may make a third visit to the Trading Post 
(consisting of up to one buy and up to one sell) during your turn in the Actions phase.
MARKET
Metal plaque: Each Gatehouse straddles two districts and has two symbols. When you build 
the Gatehouse, choose only one symbol and place your Property marker there.
Gnome Lock’s Action: Place a second Property marker on the unoccupied symbol of any one 
Gatehouse upon which you already have one marker.
GATEHOUSE
Metal Plaque: Each section of the Keep has two symbols. When you build a section of the Keep, 
place Property markers on both symbols (in the same district). 
KEEP
Plank Action: Draw 2 cards from the top of the draw deck into your hand, then discard any 2 cards 
from your hand. (Discarded cards may include either, both, or none of the drawn cards.)
Gnome Lock’s Action: When you have finished your turn during the Actions phase, draw 1 free 
card from the top of the draw deck into your hand. Discard down to 5 cards if necessary.
LIBRARY

Action: Pick any unclaimed Property, 
Wall, or Guild symbol on the board and 
place one of your Property Markers on it. 
Pay the usual build cost of that location 
to the supply, with a discount of 1 Metal 
or 2 Wood/Stone. 
No Property card is used.
Building a Property via the Architects’ 
Guild may result (now or later) in a 
player having a Property card in hand, 
with no matching unclaimed Property 
symbol on the board; in that case the 
player cannot build the Property and 
that card is therefore useless.
If you build a section of the Keep, 
place Property markers on both 
symbols. If you build a Gatehouse, 
choose which symbol upon which to 
place your marker.
Build costs for all Properties and 
Walls are shown on your Player Aid; 
build costs for all Guilds are shown 
on their tiles.
Appendix: Guilds
You cannot collect an Elf/Dwarf if 
there are none of your own left in 
the supply.
You cannot collect a Gnome if there 
are none left in the stockpile or if 
you do not have an unoccupied 
Gnome Lock upon which to imme-
diately place it.
If you can collect neither Elf nor 
Dwarf nor Gnome, this action is 
wasted. 
Action: Collect 1 of your own Elves 
or Dwarves from the supply, to be 
used as normal for the remainder of 
the game, or collect 1 Gnome from 
the stockpile and immediately place 
it on an unoccupied Gnome Lock on 
one of your built Property cards. 
RECRUITERS’ GUILD
Each Trading Post visit consists of 
up to 1 buy and 1 sell action.
If you do not use your additional 
visits during this Action phase, they 
are wasted.
Action: Up to twice during this Action 
phase, you may receive 1 Metal from 
the supply in exchange for 1 Wood or
 1 Stone.
Second Action:You are also permitted 
three additional visits to the Trading 
Post during this Action phase. 
MERCHANTS’ GUILD
The discard may be one of the 
freshly drawn cards.
Action: Draw 3 Property cards from the 
top of the draw deck into your hand, 
then discard 1 card from your hand.
LIBRARIANS’ GUILD
BASIC GUILDS
ARCHITECTS’ GUILD

Action: Collect 4 Wood 
SAWYERS’ GUILD
Action: Collect 2 Metal 
MINERS’ GUILD
Action: Collect 3 Gold 
BANKERS’ GUILD
Action: Collect 4 Stone 
MASONS’ GUILD
Action: Pick a player and steal up 
to 3 Gold from that player, or steal 
1 Gold apiece from up to three 
different players.
THIEVES’ GUILD
Action: Each other player chooses 
one Property card from his own 
hand and reveals it face up. From 
among the revealed cards, you pick 
one of them and take it into your 
own hand. All other cards are kept 
by their owners.
SPIES’ GUILD
Pick a player and steal either 1 Metal 
or up to 2 Wood/Stone from that 
player, or steal 1 Wood/Stone apiece 
from up to three different players.
BANDITS’ GUILD
Action: Pick two Properties of the 
same type, or two Guilds, or two 
Walls. Move all Property markers (if 
any) from one location to the other, 
and vice versa.
WIZARDS’ GUILD
If a Gatehouse receives 1 marker as 
part of the swap, you choose which 
symbol it goes on.
INTERACTIVE GUILDS
RESOURCE GUILDS

Game Design
Jay Cormier
& Sen-Foong Lim
Graphic Design
and rules editing
Copyright 2011
Tasty Minstrel Games, L.L.C.
www.tastyminstrelgames.com
Joshua Cappel
Jay and Sen would like to thank the following people for playtesting and providing 
us with invaluable insight during the lengthy development of this game:
Matt Musselman, Xavier Cousin, Greg Bride, Nancy McCune, Marc Casas-Cordero, 
Kevin & Jen Wilson, Michael Campsall, Alex Cann, Jan Kraft, Ian Darling, Al Cormier, 
Robina Ritchie, Steve Mason, Jen Mockry, Shawn Perry, Leroy Wissing, Errol Elumir, 
Herb Regalo, and Kevin & Brian Carlson
Thanks to the following people
for their never-ending support:
Carrie, Ethan & Eli, and the Stevensons
And thanks to Seth Jaffee for his help in developing Belfort,
Josh Cappel for his beautiful art, and Michael Mindes for his support and guidance.
No Gnomes were harmed in the making of this game. Some Trolls were though.
Game Development
Seth Jaffee