The Enemy at the Gates 
CopVrlght @ 1980, Simulatiorll Publications, Inc., New Vori<, N.Y., 10010 
Read this First: 
The rules of Ihis s ri simulation game arc or· 
gani~ed in B formal known as the Ctlu$ys"m. 
This system of organization divides the rules 
inlo MfljO, St'rtlotU (each of which deals with 
an important aS1)('C1 of play), Th~ Sections 
arc num~"d sequentially ilS well as being 
named. Each of Ih($(' Major Sections is intro-
duced by a General Rule, which brieny de-
scribes the subject of the &clion. Many times 
Ihis General Rule is followed by a Proudurc 
which describes the basic aClion the Player will 
take when using the rules in Ihal Section. Final-
ly. the bulk of each Major Section consists of 
Corsu. These arc the speciric, detailed rules 
Ihal actually regulate play. Each of these Cases 
is also numbertd-. The numbering follows. 
10llieal system baSC'd upon the number of the 
Major Section of which the Cases are a pari. A 
Cas~ with the number 6.S, for example, is the 
fifth Primary CaSf! of lhe sixth Major Section 
of the rules. Many times these Primary Cases 
are fUrl her subdivided into S«ondary Ctu6. 
A Secondary Case is recoaniuble by the faCI 
that it has two dillils 10 the right of itS decimal 
point. Each Major Section can have u many as 
nine Primary Cases and each Primary Case can 
have as many as nine Secondary Cues. The 
numbering sYStem is mean! as an organiUllion. 
al aid. Using it, Players can always easily tell 
where a Case is located in the rules. As a fur· 
Iher aid, an oUlline of the Major Sections and 
Primary Cases is liven at the beginning of the 
rules. 
How theS«tion lind Case Numbers 
Work: 
Major Sec/ion Number 
Primary Case Number 
Ilndar)' Case Number 
[6.53) 
1.0 INTRODUCfION 
1.0 GAMt: EQUIi'Mt:NT 
1.1 TheGa~M.p 
U Charts and Tabln 
!oJ T .... Plllyini Pi«a 
U Galnl' Sc:ak 
1.' Parts Invnnory 
J.O St.TfING UP TlU: GAMt: 
•• 0 St:QUENCE Of PI.A Y 
!.O MOYEMENT 
'.1 MOVenJf'nl Rl:lItrkllc)lts and PrOhibitions 
The precedin& example would be the number 
of the third Secondary Case of Ihe fiflh Pri· 
mary Case of the sixth Major Section of Ihe 
Rules. 
How 10 Ltarn 10 Play the Game: 
Familiarize yourself wilh all of the compo-
nentS. Read all of IheGeneral Rules and Proce· 
dures and read the Iilla of the Primary Cases. 
Sct up the game for play (after reading the per. 
tinem Section) and playa trial game against 
yourself referring to the Tules only when you 
have a question. This procedure may take you 
a few hours, but il is the fastesl and most enter· 
laining way to learn lhe rules shon of having a 
friend teach them 10 you. You should not al· 
lempt to learn lhe rules word·foT·word. Mem· 
orizing all that detail is a task of which few of 
us arc capable. SPI rules arc written to be as 
complele as possible -
they're nOl designed to 
be memorized. The Case numbering sySlem 
makes it easy to look up rules when you are in 
doubt. Absorbing the rules in this manner (as 
you play) is a much beller approach to game 
maSlery Ihan allempling to study them as if 
crammin& for a lest. 
We hope you enjoy this SP I game. Should you 
have any difnculty interpreting the rules, 
please write to SP I, phrasing your questions so 
that they can be answered by a simple sentence, 
word, or number. You must enclose a stamp-
ed, self·addressed envelope. We cannOI guar· 
antet a proper answer should you choose to 
phone in your question (the right person is nOI 
al ..... ys available -
and since SPI has publish-
ed hundreds of games, no one individual is 
capableof answering all questions). Write to; 
' PI 
Rules Questions Editor for 
Berlin '85 
257 Park Avenue South 
New York, N.Y. 10010 
5.1 Effe<:u of Terrain 
5.J Effe<:1J of Other Friendly Units 
i.1 ZONE'S OF COSTROL 
i.1 Effe<:tl on MOYemml 
i .1 Mult,pIe Zones 
1.0 COMBAT 
1.1 Whidt Uni" An-.c:k 
1.1 Mult,pk Unit and Multi·Hex Combat 
1.3 Combat SlTen,th Unity 
1.4 Effe<:t.ofTerrain 
1.S Divcnlonar)' Attach 
Rt~tO \' ING Till:: It UU ::S FItOM THIS ISSUt:: 
1.i ComlHot Re§Oiution 
1.1 How 10 Retreat 
1.1 Ot5p~mcnl 
1.' Adyan« Aftc. Combat 
1.0 ARTILU:RY 
1. 1 8ar.aae Al1acks 
'.1 Combined Anach 
I.) Adjacent Anad. 
1.4 Final Prot«1iYe Fire (FPFj 
I.' Ddcnsc 
I.i TCl11lin Eff«1S 
1.1 Unit IntqnlY 
U Poi$on Gas (Optional) 
9.0 AIRPOWt:R 
9.1 R~lric l ionl and Prohibillons 
9.1 All Superiority 
10.0 COLLATERAt. I)AMAGE 
10. 1 Ho .. Collaleral ~ 
II Eff«ted 
10.1 Whkh HUI:lI Can 1n<;U' Collatcral Damaac 
10.) Tnrain Effecll On Collateral Dam&&C 
10.4 LlmnallOM on Collateral Dam~ 
10.5 EffeclJ of Ruin on bistin, T(1'Tlin 
10.6 Coll.lt,.1 Dam.ac T.bk 
to.l Fi,cslo.m 
11.0 UNTRn:n UN IT STRt:NGTH 
12.0 BRIDG E tn;MOUTION 
13.0 RnN.·ORC.::~U:"'TS 
1).1 Rt$lric!lorut on Reinf()f'temtnll 
13.1 Airlandm, Reinforccmm" 
14.0 SUPi''''' 
14.1 Supply Soo.tel 
14.1 Tradn, Ltnl:ll of Supply 
1~.3 Supply Efre<:ls 
lS.0 TIn: lJ·BA I-iN 
16.0 NIGUT GAME-TlJRNS 
\6.1 AilllO"'er al NiJht 
li.1 NiJht MoYelnl'nt 
n.o NATO Ef>U:RCF,NCV RElNl'O RCEMENTS 
17.1 Reinfor«mcnt Table Rewlls 
17.1 Reinfor<:Clnl'nI Prohibitions 
17.1 Reinforcement Table 
" .0 PARATROOPS 
11.1 Sc:al1er uta.ram 
11.2 Plratroop Oatruction 
11.3 DrOp Eli,ibility 
11.4 First Tllrn Rl:lItrictioM 
11.5 SU .... tVlI T.bk 
11.6 SU .... i~.1 ModiflCl"l 
19.0 " IIONOMS m' WAR" 
\9. 1 Rl:lIull5 
19.1 Rl:lItrietiorut 
It.) Ilono ... of Wlr Tabl~ 
1f.4 Surrende. Points 
It.5 Surrender Poinll Record Tnd 
20.0 VICfOtl\, CONOITIONS 
20.1 City Conlrol 
le.1 YltiOTY EVII'"l1ion 
11.0 SCENAtllOS 
11.1 Opt-ration Unily 
11.2 Opt-Tllion Werewolf 
11.) OpcTltion Medicine. Whttl 
Open Iht ml,uint to Iht ernie" brnd tltt ~ llplrs .. I,h I pcnl.:nift or sc,tl'l·d,h·tr; lifl oulthe ,"IH I nd elOK 51.p'~. 
Rl 

R2 
[1.0] INTRODUCTION 
Berlin, '85 is an opcralionallcvclsimuialion of a 
IiYPOlhc\ica! allcmpl by the Warsaw PaCI to seize 
lhe city of West Berlin wilhin Ihcconlexl ora gen-
eral conventional Easl~Wesl war. The playing 
pi~s r('presenl the aClUalunits which could con-
ceivably bl'(:ome involved. The game map rcprt'-
StillS Ihe aellla] Inra;" of Ikrlin and East Ger-
many o\'cr wllich such a baule would be fought. 
Tht' two players (NATO and Warsaw Pact) ma-
neuver thcir units across the map and conduct 
combat according 10 the rules of play. Victory is 
determined at the end of Game-Turn 16 or when· 
ever lhe Warsaw Pact Player achieves comrol of 
the city (whichever comes first). 
[2.0] GAME EQUIPM ENT 
The game equipmclIl consists of Ihe rules, map. 
chans and tables (primed on the map). one sheet 
of 200 die-cut playing pieces, and two dice. 
(2_11 THt: GAME MAP 
The 22" x)2" game map represents all of West 
Berlin as well as the mrrounding countryside. 
A hexagonal grid has been superimposed over Ihe 
terrain features on the mapsheet in order to regu-
late the positioning and mo\'cment of the playing 
pieces. To make Ihe mapsheet lie nat, back fold it 
against the machine-made folds_ Players wi ll note 
thai each heJlagon (h~r~after called Itu) has its 
own four digit identity number. 
\2.2] CHARTS AN D TABLES 
A number of aids are included to assist in play: the 
Terrain Effects Chart. Reinforcement Table. 
Combal Results Table, Turn Record Track. Survi-
val Table. Surrender Points Record Track, Colla-
teral Damage Table, Sl:aller Table, and "Honors 
of War" Table. The- usc ofe-ach is explained in the 
appropriate Rules Sections. 
[2.31 THE I'LAYI NG PIECES 
The cardboard playing pieces (hereafter called 
unils) represent Ihe military and paramilitary for-
mations whkh could be- involved in a balliC' in the 
Berlin area. The numbers and symbols on Ihe 
pieces represent their Combat Strenglhs (Allack 
and Defense), movement capability. type, size. 
name, and (in the case of artillery) Barrage 
Strength. Final ProtCl:tivc Fire (FPF) Strength, 
and Range. Each unit is printed on both sides. One 
side is an untried side. which is wrned up at the 
beginning of play, and Ihe other is a tried side. 
which is turned up when Ihe unit participates in 
combat. Note: Artillery unilS do not have an un-
tried side. Their back face bears a tag showing 
their unit type and dC5ignation as an aid to sorting 
between games. 
A number of markers are included to represent the 
allO(ation of Air Ground Support Points. Each 
marker represents one Ground SuppOrt Point _ A 
few piCl:cS do not represent military formations. 
These are markers used to indicate fires, ruins. 
persistent poison gas, and destroyed bridges, and 
to record the passage of Game-Turns and the ac-
cumulation of Surrender Points. 
12.31J How to Rud the Unit De:si&nltions 
NON-ARTILLERY UN IT 
UnIlS;~~ 
'" 
Ullit [)esignQtion 
$ I§§J 
UnilTy~ 
AlI<lCkStrength 
3-6-12 
a,f~fLJt!!St"ngth 
MoW!mentAlloWQncc 
$I§§J 
ARTILLERY UNIT 
FPFStrength 
/JarrtlgtSlrrngth 
Unll Type 
4·0·20 
1 "I;;; 
1·10 '" 
D<:/ellMStrength 
UNIT TYPES 
Fronl 
:0 
WI 
'::0.2.S 
.. ....!!.... ... 
' -2-S 
c 8G 'II 
EI8l~ 
1-2-S 
"'§
iQ 
4·3·12 
" -
.. ~~ 
2·3-6 
-I§] 
5-2-12 
,~ 
o@g 
2-1-15 
West Berlin Police 
Infantry 
Paratroop 
Tank (Armored) 
RangeAlloWtlncc 
Unit Designation 
G!J, 
1!;ijJ -
U.1t 
=[Q] 
U·12 
, . 
- Ii>!" 
U·1SZ 
" gl8J 
2·5-12 
"1!Bl& 
5·2·12 
fii!B!] 
' ·2·12 
*rnID5 
0·3-12 
3·2-14 
"'@l§ 
2-12 . 
4420 
~. 
1_10 ° 
1-2-4 e 
~ . 
4-12 
Commalldo 
Military Polict 
Towed Artillery 
Ruin Marter 
UN IT SIZI:'.S 
., 
~ 181 
I '~' I 
c " ' 
~~ 
U-'2 
c , 
EffiID 
I=Company: II= B3ttalion: II I _ R~gimen!; BO 
= Bailie Group. 
Units may be identified by a single number or by a 
two-pan designation. In two-part delignations, 
th~ number to the right of the unit symbol is Ihe 
unit's superior formation_ This may be a division, 
regiment, or brigade. Police units are identified by 
a neighborhood or administrative district name. 
Battalion-sized units are numbered consecutively 
within the division. when the division is the 
superior formation shown. As a general rule, there 
are three battalions per brigade, and three brigades 
or regiments per division. 
Some 
designations 
have 
been abbreviated: 
G = Guards; EB .. East Berlin: EG = East Oer-
many; 
SI'B = 
5ccteur 
Francais de 
Berlin; 
SFDB = Special 
Forees 
Detachment 
Berlin; 
LOS - Labor Guard Service; 
USA .E ~ Uniled 
States Army Europe; SSG ", Support Bailie 
Group; WG = The Welsh Guards; RAN .. The 

Royal Anglians; GH _ The Grcen Howards; 
PR _ The Parachute Regiment: RA .. RO)'al Ar-
tillery: RSDG - Royal Scots Dragoon Guards; 
Jg _ Jagerbrigade; C:"C" Company: F . "F" 
ComP'lny. 
[2.lll Odlnltion of Tu ms 
iff/lid Slrenl,h is the rehllive sHength of a non· 
artillery unit used to attack other unin, and is ex-
pressed in terms of Auaek Strength Poims. 
Orf rnsr SfrC'nlfh is the relative strength of a unit 
u'it'd 10 defend against the anacks of Enemy units. 
and is elCpressed in terms of Defense Strenglh 
Points. 
Combaf S,rtnl,h is the relalive strength of a unit 
(as used in either attack or dden'it') and is e:tpress-
ed III lerms of Combal Strenglh Points. 
&rrlll' Slrrnllh LS the relative strength of an ar-
[illery unLt when attacking Enemy units. and IS cx-
prnscd in terms of Barrage Strenglh Poinn. 
Final Protrrl/,·' Fir, (FPF) Strtnllh is Ihe relati"e 
ability of an arlillery unit to add 10 the Defense 
St rength of Friendly units, and is e:tpressed in 
terms of FPF Strength Poims. 
M"",mC'f!I AII" II'anu is the ma:timum number of 
clear terram he.\" Ihrough which a unil may move 
in a single i\;IoHmem Pha'it'; each such hex reo 
qULres the expendilure of one Movemem Poinl of 
the Mo,emenl Atlo"ance. More than one Mo,e-
ment Point may be expended for some hexes. 
Hanf' AlloII'lIner is the m3JIimum number of 
hexes that may lie bet .... ecn the hex OCCUPLed by an 
artillery unit using its fPF or Sarrage Strength (e\-
elusive). 10 the defending unil's hex (inelusivc). 
[2.41 GAMt: SCALE 
Each hc.\ on the map represems one kilometer of 
real terrain from side to side_ Each Game·Turn is 
equivalem 10 8 hours of real lime. E'ery third 
Game·Turn is a nighl Game-Turn (tinted on the 
Turn Record Track). 
(2.5[ PARTS INVENTORY 
Each copy of Hulin, '1$ should include: 
22· x 32" map 
I sh«t of 200 die-cuI playing pieces 
rulebook 
2 dicc (nol included in S&T Edition) 
Uo~ assembly (nO! included in S&T Edition) 
If ally of these paris arc missing or dUlllbgcd, fill 
OUI the Complaint Card endosed iothe game (nol 
in S&T edil ion) and return it to SP I with the ap.-
propriate items ~ hecked on the card. 
Thosc who ha. e the S&T edition of Berlin '8' 
should address their complaints 10: 
Cuslomer Scf\'ice 
Simulations Publications, Inc. 
2H Park Avenue South 
New York. New York 10010 
Note; The process used in Ihe manufacturing of 
the die·~ut counters used io SPlgames sometimes 
results in colors from one counter o~crlappinglhe 
color of a neighboring ~oumer, or in the slightly 
off-cenler prillting of the letters and/or numbers 
on a coumcr. SPI cannot replace coumcrs display· 
ing these minor manufacluring inaccuracies. Only 
coumers that arc illegible can be replaced by SP I. 
[3.0] SElTlNG UP 
THE GAME 
GE~E R AL RULE: 
Thc ~ardboard playing pieces should be carcfully 
punched out of the uoil coumer sheet and sorted 
by color and type. Players should then decide 
w h lc~ sidc each will play and sclect a scenario. Thc 
playing pieces are SCt up according to the rules for 
each indi~idual scenario as described in this Rules 
Section. 
PROCE DU RE; 
The Players consul! the Initial Deploymenl listed 
in the scenario. Included there is a list of Ihe 
strengths of each unil which is in play (on the map) 
during the first Game-Turn. Unit values are lisled 
as follows; Combal Strength (shown as a "U" )-
Movemem Allowance. For artillery unilS: Barrage 
Strength- Final Protcrlive Fire (FP n Strenglh-
Range Allowance- Defense Strength-Mo"ement 
Allowance. Players will be instructed to sct up 
their units wilhin defined parameters. In all ~ases 
Ihe NATO Player SCtS up his forc" first. follo-..--ed 
by Ihe Warsaw Pact Pla)·er. Units used in the 
scenario, but not av"ilable on map at the start of 
the game. arc set aside and brought inlo play ac-
cording to the rules gO"crning reinforcement. 1'1101 
all unilS are used in every scenuio. 
[4.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
G ENE RAL RULE: 
The game is played in successive Game-Turns, 
composed of allernatin, Playef-Turns. During 
each Game·Turn the Players maneuver their units 
and resol"e combal III sequence acrording to the 
following outline and "'it hm Ihe limits of Ihe rules 
which follow. AI the conclusion of Game-Turn 16 
(or at the conclusion of any Game·Turn in which 
the Warsaw Pact Player controls Berlin) Ihe game 
ends and ~iclory is a$sessed. 
SEQUENCE OUTLIN E 
The Game-Turn is dividl-d into a Warsaw Pact 
Player·Turn and a NATO Playcr-Turn. The War-
SH W Pact Player-Turn is always executed first. The 
Player whose Player-Turn is currently in progress 
is lermed Ihe Phasing Pla)·er. The acti~ity which 
he may undertake is outlined be'low. 
I. Mo\Cment "hllst 
The Phasing Player's un liS may move in any direc· 
lion(s) up to the limits of their indi,-idual ]'.Iove-
ment Allowances within the rest riclions of the 
rules of movemem. Zones of Control, terrain ef-
feclS, elC. The Phasing Player may bring reinforce-
ments onlO the map according to the reinforce-
ment rules and as allowed by the Reinfor,emcnt 
Schedule for the scenario. Thc non-Phasing Player 
may not mo,'e his units. No combal is allowed. 
2. Combat "hast 
The Phasing Player condUClS attacks againSI the 
non-Phasing Player'$ unilS in Ihe ord~r chosen b)' 
the Phasing Pla)~r . Each anack is ~onducled ac-
cording to th.c followmg sequenced procedure: 
A. Th~ Phasing Player 5ta les which of his ground 
units arc altacking which ddeoding units. 
U. The Phasing Player allocales Sarrage Stnngth 
Points (if he wishes) from non-adjacenl artillery 
units and Ground Support Points. 
C. The non-Phasi ng Playcr allacaln Final Pro-
teclive Fire Strength (if he wishes) from 11011-
adjacem ar!illery units and ground support points. 
D. The Combal Differemial (Iotal allacking 
Slrellglh minus lotal defending strength) is calcu-
lated. Ihe die is rolled, and the indicated r" ult (see 
Combat Results Table) IS immediately applied. 
The "They Shall Not Pass" oplion may now be ex-
ercised. 
E. The Phasing Player checks for collaleral 
damage where such is possible due 10 con~emra­
tions of arti1l~T)' and hex Iype. 
This concludes the Player-Turn . This sequence is 
repealed by Ihe opposing Player in the same man· 
ncr, at which time the Game-Turn is over and the 
Game-Turn Marker is ~dvanced one DoX on the 
Turn Record Track. Players continue to follow 
Ihis sequen~e unlil Ihe Warsaw Pact Player cap.-
tLlres Berlin or the end of Game-Turn 16. which-
e"er comes first. 
[5.0] MOVEMENT 
During the Mo,·~ tnenl Phase, any numbe'r of Phas-
ing unilS may move through contiguous he:tcs in 
Hny dircclion(s) within the limitations of 5. 1 
through 5.3. Movemem may be affected by night 
(16.0). supply status (14.0) or Ihe use of undf'r-
ground mo,'emenl via the U-Bahn (15.0). Warsaw 
Pact unilS may be forced to imerrupt mo,'ement 
"hile the NATO Player rolls for bridge demolilion 
(12.0). 
Unils mo,'e one al a time, lracing a path of con-
tiguous he:tes through the h~:t grid . Each umt pays 
one or more Movemenl PoinlS from il$ Movement 
Allowance 10 enter e3~h he:t. 
[5. 1[ MQvt:MENT Rt::5TRICfIONS 
AN I) PROHIBITIONS 
[5. 111 Movement may never take pla« out of se-
quence. Phasing unilS may move during their own 
Mo\ement Phase. only. During the Combat 
Phase, a unit which is aHacking or defending may 
be called upon to ad"ance or retreat after combat 
is resolved. This is not considered mO\ement and 
uses no Movemem Points. During the Enemy 
Player's Movement Phase. f riendly unils may nOI 
m o~e. 
[5. 1l] A Friendly unil may ne~er e111er a hex con-
taining an Enemy unil. 
[5.131 A unit may never e~pend more MO\'emenl 
I'oims than lIS total Mo'ement AUo"'ance in any 
one Mo~ement phase. A unit may expend any or 
all of ils Mo'emem Poims in its 1I.lovement Phasc. 
Units are never forced to mO\e. Ho .... ·e'·er. unuscd 
Movement Pomts may not be accumulaled or 
Iransferred . 
[5. 141 A unit may nOI e:tit an Enemy COlli rolled 
he.\ during a Mo'cmenl Phase of a day Game-
Turn. An Enemy controlled hc~ may be Idt only 
durin!, a retreal or advance HS a result of combat or 
as D result of Dlsengagemenl during a nigh I Game· 
Turn (sce 16.22). 
[5. 15] Orlce a unil has moved and the Player's 
hand has been wilhdrawn it may not move fLIrt her 
during Ihe Player-Turn. 
[5. 161 The ability of units to mO\e to their full 
allo"ance IS affected by their supply status. A unll 
may be eilher supplied or unsupplied. Unsupplied 
units ha\e their Movement Allowance halved 
(round do .... n). St!t 14.0. 
[5. 111 Wesl Ik-rlin police unils may not move or 
rei real oul of West Uerlin. Irforced 10 do so, they 
arc eliminaled. 
[5. 181 No police units on either side may e\er 
volunlarily entcr an Enemy zoe. If forced to do 
so, they arc eliminated. 
(5.2] t:n "[(.,.s OF TERRA.IN 
[5.2 1] A unit must upend one Mo,'ement Point to 
enter a eIear terrain hex. To enter other types of 
he.\es. a unit may have 10 expend more than one 
Movement Point. St!t the Terrain Errecu Chart 
printed on th.c mapshect. 
[5.lll A unil .... hich movcs from one road hc:t 
directly into an adjacent road hex throullh a road 
hexside (i.e .. one conlaining the rOlld symbol) e~­
pends only I Movelllent Point regardless of the 
other terrain in the hex. 
R3 

R4 
[S.B] A unil wllich moves from one AUlobahn 
hex to an adjacent Autobahn 
hc~ through an 
Au tobahn hexsidt expends VI Movement Point 
rcgardlcss of the olher terrain in Ihe he", 
[5.24] A unit which moves from ont U-Bahn hex 
directly in10 an adjacent U-Bahn hex through a 
U-Bahn hexsidc while "underground" e)l~nds 2 
Mo"emenl Poims regardless of the other lerrain in 
the hex. The Phasing Player must stale that he is 
using underground movemen/ upon enlering a hex 
in this manner. Units may n01 use U-Bahn move-
ment to exil an Enemy cOlllrolled hex in which 
they begin thcir Movemem Plmse (5«' 15.0). 
[5.25J The C0515 10 cross waler hcxsides. ferry hex-
sides. bridge hexsides. and border hcxsides aTC 
assessed in addition 10 the costs to enter the lerrain 
in the hex. Note thaI bridges are implied wherever 
a road or Autobahn nosses a water hexside. Un it~ 
crossing ferry or bridge hexsides pay the ferry or 
bridge cost (not the water COSt) for that hexside. 
Roads and U-Bahns do not extend across border 
hexsidCli. Autobahns do extend through border 
hexsides. Note: The rail line has no effa:t on 
movement. 
[5. 26) A unit may not enleT a hex if it does nOl 
have sufficient Movement Points remaining \0 pay 
the Movement Point cost \0 enter the hex and the 
hexside being crossed. Nott': Units may enter lake 
hnes, but may not end Iheir Movement Phase in a 
lake hex . They arc destroyed if they al1emptto do 
so. 1t costs 9 Movement Points \0 traverse a lake 
he}! ( I for the he)! and 8 for the entry and e}!it hn· 
sides). Thus, a police unit (8 MP's) would never be 
able to enter a lake hex becau~e the unit would not 
then have sufficient MP's left to continue moving 
out of the hex. 
[5.21) Terrilln Efr« ls CharI 
(see mapsheet) 
(5.3) HH:<'.'TS Ot" OTHER 
FRIENDLY UNITS 
[5.31 ) A Friendly unit may move through Friend· 
ly occupied or controlled helles at no elltra Move-
ment Point cost, but may not end the Movement 
Phase stacked in the same he;.; with another 
Friendly unit. Slacking is prohibited. 
[5.32) There is no limit to the number of Friendly 
units that may pass through a single hex in one 
Game·Turn. 
[6.0[ ZONES OF 
CONTROL 
The si}! he~agons immediately surrounding a hex 
constitute the Zone of Control (ZOC) of any unit 
in that he}!. HeJles upon which a unit exerts a Zone 
of Control are called controlled hexes and inhibit 
Ihe movement of Enemy units. All units must 
cease movement when they enter an Enemy con-
!rolled hex (EXctpllon: see 5.24). Units in an 
Enemy Zone of Control are forced to a!lack dur-
ing their Combat Phase. Supply cannot be traced 
through an Enemy controlled hl'}! which is nOt oc· 
cupied by a Friendly unit (Exerplion: sec 14.22). 
(6.IJ EFF[(.'TS ON MOVEMENT 
[6.11 ) All units exert a Zone of Control at all 
limes. The presence of Zones of Control is never 
affected by other units, Enemy or Friendly. except 
when tracing supply. 
[6. 12) Units do not pay any additional Movement 
Points to enter an Enemy controlled hex. Units us-
ing the disengagement option during night Game-
Turns pay two Movement Points to exit an Enemy 
Zone of Control. 
[6.1J] There are only three ways to exit a hex in an 
Enemy Zone of Control: by retreat or advance a~ a 
resull of combat; by removal orthe Enemy unit e}!-
erting the Zone of Control as a result of combat: 
or by disengagement (see 16.22). 
[6. 14] Zones of Control extend into all types of 
hexes except ruin and urban hexes and across all 
types of hexsides except water hexsides. Zones of 
ContrOl do nOl extend into ruin or urban hexes. 
They do extend OUI of urban and ruin hexes. The 
presencc of ferries or bridges does not negate the 
effa:t of water hexsides on Zones of Control. 
(6.2J MULTIPLE ZONES 
]6.21) If there are both Enemy and Friendly Zont'!i 
of Control exerted in a given hex, both Zones ca-
exist and the hex is mutuall) controlled by both 
Players. 
[6.22) There is no additional effeet when more 
than one unit exerts a Zone of Control into a given 
hex. 
[6.23) In mOSt instances, if a gi\en unit is in an 
Enemy controlled hex. the Enemy unit is al~o in its 
controlled hex and they are equally and mutually 
affcrted. When a unit is in an urban or ruin hex, 
that unit's Zone of Control extends out of the hex, 
but the Zones of Control of adjacent units do not 
extend into the urban or ruin hex. This principle is 
important in determining" ho must a1\ack and/or 
be 311acked during the Combat Phase. 
[7.0J COMBAT 
Combat between adjacent opposing units in each 
other's Zones of Control is mandatory. Art illery 
units are the only units which may attack units 10 
which they are not adjacent. See also Airpower 
Rull:S (9.0) for the effect of Ground Support 
Strength Points. The Phasing Player is termed the 
attacker; the other Player is the defender. regard· 
less of overall strategic situation. All auacks mUSt 
be announced at the beginning of the Combat 
Phase, and Ihe defender must be given the option 
to allrn;ate FPF. AIl1!cks are then resolved indivi-
dually according to the following procedure. 
NOlr: Players may disregard this stricture and 
both announce and resoh'C each comba t sequenti-
ally upon mutual agreement. This method of con-
ducting combat allows anomalies 10 creep into the 
rules and is fro" ned upon by the developer, but it 
does tend to speed play. 
The OUtCOme of each combat situation may be af-
fected by the terrain occupied by the units. their 
supply Status, morale. and by the presence of ruins 
and poison gas as well as by special bonus shifts. 
Combat eHeets are exprl:Ssed in terms of units of 
one or both Players retreated or destroyed. 
Total the Allack Strcngth, Barrage Strength. and 
Ground Support Strcngth of all attacking units in-
volved in a specific attack : tOlal Ihe Defense 
Strength and the Final Prota:tive Fire of all units 
which are Ihe object of a speci fic at tack. Subtract 
the total strength of the defending units from the 
IOtal strength of the allacking units. The result is 
the Combat Differential expressed in Points. It 
may be either a positive or a negali" e number. The 
Combat Differential may be adjusted fo r terrain, 
supply, gas, and morale by shifting the appropri· 
ate number of columns to the left or right on the 
Combat Results Table. All shifts arc cumulative 
and are applied by SUbtracting the total number of 
shifts in each direction from each other so as to ex-
C\:ute a single net shift in one di re(tion or the other. 
[xample: If thirteen Strength Points were auack-
ing a unit with fO llr Strength Points in a park he}!, 
Ihe combat differential would be + 9. Bcrause the 
defender is in a park hex, before re~olving the at-
lack , the allacker shifts one column to the left 
(from the + 9- 11 column to the -+ 6-8 column). 
Having determined Ihe proper column on the 
Combat Results Table. the auachr rolls the die. 
The result indicates a line "'hich is cross·indexed 
with the proper Combal Di fferential column. The 
interseet ion of line and colum n yields a combat 
rcsult. This should be immediately applied to the 
invol\'ed units before going on to resoh'e any olher 
combat. Separate combats may be resol,ed in any 
order that Ihe aHacker desires. 
(7. 1) WHICH UNITS ATTACK 
]7. 11] All Phasing units whieh are in an Enemy 
Zone of Control must attack at least one adjacent 
Enemy unit. All non·Phasing units "hich h3\'e a 
Phasing IInit in their Zone of Control mUSt be at-
tacked. The Phasing Player may reso!\'e his atta~ks 
in any manner desired "ithin the provisions of this 
rule. Phasing units which are nOt required lOattack 
may still voluntarily participate in combat. 
]7.12) A defending unit may be a!lacked by as 
many as si~ adjacent units, "ith possible addi· 
tional artillery Barrage Strength (~ee 8.0) and 
Ground Support (see 11.0) 
[1. 13] No unit may attack or be attacked more 
than once per Combat Phase. 
[1.14) Non·artillery units may only attack if in a 
hex adja(ent 10 the defending unites). 
17.21 MULTIPLE UNIT AND 
MUl TI·HEX COM RAT 
[1.21) If a Phasing Player's unit is in the Zone of 
Control of more than one Enemy unit. it must at-
tack all those adjacent Enemy unitS which are not 
engaged by some OIher auacking unit. 
[7.22] Uni ts in two or more different hexes may 
combine their Combat Strengths and attack a 
single hex. if all the attacking units arc adjacent to 
(or are within range of) the Enemy occupied hex. 
[7.23) Attacks may involve any number of auack-
ing or defending units. For the attacks 10 be resolv. 
ed as a single combat, h owe~er, all the allacking 
units except barraging artillery must be adjacent to 
all the defending units. 
(7.3J COM8AT STRENGTH UNITY 
A given unit's Combat Strengths are always 
unitary. That is, a unit's strength may not be divid-
ed among different combats. or lent 10 other units. 
(7.4J EFFECTS 01-- TERRAIN 
]7.41 ) Defending units, only, benefit from the ter· 
rain in the hex they occupy and/or that hex's peri· 
meter he~sides. Terrain in hexes occupied by al· 
tacking units has no effect on combat. 
[1.42) The effect of terrain (on combat) has been 
integrated into the Combat Results Table. After 
establishing the Combat Differential column, the 
Player will shift a number of columns to the left as 
~peci fied on the Terrain Effects Chan for the ter· 
rain which the defending unit occupies. 
]7.43) The effects of terrain are cumulali\·e. A 
defending unit benefits from the terrain in the hex 
it rn;cupies as well as the terrain in all hcxsides 
through which it is SHacked by adjacent units. 
Howe\'er, hexside benefits for a type of he~side 
apply only if all allacking unilS are attacking 
through that type of he.uide. 
[1.44J When two or more defending units are 
being attacked in a single combat and are on two 

different types of terrain. ea~h ha~ing a different 
effect on the combat differential, then the entire 
anack is modified by the one terrain type most 
favorable to the defender. 
[7.5] DIVERSIONARY ATTACKS 
[1.511 Anacks at differentials less than -7 are 
resol\'l~d on the - 7column on the Combat Resuhs 
Table. Auacks at differentials greater than + 12 
are resolved on the + 12 column. 
[1.521 The Phasing Player may never voluntarily 
reduce the differential of any gi\'en attack. That is. 
he may never voluntarily shift to the left of his 
combat di rr erential column. 
[7.53] A Player may choose to execute an auack 
at an unfavorable Combat Differential in order to 
achieve a beller Combat Differemial in another at-
lack. There arc no restrictions on a Player's ability 
to mount such "diversionary auacks." 
[7.6] COMBAT RESOLUTION 
Combat is resolved by indexing the results of a die 
roll with a column representing the adjusted Com-
bat Differential on the Combat Results Table. 
Results arc interpreted as follows: 
1)1.2, 3 or 4 _ Defender retreats the indicated 
number of hnes (I . 2. 3. 4). Each Player retreates 
his own units. He must retreat his units in accor-
dance with the Retreat Rules (sa 7.7). Units may 
retreat only through traverseable hexes. A tra-
verseabk hex is one the unit could enter during its 
Movement Phase. Units may rlOI retreat across 
water hexsides. 
A I. 2 or 3 _ Attacker retreats the indicated 
number of hexes (I. 2 or 3) as in a " DI, 2. 3"' 
result. 
Dr .. Doth the auacker and defender mUSt retreat 
one hex. The defender retreats firsl. (Note: this 
means that if the defender is surrounded by units 
or Zones of Control. it may beeliminated). The at-
tacking uniu then ret reat. 
Ae _ All attacking units eliminated. Defender may 
advance into the hex. 
De _ All defending units eliminated. Allacker may 
advanl~ into the hex. 
EI _ Exchange. All of the defending units are 
eliminated first. then an equal or greater number 
of the allacking Strength Points are lost. Note that 
all exctmngC"S take place using the printed strengths 
(Allack Strength for allaeking units: Defense 
Strength for defending units) of the units in~ol~ed. 
Non-adjacent allacking artillery units are ne~er af-
fected by Exchange results. 
Ax _ AI! defending units are retreated one hex. 
Then a number of attacking Strength Points equal 
to or greater than the Defense Strength of the 
defending unit(s) are losl. Note that this loss is 
calculated in the same manner as a normal Ex-
change result, except that the defending unit is 
retreated rather than eliminated. 
(1.61 1 Cumbat Results T. bl~ 
(see map) 
[7.7] HOW TO RETREAT 
When the combat result requires units to retreat . 
the owning Player must immediately move those 
units individually the indicated number of hexes 
away from their combat position. This movement 
is nO! normal movement and is subject to the fol-
lowing restrictions. If the unit is unable to retreat 
within these restrictions. it is eliminated instead. 
p .71] A retreating unit may not enter an Enemy 
controlled hex. Friendly units do not negate 
Enemy Zones of Control for purposes of retreat. 
11,121 A unit may not retreat across a ..... ater hex-
side (Including a water hexside crossed by a bridge 
or ferry). 
P. 731 Where possible. a retreating unit must 
retreat into or through vacant hexes. If no olher 
route is available, the retreating unit may enter 
Friendly occupied hexes. displacing every Friendly 
unit whose hex it moves into or through (sec 7.8). 
(7.741 A retreating unit must terminate its retreat 
the combat result·indicated number of hexes away 
from its former combat position. If it cannot do 
so. and can retreat only a portion of the number of 
required hexes. it is eliminated in the last hex to 
which il is able to retreat. The retreat path (see 
7.91) terminates in the hex in which a unit is 
eliminated. (t:xcepliuns: 7.7S and 7.76). 
11.751 A unit retreating through an urban hex has 
the option to end its retreat there, even ifit has not 
retrealed the full number of hexes mandated by 
tile combat result. It must. however. have 
retreated at least one hex in order to use this op-
tion. There is no adverse effect upon a unit for ex-
ercising this option. 
p .76] A Player who does not wish 10 execute a 
combat-mandated retreat may declare " They 
Shall Not Pass." The die is then rolled. If the 
resulting number is less than or equal to the 
number of hexes the unit must retreat. it is 
destroyed. If the number is greater than the 
number of hexes the unit would have had to 
retreat. the unit remains in place. It is not re-
quired to retreat and suffers no adverse effects due 
10 the refusal to ret real. Only units which arc cur-
remly in supply may employ this option. When 
more than one unit is forced to rctreat, each unit 
retreats (or uses the " They Shall Not Pass" op-
tion) individually in sequence. Eumplt: If twO at-
tacking units are required to rctreat . one could ex-
ecute the "They Sllal1 NO! Pass" option and the 
other could retreat normally. The first option 
would be executed before the Player was required 
to state .... hat action the second unit was taking. 
[7.81 DISPLACEMENT 
11.81J [f Friendly units occupy hexes in the only 
possible retreat rome a~ailable to a retreating unit, 
those Friendly units arc displaced (moved out of 
their hexes) by the retreating unit. Displaced units 
arc moved one hex (by the owning Player) as if 
they 
.... ere themselves 
retreating. Then the 
retreating unit enters the vacated hex and. if 
necessary. continues its retreat. The retreating unit 
rna)' displace as many units as necessary to com-
plete ils retreat. 
17.82] If displacement would ~a use the elimina-
tion of any of the displaced units. the relrealing 
unit is eliminated inslead. Displaced units arc sub-
ject to deslruction in the same manner as retreat-
ing units (i.e., they would be destroyed if they were 
forced 10 displace into an Enemy ZOC. etc). Di~­
placed units can themse l ~es displace other Friend-
ly units in a sort of chain reaction of displacement, 
if that is the only permitted path of displacemem 
open to them. A unit may be displaced more than 
once per Combat Phase. if that is the only al1erna-
tive. Displaced artillery units which have not yet 
engaged in combat, may not (ire during that Com-
bat Phase. Units may not displace Friendly units if 
other paths of reneat arc availabk. 
17.831 A unit against which any allack has been 
announced may not be displaced during that Phase 
until after Ihe attack in whiCh it is involved has 
been resol~ed. Similarly, a Phasing unit which is 
panicipating in any allack ma), not be displaced 
until after the attack in which that unit is involved 
has been resolved. 
[7.9] ADVANCE AFTER COMBAT 
[7.91] Whenever a defending unit is forced to 
retreat as a result of combat, it willle3ve a path of 
vacant hexes behind it called the path of rctreat or 
retreat path. Any or all Friendly victorious non-
police units which participated in the combat and 
were adjacent to the retreated unit may advance 
along the Enemy path of retreat. 
(7.921 The advancing ~ictorious units rna)' cease 
advancing in any hell along the path of relreat. 
17.93] Ad~ancing victorious uniu may Ignore 
Enemy Zones of Control. 
17.94] Only victorious non-police units which 
were adjacent to the retreating unit during the 
combat and participated in that combat may ad-
vance. Non-adjacent artillery units may nO! ad-
vance after combat. Units which usc the "They 
Shall Not Pass" option may no! ad~ance. 
17.9S] An advancing unit may not stray from the 
path of retreat. Exefplion: sa 7.98. 
(1.961 The option to advance must be exercised 
immediately before any other combat resolution. 
Units are never forced 10 advance after ~ombal. 
Ad\'ancing units may neither allack nor be al1ack-
cd in lhe remainder of that Phase, e~en if their ad-
vance places them next to Enemy units whose bat-
tles ha"e not yet been resolved. or wllo were not in_ 
volved in combat. Advances are c.,ecuted after all 
retreats (or "They Shall Not Pass" options) stem-
ming from the combat have been executed, but 
before any collateral damage checks are made. 
[7.971 Example 
(sa map sheet) 
[7.98] Attacking units may advance Iwo hexes 
whenever a defending Enemy unit is eliminated as 
a result of an unsuccessful auempl 10 apply the 
" They Shall Not Pass" option. The first hex of the 
advance must be the hex vacated by the eliminated 
unit. The second hex of the advance may be any 
adjacent traverseable hex. 
{7.99J Attacking units may always advance into 
the hex vacated by a unit eliminated in combat. 
They must cease their ad~ance in the hex. and may 
not advance into a second hex as in 7.98. 
[8.0J ARTILLERY 
Artillery units may participate in combat from ad-
jacent and non-adjacent hexes. The artillery unit's 
Barrage Strength may be used to anack Enemy 
unils. The artillery unit's Final Protective Fire 
Strength may be used to supplement the Defense 
Strengths of other Friendly defending units. In 
cither case. artillery units need not be adjacent 10. 
but must be within range of the defending unit. An 
artillery unit may use both its Darrage Strength 
and Final Protective Fire Strength in a single 
Game-Turn. When SHacked, an artillery unit 
defends its.clf with il5 own Defense Strength. 
[8.1] HARRAGE A'rTACKS 
A barrage allack is an attack made by an artillery 
unit against an Enemy unit in a hex that is not ad-
jacenl to the hex occupied by the artillery unit. 
Such an al1a~k may only be made by an artillery 
unit which is nOl adjacent to any Enemy unit. 
[8. 11] Artillery units may (but arc not forced to) 
attack non·adjacent Enemy units within range. 
[8. 121 Range from the barraging artillery unit to 
the defending unit is counted by including the 
target hex (defending unit's hex), but nOl the bar-
raging unit·s hex. 
[8.13] Artillery units may only allack a single 
Enemy oc~upied hex when barraging, except when 
ma king a combined allack ..... ith other units auack-
ing from adjacent hexes (see 8.2). 
R5 

R6 
(8. 14) Barraging artll1\'l')' sufFer 
no combat 
results; they arc nevcr dc-stroyed or retreated 35 a 
result of their own allads. Of course, other units 
cooperating with the barraging artillery units from 
an adjacent positiOIl would be affected by combat 
results. 
(8. 15) Attack.s made solely by Artillery arc ind-
fective unless a result of D2, 03. 04, or De is roil-
ed. Any other resul1 is read as "No Effect." 
(8. 161 Artillery units may barrage allack unoc-
cupied haC!5 in the same manner as Enemy oc-
cupied hexes. Artillery units may nOl allack hexes 
occupied by Friendly units. Nolf: Ihis tactic can 
be useful in crealing fireslorms or ruins or firing 
gas \0 temporarily interdict hexes. When an unoc-
cupied hex is barrage auackcd, lhe normal combat 
procedure;s bypassed. Instead, collateral damage 
is chcrked for and any ancillary effects (ruin, firt". 
gas) arc applied to tht" hex. 
(8.2) COMBINED A'rrACKS 
[8.21 ] Artillery units may allack alone, in concert 
with other barragi ng artillery and/or ground sup-
port. or in concert with any Friendly units making 
adjacent allacks, adding their bombarding Com-
bat Strength to the attaCk. These attacks are called 
combined attacks. 
(11.22] When Friendly units are allacking adjacent 
Enemy units in more than one hex in a single com-
bat, the barraging artillery units need to be within 
range of only one of the defending un its to add 
their Barrage Strength to the Duack. 
[8.31 ADJACENT AlTACKS 
[8.11[ When in the Zone of Control of an Enemy 
unites), artillery units must participate in a "nor-
mal" allack (i.e .. nO! a barrage auaek) against 
that Enemy unites) (see 7.0). In making this allack, 
the artillery unit uses its Barrage Strength. 
[8.32) In a Combat Phase in which an artillery 
unit must allaek from an adjacent he~. it may at-
tack as many unitsas it is adjacent 10 (as per 7.21). 
An artillery unit conducting a "normal" allack 
against adjact"nt units may not aBack non_ 
adjacent units (barrage allack) in the same Com· 
bat Phase. 
111.11] Artillery units allacking from an adjacent 
hex suffer any results oflheir attacks (as per 7.6). 
(8.4J FINAL I'ROTECTIVE FlRt: (FPt) 
[8.4IJ A non-Phasing artillery unit which has nOt 
yet been subject 10 an allack in the current Combat 
Phase. has suffered no adverse combat results in 
its previous Combat Phase, and is not in the zoe 
of an Enemy unit may usc its Final Protective Fire 
Strength (FPF) to supplement the Defense 
Strength of Friendly units which arc under allack. 
A non-Phasing artillery unit which does not meet 
these criteria may not use its FPF during the cur-
rent Enemy Combat Phase. 
[11.42] The Friendly defending unit receiving Final 
Protective Fire must be in the range of the artillery 
unit providing the FPF. This range is computed to 
the hex occupied by the defending unit (the Friend-
ly unit). not to the hex occupied by the allacking 
unit (the Enemy unit). 
111.41] FPF Strength Points are added 10 the 
Defense Strength of the unit receiving Final Pro-
ttttive Fire. 
[11.44) When an artillery unit supplies FPF it is not 
affected by any combat result. 
[8.45) FPF may not be used to supplement the 
Defense Strength of Friendly units which arc 
under allack solely by Enemy artillery (either adja-
cent or non-adjacent). 
18.SJ DEFENSE 
When an arti llery unit is attacked in any fashion it 
uses its Defense Strength, nO! its FPF Strength or 
Barrage Strength. 
18.61 T ERRAIN EFFECTS 
(8.61 [ An artillery unit may use its Barrage or FPF 
Strength anywhere within its Range Allowance. 
regardless of intervening terrain or units (either 
Enemy or Friendly). 
[8.62) Defending units benefit from the tnrain in 
the hex they occupy when allacked by artillery 
(regardless of range). Defending units do not 
receive any hex~ide benefits if allacked solely by 
artillery. Defending units do receive hexside 
benefits if they arc subject to a combined attack in-
vol~ i ng adjacent non-artillery units, all of which 
are altacking across the terrain hcxside type in 
question. 
[8.1J UNIT INTEGRITY 
[1I.71[ Non·adjacent Warsaw Pact rocket artillery 
units may only engage in combined allacks against 
units which art" being auaeked by one or more ad-
jacent units from the same division as the rocket 
artillery units. Units from other divisions may also 
be participating in the allack, but at least oneadja-
cent attacking unit must be of the same division as 
the supporti ng rocket artillery. This rule does not 
affect the ability of Warsaw Pact rocket artillery 
unil$ to attack unlls to which they arc adjacent or 
to bombard non-adjacent units which are not 
under attack from adjacent hexes . 
[8.72[ NATO artillery units may only provide 
FPF to units of their own nationality. NATO artil-
lery units may only engagt" in combined allaeks 
against units which are being allacked by at least 
one adjacent unit of the same nat ionality as the 
barraging artillery unit. This rule does not affect 
the ability of NATO artillery units to attack units 
to which they are adjacent or to bombard non_ 
adjacent units which are 1I0t under attack fro m ad-
jacent hexes. 
[8.73] Artillery units may never supply FPF to 
police units (regardless of nationality). Artillery 
units may not partkipate in a combined allack 
unless at least one of the adjact"nt allacking units 
involved in the combat is a non-police unit. 
[8.74] Air Ground Support Points may be used to 
support any Friendly non-police units. They arc 
not subject to the restrictions ofg. 71 and g.72. 
18.8J POISON GAS (Oplional) 
[8.111) Warsaw Pact artillery units (only) may firt" 
poison gas at NATO units or unoccupied hexes. 
The Warsaw ['act Player simply declares that he is 
firing poison gas. The effects of the gas arc applied 
immediately, regardless of any combat effects 
which may (or may not) occur in the hex being 
fired upon. Gas may not be fired into he~es which 
already contain a gas marker. 
[11.112) A gas marker is immediately placed in the 
hex being fired upon. The marker remains in the 
hex until the end of the Gamc-Turn following that 
in which the gas "'as fired (i.e. a gas marker placed 
in Game-Turn 2 would be removed at the end of 
Game-Turn 3). 
[8.Il) The MP COSt \0 enter a hex containing a gas 
marker is doubled. In night Game-Turns. the COSt 
for entering the hex would be tripled (rather than 
Quadrupled) to simulate the combined effects of 
night and gas. 
[8.84[ During the Game·T urn in which the gas 
marker is placed in a hex, all allacks against units 
occupying that hex are resolved 2 colu mns higher 
on the Combat Reliults Table than would normally 
be mandated by the Combat Differential for the 
allaek. 
[8.85] During the Game-Turn following that in 
which a gas marker was placed in a hex, all atlaeks 
against units occupying that hex arc rnolved I col-
umn higher on the Comba1 Results Table than 
would normally be mandated by the Combat Dif-
feremial for the allack. 
III.g6] Supply may not be traced through a hex 
containing a gas marker. 
[8.87) The Warsaw Pact Player may fire gas at 
hexes occupied by Warsaw Pact units only as a 
form of FPF. In this case. a die i.~ rolled. On a roll 
of 1-4. the unit receiving FPF recei~es a 2-column 
shift in its favor on the Combat Results Table and 
the effects of 8.84 are ignored for that Player-Turn 
only. The I-column defender penalty for defend-
ing in a gassed hex is applied on succeeding Player-
Turns. If the resUlting die roll number is 5-6. the 
effects of g.1I4 arc applied normally. 
[8.88[ Artillery unhs which fire gas apply their 
Barrage alld FPF Strengths 10 any t"ombats in the 
hex again~t which they are firing gas juSt as if they 
were firing a normal barrage or FPF mission. The 
effects of the gas are applied in addition 10 the ef-
feclS of normal fire. 
(11.89] Only Warsaw Pact artillery ullits may fire 
gas. NATO artillery units do not have this capaci-
ty. No air ground support points of either side may 
be considered to be employing gas. 
NOI~: This is a (very) optional rule. There is some 
debate as 10 whether the Warsaw Pact would use 
poison gas against a populated area. Further. usc 
of the gas rule gives the Warsaw Pact a huge 
(almost insurmountable. ill fact) advantage. The 
rule is included simply as a mailer of speculative 
interest. 
[9.0] AIRPOWER 
Air power in the game is represtnted by the alloca· 
tion of Ground Support Points on a Turn by Turn 
basis. Only the Warsaw Pact Pla)'er receives Air 
Points except during NATO Emergency Rein-
forcement Turns. Warsaw Pact Air Point alloca-
tions are listed on the Turn Record TraCk. Players 
record the use of Ground Support Points by plac-
ing the Ground Support markers providl'd on the 
units being assisted or allacked by the Ground 
Support Points. Ground Support Points arc 
presumed to fly in from off the map. They do not 
operate from on-map airbases. 
PROCED URE: 
Ground SuppOrt Points may be used during an~ 
Combat Phase in the same manner as artillery, and 
can function as Barrage Strength and F1'F. They 
may nOlo however. barrage attack Enemy units ex-
cept as part of a combined attack. t;Jlllmple: A 
Player has 10 Ground Support Points allocated in 
a given Game-Turn. When he is the Phasing 
Player he may use thest Points as Barrage Strength 
Points. When he is the non-Phasing Player he may 
use these same Points as FPI'. The Player Places a 
number of markers equal to the number of Points 
being allocated directly on the hn where they will 
be employed. 
[9.IJ RESTRICnONS ANI) 
PROIIiHITIONS 
[\l. 1 I] One Ground Support Poi nt equals one Ar-
tillery Strength Point (both Barrage and FPF). 
[\l. Il) A Player may assign any number of his 
available Ground Support Points to a target unit. 
or he may split them up between targets. 

[9.1l] Ground Support Points hale unlimited 
range. They may anad;: an) Enemy unit on the 
map. The)' are nO! subject to the restrictions of 
g.7. 
[9.14] Ground Support ]'oill!' may not be ac· 
cumulatcd from Game·Turn to Game·Turn . If 
they are nO! llsed in thc Turn allocatoo, they arc 
los!. 
19.151 No Player e":r receives Ground Support 
Points on night Game-Turns. Air superiorit)' is 
determmoo normally during night Game-Turns, 
howeler. 
[9.2] AIR SUPERIORITY 
19.21[ During Tums in which the NATO Player 
has air superiority, the Warsaw Pact Player may 
not recehe any AIr Ground Support Poinu. He 
may nO! use airlanding, aIr ~upp l)'. or paradrop 
options Ihat turn. Only NATO airlandmg and aIr 
supply l.s possible. ~pite the presence of NATO 
parachUle units in the game, no NATO paradrop 
operations aree\"er posSible. e~en when NATO has 
air superiority. 
19.22) During all Game-Turns except Ihose during 
which the NATO Player has air superiority. the 
War~w Paci Player is considered to have air 
superion\ Y. 
The NATO Player achiel·es air 
superiority as a rC'Suh of a dice roll of II or 12 on 
lhe Remforcemelll Table (printed on the map). 
NATO air superiority lasl$ only for one Game-
Turn (but may be achie,·ed again Oil new dice rolls 
of II or 12 on the Reinforcement Table). During 
Turns in which the NATO Player has air superiori· 
ty. only NATO airlanding and air supply opera-
tiolls arc permined. During Turns ill which lhe 
Warsaw Pact Player has air superiority. only War-
saw Pact airlanding. air supply. alld paradrop 
operations are permilled. 
[1O.0J COLLATERAL 
DAMAGE 
Whenever 
the 
concentration 
or 
e1lplosives 
employed against a given he~ reaches a critically 
high level. there is a chance lhat collateral damage 
will resuh in the hell . Collateral damage represents 
the rubbling of buildings, blOl;king of roads, and 
obliteralion of landmark! used for sighting and 
fire ,orrec!ion. Collateral damage has Ihe effect of 
maklllg a hu more difficult 10 move through and 
easier to defend. 
Whenever the tOlal number of Anillery and 
Oroulld Suppon Barrage and FPF Slrength Poims 
of both sides firing into a he~ equals or uceedJ the 
number In the Ieft-mO$! column for thaI lerrain 
type on the Collateral Damage Table. the Phasing 
Player must roll a die. The resulting die roll 
number is indued with the column representing 
the number of Artillery and Ground Support 
Points firing into the hex (found by reading along 
the row of numbcTl for thaI 
he~ Iype until a 
number is found which equals Ihe strength of the 
units of both sides firing illl0 the hex). The imer-
5«lion of tile die roll hne with the eolumn 
representing Fire Strength ~ields a re!iul1. That 
result will be either "-" (no effect) or "d" (Col-
lateral damage). If collateral damage results, a 
Ruin marker is placed in the hex. The hex then 
functions as a "ruin" hu and the MP costs and 
combat shifts for rulllS arc added to the normal 
MP eO$ts and combat shifts for the he~. 
(10.1] now COLLATERAl- DAMAGE 
IS ":Ht:(.T lm 
110.11] All ,ollatcral damage chech are made in-
dividually u an imegral part of the combll pro-
cedure for a particular combat. Checks arc made 
and results arc applied after retrealS and advances 
are ellecuted. bUI before going on to resolle any 
other combats. 
110. 12] Wilen more than one hell is being at lacked 
III the same combal. a smgle eollaleral damage 
check is made for bOlh he~C"'l. The die is rolled once 
and modified according to the lerrain in each in· 
dividual hex attacked. II is thus possible for Olle 
hn allacked to surrer collateral damage while 
another hell allacked in the same combat is unaf-
fected due 10 a difference in modifiers affecting 
the die roll. 
[10.2] WHICH HEXES CAN INCUR 
COLLATERAL IlAMAGE 
Only urban, industrial, suburban. fore~t. rough. 
and park he~es arc checked for collateral damage. 
No (It her hexes ~u ffer col1alC'ral damage ullder any 
circums13nces. 
]10.3] TERRAIN U 'n :CTS ON 
COLLAn~ RAL DAMAGE 
The effects of terrain arc ineorporaled into the 
Collateral Damage Table. Only Ihe row of 
numbcrs corresponding to the t)·pe of terrain m 
the hell being fired into is used when allempting 10 
find the column correspollding to the Fire S!rclIglh 
direcled against Ihe hell. 
]10.4] LIMITATIONS ON 
COLLATERAL DAMAGE 
A hex may only suffer collateral damage once dur-
ingthe game. A hex containing a "ruin" never ac· 
quires a s«ond Ruin marker. No collateral 
damage check is ever made for a hex which con-
tains a Ruin marker. 
[10.5] O ..... ECTS 0 .. · RUIN ON 
EXISTING TERRAIN 
110.5 11 Roads cease to function in Ruin he~C"'l. 
Ruin helles may nOl be entered at the road move· 
ment rate. 
1I0.52J Autobahns cominue to function in Ruin 
helles. Ruin hexes may be entered at the Autobahn 
movement rate (sec S.23). 
(10.5J] The functioning of bridges. ferries. alld 
border hCllsides is unaffected b~ the presence of 
ruins. 
{l0.54] U-Bahns continue 10 function in ruin 
hexes. Ruin helles may be entered al the U·Oahn 
mo~emem rate. (See 5.24.) 
110.55] The o~era ll terrain Iype of the hcx is flOI 
allered by collaleral damage. Places represented 
by special symbols contained within lhe hex (supp-
ly, barracks. etc.) continue to function. t:Xetp· 
lion: 
10.73. Movement alld combat effects 
assessed as a result of the presence of a Ruin 
marker are in addition to those effects assessed for 
the hell'S normlililerrain fealures. 
[10.6] COLLATt:RAL DAMAG .. : TARLE 
(sec mapshcct) 
[10.7) FIRE.STORM 
(10.711 Arti11cry or Air Points auading or firing 
at a POL (Petrol·Oil·Lubricants) hell ha~e their 
Barrage Strengths tripled for purposes of deter-
mining collateral damage. If the hell suffers col-
lateral damage. a Fire Marker is placed in the hex. 
The Fire Marker remains in the hex untllthe end of 
the Turn fo11owinglh81 in which it was placed. at 
which lime the marker is replaced by a ruin. Any 
unit occupying the hex when the Fire Marker is 
placed in it is immediately eliminaled. A Unil 
""hieh allempts 10 retreat as a result of combat out 
of a ha containing a POL s~ mbol is destroyed if 
Ihe hell suffers collateral damage as a result of thaI 
combat. 
[10.72] Hexes containing Fire Markers may 1101 be 
entered by any unit for ally reason. Once the Fire 
Marker is remOI·ed, the hex may be entered nor-
mali)'. It is treated as a ruin. Supply may nl){ be 
traced through a ha containin. a Fire Marker. 
[10.7J] Once a he~ has suffered a fire effect. it 
may nClcr agam be subject to fire. The POL sym-
bol in the he~ is considered destroyed (unlike a 
normal ruin in which the basic terrain type is 
altered bUI Ihe symbols still e~ist). The other sym-
bols in the hell (supply. barracks, objeclive) still 
count for purposes of assessing cily comrol and 
'Surrender Pom/s, but hal'e no effect on the game 
for any other purpose. 
[10.741 AI the beginmng (If each Player-Turn. the 
Phasing Player rolls one die for each POL hC')! 
which is adjacent 10 a hex contlining a Fire 
Marker alld which is not separated from that hu 
by a water he~side. On a die roll or I through 3. the 
fire spreads 10 the hex for which the die is tolled. A 
Fire Marker is placed in the hell and it is treated in 
all ways as if it had just suffered a collateral 
damage result. 
[II.OJ UNTRIED UNIT 
STRENGTH 
All units ellcepl artillery units arc unlried . This 
means that when untried units are deployed on the 
map. they arc placed on the sideoflhe coumer lhat 
shows only a capital "U" (inslead of combat 
strengths) and the unit's Movcment Allowance. 
Neither Player will know thccxact value of an un-
tried unit until the unit is aboul to engage in com-
bat. Artillery units have a lag Oil the back oflheir 
counter indicating their !y~ and the superior (01'_ 
mation to which they are attached. They do not, 
howel'er. ha'·e an "Untried" state. 
Units rcmain in an untried state until involl·ed in 
combat. Once a unit has been comm illed to com-
bal -
arler the allocation of all Barrage, Final 
Protective Fire, and Ground Support Points -
the 
true strenglh of the unit is revealed by nipping the 
counter ol·er 10 its combat side. Once unilS ha'e 
bc-cn eomml1led to combat. they may flOt be: 
withdrawn. elen if -
because of the re'·ealed 
strengths -
the combat has now b«ome un· 
favorable to the Phasiflg Player. Reillforcemeni s 
always crucr the map in their untried state. 
(Nott: A unit with a strength of "0" equals iii 
strength of "I" for exchange purposes.) 
[12.0J BRIDGE DEMOLITION 
Allhe inSlanl Ihe first Warsaw Pact unit movt'S in-
10 a hn or Wt'S1 Berlin of""hich one (or more) hell' 
sides is a bridge, the NATO Player, at his option. 
may altempt to demolish the adjacent bridge(s). A 
die is rolled once ptr hellS ide 10 S«' if the bridges in 
thaI hexside arc demolished. If the NATO Player 
docs not ellercise this opllon whcn a Warsaw Pact 
unit first moves adjacent to Ihe bridge he may not 
allempt 10 demolish that bridge for the rest of the 
game. Demolition is emirdy al Ihe option of the 
NATO Player: he is never forced to Dltempt 
demolition. 
R7 

RB 
A die I~ rolled for demolition immfiil31dy. no 
mallcr "'lIai Ihe Phase .... hClH:lc:r Ihe: firs! Warsaw 
Pact unit mOles or retreats into any ht .~ of which 
Ihe: bridge forms a side:. A die: roll of I, 2. or ] by 
lilt' NATO Player demolishes 1he- bridge:. If 
demolilion of a bridge sut'Ct<'ds. note is im· 
mediately made of Iht faci that tile bridge no 
longer CXi5U. The hcxsidc is treated as if i1 werc a 
normal walCT hexsidc. This cliangt in Ihe stalus of 
Ihe htxsidc is tff«livc im mediately. A Destroyed 
Bridge' marker is used 10 indicate IhoSt' bridgts 
which no longer exist. 
If demoliTion of a bridgl' d~s nOI suctc'C'd, the 
bridge is considered 10 be intact for the remainder 
of the pme:. No a1!cmpl may be made 10 deslroy 
11Il' bridge a1 any olher pc:!inl in the game. 
[13.0] REINFORCEMENTS 
Both Players may receive reinforcementS depend-
ing upon the scenario. These appear during the 
owning Player's Movemem Phase on the Game-
Turn indicated on the Reinforcement Schedule for 
Ihat scenario. The Reinforcement Schedule states 
Ihe number and types of units received (including 
suenglhs). Warsaw Paci units may arrive via air_ 
landing or par.drop. NATO units may only arrive 
via airlanding. 
During his Movement Phasc, the owning Player 
places reinforcement units on Jhe map within the 
limitations of 13.2 and/or 18.0. Airlanded units 
may be placed at any time during the Movement 
Phase of arrival. Paradropped units may be placed 
only at the end of the Movement Phase (Ihey can-
not move during the Turn in which they are 
dropped). 
(13.1] RESTRICTIONS ON 
REINI-'O RCEM ENTS 
[13. 11 [ The Warsaw Paci Player may deliberately 
withhold reinforcements from Game-Turn to 
Game-Turn. bringinglhem into play (if at all) on 
some later Turn. NATO emergency reinforcemenl$ 
may nOI be withheld. They must appear during 
theiT scheduled arrival turn or not at all. The 
NATO Player may not refuse to accept emergency 
reinforcements. He mUSI altempt to bring them in_ 
to play if possible. 
11l. IlI Untillhey enter the map. reinforcements 
ha'e no effect on play. They may in no fashion at-
tack Enemy units or hinder Iheir mo~·ement. 
(13.2] AIRlAN DlNG 
REINI-'O RCEMf:NTS 
[0 .211 All NATO reinforcements must be air-
landed. I r Ihey cannOt be: airlanded for any reason. 
they may nOt enter the game. Soviet paratroop 
unilS may voluntarily enler the game via airlandillg 
instead of paradrop (see 18.0). 
[0 .221 To alrland a unil, it is necCS$lry locontrol 
an airfield. Up 10 nine units may be airlanded on a 
Friendly F1ushQjcn. Up 10 thrcc units may be 
landed on a Friendly FluWIQI:t, Flushiifen have 
control towers attached. There arc Ihrcc of these: 
Templchofand Tegel in West Berlin and Schone· 
feld in East Germany. The four smaller (I to 4 
hues) FlusplQ/l type airfields include: Gatow in 
West Berlin and Johannesthal (East Berlin). Staa· 
ken and Schonwalde in East Germany. Airlanded 
units are placed on any hex of the airfield on which 
they land. They may move up to hal( their Move-
ment Allowance (round down) during the Turn in 
which they arc airlanded. Notc: Some units rna)' 
be: placed on thc airficld and then mo,ed after 
which other Ul1lts may be airlanded on Ihe same 
hu(es). 
113.13] An airfield is Friendly for airlanding pur-
ifit was Friendly at the start of the game(sce 
19.44) andlor if Friendly units were the last to 
move through all hexes of the airfield 3nd any ad-
jacelll control tower hell. 
[13.241 Air!anding may only take place during a 
Turn in which the airlanding Player has air superi-
ority. The Warsaw Pact Player has air superiority 
(sec 9.2) during all Game-Turns CJlcept those in 
which the NATO Player is receiving emergency 
reinforcements. During those Turns. the NATO 
Player has air superiority. Units may be airl3nded 
during night Game-Turns. 
113.25] Reinforcemenu which arrive in an Enemy 
Zone of Control may nOt mo'e during thc Game-
Turn of arrival. 
[14.0] SUPPLY 
GENERA L RULE: 
All units arc either in supply or out of supply. If in 
supply they funclion normally. If out of supply 
they suHer a diminuation in their ability 10 con· 
duct combat and move. 
In order for a unit to be in supply, il must be: pos.si-
ble to tracc a line of supply from that unit to a sup-
ply source. Supply is determined althe beginning 
of the Mo"ement Phase and at the moment of 
each combat during each Player-Turn. 
(1 4.11 SUPPLY SOURCES 
114. 11] A West Berlin police unit is in supply if a 
line of supply can be: traced to any supply hex in 
Wr-st Berlin. 
[14. 12] All other NATO units arc in supply if a 
line of supply can be traced to a barracks hex in 
Wl:$t Ikrlin. 
[14.13] A Soviet or East German unit is in supply 
if a supply line can be: traced to a Friendly road or 
Autobahn hCJI on any mapcdge. 
[14.14] During Turns in which a Player has air 
superiority (sec 9.21 his non-police units may traCe 
supply to any airfield which could be used by him 
for airlanding purposes. 
(14.2] TRACING ti NES or SUPPLY 
[14.21] A line of supply may be traced only 
through Friendly tra,crscable hexes which arc not 
in an Enemy ZOC. Supply may be traced across 
water hexsides (but nOt through lake helles). A line 
of supply may be: of any lenllth. The presence of a 
Friendly unit in a hell negates Enemy ZOC's for 
purposes of ITadnll supply (only). A hex is Friend-
ly to a Player's units if it was "held" by the Player 
at Ihe beginning of the game or if Friendly units 
wefe the last to move thrOUllh the hex (see 19.44). 
[14.22J Supply may be: traced through a U- Sahn 
hex which is in an Enemy zoe by using thc 
U-Sahn (as if supply were a unit mo' ing through 
the hCJI) if Friendl)' unils ...-cre the last to paSli 
through thaI U-Bahn hex (sec 15.0). 
114.23] NATO supply may nOt be traced through 
more than one border hexside. 
[14.24] Supply may not be traced through helles 
containing Firc or Gas markers. The presence of 
fire or gas in a hex supercedes all Olher terrain in 
thc hex for the purposes of tracing supply. Thus, 
the U- Bahn could not. for nample, be used 10 
trace supply through a hex containing a Gas 
Marker. 
(14.3] SUPPLY EHECTS 
[14.3IJ A unit which is out of supply at thc Mlin· 
ninll of the Movemcnt Phase has its Movement 
Allowance halved (round down) for the duration 
of Ihe Phase. II does not regam full mo,emcnt 
capacity that Phasc e.,.en if it subsequcntly mo'" 
into supply. 
[14.321 A unit which is unsupplied at the moment 
of combat suffers 3 2-column shift in favor of the 
opposillg 
Pla~er. Unsupplied units IIIDy n01 
employ the "They Shall Not Pass" option. 
6-2-18 
·8~ 
1-IO i!i 
[t4.33J Arttllery units v.hich arc out of supply 
may nOI provide FPF and may not barrage allack 
non-adjaccnt units. Warsaw Pact artillery units 
which arc out of supply may no\ employ the 
"Gas" option. 
[15.0] THE U·HAHN 
The U-Bahn (Sub"'-'ay) which runs under both Eut 
and West Berlin is usable to circumvent Encmy 
ZOC's for purposes of movement and supply and 
to move through hexes at a slightly fastCT rate. 
Whenfvcr a unit enters a U-Bahn hex via a U·Bahn 
hexside, the Player may state thatthc unit is mov· 
ing via the U-Bahn. The unit then entcrs the hex at 
the U·Sahn rate and ignores all ZOC's and hells ide 
crossing cosu. Both sides may usc the U·Bahn 
freely. Atthe end of its Movement Phase. any unit 
which has bcen using U-Bahn movement is con-
sidcred to be: abo"c ground. 
[16.0] NIGHT GAME-TURNS 
Every third Turn is a nillht Game·Turn (tinted on 
the Turn Record Track). During night Game· 
Turns. the normal rules arc modified to account 
for the confusion of night fighting. lack of air sup· 
port. and increased abilil~ of units 10 infiltrate and 
exfiltrate along thc front line. 
(16.1] AtR )' OWER AT NIGHT 
[16. 111 Neither side may rexei\'e or usc Air 
Ground Support Points during night Game· 
Turns. Air superionty (sec 9.2) is dctermined nor-
maliy, hov.c,er. 
[16.121 Airlanding and air supply operatIons (but 
not paradrops) arc pt'rmillcd at night. Only the 
Player who has air superiorilY may conduct these 
types of operat ions. 
]16.2] NIG UT MOVEM ENT 
116.21 J The MP cost for cntcring all terrain t~pes 
and crossing all hexside types is doubled during 
night Gamt-Turns. 
/16.22] Unns which bt-gin their Player·Turn to an 
Enemy Zonc of Control during a night Game-
Turn may exit that Enemy ZOC by Disengagement 
at a COSt of 2 additional Mo,'ement Points. Thcy 
must SlOp upon cnterinll another Enemy ZOC. 
Units using the Disengagement option may nOt 
move directly from one Enemy-controlled hcx into 
another Enemy-controlled he~. They may nit an 
Enemy ZOC only into a hex which is not Enemy-
controlled. 

[17.0[ NATO EMERGENCY 
REINFORCEMENTS 
Beginning Wilh Game-Turn 2 and on any suc-
ceeding Game-Turrls, Ihc NATO Player may 
choose 10 roll for NATO emergency reinforce_ 
melllS. He may continue 10 toll for rcinforccmcllls 
during each Game-Turn thaI a ccase fire is not in 
effecl unlil he either receives land (n01 air) rein-
forcements or rolls a 2-j result on lhe Reinforce-
ment Table, after whid\ he may not roll for rein-
forcements for the remainder of lhe game. The 
NATO Player is never forced 10 roll for reinforce-
menu. Ho ..... ever. once he rolls the dice, he is obli-
gated 10 abide by Ihe resul!. Reinforccmems arc of 
twO Iypes: air and land. 
T",'o diet arc rolled secretly before the Warsaw 
Pact Movcmcm Phase. but afler the Warsaw Pact 
Player has had [he option to offer '; Honors of 
War" alld the resuh correspolldillg to their total is 
found on the Reinforcement Table. This result is 
applied immediately. If a "No reinforcements" 
resuit is receh'ed, the NATO Player is not 
obligated to inform the Warsaw Pact Player of 
this fact. HI' may "fake" a reinforcement dice roll 
on succeedillg Game·Turns. If any reinfofcmcnt is 
received (induding air rei llforcement), the NATO 
Player must immediately inform the Warsaw Pact 
Player of this fact. Regardless of the results of sue· 
ceeding die rolls, the NATO Player is considered 
to have air superiority during the entire Turn dur-
ing which he receives reinforcements (induding 
just Air Ground Suppon Points). 
[17. 1] REI Nl-OHCEMt:NT TABLE 
RESULTS 
No Reinforcements. The NATO Player is inform_ 
ed by NATO HQ. Belgium that no reinforcement 
will be fonhcoming. He receives no reinforce-
ments and may nOt roll for emergency rein-
forcements for the remainder of the game. He may 
continue to roll the dice each Turn, but may never 
receive any reinforcements, regardless of the 
result. 
No Ufrcl. The NATO Pla)'er receives no rein· 
forcement, but may roll for emergency reinforce-
ment during succeeding Game·Turns. 
Air Support. The NATO Player receives an 
emergenc)' reinforcement of 6 Air Ground Sup-
port Points which he may use during both Combat 
Phases of that Game-Turn only. NATO has air 
superiority for the entire Game-Turn. Air Points 
are not received during night Game·Turns, but 
NATO;s still considered to have air superiority. 
Air Support ~nd J~gerbrigllde . The NATO Player 
receives an emergenq reinforcement of 6 addi-
tional Ground Support Points alld has air 
superiority for the duration of the turn. In addi-
tion . NATO HQ dispatches the 10th Jagerbrigade 
to Berlin as an emergency land reinforcement. A 
die is rolled. On a roll of 1-2, the reinforcement;S 
recci\'ed on any eligible airfield via airlanding. On 
a 1, the reinforcement is forced to abort due to 
heavy Warsaw Pact air activity and the reinforce-
ments arc permanently los!. There is no other 
adverse effect. On a roll of 4-6, the entire Jager-
brigade (7 units) is considered destroyed in the air. 
The unil5 count as losses for Surrender Point 
determination. There is no other ad~ersc: effecl. 
[17,2] REINFORCEMENT 
PROHIHITIONS 
(17.2I r If all or some of the 7 units of the 10th 
Jagerbrigade cannot be airlanded due to a lack of 
airfield capacity, they are j)eonanently lost as if 
they had been forced to abor1 their mission. 
(17.221 There is no effect on the receipt of Air 
Points or the establishment of air slIperiority due 
to a failure (for any reason) to receive emergency 
land reillforcements. 
117.23] Once a 12 has been rolled on the Rein· 
forcement Table, the NATO Player may Jlever 
again roll for cmcrgenc~' reinforcements, regard-
less of the resllits of the second die roll or his own 
inability 10 airland the reinforcements. 
[17.3] REINrORCEMENT TABLE 
(see mapshcet) 
[18.0) PARATROOPS 
GENE RAL RULE: 
The Warsaw Pao Player receives paratroops at the 
beginlling of the game which may enter the game 
as reinforcements on anyone Game-Turn during 
which the Warsa ..... Pact Player has air superiority. 
Paratroops may enter the map via airlanding or 
paradrop. Any number of paratroops may be 
paradropped during anyone Game-Turn in which 
air superiority is achieved. Once any paratroop 
unit has paradropped, no further paradrops may 
be initiated on succeeding Turns. Paradrops may 
be conducted on only one turn per game. 
Atthe end of his Movement Phase and after com-
pleting all movement for that Turn. the Warsaw 
Pact Player may announce a paradrop. He places 
all of the units which are to paradrop in their drop 
hexes and then rolls two dice for each unit on the 
Survival Table (lS.S). The tOlal is then modified 
for terrain and Enemy ZOC's. On an adjusted roll 
of" I" or less the IInit is destroyed. On a roll of 
"2." "3," or "4" the unit scatters. On a roll of 
'T' or greater the unit lands successfully on 
target. If the unit scatters. the Scatter Diagram 
(18.1) is consulied and a die is rolled to determine 
the direction of scatter. The unit scatters into the 
adjacent hex indicated by the die Toll number. 
[18.1] SCATIER DlACRAM 
(see mapshect) 
[18.2] PARATROOP DESTRUCfION 
A paratroop unit ..... hich begins the Combat Phase 
of the Turn in whkh it was dropped stacked with 
any other unit, including another paratroop unit, 
is destroyed. Non·paradrop un it~ which begin a 
Combat Phase stacked with paratroop units are 
unaffected. A paratroop unit which begins the 
Combat Phasc of the Turn in which it was dropped 
in a lake hex or a hex with a Fire or Gas Marker is 
destroyed. Destroyed paratroop units arc perma_ 
nently removed from play. They may nOl drop 
again. When a paratroop unit is destroyed as a 
result of scatter or a failure to survive its drop, the 
unit may nOt be considered to have made any hex 
Friendly prior to destruction. 
118.3] DROP ELIGIBILITY 
A paratroop unit may only drop once per game. 
Only a paratroop unit may exercise this option. 
Paratroops may ne\cr enter the map except by 
paradrop or airlanding (sec 13.0). 
]18.4] FIRST TURN RESTRICTIONS 
1111.41] Paratroops may not move except as a 
result of combat during the turn in which they arc 
paradropped. 
(18.42] Paratroops may not be targeted to land on 
a hex containing lake terrain or a hex occupied by 
another unit or a Fire or Gas Marker. Only one 
unit may be targeted to paradrop into a particular 
hex during a Turn. 
118.43] Paratroops arc in supply during their en-
tire Turn of arri~al when paradropped. 
(18.5] SURVIVAL TABLE 
(see mapshcet) 
[ 111.6] SURVIVAL MODII:I£RS 
(\8.61 ] One is added to the survival dice roll of H 
unit dropping into an open or airfield hex. 
(18.62] One is subtraC1ed from the survival dice 
roll of a unit dropping imo an industrial or subur-
ban hex. 
(18.63] Two is sllblraCted from the survi~al dice 
roll of a unit dropping into a rough hex. 
[18.64] Three is sub1racted from the survival dice 
roll of a unit dropping into a forest or urban hex. 
118.65] A modified dic roll number greater than 
" 12"' is read a5 "12." A modified die roll number 
less than" I" is read as "I." 
118.66] A summary of all survival dice roll 
modifiers for lena in is included under the "Survi-
val" column of the Terrain Effects CharI. 
118.67] A paradropped unit which is ploued to 
land in the Zone of Comrol of an Enemy unit sub-
tracts 2 from its survival dice roll. 
[19.0) "HONORS OF WAR" 
The Warsaw Pact Player may attempt to induce a 
NATO surrender by offering the " Honors of 
War. ,. Depending upon the currem military sit ua· 
tion, the NATO Player may be forced by the 
NATO high command (for humanitarian reasons, 
if no others) to accep1. 
At the beginnillg of any Game·Turn (before 
emergency reinforcements are checked for), the 
Warsaw Pact Player may choose to offer Honors 
of War. If he does, a column on the Honors of 
War Table is found which is equal to or less than 
the IOtal number of Surrender Points recorded on 
the Surrender Poim Record Track on 1he map· 
sheet (use the column which most nearly approxi-
mates the total, but does not exceed it). Two dice 
are rolled and their total is indexed with the proper 
column on the Honors of War Table. The results 
arc in effect for the entire TUTU. 
[19.1] RES ULTS 
(19. 11] A "8" reSll1! means that for the duration 
of that Game-Turn , one side or the other reccl"es 
an addilional one column shift (plus or minus at 
the discretion of the Player using the shifl ) for pur· 
poses of resolving combat involving adjacent 
units. The die is rolled a second time to see which 
side gets the bonus shift. On a 1·3, the NATO 
Player gets the shift: 4-6 lhe Warsaw Pact Player 
benefits. Bonus shifts may be employed both when 
allacking and 
when 
defending. 
This shift 
represents the morale effects that negotiations 
have on the troops. 
(19.121 A "C" result means that there is a possi· 
bility of either a surrender or a cease fire. A die is 
rolled. On a roll of 1-3, a cease fire is in effect. No 
units may be rnovcd and no combat may be resolv-
ed. The entire Turn is skipped. TheTurn Marker is 
advanced one TuTtt and thc game cominues. On a 
roll of 4-6, the NATO Player surrenders, the game 
ends immediately, the city falls, and viclOry is 
evaluated. 
R9 

R10 
, ' 9.1l1 An "5" Tl;'Suh mtans that lhert' is a passi. 
bilil)' of a NATO surrender. A die is rolled and 
NATOsurrc:nders on a roll of 4·6. Any other roll is 
a "No Erf~l" and play proceeds normally. 
, 19. 141 A " - I." " - 2," "+1." "+2" means 
thai the second die roll is 
modifi~d by thai 
number. 
119.21 RESTRICTIONS 
[ 19.11\ The Honors of War may be offered at any 
lime after Turn I. Honors of War may bc offered 
once per Turn on any number of T urns duringlhe 
game. A result on the lable d~ nO! prohibit the 
Warsaw Pact Player from making II new allcmpl 
nexl Turn. HOlol('\'l'r, for each Tu rn in which 
Honors of War art offered lind the result is nO! a 
NATO surrender, the Warsaw '>act VP lotal is 
reduced by 20 points. 
119.31 I-IONORS Ot' WAR TARtE 
(~ map!lhC'Cl) 
r:=lRr=li-=l 
~~~~ 
1111.4) SURRENDER IlOINTS 
(19.4I J Surr~nd~r Points are awarded rhe War\aw 
I'acr l'luy~r during lhe game for desrroying Enemy 
units and/or holding rerrain. The Warsaw l'aCl 
Play~r records his Surrendcr POllin on th~ Surr~n­
der Point Record TracL The NATO I'la)'er 
recei\es "negati\e" Surrendn Points .. hich he 
adds 10 Ihe Warsa .. Pacl Player's total. Th~ Sur-
r~nder POinl Markers ar~ mOH'(1 along Ih~ track 10 
indical~ changes in Ih~ lev~1 of Points aecumu-
laled. If Ihe NATO Player has accumulaled more 
pointS than the Warsaw Pa,'1 Player, the marker~ 
are lurned over 10 show Ihal Ihe number on Ihe 
track bnegali\'e. 
119,"2] Th~ NATO Player recei,'es one Surrender 
Point for eaeh Warsa.. Pacl 
po[ic~ unil he 
dnlroys. 1"0 Surr~nd~r 1'011115 for ~ach Warsaw 
l'acl mechanized or anillery .. hich he dl:'$lroys, 
and lhree POIliIS for each Warsa" Pact p;lralroop 
ullil which he desl roys. 
[19"'3] Th~ Warsaw PaCI Player rec~ives one sur-
render point for each Wesl !krlin police unil 
which he destroys and two Surr~nder 1'0il1l$ for 
~ach NATO unir of any ()lher type "hich he 
deslroys. The NATO MI' unil is considered a 
mililary. nOI a polic~, unit. 
[19 ..... 1 The Warsaw PaCI Pla),n r~c~ives one Sur-
render Poinr for each objecli'e he~ or airfield hell 
in Wesl Berlin ,,'hich h~ holds and twO PoinlS for 
c3ch Ir.lrracks he.' or air conrrollo .. er hc~ in W~SI 
!krlin which he holds. Th~ NATO Playn may 
reduce the eurrent Surr~nder Point I~'~I b)' recap-
luring OOjecli\e, airfield, air conrrol lo .. er. and 
barraeks hues. The Surr~nder Point "alue of Ih~ 
rC('aplured hexes is sublracted from Ihe currenl 
Surrend~r Poinr le\eI. " Holding" a he:c. is defined 
as being Ihe last Playcr 10 mo\c Ihrough a h~:c. 
and/or having held lhe he:c. allhe beginning oflhc 
gam~. In all S(:enarios, hexcs in West Serlin 3re 
held by Ihe NATO Player allhe Slarl of lhe game, 
and all Olher hexes are held by the Warsaw Patr 
Player. Th~ h~xes which a Player holds arc t~rmed 
"Friendly" to that p[ayer, 
119"'51 Honor$,of War may only be: orr~red when 
th~re is a rOlal of at least + 6 Surrend~r Poims ac-
cumulaled. 
[19.5J SURREN!)ER l'OINTS 
RI-:CORD TRACK 
(S« mapsheel ) 
[20.0) VIC.TORY 
CONDITIONS 
GENERA L RULE: 
The game end~ al Ihe end of Game-Turn 16 or 
"henever Ihe Warsaw l'acI P lay~r al Ihc end of a 
Game-Turn has comrol of the dly of Wesl !krlin. 
Viclory is Ih~n delermrned according to 20.2. 
CA SES: 
[20.IJ CITY CONTROL 
[20.11] Th~ Wars.aw Pact Player is considered to 
havc comrol of Ihe cily if he was Ihe lasl lo entcr or 
pass through all he .~es of lhe Gatow, Tegel, and 
T~mplehof airfi~lds (including 
Ih~ Teg~1 and 
Templehof ~-onlrollOwcrs). all obj~clh'e he~es and 
all barracks hues. or if NATO 5urr~nd~rs (S« 
19.0). 
120.2J VICTORY t:VALUATIQN 
[20.21 ] Victory is determined by awardinll the 
Warsaw Pacl Player Viclory Poinls for conlrollinll 
Ihe d ly. The Warsaw Pacl Player receives a 
number of Victory Poinls equal 10 Ihe number of 
non·po l ic~ uniu he has on th~ map when the dly 
falls multiplied by the VP multiple for Ih~Turn in 
.. ,hich Ihe city falls (5tt lurn rC('ord ITack). No 
VP's arc a .. arded if Ihe eily does nOl fall. Any 
Soviet mcch or airbornc divisions may be: wilhh~ld 
from Ihe gamc. All unilS of .. ilhheld divisions are 
worrh, VP's when Ihc cilY falls. r~ga rdlcss of Ihe 
Turn in which Ihat occurs. Previously wilhheld 
unils may ne,'er Clllcr the game e)(cepl for Ihe 
Sovi~1 parachule dh'ision which may nller Ihe 
game al any limc IS a rcinforcemenl. Once Ihe 
p;lTachute division enlers Ihe game. it may no 
longer rC('eh'c Ihe VI' valuc for being withheld. 
[20.22] The NATO Player recciH'S 
~ VP's per 
Turn for each Turn during " hich on~ or more of 
his eligible arlillery unils "imerdicIs" Warsaw 
I'(ICI communicalions. An cligible unit is an anil-
Icry unil wilhin range of Ihe raillinc belween he:c.es 
0108 and 2302 "hich does nOI c.~C('ule any olher 
miuion durinl Ih~ NATO Combal PhaSt' and 
.. lIich is eligible 10 fire during Ihal PhaSt'. The 
NATO Pla)'~r announces Ihe ~xC('ution of Ih~ miS' 
slon and rC('ords Ihe VI' accumulalion al lhe end 
of lhe Phasc. NATO VP's ar~ recorded as negaliv~ 
numb<rs sublracted from the Warsaw PacI VI' 
lOla! althe end oflhc ganlc. 
120.23] The NATO Pla)'cr receives 8 VP's per lurn 
for each Turn during "hich any NATO unn (of 
any Iype) occupies a hc:c. of Ihe rail line bel .. ecn 
he)(CS 0108 and 2302. indusive. Thest- Poinu may 
be: awarded only once per Turn (r~gardless of how 
many rail line he:c.es are occupied) and are awarded 
in plact' of (nOl in addiTion to) VP's awarded ac· 
cording to 20.22. The unil(s) occupying Ihe rail 
line need nOI be: in supply. 
[20.24] The level of viclory is gh'en below depend· 
ing upon how many VP's th~ Warsaw Pact Play~r 
has accumulated al lhe cnd of the game. 
Warsaw PaCI l'.>e1;ishe Victory 
200+ 
Warsaw PaCI Subslantl\~ Viclory 
Warsaw Pact Marginal ViclOry 
NATO Marginal ViClory 
NATO Subslanllve Viclory 
NATO lkcish'e Viclory 
[21.0) SCENARIOS 
160- 199 
120- U9 
80-1 19 
40-79 
39 or less 
There arc lhrct> scenarios in Berlin: '&5. The in· 
Sl ruClions for each scenario 
i n clu d~ historical 
nOles, delailing brieny t h~ anticipated evenlS and 
circum~tances of tll~ sc~nario; C'3eh sid~'5 initial 
order of bailIe and St'1'UP inslruclions: aller.tions 
in Ille ground supporr S(:hedule sho .. n on lhc Turn 
RC('ord Track; sc~nario I~nglh (in Game·Turns): 
special rules ill cffC('t for Ihal scenario: and alt~ra­
lions in Ih~ standard victory conditions. 
Units wilh an unrned sid~ always beglll the S(:en· 
ario wilh Iheir unlried side showing. Units ar~ 
lisled by 5lr~ngth and t)'pe(a lett~r and numbe:r for 
most uniu; fi\c numbers for anillery). When mOf~ 
Ihan one unit of a lype is included in the order of 
ballic for a superior formalion (Le., Ihc 9 mechan-
ized baualions in each Soviel mechanized divi-
sion), Ihe Sl r~n 8lh and type will be fo llowed by lhe 
appropriale mu ltiple. T h~ Combat Str~n8lhs of 
unlried uniu are liven as "U. ,. The lellerabbrevia-
tions used for unit types ar~ as follows: M _ Mech. 
anized, A - Artillery, T ~ Tank, R_ RC'COn, 1' _ 
Po l lC~, 
MP _ Military 
Police. 
I- Infanlr)'. 
PC - Parachule, AT _ Ami·Tank Artillery, SF _ 
Special Forces. E _ Engineer, HQ - Headquarlers. 
t::Xamplt: The 61h Guards Mechaniled Division 
would include nine mechanized ballalions and one 
roc k~1 anillery unit porlrayed as fo llows: U·12Mx 
9, 4-O--20--1- IOA x 1. 
(21.1] OPf:RATION UNIT V 
HI510rin i Nolu: 
When th~ balloon goes up in Europe, the Warsaw 
Pacl planners will be faced wilh Ihe d~dsion to 
dlher mounl an assaulr against the NATO ~ncla"e 
in !krlin or 10 mask Ihe cily and conrain any at-
lempl by Ih~ garrison to sortie. If Ih~ir dc-cision is 
to assauir, il is Irkely Ihal Ih~ 201h Guards Army 
(reinforced) Will be lapped for Ihe job. To maxi-
mize KCurily, Ihe assauh elemenls would probably 
mo,e up 10 Ihdr slarr linc for th~ assaull somctime 
in Ihe early morning and mov~ direclly from these: 
starl posilions to thc anack withoul benefil of ar-
liller), prep;lralion. The scenario hegins in the 
seasonal mists of an August momin, .. ith 60,000 
Warsaw Pact Iroops massing wilhin a fe'" 
kilom~t~rs of !krllll. Operalion UnllYls about 10 
begin. 
[21.1 1] lnltl. 1 Stl-Up 
The NATO Player sels up all of his unil~ firSI. The 
Warsaw Paci Player scts up Ihe units he will usc in 
Ihe allack (wilhholding 3ny desired divisions). The 
Warsaw PacI Player mo\'es first. 
Tht NATO Pla) t r·' Units 
It'tst RtrHn Pullct Unitl: 
U-8P x 36. Sct up one per he:c. on any supply 
hues or air conlrol lower hexes in Wrsl Ikrlin. 
Uniftd Stutt'l Unltl: 
U-12M x 3. U- 12E x I, U-S[ x 2, U-12SFx I, 
U· 12MP x I . U- I2HQ x I . [-1· 1 ~· 1 - 1 2 A x 1. Sct 
up one per hex in any h~:c. wilhin t" o hexes tone 
imervening he~ ) of a barracks he:c. in U.S. lOne. 
British Uni,s: 
U· 12M x 3. U-9PCx I. U-UR x I . 
3-2· 14-2-12A x 2. Sct up on~ per hex III any h~x 
within twO he~es (on~ imervenrng he~) of a bar-
racks hex in STilish zone. 
Frtnch Units: 
U- 12M x I, U· 12Tx I , U- I ~ R x I, 
4-3·20·2·12A x I. Sct up on~ per h~:c. in any hex 
within IWO hexes (on~ intervening he~) of a 
barrad.s hex in French zone. 
The Wanllw l'.cl l'll)'u 's Urlils 
' st EQn GtrmQn M«hQnhtd I)il'i$ion: 
U-I2M x 9, 4-O--20-1- IOA )( 1. Sct up one per he~ 
in any he:c.es of 1'015dam (3409, 3~09, 3~ I O, 
3610,36 11 .3710,3711. 38 10, 38 11 . 3911). 
14th Guards Mlc/wn/ztd I)II'/s/on: 
U-12M )( 9, 4-O--20-1- IOA )( 1. & t up one per hell 

in any hexes within thrce hexes of the southern 
mapedge. 
19rh Soder Mcchal1iud Oil'ision: 
U-121\1 x 9, 4-0-20-1-IOA X I. Sct up one per hex 
in any hexes in hex rows 3hx, 38xx, 39xx north 
of he.uow xx lS, inclusive. 
SQ";er 6fh Gllards Mtchuniud lJil'ision: 
U-12M x 9, 4-0-20-1-IOA x I. Sci up one per hex 
in any he.~es wilhin Ihree hexes of Ihe norlh 
mapedge. 
SUI'itt J4th Artillery O;,'/s;OI1: 
6-2-18-1-IOA x 6. 5· 1 -2~- 1 - 10 x 3. Sci up one per 
hex in any hexes in East Germany or Easl Berlin 
within j hnes of any rnapedge. All units mUSI 
be sel up wilhin 6 hnes of each other. 
East Rerlin Police: 
U-SP x S. Sci up in any urban hex in East Bedin. 
[21. 12) Reinforcernenl Schedule 
Wuuw ]>!lCI Rt inf"rctrnt nlS 
Tht SOI'itt IOJrtl Guartls Puruchute Oi"ision: 
U-6PC x 9. May arrive allY time 011 Game-Turn 
I or succeeding Turns via airlanding or 
paradrop. 
NATO ReinforcemenlS 
The Wtsr German 10th Jagubrif(utle: 
U-12Mx5, 1-2-4-4-I2Ax I. 2·j-15-2-12Ax I. 
May arrive only as NATO emergency reinforce-
menlS (see 11.0). 
[21.1)) Ground Supporl Schedule 
See Turn Record Track on maps heel. 
[l l.14[ Scenario l ength. 
The scenario is 16 Game-Turns long. 
[21.1 51 SpedMI Rules 
I. Warsaw Paci police unils may nut move or 
auaek umil Game·Turn Three. 
2. The Warsaw Paci Player receives a combal 
bonus of IWO column shifls in both Combal 
Phases of Ihe firSI Game-Turn, This shifl is usable 
in allacks involvingadjacem unils only. 
[2 1.1 61 Vielory Condilions 
Sec 20.0 
[21.2J OPERATION WEREWOLF 
Uislorical Noles: 
It is lale summer. ]985. EuroP<' is in Ihe grip of war 
fever. Soviet supporl of Ihe OPEC boycou against 
America and Western Europe has led to increased 
East-Wesl friction. Economic and political con-
niCt has generated military preparalions. In Ihe 
isolaled enclave of Wesl Berlin, lension is high as 
units of the 20th Guards Army mme inlO posilion 
on the perimeler of Ihe cily. The NATO training 
areas ill the weslern districts have bCt:ome collec-
tion poinlS for neal rows of gleaming new APC's. 
their hatches dogged, Iheir markings oblilerated. 
For Ihree weeks heavy CrateS labelled ., Worldwide 
AmusemenlS: 
PariS" have been arriving al 
USAE's Berlin HQ. Sirangely enough, the 
likelihood of war has hardly affceled Berlin's 
tourisl industry. The Templehof lerminol daily 
te .... ms with new arrivals, deeply lanned, well-
muscled ~oung men in ill-fiuing sporl coalS. Only 
a handful of people inside Berlin know Ihal Ihese 
new arrivals are pari of the 10lh Jagerbdgade. 
Operation Werewolf is in progress. When Ihe ex~ 
pected Warsaw Pact assault commences, there will 
be a surprise lurking wilhin the cily. 
(21.21) Inilial SCi-U p 
The inilial SCI-Up is identical to 12.11 with the 
following exceptions: 
WeSI Berlin police unils ma~ be set up anywhere in 
West Berlin. They are nOI confined to selling up in 
supply and air control lower he~es. 
The 3 Soviet mechanized di~isions (19th, 141h 
GuardS, 6th Guards) and Ihe 34th Artillery Divi-
sion may set up anywhere in EaSI Germany or East 
Berlin nOI in an Enemy ZOC. The len units of a 
mechanized division mUSI all sel up within 12 
hexes of each olher. 
After all Warsaw Pact unilS hav .... set up, Ihe 
NATO Pla~er may set up Ihe following units con-
slilUting Ihe ]Olh Jagcrbrigade an~where in West 
Berlin: 
U-12M x 5, 1-2-4-4-12A x I, 2-3-1 S-2-12A x t. 
(21.22J Reinforcemenl ScheduLe 
The Reinforcemem Schedule is identicaL 10 2].12 
wilh the exception Ihat NATO receives no lalld 
unilS as emergency reinforcements. Inslead, Ihe 
NATO Player receives 6 Ground Supporl Points 
and ma~ roll again for reinforcemenlS on any suc-
ceeding Turn(s). In effecl. a " 12" on Ihe Rein-
forcemcm Table is read as if it were an "] I" for 
purposes of this scenario on]~. 
[21. 23) Ground Support Schedule 
Sec Turn Record Track on map~heet. 
121.24] Scenario i,cngth 
The scenario is 16 Game-Turns iong. 
121.25] Sptcial Rules 
t. NATO police units receive a one column shifl 
in Iheir favor on bOlh allack and defense 
Ihroughoul the game. This bOllus shift applies 
even when bOlh police and non-police units are in-
vo]ved in the same combat. This rule represents 
Ihe a!lachmcnt of mililia 10 police companies dur-
ing the period of lension which is assumed 10 
precede the scenario. NOle: A quarter of a million 
Siands of arms have supposedly been slockpiled in 
Berlin for just this purpose. 
2. NATO may demolish POL hexes in the same 
manner used to demolish bridges (12.0). Whenever 
a Warsaw Paci unit moves adjacent 10 a POL hex 
in Wesl Berlin, this option may be exercised. 
121.26} Vfclory Condilions 
See 20.0. 
[21.3J OPERATION MlOiCINt: WHEEL 
llislorinl Noles: 
II is 1600 houlS on day IWO or Ihe war between 
NATO and the WarS;!W Pacl. As Ihe twO behe-
mOlhs wreslle 10 Ihe wesl. Ihe lOP level leadership 
of the isolated Berlin garrison meelS 10 discuss the 
implememalion of COl1lingenc~ plans for a mass 
raid illlo East Germany. The four brigades of Ihe 
secretly reinforced garrison are being masked by 
elemenlS of the 20th Guards Army. There is a pos-
sibilily Ihat a strong enough thrusl can be mount .... d 
10 CUI Ihe main eaSt-WeSt rail line running just 
soul h of thc city. Olher possibililies include the 
culling of Ihe road nelwork around Ihe enclave 
and a nuisance allack inlo Easl Berlin. Time is 
shorl, however, and any raid must be mounted 
wilhinlhe neXI 24 hours if il is 10 have any value at 
all for Ihe troops fighling to Ihe wesl. Outside the 
cil~. the Soviel screening force prepares 10 comain 
Ihe expeCled sonie. Behind their protective guns 
long columns of vehicles snake westward 10 rein-
force the Warsaw Pacl assault on Germany. 
121.3]] Initial Stl-U p 
BOlh Players receive Ihe same inilial for~es as in 
21.11 e~ceplthallhe Warsaw PaCI Player does nOI 
rttciv .... Ihe IOJrd Guards Parachute Division or 
Ihe lsi Easl German l\1eehaniled Division. The 
NATO Player selS up all of his police unilS nrsl 
anywhere in Wesl Bcrlin (nOt nceessarily on supply 
he~es) . Then Ihe Warsaw P3cl ]>Iayer sels upall of 
his unilS anywhere in EaSI Germany or EaSI 
Berlin. When all Warsaw Pact unils have been set 
up the NATO Player selS up all of his non-police 
unilS anywhere in West Berlin (regardless of zone). 
Unil s may set up in Enemy Zones of Conlrol. 
There is no Warsaw Paci Player Turn on the firsl 
Game-Turn. No units may ever be wilhhe]d from 
the inilial set-up in Ihis scenario, 
(11.J 21 ReinforcemenlJ 
Neilher side receives reinforcemenls of any kind 
(including NATO emergency reinforcements). 
Emergency reinforc .... mems arc ne\'er rolled for in 
this scenario. 
[21.3JJ Ground Support Sehtdule 
The Warsaw Pacl Player receives a random 
nllmber of Air Ground Support Points each Turn 
during Ihis scena rio. The NATO Player never 
rec .... ives any Air Ground Supparl Points. The 
Ground Support Schedule on Ihe Turn Reeord 
Track is ignored. I nSlead, Ihe Warsaw Pact Player 
rolls a die at Ihe beginning of each Game·Turn. He 
receives a number of Ground Suppon PoinlS for 
use during Ihal Turn (on]y) \'ilualto !he resuiting 
number on Ihe die. 
(2 ] .341 Scenario lrnRth 
The scenario begins on Game-Turn 7 and con· 
tillues for 10 Game-Turns (until the end of Game· 
Turn ]6). 
121.35] Sptdyl Rules 
I. The "Honors of War" Table, Reinforcemem 
Table, Survival Tab]e. Scalier Diagram. and Sur-
render Poims Re.::ord Track are nOI used in Ihis 
scenario. SeClions 17.0, 18.0. ]9.0 and 20.0 arc in· 
operative for purpos .... s of this scenario. 
2. West Berlin police unils may enter Dolh EaSI 
Berlin and EaSI Germany and may trace supply 
Ihrough one border hexside. They may also elller 
Enemy ZOC's. 
3. NATO (bul not Warsaw Pacl) units may exit 
Ihe mapedge during IheiT Movemelll Phas .... (only) 
by paying IWO additional MP's toexilthc mapcdge 
(regardless of the type of terrain in Ihe hex from 
which Ihey exit). Units may exil Ihe north. south 
and wesl (but nOI the east) mapcdges. 
4. The Warsaw Paci Player's units are out of sup-
ply at the beginning oflhe game. They remain out 
ofsupply untillhe Warsaw Pact Player succeeds in 
gelling a new "'supply priorilY." AI Ihe beginning 
of each Game·Turn starling wilh Game-Turn 8. 
Ihe Warsaw Paci Player may allempl 10 place his 
unilS in supply by rolling a die. On a roJi of 5 or 6, 
all Warsaw PaCI units remain unsupplied. On a 
roll of 1 ~4, Ihe Warsaw Pact IInils arc given a 
higher supply priority. Beginning on the Game-
Turn after the new priorilY is achieved, all Warsaw 
PaCI unilS are considered to be in supply if they can 
meel the requiremems of 14.0. This new supply 
priorilY pertains for the remainder of Ihe scenario. 
If an allempt 10 achi .... ve a new supply priority is 
unsuccessful, a new allempl may be made on each 
succeeding Game-Turn unilithe priority is achkv-
cd. ]f the NATO Player has occupied the rail line 
running belween 0108 and 2302 at any poinl in Ihe 
scenario. "I"' is sublracted from the die roll 10 
achieve a new supply priority. 
S. The Warsaw PaCI Player may demolish bridges 
in EaSI Germany and Eas! Berlin whenever a 
NATO unil firsl moves adjacent to those bridges. 
Th", melhod used is Ihe same as in ]2.0. 
12 1.J6] VlclOry Condilions 
The Victory Conditions in seclion 20.0 are in-
operative for purposes of this scenario. Instead , 
both sides arc gi~en Victory Poims (Vr's) for 
destroying Enemy unilS and occupying lerrain. In 
addilion, the NATO Player recei"es VP's for ex-
iling unils from Ihe map. VP's arc awarded 
according 
to 
Ihe 
following 
Viclory 
Poim 
Schedule: 
NATO VI" s: 
I VP 
2 vr's 
2 VP's 
For 
ea~h East Berlin police unit 
deslroyed. 
For each Warsaw Pact non-police unit 
For each NATO unil exited off the 
nOrih or west mapedge. 
Rll 

R12 
1 Vp's 
8 VP'! 
, "P's 
8 VP's 
WP VP's; 
For each NATO unit eJliled orr the 
south mapedgc. 
For occupying an)' one hell of Ihe 
Autobahn nmnins between hues 0131 
and 1440(bul nOI the branch road end-
ing in hu (626) allhe end of the game. 
For each Game-T urn during whkh onc 
or more hexes of the rail lirK: between 
heus 0108 and 2302 is inlerdicled by 
NATO arlillery fire. 
Foreach Game-Turn durinll which one 
or more htxes of the- rail line between 
hexes 0108 and 2302 is occupied by one 
or morc NATO uniu al any lime dur-
inllthe Game-Turn. 
I VP 
For each West Ikrlin police unit 
2 VP', 
2 v P's 
For tach non-police NATO unit 
For each barracks or obj«livc he~ in 
WtSl Berlin through "'hich Warsaw 
Pact units wen: the lasl 10 pass or 
which is physically occupied by War-
511111' Paci units althe end of the gamC'. 
If the NATO Player fails to occupy one 
hex of the Autobahn runni", btt .... etn 
he~"O I J I and 1440 at the end of the 
game. 
For each full Game-Turn duri", which 
the NATO Playel fails to interdict or 
OC("upy one or more he.u s of the rail 
line btt .. ·etn htxts 0108 and 2302. 
E~ited NATO units mUSt be: in supply at the end of 
the game 10 COUllt for NATO VP's. 
Any e~iled units for .... hich a line of supply cannot 
be: tract'd from their e~it htx to a ~alid supply 
source al the end of the game are considered 
eliminated and count double for purposts of War· 
saw Pact VP determination. 
The Player with the higher VP total at the end of 
the ,arne is the .... inner. The level of victory is 
determined by the level of Victory Point susx-rior-
ity achic\"C~d Over the Enemy. This is detcrmined by 
subtracting the lo ... er VP total from the high~ VP 
total and comparing the resulting numbe:r to the 
table be:low. 
Mar,inal Victory 
Substantive Victory 
Strate,ic Victory 
I· IS VP's 
IS-29 VP's 
30+ VP's 
DESIGN CREDITS 
Designer: JamH ~' . Llunnill:lln 
Physical Systems and Graphics: 
Rttlmond A. SlmonSfn 
Developer: Ib~ld bmts RUehle 
[)c1.·elopmcntal Assistant: Nick Karp 
Rules Editing: O .... d IItsStl 
Playtest;ng: 
ChriJtophu J)ulnnniud., Jon Gllutler , 
Mk hael Georl" Gary Glllelle, 
I)lck Hammu . .. hlllp Marchal, lliot Mohde, 
ScOIl KO!itnthl l. Mark Starn. Sam Shermtr. 
JlmSlmon. Koger Ta) lor. Tim Robbins. 
Mu Wrissmln 
Production: 
Oa" r t:nglrr, MlISllind Fruehtmlll, 
P. J. llendtrsnn, l 'w Koller. 
Ml nhN F. Mllkuhn. Mlchllel!-:. Moore. 
Rob N)"cr 
+ .... 
J; .. 
. J; .. 
~ .. .. 
,I .. .. 
-! .. .. 
J; .. 
+It It 
Ita 
+lI * 
+lI II 
* II * II 
* II 
**
.. - .... 
-, .' 
,:~ , 
't- 'i' 
.. ,,, .. " 
; •. ;tit. 
.. !;'., .. 510, 
;1-. " 
-iii: ; •. 
~", .. r" 
. 1 ' I 
~ ' ." .... '" 
~~ :l 
~ ~t 
't, 
.. '. 
~ .. ". 
.. ~" """ 
III III 
, """."". 
of, ~ • 
!J" 11-
;1 h· 
..' --. :." 
. . 
'-I '1-
,-
it. 
"" "" 
0 ' 
.1 
~I' 
0,,:';' 
C OO 
~ .. I 
0 ' .... 
~ i' .~,. 
~r ~, . 
~'T 
!Ul: 
,UI: 
!Ul: 
"Ut 
lUI; 
,Ui: 
", ... , 
: ( 
, ~. 
, , 
~i; ~II 
:; 
• 
f." ,II 
F~ 
~ ~-; 
c·.. " .. 
iI' .. 1Jo 
f 
~I, 
~II fl' 
~IJ 
~II 
~ •• 
... 
i 
~I ~I ' 
~I' ~! 
a-,,' 
a ~! 
~t 'I. 
a· ~I 
0,1_ °, . . '. 
i 1