www.decipher.com
www.beybladetcg.com

What is a trading card game?
Most card games have one deck of cards that never changes, but a
trading card game (or TCG) is different. In a TCG, each player has his own
deck, and decks can have different cards in them. You can build your deck
with any cards in your collection. Since your opponent does the same
thing, you never know how the game will end!
The best way to learn to play is from a friend who already knows how.
If your friends aren’t players yet, this rulebook will get you started… then
you can show them how to play!
The Beyblade Trading Card Game
The Beyblade TCG lets you fight a battle against one or more opponents. In
the game, you’ll control your Blade like you never could before. It will
jump, zigzag, dodge, chase – all with the play of a card. With your favorite
characters on your side, you’ll battle to run your opponent’s Blade out of
spin before he can do the same to yours!
My name is Kenny. You can call me Chief. As you read the
rules, I’ll help explain things and show you how it all works.
I’ll also give a few strategy tips to help you become a world-
class Beyblader!
BEYBLADE TRADING CARD GAME
What is a trading card game? . . .1
The Beyblade Trading Card Game .1
Card Types . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Color
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Battle Edge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Blade
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Character . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Event
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
How to win the game . . . . . . . . .7
STARTINGA GAME . . . . . . . . . . .7
BASICRULES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Play a card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Stopping your attack . . . . . .8
If the defender stops you . . .9
The end of battle . . . . . . . .10
If nothing stops you . . . . .11
If you lose . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Refill your hand . . . . . . . . . . .11
The end of your turn . . . . . . .12
Passing your turn . . . . . . . . .12
OTHERBASICRULES . . . . . . . . .13
Battle Edge Symbols . . . . . . .13
Building a Deck . . . . . . . . . . .14
Competitive Play . . . . . . . . . .15
ADVANCEDRULES . . . . . . . . . . .16
Game text . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Play a card . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Playing a Character . . . . . .17
Playing an Event . . . . . . . .18
Playing an Action . . . . . . .18
Game text during battles . .19
Refill your hand . . . . . . . . . . .20
COLLECTORINFO . . . . . . . . . . .21
Special Promo Cards . . . . . . .21
GLOSSARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
A SAMPLEGAME . . . . . . . . . . .23
TABLE OF CONTENTS
© HUDSON SOFT/TAKARA • BEYBLADE PROJECT • TV TOKYO
© Aoki Takao • BB2Project • TV Tokyo Licensed by d-rights Inc.
TM, ®, & © 2003 Decipher Inc., P.O. Box 56, Norfolk,Virginia U.S.A. 23501.
All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A.

Blade
Blade cards show different Beyblades you can use to take on an
opponent. You start the game with your Blade in front of you.
Each Blade has a spin strength. You start the game with this many
cards in a spin pile stacked under the Blade. Your goal is to run all the
other Blades out of spin. If you lose all the cards in your spin pile, you
lose the game.
The color bar across the bottom of the Blade shows you the order in
which colors must be played during a battle.
You’ll see how this all works a bit later. For now, just
remember that Blades are the one card type that doesn’t
come in different colors.
Card types
There are four different card types in the game: Blade, Action,
Character, and Event. You’ll find pictures of each of the card types on
the next few pages.
Color
Except for Blades, each card in the game is one of four colors: red,
yellow, green, or blue.
The color of a card is not related to the card’s type. There
are Actions, Characters, and Events of all four colors. The
card type symbols on these cards, not their color, helps you
know which card type is which.
Battle Edge
Across the top of every card in the game, you’ll find a battle edge.
During the game, your cards will clash with your opponents’ cards, and
you’ll compare the pieces in your battle edges.
SPIN STRENGTH
SUBTITLE
COLLECTOR’S INFO
COLOR BAR

Action
You use Action cards to start a battle with an opponent. Battles are the
main way to make an opponent lose cards from his spin pile.
In the advanced game, Actions can also give you bonuses
during a battle.
Character
Character cards show people like Tyson, Kai, Ray, Max, Kenny, and
many others. They’re rooting for you to win, and offer bonuses to help you
along.
In the advanced game, Characters you play stay in front of
you from one turn to the next. The same Character might
help you many times during the game!
SUBTITLE

Event
Event cards usually show things that happen outside of battle, but they
can still have a strong effect on the game.
Events are strongest in the advanced game, where you can
make full use of their special game text.
How to win the game
Each player has his own Blade, with a number of cards in a spin pile
under the Blade. When you lose all the cards in your spin pile, you lose
and are out of the game. But if all the other players are knocked out, the
game is over and you win!
Starting A Game
Your deck has one Blade card. Take that card out and put it face up in
front of you.
Shuffle the rest of your deck. Let your opponent cut it.
Check the spin strength on your Blade card. Take that many cards one at
a time from the top of your deck, without looking at them. Put them face
down in a spin pile. Put the Blade card face up on top.
Each player draws five cards for his hand.
Decide which player will go first. The first player takes a turn, then the
next player to the left, and so on. Keep going this way until one player
wins.
One way you can decide who goes first is to have each
player cut to a random card in his own deck and show it.
Count the live pieces in the battle edge of your card. The
player with the highest number goes first. If there is a tie
between players, they can cut again until they break the tie.

The order of colors is red, yellow, green, then blue. When you reach the
end of the color bar, you start over again at the other end.
If you played a red card to start a battle with your opponent,
he would need a yellow card to stop it, because yellow is
the next color in order. Or if you played a blue card, it
would take a red card to stop it.
If the defender has the right color to stop you, then he plays that card
face up. It starts a second battle pile right in front of yours.
If the defender stops you
If you start a battle by playing one color, and the defender has the right
color to stop you, you haven’t lost yet. Now it’s your turn to try to stop the
defender’s card. Again, the order of colors on your Blade tells you what
color comes next.
If you started a battle with a green card, and the defender
stopped it with a blue card, you can now stop that card if
you have a red card to play.
If you have the color you need, take that card and put it on
top of your battle pile, covering up the first card you played.
The battle goes on, back and forth between the attacker and defender, as
long as each player has a card that can still be played. Each player plays
the next card on top of his own battle pile, covering up the cards he
already played.
Basic Rules
In this version of the game, players ignore the game text on the cards.
This allows anyone to play, even if they are not yet able to read well.
Play a card
The first thing you do when it is your turn is play a card. Choose a card
from your hand and play it face up in front of you.
This becomes the first card in your battle pile, and starts a battle with
your opponent. You become the attacker, and your opponent becomes
the defender.
The defender now has to stop your card, or your attack will hit his Blade.
If you’re playing with more than one opponent, you choose
which one you want to be the defender.
Stopping your attack
To stop your card, the defender must play a card from his own hand, with
the right color needed to block the hit.
On your Blade card, you’ll find a color bar like the one below. It shows the
order in which colors must be played.

Remember, you’re trying to make your opponents lose all
the cards in their spin piles. If you’re the last player with
any spin left, you win!
If nothing stops you
Sometimes when you’re the attacker, the defender won’t stop you and the
very first card you play will win the battle. If this happens, the defender
won’t have a battle pile to compare your card to. Instead, just line your
card up right against the defender’s Blade. Count your hits with the Blade’s
battle edge, then discard your card.
If you lose
When you’re the attacker and you lose the battle, nothing happens. The
defender doesn’t lose any spin, but neither do you. He can only hit you
when you are the defender. Each of you discards the cards in your battle
piles without checking battle edges.
Refill your hand
Now that the battle has ended, your turn is almost over. All that’s left to do
is refill your hand.
Before you end your turn, each player must have five cards. You will have
less than this because of the battle, so draw cards one at a time until
you’re back up to five.
The end of battle
Sooner or later, one player won’t have the right card needed to stop his
opponent. When you don’t play a card to stop the other player, you lose
the battle.
You don’t have to stop an opponent’s card just because you
have the right color to do it. Sometimes you might want to
let your opponent win and save your cards for later.
When you’re the attacker and you win the battle, you’ve
hit the opponent. Take the top card of your battle pile and line the battle
edge right up against the top card of the defender’s battle pile.
Compare the battle edges of the two cards. In some places, you’ll see that
one card has a live piece in the same place as the other card. Each match
counts as one hit on the defender. For each hit you get, the defender has
to take one card from the top of his spin
pile and discard it.
When you compare these
battle edges, there are two
matches. That means the
defender discards the top
two cards of his spin pile.
After you’ve counted hits and the defender
has lost any spin, take all the cards in your
battle pile and put them in your discard pile. The defender takes all the
cards in his battle pile and puts them in his own discard pile, too.

Every player refills his own hand to five cards at the end of
every turn. Sometimes that means the defender you battled
will draw cards too, even though it’s your turn.
Any time you draw the last card from your deck, just
shuffle your discard pile and start a new deck.
The end of your turn
Once every player has refilled his hand, your turn is over. The next player
to your left takes a turn now, playing a card to start a battle.
Passing your turn
When it’s your turn, if you want to, you can pass. When you do this,
instead of playing a card to start a battle, you discard your whole hand.
Then when players refill their hands at the end of your turn, you draw five
new cards.
Sometimes you won’t like the cards in your hand. Maybe
they’re all the same color, and you know you won’t win a
battle if the defender can stop your first card. That would be
a great time to pass your turn – you can discard those
cards and get a brand new hand.
Other Basic Rules
Here are just a few more rules you need to know about while playing the
game.
Battle Edge Symbols
You already know how live pieces in a battle edge are used to count hits
during a battle. Some battle edges have special symbols that work
differently.
Strike piece: If it’s your turn, a strike piece on one of your
cards counts just like a live piece. When it’s not your turn, treat
it like it isn’t even there.
Say it’s your turn and you win a battle. If your strike piece
matches up with a live piece on your opponent’s card, that’s
a hit. But if you match up with a strike piece on your
opponent’s card, it’s a miss. Pretend the opponent’s strike
piece isn’t even there, because it isn’t his turn.
Empty piece: If it’s your opponent’s turn, an empty piece on
one of your cards counts just like a live piece. When it’s your
turn, treat it like it isn’t even there.
An empty piece is the opposite of a strike piece. Say it’s
your opponent’s turn and you lose a battle. If your empty
piece matches up with a live piece or a strike piece on your
opponent’s card, that’s a hit. But you don’t have to worry
about empty pieces on your opponent’s card. They don’t count because it’s
his turn.

If you’re confused, take a
look at these battle edges.
Say it’s your turn. Your card
is the one on the bottom.
The live pieces in the green circle always
count for a match. Plus, since it’s your turn,
both your strike piece and your opponent’s
empty piece count too. That’s three hits!
But now instead, say your card is the one on
the top. It’s your turn still, so that empty piece doesn’t count this time. The
opponent’s strike piece doesn’t count either. Only the one match in the
green circle scores a hit.
Building a deck
You can change the cards in your deck to play a different strategy. But
every deck you play with must follow these rules.
Your deck must have at least 60 cards in it. You can have more if you
want to, but no less.
One of your cards must be a Blade. You’ll start the game with this Blade in
front of you. You can’t put any other Blades in your deck.
You don’t have to use the same number of cards for all four
colors, but doing that will probably give you the best chance
to stop your opponent when you’re attacked.
Your deck can have no more than four copies of any one card. Cards with
the same title count as the same, no matter what else is on the card.
See, there’s more than one version of some Characters, like
my friend Tyson. In the Collision set, you can get Tyson,
Eager Champion. There’s also a special promo version of
him called Tyson, Bladebreaker. If you want, you can use
them both in the same deck. But both have the same title, Tyson. That
means you can’t use four copies of each of them, just four total.
Competitive Play
You may want to play your opponent in a best-of-three-games match, just
like in the Beyblade tournaments the Bladebreakers have played. The
winner of the match is the first player to win two games.
For the second or third game of the match, the loser of the last game goes
first.

Playing a Character
When you play a Character, you must test it.
To test a Character, you show it to everyone, and your opponent takes the
top card of his deck and shows it. (If you have more than one opponent,
you choose one to do this.)
Take your Character and line it right up against the opponent’s card.
Compare the battle edges of the two cards. You’re looking for your
Character to “score a hit” on the opponent’s card.
If there’s no hit, then your Character has failed the test. Put it in your
discard pile. Nothing else happens, and you don’t get any bonus from the
Character.
If there is a hit, then your Character has passed the test. You now put
it face up on the table. That Character’s game text describes what
bonuses it gives you, and you get to keep using it again and again unless
something happens to remove that Character.
If a Character is removed, it goes to its owner’s discard pile, and its game
text stops working.
You can’t try to test a Character if you have another Character with the
same title already in front of you.
If you already have Kai in front of you from an earlier turn,
you can’t show another Kai now and try to test him. But if
your opponent has Kai in front of him, you can still test
yours. It’s okay if each of you has your own copy of the
same Character.
Advanced Rules
In this version of the game, the game text of the cards is used to add
more strategy and choices.
Be sure you’ve read and understand the basic rules before
you keep going. The advanced rules don’t explain the whole
game, only the parts that are different from the basic game.
Game text
Game text can do a lot of different things, but many cards have a limit on
when you can use their game text. Some can only be used during your
turn. Others can only be used during an opponent’s turn. Each card
will use these words to tell you if it is limited in these ways.
Right away, game text will change the way you play the
game. The Blade you start with has game text, giving you a
bonus you can use all game long.
Play a card
When it is your turn and you play a card, it might not start a battle the
same way it does in the basic rules. There are three different kinds of
cards you can play, and each works in a different way.
You will play one (and only one) of the following:
• A Character
• An Event
• An Action

When the attacker wins, he counts hits by comparing battle edges, just
like in the basic rules.
It only takes an Action to start a battle. Once it has started,
both the attacker and defender can use any card – an
Action, Character, or Event – to stop the other player. It just
has to be the right color. You can even play a Character that
is already in front of you. You’re not testing the Character, you’re just trying
to stop your opponent.
Game text during battles
Action cards that you play during a battle might have game text that gives
you a bonus, so you should pay attention to the Actions you play.
Each Action card has a symbol at the start of its game text. It tells you
that the card does something either when you play it, or when you win a
battle with it.
π If you play an Action with the play symbol, then you should read the
game text and do what it says right then. It might give you an edge to
help win the battle. It might make your opponent lose spin right then, even
before the battle ends. All kinds of things can happen, and the play symbol
is your reminder to look for them.
∑If you play an Action with the win symbol, then you don’t get to use
the game text right away. But if your opponent can’t stop that Action and
you win the battle with that card on top of your battle pile, you get the
bonus. First, check your battle edge and count hits your opponent must
take, just like normal. Then read the game text of the Action and do what
it says.
After you play a Character, whether it passed the test or failed it, your
opponent discards the test card he drew. And either way, you have played
a card, so it’s time to skip ahead and refill your hand.
Playing an Event
When you play an Event, you must test it.
Just like with a Character, you test an Event by showing it, and choosing
an opponent to show the top card of his deck. Line up the cards and
compare battle edges.
If there’s no hit, then your Event has failed the test. Put it in your
discard pile. Nothing else happens.
If there is a hit, then your Event has passed the test. Events aren’t the
same as Characters. You don’t put them in front of you, and you don’t get
to keep using them. Instead, do what the card says right now, one time
only. Then put the card in your discard pile.
Whether your Event passed the test or failed it, your opponent discards the
test card he drew. Either way, you have played a card, so it’s time to skip
ahead and refill your hand.
Playing an Action
When you play an Action card, it starts a battle with your opponent. Only
an Action will start a battle. If you play a Character or an Event instead,
you do as described earlier.
Battle works the same as in the basic rules, with the attacker and
defender playing cards back and forth, following the sequence of colors.

Collector Info
In the lower right corner of every card, you’ll find information to help you
keep track of your collection.
Each set has its own icon. For Collision, it’s the Tyson icon
shown here.
To the left of the set icon is a symbol that shows how rare the card is —
Í is starter, Ç is common, ¨ is uncommon, ‰ is rare, ˛ is xtra
rare, and ∏is for special promo cards.
To the right of the set icon is the number for that card in the set.
Special Promo Cards
There are 130 different cards in the Collision set of the Beyblade TCG. You
can also get several special promo cards in other ways, such as playing in
leagues and tournaments. For more information on these cards and where
to get them, check dgma.com.
Glossary
attacker – One of two players involved in a battle. The player taking his
turn.
battle pile – The stack of cards played by each player as they take part
in a battle.
defender – One of two players involved in a battle. The player who is not
taking his turn.
discard – To take a card from a player’s hand and put it in that player’s
discard pile. Some cards make players discard from other places, like from
If you play an Action with the win symbol, but then cover it
up later in the battle when you play a new card, you don’t
get the bonus if you win. Only the top card of your battle
pile matters.
If you play a Character or an Event during a battle to stop an opponent’s
card, you don’t get to use its game text. Only the game text of an Action
card will work during a battle.
If you want to use the Character or the Event card’s game
text, you’ll have to play it on your turn instead of starting a
battle.
Refill your hand
Just like in the basic rules, you must end your turn by refilling your hand
to five cards. Usually, you’ll have less than five. But some game text lets
you draw extra cards during a turn, so sometimes you might have more.
If you have less than five cards: Draw cards from your deck until you
have five in your hand.
If you have more than five cards: You must choose and discard
cards from your hand until you have only five.
If you have exactly five cards: Do nothing. You’re right where you
need to be.
Remember, every player refills his own hand at this time,
even though it’s your turn.

spin pile – The cards stacked face down under a Blade card. You lose
the game if there are no cards left in your spin pile.
stop – To play a card in a battle after your opponent has played one. If a
player cannot stop his opponent, that player loses the battle.
test – To check the battle edge of a Character or Event being played
against the battle edge of a card shown from the top of an opponent’s
deck.
test card – The top card of an opponent’s deck that is shown when a
player tests a Character or Event.
A Sample Game
Mike and Geoff sit down to play a game using the advanced rules.
They’re playing with the two different kinds of Collision starter decks.
Start: Each player takes his Blade card from his deck and puts it face up
in front of him. Mike is using Dragoon, Tyson’s Beyblade. Geoff has
Dranzer, Kai’s Beyblade.
Each player shuffles his deck and lets his opponent cut it.
Both players check the spin strength on their Blades. Dragoon and Dranzer
each have 6 spin, so each player counts 6 cards, one at a time, off the top
of his own deck, then puts them in his spin pile with his own Blade on top.
Now each player draws 5 cards for his hand.
Geoff – Turn 1: Geoff goes first. He plays Clever Tactic, an Action card,
starting a battle with Mike. It’s a yellow card, so Mike needs a green card
to stop it.
Mike has a green card, Tearing It Up, and plays it to stop Geoff.
the top of a deck. But unless a card says differently, you always discard a
card from hand.
draw – To take a card from the top of a player’s deck and put it in that
player’s hand.
gain spin – To take the top card of a player’s deck and put it on the
bottom of that player’s spin pile. You can’t have more cards your spin pile
than the spin strength of your Blade. If your spin pile is full (or almost full)
when game text lets you gain spin, you can go up to that limit, but then
you must ignore the rest.
hit – Each live piece that matches an opponent’s live piece when you
compare battle edges after a battle. A losing defender loses one spin for
each hit he takes.
lore – Text on a card with information about the picture or Character
being shown. It has no effect on the game.
lose spin – To take the top card of a player’s spin pile and put it in that
player’s discard pile. If you lose the last card in your spin pile, you lose
the game.
random card – If game text tells you to pick a random card, mix up
your cards, hold them so an opponent can’t see what they are, and let that
opponent pick one.
refill – To draw (or discard) cards at the end of a player’s turn, until you
have five cards.
remove – To take a Character a player has in front of him, and put it in
its owner’s discard pile.
spin – A card in a player’s spin pile.

Mike – Turn 2: Mike plays The Roar of the Crowd, a blue Action.
Battle’s on and Geoff needs a red card. He plays Outclassed. It’s okay that
he plays an Event, since the battle has already started.
Mike fights back with Force of the Dragon, a yellow Action, and Geoff has
nothing to stop it.
First, Mike compares the battle edges of Force of the Dragon and
Outclassed, and scores 1 hit. Geoff loses a spin, putting Mike ahead 5
spin to 4 spin.
Now Mike looks at his game text. Force of the Dragon has game text you
use when you win on your turn, and Mike did just that. He can take a red
Character from his deck, put it in his hand, and reshuffle his deck. He
does this, getting Dunga, Hothead from his deck.
Now they each refill their hands, drawing 1 card each.
Geoff – Turn 3: Geoff’s hand is full of cards he doesn’t want, so he
decides to pass his turn. He discards his hand, then draws 5 new cards.
Mike – Turn 3: Mike plays Dunga, Hothead, the Character card he put
in his hand last turn. He has to test it.
Geoff shows the top card of his deck. It’s Just Leave Me Alone, Okay? They
line up the battle edges, but there’s no match. That means no Dunga. Both
players discard their cards.
Mike draws 1 card to refill his hand.
Geoff now needs a blue card to stop that, and plays Mariam, Wild Spirit.
It’s a Character card, but Geoff isn’t using it to start a battle, so it’s okay
for him to play it.
Mike doesn’t have a red card to play, so Geoff wins the battle. Geoff
compares the battle edge of Mariam and Tearing It Up, scoring 1 hit.
Mike discards the top card of his spin pile. It happens to be Exhausted, a
red card, so Dragoon’s game text makes Geoff lose a card from his spin
pile too! Geoff loses the spin, and now each player has 5 left.
Both players now must refill their hands to 5 cards. Geoff draws 2 cards
and Mike draws 1.
Mike – Turn 1: Mike decides to play Ms. Kincaid, School Teacher. It’s a
Character card, so he has to test it.
Geoff shows the top card of his deck. It’s Going Over the Data. Comparing
the battle edges, there’s a match, so Mike puts Ms. Kincaid in front of him.
Geoff discards Going Over the Data.
Both players now refill their hands. Mike draws 1 card. Geoff already has 5
cards, so he doesn’t draw any.
Geoff – Turn 2: Geoff plays a blue card, Picking Up Speed. It’s an
Action card, so it starts a battle.
This time, Mike has a red card. He plays Training Regimen.
Geoff doesn’t have a yellow card to play, so the battle ends. Nobody loses
spin, because Mike was the defender when he won.
Both players draw 1 card to refill their hands.

Mike – Turn 4: Mike decides he needs some spin back, so he plays
Lunch, an Event to gain 1 spin. But first he has to test it.
Geoff shows the top card of his deck, and it’s Digging In. Comparing the
battle edges, there is a match, so the Event works. Mike gains 1 spin,
putting the top card of his deck on the bottom of his spin pile.
Mike discards Lunch, Geoff discards Digging In, and Mike draws 1 card to
refill his hand. Mike now has 5 spin to Geoff’s 4.
Geoff – Turn 5: Geoff plays a new copy of Loop Back Around, this time
not using its game text.
Mike needs a blue card to stop Geoff’s green one, but doesn’t have it.
Since Mike never played a card, Geoff lines Loop Back Around right up
against Dragoon to compare battle edges. The empty piece on Loop Back
Around doesn’t count since it’s his turn, so Geoff scores 2 hits.
Mike loses 2 spin, and neither one is a red card, which puts Geoff on top,
4 spin to 3 spin. Geoff draws 1 card to refill his hand.
Mike – Turn 5: Mike plays Tearing It Up, starting a battle.
Geoff needs a blue card to stop it, and plays Bad Company.
Mike plays a red card, Sprained Ankle. Geoff has no yellow card, so Mike
wins. Mike compares the battle edges of Sprained Ankle and Bad Company,
scoring 2 hits. Geoff loses 2 spin. (Also, the game text of Carried Off would
make Geoff remove one of his Characters, if he had any.)
Mike is now winning, 3 spin to 2, as both players refill their hands.
Geoff – Turn 4: Geoff plays Slammed Into the Wall, a yellow Action.
That means battle.
Mike plays a green card, Gathering Steam, to stop Geoff.
Geoff keeps it going, playing Zigzag Move, a blue card.
Mike plays a red card, Sprained Ankle.
Geoff checks his hand, and doesn’t have any more yellow cards. But he
does have Loop Back Around. Its game text says he can play that card as
the same color as the bottom card of his battle pile. That bottom card is
yellow, which is just what he needs! Geoff plays Loop Back Around as a
yellow card.
Mike needs another green card now, but he doesn’t have it. Geoff wins,
and they compare the battle edges of Sprained Ankle and Loop Back
Around. It’s Geoff’s turn so the empty piece on Loop Back Around doesn’t
count. That leaves 2 other hits, so Mike loses 2 spin.
Mike decides to use the game text of the Ms. Kincaid, School Teacher he
has in front of him, removing her instead of taking 1 of those hits. Now he
loses only 1 spin. He discards the top card of his spin pile, but it isn’t red,
so Dragoon’s game text doesn’t work. It’s all tied up at 4 spin each.
Time to refill the hands. Geoff draws 3 cards. Mike draws 2.

Geoff – Turn 6: Geoff plays Coming Back for More, a green Action.
Mike stops it by playing Raspberry, a blue Action. But the game text on
Coming Back for More says Geoff can put the card back in his hand if the
defender stops it. Geoff picks the card back up.
Now Geoff needs a red card, and plays Whirlwind Defense.
Mike stops Geoff again, playing a yellow card, Take-Charge Strategy.
Geoff needs a green card, so he plays the Coming Back for More he
picked up earlier. This time, Mike can’t stop it. They compare battle edges,
and Mike has to lose 2 spin.
Mike discards the top 2 cards of his spin pile, and one of them is a copy
of Dunga, Hothead, a red card. Dragoon’s game text makes Geoff lose a
spin too! It’s all tied up at 1 spin as both players refill their hands.
Mike – Turn 6: Mike plays Slammed Into the Wall, a yellow Action.
Geoff stops it with a green card, Might of the Phoenix.
Mike stops that with a blue card, No Way!
Geoff hangs on, playing a red card, Whirlwind Defense.
Mike has another yellow card, Digging In, and plays it. Geoff doesn’t have
another green card.
Checking battle edges, there are 2 hits. Geoff has only 1 spin left, so that’s
it for him. He loses the game and Mike is the winner!
Credits
Design:Evan Lorentz, Brad DeFruiter. Development:Joe Alread,
Mike Girard, Geoff Snider. Visual Creative Direction: DanBurns.
Art Direction: Jeff Hellerman. Graphic Design: Joe Boulden,
Rob Burns, Ed Gartin, Ashley Hubert, Mike Schley. Production:Ross
Campbell, Mike Carosi, David Watson, Sandy Wible. For Nelvana:Jon
Graham, Tina Karski, Sid Kaufman, Marjanne Lyn, Roxsanna Mobley, Dan
Mokriy, Kiran Prasher, Monica Santo. For d-rights:Tsuyoshi Kaji,
Mamiko Aoki. Special Thanks:Yoshio Takeuchi, Yoshihiro Nagamori,
Tim Ellington, Chuck Kallenbach, Tom Lischke, Mike Reynolds, our many
playtesters – and as always – Warren Holland.
Contacting Decipher
Check out our website, email us, or call us:
• websites: beybladetcg.com,
decipher.com,
• rules service email:
chief@beybladetcg.com
• customer service email:
customer.service@decipher.com
• telephone: 757-623-3600
• address: P.O. Box 56,
Norfolk, VA, USA 23501-0056