The game is played in rounds. Each team draws four category tiles from 
the bag and places them face-up on the four squares on their side of the 
game board. Correct answers are awarded 1, 2, 3 or 4 points, depending on 
the number of dots, so think carefully about the order in which you place 
your category tiles. Each point corresponds to a space on the scoring track 
on the edge of the box.
Decide which team starts the first round. The first team now answers a 
1-point question read out by one of the other teams. For a correct answer, 
the team is awarded 1 point and advances its playing piece one space. If 
the team passes on a question or gives an incorrect answer, the playing 
piece stays where it is.
Once the question has been played - whether it was answered correctly 
or not – turn over the corresponding category tile so it’s face-down: this 
category is now closed. A new card is drawn, and the next team to the left 
now takes its turn. Repeat these steps until each team has played a 1-point 
question.
The game then continues with each team answering their 2-point question 
in turn (and advancing two spaces for a correct answer). Then, each teams 
answers the 3 and 4-point questions in the same way. A new card is drawn 
for each question. This completes the first round. All the category tiles are 
put back in the bag, and the next round begins. The right to start the next 
round circulates clockwise.
The game ends when one team reaches the last space on the playing 
board - which is the same as the starting space.
If some teams have played fewer questions than the winning team, then 
the question round continues until all teams have attempted the same 
number of questions. Teams do not have to land on the last space by exact 
count for the game to end.
If several teams reach the last space in the same round, these teams face 
each other in a play-off. All the category tiles are put back in the bag. Each 
team in the play-off draws a category tile from the bag and takes turns 
answering a question from the category they have drawn. If all the teams 
answer correctly, another play-off is held. This continues until only one 
team in the round has answered correctly.
This team is the BEZZERWIZZER winner!
The game has two different tactical tiles that you can use to hold back your 
opponents or to score extra points for yourself.
BEZZERWIZZER: If you think another team won’t be able to answer 
their question (and your team will), you can try to score points with 
a BEZZERWIZZER. Only play a BEZZERWIZZER tile when one of the 
other teams is taking its turn.
ZWAP: You can play a ZWAP tile during your turn to swap two 
category tiles on the board.

You can read more about the BEZZERWIZZER and ZWAP tiles on the back.
If a team plays a tactical tile, this tile remains out of play until the beginning 
of the next round, at which time all tactical tiles are returned to their 
respective teams. Teams do not have to use their tactical tiles in a given 
round if they don’t want to.
PLAYING PIECES
START AND FINISH
HOME STRETCH
CATEGORY TILES
BEZZERWIZZER
ZWAP
The players form 2, 3 or 4 teams. A team can have one or more players.
Choose a team color and a matching playing piece.
Pick two BEZZERWIZZER tiles and one ZWAP tile in your team color.
Put the category tiles in the bag and place the playing pieces over the 
starting space of the scoring track on the edge of the box.
GAME GUIDE
CONTENTS:
1 GAME BOARD
20 CATEGORY TILES
8 BEZZERWIZZER TILES
4 ZWAP TILES
4 PLAYING PIECES
1 CARD HOLDER
147 QUESTION CARDS
1 BAG FOR THE TILES
1 GAME GUIDE
The game of trivia, 
tactics and trickery
SCAN THE QR CODE 
FOR VIDEO RULES!
START PLAYING
BEFORE PLAY BEGINS
TACTICS
WINNING THE GAME

BEZZERWIZZER
You can play a BEZZERWIZZER tile to attempt another team’s question! Be 
the first opponent to call out ‘BEZZERWIZZER’ and put a BEZZERWIZZER tile 
on the board, either before or after a question is read out.
The team in play (the defending team) answers the question first. The 
BEZZERWIZZER team gives its answer straight afterwards.
If the defending team gives the right answer, no points are awarded to the 
BEZZERWIZZER team. But if the defending team passes on a question or 
gives the wrong answer, the BEZZERWIZZER team is awarded points in a 
number of different ways:
3 points for a correct answer if the tile is played BEFORE the question was 
read out.
1 point for a correct answer if the tile is played AFTER the question was read 
out.
1 penalty point is given if the BEZZERWIZZER team answers incorrectly.
A team on the starting space can never move back a space.
In order to win 3 points, the opponent reading the question must play a 
BEZZERWIZZER tile BEFORE announcing the question.
The home stretch: If the defending team’s playing piece is on a space in 
the home stretch (indicated by the white arrows), the BEZZERWIZZER team 
can choose to use its points to move that team’s playing piece back 1 or 3 
spaces, instead of advancing itself.
ZWAP
You can play a ZWAP tile to swap an unwanted category tile with a 
preferable one from another team. You may also use a ZWAP tile to make 
things difficult for your opponents.
A team can only use a ZWAP during its own turn (and before the opponent 
starts reading out the question.)
Place a ZWAP on the board and swap two category tiles. You can swap 
another team’s category tiles as well as your own. You cannot swap closed 
category tiles.
If the team in play swaps a category tile – and another team has already 
played a BEZZERWIZZER on that category – the BEZZERWIZZER team 
can take back their BEZZERWIZZER tile. Another team can now play a 
BEZZERWIZZER on the new category tile.
Zwap med modstander
Zwap i eget hus
Zwap mellem modstandere
DESIGN
Fashion, interiors, designers and logos
BUSINESS
Companies, business people and products
FILM
Actors, directors, film titles, roles and quotes
GEOGRAPHY
Countries, cities, oceans, rivers and mountains
HISTORY
Historical figures, places and events
ARTS & THEATER
Classical music, theater and paintings
LITERATURE
Authors, book titles and literary characters
FOOD & DRINK
Gastronomy, chefs, restaurants and cookbooks
HUMANS
Anatomy, physiology and medicine
MUSIC
Artists, albums, songs and lyrics
NATURE
Animals, plants, geology and the environment
SCIENCE
Physics, chemistry, astronomy and climate
POLITICS
Politicians, parties and forms of government
SOCIETY
Organizations, legislation and media
SERIES
Titles, episodes, quotes, actors and roles
SPORTS
Athletes, sports disciplines and records
LANGUAGE
Foreign languages, grammar and sayings
TECH & GAMING
Technology, IT, inventions and gaming
TRADITION & BELIEFS
Religion, mythology, customs and legends
TV & RADIO
TV programs, podcasts and radio programs
CATEGORIES
Read more about the game and our eco 
conscious choices on bezzerwizzer.com