Bitin Off Hedz
25th Anniversary Edition
Playtest Version 1.4, 2/26/23
Prehistory: Hot, Majestic, Dull. You’ve got a brain the size of a walnut, but you’re still pretty
sure it’s been 25 million years since anything interesting has happened. So you and your pals
have decided to race each other to extinction, in a no-holds-barred chase across Skull Island.
Players: 2 to 8
Playing Time: 20-30 Minutes
You Need: A pawn for every player, 40-ish rocks, and two 6-sided dice.
Send us your thoughts! This is an open beta version of Bitin’ Off Hedz. Please print and enjoy
the game, and send us your feedback at Crab Fragment Labs.
Setup: Players choose a pawn to represent their dinosaur. If there are 2 or 3 players, each
player chooses two pawns, as described below.
Put a supply of rocks in the lagoon, or where everyone can reach them. Place your pawns in the
space labeled “Start.” The oldest player goes first, and play proceeds to the left.
Game Play: You are racing into the Volcano, space 100. Normally, you will
roll two dice to move. Many things can change this, as described below. The
winner is the first player to jump into the Volcano.
Note that in all cases, you must move at least one space forward before you
interact with anything on the board (rocks, other players, and so on).
Rock Spaces: When you land on a rock space, take one rock from the
supply. This includes the Start space, so everyone starts with one Rock.
Rocks on the Path: Sometimes, extra rocks will be sitting on the path,
where other players dropped them. You may scoop up these rocks as you
pass by; you do not have to land on them exactly.

All About Rocks: Rocks are basically your energy. You will collect and spend them throughout
the race, and you can use them for three valuable things: to re-roll dice; to throw at other
players; and, if you’re in last place, to take an extra turn. Here are the details:
Re-Rolling: After you roll, but before you move, you may spend rocks to re-roll dice.
Spend as many as you wish, one at a time, re-rolling one die with each. Leave the rocks
you spend this way on the trail where you started your turn.
Throwing Rocks: The dotted lines are lines of sight, which let you see other players and
throw rocks at them. If you can see another player, you may throw a rock to try to knock
them off the trail. If you succeed, you two will switch places on the track.
To throw a rock at another player, start by handing them a rock. Then, each player rolls a
die, and the higher roll wins. If the rolls are the same, the winner is the player on the high
ground (the space with the higher number).
If the attacker wins, the turn is over, and the two dinos switch places. If the attacker
loses, they may immediately try again until they succeed, give up, or run out of rocks.
Stopping to Throw: You may stop to throw a rock in the middle of your move, if you
stop where you can see another player, as long as you have taken at least one step first.
This ends your move; you can’t keep moving after the throw, even if you miss.
Extra Turns: If you are alone in last place at the end of your turn, you may spend one
rock to take another turn. That rock stays on the trail. You may do this only once after
each normal turn. Note: “last place” means you are on the highest numbered space. If
your space does not have a number for any reason, you can find it by counting
backwards from the next numbered space.
Rock Limit: You can only carry six rocks at a time. If you have more than six rocks at
the beginning of your turn, you must return the extra rocks to the supply.
Mudd Pitts: If you start in a Mudd Pitt, then you roll only one die, not two.
Notes: The Start space is a Mudd Pitt, and so are the last three spaces
before the Finish. These last ones are actually helpful, because you have to
hit the Finish with an exact roll, and that will be easier with just one die.
BOO!: When you land on a “BOO!” space, you are frightened by another
bigger dinosaur. Roll again.
THINK!: On a Think space, you have a choice of two routes. Choose wisely.

Learn to Fly!: The transparent spaces after “Learn to Fly” will not support
you. If you stop on one of these spaces, you will fall into the ocean, lose all
your rocks, and go back to the Start.
Note that in the endgame, it is sometimes smart to fall into the water on
purpose, so that you can go back and harass the players near the Finish.
Lava: Lava spaces are similar to Mudd Pitts. You roll only one die when
you start in Lava. However, when you land in Lava, you must spend one
rock to survive. If you do not, you go back to Start and lose all your rocks.
Rocks spent on Lava spaces return to the supply.Aside from the required
rock, you cannot spend rocks for any reason on a Lava space, either to
re-roll, to throw, or to take an extra turn.
The Shortcut: If you start on a Lava space, you can move directly into the Volcano (and win the
game) with an exact roll, treating the volcano as space 77. If you overshoot the shortcut, you
cannot re-roll, so you must continue along the usual path.
Pushing Other Players: If you would move past another player, you may push them instead. If
you push someone, you steal one of their rocks, and they must finish your move. Pushing may
sound strange, but sometimes you’d prefer to put someone in a bad position, rather than
landing there yourself. And it’s always dangerous to be the player in first place.
When you push someone, you stop where they were standing, and they carry out the rest of
your move. They make all decisions, like which way to move at a Think space, who else to
push, and so on. If you push someone onto a Boo! space, they even get to roll again.
Bitin’ Off Hedz: If you finish your move exactly on another player, you can bite off their head,
This means you steal all their rocks and send them back to Start. If you prefer, you may spare
them and peacefully coexist.
Exceptions: Hed-biting is not permitted anywhere on Safety Beach, spaces 0 through 10.
Note that you cannot bite off someone’s head if you stopped in the middle of your move, for
example to push another dinosaur, or to throw a rock at someone else, and also just happen to
be on the same space as a target. Head-biting requires nothing short of a perfectly aimed roll.
Finish: To win, you must hit the Finish space exactly. If your roll would overshoot the Finish, you
do not move at all, but you can still spend rocks to re-roll. You can also reach the Finish directly
from the Lava, as described above, if you can do it with an exact roll. You can help yourself by
bringing a lot of Rocks with you, to give yourself plenty of chances of hitting the Finish.

Rules for 2 or 3 Players:
With 2 or 3 players, we suggest playing with two dinosaurs apiece. Each pawn is like a separate
player, with their own turns, their own rocks, and so on. Arrange a set of matching pawns on the
table, to keep track of the turn order, and which dino owns which rocks. As the turn goes to the
left around the table, each player will simply move two dinos in a row.
Your dinosaurs are allies, which means that they can’t push each other, can’t bite off each
other’s heads, and can’t throw rocks at each other. The winner is the first to get just one of their
dinosaurs to the Finish.
Alternative Dinosaur Types:
Here are some early rules for different dinosaur types. Most of these abilities are better than a
normal dinosaur, but clearly some are better than others. If you want complete fairness, then
everyone can play as the same type.
Tyrannosaurus Rex: You may ignore one of your dice. For example, if you roll a 2 and a 6, you
may move 2, 6, or 8 spaces. However, your rock limit is just 4 rocks.
Stegosaurus: You cannot be pushed.
Dimetrodon: If you wish, you may re-roll both dice by spending only one rock, and you have +1
on your defense rolls, when you are the target of a throw.
Triceratops: When you push someone, you may steal up to three of their rocks.
Ankylosaurus: You have +2 on your defense rolls, when you are the target of a throw.
Velociraptor: Except when in Lava or Mudd, you may spend a rock to roll a third die.
Brachiosaurus: You may treat Mudd Pitts as ordinary spaces. Declare this intention before you
roll. However, your rock limit is 5 rocks.
Fliers: You may treat air spaces and Mudd Pitts as ordinary spaces; you must declare before
you roll. However, you can’t push.
Parasaurolophus: If you get your head bit off, you go back to the closest “Think” space instead
of the Start.
Cavemen: You may throw ALL of your rocks for a guaranteed hit. However, this can only be
done on your first attempt of the turn. Also you stab-with-spear instead of bitin’ off hedz, but it’s
basically the same thing.

Mammoths: You may treat Mudd Pitts as ordinary spaces; decide before you roll. However, you
cannot throw rocks.
Mice: You roll three dice for movement, except in Mudd Pitts and Lava, where you still roll just
one. However, your rock limit is just 2 rocks.
FAQ and Credits
Timing Question: Suppose I have no rocks. I want to stop and throw a rock at another player,
and the space where I will stop has a rock on it. Can I stop there, knowing that I’m about to get
that rock, then pick it up and throw it?
Answer: Yes. You’re very clever.
Timing Question: If I push someone, can they stop immediately in the same space where I
stopped? For example, to throw a rock?
Answer: No, they must move forward by at least one space, before they can interact with
anything. However, YOU may throw a rock from the space where you stopped, after the other
player has finished your move.
Space Question: Do the path spaces without numbers secretly have numbers?
Answer: Yes. If you’re trying to determine who is in last place, or using positions for scoring, the
unnumbered spaces have values counting backwards from the next numbered space.
Space Question: If I am hit by a thrown rock, and I switch places with someone who was
standing on a rock space, do I get to pick up a rock from the board?
Answer: Sure, why not?
Resource Question: What should I do if the supply runs out of rocks?
Answer: Get more rocks. There are always more rocks.
Game Design: James Ernest with help from Toivo Rovainen, Jeff Vogel, and the prehistoric
remnants of Cheapass Guinea Pigs. Original dino abilities suggested by Ken Young.
New Edition Playtesters: Jessica Blair, Richard Bliss, Jonny Pac Canton, Stephen Capper,
Rick Collins, Michael Dunsmore, Chris Ekstrom, Jacqueline Epner, Marcus Evenstar, Rick Fish,
Debbie Guskin, Nora Miller, Carol Monahan, Jeff Morrow, Ellie Olshan, Sammy Salkind, Leo
Saunders, Rennie Saunders, Lauren Tozer-Kilts, Shel Tozer-Kilts, Greg Whitehead, Jeff Wilcox