1 INTRODUCTION
Blackbeard is a game for 1–5 players that allows you to recreate the 
Golden Age of Piracy in the 17th-18th centuries. Players maneuver 
their Pirates around the map, from sea area to sea area and into and 
out of ports, collecting booty and gaining notoriety in a variety of 
ways. Players win by having their Pirates become the richest and most 
notorious of them all, ideally retiring them after long and successful 
careers at sea.
Design Note: Blackbeard is more of a simulation than most Pirate 
games. However, it is not a detailed, complex simulation like many other 
games in the hobby. On the other hand, things that happen in Pirate 
movies and other fictional approaches that rarely—if ever—happened in 
reality are not included in this game. It is difficult, for example, to find 
an actual instance of one Pirate attacking another at sea, something 
that happens in Pirate movies all the time. 
Note to Players of the original Blackbeard: This new game uses many 
of the details found in the original Blackbeard (The Avalon Hill Game 
Company, 1989), but the systems and mechanics for playing those ideas 
are quite different. Do not assume that any rules from the original ver-
sion are in this game.
Rules Note: The vertical line found in the borders at various locations 
indicates passages that have been modified in these Living Rules.
2 COMPONENTS
Blackbeard contains the following items:
1 34”x22” game board.
110 cards, in 2 decks
2 sheets of counters, of various sizes and shapes
10 Pirate Displays 
2 folded Charts and Tables Cards
1 Rule Book
3 six-sided dice, two black and one white
2.1 THE PLAYING CARDS
The playing cards for Blackbeard are used in the following two 
Decks:
Pirate Cards: These are the 23 most infamous Pirates of the era. 
Event Cards. These 87 cards represent a variety of possible happen-
ings that may affect what is going on. They also may allow the player 
to undertake whatever plans he has as a Pirate. Finally, they provide 
the game with its timing mechanism.
2.2 THE MAP
Regions: The game map is divided into three major Regions—the 
Americas, West Africa, and East Africa/India. Each Region has its own 
separate map section, connected only (in some cases) by Transit Boxes. 
Regions have very little effect on play; most of the game is conducted 
in the Sea Areas.
Sea Areas: Each Region is sub-divided into Sea Areas (often just called 
“Areas” in these rules). There are ten (10) Sea Areas in all. 
Transit Boxes: These boxes, located between the Regions, allow travel 
to and from the different Regions. See 7.2. 
Land: The land areas on the map have no effect on the game.
Victory Points Track: Used with the double-sided Victory Point mark-
ers to show who is currently winning the game (see 18.0).
Card Holding Boxes: Used to place the respective Card decks.
Retired Pirates and Davy Jones’ Locker Boxes: The first is used to 
place the counters of Pirates who Retire, the second for the counters 
of Pirates who are Eliminated.
Ports: Sea Areas adjoin Ports that the Pirates may use for a variety of 
reasons. A Coat of Arms in the Port Box indicates which nation con-
trols the Port—or whether or not the Port is a Pirate Port. Ports bear 
the following information:
Nationality
: The Nations to which ports belong are indicated both 
by the Coat of Arms and by color, as outlined on the Port Key on 
the map. 
Port Box
: Each Port location contains the name of the Port, the Coat 
of Arms and color of its nationality, and its numeric values. This box 
holds governors, Pirates, and other information markers as needed. 
Placing pieces and markers on the Port location indicates that they 
are “In-Port”.
Merchant Box
: Beside all Ports except Pirate Ports is a box bearing 
a ship icon. This is the Merchant box. It holds the Merchant Ship for 
that port (when required).
At-Sea Box
: Beside all Ports is a small empty box. This is the At-Sea 
box. It holds anything that does not fit in the Port box.
Port Locator number
: All Port boxes display a two-digit number 
in a small white box. This is the Port Locator number for that Port. 
Random selection of Ports is performed for various purposes in the 
game, and requires a D66 roll, as defined in 2.5.
Port Ratings
: All Port boxes (except Pirate Ports) have a pair of 
numbers separated by a dash. The number on the left is the Port’s 
Value rating; the number on the right is the Port’s Defense rating.
Entering and Leaving Ports: Pirates enter a Port from its adjoining 
Sea Area, and exit a Port into its adjoining Sea Area. Bermuda, alone 
of all Ports, adjoins both two Sea Areas: the North Atlantic and the 
Central Atlantic.
Living Rules Note: On the first printing of the map, the following 
borders are less obvious than they should be: 
North Atlantic borders: Central Atlantic and Bermuda. 
Central Atlantic borders: North Atlantic, South Atlantic, and Ber-
muda. 
South Atlantic borders: Central Atlantic and West Caribbean. 
West Caribbean borders: South Atlantic, East Caribbean, Central 
America, South America. 
East Caribbean borders: West Caribbean, South America.
Sea Area 
Separator
Pirate
Locator #
Land
Area
Merchant	
Coat 
of Arms
Nationality 
Color
Ratings
At-Sea 
Sea Area
Label

2.3 PLAYER AIDS
The following large cards are provided to help players keep track of what 
they have, as well as determine the results of certain undertakings;
Actions Summary Card: This card is a handy summary of Actions 
and procedures used during the game.
Charts and Tables Play Aid Card: This card contain charts, tables 
and procedure lists used during play. 
Pirate Displays: These large cards provide tracks for markers that let 
you keep track of all the pertinent information about each Pirate and 
his ship. The placement of each type of marker is outlined throughout 
the rules (including 3.0, Preparing for Play). 
Port Grids: These Grids—for 2-player, 3-player, and 4- or 5-player 
games respectively), found in the back pages of the Rule Book, are 
used to keep track (with pen or pencil) of a Pirate’s Safe Havens and 
Hostage Information points. Players should feel free to photocopy these 
pages for use during the game. You can also simply keep track of this 
information on a spare piece of paper if you prefer.
2.4 PLAYING PIECES
Blackbeard uses a variety of playing pieces—counters and markers—to 
keep track of details. Pirates, Governors, King’s Commissioners, Mer-
chant Ships, and Warships are represented on the map by the various 
counters. Information markers are placed on the map and the Pirate 
Displays to assist in game-play.
Living Rules Note: While the components as initially printed accu-
rately reflect the design intentions of the game, the designer/developer 
team recognize that some players feel that Warships and King’s Com-
missioners are too weak. As a result, we recommend—as a standard 
rule—modifying all Combat die-rolls for Warships and KCs by +2. 
This has the effect of higher Combat values for those units, but the 
printed values remain.
Attack History markers (9.58) are placed in the Attack History box 
on the Pirate Display when that Pirate attacks a Port. Use an Attack 
History marker corresponding to that Port’s Nationality.
D&R markers (13.0) are placed atop a Pirate counter to indicate that 
his crew is undergoing Debauchery & Revelry.
Governor Bribed markers (9.45 and 18.41D) are placed in the “Gov-
ernors Bribed” box on the Pirate Display to indicate which Pro-Pirate 
governors that Pirate has attempted to bribe (whether successfully or 
not). A Pirate may attempt to bribe each governor only once. Anti-Pirate 
governors may not be bribed, so there are no markers for them.
Letter of Marque markers (17.2) come into play when the Letter of 
Marque Event Card is played as an Event.
Nationality markers (8.44, 9.42, 17.2) are placed as follows:
On the Pirate Display in the “Hostages” box to indicate the nationality 
of the Port to which that Hostage was headed when captured
In the “Letter of Marque” box on the Pirate Display to indicate the 
nation for which the Pirate has acquired a Letter of Marque. 
Number markers help Players keep track of a range of details on the 
Pirate Displays and on the map: 
The Pirate’s Notoriety Points, Cunning Points, and Net Worth 
The Doubloons in each Hold of the Pirate’s ship
The Information Points gained from each Hostage
The number of the Action currently underway in the Player-Turn
Pirate ID markers (3.0 Step 7, 5.13) are placed beside the Pirate card 
on the Pirate Display whenever a Player deploys a new Pirate (includ-
ing at the start of the game). These ID numbers are used in conjunction 
with the Port Grid in order to keep track of a Pirate’s Safe Havens and 
Hostage Information Points. 
Port Attacked markers (9.58) are placed on the map when a Pirate 
attacks a Port.
Port Destroyed markers (9.51, 9.55, 10.4, 17.2) are placed on Ports 
that have been destroyed (from attacks, storms, etc.).
Safe Haven markers (9.42, 9.45), are placed on Port spaces the 
map to indicate that at least one Pirate has a Safe Haven at that Port. 
Exactly which Pirate has the Safe Haven is recorded on the Port Grid 
(see 2.3).
Scurvy markers (9.41, 17.2) are placed atop a Pirate counter when 
that Pirate’s crew contracts Scurvy.
Ship Type markers (5.13, 6.21) are placed on the Pirate Displays to 
indicate which type of ship (Sloop, Schooner, or Brigantine) the Pirate 
is currently using.
Ship Ratings markers (5.13, 6.2) come in three types: Combat, Speed, 
and Loyalty. They are placed on each Pirate Display in the appropriate 
boxes and moved whenever that rating increases or decreases. Speed 
and Combat markers work in conjunction with the “Ship Type” markers 
to show the current Speed and Combat ratings of that Ship.
Victory Point markers (18.11) allow Players to track their Victory 
Points on the Victory Point track on the map. 
Examples of Markers
Attack History
Crew Loyalty
Safe Haven
Governor Bribed
Ship Speed
Ship Combat
Scurvy
Ship Type 
Designator
Debauchery 
& Revelry
Victory Points
+100—Player A
Number 
Marker
Examples of Counters
Pirate (Blackbeard)
Pirate (Vane)
King’s Commissioner
Hostage
Speed Combat
Hostage
Info Value
Pro-Pirate
Anti-Pirate
Governors
Cargo Rating
Merchant Ship
Speed Combat
Warship
Hostages

2.5 DICE
The game uses six-sided dice. The following abbreviations differenti-
ate the various rolls: 
 is the roll of one black die (for a possible result of 1–6). This 
procedure is also more simply called, in these rules, “roll one die”. 
The term “dieroll” always refers to a 1d6 roll.
2d6 
is the roll of two black dice, adding them together (for a possible 
result of 2–12)
3d6
 is the roll of all three dice, adding them together (for a possible 
result of 3–18)
D66 
is the roll of one black die and one white die, with the black die 
the ten’s digit and the white die the one’s digit, for a possible result 
of 11–66 (example: 5 black and 2 white yields a result of 52).
2.6 USEFUL TERMINOLOGY
The terms and abbreviations you’ll see throughout the rules have the 
following meanings in the game:
Active Pirate: The Pirate who has currently announced a Pirate Action 
or is currently conducting a Pirate Action.
Anti-Pirate Player: All Players not currently undertaking a Player-
Turn. The other player is called the Pirate Player. 
AP: Anti-Pirate—usually in the context of AP Action.
At Sea: In a Sea Area, as opposed to being In-Port.
Booty: This is what the Pirates are after and, as this is a family game, 
it refers to seized merchant cargo as well as doubloons gained from 
other activities, including ransoming Hostage, sacking ports, and 
more. Booty can be turned into Net Worth, a game term used to help 
determine Victory. 
D&R: Debauchery and Revelry, a condition in which Pirates are cel-
ebrating their successes.
In Hand: Cards a player holds, un-revealed, and has not yet played. 
In-Port: Refers to Pirates, Actions, and situation that occur while a 
Pirate is in a Port space, as opposed to being At Sea.
KC: King’s Commissioner.
Net Worth: The monetary value of the Pirate resulting from “cashing 
in” booty.
NP: Abbreviation for Notoriety Points, a numerical rendering of reputa-
tion earned for dastardly deeds.
Pirate Player: The Player currently undertaking a Player-Turn (4.3). 
The other players are called Anti-Pirate Players.
Player Order: Who goes when, as determined during the Preparing 
for Play procedure. 
Player-Turn: The portion of play during which a specific Player acts 
as the Pirate Player.
2.7 NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Blackbeard can be played by anywhere from 1 to 5 players. 
2–5 Players: The game plays best with from 3–5 players, but 2-player 
games proved popular in playtesting, so it definitely does work as a 
2-player game. 
1 Player: See 19.0 for rules on Solitaire Play (which includes some 
deviation from the standard rules).
More than 5 Players (suggestion): If you have from 6–10 players, you 
can play the game by restricting each player to having only one Pirate 
at a time. Each player draws only one Pirate card to start the game—see 
3.0—and draws another Pirate card only if that Pirate leaves the game 
(by retiring or by being eliminated). Any player not wanting to use the 
Pirate he/she has drawn can draw a different one instead, giving each 
other player 10 VP and placing the originally drawn Pirate card back 
in the Pirate deck. 
2.8 QUESTIONS?
Send a self addressed stamped envelope to:
GMT Games
ATTN: Blackbeard Q’s
PO Box 1308
Hanford CA 93232
www.GMTgames.com
You can also reach us at www.Consimworld.com and www.board-
gamegeek.com.
3 PREPARING FOR PLAY
Step 1: Lay out the Components
Unfold the map and lay it on the table. Separate the counters and 
markers into stacks by type. Give each player the following number of 
Pirate Displays, arranging the displays in a convenient location so that 
all players can see them at all times (the number of Pirate Displays a 
player has equals the maximum number of Pirate counters that player 
may have on the board at any given time during the game):
: 2 Pirate Displays to each Player. 
: 3 Pirate Displays to each Player.
: 4 Pirate Displays to each Player.
Step 2: Determine Player Order 
Each player rolls a die. The player with the highest result becomes 
Player A, with the player to his left becoming Player B and so on, 
clockwise around the table. Player A then does a Player-Turn, followed 
by Player B, then Player C, Player D, and Player E, coming back to 
Player A once the last player has done a turn. This sequence of players 
is known as Player Order. 
Step 3: Prepare the Cards 
Separate the cards into their two decks, Pirates and Events. Shuffle 
the Pirates and set them aside in their box on the game board. Remove 
from the Event deck all the cards that say “Must Play Immediately” 
(see 17.15) and place these aside until Step 4. 
Step 4: Deal the Event Cards 
Shuffle the Event cards and deal face down 4 Event Cards to each 
player, in Player Order. Next, place all the “Must Play Immediately” 
cards you removed in Step 3 back into the Event deck and reshuffle it. 
Finally, place the Event deck face down in the Events Cards box on 
the game board.
Step 5. Place the Governors 
Set the 16 Anti-Pirate Governors aside in their holding box (for later 
use). For each of the 8 Pro-Pirate Governors, roll D66 and consult 
the Port Locator number corresponding to that result, to see at which 
Port that Governor counter is placed. Place the Governor counter in 
the Port Box for that port. Do not put Governors in Pirate Ports, and 
only one governor per port; if you roll a Port number in which you’ve 
already placed a Governor, or the number of a Pirate Port, place him 
in the next available Port with a higher number (starting back at 11 if 
you get all the way to 66). 
Historical Note: All of the Governors depicted in the game are, essen-
tially, English … mainly because they were the only names we could 
find. Some will end up in non-English Ports. A lack of historicity, to 
be sure, but it IS a game, and the effect is the same. 

Step 6. Select the Pirates 
Shuffle the Pirate Deck and randomly deal the following number of 
Pirate Cards to each Player, in Player Order:
: 2 Pirate Cards per Player. 
: 3 Pirate Cards per Player.
: 4 Pirate Cards per Player.
Note: In-hand Pirate Cards never count towards the maximum number 
of Event cards allowed.
Optional Rule: If all players agree, the following rule applies. Players 
choose their Pirates, specifically and knowingly, instead of drawing 
them randomly. Each player chooses a number of Pirate Cards cor-
responding to the number of players in the game (as indicated above). 
Each player rolls a die to see who gets to start choosing Pirates first 
(this is over and above the Player Order dieroll in Step 1). After that, 
selection goes around the table, clockwise—or in alphabetical order of 
player names in online games—one Pirate at a time, in Reverse Draft 
format. (That means, for example, in a 4-player game, choices will be 
made in the following Player # order: 1-2-3-4-4-3-2-1; in a 3-player 
game it would be 1-2-3-3-2-1-1-2-3.).
Play Note: The optional rule is recommended for those who know the 
game, specifically how the Pirate ratings function. .
Step 7: Deploy the Pirates 
In Player Order, each Player must now deploy one Pirate, placing the 
cardboard counter for that Pirate in the Sea Area of the Player’s choice 
(it is entirely permissible for more than one Pirate to begin the game in 
the same Sea Area). After all Players have done so, each may deploy 
a second Pirate in the same manner (in a three-player or two-player 
game, this continues until each Player has deployed the desired number 
of Pirates up to the limit—see 5.16). Then, simultaneously, all Players 
do the following: Each Player uses one Pirate Display for each Pirate, 
placing the Pirate Card in the appropriate box on that display face up so 
that the Pirate’s values are visible to all, and placing a Pirate ID marker 
for that Pirate beside the Pirate Card. Each Player assigns each of his 
Pirates a Ship—either a Sloop or a Schooner, his choice, placing on the 
Pirate Display the appropriate markers for Ship Type and the starting 
Combat and Speed ratings for that ship type (see 6.28). He also places 
the Loyalty Level marker at 7. 
Play Note: For greater secrecy, players may instead agree to record the 
locations of their initial Pirates) and reveal them simultaneously after 
all have made their choices. If players want a more random setup, they 
can roll D66 for each Pirate and place him in the Sea Area adjoining 
the resulting Port Locator number.
Step 8. Place the Merchant Ships 
Place all 35 Merchant ship counters in an opaque cup (or face-down 
on the map or table). This is the Merchant Pool. Randomly draw from 
the Merchant Pool eight (8) Merchant ship counters (it doesn’t matter 
which player does this). As each one is drawn, roll D66 and consult the 
Port Locator number corresponding to that result, to see at which Port 
that Merchant counter is placed. The counters are placed face-down, so 
as to hide the type of ship, in the Merchant Box just outside the Port. 
Do not put Merchants in Pirate ports, and place a maximum of one 
Merchant per port. If the Port rolled is one of the three Pirate Ports, 
or a Port with a Merchant ship already in its Merchant Box, place the 
Merchant in the Merchant Box of the next highest numbered available 
Port (start back at 11 if you reach 66).
Example: A D66 roll of 15 places that Merchant in the Merchant Box 
for Bath, which is in the Central Atlantic Sea Area. If the next D66 roll 
is also 15, place the Merchant in the Merchant Box for Charleston, in 
the South Atlantic Coast area.
Step 9. Place the Other Markers 
Place the Victory Point markers for all Players in the “0” box on the 
Victory Point track on the map, with the +100 side face-down. Place 
the 8 named King’s Commissioner counters in an opaque cup (or face-
down on the map or table)—keep the “Ex-Pirate” KC counter aside 
for possible later use. Do the same, in their own “pools”, for the 15 
Hostage counters, the 16 Anti-Pirate Governor counters, and the 15 
Warship counters. These will be drawn blindly and randomly from the 
pools at various times during play. 
Step 10. Determine the Game Length 
See rule 4.1 to choose between a Standard Game or a Long Game.
Step 11. Conduct Player-Turns (i.e., Start Playing)
Each player now completes a Player-Turn (4.3), in the order determined 
in Step 2. Repeat Step 11 until the Game Length (4.1) is reached. At 
that point, determine the Winner (18.0).
4 COURSE OF PLAY
4.1 GAME LENGTH
Standard Game: The instant the General Pardon card has been 
played for the third time (see 17.2), the game is over. This game will 
take between 2–3 hours to play.
Long Game: If players want a longer game, they may agree to play 
through the Event Deck twice instead of just once. In such a case, hold 
the General Pardon card out of the Event Deck until the deck is re-
shuffled after the first run-through, shuffling the General Pardon card 
into that deck at that time. This game will take 4–5 hours to play.
4.2 OBJECTIVES AND FLOW OF PLAY
The object of the game is to win by accumulating the most Victory 
Points. Players earn VP from the Notoriety earned and the Booty 
gathered and cashed in by their Pirates. Pirates get Booty by seizing 
the cargo (including hostages) of Merchant Ships or successfully attack-
ing a Port. Pirates—and, occasionally, a King’s Commissioner—gain 
Notoriety, in the form of Notoriety Points, for the ways in which they 
accomplish these objectives (18.0).
During each Player’s turn (called the Player-Turn), that Player (called 
the Pirate Player) undertakes Pirate Actions or initiates Events. During 
that same Player’s Turn, the other players (each called an Anti-Pirate 
Player) have opportunities to stop or hinder the Pirate Player’s Pirates 
by using Anti-Pirate (AP) Actions. 
4.3 THE PLAYER-TURN
The game is played in successive Player-Turns, with play going around 
the table in Player Order until the game ends (4.1). A Player-Turn con-
sists of four phases: the Event Card Draw Phase, the Merchant Ship 
Phase, the Event Card Play Phase, and the Actions Phase, as explained 
here. After the Pirate Player has completed all Phases, the next person 
in Player Order becomes the Pirate Player (it is his Player-Turn) and 
so on until the game has ended.
Design Note: Unlike most wargames, Blackbeard does not have a 
Game-Turn, only Player-Turns. 
4.4 PHASES OF THE PLAYER-TURN
A. Card Draw Phase
The Pirate Player must draw Event cards, one at a time, until he has 
four (4) Event cards in his hand. If the card says “Hold Until Played”, 
the player must keep it (for now) as one of the four cards allowed. If 
a drawn card states “Must Play Immediately”, he places it face-up on 
the table and resolves it at once, after which he places it face-up on the 
Discard pile. He then immediately draws another. This process continues 
until he has four Event cards In Hand (Pirate cards do not count). 

B. Merchant Ship Phase 
If there are fewer than five (5) Merchant Ships on the map, the Pirate 
Player immediately increases the number to six (6) as per 6.31.
C. Card Play Phase
The Pirate Player plays as many cards as he wishes from his hand, in 
any order he wishes, but only ONE may be played for Actions (Excep-
tion: 4.55). 
Use ONE of the following three possibilities for EACH card:
	 Play the card for its Event (“Event OR Actions” cards only)
: 
The Pirate Player immediately resolves the Event described on the 
card*. See 17.2 for a full description of the Event. Anti-Pirate Ac-
tions may not be undertaken by the other players. Note: the only 
two Event cards to which option #1 applies are Letter of Marque 
and Skull and Crossbones.
	 Play the Card for Actions (“Event OR Actions” cards only)
: 
The Pirate Player conducts the number of Actions allowed by the 
card—or fewer if desired—and then places the card on the Discard 
pile. Anti-Pirate Actions may be undertaken by the other players 
during the Pirate Player’s Actions. The Pirate Player may use only 
one card per Player-Turn for Actions.
	 Play the Card both for its Event and for an Action (“Event AND 
Action” cards only): The Pirate Player immediately resolves the 
Event described on the card*, after which he must conduct one 
Action. See 17.12 for details. After completing the Event and the 
Action, he places the card in the Discard pile. Anti-Pirate Actions 
may be undertaken by the other players during the Pirate Player’s 
Action. This card does count as the only card he may play for Ac-
tions that Player Turn.
* If the card description contains an asterisk (*), consult 17.2 for the 
full and official description of the Event. 
D. Change Pirate Players
The next Player in the Player Order now conducts his Player Turn.
4.5 PIRATE ACTIONS 
When playing a card for Actions, the Pirate Player may perform the 
number of Actions allowed by the card (or fewer if he wishes), com-
pleting each Action in full before starting the next. The number of 
Actions allowed by the card is equal to the Actions number printed 
on the card—except for cards bearing a diamond-shaped icon in the 
Actions Circle, which allow a number of Actions equal to the active 
Pirate’s Initiative Rating.
Each Action allows the Pirate to perform ONE of the following Pirate 
Actions. Note, however, that some Actions, such as Loot Merchant 
Ship and In Port Activities, may have more than one actual activity 
to them):
	
A.	 Move (7.0): Move a Pirate from one map location to another. 
	
B.	 Find Merchant Ship (8.1): This does not include taking its cargo, 
etc., covered in the Loot Merchant Ship Action.
	
C.	 Loot Merchant Ship (8.2 & 8.3): This includes seizing both Cargo 
and Hostages. 
	
D.	 In-Port Activities (9.4): Includes Selling Booty, Ransoming Hos-
tages, Refitting Ships, and purchasing the right to use the port as a 
Safe Haven.
	
E.	 Booty Grab (9.6): This is a separate in Port Action, conducted by 
one Player’s Pirate against another Player’s Pirate.
	
F.	 D&R Recovery (16.0): This removes Debauchery & Revelry 
markers (13.0). D&R Recovery is a separate Action from In-Port 
Activities, although it takes place only In-Port.
	
G.	 Attack Port (9.5): May not be done while In-Port.
	
H.	 Sack Port (9.55): May be done only while In-Port.
	
I.	 Form Pirate Alliance (11.0): May occur only between one player’s 
two deployed Pirates.
	
J.	 Retire Voluntarily (18.4): May be done only while in a Pro-Pirate 
Port with a Letter of Marque for that port’s nationality, or at any 
time in a Pirate Port.
	
K.	 Draw New Pirate Card and/or Deploy New Pirate (5.1): Only 
within the limits prescribed in 5.16.
(4.51) If there is an Action Number on the Event Card, and that number 
is greater than one (1), the Player may divide the Actions among the 
Pirates he has in play. Example: A player has two Pirates in play and 
draws an Event card that allows 2 Actions. The Player may undertake 2 
Actions with one of his Pirates or 1 Action with each of his two Pirates 
… in any order he wishes. 
(4.52) Some cards, instead of having a specific number, say “Actions 
= Initiative”. In this case, the number of Actions the Player may un-
dertake is dependent on the Initiative Rating of the Pirate he wants to 
use; the Initiative Rating is shown on the Pirate’s card. He may assign 
the Actions to any ONE of his in-play Pirates for this purpose (i.e., he 
may not split the Actions as in 4.51). 
Example: A Player with Blackbeard (Edward Teach) who plays an 
Actions = Initiative card may undertake 3 Actions with Blackbeard 
(but only with Blackbeard).
(4.53) If a Pirate whose Initiative rating has been used to determine 
Actions is eliminated before that Player can use all those Actions, that 
player may use the remaining Actions for any other Pirate. 
Play Note: One use of a remaining Action in such a case would be to 
bring a new Pirate into the game.
(4.54) If a player has multiple Actions to work with, he may perform 
the same Actions twice or even three times consecutively. 
(4.55) If a player has no cards which he could play to determine how 
many Actions he may undertake (this is very, very rare), he may—and 
only in this circumstance—conduct one Action for each card he places 
on the Discard pile at this time, up to two (2) Actions for two (2) cards 
(see also 17.14). 
4.6 ANTI-PIRATE (AP) ACTIONS
(4.61) During each Player-Turn, EACH of the Anti-Pirate Players may 
undertake ONE of the Anti-Pirate Action types listed in 4.65, either 
by playing a card or simply by announcing the AP Action. Exception: 
10.23.
Play Note: It is important to remember that each AP Player gets to 
do one AP Action per Player-Turn, not per Action. So if a Pirate has 
three Actions, the AP Players must decide which of those three Actions 
to disrupt through an AP Action.
(4.62) No AP Action type (whether successful or not) may be played 
more than once against an active Pirate during any given Action. 
Example: During Holly’s Player-Turn, Arlo plays a Warship Sight-
ing card but without any effect. No other player may play a Warship 
Sighting card against Holly’s Pirate(s) during that same Action. They 
may, however, play other AP Action types, including Use On Station 
Warship, as long as those types also have not yet been played during 
that Action. 
Play Note: Keep in mind that the restriction in this case (unlike 4.61) 
is per Action, not per Player-Turn. 
(4.63) Anti-Pirate Actions are performed either while the Pirate Player 
is undertaking his Pirate Action, or immediately following such an 
Action, with some AP Action types (Warships, for example) having 
specific requirements for when they are played. If two players want to 
undertake an AP Action at the same time, precedence goes to the player 

Example of a Player Turn 
There are 4 players. It is Marco’s Turn; he is the Pirate Player. He 
has only 3 cards so he draws one more—it’s a “Hold Until Played” 
card, so he keeps it in his hand. He now plays an Event Card that 
allows two Actions (but not the Event). He decides to move Edward 
Low, one of his Pirates, from the Central Atlantic Sea Area into the 
South Atlantic Sea Area. Before he can do so, Holly, sitting directly 
to his left, plays, as her Anti-Pirate Action for that Player-Turn, a 
Scurvy card against Low. Marco places a Scurvy marker on Low’s 
Pirate Display and lowers the Crew Loyalty rating of Low’s ship 
by 1. No other Anti-Pirate Player plays an AP Action at this time, 
so Marco moves the Pirate counter for Low into the South Atlantic 
Sea Area. 
For his second Pirate Action, Marco now decides to see if he can 
Find the face-down Merchant Ship in the Merchant box at Charles-
ton. He rolls a die, adjusting it as per the rules, and gets a final 
result of ‘5’, which means he fails. That Action is finished. 
However, as Low is still active—Marco has finished his second Ac-
tion but play has not passed yet —Todd, directly to Marco’s right, 
announces he is going to conduct an Anti-Pirate Action, moving 
his King’s Commissioner, Chaloner Ogle, from the Eastern Carib-
bean Sea Area into the Western Caribbean Sea Area, positioning 
himself to attempt to conduct KC Reaction against Low when low 
next conducts an Actions to which KC Reaction applies. Marco’s 
player-turn is finished.
who announced it (or shouted it) first; if nobody can agree who did so, 
the Player Order determines who gets to play it. 
(4.64) AP Actions may be directed only against the currently activated 
Pirate. However, AP Actions may not be played against a Player who 
is drawing a new Pirate Card or deploying a new Pirate.
(4.65) The Anti-Pirate Action types are as follows:
	
A.	 Attempt to Deploy a King’s Commissioner (10.12): Does not use 
an Event Card. This Action is separate from “Use a King’s Com-
missioner”. 
	
B.	 Use On Station Warship (6.43): Does not use an Event Card. The 
AP Player 
Use Existing King’s Commissioner
C.	
 (10.2): Does not use an Event 
Card.
	
D.	 Play an AP Event Card Action (17.0) that would possibly affect 
the Pirate’s Play, but only if that “type” of AP Event Card Action 
has not yet been played during the current Player Turn. An AP Event 
Card Action “type” consitutes all the identical AP Event Cards in 
the deck—for example, Mutiny Conspiracy is an AP Event Card 
type, as is Scurvy Outbreak. In other words, each AP Player may 
play one of the AP Event Card Action types during a given Player 
-Turn, but no Event Card Action type may be played more than 
once during that Player-Turn (this is true even if the current Player 
activates more than one Pirate during a given Player-Turn).
Play Note: The vast majority of AP Actions arise from type D, playing 
AP Event Card types against the activated Pirate.
(4.66) KC Reaction—see 10.32—is not considered an Anti-Pirate 
Action type, even though it does indeed consist of Anti-Pirate Players 
interfering with Pirate Actions. As a result, KC Reaction does not count 
as the AP Action played for that AP Player.
(4.67) Event Cards played as Anti-Pirate Actions are placed in the 
Discard pile.
(4.68) Restriction against Working Together: Anti-Pirate Players 
may not negotiate with one another in any way about which AP Events 
to play in which order. In fact, they may not even show one another 
their AP cards. 
Play Note: AP Players are essentially enactors of events beyond the 
control of the Pirates; they don’t represent actual personages, except 
when controlling a King’s Commissioner—and King’s Commissioners 
in this game don’t negotiate with Pirates. 
5 PIRATES
There are 23 Pirate cards. Each one is a historical figure from piracy’s 
Golden Age. For each Pirate there is also a Pirate counter, with the name 
of his (usually historical) ship on it. These counters are moved on the 
map to represent the Pirate’s location. The Pirate counters in Blackbeard 
have no ratings; all Pirate ratings are on the respective cards.
A Pirate stays in the game unless and until he either Retires (18.4) or 
is Eliminated. In the first case, place his counter in the Retired Pirates 
box on the map; in the second, place it in the Davy Jones’ Locker box. 
Once either of these things occurs, his Pirate Card may not be used 
again; the counter for a Retired Pirate can return on the play of a Pirate 
Converts Event Card (see 17.2).
Design Note: We have not included any famous but fictional Pirates, 
such as Captain Blood or Jack Sparrow. Copyright and usage problems, 
you know. You, of course, are free to make up your own cards for these 
bogus buccaneers.
Historical Note: The two famous female Pirates of the era, Anne Bon-
ney and Mary Read, are part of the Jack Rackham card.
5.1 DEPLOYING PIRATES
(5.11) Pirates are deployed by the Players at the start of the game and, 
if desired, as the game proceeds.
(5.12) Before play starts each Player must deploy at least one of his 
Pirates; see 3.0, Step 7. He may not use any Pirate that has not been 
deployed (5.14).
(5.13) A Player may Deploy any Pirate he has In Hand, or one for 
whom he has just drawn a Pirate Card as one of his Actions for his 
Turn (5.16). When initially deployed, a Pirate is given a Ship, either 
a Sloop or a Schooner; the player takes a fresh Pirate Display and, on 
it, places an appropriate Ship Type marker and markers for Combat, 
Speed, and Loyalty (exactly as in 3.0 Step 7). 
(5.14) A Player may never have more Pirates in play (i.e., on the map) 
than the total number of Pirate cards with which he began the game 
(see 3.0 Step 6). Example: in a 5-player game, each Player may have a 
maximum of two Pirates in play; in a 3-player game, each player may 
have three. And see 5.16.
(5.15) When initially deployed, a Pirate is placed in any Sea Area on 
the map. 
(5.16) A Player, as a Pirate Action, may obtain a new Pirate by draw-
ing, randomly and blindly, a Pirate Card from that deck. He may either 
deploy that Pirate as part of that same Action, or hold the Pirate Card 
In Hand. If no Pirate cards remain unselected, no one may get a new 
Pirate. A Player may have no more than the following number of Pirate 
cards in hand and Pirates in play at any one time:
: 3 Pirate Cards in hand and 2 Pirates 
in play. 
: 3 Pirate Cards in hand and 3 Pirates in play.
: 4 Pirate Cards in hand and 4 Pirates in play.

5.2 PIRATE RATINGS
All Pirates have the following ratings; these ratings are on the Pirate 
Card, not on the Pirate’s counter:
Initiative
: How “active” a Pirate tended to be. This is used to deter-
mine the number of Actions when the Event Card bears a diamond-
shaped icon in the Actions Circle.
Ability
: The Pirate’s naval and combat skills: the higher the better.
Leadership
: The Pirate’s ability to control his crew—usually to quell 
a Mutiny—and stay the leader of that ship. The higher the better.
Cruelty
: The Pirates tendency to use dastardly, and harmful, deeds 
to gain information … or just for fun. See 8.45 and 9.55.
Cunning
: The Pirate’s ability to avoid Bad Things that sometime 
happen. You could also call this Luck. The rating is the number of 
times this Pirate may use Cunning. See 12.0. Cunning is also used 
to play a “Skull & Crossbones” Event Card; see 17.0.
Duel
: The Pirate’s personal combat skill, used to determine whether 
a ship takeover attempt by another Pirate succeeds or not (see Pirati-
cal Ambition Event card description in 17.0) or as a possible result 
of a Booty Grab (see 9.6).
6 SHIPS
6.1 TYPES OF SHIPS
(6.11) There are four categories of ships in the game:
Pirate’s Ships
: The Pirate counters represent where each Pirate and 
his Ship is located on the map, either At Sea or In Port. The Pirate’s 
ratings are on the corresponding Pirate Card; the Ship’s information 
is represented by the tracks on the Pirate Display. See 6.2.
Merchant Ships
: These counters have one rating, Cargo Capacity, 
plus an icon and a colored border distinguishing the Ship’s type 
(see 6.12).
Warships
: These counters have two ratings: Speed and Combat. 
See 6.4.
King’s Commissioners
: These counters have two ratings: Speed 
and Combat. The counter represents both the KC and his ships(s). 
See 10.0.
(6.12) There are five types of Merchant and Pirate vessels used in the 
game. See 6.23 for these Ships’ ratings.
Flutes (a.k.a Fluyts): Older, outdated merchant ships. 
Flutes have a Cargo Rating of zero, and a black border 
indicating that they may not be converted to Pirate 
Ships. 
Sloops: Single-masted and fast, with small holds—usable 
from the start of the game as Pirate Ships and, if found 
as Merchant Ships, they may be converted to Pirate ships. 
Sloops have a Cargo Rating of 1, and Sloop counters have 
a red border.
Schooners: Two or more masts, with larger holds than 
sloops, but slower—usable from start of game as Pirate 
Ships and, if found as Merchant Ships, may be con-
verted to Pirate ships. Schooners have a Cargo Rating of 
2, and Schooner counters have a blue border.
Brigantines: Two masts (one of them square-rigged), 
with large holds; when found, may be converted to Pirate 
ships. Brigantines have a Cargo Rating of 3, and Brigan-
tine counters have a green border.
3-Masted Square Riggers: Three masts, large holds, and 
natural targets for Pirates. Square Riggers have a Cargo 
Rating of 4, and a black border indicating that they may 
not be converted to Pirate Ships. 
(6.13) Warships come in three varieties, based on the number of guns. 
The more guns a ship has, the bigger the ship and the higher its Combat 
rating, and the slower it and its Speed is. See 6.4 for how their ratings 
function.
6.2 PIRATE SHIPS
(6.21) Each Pirate enters the game—deployed– with either a Sloop or a 
Schooner, the choice between the two being made by the Player. Each 
Pirate also starts with a Crew Loyalty level of 7. A Pirate may upgrade 
to a Brigantine by capturing and converting one (as per 8.5).
(6.22) Pirate Ships are rated for the following capacities:
Speed
, or the ability to Evade Warships or King’s Commissioners. 
As such it also represents maneuverability.
Combat
, or their ability to engage in naval battles with other ships, 
usually representing firepower (guns) as well as the crew capabili-
ties.
Holds
, or how much captured cargo, or Booty from a Port Attack, 
they can carry. Each Hold can carry one Merchant’s cargo manifest 
or one port’s loot; see 8.32.
(6.23) The three ship types for Pirates have the following maximum 
capacities:
Sloop
: Combat—5; Speed—5, Holds—2
Schooner
: Combat—6, Speed—3, Holds—3
Brigantine
: Combat—7, Speed—1, Holds—4
(6.24) Pirate Display: Each Pirate’s ship is represented by a Pirate 
Display, used to show which Pirate is commanding that vessel and which 
of the three ship types he has. It also has tracks for the current Combat, 
Speed, and Loyalty ratings, as well as tracks for the Holds. When a 
Pirate is first put into play, place a Speed marker on the Speed Track 
and a Combat marker on the Combat Track corresponding to the ship 
type selected for that Pirate (see 6.23 for the track starting positions). 
The Loyalty marker is always placed on the 7 space for new Ships. 
Play Note: that the “Jubilation” label on the Crew Loyalty track 
doesn’t actually mean anything game-wise; we just put it there so that 
you can experience your own Jubilation when the Loyalty marker gets 
that far along.
(6.25) Damage: Pirate Ships may suffer Damage. Damage will affect 
a Pirate Ship’s Speed and/or Combat ratings (see 6.26 and 6.27). Each 
Pirate Display contains tracks for Speed and Combat, the numbers 
within representing the current Speed/Combat rating of the Ship. When 
a Ship is first deployed, Speed and Combat markers are placed according 
to 6.23; as the game proceeds, these markers are moved up and down 
the track to indicate increases and decreases in the ratings. 
For each Damage Hit suffered, move the Speed or Combat marker 
(whichever type of hit it suffered) down its track, reflecting the ef-
fect of such Hits. 
When a Ship has incurred enough Damage Hits to its Speed or Com-
bat so that the Speed or Combat marker is placed in the Sunk’ Box 
on that Track, the ship is Sunk and everything aboard, including the 
Pirate, is Lost/Dead.
See 9.44 for repairing Damage by Refitting.
(6.26) Speed Damage: When a Ship takes Damage Hits from Storms 
at Sea or Wear and Tear, those Hits affect only the Speed. See 7.12. 
Any ship that has a current Speed rating of less than zero must spend 
two consecutive Move Actions to Move at all. Exception: Fair Winds, 
see 17.0). In addition, each time a Ship’s Speed rating falls from 0 to 
–1, the Crew Loyalty for that Ship decreases by one (–1).
(6.27) Combat Damage: When a Ship takes Damage Hits from Battle 
or Port Attack, those Hits affect only its Combat Rating. 

6.3 MERCHANT SHIPS
Merchant Ship counters show only one rating: a Cargo modifier, used 
in 8.32 and 8.35. See 6.12 for the different types of Merchant Ships.
(6.31) Merchant Ships are placed by rolling D66 and consulting the Port 
Locator number corresponding to that result. A Merchant Ship counter is 
drawn randomly from the Merchant Ship pool and placed in that Port’s 
Merchant Box. The counter is placed face down so that its information 
is unknown. The Port itself is considered its destination.
(6.32) If the Port rolled is one of the three Pirate Ports, or a destroyed 
port, or a Port with a Merchant ship already in its Merchant Box, place 
the Merchant in the Merchant Box of the next highest numbered avail-
able Port (start back at 11 if you reach 66).
(6.33) There may never be more than one merchant Ship in a given 
Port’s Merchant Box at any one time. 
(6.34) Merchant ships that are removed from play are placed back in 
the Merchant pool for (possible) use again.
6.4 WARSHIPS 
Warship counters show two ratings: Speed (on the left) 
and Combat (on the right). Speed is used in 6.45, Combat 
in 6.46.
Historical Note: Warships, mostly from The Royal Navy, 
were highly ineffective at finding, chasing or capturing Pirates, although 
they did have their successes.
Designer’s Note: Warships in the game are significantly less powerful 
than in the original version of Blackbeard. That is intentional, and was 
demanded by the research conducted for the new version. Historically, 
pirates were often successful against warships.
Living Rules Note: See 2.4 for a recommended change in the Combat 
procedure for Warships.
(6.41) A Warship enters the game through the play of a Warship Sight-
ing Event card, accoring to 6.42; as part of the card play, the Warship 
may be used by the AP Player to attempt to intercept the Pirate. An 
On-Station Warship (i.e., a Warship already on the map) may be 
activated as an Anti-Pirate Action, without the use of a card; it may 
be used as per 6.43. Only one Warship may ever be On Station in any 
one Sea Area. Warships are used exclusively to intercept and attack a 
Pirate according to 6.42 or 6.43.
(6.42) Placing and Using New Warships: When a Warship Sighting 
Event Card is played as an Event, that Anti-Pirate Player blindly and 
randomly draws a counter from the Warship pool and places it, with 
its Combat value side showing, in the Sea Area where the Pirate has 
announced or is performing one of the following Pirate Actions: 
—but not if the Attack is successful, because that places 
the Pirate in the Port itself, where the Warship cannot attack him 
(10.36)
Find Merchant Ship, Loot Merchant Ship, or Attack Port Action. The 
Action of placing a warship includes using it to attack the Pirate (6.23), 
but only if the Anti-Pirate player so desires. Once the Anti-Pirate Player 
reveals the Warship’s strength, he may choose not to attack, leaving it 
On Station. No more than one Warship Sighting card may be played 
during any given Pirate Player Turn, even if a Pirate conducts more 
than one Action during that Player-Turn, and even if the current Player 
activates more than one Pirate during the Player-Turn. 
Play Note: Note however, that AP Actions B and D are separate AP 
Action types. So during any given Player-Turn, it is legal for AP-
Player-2 to act against the active Pirate with the same Warship placed 
by AP-Player-1.
(6.43) Using On-Station Warships: A Warship already On-Station in a 
Sea Area may be used by any player in an AP Action, without playing 
a card, to attack an active Pirate who has announced or is performing 
any one of the following Pirate Actions in the Warship’s Sea Zone:
—but not if the Attack is successful, because that places 
the Pirate in the Port itself, where the Warship cannot attack him 
(10.36)
A (6.44) Restrictions on Warship AP Actions: No more than one 
Warship AP Action may be played against a Pirate during a given Pi-
rate Action. However, if a Pirate conducts multiple Actions in a Player 
Turn, each separate Action can instigate an Anti-Pirate Warship Action 
against him.
(6.45) When an AP Player announces he is interrupting an eligible Pirate 
Action in order to use a Warship to attack that Pirate, the Pirate must 
make an immediate decision whether to stay and fight or try to escape. 
If he decides to fight, immediately resolve the attack as per 6.46. If he 
opts to escape, the players undergo the procedure for finding the Pirate 
as outlined below. 
To find the Pirate, both Players roll a die separately. The Warship’s 
Speed is added to the Warship player’s result, while the Speed of the 
Pirate’s ship is added to the Pirate player’s result.
If the Warship’s total is higher than the Pirate total, it attacks the 
Pirate (see 6.46).
If the Warship’s total is lower, or the same as that of the Pirate total, 
the Pirate escapes and there is no battle. The Warship remains On 
Station where it is (and can be activated by any AP Player with an AP 
Use On-Station Warship Action in a later Player-Turn). The Pirate 
stays in the Sea Area in which the battle took place, but any Pirate 
Action he was conducting is immediately cancelled, and the Action 
is considered spent. If any Action involving a Merchant is cancelled, 
the Merchant is simply removed from play.
(6.46) To resolve the attack, the Pirate rolls a die and adds, to the result, 
his Ship’s Combat Rating and his Pirate’s Ability Rating. The AP Player 
who activated the Warship rolls a die, to which he adds the Warship’s 
Combat Rating (and modifies by a further +2 if using the Living Rules 
recommendation in 2.4).
If the Pirate’s total is higher than the Warship’s total the Pirate suf-
fers 1 Combat Damage Hit and the Warship is removed from play. 
The Pirate must now proceed with whatever Action he was about to 
undertake. The Pirate gains Notoriety Points equal to the Warship’s 
Combat rating.
If the Pirate’s total is the same as or lower than the Warship’s total the 
Warship has driven off the Pirate and the Pirate Action is cancelled. 
The Pirate Ship suffers Combat Damage Hits equal to the difference 
between the two totals and the Warship remains On Station. In addi-
tion, the Pirate suffers a loss of one Crew Loyalty Rating point. The 
Pirate stays in the Sea Area in which the battle took place, but any 
Pirate Action he was conducting is immediately cancelled, and the 
Action is considered spent. If any Action involving a Merchant is 
cancelled, the Merchant is simply removed from play.
Play Note: There are no Notoriety Points for a player whose Warship 
defeats a Pirate.
(6.47) Warships that are removed from play are placed back in the 
Warship pool for possible later use.
(6.48) Pirates may not attack Warships; Pirates engage in combat with 
Warships only via AP Warship actions.

7 MOVEMENT
7.1 MOVING IN SEA AREAS
(7.11) As a Pirate Action, a Player may move one of his Pirates as fol-
lows. These rules apply to moving KCs (10.0) as well:
One Sea Area to an adjacent Sea Area (
Exception: Fair Winds (see 
17.0); OR
A Sea Area into a Port in that Sea Area, or vice versa; OR
The “South America” Sea Area to the “South America – Gold Coast 
“Transit Box, or vice versa;
The “Gold Coast” Sea Area to either the “South America – Gold 
Coast Transit Box” or the “Gold Coast – East Africa” Transit Box, 
or vice versa.
The “East African” Sea Area to “Gold Coast – East Africa” Transit 
Box, or vice versa.
(7.12) Any Pirate Ship whose Speed is reduced below 0 by Damage, as 
per 6.26, must use two Move Actions simultaneously in order to Move. 
Exception: Fair Winds (see 17.0).
7.2 MOVING IN TRANSIT BOXES
Ships use Transit Boxes to represent Movement from one Region of 
the world to another. Entering a Transit Box costs one (1) Movement 
Action; exiting a Transit Box costs another. See 7.11 for how the Transit 
Boxes connect for movement. 
Ships in Transit Boxes may not be attacked in any way. However, they 
are subject to possible harm from Storms and other events. 
7.3 MOVING INTO AND OUT OF PORTS
A Ship may enter a Port from the adjoining Sea Area. Entering Port 
is a single and separate Move Action. Exiting a Port also costs one 
Move Action, and simply places the Pirate or KC into the adjoining 
Sea Area. 
8 MERCHANT SHIPS
Pirates gain Booty, Notoriety, Port Information, and more 
by capturing merchant ships as prizes. Warships (6.41 
and 8.22) and KCs (10.3) can save the Merchant Ship by 
driving away or eliminating the Pirate.
Dealing with Merchant Ships is a process involving various Actions and 
sub-Actions. These procedures are an attempt by the game to simulate 
the following real-world process:
	 The Pirate tries to spot a Merchant Ship and run it down (declare 
Find Merchant action).
	 The Pirate catches Merchant Ship (rolls 7+).
	 The Pirate ties up alongside the helpless Merchant Ship (declares 
a Loot action); takes inventory (determines cargo; adjusts loyalty 
and NP using the same result) and identifies Hostage (flips Hostage 
counter).
	 At this point, after appraising his current situation, the Pirate can 
4.	
do any or all of the following (still as part of the Loot action):
Convert the merchant, if desired
Take the new Cargo onto his ship (moving/jettisoning current 
Cargo to make room, if necessary)
Deal with (Hold/torture) the hostage
Adjust Loyalty and/or NP for the above, as appropriate
	 The Pirate can give his crew some R&R, declaring Debauchery & 
5.	
Revelry to do so. 
8.1 FINDING MERCHANTS
(8.11) Before a Pirate may capture a Merchant Ship and seize its cargo, 
he must first Find that ship. He may attempt to Find a Merchant in any 
Merchant Box in the Sea Area in which both he and the Merchant Ship 
counter are located. 
(8.12) A Find attempt is a Pirate Action. 
(8.13) To Find, the Player designates which Merchant Ship he is after 
and rolls a die, adding to the result the Ability Rating of the Pirate.
(8.14) If the adjusted dieroll is 7 or higher, that Pirate has found the 
Merchant Ship and, in a subsequent Action, may Loot it (see 8.2) Flip 
over the Merchant counter to see the type of ship (6.14) and its Cargo 
rating. If the adjusted dieroll is 6 or lower, the Pirate has found nothing: 
he has wasted an Action and the Merchant Ship remains in place. 
(8.15) Merchant Ships which have been Found by a Pirate but which, 
because of a lack of Actions remaining for that Pirate, do not end up 
being Looted (8.2) in the same Player-Turn, are available for Finding 
by any other Pirate. In such a case, the new Pirate adds one (+1) to the 
dieroll in 8.13. The new Pirate may not simply automatically Loot it, 
even if the new Pirate belongs to the same Player. 
8.2 LOOTING MERCHANTS
(8.21) A Merchant Ship that has been Found can be boarded and her 
cargo seized by the Pirate as part of a Loot Merchant Ship Action (see 
4.5 and 8.3). However, if, before that cargo-taking Action, a Storm at 
Seas card is played and a storm occurs in that Sea Area, the Merchant 
Ship is removed from play without being Looted. 
Historical Note: Once found, merchantmen did not have the speed or ca-
pability to avoid being caught. or the ability to fight the Pirates off. 
(8.22) To attempt to stop the Looting, any one Anti-Pirate Player may, at 
the instant the Looting process is announced (but before it has begun), 
play a Warship Sighting card, activate a Warship already on Station 
in that Sea Area (see 6.45 for the resolution), or use KC Reaction to 
attempt to intercept the Pirate (10.3). Once begun, the Looting process 
may not be interrupted.
(8.23) After being looted (8.3) the Merchant Ship counter is removed 
from the map and placed back in the Merchant Ship pool.
Example of Looting a Merchant
Holly’s Pirate, Charles Vane, is in the East Caribbean Sea Area with an 
undamaged Schooner. The Sea Area also has a Merchant Ship counter 
in the Santo Domingo Merchant box. Vane uses a Find Merchant Action, 
rolling a 4 which, when added to his Ability of 4, exceeds the required 
7. Holly flips the Merchant Ship marker over to reveal a Brigantine 
(Cargo rating of 3). For Vane’s second Action, Holly announces a Loot 
Merchant Ship Action. She waits for a few seconds to see if any other 
player wants to interrupt by using a Warship or a King’s Commissioner. 
No one does, so she determines the Cargo, rolling a a 6 on the Cargo 
Table, adding the Cargo rating for a total of 9. The Merchant has a cargo 
of 2500 Doubloons, a major haul! She then blindly draws a Hostage 
counter and flips it to reveal a Captain—Info of 5 and Value of 2. She 
decides to seize the Booty. 
Holly has no empty Holds, so she jettisons the 400 Doubloons from in 
one of the Holds and fills it with the 2500 Doubloons Vane just captured 
(she could, instead, have converted the Brigantine toher own use, but 
she wants the faster ship). She adjusts the Crew Loyalty Level on Vane’s 
ship by +1. She decides to torture him to gain information about Santo 
Domingo for a future attack. She rolls a 4, which is greater than Vane’s 
Cruelty rating of 3, so Vane gets 5 Info points; she writes a 5 in the 
Info column on the Santo Domingo line on the Port Grid. Vane gains 
2 Notoriety Points (from torturing the Hostage). Holly decides against 
declaring D&R.

8.3 THE LOOTING PROCESS
Historical Note: Pirates used to lie alongside a captured merchant for 
days, even weeks, loading cargo, prying info from hostages, and doing 
generally un-PC things to some of the passengers. That’s why it’s a 
separate Action from the one with which he found the Merchant ship.
(8.31) When a Pirate captures a Merchant Ship he may seize its cargo, 
take and deal with possible Hostages, and convert that Merchant Ship 
to his own. All of this consitutes one single Action, but a separate 
Action from Finding the Merchant. To Loot the ship, the Pirate first 
announces the Action so that everyone can hear it and have a chance 
to respond—this is the last time the Loot Merchant Action may be 
interrupted. After the announcement (and fighting off any Warships or 
King’s Commissioners), the player undergoes the following sequence 
(each step is detailed more fully throughout section 8.3):
	 Determine the Cargo (8.32), Identify the Hostage (8.41), and decide 
if you want to seize the Booty, acquiring the Cargo and the Hostage. 
If yes, continue to Step 2; if no, Crew Loyalty is decreased and the 
Pirate’s Action is ended;
	
2.	 Perform the following steps in whatever order desired:
Take the Cargo (8.32) and adjust Notoriety and/or Crew Loyalty 
(if applicable);
Convert the Merchant (8.5) if desired—only Sloops, Schooners, 
and Brigantines may be converted;
Deal with the Hostage (8.4); adjust Notoriety and/or Crew Loy-
alty (if applicable);
	 Remove Merchant Ship from board (8.34);
	
4.	 Declare Voluntary D&R, if desired (8.35 and 13.11) and adjusting 
Crew Loyalty as a result.
The Pirate’s Loot Action is now finished.
(8.32) Step 1
To determine the value of a Merchant’s Cargo, the Pirate 
player consults the Cargo Table and rolls a die, to which 
he adds the Cargo rating of the Found merchant (on the 
ship’s counter), and cross-references that dieroll with the 
Region in which this Action has taken place. The number 
is the worth of the Cargo in Doubloons. The Pirate Player now identi-
fies the Hostage aboard the Merchant Ship—see 8.41 for details. 
At this point, the Pirate Player decides whether or not to seize the 
Merchant Ship’s Booty (the Cargo and the Hostage). If yes, go to 8.33. 
If no, decrease the Pirate Ship’s Crew Loyalty rating by one (–1); the 
Loot Merchant Action is finished.
Design and Historical Note: Most ship cargos turned out to be fairly 
worthless: paper goods, cloth, building materials, whatever. Obviously 
the bigger, more valuable cargos, sailed in the bigger vessels. Rather 
than list these by name, we have converted them to possible (and rela-
tive) worth.
(8.33) Step 2
In this Step, the items listed above in 8.31(#2) in any order the Pirate 
Player wishes.
Take the Cargo: Here the Pirate takes the Cargo determined by die-
roll in Step 1. He adds Number markers to one of his empty Holds 
to reflect the amount of the new Cargo in Doubloons. If he does not 
have an empty Hold, he either abandons the Cargo gained in Step 1, he 
jettisons one Hold’s worth of cargo in order to accommodate the new 
Cargo, or (if he wishes) he converts the Merchant Ship to his own Ship 
(see 8.5) in order to gain extra Holds (assuming the Merchant Ship has 
more Holds than his does). Taking the Cargo earns that Pirate Notoriety 
Points equal to that ship’s Cargo Rating; it can also result in an increase 
in the Pirate’s Crew Loyalty level, depending on the roll on the Cargo 
table (see the Play Aid card).
Convert the Merchant Ship: The Pirate replaces his own ship with 
the Merchant Ship—see 8.5 for details. He does this for any number 
of reasons, including wanting a Ship that has more Holds, a Ship that 
is more powerful in combat or has greater speed, or simply to get an 
undamaged Ship. Note that only Sloops, Schooners, and Brigantines 
may be converted into Pirate Ships.
Deal with the Hostage: The Pirate decides how to deal with the Hos-
tage. See 8.4 for details. This procedure can result in an adjustment of 
the Pirate’s Notoriety Points and/or the Crew Loyalty level (see the 
Play-Aid card).
(8.34) Step 3
The Merchant Ship counter is removed and returned to the Merchant 
pool.
(8.35) Step 4
The Pirate may declare Voluntary D&R for his Crew. See 13.11 for 
details.
Once Step 4 is completed, the Loot Merchant action is finished.
8.4 HOSTAGES
Hostage counters have two ratings: Information (on the 
left) and Value (on the right) Information is used in 8.46 
and 9.52. Value comes into play in 8.44 and 9.42.
(8.41) In a Loot Merchant Ship Action, after determining 
the cargo, the player draws, blindly and randomly, a Hostage counter 
from the Hostage pool and places it in the Hostages box on the Pirate 
Display. Next, as per 8.43, the Player decides what to do with the Hos-
tage. A Pirate ship may carry more than one Hostage.
(8.42) Each Hostage counter notes what type of person on that merchant 
is the focus of the Pirates’ attentions. Each Hostage is rated for:
Information
: The Hostage’s knowledge of the Port to which the 
Merchant was adjacent when captured. See 8.46 for using a Hos-
tage’s Information.
Value
: That hostage’s possible value when ransomed, and the amount 
of Notoriety gained if the hostage is tortured (see 8.45 and 18.2).
(8.43) After drawing the Hostage counter, the player must immediately 
determine what his Pirate will do with that Hostage: hold him/her for 
Ransom (8.45) or Torture him/her for Information. The choice is entirely 
up to the player, but again, it must be made immediately.
(8.44) Hold for Ransom: Based on the Hostage’s possible Value, the 
Pirates do nothing to harm the Hostage but instead hold him/her for 
when the Pirate gets to a suitable Port (see 9.42 for how ransom works). 
The Hostage counter is kept in the Hostages box on the Pirate Display, 
along with a Nationality marker denoting the nationality of the Port 
to which the Hostage was adjacent when captured. Be sure to keep all 
Hostage and Nationality marker pairs separate from one another (put 
the Nationality marker on top of the Hostage marker). 
Play Note: The upside of ransoming a Hostage is the possible gain in 
Booty/Net Worth; the downside is there is no increase in Crew Loyalty 
or gain of Notoriety.
(8.45) Torture: If the Pirate chooses Torture, the Player rolls a die and 
compares it to his Pirate’s Cruelty rating:
If that dieroll is greater than the Pirate’s Cruelty rating, the Hostage 
provides Information (8.46) and then dies.
If that dieroll is the same as or lower than the Pirate’s Cruelty rating, 
the Hostage dies without providing Information (but the crew has 
still enjoyed themselves). 
No matter what the result, the torture provides increases in crew 
Loyalty (by +1) and Notoriety Points (see 18.2) regardless of the 
effect of Torture. Once these are determined, the Hostage counter is 
returned to the Hostage pool.

(8.46) Information. A Hostage who provides Information (see 8.45) is 
considered to provide Information for the Port to which the Merchant 
was adjacent when captured (and only that Port). Use the Port Grid to 
keep track of the Information gained by each Pirate for each Port. That 
Pirate now has Information Points equal to that Hostage’s Information 
rating when Attacking that Port (see 9.52) for the rest of that Pirate’s 
game existence, or (of course) until the Port is Destroyed. If a Pirate 
captures more than one Hostage at the same Port (i.e., in Loot Merchant 
Ship Actions against separate Merchant Ships), the Information Points 
gained about the Port are cumulative, assuming the Pirate hangs around 
in the game long enough to use them.
8.5 CONVERTING MERCHANT SHIPS
In Step 2 of 8.31 (the Looting procedure), the Pirate may convert the 
Merchant Ship he has just captured to his own use. However, neither 
Flutes nor 3-Masted Square-Riggers may be so converted to Pirate 
use—the counters for both Ship types have black borders designating 
that they may not be converted. Only Sloops, Schooners, and Brigan-
tines may be converted. 
To perform the Conversion, the Player moves the Ship Type marker on 
the Pirate Display for that Pirate to the appropriate box and changes the 
Combat and Speed markers to reflect the new ship type; both markers 
are placed at their maximum settings to reflect the fact that the new 
Ship is undamaged. Retain the previous ship’s Crew Loyalty, but it is 
raised by one if the new ship is larger than the old (i.e., a Brigantine 
replaces a Schooner or a Schooner replaces a Sloop), and lowered by 
one if the new Ship is smaller than the old.
All other markers remain in place, including, Hostages, Attack History 
markers, Heavy Guns, etc.—except possibly for the markers in the 
Holds. The Pirate must fill one Hold on the new Ship with the newly 
seized Cargo. If doing so creates a situation in which there are now too 
many Holds full of Cargo for the new Ship to accommodate, enough 
previously filled Holds must be jettisoned (i.e., the markers removed) 
so that the new Ship as the correct number of filled Holds.
Example A: A Pirate with a Schooner, all three of its Holds occupied, 
loots a Brigantine. He decides to Convert it to his own use. He leaves 
the markers in place on all three of his Holds and occupies the fourth 
Hold with markers representing the newly seized Cargo.
Example B: A Pirate with a Schooner, all three of its Holds occupied, 
loots a Sloop. Because the Sloop is undamaged (and faster), he decides 
to Convert it to his own use. He removes the markers from two of the 
original Holds (his choice which two) and, in the now empty Hold, 
places markers representing the newly seized Cargo.
Example C: A Pirate with a Schooner, all three of its Holds occupied, 
loots another Schooner (presumably because it is undamaged). He 
removes the markers from one of the Holds (his choice of which) and 
in the now empty Hold, places markers representing the newly seized 
Cargo.
Play Note: Converting Merchant Ships is how a Pirate gets to use a 
Brigantine as his Pirate Ship ... assuming he finds and successfully loots 
one. It is also a good way to get an undamaged Ship. 
Historical Note: Pirates were handy at converting merchantmen to 
their own uses, typically by adding guns to make them more powerful. 
However, 3-Masted Square-Riggers were rarely, if ever, so used, as they 
were too slow with too deep a draft for Pirate purposes. Blackbeard’s 
famous ship, “Queen Anne’s Revenge”, was a converted French mer-
chantman. 
9 PORTS
9.1 PORTS IN GENERAL
(9.11) There are 36 Ports in the game, each with a Locator Number 
corresponding to a D66 roll (see 2.5). Each Port is considered to be 
located in the Sea Area it adjoins. 
Example: St. Augustine (21) is in the N. Atlantic Area, while Campeche 
(22) is in the Central America Area.
(9.12) Each Port has a nationality, corresponding to its color and its 
coat-of-arms. See 2.2. Three ports—Pirate Ports–have no nationality.
(9.13) Each Port has two ratings, its Value (if captured) and its Defense 
(i.e., its strength when attacked). Pirate Ports have no such ratings.
(9.14) Ports provide places where Pirates may do any or all of the fol-
lowing at various times:
Convert Booty into Net Worth
Ransom Hostages
Purchase a Safe Haven
Recover from Scurvy
Refit their Ships and Crews
Bribe Governors
Sack the Port
Enter D&R status
Retire 
(9.15) A Pirate enters a Port as specified in 7.11 and 7.3, at which point 
he is In-Port. Once he is In-Port, he may conduct a variety of tasks by 
spending a separate “In Port Activities” Action (4.5 and 9.4).
9.2 GOVERNORS
(9.21) Some Ports have Governors; some do not. Governors are either 
Pro-Pirate or Anti-Pirate, as indicated on their counter. A Port with 
no Governor is Neutral. This status determines what a Pirate can do 
in that port.
(9.22) The game starts with eight (8) Pro-Pirate Governors in place, as 
per 3.0, Step 5. The 16 Anti-Pirate Governors arrive via the play of the 
New Governors Event cards (two AP Governors per card). See 17.0.
(9.23) Governors removed from the board are out of the game.
(9.24) When an Anti-Pirate Governor is placed in a Port during the 
game, any Pirates in that port are automatically Ousted (10.5).
9.3 PORT STATUS
That status of a Port—determined by what type of Governor it has or 
whether it is a Pirate Port–determines much of what a Pirate can do 
in that Port.
(9.31) Ports with Anti-Pirate Governors: These Ports, known as 
Anti-Pirate Ports, may not be entered by any Pirate, except as a result 
of Attacking the port (9.59). However, if a Pirate has a Letter of Marque 
for that port’s Nationality, he may treat this port as Pro-Pirate for all 
purposes except gaining Safe Haven status (9.45).
(9.32) Pro-Pirate Governor Ports: These Ports, known as Pro-Pirate 
Ports, may be used as follows: 
Pirate may convert Booty to Net Worth on a 1-to-1 basis (9.43).
Pirate may ransom Hostages, except if the Port is Arab or Portuguese. 
See 9.42.
 
Refit Action spent, the Pirate Player rolls a die and removes half the 
result (rounded up) worth of Damage Hits, either Combat or Speed. 
See 9.44.

Pirate may make this port a Safe Haven for him by purchasing Safe 
Haven status. See 9.45.
Pirate may attempt to Retire. See 18.41.
(9.33) Neutral—no Governor—Ports: These Ports may be used as 
follows:
Pirate may convert Booty to Net Worth on a 50% basis (rounded 
up). Thus, Booty worth 2000 Doubloons increases his Net Worth 
by 1000 (9.43). 
Pirate may ransom Hostages, except if the Port is Arab or Portuguese. 
See 9.44.
 
Refit Action spent, the Pirate Player rolls a die and removes half the 
result (rounded up) worth of Damage Hits, either Combat or Speed. 
See 9.44
If a Pirate has a Letter of Marque for that port’s Nationality, he may 
treat this port as Pro-Pirate for all purposes except gaining Safe 
Haven status (9.45).
(9.34) Safe Havens: There is no limit to the number of Safe Havens a 
single Pirate may have; however, a given Port may be a Safe Haven for 
only one Pirate at a time. If the Pro-Pirate Governor is replaced (9.22) 
by an Anti-Pirate Governor, or by no Governor at all, or that Pirate 
attacks that Port, that port is no longer a Safe Haven for that Pirate. 
In addition, when a Pirate retires or dies, that Port is no longer a Safe 
Haven for that Pirate. Pirates who have Safe Haven status in a Port 
(9.45) may use the Port for the list of activities below:
Pirate may convert Booty to Net Worth on a 1-to-1 basis (9.43), 
plus an additional 10% (rounding up). Thus a Booty total of 2000 
Doubloons would increase his Net Worth by 2200 Doubloons.
Pirate may ransom Hostages (9.42), except if the Port is Arab or 
Portuguese.
 
Refit Action spent, the Pirate Player rolls a die and removes half 
the result (rounded up) plus two (+2) worth of Damage Hits, either 
Combat or Speed (Player’s choice). See 9.44. 
Pirate may attempt to Retire (18.0)
(9.35) Pirate Ports: There are three ports that are purely Pirate Ports, 
ports essentially existing as bases for any and all Pirates … sort of 
corporate HQ for the industry. The Pirate ports are Isle de Tortuga (35), 
New Providence (44), and Isle Ste.. Marie (66). Pirate Ports may be 
Attacked and Destroyed by King’s Commissioners (10.4). Pirate Ports 
have the following attributes:
Pirate Ports never have governors. They have no Nationality, Value 
or Garrison. 
Pirate Ports may be used to convert Booty to Net Worth on a 1-to-
1 basis (9.43). Any such conversion results in an automatic D&R 
(13.1).
D&R in a Pirate Port earns a +3 to Crew Loyalty, the highest such 
increase possible.
Ransoming Hostages is not allowed.
Refitting is allowed: all Damage Hits of both types are automati-
cally removed.
9.4 IN PORT ACTIVITIES
Pirates need and use Ports to gain Net Worth (by converting Booty 
and/or Ransoming Hostages), Refit their Ships, engage in a little 
vacation through Debauchery and Revelry (13.0), and establish Safe 
Havens (9.43). 
(9.41) A Pirate moves into a Port by expending a Move a Pirate Ac-
tion (7.11 and 7.3); once he enters Port, he has In-Port status until he 
leaves. The instant a Pirate is In-Port he recovers from Scurvy (no Ac-
tion is necessary to do this); he also cannot have a Scurvy Outbreak 
card played against him while In-Port. A Pirate who is In Port may 
undertaken any/all of the items below (9.42–9.45) as part of one “In 
Port Activities” Action (4.5), depending on the Status of the Port (9.3). 
The activities that may be performed during an In-Port Activities Ac-
tion are as follows, and if more than one is being conducted they are 
carried out in this order: 
	 Ransom Hostages (9.42);
	 Convert Booty to Net Worth (9.43), in which case, if in a Pirate 
Port, Step #5 must occur;	
 Refit (9.44);
	 Purchase Safe Haven Status (9.45);
4.	
	 Enter Involuntary D&R status or declare Voluntary D&R status 
5.	
(13.22).
(9.42) Ransoming Hostages. To gain Doubloons for a Hostage, the 
Pirate must be in a Pro-Pirate, Safe Haven, or Neutral Port of the same 
Nationality as the Port to which the Hostage’s Merchant Ship was 
originally adjacent (the Nationality marker stacked with the Hostage 
marker in the Hostage box gives you this information). Hostages may 
not be Ransomed in an Arab or Portuguese port (note: this means that 
Arab or Portuguese Hostages may never be ransomed). To see what the 
Pirate gets for his unwilling passenger, roll 2d6 and multiply the result 
by the Value Rating of the Hostage (8.42). Then multiply that result 
by 50, and add the Doubloons to any of the Holds on the Pirate’s Ship 
(Holds already containing Booty are eligible for this). This Booty does 
not go directly to Net Worth—the Pirate may want to sail for another 
Port type to get a better conversion rate—although a player in port can 
ransom the Hostage before converting his Booty to Net Worth in order 
to make the two happen essentially simultaneously. After the ransom is 
complete, return the Hostage marker to the Hostage pool.
Example: A Governor’s Daughter, with a Value of 6, is seized by Black-
beard in the South Atlantic off Charleston, a British port. Blackbeard has 
a Safe Haven in Bath, also a British Port, so he heads there to collect 
Ransom. The Hostage Value is 6, and the 2d6 roll is 8, for a result of 
48. Multiplying this result by 50 yields 2400 Doubloons. Blackbeard 
already has 500 Doubloons in each of his sloop’s two Holds, so adding 
the ransom amount to a Hold increases his total Booty to 3400. 
(9.43) Converting Booty to Net Worth: A Pirate may convert the 
Booty his ship is holding to Net Worth. The act of conversion simply 
transfers the Doubloons that are Booty into Net Worth. See 9.3 for the 
conversion rates for each Port type. Converting Booty to Net Worth 
empties as many of the Ship’s Holds as the Pirate wishes; usually this 
means all of them, but the Pirate may hold one or more Holds back if 
he wishes (presumably to try to reach a Port with a better conversion 
rate). Adjust the number markers on the Pirate’s Net Worth track (Pirate 
Display) to show the increase in Net Worth.
Example: Continuing the example from 9.42, the Pirate uses his next 
Pirate Action to convert all his Booty to Net Worth in the same Port 
(remember, it’s a Safe Haven), increasing increase his Net Worth by 
3400+340, or 3740. A decent haul!
(9.44) Refit. Ship Damage may be repaired by Refitting. If a Pirate is 
In Port as part of his In Port Action he may Refit his Ship (exception, 
see 9.32 and 9.33). To do so, roll a die and halve the total, rounding 
up. If the Port is a Safe Haven add two (+2) to that result. This new 
result is the number of Damage Hits removed, the type of Hits (Speed 
and/or Combat) being up to the Player. Move the Damage marker(s) 
up the track(s) on the Pirate Display to record such repairs. If this does 
not completely repair his ship, he may Refit again in a later Action. 
Damage Repair is total and automatic in a Pirate Port; no dieroll is 
necessary and all Damage hits of both kinds are removed. Pirates may 
not Refit in Arab Ports.

(9.45) Purchasing Safe Haven Status: This must be done after all other 
In Port activities are finished, and may be done only in a Pro-Pirate 
Port (see 9.32) that is not already a Safe Haven for another Pirate. To 
bribe the Governor (which is how Safe Haven status is purchased), 
the Pirate rolls a die and multiplies the result by 100; the new result 
is the number of Doubloons that Pirate must pay from his Net Worth 
(not directly from his Holds) in order to succeed. However, he is not 
committed to doing this, even at this point; he may back out if he feels 
the amount is too high, but he is still considered to have attempted to 
have Bribed that Governor. A Pirate may attempt to bribe a specific 
Governor only once; place a “Governor Bribed” marker corresponding 
to that Governor in the “Governors Bribed” box on the Pirate Display 
to show that he has done so. Use the Port Grid to keep track of the fact 
that the Pirate has a Safe Haven in that port. 
Play Note: A Letter of Marque does not give an Anti-Pirate Port or a 
Neutral Port a Pro-Pirate Governor for Safe Haven purchase purposes; 
it only renders that port Pro-Pirate for other Actions.
9.5 PIRATE ATTACKS ON PORTS
Pirates may attack Ports to get Booty and Notoriety. He may also at-
tempt to Destroy the port, rendering it useless to all others.
(9.51) A Port Attack is a separate Action, undertaken while the Pirate 
is in the Sea Area adjoining the Port (a Pirate may not attack a Port he 
is currently in). Attacking the Port automatically places that Pirate In 
that Port (see 9.59 for all the possibilities). A Destroyed port may not 
be attacked (as there is no reason to do so), and Pirate Ports may not be 
attacked by Pirates (only by King’s Commissioners). If a Warship is On 
Station in the Sea Area from which a Pirate is performing the Attack, it 
may try to stop the Pirate from Attacking (6.45 and 6.46). 
(9.52) To Attack a port the Pirate rolls a die, adding his Ship’s Combat 
Rating and his Pirate’s Ability rating to the result. If he has obtained 
Information about the Port from Hostages (8.46), he adds the Infor-
mation Points obtained to the dieroll result as well. Any other Player 
(doesn’t matter who) rolls a die (or sometimes 2d6—see 9.58), to which 
he adds the port’s Defense rating. 
If the Pirate’s Attack Total is higher than the Port’s Defense Total 
the Attack is Successful (9.53). His ship suffers 1 Combat Damage 
Hit.
If the Pirate’s Attack Total is the same as or lower than the Port’s 
Defense Total the Attack Fails (9.54).
Whether successful or not, the Pirate Player places an Attack History 
marker corresponding to the attacked Port in the Attack History box 
on his Pirate Display.
(9.53) If the Attack is Successful:
The Pirate rolls a number of dice equal to that Port’s Value rating, 
adding them together and multiplying that total by 100 to determine 
how much Booty he has gained from the attack. Port Booty takes 
up one entire Hold (he may jettison an existing Hold to create space 
if he wishes);
The Pirate earns Notoriety Points equal to double (x2 the port’s Value 
rating (see 18.2);
The Pirate’s Crew Loyalty is increased by 1;
The Pirate’s Ship suffers 1 Combat Damage hit;
The Pirate automatically enters the Port
Nothing happens to the Port, except that it’s harder to attack success-
fully afterwards (9.58).
Example: Christopher Condent successfully attacks San Juan. Its Port 
Value is 2, so Condent’s player rolls 2 dice, a 5 and a 2, giving him a 
7 which, multiplied by 100, gives him 700 D in Booty. He uses one of 
his Holds to store the Booty, and he raises his Crew Loyalty track by 1 
and lowers the marker on his Combat Damage track by 1.
(9.54) If the Attack is Unsuccessful:
The Ship suffers Combat Damage Hits equal to the difference between 
the Defense Total and the Attack Total. 
Nothing happens to the Port. 
Example: Condent attacks San Juan. He rolls a 2, which, added to his 
Ability (4) and Ship Combat Rating (4 at this time), gives him an attack 
total of 10. The dieroll for the San Juan Defense is a 5, giving it a total 
defense of 12, better than Condent’s Attack total by 2. Condent’s ship 
suffers 2 Combat Damage Hits.
Play Note: Yes, equal totals mean no damage.
(9.55) Sacking a Port. After a Successful Attack, as his 
very next Action (whether in this turn or the next), a Pirate 
may choose to Sack the port and Destroy it. (Remember, 
he’s still In-Port, see 9.59). Sacking a port takes an entire 
Action (separate from the actual Attack). The Pirate rolls 
a die, to which he adds his Cruelty Rating. If the result is higher than 
the Port’s Defense rating, the Port has been Sacked and Destroyed. The 
results are as follows:
A Sacked Port is Destroyed and useless for the rest of the game. 
Indicate this with a “Port Destroyed” marker. 
The Crew’s Loyalty is increased by an additional 1 (+1).
The Pirate earns Notoriety equal to 
two times (x2) the Port’s Value 
rating (in addition to any other NP he has earned for the original 
attack). See 18.2.
The Pirate is placed in the adjoining Sea Area (see 9.59). 
Any other 
Pirates who were in the port before it was sacked are also placed 
in the adjoining Sea Area, retaining any status (such as D&R) they 
had at that time.
The Crew undergoes automatic Debauchery & Revelry; place a D&R 
marker on the Pirate counter and see 13.0. And remember, he is now 
At Sea, so he must spend an Action to enter Port —but not the one he 
just Sacked, because it is Destroyed—and spend a D&R Recovery 
Action to remove the D&R marker. 
If the Sack attempt was unsuccessful , treat as if nothing happened 
except a wasted Action (see 9.59). The Pirate may not try to Sack 
that port unless he leaves and attacks again.
Example: Condent has successfully attacked San Juan and now wishes 
to Sack it. He rolls a 5 which, when added to his Cruelty of 3 gives him 
8, one higher than San Juan’s Defense rating. The Sack is successful.
Play Note: If a Player plays a D&R card against the Pirate before the 
Port is Sacked, the Pirate loses the opportunity to do so.
(9.56) A Pirate earns Notoriety for successfully attacking a port and even 
more if he Sacks it, dependent on the Value of the port. Crew Loyalty 
is also increased by a successful Attack and Sack. See the Notoriety 
and Crew Loyalty Tables and 18.2. 
Play Note: Sacking a Port increases Crew Loyalty by two, as the Crew 
gets +1 for the Sack and +1 for the resultant D&R. 
(9.57) A Port that is attacked, but not Sacked, retains its Defense and 
Value ratings. But see 9.58.
(9.58) Once a Pirate has Attacked a Port, whether successful or not: 
All other Ports of that Nationality are automatically Anti-Pirate for 
that Pirate, except for any Port for which he has a Safe Haven. Keep 
track of this on that Pirate’s Display by placing an Attack History 
marker of the appropriate Nationality marker in the Attack History 
box. Example: Condent has attacked San Juan. All Spanish Ports 
are now considered Anti-Pirate for Condent.
The Pirate loses (remove from game) any Letter of Marque he has if 
he obtained that Letter of Marquee at a Port of the same Nationality 
as the one he attacked. Example: Before Condent attacked San Juan, 

he had obtained a Letter of Marque at Honduras; he now loses the 
Letter of Marque.
Place a “Port Attacked” marker on top of that Port. Any Port with an 
“Attacked” marker that is Attacked again adds the result of a 2d6 roll 
to its Defense, not 1d6 (but remember that a Sacked port is entirely 
destroyed and has no Defense).
(9.59) At the conclusion of an Attack or Sack, the Pirate’s physical 
position is as follows:
Successful Port Attack
: Pirate is In the attacked Port.
Successful Port Sack
: Pirate is at Sea in that Port’s Sea Area.
Failed Port Attack
: Pirate is at Sea in that Port’s Sea Area.
Failed Port Sack
: Pirate is In the Port he attempted to Sack.
9.6 BOOTY GRAB 
(9.61) A Pirate who enters (or is already in) a Port where another Pirate 
is In-Port and undergoing Debauchery & Revelry (13.0) may attempt to 
steal Booty which that Pirate has not yet converted to Net Worth. Booty 
Grab is an In-Port Action, separate from the other In Port Actions (and 
thus requiring a separate Action). He may not steal Net Worth.
(9.62) To grab another Pirate’s Booty, the Pirates each roll a die, to which 
they add their Pirate’s Ability Rating. In addition, the Booty-Grabbing 
Pirate adds one (+1) to his dieroll result to account for the other Pirate 
sleeping it off, while the target of the Grab can add two (+2) by playing 
a Skull and Crossbones Event Card (see 17.2): 
If the Grabbing Pirate’s adjusted roll is higher, he is successful. Re-
member the difference between the adjusted rolls and see 9.63.
If the two Pirates’ adjusted rolls are the same, a Duel automatically 
occurs. See 15.0 for how to resolve this situation.
If the Grabbing Pirate’s adjusted roll is lower, the Booty Grabber 
gets nothing and incurs a –2 Loss of Crew Loyalty. 
(9.63) If the Booty Grabbing Pirate was successful, he now rolls another 
1d6, to which he adds the winning difference from 9.62. The result, 
multiplied by 10, is the total percentage (%) of the other Pirate’s Booty 
he has grabbed, rounded up. On his Pirate Display, he increases the 
Booty in one of his Holds by the captured amount. The victim Pirate 
reduces the Booty on his own Pirate Display by the same amount, tak-
ing it from whichever Hold or Holds he wishes.
Example: Ned Low (Ability 3), attempts to steal Stede Bonnet’s (Abil-
ity 2) Booty. Low rolls a 4, Bonnet a 3, so Low is successful with a 
difference of 3—the calculation is 3+4+1(=8) minus 2+3(=5) for a 
difference of 3. Low’s then rolls a 3, and that 3 plus his difference of 
3 give him a 6, which translates to 60% of Bonnet’s total Booty. Low 
increases the amount of Booty in one of his Ship’s Holds by the result-
ing amount, while Bonnet reduces the amount in his own Holds by that 
same amount.
10 KING’S COMMISSIONERS
Historical Note: King’s Commissioners (KCs) 
were British seagoing bounty hunters hired 
by The Crown or its Governors when piracy 
became too prevalent and it was in their fi-
nancial interests to get rid of them. Some were 
ex-Pirates who changed sides. One infamous KC turned Pirate: Captain 
William Kidd (although he was hired privately, not by The Crown). 
Several Pirates, such as Benjamin Hornigold, became KCs.
KC counters in the game represent fleets of ships, along with their hired 
leader, assembled specifically for the job of cleaning up certain pirates 
and the areas in which they operate.
KC counters have two ratings: Speed (on the left) and Combat (on the 
right). The Speed rating is used in 10.32, the Combat rating in 10.34, 
10.4, and 10.52.
Living Rules Note: See 2.4 for a recommended change in the Combat 
procedure for King’s Commissioners.
10.1 HOW KCs ARRIVE
(10.11) KCs enter the game in the following ways:
as a player’s Anti-Pirate Action, as per 10.12
by play of a 
KC Surprise AP Event Card (see 17.12)
by play of a 
Pirate Converts AP Event card (see 17.2) 
(10.12) At any time after a Pirate Action has been announced or begun, 
an AP Player may attempt to deploy a KC as his AP Action by rolling 
3d6 and comparing that total to the Notoriety Points of the Pirate that 
is currently active but not In-Port or in a Transit Box. If the result of 
the 3d6 roll is lower than that Notoriety total, the player draws, blindly 
and randomly, a KC counter from the KC pool and places it in the same 
Sea Area as the active Pirate (even if that Sea Area contains the player’s 
own Pirate—see 10.26).
Example: Avery has 12 Notoriety Points. An AP Player wishing to 
place a KC in the Sea Area in which Avery is located rolls a 3, a 5, and 
a 2, for a total of 10. This result is lower than Avery’s Notoriety, so a 
KC is placed in Avery’s current Sea Area. Had the AP Player rolled a 
10, exactly equal to Avery’s Notoriety Point total, the attempt would 
have failed.
(10.13) No player may ever have more than one KC in play, and each 
individual KC is always controlled solely by the player who deployed 
him. 
(10.14) KCs that are eliminated during the game are out of the game 
permanently. 
(10.15) The number of KCs available in the game is nine—the eight 
named KC counters and the single “Ex-Pirate” KC counter. The lat-
ter comes into the game solely by play of the KC Converts AP Event 
Card (see 17.2).
10.2 HOW KCs FUNCTION
(10.21) Each KC counter contains the Combat and Speed ratings for 
the KC’s ship.
(10.22) A KC may be used only by an Anti-Pirate Player as an Anti-
Pirate Action against the currently active Pirate (and never against the 
AP Player’s own Pirate).
(10.23) During a given Player-Turn, only one King’s Commissioner may 
conduct KC AP Actions. In addition, any or all KCs may conduct KC 
Reaction (10.32). KC Reaction is not considered a KC AP Action—KC 
Reaction may occur whenever the situation allows. 
Play Note: In other words, only one KC AP Action is allowed per Player 
Turn, but there is no restriction on KC Reactions.
(10.24) KC Reaction consists of KCs attempting to intercept and attack 
Pirates performing any of the Pirate Action in 10.31, in the same Sea 
Area as the KC or an adjacent Sea Area. KC Reaction may not occur 
in Ports or Transit Boxes.
(10.25) A KC AP Action may consist of one of the Actions covered 
in 10.4. 
(10.26) KCs may never move into a Port. Even when attacking a Port, 
as per 10.4 or 10.5, the KC is considered in that Port’s Sea Area. KCs 
are not subject to 9.59—only Pirates are.
(10.27) A Player may place a KC in a Sea Area that contains any of that 
Player’s own Pirates. However, no Pirate may move into (or remain in) 
a Sea Area that also contains his own KC. An In-Port Pirate in a Sea 
Area that also contains that Player’s KC may not leave that Port until 
the KC leaves the Area.

10.3 KC Reaction
KC Reaction applies exclusively to KC activities against Pirates who 
are performing certain actions in the same Sea Area as the KC or an 
Sea Area. KC Reaction may not occur against a Pirate in a a Port or a 
Transit Box. 
(10.31) How KC Reaction Works: KCs may react to Pirate Actions 
listed in 10.31 conducted in either the same or an adjacent Sea Area, 
every single time the Pirate conducts such an action. When KC Reac-
tion is invoked, the KC’s player immediately places the KC in the same 
Sea Area as the Pirate and proceeds to attempt to Intercept the Pirate, 
following the procedure in 10.33). There is no restriction on how 
many KCs may conduct KC Reaction during any given Player Turn, 
but only one may do so per Pirate Action—if more than one KC is in 
position to do so, the first KC player to declare KC Reaction gets the 
nod; if there’s a dispute, it’s determined by player order). KC Reaction 
is not considered an AP Action; it is simply an procedure available to 
the KC player whenever the situation permits. An AP Player may use 
both KC Reaction (as often as the situation permits) and an AP Action 
(using the normal AP Action rules) in the same player-turn. Note that 
Transit boxes are not considered adjacent to the Sea Areas to which 
they connect.
Play Note: If a KC is in position to conduct KC Reaction but wishes 
to conduct a KC AP Action instead—and is eligible to do so—he may 
perform the KC AP Action. A KC is never forced to conduct KC Reac-
tion.
(10.32) Actions Triggering KC Reaction: KCs may React to an active 
Pirate who, in the same or adjacent Area, has announced or is in the 
process of conducting any of the following actions.
Move
—including announcing a Move, or while actually moving from 
one Sea Area to another or from a Sea Area into a Port;
—only upon the announcement of an Attack Port action 
or after an unsuccessful such action. If the Attack is successful, the 
KC may not React, because success places the Pirate in the Port itself, 
where the KC cannot attack him (10.36)
A KC may not React to a Pirate on the Player-Turn it is placed (because 
the Deploy a Pirate Action is not listed above). 
(10.33) Intercepting a Pirate: To Intercept a Pirate, the KC Player an-
nounces the Interception attempt (via KC Reaction). The Pirate Player 
must make an immediate decision whether to try to escape or to stay 
and fight. If he opts to try to escape, the players undergo the Interception 
procedure below. If he opts to fight, go straight to 10.34.
To resolve the Interception, the KC and Pirate Players each roll a die. 
To the results they add their respective ship’s Speed rating. In addition, 
the KC subtracts one (–1) from his result if he moved into the Pirate’s 
Sea Area in this same KC Action: 
If the KC’s adjusted total is greater than that of the Pirate, the KC 
has Intercepted the Pirate. See 10.34 for the effects.
If the KC’s adjusted total is lower than that of the Pirate, or the 
same, the Pirate has successfully escaped. The Pirate stays in the Sea 
Area in which the battle took place, but any Pirate Action he was 
conducting—except a Move Action—is immediately cancelled and 
the Action is considered spent. If any action involving a Merchant is 
cancelled, the Merchant is simply removed from play.
(10.34) If the Interception is Successful, the Pirate must EITHER:
Engage in Combat (10.34); 
OR
Surrender by using a Letter of Marque, which he must already possess 
(its Nationality does not matter), to forego any combat and allow him 
to Retire on the spot. See 18.4. 
(10.35) To resolve combat, the Pirate rolls a die and, to the result, adds 
his Pirate Ability and the Combat rating of his Ship. The KC rolls a die 
and adds his Combat rating to the result (and modifies by a further +2 if 
using the Living Rules recommendation in 2.4). The players compare 
their adjusted results:
If the Pirate’s total is higher than the KC’s total, the Pirate has de-
feated the KC. The KC is removed from the game. The Pirate gains 
Notoriety Points equal to double (x2) the KC’s Combat Rating, and 
the Pirate’s Crew Loyalty level increases by 1.
If the Pirate’s total is lower than the KC’s total, or the same, the 
Pirate has been Eliminated and is out of the game. The KC remains 
in place.
(10.36) If a KC kills a Pirate (his ship sinks) the player who owns that 
KC gains Victory points equal to one-half the accumulated Notoriety 
Points of the late Pirate, rounded down. The Pirate gains VPs equal to 
all his accumulated Notoriety Points, but he gets no VPs for his Net 
Worth (nor does the KC). See 18.12.
(10.37) KCs may not attack a Pirate when the latter is In-Port, except 
optionally when the Pirate is in a Pirate port (see 10.4). In non-Pirate 
Ports, the KC may try to Oust a Pirate, which is different; see 10.5. 
This is all part of the player’s Anti-Pirate Action.
(10.38) Pirates may not attack KCs.
Example of KC vs. Pirate Attack
It is David’s Player-Turn. He plays a 2-Action card and announces 
a Find Merchant Ship Action for his Pirate, Charles Vane, whose 
Schooner has a current Speed rating of 2 and a current Combat rat-
ing of 6. As soon as David he announces this Pirate Action, Helen 
announces a KC Reaction for her KC, Thomas Matthews, who has 
a Speed rating of 3 and a Combat rating of 11 (which becomes 13 
with the Living Rules). Matthews is in the same Sea Area as Vane, 
so the KC Reaction is possible, although Matthews could also have 
moved from an adjacent Sea Area and attempted the attack as well, 
albeit with slightly less chance of success (10.32). 
Vane now has to choose whether to stay and fight, or to attempt 
to escape. He attempts to escape, so Matthews tries to prevent the 
escape by intercepting. Matthews rolls a 5 for Interception, adding 
his speed of 3, for a total of 8. Vane rolls a 4, adding his speed of 
2, for a total of 6. The Interception has succeeded. Vane doesn’t 
have a Letter of Marque, so he cannot surrender to Maynard. He 
must fight. He rolls a 4 for combat, adding his Ability rating of 4 
and his ship’s Combat rating of 6. His total is 14. Matthews rolls 
a 1, to which he adds his Combat rating of 11 and 2 more for the 
2.4 recommendation—a total of 14. This is the same as Vane’s roll, 
so Vane is eliminated; place his counter in the Davy Jones’ Locker 
box on the map. David immediately receives Victory Points equal to 
Vane’s final Notoriety Points total (but he loses Vane’s Net Worth). 
Helen immediately receives Victory Points equal to half of Vane’s 
final Notoriety Points total. 
Had Matthews failed to Intercept, and then if Vane had performed 
another relevant Pirate Action (from 10.23) in the same Player-Turn, 
Helen could have activated Matthews for a KC Rection against 
Vane (10.32).

10.4 KC ACTIONS
KCs anywhere on the map, whether or not in the same or an adjacent 
Sea Area to a Pirate, may do one of the following at any time during 
any Pirate’s Action, but only as the one KC AP Action for that AP Player 
for that Player-Turn:
Move
—per 7.1 and 7.2, except that the KC, not a Pirate, moves;
Attack a Pirate Port
—as per 10.41;
Oust Pirates from a Port
—as per 10.42.
Although this KC Action counts as the AP Action type for that player 
in the current Player Turn (he may not play other AP Action types 
during this Player Turn), his KC may still conduct KC Reaction if 
the situation presents itself (KC Reaction does not count as an AP 
Action—see 10.3). 
Example: If an AP Player attempts to Oust a Pirate (an AP Action), or 
attacks a Pirate in a Pirate Port (an AP Action), and the Pirate then 
leaves the port, the Pirate is still is subject to the KC Reaction rules. The 
same is true if a KC’s Move action (an AP action) places it in or adjacent 
to a Sea Area containing a Pirate; the instant that Pirate performs any 
of the actions listed in 10.32, he is subject to KC Reaction.
(10.41) Attacking Pirate Ports: A KC may try to close down the three 
Pirate Ports by attacking them. To do this, a KC must already be in the 
Sea Area adjoining the Pirate Port. The KC Player uses an AP Action, 
at any time during any Pirate’s Player-Turn, to perform the attack. The 
KC rolls a die and, to the result, adds his Combat rating. Then each 
Pirate currently in that Port does the same, using his Ship’s Combat 
rating (the Pirate does not add his Ability rating to this roll): 
If the KC’s total is the same as or lower than any (even just one) of 
the Pirates’ totals, the KC has been repulsed and nothing happens 
to the Port. The KC remains in the Sea Area and the Pirates remain 
in the Port.
If the KC’s total is higher than every one of the Pirates’ totals, all 
Pirates in that port are immediately placed in the Sea Area and each 
suffers one Combat Damage Hit to his Ship. The KC remains in the 
Sea Area. The Pirate Port is Destroyed and useless for the rest of the 
game. Place a “Port Destroyed” marker on it.
If there are no Pirates in the Port when the KC attacks, the Port is 
automatically Destroyed and useless for the rest of the game. Place 
a “Port Destroyed” marker on it.
(10.42) Ousting Pirates from Ports: A Player whose KC is in the Sea 
Area adjoining a Port containing a Pirate who announces or is currently 
undergoing any Pirate Action possible in a Port may attempt to Oust the 
Pirate from that Port. The Governor or Port Status does not matter (not 
even Safe Haven status matters), although Ousting may not be attempted 
against Pirates in Pirate Ports (see 10.4 for how KCs deal with Pirate 
Ports). Ousting a Pirate forces the Pirate (and any other Pirates in that 
Port as well at that time), to leave the port; place the Pirate counter(s) 
in the adjoining Sea Area. The Port itself is not affected.
To Oust, the KC player rolls a die and adds his Combat Rating to the 
result. Then, the Pirate Player rolls a die and, to the result, adds the 
sum of the Combat ratings of all the Pirates’ Ships in that Port—the 
Ability ratings are not used. Note that Ousting uses a different method 
from that of attacking Pirate Ports in 10.4: 
If the KC’s total is higher, all the Pirates in that port are immediately 
placed in the Sea Area and must discontinue any Actions they were 
undertaking (such as Refit, etc). The KC remains in the Sea Area.
If that KC’s total is the same as or lower, the Oust attempt fails, and 
each Pirate earns 1 Notoriety Point. The Pirates remain In-Port, while 
the KC remains in the Sea Area.
Placement of a new Anti-Pirate Governor in a port automatically Ousts 
all Pirates in that port (see 9.2 and 17.0). However, Pirates do not gain 
Notoriety Points in such cases.
10.5 KCs AND VICTORY POINTS
If a KC eliminates a Pirate:
KC’s Player earns Victory Points equal to half the Notoriety 
Points (rounding down) that Pirate has accumulated at the time of 
his demise; AND 
Pirate’s Player gets VPs equal to all the Pirate’s accumulated 
Notoriety Points, as per 18.12. 
Neither
 the KC nor the Pirate gain VPs from the Pirate’s accumulated 
Net Worth (which is simply lost).
Example: Tom is controlling the KC William Rhett; Sally is controlling 
the Pirate Stede Bonnet. Bonnet currently has 23 Notoriety Points and 
a Net Worth of 3850 Doubloons. Rhett attacks Bonnet and eliminates 
him. Orlando gets 12 Victory Points (half of Bonnet’s 23 Notoriety 
Points rounded up); Sally gets 23 Victory Points. The attack has been 
extremely worthwhile from Tom’s perspective, because not only has 
he gained 12 VP, he has also prevented Sally from getting any VPs at 
all from Bonnet’s considerable Net Worth total.
11 PIRATE ALLIANCES
(11.1) If a Pirate Player has more than one Pirate currently in the same 
Port, he may, by declaring a Pirate Alliance Action for either Pirate, 
have those two Pirates form an Alliance. In a 4-player or 5-player game, 
this means both of his currently deployed Pirates; in a 3-player or 2-
player game, where Players may have more than two Pirates deployed, 
only two may form an Alliance at any one time. 
(11.2) When two Pirates are Allied they may move and undertake Ac-
tions as one. They must stay together at all times (in the same Sea Area 
or in the same Port). When undertaking Actions:
When the Pirate Alliance activates, the Pirate with the highest current 
Notoriety Point level is considered the Active Pirate.
If a Ship Combat Rating is needed, use the higher of the two ships, 
plus both Pirates’ Ability ratings (add them together), to reflect 
multiple ships. 
If a Ship Speed Rating is needed, use the lower of the two current 
Speed ratings. 
If Pirate Ratings are needed (such as Ability, etc.), the Player may 
use whichever Pirate’s Rating he wishes.
(11.3) Booty and Notoriety Points are split equally between the two 
Pirates. The Pirate with the higher Leadership Rating gets any over-
age on division. Increases and decreases in Crew Loyalty are applied 
to both ships, in full. 
(11.4) Ship Combat Damage is divided evenly, with any overage 
decided by the player. But Speed Damage applies to each ship, even 
though the benefits of Refit will be split by both. Scurvy will apply to 
both crews/ships, in full.
(11.5) Letters of Marque may not be given to any Pirate during the 
life of the Alliance. Letters previously held cannot be used until the 
Alliance is broken.
(11.6) The Alliance is broken either voluntarily by the player, who 
simply announces such when it is his turn, or:
Debauchery & Revelry card against the Pirates when 
they are In Port. That card automatically dissolves the alliance, and 
then the D&R card is resolved for each Pirate, separately; OR
Mutiny Conspiracy card, which is resolved for each 
Pirate. If any Mutiny actually occurs, the Alliance is instantly bro-
ken.
(11.7) All other decisions about the Alliance are made by the Player 
owning the two Pirates. 

12 PIRATE CUNNING AND LUCK
Each Pirate is rated for his Cunning (which also covers Luck), which 
is the number of times during the entire game that he may use such 
ability. Pirates use Cunning in the following two ways:
Each Cunning Point allows the Pirate to reroll, whenever he wishes, 
any one 1d6, 2d6 or 3d6 roll (of any kind) made by that Pirate—but 
not (a) individual dice within a dice-roll, (b) D66 rolls (c) a die-roll 
that has already been the recipient of Cunning. A Pirate’s Cunning 
Rating represents the total number of times during the entire game that 
he may do this. When a Pirate uses Cunning in this manner, reduce 
the total on the Cunning track on his Pirate Display. 
One Cunning Point also allows a player to play the “Skull & Cross-
bones” Event card on his behalf; see 17.0.
Play Note: Gamers who dislike re-roll mechanics in games as a matter 
of course should feel free to ignore the Cunning system entirely. 
13 DEBAUCHERY AND REVELRY
Debauchery & Revelry represents Pirates taking a bit of rather intense 
R&R after a period of hard campaigning.
13.1 HOW D&R OCCURS
(13.11) D&R occurs at the following occasions. D&R may occur vol-
untarily or automatically:	
The Pirate captain declares D&R after he has taken a Merchant Ship’s 
cargo as part of a Loot Merchant Ship Action. This is voluntary.
While In-Port, a Pirate may allow his crew to engage in D&R as part 
of an In-Port Activities Action. This is voluntary.
While in a Pirate Port, converting Booty to Net Worth incurs auto-
matic D&R. This is involuntary.
Sacking a Port (9.55) incurs automatic D&R. This is 
involuntary.
Debauchery & Revelry AP Event Card against a Pirate. 
This is involuntary.
(13.12) D&R is not a separate Action. It is part of the Action being 
undertaken that produces the D&R. However, D&R is always applied 
after the other parts of that Action are finished. 
Involuntary
(13.13) Any time a Ship undergoes Voluntary D&R, place 
a D&R marker—front side up—atop that Pirate on the 
map. If the Pirate undergoes Involuntary D&R, place the 
marker back-side up. A Pirate already with a D&R marker 
cannot acquire another D&R marker.
13.2 THE EFFECTS OF D&R
(13.21) D&R increases Crew Loyalty, as per the Crew Loyalty Table; 
the increase is applied immediately after D&R is declared. Note that 
D&R in Pirate Ports increases Loyalty much more than D&R in non-
Pirate Ports or D&R after looting merchants or sacking ports.
(13.22) The only two Actions available to a Pirate bearing a D&R 
marker are Movement (7.0)—including movement into port if desires, 
and even into a Pirate Port to increase the D&R benefits)—and D&R 
Recovery (16.0). D&R Recovery can occur only In-Port (13.24). 
(13.23) If a Pirate with a D&R marker is attacked while at sea, subtract 
two (–2) from its Speed and Combat Ratings.
(13.24) A Pirate undergoing Voluntary D&R removes the D&R 
marker by spending one D&R Recovery Action while In-Port. A Pirate 
undergoing Involuntary D&R removes the D&R marker by doing two 
consecutive Recovery actions while In-Port.
14 MUTINY
(14.1) A Mutiny occurs in one of three ways:
It may 
possibly occur by play of a Mutiny Conspiracy Event Card 
(see 17.2). The AP Player playing the card rolls 2d6; if the result is 
higher than the active Pirate’s current Crew Loyalty level, a Mutiny 
has occurred.
It may 
possibly occur by play of a Piratical Ambition Event Card (see 
17.2). The AP Player playing the card uses one of his In-Hand Pirates 
to lead a Mutiny, dueling the active Pirate for control of the ship.
It 
automatically occurs the instant a ship’s Crew Loyalty Level 
reaches 0. If a ship’s Crew Loyalty stays at 0 without a Mutiny hav-
ing any effect (points 2 and 3 below), the crew mutinies again each 
time that same Pirate is activated (and before performing any other 
Actions), until the Crew Loyalty Level is raised above 0. 
(14.2) When a Mutiny occurs (from either method above), the Pirate 
Player rolls a die and compare it to the Pirate’s Leadership Rating:
If the result is higher than the Leadership Rating, the Mutiny is suc-
cessful and the Pirate is permanently out of the game (he’s been ma-
rooned and considered eliminated—see 18.12B to calculate Victory 
Points). If that Player has another Pirate Card in Hand he immediately 
places the new Pirate in charge of that Ship (and everything on it ex-
cept Net Worth, Notoriety, and Cunning markers, which are removed) 
with a new Crew Loyalty of 6; Combat and Speed ratings remain as 
they are. If that Player has no Pirate in Hand for the replacement, he 
immediately draws a new Pirate Card one from the top of the Pirate 
deck. If there are no Pirate Cards left, the Ship is lost. 
If the dieroll is the same as his Leadership, the Pirate has quashed the 
mutiny. Crew Loyalty is lowered by 1, but never below 0. If already at 
0, it remains at 0, which means that (as per 14.1), the Pirate is subject 
to another Mutiny as soon as he activates the next time.
If the dieroll is lower than his Leadership, the Pirate has quashed the 
mutiny and nothing else happens.
15 DUELS
(15.1) Duels occur when a Piratical Ambition AP Event Card is played 
(see 17.2) or a Booty Grab attempt fails (see 9.6). Each Pirate rolls a 
number of dice equal to his Duel rating, totaling them. The higher total 
wins the Duel. 
In the case of the play of a 
Piratical Ambition Card, if the new Pirate 
wins the Duel, he takes over the Ship and everything on it, except 
for the Net Worth and the Notoriety and Cunning markers, which are 
removed (but see 15.2). The original Pirate is eliminated; see 18.12B 
to calculate his Victory Points. Low total is dead. If the new Pirate 
loses the Duel, he is permanently out of the game (and therefore never 
gets into the game at all) but nothing else happens. If the result is a 
Tie, undertake the Duel again until a winner is determined.
In the case of a failed Booty Grab, if the Booty-Grabbing Pirate 
wins the Duel, he eliminates the other Pirate (see 18.12B to calculate 
Victory Points for the dead Pirate’s Player) and takes as many of the 
victim’s possessions as he wishes (but not Net Worth). For Booty, he 
increases one of his own Holds by the captured amount. Everything 
else, including Hostages and Port Information, Letters of Marque, 
etc., he simply transfers to his own Ship. Alternatively, he may replace 
his Ship with the victim’s, transferring everything (including his own 
Net Worth) to his new Ship. In the case of a tied Duel in this case, 
it continues only if both Players want it to do so. If not, the Booty 
Grab Action is over and both Pirates remain In-Port.
(15.2) The winner of the Duel earns Notoriety Points equal to the sum 
of the two dueling Pirates’ Duel ratings. In the case of a new Pirate, 
this total becomes his starting Notoriety Point level.

16 RECOVERY VS. REFIT
D&R Recovery is an Action that takes place In Port but is not part of 
other In Port Actions. The D&R Recovery Action removes all D&R 
markers. It does not Refit the ship (see 9.45 for Refit).
17 EVENT CARDS
Blackbeard is driven by Event Cards. Event Cards are drawn from the 
Event Deck in the initial set-up of the game and then, throughout the 
game, in the Card Draw Phase of a Player’s Turn, as per 4.4. 
17.1 USING EVENT CARDS
(17.11) Events cards have some or all of the following Information:
An Event that may be enacted by the play of the Card, as explained 
and specified in the text of the Card and more fully in the Event 
description in 17.2;
An Actions circle showing the number of Actions the player’s Pirates 
may undertake when that Card is played, expressed either as a number 
of Actions in the Actions circle; OR as a diamond-shaped icon, cor-
responding to the icon for the Initiative rating on the Pirate Cards; 
OR as dash, denoting that the Cards may not be used for Actions;
A line indicating if the card can be played for Actions AND the Event, 
or Actions OR the Event. “Must Play Immediately” cards have a blank 
line (because Actions are not possible with them); 
An icon at top right identifying certain Cards as Anti-Pirate Cards;
A line of information specifying whether that Card must be played 
immediately or may be held In Hand for later play;
An asterisk (in some cases), which tells Players to consult 17.2 for 
the full and official description of the Event (if the asterisk is after 
the card’s Event description), or the Timing and Effect section of the 
Event description (if the asterisk is on the lower bar of the Card). 
(17.12) When playing an “Actions AND Event” card, the pirate must 
conduct both the Event and the 1 Action listed on the card. This is con-
sidered the Pirate Player’s Action card for that player-turn; he may not 
play another for Actions (even if he decides not to actually do anything 
with the 1 Action mandated by the card). He may split the card between 
two Pirates (with one performing the Event and the other the Action). 
Or he may have one Pirate perform both the Event and the Action. One 
“Actions AND Event” card, Fair Winds, may include the player’s KC 
as one of the card’s users; see the description of that card below.
(17.13) If the Event Card is to be played for Actions OR Event, then 
the player may either undertake that many Actions or use the card for 
its Event. 
(17.14) Only one Event Card per Player-Turn may be used for Actions 
(except in the case covered in 4.55); any other Event Card(s) played 
by that Player in that Player-Turn may be used only for the Event. The 
Event Card played for Actions does not have to be the first card played, 
and a Player does not have to use all (or even any) of its Actions. How-
ever, at least one “Hold Until Played” Event Card must be played by 
that Player during his Player Turn.
(17.15) “Must Play Immediately” Event cards do not have any Actions 
on them (they show a dash in the Actions circle); they may not be used 
for that purpose. The Player drawing such a card must play it for its 
Event immediately.
(17.16) Anti-Pirate Cards played for the Event may not be used for the 
number of Actions listed; they are always “Actions OR Event” cards. 
(17.17) Each Event Card has a number at top center; this is simply for 
reference purposes. In most cases, more than one of each numbered 
Card is in the deck to start the game.
17.2 THE EVENTS
The titles below correspond to the titles on the Event Cards. The number 
in brackets [#] indicates the number of identical cards in the game. The 
italicized lines below the titles indicate if the card is an Anti-Pirate Card, 
how many Actions it is worth (if any), whether or not it is an “Action 
AND Event” card or an “Actions OR Event” card, and whether the 
card must be played immediately or if it may be held In Hand for later 
play. The description specifies how to use the card, and in all cases is 
the official description (rather than the text on the card itself, which 
is often an abbreviated version of the description). Some descriptions 
contains a further section called “Timing and Effect”, providing further 
direction as to its use. The cards are listed in alphabetical order.
#1
Buried Treasure [1] 
This card provides the player with a Treasure Map of the Isle of Pines 
(below Cuba; see map). The Player plays the card by placing it in front 
of him. The card remains there until he visits the Isle of Pines, after 
which he discards it; he may in fact decide never to visit (in which case 
buried treasure is never found), but the card is his to use if and when he 
does. He spends one Action to move onto the island (this is not a move 
into a port and so can have no Port-oriented AP Events played against 
it—nor may the Pirate be attacked there as if he were in a Port) and, as 
part of the same Action, digs for buried treasure. To do so, roll a die; 
on a 1–2, the Pirate has found nothing and the card is discarded. On a 
3–6, the Pirate has found something: roll 3d6 and multiply the result 
by 100. That is how many Doubloons worth of treasure he has found 
(e.g., a result of 16” would produce 1600 doubloons); this treasure is 
added to any one of his Holds. If the Pirate Retires or is Eliminated 
while this card is front of the player, the card is placed in the Discard 
pile (i.e., it belongs to that Pirate, not to the player).
#2
Debauchery & Revelry [6] 
This may be played against any one Pirate (but not the Player’s own) 
currently In-Port. That Pirate has lost control of his crew and they’re 
off “like sailors on leave”, for a spot of D&R (considered Involuntary). 
See 13.23.
Timing and Effect: The card is played after that Pirate has completed 
his Action while In-Port. A D&R card may not be played against a 
Pirate who already has a D&R marker.
“Must Play Immediately” 
“Hold in Hand” Card
Anti-Pirate 
Card Icon
Card Title
Actions 
Circle
Actions AND
 or Actions OR 
Indicator
Event 
Description
Pointer to full 
write-up of the 
card in 17.2 
Card Number

#3
Disease [2] 
An outbreak of some virulent disease strikes a Port. Roll D66 to find 
out which Port. All Governors, Pirates, and/or Hostages in that Port die 
(the Pirate is considered Eliminated for the purposes of Victory Point 
assessment—18.12B. There is no other effect. 
#4
Double Cross [4] 
Anti Pirate Card
Actions (Initiative Rating) OR Event
This card may be played against any Pirate who is, at this instant, using 
a Letter of Marque to Retire. The AP Player rolls a die and follows the 
result in the table below:
Roll
1–2
Insufficient evidence to detain or convict. Pirate may 
Retire gracefully.
3–4
Put on trial. Roll 2d6. That number times ten (x10) is the 
% of the defendant Pirate’s Net Worth he must pay to be 
acquitted (rounded up). Treat a 10–12 as 100% (in which 
case he may as well get hanged).
5–6
Tried, convicted and Hanged. Loses all Net Worth (but 
not Notoriety).
Timing and Effect: The card is played the instant a Pirate states he is 
using his Letter to Retire and the effect is applied prior to his Retirement. 
This card can be played in addition to activation of a KC, if a Player 
tries to retire by playing a Letter of Marque to avoid combat with a KC 
(i.e. in exception to the restriction against playing more than one AP 
Card in a Player-Turn). Once a Double Cross card is played, a Pirate 
may not change his mind about Retiring.
#5
European Turmoil [2] 
Bad times, possible war … the usual…back in Europe. All KCs and 
Warships in play are removed and their counters placed back into their 
respective pools. 
#6
Fair Winds [3] 
Strong winds increase a Pirate’s or KC’s Movement Capabilities. The 
player may move one of his own Pirates or his KC instantly to any 
Sea Area on the map, no matter how far away. A Player may split the 
use of this card between two Pirates—with one performing the Event 
and the other the Action. The Player may also split it between his KC 
and a Pirate if he wishes, with the KC performing the Event and the 
Pirate the Action. 
#7
Finger of Fate [1] 
The Fickle Finger of Fate oft changes many a plan. When this card is 
played, each player must immediately discard one (1) card from his 
hand (if he has any); the discards are placed in the Discard pile. After 
each player has done this, each then passes his remaining cards (if he 
has any) to the player to his left. 
#8
General Pardon [1] 
(See 4.1 if playing the Long Game.) This card gets to be played three 
times during the course of the game, being reshuffled into the deck 
after the first two times.
The first time this is played it has no effect but is placed back into 
the Events Deck, which is reshuffled (but do not include the cards 
in the Discard Pile). If this card was the last to be drwan, however, 
the game is instantly over.
The second time signals a General Pardon being issued to all Pirates 
that are on the map when the card is played. The Pardon lasts until the 
Player who played this card completes his next Player-Turn. While 
the card is in force, every Pirate who moves into an English Port is 
Pardoned and is Retired (Retirement is mandatory)—after converting 
Booty (if any) to Net Worth—as per 18.12A. Moving into the Port 
is the Action that will effect Retirement; the Pirate does not need 
an additional Action to do so; no Pirate may Attack an English Port 
while the Pardon is in effect. The General Pardon card is now held 
out of the Events Deck until there are 20 cards remaining, at which 
point it is placed back into that Deck and the Deck reshuffled (but do 
not include the cards in the Discard Pile). If there are already only 
20 unused cards or fewer remaining, shuffle the General Pardon 
card with them and continue. If this was the last card to be drawn, 
the game is instantly over.
The third time the card is pulled the game is instantly over. Determine 
the winner (see 18.0).
Play Note: Players who are worried the third time may occur too early 
may agree to split the remaining deck in half, before reshuffling after the 
cards’s second use, placing the card in the bottom half and reshuffling 
that portion, leaving it as the bottom half. Just a suggestion.
#9 
New Governors [8] 
Roll D66 twice, consulting the Port Locator number corresponding to 
each of those results: Place a new Anti-Pirate Governor in each of those 
Ports (you can use any remaining Governor counter you want; they’re 
all Anti-Pirate. If there is already a Governor there, whether Pro-Pirate 
or Anti-Pirate, he is removed (permanently) and replaced by this new 
one. If the roll points to a Pirate Port, roll again. Pirates are automati-
cally Ousted from Ports in which Anti-Pirate Governors appear. Note: 
in the Solitaire version (19.0), only one Governor is placed with each 
New Governors card.

#10
Heavy Guns [4]
By playing this card for one of his own In-Port Pirates, the Pirate gains 
heavy cannon for his Ship. From that point on for the life of that Ship, 
the Pirate adds two (+2) to his ship’s Combat dierolls. If the Pirate 
subsequently converts a Merchant Ship to his own use, the Heavy Guns 
transfer to the new Ship. Only one Heavy Guns card may be played per 
Ship; slide the Heavy Guns card under the Pirate Display (so that part 
of the card is showing) to indicate that the ship has them. 
#11
KC Surprise [2] 
This card may be played immediately after any Anti-Pirate Player uses a 
Warship Sighting Card to attempt to Attack a Pirate (as per 6.4), and not 
necessarily by the same AP Player. The Player playing the KC Surprise 
card must not already have a KC (because no player may have more 
than one KC in play at any given time). When this card is played the 
Warship in question turns out to be a King’s Commissioner, which the 
Player playing the card chooses as per 10.11, but without the need for 
the Notoriety dieroll (the card’s event has no effect if no KCs remain 
unplayed in the game). The attack against the targeted Pirate now pro-
ceeds immediately as an attack by the KC (who must still Intercept 
it first) nnot the Warship (the Warship counter is placed back in the 
Warship pool), and the KC now belongs to the Player who played this 
card. Note: this is an exception to being able to play only one AP Event 
card per Player-Turn and one AP Event card type per Action, since this 
card may be played with a Warship Card by the same Player.
#12
Letter of Marque [4] 
This card may be assigned to a Pirate, belonging to the Pirate Player, 
who is In a Port with a Pro-Pirate Governor. The Letter of Marque 
entitles that Pirate to do the following:
Treat every other Port of the same Nationality as this Port as a Pro-
Pirate Governor port, regardless of the type of Governor actually in 
that Port; place an appropriate Nationality marker in the “Letter of 
Marque” box on the Pirate Display; OR
Retire (see 18.4) without any ill effect … unless someone plays a 
Double Cross card (see above).
Surrender to a KC and Retire (see 10.34 and 18.41B).
The Letter is specific to the Pirate and, if that Pirate is no longer in the 
game, neither is the Letter. No Pirate may have more than one Letter 
of Marque at any one time. After use, a Letter of Marque card is 
never returned to the deck, even if the Pirate is eliminated—and even 
if playing the Long Game option.
Timing and Effect: The card is played during a Pirate’s In-Port Activity 
Action, and is part of that Action.
#13
Local Resistance [3] 
The citizens of a Port are unhappy with so much Pirate presence, 
probably because of a Pro-Pirate Governor, and they take a variety of 
Actions to change that. The player designates a specific Port (but not a 
Pirate port) that has a Pro-Pirate Governor, and rolls a die. If the result 
is higher than the port’s Value, permanently remove the Pro-Pirate 
Governor (no replacement at this time). All Pirates in that Port are 
immediately Ousted; see 10.52. Otherwise, no effect. This card may 
be held In Hand.
Timing and Effect: The card is played any time during another Player’s 
Pirate Turn.
#14
Mal de Mer [1] 
The Player who draws this card loses his Player-Turn—all his Pirates 
are seasick—although he must still draw Event Cards to fill his hand 
as required. 
#15
Mutiny Conspiracy [6] 
This Event is played against the active Pirate. The card player rolls 
2d6. If the result is higher than the Crew Loyalty Level, a Mutiny has 
occurred. See 14.0 for results. 
Timing and Effect: The card is played at any time during a Pirate’s 
Action. It is resolved the instant it is played, before anything else can 
be undertaken.
#16
Pirate Converts [1] 
3 Actions OR Event 
The Player playing this may deploy, as an Anti-Pirate Action, any one 
Pirate that has successfully Retired—one of his own or another Player’s. 
That Pirate is now a King’s Commissioner, under control of the Player 
who played the card, with a Combat Rating of 9 and a Speed of 3. Use 
the “Ex-Pirate” KC counter to represent this new KC on the map. Each 
Player may have only one KC at any one time, so this card may not be 
played by a Player who already has a KC in the game.

#17
Piratical Ambition [5]
This event is played against the active Pirate. It may be played only by 
a player who has a Pirate Card in his hand (not yet in play) and does 
not already have his maximum number of Pirates in play. The player 
playing this card uses his In-Hand Pirate to fight a Duel—see 15.0 for 
resolving this Duel and then do one of the following:
If the In-Hand Pirate wins the Duel, the Pirate who is the target of the 
takeover has been the subject of a Mutiny led by the card-player’s Pi-
rate (the one In Hand). The active Pirate is marooned and considered 
eliminated, losing his Net Worth but not his Notoriety Points—see 
18.12B to calculate Victory Points for him. The new Pirate instantly 
takes over his Ship (and everything on it, but not his Net Worth or 
Notoriety or Cunning Points), and the Crew Loyalty is placed at 6.
If the In Hand Pirate loses the Duel this mutinous takeover has been 
aborted, the In-Hand Pirate is killed (and never gets into the game), 
and the active Pirate’s Crew Loyalty is increased by one. 
#18
Scurvy Outbreak [5] 
This card is played against an active Pirate who is not In-Port and who 
does not already possess a Scurvy marker. Place a Scurvy marker on 
that Pirate and decrease the Crew Loyalty level by one (which might 
trigger Mutiny as per the second bullet in 14.1). Any Hostage on board 
at the time dies immediately. Every time the Player who controls that 
Pirate Ship starts a Player-Turn, he further reduces the Crew Loyalty 
Level by one (but never below zero), until that Pirate enters Port, at 
which time the Scurvy marker is instantly removed. This card may be 
held In Hand.
Timing and Effect: The card is played at any time during a Pirate’s 
Action. It is resolved the instant it is played, before anything else can 
be undertaken.
#19
Skull and Crossbones [4] 
3 Actions OR Event 
Pirates often had a great deal of Luck to go with their sometimes for-
midable abilities. A player may play this card on behalf of his Pirate at 
any time, whether during his own Player-Turn or someone else’s, at the 
cost of one (1) of that Pirate’s Cunning Points (12.0). When played, it 
may be used for one of the following:
It negates any one card just played against him. That negated card 
is placed back in the deck, and the deck reshuffled (but without the 
cards in the Discard pile); OR
If the Pirate is the target of a Booty Grab (9.6), +2 to his dieroll.
Timing and Effect: The card is played the instant the card to negate 
is played, and before that card takes effect, or when the Pirate is the 
target of a Booty Grab.
#20
Storms at Sea [6] 
Roll D66 and consult the Port numbers on the map; the Storms affect 
the Sea Area adjoining that Port. In addition, if the Sea Area contains 
Transit Boxes, those Transit boxes are affected as well. Example: a 
D66 roll of 52 (for Whydah) produces a Storm in the Gold Coast Area 
and both Transit boxes.
Remove all Merchant Ships in that Sea Area, including any that have 
been found but not yet looted.
The player playing the card rolls 
2d6 for any Warship in that Area. 
If that result is higher than its Combat rating, remove the Warship. 
Otherwise, it remains On Station.
For each Pirate in that Area who is not In Port, the same player rolls 
a die, consulting the Storm Effects Table. Add one (+1) if the Pirate 
is in a Transit Box. Apply the results immediately. 
The same player rolls a die for each KC in the Sea Area. On a roll 
of 1–4, the KC is placed back in the KC pool; otherwise, it stays 
where it is. 
#21
Warship Sighting [10] 
The player playing this card places a Warship On Station and follows 
the rules in 6.4. This card may be held In Hand.
Timing and Effect: 6.4 describes when this card may be played. 
#22
Wear and Tear [7] 
This may be played against an active Pirate who is not In-Port. Roll 
a die and halve that number, rounding down (so a result of 1 = 0). 
Decrease that ship’s Speed rating by that result. This card may be held 
In Hand.
#23
Natural Disaster [1] 
A once a game event. Roll a die and consult the table below. The result 
is a Port destroyed totally by earthquake, hurricane, whatever. Everyone 
(Pirate, Hostage, Governor, etc.) currently in that Port dies. The Port 
is no longer usable (place a “Port Destroyed” marker on the Port), and 
this card is removed from the game—even if you are using the option 
to play through the deck twice. When the results have been applied, 
remove all Merchant Ships from the map (including any that have been 
found but not yet looted) and replace them as per 3.0 Step 8. 
Affected
Affected
Port O’ Spain
Isle de Tortuga

18 WINNING
18.1 VICTORY POINTS
(18.11) The instant the General Pardon card is played for the third 
time, the game is over. At that point, the player with the most Victory 
Points (VPs) wins. Victory Points are earned throughout the game as 
per 18.12, with the Players moving their respective Victory Point mark-
ers along Victory Point track on the map. If the VP total for a player 
moves beyond 100, flip the VP marker to its +100 side and start back 
at the beginning of the VP track.
(18.12) Each Pirate earns Victory Points for his Pirate’s accumulated 
Notoriety Points and Net Worth, and for having his KCs eliminate other 
Players’ Pirates. Victory Points are gained as follows—record them on 
the VP track at the instant they apply:
	When a Pirate successfully Retires (18.4), each accumulated Noto-
A.	
riety Point earns two VPs for the Pirate Player. Furthermore, every 
100 Doubloons of his accumulated Net Worth earns one VP (with 
fractions of 100 dropped). Note that VPs are earned for Net Worth 
only by Pirates who Retire; in every other instance in which a Pirate 
leaves the game, all Net Worth is lost. 
	 When a Pirate is Eliminated, or is still in play at game’s end (i.e., 
B.	
has not Retired), his Player gains one VP for each of the Pirate’s 
accumulated Notoriety Points but zero VP from his accumulated 
Net Worth. 
	When a KC eliminates a Pirate from the game, the Player control-
C.	
ling the KC gains one VP for every two of the Pirate’s accumulated 
Notoriety Points (with remainders dropped). The Pirate Player 
gains one VP for each of the Pirate’s accumulated Notoriety Points. 
Neither the KC’s Player nor the Pirate’s Player gains any VPs from 
the Pirate’s accumulated Net Worth.
18.2 NOTORIETY POINTS
Pirates earn Notoriety Points (NPs) in a variety of ways. Players keep 
track of their Pirates’ accumulated NP on their Notoriety Points track 
on the Pirate Display for each Pirate. Notoriety Points are earned ac-
cording to the Notoriety Points Table below:
Pirate Achievement
Notoriety Points Equal To:
Merchant Ship’s Cargo rating
Torture Hostage
Hostage’s Value rating
Successful Port Attack
Port’s Value rating x2
Successful Port Sack
Port’s Value rating x2
Defeat KC in Sea Battle
KC’s Combat rating x2
Defeat Warship in Battle
Warship’s Combat rating
Failed Oust Attempt by KC
1 Notoriety Point
Win a Duel
Sum of the two Pirates’ Duel ratings
18.3 NET WORTH
A Pirate’s Net Worth is turned into VPs only if he successfully Retires 
(18.4). Pirates earn a Player VPs equal to his Net Worth divided by 
100, with fractions dropped. Thus, a Pirate with 2350 Doubloons in 
Net Worth will earn 23 VP. If a Pirate is Eliminated, or if he fails to 
Retire before the end of the game, his Net Worth is lost. 
Historical Note: A Pirate ship was a combination of democracy and 
corporate capitalism. The Pirate captain earned a voted share usu-
ally commensurate with his status. Forget the buried treasure stories: 
these capitalists were not seeking long-term gain. Biggest retirement 
haul? The capture of the Portuguese East Indiaman, Nostra Senhore 
de Cabo, by Taylor and La Buse, which produced a roughly estimated 
400 million pounds of booty.
18.4 RETIREMENT
(18.41) In order to have his Net Worth used for Victory Points, and 
in order to capitalize most effectively on his accumulated Notoriety 
Points, a Pirate must Retire. The following methods may produce 
Retirement:
	
A.	 Retire Voluntarily: This separate Pirate Action requires that the 
Pirate is already In-Port, and that he already possesses a Letter of 
Marque (not just an Event card that would allow him to acquire 
one) for that port’s Nationality. This Action can be challenged and 
negated by another Player playing a Double Cross card as an Anti-
Pirate Action. 
	
B.	 Surrender during a KC attack and use a Letter of Marque, as 
per 10.33. As with “Retire Voluntarily”, the Letter of Marque must 
already be in the Pirate’s possession (the Nationality of the Letter 
of Marque doesn’t matter in this case). Use of a Double Cross card 
applies here, too. This Retirement is part of the KC Anti-Pirate Ac-
tion and not a Pirate Action (see 17.2 for playing a Double Cross 
card during the same Anti-Pirate Action as activating a KC).
	
C.	 As a Pirate Action in a Safe Haven:. If the Pirate is in one of his 
Safe Haven he may Retire simply by saying so. 
	
D.	 As a Pirate Action in a Pro-Pirate Port: If the Pirate is in a port 
with a Pro-Pirate Governor, but that Port is not a Safe Haven for that 
Pirate, he may attempt to retire by Bribing the Governor. Roll D66 
and multiply that number by 100. The result is the amount the Pirate 
must give the Governor in order to Retire; the funds must come his 
Net Worth, not from the Holds on his Ship. If he pays up, he Retires 
voluntarily. If he declines (because he doesn’t like the price), he 
stays in the game but incurs a decrease in his Crew Loyalty rating 
of one (–1), and he may not Bribe that particular Governor again. 
Place a “Governor Bribed” marker corresponding to that Governor 
in the “Governors Bribed” box on the Pirate Card.
	
E.	 Play of a General Pardon card: see 17.2.
(18.42) When a Pirate retires, everything he had, including his ship, 
leaves the game with him. Victory Points resulting from his accumulated 
Notoriety Points and Net Worth are recorded on the Victory Points 
track immediately.
Play Note: Why Retire? One of the questions that arose during playtest-
ing was “Why bother to have a Pirate retire when he can accumulate 
VP without bothering?” Well, for one, if your Pirate dies you lose all 
his Net Worth. And then, the more Notoriety a Pirate gains the more a 
target he becomes for a KC, whose player can gain half that Pirate’s 
NP as VP by killing him. 

19.0 Solitaire Blackbeard
The following rules allow Blackbeard to be played solitaire. Some of these 
rules modify the rules for the regular game—this is intentional.
(19.1) Description: There are two players: You, and the System Player. 
You control one Pirate, Blackbeard. Place the Blackbeard Pirate card on 
your Pirate Display; you may assign him either a Sloop or a Schooner. Your 
opponent, the System Player (SP) has three (3) Pirates on the map to start. 
Draw three Pirate Cards and place them on three separate Pirate Displays. 
Roll a die for each SP Pirate; on a 1–4, that Pirate has a Sloop; on a 5–6, 
that Pirate has a Schooner. Whenever an SP Pirate retires or is eliminated, 
draw another Pirate Card from the Pirate deck for the SP to use, until there 
are no more Pirates remaining or (more likely) the game ends. 
(19.2) General Game Play: The game plays somewhat differently from 
the main game. You play your Player-Turn, after which all three of the 
SP Pirates each get a Player-Turn. In other words, after you finish your 
Player-Turn, all three of the other Pirates get a player-turn before you get 
another one.
(19.3) Preparing the Decks: Begin the game by placing the “Must Play 
Immediately” Event cards and the “Hold Until Played” Event cards in 
separate decks, face-down. They remain in separate decks throughout the 
entire game. Remove the Finger of Fate card from the game. In addition, 
remove the Piratical Ambition cards from the game; there are no Duels in 
Solitaire Blackbeard (including duels that result in the regular game from 
Booty Grab attempts). 
(19.4) Placing the Merchant Ships: Place 10 Merchant Ships on the map, 
as per the normal placement routine (3.0 Step 8). In each of Blackbeard’s 
Merchant Shipping Phases, if the Merchant Ship total is below 8, place 
enough Merchants to bring it to 8. Each Storms at Sea event (including 
those that occur in 19.11 below) replenishes the total to 10.
(19.5) Placing the Governors: Next, place the 8 Pro-Pirate Governors 
randomly, using the Port Locator numbers to determine which Port they’re 
placed on. 
(19.6) Deploying Blackbeard: Place Blackbeard’s counter in the Sea Area 
that contains the largest number of Merchant Ships (as determined during 
initial placement). If there’s a tie, he begins in the Area that would gain 
him the highest number of Doubloons if he looted a Merchant there and 
rolled a 1 (see the Cargo Table). If still tied, it’s your choice, but he has to 
go in an Area that contains at least one Merchant Ship. 
(19.7) Deploying the System Player’s Pirates: After placing Blackbeard, 
place the three SP Pirate counters. Roll D66 for each in turn and place it 
in the Sea Area adjoining to the Port Locator number indicated on the 
dice-roll. Only one Pirate may start the game in any given Sea Area; if the 
Port Locator roll places them in an Area with another Pirate (including 
Blackbeard), roll again. 
(19.8) Starting the Game: The game begins with you drawing four “Hold 
Until Played” cards into your hand and then playing the first card. After 
your Player-Turn, all three of SP Pirates each get a Player-Turn. Then it 
comes back to you—and so on.
(19.9) Ending the Game: The game ends when one of the following oc-
curs:
Blackbeard successfully Retires with at least 130 Victory Points; 
Blackbeard is killed;
The instant the SP has acquired at least 100 VPs from all his Pirates 
combined; 
The instant all SP Pirates are eliminated and no more are available in 
the Pirate Deck;
General Pardon card is drawn from the “Hold in Hand” deck (see 
19.10) for the third time.
(19.10) The General Pardon Card: When the General Pardon card is 
drawn for the first time from the “Must Play Immediately” deck, noth-
ing happens in the game, but you immediately shuffle this card into the 
remaining “Hold Until Played” deck along with all “Hold Until Played” 
discards. From that point on, General Pardon functions exactly as in 17.2 
of the rules.
(19.11) Playing your Hand: You have a normal hand, except that you have 
no extra Pirate cards. When you play a card, you do so normally, using either 
the Actions or the Event or (when available) both. You may also launch 
Anti-Pirate Actions normally against the other Pirates (except that you get 
one AP Action for each SP Pirate). You never draw cards from the “Must 
Play Immediately” deck; only the SP draws these cards (see 19.11).
(19.12) Playing the SP’s Cards: The SP Player does not have a “hand”. 
Instead, for his Player-Turn each of his Pirates, in turn, first draws a “Must 
Play Immediately” card and plays it, and after that he draws and plays a 
“May Be Held” card (so each SP Pirate draws one card from each deck on 
each of his Player-Turns). If the “Must Play Immediately” deck runs out, 
reshuffle it and place it face down in order to keep going.
(19.13) Anti-Pirate Actions: Every time you perform an Action with 
Blackbeard, you must stop to see if an Anti-Pirate Action occurs. If there is 
a Warship or KC on the map and Blackbeard conducts an action that would 
trigger Warship or KC activity, the Warship or KC activity automatically 
occurs. Otherwise, on behalf of the SP, draw the top card from the “May Be 
Held” pile; if you draw a card that contains an Anti-Pirate Action, perform 
that Action against Blackbeard if possible. The Event card is then placed 
on the Discard Pile. If you draw a Warship Sighting card for the SP when 
Blackbeard is not performing an Action that triggers a Warship response, 
simply place the Warship On Station in Blackbeard’s current Sea Area.
(19.14) Notoriety Trigger: As soon as Blackbeard’s Notoriety reaches 12, 
the first SP in each Player-Turn thereafter will use his Anti-Pirate Action 
to attempt to deploy a KC, placing it in the Sea Area in which Blackbeard 
is currently located. Once a KC is on the map, the SP who deployed the 
KC will, in each Player-Turn in which the situation is appropriate, attempt 
to intercept Blackbeard and engage him in Combat. KCs belonging to SPs 
have no other function; Blackbeard may place and use KCs normally.
(19.15) Blackbeard and KCs: Blackbeard may not Surrender to a KC; he 
may Retire only by entering a Port and using a Letter of Marque. He may 
not use methods 18.4B, 18.4C, 18.4D, or 18.4E in order to Retire.
(19.16) Blackbeard and Mutiny: Blackbeard never dies from Mutiny. 
Instead, if the roll is higher than his Leadership rating, his Crew Loyalty is 
reduced by 3. If the roll is the same as the Leadership rating, Crew Loyalty 
is reduced by 2. If lower, there is no effect.
(19.17) SP Pirate Goals: Each SP Pirate will use his Actions for the greatest 
possible gain to himself OR the greatest possible damage to Blackbeard. 
Use the game rules in the best way possible to fulfill these two goals. 
(19.18) SPs and Letters of Marque: If an SP draws a Letter of Marque 
card, he must expend all possible subsequent Actions to sail directly for 
the closest port with a Pro-Pirate Governor (closest is defined as requiring 
the fewest Actions to reach). To begin this movement, he keeps the Letter 
of Marque card and immediately draws another, using the Actions on the 
new card to Move in the direction of the Port. Once he has reached the Pro-
Pirate port, he enters port and uses the Letter of Marque card to acquire a 
Letter of Marque, and continues his regular VP-acquiring missions. From 
that point on (and possibly immediately), once his Net Worth and Notoriety 
Points reach the point where, if he were to Retire in a port for which he has 
a Letter of Marque, he would gain at least 30 VP, he sails immediately 
for such a Port and commences the Retirement process. 
(19.19) SPs and D&R: In a situation where, in the standard game, a 
Pirate would have the option of voluntarily using D&R, an SP Pirate 
will automatically do so. Otherwise, D&R for SPs is considered in-
voluntary.
(19.20) Crew Loyalty: If Blackbeard’s Crew Loyalty reaches zero, he 
loses 2d6 worth of Notoriety Points immediately and another 1d6 worth 
at the end of every one of his Player-Turns (not Actions) in which he 
does not reaise the level above zero.

20 Pirate BIOGRAPHIES
“Long Ben” Avery got his start in 1694 as first mate aboard a 
privateer hired out to the Spanish to combat French Pirates near 
Martinique. They mutinied, turned Pirate, and headed for the Red 
Sea. His great coup came in August 1695 when his 46-gun Fancy 
with a crew of 160 took the Great Mogul’s 60-gun treasure ship 
Gang-I-Sawai which was defended by 500 musketeers. The Mogul 
claimed losses of 600,000 pounds for which he held the British East 
India Company responsible. The resulting uproar branded Avery 
both a criminal and a folk hero for life. On the one hand he was the 
subject of a popular play, while on the other he was specifically 
excluded from numerous King’s pardons. After trying unsuccessfully 
to buy pardons, he went into hiding. Although many of his men were 
caught Avery eluded the noose. He is however said to have been 
blackmailed and swindled of his wealth by those who would have 
exposed him to the law.
Highly successful at capturing merchants, and nicknamed “Black 
Bellamy” for his long black hair, Bellamy apprenticed with Benjamin 
Hornigold, taking over from Hornigold as captain when the crew ob-
jected to Hornigold’s refusal to attack ships of all countries. Bellamy 
continued Hornigold’s practise of showing mercy and generosity toward 
those he captured on his raids, and for having genuine concern for the 
well-being of his crew. Bellamy was caught in a vicious storm off Cape 
Cod in 1717; he died at 29 along with all but a handful of his crew. 
Major Stede Bonnet was an oddity: a gentleman who actually bought 
his 10-gun sloop and hired its 70-man crew at his own expense rather 
than stealing it and rising to the captaincy as best among equals. It is 
even said this poor soul took to the sea only to escape the wagging 
tongue of an overbearing wife. Stranger still then that such a man would 
fall in with the likes of Blackbeard—who eventually took his ship. A 
smarter man would have known when to quit, but Bonnet eventually 
regained command when Blackbeard double-crossed Bonnet’s crew. 
Bonnet resumed his pirating only to be taken in August 1718, by two 
sloops out of South Carolina under Colonel William Rhett. His execu-
tion was most notable for his shameless groveling before the hangman 
—unlike many a true Pirate who took their last step unrepentant. His 
sole contribution to Pirate lore may be as the source for the largely 
fictitious practice of “walking the plank.”
Condent was one of piracy’s few winners and finished his career in a 
storybook ending. Forced from New Providence by Woodes Rogers 
after a relatively lackluster career, Condent thought better of a King’s 
Pardon and with his 36-gun brig led the return of piracy to the east. He 
took an Arab ship off Bombay worth 150,000 pounds—a shareout of 
2,000 per man—and promptly retired, aided by a French pardon from 
the Governor of Bourbon. He then married the Governor’s daughter, 
emigrated to France, and became a wealthy ship owner.
This Welshman got his start on the French island of Martinique where 
he conspired with the crew to take over a sloop. He then proceeded to 
take several French ships before turning to Guinea, where he took the 
fort of Cambia Castle via subterfuge. Next fell a Hollander with the 
Governor of Acca on board and 15,000 pounds of booty. Possessed 
of a silver tongue, Davis was adept at gaining advantage with trickery 
and easily enlisted the aid of other Pirates. It was all the more ironic 
then that he met his end ashore in 1719 at the hands of a Portuguese 
ambush while trying to entice the Governor of High Cameroon onto his 
ship under the guise of hospitality. He was replaced by Bartholomew 
Roberts, the greatest Pirate of all, whom he had pressed into service 
only weeks before.
As a rule, Pirates were not noted for mercy; they usually exacted a 
terrible vengeance against those who resisted their depredations. The 
following was an exceptional case, then, when Edward England’s Fancy 
(accompanied by the Victory of John Taylor) engaged the East Indiaman 
Cassandra under James Macrae in August 1720 of Johanna Island, near 
Madagascar. In perhaps the most courageous defense against a Pirate 
attack, the Cassandra caused 90 Pirate casualties while suffering 37 of 
her own, before running aground and having her remaining crew flee 
into the jungle. When Macrae returned to barter with the Pirates for 
the return of his ship, he was braving near certain death. England was 
so taken with Macrae’s courage that he not only interceded to spare 
Macrae, but also gave him the battered Fancy and half his cargo. As a 
direct result of his clemency, England was soon marooned on Mauritius 
Island by his unhappy crew.

An English Pirate during the early 18th century, Hornigold’s ship was 
the starting point for several better known Pirates. Like many Carib-
bean Pirates, Hornigold had served previously on an English privateer 
during the War of Spanish Succession.
Hornigold was known for being less vicious than most. Hornigold 
left New Providence Island in the Bahamas with Edward Teach (later 
known as Blackbeard) among his crew. When he captured a sloop, he 
placed her under Teach’s command. In 1717 they plundered six ships 
off the American coast and raided in the Caribbean. By the year’s end 
Hornigold and Teach had captured a French ship laden with gold, jewels, 
and other booty. After dividing the spoils, they parted company.
When Woodes Rogers was appointed royal governor of the Bahamas, 
Captain Hornigold requested and received a pardon. Rogers commis-
sioned him to hunt down Pirates. Hornigold pursued Stede Bonnet and 
Charles Vane, among others.
 The French Pirate “The Buzzard,” real name Olivier Levasseur, oper-
ated out of the Caribbean and along the African coast. It was his good 
fortune to be sailing in tandem with John Taylor when the latter took 
the Nosa Senhora do Cabo and its rich cargo of diamonds. In 1730 he 
was captured and executed for the crime of piracy at Réunion.
No Pirate got more press for less cause than Kidd. A merchant who 
owed his wealth to his earlier days as a privateer, Kidd was coerced 
by Lord Bellemont, Governor of New York, to sail to the Red Sea as 
a King’s Commissioner and to enrich them both by means of a Letter 
of Marque against the French. But the crew got surly, and when they 
stopped several Dutch ships, Kidd consented to their capture—seizing 
upon French passes held by their captains as sufficient grounds to claim 
them as a legal prize. Then followed the taken of a richly laden Moor-
ish ship, the Queda Merchant. Upon his return to New York, Kidd was 
arrested for piracy, convicted, and hung. He had been betrayed—his 
Letter of Marque and the French passes were hidden by Bellomont, to 
whom Kidd had become a political embarrassment. His body was left 
hanging for years as a public lesson and therefrom sprang his fame. 
Kidd’s booty was never fully recovered, thereby giving birth to tales 
of buried Pirate treasure.
Kennedy was a London pickpocket who rose to considerable stature 
under the great Bartholomew Roberts as a trusted lieutenant. He should 
have stayed there for he did not survive long as his own and was hung 
more than a year before Roberts met his end. He owes what prominence 
he has in Pirate lore to the surviving documentation of his trial in which 
he explained Pirate customs in greater detail than heretofore had been 
generally known.
Few engaged in more unspeakable barbarities than this French deni-
zen of Tortuga, also known as Jean David Nau. Unfortunately for the 
Spanish, the genocidal tendencies of “The Torturer” were reserved 
exclusively for them. One of his tricks of persuasion was to cut open 
the breast of a victim, pull out his still-beating heart, and gnaw upon it 
with great relish while the next menu object looked on in stark terror. 
No wonder few withheld information from him. His greatest success 
was a raid on Marcaibo in 1667 with a fleet of 500 men which netted 
260,000 pieces of eight. This led to a second expedition, against Nica-
ragua, which was annihilated by a joint force of Spaniards and Indians. 
It is a matter of some poetic justice that he met his end in much the 
same manner that he had dispensed it to others; the Indians took him 
alive and meted out a slow and hideous death.
Edward Low stands out in the annals of piracy for two reasons: his 
unceasing hatred of New England and the imaginative tortures he 
wrought on any from there unfortunate enough to fall into his hands. 
One captive master not only lost his ears to Low’s butchery, he was 
then forced to endure the indignity of eating them himself. It would be 
pleasing to report that Low met his end with a similar dispatching, but 
alas he seems to have escaped the long arm of the law, if not of God. 
In January 1724, Low took his last prize. Nothing was heard of him 
again, and it was widely thought that he and his entire crew were lost 
at sea in a storm shortly thereafter. However, three marooned men were 
rescued near Martinique at the same time and hanged by the French as 
Pirates. Low is thought to have possibly been one of them.
Note: Most of the biographical information was taken from the origi-
nal Blackbeard game; the rest comes from various sources, including 
wikipedia.org and piratesinfo.com.

“Calico Jack” was not wanting for courage. He replaced Charles Vane 
when the latter refused to attack a large French ship and later got the 
best of a Spanish Man-O-War; but he owes his place in history to the 
company he kept. His two fiercest hands were members of the fairer 
sex, and more fierce cutthroats never hoisted a Jolly Roger. It is said that 
the women were the first to board a prize and the last to show mercy. 
Indeed, in October 17210 when a British sloop finally caught up with 
them, only the women resisted—the men being incapacitated with drink. 
Both Anne Bonney and Mary Read escaped the gallows with an unusual 
defense… they pleaded their pregnancies. The Court refused to kill an 
unborn child, but Mary died of fever in prison. Anne’s father is said to 
have bought her release after the birth of his grandchild. As for Calico 
Jack, as Mary is said to have told him on his ways to the gallows: “Ye 
wouldn’t have to hang like a dog, if ye’d fought like a man.”
“Black Bart” was the greatest Pirate of all time. Ascending to the 
captaincy of the Royal Rover as a “pressed man” upon the death of 
Howell Davis in 1719, Roberts devastated the Portuguese on Prince’s 
Island in revenge. He then embarked upon a four year career that saw 
him capture over 400 vessels along the Gold Coast, West Indies, and 
New England—including several escapades wherein he sailed into an 
escorted convoy to fleece the merchants of his choice. Such was his 
success that by February 1722 he was commanding a fleet of vessels 
that served as treasure ships and scouts for his 40-gun flagship when 
Chaloner Ogle’s 60-gun Swallow caught up to him at Cape Lopez. 
His men were hung over from a night of revelry and unfit for combat. 
Roberts, who disapproved of liquor, was felled by the first broadside, 
his throat shot away by grapeshot. Without their leader, the fight was no 
contest. Of the 254 captured, 52 were hung and 74 acquitted as “pressed 
men.” The rest died in irons, thus ending the Golden Age of Piracy.
Spriggs sailed with Edward Low until the two quarreled and the former 
took the opportunity to leave with other malcontents aboard a recent 
prize. He shared his former captain’s penchant for barbarity, and those 
who resisted his overtures to join his crew often experienced that first-
hand. Spriggs met his end in the spring of 1725 when he was attacked 
off Western Cuba by a Man of War which pursued him to Florida, 
where his ship ran aground with all hands lost.
Lowther was forced into piracy by a tyrannical captain bent on punish-
ing him, but who succeeded instead in creating a mutiny. Having thus 
already committed a capital offense, Lowther and his mates had little 
to lose by turning to piracy. They operated in concert with Edward 
Low until their fortunes took a turn for the worse while splitting their 
booty on Martinique. Natives there took them by surprise and forced 
them to abandon much of their plunder with a hasty departure. The two 
Pirates then took their leave of each other. In October 1723, Lowther 
had stopped to careen when he was chanced upon by the Eagle, a sloop 
of Barbados, which forced the Pirates to flee into the jungle. Most were 
caught and hanged. Lowther dies by his own hand rather than facing 
the noose.
Often called the “Robin Hood of the Ocean,” Lusan acted with remark-
able chivalry towards his captives. He was a French aristocrat who 
appears to have entered piracy via buccaneer expeditions versus the 
Spanish, as an escape from local creditors to whom he had incurred 
gambling debts. He was not a “professional” Pirate, treating his sea-go-
ing enterprise as a sort of financial divertissement. However, he appears 
to have had a high degree of courage to go along with his unusually 
soft treatment of captives. Moreover, he used the public’s perception 
of piracy to a run a form of “protection racket.” Religious, he insisted 
his crew attend Mass with him before attacking a town. Upon his retire-
ment, he wrote a book about his adventures which may well have been 
the source of inspiration for Sabatini’s “Captain Blood.”
Quelch, like Kidd, sought protection from the law in his Letter of 
Marque. The Charles had been fitted out as a privateer against the 
French but Quelch and his crew disposed of the captain and made for 
the South Atlantic where they took nine Portuguese prizes. Inasmuch 
as Portugal was currently an ally of the Queen of England, Quelch and 
his cohorts were arrested in June 1704 upon their return to Boston—fol-
lowing some conspicuous spending bouts ashore. Shortly thereafter, 
Quelch and six of his crew danced from the gallows.

The man history knows as Blackbeard (and also by various 
names, such as Thatch) wasn’t the most successful Pirate of 
his day, but he was the embodiment of the public’s perception 
of a Pirate as he haunted the American coast, taking dozens of 
prizes (and even defeating a 30-gun frigate of the Royal Navy) 
in an 18-month reign of terror that stretched from Honduras 
to Virginia. A heavy drinker, expert swordsman, and naturally 
violent man, Teach heightened his opponents’ sense of dread 
by plaiting his enormous beard with colored ribbon and lit 
matches. Fourteen “wives” attested to his errant ways. Aided 
by Governor Eden of North Carolina, who welcomed his stolen 
goods, Teach amassed a fleet of over 400 men by 1718, when he 
actually blockaded Charleston. Two Virginia sloops under Rob-
ert Maynard hunted him down on 22 November in the Carolina 
sounds. Teach, aboard the small sloop Adventure with but 18 
hands, was drunk as usual. Nonetheless, he gave the warships 
all they could handle—killing or wounding 35 before falling 
from some 25 wounds. His head adorning the bowsprit of HMS 
Pearl marked the end of his grisly reign. 
Taylor was instrumental in the marooning of Edward England—for it 
was he who replaced him, though England had given Taylor his brig. 
However, Taylor owes his place in history to his good fortune in com-
ing upon the dismasted Portuguese East Indiaman Nossa Senhora do 
Cabo the following April 26. The Cabo was returning from Goa with 
the retiring viceroy and his fortune in diamonds. It was easily the richest 
single haul in all of piracy—a catch worth some one million pounds. 
Having made their fortunes, they sought an English pardon. When this 
was refused they bought a Spanish one instead in 1723 for 20% of their 
loot, and lived out their lives in Portobello. Taylor is rumored to have 
later attacked English logwood-cutters in the Bay of Honduras while 
in command of a Spanish Man-O-War. Historically, he may have been 
one of the few winners of the piracy game.
Tew was a prosperous Rhode Island privateer whose piracy was not 
only condoned, but openly encouraged as a boon to the local economy. 
New England found it easy to countenance Pirates as long as their dep-
redations occurred far away in the Red Sea against the “heathens’ of 
the great Mogul. Tew’s first voyage in 1692, ostensibly inspired by a 
Letter of Marque against the French, was a great success. His eight-gun 
Amity chanced upon a Mogul treasure ship and, despite the presence 
of 300 Indian soldiers, he took it without losing a man. The payout for 
this prize amounted to 1200 pounds per man—an immense sum in those 
days. It made Tew both wealthy and prominent. No less a personage than 
Governor Benjamin Fletcher of New York backed his second voyage, 
but this one came to grief when Tew was disemboweled by a cannon 
shot while attempting to board another Indian merchantman.
A New Providence Pirate, Vane is most notable for his defiant resistance 
to Woodes Rodgers. When the latter appeared in Nassau in 1716 with a 
squadron of five warships and a King’s pardon for all who would submit, 
Vane met them with guns blazing. He remained at large for three years 
and posed a constant threat to Rodger’s fledgling colony of turncoat 
Pirates on New Providence—and was rumored to have joined forces 
with Stede Bonnet for that purpose. He must have mellowed with age 
because Rackham deposed him as captain when he declined to attack 
a large French vessel. Vane narrowly avoided being marooned on that 
occasion and rose to the captaincy of another ship, but finally met his 
end when a storm wrecked his vessel on an uninhabited island in the 
Honduras. He was rescued from starvation by a passing ship only to 
be turned over to the hangman in Jamaica.
This French Pirate’s claim to fame is the first authenticated use of what 
came to be known as the classic “Jolly Roger”, a flag with a skull-and-
crossbones motif. This historic sighting occurred in 1700 off the west 
coast of Africa in an indecisive engagement with HMS Poole. Wynne’s 
version was embellished with an hourglass—presumably to symbolize 
to his prey that their time was running out. The original meaning of 
the Jolly Roger is thought to be an offer of quarter if the prey were to 
surrender. If too slow in their response, it was replaced by a red flag 
which meant: no mercy.

21 Developer’s notes
Living Rules Amendments: We’ve amended, clarified, and simpli-
fied a variety of items for the Living Rules, in response to numerous 
helpful comments from players posting on Consimworld and Board-
GameGeek.
All modifications posted on CSW and BGG have been incorporated 
into the Living Rules; these are denoted by blue text in the “blue” 
version and by vertical lines in the margins in both the “blue” and 
the “print” versions. 
The Sea Area boundaries in the western half of the map have been 
clarified—this map is available in the boxed reprint and a reference 
version is available for download at gmtgames.com;
The multiplier for Hostage ransoms is now 50 instead of 10;
KC Reaction (10.3) has replaced the former procedures for KC 
Actions against Pirates and changes the way KCs function against 
Pirates; KC Actions (10.4) have the former functions but there are 
fewer of them;
The Loot Merchant procedure (8.3) has been streamlined, with 
(among other things) the Convert Merchant Ship Action built into it 
and no longer a separate Pirate Action;
KCs and Warships may no longer interrupt Loot Merchant actions 
once the actual procedure has begun—they may interrupt upon the 
announcement of Loot Merchant;
Recognizing that many players did not like that Warships and KCs 
were less powerful than in the original Blackbeard, we’ve recom-
mended changing the Combat rating of all Warships and KCs by 
+2. The counters themselves have not changed (the only component 
change possible for the reprint was to the map). These modified Com-
bat values are now the official rule, but players should still consider 
the change optional. If you wish to play with the originally printed 
values, which are the values the designer believes create the most 
accurate historical results, by all means do so.
The original Blackbeard, released by the Avalon Hill Game Company in 
1989, took the detail commonly associated with wargames and applied 
it to a topic that would normally have been the subject of a much lighter 
game. But back then detail was all the rage, particularly in the conflict 
simulation market, and any subject lent itself to something closer to an 
historical study than a fast-moving game. Ultimately, that’s what the 
original Blackbeard was: a simulation of the careers of Pirates. There 
was no swashbuckling and very little glamor in their lives, and just as 
little in the game itself. The game was fascinating, and it had (and still 
has) its share of fans, but it felt weighted down at times by the very 
detail that gave it its fascination.
Twenty years later, the game market has changed. The demand now is 
for games with very little downtime and a relatively fast playing time. 
Detail can be included, but it has to flow rather than impede, and the 
game itself is more important. The new Blackbeard was designed from 
the ground up to meet those demands, and what you have in your hands 
right now is a game thoroughly redesigned in recognition of the new 
market. But it wouldn’t be Blackbeard had the concept of the Pirate 
simulation simply been tossed out the window in favor of a fast-playing 
and totally unrealistic game, nor would it have pleased those who en-
joyed the original and waited eagerly for the update. 
As he explained to me when I began developing Blackbeard, Richard 
Berg’s first challenge in the redesign was to eliminate the extensive 
downtime of the original, those periods when one person was making 
his move and everyone else sat around—often for quite a while—as he 
did so. To meet this challenge, he dropped some of the less significant 
detail, but equally importantly, during development he agreed to recast 
the game as a card-driven game, with one player’s turn ending quickly 
and the next player able to jump in. But it didn’t stop there. Instead, 
the concept of the constantly present Anti-Pirate Player emerged, in 
CREDITS
Game Design: Richard H. Berg
Game Development: Neil Randall
Special Assistance: Kevin Coombs, Allen Doum, Dave Klempa
Art Director, Packaging: Rodger B. MacGowan 
Map, Counter, and Card Art: Mark Mahaffey
Pirate Portraits: Leona Preston
Rules Layout: Neil Randall 
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, Gene 
Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
Playtesting: Andrew Young, Kevin Bernatz, Walter Wintar, Kevin 
Coombs, Brian Conlon, Chris Janiec, Brian Snell, Ed Carpenter, 
K. Grimsley, David Klempa, Katherine Bartlett, Lee Watts, Johnny 
DiPonio, Tim Fiscus, Todd Goff, Allen Doum, Adam Whan, Barry 
Setser, Ken Dingley, Britt Strickland, Louise Strickland, J. R. Tracy, 
Michael Gouker, Steven Caler, Gareth Scott, Edward J. Kemp, Jack 
Beckman, Peter Bennett, Jon Gautier, Jim Anderson.
A Note of Thanks: to John Schoonover, of Schoonover Studios, 
Wilmington, DE, for providing us with the famous painting of 
Blackbeard by Frank Schoonover that we used for our boxcover. 
If you want more information on such paintings, you can contact 
the studio at www.schoonoverstudios.com.
Pirate Tourism: Those of you who happen to make it to Charles-
ton, S.C., can attend one of the finest Pirate museums, and home 
of many of the famous Pirate paintings by Howard Pyle and Frank 
Schoonover, plus hundreds of artifacts, in a most unusual location, 
the restaurant, “Queen Anne’s Revenge”. 
which all players would act, in essense, as instigators of events above 
and beyond the control of the Pirates. In other words, you’re not just 
playing a Pirate in this game, nor are you playing a Pirate and a King’s 
Commissioner, you’re also responsible for warships appearing, for wear 
and tear on the opposing Pirate’s ships, for mutinies and double-crosses, 
and for much else. You’re a Pirate, but you’re also fate.
With the design promising a much faster and much more interactive 
game, developing it meant ensuring that all of the possible Actions that 
players could take never stopped the game in its tracks because of the 
wide array of possible interactions and their effects. At the same time, 
we needed to ensure that all players were in the game at all times—or 
at least as much as possible—even with five people playing. The result 
of this effort are the Charts & Tables card and the Pirate Displays. 
There aren’t all that many charts and tables in the game, but die-rolls 
for various purposes are numerous. We wanted the most frequently 
accessed procedures in one place, with a step-by-step procedure for 
how to work through each procedure, so we developed the procedure 
summaries on those cards. Of primary importance was the Loot Mer-
chant Ship procedure, a fundamental game mechanic that constantly 
had playtesters digging through the rules to see what happened next 
and how. Ultimately the step-by-step procedure, with enough detail to 
get players through it and references for the rest, did the trick.
Enjoy the game. We’ve found playing it a fun, highly entertaining 
experience, 2–3 hours with lots of talking and laughing, for hard-core 
and casual gamers alike. It’s also, we think, a pretty good simulation, 
at this scale and level of detail, of what piracy was all about.
Neil Randall, January/September 2008

Port GRid: 3-PlAYER GAME
A1
A2
A3
B1
B2
B3
C1
C2
C3
#
Name
Boston
New York
Philadelphia
Virginia
Bath
Charleston
Honduras
Portobello
Cartagena
Curacao
Port o’ Spain
Martinique
Guadeloupe
San Juan
Santo Domingo
Isla de Tortuga
Santiago
Havana
New Providence
Cape Coast
Cormantin
Whydah
Cape Lopez
Kilwa
Zanzibar
Ethiopia
Mocha
Bombay
Severndroog
Goa
Calicut
Isle Ste. Marie
GMT Games grants permission to photocopy this page for personal use.

A1
A2
B1
B2
C1
C2
D1
D2
E1
E2
#
Name
Boston
New York
Philadelphia
Virginia
Bath
Charleston
Honduras
Portobello
Cartagena
Curacao
Port o’ Spain
Martinique
Guadeloupe
San Juan
Santo Domingo
Isla de Tortuga
Santiago
Havana
New Providence
Cape Coast
Cormantin
Whydah
Cape Lopez
Kilwa
Zanzibar
Ethiopia
Mocha
Bombay
Severndroog
Goa
Calicut
Isle Ste. Marie
Port GRid: 4-Player and 5-player Game
GMT Games grants permission to photocopy this page for personal use.

1	 Introduction..............................................	2
2	 Game Components ...................................	2
	
2.1 Playing Cards.....................................	2
	
2.2 Map ...................................................	2
	
2.3 Player Aids.........................................	2
	
2.4 Playing Pieces ...................................	3
	
2.5 Dice....................................................	3
	
2.6 Useful Terminology...........................	4
	
2.7 Number of Players ............................	4
	
2.8 Questions...........................................	4
3	 Preparing for Play....................................	4
4	 Course of Play ..........................................	5
	
4.1 Game Length.....................................	5
	
4.2 Objectives and Flow of Play..............	5
	
4.3 The Player-Turn.................................	5
	
4.4 Phases of the Player-Turn .................	5
	
4.5 Pirate Actions.....................................	6
	
4.6 Anti-Pirate Actions ...........................	6
5	 Pirates........................................................	7
	
5.1 Deploying Pirates .............................	7
	
5.2 Pirate Ratings.....................................	7
6	 Ships..........................................................	8
	
6.1 Types of Ships ..................................	8
	
6.2 Pirate Ships .......................................	8
	
6.3 Merchant Ships .................................	9
	
6.4 Warships ...........................................	9
7	 Movement .................................................	10
	
7.1 Moving in Sea Areas.........................	10
	
7.2 Moving in Transit Boxes ..................	10
	
7.3 Moving in and out of Ports ...............	10
8	 Merchant Ships ........................................	10
	
8.1 Finding Merchants ............................	10
	
8.2 Looting Merchants ............................	11
	
8.3 The Looting Process .........................	11
	
8.4 Hostages ...........................................	10
	
8.5 Converting Merchant Ships ..............	12
9	 Ports .........................................................	12
	
9.1 Ports in General ................................	12
	
9.2 Governors .........................................	12
	
9.3 Port Status .........................................	12
	
9.4 In-Port Actions...................................	13
	
9.5 Pirate Attacks on Ports.......................	14
	
9.6 Booty Grab........................................	15
10	 King’s Commissioners .............................	15
	
10.1 How KCs Arrive ..............................	15
	
10.2 How KCs Function ..........................	15
	
10.3 KCs Reaction ...................................	16
	
10.4 KC Actions ......................................	17
	
10.5 KCs and Victory Points....................	17
11	 Pirate Alliances.........................................	17
12	 Pirate Cunning and Luck.........................	18
13	 Debauchery & Revelry..............................	18
	
13.1 How D&R Occurs............................	18
	
13.2 The Effects of D&R..........................	18
14	 Mutiny.......................................................	18
15	 Duels..........................................................	18
16 Recovery vs. Refit......................................	19
17	 Event Cards...............................................	19
	
17.1 How to Use Event Cards..................	19
	
17.2 The Events........................................	19
18	 Winning ....................................................	23
	
18.1 Victory Points ..................................	23
	
18.2 Notoriety Points ...............................	23
	
18.3 Net Worth ........................................	23
	
18.4 Retirement .......................................	23
19	 Solitaire Blackbeard ................................	24
20	 Pirate Biographies ...................................	25
21	 Developer’s Notes ....................................	29
	
Credits .......................................................	29
	
Port Grid 3-Player......................................	30
	
Port Grid 4-Player and 5-Player ...............	31
Table of Contents
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, 
Hanford, CA 93232–1308
www.GMTGames.com
BLACKBEARD