THE GAME WITH THE M.I.B.S.
THE GAME WITH THE M.I.B.S.
Black Friday offers an independently acting opponent, the M.I.B.S. (minimally intelligent broker service). Depending on the number of 
players you have, you may be able to opt to play with or without the M.I.B.S.
With 2 players, you have no choice and must play “in a threesome” with the M.I.B.S. Follow all details for 3 players.
With 3 or 4 players, you can choose to play with or without the M.I.B.S. When playing with the M.I.B.S., follow all details for
4 or 5 players.
The game is designed for at most 5 players. Thus, with 5 players play without the M.I.B.S.
The required game rules for the M.I.B.S. follow after the general rules.
Black Friday
Black Friday
Friedemann Friese
Friedemann Friese
The stock market game for 2 - 5 players
IDEA OF THE GAME
IDEA OF THE GAME
You are speculators in Black Friday who try to gain as much gold as possible before the huge stock market crash. Try to earn enough 
cash by cleverly buying and selling shares, so you can spend it on the coveted precious metal. If you are the best at manipulating 
market development and share prices, you have the best chance to win the game.
GAME COMPONENTS
GAME COMPONENTS
1 game board (double-sided)
5 share price tokens 
(1 each in purple, yellow, 
green, blue, and white)
2 gold tokens
20 big gold bars
20 small gold bars
5 screens
5 level tiles (double-sided)
1 cloth bag
4 bonus tiles
2.
3.
4.
5.
money tokens (30x $1, 15x $5, 20x 
$10, 15x $50, 10x $100, 10x $200).
140 shares (25 briefcases each in purple, 
yellow, green, blue, and white, and 15 in black)
3 - 4

GAME PREPARATION
GAME PREPARATION
Place the game board with the side face up, showing the 
symbol 2-4 or 5 matching your number of players.
Determine the starting player. Each 
player (except the starting player) takes the 
numbered personal bonus tile matching 
their position in turn order and places it in 
front of their screen.
• Games with the M.I.B.S.: 
When playing with the M.I.B.S., it always 
starts the game. In turn order, each player 
takes their numbered personal bonus 
tile.
Place 1 gold token each on space “20” of 
the “gold price” track and on space “0” of 
the “purchased gold bars” track.
 Randomly draw 20 shares from the bag and place them on the 
matching spaces of the share market to the other shares drawn before.
• 2 - 4 : There are now a total of 40 shares in the share market.
• 5 : There are now a total of 45 shares in the share market.
Adjust the share price tokens as follows:
• Most expensive color: Move the share price 
token of the color with the fewest shares in 
the share market to the right on 10th space.
• Cheapest color: Move the share price token 
of the color with the most shares in the share 
market to the left on 6th space.
If there is a tie for the fewest or the most 
shares, move all affected share price tokens 
appropriately. If there is an equal number of 
shares of all five colors, all share price tokens 
remain on 8th space.
Each player takes a screen and draws 
5 shares from the bag. These shares are 
placed behind your screen without showing 
them to the other players. Take $100 from 
the bank and also place that money behind 
your screen.
For now, place the bag with the remaining 
shares to the side. It will be needed later in 
the game.
2.
3.
4.
5.
“gold price” 
share price 
table
share price 
tokens

Place the gold bars in a bank next to the 
game board. The small gold bars count as 1, 
and the big bars count as 5 gold bars.
Place the 5 share price tokens on the marked 
8th space of the share price table. (Note that 
black is not a share color and, therefore, does 
not have a share price token. In steps 8-12, black 
shares are NEVER involved.)
Place the money tokens in 
the bank next to the gold bars.
Place the remaining 9 black shares 
on the spaces marked on the 
right side of the share price table. Each 
of these spaces is in one of the white 
and dark green colored areas that 
ensure the rising share price levels.
Place 2 shares in each of the 
five colors on the 10 matching 
spaces of the three “share sale” 
tracks. Additionally, place 6 black 
shares on the spaces marked 
next to these tracks.
At the start of the game, the top 
track is considered the current 
“share sale” track.
Fill the bag with shares of the five colors:
2 - 4 : Place 1 share of each color in the game box. 
Then, fill the bag with all remaining shares.
5 : Fill the bag with all remaining shares.
 Place the following number of shares of the five colors 
on the matching market spaces of the share market:
2 - 4 : Place 4 shares on each market space.
5 : Place 5 shares on each market space.
Sort the 5 double-sided level tiles in 
ascending order, that show the 10 share price 
levels. Place them as a face up stack on the 
matching space of the game board. The tile 
with level “0” should be on top, followed 
by the tile with level “2” and so on.
share 
market
“share sale” 
tracks
level tiles
number of 
players
bag
“purchased gold 
bars” track
“share purchase” 
“gold purchase” 
“price change” 
overview
bank

Price change: This is the number of shares that you draw 
from the bag during a price change. During the game this 
number can rise to 12.
Adjusting the share prices
Share prices only rise or drop gradually as a result of the 
purchase or sale of shares. When price changes are triggered, the 
fluctuations are more drastic.
The individual share prices change as a result of the purchase or 
sale of shares:
 Raising prices: When the arrow points to 
the right, move the matching share price 
token for affected shares on the share price 
table 1 space to the right. If the token is 
already on a space of the right column, instead move it to the 
space directly above, as shown by . When the arrow points 
up, move the matching share price token 1 space up. If the token 
is already in the top row, instead move it to the right. The share 
price cannot increase above $240. 
Note: We never reached a share price of $240 in all of our play 
test games. There will be games when the price only fluctuates 
around $100, but of course, there will be games with much 
higher prices.
Dropping prices: When the arrow points to the 
left, move the share price token on the share price 
table 1 space to the left. If the token is already on a space of 
the left column, instead move it to the space directly below, as 
shown by . The share price cannot drop below $4.
Price change: The price change can trigger more 
drastic fluctuations. When adjusting the price due 
to a price change, move each share price token one 
space at a time until it reaches the specified space. If 
the token is on a space of the left or right 
column and you must move it horizontally, 
instead move it to the space directly above 
or below the current position of the share 
price token, as shown by or .
As shown on the tile at the bottom left, at the start of the 
game level “0” is in effect. You can only buy or sell 
1 share or buy 1 gold bar . During a price change, 
draw 5 shares from the bag .
HOW TO PLAY
HOW TO PLAY
The following sections below will explain the game rules for 
games with 2 to 5 players. For 2 players, and optionally for 3-4 
players, the M.I.B.S. game rules are also in effect, which may 
be found at the end of the rules booklet.
In Black Friday, turns are always taken in clockwise order. 
Once you finish your turn, the player on your left takes 
the next turn. During your turn, choose exactly one of the 
following 3 actions. 
1. Buy shares
3. Buy gold
In addition to your action: Use your bonus tile – only once 
per game.
Price change: When there are a certain number 
of shares on a track after taking an action, 
immediately perform a price change. Afterward, 
continue the game with your turns.
End of the game: The game 
ends during the price change 
when you move the gold token 
on the “gold price” track to the 100 space. After selling your 
remaining shares, you win Black Friday if you have the 
biggest fortune in cash and gold bars.
The level tiles
The stock exchange starts slowly after the opening bell. When 
the share prices start to rise, the pace of the market will 
accelerate into a frenzy.
The level tiles determine how often you can perform the 
different actions during each turn. The tiles show 3 values:
Purchase/sale limit for shares: 
This is the maximum number of 
shares you can buy or sell during 
each “buy shares” or “sell shares” 
action. During the game this 
number can rise to 5.
Purchase limit for gold bars: 
This is the maximum number of 
gold bars you can buy during each 
“buy gold” action. During the game 
this number can rise to 5.

✘
 The price of the blue shares rises 1 space to the right 
 . Move the share price token from $25 to $30.
 The price of the yellow shares drops 1 space to the left 
 . The share price token is on the left column of the 
share price table, so move it 1 space down to $6 instead of 
1 space to the left. 
✘
During a price change, according to the overview, the 
price of the purple shares rises to space “4”. 
First, move the share price token 2 spaces up. 
As it is already on the right column, you cannot move it 
1 space to the right. Move it up 1 space instead.
1. Buy shares
Current stock exchange news: Green shares are bought in great 
quantities. Insiders hope that their share prices may rise soon …
Each time you buy shares, you increase the probability that the 
price of the corresponding color will rise later! Each share purchase 
has a positive but delayed influence on its share price.
With this action, buy any available shares for the current 
price from the share market.
You can only buy at most 1 share at the start of the game. 
The purchase limit will rise during the game when the level 
increases. If you choose to buy zero shares, you will have only 
the opportunity to manipulate the share market.
When buying a share, pay money equal to the share price to the 
bank. Place 1 share of the matching color from the share
market behind your screen. Furthermore, place 1 additional 
share of the same color from the share market on an empty 
space of the “share purchase” track.
When buying the last share of a color, leaving the corresponding 
market space empty, place 1 colored share of your choice on the 
“share purchase” track.
Important: When the purchase limit rises, and you buy several 
shares at once, still only place 1 share on that track. 
When you buy multiple colors on your turn, choose one of those 
colors to put 1 share on the track. If no shares are available from 
the colors you purchased, you must select a different colored 
share from the share market to place on the track.
Buy zero shares: If you choose to buy zero shares, 
only place 1 colored share of your choice from the share 
market on an empty space of the “share purchase” 
Adjust the share price: For now, the price of the chosen color 
does not change, except the following happens:
Raising prices: When you take the last 
share of a color from the share market, 
move its share price token 1 space to the right.
Raising prices: When you place the 
third share of a color on the “share 
purchase” track, move its share price token 1 space to the right. 
When you place further shares of that color on the track, they 
do not change the price.

Trigger the price change: Check the following at 
the end of the action:
When colored 
shares cover all 
5 spaces of the “share purchase” track, trigger a price change.
When colored shares 
cover all 6 spaces of the 
“share purchase” track, trigger a price change.
 During level “3” you 
can buy at most 2 shares 
at once.
 Because there are no yellow shares left in the share 
market, you have no choice and must place 1 purple share 
from the share market on the “share purchase” track.
 You buy the last yellow share for $15 and 1 purple 
share for $25.
 Because there are no yellow shares left in the share 
market, adjust their share price and move the yellow 
price token 1 space 
to the right. The 
second purple 
share on the “share 
purchase” does not 
change the price of 
the purple shares.
Current stock exchange news: Bad news for some brokers. Some 
traders ditch the yellow shares. As a result, their share price drops, 
and it will be difficult for the price to rebound …
With each share sale, you lower the probability that the price of 
the corresponding color can rise later! Thus, each share sale has an 
immediate and delayed negative influence on its share price.
With this action, sell any shares from your assets for the 
current price to the share market.
You can only sell at most 1 share at the start of the game. 
During the game, the sale limit will rise when the level 
increases. If you choose to sell zero shares, you will have only 
the opportunity to manipulate the share market.
When selling a share, place a share in the corresponding color 
from your assets in the share market. Receive money from the 
bank equal to the share price. Additionally, remove 1 share 
of the same color from the current “share sale” track and also 
place it in the share market. At the start of the game, this is 
the top of the three “share sale” tracks.
When there is no share of the corresponding color left on the 
“share sale” track, remove 1 share of a color of your choice and 
place it in the share market.
Important: When the sale limit rises, and you sell several 
shares at once, still only remove 1 share from the “share sale” 
When you sell multiple colors on your turn, choose one of 
those colors to remove 1 share from the track. If no shares are 
available from the colors you sold, you must select a different 
colored share to remove from the track.
Sell zero shares: If you choose to sell zero shares, 
only remove 1 colored share of your choice from the 
current “share sale” track and place it on the share market.
Adjust the share price: The price of the chosen color changes 
immediately:
Dropping prices: Move the share 
price token of the removed color 1 
space to the left.
the first 
“share sale“ 

Trigger the price change: Check the following at 
the end of the action:
When you removed 
5 shares, so that 
there are only 5 colored shares on the current “share sale” 
track, trigger the price change.
When you removed 6 
shares, so that there 
are only 4 colored shares on the current “share sale” track, 
trigger the price change.
After this price change, use the underlying second “share 
sale” track. After emptying the third track, continue the 
game using only the center “share sale” track. As the last step 
during the price change, refill the center track. Place 2 shares 
in each of the five colors from the market spaces on the track 
and 2 black shares from the bank on the spaces next to it. 
If there are not enough colored or black shares, leave the 
respective spaces blank.
Raising prices: When you take the last 
share of a color from the share market 
while refilling the center track, move its share price token 1 
space to the right.
3. Buy gold
Current stock exchange news: The Run on the gold reserves 
accelerates. This secure investment gets increasingly costly, except 
the financial bets on the best shares are successful …
Each time you buy gold, you increase the probability that the price 
of your freely chosen color will rise later! Each gold purchase has a 
positive but delayed influence on the chosen share price.
With this action, buy gold bars for the current price from the 
bank.
At the start of the game, you can only buy at most 1 gold bar. 
During the game, the purchase limit will rise when the level 
increases. If you choose to buy zero gold bars, you will have 
only the opportunity to manipulate the share market.
When buying a gold bar, pay money equal to the current gold 
price to the bank. Place 1 small gold bar from the bank behind 
your screen. Then, move the gold token on the “purchased gold 
bars” track 1 space to the right. Furthermore, place 1 colored 
share of your choice from the share market on an empty space 
of the “gold purchase” track. 
Important: When the purchase limit rises and you buy several 
gold bars at once, move the gold marker on the “purchased gold 
bars” for each purchased gold bar 1 space to the right. However, 
still place only 1 share on the “gold purchase” track.
Check gold reserves: Every time you have 5 small gold bars, 
immediately exchange them in a big gold bar from the bank. 
A big gold bar counts as 5 small gold bars.
Buy zero gold bars: If you choose to buy zero gold 
bars, only place 1 colored share of your choice from 
the share market on an empty space of the “gold purchase” 
 So, the price 
of the blue share 
drops and you 
move its share 
price token 1 space 
to the left.
 During level “4” you can sell at 
most 3 shares at once.
 You place 3 green 
shares from your 
assets on the share 
market and take $150 
from the bank (their 
price is at $50, check 
 at the top right).
 No green shares 
are left on the current 
“share sale” track, so 
you must choose one 
of the other available 
shares. For example, 
you do not have any 
blue shares, so you 
remove 1 blue share 
and place it on the 
share market.

Adjust the share price: For now, the price of the chosen 
color does not change, except the following happens:
Raising prices: When you take the 
last share of a color from the share 
market, move its share price token 1 space to the right.
Raising prices: When you place 
the third share of a color on the 
“gold purchase” track, move its share price token 1 space to 
the right. When you place further shares of that color on the 
track, they do not change the price.
Trigger the price change: Check the following 
at the end of the action:
When colored 
shares cover all 
5 spaces of the “gold purchase” track, trigger a price change.
When colored shares 
cover all 6 spaces of 
the “gold purchase” track, trigger a price change.
Price change
Current stock exchange news: Turmoil at the international 
financial markets results in fluctuating share prices …
You must hope that your plans will come to fruition and that the 
prices of the correct shares rise, or at least do not drop too far, 
thanks to even worse news
When you trigger a price change, take the bag and perform the 
following steps. Afterwards, continue the current turn.
Draw shares: Draw shares from the bag and place them 
above the share market for now. The number of shares drawn is 
stated by the current level tile.
Adjust the gold price: The price of gold goes up if one of 
these two cases occurs:
Drawn black shares: For each 
drawn black share, move the gold 
token 1 space upward.
Purchased gold bars: For each 3 
marked gold bars on the “purchased 
gold bars” track, move the gold 
token 1 space upward. Then, move 
the gold marker on the “purchased gold bars” track back to 
0 space. This track only shows the number of purchased gold 
bars since the last price change.
 
Adjust the share prices: The share 
prices of all five colors change depending 
on which shares are drawn from the bag. 
Follow the order of colors of the share 
market: first purple, then yellow, and so on.
Use the overview to the right of the share price table. The 
center space with the share price token represents the current 
share price. Based on the number and color of shares drawn 
from the bag, move each share price token to the respective 
target space as follows.
a) You draw no black shares from the bag:
Depending on the number of colored shares 
move the share price tokens according to the 
overview on the share price table.
If you draw more than 6 shares of a color, move that share price 
token one or more spaces further up, as shown on the table.
As you have $190, you 
only buy 3 gold bars for a 
total of $165. 
 You own many yellow shares. So, you choose 1 yellow 
share from the share market and place it on the “gold 
purchase” track.
 Then, move the gold token on the “purchased gold 
bars” track 3 spaces 
to the right.
x
 At the start of the game, draw 
5 shares from the bag for the price 
change.
x
 During level “6” you can buy at 
most 4 gold bars at 
once, while the gold 
price is currently at 
$55. 
You check the gold reserves
 and place 2 small gold bars in the 
bank to take 1 big gold bar. 

b) You draw exactly 1 black share from the bag:
Toss the black share back in the 
bag. Do not draw a replacement. 
Move the share price tokens as explained above.
c) You draw at least 2 black shares from the bag:
Subtract the number of black shares from the shares in 
each color. Move the share price tokens for each color 
according to the determined value, as explained above. 
The share prices can drop significantly because of this 
process.
Place the black shares next to the gold bars in the bank. 
You do not need them for now.
Clean up the shares: Place the colored shares you drew 
from the bag on the respective spaces of the share market. 
Put all shares from the track that triggered this price change 
into the bag. If it was the current “share sale” track, also put the 
black shares next to that track in the bag.
Raising prices: If there are 
still no shares of a certain 
color in the share market, 
raise their share price. Move the respective share price token 
1 space up.
Check for level change: Check the area on the share 
price table with the most valuable color. If it is a new area, so 
there is still a black share on the right side of that area, the 
respective level becomes active. Place the lower level tiles in 
the game box or flip the needed level tile, so the respective 
new level is face up on the space next to the share price 
table.
The new level raises the purchase and sale limits and/or the 
number of black shares you must draw during the next price 
change. For the new level and each bypassed level, put the 
black share from the respective area in the bag. If you do 
not reach a new level or when all share prices drop to lower 
areas than the current level’s area, the current level remains 
active. You never switch back to a lower level.
Important: During the game, you activate higher levels 
only via price changes. If you move a share price token 
to a new area when you raise share prices gradually during 
your actions, the level does not change.
Refill the center “share sale” track: When you 
triggered the price change with the third “share sale” track, 
refill the center“share sale” track.
≥2
After a “sell shares” action, there are only 5 colored shares 
on the current “share sale” track. Thus, you trigger a price 
change.
 
You are in level 
“5” and you draw the 
following 8 shares from 
the bag: 2 black, 1 yellow, 
4 blue, 1 white.
Because you drew 2 black shares, first move the gold 
token on the “gold price” track 2 spaces from $55 to $65. 
As you bought a total of 10 gold bars 
since the last price change, move the gold 
marker an additional 3 spaces to $80. 
Then, move the gold marker on the
“purchased gold bars” track back to space 
“0”.
Subtract the 2 black shares from each of the drawn 
colored shares. Move the share price tokens as follows: 
purple to $30 ( - ), 
yellow to $75 ( - ), 
green to $25 ( - ), 
blue to $110 ( - ), 
white to $40 ( - ). 
Then, place the 2 black shares 
next to the gold bars in the 
bank.

The bonus tiles
You know a few tricks to snatch the worm away from the early 
bird, but sadly, these only work once …
The bonus tiles offer you onetime advantages. Of these you can 
only use one in additon to one of your actions. Afterward, you 
place the tile in the game box.
The following four advantages are available. The bonus tile “2.“ 
only offers the first advantage, the tile “3.“ offers the first and 
second, and so on.
Buy zero shares/sell zero shares/
Buy zero gold: In addition to your 
chosen action, place 1 colored share of your choice from the 
share market on the “share purchase” or “gold purchase” track or 
remove 1 colored share of your choice from the “share sale” track 
and place it on the share market.
Important: You can trigger a price change with it, during 
your turn, before taking your chosen action.
Sell an additional share: When choosing the “sell 
shares” action, you can sell 1 more share than allowed 
by the current sale limit. Take money according to the share 
price table.
Buy an additional gold bar: When choosing 
the “buy gold“ action, you can buy 1 more gold 
bar than allowed by the current purchase limit. Pay money 
equal to the current gold price.
Buy an additional share: When choosing the “buy 
shares” action, you can buy 1 more share than allowed 
by the current purchase limit. Pay money according to the 
share price table.
GAME END AND FINAL SCORING
GAME END AND FINAL SCORING
The stock exchange closes with a bang: After severe price 
fluctuations, gold prices reach unprecedented heights and all 
trades are stopped for now. Happy is one who already collected 
enough gold reserves and cash.
The game ends after any price adjustment if the gold token 
has moved to 100 on the “gold price” track. You may ignore any 
further price increases from this point.
Now, sell all remaining shares you still own for the current 
prices. Do not adjust prices for these sales.
Then, determine your wealth: In addition to your cash, each 
small gold bar counts as $100, and each big gold bar $500.
If you have the highest total in Dollars, you win the game. In the 
case of a tie, the player with the most money in gold bars is the 
winner. Gold is the safest investment.
+ +1
- +1
+1
Place the drawn colored shares on the respective 
spaces of the share market. Put the 5 colored and 2 black 
shares from the current “share sale” track in the bag.
There are shares on all spaces of the share market, so 
there is no additional raise of share prices.
 
Continue to play with the third “share sale” track. Only 
after triggering another price change with that track, you 
must refill the center “share sale” track again with shares.
With $110, the blue share price token reached a new 
area on the share price table and activates level “6” 
(check on page 9). Place the level “5“ tile in the box 
and put the black share from this area in the bag.

THE M.I.B.S.
THE M.I.B.S.
The minimally intelligent broker service meddles with your share 
transactions. Are you able to cut it down in size?
The M.I.B.S. follows all game rules mentioned above. To make 
its decisions, follow these details.
Game preparation
Game preparation
The M.I.B.S. does not use a screen. Its cash and shares are 
always visible to you. It draws 5 shares and takes $100.
The M.I.B.S. always starts the game. In turn order, each player 
takes the numbered personal bonus tile matching their 
position in turn order.
How to play
How to play
The M.I.B.S. follows distinct selection rules. You can mutually 
take care of its turns.
The M.I.B.S. chooses its actions in this order:
1. Buy shares or buy gold
1. Buy shares or buy gold
Buying is always better than selling …
The M.I.B.S. chooses this action as long as it has enough cash to 
buy the maximum allowed limit of shares or gold bars.
The M.I.B.S. always buys the cheaper offer:
When the total amount for shares is equal or less than 
for gold bars, it buys shares.
When the total amount for gold bars is less than for 
shares, it buys gold bars.
When the M.I.B.S. buys shares, it chooses this order:
It buys the cheapest color. If there are not enough shares 
of that available in the share market, it additionally buys 
shares of the second cheapest color and so on until it reaches 
the purchase limit.
If there are several cheapest colors, it chooses the color 
with fewer shares.
If this number is also equal, it chooses purple, yellow, 
green, blue, and white in this order.
In level “4” the M.I.B.S. can either 
buy 3 shares or 3 gold bars.
It has enough cash and checks the current prices. There 
are still 2 yellow shares at $25 each, as well as green 
shares at $30 each in the share market. 
… in this case, the M.I.B.S. pays $78 and takes 3 gold 
bars. 
3 Thus, the M.I.B.S. would have to pay $80 for the 
cheapest 3 shares. As the gold price is at $26 for each 
gold bar, …
5 Then, it moves the gold token on the “purchased gold 
bars” track 3 spaces to the right.
The M.I.B.S. has more green shares than any other 
color and places 1 green share from the share market on 
the “gold purchase” track.

For each “buy shares” or “buy gold” action, the M.I.B.S. places 
1 share on the respective track. When buying shares, it is first 
limited to the bought colors; when buying gold, it has a free 
choice. 
The M.I.B.S. chooses this order to determine which share to 
place:
It chooses the color of which it has the most shares.
If it has several colors with the most shares, it chooses the 
most expensive of them.
If several colors have the same price, it chooses the one 
with the fewest shares in the share market at that price.
If prices are all the same, it chooses purple, yellow, green, 
blue, and white in this order.
If there are no shares of its colors in the share market, 
it chooses the cheapest color from the remaining shares, 
then, if necessary, the one with the most shares, then, if 
necessary, purple, yellow, green, blue, and white in this 
order.
If the M.I.B.S. does not have enough cash to buy the 
maximum number as allowed by the purchase limit, it chooses 
in this order:
: As long as it has shares available to sell, it chooses 
the “sell shares” action.
: If it has sold all shares, it buys as much as possible 
of the cheapest offer.
 
: If there is not enough cash to buy anything, 
it manipulates the share market by placing 1 share from the 
share market on the “gold purchase” track. It chooses the 
cheapest color, then, if necessary, the one with the most 
shares, and then, if necessary, purple, yellow, green, blue, and 
white in that order.
Sadly, money reserves are not endless …
If the M.I.B.S. needs cash, it sells the maximum allowed limit 
of shares and places them in the share market. It chooses this 
order:
It sells the most expensive color. If it does not have 
enough shares of them, it additionally sells shares of the 
second most expensive color and so on until it reaches the 
sale limit. If it has fewer shares left than the limit allows, it 
sells all remaining shares.
If it has several of the most expensive colors, it chooses 
the color of which it has more shares.
If this number is also equal, it chooses purple, yellow, 
green, blue, and white in this order.
For each “sell shares” action, the M.I.B.S. removes 1 share from 
the “share sale” track and places it in the share market as well. 
First, it is limited to the colors just sold before it can choose 
freely. 
The M.I.B.S. chooses this order to determine the share:
It chooses the color of which it has the fewest shares.
If it has several colors with the fewest shares, it chooses the 
cheapest among them.
If several colors have the same price, it chooses the one 
with the most shares in the share market at that price.
If prices are all the same, it chooses purple, yellow, green, 
blue, and white in this order.
If there are no shares of its colors on the track, it chooses 
the most expensive color from the remaining shares, then, if 
necessary, the one with the fewest shares, then, if necessary, 
purple, yellow, green, blue, and white in this order.
Game end and final scoring
Game end and final scoring
Even a M.I.B.S. can amass riches!
The M.I.B.S. sells all remaining shares in its assets for the current 
prices as well.
If it has the highest total in Dollars, you better start rethinking 
some of your financial investment choices …
Author: Friedemann Friese
Graphics & Layout: Harald Lieske
Editing & Production: Henning Kröpke
Proofreading: Jay Tummelson, Ken Hill, Christian Frank, Ronald 
Hrkać, Linus Wolf
Copyright 2023, 2F-Spiele, Bremen/Germany
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 1033
Placitas, NM 87043, USA
RioGames@aol.com
www.riograndegames.com