Blood Bowl 2016
October 2017

Rules Included:
Bugman’s Star Players (May 2016)
Rulebook (November 2016)
Death Zone Season 1! (November 2016)
Early Bird Special Play card (2016)
Match Events (App December 2016)
Winter Weather Table (Winter Pitch January 2017)
Subterranean Stadium Conditions (Dwarf/Skaven Pitch January 2017)
Warhammer Open Special Play card (January 2017)
Referees (White Dwarf January 2017)
Errata and FAQ(pdf May 2017)
Winterbowl Inducements (January 2017)
Savage Orcs, Human Nobility, Star Players, Inducements, Match Events (App, February 2017)
Blitzmania Kick-off table (App update, February 2017)
Blitzmania Special Play cards (League Event February 2017)
Special Play Variant rules v3 (pdf, April 2017)
Team-specific ball rules (White Dwarf March 2017)
White Dwarf and Black Gobbo (White Dwarf May 2017)
Death Zone Season 2! (May 2017)
Dwarf Slayer Hold, Skaven Pestilent Vermin, Star Players, Inducements, Match Events (App, May 2017)
Gobbo balls (White Dwarf June 2017)
Updated Grak & Crumbleberry rules (PDF July 2017)
Special Play Card “Gassy Eurption”, Warhammer World Exclusive (August 2017)
Limitations and decisions:
These rules are a collection of all new Blood Bowl rules merged together with previous Living Rulebook version 6. Please note 
that some of these rules are optional and have limited to no play testing. Some optional rules and play cards from the previous 
edition are also supplied here for reference.
Minor modifications by the author:
Added “apply to both teams” for some Blitzmania kick-off table results if a result required a roll from both players and 
the result would be a tie. 
Added limited duration for some match events which originally had no limit and severely affected the game.
Incorporated White Dwarf Goblin & Halfling Referees to the Death Zone Season 2 Referee table.
Author: Baxx @ dakkadakka
Todo: 
-Skaven Vermin Pestilent match events (missing details for 1)
-Team descriptions: Savage Orcs, Human Nobility, Slayer Hold, Vermin Pestilent

Blood Bowl Rulebook 2016 with errata
 Well after one and a half decade, Games Workshop has officially re-released Blood Bowl. This is a combination of the new rulebook 
and Death Zone Season books. In addition, faqs, erratas, White Dwarf articles and numerous limited or special additions have been 
included. Additional Weather tables, Kick-off table, stadium rules, sponsorships, rostered star players and referee rules have also been 
added. All changes and typographical corrections from version LRB6 to Games Workshop 2016 have been highlighted in red so they 
are easy to spot.
SETTING UP THE GAME ………………….
THE SEQUENCE OF PLAY ……………….
Moving The Turn Marker…………………....
Player Actions ……………………………….
List Of Actions ……………………………….
Turnovers …………………………………….
MOVEMENT ………………………………...
Tackle Zones………………………………....
Picking Up The Ball ………………………....
BLOCKS ……………………………………..
Blitz Moves …………………………………..
Strength……………………………………….
KNOCK DOWNS & INJURIES …………....
Injuries ………………………………………..
Standing Up ………………………………….
Substitutes …………………………………...
The Injury Table ……………………………..
THROWING THE BALL …………………...
Throwing ……………………………………..
Catching The Ball …………………………...
Bouncing Balls ……………………………....
Throw-ins …………………………………….
Turnovers …………………………………….
RE-ROLLS …………………………………..
Team Re-rolls ………………………………..
Player Re-rolls ……………………………….
Skills ………………………………………….
WINNING THE MATCH …………………….
Scoring Touchdowns In Your Turn ………...
Restarting The Match ……………………….
Conceding The Match ……………………...
EXTRA RULES ……………………………..
CREATING A TEAM ………………………..
Team Roster Sheets ………………………..
Buying Players ……………………………....
Team Re-rolls & Fan Factor ………………..
Coaching Staff ……………………………….
Head Coach ………………………………….
Assistant Coaches …………………………..
Cheerleaders ………………………………...
Apothecary …………………………………..
The Kick-off Tables …………………………..
Fame ………………………………………….
The Weather Tables ….……………………..
Handing-off The Ball ………………………..
Going For It! ………………………………….
Assisting a Block …………………………....
INTERCEPTIONS & FUMBLES …………..
Fouls, Or Kicking Players That Are Down ..
Skills ………………………………………….
REFEREES ………………………………….
Team Specific Balls ………………………....
BLOOD BOWL LEAGUES …………………..
Starting The League …………………………..
Team Roster …………………………………....
Treasury ………………………………………...
Team Value ……………………………………..
Match Records ………………………………...
Injuries …………………………………………..
Star Player Points ……………………………..
Casualty Table ………………………………....
How To Earn Star Player Points ……………..
Star Player Points Table ……………………....
Casualty Table ………………………………....
Improvement Rolls …………………………….
New Skill ………………………………………..
Characteristics Increases ……………………..
Rolling Doubles ………………………………..
Improvements & Player Values ……………....
PLAYING LEAGUE MATCHES ……………...
Pre-match Sequence ………………………….
Post-match Sequence ………………………...
Expensive Mistakes …………………………...
Inducements In Detail ………………………....
(IN)FAMOUS COACHING STAFF …………..
OPTIONAL LEAGUE RULES ……………….
ROSTERED STAR PLAYERS ……………….
SPONSORSHIP DEALS ……………………..
One-time Sponsorship ………………………...
Ongoing Sponsorship ………………………....
Major Sponsorships …………………………...
STADIUMS ……………………………………..
Becoming Residents …………………………..
Taking Ownership ……………………………...
Partial Payments ……………………………....
Selling Up ……………………………………....
MATCH EVENTS ……………………………...
Special Play Card Variants …………………...
Special Play Cards - Random Events ……….
Special Play Cards - Miscellaneous Mayhem 
Special Play Cards - Magic Memorabilia …...
Special Play Cards - Heroic Feats …………..
Special Play Cards - Benefits Of Training …..
Special Play Cards - Dirty Tricks …………….
Various Cards ………………. ………………....
OPTIONAL LEAGUE RULES FROM LRB6 .
Special Play Cards - LRB6 …………………...
HALL OF FAME ……………………………….
STAR PLAYERS ………………………………
SKILL DESCRIPTIONS ……………………....
TEAM ROSTERS ……………………………...
FAQ ……………………………………………..
CONTENTS

SETTING UP THE GAME
If you cannot set up 3 players on the Line of Scrimmage you must 
either concede the match, or carry on playing by placing as many 
players on the line of scrimmage as possible.
 
THE KICK-OFF
After both teams have set up, the coach of the kicking team 
places the ball in any square in the opponent’s half of the pitch, 
including the opponent’s End Zone if he likes. The ball will then 
scatter in a random direction. Using the Scatter template, roll the 
eight-sided dice once for the direction of scatter, and then roll a 
D6 to see how many squares the ball will go.
 
Important note: The kick-off is the only time that you roll a D6 to 
see how many squares the ball moves when it scatters. This is 
because kicks are very inaccurate. When rolling scatter for a 
missed pass, or when the ball bounces, the ball only moves one 
square per Scatter roll.
 
A kick-off must land in the opponent's half of the pitch. Assuming 
the ball lands in the receiving team’s half of the pitch, then it will 
either land in an empty square or a square occupied by a player. If 
the ball lands in an empty square it will bounce one more square. 
If the ball lands on a square occupied by a player, the player must 
try to catch the ball. If the ball scatters or bounces off the pitch or 
into the kicking team’s half, the receiving coach is awarded a 
‘touchback’ and must give the ball to any player in his team. Once 
the kick-off has been taken you are ready to proceed to the first 
turn of the game.
Before you start, it’s a good idea to read through these rules at 
least once so you get some idea of what you are doing. Once you 
have done this, lay out the board and assemble the plastic 
players. One coach should take all of the Orc players, the other 
the Human ones. The owner of the game always gets the first 
choice as to which team he will play! Each coach will also need a 
Dugout, the appropriate team card and a set of counters. Each 
coach should place his or her Dugout behind one of the End 
Zones. This shows which half of the pitch belongs to each team. 
You score a touchdown by getting the ball into the opposing 
team’s End Zone.
 
Each coach should place a Turn counter in the First Half square 
on the turn track, and a Score counter in the Score track on the 
board nearest their own End Zone. Finally, each coach should 
refer to their team card to see how many Re-roll counters their 
team is entitled to, and should place that many counters on the 
Re-roll track of the Dugout.
 
Flip the Blood Bowl coin or roll a D6 to see which coach will 
choose who will set up first. The team that sets up first is called 
the kicking team, because they will kick-off the ball. The other 
team is called the receiving team, because they will receive the 
kick-off. Each coach must set up 11 players, or if they can't field 
11 then as many players as they have in Reserves, between their 
end zone and the halfway line, and within the following 
restrictions:
 
1. The kicking team always sets up first.
 
2. No more than two players may be set up in each wide zone 
(i.e., a maximum of four players may be split wide, two on each 
flank).
3. At least three players must be set up next to the half way line, 
on the line of scrimmage.
Jim: As any coach will tell you, Bob, a team’s starting formation 
is vitally important. Here we can see an example of the Orcland 
Raiders’ famous 5-4-2 or “Deep Defence” formation. This 
formation is used by the Raiders against fast moving or agile 
teams like Skaven or Elves (some would argue with limited 
success).
 
Bob: You said it, Jim. Notice how the Raiders have made sure 
that there are no gaps in their line for opposing players to run 
through – every square is covered by an Orc player or one of his 
tackle zones.
 
Jim: That’s absolutely right, Bob. And as added insurance the 
Orcs have kept two players back deep, close to their own End 
Zone, so that they can catch any enemy players lucky enough to 
dodge their way through the Orc front line.

THE SEQUENCE OF PLAY
LIST OF ACTIONS
Move: The player may move a number of squares equal to their 
Movement Allowance (MA)
 
Block: The player may make a single block against a player in an 
adjacent square. Players that are Prone may not perform this 
Blitz: The player may move a number of squares equal to their 
MA. He may make one block during the move. The block may be 
made at any point during the move, and ‘costs’ one square of 
movement.
IMPORTANT: This Action may not be declared by more than one 
player per turn. However, any player may perform a Blitz – the 
player doesn’t have to be a Blitzer (Blitzers are just better at it 
than other players).
Pass: The player may move a number of squares equal to his 
MA. At the end of the move the player may pass the ball.
IMPORTANT: This Action may not be declared by more than one 
player per turn.
NOTE: The Extra Rules section adds two additional Actions: Hand 
-off and Foul. Neither of these Actions may be declared by more 
than one player per turn.
TURNOVERS
Normally, a turn only ends when all of the players in the team 
have performed an Action. However, certain events cause the turn 
to end before all of the players have taken an Action. These 
events are called turnovers. The following events cause a 
turnover:
1. A player on the moving team is Knocked Down (being injured 
by the crowd or being Placed Prone is not a turnover unless it is a 
player from the active team holding the ball … e.g. skills like 
Diving Tackle, Piling On and Wrestle count as being Placed 
Prone) or
2. A passed ball, or hand-off, is not caught by any member of the 
moving team before the ball comes to rest or
3. A player from the moving team attempts to pick up the ball and 
fails (note: failing a catch roll, as opposed to a pick up, is by itself 
never a turnover) or
4. A touchdown is scored or
5. A pass attempt is fumbled even if a player from that team 
catches the fumbled ball or
6. A player with the ball is thrown or is attempted to be thrown 
using Throw Team-Mate and fails to land successfully (including 
being eaten or squirming free from an Always Hungry roll) or
 7. A player is ejected by the referee for a foul.
 A coach that suffers a turnover is not allowed to take any further 
actions that turn, and any action being taken ends immediately 
even if it was only partially completed. Make armour and injury 
rolls for players that were knocked down, and if the ball was 
dropped then roll to see where it bounces too normally. Stunned 
players should be turned face up, and then the opposing coach 
may start to take their turn.
Blood Bowl is split into two halves of sixteen turns each (i.e., eight 
turns per coach). At the end of the second half the team with the 
most touchdowns is the winner. The game is played using a 
simple but strict sequence of play, which runs as follows:
A. Receiving Team's Turn
B. Kicking Team's Turn
Repeat A and B, one after the other, until the end of the drive. 
NOTE: A drive is defined as playing until a touchdown is scored 
or the half ends.
During a turn, the team in play may perform one Action with each 
player in the team. A coach is only allowed four minutes to 
complete his turn. The players on the other team may not take 
any Actions until their own turn comes around.
MOVING THE TURN MARKER
Each coach is responsible for keeping track of how many turns 
his team has used, and must move the Turn counter one space 
along the track provided on his Dugout at the start of each and 
every one of his turns. If coaches find themselves regularly 
forgetting to move the Turn marker along, they might agree to use 
the Illegal Procedure special rule, which is found in the Extra 
Rules section later on.
 
PLAYER ACTIONS
Each player in a team may perform one Action per turn. The 
actions that may be performed are described below. When all of 
the players in a team have performed an Action then the turn 
ends and the opposing coach is allowed to take a turn.
 
You must declare which Action a player is going to take before 
carrying out the Action. For example, you might say, “This player 
is going to take a Block Action.”
Players perform Actions one at a time. In other words, the coach 
may perform an Action with one player, and then perform an 
Action with another player, and so on. This carries on until all of 
the players have performed an Action, or the coach does not want 
to perform an Action with any more players. Note that a player 
must finish his Action before another player can take one. Each 
player may only perform one Action per turn. Only one Blitz and 
one Pass Action may be taken in each turn. These Actions must 
be taken by separate players; a player cannot perform a Blitz 
Action and a Pass Action in the same turn.

MOVEMENT
PICKING UP THE BALL
If a player moves into a square in which the ball is lying, they must 
attempt to pick it up, and – if they wish and are able – carry on 
moving.
 
Players that move into the square with the ball at other times (e.g., 
when pushed back, thrown by another player with Throw 
Team-Mate, etc.) cannot pick up the ball, and instead it will 
bounce one square. This does not cause a turnover. .
required to successfully pick up the ball. Roll a D6, and add or 
before modification always fails and a roll of 6 before 
modification always succeeds for any Agility roll made during 
a game.
 
If the final modified score equals or beats the required roll, then 
the player succeeds in picking up the ball. Place the ball on the 
player’s base to show that he has picked it up and carry on with 
the player’s turn. If the D6 roll is less than the required total, then 
the player drops the ball, which will bounce one square. If the 
player drops the ball then his team suffers a turnover and their 
turn ends immediately.
Pick-up Modifiers
Picking up the ball ……………………………... +1
Per opposing tackle zone on the player…..….. +1
 
IMPORTANT: The Agility table is used to work out the success or 
failure of a number of different Actions in Blood Bowl including 
dodging, picking up the ball, and throwing or catching the ball to 
name but a few. Each Action has its own set of modifiers, and it is 
only these modifiers which apply to the D6 roll (i.e., do not use any 
of the Dodging modifiers when attempting to pick up the ball).
A player may move a number of squares equal to his Movement 
Allowance. Players may move in any direction or combination of 
directions, including diagonally, as long as they do not enter a 
square that holds another player (from either team) . Players do 
not have to use up all of their Movement Allowance in their turn; 
they don’t need to move at all if his coach does not want them to.
TACKLE ZONES
A standing player exerts individual tackle zones on each of the 
eight adjacent squares, as shown in the diagram below. A player 
who is Prone or Stunned does not exert any tackle zones.
In order to leave a square that is in one or more opposing tackle 
zones, a player must dodge out of the square. The player only 
has to dodge once in order to leave the square, no matter how 
many opposing tackles zones are on it. Note that you must 
always make a Dodge roll when you leave a tackle zone; even if 
there aren’t any tackle zones on the square you are moving to 
(see the slow-motion replay).
Look up the player’s Agility on the Agility table opposite to find the 
score required to successfully dodge out of the square. For 
example, if the player had an Agility of 3 he would need to roll a 4 
or more to dodge out of the square. Roll a D6, and add or subtract 
any of the modifiers that apply to the D6 roll. A roll of 1 before 
modification always fails and a roll of 6 before modification always 
succeeds.
If the final modified score equals or beats the required roll, the 
player may carry on moving (and dodging if required) until he has 
used up his full Movement Allowance. If the D6 roll is less than the 
required total, then the player is Knocked Down in the square he 
was dodging to and a roll must be made to see if he was injured 
(See Knock Downs & Injuries). If the player is Knocked Down then 
his team suffers a turnover and their turn ends immediately.
Dodging Modifiers
Making a Dodge roll ……………………….. +1
Per opposing tackle zone on the square
that the player is dodging to ……………….. +1

ATTACKER DOWN: The attacking player 
is Knocked Down.
BOTH DOWN: Both players are Knocked 
Down, unless one or both of the players 
involved has the Block skill. If one player uses 
the Block skill then he is not Knocked Down by 
this result, though his opponent will still go 
down. If both the players use the Block skill 
then neither player is Knocked Down.
PUSHED: The defending player is pushed back one 
square by the blocking player. The attacking player 
may follow up the defender.
DEFENDER 
STUMBLES: 
Unless 
defender uses the Dodge skill he is pushed 
back and then Knocked Down. If he does use 
the Dodge skill then he is only pushed back. 
The attacking player may follow up the 
defender.
DEFENDER DOWN: The defending player is 
pushed back and then Knocked Down in the square 
they are moved to. The attacking player may follow 
up the defender.
BLOCKS
The Result
Roll the appropriate number of dice and look up the result on the 
table below. On the table, the player making the block is referred 
to as the attacker, while his target is the defender.
Instead of moving, a player may throw a block at an opposing 
player who is in an adjacent square. You may only make a block 
against a standing player – you may not block a player who has 
already been Knocked Down. A block is a very rough tackle, 
designed to really stop an opponent in his tracks! To see if a 
block works you will need to use the special Block dice included 
with the game.
BLITZ MOVES
Once per turn a player on the moving team is allowed to make a 
special Blitz move. A blitz allows the player to move and make a 
block. The block may be made at any point during the move, but 
costs one square of movement for the player to make. The player 
may carry on moving after the effects of the block have been 
worked out if he has any squares of movement left.
 
STRENGTH
The number of dice that are rolled depends on the strengths of 
the two players involved. Obviously, if one player is stronger than 
the other they are more likely to knock down their opponent when 
they make a block. To represent this, the number of Block dice 
that are rolled varies depending on the relative strengths of the 
players. However, no matter how many dice are rolled, only one 
of them is ever used to decide the result of the block. The coach 
of the stronger player chooses which of the dice is used.
 
If the players’ strengths are EQUAL, one dice is rolled.
 
If one player is STRONGER, two dice are rolled and the stronger 
player may choose which one is used.
 If one player is MORE THAN TWICE AS STRONG, three dice are 
rolled and the stronger player may choose which is used.
 Note that the coach of the player making the block always rolls 
the dice, but that the coach of the stronger player may choose 
which is used.
 
Jim: There goes Dieter Blunt, of the Reikland Reavers and it 
looks to me, Bob, like he’s going to try to move through the 
tackle zones of two Orcland Raiders players! First he tries 
to move to square 1. Dieter has an Agility of 3, which means 
that he needs to roll a basic 4 or more to dodge successfully 
out of the square. He gets a +1 to the roll for making a 
dodge, but has to subtract 2 because there are two Orc 
tackle zones on the square he is moving to, for a final 
modifier of -1. Dieter makes the move – the crowd holds its 
breath – and the D6 roll is a 5, which means that Dieter 
successfully dodges into the square!
Bob: Too right! Dieter moves to square 1 and decides to 
keep on going to square 2. Dieter must still make a Dodge 
roll, though there aren’t any tackle zones on square 2, 
because he is leaving the tackle zones on square 1. There 
are no tackle zones on square 2, which means that Dieter 
gets a +1 modifier to his D6 roll. OH NO! Dieter rolls a 1 and 
comes crashing down. Now he’s lying prone in square 2, 
and what’s more that causes a turnover for the Reavers, so 
it’s the Orcland Raiders to move next!
Player’s AG 1 2 3 4 5 6+ 
D6 Roll Required 6+ 5+ 4+ 3+ 2+ 1+ 
DODGING MODIFIERS 
Making a Dodge roll +1
Per opposing tackle zone on the square
that the player is dodging to +1

Knock Downs: A player that is Knocked Down should be placed 
on their side in the square, face up. The player may be injured. If 
the player who is Knocked Down comes from the moving team, 
then this caused a turnover and the moving team's turn ends 
immediately!
Follow Up Moves: A player who has made a block is allowed to 
make a special follow up move and occupy a square vacated by 
the player that they have pushed back. The player’s coach must 
decide whether to follow up before any other dice rolls are made. 
This move is free, and the player can ignore enemy tackle zones 
when he makes the move (i.e., he does not have to dodge to enter 
the square). Players that are blitzing are allowed to make follow 
up moves, and the move does not cost them any of their 
movement (as they paid a square in order to make the block, they 
have effectively already paid for the move).
Jim: And there goes Skurf Limbrender, the Orcland Raiders’ star 
Black Orc Blocker. He’s just blitzed down the pitch and now he’s 
going to throw a block at Jacob von Altdorf, the Reavers’ 
Thrower. Skurf’s got a Strength of 4, compared to Jacob’s 3, 
which means that Skurf can roll two Block dice and choose which 
one he will use. He rolls a (Attacker Down) and a (Defender 
Down), and uses the ‘Defender Down’ result to smash Jacob 
back a square and knock him flat on his back in the mud – 
KERRUNCH!
PLAYER’S STRENGTHS ROLL
Both players equal strength One Block Dice
One Player Stronger Two Block Dice*
One player more than twice Three Block Dice*
as strong
* The coach of the stronger player picks which block dice is 
used.
Push Backs: A player that is pushed back as a result of a block 
must be moved one square away from the player making the 
block, as shown in the diagrams. The coach of the player who 
made the block may decide which square the player is moved to. 
The player must be pushed back into an empty square if possible. 
A square containing only the ball is considered empty and a player 
pushed to it will cause the ball to bounce. If all such squares are 
occupied by other players, then the player is pushed into an 
occupied square, and the player that originally occupied the 
square is pushed back in turn. This secondary push back is 
treated exactly like a normal push back as if the second player 
had been blocked by the first (prone and stunned players may be 
pushed this way as well). The coach of the moving team decides 
all push back directions for secondary push backs unless the 
pushed player has a skill that overrides this.
Players must be pushed off the pitch if there are no eligible empty 
squares on the pitch. A player pushed off the pitch, even if 
Knocked Down, is beaten up only by the crowd and receives one 
roll on the Injury Table (see Injuries, opposite). The crowd does 
not have any injury modifying skills.
Note that no Armour roll is made for a player that is pushed off the 
pitch, they are automatically injured. If a ‘Stunned’ result is rolled 
on the Injury table the player should be placed in the Reserves 
box of the Dugout, and must remain there until a touchdown is 
scored or the half ends. If the player who is holding the ball is 
pushed out of bounds, then he is beaten up by the fans, who are 
more than happy to throw the ball back into play! The throw-in is 
centred on the last square the player was in before he was 
pushed off the pitch.

KNOCK DOWNS AND INJURIES
Players that are Knocked Down or Placed Prone for any reason 
should be placed face up on the pitch in the square they were in 
when they fell over. While Prone, the player loses his tackle 
zones and may do nothing before standing up at a cost of three 
squares of his movement when he next takes an Action. Players 
may stand up in an opposing player’s tackle zone without having 
to make a Dodge roll (they will have to dodge if they subsequently 
leave). Note that a player who stands up may not take a Block 
Action, because you may not move when you take a Block Action. 
The player may take any Action other than a Block Action.
Left: Player on his side, lying face up (Prone). Right: Standing 
player.
A player who is carrying the ball and who is knocked down or 
placed prone will drop the ball in the square where they fall. The 
dropped ball will bounce one square in a random direction) after 
the player's armour and injury rolls (if any) are fully resolved.
INJURIES
Unless the rules state otherwise, any player that is Knocked 
Down may be injured. The opposing coach rolls two D6 and adds 
their scores together in an attempt to try to beat the Knocked 
Down player’s Armour value. If the roll succeeds, then the 
opposing coach is allowed to roll on the Injury table in the next 
column to see what injury the player has suffered.
STANDING UP
The only time a player can stand up is at the beginning of an 
Action at a cost of three squares from his movement. If the player 
has less than three squares of movement, he must roll 4+ to 
stand up - if he stands up successfully, he may not move further 
squares unless he Goes For It. Failure to stand successfully for 
any reason is not a turnover.
SUBSTITUTES
You may not substitute fit players for injured players or players 
that have been sent off while a drive is in progress. The only time 
that you may add reserves is when you are setting up after a 
touchdown has been scored, or when setting up after half time or 
for overtime.
INJURY TABLE
2-7
Stunned – Leave the player on the pitch, but turn 
them face-down. All face-down players are turned face 
up at the end of their team's next turn, even if a 
turnover takes place. Note that a player may not turn 
face up on the turn they are Stunned. Once face-up 
they may stand up on any subsequent turn using the 
normal rules.
8-9
KO’d – Take the player off the pitch and place them in 
the Dugout in the KO’d Players box. At the next 
kick-off, before you set up any players, roll for each of 
your players that have been KO’d. On a roll of 1-3 they 
must remain in the KO’d box and may not be used, 
although you may roll again for them at the next 
kick-off. On a roll of 4-6 you must return the player to 
the Reserves box and can use them as normal from 
now on.
10-12
Casualty – Take the player off the pitch and place 
them in the Dugout in the Dead & Injured Players box. 
The player must miss the rest of the match. In league 
play roll on the Casualty table to see exactly what has 
happened to the player.

THROWING THE BALL
required to successfully pass the ball. Roll a D6, and add or 
If the final modified score equals or beats the required roll, the 
pass is accurate and lands in the target square. If the D6 roll is 
less than the required total, then the pass is not accurate and will 
scatter. Roll for scatter three times, one after the other, to see 
where the ball ends up. Note that each of the Scatter rolls is made 
separately, so it is possible for the ball to end up back in the target 
square (though it will be harder to catch). The ball can only be 
caught in the final square where it ends up – if it scatters through 
a player’s square then the player is not allowed to try and catch 
 
NOTE: Extra rules allow for throwers to fumble the pass and for 
opponents to attempt pass interceptions.
Once per turn a player on the moving team is allowed to make a 
Pass Action. The player is allowed to make a normal move, and 
after he has completed the move he may throw the ball even if 
the receiver is in an adjacent square. Note that the player does 
not have to be holding the ball at the start of the Action; he could 
use his move to run over and pick up a ball on the ground and 
then throw it, for example.
required to successfully pass the ball. Roll a D6, and add or 
 
THROWING
First of all, the coach must declare that the player is taking a Pass 
Action. The player can throw the ball to another player in his own 
team (or another player in the opposing team if he really wants 
to), or simply to an empty square, though obviously the first of 
these options will be the most useful – and may keep him from 
being attacked by his own team members! The ball may only be 
passed once per turn.
Next, the coach must measure the range using the range ruler. It 
is perfectly acceptable to pre-measure the range to several 
players at any point during the throwing player's move before you 
declare the target of the pass. Once you have thrown the ball, 
however, you may not move the throwing player any farther that 
turn, even if he has spare MA left.
Bob: And there’s Grishnak Goblin-Throttler for the Orcland 
Raiders, who has an Agility of 3 and is attempting to throw the 
ball four squares to Urgash Axebiter. The range ruler shows that 
this falls just on the boundary between a Quick and a Short Pass, 
so the longer of the two ranges must be used.
Jim: That’s right, Bob. Grishnak’s Agility of 3 means that he must 
roll a 4 or more to be on target. No modifiers apply to the D6 roll 
because Grishnak is not in any tackle zones, and the modifier for 
a Short Pass is +0. Grishnak’s arm goes back and he throws a 6. 
Look at that ball go, bam!, right on target!! Now all Axebiter has to 
do is catch it...
Bob: You said it, Jim. It’s an accurate pass so Urgash gets a +1 
to his D6 roll, but there’s Griff Oberwald next to him, so his 
chances of catching suffers a -1 modifier, which means that 
Urgash needs a 4+ to catch the ball. The crowd goes quiet as the 
dice are rolled. A 3 – he’s dropped it, and the ball bounces away 
one square.
Jim: And if I can just butt in here, Bob, that missed pass causes a
turnover, which ends the Orcland Raiders’ turn...
CATCHING ROLL

Bob: And there’s Grishnak Goblin-Throttler for the Orcland 
Raiders, who has an Agility of 3 and is attempting to throw the 
ball four squares to Urgash Axebiter. The range ruler shows that 
this falls just on the boundary between a Quick and a Short Pass, 
so the longer of the two ranges must be used.
Jim: That’s right, Bob. Grishnak’s Agility of 3 means that he must 
roll a 4 or more to be on target. No modifiers apply to the D6 roll 
because Grishnak is not in any tackle zones, and the modifier for 
a Short Pass is +0. Grishnak’s arm goes back and he throws a 6. 
Look at that ball go, bam!, right on target!! Now all Axebiter has to 
do is catch it...
Bob: You said it, Jim. It’s an accurate pass so Urgash gets a +1 
to his D6 roll, but there’s Griff Oberwald next to him, so his 
chances of catching suffers a -1 modifier, which means that 
Urgash needs a 4+ to catch the ball. The crowd goes quiet as the 
dice are rolled. A 3 – he’s dropped it, and the ball bounces away 
one square.
Jim: And if I can just butt in here, Bob, that missed pass causes a
turnover, which ends the Orcland Raiders’ turn...
CATCHING ROLL
PASSING ROLL
PASSING MODIFIERS
Throwing a Quick Pass
+1
Throwing a Short Pass
Throwing a Long Pass
Throwing a Long Bomb
-2
Per enemy tackle zone
on the player throwing the ball
CATCHING MODIFIERS
Catching an accurate pass
+1
Catching a scattered pass,
Bouncing ball or throw-in
Per enemy tackle zone
on the player throwing the ball
required to successfully catch the ball. Roll a D6, and add or 
If the final modified score equals or beats the required roll, then 
the player succeeds in catching the ball. Place the ball on the 
player’s base to show that they have caught it and carry on with 
the turn. If the player who caught the ball has not taken an Action 
yet, he may do so as normal. If the D6 roll is less than the required 
total, then the player drops the ball which will bounce (see 
Bouncing Balls, below).
Passing Modifiers
Throwing a Quick Pass ………………………………….. +1
Throwing a Short Pass ………………………………….. +0
Throwing a Long Pass .………………………………….. -1
Throwing a Long Bomb ………………………………….. -2
Per opposing tackle zone on the player…………….….. -1
CATCHING THE BALL
If the ball lands in a square occupied by a standing player, then 
the player must attempt to catch the ball. Prone and Stunned 
players may never attempt to catch the ball. Either team’s players 
may attempt to catch the ball (if a player from the other team 
manages to catch the ball he can yell and jump around a lot).

THROW-INS
When a ball scatters or bounces off the pitch it is immediately 
thrown back in by the eager spectators! Use the Throw-in 
template to work out where the ball goes, using the last square the 
ball crossed before going off as a starting point to throw-in the ball 
2d6 squares. If the ball is thrown into a square occupied by a 
standing player, that player must attempt to catch the ball as 
described earlier. If the ball lands in an empty square or a square 
occupied by a Prone or Stunned player, then it will bounce. If a 
throw-in results in the ball going off the pitch again, it will be 
thrown in again, centred on the last square it was in before it left 
the pitch. Throw-ins cannot be intercepted.
 
TURNOVERS
If a ball thrown by a player isn’t caught by a player from the 
moving team, this causes a turnover and the moving team’s turn 
ends. The turnover does not take place until the ball finally comes 
to rest. This means that if the ball misses the target but is still 
caught by a player from the moving team, then a turnover does 
not take place. The ball could even scatter or bounce out of 
bounds, be thrown back into an empty square, and as long as it 
was caught by a player from the moving team then the turnover 
would be avoided!
Catching Modifiers
Catching an accurate pass…..………………………….. +1
Catching a missed pass, kick-off,
Bouncing ball or throw-in……………………………….. +0 
Per opposing tackle zone on the player…………….….. -1
BOUNCING BALLS
If the ball is dropped or not caught, or the ball bounces to a 
square with a Prone or Stunned player, or a player is pushed to or 
lands in the ball’s square, or the square where a thrown ball lands 
is unoccupied (or is occupied by a Prone or Stunned player) then 
it will bounce. This is a technical term for the thing jumping about 
all over the place while the players stumble about trying to grab it! 
To find out where the ball bounces to, roll for scatter one more 
time. If the ball bounces into an occupied square, then the player 
in the square must attempt to catch it, as described above. If the 
player fails to catch the ball, then it will bounce again until it is 
either caught or bounces into an empty square or off the pitch.
RE-ROLLS
SKILLS
Many players are described as having one or more skills. These 
are special abilities that modify the player’s performance. Some 
skills allow dice re-rolls as described above, while others allow a 
player to carry out a special Action. A full description of each skill 
is given opposite, and reproduced on the back of the quick 
reference sheet. The complete list of skills is given later on in this 
book, for now stick with the skills listed here. You’ll need to refer to 
the sheet quite a lot during your first few games – but don’t worry, 
the effects of the skills will become very familiar.
Re-rolls are very important in Blood Bowl, as you will quickly 
discover. There are two types of re-rolls: team re-rolls and player 
re-rolls. In either case, a re-roll allows you to re-roll all the dice 
that produced any one result. So, for example, a re-roll could be 
used to re-roll a dodge, in which case the single dice rolled would 
be thrown again, or a three dice block, in which case all three dice 
would be rolled again, and so on.
VERY IMPORTANT: No matter how many re-rolls you have, or 
what type they are, you may never re-roll a single dice roll more 
than once.
TEAM RE-ROLLS
Team re-rolls represent how well trained a team is. A coach may 
use a team re-roll to re-roll any dice roll (other than Armour, Injury 
or Casualty rolls) made by a player in their own team and who is 
still on the pitch during their own turn (even if the dice roll was 
successful). The result of the new roll must be accepted in place 
of the first, even if it is worse. A coach may not use more than 
one Re-roll counter per turn, and may not use a Re-roll counter to 
force the opposing coach to re-roll a dice roll.
Each coach must keep track of the number of re-rolls they have 
left on the track provided on their Dugout. Every time a coach 
uses up a team re-roll he must remove a counter from the track. 
When there are no markers left the coach may not use any more 
team re-rolls that half. At half time the two teams get a chance to 
rest and recuperate, and so their team re-rolls are restored to 
their starting level.
PLAYER RE-ROLLS
Some players have skills that allow them to re-roll the dice under 
certain circumstances. For example, a thrower has the Pass skill 
which allows him to re-roll the dice if he misses a pass. A coach 
may use any number of player re-rolls in the same turn, and a 
single player may use a skill any number of times in the same 
match. However, as noted above, a single dice roll may not be 
re-rolled more than once.
The Block skill, if used, affects the result rolled with 
the Block dice, as explained in the Blocking rules..
Catch:
A player that has the Catch skill is allowed to re-roll 
the dice if he fails to catch the ball. If you are using 
the Extra Rules printed later, then the Catch skill 
also allows the player to re-roll the dice if he drops 
a hand-off or fails to make an interception.
Dodge:
A player with the Dodge skill is allowed to re-roll the 
D6 if he fails to dodge out of an opposing player’s 
tackle zone. However, the player may only re-roll 
one failed Dodge roll per turn. So, if the player kept 
on moving and failed a second Dodge roll, he could 
not use the skill again. Secondly, the Dodge skill , if 
used, affects the results rolled with the Block dice 
(see the rules for Blocks).
Pass:
A player with the Pass skill is allowed to re-roll the 
D6 if he misses a pass.
Sure 
Hands:
A player with the Sure Hands skill is allowed to 
re-roll the D6 if he fails to pick up the ball. In 
addition, if you are using the Extra Rules printed 
later, an opposing player who has the Strip Ball skill 
may not use it against a player who has Sure 
Hands.

Note that you can’t ‘go back’ in time and use a skill or re-roll to 
affect an earlier Action. For example, if a player was blitzing, you 
couldn’t have him throw a block, move a couple of squares, and 
then say “Actually, I think I’ll use my Pro skill to re-roll that block.”
– the skill or re-roll must be used directly before or after the event 
it will affect or not at all.
Many players have skills such as catch, pass etc. Unless stated 
otherwise in the skill description you never have to use a skill just 
because the player’s got it, and you can choose to use a skill that 
affects a dice roll after rolling the dice. For example, you could 
say you were going to use the Catch skill either before or after 
making a Catch D6 roll.
Some skills are also used in the opponent’s turn. In this case you 
may choose to use the skill after an opposing player carries out 
an Action or moves a square. If both coaches want to use a skill 
to affect the same Action or move, then the coach whose turn is 
taking place must use his skill first.
WINNING THE MATCH
If a player from the moving team has the ball and enters the 
opposing team's End Zone, then they may not voluntarily leave it 
for any reason during the same action nor may they hand-off or 
pass the ball - they are far too intent on scoring the touchdown 
themselves!
SCORING IN THE OPPONENT’S TURN
In some rare cases a team will score a touchdown in the 
opponent’s turn. For example, a player holding the ball could be 
pushed into the End Zone by a block. If one of your players is 
holding the ball in the opposing team's End Zone at any point 
during your opponent's turn then your team scores a touchdown 
immediately, but must move their Turn marker one space along 
the Turn track to represent the extra time the players spend 
celebrating this unusual method of scoring!
RESTARTING THE MATCH
After a touchdown has been scored, and at the start of the second 
half, play is restarted and the match continues. Before the kick-off 
however each coach should roll one D6 for each KO’d player on 
his team. On a roll of 4, 5 or 6 the player is fit enough to return to 
play, but on any other result they must stay in the KO’d box in the 
Dugout.
Both coaches may then set up any fit players just as they did at 
the start of the game. When play is restarted after a touchdown, 
the scoring team is always the one to kick off. At the start of the 
second half, the kicking team is the one that did not kick off at the 
start of the first half.
In the rare event that one team has no players to set up after KO’d 
rolls, both teams' turn markers are moved forward along the turn 
track two spaces and if one team could field at least one player 
then that team is awarded a touchdown (however no player 
receives Star Player points for this.) If this takes the number of 
turns to 8 or more for both teams, then the half ends. If there are 
still turns left in the half, then continue playing as if a drive has just 
ended (i.e. clear the pitch and roll for KO'd players).
CONCEDING THE MATCH
You may choose to concede a match at the start of one of your 
own turns, before moving the Turn marker along the track.
Blood Bowl is split into two halves of sixteen turns each (eight 
turns per coach, per half). Each coach is responsible for keeping 
track of how many turns his team has used, and must move the 
marker one space along the track provided on his Dugout at the 
start of each of his turns, as explained earlier. Play stops when 
both coaches have had eight turns each, giving the players the 
chance of a much needed rest, and for the coaches to replenish 
the team’s full complement of re-roll counters on the team re-roll 
track. Play restarts with another kick-off at the start of the second 
half.
The team with the most touchdowns at the end of the last turn of 
the second half is the winner. If the match is tied at the end of the 
second half it is declared a draw unless both coaches agree to go 
into ‘sudden death overtime’. Flip the Blood Bowl coin to see 
which coach chooses who kicks-off, and then play a third series 
of eight turns per team. Any re-rolls still remaining at the end of 
the second half (including re-rolls earned from Kick-off events, 
Inducements or Special Play cards) are carried over and may be 
used in overtime, but teams do not receive new allocations of 
re-rolls as they normally would at the start of a new half. The first 
team to score wins the match. If neither team scores, then the 
match is decided by a penalty shoot-out; each coach rolls a D6, 
high score wins, re-roll ties! Each unused team re-roll adds 1 to 
the D6 score.
SCORING TOUCHDOWNS IN YOUR TURN
A team scores a touchdown during their turn when one of their 
players is standing in the opposing team’s End Zone while 
holding the ball at the end of any of your players' Actions. As 
soon as this happens, play stops, the crowd cheers and whistles 
and cheerleaders dance about waving pom-poms. The coach of 
the scoring team has our permission to leap about and cheer a bit 
too, while moving the score marker one space along the scoring 
track on the Playing Pitch.
Any player may enter either End Zone at any time, even if they 
are not carrying the ball. If the ball is thrown to them and they 
catch it, or they are able to pick up the ball while in their 
opponent’s End Zone, they score a touchdown. Note, however, 
that in order to score a touchdown the player must end his Action 
standing in the End Zone; if the player failed to make a Dodge 
roll, for example, and thus was Knocked Down in the End Zone 
then he would not score a touchdown. 

EXTRA RULES
All of the following extra rules are optional. This means that both coaches must agree which extra rules (if any) they are going to use 
before the match starts. However, they are all highly recommended and you’ll find that using them provides an even more exciting and 
interesting game without slowing down the mayhem and destruction much at all! Give ’em a try!
Your team’s Fan Factor represents how popular the team is, and 
can have important effects on the results you roll on the Kick-Off 
Table. All teams start with a Fan Factor of 0. When you create 
your team, you may purchase up to 9 additional Fan Factor for 
10,000 gold pieces each. Each point of Fan Factor your team has 
adds 10,000 to the team’s value.
COACHING STAFF
A team’s coaching staff provides vital back-up to the team’s 
players. Coaching staff are never allowed on the pitch. They must 
stay on the sidelines during the match. Any team may include the 
following coaching staff on their roster:
Head Coach (AKA ‘The Manager’ or ‘Da boss’)
This model represents you, and so does not cost any gold to hire 
for the team. During a match your main job is to yell and shout at 
the players in your team in order to inspire them and, more 
importantly, to yell and shout at the referee if he makes a call 
against your team. Any time a player is sent off for committing a 
foul or using a Secret Weapon, you can ‘Argue the call’. Roll a D6. 
On a roll of 6, the the referee accepts your arguments and the 
player in question is only sent to the Reserves box instead of 
being sent off entirely. On a roll of a 1, the referee has had 
enough of your lip and ejects you from the game! For the rest of 
the game you cannot argue any calls, and if the ‘Brilliant 
Coaching’ result is rolled on the Kick-off table, subtract 1 from 
your dice roll. A turnover is still caused if argue the call is 
successful. Argue the call may be used in before or after a Bribe, 
however the Bribe only applies for the player, not the Head 
Coach.
Apart from the teams you will read about in this rulebook, there 
are many others playing in leagues all over the known world. 
There are many other Human and Orc teams, for example, which 
you can play using the plastic models from this set.
 
All the different races that play Blood Bowl (as well as specific 
teams and Star Players) will receive detailed coverage in later 
sections. However, so you can get started with your very own 
Blood Bowl team straight away, this section presents basic rules 
for the most popular Blood Bowl playing races. You can either 
use the plastic playing pieces provided with the game to 
represent the players in your team, or collect the Citadel 
miniatures from your local stockist or through Games Workshop’s 
Mail Order service.
 
TEAM ROSTER SHEETS
 The pad of team rosters is used to record the playing 
characteristics of the team for use by both players to see while 
playing (ie you cannot hide your team's roster from your 
opponent). Owners of Blood Bowl are given permission to 
photocopy team roster sheets for their personal use only. There 
are many other boxes on the roster sheet not covered in this 
section. Do not worry about those now as they are needed for 
league play which is covered later.
BUYING PLAYERS
In order to create your team you have a treasury of 1,000,000 
gold pieces. This represents the cash you have managed to raise 
from sponsors or by other, more underhanded means to hire the 
players for your team. The first step in actually creating the team 
is to study the team lists and decide which you want to use. All of 
the players in your team must be from the same team list. So, for 
example, a High Elf team may not include Human players 
because these players come from a different team list.
Having decided on which team list you will use, you must now 
hire the players for your team. Each of the players in your team 
will cost a number of gold pieces, as indicated on the lists. The 
team list also indicates the maximum number of each type of 
player you are allowed to take for your team. So, for example, a 
Human team may not have more than two Throwers. In addition, 
your team must have at least 11 players and may not have more 
than 16. Within these restrictions you may have any number and 
type of player, just so long as you have the cash to hire them.
TEAM RE-ROLLS AND FAN FACTOR
When you create a team you do not get any team re-rolls or Fan 
Factor for free – you have to pay for them from your treasury. 
Each re-roll costs the number of gold pieces shown on the team 
list for the team that you have chosen, and allows you to re-roll 
one dice roll per half. If you’ve played any games using the core 
rules you will know just how important team re-rolls are, and it is a 
good idea to take at least one or two for your team.
CREATING A BLOOD BOWL TEAM
Assistant Coaches
Assistant coaches include offensive and defensive coordinators, 
special team coaches, personal trainers for your legendary 
players and numerous others. As a team becomes more 
successful the number of assistant coaches on its roster just 
seems to grow and grow. The more assistant coaches you have 
on your team, the more likely you are to win the ‘Brilliant 
Coaching’ result on the Kick-Off Table.
Each assistant coach you add to the team costs 10,000 gold 
pieces and should be given a different job title. Assistant coaches 
do not have to be represented by models, but it’s much more fun if 
they are!
Cheerleaders
Most Blood Bowl teams have a troupe or two of cheerleaders both 
to inspire the team’s players and their fans. It’s the team’s 
cheerleaders’ job to whip the fans into a state of frenzy and lead 
the chanting and singing as the crowd’s shouts and howls build up 
to a deafening crescendo. The more cheerleaders you have on 
your team, the more likely you are to win the ‘Cheering Fans’ 
result on the Kick-Off Table.
 
Cheerleaders cost 10,000 gold pieces each. Cheerleaders do not 
have to be represented by cheerleader models, but it’s much more 
fun if they are!

Instead of purchasing an Apothecary, Necromantic and Undead 
teams use the services of a Necromancer. The Necromancer is 
free to the team and allows the team once per a match to ‘Raise 
the Dead’. If a player on the opposing team with Strength 4 or less 
that does not have Regeneration or Stunty is killed during the 
match (after Apothecary attempt if any) then the team may 
immediately place a new Zombie player in the Reserves box of 
their dugout (this may cause a team to have more than 16 players 
for the remainder of the match). During Step 5 of Updating Your 
Team Roster, you may add this player to your roster for free if you 
have less than 16 players on the team. A free Zombie still counts 
at full value towards the team value.
Apothecary
An Apothecary is a healer wise in the ways of medicine and the 
healing arts who looks after the injured players in a Blood Bowl 
team – and so has a strenuous and full-time job! It costs 50,000 
gold pieces to purchase an Apothecary to permanently look after 
your team during a match. He may be represented by an 
appropriate Citadel miniature if you wish. A team may not have 
more than one purchased Apothecary. Khemri, Necromantic, 
Nurgle and Undead teams may not purchase or use an 
Apothecary.
During a match, an Apothecary may attempt to cure a player who 
has suffered a Casualty or been KO'd. An Apothecary can be 
used only once per match. If the player was KO'd leave him on 
the pitch Stunned or in the Reserves box if not on the pitch. 
Otherwise immediately after the player suffers the Casualty, you 
can use the Apothecary to make your opponent roll again on the 
Casualty table and then you choose which of the two results to 
apply. If the player is only Badly Hurt after this roll (even if it was 
the original Casualty roll) the Apothecary has managed to patch 
him up and pump him full of painkillers so that the player may be 
moved into the Reserves box.
The Fans and FAME
A large number of spectators attend every game of Blood Bowl, 
some to support one team, some to support another. Others just 
come to enjoy the spectacle. The number supporting one team 
compared to the other can have a big effect on the outcome of the 
game. To determine how many fans turn up to support your team, 
roll 2D6 and add your Fan Factor to the total. Multiply the score by 
1,000 to find the number of fans that have turned up to support 
your team. For example, the Lowdown Ratz have a Fan Factor of 
5. 2D6 are rolled to see how many fans attend. The dice rolls are 
2 and 6. Add in the Fan Factor of 5 for a total of 13, which means 
that 13,000 rat fans have turned up for the match.
The number of fans supporting your team can easily effect which 
team wins or loses. Their cheers can encourage extraordinary 
effort from your players or a well aimed rock-filled can of 
Bloodweiser from a fan can forever remove an opposing star. To 
represent the effect the fans have on a match, each team has a 
Fan Advantage ModifiEr (abbreviated to FAME) that can affect 
some of the results on the Kick-Off table and your winnings in the 
Post-game. If the roll for the gate means that your team is being 
supported by an equal number or fewer fans than the opposition, 
then your FAME for the match is zero. If you have more fans 
attending the match than your opponent, your FAME is +1 for the 
match. In the exceptional case that your team has drawn in twice 
as many or more fans than your opponent, your FAME for the 
match will be +2 instead.
All kinds of things can happen during a Blood Bowl match: a team 
may make an inspired play, or raucous fans might throw a large 
heavy object (e.g., a rock!) at one of the opposing team's players, 
or even invade the pitch!
The Kick-Off table is used to recreate these unforeseen but fairly 
common events. After both teams have set up, follow this 
sequence in the order below:
• Place the ball on the pitch
Scatter ball to determine where the ball is about to land
Roll on the Kick-Off table
Resolve the Kick-Off table result
• Bounce/ catch/or touchback the ball
Selecting a Random Player
Many of the results on the Kick-Off table require that a coach 
‘select a random player’. In order to help you do this we have 
included a set of ‘Randomiser' counters numbered from 1 to 16. 
Each counter corresponds to the player with the same number on 
the team roster. To select one or more player at random, simply 
place the counters for any players who could be affected in a mug 
or similar opaque container, and then draw one or more counters 
from the mug as or when required.
Team Re-Rolls and the Kick-off Table
You may not re-roll the result on the Kick-Off table with a team 
re-roll. In addition, subsequent rolls from Kick-Off events such as 
the D3 roll for Brilliant Coaching or D6 for Riot may not be 
re-rolled. A team re-roll may not be used for any catch roll when 
the ball lands: however, players may use the Catch or Pro skill to 
try to re-roll the catch roll.
THE KICK-OFF TABLE

KICK-OFF TABLE
Get the Ref: The fans exact gruesome revenge on 
the referee for some of the dubious decisions he has 
made, either during this match or in the past. His 
replacement is so intimidated that he can be more 
easily persuaded to look the other way. Each team 
receives 1 additional Bribe to use during this game. 
A Bribe allows you to attempt to ignore one call by 
the referee for a player who has committed a foul to 
be sent off, or a player armed with a secret weapon 
to be banned from the match. Roll a D6: on a roll of 
2-6 the bribe is effective (preventing a turnover if the 
player was ejected for fouling), but on a roll of 1 the 
bribe is wasted and the call still stands! Each bribe 
may be used once per match.
Riot: The trash talk between two opposing players 
explodes and rapidly degenerates, involving the rest 
of the players. If the receiving team’s turn marker is 
on turn 7 for the half, both teams move their turn 
marker back one space as the referee resets the 
clock back to before the fight started. If the receiving 
team has not yet taken a turn this half the referee 
lets the clock run on during the fight and both teams’ 
turn markers are moved forward one space. 
Otherwise roll a D6. On a 1-3, both teams’ turn 
markers are moved forward one space. On a 4-6, 
both team’s turn markers are moved back one 
space.
Perfect Defence: The kicking team’s coach may 
reorganize his players – in other words he can set 
them up again into another legal defence. The 
receiving team must remain in the set-up chosen by 
their coach.
High Kick: The ball is kicked very high, allowing a 
player on the receiving team time to move into the 
perfect position to catch it. Any one player on the 
receiving team who is not in an opposing player’s 
tackle zone may be moved into the square where 
the ball will land no matter what their MA may be, as 
long as the square is unoccupied.
Cheering Fans: Each coach rolls a D3 and adds 
their team’s FAME and the number of cheerleaders 
on their team to the score. The team with the 
highest score is inspired by their fans' cheering and 
gets an extra re-roll this half. If both teams have the 
same score, then both teams get a re-roll.
Changing Weather: Make a new roll on the 
Weather table. Apply the new Weather roll. If the 
new Weather roll was a ‘Nice’ result, then a gentle 
gust of wind makes the ball scatter one extra square 
in a random direction before landing.
Brilliant Coaching: Each coach rolls a D3 and adds 
their FAME and the number of assistant coaches on 
their team to the score. The team with the highest 
total gets an extra team re-roll this half thanks to the 
brilliant instruction provided by the coaching staff. In 
case of a tie both teams get an extra team re-roll.
Quick Snap! The offence start their drive a fraction 
before the defence is ready, catching the kicking 
team flat-footed. All of the players on the receiving 
team are allowed to move one square. This is a free 
move and may be made into any adjacent empty 
square, ignoring tackle zones. It may be used to 
enter the opposing half of the pitch.
Blitz! The defence start their drive a fraction before 
the offence is ready, catching the receiving team 
flat-footed. The kicking team receives a free ‘bonus’ 
turn: however, players that are in an enemy tackle 
zone at the beginning of this free turn may not 
perform an Action. The kicking team may use team 
re-rolls during a Blitz. If any player suffers a turnover 
then the bonus turn ends immediately.
Throw a Rock: An enraged fan hurls a large rock at 
one of the players on the opposing team. Each 
coach rolls a D6 and adds their FAME to the roll. 
The fans of the team that rolls higher are the ones 
that threw the rock. In the case of a tie a rock is 
thrown at each team! Decide randomly which player 
in the other team was hit (only players on the pitch 
are eligible) and roll for the effects of the injury 
straight away. No Armour roll is required.
Pitch Invasion: Both coaches roll a D6 for each 
opposing player on the pitch and add their FAME to 
the roll. If a roll is 6 or more after modification then 
the player is Stunned (players with the Ball & Chain 
skill are KO'd). A roll of 1 before adding FAME will 
always have no effect.

BLITZMANIA KICK-OFF TABLE
UM... WHERE'S THE REF: Both teams are lined up, 
waiting for the whistle to blow, when they realise that 
the Ref's nowhere to be seen! Looks like it's time for 
some Blitzmania-style anarchy. For the duration of 
this drive, any number of players can make a Foul 
action each turn. In addition, players cannot be sent 
off for Fouling, using Secret Weapons, or anything 
else.
BREAKING SCANDAL: A wave of excited 
conversation ripples through the crowd... a fresh 
scandal has come to light, and the new vendors 
outside the stadium have got all the juicy gossip! 
Each player rolls a D3 and reduces their FAME by 
that much for the rest of the match, as fans 
stampede out of the stadium - and yes, FAME can 
go into negative figures. In addition, each player 
rolls a D6 for each of their players that is within 2 
squares of the sidelines. On a roll of 1 or 2, they are 
Knocked Down by errant fans.
BOLSTER THE LINE: From the Dugout, the offence 
looks pretty weak -- and the benched players decide 
to do something about it! The receiving player rolls a 
D6 for each player in their Reserves box. On a result 
of 4, 5 or 6, that player can be set up in their team's 
End Zone.
ROGUE BALL: One of the fans has not only 
brought their replica Blood Bowl ball to the game, 
they've decided to fling it onto the pitch just as the 
real ball's in the air! The kicking team's coach places 
a second ball anywhere in the receiving team's half 
-- this will scatter in the same way as the first ball, 
once the first ball's scatter has been resolved. 
Players may not pick-up, catch or intercept a ball if 
they are already carrying one. A ball bouncing into 
the square with the other ball will bounce again. 
After each player has had one turn, pick one ball at 
random; that ball (revealed as the replica) bursts, 
and is removed from play.
BLOODTHIRSTY FANS: Goaded on by the 
screaming fans, one player snaps and starts the 
violence a moment early! Each coach rolls a D3 and 
adds their FAME and the number of cheerleaders on 
their team to the score. Re-roll ties. A random player 
on the team with the highest score is driven to an 
act of bloodlust, and can immediately make a Blitz 
action.
CHANGING WEATHER: Make a new roll on the 
Weather table. Apply the new Weather roll. If the 
new Weather roll was a ‘Nice’ result, then a gentle 
gust of wind makes the ball scatter one extra square 
in a random direction before landing.
QUESTIONABLE COACHING: Each coach rolls a 
D3 and adds their FAME and the number of 
assistant coaches on their team to the score. The 
coach of the team with the lowest total has upset 
one of the players with a last-minute call, and they 
head back to the Dugout to set things straight -- 
missing the drive in the process! One randomly 
determined player from that team (or both teams in 
case of a tie) that is on the pitch is placed in the 
Reserves box.
VIOLENT OUTBURST: The offense has been 
worked into a frenzy before lining up for the kick-off. 
Every player on the receiving team that is adjacent 
to one (and only one) enemy player can immediately 
make a bonus Block action. Team re-rolls cannot be 
made during these actions, and if a player on the 
receiving team is Knocked Down, the bonus actions 
come to an end and no more Blocks can be thrown.
SNEAKY SPRINT: One player on the defense 
makes use of a distraction in the crowd to dash into 
the other team's half. A random player on the kicking 
team who is not on the line of scrimmage, and is not 
in an enemy player's tackle zone is removed from 
play. The kicking team's coach can then set them up 
anywhere in the receiving team's half, in a square 
that does not contain another player or the ball; they 
then move D6 squares in a random direction 
(determined using the scatter template) stopping 
before they would move into an occupied square or 
the square containing the ball.
PELTED BY THE CROWD: A recent scandal has 
cast one of the teams in a poor light, and the fans 
have decided that this is the moment to show their 
disapproval. Each coach rolls a D6 and adds their 
FAME the roll. The team that rolls lower (both teams 
in case of a tie) is pelted by rotten vegetables, 
promotional merchandise and smaller members of 
the crowd. Roll a D6 for each player on the team; on 
a roll of 1, they are Placed Prone.
BIG MONEY IN THE HOUSE: Some of Blitzmania's 
most lucrative sponsors have turned up to watch the 
drive, encouraging the players to give it their 
absolute best. Roll a D6 -- each team gains that 
many bonus team re-rolls (up to a maximum of 8 ). 
In addition, during this drive, teams can use more 
than one team re-roll in a turn (a roll can still never 
be re-rolled more than once). Any of these bonus 
re-rolls that have not been used by the end of the 
drive are lost.
Alternatively, both coaches can agree to use the Blitzmania Kick-off table

If both players agree, they can use this Weather table for the 
duration of the match, instead of the standard Weather Table. It’s 
ideal for representing matches played amid the tundra of the 
frozen north, or for matches set in the winter season.
WEATHER TABLE
WINTER WEATHER TABLE
Sweltering Heat: It’s so hot and humid that 
some players collapse from heat exhaustion. 
Roll a D6 for each player on the pitch at the end 
of a drive. On a roll of 1 the player collapses 
and may not be set up for the next kick-off.
Very Sunny: A glorious day, but the blinding 
sunshine causes a -1 modifier on all passing 
rolls.
Nice: Perfect Blood Bowl weather.
Pouring Rain: It’s raining, making the ball 
slippery and difficult to hold. A -1 modifier 
applies to all catch, intercept, or pick-up rolls.
Blizzard: It’s cold and snowing! The ice on the 
pitch means that any player attempting to move 
an extra square (GFI) will slip and be Knocked 
Down on a roll of 1-2, while the snow means 
that only quick or short passes can be 
attempted.
Howling Winds: The fans are shivering in the 
stands as a ferocious gale blows steadily down 
the pitch. Any pass attempts have an additional 
-1 modifier. Each player rolls a D6 (re-rolling 
ties) – the wind is blowing down the pitch 
towards 
losing 
player’s 
End 
Whenever the ball scatters for a kick-off or 
inaccurate pass, it will be blown down the pitch. 
Before making the Scatter roll, place the 
Throw-in template over the ball so that the 3-4 
result is pointing in the same direction as the 
wind, then roll a D6 and move the ball one 
space in the corresponding direction. Repeat 
this a second time, then scatter the ball as
Freezing: A sudden cold snap turns the ground 
as hard as granite (and not the ‘astro’ variety 
that players are used to). Whenever a player is 
Knocked Down, add 1 to the result of the 
Armour roll.
Brisk: It’s rather chilly, but it is as close to 
perfect Blood Bowl weather as you can hope for 
at this time of year! This counts as a ‘Nice’ 
result for purposes of the Changing Weather 
result on the Kick-off table.
Heavy Snow: Visibility is low, it’s slippery 
underfoot and it’s impossible to spot tripping 
hazards, making it very difficult indeed
to block effectively. Whenever a player makes a 
Blitz Action, their ST is reduced by 1 for the 
duration of that Action.
Blizzard: Between the snow, the wind and the 
icy ground, it is a miracle the game’s still in 
progress! Any player attempting to move an 
extra square (GFI) will slip and be Knocked 
Down on a roll of 1-2, and only Quick or Short 
Passes can be attempted.
Blood Bowl players are a pretty hardy bunch, so it comes as 
no surprise that games have been played in all types of 
weather conditions. From the ice floes of the farthest north to 
the steamy jungles of Lustria, arenas open their doors on 
match days, and the combatants go about their business 
heedless of the climate. At the start of the game each coach 
should roll a D6. Add the results together and refer to the 
Weather table to find out what the weather is like for the day.
THE WEATHER

If both players agree, they can use this table for the duration of 
the match, instead of the standard Weather Table. It is ideal for 
representing matches played underground, whether in a 
well-maintained Dwarf stadium or the haphazard deathtrap that is 
a Skaven pitch. Any rules that refer to the Weather table (for 
example Changing Weather result on the Kick-off table) refer to 
this table if you're using it.
SUBTERRANEAN STADIUM CONDITIONS 
TABLE
WINTER WEATHER TABLE
Bubbling up from Below: The players are 
aghast as viscous liquid begins to seep up 
through the cracks in the floor. Whether this is a 
natural ,phenomenon the result of sabotage or 
a dire warning that stadiums have no place 
being built above sewage pipes, it's definitely 
not pleasant. All players on the pitch subtract 1 
from their MA, but can attempt to Go For It one 
more time when they move (three times, or four 
times if they have the Sprint skill).
Gloomy: The torches are in need of replacing, 
and the shadows are growing long. Long 
Passes and Long Bombs have an extra -1 
modifier (making them -2 and -3 respectively). 
In addition, players attempting to Go For It for a 
second time during an Action (or third time, if 
they have the Sprint skill) will trip and be 
Knocked Down on a roll of 1 or 2 instead of just 
on a roll of a 1.
Nice Enough: You might be missing the light of 
the sun, but the conditions are as good as you 
could hope for. This counts as a 'Nice' result for 
purposes of the Changing Weather result on 
the Kick-off table.
Thermal Geysers: Vapour begins to whistle up 
from the cracks in the ground, followed by the 
forceful gouts of roiling steam. If a player on 
your team is Knocked Down (not just placed 
Prone), roll a D6. On a roll of 1, they crack open 
a thermal geyser and are shot into the air. 
Scatter them D3 squares in a random direction 
(ignoring any squares they pass through). If 
they land in an occupied square, move them 
one more space in the direction of scatter until 
they land in an unoccupied square or leave the 
pitch. When making the Injury roll for a player 
who has been shot into the air, add 2 to the 
result.
Seismic Activity: Uh oh... was that a tremor? 
Roll a D6 at the end of each turn, adding 1 to 
the result for each player on the pitch with a 
Strength 5 or more. If the result is 6 or more, 
rocks tumble down from up above. Each coach 
rolls a D6. The one who scores the lowest picks 
one of their players at random, that player is 
Knocked Down by a falling rock and the other 
coach makes an Injury roll for them. If both 
coaches roll the same, a random player on 
each team is struck by a falling rock!
Howling Winds: The fans are shivering in the 
stands as a ferocious gale blows steadily down 
the pitch. Any pass attempts have an additional 
-1 modifier. Each player rolls a D6 (re-rolling 
ties) – the wind is blowing down the pitch 
towards 
losing 
player’s 
End 
Whenever the ball scatters for a kick-off or 
inaccurate pass, it will be blown down the pitch. 
Before making
the Scatter roll, place the Throw-in template 
over the ball so that the 3-4 result is pointing in 
the same direction as the wind, then roll a D6 
move 
ball 
one 
space 
in 
corresponding direction. Repeat this a second 
time, then scatter the ball as
Freezing: A sudden cold snap turns the ground 
as hard as granite (and not the ‘astro’ variety 
that players are used to). Whenever
a player is Knocked Down, add 1 to the result of 
the Armour roll.
Brisk: It’s rather chilly, but it is as close to 
perfect Blood Bowl weather as you can hope for 
at this time of year! This counts as a ‘Nice’ 
result for purposes of the Changing Weather 
result on the Kick-off table.
Heavy Snow: Visibility is low, it’s slippery 
underfoot and it’s impossible to spot tripping 
hazards, making it very difficult indeed
to block effectively. Whenever a player makes a 
Blitz Action, their ST is reduced by 1 for the 
duration of that Action.
Blizzard: Between the snow, the wind and the 
icy ground, it is a miracle the game’s still in 
progress! Any player attempting to move an 
extra square (GFI) will slip and be Knocked 
Down on a roll of 1-2, and only Quick or Short 
Passes can be attempted.

The result of the block only affects the two players directly 
involved. Any assisting players are not affected. Similarly, only the 
skills belonging to the two players directly involved in the block 
may be used on the result. Skills belonging to assisting players 
cannot be taken advantage of by either side.
ASSISTING A BLOCK
After a block has been declared, the extra team players of the 
attacker and the defender give an ‘assist’. This allows two or more 
attackers to gang up on a single defender, or for one or more 
defenders to aid a companion against a block. Each of these extra 
players adds +1 to the Strength of the player that they are 
assisting. Assisting a block does not count as an Action, and a 
player can assist any number of blocks per turn. A player is 
allowed to make an assist even if he has moved or taken an 
 
The attacking coach must declare if any of his players will give an 
assist first, then the defending coach must add defensive assists 
with players from his team. In order to make an assist, the player:
 
1. Must be adjacent to the enemy player involved in the block, 
and...
2. Must not be in the tackle zone of any other player from the 
opposing team, and ...
3. Must be standing, and …
4. Must have his tackle zones.
The result of the block only affects the two players directly 
involved. Any assisting players are not affected. Similarly, only the 
skills belonging to the two players directly involved in the block 
may be used on the result. Skills belonging to assisting players 
cannot be taken advantage of by either side.
HANDING-OFF THE BALL
A hand-off is where the ball is simply handed to another player, 
friend or foe, in an adjacent square. The Hand-Off Action is added 
to the list of Actions like Move, Block, Blitz and Pass. You may 
only declare one Hand-Off Action per turn. You may move before 
performing the hand-off, but once you attempt to hand-off the ball, 
you may not move the player performing the Hand-Off Action any 
farther that turn, even if he has spare MA left. The ball may not be 
handed off in the opponent's turn. If the ball is handed off and 
comes to rest without being caught by any member of the moving 
team, it causes a turnover.
 
No dice roll is required to see if the player attempting the hand-off 
is successful – it automatically hits the targeted player. However, 
the player that the ball is handed off to must roll to see if they 
catch the ball. Use these modifiers for the Catch roll:
Catching a hand-off …………………………….+1
Per opposing tackle zone on the player……….-1
 
GOING FOR IT!
When a player takes any Action apart from a Block, they may try 
to move one or two extra squares over and above the number 
that they are normally allowed to move – this is called ‘going for it’ 
or GFI. NOTE: if a rule refers to a player’s ‘normal movement’ do 
not include the one to two GFI squares.
 
Roll a D6 for the player after they have moved each extra square. 
On a roll of 1 the player trips up and is Knocked Down in the 
square that they moved to. Roll to see if he was injured. On any 
other roll the player moves without mishap. If the player is 
Knocked Down then his team suffers a turnover and their turn 
ends immediately.
Bob: Urgash Axebiter prepares to smash Ivan 
Kellhoofer out of the way. Both Urgash and Ivan 
have a Strength of 3, which means that normally 
Urgash would only get to roll one Block dice and 
would have to take whatever result he rolled on 
the dice.
Jim: That’s absolutely correct, Bob, but in this 
case Urgash is getting an assist from Grishnak 
Goblin-Throttler which adds +1 to his Strength. 
That means that Urgash counts as having a 
Strength of 4 to Ivan’s 3, and so Urgash gets to 
roll two dice and choose which one he will use. 
He rolls a (Attacker down) and a (Push 
back), and so only manages to push Ivan back.
Bob: And if I could just jump in there, Jim, I think 
that we should point out to the fans that although 
Snagga Throttlesnot wanted to give Urgash an 
assist as well, he couldn’t because he was in the 
tackle zone of Helmut Headreka.
PLAYER’S STRENGTHS ROLL
Both players equal strength One Block Dice
One Player Stronger Two Block Dice*
One player more than twice as strong Three Block Dice*
* The coach of the stronger player picks which block 
dice is used.

Interception Modifiers
Attempting an Interception………………………-2
Per opposing tackle zone on the player……….-1
Fumbles
Sometimes a player attempting to throw the ball will drop it in their 
own square. This is more likely if the player has any opposing 
players breathing down his neck! To represent this, if the D6 roll 
for a pass is 1 or less before or after modification, then the thrower 
has fumbled and dropped the ball. The ball will bounce once from 
the thrower’s square, and the moving team will suffer a turnover 
and their turn ends immediately.
Designer's Note: Many coaches argue over the realism of
rolling to intercept before rolling to pass. Like many rules in Blood 
Bowl it is an abstraction to make the game work better. Think 
instead of the interception/passing rolls as a complete series of 
rolls to determine the outcome of a pass rather than sequential 
steps.
When a player throws the ball various things can go wrong. 
Usually the ball will be slightly off target or will be dropped by the 
intended receiver, and these events are handled by the normal 
throwing rules. Sometimes, however, the thrower may completely 
fumble the throw, dropping the ball in their own square, or the ball 
may be intercepted by an opposing player before it reaches the 
target square. Both of these events are handled by the new rules 
below.
Interceptions
One player on the opposing team may attempt to intercept a 
thrown ball. To be able to make an interception, the player must: 
• have the plastic ruler pass over at least part of the square the 
intercepting player is standing in, and …
• have a tackle zone, and …
• be closer to the thrower than the thrower is to the target
player/square of the pass, and …
• be closer to the target player/square of the pass than the
thrower is to the target player/square of the pass.
Note that only one player can attempt an interception, no matter 
how many are eligible.
The coach must declare that one of his players will try to
intercept before the thrower rolls to see if he is on target. Look up 
the player’s Agility on the Agility table to find the score required to 
successfully intercept the ball. Roll a D6, and add or subtract any 
of the modifiers that apply to the D6 roll. A roll of 1 before 
modification always fails and a roll of 6 before modification always 
succeeds.
If the final modified score is less than the required total, then the 
player fails to intercept the ball and the pass can carry on as 
normal. If the D6 roll equals or beats the required roll, then the 
player succeeds in intercepting and catching the ball. Place the 
ball on the player’s base to show that they have caught it. A 
successful interception causes a turnover, and the moving team’s 
turn ends immediately.
INTERCEPTIONS AND FUMBLES
Jim: As we return to the match Grishnak Goblin-Throttler is about to attempt 
another pass. This time, however, Griff Oberwald is in a position to make an 
interception attempt.
Bob: The crowd holds its breath as Griff leaps to intercept the pass. He 
needs an Agility roll of 3 or more. However, a player making an interception 
attempt suffers a -2 modifier, which means that Griff will need a score of 5 
or 6 to catch the ball. The dice is rolled and comes up with a 6! Griff picks 
off the ball – it’s an interception!! And just listen to those Reavers fans, Jim, 
are they going wild!
INTERCEPTION MODIFIERS
Attempting an interception -2
Per enemy tackle zone on the player intercepting the ball -1

SKILLS
This section of the rules includes lots more skills for players to 
use. The specific rules for each skill can be found later. Each 
entry also lists which category the skill belongs to (i.e. Passing, 
General, Mutation, etc). A skill’s category effects which players 
can access it, as described later on in the rules for Blood Bowl 
leagues. Unless otherwise stated in the skill description, the 
following rules apply to all skills:
1. All bonuses/modifiers from skills can be combined.
2. All skills may be used an unlimited number of times per Action.
3. Some skills refer to pushing a player back in order to work. 
These skills will work as long as you roll a result of ‘Pushed’, 
‘Defender Stumbles’, or ‘Defender Down’ on the Block dice.
4. Skill use is not mandatory.
5. You can choose to use a skill that affects a dice roll after rolling 
the dice (e.g. Diving Tackle does not need to be used until 
after seeing the result of the Dodge roll).
6. Only Extraordinary skills work when a player is Prone or 
Stunned.
A skill may only be taken once per player.
FOULS, OR KICKING 
PLAYERS THAT ARE DOWN
Attacking opponents that have been Knocked Down is strictly 
against the rules. However, despite the large number of ways in 
which players can attack one another legally, many resort to the 
time-honoured tradition of kicking a man when he’s down. The 
referee is supposed to spot and penalize players who use such 
underhand tactics but unfortunately, when something nasty 
happens on the pitch, the refs are often looking the other way and 
miss the foul altogether. No wonder the referee is constantly 
harangued by the crowd!
 
Normally, players that are Prone or Stunned cannot be attacked. 
However, when you use this rule, one player per turn is allowed to 
take a Foul Action. This allows the player to move a number of 
squares equal to his MA and then make a foul against an 
opposing player who is Prone or Stunned and in an adjacent 
square. The coach nominates the victim, and then makes an 
Armour roll for him. Other players that are adjacent to the victim 
must assist the player making the foul, and each extra player 
adds 1 to the Armour roll.
 
Defending players adjacent to the fouler must also give assists to 
a player that is being fouled. Each defensive assist modifies the 
Armour roll by -1 per assist. No player from either side may assist 
a foul if they are in the tackle zone of an opposing player, do not 
have their tackle zones, or are not standing. If the score beats the 
victim’s Armour value then he is injured and a roll is made on the 
Injury table to see what has happened to him.

If a player on the team that the Ref is keeping an eye on is sent 
off, or if that team uses a Bribe to prevent a player being sent off, 
he calms down and is returned to where he started, next to the 
pitch. Note that if a drive (or the first half) ends, the Ref stays right 
where he is... these maniacs know how to be patient! 
Consequences: Gobin Referees
It's never a good idea to get on the wrong side of a Goblin, let 
alone when they have full backing of the Referees and Allied 
Rulekeepers Guild! The player is given a subtle reminder of the 
Ref's authority - place them Prone and make an immediate injury 
roll for them.
Consequences: Halfling Referees
The Halflings that make it through the Referee Selection 
Programme tend to be a few buns short of a basket and will go out 
of their very maliciously disrupt the efforts of a team that's on their 
wrong side. The player's team immediately loses a Team Re-roll. 
If they do not have any Team Re-rolls to lose, the other team 
gains one instead!
Referees do occasionally spot a player making a foul and send 
them off the pitch, although this is quite a rare occurrence (how 
would you like to tell a five foot wide Black Orc blocker that 
they’re out of the match?!?).
 
To reflect this, if the Armour and/or Injury roll is a doubles (i.e., 
two 1s, or two 2s, etc), the referee has spotted the foul, and the 
player taking the Foul Action is sent off to the dungeon that lies 
under every Blood Bowl pitch. In addition, his team suffers a 
turnover and their turn ends immediately. If the sent off player 
was holding the ball, the ball bounces from the square he was 
standing in when sent off. A player who is sent to the dungeon is 
locked up and may not play for the rest of the match, even if the 
referee is subsequently ‘got’ by the crowd as a result of a roll on 
the Kick-Off table. A coach may not replace a player who has 
been sent off until after the drive ends.
In Blood Bowl, the best referees are all but invisible. As long as 
they're doing their job properly, you should hardly notice they're 
there! The rules for referees in Blood Bowl were written with this 
in mind, keeping things nice and simple, with the miniatures 
serving as visual reminders that the rules for Fouling are in play.
However, it's understandable that some players will want to put 
the referee miniatures to more use in the game, so here's two 
sets of rules that you can use, representing Refs who make up for 
their small stature with a complete lack of mercy. One set include 
the ‘Goblin and Halfling Referees’, the other set includes the 
‘Famous Referees’. These are optional rules, so both players 
must agree on which one to use if any before play begins.
Goblin and Halfling Referees
Before the first kick-off, the coaches roll off and the winner picks 
one of the Referee miniatures and sets it up next to the pitch. You 
can only ever use one special Referee at a time!
Each time there is a foul and a player is not sent off, the Ref will 
become increasingly frustrated at their impotence. After the foul 
has been fully reached, one of the following will happen:
If the Ref is currently next to the pitch and is not on either team's 
Dugout, move him to the sideline area of the fouling team's 
Dugout, directly above the "1" on the Score Track. He's not got 
his eye on that team and is plotting revenge.
If the Ref is already in the fouling team's Dugout, move him one 
step to the right, so that he's above the next number. If he is 
already above the number 8, he cannot move any further.
If the Ref is on the other team's Dugout, move him one space to 
the left, so that he's above the previous number. If he was already 
above the number 1, remove him from the Dugout and put him 
back where he started, next to the pitch.
After the Ref has moved, if he's on the fouling team's Dugout, roll 
a D6. If the result is higher than the number on the Score Track 
that the Ref is currently above, there is no effect - but if it is the 
same or lower, the player who committed the foul suffers the 
consequences described below!
REFEREES

THORON KORENSSON
Strict Discipline:
If a player commits a foul and a double is not rolled for the Armour 
roll or Injury Roll, roll a D6. On a 1 or 2, the foul is seen by 
Korensson and the player is sent off. If a Bribe is used or a coach 
argues to the call to prevent the player from being sent off and the 
result is 1, the player is sent off, as well as another randomly 
determined player on the same team (excluding those who are not 
on the pitch). The coach can attempt to argue the call or use a 
Bribe again to save the second player, but the same rule applies - 
Korensson can keep it going all night!
If a Get the Ref result is rolled on the Kick-off table, roll again. If 
the re-rolled result is another Get the Ref, Korensson is replaced 
with a standard referee for the rest of the match. Each team gets a 
Bribe, as per the normal rules.
JORM THE OGRE
Jorn Not Like Cheaters:
If a player commits a foul and a double is not rolled for the Armour 
roll or Injury Roll, roll a D6. On a 1 (a 1 or 2 if the fouling player’s 
team has a higher score than their opponents), pick a random 
player on the fouling player’s team (excluding those who are not 
on the pitch). The opposing coach makes an Armour roll (and 
potentially an Injury roll) for that player as though it was being 
made by a player with the Mighty Blow skill. If the Armour roll fails, 
the player remains standing - otherwise, the team suffers a 
turnover.
If a Get the Ref result is rolled on the Kick-off table, its normal 
effects do not take place - instead, Jorm goes into a rampage and 
starts tearing through the stands to teach the rowdy fans a lesson! 
If neither team has a FAME modifier, randomize one team to get 
+1 FAME for the rest of the match. If one team has a FAME 
modifier, that team’s coach rolls a D6. On a 1, they lose the 
modifier and their opponent gains a +1 FAME modifier. On a 2-3, 
they lose the modifier but their opponent gains nothing.
FAMOUS REFEREES
Before the start of the Pre-match sequence, roll 2D6 on the table 
below to see whether a Famous Referee is in attendance. If so, 
use that referee’s rules, as shown below.
4-6
Trundlefoot Triplets
Heavy-handed Incompetence:
If a player commits a foul and a double is not rolled for the 
Armour roll or Injury roll, roll a D6. On a 1, the fouling player is 
sent off as though they had rolled a double. On a 6, the target of 
the foul is sent off instead! In either case, a Bribe can be used, 
and the head coach can attempt to argue the call.
In addition, each coach rolls a D6 immediately before setting their 
team up at the start of a drive, but after rolling for KO’d players. 
On a roll of 1, a random player from their team (not counting any 
players in the KO’d or Dead & Injured boxes) is called out for an 
apparent kit check violation, and cannot be set up this drive.
If a Get the Ref result is rolled on the Kick-off table, the triplets 
make themselves scarce and are replaced with a standard 
referee for the rest of the match - each team also gets a Bribe as 
RANULF ‘RED’ HOKULI
‘Red’ Card: 
If a player commits a foul and a double is not rolled for the 
Armour roll or Injury roll, a D6. On a 1 or 2, the eagle-eyed Red 
has seen the foul and the coach of the fouling player must choose 
one of the following:
Use a Bribe.
The fouling player is sent off, causing a turnover.
Red’s axe is put to good use. Make an Injury roll for the 
fouling player, adding 2 to the result. The team suffers a 
turnover.
THE TRUNDLEFOOT TRIPLETS: BUNGO, FILIBERT AND JEPH
Head Coaches cannot argue the call with Red Hokuli. However, 
the Get the Ref result on the Kick-off table still applies.
Alternatively, incorporate the Goblin and Halfling Referees into 
this table as follows:
4-6
Trundlefoot Triplets
Goblin referee
Halfling referee

SKAVEN TEAMS: WARPSTONE BRAZIER
Filled with chunks of raw steaming Warpstone, there’s no way this 
‘ball’ could be mistaken for one that meets regulations. Hey, when 
the Skaven cheat, they don’t muck about.
Whenever a player attempts to pick up, catch or intercept a 
Warpstone Brazier and the D6 roll is a 1 (after re-rolls, but before 
any modifiers are applied), the player suffers a temporary physical 
mutation! Roll a D6 on the table below to see what happens - if a 
player is granted a duplicate skill it had no additional effect. The 
skill only lasts until the end of the drive, or until they are (un)lucky 
enough to receive another spontaneous mutation from the 
warpstone brazier.
Spontaneous Combustion. The player is Knocked 
Down. Add 1 to the result of the Armour Roll.
Temporal Instability. The player moves out of phase 
with reality, gaining the No Hands skill.
Shrunken head. The only thing worse than a tiny head 
is the realisation that your helmet no longer fits. The 
player gains the Bone-head skill.
Massively Obese. The player expands in size until they 
are a hulking mass of flesh. The player’s MA is reduced 
by 2, to a minimum of 1, but they gain the Thick Skull 
Leprous Flesh. Skin and flesh hang from the player in 
sickening folds. The player gains the Foul Appearance 
Thorny Carapace. The player’s body sprouts a thick, 
spiked shell. The player’s AV is increased by one, to a 
maximum of 10.
DWARF TEAMS: MASTER-HEWN BALL
What’s wrong with a little ornamentation? Oh, it feels a little 
weightier than normal, does it? That must be the gemstones! The 
centre definitely isn’t lined with iron. Not at all!
When the Master-Hewn ball is kicked off, it only scatters D3 
squares rather than D6. In addition, it is not affected by the gentle 
gust of wind on a ‘Changing Weather’ result on the Kick-off table. 
When passing a Master-Hewn ball, long bombs cannot be 
attempted, and the Hail Mary Pass skill cannot be used. In 
addition, long passes have an additional -1 modifier.
Whenever the Master-Hewn Ball is thrown, thrown in or kicked off, 
it will not bounce if it lands in an unoccupied square. If it lands in a 
square with a prone or stunned player, make an armour roll for 
that player before the ball bounces. If they are removed from play 
as a result, the ball does not bounce.
If a player attempts to catch a thrown Master-Hewn Ball and fails, 
roll a D6 after the ball has bounced away. If the result is equal to 
or higher than the player’s ST, they are knocked down.
TEAM-SPECIFIC BALLS
The rules below allow coaches to use team-specific balls, making 
use of the weird and wacky variant balls that are included on the 
Orc, Skaven and Dwarf team sprues. Just like any other optional 
rule, the rule should be agreed between both coaches in one-off 
games, and its use in league play is at the League 
Commissioner’s discretion.
MULTIPLE BALLS
If a second ball ever comes into play (for example, due to the Ball 
Clone special play card), it is always a normal, regulation Blood 
Bowl ball. Things are mad enough without multiple special balls 
on the pitch!
SPECIAL BALLS
Although Blood Bowl balls are usually provided by the stadium, 
many teams bring along several of their own just in case. Most of 
the time these are standard, regulation pigskins, but some teams 
like to sneak in a surprise once in a while…
Once per match, at the start of any drive for which they are the 
kicking team, the coach can declare that they will use a special 
ball. Any team can use an Extra Spiky Ball, but some teams have 
access to race-specific special balls as listed below - they should 
declare whether they are using an Extra Spiky Ball or their team’s 
unique ball.
Before the kick-off, the coach nominates one player from their 
team who is on the pitch, is not in a wide zone and is not on the 
line of scrimmage,to be the one kicking the ball (Note that in 
some situations, such as when using the Kick skill, a player will 
already have been nominated to kick the ball). If the roll on the 
kick-off table is a double, the Ref calls the kicking player out for 
their flagrant rules violation, and they are immediately sent off as 
though they had committed a foul (before resolving the kick-off 
result). Note that even if the player is sent off, the special ball 
remains in play for this drive!
For the duration of the drive, the special ball rules (as shown 
below) apply to the ball. Aside from those rules, it still counts as a 
normal ball in all respects.
ANY TEAM: EXTRA SPIKY BALLS
Sure, a lot of Blood Bowl balls have spikes, but this one takes 
things to the extreme! Whenever an Extra Spiky Ball is thrown, 
thrown in or kicked off, it will not bounce if it lands in an 
unoccupied square. In addition, if the result of a roll to pick up, 
catch or intercept the ball is a 1 (after re-rolls, but before any 
modifiers are applied), the player making the attempt is treated as 
being attacked with the Stab skill.
ORC TEAMS: LIMPIN’ SQUIG
Squigs have long been used as a ball in the Orc leagues, but 
lopping one of their legs off to stop them running away so easily is 
a recent innovation.
At the start of each team’s turn, the Limpin’ Squig will make a 
break for freedom. If it is being carried by a player, that player’s 
coach must roll a D6. On a roll of 1, the squig breaks free and 
bounces one square in a random direction, following all the rules 
for bouncing balls. Note that this does not cause a turnover. If the 
squig is not being carried by a player at the end of a turn, it hops 
3 times, resolving each in the same way as a bouncing ball. If it 
hops into a player’s square and they fail to catch it, it bounces 
once, then stops.

EXPLODIN' BALL
There's nothing subtle or clever about a ball 
stuffed with blasting charges and gunpowder, but 
Goblins have never been fans of subtlety or 
cleverness. When the ball is placed, the Goblin 
player places a marker - a spare ball is ideal - on 
any space of their score track, to represent the 
length of the fuse. At the end of each player's 
turn, the Goblin coach rolls a D6. On a 1, the fuse 
goes out, and the Explodin' Ball is treated as a 
regular ball from now on - however, the Goblin 
player may spend a team re-roll to keep the fuse 
alight (the marker does not move this turn). On a 
2-5, move the marker one space towards 0. On a 
6, move it two spaces towards 0. If it moves onto 
the 0 space, it is removed and the ball explodes! 
Should a drive end while the marker is still on the 
track, it is removed with no effect.
When the ball explodes, roll a D6 for each player 
in an adjacent square - they are Knocked Down 
on a roll of 4+. If they are already Prone or 
Stunned, make an Armour roll for them as though 
they had been Knocked Down. In addition, if a 
player was carrying the ball, they are Knocked 
Down automatically. Note that an exploding ball 
will not prevent a touchdown being scored, but 
the roll should still be made at the end of the turn 
to see whether the bomb blows up while the 
player is celebrating.
After the ball has exploded, as long as the drive is 
still going, a replacement is thrown in by a 
sideline official. Put a regular ball on the square 
where the exploding ball was, then scatter it three 
times - a player cannot attempt to catch it until all 
three scatters have been completed.
GOBLIN SPECIAL BALLS
This optional rule set allow Goblin teams to 
make use of their own special balls.
At the start of any drive for which they are the 
kicking team, a Goblin coach can declare that 
they will use a special ball. Goblin teams have 
access to three special balls and can use each 
one once per match. If they wish, they can use 
an Extra Spiky Ball (see the March issue of White 
Dwarf) in place of one of their three balls.
Before the kick-off, the coach nominates one 
player from their team who is on the pitch, is not 
in a wide zone and is not on the line of 
scrimmage to be the one kicking the ball (Note 
that in some situations, such as using the Kick 
skill, a player will already have been nominated 
to kick the ball). If the roll on the kick-off table is a 
double, the Ref calls the kicking player out for 
their flagrant rules violation, and they are 
immediately sent off as though they had 
committed a foul (before resolving the kick-off 
result). Note that even if the player is sent off, the 
special ball remains in play for this drive! If the 
team has already used a special ball this match, 
roll a D6 after the kick-off result has been 
resolved: On a 1 or 2 the kicking player is sent 
off as above.
For the duration of the drive, the special ball 
rules apply to the ball. Aside from those rules, it 
still counts as a normal ball in all respects.
SHADY SPECIAL
The art of getting a ball to deflate in midair during 
the kick-off was pioneered by devious gobbo 
kicker Grom Shady, and is a common sight when 
Goblins come up against show-offs who love 
passing. Any attempts to throw a Shady Special 
have an additional -2 modifier. In addition, as 
there's very little chance of a Ref proving that the 
sabotage was deliberate (and not the result of 
shoddy kit maintenance expected of a Goblin 
team), the kicker can't be sent off for employing a 
Shady Special.

SNOTLING BALL-SUIT
Stuffing a Snotling into a crude approximation of 
a ball and instructing them to run for the other 
end zone is one of the most ludicrous (and 
entertaining) ways a Goblin team can cheat.
During each of their turns, the Goblin coach can 
make a Move action with the ball as though it 
were a player on their team! If the ball is being 
carried by a player on the enemy team, it must 
first try to escape. The opposing coach makes an 
Agility test for that player with a +1 modifier. If it 
is passed, they keep hold of the ball, and it 
cannot make an action this turn. Otherwise, it 
bounces once, using up one square of its 
movement, and can then carry on moving.
The ball has a MA equal to the roll of a D3, rolled 
each time it makes a Move Action. For each 
square of the ball's movement, the Goblin coach 
places a the Throw-in template over it facing up 
or down the pitch or towards either sideline. Then 
they roll a D6 and move the ball one square in 
the indicated direction; no Dodge roll is required 
if it leaves a square that is in an enemy tackle 
zone. Repeat this process for each and every 
square of the ball's Movement (it cannot Go For 
It). If this movement takes the ball off the pitch, it 
is thrown back on as normal and its move ends.
If the ball moves into a standing player's square, 
that player must attempt to catch it, as though it 
were a bouncing ball. Goblin players, who are 
adept at catching runaway Snotlings, get a +1 
bonus to this roll.

BLOOD BOWL LEAGUES
You can start playing league matches as soon as all the coaches 
taking part in the league have created their teams. It is up to the 
teams’ coaches to organize any matches that they play. A team 
can play as often as a coach likes, assuming that he can find 
enough opponents, of course! The only restriction is that a team 
may not play against the same opponent for more than two 
matches in a row. This means that a coach can play two games 
against the same opponent, (roughly a full evening’s play), but the 
next match must be against a different team.
 
If the Commissioner decides to allow it then coaches may run one 
or more teams at the same time. Obviously, this will mean that 
each individual team will play fewer games, as the coach’s time 
will have to be split between the different teams he has in his 
stable. A coach may not swap gold, players or anything else 
between the teams that he runs. For example, he may not make a 
‘special loan’ from one of his teams to another, or swap players 
between the teams, and so on. Note that a coach can carry out 
such actions between one of his teams and a team run by another 
coach (assuming the other coach AND the league commissioner 
agrees, of course!), he just can’t do it between two of his own 
teams.
TEAM ROSTER
Before you can start playing league matches, each coach must 
create a team as explained earlier. This is where the columns that 
were previously unused come in. They include a number of 
columns and rows for recording important information that you will 
need to know when you are running a league team. How these 
extra rows and columns are used is explained in the rules that 
follow.
Treasury
Each coach begins the league with a treasury of 1,000,000 gold 
pieces with which to buy his team. Any gold that is not spent 
should be recorded in the team’s treasury and may be spent after 
any future match. A coach must keep track of how much gold his 
team has in its treasury by recording the amount on his team 
roster.
Team Value
In League matches the ‘value’ of a team affects whether it 
receives Inducements for playing a match and if it suffers from 
Expensive Mistakes. The value of a team (often abbreviated to 
‘TV’) is worked out by adding up the value of the players that will 
play for the team in its next match, including extra value from 
improvements, to the cost of coaching staff, team re-rolls, and Fan 
Factor. Record the value of your team in the appropriate space on 
the team roster. Note that gold in the treasury and any players that 
are missing the game due to injury do not count towards the Team 
Value.
Match Records
On the back of the team roster sheet there is a Match Record 
Chart for recording information about the games that the team has 
played. Keep a record of the matches played by the team here. 
The coach should record the name of the opposition, the score 
and number of casualties inflicted by each team, as well as the 
gate and match winnings, and any brief notes about the game.
Any experienced Blood Bowl coach will tell you that while one-off 
games may be fun, running a team over the course of a series of 
games is far more exciting. Not only do you have to worry about 
the tactics that your team will use in a single game, but you can 
also watch your team develop and grow into a real powerhouse to 
rival even the mighty Reikland Reavers or the Gouged Eye. 
Running a Blood Bowl team in a league does create extra work 
and calls for quite a lot of commitment, but if you want to have the 
glory of leading your team through a long season to the Blood 
Bowl final itself, then the League rules are for you!
Games are played in stadiums, owned either by the Colleges of 
Magic or by large towns or cities. They are not normally owned by 
Blood Bowl teams themselves, though some teams do own their 
own stadiums (e.g., the Reikland Reavers). Instead, teams travel 
round the Old World, moving from stadium to stadium and playing 
matches against any teams they meet.
The League rules are designed to recreate the way Blood Bowl 
teams travel round the Old World, moving from venue to venue to 
play games. In a way, the teams are much more like a travelling 
company of actors, or a mercenary regiment, than the Blood Bowl 
teams of Nikk Three-horn's days. Because of this anarchic set-up 
it is up to each team manager to organize matches, set dates for 
games, and so on.
In order to set up the league the first thing you need to do is pick 
the ‘League Commissioner’, who should ideally be the most 
experienced coach in the group. The Commissioner has the 
responsibility of making sure that the league runs smoothly, and, 
most importantly, organising any tournaments that are played. 
The Commissioner can also keep track of how well all the teams 
are doing, and can even write a newsletter featuring match 
reports, league tables, facts and stats, and anything else he can 
think of! The Commissioner can be a coach of a team in the 
league, too, just so long as he doesn’t take advantage of the 
situation to help his team win any tournaments.
In a league, the Commissioner’s word is LAW. He is allowed to 
change or modify any of the Blood Bowl rules as he sees fit, 
including any of the League Rules that follow. In the immortal 
words of fellow game designer Tuomas Pirinen: If the League 
Commissioner says that Dwarfs can now fly, your reply must be 
'Yes Sir! How high?'
If you don’t like the way a commissioner runs his league, you 
have two choices; put up with it, or leave the league. Arguing with 
the commissioner is NOT an option. ‘Nuff said, I hope.
STARTING THE LEAGUE
A league consists of a group of teams (preferably at least four) 
who will play each other (and maybe other teams) over the 
course of a series of games. Existing Leagues set up under 
earlier versions of the Blood Bowl rules can easily change over to 
the new league rules; coaches simply need to work out the value 
of the team as described later, and start using the new team list 
presented later. Any team rosters that are not ‘legal’ under the 
new rules can carry on using the players that are in the team, but 
any replacements should be purchased from the new rosters.

★ CASUALTY TABLE ★
INJURIES
Blood Bowl is a rough and dangerous sport, and players are often 
injured or killed while playing the game. Many Blood Bowl players 
sport scars from old injuries, while some have lost eyes, ears, 
noses and even whole limbs! Although most injuries can be 
recovered from given a bit of time, some are so serious that they 
can permanently affect a player. In one-off games this is not 
important – all you need to know is that the player is off the pitch 
for the rest of the game! – but in a league it is vital to know 
exactly what type of injury a player has suffered. This is where the 
Casualty table comes in.
 
If a player suffers a Casualty because a 10 or more is rolled on 
the Injury table, then the opposing coach rolls on the Casualty 
table. The dice scores on the Casualty table run from 11 through 
to 68. Assuming that you don’t have a 68-sided dice (not many 
people do), you need to roll a normal six-sided dice and the 
eight-sided dice used to scatter the ball. The six-sided dice counts 
as tens, so a score of 2=20, 4=40 etc, and the eight-sided dice 
counts for the units, so a score of 3=3, 5=5, etc. Then put the 
numbers together to get a score from 11 to 68. For example, if 
you rolled a ‘2’ on the six-sided dice and a ‘3’ on the eight-sided 
dice, then you would get a score of 23.
Having made the dice roll, look up the result on the Casualty 
table. The table lists exactly what has happened to the player, 
and describes any special effects the injury may have. The 
majority of the results simply because the player to miss the next 
match, though some have more long-lasting effects. The coach 
of the player that suffered the injury should make a note of the 
effect of the serious injury on his team roster.
STAR PLAYER POINTS
Players are able to earn Star Player points (SPPs) in league 
matches. Star Player points are earned for scoring touchdowns, 
making complete passes, making interceptions, killing or injuring 
opposing players, and for earning ‘Most Valuable Player’ awards. 
Once a player has earned enough Star Player points he becomes 
entitled to an improvement and may roll on the ‘Improvement 
table’. Players who survive long enough will progress to become 
legendary players, with special characteristics and skills that they 
have picked up over the course of their long career on the Blood 
Bowl pitch.
The team roster includes boxes so coaches can keep track of the 
number of Star Player points their players earn during a match. 
Each time a player does something that earns him any Star 
Player points his coach should put a tick in the appropriate box on 
the roster for each point they have earned. At the end of the 
match count up the number of new ticks for each player, and 
upgrade their total score of Star Player points accordingly.
D68
Effect
11-38
Badly Hurt
No long term effect
Broken Ribs
Groin Strain
Gouged Eye
Broken Jaw
Fractured Arm
Fractured Leg
Smashed Hand
Pinched Nerve
Damaged Back
Niggling Injury
Smashed Knee
Niggling Injury
Smashed Hip
-1 MA
Smashed Ankle
-1 MA
Serious Concussion
-1 AV
Fractured Skull
-1 AV
Broken Neck
-1 AG
Smashed Collar Bone
-1 ST
61-68
DEAD
Dead!
Miss Next Game: Write an ‘M’ in the injuries box on the team 
roster, and rub it out at the end of the next match.
Niggling Injury: Miss next game as above. In addition, write an ‘N’ 
in the Injuries box on the team roster. Each Niggling Injury adds 1 
to any subsequent Injury roll made against this player.
-1 MA, ST, AG, and AV: Miss next game as above. In addition, 
record the characteristic change on the team roster. However, no 
characteristic may be reduced by more than 2 points or below a 
value of 1. Any injuries that could reduce it further are ignored.
Dead! – Take the player off the pitch and place them in the 
Dugout in the Dead & Injured Players box. The player won't be 
playing Blood Bowl any more unless he is raised to join another 
team!

HOW TO EARN STAR PLAYER POINTS
Star Player points are earned for performing the following actions:
Completions (COMP): A player who makes an accurate pass 
that is caught by a receiver from his own team in the targeted 
square of the pass when the ball comes to rest earns 1 Star 
Player point. This is called a completion.
Touchdowns (TD): A player who scores a touchdown earns 3 
Star Player points.
Interceptions (INT): If a player successfully makes an 
Interception of the ball after making an Interception roll then they 
earn 2 Star Player points.
Casualties (CAS): If a player causes an opposing player to be 
removed as a Casualty then they earn 2 Star Player points. The 
points are only earned if the player blocks an opponent or is 
blocked by an opponent himself. Casualties inflicted in any other 
way (including injuries inflicted by the crowd or from attacks with 
chainsaws, bombs, or the Stab skill) do not count for Star Player 
points.
Most Valuable Player (MVP): At the end of the match, each 
coach nominates three players from their team and rolls a D3 to 
choose one at random to be awarded a Most Valuable Player 
award at the end of the match. A Most Valuable Player award 
earns the player 5 Star Player points. IMPORTANT: A team that 
concedes a match must give its MVP to the opposing team (i.e., 
the winning coach gets two MVPs and the losing coach gets 
none).
IMPROVEMENT ROLLS
As players earn more Star Player points they go up in levels of 
experience and make Improvement rolls. All players start out as 
Rookies with no Star Player points. Once a player has earned 6 
points he becomes ‘Experienced’ and is entitled to his first 
Improvement roll. Each time that the player goes up another level 
he is entitled to another Improvement roll. The Star Player points 
table lists the number of Star Player points that are required to 
reach each different level.
At the end of the match work out how many Star Player points 
each of the players in your team has earned, and look up their 
scores on the Star Player points table. If the player has earned 
enough points to go up a level, then immediately make a roll for 
them on the Improvement table. To make the Improvement roll, 
roll two D6, add the scores together, and look up the result on the 
Improvement table.
SPPs
Star Player Rolls
0-5
Rookie
None
6-15
Experienced
One
16-30
Veteran
Two
31-50
Emerging Star
Three
51-75
Star
Four
76-175
Super Star
Five
176+
Legend
Six
★ STAR PLAYER POINTS TABLE ★
Per Passing Completion …………… 1 SPP
Per Casualty …………………………. 2 SPPs
Per Interception ……………………… 2 SPPs
Per Touchdown …………………….... 3 SPPs
Per Most Valuable Player award …… 5 SPPs
2-9
New Skill
Increase the player’s MA or AV 
characteristic by 1 point or a New skill
Increase the player’s AG characteristic by 
1 point or a New skill
Increase the player’s ST characteristic by 1 
point or a New skill
★ IMPROVEMENT ROLL TABLE ★
New Skills
On any Improvement roll you may choose to take a skill from the 
Normal skill categories permitted for that player. The Normal skill 
categories allowed for each player are found in the Team Rosters 
section. For example, a Human Catcher could take a skill from 
the list of General Skills or Agility Skills. Remember to record the 
new skill on the team roster. Skills may never be removed from a 
player.
Improvements & Player Values
Every player has a value. This amount is recorded when they are 
hired. As they get better (gain skills or characteristic increases) 
their value increases. To reflect this, whenever a player rolls on 
the Improvement table, their value must be increased on the team 
roster by the amount shown on the table below. Note: Injuries the 
player suffers that reduce a characteristic do not reduce the value 
of the player.
+20’000
New Skill
+30’000
Skills that can only be taken on a double
+30’000
+1 MA or +1 AV
+40’000
+1 AG
+50’000
+1 ST
★ VALUE MODIFIERS TABLE ★
Rolling Doubles
If the Improvement Roll is a double (e.g. 1,1 or 2,2 etc), you may 
ignore the result of the Improvement table (even if it was a 
characteristic increase) and take a skill from any skill category 
that this player can access from either the Normal or Double 
column. For example, a Human Catcher could take a skill from 
the General, Agility, Strength or Passing skill categories on a 
double roll.
Characteristic Increases
An Improvement roll of 10-12 will increase one of the player’s 
characteristics. The entry will list the characteristics that may be 
improved – simply pick one and record the new value on the team 
roster. Alternatively, the coach may choose to take a new skill 
instead as described in the previous paragraph. No characteristic 
may ever be increased by more than 2 points over its starting 
value or to a value greater than 10. Any additional increases must 
be taken as new skills instead.

PLAYING LEAGUE MATCHES
League matches have their own sequences of play, which 
involves some pre-match and post-match action, as well as the 
actual game. Follow this sequence for each league match you 
play, including any tournament matches.
1. Pre-Match Sequence
1. Roll on Weather table
2. Roll for Stadium
3. Roll for Referee
4. Choose Inducements
5. Draw Special Play Cards
6. Flip For The Kick
2. The Match
1. Work out the number of Fans and FAME
2. Kick-off
3. Play the game!
3. Post-Match Sequence
1. Improvement Rolls
2. Update Team Stats
3. Fortune and FAME
4. Hire and Fire
5. Prepare for Next Match
PRE-MATCH SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The pre-match sequence must be used before every league 
match that is played. The sequence is split into three separate 
steps that are described below:
1. The Weather
One coach rolls on the Weather table to see what the weather will 
be like for the match.
2. Referee
Roll 2D6 on the table below to see whether a Famous Referee is 
in attendance.
Trundlefoot Triples
Gobin referee
Halfling referee
3. Roll for Stadium
If either team has a home stadium, randomize one coach to roll 
for Random Stadium table. If that coach’s team has a home 
stadium, then any non-standard stadium can be replaced by that 
team’s home stadium.
Unusual Playing Surface
Rough & Ready
Standard, no Attributes
Luxury Stadium
Local Crowd
A team receives +D3 fans when playing at their home stadium.
4. Inducements
Teams that are at a disadvantage are often given ‘inducements’ 
to play that will help even the odds. Usually this takes the form of 
extra gold, offered by the stadium owner to help convince a team 
to take part in a match against a superior opponent (and thus 
allowing the stadium owner to recoup his losses and more 
through tickets sales and merchandise!).
To represent this, an underdog in a match may be given a certain 
amount of gold that can be used to buy things for the team to help 
them in the upcoming match. The amount of gold the team 
receives is equal to the difference between the team value of the 
underdog team and the team value of the opposing team. For 
example, if one coach had a team value 1,000,000 gold pieces 
and the opposing coach had a team value 1,250,000 gold pieces, 
the difference between 1,000,000 and 1,250,000 is 250,000. So 
the underdog coach would be given 250,000 gold pieces to spend 
on Inducements. Any of the gold that is not spent on Inducements 
is lost and may not be added to the team treasury. In addition, 
either coach may use gold from their treasury to purchase 
Inducements. If the superior opponent wishes to purchase 
inducements with gold from his treasury, he must do so before 
the underdog purchases any of his inducements.
If the match is played at a team’s home stadium, the other team 
receives +50’000 for inducements.
Inducement List
0-2 Bloodweiser Kegs - 50’000 gold pieces
0-3 Bribes - 100’000 gold pieces
0-4 Extra Team Training - 100’000 gold pieces
0-1 Halfling Master Chef - 300’000 gold pieces
0-1 Igor - 100’000 gold pieces
Mercenaries (Unlimited) - Various prices
0-2 Star Players - Various prices
0-2 Wandering Apothecaries - 100’000 gold pieces
0-5 Special Plays - Various prices
0-2 (In)Famous Coaching Staff - Various prices
Detailed descriptions of these inducements can be found later. 
Note that limitations and special rules from the team lists apply. 
As some coaches can take a very long time deciding which 
Inducements to take, there is a four-minute time limit on selecting 
them.
All inducements purchased are lost at the end of the match. No 
inducement can ever become permanent part of your team.
5. Draw Special Play Cards
Consult the chart below to see how many cards are drawn and 
kept based on the highest Team Value out of the two teams. First, 
the player with the higher Team Value draws a number of 
face-down cards according to the Draw value, from any decks 
they wish in any combination. Then they look at the cards and 
choose which ones to keep (according to the ‘Keep’ value) 
returning any others to the bottom of their decks. The other player 
then does the same. Each ‘Special Play’ inducement adds 1 to 
both the number of cards you can draw and the number you can 
keep.
Highest TV
Draw
Keep
Up to 1'000'000 gp
1'000'000 gp to 1'990'000 gp
2'000'000 gp to 2'990'000 gp
3'000'000 gp or greater

POST-MATCH SEQUENCE
You must go through the following two steps after each and every 
league match that you play:
1. Improvement Rolls
In league matches it is possible for players to earn Star Player 
points which may give them Improvement rolls at the end of the 
match. This phase is used by each coach to allocate MVPs, 
up-date the Star Player points the players in their team have 
earned, and make any Improvement rolls for the players in their 
team.
2. Update Team Stats
If this was a Competition Match, record any League points you 
have scored. If you won the game, you score 3 League points. If 
you drew, you score 1 League point. You score no League points 
for a loss.
3. Fortune and FAME
Each coach can attempt to strike a residency deal with the 
stadium they just played in, as long as it has a special Attribute 
and it isn’t already another team’s home stadium. Roll a D6 and 
apply modifiers:
+1 if the team won
-1 if the team lost
+2 if the team has a Major Sponsorship
+2 if the team’s Fan Factor is 8 or more
+4 if the team’s Fan Factor is 13 or more
5 or less
Rejected! No deal.
It’ll Cost you… Pay all winnings from this
Match or reject the offer.
9 or more
Unconditional Offer. Deal is made.
The home stadium can be canceled at any time by spending 
50’000 gold pieces.
Each coach generates winnings for the match:
+ D6 x 10’000
Winner can re-roll D6 but must accept 2nd result
+ FAME x 10’000
+ 10’000 for winning
+ 10’000 for tie
Remember that teams who concede a match do not receive any 
winnings.
If the team played at a stadium they own, apply additional 
modifiers to winnings:
A team increases winnings by (D3 + FAME) x 10’000 
when winning at a stadium they own.
A team decreases winnings by (D3 - FAME) x 10’000 
when losing at a stadium they own (this deduction 
cannot take their winnings to less than 0).
Each coach rolls to see whether Fan Factor is modified.
If you won, roll 3D6:
If score is higher than current FF, increase by 1
If you draw, roll 2D6:
If score is higher than current FF, increase by 1 
If score is lower than current FF, reduce by 1
If you lost, roll 2D6:
If score is lower than current FF, reduce by 1
Each coach can roll a D16 adding modifiers below to see if they 
find a Sponsor:
+Fan Factor
+2 if the team owns a stadium
+2 if the team won
+1 if the team scored at least 2 more touchdowns than 
their opponent
+2 if the other team suffered at least 3 casualties 
(however they were inflicted)
+1 if the other team suffered at least 5 casualties 
(however they were inflicted)
+3 if the game was part of the play-offs
+2 if the play-off was the final
If the result is:
20 or more: One-time Sponsorship or Ongoing 
25 or more: Major Sponsorship
After rolling, a coach can choose to end any of their Ongoing 
Sponsorships or Major Sponsorship, deleting them from the roster 
(except S.I.G. Major Sponsorship).
4. Hire and Fire
If a team loses when playing at a home stadium they do not own, 
roll a D8. If the result is higher than the team’s Fan Factor or 8, 
the team loses the stadium. Spend gold from the treasury to 
modify the result. Each 30’000 gold pieces spent deducts 1 from 
the roll. A roll of 8 cannot be modified in this way.
A team that owns a stadium can choose to sell it (the match does 
not need to have taken place at that stadium). The team still stays 
on as the stadium’s resident team, they just no longer own it. To 
make the sale, roll a D6 on the table below:
Swindled. Receive 2D6 x 10’000
Sold at a Loss. Receive 100’000 + 2D6 x 10’000
Break Even! Receive 250
Update roster:
Remove any dead players from your roster
Spend gold from treasury to buy new players and 
coaching staff
Fire unwanted players or coaching staff
Buy re-rolls (costs double the amount shown on team 
lists, but only adds the basic (un-doubled) cost to the 
Team Value.
Remove any team re-rolls
If a team has any Journeymen on the roster, the coach must 
either fire them from the team or you may permanently hire them 
by paying their Rookie cost. Note that a team must have fewer 
than 16 players on its roster to hire Journeymen. If hired, a 
Journeyman loses the Loner skill but may retain any Star Player 
points they earned or skills received from Improvement table rolls.
If you want to keep any rostered Star Players, pay the upkeep 
according to the table below:
Cost (gp)
Upkeep (gp)
Up to 100’000
20’000
110’000 - 150’000
160’000 - 200’000
210’000 - 300’000
310’000 and above

100’000 to 190’000
200’000 to 290’000
300’000 to 390’000
400’000 to 490’000
500’00+
Expensive Mistakes
If you have at least 100’000 gold pieces in the Treasury at step 5 - Prepare for Next Match of the Post-match sequence, 
roll a D6 on the following table, applying the result from the column that corresponds to the amount of gold in your 
Treasury.
A team with a residency can buy their home stadium for 250’000.
Instead of paying full amount for a stadium, a team can spend 
70’000 gold pieces for a Stadium Fund. This puts 50’000 gold 
pieces into the Fund which should be noted on the team’s roster. 
A team can make any number of payments into the Fund. This 
can later be used to buy a stadium. Teams cannot access this 
money in any other way than buying a stadium.
A Major Sponsorship with S.I.G. can now be ended.
5. Prepare for Next Match
If either team as at least 100’000 gold pieces in 
their Treasury, they must roll for expensive mistakes.
If a team can only field 10 or fewer players for the next match, the 
team may add Journeymen onto the roster for free until the team 
can field 11 players for the next match. A Journeyman is always a 
player from 0-16 or 0-12 allowed position on the team’s roster. 
They count their normal Rookie cost towards the total team 
Value, but have the Loner skill as they are not used to playing 
with the team. Journeymen may take the total players on the 
team (including injured players) to more than 16 at this point.
Work out the total value of each team and record it on their roster. 
The value of a team is worked out by adding up the value of the 
team’s players (including extra values for improvements), 
coaching staff, team re-rolls and Fan Factor. Do not include the 
value of gold in your Treasury or any players that will be forced to 
miss their next match due to injury.
Conceding
A player that concedes before setting up for a kick-off where he 
could only field 2 or less players suffers no additional penalties. If 
one coach concedes the match for any other reason then the 
winner gains all of the loser’s winnings and MVP from this match. 
In addition, the loser automatically loses one Fan Factor and may 
not roll for a new one, and any players in the loser’s team that 
have 51 SPPs or more will leave the team on a D6 roll of 1- 3. 
Roll separately for each player with 51 or more SPPs to see if 
they leave.
Crisis Averted: Thanks to some careful management your team behaves itself for once!
Minor Incident: The team gets up to some mischief, and you lose D3 x 10'000 gold pieces.
Major Incident: Half the gold in your Treasury (rounding up) is lost to an unfortunate mishap.
Catastrophe: 
Your Treasury is emptied, except for 2D6 x 10'000 gold pieces which you sensibly squirted away for 
just such an occurrence.

0-2 Wandering Apothecaries: Any team may hire a Wandering 
Apothecary or two to help your team during the match for 100,000 
gold pieces each if your team can normally purchase a permanent 
Apothecary. Often these Apothecaries are powerful priests of the 
local deity. While they would never allow themselves to be a 
permanent part of a heathen Blood Bowl team, they have been 
known to assist for a single match for a generous donation to their 
faith. The rules for Wandering Apothecaries are identical to the 
rules for standard purchased Apothecaries. Only one Apothecary 
may be used to re-roll each Casualty roll.
Unlimited Mercenaries: For every player safely employed by a 
team there are dozens of freelance players who play just one 
game with a team and then move on. These are the stars who 
didn't quite make it and the cast offs from teams that went 
bankrupt. A Mercenary costs 30,000 more than an ordinary player 
of his position. For example, a Mercenary Human lineman would 
cost 80,000 gold pieces to hire for a match. The normal limits on 
the total number of players allowed in a team and in each position 
do apply to Mercenaries (so they aren't truly unlimited). However, 
players that are missing the game due to injury do not count 
towards the number of players on the team, so you can use 
Mercenaries to replace players that are missing a game if you 
wish. All Mercenaries have the Loner skill as they are unused to 
playing with the rest of the team. In addition you may choose to 
give a Mercenary one additional skill selected from those available 
to a player of that position on a Normal roll, at an additional cost of 
50,000 gold pieces. For example, a Mercenary Human lineman 
could be given Tackle if desired for a total cost of 130,000 gold 
pieces to hire for a match. Mercenaries cannot earn Star Player 
points other than the MVP for the game. Mercenaries can never 
gain new skills. 
0-5 Special Plays: There are all sorts of ways an enterprising 
coach can prepare for a gruelling match. Everything from praying 
for assistance to booby-trapping the pitch - if you can think of it, 
it’s been done. Each Special Play bought lets you draw and keep 
an additional Special Play card in the Pre-match sequence.
0-2 (In)Famous Coaching Staff: As with Star Players, it is 
possible for both teams to hire the services of the same Famous 
Coaching Staff. If this happens then neither may use them, but 
both their fees are still paid.
INDUCEMENTS IN DETAIL
0-2 Bloodweiser Babes: You purchase a keg of extra-special 
Bloodweiser magic ale for 50,000 gold pieces, and get a lovely 
lady to serve players before going out for each drive. The 
combination of the ale and the young lady serving it means that 
for each purchase of this inducement, players on the team gain a 
+1 modifier to recover from KO’d for this match.
0-3 Bribes: Goblin teams may buy a bribe for 50,000 gold pieces; 
any other team can buy a bribe for 100,000 gold pieces. Each 
bribe allows you to attempt to ignore one call by the referee for a 
player who has committed a foul to be sent off, or a player armed 
with a secret weapon to be banned from the match. Roll a D6: on 
a roll of 2-6 the bribe is effective (preventing a turnover if the 
player was ejected for fouling), but on a roll of 1 the bribe is 
wasted and the call still stands! Each bribe may be used once per 
match.
0-4 Extra Team Training: Each extra team training session costs 
100,000 gold pieces and allows the team to take one extra Team 
re-roll that may be used for this match only.
0-1 Halfling Master Chef: Halfling teams may hire a Halfling 
Master Chef for 100,000 gold pieces; any other team can hire the 
Chef for 300,000 gold pieces. Roll 3D6 at the start of each half to 
see what effect the chef’s cooking has on the team. For each dice 
that rolls 4 or more, the team is so inspired that they gain a Team 
Re-roll, and in addition the opposing team is so distracted by the 
fantastic cooking smells emanating from their opponent’s dug-out 
that they lose a Team Re-roll (but only if they have any left to 
lose).
0-1 Igor: Any team that cannot purchase a permanent 
Apothecary can hire an Igor for 100,000 gold pieces to assist the 
team. An Igor is a master of needle and thread on rotting flesh, 
connecting hip bone to leg bone, rewrapping funeral wraps and 
so on. He can really get the boys shambling back to the pitch. An 
Igor may only be used once per a game to re-roll one failed 
Regeneration roll for a player.
0-2 Star Players: Star Players are the heroes of the Blood Bowl 
arena, the most resourceful and talented players in the sport. 
Each Star Player has his own set of special skills and each is an 
individual, standing out from the rest of the players in the league 
by virtue of the unique set of skills and talents that they possess. 
Star players act as free agents playing single matches for any 
team that can afford their high fees (and that they are willing to 
assist in the first place), and then moving on to play for another 
team. You may hire up to two Star Players that are allowed to 
play for your team. Unless your league commissioner decides 
otherwise, deaths and serious injuries inflicted on Star Players 
are waived after the match. Star Players may not take the number 
of players in the team to more than 16. However, players that are 
missing the game due to injury do not count towards the number 
of players on the team, so you can use Star Players to replace 
players that are missing a game if you wish. It is possible (though 
unlikely) for both teams to induce the same Star Player. If this 
happens then neither may use him and he keeps both sets of 
hiring fees!
Star Players can never earn Star Player points other than the 
MVP for the game. Star Player can never gain new skills. Finally 
purchased/induced Apothecaries or an Igor may not be used on 
Star Players ever. Star Players employ their own personal 
trainers and apothecaries who travel with them to heal them from 
almost any injury (including death) and to get in shape for their 
next match and will not use your team's amateur physicians.

“By the Power of the Gods!”
At the start of each drive, immediately before the kick-off, Papa 
Skullbones can attempt to bless one player on his team (not a 
Star Player). Pick a player on the pitch, then roll a D8 on the table 
below. If they gain a skill, they keep it until the end of the drive, if 
they already have the skill, it has no additional effect. Each player 
can only be chosen once per game.
HORATIO X. SCOTTENHEIM, MASTER MAGE
Available to any team
“Take this! Oops…”
Once per half, Horatio can cast a fireball. This is done at the start 
of his team’s turn (before any player performs an Action), or 
immediately after his team’s turn has ended (even if it ended with 
a turnover). Choose a target anywhere on the pitch, then roll for 
scatter and move the target square D3 squares in that direction. 
Roll one dice to hit each standing player (from either team) that is 
either in the target square or adjacent to it. On a 4+, the target is 
Knocked Down. Make an Armour roll (and possible Injury roll) for 
each player Knocked Down as if they had been Knocked Down 
by a player with the Mighty Blow skill. If a player on Horatio’s 
team is knocked down by a fireball, they do not suffer a turnover 
unless that player was carrying the ball at the time.
KARI COLDSTEEL, NORSE CHEERLEADER
Available to Amazon, Dwarf, Human and Norse teams
“If you want a Job Done…”
Kari counts as 3 Cheerleaders. In addition, if her team cannot set 
up 11 players at the start of a drive, Kari may decide to show ‘em 
how it’s done! Her team’s coach can choose to remove her from 
the sidelines area and set her up as part of the team. If they do 
so, she counts as part of the team for the duration of the drive, 
instead of counting as 3 Cheerleaders. When the drive ends, the 
ref sends her to the dungeons and she has no further effect on 
the game.
(IN)FAMOUS COACHING STAFF
Kari Coldsteel
Loner, Block, 
Dauntless, Frenzy
FINK DA FIXER, GOBLIN PERSONAL ASSISTANT
Available to Ogre, Orc, Goblin and Underworld Denizens teams
“You got it, Boss!”
Fink counts as 3 Assistant Coaches. In addition, Bribes can be 
re-rolled. Finally, argue the call succeeds on a 5+, not 6. 
However, if an attempt to argue the call fails, Fink is sent to the 
dungeon along with the Head Coach and has no further effect on 
the game.
PAPA SKULLBONES, CHAOS SHAMAN
Available to Chaos Chosen, Chaos Renegades and Nurgle Teams
D8
Unworthy. Knocked Out.
Overlooked. Pick a random player on the same 
team, (excluding players not on the pitch and 
players whom a roll on this table has previously 
been made) and roll on this table again.
Freakish Proportions. Big Hand and Very Long 
Legs.
Grasping Tendrils. Tentacles and Prehensile Tail.
Horrific Visage. Disturbing Presence and Foul 
Appearance.
Grisly Bifurcation. Extra Arms and Two Heads.
Thorny Protrusions. Claws and Horns.
Favour of the Gods. Pick one of the above results.
GALANDRIL SILVERWATER, ELVEN CHEERLEADING COACH
Available to Elven Union, High Elf and Wood Elf teams
“Go Team!”
Each time the number of Cheerleaders is used, the team counts 
as having twice as many as normal. If it does not have any, it 
counts as having one. In addition, each time a player on 
Galandril’s team scores a touchdown, intercepts the ball or inflicts 
a Casualty, roll a D6. On a 6, the team gains an additional team 
re-roll.
KROT SHOCKWHISKER, SKAVEN ENGINEER
Available to Skaven and Underworld Denizens teams
“A New Playthi… er, Patient!”
At the start of any drive, immediately before his team sets up, Krot 
can pick a player from the Dead & Injured box (not dead and not a 
Star Player) and roll a D6 on the table that follows. Note that any 
permanent injury which put a player in the Dead & Injured box still 
applies.
There Were… Complications. Roll for Casualty. 
Miss Next Game results don’t stack.
Useless Flesh-thing! No effect.
Flawed Execution. The player is returned to the 
Reserves box and can be set up with the rest of the 
team. However, until the end of the drive, they have 
the Really Stupid skill. If they already have it, apply 
a -1 modifier to any Really Stupid rolls until the end 
of the drive. At the end of the drive, they are 
returned to the Dead & Injured box if they are not 
already there.
Witness Perfection! The player is returned to the 
Reserves box and can be set up with the rest of the 
team. At the end of the drive, they are returned to 
the Dead & Injured box if they are not already there.

SKILL: PILING ON (STRENGTH)
The player may use this skill after they have made a block as part 
of a Block or Blitz Action, but only if they are currently standing 
adjacent to the victim and the victim was Knocked Down. You can 
use a team re-roll to re-roll the Armour roll or Injury roll; if the 
blocking player has the Loner skill, they must roll as normal to see 
whether they can use the re-roll. Then the Piling On player is 
Placed Prone in their own square - no Armour roll is made for 
them, Piling On does not cause a turnover unless the Piling On 
player is carrying the ball. Piling On cannot be used with the Stab 
or Chainsaw skills.
FREE FAN FACTOR
Instead of allowing teams to purchase Fan Factor when they are 
created, they might have Fan Factor for free. All teams under this 
rule would start with a Fan Factor of 5 for no cost. Fan Factor 
never adds to a team’s value and changes in Fan Factor from 
Post-game rolls do not affect Team Value.
INDUCEMENT: Master of Ballistics
0-1 Master of Ballistics: As an inducement, a Human team can 
hire up to one Master of Ballistics at a cost of 30'000 gold pieces, 
in the same way as any other inducement. A Master of Ballistics, 
often graduate of the imperial Artillery School, is an expert when it 
comes to such subjects as dynamic trigonometry, aerodynamic 
resistance and the correct method for applying kinetic force, ie. 
how best to punt the ball up-field.
When the team kicks the ball at the start of a drive, the Master of 
Ballistics can coach the kicker, sharing some insights that will 
hopefully improve the kick's accuracy. Roll a D6 and refer to the 
results below.
1-2: Complete Misunderstanding - The kicker has rather 
missed the point, and the ball scatters as normal.
3-4: Interesting Theory... - The Master of Ballistics became 
sidetracked explaining a fascinating new theory, and ran out of 
time to finish what he was getting at.
The ball scatters one less square than normal.
5-6: Successful Practical Application - By jove, the kicker's 
grasped it! After rolling for scatter, the kicking team's coach can 
choose to increase or decrease the result of either the D6 or the 
D8 by up to two. They cannot change it to an impossible result - 
the lowest possible result is 1 and the highest is 6 (for the D6) 
and 8 (for the D8).
INDUCEMENT: Waaagh! Drummer
0-1 Waaagh! Drummer: As an inducement, an Orc team can hire 
up to one Waaagh! Drummer at a cost of 50'000 gold pieces, in 
the same way as any other inducement.
Orcs live to fight, and a long tradition is that they have marched to 
battle to the sound of a menacing drumbeat. This not only keeps 
the lads moving in the right direction, it can also be downright 
terrifying for the other side! Many teams have begun to introduce 
the same idea to Blood Bowl matches, in the hope of replicating 
this effect.
At the start of each drive, after the kick-off has been resolved but 
before the receiving team begins their turn, roll 3D6. For each 
dice that scores a 6, the team with the Waaagh! Drummer can 
pick an opposing player and move them D3 squares straight 
towards their own End Zone. Dodge rolls do not need to be made 
for this move. If a player's path is blocked by another player, they 
stop moving. If they move into a square with the ball, they
must attempt to pick it up.
OPTIONAL LEAGUE RULES
The easiest way for a League Commissioner to tweak a league is 
to change the starting Treasury that can be used to draft a team. 
For example, you could say that at the start of the league, all 
teams have 1’000’000 gp, but that this increases by 100’000 gold 
pieces each season.
Another way to personalise your league is to change the prizes 
that are awarded at the end of the season. The winner of the 
Dungeonbowl, for example, gets to add a Wizard to their 
permanent coaching staff for the duration of the following season, 
while the winner of Spike! Magazine Trophy gets a boost to their 
Fan Factor (thanks to all the press coverage).
Here are some other variants you might wish to try out.
EXCLUDING INDUCEMENTS IN LEAGUE PLAY
A Commissioner is allowed to remove any specific inducement(s) 
from the list of allowed inducements that they feel do not work for 
their league environment. Common inducements that might be 
excluded include disallowing Star Players or Bribes.
SPIRALLING EXPENSES
This additional rule restricts the earnings of high level teams, 
providing a slight handicap:
Once a team’s value equals or exceeds 1,750,000 gold pieces 
they must deduct an amount from its winnings during the Post 
match sequence. This starts at 10'000 gp, but each time the 
Team Value increases by another 150'000 gp above 1’750'000 
gp, the deduction increases by 10'000 gp. In other words, deduct 
10'000 gp for teams with a vlaue between 1'750'000 gp and 
1'890'000 gp; deduct 20'000 gp for teams with a value between 
1'900'000 gp and 2’040'000 gp; deduct 30'000 gb for teams 
between 2'050'000 gp and 2'190'000 gp, and so on. Spiralling 
expenses can never reduce a team’s treasury to less than zero.
INDUCEMENT: Wizard
0-1 Wizard: You may hire a Wizard to help your team during the 
match for 150,000 gold pieces. 
Once per game, the Wizard is allowed to cast either a fireball 
spell or a lightning bolt spell. Wizards may only cast spells at the 
start of their own turn before any player performs an Action OR 
immediately after their own team's turn has ended even if it ended 
with a turnover.
Fireball: Choose a target square anywhere on the pitch. Roll one 
dice to hit each standing player (from either team) that is either in 
the target square or a square adjacent to it. If the 'to hit' roll is a 4 
or more then the target is Knocked Down. If it is a 3 or less he 
manages to dodge the fireball’s blast. Make an Armour roll (and 
possible Injury as well) for any player that is Knocked Down as if 
they had been Knocked Down by a player with the Mighty Blow 
skill. If a player on the moving team is Knocked Down by a 
fireball, then the moving team does not suffer a turnover unless 
the player was carrying the ball at the time.
 
Lightning Bolt: Pick a standing player anywhere on the pitch, 
and roll one dice. If the score is a 2 or higher, then he has been 
hit by the lightning bolt. If the roll is a 1 then he manages to dodge 
out of the way. A player hit by a lightning bolt is Knocked Down 
and must make an Armour roll (and possible Injury as well) as if 
hit by a player with the Mighty Blow skill.

INDUCEMENT: Runesmith
0-1 Runesmith: As an inducement, a Dwarf or Slayer Hold team 
can hire up to one Runesmith at a cost of 30'000 gold pieces, in 
the same way as any other inducement. Runesmithing is the 
closest Dwarves come to using magic. None of this airy-fairy, 
wave-your-hands-in-the-air nonsense, mind - Runesmiths work 
with hammer and anvil, beating enchanted sigils into a player’s 
armour between drives. At the start of any drive, immediately after 
setting your team up, you can pick one of your players on the 
pitch and choose one of the following runes. Then roll a D6. On a 
3+ the rune takes effect and the Runesmith cannot be used again 
for the rest of the match. If the roll failed, the rune does not work, 
but the Runesmith can be used again in a later drive. Star 
Players, being very protective of their kit, cannot be affected by 
runes.
Each rune lasts until the end of the drive:
Rune of Might: +1 ST
Rune of Fury: Dauntless, Mighty Blow, Frenzy
Rune of Speed: +2 MA
Rune of Iron: +1 AV and Stand Firm
Rune of Impact: Juggernaut and Horns
INDUCEMENT: Warlock Engineer
0-1 Warlock Engineer: As an inducement, a Skaven team can 
hire up to one Warlock Engineer at a cost of 120’000 gold pieces, 
in the same way as any other inducement. Warlock Engineers are 
the masters of warpstone technology, and the first thing they 
learn is how to create and manipulate warp lightning. This 
crackling, greenish energy is both the basis and the fuel for most 
of their contraptions, but unleashed in its raw form it can deliver a 
deadly shock!
Once per game, the Warlock Engineer can cast a bolt of war 
lightning from the sidelines. This can either be done at the start of 
their own turn, before any player performs an action, or 
immediately after their own turn as ended (even if it ended in a 
turnover). Pick any square that is adjacent to the sidelines to be 
the lightning’s starting point. It moves in a straight line towards the 
opposite side lines, hitting the first player in its path from either 
team. Make an Armour Roll for that player. If the roll fails, the 
player is unaffected and the bolt carries on moving towards the 
opposite sidelines, striking the next player in its path. Make an 
Armour Roll for that player in the same way. Keep doing this until 
an Armour Roll succeeds or the bolt moves off the pitch.
When an Armour Roll succeeds, the player that the roll was made 
for is Knocked Down, and an Injury Roll is made for them. Then, 
warp lightning arcs to each standing player that is adjacent. Roll a 
D6 for each: on a 4+ they are also Knocked Down. Note that the 
lightning does not carry on arcing!

ROSTERED STAR PLAYERS
THE STAR PLAYER POOL
Cost (gp)
Upkeep (gp)
Up to 100’000
20’000
110’000 to 150’000
160’000 to 200’000
210’000 to 300’000
310’000 and above
ROSTERED STAR PLAYERS ON THE FIELD 
A team can only have a single rostered Star Player
A team with a rostered Star Player can only add one Star 
Player to their team through inducements, not two
A Star Player can only be hired/rostered by a single team
A Star Player who is rostered is unavailable for 
hire/rostering by other teams
UPKEEP
Star Players are kept as long as upkeep is paid
Upkeep is paid during the end of Phase 4: Hire and Fire of 
the Post-match sequence
Paying upkeep is optional
If upkeep is not paid, the Star Player is available for other 
teams again
Rostered Star Players always count as having the Fan 
Favourite skill
If injured, they are automatically treated as Badly Hurt 
(miss rest of match)
Cannot gain Star Player points in any way
Can be awarded MVP (if the league uses a system of 
random allocation)

SPONSORSHIP DEALS
Teams can attempt to find a Sponsor during the Post-match 
sequence at the end of Phase 3: Record Fortune and Fame. If the 
coach wishes to seek a Sponsor, they roll a D16, then add their 
Fan Factor and any of the following cumulative modifiers that 
apply:
MAJOR SPONSORSHIPS
A team can only have one Major Sponsor at the time, but a Major 
Sponsor can sponsor more than one team at a time. A team can 
choose to end their deal with a Major Sponsorship in the same 
way as an Ongoing Sponsorship.
MCMURTY’S BURGER EMPORIUM
Award: At the start of each half, roll a D6. On a 5+, receive a 
team re-roll. 
Drawback: Players cannot improve MA or AG characteristics 
while sponsored by McMurty’s.
FARBLAST & SONS ORDNANCE SOLUTIONS
Dark Elf, Elven Union, High Elf and Wood Elf cannot accept this 
sponsorship.
Award: A standard line player (i.e., 0-16 positionals) gains 
Bombardier, Loner and Secret Weapon skills as long as the 
sponsorship lasts.
Drawback: The team’s winnings are reduced by 20’000 gold 
pieces.
STAR INSURANCE GUILD
Award: When a player dies, receive half of the current value 
(rounding up).
Drawback: Roll a D6. If the result is equal to or lower than the 
number of players that were removed from the roster, pay 2D6 x 
10’000. If the amount isn’t paid, the treasury is emptied and the 
deal with S.I.G is ended and the team is blacklisted and cannot 
be sponsored by them ever again. D3 random players on the 
team must miss the next game.
A deal with the Star Insurance Guild can only be ended at the end 
of any Post-match sequence.
STEELHELM’S SPORTING EMPORIUM
Award: Roll 3D6 and keep any 2 dice when rolling on the 
Improvement table for a player.
Drawback: If two or more of the dice roll the same number, the 
player must miss next game. If two or more dice roll a 1, the 
player also gain a Niggling Injury.
If the result is:
+2 if the team owns a stadium
+2 if the team won
+1 if the team scored at least 2 more touchdowns than their 
opponent
+2 if the other team suffered at least 3 casualties (however 
they were inflicted)
+1 if the other team suffered at least 5 casualties (however 
they were inflicted)
+3 if the game was part of the play-offs
+2 if the play-off was the final
or 
more: 
One-time 
or 
Ongoing 
25 or more: Major Sponsorship
ONE-TIME SPONSORSHIP
Receive D6 x 60’000 gold pieces. Roll a second D6. If the result 
is a 1, a random player on the team (not rostered Star Player) 
must miss the next match.
ONGOING SPONSORSHIPS
Receive D3 x 10’000 gold pieces. Roll a D6. If the result is a 1, a 
random player on the team must miss the next match (if they are 
already missing the next match, there is no further effect).
Teams can have any number of Ongoing Sponsorships - however 
the roll to see if a random player misses the next game must be 
made for each one.
After rolling, a coach can choose to end any of their Ongoing 
Sponsorships, deleting them from the roster.

UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE
Ankle-deep Water. If a player is Knocked Down 
while Going For It or Dodging, subtract 1 from the 
Armor Roll. In addition, when a player recovers from 
being Stunned, roll a D6. On a 1, they remain 
Stunned for another turn.
Sloping Pitch. At the start of each drive, randomize 
towards which team’s End Zone the pitch is sloping. 
At half-time, the teams change sides and the pitch 
slopes the opposite way. Whenever the ball 
bounces, do not use the Scatter template, instead 
use the Throw-in template oriented directly down the 
slope. In addition, players can Go For It one 
additional time, as long as it takes them downwards.
Ice. After the ball bounces, it moves one more 
square in the same direction. Also, whenever a 
player is Knocked Down, they slide one square in a 
random direction. If they would slide into an 
occupied square, they do not move. If they slide off 
the pitch, make an Injury roll as normal. If they slide 
into the square with the ball, the ball bounces.
Astrogranite. Add 1 to all Armour rolls. If a player 
fails, roll a D6. On a 4+, the player stays standing 
and there is no turnover, but they cannot attempt to 
Go For It again this Action.
Uneven Footing. All players have -1 MA (to a 
minimum of 3). However, players can Go For It one 
more time than normal.
Solid Stone. If the ball bounces into an unoccupied 
square, it will bounce one more time. In addition, 
add 1 to all Injury rolls.
ROUGH & READY STADIUM
Apathetic Officials. Each team gets a bonus Bribe 
in each half of the game.
Appalling Stands. After each drive, each coach 
rolls a D6. On a roll of 1, apply -1 FAME (this can 
take it into negative figures). The team’s winnings at 
the end of the match cannot go below 0!
Uncovered Trapdoors. If a player moves into a 
Trapdoor square (voluntarily or otherwise), they are 
counted as having been pushed into the crowd. If 
the ball bounces into a Trapdoor square, it scatters 
D6 in a random direction.
Unclear Markings. The kicking team can choose to 
move the line of scrimmage can be moved one 
square forward or back. This creates a temporary 
halfway line for setting up both teams this kick-off 
and is also used for the purposes of touchback. In 
addition, the limit of two players per wide zone 
during setup does not apply for either team.
Desperate for Exposure. Each team receives an 
additional D6 x 10’000 after the match (both teams 
receive the same amount).
Poorly Built Dungeons. At the start of a drive, 
players that has been sent off return on a 5+.
STADIUMS
At the start of the Pre-match sequence, roll 2D6 on the Random 
Stadium table.
Roll a D6 on the corresponding stadium table if the result is a 
non-standard stadium.
Unusual Playing Surface
Rough & Ready
Standard, no Attributes
Luxury Stadium
Local Crowd

Integrated Merchandise Stalls. Each coach add 
an extra D3 x 10’000 to their total winnings.
Reputation for Spectacle. Each coach receives an 
extra 2D6 x 10’000 for inducements (the same 
amount goes to both teams).
Broadcast Studio. Star Players are 50’000 cheaper 
(minimum 10’000). Add 3 to the result of each 
coach’s dice roll when determining changes to Fan 
Factor.
On-site Apothecaries. Each team receives +1 
Apothecary (or a re-roll if the team is forbidden from 
using an Apothecary).
Enclosed Pitch. Players cannot be pushed into the 
crowd. Instead, the player is Knocked Down in the 
square they were pushed from. Make an Armour 
Roll. In addition, the ball moves only D3 instead of 
2D6 when scattering back into the pitch.
Deluxe Seating. At the start of each drive after the 
first, each coach rolls a D3 and adds their FAME. If 
the result is higher than the number of team re-rolls 
they currently have, they gain a bonus team re-roll.
LUXURY STADIUM
LOCAL CROWD
Ale-fuelled Maniacs. Before rolling on the Kick-off 
table, roll a D6. If the result is a 1 (for the first half) 
or 1-2 (for the second half), do not roll on the 
Kick-off table. Instead, roll another D6: 1= Get the 
ref, 2-3 = Riot, 4-5 = Throw a Rock, 6 = Pitch 
Invasion
Boisterous Rabble. Each coach gets +1 FAME 
(maximum 2). Add +1 to Injury rolls when a player is 
pushed into the crowd.
Know-it-all Hecklers. If a player is fouled off the 
pitch and the fouling player is not sent off as a 
result, roll a D6. On a 1-3, the player is sent off as 
though they had rolled a double on the Armour roll 
or Injury roll.
Bunch of Pacifists. If a player is Stunned, Knocked 
Out or Injured by a result of the Kick-off table, roll a 
D6. On a 4+, the result is ignored. If a player is 
pushed into the crowd, on a 4+ they are placed 
straight into their Reserves box.
Fair Weather Fans. At the start of each drive after 
the first, roll a D6. On 1-2, a large number of fans 
have left. Each player’s FAME is reduced by 1 - this 
can take it into negative figures (team’s winning at 
the end of the match cannot go below 0). In 
addition, if the ball leaves play, roll a D6 subtracting 
1 for each time a large number of fans have left. On 
a 4+, the ball is thrown back as normal. Otherwise it 
is not thrown back in until the end of the next turn 
(from the square it left play).
Solemn and Silent. During the match, each team’s 
FAME is counted as 0 (it is used as normal during 
Post-match sequence). Cheerleaders have no effect 
on Kick-off table results. If a player is pushed into 
the crowd (after the pushing player have decided to 
follow up or not), the pushed player is returned to 
the pitch in a square adjacent to the sidelines and 
as close as possible to the square they left. If they 
were Knocked Down during the push, they are 
Placed Prone and an Armour roll is made for them 
as normal. Otherwise, they return to play standing.

TAKING OWNERSHIP
A team with a residency can buy their home stadium at the ‘Hire 
and Fire’ step of the Post-match sequence.
BECOMING RESIDENTS
A team can attempt to strike a residency deal with the stadium 
they just played in, as long as it has a special Attribute and it isn’t 
already another team’s home stadium. This happens at the start 
of the ‘Record Fortune and Fame’ step of the Post-match 
sequence. The team rolls a D6 on the table below, apply the 
following cumulative modifiers:
+1 if the team won
-1 if the team lost
+2 if the team has a Major Sponsorship
+2 if the team’s Fan Factor is 8 or more
+4 if the team’s Fan Factor is 13 or more
5 or less
9 or more
Rejected! No deal.
It’ll Cost You… Pay all winnings from this 
match or reject the offer.
Unconditional Offer. Deal is made.
Make a note of the deal on the team’s roster along with a name of 
the new home stadium and its special Attribute.
A team can only ever have one home stadium.
The home stadium can be canceled at any time by 
spending 50’000 gold pieces.
If both teams wish to have the same stadium after a match, 
the highest result is offered the arrangement. If both 
players roll the same, neither is offered an agreement.
If either team has a home stadium, randomize one coach to 
roll for Random Stadium table. If that coach’s team has a 
home stadium, then any non-standard stadium can be 
replaced by that team’s home stadium.
A team receives +D3 fans when playing at an home 
stadium.
The opponent gets +50’000 for inducements.
A player from the home team that is pushed into the crowd 
are placed directly in the Reserves box on a 5+ instead of 
suffering an Injury roll.
If a team loses when playing at the home stadium, roll a D8 
at the start of the Hire and Fire phase of the Post-match 
sequence. If the result is higher than the team’s Fan Factor 
or 8, the team loses the stadium. Spend gold from the 
treasury to modify the result. Each 30’000 gold pieces 
spent deducts 1 from the roll. A roll of 8 cannot be modified 
in this way.
A team can only ever own one home stadium.
A team cannot take up a residency while owning a stadium.
A team increases winnings by (+D3 +FAME) x 10’000 
when winning at a stadium they own.
A team decreases winnings by (D3 - FAME) x 10’000 
when losing at a stadium they own (this deduction cannot 
take their winnings to less than 0).
A team that owns its home stadium never loses it.
PARTIAL PAYMENTS
Instead of paying full amount for a stadium, a team can spend 
70’000 gold pieces at the ‘Hire and Fire’ step of the Post-match 
sequence. This puts 50’000 gold pieces into the team’s Stadium 
Fund which should be noted on the team’s roster. A team can 
make any number of payments into the Fund after a game. This 
can later be used to buy a stadium. Teams cannot access this 
money in any other way than buying a stadium.
SELLING UP
At the start of the ‘Hire and Fire’ step of the Post-match 
sequence, a team that owns a stadium can choose to sell it (the 
match does not need to have taken place at that stadium). The 
team still stays on as the stadium’s resident team, they just no 
longer own it. To make the sale, roll a D6 on the table below:
Swindled. Receive 2D6 x 10’000.
Sold at a Loss. Receive 100’000 + 2D6 x 
10’000.
Break Even! Receive 250’000..

Match events are a great way to add some unexpected situations 
to games of Blood Bowl. Unlike Special Play cards, they are 
triggered at a random turn during the match, neither player knows 
which match event will be triggered or which turn it comes into 
play! Each player gets their own match event in one of their own 
randomized turn.
Standard Match Events:
Human and Human Nobility Match Events: 
Orc and Savage Orc Match Events: 
Dwarf and Slayer Hold Match Events: 
Skaven and Pestilent Vermin Match Events: 
Standard Match Events:
*POP* (1)
With a loud band, the ball bursts! The rules are a little fuzzy 
on what’s meant to happen in this scenario, but the ref is 
happy to let play continue for now and see what happens. 
If the ball is not currently being carried, it is removed from play. If 
it is being carried, it can no longer be thrown with a Pass action, 
but can still be handed off. If the ball touches the ground before 
the end of the drive (the player carrying it is knocked over, a 
hand-off is failed and the ball is not recovered, etc.) the ball is 
removed from play. When the ball is removed from play, place a 
marker (such as a spare Blood Bowl coin) in the last square it 
was in. During this turn, after each player completes their action, 
roll a D6. If the result is less than the number of players that have 
completed their actions this turn, the ball is thrown back into play 
by an official. It is thrown in automatically at the end of the turn if it 
has not already been. Replace the marker with the ball, it then 
scatters three times, in the same way as an inaccurate pass.
Abusive Fans (2)
No one expects a Blood Bowl crowd to be polite and 
pleasant, but today the fans are going out of their way to 
insult the players. It’ll put them off their game, sure, but it 
really isn’t the wisest choice for fans who want to keep their 
legs intact… 
All the players that are within 3 squares of the edge of the board 
suffer a -1 modifier to all Agility tests until the end of the drive, at 
which point both teams make their way into the crowd to set some 
things straight.
Amnesty (3)
Today just happens to be the anniversary of the founding of 
the RARG, and the Ref’s decided to celebrate by being 
lenient for once. 
Any players that have been sent off are returned to the Reserves 
box of their team’s dugout. If no players have been sent off, the 
Ref will not watch for fouls for the rest of this drive – if a foul is 
committed, the fouling player will not be sent off, even if a double 
is rolled. (Note that players can still be sent off for other reasons, 
such as using a Secret Weapon.)
MATCH EVENTS
Appeal for Silence (4)
“Will the spectators please quieten down, and allow the 
players to concentrate on the game! This is the last time I 
shall ask nicely.” Unfortunately, telling a Blood Bowl crowd 
what to do is never wise, and asking nicely isn’t the only 
thing that the Ref won’t be doing for a while. 
Until the start of the triggering team’s next turn, there is no 
referee! Teams can make up to three Foul actions during their 
turn, rather than one, and even if a double is rolled on the Armour 
or Injury roll, the fouling player will not be sent off. (Players can 
still be sent off at the end of a drive, i.e. for having a secret 
weapon.)
Burning Barrel (5)
A particularly mischievous fan has thrown a lit barrel of tar 
on the pitch. Such behavior shows complete disregard for the 
safely of players, officials and fans alike, and as such is 
frowned upon by some. 
The triggering player places a marker (a spare Blood Bowl coin is 
ideal) in a square of the pitch, then moves it D6 squares in a 
random direction (determined by the scatter template). IF it moves 
off the pitch, or would end in an occupied square, it stops in the 
last square before it leaves. The square containing the marker 
contains the burning barrel. Players cannot enter the square or be 
pushed into it, and if the ball lands in or bounces into the square it 
will bounce again, in addition, the squares adjacent to the barrel 
are ablaze, and any attempt to pick pa ball in one of them has a -1 
modifier. If a player ends an action standing in one of those 
squares, roll a D6. If the result is higher than their ST, they are 
Knocked Down. At the end of each player’s turn, roll a D6, adding 
1 to the result if the current Weather is Pouring Rain or a Blizzard. 
On a result of 6, the fire goes out and the marker is removed. 
Otherwise, it is removed at the end of the drive.
Camra Crash (6)
High above the stadium, held aloft by alchemical ingenuity 
(and more than a little magic), a Cabalvision camra has been 
recording the match for broadcast. Suddenly, with a loud 
BANG as something goes wrong within its workings, it is 
sent hurtling toward the pitch… 
The trigger player places a marker (a spare Blood Bowl coin is 
ideal) in any square of the pitch, then moves it D6 squares in a 
random direction (determined by the scatter template). If it moves 
off the pitch, it stops in the last square before it leaves. If a player 
is in the square with the marker, they are immediately Pushed two 
squares in a random direction (determined using by the scatter 
template) and Knocked Down. The square containing the marker, 
and all squares that are adjacent to it, are filled with wreckage. 
Players cannot move into or through those squares, and if the ball 
lands in or bounces into one of them it will bounce. Remove the 
marker at the end of the drive.
Commercial Endorsement (7)
One of the players has signed a contract with a sponsor, 
agreeing to mention their product to the crowd during the 
match in exchange for some extra funds. Unfortunately, they 
forgot they were meant to do it until now. 
Pick a random player from the triggering team (discounting 
players that are not on the pitch). That player cannot act this turn, 
although they can still give assists as normal.

Distracted Ref (8)
There’s a sudden commotion in the stands, serious enough 
to draw the referee’s attention! Quick, while he’s not 
looking… 
If the triggering team has fewer than 11 players on the pitch, they 
can immediately take on player from their Reserves box and put 
them in either of the corner squares of their End Zone. The player 
can be activated as normal from this turn onward. If they do not 
do this, they can make a Foul action this turn without the fouling 
player being at risk of being sent off.
Dodgy Trapdoor (9)
One of the trapdoors leading to the dungeon under the pitch 
as got a loose latch, and has swung open without warning! 
Randomly pick one of the two trapdoors on the pitch. For the rest 
of the drive, if a player moves into that trapdoor’s square 
(voluntarily or otherwise), they are counted as having been 
pushed into the crowd. If the ball moves into the square, it will be 
thrown back out by a helpful groundskeeper, immediately 
scattering D6 squares in a random direction.
Dreadful Stench (10)
Uh-oh…have the latrines backed up again? Or is that a 
Nurgle fan club? Or, horror of horrors: is Daisy Palmer’s 
Fried Lard Stand back in business? In any case, something 
smells awful. 
The triggering team’s coach places a marker (a spare Blood Bowl 
coin is ideal) in any square on the pitch, then rolls for scatter and 
moves the marker in that direction until it is either in an End Zone 
or in a square that is adjacent to the sidelines. The marker does 
not block movement or the ball in any way, but any player must 
subtract 1 from the D6 when they pass, intercept or catch if they 
are within six squares of the marker. The marker is removed at 
the end of the drive.
Enchanted Ball (11)
From somewhere in the crowd there’s the unmistakable 
sound of a spell being cast, and the ball suddenly takes on a 
life of its own! All it wants, it seems, is to be picked up and 
carried around. Hopefully, it won’t take too long for the 
enchantment to be dispelled. 
Until the start of the triggering team’s next turn, any attempts to 
pick up or catch the ball and a +1 modifier.
Enthusiastic Apothecary (12)
There’s a new quack in town, and they’re keen to show off 
their services in the hope of getting some work. 
The next time a player from either team suffers a Casualty or is 
KO’d, the apothecary will rush forward to help them. Roll a D6. 
On a 4, 5 or 6, the players is Stunned instead.
Feud! (13)
There’s been a long-standing animosity between two players 
on the pitch, and it looks like it just reached dangerous 
levels. 
Pick a random player from each team (excluding players that are 
not on the pitch). If one of those players throws a Block against 
the other, their Strength is increased by 2 and they gain the 
Mighty Blow skill. This lasts until the end of the drive.
Magical Interference (14)
A robed fan, who has been watching quietly from the front 
row suddenly stands up and starts waving his arms about in 
a complex pattern, chanting strange syllables. Fans scatter 
as they realise there’s a wizard in their midst! 
The triggering team’s coach places a marker (a spare Blood Bowl 
coin is ideal) in any square on the pitch, even an occupied one, 
then rolls for scatter and moves the marker D3 squares in that 
direction. The square containing the marker is the target of a 
magical fireball. Roll a D6 for each standing player (from either 
team) that is in the target square, or adjacent to it. On a roll of a 4 
or more, the player is Knocked Down, and an Armour roll (and 
possibly Injury roll) is made for them as though they had been 
blocked by a player with the Mighty Blow skill. If a player on the 
triggering team is Knocked Down, this does not cause a turnover 
unless they were carrying the ball. Remove the marker once this 
has been resolved.
Moment of Glory (15)
One player on the moving team has decided that it’s their 
time to shine, and they refuse to wait. 
Pick a random player on the triggering team who is on the pitch. If 
that player is the first to be activated this turn, any one dice roll for 
them (except Armour, Injury or Casualty rolls) can be re-rolled this 
turn without using a skill or spending a team re-roll, even if they 
are prone or stunned.
Pelted with Projectiles (16)
The crowd, whether because they disapprove of what’s 
happening on the pitch or because they’re just bored, start 
flinging empty bottles, discarded food baskets, rotten fruit 
and all manner of other projectiles at the players. It’s not 
enough to cause harm, but it really does start piling up… 
Until the end of the current drive, any attempts to pick up the ball 
have an additional -1 modifier. In addition, if a player wishes to Go 
For It more than once during their action, the second and 
subsequent attempts will fail on a roll of a 1 or 2.
Sprinkler Malfunction (17)
As standard, NAF-regulated pitches must have mechanical 
water irrigation systems to ensure the grass stays nice and 
green. Unfortunately, they sometimes go off on their own… 
Until the start of the triggering team’s next turn, there is an 
additional -1 modifier to Catch, Intercept and Pick-up rolls.
Streaker (18)
There’s a whoop from the crown as a barely-clothed fan leaps 
at the barrier and springs across the pitch. They must have a 
death wish! 
The triggering player places a marker to represent the streaker (a 
Blood Bowl coin or spare, unused miniature is ideal) in any 
unoccupied square that is adjacent to one of the sidelines. At the 
end of each player’s turn, place the thrown-in template over the 
streaker, with the 3-4 result pointing directly at the opposite 
sideline. Roll a random direction, they move the streaker D3 
squares in that direction. If they would move to an occupied 
square, or off on of the short edges of the pitch, place the throw-in 
template over them again, still pointing in the same direction, and 
randomly pick a new direction for the remainder of their move. If 
there are no unoccupied squares for them to move into, they say 
where they are. If they move off the opposite side of the pitch from 
where they started, they are removed with no effect.

Tizcan Wave (19)
It’s the new craze that’s sweeping the Blood Bowl circuit! 
Nothing brings the fans together like taking part in this wave 
as it circles the stadium. 
The triggering team’s coach puts a marker (such as a spare 
Blood Bowl coin) in the leftmost square of their End Zone. At the 
start of each turn, including this one the player whose turn it is 
rolls the D16 and moves the marker around the edge of the 
playing field. The marker does not block the ball or players in any 
way, and can move through occupied squares. If the marker is 
adjacent to one of the sidelines, it affects all of the squares in its 
row (i.e. between it and the opposite sideline). If the marker is in 
an End Zone, it affects all of the squares in its column (i.e. 
between it and the opposite End Zone) and in the same half as it. 
Players from either team count as having the Pro skill while they 
are in an affected square. As soon as the marker reaches the 
square it started in, or when the drives ends, it is removed.
Total Darkness (20)
Hey, who turned out the lights? Thanks to magical 
interference (or maybe something less sinister, if this match 
is taking place at a night or underground), the pitch is 
drowned in darkness. 
Until the start of the triggering team’s next turn, the MA of each 
player on the pitch if halved (rounding up), and all attempts to 
pass or catch the ball have an additional -2 modifier.
Tumbling Timber (21)
A group of revelers in the stands are taking their revels a bit 
too far, when their celebratory jumping suddenly causes a 
section of the stands to collapse onto the pitch! 
The triggering team’s coach rolls a D6. On a 1-3 the wide zone on 
the triggering team’s left flank is affected; on a 4-6 the wide zone 
on their right flank is affected Wide Zone; if it is failed, the player 
remains standing, but if it is passed the player is Knocked Down.
Weather Mage (22)
A wizard, powerful in the realm of meteorology, is hiding 
somewhere in the crowd. They’ve behaved themselves for 
now, but they can’t resist helping one of the teams out any 
longer! 
Each coach rolls a D3 and adds their FAME, re-rolling ties. The 
coach who rolls the highest can change the current result on the 
weather table to the result immediately above it or below it. They 
could also choose to jump from a 2 result (Sweltering Heat) to a 
12 result (Blizzard) and vice versa.
Whiteout (23)
The stadium is suddenly blanketed by a thick screen of mist. 
Perhaps this is a freak meteorological occurrence, or maybe 
magical trickery is involved – or maybe one of the 
contraptions in the local Engineers’ Guild has backfired 
again… 
Any player wishing to move more than five squares during an 
action must make a Go For It roll for each additional square. For 
example, a player with MA 7 could move up to five spaces 
normally, then up to four spaces by Going For It (two remaining 
squares of their MA, plus the two Go For It attempts that are 
normally allowed). In addition, Long Passes and Long Bombs 
may not be attempted, and the Hail Mary Pass skill may not be 
used. Whiteout lasts until the triggering player’s next turn.
Wish Daemon (24)
A strange, floating creature appears in the losing team’s 
dugout, offering a single wish to the beleaguered coach. The 
team with the lowest score is granted a wish. 
If the teams’ scores are drawn, the team with the lowest team 
value is granted a wish instead. If the scores are drawn and both 
teams have the same team value, pick a random team to be 
granted a wish. The team that has been granted a wish places a 
marker (such as a spare Blood Bowl coin) on the sideline area of 
their Dugout. Between now and the end of the game, any one time 
they make a dice roll, they can discard the marker to turn one of 
the dice in the roll to show a result of their choice.
Orc and Savage Orc Match Events:
Fightin Juice (1)
Outside the stadium, a wiry goblin shaman is selling all 
manner of strange brews from a number of bubbling 
cauldrons. It seems the orc's team's coach splashed out on 
potions before the game, and now they’re kicking in!
This turn, the triggering team can make multiple Blitz actions. 
However, only the first one is free! Immediately after each 
additional Blitz action, roll a D6 if the player who took the action is 
still standing. On a roll of 1, they are Knocked Down as the 
potion's side-effects kick in, and the team suffers a Turnover. The 
second time this roll is made, the player is Knocked Down on a 1 
or 2; the third time, they are Knocked Down on a 1, 2 or 3, and so 
on. If the team is made enough to attempt a sixth additional Blitz, 
the player making the action will be Knocked Down automatically!
Run for the Drops! (2)
Orc culture isn't known for its cuisine. Boiled Squig, Roasted 
Gobbo Legs, Fungus Surprise... it's little wonder that orc food 
stands don't make a lot of profit from visiting teams. 
However, once in a while, a brave player, wanting to show off 
to their team-mates , will gobble down an unsavory snack in 
the run-up to the game. This is never a good idea.
Pick a random player on the non-triggering team. That player is 
immediately moved to the Reserves box of their dugout. Lay them 
down to show that they are in rather a lot of discomfort, and roll a 
D6 at the start of the next drive. On a 1, 2 or 3 the player cannot 
be set up on this drive (but can be set up as normal from the next 
drive onward). On a 4,5 or 6 they have regained their composure 
and can be set up as normal.

Wild Squig (3)
If there was ever a good justification for the 'no pets on the 
sidelines' rule, this is it! A bunch of orc fans have turned up 
with a biter squig in tow, and wouldn't you know it, the 
bouncing menace has slipped its leash…
Each coach rolls a D6, and whoever scores the highest sets up a 
miniature or marker to represent the wild squig (a spare Blood 
Bowl coin will do, but an actual squig miniature is better!) in any 
unoccupied square that is adjacent to the sidelines. At the end of 
each player's turn, the triggering coach rolls for scatter, then 
moves the squig that many squares in that direction. (The first 
time the squig moves, use the Throw-In template rather than the 
Scatter template, to ensure the that the squig moves away from 
the sidelines.) If the squig would move into an occupied square, it 
throws a block against the player in that square, ignoring Foul 
Appearance. (If the square is Prone or Stunned, no block is made 
- they are pushed back and an armour roll is made to see if they 
are injured instead.) The direction of any push-backs is decided 
by the player's opposing coach. The squig is assumed to have ST 
4, AV 8 and the Block skill. If an armour roll against it succeeds, 
the drive ends or the squig moves off the pitch, it is removed from 
play. If the squig moves into a square containing the ball, the ball 
will bounce.
WURRR... ZAP! (4)
An orc shaman is getting excitable in the stands, feeding off 
the fever-pitch excitement of the fans around him and the 
violence that's happening on the pitch. Suddenly, a wave of 
green energy rockets down from the stands, engulfing the 
orc team in pure Waaagh! Magic.
The triggering coach rolls a D6 for each player on their team. On 
a result of 1, that player in Placed Prone. If they were carrying the 
ball it will bounce, but this does not cause a turnover. On a result 
of 2,3 or 4 there is no effect. On a result of 5 or 6, the player is 
filled with the power of Gork and Mork and gains the Frenzy and 
Mighty Blow skills until the end of the turn.
Human and Human Nobility Match Events:
Deafening Contraption (1)
There's an awful lot of noise coming from one end of the 
stands, where a local engineer is attempting to show off his 
new 
invention: 
Von 
Grubelmann's 
Cacophonous 
Support-Provider. Although the device is supposed to play a 
fanfare each time a touchdown is scored, it seems to be 
having a rather enthusiastic malfunction…
While the device is malfunctioning, it affects all players in the 
triggering team's half of the pitch. Any Agility tests made by 
affected players have an additional -1 modifier, due to they utter 
racket coming from the stands. At the end of each of the 
triggering team's turns, roll a D6. On a 4 or more, the device 
stops malfunctioning. On a 6, it actually starts working as 
intended, and the triggering team's FAME is +2 for the rest of the 
match, regardless of what it was previously.
Griffon's Gift (2)
Ever a symbol of good fortune among the realms of men, 
Griffons are legendary creatures, fantastical amalgams of 
beast 
bird. 
Tales 
abound 
of 
their 
grace 
true-heartedness... but there's a detail that tends to be 
omitted. Unfortunately, as the keepers of the Imperial Zoo will 
gladly attest, there's nothing quite as shockingly unpleasant 
as a creature with the healthy digestive system of a big cat 
and the ability to soar through the sky…
The triggering team's coach places a marker - a spare Blood Bowl 
coin is ideal, but it's a given that certain coaches will want to 
create something bespoke - in the center of their Line of 
Scrimmage, then rolls for scatter and moves the marker D8 
squares in that direction. The marker stays where it is for the rest 
of the match, representing a large pile of 'griffon guano'. If a player 
is in the square, they are immediately Pushed in a random 
direction (determined using the scatter template) and Knocked 
Down. For the rest of the match, the square containing the marker 
cannot be entered by players from either team, and if the ball 
bounces into or lands on that square it will immediately bounce 
again. In addition, each square around the marker is treated by 
players from both teams as being within an enemy zone - players 
must make Dodge rolls whenever they move out of these squares, 
they confer a penalty to Agility tests, and so forth.
Priestly Uprising (3)
There is a suddenly clamouring from the sidelines, and to the 
amazement of the players, a procession of Warrior Priests 
stride up to the pitch! It seems that they are unhappy with 
Nuffle's overshadowing of their own god in recent years, and 
have decided to stage a protest. After a brief altercation with 
the officials and a few enthusiastic fans, they agree to stick to 
the sidelines, and soon the pitch is ringed by angry, bald, 
hammer-wielding zealots.
For the rest of the match, or until the protest ends as described 
below, each of the squares that is adjacent to the sidelines, and 
each square in the end zone, is threatened by a Warrior Priest,. If 
a player is in a threatened square when they are chosen to take 
an action, they are attacked - the opposing coach makes a Block 
against them, as though it was being made by a player with a ST 
of 4, ignoring any assists. If the player is Knocked Down, the team 
suffers a Turnover as normal - otherwise, they can take their 
action as normal.
Unruly Apprentices (4)
A group of young wizards in the stands have had maybe one 
too many ales, and they seem keen to show off their powers 
to the rest of the crowd. Quicker than you can say "that's not 
a good idea", they're lobbing magical projectiles towards the 
The triggering team's coach places a marker (a spare Blood Bowl 
coin is ideal) in any square that is touching the sidelines and in 
their own half. Then, they roll a D8. If the result is odd, they move 
the marker that many spaces towards their own end zone; if it is 
even, they move the marker that many spaces towards the 
opponent's end zone. The apprentices will fling D6 projectiles onto 
the pitch. For each one, place the throw in template so that it is 
centered on the marker. The projectile is moved in the same way 
as a throw-in, but travels 2D6 squares rather than D6, and if it 
moves off the pitch it is not thrown back in! Once the projectile 
stops moving, each player either in its square or adjacent to it is 
Knocked Down on a D6 roll of 4+. Once the event has been 
resolved, remove the marker.

Dwarf and Slayer Hold Match Events:
Grudge-Chant (1)
Uh oh, the fans are getting angry! A grudge-chant is 
traditionally only started as the result of a heinous foul or 
bad call which goes against the dwarf team, but in recent 
years they’re becoming all too common…
The triggering team’s coach nominates a player on the opposing 
team. This player must be on the pitch and must fulfil one of the 
following criteria:
They have scored a Touchdown this match.
They have made a foul action this match 
(regardless of the outcome)
They have caused a player on the triggering team to be 
Knocked Out or sent to the Dead and Injured box, either 
as the result of a Block, a Skill, or being pushed into the 
crowd.
If no such player exists on the opposing team, any player can be 
nominated (a suitable offence should also be invented - perhaps 
they used insulting language, they refused to accept a pre-match 
pint of Bugman’s Ale, or one of their distant ancestors once 
wronged a dwarf). Until the end of the drive, subtract 1 from the 
result of the D6 every time that player attempts to pass, intercept, 
catch or dodge.
Gyrocopter Incoming (2)
Since 
before 
match 
began, 
a 
brightly-coloured 
gyrocopter has been buzzing around the stadium, trailing an 
advertising banner and blasting jaunty music from a series 
of speaker-horns. To say it was annoying would be an 
understatement, so the sudden volley of a skyward gunfire 
from somewhere in the crowd is no surprise…
The triggering team’s coach places a marker - a spare Blood 
Bowl coin is ideal, but it’s a given that certain coaches will want to 
create something bespoke - in the central square of their Line of 
Scrimmage, then rolls for scatter and moves the marker D8 
squares in that direction, stopping if it would move off the pitch. 
This is the gyrocopter’s point of impact. Next, it skids. Place the 
throw-in template over the gyrocopter and roll a D8 to see which 
direction to point in:
1-2: towards triggering team’s endzone
3-4: towards the left side line of the triggering team’s endzone
5-6: towards the right sideline of the triggering team’s endzone
7-8: towards the other team’s endzone
Move the gyrocopter D6 squares in that direction. If a player is in 
a square that the gyrocopter lands in or moves through, make an 
Armour Roll for them, adding 1 to the result. The gyrocopter stays 
on the pitch in the last square it moved into (unless it moved off 
the pitch; if there is a player in that square, they are Pushed in a 
random direction, determined with a scatter roll. That square 
becomes impassable for the rest of the match, players cannot 
move into it or be pushed into it, and if the ball lands in or moves 
into that square it will immediately bounce. At the end of the drive, 
the gyrocopter is removed.
Stonebread Vendors (3)
A rousing chorus of voices springs up around the stands, 
heralding the arrival of a troupe of dwarf bakers. Barrows are 
dragged into place by red-faced beardlings and before long, 
enticing loaves of stonebread are being sold to crowd and 
players alike.
For the rest of this drive, any dwarf player (including Chaos Dwarf 
players, but not including Star Players, Bull Centaurs, Hobgoblins 
or Minotaurs) that ends an action standing adjacent to the 
sidelines can buy a small loaf of stonebread. Roll a block dice; on 
a Defender Down or Both Down result, the player is immediately 
Knocked Down as their teeth prove unworthy to the task and are 
shattered (this causes a turnover as normal). On any other result, 
the player is invigorated, and they gain the Juggernaut and Stand 
Firm skills for the rest of the drive.
Tunneling Instincts (4)
Dwarfs have an interesting take on the idea of ‘cheating’. 
Technically they agree that it’s bad, but in practice that only 
tends to count when it’s the other team doing it. After all, it 
was a Dwarf who brought Nuffle’s sport to the world!As such, 
it’s not unheard of for a former miner to put his skills to use 
and prepare a secret tunnel from the Dugout onto the pitch…
The triggering team can immediately move one player from the 
Reserves box of their dugout to either one of the trapdoors on the 
pitch. If this means there are now more than eleven of that team’s 
player on the pitch, roll a D6. On a 1 the referee spots what’s 
going on and why the newly-arrived player is immediately sent off 
as though they had been caught fouling - this causes a Turnover..
Skaven and Pestilent Vermin Match Events:
Assassin! (1)
What’s that, darting from shadow to shadow? A lithe, 
long-tailed figure in a dark cloak, blades glinting in each of its 
clawed hands. Oh dear… either the Skaven coach has called 
in a favour, or one of the players on the Skaven team has let 
their warpstone debts get out of hand…
Each coach rolls a D6, re-rolling ties. The coach who rolls lowest 
picks a random player on their team to be the assassin’s target, 
excluding players that are not on the pitch. For the rest of the 
drive, after that player completes an action, their coach rolls a D6. 
if the result is a 1, or is less than the number of squares the player 
moved during their action, the player outruns the assassin. 
Otherwise, they are caught; make an immediately Injury roll for the 
player. (Note that this means that if they do not move as part of 
their action, for example, if they make a Block action - they are 
unlikely to get away…) The assassin leaves the stadium once 
they catch their target, or are chased away by the stadium security 
at the end of the drive.
Pestilence And Decay (2)
Oh dear. Every Skaven team has them amongst their fans - 
plague monks, the filthy, scrofulous disciples of decay. Most 
stadiums turn them away at the doors, but it looks like this lot 
made it in - and they’re keen to spread the good word...
Description missing - 

Rat Swarm (3)
It starts with a lone scream in the stands, followed by 
another, and soon the entire crowd is in uproar as thousands 
of small, furry bodies swarm down towards the pitch. In 
seconds, the field is a sea of chittering teeth and pointed 
claws. How unpleasant!
For the rest of this drive, the pitch is covered in a seething swarm 
of rats. At the end of each player’s turn, roll a D6 for each of their 
players that is Prone or Stunned. On a 1, make an Injury roll for 
that player as they are taken for a tasty snack by the ravenous 
vermin. In addition, if the ball is not being at the end of either 
team’s turn, it bounces once as it is pushed around by the swarm. 
At the end of the drive, professionals are called in, the rat swarm 
is dealt with, and the local Halfling pie stands slashes its prices 
‘due to increased supply’, but it’s best not to think too carefully 
about that.
Warpstone Meteor (4)
With a crackling whoosh, a lump of glowing, green rock 
shoots down from the heavens and embeds itself in the 
pitch. Strange, noxious gases seep from the crater, and 
when a minor official approaches to see what it is, they run 
screaming a few moments later, their arms transformed into 
flailing tentacles. Probably best to avoid it.
The triggering team's coach places a marker such as a spare 
Blood Bowl coin in the central square of their Line of Scrimmage, 
then rolls for scatter and moves the marker D8 squares in that 
direction. The marker stays where it is for the rest of the match, 
representing the warpstone meteor. If a player is in the square, 
they are immediately Pushed in a random direction (determined 
using the scatter template) and Knocked Down. For the rest of the 
match, the square containing the marker cannot be entered by 
players from either team, and if the ball bounces into or lands on 
that square it will immediately bounce again. In addition, each of 
the squares adjacent to the marker is saturated in foul magic. If a 
player starts their action in one of those squares, roll a D6. On a 
1-3 they are Placed Prone as their mind writhes with madness. 
On a 6, the player's coach can choose any Mutation skill - the 
player gains that skill until the end of their action!

VARIANT TWO - THE CARD DRAFT
This variant lets coaches pick their Special Play cards from an 
ever-dwindling shared supply. An interesting twist is that, aside 
from the first card you keep, the other coach will know what tricks 
you’ve got up your sleeve! As both players have this advantage, it 
evens out and adds another factor to think about when planning 
your game strategy.
At the start of the match (before the kick-off in a one-off game or 
the coaches each roll a D6. The coach who rolls the highest 
(re-roll ties) picks one of the available Special Play decks, draws 
two cards from it face-down and gives one to their opponent 
(without looking at it). The other coach then does the same, they 
can choose the same Special Play deck or a different Special Play 
deck. The cards a coach draws in this way will form a starting 
deck. Repeat this until each coach has a number of cards in their 
starting deck determined as follows:
In a one-off match, the number of cards in each starting deck is 
randomly determined. Roll a D6, then look up the result on the 
table below:
In League play, the number of cards in each starting deck is 
determined by the highest Team Value out of the two teams:
Once each coach has compiled their starting deck, they can look 
through them. Each coach chooses one card to keep and places it 
face-down in front of them, then gives the remainder of their 
starting deck to the other coach. Repeat this until each coach has 
only one card left - this card is discarded back to its deck.
The cards that a coach has kept are their Special Play cards for 
the match.
VARIANT ONE - THE POINTS SYSTEM
This system is the closest to the standard rules for choosing 
Special Play cards, but alters the value of the various decks 
based on their relative power levels. For example, the 
Miscellaneous Mayhem deck costs more because it contains 
cards that are likely to have a more drastic (and entertaining!) 
effect on the match.
At the start of the match (before the kick-off in a one-off game, or 
each team gains a number of points to spend on cards from the 
various Special Play card decks, depending on the type of match 
being played:
In a one-off match, each coach starts with the same number of 
points. One coach rolls a D6, then look up the result on the table 
below:
In a League Match, each coach starts with the same number of 
points. Look up the highest Team Value out of the two teams on 
the table below to determine this:
The team with the highest Team Value spends their points first, 
then the other team. If both teams have the same Team Valau, 
each coach rolls a D6 and whoever scores the highest goes first. 
To spend points, a coach can buy cards from any of the available 
Special Play card decks, in any combination. Each deck has its 
own cost per card:
Once a coach has finished drawing their cards, they can return 
any of them (not including any purchased through Inducements) 
to the bottom of its deck, and draw a replacement from the top of 
the same deck.
SPECIAL PLAY CARD VARIANTS
There are three alternative set of rules for using Special Play cards in Blood Bowl, replacing the rules found in Blood Bowl and Death 
Zone Season One! All three variants work in a fairly similar way, first the coaches determine how many cards they will draw (or, in 
Varian one, how many points they have to spend on drawing cards), then they draw the cards that will be available to them during the 
match. As with any optional rule, it’s down to the players whether to use these rules or the ones found in the Blood Bowl rulebook and 
Death Zone Season One! In a one-off game (including Exhibition Matches) both coaches should agree on a set of rules - if you can’t 
agree, don’t use any of the variants and stick to what’s in the books. In League or Tournament play, it is down to the League 
Commissioner or Tournament Organiser to decide what should be used - it’s recommended that one variant is chosen and used for the 
entire League or Tournament.
Points per coach
Points per coach
Points per card
Cards in each starting deck
Cards in each starting deck

OPTIONAL RULE - VARIANT SPECIAL PLAY INDUCEMENT
Using this optional rule changes the value of each deck of Special 
Play cards, better reflecting their individual power levels. Replace 
the Special Play inducements with the following:
0-5 Special Plays - Various prices
Each Special Play allows you to immediately draw a card from a 
deck of your choice. The cost depends on the deck chosen:
Note that this does not affect the Special Play cards that you team 
would normally receive - cards purchased through Inducements 
are treated separately until the match begins.
VARIANT FOUR - ROUND ROBIN
The purpose of this version is to increase variety and avoid a 
power rush where both players only draw from the most powerful 
deck(s).
Use either the rules in the rulebook or Death Zone Season 1! but 
with the following limitation:
Each player can only draw one card more from a single deck than 
they already have from any other deck.
VARIANT THREE - ONE DECK ONLY
This variant keeps things simple, drawing all cards from a single 
deck.
At the start of the match (before the kick-off in a one-off game, or 
the coaches each roll a D6. The coach who rolls the highest 
(re-roll ties) picks one of the available Special Play card decks. 
This is the deck that will be used for this match; the other decks 
are not used. The number of cards each coach will draw is then 
determined as follows:
In a one-off match, each coach starts with the same number of 
cards. One coach rolls a D6 then look up the result on the table 
below:
In a League Match, each coach starts with the same number of 
cards. Look up the highest Team Value out of the two teams on 
the table below to determine this:
The team with the highest Team Value chooses their cards first, 
drawing a number of cards, as determined above, from the top of 
the deck, then the other team does the same. If both teams have 
the same Team Value, each coach rolls a D6, and whoever 
scores the highest goes first.
Once a coach has drawn all of their cards, they can choose one 
card to discard, returning it to the bottom of the deck and drawing 
a replacement from the top of the deck.
Cards per coach
Cards per coach
CARDS
Here are Special Play cards as released by GW in addition to limited and special event cards. Some other cards found throughout 
internet is also added.
In addition there are cards for Inducements which include experimental inducements from the app and the Wizard from LRB6.
There are also cards for Stadiums.

Special Play Cards - Random Events (12)
ROWDY FANS (5)
Your fans have shown up today with 
an extra evil glint in their eyes. They 
want a lot of blood and are in the 
mood to help spill it.
For this match, any block or foul made 
by or against an opposing player 
adjacent to the side-lines is treated as 
having one extra assist from your 
team. In addition, no opposing player 
adjacent to the sidelines can assist a 
block or foul.
JOHNNY WATERBOY (4)
 A local minor wizard has set up in 
your team’s dugout, offering 
refreshing swigs from an enchanted 
water butt. One sip and you’re good 
to go!
For the duration of this game, add +1 
to any dice rolls you make at the start 
of a drive to see if your players recover 
from being KO’d.
BALL CLONE (6)
The random influence of Tzeentch 
possesses the ball, causing no end of 
confusion and insanity.
Play at the start of any of your opponent’s 
Action. You can only play this if the ball is 
on the ground.
A second ball materializes in the ball’s 
square, then bounces. When a player 
crosses into the End Zone with one of the 
balls, roll a D6. On a 1-3, the ball vanishes 
and a touchdown is not scored. Remove the 
second ball when the drive ends. Players 
may not pick-up, catch or intercept a ball if 
they are already carrying one. If a ball 
bounces into the square with the other ball, 
it will bounce again.
HECKLER (2)
An overeager fan has taken to 
heckling and distracting one 
particular opponent.
Choose an opposing player. That 
player cannot use any skills other than 
those that must be used (Frenzy, 
Loner, etc) until the start of your next 
FRIENDLY FANS (1)
The crowd loves your team, and 
wouldn’t ever consider ripping one 
of your players apart… well, not this 
game anyway.
If a player on your team is pushed into 
the crowd in this game, do not make 
an Injury roll. Instead, put them straight 
into your Reserves box.
EVERYONE’S AN EXPERT… (3)
When your team visits a local tavern 
the night before the game, several 
eager fans promise to come along 
and offer advice from the sidelines. 
You tell them they’re welcome to, as 
long as they cheer extra loud!
For this game, you automatically win 
all Cheering Fans and Brilliant 
Coaching rolls on the Kick-off table. 
You also get an additional +1 to your 
FAME for any Throw a Rock and Pitch 
Invasion rolls on the Kick-off table.
INCOMING! (8)
The crowd received souvenir balls 
today and has decided to use them 
as ammunition instead of 
keepsakes.
For this turn, your opponent must 
make a Dodge roll each time one of 
their players leaves a square within 
two squares of either sideline or End 
SPRINKLER MALFUNCTION (7)
Somebody triggered the sprinkler 
system, by accident of course! The 
ball becomes difficult to handle and 
the mist makes it difficult to see 
until the water is shut off.
All attempts to pass, catch, or pick up 
the ball have an additional -1 modifier 
for this drive.
HOMETOWN FANS (9)
Your team’s fans start the match 
very willing to help their favourite 
team by throwing the ball to the 
perfect place for you.
immediately before the first kick-of.
You may choose the direction the ball 
is thrown in on the Throw-in template 
every time it goes out of bounds during 
the first half. During the second half, all 
throw-ins are performed as normal.

Special Play Cards - Miscellaneous Mayhem (18)
MAGIC SPONGE (2)
The local wizards guild is a fan of 
your team and has provided a magic 
sponge that offers possible healing 
magic to one lucky player.
Roll a D6. On a 1, the sponge’s magic 
fails. On a 2 or more, you may move 
one player in the Dead and Injured box 
to the Reserves box.
IRON MAN (1)
One player from your team has 
dedicated the match to their 
recently departed mother and is 
determined to play for the whole 
game, no matter what the cost.
Pick a player on your team. For the 
remained of the game, any rolls on the 
Injury table against that player are 
treated as Stunned results.
BAD HABITS (3)
The opposing players have picked 
up some really bad habits and it is 
starting to ruin their ability to work 
together as a team.
Roll a D3. Your opponent loses that 
many team re-rolls for the first half of 
this game.
BLITZMANIA MANIA! (11)
“Sorry if you’re having trouble 
hearing the announcers, folks - it’s 
kinda loud here!”
Play at the start of a drive, before the 
kick-off.
Each coach rolls a D6 and adds their 
team’s FAME and the number of 
cheerleaders on its roster. If you roll 
higher than your opponent, gain 
another team re-roll. Otherwise, keep 
this Special Play card - you can play it 
again at the start of another drive.
BADYEAR GIT (10)
A Goblin Doom Diver who was too 
cheap to pay for admission is hit by 
the kick-off while flying over the 
stadium.
Play at any kick-off after all players 
have been set up and the ball has 
been placed, but before the roll to 
scatter is made.
The ball scatters 2D6 squares instead 
of D6.
THEY THINK IT’S ALL… OGRE?! 
(12)
“Oh, throw out the rulebook. This is 
getting ridiculous!”
Set up an Ogre (see the Human team list) in 
any square that is adjacent to the sidelines 
and not in any enemy tackle zone - the 
Ogre now plays as part of your team. At the 
end of each turn that the Ogre is on the 
pitch, roll a D6. On a 1, he switches sides 
and is now controlled by your opponent! On 
a 2 or 3, he is forcibly removed from play. 
Roll again at the end of each of the Ogre’s 
team’s turns.
RAKARTH’S CURSE (5)
Your team has bribed an old witch 
to curse one of the opposing 
players.
Pick an opposing player. For the 
remained of this game, your opponent 
cannot re-roll any dice rolls for that 
player, whether through team re-rolls 
or skill re-rolls.
GET’EM LADS! (4)
Your team is inspired to make a 
major push to break through the 
opposing team after one of their 
own go down.
Action. You can only play this if one of 
your players suffered an injury in your 
opponent’s previous turn.
For this turn, each of your players 
gains +1 ST.
BLACKMAIL (6)
You have the goods on one of the 
opposing players, and have chosen 
now to call in your favour.
Pick an opposing player who is not 
carrying the ball. For this turn only, you 
may treat that player as a member of 
your team. Note that the referee 
recognizes the player as an opponent, 
so you may not score a touchdown for 
your team with this player and the 
player cannot be ejected for fouling 
their own team.

KID GLOVES (10)
One player from the opposing team 
is the subject of a NAF enquiry. The 
player decides to go easy this game 
to reduce the chances of unwanted 
further scrutiny.
Pick an opposing player. For the 
remained of the game, that player 
cannot Foul, and cannot give assists to 
blocks or fouls.
PAMPERED PLAYERS (11)
“You have to give it to Blitzmania, 
it’s injected a whole heap of gold 
into the sport. I’ve never seen 
players that are so well looked 
after!”
For the duration of the game, your 
players will recover from being 
Knocked Out on a roll of 2 or more. 
However, if you roll a 1, roll again. On 
a 1, 2 or 3, the player kicks up a fuss 
and refuses to play for the rest of the 
match!
HEEL TURN (12) - Blitzmania
“Blitzmania’s seeing more and more 
dirty play. I don’t wanna sound 
old-fashioned, but you wouldn’t see 
this in the big leagues…”
Play this card in one of the following 
ways:
1) Play after making an Armour roll for an 
enemy player to add 2 to the result of the 
2) Play at the start of any of your turns to 
move a player in your Reserves box to any 
square in your End Zone that is not in an 
enemy tackle zone.
3) Play when your opponent declares they 
will use a team re-roll to prevent them from 
using it. The re-roll is still spent.
KNUCLEDUSTERS (8)
A player from your team slips a pair 
of magical one-shot knuckledusters 
to make sure that an especially 
hated opponent goes down this 
Pick a player on your team. For this 
turn, you can convert any and all Block 
dice you roll for that player to 
‘Defender Down’ results.
EGO TRIP (7)
One player from the opposing team 
has developed a real swelled head 
from recent successes and is 
demanding super star treatment.
Choose one opposing player. For the 
remainder of this game, that player 
must take their Action first every turn or 
not take an Action at all.
MINE (9)
Your team trapped the pitch with a 
disguised mine and the opposing 
team has just set it off.
An opposing player of your choice has 
stepped on a mine. Roll a D6 for them, and 
for each standing player (from either team) 
that is adjacent to them. If a dice scores 4 
or more, the player you are rolling for is 
Knocked Down. Make an Armour roll for 
each player who is Knocked Down, adding 
+1 to the result of any Injury rolls. If one of 
your players is Knocked Down, you do not 
suffer a turnover unless they were carrying 
THE EARLY BIRD (14)
“Talk about keen! They say this 
player trains every morning from 
sunrise, and is always first in line 
for the latest kit. What a hero!”
Play immediately before the first 
kick-off.
Pick a player on your team - that player 
gains the Pro skill for the first half of this 
match. At the end of the first half, roll a D6 if 
the player is still on the pitch or in Reserve. 
On a result of 1, 2 or 3, the player is so 
exhausted from all the extra training that 
they are Knocked Out! They cannot recover 
in time for the next drive, but you can roll for 
all subsequent drives normally.
IT’S ALL TO PLAY FOR (13)
“The referee is invoking the 
newly-drafted last minute equaliser 
rule. The Blitzmania commission is 
taking liberties again, I guess…”
Play at the start of your fifth, sixth, 
seventh or eighth turn in the second 
half, before any of your players takes 
an Action.
If you score is lower than your 
opponent’s, your next touchdown will 
score enough points to equalise the 
scores.
GO FULL BEARD (15)
“By the twice-blessed tankard of 
Josef Bugman, they just cracked 
open a cask of Full Beard! It’s about 
to get messy…”
Put this card face-up on the sideline area of 
your Dugout to show that your team has 
taken a drink of Full Beard XXXX. At the 
start of any of your turns, you can discard 
the card. For the rest of that turn, all players 
on your team have the Mighty Blow and 
Thick Skull skills. At the end of the turn, D6 
of your players on the pitch (chosen 
randomly) feel the need for a lie down, and 
are Placed Prone. If you have not used the 
card by the end of the drive, it is discarded.
Warhammer Open Promo
Web Exclusive

TRAP DOOR MAN (17)
“KNOCK KNOCK WHO’s THERE?”
Play this one time card after your turn 
has ended.
Roll a D6. On a roll of 1 to 4 a player in your 
reserve box climbs through the trap door on 
your side of the pitch. On a roll of 5 or 6 a 
player from your reserves climbs through 
the trap door on your opponent’s side of the 
pitch. If for some reason the pitch doesn’t 
have trap doors, use the sweet spot. If for 
some reason the trap door or the sweet 
spot is covered, then the player can not 
sneak onto the pitch. This card allows you 
to exceed 11 players on the pitch for the 
remaining turns of this drive.
GASSY ERUPTION (16)
“WE CAN ASSURE YOU THAT FULL 
BEARD ALE DOES NOT NORMALLY 
HAVE THAT EFFECT!”
BET THE HOUSE (18)
“SO WHAT ARE YOU WILLING TO 
BET TO GET THAT ALL IMPORTANT 
EDGE THEN COACH?”
Play this card prior to the start of each 
half before rolling on the kick off table.
The coach with this card has the option to 
gamble a Team re-roll from their overall 
total and rolls a D6. On a roll of 1 to 3, the 
coach has lost and the gambled re-roll is 
lost for the rest of this half. On a roll of 4 or 
5, the coach gets their re-roll back with a 
bonux re-roll as well. If they roll a 6 then the 
coach gains back the gambled re-roll and 
also 2 additional re-rolls for this half.
Warhammer World Exclusive
NUFFLES BLESSINGS (19)
“I’VE SEEN SOME CRAZY THINGS 
ON THE PITCH BUT A TROLL WHO 
IS NOT HUNGRY…!?!?”
Play immediately before the first Kick 
Off.
The card lasts the entire game on a single 
player and removes the negative effects of 
the extra-ordinary skills of Bonehead, Wild 
Animal, Really Stupid, Blood Lust, Always 
Hungry, Decay and Take Root. In addition, 
the blessed player may not use any re-rolls 
for the entire game. I.e. an Ogre no longer 
suffers from Bonehead but when making a 
Block roll it cannot attempt to use a 
team-reroll or their Pro or Leader skill if they 
should have these skills.
Pick a player on your team. That player snuck 
in a quick tankard of the sabotaged Full Beard 
before the kick-off, and is paying the (rather 
explosive) price! Each player adjacent to 
them, friend or foe, is immediately pushed 
back as though the player had made a block 
against them and got a Pushback result. You 
can choose the order in which they are 
pushed back, and the squares they are 
pushed back to. The player cannot follow up, 
and players that are pushed back cannot use 
Sidestep or Stand Firm.

SKROT’S STICKY SLOP (2)
“One of the cheatingest players in 
the Orcland Raiders (and that’s 
saying something), ‘Stikka’ Skrot 
used to smear this gloopy paste on 
his hands before every match.”
Pick a player from your team to smear 
their hands with the slop. For the rest 
of the game, this player has the Catch 
and Sure Hands skills, but cannot 
make Pass or Hand-off Actions.
GRUK THE BEAR’S GAUNTLETS (1)
“A lot of players want to wear these, 
simply so they can say they’ve 
killed someone with their ‘bear’ 
hands.”
the gauntlets. For the rest of the drive, 
that player has +1 ST. After the drive 
ends, the player is so drained that they 
have -1 ST for the rest of the game.
AGRABLAG’S BALL OF PAIN (3)
“Agrablag the Ruinous fashioned 
this deadly ball for the Chaos 
All-Stars, so they could dissuade 
their opponents from trying to 
score.”
Play at the start of a drive in which you 
are kicking, before the kick-off.
Until the end of this drive, if a player 
attempts to pick up or catch the ball 
(not including interceptions) and fails, 
they are treated as being attacked with 
the Stab skill.
VON WILKING’S BOOTS (6)
“Johann Von Wilkins was long held 
as one of the strongest kickers 
around, until a troll ate his legs. 
That’s what you call an occupational 
hazard!”
the boots. For the rest of the game, 
that player has the Kick skill, with the 
additional effect that you can re-roll the 
D8 when the ball scatters on kick-off, 
so long as this player is the one 
kicking.
BOB’S BIFFIN’ HELMET (4)
“The refs gave up trying to make 
Bob Bifford wear a helmet once he’d 
pointed out that they never survived 
his first headbutt. I’m not sure 
whether he was talking about the 
headgear or the match officials…”
the helmet. The first time that player 
makes a Block or Blitz Action, they 
gain +1 ST and the Mighty Blow skill 
for the duration of that Action.
ZUG’S JERSEY, 2492 (7)
“Zug wore this for a full season 
without washing it. Maybe some of 
his ruggedness rubbed off!”
jersey. For the rest of the game, 
Armour rolls made against that player 
cannot be modified in any way (i.e. 
Claw, Mighty Blow, foul assists, and so 
on) - only count the exact total of the 
two dice rolled and the player’s actual 
AV, as shown on the roster.
Special Play Cards - Magical Memorabilia (10)
LUTHOR’S DAZZLING WRISTGUARDS (8)
“They say that Count Luthor’s Wardrobe 
was almost as beguiling as he was… and 
he even charmed himself a few times!”
Play at the start of any drive, while setting up 
your team.
Pick a player from your team to wear the 
wristguards. For the rest of the game, they 
have the Bonehead, Hypnotic Gaze and 
Sidestep skills.
ZUG’S JERSEY, 2492 (7)
“Zug wore this for a full season without 
washing it. Maybe some of his 
ruggedness rubbed off!”
jersey. For the rest of the game, Armour 
rolls made against that player cannot be 
modified in any way (i.e. Claw, Mighty Blow, 
foul assists, and so on) - only count the 
exact total of the two dice rolled and the 
player’s actual AV, as shown on the roster.
SPRANLEY’S CUP (9)
“Some players insist on wearing extra 
padding around their most delicate 
areas. Burbo Spranley went even further, 
commissioning this enchanted wonder 
after one too many run-ins with a 
goblin’s hobnail boots.”
enchanted cup. For the rest of the game, 
fouls cannot be made against the player, 
and Injury rolls made against them cannot 
be modified or re-rolled in any way (e.g., 
Niggling Injuries, Dirty Player, Mighty Blow, 
etc).

CATCHER’S INSTINCTS (1)
“It’s like he knew where the ball was 
going before it even went there!”
Play during any kick-off where you are 
receiving, after the ball has scattered 
and ended in an unoccupied square in 
your half.
Pick one of your players on the pitch 
that is not on the line of scrimmage, 
and move them to the same square as 
the ball. Roll to see if they catch the 
ball, with an additional +1 modifier.
HIGHTOWER’S LUCKY SOCK (10)
“Superstitious Elven Catcher Soaren 
Hightower was so convinced of this 
sock’s good fortune that he actually 
wore it two games in a row!”
Pick a player from your team to wear the 
lucky sock. The first time a successful 
Armour roll is made against that player, they 
are placed Prone without an Injury roll.
MIGHTY LEAP (2)
“I haven’t seen a jump like that 
since before Spring-heeled Skrog 
had the accident!”
Pick a player on your team that has ST 
4 or less. Until the end of your turn, 
that player has the Leap skill. When 
they use it, add 1 to the D6 roll.
PERFECT THROW (4)
“Magic, skill or plain old dumb luck? 
You decide!”
Play when one or your players throws 
the ball, before making the Throw roll.
Do not apply any modifiers to the dice 
roll based on the distance between the 
thrower and the target.
UP LIKE A SHOT (3)
“He barely even hit the ground, and 
he’s already up!”
Pick a player on your team that is 
Prone, and stand them up. This does 
not count as their Action for the turn.
DIE HARD (5)
“That player just took a beating, but 
that’s not gonna stop him!”
before any of your players take an 
Pick a player on your team that is 
Stunned, and turn them over so they 
are Prone.
Special Play Cards - Heroic Feats (16)
UNLIKELY INTERCEPTION (7)
“What just happened? Get a wizard 
in there, we need to see that again!”
Play when one of your players 
attempts to make an interception, 
before rolling the dice.
Regardless of the player’s Agility or 
any modifiers, the interception will 
succeed on a roll of 3+.
FANCY FOOTWORK (6)
“Hey, where’s he going?”
end of the turn, their MA is reduced by 
2 but you can add 1 to the result of any 
Dodge rolls for them.
INCH-PERFECT KICK (8)
“Come along, now. That’s just 
showing off!”
Play after all players have been set up 
for a kick-off, immediately after the ball 
is placed.
Instead of scattering the ball normally, 
scatter it three times (one square each) 
using the Throw-in template instead of 
the Scatter template. Each time, you 
can choose the template’s facing. The 
ball will still bounce three times if it is 
not caught.

IN THE ZONE (13)
“Did you see the look in that 
player’s eye? Nothing’s going to get 
in his way!”
end of your turn, that player does not 
suffer penalties to any dice rolls as a 
result of enemy tackle zones.
GO THE EXTRA MILE (12)
“He’s moving like a halfling at a 
half-time buffet!”
end of your turn, that player can Go 
For it any number of times. Each 
attempt after the second (or third, if 
they have the Sprint skill) has a 
cumulative -1 modifier to the dice roll to 
see whether they fall.
STAR ASCENDANT (14)
“That player’s going places… if they 
don’t get him first!”
Pick one of your players on the pitch. If 
they are on the pitch at the end of the 
second half, they get a bonus MVP 
award - this even counts in friendly 
games where no MVP is normally 
awarded! If you draw this card when 
playing a non-league game, discard it 
and draw another.
SPECTACULAR CATCH (10)
“Hey, where did he learn to catch 
like that all of a sudden?”
end of your turn, that player has the 
Catch and Diving Catch skills.
PUNT (9)
“I guess he didn’t want the ball after 
all.”
Play at the end of any of your turns, as 
long as one of your players is holding 
Place the ball in any square you want, 
then scatter it three times, in the same 
way as an inaccurate pass (it can only 
be caught in the final square). If it is 
not caught, it will bounce as normal.
BURST OF SPEED (11)
“Somebody’s had their wheaten 
bricks this morning!”
end of your turn, they add 1 to their MA 
and also have the Sprint skill.
GOLDEN BOY (16)
“I met him once. Nice guy!”
Pick a player on your team. While that 
player is on the pitch, you have a 
FAME of +2 - this does not affect your 
opponent’s FAME and does not affect 
any rolls made in the post-match 
sequence..
SUICIDE BLITZ (15)
“The ball’s barely left the ground, 
but that maniac’s already 
punching!”
Play after a kick-off to your opponent 
has been fully resolved (including ball 
landing), but before their turn begins.
Pick a player on your team - they 
cannot be holding the ball. They can 
immediately take a Blitz Action. For the 
duration of the Action they have the No 
Hands skill.

LAST SECOND SUBSTITUTION (1)
"Technically that's against the rules, 
but who's counting!"
Play at the start of a drive in which you 
are kicking, before the kick-off.
You can switch one of your players on 
the pitch with a player in the Reserves 
box of your Dugout.
SWITCHEROO (5)
"Looks like they're taking a page out 
of the book of sneaky plays!"
Pick one of your players who is not 
carrying the ball. They can immediately 
switch places with an adjacent player 
from your team who is also not 
carrying the ball. You do not need to 
make any Dodge rolls for either player.
PROMO TOUR (4)
"Just when you think we've seen 
enough hardback team biographies 
for one year..."
Play at the start of the game, before 
working out how many fans are 
supporting your team.
Roll 3D6 instead of 2D6 to see how 
many fans turn up to support your 
team. When working out your winnings 
at the end of the match, add an 
additional D3 to your roll.
STANDING OFFENCE (6)
"Ouch! Talk about bringing the 
pain!"
For this turn, you cannot make any 
Blitz or Pass Actions. However, each 
player in your team has the Mighty 
Blow skill until the end of the turn.
DOWN THE CHAIN (2)
"The ball is changing hands again... 
and again... and again!"
If a player that has not yet taken an 
Action successfully receives the ball 
from a hand-off, they can immediately 
take another Hand-off Action - this is 
their Action for the turn. This can 
happen multiple times.
LATERAL PASS (3)
"Uh, aren't they meant to move the 
ball up the field?"
You can make two Pass Actions this 
turn, as long as the target square for at 
least one of them is closer to your own 
End Zone than the throwing player.
KINGMAKER PLAY (8)
"Now that's teamwork - staying out 
of the way so one guy can grab the 
glory."
Pick a player on your team and make 
an Action with them. Each time you 
make a dice roll for that player this 
turn, you can choose the result instead 
of rolling (make any Armour rolls and 
Injury rolls as normal). However, you 
suffer a turnover immediately after that 
player finishes their Action.
ROUND THE CLOCK TRAINING (7)
"Talk about dedication. I hear they 
even missed the pre-match party!"
Play this card instead of using a team 
re-roll.
You can re-roll the dice, as though you 
had spent a team re-roll. Once the 
Action has been resolved, roll a D6. On 
a 1-4, this card is discarded. On a 5-6, 
you can keep it and use it again.
ENDURANCE TRAINING (9)
"It's not often you see players so 
keen to get back into the action!"
Play at the start of a drive, before 
rolling to see whether any of your 
players recover from being KO'd.
Instead of rolling for a player to recover 
from being KO'd, you can declare that 
they will automatically recover. You 
can do this for any of your KO'd 
players. Each player who recovers in 
this way is set up Stunned. After you 
have set up your team, roll a D6 for 
each Stunned player. On a 4+, they 
are turned to Prone instead.
Special Play Cards - Benefits of Training (16)

QUICK FLICK (12)
"The ball's clear, and it's away!"
If the first Pass Action your team takes 
this turn is a Quick Pass, your team 
may take a second Pass Action this 
FAKE FUMBLE (14)
"It almost looks like they have no 
idea what they're doing!"
For the whole of this turn, if any of your 
players fail a catch, pick up attempt or 
fumble a throw, their Action ends 
immediately but you do not suffer a 
turnover. A player who fails a catch 
cannot make any further Actions in the 
TEAM TALK (13)
"Looks like the head coach is giving 
his players a friendly pep talk. Are 
those thumbscrews I can see?"
You immediately regain a team re-roll. 
Then roll a D3. If the result is higher 
than the number of team re-rolls you 
have left, you gain another.
ALL-OUT BLITZ (15)
"Like I always said - the best 
defence is hitting the other team 
until they stop moving!"
Your team can make two Blitz Actions 
this turn.
OFF-COLOUR CHANT (11)
"...we'd like to apologise to our 
viewers at home. It seems the team 
have been teaching their crowd 
some choice new words!"
Roll a D6 before each kick-off that 
happens during the match, and add 
your FAME. On a 6 or more, your 
opponent loses a team re-roll.
DOGGED DEFENCE (10)
"They're on the ground but they're 
still fighting!"
opponent's turns, before any of their 
Until the start of your turn, all of your 
players who are Prone (not Stunned) 
have tackle zones as though they were 
standing. They still count as Prone in 
all other regards.
QUICK SAVE (16)
"They think it's all over... but maybe 
it's not!"
Play when you suffer a turnover.
One player on your team that has not 
already acted this turn can make an 
Action before your turn ends. If they do 
something that would cause a 
turnover, their Action ends 
immediately.

HIDDEN BLADE (3)
"How he got that past the kit check, I 
honestly do not know. Someone check 
the ref's bank balance..."
Pick a player from your team. For the rest of 
the drive, that player has the Dirty Player 
and Stab skills.
TRIPPING HAZARD (5)
"Someone call the groundskeeper, I spy 
a tripwire!"
Pick a player on the opposing team. That 
player is immediately placed Prone - no 
Armour roll is made. If they were carrying 
the ball, it bounces as normal but they do 
not suffer a turnover.
SPOT THE SNEAK (4)
"Where did he come from?"
Pick a player in your Reserves box and roll 
a D6. On a 4 or less, set them up anywhere 
in your End Zone. On a 5-6, you can either 
set them up in your End Zone or in an 
unoccupied trapdoor square in either half. 
The player can act this turn, but can only 
make a Move Action. This can take your 
team to 12 players for the remainder of this 
LOOK, A DISTRACTION! (6)
"It's always a shame to see a player 
refusing to take the game seriously..."
Pick a player from your team. For this turn, 
that player has the Disturbing Presence 
skill, and any players who start their Action 
within three squares of the player have the 
Bone-head skill for the turn (lost tackle 
zones from failed Bone-head rolls return at 
the end of this turn.
FOULEST OF FOULS (2)
"And that, boys and girls, is the sound of 
sixty thousand fans wincing in usion."
If you make a Foul Action this turn, the 
Armour roll automatically succeeds, and 
counts as not rolling doubles. A double on 
the Injury roll will result in the fouling player 
being sent off as normal (and quite right, 
too!).
RUNE OF UNWILLING FLIGHT (1)
"Hmm! Of all the traps I've seen hidden 
in the grass, that's certainly original!"
Pick an opposing player. Using all the rules 
for the Throw Team-mate skill, the player is 
automatically thrown (i.e., cannot be 
fumbled) to a target square that is D6 
squares away in a random direction from 
their own square - use the Scatter template. 
The player will need to make a Landing roll 
as normal if they land on the pitch.
PRE-MATCH ESPIONAGE (8)
"You'd almost think they'd swiped a 
copy of the other team's playbook."
Pick a player on your team. Until the end of 
the turn, that player has the Pass Block and 
Shadowing skills.
SLIPPERY SHOES (7)
"Oh dear. If I'm not mistaken, 
somewhere in this stadium there's a 
half-empty pot of Daisy Palmer's 
slow-acting shoe grease."
For the duration of this turn, each time a 
player Goes For It, they will trip on a roll of 
1, 2 or 3.
SPIKED SPORTS DRINK (9)
"Our sponsors would like us to clarify 
that Crimson Minotaur is perfectly safe 
to consume. Spontaneous mutations are 
a feature, not a side effect!"
Play after all players have been set up for a 
kick-off, but before the ball is placed.
Pick an opposing player and roll a D6. On a 
1, they go into a frenzy and gain the Jump 
Up and No Hands skills until the end of the 
drive. On a 2, nothing happens. On a 3 or 
more, they feel awfully drowsy, and gain the 
Really Stupid skill until the end of the drive.
Special Play Cards - Dirty Tricks (10)

DIRTY BLOCK (10)
"There's a lot of regulations 
governing blocks. I think that one 
broke them all!"
Play at the end of any of your turns, 
before the start of your opponent's 
Pick a player from your team who did 
not take an Action during the turn. 
They are placed Prone. Then pick a 
standing opposing player that is 
adjacent to them - that player is 
Stunned.
0-2 WANDERING APOTHECARY (2)
Used once during the match when a 
player suffers a Casualty or KO. If the 
player was KO'd leave him on the pitch 
Stunned or in the Reserves box if not 
on the pitch. Otherwise immediately 
after the player suffers the Casualty, 
you can use the Apothecary to make 
your opponent roll again on the 
Casualty table and then you choose 
which of the two results to apply. If the 
player is only Badly Hurt after this roll 
(even if it was the original Casualty roll) 
the Apothecary has managed to patch 
him up and pump him full of painkillers 
so that the player may be moved into 
the Reserves box.
0-4 EXTRA TEAM TRAINING (4) 
Getting all of your players in the 
same place is hard enough on 
match day, but if you flash some 
cash then you can probably 
organise a training session.
Add an extra team re-roll for each half 
of this match
0-1 IGOR (3)
Any team that cannot purchase a 
permanent Apothecary can hire an 
Igor. 
An Igor is a master of needle and 
thread on rotting flesh, connecting hip 
bone to leg bone, rewrapping funeral 
wraps and so on. He can really get the 
boys shambling back to the pitch. 
An Igor may only be used once per a 
game to re-roll one failed Regeneration 
roll for a player.
0-3 BRIBES (5)
50’000 GP (Goblins)
If you’re planning to misbehave, 
you’d better slide the ref a bag of 
gold or two before the match.
Each bribe allows you to attempt to 
ignore one call by the referee for a 
player who has committed a foul to be 
sent off, or a player armed with a 
secret weapon to be banned from the 
match. Roll a D6: on a roll of 2-6 the 
bribe is effective (preventing a turnover 
if the player was ejected for fouling), 
but on a roll of 1 the bribe is wasted 
and the call still stands! Each bribe 
may be used once per match.
0-2 BLOODWEISER KEG (1) 
Nothing says “Get back in the 
game” like a frosty Bloodweiser 
Magic Ale served straight from the 
keg.
For each Bloodweiser Keg you 
purchase, you can add 1 to the result 
of all dice rolls you make during this 
match to see whether one of your 
players recovers from being KO’d.
0-5 SPECIAL PLAY (6)
 
There are all sorts of ways an 
enterprising coach can prepare for a 
gruelling match. Everything from 
praying for assistance to 
booby-trapping the pitch - if you can 
think of it, it’s been done. 
Draw and keep an additional Special 
Play card in the Pre-match sequence.
0-1 HALFLING MASTER CHEF (8)
300’000 GP
100’000 GP (Halflings)
 Roll 3D6 at the start of each half to
see what effect the chef’s cooking has 
on the team. For each dice
that rolls 4 or more, the team is so 
inspired that they gain a Team
Re-roll, and in addition the opposing 
team is so distracted by the
fantastic cooking smells emanating 
from their opponent’s dug-out
that they lose a Team Re-roll (but only 
if they have any left to
lose).
0-1 Wizard, 150,000 GP (7)
Used once per game, at the start of their own 
turn before any player performs an Action OR 
immediately after their own team's turn has 
ended even if it ended with a turnover. 
Choose either Fireball or Lightning Bolt.
Fireball: Choose any square. Roll a dice for 
each standing adjacent player (from either 
team) that is adjacent or in the square. On a 
4+, the player is Knocked Down. Make an 
Armour roll (and possible Injury as well) using 
Mighty Blow. The moving team only suffers a 
turnover if the moving team’s player was 
knocked down while carrying the ball. 
Lightning Bolt: Pick a standing player 
anywhere on the pitch, and roll one dice. If the 
score is a 2 or higher, then he has been hit by 
the lightning bolt. If the roll is a 1 then he 
manages to dodge out of the way. A player hit 
by a lightning bolt is Knocked Down and must 
make an Armour roll (and possible Injury as 
well) as if hit by a player with the Mighty Blow 

0-1 INTERFERENCE (9)
If you’re up against it, there’s 
nothing wrong with enlisting fans to 
help.
Once during the game, before your 
opponent makes a dice roll for a player 
that is within two squares of the 
sidelines, you can declare Interference 
to give them an additional -1 modifier 
to the dice roll.
0-1 WAAAGH! DRUMMER (13)
30’000 GP
At the start of each drive, after the 
kick-off has been resolved but
before the receiving team begins their 
turn, roll 3D6. For each
dice that scores a 6, the team with the 
Waaagh! Drummer can
pick an opposing player and move 
them D3 squares straight
towards their own End Zone. Dodge 
rolls do not need to be made
for this move. If a player's path is 
blocked by another player, they
stop moving. If they move into a 
square with the ball, they
must attempt to pick it up.
0-1 WARLOCK ENGINEER (15)
120’000 GP
Used once per game, at the start of the turn, or 
immediately after the turn as ended (even if it 
ended in a turnover). Pick a square adjacent to 
the sidelines. The lightning moves in a straight line 
towards the opposite side line, hitting the first 
player in its path from either team. Make an 
Armour Roll for that player. If the roll fails, the 
player is unaffected and the bolt carries on moving 
towards the opposite sidelines, striking the next 
player in its path. Make an Armour Roll for that 
player in the same way. Keep doing this until an 
Armour Roll succeeds or the bolt moves off the 
When an Armour Roll succeeds, the player that 
the roll was made for is Knocked Down, and an 
Injury Roll is made for them. Then, warp lightning 
arcs to each standing player that is adjacent. Roll 
a D6 for each: on a 4+ they are also Knocked 
Down. Note that the lightning does not carry on 
arcing!
0-1 RUNESMITH (14)
At the start of a drive after setting your team 
up, you can pick one of your players on the 
pitch to receive a rune on 3+.Then the 
Runesmith cannot be used again for the 
rest of the match. If the roll failed, the rune 
does not work, but the Runesmith can be 
used again in a later drive. Star Players, 
being very protective of their kit, cannot be 
affected by runes. Each rune lasts until the 
end of the drive.
Rune of Might: +1 ST
Rune of Fury: Dauntless, Mighty Blow, 
Frenzy
Rune of Speed: +2 MA
Rune of Iron: +1 AV and Stand Firm
Rune of Impact: Juggernaut and Horns
0-1 REVITALISING TONIC (10) 
Once per match you can force the 
tonic down a KO'd player's throat at the 
start of a drive instead of rolling to see 
whether the player recover as normal. 
Roll a D6. On a 2 or more, the player 
recovers, but on a 1 the player remain 
KO’d.
0-1 HORATIO X. SCOTTENHEIM (16)
80’000 GOLD PIECES
Used once per half at the start of his team’s 
turn (before any player performs an Action), 
or immediately after his team’s turn has 
ended (even if it ended with a turnover). 
Choose a target anywhere on the pitch, 
then roll for scatter and move the target 
square D3 squares in that direction. Roll 
one dice to hit each standing player (from 
either team) that is either in the target 
square or adjacent to it. On a 4+, the target 
is Knocked Down. Make an Armour roll (and 
possible Injury roll) for each player Knocked 
Down as if they had been Knocked Down 
by a player with the Mighty Blow skill. If a 
player on Horatio’s team is knocked down 
by a fireball, they do not suffer a turnover 
unless that player was carrying the ball at 
the time.
0-1 KARI COLDSTEEL (17)
50’000 GOLD PIECES
Kari counts as 3 Cheerleaders. In 
addition, if her team cannot set up 11 
players at the start of a drive, Kari may 
decide to show ‘em how it’s done! Her 
team’s coach can choose to remove 
her from the sidelines area and set her 
up as part of the team. If they do so, 
she counts as part of the team for the 
duration of the drive, instead of 
counting as 3 Cheerleaders. When the 
drive ends, the ref sends her to the 
dungeons and she has no further 
effect on the game.
Orcs
Winterbowl Inducements Winterbowl Inducements
0-1 WEATHER MAGE (11)
40'000 GP
Using magic to influence the 
weather is certainly frowned upon...
You can use your Weather Mage once 
per game at the start of either team's 
turn (before any player takes an 
Action). Roll on the Weather table, 
adding or subtracting up to 3 from the 
result. The resulting effects last until 
the end of the turn, replacing the 
existing weather conditions until then.
Winterbowl Inducements
0-1 MASTER OF BALLISTICS (12)
Roll a D6 when the team kicks the ball 
at the start of a drive:
1-2: Scatters as normal.
3-4: The ball scatters one less square 
than normal.
5-6: After rolling for scatter, the kicking 
team's coach can choose to increase 
or decrease the result of either the D6 
or the D8 by up to two. They cannot 
change it to an impossible result - the 
lowest possible result is 1 and the 
highest is 6 (for the D6) and 8 (for the 
D8).
Dwarves
Humans
Loner, Block, 
Dauntless, Frenzy
Amazon, Dwarf, Human and Norse

0-1 FINK DA FIXER (18)
Fink counts as 3 Assistant Coaches. In 
addition, Bribes can be re-rolled. 
Finally, argue the call succeeds on a 
5+, not 6. However, if an attempt to 
argue the call fails, Fink is sent to the 
dungeon along with the Head Coach 
and has no further effect on the game.
0-1 PAPA SKULLBONES (20)
80’000 GP
Used at the start of each drive, immediately 
before the kick-off. Pick a player on the 
pitch and on his team (not a Star Player), 
then roll a D8. New skills are kept until the 
end of the drive, if they already have the 
skill, it has no additional effect. Each player 
can only be chosen once per game.
1: Knocked Out. 2: Pick a random player on 
the same team, (excluding players not on 
the pitch and players whom a roll on this 
table has previously been made) and roll 
again. 3: Big Hand and Very Long Legs.
4: Tentacles and Prehensile Tail. 5: 
Disturbing Presence and Foul Appearance.
6: Extra Arms and Two Heads. 7: Claws 
and Horns.8: Pick one of the above results.
0-1 KROT SHOCKWHISKER (21)
80’000 GP
At the start of any drive, immediately 
before his team sets up, pick a player 
from the Dead & Injured box (not dead 
and not a Star Player) and roll a D6. 
Note that any permanent injury which 
put a player in the Dead & Injured box 
still applies.
1: Roll for Casualty. Miss Next Game 
results don’t stack. 2-3: No effect. 4-5: 
Return to the Reserves box. Can be set up 
as normal. Gain Really Stupid skill for this 
drive. If they already have it, apply a -1 
modifier to any Really Stupid rolls until the 
end of the drive. At the end of the drive, 
they are returned to the Dead & Injured box 
if they are not already there. 6: As 4-5, but 
without Really Stupid.
0-1 GALANDRIL SILVERWATER (19)
Each time the number of Cheerleaders 
is used, the team counts as having 
twice as many as normal. If it does not 
have any, it counts as having one. In 
addition, each time a player on 
Galandril’s team scores a touchdown, 
intercepts the ball or inflicts a Casualty, 
roll a D6. On a 6, the team gains an 
additional team re-roll.
Ogre, Orc, Goblin and
Underworld Denizens
Elven Union, High Elf and 
Wood Elf teams
Chaos Chosen, Chaos Renegades 
and Nurgle
Skaven and Underworld Denizens

WARPSTONE BRAZIER (3)
When attempting to pick up, catch or 
intercept and the D6 roll is a 1 (after re-rolls, 
but before any modifiers are applied), roll a 
D6 for the player. If a player is granted a 
duplicate skill it had no additional effect. 
The skill only lasts until the end of the drive, 
or until they are (un)lucky enough to receive 
another spontaneous mutation from the 
warpstone brazier.
1: The player is Knocked Down. Add 1 to 
the result of the Armour Roll. 2: Gain No 
Hands. 3: Gain Bone-head. 4: Gain Thick 
Skull and -2 MA (minimum of 1). 5:Gain 
Foul Appearance. 6: +1 AV (max 10).
EXTRA SPIKY BALLS (1)
When thrown, thrown in or kicked off, it 
will not bounce if it lands in an 
unoccupied square. In addition, if the 
result of a roll to pick up, catch or 
intercept the ball is a 1 (after re-rolls, 
but before any modifiers are applied), 
the player making the attempt is 
treated as being attacked with the Stab 
General rules for all Special Balls:
-Once per game.
-When kicking.
-A second ball is always normal.
-Kickin player may not be set up on 
Line of Scrimmage or wide zones.
-Kicking player is sent off if the kick-off 
result is a double.
SHADY SPECIAL (5)
The art of getting a ball to deflate in 
midair during the kick-off was 
pioneered by devious gobbo kicker 
Grom Shady, and is a common sight 
when Goblins come up against 
show-offs who love passing. 
Any attempts to throw a Shady Special 
have an additional -2 modifier. In 
addition, as there's very little chance of 
a Ref proving that the sabotage was 
deliberate (and not the result of shoddy 
kit maintenance expected of a Goblin 
team), the kicker can't be sent off for 
employing a Shady Special.
MASTER-HEWN BALL (4)
Only scatters D3 when kicked. Not affected by 
the gentle gust of wind on a ‘Changing 
Weather’ result. When passing, long bombs 
cannot be attempted, and the Hail Mary Pass 
skill cannot be used. Long passes have an 
additional -1 modifier.
Whenever the Master-Hewn Ball is thrown, 
thrown in or kicked off, it will not bounce if it 
lands in an unoccupied square. If it lands in a 
square with a prone or stunned player, make 
an armour roll for that player before the ball 
bounces. If they are removed from play as a 
result, the ball does not bounce.
If a player attempts to catch a thrown 
Master-Hewn Ball and fails, roll a D6 after the 
ball has bounced away. If the result is equal to 
or higher than the player’s ST, they are 
knocked down.
LIMPIN’ SQUIG (2)
At the start of each team’s turn, the 
Limpin’ Squig will make a break for 
freedom. If it is being carried by a 
player, that player’s coach must roll a 
D6. On a roll of 1, the squig breaks 
free and bounces one square in a 
random direction, following all the rules 
for bouncing balls. Note that this does 
not cause a turnover. If the squig is not 
being carried by a player at the end of 
a turn, it hops 3 times, resolving each 
in the same way as a bouncing ball. If 
it hops into a player’s square and they 
fail to catch it, it bounces once, then 
stops.
Orcs
EXPLODIN’ BALL (6)
Place a marker on the score track to 
represent the length of the fuse. At the 
end of each player’s turn, roll a D6:
1: Fuse goes out, ball is now normal.
2-5: Move the marker one space 
towards 0.
6: Move the marker two spaces 
towards 0.
If it moves into the 0 space, it 
explodes. The ball carrier is knocked 
down. Any adjacent player not 
standing takes an Armour roll. Any 
standing adjacent players are knocked 
down on a 4+. A replacement ball 
scatters 3 times from the Explodin’ 
Ball’s square - a player cannot attempt 
to catch it until all three scatters have 
been completed.
SNOTLING BALL-SUIT (7)
Once per turn, the ball can move D3 
squares (it cannot Go For It) as if it 
were a player on the team. Use the 
throw-in template for direction, ignoring 
tackle zones. If the ball is being carried 
by an opposing player, that player can 
take an Agility test with a +1 modifier to 
prevent the ball from moving. 
Otherwise the ball bounces once, 
using up one square of its movement, 
and can then carry on moving.
If the ball moves into a standing 
player's square, that player must 
attempt to catch it, as though it were a 
bouncing ball. Goblin players, who are 
adept at catching runaway Snotlings, 
get a +1 bonus to this roll.

THORON KORENSSON (5)
If a double is not rolled during a foul, roll 
a D6. On a 1-2, the player is sent off. If 
a Bribe is used or a coach argues the 
call to prevent the player from being 
sent off, and the result is a 1, the player 
is sent off, as well as another randomly 
determined player on the same team 
and on the pitch. The coach can attempt 
to argue the call or use a Bribe again to 
save the second player, but the same 
rule applies - Korensson can keep it 
going all night!
If a Get the Ref is rolled on the Kick-off 
table, roll again. If the re-rolled result is 
another Get the Ref, Korensson is 
replaced with a standard referee for the 
rest of the match. Each team gets a 
Bribe as normal.
TRUNDLEFOOT TRIPLETS (1)
If a double is not rolled during a foul, 
roll a D6. On a 1, the fouling player is 
sent off as if rolling a double. On a 6, 
the target of the foul is sent off instead! 
In either case, a Bribe can be used or 
argue the call can be attempted.
In addition, each coach rolls a D6 
immediately before setting their team 
up at the start of a drive, but after 
rolling for KO'd players. On a roll of 1, 
a random player from their team (not 
KO'd or injured players) cannot be set 
up this drive.
If a Get the Ref result is rolled on the 
Kick-off table, the triplets are replaced 
with a standard referee for the rest of 
the match in addition to receiving the 
Bribes.
GOBLIN REFEREE (3)
The Ref starts next to the sidelines. When a 
player commits a foul and is not sent off, the 
Ref moves on step up on that team's Score 
Track (starting on 1). Subsequent fouls 
where players are not sent off moves the 
Ref further steps up. After the Ref has 
moved, the fouling team's coach rolls a D6. 
If the result not higher than the number the 
Ref is standing on (after moving), the player 
suffers the consequences. If an opponent 
commits a foul, the Ref moves down one 
step or, if the Ref was on number 1, put him 
back where he started, next to the pitch. If a 
player on the team that the Ref is keeping 
an eye on is sent off, or if that team uses a 
Bribe to prevent a player being sent off, he 
calms down and is returned to where he 
started, next to the pitch.
Consequences: 
Place the player Prone and make an injury 
RANULF ‘RED’ HOKULI (2)
If a double is not rolled during a foul, 
roll a D6. On a 1-2, choose one of the 
following:
-Use a Bribe.
-Sent off, causing a turnover.
-Make an Injury roll for the fouling 
player, adding 2 to the result. The team 
suffers a turnover.
Head Coaches cannot argue the call. 
Get the Ref still applies.
JORM THE OGRE (6)
If a double is not rolled during a foul, roll 
a D6. On a 1 (or 1-2 if the fouling 
player's team has the highest score), 
pick a random player on the fouling 
player's team who is on the pitch and 
roll an Armour roll (and potentially an 
Injury roll) using Mighty Blow skill. If the 
player does not remain standing, the 
team suffers a turnover.
If a Get the Ref result is rolled on the 
Kick-off table, its normal effects do not 
take place. Instead, modify FAME as 
follows:
-If no team has FAME, randomize one 
team to get +1 FAME.
-If one team has FAME, roll a D6: 1: -1 
FAME and +1 FAME to the opponent. 
2-3: -1 FAME.
HALFLING REFEREE (4)
The Ref starts next to the sidelines. When a 
player commits a foul and is not sent off, 
the Ref moves on step up on that team's 
Score Track (starting on 1). Subsequent 
fouls where players are not sent off moves 
the Ref further steps up. After the Ref has 
moved, the fouling team's coach rolls a D6. 
If the result is not higher than the number the 
Ref is standing on (after moving), the player 
suffers the consequences. If an opponent 
commits a foul, the Ref moves down one 
step or, if the Ref was on number 1, put him 
back where he started, next to the pitch. If a 
player on the team that the Ref is keeping 
an eye on is sent off, or if that team uses a 
Bribe to prevent a player being sent off, he 
calms down and is returned to where he 
started, next to the pitch.
Consequences:
The team loses a Team Re-roll, or if they do 
not have any, the other team gains one 
instead.

ROUGH & READY STADIUM (1)
Apathetic Officials
 Each team gets a bonus Bribe in each 
half of the game.
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (1)
Ankle-Deep Water
If a player is Knocked Down while 
Going For It or Dodging, subtract 1 
from the Armor Roll. In addition, when 
a player recovers from being Stunned, 
roll a D6. On a 1, they remain Stunned 
for another turn.
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (3)
Ice
After the ball bounces, it moves one 
more square in the same direction. 
Also, whenever a player is Knocked 
Down, they slide one square in a 
random direction. If they would slide 
into an occupied square, they do not 
move. If they slide off the pitch, make 
an Injury roll as normal. If they slide 
into the square with the ball, the ball 
bounces.
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (5)
Uneven Footing
All players have -1 MA (to a minimum 
of 3). However, players can Go For It 
one more time than normal.
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (4)
Astrogranite
Add 1 to all Armour rolls. If a player 
fails a GFI, roll a D6. On a 4+, the 
player stays standing and there is no 
turnover, but they cannot attempt to Go 
For It again this Action.
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (2)
Sloping Pitch
At the start of each drive, randomize 
towards which team’s End Zone the 
pitch is sloping. At half-time, the teams 
change sides and the pitch slopes the 
opposite way. Whenever the ball 
bounces, do not use the Scatter 
template, instead use the Throw-in 
template oriented directly down the 
slope. In addition, players can Go For 
It one additional time, as long as it 
takes them downwards.
ROUGH & READY STADIUM (3)
Uncovered Trapdoors
 If a player moves into a Trapdoor 
square (voluntarily or otherwise), they 
are counted as having been pushed 
into the crowd. If the ball bounces into 
a Trapdoor square, it scatters D6 in a 
random direction.
ROUGH & READY STADIUM (2)
Appalling Stands
After each drive, each coach rolls a D6. 
On a roll of 1, apply -1 FAME (this can 
take it into negative figures). The team’s 
winnings at the end of the match cannot 
go below 0!
UNUSUAL PLAYING SURFACE (6)
Solid Stone
If the ball bounces into an unoccupied 
square, it will bounce one more time. In 
addition, add 1 to all Injury rolls.

LUXURY STADIUM (4)
On-site Apothecaries
Each team receives +1 Apothecary (or 
a re-roll if the team is forbidden from 
using an Apothecary).
ROUGH & READY STADIUM (4)
Unclear Markings
The kicking team can choose to move 
the line of scrimmage can be moved 
one square forward or back. This 
creates a temporary halfway line for 
setting up both teams this kick-off and 
is also used for the purposes of 
touchback. In addition, the limit of two 
players per wide zone during setup 
does not apply for either team.
ROUGH & READY STADIUM (6)
Poorly Built Dungeons
At the start of a drive, players that has 
been sent off return on a 5+.
LUXURY STADIUM (2)
Reputation for Spectacle
Each coach receives an extra 2D6 x 
10’000 for inducements (the same 
amount goes to both teams).
LUXURY STADIUM (1)
Integrated Merchandise Stalls
Each coach add an extra D3 x 10’000 
to their total winnings.
ROUGH & READY STADIUM (5)
Desperate for Exposure
Each team receives an additional D6 x 
10’000 after the match (both teams 
receive the same amount).
LUXURY STADIUM (6)
Deluxe Seating
At the start of each drive after the first, 
each coach rolls a D3 and adds their 
FAME. If the result is higher than the 
number of team re-rolls they currently 
have, they gain a bonus team re-roll.
LUXURY STADIUM (5)
Enclosed Pitch
Players cannot be pushed into the crowd. 
Instead, the player is Knocked Down in 
the square they were pushed from. Make 
an Armour Roll. In addition, the ball 
moves only D3 instead of 2D6 when 
scattering back into the pitch.
LUXURY STADIUM (3)
Broadcast Studio
Star Players are 50’000 cheaper 
(minimum 10’000). Add 3 to the result 
of each coach’s dice roll when 
determining changes to Fan Factor.

LOCAL CROWD (1)
Ale-fuelled Maniacs
Before rolling on the Kick-off table, roll 
a D6. If the result is a 1 (for the first 
half) or 1-2 (for the second half), do not 
roll on the Kick-off table. Instead, roll 
another D6: 1= Get the ref, 2-3 = Riot, 
4-5 = Throw a Rock, 6 = Pitch Invasion
LOCAL CROWD (3)
Know-it-all Hecklers
If a player is fouled off the pitch and 
the fouling player is not sent off as a 
result, roll a D6. On a 1-3, the player is 
sent off as though they had rolled a 
double on the Armour roll or Injury roll.
LOCAL CROWD (5)
Fair Weather Fans
At the start of each drive after the first, 
roll a D6. On 1-2, a large number of 
fans have left. Each player’s FAME is 
reduced by 1 - this can take it into 
negative figures (team’s winning at the 
end of the match cannot go below 0). 
In addition, if the ball leaves play, roll a 
D6 subtracting 1 for each time a large 
number of fans have left. On a 4+, the 
ball is thrown back as normal. 
Otherwise it is not thrown back in until 
the end of the next turn (from the 
square it left play).
LOCAL CROWD (4)
Bunch of Pacifists
If a player is Stunned, Knocked Out or 
Injured by a result of the Kick-off table, 
roll a D6. On a 4+, the result is 
ignored. If a player is pushed into the 
crowd, on a 4+ they are placed straight 
into their Reserves box.
LOCAL CROWD (2)
Boisterous Rabble
Each coach gets +1 FAME (maximum 
2). Add +1 to Injury rolls when a player 
is pushed into the crowd.
LOCAL CROWD (6)
Solemn and Silent
During the match, each team’s FAME 
is counted as 0 (it is used as normal 
during Post-match sequence). 
Cheerleaders have no effect on 
Kick-off table results. If a player is 
pushed into the crowd (after the 
pushing player have decided to follow 
up or not), the pushed player is 
returned to the pitch in a square 
adjacent to the sidelines and as close 
as possible to the square they left. If 
they were Knocked Down during the 
push, they are Placed Prone and an 
Armour roll is made for them as 
normal. Otherwise, they return to play 
standing.,

OPTIONAL LEAGUE RULES FROM LRB6
Awarding the Most Valuable Player during the Post-Game
Instead of using the standard rules for Most Valuable Player, the 
following two options are offered as replacement text for the first 
sentence:
1) One player from each team, chosen by his coach, is awarded 
a Most Valuable Player award at the end of the match.
Spiralling Expense Modifications
There are lots of different leagues, all of which have different cost 
bases and revenue streams so a commissioner should feel free 
both to alter the breakpoint (1,750,000 gold pieces) and the step 
size (150,000 gold pieces) for the Spiralling Expense rules on to 
suit their own league. For example, the small Albion domestic 
league has a breakpoint of 1,250,000 gold pieces and a step size 
of 100,000 gold pieces, the wealthy Imperial Premiership has a 
breakpoint of a massive 2,500,000 gold pieces and step size of 
250,000 gold pieces, while the Naggaroth Open has a break point 
of 2,000,000 gold pieces and a step size of 50,000 gold pieces.
Excluding or Changing Inducements in League Play
A commissioner is allowed to remove any specific inducement(s) 
from the list of allowed inducements that he feels does not work 
for his league environment, such as Wizards.
Commissioners may also choose to use a different system for 
inducements than the one presented in this rulebook.
Using Inducements in One-off/Non-league Tournament Play
Commissioners of one-off games can choose to allow 
inducements to be purchased as a permanent part of each team's 
roster. The commissioner should be clear which inducements are 
allowed and which are not. For example a commissioner could 
specify for an upcoming event that the inducements options for 
Star Players, Bloodweiser Babes, Wandering Apothecaries, Igor, 
the Wizard and the Master Chef will be allowed as purchasable 
permanent components of the team for all matches played during 
the event, but that no other inducements can be purchased as a 
permanent part of the team.
Additional Cash for Short Term Leagues
The league rules are designed for long term development. If your 
league runs short seasons before resetting consider giving a 
10,000 gold piece winning bonus for losing and 20,000 for 
ties/winning or doubling the FAME modifier for the winnings roll 
(or both of these depending on the rate of growth desired).
Special Play Cards
The seven Special Play Card decks (from LRB6) are for 
commissioners to use to add some unexpected and fun elements 
to the game to whatever degree is desired.
Each of the seven decks has a purchase price to draw one card 
at random from that deck. For example for 100,000 gold pieces 
you may draw at random one of the 26 cards from the Good 
Karma deck. Once you have randomly drawn a card you may 
conceal the result until played but you may not exchange or trade 
it in for another card. You can pay additional gold to draw another 
card from the same deck or from one of the other seven decks.
In order to make the cards easily available to any league that 
chooses to use them, the card decks are organized so that two 
decks of standard playing cards can be used to create all seven 
decks. Decks have been organised by suit to allow coaches to 
quickly create the decks. For ease of use, your league may 
choose to combine all the 50,000 gold piece decks into one 52 
card deck. Each card has 4 areas to explain its effect.
Name: This section has the name of the card and the playing card 
that would represent this card.
Description: Describes the event the card represents. Timing: 
Specifics as to exactly when, and only when, the card can be 
played.
Effect: The effect the card has on the game when played.
There are three methods recommended for a commissioner to 
choose from for using the Special Play Cards in his league (if he 
chooses to use them at all).
1)
The Special Play Card decks are added to the list of 
Inducements that each coach may purchase. Special Play Cards 
should be limited to no more than 5 total draws from all the decks.
2)
The Special Play Card decks are used in replacement of 
the Inducements list (i.e. only Special Play Cards are used for any 
Inducements allowed for a match). Special Play Cards should be 
limited to no more than 5 total draws from all the decks.
3)
Special Play Cards cannot be used as Inducement 
purchases. Each coach is instead given between 50,000 and 
200,000 gold pieces (commissioner’s choice) useable solely for 
the purchase of Special Play Cards at the start of each match. 
This gold cannot be carried over beyond the current match and is 
in addition to any Inducement gold received by the team for this 
game.
Note: If you use both the Special Play Cards and the Inducement 
System for your league, players should be allowed to draw any 
Special Play Cards they purchase as an inducement and see 
which card(s) they draw before purchasing any other 
inducements.

2 ♠: BADYEAR GIT
A goblin doom diver who was too cheap to pay for admission is hit by the 
kick-off while flying over the stadium.
Play at any kick-off after all players have been set up and the ball placed, 
but before any scatter has been rolled.
The ball scatters 2d6, instead of 1d6, on this kick-off.
9 ♠: HOMETOWN FANS
Your team's fans start the match very willing to help their favourite team by 
throwing the ball to the perfect place for you.
You may choose the direction the ball is thrown in on the throw-in template 
every time it goes out of bounds during the first half. During the second 
half, all throw-ins are done as normal.
3 ♠: SPRINKLER MALFUNCTION
Somebody triggered the sprinkler system, on accident of course. The ball 
becomes difficult to handle and the mist makes it difficult to see until it is 
shut off.
All attempts to pass, catch, or pick up the ball have an additional -1 
modifier for this drive.
10 ♠: INCOMING!
The crowd received souvenir balls today and have decided to use them as 
ammunition instead of keepsakes.
Play after your turn has ended or your kick-off to an opponent is
resolved, but before your opponent’s turn begins.
For this turn, any player from the opposing team must dodge any time
they leave a square within 2 squares of either sideline or end zone.
4 ♠: ECLIPSE
Suddenly all light is blocked out by a total eclipse. Maybe it’s the complete 
darkness, or maybe it’s astrological magic, but for one brief moment all 
players are equal.
For your turn and your opponent’s turn, all players on the pitch have only 
the characteristics and skills of a rookie Goblin.
J ♠: ROGUE WIZARD
A wizard in the stands starts to get a little bored and bombs the pitch with a 
fireball!
Place a marker on the pitch, scatter the marker 5 times. If it does not 
scatter off the pitch at any point, the fireball explodes as the spell; the 
centre is where the marker is.
5 ♠: FANATIC INVASION
A crazed goblin fan talks an ogre into tossing him onto the pitch!
Play after your turn has ended but before your opponent’s turn begins. You 
may not play this card after a kick-off is resolved.
Place a miniature to represent the Goblin Fanatic into any empty square on 
the pitch. He has the same stats as a rookie Goblin Fanatic. The coach 
playing this card may immediately move the Fanatic. Each coach can only 
take a Move Action with the Fanatic after his turn has ended but before his 
opponent’s turn. This Fanatic has no tackle zones and blocks without any 
offensive assists. At the end of the drive the ref automatically ejects the 
Fanatic from the game.
Q ♠: BALL CLONE
The random chaos of Tzeentch has effected the ball.
If the ball is on the ground, a 2nd ball materializes in the square and one of 
them is bounced from it. The first player that crosses into the end zone with 
one of the balls rolls a D6. On a 1-3, the ball vanishes and a touchdown is 
not scored. This effect ends when a drive ends. Players may not pick-up, 
catch, or intercept a ball if they already are carrying one. A ball bouncing 
into the square with the other ball will bounce again.
6 ♠: FRIENDLY FANS
The crowd loves your team, and wouldn’t ever consider ripping one of your 
players apart… well, not this game anyway.
Any player on your team that is pushed into the crowd this game is only 
Stunned, do not roll injury.
K ♠: JOHNNY WATERBOY
He must be a magician as that is some mighty fine H2O. One drink from 
this minor wizard of water seems to revive any bashed up players.
For this match, your players gain a +1 modifier to recover from KO’d for this 
match (a roll of 1 is still a failure).
7 ♠: ROWDY FANS
Your fans have shown up today and it’s with an extra evil glint in their eyes. 
They want a LOT of blood and are in the mood to help see it.
For this match, any block or foul made by or against an opposing player 
adjacent to the sidelines is treated as having one extra assist from your 
team. In addition, no opposing player adjacent to the sidelines can assist a 
block or foul.
A ♠: THAT BABE'S GOT TALENT!
Your team visits the local tavern the night before the game. One of the 
dancers offers to bring some friends to help the cheerleader squad and 
some patrons to help with some new play ideas and to see their 
performance at your match.
You automatically win all Cheering Fan and Brilliant Coaching rolls on the 
Kick-Off table for this match. In addition, you get an additional +1 to your 
FAME for any other Kick-Off table result for this match but not for the 
winning roll.
8 ♠: HECKLER
An overeager fan heckles and distracts one opponent especially well.
An opposing player of your choice may not use any skills (including block 
and dodge defensively) other than those that must be used (frenzy, loner, 
etc.) for this turn and the following opposing turn.
LRB6 MISCELLANEOUS MAYHEM DECK

2 ♥ : COME TO PAPA!
You have read the kick-off almost perfectly and are ready to receive it.
Play when you are receiving a kick-off after all players have been set up 
and the ball has been scattered, but before any kick-off result is rolled.
Move one player not on the line of scrimmage to the square where the ball 
will land.
9 ♥: PERFECT KICK
You try and kick the ball to just the right spot to help your defense.
Place the ball anywhere in the line of scrimmage or the end zone of the 
opponent's half excluding the wide zones. To determine the landing square 
for the ball, instead of the normal kick-off scatter, scatter the ball for one 
square 3 times using the sideline throw-in template for each scatter, you 
may choose how the template is facing on each scatter as long as it is 
facing a sideline or end zone.
3 ♥: DOGGED DEFENSE
Your players give everything they have to defend the end zone, trying to 
trip the opposition from the ground.
For this turn all your players that are Prone (not Stunned) exert tackle 
zones as if they were standing, however they cannot assist or cancel 
assists, catch, or take any other Action that requires a standing player.
10 ♥: OPTION PLAY
This play is designed so your ball carrier can choose either to keep the ball 
himself or dump it off to someone else.
A player of your choice gains the Dump-Off and Pass skill until the drive 
ends.
4 ♥: FLEA FLICKER
A trick play is on. You trick the opponent into thinking one person will run 
the ball, but he tosses it to someone else who throws the ball.
You may take an extra Pass Action, however the first Pass Action you take 
must be a quick pass.
J ♥: PUNT
Time to get rid of the ball and pin the opponent deep!
Play after your turn has ended, but before your opponent’s turn begins.
If a player you control has the ball, you may place the ball in any square 
you want and scatter the ball three times. If the ball is not caught it will 
bounce as normal.
5 ♥: FUMBLEROOSKI
The players on your team intentionally fumble the ball to open up some 
funny and spectacular plays.
For this turn any failed pick up, catch, or fumbled pass rolls do not cause 
turnovers. Also a player can intentionally fail to pick up or catch the ball, or 
fumble a pass. Any failed attempt to pick up or throw the ball ends the 
player’s Action. Any player failing a catch roll counts as having taken an 
Action for the turn as well, even if they have not performed an Action yet.
Q ♥: SPECTACULAR CATCH
A player puts himself on the line to try for an amazing catch.
For this turn a player of your choice gains Catch and Diving Catch.
6 ♥: GOING THE EXTRA MILE
A player on your team throws it into high gear to cover some extra ground.
A player of your choice may Go For It any number of times this turn. Each 
Go For It after the second has a cumulative modifier of -1 to the roll 
(example: the 4th GFI would have a -2 modifier to the D6
roll). If the player has Sprint he may add 1 to one Go For It roll made this 
turn (a natural 1 will still result in a failure though).
K ♥: SUICIDE BLITZ
The player gets a good jump over the line of scrimmage and launches 
himself at the opponents.
Play after a kick-off to your opponent has been resolved (including the ball 
landing), but before your opponent’s turn begins.
A player of your choice not holding the ball may take a Blitz Action 
immediately. This player suffers from the No Hands skill for this Action only.
7 ♥: HEROIC LEAP
The player has one chance to be a hero, and tries for it all!
Choose a player with strength four or less. This turn the chosen player may 
leap, as the skill, with a 3+ to land regardless of that player's agility or skills.
A ♥: WAKE UP CALL
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Time to get some extra 
players on the pitch, ready or not.
Play before you set up any players for a drive.
Instead of rolling for a player to come back from being KO’d, you may have 
the player automatically recover by placing the player on the pitch Stunned. 
You may do this with any number of KO’d players. After placing as many 
players from KO'd on the pitch as you desire, roll a D6 for each player that 
is Stunned. On a 4+, that player is turned to Prone.
8 ♥: NEW BLOCKING SCHEME
A clever blocking play gives you a one-up on your opponents.
Any player on your team that is in any of an opponent's tackle zones and 
adjacent to another player on your team may switch squares with the 
adjacent player from your team, unless either one has the ball. This may be 
done with only one set of two players.
LRB6 TEAM PLAYS DECK

2 ♦: BEGUILING BRACERS
The player has come across the bracers of Count Luthor to use for the 
match. They are so good that they even distract the player wearing them 
sometimes.
Choose one player on your team. That player gains the skills Hypnotic 
Gaze, Side Step, and Bone-head for the remainder of this game.
9 ♦: LUCKY CHARM
The player has acquired some lucky charms from a Halfling in a green coat 
before the game.
A player of your choice may ignore the first time his armour is broken, and 
just be Placed Prone. Any roll that ignores armour, such as the crowd or 
throw a rock, is not affected by a lucky charm.
3 ♦: BELT OF INVULNERABILITY
Your player really has found a way to become a man of steel.
Armour rolls made against a player of your choice may not be modified or 
re-rolled by any positive modifiers for the remainder of this game. This 
includes (but is not limited to) Claw, Mighty Blow, Dirty Player, Piling On, 
fouling assists and Chainsaw attacks.
10 ♦: MAGIC GLOVES OF JARK LONGARM
Your team is featured in Spike! magazine and the magazine gives you 
these gloves for your upcoming game.
A player of your choice gains the Pass Block skill, and an additional +1 
modifier to all interception rolls until the drive ends.
4 ♦: FAWNDOUGH'S HEADBAND
One of the great passers of all time has loaned your player his headband 
for this game, but you had better make sure you get it back before he 
notices it missing!
A player of your choice gains Pass and Accurate for this turn, but an 
additional +1 modifier on any interception rolls against him is applied as 
well.
J ♦: GOOD OLD MAGIC CODPIECE
Mother always said "never play without your codpiece". After years of being 
passed from one generation to the next, the magic is still working.
A player of your choice may not be fouled for this game and injury rolls 
against this player cannot be modified or re-rolled by anything 
including (but not limited to) Dirty Player, Mighty Blow, Piling On, and 
Stunty.
5 ♦: FORCE SHIELD
Your player paid top gold for a Ring of Invincibility, but it's not all that was 
advertised.
Choose the player on your team holding the ball. That player gains the 
Sure Hands and Fend skills until he no longer has the ball.
Q ♦: RABBIT'S FOOT
One player finds himself a lucky rabbit's foot after the pre-game meal of, 
well, rabbit.
A player of your choice without Loner gains the Pro skill for the remainder 
of this game.
6 ♦: GIKTA'S STRENGTH OF DA BEAR
A scroll found in the house of a retired legendary coach contains a spell of 
Bear strength.
A player of your choice on your team gains +1 Strength until the drive ends. 
After this the player has -1 Strength for the remainder of this game.
K ♦: RING OF TELEPORTATION
Where'd he go? The player uses a teleportation ring to get out of a tight 
spot.
Play after your turn has ended (unless your turn ending would end the half).
One player on your team of your choice can be moved D6 squares in a 
single direction of your choice (note: you must move the full D6 squares 
and must choose the direction before rolling the D6). Treat this movement 
as if the player had been thrown with the Throw Team-Mate skill but 
without the 3 scatters to determine the landing square. The landing roll 
from the teleportation is automatically successful unless he has bounced 
off another player.
7 ♦: GLOVES OF HOLDING
A player puts a magic salve, Grisnick's Stickum, onto his gloves before the 
Play at any kick-off after all players have been set up and the ball placed, 
but before any scatter has been rolled.
A player of your choice on your team gains the Catch and Sure Hands 
skills, but may not take Pass or Hand-off Actions for the remainder of this 
game.
A ♦: WAND OF SMASHING
Stick! Smash!
Choose one player on your team. That player gains +1 strength and the 
Mighty Blow skill for this turn.
8 ♦: INERTIA DAMPNER
The player has come across a magic amulet that slows the speed of any 
large objects that happen to intersect with his location.
Choose one player on your team. For the remainder of this drive, any 
opponent moving one square or more first and then blitzing this player 
suffers a -1 modifier to his Strength (minimum Strength of 1) for the block 
attempt.
LRB6 MAGIC ITEMS DECK

2 ♣: BLATANT FOUL
A player on your team is determined to take out the opposition, no matter 
what.
The armour roll for your Foul Action this turn automatically succeeds and is 
considered a non-doubles roll, however the injury roll for the foul must be 
rolled as normal with the player sent off on doubles.
9 ♣: KICKING BOOTS
These boots were made for stomping, and that is just what they will do!
A player of your choice on your team gains the Kick and Dirty Player skills 
and a -1 MA for the remainder of this game.
3 ♣: CHOP BLOCK
A player throws a dirty block on the opponent.
Play after your turn has ended but before your opponent’s turn begins. You 
may not play this card after a kick-off is resolved.
This card may only be played on one of your Standing players that did not 
take an Action during your last turn. Your player is Placed Prone and an 
opposing player in a square adjacent to him is now considered Stunned.
10 ♣: PIT TRAP
A devious groundskeeper has set up a pit trap for you.
Choose a player: that player is Placed Prone, no armour roll is made, and if 
the player had the ball bounce it as normal.
4 ♣ : CUSTARD PIE
One of your players thrusts a cleverly concealed custard pie in the face of 
an opposing player.
Choose one player on the opposing team adjacent to one of your Standing 
or Prone players (not Stunned). That opposing player is so flabbergasted 
by the pie hit that he loses his tackle zones for the remainder of this turn as 
per a successful Hypnotic Gaze roll.
J ♣: SPIKED BALL
A Bloodthirster is in the crowd today, so in honour of this event a spiked 
ball is swapped with the real ball. More blood for the blood god and the 
fans!
Until the drive ends any failed pick up or catch roll (but not interception roll) 
is treated as the player being attacked with the Stab skill by an opponent.
5 ♣: DISTRACT
Your player is very good at distracting all those around him.
The chosen player gains the skill Disturbing Presence for this turn and all 
opposing players starting their Action within 3 squares of the player count 
as having Bone-head (lost Tackle Zones from failed Bone-head rolls return 
at the end of this turn).
Q ♣: STOLEN PLAYBOOK
You nabbed a playbook from the opponent’s coach! He sure will be 
surprised when you know exactly how to ruin his play.
A player of your choice gains Pass Block and Shadowing until the drive 
ends.
6 ♣: GREASED SHOES
The magic grease applied to your opponents’ shoes has finally taken effect.
This turn all opposing players need to roll a 5+ to Go For It instead of the 
normal 2+.
K ♣: TRAMPOLINE TRAP
Someone set up a deep pit trap...with a trampoline in it!
Choose any opposing player. Using all the rules for the Throw Team-Mate 
skill, the player is automatically thrown (i.e. cannot be fumbled) to a target 
square that is D6 squares away in a random direction from his own square 
(use the scatter template). The player will need to make a landing roll as 
normal if they land on the pitch.
7 ♣: GROMSKULL'S EXPLODING RUNES
A player purchased some exploding runes from a dwarven runesmith 
before the game. Although they are illegal, they are highly effective.
Play before setting up for a drive.
Choose one player on your team. That player gains the Bombardier, No 
Hands, and Secret Weapon skills for this game. Because the Rune can be 
very volatile, any pass roll made with a Rune bomb is performed with a -1 
modifier to the pass roll.
A ♣: WITCH'S BREW
You've spiked the opponent’s Kroxorade bottle with a witch's 
concoction!
Choose an opponent and roll on this table. 1- Woops! Mad Cap Mushroom 
potion! The player gains the Jump Up and No Hands skills until the drive 
ends. 2- Snake Oil! Bad taste, but no effect. 3-6 Sedative! The player gains 
the Really Stupid skill until the drive ends.
8 ♣: ILLEGAL SUBSTITUTION
A reserve sneaks onto the pitch while the ref is cleaning his glasses.
You may place any player from the reserves box in an unoccupied square 
in the end zone you are defending. This player may only take a Move 
Action this turn. This may take your team to 12 players for the remainder of 
the drive.
LRB6 DIRTY TRICKS DECK

2 ♥: ALL OUT BLITZ
A tactical play of great effect…if it works.
For this turn, you may declare a second Blitz Action.
9 ♥: FAN UPROAR
Your fans start yelling so loudly that the opposing team cannot hear the 
coach or any of the on pitch play signals.
No team re-rolls may be used by your opponent for this turn or his nextturn 
(unless the drive ends before your opponent's second turn).
3 ♥: BANANA SKIN
One of the oldest tricks in the book, but a well aimed peel still is a great 
equalizer.
An opposing player of your choice in a tackle zone of one of your players is 
automatically Knocked Down. Roll for Armour/Injury as normal. If the player 
was holding the ball, it does not cause a turnover.
10 ♥: HURRY UP OFFENSE
Your team is making all of the time that it has left count, trying to mount one 
last scoring drive.
Play before moving your turn marker.
You receive an immediate free turn. However, after each Action roll a D6, 
on a 1 the free turn ends. This roll may not be re-rolled. Your opponent 
immediately begins a free turn after your free turn is over, and the same 
rules will apply for when it ends. If a TD would have been scored during 
your free turn, the touchdown does not count
unless a player from your team still has the ball in the end zone at the end 
of your opponent's free turn.
4 ♥: BUTTERFINGERS
One player from the opposing team knows he just is not himself today and 
ball handling for this drive is just out of the question.
For the remainder of this drive, one selected opposing player not currently 
holding the ball gains the No Hands skill.
J ♥: INTENSIVE TRAINING
One player from your team is really psyched for this week’s match, and has 
been working very long hours preparing for it.
gains one extra skill. This can be any skill that he can learn from an 
Improvement roll without a doubles roll.
5 ♥: CHAINSAW
One of your players brings along a chainsaw for the game: not too subtle, 
but effective.
Play before setting up for a drive.
A player of your choice on your team gains the Chainsaw, Secret Weapon, 
and No Hands skills for this game.
Q ♥: UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT
A player’s taunting and antics after scoring causes a fan to express his 
feelings towards him with a well-thrown rock-filled Bloodweiser can.
Play immediately after your opponent scores a touchdown.
The player that scored the touchdown is KO'd. He may not roll to recover 
from KO'd until the end of the next drive.
6 ♥: DAZED AND CONFUSED
One player from the opposing team was hit just a little too hard and is 
having trouble focusing on the game.
For the remainder of this game, one selected opposing player who is 
currently Prone or Stunned gains the Bone-head skill.
K ♥: KNUTT'S SPELL OF AWESOME STRENGTH
A crafty wizard in the stands casts a minor spell to give his favourite player 
some added hitting power.
For this turn, one player of your choice from your team is treated as having 
double his strength.
7 ♥: DOC BONESAW
That blood on his outfit and the saw on his hip are not very comforting, but 
his medical talents are difficult to refute even on undead players.
Play after a drive has ended and KO'd recovery rolls have been made.
A player from your team that has been KO'd or Badly Hurt is moved to 
Reserves.
A ♥: LEWD MANEUVERS
A group of cheerleaders were hired to distract the opposition. They do such 
a good job of it even your players are not going anywhere.
Choose a wide zone. Any player from either team that is currently in that 
wide zone may take no Action this turn or on the opposing turn that follows 
this turn.
8 ♥: EXTRA TRAINING
Your team has been working all week on playing better as a united squad.
Your team receives one extra team re-roll for this match.
2 ♦ : LURVE POTION
A magic potion slipped into your opponent’s drink makes someone in the 
stands completely irresistible to him.
Play after a kick-off to your opponent has been resolved (including the ball 
landing), but before your opponent’s turn begins.
One randomly selected opposing player, in a wide zone of your choice, is 
placed in the Reserve box. If the player was holding the ball, it bounces 
once from their original square.
LRB6 GOOD KARMA DECK
(100’000 gold pieces to randomly draw one card from these 26 cards)

3 ♦: MAGIC HELMET
Its magic has almost worn off, but this relic that once protected older 
generation Blood Bowl players over their entire career appears to have 
enough magic left for one more game.
gains +1 AV and the Thick Skull skill.
9 ♦: SCUTT'S SCROLL OF WEATHER MAGIC
You have tricked a gullible wizard into parting with a useful scroll.
Select a weather result. The weather will immediately change to that result 
and remain there until a Weather Change kick-off roll is made.
4 ♦: MIRACLE WORKER
Whether this crazy man actually has a direct line to Nuffle or not… he gets 
results.
Play after a drive has ended before rolling for KO'd players.
One player on your team who has suffered a Casualty roll of 41 or higher is 
now considered to be KO'd.
10 ♦: STILETTO
One player from your team has come armed to even up this match.
gains the Dirty Player and Stab skills.
5 ♦: ONE WITH THE KICKER
Somehow one of your players suddenly can read the mind of the opposing 
kickers and can almost always get to where the ball is going.
Play when you are receiving a kick-off after all players have been set up 
and the ball has been scattered, but before any kick-off result is rolled.
One player on your team gains Kick-Off Return and Diving Catch for the 
remainder of this game.
J ♦: TEAM ANTHEM
The crowd today is really out in full fanatic support for your team. Their 
cheers and encouragement for your team and abuse for the referees and 
the opposing team really have set the stage for your team to do their best 
(including bribing the ref for the coin toss).
Your team automatically wins the coin toss to kick or receive without 
flipping the coin. In addition, your team receives an additional +2 modifier 
to your FAME for any Kick-Off table result for this match but not for the 
winnings roll.
6 ♦: RAZZLE DAZZLE
A tactical play of great effect… if it works.
For this turn, you may declare either a second Pass Action or a second 
Hand-off Action.
Q ♦: THE FAN
As your team takes the pitch, a crazed retired warrior runs out of the stands 
and asks to help you “smash those gits!”. The head coach decides to see if 
he can help.
Add the fan to your team as a player even if this takes your team to more 
than 16 players. The fan’s stats are MA 6, ST 4, AG 2, AV 7, and he has 
the Loner and Frenzy skills. The fan leaves your team when the half ends.
7 ♦: SUITABLE PITCH
The pitch is made to be in perfect playing conditions for your team, either 
by removing some of the dangerous objects, or by adding even more. Once 
the ref is wise to this situation the state of the pitch is restored to normal, 
however.
Choose to either add more dangerous objects or to remove them. If you 
add more dangerous objects then all Armour rolls caused by being 
Knocked Down are modified by +1. If you choose to remove them, the 
modifier is -1 instead. This modifier affects both teams and stays in effect 
until the drive ends.
K ♦: THE WALL
Your team has been practicing a new special play and the head coach has 
decided now is the time to try it out.
Play after your turn has ended but before your opponent’s turn begins.
You may not play this card after a kick-off is resolved. During only this turn 
of your opponent, every player on your team is treated as having the Stand 
Firm skill.
8 ♦: RUNE OF FEAR
Your head coach had a Dwarven rune forged for him before the game and 
has decided now is the time to put its limited effect into Action.
During only this turn of your opponent, every player on your team is treated 
as having the Foul Appearance and Disturbing Presence skills.
A ♦: WOOF WOOF!
A stray dog runs onto the pitch and runs off with the ball.
The ball must be on the ground for this card to have an effect. Roll for 
Scatter direction with the Throw-in template. The ball scatters D6 squares 
in that direction and is where the dog places it on the ground
(no bounce roll). If the final square is occupied, scatter once more in the 
same direction. If at any time the scatter result indicates the dog ran into 
the crowd, stop scattering and have the crowd throw-in the
ball.
LRB6 GOOD KARMA DECK (continued)
(100’000 gold pieces to randomly draw one card from these 26 cards)

2 ♣: BAD HABITS
The opposing team has picked up some really bad habits and it’s starting to 
change their ability to work together as a team.
The opposing team loses D3 team re-rolls for this game only.
9 ♣: GIMME THAT!
One player from your team has been waiting all season to show what he 
can do – and he wants the ball NOW!
gains the Dauntless, Juggernaut, and Strip Ball skills.
3 ♣: BALLISTA
Your team has cunningly concealed a massive ballista along the sidelines 
allowing you to fire it at an unsuspecting opposing player at just the right 
moment.
The Ballista works exactly like a Wizard’s Lightning Bolt spell.
10 ♣: IRON MAN
One player from your team has dedicated the match to his recently 
departed mum and is determined to play for the whole game, no matter 
what the cost.
For the remainder of this game, any event that results in an Injury roll 
against a selected player from your team is treated as if a Stunned result 
was rolled without actually rolling to see an injury result.
4 ♣: BLACKMAIL
You have the goods on one of the opposing players, and you have chosen 
now to call in your favour.
You may treat a chosen opposing player, other than the ball carrier, as a 
member of your team for this turn only. Note that the referee recognizes the 
player as an opponent, so you may not score a touchdown for your team 
with this player and the player cannot be ejected for fouling his own team.
J ♣: KID GLOVES
One player from the opposing team has the NAF questioning his tactics on 
how he has been racking up those injuries. He decides to go easy this 
game to reduce the scrutiny on him.
For the remainder of this game, all armour breaks against your team by a 
selected opposing player from fouling or blocking will be treated as 
Stunned results without this player actually rolling to see an injury result.
5 ♣: BUZZING
One player from your team accidentally drank some Mad Cap Mushroom 
laced coffee before this drive.
not holding the ball gains +1 to his AG and the Jump Up, No Hands and 
Frenzy skills.
Q ♣: KNUCKLEDUSTERS
A player from your team slips on a pair of magical one-shot 
knuckledusters because he is going to make sure that the opponent he has 
his eye on goes down this turn.
For this turn, one player of your choice from your team can convert any and 
all Block dice he rolls to ‘Defender Down’ results.
6 ♣: DUH, WHERE AM I?
One player from the opposing team was out all night on a bender and is 
really not ready for this game.
For the remainder of this game, one selected opposing player gains the 
Really Stupid skill.
K ♣ : MAGIC SPONGE
The local wizard’s guild is fans of your team and has provided your team 
with a magic sponge that offers possible healing magic to one lucky player.
Roll a D6. On a 1, the sponge’s magic fails. On a 2+, you may heal one 
player in the Dead and Injured box to move him to Reserves.
7 ♣: EGO TRIP
One player from the opposing team has developed a real swelled head 
from his success and is demanding super star treatment.
Choose one opposing player. For the remainder of this game, that player 
must be activated first every turn or not be activated at all.
A ♣: MINE
Your team trapped the pitch with a disguised mine and the opposing team 
has just set it off.
Mine works exactly like a Wizard’s Fireball spell except that the centre 
square must have an opposing player in it for this card to be played.
8 ♣: ZAP!
An underhanded mage you have bribed turns an opponent into a frog.
Roll a D6. On a 1, the spell has FIZZLED and this card has no effect. On a 
2+, one targeted player is treated as having ONLY the following 
characteristics and skills for the remainder of the drive (MA: 4; ST: 1; AG: 
4; AV: 4; Dodge, Leap, No Hands, Stunty, Titchy). If he was carrying the 
ball it will bounce once from his square. His characteristics/skills will 
return to normal at the end of the drive, but any injury he suffers as a frog is 
permanent.
2 ♠: NOT-SO-SECRET WEAPON
You bribe the Groundsman to drive his “other” machine onto the pitch to 
help your team out.
Place a miniature to represent the Groundsman in any square on the pitch 
adjacent to the sidelines but not in an end zone. The Groundsman has all 
the stats and skills of a rookie Dwarf Deathroller. You may treat this player 
as a normal member of your team and it may take you above 11 players on 
the pitch for this drive. The Groundsman will only play this drive before he 
returns his equipment to the garage.
LRB6 RANDOM EVENTS DECK
(200’000 gold pieces to randomly draw one card from these 18 cards)

3 ♠: ORCIDAS SPONSORSHIP
One player from your team has been selected to help field-test the latest 
innovation in Blood Bowl footwear. The air-elemental filled soles make the 
player especially light on their feet.
gains +1 MA and the Sprint and Sure Feet skills.
5 ♠: TACKLING MACHINE
One player from your team has been told "win or else” by the Goblin 
bookies to make good on his gambling debts and he is determined to get 
his team the win even if he needs to take down every opposing player 
himself.
gains the Diving Tackle, Jump Up, Tackle, and Wrestle skills.
4 ♠: RAKARTH'S CURSE OF PETTY SPITE
Your team has bribed an old witch to curse one of the opposing players.
For the remainder of this game, one selected opposing player may not 
re-roll any dice roll either through team or skill re-rolls.
6 ♠: GET 'EM LADS!
Your team makes a major push to break through the opposing team after 
seeing one of their own go down.
Play at the beginning of your turn, before any player takes an Action as 
long as your team suffered any injuries (including Stunned) during the 
opposition's previous turn.
For this turn, each of your players gains +1 ST.
LRB6 RANDOM EVENTS DECK (continued)
(200’000 gold pieces to randomly draw one card from these 18 cards)
2 ♥: ASSASSIN
Your team hires a trained assassin to dope a vital player from your 
opponent’s team to force him to miss the game.
Pick a player on the opposing team. He must miss this game.
6 ♥: I AM THE GREATEST
Egos on the opposing team are running very high for this match and the 
head coach is unable to override his team’s prima donnas.
For each drive, only one of the two players with the highest Team Value or 
Inducement Cost on the opposing team eligible to be set-up for that drive 
(ie not Sent Off or in the KO'd or Dead & Injured box) may be placed on the 
3 ♥: DOOM AND GLOOM
Due to some cunningly planted rumours and smear campaigns, the 
opposing team comes into the game with some serious morale issues.
Roll a D6 for each re-roll the opposing team has; for each result other than 
1, the opposing team loses a re-roll for the match.
7 ♥: MINDBLOW
Your team has employed a powerful telepath and has chosen this moment 
to utilise her talent. Her mental scream temporarily stuns the opposing 
team into inactivity.
Roll a D6 for each opposing player on the pitch. On a 2+, that player is 
treated as if he had failed a Bone-head roll previously. This effect only last 
until the end of your turn after which the Bone-head effect is removed 
without the player needing to start his next action to cancel it.
4 ♥: DA FREIGHT TRAIN
You've bribed star Borg 'Freight Train' Gorthag and he comes flying onto 
the pitch to assist your team.
Place a miniature to represent Borg in any square adjacent to the sidelines 
but not in an end zone. Borg's characteristics/skills are MA 6;ST 5;AG 2;AV 
9 with Loner, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull, Break Tackle, Juggernaut, and Strip 
Ball. You may treat this player as a normal member of your team, he may 
take an Action as normal the turn he is placed on the pitch, and it may take 
you above 11 players on the pitch for this drive. Borg will leave your team 
at the end of the current half.
8 ♥: COME ON BOYS!
Your players show great discipline in the face of misfortune against a tough 
opponent.
Play after your turn has ended, but before your opponent’s turn begins.
If your turn just ended from a turnover, your team does not actually suffer a 
turnover from that failed roll. The Action of the player causing the turnover 
is ended, but any player on your team who has not yet declared an Action 
may continue their turn as if the turnover did not occur. Any further 
turnovers this turn simply end the Action of the player committing the 
turnover instead of ending the turn.
5 ♥: MORLEY'S REVENGE
The opposing team’s drinks have been spiked with a powerful laxative, 
which makes several players have trouble getting out of the locker room 
facilities for each drive.
Randomly select three opposing players. For the remainder of this game, 
each one must roll a D6 before every kick-off. On a roll of 1-3, he may not 
take part in this drive. On a roll of 4-6, he may be set up normally.
9 ♥: MYSTERIOUS OLD MEDICINE MAN
A small, wrinkled, cackling man comes to the team offering them some of 
his latest brewed snake oil which he claims will "cure all that ails you". 
Surprisingly it works... too bad he vanished without a trace after selling it to 
you.
Your team may subtract 1 from all Injury rolls against its players this game. 
If this takes the result below 2, the player is treated as Prone not Stunned. 
Rolls on the Casualty table against your team are not affected by this 
effect.
LRB6 DESPERATE MEASURES DECK
(400’000 gold pieces to randomly draw one card from these 8 cards)

HALL OF FAME
The Bright Crusaders (Humans)
Pious Followers of Nuffle:
The Crusaders can never make Foul Actions or use Dirty Tricks 
Special Play Cards. They will never play alongside a Star Player 
with the Dirty Player Skill. If, for any reason, a Bright Crusaders 
player is ever sent off, you cannot argue the call with the referee! 
However, such dogged devotion to the holy book pays off, and 
this season in particular, the team seemed to be blessed by 
Nuffle himself. At the start of each of your turns, if your opponent 
is winning, roll a number of dice equal to the difference in score - 
for example if the score is 2-4 in your opponent’s favour, roll 2D6. 
If at least one of the dice scores a 5 or 6, you gain a team re-roll.
The Orcland Raiders (Orcs)
Dirty Ploys:
At the start of each drive, after rolling to see whether KO’d players 
recover but before either coach sets up, roll a D6 and look up the 
result below:
The Warpfire Wanderers (Skaven)
Warpstone-fuelled Rampage:
Immediately before setting up the team at the start of each drive, 
roll a D6 and consult the table below to see the current effect of 
the team’s warpstone addiction.
Caught Out!
The other team caught one of the lads sniffing 
around their dugout, and weren’t too happy! A 
random Raiders player is Knocked Out.
Distracting Antics:
The Raiders do their best to disrupt the other team. 
Roll a D6. On a 4 or more, the other team loses a 
team re-roll.
Mysterious Disappearance…
A random opposing player doesn’t turn up for the 
drive. Roll a D6 again. On a 1-5 they cannot be set 
up this drive, and must be put in the Reserves box. 
On a 6, they miss the rest of the match!
The Ref don’t mind::
The first time in each half that an Orcland Raiders player makes a 
foul and the Armour roll and/or Injury roll is a double, the referee 
looks the other way and the player is not sent off.
The Greenboyz (Goblins)
Getting Away with Murder.
Thanks to any number of bribes, wheedling pleas and threats, the 
Greenboyz’ Secret Weapons don’t count as Secret Weapons.
Gotta Love ‘Em:
Regardless of the number of fans that turn up to watch the 
Greenboyz, their FAME bonus is always +2. Their opponent’s 
FAME is calculated normally, meaning that both players could 
have a positive FAME..
Painful Comedown.
Roll a D6 for each player on the team. On a roll of 1, 
they cannot be set up this drive. On a roll of 2, they 
can be set up as part of the drive, but must be Placed 
Prone.
Blind to Fear:
Each player on the team gains the Dauntless skill for 
the duration of this drive.
Warpstone Frenzy:
Each player on the team gains the Sprint and Frenzy 
skills for the duration of this drive. At the end of the 
drive, roll a dice for each player on the team. On a 
roll of 1, they are Knocked Out.
Temporary Mutation.
Pick a random player on the team. For the duration of 
this drive, they gain any one Mutation skill, chosen by 
the team’s coach.
The Chaos All-Stars (Chaos Renegades)
The Ballista in his Prime:
While Morg ‘n’ Thorg is on the pitch standing, all Chaos All-Stars 
players within three squares of him (other than Bork Bulge-Belly, 
Troll) count as having the Pro skill, and are unaffected by the 
Animosity skill. Note that Morg himself is unaffected by this rule.

The Underworld Creepers (Underworld 
Denizens)
Fistfights in the Dugout.
If the Underworld Creepers’ score is lower than their opponent’s 
at the end of any of their turns, roll a D6 and add the difference in 
scores, for example, if the score is 3-1, add 2 to the result. On a 
result of 5 or more, a fight breaks out in their Dugout! Roll a dice 
for each player in the Reserves box; on a 1, 2 or 3, they are 
Knocked Out. The fans love these scrapes - it’s half the reason 
the Creepers have any fans at all - and their cheering drives the 
rest of the team to play even harder. For each player who is 
Knocked Out, the team gains a bonus team re-roll.
The Celestial Comets (Elven Union)
Hidden Teleporters.
Beneath each of the pitch’s trapdoors is a hidden portal sconce, 
which the Comets players can use to traverse the playing field.
Once per turn, a player from the Celestial Comets can make a 
Teleport Action. This is identical to a Move Action, with the 
following addition. If the player moves into one of the Trapdoor 
squares, they immediately move to the other Trapdoor square - 
this does not cost a point of MA. If the other Trapdoor square is 
occupied, the player occupying it is Pushed in a random direction 
(determined using the Scatter template) before the teleporting 
player moves into the square.
In order to ensure fair play, the portal sconces have been 
enchanted to prevent the ball being carried through them. As 
such, if a player with the ball uses a Teleport Action to move 
between trapdoors, the ball is left behind in the Trapdoor square 
they moved from, bouncing once and causing a turnover (the 
player's move stops as soon as they enter the other Trapdoor 
square).
Note that the Trapdoor squares are otherwise treated as normal - 
the teleportation only happens when a player from the Celestial 
Comets makes a Teleport Action (such as Uncovered Trapdoors 
stadium Attribute which can be found in the Stadiums section), 
this is ignored when a player moves onto the trapdoor while 
making a Teleport Action.
The Grudge Bearers (Dwarf)
The Book of Grudges.
Dwarfs are noted for their ability to recall the precise details of 
each and every time the smallest slight has been visited against 
them, but the Grudge Bearers make their kin look absent-minded 
by comparison. The team's coaching staff maintain a meticulously 
kept Book of Grudges, and woe betide any player who gives them 
an excuse to write a new entry.
The coach of the Grudge Bearers should have a pen and paper 
handy to record grudges as they happen. If any of the events in 
the list that follows happens, the name and number of the player 
responsible should be noted down - a short account of the event 
and promise of vengeance is not necessary, but is definitely 
encouraged, as is eyeballing the opposing coach while muttering 
solemn oaths... An player can be recorded in the Book of 
Grudges more than once!
If an enemy player/coach:
Blocks a Grudge Bearers player, resulting in a Casualty.
Pushes a Grudge Bearers player into the crowd, or pushes 
a player who pushes a Grudge Bearers player into the 
crowd.
Fouls a grudge Bearers player, regardless of the outcome.
Plays a Dirty Trick Special Play card (one random enemy 
player on the pitch is deemed responsible).
Scores a touchdown, and their resulting score is higher 
than the Grudge Bearer' score.
With the Secret Weapon skill is set up at the start of a 
Uses the Stab skill.
Grudge Bearers players have the Dauntless and Mighty Blow 
skills when involved in a Block with a player whose name is listed 
one or more times in the Book of Grudges. If they are KO'd or 
sent to the Dead & Injured box, their name and number are 
stricken from the Book of Grudges. If their name appears in the 
Book of Grudges more than once, only one instance of it is 
stricken off. If the last instance of a player's name and number 
are stricken off then there is no longer a grudge recorded against 
them.
Also, at the start of each drive, the Grudge Bearers player rolls a 
D6. If the result is equal to or less than the number of names in 
the Book of Grudges (counting players once for each time they 
appear), the Grudge Bearers gain an extra team re-roll.
Designer's Note:
Needless to say, the Grudge Bearers are a team for those 
coaches who have a penchant for paperwork. Keeping track of 
the Book of Grudges will require a keen attention to detail... it's 
not for everyone, but it's a great chance to really embody the 
character of this team of bookworms!

STAR PLAYERS
Barik Farblast
Loner, Hail Mary Pass, Pass, Secret Weapon, Strong Arm, Sure 
Hands, Thick Skull
Bertha Bigfist
Amazon, Halfling or Ogre
Loner, Bone-head, Break Tackle, Dodge, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull, 
Bilerot Vomitflesh
Chaos, Nurgle
Loner, Dirty Player, Disturbing Presence, Foul Appearance
Brick Far’th & Grotty
Brick Far’th Skills
Grotty Skills
Chaos, Nurgle or Ogre
(Note: you must have 2 slots open on your roster to induce this 
duo which counts only as one Star Player inducement)
Loner, Bone-head, Mighty Blow, Nerves of Steel, Strong Arm, 
Thick Skull, Throw Team-Mate
Loner, Dodge, Right Stuff, Stunty
Bo Gallanté
High Elf
Loner, Dodge, Sidestep, Sprint, Sure Feet
160’000
Bomber Dribblesnot
Goblin, Ogre or Orc
Loner, Accurate, Bombardier, Dodge, Right Stuff, Secret Weapon, 
Boomer Eziasson
Dwarf or Norse
Loner, Accurate, Block, Bombardier, Secret Weapon, Thick Skull
Buboe Festerspit
Skaven: Clan Pestilence
Loner, Disturbing Presence, Frenzy, Horns, Mighty Blow, 
Prehensile Tail, Regeneration
350’000
Count Luthor Von Drakenborg
Necromantic, Undead or Vampire
Loner, Block, Hypnotic Gaze, Regeneration, Side Step
390’000
Crazy Igor
Vampire
Loner, Dauntless, Regeneration, Thick Skull (Note: Crazy Igor can 
be bitten by a Vampire on your teams as if he was a Thrall
120’000
Deeproot Strongbranch
Halfling
Loner, Block, Mighty Blow, Stand Firm, Strong Arm, Thick Skull, 
Dolfar Longstride
Elf, High Elf or Wood Elf
Loner, Diving Catch, Hail Mary Pass, Kick, Kick-off Return, Pass 
Eldril Sidewinder
Dark Elf, Elf, High Elf or Wood Elf
Loner, catch, Dodge, Hypnotic Gaze, Nerves of Steel, Pass Block
Fezglitch
Loner, Ball & Chain, Disturbing Presence, Foul Appearance, No 
Hands, Secret Weapon
Flint Churnblade
Loner, Block, Chainsaw, Secret Weapon, Thick Skull
Frank N. Stein
Human, Necromantic, Undead
Loner, Break Tackle, Mighty Blow, Regeneration, Stand Firm, 
Fungus The Loon
Loner, Ball / Chain, Mighty Blow, No Hands, Secret Weapon, 
Glart Smashrip
Skaven, Underworld Denizens
Loner, Block, Claw, Grab, Juggernaut, Stand Firm
190’000
Glart Smashrip Jr.
Loner, Block, Claw, Juggernaut
Grak & Crumbleberry
Grak Skills
Crumbleberry Skills
Any team
(Note: you must have 2 slots open on your roster to induce this 
duo which counts only as one Star Player inducement)
Loner, Bone-Head, Kick Team-Mate, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull
Loner, Dodge, Right Stuff, Stunty, Sure Hands
Grashnak Blackhoof
Chaos, Chaos Dwarf or Nurgle
Loner, Frenzy, Horns, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull
310’000
Griff Oberwald
Loner, Block, Dodge, Fend, Sprint, Sure Feet
320’000

Grim Ironjaw
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Frenzy, Multiple Block, Thick Skull
Grobrik Orcbiter
Dwarf, Dwarf Slayer Team
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Juggernaut, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull
Grut Gitgobbla
Frenzy, Juggernaut, Claws, Block
Guffle Pushmaw
Chaos Renegades, Nurgle
Loner, Monstrous Mouth, Nurgle’s Rot
Hack Enslash
Loner, Chainsaw, Regeneration, Secret Weapon, Side Step
120’000
Hakflem Skuttlespike
Loner, Dodge, Extra Arms, Prehensile Tail, Two Heads
Headsplitter
Loner, Frenzy, Mighty Blow, Prehensile Tail
340’000
Heinrich Von Duisgart
Block, Dirty Player, Filthy Rich
Helmut Wulf
Amazon, Chaos Renegades, Human, Lizardmen, Norse or Vampire
Loner, Chainsaw, Secret Weapon, Stand Firm
Hemlock
Loner, Block, Dodge, Side Step, Jump Up, Stab, Stunty
170’000
Horkon Heartripper
Dark Elf
Loner, Dodge, Leap, Multiple Block, Shadowing, Stab
Hthark the Unstoppable
Loner, Block, Break Tackle, Juggernaut, Sprint, Sure Feet, Thick 
Skull
330’000
Hubris Rakarth
Dark Elf or Elf
Loner, Block, Dirty Player, Jump Up, Mighty Blow, Strip Ball
Humerus Carpal
Khemri
Loner, Catch, Dodge, Regeneration, Nerves of Steel
Icepelt Hammerblow
Norse
Loner, Claws, Disturbing Presence, Frenzy, Regeneration, Thick 
Skull
330’000
Ithaca Benoin
Dark Elf or Khemri
Loner, Accurate, Dump Off, Nerves of Steel, Pass, Regeneration, 
Sure Hands
J Earlice
Necromantic, Undead or Vampire
Loner, Catch, Diving Catch, Dodge, Sprint
Jordell Freshbreeze
Elf or Wood Elf
Loner, Block, Diving Catch, Dodge, Leap, Side Step
Karla von Kill
Amazon, Halfling, Human or Norse
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Dodge, Jump Up
Kreek Rustgouger
Skaven or Underworld Denizens
Loner, Ball & Chain, Mighty Blow, No Hands, Prehensile Tail, Secret 
Weapon
Lewdgrip Whiparm
Loner, Pass, Strong Arm, Sure Hands, Tentacles
Lord Borak the Despoiler
Loner, Block, Dirty Player, Mighty Blow
Lottabottol
Loner, Catch, Diving Tackle, Jump Up, Leap, Pass Block, 
Shadowing, Very Long Legs
Madcap Miggz
Goblin or Underworld Denizens
Loner, Break Tackle, Claws, Leap, No Hands, Very Long Legs, Wild 
Animal
170’000
Max Spleenripper
Loner, Chainsaw, Secret Weapon
Mighty Zug
Loner, Block, Mighty Blow
Morg ‘n’ Thorg
Any team except Khemri, Necromantic and Undead
Loner, Block, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull, Throw Team-Mate
430’000
Nobbla Blackwart
Chaos Dwarf, Goblin or Ogre
Loner, Block, Dodge, Chainsaw, Secret Weapon, Stunty
Prince Moranion
Elf or High Elf
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Tackle, Wrestle
230’000
Puggy Baconbreath
Halfling or Human
Loner, Block, Dodge, Nerves of Steel, Right Stuff, Stunty
Quetzal Leap
Loner, Catch, Diving Catch, Fend, Kick-off Return, Leap, Nerves of 
Steel, Very Long Legs

Ramtut III
Loner, Break Tackle, Mighty Blow, Regeneration, Wrestle
380’000
Rashnak Backstabber
Loner, Dodge, Side Step, Sneaky Git, Stab
Rasta Tailspike
Loner, Catch, Extra Arms
Ripper Bolgrot
Goblin or Orc
Loner, Grab, Mighty Blow, Regeneration, Throw Team-Mate
270’000
Roxanna Darknail
Amazon or Dark Elf
Loner, Dodge, Frenzy, Jump Up, Juggernaut, Leap
Scrappa Sorehead
Goblin, Ogre or Orc
Loner, Dirty Player, Dodge, Leap, right Stuff, Sprint, Stunty, Sure 
Feet, Very Long Legs
Setekh
Loner, Block, Break Tackle, Juggernaut, Regeneration, Strip Ball
Slibli
Loner, Block, Grab, Guard, Stand Firm
Sinnedbad
Khemri or Undead
Loner, Block, Jump Up, Pass Block, Regeneration, Secret 
Weapon, Side Step, Stab
Skitter Stab-Stab
Loner, Dodge, Prehensile Tail, Shadowing, Stab
160’000
Soaren Hightower
High Elf
Loner, Fend, Kick-off Return, Pass, Safe Throw, Sure Hands, 
Strong Arm
The Swift Twins
Lucien Skills
Valen Skills
Elf, High Elf or Wood Elf
Swift Reaction: While one of the twins is in the Dead & Injured box, 
the other Swift Twin loses the Loner skill.
Loner, Block, Mighty Blow, Tackle
Loner, Accurate, Nerves of Steel, Pass, Safe Throw, Sure Hands
390’000
Ugroth Bolgrot
Loner, Chainsaw, Secret Weapon
Varag Ghoul-Chewer
Loner, Block, Jump Up, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull
Wilhelm Chaney
Necromantic, Norse or Vampire
Loner, Catch, Claws, Frenzy, Regeneration, Wrestle
240’000
Willow Rosebark
Amazon, Halfling, Wood Elf
Loner, Dauntless, Side Step, Thick Skull
Zara the Slayer
Amazon, Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Norse or Wood Elf
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Dodge, Jump Up, Stab, Stakes
270’000
Zzharg Madeye
Loner, Hail Mary Pass, Pass, Secret Weapon, Strong Arm, Sure 
Hands, Tackle, Thick Skull

The White Dwarf
Dwarf, Halfling, Human, Norse
Loner, Block, Dauntless, Mighty Blow, Stand Firm, Thick Skull
The Black Gobbo
Chaos Renegade, Goblin, Orc, Underworld Denizens
Loner, Bombardier, Disturbing Presence, Dodge, Side Step, 
Sneaky Git, Stab, Stunty
The Black Gobbo
Sneakiest of the Lot:
The Black Gobbo is legendarily devious, as evidenced by his 
countless elaborate schemes to undermine the White Dwarf. 
Before he even thinks about setting foot on the pitch it's a given 
that he will have already established a web of bribery, 
hostage-taking and other sneakiness that ensures the cooperation 
of the match officials. If the Black Gobbo makes a Foul action, this 
is not counted as the one Foul action that the team can make in a 
turn (in other words, another player on the team can still make a 
Foul action). Also, whenever a player from the Black Gobbo's 
team is sent off for Fouling (including the Black Gobbo himself), 
roll a D6. On a result of 3 or more, they are not sent off. On a 1 or 
2, the coach can attempt to use a Bribe or argue the call as 
normal. If the Black Gobbo is sent off or suffers a Casualty this 
rule has no further effect.
Get da Git:
If the Black Gobbo uses the Stab skill against Grombrindal, his 
coach can choose to re-roll the Armour roll.
Grombrindal
Cometh the Hour, Cometh the Dwarf:
Grombrindal's reputation is almost mythological. Tales abound of 
his shrewd tactical advice on the field of battle, on the Blood Bowl 
pitch this translates to a mastery of team strategies and the ability 
to draw the very best out of the players around him. Once per 
turn, when another player on Grombrindal's team who is within 3 
squares of him is chosen to make an action, their coach can 
declare that they will benefit from the White Dwarf's wisdom. That 
player gains one of the following skills until the end of their action: 
Break Tackle, Dauntless, Mighty Blow, Sure Feet, Sure Hands, 
Tackle.
Ancient Grudge: 
If Grombrindal throws a block against the Black Gobbo, his coach 
can re-roll the Block dice without spending a Team Re-roll.
WHITE DWARF AND BLACK GOBBO
Special Rules
These rules are optional and can be agreed upon by both players. If a match takes place between a Dwarf, Halfling, Human or Norse 
team and a Chaos Renegade, Goblin, Orc or Underworld Denizen team, there is a chance that Grombrindal and the Black Gobbo will 
turn up to play.
When the coaches roll to see how many fans turn up at the start of the match, if either coach rolls 10 or more (before adding their Fan 
Factor or any other modifiers), the legendary rivals turn up and join their respective teams! Note that they never turn up individually - if 
one team has one of them, their opponent always has the other.
Grombrindal and the Black Gobbo do not add to their team's Team Value, and they do not cost any gold to hire. If either team already 
has a full roster of 16 players, the coach must choose one player to sit the game out - in effect they are replaced by Grombrindal or the 
Black Gobbo for the duration of this match.

SKILL DESCRIPTIONS
Accurate (Passing)
The player may add 1 to the D6 roll when he passes.
Always Hungry (Extraordinary)
The player is always ravenously hungry – and what’s more they’ll 
eat absolutely anything! Should the player ever use the Throw 
Team-Mate skill, roll a D6 after he has finished moving, but before 
he throws his team-mate. On a 2+ continue with the throw. On a 
roll of 1 he attempts to eat the unfortunate team-mate! Roll the D6 
again, a second 1 means that he successfully scoffs the 
team-mate down, which kills the team-mate without opportunity 
for recovery (Apothecaries, Regeneration or anything else cannot 
be used). If the team-mate had the ball it will scatter once from 
the team-mate's square. If the second roll is 2-6 the team-mate 
squirms free and the Pass Action is automatically treated as a 
fumbled pass. Fumble the player with the Right Stuff skill as 
Animosity (Extraordinary)
A player with this skill does not like players from his team that are 
a different race than he is and will often refuse to play with them 
despite the coach's orders. If this player at the end of his Hand-off 
or Pass Action attempts to hand-off or pass the ball to a 
team-mate that is not the same race as the Animosity player, roll 
a D6. On a 2+, the pass/hand-off is carried out as normal. On a 1, 
the player refuses to try to give the ball to any team-mate except 
one of his own race. The coach may choose to change the target 
of the pass/hand-off to another team-mate of the same race as 
the Animosity player, however no more movement is allowed for 
the Animosity player, so the current Action may be lost for the 
Ball & Chain (Extraordinary)
Players armed with a Ball & Chain can only take Move Actions. 
To move or Go For It, place the throw-in template over the player 
facing up or down the pitch or towards either sideline. Then roll a 
D6 and move the player one square in the indicated direction; no 
Dodge roll is required if you leave a tackle zone. If this movement 
takes the player off the pitch, they are beaten up by the crowd in 
the same manner as a player who has been pushed off the pitch. 
Repeat this process for each and every square of normal 
movement the player has. You may then GFI using the same 
process if you wish. If during his Move Action he would move into 
an occupied square then the player will throw a block following 
normal blocking rules against whoever is in that square, friend or 
foe (and it even ignores Foul Appearance!) . Prone or Stunned 
players in an occupied square are pushed back and an Armour 
roll is made to see if they are injured, instead of the block being 
thrown at them. The player must follow up if they push back 
another player, and will then carry on with their move as 
described above. If the player is ever Knocked Down or Placed 
Prone roll immediately for injury (no Armour roll is required). 
Stunned results for any Injury rolls for the Ball & Chain player are 
always treated as KO’d. A Ball & Chain player may use the Grab 
skill (as if a Block Action was being used) with his blocks (if he 
has learned it!). A Ball & Chain player may never use the Diving 
Tackle, Frenzy, Kick-Off Return, Leap, Pass Block or Shadowing 
skills.
Big Hand (Mutation)
One of the player’s hands has grown monstrously large, yet 
remained completely functional. The player ignores modifier(s) for 
enemy tackle zones or Pouring Rain
weather when he attempts to pick up the ball.
Block (General)
A player with the Block skill is proficient at knocking opponents 
down. The Block skill, if used, affects the results rolled with the 
Block dice, as explained in the Blocking rules.
General
Agility
Strength
Passing
Mutation
Dauntless
Dirty Player
Fend
Frenzy
Kick
Kick-off Return
Pass Block
Pro
Shadowing
Strip Ball
Sure Hands
Tackle
Wrestle
Catch
Diving Catch
Diving Tackle
Dodge
Jump Up
Leap
Side Step
Sneaky Git
Sprint
Sure Feet
Break Tackle
Grab
Guard
Juggernaut
Mighty Blow
Multiple Block
Piling On (Optional)
Stand Firm
Strong Arm
Accurate
Dump-off
Hail Mary Pass
Leader
Nerves Of Steel
Pass
Safe Throw
Big Hand
Claw/Claws
Disturbing Presence
Extra Arms
Foul Appearance
Horns
Prehensive Tail
Tentacles
Two Heads
Very Long Legs
ExtraOrdinary
Always Hungry
Animosity
Ball & Chain
Blood Lust
Bombardier
Bone-head
Chainsaw
Decay
Fan Favourite
Filthy Rich
Hypnotic Gaze
Kick Team-Mate
Monstrous Mouth
Loner
No Hands
Nurgle’s rot
Really Stupid
Regeneration
Right Stuff
Secret Weapon
Stab
Stakes
Swoop
Take Root
Timmm-ber!
Titchy
Weeping Dagger
Wild Animal

Blood Lust (Extraordinary)
Vampires must occasionally feed on the blood of the living. 
Immediately after declaring an Action with a Vampire, roll a d6: 
On a 2+ the Vampire can carry out the Action as normal. On a 1, 
however, the Vampire must feed on a Thrall team-mate or a 
spectator. The Vampire may continue with his declared Action or 
if he had declared a Block Action , he may take a Move Action 
instead. Either way, at the end of the declared Action, but before 
actually passing, handing off, or scoring, the vampire must feed. If 
he is standing adjacent to one or more Thrall team- mates 
(standing, prone or stunned), then choose one to bite and make 
an Injury roll on the Thrall treating any casualty roll as Badly Hurt. 
The injury will not cause a turnover unless the Thrall was holding 
the ball. Once the Vampire has bitten a Thrall he may complete 
his Action. Failure to bite a Thrall is a turnover and requires you to 
feed on a spectator – move the Vampire to the reserves box if he 
was still on the pitch. If he was holding the ball, it bounces from 
the square he occupied when he was removed and he will not 
score a touchdown if he was in the opposing end zone.
Bombardier (Extraordinary)
A coach may choose to have a Bombardier who is not Prone or 
Stunned throw a bomb instead of taking any other Action with the 
player. This does not use the team's Pass Action for the turn. The 
bomb is thrown using the rules for throwing the ball (including 
weather effects and use of Hail Mary Pass ), except that the 
player may not move or stand up before throwing it (he needs 
time to light the fuse!). Intercepted bomb passes are not 
turnovers. Fumbles or any bomb explosions that lead to a player 
on the active team being knocked over are turnovers. All skills 
that may be used when a ball is thrown may be used when a 
bomb is thrown also. A bomb may be intercepted or caught using 
the same rules for catching the ball, in which case the player 
catching it must throw it again immediately. This is a special 
bonus Action that takes place out of the normal sequence of play. 
A player holding the ball can catch or intercept and throw a bomb. 
The bomb explodes when it lands in an empty square or an 
opportunity to catch the bomb fails or is declined (i.e., bombs 
don’t ‘bounce’). If the bomb is fumbled it explodes in the bomb 
thrower’s square. If a bomb lands in the crowd, it explodes with 
no effect. When the bomb finally does explode any player in the 
same square is Knocked Down, and players in adjacent squares 
are Knocked Down on a roll of 4+. Players can be hit by a bomb 
and treated as Knocked Down even if they are already Prone or 
Stunned. Make Armour and Injury rolls for any players Knocked 
Down by the bomb. Casualties caused by a bomb do not count 
for Star Player points.
Bone-head (Extraordinary)
The player is not noted for his intelligence. Because of this you 
must roll a D6 immediately after declaring an Action for the 
player, but before taking the Action. On a roll of 1 they stand 
around trying to remember what it is they’re meant to be doing. 
The player can’t do anything for the turn, and the player’s team 
loses the declared Action for the turn. (So if a Bone-head player 
declares a Blitz Action and rolls a 1, then the team cannot declare 
another Blitz Action that turn.) The player loses his tackle zones 
and may not catch, intercept or pass, assist another player on a 
block or foul, or voluntarily move until he manages to roll a 2 or 
better at the start of a future Action or the drive ends.
Break Tackle (Strength)
The player may use his Strength instead of his Agility when 
making a Dodge roll. For example, a player with Strength 4 and 
Agility 2 would count as having an Agility of 4 when making a 
Dodge roll. This skill may only be used once per turn.
Catch (Agility)
A player who has the Catch skill is allowed to re-roll the D6 if he 
fails a catch roll. It also allows the player to re-roll the D6 if he 
drops a hand-off or fails to make an interception.
Chainsaw (Extraordinary)
A player armed with a chainsaw must attack with it instead of 
making a block as part of a Block or Blitz Action. When the 
chainsaw is used to make an attack, roll a D6 instead of the Block 
dice. On a roll of 2 or more the chainsaw hits the opposing player, 
but on a roll of 1 it ‘kicks back’ and hits the wielder instead! Make 
an Armour roll for the player hit by the chainsaw, adding 3 to the 
score. If the roll beats the victim’s Armour value then the victim is 
Knocked Down and injured – roll on the Injury table. If the roll fails 
to beat the victim’s Armour value then the attack has no effect. A 
player armed with a chainsaw may take a Foul Action, and adds 3 
to the Armour roll, but must roll for kick back as described above. 
A running chainsaw is a dangerous thing to carry around, and so 
if a player holding a chainsaw is Knocked Down for any reason, 
the opposing coach is allowed to add 3 to his Armour roll to see if 
the player was injured. However blocking a player with a 
chainsaw is equally dangerous, if an opponent knocks himself 
over when blocking the chainsaw player then add 3 to his Armour 
roll. This skill may only be used once per turn (i.e. cannot be used 
with Frenzy or Multiple Block) and if used as part of a Blitz Action, 
the player cannot continue moving after using it. Casualties 
caused by a chainsaw player do not count for Star Player points.
Claw / Claws (Mutation)
A player with this skill is blessed with a huge crab like claw or 
razor sharp talons that make armour useless. When an opponent 
is Knocked Down by this player during a block, any Armour roll of 
8 or more after modifications automatically breaks armour.
Dauntless (General)
A player with this skill is capable of psyching themselves up so 
that they can take on even the very strongest opponent. The skill 
only works when the player attempts to block an opponent who is 
stronger than himself. When the skill is used, the coach of the 
player with the Dauntless skill rolls a D6 and adds it to his 
strength. If the total is equal to or lower than the opponent’s 
Strength, the player must block using his normal Strength. If the 
total is greater, then the player with the Dauntless skill counts as 
having a Strength equal to his opponent’s when he makes the 
block. The strength of both players is calculated before any 
defensive or offensive assists are added but after all other 
modifiers.
Decay (Extraordinary)
Staying on the pitch is difficult when your rotting body is barely 
held together. When this player suffers a Casualty result on the 
Injury table, roll twice on the Casualty table and apply both 
results. The player will only ever miss one future match as a 
result of his injuries, even if he suffers two results with this effect. 
A successful Regeneration roll will heal both results.
Dirty Player (General)
A player with this skill has trained long and hard to learn every 
dirty trick in the book. Add 1 to any Armour roll or Injury roll made 
by a player with this skill when they make a Foul as part of a Foul 
Action. Note that you may only modify one of the dice rolls, so if 
you decide to use Dirty Player to modify the Armour roll, you may 
not modify the Injury roll as well.
Disturbing Presence (Mutation)
This player's presence is very disturbing, whether it is caused by 
a massive cloud of flies, sprays of soporific musk, an aura of 
random chaos or intense cold, or a pheromone that causes fear 
and panic. Regardless of the nature of this mutation, any player 
must subtract 1 from the D6 when they pass, intercept or catch 
for each opposing player with Disturbing Presence that is within 
three squares of them, even if the Disturbing Presence player is 
Prone or Stunned.

Diving Catch (Agility)
The player is superb at diving to catch balls others cannot reach 
and jumping to more easily catch perfect passes. The player may 
add 1 to any catch roll from an accurate pass targeted to his 
square. In addition, the player can attempt to catch any pass, kick 
off or crowd throw-in, but not bouncing ball, that would land in an 
empty square in one of his tackle zones as if it had landed in his 
own square without leaving his current square. A failed catch will 
bounce from the Diving Catch player's square. If there are two or 
more players attempting to use this skill then they get in each 
other’s way and neither can use it.
Diving Tackle (Agility)
The player may use this skill after an opposing player attempts to 
dodge out of any of his tackle zones. The player using this skill is 
Placed Prone in the square vacated by the dodging player, but do 
not make an Armour or Injury roll for them. The opposing player 
must then subtract 2 from his Dodge roll for leaving the player's 
tackle zone. If a player is attempting to leave the tackle zone of 
several players that have the Diving Tackle skill, then only one of 
the opposing players may use Diving Tackle. Diving Tackle may 
be used on a re-rolled dodge if not declared for use on the first 
Dodge roll. Once the dodge is resolved but before any armour roll 
for the opponent (if needed), the Diving Tackle Player is Placed 
Prone in the square vacated by the dodging play-er but do not 
make an Armour or Injury roll for the Diving Tackle player.
Dodge (Agility)
A player with the Dodge skill is adept at slipping away from 
opponents, and is allowed to re-roll the D6 if he fails to dodge out 
of any of an opposing player’s tackle zones. However, the player 
may only re-roll one failed Dodge roll per turn. In addition, the 
Dodge skill, if used, affects the results rolled on the Block dice, as 
explained in the Blocking rules in the Blood Bowl book.
Dump-Off (Passing)
This skill allows the player to make a Quick Pass when an 
opponent declares that he will throw a block at him, allowing the 
player to get rid of the ball before he is hit. Work out the Dump-Off 
pass before the opponent makes his block. The normal throwing 
rules apply, except that neither team’s turn ends as a result of the 
throw, whatever it may be. After the throw is worked out your 
opponent completes the block, and then carries on with his turn. 
Dump-Off may not be used on the second block from an 
opponent with the Frenzy skill or in conjunction with the 
Bombardier or Throw Team-Mate skills.
Extra Arms (Mutation)
A player with one or more extra arms may add 1 to any attempt to 
pick up, catch or intercept.
Fan Favourite (Extraordinary)
The fans love seeing this player on the pitch so much that even 
the opposing fans cheer for your team. For each player with Fan 
Favourite on the pitch your team receives an additional +1 FAME 
modifier for any Kick-Off table results, but not for the Winnings 
Fend (General)
This player is very skilled at holding off would-be attackers. 
Opposing players may not follow-up blocks made against this 
player even if the Fend player is Knocked Down. The opposing 
player may still continue moving after blocking if he had declared 
a Blitz Action.
Filthy Rich (Extraordinary)
This player has access to more money than you'd care to think 
about, and they've got no qualms with using it to their advantage. 
If a player with this skill is sent off by the referee (for fouling or 
anything else), roll a D6. On a result of 2 or more, they are not 
sent off. If a rule is in
effect which prevents Bribes from being used, this rule has no 
effect.
Foul Appearance (Mutation)
The player’s appearance is so horrible that any opposing player 
that wants to block the player (or use a special attack that takes 
the place of a block) must first roll a D6 and score 2 or more. If 
the opposing player rolls a 1 he is too revolted to make the block 
and it is wasted (though the opposing team does not suffer a 
turnover).
Frenzy (General)
A player with this skill is a slavering psychopath who attacks his 
opponents in an uncontrollable rage. Unless otherwise 
overridden, this skill must always be used. When making a block, 
a player with this skill must always follow up if they can. If a 
'Pushed' or 'Defender Stumbles' result was chosen, the player 
must immediately throw a second block against the same 
opponent so long as they are both still standing and adjacent. If 
possible the player must also follow up this second block. If the 
frenzied player is performing a Blitz Action then he must pay a 
square of Movement and must make the second block unless he 
has no further normal movement and cannot go for it again.
Grab (Strength)
A player with this skill uses his great strength and prowess to 
grab his opponent and throw him around. To represent this, only 
while making a Block Action, if his block results in a push back he 
may choose any empty square adjacent to his opponent to push 
back his opponent. When making a Block or Blitz Action, Grab 
and Side Step will cancel each other out and the standard 
pushback rules apply. Grab will not work if there are no empty 
adjacent squares. A player with the Grab skill can never learn or 
gain the Frenzy skill through any means. Likewise, a player with 
the Frenzy skill can never learn or gain the Grab skill through any 
means.
Guard (Strength)
A player with this skill assists an offensive or defensive block 
even if he is in another player’s tackle zone. This skill may not be 
used to assist a foul.
Hail Mary Pass (Passing)
The player may throw the ball to any square on the playing pitch, 
no matter what the range: the range ruler is not used. Roll a D6. 
On a roll of 1 the player fumbles the throw, and the ball will 
bounce once from the thrower’s square. On a roll of 2-6 the player 
may make the pass. The Hail Mary pass may not be intercepted, 
but it is never accurate – the ball automatically misses and 
scatters three squares. Note that if you are lucky, the ball will 
scatter back into the target square! This skill may not be used in a 
blizzard or with the Throw Team-Mate skill.
Horns (Mutation)
A player with Horns may use them to butt an opponent. Horns 
adds 1 to the player’s Strength for any block(s) he makes during a 
Blitz Action.

Hypnotic Gaze (Extraordinary)
The player has a powerful telepathic ability that he can use to 
stun an opponent into immobility. The player may use hypnotic 
gaze at the end of his Move Action on one opposing player who is 
in an adjacent square. Make an Agility roll for the player with 
hypnotic gaze, with a -1 modifier for each opposing tackle zone 
on the player with hypnotic gaze other than the victim's. If the 
Agility roll is successful, then the opposing player loses his tackle 
zones and may not catch, intercept or pass the ball, assist 
another player on a block or foul, or move voluntarily until the 
start of his next action or the drive ends. If the roll fails, then the 
hypnotic gaze has no effect.
Juggernaut (Strength)
A player with this skill is virtually impossible to stop once he is in 
motion. If this player takes a Blitz Action, then opposing players 
may not use their Fend, Stand Firm or Wrestle skills against 
blocks, and he may choose to treat a ‘Both Down’ result as if a 
‘Pushed’ result has been rolled instead.
Jump Up (Agility)
A player with this skill is able to quickly get back into the game. If 
the player declares any Action other than a Block Action he may 
stand up for free without paying the three squares of movement. 
The player may also declare a Block Action while Prone which 
requires an Agility roll with a +2 modifier to see if he can complete 
the Action. A successful roll means the player can stand up for 
free and block an adjacent opponent. A failed roll means the 
Block Action is wasted and the player may not stand up.
Kick (General)
The player is an expert at kicking the ball and can place the kick 
with great precision. In order to use this skill the player must be 
set up on the pitch when his team kicks off. The player may not 
be set up in either wide zone or on the line of scrimmage. Only if 
all these conditions are met is the player then allowed to take the 
kick-off. Because his kick is so accurate, you may choose to 
halve the number of squares that the ball scatters on kick-off, 
rounding any fractions down (i.e., 1 = 0, 2-3 = 1, 4-5 = 2, 6 = 3).
Kick Team-Mate (Extraordinary)
When a player with this skill makes a Blitz Action, they can
kick an adjacent team-mate (who must have the Right Stuff
skill) instead of throwing a block. No Block roll is made;
instead, the target player is kicked as though they were a ball!
The coach declares whether they will roll a D6 for a short kick
or 2D6 for a riskier long kick. If they rolled 2D6 and scored
a double, the kicker has been a little too enthusiastic; make
an Injury roll for the target player, treating Stunned results
as KO’d (if they were carrying the ball, it bounces from the
square they were in).
Otherwise, the kicked player is moved (in a straight line)
directly away from the kicking player’s square a number of
squares equal to the total that was rolled on the dice. Then
they scatter three times. The kicked player does not count as
entering any square they move through except the one they
end up in after scattering.
If the kicked player moves off the pitch, they land among the
crowd (never a pleasant fate!) and are sent to the KO’d box
of the team’s Dugout. If they were carrying the ball it will be
thrown back on as normal, starting from the last square the
player moved through before leaving play.
If the final square they scatter into is occupied by another
player, treat the player landed on as Knocked Down and roll
for Armour (even if already Prone or Stunned), and then
the player being kicked will scatter one more square. If this
moves them onto another player, continue to scatter them
until they end up in an empty square or off the pitch. Note
that only the first player they land on is Knocked Down.
Then see the Right Stuff entry to determine how gracefully
the player lands – where that skill refers to thrown players, it
should be read as also referring to kicked players. If the player
moved 6, 7 or 8 squares (before scattering), the Landing roll
has a -1 modifier; if they moved 9 or more (before scattering),
the Landing roll has a -2 modifier.
Kick-Off Return (General)
A player on the receiving team that is not on the Line of 
Scrimmage or in an opposing tackle zone may use this skill when 
the ball has been kicked. It allows the player to move up to 3 
squares after the ball has been scattered but before rolling on the 
Kick-Off table. Only one player may use this skill each kick-off. 
This skill may not be used for a touchback kick -off and does not 
allow the player to cross into the opponent’s half of the pitch.
Leader (Passing)
The player is a natural leader and commands the rest of the team 
from the back -field as he prepares to throw the ball. A team with 
one or more players with the Leader skill may take a single 
Leader Re-roll counter and add it to their team re-rolls at the start 
of the game and at half time after any Master Chef rolls. The 
Leader re-roll is used exactly the same in every way as a normal 
Team re-roll with all the same restrictions. In addition, the Leader 
re-roll may only be used so long as at least one player with the 
Leader skill is on the pitch - even if they are Prone or Stunned! 
Re-rolls from Leader may be carried over into Overtime if not 
used, but the team does not receive a new Leader re-roll at the 
start of Overtime.
Leap (Agility)
A player with the Leap skill is allowed to jump to any empty 
square within 2 squares even if it requires jumping over a player 
from either team. Making a leap costs the player two squares of 
movement. In order to make the leap, move the player to any 
empty square 1 to 2 squares from their current square and then 
make an Agility roll for the player. No modifiers apply to this D6 
roll unless he has Very Long Legs. The player does not have to 
dodge to leave the square he starts in. If the player successfully 
makes the D6 roll then they make a perfect jump and may carry 
on moving. If the player fails the Agility roll then he is Knocked 
Down in the square that he was leaping to, and the opposing 
coach makes an Armour roll to see if he was injured. A player 
may only use the Leap skill once per turn.
Loner (Extraordinary)
Loners, through inexperience, arrogance, animal ferocity or just 
plain stupidity, do not work well with the rest of the team. As a 
result, a Loner may use team re-rolls but has to roll a D6 first. On 
a roll of 4+, he may use the team re- roll as normal. On a roll of 
1-3 the original result stands without being re-rolled but the team 
re-roll is lost (i.e. used).
Mighty Blow (Strength)
Add 1 to any Armour or Injury roll made by a player with this skill 
when an opponent is Knocked Down by this player during a block. 
Note that you only modify one of the dice rolls, so if you decide to 
use Mighty Blow to modify the Armour roll, you may not modify 
the Injury roll as well. Mighty Blow cannot be used with the Stab 
or Chainsaw skills.
Multiple Block (Strength)
At the start of a Block Action a player who is adjacent to at least 
two opponents may choose to throw blocks against two of them. 
Make each block in turn as normal except that each defender's 
strength is increased by 2. The player cannot follow up either 
block when using this skill, so Multiple Block can be used instead 
of Frenzy, but both skills cannot be used together. To have the 
option to throw the second block the player must still be on his 
feet after the first block.

Monstrous Mouth (Extraordinary)
A player with Monstrous Mouth is allowed to re-roll the D6 if they 
fail a Catch roll. It also allows the player to re-roll the D6 if they 
drop a hand-off or fail to make an interception. In addition, the 
Strip Ball skill will not work against a player with Monstrous 
Mouth.
Nerves of Steel (Passing)
The player ignores modifiers for enemy tackle zones when he 
attempts to pass, catch or intercept.
No Hands (Extraordinary)
The player is unable to pick up, intercept or carry the ball and will 
fail any catch roll automatically, either because he literally has no 
hands or because his hands are full. If he attempts to pick up the 
ball then it will bounce, and will causes a turnover if it is his 
team’s turn.
Nurgle’s Rot (Extraordinary)
This player has a horrible infectious disease which spreads when 
he kills an opponent during a Block, Blitz or Foul Action. Instead 
of truly dying, the infected opponent becomes a new rookie 
Rotter. To do so, the opponent must have been removed from the 
roster during step 2.1 of the Post- game sequence, his Strength 
cannot exceed 4, and he cannot have the Decay, Regeneration or 
Stunty skills. The new Rotter can be added to the Nurgle team for 
free during step 5 of Updating Your Team Roster if the team has 
an open Roster slot. This new Rotter still counts at full value 
towards the total value of the Nurgle team.
Pass (Passing)
A player with the Pass skill is allowed to re-roll the D6 if he throws 
an inaccurate pass or fumbles.
Pass Block (General)
A player with this skill is allowed to move up to three squares 
when the opposing coach announces that one of his players is 
going to pass the ball (but not a bomb). The opposing coach may 
not change his mind about passing once Pass Block’s use is 
declared. The move is made out of sequence, after the range has 
been measured, but before any interception attempts have been 
made. A player may not make the move unless able to reach a 
legal destination and may not follow a route that would not allow 
them to reach a legal destination. A legal destination puts the 
player in a position to attempt an interception, an empty square 
that is the target of the pass, or with his tackle zone on the 
thrower or catcher. The player may not stop moving until he has 
reached a legal destination, has been held fast by Tentacles or 
has been Knocked Down. The special move is free, and in no 
way affects the player’s ability to move in a subsequent action. 
The move is made using all of the normal rules and skills and the 
player does have to dodge in order to leave opposing players’ 
tackle zones. Players with Pass Block may use this skill against a 
Dump Off pass. If a player performing a Pass Block in their own 
turn is Knocked Down then this is a turnover, no other players 
may perform Pass Block moves, and your turn ends as soon as 
the results of the pass and the block are resolved.
Piling On (Strength)
The player may use this skill after they have made a block as part 
a Block or Blitz action, but only if they are currently standing 
adjacent to the victim and the victim was Knocked Down. You can 
use a team re-roll to re-roll the Armour roll or Injury roll. Then the 
Piling On player is Placed Prone in their own square - no Armour 
roll is made for them, and this does not cause a turnover unless 
the Piling On player is carrying the ball. Piling On cannot be used 
with the Stab or Chainsaw skills. If a player with the Loner skill 
wishes to use Piling On, roll a D6. On a 1-3, the team re-roll is 
spent, but they remain standing and cannot re-roll the Armour or 
Injury roll.
Prehensile Tail (Mutation)
The player has a long, thick tail which he can use to trip up 
opposing players. To represent this, opposing players must 
subtract 1 from the D6 roll if they attempt to dodge out of any of 
the player’s tackle zones.
Pro (General)
A player with this skill is a hardened veteran. Such players are 
called professionals or Pros by other Blood Bowl players because 
they rarely make a mistake. Once per turn, a Pro is allowed to 
re-roll any one dice roll he has made other than Armour, Injury or 
Casualty, even if he is Prone or Stunned. However, before the 
re-roll may be made, his coach must roll a D6. On a roll of 4, 5 or 
6 the re-roll may be made. On a roll of 1, 2 or 3 the original result 
stands and may not be re-rolled with a skill or team re-roll; 
however you can re-roll the Pro roll with a Team re-roll.
Really Stupid (Extraordinary)
This player is without doubt one of the dimmest creatures to ever 
take to a Blood Bowl pitch (which considering the IQ of most other 
players, is really saying something!) . Because of this you must 
roll a D6 immediately after declaring an Action for the player, but 
before taking the Action. If there are one or more players from the 
same team standing adjacent to the Really Stupid player’s 
square, and who aren’t Really Stupid, then add 2 to the D6 roll. 
On a result of 1-3 they stand around trying to remember what it is 
they’re meant to be doing. The player can’t do anything for the 
turn, and the player’s team loses the declared Action for that turn 
(for example if a Really Stupid player declares a Blitz Action and 
fails the Really Stupid roll, then the team cannot declare another 
Blitz Action that turn). The player loses his tackle zones and may 
not catch, intercept or pass the ball, assist an-other player on a 
block or foul, or voluntarily move until he manages to roll a 
successful result for a Really Stupid roll at the start of a future 
Action or the drive ends.
Regeneration (Extraordinary)
If the player suffers a Casualty result on the Injury table, then roll 
a D6 for Regeneration after the roll on the Casualty table and 
after any Apothecary roll if allowed. On a result of 1- 3, the player 
suffers the result of this injury. On a 4-6, the player will heal the 
injury after a short period of time to 're-organise' himself, and is 
placed in the Reserves box instead. Regeneration rolls may not 
be re-rolled. Note that opposing players still earn Star Player 
points as normal for inflicting a Casualty result on a player with 
this skill, even if the result doesn't affect the player in the normal 
way.
Right Stuff (Extraordinary)
A player with the Right Stuff skill can be thrown by another player 
from his team who has the Throw Team-Mate skill. See the Throw 
Team-Mate skill entry below for details of how the player is 
thrown. When a player with this skill is thrown or fumbled and 
ends up in an unoccupied square, he must make a landing roll 
unless he landed on another player during the throw. A landing 
roll is an Agility roll with a -1 modifier for each opposing player’s 
tackle zone on the square he lands in. If he passes the roll he 
lands on his feet. If the landing roll is failed or he landed on 
another player during the throw he is Placed Prone and must 
pass an Armour roll to avoid injury. If the player is not injured 
during his landing he may take an Action later this turn if he has 
not already done so. A failed landing roll or landing in the crowd 
does not cause a turnover, unless he was holding the ball.

Safe Throw (Passing)
This player is an expert at throwing the ball in a way so as to 
make it even more difficult for any opponent to intercept it. If a 
pass made by this player is ever intercepted then the Safe Throw 
player may make an unmodified Agility roll. If this is successful 
then the interception is cancelled out 
and the passing sequence continues as normal. In addition if this 
player fumbles a pass on any roll other than a natural 1 then he 
manages to keep hold of the ball instead of suffering a fumble 
and the team does not suffer a turnover.
Secret Weapon (Extraordinary)
Some players are armed with special pieces of equipment that 
are called ‘secret weapons’. Although the Blood Bowl rules 
specifically ban the use of any weapons, the game has a long 
history of teams trying to get weapons of some sort onto the pitch. 
Nonetheless, the use of secret weapons is simply not legal, and 
referees have a nasty habit of sending off players that use them. 
Once a drive ends that this player has played in at any point, the 
referee orders the player to be sent off to the dungeon to join 
players that have been caught committing fouls during the match 
regardless of whether the player is still on the pitch or not.
Shadowing (General)
The player may use this skill when a player performing an Action 
on the opposing team moves out of any of his tackle zones for 
any reason. The opposing player rolls 2D6 adding their own 
player’s movement allowance and subtracting the Shadowing 
player's movement allowance from the score. If the final result is 
7 or less, the player with Shadowing may move into the square 
vacated by the opposing player. He does not have to make any 
Dodge rolls when he makes this move, and it has no effect on his 
own movement in his own turn. If the final result is 8 or more, the 
opposing player successfully avoids the Shadowing player and 
the Shadowing player is left standing. A player may make any 
number of shadowing moves per turn. If a player has left the 
tackle zone of several players that have the Shadowing skill, then 
only one of the opposing players may attempt to shadow him.
Side Step (Agility)
A player with this skill is an expert at stepping neatly out of the 
way of an attacker. To represent this ability, his coach may 
choose which square the player is moved to when he is pushed 
back, rather than the opposing coach. Furthermore, the coach 
may choose to move the player to any adjacent square, not just 
the three squares shown on the Push Back diagram. Note that 
the player may not use this skill if there are no open squares on 
the pitch adjacent to this player. Note that the coach may choose 
which square the player is moved to even if the player is Knocked 
Down after the push back.
Sneaky Git (Agility)
This player has the quickness and finesse to stick the boot to a 
downed opponent without drawing a referee's attention unless he 
hears the armour crack. During a Foul Action a player with this 
skill is not ejected for rolling doubles on the Armour roll unless the 
Armour roll was successful.
Sprint (Agility)
The player may attempt to move up to three extra squares rather 
than the normal two when Going For It. His coach must still roll to 
see if the player is Knocked Down in each extra square he enters.
Stab (Extraordinary)
A player with this skill is armed with something very good at 
stabbing, slashing or hacking up an opponent, like sharp fangs or 
a trusty dagger. This player may attack an opponent with their 
stabbing attack instead of throwing a block at them. Make an 
unmodified Armour roll (except for Stakes) for the victim. If the 
score is less than or equal to the victim’s Armour value then the 
attack has no effect. If the score beats the victim’s Armour value 
then they have been wounded and an Injury roll must be made. 
This Injury roll should ignore all modifiers from any source - 
including Niggling injuries. If Stab is used as part of a Blitz Action, 
the player cannot continue moving after using it. Casualties 
caused by a stabbing attack do not count for Star Player points.
Stakes (Extraordinary)
This player is armed with special stakes that are blessed to cause 
extra damage to the Undead and those that work with them. This 
player may add 1 to the Armour roll when they make a Stab 
attack against any player playing for a Khemri, Necromantic, 
Undead or Vampire team.
Stand Firm (Strength)
A player with this skill may choose to not be pushed back as the 
result of a block. He may choose to ignore being pushed by 
‘Pushed’ results, and to have 'Knock -down' results knock the 
player down in the square where he started. If a player is pushed 
back into a player with using Stand Firm then neither player 
moves.
Strip Ball (General)
When a player with this skill blocks an opponent with the ball, 
applying a ‘Pushed’ or ‘Defender Stumbles’ result will cause the 
opposing player to drop the ball in the square that they are 
pushed to, even if the opposing player is not Knocked Down.
Strong Arm (Strength)
The player may add 1 to the D6 when he passes to Short, Long 
or Long Bomb range.
Stunty (Extraordinary)
The player is so small that they are very difficult to tackle because 
they can duck underneath opposing players’ outstretched arms 
and run between their legs. On the other hand, Stunty players are 
just a bit too small to throw the ball very well, and are easily 
injured. To represent these things a player with the Stunty skill 
may ignore any enemy tackle zones on the square he is moving 
to when he makes a Dodge roll (i.e., they always end up with a +1 
Dodge roll modifier), but must subtract 1 from the roll when they 
pass. In addition, this player treats a roll of 7 and 9 on the Injury 
table after any modifiers have been applied as a KO'd and Badly 
Hurt result respectively rather than the normal results. Stunties 
that are armed with a Secret Weapon are not allowed to ignore 
enemy tackle zones, but still suffer the other penalties.
Sure Feet (Agility)
The player may re-roll the D6 if he is Knocked Down when trying 
to Go For It. A player may only use the Sure Feet skill once per 
Sure Hands (General)
A player with the Sure Hands skill is allowed to re-roll the D6 if he 
fails to pick up the ball. In addition, the Strip Ball skill will not work 
against a player with this skill.

Swoop (Extraordinary)
The player is equipped with a rudimentary set of wings, either 
natural or engineered, allowing them to glide through the air 
(rather than plummeting gracelessly) if they are thrown by a 
team-mate. If a player with Swoop is thrown by a player with the 
Throw Team-mate skill, the Throw-in template is used instead of 
the Scatter template to see where they land. Each time the player 
scatters, their coach places the Throw-in template over the player 
facing up or down the pitch or towards either sideline. Then they 
roll a D6 and move the player one square in the indicated 
direction. In addition, when rolling to see whether the player lands 
on their feet (as per the Right Stuff skill), add 1 to the result. 
When a player with both the Swoop and Stunty skills dodges, 
they do not ignore any modifiers for enemy tackle zones on the 
square they are moving to - the presence of a large pair of wings 
negates any benefit they would gain from being small and 
slippery.
Tackle (General)
Opposing players who are standing in any of this player’s tackle 
zones are not allowed to use their Dodge skill if they attempt to 
dodge out of any of the player’s tackle zones, nor may they use 
their Dodge skill if the player throws a block at them and uses the 
Tackle skill.
Take Root (Extraordinary)
Immediately after declaring an Action with this player, roll a D6. 
On a 2 or more, the player may take his Action as normal. On a 1, 
the player “takes root”, and his MA is considered 0 until a drive 
ends, or he is Knocked Down or Placed Prone (and no, players 
from his own team may not try and block him in order to try to 
knock him down!) . A player that has taken root may not Go For It, 
be pushed back for any reason, or use any skill that would allow 
him to move out of his current square or be Placed Prone. The 
player may block adjacent players without following-up as part of 
a Block Action however if a player fails his Take Root roll as part 
of a Blitz Action he may not block that turn (he can still roll to 
stand up if he is Prone).
Tentacles (Mutation)
The player may attempt to use this skill when an opposing player 
attempts to dodge or leap out of any of his tackle zones. The 
opposing player rolls 2D6 adding their own player’s ST and 
subtracting the Tentacles player's ST from the score. If the final 
result is 5 or less, then the moving player is held firm, and his 
action ends immediately. If a player attempts to leave the tackle 
zone of several players that have the Tentacles ability, then only 
one of the opposing players may attempt to grab him with the 
tentacles.
Thick Skull (Strength)
This player treats a roll of 8 on the Injury table, after any modifiers 
have been applied, as a Stunned result rather than a KO’d result. 
This skill may be used even if the player is Prone or Stunned.
Throw Team-Mate (Extraordinary)
A player with this skill has the ability to throw a player from the 
same team instead of the ball! (This includes the ball if the player 
thrown already has it!) The player throwing must end the 
movement of his Pass Action standing next to the intended 
team-mate to be thrown, who must have the Right Stuff skill and 
be standing. The pass is worked out exactly the same as the 
player with Throw Team-Mate passing a ball, except the player 
must subtract 1 from the D6 roll when he passes the player, 
fumbles are not automatically turnovers, and Long Pass or Long 
Bomb range passes are not possible. In addition, accurate 
passes are treated instead as inaccurate passes thus scattering 
the player three times as players are heavier and harder to pass 
than a ball. The thrown player cannot be intercepted. A fumbled 
team-mate will land in the square he originally occupied. If the 
thrown player scatters off the pitch, he is beaten up by the crowd 
in the same manner as a player who has been pushed off the 
pitch. If the final square he scatters into is occupied by another 
player, treat the player landed on as Knocked Down and roll for 
Armour (even if already Prone or Stunned), and then the player 
being thrown will scatter one more square. If the thrown player 
would land on another player, continue to scatter the thrown 
player until he ends up in an empty square or off the pitch (i.e. he 
cannot land on more than one player). See the Right Stuff entry to 
see if the player lands on his feet or head-down in a crumpled 
heap!
Timmm-ber! (Extraordinary)
This player spends so much time on the floor that their 
team-mates have developed a knack for helping them up. If a 
player with this skill attempts to stand up after being knocked 
over, other players from their team can assist if they are adjacent, 
standing and not in any enemy tackle zones. Each player that 
assists in this way adds 1 to the result of the dice roll to see 
whether the player stands up, but remember that a 1 is always a 
failure, no matter how many players are helping! Assisting a 
player to stand up does not count as an Action, and a player can 
assist regardless of whether they have taken an Action.
Titchy (Extraordinary)
Titchy players tend to be even smaller and more nimble than 
other Stunty players. To represent this, the player may add 1 to 
any Dodge roll he attempts. On the other hand, while opponents 
do have to dodge to leave any of a Titchy player’s tackle zones, 
Titchy players are so small that they do not exert a -1 modifier 
when opponents dodge into any of their tackle zones.
Two Heads (Mutation)
Having two heads enables this player to watch where he is going 
and the opponent trying to make sure he does not get there at the 
same time. Add 1 to all Dodge rolls the player makes.
Weeping Dagger (Extraordinary)
This player keeps a warpstone-tainted dagger hidden in their kit, 
and is an expert at keeping it out of the referee’s sight! If this 
player inflicts a casualty during a block, and the result of the 
Casualty roll is 11-38 (Badly Hurt) after any re-rolls, roll a D6. On 
a result of 4 or more, the opposing player must miss their next 
game. If you are not playing a league, a Weeping Dagger has no 
effect on the game.
Very Long Legs (Mutation)
The player is allowed to add 1 to the D6 roll whenever he 
attempts to intercept or uses the Leap skill. In addition, the Safe 
Throw skill may not be used to affect any Interception rolls made 
by this player.

Wild Animal (Extraordinary)
Wild Animals are uncontrollable creatures that rarely do exactly 
what a coach wants of them. In fact, just about all you can really 
rely on them to do is lash out at opposing players that move too 
close to them! To represent this, immediately after declaring an 
Action with a Wild Animal, roll a D6, adding 2 to the roll if taking a 
Block or Blitz Action. On a roll of 1-3, the Wild Animal does not 
move and roars in rage instead, and the Action is wasted.
Wrestle (General)
The player is specially trained in grappling techniques. This player 
may use Wrestle when he blocks or is blocked and a ‘Both Down’ 
result on the Block dice is chosen by either coach. Instead of 
applying the 'Both Down' result, both players are wrestled to the 
ground. Both players are Placed Prone in their respective squares 
even if one or both have the Block skill. Do not make Armour rolls 
for either player. Use of this skill does not cause a turnover unless 
the active player was holding the ball.

CHAOS CHOSEN TEAMS
Chaos teams are not noted for the subtlety or originality of their game play. A simple drive up the
centre of the pitch, maiming and injuring as many opposing players as possible, is about the limit of
their game plan. They rarely, if ever, worry about such minor considerations like picking up the ball and
scoring touchdowns – not while there are any players left alive on the opposing team, anyway.
Beastmen
8 Horns
Chaos Warriors 100’000 5
150’000 5
SM
Star Players: Max Spleenripper (130k), Lewdgrip Whiparm (150k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Brick 
Far’th & Grotty (290k), Lord Borak the Despoiler (300k), Grashnak Blackhoof (310k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
BRETONNIA TEAMS
In the fair land of Bretonnia, arrogant Bretonnian nobles and their yeomen are questing for the Holy Grail, 
the Bloodweiser trophy. Convinced of their own skills, the young knights fill out their teams with lineman levy, 
drafted from the many local and incompetent all-peasant teams.
7 Fend
Blockers
8 Wrestle
8 Block, Catch, Dauntless
0-8 Re-rolls: 70’000 gold pieces each
Star Players:Dolfar Longstride (150k), Willow Rosebark (150k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Mighty Zug 
(260k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Griff Oberwald (320k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
TEAM ROSTERS
The following pages list the 23 official races for the game. In addition there are Slann (LRB6), Savage Orcs (My Dugout App), 
Human Nobility (My Dugout App), Dwarf Slayer Hold (My Dugout App), Skaven Vermin Pestilent (My Dugout App) and Bretonnia 
(Cyanide’s digital BB2). Qty indicates the number of that position that you may have on your team. Double indicates the additional 
skill categories to those in the Normal column available to choose a skill from on a double skill roll. For the Normal and Double 
column, G = General skills, A = Agility skills, S = Strength skills, P = Passing skills, and M = Mutation skills.
Designer's Note: Some of the above 21 teams are more challenging than the others to play either because of their skills requiring 
advanced strategies to be effective or because they have difficulty winning. These teams have been designed this way on purpose to 
give challenges to coaches who master the basics of Blood Bowl. These more challenging teams are: Chaos, Dark Elf, Goblin, 
Halfling, Khemri, Nurgle, Ogre and Vampire. Coaches should be aware that these are considered teams for more advanced players 
and can be confusing or difficult to use if you are new to the game.
AMAZON TEAMS
Long ago, driven by a desire for adventure, the Valkyries of the Norse settlement in Lustria sailed
away from their men-folk and founded a colony deep within the estuary of the river Amazon. Now
these ferocious warriors have taken to the Blood Bowl pitch – and Nuffle save those who dare play against 
them!
Linewomen
7 Dodge, Pass
7 Dodge, Catch
7 Dodge, Block
Star Players:Helmut Wulf (110k), Willow Rosebark (150k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Karla von Kill 
(220k), Roxanna Darknail (250k), Bertha Bigfist (290k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)

CHAOS DWARF TEAMS
Chaos Dwarfs are the twisted descendants of Dwarf explorers who have been terribly affected by the
forces of Chaos, turning them into evil, self-centred creatures. In one way, however, they haven’t
changed at all – they still love playing Blood Bowl! Chaos Dwarfs are not very numerous and make
great use of sneaky Hobgoblin slaves to perform all kinds of tasks, including playing on their Blood
Bowl teams.
Hobgoblins
Chaos Dwarves
9 Block, Tackle, Thick Skull
Bull Centaurs
9 Sprint, Sure Feet, Thick Skull
0-8 Re-rolls: 70’000 gold pieces each
Star Players: Zzharg Madeye (90k), Nobbla Blackwart (130k), Rashnak Backstabber (200k), Grak and 
Crumbleberry (210k), Grashnak Blackhoof (310k), Hthark the Unstoppable (330k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
DARK ELF TEAMS
Evil beyond belief, skilled without doubt, the Dark Elves take to the pitch to show the world their
superiority. Dark Elf teams prefer a malevolent and spiteful running game over the passing of their
goodly cousins. Backed up by the ruthless Witch Elves and dangerous assassins, a Dark Elf team has
all the tools to power through rather than around any opposition line.
7 Dump-Off
Assassins
7 Shadowing, Stab
100’000 7
Which Elves
7 Frenzy, Dodge, Jump Up
0-
0-
Star Players: Eldril Sidewinder (200k), Horkon Heartripper (210k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Ithaca 
Benoin (220k), Roxanna Darknail (250k), Hubris Rakarth (260k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k) 
DWARF TEAMS
Dwarfs seem to be ideal Blood Bowl players, being compact, tough, well-armoured and having a
stubborn knack of refusing to die! Most successful Dwarf teams work to the principle that if they can
take out all the other team’s potential scorers, and wear down the rest, then there won’t be anybody left to 
stop them scoring the winning touchdowns!
Blockers
9 Block, Tackle, Thick Skull
8 Sure Hands, Thick Skull
9 Block, Thick Skull
Troll Slayers
8 Block, Dauntless, Frenzy, Thick Skull
Deathroller
160’000 4
10 Loner, Break Tackle, Dirty Player, 
Juggernaut, Mighty Blow, No Hands, 
Secret Weapon, Stand Firm
Star Players: Barik Farblast (60k), Boomer Eziasson (60k), Flint Churnblade (130k), Grak and Crumbleberry 
(210k), Grim Ironjaw (220k), Grobrik Orcbiter (250k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)

DWARF SLAYER HOLD TEAMS
Beast Slayers
7 Dauntless, Thick Skull
Troll Slayers
8 Block, Dauntless, Frenzy, Thick Skull
Skaven Slayers
9 Break Tackle, Frenzy, Nerves of Steel, 
Dragon Slayers 170’000 5
9 Block, Juggernaut, Dauntless, Stand 
Firm, Thick Skull
Star Players: Barik Farblast (60k), Boomer Eziasson (60k), Flint Churnblade (130k), Grak and Crumbleberry 
(210k), Grim Ironjaw (220k), Grobrik Orcbiter (250k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducement: 0-1 Runesmith (30k)
ELF UNION TEAMS
When the NAF collapsed, many Elven teams were left penniless. Those teams that have survived the fallout 
are not as rich as the High Elf teams nor as well equipped, but they sure know how to play the game. 
Sporting facemasks and mohawks, they take to the pitch to relive the glory days they once played in.
7 Pass
100’000 8
7 Catch, Nerves of Steel
8 Block, Side Step
Star Players: Dolfar Longstride (150k), Eldril Sidewinder (200k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Prince 
Moranion (230k), Hubris Rakarth (260k), Jordell Freshbreeze (260k), The Swift Twins (390k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg 
(430k)
GOBLIN TEAMS
A Goblin team’s game plan owes much more to hope than potential. Goblins can make quite good
catchers because they are small and agile, but the art of throwing is sadly lost to them, while the
chances of their blocking anything larger than a Halfling are remote to say the least. Still, this never
seems to bother Goblin players, and occasionally the use of a particularly devious secret weapon will
even allow a Goblin team to win a match.
7 Dodge, Right Stuff, Stunty
Bomma
7 Bombardier, Dodge, Secret Weapon, 
Looney
7 Chainsaw, Secret Weapon, Stunty
Fanatic
7 Ball & Chain, No Hands, Secret 
Weapon, Stunty
Doom Diver
7 Right Stuff, Stunty, Swoop
Pogoer
7 Dodge, Leap, Stunty, Very Long Legs
‘Ooligan
70’0000 6
7 Disturbing Presence, Dodge, Fan 
Favourite, Right Stuff, Stunty
Trolls
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Fungus the Loon (80k), Nobbla Blackwart (130k), 
Scrappa Sorehead (150k), Madcap Miggz (170k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Ripper (270k), 
Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducements: Bribe (50k)

HIGH ELF TEAMS
The Elven Kingdom sponsored High Elf teams, feature a dangerous passing game and some of the
most arrogant players you will find. Rich beyond the dreams of most teams, the High Elves often
feature many Princes and noble born Elves on the team and what they cannot beat, they'll buy.
8 Pass, Safe Throw
7 Catch
100’000 7
Star Players: Dolfar Longstride (150k), Bo Gallanté (160k), Soaren Hightower (180k), Eldril Sidewinder 
(200k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Prince Moranion (230k), Zara the Slayer (270k), The Swift Twins 
(390k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
HALFLING TEAMS
The technical deficiency of Halfling teams is legendary. They’re too short to throw or catch, they run at
half pace, and the whole team can spend all afternoon trying to block an Ogre without any chance of
success. Most Halfling coaches try to make up for quality with quantity. After all, if you can get half a
dozen players in the opposing team’s End Zone and, by some miracle, manage to end up with the ball,
then there is a small chance that one or two of them won’t be jelly by the time you throw the thing.
Halflings
6 Dodge, Right Stuff, Stunty
Treemen
120’000 2
10 Mighty Blow, Stand Firm, Strong Arm, 
take Root, Thick Skull, Throw 
Team-Mate, Timmm-ber!
Star Players: Puggy Baconbreath (140k), Willow Rosebark (150k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Karla von 
Kill (220k), Deeproot Strongbranch (300k), Bertha Bigfist (290k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg 
(430k)
Inducements: Halfling Master Chef (150k)
HUMAN TEAMS
Although Human teams do not have the individual strengths or outstanding abilities available to
other races, they do not suffer from any outstanding weakness either. This makes Human
teams extremely flexible, equally at home running the ball, passing it, or ignoring it and
pounding the opposition into the turf instead!
7 Catch, Dodge
8 Sure Hands, Pass
Ogre
9 Loner, Bone-head, Mighty Blow, Thick 
Skull, Throw Team-Mate
Star Players: Helmut Wulf (110k), Puggy Baconbreath (140k), Heinrich von Duisgart (140k), 
Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Karla von Kill (220k), Mighty Zug (260k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Griff 
Oberwald (320k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducements: Master of Ballistics (30k)
HUMAN NOBILITY TEAMS
Retainers
8 Fend
8 Pass
Body Guards
8 Block, Guard
Princelings
7 Catch, Dodge, Pro
Ogres
9 Loner, Bone-Head, Mighty Blow, Thick 
Skull, Throw Team-Mate
Star Players: Helmut Wulf (110k), Puggy Baconbreath (140k), Heinrich von Duisgart (140k), 
Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Karla von Kill (220k), Mighty Zug (260k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Griff 
Oberwald (320k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducements: 0-1 Master of Ballistics (30k)

KHEMRI TEAMS
Over 8,000 years ago, the Khemri played the first games of Blood Bowl against the Slann. But, as the
Kingdom died off, so did the game until its rediscovery. And as the game returned, it was inevitable
that the ancient players and stars of the Khemri would return to the pitch they once played on.
Skeletons
7 Regeneration, Thick Skull
Thro-Ras
7 Pass, Regeneration, Sure Hands
Blitz-Ras
0-4 Tomb Guardians 100’000 4
9 Decay, Regeneration
Star Players: Sinnedbad (80k), Hack Enslash (120k), Humerus Carpal (130k), Grak and Crumbleberry 
(210k), Ithaca Benoin (220k), Setekh (220k), Ramtut III (380k)
LIZARDMEN TEAMS
The Mage-Priests foretold the game of Blood Bowl thousands of years before it was discovered by the
Dwarf Roze-El. So it is no surprise that the Lizardmen play Blood Bowl. Providing an odd blend of
dexterity and strength, the Lustrian team can almost last the distance against a power team such as
Chaos, while remaining able to pull off the running plays of the Skaven.
Skinks
7 Dodge, Stunty
Saurus
Kroxigor
140’000 6
9 Loner, Bone-head, Mighty Blow, 
Prehensile Tail, Thick Skull
Star Players: Helmut Wulf (110k), Hemlock (170k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Lottabottol (220k), 
Quetzal Leap (250k), Slibli (250k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
NECROMANTIC TEAMS
The damned and the cursed do not always lurk in the forests or in the graveyards of the Old World.
Sometimes they come together, forming a group to hunt those more fortunate of souls. Finding relief
in crazed outbursts of terrible violence, these groups do the best they can to ease their suffering -
they pop off for a nice game of Blood Bowl.
Zombies
8 Regeneration
Ghouls
Wights
Flesh Golems
9 Regeneration, Stand Firm, Thick Skull
Werewolves
120’000 8
8 Claws, Frenzy, Regeneration
Star Players: Hack Enslash (120k), J Earlice (180k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Setekh (220k), Wilhelm 
Chaney (240k), Ramtut III (380k), Count Luthor von Drakenborg (390k) 
KHORNE TEAMS
Khorne is known to be the most violent of the Chaos Gods and Khorne Blood Bowl teams reflect perfectly 
the nature of their master. These players are the biggest psychopaths on the field and people often wonder if 
they play the game or are just there to beat and kill their opponents in order to gather more casualties for 
Their master, the Lord of Skulls.
Pit Fighters
Bloodletters
7 Horns, Juggernaut, Regeneration
Khorne Heralds
8 Frenzy, Horns, Juggernaut
Bloodthirster
180’000 6
9 Loner, Claw, Frenzy, Horns, Juggernaut, 
Regeneration, Wild Animal
Star Players: Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Grashnak Blackhoof (310k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)

NURGLE TEAMS
Nurgle teams are a form of Chaos team whose players worship the god Nurgle. Nurgle is the Chaos
god of corruption and disease, and he rewards his players by granting them a rather unpleasant
disease known as Nurgle’s Rot. The fact that Nurgle teams smell awful is assumed rather than proven.
True, they are all made up of semi decomposed flesh surrounded by swarms of flies, but by the time
anyone gets close enough to get a really accurate whiff, he has inevitably caught one of Nurgle’s nasty
diseases, and he usually dies before he can suggest a new personal hygiene regime.
Rotters
8 Decay, Nurgle’s Rot
Pestigors
8 Horns, Nurgle’s Rot, Regeneration
Nurgle Warriors 110’000 4
9 Disturbing Presence, Foul Appearance, 
Nurgle’s Rot, Regeneration
Beast Of Nurgle 140’000 4
9 Loner, Disturbing Presence, Foul 
Appearance, Nurgle’s Rot, Really 
Stupid, Regeneration, Tentacles
Star Players: Max Spleenripper (130k), Lewdgrip Whiparm (150k), Guffle Pushmaw (210k), 
Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Brick Far’th & Grotty (290k), Lord Borak the Despoiler (300k), 
Grashnak Blackhoof (310k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
OGRE TEAMS
Ogre teams have existed since the forming of the NAF and have even had some success such
as winning the XV Blood Bowl. However, as any right-minded person will tell you, having more than
one Ogre in the same place at the same time is a disaster in the making. The key to an Ogre team
is the Snotlings. If they are close enough to jab an Ogre in the leg to remind him that they are
playing in a match then you may have the makings of a team.
Snotlings
20'000
5 Dodge, Right Stuff, Side Step, Stunty, 
Titchy
Ogres
9 Bone-head, Mighty Blow, Thick Skull, 
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Nobbla Blackwart (130k), Scrappa Sorehead (150k), Grak and 
Crumbleberry (210k), Bertha Bigfist (290k), Brick Far’th & Grotty (290k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
NORSE TEAMS
Norse teams have a well deserved reputation for ferocity both on and off the playing pitch. The Norse
that takes up Blood Bowl is a truly unedifying specimen, interested only in beer, women and song off
the playing pitch, and beer, women and bloody carnage while on it!
7 Block
7 Block, Pass
7 Block, Dauntless
Berserkers
7 Block, Frenzy, Jump Up
Ulfwerener
110’000 6
Yhetee
8 Loner, Claws, Disturbing Presence, 
Frenzy, Wild Animal
Star Players: Boomer Eziasson (60k), Helmut Wulf (110k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Karla von Kill 
(220k), Wilhelm Chaney (240k), Zara the Slayer (270k), Icepelt Hammerblow (330k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)

SAVAGE ORC TEAMS
8 Frenzy, Nerves of Steel, Pass
Brutes
8 Thick Skull
8 Frenzy, Block
Swamp Troll
130’000 5
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Ugroth Bolgrot (100k), Scrappa Sorehead (150k), Grut Gitgobbla 
(200k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Ripper (270k), Varag Ghoul-Chewer (290k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducements: 0-1 Whaaagh! Drummer (50k)
SKAVEN TEAMS
They may not be all that strong, they certainly aren’t tough, but boy oh boy are Skaven fast! Many an 
opponent has been left in the starting blocks as fast-moving Skaven players scamper through a gap in the 
line and run in for a lightning fast touchdown.
ASPM
7 Pass, Sure Hands
ASM
Gutter Runners
7 Dodge, Weeping Blade
SPM
Rat Ogre
150’000 6
8 Loner, Frenzy, Mighty Blow, Prehensile 
Tail, Wild Animal
Star Players: Fezglitch (100k), Kreek Rustouger (130k), Skitter Stab-Stab (160k), Grak and Crumbleberry 
(210k), Glart Smashrip (190k), Glart Smashrip Jr. (210k), Hakflem Skuttlespike (200k), Headsplitter (340k), 
Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
SKAVEN: PESTILENT VERMIN TEAM
Spread glorious contagion with the new Pestilent Vermin team.
Novitiates
7 Disturbing Presence
Pox-flingers
7 Bombardier, Pass, Secret Weapon
ASM
Poison-keepers 100’000 8
7 Dodge, Stab
SPM
Cardinals
8 Block, Horns
Rat Ogre
150’000 6
8 Loner, Frenzy, Mighty Blow, Prehensile 
Tail, Wild Animal
Star Players: Fezglitch (100k), Kreek Rustouger (130k), Skitter Stab-Stab (160k), Grak and Crumbleberry 
(210k), Glart Smashrip (190k), Glart Smashrip Jr. (210k), Hakflem Skuttlespike (200k), Headsplitter (340k), 
Buboe Festerspit (350k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducement: 0-1 Warlock Engineer (120k)
ORC TEAMS
Orcs have been playing Blood Bowl since the game was invented, and Orc teams such as the Gouged
Eye and Severed Heads are amongst the best in the league. Orc teams are tough and hard-hitting, grinding 
down the opposition’s line to create gaps for their excellent Orc Blitzers to exploit.
7 Right Stuff, Dodge, Stunty
8 Sure Hands, Pass
Black Orcs
9 Block
Troll
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Ugroth Bolgrot (100k), Scrappa Sorehead (150k), Grut Gitgobbla 
(200k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Ripper (270k), Varag Ghoul-Chewer (290k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
Inducements: Whaaagh! Drummer (50k)

VAMPIRE TEAMS
Although Vampire teams include a number of extremely capable players, they are let down by the
unreliability of the Vampires. While they should be concentrating on the game, their attention often
wanders to their hunger and before you know it they are off for a quick bite!
Thralls
Vampires
110’000 6
8 Blood Lust, Hypnotic Gaze, 
Regeneration
Star Players: Helmut Wulf (110k), Crazy Igor (120k), J Earlice (180k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), 
Wilhelm Chaney (240k), Count Luthor von Drakenborg (390k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
WOOD ELF TEAMS
For Wood Elves the Long pass is everything, even more so than their High Elf cousins, and all of their
effort goes into being an expert at throwing or receiving. No Wood Elf worth his salt is going to be weighed 
down by extra Armour and be forced to lurk about, attempting to knock opposing players over. Instead they 
rely on their natural athletic ability to keep them out of trouble, which is normally enough – it takes a very 
agile or lucky opponent to lay a hand on a Wood Elf!
7 Catch, Dodge, Sprint
7 Pass
Wardancers
120’000 8
7 Block, Dodge, Leap
Treeman
120’000 2
10 Loner, Mighty Blow, Stand Firm, Strong 
Arm, Take Root, Thick Skull, Throw 
Star Players: Willow Rosebark (150k), Dolfar Longstride (150k), Eldril Sidewinder (200k), Grak and 
Crumbleberry (210k), Jordell Freshbreeze (260k), Zara the Slayer (270k), The Swift Twins (390k), Morg ‘n’ 
Thorg (430k)
UNDEAD TEAMS
In the Old World the dead do not rest easy. Vampires lurk in haunted castles, Necromancers seek to
escape death by searching for forbidden knowledge, the Liche-lords rule over legions of corpses, and
on the Blood Bowl field players who died long ago return to the scenes of their former glory and play
Blood Bowl once again…
Skeletons
7 Regeneration, Thick Skull
Zombies
8 Regeneration
Ghouls
Wights
Mummies
120’000 3
9 Mighty Blow, Regeneration
Star Players: Sinnedbad (80k), Hack Enslash (120k), J Earlice (180k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), 
Setekh (220k), Ramtut III (380k), Count Luthor von Drakenborg (390k)

UNDERWORLD TEAMS
On occasion Skaven and Goblins living in the tunnels and mountains of the Old World join together to
form Blood Bowl teams. These teams often have very poor records as they spend most of their time in-
fighting and blaming each other for their failures. The one advantage they do have, however, is that all their 
players sleep, eat, and breath and occasionally bathe in Warpstone. While this kills off most of the
potential players before they ever join a team, the ones that do survive often develop fascinating mutations.
Underworld 
7 Right Stuff, Dodge, Stunty
AM
0-2 Skaven Linemen 50’000
7 Animosity
0-2 Skaven Throwers 70’000
7 Animosity, Pass, Sure Hands
GPM
Skaven Blitzers
8 Animosity, Block
Warpstone Troll 110’000 4
SM
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Fezglitch (80k), Kreek Rustouger (130k), Nobbla Blackwart (130k), 
Skitter Stat-Stab (160k), Madcap Miggz (170k), Glart Smashrip (190k), Glart Smashrup Jr. (200k), Grak and 
Crumbleberry (210k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
SLANN TEAMS
The Slann are ancient race of space travellers stranded on the Blood Bowl world many ages ago. After 
realizing that rescue was never coming they settled down and began ordering Lizardmen around. While
most Slann prefer to become fat and lazy while attended to by their throngs of Lizardmen servants, a few of 
younger and more energetic members enjoy travelling to the Old World and playing Blood Bowl. While
the Slann have no passing game to speak of, their ability to leap, dive, and intercept are second to none.
Lineman
8 Leap, Very Long Legs
7 Diving Catch, Leap, Very Long Legs
8 Diving Tackle, Jump Up, Leap, Very 
Long Legs
Kroxigor
140’000 6
9 Loner, Bone-head, Mighty Blow, 
Prehensile Tail, Thick Skull
Star Players: Helmut Wulf (110k), Hemlock (170k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Lottabottol (220k), 
Quetzal Leap (250k), Slibli (250k), Morg ‘n’ Thorg (430k)
CHAOS RENEGADES
Chaos Renegade teams are a mix of evil and chaotic races. Human Marauders are young on the path of 
Chaos and full of potential, but must be guided to fill the needs of the team. With such a mix of races 
animosity can easily become a problem and it is rare to see a well organized and effective Chaos 
Renegade team.
MA ST AG AV Skills
0-12
Human Renegade
GSPM
Goblin Renegade
7 Animosity, Dodge, Right Stuff, Stunty
AM
Orc Renegade
9 Animosity
Skaven Renegade
7 Animosity
Dark Elf Renegade
8 Animosity
GAM
Chaos Troll
Team-mate
Chaos Ogre
9 Loner, Bone-head, Mighty Blow, Thick 
Skull, Throw Team-mate
Star Players: Bomber Dribblesnot (60k), Zzharg Madeye (60k), Ugroth Bolgrot (100k), Helmut Wulf 110k), 
Crazy Igor (130k), Lewdgrip Whiparm (150k), Guffle Pushmaw (210k), Grak and Crumbleberry (210k), Morg 
‘n’ Thorg (450k)

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
Q. Can you use the Pass skill to re-roll a fumbled Hail Mary 
Pass?
Q. Do tackle zones or Disturbing Presence affect a Hail Mary 
Pass roll?
A. No, nothing modifies a Hail Mary Pass roll – it always 
succeeds on a 2+ and fails on a 1.
Q. Do I have to make another Dauntless or Foul Appearance roll
on the second block of a Frenzy, or do I stick with whatever I
rolled before the first block?
A. Yes, you must make a second roll for both of these skills,
regardless of what you rolled for either before the first block.
Q. If I re-roll a block that my player throws, do I need to re-roll
Dauntless or Foul Appearance as well?
A. No, a re-roll affects only one result. The Dauntless or Foul
Appearance roll is a separate result from the block.
Q. If I have a player with Pass Block, and they blitz or block an
opponent with Dump-Off, can my player use Pass Block to move
after the opponent declares their use of Dump-Off?
A. No, once a block is declared as part of a Block or Blitz Action,
you must attempt to complete it before moving again.
Q. Can my player use Stab instead of throwing a block after
failing a Dauntless roll?
A. No – once you roll the dice to use Dauntless, you have actually
already declared you are throwing a block and as such you 
cannot switch to using Stab instead.
Q. Can my player use Stab with Multiple Block?
A. Yes, they can use Stab to replace either one or both of the 
blocks when using the Multiple Block skill.
Q. When do I declare the second opponent for a Multiple Block?
A. You may declare the second opponent after the first block has
been completed.
Q. If a player has MA 1 or MA 2, can they still move 3 squares
when using the Pass Block skill?
A. Yes, Pass Block allows you to move up to 3 squares, and no
more, even if your MA is less than 3.
Q. Can a player using the Pass Block skill Go For It (GFI) or 
stand up from being Prone? Which skills can a player use during 
the movement part of a Pass Block?
A. A player cannot GFI during a Pass Block which means that
Sure Feet and Sprint cannot be used. In addition, a player can 
only stand up at the beginning of an Action; since Pass Block is 
NOT an Action, they cannot stand up or use Jump Up when using 
the Pass Block skill. Other movement skills such as Break Tackle, 
Dodge, Leap, Stunty and Titchy can be used in conjunction with 
Pass Block.
Q. Can a player use Pass Block when an opposing player tries to
throw a team-mate holding the ball?
A. No
Q. Can a player attempt to intercept a pass that is made using the
Dump-Off skill?
Q. Can one of my players use the Pro skill during my opponent’s
turn, and if so, can they use a team re-roll to re-roll the Pro roll?
A. They can use the Pro skill during your opponent’s turn, but if
they do, they cannot use a team re-roll to re-roll the Pro roll (as
team re-rolls can only be used in your own turn).
Q. If my player with Strip Ball pushes an opposing player with the
ball into my end zone, do they score a Touchdown?
A. No, as stated in the rules, a player has to be standing and
holding a ball to score. With Strip Ball, they drop the ball, so this 
is not the case.
Q. If my player with Frenzy makes a block against an opponent
holding the ball, pushing them into my end zone, do they score
a touchdown, and if so, does my player still make a second block
against them?
A. In this case they would score a Touchdown, as they are 
standing and holding the ball. However, the Touchdown ends the 
drive, so the second block is not made.
Q. Can a player Go For It (GFI) in order to Leap?
A. Yes. Place the player in the square targeted by the Leap skill 
and then make the GFI roll (or rolls, if two are required). If you fail 
a GFI roll, knock the player down in the new square to which he 
was leaping. The opposing coach makes an Armour roll as usual.
Q. Is it an Illegal Procedure should you forget to roll for Blood
Lust, Bone-head, Wild Animal, Take Root or Really Stupid before
you move the player?
A. No, but your opponent will be sure to remind you if you forget!
It’s worth noting that wilfully forgetting to do this in order to gain
an advantage is just bad sportsmanship, and Nuffle loves nothing
more than cursing the dice rolls of such unscrupulous players.
Q. Players under influence of Bone-head, Really Stupid, or
Hypnotic Gaze cannot use skills that allow them to move
voluntarily. Which skills are not allowed to be used as they are
considered moving voluntarily?
A. Skills that allow you to leave your square without being forced
to leave your square in the first place. Diving Tackle, Pass Block,
and Shadowing.
Q. The Animosity skill refers to “any players on their team of a 
different race”, but Star Players don’t have a race listed. How 
does the skill interact with Star Players?
A. Players with Animosity never hate Star Players, regardless of 
their race. Their fame and celebrity is more than enough to make 
up for any ill will.

Kick-offs, Throw-ins and Passing
Q. In the description of the plastic range ruler, it says
“if the receiving player overlaps a boundary line between two
ranges on the ruler, use the longer of the two choices”, but this
seems to disagree with another text, which says “if the line 
between two passing ranges crosses any part of the receiving 
player’s square, the higher range should be used”. Which one 
matters – the player, or the player’s square?
A. As is always the case in Blood Bowl, it’s the square that 
matters – the player is always assumed to completely occupy 
their square, without overlapping. The description of the plastic 
range ruler is an overview of how the component works, but the 
rules for throwing the ball is a more detailed (and more specific) 
wording.
Q. When I use the throw-in template, does the square where
the Blood Bowl logo is centred count as the first square of the
distance that the ball is thrown, or is it placed there and then
moved 2D6 squares?
A. The square with the Blood Bowl logo over it counts as the first
square of the ball’s movement. So, if the result of the 2D6 roll was 
a 2, the ball would be placed in the square with the Blood Bowl 
logo over it, then move one square in the relevant direction.
Q. If a player fails to catch a ball from a kick-off, and the ball
bounces over the line of scrimmage, is it a touchback?
A. Yes, any event that causes the ball to go out of bounds or over
the line of scrimmage during a kick-off results in a touchback.
Q. Is a thrown ball or kick-off that scatters off the pitch thrown
back in by the crowd as soon as it leaves the pitch? Or do you 
track it all three squares and only throw it back if it finishes off the 
pitch?
A. You should stop rolling for a scattering ball as soon as it leaves
the pitch.
Q. What is the full Passing sequence when using all of the extra
rules, skills etc.?
A. Here it is.
 1. Declare a Pass Action, move the player if desired, and then
 start the throw.
 2. Declare the target of the pass and determine the range
 modifier.
 3. Opposing players with the Pass Block skill can move if any
 are eligible to do so.
 4. Check for interceptors and roll for possible interception.
 5. Make the throw roll, applying any modifiers.
 6. If the pass was fumbled, stop here and resolve the fumble.
 Otherwise, continue.
 7. If the throw is Accurate, go to step 8. Otherwise, scatter the
 ball three times. (Note the ball does not hit the ground until
 after the third scatter – it does not count as moving into the
 first two squares.
 8. If the ball lands in a square occupied by a standing player,
 make the Catch roll, applying any modifiers. Otherwise, the
 ball bounces.
Fouls
Q. If one of my fouling players is sent off because I roll a double
on the Armour roll, but the Armour roll beats the target’s AV,
do I still make the Injury roll, or does the Turnover prevent this
happening?
A. The Injury roll is still made, as it’s a direct consequence of the
successful Armour roll. If the Injury roll is still a double… well, 
they clearly deserved to get sent off, being as blatant as that.
Q. If a player is sent off, can you both Argue the Call and use a
Bribe? If so, in which order do you do them?
A. You can do both, in an order of your choice. For example, you
could attempt to Argue the Call, fail, then use a Bribe as a backup
option (in which case your Head Coach would still be ejected, but 
your player could be spared by the Bribe). Alternatively, you could 
attempt to use a Bribe, fail, then Argue the Call. It’s your choice!
Q. If a Head Coach successfully argues a call and a fouling player 
is sent to the Reserves box rather than being sent off, does the 
team still suffer a Turnover?
A. Yes, it does.
Special Play Cards
Q. Does the Magic Sponge special play card negate the effects of
the Casualty roll for the player it is used on?
A. No – it gives the player a very temporary reprieve from their
symptoms, but they’ll still be feeling it later! For example, if a 
player suffers an Injury and the roll on the Casualty table is 57 
(Broken Neck), and the Magic Sponge is then used to move them 
to the Reserves box, they still have -1 AG, and will still need to 
miss their next game. The sponge just gets them well enough to 
quit whining and get back on the field. If they suffer another injury, 
the results of the second Casualty roll apply as well – note, 
however, that a second “miss next game” result is not cumulative 
– there is only one “next game” to miss, after all.
Q. If a Special Play Card says it can be played at the beginning
of my turn can I play that at the beginning of a Blitz result on the
Kick-Off Table?
A. Yes
Q. Should players each have their own decks of Special Play 
Cards, or should they share a single set of decks?
A. It works either way, but we recommend that coaches draw 
from a single set of decks - in other words, there should only be 
one Miscellaneous Mayhem deck, one Random Events deck and 
so on. This prevents duplicate cards coming into play, which 
could cause some confusion!
Q. Is there a minimum size for a Special Play Cards deck?
A. As we’ve released exclusive individual cards (such as the 
Early Bird card that went out to people that pre-ordered the boxed 
game, or the cards that were available as part of the Blitzmania 
global league) it might be the case that you only have one or two 
cards for a particular deck. We recommend that coaches don’t 
use a Special Play Cards deck with fewer than 8 cards in it. If one 
coach has some exclusives and the other coach has the rest of 
the deck there’s no harm in combining them (and giving them a 
good shuffle, of course) as long as each coach gets their own 
cards back at the end of the game.
League Play – Friendly Games
Q. Like, what gives with Friendly Games, eh? Eh?
A. Put very simply, a Friendly is a game that is played either
against a team that is not in your league division, or against a
team in your division who you’ve already played twice. The only
differences between a Friendly game and a Competition Match
are. 1) There is no MVP awarded after a Friendly, 2) League 
points are not awarded after a Friendly, and 3) In a Friendly, the 
roll to determine the team’s Winnings uses a D3, not a D6. That’s 
it! You still record casualties and touchdowns, inducements still 
work the same, Injuries still apply as normal, and so on.

Q. In a Friendly game, do Deaths and other Casualty Table
injuries count permanently on a team or do the players just go
into the Dead and Injured box and not return for this game?
A. They do indeed count permanently – it might be a ‘friendly’, but 
this is still Blood Bowl!
Q. Are Star Player Points accrued in Friendly games?
A. They are! Players can earn Star Player Points in any league 
game, not just Competition Matches. However, note that the MVP 
award only applies in Competition Matches.
Q. If a player has to Miss the Next Game, can a Friendly game
count as the game they have to miss?
A. Whatever the team’s next game is – Friendly or Competition – 
the player will miss it. Then, the game after that, they’re available 
again.
Q. Do you roll for Fan Factor after a Friendly game?
Q. How does re-drafting work, exactly?
A. When re-drafting a team, all of the rules for drafting a team 
apply, unless there’s specifically an exception. Only your Fan 
Factor carries over; you need to re-hire coaching staff, re-buy 
re-rolls (at the cost shown on your team list, not the doubled cost 
you would play mid-league) and so on. Your team needs to have 
at least 11 players and no more than 16. It is, in essence, a brand 
new team that a) just happens to share a name with your 
previous season’s team, b) has the same Fan Factor as your 
previous season’s team, c) carries over the gold from your 
previous season’s roster, including any funds raised during 
downtime, and d) can buy back players from your previous 
season’s roster.
Q. Do casualties caused by fouls, the crowd, chainsaws and so
forth count when your team raises funds during downtime?
A. No, just the casualties you’ve recorded on your team roster
during the Update Team Stats phase of the Post-Match 
Sequence – in other words, only casualties that award Star Player 
Points.
League Play – Star Player Points & Improvements
Q. If an Injury roll for a player with the Stunty skill scores a 9
(counting as a Casualty instead of a Knockout), does this count 
as a Casualty for the purposes of earning Star Player points?
Q. If a Casualty roll is re-rolled using an Apothecary, and the
player is returned to the Reserves box, does this still count as a
Casualty for the purposes of earning Star Player points?
Q. If one of a player’s characteristics is increased two points
(through Improvement rolls), but they suffer an injury which
reduces the characteristic by one, can a further improvement roll
increase it by one again?
A. Yes – the number of improvements and/or injuries does not 
matter, the only rule is that the characteristic cannot go higher 
than two points above its starting value (or to a value greater than 
10). 
Everything Else
Q. When choosing Inducements in the pre-match sequence, who
chooses first if the two teams have the same Team Value?
A. The coaches should each roll a D6, re-rolling ties. The winner
chooses whether they will choose Inducements first or second.
Q. If I’m converting my team out of other kits, what size base
should [insert player] be on?
A. It’s your call! Many coaches put their Big Guys (ogres, trolls
and so on) on 40mm round bases, but there’s no need to. It 
doesn’t matter how big or small a Blood Bowl player (or their 
base) is, they still occupy precisely one square.
Q. Suppose my opponent pushes back one player into a second
player. Who decides where the second player ends up?
A. The coach of the moving team decides all pushback directions
unless the pushed player has the Side Step skill. If the player has
Side Step, their coach decides where they are pushed to. (Note. 
Grab cannot be used on secondary (or more!) push backs to 
cancel out Side Step.)
Q. Can a player intentionally throw or hand-off the ball into the
crowd, or move into the crowd?
A. No – however, a player moving randomly (such as a player 
with the Ball & Chain skill) can move into the crowd, which would 
cause them to get beaten up as normal.
Q. What is the best way to remember that a player has taken their 
Action?
A. Our best recommendation would be to start your turn with all
your players facing towards your opponent’s end zone. After 
taking an Action with a player either turn the player to face your 
end zone or one of the sidelines or place some type of marker 
next to them to signify that they are done for this turn.
Q. Can a Special Play Card (or anything else, for that matter) give 
a player a skill a second time if he already has it?
A. No. Having a skill is binary – either a player has it, or does not.
If a player receives a skill a second time, for any reason, there is 
no additional effect.
Q. The Skavenblight Scramblers boxed set contains a team list
which is different from the one in Death Zone Season One – for a
start, there’s no rat ogre! Which is correct?
A. They’re both correct, but they’re intended to be used 
differently. The team list in the Scramblers box gives you a team 
with a value of 1,000,000 gold pieces, allowing you to use the 
contents of the box against the Human or Orc team from Blood 
Bowl). As the Scramblers box doesn’t contain a rat ogre, neither 
does the team list! The list in Death Zone is more comprehensive, 
and lets you gather your own collection of motley rat-things into a 
team.

Crisis Averted: Thanks to some careful management your team behaves itself for once!
Minor Incident: The team gets up to some mischief, and you lose D3 x 10'000 gold pieces.
Major Incident: Half the gold in your Treasury (rounding up) is lost to an unfortunate mishap.
Catastrophe: 
Your Treasury is emptied, except for 2D6 x 10'000 gold pieces which you sensibly squirted away for 
just such an occurrence.