Rules Of The Game

CREDITS
Game Design and Development: Eric M. Lang
Art: Adrian Smith
Producers: Thiago Aranha, Percy de Montblanc
Graphic Design: Mathieu Harlaut
Miniatures Directing: Mike McVey
Sculpting: Grégory Clavilier, Jacques-Alexandre Gillois, Jason 
Hendricks, Steve Saunders, Stephane Simon, Remy Tremblay, 
Jose Roig.
Game Board: Henning Ludvigsen
Logo: Georges Clarenko, Adrian Smith.
Rules: Thiago Aranha, Ed Bolme, Jonathan Moriarity. 
Playtesting: Thiago Aranha, Viola Bafile, Ed Bolme, Nathon 
Braymore, Laurie Cheung, Les Cheung, Christopher Chung, 
Glenn Crawford, Susan “Vella” Davis, Robert Flick, Jason 
Henke, Tim Huesken, Guilherme Goulart, Vitor Grigoleto, 
Sean Jacquemain, Rob Kien-Peng Lim, June King, C. Scott 
Kippen, Sonja Lang, Al Leduc, Adam Marostica, Jonathan 
Moriarity, P. Orbis Proszynski, Leif Paulson, Sean Perley, 
Fred Perret, Jonathan Phillips-Bradford, Spencer Reeve, 
Corey Reid, Stephanie Rogers, Sergio Roma, Daniel Rocchi, 
David Schokking, Devin Stinchcomb, Michael Shinall, 
Steve Tassie, Matthew Tee, Lynette Terrill, Stephen Voland, 
Peter Westergaard, Mark Whiting, James Wilkinson, Kevin 
Wilson.
Publisher: David Preti
© 2015 ​Guillotine Games and Studio McVey, all rights reserved. No part of 
this product may be reproduced without specific permission. Blood Rage and 
Guillotine Games logo ​are trademarks of ​Guillotine Games Ltd., Studio Mcvey 
logo is trademark of Studio McVey Ltd.
CoolMiniOrNot, and the CoolMiniOrNot​ ​logo are trademarks of CMON 
Productions Limited
Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China.
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 
YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Credits	
Introduction	
Objective--------------------- 3
Game Components	
Game Board------------------- 6
Clan Sheet-------------------- 7
Figures ----------------------- 8
Cards ------------------------ 8
Prepare Your Clan-------------- 9
Prepare the Board-------------- 10
Prepare the Cards- ------------- 10
Last Steps-------------------- 11
The Phases of Play	
Gods’ Gifts Phase--------------- 12
Action Phase- ----------------- 13
	
Invade	
	
March	
	
	
Quest	
	
Pillage	
Discard Phase ---------------- 20
Quest Phase------------------ 20
Ragnarök Phase- -------------- 22
Release Valhalla Phase--------- 22
End of an Age - -------------- 22
Rules Summary	
2 Contents

Odin All-Father, in his wisdom, always 
knew Ragnaršk would come. He never 
found a way to prevent the destruction of 
Midgard. Lesser creatures can only cower 
and wait for the end.
But not you. You are a Viking, leader of a 
proud and ancient clan. Even in the face 
of final doom for all the world, you will 
command your warriors on the field of 
battle, conquering and pillaging as you 
were born to do. The gods are generous in 
their twilight hours, bestowing gifts and 
boons upon you. Even the most monstrous 
creatures of Midgard seek to find glory in 
the little time they have left, and so they 
too may join you in your assault. You will 
use everything you have left to earn your 
place in Valhalla by besting all other clans, 
achieving the last victory the world will 
ever know.
Life is fleeting, but glory is eternal. Now is 
the time for rage!
Objective
The goal of the game is to achieve the greatest amount of 
glory before the world finally comes to its fiery end. You 
gain glory through victory in battle, through pillaging, 
accomplishing quests for the gods, and dying valiantly in 
battle. The game progresses through three Ages, as Rag-
narök slowly consumes the world. The player with the 
most glory at the end is the winner.
Introduction

4 Glory Markers 
(1 per clan) 
1 Saga 
1 Doom 
1 Game Board
1 Age Track 
Sheet
1 Valhalla 
Sheet
1 First Player 
16 Clan Tokens 
(4 per clan)
8 Ragnarök Tokens 
9 Pillage 
Tokens
4 Clan Sheets
102 Cards 
(3 decks of 34)
4 Game Components

10 Bear Clan Figures 
9 Monster Figures
10 Wolf Clan Figures 
10 Serpent Clan Figures 
10 Raven Clan Figures 
8 Large 
Plastic Bases 
(2 per clan) 
44 Small 
Plastic Bases 
(11 per clan) 
Game Components

Game Board
The Blood Rage game board is a map of the mythical ter-
rain around Yggdrasil, the great tree that binds the nine 
worlds together. The land is divided into nine provinces. 
The center province is Yggdrasil. There are eight outer 
provinces around it, divided into three regions: Man-
heim, Alfheim, and Jotunheim. Provinces that share a 
border are considered adjacent (Yggdrasil is adjacent to 
all the other provinces).
Each of the provinces has three to five villages. Each village 
can hold a single plastic figure. Because of this, each prov-
ince can only have as many figures within its borders as it 
has villages. Yggdrasil has no villages, and so there is no 
limit to the number of figures that can occupy Yggdrasil.
In addition, there are four fjords situated between pairs of 
outer provinces. Each fjord is said to be supporting the two 
provinces that it is connected to. Any effect that affects a 
province, also affects its supporting fjord. There is no limit 
to the number of Ship figures that can occupy each fjord.
Finally, there is the Glory Track running around the 
edge of the board to keep track of the players’ scores. 
Each player will move his clan’s Glory marker along this 
track whenever they gain more Glory.
Province
Village
Fjord
Glory Track
Adjacent
Supports
Supports
Region
6 Title

Each of the clans the players can choose to play as has 
its own clan sheet in order to keep track of its resources, 
stats and upgrades.
Across the middle of your clan sheet is your Rage Track. 
Rage is your currency. When you take actions, it will 
usually cost you some of your Rage. You will move your 
clan token along this track to indicate how much Rage 
you have left at the moment. 
Below the Rage Track are your clan’s stats. These are 
Rage, Axes, and Horns. 
The Rage stat tells you how much Rage you will have at 
your disposal at the beginning of each round. With more 
Rage, you can take more actions.
The Axes stat tells you how much Glory you gain for 
winning battles. With more Axes, your victories in battle 
will be more glorious, spurring your clan farther on your 
path to victory.
The Horns stat tells you how many figures you can have 
on the board at a time. With greater numbers, you can 
fight more battles, pillage more lands and shed more 
blood.
As the game goes on, you’ll have several opportunities to 
increase each of your clan’s stats. Whenever one of your 
stats is increased by one step, move the respective clan 
token one slot to the right. If you’re able to increase your 
stats to legendary levels by the end of the game, you’ll 
gain powerful glory bonuses.
Clan Sheet
Leader 
Ship 
Clan Upgrade Slots
Monster 
Slots
Action Guide
Warrior 
Warrior 
Basic STR
Rage Track
Ship Basic 
STR and Ability
Leader Basic STR
and Ability 
Horns stat
Axes stat
Rage stat

Figures
Each of your figures — Leader, Ship, Warriors, and even-
tually Monsters — has a Strength rating (STR). At the 
start of the game, these ratings are all shown on your 
clan sheet: Leaders have STR 3, Ships have STR 2, and 
Warriors have STR 1. Having plenty of strength on the 
board will help you win battles and fulfill quests.
In addition, Leaders and Ships start the game with spe-
cial abilities, as detailed on the clan sheet. 
As the game progresses, you may upgrade your figures 
by placing Upgrade cards on the appropriate slot on your 
clan sheet. These cards will tell you your figures’ new 
STR rating and abilities. Note that Leaders and Ships 
still retain the abilities detailed on the clan sheet, even 
if they are upgraded.
Whenever a figure is destroyed, be it in battle, victim of 
a special ability, or by the inescapable doom of Ragnarök, 
it is placed on the Valhalla sheet that sits next to the 
board. There it waits for the next Age to rejoin the battle.
Cards
Three decks of cards are included that represent the gifts 
of the Norse gods. Each round of the game will introduce 
a new deck. These gifts can help in a wide variety of ways.
Battle cards (red) add to your army’s Strength in battle. 
Quest cards (green) represent divine quests given to your 
clan. If successful, they can grant you a lot of glory.
Upgrade cards (black) upgrade several aspects of your clan:
• Troop upgrades upgrade the strength and/or abili-
ties of your Warriors, Leader or Ship.
• Monster upgrades are unique mythological beings 
you can recruit to join you in battle.
• Clan upgrades are upgrades for your clan as a 
whole that offer a variety of different effects.
Str
Special 
Ability
Quest 
Demand
Glory
 Reward
Stats 
Reward
Str 
Bonus
Special 
Ability
8 Basic Concepts

Prepare Your Clan
First, each player chooses one of the available clans to play, 
by placing one of the Clan Sheets in front of them. At the 
start of the game, all clans are equal, but they’ll soon be-
come unique with each player’s choice of upgrades. 
Take your clan’s Leader figure and 8 Warrior figures, and 
make sure the small plastic bases in your clan’s color are 
attached to them. This helps easily distinguish your units 
on the board. Take one Ship figure and make sure it’s got 
a sail attached in your clan’s color. Keep all of your figures 
near your clan sheet. This area is called your reserve.
Also keep your clan’s extra 2 small bases and 2 large bases 
next to you. They will be used if you recruit any Mon-
sters.
Take your clan’s Glory Marker and place it on the Glory 
Track around the board, on the “0” spot.
Take all of your Clan Tokens, placing one of them on the 
first spot of each of the three Clan Stats on your clan 
sheet: Rage, Axes, and Horns. This means all players start 
the game with the following stats: 6 Rage, 3 Axes, and 4 
Horns. Finally take your last Clan token and place it on 
the Rage Track on your clan sheet. Since your starting 
Rage stat is 6, the token is placed on the “6” spot of your 
Rage Track.
Clan Tokens
Starting 
positions
Title

Prepare the Board
Next to the Game Board, place the Valhalla sheet and 
the Age Track sheet.
Take all the Pillage tokens and place the one with the 
green border on the Yggdrasil province at the center of 
the board, with the reward side facing up. Shuffle the 
other 8 Pillage tokens and place them randomly on the 
other 8 provinces surrounding Yggdrasil, face up. The 
Pillage tokens show the reward you get for pillaging that 
province, as explained on page 18.
Take the 8 Ragnarök tokens and shuffle them. Place one 
on each of the three Ragnarök spots on the Age Track. 
The tokens should have the text side facing up, indicat-
ing what provinces will be destroyed in the course of the 
game. 
As a constant reminder of which province is doomed to 
be swallowed next by Ragnarök, place the Doom token 
on the province indicated by the Ragnarök token on the 
First Age track.
Before the game begins, some provinces will already have 
been destroyed by Ragnarök, leaving less usable space on 
the board. Depending on the number of players in the 
game, randomly take the number of Ragnarök tokens in-
dicated below and place them on the provinces indicated 
on them, with the “destroyed” side facing up.
• In a 4-player game, 1 province is destroyed.
• In a 3-player game, 2 provinces are destroyed.
• In a 2-player game, 3 provinces are destroyed.
The remaining Ragnarök tokens are placed back in the 
box. A province with a Ragnarök token on it is effective-
ly out of the game. No figures can ever be placed in that 
province. 
10 Setup

Prepare the Cards
Separate the cards by their card backs, creating three dif-
ferent decks: 1, 2, and 3.
Depending on how many people are playing the game, 
some cards may need to be removed from each deck to 
make sure the game is balanced properly. The cards that 
may need to be removed show on the left side a small 
number, such as 3+, or 4+. This indicates that the card 
should only be included when playing with the indicated 
number of players or more. 
• For a 4-player game, no cards are removed.
• For a 3-player game, all 4+ cards are removed.
• For a 2-player game, all 3+ and 4+ cards are removed.
Each deck contains eight 4+ cards and six 3+ cards. Any re-
moved cards are placed back in the game box. Then, shuf-
fle each of the three decks separately and place them, face 
down, on the appropriate Gods’ Gifts spots of the Age Track.
Last Steps
Place all Monster figures next to the board, within reach 
of all players
Place the Saga token on the first spot of the First Age on 
the Story Track. This is the “Gods’ Gifts – Age 1” spot. The 
Saga token will be moved from phase to phase of each 
Age, one Age after the other, in order to help players keep 
track as the game progresses.
Finally, give the First Player token to the player who 
was born furthest to the north. That player will start 
the game in the First Age. The First Player token will be 
passed to the player to the left at the end of each Age. 
Minimum number
of players

Blood Rage is played over a series of three rounds, known 
as Ages. Each Age is divided into six phases: 
1. GODS’ GIFTS
2. ACTION
3. DISCARD
4. QUEST
5. RAGNARÖK
6. RELEASE VALHALLA
The phases must be played in order, and a phase must be 
completely finished before moving to the next one. Move 
the Saga token on the Age Track from one phase to the 
next as they are completed, to help keep track. Once the 
last phase of an Age is done, the Saga token is moved to 
the first phase of the next Age, until it reaches the end of 
the Third Age and the game ends.
Gods’ Gifts Phase
During this phase, players build a hand of cards in a pro-
cess called drafting. These cards will provide them with 
upgrades for troops and clan, monsters to join the fight, 
quests for glory, and the raw power to win battles.
On the Second and Third Age, if a player has a leftover 
card in their hand from a previous Age, they must first 
place this card face down on their clan sheet, on top of 
their clan symbol.
Take the deck of cards from the Age Track of the current 
Age and deal 8 cards to each player. The few remaining 
cards won’t be used in this game session.
Drafting works like this: Each player inspects the eight 
cards dealt to them and selects one to keep, placing it 
face down on their clan sheet, on top of the symbol of 
their clan animal. Once everyone has placed a card on 
their clan sheet, everyone passes the rest of their cards to 
the player on their left. 
FIRST GAME?
For your First Age, we recommend you simply play 
with the 8 cards you’re dealt, and don’t draft. After 
one Age, players should be familiar enough to draft 
during the Second Age.
12 Title

Now each player looks at the cards they’ve been passed, 
selects one to keep, and places it face down on their 
clan sheet. Then everyone passes their remaining cards 
to the left.
Continue picking and passing cards until each player has 
placed six new cards on their clan sheet. By that point, ev-
eryone will have two cards left to pass. But instead of pass-
ing them, they must be discarded without showing them.
At the end of this phase, all players should have 6 cards 
in their hand, plus any card they might have saved from 
a previous Age. Keep these cards secret from the other 
players. You will be able to use these cards during the 
Action phase. 
Action Phase
This is the main part of the game, where invading and pil-
laging takes place, battles are fought, and blood is spilled.
All players begin the Action phase with the amount of 
Rage indicated by the Rage stat on their clan sheet. If 
this is the first Age, you’ve already taken care of this by 
placing your Clan token at 6 Rage during setup. In sub-
sequent Ages, if you have improved your clan’s Rage stat, 
you will begin the Action phase with more Rage. 
Example: The Raven player has improved his Rage stat two 
steps during the previous Age, so he begins the next Action 
phase with 8 Rage.
The player with the First Player token will go first, and 
play proceeds in clockwise order from there.
On your turn, you must choose a single action to perform. 
If that action carries a cost in Rage (it usually does), you 
must pay that cost and then take your action. Move the 
token on you clan’s Rage Track to indicate how much Rage 
you’ve spent. If you do not have enough Rage to fully pay 
for a particular action, you cannot take that action.
Once your action is complete, your turn ends. The player 
to your left will then take their turn, performing a single 
action and paying any Rage cost associated with it. Play-
ers continue taking turns in order.
DRAFTING IN A 2-PLAYER GAME
Drafting is a little different in a 2-player game. 
Players select 2 cards to keep (instead of 1), placing 
them face down on their clan sheet, and pass the rest 
to their opponent. This is done two more times until 
each player has placed 6 cards on their clan sheet. 
Then the remaining 2 cards are discarded.
STRATEGY TIPS FOR DRAFTING
Most cards are named after a specific god, with each 
god providing a different kind of gift. If you stick most-
ly to cards named after one or two gods, you should do 
well. Here’s what you can expect from each god:
Odin: Judgment and punishment in and out of battle.
Thor: Glory and spoils for victory in battle.
Loki: Revenge or spoils for defeat in battle.
Frigga: Resources and support.
Heimdall: Foresight and surprises.
Tyr: Great numbers for winning battles.
You generally should strive for a relative balance of 
card types. Ignoring a card type completely (such as 
Quests, Upgrades, or Battle Cards) won’t make you 
automatically lose, but it may cost you!

A player who is down to zero Rage cannot perform any ac-
tion on their turn, not even an action that costs zero Rage. 
All that player can do is react to other players’ actions, such 
as participating in a battle started by another player.
Players have five options to choose from when perform-
ing an action (as indicated at the bottom of the clan 
sheet). Players can take the same action several times 
throughout an Action phase, always taking a single ac-
tion per turn.
If you cannot take an action, or do not wish to, you can 
choose to pass. However, when you pass, you lose all your 
remaining Rage and can take no further actions.
End of the Action Phase: The Action phase immediately 
ends when either all players are down to zero Rage, or 
all of the provinces that are not yet destroyed have been 
successfully pillaged (even if players still have Rage left).
INVADE
Choose a single figure in your reserve and pay Rage equal 
to that figure’s STR. Take that figure from your reserve 
and place it into any empty village in any outer province. 
If the chosen figure is a Ship, it must be placed in any 
fjord. You cannot use this action to place a figure directly 
in Yggdrasil; to put your troops in Yggdrasil you’ll have 
to March them there. Also note that invading with your 
Leader does not cost any Rage.
Example: The Raven player has upgraded his Warriors. Since 
their STR is now 2, he pays 2 Rage in order to Invade the empty 
Utgard village with 1 of the Warriors in his reserve.
Note: Always pay attention to your Horns stat. If the 
number of your figures on the board is equal to your cur-
rent Horns stat, you cannot Invade with any more figures 
(Valhalla is not part of the board).
• INVADE: Place a figure from your reserve onto an 
empty village on the map.
• MARCH: Move the figures from one province to 
empty villages in a different province. 
• UPGRADE: Place a card from your hand on your 
clan sheet to improve your abilities.
• QUEST: Commit to a quest by placing a Quest card 
from your hand face down onto your clan sheet. 
• PILLAGE: Attack a province and plunder its boun-
ty for your clan. 
14 The Phases Of Play

MARCH
When you order your troops to March, you must pay 1 
Rage. Choose one province (you cannot choose a fjord) 
and move any number of your figures from that province 
to empty villages in another single province. The des-
tination province doesn’t have to be adjacent, it can be 
anywhere on the board.
You cannot move figures from two different provinces in 
the same action, nor move your figures to two different 
provinces. You can only March from any one province to 
any other. 
Note: Using the March action is generally the only way 
to get your figures to Yggdrasil. There are no villages in 
Yggdrasil, so there is no limit to the number of figures 
you can have there. 
Example: The example below shows five different legal or ille-
gal March actions:
1: The blue player can move his 2 figures, even though the prov-
inces are not adjacent. He’s unable to move all 3 of his figures 
from Gimle because Elvagar only has 2 empty villages.
2: The yellow player can move all the figures he wants from 
Angerboda to Yggdrasil. There’s no limit to the number of fig-
ures that can occupy Yggdrasil.
3: The brown player cannot move his figures into two different 
provinces with a single March action.
4: The red player cannot move his figures from two different 
provinces with a single March action.
5: Ships can never be moved.

UPGRADE
Each clan sheet has slots for up to eight upgrades: one 
each for your Warriors, Leader and Ship, two for Mon-
sters, and three for your Clan.
When you Upgrade, you must choose an Upgrade card 
from your hand and pay Rage equal to that card’s STR. 
Then place the card in the appropriate slot on your clan 
sheet. If there is more than one potential slot, you choose 
which one to use. If there is already a card in that slot, 
discard the old card and replace it with the new one. This 
new Upgrade card is now in permanent effect, granting 
you any benefits listed on it; from higher Strength for 
your troops to special abilities.
If your clan has two Upgrades in different slots that give 
you the same type of benefit, both cards take effect inde-
pendently. One does not cancel the other.
Example: In order to play the Loki’s Eminence upgrade, the 
Serpent player must pay Rage equal to its STR of 2. Since she 
already has three Clan Upgrades on her clan sheet, she chooses to 
discard Frigga’s Succor to make space for the new upgrade. Her 
clan now has both Loki’s Domain and Loki’s Emminence, giving 
it a total of 3 Glory for each figure she releases from Valhalla!
TROOP UPGRADES
When you play a Leader, Warrior, or Ship upgrade, if 
you have the corresponding figure in your reserve, you 
may immediately (before the next player’s turn) Invade 
with it without spending any extra Rage.
MONSTER UPGRADES
Monsters are unique figures that can dramatically 
change the course of the game. Each has a powerful and 
unique special ability.
When you play a Monster upgrade, take the correspond-
ing Monster figure, attach your clan’s base to it, and place 
it in your reserve. It is now yours for the rest of the game, 
counting as one of your figures. You may immediately 
Invade with it without spending any extra Rage. 
Your Monster can die and be sent to Valhalla like any 
other figure, returning to your reserve in the next Re-
lease Valhalla phase. It can gain Glory for you during the 
Ragnarök phase just like any other figure.
You can only have 2 Monsters as part of your clan at a 
time. If you discard a Monster’s card in order to place a 
new Monster in its Upgrade slot, the old Monster figure 
is immediately returned to the game box.
16 The Phases Of Play

QUEST
Take a Quest card from your hand and commit to it by 
placing it face down on your clan sheet, on top of your 
clan’s animal symbol. It costs no Rage to commit to a 
Quest. There is no limit to the number of Quests you can 
commit to during each Age, and you may commit to two 
Quests of the same type (each giving its reward inde-
pendently). You may inspect your own Quests at any time. 
During this Action phase, you should try to fulfill the 
demands of the Quests you commit to, reaping the re-
wards listed on them during the next Quest phase (see 
page 20). However, there’s no penalty for failing a Quest.
Note: Even though it costs no Rage to commit to a Quest, 
remember that you cannot take any actions if you’re 
down to zero Rage; not even a free one.
Example: The Bear player commits to the Jotunheim! Quest. 
If during the next Quest phase he has the most STR in any of 
the Jotunheim provinces, he’ll gain 7 Glory and raise one of his 
clan stats 1 step.
PILLAGE
If you successfully Pillage a province, you will gain a re-
ward, either by improving one of your clan stats, or by 
gaining more glory. But first you will need to defeat in 
battle any other clans occupying that province.
To Pillage, choose a province that has at least one of 
your figures in it (or in a supporting fjord) and has not 
yet been successfully pillaged this phase (its Pillage to-
ken is showing the reward side up). It costs no Rage to 
Pillage, but remember that you can’t take any action if 
you’re down to zero Rage. A Pillaging action is resolved 
by following 3 steps in order:
1. CALL TO BATTLE
Once you have declared your intent to Pillage that prov-
ince, the other players have a chance to join the battle. 
Starting with the player to your left and going around in 
clockwise order, each player (including you) may, if they 
wish, move one of their figures from an adjacent province 
into an empty village in the province you are pillaging. 
Moving a figure in this way does not cost Rage, and even 
players with zero Rage can do it. (Note that Ships cannot 
be moved.) Once all villages in that province are occupied, 
or when no one else wishes to join in, the battle begins. 
 
Note: There are no villages in Yggdrasil, so any number of 
figures can join a battle there.
If at this point there are no enemy figures in the province 
or its supporting fjord, no battle takes place and you au-
tomatically Pillage the province, gaining its reward (see 
next page) and flipping its Pillage token to its “pillaged” 
side. Note that in this case you don’t gain any Glory for 
winning battles.
Otherwise, a battle will take place, and all figures in the 
province being pillaged, or its supporting fjord, must 
participate in it.
1. Call to Battle: Players may move adjacent figures 
to join the battle.
2. Play Cards: Players in the battle reveal cards to 
add STR and/or special effects.
3. Resolution: Highest STR determines the winner. 
Losers are destroyed, winner gets rewards.

2. PLAY CARDS
Each player participating in the battle must choose one 
card from their hand and hold it face down in front of 
them (unless they have no cards left in their hand; in that 
case they don’t have to put a card in). Then they all reveal 
their chosen card simultaneously. 
If you reveal a Battle card, its +STR bonus will be added to 
the total STR of your figures in the battle. Also, any spe-
cial abilities listed on the card takes effect at this point. 
If, however, you reveal an Upgrade or Quest card, it adds 
nothing to your Strength in battle and has no effect.
Each clan adds together the STR of each of its involved fig-
ures, and adds the +STR bonus offered by their played Battle 
card (if any). This is their clan’s total STR in that battle.
Note: If a card’s special effect causes a player to lose all 
the figures he had in the battle before comparing STR, 
that does not mean that clan is out of the battle. The fig-
ures were destroyed in the course of battle, and the clan 
might still emerge victorious if its played Battle card has 
enough STR.
3. RESOLUTION
The player with the highest STR total wins the battle! In 
case of a tie, all participating players lose the battle.
The winner of the battle (if any) must discard all cards 
he played. The losers of the battle take all of their played 
cards back into their hands. 
All losing players must destroy all of their figures that 
were in the battle (including those that were supporting 
from fjords), placing them on the Valhalla sheet. 
If the player who initiated the Pillage wins the battle, 
they have successfully pillaged the province and gain the 
Pillage Reward indicated in the Pillage token (see below). 
Flip the token to its “pillaged” side to indicate that the 
province cannot be pillaged again until the next Age.
If the pillaging player does not win the battle, the prov-
ince is not pillaged and nobody gets the Pillage Reward. 
Any player (including the pillager) can try again later in 
the phase to pillage the province. 
Finally, the winner of the battle gains Battle Glory, 
whether he’s the pillaging player or not. The number of 
Glory points they get is equal to their current Axes stat, 
as indicated on their clan sheet.
Some 
special 
Battle 
cards can be used to 
further 
increase 
the 
Strength of your troops 
even after players have 
revealed 
their 
cards. 
These 
special 
cards 
have their STR bonus 
on a solid white disc, 
and they indicate in the 
card text that they can 
be played after cards 
are revealed but before 
determining 
a 
win-
ner (they can also be 
played normally). The 
pillaging player has the 
first chance to add Strength from one of these spe-
cial cards, and it proceeds clockwise around the table 
from there until nobody wants to play any.
PILLAGE REWARDS
province, increase your clan’s Rage 
stat one step. You do not gain addi-
tional Rage during this phase, but you 
will start with more in the next Age.
province, increase your clan’s Axes 
stat one step. The increased Glory for 
victory in battle takes effect immedi-
ately and includes this battle.
province, increase your clan’s Horns 
stat one step.
province, gain 5 Glory.
When you successfully Pillage Ygg-
drasil, increase all three of your clan 
stats one step. 
18 The Phases Of Play

3. Both of blue’s Warriors die and are sent to 
Valhalla, but the blue player keeps his Up-
grade card and returns it to his hand. Red 
pillages Andlang, flips the pillage token face 
down on the board, and increases her clan stat 
for Axes by one step, raising its value from 
3 to 4. She then gains 4 Glory for her battle 
victory and discards her played battle card. 
Example: 
1. The Wolf clan player (red) chooses to Pillage 
Andlang. She can do this despite not having any 
figures in Andlang, because her Ship is in the sup-
porting fjord. The Raven clan player (blue), seated to 
her left, moves his Warrior from Gimle to an empty 
village in Andlang. The Serpent clan player (yellow) 
would love to join this battle by moving her Leader 
from Horgr to Andlang, since Horgr has already been 
pillaged, but Horgr is not adjacent, so she can’t. The 
red player moves a Warrior from Yggdrasil to one of 
the empty villages in Andlang, then the blue play-
er moves a Warrior from Yggdrasil, taking the last 
empty village in Andlang. The red player would really 
like to move another Warrior in from Yggdrasil, but 
there are no empty villages left in Andlang.
The red and blue players are the only ones with any 
presence in Andlang, so they will be the only ones 
fighting. Red has a total Strength of 3 (2 for the Ship 
and 1 for the Warrior) while blue has a total Strength 
of 2 (2 Warriors, each with 1 STR). They select their 
cards, place them on the table, then reveal them.
2. Red reveals Tyr’s Crush, a battle card with a 
value of +4. But blue had no intention of win-
ning, and simply reveals an Upgrade card, add-
ing nothing to his Strength. Red ends up with a 
Strength of 7 (3+4), and blue with 2 (2+0). Red 
wins the battle.

Discard Phase
Players can only keep a single card (if they have any left) 
to carry over to the next Age. All players must discard 
down to one card.
In the Third Age players should discard all cards, com-
pletely emptying their hands.
Quest Phase
Each player reveals all Quests they have committed to. 
If you have fulfilled a Quest’s requirements, you gain 
the amount of Glory indicated on the card, and may also 
raise any one of your clan stats one step. If you fail to ful-
fill a Quest, you get nothing, but you also lose nothing. 
Discard all revealed Quests, whether successful or not.
Most Quests involve hav-
ing the most Strength in 
any one of the provinces 
of a particular region. Add 
together the STR of each of 
your figures in that prov-
ince (including the sup-
porting fjord) and compare 
your total to the total STR 
of each other clan in that 
same province. If your to-
tal is greater, you fulfill the 
Quest. If you tie with an en-
emy, you fail the Quest.
Example: The Serpent play-
er (yellow) reveals she has 
committed to the Manheim! 
Quest. She’ll succeed if she has 
the most STR in any province 
of the Manheim region. In 
Elvagar the red player has 
three STR 1 Warriors, for a to-
tal of STR 3, while the yellow 
player also has a total of STR 3 
due to her STR 1 Warrior and 
STR 2 Ship in the supporting 
fjord. Since it’s a tie, Elvagar 
does not grant the Serpent 
player the Quest. 
However, her STR 2 Ship is also 
supporting Angerboda, where 
the blue player has only a STR 
1 Warrior. With this the Quest 
succeeds and the Serpent clan 
gets the 5 Glory listed on the 
Quest cards and the player de-
cides to raise her Horns stat 
one step.
20 The Phases Of Play

Ragnarök Phase
Take the token that’s on the current Ragnarök slot and 
place it on its corresponding province, with the “de-
stroyed” side facing up. That province is destroyed forev-
er and is out of the game.
There can be no more glorious death to a Viking than to 
be destroyed in Ragnarök. When a province is destroyed 
this way, all figures in that province, and in its support-
ing fjord, die and are placed in Valhalla. Each such figure 
earns its clan some Glory. The amount of Glory granted 
is indicated on each Ragnarök slot on the Age Track. For 
each of their figures (including Monsters) destroyed in 
Ragnarök, the players gain 2 Glory in the First Age, 3 Glory 
in the Second Age, and 4 Glory in the Third Age.
Next, place the Doom token on the province indicated by 
the next Age’s Ragnarök token.
Release Valhalla Phase
At the end of each Age, all figures in Valhalla are re-
turned to their respective owners. Move all figures on 
the Valhalla sheet belonging to your clan back to your 
reserve. Any figures on the game board remain there.
End of an Age
Before moving on to the next Age, flip 
all Pillage tokens on the board back to 
their “reward” side. These tokens are 
not reshuffled; they stay on the same 
province throughout the game.
The First Player token is passed to the 
player to the left.
Then, move the Saga token down to 
the first phase of the next Age on the 
Age Track. A new Age will then begin 
with a new set of Gods’ Gifts. With 
each new Age, those gifts will grow in 
strength and power, offering greater 
glory, and leading to greater clashes on 
the board over less and less remaining 
territory as Ragnarök continues to de-
stroy the land.
Example: The Ragnarök token indicates Gimle, so it’s taken 
from the Age Track, flipped and placed on the Gimle province 
on the board, destroying it. All figures in that province and 
supporting fjord are destroyed and placed in Valhalla. Two red 
figures and two blue figures are destroyed. Since the Age Track 
indicated a 3 Glory reward this Ragnarök phase, each player 
gains 6 Glory. The Doom token is then moved to the province 
indicated in the next Ragnarök phase: Andlang.
22 The Phases Of Play

Once the Release Valhalla phase of the Third Age is com-
pleted, the world has come to an end, and so has the game. 
It is now time to see what clan has gained the most glory 
and earned its place in Valhalla next to Odin’s throne!
There is one last bonus to tally, though. Players gain a 
Glory bonus for increasing each of their clan’s stats to 
legendary levels. At the end of the game only, for each of 
your clan stats that has been increased to the 4th or 5th 
step, gain +10 Glory. For each of your clan stats that has 
been increased to the last step, gain +20 Glory.
Example: The Raven player has managed to raise two of his 
clan stats to legendary levels. At the end of the game he gains 
+10 Glory for Rage and +20 Glory for Axes, for a total of +30 
Glory.
The player whose clan has the most Glory is then de-
clared the winner!
PLAY TIPS
Blood Rage is not just a simple area control game. 
While winning battles can certainly be a path to vic-
tory, you can sometimes gain a great deal by dying. 
In a suicidal battle, you can gain glory as your troops 
are sent to Valhalla. And at the same time you de-
plete cards from the hand of the winner, weakening 
them for future battles.
Quests can score huge amounts of glory. They’re much 
too powerful to ignore. But if you collect too many 
of them, you may be too weak to accomplish them. 
You need to strike a balance. It’s also important to 
watch the other players as they invade and pillage. If 
you can figure out which quests they are committed 
to, you have a much better chance of stopping them 
from completing those quests.

Rules Summary
The Phases of each Age
1. GODS’ GIFTS
Deal 8 cards to each player. Draft until each player has 
6 cards. Discard remaining 2 cards.
2. ACTION
Set Rage to clan’s current Rage stat.
Take turns performing 1 action at a time, paying the 
Rage cost associated to each action.
Players with 0 Rage cannot take any action.
Continue until all players have 0 Rage or all provinces 
are pillaged.
INVADE
Pay Rage equal to a figure’s STR to move it from your 
reserve onto an empty village.
Can’t Invade Yggdrasil. Ships can only Invade fjords. 
Leaders Invade for free.
MARCH
Pay 1 Rage to move any of your figures from one prov-
ince to empty villages in one other province. 
Ships can’t March.
UPGRADE
Pay Rage equal to the STR of an Upgrade card in your 
hand to place it on your clan sheet.
If you Upgrade a figure, you may immediately Invade 
with it for free.
QUEST
At no Rage cost, place a Quest card from your hand 
face down on your clan sheet, committing to it.
PILLAGE
At no Rage cost, choose an un-pillaged province with 
at least one of your figures in it (or in a supporting 
fjord) to attempt to pillage it.
Starting with the player to the left, players may move 
for free figures from adjacent provinces into empty 
villages of the province being pillaged.
All players with figures in the battle choose and reveal 
one card. Add your card STR bonus to your figures to-
tal STR. Highest total wins the battle. On a tie all par-
ticipants lose the battle.
All losing players return all played cards to their 
hands. All of their participating figures are destroyed 
and go to Valhalla.
If pillaging player wins, gain Pillage Reward and flip 
Pillage token.
Winning player gains Battle Glory equal to his Axes 
stat and discards all played cards.
3. DISCARD
Players discard their hands down to 1 card.
4. QUEST
Reveal and discard all played Quest cards, gaining re-
wards for completed Quests.
5. RAGNARÖK
Destroy current doomed province. All figures in it and 
in its supporting fjord are destroyed and go to Valhalla.
Gain the amount of Glory indicated on the Age Track 
for each of your figures destroyed.
Move Doom token to the next doomed province.
6. RELEASE VALHALLA
Return all figures in Valhalla to their owner’s reserve.
End of an Age
Flip all Pillage tokens up. Pass First Player token to the 
left.
Gain the indicated Glory bonus for each of your clan 
stats at legendary levels.
Player with the most Glory wins.