Game Design: 
Steven Medway 
 
Promotions / Business Development: 
Evin Donohoe 
 
Faceless Corporate Entity: 
Eden Medway 
 
Technical Shenanigans: 
Amy Hawkes 
 
Social Media: 
Andy Churchill 
 
Storyteller Baron: 
Ted Helm 
 
Head of Community Development for UK & Europe: 
Ben Burns 
 
Art (forthcoming): 
Matt Hughes, John Van Fleet, Micaela Dawn, Aidan Roberts, 
Grace Van Fleet 
 
Graphic Design (forthcoming): 
Peter Gifford 
 
Additional Art & Visual Design (forthcoming): 
John Grist, Chris Allen, Marianna Carr, Caitlin Murphy, Zoe 
Alexandra 
 
Rulebook Editing (ongoing): 
Josh Yearsley 
 
Rules Inquisitor: 
Jon Gjengset 
 
Additional role ideas & inspiration: 
Evin Donohoe (Blacksmith, Lycanthrope, Cannibal, Pixie, 
Engineer, 
Copycat, 
Hustler, 
Insomniac, 
Psychopath, 
Banshee, Queen of Lies), Angelus Morningstar (Messenger, 
Tycoon, Casanova, Golden Child, Queen, Riddle Fiend, 
Plague Doctor, Houndskeeper), Amy Hawkes (Apothecary, 
Quack, Tipi-Tipi, Pixie, Lil’ Monsta), Marianna Carr (Snake 
Charmer, Gladiator, Queen of Lies), Julian Orbach (Prophet, 
Fiddler), 
Lachlan 
McCubbin 
(Cannibal, 
Shacklewight), 
Benjamin Clowes (Sicilian, The Rising), Doug Williams 
(Huntsman, Damsel), 
Filnando 
Lovenandez (Prisoner, 
Zombuul), Regina Neeson (Familiar), Lewis Worthington (Vat 
Dweller), Alex Thompson (Pacifist), Jesse Gabriel (Haunt), 
Malcolm Ryan (Lleech), Simon Mackenzie (Summoner), 
Elsbeth Green (Daughter of Nox), John Conal Donohoe 
(Psychopath). 
 
How to Use These Books 
 
…………….……………3 
Understanding the Basics 
 
…………….……………4 
 What Is This Game? 
 
…………….……………4 
 What Is the Town Square? 
 
…………….……………6 
 What Is the Grimoire? 
 
…………….……………7 
 What Else Is in the Box? 
 
…………….……………8 
Running the Game 
 
 
…………….……………9 
 Setup 
 
 
 
…………….……………9 
 The Night 
 
 
 
…………….……………10 
 The Day 
 
 
 
…………….……………12 
 Ending the Game 
 
 
The Nitty Gritty 
 
 
 Abilities 
 
 
 
 States 
 
 
 
 Traveler Characters 
 
…………….……………18 
 Fabled Characters 
 
 
…………….……………19 
How to Be a Great Storyteller 
…………….……………21 
 Running things smoothly 
 
…………….……………21 
 Making things fun 
 
 
…………….……………22 
Going Further 
 
 
…………….……………26 
 The Script Tool 
 
 
…………….……………26 
 Growing Your Clocktower Group 
…………….……………28 
 The Editions 
 
 
…………….……………29 
Glossary 
 
 
 
…………….……………30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While every effort is being made to make these rulebooks as 
useful as possible, they are not the final versions. Minor 
rewordings of character abilities, explanatory text, or 
heaven forbid – the correcting of typographical errors (!) – 
may happen in the future. 

You are the Storyteller. You are the boss. You will be the 
person who reads the rules, who referees the game, and 
who creates the chaotic and fun situations in which your 
players will play. Many people find the Storyteller role the 
most creative, rewarding, and interesting of all. This book is 
written for you, and you will need to read some of it before 
running your first game. 
The players you will guide don’t need to read any of this 
rulebook, nor any of the almanacs or sheets included. Part 
of your role as Storyteller is to familiarize them with the 
basic rules at the start of their first game. That said, players 
are still welcome to read whatever tickles their fancy in 
these rulebooks—there is nothing secret here. 
If you’ve already played Blood on the Clocktower and have a 
rough idea of how the Grimoire works, you can skip ahead 
to “Running the Game” (page 10). If not… 
To prepare for your first game: 
1) Read "Understanding the Basics" (page 4). This chapter 
will give you an overview of Blood on the Clocktower so you 
can understand what kind of game it is. If you are already 
familiar with social deduction games such as Werewolf or 
Mafia, you will find some familiar territory here. 
2) Read "Running the Game" (page 10). This chapter 
explains the basic rules of the game. You will learn how to 
start a game, how to end it, and what to do in between. 
3) Read the Trouble Brewing character almanac. Trouble 
Brewing is the most basic edition of Clocktower, and we 
highly recommend you start with it. Take a look at the 
characters and get a sense of each one. You don't need to 
know every detail of every character combination—just 
enough to get a rough idea of how they work. 
Once you’ve done this, you are ready to run your first 
game! 
While running a game, if you need to quickly clarify a 
rule, read the Glossary (page 31). The Glossary is much 
more than just a definition of terms—all the important 
game rules are listed there alphabetically. 
If anyone wants more information about how a 
character works, refer to their entry in the appropriate 
Character Almanac, which explains each character’s 
weird and wonderful nuances, as well as interactions 
with other characters in that almanac. 
After running your first game or two, you’ll find it handy to 
read further: 
“The Nitty-Gritty” (page 16) includes guidelines for 
interpreting the rules and the characters’ abilities as well 
as a cornucopia of information on the types of 
characters available. 
"How to Be a Great Storyteller" (page 22) gives tips and 
tools to help you take your games to the next level. 
“Going Further” (page 27) describes how to create 
custom lists of characters, gives advice on growing your 
Clocktower group, and catalogues many new editions—
collections of characters you can add to your game. 
Reading these sections will help you make your games 
smoother, massively more fun, infinitely varied, subtly 
weird, and fiendishly challenging! 
You can read the Bad Moon Rising and Sects & Violets 
almanacs once you wish to run them. Don’t worry about 
these editions until then. 
Your understanding is more important than blindly 
following a procedure. Instead of simply listing the game 
rules in one dry chunk and hoping that you absorb it all at 
once, this rulebook is written in such a way that you learn 
the rules as you learn what you need to do as the 
Storyteller. You can expand your knowledge and add flair to 
your games once you've got the basics down. 

A long time ago in the sleepy town of Ravenswood Bluff, 
during a hellish thunderstorm, on the stroke of midnight a 
scream echoes down the vine-covered stones of its twisting 
alleyways. 
The startled townsfolk rush to the town square to 
investigate, and find that the local Storyteller has been 
murdered, their body impaled on the hour hand of the town 
clock, blood dripping onto the cobblestones below. Curiosity 
turns to fear, as it soon becomes obvious to all that a demon 
is on the loose—killing by night and taking on human form 
by day. 
Each of the townsfolk has some information, but the demon 
and its evil minions are spreading lies to confuse and breed 
suspicion over the identity of the fiend. Will the good folk 
put the pieces of the puzzle together in time? Or will evil 
overrun this once peaceful town? 
Blood on the Clocktower is a social game of deduction and 
deception, lies and logic, murder and mystery, for 5 to 20 
players. During the day, players talk and socialize as a group, 
or go into private conversations to gather information, share 
what they know, or spread lies. During the night, players 
close their eyes, whilst some good players wake to learn 
valuable information and the demon and its minions wake 
up to spread their mischief. 
Each player is a unique character, with a powerful ability to 
use or a troublesome penalty to avoid. Clocktower is mostly 
a talking game, with almost no physical pieces for the 
players to use. Players win or lose by their wits, their insight, 
and their ability to convince others about who should live 
and who should die. 
Blood on the Clocktower games usually run for 30 to 90 
minutes, and you may find yourselves playing several games 
one after the other. 
Eleven players are sitting in a dimly lit room, on couches and 
comfy chairs, facing each other in a rough circle. Spooky 
music plays softly in the background. Most players are 
arguing, and some are listening. They each have a secret 
identity, and they all know that three of them are evil, while 
eight of them are good. The good players do not know each 
other, and are trying to figure out who is good and who is 
evil. The evil players know each other, and are spreading lies 
about who is who. The mood is tense. 
Marianna, Julian, and Alex, all sitting on the same couch and 
talking amongst themselves, finally join in. "I am the 
Investigator," says Marianna, "which means I know that 
either Abdallah or Sarah is an evil Minion—the Scarlet 
Woman, to be exact." 
"Well, you can't kill me," says Abdallah, "because I am the 
Saint. If I am executed, we all lose. It's got to be Sarah." 
"…that's bullshit!" says Sarah. "I am the Fortune Teller! I am 
good! You need to keep me alive so that I can gain 
information. Abdallah is evil! Don't trust him." 
"Well, well, well," says Alex, "that is very convenient, isn't it? 
I am the Empath, which means I know that I am sitting next 
to one evil player and one good player. Either Julian is evil or 
you are evil, Sarah." 
"No," says Sarah, "one of you is lying. Or maybe you are all 
lying! I am good! I swear!" 
Lewis and Evin, on the other side of the room, stay quiet. 
Lewis is the Soldier and does not want to reveal his identity 
to the group just yet. Evin, the Monk, is watching and 
listening to determine who is valuable and who is 
expendable. Evin will be able to protect one player from 
death tonight, so he waits, letting other people do the 
talking. 
Eventually, Douglas speaks. "I am the Chef," he says. "I know 
that two evil players are sitting next to each other. I think 
Marianna and Julian are evil. Or maybe Alex and Sarah are 
evil. Mind you, Sarah and Lachlan are sitting next to each 
other and have been whispering about god-knows-what. 
Maybe that's the evil pair. Either way, I'd like to execute 
Sarah." 
After a few more minutes of chit-chat, the Storyteller enters 
the circle of players, holding the Grimoire—the game box 
with all the secret information—and asks for votes on which 
player will be executed today. The group decides to kill 
Sarah, despite her protests. Sarah, who was not the Demon, 
dies. Since the Demon is still alive, the game continues. The 
day ends, and night begins. 
The Storyteller asks all players to close their eyes. The 
Storyteller walks around the circle and, one by one, taps on 
the shoulders of certain players. These players open their 
eyes to use their characters’ special abilities. Evin, the Monk, 
wakes up and points to Julian, signaling that Julian is 
protected from the Demon’s attack tonight. The Storyteller 
then signals to Evin to close his eyes again. Benjamin, the 

Demon, wakes up and points to Douglas, the Chef, signaling 
that he wishes to attack Douglas. 
Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, wakes up and also points to 
Julian, since he’d heard Julian whisper that he is the 
Undertaker—a character who learns which character died 
by execution. Julian is now poisoned and will get false 
information tonight. Sure enough, when Julian wakes later 
that night, the Storyteller signals to him that Sarah was the 
Drunk, a good character, even though Sarah was actually the 
Scarlet Woman. 
After the night is finished, all players open their eyes, and 
the Storyteller tells the group that Douglas died during the 
night. 
"Damn," says Douglas. 
"Aha!" says Julian. "Sarah was not the Scarlet Woman at all! 
She was the Drunk! Sarah is good, which means either 
Abdallah or Marianna is lying!" 
Lachlan, the evil Poisoner, feels satisfied that the poisoned 
Undertaker's misinformation has helped the evil team 
recover from their initial loss of Sarah. Lachlan says, "Amy, 
why don't you tell the group what you told me in private 
earlier? You are a powerful character and could be very 
useful to us good folk." 
Amy speaks up. "I am the Slayer," she says, interrupting a 
heated conversation between Sarah, Alex, Marianna, and 
Julian. "I am able to kill the Demon immediately if I can 
guess correctly who it is. But I only get one shot at it." 
Benjamin, the Demon, says, "Good idea! I reckon that 
Marianna is the Demon. She is making everyone look evil, 
and getting us to turn against ourselves." 
"Get real. That's total bollocks," says Marianna. 
"Maybe it's Marianna,” says Amy, "but Lewis is just too quiet 
for my liking. What is he hiding?" 
"I am the Soldier!" says Lewis. "I didn't want to say who I 
was because I wanted the Demon to attack me. I am safe 
from the Demon." 
"I trust Lewis," says Benjamin. "I'm the Washerwoman, so I 
know Lewis is the Soldier.” 
"I've got a good vibe on Lewis too," says Evin, "I am the 
Monk, and protected Julian last night. We need our 
Undertaker to survive. But he does have shifty eyes." 
"But wait!" says Amy. "If Sarah is the Drunk, then that must 
mean Abdallah is lying! We can't have both a Drunk and a 
Saint at the same time! It's Abdallah!" 
"I'm sorry, but you are mistaken," says Abdallah. "I think 
that Sarah actually is evil after all, and our Undertaker is 
lying. Trust me." 
"Nope," says Amy, "I choose to use my Slayer ability on 
Abdallah." 
The Storyteller enters the circle again and informs the group 
that, unfortunately, the Slayer has not found her target 
today. "So," says Evin, "that means that either Abdallah is 
good, or Amy is lying." 
"I knew it!" says Benjamin. "Traitors in our midst! You just 
can't trust anyone these days." 
After more chit-chat of this nature, the Storyteller prompts 
the group to choose a new player to execute. Then, another 
night begins, where all players close their eyes, and some 
players open their eyes to receive information from the 
Storyteller or to use their abilities while no one else is 
watching. 
If the Demon is executed by the good players, good wins. 
But if good cannot solve the puzzle in time, and the Demon 
continues to eat player after player each night for much 
longer, evil will win. What exciting stuff! 

 
1 Grimoire (2 pieces) 
1 Grimoire stand (2 pieces) 
1 Town Square board 
4 Plastic sleeves 
1 Setup sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
1 Traveler sheet (with rules sheet on back) 
 
1 Bag 
18 Shroud tokens 
30 Night tokens 
4 Info tokens 
2 Metal clips 
20 Life tokens 
18 Vote tokens 
 
1 Travelers & Fabled character almanac 
1 Travelers & Fabled token box 
15 Traveler character tokens 
14 Traveler reminder tokens 
12 Fabled character tokens 
12 Fabled reminder tokens 
 
1 Trouble Brewing character almanac 
1 Trouble Brewing edition box 
1 Trouble Brewing night sheet 
20 Trouble Brewing character sheets 
25 Trouble Brewing character tokens 
18 Trouble Brewing reminder tokens 
 
1 Bad Moon Rising character almanac 
1 Bad Moon Rising edition box 
1 Bad Moon Rising night sheet 
20 Bad Moon Rising character sheets 
25 Bad Moon Rising character tokens 
41 Bad Moon Rising reminder tokens 
 
1 Sects & Violets character almanac 
1 Sects & Violets edition box 
1 Sects & Violets night sheet 
20 Sects & Violets character sheets 
25 Sects & Violets character tokens 
37 Sects & Violets reminder tokens 

You can set up a game of Clocktower by following the 
instructions on the setup sheet, which are explained in more 
detail here. 
1. Gather your players. Get one chair per player and arrange 
the chairs facing each other. A rough circle or square is fine, 
as long as people are sitting in a definite clockwise or 
counterclockwise order. As the Storyteller, you will need to 
be able to enter and exit the circle often, so a leave a gap 
between two chairs. The center of this space will need to be 
mostly empty—no tables or hazards on the floor which can 
be tripped on. 
2. Prepare the Grimoire. Clip and stand the Grimoire by 
fastening the two metal clips as close as possible to the 
upper and lower corners, creating a sturdy book-like 
container from the game box. 
Unfold and assemble the black Grimoire stand and place the 
Grimoire upon it, putting it where players that walk around 
will not accidentally see its contents. 
Collect supplies of all the info, night, and shroud tokens 
anywhere you like in the Grimoire. (We recommend the 
bottom-left corner of the right side.) 
3. Choose an edition. This box set comes with three 
editions: Trouble Brewing, Bad Moon Rising, and Sects & 
Violets. Choose one to play with. Uncover and add its edition 
box to the bottom-left part of the Grimoire. (This will let you 
easily access the character and reminder tokens you need for 
this game.) 
You’ll need 5 players or more for Trouble Brewing, and you’ll 
need 7 players or more for all other editions. 
We recommend you start with Trouble Brewing and then 
move on to other editions. Likewise, we recommend you 
run a game or two with 5 to 10 players to get the hang of 
things, then try your hand at larger games. 
4. Prepare the Town Square. Place the Town Square board 
on the floor in the center of the chairs. Add life tokens equal 
to the number of players to the Town Square. Put a pile of 
vote tokens in the center of the Town Square. Place the 
Traveler sheet partially under the Town Square, so it shows 
the number of Townsfolk, Outsiders and Minions. 
5. Read the rules to any new players. The rules sheet 
describes all the major things that a new player will need to 
know to start playing. Simply read out the text written on 
this sheet to the group, or let those who want to read it 
privately do so. 
Part of the rules sheet will prompt you to talk about 
various hand signals. You’ll want to demonstrate these 
hand signals as you go, since some players learn visually. 
If you wish, you can read out the part of the rules sheet 
that talks about nominations and executions now, but 
most players will learn this better if you read it out later 
on, when the first nomination for execution begins. 
There is a duplicate rules sheet on the reverse side of the 
Traveler sheet, kept under the Town Square. To save 
time, get a veteran player to read out the rules from this 
sheet, so you don’t have to. While they are explaining the 
rules, you can set up the game. 
6. Secretly choose characters. Take all of the Townsfolk 
character tokens out of the chosen edition box, and choose 
the appropriate number for the number of players, as listed 
on the setup sheet. Put these character tokens in the left 
side of the Grimoire, and return all remaining Townsfolk 
character tokens to the edition box. Then, do the same for 
any Outsiders, Minions, and the Demon. Do this secretly—
the players do not know which characters are in the game. 
If there are more than 15 players in this game, then any 
excess players must volunteer to be Travelers. Travelers 
have enormous power but less responsibility, and they often 
help the game go quicker. Give these volunteers the 
Traveler sheet, so that they can choose which Travelers they 
wish to be. You’ll find more information about them in 
“Traveler Characters” (page 19). 
For your first game, we do not recommend that you include 
Travelers. 
Choosing Characters. The characters you choose will 
greatly affect how the game plays. Choose what you 
think will be fun, what will interact well, or simply what 
you feel capable of handling. If it is your first game, and 
you don’t know which characters to include, consider the 
following (for an 8-player game) or alter it to suit your 
style: 
1) Chef, Empath, Fortune Teller, Undertaker, Virgin, 
Drunk (Investigator), Scarlet Woman, Imp. This setup 
has a lot of information for the good team, and is a great 
way to get people engaged and talking immediately, but 
also is relatively safe for evil players that are unsure of 
how to bluff well. It will be a chaotic game that is a blast 
for new players. Remember to give the drunk Investigator 

false information, and remember that they cannot die by 
nominating the Virgin! 
2) Slayer, Ravenkeeper, Mayor, Fortune Teller, Empath, 
Saint, Poisoner, Imp. This will be a much quieter game, 
as players slowly figure out if the Saint, Slayer, and Mayor 
are telling the truth. The Poisoner, who has many juicy 
targets, can certainly cause some chaos. However, the 
game may be a quick one if the Slayer is savvy, if the 
Saint is not savvy enough, or if the Poisoner cannot find 
the Empath and Fortune Teller in time. If the Mayor is 
attacked at night, remember to kill another player 
instead—perhaps the Ravenkeeper? 
3) Washerwoman, Slayer, Virgin, Undertaker, Fortune 
Teller, Recluse, Spy, Imp. This is a more advanced setup, 
requiring some deeper logic from the players, but can be 
very rewarding if they figure it out. Remember that the 
Recluse can register as the Demon to the Fortune Teller, 
Undertaker, and Slayer! And remember that the Spy can 
register as a Townsfolk to the Virgin, Undertaker, and 
Washerwoman! 
7. Add and remove characters. If any chosen character 
tokens show an orange leaf, you will need to add or remove 
some character tokens, as described by its almanac entry. 
On the character token, the text in square brackets like [this] 
briefly describes how to alter the characters in play this 
game. This happens once, during the setup phase, and does 
not happen again once the game is underway. 
After adding and removing character tokens, the number of 
character tokens will always equal the number of players. 
The Baron adds two Outsiders to the game, but removes 
two Townsfolk. Other characters, such as the Drunk, do 
similar things. 
8. Add reminder tokens to the Grimoire. If any chosen 
character tokens show green leaves at the top of its 
character token, add the reminder tokens for that character 
next to the character token in the Grimoire. Return all 
remaining reminder tokens to the edition box. 
The reminder tokens for a character show the same symbol 
as its character token. The number of green leaves equals 
the number of reminder tokens that character has: If there’s 
one leaf, add one reminder. If there are three, add three. 
The Investigator character token shows a magnifying 
glass symbol, and both of the Investigator's reminder 
tokens show the same symbol. 
9. Pass out character tokens. Shuffle the character tokens 
and put them in the bag. Then, each player takes 1 character 
token out of the bag, and then passes the bag to the next 
player. Continue this until each player has one token. Each 
player looks at their character token in secret, revealing it to 
no one else. 
10. Add the character tokens to the Grimoire. Collect all the 
character tokens from the players, and place them in your 
Grimoire so they match the seating positions of the players. 
The safest way to collect character tokens is to ask all 
players to hold their hand out, with their character token 
in hand, felt side up, face side down. You can simply grab 
it from their hand, making sure nobody sees a flash of 
color as you do so. 
The exact position of each character token in the 
Grimoire is up to you. If three players are all sitting on the 
same couch, it is more helpful to group those three 
tokens close together, in order to remind yourself that 
they are the couch triplet. As long as the clockwise or 
counterclockwise order of the players is the same in the 
Grimoire as it is in the physical space, you'll be fine. 
Now you’re ready to begin! 
Before running the night phase itself, you’ll want to prepare 
a few things first. Ideally, nights should go quickly and 
smoothly with a minimum of thinking. If you prepare your 
night well, you've done all your thinking beforehand! 
First, make sure your night sheet is set up properly. Put it on 
the right side of the Grimoire. 
If this is the first night phase of the game, use the "First 
Night" side (shown in top-right) of the night sheet. 
If this is not the first night phase, use the "Other Nights" 
side. 
Add and remove any reminder tokens you need. Place 
reminders you’ll need tonight in the appropriate positions 
on the left side of the Grimoire. Place any reminders you 
won’t need tonight on the right side of the Grimoire. 
Reminders. The ways you’ll use each character’s 
reminder tokens are described in their entry in their 
character almanac, although they should be fairly 
obvious. For example, you’ll place the two Washerwoman 
reminders by the character tokens of the two players that 
the Washerwoman will learn about during the first night. 

Place night tokens on the night sheet by each character who 
is acting tonight and by the “Dawn” line. Also, add night 
tokens in the special situations below. 
If this is the first night of the game and there are 7 or 
more players, add night tokens to the "Minion info" and 
"Demon info" entries on the night sheet. (This will 
remind you to wake all the Minions and show them the 
Demon, and to wake the Demon and show them the 
Minions.) 
If this is not the first night and there are Travelers in 
play, then place a night token by the "Dusk" entry of the 
night sheet. (At dusk, some Travelers act—a night token 
here can help you remember to wake them.) 
Leaves. The easiest way to know which characters need 
night tokens is to look for leaves on their character 
tokens. A leaf on the left side of the token means that 
character acts on the first night. A leaf on the right side 
means that the character acts on all other nights. 
Planning. This is also a good time to think briefly about 
what you might need to do in the coming night. For 
example, if this is the first night, you will show the Demon 
three not-in-play character tokens to help them bluff. 
Which tokens will you show them? If a player is drunk and 
will act tonight, what misinformation will you give them? 
Knowing what you want to do in advance will help the 
nights go quicker, which keeps players engaged. 
Players may talk amongst themselves freely while you are 
planning the night phase. 
During the night phase, players keep their eyes closed. Some 
players will wake, opening their eyes, to learn information or 
use powerful abilities. Typically the Demon attacks at night, 
killing one or more players or otherwise causing havoc. 
To start the night, tell the players to close their eyes. Say "All 
players, eyes closed," or something similar, and check that 
their eyes are closed if needed. Now, do the actions on the 
night sheet from top to bottom. 
If it is the first night and you are playing with 7 or more 
players, do these two steps: 
1) Wake all the Minions and show them the Demon. Let the 
Minions make eye contact so they know who each other are. 
Then, show each Minion the "This Is the Demon" info token 
and point at the Demon. Make sure all Minions can see who 
you are pointing to. Then, put all the Minions to sleep. 
2) Wake the Demon and show all Minions. Wake the 
Demon, show them the "These are your Minions" info 
token, then point to each Minion. Then, show the Demon 
the "These characters are not in play" info token, and show 
the Demon any three good character tokens that are not in 
play. 
Bluffing. Showing these character tokens will help the 
Demon bluff as one of them. It is usually best to show two 
Townsfolk and one Outsider token to the Demon—that 
way, they can choose among all sorts of characters to 
bluff as. They can, of course, ignore this advice and bluff 
as any character they want. 
Wake each player who gets to use their character’s ability 
tonight, one at a time from top to bottom on the night 
sheet. Resolve their ability, and then put the player to sleep. 
As characters act, place reminders as needed. A yellow 
circle next to a character on the night sheet means you may 
need to put that character’s reminder token somewhere. 
For example, after the Poisoner chooses someone, put the 
Poisoner's "Poisoned" reminder by the chosen player’s 
character token, to remind you that they’re poisoned. 
When you reach dawn, simply wait five to ten seconds. 
Then, declare that the players can open their eyes. Saying 
"All players, eyes open," or something similar does the trick. 
If any players died at night, declare immediately which 
players died at night. You’ll learn about death later in 
“Execution and Death” (page 14). 
Doing Dawn Well. The small wait at dawn prevents 
players from knowing for sure whether they were the last 
to act at night. Likewise, declaring who died immediately 
prevents players from quickly shouting out “I died! I 
wasn’t woken last night!” which helps prove that they’re 
a particular character. 
How do I know who to wake up at night? The Storyteller 
will need to judge from the state of the game whether 
they need to wake a player up, even if they have a night 
token on the night sheet. The description of the character 
itself will say when they will wake up through the course 
of play. 
For example, the Ravenkeeper gets a night token because 
they might need to be woken, but might not. If the 
Demon kills the Ravenkeeper, you will wake the 
Ravenkeeper later that night to give them their 
information. If the Demon does not, simply skip the 
Ravenkeeper's action that night—there is no need to 
wake them for no reason. 
For another example, the Gossip’s ability may kill a 
player, but the Gossip player does not wake to learn that 
this has happened. 

How do abilities work? Usually, a player wakes, then 
either chooses a player to affect or receives some 
information from you via hand signals. Each character’s 
ability is listed on the night sheet and described in full 
detail in the appropriate character almanac. You’ll learn 
far more about abilities in “Abilities” (page 16), but don’t 
move on to this section until you’ve played a game or two 
first. 
Some characters can kill other characters at night. If a 
character dies at night before they would wake up, that 
character won’t wake up. Death is explored further in 
“Execution and Death” (page 14). 
You will use hand signals to communicate to some players 
at night. Since all players will have their eyes closed during 
the night, and the player that acts to wake does so in secret, 
you will be keeping as quiet as possible so as to not reveal 
their identity to the other players. Any complex questions 
can be handled in private during the day phase. You can give 
all these signals with one hand, while the other holds the 
Grimoire. 
Eyes Open: To wake a player during the night, gently tap 
them twice on either the shoulder or the knee. 
Eyes Closed: To put a player back to sleep during the 
night, put your hand over your eyes. 
Yes: To signal “yes” to a player, nod your head. 
No: To signal “no” to a player, shake your head. 
Good: To signal that a player is good, give a thumbs-up 
gesture. 
Evil: To signal that a player is evil, give a thumbs-down 
gesture. 
A Number: To signal a number to a player, hold up that 
many fingers. To signal a zero, touch your thumb to the 
tips of your other fingers, forming a “0” shape. 
Indicate a Specific Player: To indicate a specific player, 
point to that player. 
Indicate a Specific Character: To indicate a specific 
character, show that character token or point to the 
character icon on their character sheet. (Make sure you 
hold the token close enough to player so they can see 
it—a foot or less is generally close enough.) 
If a player is the Empath (who wakes each night to learn 
how many of their neighbors are evil), and that Empath is 
sitting next to 1 evil player, the entire process is as 
follows: 
Tap twice on the Empath's knee to wake them. Show the 
finger signal for "1.” Put your hand over your eyes, to let 
them know they are to go back to sleep. 
Or, if a player is the Ravenkeeper (who wakes up and 
chooses a player, and learns their character), the entire 
process is as follows: 
Tap twice on the Ravenkeeper's knee to wake them. The 
Ravenkeeper will point to a player. When they have done 
so, point to that player too (just to confirm that you 
understand who they are pointing at), then remove that 
player's character token from the Grimoire and show it to 
the Ravenkeeper. Once they have seen it, put the 
character token back into the Grimoire, then put your 
hand over your eyes to put the Ravenkeeper back to 
sleep. 
During the day phase, players talk to each other. They may 
scheme, lie, share information, or stay silent and try to 
puzzle out who is who. Then, they vote on who will be 
executed. This is the main part of the game, mostly handled 
by the players themselves. 
To begin, just let the players talk amongst themselves. 
There is very little that you need to do. Players may say 
whatever they want, or may say nothing at all. 
Generally speaking, good players will reveal their characters, 
and any information they have, while evil players will 
pretend to be good characters, and give out bogus 
information. Sometimes good players will be deceptive too. 
It is up to them. 
Players may talk to the group, whisper to each other, or 
even leave their seats to talk in secret with other players. 
Encourage them to stay in the circle as they’re doing this, 
though. 
Questions? Some players will have questions for you. You 
will have already read out the main rules for while setting 
up, but people do forget. Or a player may ask about how 
a particular character works. Unlike other games, 
Clocktower does not require all players to know all the 
rules before playing. We emphasize participation, so 
please be as helpful as possible with players who have 
questions. If you don't know the answer, look in the 
Glossary (page 30) or in the appropriate entry of the 
character almanac. 
You can answer questions either publicly, so that all the 
group hears, or privately. Players with questions about 
their character’s ability may want to talk in private with 
you, so that no one else knows who they are or what 
question they asked. 

Call for nominations when you feel it is appropriate. Doing 
so after five to ten minutes of chit-chat is usually about 
right, but some groups may want to talk for longer or 
shorter. Make sure everyone’s back in their seats at this 
point. 
Say, "I now call for nominations," or something similar. A 
player can nominate someone by simply saying, "I nominate 
Bob," or the like. When you hear a nomination, repeat it 
back to the group—for example, "Sally has nominated Bob." 
This way, everyone knows that you have heard and accepted 
the nomination. 
There are a few limitations on nominations, as follows. If a 
player tries to nominate in a way that’s not allowed, simply 
tell them it’s not allowed. 
Only one player may be nominated at a time. If a 
nomination has been made but not yet voted on, 
another nomination cannot be made yet. 
Only alive players may nominate. Dead players can be 
nominated, but this is almost never wise to do. 
Each player may nominate only once per day, and each 
player may be nominated only once per day. 
Give the nominated player a chance to defend themself 
before tallying the votes upon them. Ten to thirty seconds is 
about right, but longer is okay too. 
Tally the votes. Stand in the center of the circle, holding the 
Grimoire in one hand and holding your other hand out 
straight toward the nominee. Say the name of the player 
and that voting has started. 
Then, slowly spin yourself clockwise, counting aloud the 
number of votes as you go, until you come back to the 
nominee. (Counting aloud helps undecided players make up 
their minds as to whether to vote or not.) The nominee may 
vote for themselves, if they wish - their vote is counted last. 
If a player has their hand up when your hand reaches them, 
that’s a vote. If a player has their hand down, that’s not a 
vote. 
Each alive player may vote for as many players as they 
wish per day. 
Each dead player may vote for only one player 
throughout the rest of the game. 
Declare the result. The vote succeeds if: 
The nominated player got more votes than any other 
nominated player today, and 
The number of votes equals or exceeds half the number 
of alive players. 
 
It is the middle of the game. Six players are alive, and four 
players are dead. Steven gets three votes, so the vote 
succeeds. It doesn't matter whether or not the three 
votes came from alive or dead players—there were three 
votes, which is half of the six alive players. 
If the vote succeeds, declare that the nominated player is 
about to die. This player will be executed today…unless a 
future nominee gets even more votes. Call again for 
nominations and tally the vote for the next nominee, if any. 
(Any player who is about to die may still nominate if they 
have not already nominated today.) 
If the vote fails, the nominated player will not be executed. 
You can call for more nominations, then tally the vote for 
the next nominee. 
If the vote ties with a player nominated earlier today, then 
neither nominated player will be executed. Call again for 
nominations and tally the vote for the next nominee, if any. 
A nominated player must exceed this tied number of votes 
to become “about to die” by execution. 
Give a last call for nominations once you feel there have 
been enough nominations and votes for today. Or if no 
players have nominated today, give them this last reminder 
in case they weren't paying attention. Step into the circle 
and say, "Last call for nominations! Three…two…one…" to 
give the players time to make rash last-minute decisions. If 
no one makes another nomination, then declare that 
nominations are closed for today. 
Execute the player who was about to die. Declare that this 
player dies. 
There is a maximum of one execution per day. After an 
execution, the day phase is effectively over. 
An execution is not required. If the players decide not 
to nominate anyone, or the nominees don’t get enough 
votes, or the voting ended in a tie between two 
nominees, the day ends without an execution. 
When a player dies, place a shroud token on their character 
token in the Grimoire, and remove their night token from 
the night sheet. Ask the player to flip their life token to its 
black side on the Town Square and put a vote token on it. 
Dead players—whether dead by execution, by the Demon, 
or by any other means—follow these rules: 
They immediately lose their ability. Their ability can no 
longer affect the game in any way, and they are not 
woken during the night to act. 
They cannot nominate, and they may only vote once 
for the rest of the game. When they choose to vote 

next, they remove their vote token from their life token. 
Dead players without a vote token cannot vote. 
They still close their eyes during the night, and may still 
talk as much as they want. In fact, because the dead 
players have a voice and a vote, it is usually the dead 
players who decide the final fate of the town. Dead 
players win if their team wins, and lose if their team 
loses, just like alive players. 
When a player dies, is their identity revealed? No. Some 
Storytellers more familiar with other social deduction 
games have a habit of telling the group which character 
the dead player was playing. In Clocktower, the identity 
of the dead remains a mystery. Dead evil players may still 
wreak havoc if they are believed to be good. 
After the execution phase is over, take 30 seconds or so to 
prepare your night phase. Some reminder tokens may need 
to be positioned, or night tokens added or removed. When 
you are ready, declare that the day is over, and ask all 
players to close their eyes. 
Once the first night phase is over, go to the day phase, then 
the night phase again. (Remember to flip over your night 
sheet at the end of your first day phase.) Repeat this until 
one team wins and the game ends. 
In Ravenswood Bluff…death is not the end. If the good team 
wins, all good players win, whether alive or dead. If the evil 
team wins, all evil players win, whether alive or dead. One 
team wins, and the other team loses. There are never any 
neutral players. 
Good wins if the Demon dies. Declare that good has won, 
and encourage any handshakes, hugs, or screams of joy that 
you all wish. 
Evil wins if there are only two players left alive. Declare 
that evil has won, and encourage any fist bumps, finger 
guns, or debauched partying that you wish. (Evil could win 
either because the Demon killed a player or the wrong player 
was executed.) 
If both teams would win at the same time, good wins. For 
example, if the Demon dies but that leaves only two players 
left, the good team wins. 
Does the game always end when the Demon dies? 
Nope! Some characters, such as the Scarlet Woman, keep 
the game going after the Demon dies, without the good 
team knowing what has happened. 
In some intermediate and advanced editions, multiple 
Demons can be alive at once. All Demons must die for 
good to win. Also, some Demons might be good rather 
than evil. The good team still only wins when all the 
Demons are dead, regardless of whether they are good or 
evil. 

You don’t need to read this chapter until you’ve run a game 
or two or if you run into a thorny rules question. 
If the rulebook doesn’t say you can’t do something, you 
can do it. Yes, players can nominate or vote for themselves. 
Yes, the Demon can attack dead players. Yes, good players 
can lie. Yes, if you get to choose “any player” at night, you 
can choose yourself or a dead player. Yes, the dead can talk. 
No, dead players cannot nominate, and may only vote to 
execute if they have a vote token. 
Your word is law. If you are unsure of how to interpret a 
rule, or the players are unsure of what a character's ability 
does, you, the Storyteller, are the final judge. Listen to the 
players, by all means, but when you’re all unsure what the 
gods of Clocktower really meant by that strange wording or 
character combination, make a call and stick by it. Tell your 
players what your judgment is, and play on. 
Character abilities break the core rules in this book. If a 
character’s ability contradicts a core rule in this book, follow 
the character’s ability. There is one exception: abilities 
cannot affect the exiling of Travelers (page 19). 
Each character in Blood on the Clocktower has a unique 
ability, as described on their character token, character 
sheet, and character almanac. The character token and 
character sheet give plain-language versions of the abilities 
that will serve you well in almost all cases, but if you run into 
a conflict or strange interaction between abilities, follow the 
rules written in their character almanac. 
When used, abilities work immediately. For example, if the 
Demon attacks the Fortune Teller, the Fortune Teller dies 
immediately—they do not get to wake up later that night to 
use their ability. Or if the Monk wakes up and protects the 
Empath, then soon after the Demon wakes up and attacks 
the Empath, the Empath does not die. 
Only tell the player what their character’s ability says they 
learn. Secrets are secret. If the Imp dies and the Scarlet 
Woman becomes the Imp, do the other players learn that 
this has happened? No. If the Slayer uses their ability and 
nothing happens, do the players learn that the Slayer is the 
Slayer? No. If the Monk protects the Washerwoman, does 
the Washerwoman learn that she was protected? No. When 
the night ends, do players learn which ability killed which 
player? No, they only learn which players died, not how. 
Abilities are lost immediately on death, poisoning, or 
drunkenness. If a character dies, they lose their ability 
immediately and any of its persistent effects end, so you can 
remove their reminder tokens. For example, if a Poisoner 
poisons the Slayer at night, then the Poisoner dies later that 
same night, the Slayer is no longer poisoned. Even though 
the Poisoner's ability says that it lasts "until dusk,” once the 
Poisoner dies, they lose their ability and its persistent effect 
ends. 
If a player is drunk or poisoned, it is usually best to not 
remove their reminder tokens, in case they become sober 
and healthy again, but you can ignore them for the time 
being since drunk or poisoned players have no ability, just 
like they were dead. For example, if the Innkeeper protects 
the Chambermaid, but then the Innkeeper becomes drunk, 
the Chambermaid stops being protected. Or if Steven 
poisons Amy, and then Evin poisons Steven, then Amy is no 
longer poisoned. 
Some character’s keep all or part of their ability when they 
die. If the ability says “even if dead” or otherwise implies 
that the characters ability works while dead, it does so. This 
ability is still lost if the player becomes drunk or poisoned. 
The Ravenkeeper is killed at night, then uses their ability. 
Their ability says “If you die at night, you are woken to 
choose a player: you learn their character”. Even though 
the Ravenkeeper is dead, they still have their ability for a 
short while, because the character text implies it. 
If an ability does not say "choose," the Storyteller makes 
the decision. For example, if an ability on a character token 
or sheet says "a player is poisoned each night,” then the 
Storyteller chooses who. If the ability says "Each night, 
choose a player: they are poisoned,” that means that 
character’s player chooses. 
If a player tries to use their ability incorrectly, let them 
know. Tell them verbally if it is day, or shake your head if it 
is night. The Monk may not choose themselves, but if the 
Monk player chooses themselves, shake your head no, then 
motion for them to choose a different player. The 
Chambermaid must choose alive players, but if the 
Chambermaid player chooses a dead player, shake your 
head no and motion for them to choose again. 
In Blood on the Clocktower, players can be lots of things—
this character or that one, drunk or sober, alive or dead, 
healthy or poisoned. (Of course, we don’t mean literally.) 
These are called states. Basically, they’re permanent 
elements of a player that are independent from each other. 

For example, if you’re drunk and change your character, you 
stay drunk. If you’re poisoned, you can be drunk too. 
 
At any given time, a player is either alive or dead. Generally, 
players die during the day from execution and die at night 
from characters’ abilities. 
Execution is different from death. Sometimes, a player may 
be executed but remain alive rather than die. Players may 
be executed multiple times, and even dead players may be 
executed again, just to be sure. Regardless of whether the 
group executes an alive or dead player, this counts as the 
one execution allowed for the day. 
A dead player cannot die again. If a dead player is attacked 
by the Demon, for example, they do not die again, and the 
group does not learn that they died last night. 
At any given time, a player is either good or evil. Generally, a 
character starts as either good or evil, but their alignment 
may change. Sometimes, a Townsfolk will be evil. 
Sometimes, a Demon will be good. 
If a good player has an evil character, or an evil player has a 
good character, turn their character token upside down to 
remind you that the player’s alignment is opposite to the color 
of the token. 
Character is independent of alignment. If a player changes 
alignment, their character stays the same, and vice versa. 
For example, if the Goon becomes evil, they’re still the 
Goon. Or if the Pit-Hag turns the good Juggler into the 
Witch, then the Witch is still good. 
The player learns of changes… If a player’s alignment or 
character changes, they learn this at the earliest 
opportunity, in secret. You will usually show the "You are" 
info token and then their new character or alignment. The 
night sheet for the relevant edition will tell you when an 
alignment or character changes, prompting you to wake the 
changed player and inform them. 
…with a few exceptions. Sometimes, a player thinks they 
are a different character or alignment from their true 
character or alignment. For example, the Drunk and the 
Lunatic are designed to not know who they really are. 
At any given time, a player is either sober or drunk, and 
either poisoned or healthy. Being drunk and being poisoned 
are the same thing. Alive and dead players alike can be 
drunk or poisoned. 
A drunk or poisoned player loses their ability. A drunk 
Slayer cannot slay anybody, a poisoned Demon cannot kill 
anyone, a drunk Virgin cannot cause an execution with their 
ability, a drunk Courtier cannot poison anyone. If a player 
tries to use their “once per game” ability while drunk or 
poisoned, they do not get to use it again. It is gone. 
They can get their ability back. If a drunk player becomes 
sober again, or if a poisoned player becomes healthy again, 
they regain their ability. That said, if they used their “once 
per game” ability already, then tough luck. 
Do not tell them they are drunk or poisoned! Instead, act 
just like they’re sober and healthy. For example, a drunk 
Monk still wakes each night and chooses a player to 
protect…but that player won’t be protected. A poisoned 
Demon still wakes to attack a player, but nobody dies, and 
the Demon won’t know exactly why. Sometimes you may 
want to hint to them that they are drunk or poisoned, such 
as showing the Undertaker that the Mayor got executed, 
when nobody is claiming to be the Mayor, but such times 
are exceedingly rare. 
You can give them false information. If their ability gives 
them information, you can give them false information. For 
example, a drunk Empath still wakes each night and gets 
shown a finger signal, but you can show the wrong number 
of fingers. A poisoned Undertaker gets shown the character 
token of the player who died by execution today, but you 
can show the wrong character token. You don’t have to give 
incorrect info, but you can—and you usually should! 
Drunkenness and poisoning do not cancel out. A poisoned 
drunk does not become sober or healthy! They’re just both 
poisoned and drunk. 
Abilities used on a drunk or poisoned player work 
normally. For example, an Empath correctly learns the 
alignment of their drunk neighbors. A Fortune Teller 
correctly identifies a poisoned Demon. If the Duchess—a 
Fabled character that grants information to three players—is 
visited by a poisoned Slayer, then the Slayer gains correct 
information. In this case, the Duchess's ability is working 
properly, while the Slayer has no ability. 
Always give correct information about the rules, even to 
drunk or poisoned players. They need to be able to trust you 
at least that much. 
Tips. To run drunkenness and poisoning well, listen to the 
bluffs of the evil players, and support those bluffs 
wherever possible. For example, if the drunk Ravenkeeper 
chooses to learn about Dave, who is the Baron, but 

bluffing as the Mayor. You can help the evil team if you 
show the Ravenkeeper the Mayor token. If the drunk 
Ravenkeeper instead chooses to learn about a good 
player, it can be helpful to show an evil character token 
instead. Normally, you should make drunkenness and 
poisoning as harmful as possible to the drunk or poisoned 
player. 
Madness is introduced in the Sects & Violets edition. It’s 
fairly rare, with only about a dozen characters that cause 
madness over the many editions. It is more like a real-world 
state than a game-state. You can not look in the Grimoire 
and see which characters are mad or not, but you can watch 
and listen to what people are saying to determine if players 
are mad or not. 
When a player is mad about something, that means they’re 
trying to convince the group that something is true. Some 
players are instructed to be mad about something, and 
some players are instructed to not be mad about something. 
When a player is instructed to be mad about something, 
but they aren’t, the Storyteller might give them a penalty. 
Likewise, if they are mad about it, the Storyteller might give 
them a bonus. The specific instructions, benefits and 
penalties of madness are written on the character token, or 
on the character sheet. 
The Mutant’s ability is “If you are mad about being an 
Outsider, then you might be executed.” Alex, the Mutant 
player, is trying to convince the group that he is the 
Mutant, an Outsider character, so he is mad about being 
an Outsider. Alex might say something obvious, like "I am 
the Mutant!” or "I am not a Townsfolk…but I’m not going 
to tell you my character." In this case, the Storyteller is 
welcome to execute him. 
Alex may instead try something more subtle. He might 
say something like "I am not going to tell you who I am, 
but I'm definitely not the Mutant" with a mischievous grin 
on his face, or he may even say nothing at all while other 
players accuse him of being the Mutant. In either case, 
the Storyteller may judge that Alex is trying to convince 
the group that he is the Mutant. In the first case, he is 
saying one thing and meaning another. In the second 
case, he is saying nothing at all but hoping that, because 
of it, the group will conclude that he is the Mutant. In 
either case, the Storyteller might execute him. 
Similarly, even if the Storyteller doesn’t spot Alex telling 
anyone that he is an Outsider, but an evil player comes up 
to the Storyteller in private and says, “Alex told me he is 
the Mutant,” then that’s evidence enough that he’s is 
trying to convince the group that he is the Mutant, so the 
Storyteller can execute him. 
The Cerenovus’s ability tells a player that they should be 
mad about being a specific character or else they are 
executed. The Cerenovus chooses Amy to be mad about 
being the Sage, so Amy should do her best to convince 
the group that she is the Sage, or else she risks being 
executed. 
Amy simply sits there and says nothing, so she has 
certainly acted the way a Sage would act—staying 
quiet—but she has not tried to convince the group that 
she was in fact the Sage. Something much more 
convincing would be required—a great start would be 
saying "I'm the Sage. I lied about who I was yesterday so 
that the Demon would attack me, but alas, it didn't work. 
But, yes, no lies, I am the Sage." Because the Storyteller 
believes that Amy isn’t trying very hard to convince 
people that she is the Sage, the Storyteller is free to 
execute her. 
Players are never forced to be mad. Players may say 
whatever they want at any time – they are never compelled 
to say anything they do not wish to say. With madness, 
however, they are incentivized to say particular things and 
disincentivized to say others. If a player flat out says, "I am 
mad," or otherwise heavily implies it, then the Storyteller 
can give them the appropriate penalty, or remove the 
appropriate benefit. This kind of statement is usually a 
player's way of saying "I do not wish to be mad about this 
thing, and I would rather take the penalty." Even if a player 
merely implies that they are mad, that counts. 
A previously mad player can talk about it without penalty. 
Once they are no longer mad, players can let the group 
know that they were mad without suffering the 
consequences. For example, a player that was picked by the 
Cerenovus two nights ago, but not last night, can happily tell 
the group this without fear of execution. A dead Mutant no 
longer has their ability, so need not fear its consequences. 
You, the Storyteller, are the final judge about who is and 
who is not behaving madly. There are no rules about what 
must or must not be said. What matters is what you think 
that the player is trying to do. 
Returning to the Mutant example above, if you think that 
the player is genuinely trying to convince the group that 
they are not the Mutant, they are not mad about being the 
Mutant. But if you think they are trying to convince the 
group that they are an Outsider, however subtly, then it's 
curtains for them. Execute them at will. 
Returning to the Cerenovus example above, if you think that 
the player instructed to be mad by the Cerenovus is 

genuinely doing their best to convince the group (verbally) 
that they are the Sage, then they are mad that they are the 
Sage, and therefore safe. But if you believe that they are just 
half-heartedly saying a few token words, and that they 
pretty much expect to be disbelieved, or even if you think 
that they are doing their best to be disbelieved, then they 
pay the penalty of being executed at your leisure. 
Generally, be firm in your judgment. If players come to 
believe that all they need to do is put in a half-assed effort 
to avoid the madness penalty, then that's what they'll do. 
It's not the end of the world if this happens, but the fun in 
being mad is in being forced to spread lies and 
misinformation to your own team…and to not be able to 
own up to it until you are sane again! 
Advanced players should know how to play madness well, 
while beginner players may be confused. Take this into 
consideration whether deciding whether or not to penalize a 
player for madness. For example, if Abdallah, an advanced 
player, is instructed to be mad about being the Flowergirl, 
then he better be telling the group which days the Demon 
voted and did not vote. If Abdallah was truly the Flowergirl 
and had revealed his character to the group, there would be 
little reason for him to withhold his Flowergirl information. 
Abdallah is an advanced player, so he should not be getting 
any free passes. If he puts in a solid effort in convincing the 
group he actually is the Flowergirl, then he lives! 
Beginner players should be given a little more leeway. As 
long as you believe they are putting in a genuine effort to 
convince the group, then you can be more forgiving. Players 
don’t have to actually convince anyone to be classified as 
mad…they just need to put in a sincere-looking effort. 
Travelers are characters for players who turn up late or will 
need to leave early. Travelers tend to have extremely 
effective abilities, but gain little information. They have 
maximum power and minimum responsibility. 
To include a Traveler in your game, do the following: 
1) Let the Player Choose a Traveler. Take the player aside 
and give them the Traveler sheet, which is kept under the 
Town Square. This sheet details which Travelers are 
available for this game and what their abilities are. Ask the 
player to choose one Traveler to play. 
For example, the five recommended Travelers for Trouble 
Brewing 
are 
the 
Scapegoat, 
Beggar, 
Gunslinger, 
Bureaucrat, and Thief. The five recommended characters 
all work well for the edition you are playing. You can offer 
Travelers that are recommended for a different edition 
instead, but they may not interact well with the 
characters in the edition you are playing. For example, if 
you add an evil Apprentice to Trouble Brewing, and the 
only Minion that the Apprentice can become is the Baron, 
the Apprentice ability is wasted. If the Apprentice can 
become the Poisoner, well, that's a different story. Use 
your judgment about which Travelers you wish to include 
if you go outside the recommended five. 
2) Choose Alignment. Tell the Traveler player in private 
whether they are good or evil. If you made the Traveler evil, 
they learn which player is the Demon, but not which players 
are the Minions. 
3) Adjust Grimoire. Prompt the Traveler to sit down, then 
put their Traveler character token in your Grimoire to match 
their seating position. Put evil Traveller tokens upside-down, 
and good Traveller tokens right-way-up. 
4) Place Life Token. Put the Traveler’s life token on the 
Town Square. The Traveler's life token is grey, not white. 
(This represents that they are a Traveler, and it helps the 
good team remember that Travelers do not count as players 
for evil's "win when two players are alive" victory condition.) 
5) Inform Group. Declare that a Traveler is now in play, 
which player and which character it is, and what their ability 
is. (Do not declare their alignment.) 
Travelers may enter the game at any time. Since Clocktower 
games usually go for about an hour and can include up to 20 
people, someone who turns up ten minutes late can join in 
the fun when they arrive. They can play a Traveler even if 
they join five minutes after you have set up the game, but 
before you start the first night—just make sure they close 
their eyes on the first night, then let them choose a Traveler 
on the first day. 
That said, we don’t recommend adding Travelers if the game 
is nearly finished. Consider adding a Traveler only if there 
are seven or more players alive. Adding a Traveler to the 
game on the last day, or even the second-to-last day, may 
lead players to feel that their win or loss was due to an 
unfair last-minute addition, not their own efforts. 
Travelers can join the game before the first night, if you 
wish. They will act on the first night if so. For all games 
larger than 15 players, Travelers are included in the game 
and begin at the same time as the other players. 
If a player needs to leave before the game ends, and is kind 
enough to tell you at the time the game is being set up, you 
can give them a Traveler instead. This player may leave at 
any time—when they do, simply remove their character 

token from the Grimoire, and remove their life token from 
the Town Square. We recommend giving Travelers to these 
players because a game cannot continue if the Demon 
leaves partway through… and you never know which player 
will be the Demon. 
Make Travelers good most of the time. You want to keep 
the game balanced, so travelers should be evil only about a 
third of the time, since an evil Traveler gives the evil team an 
extra vote, which is very powerful. Adding multiple evil 
Travelers can be devastating. Adding multiple good 
Travelers does give the good team some extra votes, but the 
good Travelers do not know who is good or evil, unlike the 
evil Travelers. 
So, if just 1 Traveler joins the game, they should almost 
always be good. If 2 Travelers join your game, they can both 
be good, but it is usually most interesting to make 1 of them 
evil. If 3, 4 or 5 Travelers enter the game, making 1 or 
sometimes 2 of them evil is usually about right. 
However, this is totally up to you. If you are running a game 
with 15 players, and 8 players are still alive, but all the 
Minions are dead, feel free to make more Travelers evil than 
usual. Or if the good team is getting hammered, make all the 
Travelers good. Every so often, though, make the only 
Traveler in a game evil, just to keep the players guessing 
what you are up to! 
Travelers work the same as other characters in most ways. 
They may nominate, may vote, may act at night, may be 
killed by the Demon, register as normal characters, lose their 
abilities when dead or drunk or poisoned, and even get a 
vote token when they die. For example, an Empath sitting 
between two Travelers will detect the alignment of those 
Travelers. If the Demon attacks a Traveler, that Traveler 
dies. Travelers differ from normal characters only in the 
ways described below. 
Travelers do not count toward the evil team winning when 
just two players remain alive. For example, if five players 
are still alive, but three of them are Travelers, then evil wins. 
Why? This rule exists because everybody knows that 
Travelers cannot be the Demon. Since they arrived late, 
the Demon was already decided upon. Travelers get a 
differently colored life token to put on the Town Square 
to remind all players of this. 
Travelers are exiled, not executed. Anytime during the day, 
you can call for an exile of a Traveler, forcing them to die in 
the wasteland beyond. Any players, even dead ones, may 
call for an exile. They may do so before the Storyteller has 
asked for nominations, or afterward, when nominations 
normally occur. Calling for an exile is not a nomination, so a 
player who calls for an exile may also nominate someone on 
the same day. 
When a player calls for an exile, all the players decide on 
whether they support or oppose the exile. This group 
decision works the same as a vote for execution—with 
players raising hands, counted by the Storyteller—but it is 
not considered a vote. 
Any player, even dead ones, may support the exile of a 
Traveler. Dead players that support an exile do not lose their 
vote token. 
The process to exile a Traveler is not affected by abilities. It 
is purely a group decision. For example, characters that 
modify votes (Thief, Bureaucrat, etc.) do not modify support 
for exile. Even the Butler may raise their hand to support an 
exile without their Master raising their hand. 
If at least half of the players support the exile, it succeeds, 
and the exiled Traveler dies. This counts the total number of 
players in the game, not the number of alive players. 
Any number of Travelers may be exiled in a day. Exiles are 
not executions, so an execution may still occur today. 
Like in executions, each Traveler can only be called to exile 
once per day. The players may believe that a Traveler is evil, 
and want to kill them, but if there is not enough support to 
exile them today, then they will have to try again tomorrow. 
For more information on what specific Travelers do and 
how they can benefit your game, read the Travelers & 
Fabled Almanac. 
The Fabled are for you, the Storyteller. They’re more like a 
special rule than a character all on their own. They let 
players join in a game of Clocktower when they would 
otherwise not be able to, or they help the game run 
smoother when a real-world issue comes up. The Fabled fix 
problems that are outside the usual boundaries of the game. 
For example, if a player has an intellectual disability that 
would normally mean they wouldn’t be able to understand 
the game rules or communicate with the group, a Fabled can 
allow them to join in. If a new player is worrying they will die 
early, a Fabled can protect them. If there are too many 
players for the time available, a Fabled can make the game 
run faster. If someone is shy or soft-spoken and has trouble 
getting the group’s attention, a Fabled can give them the 
floor without interruption. If the game needs to end earlier 
than expected, a Fabled can decide a winner. If you’ve made 

your own character list using the Script Tool (page 26), a 
Fabled can help it be more fun. 
Use the Fabled only when you need them. They can be 
incredibly useful in helping your games be more enjoyable 
and accessible to players of all sorts, but adding them willy-
nilly to every game is unnecessary and gets old quickly. 
To include a Fabled in your game, simply choose one, tell 
the group which Fabled is in play, and put the Fabled 
character token in the center of the Grimoire as a reminder 
about what the character does. Some Fabled are added at 
the start of the game, while others can be added and 
removed at any time. You may add multiple Fabled if you 
wish. 
The Fabled cannot die or lose their ability. You are the 
Storyteller, not a player, so your Fabled are immune to all 
game effects, including death, drunkenness, and poisoning. 
Like Travelers, the Fabled do not count as players for the 
“two players remain alive” victory condition for the evil 
For more information on what specific Fabled do and how 
they can benefit your game, read the Travelers & Fabled 
Almanac. 

 
You can end the game when victory is certain for one team. 
If all remaining players are evil, then good cannot nominate 
the Demon, so you can declare that evil wins. 
Almost every time there are four players left alive, and the 
good players execute a non-Demon player, you can end the 
game there. If you were to continue the game after this 
execution, with just three players alive, then the Demon 
would kill one of those players at night, ending the game. 
There is little point in going through this process, as evil 
already knows they have won. However, if a Monk or a 
Soldier is still alive, then the Demon may not end up killing a 
player that night, leading to another day of executions after 
all. 
Use your best judgment when declaring a game over in this 
way. If there is any way for the losing team to win—however 
unlikely it is—then keep the game going. 
During the night, confirm players’ choices with a 
downward finger point. Sometimes, players will point at 
another player very quickly, or will point from an angle that 
makes it hard for you to determine which player they want 
to choose. Instead of guessing their intentions, walk to the 
player you think they chose and point to them as well, 
pointing vertically and downwards while your hand is above 
them. This makes it very clear to the choosing player that 
you want to confirm their choice. The choosing player nods 
to you. You nod to the choosing player. You both 
understand exactly which player is the target. 
This practice, or whatever works for you, is a good habit to 
get into, as it avoids easy misunderstandings. 
Moving around unnecessarily at night can put crafty players 
off your scent. If you always walk to the same part of the 
circle the first thing each night, and your shoes make noise, 
then players may be understandably suspicious that the 
Demon is sitting in that area. If you walk to different areas of 
the circle at random intervals, any noise you make will not 
give away what is really happening. 
Moving around tokens in the Grimoire is something you 
may need to do when good players use their abilities, such 
as the Slayer or the Juggler. When evil players bluff as these 
characters, pretend to move tokens around the Grimoire in 
the same manner. Veteran players will not be able to tell by 
looking at your hand motions whether the player in question 
is bluffing or not. 
Quietly tap the shoulders or knees of the players that need 
to wake. If your tapping makes noise, neighboring players 
may hear and get suspicious of the tapped player. If the 
player is wearing thick clothing and cannot feel light taps, 
then press noticeably with your hand twice instead. 
Keep the Grimoire level when moving about. The high sides 
of the Grimoire should keep its contents hidden from the 
players’ view as long as you don't tip the Grimoire at a steep 
angle. Players may need to be seated below the eye level of 
the top of the Grimoire in order to avoid accidentally seeing 
inside. 
Hold the Grimoire by the strong center pillar from above or 
underneath. This way, you can have a free hand to move 
tokens around. Don’t hold the Grimoire by the left and right 
edges alone, as this will cause the book to snap 
closed...which could send tokens flying everywhere! 
Transport your Grimoire with the spine facing down. If you 
put your Grimoire in a bag, having all its weight on the 
strong spine of the box will help prevent fraying or bending 
of the box corners, and keep the game in good condition. 
Step into the circle, completely or in part, to make sure that 
you are seen and heard when doing important things like 
running a vote or saying “Last call for nominations! 
3…2…1…”. You don’t want to hog the limelight and demand 
attention at the expense of the players’ fun, so this visual 
cue—being in the center of the circle—is an easy way to let 
the group know you are doing something important. 
If you make a mistake, just play on and do your best. Don't 
try to "balance the game" by giving the opposite team some 
benefit. This is awkward to do well, and means that the 
good players can often backtrack and find out what your 
mistake was by figuring out which team benefitted by your 
correction and how. 
All Storytellers make mistakes at some point. It happens. 
Maybe you let the Solder be killed by the Demon? Maybe 
you forgot the Mayor was the Drunk, and declared that 
good won because of it? Just roll with it. If the mistake 
benefitted the winning team, then an apology to the losing 
team might be in order. If the mistake benefitted the losing 
team, then extra congratulations to the winning team! 
It is usually best to tell the group that you made a mistake, 
but not tell them what the mistake was. This way, they have 
enough information to work with, but not so much that it is 
a detriment to the opposing team. 

One exception here: If you forget to wake a player that 
should have woken during the night, you can either 
temporarily put all players back to sleep in the morning and 
wake just that player, or you can request a private chat with 
that player and resolve their ability then. For example, if you 
forgot to wake the Butler, either put all players to sleep and 
resolve the Butler’s ability, or just take the Butler aside and 
ask who they wanted to choose as their Master last night. If 
you think that you can fix a mistake in this way, go for it. 
If you relax and take your time when setting up each night 
phase, you'll find that mistakes get less and less frequent. If 
you find that you are being rushed, relax and take your time. 
If you are confused about something, you guessed it: relax 
and take your time. 
It is often best to answer questions privately. Most players’ 
questions will be about their character. When talking 
privately, you can be more candid and responsive. When 
answering player questions publicly, remember to refer to 
the name of the player, not their character, and to talk in 
such a way that does not reveal excess information to the 
group. For example, if the Empath asks you publicly, "What 
did the one-finger hand signal mean last night?” and you 
answer "It meant a one,” then you have publicly confirmed 
that the Empath is the Empath. Or if a Monk asks, "How 
many players can I choose at night?” and you say "One,” 
then you have revealed too much. In private, these 
conversations can happen much more easily. 
Discourage players from talking about their characters 
before the first night begins. You may even want to ban this 
behavior. If players consistently reveal their characters 
before the Demon has received its three not-in-play 
characters to bluff as, then that pressures the Demon to 
reveal who they are before they are ready. Even though it 
goes against the "You may say whatever you want at any 
time" rule, stopping good players from using this strategy 
may be necessary. Most players understand that the game 
has not really begun until the first night begins, and will not 
do this. However, if it becomes an issue, either ask players 
to not do it, or put the Hell's Librarian, one of the Fabled 
(page 19), into play. 
You may have to do the same thing if players continually talk 
about their abilities during the night while they are using 
them. If players narrate their own abilities during the 
night—saying things like "I am waking now. I am learning 
that the executed player was the Soldier."—then it can be 
extremely difficult for evil players to bluff, as they would 
have to narrate actions during the night while they are 
actually asleep. Instinctually, most players realize that the 
night phase is a time to stay silent, or at least not to talk 
about their own actions until morning. However, if it 
becomes an issue, either ask players to not do it or put the 
Hell's Librarian into play. 
It is best to keep the players in the circle while they are 
playing. This prevents players from wandering all over the 
place, which causes difficulty getting everyone together 
when nominations are called. Keeping players within the 
circle also encourages veterans to talk to newer players and 
for newer players to talk to each other. The last thing that 
you want is your veterans wandering off in ones and twos, 
leaving a new player sitting in the circle alone. 
This also encourages players to leave their seats to talk in 
private to players on the opposite side of the circle, as 
everybody is close together. Players having private 
conversations with each other can be a huge part of some 
games, and is something that really adds new levels of 
strategy to both good and evil's arsenal of tricks. 
If you have spare moments during the day phase, you can 
read the text on the in-play character tokens. This will help 
you learn exactly how each character works and how they 
interact with the other characters in play. This is surprisingly 
useful when running a new edition for the first time. Some 
character text is subtle, and you may not notice everything 
on first reading. You usually only need to know how the in-
play characters work. All other characters on the character 
sheet have little or no bearing on the game. 
You can ask, "How would you like to die?" to a player just 
before they are executed. Doing this in public allows the 
dying player to come up with all sorts of interesting and 
amusing ways that they would like to be executed. Some 
players will want to take a long walk off a cliff, while many 
will request death by more pleasurable means. 
If you like, you can narrate the details of their death in 
response. If you do so, it is best to keep things short, funny, 
and lighthearted. Don't make it awkward. For example, if a 
player answers, "I die by getting stabbed in the back, at a 
banquet in my honor," you can narrate this death by saying 
something like "Well...the Townsfolk all gather together and 
hold a big feast, and while you’re giving a speech, somebody 
stabs you in the back with a cake fork, but you had already 
died of boredom from the speeches earlier in the night." If 
you instead respond with a detailed description of which 
bones and muscles tear and how painful it is, this will simply 
gross people out and make them uncomfortable in 
continuing to play your games in the future. 
Keep the vibe fun and frivolous if you can. Say nothing at all 
if you can't. Remember that people may have all sorts of 
things they are squeamish talking about in public, 

particularly anything sexual or too personal. This kind of 
witty banter with the group requires a good feeling for what 
is and is not appropriate for your group. 
You can narrate as much or as little of the game as you 
wish. When the game begins, setting the scene with a little 
flair, such as "It was a dark and stormy night…" can add 
suspense and tone to your game. Also, giving context and 
story to a player's death at night, or adding little verbal 
touches to the gathering of the Townsfolk during the day 
can set your game up as something special. This requires 
some skill with words as well as creativity and an ability to 
think on your feet. Thankfully, it is entirely unnecessary. If 
you are uncomfortable, then skip this. A mostly silent 
Storyteller can still create perfectly functional and exciting 
games. The players themselves will create most of their own 
fun. 
Don't break the rules. Even if it seems like it might be 
exciting to do so. Don't simply decide that players should die 
instead of remain alive, or put in more or fewer Minions or 
Outsiders. The good players are relying on all the 
information available to win. If they base their logic on 
incorrect information, but they have no way of knowing that 
their information is incorrect, then they are simply guessing, 
and it will not be fun for them. Even if you think it might be 
wacky to secretly not put a Demon in play, to add a Drunk 
out of the blue, or to alter some other important rule, the 
players will probably not appreciate this, as they will feel like 
a victory was not fairly won, or a loss unfairly thrust upon 
them. 
There are over 200 characters in the complete Blood on the 
Clocktower collection, and one of them will do that crazy 
thing you want to do, in a way that is fun and fair. 
Let players make their own decisions. During the night, 
players will sometimes seem to make odd choices. The 
Fortune Teller may choose the same players each night. A 
Monk may protect a dead player. The Demon may attack a 
revealed Ravenkeeper. The Poisoner may poison the 
Demon. You never know what the player in question might 
be thinking, and it is best to not nudge them toward 
choosing what you think is best. In the above examples, the 
Fortune Teller may be testing to see if they are drunk, the 
Monk may want a death tonight so that three players 
remain alive for a Mayor victory, the Demon may want to 
get the Ravenkeeper out of the way early, and the Poisoner 
may be about to bluff as the Soldier and use the fact that no 
death occurred as evidence. If you let the players make their 
own choices, they may not be the best choices, but they 
own them. 
Dealing with negative behavior is something you may have 
to do sooner or later. 
As is the case with all social gatherings, sometimes a player 
will speak in a disrespectful tone to another player. Blood on 
the Clocktower is a social game, which means social tools are 
useful in playing it. There are good, fun ones like charm or 
humor, but one or two players may get a little caught up in 
the excitement and revert to some of the more negative 
social tools, such as shouting, bullying, or emotional 
blackmail. Any player behavior that is unpleasant or 
otherwise destructive to the good vibe of the game should 
be nipped in the bud. This type of behavior is not 
acceptable, as other players may feel uncomfortable at best 
or argumentative and victimized at worst. Every player 
deserves to be in an environment where they feel accepted, 
respected, and able to make their own decisions. 
If you encounter negative behavior, take the player aside for 
a private chat. Explain to them that their tone and behavior 
might be unpleasant to one or more players. Stress that the 
problem is not the person, but the behavior. Most players 
will immediately change how they interact with others, as 
they hadn’t realized how heated they were getting. They 
probably saw their actions as enthusiastic or intense, and 
will appreciate that you took them aside to let them know 
otherwise. 
Players that verbally justify their own bullying or aggression 
and put the blame on others should not be welcome at any 
future games you run until they can overcome this 
tendency. 
Similarly, players that feign offense and hurt feelings might 
be using negative social tools. For example, if a player 
pretends to be really annoyed, hurt, or angry at being 
nominated for execution, that can cause a bad vibe for the 
game. An upbeat, fun, and respectful mood is more 
important than either team winning or losing. Period. 
More importantly, you need to know whether any in-game 
expression of distress is genuine, so that you can act 
appropriately and compassionately to help resolve a 
situation. If a player abuses that trust by pretending to be 
genuinely upset when they are not, you should have a quiet 
word with that player to encourage them not to do so again. 
Judging what is and isn't offensive or unpleasant can be 
tricky, so use your best judgment. Censoring certain topics 
of conversation rarely goes well, as it is usually a player’s 
tone, not their words, that are problematic to others. 
Swearing, smack-talking, or vulgar or contentious subjects 
might be fine depending on your group. Personal attacks, 
insults, or anything that makes a player feel unsafe, hurt, or 
unheard are not. 
Taboo subjects or subjects perceived as taboo—such as 
death, sexuality, gender, and the occult—may be a barrier 
for some people to play. Similarly, particular characters may 

offend some people or make others uncomfortable with 
playing. Whilst those uncomfortable with games involving 
taboo subjects in general may be better off finding a 
different game to play, you can cater to players with strong 
dislikes for particular characters by making your own 
character lists, with exactly the characters you want in play 
and none that you don't. For more on this, read “The Script 
Tool” (page 26). 
Shy players, paradoxically, tend to very much enjoy the 
intense social interaction of Clocktower. Many will stay silent 
and simply listen, taking part every so often by revealing 
information and putting their vote to good use. However, 
they may let other players interrupt them when trying to 
talk, or their voice may simply not be loud and dominant 
enough to get the group's attention. 
If you notice a player in this situation, give them the floor 
every so often. Silence the rest of the group and allow the 
shy player to say what they wish to say uninterrupted. Never 
demand that the shy player speak—simply ask if they wish 
to. 
The best time to do this is when the shy player has been 
nominated, as this is when the group’s attention is mostly 
on them anyway. Even saying "You have been nominated. 
What do you have to say?" can be the prompt they need to 
talk and be listened to, without you needing to silence the 
rest of the group at all. 
Gradually, over several games, you will probably find that 
the previously shy player gains a sense of confidence and 
begins to participate more. 
Talkative players. Don’t silence a player unless the rest of 
the group is silenced too. Telling a talkative player to be 
quiet while letting everyone else speak will lead that player 
to feel they are being treated unfairly, which they have 
been. Clocktower is a game about talking, after all. If you 
need to silence a notorious chatterbox so that you can be 
heard, or so a shy player can be heard, then silence the rest 
of the group as well. 
Get the game to last until the final day if you can. Games of 
Clocktower are at their most exciting when there are just 
three or four players alive, and a right or wrong execution 
can mean victory or defeat. Games that end at this point 
tend to have more tension, more drama, and a bigger cheer 
for the victorious team. So…how do you help the game get 
to the final day? 
Help the weaker team as much as possible. As the 
Storyteller, you are not exempt from the rules, but there are 
many places where you can decide to give the weaker team 
an invisible stroke of luck. 
Is evil absolutely stomping good? You can give the drunk 
Empath correct information some nights, or make the Spy 
that is executed register as the Spy to the Undertaker. 
Maybe when the Mayor is attacked at night, you could kill a 
Minion instead of a Townsfolk? 
Is good absolutely demolishing evil? Think carefully about 
what information you give to drunk or poisoned Townsfolk. 
The wrong information at the right time can swing the fate 
of a game dramatically. 
It is never a good idea to flat-out decide the winning team 
by exploiting a game rule. It’s pretty unfair to end the game 
by killing the Tinker or by having an attacked Mayor kill the 
last evil player alive, for instance. However, a player that has 
been told to be mad by the Cerenovus can end the game by 
being executed, because that's a player’s choice much more 
than your choice. Do what will create the most interesting 
game and the most climactic finish that the players feel they 
earned themselves. 
Listen to the bluffs of the evil players and run your game 
accordingly. If the Imp is claiming to be the Slayer and wants 
to use their ability, make sure it looks like their ability just 
didn't work. Put in the same effort as if they were actually 
the Slayer! If the Spy is claiming to be the Fortune Teller, 
and is chosen by the Ravenkeeper, then choose the Fortune 
Teller to be the good character that the Spy registers as. 
Evil players rely on you every so often to help make their lies 
sound like the truth. Help them out wherever you can. 
For example, if an evil player is claiming to be the Virgin and 
is nominated, nothing will happen. To make it look like the 
evil player was actually the Virgin, you can move your hands 
around the Grimoire to make it look like you are putting the 
Virgin's "No ability" reminder token by the character token. 
After all, if the real Virgin was nominated, this is what you 
would be doing. Beginner players won't pick up on this 
subtlety, but veterans might. 
To encourage a big and exultant celebration at the end of 
the game, declare the victory with some flair. Simply saying 
"evil wins" in a quiet voice out of the blue doesn't really 
encourage the evil team to jump up and start high-fiving 
each other. Giving the announcement some dramatic pause, 
getting the group’s attention before speaking in an 
authoritative voice, or telling the players that high-fives and 
hugs are acceptable can all be great ways to allow your 
winning team to celebrate in the way they’d like. It's their 
victory. They've earned it. And once you have experienced 
the thrill of winning as the Demon in a 15+ player game, 
you'll know how cathartic it can be to cut loose in 
celebration at this point. Even an unexpected loss after a 
game this size will be remembered for months to come. 

Allow creative and unexpected strategies. Clocktower is a 
game that can be extremely fun when a player goes beyond 
what is normally accepted in a social deduction game. 
Maybe your evil players start texting each other during the 
game? That's fine. Maybe good players keep lying through 
their teeth about who is who, in order to put evil off the 
scent? That's great! Maybe players come back from talking 
to you in private, and tell the group something different 
from what you said to them? Super! Maybe the Spy took a 
photo of the Grimoire? Crafty! The more creative your 
players get, the better. 
The exceptions to this rule are obvious. Bullying and 
shaming are never acceptable, and the rules of the game 
must be followed. Also, deals that involve factors outside of 
the game should always be discouraged. A player offering 
real money for votes, or promising some service after the 
game ends, is not fun. Keep the vibe friendly and you'll have 
no problems. Basically, if the behavior is unorthodox and 
creative and makes the game more interesting, allow it. If 
you think that a behavior will make the game worse if it is 
continued, feel free to disallow it. 
Waking the Demon and the Minions together at the same 
time at start of the game can be fun for the evil players to 
learn who each other are. They get to make eye contact and 
share a moment of devilish camaraderie. 
Instead of waking the Minions and pointing to the Demon, 
then waking the Demon and pointing to the Minions, just 
wake everyone together. You will still need to show the 
"This is the Demon" and "These are your Minions" info 
tokens, so that the players know who the Demon is. You will 
also need to put the Minions back to sleep before showing 
the Demon the three not-in-play character tokens as bluffs. 
So yeah—it is a little tricky. 
The Minions and Demon are normally woken separately to 
allow for characters such as the Lunatic, Mole, and Magician 
to function, and to ensure that the Minions do not see the 
Demon’s character bluffs. If the character sheet does not 
include these characters, you can experiment with which 
method works best for you. 
Your role is to create a fun and engaging game. Just 
because you can do something doesn’t mean you should. 
Are you messing with the players in the service of fun, or 
indulging yourself at their expense? Just because you can 
make the Recluse register as the Demon when the Imp kills 
themself during the night, that doesn’t mean it will be fun or 
balanced. Just because you can wake the drunk Snake 
Charmer and tell them they are now the Demon, that 
doesn’t mean the player will have a good time. Maybe they 
will? Maybe they won’t. You can give completely useless 
information to the Savant, but interesting and unique 
information is better. 
Each game, as the Storyteller, you will have a lot of 
interesting decisions to make. Each decision should be made 
for the good of the game and for the fun of the group. This 
will usually mean that you are creating as much confusion as 
possible and leading the good team astray, because that 
makes a fun game for all. But please keep the fairness of the 
game as a whole in mind—you are there for the players’ 
enjoyment. 

Once you are familiar with the characters from the three 
editions in the core set, you may want to create your own 
unique character lists. These are called “scripts”. 
Do you have favorite characters that you like to put in nearly 
every game? Have you thought of character combinations 
that would make interesting and challenging situations for 
your players to deal with? 
Do you want to make a game with a Pit-Hag, a Saint, an Evil 
Twin, and an Innkeeper? Maybe you want to combine the 
Klutz and the Spy? If you have internet access, you can do 
so! 
At BloodOnTheClocktower.com/script, you can create a 
script from any combination of characters you own. This tool 
will also generate a night sheet for a game with your custom 
character list, making it easy to run. 
Adding Travelers to one of your custom games is easy. Just 
do so normally. Some Travelers may not be appropriate to 
mix with the characters in play, some will be. You can decide 
on five Travelers that merge well with your script before the 
game begins, or make a decision in the moment. 
Comparing scripts is a fun and challenging way to improve 
your designs. It is often a good idea to start with just a few 
core characters that you want to include, and build from 
there. Online at BloodOnTheClocktower.com, or on your 
local Facebook or Meetup group, there should be a 
community active in comparing their creations. You are 
welcome to join. 
Some Fabled characters are designed to help you create 
unique and interesting games. Creating your own script is an 
art, and it may take a few tries to find something you are 
happy with. Luckily, you already have some Fabled 
characters to help you make your game run smoothly. 
Maybe you have an overabundance of evil in the game? Or 
only a dozen characters? 
Fabled characters can also make sure your game has an 
unknown number of Outsiders, or add extra misinformation 
when needed, or resolve situations where character abilities 
clash. 
See the Travelers & Fabled Almanac for more information on 
using Fabled characters to make your game more balanced, 
and more fun for all players. 
Handling strange character interactions is more art than 
science. When you create your own scripts, you'll end up 
with some odd situations indeed. Maybe you'll have an evil 
Saint? Or end up with two Philosophers wanting to turn into 
the same character at the same time? With over two 
hundred characters in the works, some weird situations will 
arise. While the Clocktower rules are written with this is 
mind, there may be times where you are uncertain about 
how to two characters combine. Use your best guess. As the 
Storyteller, your decision is final—but make sure you tell the 
players that you’re making a ruling. It might not be the best 
call, but at least it will be a clear one. 
Teensyville lies just a few days’ walk from Ravenswood 
Bluff. You can use the Script Tool to build Teensyville games, 
which include only a few characters on the character sheet. 
Because of this, players will have an easier time knowing 
which characters are in play, letting them strategize more. 
Teensyville games are perfect for 5 or 6 players and can 
include characters from any editions. 
The more, the merrier. The larger your Clocktower group, 
the more fun everyone will have, and the more varied 
opponents and allies that everyone will get to play with. This 
section gives some ways to grow your group. 
Join the Facebook group if you need more players for your 
games or want to participate in games that others run. Each 
city should have a Clocktower Facebook group with your city 
in the title, such as "Blood on the Clocktower—Los Angeles." 
These meeting places are a great way to get to know more 
players in your area. If your city doesn't yet have a Facebook 
group, feel free to start one! If Facebook is the devil, then 
perhaps Meetup.com, or some other similar online tool may 
prove to be a useful way to connect with players. 
Encourage your players to Storytell. Once you have 
mastered the basics of the Storyteller role, it's time to get 
into the game and dominate with your superior knowledge! 
If you encourage players to take on the Storyteller role, they 
too can see how rewarding it is, and will want to invite their 
friends too. Players are usually pretty keen to get online and 
start designing scripts, so they’ll need the basic skills to run 
the games they design. They can learn by reading this 
rulebook or by watching and helping you Storytell for a 
game or two, then having you watch and help them Storytell 
for a game or two. 
Be a leader. The Storyteller role usually has an element of 
authority. It is also usually the Storyteller that organizes 
game times and locations. Generally speaking, the players 

will look to you for times and dates and a little social 
leadership. Treat them well. Listen to what they want. Tailor 
games to their interest and play style. Above all, be 
welcoming and helpful to the new players in your group. 
Taking care of just the veterans means that your group will 
not grow. If you take care of the new players—explain the 
rules to them, help them out when they have questions, and 
keep a friendly and positive vibe—then new players will 
bring new players, and your group will continue to grow. 
Encourage veterans to be good to the new players. Many 
enthusiastic veteran players tend to overload new players 
with information. Too many unimportant game rules, too 
many character exceptions, and too many pieces of strategy 
advice all tends to confuse, not enlighten. Everything a new 
player needs to know to start playing is explained on the 
rules sheet. They can pick the rest up as they go. 
If your veterans keep things simple and help out the new 
players, the new players will stay. This benefits the veterans 
too, as they may make helpful in-game allies to secure a 
victory. Many a game has been won or lost by a helpful 
veteran talking to the new players and getting them 
involved, for good or evil. 
For new players, keep it simple. Do not overload them with 
information. Instead, give them just enough to get involved 
and have a good time. Encourage your veterans to do the 
same. Whilst most players will pick up the basics sometime 
during their first game, it is usually counterproductive to tell 
a new player all the rules and major strategies at once. This 
can totally overwhelm them. 
The rules sheet is designed to get new players into playing 
the game with a minimum of fuss. All the extra rules—
drunkenness, madness, strange character interactions—they 
can learn as they play. Your veterans will probably be more 
than happy to explain how these characters work on your 
behalf. Veterans can be great for helping new players get 
into the game, but only if they take things at the right pace. 
Encourage them to engage the new players, particularly if 
they are dead. After all…they are probably on the same 
Some new players will drastically underestimate or 
misunderstand how a character works, and ask you for 
strategy advice. Sometimes, you’ll notice that a new player 
looks completely confused but isn’t asking for help. Feel free 
to have a private chat with them and give them a helping 
hand. It is never a good idea to give them one single piece of 
strategy advice, as this implies that this is the only way to 
play a particular character – you don’t want a player to ever 
feel that they “should” act a certain way or employ a 
particular strategy. Either give them a few pieces of strategy 
advice, from which they can choose, or let them figure out 
their own strategy in their own way, even though they may 
need a nudge in the right direction. 
For example, the Ravenkeeper and the Virgin are two 
characters that most beginner players think are weak. The 
Ravenkeeper gets the best information of any character in 
Trouble Brewing, but has to trick the Demon into attacking 
them first. The Virgin, when nominated by a Townsfolk, 
confirms that 2 players are good… which is fantastic 
information, albeit at the price of a death. Instead of saying 
to a Ravenkeeper or a Virgin player “you should do X” or 
“you should say Y,” let them know exactly why and how 
their character is powerful, and they will often figure out 
their own strategy from that point onwards. 
Give strategy advice to new players only if they really need 
it. New players have to quickly learn a lot of information—
how to win, how executions work, how their character 
works, what other characters are in the game. What they do 
not need is someone telling them (even if they ask for it!) 
that they "should do this” or "should not do that.” If players 
feel that they "should" do or not do something, then they 
are not making an independent choice about how to play 
the game. Clocktower has many interesting strategies that 
will emerge through play, and new players will figure out 
what to do as they become familiar with the basic rules. If 
you absolutely must give advice to a new player about what 
to do, keep it simple, such as telling good players to "reveal 
their character, either to the group, or to someone that they 
trust, and listen to what others are saying,” and stick to 
telling evil players to "pick a good character to pretend to 
be,” and to make sure they know how that character works, 
in case people ask them questions. 
Helping a new player find their own strategies, or giving 
them a few options for what they can do or say, is much 
more helpful than a hard "you should do this." They may 
also need a helping hand to understand how their character 
works or what their character's strengths and weaknesses 
are. 
To grow, what most new players really need isn't great 
strategy advice. They need to know that it is okay if they die. 
They need to know that they are free to say whatever they 
want to whoever they want, in public or in private. They 
need to feel like they are a valuable part of the team. If 
these bases are covered, they will enjoy your game and 
come back for more. 
Use Travelers. Whenever possible, encourage late players to 
join the game as Travelers. Many players will simply want to 
watch a game in progress, feeling that joining the game late 
is a bit of a faux pas. Nothing could be further from the 
truth! Travelers are some of the most powerful, flexible, and 
downright fun characters in the game, and their arrival 

balances out a game in progress. Most players will want 
Travelers to join their game, as most Travelers are good! 
Keeping this "join at any time" vibe happening will make 
your games more accessible to everyone. 
Use the Fabled. These characters are designed so you can 
include all types of players and encourage their 
participation. The Angel helps new players enjoy their first 
game without fear of death. The Revolutionary helps players 
join in when they would otherwise be incapable. The 
Buddhist gets your veterans to be silent while the new 
players contribute. If you know your Fabled, your game will 
get a reputation as being super inclusive, and that's a good 
thing. 
Check out the Strategy Guide online. For in-depth strategy 
on each character, go to the wiki. If your group comes up 
with an original or crazy way to play a particular character, 
edit the online guide and have your advice heard. Find all 
this on BloodOnTheClocktower.com/wiki 
Your Blood on the Clocktower box set comes with three 
editions for you to try: Trouble Brewing, Bad Moon Rising, 
and Sects & Violets. We highly recommend that you get 
familiar with Storytelling Trouble Brewing before moving on 
to these more complex editions. The character almanac for 
Trouble Brewing offers many helpful reminders of game 
concepts that make it a useful reference as you play, while 
the more complicated editions only give reminders for newly 
introduced concepts and particularly intricate interactions. 
More editions will be available soon. Each edition has 25 
new and unique characters tailored to create a unique 
gaming experience, and the strategies needed for victory 
vary drastically with each. Some editions encourage 
whispers and secrets, others open sharing. Some encourage 
pure logic, others wild and crazy bluffing. If you would like to 
take your Clocktower games to the next level, visit our site 
for more information: BloodOnTheClocktower.com 
All characters included in these editions are also listed in the 
Script Tool, so you can mix and match them with other 
characters you own, so you can create your own games! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beginner. Recommended for players and Storytellers new to 
Blood on the Clocktower or to social deception games. 
Trouble Brewing has a little bit of everything. Some 
characters passively receive information, some need to take 
action to learn who is who, while some simply want to bait 
the Demon into attacking them. Both good and evil can gain 
the upper hand by making well-timed sacrifices. Trouble 
Brewing is a relatively straightforward Demon-hunt, but evil 
has a number of dastardly misinformation tricks up their 
sleeves, so the good players best question what they think 
they know if they hope to survive. 
 
 
 
Intermediate. Recommended for players who are proactive, 
dedicated to working as a team, and don’t fear dying. 
Bad Moon Rising is a death extravaganza. Demons kill 
multiple times per night, and Minions get in on the action 
too. Good players can take great risks to gain reliable 
information, but may accidentally kill their friends in the 
process. Luckily, there are many options to keep players 
alive long past their use-by date. If the good team cannot 
determine which specific Minions and Demons are in play, 
however, their doom is all but certain. 
 
 
 
Intermediate. Recommended for players who want to do 
wild and unexpected things, pushing the limits of what can 
be achieved in a bluffing game. 
Sects & Violets is the craziest of the three editions included 
in the base set. Good characters get amazing information 
each and every night. However, the evil team is extremely 
varied and threatening and can throw massive confusion 
into the mix. Characters change alignment. Players change 
characters. Even the evil team can lose track of who is who. 
This is also the first appearance of madness, which throws 
all manner of spanners into the works. 
 

 
 
 
Intermediate. Recommended for cool heads, puzzle solvers, 
and Storytellers that like to get creative. 
Garden of Sin is a catastrophe of pure logic. Every single 
good character gains some information, even the Outsiders. 
The Demons do not attack during the night, but win 
automatically after a set number of days. The leisurely pace 
gives plenty of time to put all the pieces of the puzzle 
together, but strange logical conditions and counterintuitive 
information reversals mean that the good team will have to 
use their combined brain power—or perish. 
 
 
 
 
Intermediate. Recommended for bullies, ne'er-do-wells, and 
anyone who lusts for all the power and none of the 
responsibility. 
The Tomb is raw power. The Townsfolk here are some of the 
most powerful in existence…but they must use their abilities 
wisely, as information is sparse. Sacrifices of the good are 
necessary to determine who is who. 
 
 
 
 
Expert. Recommended for those comfortable with risk, 
challenge, and extremely ambitious bluffing. 
Midnight in the House of the Damned is not for the faint of 
heart. Many characters flat-out break major rules or even 
make their own. Many booby traps await the careless 
Townsfolk or the ambitious Minion. Many characters can 
win or lose the game singlehandedly, so crafty and 
adventurous bluffs can yield massive rewards. However, just 
figuring out who exactly is on your team can be a challenge 
in itself. All hope abandon, ye who enter here. 
 
 
 
 
 
Beginner through Expert. Recommended for players who 
want some extra spice, or Storytellers who want to create 
some extremely bizarre and uniquely challenging situations 
for their players. 
The Greatest Show on Earth is a collection of fifty-ish extra 
characters for you to add to any Blood on the Clocktower 
games that you design yourself, using the Script Tool. Unlike 
the other editions, this one doesn’t include a suggested 
character list. Many characters too wild and unusual to be 
included in the other editions have found their way to this 
collection. 

 
Ability: The special power or penalty of a character, printed 
on its character token, the character sheet for the chosen 
edition, and the character almanac for the chosen edition. 
The definitive text of the ability is printed in the “How to 
Run” section of the character almanac. Characters have no 
ability when dead, drunk, or poisoned. 
About to die: The player who has enough votes to be 
executed and more votes than any other player today. 
Alignment: The team that a player is currently on. Alignment 
is either good or evil. If a player changes alignment, their 
character stays the same. If a player changes character, their 
alignment stays the same. Players know their own 
alignment. 
Alive: A player that has not died. Alive players have their 
ability, may vote as many times as they wish, and may 
nominate players. As long as 3 or more players are alive, the 
game continues. 
Alive neighbors: The two alive players that are sitting 
closest—one clockwise, one counterclockwise—to the 
player in question, not including any dead players sitting 
between them. 
Ally: A player of the same alignment. 
Character: The role that a player plays, such as the Butler, as 
listed on the character sheet and character almanac for the 
chosen edition. Characters may be in play or not in play. 
Character sheet: The cardboard sheets that list all of the 
possible characters and their abilities for the chosen edition. 
Character token: The large round token that each player 
gets at the start of the game that indicates their character. 
Players cannot look at each other's character tokens. 
Choose: This word in a character’s ability indicates that their 
player decides something. If this word is absent, the 
Storyteller decides instead. 
Clocktower: Blood on the Clocktower, the world’s greatest 
bluffing game! 
Day: The game phase in which players have their eyes open, 
talk with each other, and vote for an execution. Each day is 
followed by a night. Each night is followed by a day. 
Dawn: The end of a night, just before the next day begins. 
Characters that act “at dawn” act after almost all other 
characters. 
Dead: A player that is not alive. Dead players may only vote 
once more during the game. When a player dies, their life 
token flips over and they gain a vote token, they gain a 
shroud in the Grimoire, they immediately lose their ability, 
and any persistent effects of their ability immediately end. 
Declare: State to the group so that everyone can hear you. 
Demon: A type of character that begins evil. If the Demon 
dies, the good team wins. Demons usually kill players at 
night and have some other ability that harms the good 
Demon info: Shorthand on the night sheet, representing the 
information that the Demon receives on the first night if 
there are 7 or more players. The Demon learns which 
players are the Minions, and learns 3 good characters that 
are not in play to help them bluff. 
Demon, The: The player that has the Demon character. In a 
game with multiple Demons, each alive Demon player 
counts as “The Demon”. 
Drunk: A drunk player has no ability but thinks they do, and 
the Storyteller acts like they do. If their ability would give 
them information, the Storyteller may give them false 
information. Drunk players do not know they are drunk. 
Dusk: The start of a night, just after the players close their 
eyes. Characters that act “at dusk” act before almost all 
other characters. Abilities that last “until dusk” end as soon 
as the players go to sleep. 
Each night: Every night phase. 
Each night*: Shorthand on character sheets and tokens, 
meaning “Every night phase except for the first night 
phase.” 
Edition: A scenario of Clocktower that contains a set of 
tokens, character sheets, and a character almanac. For 
example, Trouble Brewing. Each edition has a unifying 
theme, strategy, and tone. 
Evil: The evil alignment. Minions and Demons (red 
characters) start as evil. Evil wins when just 2 players are 
alive, not including Travelers. 
Evil character: Minions and Demons. 
Execution: The group decision to kill a player other than a 
Traveler during the day. There is a maximum of one 
execution per day, but there may be none. A nominated 
player is executed if they got votes equal to at least half the 
number of alive players, and more votes than any other 
nominated player. 
Exile: The group decision to kill a Traveler during the day. 
There may be any number of exiles per day, including none. 
Any players may support an exile, even dead players without 
a vote token. Abilities cannot affect an exile decision in any 
way. Though an exile is similar to a vote for execution, the 
process is not a vote, and an exile is not an execution. See 
Vote and Execution. 
Fabled: A type of character for the Storyteller. Fabled 
characters are neutral, chosen by the Storyteller publicly, 
and usually make the game fairer in strange situations. 
False info: False information, such as a false statement, 
gesture, or character token. The Storyteller may give false 
information when an ability malfunctions, such as when the 
player is drunk or poisoned. See True info. 

First night: The night phase that begins the game. Some 
characters act only during the first night. Some characters 
act during each night except the first. Players may talk about 
their characters only after the first night. 
Good: The good alignment. Townsfolk and Outsiders (blue 
characters) start as good. Good wins if the Demon dies. 
Good character: Townsfolk and Outsiders. 
Grimoire: The box that stores the Clocktower pieces, held 
and updated by the Storyteller. Players cannot look in the 
Grimoire. The Grimoire shows the actual states of all the 
characters, such as who is alive or dead, who is poisoned, 
who is acting at night, etc. 
Healthy: Not poisoned. 
Info: Information. 
Info token: Rectangular tokens that give information and 
are sometimes shown to players at night. For example, the 
“This is the Demon” info token. 
In play: A character that exists in the current game, either 
alive or dead. 
Leaf: The small green and orange symbols on many 
character tokens that help the Storyteller run the game. 
Green leaves on the top show the number of reminder 
tokens to add to the Grimoire. A green leaf on the left shows 
that the character needs a night token on the first night. A 
green leaf on the right shows that the character needs a 
night token on each night except the first. An orange leaf 
means that the character setup is different than normal for 
this game. 
Life token: These tokens are placed on the Town Square, 
corresponding to the players’ seating positions, and show 
which players are alive or dead. The parchment side shows 
that the player is alive, and the black side shows that the 
player is dead. 
Lose: At the end of the game, one team will lose. Dead and 
alive players lose as a team. Evil loses when the Demon dies. 
Good loses when there are only two alive players, not 
including Travelers. 
Mad: A player who is “mad” about something is trying to 
convince the group that something is true. Some players are 
instructed to be mad about something - if the Storyteller 
thinks that a player has not put effort to convince the group 
of the thing they are mad about, then a penalty may apply. 
Some players are instructed to not be mad about something 
- if the Storyteller thinks that a player has tried to convince 
the group of that thing, then a penalty may apply. 
Might: Shorthand on character sheets and tokens. 
Something that “might” happen means the Storyteller 
chooses whether it happens or not. 
Minion: A type of character that begins evil. Minions have 
abilities that help the evil team. There are usually 1 to 3 
Minions per game. The Traveler sheet lists the number of 
Minions in the current game. 
Minion info: Shorthand on the night sheet, representing the 
information that the Minions receive on the first night if 
there are 7 or more players. The Minions learn which other 
players are Minions, and which player the Demon is. 
Neighbors: The two players, whether dead or alive, sitting 
one seat clockwise and counterclockwise from the player in 
question. 
Night: The game phase in which players close their eyes, and 
certain characters wake to act or receive information. The 
game begins with the night phase. Each day is followed by a 
night. Each night is followed by a day. 
Night sheet: The sheet the Storyteller uses to know which 
characters act in which order at night. The night sheet has 
one side to use on the first night and one side to use on all 
other nights. 
Night token: The tokens that the Storyteller puts next to the 
night sheet to indicate which characters may need to act 
tonight. Which night tokens are needed is indicated by the 
leaves on the left and right of each character token. 
Nomination: The act of declaring a group vote to execute a 
player, which is echoed by the Storyteller. Players may 
nominate once per day, and can be nominated once per day. 
Only alive players may nominate. 
Not in play: A character that does not exist in the current 
game, but is on the character sheet. 
Once per game: An ability that can be used only once. If a 
player uses their ability, even while drunk or poisoned, they 
cannot use their ability again. If a player dies without using 
their once per game ability, they lose it. 
Outsider: A type of character that begins good. Outsiders 
have abilities that are unhelpful to the good team. The 
Traveler sheet lists how many Outsiders are in the current 
game. 
Player: Any person who has an in-play character, not 
including the Storyteller. 
Poisoned: A poisoned player has no ability but thinks they 
do, and the Storyteller acts like they do. If their ability would 
give them information, the Storyteller may give them false 
information. Poisoned players do not know they are 
poisoned. See Drunk. 
Private: Anything whispered between two players, or 
between a player and the Storyteller, so that the other 
players do not hear it. 
Public: Anything said or done in such a way that most 
players, including the Storyteller, are aware that it 
happened. 
Register: A player that “registers as” a specific character or 
alignment counts as that character or alignment for game 
rule purposes, and for other player’s abilities. For example, if 
a good player “registers as evil,” they are still good (and win 
when good wins), but they count as evil to characters that 

detect evil. Registering as a character does not impart that 
character’s ability. 
Reminder token: The small tokens that help the Storyteller 
remember all sorts of things. Reminder tokens are specific 
to a certain character. 
Rules sheet: The sheet that is read out at the beginning of a 
game so that new players can learn the important rules. 
New players may instead read the sheet privately if they 
wish. 
Script Tool: The online character list generator, which allows 
you to design scripts from any combination of character 
tokens 
you 
own. 
Use 
the 
Script 
Tool 
at 
BloodOnTheClocktower.com/script. 
Script: A collection of characters, created via the Script Tool, 
that can be printed to make character sheets. 
Setup sheet: The sheet that details what the Storyteller 
needs to do before beginning a game. 
Shroud: The black and grey banner-shaped token used in 
the Grimoire to indicate that a player is dead. 
Sober: Not drunk. 
Starts knowing: Shorthand on character sheets and tokens. 
A character that “starts knowing” gains knowledge on the 
first night or, if such a character is created mid-game, at that 
point instead. 
State: A current property of a player. A player is always 
either drunk or sober, either poisoned or healthy, either 
alive or dead, and either mad or sane. 
Storyteller: The person who runs the game. The Storyteller 
keeps the Grimoire, follows the rules of the game, and 
makes the final decision on what happens when a situation 
needs adjudication. 
Team: All players sharing an alignment. “Your team” means 
“You and all other players that have the same alignment as 
you.” 
Think: A player who “thinks” they are a different character 
receives a character token that does not match their true 
character in the Grimoire. The Storyteller pretends to this 
player that they are this false character. 
Tomorrow: The day phase and the night phase following the 
current night phase. 
Townsfolk: A type of good character. Townsfolk have 
abilities that help the good team. Usually, most in-play 
characters are Townsfolk. The Traveler sheet lists the 
number of Townsfolk in the current game. 
Town Square: The grey cardboard sheet in the center of the 
seats. The Town Square has the player's life tokens and vote 
tokens on it, and the Traveler sheet under it. 
Traveler: A type of character for players who are late to join 
or who expect to leave early. The player chooses their 
character, and the Storyteller chooses their alignment. 
Travelers have great power, but may be exiled by the group. 
Traveler Sheet: The sheet placed under the Town Square. It 
lists how many Outsiders and Minions are in the current 
game and what the Travelers’ abilities are. 
True info: True information, such as a true statement, 
gesture, or character token. The Storyteller must always give 
true information about the rules. See False info. 
Type: A class of character—Townsfolk, Outsider, Minion, 
Demon, Traveler, or Fabled. 
Vote: Raising a hand when the Storyteller is counting the 
number of players in favor of an execution. Players may vote 
per day. A dead player may only vote once for the rest of the 
game. The votes are tallied clockwise, ending with the 
nominated player. The exile process, though similar, is not a 
vote. See Exile. 
Vote token: The round white circular token that is put on a 
player’s life token when they die. When this dead player 
votes, they remove their vote token and cannot vote for the 
rest of the game. 
Wake: A player opening their eyes at night. The Storyteller 
wakes a player by tapping twice on the knee or shoulder, 
and wakes all players by saying “eyes open, everybody” at 
dawn. 
Win: At the end of the game, one team will win. Alive and 
dead players lose as a team. Good wins when the Demon 
dies. Evil wins when there are only two alive players, not 
including Travelers.