Rules of Play

Overview
In Blood Bowl: Team Manager – The Card Game, managers lead their team 
of misfits and miscreants over the course of a Blood Bowl league season. 
During the season, managers have the opportunity to improve their teams by 
investing in Star Players, hiring staff, and expanding their businesses.
Managers use their players to compete against other teams in matchups, 
which represent the highlights of that week’s games – the pivotal, action-
packed moments that the fans live for! Performing well in a matchup gains 
more fans for your team, which is the goal of every team manager. 
Object of the Game
At the end of the season, the manager whose team has accumulated the 
most fans is awarded Spike! Magazine’s “Manager of the Year” award. The 
recipient of this prestigious award wins the game.
Welcome, sports fans, and all our loyal viewers on Cabalvision! 
This is Blood Bowl! The most popular sport 
in the Old World, isn’t that right, Bob?
It sure is, Jim, and for one simple reason: it’s the most violent! 
Where else can you see a minotaur drop-kick a goblin? Where 
else can you watch an ogre flatten the entire opposing line? 
Isn’t there a ball in there somewhere, too, Bob? 
Who cares!? 
Well, the Athelorn Avengers might – they lead the league in 
passing yards last season and aim to do it again. 
There are many paths to victory in Blood Bowl. 
There sure are, Jim, and they’re all the easier to walk when the way 
is paved with the bones of the opposing team. Now for our viewers 
who might be new to the game, and don’t know the difference 
between the ball and a snotling, here’s how the game is played…
Welcome to the Big Leagues!
Important Note!
Throughout this rulebook and on the cards used in Blood 
Bowl: Team Manager – The Card Game, the terms player 
and manager are used frequently. To avoid confusion, it 
is important to note that player refers to a card featuring a 
member from one of the Blood Bowl teams, while manager 
refers to one of the real-life people enjoying Blood Bowl: 
Team Manager – The Card Game.

Component List
	 168 Bridge-sized Cards, consisting of:
	 72 Starting Player Cards (12 per team)
	 25 OWA Star Player Cards
	 25 CWC Star Player Cards
	 32 Highlight Cards
	 14 Spike! Magazine Cards
	 58 Small Cards, consisting of:
	 30 Team Upgrade Cards
	 28 Staff Upgrade Cards
	 55 Cardboard Tokens, consisting of:
	 18 Team Tokens (3 per team)
	 30 Cheating Tokens
	 6 Ball Tokens
	 1 Golden Coin Marker
	 4 Scoreboards (each with 1 faceplate, 2 dials, and 2 plastic connectors)
	 2 Six-sided Tackle Dice
	 This Rulebook
Component Overview
This section describes all of the various components in detail.
Player Cards
These players are the basic scrubs who make 
up each manager’s starting team. None too 
bright, these players need direct guidance and 
careful positioning from their manager in order 
to use their limited talents to their fullest.
Star Player Cards
These skilled players really know their way 
around the pitch! These improvements include 
famous Star Players and up-and-coming 
freebooters – aspiring stars who haven’t quite 
made it yet.
Highlight Cards
These cards make up the Highlight deck, which 
showcases the most spectacular moments of each 
game during the week. From teeth-shattering blocks to 
diving one-handed catches, these are the moments of 
exceptional finesse and brutal violence that fans of all 
ages adore.
Spike! Magazine Cards
These cards show the week’s scheduled events in the 
TMU’s press release, published in Spike! Magazine. 
Spike! Magazine cards are either headlines (weather 
forecasts, scandals, etc.) or tournaments, in which 
managers compete for glittering prizes.
Team Upgrade Cards
These cards represent facility or equipment improvements 
that a team can make throughout the season. These 
improvements are unique to each team, and they help 
managers define how to best develop their team over the 
course of the season.
Staff Upgrade Cards
These cards represent staff members whom managers can 
hire throughout the season. These improvements include 
wizards, apothecaries, and position coaches who can give a 
team the edge it needs to rise to the next level.
The Team Managers’ Union
In Blood Bowl: Team Manager – The Card Game, all team 
managers are required to belong to the Team Managers’ 
Union (TMU). Within the TMU, there are two subdivisions: 
the Old World Association (OWA) and the Chaos Wastes 
Confederation (CWC). When a manager drafts Star Players, 
union rules state that he must draw from the deck that 
corresponds to his manager’s subdivision.

Setup
Before playing, set up the game as follows:
Prepare the Highlight Deck: Shuffle all Highlight cards and place 
the deck facedown at one end of the common play area. 
Choose Teams: One manager gathers one team token from each 
team and holds them in his cupped hand. Without looking, each 
manager draws one team token to determine which team he 
manages this season. Alternatively, managers may agree to simply 
choose the teams they want to manage. 
Each manager receives one scoreboard (set to “00”), the 12 
Starting Player cards for his team, the five Team Upgrade cards for 
his team, and the three team tokens for his team. Return all Starting 
Player cards, Team Upgrade cards, and team tokens belonging to 
unmanaged teams to the game box.
Shuffle Team Decks and Team Upgrade Decks: Each manager 
shuffles his Starting Player cards (the 12 players of his team, not 
including Star Players) and places them facedown in his play area. 
Leave room beside this deck for a discard pile. Each manager also 
shuffles his Team Upgrade cards and places them facedown in his 
play area.
Prepare the Star Player Decks: Take all Star Player cards 
(identified by the ✪ symbol on both sides of the player’s name), 
and separate them into two decks, based on their card back – OWA 
and CWC. Shuffle each deck separately and place them facedown 
near the Highlight deck.
Team Tokens
These tokens identify Star Players who belong to a 
team not of their race. This helps avoid confusion 
during the game.
Cheating Tokens
These tokens determine how cheating players are rewarded 
or punished for their shenanigans. Sometimes cheating can 
increase a player’s Star Power or even gain fans for the team. 
But if the ref catches a player cheating, he is likely to eject 
that player from the match!
Ball Tokens
These tokens represent which team has possession of the ball. 
Turnovers occur frequently, and the team who controls the ball at 
the end of a highlight is more likely to win a nail-biter.
Golden Coin Marker
This golden coin was often used during matches by Roze-El, 
the legendary founder of Blood Bowl. The coin indicates which 
manager plays first in any given round.
Scoreboards
The scoreboards track how many fans each manager 
has gained for his team over the course of the season.
Tackle Dice
These custom six-sided dice resolve tackle attempts and other 
random game elements.
Scoreboard Assembly
Assemble the scoreboards as shown in the diagram.
B
A

Prepare the Staff Upgrade Deck: Shuffle all Staff Upgrade cards 
and place them facedown near the Highlight deck.
Prepare the Spike! Magazine Deck: Follow these four steps:
a.	 Find “The Blood Bowl” card and set it aside.
b.	 Shuffle the three remaining Tournament cards, randomly draw 
two of them, and return the remaining card to the box without 
looking at it.
c.	 Shuffle all Headline cards, randomly draw two of them, and 
return the remaining cards to the box without looking at them.
d.	 Shuffle the four drawn cards together into one deck. Place 
“The Blood Bowl” card facedown at the bottom of this deck 
and place the deck at the opposite end of the play area from the 
Highlight deck.
7.	
Prepare Tokens and Dice: Place all cheating tokens facedown 
(skull-side up) on one side of the play area and mix them together 
to form the cheating token pool. Place the ball tokens and 
tackle dice where all managers can easily reach them.
8.	
Assign First Manager: The youngest manager takes the golden 
coin. He is the first manager during the first round of the game.
Athelorn Avengers’ Play Area
Chaos All-Stars’ Play Area
Highlight 
Tokens
Discard Pile
Upgrade 
OWA Star 
Player Deck
Staff Upgrade 
CWC Star 
Player Deck
Reikland Reavers’ Play Area
Gouged Eye’s Play Area
Cheating Token Pool
Tackle Dice
Spike! Magazine 
Revealed Spike! 
Magazine Card
The Highlight Reel
Setup Diagram (4-manager game)

Card Anatomy
1. Standing Star Power
2. Card Title
3. Skill Icons
4. Text Box
5. Downed Star Power
6. Team Logo
7. Announcer Commentary
8. Team Zone Payouts
9. Central Payout
10. Winner Payout
11. Runner-up Payout
12. Loser Payout
13. Flavor Text (italicized; no game effect)
Starting Player Card
Star Player Card
Neutral Star Player Card
Staff Upgrade Card
Highlight Card
Headline Card 
(Spike! Magazine Card)
Tournament Card 
(Spike! Magazine Card)
Team Upgrade Card

Team Management 101
Managers can develop their teams in a variety of different ways. Each time 
a team competes in one of the weekly matchups, the team manager collects 
payouts in the form of new fans, Star Players, team upgrades, and staff 
upgrades. Some matchups are more lucrative than others, and of course 
the winner of a matchup collects a bigger payout than the loser. As teams 
develop, they gain more highly skilled players and special abilities that will 
aid them in matchups and maybe even help them to win one of the coveted 
tournament trophies. But don’t forget, in the end, it all comes down to who 
has the most fans (see “Winning the Game” on page 9).
The Teams
Reikland Reavers: Human players are well rounded 
and suited to play virtually any position on the pitch. 
They can pass and run fairly well, as well as smash 
the opposition when called for. Because of their 
versatility, the Reikland Reavers can thwart their 
opponent’s game plan.
Grudgebearers: Dwarfs seem to be ideal Blood 
Bowl players – short, tough, and well-armoured! 
The Grudgebearers are no exception, and they 
maintain the philosophy that if they can wear down 
the opposing team, then there won’t be anyone left 
to stop them from scoring the winning touchdown.
Athelorn Avengers: For Wood Elves, the long pass 
is everything. Virtually all of their effort goes into 
their offensive game plan. The Athelorn Avengers 
rely on their natural athletic ability to keep them out 
of trouble, which is normally enough – it takes a very 
agile or lucky opponent to lay a hand on a Wood Elf!
Skavenblight Scramblers: They may not be all that 
strong or tough, but boy oh boy are Skaven fast! Many 
an opponent has been left dumbfounded as a Skaven 
runner finds a gap in the line and scampers for a 
touchdown. The Skavenblight Scramblers are certainly 
not above cheating, so make sure the ref is watching!
Gouged Eye: Orcs have been playing Blood Bowl 
since the game was invented, and Gouged Eye is 
among the best teams in the league. They rely on their 
tough, hard-hitting game plan, which gradually grinds 
down the opposition.
Chaos All-Stars: Chaos teams are not noted for the 
subtlety or originality. A simple drive up the centre of the 
field, maiming and injuring as many opposing players as 
possible, is about the limit of their game plan. They are 
more concerned with cheating – kicking downed players 
and stabbing the ball carrier – than scoring touchdowns.
Star Players
Fans
Team Upgrades
Staff Upgrades
Player Card Identif
 iers
There are areas on the front of a Player card that help managers 
quickly identify some important information about the player.
OWA Player cards are identified by the OWA logo on the card 
back; likewise, CWC Player cards are identified by the CWC 
logo on the card back.
Managers can differentiate Star Players from 
starting players by the winged Star Power icon. 
Also, this star symbol (✪) appears on both sides of 
the player’s name.
Some Star Players are free agents – neutral players 
that do not belong to any team. They have grey card 
templates and this unique team logo.

He flips these cards faceup and places them in the play area one 
after another to form a line between the Highlight deck and the 
Spike! Magazine deck (see “Setup Diagram” on page 5). The cards 
should be placed in a successive line, with the first one closest to 
the Highlight deck and the last one closest to the revealed Spike! 
Magazine card. This line of Highlight cards is known as the 
Highlight Reel.
Prepare for Kickoff: Place one ball token on each Highlight card 
and on the Tournament card (if present). When the ball token is on 
the Highlight or Tournament card, it is considered at midfield.
Matchup Phase
The Matchup phase is the heart of the game experience. During this phase, 
teams compete against other teams in head-to-head matchups. Generally 
speaking, the more matchups a team wins, the more it improves and the 
more fans it accumulates.
Each manager typically has six turns over the course of the Matchup phase, 
unless he passes early. Beginning with the first manager and proceeding 
clockwise, each manager performs the following steps during his turn:
Commit One Player to a Matchup: The manager takes one 
Player card from his hand and places it faceup next to a matchup. 
He then resolves the player’s card as follows:
	
Resolve When Played Abilities: The manager resolves any 
“When Played:” abilities on that Player card.
	
Use Skills: The manager uses the player’s skills in order from 
left-to-right. For more information on skills, see page 10.
Resolve One Matchup Action (optional): The manager may 
exhaust one Staff Upgrade or Team Upgrade card in his play area 
and apply the card’s text.
The Game Round
Blood Bowl: Team Manager – The Card Game is played over five rounds. 
Each round represents one week of the season, which culminates with the 
Blood Bowl tournament. After five rounds, the manager with the most fans 
wins the game.
Each round consists of the following phases:
Maintenance Phase: Managers prepare their team and staff for 
the upcoming week by refreshing cards, drawing players, and 
preparing the week’s highlights.
Matchup Phase: Managers place Player cards at matchups and use 
Team and Staff Upgrade cards.
Scoreboard Phase: The winner of each matchup is determined 
and managers receive payouts (including fans and improvements) 
based on this outcome.
Each of these phases is discussed over the next few pages in greater detail.
Maintenance Phase
During this phase, each manager prepares his team and staff for the 
upcoming week. Perform the following steps in order (all managers may 
perform steps 1–2 simultaneously):
Refresh Cards: Each manager refreshes all exhausted cards in his 
play area by rotating them to their upright position (see “Upgrade 
Card Abilities” on page 16 for information about exhausting cards).
Replenish Hand: Each manager draws cards from his Team 
deck until he has six cards in his hand. (Important: Each time a 
manager’s Team deck becomes depleted, he shuffles his discard 
pile and places it facedown to form a new Team deck, and then 
continues drawing if necessary.)
Restock the Cheating Token Pool: The first manager returns all 
cheating tokens to the cheating token pool. Flip all cheating tokens 
facedown and mix them together to randomize them.
Reveal the Spike! Magazine Card: The first manager draws the 
top card of the Spike! Magazine deck. He places the card faceup 
next to the Spike! Magazine deck, covering up any previous faceup 
Spike! Magazine card. 
If the revealed card is a tournament, managers can compete for a 
glittering prize during this round. If the revealed card is a headline, 
the first manager reads the card’s text aloud to the other managers. 
Some effects occur immediately (such as those that allow managers 
to draw extra cards), while other effects occur throughout the 
Matchup phase (effects labeled with “This Week”).
Roll the Highlights: The first manager “rolls” the highlights by 
drawing a number of cards from the Highlight deck equal to the 
number of managers in the game (i.e., in a four-manager game, 
he draws four Highlight cards).
Types of Matchups
There are two different types of matchups: highlights and 
tournaments. Highlights are represented by Highlight cards 
from the Highlight Reel. Tournaments are represented by 
Tournament cards from the Spike! Magazine deck.
When a card’s text uses the word “matchup,” it applies to 
both highlights and tournaments. When a card’s text uses the 
word “highlight,” it only applies to highlights and cannot be 
used at tournaments.

If a manager does not wish to (or cannot) commit a Player card, he must 
pass. A manager who passes cannot commit any more players or resolve 
matchup actions for the remainder of the Matchup phase. He may also 
discard any Player cards that he does not wish to keep for next round. 
After all managers have passed, the Scoreboard phase begins.
Scoreboard Phase
During this phase, managers determine which team won each matchup by 
comparing each team’s total Star Power. Based on the result, managers 
collect payouts, such as fans, Star Players, staff upgrades, and team upgrades.
Resolve Matchups: Starting with the Highlight card closest to 
the Highlight deck, resolve each matchup by following the steps 
below. Resolve tournaments last. Complete the process for each 
matchup before continuing to the next matchup:
a.	 Reveal Cheating Tokens: Flip all assigned cheating tokens at 
the matchup faceup (see “Reveal Cheating Tokens” on page 13).
b.	 Resolve Scoreboard Phase Abilities: In turn order, resolve 
any “Scoreboard Phase” abilities on players, team upgrades, or 
staff upgrades.
c.	 Determine Winner: Calculate each manager’s total Star Power 
at the matchup, including each player, cheating tokens, the ball 
token, and any player abilities (see page 13).
d.	 Collect Payouts: Each manager collects his zone’s payout and the 
winning manager collects the central payout. Payouts include Star 
Players, team upgrades, staff upgrades and fans (see page 13).
e.	 Clear the Pitch: The players involved in the matchup go to the 
owning manager’s discard pile. Highlight cards are returned to 
the game box.
Reveal Improvement Pile: Each manager reveals the improvements 
he received from this round’s payouts (see page 14).
Pass the Golden Coin: The manager with the golden coin passes it 
to the manager on his left.
After resolving the Scoreboard phase, the week is over and managers 
proceed to the next Maintenance phase. If the Blood Bowl tournament 
was resolved this week, the season ends and a winner is determined (see 
“Winning the Game”).
Winning the Game 
The season culminates in the Blood Bowl tournament and ends at the end of 
the fifth round. The managers gain fans from any “End of Game” abilities 
from team upgrades or staff upgrades. After the final tally, the manager with 
the most fans wins the game and receives the Spike! Magazine’s “Manager 
of the Year” award!
If there is a tie for most fans, the most well-developed team wins the game. 
The tied managers calculate the total number of improvements (Star Players, 
team upgrades, and staff upgrades) gained over the course of the season. The 
tied manager who accumulated the most improvements wins the game.
If there is still a tie, the Team Manager’s Union suspects foul play and 
conducts an investigation. The TMU suspends each suspected (tied) 
manager indefinitely, and they lose all their fans. The TMU presents the 
“Manager of the Year” award to the remaining manager who gained the 
most fans and that manager wins the game instead!
If all managers are still tied (after checking for the most well-developed 
team), then the TMU loses all credibility, the fans revolt, and nobody wins 
the game!
Matchup Phase in 
Detail
This section explains how managers commit players to matchups, use skills, 
and exhaust upgrade cards.
Committing Players to a Matchup
This section describes how to commit players to the two types of matchups: 
highlights and tournaments.
Committing Players to a Highlight
To commit a player to a highlight, the manager takes one Player card from 
his hand and places it perpendicular to the Highlight card in one of that 
highlight’s team zones (see “Committing Players” on page 10). Each 
highlight consists of two team zones: one to the left and one to the right of 
the Highlight card. Each team zone has a corresponding payout (see “Team 
Zone Payouts” on page 13). A manager whose players are in this zone 
automatically receives this payout during the Scoreboard phase.
Managers simply place their players to one side of a Highlight card to 
indicate that they are present at that team zone. In the interest of space, 
a manager may stack his Player cards on top of each other in team zones 
(leaving the star power visible – see “Committing Players” on page 10). 
A manager may only commit players to a team zone that does not already 
contain players from another team, and he may not have his own players in 
more than one team zone at the same matchup. No more than two different 
managers can commit players to a single highlight. While two managers 
have committed at least one player to a highlight, no other manager can 

commit players to that highlight. If for some reason the last player is 
removed from a team zone, leaving it empty, it is possible for a different 
manager to then place a player in that team zone.
When a manager commits a player to a highlight, he is guaranteed to 
collect his team zone’s payout (as long as he has players there during the 
Scoreboard phase; see “Payout Sections” on page 15). The manager also 
has a chance to beat the opposing manager and win the central payout, 
shown between the team zone payouts.
Committing Players to a Tournament
To commit a player to a tournament, the manager takes one player from his 
hand and places him near the Tournament card. Unlike highlights, there is no 
limit to the number of managers who can commit players to a tournament. 
Tournament cards are considered to have enough team zones for all managers 
and the team zones do not contain any payouts. Payouts from a tournament 
depend entirely on the outcome of that tournament (i.e., who the winner is, 
who the runner-up is, etc.).
Note: When a manager commits a Star Player card whose team logo does 
not match his team’s logo, he places one of his team tokens on the card to 
remind managers that the Star Player belongs to him.
“When Played” Abilities
These abilities allow the player to do something unique before using his 
skills. Simply follow the instructions on the Player card.
Skills
Some players have skills that are identified by icons in the centre of the card, 
between the artwork and the text box. Each icon represents one of four skills:
Cheating allows a player to gain extra Star Power or fans through 
underhanded means, but a cheater always risks getting caught by the refs 
and being ejected from the matchup.
Passing allows a player to move the ball around the pitch by throwing, 
catching, or running. A player with passing can rob the opposing team of 
possession or take possession himself.
Sprinting makes a team more flexible by allowing a manager to cycle 
through Player cards in his deck.
Tackling allows a player to down or injure opposing players, but a clumsy 
tackle might send the tackling player himself crashing to the ground.
Managers must completely resolve a skill before using another skill.
Cheating is mandatory; all other skills are optional.
Cheating
Cheating is mandatory. For each cheating icon, assign the player one 
cheating token. To assign a cheating token, draw one random cheating 
token from the pool and place it facedown (skull side up) on the Player 
card without looking at it. Cheating tokens are revealed and resolved 
during the Scoreboard phase (see “Reveal Cheating Tokens” on page 13).
Note: Cheating tokens remain facedown. Managers cannot look at an assigned 
cheating token’s hidden face unless a card ability allows them to do so.
Passing
Passing is optional. If the ball token is at midfield (i.e., on the matchup 
card), give it to the player using the passing skill by placing the ball 
token on his Player card. That player is now the ball carrier.
If an opposing player is the ball carrier, move the ball to midfield.
If another player on the manager’s own team is currently the ball carrier, 
the manager may choose to either leave the ball with the current ball carrier 
or move it to the player using the passing skill. If the committed player is 
already the ball carrier, but still has more pass icons to resolve, ignore them.
Note: The passing skill that a player uses is in no way related to a manager 
passing (not committing any more players during the Matchup phase).
Committing Players
Highlights have two team zones – one to the left of the card, 
and one to the right of the card. 
When a manager commits a player to a highlight, he chooses 
a team zone (either open or containing his players) and places 
the Player card in it. The team zone he chooses is important 
because it defines which payouts he receives – as long as at 
least one of his players is present during the Scoreboard phase. 
Tournaments have one team zone per manager. Managers 
always have the option of committing players to a tournament.
See the example diagram below of a possible in-game 
situation. Notice how the Player cards are perpendicular to 
the Highlight cards. 

Sprinting
Sprinting is optional. For each sprinting icon, the player’s 
manager draws the top card of his Team deck, then chooses one 
card to discard from his hand (he may choose the card just drawn).
Tackling
Tackling is optional. For each tackling icon, the player may 
attempt one tackle against any opposing player at the same 
matchup. A player with multiple tackle icons resolves each tackle 
separately, so he may attempt to tackle the same player multiple 
times or may make tackles against multiple different players.
To attempt a tackle, the tackling player’s manager declares the target player 
and compares his player’s Star Power to the target player’s Star Power:
If the tackling player’s Star Power is greater than the target player’s 
Star Power, the manager rolls two tackle dice and chooses one 
result to apply.
If the tackling player’s Star Power is equal to the target player’s Star 
Power, the manager rolls one tackle dice and applies that result.
If the tackling player’s Star Power is less than the target player’s 
Star Power, the manager rolls two tackle dice and the opposing 
manager chooses one result to apply.
Note: Unless stated in a player’s ability, the ball token does not affect the 
player’s Star Power. 
Based on the results of the tackle dice, one of several outcomes may occur 
after a tackle attempt:
Target Down: The tackle succeeds. If the target player is standing, 
he becomes downed. If the target player is downed, he becomes 
injured (see “Player States” below).
Target Missed: The tackle fails, but there is no other effect.
Tackler Down: The target evades or deflects the tackle, and the 
tackler falls on his face. If the tackling player is standing, he 
becomes downed. In the rare situation that the tackling player is 
downed, he becomes injured.
Note: Some abilities take effect when players are “successfully tackled.” 
If a manager applies the tackler down result, it does not count as a 
successful tackle for the target player.
Player States
A player can be in three possible states: standing, downed, and injured.
Standing: When a manager commits a player to a highlight, he places the 
Player card perpendicular to the Highlight card in an upright position in 
his team zone. This position indicates that he is standing. While a player is 
standing, he uses his standing Star Power, located in the upper-left corner 
of his card.
Downed: When a player becomes downed, immediately rotate his Player 
card clockwise 90°. While he is downed, he uses his downed Star Power. 
Now that the card is rotated sideways, the downed Star Power is in the 
upper-left corner (when the card is in its normal orientation, this number is 
located in the lower-left corner). If the player is the ball carrier, he drops the 
ball. Downed players lose all abilities and remaining skills, but retain any 
assigned cheating tokens already placed on them.
Injured: When a player becomes injured, immediately remove him from 
the matchup and place his Player card in his manager’s discard pile. If the 
player is the ball carrier, he drops the ball. Discard any assigned cheating 
tokens placed on that player’s card. Injured players undergo treatment by the 
team apothecaries and recover the next time the discard pile is shuffled to 
become the new deck.
Note: When a player drops the ball, place the ball token at midfield.
Resolving Matchup actions
After committing a player, the active manager may resolve one matchup 
action. To resolve a matchup action, read the text aloud to all managers and 
follow the instructions. If a card requires the manager to exhaust it, rotate it 
clockwise 90°. A manager who passes cannot resolve matchup actions for 
the remainder of the Matchup phase.

Matchup Phase Example
The Athelorn Avengers manager commits “Wood Elf 
Catcher” to the “Unsportsmanlike Conduct” highlight.
The Catcher uses the passing skill, so he becomes the ball 
carrier; the manager places the ball token on the Catcher’s card.
Then the Catcher uses sprinting, so his manager draws one 
card from his Team deck, then chooses one card in his hand 
to discard.
The Catcher uses sprinting again, so his manager draws 
another card from his Team deck, then chooses one card in 
his hand to discard.
The Gouged Eye manager commits “Orc Blitzer” to the open 
team zone on the “Unsportsmanlike Conduct” highlight.
The Blitzer uses his tackling skill to attempt to tackle the Catcher. 
The Blitzer has a higher Star Power than the Catcher, so the 
Blitzer’s manager rolls two tackle dice.
He obtains a 
 result and a 
 result, and he chooses to apply the 
 result. The Catcher becomes downed and drops the ball.
Then the Blitzer uses the cheating skill, so his manager assigns one 
cheating token to the Blitzer; he draws one random cheating token 
from the pool and places it on the Blitzer’s card.
7.	
The Blitzer’s manager chooses to resolve a matchup action. The 
ball is at midfield, so he exhausts the staff upgrade “Offensive 
Coordinator,” which allows one of his players to become the ball 
carrier if the ball is currently at midfield. The Orc Blitzer becomes the 
ball carrier, so the manager places the ball token on the Blitzer’s card.
>

Scoreboard Phase in 
Detail
This section further explains certain steps of the Scoreboard phase, such as 
revealing cheating tokens, determining the winner, and collecting payouts.
 Reveal Cheating Tokens
At the beginning of each Scoreboard phase, the first manager flips all 
assigned cheating tokens at the matchup faceup. Apply revealed cheating 
tokens in this order:
Ejection: The refs not only catch the player cheating, but 
they decide to actually do something about it! If there are 
any revealed cheating tokens with a whistle, that player is 
ejected from the matchup.
Immediately remove the ejected player from the matchup and 
place him in his manager’s discard pile. Discard any other assigned 
cheating tokens on that player without resolving them. If the ball 
carrier is ejected, he drops the ball.
Fan Frenzy: Somehow the refs didn’t see it, and the 
fans erupt into a chaotic frenzy! For each flag icon on a 
cheating token, the manager immediately gains one fan.
Star Power: The refs and the fans don’t notice, but the 
player did something to give himself an edge. Star Power 
cheating tokens are cumulative and take effect during the 
“Determine Winner” step (see below).
Determine Winner
To determine the winner of a matchup during the Scoreboard phase, 
calculate the total Star Power for each team at the matchup as follows:
Standing players contribute their standing Star Power.
Downed players contribute their downed Star Power.
Cheating tokens contribute their Star Power.
The ball contributes two Star Power to the team with the ball carrier.
The manager whose team has the highest Star Power is the winner. In case 
of a tie, the team with the ball carrier is the winner.
In case of a tie at a highlight when the ball is at midfield, the highlight ends 
in a draw and neither team is considered the winner or the loser. Neither 
team receives the central payout.
In case of a tie at a tournament when the ball is at midfield, the first 
manager decides which tied team has higher Star Power.
Collect Payouts
There are two different ways to collect payouts, depending on whether the 
matchup is a highlight or a tournament.
Highlight Payouts
Each manager collects the payout for his team zone. The winner also 
collects the central payout. Managers gain fans immediately. Cards collected 
from the payouts are placed facedown in the manager’s improvement pile.
Tournament Payouts
The winner of the tournament collects the payout next to the trophy. The 
manager with the second-highest Star Power is the runner-up, who collects 
the payout next to the ribbon. All other managers who have at least one 
player at the tournament collect the “LOSE!” payout.
Managers gain fans immediately. Cards collected from the payouts are 
placed facedown in the manager’s improvement pile.
Note: When only one team has players at a matchup, that team’s manager 
collects all payouts shown on the card instead of only collecting the payout 
for his team zone.
Team Zone Payouts
A manager collects team zone payouts based on the icons 
shown on the Highlight card. He must have at least one player 
still in the team zone during the Collect Payouts step of the 
Scoreboard phase in order to collect a team zone payout.
In the “Matchup Phase Example” diagram, the Athelorn 
Avengers and Gouged Eye are competing at the 
“Unsportsmanlike Conduct” highlight. During the Collect 
Payouts step, the Atheolorn Avengers’ manager will collect 
one team upgrade from his team zone payout. The Gouged 
Eye manager will collect two Star Players and draft one of 
them (see “Payout Icons” on page 15 for more details). 

Resolving the Scoreboard Phase
The first manager flips each token, which reveals a Star 
Power “3” on the “Chaos Warrior” and one Fan Frenzy and 
one Ejection on the “Beastman”.
The first manager immediately ejects the “Beastman” from 
the matchup (and the Fan Frenzy is discarded without 
resolving its effect).
“Human Catcher” has a Scoreboard phase ability that reads 
“If this player is the ball carrier, gain 
.” “Human Catcher” 
is the ball carrier during the Scoreboard phase, so the 
Reikland Reavers’ manager immediately gains one fan.
The Chaos All-Stars’ total Star Power is 6, and the Reikland 
Reavers’ total Star Power is also 6. The Reikland Reavers 
have the ball carrier, so they win the highlight.
The Reikland Reavers’ manager collects the payout for 
his team zone. He takes one team upgrade from his Team 
Upgrade deck and places it in his improvement pile.
He then collects the central payout. He takes two team 
upgrades from his Team Upgrade deck, chooses one to keep 
(which he places in his improvement pile), and places the 
other at the bottom of his Team deck.
The Chaos All-Stars’ manager draws two staff upgrades, 
chooses one to keep (which he places in his improvement pile), 
and places the other at the bottom of the Staff Upgrade deck.

Reveal Improvement Pile
Each manager reveals his improvement pile, which contains all Star Players, 
team upgrades, and staff upgrades that he collected from payouts this round. 
In turn order, each manager reads each card’ text aloud so that all managers 
know what the card does and when it can be used. Reveal cards in the 
following order:
Staff Upgrades
Team Upgrades
Star Players with the Freebooter Ability
All Other Star Players
If a manager drafts a Star Player with the Freebooter ability, the manager 
searches his roster and chooses one player to return to the game box. Then he 
adds the Star Player with the Freebooter ability to his roster and shuffles 
it to create a new Team deck (see “List of Named Abilities” on page 17 for a 
full explanation of the Freebooter ability).
If the manager drafts any Star Players without the Freebooter ability, he 
places them on top of his Team deck in any order. 
Card Abilities
“Jordell Freshbreeze’s” ability reads “Scoreboard Phase: 
If this player is the ball carrier, gain 
.” This ability is 
immediate, so the Athelorn Avenger manager can only gain 
two fans from this ability if the condition is fulfilled during 
the Scoreboard phase.
“Varag Ghoulchewer’s” ability reads “Response: After 
an opposing ball carrier at this matchup becomes downed 
or injured, gain 
.” This ability is ongoing, so Varag’s 
manager can gain several fans over the course of a round.
Payout Sections
Each highlight shows three sections of payouts: two with small 
icons (one on each side of the card) and one with large icons in the 
centre – also known as the central payout. As long as there is at 
least one player on one side of a highlight during the Scoreboard 
phase, that player’s manager is guaranteed to collect that team 
zone’s payout.
Both managers at a highlight are competing over the central 
payout. During the Scoreboard phase, the manager whose team has 
the highest Star Power collects the central payout. 
Payout Icons
Fan: For each icon, gain one fan. The manager increases 
the fan dial on his scoreboard accordingly.
Star Players: For each icon, the manager draws one Star 
Player card from the Star Player deck that corresponds 
to his union membership (OWA or CWC). He looks at 
all the cards drawn and drafts one by placing it in his 
improvement pile. He then places any remaining Star Players at the 
bottom of the Star Player deck in any order. 
Team Upgrade: For each icon, the manager draws 
one Team Upgrade card. He looks at all the cards drawn, 
chooses one to keep, and places it in his improvement pile. 
He then places any remaining team upgrades at the bottom 
of the Team Upgrade deck in any order.
Staff Upgrade: For each icon, the manager draws 
one Staff Upgrade card. He looks at all the cards drawn, 
chooses one to keep, and places it in his improvement pile. 
He then places any remaining staff upgrades at the bottom 
of the Staff Upgrade deck in any order.
Either/Or: Some central payouts offer the winning 
manager a choice between two different rewards. 
When central payouts are separated by a slash, the 
winning manager chooses one of the listed rewards 
as his payout.

Additional Rules
This section explains some additional TMU guidelines.
Player Card Abilities
Player card abilities usually require that a condition be fulfilled before they 
take effect. Some abilities only occur once during a certain part of the round; 
other abilities can be fulfilled several times over the course of the round.
Unless explicitly stated on the card, all abilities only interact with players at 
the same matchup. If two abilities occur during the same phase, resolve them 
in turn order starting with the manager who currently holds the golden coin.
Upgrade Card Abilities
There are four types of Upgrade card abilities: matchup action, response, 
scoreboard phase, and end of game. Some of these cards require managers 
to exhaust them, which means that managers can only use that card once per 
round. To exhaust a card, rotate it clockwise 90°. Cards refresh (rotate to 
their upright position) during the Maintenance phase (see page 8).
Matchup action abilities must be resolved on a manager’s turn during the 
Resolve One Matchup action step of the Matchup phase. Response abilities 
are resolved during the Matchup phase when the conditions are fulfilled. 
Scoreboard phase abilities are resolved during the Scoreboard phase, and end 
of game abilities are resolved after the last week of the season has ended.
If two response abilities contradict each other, the last used response takes 
effect and the previously used response is ignored.
Abilities Based On Winning or Losing
Some card abilities only resolve when a manager’s team wins or loses a 
matchup. At tournaments, the winner and the runner-up are both considered 
winners. Managers who collect the “LOSE!” payout are considered losers. If 
a manager is alone at a highlight or a tournament, he is considered the winner.
Note: A manager must commit at least one player to a matchup in order to 
be considered either the winner or the loser.
Moving a Committed player 
to a Different Matchup
There are some abilities that allow managers to move a player committed 
to a matchup to a different matchup. If a manager resolves this ability, the 
player is considered “moved,” not “committed.” In other words, the player 
cannot use his skills at the new matchup.
A moved player may be placed at any legal matchup where there is an open 
team zone or where a friendly player is already at the matchup.
If a manager resolves this ability to move a ball carrier to a different 
matchup, the manager places the ball token on a friendly player of his choice 
at the original matchup. 
The Cheating Token Pool
The cheating token pool consists of 30 cheating tokens. When a player uses 
the cheating skill, the player’s manager assigns him a cheating token from 
this pool by randomly drawing one token from the pool and placing it on 
that player’s card.
When the rules instruct managers to “discard assigned cheating tokens” set 
these tokens aside. Do not return discarded cheating tokens to the cheating 
token pool until the next Maintenance phase (see page 8).
Gaining and Losing Fans
Each manager has one scoreboard, which has two dials. The dial on the left 
represents the tens, and the dial on the right represents the ones. 
Each time a manager gains fans, he rotates the dials on this scoreboard to 
increase the total number of fans he has accumulated. Each time a manager 
loses fans, he rotates the dials on his scoreboard to decrease the total number 
of fans he has accumulated. A manager cannot have fewer than “00” fans.
Morg ’N Thorg
Morg ’N Thorg is a special Star Player because he has one OWA card and one 
CWC card. If one manager commits Morg ’N Thorg to a matchup, no other 
manager can commit another copy of Morg ’N Thorg to that same matchup.
Playing with Two Managers
This section explains minor rule changes when playing with two managers.
Prepare the Spike! Magazine Deck
To prepare the Spike! Magazine deck, return all Headline cards to the game 
box. Set aside The Blood Bowl card. Shuffle the other three Tournament cards, 
then place The Blood Bowl card on the bottom of pile to create the Spike! 
Magazine deck. Thus, a game with two managers only lasts four rounds.
Roll the Highlights
When rolling the Highlights, reveal four highlights. After two highlights 
each have at least one committed player, return the other two highlights to 
the game box. The managers compete in the two remaining highlights and 
the tournament.
Tournament Payouts
There is no runner-up payout in games with only two managers. The winner 
collects the winner’s payout (next to the trophy), and the loser collects the 
“LOSE!” payout.
If a team is alone at a tournament during the Scoreboard phase, that team’s 
manager collects the winner’s payout and the loser’s payout – but not the 
runner-up’s payout.

Optional Rules
This section explains a few optional TMU rules.
Abbreviated Season
The players are demanding more cash, and there are rumours of a lockout! 
Managers must do the best they can with an abbreviated season – four 
weeks, to be exact.
During setup, there is one revised step and two additional steps, which are 
explained here:
Prepare the Spike! Magazine Deck: Draw one Tournament card (instead 
of two) and two Headline cards (instead of three).
Distribute Starting Improvements: After assigning the first manager, but 
before beginning the game, each manager follows these steps:
Star Players: Each manager draws four Star Player cards from the 
Star Player deck that corresponds to his union membership (OWA 
or CWC). He looks at all the cards drawn and drafts two by placing 
it in his improvement pile. He then places the remaining Star 
Players at the bottom of the Star Player deck in any order.
Team Upgrade: Each manager draws one Team Upgrade card and 
places it in his improvement pile.
Staff Upgrade: Each manager draws three Staff Upgrade cards. He 
looks at all the cards drawn, chooses one to keep, and places it in 
his improvement pile. He then places the remaining staff upgrades 
at the bottom of the Staff Upgrade deck in any order.
Reveal Improvement Pile: Each manager reveals his starting improvements.
Extended Season
The fans are demanding a longer season, and the TMU wants to capitalize 
on the sponsorship money by extending the season! Managers must stretch 
their resources to last through an extended season – six weeks, to be exact. 
During setup, there is one revised step, which is explained here:
Prepare the Spike! Magazine Deck: Draw two Tournament cards and 
three Headline cards (instead of two).
Scheduling Limitations
The TMU is reducing the number of matches per week, which makes 
scheduling a real challenge for managers all over the league!
When rolling the Highlight Reel, only reveal as many highlights as needed for 
the total number of matchups to equal the number of players in the game.
For example, in a four-manager game, if the revealed Spike! Magazine card 
is a headline, the first manager reveals four highlights. If the revealed Spike! 
Magazine card is a tournament, the first manager reveals only three highlights. 
List of Named Abilities
This section lists and explains all named abilities in greater detail.
Dauntless: When this player attempts to tackle an opposing player whose 
Star Power is higher than this player’s Star Power, roll only one dice and 
apply the result.
Dirty player: If this player injures an opposing player, gain 
.
Dodge: During a tackle attempt against this player, you may force the 
opposing manager to reroll all dice.
Dump-Off: If this player would become the ball carrier or drop the ball, 
you may move the ball to a friendly player at this matchup.
Fend: If an opposing player successfully tackles this player, you may stand 
one of your other downed players at this matchup.
Freebooter: When you reveal this player from your improvement pile, 
you may remove any one Player card from either your Team deck or discard 
pile and return it to the game box. Then add the Freebooter to your roster 
and shuffle it to create a new Team deck. Resolve all Freebooters before 
placing Star Players without the Freebooter ability on top of the Team 
deck. (Unlike other abilities, the Freebooter ability only occurs during 
the turn in which this player was drafted.)
Frenzy: When this player attempts a tackle, increase his Star Power by one 
during the tackle attempt.
Guard: When an opposing player successfully tackles one of your players, 
you may apply the dice result to this player instead. (This ability occurs after 
rolling the dice but before applying the result.)
Juggernaut: When this player attempts a tackle, opposing players cannot 
use the Guard ability.
Nerves of Steel: While this player is the ball carrier, his Star Power is 
increased by one.
Piling On: Each time you roll 
 
 during this player’s tackle attempt, 
this player may attempt another tackle against a different opposing player.
Stand Firm: While this player is the ball carrier, opposing players cannot 
tackle him.
Strip Ball: Instead of using 
, you may place the ball at midfield.
Sure Hands: If this player is the ball carrier and becomes downed, he does 
not drop the ball.
Throw Team-Mate: When played, you may move one of your players 
from this matchup to a different matchup. If the moved player was the ball 
carrier, give the ball to any of your players at this matchup.
Blood Bowl: Team Manager – The Card Game © Games Workshop Limited 2011. Games Workshop, Blood Bowl, and all associated marks, 
logos, places, names, creatures, races and race insignia/devices/logos/symbols, vehicles, locations, weapons, units and unit insignia, char-
acters and illustrations from the Warhammer world and Blood Bowl game setting are either ®, tm and/or © Games Workshop Ltd 2000–2011, 
variably registered in the UK and other countries around the world. This edition published under license to Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. 
Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved to their 
respective owners. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA. 651-639-1905. 
Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to small parts. Actual components may vary from those 
shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.

Index
Abilities Based On Winning or Losing.......................................................16
The Cheating Token Pool............................................................................16
Collect Payouts............................................................................................13
Committing Players to a Matchup...............................................................9
Determine Winner.......................................................................................13
Gaining and Losing Fans.............................................................................16
The Game Round.........................................................................................8
List of Named Abilities...............................................................................17
Maintenance Phase......................................................................................8
Matchup Phase.............................................................................................8
Matchup Phase in Detail..............................................................................9
Moving a Committed Player to a Different Matchup..................................16
Morg ’N Thorg............................................................................................16
Overview.....................................................................................................2
Object of the Game......................................................................................2
Player Card Abilities....................................................................................16
Player States................................................................................................11
Playing with Two Managers........................................................................16
Resolving Matchup actions.........................................................................11
Reveal Improvement Pile............................................................................15
Scoreboard Phase.........................................................................................9
Scoreboard Phase in Detail..........................................................................13
Setup............................................................................................................4
Skills............................................................................................................10
Upgrade Card Abilities................................................................................16
“When Played” Abilities..............................................................................10
Winning the Game ......................................................................................9
Credits
Game Design: Jay Little with Corey Konieczka
Producer: Steven Kimball
Additional Content: Brady Sadler, Lukas Litzsinger, and Dan Clark
Editing & Proofreading: Julian Smith and Talima Fox
Managing Graphic Designer: Brian Schomburg
Graphic Design: Scott Nicely with Michael Silsby and Andrew Navaro
Cover Art: Daren Bader
Interior Art: Alexandr, Erfian Asafat, Daren Bader, Dimitri Bielak, Yoann 
Boissonnet, Alberto Bontempi, Andrew Bosley, Kari Christensen, Crut, 
Anderson Gaston, Andrew Hou, Dan Howard, Ijur, Hendry Iwanaga, Tyler 
Jacobson, Jason Juta, Sam Kennedy, Lius Lasahido, Aaron Miller, Afif 
Numbo, Rio Sabda, Alexandru Sabo, Mark Smith, Matt Smith, Soul Core, 
Nicholas Stohlman, Chase Toole, Grey Thornberry, and John Wigley
FFG Licensing Coordinator: Deb Beck
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Steven Kimball, Zoë Robinson, and JR Godwin
Production Management: Eric Knight
Production Coordinator: Laura Creighton
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Jaffer Batica, Andrew Baussan, Carolina Blanken, Bryan 
Bornmueller, Antonio Borraz, Freekjan Brink, Pedar Brown, Dan Clark, Sam 
Cochiarella, Chris Corbett, Steve Dick, Sean Foster, Marieke Franssen, Andrew 
Frick, John Goodenough, Spencer Greenhalgh, Josh Greenman, Paul Gwilliams, 
Anita Hilberdink, Matthew Holmes, Chris Hosch, Roeland Kegel, Quin 
Kimball, Rob Kouba, Lukas Litszinger, Agustín Lozano, Emile de Maat, Tomás 
Macho, Mack Martin, Brian Mola, Rick Nauertz, Andrew Navaro, Mark Pollard, 
Danny Procell, Martijn Riphagen, Pablo Rojo, Adam Sadler, Brady Sadler, Matt 
Schaning, Chris Shibata, Michael Silsby, Arjan Snippe, Erik Snippe, Sandra 
Stadman, Sam Stewart, Leon Tichelaar, Marjan Tichelaar-Haug, Anton Torres, 
Christian Williams, Lynell Williams, Nik Wilson, and Darrell F. Wyatt
Games Workshop
Licensing Manager: Owen Rees
Head of Licensing: Jon Gillard
Head of Legal, Licensing, and Strategic Projects: Andy Jones
Head of Intellectual Property: Alan Merrett
TM

Skills
Cheating (mandatory)
For each cheating icon, draw one random cheating token from the pool and 
place it facedown (skull-side up) on the player’s card without looking at it.
Passing (optional)
If an opposing player is the ball carrier, move the ball to midfield. If the ball 
is at midfield, move it to the player using the passing skill. If another player 
on the manager’s own team is currently the ball carrier, the manager may 
choose to either leave the ball with the current ball carrier or move it to the 
player using the passing skill.
Sprinting (optional)
For each sprinting icon, the player’s manager draws the top card of his Team 
deck and chooses one card to discard from his hand (he may choose the card 
just drawn).
Tackling (optional)
For each tackling icon, the player may attempt one tackle against any 
opposing player at the same matchup. The tackling player’s manager 
declares the target player and compares his player’s Star Power to the target 
player’s Star Power:
If the tackling player’s Star Power is greater than the target player’s 
Star Power, the manager rolls two tackle dice and chooses one 
result to apply.
If the tackling player’s Star Power is equal to the target player’s Star 
Power, the manager rolls one tackle dice and applies that result.
If the tackling player’s Star Power is less than the target player’s 
Star Power, the manager rolls two tackle dice and the opposing 
manager chooses one result to apply.
The tackle succeeds. If the target player is standing, he becomes 
downed. If the target player is downed, he becomes injured.
The tackle fails.
The target evades or deflects the tackle, and the tackler falls on his 
face. If the tackling player is standing, he becomes downed. In the 
rare situation that the tackling player is downed, he becomes injured.
Quick Reference
The Game Round
The Maintenance Phase
Refresh Cards
Replenish Hand 
Restock the Cheating Token Pool
Reveal the Spike! Magazine Card
Roll the Highlights
Prepare for Kickoff
The Matchup phase
Commit One Player to a Matchup or Pass (mandatory)
	
Resolve When Played Abilities
	
Use Skills
Resolve One Matchup Action (optional)
The Scoreboard Phase
Resolve Matchups
a.	 Reveal Cheating Tokens
b.	 Resolve Scoreboard Phase Abilities
c.	 Determine Winner
d.	 Collect Payouts
e.	 Clear the Pitch
Reveal Improvement Pile
Pass the Golden Coin
Cheating Token Quantities
6 4 9 4 2 4 1