	
The Dark Age is over. The royal heirs, whose infighting and pride caused the
destruction of Blue Moon City, have fled. The corrupt advisors and courtiers who
whispered into their ears have been banished. The bitter division between the
peoples of Blue Moon is beginning to heal. Now is a time of harmony and hope.
But Blue Moon City remains in ruins, the barest outlines in the rubble giving a hint
of the magnificence of the city before its downfall. The people have vowed that the
city must be rebuilt, and the three elemental dragons have returned to help. As
messengers of the god of Blue Moon, they have the power to reunite the Holy
Crystal that once protected the city. The only question that remains is this: To
whom will they bestow the new mantle of leadership?


21 Building tiles (double-sided)
1 Obelisk
80 Cards (10 for each of 8 peoples)
4 Player figures
40 Player markers (10 for each player)
40 Crystal tokens (12 of value 1, 28 of value 3)
15 Golden dragon scales
3 Dragon figures


Contribute to the reconstruction of Blue Moon City to gain crystals. Impress the
dragons to collect golden scales and convert these into crystals. Be the first to make
enough offerings to the obelisk in the central courtyard to gain the leadership of the
city and win the game.
During the game, the players move their figures to various building tiles, where they
use cards to make contributions toward the reconstruction of buildings. When a
player makes a contribution, he places one of his player markers (cubes) on one of
the available spaces on the building tile. When the last available space is filled, the
building is complete and players who made contributions toward its reconstruction
receive rewards in the form of cards, dragon scales, and crystal tokens. Cards may be
used to make future contributions, while dragon scales may be converted into more
crystal tokens. Players use the crystal tokens to make offerings to obelisk. The first
player to make a certain number of offerings to the obelisk wins the game. 


1. Lay out the building tiles with the building sketches faceup in the following way:
Place the courtyard in the center and place the three temples and the palace adjacent
to it exactly as indicated in the illustration. Then shuffle the remaining building tiles
and add them in a random order to complete the city shape.
2. Place the obelisk next to the city. 
3. Place the crystal tokens faceup on one side of the obelisk.
4. Place the golden scales on the other side of the obelisk: For four players use all 15
scales, for three players use 12, and for two players use 9 scales. Leave any remaining
scales in the box.
5. Place the three dragons next to the city.
6. Each player chooses one color, then places the corresponding figure on the
courtyard and the corresponding markers in front of him. Leave any remaining figures
and markers in the box.
7. Shuffle the cards, deal 8 to each player, and place the remaining cards as a
facedown deck next to the city.
Once these steps are complete the play area should look like this:
Blue Moon City

 
Note: Pages 1-3 of this rulebook provide the basic rules of the game. The sidebar on page 4 provides a detailed example of play, and pages 4-5
detail the special powers of the cards. Pages 6-8 offer information about the fantastic world of Blue Moon, but you do not need this
information to play the game. 

!"#$
Select one player to start the game. Then play clockwise. On your turn, go through
the following phases in the indicated order:
1. Movement: You may move your figure up to two steps along adjacent building
tiles. You may not move diagonally. You may change direction during the course of
your move. 
2. Contribution: At the building tile on which you end your movement, you may
use your cards to make one or more contributions to the reconstruction of the
building, as described below. If you end your movement at the courtyard, you may
make an offering to the obelisk during this phase, as described below.
3. Discard and Draw Cards: To conclude your turn, discard zero, one, or two cards
onto a faceup discard pile next to the facedown deck, then draw from the deck two
more cards than you discarded. (When the deck is used up, reshuffle the discard
pile.)
Card Powers: During your turn, you may discard cards from your hand to apply
their powers, as indicated on the cards and as described on pages 4 and 5. 
%	&		
The sketch side of each building tile shows one, two, or three
boxes with a colored number. These indicate the contributions
required for the reconstruction of the building.
In order to make a contribution to the reconstruction of the building that your
figure has reached, you must discard from your hand one or more cards of the
corresponding color with a total equal to or greater than indicated in the box. Then
place one of your player markers (cubes) on the box. 
You may make any number of contributions, but you must make
each one of them separately, with separate cards from your hand.
Contributions to the four boxes of the royal palace can be made
in any color. However, for each box you may only use one color.
	&		
When you place a marker on the last open box of a building, the reconstruction of
the building is complete, and the building is scored.
The player who has the most markers on the building (with ties being broken by the
marker farther left) receives crystal tokens, cards, or golden scales as indicated in the
upper left-hand corner of the building to the right of the asterisk.
Each player who made at least one contribution to the building (including the player
who already received the “most markers” reward) receives crystal tokens, cards, or
golden scales as indicated in the upper left-hand corner of the building tile
underneath the asterisk. 
Furthermore, each player who made at least one contribution to the building
receives crystals, cards, and/or golden scales as depicted on all the orthogonally
adjacent buildings that have already been completed. (The sketch side of each
building tile shows its “neighborhood” reward in the upper-right hand corner, but
this only becomes relevant after its completion.) Even if you made more than one
contribution to the building, you score only once.
Place any golden scales and crystals you receive in front of you, keeping your crystal
tokens facedown so that only you can consult their values. Place any cards you
receive facedown in front of you without looking at them, and add them to your
hand after your turn is completely over.
After scoring a building, the players retrieve their markers, the building tile is flipped
over to show the completed building, and any figures or dragons present are placed
back on the tile.
'

Dragons are moved in the city through the card powers described on pages 4 and 5.
When dragons are present on the building tile where you make one or more
contributions to the reconstruction of the building, then for each dragon present
you receive one golden scale. Even if you make more than one contribution during
your turn, you receive the golden scales only once.
	

There are two independent ways to receive golden scales: by making contributions in
the presence of dragons or by scoring a completed building. When the last golden
scale is taken during one of these actions, the golden scales are scored instantly. Any
scales that could not be awarded because the scales had run out are still counted
towards the respective players’ totals.
If there is a single player with the most golden scales, he or she scores 6 crystals. If
more than one player is tied for the most scales, they each score three crystals. All
players who have at least 3 golden scales are guaranteed 3 crystals. Players who have
fewer than 3 golden scales receive no crystals.
After the golden scales have been scored, players who have received crystals must
return their golden scales to the supply. Players who have not received crystals keep
their golden scales.
Example: You currently have 5 golden scales, and your two opponents have 4 and 2,
respectively. Due to the presence of 2 dragons, you receive 2 golden scales for your
contribution. Only 1 golden scale is available, therefore, you receive the last one, but an
extra golden scale is still counted for you, bringing the number of your golden scales to 7.
The golden scales are now scored: You have the most golden scales, so you receive 6
crystals; your opponent with 4 golden scales receives 3 crystals; and the other opponent
Reward for the player with the most contributions
Reward for each player
who made a
contribution
“Neighborhood” reward
“Sketch” side of a
building tile
Completed side of a
building tile
The Royal Palace

with 2 golden scales receives no crystals but keeps his 2 golden scales. All other golden
scales are then returned.
Note: The number of golden scales used in the game is limited, as indicated in the
setup instructions. The number of player markers each player may place is limited by
the components provided (10 per player). However, the number of crystals is not
limited. If necessary, use extra tokens to reward each player with the appropriate
number of crystals when scoring a building or the dragon scales. 
		(
When your figure reaches the courtyard, you may make an offering
to the obelisk. 
The boxes on the obelisk are filled from the bottom up. If you
spend the indicated number of crystals, you may place one of your
markers on the corresponding box. (In the two-player game, do not
use the two shaded “7” boxes at the base of the obelisk.) 
It is possible to make two or more offerings to the obelisk in a single
turn through the use of Pillar cards (see the explanation of card
powers on pages 4 and 5). 
Dragons on the courtyard have no effect. That is, you do not receive
dragon scales for making an offering to the obelisk when dragons
are present (as you would for making a contribution to a building
when dragons are on the building tile). 
)		

One player wins the game when he or she has made the following number of
offerings to the obelisk:
2-player game: 6 offerings
3-player game: 5 offerings
4-player game: 4 offerings
It is possible (though unlikely) for every building in the city to be rebuilt without
any player having enough crystals to make the required number of offerings to end
the game. In this situation, play until every player has made as many offerings as he
or she can, then the player who has made the most offerings to the obelisk wins. Ties
go to the player who has the most remaining crystals. If this is also tied, the tied
players share the victory.
It is also possible for all players to run out of player markers (by placing all 10 of
their cubes on unfinished buildings and the obelisk). This is most likely to happen
in a 2-player game. In this situation, the game ends in a draw.
*	
For more variety, place the courtyard in the center and add all other building tiles in
a random order to complete the city setup.

+,"
1. You start your turn by moving your figure from the hospice to the university.
2. You discard a blue card of value “1” from your hand and apply its power to fly 
the blue dragon to the university, as explained under “The Card Powers.” 
3. Then you use a white “2” and a white “3” from your hand to make a 
contribution to the reconstruction of the university, placing your marker on the 
value 5 box.
Because there are two dragons (red and blue) on the university, you receive 2 golden
scales.
	&		
Your contribution to the university also completes the reconstruction of the
building. Therefore the university is now scored. Since you and your opponent both
made one contribution to the university, but your marker is farther to the left, you
receive the reward to the right of the asterisk: 1 golden scale.
Then you and your opponent both receive the reward underneath the asterisk – a
crystal token of value 1 – for completing the university. Furthermore, both players
receive 3 crystals for the fire temple’s “neighborhood” reward and 2 cards for the
market hall’s “neighborhood” reward. The royal palace is not yet complete, so it does
not bestow a “neighborhood” reward. 
Finally, the players retrieve their markers, the university is flipped over to show its
completed side, and the two dragons and the purple player figure are placed back on
the university tile. 
You conclude your turn by discarding 2 cards from your hand and drawing 4 new
ones.
$"-
The cards have values ranging from 1 to 3, and these values represent your
contribution to the reconstruction of buildings. In addition, the cards with values 1
and 2 have powers that you can use instead of contributing them as normal, as
described below. 
&(.*/
The Vulca revere Lika the Fire Dragon.
During your Movement phase:
Vulca (black) card of value 1: Discard to fly the red dragon to any space
(the dragon may be inside or outside the city).
Vulca (black) card of value 2: Discard to move the red dragon up to three
spaces (if the dragon is already in the city).
%.$/
The Terrah revere Doran the Earth Dragon. 
During your Movement phase:
Terrah (red) card of value 1: Discard to fly the green dragon to any space
(the dragon may be inside or outside the city).
Terrah (red) card of value 2: Discard to move the green dragon up to
three spaces (if the dragon is already in the city).
&.!0/
The Aqua revere Sesha the Water Dragon.
During your Movement phase:
Aqua (blue) card of value 1: Discard to fly the blue dragon to any space
(the dragon may be inside or outside the city).
Aqua (blue) card of value 2: Discard to move the blue dragon up to three
spaces (if the dragon is already in the city). 
Fire Temple
University
Market Hall
Courtyard
Royal Palace
Hospice

.	/
The bird-like Flit transport the players. 
During your Movement phase:
Flit (grey) card of value 1: Discard to move your figure to any space.
Flit (grey) card of value 2: Discard to move your figure up to two
additional spaces.
Note: Since the power of the Flit can only be used during your movement
phase, it is not possible to use a Flit card to make a contribution at one
building tile and then move your figure to another tile. 

.1	/
The childlike Khind may be used as any color card. 
During your Contribution phase:
Any Khind (green) card: All Khind cards are wild cards of value 1 and can
be used as or added to any color to make one contribution.
&-.2		,/
The nature-connected Mimix can make a contribution of any color, but only when
two of them are used in combination. 
During your Contribution phase:
Any Mimix (brown) card of value 1 or 2: Any two Mimix cards
of values 1 or 2 count as one wild card of value 3 and can be
used as or added to any color to make one contribution. (Two
brown 1s, two brown 2s, or a brown 1 and a brown 2 may be
discarded together to form a wild card of value 3.)
)	.3,/
The sophisticated Hoax can convert colors.
During your Contribution phase:
Hoax (white) card of value 1: Discard to change the color of up to four
cards of one color into another color for the purpose of making one
contribution. (You cannot “recolor” the card powers.)
Hoax (white) card of value 2: Discard to change the color of one of your
cards to make one contribution. (You cannot “recolor” the card powers.)
4-."	/
The Pillar enable you to make multiple offerings to the obelisk in a single turn. 
During your Contribution phase:
Pillar (yellow) card of value 1: After you have made an offering to the
obelisk, you may discard this card to make one additional offering to the
obelisk. However, you must spend 1 additional crystal in order to do so
(e.g., to place a cube in the “8” space on the obelisk you would have to
discard 9 crystals). 
Pillar (yellow) card of value 2: After you have made an offering to the
obelisk, you may discard this card to make one additional offering to the
obelisk. However, you must spend 2 additional crystals in order to do so.
	
The Author: Reiner Knizia is one of the world’s most famous and successful game
designers. He has designed over 200 games, published in many languages and
countries. In particular, his “Lord of the Rings” fantasy games are played all over the
world.
Reiner Knizia expresses his special gratitude to David Farquhar and Kevin Jacklin for
their contributions to the development of the Blue Moon world. Many thanks go to
the numerous playtesters, in particular Iain Adams, Jon Blackwell, Sebastian
Bleasdale, Chris Bowyer, John Christian, Chris Dearlove, Martin Higham, Ross
Inglis, Kevin Jacklin, and Andy Parsons.
© 2006 Kosmos Verlag, Stuttgart
Original Title: Blue Moon City
Editing: TM-Spiele
Card Illustrations: Daren Bader, Scott M. Fischer, Lars Grant-West, Todd
Lockwood, John Matson, Jim Nelson, Michael L. Phillippi, Franz Vohwinkel 
Illustration and Graphics: Franz Vohwinkel
English/U.S. Edition Editorial: Robert Vaughn and James Torr
Published in the English Language exclusively by:
Fantasy Flight Games
1975 West County Road B2
Roseville, MN 55113
www.fantasyflightgames.com
MADE IN GERMANY


Before the Dark Age, the courtyard had been the cornerstone of all
life in Blue Moon City. In the center of it stood an obelisk, and at
its pinnacle was the Holy Crystal of Psi. It was through this crystal
that the benevolent god of Blue Moon once maintained a
connection with his worshippers. Only by restoring the Holy
Crystal of Psi, which was shattered during the infighting of the
royal heirs, will the city of Blue Moon be restored.
%"
The old king once lived here, together with Prince Roland and
Princess Elinor. The palace is to be rebuilt east of the courtyard.
Although the building will initially be vacant, the people hope that
the god of Blue Moon will give his blessing to a new king or queen
once the Holy Crystal of Psi is restored.
	$
The Fire Temple stood on the northern side of the courtyard. The
temple was home to Lika the Fire Dragon, and at the building’s
heart burned the Holy Fire. A people called the Vulca served as the
high priests, or Chosen Ones, of Lika. The Fire Dragon taught his
servants to manipulate the essence of flame, which is among the
purest expressions of magic and power.
+$
The Earth Temple stood on the southern edge of the courtyard. It
was home to Doran the Earth Dragon, and in its courtyard stood
the Holy Tree of Life. Many Terrah served as Doran’s Chosen Ones.
Doran’s area of concern was the essence of earth, which has the
power to create and protect life itself. 
)$
The Water Temple stood on the western edge of the courtyard. It
lay between the Earth and Fire Temples, balancing those two
opposing elements both physically and spiritually. This temple was
home to Sesha the Water Dragon, and its walls housed the Holy
Spring. An aquatic race called the Aqua served as Sesha’s Chosen
Ones, under whose teachings they learned of balance and harmony.
Power is worthless, Sesha taught, without the wisdom and restraint
necessary to control it.
!0
The aqueduct was a masterpiece of masonry that ensured that the
waters of the Holy Spring flowed throughout Blue Moon City. The
aqueduct had been designed by the Hoax, built by the Terrah, and
maintained by the Aqua - a true demonstration of the former
harmony between the peoples. If the aqueduct can be restored, that
harmony will live again!
3	
For many Terrah it was a holy duty to make a pilgrimage to the
Earth Temple of Blue Moon City each Moonday. These pilgrims
traditionally lodged in the Terrah hospice and, when there was
room, other peoples were also welcome there.
	
Everything that Lika’s Chosen Ones learned about magic and
power, they passed on to their fellow Vulca. This has made them
mighty, but also proud. The sorcerers of the Vulca now have taken
command of the Citadel and refuse entrance to all others. Perhaps
if the Fire Temple is rebuilt, the Vulca will return to their holy
place and open the Citadel to the other peoples once more.
)-
This great watchtower was maintained by the Flit, a winged people
who patrolled the skies for Blue Moon City. Although it was
impervious to ground assault, it fell during the earthquake on the
Night of Doom. If it is rebuilt, it will become more than just a
home; it will become a monument to future generations of Flit,
reminding them that their airborne lives are ever connected to
those tied to the ground.

3
The Great Hall was the most important meeting point for the
Mimix, a sisterhood that boasted as many mighty warrior women
as it did shrewd sages. Its reconstruction would ensure that their
strength and wisdom will serve Blue Moon City again.
5	6	
Before the Dark Age, the Hoax instructed all the peoples, and the
University was their center of learning. The elders of the University
also oversaw the construction of strange devices, which in the Dark
Age were used for destruction rather than for learning. The Hoax
have now bent those same versatile machines to the task of rebuilding,
and have pledged to pass their remaining knowledge to the younger
generations once construction is complete.
The Buildings of Blue Moon City

2(3
The Market Hall held art, crafts, strange brews and creatures:
Anything that the people called the Pillar could find in their travels to
distant lands, they sold here. These master merchants kept only the
most valuable and exotic of items for themselves, and even those were
available . . . for a price. Nowhere else in Blue Moon City did so many
different kinds of peoples gather in such a small space, and nowhere
else did rumors spread so quickly. If Blue Moon City is to be reborn,
the Market Hall must play a part in that rebuilding.
7	
Before the Dark Age, the Blue Moon Library was a treasure trove of
wisdom. Even after it is rebuilt, the Hoax will need many years to
rewrite what knowledge survived. It will be many generations before
the tomes and histories of Blue Moon have been restored. 
$	3
Whatever the Pillar could not or would not sell at the Market Hall,
they stored at their trading house. This was also the center for
importing and exporting goods to foreign peoples like the Phar and
the Buka.
	$-
This perfectly constructed (from the Flit point of view) tower
featured a vast array of landing places and entry lanes. Though the
childlike Khind liked to mock the tower, it was a Flit haven.
	%	
Whenever the Great Spirit Mistress of the Mimix visited Blue
Moon City, she resided here. She rarely came to Blue Moon City in
the last decades before the Dark Age, but with the rebuilding of the
city and the beginning of a new age, this should change.
2$-
Little is known about the everyday lives of the Flit, and even less is
known about what goes on behind the walls of their Monastery
Tower. The Khind claim to have seen what goes on here, but when
questioned, they only giggle. Perhaps in the new age the Flit will let
outsiders view their most secret rites.
6	
The Caravanserai served as a meeting point for the Pillar, a place
for them to recover from the exertions of a long journey, share
news about foreign lands, and enjoy each other’s company. The
Khind are underfoot here more than anywhere else, as they love to
listen to the tales of these travelers.
$
The Thermae acted as a refuge in Blue Moon City, its hot springs
allowing the peoples to soak away their aches and woes. They were
not used solely for recreation, however; the waters here were
warmed by fires deep within the earth, serving as a reminder of
water’s power to conjoin the two elements. 

Fire is a destructive element, but it can also create. The Iron
Foundry is an unfortunate example of this: The tools here
benefited all the peoples of Blue Moon City, just as the weapons
forged here harmed them all. Still, if the city is to rebuilt, the fires
of the forge must be relit. 
The Terrah find fulfillment in farming the land, and were once
responsible for provisioning Blue Moon City with grain. This
Mill must be restored if the many workers of the rebuilding are to
be fed.

	

		
		
	
 
!
	
	
"!#$#	!

	%

	

%			!
	&!		!

&2&

'()*+$,-.
&2+,	
/'()-
+--.
'()-
+--.
'	'()-
+--.
'()-
+--.
0'()-

+--.
'()-!
+--.
%'()-	
+--.
!'()-
+--.