BWE&GRAY 
STANDARD RULES 
for the game 
Road to Richmond 
CopVright CI 19n, Simulations Publications Inc., New York, N.Y. 10010 
BLUE & GRAY 
STANDARD RULES 
OUTLINE 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
l.oGAM[ EQUIPM ENT 
1.1 Tht Gam( Map 
1.1 Gamt Chan, and Table:< 
1,) The P1aying P\cca 
1.4 HQ" 10 R.ad the Uni,. 
1.5 Cam. Se.I. 
2.6 Pans Inventory 
3.0 SETTING UP THE GAME 
4.0 SEQUENCE Of' PLAY 
4.1 S4:qucn .... Oulline 
5.0 MOVEMENT 
5.1 Prohibitions 
S.l Effm. of To,.,..;n 
5.3 Efferl~ of Friendly Uni,s 
6.0 ZONES or CONTROL 
7.0 COMBAT 
7.1 Which Unirs Auatk 
7.1 Multiple Unit and Multi.Hex Combat 
7.3 Combat Strength Unity 
7.4 Effe<:u of Te.n;n 
7.5 Diven;"na.,. Amcks 
7.6 Explanation of Ccnnb.t Resuh. 
7.7 Rc're. 'ing . nd Advancing 1I.lI' Resuh of Comb.1 
7.8 Displacement 
7.9 Voluntary RftluClion of Comb'l Odd. 
1.0 ARTILLERY 
1.1 Bombardment Au..,k. 
1.2 Combined Anack. 
1.3 Une of Sight 
1.4 Adjaccn! AUKk. 
&05 Der~n.., 
9.0 TERRAIN U 'F£CfS CHART 
10.0 NIGHT GAM£·TURNS 
10.1 Effect on Combat 
10.2 Eff~ on M""ement 
11.00PT10NAL RULE, ATTACK EFFEcnVENESS 
11 .1 How Effect;.~ntSs ;s Lost 
11 .2 RtSults of I..ols 
11.3 En~m1 'lontS of Control 
11.4 Rero\'cry of Au..,k Eff~ i.tness 
n.o OESlGNER'S NOTES 
[1.0J INTRODUCTION 
The Blut It Gl1Iy G.me Sysltm is .n oper.tion.1 
simulation of w.rfare during the Americ.n Civil 
W. r cr •. Each game in the syslem represents one 
of the gre.t billies in the period. The Playing 
Pieces represent Ihe actual units which partici· 
pt.ted in the bailles, . nd Ihe Map represents !he 
Itrrain oyer which those units fought. 
Two rules folders are provided. The first contains 
SlaDdani RWei. which arc common to all the 
gimes in the Biltel: Gray system. The 5C(:ond 
folder conlains Ellchuive RuJea for the game you 
have pur.:hased, and Inili.l Deployment and 
Reinforcement Rules for thi:; g.me only. 
This game has been designed to insure muimum 
playability and muimum reality (in that order). In 
order to achieve these goals. the physical compo-
nents, as well as the game rules. have been 
designed to make the game euier to understand 
and play. The components ind ude. sm.ller. more 
compact playi ng map, never more th.n a 
hundred playing pieces. and slandardiled rules. 
The standardization makes it easier for Ihe gamer 
to go from one game to anolher within the series. It 
al50 enables the games' designers to concentrate 
on the realism aspect of the g.mes. (The nand.rd· 
uation generally takes care of any playability 
problems.) 
[2.0J GAME EQUIPMENT 
[1.11 THE GAME MAP 
The 22" " 17" mapshcct portrays the area in which 
the battle was fought. II Includes all the signifICant 
terrain in the b.ttle. It . 150 displays a variety of 
Charts and Tables which ISsist play. 
A hengonal grid is superimposed over the terrain 
features printed on the mapshcci in order to 
rtgularize movement and positioning of the 
playing piC(:es. 
To make Ihe map lie flat. back·fold it against the 
creases. Small pieces of masking tape m.y be used 
at the corners of Ihe map 10 hold it taut. 
[1.11 GAME CHARTS AND TABLES 
V.rious visual aids are provided for the players in 
order to simplify and illustrate certain g.me 
functions. These are the Terrain EffC(:ts Chan. the 
Combat Results T.ble. the Reinforcement Chan 
.nd the Deployment Chart. 
[2.3J THE PLA YlNG PIECES 
The cardboard pieces repre~nt the actual military 
units that took part in the original bailie. The 
numbers and symbols on the pieces represent the 
strength, movement capability. and type of unit 
rtpresented by thl! piece. These pl.ying pieces will 
hereafter be referred 10 as " units." 
[1.4] HOW TO READ THE UNITS 
Uolt De';iDltioOi 
Confederate units arc identified by their comman-
der's name. Union uniu are idenlified by numerals 
in this sequence: b riRadcldi~ision/corps {roman 
REMOVING THE RULES FROM THIS ISSUEl 
numeral). Example: "2J3/ IV" is the 2nd Brigade 
of the 3Td Division. 4th Corps. 
Uall Typa 
~ 
Infantry 
C2jCavalry 
Unit SI,.;", 
111 = Regiment 
X = Brigade 
Artillery[!] 
XX = Division 
XXX = Corps 
Combal Stn!:n&ib is the relative strength of a unit 
when attacking and defending, expressed in terms 
of Strength Points. 
Mo~emtnl AlIowan~ is the muimum number of 
dear terrain hexes which a unit may be moved in a 
single Movement Point; the MovemeOi Allowance 
for all units is six Movement Points. More than one 
Movement Point may be expended for each hex 
entered. 
{loS1 GAME SCALE 
Each hengon on the map repre§enlS 400 meters of 
real terrain from side to side. Each Strength Point 
represents between 250 and 350 men. 
[1.6] PARTS INVENTORY 
Folio GaJDel 
Game Map 
Die·Cut Counter Sheet 
Standard Rules Folder 
Qu.driGaJDe; 
, 
• 
2 identical 
Exclusive Rules Folder 
4 different 
Die (or Randomizcr) 
Game Box 
Folio( Folderl 
Ihny of these pan s are damaged or missing, write 
Customer Service 
Simulatinns Publicllions. 
44 East 23rd Street 
New York. N.Y. 10010 
Inc. 
Questions regild ing the rules of the game. if 
accompanied by a stamped. §elf·addressed enve-
lope. will be answered. Send to Game Questions 
Editor at the above address. 
[3.0J SETTING UP THE GAME 
The cardboard Playing Pieces shou ld be punched 
out of the Unit Counter Shcct. The blue colored 
pieces repre~nt Union forces; the gray colored 
pieces represent Confederate forces. The mapshcet 
should be unfolded and then backfolded .gainst 
the creases to make it lie flat. Pl.yers should 
determine who will be the Confederate Player and 
who will be the Uninn Player. 
The Players then consult their respective Initial 
Deployment Charts. These charts tell the hex 
number. strength and Designation of each unit 
which is in play (on the map) during the first 
Game·Turn. Players should simullaneously place 
each of these units in iu proper position on the 
map. All remaining units should be placed aside 
and brought into play according to the Reinforce· 
ment Chart. In sctting up units, Players may 
disregard historical designatiDns. so Inng as the 
unit type and strength .re correct. 
Once the units arc set up. Players arc ready to 
commence Game-Turn One; place the Game·Turn 
Marker in the first position on the Game·Turn 
Track. 
In order to determine which Player is the first 
Player and which the SC(:ond Pl.yer, consult the 
Exclusive Rules folder. There Players will .lso find 
rules for bringing in the reinforcement units which 
are given on the ReinfOt'«ment Chan. Play 
proceeds according to the Sequence of PI'y 
tllrough the final G.me·Turn. 
O~n the map-dne to the cenler; be-nd open the .taplfs with. pea1mIfe or .crewdrl"'1'; Uft oal the rWea &.lid e'- the .taplea, 

14.0J SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
The game' is pl.yed in successive Game·Turns 
composed of .hern'lt PI.yn-Turns. During each 
PI.yer-Turn, the Player m.neuVC'fli his units and 
roolves c:ombal in Sfiluencc. according 10 the 
following oulline, ,lid within the limits provided by 
the rules .... hich follow. AI the conclusion of the 
final Game·Turn, the Victory Conditions are con-
sulted and a winner is determined. 
14.1 ) SEQUENCE OUTUNE 
The Game-Turn is divided into I First Player-Turn 
and • Second Player-Turn. The Player w!lose 
Player-Tum is cum:ntly in progn$s ;s termed the 
Ptluing Player. The .ctivity which may 'Ike place 
during each Phut is ouliincd below: 
I. FIRST PLAYER·TURN 
A. Move_nf Phase: The Phasing Player may 
mO¥O! an. some or none or his units as he desires 
within the limits and restrictions of the rules of 
Movement Ind Zones of Control. and the Exclusive 
Rules of the game. The Pha§ing Player may bring 
~inforc~m~nt uniu onto th~ map as allow~d by his 
R~inforccm~nt schedule and Ih~ Reinforcement 
rules. The non· Phasing Player's units may not 
mOlie. 
B. Cemba, PbIlH: The Phasing PI.yer uses his 
units to .It.~k the non· Phasing Player's uniu 
K1:ording to the rules of Comb.t and Anillery. 
During this Phase neither Player may movt his 
uniu except .. hen forced to. as a result of the 
Comb.t Resolution procedu~. 
2. SECOND PLAYER·TURN 
The Second Player now becom" the Phasing 
Play~r and accomplishes mOliement and combat in 
Ihe manner described above. 
J. GAME·TURN RECORD INTERPHASE 
The- Game-Turn marker should be il(!vanccd one 
space on Ihe Game-Turn RCI;ord Track to mark 
the passage of one Game-Turn and signal the stan 
of another. 
IS.OJ MOVEMENT 
GENERAL. RULE: 
During the Movement Phase. the Phasing Player 
may move IS many or as fe .. of his units 15 ht 
desires. They may be mOIled in any direction or 
combination of directions. 
PROCEDU RE: 
Uniu are mOIled one II a time tracing a pith of 
contiguous hexes through the he. grid. As • unit 
entus each hex, it must pay one or more 
Movement Points from iu Moyement Allowance. 
The MOliement AlIowal>C'C of all uniU is si. 
Movtmenl Poinu. Thus. a unit can move through 
si. clear terrain hues in a single Movement Phase. 
[5.11 PROHIBITIONS 
15.111 Monment may nO!¥o:t take place out or 
$'!quence. A Pl.yer's uniu may be moved during 
his own MOliement Ph.$'!. During the Combat 
Phase. a unit which iii either .ttacking or 
defending may be called upon to . dnnce or 
retreat .fter iu combat is rcsolYCd. During the 
Enemy Player's Movement Phase. and during both 
Player', Combll Pha5C5. except when advancins or 
retreating as a result of combal. Friendly units 
must not be moved. 
15.111 A unit may never enter a hell containing an 
enemy unit. 
[5,131 A unit may nO!¥er exit.n Enemy controlled 
he. dUr;nll . ny MOliement Phase. An Enemy 
controlled he. m.y be left only during a retreat or 
advance as a result of combat (sec 7.7). 
IS.14J No combat t.kes placcduring the Movement 
PIl.se. Once. Player has begun to resolve combat, 
and hl.'i thro"'n tht die. he 
ha~ im:versibly 
initiated the Combat Pha$'!. 
IS.1S1 The number of Movement Poinu upended 
by a unit during a single Movement PIla$'! may not 
exceed the Movement allooo·ance. A unit may 
expend any portion of the Movement Allowance. 
but unused Movement Points m.y nOt be accumu· 
lated until another MOliement Phase or tr.nsfetl'Cd 
to another unit. 
15.161 Movement from hex to hex must be con$'!-
cutive; that is to say. a unit may not skip hexes. 
15.171 Once a unit has been moved. and the 
Player's hand is taken from the piece. it may not be 
mOIled auy further during that Movement Phase. 
nor may it change its mOlie without the consent of 
t~ opposing Player. 
[5.2] EFFECTS OF TERRAIN 
15.21] A unit must expend one Movement Point to 
enter a clear terrain hn. To enter other types of 
terrain. a unit must oftcn e.pend up to six 
Movement Points. And some hex" a~ prohibited 
to movement entirely. See 9.0. Terrain Effects 
Char\. 
[5.22] A unit ""hich mOlies from one mad he. 
directly into an adjacent road hn through a road 
heuide npends only one Movement Point. 
regardless of other ternin in tht hex. 
15.23] A unit ""hich mOlies from one trail he. 
directly into an adjacent tuil hex through a trail 
heuide npends two Movement Points if the hel 
being entered contains forest andlor rough terrain. 
If the hex being entcred contains clear ICruiu. the 
unit expends one Movement Point. 
15.241 Units may nc,'cr cnter ri~er hues. They may 
cros~ ri"en only by ~oving through river ferry 
h-cxn. Units may never end thcir movement ;n a 
river ferry he •. They may enter. r;\'er terry hex 
only 11 they retain sufficient Movement points to 
encer the ri>er ferry hex and the hex on the 
op~lIC b.ank 111 the same Movement Pha$'!. and 
O1~y only entCr and nil through the henidcs to 
.. -hich the DfTO'\II indicators point. 
15,]51 Units may nO!¥er CI'05S cl'ttk ~.sidC$. They 
ma), cross creeks only lIy movinglhrough bridge or 
ford hnsidCli. There ;s no .ddillonal COSt for 
mOIling through 
D bridge hexside. Movement 
through a ford henidc costs OM .ddltlonal Move· 
O1ent I'oinl. Example: if a unit moves through a 
turd hcx§ide incn a fore~1 hn. the cost is four 
Movemcnt Poinu. 
15.3] EFFECTS OF FRIENDLY UNITS 
[5.311 A Friendly unit may movt through hexes 
occupied by other Friendly uniu. There is no 
additional cost for entering. Fricndly·OttUpied 
.... 
[S.32J A Friendly unit may end any Phase S1aclied 
in the same hex with ont other Frj,cndly unil. That 
is. a maximum of two units (rellardless of strength 
or unit type) may be stacked in a single he •. 
15.331 There is no limit to the number of Friendly 
units which may pass through a single hn ;n one 
Movement Pha$'!. 
[5.341 Friendly controlled hues nO!¥er inhibit the 
movement of Friendly units. 
16.0J ZONES OF CONTROL 
The si. heugons immediately surrounding a hex 
constitute the Zon~ of Control of any units in that 
hex. Hues upon .... hlch a unit exerts a Zone of 
Control are called controlled hexes .nd inhibit the 
moo-cment of Enemy units: All units mu§t cca$'! 
movcment when they enter an Enemy controlled 
.... 
16.IJ All units exert. Zone of Control throughout 
the Game-Turn. regardless of the Ph.se Of Player· 
Turn. The prcst:nce of Zones of Control is never 
negated by uniu. Enemy Of Friendly. 
[6.21 Units do not pay any additional MOlitment 
Points to tnter an Enemy controlled hex. as in 
some other SPI games. 
[6.31 Therc are only two .. ays to exit . hex in an 
Enemy Zone or Control: Either by 
~trell Of 
lIIYance as a rcsult of combat. 01' by remov.l of the 
Enemy unit eJCrting the Zone ofConlrolas a ~ult 
of combat. 
[6.41 Obviotuly. ir a given unit is in an Enemy 
controlled he •• the Enemy unit is also in its 
controlled hn. T~ two units are equally .nd 
mutually .ffected. 
[6.51 If there is an Enemy and Friendly Zone of 
Control e.erted over the s.ame he •• both Zones 
oo-exist, and th'at hCJ is mutually controlled by 
both Playcrs. There is no addltlonal effect from 
having more than one unl! e.erting Zones of 
Control onto a single heJ:. 
16.61 Zones of Control always ClItend into all sill 
he.es adjacent 10 the controlling unit's he •. with 
this exception: Zones of Control never eJlcnd 
through non.bridge .nd non·ford CTttk hexside:s 
01' into River Ferry hcses. 
Example: 
17.0J COMBAT 
Combat between adjacent opposing units is 
mandatory. Artillery uniu (8.0) are the only units 
which may attack units to which Ihc-y are n01 
adjacent. The Phasing Player is termed tht 
Att.cker; the other P1aytT is the Defender. rellard-
Ies$ of the overall situation. 
PROCEDURE: 
The Attacker lou.ls the Combat Strengths of . 11 
the unilli .ttacking I given hn and comp.~s the 
total to the total Combat Strellgths of the 
defending units in the he. under . ttack. The 
comparison is cspressed as a ratio beIWeen 
.ttacking and defendins Strength Points (at· 
tacking Strength Points divided by dtfendlnll 
Strength Points) .nd is simplified by roundinl 
down to one of the odds ratios on the Combat 
R"uIU T.ble. Eumple: if thirteen Strength 
Points were att.eking rour. the combal oddli rado 
would be J.2S to I. rounded orrealways ill ravor of 
the defended to three to one. 
Havillg determined the .ctual combat oddli. the 
att.cker rolls the die. The result indicates a lint on 
the Combat Results Table (7.6). which is cross· 
indexed with the column reprcscntinll the combat 
odds. The intersection of line and column yields. 
lcontinufii 011 ~ 
S3) 

combat result. This should be immediately applied 
to the involved units. before going on to resolve any 
other combat. Separate combats may be resolved 
in anyordet that the Attacker wishes. so long as all 
combats are re$Ol~ed durillg that Combat Pha!Oe. 
[7. IJ WHICH UNITS ArrACK 
[7.11] All Enemy ullits that have Friendly ullits in 
their Zonn of Control must be attacked by the 
Friendly (Phl$ing) Player·s units in the Combat 
Phase. He may reso!>·e these attacks in any fUhion 
desired. as long 1$ all adjacent units arc anacked, 
,,·ithin the requirements of 7.2. 
[7.11] All of the Phasing Player's units which end 
the MO"I'ement Phase in an Enemy controlled hex 
must attack some Enemy unit during thc ensuing 
Combat Phase. The Phasing Player may choose 
which attacking units will attack each defending 
unit as long as all adjacent Friendly units 
participate in an attack. 
[7.1l] An Enemy-occupied hex may be attacked by 
as many units as can be brought to bear in si~ 
adjacent hues. and by as many artillery units ali 
are within range (sec 8.0). 
]7.141 No unit mayallack morc than once per 
Combat Phase, and no Enemy unit may be 
attacked more than once per Combat Phase. 
[7.15] Units may only attack when adjacent to the 
defcnding unit (eu'eption; !it:e 8.0). 
17.11 MULTIPLE UN IT AND 
MULTI.HEX COMBAT 
[7.11] All units defending in a given heK mUSt be 
attacked as a single strength. The defender may 
not ... ·ithhold a unit in a hu under attack. The 
attacker must attack all the units in a stack 
together; the Strength$ of all the units in the hex 
are tOlalled, and this total Strength is anacked. 
Different units in a given hex may nOt be attacked 
!Oeparately. 
[7.21] If more .lhan one attatklng unit is in a givcn 
heK, the!Oe units must be used as an integral 
Combat Streogth. They may not be used in 
separate attacks. 
]7.13] If a Phuing Playcr's unit is in the Zone of 
Control of more than one Enemy unit. it must 
atlack all those adjacent Enemy units which are 
nOt engaged by some other attacking unit. 
17.14] Unitli in two or more different hcxes may 
combine their Combat Strengths and attack a 
single hex. if all the anacking units are adjacent to 
(or arc within range 00 the Enemy occupied hex. 
[7.15[ Attacks may involve any number of 
attacking or defending units on different he~es. 
For the attacks to be resolved as a single combat. 
however. 111 the attacklng unU. must be adjacent 
10 aJJ tht deft ndlna unl .. , with the addition of 
bombarding artillery units .... ·hich need not be 
adjacent. 
[7.31 COMBAT STRENGTH UNITY 
A given unit's Combat Strength is always unitary; 
it may not be divided among different combats 
either in attacking or defending. 
17.4] EFFECTS OF TERRAIN 
Units defending in certain types of terrain may 
have their Combat Strength increased. This 
increa!Oe is always a multiple of the original 
Combat Strength. Eumple: a unit with a Combat 
Strength of"S" would defend. On. Rough Terrain 
hex. at an elTtttive Strength of ·'10'·. Sec the 
Terrain Effects Chart {9.0l for a complete 
summ;lry. 
[7.5] DIVERSIONARY AlTACKS 
A unit m;ly m;lke attacks at poor odds in order 
th;lt adj;lcent attacks against other defenders may 
be made at higher odds (by alloting most of the 
attacking force to the major objective). These 
attacks arc known as "Di'·ersionary·· or ··Holding 
Attacks". 
[7.6[ EXPLANATION OF COMBAT RESULTS 
(See Exclusive Rules Folder) 
Ac = AUacker Eliminated. All Attacking units are 
eliminated \remove from the map). 
De = Defender EUmlnated. All Defending units 
are eliminated. 
Ex = EuhllllKe. All Defending units are elimi-
nated. The Attacking Player must eliminate 
Attacking unhs whose total. printed (faCf: value) 
Combat Strength at lcul equals the lotal printed 
Combat Strengths of the eliminated Defending 
units. Only uniu which participated in a particular 
attack may be so eliminated. 
AT = Attacker R"trtats. All Anacking units must 
retreat one hcx (see 7.7). 
Dr = Defender Retrt ..... All Defcnding units must 
retreat one hex. 
[7.7[ R..t..'TREATlNG AND ADVANCING 
AS A RESULT OF COMBAT 
17.71 [ When the Combat Result requires that a 
Player·s units be retreated. the O,,·oing Player 
must immediately movc those unit.!i one hex $0 that 
they are no longer in an Enemy controlled he:<. The 
Owning Player may decide the direction that each 
of his retreating units moves. Two units in the 
same hex ma)" retreat in two different directions. 
[7.71] A retreating unit may not retreat into a 
prohibited he:<. cross a prohibited hexside. or enter 
an Enemy controlle<! heK. If no hex is open to 
relreat into. the unit is eliminated. 
[7.73] A retreating unit may enter a vacant hex 
(within the restrictions of 7.72) or it may stack with 
some other Friendly unit (within the Stacking 
restrictions) so long as the unit it stacks with is not 
in an Enemy controlled hex. If there is no other 
alternative. it may displace an adjacent Friendly 
unit (see 7.81. 
17.74J If a unit is retreated into a Friendly hex 
which is sub$\':quently attacked by Artillery 
bombardment. the already retreated unit does nOI 
contribute its Combat Strength to the defen$\': (see 
7.14), but it docs suffer the result of the attack. 
17.75] Whene~er a hex is vacated as a result of 
Combat. one victorious unit which participate<! in 
that combat may ad~ance into the vacated hell. 
This advance may be madc regardless of Enemy 
Zones of Control. The option to advance must be 
exercised immediately. before any other combat 
resolution. A unit is never forced to advance. A 
unit may ne~er advance more than one heK as a 
result of combat. After advancing, units may 
neither allack nor be attacked that Pha$\': (see 
7.14). even if their advance places them next to 
Enemy units whose bauln are yet to be resol~ed, 
or who were not involved in combat. However. 
advances are u$\':ful in cuttlng 00" the retreat of 
Enemy units whose combat has not yet been 
resolved. 
[7.76[ Only one victorious unit may advance into a 
vacated hex. If two hexes arc vacated as a result of 
a singlc combat. the victorious Player may still 
advance only one unit. 
p.8] DISPLACEMENT 
[7.81] If the only one he~ a~ailable to the retreating 
unit is one which the unit could not normally move 
into because of stacking restrictions (S.3D. then 
one of the units in the hex must be displaced. The 
displaced unit is moved back by the Owning Player 
(as if it were retreating as a result of combat) and 
its position is taken by the retrealing unit. The 
displaced unit itself may not be forced into Enemy 
controlled hexn D!" other prohibited helles. One 
retreating unil displaces only one unit in a stack; 
twO retreating units displace two. 
S3 
[7.81[ 11" the displacement would cau!Oe any of the 
displaced units to be eliminated. the retreating 
unit is instead eliminated. Displaced units can 
themselves displaCf: other Friendly units in a sort 
of chain reaction of displacement. if that is the 
only permil1o:1 path of displacement open to them. 
A unit may be displaced more than once per 
Combat Pha$\':. if that is the only alternative. 
Displaced Artillery units which have nOI yet 
engaged in combat. may not lire during that 
Combat Pha$\':. Units may not displace other 
Friendly unils if Ihey have othcr pathli of retrtat 
r.pcn to them. 
[7.9[ VOLUNTARY REDUCfION 
011 COMBAT ODDS 
Prior to the resolution of any attack. the attacking 
Player may announce that he .. ·ishes to reduce the 
combat odds of that allack. He incurs no 
responsibilit)· or penalty by doing this. but he may 
1I0t change hili mind subsequent to the die roll. 
Eumple: Allack is computed 10 be a ·'5-1" attack. 
Player announces that hc desires a "3-1'· attack. 
and resolves it using that column. Players may 
wish to do this to avoid excess casualties through 
exchangcs, or to attempt to retreat Friendly units. 
[8.0J ARTILLERY 
Unlike infantry and cavalry units, Artillery units 
may participate in attacks by bombarding the 
dcfending unit. Artillery bombards a unit from lwo 
or three hexes distance. Artillery units mUll parti· 
cipatc in combat wheo adjacent to opposing units. 
In other words. artillery may participate in two 
types of allack. depending on their distance from 
the defending unit (adjacent or not). Unlike other 
units. Artillery units are never destroyed or forced 
to retreat when bombarding D unit, althoogh they 
are affected by all combat results when they are 
adjacent to the unit they arc attacking. 
PROCEDURE; 
Determine the odds of the attack in exactly the 
same fashion as any other attack. All results are 
applied in the same fashion. except that bom-
barding Artillery units (i.e .. units liring from a 
non-adjacent hu) are not affected by combat 
results. Thus. ifan '·Exchange·· were the result in 
an attack solely by bombard inK artillery. the 
dcfcnding unit would be diminated. but the 
bombarding units would not be affected. Of 
course. other units cooperating with the bom· 
barding Artillery units from an adjacent position 
(including adjacent Artillery units) woold be 
affected by combat results, and they would suffer 
the effects of an "E~change" result. 
[8.1j BOMBARDMENT ATTACKS 
18.11 ] Artillery units may attack non-adjacent 
Enemy units. up 10 three helles dinant. but they 
are never forced 10 attack an Enemy unit merely 
because it is in range. 
[8.12] Range from the bombarding Artillery unit to 
the target hex is counted by including the target 
hex. but not the bombarding unit's hex. 
(8.13] Artillery units may only attack a single 
Enemy ocupied hex when bombarding, except 
when making a combined attack .... ith infantry or 
cavalry (see 8.21. 
18.14] If two Artillery units in the same hn are 
bombarding, they mUlit both bombard the same 
hex. 
[8.151 Artillery attacking from a non-adjacent hu 
(that is. bombarding) suffer no Combal Results; 
they are never dntroyed or retreated as a result of 
their own attacks. 

[8.16] Bombarding Artillery may vQluntarily elect 
to suffer "Attacker Retreat"' if ;t is the Combat 
Result. 
18.21 COMBINED ATTACKS 
[8.21] Artillery unilS may attack alone:, in concert 
with other lxlmbarding Artillery units. or in 
concert with any Friendly units which an: adjacent 
tn Enemy units within 
ran~. adding their 
bombarding Combat Stn:ngth to the attack. 
[8.22] If. in a combined anack. Friendly unit~ au 
attacking Enemy uniu in more than onc he!, the 
Artillery units need only be within ran~ of one of 
the defending hexes 11,1 add their Combat SIn:ngth 
11,1 the attack. 
[8.231 When making II combined anack with 
bombarding Artillery units. infantry and cavalry 
units always suffer all Combat Results, though 
bombarding Artillery unilS do nOI. 
[8.31 LINE OF SIGHT 
[11.311 To delennine if an Artillery unit may 
bombard a given hex. lay a straight·edge from the 
hex of the bombarding Artillery unit to the target 
hex. This straight line is the Line of Sight . Ifany of 
Ihe hexes intervening belween the bombarding hex 
and the target hex is blocking terrain. the larget 
hex may nOI be bombarded by that Artillery unit. 
[S.31}If the Line of Sighl is congruent to a hexside 
(that is. falling uact]y between twO hexes) it is 
blocked only ;f both hues adjacent to that hexside 
arc blocking terrain. 
[S.ll[ I-Ie~es containing Forest (wilh or withoul 
Rough) and Town terrain a~ Ihe only blocking 
hnes. Rough tenain by ilself does nOI block. 
[11.34] The terrain in the target hel and in Ihe hex 
of the bombarding Artillery does not block Ihe 
Line of Sight. 
[S.15] Artillery unils lDay fire over other Units. 
Enemy andl or FriendLy. 
[11.4] ADJACENT ATTACKS 
[11.411 When in the controlLed hex of an Enemy 
unit. ArtilLery units mull participate in an attack 
against adjaccnt Enemy unit(s). When an Artillery 
unit is in an Enemy controlled hex. it is treated Like 
an infantry or cavalry unit. and may not bombard. 
[8.411 When attacking from a controlled hex, 
Artillcry units may attack as many units IS they 
are adjacent to. but may not attack non·adja~nt 
unils. 
[S.43] Artillery units au .. cking from a controlled 
hu must suffer all the Combat Results of their 
auacks. 
[8.44] Terrain does not prohibit artilLery attacks 
into adja~nt hexes. 
[8.451 An ArtilLery unit may make a bombardment 
allack when across a creek hexside from the only 
adja~nt Enemy unit. Any Enemy unit within 
range could be bombarded. even the adja~nt unit 
across the Stream helside. 
[11.51 DEFENSE 
[8.511 ArtilLery units may never add their Combat 
Strcngth to another unit's Defensive value by 
bombardment. They may only bombard during 
their own Combat Phase. 
[8.511 
When 
Artillery 
units 
are 
themselves 
attacked, Ihey suffer all Combat Results in the 
same manner as other units. even when bom-
barded by Enemy Artillery units. 
19.01 TERRAIN 
EFFECfS CHART 
(See Exclusive Rules Folder) 
[10.01 NIGHT GAME-TURNS 
The linted Game· Turns on the Turn Record Track 
3re night Game-Turns. and have a different 
Sequence of Play than day Game-Turns. in .... hich 
Ihe Combat Phase is omitted. 
[10.11 EFFECT ON COMBAT 
Ther~ is no Combat Phase during a Night 
Game-Turn. and no combat is allowed. Opposing 
adjacent units do 1'10\ engage in combat; {h~y 
simply remain in place. Artillery units may not 
bombard during Night Game·Turns. 
[10.1] EFFECT ON MOVEMENT 
Movement rt:strictions during Night Game·Turns 
art: identical 
10 Oay Game·Turn Movement 
restrictions, .... ith one addition. Units may not enter 
Enemy controlled hexes duriog a Night Game-
Turn. 1'101" may unil$ already in Encmy controlled 
hexes exit them. 
111.0J OPTIONAL RULE: 
ATTACK 
EFFECTIVENESS 
Whenever a unit r«eives an Attacker Retreat (At) 
result due 10 CQmbat. its unit marker is inverted 
(turned fa~·down). and it becomes ineffective. It 
remains ineffective until a Nighl Game-Turn 01", if 
no Night Game·Turn ensues, untillhe end of the 
game. When units are fa~·dov.·n on the map. such 
units have lost Atlack Effectiveness and may only 
defend. 
PROCEDURE: 
The backs of the die·cut counters arc. of course. 
blank. Players may wish to pencil in lightly the 
strength of their unih. This .... ill obviate having 10 
look under an Ineffective unit when it ;s attacked. 
[11.11 HOW EFFECTIVENESS IS LOST 
Attack Effectiveness is lost by attacking units only. 
when they suffer a Combat Result of Attacker 
Relreat. Units only lose Attack Effectiveness when 
they auack from an Enemy controlled hel. They 
lose it regardlns of whethcr they moved into the 
adjacent position. or the Enemy did. 
[11 .11 RESULTS OF LOSS 
Ineffeclive units may not attack. nor may they 
enter an Enemy controlled hex. until they have 
~overed their Allack Effectiveness. They may 
continue to move and defend in a nonnal manner, 
and retain a Zone of Control. 
[11.3] ENEMY ZONES OF CONTROL 
111.3l llf. at the beginning of any Friendly Combat 
Phase, a Friendly Ineffective unit is in an Enemy 
controlled heK. either all the Enemy units must be 
retreated in combat so that no Encmy Zone of 
Control is in thc Ineffective unit's hn, or the 
Friendly Ineffective unit must retreat according to 
the rules of Retre .. 1 After Com!:at (see 7.n. This 
docs not allow an Optional Adnn~ by an 
opposing unit. 
[11.321 An ineffective unit which docs not begin the 
Combat Phase in an Enemy controlLed hex is Dot 
required to retreat as outLined in 11.31. even if(due 
to advance of Enemy 
units 
after combatl 
the unit is in an Enemy controlled hex al the end of 
the Combat Phase. 
[11.4] RECOVERY OF 
ATTACK EFFECI1VENESS 
The Joss of Attack Effectiveness continues for a 
given unit until the end of any Night Game-Turn. 
At the end of any Night Game-Turn, aU units are 
immediately flipped fa~-up and resume. in the 
following Game-Turn. a full Attack Effectiveness. 
full Anack Effectiveness. 
112.01 DESIGNER'S NOTES 
In designing the Bille" Gray game §tries, 'we 
started .... ith the premise thatlhe Civil War battles 
wcre similar in scale and intcnsity to the 
Napoleonic battles of 50 years before and Ihat we 
could thus Lift intaci most of the design structure 
from the already nisting Napoleon at Waterloo 
generation of games. We fclt that the Napoleon at 
Waterloo game systcm as it stood combined the 
elements of playability and realism we '""cre 
seeking in this game series. Thus. the scale of the 
Napoleonk games (400 meter.; per hCK. 1·2 hours 
per Game·Turn) and certain salient play futures. 
such as rigid Zones of Control. retreat and Idvan~ 
after combat. and sequential Player-Turns. were 
retained in the present games. 
Yet the Civil War games could not be an enct 
copy of the Napoleonic designs. The Civil War 
batlle~ did ditTer from Napoleonic battles in 
several important respects. First. and foremost. 
the)' wcre not decisive ballles ;n the sense that 
W~terluo was. 
The fact that a decisive bailie of the Waterloo ilk 
did not happen was a lactical conscquen~ of the 
general usage of the muzzle· loading. percussion-
capped rine ..... hich had been invented and refined 
in the decades prior to the war. This ""upon was 
much more effective than the NapoLeonic flintlock 
musket; extending the firepower of the infantty in 
ran~ and reliability. The first consc:quen~ was 
that cavalry or. rathu. the traditional ma§SCd 
cavalry charge, was redul.'Cd to a baillefield ~lic. 
Whereas before a cavalry charge could usually 
break a deployed infantry line. now anything 
exctpt the most tenuous skirmish line was proof 
againM cavalry. This meant that infantry could 
deploy in lines and miKed column" and lines, 
ignoring the prelience of cavaLry as a mounted 
threat. The second consequence of the rifle was to 
reduce the cffectiveness of artillery lIS an offensive 
weapon. Napoleon had used artillery aggressively. 
massing it just beyond musket range of the 
enemy's infantry and using cannister 10 literally 
blow holes in enemy posilions which could then be 
e~ploiled by cavalry and reserves. 
We inCQrporatcd on( major innovation ;1'1 the 
combat mechanics. That is Attack Effectiveness. 
which is presented as an optional rule. II was 
originally an organic part of the game, but .... as 
appendixed in the pursuit of simplicity. Pla~rs 
who usc it will find that they have 10 deal wilh a 
nC'" and vcry 
~alistic element in their bailie 
management: That of proper and timely employ· 
ment of reserves. In the regular games. a Player 
can afford to commit his forces to broad frontal 
assaults. pUlling pressure all along the linc in 
hopes that he will get lucky with a series of I·' and 
2· 1 attacks. which could yield him a geographical 
advamage to exploit. Attack Effectiveness reduces 
the utility of this tactic. A Player who faiLs to keep 
an uncommilled fresh reserve available will lind 
himself. toward the end of a day of bailie. with 
mOSI of his army intact. but unable to anack and 
at the mercy of an opponent who has fresh troops. 
AI the same lime. we changed Ihe bombardment 
rules so that a Player CQUld no longer use 
bombardment to allow his artillery to escape the 
consequences of being adjaccnt to an enemy unit. 
We considered. fOl" a while. switching artillery 
from bombarding on attack 10 bombarding in 
defensive support (adding its $Irength 10 some 
friendly defending unit) but decided not to. since 
we felt the defending player should rely not on the 
passive defense strength of his units, but on ""ell 
conducted counterallacks 10 preserve a given line 
or position (for which bombarding artillery is 
invaluable).