Game Components
48 blue 
blue wires
“1” to “12”, 
4 of each
12 Equipment 
Equipment cards
26 Info tokens 
(including 2 
yellow ones) 
12 Validation
tokens
A game by Hisashi Hayashi, illustrated by Dom2D
Install the dial on the board 
before the first game
1 board (with a dial) 
7 markers: 4 yellow and 3 red
5 “Surprise“ boxes 
to open later
8 large Mission 
Mission cards
40 tokens
17 cards 
70 Wire tiles
8 resealable bags
5 tile stands
"="
token 
"≠"
token 
5 Character cards
11 yellow 
yellow wires
“1.1” to “11.1”
11 red 
red wires
“1.5” to “11.5”
1 set of rules
1 Bomb Busters Standee
You will need it for mission 66! 
Don’t worry about it before then ;)

Aim of the Game
Bomb Busters is a cooperative game. Each player is a bomb disposal expert and all players together form one team. The objective is to 
defuse the assigned mission’s bomb together. Beware! The bomb will explode if you cut a red
red wire or if the detonator dial reaches the end!
Setup
1 Select one of the Mission 
Mission cards. The missions get progressively more difficult. 
You are not required to play the missions in order (but it is strongly recommended!).
Just make sure you work through all of them so you fully learn how to play the game....
2 Designate a Captain (at random for the first mission, then pass the responsibility
of Captain to the left before each subsequent mission). Place the “Captain” 
character card in front of this bomb disposal expert. Everyone else should 
place a character card of their choice faceup in front of them.
3 The Captain reads the Mission
Mission card aloud and
places it, flipped over, to the bottom left of the
board so everyone can see the special rules.
FRONT: The mission’s setup instructions.
BACK: The mission‘s special rules. (Each mission
may introduce new rules not found in this rulebook.)
4 Depending on the number of bomb disposal 
experts, distribute tile stands as follows:
Players
Players
Stands for Captain
Stands for Captain
Stands for Others
Stands for Others
(visuel carte 
MISSION recto)
(A)
Changes to Setup for 2 players
Training Missions
Novice (1-3): These missions teach you the basics.
Intermediate (4-7): These missions teach you some more advanced concepts.
Expert (8): This is the final exam to pass training. If you succeed, you can open the 9-19 Mission Box.
Back of the Mission
Mission card
with special mission rules.

5 Prepare the mission’s Wire tiles:
A. Collect all 48 blue
blue wire tiles (except for training missions 1, 2 & 3). There are 4 copies of each number 1-12. 
B. Take the number of red
yellow wires shown on the Mission
Mission card by drawing them at random.
C. Look at the red
yellow tiles drawn and indicate the red
yellow values by placing the appropriate red and/or yellow markers 
in the spaces on the board, with their blank side faceup (make sure the “?” symbol is facedown).
D. Then shuffle all the Wire tiles (blue
blue + red
red + yellow
yellow) together facedown.
In some missions, the number of red and/or yellow wires is indicated as “1 out of 2”, “1 out of 3”, or “2 out of 3”: 
In this case, the wires involved are only partially known. For example, when setting up “2 out of 3 yellow 
yellow wires”:
1. Reveal 3 yellow
yellow Wire tiles.
2. Place 3 markers in matching board
slots with their “?” side faceup to indicate
that these numbers might be in play.
3. Shuffle the 3 tiles facedown, add 2 of
them facedown to the pile of blue
blue tiles,
and set the third tile aside, out of play,
without revealing it.
Thus, only 2 of the 3 yellow 
yellow wires seen
are actually in play, but all 3 possibilities are 
indicated by the “?” markers on the board.
6 Deal all wires facedown and as equally as possible among all the tile stands. Some stands may have more tiles than others.
7 Bomb disposal experts take their dealt wires and carefully place them in their tile stand. Tiles must be placed with the information 
facing the bomb disposal expert and sorted from left-to-right in ascending order. Tiles on a stand are in that bomb disposal expert’s hand.
 NOTE: When a bomb disposal expert has 2 tile stands, deal, 
place, and sort the tiles separately for each stand. Later, during 
the game, both tile stands together form the player’s hand (for 
purposes of equipment, Info tokens, specific rules, etc.).
The decimal values shown on red and yellow wires are used only for sorting in ascending order. During the game they have no value, 
and are simply “RED
RED” or “YELLOW
YELLOW”.
Setup Example:
(B)
(D)
(A)
(C )

8 On the board:
 
9 Starting with the Captain and going clockwise, each bomb disposal 
expert places an Info token of their choice on the table in front of
their stand, pointing to one of the blue wires in
their hand with the matching value.
Take as many Equipment
Equipment cards as there are bomb disposal experts and place 
them faceup over the checkmark 
, as you cannot use them yet. 
This is the only equipment available for this game.
Set the detonator 
dial to the section 
matching the
number of bomb 
disposal experts.
Place all the Info tokens and
the 12 Validation tokens here.
 
 You cannot use the 
yellow 
 during setup.
(B)
(C )
 
 Remember: 
2 tile stands = 1 hand. So be 
aware, when a bomb disposal 
expert has 2 tile stands, they 
only place 1 Info token (in front 
of the tile stand and blue wire
of their choice).
Example setup for 3 
bomb disposal experts

The Game
Starting with the Captain and going clockwise, each bomb disposal expert takes a turn. On their turn, a bomb disposal expert (called the 
“active bomb disposal expert“) must do 1 of the following 3 actions: Dual Cut action, Solo Cut action, or Reveal Your Red Wires action.
Dual Cut Action
The active bomb disposal expert must cut 2 identical wires: 1 of their own and 1 of their teammates’. They clearly point to a specific 
teammate’s wire and guess what it is, stating its value. For example “This wire is a 9”.
A If the active bomb disposal expert is correct, the action succeeds :
• Their teammate takes that wire and places it faceup 
in front of their tile stand, without changing its position. 
• Then the active bomb disposal expert takes their identical
wire (or one of them if they have several) and places it
faceup in front of their tile stand.
B But if they are wrong, the action fails 
 :
• If the wire in question is red
red, the bomb explodes, and the mission ends in failure;
• If the wire in question is blue
blue or yellow
 yellow, the detonator dial advances 1 space (the bomb explodes if the dial reaches the skull and the
mission fails), and their teammate places an Info token in front of the wire in question to show its real value. 
The Captain points to a teammate’s “9,” which just so 
happens to be a match. The dual cut action succeeds!
- The teammate places the chosen “9” wire faceup in 
front of their tile stand.
- The Captain also reveals one of their “9s” and places 
it faceup in front of their own tile stand.
Is this a 12?
No, it’s an 11.
The teammate points to the Captain’s “11,” asking if it’s 
a 12, but that’s incorrect, so the dual cut action fails! 
- The Captain places an Info token matching the 
chosen wire’s true value and places it on the table 
in front of their tile stand so it is pointing to the 
matching wire.
- The detonator dial advances 1 space.
 Note: The active bomb disposal expert does not show where in their own hand the tile they had wanted to cut is.

Solo Cut Action
If the last of identical wires still in the game appear only in the active bomb disposal expert’s hand, then they can cut those identical wires in 
pairs (either 2 or 4). This can be done on their own, without involving another bomb disposal expert.
• If they are lucky enough to have a full set of 4, they can cut all 4 wires at once.
• If a pair of wires of a given value have already been cut, they can cut
the remaining 2 matching wires in their hand. 
These cut wires are placed faceup on the table in front of the tile stand.
Reveal Your Red Wires Action
This action can occur only if the active bomb disposal expert’s
remaining uncut wires are all RED
RED. They reveal them, placing
them faceup on the table in front of their tile stand.
THE YELLOW WIRES
Yellow
Yellow wires are cut the same way as blue
blue wires (Dual or Solo Cut), but the numeric value is used only when sorting the tiles on the 
stand in ascending order during setup. During the game, all yellow
yellow wires are considered to have the same value: "YELLOW
YELLOW". 
To cut a yellow
yellow wire, the active bomb disposal expert must have one in their hand, point to a teammate’s wire, and say “This wire is 
yellow.” If they are correct, the 2 wires are cut. Otherwise if incorrect, just as with blue
blue wires, an Info token that reveals the actual 
value of the identified wire is placed, and the detonator dial advances 1 space.
• If a yellow
yellow wire is pointed at incorrectly, a yellow
yellow Info token is used, and the detonator dial advances 1 space.
• A Solo Cut action using yellow 
yellow wires can occur only with a bomb disposal expert who has all the remaining yellow
yellow wires in their hand.
VALIDATION TOKENS
As soon as all 4 wires of the same value have been cut, place 1 
Validation token on the matching number on the board. This visual 
reminder can save time and maybe even your life!
THE EQUIPMENT CARDS
• A piece of equipment becomes useable as soon as 2 wires of the value shown in the top-left corner 
of the card have been cut. Slide the equipment
equipment card up in its space to reveal the green checkmark,
indicating that this effect is now useable.
• All equipment
equipment can be used only once. To show that it has been used, flip it facedown.
• The text on each card describes when the equipment
equipment can be used. Most can be used at any time by anyone,
even not during their turn. A bomb disposal expert can use several equipment
equipment cards in a row.
NOTE: The X or Y ray equipment can be combined with the Double Detector, Triple Detector, or Super Detector
(to indicate 2 values along with several wires!)
A pair of 9 wires is cut, equipment 
9 becomes available.
In this example, two "9s" were cut previously.
The active bomb disposal expert carries out a Solo 
cut action: They cut the two remaining "9s" which 
are in their hand (in this case, on two tile stands).

End of the Game
The mission ends in success when all bomb disposal experts have empty tile stands!
If the mission ends in failure (red
red wire cut or detonator dial advances to the 
 space),
change which player is the Captain and restart the mission!
After you complete mission 8—congratulations, you can now open the first “Surprise“ box, 
(Missions 9-19). Feel free to use the table on the back of the box to track your progress.
THE CHARACTER CARDS 
Each bomb disposal expert can use the personal equipment on their character card once per mission. To show 
that it has been used, flip it facedown.
Double Detector: During a Dual Cut action, the active bomb disposal expert states a value and points to 2 wires 
in a teammate’s stand (instead of only 1).
• If either of these 2 wires matches the stated value, the action succeeds. 
- If both wires are named correctly, the teammate does not share any details and simply chooses which of the 2 chosen wires to cut.
• If neither of the 2 wires matches the stated value, the action fails. 
- The detonator dial advances 1 space, and the teammate places 1 Info token on the table in front of 1 of the 2 chosen wires (their choice).
- If only 1 of the 2 chosen wires is red
red, the bomb does not explode. The teammate does not share any details and simply places an Info 
token in front of the “not red” wire.
 
 Double detector success
 Is either of 
these wires 
a 2?
 Double detector failure
Is either of 
these wires 
a 3?
Number of 
wins and 
losses
No More Wires: When a bomb disposal expert has no wires left in hand and their tile stand is empty, the mission just carries on without them. Simply skip this bomb 
disposal expert’s turn and continue taking turns in clockwise order with the other bomb disposal experts who still have wires in their hands.
Communication: To facilitate the gameplay experience, communication is intentionally very limited.
• It is forbidden to talk about the wires in one’s hand, to imply their value, to recall information from previous turns, to share your guesses and assumptions aloud.
• It is permitted at any time to discuss general tactics, the use of equipment, to recall special rules, to remind a teammate to use their Double Detector or other equipment.
Clarifications

QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE
Setup
 Everyone takes 1 character card.
 Shuffle the 48 blue
 blue wires with the red
red/yellow
yellow wires as indicated by mission setup instructions. 
Then distribute all wires facedown among tile stands as equally as possible. 
 With 2 bomb disposal experts, each bomb disposal expert will use 2 tile stands. 
With 3 bomb disposal experts, only the Captain uses 2 tile stands.
 The number of equipment
equipment cards and the detonator dial’s starting space will vary depending on the number of 
bomb disposal experts.
 Each bomb disposal expert places 1 Info token in front of their stand (but not a yellow one during setup).
On Your Turn
 On your turn, do 1 of these actions:
• Dual Cut:
Choose a value on a tile in your hand, then point at a teammate’s tile and ask them if that tile
is the value you chose (hope for a match!).
 Matching values: reveal both wires and place in front of their respective tile stands.
 Not matching values: the detonator dial advances and, if it hasn’t reached the 
, 
an Info token of the teammate’s chosen wire’s true value is placed in front of it.
 Red wire: the bomb explodes!
• Solo Cut:
Reveal the 2 or 4 remaining wires of the same value and place them in front of your tile stand.
• Reveal Your Red Wires:
If all your wires are red
red, reveal them.
End of the Game
 Win: All the tile stands are empty!
 Loss: The bomb exploded (red
red wire cut or detonator dial reached the 
 space!)
REMEMBER:
• Each character has 1 personal equipment that can be used once per game.
• Equipment becomes useable the first time 2 wires of the value shown on the card have been cut. 
• All the yellow 
yellow wires are considered to have the same value: “yellow
yellow”.
• All the red
red wires are considered to have the same value: “red
red”.
• There are 4 copies of each blue
blue wire from 1 to 12. After all 4 wires of the same value have been cut, place a 
Validation 
 token on the board as a reminder.
• Double Stands: A bomb disposal expert with 2 tile stands treats them both as a single hand.
• On some mission cards you will find a QR code that leads to an audio file. If you are unable to scan QR codes, 
you can find the file at: www.pegasusna.com/bombbusters-en
Game Design: Hisashi Hayashi
Illustrations: Dom2D
English Editorial: Steven Kimball
Pegasus Spiele North America, 
2955 Lone Oak Drive, Ste 180, Eagan, MN, 55121, 
with permission from Cocktail Games.
© 2024 Cocktail Games (www.cocktailgames.com). 
Audio credits: 
www.pegasusna.com/bombbusters-audiocredits-en
© of the US edition 2024 Pegasus Spiele GmbH. 
v1.0 All rights reserved. Reprint or publication of the 
instructions, the game material or the illustrations is only 
permitted with prior permission.