“Oi Rakskag! I betcha I can plant wun right ona
bridge afore you do!”
Comm intercept from Ork Fighta-Bommer pilots.
The Game
In Bommerz Over Da Sulphur River players take on
the role of either the Imperial forces attempting to
defend the bridges or the Ork Fighta-Bommerz
trying to blow them up. All you need to play are the
contents of this PDF a few Citadel Miniatures and a
flat surface to play on such as a table or a bit of
floor where you’re not going to be disturbed. 
What You Get
As well as these rules and eight dice, Bommerz
over da Sulphur River includes:
• 3 board sections
• 12 defence counters
• 6 damage markers.
These clip onto the stands of the Fighta-Bommerz
and Interceptors when they’ve been damaged by
flak or enemy interceptors, as explained later.
YOU WILL NEED 4 Ork Fighta-Bommer and 2
Imperial Thunderbolt Interceptor Citadel models.
Getting Started
First, 
assemble 
Fighta-Bommer 
and
Thunderbolt Interceptor
models with superglue
as shown on the right.
The example shown is
an Imperial Thunderbolt
Interceptor, but both
types 
of 
craft 
are
assembled in the same
way.
While you’re waiting for the models to dry, read
through the game rules just to get a rough idea of
what’s going on. Then punch out the defence
counters and set up the game. Don’t worry too
much about getting the rules exactly right in your
first game, go back and look again at anything
you’re unsure about afterwards – it’s far more
important to get in there and move some pieces
about first!
BOMMERZ
over da Sulphur River
The Imperial reconquest of Rynn’s World was not going well. The 15th Imperial Army under
Commissar-General Mordrid Van Horcic had finally broken through the Hellblade mountains after
months of fighting against the alien Ork invaders. The battle now spilled into the thousand mile-long
Desolation Valley. The Sulphur River that divided Desolation Valley into two halves was impassable
except at a few bridges that remained across it. After more bloody fighting, Imperial Space Marines
captured the bridges so that the Imperial forces could continue their attack. Within hours, crude Ork
Fighta-Bommerz were hurtling up the valley to try and bomb the vital bridges into oblivion.
ASSEMBLY
3D6 Flak
™

Set up
The game can be played by up to five players, or by as
few as one. For games with two or more players, either
decide who will be the Imperial defender or each roll a
D6. The player with the highest
score is the Imperial player.
1-player: Shuffle the defence
counters face down and place
one on each of the bridges and
one on each of the spaces
marked with an Imperial eagle.
Set up the four Bommerz in the
starting spaces.
2-players:
One 
player
commands 
Imperial
defenders, the other is the Ork
player. The Imperial player
shuffles 
defence
counters face down and
picks six at random. He
can examine them and
then must place two on
each board, in any space
(no more than one per
space). The Ork player
gets four Fighta-Bommerz
in the starting spaces.
3-players: As above but
with two Ork players with
two Bommerz each.
4-players:
Three 
Ork
players with one Fighta-Bommer each, the first one
destroyed gets the spare Fighta-Bommer OR treat as
solo game and the players get 1 Fighta-Bommer each.
5-players: Four Ork players, one Fighta-Bommer each.
BOMMER START
SOLO PLAY
Defence Counters
INTERCEPTOR: “Diving out of the sun, guns
chattering in raucous challenge, an Imperial
Thunderbolt fighter bars the way.”
Whenever a Fighta-Bommer and a
Thunderbolt Interceptor occupy the
same space they must fight a
Dogfight by rolling a D6 each (re-
roll ties). The player scoring
highest is the winner and may
drive off the loser one space in any
direction. If the winner beats the loser by 3 or
more the loser also suffers a point of damage.
An Interceptor can move 1-6 spaces in the
Imperial player’s move.
LASER: “A giant defence laser attempts to lock
on and obliterate the Fighta-Bommerz as they
snake past.”
The laser may only attack a
Fighta-Bommer if it is face up
when the Fighta-Bommer enters
the space it is in. If it is, the Fighta-
Bommer must Dodge by rolling a
D6 and equalling or beating its
Speed. Failure brings instant destruction! Either
way the laser flips face down again once it has
fired, and the Fighta-Bommer may keep
moving if it survives. The
laser may not move.
FLAK: “Deadly tracer shells and explosions rake
the skies.”
Any Fighta-Bommerz which
enter a space containing Flak
can be attacked. Roll the
number of D6 indicated on the
counter; each dice which equals
or beats the Fighta-Bommer’s
Speed scores a hit.
1 Hit: Fighta-Bommer Driven Off one
space in a direction decided by the
Imperium player. Its move ends.
2 Hits: Fighta-Bommer is Driven Off as
above and suffers 1 point of damage.
3 Hits: Fighta-Bommer is shot down.
Flak counters (not the flak which defends each
bridge) can move one space in the Imperial
player’s move. If a flak defence counter is
positioned on a bridge, roll all the flak dice
together when it fires.
ROCK SPIRES: “Rock spires loom out of the mist
threatening to claw the hurtling Fighta-
Bommerz out of the sky.”
Any 
or
Thunderbolt Interceptors which
move into a space containing
Rock Spires must Dodge by
rolling a D6 and equalling or
beating their Speed. If they
fail they suffer 1 point of damage,
otherwise they escape unscathed. In either
case they can continue moving. Rock Spires
may not move.

The game is played out in a series of turns. Each turn is
split into the Ork player’s move and the Imperial player’s
move, all the Orks completing their entire move before
the Imperials fight back. The Orks always go first.
Ork Player’s Move
Each Fighta-Bommer’s controlling player rolls two D6
and picks one for their Speed (put a green dice next to
the base as a reminder). A Fighta-Bommer’s speed
represents the maximum number of spaces it can move
that turn, though it can move less if desired. Fighta-
Bommerz are subject to the following rules.
A Fighta-Bommer can only move from space to space
along the links indicated on the map.
If a Fighta-Bommer
enters a space
containing a
defence counter,
flip the counter
over and work out
its effects as
detailed below.
A Fighta-Bommer
can’t enter a space
it has just left
unless it is Driven
Off by Flak or a
Dogfight (see
later). As a useful
reminder point the
tail of the craft
towards the space
it just came from.
Being driven back
ends a Fighta-
Bommer’s move,
even if it still has
spaces left. 
Only one Fighta-
Bommer or
Thunderbolt
Interceptor can end
its move in any
given space, but a
Fighta-Bommer can pass through a space occupied by
another Fighta-Bommer as it moves. Because of this it
sometimes matters which Fighta-Bommer
moves first – in this case the fastest
Fighta-Bommer moves first, then the next
fastest and so on. 
If a Fighta-Bommer enters a space
containing a Bridge or a Flak unit it may
make a Bombing Run before moving on.
A Fighta-Bommer may make several
bombing runs in its turn if it gets the
chance.
Imperial Forces
The Imperial forces are represented by a set of defence
counters and the bridges on the board itself. See the box
on the facing page for details of the defence counters.
BRIDGES: Include a 1D6 Flak battery (see the defence
counter box). The Fighta-Bommerz need to hit the
bridges in order to win the game.
Imperial Player’s Move
The Imperial player can flip over one defence counter
and then move any Interceptor and Flak counters which
are face up. Remember that a laser will only attack a
Fighta-Bommer if it is already face up, so it may be a
good idea to activate a laser. In a solo game the Imperial
side will only move Interceptors.
FLAK MOVES: In solo games, flak is static. In multi-player
games it may move up to one space. Flak may not move
into a space already occupied by a Fighta-Bommer.
INTERCEPTORS: Roll two D6 and pick one, moving in the
same way as Fighta-Bommerz. In a solo game the
Interceptors will always move as fast as possible towards
the nearest Fighta-Bommerz and fight a dogfight with
them if they can reach.
Events
As the Fighta-Bommerz hurtle up Desolation Valley lots
of different events can occur. This a summary of them.
DOGFIGHT: Air to air dogfights occur whenever an
Interceptor and a Fighta-Bommer are in the same space.
They are resolved by the players rolling a D6 each (re-
roll ties). The player scoring highest is the winner and the
loser is driven off one space in a direction chosen by the
winner. If the winner beats the loser by 3 or more the
loser also suffers a point of damage. The model which
moved into the space can carry on moving if it wins, but
otherwise its move ends because it has been driven off.
DODGE: Rocks and lasers force models to dodge to get
past. In order to dodge a player must roll equal to or
higher than the model’s speed on a D6. If they fail they
suffer the consequences. A model can keep moving
whether they make a dodge or not, if they are still alive…
DRIVEN OFF: Flak and dogfights can cause a craft to be
driven off into an adjacent space, picked by the player
who drove it off (away from the bridges for Orks in a solo
game). Place the model so its tail points to the space it
just came from. Being driven off ends a model’s move.
The Bommer zooms in from the
right and a dogfight ensues…
…instead he drives the Ork back to where he started.
the Imperial
player wins and
could choose to
drive the Ork off
to here.…
The Turn

DAMAGE:
and Interceptors can take 2
points of damage each.
The 1st point of damage
causes the craft to suffer -1 to
all dice rolls (movement,
dodges, dogfights, bombing).
The 2nd point of damage
destroys the craft.
BOMBING RUNS: If a Fighta-
Bommer survives all of the
defences in a space it can
make a bombing run. A Fighta-Bommer which makes a
run rolls two D6, a hit is scored for each dice which
equals or beats the Fighta-Bommer’s speed.
Flak is destroyed by 1 hit. Bridges are destroyed by a
total of 4 hits (use a dice to keep track of the number of
hits inflicted on a bridge).
The Second Wave 
“They’re coming in again! We can’t stop them, send more
Interceptors 
or 
we’ll 
b…” 
<<<<<communication
ends>>>>>”
Comm signal from Hydra Flak battery 280.
Once the last of the Fighta-Bommerz has either crashed
and burned or left the end of the map, the Ork player(s)
can decide to bring on another wave of four more Fighta-
Bommerz. Set them up in the starting spaces as before.
In a multi-player game the Imperial player shuffles the
remaining defence counters face down (including any
which have been destroyed) and draws one new counter
which he can place on any board. In a solo game put
replacement counters on any of the Imperial starting
spaces which are empty. Play then proceeds as before.
Winnin’ and Losin’
Once the last Fighta-Bommer has been destroyed or left
the board, the game is over and all that remains is to
work out who’s won. Simply look up what happened to
the bridges in relation to how many waves of Fighta-
Bommerz the Orks used, on the chart below. If more than
one Ork player participated, the person who scored the
most hits on bridges is the winner (assuming the Orks
gained a victory at all).
Ork Minor Victory
The 
Orks 
succeed 
in
destroying the bridges, but
they are too severely
mauled to take advantage
of the fact by attacking the
Imperial forces with full
strength.
Ork Major Victory!
The 
deadly 
Fighta-
Bommerz of the Orks
become 
bane 
of
Imperial forces on Rynn’s
world by blasting convoys,
encampments 
and
hospitals to pieces.
Ork Minor Victory
The Imperial commander
is 
executed 
for 
his
miserable incompetence in
defending the vital bridges. 
Imperial Minor victory
The Imperial commander
is grudgingly commended
for his efforts in the face of
Orks’
(allegedly)
overwhelming numbers. 
Imperial Major victory!
The Ork Bommer-leader is
reduced to the status of
Gretchin slave and sent on
next 
mine-clearing
expedition. 
Imperial Minor victory
The surviving Ork pilots
are roundly jeered by their
fellows for their lack of
guts. The brave Imperial
commander gets a medal!
BRIDGES DAMAGED
1 BRIDGE DESTROYED
2 BRIDGES DESTROYED
1 wave of
2 waves of
Games Workshop and the Games Workshop logo are
registered trademarks of Games Workshop Limited.
Bommerz over da Sulphur River is a trademark of Games Workshop Limited.
© Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2005. All rights reserved.
603110990010
UK Bommerz Rule Sheet
BRIDGE
Designer’s Notes
Well there you have it. Bommerz is a game I wanted to keep dead
simple so that it would be easy to pick up and play, but have a few
surprises in it here and there. Originally I had all sorts of ideas for
game variants, but in the end I thought it would be a lot better to let
you make up your own instead of hogging all the fun. What’s that?
Don’t know what I mean? Oh things like ‘rolling’ the game boards
so that once everyone’s moved off board 1 you move it up to butt
onto board 3 so that the flight up the valley continued as long as
there were Fighta-Bommerz alive. Or introducing different kinds of
Fighta so some were fast but fragile (+1 on move rolls, but get
damaged if beaten by two in a dogfight) or well armoured and slow
(can take 2 damage points but get -1 on move rolls) and so on.
Don’t think that the rules are some kind of intricate machine that
you might break if you change anything, it may make the game
harder for one side or the other but that’s half the fun, isn’t it? 
Have fun,
XX Andy C

3D6 Flak
© 1998 and 2005 Copyright Games Workshop Ltd. All rights reserved.
The contents of this PDF remain the exclusive copyright of Games Workshop Ltd. 
Terms and Conditions
The Double-Headed/Imperial Eagle device, the Games Workshop logo, Games Workshop, Warhammer, White Dwarf, and all associated marks, names, characters,
illustrations and images from the Warhammer world are either ¨, TM and/or © Games Workshop Ltd 2000-2005, variably registered in the UK and other countries around the
world. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) Games Workshop 2005. The text, rules, diagrams, illustrations and all other materials contained within the attached PDF file (henceforth "the File") are the
exclusive copyrighted property of Games Workshop Limited. All rights reserved.
Terms of Use Agreement
1. In consideration of being able to access and/or download a copy of the File, you must agree to accept and abide by the following terms and conditions.
2. The File may not be reproduced, sold, transferred, or modified.
3. A single copy may be downloaded and stored temporarily on a single PC for personal, non-commercial, educational or research use and reference. Additional copies,
whether electronic or otherwise, may not be made or distributed without the advance, written permission of Games Workshop Limited. You may, however, provide any person
with the URL of the Games Workshop Limited Web Site or a hyperlink to the pertinent portions of said Site (Deeplinking or bandwidth theft excepted)
4. Games Workshop adopts anti-virus policies and best practice but in no way accepts any liability for, and specifically excludes against, any damage whatsoever and
howsoever caused by any virus or similar program transmitted by the File. Any download or use of the File is entirely at the risk of the user.
5. This Agreement and the obligations of the parties shall be governed by the laws of England.
6. This Agreement may be modified at any time by Games Workshop Limited and such new or modified terms and conditions as it may, in its sole discretion, impose shall take
effect upon such date as Games Workshop Limited indicates.
7. By downloading the file, you are accepting and agreeing to be bound by these terms and conditions.
For PDF version: Simply print off board sections
and counters on a high quality colour printer. Cut
out counters and board sections and stick to thick
card. 
You will need 2 Thunderbolt Interceptor models
and 4 Ork Fighta-Bommer models. These can be
purchased from our Online store.