1. Quick Start .............................................................................. 2
2. Game Equipment .................................................................... 2
3. Introduction to Play ................................................................2
4. Playing Pieces ..........................................................................2
5. The Game Board .....................................................................2
6. Setting up the Game................................................................ 3
7. Sequence of Play ...................................................................... 4
8. Movement ................................................................................ 4
9. Maneuver Attacks ...................................................................6
10. Artillery Bombardment ........................................................6
11. Assaults ...................................................................................7
12. Retreats ..................................................................................9
13. Demoralization ....................................................................10
14. Winning the Game ..............................................................10
Table of Contents
Rules of Play
version: 2006.04.09 - text changes from the original printed rules are in red.

2 Bonaparte at Marengo
1. Quick Start
One way to learn the game is by reading the 
rules straight through from cover to cover and 
then playing it. This is not, however, the only 
way. A different approach is to mix reading and 
playing. The following is a suggested way to 
mix them:
(1) Read sections 2 through 3. These intro-
duce the game.
(2) Read sections 4 and 5. These explain the 
playing pieces and game board. The pieces are 
simple, but the game board is not and it is help-
ful to look at it while reading about it.
(3) Set up the game by following the steps 
in section 6.
(4) Play the ﬁrst two turns for each side, 
reading sections 7 and 8 – on the sequence of 
play and movement – while doing so. Neither 
side should attempt to attack on these two turns 
(this is just for ease of learning: it is not a rule).
(5) Play the third and subsequent turns for 
each side. From this point on, either side may 
attack. On making a maneuver attack, read sec-
tion 9. On making a bombardment attack, read 
section 10. On making an assault, read section 
11. On making a retreat, read section 12.
(6) When the ﬁrst losses are inﬂicted, read 
sections 13 and 14 on morale and victory condi-
tions.
(7) Try to keep the game going until all the 
rules have been read. After that players should 
feel free to start over or continue the game, 
whichever they prefer.
2. Game Equipment
The game equipment consists of:
• 80 wooden playing pieces. These repre-
sent the armies that fought at the battle 
of Marengo. Color identiﬁes them as 
French or Austrian, and symbols on 
them identify their type and strength.
• One 22" x 30" game board. The game 
board is a map of the Marengo battle-
ﬁeld, with various play aids along the 
edges. Symbols on the map determine 
how pieces may move and ﬁght.
• Three markers for record-keeping.
• Two copies of the twelve-page rules 
booklet.
3. Introduction to Play
Bonaparte at Marengo is a two player game. 
One player controls the French pieces and the 
other controls the Austrian pieces. In the game, 
each player attempts to defeat the other by elim-
inating his pieces and controlling territory.
The game is played as a series of 16 rounds, 
each representing an hour of the day of the bat-
tle: June 14, 1800. In each round, the two play-
ers take turns moving their pieces and attacking 
those of their opponent.
At the start, the map is controlled by the 
French player, but his forces are scattered; some 
are on the map at start but others enter later. The 
Austrian army is concentrated, but must enter 
the map from an entry point on the west edge, 
and attempt to destroy the French pieces and 
drive east to take control of the map.
Because many of their pieces are in play at 
the start, the French are stronger at the begin-
ning. However, the Austrian pieces will en-
ter rapidly, and by the middle of the game the 
strength advantage will have shifted to them. 
Towards the end of the game, the last French 
reinforcements will arrive and may, depending 
on relative losses, give them back the advantage 
over the Austrians.
4. Playing Pieces
The playing pieces represent the French and 
Austrian armies at the battle. They are wooden 
blocks, 1½" x ¼" x ¼" in size. The pieces that 
represent the French army are blue. The pieces 
that represent the Austrian army are red. Some 
example pieces are shown below:
One side of each piece has symbols to indi-
cate its type and strength. That side is called the 
piece’s face.
 There are three types of symbols:
for infantry pieces
for cavalry pieces
for artillery pieces
The number of symbols on a piece indicates 
its strength: one symbol for each strength point. 
Of the three example pieces above, the top piece 
is a three-strength infantry piece, the middle 
piece is a two-strength cavalry piece, and the 
bottom piece is a one-strength artillery piece.
Usually, only the player who owns a piece 
is entitled to see its face. This normal state is 
called face-down. (Note: this is not necessarily 
literally face down – players who sit on oppo-
site sides of the board will usually prefer to keep 
their pieces’ faces towards themselves, which is 
convenient and sufﬁces to hide them from their 
opponent.) 
In some situations, the opposing player has a 
right to see the face side, and in those situations 
the face side is turned towards the ceiling. This 
is called face-up.
At the start of his turn, a player is permit-
ted to do an out of sight “shufﬂe” of his pieces 
which are together in the same place on the map; 
this allows each player a way to restore secrecy 
for any pieces that earlier had been face-up.
For the mutual convenience of both players 
in keeping the faces of their pieces hidden, here 
are some courtesy suggestions:
• If a player needs to leave his seat or 
change his position so that he would be 
able to see the faces of his opponent’s 
pieces, he should give his opponent no-
tice beforehand so that his opponent can 
hide the faces of his pieces by turning 
them literally “face-down”. 
• A player should refrain from handling 
the pieces of his opponent.
• A player should not handle pieces from 
different places at the same time. This is 
to avoid the suspicion that pieces might 
have been secretly swapped in the pro-
cess.
When a piece has to be reduced in strength 
as a result of an attack, it is removed and another 
piece of the same type – but a lower strength – is 
put in its place. For this reason, in addition to 
full-strength pieces, the game also includes low-
strength replacement pieces. As a convenience, 
a few spare full-strength pieces are provided as 
well. Because of this, don’t be alarmed if after 
setting up the game, pieces are left over; there 
are supposed to be pieces left over.
A full-strength infantry piece represents 
about 1600 men and any battalion guns attached 
to them. A full-strength cavalry piece represents 
about 1000 troopers. A full-strength artillery 
piece represents about 40 guns and their crews.
5. The Game Board
Most of the game board consists of a map 
of the battleﬁeld. Some space on the edges is 
devoted to play aids.
The map portion of the game board is di-
vided into polygons to regulate movement and 
combat. These polygons are called locales. The 
faces of the polygons are called approaches.
An example of a locale with three approach-
es is shown below:
The symbols used that deﬁne locales are as fol-
lows:
sections 1-5 • quick start, game equipment, introduction to play, playing pieces, game board

is an approach. Approaches 
can be either narrow (as wide 
as one piece) or wide (as wide 
as two pieces). Printed on each 
approach are various symbols 
showing the effects of terrain 
on movement and attacks into 
that approach.
is an infantry attack penalty. For each 
of these in an approach, infantry at-
tacks against pieces defending the ap-
proach are reduced in strength by one.
is an cavalry attack penalty. For each 
of these in an approach, cavalry attacks 
against pieces defending the approach 
are reduced in strength by one.
is an artillery attack penalty. For each 
of these in an approach, artillery at-
tacks against pieces defending the ap-
proach are reduced in strength by one.
is an impassable approach. Pieces can-
not move in either direction across an 
approach with this symbol.
is a cavalry-obstructing approach. 
Cavalry is restricted in attack or de-
fense of an approach with this symbol.
is the capacity of the locale. This the 
maximum number of pieces the locale 
can hold (in this case, four).
The example locale above has three approaches 
and a capacity limit of four pieces. The top ap-
proach has an infantry attack penalty of one, is 
cavalry-obstructing, and has an artillery attack 
penalty of one. The left approach is impassable. 
The right approach has an infantry attack pen-
alty of one and a cavalry attack penalty of one.
In addition to the symbols representing ter-
rain effects, a few special symbols are present in 
some locales. These are as follows:
indicates that French pieces are 
in this locale at the start of the 
game. The number of symbols 
indicates the number of French 
pieces that start in that locale 
(see section 6 for details).
indicates that the locale is a 
game objective. There are 
three colors of stars: red, green, 
and blue (see section 14 for de-
tails).
Locales deﬁne the positions of pieces. A 
piece that is in play can be in one and only one 
locale at any one time – a piece may not straddle 
locales.
Within a locale, pieces can be either in the 
middle of the locale, which is referred to as be-
ing in reserve, or they can be across one of the 
approaches, which is referred to as blocking 
that approach.
An example of how pieces can be positioned 
in a locale is shown below:
(Pieces are face-up for illustration only.
In the example above, the infantry and the 
cavalry pieces are blocking the top approach 
into the locale, while the artillery piece is in re-
serve in the center. For clarity, pieces blocking 
approaches should be oriented the same way as 
the approach. Pieces in reserve may be oriented 
any way the player owning the piece desires (the 
orientation of reserve pieces is strictly a matter 
of convenience – it has no effect on play).
Except on the edges of the map and around 
areas of impassable terrain, approaches are al-
ways found in opposing pairs, as shown in the 
example below:
Opposing pairs of approaches are the boundar-
ies between adjacent locales. It is only through 
pairs of opposing approaches that pieces can 
move or attack between locales. Locales on ei-
ther side of an approach pair are referred to ad-
jacent locales, and for each approach in the pair 
the other approach is referred to as the opposite 
approach. Similarly, the locale containing the 
opposite approach is referred to as the opposite 
locale. It is well worth noting in this context that 
the combat penalties for approaches in opposing 
pairs can be different from each other: in the ex-
ample above, cavalry attacking from the upper 
approach to the lower would do so at a strength 
penalty of one, but cavalry attacking from the 
lower approach to the upper would not be under 
any strength penalty.
Some locales are connected by roads. Roads 
are depicted on the map as thin red or brown 
lines. Red lines denote primary roads. Brown 
lines denote secondary roads. Roads affect the 
movement of pieces: pieces can be moved far-
ther in a turn if they are moving along a road. 
Additionally, pieces moving along primary roads 
are exempted from the command limit (see sec-
tion 8 for details). An example of a locale with a 
road passing through it is shown below:
In the above example, pieces could enter or 
leave the locale by road through either the left 
or bottom approaches, but not by the right ap-
proach because the road does not cross that ap-
There are other markings on the map show-
ing hills, woods, marshes, rivers, streams, sunk-
en roads and towns. These are cosmetic and do 
not affect play. (The effects of the depicted ter-
rain are incorporated into the sizes and shapes of 
the locales and the terrain penalties on the locale 
approaches).
On the edges of the game board are the fol-
lowing play aids:
• Time Track. This is for keeping track of 
the current round.
• Morale Track. This aid is for keeping 
track of morale – see the demoralization 
rules (section 13) for details.
• French “At Start” Display. This shows 
the French pieces that are deployed on 
the map at the start of the game.
• Reinforcement Displays. These show 
Austrian and French pieces that enter 
the game as reinforcements, and show 
where and when they enter. There are 
four such displays: one Austrian and 
three French.
Note: Players accustomed to traditional war 
games may be surprised by the absence of dice, 
combat results tables or terrain effects tables. 
Combat is resolved by a comparison of strength, 
and terrain effects are designed into the map it-
self.
6. Setting up the Game
To set up the game, players should do the 
following:
(1) Put a marker on the 6:00 AM space on 
the Time Track.
(2) On the Morale Track, put down two 
markers for tracking the morale levels of the two 
armies. The starting locations for those markers 
are printed on the track itself.
(3) The players should get out the game 
pieces and sort them into the following groups 
(pieces should be face-up while this is done):
• A group for the pieces in the French “At 
Start” Display.
sections 5,6 • game board, setting up the game

4 Bonaparte at Marengo
• Four groups for the four Reinforcement 
Entry Displays
• Replacement pieces for handling losses.
(4) The French pieces from the “At Start” 
Display should be put in a box and gently shaken 
by the Austrian player, who does not look into the 
box. Then, for each locale that contains French 
pieces at the start of the game, the French player 
does a blind draw for the number of pieces that 
are to start in that locale. The French player may 
not look into the box as he draws pieces, but he 
can look at them as he puts them down so that 
he can orient them face-down.
(5) For Reinforcement Displays, the player 
who owns the pieces in each display turns them 
face-down. He may shufﬂe them in order to 
conceal which pieces are which.
(6) In the historical battle, the Austrian at-
tack surprised the French. To reﬂect this, French 
pieces on the map at start cannot move (see sec-
tion 8) until activated. A French piece can be 
activated in either of the following ways:
• An adjacent locale is enemy-occupied at 
the start of the French player’s turn.
• The French player selects it for activa-
tion. The French player may select one 
piece at the start of his ﬁrst turn. At the 
start of each subsequent turn, he may 
select two more pieces if: (1) a French 
set-up locale was ever enemy-occupied 
(whether it still is it or not), or (2) it is 
11:00 AM or later.
Once activated, a French piece stays activated 
from that point on. French reinforcements do 
not need to be activated; they can move normal-
ly when they enter play. A piece can block or re-
treat from maneuver attacks (see sections 9 and 
10) before being activated. The French player 
should not shufﬂe activated and non-activated 
pieces. A suggested way for the French player 
to keep track of which pieces are inactive is to 
keep the inactive pieces literally “face-down”.
7. Sequence of Play
The game is played as a series of 16 
rounds.
A round is divided into two turns. In each 
round, the ﬁrst turn is the Austrian player’s turn, 
and the second turn is the French player’s turn.
The Austrian player’s turn consists of the 
following steps:
(1) The Austrian player resolves artillery 
bombardments declared in his previ-
ous turn. See section 10.
(2) The Austrian player conducts infantry 
and cavalry assaults. See section 11.
(3) The Austrian player conducts move-
ment. See section 8.
(4) The Austrian player declares any artil-
lery bombardments he wants to con-
duct in his next turn. See section 10.
The French player’s turn is structured the 
same as the Austrian turn, except with the roles 
of the two players reversed.
At the end of every round, the marker on the 
Time Track is advanced one space. This contin-
ues until the last round, after which victory is 
determined, as per section 14.
8. Movement
In a player’s turn, he may move his pieces 
that are on the map and may bring onto the map 
any eligible reinforcement pieces. Once on, 
pieces may not move off the map again.
In general, each piece can either move with-
in a locale (from reserve to blocking or from 
blocking to reserve), or to an adjacent locale. 
The only way a piece can move to a non-adja-
cent locale in a single turn is by road. 
Pieces are moved in groups. A group consists 
of one or more pieces that start in the same place 
and end in the same place and are moved at the 
same time. Pieces are considered to be in the 
same place if they are in the same locale, and ei-
ther in reserve together or blocking the same ap-
proach together. Note: a piece moving by road is 
always in a group by itself – even if other pieces 
are moving by road to and from the same place, 
they still must be moved separately.
A player is limited to moving no more than 
three groups and/or conducting three assaults 
(see section 11) per turn. This limit is called the 
command limit. This is a combined limit for 
both – i.e. a player does not have one limit for 
groups moved and a second limit for assaults.
Pieces blocking enemy maneuver attacks 
(see section 9), conducting artillery attacks (see 
section 10), and retreating (see section 12) do 
not count against the command limit. Also ex-
cepted are pieces moving by road on primary 
roads – any number of pieces may move on pri-
mary roads in a turn.
A player may move his groups in any order 
he pleases.
A piece may only be moved once in a turn. 
Once it has been moved, it may not be moved 
again that turn.
A player may not move pieces into a locale 
if that would cause the number of pieces he has 
in that locale (not counting any enemy pieces) to 
exceed the locale’s capacity limit.
The capacity limit is for the entire locale. 
There are no sub-limits for reserve or blocking. 
Any or all of the pieces in a particular locale can 
be in reserve or blocking a particular approach.
A piece may not move to block an approach 
unless the locale opposite that approach is en-
emy-occupied. Should the enemy pieces later 
leave the opposite locale, the blocking pieces 
must move into reserve - they cannot remain 
and continue to block the approach. Such block-
ing pieces may move into reserve in the same 
locale without it counting against the command 
limit, but if they move into the opposite locale, 
the move does count against the command limit. 
If the enemy pieces left in the enemy turn, the 
blocking pieces must leave in the next friendly 
turn; if the enemy pieces left in the friendly turn, 
then the blocking pieces must leave in that same 
friendly turn (NOTE: if the blocking pieces had 
already moved in that turn, they still must move 
out, but they must move back into reserve in the 
same locale; they cannot proceed into the op-
posite locale).
Pieces are prohibited from moving across 
impassable approaches.
Pieces cannot move across an approach that 
is blocked by enemy pieces. An enemy-blocked 
approach can only be crossed by assault (see 
section 11).
Pieces may attempt to move into an enemy 
occupied locale, provided that the approach they 
are crossing is not enemy-blocked (none of the 
enemy pieces in the locale are blocking the ap-
proach the moving pieces are crossing). Such a 
move is called a maneuver attack – see section 
9 for details.
The legal movement options for a piece de-
pend on which of the following cases apply:
• The piece starts the turn in reserve (and 
is not moving by road).
• The piece starts the turn blocking an ap-
• The piece is moving by road.
• The piece is cavalry.
• The piece is entering the map as a rein-
forcement.
The rest of the rules in this section will ex-
amine each of these cases in turn.
A piece in reserve at the start of the turn 
(and which is not moving by road) has the fol-
lowing movement choices:
• It may move to reserve in an adjacent 
locale.
• It may move to block an approach of the 
locale it occupies.
 The following example demonstrates these 
choices:
In the example shown above, the infantry 
piece may move to block the approach to the top 
sections 6-8 • setting up the game, sequence of play, movement

locale but may not move into it because the ap-
proach is enemy-blocked. It may move into re-
serve in the locale to right – but may not block 
the approach to it because the locale is not en-
emy-occupied. It may not block or cross the ap-
proach to the left because it is impassable.
A piece blocking an approach at the start of 
a turn has the following movement choices:
• It may move into reserve in the locale it 
occupies.
• It may move into the locale opposite the 
approach it occupies.
The following example demonstrates these 
choices:
In the example shown above, the top infantry 
piece may move into reserve to the left, but may 
not move into the opposite locale to the right 
because the approach is enemy-blocked. The 
bottom infantry piece can either move into re-
serve at the top-left, or it can move into reserve 
in the opposite locale to the bottom-right (note: 
the bottom infantry piece cannot stay where it is, 
but may move to the top-left without that move 
counting against the command limit). 
A piece moving by road can move along the 
road for up to three locales in a single turn, fol-
lowing the road from locale to locale. In order 
to use road movement, however, it must start 
its turn in reserve in a locale containing a road. 
Additionally, approaches and locales through 
which a piece moves by road must meet both of 
the following requirements:
• They must be connected by an unbroken 
road.
• They must not be occupied by enemy 
pieces.
At the end of a road move, a piece is in reserve.
Roads have a limited capacity. Only three 
pieces may cross any one approach by any one 
road in a single turn. Of these, only one can be 
on its ﬁrst move of the turn, only one can be 
on its second move of the turn, and only one 
can be on its third move of the turn. The moves 
must be made in order (i.e. a piece using its ﬁrst 
move cannot cross after a piece using its second 
or third, and a piece using its second move can-
not cross after a piece using its third) and must 
be in the same direction. In order to accommo-
date this limit, a piece is permitted to wait on 
one of its three moves while another piece uses 
the road.
There are approaches crossed by more than 
one road. In such cases, each road has its own 
capacity for that approach, independent of the 
other.
The example below illustrates road move-
ment:
In the example shown above, the cavalry 
piece is the ﬁrst to move and moves the full 
three locales. The infantry piece moves second, 
but can only move two locales because it has 
to give up its ﬁrst move waiting for the cavalry. 
The artillery piece moves third, but can only 
move one locale because it has to give up its 
ﬁrst move waiting for the cavalry and its second 
move waiting for the infantry. The pieces cannot 
move by road through any of the approaches on 
the right or bottom of the example because the 
road does not cross them.
A cavalry piece that ends its move in reserve 
may continue its move and block an approach 
in that locale, provided that the locale opposite 
that approach is enemy-occupied. This is called 
continuation.
A cavalry piece that starts its move block-
ing an approach may not move back into reserve 
in the same locale and then use continuation to 
block a different approach in that same locale.
A cavalry piece may use continuation after a 
road move, but only to an approach that is con-
nected by road to the road on which the piece 
moved. There is no command limit cost if the 
entire move (including continuation) is by pri-
mary road. Note: a cavalry piece that starts its 
turn in reserve on a primary road is permitted to 
“move” in place and then use continuation along 
the primary road (at no command limit cost) to 
block an approach in that same locale.
Continuation is at the end of a move – after 
a piece has used continuation, it may not move 
any further that turn.
Cavalry may split off from a group to per-
form continuation, but it becomes a new group 
and incurs an additional command limit cost 
when it does so.
A cavalry piece using continuation must be 
turned up to demonstrate that the piece is cav-
alry. It can be turned face-down afterwards.
The example below shows the continuation 
ability of cavalry:
In the example shown above, the gray ar-
row indicates the move that any type of piece 
(infantry, cavalry, or artillery) could make. The 
two black arrows show the continuation choices 
available to cavalry. Note that the cavalry could 
not block the approach on the left, because the 
locale opposite that approach is not enemy-oc-
cupied.
A piece entering the map as a reinforce-
ment does so using road movement (exception: 
see the paragraph below). The ﬁrst piece to enter 
from a given entry point in a turn is on its ﬁrst 
move and can move three locales, the second is 
on its second move and can move two locales, 
and the third pieces is on its third move and can 
move one locale. A piece is not permitted to 
enter play if the entry locale is at its capacity 
limit or enemy-occupied; it must wait until the 
condition no longer applies. If there are more 
pieces than can enter in one turn, the remainder 
can enter in subsequent turns.
In the historical battle, the Austrians threw 
a pontoon bridge across the Bormida River. To 
reﬂect this, in addition to being able to bring 
pieces on by road, they can bring one additional 
piece in per turn using non-road movement. As 
with normal reinforcements, this piece may not 
be brought in if the entry locale is at its capacity 
limit or enemy-occupied. A piece crossing the 
pontoon bridge counts as a separate group for 
the command limit.
sections 8 • movement

6 Bonaparte at Marengo
Order of entry for reinforcements is up to the 
player controlling the pieces.
Reinforcement entry is optional. Because a 
player is able to bring reinforcements into play 
in a given turn does not mean that he has to: he 
can wait until a later turn if he chooses.
9. Maneuver Attacks
A maneuver attack is a move by friendly 
pieces into an enemy-occupied locale. Maneuver 
attacks occur during movement and are part of 
movement.
 A maneuver attack can only be made across 
an approach that is not blocked by enemy piec-
es.
A group making a maneuver attack into cav-
alry-obstructing terrain must include at least one 
infantry piece. When making an attack into such 
terrain, a player must turn one of the attacking 
pieces face-up to show that it is infantry. The 
piece may be turned face-down again at the end 
of the move.
A cavalry piece may make maneuver attacks 
while moving by road. Infantry and artillery 
pieces may not. A cavalry piece doing so must 
be turned face up to show that it is cavalry. It 
can be turned face-down again at the end of the 
attack. A cavalry piece moving along a primary 
road may make a maneuver attack without los-
ing its exemption from the command limit.
A maneuver attack does not automatically 
succeed. There are two possible outcomes:
(1) Blocked. The enemy player may choose 
to block the attack if the following conditions 
apply:
• The attacking pieces started their turn in 
reserve. If the attacking pieces started 
their turn blocking the approach, the 
attack cannot be blocked.
• The enemy player has one or more piec-
es in reserve in the locale.
If the enemy player chooses to block the attack, 
then he must move one or more of his pieces 
from reserve in the locale to block the approach. 
The attacking player then chooses to either 
leave his pieces in place (this would still count 
against the command limit), advance to block 
the opposite approach (a cavalry piece moving 
by road does not lose its command limit exemp-
tion by doing this), or split the group and have 
some advance and some remain in place (split-
ting the group requires an additional command). 
This ends the attacking pieces’ movement for 
the turn.
(2) Successful. If the enemy player was not 
able or willing to block the move, the enemy 
pieces must retreat (see section 12). The friend-
ly pieces then move into reserve in the locale. If 
the friendly pieces are cavalry pieces moving by 
road, they may continue their move according to 
the rules of road movement – including making 
additional maneuver attacks as they proceed.
Below are two examples of maneuver at-
tacks. The ﬁrst example shows a blocked result 
and the second shows a successful result:
Pieces face-up are for illustration only.
In the (blocked) example shown above, the 
light gray arrow shows the infantry piece con-
ducting a maneuver attack into the locale occu-
pied by the enemy cavalry piece. The dark gray 
arrow shows the enemy cavalry piece blocking 
the approach. The black arrows show the choic-
es the infantry piece has after being blocked: to 
stay in reserve where it is or block the approach 
opposite the one blocked by the enemy. 
Pieces face-up are for illustration only.
In the (successful) example shown above, the 
black arrow shows the infantry piece conduct-
ing a maneuver attack into the locale occupied 
by the enemy cavalry piece. The gray arrow 
shows the enemy cavalry piece retreating from 
the locale. Because the enemy piece retreated, 
the maneuver attack succeeds and the infantry 
piece moves into the locale. 
10. Artillery Bombardment
A bombardment is when an artillery piece 
ﬁres at enemy pieces (each side has only one 
artillery piece, so the problem of attacks by 
multiple artillery pieces doesn’t arise). The ar-
tillery piece is the attacking piece and the enemy 
pieces targeted by the bombardment are the de-
fending pieces.
Only an artillery piece may conduct a bom-
bardment. Infantry and cavalry pieces may not 
conduct bombardments.
A bombardment takes two turns to conduct. A 
bombardment is declared (and the piece turned 
face-up) at the end of a player’s turn, but is not 
resolved until the following turn. Additionally, 
an artillery piece may not declare a bombard-
ment in the same turn in which it ﬁred (the effect 
is that artillery can only ﬁre every other turn).
 An artillery piece may move in the same turn 
in which it declares a bombardment, but it may 
not move in the same turn in which the bom-
bardment is resolved. Exception: if an artillery 
piece is forced to move after a bombardment be-
cause it is blocking an approach with no enemy 
pieces in the opposite locale, it must move back 
into reserve in the same locale.
An artillery piece may not assault in the 
same turn in which a bombardment by it is de-
clared or resolved.
In his turn, a player is not obligated to de-
clare a bombardment; bombardment is always 
optional.
A piece may only conduct one bombardment 
in a turn. Once it has ﬁred, it may not ﬁre again 
that turn.
In order for an artillery piece to conduct a 
bombardment, it must be blocking an approach: 
it may not be in reserve. The targeted enemy 
pieces must be in the locale opposite that ap-
A bombardment declaration may be can-
celled at the time the bombardment is to be re-
solved, either because there is no longer a target 
or at the discretion of the bombarding player. If 
a bombardment is cancelled, no losses are in-
ﬂicted, the artillery is turned face-down again, 
and the artillery is free to move that turn.
After a bombardment is resolved, any target-
ed pieces turned face-up during the attack are 
turned face-down again. The bombarding artil-
lery remains face-up until the end of the turn.
A bombardment is resolved as follows:
(1) The target is selected. If the approach op-
posite the attacking artillery is blocked by en-
emy pieces, those pieces are the target. If the 
approach is not blocked, but there are enemy 
pieces in reserve in that locale, the reserve piec-
es are the target. If there are no pieces blocking 
the opposite approach and there are no pieces in 
reserve in the locale, the attacking player may 
pick the pieces in any of the other approaches in 
that locale as the target.
(2) The strength of the bombardment is cal-
culated. This is the strength of the ﬁring artillery 
piece. If the target is in the approach opposite 
the attacking artillery, and there is an artil-
lery attack penalty for that approach, then the 
strength of the attack is reduced by the size of 
that penalty. If the target is in reserve or in some 
approach other than the opposite approach, no 
terrain penalty is assessed.
(3) The losses are applied. From among 
the target pieces, the defending player chooses 
which piece will take the losses from the attack. 
For each point of strength in the attack, one 
point of strength is lost. If the strength of the 
attack is equal to or greater than the strength of 
sections 9,10 • maneuver attacks, artillery bombardment

the targeted piece, it is eliminated. The piece the 
defending player chooses must be turned face-
up so that the losses are visible.
Shown below is a step-by-step example of a 
bombardment. For steps involving calculations, 
the numeric values for the example are in pa-
rentheses:
The bombardment is declared: the artil-
lery piece is moved in to block the approach, 
the bombardment is declared, and the artillery 
piece is turned face-up. Note: the target piece is 
drawn a little behind the approach it occupies 
so that the terrain penalty symbols for that ap-
proach can be seen.
Waiting until the next turn: the artillery is 
left face-up throughout the enemy player’s turn. 
The attack will be resolved during the attacking 
player’s next turn.
 The target is selected. There is an enemy 
piece in the approach opposite the artillery 
piece, so the enemy pieces in that approach are 
selected as the target.
strength = 1
The strength of the bombardment is calcu-
lated. The strength of the attacking artillery 
piece (1) is reduced by the terrain penalty of the 
approach occupied by the defending pieces (0), 
yielding the attack strength (1). (1 - 0 = 1).
Losses are applied. The bombardment had 
a strength of 1, so the defender must lose 1 
strength point. The defending player turns the 
defending piece face-up – a two-strength infan-
try piece – and inﬂicts a one strength point loss 
by replacing it with one of the replacement one-
strength infantry pieces.
End of the bombardment. The artillery piece 
and the target infantry are returned to the nor-
mal face-down position – the defending piece 
right away, the attacking piece at the end of the 
turn. The artillery will be eligible to declare a 
new bombardment at the end of its next turn.
11. Assaults
An assault is when one or more pieces at-
tempt to advance together across an approach 
that is blocked by enemy pieces. The pieces at-
tempting the advance are the attacking pieces 
and the enemy pieces blocking the approach are 
the defending pieces.
In his turn, a player may make as few or as 
many assaults as he likes, up to his command 
limit.
Assaults are resolved one at a time; the re-
sults of one assault are applied before the next 
can be started.
Only one assault can be made across a given 
approach per turn, but multiple pieces can par-
ticipate in it. An assault costs one against the 
command limit, regardless of the number of 
pieces participating.
A group of pieces attacking in an assault must 
include at least one piece that can be used as a 
leading piece (see step 1 of the assault resolu-
tion sequence below for an explanation). Other 
pieces can participate in the attack even if they 
are not leading it.
In order for pieces to participate in an assault 
together, they must be blocking an approach 
together – they may not be blocking different 
approaches and they may not be in reserve. The 
target for an assault is always the locale oppo-
site the approach the attacking pieces occupy.
A piece may not conduct an assault and move 
in the same turn. If a piece conducts an assault, 
it may not move until the next turn.
If a locale is taken by an assault, no other 
friendly pieces may move into that locale that 
turn other than those that participated in that 
assault. 
If the attacking pieces are defeated in an 
assault, no friendly pieces may move across 
the approach that was assaulted that turn, even 
if the defending pieces blocking the approach 
were eliminated by the assault. Friendly pieces 
may assault or move into the locale across other 
approaches.
If a locale is taken by an assault, any cavalry 
among the assaulting pieces may use continu-
ation and block any approach in that locale if 
the locale opposite it is enemy-occupied. If 
this causes the group to split, each split creates 
a new group and counts as a move against the 
command limit.
When a player declares that an assault is to 
be made from an approach, not all the pieces 
blocking that approach have to participate – the 
player may choose to leave some behind. In 
making an assault, the attacking player must 
indicate which pieces are attacking and which 
are not (suggestion: one way to indicate which 
pieces are attacking is to push them forward a 
little so that there is a gap between the pieces 
that are attacking and those staying behind).
An assault can result in losses for the at-
tacking or defending pieces, as a result of artil-
lery defense, the assault resolution, or cavalry 
pursuit. As will be described later, some pieces 
from each side will have been named as lead-
ing the attack or defense. Any losses must ﬁrst 
be applied to these leading pieces, and then, if 
all the leading pieces are eliminated and more 
losses are required, to the non-leading pieces. 
Between multiple leading pieces, the enemy 
player (the one inﬂicting the loss) gets to decide 
how to distribute the losses. Between multiple 
non-leading pieces, the friendly player (the one 
suffering the loss) gets to decide how to distrib-
ute them. If the required loss is greater than the 
strength of the pieces participating in the attack, 
the extra losses are ignored – losses in an assault 
are never applied to pieces not participating in 
the attack, even if they are in the same locale as 
the attacking or defending pieces.
After an assault is over, any pieces turned 
face-up during the attack are turned face-down 
again.
An assault is resolved as follows:
(1) Attacking leading pieces are declared. 
From the pieces making the assault, the at-
tacking player must declare which are to be 
the leading pieces in the attack and turn them 
face-up. Only infantry or cavalry pieces with 
a strength of two or more may be declared as 
the leading pieces. Additionally, each leading 
piece’s strength must be greater than the terrain 
penalty for the attacked approach. The leading 
pieces in the attack must be either all-infantry 
or all-cavalry – they cannot be a mix of the two. 
The minimum number of leading pieces is one. 
The maximum number is one if the attacked 
approach is narrow, two if wide. Note: cavalry 
cannot lead an assault into cavalry-obstructed 
terrain.
(2) Artillery defense is declared. If the de-
fending pieces include any artillery pieces that 
did not declare or resolve a bombardment attack 
in their previous turn, the defending player may 
section 10,11 • artillery bombardment, assaults

8 Bonaparte at Marengo
opt to have those pieces conduct an artillery 
defense. To do so, the defending player selects 
those pieces and turns them face-up. 
(3) Artillery defense is resolved. If an artil-
lery defense was declared, it is resolved. For 
each strength point of artillery, one strength 
point of loss is suffered by the attacking pieces.
(4) Defending leading pieces are declared. 
From the pieces defending the approach, the 
defending player must declare which are to be 
the leading pieces of the defense and turn them 
face-up. The leading pieces in the defense must 
be either all-infantry or all-cavalry – they cannot 
be a mix of the two and they cannot be artillery. 
The minimum number of leading pieces is zero. 
The maximum number is one if the attacked 
approach is narrow, two if wide. Note: cavalry 
cannot lead the defense of a cavalry-obstructing 
approach.
(5) The strength of the assault is calculated. 
This is done by adding together the strengths of 
all of the attacker’s leading pieces in the assault 
(after applying any artillery defense losses) and 
then subtracting the terrain penalty for the ap-
proach the attacking pieces are trying to take 
(the infantry penalty is applied if the leading at-
tacking pieces were infantry; the cavalry penal-
ty is applied if the leading attacking pieces were 
cavalry). The adjusted strength can be a nega-
tive number as a result of losses to an artillery 
defense. If all the leading attacking pieces were 
eliminated by artillery defense, then the strength 
of the attack is zero minus the terrain penalty for 
the approach.
(6) The result of the assault is calculated. 
The strengths of the pieces leading the defense 
are subtracted from the strength of the assault. If 
there are no leading pieces for the defense, then 
nothing is subtracted from the strength of the as-
sault. The difference is the assault result. If the 
result is greater than zero, the attacking pieces 
win; if the result is less than or equal to zero, the 
defending pieces win.
(7) Losses from the assault are applied. The 
winning side loses one strength point. The los-
ing side loses one strength point and one more 
for each point the result was above or below 
zero. Note: it is possible for all of the defend-
ing pieces to be eliminated and for the defense 
to still win.
(8) Cavalry pursuit is declared. If the win-
ning player has cavalry pieces participating in 
the assault, but which were not leading it, and 
the losing player did not have cavalry as his 
leading pieces, the winning player may choose 
to declare a cavalry pursuit. If he does so, he 
must declare which cavalry pieces will lead the 
pursuit and turn them face-up. If the pursuit is 
declared, the minimum number of pieces is one 
(or else there can be no pursuit). The maximum 
number is one if the attacked approach is nar-
row, two if wide. Note: a cavalry pursuit may 
not be declared if the approach occupied by the 
defenders or the approach occupied by the at-
tackers is cavalry-obstructing. Cavalry pursuit 
does not count against the command limit.
(9) Cavalry pursuit strength is calculated. If 
a cavalry pursuit was declared, the strength is 
calculated. This is done by adding the strengths 
of the pursuing cavalry pieces together, and sub-
tracting from that the terrain penalty of the ap-
proach occupied by the attacker (if the defender 
is pursuing) or the defender (if the attacker is 
pursuing). The terrain penalty is for the ap-
proach occupied by the pieces being pursued.
(10) Cavalry pursuit losses are applied. If a 
cavalry pursuit was declared, losses are applied. 
The pursuing cavalry takes a loss of one strength 
point (this comes from the cavalry pieces carry-
ing out the pursuit, not the pieces leading the 
assault). The enemy pieces take a loss equal to 
the cavalry pursuit strength.
(11) The winning pieces own the locale. If 
the assault was won by the defender, then the 
surviving attacking pieces withdraw into reserve 
in the locale from which they were attacking 
and the defending pieces remain in place. If the 
assault was won by the attacker, then all of the 
defending player’s pieces in the locale (not just 
those defending the approach) must retreat (sec-
tion 12) and the attacking pieces advance into 
reserve in the locale they assaulted, after which 
any attacking cavalry may use continuation.
Shown below is a step-by-step example of 
an assault. For steps involving calculations, the 
numeric values for the example are in parenthe-
ses: 
The assault is declared: the two pieces at 
the top are declared as conducting an assault 
against the three enemy pieces below. Note: the 
pieces are drawn a little behind the approaches 
they occupy so that the terrain penalties for the 
approaches can be seen.
Attacking leading pieces are declared. The 
attacking player selects a three-strength infan-
try piece to lead the attack and turns that piece 
face-up.
Artillery defense is declared: the defending 
player announces that he will conduct an artil-
lery defense and turns the artillery piece face-
up.
Artillery defense is resolved. The strength of 
the defending artillery piece (1) is the number 
of strength points the attacking pieces must lose. 
The loss is taken from the piece leading the at-
tack. The attacking three-strength infantry piece 
is replaced with a two-strength infantry piece.
Defending leading pieces are declared. The 
defending player selects a two-strength infantry 
pieces to lead the defense and turns that piece 
face-up.
section 11 • assaults

strength = 1
The strength of the assault is calculated. The 
strengths of the leading attacking pieces are 
added together (2) and the penalty for the ap-
proach blocked by the defense (1) is subtracted 
yielding the assault strength (1). (2 - 1 = 1).
result = -1
The result of the assault is calculated. From 
the assault strength (1), the strength of the lead-
ing pieces of the defense (2) is subtracted, yield-
ing the result (-1). (1 - 2 = -1). Because the re-
sult is less than or equal to zero, the defending 
pieces defeat the attacking pieces.
Losses from the assault are applied. The de-
fending pieces won, so they lose 1. The attacking 
pieces lost, so they lose 1 plus 1 for each point 
the result was above or below zero (1) for a total 
loss of 2 (1 + 1 = 2). The defending pieces’ loss 
is applied by replacing the two-strength lead-
ing infantry piece with a one-strength infantry 
piece. The attacking pieces’ loss is applied by 
eliminating their two-strength leading infantry 
piece.
Cavalry pursuit is declared. The defending 
side won, and included cavalry that was not 
leading the defense, so the defending player can 
and does declare a cavalry pursuit. The pur-
suit is by a two-strength cavalry piece, which is 
turned face-up.
result = 1
Cavalry pursuit result is calculated. The 
strength of the cavalry (2) is reduced by the ter-
rain penalty in the approach occupied by the at-
tacker (1) yielding the pursuit result (1). (2 - 1 = 
1).
Cavalry pursuit losses are applied. The pur-
suit had a strength of 1, so the attacking pieces 
lose 1 strength point, which is applied by reveal-
ing and then replacing a two-strength infantry 
piece with a one-strength infantry piece. The 
pursuing cavalry loses 1 as well (pursuing cav-
alry always loses 1) which is applied by replac-
ing a two-strength pursuing cavalry piece with 
a one-strength cavalry piece.
The winning side owns the locale. The de-
fending pieces win and hold their position 
blocking the approach. The surviving attacking 
pieces withdraw into reserve in the locale from 
which they attacked. The assault is over and all 
pieces involved in the assault are turned face-
down again.
12. Retreats
A retreat occurs when pieces are forced out 
of the locale they occupy as a result of an enemy 
maneuver attack or assault. A retreat can result 
in losses to the retreating pieces.
When a player’s pieces in a locale must 
retreat, all of that player’s pieces in the locale 
must retreat: none can remain behind.
The withdrawal of attacking pieces after an 
assault is not technically considered a retreat 
and is not covered by the rules in this section. 
The attacking pieces are not being forced to re-
treat to a different locale but rather are remain-
ing in the locale from which they started. 
Retreating pieces are turned face-up at the 
start of the retreat, and turned face-down again 
at the end.
An artillery piece that is forced to retreat is 
eliminated.
For infantry pieces forced to retreat from re-
serve, a one strength point loss is assessed. If 
there is more than one infantry piece in the re-
serve, the retreating player chooses which piece 
will suffer the loss.
Cavalry pieces forced to retreat from reserve 
do not suffer any loss.
For each approach from which infantry 
or cavalry pieces are forced to retreat, a one 
strength point loss is assessed. (Exception: if 
the retreating pieces were participants in the 
assault that caused the retreat, they do not take 
additional losses above and beyond what they 
suffered in the assault.) If there is more than 
one piece blocking the approach, the retreating 
player chooses which piece will suffer the loss; 
it can be either infantry or cavalry.
The retreating player gets to choose the ad-
jacent locale into which his pieces retreat, with 
the following restrictions:
sections 11,12 • assaults, retreats

10 Bonaparte at Marengo
• The retreat may not be into the locale 
from which the enemy pieces came that 
caused the retreat.
• The retreat may not be across an impass-
able approach.
• The retreat may not be into an enemy-
occupied locale.
• The retreat may not be into a locale that 
would cause the total number of the 
player’s pieces there to exceed its capac-
ity.
If there are multiple retreating pieces and 
multiple locales into which they may retreat, the 
pieces may retreat into different locales.
Retreating pieces are put in reserve in the lo-
cale into which they retreat.
If there are no locales into which the retreat-
ing pieces are permitted to retreat, the retreating 
pieces are eliminated.
Retreats do not count against the command 
limit.
An example of a retreat is shown below:
The infantry piece at top was defeated in 
an assault by the enemy pieces opposite it and 
forced to retreat. Because of the defeat, the oth-
er infantry and cavalry piece in the locale had 
to retreat as well. The infantry piece at the left 
was blocking an approach and therefore had to 
suffer a loss of one in the retreat, eliminating 
it. The piece in reserve was cavalry and there-
fore retreated without loss. The retreating pieces 
cannot retreat to the top because that is where 
the enemy is coming from, and cannot retreat 
to the left because the locale to the left is en-
emy-occupied, and cannot retreat to the bottom 
because the approach is impassable, so the only 
available retreat direction is taken: to the right. 
The retreating pieces are turned face-up at the 
start of the retreat and face-down at the end.
13. Demoralization
Demoralization is a state of reduced effec-
tiveness for an army. It is the result of excessive 
losses.
Printed on the game board is a morale track 
on which markers are placed at the start of the 
game. Every time an army loses a strength point, 
its marker is moved down (towards zero) by 
one. If the marker ever reaches zero, the army 
becomes demoralized.
If one army is demoralized in a round and 
the other army is not demoralized in the same 
round, the non-demoralized army gets an in-
crease of ﬁve morale points at the start of the 
next round.
If an army becomes demoralized, all of its 
pieces have their effectiveness in combat re-
duced. They can no longer conduct assaults 
and they are under a one-strength point penalty 
(per piece) in calculating their assault defense 
strength. Artillery bombardment strength, ar-
tillery defense strength, and cavalry pursuit 
strength are not affected.
If an army becomes demoralized during an 
assault in which it is the attacker, that assault 
is completed before the ban on demoralized 
armies conducting assaults is applied. If the de-
moralization occurred during defensive artillery 
ﬁre, the demoralized attacking pieces are under 
a one-strength point penalty (per piece) in cal-
culating their assault strength in that assault.
14. Winning the Game
If at the end of the game, one player’s army 
is demoralized and the other player’s army is 
not, then the player whose army is not demor-
alized wins. NOTE: the rules give the players 
the ability to simulate the pursuit of a demoral-
ized army (which is how the battle ended his-
torically), but from a purely competitive point 
of view, there is seldom any point in continuing 
play should one side become demoralized while 
the other does not.
If neither or both armies are demoralized 
at the end of the game, then territorial control 
is used as a tie-breaker. To that end, there are 
eight locales at the east end of the map marked 
with stars that serve as territorial objectives. The 
stars are in three different colors (red, blue, and 
green). The Austrian player wins if at the end of 
the game he has pieces occupying at least two 
of the eight locales from at least two of the three 
colors. The French player wins if at the end of 
the game the Austrian player has not achieved 
his territorial objectives: i.e. his pieces do not 
occupy any of the territorial objective locales, 
or all the locales they occupy are of the same 
color (all red, all blue, or all green). Again, ter-
ritorial control determines victory only if both 
or neither army is demoralized.
•
Contact information:
web: http://www.simmonsgames.com
support: support@simmonsgames.com
sales: sales@simmonsgames.com
sections 12-14 • retreats, demoralization, winning the game

The genesis of Bonaparte at Marengo is in 
battle maps drawn in the nineteenth century. The 
most distinctive aspect of their appearance is the 
way the armies were rendered, as strikingly geo-
metrical long straight lines, one army in red the 
other in blue. This appearance is what I came to 
call “The Look”.
Conventional wargames, with square pieces 
of cardboard on hexagonal grids, never capture 
The Look – they have plenty of geometry but it 
is not the geometry of linear warfare but the ge-
ometry of hexagons, dominated by the direction 
of the grain of the hex grid.
Ironically, early wargames, the nineteenth 
century German Kriegspiel, physically were 
quite close to The Look: they used rectangular 
wooden blocks on a gridless map. The Look is 
not something that wargames never had, but 
something they had and lost. If I was to suc-
ceed, it would be by at least a partial return to 
these roots.
Of course, it can be asked why a fuss is being 
made about The Look anyway – isn’t what mat-
ters how much fun the game is to play, or how 
accurate it is historically?
I think, however, that these things are bound 
together. How much fun a game is, how ac-
curate it is, and how it looks are all grounded 
in the game as time machine. The best games 
transport the player from the time and place in 
which he lives into the time and place the game 
represents, and people respond so strongly to vi-
sual cues that if you give them the right ones the 
job is half done, and if you give them the wrong 
ones you may never succeed no matter what else 
you do right.
So, the quest for The Look led to the idea of 
using the rectangular blocks of the Kriegspiel. 
However, the gridless representation of the 
battleﬁeld, which the Kriegspiel shared with 
modern miniatures, carried with it grave prob-
lems – in such systems, typically there are huge 
differences between almost identical distances 
like 15/16 of an inch and 17/16 of an inch, re-
sulting in a fussiness that is very dislocating to 
the sense of period – no Napoleonic commander 
ever worried about whether the enemy was 99 
yards away or 101 yards away.
But if the map wasn’t to be gridless and 
wasn’t to be a hex grid, what would it be? The 
only alternative systems I knew of were point-
to-point systems and area systems (actually 
the two are different graphical representations 
of functionally the same thing). Area systems 
have been used for many years, but while they 
have been used with great success in large-scale 
games, the few games using them for small-
scale battles were not as successful and tended 
to have even less of a linear 19th century period 
feel than hex-based games.
Searching for an alternative I came upon 
the idea of a point-to-point variant: instead of 
the pieces being positioned on the points, they 
would be positioned on the connections around 
the points. When I began to work with this idea 
graphically, it quickly became apparent that the 
area representation worked much better than the 
point representation, and with that realization, 
the game’s physical design was locked in: The 
map would consist of polygons with rectangular 
block pieces that would deploy on the faces. At 
that point, all that was needed were some game 
mechanics to go with the physical design.
Years ago I had done some work in 
Napoleonic game design, mostly with variants 
of Frank Davis’s brilliant Wellington’s Victory 
game system. What Davis had done really well 
was capture the differences between the arms 
(infantry vs. cavalry vs. artillery) from which 
the game drew its period ﬂavor.
I did not, however, want to rehash what 
Davis had done. This was partly because I had 
no idea how to integrate elements of his system 
into the physical design I was committed to, 
and partly because his system was fantastically 
complicated and I wanted a simple game.
Simplicity was a goal because I felt that if 
you wanted to design a complex game, a com-
puter game was the right medium, not a board 
game. In a computer game, the programmer 
could put the complexity under the hood where 
the player would never have to deal with it; all 
of the beneﬁts for the player and none of the 
costs.
What a board game could offer that a com-
puter game could not was in part aesthetic (The 
Look being much more easily accomplished on 
30 by 20 inch, 300 dots-per-inch paper than on 
a 16 by 12 inch, 90 pixels-per-inch display) and 
in part social: Computer games are best played 
alone, while board games are best played with 
friends.
From long experience, I knew that complex-
ity and length were huge barriers to social gam-
ing. I was looking for a game that would ﬁt in 
with having a friend over for an evening, and 
nobody wants to spend the whole evening read-
ing rules and setting up the game.
The ﬁrst consequence of the quest for sim-
plicity was that the number of pieces would 
have to be kept small. It is very hard to have 
a game that can be played in a reasonable time 
if it has a large number of pieces, even if the 
mechanics are simple, so the game system was 
scaled to keep that number small.
A related idea was to keep all the math in the 
game simple – single digit numbers only and no 
long division. For this reason, I selected a dif-
ferential combat resolution system, and the unit 
strengths were expressed simply – one, two or 
three. Another mathematical simpliﬁcation was 
in movement – the ground scale and time scale 
were set so that pieces would move only one 
area per turn. Terrain effects on movement are 
expressed not by “movement points” but by the 
sizes of the areas – the more difﬁcult the terrain, 
the smaller the areas.
Another advantage that fell out of the use 
of areas was that they were large enough that 
the effects of terrain on combat could be drawn 
directly onto the map, instead of having to be 
represented indirectly through a terrain effects 
table. Similarly, the differential system and sim-
pliﬁed math made it possible to do away with 
combat results tables as well. Tables are an an-
noyance; it is often difﬁcult to ﬁnd space for 
them in the design of the game board without 
making the board bigger and players ﬁnd them 
an annoyance when on separate sheets. Both for 
the physical design of the game as well as ease 
of play, I was quite happy to be able to do with-
out them.
The design of the rules for bombardments 
and assaults were done not long after the map 
design was completed. They reﬂect two things: 
the ability of the three-dimensional playing piec-
es to easily represent limited intelligence (with 
two-sided pieces, having pieces “face-down” 
is a maddening exercise in memorization), and 
my desire for the strong distinctions between 
the arms that had characterized Wellington’s 
Victory. The multi-step system incorporates 
both, with the fortuitous effect that the inclusion 
of intelligence provided the uncertainty that in 
most wargames must be provided by dice. Thus, 
by happy chance (so to speak) dumb luck was 
almost completely designed out of the game.
Movement, on the other hand, proved a 
much more difﬁcult problem. Napoleonic infan-
try and artillery didn’t ﬁght on the move, and 
retreating infantry and artillery were extremely 
vulnerable to being run down by enemy cavalry. 
Additionally, co-ordinating a moving ﬁght over 
a large area was far beyond the capabilities of 
the period’s courier-based command system. To 
portray these problems, I tried many rules varia-
tions: in some, the armies wheeled around like 
modern tank armies, and in others pursuit was so 
difﬁcult that the French army could win simply 
by walking backwards slowly. The ﬁnal version 
is built on the rules for maneuver attacks and 
command limits, which work to force retreating 
infantry and artillery to the primary roads, while 
leaving cavalry some ability to conduct more 
ﬂuid battles of maneuver.
In looking at the design as a whole, the thing 
I ﬁnd most interesting is how the original pursuit 
of The Look resulted in a game that rejected the 
great majority of the conventions of wargame 
design, without that result having ever been 
intended. Throughout the design, the choice of 
new physical and graphical components changed 
the matrix of what was possible and impossible, 
easy and difﬁcult, resulting in a game that is cer-
tainly different from other wargames, and which 
I hope will be as enjoyable and interesting to 
play as it has been to design.
Design Notes