The Classic 1978 Board Game 
FOR 2–4 Players
AGES 8 and up
OBJECT
To be the first player to score 12 points.
EQUIPMENT
THIS GAME IS BONKERS gameboard
4 Plastic Tokens
4 Plastic Scoring Pegs
1 Scoring Pegboard
2 Dice
40 Track Cards
4 Large Lose Cards
Instructions
TM
Bonkers Rules2.indd 1

SET UP
1. Hand each player a token and a large Lose Card.
2. Select a player to hand out Track Cards and keep score, this is the 
 Scorekeeper. 
3. The Scorekeeper shuffles the Track Cards and deals 4 to each player, 		
	 	 places the remaining Track Cards, facedown, on the table and places 
 a peg for each player into the starting position of the Scoring Pegboard.
4. Turn your 4 Track Cards face-up in front of you.
5. Place your token on Start.
6. Roll the dice. The player who rolls the highest number goes first. 
 Play then proceeds to the left.
The Board
There are three types of spaces on the board: 1 purple LOSE space, 3 
orange SCORE spaces and a larger number of track spaces. You score 
1 point each time you move onto a SCORE space. You lose 1 point each 
time you move onto the LOSE space. You can score or lose by moving 
either forward or backward.
The TRACK CARDS are placed onto the board. They determine both 
the direction and the distance of your moves. Use them to move to 
the SCORE spaces as often as you can. There are two permanent GO 
TO LOSE track spaces on the board.
PLAYING
On your turn, roll the dice and move your token the number rolled. What 
you do next will depend on three things: (a) the type of space you land 
on; (b) whether that space is already occupied by an opponent’s playing 
piece; and (c) whether that space already has a Track Card next to it.
1. Unoccupied Track Spaces
An unoccupied Track Space is one without an opponent’s token 
already on it.
	 (a)		If you land on an unoccupied track space with no Track Card next to 
 		 	 	it, place one of your Track Cards next to your token and immediately 
	 	 	 	follow the directions on the card.*
	 (b)	If you land on an unoccupied track space with a Track Card already 
	 	 	 	next to it, do as the card says.*
2. Occupied Track Spaces
An occupied track space is one with an 
opponent’s token already on it. If you 
land on an occupied track space, roll 
again. Do not place a Track Card. If a 
Track Card is already next to that space, 
do not follow its directions.*
Bonkers Rules2.indd 2

4. Lose Space
If you land on the LOSE space, the 
scorekeeper pegs you back 1 point. You 
must also stop your turn–even if this 
space is already occupied. 
Remember: Nobody’s score can ever 
drop below zero.
5. Double 6’s
If you roll Double 6’s, the scorekeeper pegs you ahead 1 point. Move your 
playing piece 12 spaces forward and, depending on the space where you 
land, either stop your turn or continue moving.*
6. Entrapment
As an example of Entrapment, imagine that you land on a “Back 3” which 
then sends you to a “Forward 3”. If this happens, you do not continue to 
move back and forth. Instead, you score 1 point and leave your token on 
the forward space of the trap. By playing your Track Cards correctly, you 
can use Entrapment as an excellent scoring strategy.
7. Exchange Cards
The deck contains 2 Exchange Cards. If you play 
one or land next to one, you may take any card on 
the board, move it next to your token, and replace the 
moved card with the Exchange Card. You then follow 
the instructions on the moved card.*
*
CONTINUE MOVING UNTIL YOU LAND ON:
	
(a) a second unoccupied track space with no 
 	
Track Card next to it;
	
(b) an unoccupied SCORE space;
	
(c) the LOSE space.
On your turn you may not place more than one 
Track Card onto the board.
3. Score Spaces
If you land on a SCORE space, the 
scorekeeper pegs you ahead 1 point. 
	 (a)	If that SCORE space is already 
	 	 	 occupied, you earn your point 
	 	 	 and roll again.*
	 (b)	 If that SCORE space is unoccu-	
	 	 	 pied, you earn your point but 
	 	 	 your turn ends. 
Bonkers Rules2.indd 3

8. If you place a Track Card during your turn, take one from the scorekeeper 
when your turn ends.
9. If all of the Track Cards are placed onto the board, continue to play with 
those you have until someone wins.
10. LARGE LOSE CARDS
Each player receives 1 Large LOSE Card at the 
beginning of the game. These are powerful 
cards: you can use one to slow down an op-
ponent’s progress. You may hand one to any 
opponent at any time during his or her turn. 
By doing this, you immediately stop the oppo-
nent’s turn. The opponent must move to the 
LOSE space, lose 1 point, and pass the dice to 
the next player.
Once a Large LOSE Card is used, it is immediately removed from the 
game.
WINNING THE GAME
The first player to score 12 points is the winner.
We are happy to hear your questions or comments about 
THIS GAME IS BONKERS. 
Contact us:
Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan Street Suite C-104
Danvers, MA 01923
Phone: 1-800-664-7788 ext. 114
Fax: 978-739-4847
Email: wmoves@winning-moves.com
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and compliance 
please visit 
http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
Item # 1204
THIS GAME IS BONKERS is a trademark of Winning Moves Inc. © 2016. All Rights Reserved. Winning Moves Inc., 75 Sylvan Street, 
Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923 Colors and parts may vary. Made in CHINA.
®
®
Bonkers Rules2.indd 4