Welcome to the 5th in a series of Mystery Rummy games, 
all created by Mike Fitzgerald! 
Players: 2-4 · Ages: 8 to adult · Playing Time: 45 minutes 
ABOUT THE CASE
Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were notorious outlaws who robbed banks 
throughout the central United States between 1931 and 1935. Th eir exploits 
and charisma made them famous, and their story has been made into books 
and movies. Ted Hinton was the FBI agent charged with capturing them.
ABOUT THE GAME
You are an FBI agent competing against other agents to see who can catch Bonnie 
and Clyde. Th e object of the game is to be the ﬁ rst to score 100 or more points.
SUMMARY OF PLAY
Th ere are two types of cards used in this game: Evidence (Location) cards and 
the Ted Hinton card. Th e game is played like the classic Rummy card game, 
with players playing melds and layoﬀ s of Evidence cards to score points. Th e 
Ted Hinton card adds a strategic element to the game not found in traditional 
Rummy. After each hand, you total your points, and if no one has 100 or more 
points, you play another hand. 
CONTENTS
 
Evidence Cards (60)
Gameboard
Crime Spree 
ﬁ gure
Bonnie Parker 
Card (1)
Clyde Barrow 
Card (1)
Ted Hinton 
Cards (15)
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 1
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 1
03.12.2008 12:14:58 Uhr
03.12.2008 12:14:58 Uhr

SETUP AND THE DEAL
 1. Place the game board in between the players. Note it has 10 Locations on 
 
 it, from Kaufman Texas to Gibson Louisiana.
 2. Put the Crime Spree car ﬁ gure on Location 1, Kaufman Texas.
 3. Take 8 cards at random from the deck (without looking at them) along 
 
 with the Bonnie and Clyde cards. Shuﬄ e these 10 cards together, then place 
 
 one face down under each of the 10 Locations depicted on the board. You 
 
 can slide them halfway under the board, or put them slightly overlapping 
 
 their spots on the board, etc.
 4. Choose a dealer randomly. Th e dealer shuﬄ es the deck and allows the player 
 
 on their right to cut the deck. If two people are playing, deal 10 cards face 
 
 down to each. If three are playing, deal 9 cards each, and if four are playing, 
 
 deal 8 cards each.
 5. Place the rest of the deck face down in between the players. Th is is the 
 
 Case File (draw pile). Turn over the top card from the Case File and place 
 
 it face up to the right of the Case File. Th is is the FBI Files (discard pile). 
 
 Th e top card is the only card that should be visible in the discard pile. 
 
 Players are not allowed to look through the discard pile unless a card they 
 
 are playing allows them to do so.
THE TURN
Play proceeds clockwise, starting with the player to the dealer’s left. Each player 
completes the following steps, in order, before the next player’s turn begins.
 
• DRAW (Mandatory)
 
• PLAY (Optional)
 
• DISCARD (Mandatory)
Each step of the turn is described in detail below:
DRAW (Mandatory)
Draw 1 card from the top of the Case File, or take the top card from the discard 
pile. Put this card in your hand.
PLAY (Optional) 
You may play Ted Hinton or Evidence in any order:
Ted Hinton: You may play at most one Ted Hinton card per turn. Th is card 
allows you to do your choice of any one of 3 things. 
 
• You may draw 2 cards from the Case File. 
 
• You may take any one card from the FBI Files without showing anyone else. 
 
• You may look at the card under any Location and take it or leave it. 
 
 (If the card is Bonnie or Clyde, you must leave it) 
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 2
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 2
03.12.2008 12:15:08 Uhr
03.12.2008 12:15:08 Uhr

When you are done doing the action you have chosen, put the Ted Hinton card 
in the discard pile. Th is is not the discard that ends your turn.
Evidence Cards: You may place Evidence cards in front of you as melds or as 
layoﬀ s. A meld is three or more Evidence cards of the same Location, so if you 
have a meld in your hand you may play it face up in front of you.
You can play Evidence cards by themselves if they match a meld that is 
already face up in front of any player (including you). Th is is called a layoﬀ . 
For instance, if any player has a Joplin Missouri meld in play, you can play (layoﬀ ) 
a Joplin Missouri Evidence card in front of you. If you have two of the same 
Location card, you can lay them oﬀ one at a time (which counts as two layoﬀ s), 
or both at once (which counts as one layoﬀ ) – your choice. If you layoﬀ two 
diﬀ erent Locations in a single turn, each one counts as a separate layoﬀ .
Playing a meld or layoﬀ of the Location the Crime Spree Car is on.
Once you have placed the meld or layoﬀ , you must do both of the following:
 1. If the Crime Spree Car is at a Location matching the cards you have just 
 
 played, put your meld or layoﬀ in front of you sideways. If there is a card 
 
 on the board at that Location, look at that card without showing anyone 
 
 else. If this card is Bonnie or Clyde, you must take it and play it face up in 
 
 front of you. If this card is any other card, you may put the card in your 
 
 hand or leave the card where it is.
 2. If you played a meld, move the Crime Spree Car up 1 Location 
 
 (towards Gibson Louisiana). If you played a layoﬀ , move the Car up or 
 
 down 1 Location. Do not move the Car oﬀ the board!
Playing a meld or layoﬀ of a Location the Crime Spree Car is not on:
Once you have placed the meld or layoﬀ , you must do both of the following:
 1. If the Crime Spree Car is not at a Location matching the cards you have just 
 
 played, put your meld or layoﬀ in front of you normally (not sideways). 
 
 Look at the card under the location you are playing, if there is one, without 
 
 showing anyone else. If this card is Bonnie or Clyde you must leave it there. 
 
 If this card is any other card, you may put the card in your hand or leave the 
 
 card where it is.
 2. If you played a meld, move the Crime Spree Car up 1 Location 
 
 (towards Gibson Louisiana). If you played a layoﬀ , move the Car up 
 
 or down 1 Location. Do not move the Car oﬀ the board! 
DISCARD (Mandatory)
After you have played all the cards you want to, you must discard any one card 
face up on the top of the FBI Files. Th is ends your turn.
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 3
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 3
03.12.2008 12:15:09 Uhr
03.12.2008 12:15:09 Uhr

ENDING A HAND
Play continues in a clockwise direction around the table until the hand ends. 
A hand can end in one of two ways: when any player discards their last card, or 
when the last card of the Case File is drawn. In the latter case, the player whose 
turn it is ﬁ nishes playing any cards they can, discarding normally, and then the 
hand ends. Th e hand is then scored.
SCORING
Cards left in your hand when the hand ends are ignored (that is, they don’t 
count against you). Each Evidence card played sideways in front of you is worth 
4 points; all other Evidence cards in front of you are worth 2 points each. Th e 
Bonnie and Clyde cards are worth 10 points each. 
BONUS: Th e player who ends the hand earns bonus points equal to the position 
where the Crime Spree Car is when the hand ends. For example, if the Crime 
Spree Car is on Sherman Texas, that player gets 2 extra points, but if the Crime 
Spree Car is on Grapevine Texas, that player gets 9 extra points. If the hand ended 
because the last card was drawn from the Case File, no bonus is awarded.
Shut Out: If you ended the hand and you have both Bonnie and Clyde cards in 
front of you, you have captured them! Congratulations, you score normally, but 
all other players score 0 points for that hand.
Th e game ends when one or more players have scored a total of 100 points or 
more. Th e winner is the player with the most points. If players tie with the most 
points, play another hand. Also play another hand if no player has 100 points or 
more. Begin each new hand with a new Setup. Do not forget to shuﬄ e in all the 
unrevealed Locations on the board from the previous hand, and to reposition the 
Crime Spree Car on Kaufman, Texas.
VARIANT
For a longer game, play until one player has scored over 200 points.
Illustrations: Claus Stephan and Martin Hoﬀ mann
Graphics: Mirko Suzuki
Rules by Mike Fitzgerald 
If you have any comments, questions, or 
suggestions, please write to us at:
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 45715, 
Rio Rancho, NM 87174, USA
E-Mail: RioGames@aol.com
© 2008 Rio Grande Games
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 4
bandc_rules_RZ.indd 4
03.12.2008 12:15:10 Uhr
03.12.2008 12:15:10 Uhr