Boomtown
A game by Bruno Cathala and Bruno Faidutti
Th ere’s gold in them hills! With that cry prospectors race westward and Boomtowns are established — the gold rush is on. In 
Boomtown, you must compete with your fellow prospectors in a mad scramble to ﬁ nd your fortune in gold, but watch out for 
highwaymen, card sharks and crooked politicians. Th ere are many ways to make a buck in Boomtown.
A Game For 3 to 5 players
Ages: 10 and up
Playing Time: 30 minutes
Components
60 cards (45 mining concessions and 15 events)
Two dice
5 mayor pawns
10 Boomtown tokens
Poker chips (in values 1 ‘white’, 5 ‘red’ and 10 ‘blue’) representing gold
Aim of the game
Th e players are prospectors, trying to ﬁ nd gold and get rich. Every turn, mining concessions are auctioned. Th en gold is found on 
some, depending on the die rolls. Players can also act as highwaymen, tavern owners, and politicians. Th rough many means are 
fortunes won. At the end of the game, the player with the most inﬂ uence, the best mines and the most gold wins.
Setting up the game 
Each player starts the game with 10 gold (in poker chips). Th e bank makes change when necessary.
All cards are shuﬄ ed and placed in a pile, face down, on the table. Th is is the drawing deck. Note: in a 3 player game, you can 
remove 15 cards randomly from the drawing deck, without looking at them, for a shorter game.
Th e two dice, the banks poker chips, the town tokens and the mayor pawns are placed near the drawing deck.
Th e ﬁ rst turn can start.
A game turn
Randomly determine the ﬁ rst player of the ﬁ rst turn. In following turns, the ﬁ rst player will be the winner of the last turn’s 
auction.
Drawing cards
Draw as many cards as there are players from the drawing deck and place them in a row, face up, on the table.
Note: on the ﬁ rst turn, all cards revealed must be mining concessions. If you draw some other cards, place them back in the deck, 
replace them with the ﬁ rst mines you draw, and reshuﬄ e the deck.
Bidding
Bidding starts with the ﬁ rst player, and proceeds clockwise. Th e ﬁ rst player can either pass, or bid one or more gold. Th en, 
each player on turn may either pass, or overbid the highest bidder. A player who passed is out of the auction and cannot enter 
it again. Th e bidding goes on until all players save one have passed. A player may not bid more gold than he possesses.
Note: In the very unlikely case of all players passing, the ﬁ rst player, who was the ﬁ rst to pass, is considered the highest bidder.
Paying Bids
With four or five players
Th e highest bidder pays the whole price to the player on his right. Th at player keeps half of it (rounded up) and then passes the 
rest to the player on his right. Th at player then keeps half of the money he received, (also rounded up) and gives the rest to his 
right neighbor, and so on. Th is goes on until there is nothing left to give to the player on the right.
Note: the highest bidder may never get back some of the money he paid. Th erefore, if his left neighbor receives two or more 
gold, he keeps everything he has been given.
With three players
Th e highest bidder pays the whole price to the player on his right, who keeps half of it (rounded up) and then pays the rest to 
his right neighbor. Th at player then keeps half of the money he received (also rounded up) and gives the rest to the bank.
Choosing cards
Th e highest bidder chooses one of the cards on sale. If it is a mine, he places it, face up, in front of him. If it is an event card, 
special rules apply (see Events, below). Once the highest bidder has chosen a card, the player on his left must choose one of 
the remaining cards. Th e choice continues to pass leftward until each player has taken one card. If a player takes a mining 
concession in a town whose mayor (see Mayors, below) is another player, he must pay to the mayor as much gold as the mayor 
has mines in this town.
Production
Once all the cards have been taken, the ﬁ rst player rolls the two dice.
Every mining concession whose production die equals the sum of the two dice rolled produces gold. Th e owner of the 
concession receives gold from the bank equal to the mine’s production value (number of gold pieces on the card). 
Having done this the turn ends and the next turn can start.
Dangerous Mine Cards
Note that some mines have diﬀ erent card art and indicate that they are 
dangerous. On a production roll of 2 or 12 these mines collapse and are 
removed from the game.
Mayors
Each player must keep all his mines face up, in clear view of all other players. 
Mines should be grouped by town — each town is color coded for convenience 
(Cactus Junction = green, Cold Mountain = purple, Coyote City = red, Dry 
Gulch = yellow, and San Narciso = blue).
Th e ﬁ rst player who owns two mines in the same town becomes the mayor of 
this town, and takes the corresponding mayor pawn (i.e. of the same color).
From now on, every time a player takes a mine in a town with a mayor, he must 
pay to the controlling player a fee equal to the number of mines the mayor owns 
in this same town.
If, at any time, a player has more mines in a town than the current mayor, no 
matter whether after normally taking a card on auction or after an event, this 
player becomes the new mayor and takes the mayor pawn from the former 
mayor. If a player becomes the new mayor by taking a mine, he must still pay 
the former mayor prior to taking the mayor pawn.
End of the game
Th e game ends when the drawing deck is exhausted and exhausted.
Once the last production roll is made, each player then reckons his score. A player’s score is calculated as follows:
Total gold (in poker chips)
+ the production value of all mines 
+ 5 per mayor pawn
Th e player with the highest score wins.
Production Die
Production Value
Town Name
Town’s Identifying Color
Anatomy of a Mining Concession 
Dangerous Mine Indicator

Events
Most events have an instant eﬀ ect and are discarded afterwards. Some however, (Saloon, Saloon Girls, Governor, New Vein) 
are placed along with the mines and have a lasting eﬀ ect. Others (Th e Telegraph and Mustang) must be kept by the player and 
may be used later in the game.
It can happen that a player has to choose a card that he cannot use — the Governor if he has no Mayor, or the Girls if he has 
no Saloon. In this case, the player keeps the card in front of him — it has no eﬀ ect until the player becomes Mayor of a town 
or takes a Saloon card.
Telegraph
Keep this card and use it when you want. Following any one production dice roll, you may 
change the result of one of the two dice. Th is card is then discarded.
Bankruptcy
If for any reason (payment to a mayor, an event card) you are required to pay more gold than you actually possess you must pay 
what you can. Th e player receiving the money receives no additional compensation. A player who is out of money is bankrupt 
and cannot bid on new mines until they have the gold to do so.
Credits
Editing: David K. Hurd and Amy Langlois
Graphics: Kara
Graphic Design: Lawrence Whalen Jr.
Deutsche Übersetzung durch Rüdiger Rinscheidt (German Design Group)
Traducción española de JC Alvarez y de Daniel Perez
한국 번역 Dive Dice
Japanese Translation by Takuya Ono 
日本語訳：小野卓也（U-more • Table Games in the World）
© 2004 Asmodee, France
© 2004 Face 2 Face Games, 
 
36 Th e Arcade
65 Weybosset Street
Providence, RI 02903
www.face2facegames.com
Card Shark
Play immediately. Each other player must pay the bank 4 gold. Th is card must be played 
immediately and is then discarded.
Dynamite
An opponent’s mine or saloon of your choice explodes and is removed from the game. Th is card 
must be played immediately and is then discarded.
Expropriation
Take a mine of your choice from another player. You can only take a mine in a town where you already have a 
concession. If the town has a mayor, you must still make payment. This card must be played immediately and is then 
discarded.
Governor
Place one of your mayor pawns on this card. Th is mayor is now governor. As long as this pawn 
is governor, the price that other players pay you when taking a mine in this town is doubled. If 
another player takes control of this mayor pawn, Governor is discarded.
Holdup
Choose a player and a number between 2 and 12 — the sum you are trying to steal. Roll the dice. 
If you roll this number or greater, you have robbed that player that amount of gold. If you roll 
less, the holdup fails and this card has no eﬀ ect. Th is card must be played immediately and is 
then discarded.
Mustang
Keep this card and use it later to choose your card immediately after the ﬁ rst player (the high 
bidder), instead of your normal clockwise turn. Turn order then returns to normal. Once used, 
this card is discarded.
New Vein
Place this card under one of your mines. From now on, the production value of this mine is 
increased by 3 gold. If this mine is dynamited or expropriated, the new vein goes with it. If placed 
upon a dangerous mine that later collapses, this card is discarded.
Saloon
Place this card in front of you with your mines and place a wooden town token of your choice 
upon it. From now on, each time a mine in the chosen town produces gold, its owner must pay 
you 2 gold that he spends in your saloon.
Saloon Girls
Place this card with one of your saloons. From now on, each time a mine in the saloon’s town 
produces gold, its owner must pay you 4 gold instead of 2. If the saloon is dynamited, this card 
is discarded.
Stagecoach Robbery
You receive 10 gold from the bank. Th is card must be played immediately and is then discarded.