A fast-paced gold search
for 2 - 4 players 
7 years and up.
Alexandre Emerit
TL 105129	
1/17 

	
	 Things have been a 	
	
little crazy since gold 
was found in the once sleepy village of Old Town! Once infected by the gold rush fever. 
Everyone from experienced gold miners, to hotel owners, are grabbing a few sticks of dyna-
mite and running to the ghost mine. They throw their dynamite sticks – BOOM, BANG!!! 
– into the mine every hour and blow the gold out of the mountain at any cost! Don‘t 
wait, start collecting! But be careful! Anyone who comes across a bat, snake, rat or ghost 
amongst the gold nuggets needs to get to safety quickly. And there are all sorts of other 
dangers lurking in the Wild West: the tense atmosphere means you might be challenged to 
a duel. And if the sheriff has you in his sights there‘s no escaping...
Boom, Bang, Gold is an exciting game with plenty of action, where speed and a good
eye are very important. The person who manages to collect the most nuggets in their
gold chest at the end of the „day“ wins the fast-paced hunt for gold.
G A M E M A T E R I A L
4 characters with gold chests,
4 sticks of
dynamite
1 pocket watch 
(lap timer)
160 tiles:
35x legal
gold nuggets
35x illegal 
gold nuggets
4 special tiles
(1x bat, 
1x snake, 
1x rat, 
1x ghost)
4 action tiles 
(1x pick, 
1x dynamite, 
1x revolver, 
1x sheriff‘s star)
4 shelves
82x boulders
1 gold mine 
(box base with insert 
for explosion effect)

Before the first game
Before the first game carefully punch out all the pieces from the tableau and put the 
characters with their gold chests together as illustrated.
P R E P A R A T I O N
Place the gold mine in the middle of the table. All players need to be able to reach it 
easily. Place all the tiles face down (i.e. with the boulder side facing up) in the gold mine 
and shuffle them well. Move the pointer of the pocket watch to 1 o‘clock.
Each player takes a stick of dynamite, one shelf and one character. Each character 
is protected against the effects of a certain special tile. (The special tiles are explained 
later):
Hank (The Hat) 
Harris: as the most 
experienced gold 
prospector far and 
wide, he knows that 
the best thing to pro-
tect you against bats’ 
in the deep, dark 
mine is a big hat.
Rattlesnake Ruby: 
Ruby usually spends 
her time catching 
snakes in the farmer‘s 
fields. Her thick cowboy 
boots protect against 
snakes in the mine too – 
after all you never know 
what you‘ll find!
Alma Anderson: 
when Alma isn‘t thro-
wing sticks of dynamite 
she‘s busy in the kitchen 
of her hotel. That‘s why 
she always has a bottle 
of rat poison with her,to 
protect herself against 
the nasty rodents.
Tombstone Tony: 
as the local undertaker, 
Tony isn‘t scared of the 
supernatural. Still, he 
takes his extra-bright oil 
lamp with him into the 
mine, so that he‘s com-
pletely protected against 
ghosts.

H O W T O P L AY
The player who is always running late places the pocket watch in front of them. 
Things are about to happen quickly, because everyone plays at the same time. 
A round consists of:
	 1. 	 Blast
	 2. 	 Gold search
	 3. 	 Play action tiles
	 4. 	 Securing gold and preparing the next round
Gold prospector‘s pledge
Before throwing your sticks of dynamite into the mine for the first time you must 
hold the dynamite sticks in your hand and recite the gold prospector‘s pledge:
◆I promise to only ever play with one hand.
◆I may only collect gold nuggets and action tiles that are face-up.
◆I will only take the tiles out of the mine one at a time, never several at the 
same time.
◆The first person to touch a face-up tile with their fingers gets it! I vow to 
respect this, even though we‘re in the Wild West.
◆In my search for gold nuggets and action tiles I may move other tiles but never 
turn them over!
◆I promise to take the warnings of other players about bats, rates, snakes and 
ghosts seriously.
◆If I get caught breaking this solemn gold prospector‘s pledge then I must 
throw all the gold nuggets I collected in this round back into the mine. 
The sheriff can lock me up and I will miss this round – hand on my heart 
(and my dynamite)!

	 1. Blast 
On the command „Boom, Bang, Gold“ all players throw their sticks of dynamite into the 
gold mine at the same time. This causes the tiles in the mine to bounce up, and some land 
with the gold nugget, boulder, special tile or action tile side face up, both in the mine or 
even outside it.
	 2. Gold search
Now all the players use one hand to collect as many gold nuggets and face-up 
action tiles as possible from the mine, and place them on their shelf in front of them. 
Gold nuggets and action tiles that have flown out of the mine can also be collected.
But make sure you respect the rules of the gold prospector‘s pledge!
Special tiles
There are all sorts of danger in the mine: Special tiles such as bats, snakes, rats or
ghosts! If the explosion in the mine turned over one or more of these tiles then they
stay in the mine and cannot be collected. Each special tile causes all players but 
one to pause for a moment.
If a player sees a special tile with their symbol (i.e. the symbol from which they are 
protected), they warn the other players and call out a warning about the symbol 
shown: „watch out, ...!“ While they may continue collecting gold nuggets and action 
tiles, all other players must quickly place both hands on their head and call out 
„help!“. Only after doing this may they continue collecting.
Example: The player with the character „Tombstone“ Tony sees a tile with a ghost,
and calls „watch out, ghost!“. All other players now need to quickly place both hands 
on their head and call out „help!“ before continuing to collect gold nuggets and 
action tiles.
Once all the face-up gold nuggets and action tiles have been collected the wild
scramble is over.

	 3. 	 Play action tiles
Now the action tiles are played in the following order:
1. Pick: You‘re very hardworking and may turn over 5 face-down tiles 
in the mine! If you uncover gold nuggets in the process you may place 
them on your shelf. All other tiles stay in the mine.
2. Dynamite: You were smart and took two sticks of dynamite with you. 
Take a stick of dynamite and throw it into the mine again. You may col-
lect all gold nuggets that are now face-up and put them on your shelf. 
All other tiles must remain where they are.
3. Sheriff‘s star: You are the sheriff and force all other players to put 
the illegal gold on their shelf back into the mine face down. Only you 
may keep your illegal gold.
4. Revolver: In the scramble for gold nuggets you clashed with another 
gold prospector. You challenge the player of your choice to a duel. 
Your duel partner must take 2 gold nuggets of their choice from their 
shelf and hide them in one or both fists. You may only choose one fist. 
If you find gold you may take it and place it on your shelf. If the fist 
is empty you go away empty handed. If your duel partner only has 
1 gold nugget on their shelf then this single tile is hidden in one fist. 
If nobody has any gold on their shelf you cannot challenge anyone 
to a duel.
Note: 
The order of the action tiles is shown on the back of the gold chests.
	 4. Securing gold and preparing the next round
Each player takes the gold nuggets remaining on their shelf and places them in their 
gold chest. This gold is now safe. Each player takes a stick of dynamite out of the mine. 
All played action tiles and all tiles that are outside the mine but not on a shelf are put 
back into the gold mine face down. Any tiles that are face-up in the mine are also 
turned back over. 
The player with the pocket watch moves the pointer forward one hour and passes it to 
the player to their left. The next round can begin!
legale 
gold
illegale 
gold

E N D O F T H E G A M E
Once the clock hands are set to 12 this round is played to the end.
Now all players count the gold nuggets in their gold chest. Each tile, regardless of 
whether it is legal or illegal gold, counts for 1 point. The player with the most points wins. 
If there is a tie the player with the most legal gold wins.
Action variations
The basic rules of the game apply, but with the following changes. 
If after the explosion someone discovers a special tile the following occurs:
• Bat: the player with Hank (The Hat) Harris calls „watch out, bat!“. Now all other 
players must first flail around with their hands around their head and call „go away!“ 
before continuing their search. While they are doing this the player with the character 
of Hank may continue collecting gold nuggets and action tiles.
• Snake: the player with Rattlesnake Ruby calls „watch out, snake!“. Now all other 
players must first clap their hands twice and call „hiss!“ before continuing their search. 
While they are doing this the player with the character of Ruby may continue collecting 
gold nuggets and action tiles.
• Rat: the player with Alma Anderson calls „watch out, rat!“. Now all other players must 
first put both their hands behind their back and call „squeak squeak!“ before continu-
ing their search. While they are doing this the player with the character of Alma may 
continue collecting gold nuggets and action tiles.
• Ghost: the player with Tombstone Tony calls „watch out, ghost!“. Now all other 
players must first put both hands over their eyes and call out „ooooh!“ before continu-
ing their search. While they are doing this the player with the character of Tony may 
continue collecting gold nuggets and action tiles.
© HABA-Spiele Bad Rodach 2017, Art.-Nr. 303337
Editorial: Antje Gleichmann
Short rules of the game
Alexandre Emerit (Author):
born 1977 in Paris, manages the en-
vironmental department of a nature 
reserve near Fontainebleau. He 
inherited his passion for games from 
his grandmother, who always loved 
playing card and dice games with 
her friends and family. He has been 
designing his own board games for 
the past two years. „Boom, Bang, 
Gold“ is his first published game. 
born 1981, studied illustration at 
the Münster University of Applied 
Sciences, and since graduating in 
2007 has moved back to his birth 
city of Bochum. As a freelance 
illustrator he has worked in a variety 
of fields: he illustrates children‘s 
books, school books and games, 
and regularly works for magazines 
and agencies.
Timo Grubing (Illustrator):

S H O R T R U L E S O F T H E G A M E
A I M O F T H E G A M E
• The player who collects the most gold by the end of the game wins.
P R E P A R A T I O N
• Place gold mine, filled with face-down shuffled tiles, in the center of the table
• Set the pocket watch to 1 o‘clock
• Each player receives: one stick of dynamite, one shelf and one character with gold 
chest
H O W T O P L AY
• The starting player receives the pocket watch
• Blast: Everyone throws their dynamite sticks into the gold mine at the same time.
• Gold search: everyone at the same time: use one hand to pick face-up tiles out of 
the mine and place them on your shelf.
• Special tiles (bat, rat, snake, and ghost): What is on the special tile? Call 
„watch out …!“. Other players: put their hands on their head and call out „help!“ 
before continuing to play . 
No more face-up tiles? The gold search is over
• Play action tiles:
1. Pick: turn over 5 tiles. Take the gold
2. Dynamite: throw 1 stick of dynamite in the mine again. Take the gold
3. Sheriff‘s star: all other players place illegal gold back into the mine
4. Revolver: duel with another player of your choice. Other player: hides 2 gold 
nuggets in one or both fists. Challenger: select one fist, take any gold discovered.
• Move gold from the shelf to the gold chest, take stick of dynamite and turn over all 
face-up tiles in the gold mine.
• Set pocket watch forward one hour and pass to the next player.
E N D O F T H E G A M E
The game ends after 12 rounds (12 o‘clock on the pocket watch).
Each gold = 1 point
The most points = winner, in the event of a tie the player with the most legal gold wins
WARNING:
CHOKING HAZARD - 
Small parts. Not for children under 3 years.
!