Finally, you have arrived at Boonlake. The abandoned region along the shore of the lake of the same name almost 
seems uninhabited; there is only a small group of people, watching over nature and trying to develop life according to 
their own ideas. The land has hardly been explored, but the gorgeous surroundings will provide valuable opportunities 
to improve the lives of Boonlake‘s inhabitants. On your turn, you have to choose one action, and all of you will benefit 
from it. Exploring, settling, breeding cattle, hiring, modernizing, building, sailing… 
What goals will you pursue? It‘s all up to you – in BOONLAKE.
Alexander Pfister
GAME MATERIALS
1 gameboard
1 action board
165 project cards
4 double-layer player boards
40 inhabitants 
(10 per player)
24 houses 
(6 per player)
16 settlements 
(4 per player)
20 cattle 
(5 per player)
8 boats 
(2 per player)
4 ships 
(1 per player)
16 production sites 
(stone, iron, loam, and wood; 4 per player)
4 100-/200-markers 
(1 per player)
16 scoring markers 
(4 per player)
12 player markers 
(3 per player)
10 solo tiles
7 action strips
16 scoring tiles
36 levers
1 starting player 
token
4 region markers
12 double-sided 
adhesive stickers
42 building tiles 
(incl. 10 starting tiles 
and 7 cattle pastures)
14 vases
62 coins 
(41x value 1; 
15x value 5; 
6x value 20)
What to do before the first game
The back page of the instruction booklet (p. 24) shows how to put together the double-
layer boards as well as the action board. After punching out the production sites from 
each of the double-layer boards, along with the 100-/200-markers and coins from the 
action board, don’t throw these parts away. They are needed for the game! 
!

SET-UP OF THE GAME
Put the 
gameboard 
on the table.
Sort the 42 building tiles by their backs. Stack the 
7 building tiles showing a cattle pasture on both sides 
and put them next to the gameboard.
Keep the vases, the coins, 
and the levers next to the 
gameboard as a supply.
Shuffle the project cards and form 
a pile that you put next to the 
gameboard. Then each player draws 
6 cards and takes them into their 
hand.
Lay the action board next to the 
gameboard. Then mix the 7 action 
strips and put them on the action 
board, in random order.
Now place building tiles on the gameboard, according to the number 
of players:
1 or 2 players: Mix the 6 building tiles showing the symbol 
 on 
the back, and put them face up on the 6 spaces on the gameboard 
with the matching symbol. Remove the 4 building tiles showing one 
of the symbols 
 from the game.
3 players: Mix the 8 building tiles showing one of the symbols 
 on the back, and put them face up on the 8 spaces on 
the gameboard with one of the matching symbols*. Remove the 
2 building tiles showing the symbol 
 from the game.
4 players: Mix the 10 building tiles showing one of the symbols 
 on the back, and put them face up on the 
10 spaces on the gameboard with one of the matching symbols*.
* You don’t have to put a tile on a space that shows the same symbol 
(
).
Mix the 
building tiles 
with the 
gray backs 
and put 
them out 
ready as a 
face-down 
mound.
Add one region 
marker to each 
of the 4 regions.
1.
2.
6.
8.
7.
4.
Example of the set-up for 3 players
3.
2.
3.
6.
7.
4.
8.

Then take the 4 scoring 
markers and the 
100-/200-marker of your 
color, plus 4 production 
sites (1 of each type), 
and put them next to 
your player board.
Now each player chooses one of their own pro­
duction sites and places it – with the side facing 
up that shows 1 resource – in the appropriate 
recess at the top left of their own player board.
Tip: Make your choice based on the resources required by 
your hand cards or on the scoring tile you have chosen!
Put the remaining boards, 
wooden parts, markers, and 
production sites back into 
the box.
The solo tiles are 
used in the solo 
game only. They 
are explained from 
p. 15 on.
Mix the scoring tiles; each player takes 2 of them. Choose 1 of them and put it in the 
area of your color at the bottom end of the gameboard.
Before making this decision, you are explicitly allowed to look at your own hand 
cards. In the one-, two- or three-player game, put 1 random scoring tile in each of 
the unoccupied areas (i.e., there are always 4 scoring tiles in play). Put the remaining 
scoring tiles back into the box.
Now everybody chooses one color and takes the color-matching wooden pieces:
a)	6 houses, 4 settlements, and 5 cattle. These parts need to cover the 
appropriate recesses in the player board.
b)	10 inhabitants: 
-	3 inhabitants are placed on the ranch at the bottom left of the player board,
- 2 inhabitants are placed in the two applicable recesses next to the houses,
- 5 inhabitants are put in the supply.
c)	1 ship, to be placed on the first space (with 1-2 players) or third space (with 
3-4 players) of the river on the gameboard.
d)	2 boats, to be placed on the canal on one’s own player board, so that they 
are in the area of wood production.
e)	3 player markers. One is put on the starting space of the victory-point track, 
one on the coin track (showing 2 coins), and one on the card track (showing 
2 cards) on the gameboard.
11.
14.
15.
Each player takes one 
player board and puts 
it in front of them 
with the side facing up 
as shown below. The 
back side is used in 
the solo game only.
The player who last 
traveled to a place 
with less than 100 
inhabitants gets the 
starting player token 
and 6 coins; the next 
player in clockwise 
order gets 7 coins; in 
the 3- or 4-player game, 
everybody else gets 
8 coins.
9.
13.
10.
1.
9.
10D
10a
10b
10C
Ranch
11.
14.

Course of the game
Boonlake is played over 2 rounds. A round ends once somebody moves their own ship onto the last river space on the 
gameboard. When this happens, as well as after about half the round, an interim scoring takes place.
After the second round, the game ends, followed by the fourth interim scoring and then by the final scoring.
The player with the starting player token begins the game; after that, the other players take turns in clockwise order.
On each of your turns, you execute the following 3 phases in this order:
Phase A: Choose 1 action and carry it out
Phase B: Advance your ship along the river
Phase C: Push the action strips together
After that, the next player in clockwise order has their turn.
Phase A: Choose 1 action and carry it out
Choose one of the action strips from the action board and put it in the area at the very bottom of the action board. 
If you choose one of the two bottom strips, you have to move your victory-point marker as many spaces back as 
indicated for that row. After that, you may carry out all effects depicted on the action strip.
Now (after playing a card or discarding it to get 2 
coins or forgoing either of these options), carry out 
all effects shown in the middle of the strip, left of 
the arrow. Execute them from left to right. You may 
omit some of the effects.
After that, all players (yourself 
included) may carry out the effect 
to the right side of the arrow. 
(Unless stated otherwise, these 
effects can already be executed by 
the others while the active player is 
still carrying out the effects to the 
left of the arrow).
Exception: With the “Pioneer” 
action, only the other players may 
carry out this effect, as indicated by 
the symbol 
.
First, you may play 1 card of the kind shown (day, sunset, or night) after 
paying its cost,
OR
you may put it on the discard pile to get 2 coins. 
You may forgo both options if you have no card of this kind or don’t want to 
play / discard a card.
The effects and the playing of 
cards are described in more 
detail from p. 6 on.
Exception: With the 
“Builder” action, you 
receive 3 coins instead.

Phase B: Advance your ship along the river
After carrying out the action, you may move your ship along the river. The 
space you took the action strip from indicates the maximum number 
of steps you may move your ship. You obtain the bonus of the space on 
which your ship ends its movement.
For ship movement, the following rules apply:
•	You may move your ship only up to as many steps as the number indicates on the just-uncovered space of the action 
board. You may allow steps to go to waste, but you have to advance your ship at least 1 step.
•	Harbors 
 can berth any number of ships. You don’t have to stop in a harbor.
•	All other spaces may contain only 1 ship at a time.
•	Spaces with other ships are skipped over and are not included in the count – 
unless it is a harbor 
; these spaces are always included in the count.
•	You may move along the river only from the top down, and may never turn 
around.
•	You cannot move beyond the final space. Once your ship moves onto the 
final river space, the current round ends (but you still complete this phase). 
Then, an interim scoring takes place.
•	When you reach the river’s fork in the first round, you take the upper arm; in 
the second round, the lower arm.
•	If, during a round, you are the first player to move your ship across a lock, 
your turn is followed immediately by an interim scoring that all players 
take part in. After that, the game continues in clockwise order. If another 
player has already crossed this lock before you, you do not trigger an interim 
scoring! The locks themselves are not considered as spaces.
Rewards along the river
Depending on where the movement of your ship ends, you receive one of the following rewards:
	
Take X coins from the supply.
	
Draw X cards.
	
Take X inhabitants in your color from the supply and place them on your ranch.
You can choose whether to take 1 vase or to build 1 production site on your player board. To do the 
latter, you can either put a level-1 production site in the appropriate recess or turn over an already-
placed site onto its back. The level cannot be increased to more than 2.
Phase C: Push the 
action strips together
Push the action strips on the action board up 
to close the gap. After that, there is again one 
action strip in each row. 
	
Take 1 vase.
	
Gain X victory points.
1st round
2nd round

EFFECTS AND ACTIONS
What follows are the different effects and actions described in more detail. Unless stated otherwise, the following 
rules apply:
•	You always take coins and inhabitants from the supply. When you pay with them or give them up, you put them 
back into the supply.
•	You can take the inhabitants from the recesses of your player board only through the tier bonus (see p. 10). They are 
not part of the supply.
•	You collect inhabitants on your ranch at the bottom left of your board. If an effect forces you to give up inhabitants, 
you need to take these from your ranch.
•	You can only get inhabitants in your color from the supply.
•	If you are allowed to draw 1 or more cards, you have to draw these from the draw pile. If the draw pile is depleted, 
shuffle the discard pile and use it as the new draw pile. Whenever you discard a card, you put it on the discard pile.
•	When you gain or lose victory points, you move your marker on the victory-point track the accordant number of 
spaces forward or backward. Your victory-point marker can go below 0. As soon as your victory-point marker has 
completed the entire track, you put your 100-marker on your player board; once it completes the track a second 
time, you flip it over (so it becomes a 200-marker). 
•	When you are allowed to build a production site, this means that you may either put a production site showing 
1 resource (level 1) in the appropriate recess of your player board or turn over an already-placed production site so 
that it shows 2 resources.
•	Normally, players can act in parallel during an action (exceptions are the “Settle” and “Cattle-breeding” actions 
where players act one after another). If somebody wants to play in order during a partial action, they have to 
announce this; in this case, players carry out this partial action in clockwise order, beginning with the player who has 
just chosen the action strip.
•	If you are supposed to get something from the supply that is no longer available there, please make do with 
something else. Only the wooden pieces are limited; in this case, you go away empty-handed. If you are allowed 
to put a house on the gameboard and you have none left on your player board but one has already been removed 
from the game, you may use this one. 
Special effects: Play a CARd, Explore, Develop, Upgrade 
Several actions refer to the following effects: 
Play a card
If an effect enables you to play a card, you may lay out a project card from your hand in front of you, provided you can 
settle the costs. Keep all the cards you have played as a display next to your player board.
With some of these effects, you may instead discard a card from your hand in order to get 2 coins. In this case, put the 
card on the discard pile.
The cost of a card consists of a combination of vases, coins, and resources.
You have to pay 
the coins shown 
into the supply.
You have to put the 
vase depicted back 
into the supply.
Production sites produce 1 resource of the type depicted whenever you need 
it. During the set-up of the game, you already built one level-1 production 
site in one of the 4 locations on your player board. Various effects allow you 
to build additional production sites. To do so, you either put a new level-1 
production site in the appropriate recess or turn over an already-placed 
production site so that it shows 2 resources. The latter then always produces 
2 resources of the applicable type.
The availability of the resources is “virtual”; this means they are not produced in the form of markers or such.
You need to be able to “pay” the 
resource costs by showing proof 
of having these resources on your 
production sites and your boats 
(that means, they need to be 
available to you, but you don’t 
have to give them up).
Each of the project 
cards belongs to one 
kind: day 
, sunset 
 
or night 
. With some 
effects, you may play 
(or discard) only cards 
of a specific kind.
Unknown
May0r
Bank

Your 2 boats also make resources available to you – each boat gives you 1 resource of the type next 
to the canal space where it currently is. At any time, you may move your boats any number of steps 
downstream (to the right) or upstream (to the left) in order to change their positions (and thereby, 
the resource you gain). But before you can move 1 boat any number of steps upstream (to the left), 
you need to pay 2 coins. Downstream moves are for free. 
Consequently, at the beginning of the game, you have 3 resources at your disposal: 1 resource of the type shown 
next to the first production site you built, plus 2 wood. (However, you can move your boats elsewhere so that you 
have different resources at your disposal.)
In order to be able to settle any resource costs, you need to have at least the resources indicated available; i.e., they 
are not “spent.” 
A few effects enable you to lower the resource costs of a card. If you use such an effect, the resource costs 
decrease by 1 resource of a type of your choice (e.g., 2 iron instead of 3 iron, or 0 wood instead of 1 wood). 
Example: Monica wants to play this card. To do so, she needs 2 coins, 2 loam, and 1 stone. 
She has 1 production site next to the loam. She pays 2 coins and moves 1 boat downstream 
to the loam.
She has to move the other boat 
upstream to the stone; for this, 
she pays 2 coins. Now she has 
all the resources required at her 
disposal and can put the card in 
front of her. 
 
Example: Maggie wants to play this card. To do so, she needs 4 loam and 2 stone. She has 
the level-2 loam production site (which gives her 2 loam) and a production site that gives 
her 1 stone. 
One boat is next to the loam; 
the other one, next to the iron. 
She moves 1 boat upstream 
(after paying 2 coins) to the 
loam and then activates a lever 
effect that allows her to have 
1 resource less available. Now 
she can put the card in front of 
her. She could also have moved 
the boat to the stone.
Card effects 
All project cards show effects that occur at certain times in the game. 
Execute this effect immediately when playing the card.
Execute this effect at the end of the game.
These effects are permanent effects that have an impact on you during the game. 
After playing cards that show only effects, you can pile these up; normally, they are only used again at the end of the 
game, for the final scoring. Fan out the other cards you have played next to your player board.
Further rules regarding specific effects are explained from p. 19 on. 
Blacksmith
Bank

Special projects on scoring tiles
The upper area of each of the 4 scoring tiles on the gameboard depicts a 
special project. Instead of playing a card from your hand, you may settle 
the costs shown (coins + resources) for 1 of these projects. Each of the 
projects counts as all 3 kinds (day, sunset, night). Effects referring to cards 
apply to these projects, too (if you may play a card for 1 coin less, for 
example, this privilege applies, too).
After settling the costs, you take 2 of your inhabitants from the supply (and place them in 
the area at the bottom left of your board), earn the victory points indicated, and advance 
your marker 1 space on the corresponding income track (coin track or card track). After 
that, you need to place 1 of the two inhabitants you just got on the color-matching 
space above the project (for indicating that you have realized it). There may be multiple 
inhabitants of different players above each space; however, you may realize each of these 
projects only once per game. 
If you realize the project on the scoring tile you chose during the initial set-up, you gain twice as many victory points. 
As a reminder, your space shows a “x2” symbol.
The lower half of the scoring tile is irrelevant for the realization of the project; it becomes important only at the 
interim scorings. 
Example: Joanne may play a card; instead, she decides to realize the project on the scoring tile shown above. For 
this, she pays 13 coins, and she needs to have 2 loam and 3 iron at her disposal. She gets 2 inhabitants (and places 
1 of them on the space of her color above the project), advances her marker 1 space on the card track, and earns 
8 victory points. Since this is the scoring tile that she chose during the set-up of the game, she gets another 
8 victory points. 
Explore
When you explore, you add new building tiles to the gameboard. 
In order to explore, you proceed as follows:
1)	Reveal a gray building tile from the mound.
2) Put the building tile on an unoccupied space on the gameboard that is adjacent to another building tile or is 
connected via a bridge with an already-placed building tile. Cattle pastures also count as building tiles; that means 
you may also place a new tile adjacent to them.
In this context, it is irrelevant whether there are presences (cattle, inhabitants, houses or settlements) on the 
adjacent building tile or not.
3) Depending on the space you have chosen, you receive the reward indicated: 
Take X coins		
	
	
Draw X cards	
	
	
	
Take 1 inhabitant
Build 1 production site next to this resource. Put a new level-1 production site in the 
corresponding recess or turn the production site over so that it shows 2 resources. 
If a production site is at level 2 already, the effect goes to waste. 
If all spaces on the gameboard are already occupied, you get 2 coins instead for each unplaced tile.
 
Example: Through the “Hire” action, 
Frances may explore once. She reveals 
a building tile from the mound and 
chooses this space. For this, she gets 
2 coins.
The spaces 
between which 
the ford runs are 
also considered 
adjacent!

Develop
If an effect allows you to develop, you may place 
1 inhabitant from your ranch on an unoccupied 
building site. Each building tile (except for cattle 
pastures) contains 1 or 2 sites. 
	
One building site may hold no more than 1 inhabitant or 1 house or 1 settlement; if a building tile contains 2 sites, 
these may also belong to different players.
Cattle pastures may never contain inhabitants.
In order to develop, you carry out the following steps:
1)	Choose an unoccupied building site on a building tile on the gameboard.
2) Place one inhabitant from your ranch on this building site. If the site indicates costs, you have to pay these. 
If it depicts rewards, you take these immediately. 
You find an overview of the costs and rewards on p 23/24.
Example: Elizabeth may develop once. She places one inhabitant from her 
ranch on this building site. For this, she has to pay 4 coins; in return, she 
may advance her marker 1 space on the coin track. 
 
Upgrade
If an effect allows you to upgrade, you have 2 options: You may either upgrade 1 inhabitant to a house or upgrade 
1 house to a settlement.
Upgrading 1 inhabitant to a house 
Carry out the following steps:
1)	Choose 1 of your inhabitants on a building site that you want to upgrade.
2) Give up 1 inhabitant from your ranch.
3) Replace the just-chosen inhabitant by a house from the topmost non-vacated tier of your player board. If this 
completely empties out the first or second tier of your board, you gain the tier bonus (see p. 10). Put the replaced 
inhabitant back into the supply. 
By removing houses from your player board, you unlock income, which you’ll get at each interim scoring.
If you have no house left on your board, take instead one of your houses that was removed from the game (e.g., by 
upgrading a house to a settlement). If all 6 of your houses are on the gameboard, you cannot use this effect. 
Upgrading 1 house to a settlement
Carry out the following steps:
1) Choose 1 of your houses on a building site that you want to upgrade. It has to be adjacent to at least 3 presences 
(this can be inhabitants, houses, settlements, and cattle). In this context, it is irrelevant who owns these 
presences. All presences on the same building tile and on neighboring building tiles are considered 
“adjacent” (building tiles that are connected by bridges count, too).
2) Give up 2 inhabitants from your ranch.
3) If this is the third settlement you want to build, you have to give up 1 additional inhabitant or 4 victory points. If it 
is the fourth settlement, you have to give up even 2 additional inhabitants, or you may substitute one or both 
by giving up 4 victory points per inhabitant. You always may give up victory points voluntarily, even if you 
have the inhabitants required on your ranch. 
Building sites
Reward

4)	Replace the chosen house by the topmost settlement of your player board. If this completely empties out the 
second tier of your board, you gain the tier bonus (see below). Put the removed house next to the gameboard 
(don’t put it back on your board).
5) If you have already built another settlement in the region where you build this settlement, you have 
to give up 5 victory points. The regions are the 4 areas on the gameboard that are connected by 
bridges: Boonlake, Southern, New Hope, and Unknown.
Just as houses, settlements can also increase your income at the interim scorings.
If you have already built 4 settlements, you cannot build another one.
Example: Tina upgrades this house to a settlement. She is allowed to do this since 
there are at least 3 presences adjacent. This is the third settlement she is building; 
consequently, she has to give up 1 additional inhabitant. Since she has only 
2 inhabitants at her ranch, she gives these up and additionally loses 4 victory 
points; in return, she may build her settlement and remove the house.
Tier bonus
If you manage to remove all the wooden pieces from the top tier of 
your player board (2 houses and 1 cattle), you may immediately place 
the inhabitant to the left of this tier on your ranch. You may use this 
inhabitant with immediate effect. You can do the same with the second 
inhabitant, once you have managed to empty out the second tier (that 
means you have removed 4 houses, 1 settlement, and 2 cattle). These 
removals give you victory points in each income phase of the interim 
scorings. 
The Actions
In the following, the actions are explained in detail: 
 card, or discard one to 
get 2 coins. 
After that, you may explore twice, and then either 
develop once or upgrade once.
 card, or 
discard one to get 2 coins.
Then you may develop once or upgrade 
once. 
All the others (not you!) may draw 
2 cards, and then play 1 card of any 
kind from their hand, or discard it 
to get 2 coins. 
After that, all players – beginning with 
you and then continuing clockwise – may 
develop once or upgrade once or play 1 card 
of any kind (or discard it to get 2 coins).
Pioneer
Settle

 card, or discard one to 
get 2 coins. Then you may put 1 cattle pasture on an 
unoccupied space of the gameboard that is adjacent to 
a building tile (also beyond bridges) and take the reward 
indicated there (as with the Explore effect).
If there is no cattle pasture left in the supply, or if all 
spaces are occupied, this effect goes to waste and you 
get 2 coins instead.
 card, or discard one 
to get 2 coins.
Then you choose one of the 4 regions (Boonlake, 
Unknown, New Hope, or Southern) whose reward 
on the region label has not yet been covered 
with a region marker. Put a region marker on the 
reward of the chosen region and gain the reward 
(coins, cards or victory points). 
Example: Petra chooses the Boonlake region and puts the region marker on the reward 
(4 coins) that she gets right away. Every presence in New Hope, Southern, and Unknown 
gives her 1 coin. All the other players also get 1 coin per presence in New Hope, Southern, 
and Unknown; presences in Boonlake don’t give them any coins.
In order to place 1 cattle, you do the following: 
1)	Choose any cattle pasture on the gameboard that contains no more than 3 cattle.
2) Give up 1/2/3/4 inhabitants from your ranch if this pasture contains 0/1/2/3 cattle.
3) If this is the fourth cattle overall that you want to place, you have to give up 1 additional inhabitant or 4 victory 
points. If it is your fifth cattle overall, you have to give up even 2 additional inhabitants or substitute one or both 
by giving up 4 victory points per inhabitant. You may voluntarily give up victory points instead of inhabitants, 
even if you have the inhabitants required on your ranch.
4) Now place the topmost cattle from your player board on the pasture (if this empties out the first or second tier, 
you gain the tier bonus, see p. 10).
5) Take 2 coins for each house (no matter who owns 
it) on a building tile that is adjacent to the chosen 
cattle pasture. 
By removing cattle from your board, you increase your income that you get at each interim scoring. 
After that, all players – beginning with 
you and then continuing clockwise – may 
either place 1 cattle or play 1 card of any 
kind (or discard it to get 2 coins).
After that, the other 3 regions are 
scored for all players (yourself included). 
Everybody gets 1 coin for each of their 
presences (inhabitant, house, settlement 
or cattle) in these 3 regions.
For this scoring, it is irrelevant whether 
any region labels were covered during a 
previous region scoring.
Cattle-breeding
Region scoring

 card, 
or discard one to get 2 coins.
Then you may take 1 inhabitant and 
explore once. 
In contrast to the other actions, you get 3 coins at the 
beginning of the action (instead of playing 1 card, or 
discarding it to get 2 coins).
Then you may either play 1 card of any kind or draw 
2 cards.
To take 1 inhabitant, you are not allowed to “mix” (e.g., giving up 2 cards and 1 coin). However, to take several 
inhabitants, you may pay differently for each one (e.g., 6 cards and 3 coins for 3 inhabitants). 
After that, as often as they want, all players 
may pay 3 coins or discard 3 cards in order 
to take 1 inhabitant from the supply and 
place this inhabitant on their ranch.
After that, all players may 
play 1 card of any kind (or 
discard it to get 2 coins).
Hire
Builder
 card, 
or discard one to get 2 coins.
Then you may modernize once. 
So, if you choose this action, you can modernize once or twice; all the others can do this only once.
Modernize
Choose one of the unoccupied spaces in the modernization area of your player board. Then pay 
the coins indicated in order to take 1 lever tile from the supply and put it in the recess; place it in 
such a way that the reward at the bottom remains visible.
Effects through modernization
Every modernization shows an effect or a reward that you may execute at any time (also during an action or an 
effect!). Sometimes, a specific condition needs to be met for this.
To do this, you move the lever down and carry out the effect. At every interim scoring, you move the levers up again, 
so you will be allowed to use them again later on.
You find a detailed explanation of the effects on pages 21/22. 
After that, all players may modernize once, 
but they have to give up 1 inhabitant for that. 
Whoever is not able or willing to do so may 
draw 1 card instead.
Progress

Interim Scoring & Final Scoring
There are 3 locks depicted along the river on the gameboard. Every time in a round when a player is the first (!) to 
move a ship across one of these locks, they take the reward on the river, and then an interim scoring takes place 
immediately. Over the entire course of the game, there are 4 such scorings: 2 scorings in the first round and 2 scorings 
in the second round. After the second interim scoring in the second round, there is also a final scoring. The player who 
then has the most victory points wins the game.
Important: If your ship crosses a lock that has already been passed by another ship in this round, you don’t trigger an 
interim scoring!
Important: The first 3 interim scorings are always conducted 
immediately. The last interim scoring (at the end of the second round) is 
an exception: It is triggered when somebody moves onto the last river 
space; but in this case, the current round continues until all players have 
had the same number of opportunities to choose an action (that means, 
until the player to the right of the player with the starting player token 
has had their turn). Only then do you conduct the last interim scoring 
and, right after that, the final scoring! 
interim Scoring 
All players take part in the interim scoring (not just the player 
who crossed the lock!). It consists of the following 5 steps; 
each step is resolved by all players simultaneously. 
Once or, better, twice, all players may either play 1 card of any kind (discarding it to get 2 coins is not 
allowed!) or upgrade (developing is not allowed!). You may also play 1 card and upgrade once.
Now all players must score for one of the 4 scoring tiles. To do so, 
a.	take – at the 1st/2nd/3rd/4th interim scoring – the scoring marker of your color that shows 
1/2/3/4 victory points;
b. choose one of the 4 scoring tiles on the gameboard, below which there isn’t any of your scoring 
markers yet;
c. put the scoring marker on the space of your color and earn the points indicated on the scoring tile if 
you meet the condition; otherwise, you subtract these points. If it is the scoring tile that you chose 
during the game set-up, these plus points or minus points are doubled (as a reminder, your scoring 
space shows a “x2” symbol). 
Each scoring tile shows a condition and 4 values that refer to the 4 interim scorings. At the first interim scoring, you 
need to fulfill the condition with the first value; at the second interim scoring, the condition with the second value, 
and so on. Over the course of the game, fulfilling the scoring tiles becomes more difficult.
You must score for one scoring tile even if you cannot fulfill the condition. 
Example: In order to meet the condition on this scoring tile, Peter’s 
marker on the card track needs to have advanced 1/2/4/7 spaces by the 
1st/2nd/3rd/4th interim scoring. 
Now all players receive income, pictured by the wagon. It consists of 3 parts:
1.	Receive income according to the positions of your markers on the two income tracks (coins and cards, 
or victory points).
2. Receive coins and victory points for all vacated spaces (inhabitants as the result of a tier bonus, houses, 
settlements, cattle) on your player board.
3. Cattle scoring: For each of your cattle on the gameboard, you earn 1 victory point per settlement on 
the adjacent building tiles (also those beyond bridges). If, for example, 3 settlements are adjacent to 
one of your cattle, you earn 3 victory points for that.
Important! At the last interim scoring, players get only the victory points; cards and coins go to waste! 

Example: For their marker on the coin track and 
the one on the card track, Tino gets 5 coins and 
1 victory point, plus 3 cards. For their player 
board, they get 5 coins and 4 victory points (and, 
possibly, additional victory points for settlements 
adjacent to the cattle they ha placed). 
Move all the levers you have used back up again. 
For every lever you have not used, you earn 1 victory point. 
Then remove all the region markers that have been placed on 
rewards of region labels (that means, they can be chosen again 
at the region scoring).
Important! If this has been the second interim scoring, the first round 
ends. In this case, all ships are moved back along the ford according to 
the number of players, until they arrive at their starting space for the 
second round. (In the second round of the four-player game, the ships 
start further ahead on the river than with two or three players.)
If this has been the fourth interim scoring, now the final scoring takes 
place. Keep in mind that the fourth interim scoring is triggered only 
when one ship has moved onto the last space and all players have had 
the same number of turns!
As soon as all players have completed these steps at the first, second, 
or third interim scoring, the game continues in clockwise order. 
Final Scoring
At the end of the second round, after the last 
interim scoring, a final scoring takes place. For 
this, execute the following steps in this order:
If you have 4 to 6 levers on your player board, you earn 2 victory points per lever.
If you have 7 or more levers, you even earn 3 victory points per lever on your board 
(e.g., 21 victory points for 7 levers). 
You earn victory points for each of the cards you have played (according to the number shown on the 
symbol). 
For each recess in the third tier of your board from which you removed a wooden piece, 
you earn 2 victory points.
For each recess in the fourth tier of your board from which you removed a wooden piece, 
you earn 4 victory points.
For each recess in the fifth tier of your board from which you removed a wooden piece, 
you earn 6 victory points. 
Leftover coins and cards don’t get you any victory points. 
The player who now has the most victory points wins the game! In case of a tie, all the tied players win. 

Solo mode
You can also play Boonlake alone. In this case, you play against a legend of Boonlake: the Wise Eminence. 
Set-up of the Game
Set the game up as usual – as for the two-player game. However, the set-up for the Wise Eminence is a bit different. 
For the Wise Eminence, take the back of a player board and lay it out for them.
 
Then choose a color for the Wise Eminence and place 
the cattle, the houses, and the settlements on the 
appropriate spaces of their board.
Put a marker of their color on the first space of the cactus 
track and another marker of their color on space “0” 
of the victory-point track. The Wise Eminence has no 
markers on the income tracks.
Put the Wise Eminence’s ship next to your ship on the 
starting space of the two-player game. Additionally, 
the Wise Eminence gets the starting player token 
(consequently, you start with 7 coins).
Put the 100-/200-marker next to their board.
The Wise Eminence never gets any cards or coins. The inhabitants, boats, and 
scoring markers of their color as well as the production sites are not needed. 
During the set-up, reveal a random scoring tile for the Wise Eminence. 
Choose a difficulty level and randomly remove the respective number of tiles 
of the given type(s) from the 10 solo tiles. 
Easy 
 Remove 4 B-tiles
Medium 
 Remove 1 A-tiles and 3 B-tiles
Challenge 
 Remove 2 A-tiles and 2 B-tiles
Difficult 
 Remove 3 A-tiles and 1 B-tiles
Very difficult 
 Remove 4 A-tiles
Mix the remaining 6 solo tiles in a random orientation of the backs and put them face down next to the Wise 
Eminence’s board. 
Course of the Game
The Wise Eminence and you alternate turns. The Wise Eminence begins and carries out the first action.
Every time the Wise Eminence has a turn, you reveal the top tile from the solo stack for them and orient it in an 
upright position (so that the numbers can be read correctly). Then you carry out 2 effects for the Wise Eminence: first, 
the one in the upper half; then, the one in the lower half (where they choose an action strip and carry out the action).
After that, you advance the Wise Eminence’s ship as many steps as the space of the chosen action strip shows.
If the solo stack is depleted, mix the 6 tiles in a random orientation of the backs and put them out again as a new 
stack. 
Choosing a location
For sundry effects, the Wise Eminence has to choose a location on the gameboard. In this case, the preferred location 
is determined randomly; to this end, they take the number in the corner of the solo tile that matches their position 
on the top tile of the solo stack. 
Example: Wolfgang has revealed the tile on the left for the Wise Eminence; 
the solo stack is to its right. For an effect, the Wise Eminence has to choose a 
location. Since the silhouette on the right tile is at the bottom left, the location 
with the number 13 becomes their preferred location

If the stack of solo tiles is depleted and the Wise Eminence has to choose a location, they always take 
the number in the upper left corner of the solo tile. A reminder for this is also shown at the upper left 
of the solo board. 
Each number stands for a specific space on the gameboard. If the Wise Eminence can carry out 
the effect at their preferred location, they do so. Otherwise, they take the next higher space. If 
carrying out the effect isn’t possible here either, they take the next higher space again, and so on.
If the effect on space 33 cannot be carried out, the Wise Eminence skips to space 1.
As soon as it is possible, they carry out the effect there (and ends the search for a location). 
Example: An effect allows the Wise Eminence to place a building tile. Their preferred location is the one with the 
number 13, but there is already a tile there, just as on space 14. Space 15, however, is unoccupied; therefore, they 
place the building tile on space 15. 
In the rare case that the Wise Eminence doesn’t find any location at all where they can carry out the effect, this effect 
goes to waste. 
The Wise Eminence’s Turn
The Wise Eminence ignores your turns completely. The only exception is 
the region scoring, which is explained in detail below. Besides this, you 
and the Wise Eminence conduct the interim scorings together.
On the Wise Eminence’s turn, you reveal the top tile from the solo stack 
for them, orient it in an upright position, and carry out the action effects 
for them as follows:
A)	First, the Wise Eminence looks at the bottommost of the 7 action strips on the action board.
•	If it shows the “Settle” action, they may immediately build 1 structure (see below). If it is a B-tile, they may even 
build 2 structures.
•	If it shows the “Cattle-breeding” action, they immediately place 1 cattle (see below). If it is a B-tile, they 
additionally advance their marker 1 space on the cactus track.
•	In all other cases, they advance their marker 1 space on the cactus track; if it is a B-tile, even 2 spaces. 
B)	After that, the Wise Eminence chooses one of the 3 actions 
depicted on the solo tile, always opting for the action of the action 
strip that is furthest up on the action board. Then the action strip 
is placed at the very bottom of the action board, as usual. 
Example: The Wise Eminence chooses “Builder,” “Region Scoring” or 
“Settle” – depending on which of these action strips is furthest up!
Then they carry out the effect shown on the solo tile (the effects are explained in detail below). You now may carry 
out the right part of the action strip (that means that you also benefit from the Wise Eminence’s actions!).
Example: The Wise Eminence has chosen the “Builder” action, since the action strip was lying further up than those 
with the “Settle” and “Region scoring”. They may advance their marker 1 space on the cactus track. You may, as 
usual, play 1 card, or discard it to get 2 coins. 

Overview of the Effects
If the Wise Eminence chooses “Builder” or “Progress,” they advance their marker 1 space on the 
cactus track. On B-tiles, they even advance their marker 2 spaces. 
With the “Hire” action, they draw a building tile and choose a location for it 
 (adjacent to at least 
1 building tile). After that, they advance their marker 1 space on the cactus track; on B-tiles, even 2 spaces. 
With the “Pioneer” action, they draw a building tile twice and choose a location for each of them 
(adjacent to at least 1 building tile), if possible. After that, they place the top house from their board on the 
second building tile they have placed. If this tile contains 2 sites, they choose the upper one. On B-tiles, He 
additionally advances His marker 1 space on the cactus track. 
With the “Cattle-breeding” action, they choose a location 
 (adjacent to at least 1 building tile) and lay 
out a cattle pasture there, if possible. After that, they place one cattle on a cattle pasture (see below). 
On B-tiles, they additionally advance their marker 1 space on the cactus track.
With the “Settle” action, they may build 1 structure once (see below); on B-tiles, even twice.
With the “Region Scoring“ action, the Wise Eminence first chooses a region they want to score for.  
To this end, you subtract for each region the number of the Wise Eminence’s presences from the number 
of your presences (cattle, inhabitants, houses, settlements). Regions whose rewards have been covered 
with a region marker don’t count for this. 
Then they choose the region with the highest difference (i.e., the region where the number of your presences is most 
superior compared to the Wise Eminence’s number). In the case it’s the same, they choose the most northern one of 
these regions.
They cover the reward of this region with a region marker and earn victory points (instead of cards or coins). So, if 
they choose Boonlake, they earn 4 victory points; otherwise, 3 victory points.
After that, the other 3 regions are scored as usual: For each presence in these regions, you get 1 coin. 
The Wise Eminence, however, earns 1 victory point for each of their presences in these regions instead – on the 
B-tile, even 2 victory points.
Attention! The region scoring is the only action where the Wise Eminence also benefits if you choose the applicable 
action strip. In this case, they earn 1 victory point for each presence as well in the three scored regions. 
Further Effects
Building a structure
If the Wise Eminence is allowed to build a structure, you check how 
many of their houses are on the gameboard. If there is no more than 
1 house, they choose a location 
 with an unoccupied building site 
(as described above) and place a house from their board there (that 
means the Wise Eminence places houses without having to give up 
inhabitants). If there are 2 sites there, they choose the upper one.
In this context, the Wise Eminence ignores all building tile effects.
But if there are already 2 or more of their houses on the gameboard, they choose a location 
 with one of their 
houses and replace this house with a settlement from their board. The replaced house is removed from the game. The 
Wise Eminence ignores the rule that there need to be at least 3 presences adjacent.
Houses, settlements, and cattle are always removed from the solo board from top to bottom.
If the Wise Eminence wanted to build a structure but there are none left on their board, they would immediately earn 
10 victory points instead. 

Placing cattle
If the Wise Eminence is allowed to place cattle, they proceed as follows:
First, for each cattle pasture, they count how many structures (houses and settlements) have been built 
adjacent (no matter by whom), and subtracts the number of cattle on this cattle pasture from this.
If there is exactly 1 space where this difference is higher than the others, they place their cattle on this 
pasture.
Otherwise, they choose the pasture with the fewest cattle from the pastures with an equally high 
difference.
If there is more than one with the same difference, they choose from these pastures by using the 
number in the corner of the solo tile (as if choosing a location).
If all 5 of the Wise Eminence’s cattle are already on the gameboard, they earn 10 victory points instead. 
Movement of the Ship
After both effects of the solo tile have been carried out, the Wise Eminence moves their ship along the river. The 
rules applying to them are the same as in the game with multiple players. However, they never let steps go to waste – 
unless their ship is moved onto the last river space.
The Wise Eminence does not receive the reward of the space where the ships ends up - not even if it consists of 
If they cross a lock before you, they trigger – as usual – an interim scoring. If this scoring ends the first round, you put 
both ships back onto the first river space; after that, it’s your turn. 
Interim Scoring
As usual, an interim scoring is triggered when a ship crosses a lock for the first time in a round.
Conduct the interim scoring as usual for yourself.
The Wise Eminence only carries out the income phase and scores victory points for houses, settlements, cattle, and 
the cactus track – namely, the number of victory points shown on each of the last vacated spaces. In addition, for 
each of their cattle on the gameboard, they earn 1 victory point per adjacent settlement. 
Example: The Wise Eminence earns 2 victory points for the removed 
houses, 6 victory points for the removed settlements, 4 victory 
points for the removed cattle (and additional victory points for 
settlements adjacent to their cattle), plus 14 victory points for the 
marker on the cactus track.
Final Scoring
The final scoring takes place at the end of the second round, as usual. Since the Wise Eminence begins the game, you 
carry out the last action.
During the final scoring, the Wise Eminence gets their income one more time. (Instead, you can double the Wise 
Eminence’s income during the fourth interim scoring, since it won’t change any more after that.)
Then look through the solo tiles in the face-down solo stack. For every yet-unrevealed B-tile, the Wise Eminence 
scores 10 victory points.
If you have the same or more victory points as the Wise Eminence after the final scoring, you win the game. 
Otherwise, The Wise Eminence has proven that they are worthy of their name.

Overview of Symbols
This part of the instructions solely serves to give you an overview of the symbols. You can resort to them whenever any 
questions arise during the game about the effects. 
If there is a number shown next to an effect, the color of the number determines whether you gain something or have 
to give up something. White numbers stand for rewards; black numbers, for costs.
Example: You get 2 coins.	
	
 Example: You have to give up 1 inhabitant in order to place 1 house. 
Income tracks
The gameboard depicts 2 income tracks: the coin track and 
the card track. The two symbols shown in the illustration on 
the right allow you to advance your marker 1 space on the 
respective track.
When your marker moves across a reward, you get this reward immediately.
At each interim scoring, you get the coins or cards and the victory points depicted 
next to your two markers. 
If your marker is on the last space of a track and you would normally be allowed to move it further, this effect goes to 
waste; instead, you earn 2 victory points for each forfeited step. 
If your marker moves across this reward, you immediately may build 1 production site 
(either level 1 or level 2). 
Card effects
Every time you play a card, you may carry out the effect shown at its top. You may allow partial effects to go to waste.
Effects with a lightning symbol are carried out immediately.
Effects with this symbol give you additional victory points at the end of the game.
Effects with this symbol are permanent effects that apply to you during the entire game. 
In order to have a good overview, it is recommended that you fan out the cards in front of you that you have played 
that have game-end effects and permanent effects. 
Immediate effects
Advance your marker 1 space on 
the coin track or the card track 
(depending on the symbol). If 
your card depicts several of such 
symbols, you advance your marker 
1 space per symbol.
Immediately take the number of 
coins indicated.
Immediately take 2 inhabitants.
Immediately take 1 vase.
3 cards to get 2 inhabitants.
You may exchange either 2 cards 
for 4 coins or 4 coins for 2 cards 
(from the pile).
3 cards to get 1 vase and 2 coins, 
or give up 1 vase and 2 coins in 
order to draw 3 cards.

Game-end effects
These rules apply to the following effects: 
If you have reached the number at the top of the respective condition by the end of the game, you get the lower 
number of victory points. If you have reached the number at the bottom of this condition, you get the higher number 
of victory points. If you have not even reached the number at the top, you get no victory points.
Your marker on the applicable income track needs to have advanced at least the 
respective number of spaces.
You need to own at least the respective number of levers. 
You need to have removed at least the respective number of cattle/
houses/settlements from your player board. 
Permanent effects
5 cards to earn 4 victory points, 
or give up 4 victory points in order 
to draw 5 cards.
2 cards to earn the number of 
victory points indicated.
You may immediately give up 
1 inhabitant to get 8 coins.
You may immediately give up 
2 vases to earn 4 victory points.
Immediately move 1 of your levers 
up again.
You may immediately upgrade 
1 inhabitant to a house without 
having to give up an inhabitant for 
that.
You may immediately upgrade 
1 house to 1 settlement. To do so, 
you need to give up 1 inhabitant 
less, and the required number of 
adjacent presences decreases by 1. 
These effects are cumulative if you 
have more than one of the same 
kind (e.g., with the lever that makes 
upgrading to a settlement easier).
When you modernize, the costs 
of your levers always decrease by 
the number of coins indicated. 
Multiple of these effects are 
cumulative. The costs can never 
drop below 0 coins.
The coin costs of the cards you 
play are reduced by 1. This also 
applies to costs of the special 
building projects on scoring tiles. 
Multiple of these effects are 
cumulative. The costs can never 
drop below 0 coins.
Gain 1 victory point for each of your presences in the 
region shown.
Gain 1 victory point for each cattle you 
have removed from your player board. 
Gain 1 victory point for each production 
site you have built. Production sites 
showing 2 resources give you 2 victory 
points for this effect.
Gain 1 victory point for each house you 
have removed from your player board.
Gain 2 victory points for each settlement 
you have removed from your player 

Lever effects
When you carry out the “Progress” action, you may put 1 or 2 lever tiles in the appropriate recesses on your 
player board, provided you pay the coins for them.
You may carry out lever effects at any suitable moment, also during other actions and also during the 
interim scorings (but not after you have moved the levers up again at the fourth interim scoring). To do so, 
you move the lever down in order to indicate you have used it. At the next interim scoring, you move it up 
so that you can use it again later on.
A special condition applies to the 3 levers in the top row of your modernization area: You may carry them out only if 
you forgo the part of an action that involves all players (i.e., the part depicted on the right side of the action strip). (At 
the region scoring, you may do without the coins you would normally get, in order to use the lever. If you have the 
chosen the “Pioneer,” the right side applies to the other players only; so, in this case, you cannot use the lever, but the 
others can.)
If you have more than one of these 3 levers and forgo the just-described part of an action, you may carry out only 1 of 
these lever effects – not all! 
If you forgo the part of an action that involves all players, you may either take 1 vase or give up a 
vase to get 6 coins.
If you forgo the part of an action that involves all players, you may modernize once (see p. 12).
If you forgo the part of an action that involves all players, you may upgrade once (but not 
develop!).
Every time you would be allowed to play a card (or discard it to get 2 coins) and voluntarily forgo 
this, you get 1 coin for each production site you have built on your player board. Production sites 
showing 2 resources count double. You may use this lever also if you forgo playing a card at the 
„Builder“ action or at the interim scoring!
If you discard a card of this kind 
(day, sunset, night), you get 1 
coin more. Multiple of these 
effects are cumulative. This effect 
always applies when you discard 
such a card – e.g., also when you 
choose not to place cattle and, 
instead, play or discard a card.
Every time you place 1 cattle 
from your player board onto the 
gameboard, you need to give 
up 1 inhabitant less. Multiple of 
these effects are cumulative.
Every time you place 1 cattle 
from your player board onto the 
gameboard, you get 2 additional 
coins. Multiple of these effects 
are cumulative.
If, in phase 2 of your turn, your 
ship ends up on a river space that 
shows coins, you get 1 additional 
coin.
If your ship ends its move in a 
harbor, you get 2 coins or 
2 cards (depending on the 
symbol shown).
Every time your ship ends its 
move on a space showing a vase 
and you take a vase, you get an 
additional vase.

Every time you would be allowed to play a card (or discard it to get 2 coins) and voluntarily forgo 
this, you get 3 coins. You may use this lever also if you forgo playing a card at the "Builder" action 
or at the interim scoring!
At a region scoring, you get not only 1 coin but also 1 victory point for each of your presences 
(e.g., for 5 presences in the three regions that are scored, you get 5 coins and, additionally, 
5 victory points).
You may immediately move 1 boat on your player board upstream (to the left) any number of 
steps without having to pay any coins for that.
During an effect that allows you to upgrade a house to a settlement, you may use this lever in order 
to have to give up 1 inhabitant less. In addition, the number of adjacent presences required decreases 
by 1 (i.e., you need only 2 adjacent presences). These effects are cumulative with other effects that 
facilitate this condition.
When you place a building tile (which can also be a cattle pasture) on the gameboard, you may 
move this lever down in order to get 1 inhabitant.
When you use this lever, you may, when you want to play a card, reduce its resource costs by 
1 resource (the effect counts as a joker, so to speak), or take 2 coins, or draw 2 cards. You can also 
use such a discount for the special projects on scoring tiles.
When you use this lever, you may, when you want to play a card, reduce its resource costs by 
1 resource (the effect counts as a joker, so to speak) and take 5 coins. Instead, you may also just 
take the 5 coins and forgo the resource joker. You can also use such a discount for the special 
projects on scoring tiles.
You may discard 2 cards to get 1 inhabitant and 3 victory points.
Scoring tiles
The upper half of a scoring tile shows special building projects. You can carry them out through a “Play a card” effect. 
To do so, you have to pay the costs indicated, and then immediately get 2 inhabitants, advance 1 step on one of the 
two income tracks, earn victory points, and immediately place 1 inhabitant on a space of your color above the scoring 
tile.
Besides this, the bottom half of each scoring tile shows a category and 4 different values. These stand for the 
conditions that you need to fulfill at the 1st / 2nd / 3rd / 4th interim scoring in order to successfully score for the scoring 
tile. All conditions are minimum conditions.
If it is the scoring tile that you chose during the game set-up, these victory points are doubled. 
These scoring tiles show two regions. Each condition consists of 2 numbers. 
To successfully score for the scoring tile, you need to have the top number of 
presences in any one of the two regions and the bottom number of presences in 
the other region. Presences can be inhabitants, cattle, houses, and settlements.
Your marker needs to have advanced at least the given number of spaces on the 
respective income track.

The lower one of your markers on the two income tracks needs to have 
advanced at least the given number of spaces.
You need to have built the indicated number of production sites.
You need to own at least 1 presence on the depicted number of adjacent 
building tiles (also cattle pastures!).
You need to own the depicted number of levers on your player board.
You need to have removed the depicted number of cattle from your player 
You need to have removed the depicted number of settlements from your player 
You need to have the depicted number of presences on building tiles (incl. 
cattle pastures) next to bridges; these are the building tiles on spaces that 
interconnect regions.
Give up 1 inhabitant or 5 coins (or, respectively, 1 vase or 5 coins) immediately, 
and as many times as indicated. As an additional bonus, you get 2 victory points 
each time. You need to do this exchange the indicated number of times – but 
only while you are scoring for this scoring tile. You may also "mix," that means, 
for instance, give up 2 inhabitants and 10 coins.
Give up 2 coins immediately, and as many times as indicated. As an additional 
bonus, you get 1 victory point each time. You need to do this exchange the 
indicated number of times – but only while you are scoring for this scoring tile.
You need to have played enough sunset cards and day cards in order to be allowed 
to score successfully for this scoring tile. The top number indicates the number for 
any one of the two kinds; the bottom number, the number for the other kind.
The special building projects on the scoring tiles count for you as a played card of a 
kind of your choice; however, you have to decide on 1 kind for each project.
	
Building tiles
When you carry out the “Develop” effect, you may place 1 inhabitant from your ranch onto an unoccupied building 
site.
In order to be allowed to put an inhabitant on a building site, you have to pay the costs indicated (or take the reward).
Pay the number of coins indicated or discard the number of cards indicated.
Take the number of coins indicated or draw the number of cards indicated.
These building sites are free of charge.

Immediately advance your marker 
1 space on the applicable income 
track.
Advance your marker 3 spaces 
on the coin track OR on the card 
track. You may not split the steps 
between the tracks.
You immediately receive the 
income of your marker on the coin 
track (do not advance it!).
You immediately receive the 
income of your marker on the card 
track (do not advance it!).
You immediately gain the indicated 
You immediately lose the indicated 
You immediately get 1 vase.
The moment you upgrade a house 
to a settlement on this building 
site, you gain the indicated number 
of victory points.
The moment you upgrade a house 
to a settlement on this building 
site, you lose 5 victory points.
Some building tiles show effects that become effective immediately or only under certain conditions:
How to Put Together the Double-layer Boards and the Action Board
Before the first game, when punching out the parts from the 
punch-out sheets, there are a few things you need to consider. 
1)	The recesses at the top left of each of the 4 double-layer boards 
contain 4 production sites that you must not dispose of! They 
are needed for the game.
2)	Additionally, in the punch-out sheet that contains the action 
board, you find also further punch-out pieces (100-/200- markers 
and coins) that you must not throw away!
Each of these 5 double boards (4 player boards, 1 action board) needs to be folded 
together, as shown in the illustrations. To do so, attach the adhesive stickers to the spots 
labeled with the word STICKER. At the end of the game, you don‘t have to take them 
apart. Two extra stickers are provided as spare parts.
Imprint
© 2021 dlp games Verlag GmbH
Eurode-Park 86
52134 Herzogenrath
Tel.: 02406-8097200
E-Mail: info@dlp-games.de
Author: Alexander Pfister
Illustration: Klemens Franz
Graphic design and layout: atelier198
Editing: Markus Müller
www.dlp-games.de
English translation: 
Sybille & Bruce Whitehill, “Word for Wort”
Acknowledgments
We thank Wolfgang, Peter, Jakob, 
Anita, Markus, Tino, and all the other 
test-players and proofreaders for their 
valuable feedback!