© 2003 GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
#0401
BORODINO
By Richard Berg
A Triumph & Glory Game
RULE BOOK
8.0
Artillery Fire ............................................... 8
9.0
Shock Combat ............................................ 9
10.0 Rally and Recovery .................................... 15
11.0 Jaegers ........................................................ 15
Scenarios
The Battle of Schevardino Redoubt .................... 16
The Battle of Borodino ........................................ 17
1.0
Introduction ................................................ 2
2.0
Components ................................................ 2
3.0
Sequence of Play ........................................ 3
4.0
Initiative...................................................... 3
5.0
Orders and Activation ................................. 4
6.0
Facing, Stacking, & Zones of Control ........ 6
7.0
Movement ................................................... 7
Table of Contents

1.0 Introduction
The Triumph & Glory system covers battles of the Napoleonic Wars,
with an emphasis on accessibility and playability, plus as much his-
torical flavor as we can slather on. Given a choice between play-
ability and detail, we have tended to “err” on the side of the former.
This game uses version 2.2 of the Triumph & Glory system. It con-
tains several significant changes from the original rules, specifi-
cally in the Cavalry Charge mechanics as well as the replacement
of the Rout rules with the new Withdrawal rules. Experienced Tri-
umph & Glory players should read the rules thoroughly with this
in mind.
2.0 Components
The game of Borodino includes the following items:
1 22" x 34" game map
11/2 counter sheets
1 rules booklet
1 player aid card
1 ten-sided die
2.1 The Map
The game map covers the area over which the battle was fought.
The map is overlaid with a grid of hexagons—hexes—that are used
to regulate movement.
2.2 The Counters
Borodino includes counters representing infantry, cavalry and artil-
lery units, plus Leaders, Activation Markers, Orders Markers, etc.
There are three different types of combat units: infantry, cavalry
and artillery. They are all color-coded for ease in identifying to which
Activation Group they belong. Most combat units are printed on
both sides; the reverse shows the unit in a “Disordered” state.
Because of the changes in command structure, the counters’ Unit
Designations often reflect differing hierarchy and unit type. Each
scenario briefly describes what the counters for that unit represent.
The Activation Markers indicate which group of units will get to
move next (see Section 5).
The Orders Markers designate which Orders Commands are “Un-
der Orders” or have “No Orders.”
2.3 The Die
The game uses a ten-sided die to resolve combat. A ‘0’ is a “zero,”
not a “ten.”
2.4 Definitions/Abbreviations
Awareness of the following terms will help as you read through the
rules:
AM: Abbreviation for Activation Marker. Each Activation Group
has two Activation Markers.
Activation Group: A group of combat units from the same parent
organization (usually a corps), as defined by the Activation Group
Indicator line on the counter.
Brigade: Units of the same brigade are identified by the Unit name,
followed by a letter. For example, Dumon a, and Dumon b all be-
long to Dumon’s brigade.
Cohesion: A rating used to represent Morale, Training, Weaponry,
etc. Used for a variety of purposes, and probably the most impor-
tant of the ratings.
Combat Units: Infantry, Artillery and Cavalry units are considered
combat units; Leaders and markers are not.
Commitment: The ability of an individual unit to engage in Shock.
DRM: Die Roll Modifier
Horse Artillery: Artillery units with a Movement Allowance of 8.
Cavalry Type
L=Lt, H=Hv, C=Cossack
Shock
Cavalry Unit
Corps ID
A symbol has been printed on multi-unit infantry brigades
to help make these units stand out. Two units from the
same brigade may stack with one artillery unit—allowing
a player to have three units in a hex (6.21).
Defensive
Fire DRM
Shock
Infantry Unit
Corps ID
Effective Fire Range
Maximum Fire Range
Fire
Artillery Unit
Delay Rating
Name
Overall
Orders Range
(2 hexes)
Command Rating DRM
Orders Rating (?)*
* Kutusov’s Orders Rating depends on which
army he is activating (see Special Rules).

Orders Command: All or part of an Activation Group operating
under the same order.
Shock Strength: A unit’s ability when involved in Shock, a num-
ber based on how many men are present.
The Pool: An opaque cup used to hold the Activation Markers.
ZOC: Zone of Control, or the ability of a unit to extend its presence
into adjacent hexes.
2.5 Game Scale
The map scale is approximately 325 yards per hex. Each turn cov-
ers about 75 minutes of real time. Each Infantry Shock Strength
Point equals about 200 men; while each Cavalry Shock Strength
Point equals about 150 men/horses. Units are usually, but not al-
ways, regiments. Each Artillery Strength Point represents about 4
guns, sometimes adjusted for effectiveness.
2.6 Questions
Any questions about play? If you’re willing to wait, send your ques-
tions and a self-addressed stamped envelope, to GMT Games ATTN:
Triumph & Glory Q’s POB 1308 Hanford CA 93232.
Or, we can be reached on the Internet at either:
Designer: “bergbrog@aol.com,”
or Developer: “wframsay@aol.com,”
or Publisher: “gmtgames@aol.com”
For ongoing on-line support of this game, visit our web site at
www.gmtgames.com. It features a set of “Living Rules” (a set of
rules that we continually update).
We also can be found, along with most of the rest of the GMT de-
signers/developers, on Consimworld’s discussion boards, at
www.consimworld.com. We heartily recommend this site to any-
one interested in wargaming.
3.0 Sequence of Play
Each game-turn follows a set sequence. Within that sequence indi-
vidual units move only when their Activation Marker is drawn.
A. Orders Phase:
1. Players roll for possible Orders Delay. Napoleon in Borodino does
not roll for Delay (5.29).
2. Players decide which Orders Commands will receive Orders
(5.21).
B. Initiative Determination Phase.
1. Each player rolls a die to see who has the Initiative (4.0). In the
case of a tie, neither player has the Initiative.
2. Initiative Player (if any) selects one Activation Marker which will
Activate first in the turn.
3. All other Activation Markers for Groups that are either on the
map or scheduled to enter that turn are placed in The Pool.
C. Activation Phase
1. Draw Activation Marker from Pool (except for the first Activa-
tion, when the one selected by the Initiative Player is used).
2. Reveal Order Status for each command in the Activation Group.
Commands with No Orders may attempt to convert to Under
Orders at this time (5.28).
3. Activation Sequence (in order):
a. Artillery Fire (8.0).
b. Units Move (7.0).
c. Shock and/or Cavalry Charge (9.0).
d. Rally—for units that did none of the above (10.1).
This Phase is repeated until there are no Activation Markers left in
the Pool. When that happens, go to the Reserve Phase.
D. Reserve Phase
Each player may activate one Reserve Group (5.5).
E. Group Morale Phase
1. Check for Collapse (10.5).
2. RECOVERY PHASE: players attempt to Recover units in the
Recovery Box. After all Recovery attempts are completed, units are
moved from the Withdrawn Box to the Recovery Box for Recovery
attempts during this phase of the next turn.
F. Overall Commander Movement Phase
Each Player may move their Overall Commander.
4.0 Initiative
In the Initiative Determination Phase, each player rolls one die, to
which he adds his Overall Commander’s Orders Rating (see scenario).
High total has the Initiative for that turn. If there is a tie, no player has
the Initiative, and all Activation Markers go into The Pool.
The Player with the Initiative may choose one of his Activation
Marker—and therefore, Activation Group—he wants to start with
that turn. That group may be either Under Orders or No Orders.
Additionally, the Player with the Initiative chooses which side goes
first during the Reserve Phase and the Overall Commander Move-
ment Phase.
Sample Activation Markers
Front
Individual Orders
Change Rating
Command
Individual Orders
Change Rating
French
Russian
Front
Sample Orders Markers
Command

5.0 Orders and Activation
5.1 Commands and Groups
5.11 Activation Groups consist of all units with the same Activa-
tion Group Indicator (generally a Corps). Every unit in the group is
activated when that command’s Activation Marker is drawn, regard-
less of where they are on the map.
5.12 Orders Commands are groups of units operating under the
same orders, as defined below. All units of an individual Orders
Command also must be members of the same Activation Group. An
Orders Command may be an entire Activation Group, or a subset of
units from an Activation Group.
• Units of a single Orders Command must be from the same Acti-
vation Group.
• Each unit in an Orders Command must be within two hexes of
another unit in that Orders Command. This “chain” may be con-
tinued for any length.
• Individual units that are more than two hexes from any unit in
that Orders Command are treated as a separate Orders Command.
The presence of an enemy unit blocks tracing that range; how-
ever, an enemy ZOC does not.
• Regardless of the Orders Command a unit belongs to, it is acti-
vated when the appropriate Activation Marker is drawn for its
Activation Group.
EXAMPLE: In the French initial set-up for the September 7th sce-
nario, Eugene’s IV corps units are separated into at least two sepa-
rate Orders Commands. Each command would be Activated by
Eugene’s Activation Marker, but they each receive separate “Or-
ders.”
5.2 Orders
For an Orders Command to operate at peak efficiency it must re-
ceive Orders.
5.21 At the beginning of each turn, each Player decides which of his
Orders Commands will receive Orders, thus placing them Under
Orders, and which will not. Orders Delay may prevent a player from
changing his orders.
5.22 The number of Orders Commands a player may place Under
Orders is limited by his Overall Commander’s Orders Rating for
that scenario.
EXAMPLE: At Borodino, Napoleon has an Orders Rat-
ing of ‘3’. He may place three of his commands Under
Orders. All other commands, in excess of that number,
will have No Orders.
5.23 Players indicate the Orders status of each Orders
Command by placing an Orders marker, face/status
down, either near that command on the map, or in the
appropriate Command/Orders box printed on the map.
The Orders marker is not revealed until that Orders
Command’s first Activation Marker of the turn is drawn.
5.24 If a unit becomes separated from its Orders Command, it still
uses the Orders status assigned at the beginning of the turn. If an
Orders Command that began Under Orders has separated into more
than one Orders Command, the separate Commands retain the Un-
der Orders status until the beginning of the next Orders Phase, at
which time the player will have to decide which Orders Command
remains Under Orders (with the remainder becoming No Orders).
Units of separate Orders Commands which return into range of each
other may adopt the Orders Status of either command during the
Orders Phase of the subsequent turn.
PLAY NOTE: This means that, if during the turn, unit “A” becomes
separated from its Orders Command (the “proximity” requirement)
it still uses the Orders it received at the beginning of the turn. How-
ever, if still separated at the beginning of the next turn, it is then
treated as an individual Orders Command.
5.25 Reinforcements. Reinforcements may be placed Under Or-
ders, use Reinforcement Extended Movement, or have No Orders.
See the Reinforcement rules (7.4) for details.
5.26 Units of an Orders Command that is Under Orders may:
• Fire Artillery;
• Use Normal Movement;
• Use Extended Movement (7.13), if eligible; or
• Shock Attack.
5.27 Units of an Orders Command with No Orders may:
• Fire Artillery;
• Use Restricted Movement (7.12); or
• Shock Attack, but add one (+1) to their Commitment Die Roll,
unless the unit is within the Orders Range of its Overall Com-
mander.
5.28 Individual Orders. If an Orders Command has No Orders,
the player may wish to attempt to put that Command Under Orders
when its Activation Marker is drawn. To do so, the player rolls the
die and compares it to the Orders Rating printed on the Activation
Marker just drawn. If any unit in the Orders Command is within the
Orders Range of the Overall Commander, the Overall Commander’s
Command Rating is subtracted from the die roll.
PLAY NOTE: Thus a French Orders Command at Borodino that
has No Orders but wishes to die roll for Under Orders would, if any
unit in the Command was in Napoleon’s Range, subtract two (–2)
from that die roll.
• If the adjusted die roll is less than or equal to the Activation
Marker’s Orders Rating, its units are Under Orders for that Acti-
vation only. The Command reverts to No Orders status when fin-
ished with that Activation.
• If the adjusted die roll is higher than the Rating, the units of that
Command may not do anything, except to Rally.
5.29 Orders Delay. Each scenario provides an Orders Delay rat-
ing, which limits an Overall Commander’s ability to change the
Orders he already has in place. In the Orders Phase of each turn,
other than the first, the player can roll the die. If the die roll is less
than or equal to the Orders Delay rating, the player can issue new
orders to all Orders Commands. If the die roll is greater than the
Orders Delay rating, the player’s army operates with the same Or-
ders as the previous turn.
• For each turn a player fails his Orders Delay roll, sub-
tract one from the next die roll (i.e., if the player fails
once, subtract 1; twice, subtract 2, etc.).
• Napoleon does not roll for Orders Delay. He may always issue
new orders every turn.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Most of the armies of the day did not have
the staff necessary to implement dissemination of orders. Conse-
quently, it took a great deal of time to change Orders, or even issue

new ones. The French, however, with Napoleon’s massive and ex-
cellent staff of aides-de-camp had mastered the art.
5.3 Activation Markers
5.31 Activation Markers are used to determine the order which each
player’s units move and fight. Each Activation Group has two Acti-
vation Markers representing it. Activation markers are drawn one
by one from a single pool during the Action Phase of the turn, which
determines the order in which each Activation Group is activated.
EXAMPLE: The Borodino Activation Marker for Davout/I would
apply to—and activate—all I Corps units, regardless of where they
are on the map. All commands of the I Corps with “Orders” could
move and attack normally. All commands of I Corps with “No Or-
ders must either operate under the restrictions of 5.27 or roll for
full activation. A die roll of 0–6 would put the command “Under
Orders.” If Napoleon was within three hexes of one of the units of
the command, the die roll needed would be 0–8.
5.32 At the beginning of each turn, the Activation Markers for all
on-map units and reinforcements for that turn are placed in The
Pool. Note that some reinforcements only receive one Activation
Marker the turn they enter (see scenarios for details).
5.33 Artillery Barrage Marker. In some scenarios, an
Artillery Barrage Activation Marker may be available
for one or both players. Placing this Activation Marker
in the Pool costs the player one Orders Rating Point.
Only one Artillery Barrage Activation Marker may be placed in the
Pool by a player each turn. In some scenarios, use of this Activation
Marker may be restricted.
5.34 Combined Group Activation Marker (not used in Borodino).
Depending on the scenario, players may have the ability to use the
Combined Group Activation Marker. This is used to Activate two
Activation Groups at the same time. To use this AM, the player
places it in the Pool, retaining one AM from each of two groups he
wishes to Activate together. The retained markers will designate
which groups are to be Activated by the Combined Group marker.
When the Combined Group AM is drawn, both Activation Groups
move as if they were one Activation Group. The number of times a
player may use the Combined Group AM during the game is indi-
cated in the special rules for each scenario.
PLAY NOTE: When using the Combined Group Activation Marker,
one AM from each chosen Activation Group is held out, while the
other is still placed in the Pool.
5.35 The decision to use either the Artillery Barrage or Combined
Group Activation Markers (if available) is made after Initiative is
determined, but before the Initiative Player chooses his initial AM.
Either of them may be chosen, if desired, by the Initiative Player as
his first AM.
5.4 Using Activation Markers
5.41 The first Activation Marker used in each game turn is selected
by the Initiative Player. He may choose any of his Activation Mark-
ers (even the Combined Group AM or the Artillery Barrage AM) as
the first Activation.
5.42 All remaining Activation Markers are drawn randomly, one at
a time, from the Pool.
5.43 When an Activation Marker is drawn, the units of that Activa-
tion Group may Move and engage in Combat, though this varies
according to their Orders status. Disordered units that neither move
nor engage in Combat may attempt to Rally, regardless of Orders
status.
5.44 When all the units of the selected Group finish their actions,
that Activation Marker is set aside and a player draws another Acti-
vation Marker, repeating the above process, until all Activation
Markers have been drawn.
5.5 Activation As Reserves
5.51 In the Reserve Phase, each Player may activate one of his Or-
ders Commands. The Initiative Player chooses which player will go
first in this phase. If there is no Initiative Player, each player rolls a
die to see who goes first during Reserve Activation, with the high
roll going first (re-roll any ties).
PLAY NOTE: This means that it is possible for an Orders Com-
mand to get three Activations in one turn.
5.52 In order to be activated in the Reserve Phase,
• At least one unit of the Orders Command must be in the Overall
Commander’s Orders Range.
• Only units in Orders Command not adjacent to an enemy unit
may be activated as Reserves.
5.53 Units activated as Reserves function as if they had No Orders.
They may not roll for Orders (5.28), nor may they Rally.
5.54 Each non-artillery unit that moves during a Reserve Activa-
tion must roll a die for possible Disorder when it finishes move-
ment. If the die roll is higher than its Cohesion, the unit is Disor-
dered. Already Disordered units that fail Withdraw.
5.55 Artillery does not roll for Disorder when moving during a Re-
serve Activation, but does roll for Disorder if it fires during that
Activation.
5.56 Non-Artillery units that do not move during a Reserve Activa-
tion and Artillery units that do not Fire during a Reserve Activation
do not roll for Disorder.
5.57 The Reserve Phase may not be used to activate Commands
that did not have an Activation Marker in the Pool. This usually
refers to restrictive rules on using the various Guard units.
5.6 Overall Commanders
5.61 Each scenario has an Overall Commander. The
Overall Commander has four ratings:
• Command DRM: used to modify the die roll when rolling for
Under Orders status and for Shock Commitment.
• Orders: the number of Orders Commands the Overall Commander
can automatically place Under Orders, subject to Delay.
• Orders Delay: used to change orders during the game.
• Orders Range: the range, in hexes, over which the Overall Com-
mander can use his Command DRM. Count the range from the
Overall Commander to the unit, excluding the hex the Overall
Commander is in.
5.62 The Overall Commander may move only in the Overall Com-
mander Movement Phase. Unless specified in the scenario, Overall
Commanders have a Movement Allowance of ‘8’.

Standard Facing
Cavalry Defensive Facing
5.63 If a hex containing an Overall Commander is entered by en-
emy units, either during combat or movement, the Overall Com-
mander is immediately moved to the nearest friendly unit. Overall
Commanders are not affected in any way by combat.
6.0 Facing, Stacking, & Zones of
Control
PLAY NOTE: Facing—the position of a unit— affects the ability
of that unit to fire and/or engage in Shock. Zones of Control are
independent of facing; they restrict the movement capability of
enemy units. To a certain extent, this is a bit different from many
historical games.
6.1 Facing
6.11 All units must be faced in a hex so that the top of the unit (the
side with its unit name) faces towards a vertex (joint) of the hex it is
in—not a hexside—as per the diagram. All units in a hex must be
faced the same way, except as noted below. The two hexes to the
front are called the Frontal Hexes; the four behind, the Rear.
Exceptions:
• Infantry units (only) in Villages, Castles and Redoubts have fron-
tal facing into all six hexes surrounding them.
• Cavalry that is not Disordered has a special “Defensive Facing,”
wherein the two frontal and the two “flank” hexes (as per the
diagram) are all considered Frontal for purposes of deciding at-
tacker position (only). Disordered cavalry has standard facing.
6.12 Facing and Movement. Facing has no effect on movement or
Zones of Control, and a unit is free to change its facing at any time
during and at the end of movement. Units do not pay any move-
ment point cost to change facing. Units do not have to be facing a
particular hex to enter that hex.
6.13 Facing and Combat. Facing does have an effect on combat:
• A unit may fire or shock into/from only its Frontal hexsides.
• When a unit is attacked through its Rear hexes, there are negative
effects.
6.14 If an artillery unit is stacked with an infantry or cavalry unit
the two units do not have to have the same facing. Any facing ef-
fects on the Shock die roll apply to the infantry or cavalry unit’s
orientation.
6.2 Stacking
6.21 Stacking Limits. There may never be more than three (3) com-
bat units in any one hex. Stacking restrictions apply at the end of
Movement and during Combat (Shock and/or Fire). Markers and
Overall Commanders do not count for stacking purposes.
• Infantry and Cavalry may never stack with each other.
• A maximum of two infantry or two cavalry units is allowed in a
hex, unless all units in the hex are from the same brigade, in which
case three units may stack together.
• Jaegers count as infantry for all stacking purposes.
• ARTILLERY: A maximum of two artillery units from the same
Activation Group, with a combined total of no more than 6
Strength Points, may be stacked in 1 hex as long as no non-artil-
lery units are in the hex.
• No more than one artillery unit may be stacked with any non-
artillery unit.
• Artillery may only stack with two infantry or two cavalry units if
the infantry/cavalry units are both from the same brigade.
6.22 Stacking and Enemy Units. A unit may never move into or
through a hex containing an enemy combat unit.
6.23 Stacking and Combat. Stacking affects combat in the follow-
ing ways:
• All units in a stack may Shock, but only the top unit has to pass
the Commitment Die Roll. Failure to pass the Commitment Die
Roll by the top unit results in no Shock attack by the entire stack.
• Artillery may Fire regardless of where it is in a stack.
• Only the top Infantry unit in a stack may use its Defensive Fire
rating to adjust enemy Commitment Die Rolls.
• Artillery Fire affects all units in a Stack, except for Artillery Re-
action Fire against an infantry Shock attack, which affects only
the top infantry unit (8.6).
• When a stack is required to make a Cohesion Check, only the top
infantry/cavalry unit in the stack makes the Cohesion check, with
the results of that Cohesion check applied to all units in the stack.
6.24 Stacking Order. A unit moving into and stopping in a hex
occupied by another unit always is placed at the bottom of the stack.
Stacking order may be changed at the beginning or end of that unit’s
Activation Marker phase and at no other time. In addition a unit in
an enemy ZOC may not change stacking order.
6.3 Zones of Control (ZOC)
Zones of Control represent the presence a unit extends outside its
immediate area.
6.31 Each combat unit usually exerts a ZOC into all six hexes sur-
rounding it. The following units do not have a ZOC:
• Artillery units.
• Disordered units.
• Units in Square.
• Russian Militia units.
6.32 ZOCs and Terrain. ZOC do not extend across impassable
hexsides, nor do they extend across Bridges. They do extend across
Fords and crossable Streams/Rivers, unless noted otherwise.
6.33 Entering an Enemy ZOC. Units must stop moving upon en-
tering an enemy ZOC (although they may alter their facing as they
enter that hex). There is normally no cost to enter an enemy ZOC,
except for Disordered units, which pay an additional Movement
Point to enter an enemy ZOC. A unit that enters an enemy ZOC
may change Facing before it ends its move.
PLAY NOTE: Yes, artillery may enter an enemy ZOC, even if alone.
This has more to do with the scale than tactical doctrine of the era.
6.34 Exiting an Enemy ZOC. Units may leave an enemy ZOC if
they start their activation there, but:
• to do so costs one additional Movement Point, and

• that unit may not enter an enemy-controlled Frontal Hex during
that activation. (That means they may move directly to a non-
Frontal controlled hex, at which point they stop).
Note: This rule allows a unit to move from one ZOC to another, as
long as it does not enter a Frontal ZOC in that activation.
6.35 ZOCs and Facing. A unit that begins an Activation in an en-
emy ZOC may change facing.
7.0 Movement
7.1 Movement Allowances
7.11 Normal Movement. Each combat unit has a Movement Al-
lowance printed on the counter. This represents the maximum num-
ber of Movement Points that unit may “normally” expend during a
single Activation Phase (when Under Orders). Units may always
move less than their allowed Movement Allowance.
7.12 Restricted Movement. If a unit has No Orders, it may only
expend Movement Points up to one-half of its printed Movement
Allowance (rounded up). Thus, infantry without orders has a Move-
ment Allowance of 2, Light Cavalry, 4, etc.
7.13 Extended Movement.. A command Under Orders may have
its units use Extended Movement, as long as no unit starts or moves
within three hexes of an enemy combat unit. Extended Movement
applies to the entire Orders Command; all units must use it, or none
may. If the player wishes to move any unit in the Orders Command
closer than three hexes from an enemy unit, the entire Orders Com-
mand may not use Extended Movement.
• Units using Extended Movement double (x2) their printed Move-
ment Allowance.
• Units that are using Extended Movement may not move through
other friendly units.
• Non-artillery units may not stack during Extended Movement.
Non-Artillery units may begin Extended Movement stacked, but
may not remain that way.
• Artillery units may stack with other artillery units, up to the 6
Strength Point limit, during Extended Movement.
• Disordered units may not use Extended Movement.
PLAY NOTE: You may use only one type of movement during any
given phase. You may not start using Extended and then switch to
Normal.
7.2 Movement and Terrain
7.21 A unit expends Movement Points for each hex it enters. Move-
ment Point costs depend on unit type; see the Terrain Chart. Note
that horse artillery units use the artillery movement column.
7.22 Units using Roads pay the Road cost if they are entering that
hex from a hex containing a connecting Road/Path hex; otherwise,
they pay the cost of the other terrain in the hex. Roads/Paths do not
negate elevation costs.
7.23 Certain hexes/hexsides are impassable; units may not enter or
cross them unless they are traversed by a Bridge or Road.
7.24 Roads negate the Movement cost of crossing Streams, even if
there is no Bridge. Where they do this, it is called a Ford. In Borodino,
the only fords are those that are marked with a Ford symbol.
7.3 Movement Restrictions
7.31 As a unit moves, it traces a path of contiguous hexes through
the hex grid, paying the cost of each hex entered. Each unit moves
separately, and one unit’s movement must be completed before an-
other can begin.
7.32 A unit may never move into or through a hex containing an
enemy combat unit.
7.33 A unit may be moved in any direction or combination of direc-
tions. A unit’s Facing has no effect on how or where it may move.
7.34 A moving unit must have enough Movement Points to pay the
terrain cost of entering a hex. If it does not, it may not enter that
hex.
7.35 Minimum Move. A unit may always move one hex if the hex
moved into is not prohibited to that unit. Units using a Minimum
Move may not enter an enemy Zone of Control.
7.36 Artillery Movement. All artillery fire is resolved before any
unit moves. Artillery units that fire are marked with a “Fired-1/2
Move” marker. After all artillery fire is completed, artillery may
move. Those with a Fired 1/2 Move marker may use only half their
Movement Allowance and may not move adjacent to an enemy unit.
EXAMPLES OF MOVEMENT: The five units above move for-
ward expending MPs as shown. Note that the cavalry unit at
the top moves through the woods hex along a path, the path
reduces the cost of the woods to 2 MPs (Path = 1/2 of OTIH
with fractions rounded up). The cavalry unit then pays 3 MPs
to enter a woods hex and becomes disordered. The two infantry
units pay 1 MP for cultivated and 2 MPs for woods or village
hexes. The artillery unit pays 2 MPs for clear terrain, 3 MPs
for cultivated and 1 MP for the road. The cavalry unit at the
bottom pays 1 MP for clear and 2 MPs for cultivated hexes.
Note that moving up one elevation level does not cost any addi-
tional MPs. Had it been a steep elevation change it would have
cost the cavalry unit +2 MPs.

After all movement is completed, remove the Fired-1/2
Move markers. Artillery may not Fire when using Ex-
tended Movement.
7.37 Roads and Enemy Units. Units may not use Road costs to
move adjacent to an enemy unit; they must use the Movement Point
cost of the “other” terrain in the hex. They may, however, use Ford
costs.
7.38 Moving Through Friendly Units. It costs +1 Movement Point
to enter a friendly-occupied hex in order to move through that sta-
tionary unit. See the Stacking rules for the effects of stopping in
such a hex.
7.39 Cavalry and Jaeger Reaction Retreat. If an infantry unit
moves into the ZOC of a Cavalry unit, or a Jaeger unit alone in a
hex, the Cavalry or Jaegers (regardless of facing) may retreat one
hex voluntarily. Such voluntary retreats may be into a friendly oc-
cupied hex and the retreated unit may change facing in its new hex.
The moving unit ceases movement, and may not advance into the
vacated hex. The Jaegers may not fire.
Note: Scenario instructions will indicate whether units identified
as Jaegers are able to use this rule.
7.4 Reinforcements
7.41 Reinforcements enter the game when their Activation Marker
is drawn. (Thus, their Activation Markers are available the turn they
are scheduled to enter). They enter, by Activation Group, through
the Entry hex stated in the scenario as if they were in a “line” ex-
tending off the map: the second unit in that Group pays the cost of
the entry hex plus the cost that the first paid for that entry hex, etc.
7.42 Reinforcements and Orders. A Player has a choice when he
has commands entering as Reinforcements. He may either:
• Use one of his Orders Points to give them Orders, or
• Have them enter using Reinforcement Extended Movement. This
allows the units in that command to use Extended Movement.
However, they may do so only if they use, and stay on, a Road.
Use the “Ext Move” marker as its Orders counter. Whenever the
units can no longer use Extended Movement, they change imme-
diately to “No Orders” status.
• Barring the above two choices, reinforcements will enter with
“No Orders.”
7.43 Reinforcements and Extended Movement. Reinforcement
Extended Movement is available only for the first Activation Marker
drawn for that command in the first turn of its entry. When the next
Activation Marker is drawn, the command changes to No Orders
status.
7.44 Enemy Entry Hexes. No unit may move within two hexes of
an enemy Entry Hex until all reinforcements have entered the game.
8.0 Artillery Fire
8.1 Artillery Fire in General
Artillery may Fire before moving or instead of moving; they may
not fire after moving. Pivoting within the hex is considered move-
ment. Artillery may never Shock attack. Disordered Artillery may
not Fire.
8.2 Fire Strength
Artillery fires using its Fire strength, possibly modified
by factors listed below.
Each unit fires separately, with the following exceptions:
• If two artillery units are stacked in the same hex, they may com-
bine fire. To do so, use the higher Strength (do not combine the
strengths) and add two (+2) to the die roll.
• When an Artillery Barrage Activation Marker is drawn, the player
may fire all artillery units, and may combine the fire of any artil-
lery units that are stacked or adjacent. Add two (+2) to the die roll
for each unit over the first. It costs one Orders Point to use the
Artillery Barrage Activation Marker, and only one may be used
per turn. See specific scenarios for any further restrictions.
Units may be attacked by Artillery more than once in an Activation.
The results of each fire are implemented prior to any additional
fires.
8.3 Fire Range
Artillery units are rated for Effective Fire Range and Maximum
Fire Range (in hexes). The latter is the maximum distance over which
an artillery unit may fire. Range affects the die roll, as follows:
• Fire at a range of one hex (adjacent) against non-artillery units:
+1 DRM.
• Fire within Effective Range, excluding the above: 0 DRM.
• Fire within Maximum Range: –2 DRM for each hex beyond Ef-
fective Range.
DESIGN NOTE: Fire at extended ranges was diminished not so
much by the capability of the guns, but the inability to see and gauge
a target at over 1000 or so yards.
The French MR artillery unit above has an Effective Range of 3 and
a Maximum Range of 5. The large numbers are the Range DRMs.
8.4 Line of Sight (LOS)
Artillery firing at a range of two hexes or more (do not count the
hex the firing unit is in) can fire only if they can see (have a LOS to)
the target. LOS runs from the center of the firing hex to the center
of the target hex.
• Line of Sight is blocked if any intervening hex is of a higher
elevation than both target and firing hex.
• If any intervening hex between target and firer is Woods, and
neither target nor firer is at a higher elevation than that Woods
hex, the Line of Sight is blocked. If both are higher than the Woods
hex, the Line of Sight is not blocked.

• If the firing hex is higher than the target hex and an intervening
Woods hex, the LOS is blocked if the Woods are halfway be-
tween the two or closer to target hex.
EXAMPLE: A can see Y and Z, B can see Z, C cannot see any of
the four hexes beyond the woods hex.
• If the target hex is higher than the firing hex and an intervening
Woods hex, the LOS is blocked if the Woods are halfway be-
tween the two or closer to the firing hex.
• Combat units and Villages do not block Line of Sight. However,
if there are any enemy units in an artillery unit’s adjacent Frontal
hexes, the artillery unit must fire at one of those units rather than
another unit.
• If the Line of Sight coincides with a hexside, the hexside terrain
on the hex spine is considered as if it were an intervening hex.
See item C in the example below.
• Flood Walls (not in Borodino) have no effect on Artillery fire at a
range greater than one.
• LOS is only traced through Frontal hexsides.
8.5 Fire Resolution
Artillery fire is resolved by rolling the die, adding the (range-ad-
justed) Fire strength to the die roll, applying any possible modifiers
and then consulting the Artillery Fire Table.
• Artillery Fire affects all units in the target hex (exception 8.6).
Any results that require an additional die roll are applied, sepa-
rately and individually, to each unit in that hex.
• Artillery may change facing (without leaving the hex) and Fire in
the same friendly phase. It may not change facing, fire, then move,
however, in the same Activation.
See the Artillery Fire Table for results of the adjusted die roll.
8.6 Artillery Reaction Fire
A non-disrupted artillery unit in a hex that is the target of a Shock
Attack receives one free Reaction Fire. It may only target an at-
tacker in one of its frontal hexes—it may not change facing. If at-
tacked from both frontal hexes, the artillery unit may fire at only
one. Artillery Reaction Fire takes place after Commitment Die Rolls
and before Shock Resolution. Infantry or non-Charging cavalry units
that are Disordered due to Artillery Reaction Fire have their Shock
attack cancelled—this also applies to all the units they are stacked
with. Charging Cavalry that is Disordered due to Artillery Reaction
Fire must either continue with the charge, or attempt to stop the
charge with the Recall procedure (9.82).
TOP UNIT ONLY: Artillery Reaction Fire against an infantry Shock
attack effects only the top infantry unit. The Massed Target Modi-
fier (8.9) can still apply.
8.7 Counter-Battery
A non-disrupted artillery unit may fire back at any artillery unit that
fires at it. Such fire is not simultaneous; it occurs after the original
fire. A unit may Counter-Battery only once per Activation or Re-
serve Activation. An artillery unit that uses Counter-Battery may
still use Reaction Fire, and vice versa.
8.8 Misguided Friendly Fire
If an intervening friendly unit-occupied hex is adjacent to the target
hex, there is a possibility that the artillery fire hits the friendly unit
or units, not the target. If the unadjusted Fire die roll is ‘2’ or less,
the intervening friendly unit undergoes a Cohesion die roll with a
–2 DRM. If the adjusted roll is greater than the unit’s cohesion, the
unit suffers a Disorder result.
8.9 Massed Target Modifier
When artillery fires at any hex in which there are two or more non-
artillery, non-Jaeger units stacked, it gets a +1 DRM for each target
unit in that hex beyond the first.
Exception: The exclusion of Jaegers from the Massed Target Modi-
fier does not apply to the Jaeger units belonging to the Coalition
in Austerlitz or the Russians at Borodino.
9.0 Shock Combat
9.1 General Procedure
Shock Combat includes Infantry Shock, Cavalry Shock, and Cav-
alry Charge. Cavalry Charge is explained in detail in rule 9.8. The
following steps are followed, in order, to resolve Infantry Shock
and Cavalry Shock
STEP 1: The phasing player declares all Shock attacks (and Charges
[9.8]).
STEP 2: Eligible Cavalry, Horse Artillery, and Jaegers may Retreat
before Shock. If this occurs, the attacking unit(s) may advance into
the vacated hex (9.31 and 9.32).
STEP 3: The phasing player performs a Commitment Die Roll for
each stack of infantry or cavalry units wishing to shock—use only
the top unit (9.4). Infantry and Cavalry Shock Commitment Die
Rolls are modified by the defender’s Defensive Fire Rating (9.42).
STEP 4: The non-phasing player may conduct Artillery Reaction
Fire (8.6). If any Infantry or non-Charging cavalry are Disordered
by Artillery Reaction Fire, their Shock Attack is canceled.
EXAMPLES OF LINE OF SIGHT: The hexes marked A through
F are not in the LOS of the artillery unit. A–D are blocked by
the Woods. E is blocked by the steep slope hexside, and F by a
higher elevation in an intervening hex. All other hexes are vis-
ible to the artillery unit. Note that the village and dirt wall
have no effect on LOS.

STEP 5: Remaining Shock attacks are resolved in the order the at-
tacking player chooses.
9.2 Which Units May Shock Attack
9.21 An Active, Committed unit that is not Disordered may Shock
attack any enemy unit(s) in its Frontal hexes, except if separated by
impassable terrain. Cavalry units may Shock attack only if they
began the Activation adjacent to the enemy unit to be attacked, or if
they are Charging (9.8).
9.22 Multi-hex Shock Combat. A unit attempting to Shock must
do so against all enemy units in its Frontal hexes, unless one (or
more) of those enemy units is also being Shocked by another friendly
unit. In the situation where a friendly unit is attacking only one of
two stacks of enemy in (each of) its Frontal hexes because the other
is being attacked by another friendly unit, and the latter fails its
Commitment check or becomes Disordered by Artillery Reaction
Fire, the former must now shock both enemy units!
DIFFERENT HEXES, DIFFERENT DRMS: If a single Shock At-
tack targets two different hexes, and each hex has different modifiers
(i.e., one is in square, the other isn’t) apply the same Shock Combat
die roll to both hexes, but modify the die roll separately for each.
9.23 Multi-Group Shock Combat. Infantry, Charging Cavalry and
non-Charging Cavalry may not combine their strengths when at-
tacking the same unit. Each attack is resolved separately, in the fol-
lowing order: Cavalry Charge, Cavalry Shock, and Infantry Shock.
Advance after combat (9.71) is allowed only to the group that actu-
ally cleared the defender’s hex.
9.24 Disorder and Shock. Disordered units may not Shock attack.
Units stacked underneath a Disordered infantry or cavalry unit may
not Shock attack. Charging Cavalry which is Disordered by Artil-
lery Reaction Fire may still Shock; however, they lose all Charge
DRMs.
9.25 Artillery and Shock. Artillery may not participate in Shock
Combat (either offensively or defensively)—they have no Shock
strength .
• If stacked with units that must retreat, it must also retreat. Other-
wise, it suffers the same result (if any) as the unit or units it is
stacked with.
• If Shocked while alone in a hex (or stacked with another artillery
unit), it is automatically eliminated—you may not capture guns.
9.3 Retreat Before Shock
9.31 Cavalry Retreat Before Shock. Cavalry and Horse Artillery
may retreat one or two hexes before being Shocked by infantry, as
may Light Cavalry/Horse Artillery being Shocked or Charged solely
by Heavy Cavalry, even if it is Disordered. No die roll is necessary—
it is automatic if the non-phasing player wishes. The non-phasing
player must make this decision before the attacker makes his Com-
mitment Die Roll. In this case, the attacker may advance into the
vacated hex.
POSSIBLE DISORDER: Light Cavalry/Horse Artillery which re-
treats before Shock from Charging Heavy Cavalry must roll against
its Cohesion for possible Disorder (which may cause already Dis-
ordered units to Withdraw).
ENEMY ZOCs: Cavalry/Horse Artillery that retreats before shock
may not do so into a ZOC of another enemy unit, nor may they
retreat through the ZOC of the unit they are retreating from.
PLAY NOTE: Cavalry may not Retreat before being fired at by ar-
tillery.
9.32 Jaeger Retreat Before Shock. Jaegers may retreat one hex
before being Shocked by infantry. However, such a decision must
be made before the attacker rolls for Commitment, and it applies to
unstacked or stacked Jaegers. The attacker may advance into the
vacated hex. Jaegers that retreat before shock may not do so into a
ZOC of another enemy unit, nor may they retreat through the ZOC
of the unit they are retreating from.
9.4 Commitment Check
9.41 Procedure. In order for a unit to Shock Attack or a Cavalry
unit to Charge, it must pass a Commitment Die Roll. The player
rolls for the top unit in each stack with which he wants to attack.
This rule applies to all attacking units regardless of Orders status.
Defenders do not undergo Commitment.
9.42 Commitment Check Modifiers. The following DRM may
apply:
• If the Orders Command of the unit is Under Orders, and at least
one unit from that Command is within the Overall Commander’s
Range, the player may use his Overall Commander’s Command
Rating (a negative DRM) to adjust the Commitment Die Roll
(down).
• If the unit has No Orders, add one (+1) to the die roll.
• If the attacker is attacking through the defending units’ frontal
hexes, add to the Commitment Die Roll the defender’s Defensive
Fire Shock DRM of the top unit (if infantry) in each target hex.
This modifier is not used in Cavalry Charges.
EXAMPLE: French unit Guy/CM shocks
two Russian units through their frontal
hexes. The Commitment Die Roll must be
modified by +1 for the PsK Jgr’s Defensive
Fire Shock DRM. Only the top unit is used.
DESIGN NOTE: The Defensive Fire Shock
DRM represents the use of skirmisher-style
musket fire infantry to deter the approaching line of attackers from
closing for Shock.
9.43 Commitment Results
• If the adjusted Commitment Die Roll is the same as or lower than
the attacking unit’s Cohesion Rating, that unit, and all other units
in that stack (unless subsequently Disordered by Artillery Reac-
tion Fire), must Shock.
• If the adjusted die roll is higher than the unit’s Cohesion Rating,
that unit may not Shock or Charge.
EXAMPLE: A unit with a Cohesion of ‘5’ that is Under Orders and
within range of its OC, who has a -2 Command Rating, that is roll-
ing for Commitment against a defender with a Defensive Fire Rat-
ing of ‘1’ would need to roll a “natural” 6 or less to Commit.
9.44 Charge Markers. A player must announce and
pre-designate, all Shock attacks (and Charges) before
rolling for Commitment for any attack. Charge markers
are provided for indicating cavalry units.
9.45 A Commitment Die Roll is only done by the top unit in a stack.
If it passes, all other non-artillery in the stack pass as well. If it fails,
no units in the stack may Shock. If the top unit in the stack is Disor-
dered, that stack may not Shock Attack.

9.46 All Commitment Die Rolls must be made before any Shock
combat is resolved.
9.5 Shock Resolution Modifiers
Adjusts the Shock die roll by the following, where/if applicable:
9.51 Strength Ratio. To determine the DRM for the Strength ratio,
each player totals the strength of all his units involved in the Shock
(exception: 9.23). The attacker then compares the strength of his
units with that of the defending units, stated as an odds ratio re-
duced to its simplest form and rounded off in favor of the Defender.
See the Odds/ Ratio Chart for the applicable DRMs.
EXAMPLE: A 9 point unit attacking an enemy 5 point unit would
undertake a Shock at 3-to-2. A 3-2 provides a +1 DRM.
9.52 Cohesion Differential. The attacker subtracts the defender’s
highest Cohesion rating from the Attacker’s highest, and the differ-
ence is the DRM. Obviously, if the defender’s Cohesion is better
than the attacker’s, that DRM will be a negative. Artillery Cohesion
is not used for this determination.
9.53 Terrain Effects. See the Terrain Effects Chart. If the attacker
is attacking the same unit or stack from different hexes, and the
defender occupies any terrain or is behind any hexside feature that
gives a beneficial modifier (at least a –1), the Defender chooses
which terrain modifier to use. Otherwise, the attacker may choose.
THE CLEAR TERRAIN MODIFIER: The +1 Shock DRM for de-
fender in Clear Terrain is only applicable if:
• The Attacker is attacking from one or more of the Defender’s
Frontal Hexes.
• At least one of the two hexes in the Defender’s Zone of Control
adjacent to the Defender’s Frontal Hexes (the flank hexes) is va-
cant and does not have a different unit belonging to the Defender
exerting a Zone of Control upon it. Infantry attacking Cavalry
never receive this DRM. See example below.
9.54 Positional Modifiers,
• [1] REAR: If defending units are being attacked through their
Rear hexside(s): +2*. If the Shock Combat targets two or more
hexes, all defender’s must have their rear towards the attacker.
• [2] FRONT AND REAR: Any frontal or rear attack in which at
least one (each) of the defender’s Rear and Frontal hexes are oc-
cupied by an enemy unit which has as one of its Frontal hexes the
defender’s hex, +3*. This is not cumulative with the Rear +2
DRM. In multi-hex shock combat situations, all hexes must qualify
or no modifier is received.
Note: Positional modifiers apply only if all defenders are being
attacked through a Rear hexside [1] or through Frontal and Rear
hexsides [2]. Additionally, to qualify for either of these modifiers,
at least one attacking unit in the defender’s Rear hex must not be
in a Frontal hex of another enemy unit.
EXAMPLE: In A the two French units qualify for the +3 Front and
Rear Positional Modifier. In B they do not because the unit attack-
ing the rear hex is in a frontal hex of a Russian unit.
9.55 Other Shock Modifiers :
• Charge Modifiers: See 9.83.
• Cavalry Charging Square (–2): See 9.85.
THE CLEAR TERRAIN MODIFIER: Unit A is attacking in the
four examples above. Only when it attacks unit D will it receive
the +1 for Clear Terrain, because unit D has an open flank hex
(X) not covered by another friendly unit or its ZOC.
Yes, +1 for Clear Terrain
A
B

• Light Cavalry successfully counter-charged by Heavy Cavalry (–
1): See 9.86.
• Cumulative Pursuit Cavalry Charges (–1). See 9.87.
9.6 Combat Results
9.61 Attacker/Defender Automatic Disorder. All attacking or de-
fending units are Disordered. A unit that suffers a Disorder result is
flipped to its Disordered side. If it is already Disordered it With-
draws. Disordered units suffer the following penalties:
• Have no ZOC.
• May not Shock attack (except for Charging Cavalry Disordered
by Artillery Reaction Fire).
• Artillery may not Fire.
• May neither form Square nor Counter-Charge.
• If Jaegers, may not retreat before Shock Combat.
• Pay +1 Movement Point to enter an enemy ZOC.
• May not use Extended Movement.
9.62 Retreat Cohesion Check. Each affected unit must undergo a
Cohesion Check Die roll (CDR). If the CDR is higher than its Co-
hesion, the unit must retreat one hex. A unit that retreats must move
one hex away from the enemy unit that caused the retreat. It main-
tains the facing it had before retreating; it may not change facing.
See 9.25 if artillery is stacked with retreating units.
9.63 Retreat Restrictions.
• A unit that is forced to retreat into an enemy occupied hex or
across or into prohibited terrain is eliminated.
• A unit that retreats into an unoccupied enemy Frontal Hex With-
draws (9.66).
• A retreating unit may not enter a friendly occupied hex, unless
that is the only path of retreat (see 9.64).
9.64 Retreat Into Friendly Units. If a unit is forced to retreat into
a friendly-occupied hex, and stacking limits are not violated, then
the retreated unit’s facing is changed to be the same as the units
currently in the hex.
9.65 Retreat Through Friendly Units. If a unit’s only path of re-
treat is into a friendly unit with which it cannot stack, the retreating
unit retreats an additional hex, through the stationary unit. The sta-
tionary unit then undergoes a Disorder Cohesion check. If the sta-
tionary unit fails this check, it receives a Disordered result (which
means that already Disordered units Withdraw). This may be re-
peated until the retreating unit finds a hex in which it can stay.
9.66 Withdrawal. A Disordered non-artillery unit that suffers an
additional Disorder result Withdraws. When a unit Withdraws it is
immediately removed from play and placed in the player’s With-
drawn Box, regardless of its situation on the map. A Withdrawn
unit ignores any retreat obligations.
ARTILLERY UNITS: A Disordered artillery unit that suffers an
additional Disorder is eliminated, and is not eligible for Recovery.
DESIGN NOTE: Withdrawal refers to a unit’s inability to stay in
combat, whether it be from losses, fatigue, or simply it’s just “had
enough.”
9.7 Advance and Secondary Shock
9.71 Advance. If a defender vacates its hex (Retreats [9.62], With-
drawals [9.66] or is eliminated) as a result of Shock, the stack which
has the unit with the highest Cohesion must advance into the va-
cated hex.
• The unit or stack may change facing as it enters that hex (unless
using 9.73).
• If more than one unit or stack has the highest cohesion, the at-
tacker chooses which one advances. When comparing two or more
stacks, use the unit in each stack with the highest Cohesion for
comparison.
• If a unit advances into a hex which would normally automati-
cally Disorder the unit, it becomes Disordered.
9.72 If Cavalry or Jaegers retreat before Shock, any advance is op-
tional.
Exception: In determining who advances, Charging cavalry always
take precedence over infantry, even if latter has a higher Cohesion.
9.73 Secondary Shock. There are two possible results in which a
unit may continue to attack, or, possibly, counter-attack: Break-
through (infantry) /Pursuit (charging cavalry), and Counter-Shock.
A unit may use Secondary Shock only once per Phase, with the
exception of Pursuit (charging cavalry only). Non-Charging cav-
alry may not use Pursuit or Breakthrough.
• Breakthrough/Pursuit. If the result was a possible Breakthrough
or Pursuit, an Advancing Attacker may, if the player wishes, Shock
again, but without changing Facing. If the player chooses to con-
tinue, a Commitment Die Roll is not required (i.e., Shock is auto-
EXAMPLE OF SHOCK ATTACK: The French player an-
nounces that his three infantry units will attempt to Shock At-
tack the Russian unit. Napoleon is far away and cannot lend
his Command DRM. The three units are part of a command
that is not Under Orders so the Commitment die rolls must be
modified by +1. In addition, the two top French units in the
frontal hexes must modify their Commitment die roll by +1
for the Russian unit’s Defensive Fire Shock DRM. For (A) he
rolls a 5 (5+1=6) which is greater than the unit’s Cohesion
Value—that unit may not Shock. For the stack (B) he rolls a 4
(4+2 = 6) which is equal to or less than the top unit’s Cohesion
Value so the stack may Shock Attack. The total Shock modi-
fier is +3 in favor of the attacker: +2 for the Odds Ratio (14 to
5 [2-1]) and +1 because the defender is in Clear Terrain. Both
the Attacker and Defender have a Cohesion Level of 6 so no
Cohesion Differential DRM is received. No positional modifi-
ers are available since the flanking French unit failed its Com-
mitment Check. The French player rolls a 5 which is modified
to 8. An 8 results in “Defender Automatic Disorder and Re-
treat Cohesion Check.” The Russian unit is flipped to its Dis-
ordered side and the Russian player makes a Cohesion Check.
If it fails, the unit must be retreated one hex. The attacking
French units must then advance into the vacated hex.

matic), but the attacker must Shock all enemy units in its Frontal
Hexes.
• Counter-Shock. If the result was a possible Counter-Shock, the
defender may move one hex, without changing facing, and shock
any enemy units it places in its Frontal hex(es), as per normal
shock rules. This is resolved before proceeding to any other Shock
resolution. This Counter-Shock does not require a CDR.
9.8 Cavalry Charge
9.81 Cavalry Charge is a version of Shock Combat in which the
cavalry unit starts the Activation at least two hexes, but not more
than three hexes away from its designated target. It does not move
that turn as “Movement”; instead it charges as part of Shock resolu-
tion. Note that cavalry that does not start the Activation adjacent to
an enemy unit must Charge if it wishes to Shock Attack.
RESTRICTIONS:
• Disordered cavalry may not charge. If disordered during the charge
by Reaction Artillery Fire they may continue or try to Recall.
• A cavalry unit may charge only against a target it could see (had
a Line of Sight to) before it would have started its charge.
• Cavalry which begin their Activation in an enemy Zone of Con-
trol may not Charge, and may only use Shock combat against the
unit or units in whose Zone(s) of Control they begin the Activa-
tion.
• TERRAIN: Cavalry may not Charge a unit in a Marsh, Woods or
Village/Castle/Redoubt hex. The Cavalry movement cost of each
hex entered during the Charge, as well as the target hex cannot be
more than 2 Movement Points.
• If the designated route of a Charge passes through (not into) an
enemy cavalry Frontal ZOC, the Charge is not allowed.
PROCEDURE:
STEP 1: The phasing player announces the charge and designates the
target and the one or two hexes being Charged through. The charging
cavalry may change facing up to one vertex per hex entered.
STEP 2: Light Cavalry or Horse Artillery being charged solely by
Heavy Cavalry may retreat before Shock (9.31). If they do, roll for
possible Disorder. The attacker may advance into the vacated hex.
STEP 3: The phasing player performs a Commitment Die Roll for
each stack of cavalry units wishing to charge—use only the top unit
(9.4). Commitment Die Rolls for Charging are never modified by
the defender’s Defensive Fire Rating (note that this is different than
for regular Shock Combat [9.1]). Cavalry that have successfully
passed their Commitment Die Rolls are moved adjacent to the tar-
get hex at this time.
STEP 4: The non-phasing player may attempt to form Square (9.85)
if infantry is the target or try to Counter-Charge (9.86) if cavalry is
the target.
STEP 5: The phasing player may try to Recall his cavalry that are
charging units in Square (9.82).
STEP 6: The non-phasing player may conduct Artillery Reaction
Fire (8.6) at 1-hex range. The phasing player may try to Recall his
cavalry if they are disordered by the Reaction Fire (8.6).
STEP 7: The Charge is resolved as Shock combat benefitting from
the Charge DRMs (9.83).
STEP 8: If a 10+ is rolled on the Shock Table the cavalry units may
pursue (9.87).
STEP 9: All cavalry units that charged are now disordered (9.84).
9.82 Recall. Recall is available only if the target has formed square
or the cavalry was disordered from Artillery Reaction Fire. Roll the
die—if the die roll is less than or equal to the unit’s Cohesion it has
been Recalled. It does not Charge; instead, it stays where it is, chang-
ing facing as it wishes. If the die roll is higher than the unit’s Cohe-
sion, it must Charge.
EXAMPLE OF CAVALRY CHARGE: The French player an-
nounces he will attempt to charge the two Russian units Y and Z.
Cavalry units A and B will charge unit Y, while unit C will charge
Z. Note that all charges are within the two hex limit. The French
player rolls a Commitment die roll for each unit and ignores the
Defensive Fire Ratings on the Russian units. Unit A needs a CDR
≤ 3, units B and C need a CDR of ≤ 4. All three CDRs turn out to
be successful and the French player is now looking at a +3 DRM
(heavy cavalry charging) in the upcoming Shock attack. The Rus-
sian player announces he will attempt to form square with both
units. He needs a CDR of ≤ 6 for unit Y and a CDR of ≤ 5 for unit
Z. Unit Y fails its CDR and becomes disordered (and now has a
cohesion value of 5), while unit Z passes and a Square marker is
placed on it. The French player now wants to try and Recall unit
C because the square formation will cause it to suffer a –2 DRM
to its Shock attack. Unit C needs a CDR of ≤ 4, which it fails and
so must continue with the charge.
A&B: The Shock Attack on Russian unit Y gets a +4 DRM for
Strength Ratio, a +3 DRM for heavy cavalry charging, a –1 DRM
for Cohesion Differential and a +1 DRM for defender in clear
terrain. Cavalry unit B does not qualify for the +3 Positional
Attack DRM because it ends its charge in a frontal hex of a
different enemy unit. The total DRM is +7. The modified die
roll is a 10+ resulting in Automatic Disorder and Retreat and
Pursuit. Since the Russian unit is already Disordered it is re-
moved to the Withdrawn Box and the cavalry unit with the high-
est cohesion advances into the vacated hex and stops. Both A
and B charging cavalry are now disordered.
C: The Shock Attack on Russian unit Z gets a –1 DRM for
Strength Ratio, a –2 DRM for cavalry charging a unit in Square,
a –1 DRM for Cohesion Differential and a +1 for defender in
clear terrain. There are no positional DRMs. The total DRMs is
–3. The modified die roll is 2 resulting in an Attacker Automatic
Disorder and a Retreat Cohesion Check. The cavalry unit is dis-
ordered and must roll a 4 or less to avoid retreating one hex.Since
C is already disordered from the combat result, it does not dis-
order again for the charge.

NOTE: Pursuing Cavalry may not Recall it must charge (9.71).
9.83 Charge DRMs. A Charge earns the following Charge DRM:
• If at least one charging Heavy cavalry unit is involved in Shock,
add three (+3) to the Shock die roll;
• If at least one charging Light (but no Heavy) Cavalry unit is in-
volved in Shock, add one (+1).
The above apply even if the defender is also being attacked, by
infantry and/or non-charging cavalry.
9.84 Automatic Disorder. At the conclusion of a Charge (or Pur-
suit), all charging, counter-charging and/or pursuing cavalry units
become Disordered, except for those already Disordered. This does
not apply to cavalry involved in Shock that are not charging. Charg-
ing Cavalry not actually performing Shock (i.e., Recall) is not Dis-
ordered following Shock resolution.
9.85 Square. Infantry units that are the target of a Charge
(but not a Counter-Charge) and are not Disordered or in
an Enemy ZOC, may attempt to form Square to protect
themselves, even if charged from the Rear.
RESTRICTIONS:
• If there are any Disordered infantry units in a stack, that stack
may not attempt to form Square. Disordered Jaegers and artillery
do not prevent forming square by the infantry in the stack.
• Infantry that is Charged by Pursuing Cavalry may roll to form
Square. Note that the Cavalry may not roll for Recall in this in-
stance.
• Artillery and Jaegers may not do so, unless stacked with infantry,
in which case it does whatever the infantry does.
PROCEDURE: To form Square, roll the die after all Charges have
been declared, using the Cohesion of the top infantry unit in the
stack. If the die roll is the same as or lower than the unit’s Cohesion
the stack has formed Square. Place a Square marker over it. Ιf the
die roll is higher than the unit’s Cohesion, the stack has not formed
Square, and all units in the stack (including Jaegers and artillery)
become Disordered (unless already Disordered, in the case of artil-
lery or Jaegers).
EFFECTS OF SQUARE:
• Charging Cavalry does not gain any Charge benefit. Instead, sub-
tract two (–2) from its Shock die roll.
• Artillery units firing on units in Square receive a +1 DRM. This
is in addition to any Massed Target Modifier.
• Cavalry Charging square may attempt to Recall.
• Units in Square have no ZOC; however, all of the surrounding
hexes are treated as Frontal hexes for purposes of combat and
fire.
• Units in Square may not Shock Attack; however they defend nor-
mally.
• Units in Square may move one hex only, as long as they do not
begin or move into an enemy ZOC, and the terrain being moved
into costs 2 or less Movement Points to enter. There is no Mini-
mum Move for units in Square.
LEAVING SQUARE: It costs 1 Movement Point to leave Square.
Infantry may not leave Square if they are in the ZOC of an enemy
unit. Infantry in Square that suffer a Disorder result go automati-
cally out of Square, in addition to becoming Disordered.
9.86 Counter-Charge. If the target of a Cavalry Charge is a cav-
alry unit that is being charged through its Frontal hexes, the de-
fender may attempt to Counter-Charge. If the target cavalry unit is
Disordered or was in the Frontal ZOC of an enemy unit at the mo-
ment the charge was delcared, it may not Counter-Charge.
DESIGNER’S NOTE: This is the ability of a defending cavalry
unit to counter the inertia of the oncoming enemy troops by sup-
plying some of its own, under the “Best Defense is a Good Of-
fense” theory.
PROCEDURE: Roll a die prior to resolving the Charge, adding two
(+2) to the die roll if the Counter-Charging unit is a Light cavalry
unit attempting to counter-charge oncoming Heavy cavalry:
• if the die roll is the same as or lower than the Counter-Charging
unit’s Cohesion, the counter-charge is successful. The (original)
attacking cavalry unit does not gain any Charge benefit.
• if the die roll is higher than the Counter-Charging unit’s Cohe-
sion, there is no counter-charge and the Charge, or Infantry Shock,
is resolved as per the normal Charge rules.
ADDITIONAL SHOCK DRM: If Light Cavalry Charged, but was
successfully countercharged by Heavy Cavalry, then the Light Cav-
alry suffers a –1 DRM to its Shock die roll.
MULTI-HEX CHARGES: If the Charge is composed of two or more
cavalry units in different hexes, the Counter-Charge need only tar-
get one of the hexes (counter-charging player’s choice).
AGAINST SHOCKING INFANTRY: If the target of an infantry
(only) attack is a cavalry unit that is not Disordered, and it is being
shocked through its Frontal hexes, the defending cavalry may choose
(no die roll necessary) to Retreat, Stand or Counter-Charge. If he
chooses Counter-Charge, the infantry may not attempt to form
Square and the counter-charging cavalry get the usual Charge DRM.
PLAY NOTE: Using infantry to attack cavalry can be a tricky propo-
sition for both players.
9.87 Pursuit. If the charge die roll is 10+, then the charging cavalry
units must Pursue.
PROCEDURE: If the defender retreats, the charging cavalry ad-
vances into the defender’s vacated hex and must immediately con-
duct another charge (see exception below). Pursuing Cavalry must
change facing in order to face towards the unit they are Pursuing . If
the defender was removed (withdrawal), the charging cavalry ad-
vances into the vacated hex and stops.
STACKING RESTRICTIONS: The number of cavalry units that
Pursue is limited only by stacking restrictions. If there are more
units than would be allowed, Heavy Cavalry has precedence, and
then Cohesion Rating. Note that precedence is determined differ-
ently in 9.71.
WHEN PURSUIT IS NOT MANDATORY: If the Pursuit ends with
only the retreating enemy unit in the pursuing unit’s Frontal Hex,
the pursuing cavalry unit(s) must charge that unit. If the Pursuit
ends so that a different enemy unit is also in its Frontal hex, it may,
if the player wishes, shock/charge both units (see 9.22 for multi-
hex shock combat) or stop the pursuit.
DISORDER AND PURSUIT: Automatic Disorder (9.84) is not ap-
plied until the Pursuit is completed.
MULTIPLE PURSUITS: There is no limit to how many times Pur-
suit may occur in a turn; however, each time that a unit Pursuit
Charges, subtract one (–1) from its Shock Combat Table die roll.

10.0 Rally and Recovery
10.1 Rally
Disordered units that have not moved, changed facing, or fired may
undertake Rally attempts at the end of their Activation Group’s
Activation Phase. Units adjacent to an enemy unit may not under-
take Rally. Rally is not dependent upon Orders status.
PROCEDURE: To rally a Disordered unit, roll the die. If the die
roll is the same as or lower than the unit’s (Disordered) Cohesion,
flip the unit to its Normal side and reface it as desired. If the die roll
is greater than the unit’s (Disordered) Cohesion, it fails the Rally
attempt, and remains Disordered.
10.2 The Recovery Phase
In the Recovery Phase, all Withdrawn units in each player’s Recov-
ery Box are eligible for Recovery (and return to the game). If an
entire Activation Group (all units) has been Withdrawn/Eliminated,
none of its units are eligible for Recovery. That Activation Group is
out of the game.
PROCEDURE: To check for Recovery, the player rolls the die for
each eligible unit, comparing the DR to the unit’s Disordered Cohe-
sion Rating. There are no adjustments.
• If the DR is the same as or lower than the Disordered Cohesion,
the unit Recovers, and is returned to the game (10.3).
• If the DR is higher than the Disordered Cohesion, the unit is
permanently eliminated.
SEQUENCE: Most of the time players can perform this phase si-
multaneously. If sequence becomes important players may roll a
die to see who goes first.
10.3 Return to Map
Recovered units are placed back on the map, in Disordered status:
• Within 3 hexes of a unit from the same Activation Group, and
• At least three (3) hexes from an enemy unit. If this is not pos-
sible, the Player must wait for a turn in which it is.
Independent units that Recover must be placed within 3 hexes of a
unit from the same Army.
10.4 Withdrawn Boxes
After all Recovery attempts have been made for a game turn, all
units in the Withdrawn Boxes for each side are moved to the re-
spective Recovery Boxes for attempted Recovery the next turn.
10.5 Collapse
10.51 Each Activation Group will “collapse” (cease to
function as a group) when it takes excessive losses.
Collapse is determined in the Group Morale Phase, prior
to Recovery.
10.52 When at least 2/3 of the units (not strength points) in an Acti-
vation Group— not counting artillery or Russian Militia, they have
no bearing on this rule— have either been Withdrawn or been elimi-
nated, all of the remaining units in that Activation Group are auto-
matically Disordered. Already Disordered units are placed in the
Withdrawn Box, while units already in the Withdrawn Box are elimi-
nated. Units in the Recovery Box are not affected by Collapse. Units
in a Collapsed Activation Group may never recover from Disorder
for the remainder of the game, even if some of the Withdrawn units
return. An Activation Group can collapse only once per game.
EXAMPLES: A group with five units would collapse when it loses
its fourth unit. A group with seven units would collapse when it
loses its fifth unit.
11.0 Jaegers (Not used in BORODINO)
11.1 Movement Properties
Jaegers have the following special Movement properties:
• Stacking (see the Stacking rules).
• Jaegers are treated as a regular infantry unit for Extended Move-
ment.
• Jaegers not stacked with non-Jaeger infantry may not form square.
• Jaeger ZOC is the same as regular infantry.
• Jaegers may not enter an enemy ZOC unless there is already a
friendly unit in that hex.
11.2 Combat Properties of Jaegers
Jaegers have the following special Combat properties:
• SHOCK DEFENSE: Jaegers may add their Strength Points to
those of the entire hex. However, if the player wishes, after his
opponent’s Commitment Die Roll, for which the Jaegers have
supplied a DRM, he may retreat the Jaegers one hex before re-
solving the actual Shock, which means they do not add their SP
in, nor are they affected by, the combat.
• SHOCK ATTACK: Jaegers may never Shock attack by them-
selves. However, if at the top of an attacking stack, the Jaeger
Defensive Fire Rating is subtracted from the Defensive Fire Rat-
ing of the target unit when determining the DRM for Commit-
ment. When used in this manner they are subject to any negative
results incurred.
• JAEGER COHESION: This rating may not be used to determine
Cohesion differential, unless the Jaegers are the only unit being
shocked.
• If alone in a hex when an enemy infantry unit moves into its
ZOC, and not Disordered, Jaegers may retreat one hex regardless
of facing. They may not fire, but the enemy unit stops, ceasing
movement for the turn (no advance). Note this occurs during en-
emy movement, not during Shock.
• Disorder Jaegers may not retreat before combat.
GAME DESIGN: Richard H. Berg
DEVELOPER: William F. Ramsay, Jr.
ORDER OF BATTLE ASSISTANCE: Jonathan Gingerich
ART DIRECTOR: Rodger MacGowan
PACKAGE DESIGN & COUNTER ILLUSTRATIONS: Rodger
MacGowan
MAP ARTWORK: Mark Simonitch
COUNTER & RULES LAYOUT: Mark Simonitch
PRODUCTION COORDINATION: Tony Curtis
PRODUCERS: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy
Lewis and Mark Simonitch
PLAYTESTERS: Jack Polonka
PROOFREADERS: Elis Simpson, Kevin Duke, Stephen
Likevich, Steve Carey, Michael Johnson, Stephen Best
CREDITS

The Battle for the
SCHEVARDINO REDOUBT
September 5, 1812
Introduction
This scenario is an excellent way to learn the game’s movement
and combat systems, as it does not use the Command and Activa-
tion systems of the full game.
Length of Game
Ignore the Turn Track, as this scenario uses a somewhat different
approach. There are five Turns (although here a Turn is somewhat
different). It should take about 2 hours to complete, maybe less.
Game Balance
Heavily favors the French.
HISTORICAL NOTE: When the battle ended and the redoubt had
been captured for good, the French realized that they had not taken
a single unwounded prisoner. It was a portent of things to come.
French Initial Deployment
4307-10
Compans’ Division, I Corps (9 units, incl. artillery)
4215, 4315
Morand’s Division, I Corps (5 units, incl. artillery)
4415
4515, 4615,
Friant’s Division, I Corps (6 units, incl. artillery)
4715
within 1 hex II Cavalry Corps (9 units, excluding artillery)
of 4819
5009
II Cavalry Corps Artillery (2 units)
French Reinforcements
[See Rules below]
Enter
Units
5108
I Cavalry Corps (11 units, including artillery)
4400
V Corps (8 units, including artillery)
Russian Initial Deployment
4008
IV Cavalry Corps Horse Artillery (1 unit)
4006-7
Shakhovsky’s Jaeger Regt (2 units)
4009-10
Gogel’s Jaeger Regt (2 units)
3807-8
27th Division/VIII Corps (2 units)
3810-12
IV Cavalry Corps (6 cavalry units)
3604, 3704
2nd Cuirassiers Cavalry (4 units)
3106, 3206,
2nd Grenadiers/VIII Corps (3 units) and VIII Corps
3306
artillery (2 units)
Turns
This scenario uses no AM, and it does not use the Orders system.
All units are considered “Under Orders”. It consists of five (5)
Turns, in each of which the French move and fight with all their
“active” units, as below, followed by the Russians doing the same.
Each side gets to “go” only once, but they can use all their active
units.
Activating French Units
The French have six “commands”:
• Compans’ Division (starts active)
• Morand’s Division
• Friant’s Division
• I Cavalry Corps (enters as Reinforcements)
• II Cavalry Corps
• V Corps (enters as Reinforcements)
As noted above, only Compans’ Division is automatically active at
the start of the battle. At the beginning of each turn, including the
first, the French player may activate one (and only one) of the other,
inactive, commands. Once activated, that command remains “ac-
tive” for the rest of the battle.

Exception: V Corps may not be so activated until the 3rd Turn at
the earliest.
Russian Activations
All Russian units start the game active and available for use, with
the exception of the 2nd Grenadiers and their accompanying VIII
Corps infantry. Those units become active and available Turn 2.
Movement Restrictions
No French units may move east of the 3600 row (they may move
into the 3600 row). Units forced to so move are eliminated.
No Russian unit may enter 4400 until after the French V Corps
arrives.
The only bridge existing across the Kalatcha River is at 3813.
Winning the Game
The player who occupies the Schevardino Redoubt at the end of the
5th Turn wins.
The Battle of BORODINO
September 7, 1812
Division-Level Command ID
FRANCE:
YG - Young Guard (commanded by Mortier)
OG - Old Guard (commanded by Lefebvre)
WL =Walther (Imperial Guard Cavalry)
MR - Morand (1/I)
FR - Friant (2/I)
GR - Gerard (3/I)
DS - Desaix (4/I)
CM - Compans (5/I)
GI - Girardin (I Corps Cavalry
LD - Ledru des Essarts (10/III)
RZ - Razout (11/III)
MC - Marchand (25th [Wurttemburg]/III)
MU - Mourie (III Corps Cavalry)
DL - Delzons (13/IV)
BR - Broussier (14/IV)
LC - Lecchi (Italian Royal Guard/IV)
ON - Ornano (IV Corps Cavalry)
BV - Bavarian Cav/IV (commanded by von Preysing-Moos)
KR - Krasinski (16/V)
KN - Kniaziewicz (18/V)
SB - Sebastiani (V Corps Cavalry)
TH - Tharreau (23/VIII)
OC - Ochs(24/VIII)
BY - Bruyeres (1st Light/I Cav Corps)
SG - Saint-Germaine (1st Hvy/1st Cav Corps)
VL - Valence (5th Hvy/1st Cav Corps)
PJ - Pajol (2nd Light/II Cav Corps)
WT - Wathier (2nd Hvy/II Cav Corps)
DF - Defrance (4th Hvy/II Cav Corps)
CH - Chastel (3rd Light/III Cav Corps)
HY - La Houssaye (6th Hvy/III Cav Corps)
RN - Rozniecki (4th Light/IV Cav Corps)
LR - Lorge (7th Hvy/IV Cav Corps)
Russian Wings
The two Russian armies were further divided into “wings”, an ef-
fect not covered in this game.
• Miloradovich commanded the Right Wing (II, IV, and the I and II
Cavalry Corps);
• Dokturov commanded the Center (VI Corps and III Cav Corps);
• Gorchakov commanded the Left Wing (VII, and VIII Corps plus
IV Cav Corps; and
• Constantine commanded the Reserves (V Corps, the Artillery Re-
serve and several other contingents).
Additional Abbreviations
RUSSIAN:
CGB - Combined Grenadier Brigade
CGD - Combined Grenadier Division
LG – Leibguards (Life Guards)
Cur or Cr - Cuirassier
Jgr - Jaegers
Length of Game
The battle starts with the 0600 Game-Turn and ends at the conclu-
sion of the 1945 Game-Turn. It should take about 5 hours to play
… unless you linger over each move.
Game Balance
Historically, it was a very close “victory” for Napoleon.
French Initial Deployment
[Units may be faced as desired]
3908
Napoleon
Imperial Guard
4108-09
Old Guard (4 units)
4209-10
Lnb/YG and Boy/YG (2 units)
4308-9
Vistula Legion of the Young Guard (2 units)
4110-12
Imperial Guard Cavalry (5 units)
4409-11, 4508-9
Imperial Guard Artillery (9 units)
I Corps (Davout) [a]

3614, 3713, 3813 Morand’s (MR) Division (3 units) [a]
4005-7
Friant’s (FR) Division (4 units)
3714-5, 3815
Gerard’s (GR) Division (3 units)
3905-6
Dessaix’s (DS) Division (4 units)
3706-7, 3806-7
Compans’ (CM) Division (7 units)
3709
DS artillery (1 unit)
3607-10
MR, FR, GR and CM Artillery (2 units each)
3708
I Corps Reserve Artillery (1 unit)
III Corps (Ney) [b]
3710-12
III Corps infantry (7 units)
3611-13
III Corps Artillery (5 units)
IV Corps (Prince Eugene) [a]
3618-19
Delzon’s (DL) Division (4 units)
3817-8
Broussier’s (BR) Division (4 units)
3916-7
Lecchi’s (LC) Italian Royal Guard (2 units)
3622-3, 3721-2
IV Corps Cavalry (4 units)
3517-19
IV Corps Artillery (6 units, incl. horse artillery)
V Corps (Poniatiowski; the Polish Corps)
3801-2
Krasinski’s (KR) Division (3 units)
3900-1
Kniaziewicz’s (KN) Division (2 units)
4001-4100
Sebastiani’s (SB) Cavalry (2 units)
3801, 3900,
V Corps Artillery (3 units)
 4000
VIII Corps (Junot; the Westphalian Corps)
3810-11
Tharreau’s (TH) Division (3 units)
3911
Legras’ Brigade of Och’s (OC) Division (1 unit)
4012
von Hammerstein’s VIII corps cavalry (1 unit)
3910
VIII Corps artillery units ( 2 units)
The Cavalry Reserve (Murat)
I Cavalry Corps
4203-4, 4303-4,
I Cavalry Corps (9 units, excluding artillery)
 4405
4403
I Cavalry Corps Horse Artillery (2 units)

II Cavalry Corps
4205-6, 4305-6,
II Cavalry Corps (9 units, excluding artillery)
 4406-7
4207
II Cavalry Corps Horse Artillery (2 units)
III Cavalry Corps
On Road
III Cavalry Corps (6 units, including artillery)
4015-4515
IV Cavalry Corps
4202, 4302
IV Cavalry Corps (3 units, excluding artillery)
4402
IV Cavalry Corps Horse Artillery (1 unit)
Attached Cavalry
4505
I Corps Cavalry (2 units) [a]
4407
III Corps Cavalry (2 units) [b]
4506
III Corps Cavalry Horse Artillery (1 unit) [b]
a—Morand’s and Gerard’s Divisions are attached to IV Corps. The
I Corps cavalry is attached to the I Cavalry Corps of Murat’s Cav-
alry Reserve.
b—The III Corps cavalry is attached to the II Cavalry Corps of
Murat’s Cavalry Reserve.
A Note on French Cohesion Ratings: The Cohesion Ratings of
French infantry and, especially, the cavalry, are based on the fact
the march into Russia had sapped the strength of La Grand Armee
to the point where it was acting at about 50% efficiency. Cavalry
strength, in terms of mounts available, had been reduced drasti-
cally.
A Note on French Artillery Movement Ratings: The reduced Move-
ment Allowances for French artillery reflect the very sorry state of
their horses.
Russian Initial Deployment
Any Hex
Kutuzov
1st Western Army (Barclay-de-Tolly)
Independent Units
within 1 hex
Vlasov and 3 Bug Cossacks (2 units)
 of 2226
1624
Paskov Jaeger Regt (2 units)
3217, 3316
LG Jaeger Regt (2 units)
2717-18
11th and 13th Jaeger Regts
2720-1
Vuich’s Jaeger Regt (2 units)
2623, 2421
Aleksapol’s ‘a’ and b Jaeger Regts [a]
1617-8, 1716-7,
Platov’s Cossacks (8 units, incl. horse artillery)
 1816-7, 1916
1821, 1920
Smolensk Militia (2 units)
II Corps (Baggovut)
2023-5
4th Division (3 units)
1923-4
17th Division (2 units)
1520, 1620
II Corps Artillery (2 units)
IV Corps (Osterman-Tolstoy)
2221, 2320,
11th Division (4 units)
 2420, 2519
2220, 2319,
23rd Division (3 units)
 2419
2719
IV Corps artillery (1 unit)
VI Corps (Dokhturov) [c]
2716, 2816
7th Division (2 units)
2715, 2815
24th Division (2 units)
2716, 2816
VI Corps Artillery (2 units)
1st Cavalry Corps (Uvarov)
1317-8, 1417-8
I Cav Corps (5 units, including horse artillery)
II Cavalry Corps (Korff)
2119, 2219,
II Cav Corps (5 units, including horse artillery)
 2318, 2418
III Cavalry Corps (Kreutz)
2517-8, 2617-9
III Cav Corps (5 units, including horse artillery)
2nd Western Army (Bagration)
Independent Units
3215, 3213
Gogel’s Jaeger Regt (2 units)
2810-11
Shakhovsky’s Jaeger Regt (2 units)
2812
2nd Combined Grenadiers (1 unit)
2710-11
2nd Cuirassier Cavalry Division (4 units)
3001-2, 3100-1
Karpov’s Cossacks (4 units)
2801-5
Moscow Militia (5 units)
2507-8, 2608
All 4SP Artillery units of the 2nd Western Artil-
lery Reserve [d], one per hex (3 units)
3010, 3008,
All 3 SP units of the 2nd Western Artillery
 2812
Reserve [d], one per hex (3 units)
III Corps (Tuchkov)
3102-4
1st Grenadier Division (3 units)
3003-4
3rd Division (2 units)
3105-6
Aleksapol’s ‘c’ and ‘d’ Jaeger Regts (2 units) [b]
3203, 3102-4
III Corps Artillery (5 units) [c]
VII Corps (Rayevski)
3113-4
12th Division (4 units)
3014-5
26th Division (4 units)
3113-4
VII Corps Artillery (2 units)
VIII Corps (Borozdin)
3008-10
2nd Grenadier Division (3 units)
2908-9
27th Division (2 units)
2907
VIII Corps Artillery (2 units)

IV Cavalry Corps (Sievers)
2913-4, 2814
IV Cavalry Corps (6 units)
2915
IV Cavalry Horse Artillery (1 unit)
The Reserve (Constantine)
2311-13,
1st, 2nd and 3rd LG Divisions (5 units) plus the
 2412-15
1st Combined Grenadiers (2 units)
2212-4
1st Cuirassier Cavalry Division (3 units)
2015, 2115-7,
1st Western Army’s Artillery Reserve (20 units) [e]
 2215-7
a The ‘c’ and ‘d’ units of Aleksapol’s Jaeger’s have been assigned
to the Left Wing / 2nd Western Army.
b The ‘a’ and ‘b’ units of Aleksapol’s Jaeger’s have been assigned
to the independent units of the 1st Western Army.
c This group of 72 guns was a sort of reserve attached to Tuchkov’s
Utisa command
d The exact deployment of about half of these guns is difficult to
determine
e These units may overstack to 3 per hex until they move or fire.
Then they must obey normal stacking rules. This group com-
prises half the guns in the Russian army.
Reinforcements
Neither side has any Reinforcements.
Initiative
The French automatically have the Initiative for the 0600 game-
turn. After that, it’s by die roll.
Combined Group Activation
Neither side has this capability, and the markers may not be used.
SPECIAL RULES
1. Russian Command and Activation
During the Orders Phase the Russian player rolls a die and consults
the Delay Rating on Kutusov. If he passes his Delay Roll (5.29), he
removes the Orders Markers from the previous turn and then
secrectly places new ones (5.21). He can either:
• put 3* commands of Barclay’s 1st Army Under Orders,
• put 2* commands of Bagration’s 2nd Army Under Orders,
• put 1 command of the Russian Reserve Under Orders.
*The Russian player may reduce this number by one and place the
Russian Artillery Barrage marker in the Activation Pool.
If he does not pass his Delay roll, all the Orders Markers from last
turn remain in effect.
NOTE: Kutusov does not roll for Delay on Turn 1.
Barclay’s Army has seven (7) possible Activation Groups, includ-
ing all the 1st Western Army “independent” units (to which we have
assigned the Cossacks).
Bagration’s army has five (5) Activation Groups, including all the
2nd Western Army independent units.
The Reserve is comprised of two (2) Activation Groups: the “Guard”
(all infantry) plus the 1st Curraissier Division, and the Artillery
Reserve of the 1st Western Army. If the Reserve is not given Orders
by Kutuzov in the Orders Phase, it may not move or try to Change
Orders.
INDIVIDUAL ACTIVATION: Activation Groups that do not re-
ceive Orders, and are not part of the Reserve, must wait until their
AM is drawn to try and change their Orders as per 5.28.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Barclay and Bagration were not on speak-
ing terms, and neither was overly happy to have Kutuzov around.
2. The French Cavalry Reserve
The French cavalry Reserve consist of four cavalry corps (I, II, III
and IV), plus the attached divisions of I and III Corps. All of these
units are under the Command of, and are activated by, Murat (and
his AM).
However, if Napoleon gives Orders to his Cavalry Reserve, Murat
must transmit those Orders, as per the second rating on his AM
counter.
The small number—‘2’—represents the number of Cavalry com-
mands—of the six, above—that may be given Orders directly, with-
out die roll, in the Orders Phase,
The larger number—‘5’—is the Orders Rating for those commands
not given Orders (the other four).
EXAMPLE: It’s the 0830 Game Turn. Napoleon uses one of his
Orders points to allow Murat to give Orders in the Orders Phase.
Murat gives Orders to Grouchy’s II Cavalry Corps and Nansouty’s
I Cavalry Corps. All other cavalry commands are without Orders.
The Murat AM is drawn. The French player decides to try to change
the Orders of Montbrun’s II Cavalry Corps. He rolls a ‘6’. The or-
ders have not arrived and Montbrun, as per 5.28, sits awaiting fur-
ther instructions.
3. The French Imperial Guard
Units of the Imperial Guard may be activated only if they have been
Given Orders by Napoleon in the Orders phase. They may not
“Change” Orders, which is why Mortier’s AM says “Nap”.
4. Artillery Barrage AM
Players may use their Artillery Barrage AM only when they have
“Given Orders” (in the Orders Phase) to do so.
5. Activation Marker: Destruction
The Russians have a special Activation Marker: De-
struction. They may use this, when it is drawn, with-
out needing any Command or Activation Points. The
Destruction AM always goes into the Pool. Placement
therein is not voluntary.
Key:
White Pin Stripe = Barclay’s 1st Army
Yellow Pin Stripe = Bagration’s 2nd Army
Dashed Pin Stripe = Reserve Units
Army Designation Pin Stripe
Russian Army Designations

When the Destruction AM is drawn, the Russian player may either
set fire to one Village, or destroy one bridge – he may not do both.
Burn Village: To set fire to a Village, the Russian Player
must have an infantry unit in that village hex, and there
may be no enemy unit adjacent to the hex. He announces
he is burning the village. He moves the infantry unit to
any adjacent hex not adjacent to an enemy unit and to
which the unit could normally move. There is no cost to
move, and the unit is not, nor does it have to be, acti-
vated or under Orders. Place an On Fire marker in the
hex.
No unit may enter a hex with an On Fire marker. However, every
time the Destruction AM is drawn, roll one die:
• If the dr is 0–3, the fire is out. Flip the counter to “Rubble” and
use the Rubble line on the Terrain Effects Chart.
• If the dr is 4–9, the fire still blazes.
Destroy Bridge: The Russian Player may destroy any
bridge to which he has an infantry unit adjacent, there
is no enemy unit adjacent and there is no enemy artil-
lery unit within “Effective” Range. Simply place a
“Bridge Destroyed” marker over the bridge.
PLAY NOTE: There is not much chance of the Russians ever get-
ting an opportunity to destroy a bridge, but one never knows, does
one?
HISTORICAL NOTE: Russian villages were entirely constructed
of timber. As such, they offered very little in the way of “protec-
tion”, and, with their narrow streets, were difficult to move through.
Burning them down was a good way to deny any movement into
that “hex”. Hex 3213 is the site of the village of Shmynovskaya,
which had been torched the previous day and was now just a pile of
ashes.
6. Kutuzov’s Movement
Kutuzov wasn’t in the best of shape, and was hardly able to get onto
a horse. For the most part, he was carried around in a nice little
carriage, which kept him comfortable but greatly reduced his mo-
bility. Thus, Kutuzov has a Movement Allowance of ‘4’ (but still
moves as a commander)..
7. Napoleon’s Movement
Napoleon was suffering from what would be-
come more common as his career dragged on:
a curious lethargy probably brought on by a
bladder infection (at Borodino) and other psy-
chological factors. To reflect this, before the
French Player can move Napoleon (in the
Overall Commander Movement Phase) he rolls
the die. The result is the number of Move-
ment Points (from 0 to 9) Napoleon has that
turn.
8. Extended Movement Restrictions
The Russians may not use Extended Movement.
9. Notes on Terrain
Elevations: The ground at the Borodino battlefield was mostly gently
rolling. However, those slight rises and “valleys” are too minimal
to be handled at the scale of the game. The “Level-1” terrain behind
the Russian redoubts is a large depression (which was what almost
everybody was feeling at the end of the day.)
Streams: The several streams cutting through the battlefield were
not wide. However, their banks varied from gradual to almost (mili-
tarily) uncrossable.
Fords: Roads only negate the movement cost of crossing Streams
where there is a ford symbol.
The Moskva River: Units may not cross the Moskva River, except
by bridge (at no extra cost).
The Utitsa Woods: Long a source of contention among game play-
ers and designers, and often given as the reason Napoleon did not
attempt Davout’s suggested flanking maneuver, we have opted to
use recent information which shows the area immediately around
the village of Utitsa was clear of the thick, tangled bush and sec-
ondary growth to the north and south. The greater bulk of what we
call “woods” was off-map (to the south), and is what the sources
refer to when discussing the Davout Flank.
10. Stacking
Artillery may stack up to 8 SP’s per hex, if there are no other units
in that hex (not 6 as per 6.21).
11. Cossacks
Russian Cossack cavalry units have no back side and so are placed
in the Withdrawn Box if they are disrupted. For Shock combat pur-
poses, Cossack cavalry units are treated as Light Cavalry.
12. Russian Jaegers
Russian Jaeger units are jaegers in name only; none of the rules for
jaegers apply to them.
13. Russian Militia
The Russians have 7 Militia units, representing a large number of
useless troops, mostly armed with pikes and little or no training.
The hope was their presence would add to the perception that the
Russians had more men than they effectively had. The Russian mi-
litia units have the following properties:
• They may not stack with any other units, even other militia.
• They have no Zones of Control.
• They may not attack.
• The do not count towards collaspe.
• If they suffer any adverse result, they are, instead, eliminated.
14. French Flanking Maneuver (Optional)
Here’s the rule to either warm the hearts of Napoleonic gamers (and
Borodino Buffs), or give those same hearts a 3-Tum burn.
Davout had suggested to The Emperor that a fair-sized force be sent
to the French right, around the Russian position at Utitsa, to catch
the Russian left in the rear and, at least, to force them to pull back
their wing to face it. Napoleon mulled it over for a short while.
Then, seeing his (usually excellent) maps showed extensive, heavily
wooded areas in that region, decided against it, insisting he had no
idea how long it would take such a force to accomplish such a move-
ment and, if it took too long, would greatly weaken his attack on the
Russian center. You can see if he was right or wrong.
Prior to beginning actual play, the French Player must decide if he
is going to undertake a Flanking maneuver. He makes a note of his
decision and the Turn in which the units he has chosen to so move

will do so. It requires one of Napoleon’s Orders to fully activate the
chosen units, and those units are considered to be one Orders Com-
mand, regardless of the location of each unit in that group.
At the end the Turn Napoleon has chosen to undertake the Flanking
Maneuver, all chosen units not adjacent to an enemy unit are re-
moved from the Board and placed in the Flank Maneuver Box.
Beginning two turns after the units are placed in the Flank Maneu-
ver Box , at the start of every Turn the French Player places one of
his “Flanking Command” AMs in The Pool (or may choose to use it
as his selected AM if he won the Initative). For example, if the units
were placed in the Flank Maneuver Box on Turn 2, beginning Turn
4 the AM is eligible for Pool placement or selection.
When that AM is drawn/selected, the French Player rolls two six-
sided dice:
• If he rolls an (adjusted) 12 or more, the Flanking units may enter
the map through any southern edge hex from 2400 to 2800 inclu-
sive.
• If he rolls an adjusted 7–11, nothing happens—try again next
turn, but add one (+1) to the dice roll. He receives the +1 each
time a 7–11 is rolled and they do accumulate.
• If he rolls an adjusted 2-6, he may choose to recall the Flanking
units and have them enter the game-map through any southern
edge hex from 3500 to 5100 inclusive. Or he may treat it as
Nothing Happened. There is no DR addition.
No Russian unit may enter hexes 2400-2800 inclusive until the
French Flanking Command has re-entered the map.
The Flanking Command is always Under Orders; there is no need
to expend one of Napoleon’s Orders points to do so.
14. Winning the Game
“If we kill more Frenchmen than they kill Russians, we win. If the
French kill more Russians than we kill Frenchmen, they win.”
“What do we win?”
“Do you want your children to be forced to eat all those fatty French
foods and souflés?”
—from Woody Allen’s “Love and Death”
The game is won by the player who amasses the most Victory Points.
As Napoleonic battles sought to crush and destroy the opponent’s
army, VP are awarded mostly for causing enemy Activation Groups
to Collapse. In addition, the game has geographic objectives, to re-
flect each side’s plan for that day. VP are totaled at the end of the
game and awarded as follows:
15. Group Collapse VP
The French get 3 VP for each Russian Activation Group, other than
the Russian Imperial Guard (V Corps), that Collapses. They re-
ceive 10 VP for the Russian Imperial Guard.
The Russians get 4 VP for each French Activation Group, other
than the French Imperial Guard, that Collapses. They receive 10
VP for the French Imperial Guard.
16. Geographic VP
The Coalition receives 10 VP for occupying hex 3417
The French receive 10 VP for occupying hex 3417
The player with the most VP wins – the larger the margin, the greater
the victory.

GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
Shock Resolution Table
Adjusted
Die Roll
Result
< 0
• Attacker Automatic Disorder
• Possible Defender Advance and Counter-Shock
0–4
• Attacker Automatic Disorder
5–9
• Defender Automatic Disorder
10+
• Defender Automatic Disorder and Retreat
• Possible Breakthrough Shock (Infantry) or
 Pursuit (Cavalry)*
*Non-charging cavalry may not use Breakthrough or Pursuit.
Explanation of Results:
Shock Results apply to all units in the hex. Apply the printed
result first; if any additional effects result occur (e.g., unit
Withdraws) apply that afterwards.
RETREAT COHESION CHECK: Each affected unit must
undergo a Cohesion Check die roll. If the die roll is higher
than its Cohesion, the unit must retreat one hex.
AUTOMATIC DISORDER: All units in the target hex are
disordered.
AUTOMATIC RETREAT: The defender retreats one hex.
POSSIBLE DEFENDER ADVANCE AND COUNTER-
SHOCK: See 9.73
POSSIBLE BREAKTHROUGH SHOCK OR PURSUIT:
See 9.73
Dieroll Modifiers for Shock
+/–? Strength Ratio (9.51).
+/–? Cohesion Differential (9.52).
+/–? Terrain of Defender. Note that some terrain adjusts
the Cohesion Check DR, not the Shock DR.
Rear Positional Modifier (9.54).
Front and Rear Positional Modifier (9.54)
Heavy Cavalry Charging (9.83).
Light Cavalry Charging (9.83).
Cavalry Charging Square (9.85).
Light Cavalry Charging, but successfully
countercharged by Heavy Cavalry (9.86).
Cumulative Pursuit Cavalry Charges (9.87).
Automatic Disorder: Charging Cavalry is automatically
Disordered after pursuit unless it is already Disordered.
Artillery Fire Resolution
Adjusted
Die Roll
Result
< 9
No Effect*
9–12
Disorder Cohesion Check
13–14
Automatic Disorder
15+
Automatic Disorder, Retreat**
*on an unadjusted roll of 2 or less, check for Misguided Friendly
Fire (8.8)
**If the unit is in a Village it does not retreat.
Dieroll Modifiers
If the target is in Square (9.85).
Stacked Artillery Firing (8.2).
Fire at a range of one hex (adjacent) against non-
artillery units.
Fire within Maximum Range. DRM is for each hex
beyond Effective Range.
+?
Artillery Barrage. The player may fire all artillery
units, and may combine the fire of any artillery units
that are stacked or adjacent. Add two (+2) to the die
roll for each unit over the first.
For each non-artillery unit in the target hex beyond
the first (Massed Target, 8.9).
?
Terrain (see the Terrain Chart)
Explanation of Results
DISORDER COHESION CHECK: Each target unit must
undergo a Cohesion Check Dieroll. If the die roll is higher
than its Cohesion, it suffers a Disorder Result.
AUTOMATIC DISORDER: All units in the target hex are
Disordered.
AUTOMATIC DISORDER, RETREAT: All units in the
target hex are Disordered and must retreat one hex.
Strength Ratio DRM Chart (9.51)
Odds/Ratio
Shock DRM
4–1 or higher
+4
3–1
2–1
3–2
1–1
none
2–3
1–2
1–3
–3
1–4 or worse
–4