A diabolic card game fort 2 to 6 players of 14 years and up.
 
SUMMARY: 
- COMPONENTS
- ABOUT THE GAME/OBJECTIVE
- INDIVIDUAL MODUS (3 - 4 PLAYERS)
 VARIANTS:
- TEAM MODE (4 - 6 PLAYERS)
- THE SECOND BOTTLE (5 - 6 PLAYERS)
- DEVIL’S EYE (2 PLAYERS)
ABOUT THE GAME/OBJECTIVE
Just as many others trick-taking card games, the idea of The Bottle 
Imp is to acquire the most points. The Bottle Imp works in a way 
that ensures that the highest card does not always take the trick.
The player with the highest valued card that still fits under the price 
of the Bottle Imp receives the trick as well as the Bottle Imp. The 
value of the Bottle Imp then falls to the value of the winning card.
The owner of the Bottle Imp changes until its value can no longer 
be undercut. Whoever owns the Bottle Imp at the end of the game 
receives minus points instead of positive points.
Bottel Imp can be played in individual mode or team mode. The 
individual mode for 3 – 4 players contains the basic rules, which also 
apply to the variants.
SETUP
Place the hell card face up at the center of the table, and put the 
bottle on it. Each player gets an overview card, and places it with the 
neutral side face up. All players receive the same number of cards 
from the 36 cards set.
STARTING THE GAME
Each player starts by discarding one card. The discarded cards 
will be placed below the hell card and will be named «The Devil’s 
Trick». Players cannot look at the cards in The Devil’s Trick. 
Then all players exchange two cards : one card with their right-
hand neighbor and one card with their left-hand neighbor. 
To do this, each player 
places two cards face down 
in front. When all players 
have done so, they take the 
corresponding cards given 
to them by the players on 
their left and right.
COMPONENTS
• 54 cards (18 of each color: yellow, red and blue).
They contain numbers (for ranking) and merit points (victory 
points).
The basic set consists of 36 cards. It contains all numbers from 
1 to 37. 
The version for two, three or four players is played just with the 
basic set.
The additional set contains 18 cards. It contains every even 
number from the basic set increased by 0,5 (for example, 2,5 and 
4,5 and 6,5 etc.). 
The colors and merit points of a pair card is exact the 
same as the pair card with the raised number (+0,5). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• You will need a paper and pencil to keep track of the points.
2 Rulebooks
2 Bottles 
("tempered in 
the flames of hell").
6 Overview cards: one side 
is neutral, the other shows the 
color of the team.
1 Hell card. It contains the 
starting price of the bottle imp 
(= 19).
2,5
12,5
22,5
20,5
28,5
34,5
36,5
10,5
26,5
4,5
18,5
6,5
8,5
14,5
30,5
16,5
32,5
24,5
All cards 
(back)
Example 
cards 
(front)
Before we continue, just a few words on the ownership of 
the Bottle. It’ll help to understand the game mechanik: 
"Of glass it is but the glass of it was tempered in the flames of hell. An 
imp lives in it, and that is the shadow we behold there moving: or so 
I suppose. If any man buy this bottle the imp is at his command; all 
that he desires - love, fame, money, houses ... - all are his at the word 
uttered ... There is one thing the imp cannot do - he cannot prolong 
life; and, it would not be fair to conceal from you, there is a drawback 
to the bottle; for if a man die before he sells it, he must burn in hell 
forever ... it cannot be sold at all, unless sold at a loss. If you sell it for 
as much as you paid for it, back it comes to you again like a homing 
pigeon ...
Only remember it must be coined money that you sell it for ..."
(from "The Bottle Imp" by Robert Louis Stevenson)
“
of players
of cards
Teams (2)
and single 
players (1)
of bottle 
imps
The team partner is always 
the player sitting farest away
1-1-1
There is no team mode with 
three players
1-1-1-1
2-1-1
The dealer and the 
player opposite them play 
individually, while the other 
players play as a team.
1-1-1-1-1
The dealer is dealt one fewer 
card. They don’t discard a 
card into The Devil’s Trick. 
They are playing alone even 
in the team mode.
2-2-1
1-1-1-1-1-1
2-2-2
The only example where the 
dealer plays in team.
2-2-1-1
The dealer and player oppo-
site them play individually.
1-1
The Devil’s Eye, the two 
player version, uses a few 
face up cards and 4 cards 
per trick.
= Single modus = (3-4 players)
Front
Back
“
INDIVIDUAL MODE (3-4 PLAYERS)
Designer : Günter Cornett 
Illustrator : Maxime MORIN 
Art director: Maxime ERCEAU
Editorial director : 
Arnaud CHARPENTIER
Proofreader: Valentin LE LAY
 
Neutral side
Color of team side
BOTTLE IMP
LE DIABLE DANS 
LA BOUTEILLE
BOTTLE IMP

THE BOTTLE IMP
The Bottle Imp can always be re-sold as long as the new buying price 
is lower than the last buying price.
If somebody plays a card with a value that is lower than the current 
value of the Bottle Imp, then the Bottle Imp automatically transfers 
to a new owner at the end of the trick. If only one player has played a 
card with a value lower than the Bottle Imp’s value, then this player 
gains ownership of the Bottle Imp and wins the trick. If several 
players played cards with values that are lower than the Bottle Imp’s, 
then the player who played the highest value card out of those cards 
gains ownership of the Bottle Imp and wins the trick.
The card used by the player to win both the Bottle Imp and the trick 
is placed face up, under the Bottle Imp. It becomes the new value of 
the Bottle Imp. The card which indicated the previous value of the 
Bottle Imp is added to the taken trick pile of the former owner of 
the Bottle Imp. (This can be the same person as the current owner.)
At the start of the game, no one owns the Bottle Imp and it has a 
value of 19.
EXAMPLE 
The value of the Bottle Imp is 19. The following cards are played:
Adam: 24, Betty: 15, Christian: 17, Doris: 32.
Adam and Doris played cards of a higher value than the Bottle 
Imp (19) while Betty and Christian played cards of a lower value. 
Out of Betty and Christian, Christian wins the trick and also gains 
ownership of the Bottle Imp, because his card has the higher value 
(and is close to the Bottle Imp’s value).
The new price of the Bottle Imp becomes 17. The 17 card is placed 
under the Bottle Imp. The next trick is always led by the player who 
took the previous trick (in this case Christian).
END OF GAME
When all cards have been played, each player receives the merit 
points value of the cards in their taken tricks.
There is one exception: instead of scoring positive points, the player 
who owns the Bottle Imp receives the total value of the devil’s trick in 
negative points as a penalty.After a pre-arranged number of games 
(e.g. every player dealt two times), the player with the highest total 
of merit points wins.
TIPS
Discarding and passing cards (at the beginning of the round): 
In general, it is a good idea to pass your lowest cards to your 
neighbors. Vital game information is also passed with every 
exchanged card. For example, if a player gives their neighbor the 
Two and receives the One back, then the game is lost if the neighbor 
succeeds in taking the Bottle Imp with the Two (unless the player 
manages to play the One in the same trick).
It is also a good idea to get rid of a full suit, in order to have more 
choices each turn. Thus, you should also pay attention if, for 
example, one of your neighbours frequently passes green cards.
In any case, you should try to note which cards were passed and 
delivered, and to/from which players. 
 
THANKS
FOR PLAYTESTING
Alexander B.
Bettina M.
Daniel J.
Felix H.
Jenny W.
Jochen K.
Jonas M.
Karsten L.
Margret D.
Mario K.
Regina P.
Ronald B.
Stefan N.
Wincenty G.
THE TRICK GAME 
Play proceeds clockwise. The player to the left of the dealer 
begins and plays a card. He will become the dealer for the next 
round. No matter which color is played, the other players must 
follow suit (play a card of the same color as the initial card). 
If a player cannot follow suit, they may instead play a card of any 
color. If the value of each played card is higher than the current 
value of the Bottle Imp, the player who played the highest numbered 
card wins the trick, regardless of whether or not they followed suit.
SCORING
Players on the same team add their points together and both gain 
the combined total.
Individual players double their points from the round.
And, of course, if either member of a team ends the game with the 
Bottle Imp, both players lose the game. Instead of positive points, 
each of them receive the negative points from The Devil’s Trick. If an 
individual player ends with the Bottle Imp, the negative points they 
gain from The Devil’s Trick are also doubled. 
SCORING
At end of the round, each bottle gives the owner the negative points 
of The Devil’s Trick (and they score no points for their taken tricks).
If each bottle is owned by two different players, each of them 
receives loses these points. A player owning both bottles loses points 
twice (and scores no points for their taken tricks).
PREPARATION
4 PLAYERS: Use just the 36 cards of the basic set .
5 - 6 PLAYERS: Use all 54 cards.
5 PLAYERS: The dealer is dealt one fewer card. Therefore, 
they don’t discard a card into The Devil’s Trick.
Teams are made up of two players sitting opposite each other. 
If there are individual players, the dealer is always an individual 
player. If playing with two individual players, then the individual 
players should sit opposite each other. Members of the same team 
should use overview cards of the same color. Individual players 
should use overview cards with the neutral side face up.
In Team Mode, players compete as teams of two players alongside 0, 
1, or 2 individual players. 
PREPARATION
These variant uses both bottles. Use all 54 cards. In case of a five 
players game, the dealer is dealt one fewer card. Therfore, they don’t 
discard a card into The Devil’s Trick. Both bottles start on the hell 
card with a price of 19.
PLAYING THE GAME
The player who first wins a trick by playing a card below #19 takes a 
bottle of their choice. From now on, the sold bottle will always be the 
one with the highest value (even if the new price is lower than the 
price of the cheaper bottle).
The 17 wins the trick and 
slides into the bottle for the 
next trick. 
DURING TRICK TAKING:
It is better to quickly play the cards which values are slightly under 
the starting price, in order to win cards with high value. If the price 
of the Bottle Imp sinks immediately, it will no longer be possible 
to do this. In order to not get stuck with the Bottle Imp at the end 
of the game, you should try to play the low value cards when they 
won’t win the Bottle Imp. This can be done safely if cards of higher 
values but below the Bottle Imp’s price have already been played in 
the same trick (or earlier). 
It can be tempting to put many points into an (apparently) regular 
trick, but this is also risky. For example, if a player takes the 31 with 
the 37, the next player could take the trick (together with the Bottle 
Imp) by playing of a very low value card.
In general, noting which cards have already been played is very 
important.
TEAM MODE (4 - 6 PLAYERS)
THE SECOND BOTTLE (5 - 6 PLAYERS)
1. Deal to every player 2 hands face down:
- First hand: 6 cards
- Second hand: 12 cards
2. Both players remove from their second hand:
- 2 cards to place in The Devil’s Trickbelow the hell card
- 1 card to place in their opponent’s first hand
- 1 card to place in their opponent’s second hand
3. Both players then reveal the 7 cards of their first hand, which 
they place face up in front of them 
in the form of an arc. Both arcs 
together form “The Devil’s Eye”.
4. Each trick consists of 4 cards, 2 
from each player. They take turns 
playing cards until there are 4 
cards in the trick. Players are free to 
choose from which hand they play.
5. Following the suit is only 
required for the chosen hand.
For example:
Player B has blue cards in their first hand, but not in their second 
hand. Player A plays blue, which player B now has to follow 
(if possible). Player B may decide to play either a blue card from 
their first hand or any card of their choice from their second hand.
DEVIL’S EYE (2 PLAYERS)
Bambus Spieleverlag
Günter Cornett
Kopfstraße 43
D-12053 Berlin 
(GERMANY) 
Edited by Matagot Edition
161 rue fernand Audeguil 
33000 BORDEAUX
(FRANCE) 
 www.matagot.com