Welcome to 
Britannia
 
Welcome to a land of sweeping history. Welcome to 
a land that the Romans, the Angles, the Saxons, and a 
dozen other peoples warred over for a thousand years. 
Welcome to the land of King Arthur, Alfred the Great, 
Harald the Ruthless, and William the Conqueror. 
Welcome to Britannia.
Britannia is a historical board game that broadly 
depicts the millennium-long struggle for control of 
England, Scotland, and Wales. The game begins with the 
Roman invasion of 43 A.D., continues through the many 
struggles between Angles, Saxons, Picts, Norsemen, 
Scots, Irish, and other nations, and ends with the 
Norman invasion of 1066. 
Britannia allows players to re-create this epic history, 
re-enacting important battles in some cases, altering the 
course of history in others. The game rules discourage 
players from making historically unrealistic moves, but 
also give players the freedom to alter Great Britain’s 
history in important ways, creating countless interesting 
“what if?” scenarios. What if Boudicca’s Revolt against 
the Romans had been more successful? What if the 
Romans and the Romano-British had repelled the Saxon 
invasions of the 5th and 6th centuries? What if William 
the Conqueror had died during the Norman invasion of 
1066? In Britannia, the players will determine the 
destiny of a kingdom. 
Game Overview
Britannia is a board game for three to five play-
ers that broadly depicts the wars in, and migrations to, 
Britain in the centuries from the Roman invasions to the 
Norman Conquest. 
Each player controls several nations. Seventeen nations 
are included in the game, each representing a people that 
lived in or invaded Britain between 43 A.D. and 1085 
A.D. Not all 17 nations are in play at the same time. 
Instead, only six nations are in play at the beginning 
of the game; others enter, and in some cases leave, the 
game at specific times, reflecting known historic events. 
For example, the Romans begin the game prepared to 
invade from Gaul across the English Channel, simulating 
the Roman invasion of 43 A.D., and later leave the game 
after the fifth round of play, reflecting the Roman with-
drawal from Britain in the 4th century. Similarly, many 
nations have leaders – such as Arthur or Cnut – who 
enter the game at historically appropriate times. At dif-
ferent points in the game, players will control different 
nations, which will each have different leaders and dif-
ferent objectives. 
The players’ goal is to win the game by claiming the 
most victory points. Players gain victory points mainly 
by using their nations to occupy specified areas on the 
map at specified times, as instructed by each player’s 
Nation Cards. Nations may have to engage in battle 
against other nations to secure territory and gain victory. 
Some nations can also gain victory points in other ways: 
For example, the Romans and the Angles gain points if 
other nations submit to their rule, while other nations can 
gain points if their ruler becomes Bretwalda (overlord) 
or King.
Game Objective
Britannia is played over 16 game rounds, with each 
round representing about 75 years of history. At the 
end of Round 16 the game ends, and the player whose 
nations have accumulated the most victory points wins 
the game.
Number of Players
Britannia plays best with four players, since this 
number provides the best combination of player interest, 
interaction, and overall game balance. However, the game 
can easily be played with three or five players. Rules for 
the three- and five-player versions of Britannia can 
be found on page 19. Rules for two-player “learning” sce-
narios can also be found on pages 19-20. 
The standard four-player game takes three to five hours, 
the five-player game takes slightly longer, and the 
shorter variant of the three-player game takes about two 
hours.
Game Components 
In this copy of Britannia you will find the following 
components:
 
• This Rulebook
 
• The Game Board
 
• 251 Unit Markers in four colors: red, blue, yellow, 
	
and green, representing Infantry, Cavalry, Leaders, 
	
Roman Forts, and Saxon Burhs. See page 20 for a 
	
detailed list of these markers. 
 
• 17 Nation Cards
 
• 175 Victory Point Tokens in denominations of 1, 
	
5, and 25
 
• 16 Population Markers
 
• 1 Round Marker
 
• 5 Dice
The Game Board
The board represents the island of Britain, divided into 
37 land areas. Six sea areas surround the island. Some 
land areas, shaded more deeply, represent difficult terrain 
– rough, hilly, or swampy areas that impede movement. 
Britain itself is divided into three regions by heavy red 
lines, as follows: 
Wales: Clwyd, Cornwall, Devon, Dyfed, Gwent, 
Gwynedd, Powys (7 areas). 
Scotland: Alban, Caithness, Dalriada, Dunedin, Hebrides, 
Mar, Moray, Orkneys, Skye, Strathclyde (10 areas).
England: the remaining 20 areas. 
Other key parts of the game board are explained in “The 
Game Board” diagram. 
Islands and 
Coastal Areas
The Scottish areas of Hebrides and 
Orkneys each consist of a clus-
ter of islands. The area of Skye 
includes both the island and the 
portion of the mainland that formed 
the ancient kingdom of Skye; it 
borders both the Icelandic and the 
Irish Seas. Dalriada borders only 
the Irish Sea. Hwicce is a coastal 
area, bordering the Atlantic Ocean. 
Parts of Ireland and Normandy are 
shown in the left and lower-right 
areas of the map, although they are 
not involved in the game.
Page 2

Page 3
The unit markers
Each nation’s units – infantry and cavalry, as well as 
leaders, Roman forts, and Saxon burhs – are represented 
by cardboard markers. 
Note: In this rulebook, the term units refers to all of a 
nation’s markers: infantry, cavalry, leaders, Roman forts, 
and Saxon burhs. The term armies refers to both infantry 
units and cavalry units, but not forts, burhs, or leaders. 
Each nation’s playing pieces in BRITANNIA are dif-
ferentiated not only by unique art, but also by a unique 
combination of a color (red, green, yellow, or blue) and a 
symbol (spear, shield, axe, ship, or eagle). For example, 
the Belgae have blue playing pieces with a shield sym-
bol, while the Scots have yellow playing pieces with 
a spear symbol. The color-symbol combination on the 
playing pieces match that on each nation’s Nation Card 
and on the game board’s Nation List, to make it easier to 
identify each nation’s pieces during play.
Note that while the nations are color-coded for the four-
player game (each player takes all the nations of one 
color), the symbols are used for identification purposes 
only and have no other effect on game play. So, for 
example, although the Belgae have blue pieces with a 
shield symbol and the Welsh have green pieces with a 
shield symbol, there is no special relationship between 
the Belgae and Welsh nations.
Infantry
Infantry armies are the most 
common unit in the game. 
Roman infantry units rep-
resent more highly trained 
troops, and in game terms 
they move and fight like cavalry units. All other nations’ 
infantry units are “normal” infantry units.
Cavalry
Cavalry can move farther than normal 
infantry units and are better in com-
bat. Only the Romano-British and the 
Normans have cavalry units.
Note: Each nation is limited by the markers included 
with the game in regard to how many armies they may 
have in play at once. For a complete list of how many 
infantry and cavalry markers are included with each 
nation, see page 20. 
Leaders
Leaders represent individuals of 
extraordinary ability. They enter the 
game during certain game rounds as 
indicated on both the Timeline and 
the markers themselves. Leaders 
have no combat value in themselves (and must always be 
accompanied by army units), but they give a movement 
and combat bonus to the armies accompanying them. 
The Danish leader marker “Ivar and Halfdan” represents 
two individuals (the “Danish brothers”) but acts as a 
single leader for game purposes. Leaders are discussed 
in detail on page 13. 
Roman Forts
Whenever the Romans are the only nation 
occupying an area, they immediately build a 
fort in the area. These forts act as “normal” 
(not Roman) infantry units in battle 
(see page 11), but they cannot move. 
Areas with Roman forts are considered to also have 
“Roman roads,” which Roman armies can use for extra 
mobility.
Roman forts represent not only military fortifica-
tions, but also the Romans’ “civilizing” influence in an 
area. Roman fort markers have both an “intact” and a 
“destroyed” side. If a Roman fort is eliminated in battle, 
it is flipped to its destroyed side, as a reminder that the 
area has rejected Roman influence and that a new fort 
may not be built in the area. See “The Romans and the 
Romano-British,” on pages 14-17, for further discussion 
of the significance of Roman forts. 
Note: The Romans are not limited by the components in 
the number of forts they may have. 
Saxon Burhs
The Saxons have a special unit called a burh, 
which represents a type of fortification. Sax­
on burhs fight as normal infantry units in 
battle, and cannot move. However, Saxon burhs do not 
provide the additional benefits that Roman forts do. For 
a full discussion of Saxon burhs, see page 17. 
Other components
Nation Cards
There are 17 Nation 
Cards, one for each 
nation. Each card has 
the same background 
color as the cardboard 
markers of its nation. Each nation’s card states what it 
must do to earn victory points, when its units appear 
in the game, and additional important information. See 
“Overview of the Nation Card” on page 5 for a complete 
overview of the Nation Card and how to use it. 
Victory Point Markers
175 victory point markers are pro-
vided with the game, in denomi-
nations of 1, 5, and 25. Nations 
receive victory points throughout the game for complet-
ing the objectives listed on their Nation Card. The player 
with the most victory points among the nations he con-
trols at the end of the game is the winner. 
The Game Board
1. The Timeline: On the Timeline, players will find 
a summary of the events that take place during each 
round (such as invaders being placed or nations 
scoring). The Timeline is described in more detail 
on page 7.
2. Nation List: This list shows all 17 nations in the 
order in which they take their nation turns.
3. Population Track: This track is used during the 
Population Increase Phase to keep track of each 
nation’s population points.
4. Terrain Types & Straits 
Normal Terrain
Difficult Terrain
Strait

Page 4
Population Markers
Each nation except the Romans has 
a Population Increase Marker. This 
marker is used to track the nation’s 
progress on the Population Track. 
Designer’s Note: Markers have been included for the 
Norwegians and Normans, even though they are not used in 
standard game because the game ends after Round 16. There 
are two reasons: Lack of these markers caused misinterpreta-
tion of the rules in the past, and if people devise variants that 
go beyond Turn 16, the markers will then be needed.
Round Marker
The Round Marker is placed 
on the Timeline to keep track of the current game round.
Game Setup
The following setup instructions are for the four-player 
game. See page 19 for instructions on playing the game 
with three or five players.
1. Place the round marker in the Round 1 space on the 
Timeline on the board. 
2. Randomly determine which player will control the 
red, green, blue, or yellow nations. Each player should 
take the pieces for the nations he or she controls:
Player 1 controls the Dubliners, the Norwegians, the 
Romans, the Romano-British, and the Scots (the yellow 
pieces).
Player 2 controls the Caledonians, the Danes, the Jutes, 
and the Welsh (the green pieces). 
Player 3 controls the Brigantes, the Irish, the Norsemen, 
and the Saxons (the red pieces).
Player 4 controls the Belgae, the Picts, the Angles, and 
the Normans (the blue pieces). 
3. Each player should take the Nation Card that corre-
sponds to each nation he or she controls.
Now the starting units are placed on the map. Sixteen 
Roman infantry are placed in the English Channel, and 
one infantry is placed in each of the starting areas as 
listed in the “Game Setup” diagram.
When all pieces have been placed, the first game round 
begins.
Victory Points and 
the Nation Card
There are four main ways for nations to score victory 
points. These are described in detail below, and sum-
marized for each nation on its Nation Card. An astute 
player will refer to his Nation Cards and his opponents’ 
Nation Cards frequently. If another player asks to see 
any Nation Card, the owner must comply. 
When a nation receives victory points, the player con-
trolling that nation should immediately take the appro-
priate number of victory point tokens and place them 
on or near that nation’s Nation Card. It is important 
that each nation’s victory points be kept separate, so that 
all players know how well each nation, rather than just 
each player, is doing in the game. If any player asks how 
many victory points a nation currently has, the player 
controlling that nation must comply. 
Holding Areas
The first and most common way for a nation to score 
points is by holding areas at the end of a scoring round. 
This is indicated on the Nation Card by the Hold symbol 
(a fist) followed by the appropriate round and points 
granted for each area. Holding an area is defined as 
being the sole nation with units in an area at the end of 
an entire scoring round (not just the end of the nation 
turn; see “A Game Round,” on pages 6-7). The scoring 
rounds are Rounds 5, 7, 10, 13, and 16, and are high-
lighted on the Timeline.
Each nation has different areas that it must hold dur-
ing specific rounds in order to score victory points. For 
example, at the end of Round 5, the Caledonians score 
four points each for holding Orkneys, Caithness, and 
Hebrides, and two points each for holding Moray, Skye, 
and Dalriada. Of course, many nations are after the same 
areas, and this is a major source of conflict in the game.
Game Setup
When setting up the game, the 
nations listed below place infantry 
units in the following areas: 
 
The Caledonians (3 starting 
armies): Caithness, Hebrides, 
Orkneys.
The Picts (6 starting armies): 
Alban, Dalriada, Dunedin, Mar, 
Moray, Skye. 
The Brigantes (9 starting armies): 
Bernicia, Cheshire, Cumbria, 
Galloway, Lothian, March, Pennines, 
Strathclyde, York.
The Belgae (10 starting armies): 
Downlands, Essex, Kent, Lindsey, N. 
Mercia, S. Mercia, Norfolk, Suffolk, 
Sussex, Wessex.
The Welsh (9 starting armies): 
Avalon, Clwyd, Cornwall, Devon, 
Dyfed, Gwent, Gwynedd, Hwicce, 
Powys.
The Romans place 16 invading 
armies in the English Channel.

Page 5
At the end of each scoring round, the players should 
consult the Nation List on the game board. One by one, 
they should go through the nations in order, checking 
each nation’s Nation Card to see how many victory 
points each nation should receive for holding areas. 
A nation may score points for holding an area even if 
it has already scored for holding the area in a previous 
round, and even if it has scored for occupying the area 
(see below) in the current round or a previous round.
Occupying Areas 
A nation may score points for occupying certain areas 
during certain game rounds (even non-scoring rounds). 
This is indicated on the Nation Cards by the occupy 
symbol (a flag) followed by the appropriate round and 
points granted for each region. For example, the Welsh 
score 12 points for occupying York during Round 8 or 
Round 9. Occupying an area is defined as being the 
sole nation with units in an area at any time during the 
game round. A nation may even score occupy points for 
retreating into an area or just moving through the area 
during the appropriate game round (assuming no other 
nation’s units are present). As soon as a nation is the sole 
occupant of the listed area, the controlling player should 
take the appropriate number of victory point tokens. 
Example: In Round 15, the Norwegians begin their 
nation turn with 10 armies in the North Sea. They move 
3 armies into Bernicia, which is empty. The player 
controlling the Norwegians immediately takes 4 vic-
tory points for occupying Bernicia, since the Norwegian 
Nation Card shows that that is how many points the 
Norwegians receive for occupying Bernicia in Round 15.
1. Nation Name.
2. Generic Scoring Scroll. A Scoring Scroll with no 
symbol is used for special scoring situations. For 
example, the Romans get 6 points if the Belgae sub-
mit to them.
3. “Hold” Scoring Scroll. This scroll is marked 
with the Hold symbol (a closed fist). It shows that 
if the nation holds the listed areas at the end of the 
specified round(s), it will score the listed number of 
points. 
4. “Eliminate” Scoring Scroll. This scroll is marked 
with the Eliminate symbol (a skull). It shows that the 
nation will score the listed number of points for each 
of the named unit(s) that it eliminates during the 
specified round(s).
5. “Occupy” Scoring Scroll. This scroll is marked 
with the Occupy symbol (a flag). It shows that if the 
nation occupies the listed areas at any time during 
the specified round(s), it will score the listed number 
of points.
6. Nation Reference. This area lists important infor-
mation about the nation and special rules that apply 
on specific rounds. 
7. Nation Symbol: Each nation has a color (red, 
green, yellow, or blue) and symbol (spear, shield, 
axe, ship, or eagle). Together, these color-symbol 
combinations serve as a unique identifiers used to 
differentiate the various nations. For example, the 
Romans’ symbol is the yellow eagle, while the Picts 
have a blue spear. Each nation’s color and symbol 
are also used on its playing pieces. 
Overview of the Nation Card

Page 6
He then moves the armies in Bernicia to York, which 
is occupied by three Danish armies. He does not take 
any victory points for occupying York yet, since the 
Norwegians are currently not the sole nation with 
units in the area. In the Battles/Retreats Phase, if the 
Norwegian armies in York eliminate all the Danish armies 
in York, and at least one Norwegian army in York survives 
the battle, then the player controlling the Norwegians would 
immediately take 10 victory points, since the Norwegians 
would then be the sole nation with units in York. 
A single nation may only score points for occupying a 
specific area once. (So if the Welsh score for occupying 
York in Round 8, they may not do so again on Round 9.) 
However, a nation may score for occupying an area even 
if the nation has already scored for holding the area (see 
above), and vice versa. The rule to remember is that a 
nation may score for holding an area multiple times, 
but may only score for occupying each area once. 
Keeping track of which areas a nation has scored for 
occupying is discussed in more detail on page 17. 
Exception: The Danes may score for occupying the same 
areas in Rounds 11 and 12 (see page 18 for details). 
Eliminating Units 
A nation may receive points for eliminating enemy units 
in battle (even during non-scoring rounds). This is 
indicated on the Nation Cards by the eliminate symbol 
(a skull) followed by the appropriate round and points 
granted for each unit type. For example, the Picts receive 
two points for each Roman army they eliminate, and six 
points for each Roman fort they eliminate, in any game 
round. The Romans, on the other hand, receive six points 
for eliminating the Belgae leader Boudicca in Rounds 1 or 2. 
Nations that score points in this manner may do so at 
any time during the listed rounds. As soon as a nation 
eliminates a relevant unit (as listed on its Nation Card), 
the controlling player receives the appropriate number of 
points. It is possible for a nation to score victory points 
for eliminating units and then go on to lose the battle. 
Exception: Certain nations may only score points for 
eliminating units on their nation turn (listed as such 
on their Nation Cards). This signifies that they cannot 
receive these points during an opponent’s nation turn, 
and must therefore be the attacker to gain these points 
(see “Phase III: Battle/Retreats,” page 11). This applies 
only to the specific unit listed. For example, the Saxons 
may only score for eliminating Romano-British cavalry 
on the Saxon nation turn, but they may score for elimi-
nating Roman armies and forts at any time. 
The Bretwalda and the King
The fourth way that a nation may score victory points 
is by claiming Bretwalda or King. There may be a 
Bretwalda in Rounds 8, 9, and 10, and a King in Rounds 
11, 12, 13, 14, and 16, as indicated on the Timeline 
by a crown symbol. The Bretwalda and the King are 
described in more detail on page 18. 
Roman Victory Points
The Romans may score victory points in three additional 
ways. First, at the end of Round 5, they score points 
for limes (submitted nations and intact Roman forts). 
Second, the Belgae may submit to the Romans in Round 
1, and if they do, the Romans receive six victory points. 
Third, the Welsh, the Brigantes, and the Picts may also 
submit to the Romans. The Romans receive points for 
the areas occupied or held by any submitted nations 
(including the Belgae) as if the Romans occupied or held 
the areas themselves. These three types of Roman scor-
ing are described in more detail on pages 14-16. 
A Game Round 
Britannia is played over 16 game rounds. A game 
round consists of all the 17 nations taking their 
nation turns. Each nation turn consists of five phases, 
described below. 
At the beginning of each game round, players should 
consult the Timeline to see what events will occur in that 
round. 
The Nation Turn
In Britannia, the order of play depends on nations, 
not players. During each game round, each nation takes 
its nation turn in the order stated in the Nation List print-
ed on the board. Thus, the Romans play first, completing 
all of the phases of their nation turn, then the Romano-
British take their turn, then the Belgae, then the Welsh, 
and so on.
In many rounds some nations will have no units on the 
board. For example, the Romano-British and all nations 
listed after the Picts are not yet on the board in Round 1. 
If a nation has not yet entered the game – or has already 
left the game – simply skip its nation turn.
Each nation’s turn consists of the following five phases, 
which are explained in greater detail throughout this 
rulebook.
Three nations – the Welsh, the Saxons, 
and the Angles – have special restrictions, 
called point limits, on the areas they may 
score points for holding. 
Welsh Point Limit
In a scoring round, the total points that 
the Welsh score for holding areas outside 
Wales may not be more than half the total 
points that the Welsh score for holding 
areas in Wales. Any excess points from 
holding areas outside Wales are lost. 
Example: In Round 7, the Welsh hold 
eight areas outside Wales: Cheshire, 
March, Hwicce, North Mercia, South 
Mercia, Lindsey, Suffolk, and Essex, which 
are worth one point each to the Welsh. 
However, the Welsh only hold Powys 
and Gwynedd in Wales, which are each 
worth four points to the Welsh. Since the 
Welsh only scored eight points for areas in 
Wales, they may only score four points for 
areas outside Wales. The extra four points 
for the areas outside Wales are lost. 
This Welsh point limit is summarized on 
its Nation Card as follows: “Point limit 
outside Wales (half Wales points).”
Saxon Point Limit
In a scoring round, the total points that the 
Saxons score for holding areas in Wales 
may not be more than half the total points 
that the Saxons score for holding areas in 
England. Any excess points from holding 
areas in Wales are lost. 
The Saxon point limit is summarized on 
its Nation Card as follows: “Point limit in 
Wales (half England points).”
Angle Point Limit
In a scoring round, the total points that the 
Angles score for holding areas in Scotland 
may not be more than half the total points 
that the Angles score for holding areas in 
England. Any excess points from holding 
areas in Scotland are lost. 
The Angle point limit is summarized on 
its Nation Card as follows: “Point limit in 
Scotland (half England points).”
Victory Point Limits

Page 7
Phase 1: Population Increase
In this phase, new armies may be placed on the board, 
depending on the number of areas that the nation con-
trols. See pages 7-8 for more information on this phase. 
Phase 2: Movement
In this phase, the controlling player moves the current 
nation’s armies, possibly initiating battles. See pages 
8-10 for the rules governing movement. 
Phase 3: Battles/Retreats
In this phase, battles and retreats are resolved. See pages 
11-13 for the rules governing battles and retreats. 
Phase 4: Raider Withdrawal 
In this phase, Raiding armies may choose to withdraw 
back to the sea. See pages 9-10 for more details on Raiding 
and page 13 for information on Raider Withdrawal. 
Phase 5: Overpopulation
In this phase, if the number of armies a nation has in 
land areas is more than twice the number of land areas it 
occupies, it must remove the excess armies. This proce-
dure is explained on page 13.
End of the Game Round
After the Overpopulation Phase, the nation turn is over 
and the next nation will then take its nation turn. After 
every nation has taken its nation turn, players perform 
the following two steps, in order: 
Step 1: Scoring for Holding Areas
Players check the Timeline to see whether the round was a 
scoring round (Rounds 5, 7, 10, 13, and 16, marked on the 
Timeline). At the end of scoring rounds, each nation gains 
victory points for holding the areas indicated on its Nation 
Card (as described under “Holding Areas,” pages 4-5). 
These points scored at the end of a game round are in 
addition to any points scored during a nation’s nation turn. 
Step 2: Scoring for Bretwalda or the King
At the end of some rounds – indicated on the Timeline 
by a crown – players determine whether any nation has 
claimed Bretwalda or a King. A Bretwalda may be elect-
ed in Rounds 8, 9, and 10, and a King may be crowned 
in Rounds 11, 12, 13, 14, and 16. The procedure for 
determining whether there is a Bretwalda or a King, and 
how many points the nation receives, is discussed in 
detail on page 18. 
After these two steps are complete, the game round is 
over. The round marker is moved to the next round on 
the Timeline and the next game round begins.
Phase I: Population 
Increase 
A major way that nations gain more armies is by increas-
ing their population, which is done by occupying areas.
Exception: The Romans receive reinforcements instead 
of increasing their population. See “Roman Reinforce­
ments” on page 14.
During a nation’s Population Increase Phase, the con-
trolling player counts the number of areas currently 
occupied by that nation’s armies. Normal areas provide 
two population points, while difficult terrain areas pro-
vide only one. To this total, add any population points 
left over from the previous game round, as indicated on 
the Population Track. For each count of six, the nation 
receives one new infantry unit from among its eliminated 
and unused units. Any points left over are saved until 
the next turn. To track this, place the nation’s popula-
tion increase marker on the appropriate space on the 
Population Track. 
Example: During the Welsh nation’s Population Increase 
Phase, the Welsh population marker shows 3 population 
points left from last turn, and Welsh armies occupy land 
areas worth 11 population points, for a total of 14. The 
Welsh receive two new armies (if available) and their 
population marker is moved to the “2” space of the 
Population Track.
A player may not refuse to increase his population. This 
may result in more armies on the board than his nation 
can support (see “Phase V: Overpopulation,” page 13); in 
that case he’ll have to move and perhaps attack in order 
to avoid losing armies in the Overpopulation Phase (or 
he might let the extra armies starve). 
Each nation is limited to the number of armies it may 
have in play by the number of components included with 
the game. (See page 20 for a complete list of how many 
units of each type each nation has.) If no infantry units 
are available, the nation cannot receive any new armies. 
It may save up to five population points, but any extra 
points are lost.
Note: The Romano-British and the Normans both have 
cavalry units. These units only enter the game in Rounds 
7, 15, and 16, as specified by the Timeline. They may 
not be brought into play via the spending of population 
points.
Overview of the Timeline
1. The round number shows which round is 
taking place.
2. Under the round number, the Timeline lists 
each nation that receives new units or has other 
notable events this round. If the nation receives 
new units, the Timeline lists the number of 
armies and/or the names of the leaders, with 
their starting area (if applicable) in parentheses. 
3. Nations may have special abilities during a 
given game round. The Timeline lists the appro-
priate symbols to indicate whether each nation 
has a Raiding turn, a Major Invasion, or can use 
Boat movement.
4. Rounds with the Scoring Round box signify 
that nations may be able to score “hold” points 
at the end of the round. Consult each nation’s 
Nation Card to determine which areas they may 
receive points for holding.
5. A Bretwalda or King symbol next to the game 
round signifies that after all nations have taken 
their nation turn, players will vote for Bretwalda 
or check for Kingship.

Page 8
Placing New Armies
New infantry armies gained in the Population Increase 
Phase are placed on areas occupied by the nation’s 
armies. No more than one army may be placed in a 
given area, unless there is no alternative (for example, 
because some areas are occupied by the maximum num-
ber of armies allowed by the stacking limits, see page 
9). If there is nowhere to place an army received in the 
Population Increase Phase, owing to stacking limits, the 
army is lost, but the nation’s population marker remains 
at “5” on the Population Track. 
 
Note: The Norwegians, Normans, and Saxons each 
receive special reinforcements at the beginning of Round 
16. These are described in detail on page 18.
Placing invaders and raiders
Finally place any invaders or raiders, including leaders (see 
“Leaders”, page 13), as listed for the nation in the timeline. 
If there are not enough armies available because all armies 
are already on board, the player may select which invader 
or raider units do not appear. In that case, move population 
marker to “5” on Population Track.
Phase II: Movement 
During a nation’s Movement Phase, the controlling 
player may move any, all, or none of the nation’s armies. 
Armies may not normally move into a sea area, except 
during Boat movement (page 9) or during a Raiding turn 
(page 10). 
Normal armies (all those except cavalry and Roman 
infantry) may move up to two land areas per turn. For 
example, one may start in Essex, move to Suffolk, and 
then to Norfolk. However, an infantry army must end its 
move when it enters a difficult terrain area (those with 
darker shading). 
Cavalry units and Roman infantry may move three land 
areas per turn, but must end their move if they move into 
a difficult terrain area. (Only the Romano-British and the 
Normans have cavalry units.)
There are two major exceptions to these basic movement 
rules. First, armies with leaders may move three areas 
per turn, and need not stop in difficult terrain. Leaders 
are discussed in more detail on pages 13-14. Second, 
Normal Movement
The three Welsh armies in Avalon have several possible destinations to 
choose from during their Movement Phase:
1. One or more Welsh armies may choose to move into the Downlands. 
2. The Welsh armies cannot move into the Downlands and then continue on 
to Sussex, because the Downlands is a difficult terrain area.
3. One or more Welsh armies may choose to move into Wessex. If one or 
two armies move into Wessex, they must stop there because of the opposing 
army in that territory.
4. If all three Welsh armies move into Wessex, the Welsh will outnumber 
their opponent by more than two to one. Two Welsh armies must still stop, 
but the third may overrun through Wessex, continuing on to Sussex. 
Strait and Boat Movement
In Round 9, the Saxons have Boat movement. The Saxon army in Devon 
has several movement possibilities:
5. The Saxon army may use the strait to move into Gwent. Note that 
this takes their entire movement. To use a strait, an army must start its 
Movement Phase at one end of the strait, and stop its movement at the other 
end of the strait. 
6. The Saxon army could move from Devon to Dyfed, but may not then 
continue on to Powys, because using the strait would take up its entire 
movement.
7. The Saxon army may use its Boat capability to first move into a sea area 
and then move into a bordering coastal area. In this example, the arrow 
shows how the Saxon army may move from Devon into the Atlantic Ocean, 
and then land in Hwicce. Though not pictured here, the Saxon army could 
also use Boat movement to move into the Atlantic and then to Powys, 
Gwynedd, Clwyd, or Cheshire, or it could move into the English Channel 
and then into a bordering coastal area.

Page 9
Roman armies may also use Roman roads to move sev-
eral spaces in a single turn. Roman roads are described 
in detail on pages 14-15. 
All units must stop when moving into an area containing 
an opposing nation’s units unless they are able to “over-
run” through the area (see below). 
Straits
There are four strait symbols marked on the board, repre-
sented by yellow arrows. These straits link the Hebrides 
and Skye, the Orkneys and Caithness, Dyfed and Devon, 
and Gwent and Devon. Armies may move across a strait 
as though the destination area were adjacent, traveling 
from one of the connected areas to the other despite the 
intervening water. However, this move takes all of an 
army’s movement. So the army must begin the move-
ment in one of the two areas and end the movement in 
the other. (Exception: Roman roads, see pages 14-15.) 
Stacking Limits
The number of armies of one nation allowed in a single 
land area is strictly limited in most cases. Each nation 
(except the Romans) may normally have no more than 
three armies in a non-difficult terrain area, or two in 
a difficult terrain area. As an exception to this restric-
tion, each nation may have a single overstack. This 
overstack consists of one group of an unlimited number 
in a non-difficult terrain area or one group of up to four 
armies in a difficult terrain area (but not both). 
Exception: The Romans can have any number of armies 
in each non-difficult terrain area and up to four in each 
difficult terrain area. Forts do not count toward stacking 
limits. Since the Romans do not have to adhere to nor-
mal stacking limits, they do not have a single overstack 
capability.
These stacking limits are effective at the end of every 
nation’s Movement Phase, but not during movement. 
The stacking limits apply separately to each nation with 
armies in an area after a Movement Phase.
Stacking limits may not be exceeded during the 
Population Increase Phase, nor may they be exceeded as a 
result of retreats. 
Exceptions: Stacking limits may be exceeded when 
placing Round 1 Belgae reinforcements, Round 6 
Romano-British armies, and Round 7 Romano-British 
reinforcements (see page 15).
Overruns
When a player moves one or more armies into an area 
occupied by another nation, a battle is initiated. Usually, 
all the armies moving into the area must stop and fight in 
the battle. However, in some cases some of the moving 
armies may be able to continue moving: This is called an 
overrun. 
If the number of armies moving into an area is less than 
or equal to twice the number of opposing forces (count 
armies and forts/burhs, but not leaders), then all the 
attacking armies must stop and fight the battle. However, 
if the moving armies outnumber the opposing forces 
by more than two to one, the excess armies may move 
through the area (overrun) without stopping (provided 
they would be able to legally move that far if the areas in 
question were empty – difficult terrain still stops move-
ment, etc.). 
Note that since some armies can move three areas, they 
can sometimes overrun through two areas.
Regardless of whether any overruns occur or not, all 
movement must be completed before any battles are 
resolved. 
Boat Movement 
During some rounds, certain nations will have the ability 
to move units via Boat movement. The turns in which a 
nation has Boat movement are listed on its Nation Card. 
On the Timeline, if a nation has Boat movement in a 
given round it is indicated by the Boat symbol, pictured 
above. 
With Boat movement, units may move through (but may 
not end their turn in) one sea area. This movement is a 
part of, rather than in addition to, their normal move-
ment. Note that the sea area may be different for each 
unit, but no one unit may move through more than one 
sea area.
Example: During a Boat movement turn, an army in 
Kent might move to York or Cornwall (or to a coastal 
area between those two); one in Mar may move to York 
or Skye (or to a coastal area between those two). 
Designer’s Note: At times the “Dubliners” probably portaged 
their boats across Scotland and then sailed down the eastern 
coast to York. This is certainly legal in the game, when other 
movement rules are satisfied.
When there is a Major Invasion, Boat movement may 
be used during either or both halves of the Major 
Invasion as long as other rules are followed (see “Major 
Invasions,” page 10).
Invasions and Raiding
Throughout the game, new armies are brought into play 
in the sea areas indicated on the Timeline. These armies 
represent, in broad terms, the peoples who landed on the 
shores of Britain at a particular time in history. Invasions 
are indicated on the Timeline under the names of the 
relevant nations. The number of armies each nation 
receives that round is listed, along with the sea area in 
which those armies are placed in parentheses. Players 
should place invading armies in the appropriate sea 
areas, as instructed by the Timeline, at the beginning of 
the game round. 
The Roman occupation of Britain 
from 43 A.D. through the 4th 
century shaped Britain’s history in 
countless ways. As a conquering 
empire, the Romans were very 
different – particularly in terms 
of military might – from the other 
peoples that occupied Britain in 
this time period. These differences 
are reflected in Britannia in a 
variety of ways. First, the Romans 
begin the game with more armies 
than any other nation, as described 
in “Game Setup.” Second, Roman 
armies can move farther than 
normal armies (three areas rather 
than two, see page 8). Third, 
Roman armies are more effective 
in combat than normal armies, as 
described on page 11. 
There are other differences 
between the Romans and other 
nations. The Romans can build 
forts, which act as normal armies 
that cannot move. Intact forts also 
score victory points for the Romans 
at the end of Round 5. Roman 
armies can also use “Roman roads” 
to move across many areas in a 
single turn. The Romans do not 
have a normal Population Increase 
Phase – instead they receive a 
variable number of reinforcements 
from Rome – and the Romans skip 
the Overpopulation Phase. Some 
nations (the Belgae, the Welsh, 
the Brigantes, and the Picts) may 
submit to the Romans, for which 
the Romans receive victory points. 
Finally, the Romans leave the game 
after Round 5 and are replaced by 
the Romano-British, representing 
the Romans’ withdrawal from 
Britain in the 4th century.
The Roman nation and the special 
rules governing it are explained in 
detail on pages 14-17. The player 
controlling the Romans should 
review these rules prior to the start 
of the game.

Page 10
Example: On the Round 8 space of the Timeline, under-
neath the word “Irish” the Timeline reads “1 Invader 
(Atlantic Ocean),” under “Scots” it reads “1 Invader 
(Irish Sea),” and under the “Angles” it reads “2 
Invaders (North Sea).” This indicates that players must 
place one Irish army in the Atlantic Ocean area, one 
Scots army in the Irish Sea area, and two Angle armies 
in the North Sea area at the start of the game round.
Armies in a sea area must do one of the following:
1. Move directly from sea to a bordering land area. Then, 
following normal movement rules, they may choose to 
move one additional land area.
2. Move to an adjacent sea area and then land in an adja-
cent land area. Some nations have additional restrictions 
regarding this option (see below). 
3. During a Raiding turn or during the first half of a Major 
Invasion, armies may remain in the sea area they started 
in. (See “Major Invasions” and “Raiding Turns,” below).
Things to Note About Invaders
Invading cavalry, armies with a leader, and Roman infan-
try may move three areas (following normal movement 
rules).
Normally, all armies must end their Movement Phase in 
a land area. (Important Exceptions: Major Invasions 
and Raiding turns, see below.) 
Armies beginning their Movement Phase in a sea area 
may never move two sea areas before landing in a land 
area. 
When units at sea land, they are not required to all land 
in the same area.
Any number of armies from any number of nations may 
be in the same sea area. Stacking limits are ignored, and 
no battles occur at sea. 
Invasion Restrictions on the Nation 
Card
Several nations have additional restrictions regarding 
where their invaders may land. Such restrictions are 
listed in the Nation Reference area of the Nation Cards. 
For example, in the Nation Reference section of the 
Irish Nation Card it says “Invaders must land south of 
Galloway.” When the Nation Card says that invaders 
must land “north of” or “south of” a certain area, land-
ing in the listed area is not allowed. Therefore, Irish 
invaders may not land in Galloway. However, Irish 
invaders may land in Cumbria and move into Galloway 
via normal movement. 
In addition, invader restrictions apply only to units that 
begin their nation turn at sea, not to units that begin 
their turn on land and use Boat movement. Jute invaders 
may not move into the Atlantic, but Jute units that begin 
their nation turn on land in Round 6 may move into the 
Atlantic via Boat movement.
Major Invasions
On certain rounds some nations initiate Major Invasions. 
Major Invasions are indicated on the Timeline by a 
crossed axes symbol, pictured above. 
During a Major Invasion turn, all of a nation’s units, on 
land and at sea, may move and attack twice. In a round 
in which a nation has a Major Invasion, the controlling 
player takes two Movement and Battles/Retreats Phases 
in this order: First Movement Phase, First Battles/
Retreats Phase, Second Movement Phase, Second 
Battles/Retreats Phase. No other phases of the nation’s 
turn are duplicated. 
In addition, during a Major Invasion, an army may stay 
at sea (not move) during the first Movement Phase. 
However, all the nation’s armies must end their Second 
Movement Phase in land areas (unless they are on a 
Raiding turn; see below).
Designer’s Note: A Major Invasion reflects the additional 
shock and impetus of a great effort that sometimes takes place 
over a long period of time.
Raiding Turns 
During some rounds, certain nations are considered to be 
Raiding. This is listed on the Nation Cards as well as the 
Timeline with the Raiding symbol, pictured above.
Example: In Round 6 the Irish and the Scots are both 
listed as Raiding on the Timeline and on their Nation 
Cards, meaning that both of their nation turns are con-
sidered Raiding turns. 
If a nation is listed as having a Raiding turn in a certain 
round, then all the armies of that nation that are in a sea 
area at the beginning of the nation turn (not just those 
that were placed at the beginning of the current round) 
are considered to be Raiding armies for that turn. In 
historical terms Raiding armies represent invaders that 
returned to their homeland after invading Britain. In 
game terms, Raiding armies are permitted to end their 
nation turn in a sea area (again, in reality these armies 
returned to their homelands). Raiding armies may end 
their nation turn in a sea area in three ways. 
1. Remain at Sea 
Raiding armies may choose not to move out of the sea 
area they start in (whereas all non-Raiding armies are 
required to end their nation turn in a land area). 
2. Retreat Back to Sea 
Raiding armies may, after landing and engaging in battle, 
retreat from battle back to the sea area they started in. 
For detailed rules on how Raiding armies may retreat 
back to sea, see “Where the Attacker Retreats,” page 12. 
3. Withdraw Back to Sea 
Raiding armies may withdraw back to sea during the 
Raider Withdrawal Phase, as described under “Phase 
4: Raider Withdrawal,” on page 13. During the Raider 
Withdrawal Phase, the controlling player may simply 
pick up any Raiding armies and place them back in the 
sea area they started in. It does not matter if there are 
areas with opposing units between the Raiding army and 
the sea area. The Raider Withdrawal Phase occurs after 
the Battles/Retreats Phase. Thus, Raiding armies may 
land, fight battles, and then withdraw to the sea so that 
they may not be attacked later that game round.
Things to Note About Raiding
Armies that begin the nation turn on land are not consid-
ered to be Raiding armies, even though the nation may 
be on a Raiding turn. Therefore, units that start on land 
may not withdraw during the Raider Withdrawal Phase. 
(Exception: Pict Raiding, see sidebar.)
The Scots Major Invasion in Round 7 and the Norse 
Major Invasion in Round 11 are also Raiding turns. 
This entails the movement of the Raider Withdrawal 
Phase to just after the second Battles/Retreats Phase. 
So these nations’ turns have the following phases: First 
Movement Phase, First Battles/Retreats Phase, Second 
Movement Phase, Second Battles/Retreats Phase, Raider 
Withdrawal Phase. As with other Raiding turns, armies 
Pict Raiding
Unlike other nations, when the 
Picts have a Raiding turn (in 
Rounds 4 and 5), all their armies 
are considered to be Raiding 
armies. When the Picts are raiding, 
one or more Pictish armies in a 
land area may (using Boat move-
ment) move to an adjacent sea 
area, then to an adjacent land area, 
battle, and then retreat or withdraw 
(during the Raider Withdrawal 
Phase) to the land area they origi-
nated from, provided that area is 
still unoccupied by another nation. 
Multiple groups of Pictish armies 
may raid in this manner, if desired. 
Picts may not raid overland: They 
must go by sea.
Pict raiders follow the same Raider 
Withdrawal procedure (see page 
13) as other nations – they simply 
withdraw back to the land area 
they started the turn in.

Page 11
must have begun the nation turn at sea in order to be 
considered Raiding armies. 
As indicated on the Timeline and their Nation Card, in 
Round 11, the Danes’ Raiding armies must return to sea 
by the end of the Danes’ nation turn. They may return to 
sea via any of three ways listed above. 
The invader restrictions on some nation’s Nation Cards 
also apply to Raiding armies.
Phase III:
Battles/Retreats
When units belonging to two nations occupy the same 
land area at the end of a Movement Phase, a battle 
must take place (even if the same player controls both 
nations). Combat at sea is not possible. The nation that 
moved into the area is considered the attacker, and the 
nation that was already there is considered the defender. 
If multiple battles need to be fought, the attacker chooses 
the order in which they are resolved. 
Start of a Battle
The controlling player for each nation rolls one die for 
each army and fort/burh they have in the area. A player 
controlling different types of units in a battle rolls sepa-
rately for the different types of units. For example, a 
player controlling the Romans would have to roll dice for 
his armies separately from the dice he rolls for his forts, 
rather than rolling them all at once and assigning the dice 
afterwards. 
The dice rolls determine how many opposing armies 
are eliminated. Eliminated armies are removed from the 
board.
Armies are eliminated according to the following rules:
1. A normal army eliminates a normal enemy army on a 
roll of 5 or higher.
2. A Roman or cavalry army eliminates a normal enemy 
army on a roll of 4 or higher.
3. Roman and cavalry armies are eliminated on a roll of 
6 or higher, no matter what type of unit is attacking. 
4. Any defending army in a difficult terrain area is elimi-
nated on a roll of 6 or higher. This rule takes precedence 
over rules 1 and 2. 
Things to Note About Battles: 
In battle, Roman forts and Saxon burhs act as normal 
armies. 
Die rolls are considered to be simultaneous, regardless of 
which player rolls the dice first.
A player may find that nations he controls are compet-
ing for the same objectives. It is legal for two nations 
controlled by the same player to attack each other. The 
controlling player makes all decisions regarding retreats, 
but may have another player roll for one of the nations.
Eliminating Roman Forts
Any Roman armies in an area with a Roman fort must 
be eliminated by an attacker before the fort may be 
eliminated. Thus a die roll of 5 will not eliminate the fort 
unless any Roman armies present in that round are elimi-
nated by rolls of 6. 
Example: Four armies are attacking a Roman fort and 
one Roman infantry. Four dice are rolled at once. If the 
attacker rolls at least one 6, then the Roman infantry is 
eliminated, and another 5 or 6 eliminates the fort. But if 
the attacker rolls four 5s, then no Roman units are elimi-
nated, because there is no 6 to kill the infantry.
Examples of Battle
1. One Welsh army moves into Avalon to battle one Belgae army. The Belgae player 
rolls a 6 while the Welsh player rolls a 4. 
Result: The Welsh army is eliminated. 
2. Two Welsh armies move into the Downlands to battle one Belgae army. The Belgae 
player rolls a 5, and the Welsh player rolls a 2 and a 5. 
Result: The Belgae army survives, since it is defending in difficult terrain and 
therefore only eliminated on a roll of 6. The Welsh however, lose one army from the 
Belgae’s “5” result. The Belgae player then gets to decide if he wants to retreat. If 
he does not, the Welsh player may then decide to retreat back to Wessex or continue 
fighting.
3. One Belgae army moves into Sussex to attack the Roman army and fort. The Roman 
player rolls a 5 for the army and a 4 for the fort, while the Belgae player rolls a 5.
Result: The Belgae player loses one army from the Roman army’s 5 result, since 
a Roman army eliminates an opponent on a 4 or higher. (If the Belgae player had 
brought two armies, the second one would not be eliminated by the other “4” result, 
because the fort fights like a normal army.)
No Roman units are eliminated because of the Belgae player’s roll of 5. Roman forts 
are eliminated by a 5 or higher, but only if Roman armies have been eliminated first – 
and it takes a roll of 6 to eliminate a Roman army. 

Page 12
Note: The above rule does not apply to Saxon burhs: 
They are eliminated just like normal armies, and are 
removed before normal Saxon armies are removed (see 
“Saxon Burhs,” page 17).
Deciding Which Unit Is 
Eliminated
In battles where cavalry and infantry are on the same 
side, 5s kill normal armies, while 6s kill cavalry or nor-
mal armies as the opposing player desires. Players do 
not have to specify which die attacks which type of unit 
before rolling. 
However, aside from the cavalry/infantry situation 
above, the controlling player chooses which armies 
are to be eliminated. If all armies are of the same type, 
choosing which ones have been eliminated can be done 
when the battle is finished. (This is sometimes an issue 
during Raiding turns, where some armies may have 
begun the turn at sea and can therefore retreat to the sea, 
while others began on land and cannot go back to sea. 
It may also be an issue if units attacked from different 
areas, and are therefore limited to retreating to those 
areas.) 
Ending a Battle
Battle continues until all the armies and forts/burhs of 
one or both nations are eliminated, or until one player 
retreats all of their units.
After both players have rolled dice and eliminated units 
according to the results, if both sides have at least one 
surviving unit in the area, the defender may choose to 
retreat. If the defender still has at least one unit in the 
area, the attacker may then choose to retreat. Note that 
when retreating, a player may choose to retreat some or 
all of his units involved in the battle. 
If both sides have armies in the area after the opportunity 
to retreat, another round of battle is fought. 
This procedure is repeated until only one nation occupies 
the area (or they are both eliminated at the same time).
Where the Defender 
Retreats
When the defending nation retreats, its units may have a 
choice of areas to retreat to, and some may retreat to one 
area while others retreat to another. Legal areas include: 
1. Adjacent areas which are solely occupied by the 
retreating nation’s units.
2. Adjacent areas which are vacant and are not adjacent 
to a land area occupied solely by the attacking nation’s 
units (other than the battle area itself).
Adjacent areas also include areas connected to the battle 
area by a strait. However, a unit at one end of a strait 
does not prevent retreat to an area at the other end of the 
strait (for example, an army in Devon does not prevent 
an army from retreating from Dyfed to Gwent).
The defender may never retreat to:
1. A sea area. 
2. Any area containing enemy units. 
3. Any area from which the opposing armies entered the 
battle area. This case includes armies that went through 
the battle area as part of an overrun, but did not actually 
participate in the battle in question.
The defender must observe stacking limits when retreating. 
If no legal retreat area is available, the defender must 
remain in the battle area and continue the battle. 
Where the Attacker 
Retreats
When the attacking nation retreats, its units must retreat 
to the area(s) from which they entered the battle area. The 
attacker must observe stacking limits when retreating.
Examples of Retreats
The Saxons have attacked a Welsh army in North Mercia from 
Suffolk. There are also Saxons in Powys and South Mercia. 
There is a Welsh army in Hwicce. The Welsh army decides to 
retreat from North Mercia. It can retreat to Lindsey or York 
because they are vacant and not adjacent to areas with Saxon 
units (aside from North Mercia, where the battle is being 
fought). The Welsh army may not retreat to Suffolk, because 
that is where the attackers came from. It also may not retreat 
to March, because of the Saxon army in Powys. The Welsh 
army may retreat to Hwicce, even though it is adjacent to 
Powys, because of the Welsh army there.
One Angle army is in Sussex and one is in Kent. Three Saxon armies move from Wessex 
to Sussex. Two of the Saxon armies must stop in Sussex, but the one remaining Saxon 
army continues on via the overrun ability to Kent. In the Battles/Retreats Phase, the 
player controlling the Saxons chooses to fight the battle in Kent first. 
Attacking armies may only retreat to the area from which they entered the battle. In 
this case, the army in Kent will not be able to retreat because the region from which it 
entered the battle – Sussex – contains armies of another nation. 

Page 13
Example: Three Saxon armies attack Essex, two com-
ing from Kent and one from Sussex; one is eliminated 
following battle, and the player decides to retreat. Both 
surviving armies may go to Kent, or one to Kent and one 
to Sussex, depending on which army the owning player 
chooses to remove. 
If the area the attacker came from contains an army of 
another nation, the attacker cannot retreat to that area. 
It must remain in the battle area and fight again. This 
can occur when a group of attacking armies has moved 
through an area containing opposing units via an overrun. 
If an army attacks from a sea area, it must retreat to 
the (land or sea) area in which it started its Movement 
Phase. 
Example: Five Norsemen armies are placed in the 
Icelandic Sea during the start of round 11 (a Norsemen 
Raiding turn). During the Norsemen Movement Phase, 
the armies move to the North Sea, then land in York, 
which is occupied by opposing units. During the ensuing 
battle, if the Norsemen armies retreat, they must retreat 
back to the Icelandic Sea. 
Armies may only retreat back to sea on a Raiding turn 
or during the first half of a Major Invasion. At any other 
time, a retreat that would make the army end its nation 
turn at sea is not allowed. 
Things to Note About Retreating
Armies attacking an area via a Boat move may retreat 
via a Boat move to the area they started the Boat move 
in, provided that area is still unoccupied by another 
nation.
The Raider Withdrawal Phase (which takes place after 
all battles have been completed), is entirely different and 
separate from retreats (which occur during the Battles/
Retreats Phase). 
Phase IV: Raider 
Withdrawal
During this phase Raiding armies may withdraw back to 
the sea area they started the turn in – even if they have 
already used up all their normal movement and engaged 
in a battle, and even if there is not a clear path for them 
to return to the appropriate sea area. The controlling 
player simply picks up any Raiding armies that he wants 
to withdraw off the board and places them in the sea area 
they started in. Raiding armies are thus able to invade 
from the sea, fight battles, and withdraw back to the sea 
in the same turn. 
Phase V: 
Overpopulation
The last phase of each nation turn is the Overpopulation 
Phase. (Exception: The Romans are not subject to over-
population.) During this phase, the controlling player 
counts 1) the number of land areas it occupies and 2) the 
number of armies occupying these land areas. Armies at 
sea do not count towards overpopulation (these armies 
are considered to have temporarily returned to their 
homelands). If the number of armies occupying land 
areas is greater than two times the number of land areas 
occupied, the excess armies must be removed. 
For example, if a nation occupies four land areas, it can 
have no more than eight armies in those areas at the end 
of its Overpopulation Phase. The controlling player must 
remove excess armies until the state of overpopulation 
no longer exists. However, no area can be emptied dur-
ing removal, nor can a player remove more armies than 
are required to end overpopulation. 
Leaders 
At various points in the game, as indicated on the 
Timeline and the Nation Cards, some nations will 
receive leaders. A leader represents a single individual of 
extraordinary ability and authority. 
Some leaders start in a sea zone with invading armies, 
and these leaders may be placed in the sea areas listed on 
the Timeline at the start of the game round. 
Other leaders do not have a starting area listed on the 
Timeline. A leader whose location is not specified is 
placed on the board at the end of the relevant nation’s 
Population Increase Phase. Such a leader may be placed 
in any area occupied by the nation’s units. If the start-
ing location of a leader is not specified, and the leader’s 
nation has no armies in any land areas, then that leader 
may not enter play. (Exception: Arthur, see page 15.)
In some cases, special conditions (noted on the Timeline) 
must be met before a leader can be brought into play. 
Note: In two cases the Angles receive leaders only if 
they occupy a particular area (Bernicia, North Mercia). 
The Angles also receive the leader when a submitted 
Brigante nation occupies the area (see page 17). The cor-
responding leader is not required to appear in that par-
ticular area, in any case.
A leader is removed from the board at the beginning of 
its nation’s next turn before any Population Increase is 
calculated. Thus a leader is on the board from the start 
of its nation turn in one round until the start of its nation 
turn in the following round – unless it is eliminated in 
battle. 
Exceptions: Harold the Saxon, Harald Hardrada of the 
Norwegians, and William the Conqueror of the Normans 
all enter play in Round 15 and remain in play (unless 
killed) until the end of Round 16.
Leaders and Movement
A leader is not an army and does not count for purposes 
of overruns, Overpopulation, or stacking limits. 
A leader may never be in an area without armies of his 
nation accompanying him. A leader may move three 
areas, but may never enter an area that is not occu-
pied by armies of his nation unless one or more armies 
accompany him. If an area is emptied of friendly armies 
(by retreat or movement), the leader must move out with 
these armies.
Any armies accompanying leaders may move three 
areas and need not stop when entering a difficult ter-
rain area. This is an exception to the normal movement 
rule. Moving across a strait still stops the leader and 
those with him. The armies must accompany the leader 
for their entire move in order for them to gain these 
movement advantages.
Example: A leader starting in Bernicia with two armies 
may move to York and pick up two more armies and then 
continue with a total of four armies through (empty) 
Lindsey to Norfolk. The armies in York may not have 
moved prior to being picked up by the leader, nor may 
they continue moving after entering Norfolk.
An army using Boat movement and accompanied by 
a leader may still only move through one sea area, but 
may move an additional land area before or after land-
ing. For example, an army and leader in Lothian using 
Leader Movement
1. An army that starts its movement with 
a leader may move 3 spaces and does not 
have to stop its movement when entering 
difficult terrain.
2. The army in Bernicia may get the 
movement benefits provided from the 
leader as long as the army spends all of 
its movement with the leader.

Page 14
Boat movement could move to the North Sea, then to 
York, then to North Mercia. 
Leaders and Battle
When a leader is present during a battle, add one to the 
die roll of each army and burh of the leader’s nation in 
the battle. Leaders are not armies, so no die is rolled 
for them. A leader is immediately eliminated in battle if 
combat losses leave the leader without other units of his 
nation in the area, even if there are no opposing armies 
remaining. No dice roll is required. 
A leader can retreat alone before the last army of his 
nation is eliminated in battle, but only to an adjacent 
area that is occupied solely by units of his nation. 
and the 
Romano-British
The Romans are different from other nations in many 
ways. As noted previously, Roman armies can move 
three areas per turn, and are more powerful in battle. As 
discussed under “Stacking Limits” on page 9, Romans 
can have any number of armies in each non-difficult ter-
rain area and up to four in each difficult terrain area. In 
addition, the Romans are not subject to overpopulation, 
and skip the Overpopulation Phase on their nation turn. 
The Romans are different from other nations in a few 
other ways, discussed below. 
Roman Reinforcements
As a professional army based on the continent, the 
Romans do not Increase Population as other nations do, 
but they do receive reinforcements during the Population 
Increase Phase.
The number of Roman reinforcements depends on how 
many Roman armies remain in play, as follows:
Example: In Round 2, there are 12 Roman armies in 
play. They receive no reinforcements. Later, in Round 4, 
there are 9 Roman armies in play during the Population 
Increase Phase of the Roman nation turn. They receive 
one reinforcement. In Round 5 they have 9 armies (one 
was eliminated), so they receive no reinforcements.
Designer’s Note: This table not only reflects the decreasing size 
of the Roman army, but the decrease in the fighting capability 
of that army following the Empire’s crisis of the third century.
Roman reinforcements are placed in the English Channel 
during the Population Increase Phase of the Roman 
nation turn, and during the Movement Phase they must 
move to a land area adjacent to the English Channel (and 
may continue to move from there). 
Roman Legion Withdrawal in 
Round II
In Round 2, at the end of the Roman nation turn, if there 
are more than 12 Roman armies in play, the controlling 
player must remove armies to reduce the number to 12. 
Designer’s Note: This represents the withdrawal of one legion 
in AD 84/85, leaving three.
Roman Forts
The Romans build forts, which provide three advantages: 
1) They act as normal (not Roman) armies in battle, 2) 
they represent networks of Roman roads, and 3) they 
score points for the player controlling the Romans at the 
end of Round 5. Several nations also receive points for 
destroying Roman forts. 
When a Roman army becomes the sole occupant of any 
area for the first time, even if only moving through, and 
even if the Romans cannot score points for the area, a 
Roman fort is immediately built there. This fort acts as 
a normal army (not Roman army) that cannot move. 
Any Roman armies in an area must be eliminated by an 
attacker before the fort may be eliminated. Thus a die 
roll of 5 will not eliminate the fort unless any Roman 
armies present are eliminated by rolls of 6. (See “Phase 
III: Battles/Retreats” on pages 11-13.)
A fort is built only the first time the area is occupied by 
the Romans. If a Roman fort is eliminated in battle, do 
not remove it from the board, but instead flip it over to 
its “destroyed” side as a reminder that a Roman fort has 
already been built in that area. 
Roman forts do no count toward stacking limits.
Designer’s Note: The Roman forts partially represent the abil-
ity of the Romans to protect “civilization” in Britain. If an area 
is ravaged by enemies, then the Romans have failed, and the 
destroyed fort represents that failure. This is why forts cannot 
be rebuilt, and why destroyed forts do not score Limes points.
Roman Roads
Roman forts also signify the appearance and mainte-
nance of Roman roads. If a Roman army moves from a 
fort area to an adjacent fort area, it doesn’t count against 
that army’s capability to move three areas. If it moves 
from a non-fort area to an adjacent fort, or from a fort 
area to an adjacent non-fort area, it does count as one of 
the army’s three moves. 
Example: There are Roman forts in Essex, Suffolk, 
Lindsey, York, and Pennines. A Roman army in Cheshire 
moves to York, using up one of its three movements. It 
then uses the roads to move down to Essex, and then 
moves to Kent, using its second movement. It chooses not 
to move a third area. 
A Roman fort does not provide the Roman roads capa-
bility in the phase during which it is built. However, 
forts built during the first half of the Roman Major 
Invasion in Round 1 do provide road movement during 
the second half of the invasion.
If a Roman fort is destroyed, the Roads capability in that 
area is lost forever.
Difficult terrain areas with Roman forts are considered 
to have Roman roads. However, if a Roman army moves 
into a difficult terrain area containing a fort, from an area 
that does not contain a fort, it may move farther via the 
forts/roads but may not move on to a non-fort area (thus 
reflecting its move into the difficult terrain earlier).
Example: A Roman army in Cumbria moves to Pennines 
(difficult terrain). It can then move via the chain of forts 
to one of the areas occupied by a fort, but cannot move 
Roman Movement
1. A Roman army may move up to 3 spaces 
instead of the normal 2.
2. The Roman army first moves one space, 
from Wessex to Sussex. Using Roman 
roads, the Roman army does not have to 
spend any movement to go from Sussex to 
Essex. It uses its two remaining moves to 
move to Suffolk and then to North Mercia. 
3. The Roman army does not get road 
movement benefits from the destroyed fort.

Page 15
farther because its move into the difficult terrain was not 
via the Roman roads.
If a player wishes to move a Roman army across both 
Roman roads and a strait, the following rule applies: A 
Roman army that crosses a strait may use road move-
ment on either one end of the strait, but not both. No 
other movement can be combined with strait crossing. 
So a Roman can use road movement (only) before cross-
ing, but must then stop, or it can cross the strait as the 
first step of its movement and then use road movement 
(only) after crossing.
See “Welsh, Brigante, and Pict Submission to Roman 
Rule,” for details regarding Roman roads in submitted 
areas.
Roman Scoring in Rounds I-III
The Romans score points for occupying areas during 
their nation turn in Rounds 1-3. Like other nations, the 
Romans are considered to occupy an area if at any time 
during their nation turn they are the sole nation with 
units in an area. Like other nations, the Romans may 
only score for occupying each area once. It is easy to 
keep track of which areas the Romans have occupied, 
since there will be either an intact fort or a destroyed fort 
in each such area. 
The Romans may also score points for occupying areas 
in Rounds 1-3 if another nation submits to the Romans 
(see below) during these rounds. When the submission 
is declared, the Romans immediately score points for the 
areas occupied by the now-subject nation. If the nation 
later occupies a new area while still in submission to the 
Romans, the Romans score points as if they occupied the 
area at that time.
Limes at the End of Round V
Limes is the name given by the Romans to their defen-
sive lines/walls such as Hadrian’s Wall and the “Saxon 
Shore” forts, which were built as defenses against bar-
barian raids. Instead of scoring normal holding points 
at the end of Round 5, the Romans score points at the 
end of Round 5 for each area listed on their Nation Card 
that is either (a) occupied by an intact Roman fort, or (b) 
occupied by a subject nation (see below). 
Welsh, brigante, and Pict 
Submission to Roman Rule
When the Welsh, Brigantes, or Picts occupy five, three, 
or three areas or fewer, respectively, they may submit to 
Roman rule, but only during a Roman turn. This submis-
sion can only occur while Roman armies are still on the 
board. 
During the Roman nation turn, these nations may declare 
submission after any battle finishes, or after any round 
of battle (the effects of the dice rolls are still applied), or 
after any Roman Movement Phase. Any Roman armies 
stationed in an area held by a subject nation when submis-
sion is declared must move immediately to any adjacent 
Roman-occupied or vacant area(s). If they are then in an 
area with a fort, they can take advantage of Roman road 
movement to move farther. 
If there is no Roman-occupied or vacant area adjacent, 
the armies can be moved to any Roman-occupied area(s) 
adjacent to any area occupied by the submitting nation. 
If there is still none, they can be moved to any vacant 
area(s) adjacent to any area occupied by the submitting 
nation. If none of these apply, then the armies are elimi-
nated owing to the incompetent leadership!
Submitting has the following effects:
1. In Rounds 1-3, the Romans may immediately gain vic-
tory points for the areas occupied by the subject nation, as 
if the Romans occupied the area themselves. The Romans 
may not then later receive points for occupying those 
areas (since a nation can only score for occupying an area 
once). However, they may receive victory points for the 
areas held by the subject nation at the end of Round 5 (see 
“Limes at the End of Round 5,” above). 
2. The Romans can no longer attack the subject nation, 
and the subjects cannot attack the Romans or other Roman 
subjects. Subject armies can attack other nations not sub-
jected to the Romans, and can occupy vacant areas (even 
ones that contain a destroyed Roman fort). 
3. Subject nations receive only half the usual population 
points (round halves up). However, each turn the Roman 
player may allow subjects to Increase Population fully (so 
that the subjects can fight off mutual enemies). 
4. Subject nations receive only half the victory points for 
holding areas that they would normally earn at the end of 
Round 5 (round halves up). 
5. Subject nations cannot abandon (leave vacant at the end 
of their movement) any area they occupy at the beginning 
of movement unless permitted to do so by the Romans. 
(This prevents a subject nation from depriving the 
Romans of Limes points merely by abandoning an area.)
6. Roman armies can move freely through, but not end a 
turn in, subject areas, and subject areas where there is no 
destroyed Roman fort count as having Roman roads.
Subjection ends when the Romans leave, at the start of 
Round 6 (see below). 
Belgae Submission And 
Boudicca's Revolt
The Belgae may submit to the Romans only on the 
Roman nation turn of Round 1, if the Belgae are reduced 
to four or fewer areas. The Belgae must “unsubmit” 
on their own turn in Round 1 before their Population 
Increase Phase (this represents Boudicca’s revolt). 
Whether they submit or not, they place the leader 
Boudicca and one army at the end of the Population 
Increase Phase, without regard to stacking limits.
Roman Withdrawal in 
Round vi and Placement of 
Romano-British Armies
At the beginning of Round 6, the Romans do not take 
a nation turn. Instead, the Romans leave Britain (in 
order to help defend Italy and the Rhine frontier) and 
the Romano-British nation enters play. Romano-British 
armies are normal armies, and the Romano-British 
nation has different victory point objectives from the 
Romans.
The Romano-British do not perform the Population 
Increase Phase in Round 6. Instead, the player control-
ling the Romano-British must replace eight surviv-
ing Roman forts in or south of York and Cheshire 
with Romano-British armies. Any other Roman forts 
(destroyed or intact) are removed from the board. If there 
Arthur
In Round 7, the Romano-British 
receive a leader, Arthur, and 
two cavalry units, which may be 
placed at the end of the Population 
Increase Phase.
Arthur and his cavalry must be 
placed together. They may be 
placed in any area containing 
Roman-British armies, or any 
vacant land area south of Cumbria, 
Pennines, and Bernicia. Arthur and 
his cavalry are the only units in 
the game that can enter the game 
in a vacant land area. If there are 
no Romano-British armies on the 
board and no eligible vacant areas, 
Arthur and his cavalry may not be 
placed. Arthur and his cavalry may 
be placed without regard to stack-
ing limits, and may be placed even 
if there are no Romano-British 
armies on the board. 
At the beginning of Round 8, 
Arthur is removed from the board 
and his cavalry are replaced with 
infantry armies. If there are already 
eight Romano-British infantry 
armies on the board, the cavalry 
pieces may be used to represent 
infantry, thus circumventing the 
usual Romano-British maximum 
number of infantry armies.

Page 16
The first time you play Britannia, the 
concept of controlling multiple nations, and 
keeping track of their different victory point 
objectives, can seem a little overwhelming. 
However, there are only six nations on the 
board during the first several game rounds, 
so each player is only controlling one or two 
nations at first. We suggest that new players 
focus on just these nations’ objectives during 
the first few rounds. 
Please keep in mind that the strategies in 
Britannia are deep and varied, and that the 
“tips” on this page are only very general sug-
gestions for players new to the game. 
The player controlling the Romans has the 
most decisions to make during the early 
rounds. The Romans begin the game with 
16 armies in the English Channel, and the 
Romans take their nation turn first. Further­
more, the Romans have a Major Invasion (see 
page 10) on Round 1, meaning that all their 
armies will move and attack twice. Before 
moving any armies, the Roman player should 
consult the Roman Nation Card to see what 
the Romans’ victory point objectives are. 
The Nation Card shows that the Romans 
receive 6 victory points if the Belgae submit 
to them on Round 1 (see page 15). The Belgae 
may only submit if they are reduced to 4 or 
fewer areas during the Round 1 Roman nation 
turn, so the player controlling the Romans 
could choose to attack the Belgae. However, 
the player controlling the Belgae decides 
whether they submit or not; the Romans can-
not force submission. 
Looking a little further ahead, the Nation Card 
indicates that the Romans receive victory 
points for occupying certain areas in Rounds 
1-3 (see page 15). Looking at the map, the 
player controlling the Romans should note 
that they receive more points for occupying 
northern areas than for southern areas. For 
example, the Romans score four victory points 
for occupying Mar, compared to only one for 
Gwynedd and other more southern areas. So 
the player controlling the Romans may want 
to push north, hoping to occupy high-scoring 
territories by the end of the Roman nation turn 
on Round 3.
On the other hand, the player controlling 
the Romans may also try to get the Welsh, 
the Brigantes, or the Picts to submit to the 
Romans (see page 15), so that he can receive 
points for the areas these nations occupy. 
Finally, the Romans score points for limes 
(see page 15) at the end of Round 5. The play-
er controlling the Romans may want to try to 
build forts in as many areas and possible, and 
keep them from being destroyed, to maximize 
the Romans’ scoring opportunity in Round 5. 
The player controlling the Romans should also 
remember the advantages the Romans have in 
battle (see page 11) and the extra mobility they 
have from being able to move three areas and 
from Roman roads (see pages 14-15).
The Brigantes
The player controlling the Brigantes begins 
with relatively few units on the board, at least 
compared to the Romans. Still, he should try 
to get the maximum number of victory points 
from them. 
The Brigante Nation Card shows that the 
Brigantes receive points for eliminating 
Roman armies and forts, so the player con-
trolling the Brigantes may want to focus on 
attacking the Romans. 
However, the player controlling the Brigantes 
should also be aware of which territories the 
Brigantes score the most for holding at the 
end of Round 5: Strathclyde and Galloway. 
The controlling player may want to focus on 
getting armies into these areas, and holding 
them, rather than throwing all the Brigantes’ 
strength at the Romans.
The Welsh and the Caledonians
Like the Brigantes, the Welsh score points for 
eliminating Roman armies and forts. They 
also receive 2 victory points for eliminat-
ing the Saxon leader Aelle, but the Timeline 
shows that Aelle does not enter the game until 
Round 6. 
The Welsh score points in Round 5 for hold-
ing areas in Wales, so they may want to focus 
on defending them.
The Caledonians do not score points for elimi-
nating Roman units. In fact, they only score 
for holding certain areas during the scoring 
rounds highlighted on the Timeline. The 
Caledonians face a unique challenge in that 
all their units are in areas with difficult ter-
rain. The player controlling the Caledonians 
should think about the best way to keep hold 
of the more northern areas, such as Orkneys 
and Hebrides, that score the most points for 
the Caledonians.
The Belgae and the Picts
As mentioned above, the Belgae may submit 
to the Romans if it appears that the Romans 
may eliminate too many Belgae units. Even 
if the Belgae do submit during the Roman 
nation turn in Round 1, they unsubmit during 
their own nation turn (see page 15). 
Furthermore, the Belgae leader Boudicca and 
one Belgae army enter the game during the 
Population Increase Phase of their Round 1 
nation turn, which will help them in battle 
against the Romans. This Belgae army may be 
placed in any area with Belgae units, without 
regard to stacking limits (page 15). Keep in 
mind that the Belgae score 6 points for elimi-
nating Roman armies and forts in Round 1, 
but fewer points thereafter.
The Picts receive points for eliminating 
Roman armies and forts, and for holding cer-
tain areas at the end of the scoring rounds. 
The player controlling the Picts should also 
note that the Picts have Raiding turns in 
Rounds 4 and 5. The Picts follow special rules 
for Raiding, as described on page 10. 
Looking Ahead
As players become familiar with the game, 
they should look ahead on the Timeline and 
Nation Cards to see when their other nations 
appear, and what those nations’ objectives are.
Please visit 
www.fantasyflightgames.com 
for more strategy tips.
Tips for Your First Game

Page 17
are fewer than eight forts left, then Roman armies in or 
south of York and Cheshire are replaced by Romano-
British armies, without regard to stacking limits, until 
there are eight Romano-British armies on the board. Any 
remaining Roman armies are then removed from the 
board. No Romano-British army can be placed north of 
York and Cheshire, regardless of the location of forts and 
Roman armies. If there are not enough Roman forts and 
armies in the permitted areas, then the Romano-British 
will have fewer than eight armies. 
The Romano-British perform the Population Increase 
Phase as normal after Round 6. The Romano-British also 
receive a leader, Arthur, in Round 7. See the sidebar on 
page 15. 
The Romano-British and 
Submitted Nations
Until the beginning of Round 8, the Romano-British 
cannot attack any nation that submitted to the Romans 
unless that nation has already attacked the Romano-
British. If such an attack happens in Rounds 6 or 7, 
the Romano-British may attack the formerly submitted 
nation who attacked, and score points for eliminating 
armies of that nation (as they do for Angles, Saxons, 
and Jutes) until the beginning of Round 8.
Because the Belgae rebel against the Romans even if 
they originally submitted, the Romano-British may 
freely attack the Belgae.
Other Rules
This section covers finer rules points as well as rules that 
apply to certain nations at particular points in the game.
Negotiations
Players are likely to wish to discuss cooperation with 
other players. Unfortunately, discussions of this kind 
tend to lengthen the game, and many Britannia play-
ers prefer to have no negotiations at all. Consequently, 
players may discuss strategy and negotiate agreements 
only while another player is taking his turn, and only 
over the board (no secret negotiations). No deal can be 
binding, that is, “backstabbing” is perfectly legal (and 
encouraged – to discourage deal-making!). 
Tracking 
Occupied Areas
Each nation except the Danes may only score points 
for occupying a given area once, as described on page 
6. Keeping track of which areas a nation has already 
occupied isn’t a problem for the Norwegians and the 
Normans, since they may only score occupy points in 
Round 15.
However, the Welsh are able to score points for occupy-
ing York in both Rounds 8 and 9, and the Norsemen are 
able to score points for occupying several areas from 
the time they enter the game in Round 11 through to the 
end of the game. To keep track of whether these nations 
have occupied a given area, players may want to place 
the victory point tokens that the Welsh or Norsemen 
receive for occupying these areas in the area itself, and 
then later remove them to the Nation Card at the end of 
Round 9 for the Welsh and the end of Round 16 for the 
Norsemen. 
Remember, however, that the Norsemen may score 
points for holding areas in Rounds 13 and 16 even if 
they have already scored for occupying the areas. 
Saxon Burhs 
In Rounds 12 and 13, the Saxons may choose to build 
burhs, fortified dwellings, during their Population 
Increase Phase. Each burh costs just two population 
points – one third the cost of a normal army. Only one 
burh may be in an area (if one is destroyed, another may 
be built there), and no burh may be in difficult terrain.
The number of burhs that can be built on a turn is lim-
ited, and a Saxon that is doing well may be unable to 
build any at all. The maximum number of burhs that the 
Saxon may build is equal to eight minus the number of 
areas held by Saxons. So if, at the Population Increase 
Phase, the Saxon occupies six areas, he can build no 
more than two burhs (eight minus six).
Burhs cannot move. A burh fights as a normal army 
and counts as a normal army for purposes of Population 
Increase, Overpopulation, stacking limits, overruns 
and the maximum total number of armies (20) that the 
Saxons may have in play at any time. 
Burhs can remain on the board until the end of the game. 
However, in Rounds 14 through 16, if there is a battle 
involving a burh in which Saxons take a loss, the burh 
must be lost first.
Designer’s Note: At this period the Vikings did not have the 
siege equipment or experience to take fortified places. The 
Saxons regularly manned the burhs, helping provide quick-
reaction forces. While the burhs did not cause the defeat of the 
Danes, they did assure that the Saxons would survive, as finally 
the “Great Army” gave up and settled down to farming. As the 
Saxons retook parts of England, they built additional burhs to 
hold areas.
The scale of the game makes it impossible to show the intrica-
cies of this warfare. By the time of renewed serious Danish 
invasions, the Danes were able to take such fortified places 
(only London could hold out), so no new burhs can be built 
then and they will gradually disappear from the game.
The limit on the number of burhs can be interpreted two ways: 
1) If the Saxons are doing very well, why would they develop a 
The Angles are the only other nation 
besides the Romans that may have another 
nation – the Brigantes – submit to them. 
Brigante submission to the Angles is also 
unique in that the effects of submission 
are different in some areas compared to 
others. 
The Brigantes may only submit to the 
Angles once the Romans have left. 
They may only submit to the Angles if 
in Scotland, but also including the area 
of Galloway, the Brigantes only occupy 
one or two areas. It does not matter if 
the Brigantes occupy other areas outside 
Scotland (except for Galloway). 
Designer’s Note: There were actually several 
British nations in the area for a time (Rheged 
and Gododdin were some others). This rule 
allows the Angles to, in effect, eliminate the 
non-Strathclyde nations, leaving the British 
nation of Strathclyde.
The effects of submission are as described 
for the Romans with one exception. The 
Angles can score victory points at the end 
of Round 7 and Round 10 for all Brigante-
occupied areas, and the Brigantes will 
score half victory points for their areas. 
They will gain half or full population 
points (depending on the Angle choice) 
for all their areas. However, unlike the 
Romans and their subject nations, the 
Angles are not allowed to move through 
Brigante-occupied spaces. 
Once the Brigantes submit, none of their 
armies may attack the Angles; but Angles 
can attack Brigante-occupied areas in 
Wales and England (except Galloway), 
and Brigantes there will fight back. Also, 
the Brigantes may freely vacate those 
areas without permission.
Submission ends at the end of Round 
12, or when all Angle armies have been 
eliminated.
Brigante Submission to the Angles

Page 18
new type of fortification? 2) The rule is intended to help prop 
up weak Saxons for the end game, not help strong ones!
The Bretwalda 
At the end of Rounds 8, 9, and 10, nations vote for a 
“Bretwalda” (overlord) of England. 
Designer’s Note: The Bretwalda is not the king of the entire 
country, but is a king of a region within the country who is 
acknowledged lord of the kings of the other regions. The “sub-
ordinate” kings might pay tribute (or, more likely, give pres-
ents), but the Bretwaldaship is more prestige than substance. A 
single battle could result in a change of Bretwalda. Battles and 
wars commonly took place despite recognition of a Bretwalda. 
When the Bretwalda died, a struggle among several kings for 
the succession often followed. Nevertheless, the Bretwalda 
often came from the same nation for several generations. At 
other times there was no Bretwalda at all. The Bretwalda was 
largely an Anglo-Saxon institution, and hence ceased to exist 
once the Danes started overrunning large parts of England.
Each nation has one “vote” for each English area it 
occupies. At the end of the round nations cast their votes 
for which nation they choose as Bretwalda. Players may 
only vote for a nation that controls an area in England. 
A nation’s vote cannot be divided, nor can it abstain. If 
one nation gains a majority (that is, more than half) of 
the votes cast, then that nation claims the Bretwalda. 
The nation gains four victory points, even if this is not 
stated on their Nation Card.
Note: If the Brigantes have submitted to the Angles (see 
the sidebar on page 17), Brigante-occupied Galloway 
must vote with the Angles. Any other Brigante-occupied 
English areas can vote as the player controlling the 
Brigantes sees fit.
In most cases it will not be necessary to have a secret 
ballot, but any player may call for a secret ballot, and 
then each player writes down (secretly, of course) his 
votes, to be revealed simultaneously.
The King
About the time the Viking raids began, political inte-
gration and social development progressed to the point 
that one man could call himself King of England. In the 
game, at the end of Rounds 11, 12, 13, and 14, if any 
nation occupies twice as many areas in England as any 
other nation (minimum of 4), that nation claims Kingship 
of England. If no nation meets these criteria, there is no 
King. There is no determination of King at the end of 
Round 15, owing to the succession crisis depicted in the 
last two rounds.
The King’s nation gains eight victory points and 
an extra infantry unit, which is immediately placed 
on the board according to the placement rules for the 
Population Increase Phase. 
The Danish Turn in Round 11
The Danes enter the game in Round 11, with Raiding 
armies in both the North Sea and the Frisian Sea. These 
armies represent the series of raids that the Danes made 
on Britain in the thirty years prior to the more organized 
invasion of the “Great Army” of Danes in 865. The 
Great Army’s invasion is represented in the game by the 
Danes’ Major Invasion in Round 12. 
In Round 11, two special rules apply to the Danes. First, 
their armies must return to sea, as stated on the Timeline 
and the Danes’ Nation Card. The armies may return to 
the sea area they started their nation turn in via any of the 
three ways discussed under “Raiding Turns” (page 10).
Second, the Danes may score points in Round 11 for the 
areas they occupy. Normally, when a nation is eligible 
to score points for occupying areas, as indicated on its 
Nation Card, the nation may score points whenever it 
is the sole nation with units in the area, as discussed 
on pages 5-6. However, in Round 11, the Danes only 
score for areas they occupy at the start of their Raider 
Withdrawal Phase: They cannot score points for merely 
moving through empty areas. (In Round 12, however, the 
Danes score points for occupying certain areas accord-
ing to the normal rules, and they can score again for the 
areas they earned occupy points for in Round 11.) 
The Danish Turn in 
Round 14 and King Cnut
During the Raider Withdrawal Phase of the Danish 
nation turn in Round 14, any four Danish armies plus 
the leader Cnut must be removed from the board 
(they return to Denmark). No route is needed – they 
simply disappear. If, when placing the six invading 
Danish armies at the beginning of Round 14, there are 
not enough armies to place all six, the difference is sub-
tracted from the four armies that the Danes must remove 
at the end of the Danish nation turn. For example, if only 
three armies can invade (shortfall of three), only one 
army needs to be withdrawn at the end of the Danish 
nation turn instead of four. 
Immediately prior to the Raider Withdrawal Phase of the 
Danish turn in Round 14 (just before the withdrawal of 
Cnut and his armies), if the Danes hold twice as many 
areas in England as any other nation, and Cnut is alive, 
Cnut becomes King and the Danes gain eight victory 
points. The Danes do not receive an army for Cnut being 
King. Normal kingship is still decided normally at the end 
of the round. Thus, there can be two Kings in Round 14.
The King in Round 16
There is no kingship in Round 15. In Round 16 the king-
ship is determined at the end of the turn by the usual 
rules, but only Harold, William, Harald Hardrada, and 
Svein Estrithson are eligible (if alive). If all but one of 
these leaders are dead, however, the surviving one auto-
matically becomes King. Ten victory points are given 
for this endgame kingship.
Important: If some nation other than the ones men-
tioned above holds twice as many areas as the prospec-
tive King’s nation, there is no king in Round 16. 
Round XVI Special 
Reinforcements
In Round 16, the Norwegians, the Normans, and the 
Saxons each receive special reinforcements. These armies 
are placed on the board at the beginning of Round 16, 
not during the nation turns, and these armies are in addi-
tion to any armies these three nations receive during the 
Population Increase Phases of their nation turns. 
Norwegians 
The Norwegians receive one additional reinforcing 
army, in the North Sea, for each area that they occupy. 
The Norwegians receive no special reinforcements if 
Harald Hardrada is not in play.
Normans
The Normans receive reinforcing armies in the English 
Channel according to the areas occupied by them at the 
end of Round 15: one for Essex, one for Wessex, one for 
Hwicce, and one for South Mercia. They gain three if 
Harold the Saxon is not in play at the end of the Norman 
nation turn in Round 15. All of these are infantry armies, 
but the Normans can choose to take cavalry armies at the 
rate of one cavalry army in place of two infantry armies. 
For example, if the Normans were due to receive three 
infantry armies, the controlling player could elect 
to take one cavalry army and one infantry army 
(assuming that these armies were available from 
the supply). The Normans receive no special 
reinforcements if William is not in play. 
Saxons
The Saxons receive reinforcing 
armies according to the areas 
occupied by them at the end 
of Round 15: one for every 
two areas in England (round 
down) provided that Harold 
the Saxon is in an English 
area. These armies must 
be placed in English 
areas. The Saxons 
receive no special rein-
forcements if Harold is not 
in an English area. 
Reinforcements are placed in 
order of normal play. If there 
are not enough unused armies 
for all of these reinforcements, 

Page 19
the excess are lost, even if more armies become avail-
able later in the turn.
Regardless of whether these nations receive special 
reinforcements or not (because their leader is alive 
or dead), they still perform their Population Increase 
Phase normally. 
Winning the Game
At the end of the game each player adds together the 
number of victory points that each of his nations has 
scored. The player with the most victory points wins the 
game.
Strategy Notes
Britannia is different from many other games insofar 
as it is never immediately obvious which player is 
winning. At any time, any player may ask for, and must 
be given, the current point total for any nation or player. 
Each player accumulates points at a different rate, some 
scoring many points early (such as the player controlling 
the Romans), some scoring many later in the game (such 
as the player controlling the Danes). Experienced players 
will learn to recognize who is doing better or worse than 
the average. If one player is clearly doing better than 
anyone else, the others may try to gang up on the leader.
In a game of this scope it is impossible to force play-
ers to do exactly as their nations did historically, but the 
game is arranged so that a player who indulges in bizarre 
moves, from a historical viewpoint, will fail to score 
many points. Moreover, because there are several play-
ers, each player is, in effect, outnumbered. If a player 
makes an ill-considered move in order to hurt another 
player, he will hurt himself as well, and the remaining 
player(s) will benefit. In the process of following his his-
torical objectives each player will have ample chances to 
hinder his opponents.
BRITANNIA with 
Three or Five 
Players
When playing Britannia with three or five players, 
all the rules of play remain the same. However, the way 
the nations are divided among the players is different 
than in the four-player game. Since the game compo-
nents are color-coded for the four-player game, in the 
three- and five-player games players will control pieces 
of more than one color, and players must use the Nation 
Cards to remember which player controls which nation. 
Three-Player Game
In a three-player game, the nations are divided as 
follows:
Player 1: the Romans, the Romano-British, the Scots, the 
Dubliners, the Danes, and the Jutes. 
Player 2: the Belgae, the Welsh, the Picts, the Angles, 
and the Normans.
Player 3: the Brigantes, the Caledonians, the Irish, the 
Norsemen, the Norwegians, and the Saxons. 
Five-Player Game
In a five-player game, the nations are divided as follows:
Player 1: the Romans, the Romano-British, the Scots, 
and the Norwegians.
Player 2: the Welsh, the Danes, and the Jutes.
Player 3: the Brigantes, the Irish, the Norsemen, and the 
Normans.
Player 4: the Belgae, the Picts, and the Angles.
Player 5: the Caledonians, the Dubliners, and the Saxons.
Game Variants and 
Optional Rules
Shorter game variants and optional rules are discussed 
below.
Shorter Three-Player 
Variant
This version for three players begins after the Romans 
have left Britain, and ends with the attacks of the 
Vikings. It takes about half as long to play as the stan-
dard four-player game. 
The nations are divided as follows:
Player 1: the Romano-British, the Welsh, the Brigantes, 
the Caledonians, and the Danes.
Player 2: the Picts, the Irish, the Norsemen, the Saxons. 
Player 3: the Scots, the Jutes, Angles, and the Dubliners. 
The Romans, the Belgae, the Norwegians, and the 
Normans are not used in this variant. 
Each nation places one infantry in each the following 
areas:
The Romano-British (6 armies): Avalon, Downlands, 
Hwicce, North Mercia, South Mercia, York.
The Welsh (7 armies): Cheshire, Clwyd, Devon, Gwent, 
Gwynedd, March, Powys.
The Brigantes (6 armies): Bernicia, Cumbria, 
Galloway, Lothian, Pennines, Strathclyde
The Caledonians (2 armies): Caithness, Orkneys.
The Picts (5 armies): Alban, Dunedin, Mar, Moray, 
Skye.
The Irish (2 armies): Cornwall, Dyfed.
The Scots (2 armies): Dalriada, Hebrides.
The Jutes (2 armies): Kent, Essex.
The Saxons (2 armies): Sussex, Wessex.
The Angles (3 armies): Lindsey, Norfolk, Suffolk.
The game begins in Round 6, using the normal invaders 
on that round per the Timeline, and continues until the 
end of Round 13. The setup is not exactly representative 
of 430, as far as we know it, but does depict some of the 
settlements already made by the new invaders around the 
coasts of Britain.
Remember, there is no Romano-British Population 
Increase Phase in Round 6. The Brigantes and the Welsh 
are treated as having been submitted to the Romans. 
Since the Romano-British player also controls these two 
nations, no points may be scored by the Romano-British 
for eliminating their armies. Furthermore, to show their 
tolerance of Anglo-Saxon federates, on Round 6 the 
Romano-British may not attack the Jutes, Saxons, or 
Angles (but the Romano-British defend normally against 
attacks from these nations).
Two-Player Scenarios
The two-player scenarios are provided as a way to 
become familiar with the game, or to allow players to 
practice, when only two people are available. Inevitably, 
chance can play a large part in the outcome of a two-
player version. Owing to stylistic differences in how 
people play Britannia, it is virtually impossible to 
find an exact balance between two sides. Consequently, 
these should be viewed as practice scenarios rather than 
complete games.
Early Invaders vs. Inhabitants of Britain
Player 1: the Romans, the Caledonians, and the Scots.
This scenario lasts only to the end of Round 5.
Setup: As at the start of the four-player game.
Special rules: The Belgae, the Welsh, the Brigantes, 
and the Picts must submit to the Romans if they meet 
the submission criteria. (This is because, in a short two-
player game, these nations would prefer to fight to the 
death if they could.)
Germanic Invaders vs. Inhabitants of 
Britain
Player 1: the Angles, the Irish, the Jutes, the Saxons, and 
the Scots
This scenario lasts from the start of Round 6 to the end 
of Round 10.
Belgae pieces are used to represent additional Romano-
British inhabitants, played separately from the Romano-
British but under the same rules (no Population Increase 

Page 20
Phase in Turn 6, for example) and with the same victory 
point objectives. Setup is as follows:
The Romano-British (7 infantry): Avalon, Bernicia, 
Cheshire, Hwicce, March, Wessex, York
The “Belgae” (7 armies): Essex, Kent, North Mercia, 
Norfolk, South Mercia, Suffolk, Sussex
The Welsh (6 armies): All areas of Wales except the 
one occupied by the Irish.
The Brigantes (4 armies): Cumbria, Galloway, Lothian, 
Strathclyde
The Caledonians (3 armies): Caithness, Hebrides, 
Orkneys
The Picts (5 armies): Alban, Dunedin, Mar, Moray, 
Skye
The Irish (1 army): Cornwall
The Scots (1 army): Dalriada
Empty areas: Downlands, Lindsey, Pennines
Vikings vs. the Inhabitants of Britain
Player 1: the Danes, the Dubliners, and the Norsemen
This scenario lasts from start of Round 11 to the end of 
Round 14. 
Setup: Each nation places one infantry unit each in the 
following areas:
The Welsh (4 armies): Cheshire, Clwyd, Gwent, Powys
The Brigantes (2 armies): Galloway, Strathclyde
The Caledonians (2 armies): Hebrides, Orkneys
The Picts (4 armies): Alban, Caithness, Mar, Moray
The Irish (1 army): Cornwall
The Scots (3 armies): Dalriada, Dunedin, Skye
The Saxons (5 armies): Avalon, Devon, Hwicce, 
Sussex, Wessex
The Jutes (1 army): Kent
The Angles (8 armies): Bernicia, Essex, Lothian, 
Norfolk, North Mercia, South Mercia, Suffolk, York
Empty areas: Cumbria, Downlands, Dyfed, Gwynedd, 
Lindsey, March, Pennines
Bidding for Sides 
Some gaming groups or individual players believe that 
one combination of nations has a better chance of win-
ning than others. To accommodate that point of view, 
players may wish to allocate nations by the bidding 
method described below. Note that players are still 
restricted to using the combination of nations described 
for the three-, four-, and five-player games as listed in 
these rules. The players are bidding for which group of 
nations they will control, not auctioning off each nation 
one at a time. Players may bid victory points in order to 
get the group of nations they prefer. 
Randomly determine which player bids first, with bid-
ding passing around the table to the left. Use the Nation 
Card from one nation from each group of nations being 
bid on (for example, for the four-player game, use one 
Nation Card of each color). 
The first bidder selects the Nation Card representing the 
group of nations he wants to play. He places it in front 
him and announces the bid he wishes to make on that 
group of nations. A bid may be zero, one, or more points. 
Place victory point tokens on the card to indicate the bid.
The second player may either select an unselected 
Nation Card (placing a bid of zero or more on it) or raise 
the bidding on the already-selected Nation Card. If he 
chooses the latter, he must raise the bid by at least one. 
The third player may choose an unselected card or raise 
the bidding on an already-selected card, and so on. 
When the bidding comes around to a player who has 
a card in front of him, that player must pass. Once all 
players have passed, the bidding ends. 
Each bid represents the number of victory points the 
player is willing to lose at the end of the game if he is 
able to play the group in question. So when bidding is 
over, if a player’s bid for his selected group of nations is 
two, he will subtract two victory points from his total at 
the end of the game. Write these numbers down, and put 
the victory point tokens used for bidding in the main pile 
with the rest of the victory point tokens. 
Example (standard four-player game): Steve, Torben, 
Jim, and Roseanna sit around a table in that order. 
Steve is going to bid first. He takes the Nation Card for 
group 4 and places it in front of him (this is a bid of zero 
points). Torben takes the card for group 2, but thinking 
others might want it, he places one victory point token 
on it in hopes of discouraging further bidding for that 
group. Jim takes the card for group 4 from Steve and 
puts one token on it. Roseanna takes the card for group 
3 and places no tokens on it. Steve could then take the 
card for group 1, ending the bidding, but he takes the 
card for group 3 from Roseanne and places a bid of one 
on it. Torben and Jim pass, since they have a card in 
front of them. Roseanna, however, takes the group 3 card 
from Torben and puts another token on it, making it a 
bid of two. Steve passes. Torben then decides to take the 
card for group 1. 
The result: Steve plays group 3 at the cost of one victory 
point, Torben plays group 1 at no cost, Jim plays group 
4 at the cost of one victory point, and Roseanna plays 
group 2 at the cost of two victory points.
If all the players agree, they can speed up the bidding 
procedure by requiring a minimum amount by which 
players must outbid one another, for example, 5 points. 
Initial bids may still be any value, including zero. 
Complete Unit List
Each nation is limited in how many infantry and cavalry 
units it may have on board by the number of components 
supplied in the game. The Romans are not limited by 
the number of forts provided (although it is unlikely they 
will need more than 24). The rules governing Saxon 
burhs (see page 17) limit the number of burhs that may 
be built to 6. Below is a full list of each nation’s playing 
pieces.
Romans: 16 infantry, 24 forts
Romano-British: 8 infantry, 2 cavalry, Arthur
Belgae: 10 infantry, Boudicca
Welsh: 13 infantry
Brigantes: 11 infantry, Urien 
Caledonians: 7 infantry
Picts: 10 infantry
Irish: 8 infantry
Scots: 11 infantry, Fergus Mor Mac Erc
Norsemen: 10 infantry, Ketil Flatnose
Dubliners: 9 infantry, Olaf Guthfrithsson
Danes: 18 infantry, Ivar and Halfdan, Cnut, Svein 
Estrithson
Norwegians: 12 infantry, Harald Hardrada
Saxons: 20 infantry, 8 burhs, Aelle, Egbert, Alfred, 
Edgar, Harold
Jutes: 6 infantry
Angles: 17 infantry, Ida, Oswiu, Offa
Normans: 8 infantry, 4 cavalry, William

Page 21
Designer’s Notes
Britannia is essentially a four-player game. 
Everything in the design was created with four players in 
mind. Nonetheless, it can be played with numbers other 
than four, and in scenarios shorter than the entire game. 
Additional scenarios and versions of the game will be 
posted on the World Wide Web at 
www.fantasyflightgames.com 
and 
http://PulsipherGames.com/britannia.htm.
This game is different from the first editions of the 
game, but matches the original intent of the designer 
and adds more “historicity” without changing play-
ability. One of the biggest differences is that individual 
armies are not “raiders” or “settlers”; the entire nation, 
for decades or centuries, tends to raid. During the raid-
ing period armies can always decide to stay in Britain 
(settle) if circumstances warrant it. But when circum-
stances change and its time to settle, raiding is no longer 
possible – “the party’s on” and the invaders must come 
to stay. 
There are significant differences between this version 
and the earlier H. P. Gibsons and Avalon Hill versions 
(which differed substantially from one another). The 
text of the Avalon Hill version is available on the Web 
at http://PulsipherGames.com/britannia.htm along with 
the Gibsons rules. The only board change is in north-
ern England; in the earlier versions, Cumbria, Lothian, 
Pennines, and Galloway met at a point, and no army 
could travel across that point.
We have tweaked the numbers of armies available to 
nations, tweaked the appearance settings, and so forth. 
There are substantial differences in the Roman invasion 
(Roman roads, Boudicca’s revolt, and Roman reinforce-
ments). The original version of rolling dice against 
Romans and cavalry is used rather than the Avalon Hill 
version. The endgame has been modified to make it 
“Four Kings”* rather than three or two (Harold hardly 
had a chance). We have discouraged grossly ahistorical 
actions such as the “MacArthur” strategy and various 
“hideout” strategies. But much of the effort went into 
consolidating the several different sets of rules. 
*There’s some literary license in the ending of this edi-
tion of Britannia. Svein Estrithson did not become 
involved until William had conquered England. In other 
words, the 1066 ending of the first edition is more strict-
ly accurate historically, but for game purposes we want-
ed to have “Four Kings” at the end rather than three.
Historical notes
During World War II the British proudly proclaimed 
that their island had not been (successfully) invaded 
since 1066. Every British schoolboy knows the story 
of 1066 and all that, even if he knows no other date in 
British history. Yet before the famous “last invasion” of 
William the Conqueror, the island of Great Britain was 
the battleground for dozens of invading tribes, of great 
movements which caught up entire peoples, sweep-
ing them into the highlands or into oblivion. The game 
Britannia depicts the violent age which began with 
the establishment of the Roman province of Britanniae 
after the second Roman invasion of 43 AD, and ended 
with the firm imprint of Norman authority. 
The first violent contact of the civilized world with what 
was then a “barbarian” Celtic land was Julius Caesar’s 
punitive expeditions of 55 and 54 BC. Although Caesar 
defeated his enemies, he only intended to punish British 
tribes that supported the Gauls of France. After accom-
plishing this he withdrew to complete the conquest of 
Gaul. The Romans finally came to stay in 43 AD, partly 
because the emperor Claudius desired some conquest to 
add to his list of otherwise peaceful accomplishments, 
and partly in response to calls for aid from British tribes 
allied to Rome. Four well-organized Roman legions, 
with auxiliary troops, rapidly conquered the south and 
Midlands. Wales took longer to subdue. The tribes of 
northern England became Roman allies. In 60-61, while 
the Roman armies were fighting in Wales, many British 
tribes rebelled under the leadership of the famous war-
rior queen Boudicca, who burned London and other 
Romanized cities. Thousands were slaughtered, but 
the legions experienced little difficulty in defeating the 
revolt. A generation of peace followed.
When the Romans arrived, Britain was inhabited by 
many independent Celtic and pre-Celtic tribes, including 
some recent migrants from the Continent. In the game 
they are somewhat arbitrarily divided into several large 
groups. The Brigantes, who include the largest British 
tribe, could just as well be called Strathclyders, for after 
the Romans left the northerners maintained an indepen-
dent state in Strathclyde for six centuries. Other Celtic 
tribes became the people we know today as Welsh. 
“Belgae” was the name given to migrants from the 
Continent (especially Belgium), but southern England 
was actually a welter of tribes and federations. Many 
Celts were content if not eager to gain the advantages of 
life within the Empire, and those who resisted failed to 
cooperate effectively. In any case, the unmatched Roman 
military system of professional legions and stone forts 
was more than the ill-prepared barbarians could with-
stand.
Farther north, the more primitive Picts knew little of the 
benefits of Roman civilization. They raided the south, 
first by land and later by sea, and were never completely 
subdued. In the far north of Britain dwelled peoples 
known collectively as the Broch Builders, after the round 
stone towers which served as dwelling and fortress. In 
the game these people are called Caledonians, though 
this term was generally applied by the Romans to all 
the unconquered people of northern Britain. Before the 
Roman invasion they probably fought with the Picts, but 
later the Picts turned south and the north experienced 
economic decline into political oblivion.
The Romans extended their control with a campaign 
beginning in 78 AD which completed the conquest of 
northern England and led to the construction of fortifica-
tions in southern Scotland. The Roman general Agricola 
claimed to have defeated the last organized Pictish resis-
tance in 84, but for various reasons – lack of manpower, 
lack of interest, a change in commanders – the Romans 
gradually withdrew to northern England. During emperor 
Hadrian’s reign (117-138) a wall was built across the 
narrowest part of northern England to interfere with 
Pictish raids. At first an earthen wall, it was later par-
tially replaced with stone. The wall was not manned all 
along its length, nor did it hold back Pictish sea-borne 
raids, but it was an important part of the Roman system 
of fortification which covered (and controlled) the coun-
try. Later a turf wall was constructed farther north, along 
the line joining where Glasgow and Edinburgh now 
stand, but during internal strife in the Empire late in the 
century this Antonine Wall was abandoned.
Thenceforth most of Britain was blessed with peace, 
with rare interludes when struggles among generals who 
declared themselves emperor stripped the frontiers of 
troops. Raids by Picts, Scotti from the west (who we 
call Irish, to differentiate them from the more northern 
Scotti that we call Scots), and Anglo-Saxons (including 

Page 22
Jutes, Franks, Frisians, and others) from Denmark and 
Germany forced construction of additional defenses, 
such as the “Saxon Shore” forts. These raids penetrated 
beyond the border areas only once. However, the Empire 
as a whole experienced a slow decline in influence 
beyond its borders and power within.
When Germanic barbarians threatened Gaul and Italy – 
Rome was sacked in 410 – the Roman legions withdrew 
from Britain, and emperor Honorius told the Romano-
British people to look after their own defense until the 
Romans could return – but they never returned. As the 
Roman Empire crumbles history becomes uncertain. 
Scholars disagree about dates, sequences of events, even 
about the existence of important kings and the loca-
tion of decisive battles. This is the true “Dark Age” in 
Britain. Though disunited, the British managed to hold 
off the Anglo-Saxon, Pict, and Irish invaders for a time. 
Probably Saxons were invited to settle in Britain to help 
the inhabitants fight invaders. At any rate, ultimately the 
Anglo-Saxons turned on the British, and in the ensuing 
war the basis of civilization was destroyed in Britain, 
about 440-450. The British continued to fight, ultimately 
under the leadership of the possibly historical king (or 
perhaps “war leader”) Arthur. This culminated in a great 
British victory which contained the Anglo-Saxons for 
two generations. Arthur was probably a cavalry leader 
but certainly not the romantic knight of later Welsh leg-
end. After his death and the disintegration of political 
unity among the British, additional invaders helped the 
settled Anglo-Saxons complete the defeat of the inhabit-
ants, who were subjugated or forced into the highlands 
of Wales, Cornwall, and Scotland. Even Christianity 
disappeared. Many Britons had migrated to Brittany in 
France, while plague killed many others. By 600 the 
Anglo-Saxons controlled most of England, and in the 
next 200 years they gained the rest. 
Something should be said about the nature of the inva-
sions. While the Romans were highly organized and 
could depend on reinforcements and supplies from the 
Continent, later invaders tended to be unorganized bands 
of barbarians looking for plunder or, rarely, for a place to 
settle. The Anglo-Saxons and their contemporaries, and 
later the Vikings, followed this pattern. Toward the end 
of the period covered by the game invading groups were 
better organized; they conducted real invasions under 
acknowledged leaders instead of fragmented migrations 
and piracy. The first of these was the “Great Army” of 
the Danes which swept all before it until it broke up, and 
later the invasions of Svein Forkbeard (not Estrithson) 
and Cnut of Denmark, Harald the Ruthless (or “Stern 
Council”) of Norway, and Duke William of Normandy. 
By the time of Svein Forkbeard the Viking homelands 
had become distinct centralized kingdoms which sent 
deliberately equipped invading armies instead of just 
groups of plundering freebooters.
After the Romans left, the art of fortification was largely 
lost. Although the Danes and English of Wessex built 
earthen fortified town/forts (“burhs”), these were rare 
and could not be called castles. The Normans brought 
the art of castle building to England (though most castles 
were wood and earth at this time, not stone), but that 
occurred after the Conquest. The Normans also brought 
armored cavalry to Britain, ending the dominance of 
infantry in battle. 
Of the survivors of the Anglo-Saxon invasions, the 
Welsh maintained a fragmented independence until 
they were more or less conquered by the English in the 
late thirteenth century. The Cornish were conquered by 
Wessex about 870, and the Strathclyders were finally 
incorporated into Scotland about 1034.
In the far north, the Picts fought the Scottish invaders of 
Dalriada (who originated in Ireland) to a standstill. But 
the Picts were handicapped by their custom of inheri-
tance descending through the female line; and finally a 
Scottish king of Dalriada combined the two nations into 
the kingdom of Alba or Scotland. The Scots predominat-
ed culturally, though the majority of the population was 
Pictish. This kingdom absorbed part of Northumbria, 
Lothian, in the late tenth century.
For two centuries after 600 the Anglo-Saxons fought 
among themselves, with the Welsh and with the north-
erners, dividing into seven kingdoms known as the 
Heptarchy: Kent, Sussex, Essex, East Anglia, and the 
larger kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia, and Wessex, 
At first the kingdom of Kent, of Jutish and Frisian ori-
gins, held the upper hand, but soon the kingdoms of the 
Angles gained the leadership of the Anglo-Saxons just as 
the Viking raids began.
In each case, an individual king of one of the small king-
doms might dominate much of England, but the other 
areas often retained their own kings and might throw off 
foreign domination when the old Bretwalda died. 
 
At first the Vikings came to plunder, going home each 
autumn; but as organized resistance decreased they 
began to establish bases in England, and finally they 
settled permanently. The Vikings of Norway occupied 
the Hebrides and Orkneys in the far north, and continued 
down the west coast of Britain to settle in such diverse 
areas as Cumbria and parts of Wales. Many of the set-
tlers came by way of Ireland, where some Norwegians 
established the kingdom of Dublin. The more numerous 
Danes roamed along the east coast, occupying much of 
northern England as well as parts of continental Europe, 
especially Normandy. The Danish “Great Army,” prob-
ably commanded at one time by the sons of Ragnar 
Lodbrok (Ivar and Halfdan, the “Danish Brothers”), 
harried France and England for many years; they were 
stopped by the Saxons only after the army split up, some 
settling to the north.
At one point, nonetheless, Mercia was controlled by 
the Danes, and King Alfred the Great of Wessex was in 
hiding in the swamps of Somerset. But he managed to 
gather an army and drive back the Danes, obtaining after 
some years a treaty which divided England into Saxon 
and Danish areas. Alfred’s successors gradually recon-
quered the Danish parts of the country (the “Danelaw”), 
so that by 960 the king ruled most of England. But 
Danes continued to come, though in decreasing numbers. 
King Ethelred “the Unready” (actually “unraed,” mean-
ing “no counsel”) gradually lost control of the kingdom 
and could not withstand a great invasion by the Danish 
king Svein Forkbeard, whose son Cnut became undis-
puted king of England, Denmark, and Norway when 
Ethelred’s capable son Edmund Ironside died prema-
turely. However, Cnut’s son was succeeded by Ethelred’s 
second son, Edward the Confessor.
Edward had no heir; both earl Harold Godwinson, who 
though Edward’s subject probably wielded more power, 
and Duke William of Normandy, descendant of Vikings, 
claimed the throne. Harold II was crowned, but imme-
diately faced invasions from Harald Hardrada, king of 
Norway – a distant heir of Cnut – and from William. 
Harold II surprised and defeated Harald’s army and 
killed his rival, near York, but after a forced march the 
Saxons were beaten by the Normans near Hastings, 
where Harold was killed. Harold’s relatives continued a 
desultory resistance for some years, but essentially the 
Saxons accepted William’s claim to the throne after the 
deaths of his rivals. After a few abortive attempts by 
Svein Estrithson of Denmark, the Vikings came no more; 
William had more difficulty with Welsh, Scots, and 
French than with Scandinavians.
It was a near-run thing. The Saxons nearly won; if 
the wind had blown in the other direction, William’s 
delayed invasion would have landed before Harald’s and 
Harold’s undiminished army might have beaten William. 
But would he have beaten Harald as well?

Page 23
CHRONOLOGY
55, 54 BC	
Julius Caesar raids southern Britain.
43–47 AD 	
Romans conquer southern England and 	
	
 
Midlands.
49–61	
Romans subdue Wales.
60–61	
Boudicca’s revolt.
Romans take north, establish themselves in Scotland.
c. 85	
Roman garrison reduced to three legions.
122–130	
Hadrian’s Wall built on Solway-Tyne isthmus
Antonine Wall built on Glasgow-Edinburgh isthmus. 
3rd century	
Anglo-Saxon raids begin.
367–369	
Picts and Irish break through defenses to ravage fron	
	
tiers. 
Remainder of Roman garrison goes to Gaul to fight 	
	
German invaders.
c. 425 
Vortigern is ruler of a large part of southern Britain. 
c. 430 
Vortigern invites Saxons to settle.
c. 442	
Saxons attack British. Breakdown of Roman civiliza	
 
tion in Britain. Migrations to Brittany.
British (Arthur’s cavalry) defeat Anglo-	Saxons at 		
 
Battle of Mons Badonicus (site unknown).
Plague devastates Britain.
c. 550–600	
Anglo-Saxons attack again, drive British into Wales, 	
	
Cornwall, and the north.
Kingdom of Kent converted to Christianity. Remainder 	
	
of English kingdoms converted by 650.
c. 610–678 
Northumbrian king is usually Bretwalda (Oswiu 
	
645–670). 
731–799 
Mercian king is usually Bretwalda (Offa 757–796). 
Monastery of Lindisfarne sacked by first Viking raid. 
838, 851 
Wessex victories over Vikings.
Kenneth McAlpin of Dalriada unites Scots and Picts. 
Danish “Great Army” invades East Anglia, destroys 	
	
northern English kingdoms.
Great Army divides: Danes attack Wessex; Alfred the 	
	
Great becomes king of Wessex (d. 899).
871–876 
Mercia ruled by Danish protégé.
876–878	
Renewed war, Wessex nearly conquered.
Battle of Edington saves English.
Peace treaty divides England into English and Danish 	
	
halves (Danelaw).
892–896 
Further Viking attacks.
899–924	
Edward reconquers most of Danelaw.
Dubliners control kingdom of York.
924–939	
Athelstan of Wessex controls most of England.
Athelstan defeats Scots-Dubliners-Strathclyde coalition 	
	
at Brunanburh (site unknown).
Edmund of Wessex conquers Strathclyde, gives/leases 	
	
it to his Scottish ally/subordinate; Lothian similarly 	
	
treated late in tenth century. 
1013	
Ethelred deposed; King Svein Forkbeard of Denmark 	
	
conquers England, dies next year.
1016	
Ethelred dies, and his son Edmund Ironside soon after; 	
	
Svein’s son Cnut elected king of England. 
1042	
Cnut’s son Hardecnut dies without heir; Edward the 	
	
Confessor becomes king.
1066	
Edward dies without heir; Harold Godwinson succeeds 	
	
him. Harald the Hardrada of Norway and William 		
	
of Normandy invade England. Harold defeats and kills 	
	
Harald but is defeated and killed by William. William 	
	
becomes king.
1086 
A great Viking invasion fleet is dispersed or destroyed 
 
by storm – the last Viking effort.
Pronunciation: Brigantes (Bri-gan'-tase, “gan” sounds close to “gone”); 
Belgae (Bel'-ji).
Credits
Dedicated to Torben Mogensen, Jim Jordan, Stephen 
Braund, and all the players and GMs who have made 
Britannia live over the years.
Game Design and Development: Lewis E. Pulsipher, 
Ph.D.
Additional Development: Corey Konieczka and John 
Goodenough
Rules: Lewis E. Pulsipher, Ph.D.
Editing: James D. Torr
Graphic Design: Brian Schomburg
Game Board Art: Kurt Miller
Nation Art: Patrick McEvoy, Guy Gentry, Tomas 
Jedruszek, Ted Pendergraft 
Art Direction: John Goodenough
Production Manager: Darrell Hardy
Executive Developer: Greg Benage
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesting
This edition owes whatever improvements have been 
made to the many Britannia players around the 
world, especially the members of the Eurobrit Yahoo 
Group and authors of the World E-mail Britannia 
Championships, and the 2004 World Board Gaming 
Championships Britannia tournament. Without their 
enthusiasm, the designer would never have attempted 
this edition.
Contributors: Stephen Braund, Torben Mogensen.
Playtesters for this edition: Llew Bardecki, Nicholas 
Benedict, Simon Bullock, Tim Coburn, Thayne Conrad, 
Bill Crew, Caleb Diffell, Paul Doherty, Padraig Francis, 
John David Galt, Jaakko Kankaanpaa, Takuya Kato, 
Richard Jones, Jim Jordan, Duane Kristensen, Pekka 
Marjola, Ewan McNay, Christopher Morgan, Karsten 
Ockenfels, Scott Pfeiffer, Raffaele Porrini, Jim Pulsipher, 
David Rayner, Peter Riedlberger, Luke Taper, Andrew 
Tjader. Bob Tjader, Stephen Tjader, William Tjader, 
Scott Weber, D. Charles Williams, David Yoon, and 
many others at the World Boardgaming Championships 
and Eurobrit listserv. I apologize to anyone I have acci-
dentally left out.
Playtesting of Gibsons and Avalon Hill editions: Jim 
Adams, Eric Bracey, Martin Crim, Chris Hughes, Keith 
Ivey, Bob Lansdell, Fred Parham, Mundy Peale, Steve 
Raymond, Sue Pulsipher, Roger Heyworth (uncredited 
Developer, Gibsons), Adrienne Heyworth, David Abbott, 
Tony Gordon, Claire Grant, Richard Bairstow, Alan R. 
Moon, Mike Schloth, Rex Martin, and Craig Taylor, 
Bruce Shelley (AH editor), Mick Uhl (AH editor).
Index
2-player scenarios: 19-20
3-player game: 19
5-player game: 19
Angles, Brigante submission to: 17
armies: definition of, 3; placing, 8
Arthur: 15
Battles/Retreats Phase: 11-13
Boat movement: 8, 9
Bretwalda: 6, 18
Brigante submission to the Angles: 17
burhs: see Saxon burhs
cavalry: 3
chronology: 23
Cnut, as king: 18
Danish armies: removal in Round 14: 18
eliminating: 6
England: 2-3
forts: see Roman forts
game round: 6-7
historical notes: 21-22
holding: 4-5
King: 6, 18; Cnut as, 18; in Round 16, 18
infantry: 3
invaders: 9-10
invasion restrictions: 10
leaders: 13-14
limes: 15
Major Invasion: 10
Movement Phase: 8-10
Nation Cards: 3, 4-5
Nation List: 3
nation turn: 6
negotiations: 17
occupying: 5-6, keeping track of occupied areas, 17
Overpopulation Phase: 13
overrun: 9
Pict raiding: 10
point limits: 6
population points: 7-8
Population Track: 3, 7-8
Raider Withdrawal Phase: 13
Raiding: 10
reinforcements: Roman, 14; in Round 16, 18
retreats: 12-13
Roman legion withdrawal: 14
Roman roads: 14
Roman forts: 3, 14; in battle, 11; limes, 14; movement, 14-15
Romano-British: 15
Saxon burhs: 3, 17
scoring round: 4, 7
Scotland: 2
stacking limits: 9
straits: 8, 9
submission: 14-15, 17
Timeline: 7
units: definition of, 3; complete list of, 20
Wales: 2

Page 24
For tips on playing Britannia for the first time, see 
page 16. 
Stacking limits
Each nation (except the Romans) may normally have no 
more than 3 armies in a non-difficult terrain area, or 2 in 
a difficult terrain area. As an exception to this restriction, 
each nation may have a single overstack. This overstack 
consists of one group of an unlimited number in a non-
difficult terrain area or one group of up to 4 armies in a 
difficult terrain area (but not both). 
The Romans can have any number of armies in each 
non-difficult terrain area and up to 4 in each difficult ter-
rain area. Forts do not count toward stacking limits. The 
Romans do not have a single overstack.
Battle Summary
In combat, units are eliminated according to the 
following rules:
1. A normal army eliminates a normal enemy army on a 
roll of 5 or higher. 
2. A Roman or cavalry army eliminates a normal enemy 
army on a roll of 4 or higher.
3. Roman and cavalry armies are eliminated on a roll of 
6 or higher. 
4. Any defending army in a difficult terrain area is 
eliminated on a roll of 6 or higher. This rule takes 
precedence over rules 1 and 2. 
Any Roman armies in an area with a Roman fort must 
be eliminated by an attacker before the fort may be 
eliminated. Thus a die roll of 5 will not eliminate the 
fort unless any Roman armies present in that round are 
eliminated by rolls of 6. 
Bretwalda
Each nation has one “vote” for each English area it 
occupies. At the end of the Rounds 8, 9, and 10 nations 
cast their votes for which nation crowns the Bretwalda. 
A nation’s vote cannot be divided, nor can it abstain. If 
one nation gains a majority (that is, more than half) of 
the votes cast, then that nation claims the Bretwalda. 
That nation gains 4 victory points.
The King
At the end of Rounds 11, 12, 13, and 14, if any nation 
occupies twice as many areas in England as any other 
nation (minimum of 4), that nation claims Kingship of 
England. The King’s nation gains 8 victory points and 
an extra infantry unit, which is immediately placed 
on the board according to the placement rules for the 
Population Increase Phase. If no nation meets these 
criteria, there is no King. There is no determination of 
King at the end of Round 15.
Immediately prior to the Raider Withdrawal Phase of the 
Danish turn in Round 14, before the withdrawal of Cnut 
and his armies, if the Danes hold twice as many areas in 
England as any other nation, and the Cnut is alive, Cnut 
becomes King and the Danes gain 8 victory points. 
This is an exception to the normal kingship rules, and 
no additional army is awarded. Thus, there can be two 
Kings during Round 14.
In Round 16 the kingship is determined at the end of 
the turn by the usual rules, but only Harold, William, 
Harald Hardrada, and Svein Estrithson are eligible (if 
alive). If all but one of these leaders are dead, however, 
the surviving one automatically becomes King, unless 
some nation other than the ones mentioned above holds 
twice as many areas as the prospective King’s nation. In 
this case no one is King. 10 victory points are given for 
this end-game kingship.
Round XVI Reinforcements
Norwegians 
The Norwegians receive one additional reinforcing 
army, in the North Sea, for each area that they occupy. 
The Norwegians receive no special reinforcements if 
Harald Hardrada is not in play.
Normans
The Normans receive reinforcing armies in the English 
Channel according to the areas occupied by them at 
the end of Round 15: 1 for Essex, 1 for Wessex, 1 for 
Hwicce, and 1 for South Mercia. They gain 3 if Harold 
the Saxon is not in play at the end of the Norman nation 
turn in Round 15. All of these are infantry armies, but 
the Normans can choose to take cavalry armies at the 
rate of 1 cavalry army in place of 2 infantry armies. The 
Normans receive no special reinforcements if William 
is not in play. 
Saxons
The Saxons receive reinforcing armies according to the 
areas occupied by them at the end of Round 15: 1 for 
every 2 areas in England (round down) provided that 
Harold the Saxon is in an English area. These armies 
must be placed in English areas. The Saxons receive no 
special reinforcements if Harold is not in an English 
area.
These armies are placed on the board at the beginning of 
Round 16, not during the nation turns, and these armies 
are in addition to any armies these three nations receive 
during the Population Increase Phases of their nation 
turns.
QUICK REFERENCE
The nation has a Raiding turn this round.
The nation has a Major Invasion this round.
The nation has Boat movement this round.
An election for Bretwalda will be held at the 
end of this round (4 victory points).
A Kingship is possible at the end of this 
round (8 victory points in Rounds 11-14, 
10 victory points in Round 16).
The Hold symbol indicates that if the nation is 
the sole occupant of the listed areas at the end 
of the specified round(s), the nation will score 
the listed number of points. 
The Occupy symbol indicates that if the nation 
is the sole occupant of the listed areas at any 
time during the specified round(s), it will score 
the listed number of points.
The Eliminate symbol indicates that if the 
nation eliminates the named units during the 
specified round(s), it will score the listed number 
of points.
Symbols on the Timeline
Symbols on the Nation CARDS