Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 BROADSIDES & BORADING PARTIES
Pub: 	
Milton Bradley (1984)
Page 1: 	 Rules summary	
	
v1
Apr 2011
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 

A
B
C
A
B
C
Setup
Each player does the following:
Choose a large ship (the light brown ship is The 
Royal Isabella, the dark brown is The Seahawk) and 
place it on the side of the board to your left. Then 
choose a small ship and place it on the large black 
starting circle on your side of the board.
Take 10 cannons and place them on the deck 
sections of your ship where cannon ports appear 
along the hull (B3, B5, C3, C5, D3, D5, E3, E5, 
F3, and F5). 
Take 20 crewmembers of the same color as your 
small ship and place one on either side of each 
cannon. Remaining crewmembers can be placed on 
any section of the ship. Finally, take a Captain and 
place it on any section of the ship.
Take a handful of damage markers, 15 cards (3 
each of Remain in Place, Move Forward, Turn 
Starboard, Turn Port, and Damaged Mast and/or 
Hull), and a die (either the red or the white).
Broadsides
Chart Your Course
Choose any 3 plotting cards from your hand and 
place them facedown in the desired order on the 
squares on the board next to your large ship.
There are 4 types of plotting cards:
Remain in Place: Leave your ship where it is.
Move Forward: Move your ship forward to the dot 
directly in front of it.
Turn Starboard: Rotate your ship 45º in a clockwise 
direction (as shown by the compass on the card) 
and remain on your present dot.
Turn Port: Rotate your ship 45º in a counter-
clockwise direction (as shown by the compass on 
the card) and remain on your present dot.
Move Your Ships
Both players turn over their first plotting cards (in 
square 1). Then both players move their small ships 
as indicated on the card.
If you plot your ship onto an island, lose the rest of 
your plotted moves this round. Keep your ship in 
its present location until after your opponent has 
finished moving his ship. You may continue plotting 
and moving on the next round of play.
When both ships end a plotting movement on the 
same dot, there is a collision: move to the Boarding 
Parties part of the game.
Remove Cards
After resolving your 3 plotting cards, both players 
remove the cards from the board and return them 
to their hand.
Both players continue plotting their ships’ moves 
by playing 3 cards at a time. When the ships move 
within one dot of each other, the ships are within 
firing range. Cannon fire can occur after any of the 3 
cards have been turned over.
Cannon Fire
Which Cannons Can Fire
Each ship has 5 cannons per side: 2 forward, 1 
midship, and 2 aft.
Regardless of the position of the enemy ship, if 
one of the front diagonal lines intersects it, your 2 
forward cannons can fire. 
If the centre line intersects it, it is a broadside, 
and all 5 cannons on the side of your ship facing 
the enemy can fire. If one of the rear diagonal lines 
intersects it, your 2 aft cannons can fire.
If either the bow or the stern of your ship faces the 
enemy, you cannot fire.
Resolving Cannon Fire
You can only fire active cannons (those on board 
when the battle begins), and those on the side of 
the ship facing your enemy.
Cannon fire is simultaneous; if one of your cannons 
is hit, you will still be able to fire it on your turn.
Choose a player to roll first. For each cannon the 
player can fire, the player declares any deck section 
(A-H) on the opponent’s ship, then rolls a die to hit 
a target in that section. 
The number you roll indicates which target(s), if 
any, you cannon fire hits.
Roll	
Target Hit
Always a miss.
Hull damage.
All targets in the 3 position of the section.
Hits a mast if the section is A, C, G or H.
All targets in the 5 position of the section.
Always a miss.
If your Captain and/or additional crewmembers 
occupy the hit section, they are also targets.
Once the first player has resolved all of his cannon 
fire, the other player fires.
Effects of Cannon Fire
Cannon and Crew Loss: All cannons and 
crewmembers hit are immediately removed from 
the deck. Active cannons are also removed, but 
remember you can still roll for them when your turn 
to fire comes.
Mast Damage or Loss: A mast hit is removed from 
the ship. The main mast (C4) must be hit twice to 
be removed (remove the top part when it is first hit).
For each mast that is removed (the main mast must 
be hit twice), you must use a Damaged Mast and/or 
Hull card in place of one of your plotting cards on 
all subsequent turns.
If you are forced to play 3 Damaged Mast and/or 
Hull cards, you can still fire, but can’t move. You 
may wish to surrender the game.
Hull Damage: When one of your hull sections is 
hit, place a damage marker on the deck next to the 
section. When one of your hull sections on the same 
side is hit a second time, place a second damage 
marker on top of the first. A third hit to a hull 
section has no effect.
Two hits represent irreparable damage: you must 
use a Damaged Mast and/or Hull card in place of 
one of your plotting cards in the same way as for a 
removed mast. 
If you are forced to play 3 Damaged Mast and/or 
Hull cards due to hull damage, your ship sinks and 
you lose the game.
Loss of Your Captain: Remove your Captain from 
the ship. You may finish turning over your plotting 
cards for that round, but you cannot play any next 
round. You can, however, fire your cannons, if your 
opponent is in range.
At the end of that round, replace your Captain by 
switching the figure with any one of your surviving 
crewmembers. 
Boarding Parties
Positioning the ships
When both ships end a plotting movement on the 
same dot, there is a collision. Put the small ships, 
damage tokens, and all plotting and damage cards 
aside. Remove the masts from both large ships and 
move them onto the board, parallel to each other so 
that the deck areas are directly opposite. 
Placement of the large ships is determined by the 
direction from which the moved ship came into 
contact with the stationery ship.
One ship is considered as colliding into the other: 
one ship may have been stationery when the other 
collided into it, but if they collided by simultaneous 
movement onto the same dot, choose one to collide 
into the other (it doesn’t matter which).
If you are stationery and your opponent collides into 
your right side, place the ships as follows:
From direction A.
From direction B or C. 
If you are stationery and your opponent collides into 
your left side, place the ships as follows:
From direction A.
From direction B or C. 
If you collide into the other ship’s bow or stern, 
place the ships as follows:
You (black ship) collide with opponent’s 
(white ship) bow.
You (black ship) collide with opponent’s 
(white ship) stern.
Final Volley
Before boarding, exchange a last round of cannon 
fire. Only the cannons facing your opponent can fire. 
Mast and hull damage are ignored.
Each player then rolls a die: the highest roller may 
board first.
Boarding Your Opponent’s Ship
During your turn, move your crewmembers from deck 
section to deck section on your own ship, across to 
your opponent’s ship, or on your opponent’s ship.
You must make 3 movements on your turn (a 
combination of 1-3 crewmembers—including your 
Captain—moving 1-3 sections that add up to 3 total 
movements; moving one section is one movement).
Crewmembers may move diagonally on ships, but 
not when boarding, when they moust move to the 
directly opposite deck section. You may return to 
your own ship after boarding, if you wish.
Movement from a higher to a lower deck section, 
or vice versa, can only be made from a section 
adjacent to a ladder.
No more than 3 crewmembers (including your 
Captain) may occupy a deck section at a time.
Hand-to-hand combat
When any of your crewmembers move onto a section 
occupied by enemy crewmembers, you must engage 
them in hand-to-hand combat.
All combat is conducted after your 3 movements are 
finished. Crewmembers may not retreat from combat.
Each player rolls a die: the higher number 
eliminates an opposing crewmember. Each time 
you roll, if you have 1 more crewmember than your 
opponent in the section, you add +1 to your roll; if 
you have 2 more crewmembers, add +2.
If your Captain is in the combat, add +1 to your 
roll. He cannot be eliminated until all other 
crewmembers in that section have been eliminated.
The combat continues until all the crewmembers of 
one side have been eliminated.
Winning the Game
Broadsides Victory
You win if: Your opponent surrenders as a result of 
mast and/or hull damage; his ship sinks due to hull 
damage; or he loses all cannons, crewmembers, and 
his Captain by cannon fire.
BOARDING PARTIES Victory
You win if: Your opponent’s Captain is eliminated in 
hand-to-hand combat.