Round after round, choose
4 of 10 role cards. 
Shrewdly choose the brave 
or cowardly action; brave 
actions are riskier, but more 
profitable. 
The player with the most
victory points is the winner.
Game Summary
Players become witches, druids and gatherers, producing powerful
potions and delivering them by Broom Service throughout the magi-
cal realm. Round after round, enchanted rivals choose four of ten role 
cards. Each card has a brave and cowardly action.
The brave actions are most rewarding, but carry grave risk of being lost 
to opposing players. The cowardly actions are less profitable, but safer.
Which role cards will you secretly chose? Which have your rivals
chosen? Who will be brave, and who will be cowardly? 
The winner is the player with the most victory points after seven 
rounds.
Game Contents
2 punch boards:
For the basic game:
- 24 heavy clouds 
- 24 magic wands
- 1 game summary
For game variations:
- 15 amulets 
- 17 landscape tiles 
- 8 storm clouds
1 game board (double-sided)
60 potions
10 pawns 
 5 victory point markers
60 playing cards:
- 5 x 10 role cards
- 10 event cards
(Before the first game, remove all
the parts carefully from the punch 
boards.
Parts with violet borders are only
required for the variations,
not for basic game play.)
If you are reading these rules for the first time, ignore the bold text along the right side of the each page.
This text serves as a game summary to help you quickly familiarize yourself with the rules during subsequent game play.
Zooming brooms put potions in motion ...

Game Set-up (basic game)
The board is placed in the middle of the table face-up, 
i.e. with the two castles showing reddish banners
(note: the castles on the back side of the board show 
purple banners). 
Each player receives:
- 10 role cards of one color,
- 2 pawns of the same color, placed in the two regions with the castles,
- 1 victory point (VP) marker of the same color, placed on space 10 
of the VP track,
- 1 potion of each color, and 
- 1 or 2 wands: The oldest player is the starting player. The starting 
player and the player to the right (who will be the last player of the first 
turn) each receive one magic wand; all other players receive two wands.
(In a two-player game, each player receives 1 wand.)
The remaining potions and wands (from now on referred to as
“resources”) are placed in a general supply next to the game board.
The game summary is displayed
between the players. The front shows an 
overview of each round and turn, and the 
back summarizes the victory points
received at the end of the game.
The 24 heavy clouds (with white stars 
on the front) are shuffled and placed 
randomly, face-up, one cloud on each 
corresponding space on the board
(18 spaces on the front side of the 
board, 19 spaces on the back side of 
the board). 
The 10 event cards are shuffled.
7 cards are placed in a stack next to the 
board and the remaining 3 cards are
returned to the box without looking at 
them. The top event card in the pile is 
turned over. The event displayed applies
to the first of the seven rounds. 
Set up
Place the game board with
the front side up in the middle 
of the table.
Each player receives:
• 10 role cards
• 2 pawns (on the castles)
• 1 victory point marker (on 10)
• 1 potion per color
• 1 or 2 wands
Place remaining resources
in a general stock pile.
Display game summary.
Place heavy clouds randomly 
face-up on the corresponding 
spaces.
Create a shuffled draw pile 
with 7 of the 10 event cards; 
flip the top card face-up.

If there are fewer than 5 players: Shuffle the 10 role cards of an un-
used color and place them in a draw pile next to the event cards.
Depending on the number of players, reveal the following number
of “bewitched” role cards: 
2 players → 3 cards / 3 players → 2 cards / 4 players → 1 card 
(Note: The number of players + the number of “bewitched” role cards 
always = 5!) 
The remaining materials (landscape tiles, amulets, storm clouds) are 
required only for the game variations for advanced play (see page 9). 
 
Game Play
The game is played over seven rounds. At the beginning of each round, 
each player chooses 4 of their 10 role cards. Then the players compete 
for tricks, turn by turn, vying for the actions on the selected role cards. 
After at least 4 and no more than 10 turns, all chosen roles are played, 
the round ends, and the next round begins ...
Choosing Role Cards
At the beginning of each round, all players simultaneously choose 4 of 
their 10 role cards to use in this round (exception: 
event “More or Less”; see below). Each player 
holds their 4 selected cards and keeps them hidden 
from the other players. The remaining 6 role cards 
are placed face-down and are not used this round.
When all players have chosen their cards … 
Let the Magical Competition Begin!
The starting player for the turn begins by playing one of the four role 
cards, i.e. by placing it on the table and reading aloud either the upper 
text or the lower text on the card: “I am the brave forest witch and 
would like to fly to a neighboring forest ... (etc.)” or “I am a cowardly 
forest witch and ... (etc.)”.
	
If the player read the top, “brave” text (good, but risky!), 
the player claims the action. Since the action might still 
be “stolen” by a subsequent player, the player does not 
yet perform the action, but instead waits for the remain-
ing players to take their turns. 
If the player read the lower, “cowardly” text (less good, 
but safe!), the player immediately performs the action. 
(For more details on the different roles/actions,
see page 6.)
 
With fewer than 5 players, 
shuffle and place the 10 role 
cards of an unused color next 
to the event cards.
For 2, 3 or 4 players reveal
3, 2 or 1 card(s).
Game Play
Game consists of 7 rounds; 
4-10 turns per round.
First, all players choose
4 of their 10 role cards
simultaneously.
The starting player plays
one card and reads either
the “brave” or “cowardly” text.
If the player was “brave”,
the action cannot be performed 
until all subsequent players 
have played ...
If the player was “cowardly”, 
the player can immediately 
perform the action.

When the first player has finished, then the next player in clockwise 
order must “follow” the role card that was just played:
1) If the next player is not holding that role card, the player cannot
“follow” it, and so simply says, “next!” Turn continues to the next
player in clockwise order.
2) If the next player is holding that role card, the player must place it
on the table and execute either 2 a) or 2 b):
2 a) The player reads aloud the upper text (“I am the brave forest 
witch...”) and takes the brave action from the earlier brave player
(if there was such a player). The earlier brave player is now “out”, 
and gains nothing from that role in this round - neither the brave
nor the cowardly action.
However, the action is not yet safe for the new brave player either, since there are 
still players remaining ...
 
2 b) The player reads aloud the lower text (“I am a cowardly forest 
witch ...”) and executes that action right away.
The cowardly action is always weaker than the brave action, but it cannot be
stolen. Thus, the cowardly action can be taken by any number of players,
sequentially.
After all players in clockwise order have had a turn, the player who last 
chose the brave action now performs it.
(For more details on the different roles/ actions, see page 6 onwards.)
This player becomes the new starting player and chooses a remaining 
role card, places it face-up on the table, and reads either the upper or 
the lower text aloud (for example: “I am a cowardly weather fairy ...”). 
And so on ...
Example: Albert begins the round and plays the forest witch saying the words
“I am a cowardly forest witch ...” and places the card in front of him.
Then he moves one of his pawns to an adjacent forest.
Bonnie follows. Since she has also the forest witch in her hand, she must also place 
it in front of her. She says, “I am the brave forest witch ...”, and must now wait
and see what the next three players are doing.
Carla also has this role card in her hand and places it. She, too, is confident
and proclaims: “I am the brave forest witch ...” With that, Bonnie is “out”;
the forest witch is lost to her for this round.
Daniel and Emily follow. Neither of them have the forest witch, and each in turn 
says, “next!”
The turn is over. Carla is the (last) brave forest witch, so she puts one of her pawns 
in an adjacent forest, where it delivers a purple potion to a purple tower, and
she receives the victory points shown.
Carla begins the next turn by playing a new role card and proclaiming: “I am
a cowardly valley druid ...”. She immediately delivers a potion to a free tower
in the forest. Daniel then says, “next!” because he does not have the valley druid ... 
etc.
In turn order, the remaining 
players “follow” by ...
If they do not have this role 
card in their hand:
... saying “next!”
If they do have the role card, 
placing it on the table and:
... either reading the “brave” 
text aloud and waiting for
the rest of the round.
... or reading the “cowardly” 
text aloud and taking 
the appropriate action 
immediately.
After all players have had
a turn with this role, the last 
brave player performs the 
corresponding action.
Then this player plays a new 
role card, etc.

Other important rules
*	 You may select an action even if you cannot or do not want to per-
form it. Similarly, you can decide not to perform an action, even 
though you had the opportunity to do so (e.g. to retain resources for 
a different role or event).
For the witches, the following applies: A brave witch may move
to an adjacent territory without delivering a potion there. However, 
no witch may deliver a potion without moving. A witch may stay
and do nothing.
*	 The last brave player must start a new turn by playing a new role 
card, even if the prior action was not fully (or partially) executed.
*	 If all participating players play a role “cowardly,” the starting player 
of the prior turn also starts the next.
*	 If the starting player does not have any more role cards, the next 
player in clockwise rotation who still has cards becomes the next 
starting player.
*	 “Duty to follow!” Players must follow if they can; if a player plays 
a role card that has already been played in an earlier turn of the 
current round, the player must place the card without performing 
an action.
*	 The played role cards should be placed offset like 
a fan in front of each player so that everyone can 
see which role cards have already been played and 
how many cards each player has left. 
*	 The most important rule when placing role cards: 
Before it is your turn to place a card, it is forbidden to indicate 
whether or not you have the current role card. Always wait until it´s your 
turn before saying “next!” or “I am ...”.
*	 “Bewitched” roles are used in 2-4 player games. It is important 
to consider carefully these bewitched roles before selecting your role 
cards since anyone who places a bewitched role immediately 
loses three victory points (whether choosing the brave or the coward-
ly action, and whether or not the action is performed)!
Notes:
- Losing victory points (due to bewitched roles and/or certain event cards) may force 
players to move their victory point marker below 0.
- When the draw pile of bewitched role cards runs out, shuffle all 10 role cards
to create the new draw pile.
Actions may be selected that 
cannot be performed.
Actions do not need to be
performed.
The last brave player always 
plays the next role card. 
If all play cowardly, the star-
ting player from the prior 
turn plays the first card. 
If out of cards, the starting 
player is the next clockwise 
player with cards.
Players must follow
if they can!
Display cards like a fan to
remember what roles have 
been played.
Always wait your turn 
before talking!
Playing a “bewitched” role 
always costs 3 victory points!

End of a Round
A round ends when all players are out of cards. If only one player has 
cards left, this player plays alone until all cards have been played.
Finally, complete the current event if it is an end-of-round event card 
(see page 8 onwards: “The Events”).
	
Then, the next round begins:
*	 Place the next event card face-up over the previous one.
*	 For 2, 3 or 4 player games, place the next 3, 2 or 1 “bewitched” 
role(s) face-up over the previous one(s).
*	 Players again choose any 4 of their 10 role cards, setting aside the 
remaining 6 for the rest of this round.
*	 The starting player for the new role card is the last brave player from 
the previous round (or the last starting player if all were cowards in 
the last turn).
Game End
After seven rounds the game ends. 
Each player receives victory points for 
collected lightning (see back of
summary) and remaining resources:
Score 4 VP for each set of four different 
resources; score 2 VP for each set of 
three different resources.
Whoever has the most victory points 
is the winner. If tied, the tied player 
with the most resources wins. It there 
is still a tie, there are multiple winners.
the roles
Gatherers: Gatherers help players receive new resources. Resources 
are always placed visibly in front of players, so that they can be
counted by the other players at any time.
Depending on whether the role is played bravely or cowardly,
the number of resources taken from the supply is 3 or 1.
Note: The supply piles for the potions or magic wands 
are not meant to run out. Use place-holders if necessary. 
When all chosen role cards 
have been played (and the 
event card has been completed),
the round ends.
Prepare the next round: 
•	 turn over a new event card.
•	 turn over new “bewitched” 
 role(s) (for 2-4 players).
•	 Each player again chooses 
 4 of 10 role cards.
•	 The last brave player plays 
 the first new role card. 
Game End
The game ends after 
7 rounds. 
Score additional victory 
points for gathered 
lightning and remaining 
resources. 
The player with the most 
VP is the winner.
The player receives at the end of the game 
4 (u) + 2 (v) + 19 (w) = 25 victory points.
The 3 remaining resources (x) don´t earn VP.

Witches: Witches (both brave and cowardly) help players move their 
pawns around the board. Brave witches also deliver potions to
the towers, allowing players to earn victory points.
Druids: Druids (brave and cowardly) help players deliver potions to
the towers in order to earn victory points. Brave druids receive
an additional 3 victory points.
Delivering potions as a brave witch
*	 First, the player moves one pawn to an adjacent area where the 
landscape type corresponds to the played witch. This area may 
contain any number of other pawns, but cannot contain clouds 
(see below: “The Clouds”). 
*	 Then the player chooses one of their potions 
to deliver, in the new area, to an empty cir-
cular tower of the same color. If there is no 
matching empty tower, the player cannot 
deliver a potion.
*	 Finally, the player advances the victory point marker as many victory 
points as specified in the supplied tower. If there are one or two 
additional wands shown, the player takes the wand(s) from the gener-
al supply to keep. 
The tower is now “occupied” and can no longer receive potions.
Instead of a circular tower, a player can also deliver to a square tower 
(if available). In this case, the potion is not delivered to the tower, but 
to the general supply. The square towers can be 
delivered to multiple times; thus, they are always 
open - for the entire game! When delivering to
a square tower, a player also receives the victory 
points indicated by the tower. Each player may 
deliver only one potion per role to the square 
towers.
Delivering potions as a druid
For a druid (brave or cowardly) to deliver a potion, the same rules apply 
with the following exception: no pawn is moved, but at least one of
the player’s own pawns must already be in the corresponding area.
As a brave druid, a player receives 3 victory points more than the
supplied tower specifies. These additional 3 victory points can only be received if 
the player actually delivers the potion; just “being brave” is not enough! 
 
Potion delivering (witches):
•	Move pawn into adjacent 
area.
•	Place the potion on a tower 
of the same color.
•	Advance VP marker 
accordingly; add eventually 
1 or 2 wands.
Occupied towers can no 
longer receive potions.
Square towers always accept 
potions (these potions are 
placed in the general supply).
Potion delivering (druids):
•	If the player’s own pawn is 
already in the corresponding 
area, deliver a potion to 
a tower (or to the general 
supply).
•	Advance the victory points 
marker 3 points extra 
if “brave”.
If an arrow
points to the 
tower, the potion 
is placed on the 
tower, and the 
tower is “occupied”.
If an arrow
points away 
from the tower, 
the potion is 
delivered to the general 
supply. Square towers can 
be delivered to repeatedly.
The location of a tower depends on which areas touch its 
base. Thus, these 4 towers can receive potions from pawns 
within the following areas: The left purple tower - for-
est, hill, or prairie (multiple times, 4 VP each time); the 
central purple tower - hill or prairie (just once, 6 VP); the 
upper orange tower - hill only (just once, 5 VP); the lower 
purple tower - prairie only (just once, 3 VP + 1 wand)

The Clouds
No pawn may be moved onto or over water areas or land areas where 
there are one or more cloud tiles. The player must first try to charm 
away the clouds with the help of the weather fairy. Note, lightning on 
the “removed” (charmed away) clouds bring victory points at the end of 
the game (see back of game summary).
To charm away a cloud, the following conditions must be met:
*	 The player must place the weather fairy role card and have at least 
one pawn in an area adjacent to the cloud to be charmed away.
*	 The player must return to the general supply the number of wands 
that matches the number on the star on the cloud.
The player then keeps the “removed” cloud (visible to other players). 
As a brave weather fairy, the player also receives 3 additional victory 
points. The player only receives the additional 3 victory points if a cloud is charmed 
away; just “being brave” is not enough.
The Events
There are 10 different events. One event is revealed each round. 
Of the 10 events cards, one takes effect before selecting the roles, three 
take effect during the round, and six take effect at the end of the round. 
The cards are self-explanatory, clarifying details are below:
“More or Less?”
All players choose between 1-5 role cards (hidden from other players), 
then simultaneously reveal the number of selected role cards and gain
or lose the corresponding number of victory points. The round then 
plays as usual.
	
“Black Market” & “Black Distillery”
A player can decide whether to take the action or the event each time 
the player plays a role cowardly.
“Perilous Places”
Example: Both of Daniel’s pawns are in forests. He loses 2 victory 
points.
Emily’s pawns are in a prairie and a forest. She loses 4 victory points.
“Protected Places”
Example: Daniel’s pawns are on a hill and a mountain. He neither 
gains nor loses victory points.
Emily’s pawns are in a prairie and a forest: She moves forward
2 victory points.
 
The Clouds
To charm away a cloud:
•	Place weather fairy.
•	Have 1 pawn adjacent 
to the cloud.
•	Place the required number 
of wands back in the supply.
•	Take the cloud (keep it face-up).
•	Take + 3 victory points, if 
brave weather fairy.
The Events
... take effect either before, 
during, or at the end of a round.

“The Upper Hand” 
Each player announces how many resources they have to start. Then all 
players simultaneously take any number of their resources in a closed 
fist, and hold it over the table. The fists are opened at the same time, 
and the numbers of resources are compared.
	
“Empty Handed”
The resources are kept by the player.
“The Works!”
Each player may only deliver a maximum of one set of resources.
“Flock Together”
The player´s two pawns must be in the same type of area, but not
necessarily in the same area.
Game Variations
Try the following variations, even combining some together! 
Introduce the storm clouds (with light blue star on the front), the land-
scape tiles, and the amulets, as well as the back of the board, into play.
The Storm Clouds
... can be used on both sides of the board. At game start, mix the storm 
clouds with the heavy weather clouds. Then, as usual, place a random 
cloud tile on each of the corresponding areas. Return the remaining 
cloud tiles to the box.
Those who wish may use fewer heavy weather clouds, to increase the 
likelihood that storm clouds are placed on the board.
(2x) If this cloud is on the board, players receive 2
additional victory points when delivering a potion with 
a pawn adjacent to the cloud. If both of these clouds are 
adjacent to the pawn delivering the potion, players receive 4 additional 
victory points.
If Emily, for example, has a pawn in an area adjacent to these two clouds and as a 
brave druid delivers to a 2-VP tower + 1 wand, she receives 2 + 2 + 2 + 3 = 9 victory 
points + 1 wand.
 
This is the only storm cloud that always works while it lies on the 
board. All other storm clouds will work only once, at the moment they 
are charmed away. 
(2x) The player who charms away this cloud, may
immediately move either pawn to any adjacent area, 
just as if the player had placed the appropriate cowardly 
witch.
The Storm Clouds
... are mixed together with the 
heavy clouds at the beginning 
and then placed randomly, as 
usual.
This cloud brings + 2 victory 
points if the pawn delivering 
is in an adjacent area.
Move an own pawn to any 
adjacent area.

(1x) The player who charms away this cloud may
immediately deliver any potion, with either pawn, just as 
if the player had played the appropriate cowardly druid. 
(3x) The player who charms away this cloud, immedi-
ately takes the corresponding number of victory points 
if the player possesses at least as many potions of the 
matching color shown on the cloud, i.e. at least 3
orange, 4 green, or 4 purple potions (respectively). 
These potions are not returned to the supply, but are 
kept by the player!
If a player does not have the required minimum number of potions 
when charming away this cloud, the player receives the cloud tile,
but not the victory points.
The Mountain Tiles
and Amulets 
... can be used on the front side of the board and must be used on the 
back side. The five mountain tiles are shuffled at the beginning of the 
game, and then one tile is randomly placed face-up on the correspond-
ing space of each of the three mountain areas. Any towers covered lose 
their functions. The remaining two mountain tiles are returned to the 
box.
Each player places an amulet of their color next to each mountain tile.
When a player moves a pawn to one of these mountain areas, the player 
then – in any order – does the following:
*	 Claims their amulet from the mountain area and keeps it, visible to 
the other players. The amulets bring players victory points at the end 
of the game: one amulet = 4 victory points, two amulets = 9 victory 
points, all three amulets = 15 victory points (see back of game summary).
*	 Uses the complete function of the mountain tile (see below), without 
removing the tile. If a player doesn´t want to use the tile, it expires 
immediately for that player, i.e. it cannot be used in a later turn 
(evident by the fact that this player’s amulet has already been 
claimed)!
*	 if acting as the brave mountain witch, delivers a potion here, if desired.
The player takes one potion per color from the general sup-
ply. One of these 3 new potions could be delivered immediately, if acting 
as the brave mountain witch.
The player takes two magic wands from the general supply.
Deliver any potion.
Gain the corresponding 
number of victory points, 
if holding the required
potions.
The Mountain Tiles 
… can be used on the front 
side and must be used on the 
back side of the board.
Place three tiles randomly, 
face-up in the corresponding 
mountain spaces, along with 
one amulet per player.
Whoever moves to one of 
these mountain spaces:
... takes their amulet: 
at game end 1, 2 or 3 amulets 
bring 4, 9 or 15 VP.
... uses the mountain tile 
(but is not required to).
... delivers a potion, if acting 
as the brave mountain witch.
+ 1 potion per color
+ 2 magic wands

With either pawn, the player delivers any type of potion, as if 
using the appropriate cowardly druid. Note: delivering to a square 
tower is allowed.
The player may do up to two movements with one of their 
pawns, or one movement with each pawn, as if placing the 
appropriate cowardly witches.
The player may charm away any cloud tile adjacent to either 
pawn, as if placing the cowardly weather fairy.
The Forest Tiles 
... must be used when playing the back side of the board. The six tiles 
are shuffled at beginning of the game and then randomly placed face-up 
on each of the spaces provided in the four corresponding forest areas. 
The remaining two forest tiles are placed back in the box.
A player who moves a pawn to one of these forest areas takes the forest 
tile from the board and keeps it, face-up, visible to everyone.
In a subsequent turn, the player can use it once, and then discard it face-
down next to the board. A player may use a maximum of one tile per 
role card and one “+1 card” tile at the beginning of a round.
(2x) Any player who plays a role cowardly and uses one of 
these tiles is allowed to perform the brave action instead of 
the cowardly one. For the remaining rules, the player remains 
cowardly. Thus, the player neither usurps the current brave player nor 
becomes the starting player of the next role card.
During the event “Brave Heart”, the starting player of a role card cannot avoid the 
obligation to be “brave” by using this tile.
.
(2x) Any player who uses this tile at the beginning of a round 
may take one additional card to keep.
This tile can be used in the event “More or Less” even after all players 
have shown their hand size; the additional card is not taken into account 
when scoring victory points for this event. 
(2x) Any player who plays a role card cowardly and uses this 
tile takes 5 victory points instead of performing the action. 
If this tile is used during the events “Black Market” or “Black Distillery”, 
the player still gains only 5 victory points (and not another + 3 victory 
points or + any resource). 
1 potion delivery
2 pawn movements (by same 
or different pawns)
1 cloud charmed away
The Forest Tiles
... must be used on the back 
side of the board.
Place four random tiles face-
up in corresponding forests.
The player who moves to one 
of these forests first takes the 
tile there.
Play cowardly, but perform 
the brave action.
+ 1 card for your hand
+ 5 victory points instead
of cowardly action

The Hill Tiles
... must be used when playing the back side of the board. The six tiles 
are shuffled at beginning of the game, and then randomly placed
face-up on each of the spaces provided in the four corresponding hill 
areas. The remaining two hill tiles are placed back in the box.
	
(5x) Any player who moves a pawn to one of these hill areas 
ignites the “turbo broom” feature, immediately jetting this 
pawn to one of the two stone circles specified 
on the tile. In the new area, the player may 
deliver a potion, if playing as the brave hill witch.
Note: It is possible that the stone circle “B” is not accessible,
or that you can no longer leave that island after you arrive.
It is never possible to leave the island with the stone circle “D”.
(1x) In this area no “turbo broom” feature is ignited, but a 
player can deliver an orange potion to the supply for 7 victo-
ry points if playing the brave hill witch, just as if the tower 
was displayed on the board (see page 7). The same applies if 
any player delivers a potion here as the peak druid.
The Hill Tiles 
... must be used on the back 
side of the board. 
Place four random tiles face-
up on corresponding hills.
Move pawn immediately to 
one of the two specified stone 
circles (and deliver one potion, 
if playing as a brave hill witch).
Deliver an orange potion 
for 7 victory points (back to 
the supply).
233157
The authors and publisher thank the many play testers for their valuable 
efforts, in particular Peter Hofbauer, Wolfgang Lehner, Dennis Rappel, 
Harald Schatzl, Walter Schranz and Julian Steindorfer as well as the groups 
from Bad Aibling, Bödefeld, Grassau, Oberhof, Reutte, Siegsdorf and Vienna.
Do you have comments, critiques, or questions about this game? Write us:
Ravensburger USA, Inc. | 1 Puzzle Lane | Newton, NH 03858 
E-Mail: info@aleaspiele.de | www.aleaspiele.de 
© 2014 Andreas Pelikan & Alexander Pfister
© 2015 Ravensburger Spieleverlag