2-4 players
13 years +
60 minutes

Game setup
Each player should make sure that they have enough space in front of them. 
This play area is where they will place their cards and other components.
Each player chooses their color. (Here, the player uses the red pieces.)
That player then places the large seal in front of himself to show which color he is playing. 
He places his small seal in the round box above the guard house closest to his seat.
He takes the two pawns of his color. He places one of them on space 5 of the scoring track 
and the other on the town hall.
The player also takes the 3 Majority markers of his color, laying them gray side up in front of himself.
Once each player has taken and placed their colored pieces, each of them takes 1 worker of 
each of the 5 colors as well as 5 guilders and keeps them in his play area.
Finally, each player takes 2 Overview cards (one explaining the round, the other the actions). 
As a reminder for future games, players will also find an Overview card that shows the initial setup.
Players do not start the game with any cards. They will draw their first cards during the first round.
The player who most recently ate Belgian 
chocolate is the first player. 
He takes the Start player emblem 
and the 5 dice.
You are now 
ready to play!
The game board is placed in the middle of the table, easily accessible 
to all players.
The 50/100 points tokens are placed near the end 
of the scoring track on the game board. 
The octagonal Statue tokens are stacked sequentially on the game 
board. This means that the value 2 Statue 
token is placed at the bottom, then the value 
3 Statue, and so forth, with the value 
7 Statue token being placed on top of the pile.
1. Game board
7. Player setup
8. First player
	
1	 game board
	
4	 50/100 points tokens
	
6	 Statue tokens
	165	 cards
	 50	 workers
	 20	 1-guilder pieces
	 24	 3-guilder pieces
	 45	 Threat markers
	 40	 Canal tokens
	
4	 large Player emblems
	
4	 small Player emblems
	
8	 player pawns
	 12	 Majority markers
	
9	 Overview cards
	
1	 Start player banner
	
5	 dice
Reputation track
Town hall
Dice s
Guard house
Scoring track
Statue tokens
Components

There are 165 cards ; the number used varies according to the number of players.
First, shuffle all the cards together (regardless of their back) and divide these cards 
in 5 stacks, as equal as possible.
From these 5 stacks, take one stack per participating player. Shuffle these stacks together. (i.e. with 
3 players, 3 of these 5 stacks will be shuffled together.) Finally, the newly formed stack is now divided into 
2 approximately equal piles. These form the draw piles that are placed next to the gameboard, easily 
accessible to all players.
The remaining stacks (i.e. with 3 players, there will be 2 remaining stacks) are now piled up as the extra 
draw pile. This extra draw pile is only required at the end of the game.
2. Cards
The 50 workers are placed in a general supply, 
accessible to all players. (Player colors are not related to 
worker colors.)
3. Workers
Canal section
Dice spaces
Canal space
2 draw piles
Extra draw pile
The guilders (20 1-guilder 
pieces and 24 3-guilder pieces) 
form a reserve that is accessible 
to all players. Players can make 
change at any time; whenever a 
card or effect calls for the use of 
a 3-guilder piece, you may take 
3 1-guilder pieces instead.
4. Guilder
The 45 Threat markers form a supply that 
is available to all players.
5. Threat markers
The 40 Canal tokens form a 
supply that is available to all 
players.
6. Canal tokens
Ro
un
d p
ha
se
s
1. 
Draw cards 
Refill hand 
to 5 cards
2. 
Roll the dice 
Distribute Threat 
markers and advance 
1 reputation step
3. 
Play cards 
Play 1 card and activate 
1 or more people 
(4 cards per round)
4. 
Verify the 
3 majorities
Act
io
ns
Take 
2 workers
Take 1-6 guilders 
(amount shown on the die)
Discard 
1 Threat marker 
(get 1 each time)
Build 
1 Canal token 
(pay with guilders)
Build 1 house 
(pay with worker)
Recruit 1 person 
(pay with guilders)

Gameplay
A game takes place over several rounds. 
Each round, players will follow these 4 phases:
Phase 1: Draw cards – Used during phase 3.
Phase 2: Roll the dice – Distribute Threat markers and advance 1 reputation step.
Phase 3: Play cards and perform actions 
	
This is where the action happens!
Phase 4: Verify each of the 3 majorities and change the start player
Phase 1: Draw cards – Used during phase 3.
Players refill their hand at the beginning of each round.
The start player begins and may draw from either of the two piles. 
She takes the card into her hand without looking at it. She keeps 
drawing cards until she has 5 cards in hand. She decides from 
which pile to draw before drawing each card. Only once her hand 
is complete may she consult her cards.
In clockwise order, the other players do the same. 
 
When one of the draw piles is empty...
When one of the two draw piles runs out of cards, that pile is 
immediately replaced with the extra draw pile set aside at the 
beginning of the game. The players continue refilling their hand, as 
described above.
If the other pile runs out, split the remaining pile in half, creating 
2 roughly equal piles. Keep doing this so that players always have 
2 piles to draw from.
The round in which the extra draw pile enters play is the 
final round. After completing that round, the game ends and 
players proceed with the final scoring. 
Exception: Usually, a pile will run out during phase 1 of a turn (when 
you draw cards). However, some cards allow you to draw cards during 
phase 3. In those cases, the extra draw pile enters play immediately, 
and the following round will be the last and final round.
Phase 2: Roll the dice – Distribute Threat markers and advance 1 step.
The start player rolls the 5 dice. He 
then places the dice on the board, in the 
appropriate spaces. Ideally, place the dice 
in ascending order to let players easily see 
which values are present.
Once the dice are rolled, the following two steps are done in the 
listed order:
Example: The player rolls the dice and places 
them in ascending order on the game board.
A player draws 
card from either of 
the two piles until 
she has 5 cards in 
hand.
When one of the two piles is 
empty, it is immediately replaced 
with the extra draw pile, 
signaling the final round.

1. Distribute Threat markers
For each die that shows a 5 
or a 6, each player (without 
exception) receives 1 Threat 
marker of those colors (the color of the dice showing a 5 or a 6).
Players place their Threat markers face up in front of themselves so 
that they may be easily seen by the other players.
Whenever a player receives a third Threat marker of a single color, 
that player suffers the corresponding penalty. The various penalties 
are described on the last page of this rulebook.
2. Advance 1 reputation step
Each player now has the opportunity 
of advancing 1 step on the 
reputation track. The price to do so 
is determined by the dice. The price to 
pay, in guilders, is equal to the total 
sum of every die showing a 1 or a 2.
The start player goes first. If he wishes to advance, he pays the sum 
in guilders to the bank, after which he advances his pawn by one 
step. A player may not advance without paying.
Note: The first time a player advances, he will take his pawn from the 
town hall and put it on step 1 of the reputation track.
In clockwise order, the other players do the same.
If a player does not have enough guilders to advance, then he 
cannot do so. Similarly, a player that has enough guilders to 
advance but does not wish to pay does not move.
Each round, a player may only advance by 1 step on the 
reputation track.
If no dice show a 1 and/or a 2, then it is not possible to advance 
during that round.
Note: Dice showing a value of 3 or 4 have no special effect during this phase. 
 
 
 
Phase 3: Play cards and perform actions.
	
This is where the action happens!
General rules for this phase:
• Each player begins this phase with 5 cards in hand.
• On their turn, each player, one after the other, plays exactly 1 card from their 
hand to do 1 of the 6 possible actions.
• This continues until every player has played 4 cards from their hand, and 
thus performed 4 actions, at which point this phase ends. (Each action may 
be performed more than once if the player so desires.)
• Then this phase ends.
Example: The current 
roll shows a red 5 and 
a yellow 6.
Each player (including 
the start player) 
receives one red Threat 
marker and one yellow 
Threat marker.
Example: The current 
roll shows a purple 1 and 
a blue 2.
This round, advancing 1 step 
on the reputation track costs 
3 guilders.
Example: Red wants to go up 1 reputation 
step. He pays 3 guilders and advances his 
pawn one step in front of the town hall.

The start player begins by playing 1 card from her hand. 
With the played card, she performs 1 of the following 6 actions:
	
I.	 Take 2 workers
	
II.	 Take 1-6 guilders
	
III.	 Discard 1 Threat marker
	
IV.	 Build 1 Canal token
	
V.	 Build 1 house
	
VI.	 Recruit 1 person
Once the start player has played 1 card and performed 1 action, the following player, in clockwise order, plays 1 card 
and performs 1 action. This continues until each player has played 4 cards from their hand and has thus performed 
4 actions.
Then, this phase ends. Usually, players will each have 1 card in hand at that point.
Note: Any of the 6 actions may be performed with any card. As such, there are no cards that allow you to perform 
a specific action.
Here is a closer look at a card:
Anatomy of a card
Card color 
There are 5 different card colors (blue, brown, red, purple, 
and yellow). The front and back of each card shows its color.
Actions 
The first 5 actions are depicted on the banner found on the 
right-hand side of each card. With the exception of the color, 
these 5 actions are always the same.
Person 
The person section of each card shows a different character. 
Each person has a different price, special effect, and group. You 
will find more information on the person section on page 8.
The actions are:
I. Take 2 workers
Play 1 card into the discard pile to take 
2 workers of the played color. Place these 
workers in your play area, visible to all players.
Workers are not limited by the components. 
Should you run out of a worker color, use replacement pieces you 
deem appropriate.
II. Take 1–6 guilders
Play 1 card into the discard pile to take a number of 
guilders from the bank equal to the value shown 
on the die of the color of the played card. Place 
your guilders in your play area.
Guilders are not limited by the components. Players can make 
change at any time.
 Card color (purple) 
	
	
	
 Back 
 Front
	 I.	Take 
	
	2 workers
	II.	Take guilders
	III.	Discard 
	
	1 Threat marker
	IV.	Build 
	
	1 Canal token
	 V.	Build 1 house
Person
Example: The player plays 1 yellow 
card and takes 6 guilders, which 
corresponds to the number shown 
on the yellow 
die.
Troublemaker
Each other player must 
immediately return 1 of 
their Canal tokens 
 into 
the supply.
Example: The player plays 1 red 
card and takes 2 red workers.
Queen
Once per round, get 1 .

III. Discard 1 Threat marker and get 1 point
Play 1 card into the discard pile to 
discard 1 Threat marker of the 
color of the played card back 
into the supply. Each Threat marker 
discard this way gets the player 1 point; advance your pawn 1 space 
on the scoring track to show this.
Note: Every time a player discards 1 Threat marker, she gets 
1 point. This also applies when discarding Threat markers with the 
help of a person (see the Jailer, page 1 of the rules supplement).
IV. Build 1 Canal token
Each player has a guard house that bears their small seal. From 
these guard houses, one canal is heading left and another is 
heading right. Each canal section is divided into 5 canal spaces. This 
means that each player has 2 canal sections, each with 5 spaces, for 
a total of 10 canal spaces. These canals may only be built by their 
owner (the one whose seal is on the guard house).
A player’s first built canal will always be one of the 2 sections next 
to her seal. On subsequent canal building actions, the player may 
continue in the direction she started, or not. A player will always 
have 2 options when building a canal, unless a section is completed.
To build a canal, you must first play 1 card matching the color of 
the canal space you wish to build on. Furthermore, you must 
pay the number of guilders shown on that space. 
After doing this, you place 1 Canal token on that space.
If a player reaches space 3 of a section, that player scores 3 points at 
game end. When a player completes one of her two canal sections, 
she takes the topmost Statue token and will score the printed 
points at game end. Each player may earn a maximum of 2 statues.
V. Build 1 house
Play 1 card face-down in front of yourself to show 
that you have built a house. To build a house, you must 
pay 1 worker of the same color as the house you 
wish to build. Return the paid worker to the supply. 
Each house scores its owner 1 point at the game end and 
can accomodate one person (see next action).
VI. Recruit 1 person
Play 1 card onto one of your empty houses; place the card 
in such a way that the color of the house remains visible. You 
must pay the price of the card, shown in the top left corner. 
Paid guilders are returned to the bank.
Each house can accomodate exactly 1 person. 
The person may be of a different color than the house. 
Example: The player plays 1 brown 
card into the discard. She returns 
1 brown Threat marker and scores 
Example: The player plays 1 blue card and pays 
1 guilder to place 1 Canal token on the blue 
space adjacent to his seal.
Example: The player plays 
1 purple card face-down in 
front of herself. She returns 
one purple worker to be able 
to build that house.
Acrobat
Build a Canal token without 
playing a card, however you 
must pay double the price.
Mathematician
Immediately draw 4 cards 
and then discard 4 cards.
Guard house of the red player
Example: The player 
already had a house in front 
of herself. She decides to 
play the Prince onto that 
house. For that, she must 
pay 9 guilders to the bank.
The player 
will get 
3 points at 
the end of 
the game.
The player takes the topmost Statue token and 
will score those points at the end of the game.

You may activate your people to make use of various advantages. 
Before explaining how a Person card is activated, let’s take a closer look at the person section of a card.
Person section of a card
Price: The top-left section of a card shows the price, in 
guilders, that must be paid to recruit this person.
Points: The small number located below the price 
indicates the number of points that that person is worth 
at game end if in a player’s play area. 
(The score value is always one third of the price.)
Activation icon: This icon, located to the left of the 
person’s portrait, indicates when and how that person 
is activated. You will find more information on these 
below and on the following page.
Name and benefit: Under the 
activation icon, you will find that 
person’s name, and the benefit you 
get when activating that person.
Group: Each person belongs to one of the 
11 different groups of people. Some cards refer 
to the group. When that is the case, only those 
cards belonging to that group are considered. 
Activating a person
On your turn, you may activate one or more of your people. 
People with the “arrow” icon 
 are activated immediately after being played. 
People with any of the five “worker” icons 
 or the “infinity loop” icon 
 
may each be activated during your turn. 
Finally, people with the “laurel” icon 
 are only activated during the final scoring. 
Activating a person allows you to benefit from the text written on that card.
Here are the 4 symbols described in more detail:
People with the “arrow” icon have a one-use effect that 
is activated immediately after being played. These people 
may not be activated again during the game, unless they 
are returned to a player’s hand and played again. 
People with the “worker” icon can be 
activated once per round (i.e. once per 
phase 3). 
You must pay a worker of the depicted 
color (which is not necessarily the color of the person). That worker 
is returned to the supply. You then benefit from the text shown 
on the card.
To show that a person has been activated during a round, rotate 
that person by 90°.
Recruiting the Prince 
costs 9 guilders.
The Prince awards 
3 points at game end.
A yellow worker must 
be paid to activate 
the Prince’s benefit.
When activated, 
the player benefits 
from this text effect.
The Prince is part of 
the Noble group.
Example: The player 
plays the Alchemist 
and immediately takes 
6 guilders from the bank.
Example: The player activates 
the Servant by playing a red 
worker. The Servant allows a 
player to draw 1 card 
from a pile.
P i
The 11 different groups of people are:
 Artist	
	
	
Craftsman
Merchant	 	
Protector	 	
Alchemist
Immediately take .
Servant
Draw 1 card.
Alchemist
Immediately take .
Servant
Draw 1 card.

There are 3 types of people with the “infinity loop” icon.
The first type can be activated once per round, 
much like the cards with a “worker” icon. The text on 
these cards will usually say “once per round” in the description 
of the effect. 
Activating these people does not cost anything. 
To show that such a person has been activated, rotate that person 
by 90° on its side.
The second type improves an action for that player. 
People of this type are used automatically every time (even more 
than once in a single round) when the corresponding action is 
taken. They do not cost anything extra to use.
The third type is very similar to the second type: these people give 
players an advantage when different situations occur (i.e. when 
“drawing cards” or “advancing”). 
People of this type are activated automatically whenever the 
corresponding situation occurs during the game. (As such, if the 
situation occurs more than once during a single round, that 
person will be activated the same number of times.)
Note: Since their use is not limited, do not rotate by 90° people of the 
second and third type. 
People with the “laurel” icon are used during the final 
scoring. It is at that moment, and only then, that they 
are automatically activated. The player receives the 
number of points indicated on the card. 
General information:
• Cards that need to be activated (with the “worker” icon 
 or the “infinity loop” icon 
) 
can be used before or after playing a card. The player can activate some cards before and some after. 
It is also possible to activate a person that was just recruited (with the “worker” icon 
 or 
the “infinity loop” icon 
) immediately after placing that card into play.
• Activating a person can alter the normal rules.
Example for activating a person that alters the normal rules: 
The player activates the Coachman by returning a yellow worker to the supply.
The Coachman allows the player to immediately play another card from his hand, 
letting him perform another action during the same turn (which is 
against the normal rules). 
This means that the player has one fewer card in hand. He will end the round without 
any cards in hand (whereas players usually end their turn with 1 card in hand). At the 
beginning of the next round, he will refill his hand to 5 cards as usual.
Note: Most cards are self-explanatory. However, there are some cards and combinations that may warrant further 
explanations. These are detailed in the rules supplement.
Example for the second type: 
Whenever the player with the 
Lawyer does the 
“take 2 workers” 
action, she takes 
3 workers instead.
Example: The Bishop is 
automatically used 
during the final 
scoring. For every 
2 workers in his play 
area, the player gets 
Example for the first type: 
Activating the 
Accountant allows 
the player to take 
2 guilders.
Lawyer
Whenever you choose to take 
workers as an action, take 
3 workers (instead of 2).
Merchant
Accountant
Once per round, take .
Accountant
Once per round, take .
Lawyer
Whenever you choose to take 
workers as an action, take 
3 workers (instead of 2).
Coachman
Play a card from your hand 
and perform an action with 
that card.
Example for the third type: 
The player with the Inventor 
draws up to 6 cards during 
phase 1. This gives 
him 1 extra card 
to choose from.
Inventor
During phase 1, you may 
refill your hand up to 
6 cards.
Inventor
During phase 1, you may 
refill your hand up to 
6 cards.
Coachman
Play a card from your hand 
and perform an action with 
that card.

Phase 4: Verify the 3 majorities
At this point of a round, players verify whether or not one of them 
has a majority and can therefore flip their corresponding Majority 
marker colored-side up. The following elements are verified in order.
If a single player occupies the most advanced position on the 
reputation track (on a higher number than any other player), that 
player may flip her Reputation Majority marker colored-side up. 
If a player has more people in her play area than any other player, 
she may flip her People Majority marker colored-side up. The 
number of people is compared with every other player individually. 
Therefore, a player need not have more people than every other 
player combined, simply more people than each other player.
If a player, counting both of her canal sections, has built more 
Canal tokens than any other player, she may flip her Canal 
Majority marker colored-side up. 
These rules apply to all 3 majorities:
• A player must have a clear majority to be able to flip her 
marker colored-side up.
• Once flipped, a marker will stay on its colored-side for the 
remainder of the game. As such, a flipped marker indicates 
that the player once had, at some point during the game, the 
majority in that area.
• If a player passes a majority holder, then that player will also 
be able to flip the corresponding Majority marker at the end of 
the round. This means that at the end of the game, more than 
one player can score the Majority marker of a given section. 
Change the start player
After verifying the 3 majorities, players straighten the cards they 
rotated (if any), the Start player banner is passed to the next player 
in clockwise order and a new round begins.
Game end and final scoring
The game ends at the end of the round in which one of the piles 
ran out of cards. (Exception: see page 4.)
Each player then scores points for:
The player gets points for each person in 
his play area.
 and change the start player
Example: Blue has 6 people in his play area, 
Yellow has 5 and Red and Green both have 
4 people. Blue gets to flip his 
People Majority marker 
colored-side up.
Example: Red is alone in 
front of the other players 
on the reputation track. 
He flips his Reputation 
Majority marker colored-
side up.
Example: Red and 
Yellow both share the 
first position on the 
reputation track. No 
player is allowed to 
flip their Reputation 
Majority marker this turn.
Example: Green built a total of 7 Canal 
tokens, Red 6, Green 2 and Blue has none. 
Green gets to flip her Canal Majority marker 
colored-side up.
The Prince gives its owner 
3 points.

Houses
For each house that a player has built, he gets 1 point. Whether 
or not the house is occupied has no impact on the scoring.
Benefits (from people)
For each person with a “laurel” icon, its owner gets the number of 
points indicated on that card.
Majority markers
Each Majority marker that a player was able to flip colored-side up 
is worth 4 points.
Each 3rd canal (space 3 of a section) a player built in his sections 
gives him 3 points. Each collected statue also gives its owner the 
number of points illustrated on the statue.
Finally, players score the number of points indicated on the step 
they have reached on the reputation track.
The players move their pawn around the scoring track to note their score. 
When a player has over 50 points, he takes a 50/100 points token and continues moving his pawn around the track. 
If a player ever has more than 100 points, he flips his token to indicate his score. 
The player with the most points is the winner. In case of a tie, the tied player with the most guilders is the 
winner. If this does not resolve the tie, the tied players share the victory.
Example of a final scoring: The player has the following cards in her play area:
• For her people she scores, 3 + 1 + 2 + 0 + 2 = 8 points.
• She scores 1 point for each of the 6 houses that she built = 6 points.
• The Mayor shows a “laurel” icon, allowing the player to score 2 points per Bureaucrat 
in her play area. She has the following people belonging to the Bureaucrat group: 
the Mayor and the Councilman, giving her 2 x 2 points = 4 points.
• She scores 4 points per Majority marker on its colored side. She was able to get the 
majority in people and reputation during the game (2 x 4 points) = 8 points.
• She built one Canal token on a 3rd space = 3 points.
• Her pawn is on the 6th step of the reputation track = 7 points.
The player’s final score is 36 points.
The player scores 
3 points for his Canal 
token built on space 3 
and 7 points for the 
statue.
Each house is worth 
The Bishop is worth 1 point 
for every 2 workers in 
its owner’s play area.
= 4 points
Mayor
At the end of the game, 
for each 
 person in 
your play area, get 2 . 
Councilman
For each yellow house in 
your play area, take .
Vicar
For each 
, get 1 .
Powderman
Once per round, if the brown 
die shows a 
 or a 
 , 
take one 
.
Beggar
Every other player must 
immediately give you 
2 workers (or as many as 
possible up to this amount).
Mayor
At the end of the game, 
for each 
 person in 
your play area, get 2 . 
Green scores 7 points for 
reaching that step on the 
reputation track.

Threat events – What happens when a circle is complete...
Whenever a player receives a 3rd Threat marker of a single color in his play area, 
this completes a circle and that player must suffer the damage effect (penalty). 
Each color has its own penalty. 
 
Flood: 
You must return all of your workers to the supply.
Plague: 
You must discard one person of your choice from 
your play area (not your hand).
Raid: 
You must return all of your guilders to the bank.
Fire: 
Either: Discard one of your built houses, 
or discard one of your built Canal tokens.
If you have neither, you do not lose anything.
Note: If you discard a house that has a person in it, take that person back into 
your hand. 
Note: If you return the last Canal token of a completed section, you do not 
return the statue. However, you will not get another statue if you complete that canal section again. 
Note: There cannot be any gaps in a canal section. 
Intrigue: 
You lose 3 points. 
A player’s score cannot be lowered below 0.
After resolving the damage, return all 3 Threat markers of that color to the supply. This means that the next marker 
you receive of that color will be your “first”.
Important: Players do not score any points when returning Threat markers after suffering the damage.
Note: It is possible for a player to suffer multiple penalties in the same turn. In such an unlucky turn of events, the 
player decides in which order the penalties are applied.
Note: If there are not enough Threat markers in the supply, distribute the markers in player order and immediately 
apply any triggered penalties, thus refreshing the supply and allowing every player to get a marker.
Exampe: After rolling the dice, there is a red 5 and a yellow 6. The player already has two 
Threat markers of those colors in front of himself. This means that the third marker 
causes some damage.
The fire (red) means that the player must discard one of his built houses 
or Canal tokens. Since he has not built any Canal tokens, he discards 1 house.
The raid (yellow) means that the player must lose all his guilders. 
He returns the guilders he has to the bank.
Finally, he returns all of his yellow and red Threat markers to the supply. 
He should be safe from these threats for a while...
Beggar
Every other player must 
immediately give you 
2 workers (or as many as 
possible up to this amount).
© 2013 Hans im Glück Verlags-GmbH 
English version by: 
© 2013 Z-Man Games, Inc. 
31, rue des Coopératives, Rigaud 
Québec, Canada, J0P 1P0 
For questions, comments and requests: 
www.zmangames.com info@zmangames.com
Designer: Stefan Feld 
Illustration: Michael Menzel 
Special thanks: The Gathering of 
Friends 2013 attendees. 
Thanks to all of you for 
your comments and suggestions!