B
russels, 1893: Victor Horta 
builds Autrique House and Tassel 
House, recognized as the first “Art Nouveau” 
buildings, where the fluidity of spaces echoes 
curvilinear botanical forms, incorporating 
ironwork, mosaics, frescoes, and stained 
glass windows. The same year, Paul 
Hankar erects his own house. The 
Belgian capital became the birthplace of 
this innovative movement that would make 
an impression on all of Europe, and impact 
the greatest architects of the Belle Epoque.
CONTENTS
• 5 personal Architect boards in the 
player colors
• 26 Public Figure cards
• 25 Bonus cards
• 12 Stock 
Exchange cards
• 76 coins, each worth one 
Belgian Franc (BF), and 
12 five-BF coins
• this rulebook
• 1 Bracket tile
• 1 Workshop cursor
• 6 Compass tiles, and 2 
“needles” for the compass
• 1 Manneken Pis pawn 
(first player)
• 30 Building tiles in the player colors
(6 per color)
• 20 discs in the player colors
(4 per color)
• 35 Assistant pawns in the player 
colors (7 per color)
• 30 Noble Materials 
cubes (10 wood, 10 iron, and 10 stone) 
and 15 white Joker Materials cubes
• 1 Brussels gameboard
• 5 Action strips and 1 
Bonus strip that will 
form the Art Nouveau 
board
• 30 Works of Art tiles in five 
colors: blue, pink, yellow, green, and 
black
• 5 Exhibition turn-counting tiles
 
 
 

SETUP
See adjustments for a 2-player game at the end of rules. 
1 Randomly assemble the 5 Action strips and place them 
above the Bonus strip to form the Art Nouveau board. Place 
the Art Nouveau board to the right of the Brussels board.
Important: For your first few games, do not use the side of 
the strips with the 
 symbol. These faces are reserved for 
experienced architects.
2 Each player takes his personal Architect board and 
and the Building tiles corresponding to the color he 
chooses to play. He places the 6 Building tiles on the spaces 
provided on his Architect board.
3 Each player receives 4 discs and 7 Assistant pawns in 
his color. He places 5 Assistant pawns near his personal 
board and 2 on the Courthouse space of the Brussels board.
4 Each player places a disc of his color: 
a. On the first shield of the City Hall track,
b. On the first Coat of Arms space on the Royal Palace track,
c. On the first space of the Architect track on his personal 
board,
d. On space 0 of the scoring track. This disc tracks the 
victory points (VP) he earns over the course of the game.
5 Each player receives a Public Figure card that can 
earn him 5 BF (Georges Brugmann), and places it near 
his personal board. With fewer than 5 players, the unused 
Georges Brugmann cards are returned to the box.
6 Sort the turn-counting Exhibition tiles by year 
(1893–1910) and place them face-down on the space 
provided on the board. Turn over the first card to show 
the exhibition poster.
7 Place the Workshop cursor at the center of the 
“workshop” on the Brussels board.
8 Shuffle the Public Figure cards and place one face-up 
on each of the four spaces on the right in the Royal 
Theater, on the Brussels board. The remaining cards form 
a deck that goes in the Royal Theater space on the left.
4a
4b
4d
OVERVIEW AND GOAL OF THE GAME
In Bruxelles 1893, you represent one of the famous 
architects who established the reputation of Art 
Nouveau in the Belgian capital. Your assistants 
help you perform actions such as constructing Art 
Nouveau buildings, or creating the works of art 
that decorate these beautiful homes. Constructing 
buildings allows you to fund your most beautiful 
masterpiece, shown on your personal board. It is also 
possible to develop your reputation as an architect, 
increase your influence at the Royal Palace or City 
Hall, and even benefit from Public Figures that you 
meet during your theater outings. The architect who 
garners the most fame in the form of victory points 
(VP) wins the game! 
9 Shuffle the Stock Exchange cards to form a deck, and 
place it on the Stock Exchange space on the board.
10 Separate the color Work of Art tiles and the black 
Work of Art tiles. After shuffling them, place the color 
Works of Art in a face-down stack next to the gameboard. 
Place the black Works of Art in another stack. Each player 
starts the game with a color Work of Art drawn at random 
and placed near his personnal board, face-up.

 
 
 
 
!
"
"
"

!
"
"


4c
CONCEPT OF THE GAME
A game of Bruxelles 1893 is played over five rounds. At the 
beginning of a round, the first player begins by defining the 
available area of the Art Nouveau board. Then the players 
take turns choosing an action on one of the two game boards: 
the Art Nouveau board or the Brussels board. Taking an 
action on the Art Nouveau board requires playing an Assistant 
pawn and placing a bid in Belgian francs (BF), which allows 
participation in an auction. At the end of 
each round, the player who bid the most money in a column 
wins this column’s auction and its Bonus card. The actions 
of the Brussels board, on the other hand, are free, but are not 
looked upon kindly by the Justice. Thus, at the end of the 
round, the player who played the most Assistant pawns on this 
board loses one, who must explain himself at the Courthouse.
11 Position the 2 needles of the 
compass as shown in the illustration. 
Randomly place the 6 compass tiles on 
spaces provided around the compass. 
Note: For your first game, attach the 
two needles to the board with the little 
plastic rivet.
12 Shuffle the 25 Bonus cards, form a deck, and place it 
near the gameboard. Place one card face-up on each of 
the spaces of the Bonus strip.
13 Choose a first player, who receives the Manneken Pis 
pawn and 5 BF. The players sitting to his left receive 6 BF, 
7 BF, 8 BF, and 9 BF, respectively.
14 The remaining money and materials cubes form a 
general supply near the gameboard.
Flat rivet
Rounded 
rivet
Brussels
Board

HOW TO PLAY
The game is played over 5 rounds represented by the 5 Exhibition tiles. Each round comprises four phases:
the Stock Exchange phase, the Action phase, the Resolution of the Turn phase, and End of Turn phase.
The first player reveals the top Stock Exchange 
card of the deck and places it face-up atop 
the deck. The information on this card will 
determin the available play area of the Art 
Nouveau board for the coming round.
Each line of the Stock Exchange card corres-
ponds to a different number of players, indicated by 
these icons. Read only the line that corresponds to the 
number of players participating in the game.
On the Art Nouveau board, there are shields for 
the City of Brussels at the intersections of the 25 
action spaces. These shields are organized in rows and 
columns numbered from 1 to 4.
Each line of the Stock Exchange card contains 
2 pairs of numbers. Each pair of numbers 
defines a shield on the board (the first number 
designates the row; the second, the column). 
The first player must choose a shield from the 
two proposed.
Note: To help you better visualize the two shields, you can 
place white cubes on them temporarily.
DETERMINING THE PLAY AREA ON THE ART NOUVEAU BOARD
Example: The first player must choose between the 
shield at 1-1, and the one at 4-4. He chooses the 
shield at 1-1.
By tracing a horizontal line and a vertical line 
passing through the selected shield, the Art 
Nouveau board is divided into 4 distinct areas.
The first player places the Bracket tile on the shield he 
has chosen. The bracket should be oriented to designate 
the largest of the 4 areas (the largest area is the one that 
contains the most Action spaces). This area is the area of 
the Art Nouveau board available for the current round.
Action Space
City of Brussels shield
A STOCK EXCHANGE PHASE

Note : A player is not required to perform the action after 
placing his assistant on the Art Nouveau board. He is allowed 
to place it just to participate in the auction.
B ACTION PHASE
During each round, the players use their Assistant pawns to perform actions on the Art Nouveau board or on the 
Brussels board. Beginning with the first player, then going clockwise, each player performs one action until all 
players have passed. The action can be selected from those in the available area of the Art Nouveau board or from 
the 4 actions of the Brussels board.
In order to take an action on this board, the player must 
place an Assistant pawn on an action space in the avai-
lable area (the area defined in the Stock Exchange phase). 
He must accompany his assistant with a bid of his choice of 
at least 1 BF (we suggest that you place the coins in a stack 
under the Assistant pawn). This also allows you to participate 
in the auction for the Bonus card situated at the bottom of 
that column (see Resolution of the Turn Phase). The player 
then immediately performs the action corresponding to the 
chosen Action space. Each Action space may be used only 
once per round, so there can never be two Assistant pawns on 
the same Action space.
THE ACTIONS OF THE ART NOUVEAU BOARD
Workshop Action
The player creates a work of art 
in his studio. He draws a Work 
of Art tile from the stack of color 
Works of Art; if he possesses one or more 
Exhibition tiles, he draws the same number 
of additional Work of Art tiles. Now he chooses one tile, 
places it face-up in front of himself, and returns the others 
to the stack.
Sale Action
The player sells one of his 
works of art and exhibits it 
in the shop window. He must 
proceed step by step: 
1. The player can move the Workshop cursor, 
horizontally and/or vertically, a number of spaces equal to 
the total number of works he has in front of him.
2. From among his Work of Art tiles, he chooses one whose 
color is different from those of the two works of art visible 
in the shop. It is impossible to sell a work whose color is 
already displayed in the shop.
3. He immediately receives the money and VPs indicated 
by the Workshop cursor dot that is the same color as 
the work he sold. The dot’s row indicates the monetary 
income, while the column indicates VP income.
4. Then he places the sold Work of Art 
tile on one of the two spaces in the 
store. For the first 2 sales of the game, 
he is required to put the work on an empty space. Later, he 
can choose whichever space he wants, covering the work 
of his choice. This choice is important because the color 
of the covered work will again be allowed to be sold at the 
next sale.
Note: If the available color Work of Art stack or/and the black 
Work of Art stack becomes empty, make two new stacks from 
the face-up tiles in the shop, making sure to leave the top 2 
tiles in place (see below).
Example: 1. Of the two works of art he has, the player 
chooses to sell his green work. He can do this because no 
green work is visible in the store.
2. Because he had two works before the sale, he can move the cursor 
workshop two spaces:
Initial position 
of the Workshop 
cursor
Moving the cursor 
one space to the left
Moving the cursor 
one space down
3. The work he sold is green, so the player 
looks at the position of the Workshop cursor’s 
green dot: He immediately earns 2 BF and 
6 VPs.
4. He then places the sold work in the shop 
window. He chooses to put his green work atop 
the yellow work. As a result, it is not possible to 
sell black or green during the next sale.

Royal Theater Action
The player approaches a 
Public Figure of Brussels 
during a theatrical perfor-
mance in order to enlist his services. The 
player chooses a Public Figure card from 
the 4 cards of the display.
The card on the right is free, while the second costs 1 BF, the 
third costs 2 BF, and the fourth costs 3 BF. The money paid is 
put into the general supply. The player immediately performs 
the action of the selected Public Figure card (see Appendix 1 
for an explanation of the cards).
Two options are then available to him:
- Either he discards the card and benefits from it no 
further,
- or he keeps it and places it in front of him, rotated 90° 
clockwise, indicating that the Public Figure has been used 
this turn and can’t be used any more. In this case, the player 
must keep the card until the end of the game, without any 
way to dissociate from the Public Figure. It may harm him 
in the endgame, because he will then have to pay the amount 
indicated on the card, with the risk of losing 5VP if he can’t. It 
is impossible to keep two identical cards (but you are allowed 
to approach a Public Figure identical to a card you’ve already 
kept, provided you choose to discard the new one).
The number of Public Figure cards that each player can keep 
in front of him is unlimited. In subsequent rounds, each 
Public Figure card can be activated again by the Grand Plaza 
action or Royal Theater secondary action (see below). Finally, 
the player must shift the Public Figure cards in the display to 
the right so as to fill the gap created by his action. He then 
reveals the top card of the deck he places on the 3 BF space.
Materials Action
The player gets 2 Noble Materials 
cubes. He takes two noble mate-
rials of his choice (wood, stone, 
and/or iron). He can take two different materials 
or two identical materials. He cannot choose a 
white Joker cube. If there are no more materials available in 
the general supply, he simply can’t take them.
Construction Action
The player constructs a Building 
tile from his personal board on 
the Art Nouveau board. This 
allows him to finance the construction of the 
Masterpiece shown on his personal board (the 
tile depicts a portion of the masterpiece). To perform this 
action, the player must proceed step by step:
1. He must pay a construction cost as defined by the 
compass (see the Compass rules). The construction cost 
depends on the row of the personal board from which the 
Building tile comes. The lower tiles cost 2 construction units, 
the middle ones cost 3, and the upper ones cost 4. The player 
must first build the two lower tiles before building those in 
the middle, and must build the middle ones before those at 
the top. Important: Each construction unit can be replaced 
by a white Joker cube (for example, it is possible to pay 1 
white cube instead of 3 BF.)
2. If the player has not played any white Joker cubes in 
paying its construction cost, he immediately gains 5 VPs. 
If he has played at least one Joker cube, he does not earn 
the 5 VPs.
Note: Playing more than one Joker cube has no more effect than 
playing just one.
3. The player must turn one of the two compass needles one 
space clockwise. The needles are never allowed to point at 
the same box.
4. The player places the constructed Building tile on an 
empty Action space on the Art Nouveau board. This space 
does not have to be in the area made available for this round. 
On the other hand, there must be no Assistant on this space. 
Now, the player will receive a secondary action whenever 
an opponent chooses to place an Assistant on this space 
(see Appendix 2: Secondary actions on the Art Nouveau 
board). Each of the 2 Building tiles from the top row imme-
diately give the player 5 VP as it is constructed. At the end 
of the game, each constructed Building tile gives the player 
a number of VP equal to his reputation level on the Archi-
tect track on his personal board (see End of the Game).
Compass rules
• The compass comprises six spaces on which 6 tiles were 
placed, as well as the two compass needles. Each tile 
shows a construction unit that can be used in construc-
ting a Building tile:
• Th e 2 compass needles always show 2 diff erent spaces, 
and thus 2 diff erent construction units.
wood
stone
iron
1 noble material of your choice
3 BF
an empty space
• Th e player must use each of the 2 constructions units 
indicated by the 2 compass needles each time he builds. 
If he has to pay 2 construction units, he has to pay 1 unit 
of one type and 1 unit of the other type. If he has to pay 
more than 2 construction units, he can pay however much 
he wishes in each type, as long as he pays with both types 
of construction unit specifi ed by the two compass needles. 
Example: Th e green player must pay three 
construction units to build a Building 
tile. One compass needle indicates wood, 
while the other indicates 3 BF: He can pay 
with either two wood cubes and 3 BF, or 1 
wood cube and 6 BF.

Unlike the actions of the Art Nouveau board, the 
Brussels actions do not require money, and can be 
performed by multiple players in a single round. The 
first time a player wants to take an action in a given 
round, he must place one Assistant pawn. The next 
player (which could be the same player) to use the 
same action that round must place two 
new Assistant pawns. It is then possible to use the same 
action a third time by placing three new Assistants and 
so on. As with the Art Nouveau actions, when the player 
takes a Brussels action, he immediately performs it. 
There are 4 Action spaces on the Brussels board:
THE ACTIONS OF THE BRUSSELS BOARD
Market Action
At the market of Place Sainte-Catherine, 
the player receives 3 white Joker mate-
rials. These Joker materials can replace any 
construction unit during the construction of 
a Building tile.
Stock Exchange Action
The player gains a sum of money equal to 
the value indicated at the top of the Stock 
Exchange card revealed in the Stock 
Exchange phase.
Fiftieth Anniversary Park Action
The player has access to one action of 
his choice from the 5 actions of the Art 
Nouveau board. The player does not place 
an Assistant pawn on the Art Nouveau board. 
It is always possible to choose an action even 
if it is not currently available on the Art Nouveau board. 
Taking this action does not cause the player to participate 
in an auction on the Art Nouveau board.
Important: In 4- and 5-player games, the 
actions of the Brussels board are available 
twice. This permits the second player who chooses an 
action to use it with only one assistant. The third and 
fourth players to use the action would need 2 assis-
tants, and so on.
PASS
When a player cannot or does not want to perform 
an action in the current round, he passes when it 
is his turn.
The first player to pass takes the Exhibition tile for this 
year, places it in front of himself, and receives 1 BF + 
1 BF per color of Work of Art in his possession (thus the 
maximum income is 6 BF). He participates in the exhi-
bition as a guest of honor. This tile will also enable him 
to draw an additional Work of Art tile during future 
Workshop actions.
The other players continue to play until they also pass. 
When the other players pass, they each earn 1 BF per color 
of Work of Art in their possession (thus their maximum 
income is 5 BF).
When all players have passed, the Resolution of the Turn 
phase begins.
Grand Plaza Action
The player meets Public Figures on the 
Grand Plaza, and employs their services. 
He can immediately activate Public Figure 
cards from those in front of him and utilize 
their effects. Only the upright cards (not 
rotated 90°) can be activated. The maximum number of 
cards that the player can activate with each Grand Plaza 
action depends on his influence at the Royal Palace, i.e. the 
position of his disc on the Royal Palace track. Each Public 
Figure card activated must be rotated 90° clockwise.
Example: The green player chooses the Grand Plaza 
action and places one Assistant pawn. He is on space 
3 of the influence track at the Royal Palace. He uses 3 
of his Public Figures cards that are still upright, and 
then rotates them.
• If a needle points at the “1 noble material of your choice” 
space, he can pay that construction unit with any noble 
material he wishes, but he still has to pay at least one of the 
construction unit indicated by the other compass needle.
• If a needle points at the empty space, he must pay the 
entire construction cost with the construction unit indi-
cated by the other compass needle.
Example: The green player must pay 
4 construction units to build one of 
his higher Building tiles. One compass 
needle indicates wood while the other 
shows the empty space: He must pay 
with 4 wood cubes.
 
 
 
 
 
 

1. Bids on the Art Nouveau board
The player who placed the most total money in 
a column (add up each player’s individual bids) wins 
the Bonus card placed at the bottom of this column. He 
places the card near his personal board. In case of a tie, each 
player involved in the tie benefits from the central power
(see 3. Using the Bonus cards), but the card is discarded.
2. Designation of the new first player
Each player adds up the number of Manneken 
Pis that he earned in that round. There are 0, 1, or 2 
Manneken Pis on each Bonus card earned during this 
round, and 2 Manneken Pis on the Exhibition tile that 
the first player to pass got. The player with the highest 
total is the new first player. In case of a tie, the tied player 
who is the first one clockwise from the current first player 
becomes the new first player. The new first player takes the 
Manneken Pis pawn.
Note: This does not include Bonus cards and Exhibition tiles 
gained in previous rounds.
3. Using the Bonus cards
Players who won one or more Bonus cards 
during phase ‘‘1. Bids on the Art Nouveau board’’ can use 
these cards.
For each card, a player must choose between:
- benefitting from the central power of the card or
- tucking the card under his personal board.
Benefitting from the central power of the card
The following five steps must be resolved in this order:
Example: The orange player wins the auction 
in this column because he bid 3 BF, while the 
blue player has bid only 2 BF. He wins the 
Bonus card and he places it near his personal 
C RESOLUTION OF THE TURN PHASE
you to advance your disc 
1 Shield space on the 
City Hall track.
you to retrieve an Assistant 
pawn from the Court-
house. If you have no 
Assistant pawn in deten-
tion, this has no effect.
Certain cards 
permit you 
to choose 
between 2 
powers.
you to advance your disc 
1 Coat of Arms space on 
the Royal Palace track.
Others permit you 
to benefit from a 
double power. 
This Bonus card 
allows you to advance 
your disc 1 space on 
the Architect track of 
your personal board.
There are 4 types of Bonus card:
Note: A Bonus card is discarded after using its central power.

Example: The red player won three Bonus cards. He chooses to 
place the first in the first row and, and the second in the second row.
The first card will allow him to earn 2 additional VPs per 4 BF he 
has at the end of the game. 
The second card gives him 1 additional VP per Work of Art still in 
his possession.
He chooses to use the central 
power of the third card, and 
moves his disc 2 spaces on 
the Royal Palace track.
Example: We are looking at majorities around the 4 numbered 
shields, taking into account the players’ positions on the City Hall 
track:
1 and 4: These shields are not scored, because they are not 
surrounded by 4 assistants.
2: The blue player earns 2 VPs (his disc is on space 2 of the City 
Hall track)
3: The orange and blue players are tied. The orange player earns 3 
VPs, and the blue player earns 2 VPs.
Tucking the card under his personal board
The player tucks the Bonus card under one of the four rows 
of his personal board. Each row acts as a multiplier for 
endgame VPs awarded for things in your possession at that 
time. The cards must be positioned so that each VP symbol 
is clearly visible. Each row has 1VP symbol built in, even 
if there are no cards tucked under it.
Row 1: For each set of 4 BF in his possession, the player 
will earn as many VPs as VP symbols present in this row.
Row 2: For each Work of Art still in his possession, the 
player will earn as many VPs as VP symbols present in this 
row.
Row 3: For each Public Figure card in his possession, the 
player will earn as many VPs as VP symbols present in this 
row.
Row 4: For each Assistant pawn beyond the second in 
his possession (in other words, the number of Assistants 
minus two), the player will earn as many VPs as VP symbols 
present in this row. Assistant pawns in the Courthouse do 
not count.
Important: During a single round, a player cannot place 
two cards in the same row.
Note: The cards without any VP symbols cannot be tucked 
under the board.
4. Shield Majorities on the Art Nouveau board
Examine each City of Brussels shield on the Art 
Nouveau board one by one. Check for majority around 
any shield that has 4 Assistant pawns around it. The 
player who placed the most of the 4 Assistants around the 
shield earns a number of VPs equal to his level of influence 
on the City Hall track. In case of a tie, each player involved 
in the tie receives their full VPs. 
Note: The money bid has no influence on this majority.
5. Majority on the Brussels board
Identify the player who placed the most total Assis-
tant pawns on the 4 action spaces on the Brussels board. 
That player must move one of those Assistant pawns 
onto the Courthouse space. In case of a tie, each player 
involved in the tie must send one of his Assistant pawns to 
the Courthouse.

Each player’s score is calculated in two steps:
1. Each player must pay the amounts indicated on the 
Public Figure cards that he kept. For each Public Figure 
card he doesn’t pay, the player loses the card and 5 VP on 
the scoring track.
2. Next, each player’s total score is calculated as follows: 
a. The VPs accumulated on the scoring track during the 
game.
b. The VPs from construction: Each Building tile he 
built earns him as many points as his level on the Archi-
tect track of his personal board.
c. The VPs earned from Bonus cards tucked under his 
personal board.
d. 1VP per Noble material he possesses (the Joker mate-
rials are worthless).
e. The player who finished with the Manneken Pis pawn 
gets 5 VP.
At the end of the 5th round, the game ends after resolving the majorities on the Brussels board. Proceed directly to 
the final scoring, skipping the End of Turn phase. 
Example: At the end of the game, the blue 
player earns:
a. 80 VPs already accumulated on the scoring 
track
b. 40 VPs for the 5 building tiles he built (his 
level on the Architect track is 8)
c1. 5 VPs for 6 BF (he earns 5 VPs per 4 BF 
- Remember that each row is 1 base + 1 per 
symbol on cards)
c2- 3VPs for his work of art
c3- 2VPs for his Public Figure cards
c4- 6VPs for his 5 Assistant pawns 
d- 3VPs for his 3 Noble materials. 
END OF THE GAME 
Example: The green player has 5 Public Figure cards for a total 
value of 15 BF. Because he has only 12 BF, he pays 11BF and says 
farewell to a 4 BF Public Figure; and he loses 5 VPs. 
• Each player retrieves his played Assistant pawns, except 
those detained at the Courthouse. 
• The money bid on the action spaces of the Art Nouveau 
board goes back into the general supply. 
• Each player turns his rotated Public Figure cards upright, 
in order to make them available again. 
• Reveal the Exhibition tile for the new round. 
• Discard the Public Figure card from space 0 of the Royal 
Theater, then move the other cards to the right to fill the 
gap. Then reveal the top card from the deck and place it 
on space 3.
• Bonus cards still on the board are discarded. Then draw 5 
new cards from the deck.
• Discard the Stock Exchange card from the round that just 
ended
 
Note: At any time during the game, when the stack of Public 
Figure cards is empty, shuffle the cards from the discard pile to 
create a new draw deck. 
D END OF TURN PHASE 
 
!
"
"
"

!
"
"


b
b
c1
c2
c4
 
 
 
c3
d
 
 
 

APPENDIX 1 : THE PUBLIC FIGURE CARDS
Georges Brugmann
Gain 5 BF.
Ernest Solvay
Gain 1 Noble Material 
cube of your choice, 
or exchange one Joker 
Material cube for 2 
Noble Material cubes of 
your choice.
Charles Buls
space on the influence 
of the City Hall track. 
 
 
 
Henry Van De Velde
space on the Architect 
track on your personal 
Edouard Empain
Gain 2 Joker Material 
cubes. 
Prince Albert
space on the influence 
track of the Royal 
Palace. 
Emile Vandervelde
Retrieve 1 Assistant 
pawn from the Court-
house. This Assistant is 
immediately available. 
Maurice Maeterlink
Gain 5 VPs. 
Example: The green player has sold a black work of art. 
After having moved the Workshop cursor, the cursor indi-
cates an income of 2 BF and 4 VP.
When a player chooses an action on the Art Nouveau board, on which an opponent has built a Building tile, the 
opponent gets a secondary action, as defined by the main action. He performs this secondary action immediately 
after the active player has performed his primary action. The different actions are: 
Workshop Action: The player creates a black 
work of art. He takes a black work from those placed 
near the gameboard. He may sell this work through the 
Sale action of the Art Nouveau board.
The sale will be conducted under the same rules as the 
color works. Of course, it is forbidden to sell a black work 
if a black work is already on display in the shop. Profits 
from the sale are indicated by the center of the Workshop 
cursor.
Sale Action: The player earns 1 VP per work 
he has before him (including black works). 
Royal Theater Action: The player can activate 
a Public Figure card from those upright before 
him. He benefits from its effect immediately, and rotates 
it 90°. 
Materials Action: The player can take one Noble 
Material cube of his choice from the general supply. 
Construction Action: The player earns 1 
VP per building he has already built on the Art Nouveau 
APPENDIX 2 : SECONDARY ACTIONS ON THE 
ART NOUVEAU BOARD 

© 2013 Z-Man Games, Inc.
Z-Man Games inc.
 31, rue de la Coopérative Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 Canada
Copyright Z-Man Games, Inc
www.zmangames.com.
www.pearlgames.be
© 2013 Pearl Games
The 2-player game takes place in exactly the same way, 
with one exception: Each player starts the game with 
an Assistant pawn of a neutral color (selected from 
the unplayed colors). At the start of the Action phase, 
starting with the first player, each player must play a 
neutral Assistant pawn on an Action space of the Art 
Nouveau board. This space must be part of the avai-
lable area of the Art Nouveau board. There cannot be 
a Building tile on the chosen space (if no empty space 
is available, the player simply does not play a neutral 
Assistant).
No bid shall accompany the neutral Assistant. These 
Assistant pawns are taken into account when deter-
mining majorities on the Art Nouveau board: If the 
neutral color wins a majority, no players earn any VP 
(note: but this isn’t true in the event of a tie).
APPENDIX 3 : 2-PLAYER GAME 
Thanks: 
The designer thanks all his gaming companions, who, in each having added a stone to the edifice, have allowed him to construct this 
building, especially Geof, Jim, and Phil, whose contributions were steadfast load-bearing walls.
Equal thanks go to Sébastien, who, by his confidence and professionalism, was the true, by-the-book project manager of this 
completed work. 
The publisher thanks Etienne Vienne, Shadi Torbey, Pascal Thomson, Patrick Adam, Christian Vanden Bosh, Adrien Drapier, and 
everyone else who helped us finalize this project. Finally, I thank above all others Anaëlle and Madeline for their constant support, 
without which Pearl Games would not exist! 
Designer: Etienne Espreman - Illustrations and Graphics: alexandre-roche.com 
Editing of the rules: Sébastien Dujardin and Etienne Espreman - Development: Sébastien Dujardin
English Translation: Nathan Morse