A game by Stefan Dorra for 3-5 players 
The Aim of the Game 
All hell is loose near the port. Many of the pirates are casting jealous glances at the riches in 
the large trading ships and hatching plans to get the lucrative booty. 
The motley teams are quickly gathered and they then decide which ships are to be relieved 
of their treasures and ducats. 
But even the strongest captain must take care, as each pirate wants a proper wage for his 
work. And if the booty is too small and the pay too high, the captain will have to pay. 
The player with the most money at the end wins. 
Components 
• 15 ship cards. 
• 24 pieces of booty: 
- 6 treasure chests; 
- 6 barrels of rum; 
- 6 candlesticks; 
- 6 daggers. 
• 75 coins: 
- 27 1-ducat coins (copper); 
- 18 5-ducat coins (silver); 
- 30 10-ducat coins (gold). 
• 25 wooden discs in five colors. 
• 1 sheet of stickers 
with 25 pirate stickers in 5 colors, plus 5 spares without color. 
Before the first game, the wooden discs are each fitted with 1 matching sticker in accordance with their color. 
• 1 manual of instructions 
 
 

Getting ready to play 
The ship cards are shuffled face down and form a deck kept face down nearby. The top 
three ships are laid face-up in the middle of the table. 
Each player takes the 5 Pirates in the color of his choice and lays them face up in front of 
him. 
In addition, each player receives 10 ducats. 
The rest of the money and the 24 pieces of booty are laid ready as general stock visible to all 
players. 
With fewer than 5 players, the unused pirates are removed from the game. 
How to play 
Play passes round in a clockwise direction. The eldest player begins. 
The player whose turn it is must always choose one of two possible courses of action: 
(A) Moving a pirate; 
(B) Boarding a Ship. 
If possible, the player must carry out one of these two options. However, if a player has no 
free pirate piece available when it is his go (all 5 are in other piles), then he does not move 
in this round. 
(A) Moving a pirate 
• A player takes his own pirate or his own pirate stack and puts it on top 
of an opposing pirate or pirate stack. 
• The player puts down the newly formed stack in front of him; this makes 
him the captain of this boarding party. 
A pirate stack belongs to the player whose counter is on top. 
Not allowed: 
• Once a stack has been made it may not be separated. 
• A player´s own pirate or pirate stack may not be put on another of his own pirates or 
pirate stacks. 
• A move which would make a pirate stack have a height of more than 9 cannot be made. 
• Players can’t look at the value of the pirates concealed in a stack. 
(B) Boarding a ship 
A player can only board a ship as 
captain. To do this, a player puts 
one of his own pirate stacks on 
an upturned ship card. 
The pirate stack must have at 
least the required number of 
pirates, as shown on the ship 
card. 

Sharing out the booty: 
• First he chooses one of the pieces of booty pictured on the ship card and takes it from 
the general stock. 
• The player to whom the second pirate in the stack belongs, gets the other pictured 
piece of booty, if any, from the stock. 
• The captain now takes the amount of money shown from the stock. 
• Then he pays the crew which took part in the boarding of this ship. 
• He pays out the amount of ducats indicated on the pirate pieces of the other players 
which were involved in the boarding party. 
• There are pirates who have a question mark instead of a number. 
• If they have taken part, they are paid the amount which is shown next to the question 
mark on the respective ship. 
After all the pirates who took part have been paid, the players are given back their pirate 
pieces and they lay them face-up in front of them. 
There is not enough booty 
• If there is not enough booty to pay all the pirates belonging to the other players, the 
captain must use his own money. 
• If he does not have enough money at his disposal, the missing amount is paid to the 
other players out of the general stock. 
• Although the captain now has no money, he keeps his pieces of booty. 
New ship cards 
• The card of the boarded ship is removed from the game. 
• When the last of the face-up ship cards has been boarded, three new ship cards are 
turned up. 
Note: as there are 15 ship cards, 3 ship cards are laid out a total of five times during the game. 
Mutiny 
• If a player has 3 or more of his playing pieces in a stack belonging to another player, this 
player may mutiny and force the captain to board a ship. 
• When it is the captain's turn (the owner of the stack), the mutineer can challenge him to 
board a ship. 
• If there is a choice of several ships which can be boarded, the captain alone decides 
which ship he will board. 
• The pirate stack must have the required number of pirates to board the ship. 
• The boarding is carried out as usual. 
• The stack is broken up and the pirate pieces are 
returned to their owners. 
If the captain has several stacks where a mutiny is 
taking place, only one ship is boarded. 
The captain decides which of the stacks he is going 
to use to board. 
 
 

The End of the Game 
As soon as all 15 ships have been boarded, the game ends and scoring takes place. 
Whoever owns the most pieces of booty of one kind is paid the amount shown on the 
booty in ducats. 
If several players have the same number of one kind of booty, they share the corresponding 
amount, rounding down; 
Players who have pieces of booty for which they received no money get, as a small 
consolation, 1 ducat for each of these pieces of booty. 
The player with the most money is the winner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adaptation and manual design by Nuno Silva (bgg: stormrover). 
Version 1.00 
Original english translation by S. Westenra (bgg: grelb). 
Images taken from the BGG image gallery at 
http://www.boardgamegeek.com/images/thing/22287/buccaneer. 
Original image authors: 
Chris Fenwick (bgg: fenwick); 
Dede Kurnia Kardiman (bgg: ddkk); 
Andy (bgg: Grimwold). 
 
For further information about the game author, 
please visit ww.dorra-spiele.de. 
Game: © Copyright 2006 Queen Games, 
D-53842 Troisdorf, 
Germany