RICHARD GARFIELD
PAUL MAFAYON
A game by
Bunny Kingdom is a game for 2 to 4 players, in which you are Rabbit 
Lords who are conquering a new world on behalf of the Bunny King. 
You will need to get the best of what these lands have to offer. Explore 
the furthest corners, construct Cities, farm Resources to make your Fiefs 
prosper, and accumulate precious Golden Carrots. Don’t forget to satisfy 
the King by accomplishing Missions of the utmost discretion on behalf of 
His Majesty!
Every choice can bring you laurels of victory, but in the end, only the most valiant 
among you will be named “Big Ears” by the Bunny King. Will you be worthy?
Illustrated by
45min
14+
2-4

Overview and Goal of the Game
Bunny Kingdom is a drafting and placement game that plays over 4 Rounds.
During each Round, players will develop Fiefs, construct Cities, farm new 
Resources, and receive Parchments. 
Choose your cards carefully to develop your strategy. Keep in mind the cards 
you pass on may help your opponents!
At the end of each Round, you harvest Golden Carrots (
) based on your 
Fiefs, their Strength, and their Wealth. Parchments will not be revealed until 
the end of Round 4, and will definitely disrupt what appeared to be set in 
stone!
After the final scoring, the player with the most 
 wins the game.
Components
• 1 New World board with a Score Track
• 144 Rabbit figurines (36 per color)
• 39 City figurines
-	27	Strength 1 Cities
-	 9	 Strength 2 Cities
-	 3	 Strength 3 Cities
• 24 Building tokens
-	12	Farm tokens 
-	 6	 Sky Tower tokens (3 pairs of 2 tokens each)
-	 6	 Camp tokens
• 182 Exploration cards 
• 4 Player Aid cards
• The Score Track 
lets you record 
the Golden 
Carrots (
collected by 
players at the 
end of each 
Round, as 
well as those 
gained through 
Parchment cards 
at the end of the 
game.
This board represents the New 
World. It is made up of a grid of 
10 x 10 spaces. Each space is a 
Territory that you can control and 
farm.
Territory Coordinates 
Each Territory can be identified by 
its coordinates and a terrain type. 
Each Territory is associated with a 
unique Territory card. 
Territory Types 
• Sea spaces 
produce Fish (
• Forest spaces 
produce Wood (
• Field spaces 
produce Carrots (
• Plains spaces 
do not produce any 
Resources.
• Mountain spaces do not produce 
any Resources. Strength 3 Cities can 
only be played on Mountains. 
• Lava Flows block 
the connection between 
two Mountains.
• Cities on the New World board 
are neutral until a player takes 
control of them.
The New World Board

Rabbit Figurines
These figurines represent your Rabbits and are 
used to identify which Territories you control. 
Keep yours in front of you. 
Note: In a 3-player 
game, if you run out of 
Rabbits, you can use 
some from the color that 
is not being used.
Tokens
Tokens are Buildings. There are 3 types:
Farms 
Farm tokens allow you to produce Resources. There are three kinds: 
• 3 Basic Farms, producing Wood, Fish, or Carrots; 
•	2 Trading Posts, that can produce a different 
basic Resource each Round;
• 7 unique Luxury Resource Farms (
), which produce luxury Resources 
but can only be built on specific types of Territories.
Sky Towers 
Sky Tower tokens come in pairs and let you connect two 
separate Fiefs.
Camps 
Camp tokens let you control empty Territories. 
City Figurines
Cities are Buildings. Cities come in 3 different Strengths: 
• Cities with Strength 1 have one Tower.
• Cities with Strength 2 have two Towers.
• Cities with Strength 3 have three Towers.
Strength 1
Strength 2
Strength 3

Exploration Cards
You will use these cards to develop your Fiefs and obtain precious Golden Carrots. There are 100 Territory cards (one 
corresponding to each Territory on the board), 42 Building cards (21 Cities, 12 Farms, 3 Sky Towers, and 6 Camps), 3 
Provisions cards, and 37 Parchment cards.
Building Cards
Building cards allow you to place Buildings (either 
tokens or Cities) on Territories you control to increase 
their Size, Wealth, or Strength.) 
 
• Fields, Forests, and Seas produce 
basic Resources.
• Plains and Mountains do 
not produce any Resources. 
• Already-established Cities 
have a Strength of 1. 
Territory Cards
Each Territory card represents one space on the board, 
with the coordinates shown in the top-left of the card and a 
reminder of the Territory’s color. These cards let you control 
spaces to create and enlarge your Fiefs. Territories come in 
several types: 
Note: Each player places the 
cards they play in their own 
discard pile next to them. 
You may examine the cards 
in any player’s discard pile at 
any time in case you need to 
verify placement.
• Sky Towers let you 
connect two Fiefs. 
-Sky Tower-
Connect 2 of your Territories 
with Sky Tower tokens.
Building 
Requirement
Type of 
Building 
be placed on a Field. 
be placed on a Forest. 
be placed on a Sea. 
be placed on a Mountain. 
 
• Strength 1, 2, and 3 Cities let you construct the corresponding 
Cities.
Requirement: 
Luxury Resource 
Farms (
have a Building 
Requirement.
 -Camp (2)-
 Place a Camp token 
and one of your Rabbits 
on an empty Territory.
A Trading Post 
is a Farm that 
produces your 
choice of one of 
the three basic 
Resources: Wood, 
Fish, or Carrots.
• Camps let you 
control empty 
Territories. 
Requirement: 
Strength 3 Cities have a 
Building Requirement.
Details of 
Building Requirements
There are four types of Buildings:
• Farms produce basic (white background: 
or luxury (black background: 
) Resources. 
The icon shows which Resource it produces. 

 
-Fisher King-
20 if you produce 
at least 7 Fish (
-Royal Crown- 
-Royal- 
Carrot
-PanPan-
the Barbarian
2 for each Territory you control 
without a City or Resource.
Provisions Cards
Provisions cards let you draw more Exploration 
cards.
-Provisions-
Immediately draw 
and play 2 cards.
Set Up
1.	
Place the New World board in the middle of the table. Place one Strength 1 City on each City space on the board.
2.	 Each player chooses a color, puts the 36 Rabbit figurines of that color in front of them, and places one of their Rabbits 
on space 0 of the Score Track. 
3.	 Place the remaining Cities and tokens next to the board. 
4.	 Shuffle all the Exploration cards to make a deck and place it face-down next to the New World board.
Parchment Cards
Parchment cards are kept secret until the end of 
the game and give you Golden Carrots (
). There 
are two kinds of Parchment cards:
• Missions are rewarded with (
) if you complete them.
• Treasures (
) give 
 without any 
requirements.
+

The Phases of a Round
1 - Exploration Phase
A- Draft Cards
Look at the cards in your Hand and choose 2 that you will play. 
Put them face-down in front of you. Place the rest of your cards face-down in front 
of your neighbor (be careful not to mix them with the cards they chose to play!). 
They will take them after the Play Cards Step.
During rounds 1 and 3: pass the cards to the player on your left.
During rounds 2 and 4: pass the cards to the player on your right.
B- Play Cards
Play the 2 cards you chose in the first step.
• If you play a Parchment card, place it face-down 
in front of you without revealing it. You can look 
at your Parchment cards at any time. They will be 
revealed after the 4th Round (at the End of the Game).
Note: The number of Parchment cards you have is 
public information.
• If you play a Territory card, place one of your 
Rabbits on the Territory shown on your card 
(it will have the same coordinates). 
You control this Territory from now on. 
Put the Territory card in your discard pile.
Note: If the Territory is already occupied by an 
opponent’s Camp, remove their Rabbit and the Camp 
token before placing your own Rabbit. Your opponent 
loses control of the Territory. If the Territory is 
occupied by one of your own Camps, remove the 
Camp token. This Territory can now hold a different 
Building.
A Fief 
A Fief is a group of connected Territories under one player’s control. Territories are 
connected if they meet on the sides (top, bottom, left, or right—not 
diagonally), unless they are separated by a Lava Flow.
• If you play a Building card, place it face-up in 
front of you and put the City or token shown (Farm, 
Sky Tower, or Camp) on it.
You can place your Buildings on the New World 
board during the Construction Phase. Buildings let 
you improve your Fiefs to make them more valuable. 
After placing a Building, discard the associated card.
 
 
 
• When you play a Provisions card, immediately 
draw and play two cards from the deck. Put your 
Provisions card in your discard pile.
You can now look at the cards your neighbor passed to you (if there are any). Repeat 
these two steps (Draft and Play) until all the hand cards have been played (for example, 
a total of five times in a 4-player game). After the last cards are played, begin the 
Construction Phase.
-King of Thieves-
12 if you control 
at least 9 Cities.
How Do I Play ?
Without showing the cards, give each player:
• 12 cards in a 3-player game 
• 10 cards in a 4-player game
The game is played over four Rounds. Each Round has three phases (Exploration, 
Construction, and Harvest) that are played simultaneously by all players. After the fourth 
Round, Parchment cards are revealed and the final 
 are scored.
Fiefs 1 and 
2 are not 
connected 
since the 
adjacent 
Mountains 
are separated 
by a Lava 
Flow.
Special Rules for 2 Player Games
• Each round, both players take 10 cards into their hand and place 10 cards face-
down in front of them without looking at them. These cards are their Reserves.
A- Draft Cards
Each time, before choosing cards to play, draw 1 card from your Reserve and add it to 
your Hand.
Then, instead of choosing 2 cards to play, choose 1 card that you will play and 1 
that you will discard (face-down). Pass the other cards to your opponent face-down. 
The Play Cards Step plays normally.

2 - Construction Phase 
During this phase, you can place your Buildings on the New World board by 
following the conditions below. Buildings increase the Strength, Wealth, or size 
of your Fiefs. You are never required to place a Building. You can leave them in 
front of you to place later. 
•	You can only place your Buildings on Territories you control, except for Camps 
which can only be placed on empty Territories. 
•	You must respect any Building 
Requirements of your Buildings 
Luxury Resource Farms (
) and 
Strength 3 Cities can only be placed 
on certain types of Territories, as 
indicated by the symbol on the card 
and the background color of the 
token.
•	A Building cannot be moved once it 
has been placed on the board.
•	There can never be more than 
one Building (City or token) on a 
Territory.
•	If you place a Building on a 
Territory that already produces 
a basic Resource it continues to 
produce that Resource in addition to 
the effect of the Building.
 
	 Effects of Buildings
•	Strength 1, 2, and 3 Cities increase the 
Strength of your Fief by 1, 2, or 3 respectively.
•	Farms increase the Wealth of your Fief.
•	Sky Towers connect two of your Territories in different Fiefs 
as if they were adjacent. These Territories and any Territories that 
are connected to them are now part of the same Fief.
•	Camps let you take control of any empty Territory (without a Rabbit 
or a Building) on the board.
 Each Camp has a priority number (shown on the card). If you want to place 
a Camp, you must announce its priority number without announcing which 
Territory you want to play it on. Any player who has a Camp with a lower 
priority number can interrupt you and play their Camp before you 
(starting with whoever has the lowest priority number). After they 
play their Camp (or pass), you can either play yours or pass and save 
your Camp for a future Round.
When you play a Camp, place one of your Rabbits on it to show that you 
control that Camp.
If an opponent plays a Territory card that corresponds to one of your Camps, 
remove the Camp and replace your Rabbit with one of your opponent’s. If you 
played this card, simply remove the Camp. You may play a new Building on 
this Territory from now on. 
Timothy reveals his two cards: Territory card A3 and Building card Mushroom Farm. 
• He reveals and discards Territory card A3 and puts one of his Rabbits on the matching Territory of the board, which 
enlarges his Fief by connecting B3 and A4, which he already controls. 
• He puts his Building card in front of him and puts a Mushroom Farm token on it.
Timothy has the Territory cards A3, G5, A4, H4, and 
F1, the Parchment cards Fisher, King of Thieves, and 
Royal Crown, and the Building cards Mushroom Farm 
and City 2.
• He chooses Territory card A3 and Building card Mushroom 
Farm, and places them in front of him, face-down.
• He passes the other 8 cards to his neighbor. 
-Fisher-
1 for each Fish (
you produce.
-King of Thieves-
12 if you control 
at least 9 Cities.
-Royal Crown- 
	Field	
Forest	
Sea	
Mountain
Example: 
The Mushroom 
Luxury Resource 
Farm can only 
be placed on a 
Forest. 
Example: Timothy 
adds a Camp to the 
Sea. His Fief now has 
one Strength 1 City 
and produces Fish.
Building example: Timothy adds his Mushroom 
Farm to the Forest at A3. This Territory now 
produces Wood and Mushrooms.
Example - Draft Cards
Example - Play Cards

3 - Harvest Phase
During this phase, players harvest 
 from all their Fiefs. 
Remember: A Fief is a Territory or group of connected Territories that you control. 
Territories are connected on their sides (not diagonally). 
All of the connected Territories in a Fief share their Resources and Cities. 
 
Important: A Fief only provides 
 if it has at least one City and one Resource.
Calculate the collected from a Fief
During each Harvest Phase, every one of your Fiefs gives you:
 from a Fief = Strength x Wealth
Determining the Strength of a Fief
The Strength of a Fief is the total of all of the Towers in its Cities. 
A Strength 1 City has one Tower, a Strength 2 City has two, and a Strength 
3 City has three.
Ex: This Fief has two Strength 1 Cities and a Strength 3 City. Its Strength is 
therefore 5 (1+1+3=5).
Determining the Wealth of a Fief
The Wealth of a Fief is equal to the number of different Resources it produces.
Ex: This Fief has two Forests that produce 2 Wood (but only one counts when 
calculating Wealth). One of them has a Mushroom Farm on it, and another Territory 
is a Sea that produces Fish. The Fief’s Wealth is therefore 3 (1 for Wood, 1 for 
Mushroom, and 1 for Fish = 3 different Resources).
• Move your Rabbit up on the Score Track for each 
 gained. If you pass 100
put a second Rabbit on the +100 space. If you pass 200 
, move the Rabbit to 
the +200 space.
• If you have just finished the 4th Round, it is the End of the Game. All players 
reveal their Parchment cards and it’s time for the final scoring!
Ex: Igor has three Fiefs. Fief 2 is 
adjacent to Fief 3’s Mountain, but 
the connection is interrupted by 
the Lava Flow.
Ex: If he can control this space, 
he would connect all three of his 
Fiefs together and they would 
share their Resources and Cities.
This Fief gives 15
: 5 (Strength) x 3 (Wealth).
Once the Harvest Phase is complete, begin a new Round. Deal 10 or 12 new cards 
to each player, depending on the number of players. 

Timothy (yellow) controls two 
Fiefs. Fief 1 has 6 Territories 
and Fief 2 has 3 Territories. Ludovic (pink) controls one Fief with 
2 Territories. 
Timothy’s Fief 1 has 4 Cities with a Strength of 7 (one Strength 3 on 
the Mountain, one Strength 2 in the Forest, and two Strength 1s). He 
produces Wood, Fish, and Mushrooms here, so 3 different Resources for a 
Wealth of 3. 
Timothy’s Fief 1 gives 7x3=21
Timothy’s Fief 2 has 2 Cities with a total Strength of 4 (a Strength 3 
and a Strength 1) and only produces Carrots for a Wealth of 1.
Timothy’s Fief 2 gives 4x1=4
Connecting his two Fiefs together would really pay off 
for Timothy, but it would be difficult since Ludovic 
already controls two Territories between Timothy’s 
two Fiefs. 
Note that Ludovic’s Fief provides no 
It produces Fish and therefore has a Wealth 
of 1, but it has no City (Strength=0).
During the next Round, Timothy takes control of an extra Sea 
space and places a Carrots Farm on it. He also takes control of 
a Mountain space and places a Gold Farm on it. 
Timothy’s Fief 1 still has 4 Cities with a total Strength of 7. By adding 
Carrots and Gold, he increased its Wealth to 5.
Timothy’s Fief 1 now gives 7x5=35
Timothy’s Fief 2 gained a new Mountain Territory and a Trading 
Post. He has 2 Cities for a total Strength of 4 and decides to 
produce Fish with his Trading Post for a Wealth of 2. 
Timothy’s Fief 2 gives 4x2=8
He gains 35+8=43 for this Round.
Ludovic added a Strength 1 City to his Fief 1. 
He now has a total Strength of 1 and produces 1 Resource (Fish) 
for a Wealth of 1.
Ludovic’s Fief 1 gives 1x1=1
Harvest example in Round 2
Harvest example in Round 3

Revealing Parchments and 
the End of the Game
At the end of the game, it’s time to reveal your 
Parchments! One at a time, each player reveals their 
cards and checks to see if they have fulfilled the 
requirements of their Missions.
Treasures automatically give 
, while 
gaining 
 through Missions depends 
on your Territories, Fiefs, Buildings, or 
even other Parchment cards.
For every 
 you gain, move your 
Rabbit up on the Score Track.
The player with the most 
 wins the 
game and the honorific title of “Big 
Ears” until the next game! 
In case of a tie, the tied players 
share the victory.
During the 4th Round, Timothy connects his two Fiefs by building 
a Sky Tower. The two Fiefs are combined into one that has 6 Cities 
for a Strength of 11 and produces all 3 basic Resources, Gold, and 
Mushrooms for a total Wealth of 5. Carrots Farm and Trading Post 
do not add anything else, since the Fief already produces all 3 basic 
Resources from its Territories. 
Timothy’s Fief 1 now gives 11x5=55
Ludovic’s Fief 1 still has a Strength and Wealth of 1.
Ludovic’s Fief 1 still gives 1x1=1
But, he was able to build a Strength 2 City on the Field in his Fief 2. 
With a Strength 2 City, this Fief has a Strength of 2 and produces 
Carrots for a Wealth of 1. 
Ludovic’s Fief 2 gives 2x1=2
Notes on the Missions
Scoring Resources
Several Missions refer to the Resources you produce (for example, the Carpenter 
gives 1
 for each Wood you produce). Unlike Fiefs, these cards actually count 
“all Resources,” even if two or more identical Resources are produced by the 
same Fief, and including any produced by Farms.
Important: At the end of the game, Trading Posts produce the same Resource 
they produced at the end of Round 4. You cannot choose one Resource while 
calculating a Fief’s Wealth during the last Round, then choose a different 
Resource to fulfill a Mission.
Reminder: A Territory can produce 2 Resources - a basic one on the board and 
a second one if you played a Farm on it.
Scoring Cities 
Some Missions refer to the number of Cities you control. The Strength is not 
important: A Strength 1 or 2 City counts the same for this type of scoring. 
Scoring Fiefs 
Other Missions refer to the number of Fiefs you have, or the number of Territories 
that make up a Fief. You cannot choose to ignore Sky Towers or Camps for these 
Missions. Territories connected by Buildings still make a single Fief.
Harvest example in Round 4
1010

Special Parchments
PanPan the Barbarian
This card refers to all 
of a player’s Territories 
(Plains and Mountains) 
that produce no Resources 
and have no Cities, even 
if they are part of a Fief 
that includes Territories 
that do.
-PanPan-
the Barbarian
2 for each Territory you control 
without a City or Resource.
-Liberal-
Copy a Parchment from 
the player on your right.
-Socialist-
Copy a Parchment from
 the player on your left.
-Left Glove-
1 , or 4 if you also 
have the Right Glove.
Glossary
Basic (
): A type of Resource that is produced by 
certain Territories or Buildings: Fish, Wood, or Carrots.
Building: There can only be one Building per 
Territory. Strength 1 Cities that start on the board at 
the beginning of the game are Buildings.
Connected: Applies to two Territories controlled by 
the same player with a shared side (not separated by 
a Lava Flow) or two Territories linked by Sky Tower 
tokens.
 
Deck: Exploration cards that have not been not dealt 
to the players. Provisions cards let you take the top 
two cards from the deck and play them immediately.
Draft: To choose one or more cards from your hand 
then pass the remaining cards to another player, so 
they can do the same action.
Empty: A Territory with no Rabbits or Buildings.
Fief: A group of Territories connected to each other. 
A Fief can be made up of only a single Territory.
Hand: Cards that a player holds in order to draft 
them during the Exploration Phase.
Lava Flow (
): A feature on the New 
World board that separates two Mountain spaces. 
Rabbits placed on either side of a Lava Flow are not 
connected.
Luxury (
): A type of unique Resource that is 
produced by Luxury Resource Farms.
Reserve: In a 2-player game, a stack of cards 
from which players add a card to their Hand before 
each draft.
Strength: Total number of Towers on all Cities in 
a Fief.
Wealth: Number of different Resources produced by 
a Fief.
Little Prince
If there is a tie between the Fiefs 
that give you the most 
, harvest 
all but one of them again.
-Right Glove-
1 , or 4 if you also 
have the Left Glove.
-Little Prince-
Harvest the from 
all your Fiefs again, 
except for your best Fief.
Liberal/Socialist
You copy the entire card: If you copy a 
Treasure, it also gives you Bonuses if you 
have the Treasure Guardian and/or the 
Treasure Hunter Mission.
Gloves
They give you 1 
 if you only have 
one glove or 4 each if you have 
both gloves (for a total of 8
1111

www.iellogames.com
©2017 IELLO USA LLC. IELLO, BUNNY KINGDOM, and their logos 
are trademarks of IELLO USA LLC.
©2017 ORIGAMES. ORIGAMES and its logo are trademarks of 
ORIGAMES.
WARNING! This product contains small parts that can be 
swallowed and may not be suitable for use by children under 
36 months. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR 
USE BY PERSONS 3 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Made in Shangai, China by Boda.
Jeu en anglais. Importé au Canada par 
Iello USA LLC, 5550 Painted Mirage Rd. 
Suite 320, Las Vegas, NV 89149, USA. 
Phone: 702-818-1789.
Lot: BKEN082017
Rules Summary
Setup
Place a Strength 1 City on each City space on the 
board.
Shuffle all the cards and make a face-down deck 
next to the board.
Each Player chooses a color and takes all their 
Rabbits,then places 1 Rabbit on the 0 space of the 
Score Track.
How to play ?
The game is played over four Rounds. Each Round has 
three phases played simultaneously by all players.
Deal to each player:
• 12 cards for 3 players 
• 10 cards for 4 players
1- Exploration Phase
A - Draft Cards
•	Each player simultaneously chooses two cards 
from their Hand, placing them face-down in front 
of them, and passing the rest of their cards to 
their neighbor.
B - Play Cards
All players simultaneously play their two chosen 
cards.
•	If you play a Parchment card, place it face-down in 
front of you without revealing it.
• If you play a Territory card, place one of your 
Rabbits on the Territory that matches the 
coordinates on the card. 
• If you play a Building card, place it face-up in 
front of you and put the matching Building token 
(Farm, Sky Tower, or Camp) or City on it.
• If you play a Provisions card, immediately 
draw and play two cards. Then put the 
Provisions card in your discard pile.
You can now look at the cards your neighbor 
passed to you, if there are any. Repeat these two 
steps (Draft and Play) until all cards are played.
Once all cards have been played, you can begin 
the Construction Phase.
2- Construction Phase 
During this phase, you may place some or all 
of your Buildings on the board, following the 
requirements below : 
•	You can only place your Buildings on Territories 
you control (except Camps). 
•	You must respect any Building Requirements 
for that Building. 
•	You can never move a Building once it’s placed 
on the board.
•	There can never be more than one Building on 
a Territory. 
•	Camps can only be placed on empty Territories, 
with no Rabbits or Buildings.
3- Harvest Phase
At the end of every Round, players harvest their .
 from a Fief = 
Strength x Wealth.
Strength of a Fief
The Strength of a Fief is the total of all the 
Towers in its Cities. 
Wealth of a Fief
The Wealth of a Fief is equal to the number of 
different Resources it produces.
Once the harvest is finished, you can begin a new 
Round. If you have just finished the 4th Round, 
move to the End of the Game.
A Territory or group of connected Territories you 
control. Territories are connected on their sides (top, 
bottom, left, or right—not diagonally) unless they 
are separated by a Lava Flow.
End of the Game
Reveal your Parchments and gain the 
 shown.
The player with the most 
 wins the game and 
the honorific title of “Big Ears” until the next 
game!
Credits
Designer: Richard Garfield
Illustrator: Paul Mafayon
Project Manager: Timothée Simonot
Packaging, Graphic Design & Rules Development: 
Origames
Coordination and Rules: Guillaume Gille-Naves
Artistic Director: Igor Polouchine
French Proofing: Alain Wernert, Aurélie Raphaël, 
Virginie Gilson
Translation: Danni Loe-Sterphone
English Editing: William Niebling
 
Special thanks to Gabriel Durnerin who started this 
project.
Thanks to playtester teams, 
especially to Rodolphe, Yohann, Quentin, 
Vincent, Frédéric, Cindy et Clovis. 
Thanks from Richard:
I want to thank several playtesters who participated 
in this game: Skaff Elias, Jim Lin, Bill Rose, Mon 
Johnson, Paul Peterson, Koni Garfield, Schuyler 
Garfield, Kai Toh, Jay Heyman, Wei-Hwa 
Huang, Tom Lehman, Larry Rosenberg, 
Ron Sapolsky, David des Jardins, Rob 
Watkins, Mike Turian, Andrew Gross, 
Brian Weissman, and especially Don 
Woods who organized the tests with 
the California playtest group! 
I apologize for forgetting to take notes 
and therefore forgetting some playtesters. 
Thanks to everyone.
 
FOLLOW US ON:
1212