CHATEAU ROQUEFORT
By Jens-Peter Schliemann and Bernhard Weber

MATERIALS

Building the Chateau and Preparation:
Now lay the grid board (with 5x5 holes) on the sliding tiles. If you use the other side of the gameboard, you can play Chateau Roquefort with another room layout.

34 sliding tiles:
- 21 with cheese (3 of each kind)
- 10 without cheese
- 3 with mousetrap and a hole

Distribute the 34 sliding tiles in any way you like so that one tile is placed on each collar hole. Put the remaining sliding tile next to the chateau.

4 foldable tower battlements: Fold the four battlements and insert them into the slots at the 4 corner towers.

Inside the chateau you see separate rooms. The rooms consist of either 2, 3 or 4 squares. Lay all roofs properly onto the rooms.

Put the 25 collecting tiles next to the chateau as the stock (these are the cheese tiles). There are 7 different kinds of cheese.

16 mice in 4 colors: Each player takes all 4 mice of one color and places them in front of them.

Chateau walls and dungeon: The bottom section of the box forms the chateau. Inside are the black cellar dungeons of the chateau.

GOAL OF THE GAME
Be the first to use your mice to collect 4 different kinds of cheese!

PLAYING THE GAME

Each player puts one of their mice in an unoccupied corner tower using any method.

Players choose a starting player. Play continues in clockwise order.

On your turn, you may take up to 4 actions from the following three possible actions: Uncover, Run and Slide.

You may execute the Slide action only once per turn. Other than that, you may combine, in any way, the actions in any way and in any number. A player may choose to take fewer than 4 actions.

Uncover Action:
Mice can uncover neighboring rooms by removing a roof tile. Put the removed roof near the chateau. Each uncovered room, regardless of size, counts as one action.

Run Action:
The mice get into the chateau and run along its rooms. A player can run with any of their mice. A player may move their mouse from one space to a neighboring space in any cardinal direction. Running diagonally is not allowed. The mice may not run on or over roofs. Only one mouse may stand in a space. Mice may jump over other mice. Each space passed through counts as one Run action.

Slide Action:
Take the remaining sliding tile and slide it into one of the 12 slots. As a result, a tile drops out on the other side of the row. Slide is the only action that may be taken only once per turn per player.

Mousetrap:
If somebody slides a mousetrap underneath a mouse, it plops into the chateau dungeon and remains there until the end of the game.

Collecting Pieces of Cheese:
If two of your mice are standing on spaces with the same kind of cheese, you take the collecting tile with that kind of cheese from the supply. You may collect each kind of cheese only once.

End of the Turn:
Re-cover all empty rooms with the appropriate roof. This does not count as an action.

END OF THE GAME
The game ends as soon as a player has collected 4 different kinds of cheese. This player has won.
The game also ends when a players third mouse plops into the cellar dungeon.

Published by Rio Grande Games, 2022. Game originally published by Zoch Verlag in 2007.
