A game for 2 to 4 tribal chiefs, 8 years and up
GAME CONTENTS
	44	Worker tiles – backs in player colors 
11 each in red, purple, white, and yellow
	4 	water carriers	
4	Village boards – backs in player colors 
1 each in red, purple, white, and yellow	
	 1 each in red, purple, white, and yellow
	28 	Jungle tiles – gray backs 
8x plantations
7x markets
3x gold mines	
3x water	
 2x Sun worshiping sites 	
5x temples
	20 cacao fruits	
12 Sun tokens	
48 gold coins	
	
	 1	 rule book	
	 1	 overview sheet for Jungle tiles (The sheet is part of the instructions – don’t forget to read it!)
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Cacao immerses players in the exotic world of the “Fruit of the Gods.” As the chief of your tribe, you must lead your people to 
prosperity and glory through the cultivation and trade of cacao. At the end of the game, the player with the most gold wins.
4x 1-1-1-1
5x 2-1-0-1
1x 3-0-0-1
1x 3-1-0-0
6x single plantation
2x double plantation
2x selling price 2
4x selling price 3
1x selling price 4
2x value 1
1x value 2
24x value 1
12x value 5
12x value 10
Sun worshiping spaces
Storage spaces 
for cocoa fruit
Water fields

SETUP
Each player chooses an available player color. He takes the Village board, the water carrier, and the Worker 
tiles of that color. He places the Village board in front of him and puts the water carrier on the water field 
with the value “-10.” 
 
WORKER TILES
The Worker tiles depict a sand-colored area with a hut of the respective player color in the middle. 
There are always 4 Workers of this color depicted at the edges of the tile in various distributions.
Depending on the number of players, each player sorts out the following Worker tiles and puts them back in the box: 
2 players: 	
3 players: 	
4 players: 
Each player shuffles their supply of Worker tiles to make a facedown draw pile next to their Village board. 
Then, each player draws 3 Worker tiles from their draw pile as a starting hand.
JUNGLE TILES
The Jungle tiles are predominantly green and depict locations where your Workers may perform different actions.
Take the following 2 Jungle tiles and place them faceup in the 
middle of the table diagonal to one another, as pictured below. 
These are the start tiles:
Shuffle the remaining Jungle tiles and lay them out as a facedown Jungle draw pile.
Draw 2 Jungle tiles from the Jungle draw pile and place them next to the pile as a faceup Jungle display. 
Sort the gold coins, cacao fruits, and Sun tokens into separate supplies.
1x 1-1-1-1
1x 2-1-0-1
1x 1-1-1-1
and
none
1x single plantation
1x market, selling price 2
and
JUNGLE TILES FOR THE TWO-PLAYER GAME
For the two-player game, take the following Jungle 
tiles and put them back in the box:
	2x	 single plantation	
1x	 water 
	1x	 market, selling price 3	 1x Sun worshiping site 
	1x	 gold mine, value 1	
1x	 temple
Example of a starting setup for 3 players
Jungle 
display
Jungle draw pile
Starting tiles
Bank
Sun token 
supply
Cacao fruit 
supply

PLAYING THE GAME
The game proceeds over several rounds, played in clockwise order. The oldest player is the start player and begins the game.
THE PLAYING AREA
During the course of the game, the players add Worker and Jungle tiles to 
the playing area.
When placing tiles, the following rules apply:
	1.	A Worker tile may never share a border with another Worker tile.
	2.	A Jungle tile may never share a border with another Jungle tile.
This will create a checkerboard pattern of Worker and Jungle tiles. The starting tiles 
have already determined whether you have to put a Worker tile or a Jungle tile on an 
unoccupied square of this pattern. The spaces where Jungle tiles must be placed are referred to as Jungle spaces.
A GAME TURN
On your turn, you have to carry out the following steps in the order indicated:
A) Place 1 Worker tile
Choose 1 Worker tile from your hand and place it next to one or more Jungle tiles.
You may orient the Worker tile however you wish.
B) Fill Jungle spaces
The placement of Worker tiles can trigger the filling of Jungle spaces. If the newly placed Worker tile causes an empty 
Jungle space to be bordered by 2 or more Worker tiles, that Jungle space must be filled. To whom the bordering Worker 
tiles belong does not matter. It is possible that several Jungle spaces must be filled in a single turn.
For each Jungle space that must be filled, you choose 1 Jungle 
tile from the Jungle display with which to fill it. If several 
Jungle spaces must be filled, you choose which Jungle tiles 
are placed where.
Attention: The Jungle display is only refilled at the end 
of each turn.
Note: In the unlikely event that more than 2 Jungle spaces 
must be filled in a turn, you first place the 2 faceup Jungle 
tiles, then draw additional Jungle tiles from the facedown 
draw pile to fill the remaining Jungle spaces.
If a newly placed Worker tile does not create a Jungle space that must be filled, 
or if there are no Jungle tiles remaining in the draw pile or display, 
then no Jungle tile is placed.

C) Perform Jungle tile actions
Each worker on the newly placed Worker tile that shares a border with a Jungle 
tile is activated. By activating a worker, you may perform the action of the 
adjacent Jungle tile.
You will find a detailed description of the actions of the different Jungle tiles 
on the overview sheet for Jungle tiles. The overview sheet is part of the game 
rules and has been separated for increased clarity.
If Jungle spaces were filled during this turn, each player may now perform the 
actions on the newly placed Jungle tiles now bordering their previously placed 
Worker tiles.
Attention: Each worker is activated exactly one time during the game – either 
when placing the Worker tile or when filling adjacent Jungle spaces 
with Jungle tiles later on.
The players involved may perform the actions simultaneously and independently 
of one another.
Note: Players may choose to not perform any individual action.
You may freely determine the order in which you perform actions. However, 
the actions for workers on one edge of the tile have to be completed before 
the actions for workers on another edge of the tile may be performed.
Note: Players may make change for their gold coins at the bank at any time.
Ending a turn
After steps A through C have been performed, draw a tile from your Worker draw pile and add it to your hand. 
Skip this step if your Worker draw pile is depleted.
If there are less than 2 Jungle tiles in the Jungle display, draw tiles from the Jungle draw pile to replenish the display to 
2 tiles. Skip this step if the draw pile is depleted.
Then, the next player clockwise begins his or her turn.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends after the round in which all players have placed their last Worker tile.
SCORING
	1.	The temples are scored individually, one after another. The players in first and second place obtain gold 
(see overview sheet for Jungle tiles). To keep things clear, scored temple tiles should be flipped over to their back side.
	2.	For each Sun token that you still own at the end of the game, you get 1 gold from the bank.
	3.	Finally, you add up your gold and add or subtract the value of the water field on which your water carrier is standing.
Note: Left-over cacao fruits do not give you any gold.
The player with the most gold wins.
In case of a tie, the tied player with the most cacao fruit wins. If there is still a tie, the tied players rejoice 
in a shared victory.
We wish to thank Hans im Glück Verlag for kindly allowing us to 
use the meeple from Carcassonne.
Author: Phil Walker-Harding
Illustrator: Claus Stephan
Many thanks to Sybille & Bruce Whitehill, “Word for Wort”, 
and Adam Marostica for the English translation.
All rights reserved.
© 2015 ABACUSSPIELE 
English version: 
© 2016 F2Z Entertaiment Inc.
31 rue de la Coopérative
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 
Canada 
www.zmangames.com
Example: 
After Yellow has placed 1 Worker tile and 
filled 1 Jungle space, all players involved 
carry out the Jungle tile actions:
Yellow receives 1 cacao fruit from the 
plantation and sells it at the market for 
3 gold.
Red has 1 cacao fruit left in his storage 
and also sells it at this market for 3 gold.