The Author:
Wolfgang Lüdtke, born in 1963, lives in Duisburg, Germany. A banker by
training and profession, Wolfgang started by collecting and reviewing games
and has moved on to creating and developing them. He prefers fast-paced
games and emphasizes this preference in this exciting card drama between
Caesar & Cleopatra.
Graphics: Franz Vohwinkel
Development: TM-Spiele GmbH
English translation/editing: Jay Tummelson
special thanks to Nick Sauer
Art.-Nr: 686314
© 1999 KOSMOS Verlag
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 1033
Placitas, NM 87043
www.riograndegames.com
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
MADE IN GERMANY
8:29 PM Page 1

Caesar and Cleopatra are locked in a struggle to determine the amount of
independence Egypt will have. The decision lies in the hands of the powerful
patricians. The players, as Caesar and Cleopatra, use their influence and special
actions to win patricians to their side. When a vote of confidence is called, the
player with the larger influence wins the voice of a patrician. Each voice brings one
point of victory. There are additional points of victory for the majority in a patrician
group, for the influence of a whole group and for a secret influence bonus. Whoever
earns the most victory points, chooses the fate of Egypt and wins the game.
8:29 PM Page 2

135 cards, specifically:
50 Roman cards:
37 influence cards
13 action cards
50 Egyptian cards:
37 influence cards
13 action cards
35 other cards:
6 influence bonus cards
21 patrician cards (5 groups)
8 vote of confidence cards
1) The secret influence bonus
There are 6 cards: 2 Senators, 2 Praetors, and 2 Quaestors.
To earn the influence bonus of 2 victory points, a player
must win at least 3 cards from the group on her influence
bonus card. Shuffle the 6 influence bonus cards, give one
face-down to each player, who looks at it and keeps it secret
from his opponent. Place the 4 unused cards face-down in
the box.
2) Set up the patrician cards
Place the 21 patrician cards on the table between the two
players, sorted by group in five rows next to each other as
shown. The order of the cards within each row has no
bearing on the game.
5 Senator
5 Praetor
5 Quaestor
3 Censor
3 Aedilis
3) Shuffle the vote of confidence cards
Shuffle the eight vote of confidence cards and place them
face-down on the table next to the patrician cards as shown.
The cards should look like this:
4) Set up the player decks
Each player takes a set of 50 cards. The player with the
Roman cards is Caesar; the player with the Egyptian cards is
Cleopatra. The sets have equivalent cards of two types:
influence cards (with the numbers 1-5 or letter “P” in the
top corners) and action cards (with the letter “A” on the
backs).
• Each player searches through her 37 influence cards and
sets aside two each of the numbers 1 through 5.
• Each player shuffles her remaining influence cards and
places them face-down on the table. This is her influence
deck.
• Each player arranges her 13 action cards in the order she
wishes to draw them. She then places her action cards in
a stack face-down; this is her action deck.
• Neither deck may be examined by the players during the
game.
For beginners: As most players learn how to use action cards
by playing them, you may want to play a few games with
randomly-shuffled action card decks.
Preparation
Contents
8:29 PM Page 3

5. Wrath of God (1 each)
Remove all influence cards from one
group: both yours and those of your
opponent. The cards are placed in the
players’ respective discard piles. There
need not be cards on both sides of the
group, but there must be at least one card
on the group to play the card.
6. Cleopatra’s/Caesar’s Veto (2 each)
Prevent the execution of your opponent’s
action card. When your opponent plays
an action card, you may play this card to
prevent the action. Discard both cards to
the players’ respective discard piles. You
may then draw a card from either your
influence deck or your action deck. You may not use a veto
card against a veto card.
The game ends in one of the following ways:
1) All patrician cards have been won by the players.
2) Both players have no more influence cards.
3) When neither player can play on any of the groups due
to the player and total maximums and the players do not
have and cannot draw action cards to change the
situation.
If a player cannot add influence cards to any of the groups
because the player has no influence cards or because the
player and total maximums have been reached in each
group (and she does not have an action card to change
this), the player must choose to be passive. When she is
passive, she may draw action or influence cards to allow her
to be active on her next turn. If a player has no more
influence cards in her hand or influence deck, she may no
longer play; her opponent, however, continues to take turns
as normal until the game ends.
The player with the most victory points wins. In the case of
a tie, the player who won the most patrician cards wins.
Victory points are earned for the following:
Each patrician card won
Majority in a patrician group
Win all patricians in a group
Achieve the influence bonus
2 victory points
The requirements for majority or “all” victory points are
based on the total for each group not just those won in the
game. Patrician cards, which were not won by either player
are not counted.
Examples: Jill has all 5 Quaestors and the influence bonus card for
this group. She earns 9 points (5 for the cards, 1 for the majority, 1
for having all cards in the group, and 2 for the influence bonus).
Anna has 2 Censors, but these are the only ones taken (3 are left on
the table). She earns just the 2 victory points for the cards.
Variants: Once you are familiar with the game, you may
want to try the following variants:
1) When all cards from 2 patrician groups have been won,
remove one Orgy card from the vote of confidence deck.
When all cards from a third group have been won,
remove another Orgy card. Do not remove the reshuffle
card in either case.
2) Before the game, remove one Orgy card (not the
reshuffle) from the vote of confidence deck.
3) Allow a player to play two influence cards face-down,
but forfeit the option for playing an action card on that
turn.
The end of the game
Scoring
Cleopatra’s Veto
Cleopatra’s
Veto
Prevent the execution
of your opponent’s
action card.
CÆSAR’S VETO
CÆSAR’S VETO
Prevent the execution
of your opponent’s
action card.
WRATH OF GOD
WRATH OF
GOD
Remove all influence cards
from one group - both
yours and your opponent’s.
Wrath of God
Wrath of God
Remove all influence cards
from one group - both
yours and your opponent’s.
8:29 PM Page 4

Example: The Censors are selected for a vote of confidence.
Cleopatra's influence is to 9 (4+5), Caesar has only 3 (1+2),
but he also has a philosopher card. Caesar wins and takes the
topmost Censor card. Caesar discards his 1 influence card (his
lowest) and the philosopher card. Cleopatra discards her 5
influence card (her highest).
The action cards
Each player has 13 action cards. She can play at most one
each round. Once played, the action card is discarded to
the player’s discard pile. There are 6 different action cards:
1. Assassination (4 each)
Remove one of your opponent’s face-up
influence cards from the game. Your
opponent puts the influence card on her
discard pile. This cannot be done if your
opponent has no face-up influence cards.
2. Spy (2 each)
Search your opponent’s hand, select one
card and remove it from the game (she
places it on her discard pile). Your
opponent now draws a card from either her
influence deck or her action deck to replace
the lost card.
3. Egyptian/Roman Castling (2 each)
Redistribute all influence cards from two
of your groups up-side-down. Pick up all
the influence cards from both groups.
Distribute the cards face-down to the two
groups. You may distribute the cards as
you like, including putting no cards on
one of the groups. You may not, however, place more than
5 cards on a group or place cards that would exceed the 8
card maximum for both players. You need not have cards in
both groups when you pick up the cards, but there must be
at least two groups to play the card.
4. Scout (2 each)
Turn all influence cards from one of your
opponent’s groups face-up. The cards
remain face-up until a subsequent action
card changes that (e.g. Castling). Your
opponent must have at least one face-
down card in the group you select for you
to be able to play this card.
Special rules when philosopher cards are present
• If the players have equal influence when resolving a vote
of confidence, there is no decision and no card taken.
All cards remain face-up, including the philosopher
card(s).
• If the only card(s) on both sides of a group during a vote
of confidence are philosopher cards, there is no decision
and no card taken. The philosopher card(s) remain face-
up.
• When one player has only a philosopher card and the
other has numbered influence cards, the player with the
philosopher card wins the vote of confidence and the
patrician card. The losing player discards her highest
influence card; the winning player discards the
philosopher card.
• When both players have an equal number of
philosopher cards (1 or 2), the cards cancel each other
and the player with the higher influence wins. Both
philosopher cards are discarded along with the
appropriate influence cards.
• When one player has one philosopher card and the other
has 2 philosopher cards, the player with the smaller
influence wins. All philosopher cards are discarded along
with the appropriate influence cards.
• When one player has two philosopher cards and the
other has none, the vote of confidence is decided as
though the player had only 1 philosopher card. Both
philosopher cards are discarded along with the
appropriate influence cards.
ASSASSINATION
ASSASSINATION
Remove one of your
opponent’s face-up influence
cards from the game
Assassination
Assassination
Remove one of your
opponent’s face-up influence
cards from the game
SPY
SPY
Search your opponent’s
hand, select one card and
remove it from the game.
Spy
Spy
Search your opponent’s
hand, select one card and
remove it from the game.
ROMAN CASTLING
ROMAN CASTLING
Redistribute all influence
cards from two of your
groups up-side-down.
Egyptian Castling
Egyptian
Castling
Redistribute all influence
cards from two of your
groups up-side-down.
SCOUT
SCOUT
Turn all influence cards
from one of your
opponent’s
groups face-up.
Scout
Scout
Turn all influence cards
from one of your
opponent’s
groups face-up.
8:29 PM Page 5

5) Placing the first influence cards
Each player takes the 10 influence cards she set aside:
• Each player places 5 of the cards (valued 1 through 5)
face-down on her side of the patrician groups, one card to
each group.
• Each player takes her remaining 5 cards (valued 1 through
5) as her starting hand for the game.
The table with the first 5 influence cards placed:
The players alternate turns placing influence cards on one
or two patrician groups. When a patrician group is selected
for a vote of confidence, the player with the most influence
on the group will win the voice one of the patricians (their
card) from that group.
The Cleopatra player begins. On her turn, she may choose
to be active or passive:
a) The player chooses active and
1) may play one action card, and
2) must play one or two influence cards, then
3) must draw cards to refill her hand, and
4) must draw the next vote of confidence card.
or
b) The player chooses passive and
may discard cards from her hand and draw to replace them.
a) The player chooses active
When a player chooses to be active, her turn consists of the
following actions:
1) Play one action card (optional)
The player may play one action card any time during her
turn (before, between, or after playing influence cards), but
prior to drawing cards to replace those used in the turn.
Once played, the action card is placed on the player’s
discard pile.
2) Play 1 or 2 influence cards (required)
The player must play 1 or 2 influence cards on her side of
the the patrician groups:
- 1 influence card face-down on the patrician group of her
choice or
- 2 influence cards face-up on 1 or 2 groups of her choice.
Game overview
Playing a round
face-up vote of
confidence cards
8:29 PM Page 6

Note:
• A player may look at her face-down influence cards at any
time.
• A player may have a maximum of 5 influence cards on
her side of a patrician group.
• Added together, the players may have a maximum of 8
influence cards on both sides of a patrician group.
3) Refill hand (required)
When a player has finished playing cards, she refills her
hand to 5 cards by drawing cards from either her influence
deck or her action deck. The player may decide with each
card drawn which deck she draws from. When a player has
no more cards to draw, she skips this action.
4) Draw a vote of confidence card (required)
Finally, the player draws a vote of confidence card.
Normally the card directs a group of patricians to voice
their current preference for either Caesar or Cleopatra, but
there may be an orgy (see below) instead. The card is then
placed face up beside the deck. The deck is reshuffled when
a special orgy card so directs.
b) The player chooses passive
When a player chooses passive (often for lack of suitable
cards to play), she discards (face-up) up to 5 cards from her
hand. She then refills her hand to 5 cards by drawing cards
from either her influence deck or her action deck. The
player may decide with each card drawn which deck she
draws from. This is the player’s entire turn; she does not
draw a vote of confidence card.
When the Cleopatra player has completed the active or
passive actions, her turn ends. It is now the Caesar player’s
turn. He has the same options as she had. The players
alternate turns, each choosing to be active or passive on
each turn until the game ends.
The vote of confidence
A vote of confidence can be called in two ways:
a) Draw a vote of confidence card
When a player draws a card with one of the patrician
groups named, a vote of confidence is called for the named
group.
b) Special vote of confidence: group of 8 influence cards
A special vote of confidence is called for a patrician group if
the group has a total of 8 cards from both players when a
player has finished playing cards. The vote is called prior to
the player refilling her hand. In the unlikely event that two
groups have 8 cards both votes are called at the same time.
Resolving a vote of confidence
When a vote of confidence is called for a patrician group, it
is resolved as described below.
• Each player turns over all face-down influence cards for
the affected group. All influence cards for both players
will now be face-up.
• Each player sums the influence cards on her side of the
group.
• The player with the highest influence sum wins the voice
of one patrician from that group. She takes one of the
patrician cards from that group and places it before her
on the table.
• The winning player discards her highest numbered
influence card from that group.
• The losing player discards her lowest numbered influence
card from that group.
• Each player places her discarded cards face up in her
discard pile.
Special rules
8:29 PM Page 7

• All remaining influence cards for this group are left face-up
and the game continues.
• If the players have equal influence sums, neither player
wins the vote of confidence. All influence cards on the
patrician group remain face-up and the game continues.
• If the vote of confidence was called due to a card being
drawn, the card is placed face up on the discard pile for
vote of confidence cards.
Note: When the players tie on a special vote of confidence
(the number of influence cards on both sides is 8), the tie
can only be resolved by one player or the other using action
cards to move or remove influence cards from one side or
the other, since neither player may add cards.
Example of Vote of confidence (by drawn card)
The card drawn calls for a vote of confidence from the Aedilis.
Both players turn over all face-down influence cards that have
been played on the group. The players sum their influence
cards: Caesar has 7 points of influence (3 + 4); Cleopatra has
8 points of influence (3 + 3 + 2). Thus, Cleopatra wins and
takes the topmost Aedilis card. Then Cleopatra must discard
one of her 3’s (it is her highest influence card); Caesar must,
likewise, discard his 3 (his lowest influence card).
When all patrician cards from a group have been taken
• When a player takes the last card from a patrician group,
all influence cards on both sides of this group are
removed and placed on their respective discard piles. If
the last card was taken as a result of a drawn vote of
confidence card, the player removes the vote of
confidence card from the game by placing it in the box.
• If a player subsequently draws the vote of confidence card
for this group, the player removes the it from the game by
placing it into the box and draws the next vote of
confidence card from the deck.
The Orgy card
The vote of confidence deck contains three Orgy cards.
When an Orgy card is drawn, no vote of confidence is
called. This does not effect special votes of confidence on
the player’s turn. The card is placed face up on the discard
pile for vote of confidence cards. When a player draws the
Orgy card requesting a reshuffle, the player mixes all vote of
confidence cards (except those removed from the game into
the box), shuffles them, and places the deck face down on
the table.
Philosopher influence card (“P”)
• The philosopher card is like other influence cards, except
it has a value of 0. It may be placed face-up or -down
next to a group. Most often it is placed face-down for
secrecy and protection.
• When a vote of confidence is called for a group that has a
philosopher card on one side or the other, the
philosopher “reinterprets” the result. Thus, the player
with the smallest sum will win the voice of the patrician
and the card representing it.
• The player with the larger influence must, although she
lost, discard her highest influence card; the player with
the lower influence discards her lowest influence card.
The philosopher card is also discarded.
Caesar
Cleopatra
8:29 PM Page 8