™
Rulebook

COMPONENTS
A competitive quilt-making, cat-collecting, tile-laying game 
by Kevin Russ, for 1-4 players, ages 14+
In Calico™, players compete to sew the coziest quilt as they draft and place patch tiles of 
different colors and patterns onto their quilt board. Each board will include 3 design goal 
tiles that will earn points if their requirements are met. Players are also trying to create 
pattern groups to attract the cuddliest cats and groups of colors on which to sew buttons. 
The player who gains the most points from their design goal tiles, cats, and buttons wins!
4 Dual-layer Quilt Boards
Your game of Calico™ should include the following. If it doesn’t, please email customerservice@alderac.com
108 Patch Tiles 
(6 sets of 18)
™

1 Score Pad
24 Design Goal Tiles 
(4 sets of 6 in 4 player colors
shown on tile back)
5 Double-sided 
Cat Scoring Tiles
52 Button Tokens
(8 of each color + 4 rainbow)
80 Cat Tokens
1 Master Quilter Tile
1 Cloth Tile Bag
6 Black + White 
Patch Tiles
1 Button Scoring Tile

PLAYER 1
PLAYER 2
Place the Millie, Tibbit, and Coconut Cat Scoring 
Tiles and their matching Cat Tokens in the 
center of the table. Return the other Cat Scoring 
Tiles and Cat Tokens to the box. They will not be 
used in the beginner game. 
Randomly assign 2 of the Black + White Patch 
Tiles to each Cat Scoring Tile.
Shuffle all Patch Tiles and place them into 
facedown stacks within easy reach of all players 
OR put them in the Bag.
Place the Button Scoring Tile and Button 
Tokens in the center of the table.
Give each player a Quilt Board and their matching set of 6 
Design Goal Tiles in their player color (your player color is 
the stitching color on your Quilt Board). The Design Goal 
Tiles will have a player color on the back of each tile.
Have each player place the ≠, AA-BB-CC, and AAA-BBB 
Design Goal Tiles on their Quilt Board following the 
example below. Return all other Design Goal Tiles to the 
box. They will not be used this game.
Each player draws 2 Patch Tiles from the facedown stacks 
(or Bag, if using) into their hand.
Reveal 3 Patch Tiles to form the tile market in the center of 
the table.
You are now ready to begin. The person who most recently 
pet a cat will be the first player.
BEGINNER SETUP
We recommend using the beginner setup until you are familiar with the game, before moving to the standard setup.

GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW
PLAYER TURN
Separate the Cat Scoring Tiles into groups by the 
number of dots in the corner ( , , ) 
Randomly select 1 Cat Scoring Tile from each group 
and randomly select which side will be used. Place 
them in the center of the table (alternatively, you may 
simply choose which three cats to use in the game). Find 
the Cat Tokens that match the chosen Cat Scoring 
Tiles and place them near the scoring tiles. Return the 
other Cat Scoring Tiles and Cat Tokens to the box. 
They will not be used this game. 	
Randomly assign 2 of the Black + White Patch Tiles 
to each Cat Scoring Tile.
Shuffle all Patch Tiles and place them into facedown 
stacks within easy reach of all players OR put them in 
the Bag.
Place the Button Scoring Tile and Button Tokens in 
the center of the table.
Give each player a Quilt Board and their matching set 
of 6 Design Goal Tiles in their player color (your player 
color is the stitching color on your Quilt Board). The 
Design Goal Tiles will have a player color on the back 
of each tile.
Each player shuffles their 6 Design Goal Tiles face 
down and reveals 4. From the 4 revealed tiles each player 
chooses 3 to use in the game by placing 1 onto each of 
the design goal tile areas on their Quilt Board. Return 
the unused Design Goal Tiles to the box. They will not 
be used this game.
Each player draws 2 Patch Tiles from the facedown 
stacks (or Bag, if using) into their hand.
Reveal 3 Patch Tiles to form the tile market in the 
center of the table.
You are now ready to begin. The person who most 
recently pet a cat will be the first player.
Beginning with the first player and going clockwise around 
the table, players will take turns until each player’s Quilt 
Board is completely filled with Patch Tiles (22 turns). The 
players will then count points for Design Goal Tiles, Cat 
Tokens, and Button Tokens. The most points wins!
On your turn you must perform steps 1 + 2 in order.
1. Choosing from the two Patch Tiles in your hand, place 
one onto your Quilt Board into any open space. Then, 
check your Quilt Board to see if you have gained a Cat 
Token and/or Button Token. If so, take the appropriate 
token(s) and place onto one of the tiles that scored it (see 
Cat Scoring Tiles + Cat Tokens and Button Scoring Tile + 
Button Tokens on page 7 for more information).
2. Choose one of the three faceup Patch Tiles from the tile 
market and take it into your hand (you may not draw from a 
facedown stack or Bag into your hand). Refill the market with 
a Patch Tile from a facedown stack (or Bag, if using).
STANDARD SETUP

DESIGN GOAL TILES
Each Design Goal Tile is a long-term goal that may score points at the end of the game based on the six Patch Tiles that 
surround it. To score points, each Design Goal Tile must be completed using either the colors OR the patterns of the six 
surrounding Patch Tiles. You can complete a Design Goal Tile twice (once with colors, once with patterns) and receive only 
the higher point value on the tile. There is no penalty for not completing a Design Goal Tile other than not receiving any 
points. Full explanation of each Design Goal Tile can be found on page 9.
The examples below are how a Design Goal Tile may and may not be completed. With this particular goal you need three 
different pairs of colors OR three different pairs of patterns to complete the tile.
will score 7 points. It was 
completed using three 
different pairs of colors 
(magenta, light blue, 
yellow). 
Note: the pairs do not need to 
be adjacent to each other to 
complete the Design Goal Tile.
will score 7 points. It was 
completed using three 
different pairs of patterns 
(stripes, flowers, dots). 
Note: the pairs do not need to 
be adjacent to each other to 
complete the Design Goal Tile.
will score 11 points. It was 
completed twice: once 
using three different pairs 
of colors (dark blue, green, 
light blue) and a second 
time using three different 
pairs of patterns (vines, 
flowers, quatrefoil).
This Design Goal Tile will 
score 0 points. There are 
not three different pairs of 
colors, nor are there three 
different pairs of patterns. 
Note: while there are three 
different pairs (purple, 
magenta, stripes), they are 
not exclusively in colors or 
patterns.
Completed with colors
Incomplete
Completed with patterns
Completed with colors + patterns
Total points earned for this Design Goal Tile if requirement is completed 
using color OR pattern by the end of the game
Total points earned for this Design Goal Tile if requirement is completed 
twice (once with color, once with pattern) by the end of the game
Design Goal Tile requirement (Ex. 3 different pairs-see page 9 for full 
explanations of each tile)
Icon showing you can complete this design goal using color OR pattern

The examples below are how you may and may not attract Callie the cat, with these patterns...
Note: each pattern area can attract one cat. If you wish to attract another cat of the same type, you must create a new separate pattern area 
that does not touch a previously scored one.
The patterns on your Patch Tiles can attract cats to your quilt. In each game, each cat will have two preferred patterns (see page 5, 
setup B). Each cat has a preferred tile group size or specific group shape they want these patterns to be in. To attract a cat you must 
make a group in their preferred tile group size or shape using one of their two preferred patterns. You may use the partial and whole 
edge tiles printed on your player board as part of the tile group. When the cat is attracted, take the corresponding Cat Token and 
place it onto your quilt onto a Patch Tile in the group that was just formed (see page 9 for full explanations of each Cat Scoring Tile).
CAT SCORING TILES + CAT TOKENS
Cat Tokens that match the Cat Scoring Tile
Points this cat is worth
Dot(s) used for Advanced Setup only
The two patterns this cat likes in this game
The group size or shape (shape in this case) that is 
required to attract this cat (shape may be rotated)
BUTTON SCORING TILE + BUTTON TOKENS
The colors on your Patch Tiles can earn you buttons to sew onto your quilt. To sew a button onto 
your quilt you must make a group of three Patch Tiles or more, of the same color. The group 
may be in any shape. Each button is worth 3 points. You may use the partial and whole edge tiles 
printed on your board as part of each group. When a group is formed, take a matching Button 
Token and place it onto your quilt onto a Patch Tile in the group that was just formed. If you 
expand your color group to a size of 6 or more tiles, you do not gain another button. To gain a 
second button of the same color, another group needs to be formed separately. If you sew at least 
one button of each color onto your quilt, you may take a rainbow button and sew it onto any Patch 
Tile on your quilt. The rainbow button is also worth 3 points.
Note: if you run 
out of cat tokens, 
simply use the 
tokens of the cat 
on the back side of 
that cat scoring tile 
as they are worth 
the same number 
of points.

GAME END + FINAL SCORING
The game ends after each player has completely filled their Quilt Board with Patch Tiles. Use the Score Pad to record points 
for each player’s Design Goal Tiles, Cat Tokens, and Button Tokens. The player with the most points is the winner! In case 
of a tie, the player with the most cat tokens is the winner. If still tied, the player with the most button tokens is the winner. If 
still tied, the victory is shared! Give the winner the “Master Quilter” badge and take their photo! Share it on social media with 
#CalicoGame !
Scoring Example
(≠) Completed with colors 10VP
(AA-BB-CC) Completed using 
colors and patterns 11VP
(AAA-BBB) Completed with patterns 8VP
2 Millies 6VP
2 Tibbits 10VP
1 Coconut 7VP
1 of each color + rainbow button 21VP
Design Goal Tiles
Cat Tokens
Button Tokens
Ari
VARIANTS
SOLO MODE
Family Variant
2-Player Lower Variance Variant
The family variant is for players who want a more casual game. Follow the standard setup, but before you play, flip your 3 Design 
Goal Tiles face down. They will not be scored, but will provide obstacles on your Quilt Board. In the family variant you will be 
focusing on attracting cats to your quilt and collecting buttons. If playing with 2 players you may also apply the 2-player lower 
variance variant (below).
When setting up for the solo mode you may use the beginner or standard setup (pages 4-5). Follow a player turn as usual, but 
after you choose your tile from the market, discard the tile furthest from the tile supply stack (or Bag, if using). Slide the single 
tile still in the market away from the supply stack/Bag (conveyor belt style). Refill the market one tile at a time placing each tile 
one spot closer to the supply stack/Bag. You may also apply the 2-player lower variance variant. Try out the Scenarios when 
playing the Solo Mode (pages 12-13).
This variant is for players who want less randomness in their game. Before following the beginner or standard setup, find and 
remove one set of 36 Patch Tiles. A set is each color-pattern combination represented one time. Continue play as normal.
End game scoring for Ari’s quilt

SCORING TILES
Two different pairs of colors and two different single colors
Two different pairs of patterns and two different single patterns
A 4-of-a-color and a pair of colors
A 4-of-a-pattern and a pair of patterns
Two different 3-of-a-color
Two different 3-of-a-pattern
A 3-of-a-color, a pair of colors, and a single color
A 3-of-a-pattern, a pair of patterns, and a single pattern
Three different pairs of colors
Three different pairs of patterns
All different colors
All different patterns
Millie
A group of 3 or more of 
Callie
Tibbit
A group of 4 or more of 
Rumi
Gwenivere
A group of 7 or more of 
Leo
Coconut
A group of 5 or more of 
Tecolote
Cira
A group of 6 or more of 
Almond
If you complete a Design Goal Tile using color or pattern, you gain the points in the blue circle (center). If you complete it 
using color and pattern you gain only the points in the yellow circle.
Shapes of the same pattern that touch each other will not attract another cat
Groups of the same pattern that touch each other will not attract another cat

Work your way up the Achievements chart to become a Calico quilt master! Calico Achievement points can be earned and tracked 
as you play Calico. Below is the Achievements progress chart where up to 6 players can keep track of their overall Achievements. 
You may begin gaining Achievement points at any time. To do so, write your name above any of the color rows below. Each 
time you play, you may choose one of the three Achievement modes: Scenarios (page 12-13), Normal Game (page 11), or Rule 
Restrictions (page 11). From now on, whenever you gain an Achievement point ( ) from any of the Achievement modes, fill in 
the circle of your color and then come back to this page and fill in the next shape on your row from left to right.
CALICO ACHIEVEMENTS
Budding 
Quilter
Weekend 
Warrior
Impressive
Skills
Semi-pro
Craft
Honed
Calico Quilt
MASTER!

ACHIEVEMENTS (Normal Game)
ACHIEVEMENTS (Rule Restrictions)
Set up and play a multi-player game of Calico using 
the normal rules. The winner of the game will fill in 
a maximum of one circle in their column color if a 
matching Achievement was earned, and then fill in the 
next shape on their Achievement progress track (page 
10). Example: in a 3-player game you won with a score of 67 
points and you got a Rainbow Button. You’ve already earned 
Achievement points and have your name on the Achievements 
progress chart (page 10) on the green row. You may fill in 
a circle below in the green column on either the 65+ points 
row or the rainbow button row. You then mark your overall 
progress by filling in the next shape on the green row on the 
Achievements progress chart (page 10).
Set up and play a multi-player game of Calico following 
the normal rules, but apply one of these five rule 
restrictions. The winner of the game will fill in the circle 
of their color under the rule restriction that was used and 
then fill in the next shape on their Achievement progress 
track (page 10).
Each player starts the game with no Patch Tiles. Instead, on your turn, choose 1 tile 
from the market and place it onto your Quilt Board following the normal rules.
Collect no buttons
Collect no cats
Complete no design goals
Collect 2 of each cat
70+
80+
85+
65+
75+
9+
60+
Patch Tiles may only be placed next to 
previously placed Patch Tiles
Play without a hand of tiles. You may only use 
tiles from the market
Design Goal Tiles are worth 0 points unless 
they are completed with color and pattern
All Patch Tiles must be placed adjacent to a 
tile of the same color (may use borders)
All Patch Tiles must be placed adjacent to a 
tile of the same pattern (may use borders)
Achievements Normal Game key
x2
x2

ACHIEVEMENTS (Scenarios)
Scenarios can be played in solo or multi-player mode. Each of the 10 Scenarios will show you which Design 
Goal Tiles and Cat Scoring Tiles to play with and 2-6 objectives that must be completed to pass the Scenario. 
When playing solo, start with Scenario 1 and work your way up to Scenario 10. You may only fill in the 
Achievement point circle when you pass each Scenario. When playing multi-player, all players who successfully 
pass the Scenario may fill in their circle. Whenever you fill in a circle, you also fill in the next shape on your 
Achievement progress track (page 10). During setup when placing Design Goal Tiles onto your player board you 
may choose where to place them from the three designated spots.
Achievements Scenarios key
Scenario Level
Design Goal Tiles to be used
Cat Scoring Tiles to be used
Objective: End game points must be ≥
Objective: Gain a Rainbow Button
Objective: Gain one of each cat
Objective: Gain three of the same button
Objective: Complete a Design Goal Tile
(not necessarily the one directly below it)
Objective: Complete a Design Goal Tile using colors and patterns
(not necessarily the one directly below it)
Where you fill in a circle and gain an Achievement point when you complete the Scenario
J
I
1.
58+
2.
59+
J
72+
10.
I

6.
63+
4.
61+
5.
62+
7.
64+
3.
60+
8.
66+
9.
68+
72+
10.

Callie was born in 2019 on the same front porch as her 
feral cat momma, Jewel. Callie has four tabby brothers. 
While the plan was for the whole litter to be adopted, 
her human foster family could not part with them. 
Callie is the smallest of the bunch. She is little, but she 
is mighty and holds her own with her brothers! She 
is particularly close to her mom - they are frequently 
cuddled up together. Her funniest quirk is how much 
she loves to play in the sink. She purrs and squirms 
and flips around - being absolutely adorable. Callie’s 
greatest dream in life, after being a ship’s cat on a tuna 
boat, is to have her portrait painted by the legendary 
artist Beth Sobel.
CALLIE
Gwenivere has been the constant companion of her 
family since her adoption. Her slightly askew tuxedo 
print, small size, and forward-curled tail accentuate 
her uniqueness. She is a gentle and talkative character, 
with a wide vocabulary of chirps and purrs. Gwen 
often carries her favourite toys (a stuffed gerbil and 
an octopus on a string) in her mouth throughout the 
house crying for someone to play with her. She waits 
for hugs every day and is often found sleeping on her 
back in the sun with her paws held close to her chest. 
It’s not unusual to feel a tapping paw only to look 
down and see Gwen asking for attention.
GWENIVERE
Tibbit is a little tidbit. She loves chasing rainbows 
from crystals hanging in the sunlight and staring 
threateningly at fishies. She loves scratches and is 
yours with a creaky purr as long as you pet her (in 
any location or direction). The only wrong way to pet 
her is to stop, which promptly earns a scolding meow 
somewhere between a ribbit and a quack. Tibbit loves 
to get quite “involved” in board games.
TIBBIT
MEET THE CATS
Millie is a gentle soul who lives with her family, 
Joseph, Larissa, and Sammers. She is a long-haired 
calico cat with a kink in her tail. When she was first 
adopted, it was uncertain if she even had any claws 
because she never used them. She has always been 
a quiet and loving cat - eager to snuggle nearby and 
greet you in the morning. Every few weeks she loves 
picking out a new spot to sleep. Some of her favorite 
resting positions include sitting with her face as close 
as possible to objects like walls or furniture.
MILLE
Coconut was abandoned at a young age and spent some 
time as a street cat in Southern New Jersey. When 
Chris met him at his brother’s house, he knew he had 
to give Coconut the home he deserved. Coconut (who 
was named by Chris’s niece, Birdy) is the most friendly 
cat ever. He tolerates other cats (including his brothers 
Frito, Kline, and Gaius and his tiny sister, Lola), and 
has a distinctive nose scar to prove his prowess in cat 
battle. He loves belly nuzzles, chin scratches, and nose 
boops, as well as long naps on various surfaces, and is a 
catnip fiend. Coconut is the very best cat in the world 
and is honored to be part of Calico. 
COCONUT
Cira joined her family in Norway after her breeder 
was unable to keep her. She was a timid, but social 
and playful cat. Some of her favourite toys were string 
and socks. Cira was a real traveller, accompanying 
the family on boat trips in northern Europe every 
summer. Her favorite stolen snacks were shrimp and 
chicken nuggets. Her family loved her very much and 
she was a great healing and comforting presence to 
them including snuggling up under the duvet in the 
morning before they woke up. One of her family 
members, Alse considers Cira to be one of the best 
friends he’s ever had.
CIRA

Tecolote was born and adopted in 2008. He lives in 
Southern California with his younger brother Merlin. 
He likes to help play board games by jumping into 
the middle of the table after you’re a few rounds in. 
Surprisingly, he doesn’t care for the boxes, he would 
rather lay on the game board. His favorite holiday is 
Thanksgiving; he’s not shy about asking for turkey. 
He loves to snuggle and follow you around waiting 
to jump on your lap. You’ll know he considers you a 
friend when he gives you a head bump. Tecolote is 
always sweet and loving.
TECOLOTE
Almond was adopted from a kill shelter in Long 
Island, NY. She had been named Stardust, which 
didn’t fit her mellow, cuddly nature. After much 
discussion she was renamed Almond - because the 
joke is that her parents went nuts trying to name her. 
Almond is the sweetest and most people-friendly cat 
they had ever met. She loves good belly rubs. She 
greets her parents at the door when they come home 
from work and checks on them before bedtime to 
make sure they get a good night’s sleep. Her human 
parents hope Calico players enjoy Almond’s company 
when they play the game.
ALMOND
Luna was found in July 2007 with a family of strays. 
The plan was to find them all homes, but Luna was a 
keeper. I was going through a breakup at the time and 
Luna was very comforting. My parents saw this and 
let me keep her. She was shy, but she loved to cuddle. 
She was especially drawn to cuddling with my belly 
during my pregnancies. After my grandmother died, 
she sat with me and let me hug her while I cried. She 
always seemed to know when I needed someone to 
snuggle. Luna passed away in June 2018. I am glad 
for the time we had and will forever miss cuddling 
with her.
*Luna is included as a Kickstarter promo cat.
LUNA
Leo, a sophisticated and dapper gentleman, helped his 
human mature from teenager to adult while having 
many exciting adventures. Leo’s home includes four 
canine brothers, a bird, countless betta fish, and two 
feline sisters. His laid-back attitude makes it possible 
for all of them to live together without the usual species 
divide. He patiently trains his sisters that french fries 
are delicious, that headbutting the dogs shows your 
love, and that mischievously working together leads to 
great rewards. Leo is the most accepting, loving and 
intelligent best friend that a human could ever ask for. 
While “16 going on 17” his family looks forward to 
spending many more years with him. 
LEO
Rumi lives in rainy Portland, Oregon and loves to 
meet new people, drink from faucets, and explore the 
backyard. On sunny days Rumi can be found sprawled 
out by a window soaking up the sunlight; on cloudy 
days, curled up on your lap. After he and I moved from 
a downtown apartment to a house on the east side of 
town, I was struck with new inspiration in the form 
of cat portraits. Rumi became my photographic muse 
during those first couple years as we acclimated to the 
new surroundings. 
RUMI
When Shop Cat, “Shoppy” was rescued by Austin Pets 
Alive!, he was deaf and FIV-positive, with only 2 teeth 
and 1.5 ears. After he was adopted, Shoppy became a 
spokescat for adoptions of senior and specially-abled 
cats. His Instagram account raises money to support 
local feral cat care. Shoppy loved people. He was very 
smart and learned how to sit and high-five for treats. 
He was also known as Cowboy Legs, because of his 
trademark bow-legged stance (and because he always 
packed his six-shooter). See @realshopcat on IG.
*Shop Cat is included as a Kickstarter promo cat.
SHOP CAT

The Flatout Games CoLab for Calico is:
Molly Johnson - art direction, administration, marketing
David Iezzi - development, logistics
Dylan Mangini - graphic design, marketing, development
Robert Melvin - development, administration, logistics
Kevin Russ - design, graphic design, development, marketing
Shawn Stankewich - project management, production, development, marketing
AEG Credits:
Nicolas Bongiu - director of projects
David Lepore - production
We would like to thank these friends for their playtesting and support of Calico:
Marlene Arenivar, Joseph Z. Chen, Jeremy Davis, Gates Dowd, Randy Flynn, Sarah Graybill, Steph Hodge, 
Christian Kang, Emma Larkins, Chad Martinell, Jan Martinell, Tony Miller, Robert Newton, Jonny Pac, 
Sarah Reed, Will Reed, Dawn Russ, John Shulters, Taylor Shuss, Beth Sobel, Cody Thompson, Samantha 
Vellucci, John Zinser, Blue Highway Games, Playtest Northwest, Seattle Area Tabletop Designers, and 
Zephyr Workshop
Flatout Games would like to express immense gratitude to these Calico Founders
whose early support helped make this game possible: 
Marleen Arenivar, Justin Bird, Karen Bouldin, Chad Martinell, Kelly Miller, and Shelley Shaw-Weldon
Any questions, contact: customerservice@alderac.com www.alderac.com/calico
© 2020 Alderac Entertainment Group.
2505 Anthem Village Dr. Suite E-521 
Henderson, NV 89052 USA
All rights reserved. Printed in China.
Warning: Choking Hazard! Not for use 
by children under 3 years of age.
WWW.FLATOUT.GAMES
Follow us @flatoutgames
Love CALICO? 
Please #calicogame
In early 2019, Flatout Games opened its doors to create the Flatout Games CoLab. 
The CoLab is an opportunity for the founding members of Flatout Games to team 
up with awesome folks in the board game industry and make cool things together. 
Our approach is to build the best possible experiences by involving everyone 
in the entire process. We strive to build passion and excitement in each of our 
collaborators through shared efforts and shared profits. This CoLab publication 
of Calico is a passion project of everyone involved, and we are all part of an 
interconnected team - we take risks and are rewarded together.