CANDY LAND is a game of bright colors 
and pretty pictures made especially for 
little folks, many of whom are too young to 
read. It also includes features which make 
it an interesting game for older children.
THE OBJECT OF THE GAME is to travel through 
“Candy Land” along the path of colored 
spaces. The moves are made according 
to colored squares or picture cards drawn 
by the players.
TO START THE GAME, shuffle the cards well. 
Place them in a pile face down within 
easy reach of all players. The youngest 
child should play first. They draw the top 
card from the pile and move from “Start” 
to the first matching colored space along 
the path. Other players follow in turn.
All players observe these simple rules:
1.	 Each player is represented by a 
	
different colored playing piece.
2.	 All players begin at the “Start” arrow.
3.	 They travel in the direction of the 
	
“Mileage” signs.
4.	 When a color card is drawn, the player 
	
moves along the path to the next 
	
space that matches the square on that
	
card. If the card has two colored 
	
squares on it, the player moves along 
	
the path to the second space that 
	
matches it.
5.	 When a picture card is drawn, as the
	
“Gingerbread Cookie” etc., the player
	
moves to the space matching that
	
picture. This may send the player
	
ahead or back along the path 
	
(an exception to rule No. 3). The player
	
proceeds from the picture space on their
	
next turn.
6.	 Players 
take 
advantage 
of 
the 
	
“MOUNTAIN PASS” and “RAINBOW
	
TRAIL” only when they stop exactly on
	
the spaces at the beginning of these
	
short cuts. The player moves immedi-
	
ately to the other end of the path and 	
	
proceeds from there on their next turn.
7.	 Players must follow the directions on
	
the board regarding the “CHERRY PIT-
	
FALLS” and the “MOLASSES SWAMP.”
Note: Drawing a single or double card of 
the color wanted by that player, allows 
them to move.
8.	 Two or more players may occupy the 
	
same space.
9.	 “HOME” is reached by landing on the
	
last blue space or drawing a card that
	
would take the player beyond that
	
space if the path continued.
10.	If all of the cards are used and the 
	
game is not finished, reshuffle them
	
and use the pile over again.
WINNING THE GAME
THE FIRST PLAYER TO REACH “HOME” WINS 
THE GAME.
C A N D Y L A N D
®
A Sweet Little Game for Sweet Little Folks
FOR 2-4 PLAYERS, AGES 3 AND UP

Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan St., Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923
1-800-664-7788 EXT 114
wmoves@winning-moves.com
Contact us at:
HASBRO GAMING, its logo, CANDY LAND and all related characters are trademarks of Hasbro and are used with permission. © 2022 Hasbro. 
All Rights Reserved. Licensed by Hasbro. WINNING MOVES, WINNING MOVES GAMES, and CLASSIC, RETRO, COOL, & FUN, and Logos thereof, 
are registered trademarks of Winning Moves Inc. © 2022 Winning Moves Inc. 75 Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923 USA. 
Colors and parts may vary. Made in China.
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and 
compliance please visit http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
ITEM# 1189
About the CANDY LAND
® Game
For decades, millions of “sweet little folks” have played this delightful childhood 
game. Adults fondly remember its “sweet fun” and happily see to it that the 
next generation carries on the experience.
	
But where did CANDY LAND come from?
Would you believe, a hospital?
	
	
Eleanor Abbott originated the game while a patient in a San Diego hospital back in 1948. 
She was a retired schoolteacher afflicted with polio, which typically attacked children in her 
era.
	
While hospitalized, Eleanor saw many children who were contending with this illness. To 
help cheer them, she created a fantasy game where players traveled through a land of 
candy (“Candy Land”) from Start to Home. The places encountered along the colorful path 
were all named after delectable treats. Who wouldn’t love to dream of visiting a land with 
Gumdrop Mountains, Peppermint Stick Forests and Ice Cream Float Seas? 
	
The following year, Eleanor was encouraged to submit her game to the Milton Bradley 
Company, one of the nation’s largest game firms. Her sketches intrigued the firm’s 
executives.
	
School supplies were Milton Bradley’s main products at that time. However, their game 
business was growing and they decided to give the Candy Land game a try. To the surprise 
of many, Candy Land became a best seller and continues as one of the world’s most popular 
children’s games, all these years later!
	
It turns out that a journey through a candy-covered countryside was just what “the doctor 
ordered” and youngsters everywhere delighted in playing the game. Once Milton Bradley 
realized the staying power of their hit, the game was made even more charming with the 
introduction of colorful “gingerbread” movers. This is the version, reissued, you now hold in 
your hands!
	
Eleanor Abbott donated a large amount of her royalties to buy school supplies and 
equipment for “her kids” because she never forgot where her idea for Candy Land 
originated. 
Here’s to Candy Land, its fond memories, and the many more to come! 
King Kandy 
circa 2002
®