COMPONENTS
• 1 Game Board
• 48 Wooden Pieces (4 figures, 40 victory point cubes, 4 round disks)
• 48 Exploration Tiles
• 4 Character Boards
• 12 Potion Tiles
• 8 Equipment Markers
• 4 Endurance Markers
• 16 Experience Markers
• 90 Resource and Ingredient Cards
• 29 Movement Cards
• 22 Adventure Cards
• 8 Character Cards
• 1 Wooden Die
• 2 Card Holders
• 1 Shuffle Cards Board
GAME SET UP
The Game Board:
Place the board in the middle of the table. There is a
description of the board on the next page.
Place the Exploration Tiles:
Turn all the hexagonal tiles face down (so the side with the number is up) and
sort them by color. If there are four players, all the tiles are used. If there are
only three players, remove all the tiles with the number “4,” and remove all the
“3” and “4” tiles if there are only 2 players (place the extra tiles back in the
box). 
Mix the remaining tiles fully. Place them
(still face down) on the matching spaces
on the board. Make sure that each tile is
placed on a space on the board that
matches both color and number with what
is on the tile.
Take Your Playing Pieces:
Choose a color and take the
matching wooden pieces. You
should have 10 victory point
markers (cubes), 1 destination token (disk), and one adventurer
(figure). Place all the adventurer figures in the village at the center
of the board. Place all your other pieces in front of you.
Deal the Character Cards:
Take all four female character cards and mix them
thoroughly. Give one of these cards to each player.
Each character has both a male and female version.
Both are identical. The name of the matching male character is shown in
parentheses on the female character card. If you want, you may exchange your
female character card for the equivalent male character card or vice versa. 
Sort the Resource and Ingredient Cards: Sort the resource and ingredient cards
by type. Put the three resources (ore, hide, and lumber) in one card holder and
the three ingredients (herbs, honey, and mushrooms) in the other holder. Place
both holders near the game board. Give each player 1 “lumber” card to
start the game with. During the game, you will hold all of your resource
and ingredient cards in your hand, secret
from the other players.
Prepare the Adventure Cards: Sort the
adventure cards by the number on the
back. Shuffle each of the three decks
separately face down. Place the “3” stack
on the table, then place the “2” stack on top of it.
Finally, place the “1” stack on top of the “2”
cards. Place the completed stack near the
board. Turn the top three cards face up and
place them in a row next to the stack.
Only the sun warms your bare skin, but at least you are alive, washed ashore on the coast of the island Catan. All your belongings were on the ship, which
sank offshore in a storm. Other settlers had better luck—their ships defied the storm and they reached the shore with their goods intact. Within a few years,
these settlers will develop a modest life here. Two days walk inland a small village has developed. The few sheep that survived the journey have grown into
small herds in the fields full of grain. During this early time you helped where you could, and you have learned the skills you need to smith weapons, build
chests to furnish rooms, and make window coverings from hide. Now you want to raise your own herd and own the roof over your head. Perhaps you will
even sow your own grain field. No problem! Head out for exciting adventures on Catan and satisfy the needs of the other settlers in the village. Candamir,
Osmund, and Jared will happily supply you with the seeds and sheep, and help you build your own house in exchange for your help with their needs.
Suggestions For Learning the Game:
(1) Read these rules to learn the basics of the game, or learn from Professor Easy's interactive introduction on the web.
(2) Teach the other players how to play.
(3) If a question comes up during the game, the index on the back page of these rules will help you find all the answers you need.
- 1 - 
Stone
Hide
Timber
Honey
Herbs
Resources
Adventurer
Destination
Marker
10 VP Markers
Ingredients
Would
you like
to learn
how to play
“Candamir”
right away? 
Then visit
www.profeasy.com
and join an interactive
game with
Marlene,
Vicky, and
Siegfried.
—Prof. Easy
Mushroom

Ready the Movement Cards:
Shuffle the movement cards (with the green backs). Place
the pile face down on top of the “Shuffle Cards” board and
place it near the game board.
Also place the 8 pink-colored equipment markers near the
board .
Arrange Your Character Board:
Take one of the character boards and place it on the table in front of you.
Arrange your starting pieces as follows:
Your character card is placed in the large space in the center of your board
(A). Take a Brigitta's potion tile and place it in your Potions box at the top of
the board in the matching space (B)—with the side showing one potion up.
Take an endurance marker and place it in the space numbered “4” on your
endurance track (C). Take the following markers and place them near your
character board for use during the game: 3 purple experience markers (with
“1” on one side and “2” on the other), 1 purple experience marker (with “3”
and “4”), 1 healing potion tile, and 1 mead tile.
GAME OVERVIEW
The Needs of the Settlers
The village side of the board shows the houses of the settlers Jared, Osmund,
Candamir, and Brigitta. Each of these settlers has a “wish list” of goods
(swords, chests, and window coverings) and animals (cattle and goats) that he
or she needs. In order to succeed in the village, you will need to supply these
goods and animals to the settlers.
Who knows where you will find cattle
and goats? They are hidden on the
small hexagon tiles placed on the
board. You will also find raw materials
there: ore, lumber, and hides. You must
use these raw materials to create
desired goods. For example, you would
need 1 ore, 1 lumber, and 1 hide to
make a chest.
Your biggest challenge is to explore the
countryside of Catan and find the most valuable exploration tiles—with cattle,
goats, and resources. While you wander over Catan, you will encounter
adventures and random events. The
stronger, faster, more charismatic, and
skillful your character becomes, the easier
you will be able to overcome the dangers
you encounter and win valuable resources.
If you discover a goat or cattle, or you build
a desired good, then you can mark your
success by placing one of your victory point
cubes on a matching space in one of the
settlers' wish lists, always filling spaces in the highest empty space in a column.
The first player to place all 10 of his victory point cubes on the game
board is the winner!
The right side of the game board shows the landscape of the island Catan. The village of the settlers lies in the grassland. To the east stand the mountains.
From the mountains a river runs across the grassland and to the west edge of the board through the forest. In the illustration below, all of the spaces that the
river flows through are marked in blue.
The left side of the board shows the village. Next to each house is a chart showing which goods that home's owner desires. To the left of the board are shown
the two card holders with the resource and ingredient cards. To the right are the adventure cards, with three of them already turned face up. For clarity, the
hexagonal discovery tiles and the player figures are not shown in the illustration. 
- 2 - 
B
A
C
Experience Markers
Mead 
Osmund’s
Wish List
Cattle Found 
Chest Built 
Lumberjack Camp
Hunter Camp
Miner Camp
River Crossing
Forest
Village
Grassland
Mountains
Healing
Potion

YOUR CHARACTER’S ABILITIES
Basic Values
Your character has four abilities: Strength, Prowess (fighting skill), Agility, and
Charisma. At the beginning of the game, your score for each ability is only
equal to the Base value shown on your character card. During the game, you
can increase your ability scores by earning experience and/or finding
equipment. These improved skills are recorded on your character board.
Earning Experience
When your figure reaches an exploration tile that shows an
experience point, you can increase one of your abilities:
either place a purple experience marker with the “1” side up
on an empty experience box, or turn over an experience
marker you have already placed so the “2” side is facing up.
You only have 3 experience markers numbered “1” and “2,” so you will only be
able to improve 3 of your abilities by 1 or 2 points.
You also have 1 experience marker numbered “3” and “4.” You can
use this to increase an ability beyond +2. When
you earn an experience point, you may choose to
replace a marker showing “2” with your “3/4”
marker with the “3” face up. This will make your
“1/2” marker available for use with a different
ability. Later you can increase the ability one more
time by turning the “3” over to the “4” side. 
Note: You can upgrade to your “3/4” marker when you have at least 1
experience marker with the “2” showing in one of your experience boxes,
you do not have to use all three of your “1/2”
markers before you can use the “3/4” marker.
Equipment
If you land on an exploration tile that has a
picture of a shield, bear-tooth necklace, bow, or
boots on it, you discover some valuable
equipment! Place a pink equipment marker (with the number “2”) on the
equipment box bearing the
same (matching) picture.
Equipment always increases
an ability by 2 points.
Example of an experienced
character: This character
has a Prowess of 5.
Each character also has 2 individual skills to help them during the game. See
page 6 for a complete description of these skills.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each player rolls the die, and the player with the highest roll goes first.
On your turn, you may first trade (see page 6). Then you may perform one of
the two following actions:
(1) explore; or
(2) if your figure is in the village, you may “build and brew.”
After you finish your action for the turn, play passes to the player on your left
who begins the next turn.
(1) Exploration
A.
Prepare to Set Out: Limit on Resources and Ingredients
If your figure is in the village, you may begin exploring only if you have in your
possession 5 or fewer resource cards AND 5 or fewer ingredient cards. If you
have more than the maximum number of cards, and you decide not to “build
and brew,” you must discard down to 5 resources and 5 ingredients.
Important: The hand limit is separate for resources and ingredients. So,
for example, if you have 6 resource cards and 4 ingredient cards, you
would have to discard 1 resource card before you could begin exploring.
B.
Choose Your Destination
Now you select the goal of your exploration. If your goal token (the round
wooden disk) is not on the board, you may secretly look at any 2 face down
exploration tiles anywhere on the board and return them face down to their
original places. Then you may place your goal token on any exploration tile
that does not already have one on it (you do not have to choose a tile you just
examined). Once you have claimed a tile, no other player may take it from you.
Usually, you will try to reach your goal token by the shortest possible route, but
this is not required. You may make as many detours as you wish, and you may
actually be forced to from time to time.
C.
How to Move and How Far to Go
Movement: You will move your figure from square to square, always vertically
or horizontally (never diagonally). You may move into any space, even if it is
occupied by another player's figure or a goal token.
Distance: The maximum number of spaces you may move on
your turn is determined by your character's current endurance.
So, for example, if your character's endurance marker is on the
“3” space (as shown to the right), then you could only move
your figure up to 3 spaces that turn.
D.
The Movement Cards
To begin moving, take the deck of movement cards into your
hand. Do not examine them or change the order of the cards. 
1. Turn Over a Movement Card and Point it Towards the Board
Before you can move your figure to another space, you must turn over the top
card from the movement card deck and place it face up in front of you.
Important: The movement card must always be played so that the sky on
the card is pointed towards the board, no matter which side of the board
you are sitting on.
2. Move Your Figure
Now you must move your figure into one of the four
adjacent spaces.
3. Resolve Any Events or Adventures
After you move your figure, you must check if the
movement card you turned over shows an event in that
direction. If it does, then you have encountered
something during your travel (see “Events on the
Movement Cards” on page 5).
Example: (See the illustration on the right) If the
figure moves down (red arrow), she will have to
fight a bear, if it moves left (blue arrow), she will
find some valuable herbs. If it moves up (green
arrow) or to the right (green arrow), there would
be no event.
- 3 - 
Experience Box
Experience Point
Basic Value
Equipment Box
Individual Character Skills
Shield (2) + Experience (3) + base value (0) = 5

You will not always be able to go the direction you want to, if there is an event
in the way. For more on this, see “Your Way is Blocked” on page 5.
As soon as you reveal the “shuffle cards” board, the movement cards beneath
it are shuffled back together, a new movement deck is created, and you
continue your travels. When you have finished moving for the turn, the cards
you turned over are placed at the bottom of the movement deck.
E.
Ending Your Exploration
Your exploration ends when: 
• you have turned over a number of movement cards (and moved your figure
into a number of spaces) equal to your current endurance, or
• you have moved your figure to the space with your goal token.
If you did not reach your goal token: Your movement for the turn ends in
the space your figure is in. On your next turn, you may continue moving
towards your goal token.
If you reached your goal token: You…
• return your figure to the village space in the middle of the board,
• remove your goal token from the board and place it in front of you,
• take the exploration tile you moved to and place it face up in front of you.
Now you receive the reward shown on the
exploration tile:
• For each resource pictured on the tile,
take 1 matching resource card from the
tray.
• If the tile shows a goat or cattle,
place one of your victory point cubes
on the appropriate space of one of
the wish lists—always the empty
space closest to the top of the list.
• If an experience point or equipment is shown on the tile, mark the
improvements on your character board (see “Your Character's Abilities” on
page 3). If there are 3 or 4 players, some equipment appears twice in the
game. If you reach an exploration tile that shows a piece of equipment you
already own, you instead earn 1 experience point, and may increase an
ability of your choice. You may never have two of the
same piece of equipment.
Then you end your turn by placing the movement cards you
used face down to the bottom of the movement deck and
passing the whole deck to the player on your left.
(2) Building and Brewing
If your figure is in the village at the beginning of your turn, you may choose to
manufacture goods (build) and/or brew drinks. 
Important: You may not build and brew if your goal token is still on the
board, even if you ended your move on the village space (it is treated as
grassland in this case).
A.
Manufacturing Goods (Building)
Each wish list shows 1 or 2 columns of goods desired by that settler, in addition
to any goats or cattle. Each column lists 4
goods. Only the good in the highest open
space (without a victory point cube) is
currently desired. 
Since there are no “goods cards” for the
things you create, you cannot build items and
save them for later. You can only manufacture
goods if there is an open space at the top of
one of the wish lists for that item.
When you create a good, you simply pay the resource cost (return the cards to
the tray), and place one of your victory point cubes in the matching space. So,
you could build a chest for 1 x hide, 1 x ore, and 1 x lumber. A sword requires
2 x ore and 1 x lumber. And a window cover would be 2 x hide and 1 x lumber.
The costs for each type of good are shown above the village on the board.
If you have enough resources, you can build more than one item on the same
turn. These items could be given to the
same settler, or two different ones.
Example: 
(A) Right now Osmund wants:
1 sword (left column), 1 window
covering (second column), 1 cattle
(third column), and a goat (right
column). All these needs are the
highest open space in each column
(B) The blue player has paid the
resources to make a sword, and places
one of his victory point cubes on the
space with the sword. Now Osmund
wants (from left to right):
1 chest, 1 window covering, 1 cattle,
and 1 goat—but he no longer
wants a sword.
B.
Brew Drinks
In order to brew the different drinks, you will need ingredients: honey,
mushrooms, and herbs.
• For 1 mushroom and 1 herb, you can brew 1 of Brigitta's potions.
• For 1 honey and 1 mushroom, you can brew 1 healing potion.
• For 1 honey and 1 herb, you can brew 1 mead.
The brewing costs are shown at the top of your character board.
When you brew a drink, take the appropriate type of tile and place it in the
matching space on your character board with the side showing one drink face-
up. If you brew a second drink of the same type, turn the tile over to the side
showing 2 drinks. The effects of each type of drink are described on page 6.
C.
Rewards for Manufacturing Wanted Goods
When you place a victory point cube on a wish list, you receive an additional
reward.
• If you place a cube on Brigitta's list, she will reward you with 1 Brigitta's
potion and 1 mead. If you already have 2 drinks of that type, then there is no
additional reward.
• If you place a cube on Jared's list, he will give you a bag of seed. Osmund
will supply you with a sheep. Candamir will assist you in building part of your
new house.
Your rewards from Jared, Osmund, and Candamir are not represented by cards
or tiles. Instead, you can simply count the number of victory point cubes on
each settler's wish lists to see how many of each item you have earned. For
example, if you have 2 cubes on Jared's list, and 1 cube on Osmund's list, then
you have 2 bags of seed and 1 sheep.
D.
Special Victory Points
You can earn special victory points for having the most seeds, the most sheep,
or the largest house. If you are the first player to place a third victory point
cube on Jared's, Osmund's, or Candamir's wish list, then you get 1 special
victory point! The special victory point is marked by placing one of your cubes
in the matching box at the bottom of the village section of the board. 
But your special victory points are not safe! If another player has more victory
point cubes on that settler's wish list than you, then he has taken the special
victory point away (and replaces your cube with one of his own)!
- 4 - 
(A)
(B)
Sword
Chest
Window
Cover

Example:
The 
blue
player has placed his
third victory point cube
on Osmund's list, so he
places another cube on
the special victory box
for “most sheep.” On a
future turn, the orange
player 
succeeds 
in
placing her fourth cube
on Osmund's list—one
more than blue has! Blue
must remove his victory
point cube, and orange
may now place one of
hers in the box.
THE END OF THE GAME
When any player places his last victory point cube on the board, the game ends.
That player is the winner!
OTHER RULES
(1)
Exploration Details
• Events on the Movement Cards
Finding Ingredients
When you move your figure in a direction that shows an ingredient (on the
movement card), you may take the appropriate ingredient card from the tray. 
Important exception: If you already have 5 ingredient cards in your hand,
you cannot draw any more (see “Hand Limits” on page 6).
Hidden ingredients: Some ingredients are marked on the cards with parentheses.
You can only collect these ingredients if your character has the
“herbalist” skill (see page 7). 
Bears, Wolves, Snakes, and Candamir
If you move towards one of these events, you will have to test
one of your abilities. The ability you will have to test is shown
by its icon next to the picture of the animal or Candamir.
Resolving a Test
Roll the die. Add the result of the roll to your total
score for the ability you are testing. If the final score
is at least as high as the number shown on the
movement card, then you have succeeded!
Example: If this player moved towards
Candamir (to the left), he would have to test his
strength. He would succeed if the total of his
strength plus the die roll was at least 6. If he
moved towards the snake, he would have to test
agility and get a total score of at least 5.
Success and Failure
Success: If you succeed at a test, you may receive a reward! If you overcome
a bear with prowess, you may take up to 2 hides. If you successfully hunt a wolf
using agility, then you may take 1 hide if you wish. If you are able to help
Candamir fell trees (with a strength test), you may take a reward of 1 lumber,
if you want it. But, you can only take a reward if you have less than 5 resources
in hand (see “Hand Limits” on page 6). 
Failure: If you fail to match the target on a test, then you will immediately lose 1
or 2 endurance: move your endurance marker down 1 or 2 spaces. If you lose
endurance, and you already turned over enough movement cards (or more) to
match your new endurance, then your turn ends. But, if you have a healing potion,
you may drink it right away, which may allow you to make more moves (see
“Drinking Potions and Mead” on page 6). 
Important: Even if you fail a test, you still move your figure into the new space
you chose. If you still have endurance left, you can continue moving that turn.
Example: A player with 3 endurance turns over her second movement card
for the turn, and moves towards a bear. She is unable to beat the bear in the
prowess test, so her endurance drops to 1. Normally, this would be the end of
her turn, but she decides to drink a healing potion, which raises her
endurance back to 3 again. Now she can turn over another movement card.
The rewards and penalties for each type of event are shown at the bottom of your
character board.
• The “?”-The Adventure Cards
If you move in the direction of a question mark, you will have an “adventure.”
You must select one of the three face up adventure cards by the board and read
the title to the other players. Then you must test the ability shown on the card.
Just like other events, you must at least match the required number with the
sum of your ability score and the die roll.
Some adventure cards show two symbols. They require you to make two tests!
First you must pass the test for the first symbol, before you can attempt a test
against the second symbol. You only complete the adventure if you can pass
both tests.
Some adventure cards also show an ingredient or mead. You must pay the
shown ingredient or mead in order to attempt the adventure. If you do not have
the required item, then you must choose a different adventure.
If you succeed at all the tests shown on the adventure card, you receive the
reward shown. Then, place the adventure card in front of you and draw a
replacement from the deck and place it face up next to the other two adventure
cards.
If you fail to complete the adventure, the card
remains face up with the others. You also suffer any
penalty shown on the card, usually 1 or 2
endurance. If you fail one of the adventures that
required you to pay a mead or ingredient card, you
do not get to take the item back.
• The Hero of Catan
If you are the first player to successfully complete 3
adventures (you now have 3 adventure cards in front
of you), then you earn a special victory point, and may place a cube in the box
for the “Hero of Catan.” Of course, if another player completes more
adventures than you, then you must remove your cube from the hero box, and
that player places one instead.
• Your Way is Blocked
You may only move in the direction of an event or adventure if you have a
chance of overcoming the challenge there. 
Example: A player wants to move her figure north, but there is a bear
shown on the movement card in that direction with a challenge of “8.” She
can only move in that direction if her character's prowess score is at least
2, or if she is willing to use one of Brigitta's potions so she has a chance to
beat the bear if she rolls a “6” on the die.
The Edge of the Board: Of course you may not move in a direction that
would take your figure off the edge of the board. You must stay on the board
during your moves.
- 5 - 
Prowess
Strength
Agility
1. Gift of Herbs
2. Charisma Test
Test of Strength 
Test of Agility
Score Required for Success

• Endurance of “0” or “-1”
If your endurance drops to 0 or less while you are facing an event or adventure,
your current journey for the turn ends unless you can immediately drink a
healing potion. You may not use your special character skills to move any
further that turn. But, if you fell to endurance 0 or less after you moved to the
space your goal token was on, you still claim the exploration tile and any
reward on it before you return to the village. Either way, on your next turn, you
have two choices:
1. Drink 1 or 2 healing potions so that your endurance is again over 0. In this
case you can move normally, or choose to “build and brew” if you are in the
village.
2. Do nothing for the entire turn (neither moving nor “building and
brewing”) and raise your endurance back up to 4.
Note: You may also choose to forfeit your entire turn to raise your
endurance back up to 4 if your current endurance is 1, 2, or 3.
• Hand Limit While Moving
While you are moving, you may not have more than 5 resource cards and 5
ingredient cards in your hand. If you have the maximum number, you cannot
gain any more from events or adventures.
If you already have 4 resources, for example, and you defeat a bear, then you
would only receive 1 hide card (instead of the 2 you normally get for beating
a bear). You may not choose to discard another resource so you can take the
second hide.
However, if you reach your goal token and return to the village, you always get
to take the reward shown on the exploration tile, even if this brings your total
hand size to more than 5 resources.
The same rule applies to ingredient cards. If you already have 5 ingredients in
your hand, and you move in a direction that would normally earn you another,
you may not discard a card to make room for the new ingredient.
• The Lumberjack, Hunter, and Miner Camps
Instead of placing your goal token on an exploration tile, you may choose to
place it on one of the three camps (see the illustration of the board on page
2). If you move your figure
onto the camp you have
marked, then you return to
the village and take one of
the resource shown on the
camp space.
(2)
Trade
At the beginning of your turn, you may trade with other players or, make 3-for-
1 exchanges with the bank. It does not matter if your figure is in the village or
in the wilderness, you can trade either way.
Trade With Other Players
You may freely trade resources, ingredient cards, equipment, and potions with
the other players. You may not trade experience points or adventure cards you
have earned. Any exchange both players agree to is allowed. 
If you are not in the village, you may not accept any trade that would give you
more than 5 resources or ingredients (see “Hand Limit,” above).
3 : 1 Exchange
You may turn in 3 identical resources to take 1 other resource card from the tray.
Likewise, you can turn in 3 identical ingredient cards to take 1 other ingredient.
Example: A player returns 3 herb cards to the tray and takes 1 honey card
for himself.
You may not exchange 3 resources for 1 ingredient or vice versa. You can only
exchange resources for resources and ingredients for ingredients.
(3)
Drinking Potions and Mead
When you drink, you must turn in the matching tile to the supply, or turn a tile
showing 2 potions to the other side with 1 potion.
Brigitta’s Potion
You can drink one of Brigitta's potions before you roll the die for any test to
increase your total score for that ability by +2. You may not drink two potions
at once to get a +4 bonus. Only one potion can be used for
each test. If you use a drink for a roll against an adventure
card that requires 2 tests, then you only receive the bonus on
one of the rolls. If you want a +2 bonus on both rolls, then you
will have to drink 2 potions (one for each test). 
Healing Potion
You may drink 1 or 2 healing potions at any time. Each healing potion you
drink increases your current endurance by 2 levels. If your
endurance is “3” and you drink a healing potion, you will only
raise your endurance 1 point, because you can never have an
endurance higher than 4.
Mead
You may use 1 or 2 mead, but only at the end of your turn. Each mead you use
can cause other players to lose 1 endurance. Each player who
has as many victory point cubes on the board as you have, or
more, must lose 1 endurance. You do not lose any endurance
when you use mead. No player's endurance may ever fall below
-1.
(4)
Individual Character Skills
Each character has two special skills. One of these skills gives that character
the ability to move one space further at the end of the turn if that character
stops moving in a particular type of terrain. You may only use this bonus
movement if your current endurance is at least 1, however (see “Ending Your
Exploration” on page 4).
Rider
If you end your movement for the turn in a grassland space (including a
grassland space with the river in it), you may make a bonus move: turn over 1
movement card and move your figure 1 more space. 
Climber
in a mountain space.
Forester
in a forest space (including forest spaces with the river in them). 
Swimmer
in any space that has the river in it.
- 6 - 
Lumberjack
Camp
Miner Camp
Hunter Camp

Herbalist
If your character has this skill, you can find hidden ingredients when you
explore. Hidden ingredients are marked with parentheses on the movement
cards.
Inga’s Friend
If you succeed in a “Catch Snake” test on a movement card, you may take any
1 ingredient card of your choice from the tray. 
Goods Trader
You may exchange 2 resource cards for 1 other resource of your choice once
at the beginning of each of your turns.
Scout
Before you place your goal token when you are in the village, you may examine
3 exploration tiles (instead of the usual 2).
Visit the Catan Adventures Website
www.universityofcatan.com
www.abenteuercatan.de
Please visit “The University of Catan” website and look for “Catan Adventures.” Learn how
to create your own custom Candamir characters! Like “Sebastian the Mountain Wolf,” you
can add your own flavor to the game. You can also keep up with the latest news about
“The Settlers of Catan” saga by Rebecca Gablé, as well as developments concerning the
Catan Adventures series.
Two Example Turns
The player has set his goal
token and is ready to set out
from the village. He draws the
top movement card (1). There
is a snake to the right, and he
decides it is too dangerous, so
he moves one space up and
takes an herb card.
The next movement card (2)
shows a bear to the bottom.
Feeling brave, he moves down
one space but rolls a “1.” Too
bad! His total prowess is only
5, which added to the roll only
makes 6. The bear has a value
of 8, so he cannot beat it and
he loses 2 endurance (A).
Normally, his turn would be
over, since he has drawn 2
movement cards and his
endurance is only 1. But, he
decides to drink a healing
potion (B) and his endurance
rises to 3 again (C). Now he
can turn over a third card and
move to the right (3).
Since his endurance is 3 and he
has turned over 3 cards, his
normal movement for the turn
has ended. Since his character
has the “swimmer” skill, and he
has ended his move in a river
space, he gets one bonus move.
He turns over the next card and
moves 1 space up. Now his turn
is done.
On his next turn, he continues
his journey by turning over a
movement card (1) and
moving to the right: another
bear! This time he rolls a “3.”
Combined with his prowess of
5, his score is 8, which is
enough to defeat the bear. He
takes 2 hides from the tray.
He turns over the next
movement card (2). He moves
to the right and must face a
snake. He uses his Brigitta's
potion, returning the tile to the
supply (D) and rolls a “4.” His
agility is only 1, and combined
with the potion his total score
is only a 7. Not enough to
defeat the snake. So, he loses a
point of endurance. Since he
has reached his goal token, he
returns his figure to the village
and takes the exploration tile.
- 7 - 
B
A
C
D

Topic
Page
Components
Game Set Up
Game Overview
Your Character’s Abilities
— Basic Values
— Earning Experience
— Equipment
Sequence of Play
(1) Exploration
A. Prepare to Set Out: Limit on Resources and Ingredients 3
B. Choose Your Destination
C. How to Move and How Far to Go
D. The Movement Cards
E. Ending Your Exploration
— If You Did Not Reach Your Goal Token
— If You Reached Your Goal Token
(2) Building and Brewing
A. Manufacturing Goods (Building)
B. Brew Drinks
C. Rewards for Manufacturing Wanted Goods
D. Special Victory Points
The End of the Game
Other Rules
(1) Exploration Details
• Events on the Movement Cards
— Finding Ingredients
— Bears, Wolves, Snakes, and Candamir
— Resolving a Test
— Success and Failure
• The “?”-The Adventure Cards
• The Hero of Catan
• Your Way is Blocked
• Endurance of “0” or “-1”
• Hand Limit While Moving
• The Lumberjack, Hunter, and Miner Camps
(2) Trade
— Trade With the Other Players
— 3:1 Exchange
(3) Drinking Potions and Mead
— Brigitta’s Potion
— Healing Potion
— Mead
(4) Individual Character Skills
• Rider, Climber, Forester, Swimmer
• Herbalist, Inga’s Friend, Goods Trader, Scout
Zielkärtchen mit Rückseite „2“
“Candamir: The First Settlers” is the first
offering in the “Catan Adventures” game
series. The setting and characters are
based on the vision of Klaus Teuber and
the novel “The Settlers of Catan,” written
by Rebecca Gablé and set in a time and
place familiar to the Atlantic adventurers
of the year 850. Look for an English-
language translation of this splendid tale
in your local bookshop soon.
- 8 - 
Credits
Game Design:
Klaus Teuber www.klausteuber.de
Licensor:
Catan GmbH
www.catan.com
Artwork:
Tanja Donner
Graphics: 
Fine Tuning
Development:
TM-Spiele
Copyright © 2004, 2005 Catan GmbH. Candamir, Catan, Catan Adventures, and
The Settlers of Catan are trademarks of Catan GmbH. All rights reserved.
MADE IN GERMANY
Published by MAYFAIR GAMES, INC., Skokie, IL USA. Web: www.mayfairgames.com
English Language Translation: Guido Teuber, William Niebling.
English Rules Development: Guido Teuber, William Niebling, S. Coleman Charlton,
Robert Carty, Will Niebling, and Pete Fenlon.
English Production: Pete Fenlon.
Special Thanks: The designer would like to thank Benjamin, Claudia and Guido Teuber,
Emily Johnson-Teuber, Arnd Beenen, Reiner Müller, Wolfgang Lüdtke, Fritz Gruber, Peter
Neugebauer, Sebastian Rapp and Martha Igelspacher. The designer and publishers also
thank Peter Gustav Bartschat, Petra and Oliver Sack, and Marc Ehrich.
Check out www.catanonline.com and see how you can play
“The Settlers of Catan” online with friends
and other Catan enthusiasts from around the
world. Download the computer game for
challenging solo play at home or on the go.
®
Exploration Tiles for 2-Player Game
Exploration Tiles for 3-Player Game
Exploration Tiles for 4-Player Game