■GAME OVERVIEW
In CAPTAIN SONAR, two teams operate opposing submarines battling for control of the ocean’s depths. Each 
teammate has his own station and responsibilities aboard the vessel. The players will have to coordinate and 
communicate effectively to survive.
IMPORTANT: There are two different ways to play: real-time mode and turn-by-turn mode. For a first game, or 
if you are playing in a noisy environment, we suggest you play the turn-by-turn mode. However, the real-time 
mode will guarantee that you get the stress and adrenaline rush of a real submarine duel!
■WINNING THE GAME
The first team whose submarine suffers 4 damage loses the game. The surviving team wins! 
Some advanced scenarios contain additional objectives or replacement objectives that the teams must com-
plete in order to win the game.
■GAME SETUP
1 • Place both screens in the center of the table end-to-end n.
2 • Choose a scenario (see page 8). Each Captain o and Radio Operator p takes the corresponding sheet.
3 • When playing in real-time mode, players use the dark side of their sheet. In turn-by-turn mode, players use 
the light side.
4 • Each team sits on a different side of the central screens, with 
players sitting in the order shown in the 
diagram. 
5 • Each First Mate q and Engi-
neer r takes a corresponding 
sheet. 
6 • Each Radio Operator takes 
a transparent sheet s.
7 • Finally, each player 
takes an erasable 
marker pen.
■COMPONENTS
• 2 sets of 12 role sheets
(1 for each team, yellow and blue)
Each sheet is two-sided: the light side is used 
for turn-by-turn mode, while the dark side is 
used for real-time mode.
For each team:
• 1 First Mate sheet
• 1 Engineer sheet
• 5 Captain sheets (1 for each scenario)
• 5 Radio Operator sheets (1 for each scenario)
• 2 transparent sheets for the Radio Operators
• 8 erasable marker pens
• 2 screens
■TEAM LINEUP
• 8 players: 2 teams of 4
• 7 players: 1 team of 4 and 1 team of 3
• 6 players: 2 teams of 3
• 5 players: 1 team of 3 and 1 team of 2
• 4 players: 2 teams of 2
• 3 players: 1 team of 2 and 1 player alone
• 2 players: 2 players alone
In a 2- or 3-player game, players must use 
turn-by-turn mode, as one player will need 
more time to manage all four roles by him-
self. 
ROLE ASSIGNMENTS DEPENDING ON 
THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Teams 
of 
4: 
Each 
player 
plays 
a 
different role.
Teams of 3: One player plays both the Cap-
tain and First Mate roles.
Teams of 2: One player plays the Captain, 
First Mate, and Engineer roles.
Under water, no one can hear you scream!
The year is 2048. A new economic war is raging. Rare earth has become a key element 
in the construction of advanced new machinery, and a major economic force around 
the world.
Private companies are arming the latest prototype submarines to dive into the world’s 
depths in search of rare earth. Under the peaceful surface of the sea, a silent war is 
being fought with new and unstable technology.
You are part of a team of elite officers in command of a state-of-the-art submarine.
To beat the enemy, you must cooperate with your teammates. Only the team who best 
communicates and works together will survive the encounter... 
An immersive 
cooperative game 
for 2 to 8 players, 
ages 12 and up.
Note: Throughout this 
document, 
male 
pro-
nouns are used for the sake 
of simplicity and readabil-
ity. In each instance, the rules 
are meant to include players 
of any gender.
© 2016 Matagot
A game by Roberto Fraga 
and Yohan Lemonnier
Artwork by Ervin and Sabrina 
Tobal
Captain
Captain
Engineer
Engineer
n
o
o
p
p
n
r
q
r
q
s
s
NOTE
Each sheet has a space for 
the player’s name and the 
name of the submarine 
(team name).
Radio Operator
First Mate
Radio Operator
First Mate
first name
name of the 
submarine

■THE CAPTAIN
The Captain is the leader of the team, responsi-
ble for guiding the submarine and for coordinat-
ing the team members.
At the beginning of the game, the Captain draws an "X" on the sea space of his 
choice to determine the starting position of his submarine. This is not shown to 
the enemy team.
Then both Captains shout “DIVE” to signal the start of the game. Each captain 
announces the course of his submarine and draws the route on the map on his 
sheet. In turn-by-turn mode, randomly determine a team to take the first turn.
❱❱ANNOUNCING A COURSE
The Captain can move his submarine one space at a time in one of four direc-
tions: north, south, east, or west.
He must announce his course loudly and clearly so that all players can hear it. The 
announcement should be phrased as “HEAD NORTH/SOUTH/EAST/WEST.”
• REAL-TIME MODE:
Each Captain announces his course at the pace of his choice.
• TURN-BY-TURN MODE:
The Captains alternate announcing a course, allowing as much time as neces-
sary for all players to complete their tasks.
IMPORTANT: In both game modes, the Captain must wait for the First Mate 
and the Engineer to perform their tasks and announce “OK” before announc-
ing a new course (see The First Mate and The Engineer, page 3).
• A submarine cannot cross or move along its own previous route (i.e. move 
into a space where a line is already drawn).
• A submarine cannot move across an island or into a space with its own mine 
(see Dropping a Mine, page 6).
• The Captain can erase his route only by surfacing (see Surfacing, page 5).
❱❱BLACKOUT!
If the Captain cannot announce a course due to islands, mines or the submarine’s 
route, he MUST IMMEDIATELY SURFACE (see page 5).
■THE RADIO OPERATOR
The Radio Operator is the eyes and ears of the 
team. He is responsible for tracking the enemy 
submarine by listening to the enemy Captain’s 
announcements.
Each time the enemy Captain announces a course, the Radio Operator draws 
it on his transparent sheet (beginning anywhere, since he does not know the 
enemy’s starting location).
By sliding his transparent sheet around his map, the Radio Operator will be able 
to estimate the enemy submarine’s position, bearing in mind that the enemy 
cannot cross islands or its own route.
The more the Radio Operator is able to listen to the enemy Captain, the more 
easily he will be able to determine the enemy’s route and position. He will need 
to regularly update his Captain with information on the possible location of the 
enemy.
The Radio Operator will be able to narrow the enemy’s position down further 
with the help of drones and sonar, which will be activated by the Captain or the 
First Mate (see The First Mate, page 3, and Activating Systems, page 6).
THE FOUR DIFFERENT ROLES ABOAR
THE FOUR DIFFERENT ROLES ABOAR
• The Captain should regularly check with his Radio Operator to get an estimate of 
the enemy’s position.
• The Captain should not announce his courses too quickly, so that his teammates 
have time to react and perform their tasks.
• To avoid drawing outside of the transparent sheet, try to start in the middle of the 
sheet at the beginning of the game.
• If the route goes outside of the transparent sheet, or if you become lost, erase 
everything and start over. 
The Radio Operator knows that the route he has drawn is not possible since 
it crosses an island. He will need to continue sliding his transparent sheet 
until he finds a possible position for the enemy’s submarine.
HEAD NORTH!
HEAD WEST!
HEAD NORTH!
The Captain has given the following orders:

■THE FIRST MATE
The First Mate’s job is to advance the gauges to 
bring the submarine’s systems online. He alerts 
the Captain when the weapon, detection, and spe-
cial systems are ready to activate.
❱❱MANAGING THE GAUGES
Each time the Captain announces a 
course, the First mate marks an empty 
space on the gauge of his choice. When 
all spaces on a gauge are marked, the 
First Mate announces it loudly and 
clearly. For example, an announce-
ment of “MINE READY” lets the Captain 
know that he can drop a mine when he 
needs it.
When all spaces on a gauge are full, the 
system must be activated before the 
spaces can be marked again.
Only the Captain can activate the mine, torpedo, silence, and scenario 
systems. The drone and sonar systems can be activated by both the Captain and 
the First Mate (see Activating Systems, page 6).
❱❱DAMAGE
At the top of the First Mate’s sheet are four damage spaces representing the 4 
damage a submarine can sustain.
Each time the submarine suffers damage, 
the First Mate crosses out the leftmost 
empty space. If all 4 spaces are crossed out, the submarine is destroyed and its 
team loses the game.
IMPORTANT:
If you play with fewer than 8 players, a Captain might have to play the role of 
the First Mate as well (and maybe even of the Engineer). If this is the case, each 
time the Captain gives an order, he immediately marks a space on the gauge of 
his choice on the First Mate sheet (and a breakdown on the Engineer sheet if he 
is also playing that role).
■THE ENGINEER
The Engineer’s job is to track the breakdowns 
that occur on the submarine as the Captain an-
nounces courses. Some breakdowns will neutralize 
the submarine’s systems; others will damage the 
submarine.
Each time the Captain announces 
a course, the Engineer crosses 
out a symbol corresponding to 
the announced course (north, 
south, east, or west), signifying a 
breakdown. He can cross out any 
symbol in the Central Circuits or in 
the Reactor, as long as it is in the 
correct control panel.
❱❱SYSTEM BREAKDOWN
If at least one symbol corresponding to a system is crossed out, that system 
cannot be activated.
IMPORTANT! Each symbol corresponds to two systems.
	
	
	
	
MINE + TORPEDO	
DRONE + SONAR	
SILENCE + SCENARIO 
Before activating a system, the First Mate must verify with the Engineer that 
there are no breakdowns on that system.
RD THE SUBMARINE
RD THE SUBMARINE
TORPEDO 
READY!
Two of the First Mate’s systems are ready: a mine and a torpedo (which he 
just finished loading by marking the last space on the gauge).
The Captain announces "HEAD NORTH."	 
The Engineer must cross out a symbol of his choice in the North control panel. 
Here, it must be one of two yellow symbols in the Central Circuits or one of 
three symbols in the Reactor.
Weapon 
Detection 
Special 
CONTROL 
PANELS
Central 
Circuits
Reactor
HEAD 
NORTH!
No system can be activated since at least one symbol corresponding to 
each system is crossed out.
If the Captain wants to use a 
Mine or a Torpedo, he must first 
ask the Engineer to fix the two 
breakdowns on the red symbols 
. 
Submarine damage
Submarine profile 
(used to surface, 
see page 5)
Mine
West
 Rules reminder 
 (damage)
Rules reminder
(repairing)
North
South
East
Drone
Silence
Torpedo
Sonar
Scenario

❱❱RADIATION BREAKDOWNS
Radiation breakdowns have no effect unless ALL radiation symbols are 
crossed out or they contribute to a complete area breakdown (see 
Complete Area Breakdown, below).
When all radiation symbols are crossed out, the submarine suffers 1 damage. 
The Engineer announces “DAMAGE,” then erases ALL breakdowns from the 
submarine.
❱❱COMPLETE AREA BREAKDOWN
When all symbols in a single control panel have been crossed out (in both the 
Central Circuits and the Reactor), the submarine suffers 1 damage. The Engi-
neer announces “DAMAGE,” then erases ALL breakdowns from the submarine.
■REPAIRING
❱❱SELF-REPAIRING IN THE CENTRAL CIRCUITS
Symbols in the Central Circuits are linked in groups of four by an orange, yellow, 
or gray line called a circuit.
When all four symbols on a circuit are crossed out, they repair themselves; the 
Engineer erases those breakdowns.
Breakdowns in the Central Circuits can also be repaired by surfacing 
(see page 5).
❱❱REPAIRING THE REACTOR
Breakdowns in the Reactor can be repaired in two ways:
• When all radiation symbols have been crossed out, the submarine suffers 
1 damage. The Engineer announces “DAMAGE,” then erases ALL breakdowns 
• The best way to repair the Reactor is by surfacing (see page 5).
To prevent disaster due to breakdowns, the Engineer should inform the Captain 
when specific courses could be dangerous to the submarine.
DAMAGE!
DAMAGE!
The last radiation symbol has just been crossed out. The 
Engineer announces it by shouting "DAMAGE."
The Captain has given 
too many orders to head 
west and all symbols on 
the West control panel are 
crossed out. The Engineer 
announces it by shouting 
“DAMAGE.”
The First Mate crosses 
out one damage space 
on his sheet.
Then the Engineer erases all 
breakdowns from the submarine.
Then the Engi-
neer erases all 
breakdowns 
from the sub-
marine.
Three symbols have been crossed out on the yellow circuit (in the West 
control panel). If the Engineer can convince the Captain to head east, 
the yellow circuit can be completed and will self-repair.
There are numerous breakdowns in the Reactor. No system can be acti-
vated, and four of the six radiation symbols are crossed out. The sub-
marine should surface urgently to repair.
The First Mate crosses 
out one damage space 
on his sheet.

.
■SURFACING
Surfacing is an efficient way to repair the submarine and the only way to reset 
the route. Doing so will leave the submarine vulnerable for a short time, so sur-
facing should be undertaken with the utmost caution.
To surface, the Captain raises his fist and announces "SURFACE."
Then the Captain announces the submarine’s current sector to the enemy team.
The rules for surfacing vary depending on whether the game is being played in 
turn-by-turn or real-time mode:
❱❱TURN-BY-TURN
Instead of announcing a course, the Captain spends his turn announcing that 
he is surfacing, as described above. Then the Engineer erases ALL breakdowns 
The enemy team takes three turns in a row. If the team surfaces during those 
turns, any remaining turns are lost. Then the game resumes as normal.
❱❱REAL-TIME
As soon as the submarine’s sector is announced, repairs can begin:
1 • The Engineer begins securing the ship by drawing a line around one of the 
four sections of the submarine on his sheet, making sure to stay within the 
white outline. Then he writes his initials inside that section.
2 • He passes the sheet to a teammate, who does the same with another sec-
tion of the submarine and continues passing it on until all sections are secured 
(including all teammates’ initials). If there are fewer than four players on a team, 
some players will need to secure multiple sections.
3 • The Engineer takes the sheet and shows it to the enemy Engineer to confirm 
that no lines were drawn outside the white outline. If this is not the case, the 
team must start over.
4 • If the enemy Engineer confirms that all lines are drawn correctly, the Engi-
neer erases all lines around submarine sections, all initials, and ALL breakdowns 
5 • When this is complete, the Engineer announces “READY TO DIVE.” Then the 
Captain announces “DIVE” and play resumes as normal.
IMPORTANT:
While a team is surfaced and repairing, the enemy team continues playing.
Teammates on a surfaced submarine can use their marker pens only to secure 
the submarine.
In the meantime, the Captain resets his route by erasing the route on his sheet, 
keeping only the submarine’s current position and the positions of his mines 
(see Dropping a Mine, page 6).
Once again, communication is the key to success.
• The Engineer MUST inform the Captain of breakdowns. The Captain will be able 
to decide to surface when he thinks he is safe and far from the enemy (though only 
the Radio Operator can guarantee that!). This will allow for uninterrupted repairs 
and preparation for a new route.
• Surfacing when the enemy is nearby is risky, and can leave a submarine vulnera-
ble to a killing blow!
• Surfacing can also be used to cleverly lure the enemy into a minefield, which can 
be activated as soon as the submarine is back under water (see Dropping a Mine, 
page 6).
The Captain erases his old route (in red), keeping his 
position and the positions of his mines.
Attention, we 
are surfacing in 
Sector 6!
The Captain tells the enemy team in 
a loud and clear voice:
The Engineer, Roberto Fragga, has begun securing the submarine. 
He has drawn a line around one of the four sections of the submarine 
and written his initials. 
Each teammate will have to take the sheet and do the same.

When all spaces on a gauge are marked, the First Mate announces it to the Cap-
tain. The Captain can then activate that system at any time.
The First Mate can activate only the drone and sonar systems, while the 
Captain can activate any system.
To activate a system, the Captain or First Mate does the following:
1 • Confirm with the Engineer that there are no breakdowns affecting the 
system. If there are, they must be repaired before the system can be acti-
vated.
REMINDER: A system can be activated only if no symbol corresponding to the 
system has been crossed out.
2 • In real-time mode, announce “STOP” and raise a fist. All other players stop 
what they are doing and listen. In turn-by-turn mode, the Captain or First 
Mate can activate a system after each of his team’s course announcements.
3 • Announce a system to activate. For example, “I’M DROPPING A MINE.”
4 • Resolve the system activation (see below).
5 • Play resumes as normal.
A team cannot activate two systems in a row. The Captain MUST announce a 
course between two systems’ activation.
	
The Captain can launch a torpedo at a space one to four spaces away 
from his submarine (not diagonally).
The Captain announces the point of impact (for example, “TORPEDO LAUNCHED, 
IMPACT IN C6”), but does not draw the trajectory on his sheet. Then the First 
mate erases all marks on the torpedo gauge.
A torpedo impact has the same outcome as a triggered mine (see Dropping a 
Mine, to the right). Then play resumes as normal.
If a torpedo impacts in a space with a mine, the mine is destroyed; the Captain 
erases that mine from his sheet. 
A torpedo can damage the submarine that launched it!
The Captain draws an M (for "mine") on a space adjacent to his sub-
marine. The Captain cannot drop a mine in a space on his route (with 
a line drawn in it), and a submarine cannot move into a space with its own mine.
The Captain announces “MINE DROPPED” and the First Mate erases all marks 
on the mine gauge. Then play resumes as normal. The mine has no immediate 
effect.
The Captain can trigger a mine he previously dropped to damage 
nearby submarines. At any time, except while surfaced, the Captain can trigger 
a mine by raising a fist, announcing TRIGGERING A MINE,” and stating the mine’s 
location. For example, “TRIGGERING A MINE AT G7.”
The Captain can trigger a mine whether or not any spaces on the mine gauge 
are marked, and the First Mate does not erase any marks when a mine is trig-
gered. The mine gauge matters only when dropping a mine, not triggering one.
There are three possible outcomes of a triggered mine or torpedo impact:
1 • The enemy submarine is more than one space away from the mine or tor-
pedo impact:
The enemy Captain announces “ALL CLEAR” and play resumes as normal.
2 • The enemy submarine is located in a space adjacent to the mine or 
torpedo impact: 
The enemy Captain announces “INDIRECT HIT, ONE DAMAGE.” 
His First Mate crosses out the leftmost empty damage space on his sheet, then 
play resumes as normal.
3 • The enemy submarine is located on the same space as the mine or torpedo 
impact: 
The enemy Captain announces “DIRECT HIT, TWO DAMAGE.” 
His First Mate crosses out the two leftmost empty damage spaces on his sheet, 
then play resumes as normal.
A mine can damage the submarine that dropped it!
From C7, the Captain drops a mine in B7, an 
adjacent space.
Later in the game, the Captain triggers the 
mine in B7. The enemy submarine, located 
one space away from the mine (C6), takes an 
indirect hit and suffers 1 damage.
The Captain (in D3) launches a torpedo, which 
travels four spaces and impacts in G2. The 
enemy submarine, located in G2, takes a direct 
hit and suffers 2 damage.
ACTIVATING SYSTEMS
ACTIVATING SYSTEMS
LAUNCHING A TORPEDO
LAUNCHING A TORPEDO
DROPPING A MINE
DROPPING A MINE
TRIGGERING A MINE
TRIGGERING A MINE

Drones allow a team to narrow down the sectors in which the ene-
my’s submarine could be located (the map is divided into nine sectors 
in real-time mode and four sectors in turn-by-turn mode). When a teammate 
launches a drone:
• The teammate asks the enemy Captain if the enemy submarine is located in a 
particular sector. For example, “ARE YOU IN SECTOR 5?”
• The enemy Captain answers “YES” or “NO” truthfully. The First Mate erases all 
marks on the drone gauge, then play resumes as normal.
When a teammate activates sonar, he announces “ACTIVATING 
SONAR.” The enemy Captain announces two pieces of information about his 
submarine’s location. This can include the row, column, or sector in which the 
submarine is located. 
• One piece of information must be true, the other must be false.
• Each piece of information must be of a different type (row, column, or sector).
Then the First Mate erases all marks on the sonar gauge and play resumes as 
normal.
When the Captain activates silence, he announces “ACTIVATING 
SILENCE” and moves his submarine without announcing the route. 
• He can move the submarine up to four spaces in a straight line without cross-
ing an island or his own route.
• The Captain indicates to his team the direction they are moving by gesturing 
with his hand behind the screen. The First Mate marks an empty space on a 
gauge of his choice and the Engineer crosses out a symbol on his sheet cor-
responding to the indicated direction. The First Mate erases all marks on the 
silence gauge, then play resumes as normal.
This system is not used in every scenario. It’s function is determined 
by the scenario, which also indicates whether the gauge is considered to have 
four or six spaces.
The Captain launches 
a drone and asks if the 
enemy submarine is 
located in sector 4. The 
submarine is in sector 
7, so the enemy Captain 
answers “NO.”
GENERAL ADVICE
• The key to winning is good communication. If no one talks or no one listens, all 
hope is lost.
• A good Radio Operator makes a big difference. Finding and tracking the enemy 
submarine is vital.
WHEN ONE SUBMARINE HAS SUFFERED 4 DAMAGE, IT IS DESTROYED AND THE 
GAME ENDS. 
THE SURVIVING TEAM WINS THE GAME!
The Captain activates sonar. Unknown 
to him, the enemy submarine is in L14, 
in sector 9. 
The enemy Captain announces “WE ARE 
IN ROW L, SECTOR 6.” The first piece of 
information is true, the second is false.
The Captain activates silence. He announces “ACTIVATING SILENCE” and 
draws the route on his sheet.
END OF THE GAME
END OF THE GAME
LAUNCHING A DRONE
LAUNCHING A DRONE
ACTIVATING SONAR
ACTIVATING SONAR
ACTIVATING SILENCE
ACTIVATING SILENCE
ACTIVATING THE SCENARIO SYSTEM
ACTIVATING THE SCENARIO SYSTEM

■ALPHA MAP
Welcome officers. The time has come to 
put all that you learned at the academy 
to good use.
The area’s islands are small and numer-
ous. Maneuvering around them may 
prove difficult.
The islands will make the Radio Operator’s job easier, but they will also make 
it easier to run into the enemy submarine. Good luck.
■CHARLIE MAP
The open sea!
After weeks of fierce combat and tremen-
dous damage sustained on both sides, 
only two submarines remain operational. 
Eliminate the enemy to open the Road to 
the Great North, a submarine route that 
will lead you to oceanic plains trapped 
deep beneath the northern ice.
This battle should be fought only by experienced teams. The small islands and 
open water will put the Radio Operator to the test. Effective use of mines will 
be invaluable, and well-timed use of stealth could mean the difference between 
survival and defeat.
■DELTA MAP
Welcome to the Great North. You have 
navigated the Road, and your next 
battle will be fought below fifteen feet 
of solid ice.
In addition to managing your subma-
rine’s systems, you will need perfect 
coordination when it comes time to 
surface.
SPECIAL RULES:
If a submarine surfaces in a space other than an open water hole, it immedi-
ately suffers 1 damage before resolving the effect of surfacing (see Surfacing, 
page 5).
■BRAVO MAP
Welcome to the mining zone of the Eri-
atrides Trench.
Your goal is to eliminate the enemy’s 
submarine and clear the way for the 
deep digging team.
The Radio Operator will have a harder 
time tracking the enemy in the more 
open environment.
Drones and sonar will be particularly helpful in narrowing down the enemy’s 
position.
■ECHO MAP
Near the Deep-sea Trench of Scylla, 
Quantis Corp. and Archer Inc. once fought 
a bitter battle for control of Archer’s 
weapon depots. 
Amidst the wreckage of the undersea bat-
tlefield, some of Archer’s explosive ord-
nance remains active.
Your patrons have equipped you with a 
system designed to hack into Archer’s 
weapon software. Once activated, it wall allow you to bypass Archer’s security 
protocols and take control of the remaining mines.
SPECIAL RULES:
When all four spaces on the scenario system gauge are marked, the scenario 
system can be used to trigger an Archer mine. To do so, the Captain announces 
“TRIGGERING ARCHER MINE” and states the mine’s location.
A triggered Archer mine has the same outcome as a torpedo impact.
After an Archer mine is triggered, the First Mate erases all marks on the sce-
nario system gauge and both Captains cross out the mine on their sheets. A 
crossed out mine cannot be triggered.
SCENARIOS
SCENARIOS
FOR YOUR FIRST GAMES OF CAPTAIN SONAR, WE RECOMMEND PLAYING 
USING TURN-BY-TURN MODE AT LEAST ONCE AND PLAYING THESE SCENARIOS 
IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER:
When all four spaces on the scenario 
system gauge are marked, the Captain 
can trigger an Archer mine at any time 
by announcing “TRIGGERING ARCHER 
MINE AT C4.”