a G A M E C O M P O N E N T S A N D S E T U P
 
a O B J E C T O F T H E G A M E
A fast tactile game about a turbulent treasure hunt
 by Wolfgang Dirscherl and Manfred Reindl
for 2 - 4 players of 6 years and up.
Pirates ahoy! Captain Silver has a piratetastic challenge for you: All players act simultaneously and try to fumble for the wanted pirate items in their pirate pouches. As soon as a player 
feels a wanted item, they draw it quickly from their pouch, and put it on the game board. A player gains precious gold coins for any matching items or may set sail with their pirate ship to 
the Treasure Island in order to recover valuable treasures. But, beware: Any drawn items not matching the task are placed on the Volcano Island and must be reclaimed at high costs. 
Which of you junior pirates will have the proper “feeling”, thus having collected the most valuable treasures after three game rounds?
• 10 Treasure chests
 
• 4 Island cards
 
• 5 Volcano cards
• 64 Pirate items – 
16 items per player (two times eight items per color)
 
 
 
• 38 Gold coins 
• 4 Pirate ships
with bases – 
1 ship per player
 
• 4 Pirate pouches – 
1 pouch per player
• 1 Rules booklet
• 1 Double-sided Treasure Island game board
• 4 Double-sided ocean boards
• 1 Volcano Island game board
Wanted 
pirate items
Reward for correctly 
placed pirate items
Volcano Island = 
Storage space for incorrectly 
placed pirate items
Four 
small 
islands
Starting space for the pirate ships
Starting space for the pirate ships
Water space containing a gold coin
Water 
space 
contain-
ing a 
gold 
coin
Landing 
of the 
Treasure 
Island
Landings of the Treasure Island
AThe white arrows indicate the allowed direction of movement for the ships!
12x
26x

 
a S E Q U E N C E O F P L A Y
The game is played over three game rounds. During each game round, all players act simultaneously, trying to find the wanted pirate items. All players grab their pouch and shake it well. 
As soon as all players are ready, they call out "Pirates ahoy!" together, and the first game round starts!
 B Hints by Captain Silver: 
 L The players should sit down near the stretched 
sides of the Pirate World, so they can reach all 
spaces well in order to deposit their items.
 L Before your first game, all players should feel 
the items in their pouch as a test. 
2) Mix all treasure chests and 
stack five treasure chests face 
down on each of both storage 
spaces for treasure chests. 
 
Mix all island cards and 
stack them face down 
next to the Pirate World.
3) Mix the volcano cards and stack three of them face 
down next to the Pirate World. Remove the two 
remaining volcano cards from the game. 
 
Sort the gold coins and keep them handy for use as 
general supply.
1) Assemble the big Pirate World from the 
six game boards: 
 
The players agree on one side of the 
Treasure Island game board and 
arrange the four ocean boards next to 
it in any order they like and with any 
side up. Finally, they add the Volcano 
Island game board. 
 
The big Pirate World is complete now!
ANote: In a game with two players, 
the Pirate World will be made 
up of only three ocean boards. 
In that case, remove one 
ocean board from the game.
4) Each player receives a pirate pouch, three gold 
coins, one pirate ship, and the 16 pirate items of 
their chosen color. Place the ships on the starting 
space of the Treasure Island board. The players put 
their items into their pouch.
Simultaneously, and as fast as possible, all players try to feel for the wanted items shown 
on the four rows of islands, and take them out of their pouch, placing them on the boards. 
Each row starts with the first space next to the small island offshore from the volcano island. 
As soon as a player thinks they have found a wanted item inside their pouch, they take it 
out of the pouch and look at it. If it really matches a wanted item, the player hurries up to 
place it on the corresponding, unoccupied space. As of now, all players may deliver the 
wanted item of the next space in this row.
Start of the four rows of islands
Treasure Island 
game board
Four ocean 
boards
Volcano Island 
game board
At the start of the game, pirate items may be placed 
on these four spaces only.
Currently, pirate items may be placed on these four spaces.
End of the 
rows of 
islands

Important Rules: 
• All players feel simultaneously inside their pouch for wanted items, 
trying to find them as fast as possible.
• Only one item may be placed on each space. 
• When placing any item, no empty spaces may be skipped. 
 
• Once drawn from the pouch, an item may not be put back into it. If a player has drawn 
a mismatching item, the player must deposit it on the volcano island (this also applies if 
another player was faster placing a correct item).
• All players may feel inside their pouch with one hand only.
• Of course, nobody is allowed to have a look inside their pouch during the game!
End of a game round:
As soon as an item is placed on the last space of a single row, that player calls out aloud "Pirates stop!", and the current game round is finished. Any players 
still holding a drawn item are allowed to place it (if it is correct, otherwise it is placed on the Volcano Island). Subsequently, all players drop their pouch in 
front of them, and the evaluation of this game round takes place. 
The four rows of islands and all items in these rows are evaluated one after the other. First, reveal the top island card. This indicates the row where the evaluation 
will start. Check all items in this row, starting with the first space (next to Volcano Island). Return each evaluated item to its owner immediately.
The player may pick their 
treasure chest from any one 
of the two stacks.
Subsequently, the next island card is revealed and that row will be evaluated, etc.
The volcano cards:
After all four island rows have been dealt with, the Volcano Island is evaluated. First, reveal the top volcano card. For each 
item lying on the Volcano Island and that is shown on the card, the owner of that item must pay a penalty of one gold 
coin to the general supply. Finally, the volcano card is removed from the game.
In this example the players must pay one 
gold coin each for: Message in a bottle, 
wheel, parrot, treasure map, anchor. 
A
 Note: NO gold coins must be paid for 
any cannon, hand gun or saber.
Upper landing = 
upper treasure chest stack
Lower landing = 
lower treasure chest stack
 L For each correctly placed item its owner gains a reward, depending on the icons at that space:
 L In case an item does not match the wanted item of that space, that player must pay a penalty of 
one gold coin to the general supply.
When a player's ship passes a 
water space with a gold coin 
or ends its movement on such 
a space, the owner of that ship 
immediately receives a gold coin 
from the general supply.
Gold coin(s): 
The player receives the shown number of gold coins from the general supply, and keeps them in front of them.
When a player's ship passes a landing space or ends its movement on such a space, the owner of that ship 
immediately gains a treasure chest.
Depending on which Treasure Island board is used, the player may pick a treasure chest from the following stack:
When picking a treasure chest, the player takes the stack (or one of the stacks), secretly looks at all 
treasure chests and takes the one they want. The player keeps it face down in front of them. Then, the 
player returns the remaining treasure chests face down to their storage place on the Treasure Island.
Special spaces on the Treasure Island game boards:
 B Hint: A detailed example of a complete evaluation can be found on page 4.
Pirate ship(s): 
The player advances their pirate ship on the Treasure Island board as many spaces as shown, in clockwise direction. 
 
 
 
There is no limit to the number of ships on a single space.
• Gold coin containing spaces 
• Landing spaces
ANote: If player does not own any gold coins, they simply 
cannot pay the penalty. There are no further consequences. 
But that will happen very rarely, if at all!
A
r

 
a E X A M P L E O F A C O M P L E T E E V A L U A T I O N
 
a E N D O F T H E G A M E A N D W I N N E R
Example: 
Simon has collected 17 gold coins in front of him. Also, he has managed to get hold of two treasure chests, worth 5 and 3. 
Thus, his treasure chests are worth 8 points. Simon has a total of 25 points (17 + 8 = 25).
Second and third game round: 
All players reclaim their items and put them back into their pouch. Mix the island cards and again stack them face down next to the Pirate World. The pirate ships stay right where they are.
Again, all players call out "Pirates ahoy!" together, and the next game round starts! The sequence of play of the second and third game round follows the same rules as apply for the 
first game round. 
The game ends after the evaluation of the third game round is 
completely dealt with (i. e., the last volcano card has been revealed 
and evaluated). Each player counts their points: They simply add the 
value of their collected treasure chests and gold coins. Older players 
may help the younger ones to add their points. 
The player owning the most points is the winner of the game. In case 
of a tie for the most points the tied players share the victory.
1st island card: 
 : HS Lhh
o
 : HS L h
o
2nd island card:
 j
 
m
 : HS Lhhh
 i
 
3rd island card:
l
 : HS L h
 : HT L r
m
 : HS L fh
 
 
 : HS L h
4th island card:
 i
 
 : HS L fh
© Copyright 2017 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.
Volcano card:
 : H L r
 l
 : H L
 No effect
Interim result after the 1st game round:
H : 9 gold coins* 
H : 4 gold coins* + 1 treasure chest 
H : 8 gold coins* 
 
*including the 3 gold coins from the start