Carabande 
 
Produced by Goldsieber 
 
Translated by Frank Branham 
 
Note: this includes translations of all of the text. The basic sections are 
The care and feeding note about your track 
Part A: An overview 
Part B: (on back on part A) the basic rules 
Part C: Advanced and tournament rules 
 
Components 
 
6 straight track segments 
10 curve track segments 
6 short edge rails 
10 long edge rails 
8 discs in four different colors 
1 black obstacle disc 
1 sheet of stickers 
1 scoring pad with 100 sheets 
 
Important hints about caring for your game 
 
1.Make sure that you always lay out the track on an even surface. Otherwise, your discs will be 
affected by the junctions of the track, and may 
fly out of the track. Playing on carpet, or on a table made of multiple sections will usually not 
work. 
2.The track pieces are made of MD-F (compressed wood fiber), a material perfect for this game. 
Make sure that you do not damage the track, 
while assembling your raceway. The edge rails should remain attached to the track segments. 
This means that the parts will not fit back in 
the box, however. 
 
Carabande Game Overview 
 
 
First read through this overview, then through the game rules. 
 
1.The basic idea of the game is to flick the colored discs around the racetrack. See Picture 1 for 
the basic flipping technique. 
2.Before each race, you can assemble the track in many ways. The edge rails are particularly 
important in their placing. One should go into 
each track piece. 
3.Whether to put the edges on the inside or outside of the track is your decision. However, for the 
first race, we recommend to build the pictured 
track. 
4.There will be quite a few gaps in the track through which your disc can leave the track. 
5.If you knock your disc, or another player's disc off of the track, you lose that turn. 
6.With a really good bounce, you can cover large sections of the track. 
7.So that you can actually make shots, you may use the black disc to put some spacing between 
your disc and another player, or the wall. 
8.When you cross the Start Line, you finish a lap, and place a check on the scorepad. 
9.First one to complete 3 laps wins the race. 
 

Carabande - The Full Rules 
 
Setting up the game 
 
Before the first game, put stickers on the game discs from the included sheet. 
Then set up the track pieces to form an enclosed loop. 
Put the walls into the slits on the track, long bits on the curves, and short segements on the 
straights. 
Put the scorepad and the black spacing disc in the middle along with a pencil for marking laps. 
Give each player a disc. The youngest player receives the 1 disc and plays first. (With 2-4 
players, you may wish to use 2 discs for each player. 
In that case, give each player a set of 2 discs of the same color.) 
 
Sequence of Play 
 
1.Each race runs for 3 laps. 
2.The player with disc 1 puts his disc behind the starting line and knocks it as far as possible 
along the track. The rest of the players take their 
turns in order of their disc numbers. 
3.Once all players have had a turn, the player with disc 1 then takes another turn to flip his disc 
from where it lies on the track. After player 1 
takes a turn, then the rest take their turns in the same order as before. 
4.Once a player crosses the Start line, he places a mark under his number on the score pad. 
When he completes his second lap, he will place a 
mark in the second box. 
5.The first person to finish the third lap wins. 
 
Track Hazards 
 
1.Spacing between discs 
 
You may use the black spacing disc to create some space between your piece and an another 
disc or the walls around the edge of the 
track. This can help you make some shots if you are ever blocked. 
You may never use the spacing disc if there is a larger gap than the width of the disc. Look at 
illustration #3 for a couple of examples of 
spacing. 
When you are repositioning pieces to add some space, you may only move your piece, and never 
that of another player. 
2.Other Player's Pieces 
 
For the most part, you are allowed to knock other player's pieces around as long as you only 
physically touch your own piece. 
 
3.Knocking discs off of the track 
 
If a shot is so hard that it flies off the track, then the turn is lost. 
The player must move their piece back to where it was at the start of their turn, and their turn then 
ends. 
Tip: It is a good idea to leave you hand in place on the track until all discs have come to a 
complete stop. That way you can replace your 
disc easily if it is knocked off. 
If you knock another player's piece off the track, then you must attempt to return all pieces that 
have left the track to their locations 
before the shot. You must also return your own piece to its original location. Your turn then ends. 
4.Knocking a disc upside down 

 
If you flip your own disc in such a manner that it lands sticker side down on the track, you will 
miss a turn. 
Leave the piece in its current position, and on your next turn, flip it back over. That is your entire 
turn. 
Upside down pieces may be moved by other player's shots. 
If someone else knocks an upside-down piece off of the track, return the piece to its original 
position before the shot. Leave the disc face 
down. 
 
End of the Game 
 
As soon as a player completes his 3rd lap, he wins the race. 
The other players should continue the game until all finish the race 
 
Playing Tips 
 
1.The snapping 
 
A good player will use the same technique as the Indian game Carrom. Use the fingernail to 
actually contact the piece. You can use either the 
goat-finger (???), the middle finger, or the thumb for the snap. Simply pushing the disc is 
forbidden. 
2.Bank shots 
 
As you get better, you should be able to make shots that both bounce off the rails and glide along 
them for really long shots. Learning to make 
decent bank shots is essential to help get you out of some nasty situations when you are blocked. 
 
Carabande - Professional Rules 
 
The Carabande professional rules differ in two important ways: 
 
1.Pros don't use spacing 
 
You must play your discs where they lie. If you are lying against a rail, you will have to aim in a 
direction against which you can actually 
shoot. 
You may also not create spacing if you are hedged in by other discs. If there is no way for you to 
actually snap a finger to your disc, you 
must miss your turn. 
2.Pros use obstacles 
 
You use the black disc as an obstacle disc. Place it anywahere on the track. 
If a player knocks his own piece into the obstacle disc, he loses his turn. Move that player's disc 
back to its starting position, and pass the 
turn to the next player. 
If a disc besides the shooting player is knocked into the obstacle, it remains where it lies. The 
obstacle disc remains where it lies as well. 
 
Professional scoring for tournaments. 
 
If you decide to run a tournament to determine the best player, you should use the tournament 
scoring. Obviously, this only works if the same 
players are available for each race. 
 

Tournament scoring is added based on a player's finish position: 
 
Position 
Points 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pros also fight for Pole-Position 
 
Like in real racing, the Carabande player who gets the Pole Position has a strong advantage over 
his opponents. In the Pro version, you 
have to compete for the chance to go first. 
 
Choosing Pole Position with each player having 1 disc: 
 
For 2-3 players 
 
Each player takes a disc and tries to knock it as far as they can with a single shot. Leave the disc 
on the track, and allow the other players to 
take shots in turn. 
The person who made the furthest shot gets the Pole Position. The person with the second-
longest shot takes disc 2 and so on. 
 
For 4 players 
 
Play a small tournament of duels. First, player 1 and player 2 duel and try for the best shot. Then 
player 3 and 4 duel for best shot. Then the 
winners of both duels shoot against each other, and the losers play a duel against each other. 
The two winners of the first duel take discs 1 and 2. The losers take 3 and 4. 
 
For 5 players 
 
This works the same as the 4 player selection, save that one of the duels is for two players, and 
the other has 3 players. The person who loses 
the 3 player match takes disc 5. The second out of the 3-player match duels with the loser of the 
2 player match for discs 3 and 4. The 
winners duel for the 1 and 2 discs. 
 
For 6 players 
 
First, run 3 matches of 2 players each. The winners then play a final match for the 1,2,3 discs. 

The losers play for the 4,5,6 positions. 
 
For 7 players 
 
Run 2 duels of two players each, and a match consisting of 3 players. The loser of the 3 player 
match gets the 7. Otherwise, this works like the 
6 player scheme. 
 
For 8 players 
 
Run 4 duels of 2 players each. The winners play each other in duels of two persons similar to the 
4 player match. The winners of the first duels 
receive discs 1-4. The losers play each other for the 5-8 positions. 
 
Choosing Pole Position with each player having 2 discs: 
 
With each player having multiple discs, you play duals as above for 2-4 players 
 
For 2 players 
 
Play a duel. The winner gets discs 1 and 3. The loser gets 2 and 4. 
 
For 3 players 
 
The winner gets discs 1 and 4. The loser gets 3 and 6. The player who was in the middle gets 
discs 2 and 5. 
 
For 4 players 
 
The winner gets positions 1 and 5. The second player gets 2 and 6. The third place player gets 3 
and 7. The loser get 4 and 8.