Contents: Complete Annotated Rules 
 
STANDARD EDITION 
 Major Expansion  Minor Expansion 
 Alternate Edition 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
About this Document 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RULES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Carcassonne—The Basic Game 
 
 
●World Championship Rules 2012 
 The River 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Inns and Cathedrals 
 
 
 2. Traders and Builders 
 
 
 King and Robber Baron 
 
 
 The Count of Carcassonne 
 
 
 The Cathars (Die Katharer) 
 
 
 3. The Princess and The Dragon 
 The River II 
 
 
 
 
 4. The Tower 
 
 
 
 
 The GQ #11 expansion 
 
 
 5. Abbey and Mayor 
 
 
 
 6. Count, King and Robber 
 
 Shrines and Heretics 
 
 
 
 Cult, Siege and Creativity 
 
 
 7. The Catapult 
 
 
 
 
 The Wheel of Fortune 
 
 
 The Tunnel 
 
 
 
 
 8. Bridges, Castles and Bazaars 
 Crop Circles 
 
 
 
 
 The Plague 
 
 
 
 
 La Porxada 
 
 
 
 
 The Festival 
 
 
 
 
 The Phantom 
 
 
 
 
 The School 
 
 
 
 

 Winter Edition (Digital) 
 
 
 The Flier (Flying Machines) (Mini 1) 
 The Messages (Dispatches) (Mini 2) 
 The Ferries (Mini 3) 
 
 
 
 The Goldmines (Mini 4) 
 
 
 Mage and Witch (Mini 5) 
 
 
 The Robbers (Mini 6) 
 
 
 
 Crop Circles II (Mini 7) 
 
 
 Wind Roses 
 
 
 
 
 Little Buildings (The Houses) 
 
 The Besiegers (Die Belagerer) 
 
 
REFERENCE GUIDES 
 
 
 
Game Figures 
 
 
 
 
Order of Play 
 
 
 
 
 
Scoring During the Game 
 
 
Scoring After the Game 
 
 
 
Summary of Rule Sets & Changes 
 
Summary of Figure Characteristics 
 
Mega-Carcassonne 
 
 
 
Tile Overview by Release 
 
 
Consolidated Tile Reference 
 
 
Symbols & Features 
 
 
 
A Carcassonne Glossary 
 
 
German/English Dictionary 
 
 
Farming: A Historical Perspective 
 
Carcassonne Collections & Expansions 
Expansion Checklist 
 
 
 
Timeline of Releases 
 
 
 
Selected Variants 
 
 
 
 
 
ENDNOTES 
 
 
 
 
 
Epilogue 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcassonne Central 
 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
 
 
Version History 
 
 
 
 
Contact 
 
 
 
 
 
 

About this Document 
 
One of the primary purposes of the Carcassonne Complete Annotated Rules is to bring 
together into one place all of the rules from the game and all of its expansions. That’s not 
such an impressive goal, though – the PDF files of all of the rules are available online. 
However, some rules have changed over time with new editions of the game, and the 
intent of the CAR is to keep up with the current rules. Additionally, the CAR provides an 
official English translation for the basic game and its expansions, especially useful for 
those expansions that may not be released in English-speaking markets for years after 
initial German release. 
 
Another issue is that various combinations of expansions have created questions that are 
not answered by the rules themselves. The CAR is there for you too, though. Through a 
series of footnotes, you will find the answers to most of those questions as well. 
 
To clarify how official an interpretation in a footnote is, the following codes will be found 
throughout this document: 
 
 
 
Fully official clarifications from Hans im Glück (HiG), the original publisher of Carcassonne, 
are marked with the symbol . Additionally, these official clarifications may be written in 
a question and answer format, although an effort has been made to keep clarifications 
concise. Occasionally, official clarifications from other publishers (e.g. Rio Grande Games in 
the case of the Games Quarterly #11 expansion) are also written in this format. 
 
Interpretations and clarifications of the rules that come from the CarcassonneCentral 
community (including this author) will be marked with the symbol . 
 
Footnotes that highlight differences between different rule sets (such as noting older rules) 
are marked with the symbol . Where there is currently a major disparity in the rules 
among the different publishers, the footnote text will also be colored dark pink. 
 
Questions that we still don’t have an official answer for (or even a good suspicion of) will 
be marked with the symbol and are printed in red. 
 
Footnotes that represent commonly-used house rules or house variants are marked with 
the symbol  and are printed in blue. 
 
 
 
 
 
All images and the original rules text are © Hans im Glück, Rio Grande Games, and Z-Man 
Games and are used for educational purposes under Fair Use provisions, 17 U.S.C. § 107. 
 
 

 
As 2013 rolls to a close, the English explosion of Carcassonne is continuing, as English 
publisher Z-Man Games is adding a couple of expansions to their catalogue each fiscal 
quarter. Ultimately all major expansions other than the much-maligned Catapult will be 
accounted for, and English-speaking countries have the Count, King and Robber expansion 
for the first time. 
 
As noted before, the presence of a new publisher means that translation and compilation 
of rules has gotten messier than before. Different English words are used by different 
companies (and even in different sets of rules from the same company), so the 
terminology used in this document may be slightly different than what you have in your 
rules packets. We at the Carcassonne Complete Annotated Rules (CAR) have tried to 
maintain consistency throughout the document, and for now this document is sticking to 
some of the older and more established translations – if you have any questions about 
terms, be sure to check out the German/English Dictionary section to see the various 
translation differences that you may see in different versions of the rules. 
 
This version of the Standard CAR, version 6.4 (the final version of 2013) is really another 
mini-expansion to the CAR family. Only one new small expansion (The Besiegers) has been 
added since the last edition, and that new expansion brings the same rules as the long-
out-of-print Cathars, so there are no revolutionary new rules to focus on here. Thus, this 
version brings quite a few rules clarifications that have come out since the last edition of 
the CAR, with particular emphasis on The Princess and the Dragon – the timing rules, 
interactions with other expansions, varying translations, and fluctuating interpretations 
have made this one of the most complex expansions (if not THE most complex) to date. 
 
So dive into the CAR. We won’t promise you a zen-like understanding of Carcassonne, but 
you might find answers to questions that you didn’t even know you had. 
 
 

Rules 
 

Carcassonne – The Basic Game 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2000 
 
A clever tile-laying game for 2 to 6 players aged 8 and above by Klaus-Jürgen Wrede 
 
The city of Carcassonne in southern France is famous for its unique Roman and Medieval 
fortifications. The players take their chances with their followers in the cities, cloisters, 
farms and on the roads around Carcassonne. The development of the land is in their 
hands, and the skillful deployment of the followers as thieves, knights, monks and farmers 
is the path to success. 
 
Game contents 
 72 land tiles (including one with a 
dark reverse) which depict road, 
city and field segments, as well as 
cloisters and crossings.1 
 48 followers2 in six colors3: 
 
 
Each follower can be deployed as a 
knight, monk, thief or farmer. 
One follower of each color is used as 
a scoring marker. 
 One scoreboard. This is used to 
track players' scores 
 One rule booklet and one supplement. 
 
Overview 
The players place the land tiles turn by turn. This leads to the growth of roads, cities, 
cloisters and farms, to which the players may deploy their followers in order to earn 
points. As points can be won during the game as well as at the end, the winner will only 
emerge during the final scoring. 
 
 
 
1  The RGG edition of the Big Box 1, which includes The River, adds the following sentence here: 
“The 12 river tiles are NOT part of the basic game but do have the same back as the starting tile.” 
 
2  Question: Too few followers—are we playing wrong or are there really too 
few? Answer: In our view there are not too few. A certain shortage of followers is 
entirely intentional. An important element of the game is precisely learning to be 
economical with one's followers. 
 
3  As far as the Big Box is concerned, the sixth set of followers is a part of the basic game, not Inns 
and Cathedrals. 
 
 
a cloister
city segments 
farm segments
road 
segments 
crossing
reverse of the
starting tile 

The starting tile is placed in the middle of the table.4 The 
remaining tiles are mixed and placed face-down on the 
table in several stacks, so that each player can access them 
easily.5 The scoreboard should be placed at the edge of the 
table if possible. 
 
Each player chooses a color and receives the eight 
followers, placing one on the ‘0’ field of the scoreboard as a scoring marker. The remaining 
seven followers stay with the player for the moment, as his or her supply. 
 
The youngest player decides who starts the game.6 
 
Playing the game 
Play progresses in a clockwise fashion. The player whose turn it is carries out the following 
actions in the order given: 
 
1. The player must draw one new land tile and place it. 
2. The player may draw one follower from his or her supply and deploy it to the tile just 
placed. 
3. If any roads, cities, or cloisters are completed through the placement of the tile, they 
must be scored now. 
 
Then it is the next player's turn. 
 
As their first action, the player must draw a tile from one of the stacks. The tile is then 
shown to the other players (so they can ‘advise’ the player about where to place it) and 
placed on the table. The player must take care to observe the following: 
 
 At least one side of the new tile (with a red border in the examples below) must 
touch one or more tiles already in play.7 Corner-to-corner placement is not 
permitted. 
 
 
 
4  See notes on Use of a Table (p. 20). (5/2013) 
 
5  Tiles can also be placed into a sack and drawn randomly. 
 
6  This paragraph represents the current HiG rules. The RGG rules state that the players decide 
among themselves who will be the starting player, and the ZMG rules mention both options. 
 
7  Question: We have difficulty deciding when a placed tile represents a new 
city or belongs to one already being built. Answer: 'Corner to corner' is not a 
connection! Segments can only be connected on the edges. In the example shown 
there are two cities at the moment. 
 
 

 Any city, road, and field segments must continue segments already in play.8 9 
 
In the rare case that a tile cannot legally be placed anywhere, and all players agree, it is 
removed from the game, and the player draws another.10 11 
 
When the player has placed the tile, he or she may deploy a follower. 
In doing so the following points must be observed: 
 Only one follower may be deployed each turn. 
 The follower must come from the player's supply. 
 The follower may only be deployed to the tile just placed. 
 The player must decide which part of the tile the follower is deployed to 12 13 as 
either: 
 
 
 
8  Cloisters can be placed directly next to each other, or corner to corner. It is not necessary for 
there to be eight other (non-cloister) tiles neighbouring a cloister. A cloister stands in the middle of a 
field segment and other segments can be placed next to it. In contrast to roads, cities, and fields, it is 
not possible to connect to a cloister. 
 
9  A newly placed land tile must fit the adjacent terrain on all edges. During 
placement it is not enough to look for only one side that fits. 
 
10  Alternatively, if legal, the player could place the Abbey tile instead of drawing another tile. 
(1/2013) 
 
11  If drawing tiles out of a bag, a tile that cannot be placed could be returned 
to the bag for later use. 
 
12  If you complete a previously unoccupied city when placing a tile, you do not have 
to occupy this city and earn the points. You can close the city without it being occupied 
and (for example) deploy a farmer as long as the farm is unoccupied. The city does not 
necessarily require a knight to look after it. 
 
13  Question: On cloister tiles, are we allowed to deploy a follower on the 
surrounding field segment? Answer: Yes! The same rules are valid for a field 
surrounding a cloister as for any other field. You can also deploy a farmer next to a 
cloister. In this case the cloister remains unoccupied for the rest of the game.[unless 
the cloister is occupied via a magic portal, or from a follower in Carcassonne—ed.] 
 
 
 
a thief 
a knight
a monk 
a farmer
on a road 
segment 
in a city segment
on a cloister 
(monastery) 
here
on a field segment 
Place farmers lying down! 
or there

 
 There must be no other follower (not even one belonging to the same player) on 
the road, city, or field segments connected to the tile just placed. It does not 
matter how far away the follower is. The following two examples may help to 
explain: 
 
 
 
 
If a player runs out of followers during the course of play, he or she may only place tiles. 
But don't panic: you can also get followers back. 
 
Now the player’s turn is over, and it is the turn of the next player on the left. 
 
With the following exception: if a road, city or cloister was completed through the 
placement of the tile, it must now be scored.14 
 
 
 
 
14  Question: There is a situation that puzzles us. If a player draws a tile with 
two city segments and completes a small city, earning 4 points, can he or she then 
deploy a follower to a new city segment in the same turn? 
 
Answer: A player may only deploy one follower per turn, and that follower may be deployed only 
once, and it must be before any scoring. If the player already occupies the small, now-completed city, 
he or she may deploy a second follower to the other city segment immediately after placing the tile. 
The small city will then be scored and the follower involved returned to the player. If the player does 
not yet occupy this city, he or she can decide which of the two city segments to deploy a follower to. 
If the follower is deployed to the small city, it will be returned immediately and the player will earn 
four points, but the follower cannot be redeployed. 
 
 
BLUE can only deploy a farmer: 
there is already a knight in the 
connecting city. 
BLUE can deploy the follower as a knight or a thief, 
or as a farmer on the small farm segment: the large 
farm is already occupied. 

 
 
 
A road is completed when the road segments on 
both sides end in a crossing,15 a city segment, or 
a cloister, or when the road forms a closed 
circle.16 There is no limit to the number of road 
segments which can lie between these endings. 
 
A player who has a thief on this completed road 
scores as many points as the road is long, 
decided by counting the number of tiles.17 
 
Whenever points are scored, they are 
immediately recorded on the scoreboard (more on 
this in the section about the scoreboard). 
 
 
A city is completed when its segments are fully encompassed by a city wall and there are 
no gaps within the city.18 There is no limit to how many segments a city may contain. 
 
 
15  In the game there are crossings and junctions. But since all crossings have the 
same effect—namely, to bring a road to an end—it was decided to sacrifice the 
distinction between crossings and junctions (or T-crossings, or T-roads...?) in order to 
not unnecessarily complicate matters. 
 
16  Question: Can a road end in nothing? Answer: No, like all the usual land 
tiles, a road segment must continue to another road segment on all edges. 
 
17  Question: How are the road segments between T-junctions scored? Are the 
horizontal segments (on top of the T) also ends, or do these count as straight roads 
that have to be completed elsewhere? Answer: Every crossing (or junction) ends a 
road, irrespective of which direction they reach the junction from. The thieves cannot 
enter the small villages on the junctions either. In the example shown, every thief is 
on its own road. 
 
18  The RGG edition states rather confusingly that “a city is complete when the city is completely 
surrounded by a city wall and there are no gaps in the wall.” Obviously, a city cannot be completely 
surrounded by a wall, and the wall have gaps at the same time. It is the city itself which cannot have 
gaps, as the HiG rules make clear. 
 
 
RED scores 4 points
RED scores 
3 points 

A player who has a knight in a completed city scores 2 points for every city segment. 19 
Every pennant (banner / shield symbol)20 scores an extra 2 points. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What happens if there are several followers on 
a completed road or in a completed city? 
 
Through the wily placement of land tiles it is 
quite possible for several thieves to be on a 
road, or for several knights to occupy a city. 
 
The points are then scored by the player with 
the most thieves or knights.21 In the case of a 
draw, all players involved score the full number 
of points.
 
 
19  Note that the so-called ‘small city’ rule is no longer used in any edition. This rule stated that a 
city of two segments—the smallest possible completed city— scored only 2 points, or 1 point per tile. 
Pennants in a small city also scored only 1 point each. However, small cities are now scored in the 
same way as every other city: that is, 2 points for every city segment, and 2 points per pennant. 
 
20  Note that a pennant only affects the city segment it is in, not the whole tile (if there is more 
than one segment on a single tile). 
 
21  When two followers of one color are occupying a road, city, or farm, you DO 
NOT score double in these cases. The number of followers (or in Inns and Cathedrals 
the size of the followers) has no effect on the points that a player earns from a road, 
city, cloister, or farm. Two knights do not double the points. The number of followers 
is only important in establishing who has the majority. 
 
When both city segments 
on a tile are in a single 
city, they only count as 
one segment 
RED scores 
8 points 
(three city 
segments 
and one 
pennant) 
The new tile joins the previously 
unconnected city segments, forming a 
single completed city 
BLUE and RED both score the full 10 
points, as they both have one knight in 
the city—a draw! 
RED scores 8 points (four 
city segments, no pennants) 

A completed cloister (monastery) 
A cloister is completed when it is surrounded by eight land 
tiles. The player who has a monk in the cloister immediately 
scores 9 points—1 point for every land tile. 
 
Returning followers to their owners 
After a road, city, or cloister has been completed and scored 
– and only then – any thieves, knights, or monks involved 
are returned to their owner. From the next turn 
onwards, the player can then use them again in whatever 
role he or she chooses. 
 
 
It is possible to deploy a follower, score immediately, and have the follower returned, all in 
the same turn. In this case, you must use the following order: 22 
1. Complete a road, city or cloister 
with the new tile. 
2. Deploy a thief, knight or monk. 
3. Score the completed road, city 
or cloister. 
4. Return the thief, knight or 
monk to your supply. 
 
 
Farms 
Several connected field segments form a farm.23 Farms and field segments are not scored. 
They serve only as places to deploy farmers; the owner of the farm only scores points at 
the end of the game. As such, farmers remain on the farm for the duration of the 
game and are never returned to their owner! In order to make that clear, the 
farmers should be laid on their backs. 
 
Farms are separated from each other by roads, cities and the edge of the playing field – 
this is important during the final scoring. 
 
 
 
22  Note in the box that features are considered to be complete as soon as the tile is placed, 
although follower placement and scoring only occur afterwards. This is important when playing with 
The Flier. 
 
23  In determining farm size, farms can be limited by all kinds of barriers, for 
example, roads or cities which cannot be circumvented, or the edge of the playing 
field. It can certainly happen that a farm covers almost the entire playing field, and 
there will likely be farms that remain open for the entire game. 
 
 
RED scores 9 points 
RED scores 4 points 
RED scores 3 points

 
 
The scoreboard 
Any points scored should be recorded on the scoreboard 
immediately. The board is a track of fifty fields that can be lapped 
many times. When the field ‘0’ is reached or passed the player takes 
a point tile (from Inns & Cathedrals) and places it in plain view of all 
other players, with the number ‘50’ face up. In this way it is clear to 
all that the player has already scored 50 points or more.24 If the 
player reaches or passes the field ‘0’ again, they should turn the 
point tile over so that the number ‘100’ is face up. It is quite 
possible that the player might lap the circuit a third time: then he or 
she should take another point tile and display it next to the first, the 
‘50’ face up.25 
 
The game ends at the end of the turn in which the last land tile is placed.26 Any roads, 
cities, and cloisters completed in this round are scored as usual. This is followed by the 
final scoring. 
 
 
 
24  The graphic here suggests that it might also be a good idea to lie the follower being used as a 
scoring marker flat on the scoreboard as the ‘50’ is passed. 
 
25  This is the first real difference to previously published editions, now having its own section and 
a description of point tiles, which were previously considered to be a part of the Inns and Cathedrals 
expansion. 
 
26  Note that, according to the RGG Big Box 3 rules, the last land tile placed could be an Abbey 
tile. According to these most recent rules, “If one or more players have not yet placed their Abbey 
tiles when the last landscape tile is drawn and placed, they may now do so, if possible, in clockwise 
order starting from the left of the person who placed the last tile. Then, the game ends.” This is a 
reversal of a previous FAQ, which used the statement, “The game is over when the last face-down 
land tile has been played.” This older statement was to specifically prevent players from placing any 
abbey tiles which they may still have in their hand after the last ‘normal’ land tile (from the stack, the 
bag, or the dispenser) had been played. 
 
Be careful: 
The player who 
placed the new 
tile may not 
deploy a farmer, 
since the (now 
connected) farm 
is already 
occupied by 
farmers. 
After the placement of the new tile, 
the farms of the three farmers are 
joined to form one. 
All three farmers are on their own farms. 
The road segment and the city separate the 
farms from each other. 

 
 
 
Scoring incomplete roads, cities and 
cloisters 
The first things to be scored during the final 
scoring are the incomplete roads, cities 
and cloisters. For every incomplete road, city 
and cloister the owner scores 1 point for 
every segment. Pennants also now 
score only 1 point.27 As soon as the 
feature in question has been scored, the 
followers involved are removed.28 
 
Only the farmers and their farms are left, 
and these will be scored now. The owner of 
each farm should be established. If several 
players have farmers on a given farm, then 
the player with the most farmers is the 
owner. In the case of a draw, all the players 
with the most farmers are considered to be owners. The owner (or owners) of the farm 
score 3 points for every completed city which borders the farm, or lies within it.29 
 
 
27  Question: Final scoring: segments of incomplete roads. 1 point per follower 
or 1 point per road segment? Cloister: 1 point for every neighbouring tile (e.g. 5), 
or is an incomplete cloister worth only 1 point? Answer: During the final scoring, 
roads earn exactly as much as during the game, that is, 1 point per road segment. 
In the example shown, blue earns four points at the end of the game. The only 
exception in the final scoring is a road with an inn from Inns and Cathedrals, which 
earns no points whatsoever at the end of the game. The cloister earns 1 point for 
the cloister itself and 1 point for every neighbouring tile. When there are five tiles 
surrounding the cloister it earns 6 in total. 
 
28  This sentence, based on an FAQ, was added into the RGG rules at a later point in the text. 
 
29  Question: It is unclear whether incomplete farms earn points during the 
final scoring. Answer: It is almost impossible to close off or complete most of the 
farms. The most important thing when scoring the farms are the cities, which do 
indeed have to be complete. So: completed cities count on incomplete farms as 
well. 
 
30  Question: At the end of the game, do we score farms which are 
completely closed off by roads, but which don't have any adjacent cities? If so, 
how? Answer: Strictly speaking, they should be scored exactly like every other 
farm, with 3 points for every completed city. In this case, that makes a total of 
zero points. And the farmer is nevertheless unable to leave the farm. All this is of 
course highly frustrating and cries out for revenge! 
 
 
RED scores 3 points for 
the incomplete road. 
YELLOW scores 5 points 
for the incomplete 
cloister. 
BLUE scores 3 points for the incomplete city on the 
bottom right. GREEN scores 8 points for the large 
incomplete city. BLACK scores nothing, since GREEN 
has more knights in the city. 

If a city borders more than one farm, the owner(s) of each farm score(s) 3 points for the 
city.31 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31  This describes what is known as the ‘third edition’ method of scoring farms, the method 
curently accepted by all publishers. 
 
32  Question: What are the differences to the rules of the first edition, when 
Carcassonne won Game of the Year? Answer: The scoring of farms was not from the 
perspective of the farms themselves, as it is now, but rather from the perspective of 
the cities. For every city, you had to check how many farmers of each colour were 
adjacent to it, irrespective of from which side. The player with the majority of adjacent 
farmers supplying a city would earn four points for it. Each city would as such only be 
scored once, and therefore earned more points. According to the old rules, blue would 
be the only one to score points, since two of his or her farmers are supplying the 
cities, even though they are on different farms. Yellow has only one farmer adjacent to 
the city and goes home without anything. According to the new rules, both farmers 
earn points; and following the most recent rule changes, blue even earns points twice. 
 
BLUE scores 6 
points. RED 
scores 3 points. 
The incomplete 
city generates 
no points. 
BLUE scores 9 points. 
 = The order in 
which the tiles 
were placed. 
Having the 
majority of 
farmers, RED owns 
the large farm, and 
scores 6 points: 3 
each for the cities 
A and B. BLUE 
owns the small 
farm, scoring 3 
points for city A. 
On the large farm 
RED and YELLOW 
both have two 
farmers, and so 
both score 6 points: 
3 each for the cities 
A and B. BLUE owns 
the small farm, 
scoring 3 points for 
city A. 
 

Every farm scores the bordering cities33 in the same way. When this has been done, the 
game is over. 
 
The player with the most points wins.34 
 
 
Example of farmer scoring 
 
Here is a more detailed example of how farmers and their farms are scored. 
 
 
 
 
33  A bordering city is one that has a wall bordering the farm; a single point of contact at the 
corner of a tile is not sufficient. 
 
34  The HiG rules do not have any instructions regarding what to do in case of a tie. The RGG 
rules state that tied players “rejoice in their shared victory.” The ZMG rules state, “In case of a tie, 
play another game to determine the winner!” 
 
Be careful with 
the edges of the 
farm: farms are 
separated from 
each other by 
roads, cities (if 
they don’t lie 
within the farm) 
and the edge of 
the playing field. 
• Farm 1: BLUE owns farm 1. Two completed cities (A and B) border the farm. For each completed 
city BLUE scores 3 points (irrespective of their size), or a total of 6 points. 
• Farm 2: RED and BLUE own farm 2. There are three completed cities (A, B and C) bordering or 
lying within this farm. RED and BLUE therefore score 9 points each. 
Notice that cities A and B score points for BLUE on farm 1 as well as RED and BLUE on farm 2, 
since these cities border both farms. The city on the bottom left is incomplete, and so generates no 
• Farm 3: YELLOW owns farm 3, since YELLOW has more farmers on it than BLACK. There are four 
completed cities bordering or lying within farm 2, so YELLOW scores 12 points. 

 
The players decide who starts the game by any method they choose—such as by rolling 
three followers. The first player to ‘roll’ a standing follower decides who plays first. 
(Thanks to Joff). 
 
To determine the first player; each player draws a tile from the bag, the player that drew 
the tile with the most roads (0 to 4) plays first, if there is a tie for most roads, a draw-off 
takes place. This is repeated until someone wins. (Thanks to michael). 
 
Take your next tile at the end of your turn, to give you time to think about placement and 
avoid analysis paralysis. 
 
Play with a three-tile hand. The abbey counts as part of your hand. Play your turn. 
including the builder, and then draw back up to three tiles. These tiles could be visible to 
all or hidden to the other players (Thanks to DavidP and youtch). 
 
When playing with a bag for the tiles, the original starting tile may be put into the bag, 
and unplayable tiles can be put back into the bag rather than set to one side. (Thanks to 
dwhitworth). 
 
Trees (bushes) on roads do not end the road—only houses do (when the road forks). This 
makes road building a lot more dynamic. (Thanks to Tobias). 
 
When a tile is the only tile which can currently complete a structure, other players can 
offer to ‘buy’ it by offering points, trades counter, abbey, and so on. (Thanks to 
Deatheux). 
 
If you place a tile that fills a hole in the playing field by touching something on all four 
adjacent sides, you get another turn. This helps motivate people to finish the board even if 
they do not get an advantage from the placement. (Does not apply to the abbey tile). 
(Thanks to viberunner). 
 
Incomplete features at the end of the game do not score points at the end of the game. 
(Thanks to metoth). 
 
The edge of the table limits the playing area. Thus, a player may not place a tile past the 
edge of the table or move the playing area to place a tile that would have been past the 
edge of the table. (Thanks to metoth for prompting this one, and to SkullOne for pointing 
out that this is an official rule from Hunters and Gatherers). 
 
Table borders COMPLETE features as an abbey would. (Thanks to PreGy.) 
 
 
 

Use colored dice instead of meeples on the scoring track. Start out with the 6 showing on 
top. When the marker completes one lap, turn it to the number 1 to indicate it has 
completed one lap. This shows at a glance which player is on what lap and who's ahead. 
On the 100 space track it’s even easier to determine someone’s score at a glance. (Thanks 
to Carcking.) 
 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 72 
 
 x5 
 x9 
 
Underlined number includes starting tile. 
 
 
 

Use of a Table 
 
A number of questions have been asked about rules related to the play area itself, 
including what happens when the edge of the area is reached, or if a table has to be used 
for play. The following clarifications are from Georg Wild from HiG (5/2013): 
 
 The edge of the table is the limit for the game if, as stated in the rules, a table is 
used. 
 
 The rules state that the starting tile is placed in the middle of the table. If all of the 
tiles are shifted to allow more room, the starting tile would no longer be in the 
middle. So in principle, total shifting of the tiles is not allowed. Additionally, with a 
manual shift of all of the tiles, the tiles and figures on the field can slip, which 
could lead to incorrect positioning of tiles or figures. 
 
 Addition of a second table is possible if one of an appropriate height is added to the 
first table. If a table is extended (as with an additional panel), make sure that the 
tiles and figures on the playing field do not slip. 
 
 Playing on the floor: The rules technically do not allow this, because the rules state 
that the first tile is placed in the middle of the table. Playing on the floor is not 
forbidden, however, if use of a table is not feasible. If the floor is used, tiles must 
be placed so all tiles are visible to all players. Tiles cannot be placed under the 
sofa, cabinet/shelf, etc. 
 
 It is important generally, that all the players in the round agree how to play: 
Table - Standard 
Table - with "total shifting" of tiles 
Table - with extension 
Floor 
 
 Continue to play fairly and not intentionally unfair to other players. 
 
 

World Championships 
Tournament Rules 2012 
 
The tournament uses the Swiss system, applying the Buchholz (or Solkoff) method as a 
tiebreaker (the lowest result of an opponent is discarded) in a starting pre-elimination 
phase. The pre-elimination is a 6-round tournament at two-player tables. 
 
After these six rounds the best four players play a semi-final game (place 1 vs. place 4 and 
place 2 vs. place 3). The starting player is the player with the better results in the pre-
elimination. In the unlikely case of a draw/tie in this game, the player ranked higher in the 
pre-elimination moves on to the final. 
 
The two winners of the semifinal play out the World Champion in a final duel. The starting 
player in these finals is the player with the better position in the pre-elimination. If there is 
a tie, then a second game will be played with the second player as starting player. If there 
is a tie even after 2 final games (which is extremely unlikely), then the player with the 
better result in the pre-elimination wins. 
The same is done with the losing players of the semifinals – they play out which player will 
take place 3. 
 
For all games just the standard Carcassonne box is used. 
 
Explanation of Swiss system: 
 
In the pre-elimination games the number of victories will be counted. We will use the 
Buchholz (Solkoff) method to resolve ties. This means that for every player the number of 
victories of his opponents will be summed up. For this, the result of the weakest opponent 
will be discarded. 
 
If there are still ties, then the difference of victory points over all six games will be 
summed up and used as tie-breaker. 
 
The schedule for the first round will be determined by drawing lots. 
 
After that the schedule will be determined by the current ranking, where the players 
ranked 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 and 6 and so on will compete against each other. In addition to 
that we will take care that players do not have to play against each other twice (if 
possible). Then the next suitable player in the ranking will be determined (this actually will 
be done by a software solution). 
 
In every game the starting player is the player that has started fewer times. In case of ties 
the player placed at position one in a game by the software is the starting player. 
 
In all games chess-clocks will be used. Each player gets 15 minutes for his own game – if 
he uses up all his time, then the player loses. 

The player activates the other player’s clock as soon as he finishes his move – this means 
AFTER he calculates his points. 
 
Tiles are considered set and finalized as soon as a player lets them go – players are not 
allowed to change their decision of placement of tiles (and of course meeples) after they 
let them go. 
 
Rules of the Carcassonne Games ‐ Explanations: 
 
All games are played only with the basic Carcassonne game, with the following rule 
variations: 
 
Cities with two tiles give four points (not two). 
 
The Farm value is calculated like this: 
For every farm the number of farmers is calculated and the player with the most farmers 
receives 3 points for every city on that farm. Note that every player can get the points for 
one city in this manner more then one time! 
 
[In other words, the third-edition scoring rules.] 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2001 
 
 
 12 new land tiles (showing river segments as well as familiar features such as 
cities, cloisters, roads, and fields)35 
 
Separate the spring tile and the lake tile 
from the others.36 Place the spring tile in 
the middle of the table and make the 
other ten tiles into a stack. The game 
now begins. As usual, the players take 
turns to place a tile and can deploy their 
followers to the river tiles as knights, 
thieves, monks, or farmers. When the 
river is finished, the lake tile is placed, 
and the game continues with the 
remaining tiles. Followers may not be 
deployed to the river itself. 
 
The original starting tile can either be 
mixed into the stack of river tiles, or 
placed as soon as the river has been completed, and is treated like a normal tile. 
 
Important: A U-turn with the river tiles is not possible. This means that a 180° turn 
is not allowed, as it may lead to difficulties in placing all the tiles.37 
 
 
 
 
35  When the two River sets are combined, discard one spring and one lake and make just one 
river (instead of making two rivers using the two springs). 
 
36  Officially, the field goes around the spring, creating a connected farm. 
This was incorporated in to the RGG edition of the Big Box 1, which included The River (the HiG 
edition did not), stating that “The field space on the lake and spring tiles wraps around those 
features.” 
 
37  Question: With the U-turn rule when making rivers, does that mean no U-turn ever, or just no 
immediate U-turns because it will complicate the placement of subsequent river tiles? Answer: Only 
immediate U-turns are explicitly forbidden. (Naturally there can also be problems if a straight river tile 
lies between.) 
 
farm segment
road segment 
spring
lake
cloister
city segment 

 
Ban all river U-turns to prevent problems with subsequent placement. 
 
You are not permitted to lay down any meeples until the entire river is down. (Thanks to 
metoth). 
 
Once the river is complete, it may be moved to the center of the playing area. (Thanks to 
Joff). 
 
Instead of starting with the spring and setting aside the lake, put all of the river pieces 
into the bag. In this way the river can be any size and there is usually more then one 
option for placing a river tile. (Thanks to DavidP). 
 
Mix the original starting tile (without a river) in with the river tiles. If it is drawn then it 
acts like a 'bonus' tile that can be placed anywhere. (Thanks to RationalLemming). 
 
Lay the river in reverse order, from lake to spring. No real advantage, but might be more 
desirable, when playing the Count expansion, to have the lake near the City of 
Carcassonne for purely aesthetic reasons. (Thanks to Scott). 
 
 
 
 
 

Inns and Cathedrals (Expansion 1) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2002 
 
 18 new land tiles 
 6 point tiles (“50” on 
one side and “100” on 
the other side) 
 6 big followers (one 
for each color)38 
 
 
The new land tiles are placed in the usual 
way. Take care with the tiles shown on 
the right:39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38  In the Big Box, the sixth set of followers is part of the basic game and is described there. 
 
39  In the case of the following tile, the Big Box set (and more recent prints of Inns and 
Cathedrals) contains a more clearly drawn junction, as this comparison illustrates: 
 
 
 
 
Original tile 
 
Big Box version 
 
 The original rules point out, as do the ones in the Big Box, that a thief may not be placed on the 
short roads leading from each city to the junction, but it is not at all clear on the original tile that the 
road which leads between the cities is broken by the junction. The new tile is obviously meant to 
remind us that all junctions are considered to be ends of roads, and you are advised to follow this 
rule even when playing with the original tile. 
 
Thieves may not be 
placed here. 
The crossing divides 
the road into two 
The cloister divides 
the road into two 
This tile has four 
unconnected city 
The field comes to 
an end here. 
The inn lies on 
the right-hand 
road segment. 
Only BLUE scores points for the road.

Instead of deploying a normal follower, a player may now decide to deploy his or her big 
follower. This counts as one follower and is deployed according to the usual rules.40 
 
During scoring, however, the big follower counts as if the player had deployed two normal 
followers to the road, city, cloister, or farm in question.41 
 
Like any other follower, the big follower is returned to the player after scoring, and can be 
deployed again in the next turn. If the big follower is deployed as a farmer, it remains on 
the farm until the end of the game, just like other farmers.42 
 
 
 
Inns by a lake43 (6 tiles) 
If a road which has one or more inns lining it44 is completed, then 
the thief scores 2 points for every road segment, according to the 
number of tiles. However, if such a road has not been completed at 
the end of the game, it scores 0 points during the final scoring. 
 
 
 
 
40  These two sentences offer clarifications not contained in the previous rules: that a big follower 
is only one follower, although it counts as two during scoring; and it may only be deployed instead of 
a normal follower. 
 
41  A player with a big follower DOES NOT score twice as many points. The big follower is dealt 
with in exactly the same way as two normal followers; for two followers in a city, on a road, or on a 
farm, you only earn points once. The only function of the big follower is to obtain the majority more 
quickly. For example, in a cloister the big follower earns precisely the same number of points as a 
smaller follower. 
 
42  Question: [If captured by a tower,] is the ransom for the big follower doubled? Answer: No: 
he may be big, but he's still only one person. 
 
43  It is worth pointing out that this description seems to exclude the spring tile from GQ11, which 
contains what looks like an inn, but does not feature a lake. 
 
44  Note that an inn affects only the road segment that it is immediately adjacent to, not all 
segments on the tile. 
 
BLUE scores 6 points 
BLUE scores 6 points
Incomplete road at the end of the 
game: BLUE scores 0 points 

 
Cathedrals (2 tiles) 
If a city which contains one or more cathedrals is completed,45 then the knight 
scores 3 points for every city segment, according to the number of tiles, and 3 
points for every pennant. However, if such a city has not been completed at 
the end of the game, it scores no points during the final scoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45  Question: Am I allowed to place cathedrals in other players' cities? Answer: Yes, that is 
allowed, and is particularly useful towards the end of a game, when it can strip a large city of an 
opponent of points. The same goes for roads with inns. 
 
BLUE 
scores 24 
points 
Incomplete city at the end of the game: 
BLUE scores 0 points

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 18 
 
 
 OR 
 
 
 
 

Traders and Builders (Expansion 2) 
 
 24 new land tiles 
 6 builders and 6 pigs (one for each color)46 
 20 trade counters (9x wine, 6x grain, 5x cloth)47 
 
 
The new land tiles are placed in the usual way. Take care with the following tiles:48 
 
 
 
 
 
46  The original rules say: ‘12 new followers in 6 colors (one builder and one pig for each player)’. 
In the Big Box rules, the builder and pig are no longer considered to be followers, which has a large 
number of consequences for their use. The RGG edition of the Big Box also changes this rule. 
 
47  The bag is not included in the Big Box set, and so is omitted from the list. The original 
explanation for the use of the bag is as follows: ‘For technical reasons, the tiles of Carcassonne (the 
basic game) and the expansion(s) may have slightly different colors. Should this be the case, the tiles 
may be drawn from the bag.’ 
 
48  Notice that on the second tile, the road ends in a house; not an inn (there is no lake). 
 
The bridge is not a crossing. One road runs continuously from left to right, while the other runs 
from top to bottom. However, the field segments are separate. The tile has four separate field 
The cloister divides the road into three segments.
This tile has three separate city segments.
One road ends at a city, the other at a house. The tile has three separate field segments. 
 

Instead of deploying a normal or big follower, a player may now decide to deploy their 
builder or pig. These are deployed according the following rules. 
 
The builder 
Deployment: The builder can only be deployed to the tile which has just been placed, 
and then only to a road or city which already includes one of the player's followers. As 
such, the player must first deploy a follower to a road or city as usual, place a tile which 
extends this road or city in a subsequent turn, and then deploy a builder to the tile. 
 
 A builder can be deployed even if there are thieves, knights, or builders of 
other players on the road or city. 
 It does not matter how many tiles there are between the builder and the 
thief or knight. 
 A builder may be deployed to a road or to a city, as the player wishes. 
 A builder may never be deployed to a farm. 
 
Effect: Whenever the player places a tile that extends49 50 51 the road or city which 
includes their builder, they may take a double turn.52 Here, after performing the usual 
steps of deployment and scoring,53 the player draws another land tile, places it 
appropriately, and may then deploy another follower and carry out any necessary 
scoring.54 
 
 
49  This is a change from the original rules, which stated that the tile must “complete or extend” 
the feature. The abbey tile from Abbey and Mayor completes but does not extend a feature. The RGG 
edition of the Big Box also changes this rule. 
 
50  If a player completes a feature with an Abbey tile and his or her builder is on the feature, the 
feature does not get “extended” by the Abbey (as the Abbey is a separate feature), so the player 
does not get another tile. 
 
51  Placing a bridge on a tile to extend a road is sufficient to trigger the builder’s double turn, as is 
placement of a tunnel marker if additional tile(s) become part of the road in question. 
 
52  The original rules say that “the builder makes the double turn possible.” Given the use of the 
word “may,” or that the player “is allowed” to take a double turn in the RGG rules, it seems that the 
double turn is optional (though there are likely few circumstances where one would choose not to 
take the double turn). 
 
53  Originally the rules stated that the second tile was drawn (and placed) “immediately”; the Big 
Box rules state that the tile is drawn “after the usual steps of deployment and scoring have been 
performed.” The first part of the player’s turn should be completed in its entirety before beginning the 
second part of the double turn by taking a second tile. 
 
54  Important note: The “double turn” is really a single turn with two parts. Both parts of the 
double-turn are identical, but actions that only occur once per turn (such as fairy bonus point and 
prisoner buy-back) still only happen once. See the table at the end of the Traders & Builders section 
for more details. (modified 6/2013) 

 
The player’s turn is then over. 
 
Important notes regarding use of the builder and the double turn: 
 
 There is no chain reaction. If the play continues the road or city which includes 
their builder, they may not draw a third tile. 
 If the road or city is not completed during the course of either part of the double 
turn, the builder remains in play. The player may generate a double turn on each 
subsequent turn as well, as long as the road or city containing the builder 
remains incomplete. If it is completed, the builder and thief or knight are 
returned to the player after it has been scored. 
 The player can deploy a follower to the second tile as well as to the first. If the 
road or city is completed by the placement of the first tile, then the player may 
deploy the newly-returned builder to the second tile. 
 The builder is not counted when calculating the majority.55 
 When a player’s last thief or knight is removed from a road or city with a builder, 
the player takes his builder, putting it in his supply.56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55  As noted above, the builder is no longer considered to be a follower, so it does not count when 
calculating the majority. 
 
56  In the RGG version of the Big Box, this rule is included in The Princess & The Dragon section. 
 
1) Deploy a thief. 
2) Deploy the builder. 
3a) Continue the road. 
3b) Draw a second tile and 
place it somewhere. 
For example, a player may: 
1) Deploy a thief. 
2) Deploy the builder. 
3a) Complete the road and place a knight in the 
city segment of the tile. (The road is now 
scored—the thief and builder are returned to 
the player) 
3b) Place the second tile and deploy the builder. 

The Pig 
Deployment: The pig can only be deployed to the tile which has just been 
placed, and then only to a farm which already contains one of the player's 
farmers. 
 There can already be farmers or pigs of other players on the farm. 
 
Effect: The pig increases the value of cities for the farmers. 
 If the last farmer on the farm with the pig is removed from play, then the pig is 
also returned to the player.57 Otherwise the pig remains on the farm to which it 
was deployed until the end of the game. 
 During the final scoring, the player scores 4 rather than 3 points for every city on 
the farm.58 This is true only when the player owns the farm. As before, only 
farmers determine ownership of a farm. 
 The pig does not count when calculating the majority.59 
 
 
A city with trade goods is 
completed 
 
When a city containing one or more 
trade symbols is completed, the city 
is scored as usual. The player 
who completed the city receives 
one trade counter for each related 
trade symbol in the city—this player is, so to speak, the trader of the city. It is irrelevant 
whether this player had a knight in the city, or indeed whether there were any 
knights in the city at all.60 
 
 
57  This is a consequence of the rule that builders and pigs are not followers, and it also applies 
when the last thief or knight is removed from a road or city which includes the builder. Under the old 
rules, the builder or pig remained in play, and the builder continued to generate double-turns. Under 
the current rules, the builder and pig are dependent on followers for deployment, and cannot remain 
in play without them. 
 
58  According to third edition rules for scoring farms. 
 
59  The pig is no longer a follower, so it does not count when calculating the majority. 
 
60  Question: If cities with trade goods are completed by placement of an abbey tile, are the 
goods tokens awarded as usual to the player placing the abbey tile? Answer: Yes, as the player 
completed the city. 
 
RED completed the city 
BLUE scores 10 points. 
RED receives two grain 
counters and one wine 
counter. 

 
Final Scoring 61 
 
Trade Counters 
The player who has collected the most wine counters scores 10 points. The same is true 
for the player with the most grain counters and the most cloth counters. As usual, in the 
case of a draw all players involved score the full 10 points. 
 
 
 
 
 
The Double Turn 
 
Things That Happen 
Only ONCE 
Things That May or Must 
Happen TWICE 
 
 
Bonus point from Fairy 
(Princess & Dragon) 
Draw and place a landscape tile 
(required) 
Prisoner Buyback (3 points) 
(The Tower) 
Resolution of special symbols on 
tile (required) 
Tunnel token placement 
(The Tunnel) 
Follower or figure placement 
(optional) 
Flight from Plague 
(The Plague) 
Scoring (if one or more features 
are completed) 
Plague spread (The Plague) 
Prisoner exchange (can be more 
than twice) (The Tower) 
 
 
61  The example of pig scoring has been corrected—the Big Box version originally had the red 
follower standing. 
 
Example for a game 
with two players: 
BLUE scores 20 points, 
while RED scores 30. 
Points: 
Points: 
BLUE owns the farm. Since BLUE has a pig 
on the farm, she scores 4 points for every 
completed city on the farm—8 points in 
total. 
 
RED does not own the farm, since he does 
not have the majority of farmers on it. 
RED scores 0 points, even though he has a 
pig on the farm. 

 
Players are allowed to keep drawing additional tiles as long as they extend their city/road 
where their builder is deployed. (Thanks to Diminuendo). 
 
To bring the trade goods in line with the relative scoring of the King and Robber Baron, a 
player with a majority no longer scores 10 points. Instead, they receive a 10% bonus (or 
10 points, whichever is higher) to their total score at the end of the game, after calculating 
farms and incomplete features, but before calculating any other scores such as those from 
the King and Robber Baron. Additionally, any player who does not win the majority may be 
awarded 2 points for every token they own. (Thanks to kissybooboo). 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 24 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 5 new land tiles 
 1 King tile 
 1 Robber Baron tile 
 
Playing the game 
 
 
The five normal land tiles should be mixed in with 
the other tiles. They can be used with any or all 
of the other expansions. 
 
 
 
The King starts the game at the side of the playing field. As soon as a 
player completes the first city, he or she should take the King tile. If, 
during the course of play, another player completes a larger city62—
which means he or she places the final tile of this city—then he or she 
receives the King.63 
 
At the end of the game, the player in possession of the King scores 1 point for every 
completed city.64 65 
 
 
62  The player who completes the biggest city, that is, the city which consists of the most land 
tiles, receives the King. Thus, the highest scoring city may not always win the king, such as a smaller 
city earning more points through pennants or the cathedral. The same is true of roads and the Robber 
Baron. 
 
63  King and Robber Baron: Tips -- It is often difficult during the course of play to keep in mind the 
size of the city or road which is currently the largest. To avoid having to constantly recount, you could 
mark the size of the largest city and road on the scoring track using a neutral figure for the King and 
a different one for the Robber Baron. 
 
64  Castles (from Bridges, Castles & Bazaars) do not count as cities for the purposes of scoring for 
the King. 
 
65  The city of Carcassonne (from The Count of Carcassonne) does count as a city when scoring 
points for the King tile. (11/2013) 
This tile has two separate city 
segments. During the course of 
play they may nevertheless become 
connected, and then count as only 
one segment. 

 
The Robber Baron functions in the same way as the King. The player 
who completes the longest road receives the Robber Baron; at the end of 
the game, the player in possession of the Robber Baron receives 1 point for 
every completed road.66 
 
 
At game end, use a lot of dice, place them on the board as competed features are found. 
Then collect them in, counting as you go. (Thanks to viberunner). 
 
Place unused pieces (or other objects) on the scoreboard to represent the size of the 
biggest city and the longest road. (Thanks to RationalLemming). 
 
The player holding the King or Robber Baron at the end of the game receives a straight 10 
points for each card. This matches the points awarded for trade goods, and avoids having 
to count the number of completed roads and cities. (Thanks to Joff). 
 
The player holding the King or Robber Baron at the end of the game receives a straight 15 
points for each card, or 40 points if both cards are held by one player. (Thanks to PreGy.) 
 
The player who completes the first road receives the Robber Baron and keeps it until 
another player completes a longer road. Until that time, the player receives 1 bonus point 
every time a road is completed. The same applies for the King and cities. (Thanks to 
dustyu). 
 
 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 5 
 
 
 
 
66  With the three-way tile in Abbey and Mayor, the length of the road is the total number of tiles 
in the road, not simply the longest distance between two ends. The road has three ends which have 
to be closed, but the result is that it’s likely to be bigger. 
 

 
 12 new city tiles 
 1 count 
 
 
At the beginning of the game, the 
twelve city tiles are placed on the 
table so that they form a single city. 
This city67—Carcassonne itself—serves 
as the starting point for the game. 68 69 
70 As such, the normal starting tile is 
not used.71 72 
 
 
67  The city of Carcassonne does count when scoring farms at the end of the game and also 
counts when scoring points for the King tile. (11/2013) 
 
68  Followers can be deployed on features on City of Carcassonne tiles outside the City of 
Carcassonne itself, for example through use of a magic portal or as a flier. (1/2013) 
 
69  The dragon can fly around the outside of Carcassonne, treating the landscape areas as normal 
tiles and eating any followers on those tiles. Followers inside Carcassonne are unaffected. This 
represents a notable change from previous FAQs. (10/2012) 
 
70  Given new interpretations regarding placement of the dragon and followers on features outside 
the City of Carcassonne, it seems that the plague should also be allowed on the outside portion of 
 
71  The latest rules for The River II state that “if you decide to use The Count of Carcassonne and 
The River II as starting tiles for a game, it is possible that one will not be able to use all of the river 
tiles if they are placed too close to the City of Carcassonne. River tiles which cannot be placed should 
be removed from the game, in accordance with the basic rules. Even if the river cannot be placed in 
its entirety, the game should proceed in the usual way.” See the Comments in The River II for more 
information. 
 
72  The original rules added the following sentence clarification: “If the river is being used, then the 
spring tile should be placed next, and in such a way that the river leads away from the city.” Compare 
this with the introductory paragraph of the rules for Count, King and Consort: “It is not recommended 
to combine The Count of Carcassonne and The River II, as situations may arise in which it is 
impossible to place tiles properly.” In other words, the official position has changed over the years. 
 

There are four quarters in the city: 
 
1. the castle 
2. the market 
3. the blacksmith 
4. the cathedral 
 
The wooden count figure should be 
placed on the castle quarter of 
Carcassonne, and then the game 
begins as usual. 
 
 
 
Deploying followers to and from Carcassonne 
 
Whenever a player places a tile that causes at least one player to score points, 73 74 but 
the player placing the tile does not, this player may deploy one follower from his or 
her supply to a city quarter of his or her choice.75 76 77 78 If several features are 
 
 
73  The original version of the rules specifically mention completion of a road, city, or cloister as 
necessary to trigger the placement of a follower in Carcassonne. However, the RGG version of the 
rules and the Big Box 2 rules change the rule to that given here. 
 
74  It is clear from the wording that only scoring caused by placement of a tile can trigger 
placement of a follower in Carcassonne. Thus, scoring from non-landscape-tile related events (such as 
the Dispatches or paying a ransom for the Tower) would not trigger follower placement. Interestingly, 
though, another FAQ answer (below and in the Abbey & Mayor section) indicates that placement of a 
barn does trigger the ability to place a follower in Carcassonne. 
 
75  The mayor and the wagon can be placed in the appropriate quarter of Carcassonne. The barn 
cannot be placed in the city of Carcassonne. 
 
76  Question: If I place a barn on a farm on which another player has farmers, causing him/her 
to score while I score nothing, can I move a follower to Carcassonne? (While there is no immediate 
score to me now, the barn is certain to score at the end of the game). Answer: Yes, that’s allowed. 
Only immediately scored points matter. A similar question arises with regard to trade goods, which 
may lead to points at the end of the game. 
 
77  Question: Say I have a heretic engaged in a challenge with a monk, and I place the tile which 
completes the monk's cloister, so that the monk scores 9 points and I score 0. Can I still move a 
follower to Carcassonne in this case? Answer: Yes, triggered scoring, received no points: conditions 
 

completed, the player must not score points in any of them in order to take advantage of 
this opportunity. 
 
A player may only deploy one follower to Carcassonne each turn.79 This placement is in 
addition to any follower he may place as part of his normal turn, but he may only place 
one follower in Carcassonne per tile placed, regardless of how many scoring opportunities 
this placement causes. 80 
 
However, if a player has a double turn—because of the builder—a follower may be 
deployed to Carcassonne in both parts of the turn.81 
 
Big followers may also be deployed to Carcassonne; as usual, they count as two followers 
as far as the calculation of the majority in a feature is concerned.82 If using Abbey and 
Mayor, the mayor may also be deployed to the castle quarter, and the wagon to the 
castle, blacksmith, or cathedral quarters.83 
 
 
78  A follower cannot be deployed to Carcassonne via a magic portal. The magic portal only 
allows followers to be deployed to tiles that can be legally occupied according to the usual rules, as if 
the player had just placed the tile in question. Carcassonne is occupied according to different rules. 
 
79  A player who completes a road, city, or cloister, but without profit, cannot deploy a follower to 
Carcassonne and redeploy another before the area is scored. Scoring takes place first, and then, 
should the occasion arise, a follower may be deployed to Carcassonne. If a player uses a follower 
which is already in Carcassonne, then he or she profits from the scoring, and as such may not move 
another follower to Carcassonne. 
 
80  This sentence is an addition to the rules in the RGG edition of Big Box 2. 
 
81  This sentence originally occurs later in the rules, in a section dealing with how to combine The 
Count of Carcassonne with other expansions. Also, the version of the rules in Count, King and 
Consorts clarifies that a follower may be deployed to Carcassonne in both “parts” of a double turn, 
rather than in both “turns”—because a double turn is considered to be a single turn, rather than two 
separate turns. 
 
82  This sentence also appeared in the section on combining this expansion with others. 
 
83  This last sentence is taken from HiG’s Big Box 2 rules, where it occurs a little later in the text. 
It also occurs in the RGG edition. 
 
 There is also a sentence which says that, “if they are involved in a scoring, he counts as two 
followers as usual.” Since a mayor is valued according to the number of pennants in a city, and the 
wagon counts as a single follower, I can only conclude that this sentence is the result of an 
unfortunate copy-and-paste from the rules about big followers. It should probably read, “if they are 
involved in scoring a feature, they count towards the majority as usual.” However, the RGG edition 
translates it as, “if they are used when scoring, each counts as two followers.” 
 

If a feature is completed84 85 during the subsequent course of play, then before scoring 
takes place,86 all players may redeploy their followers from the appropriate city quarter to 
the feature being scored (with the exception of those followers in the same city quarter 
as the Count). In this way, followers may thus be deployed to already occupied features. 
 
The followers may be redeployed according to these rules: 
 from the castle quarter, a follower may be moved to a city87 
 from the blacksmith's quarter, a follower may be moved to a road 
 from the cathedral quarter, a follower may be moved to a cloister88 
 from the market quarter, a follower may be moved to a farm89 
 
 
 
 
84  Followers in Carcassonne can be redeployed to empty roads, cities, cloisters, or farms. When 
an empty road, city, or cloister is completed, followers in the appropriate quarter of the city [followers 
in the castle can only be deployed to cities, and so on] may be redeployed and then scored 
immediately. In general, unoccupied cities, roads, cloisters do not earn very many points, and so this 
option in mostly useful for returning followers from Carcassonne to a player's supply. 
 
85  The RGG rules state “when a [feature] is scored” rather than completed, potentially 
providing confusion when comparing the different rule sets (e.g. for unoccupied structures, where 
nobody gets points). However, as castles (Bridges, Castles, & Bazaars) prove, all completed structures 
DO score, even if there is no follower present to get those points. Thus, no contradiction. 
 
86  This is a minor change from the original rules, which read, “before the calculation of the 
majority.” 
 
87  Followers from the City of Carcassonne (the castle quarter) cannot move to a castle (from 
Bridges, Castles & Bazaars), as a castle is not a city, but is instead a new type of feature. 
 
88  Question: Until now it was impossible to deploy a second monk to a cloister... Answer: That 
is exactly the point. There was no rule that said only one monk could occupy a cloister. It was simply 
not possible because of the rules for placing tiles. This is the first opportunity for stealing a cloister 
away from a player. And deploying the big follower to a cloister may now be worthwhile as well. 
 
89  A follower can be moved from Carcassonne to a farm with a barn. The farmer will be scored 
immediately, and so scores only 1 point per city and is (importantly) not on the farm during the final 
scoring proper. [Obviously, placement of a follower in this manner still requires a scoring trigger as 
per the fundamental rules – this could be at the end of the game or with joining of a barnless farm to 
one with a barn – Chris O.] 
 

Followers in the market quarter may only be redeployed at the end of the game.90 91 
 
How does that work in practice? 
 
The player to the left of the one who placed the tile causing the scoring begins, followed in 
turn by the other players, with the redeployment round moving once around the table92. 
Thus, the player who placed the tile may redeploy his or her followers last. Each player 
may choose to redeploy all, any, or none of his or her followers from the appropriate city 
quarter to the feature being scored. Scoring then continues as usual.93 
 
Any follower which is not redeployed remains in Carcassonne. Followers in Carcassonne 
may only be redeployed in the manner described above. They may not be returned to the 
player in any other way (such as returning to the players’ play areas). The dragon may not 
move onto any of the 12 tiles of the City, and so cannot “eat” the Count, nor any of the 
followers deployed there.94 95 96 97 98 
 
 
90  This is no longer entirely true. Placing of a barn, and the subsequent scoring of the farm, does 
count as an opportunity to remove a follower from Carcassonne. Now that farms can be scored at 
times other than at the end of the game, followers from the market can be moved to farms earlier in 
the game. That occurs immediately after the placement of the barn, and before the farmers are 
scored. [Joining of a farm containing a follower to a farm with a barn would logically be another 
opportunity – Chris O.] 
 
91  Question: How does follower placement during the final scoring work? Answer: In principle 
very similarly to the way it works during the game. The 'trigger' for the final scoring is the player who 
placed the last tile and so ended the game. Beginning with the player on the left of the 'trigger' 
player, each player redeploys one of his or her followers from Carcassonne to an appropriate feature 
[followers in castle can only be deployed to cities, and so on] on the board. Followers can also be 
redeployed to incomplete roads, cities, cloisters, or farms, since these will also be scored at the end of 
the game. This process continues until no player can redeploy any more players from Carcassonne. 
The Count still blocks the city quarter in which he is resident. Normally the player with the most 
followers in Carcassonne will be the one to redeploy the last figure. 
 
92  The statement specifying that there is only one round of redeployment is a specific clarification 
in the RGG rules. 
 
93  Followers in Carcassonne are not scored. However, the followers can influence the usual 
scoring, as players can redeploy their figures to any city, road, cloister, or farm that is currently being 
 
94  This sentence occurs later in the text of HiG’s Big Box 2 rules. It confirms earlier FAQs, as 
shown below. It is also in the RGG edition. 
 
95  Question: Does the dragon also eat the followers or the Count in Carcassonne itself? 
Answer: No, Carcassonne is safe! Since the followers in Carcassonne aren't unambiguously on the 
tiles as such, and some problems would ensue (for example, what would happen to the Count?), the 
dragon may not enter Carcassonne. 
 

 
The Count 
When a player deploys a follower to Carcassonne, he or she may at the same 
time move the Count to one of the City quarters. From the quarter in which the 
Count is currently residing, no followers may be redeployed.99 For example, if a 
city is being scored, and the Count is residing in the castle, no one may 
redeploy a follower from the castle to a city. 
 
The followers in this quarter remain in the Count's entourage—and therefore blocked until 
the Count is moved to another quarter. The Count should always clearly stand in one of 
the quarters, and never leaves Carcassonne. 
 
 
Official Variants 
 
Even the aristocracy are subject to certain rules, and cannot simply do whatever they may 
want. The following variants take this into account and constrain the freedom of the 
Count. Using these variants will lend the mini-expansion even more tactical possibilities. In 
both variants, the Count may no longer be freely moved, but rather: 
 
1) whenever a new follower is deployed to the city of Carcassonne, the Count is moved 
clockwise to the next city quarter; OR 
 
2) the Count is moved to whichever city quarter the new follower is deployed to. 
 
 
Place the river first, then fit the city of Carcassonne next to it so that the most tiles are 
touched. Most likely this will seem to make the river flow around the city. 
 
 
 
 
96  The dragon can fly around the outside of Carcassonne, treating the landscape areas as normal 
tiles and eating any followers on those tiles. Followers inside Carcassonne are unaffected. This 
represents a notable change from previous FAQs. (10/2012) 
 
97  Given new interpretations regarding placement of the dragon and followers on features outside 
the City of Carcassonne, it seems that the plague should also be allowed on the outside portion of 
 
98  Followers can be deployed on features on City of Carcassonne tiles outside the City of 
Carcassonne itself, for example through use of a magic portal or as a flier. (1/2013) 
 
99  The RGG Big Box 2 edition of the rules states “No player may move a follower to or from the 
quarter wher the count stands.” (Emphasis added.) This addition is not seen in any other version of 
the rules. 
 

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 12 (as 1 starting block) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Back sides: 
 

The Cathars (Die Katharer) 
originally released in Spielbox in 2004 
 
During the 11th and 12th centuries, a new religion called Catharism 
developed in southern France. The Roman Church decreed that this 
religion was heretical. By the beginning of the 13th century 
Carcassonne had become a stronghold of the Cathar religion. After 
unheeded warnings and the murder of a church legate, Pope Innocent 
III initiated a crusade against the Cathars. The besieging of 
Carcassonne in 1209 marked the start of 40 years of continuous 
war.100 
 
 4 new land tiles 
 
 
 
The four normal land tiles should be mixed in with the other land tiles. Except for the 
 
 
 
Cities which contain tiles with a Cathar symbol are said to be besieged. Whenever a 
besieged city is completed during the course of play, each tile scores only 1 point instead 
of the usual 2.101 If the city contains a cathedral, it scores only 2 points for every tile. 
Should the city remain incomplete at the end of the game, it scores no points during the 
final scoring. 
 
 
100  The picture shows Cathars being expelled from Carcassonne in 1209. Artist unknown. Source: 
Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Cathars expelled.JPG). Public Domain / Creative 
Commons. 
 
101  Every city tile and every pennant (true, that could have been mentioned in the rules) earns 
one point, or two points with the cathedral. The word "only" is purely quantitative, referring to the 
points value alone. As such the change to the usual rules is as small as possible. 
 

 
It is possible to escape a besieged city via a neighboring cloister.102 103 104 If a cloister 
directly borders a Cathar tile, even diagonally—then at the end of a player's turn, he or 
she may remove one knight105 from the city and return it to the supply.106 
 
 
 
 
farm, or 8 points for a farm with a pig.107 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 4 
 
 
 
 
 
102  A knight in a besieged city can also escape via an abbey, as the abbey has all the 
characteristics of a cloister. 
 
103  A knight in a besieged city can escape via a shrine, as the shrines are, for the most part, 
identical to cloisters. That goes for escape as well. 
 
104  Mayors and wagons can also escape a besieged city via cloisters and abbeys (although it 
 
105  Only one knight can escape a besieged city per turn. It’s irrelevant whether the followers are 
 
106  Question: Can I simply free a knight after a turn, if a cloister borders [a besieged city], or do 
conditions (cloister next to a Cathar tile) are fulfilled. A player is not obliged to build onto the city, nor 
onto the cloister. He or she must simply have a knight in the city. 
 
107  A player still scores double points for a besieged city if it lies on a farm with a barn. 
 

 
The Princess and The Dragon (Expansion 3) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2005 
 
 30 new land tiles, including 6 volcanos, 12 dragon tiles, 6 magic portals, and 6 
princess tiles 
 1 dragon 
 1 fairy 
 
 
 
The new land tiles are placed in the usual way. All the new tiles contain a symbol (a 
volcano, a dragon, a princess or a magic portal) which can have an effect on Step 2: 
Deploy a Follower. The precise functions are described there. 
 
Other new tiles:108 
 
 
Tunnel: The road is not broken, and neither are the farms on the bottom and the top. 
 
 
 
 
Cloister in the city: When a player deploys a follower here, it must be clearly placed either in the 
city or on the cloister. If the follower is deployed to the cloister, then the cloister is scored when it 
is surrounded by eight land tiles, even when the city is not completed. The follower can also be 
deployed as a monk if there is already a knight in the connected city. The reverse is also true. 
 
 
 
 
108  If using tunnel tokens from The Tunnel, then the road shown on the first tile is indeed broken, 
and the segments may never actually meet. 
 

 
The fairy 
 
When a player does not deploy109 a follower,110 the builder, or the pig on his or her 
turn, the player may now decide to move the neutral fairy next to111 112 one of his 
or her followers.113 114 115 The fairy begins the game at the edge of the playing field. 
If the fairy is already on a tile, it may be moved to another. 
 
 
 
 
 
109  This is a small, but significant change; see the note below on the volcano. 
 
110  The RGG edition of the Big Box states only that “whenever a player places no follower on his 
turn, he may, instead, place the fairy.” However, it still seems reasonable to conclude that fairy 
placement is an alternative to placing a pig, builder, tower piece, or other figure, even if they are not 
explicitly mentioned. 
 
111  Only one follower can be “next to” (or connected to) the fairy. Thus, only one follower will 
receive points from the fairy in the second and third effects (next page). Even if another follower is 
placed in the same feature on the same tile (as with the Flying Machines), this would not be 
considered “next to” the fairy. 
 
112  The bolded text (“next to”) represents the current HiG rules, and the fairy rules have been 
reiterated in further clarifications. However, the RGG and ZMG rules instead state that the fairy is 
simply placed on the tile that has one of the player’s followers. This lack of specificity in the RGG 
and ZMG rules would be an important consideration in the 2nd and 3rd effects of the fairy discussed 
below. (updated 5/2013) 
 
113  Because builders and pigs are not followers, it is not possible to move the fairy next to either 
of them, as the fairy can only stand next to a follower. 
 
114  It seems that a player with no followers on the board cannot move the fairy, even if he or she 
did not deploy a figure that turn, as there is not a legal tile to which the fairy can be moved. 
 
115  The fairy can be moved to a tile where the only follower on the tile is on a tower. 
 

The fairy has three effects: 
 
 Protection from the Dragon: The dragon cannot enter a tile with the fairy on it. 
Thus, any figure on this tile is protected from the dragon. 
 1 Point at the beginning of a turn: At the start of a player’s turn, if the fairy is 
next to one of the player’s followers, he or she scores 1 point immediately.116 If 
a player uses his builder to generate a double turn, this bonus is still only scored 
once.117 
 3 Points at scoring: If the fairy is standing next to a follower in a feature (city, 
road, cloister, or farm) that is being scored, the owner of that follower receives 3 
points, independent of how much (if anything) the player otherwise receives from 
the scoring.118 119 120 The follower is then returned to the player, while the fairy 
remains where it is.121 
 
 
 
 
116  In the RGG and ZMG versions of the rules, a follower on the same tile as the fairy will 
generate the 1-point bonus (again, because in these rules the fairy is not specifically placed beside a 
single follower). Thus, by these rules, it would be conceivable that multiple players could benefit from 
fairy placement if there were multiple followers on (different features of) the same tile. (updated 5/2013) 
 
117  This sentence stems from an FAQ and is now included in the RGG Big Box 3 rules. 
 
118  The RGG version of the rules states that the follower simply must stand on the tile with the 
fairy to be eligible for the 3 point bonus, again because specificity in fairy placement is not required. 
Interestingly, the ZMG version emphasizes that the fairy and follower must “stand together” to 
receive the points, even though placement of the fairy in the ZMG version is only to the tile generally. 
(updated 5/2013) 
 
119  Note that the scoring of the 3 bonus points is independent of the normal points scored for the 
completed feature. Thus, a follower in that feature and on the fairy tile will score 3 points even if that 
player does not have the majority for the purposes of scoring the feature. 
 
120  Question: If the fairy is on the same tile as the losing heretic or monk in a challenge, does 
someone has won), both followers are returned to the player, so no one stands next to the fairy. [At 
 
121  If a player completes a city and does not deploy a follower, he or she can move the fairy to a 
follower in the city and earn the three bonus points. The deployment of a follower—and so the 
movement of the fairy—occurs before any scoring. 
 

If a player with a builder gets a double turn, he or she gets the fairy point only at 
the beginning of the first turn. 
The fairy does not protect against capture by the tower. 
If a player moves the fairy, he or she may not place any other figure, including 
builder, pig, mayor, barn, or wagon.122 
 
The Volcano 
 
A player who places a volcano tile must immediately move the dragon to 
this tile from its current location. The player may not deploy a follower (or 
any other figure, except the dragon)123 124 to the tile, but may—according 
to the usual rules—move the fairy.125 At no point may followers occupy the 
same tile as the dragon. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A player who places a volcano tile and creates a site for a barn may place the 
barn.126 
 
 
 
 
 
122  These 3 bullet point clarifications are additions to newer versions of the rules. (12/2013) 
 
123  The clarification regarding all figures is a change in Big Box 2 & 3. Previously, builders and pigs 
could also be deployed when a volcano tile was placed. 
 
124  When a tile with a volcano is placed, the player may not deploy a follower (including the 
Phantom), a builder, or a pig to the tile. Thus, the player may place the barn (since that is not fully 
on the tile), play a tower piece, deploy a follower to the Wheel of Fortune, or move the fairy. Little 
buildings are not figures and could be placed. A bridge can also be placed as necessary. 
 
125  This is a notable change in the rules, especially in respect of a previously available FAQ which 
clearly stated that the fairy could only be moved when the player relinquished the deployment of a 
follower—and since no follower could be deployed when a volcano tile is placed, the fairy could not be 
moved either. That ruling has obviously been overturned, since the rules now state that the fairy may 
be moved when a volcano tile is placed. Indeed, the rules now say that a player may move the fairy 
whenever he or she does not place a follower. Thus, the player no longer has to “choose” not to 
deploy a follower—in any case when a follower is not or cannot be deployed, the fairy may be moved. 
This is in fact consistent with another FAQ, which stated that the fairy may still be moved if the player 
has run out of followers. 
 
126  This clarification is an addition to newer versions of the rules. (12/2013) 
 

The dragon 
A player who places a dragon tile may deploy a follower or move the fairy 
as usual. 127 128 Then (before scoring) the game is interrupted129—the 
dragon is on the move! 
 
Beginning with the player whose turn it is, each player must move the dragon exactly 
one tile horizontally or vertically. The dragon always moves six tiles, irrespective 
of the number of players, except in the case of a dead end. It may not move onto a tile 
twice,130 and the tile occupied by the fairy is also off limits.131 132 133 Whenever the dragon 
enters a tile occupied by any player’s figure or figures (followers, builders, or pigs),134 135 
136 they are all returned to the relevant player.137 138 
 
 
127  This is a clarification, in accordance with the FAQ. The original rules made no mention of the 
fairy. The dragon tile may be placed, no follower deployed, and the fairy moved to protect a follower, 
before the dragon actually moves. 
 
128  Question: If you place a dragon tile and add a piece to a tower, what happens first: follower 
capture by the tower, or dragon movement? Answer: Prisoners are taken first; placing a tower piece 
is an alternative to deploying a follower, so occurs before dragon movement. 
 
129  The RGG edition contradicts the sequence described in the HiG edition and the FAQ: “If 
placement of the tile completes a feature, it is scored as normal. Then, the game is briefly interrupted 
while the Dragon moves.” So, according to the RGG edition of the Big Box, dragon movement occurs 
after scoring; according to HiG it occurs before scoring. The ZMG edition follows the HiG rule and 
specifically adds that the interruption is “before scoring.” (5/2013) 
 
130  The dragon is not allowed to move back to the tile from which it started. 
 
131  Question: Does the dragon also eat the followers or the Count in Carcassonne itself? 
Answer: No, Carcassonne is safe! Since the followers in Carcassonne aren't unambiguously on the 
tiles as such, and some problems would ensue (for example, what would happen to the Count?), the 
dragon may not enter Carcassonne. 
 
132  The dragon can fly around the outside of Carcassonne or the Wheel of Fortune, treating the 
landscape areas as normal tiles and eating any followers on those tiles. Followers inside Carcassonne 
or on the Wheel of Fortune itself are unaffected. This represents a notable change from previous 
FAQs. (10/2012) 
 
133  The dragon can move to the same tile as the Mage or Witch. (1/2013) 
 
134  The mayor and the wagon can be eaten by the dragon, captured by the tower, or seduced by 
a princess (at which point the question of what the princess does with the wagon arises...). 
 
135  The barn cannot be eaten by the dragon, as is clarified in Abbey & Mayor. Remember, the 
barn stands at the intersection of 4 tiles, while the dragon only affects figures discretely on a single 
 
136  Neutral figures, including the Mage and Witch, cannot be eaten by the dragon. (1/2013) 

 
 The dragon removes the following figures from the field of play: normal and large 
follower, pig, builder, follower on a tower, mayor, and wagon. 
 The dragon cannot move into the City of Carcassonne. 
 The dragon does not remove a follower from a castle.139 
 
If the last thief, knight or farmer of a player is removed from a road, city, or farm, then 
any builder or pig belonging to the player is also removed from the feature in question.140 
When the dragon has finished moving, play continues as usual.141 
 
Dead ends: If the dragon moves to a tile from which it cannot continue to move 
according to the rules above, then its movement phase is ended prematurely. 
 
Note: Until a volcano tile has been placed, the dragon remains on the edge of the playing 
field, and is not moved. If a dragon tile is drawn, it is placed to one side and the player 
may draw another tile. As soon as the dragon is in play, any dragon tiles which have been 
laid to one side are mixed into the supply and the game continues as before. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
137  The dragon eats all followers on a tile, even if one is in a tower. 
 
138  According to the Big Box 3 rules, followers in castles are safe from the dragon. 
 
139  These 3 bullet point clarifications are additions to newer versions of the rules. (12/2013) 
 
140  This is a direct consequence of the rule that builders and pigs are not followers—in the original 
rules they could remain in play, the builder still able to generate double turns. 
 
141  Question: When a city, cloister, or road is completed by placing a dragon tile, is it scored 
before the movement of the dragon? Answer: The dragon is moved before scoring and may possibly 
clear the city, cloister or road in question before any scoring takes place. [As noted in a previous 
footnote, this is true in HiG rules, but scoring occurs first in RGG rules – ed.] 
 

Example 
 
 
 
 
 
An example with four players: 
• Player A moves the dragon up, 
• Player B moves the dragon left, 
• Player C moves the dragon down, 
• Player D moves the dragon left—it cannot move 
right. 
• Then it is player A’s turn again, and the dragon 
moves up a tile. 
• Then player B moves the dragon up once more, and 
the movement of the dragon is over. 
• The BLUE and RED followers are returned to the 
supplies of their owners. 

The magic portal 
 
If a player places a magic portal tile, on this turn he or she may deploy a 
follower to that tile or to a tile already in play.142 143 144 145 
 
The usual rules must be followed146—for example, the follower may not be 
deployed to an already occupied or completed feature.147 148 
 
 
 
 
142  Builders and pigs cannot use the magic portal, as they are not followers. 
 
143  The mayor and the wagon can use a magic portal. The barn cannot use a magic portal. 
 
144  A Phantom can use a magic portal. However, because the magic portal counts as a feature, a 
wooden follower and the Phantom cannot BOTH use the magic portal on a turn – the first follower 
placed on the magic portal claims the magic portal, and no follower (including the Phantom) can be 
placed on a claimed feature. (1/2013) 
 
145  The portal is never really considered completed, as it is simply a doorway. (2/2013) 
 
146  A follower cannot be deployed to the City of Carcassonne or to the Wheel of Fortune via a 
magic portal. The magic portal only allows followers to be deployed to tiles that can be legally 
occupied according to the usual rules, as if the player had just placed the tile in question. The City of 
Carcassonne and the Wheel of Fortune are occupied according to different rules. (confirmed 5/2013) 
 
147  The original rules stated that a follower could not be deployed to a feature which had not yet 
been scored—leaving the possibility that a follower could use a magic portal to reach a feature which 
had been completed, but not scored. This was corrected in an FAQ, and now in these rules. The 
magic portal may not be used to reach a completed feature, whether it was scored or not. 
 
148  Followers can use the magic portal to be deployed on features outside the City of 
Carcassonne, on features outside of the Wheel of Fortune, and on the features on the school tiles 
(outside the school itself). (1/2013) 
 
RED places the tile with the magic 
portal on the left and puts his 
follower on the tile with the 
previously unoccupied city on the 
right.. 

The princess 
 
If a player draws a tile with a princess, it may be placed according to the 
usual rules. If the player uses the tile to extend a city which is already 
occupied by one or more knights, the player may149 remove one knight (big 
or normal),150 mayor, or wagon151 (including his own)152 from the city and 
return it to its owner.153 If the player does not remove a follower, he may deploy a 
follower as normal.154 
 
 If there are knights of several players in the city, the player placing the tile may 
freely choose which knight is to be removed. 
 If the last knight of a player is removed from a city in which that player also has a 
builder, then the builder is also immediately removed and returned to the 
player.155 
 If a knight is removed from the city, the player may not deploy or move any other 
figure (including follower, builder, pig, mayor, barn, wagon, or fairy). 
 
 
 
 
 
149  This is a change to the original rules, which stated that the princess must remove a knight, 
unless there was no knight in the city at all. The change, first seen in Big Box 2, brings the procedure 
in line with that of the tower: both may remove a follower if the player wishes. The RGG and ZMG 
editions of the rules maintain the rule that princesses must remove a follower. (updated 12/2013) 
 
150  This clarification is specifically included in the Big Box 1-3 rules. It constitutes a slight rule 
change from the original rules -- according to an early FAQ, the big follower could only be removed 
from a city when there were no other knights. A big follower is now removed from the city just like 
any other. 
 
151  The specific comments about the mayor and wagon are found in Big Box 2 and 3, but not in 
the rules from the stand-alone expansion. (12/2013) 
 
152  This clarification in parentheses was first added to the 2010 version of the rules. (12/2013) 
 
153  Question: If the dragon can eat a follower on a tower, can the follower also be seduced by a 
princess? Answer: No. The tower is not a part of the city: they are two separate areas. 
 
154  This sentence was added when the requirement of removing a knight became an option. It 
replaced the sentence: “If [the player] places the tile so that it adds to an empty city, or only starts a 
new city, he may place a follower (or other figure) in the normal way.” The RGG and ZMG editions 
keep various wordings of the old sentence. (12/2013) 
 
155  Builders cannot be directly removed by a princess, as builders are not followers. This would 
also conform with the rule that builders and pigs cannot be taken prisoner by towers. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Replace dragon tiles into the bag and redraw right away if there is no dragon in play yet. 
(Thanks to dwhitworth.) 
 
Players are allowed to claim a fairy point until the bag is handed to the next player, but 
then it’s tough if they forget! (Thanks to dwhitworth.) 
 
Abandon the 1-point bonus for the fairy altogether, instead awarding 5 points for a 
protected follower completing a feature. (Thanks to viberunner.) 
 
The fairy does not prevent the dragon from moving to a tile, but it still prevents the 
dragon from eating any figures on that tile. (Thanks to jrizos.) 
 
 
 
RED places the tile with the princess 
and removes the BLUE knight. RED 
now may not place any follower or 
other figure. 

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 30 
 
 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2005 
 
 12 new river tiles 156 
 
 
The original starting tile is not used.157 158 The spring tile, the river fork and the lake with a 
volcano should be separated from the others, while the remaining tiles are mixed and 
placed face down in a stack. The spring tile159 is placed in the middle of the table. The 
youngest player then places the fork.160 Then each player takes turns placing a tile either 
on left or right branches of the river. The volcano tile is placed last. 
 
The river tiles can be placed as the player wishes, except for two exceptions: no 180° 
turns are allowed,161 and the two river branches must not be connected. 
 
As in the normal game, every player may deploy a follower as they wish. No follower can 
be deployed to the river itself. 
 
 
 
156  Officially, the field goes around the spring, creating a connected farm. 
 This has been incorporated in to the RGG edition of the Big Box 1, which includes The River (the 
HiG edition does not) and states that “The field space on the lake and spring tiles wraps around those 
features.” 
 
157  This is an addition to the Count, King and Robber edition of the rules. 
 
158  If the main game tiles are drawn out of a sack, there is no reason not to mix the original 
starting tile in with the rest of the tiles. 
 
159  When the two River sets are combined, discard one spring and one lake and make just one 
river (instead of making two rivers using the two springs). 
 
160  Question: If you combine Count, King and Consorts with The River II, you will now have 
two forks. Obviously one of those gets placed immediately, but should the other one be mixed in with 
the rest of the river tiles, or put to one side? Answer: In fact, that means using The River II twice. 
We didn’t plan that, and I think that it will lead to problems with placement. Whoever wants to do it 
should go ahead, but there are no rules for it. Sorry! 
 
161  Question: With the U-turn rule when making rivers, does that mean no U-turn ever, or just 
no immediate U-turns because it will complicate the placement of subsequent river tiles? Answer: 
Only immediate U-turns are explicitly forbidden. (Naturally there can also be problems if a straight 
river tile lies between.) 
 

If you don't possess the relevant expansions, the inn, volcano, and pig-herd tiles have no 
particular significance.162 
 
The player who places the volcano may not deploy a follower to this tile, but should place 
the dragon on the tile instead.163 The player may therefore take another tile 
immediately,164 thus beginning the normal game. 
 
The pig-herd tile earns the farmer who owns this farm an extra 1 point per city. If a player 
has the pig-herd and a pig (from the Traders and Builders expansion), he or she receives 
an additional 2 points per city.165 166 167 168 169 
 
Note: If you decide to use The Count of Carcassonne and The River II as starting tiles for 
a game, it is possible that one will not be able to use all of the river tiles if they are placed 
too close to the City of Carcassonne. River tiles which cannot be placed should be removed 
from the game, in accordance with the basic rules. Even if the river cannot be placed in its 
entirety, the game should proceed in the usual way.170 
 
 
162  Still, there seems to be no reason why you couldn’t use the pig-herd without having the pig, 
since they are scored independently. 
 
163  The RGG edition of Big Box 2 does not mention that a player should place the dragon on the 
volcano tile, only that the player should place a second tile. 
 
164  It should be noted that this is not standard procedure for placing a volcano tile, according to 
the rules for The Princess and the Dragon. Under those rules placing a volcano tile does not allow the 
player to draw a second tile; instead, he or she may only perform actions not connected with follower 
deployment, such as moving the fairy or placing a tower piece. 
 
165  This sentence changed in HiG’s Big Box 2 to remove a previous ambiguity about whether the 
pig-herd tile could only be scored in addition to a pig. It is now clear that they can be scored 
independently or together. 
 
166  You do receive the bonus from the the pig-herd tile even if you don't have a pig on the farm. 
The pig herd is a neutral pig, so to speak. 
 
167  Question: Does the pig-herd tile still score an extra point when there is a barn on the farm 
(barn = 4 points, barn+pig-herd = 5 points per city)? Answer: The pig-herd tile only counts in 
connection with farmers, not the barn. 
 
168  The pig-herd tile can still score an extra point per city when there is a barn on the farm. 
 
169  There are no official rules for using two pig-herd tiles, as there are no rules for using two 
copies of The River II, and the similar GQ11 tile is not officially a pig-herd tile. However, if one farm 
has multiple pig-herd tiles, it seems that they should not stack; in other words, the bonus should only 
be awarded once, in keeping with other landscape bonuses such as inns and cathedrals. 
 
170  This paragraph was new in the HiG and RGG editions of Big Box 2, and is rather suggestive 
for a game of Mega-Carcassonne. See the Comments. 

 
The question of how to combine the various “starting” expansions of Carcassonne is a 
longstanding one, and Hans im Glück has changed its mind several times. 
 
The original rules for The Count of Carcassonne included the following clarification: “If the 
river is being used, then the spring tile should be placed next, and in such a way that the 
river leads away from the city.” Yet the rules still said that it was probably better not to 
use the expansions together, and this was the only piece of advice to make it into the 
introductory paragraph of its rules in Count, King and Consort: “It is not recommended to 
combine The Count of Carcassonne and The River II, as situations may arise in which it is 
impossible to place tiles properly.” 
 
As the note above this section indicates, this is no longer the recommended approach. 
Instead, one should always remember the rule from the basic game: “In the rare case that 
a tile cannot be placed anywhere, it is removed from the game, and the player draws 
another.” If the river winds around the City of Carcassonne in such a way that you cannot 
place the next tile (river or otherwise), the tile should be placed to one side, and another 
drawn. An interesting corollary of this is that the river does not have to be finished: if it is 
impossible to do so, you do not have to place the final lake tile, and a permanent gap in 
the playing field might arise (which could, of course, subsequently be filled by an abbey). 
 
This clearly has consequences beyond combining the two expansions mentioned. Though 
the rules still say that U-turns are not allowed, resolving such issues is now much more 
straightforward—no more need to defenestrate players who insist on making awkward tile 
placements. And it helps considerably in establishing what a game of Mega-Carcassonne 
should look like. 
 
Of course, some people will object that this rule destroys the aesthetics of the playing 
field. They might be right, and they are free to adopt a house rule which is more 
comfortable to them. But for the rules lawyers among us, this rule is an important 
development. 
 
 
Play the fork of the river first, and lay the spring last. The lakes are mixed in with the 
other river tiles. (Thanks to Joff). 
 
Rather than discarding the second fork (from The River II and Count, King and Consorts), 
mix it in with the other river tiles and place it normally when it is drawn. (Thanks to Scott). 
 
Pig-herds do not score a bonus. (Thanks to Joff). 
 
Play both rivers backwards starting with the city/lake. This is more realistic because you 
then get two springs producing rivers that join and flow ‘down’ to a lake. Discard two 
lakes—the plain one from The River and the volcano. To set up, place the lake tile, put 

one spring tile aside as a final ending tile, and then split the balance of the river tiles into 
two stacks. The junction tile is shuffled into stack 1 and the other spring into stack 2. Then 
the stack 1 is placed on stack 2—so that the junction will be drawn sometime before the 
spring. If playing with The Count of Carcassonne, place the city/lake so that it completes 
one of the small cities around Carcassonne. (Thanks to dwhitworth). 
 
Select only one lake tile and use two spring tiles. Lay the river in reverse order. The fork 
can be placed randomly, or at some predetermined point. The end result is two rivers 
flowing into one which then flows into a lake. (Thanks to Scott). 
 
Start from the fork, playing tiles on all three branches. Play the spring and lake tiles at the 
end, or mix two of the three with the rest of the river before play to have two of the three 
branches end randomly. (Thanks to Scott). 
 
Play with two forks and a straight river between them. The ends (two lakes, a spring and a 
volcano) then come out randomly. Makes for a big river, but with 300 or so tiles it works. 
(Thanks to revolushn). 
 
 
 
 x1 171 
 
 
 
 
171  The city bridge does not separate field segments. Only the river separates the field segments 
on this tile. Thus, there are 2 field segments on this tile. [This is logical, as similar city bridges in other 
expansions such as Abbey & Mayor do not divide the city underneath – Chris O.] (1/2013) 
 

The Tower (Expansion 4) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2006 
 
 18 new land tiles 
 30 tower pieces (in one neutral color) 
 1 tower as tile dispenser (Taking the tower apart is not recommended. The tiles 
can be drawn from the top as well as from the bottom. We recommend that the 
tiles are drawn from the top, since the fewer tiles there are in the tower, the 
greater the danger that the other tiles will fall out when they are drawn from the 
bottom.) 
 
 
Each player receives a number of tower pieces, according to the total number of players: 
 two players: ten pieces each 
 three players: nine pieces each 
 four players: seven pieces each 
 five players: six pieces each 
 six players: five pieces each 
 
 
1. Place a Tile 
 
The new land tiles are placed in the usual way. Apart from the tower foundations, there 
are no new elements on the tiles. 
 
 
 
 
 
tower 
foundations 
Notice that in the tile 
shown, the road over 
the bridge divides both 
farms. 

 
Instead of moving the fairy or deploying a follower, builder, or pig, a player may now 
decide to place one of his or her tower pieces on any tile with a tower foundation 
which is already in play, or on a tower which is already under construction;172 or to 
finish the construction of a tower by deploying a follower to the top of it.173 
 
Place a tower piece and take a prisoner 
 
Whenever a player places a tower piece, he or she may take one big174 or normal 
follower prisoner.175 176 177 Builders and pigs cannot be taken prisoner.178 Which followers 
can be captured depends on the height of the tower on which the tower piece was just 
placed. If the tower has one storey, the player has a choice of five tiles from which a 
follower can be taken prisoner: the tower tile itself, as well as the tiles which connect to it 
horizontally and vertically. 
 
If the tower is built to the second storey, then the player has nine opportunities for taking 
a prisoner. 
 
 
 
172  A bridge that would potentially span a tower foundation does not prevent the growth of that 
tower, and that a tower that was already present does not prevent bridge placement. If the two 
structures would interfere with each other, the tower pieces can be moved so that they are no longer 
on the tower foundation symbol. Both structures can then be placed without conflict. (11/2013) 
 
173  A follower cannot be placed on a tower foundation to prevent a tower being built. Only tower 
blocks can be placed on tower foundations. The tower can only be blocked when it already exists. 
 
174  The original rules did not mention big followers, but several FAQs stated that they are treated 
in exactly the same way as normal followers, as the new rules now describe. 
 
175  There is a slight change in the rules here. The original rules stated that it was possible to take 
“one follower of an opponent prisoner,” while the new rules only say that it is possible to take “one 
follower prisoner.” It is now quite possible for a player to choose to “capture” his or her own 
followers, contradicting an earlier FAQ. The RGG edition of the Big Box also changes this rule. 
 
176  Question: If you place a dragon tile and add a piece to a tower, what happens first: follower 
capture by the tower, or dragon movement? Answer: Prisoners are taken first; placing a tower piece 
is an alternative to deploying a follower, so occurs before dragon movement. 
 
177  Followers in castles are safe from towers, the dragon, and the plague. 
 
178  A previous FAQ stated that builders and pigs could indeed be taken prisoner, since they were 
followers at that time; however, under the current rules they are no longer considered to be followers, 
and thus they cannot be taken prisoner. 
 

With every piece placed on the tower, its range increases by four tiles.179 It is possible to 
take prisoners over ‘holes’ in the tile placement, as well as over other towers of any 
height.180 There is no limit to how high a tower may be built. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When the player takes a follower of another player prisoner, then the capturing player 
should place the prisoner clearly in front of themselves. If the player takes one of his or 
her own followers prisoner, it should be returned to the supply. Should the last thief, 
knight, or farmer of a player be removed from a road, city, or farm which includes the 
player's builder or pig, then the builder or pig is also removed and returned to the 
player.181 
 
 
 
 
 
179  In other words, the range of tiles in each direction away from the tower (not counting the 
tower tile itself) is equal to the number of tower pieces in the tower. 
 
180  Question: Can a shorter tower capture the follower from a taller tower, or does the tower 
need to be equal or greater in height? Answer: The height of the tower only determines the range of 
the ‘attack’ and has no other function. 
 
181  This is because builders and pigs are no longer considered to be followers, and they cannot 
remain in play independently. 
 
The RED player 
places the 
tower piece 
and takes 
the BLUE 
on tile 4 prisoner. 
The RED player places the
second tower piece and
now has the possibility
 to capture the
 GREEN follower
 on tile 1, the BLUE
 follower on tile 6, or the
YELLOW follower on tile 9.

Deploy a follower to a tower 
 
If a follower is deployed to the top of a tower,182 the construction of the tower 
is finished and it may not be built any further.183 The follower remains on top 
of the tower until the end of the game and is not removed or returned to the 
player unless eaten by the dragon184 185 or captured by another tower.186 187 
This action may be useful when a player wishes to protect a more valuable 
follower from capture. 
 
Prisoners 
 
Whenever two players have captured one of each other's followers, they are 
immediately exchanged and are so returned to their owners. No negotiation 
is necessary or allowed. The exchange is automatic!188 If one of the players has 
several prisoners belonging to the other player, the owner may decide which 
prisoner should be returned.189 
 
 
 
182  Strangely enough, this constitutes a marginal rule change, since under the old rules, builders 
and pigs were considered followers, and could as such be deployed to the top of towers—and this was 
confirmed in an FAQ! 
 
183  This is only true as long as the follower remains on the tower – it is the follower’s presence on 
the tower that halts tower growth, not the act of placement. If the follower is removed by the dragon 
or another tower, tower pieces can once again be added to the now-vacated tower. (11/2013) 
 
184  The fairy can be moved to a tile when the only follower on the tile is on a tower. 
 
185  The dragon eats all followers on a tile, even if one is in a tower. 
 
186  As far as the German rules are concerned, this is merely a clarification previously stated in the 
FAQ. However, with respect to the original English rules by Rio Grande Games, this is a significant rule 
change. The original German rules made no mention of whether a follower on a tower could be 
captured or not—and an FAQ confirmed that they could. However, the RGG translation explicitly 
stated that they could not. With the release of the Big Box set, however, RGG have themselves 
corrected that, bringing the two sets of rules in line once more. In all rule sets except the original 
print of The Tower by RGG, followers on towers can indeed be captured. 
 
187  Question: If the dragon can eat a follower on a tower, can the follower also be seduced by a 
princess? Answer: No: the tower is not a part of the city; they are two separate areas. 
 
188  The two sentences regarding negotiation and the automatic nature of the trade represent a 
clarification found in the RGG edition of the Big Box. 
 
189  This is also a new clarification not contained in the original rules. 
 

Furthermore, during their turn a player may decide to pay the ransom190 and buy back 
one prisoner from one opponent.191 In this case, the player should move their scoring 
marker on the scoreboard back three spaces, and the marker of the opponent forward 
three. This follower may then be deployed in the same turn. 
 
 
Towers cannot capture over empty tiles. (Thanks to viberunner) 
 
A captured meeple cannot be returned by payment of a ransom (the “Eye for an Eye” 
rule). (Thanks to keyofnight) 
 
A single-storey tower can only capture a follower on its own tile. Each additional storey 
adds an additional tile of range in each direction – the rate of increasing range is the same 
as the normal rules, but the starting point is less powerful (the “No Surprises” rule). 
(Thanks to keyofnight) 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 18 
 
 
 
 
190  The ransom for the big follower is not doubled. He may be big, but he's still only one person. 
 
191  Question: How often does prisoner buy-back occur in a “double turn” (e.g. just once, like 
fairy scoring, or twice, as part of a repeated step)? Answer: It happens once per turn. The double-
turn is [truly] only a single turn. 
 

The GQ #11 Expansion 
originally released in Games Quarterly in 2006 192 
 
 
 12 new land tiles including 1 spring tile. 
 
 
As advertised, the GQ11 expansion does contain “never-before seen tile configurations,” 
with the exception of the tile with a river and two city segments, which was previously 
available in The River. Most of these “new configurations” are trivial enough, such as the 
removal of a pennant or trade good, or a mirror-reversal of another tile. However, two of 
the tiles deserve more comment. 
 
The spring tile is obviously intended as a replacement for those included in The River and 
The River II. One of the common criticisms of those two expansions is that they lead to 
larger farms, and part of the reason is the farm goes all the way around the spring, 
officially at least.193 However, the spring tile included here has a road leading away from 
the spring, and so divides the farm.194 
 
No matter how many spring tiles you have you should still only use one to form a single 
river.195 
 
 
 
192  The original GQ11 expansion contains no rules. 
 
193  See notes in River and River II. 
 
194  The road ends in what looks like an inn; however, there is no lake, so it does not fulfil the 
requirements of Inns and Cathedrals for scoring points. 
 
195  Question: When the two River sets are combined, should we make two rivers (using the two 
springs) or discard one spring and one lake and make just one river? Answer: One spring and one 
lake are discarded. 
 

It should be noted that, officially, the ffff tile is not a pig-herd tile (see The River II for 
more details). This has been confirmed by Jay Tummelson of Rio Grande Games, the 
producer of this expansion.196 197 198 199 200 It may be possible to use the tile as if it were a 
pig-herd tile, but this would be a house rule, rather than an official rule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
196  Question: Do you have an official ruling? I understand from Hans im Glück that these are 
your tiles rather than theirs, so I guess you are the final arbiter! Answer: Yes, I am—and this is just 
a field —no special points for the pigs and cows in it—sorry. 
 
197  The ffff tile with a pig herd can be counted as a pig-herd tile (i.e. providing a bonus point per 
city) for the purposes of scoring farms. It could be counted as such even when not playing with the 
pig piece (Traders & Builders). 
 
198  There are no official rules for using two pig-herd tiles, as there are no rules for using two 
copies of The River II, and the similar GQ11 tile is not officially a pig-herd tile. However, if one farm 
has multiple pig-herd tiles, it seems that they should not stack; in other words, the bonus should only 
be awarded once, in keeping with other landscape bonuses such as inns and cathedrals. 
 
199  Question: Does the pig-herd tile still score an extra point when there is a barn on the farm 
(barn = 4 points, barn+pig-herd = 5 points per city)? Answer: The pig-herd tile only counts in 
connection with farmers, not the barn. 
 
200  The pig-herd tile can score an extra point per city when there is a barn on the farm. 
 

Abbey and Mayor (Expansion 5) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2007 
 
 
 12 new land tiles 
 6 abbey tiles 
 6 barns 
 6 wagons 
 6 mayors 
 
 
At the beginning of the game, every player 
receives one abbey tile and one mayor, 
one barn, and one wagon of the player's 
chosen color, and places these in his or 
her supply.201 With the exception of the 
following changes, the basic rules for 
Carcassonne remain unchanged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
201  Official status: The mayor and wagon are followers, subject to the usual rules of deployment 
and affecting the majority. The barn is a special figure, not a follower. 
 
This city has two separate segments. The city
with the pennant ends in the farm. This is 
particularly important when scoring the
The road is not broken. On one side the road
divides the farm; on the other side it does
not. This is particularly important when
scoring the farms.
The road touches the city, so that on these 
tiles there are three separate farm segments.
This tile has two separate city segments.
The road ends at the house.
The road does not end, but instead continues
in all three directions.

 
 
The new land tiles are placed in the usual way.202 203 204 
 
The abbey 
 
Instead of drawing and placing a land tile, a player may instead choose to 
place his or her abbey tile. 205 The abbey may be placed anywhere that 
precisely one land tile fits: that is, it can only be placed in a 'hole' in which 
all four sides are already bordered by land tiles.206 207 If there is no such 
'hole' available, the abbey cannot be placed. 
 
If one or more players have not placed their Abbey when the last landscape tile is drawn 
and placed, they may still do so, in clockwise order starting from the left of the person 
who placed the last tile, as long as it is in accordance with the rules. The game is then 
over.208 209 
 
 
 
 
202  In the case of the tile with the well and three roads, all of the roads have to be completed 
before scoring. 
 
203  With the three-way tile in Abbey and Mayor, the length of the road (e.g. for the purposes of 
the Robber Baron) is the total number of tiles in the road, not simply the longest distance between 
two ends. The road has three ends which have to be closed, but the result is that it’s likely to be 
bigger. 
 
204  In the examples for this expansion, the road with a tunnel does indeed count as being 
“broken” if one is using The Tunnel expansion, in which case the tile contains two as yet unconnected 
tunnel openings. 
 
205  If a player has an abbey left, draws the very last tile, and plays it to an feature where he or 
she has a builder, the abbey may be played on the second part of the double-turn (i.e. before the 
final round of abbey placement). 
 
206  The RGG edition clarifies this sentence by adding "(not the diagonals)". 
 
207  The rules that restrict the placement of cloisters next to already placed shrines also restrict 
the placement of Abbeys. 
 
208  This paragraph was added in HiG’s and RGG’s Big Box 2, and actually contradicts an earlier 
FAQ (which stated that the abbey tiles couldn’t be placed once the last landscape tile was drawn). 
 
209  When an abbey is played in this manner, a follower may be deployed to the abbey as usual. If 
the abbey is completely surrounded and thus immediately finished, the abbey is scored as in a normal 
turn. Then final scoring occurs. (5/2013) 

The player may deploy a follower to the abbey as a monk.210 211 212 
 
When a player has placed an abbey (and possibly deployed a follower), all four of the 
adjoining tiles are closed on those sides.213 214 215 All completed roads, cities and cloisters 
are then scored as usual.216 217 
 
Monks in abbeys are scored in the same way as in cloisters. 
 
 
 
 
 
210  The RGG has a slight change here, in that the final sentence of this section is moved here. 
 
211  When an abbey tile is placed, a follower cannot be deployed next to the abbey (as a knight, 
for example), as the abbey covers the whole tile. The surroundings are not a city. Thus, a follower on 
this tile is a monk. 
 
212  A shrine can challenge an abbey, and vice versa, because the abbey is also a cloister. 
 
213  If a player completes a feature with an Abbey tile and his or her builder is on the feature, the 
feature does not get “extended” by the Abbey (as the Abbey is a separate feature), so the player 
does not get another tile. 
 
214  Question: If cities with trade goods are completed by placement of an abbey tile, are the 
goods tokens awarded as usual to the player placing the abbey tile? Answer: Yes, as the player 
completed the city. 
 
215  The abbey also creates the boundary of a farm. 
 
216  A knight in a besieged city can escape via an abbey as well as a cloister, as the abbey has all 
the characteristics of a cloister. 
 
217  Mayors and wagons can also escape a besieged city via cloisters and abbeys (although it 
 
BLUE places the 
abbey and so 
completes the road 
with the RED follower. 
RED scores 1 point 
and returns the 
follower to he supply. 
The city below the 
abbey and the road to 
the right are still 
open. 

 
The mayor 
 
The mayor may be deployed instead of a follower. It may only be deployed to a 
city in which there is currently no knight or 
mayor;218 219 220 221 222 the usual rules for 
deploying followers still apply.223 224 225 
 
When scoring, the following is true: a normal follower has 
a strength of one; the big follower from Inns and 
Cathedrals has a strength of two. 
 
 
 
 
 
218  The RGG edition of Big Box 2 says instead “no knight or follower”. 
 
219  The mayor cannot be placed into a city that already contains a wagon. Both are followers 
(according to the definition in the rules), so the city is already occupied by the wagon. 
 
220  Any follower, including the Mayor, that is placed in a city is considered to be a knight. 
 
221  The mayor can be a flier. However, the mayor can only land on an unfinished city. If an 
unfinished city is not available on the tile where the mayor lands, the mayor returns to the player’s 
supply. (2/2013) 
 
222  The mayor can go through the magic portal. However, the mayor can only be placed in an 
unfinished and unclaimed city. (2/2013) 
 
223  The mayor and the wagon can be eaten by the dragon, captured by the tower, and seduced 
by a princess. The mayor and the wagon can be placed in the appropriate quarter of Carcassonne. 
The mayor and the wagon can use a magic portal. 
 
224  Question: Can the mayor, the wagon, or the barn be placed on top of a tower? Answer: No, 
 
225  The mayor cannot be placed in a castle. (2/2013) 
The mayor has a strength of three 
(for the three pennants). As such, 
BLUE scores 18 points for the city. 

The strength of the mayor is the same as the number of pennants in the city.226 
If the city has no pennants, then the mayor has a strength of zero and scores no points 
for the city.227 228 229 The score of the city is not changed by the mayor. After scoring, the 
mayor is returned to the player's supply. 
 
The wagon 
 
The wagon may be deployed instead of a normal follower. It may be 
deployed to a road, city, or cloister in which there is no other figure.230 231 232 
233 The wagon may never be deployed to a field segment. 
 
 
 
 
226  The RGG edition inserts the following clarification: “For example, if the city has 3 pennants, 
the mayor counts as 3 followers.” 
 
227  The qualification about scoring no points is new in HiG’s Big Box 2, and confirms an earlier 
FAQ. 
 
228  Question: Blue has a mayor in a city with no pennants. Does the city count as occupied? And 
if so, when the city is scored, will Blue score points? Answer: The city is occupied. The mayor has no 
“strength,” so he counts as if there is no follower, and scores no points. 
 
229  A mayor could end up in a castle, and the castle would be considered to be occupied. 
However, because castles have no pennants (similar to the above footnote), the player would receive 
no points when the castle was completed, as the strength of the followers in the castle would be 0. 
 
230  Instead of "no other figure," this should read "no other follower". 
 
231  The RGG edition changes “figure” to “no other wagon or follower.” This avoids confusion 
about the term “follower” but adds a distinction between “follower” and “wagon” which is not valid. 
 
232  The mayor and the wagon can be eaten by the dragon, captured by the tower, and seduced 
by a princess. The mayor and the wagon can be placed in the appropriate quarter of Carcassonne. 
The mayor and the wagon can use a magic portal. 
 
233  Question: Can the mayor, the wagon, or the barn be placed on top of a tower? Answer: No, 
 

If a feature occupied by a wagon is scored, the wagon counts as a normal follower. After 
scoring, the player may return the wagon to his or her supply, or may move the wagon to 
a directly adjacent road, city, or cloister.234 235 236 237 238 
 
 
 
 
 
234  Question: What is the definition of [connected/adjacent/neighboring] for the Wagon? If two 
city walls are touching (maybe even only at a point), can I drive my Wagon from one to another? 
Answer: “Connected” means roads which lead to crossings and roads which head directly “into” a 
city or a cloister. Two cities never connect to each other (in the current land tiles). City walls that 
touch at a point (such as at the corner of tiles) are not considered connected, so the wagon cannot 
travel from one to the other. Thus, the wagon has to use the roads to move. [Additionally, a road that 
touches a city at a point but not at a gate in the wall is not connected to the city. Also, a road running 
through a city via a tunnel is not connected to the city. – Chris O.] (confirmed 5/2013) 
 
235  The wagon cannot move directly from one city to the other on the tile shown above. There is 
a crossing between the two cities, and crossings belong to roads. Thus, for the wagon to move 
through the crossing, it would have had to have started on a road. The cities are not directly 
connected from wall to wall. The wagon cannot move to one of the “small roads”, either, as the rules 
clearly state that followers cannot be placed there. (8/2013) 
 
236  The wagon cannot drive through any feature to get to another feature. Features are any 
aspect of the tile that can be claimed by a follower or that triggers a function, including cloisters, 
bazaars, crop circles, fairs, etc. [Note: this represents a reversal of a previous clarification. Previously, 
unclaimable structures such as fairs were not considered features and could be driven through to a 
road on the other side.] (5/2013) 
 
237  A wagon can be placed on an abbey. Additionally, the wagon can drive onto a directly 
connected city or road after scoring (and the other way round, from city/road to abbey), as long as 
the target feature has not yet been completed. (confirmed 5/2013) 
 
238  The wagon can be moved from a city to a cloister that is within that city (or vice versa), as 
roads are not required for a “connection,” just a shared wall/edge/surface. (confirmed 5/2013) 
 
BLUE scores 4 points 
for the road and may 
immediately move the 
wagon to the cloister 
or road segment at the bottom. 
It may not be moved to the road 
 segment occupied by RED, and 
naturally not to the farm. 
BLUE scores 14 
points for the city 
and may 
immediately move 
the wagon to the 
road segment on 
the right. The 
wagon may not be 
moved to the 
completed road 
segment. 
The wagon is not allowed 
to move from one city to 
the other via the “small 
roads.” 

The feature into which the wagon is moved239 
must be incomplete and unoccupied.240 If none of 
the neighboring features are incomplete and 
unoccupied, the player must return the wagon to 
the supply.241 
 
If several wagons are involved in scoring, then 
each player decides whether to retrieve or move 
his or her wagon, beginning with the player 
whose turn it is and continuing clockwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
239  When moving a wagon to a new feature, the player can choose which tile to set it on. For 
example, if moving the wagon from a city to a road which so far consists of five tiles, the wagon can 
be placed on any of those tiles, not just the first tile that it gets to. For scoring this doesn't matter, 
but if a dragon or the plague happens to come by, the exact placement will make a big difference. 
 
240  The RGG version adds the following clarification: "A wagon always counts as though it were a 
follower during scoring." 
 
241  Question: Can you deploy a wagon to a city, score it, and then move the wagon to another 
feature, all in one turn? Or can you only move the wagon instead of deploying a normal follower? 
Answer: The wagon can be deployed instead of a normal follower. If the city is immediately 
completed, then it’s scored (wagon or “normal” follower). After scoring, the wagon can be moved. All 
of that is possible in a single turn. [Wagon movement is not in place of deployment.] 
 
BLUE scores 2 points
 for the road and
 may immediately 
move the wagon into 
the incomplete city. The wagon may 
not be moved to the road segment 
occupied by RED, nor to the 
completed road segment.
This is NOT a legal move for the 
wagon, as cities that have walls 
touching at a single point are NOT 
considered to be connected. Image 
from Carcassonne-Forum. 
With placement of the red-bordered tile, the wagon 
CANNOT move to the new city segment or either road 
segment on that tile, as it would have to pass through the 
crossing. To move to one of the roads, it would have to 
start from a road segment. A city can never be moved to 
or moved from through a crossing. Both “small roads” 
are illegal for follower placement. Thus, the only possible 
movement is to the road segment at the bottom of the 
image (assuming this isn’t claimed or completed). Image 
from Carcassonne Central. 

The Barn 
 
Placement 
 
The barn may be placed instead of a follower. It may only be placed on the point of 
intersection of four land tiles, one of which has just been placed by the player. The four 
land tiles must only consist of fields at this intersection point. 242 243 244 
 
The barn may also be placed 
on a farm on which there are 
already farmers, although not 
one on which there is already 
another barn.245 
 
The barn will remain where it 
is until the end of the game.246 
 
 
A barn cannot be removed by the dragon (from The Princess and the Dragon), nor taken 
prisoner by a tower (from The Tower). 
 
 
 
 
242  The barn cannot be placed in Carcassonne. The barn cannot use a magic portal. 
 
243  Question: Can the mayor, the wagon, or the barn be placed on top of a tower? Answer: No, 
 
244  The barn can be placed on a tile with a volcano. 
 
245  The RGG edition omits this last sentence about other barns. 
 
246  The fairy cannot be placed next to the barn, as the barn is not a follower. 
 
The barn 
may not be 
placed on the right-
hand picture. The 
city at the bottom 
lies on the 
intersection point 
of the four tiles. 

Scoring when placing a barn 
 
Any farmers already on the farm are scored 
immediately, in the same way as at the end of the 
game.247 That is, the player or players with the 
majority of farmers score the usual 3 points for every 
completed city.248 It makes no difference whether 
the owner of the barn is involved in scoring or not.249 
 
Then the players return the farmers to their 
supply.250 
 
(If Traders and Builders is being used, a farmer with 
a pig receives the usual 4 points for every completed 
city. The pig is then also returned to the player's 
supply.) 
 
 
 
247  Placing of a barn, and the subsequent scoring of the farm, does count as an opportunity to 
remove a follower from Carcassonne. Now that farms can be scored at times other than at the end of 
the game, followers from the market can be moved to farms earlier in the game. That occurs 
immediately after the placement of the barn, and before the farmers are scored. [Joining of a farm 
containing a follower to a farm with a barn would logically be another opportunity – Chris O.] 
 
248  A besieged city does still score double points if it lies on a farm with a barn. 
 
249  Question: If I place a barn on a farm on which another player has farmers, causing him/her 
to score while I score nothing, can I move a follower to Carcassonne? (While there is no immediate 
score to me now, the barn is certain to score at the end of the game). Answer: Yes, that’s allowed. 
Only immediately scored points matter. 
 
250  The RGG edition adds that "the barn, however, remains". 
 
The BLUE barn is 
placed; YELLOW 
scores 6 points 
for the two 
completed cities 
and returns the 
farmer to the 
supply. 

Scoring when a farm is connected 
 
No farmer may be deployed to a farm with 
a barn.251 If the placement of a tile results 
in a farm with farmers being connected to a 
farm with a barn, the farmers are scored 
immediately.252 253 However, the player with 
the majority of farmers scores only 1 point 
for every completed city (with a pig: 2 
points instead of 1.)254 These farmers are 
then also returned to their owners after 
scoring. 
 
 
 
Scoring barns 
At the end of the game, the owner of a barn scores 4 points for every completed city 
adjacent to the farm.255 If several barns lie on a single farm through the placement of 
connecting tiles, each player receives the full score. The pig-herd tile (from The River II) 
does not generate any additional points for the barn.256 257 
 
 
251  The RGG further clarifies this as follows: "There may only be one barn on each farm. Of 
course, connecting two farms, each with a barn, is quite legal." 
 
252  The word “immediately” here means that farmers are scored then removed during the 
normal scoring phase of this turn (as opposed to staying on the farm until the end of the game). 
The joining of farms does not stop play for a separate scoring phase for the farmers. Thus, the 
normal “move wood” portion of the turn occurs before the farmers are scored. (10/2012) 
 
253  Because this joining of farms is a scoring situation, a follower can be moved from 
Carcassonne to the farm with a barn. The farmer will be scored immediately, and so scores only 1 
point per city and is (importantly) not on the farm during the final scoring proper. 
 
254  Question: May the pig be placed on a farm that was just connected to a farm with a barn, 
i.e. on the newly placed tile (immediately before scoring)? Answer: Yes, the pig may be placed in 
already occupied features [and, as above, the normal “move wood” phase still happens]. 
 
255  The RGG edition adds "regardless of their distance from the barn". This is probably to help 
introduce players to 3rd edition scoring. 
 
256  The last sentence is new to the Big Box 2 and confirms an earlier FAQ. The statement is not in 
Big Box 3, presumably because The River II is not included in this collection. 
 
257  The pig-herd tile can score an extra point per city when there is a barn on the farm. 
 
Through the 
placement of the 
new tile, the RED 
farmer is 
connected with the 
farm belonging to 
the BLUE barn. 
RED scores 2 
points for the two 
completed cities 
and retrieves the 
farmer. 

 
 
Wagons are only allowed to be used in cloisters (and shrines) if the tile also contains a 
road. This means that the wagon cannot be used in an abbey. (Thanks to dwhitworth). 
 
The wagon can move to the next complete, or uncontested and incomplete, feature. This 
lets it roll across the board to uncontested features. (Thanks to viberunner). 
 
The mayor cannot be captured by the tower. (Thanks to viberunner). 
 
The wagon cannot be eaten by the dragon or captured by the tower. (Thanks to 
viberunner). 
 
The wagon can be used in ‘non-roaded’ features. It can move from the abbey to a 
touching city or road (one move, one turn) but it cannot do so from a cloister that touches 
only a farm. (Thanks to viberunner). 
 
The mayor is laid flat in the same way as farmers so that you can tell at a glance which 
cities contain mayors. (Thanks to Joff). 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Count, King, and Robber (Expansion 6) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2008 
 
Extra Pieces – Included Small Expansions 
 
 King & Robber Baron 
 The Count of Carcassonne 
 The River II 
 Shrines and Heretics 
 
 
The Count, King, and Robber expansion represents a collection of several independently 
released small expansions as listed above. Because of the complex publishing history of 
Carcassonne in various countries, this collection may be the only way to acquire some or 
all of these smaller expansions, and it is one of the officially numbered larger expansions, 
so I have given it a page of its own. However, I refer the reader to the specific small 
expansion sections for further information. 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2008 258 
 
 
 5 new land tiles 
 
The five shrine tiles should be mixed in with the other tiles. 
 
 
Shrines are placed and scored in the same way as a 
cloister.259 However, a shrine may not be placed in such a way that it adjoins several 
cloisters.260 Similarly, a cloister may not be placed so that it neighbors several shrines.261 
262 263 
 
 
 
 
 
258  This expansion was originally released in 2008 as part of the Count, King, and Consorts 
collection, along with the previously released King and Robber Baron, The Count of Carcassonne, and 
The River II. Rather than subsume the older expansions under a new heading, I have chosen to leave 
them in their original place and only list the new part of the expansion here, as if it were a mini-
expansion in its own right. However, the rules used for the older expansions are those from the HiG 
release of King, Count, and Consorts release. The rules here have also be re-formatted in the Big Box 
style. 
 
259  A knight in a besieged city from The Cathars can escape via a shrine, as with a cloister. The 
shrines are, for the most part, identical to cloisters. That goes for escape as well. 
 
260  In other words, a shrine cannot adjoin more than one cloister, and vice versa. 
 
261  Question: Can I place a shrine in such a way that it forces a cloister to neighbor several 
shrines? What effect does that have? Answer: It leads to enormous problems when multiple cloisters 
and shrines neighbor each other. [In other words, no, you can’t place a shrine in that way—ed.] 
 
262  The rules that restrict the placement of cloisters next to already placed shrines also restrict 
the placement of abbeys. 
 
263  Because the problems arise when there are multiple simultaneous challenges, one could allow 
placement of further shrines or cloisters into the area as long as no followers are placed on those 
cloisters/shrines (i.e. there are no further challenges). 
 

 
A follower deployed to a shrine is called a heretic. If a player places a shrine directly 
(horizontally, vertically, or diagonally) next to the cloister264 of another player265 and 
deploys a heretic to it, a challenge is laid down to the monk. The same is true when a 
monk is deployed to a cloister directly next to a heretic.266 Challenging your own monk or 
heretic is also possible.267
 
 
When a player places a shrine tile, he or she may, as usual, choose to deploy a follower to 
the farm, road, or city segment of the tile, instead of to the shrine itself.268 
 
3. Score completed roads, cities, or cloisters 
 
The challenge 
 
The challenge is about who can finish his or her building first.269 270 
 
 
 
 
264  A shrine can challenge an abbey, and vice versa, because the abbey is also a cloister. 
 
265  The RGG edition of Count, King & Robber changes this to “When a heretic is placed on a 
shrine adjacent (orthogonally or diagonally) to an occupied monastery, a challenge occurs.” Because 
the part about “another player,” was removed, the final sentence in this paragraph regarding one’s 
own monk/heretic became unnecessary and was also removed. (12/2013) 
 
266  The RGG edition of Big Box 2 adds, ‘That is, the monk must challenge the heretic.’ 
 
267  This sentence is omitted in the RGG version. 
 
268  The RGG version adds that a player may also “choose to place no follower at all on the tile.” 
 
269  If the tile placed completes both the shrine and the cloister, no one completed the building 
first, and both receive the points. 
 
270  Question: Imagine I have an unoccupied cloister next to an occupied shrine. I place a tile 
with a magic portal which completes both buildings, and choose to use the magic portal to deploy a 
monk to the cloister. Does this declare a challenge, and if so, who wins? Answer: Then it’s a 
challenge which ends in a draw. 
 

The player who finishes his or her feature first scores 9 points, 271 while the other player 
scores nothing.272 273 Both followers are then returned to their owners.274 
 
 
Scoring incomplete roads, cities and cloisters 
 
If a challenge has not been resolved by the end of the game, both players receive the 
usual points awarded for incomplete cloisters. 
 
 
It should be mentioned that there has never been an expansion to Carcassonne called 
Shrines and Heretics. The five land tiles described here originally appeared in the Count, 
King, and Consorts collection of 2008, along with some of the earlier mini-expansions. The 
rules here are based on that release. 
 
The tiles were quickly reprinted in the Spielbox publication of the same year, but with 
different logos (a pentagon rather than a crown). These Spielbox tiles hardly warrant a 
new section in the rules, and there is some debate about whether they should really be 
considered an expansion at all. Nevertheless, I have chosen to list them separately in the 
Consolidated Tile Reference below. 
 
 
 
 
 
271  The RGG edition adds a clarification here: “Once a challenge has been declared, the player (of 
those two involved in the challenge) who first completes his cult place or cloister scores 9 points as 
normal.” 
 
272  Question: If the fairy is on the same tile as the losing heretic or monk in a challenge, does 
someone has won), both followers are returned to the player, so no one stands next to the fairy.[At 
 
273  Question: Say I have a heretic engaged in a challenge with a monk, and I place the tile 
which completes the monk's cloister, so that the monk scores 9 points and I score 0. Can I still move 
a follower to Carcassonne in this case? Answer: Yes, triggered scoring, received no points: conditions 
 
274  When a challenge is resolved, both the monk and heretic are removed from play. If that 
leaves one of the buildings incomplete, it can be reoccupied by using a magic portal or a follower 
from Carcassonne. 
 

Finally, RGG released the tiles as a part of the Cult, Siege and Creativity mini-collection, 
along with an additional crfr tile. RGG chose to call the tiles “cult places”275, although the 
rules for their use are identical. I feel that this collection does deserve its own section in 
the rules, and you will find the tile distribution list and further comments there. 
 
 
 
To raise the stakes of a challenge between shrines and cloisters, and to make it more 
worthwhile to risk the chance of getting no points, the winning challenger receives the 
points for both structures while the loser still receives nothing. If promoting more 
aggressive play, the challenger could be the only one playing for the reward. (Thanks to 
youtch and others. Thanks to RationalLemming, and to avt104981 for pointing out that 
this can’t result in 18 points.) 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
275  A few points on translation from Matt: I should point out why I decided to go with 'shrine' as a 
translation of Kultstlitte, while RGG and the BGG game summary uses 'cult places'. The correct 
translation— according to my Collins dictionary—should actually be 'place of worship'. Kult is a false 
friend, which can mean both 'cult' and 'worship'—so, for example, Kultbild means 'religious symbol' 
and Kultsprache means 'language of worship'. Also, 'shrine' seemed to be the best word to describe 
the drawing on the tiles themselves. 
 
The 'plot element' here seems to be that the heretics are taking over places of worship, rather than 
building up secular strongholds... 
 

Cult, Siege, and Creativity 
originally released by Rio Grande Games in 2008 
 
 
 10 land tiles 
 2 blank tiles 
 
The 10 new landscape tiles should be mixed in with the other tiles. 
 
RGG's Cult, Siege, and Creativity release is at once a collection and a new expansion, and 
certainly warrants its own section in these rules. It comprises the three elements described 
below. 
 
The Cult Place and the Heretic 
The six tiles here are a reprint of the five Shrines and Heretics tiles, plus an additional 
crfr tile. 
 
The Siege 
This four siege tiles seem to be a reprint of The Cathars—but are they? To be sure, the 
layout of the tiles is the same, but the drawings are entirely new (and rather nice). They 
do not contain the Cathar symbol, but the rules for their use is almost the same. 
 
Copyright prevented The Cathars from being reprinted by anyone except Spielbox, and 
the siege tiles are RGG's rather elegant solution. They are effectively The Cathars in all 
but name; nevertheless, I would consider them a separate expansion, rather like relation 
between The River and The River II, and a welcome addition at that. 
 
The only difference in the rules concerns escape: in The Cathars, a cloister must be placed 
directly adjacent to a Cathar tile to allow a knight to escape; whereas RGG's rules for 
siege tiles say that a cloister must be placed adjacent to any tile of a besieged city. For 
the sake of consistency, I'd advise selecting one of these rules for both Cathar and siege 
tiles at the start of play; personally, I'd be tempted to adopt the RGG rule here, simply 
because it makes escape much more viable. 
 
Creativity 
The so-called ‘creativity’ tiles are really just two blank tiles for use in any way you see fit. 
Replacements for lost tiles, a ‘200' score tile, a joker of some kind, or fan-made 
expansions might be some of the possible uses. 
 
 
 

The Cult Place and the Heretic 
 
 
Cult places are placed and scored in the same way as a cloister.276 However, a cult place 
may not be placed in such a way that it adjoins several cloisters.277 Similarly, a cloister 
may not be placed so that it neighbors several cult places.278 279 280 
 
 
A follower deployed to a cult place is called a heretic. If a player places a cult place directly 
(horizontally, vertically, or diagonally) next to the cloister281 of another player and deploys 
a heretic to it, a challenge is laid down to the monk. The same is true when a monk is 
deployed to a cloister directly next to a heretic.282 Challenging your own monk or heretic is 
also possible.283
 
 
When a player places a cult place tile, he or she may, as usual, choose to deploy a 
follower to the farm, road, or city segment of the tile, instead of to the cult place itself.284 
 
 
 
276  A knight in a besieged city from The Cathars can escape via a cult place, as with a cloister. 
The cult places are, for the most part, identical to cloisters. That goes for escape as well. 
 
277  In other words, a cult place cannot adjoin more than one cloister, and vice versa. 
 
278  Question: Can I place a cult place in such a way that it forces a cloister to neighbor several 
cult places? What effect does that have? Answer: It leads to enormous problems when multiple 
cloisters and cult places neighbor each other. [In other words, no, you can’t place a cult place in that 
way—ed.] 
 
279  The rules that restrict the placement of cloisters next to already placed cult places also 
restrict the placement of abbeys, 
 
280  Because the problems arise when there are multiple simultaneous challenges, one could allow 
placement of further cult places or cloisters into the area as long as no followers are placed on those 
cloisters/cult places (i.e. there are no further challenges). 
 
281  A cult place can challenge an abbey, and vice versa, because the abbey is also a cloister. 
 
282  The RGG edition of Big Box 2 adds, ‘That is, the monk must challenge the heretic.’ 
 
283  This sentence is omitted in the RGG version. 
 
284  The RGG version adds that a player may also “choose to place no follower at all on the tile.” 
 

3. Score completed roads, cities, or cloisters 
 
The challenge 
 
The challenge is about who can finish his or her building first.285 286 
 
The player who finishes his or her feature first scores 9 points, 287 while the other player 
scores nothing.288 289 Both followers are then returned to their owners.290 
 
 
Scoring incomplete roads, cities, and cloisters 
 
If a challenge has not been resolved by the end of the game, both players receive the 
usual points awarded for incomplete cloisters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
285  If the tile placed completes both the cult place and the cloister, no one completed the building 
first, and both receive the points. 
 
286  Question: Imagine I have an unoccupied cloister next to an occupied cult place. I place a tile 
with a magic portal which completes both buildings, and choose to use the magic portal to deploy a 
monk to the cloister. Does this declare a challenge, and if so, who wins? Answer: Then it’s a 
challenge which ends in a draw. 
 
287  The RGG edition adds a clarification here: “the player (of those two involved in the challenge) 
who first completes his cult place or cloister scores 9 points as normal.” 
 
288  Question: If the fairy is on the same tile as the losing heretic or monk in a challenge, does 
someone has won), both followers are returned to the player, so no one is stood next to the fairy.[At 
 
289  Question: Say I have a heretic engaged in a challenge with a monk, and I place the tile 
which completes the monk's cloister, so that the monk scores 9 points and I score 0. Can I still move 
a follower to Carcassonne in this case? Answer: Yes, triggered scoring, received no points: conditions 
 
290  When a challenge is resolved, both the monk and heretic are removed from play. If that 
leaves one of the buildings incomplete, it can be reoccupied by using a magic portal or a follower 
from Carcassonne. 
 

The Siege 
 
 
The four normal land tiles should be mixed in with the other land tiles. Except for the 
 
 
Cities which contain tiles with a siege are said to be besieged. Whenever a besieged city is 
completed during the course of play, each tile scores only 1 point instead of the usual 2.291 
If the city contains a cathedral, it scores only 2 points for every tile. Should the city remain 
incomplete at the end of the game, it scores no points during the final scoring. 
 
It is possible to escape a besieged city via a neighboring cloister.292 293 If a cloister directly 
borders any tile of a besieged city, even diagonally—then at the end of a player's turn, he 
or she may remove one knight294 from the city and return it to the supply.295 
 
 
 
 
 
291  Every city tile and every pennant (true, that could have been mentioned in the rules) earns 
one point, or two points with the cathedral. The word "only" is purely quantitative, referring to the 
points value alone. As such the change to the usual rules is as small as possible. 
 
292  A knight in a besieged city can escape via an abbey, shrine, or cloister. The abbey has all the 
characteristics of a cloister. The shrines are, for the most part, identical to cloisters, which goes for 
escape as well. 
 
293  Mayors and wagons in a besieged city can also escape via cloisters and abbeys (although it 
 
294  Only one knight can escape a besieged city per turn. It’s irrelevant whether the followers are 
 
295  Question: Can I simply free a knight after a turn, if a cloister borders [a besieged city], or do 
conditions (cloister next to a besieged city) are fulfilled. A player is not obliged to build onto the city, 
nor onto the cloister. He or she must simply have a knight in the city. 
 

 
 
farm, or 8 points for a farm with a pig.296 
 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 10 (excluding 2 blank tiles) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
296  A player does still score double points for a besieged city if it lies on a farm with a barn. 
 

The Catapult (Expansion 7) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2008 
 
Time for the yearly fair in Carcassonne! Travelling entertainers arrive in the region, 
bringing with them their latest acquisition: a catapult, which they use to perform all sorts 
of reckless yet marvellous stunts. That not everything goes according to plan is hardly 
worth mentioning... 
 
 12 new land tiles with fairs 
 24 catapult tokens 
 1 wooden catapult 
 1 ruler 
 
 
The 12 new land tiles should be mixed in with the other land tiles. The catapult should be 
put to one side and the ruler placed next to it. Every player then receives one catapult 
token of each type—a total of four for each player. 
 
 
The players draw and place tiles according to the usual rules.297 298 
 
The fair 
When a land tile with a fair299 is drawn, it should be placed as usual and 
the player should fully complete his or her turn. The game is then 
interrupted for a ‘catapult round’. 
The player whose turn was just 
completed selects one of four 
catapult tokens and hurls it using 
the catapult. Proceeding clockwise, the other 
players must then take the same kind of catapult 
token from their supply and hurl it in the same 
 
 
297  The yellow ground of a fair ends a road. This is slightly different from crossings or bushes, as 
the wagon cannot cross a fair to the other side, since it is a feature. (modified 10/2013) 
 
298  Question: Do the yellow areas split the (green) field in two (tile with cloister and tile with two 
opposing city segments)? Answer: If the (green) field is disconnected, the fair does split it. 
 
299  Question: Can the wagon “drive by” a fair, or rather does a fair split a road at all? Answer: 
The fair is a “feature,” so the wagon cannot pass through it. (modified 10/2013) 

manner as the first player. Each player may only have one attempt. 
 
The effects of the various catapult tokens are listed below. 
 
After the catapult round all catapult tokens are returned to their owners, and the game 
continues clockwise from the next player. 
 
The catapult tokens 
 
Knock out—remove followers 
 
The aim is to hit, if possible, other players' followers on the playing 
field.300 Should a follower be hit or touched by this token—whether or 
not the follower is knocked over—then this follower must be 
immediately retrieved by its owner and returned to the supply. If 
several followers are hit by the token they are all returned to their 
respective owners. Followers belonging to the player who hurled the token must be also 
retrieved. Furthermore, chain-reactions are allowed: if a follower is knocked over and hits 
another follower in the process, both must be removed from play. 
 
Seduction—follower exchange 
 
This token only has an effect when it comes to rest on at least one 
landscape tile on the playing field.301 If it does not come to rest on the 
playing field, it must be returned to the player immediately. If the token 
comes to rest on the playing field, then the players determine which 
opponent’s follower is closest to the token. 302 In cases which are 
unclear the ruler should be used to measure the precise distance. The 
player who hurled the token may then swap this follower for one of his or her own. This 
exchange may be made with either a follower from the player's supply, or with a follower 
which is already in play. The exchanged follower is returned to its owner. 
 
 
 
 
 
300  The playing field includes the normal tiles and “starting tiles”. This means that followers within 
the school, City of Carcassonne, and Wheel of Fortune can be hit and removed. The special characters 
such as the count or the teacher stay in their area. However, followers on the scoring board should 
not be taken, as this is chaos. So, the scoring board here does not belong to the playing field. 
 
301  The RGG edition adds the following clarification: “If it slides off the map, it has no effect!” 
 
302  The playing field includes the normal tiles and “starting tiles”. This means that followers within 
the school, City of Carcassonne, and Wheel of Fortune can be hit and removed. The special characters 
such as the count or the teacher stay in their area. However, followers on the scoring board should 
not be taken, as this is chaos. So, the scoring board here does not belong to the playing field. 
 

Target hurling—fair contest 
 
With this token, all players must try to hit the fair tile which triggered 
the current catapult round when it was placed. Whoever hurls the 
token closest to that fair tile wins the target practice and immediately 
scores 5 points. If the winner is unclear, the ruler should be used for a 
precise measurement; in the case of a tie, each tied player earns 5 
 
Catch—one hurls, the other catches 
 
The player hurling the token should place the ruler half-way between him- 
or herself and the player on the left. Then he or she must attempt to hurl 
the token at least as far as the ruler, while the other player must attempt 
to catch it. The following situations may arise: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The player on the left then must hurl the token toward the player to his or her left. Repeat 
until all players have had a chance to be hurler and catcher. 
 
 
Ignore all the usual Catapult rules, and instead award 5 points immediately to any player 
who draws a fair tile out of the bag and deploys a follower to it. Note that it must be one 
of the normal followers—it cannot be a big follower, mayor, or wagon. (Thanks to 
Johngee.) 
 
 
 
Not caught—but far enough
Not caught—and not far enough
Touched—but not caught
Caught 

 
 x1 303 
 
 
 
 
 
 
303  Only the yellow ground of a fair can separate field segments; thus, the flagpole does not 
divide the field. 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2009 
 
 
 72 land tiles, 19 of which have Wheel of Fate icons 
 1 Wheel of Fortune (4x4 tiles)304 305 306 
 1 big pink pig 
 
 
The precise status of this set is difficult to define, as it is both a stand-alone game and an 
expansion. That is, it contains enough pieces and figures to be used instead of the basic 
game, but it could also be used along with it. For example, it contains a scoreboard and 40 
followers in 5 colors. Those who consider it to be ‘too much of a stand-alone' game might 
consider just using the 19 tiles with Wheel of Fortune icons. The rules are identical to the 
basic game, except for those noted below. 
 
 
The Wheel of Fortune tile is placed in the middle of the table. The big pig should be placed 
on the ‘fortune' section of the wheel, its nose pointed to the right. This tile is also the 
starting tile, which land tiles must be connected to at the beginning of the game (and may 
be later as well). All land segments on this tile count towards scoring as usual. 
 
 
1a) The player must draw a new land tile. 
If a tile with a Wheel of Fortune icon is drawn, the appropriate actions are performed (see 
below). 
 
1b) The player must place the land tile. 
 
 
 
304  The dragon can fly around the outside of the Wheel of Fortune, treating the landscape areas 
as normal tiles and eating any followers on those tiles. Followers on the Wheel of Fortune itself are 
unaffected. This represents a notable change from previous FAQs. (10/2012) 
 
305  Followers can be deployed to Wheel of Fortune tiles on features outside the Wheel of 
Fortune, for example through use of a magic portal or as a flier. (1/2013) 
 
306  Given new interpretations regarding placement of the dragon and followers on features outside 
the Wheel of Fortune, it seems that the plague should also be allowed on the outside portion of 

 
BLUE receives for 
each knight 
2(knight) + 2 
(pennants) = 4 
points, or 2x4 = 8 
points altogether. 
RED receives 1 
(knight) + 2 
(pennants) = 3 
If a player has not placed a follower on a land tile, he or she may 
place one follower on any free crown space on the Wheel of Fortune. 
No more than one follower may be placed on a crown space. 
 
Wheel of Fortune Tiles 
 
When a player draws a land tile with a colored Wheel of Fortune icon, it 
should be placed in front of him- or herself. Then the following actions occur: 
 
1. The big pig is moved around the wheel sectors the same number of times as shown on 
the icon. 
2. The events of the Wheel of Fortune are performed 
3. Followers on crown spaces are scored and returned 
4. The land tile is placed and a follower may be deployed (in other words, the turn 
continues as normal) 
 
1. Move the pig 
 
The player moves the big pig forward as many wheel segments as the 
number on the tile which was drawn. The pig is always moved clockwise 
around the wheel. 
 
2. Perform Events 
 
The Wheel of Fortune has six sectors. Each 
represents a distinct event. Only the sector on which 
the big pig ended its movement is activated. The 
fortune event affects only the player whose turn it 
is, while the others affect all 
players. 
 
Fortune 
The player whose turn it is receives 
3 points. 
 
Tax 
Every player receives points for his knights.307 For each knight, the player 
earns 1 point for each pennant in the city plus 1 point for each of his 
knights in the city. 
 
 
 
 
307  Any follower that is placed in a city, including the Mayor or a Wagon, is considered to be a 
knight. 
 

Famine 
For each of his or her farmers,308 every player receives 1 point for every 
completed city adjacent to his or her farm (in the same way as farms 
are scored during final scoring).309 310 
 
Storm 
Every player receives 1 point for every follower currently in his or her 
supply. 
 
 
Inquisition 
Every player receives 2 points for each monk. 
 
 
Plague 
Every player must return 1 follower from a land tile to his or her supply. 
Followers may not be removed from a crown space. The player whose 
turn it is removes a follower first, and the other players follow in a 
clockwise order. 
 
 
3. Score followers on crown spaces 
Now the crown spaces in the active sector are scored. Followers on segments which the 
pig passed are not scored and remain where they are. 
 
A follower which stands on the only crown space in a sector scores 3 
 
A follower which stands alone on a crown space in a sector with two 
spaces scores 6 points. 
 
If two followers stand in a sector with two spaces, each follower scores 3 
points—even if both followers belong to the same player. After the points 
have been allocated, followers are returned to their owners. 
 
 
 
 
308  Barns do not receive a score for Famine. Barns are not followers, so they are not farmers. 
(5/2013) 
 
309  Castles are also counted in this determination, and actually give 2 points per farmer. 
 
310  The text outside the parentheses is correct – each farmer scores 1 point for each completed 
city adjacent to the farm. The portion inside parentheses indicates that only a player with a majority 
on the farm is allowed to score the points. Additionally, additional bonus points for pig, pig herd, or 
castle are also given, as at the end of the game. (confirmed 5/2013) 
 

4. Complete the turn 
 
Now the player whose turn it is may place the land tile and deploy a follower to it as he or 
she wishes. The follower may also be deployed (again) to a crown plinth on the Wheel of 
Fortune. 
 
 
Do not use the Wheel of Fortune as the starting tile, placing it instead to one side (for 
example, next to the scoreboard). The principle benefit of this is to preserve the integrity 
of the playing area, since every other visible feature is at least semi-realistic. You might 
also consider turning the tile over and using the more abstract design on the reverse. 
 
 
 

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 72 
 
 x7 
 
 
Tiles with underlined values exist in several forms that vary only by the number in the 
Wheel of Fortune icon. 
 
 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2009 311 
 
 
 4 land tiles 
 12 tunnel tokens 
 
 
The four land tiles are mixed with those of the basic game. Every player receives the 
tunnel tokens corresponding to his or her color. In games of two, each player may use 
three sets of tokens; in games with three players, each may use two sets.312 
 
All the rules of the basic game are valid, with the following additions. 
 
 
Claim tunnels with tokens 
 
During his or her turn, a player may place one of his or her tunnel tokens on any currently 
unclaimed313 tunnel opening, including on the land tile which has just been placed. 
Independent of this, the rules for deploying a follower remain the same.314 
 
When is an underground tunnel finished? 
 
As long as there is no tunnel token claiming a tunnel opening, the road leading to it is 
“broken off,” without being complete.315 The road remains incomplete even when a tunnel 
 
 
311  For The Tunnel we have three sets of rules to draw on: those originally published in Spielbox; 
a set on Hans im Glück’s website; and, based on that, an English translation on the Spielbox website. 
I have used those of Hans im Glück as a basis for this section, although I will point out any 
differences between versions as necessary. 
 
312  The rules published in Spielbox say that in games of two, each may take two sets of chips. 
 
313  The rules say “unoccupied”, but I feel it is worth making a distinction between occupying (with 
a meeple) and claiming (with a token). 
 
314  This last sentence does not occur in the published Spielbox; it clarifies that a player may both 
deploy a follower and place a tunnel token in the same turn. 
 
315  This and the next section are greatly revised from the rules published in Spielbox, clarifying a 
number of issues. 

token is placed on the tile. Only when the second tunnel token of the same color is placed 
on another unclaimed tunnel opening (which may or may not be on the same tile) are the 
tunnel “entrance” and “exit” defined, and the tunnel finished.316 The road then runs 
underground through the tunnel, but is not completed at the tunnel exit. The road is 
completed in the usual way, such as by reaching a crossing. 
 
The colour of the tunnel tokens is only important for linking two tunnel openings. Indeed, 
the tunnel is built for everyone; for example, a thief of another colour can score a road 
which goes through a finished tunnel. In extreme cases, a road may lead underground 
several times in a row.317 
 
Scoring 
 
Only the visible segments of a completed road are scored.318 The 
following sequence, for example, would score 6 points (or 12 with an 
inn): 
 
1. tile with a road leading from a city gate 
2. tile with a curved road 
3. tile with a tunnel portal 
4. tile with a tunnel exit 
5. tile with a straight road 
6. tile with a crossing 
 
After scoring, the tunnel tokens remain where they are, so that at 
most five tunnels (or six with tunnels from other expansions) can be 
built. 
 
 
 
 
316  The rules only mention that the tunnel entrance and exit are “defined” but I feel it is worth 
making a distinction between a road being completed, and a tunnel being finished. The Spielbox 
English translation does not, and is potentially confusing. 
 
317  The Spielbox English rules add that a road may “[pass] behind other roads underground.” I’m 
inclined to think that this is a mistranslation of “hintereinander,” or “in a row.” 
 
318  It would seem logical that if the “entrance” and “exit” of a tunnel are on the same tile, they 
should only count as a single point for scoring, just as two segments of a city on a single tile only 
count as 1 tile for scoring purposes. 
 

Other Expansions 
Tiles from other expansions, such as Princess and Dragon, which also depict tunnels, can 
also be used with the rules for the Spielbox tunnel expansion; as such, the openings can 
be claimed with tokens. In this case the road leading through the tunnel does not count as 
continuous, contrary to the stated rules. 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 4 
 
 

Bridges, Castles, and Bazaars (Expansion 8) 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2010 
 
Travelling traders arrive in the land and organize bazaars, in which haggling is considered 
an art. At the same time, engineers are expanding the road network with modern bridges, 
and small castles are being built everywhere to defend the region. 
 
 
 12 new land tiles 
 12 castle tokens 
 12 wooden bridges 
 
 
The twelve new land tiles should be mixed with those of the basic game. Over the course 
of play they will be drawn and placed according to the usual rules. 
 
Every player receives bridges and castles: 
 
 With two to four players, each receives three bridges and three castles. 
 With five or six players, each receives two bridges and two castles. 
 
All the rules for Carcassonne remain the same, except for the following additions. 
 
 
The players draw and place tiles according to the usual rules.319 
 
The bazaar 
When a tile with a bazaar on it is drawn, the player should place it as 
usual (including placing a follower, scoring, and even not placing it if 
there is no place for it).320 
 
 
 
 
319  The yellow ground of a bazaar ends a road. This is slightly different from crossings or bushes, 
as the wagon cannot cross a bazaar to the other side, since it is a feature. (modified 10/2013) 
 
320  The portion in parentheses is specific to the RGG edition and serves to clarify that the bazaar 
action occurs at the end of the turn, after scoring, not immediately after tile placement. Based on the 
last part of the statement, the bazaar seems to occur even if the tile cannot be placed. 
 

Then a bazaar will take place, in which land tiles will be ‘auctioned’.321 
 
The active player uncovers as many land tiles as there are players. Then the next player 
selects one of the tiles and declares how many points he or she would bid to keep it (it is 
possible to offer 0 points!). In the usual order, the rest of the players may make one bid: 
either they raise the current bid, or they pass. 
 
When all players have either made a bid or passed, the player who selected the tile must 
make a decision, either: 
 
 to buy the tile from the highest bidder, paying them the number of points bid, or 
 to sell the tile to the highest bidder, receiving the points bid from them in return. 
 
As such, the score of one player will be reduced on the scoreboard, and the score of 
another increased. If the player who selected the tile is the only one who made a bid, then 
the points should be subtracted from his or her score, but not awarded to anyone else. 
Players may bid more than they have and move their markers behind 0 on the scoring 
board. In this case they can place the marker on its side to show it is negative.322 
 
It is then the turn of the next player who has not received a tile during this bazaar.323 
Anyone who has already received a tile may no longer take part in the bidding. The last 
tile may be taken without payment by the remaining player who has not received a tile. 
 
 
 
 
 
321  Question: What is the order of events if the bazaar tile extends a feature with a builder? 
Answer: If you draw a bazaar tile and can perform your builder-turn, first take the appropriate 
number of face-down tiles and then perform your builder-turn. After that, perform the bazaar and the 
auction. Then a new round with a special property starts – each player has an open and known tile 
instead of drawing an unknown tile, and you cannot place your abbey as your first tile. If you placed 
your auctioned tile and you can perform a builder-turn, you can choose to place your abbey or draw a 
new unknown tile. If any player draws a new bazaar tile [for his or her builder-turn], it will be ignored 
until the last player who has an auctioned tile finishes his turn (including his builder-turn, if possible). 
If the next player draws a new tile with the bazaar effect, a new bazaar will be triggered. 
 
In other words: Draw bazaar  draw the tiles (still face-down)  **start ignoring any further new 
bazaars**  perform builder-turn  turn tiles face-up and start the auction  1st Player with 
auctioned tile  1st player’s builder-turn  next player with auctioned tile  next player’s builder-
turn   last player with auctioned tile  last player’s builder-turn  **stop ignoring any new 
bazaars**  player who drew a new bazaar in his/her builder turn  back to start. (confirmed 5/2013) 
 
322  The HiG edition of Big Box 3 rewords this sentence to state “At the very beginning of the 
game, it is possible for a player to have fewer than 0 points through an auction.” 
 
323  The RGG edition of Big Box 3 adds, “it could be the same player if he did not buy the tile he 
chose.” 
 

After all the tiles have been auctioned, all players place their purchased tiles as in a normal 
turn.324 This begins with the player after the active player. 
 
 
 
Too few tiles: If a player places a bazaar and there are not enough face-down tiles for all 
players, no tile auction occurs. The players ignore the bazaar on the tile and the tile is 
played as normal.325 
 
No chain reaction: If, through the placement of a bazaar tile, another bazaar tile is 
purchased and placed, no further tiles should be uncovered and auctioned. Only when all 
the uncovered tiles have been allocated and placed can another bazaar take place.326 
 
Variation: As many tiles should be uncovered as there are players. Beginning with the 
next player, in turn each player selects one of the tiles and places it as in a normal turn. 
This continues until all the uncovered tiles have been allocated, and then the game 
continues as normal.327 
 
 
 
 
 
324  This would allow a player placing a purchased tile onto a city with a builder to draw another 
tile before others play their auction tiles, as a “double turn” is part of a normal turn. 
 
325  This rule is found only in the RGG edition of Big Box 3. 
 
326  Note that a purchased bazaar tile will not trigger an auction, but any drawn bazaar tile will 
trigger an auction. Nonetheless, as discussed in a previous footnote, the auction may not happen 
immediately if the drawing of the tile occurred during a builder-turn. 
 
327  The RGG edition of Big Box 3 adds, “Thus, each player places one tile for no cost - thus, no 
auction!” 
 
Example with three players: 
RED draws a tile with a bazaar. She places and deploys a follower to it. Then she 
uncovers three tiles. 
BLUE is next in the order of play, selects a tile and bids 2 points for it. GREEN 
passes, while RED bids 3 points. BLUE (the auctioneer) wants to keep the tile, so 
pays RED (the highest bidder) the 3 points; that is, BLUE reduces her score by 3 
and increases that of RED by 3. 
Now GREEN selects a tile and bids 2 points for it. RED bids 3 points, and BLUE 
cannot bid. GREEN gives him the tile and receives 3 points. RED’S score 
decreases by 3. 
There is now only one tile left, which GREEN receives for free. 
Beginning with BLUE, all players place their purchases tiles as in a normal turn.

Bridges 
 
During his or her turn,328 and in addition to placing a tile and deploying 
a follower, a player may build one bridge. The bridge continues a 
road; that is, it carries the road over the tiles and counts exactly the 
same as a road segment on a land tile. 
 
To build a bridge, the following conditions must be met: 
 
 The bridge may be built on the tile which was just placed, or on an adjacent 
tile which touches it on one side. 
 Both ends of the bridge must lie on a field (not on a city, road, river, or so on). 
 
A player may also place the tile so that a road ends at a farm when he or she then 
continues the road with a bridge. A follower may be deployed to the tile; if the bridge is 
built on the tile being placed, the follower may be deployed to the bridge.329 Farms or 
cities under a bridge are not divided. Also, several bridges may be built next to each 
other.330 331 
 
 
 
 
328  Of particular note here is that a specific part of the turn for bridge placement is not specified. 
Obviously one must be placed immediately after tile placement if the tile placement would otherwise 
be illegal, and a bridge must be placed before a follower if the follower is to be placed on the bridge. 
However, one could envision a situation where the bridge is not needed for tile placement (e.g. a 
straightforward attachment on 1 edge) but for strategic reasons the player later in the turn opts to 
place a bridge on that tile (or even the adjacent one) such that the bridge ends are on tile edges that 
do not touch other tiles. 
 
329  It is clear from this that the bridge is generally built before deploying a follower. 
 
330  One tile cannot have 2 bridges running perpendicular to each other. The rules state that the 
bridge must lie on a field, and if bridges are stacked, one end of the top bridge will not touch the 
field. 
 
331  A bridge that would potentially span a tower foundation does not prevent the growth of that 
tower, and that a tower that was already present does not prevent bridge placement. If the two 
structures would interfere with each other, the tower pieces can be moved so that they are no longer 
on the tower foundation symbol. Both structures can then be placed without conflict. (11/2013) 
 

 
 
 
 
Building a bridge on the tile 
being placed: 
RED expands her city. As the 
new tile has no road segments, 
she builds a bridge to carry the 
road over the new city segment. 
Building a bridge on an 
adjacent to the tile being 
placed: 
RED places a tile and occupies 
the road. With a bridge she 
carries the road over the city 
segment on the adjacent tile. 
Building a bridge here is not 
allowed, as one end of the bridge 
lies on a road. 
Next turn: 
BLUE completes 
 his road and 
 receives 3 points (like a normal road 
segment, the bridge scores 1 point) 
Bridges can also be built next to each 
other and over cloisters, even ones which 
are already occupied. 

Castles 
 
When a player creates a town – which consists of 
only two semi-circular city segments332 – the 
occupier may choose to complete and score it in 
the usual way (for 4 points), or to convert it into a 
castle.333 To convert it, the occupier places one of his or her castle 
tokens over the city and moves the follower occupying it into the 
castle.334 A town which has been converted to a castle is 
considered to be incomplete. 
 
No points are scored on building a castle. The player receives 
points only when the first structure (cloister, city, or road) in its 
vicinity is completed during a subsequent turn.335 More precisely, a 
segment of the structure being completed must be one or more of the tiles adjacent to the 
castle. The adjacent tiles are the two on which the castle lies, the two tiles to its left, and 
the two to its right: a total of six tiles. 
 
 
The tiles 1-6 are adjacent to the RED castle. The occupier could score points 
from the following structures: 
 the CLOISTER on 1 
 the ROAD on 1 
 the CITY at the top of 3 
 the CITY on the right side of 6 
(The small city on 3 and 6 was scored before the construction of the castle, 
and so generates no more points.) 
 
The castle is only considered to have been completed when a structure (cloister, city, 
road, or another castle) which lies on at least one of the six adjacent tiles is completed. 
The occupier of the structure and the occupier of the castle both receive the full score for 
the structure. Then the follower from the castle is returned to the player’s supply; the 
castle token remains where it is. 
 
 
 
332  This excludes small cities which do not consist of two semi-circular segments, such as might 
be constructed using the cfrf tile with the triangular city segment shown in the Tile Distribution list 
below. 
 
333  A city under siege (or under attack from Cathars) can be converted to a castle, and it is 
handled as a normal castle. The siege or Cathar attack is ignored after conversion to a castle. 
 
334  Note that this is after the Move Wood phase and does not itself constitute a Move Wood phase 
(and might not even involve the active player). (5/2013) 
 
335  The RGG version of the rules states that the castle scores only “when the first feature … in 
the vicinity of the castle is later completed” (emphasis added) – while a subsequent turn is not 
specifically mentioned, it seems apparent in both rule sets that a feature that is completed on the turn 
that the castle is built does not allow the castle to score. 
With her tile, RED creates 
a small city and converts it 
into a castle. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following rules are also valid: 
 
 A cloister is only considered to be adjacent when the cloister itself lies on one of 
the six tiles (such as tile 1 in the examples above); it is not sufficient for one of 
the eight tiles surrounding the cloister to be adjacent. 
 
 The follower in the castle always receives points for the next structure to be 
completed. It may not be left in play in order to receive points for a structure 
which might be completed later. 
 
 It does not matter whether the structure completed actually scores any points. 
The castle still receives points for a structure which is not occupied by a follower. 
 
 Should the placement of a tile simultaneously complete more than one structure 
adjacent to the castle, the occupier of the castle may decide which of them to 
receive points for. A castle receives points for only one completed structure. 
 
 As a town which is converted into a castle is not considered to have been 
completed, it is possible for two occupied castles to be located next to each 
other. In this case, a when one of the castles score points, it counts as a 
completed structure for the other, and both receive the same points. 
 
 At game end, all uncompleted castles score no points and their followers are 
removed from the board. A castle gets no points for farms. 
 
 When converting to a castle, it does not matter whether the small city was already 
occupied by a follower in the first half of the city, or by the active player 
deploying a follower to the second half during his or her turn. 
 
 Castles separate fields in the same way as a town does. 
 
Example of scoring castles: BLUE 
completes his city and scores 20 
points. As a segment of the city lies 
on a tile (6) adjacent to the castle, 
and it is the first structure to be 
completed since the castle was built,
RED also receives 20 points. Both 
followers are then returned to their 
owners. 

 A knight on a castle cannot be attacked by the dragon.336 337 
 
 A player can use the wagon effect to build a castle. If a mayor is on the castle, it 
does not earn points for the castle, because there is never a pennant there.338 
 
When scoring farmers at game end, a castle on a farm scores 4 points (instead of the 3 
usual for a city), or 5 points with a pig (Traders and Builders) or barn (Abbey and 
Mayor).339 340 341 342 
 
 
 
 
 
336  Followers in castles are safe from towers, the dragon, and the plague, as those things affect 
the tile directly, and castles are not present on a specific tile. 
 
337  An additional bullet point rule added to Big Box 3 stated “A player can place the fairy in a 
castle. If it is there during the castle scoring, it scores 3 points for the player.” However, according to 
official clarifications, this rule is incorrect. The fairy cannot be placed in a castle, as it should only be 
placed on features on a discrete tile. 
 
338  The last 3 bullet points were first included in the Big Box 3 edition of the rules. 
 
339  Presumably the pig-herd tile also grants an extra point to farms for each castle, although this 
would have to be clarified. 
 
340  The RGG Big Box 3 scoring guide at the end of the rules claims that farms only score points 
for completed castles, but this is presumably a misprint, as there is no indication in the rules that 
this is actually true (especially as followers from incomplete castles are removed, so there would be 
no way to tell which castles were incomplete and which were complete when scoring farms). 
 
341  Castles do not count as cities for the purposes of scoring for the King. Castles do count for 
scoring of the Famine sector of the Wheel of Fortune, as this effectively a scoring of farms. Followers 
from the City of Carcassonne cannot move to a castle. 
 
342  A city under siege (or under attack from Cathars) can be converted to a castle, and it is 
handled as a normal castle. The siege or Cathar attack is ignored after conversion to a castle. 
 

 
 
 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2010 
 
6 new land tiles 
 
 
The six crop circle tiles should be mixed with the rest of the tiles. 
 
 
A player who draws a tile with a crop circle places it according to the usual rules and 
carries out a normal turn. After that, he or she decides whether all players, starting with 
the player to his or her left: 
A) may343 take one of their own followers from their supply and deploy it next to 
another of their followers already on a landscape tile, or 
B) must remove one of their own followers from a landscape tile and return it to 
their supply. 
It is important to observe that 
 The active player must choose action A) or B). 
 The type of follower affected is decided by the tile drawn, as follows: 
 
‘Pitchfork’ crop circle 
This affects farmers (on a farm segment). 
 
 
‘Club’ crop circle 
This affects thieves (on a road segment). 
 
 
 
‘Shield’ crop circle 
This affects knights (on a city segment). 
 
 
343  Perhaps counter-intuitively, the HiG rules for option A) clearly state, both here and in the 
example scenario below, that players may decide whether to deploy a second follower next to one 
already in play. In other words, the active player decides what effect the crop circle has: A) 
deployment or B) removal. If removal, all players must remove one follower of the appropriate type. 
If deployment, the players may choose not to deploy a second follower. 
This would also clarify what a player should do if option A) is chosen but he or she has no followers in 
the supply. In this case, the player is “forced” to “choose” not to deploy a second follower. 
 

 When a player performs action A), he or she must deploy the follower to a feature 
which already contains a follower of the same type (farmer to a farmer, thief to a 
thief, knight to a knight).344 
 If a player is unable to perform the action, due to not having a follower of the 
required type in play, then he or she will be passed over and the player to the left 
should continue. 
 The active player performs the action last, and then next player should take their 
turn as usual. 
 
 
Example of option A) 
 
1. RED places a tile with a ‘shield’ crop circle and 
deploys a follower to it. RED chooses option A). 
Every player may deploy a knight (because of the 
‘Shield’ symbol) next to a knight already in play. 
2. GREEN deploys a second knight next to the one 
already in play. 
3. BLUE does not have a knight and so cannot 
deploy one. 
4. RED deploys a second knight next to the one just 
deployed to the tile which was placed. She may not deploy a follower to the other city segment on the same tile 
because there is no knight on it. She could also have deployed her follower beside the knight on the top left tile. 
 
 
 
Example of option B): 
 
1. GREEN places a tile with a ‘pitchfork’ crop 
circle and deploys a follower to it. The city is 
scored: GREEN received 6 points and removes 
his follower. Then he chooses option B). Every 
player must remove a farmer (because of the 
‘pitchfork’ symbol). 
2. BLUE removes his farmer. 
3. RED removes her farmer. 
4. GREEN does not have a farmer, and so 
cannot remove one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
344  Any follower in a city, including a Mayor or a Wagon, is considered to be a knight. 
 

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 6 345 
 
 
 
 
 
 
345  Note that the tiles released in this initial Crop Circles expansion are different from the Crop 
Circle tiles included in the later mini expansions. 
 

originally released in Spielbox in 2010 
 
This expansion reaches deep into the game. The 
devastating plague makes the very layout of the land 
important. After a seemingly harmless incubation period, 
one might soon come to the conclusion that it is 
impossible to score any points in the face of the plague. 
But don’t be deceived! It is possible to guide the plague in 
the direction of one’s opponents and—on the other side of 
eradicated infestation—to protect oneself and accumulate 
points without further hinderance.346 
 
GENERAL CONCEPT: 
 
Starting from six Outbreak tokens, the plague spreads 
throughout Carcassonne. As soon as an Outbreak tile 
comes into play, every player must spread the plague 
further in his or her turn. A follower on an affected tile is 
removed without scoring. However, one can attempt to take flight from the 
plague—on the same road, farm or even with a city. Over the subsequent course of play, 
the players may eradicate an Outbreak, so that the plague may no longer spread in certain 
regions. 
 
 
 6 land tiles with plague doctor symbols, from which the plague 
breaks out (“plague source tiles”) 
 18 flea tokens which show where the plague has spread to (red side = active, 
pink side = latent / inactive) 
 6 Outbreak tokens: front (numbered 1-6, with rats) = active outbreak, reverse 
(farm) = outbreak eradicated 
 
Definitions: 
 A plague source tile with an active Outbreak token, and all adjacent red flea tokens, forms the region of 
an ACTIVE PLAGUE REGION. An active Outbreak token without adjacent flea token also counts as 
an active Plague region. 
 Adjacent pink flea tiles represent a LATENT PLAGUE REGION. 
 A plague tile with a passive Outbreak token (field) is secured against the plague. It is never part of an 
 
 
 
 
346  The image on the right, a medieval plague doctor, is taken from 
http://thesocietypages.org/economicsociology/%202008/12/29/182/ (thanks to Whaleyland). 
 

 
Place the starting tile. Mix the tiles of the basic game,347 and set aside 17 tiles. These tiles 
should be played first. Then mix the new plague source tiles with the remaining tiles.348 
Place the tokens beside the playing area. 
 
 
The first Outbreak 
 
As soon as a player has drawn and placed (according to the usual rules) a 
plague source tile, an active Plague region is created. The Outbreak token 
with the number “1” should be placed face-up on the tile’s plague doctor 
symbol. The player may not deploy a follower. 
Note: An Outbreak token never divides a farm. 
 
The Plague spreads 
 
Once the first Outbreak token has been brought into play, the plague 
spreads in every subsequent turn (if possible), beginning with the player to 
the left of the one who placed the first source tile. During his or her turn, 
each player should take a flea token from the supply and place it—active 
side face up—on a tile which is adjacent (horizontal or vertical, not 
diagonal) to the Outbreak, and which does not yet have a flea on it.349 350 As play 
continues, one may alternatively place a flea on a tile adjacent to one with an active flea 
 
 
347  In a response to a question, a representative of HiG noted “The Plague was not meant to be 
played together with other expansions.” Official rulings were still provided, so obviously the game 
won’t come crashing down on you, but complications may arise. 
 
348  Obviously, this assumes that you are only playing with the basic game. No matter how many 
expansions you are using, however, it is safe to say that you should not play a plague tile among the 
first 18 tile placements of the game. Whether you count river tiles (for example) as part of the first 18 
tiles or as an additional set of “safe” starting tiles is up to the players. 
 
349  Given new interpretations regarding placement of the dragon and followers on features outside 
the City of Carcassonne and the Wheel of Fortune, it seems that the plague should also be allowed 
on the outside portion of these tiles. However, this is unofficial. (1/2013) 
 
350  Normal rules apply in the cities, roads, and fields outside the City of Carcassone, Wheel of 
Fortune, and School – placements of followers, the dragon, plague tokens, etc. occur as normal, 
though the special features themselves are protected. 
 

token. If a flea token is placed on a tile containing one or more followers, they 
are returned to their players without scoring. 351 352 353354 
 
The active player decides at what point during his or her turn the Plague will spread. 
 
Taking flight from the Plague 
 
Once the Plague has broken out, every player may allow one (not more) of his or her 
followers to take flight per turn. The follower may be moved to another segment of the 
same road, city, or farm—no matter the distance.355 356 
 
Note: If a thief takes flight, it may not cross junctions or crossings. If a farmer takes 
flight, it may pass under a bridge, but may not cross a road or leave its farm. Monks in 
cloisters cannot take flight. 
 
The follower may not take flight to or over a tile with a flea token (either active or latent), 
nor to a tile with an active Outbreak357. It may take flight to a tile on which there is 
already a follower. Naturally, a follower may not take flight over areas where there is no 
 
Another Plague 
 
When a player draws and places 
another Plague source tile, the Outbreak 
token with the next highest number is placed on it. The Plague will now spread from here 
as well. The player who drew the tile may not place a flea token in this turn, having 
 
 
351  Followers in castles are safe from towers, the dragon, and the plague, as those things affect 
the tile directly, and a castle is not placed on a single tile. 
 
352  The plague does not affect the dragon or other neutral figures. 
 
353  The plague does not affect the barn, because the barn is not placed on a single tile, and the 
plague only affects a single tile at a time. (11/2013) 
 
354  It is unknown if the plague affects other player figures that aren’t followers (pig, builder). 
 
355  The rules are not clear about whether any follower anywhere in play may take flight—or only 
those occupying features which have been affected by the plague. I’m inclined to think it’s the former, 
but an official ruling is necessary, and attempts at clarification and re-translation have been 
contradictory. 
 
356  As the features outside the City of Carcassonne and Wheel of Fortune can now have followers 
deployed to them, presumably fleeing followers could also move there. (1/2013) 
 
357 Emphasis added. 
 

instead the privilege of choosing where the Outbreak will occur. From now on, each active 
player has a choice of which active Plague region to expand. 
 
Note: A flea token may never be placed on a plague source tile. 
 
Eradicating an Outbreak 
 
When, at the start of a player’s turn, there are no more flea tokens left in 
the supply, the Outbreak token with the lowest visible number should be 
eliminated – turned onto the ‘field’ side. (However, as there must always be 
at least one active Outbreak, after the first plague source tile has been 
placed, an Outbreak remains active if it is the only active one currently in 
play.) 
 
The region affected is now an ‘inactive’ Plague region. All adjacent flea tokens 
should be turned onto their ‘latent' sides; from this point on, fleas tokens must 
be moved out of an latent epidemic region, rather than the supply. 
 
Eradicating further Outbreaks 
 
The next Outbreak (and always the token with the lowest number currently in play) is only 
eradicated when there are no more latent flea tokens which could be moved at the start of 
a player's turn. 
 
It is also possible to divide a swarm of fleas by choosing to move one of them. As soon as 
an active flea token is no longer connected to an active Outbreak, it is turned onto its 
passive side. Therefore, fleas which are not connected to an active Outbreak are always 
inactive. 
 
Merging Plague regions 
 
It is quite possible for two or more Plague regions to merge together. When several active 
Outbreaks come to belong to the same region, all except the token with the highest 
number should be turned over. If inactive fleas become connected to a region with an 
active Outbreak, they should be turned onto their active sides again. As such, fleas which 
have become inactive can become active again through mergers. It is also possible for 
parts of a epidemic region to become cut off, in which case the flea tokens must be turned 
onto their latent side. 
 
Eradicated Outbreaks can never become active again. A source tiles with an Outbreak 
token on its ‘farm' side remain spared from the plague until the end of the game. A flea 
token cannot be placed on a plague tile, so one is secure from the Plague there. 
 
 
 

An exception 
 
Should all 18 flea tokens be part of the same Plague region, one of them should be moved 
to a new tile on each player’s turn. The new tile must naturally be adjacent to the active 
 
If a new plague source is later drawn and placed in an unconnected position, the old 
Plague region will become inactive. The Outbreak token should be turned onto its field 
side, and all 18 flea tokens should be turned onto their latent side. 
 
Scoring 
 
If a part of a structure is afflicted by the plague , it has no impact on scoring as long as 
the followers themselves are unaffected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

La Porxada (The Columned Hall) 
originally released at Jugar X Jugar in 2010 
 
La Porxada is a historical edification in Granollers. It was built in the mid-16th Century by 
order of the town council. It is located in the historic quarter of the city, in front of the city 
hall. In its time it was an agricultural market and a place to trade products from the land. 
In the civil war it was destroyed by the Italian air force and was rebuilt afterwards. 
 
 
1 new land tile displaying La Porxada 
 
 
The tile with La Porxada can be used in two different ways. 
The player who places this tile may choose one of the 
following: 
 
1) After placing La Porxada, the player who placed this tile may358 exchange one of his 
own followers with a follower of another player.359 Both followers must be currently in 
play. The chosen player can negate the exchange, but if so, he or she must must eliminate 
one of his or her followers for the remainder of the game. If the player who places La 
Porxada does not have any followers in play, he or she cannot choose this option. 
 
2) At the end of the game, any player who had a Knight in the city containing La Porxada 
may score all unfinished cities containing his or her followers as if they were finished.360 
This scoring bonus will only occur if the city containing La Porxada is finished.361 
 
 
 
 
 
358  The use of the term “may” sets up an interesting situation – conceivably, the player could 
choose option 1 (as long as he has at least one follower in play), but then elect not to swap followers, 
effectively negating all effects of the tile. 
 
359  The use of the term “follower” here suggests that non-follower figures (such as the pig and 
builder) cannot be traded. However, it would seem that any type of follower could be swapped with 
any other (e.g. the large follower with the mayor), which has notable strategic implications. 
 
360  This would take all of the stress out of having a late-game cathedral city. 
 
361  Since the city with La Porxada must be completed for this effect to trigger at the end of the 
game, and thus players will no longer have followers actually in the city, it may be beneficial to 
distribute some sort of token to those players who had followers in the city when it was completed. 
 

 
La Porxada is a self-proclaimed mini-mini-expansion, containing only a single tile. Its place 
in the Carcassonne universe is debated and disputed – some consider this a completely 
unofficial expansion, as it was never sanctioned by Hans im Glück. Those who argue this 
side note that the tiles were simply stickers placed on other tiles. However, the expansion 
was sanctioned by Klaus-Jürgen Wrede himself (there is even an image of a signed tile on 
boardgamegeek.com), so this is more than just a fanspansion. Ultimately, La Porxada 
exists in semi-official limbo, and individual players must use their own judgement as to the 
nature of the expansion. 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 1 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2011 362 
 
 
 10 land tiles (each with the 10-year festival symbol) 
 
 
 
When a player draws a tile with a festival symbol on it, he or she should place the tile 
according to the usual rules. The player must then choose either: 
 
 deploy one of one’s own figures to the tile in the usual way; or 
 return one of one’s own figures363 364 from the entire playing area365 to his or her 
supply.366 367 
 
The player can also choose to do neither of the above. 
Captured followers (The Tower) cannot be returned to the player's supply in this way. 
 
 
 
 
 
362  This “expansion” is really a part of HiG and RGG’s jubilee edition of Carcassonne, which 
essentially consists of a deluxe version of the basic game and this mini-expansion. 
 
363  All of one’s own figures are meant here, including normal and big followers, wagon, mayor, 
builder, pig, and barn. 
 
364  A player cannot return a figure from another player. Also, a player cannot return a neutral 
figure (such as the fairy or the dragon). 
 
365  By specifying “entire playing area,” this allows removal of followers from the City of 
Carcassonne (even if the Count is in the same space) or the Wheel of Fortune crown spaces. 
 
366  The RGG 10-year anniversary edition rules actually use the term “followers” for both bullet 
 
367  If the Festival is used to remove a follower, the Phantom can still be placed on that turn. 
(11/2013) 
 

Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 10 
 
 
 

The Phantom (The Entourage) 
 
 
 6 new translucent followers in six colors 
 
 
Every player receives the phantom of his or her color (the purple phantom belongs to the 
grey player). 
 
 
2. Deploy a follower. 
 
After placing a tile, the player may deploy the phantom to it as a second follower (on a 
second feature).368 369 Thus, in one turn the player may deploy two followers370 371 372 373 
 
 
368  Just like a normal follower, the Phantom can only be deployed to an unoccupied feature. 
 
369  A Phantom can also be played to areas such as the Wheel of Fortune or a tower – the 
Phantom is not restricted to placement on the tile that was just placed. Note, however, the prohibition 
on double use of magic portals and flier symbols below. (11/2013) 
 
370  Question: Does the phantom have to be second to a true follower, or can it be placed in 
addition to a non-follower piece? Answer: The phantom may also be placed as a second piece in 
addition to the builder, pig, or any other “move the wood” piece such as movement of the fairy or 
placement of a tower piece. 
 
371  The phantom cannot be placed, then followed by a builder or pig on the same feature on the 
same turn. The builder [or pig] must be placed as the second figure in a feature [i.e. placed after a 
follower], but the phantom is always the last piece placed on a turn. If the phantom is the first piece 
placed on a turn, another figure cannot then be placed. Thus, if a phantom is placed [as the primary 
follower] on a feature, the builder could at the earliest be placed on the next turn. 
 
372  The placement of a princess tile (Princess & Dragon) with removal of a knight from the city 
cannot be used as a first “follower move” and be followed by placement of the Phantom (e.g. into 
the now-vacated city). As per the rules for the princess, “if a knight is removed from the city, the 
player may not deploy or move any other figure.” 
 
373  If the Festival is used to remove a follower, the Phantom can still be placed on that turn. 
(11/2013) 
 

to two different features of the tile he or she just placed.374 375 376 When the phantom 
follower is returned to the player's supply, it may be deployed again in the same way in a 
later turn. 
 
As with a normal follower, the phantom can also be deployed as the only follower on a 
turn, and the phantom follower always counts as a normal follower. 
 
 
 
 
 
374  Question: When a tile with a magic portal is played, can the first follower can go to the tile 
itself and the phantom go through the magic portal (or vice versa)? In other words, can figures be 
deployed to 2 separate features (one to a portal and one to a primary feature) and end up on 
different tiles? Answer: Yes. You have a second separate placement phase, independent from the 
first placement phase, immediately after the first placement phase. You can do whatever you can do 
with a follower. You can choose a different target/action, of course. For example: Action one: place a 
follower at an open tower to close it. Action two: place [the phantom] into an area which is safe now 
because the tower is closed. 
 
375  A Phantom can use a magic portal. However, both a regular follower AND the Phantom 
cannot go through the magic portal – you must choose one or the other. This is because the magic 
portal is treated as a feature and the Phantom is effectively a normal follower. If the first follower is 
placed on the magic portal, it is claiming that portal (then is moved to a feature on another tile). The 
Phantom cannot be placed on that portal because it is a claimed feature. (1/2013) 
 
376  A phantom can be a flier. However, if you first use a normal follower as a flier then the 
second figure (the Phantom) cannot use the flying machine. The flying machine is a feature, so 
claiming the flying machine feature with the first figure prevents the Phantom from also claiming it. 
Thus, in this situation the phantom can only be placed on a road or on the field. (5/2013) 
 

 
 
 1 translucent teacher meeple in a random color (belonging to no player) 
 2 new land tiles representing the school 
 
 
The two school tiles are placed side-by-side next to the normal starting tile so that the 2 
halves of the school fit together. The school tiles may be placed either to the left or the 
right of the normal starting tile. The teacher meeple is placed on the school. 
 
 
The rules of Carcassonne remain the same. A player who completes one or more of the 
roads leading to the school scores the road(s) as normal and then obtains the teacher 
meeple after the scoring.377 The player takes the teacher out of the school and places it in 
front of himself. When the next feature is completed and scored, the player with the 
teacher scores the same number of points. If the player with the teacher is the player who 
scores for the next feature, he scores the points twice. After scoring points with the 
teacher, the teacher meeple must be returned to the school.378 
 
Example 1: RED has the teacher. BLUE completes a “school road” worth 5 points. BLUE 
and RED both score 5 points. RED returns the teacher to the school, and BLUE then takes 
the teacher. 
 
Example 2: YELLOW has the teacher. GREEN completes a city, scoring 12 points for 
GREEN. YELLOW scores 12 points as well, then returns the teacher to the school. 
 
Note: When all roads leading to the school are completed, the players have managed to 
successfully link the school to the outside world. Now the teacher has plenty of students 
and will not leave the school again. 
 
 
 
 
 
377  Note that the teacher is obtained after scoring the road. Thus, if another player has the 
teacher when the road is scored, the bonus points can be awarded and the teacher returned to the 
school before the player completing the road claims the teacher. 
 
378  If a player has the teacher at the end of the game, it seems that the player would receive no 
points, as there is not a specific order for scoring of the incomplete features and farms at that point. 
 

Fine Print: This mini expansion is designed for the basic Carcassonne game and for the 
first expansion [Inns & Cathedrals]. When using The School with other expansions, issues 
can arise.379 380 381382 383 
 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 2 (as 1 starting block) 
 
 (reverse) 
 
 
 
 
 
379  Interestingly, HiG is acknowledging that not all expansions work well together. I suspect that 
the fine print specifically relates to other expansions that have their own starting tiles, such as The 
River, The River II, and The Count of Carcassonne. If using one of those expansions, you can e-mail 
your question to the address included in the mini-expansion rules, or simply create your own house 
rule. 
 
380  Followers can be deployed on features on school tiles outside the school itself, for example 
through use of a magic portal or as a flier. (1/2013) 
 
381  The dragon is allowed on the school tiles. However, the dragon cannot go inside the school 
building and cannot eat the neutral teacher figure. (11/2013) 
 
382  Given new interpretations regarding placement of the dragon and followers on features on 
special starting tiles, it seems that the plague should also be allowed on the school tiles. However, 
this is unofficial. (1/2013) 
 
383  Normal rules apply in the roads and fields outside the School – placement of followers, the 
dragon, plague tokens, etc. occur as normal, though the School itself is protected. 
 

Carcassonne Winter Edition (Digital) 
 
 
 
 72 land tile images 
 
 
This specific edition of the basic game of Carcassonne is distributed only as a digital 
download. (A Winter Edition with different updated artwork is available as a boxed game.) 
Six PDF pages containing the 72 standard tile images are included. The functional 
geography and rules of the Winter Edition are no different from the basic game, but all of 
the features are covered with snow. 
 
Note: Because this Winter Edition is only available digitally, the tiles will not be 
reproduced in this document. 
 
 
Image © Hans im Glück. 
 
 

The Flier (Flying Machines) (Mini #1) 
 
As resourceful hobbyists, the players want to achieve the dream of flying, one of the 
oldest dreams of mankind, and try out their newly developed wings. Flight length and 
landing are somewhat unpredictable, however. 
 
 
 1 special die marked 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3 
 8 new land tiles with aircraft symbol 
 
 
The landscape tiles with the flying machine (aircraft) symbol are mixed with the other 
landscape tiles. The die is kept available for use. 
 
 
Play is according to the normal rules of Carcassonne. When a player draws a tile with an 
aircraft symbol, he or she plays it according to normal rules. He or she may place a 
follower on the road or field according to the usual rules. 
 
Alternatively, the player may place a follower as a flier on a flying machine symbol to get 
the follower in the game.384 The flying machine symbol has an arrow showing the direction 
(horizontally, vertically, or diagonally) in which the follower will fly. Now, the player rolls 
the die. The die result is the distance that the follower will fly (1 to 3 tiles in a straight 
line). 
 
If possible, the follower must be placed on the resulting landscape tile representing the 
end of the flight. The active player can choose which feature to place the follower on. 
However, the following rules must be followed: 
 
 
 
384  A phantom can be a flier. However, if you first use a normal follower as a flier then the 
second figure (the Phantom) cannot use the flying machine. The flying machine is a feature, so 
claiming the flying machine feature with the first figure prevents the Phantom from also claiming it. 
Thus, in this situation the phantom can only be placed on a road or on the field. (5/2013) 
 

 The follower must only be deployed to an unfinished385 structure (road, city, or 
cloister).386 387 388 
 The follower may be placed on a feature that is unoccupied389 or already occupied 
(either by one’s own follower or an opposing follower). For example, two 
followers can stand on a cloister or the same city segment. 
 The follower may not be placed on a field segment, even if there is not a 
farmer on the field already. 
 The follower may not be placed in a location where no landscape tile is located. 
 
If the follower cannot be placed (because only completed structures and field segments 
are present, or because there is not a landscape tile at the location of the flight’s end), the 
follower is taken back by the player and placed in his stock. The player may not play any 
more followers on this turn. 
 
 
 
 
385  A player cannot place a flier on a structure that was finished by the tile that was just placed, 
as a feature is considered completed at the moment that a tile is placed, and the flier can only land on 
an unfinished feature. (2012) 
 
386  The flier can land on features outside the City of Carcassonne (not in the City itself) and 
outside the Wheel of Fortune (not on the Wheel itself). The flier can also be deployed to the roads on 
the school tiles. (1/2013) 
 
387  A flier cannot land on a magic portal or any feature other than a road, city, or cloister. (2/2013) 
 
388  The mayor can be a flier. However, the mayor can only land on an unfinished city. If an 
unfinished city is not available on the tile where the mayor lands, the mayor returns to the player’s 
supply. (2/2013) 
 
389  The word “unoccupied” is an addition to the RGG version of the rules. (12/2012) 
 

 
 
 
 
RED places the tile with the aircraft symbol and thus sets the 
direction of flight. RED rolls a 3. The follower may not be 
placed, because no tile is located on the landing site. With a 
2 RED could have placed the follower either in the cloister 
(although there is already a BLUE follower there) or the city 
(although there is already a YELLOW follower in the city), 
but not on the road, because it is already finished. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RED places the tile with the aircraft symbol. RED rolls a 2. He must place 
his follower in the city (along with the BLUE follower), because he may 
not place his follower on the field segment and the road is already 
finished. 
 
 
 
 
 
tiles.390 
 
 
 
 
 
 
390  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Messages (Dispatches) (Mini #2) 
 
 
 6 Women followers in 6 colors 
 8 Dispatch tiles 
 
 
 
Back side 
 
 
 
 
One player shuffles the Message tiles and places them upside down (as a stack) beside the 
scoreboard. Each player places the woman follower in his or her color in addition to his 
normal follower on the zero of the scoreboard. There are thus now two counting figures 
on the scoreboard for each player. 
 
 
Whenever a player scores points, he or she can choose which one of the two scoring 
figures to move forward on the scoreboard. The active player (and only that player) gets a 
Message tile if one of his two counting figures lands on a dark number space (0, 5, 10, 
15,...). The active player takes the top tile from the stack of Message tiles and turns it 
over. He or she has two options, either: 
 
 Perform the action of the Message OR 
 Score 2 points immediately (shown in the seal on the lower right corner of the tile) 
 
After the player has carried out his or her choice, he or she places the Message tile face 
down at the bottom of the Message stack. 
 
The Messages in detail: 
 
(1.) Score smallest road: The player selects a road on which he or she has at 
least one follower (the player does not need to have a majority of followers, 
just needs to be represented). If there is more than one road to choose 
from, the player must select the one that would be worth the fewest points 
when scored at the end of the game.391 The player receives the number of 
points the road would be worth if it were the end of the game.392 The player’s follower 
remains on the road. 
 
 
 
391  The 2013 rules have a slightly clearer wording than the 2012 version. (11/2013) 
 
392  Note that this could be 0 points if a road with one of the player’s followers has an inn on it. 
 

(2.) Score smallest city: Same as Message 1 
but applies to cities.393 
 
 
 
(3.) Score smallest cloister: Same as Message 1 
but applies to cloisters. 
 
 
(4.) 2 points for each pennant: The player receives 2 points for each 
pennant in each city where he has at least 1 follower. (The player does 
not need the majority of followers in a city.) 
 
 
(5.) 2 points for each knight: The player receives 2 points for each of his 
or her knights (followers in a city). The knights remain in the game. 
 
 
(6.) 2 points for each farmer:394 The player gets 2 points for each of his 
or her farmers (followers on a field). The farmers remain in the game. 
 
 
(7.) One tile: The active player draws another land tile and plays it. Also, 
he may put an additional follower into play according to normal rules.395 
 
 
(8.) Score a follower and remove it from the board: The player chooses 
one of his or her followers in play. If the player has the majority in the 
feature where the selected follower stands, he or she scores that feature 
(only for himself or herself) as if it were the end of the game. The player 
then puts the chosen follower back in his or her supply.396 397 
 
 
393  Note that this could be 0 points if the smallest city with one of the player’s followers contains a 
cathedral. 
 
394  The initial rules on the HiG website had a tile scoring 3 points per farmer instead, but this was 
evidently a pre-production plan that was changed before publication. Additionally, the RGG rules also 
describe the tile as worth 3 points, but the actual tile included is for 2 points. 
 
395  If a tile is added to to a feature with a builder and triggers the drawing of Message #7, The 
Message extra tile comes before the builder extra turn. If the extra tile from the Message is put on the 
builder’s feature, this will create another builder extra turn. Thus, the events would be: initial turn  
Message #7 turn  Message #7 builder turn  original tile’s builder turn. (11/2013) 
 
396  Note that this could be 0 points if the chosen feature is a road with an inn or a city with a 
cathedral. Of course, choosing to do that rather than take the 2 points in the seal would be an odd 
tactical decision…. 

 
More rules: If more than one feature is scored on a single turn, the entire point value for 
each individual feature must be scored by moving a single counting follower.398 The active 
player can receive only one Message from a round of scoring (even if, for example, both 
counting followers are on dark number fields through the scoring of several finished 
features). However, if the active player gets points from a Message, it is possible that he 
or she could move a counting follower and receive another Message, playing it in the same 
turn. Chains of scoring in this way can continue indefinitely.399 400 
 
Important: Only the active player can receive Messages, even if other players’ counting 
figures land on dark fields on the scoring track. 
 
The point values of both counting figures are added together at the end of the game to 
produce the player’s final score.401 Each player places a counting figure on that total and 
puts the other back in the box. In the final scoring, no further Messages are received, 
even if a counting figure lands on a dark field. 
 
tiles.402 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
397  Any followers from other players remain on the feature, as it is still incomplete. 
 
398  If, for example, a city and a road are completed and scored by the active player, a different 
counting follower could be moved for each feature. However, all points scored by that city must be 
moved by one counting follower, and all points scored by that road must be moved by one counting 
 
399  If there is a double turn because of a builder, the placement of the second tile would create 
another round of scoring, and thus another opportunity to get a Message. (1/2013) 
 
400  Scoring 1 point for possession of the fairy is a separate scoring event, so it can trigger an 
opportunity to receive a Message by itself. (1/2013) 
 
401  In other words, both counting followers are considered equally, with no differences between 
the two. 
 
402  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

 
 

The Ferries (Mini #3) 
 
Some roads lead to small lakes around Carcassonne. There ferries are operated, 
connecting some roads at times and other roads at other times. This results in new 
challenges for robbers. 
 
 
 8 wooden ferries 
 8 new land tiles with lakes 
 
 
The landscape tiles with lakes are mixed with the other landscape tiles. The wooden 
ferries are kept available for use. 
 
 
Placing Lake Tiles 
Play is according to the normal rules of Carcassonne. When a player draws a tile with a 
lake, he or she plays it according to normal rules. Then he or she may place a follower. If 
he chooses to place a follower on a road, he or she must place the follower on one of the 
three or four road segments. Then, the active player must take a ferry from the stock and 
link two of the road segments on the tile. The ferry connects the ends of the road to form 
a continuous road. A road segment without a ferry on a lake is closed at this end. If the 
tile with the lake completes a feature after placing the ferry, the feature is scored as usual. 
 
 
 
 
Example 1: RED places the tile with a lake. He places a follower (1) 
and sets a ferry (2). The road that BLUE occupies is completed. BLUE 
receives 4 points (3). 
 
 
 
 
Example 2: RED places the tile. He places a follower (1) and then sets the 
ferry(2). RED and BLUE are now present on the same road. 
 
 
 
 

Extending a Road with Ferries and Changing Ferries 
If a player places his landscape tile and extends a road that includes a ferry,403 the player 
may move the ferry, but he or she is not required to do so. The ferry must always connect 
2 road ends. The player may move the ferry such that it no longer connects to the road 
that has just been extended. If there are two ferries on the road that was just extended, 
the player may only move the first ferry in the road – the ferry that is closest to the tile 
that was just placed.404 
 
Special case: If roads from the placed landscape tile extend in several directions, the first 
ferry in each of these directions may be moved. Thus up to 4 ferries could be moved. 
 
More rules: A ferry may be moved only once per turn. If a player places a tile with a lake 
on it, he or she first places the ferry on the new lake. Then, the player may move any 
further ferries that are allowed by the above rules. 
 
The sequence of actions relating to lakes and ferries: 
1. Place (lake) tile 
2. Place follower 
3. Place ferry (if new lake tile placed)405 
4. Move ferries on other lakes (if placed tile extends a ferry road)406 
5. Score features (if needed) 
 
 
 
Example 3: GREEN places the tile. He is allowed to change 
the first ferry on the road (see dashed arrow) and turns it 
from position (1) to position (2). GREEN and YELLOW are no 
longer on the same road. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
403  The road must include a wooden ferry to allow movement of that ferry in this situation. Thus, 
if adding onto a road that ends at a lake without the wooden ferry connection, the ferry cannot be 
moved. (2/2013) 
 
404  In other words, you may move the first ferry that you get to if following a road from the newly 
placed tile. You may not move any ferries that are beyond the first ferry as seen from the tile. (1/2013) 
 
405  The RGG version of the rules incorrectly adds “if he placed a follower on the road” here, even 
though there is no such stipulation in the body of the rules. 
 
406  The RGG version of the rules incorrectly adds the requirement “if he placed a follower on the 
road” here, even though there is no such stipulation in the body of the rules. 
 

 
Additional examples explaining movement of multiple ferries after placing a tile. Note that ferries are referred to 
as “boats” in the caption text. Figures posted on BGG by Christof Tisch. 
 
 
 
 

Rules for other expansions:407 
 
Inns & Cathedrals expansion 
A ferry lake has nothing to do with an inn lake. Thus, a road that is only beside a ferry 
lake only scores only 1 point per tile. 
 
Traders & Builders expansion 
If a road on which a builder has been placed is extended only through moving a ferry, the 
player may not perform a double turn.408 
 
 
 
 
tiles.409 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
407  These additional rules clarifications are from the Big Box 4 edition of the rules. 
 
408  If movement of a ferry causes a builder to be on a separate road from the player’s follower, 
the builder is returned to its owner. It is irrelevant if the follower is still on a road. (5/2013) 
 
409  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

The Goldmines (Mini #4) 
 
GOLD! The excitement is great and many are coming to claim the precious metal for 
themselves. All accounts will be settled at the end. 
 
 
 16 wooden gold pieces 
 8 new land tiles with gold symbol 
 
 
The landscape cards with the gold symbol are mixed with the other landscape tiles. The 
gold pieces are kept available for use. 
 
 
Play is according to the normal rules of Carcassonne. When a player draws a tile with a 
gold symbol, he or she plays it according to normal rules. Then the player must put a 
piece of gold on both the placed tile and one adjacent tile (diagonal is allowed). Thus, 2 
gold pieces are placed for each gold tile played. A player is allowed to put a piece of gold 
on a tile that already has one or more gold pieces from a previously placed landscape tile. 
A piece of gold is never associated with a particular feature, but always applies to all 
features on a tile. After gold placement, the player may still place a follower according to 
the normal rules. 
 
When a feature is finished and there are one or more pieces of gold on the tiles of that 
structure, these gold pieces are awarded. The player with the majority of the completed 
structure receives all gold pieces from the corresponding tiles. A road and a city include all 
tiles on which road segments or city segments are located. A cloister includes the cloister 
tile itself and all 8 adjacent tiles.410 
 
BLUE places a tile with a gold icon. He places a gold piece on that tile and one 
on a neighboring tile. 
 
 
 
410  When a castle is completed, the owner can lay claim to gold pieces in the 6-tile vicinity of the 
castle: the 2 tiles upon which the castle is built, the 2 tiles to its left, and the 2 tiles to its right. The 
owner of the castle does not necessarily have the rights to gold associated with the feature that 
caused completion of the castle (unless that gold is also within the castle’s vicinity or the castle owner 
also has a majority in the primary feature). (6/2013) 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
RED completes his city and takes the three gold pieces from the city tiles. 
 
 
When placing a tile and distributing gold pieces, proceed in the following order: 
1. Place (gold) tile 
2. Place gold pieces 
3. Place follower 
4. Score 
5. Award gold pieces 
 
When more than one player has the majority in a finished structure when gold is to be 
claimed, or when several structures with a claim to gold are completed at the same time, 
the gold pieces are distributed among those claiming players. Distribution proceeds 
clockwise, starting with the active player, until all of the corresponding gold pieces have 
been awarded.411 412 
 
 
RED placed the tile and completed the road. RED and BLUE have 
rights to the gold on the road tiles. As active player RED takes first 
gold, then BLUE, and finally RED last. 
 
 
 
Each player places his gold pieces before him for the remainder of the game. When the 
game is over, all gold pieces which are still on landscape tiles are removed from the game. 
Farmers receive no gold pieces. 
 
 
 
 
 
411  The active player (if entitled to gold) chooses the first gold piece and can choose any one of 
the pieces to which he/she may be entitled. The next player (in clockwise order) that is entitled to a 
gold piece can then choose an appropriate piece. Note that, because a player can choose which piece 
to take first (if there is more than one to choose from), a different player who may have initially been 
entitled to a gold piece may miss out if that piece has been claimed before it is that player’s turn to 
choose. (6/2013) 
 
412  The RGG version of the rules states “all players who score completed features with gold bars 
take one gold bar for each feature they score and that has gold bars.” This seems different from the 
HiG rules, where the rule is to only take one gold piece at a time. 
 

The gold pieces will be scored during the final scoring. The more gold pieces a player has 
collected, the more each individual piece of gold is worth, as per the following table: 
 
Pieces of gold Points per piece of gold 
1-3 
 
 
 
4-6 
 
 
 
7-9 
 
 
 
10+ 
 
 
 
 
Example:413 
RED earned 102 points and 7 pieces of gold in the game. 
The gold is worth 7 x 3 = 21 points. 
The final score for RED is 123 points. 
 
tiles.414 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
413  This additional rules clarification is from the Big Box 4 edition of the rules. 
 
414  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

Mage and Witch (Mini #5) 
 
Magic casters visit the countryside of Carcassonne. While the Mage brings the streets and 
cities into bloom, the people are rather suspicious of the skills of the Witch. 
 
 
 1 wooden Mage figure colored purple 
 1 wooden Witch figure colored orange 
 8 new land tiles with mage symbol 
 
 
The landscape tiles with the mage symbol are mixed with the other landscape tiles. The 
Mage and Witch characters are kept available for use. 
 
 
Play is according to the normal rules of Carcassonne. When a player draws a 
tile with the mage symbol, he or she plays it according to the normal rules. 
Before placing a follower, the player must place or move the Mage or the 
Witch character. The player places one of the two characters on any segment 
of an unfinished city or on any section of an unfinished road (which does 
not have to be on the tile that was just placed). The Mage and the Witch may 
not be placed on the same road or the same city. If the Mage or the Witch is already on a 
land tile, the player must move one to a different tile. 415 After that, the active player can 
place a follower as normal. 
 
 
 
 
 
415  Thus: 1) If neither figure is in play, the active player brings one into play. 2) If both figures 
are in play, the player moves one of the figures to a different feature. 3) If only one figure is in play, 
the player chooses one or the other to move – the player may move either the figure that is already in 
play or the figure that began the turn off of the playing field. In all of these situations, the player may 
choose to move either the Mage or the Witch. 
 

One of the magical figures must be placed or moved when a mage tile is placed. If it is 
not possible to place or move the mage or witch figure (because there are no unfinished 
cities or roads), the player must remove either the mage or witch from the board, if at 
least one is on a tile.416 Otherwise both remain waiting by the scoring track for the next 
mage tile to be drawn and placed.417 
 
Special case: If the placement of a tile joins the feature (city or road) with the Witch and 
the feature with the Mage, the active player must move one of the two figures. If 
placement of this tile completes a feature, the figure is moved before scoring.418 
 
If a road or city with a Mage or Witch is completed, the scoring is affected as follows: 
 The mage gives an extra point for each tile in the feature. 
 The witch halves the points (rounded up) for the finished structure. 
 When evaluating a road with an inn or a city with a cathedral that also has the 
Witch, the feature’s points are calculated using the inn or cathedral and then cut 
in half.419 
 
When a feature with the Mage or Witch is scored, the figure is removed from the board 
and can be brought back into play when a tile with a mage symbol is played. 
 
In the final scoring, the mage and witch affect scoring of roads and cities as they did 
during the game. 
 
An unfinished road with an inn and an unfinished city with a cathedral, which normally 
score 0 points, instead score 1 point per tile at the end of the game when the Mage is on 
the feature (pennants in the city score 0 points).420 
 
 
 
 
 
The city is completed. The normal value is 20 
Points ([8 tiles + 2 pennants] x 2 points each). 
The Mage awards 8 extra points (the city 
consists of 8 tiles). RED and BLUE each score 28 
 
 
416  The last part of this sentence is from the RGG edition of the rules. 
 
417  This sentence is from the RGG edition of the rules. 
 
418  This sentence is not included in the RGG edition of the rules. 
 
419  This additional rules clarification is from the Big Box 4 edition of the rules. 
 
420  This additional rules clarification is from the Big Box 4 edition of the rules. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Two roads are completed. The road with BLUE consists of 5 tiles. 
BLUE gets only 3 points because of the Witch [5/2 rounded up]. 
The road with RED consists of 3 cards. RED gets 6 points due to 
the Mage [3+3]. 
 
 
 
tiles.421. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
421  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

The Robbers (Mini #6) 
 
Bands of robbers are on the roads and claiming tolls. If followers score points, these 
"noble fellows" hold out their hands. 
 
 
 6 wooden Robber figures in 6 colors 
 8 new land tiles with robber symbol 
 
 
The landscape cards with the robber symbol are mixed with the other landscape tiles. Each 
player takes the robber of his or her color. 
 
 
Play is according to the normal rules of Carcassonne. 
 
Place Robber: When a player draws a tile with a robber symbol, he or she 
places it according to normal rules. Then the player may immediately422 place 
his or her robber figure on the scoreboard. The robber is placed on the same 
space as at least one counting follower of another player.423 The next player 
whose robber is still in his or her own stock may also place his or her robber in the same 
way.424 If the active player had already played his robber, he may move his robber figure. 
 
 
Example: BLUE, RED, YELLOW, and GREEN play in that order. BLUE plays a robber tile. He 
places his robber on the scoring space of RED’S counting follower. As the robbers of RED and 
YELLOW are already on the scoreboard, GREEN may now also place his robber. 
 
 
 
 
422  The word “immediately” was added to the 2013 version of the rules. (12/2013) 
 
423  If playing with the Messages (Dispatches) expansion, the Robber can be placed beside either 
a normal counting follower or the Messenger (woman follower). Thus, the Robber can get points from 
either a normal counting follower or a woman follower, but only from the one on the same space as 
the Robber. (5/2013) 
 
424  The ZMG version of the rules (BigBox 4) changes this to state “Then, in turn order, each 
other player may place their robber on the scoreboard.” (Emphasis added.) (5/2013) 
 

“Robber” Points: When a counting figure of another player moves forward, if a robber 
stood on the space where that follower started, the owner of the robber gets half of the 
points (rounded up).425 The player moving his counting figure gets all of his points. The 
owner of the robber moves his counting figure the appropriate number of spaces on the 
scoreboard. The robber is then placed back into the player's supply.426 
 
Other rules 
• “Rogue points”: If the robber is next to a counting follower that scores points gained by 
robbing another player, the robber’s player scores no points. Instead, the robber moves 
forward with (next to) that follower so that the robber can rob the follower later. (“Honor 
among thieves.”) 
• A robber must always take the first allowable points awarded (i.e. other than “rogue 
points”). He may not wait for a possible larger score later.427 
• If a robber is on the same space as several counting followers, and more than one of 
these followers scores points on the same turn, the owner of the robber can choose which 
counting follower’s points to gets half of.428 
• If more than one robber are in a space with a follower that scores, all robbers get half of 
the follower’s points. 
• One may not rob his or her own follower. 
• Final Scoring: All robbers remaining on the scoreboard receive 3 points. Then the 
robbers return to the players’ supplies.429 
 
 
 
 
425  The Robber can receive points from Wheel of Fortune or fairy scoring. (5/2013) 
 
426  When the last tile is placed, scoring for finished features takes place as usual, as the robber 
can still steal points. Then all robbers still remaining on the scoring board receive 3 points per the 
final bullet point in the rules. After that the actual final scoring begins. (updated 12/2013) 
 
427  Each scoring event is separate from all others – each feature is scored individually. The 
Robber must take points only from the first allowable event – single feature points, fairy point, 
catapult points, Wheel of Fortune points, etc. (5/2013) 
 
428  If a single follower receives points from more than one feature with placement of a single tile, 
the active player chooses the order that points are awarded. If there is a robber beside that follower, 
the owner of the robber would thus receive half the points of only the first feature that is scored. Of 
course, if multiple followers on the same space receive points, the Robber’s owner can still choose 
which follower to steal points from. (5/2013) 
 
429  This rule regarding scoring for robbers at the end of the game was added to the 2013 version 
of the HiG rules – it was not present in the 2012 or Big Box 4 versions, and it is thus not included in 
RGG or ZMG rules. This actually represents a reversal of a previous clarification, as robbers 
remaining on the scoreboard at the end of the game originally scored nothing. (12/2013) 
 

 
 
RED gets 5 points. The BLUE robber "robs" 3 points; 
therefore, the BLUE follower moves 3 spaces. The BLUE 
robber is removed from the scoreboard. Since the YELLOW 
robber would now only score "rogue points", he moves 
forward with BLUE. The YELLOW robber later "robs" RED 
or BLUE, depending on who scores next. 
 
 
 
BLUE receives 4 points. RED and GREEN scored 2 points 
for their robbers. The robbers are removed from the 
scoreboard. 
 
 
 
tiles.430 
 
Examples Using the Robber and the Messages 
 
Example #1 
 
 
BLUE has a Robber on the same space as RED’s Woman Follower. RED’s Normal Follower 
is on a different space. With placement of one tile, RED scores points for both a road (3 
points) and a city (6 points). 
 
Each feature is scored separately. RED decides which of his/her scoring figures moves on 
the scoring board. BLUE only receives “Robber points” for the first movement of the 
scoring figure that stands on the same space as the Robber – here RED’s Woman 
Follower. 
 
 
1) First, the Woman Follower scores 3 points for the road. After that, the Normal Follower 
scores 6 points for the city. Then the Robber robs half of the points from the Woman 
Follower (2 Points). 
 
 
 
430  Note that the Crop Circle tiles included in the mini expansions are different from the tiles 
 

2) First, the Normal Follower scores 3 points for the road. After that, the Woman Follower 
scores 6 points for the city. Then the Robber robs half of the points from the Woman 
Follower (3 Points). 
 
3) First, the Woman Follower scores 3 points for the road. After that, the Woman Follower 
scores 6 points for the city. Then the Robber robs half of the points for the road (the first 
score) from the Woman Follower (2 Points).431 
 
4) First, the Normal Follower scores 3 points for the road. After that, the Normal Follower 
scores 6 points for the city. Here, the Robber robs nothing from RED because the Normal 
Follower was not on the same space as the Robber. 
 
Example #2 
 
 
BLUE has a Robber on the same space as GREEN’s Normal Follower and RED’s Woman 
Follower. The other scoring figures for GREEN and RED are standing on different spaces. 
With placement of one tile, GREEN scores points for a road (3 points) and RED scores 
points for a city (6 points) 
 
The Robber is on a space occupied by more than one scoring figure, and both of the 
scoring figures (more than one) are scoring points. Thus, the Robber chooses which player 
he will “rob” half of the points from. GREEN and RED can choose which of their scoring 
figures move when points are scored. The Robber can only receive points from a scoring 
figure that stands on the same space. 
 
 
1) GREEN and RED both decide to score with their scoring figures that are standing on the 
same space as the Robber. The Robber decides to rob the half of the points from the 
Woman Follower (3 Points). 
 
2) GREEN decides to score with the Normal Follower and RED also decides to score with 
the Normal Follower. The Robber can only rob the half of the points from GREEN’s Normal 
Follower (2 Points) since RED’s Normal Follower is not on the same space as the Robber. 
 
3) GREEN and RED both decide to score with their scoring figures that are standing on 
different spaces from the Robber. The Robber can't rob any points from the Woman 
Follower or the Normal Follower, as the Robber isn’t on the same space as either one of 
them. 
 
 
 
431  RED could have chosen to score the city first, in which case BLUE’s robber would score 3 
points. However, it is unlikely that doing that would be in RED’s best interests. 
 

Example #3 
 
 
BLUE has a Robber on the same space as GREEN’s Normal Follower, GREEN’s Woman 
Follower, and RED’s Normal Follower. RED’s Woman Follower stands on a different space. 
With placement of one tile, GREEN scores points for a road (3 points) and for a city (6 
points), and RED scores points for a road (2 points) and for a city (8 points). 
 
Each feature scores separately. GREEN and RED can choose which of their scoring figures 
will score the points. The Robber can only receive points from a scoring figure that stands 
on the same space as the Robber. In this case, the Robber can definitely receive points 
from GREEN, because both scoring figures from GREEN are on the same space. The 
Robber’s ability to rob points from RED will depend on which figure(s) RED chooses to 
move. Since the Robber is on a space occupied by more than one scoring figure, and more 
than one figure is scoring points, the Robber chooses which player he is “robbing” half the 
points from. The Robber gets all of the information that he/she needs about movement 
from the other players (RED and GREEN) before making the best decision about which 
points to rob. 
 
 
1) GREEN and RED each score with one of the scoring figures that was standing on the 
same space as the Robber. They both decide to score their roads first. GREEN first scored 
the road worth 3 points with the Woman Follower. RED then scored the road worth 2 
points with the Normal Follower. The Robber decided to rob half of the points from the 
Woman Follower (2 points), because robbing the Normal Follower would have only been 
worth 1 point. 
 
Since both GREEN and RED chose to score their cities second with the same followers, the 
Robber could not get half of the points from either city. The Robber could only choose to 
rob the first GREEN points or the first RED points available. (If, however, GREEN had 
scored the city with the Normal Follower, the Robber could have robbed half of those 
points, since that would have been yet another follower to choose to rob from.) 
 
2) RED decides to first score the road worth 2 points with the Woman Follower, which 
does not stand on the same space as the Robber. GREEN first scores the road worth 3 
points with the Woman Follower. RED then uses the Normal Follower to score the city 
worth 8 points. The Robber decides to rob half of the points from the Normal Follower (4 
points), because there were only 2 points available from the Woman Follower. 
 
3) RED decides to first score the road worth 2 points with the Woman Follower, which 
does not stand on the same space as the Robber. Then RED also scores the city worth 8 
points with the Woman Follower. GREEN first scores the city worth 6 points with the 
Normal Follower. The Robber can only rob half the points from the Normal Follower (3 
points) because the Woman Follower is not standing on the same space as the Robber. 
 

Example #4 
 
 
The BLUE Robber and the YELLOW Robber are on the same space as GREEN’s Normal 
Follower, GREEN’s Woman Follower, and RED’s Normal Follower. RED’s Woman Follower 
stands on a different space. With placement of one tile, GREEN scores points for a road (3 
points) and for a city (6 points), and RED scores points for a road (2 points) and for a city 
(8 points). 
 
Each feature scores separately. GREEN and RED can choose which of their scoring figures 
will score the points. The BLUE Robber and YELLOW Robber can only receive points from a 
scoring figure that stands on the same space that each of them is on. In this case, the 
BLUE Robber and the YELLOW Robber can definitely receive points from GREEN, because 
both scoring figures from GREEN are on the same space. The Robbers’ ability to rob points 
from RED will depend on which figure(s) RED chooses to move. Since the BLUE Robber 
and YELLOW Robber are on a space occupied by more than one scoring figure, and more 
than one figure is scoring points, each Robber chooses which player he is “robbing” half 
the points from. The BLUE Robber and YELLOW Robber get all of the information that they 
need about movement from the other players (RED and GREEN) before making the best 
decision about which points to rob. 
 
 
1) GREEN and RED each score with one of the scoring figures that was standing on the 
same space as the BLUE and YELLOW Robbers. They both decide to score their roads first. 
GREEN first scored the road worth 3 points with the Woman Follower. RED then scored 
the road worth 2 points with the Normal Follower. The BLUE Robber decided to rob half of 
the points from the Woman Follower (2 points), and the YELLOW Robber decided to rob 
the Normal Follower (1 point). Why choose to take fewer points? If YELLOW is the active 
player and can receive a message, this makes more sense. 
 
2) RED decides to first score the road worth 2 points with the Woman Follower, which 
does not stand on the same space as the Robbers. GREEN first scores the road worth 3 
points with the Woman Follower. RED then uses the Normal Follower to score the city 
worth 8 points. The BLUE Robber and the YELLOW Robber each decide to rob half of the 
points from the Normal Follower (4 points), because there were only 2 points available 
from the Woman Follower. 
 
3) RED decides to first score the road worth 2 points with the Woman Follower, which 
does not stand on the same space as the Robbers. Then RED also scores the city worth 8 
points with the Woman Follower. GREEN first scores the city worth 6 points with the 
Normal Follower. The BLUE Robber and YELLOW Robber can only rob half the points from 
the Normal Follower (3 points) because the Woman Follower is not standing on the same 
space as the Robbers. 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Crop Circles II (Mini #7) 
 
 
 6 new land tiles with crop circles 
 
 
The landscape cards with the crop circles are mixed with the other landscape tiles. 
 
 
A player who draws a tile with a crop circle places it according to the usual rules and 
carries out a normal turn. After that, he or she decides whether all players, starting with 
the player to his or her left: 
A) may432 take one of their own followers from their supply and deploy it next to 
another of their followers already on a landscape tile, or 
B) must remove one of their own followers from a landscape tile and return it to 
their supply. 
It is important to observe that 
 The active player must choose action A) or B). 
 The type of follower affected is decided by the tile drawn, as follows: 
 
‘Pitchfork’ crop circle 
This affects farmers (on a farm segment). 
 
 
‘Club’ crop circle 
This affects thieves (on a road segment). 
 
 
 
‘Shield’ crop circle 
This affects knights (on a city segment). 
 
 
432  Perhaps counter-intuitively, the HiG rules for option A) clearly state, both here and in the 
example scenario below, that players may decide whether to deploy a second follower next to one 
already in play. In other words, the active player decides what effect the crop circle has: A) 
deployment or B) removal. If removal, all players must remove one follower of the appropriate type. 
If deployment, the players may choose not to deploy a second follower. 
This would also clarify what a player should do if option A) is chosen but he or she has no followers in 
the supply. In this case, the player is ‘forced’ to ‘choose’ not to deploy a second follower. 
 

 When a player performs action A), he or she must deploy the follower to a feature 
which already contains a follower of the same type (farmer to a farmer, thief to a 
thief, knight to a knight).433 
 If a player is unable to perform the action, due to not having a follower of the 
required type in play, then he or she will be passed over and the player to the left 
should continue. 
 The active player performs the action last, and then next player should take their 
turn as usual. 
 
Example of option A) 
 
1. RED places a tile with a ‘shield’ crop 
circle and deploys a follower to it. RED 
chooses option A). Every player may deploy 
a knight (because of the ‘Shield’ symbol) 
next to a knight already in play. 
2. GREEN deploys a second knight next to 
the one already in play. 
3. BLUE does not have a knight and so 
cannot deploy one. 
4. RED deploys a second knight next to the one just deployed to the tile which was placed. She may not deploy a 
follower to the other city segment on the same tile because there is no knight on it. She could also have deployed 
her follower beside the knight on the top left tile. 
 
Example of option B): 
 
1. GREEN places a tile with a ‘pitchfork’ 
crop circle and deploys a follower to it. 
The city is scored: GREEN received 6 
points and removes his follower. Then 
he chooses option B). Every player must 
remove a farmer (because of the 
‘pitchfork’ symbol). 
2. BLUE removes his farmer. 
3. RED removes her farmer. 
4. GREEN does not have a farmer, and 
so cannot remove one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
433  Any follower in a city, including a Mayor or a Wagon, is considered to be a knight. 
 
 

 
This “expansion,” Crop Circles II, is considered #7 of the mini-expansions released in 
2012, but it does not exist as an independent set. Rather, one tile was packed with each 
of the preceding 6 mini-expansions. However, the rules for these tiles are unrelated to 
those mini-expansions, as they instead represent a return to the rules of the original Crop 
Circles expansion. (The version of the rules specific to Crop Circles II can be found on the 
HiG website, as it is not packaged with the tiles themselves). 
 
Tile Distribution 434 
Total Tiles: 6 (note: also counted in the 6 previous mini-expansions) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
434  Crop fields (the yellow areas) are distinct features and thus separate road segments and field 
segments. (1/2013) 
 

The Wind Roses 
originally released by Hans im Glück in 2012 435 
 
 
 6 new land tiles with wind roses 
Orange wind rose with starting tile back 
4 quarter-wind roses with normal back 
Blue wind rose with normal back 
 
 
Instead of the normal starting tile, the orange wind rose tile is used as the starting tile. 
The remaining 5 tiles with wind roses are mixed in with the normal landscape tiles. 
 
 
All normal rules of Carcassonne remain. 
 
The starting tile divides the playing area into 
four sections (NO [NE], SO [SE], SW, NW). 
For each of these sections there is an 
associated landscape tile. 
 
If a player draws one of the 4 tiles with a 
quarter-wind rose and (using the normal 
rules) places it in the corresponding section, 
he or she immediately receives 3 points.436 
These points are independent of any other 
scoring.437 The fields in the horizontal and vertical rows of the starting tile are a part of 
two sections. The wind roses do not affect the features in any way (e.g., they do not 
disrupt any roads). 
 
 
 
 
435  A more precise translation of the German would be “The Compass Roses,” as this is the 
English term for the symbols featured in this mini-expansion. However, “Wind Roses” seems more 
poetic, so that’s what I’m going with. 
 
436  Based on the language used here, it seems that the points are scored as soon as the tile is 
placed, before the Move Wood phase. (8/2013) 
 
437  Since the points are scored by themselves, and scoring of Wind Rose points evidently occurs 
before there is any scoring of completed features, they could presumably trigger taking of a Message 
tile. (8/2013) 

 
Spielbox Version 
The tiles in the Spielbox version of this expansion are marked only with N and S; the 
other two directions are not labeled on the windroses themselves. Thus, the rules are 
changed as follows: 
 
The starting tile divides the playing area into two sections (N and S); each of these 
sections has two new landscape tiles associated with it. 
 
The spaces in the horizontal row of the starting tile are part of two sections. 
 
 
The blue wind rose 
If the tile with the blue wind rose is drawn, it will be placed using the normal rules. The 
blue wind rose now, and for the rest of the game, takes over the function of the orange 
starting wind rose. That is, the playing area will now be divided into four sections438 in 
accordance with the blue wind rose. As a result, entirely new directions of the cardinal 
points arise. Players earn points when they now play more wind rose tiles following the 
orientation of the blue wind rose. 
 
 
 
RED places the "SW" tile on the correct gameboard section. RED 
receives 3 points for it. (The compass need not be placed in the 
same orientation as the starting wind rose.) Because the city was 
completed, BLUE receives 4 points. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
438  This is “two sections” in the Spielbox rules, in accordance with the differences described 
above. (11/2013) 
 

 
Original (Carcassonne‐on‐Tour) Version (2012) 
 
 
 
 
Spielbox Version (2013) 
 
 
 
 

Little Buildings (The Houses) 
originally released in Spielbox in 2012 
 
 
 18 building tiles: 6 houses, 6 towers, and 6 sheds 
 
 
Distribute the 18 new buildings evenly among all players. In the four- or five-player game, 
put the excess buildings back into the box. 
 
 
All three types of buildings are equivalent. 
 
The active player executes his or her normal actions during this turn. 
If the player is not able, or willing, to deploy a follower on the landscape tile, 
he/she can instead place one of the new little buildings on that tile.439 Put this 
building on the just-placed tile in such a way that no information is covered, if 
possible. 
 
The building is not associated with either a structure or a field on the tile, instead it 
affects the entire landscape tile. 
If a road, city, cloister, or farm is scored, each of the new buildings located on a 
landscape tile of the structure or the farm scores 1 additional point. 
These points are added during the scoring after all the others. When cloisters are scored, 
all buildings on adjacent tiles (within the cloister area) are included in the count. 
A building remains on the placed tile until the end of the game, and gives points for 
several structures and farms. 
 
The points for the buildings are awarded at the final scoring as well. 
This mini-expansion has been developed primarily for the Carcassonne basic game. 
 
Variant 
The building types have different values: 
 Towers +3 points 
 Houses +2 points 
 Sheds +1 point 
 
 
439  Thus, instead of placing a follower, a player can place a little building. If the player places a 
little building, he or she cannot move the fairy. If the player moves the fairy, he or she cannot place a 
little building. 
 

While distributing the tiles, make sure that each player gets the same number of each 
building type. 
 
Example: RED adds one tile (shown here 
with a red frame) and places a shed on it. 
With this action, he completes the city on the 
upper right and a road. RED scores 7 
points for the road (5 tiles and 2 buildings). 
RED scores 10 points for the city (3 city 
segments and 1 pennant for 2 points each 
plus 2 buildings). At this point, BLACK'S farm 
contains 3 buildings, and BLUE'S cloister has 
2 buildings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tile Distribution Total Tiles: 0 (18 Little Buildings) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

originally released by Hans im Glück in 2013 
 
 
 6 new land tiles 
 
 
 
The six normal land tiles should be mixed in with the other land tiles. Except for the 
 
 
 
Cities which contain Besiegers tiles are said to be besieged. Whenever a besieged city is 
completed during the course of play, each tile and each pennant in that city score only 1 
point instead of the usual 2. If the city contains a cathedral, it scores only 2 points for 
every tile. Should the city remain incomplete at the end of the game, it scores no points 
during the final scoring. 
 
 
It is possible to escape a besieged city via a neighboring cloister.440 441 442 If a cloister 
directly borders a Besiegers tile,443 even diagonally—then at the end of a player's turn, 
he or she may remove one knight444 from the city and return it to the supply.445 
 
 
440  A knight in a besieged city can also escape via an abbey, as the abbey has all the 
characteristics of a cloister. 
 
441  A knight in a besieged city can escape via a shrine, as the shrines are, for the most part, 
identical to cloisters. That goes for escape as well. 
 
442  Mayors and wagons can also escape a besieged city via cloisters and abbeys (although it 
 
443  Note that here, as in The Cathars, a cloister must be placed directly adjacent to a 
Cathar/Besieger tile to allow a knight to escape; whereas RGG's rules for siege tiles say that a 
cloister must be placed adjacent to any tile of a besieged city. For the sake of consistency, at the 
beginning of the game it would be useful to select only one of these rules when combining tiles from 
these sets. Purists can choose the Cathar/Besiegers rule, as it’s the German original, although the 
RGG Siege rule makes escape much more viable. 

 
 
 
 
farm, or 8 points for a farm with a pig.446 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
444  Only one knight can escape a besieged city per turn. It’s irrelevant whether the followers are 
 
445  Question: Can I simply free a knight after a turn, if a cloister borders [a besieged city], or do 
conditions (cloister next to a Besiegers tile) are fulfilled. A player is not obliged to build onto the city, 
nor onto the cloister. He or she must simply have a knight in the city. 
 
446  A player still scores double points for a besieged city if it lies on a farm with a barn. 
 

 
Reference Guides 
 
 
 

Game Figures 
 
Followers 
Every normal follower, big follower, mayor, wagon or phantom follower is just one 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special figures 
Builders, pigs and barns are not followers. 
 
 
 
 
 
Counting figures 
In addition to a normal figure placed on the scoreboard, women followers and robbers are 
played only to the scoreboard. These are truly also Special Figures, not followers. 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutral figures 
The dragon, fairy, Count, tower pieces, big pink pig, teacher, bridges, Mage and Witch, 
ferries, and gold pieces are neutral, and once in play, don’t belong to anyone. 
(Nonetheless, gold pieces can ultimately be claimed.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Order of Play 
based on the excellent summary by Skull One 
 
Any time during your turn: 
 
 You may ask for advice. 
 You may read the rules for the expansions you are playing with. 
 You may buy back any one of your imprisoned followers. 
 You may claim an unclaimed tunnel portal by placing a tunnel token on it. 
 You may allow a follower to take flight from the Plague (once an infestation is 
active). 
 You must spread the plague by placing a flea token (once an infestation is active). 
 
Step 1: Begin Turn 
 
a) If the fairy is next to one of your followers, score 1 point. If also playing with the 
Dispatches expansion, choose which counting follower to move, proceed to Step 
6H, then return. 
b) Eliminate an Outbreak if no fleas are left in the supply. 
 
Step 2: Draw a Tile 
 
a) If you have an abbey tile you may draw it in place of drawing a regular tile. 
b) Show the tile to all players. 
c) If Wheel of Fortune icon is on the tile, resolve Wheel of Fortune. 
 
Step 3: Place the Tile 
 
a) You may build a bridge. The bridge may be built on the tile just placed or a tile 
orthogonal to the tile just placed. If the tile placed was placed in a way that 
would normaly be illegal, but if by building bridge would make it legal, you must 
do so at this time. (Otherwise, a bridge can be placed at any time during the 
turn.) 
b) If a volcano symbol is on the tile, place the dragon on this tile and skip Steps 4A, 
4B, and 4F. 
c) If a princess symbol is on the tile, and the tile is added to an existing city with a 
knight on it, you may remove a knight of your choice and skip all of Step 4. 
d) If a plague source is on the tile, the lowest numbered Outbreak token not yet in 
play must be placed on it. Skip Steps 4A and 4F. 
e) If a festival symbol is on the tile, the player may either proceed to Step 4 as usual, 
or return one of his or her figures to his or her supply and skip Steps 4A, 4B, 4C, 
and 4F. 
f) If an aircraft symbol is on the tile, the player may either proceed to Step 4 as usual 
or roll the die to attempt to place a flier and skip Steps 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, and 4E. 
g) If a gold symbol is on the tile, the player must place a gold piece on that tile and 
an adjacent tile. 

h) If a mage symbol is on the tile, or if the tile joins the features with the Mage and 
Witch, the player must move the Mage or the Witch. 
i) If a robber symbol is on the tile, the robber can be placed on the scoreboard. 
j) If there is a quarter-wind rose on the tile and the player places the tile in the 
appropriate quadrant of the playing field, the player scores 3 points. 
 
Step 4: Move the Wood 
 
Step 4A: Move the Wood (Phase 1) 
 
You may do one and only one of the following: 
 Deploy a follower. 
 Deploy the big follower. 
 Deploy the mayor. 
 Deploy the wagon. 
 
Step 4B: Move the Wood (Phase 2) 
 
If you did nothing during Step 4A, you may do one and only one of the following: 
 Deploy the pig. 
 Deploy the builder. 
 
Step 4C: Move the Wood (Phase 3) 
 
If you did nothing during Step 4A or 4B, you may: 
 Deploy the barn. The farm will not be scored until Step 6 as a normal feature. 
 
Step 4D: Move the Wood (Phase 4) 
 
If you did nothing during Step 4A, 4B, or 4C, you may do one and only one of the 
following: 
 Place a tower piece on any tower base or available tower. 
 Place a follower on the Wheel of Fortune. 
 Place a little building on the tile just played. 
 
Step 4E: Move the Wood (Phase 5) 
 
If you did nothing during Step 4A, 4B, 4C, or 4D, you may: 
 Move the fairy. 
 
Step 4F: Move the Wood (Phase 6) 
 
 You may place the phantom 
 
 

Step 5: Resolve Move the Wood 
 
a) HiG & ZMG rules: If a dragon symbol was on the placed tile, move the dragon. 
b) If a tower piece was placed, resolve possible capture of a follower. If two players 
have captured one of each other's followers, they are immediately exchanged. 
c) If a ferry lake was on the placed tile, place a ferry. 
d) If placement of a tile extended a road with a ferry, the ferry may (optionally) be 
moved. 
 
Step 6: Resolve Completed Features 
 
a) Identify all completed features, including farms to be scored due to barn placement 
or joining of a farm with a farmer to one with a barn. 
b) If the Gingerbread Man is in a completed city, all players with knights in the city 
receive points. The active player then places the Gingerbread Man in an 
unfinished city of his or her choice.447 
c) The current player chooses the order in which the features resolve. 
d) Repeat Step 6A through 6G for each completed feature in the order chosen. 
 
Step 6A: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 1) 
 
a) If a town was created by the tile placement, the town may be converted into a 
castle by the occupying player. If converted, skip Steps 6B through 6F for the 
newly built castle, and proceed to the next completed feature (if any). 
 
Step 6B: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 2) 
 
a) Collect trade good tokens. 
b) If there is at least one gold piece on a tile with the completed structure, gold pieces 
are distributed to the player(s) with the majority. 
c) If the completed feature is a city or road, check to see if it is the new largest one 
and receive the King or Robber Baron. 
d) If a Heretic or Monk completes its feature, determine if a “race to completion” 
needs to be resolved. 
e) All players may move one or more followers from the City of Carcassonne. 
 
Step 6C: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 3) 
 
a) If a fairy is next to a follower in the completed feature, that follower’s owner 
receives 3 points. Perform Step 6E and return. 
 
 
 
447  The Gingerbread Man is an expansion to the Winter Edition, thus is not a sanctioned part of 
the Carcassonne standard edtion. However, for any adventurous players, this is where the rule would 
fall. 
 

Step 6D: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 4) 
 
a) Resolve control of the completed feature. 
b) Tally points for the completed feature. 
c) Award points to controlling player(s). 
 
Step 6E: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 5) 
 
a) If playing with the Dispatches expansion, the player receiving the points for the 
feature chooses which counting follower will be moved. 
b) If playing with the Robbers expansion, check to see if a Robber is next to the 
counting follower that is about to be moved for scoring and resolve all “Robber 
Points”. Note that this decision can be postponed until all counting followers have 
moved one time if there are multiple counting followers on the space that will 
move on this turn and from which the Robber could gain points. 
c) Whoever controls the Teacher scores the same number of points that were 
awarded. The Teacher is then returned to the School. 
d) Remove the Mage or Witch if they were involved in the scoring of this completed 
feature. 
 
Step 6F: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 6) 
 
a) Move any wagons on completed features to any adjoining unoccupied uncompleted 
feature. If more than one wagon can move, the current player moves first, and 
then order of movement proceeds clockwise. 
b) Return all remaining followers on the completed feature to their owners. 
c) If playing with the School expansion, check to see if one or more of its roads were 
completed. If so, the player completing the road recieves the Teacher from the 
School tiles. 
 
Step 6G: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 7) 
 
a) If there are any more completed features to be resolved, return to Step 6A. 
 
Step 6H: Resolve Completed Features (Phase 8) 
 
a) If playing with the Dispatches expansion, if one of the counting followers of the 
active player is on one of the dark number spaces, the active player draws a 
Dispatch tile and resolves its effects appropriately. 
 
 
 

Step 7: Resolve Turn 
 
a) If the active player did not score any points from placement of the tile, but one or 
more opponents did, the active player may place a follower in the City of 
Carcassonne. Then the active player moves the Count to a quarter of his or her 
choice. 
b) RGG rules only: If a dragon symbol was on the placed tile, move the dragon. 
c) If a fair symbol was on the placed tile, use the catapult. 
d) If a bazaar symbol was on the placed tile (and the tile was not purchased during an 
auction), resolve an auction. 
e) If a crop circle was on the placed tile, the active player determines whether all 
players now A) may deploy a follower next to one already in play or B) must 
remove a follower. The type of follower is determined by the type of crop circle. 
f) If a gingerbread man symbol was on the placed tile, the active player moves the 
Gingerbread Man to another unfinished city. All players with knights in the initial 
city receive points. Perform Step 6E and 6H as necessary.448 
g) If the builder was already on part of the feature added to, repeat Steps 2 through 
7e once more and only once more. 
h) One knight may be removed from a besieged city if a cloister directly borders any 
tile of that city (Cults & Sieges) or if a cloister directly borders a Cathar tile (The 
Cathars) or Besiegers tile (The Besiegers). 
 
 
 
 
448  The Gingerbread Man is an expansion to the Winter Edition, thus is not a sanctioned part of 
the Carcassonne standard edtion. However, for any adventurous players, this is where the rule would 
fall. 
 

Scoring During the Game 
 
Completed Features 
Road (thief) 
 
Road with inn 
 
City (knight) 
 
 
City with cathedral 
 
 
City with Cathar or Siege 
2 points / pennant 
 
3 points / tile 
3 points / pennant 
 
(-1) point / tile 
(-1) point / pennant 
 
Cloister (monk) 
Shrine (heretic) 
9 points 
(the cloister or shrine and the eight 
tiles around it) 
When a challenge is declared between a cloister and a shrine, the first to be 
completed scores the usual 9 points; the loser scores 0 points. 
When the first feature adjacent to an occupied castle is completed, the 
occupier of the castle scores the full number of points for the feature (even if 
the feature is unoccupied). 
Majority of farmers on placing a barn 
(basic) 
with Cathar or Siege 
3 points / completed city 
Majority of farmers on connecting to farm with a barn 
(basic) 
with Cathar or Siege 
1 point / completed city 
Road or city with Mage 
Road or city with Witch 
Robber beside scoring counting figure 
 (+1) point / tile 
½ feature points (rounded up) 
½ primary points scored 
 

Other scoring during the game 
 
Fairy 
Fairy when scoring 
1 point / turn start 
3 points / scoring 
Archery tournament 
Token which lands closest to the target fair tile scores the hurler 5 points. 
Playing catch 
caught 
not caught—and not far enough 
not caught—but far enough 
touched—but not caught 
 
Catcher 5 points 
Catcher 5 points 
Hurler 5 points 
Hurler 5 points 
 
Dispatch 
2 points OR depends on tile 
 
Teacher control 
Equal points to next score 
 
Windrose placement 
3 points 
 
 
Little Building on feature’s tile 
 
1, 2, or 3 points 
 

Scoring After the Game 
 
Incomplete features 
Road (thief) 
 
Road with inn 
 
City (knight) 
 
 
City with cathedral 
 
 
City with Cathar / Siege 
 
 
City if La Porxada control 
1 point / pennant 
 
0 points / pennant 
 
0 points / pennant 
 
2 points / pennant 
 
Cloister (monk) 
Shrine (heretic) 
(the cloister or shrine and each of the eight tiles 
around it) 
If a challenge has not been resolved by the end of the game, both cloister and 
shrine receive the usual 1 point / tile. 
If a castle is still occupied at the end of the game, it scores 0 points. 
 
Farmers 
 
with Cathar / Siege 
3 points / completed city 
4 points / castle 
(+1) point / castle or completed city 
(+1) point / castle or completed city 
 
 
Barn 
 
with Cathar / Siege 
4 points / completed city 
5 points / castle 
 
Road or city with Mage 
Road or city with Witch 
 
(+1) point / tile 
½ feature points (rounded up) 
 
 

Other scoring at the end of the game 
Trade counters 
10 points / majority 
 
Robber baron 
1 point / completed road 
 
King 
1 point / completed city 
 
Gold Pieces 
1-3 pieces 
4-6 pieces 
7-9 pieces 
10+ pieces 
 
1 point / gold piece 
2 points / gold piece 
3 points / gold piece 
4 points / gold piece 
 
 
Little Building on 
feature’s tile 
 
1, 2, or 3 points 
 
 
 

Summary of Rule Sets and Changes 
 
 
Pre-Big Box 
(HiG) 
Pre-Big Box 
(RGG) 
Latest rules 
(HiG) 
Latest rules 
(RGG & ZMG) 
starting player 
any method 
agreed upon by 
all 
‘small city’ rule 
farmer scoring 
1st edition 
2nd tile (double 
turn) 
drawn 
immediately 
drawn 
immediately 
drawn after 
scoring 
drawn after 
scoring 
builders & pigs 
are followers 
are followers 
are not followers are not followers 
volcano / fairy 
cannot move fairycannot move fairy can move fairy 
cannot move fairy 
(implicit) 
volcano / 
deployment 
follower, builder, 
follower, builder 
may deploy 
builder or pig, but
not follower 
follower, builder 
magic portal to 
unscored 
feature 
yes (no in FAQ) 
princess tile 
knight or builder 
knight or builder 
may remove 
princess / big 
can only remove 
if 
last follower in 
i
follower (implicit) 
the dragon 
moves 
before scoring 
(FAQ)
? 
before scoring 
after scoring 
towers capture 
everything 
everything 
followers 
followers 
tower captures 
followers on 
towers 
yes (FAQ) 
tower captures 
own followers 
last follower is 
builder or pig not 
removed (FAQ) 
builder or pig not 
(implicit) 
builder or pig 
builder or pig 
 
 
 

Summary of Figure Characteristics 
Originally by David Whitworth 
 
1. Followers 
 
 
Follower, 
Phantom^
Big follower 
Mayor 
Wagon 
deploy to cloister 
(etc)? 
yes * 
yes * 
# pennants in 
city $ 
yes % 
yes % 
 
^ The phantom acts entirely as a normal follower, except the phantom can also be the 2nd figure 
placed in a turn. 
* Placed on a tile with a tower foundation and block(s) on it—to stop the tower being heightened and 
capturing prisoners. A follower on a tower does not count toward the majority of any completed 
feature of which the tile may be a part. 
% Even if the followers are on top of another tower. 
$ If there are no pennants in the city, the mayor counts zero and alone cannot score the city. But the 
mayor, even at zero, does “occupy” the city and prevents other followers being deployed there. He 
also is a valid “follower” for adding a builder in the city (as is the wagon). 
§ When placed in a city. 
 

2. Special Figures 
 
 
Builder 
Pig 
Barn 
Woman follower, 
Robber 
to the scoring 
track. 
 
 
 
@ Note that while the pig and builder cannot be captured by the tower, seduced by the princess or 
escape to a cloister/abbey/shrine, they will be removed from the board if their supporting follower 
(farmer for pig; knight, wagon, mayor, or thief for builder) is removed by these means. Also note that 
if any supporting follower is removed by the dragon, the pig or builder is also removed. 
 
 
 
 

3. Neutral Figures 
 
 
Count 
Dragon 
Fairy 
Tower block 
in Carcassonne 
Deployed to 
volcano tiles 
when placed. 
Moves to any 
other tile (as 
per rules) when 
a dragon tile is 
placed, except 
the fairy’s tile 
and those of 
 
Anywhere next 
to a follower 
(not a special 
figure), except 
in Carcassonne 
Any tile with an 
empty tower 
foundation, or 
on top of 
another tower 
block. 
 
cloister (etc)? 
 
 
 
 

 
Mage 
Big Pink Pig 
Teacher 
to Wheel of 
Fortune, and 
only moves 
around the 
Wheel sectors.
to the school. 
Is temporarily 
placed in front 
of players who 
complete 
school roads. 
 
 
 
 

 
Ferries 
Gold Pieces 
Flier Die 
Placed on tiles 
with a gold 
symbol or 
adjacent to one 
of these tiles. 
Placement is 
not specific to a
single feature.
Not really 
deployed 
anywhere. Just 
rolled when a 
flier is to be 
deployed. 
on roads that 
have ends on 
lakes. 
 
 

Mega-Carcassonne 
 
With so many expansions to the basic game, there are numerous ways to combine them 
with each other. Many people choose which expansions to play on a game-to-game 
basis—and the recent addition of small watermarks on the tiles has helped in this—while 
others prefer to mix all the expansions together and play what has become known as 
‘mega-Carcassonne’. 
 
Throughout the rules, there are a few indications of what a game of mega-Carcassonne 
would look like. I’ve listed them below: 
 
 Question: When the two River sets are combined, should we make two rivers 
(using the two springs) or discard one spring and one lake and make just one 
river? Answer: One spring and one lake are discarded. 
 Question: If you combine Count, King and Consorts with The River II, you will 
now have two forks. Obviously one of those gets placed immediately, but should 
the other one be mixed in with the rest of the river tiles, or put to one side? 
Answer: In fact, that means using The River II twice. We didn’t plan that, and I 
think that it will lead to problems with placement. Whoever wants to do it should 
go ahead, but there’s no rules for it. Sorry! 
 If you decide to use The Count of Carcassonne and The River II as starting tiles for 
a game, it is possible that one will not be able to use all of the river tiles if they 
are placed too close to the City of Carcassonne. River tiles which cannot be 
placed should be removed from the game, in accordance with the basic rules. 
Even if the river cannot be placed in its entirety, the game should proceed in the 
usual way. 
 
As such, the following guidelines can be inferred: 
 
 A game of mega-Carcassonne should include one copy of the basic game and one 
of each expansion. 
 If, because of Count, King and Consorts, you have acquired two copies of an 
expansion (of The River II, The Count of Carcassonne, and King and Robber 
Baron) you should discard one copy. 
 If you combine river sets, you should only create one river, discarding the surplus 
spring and lake tiles. 
 It is also fair to say that the lake tiles from The River II should be used in 
preference to the one from The River, and the spring tile from GQ11 should be 
used instead of those from The River II or The River. 
 The original starting tile should be discarded rather than mixed in with the other 
land tiles (although if you draw tiles from a bag, it’s probably not really necessary 
to discard it). 
 And finally, in the rare case that a tile cannot be placed anywhere, it is removed 
from the game, and the player draws another. 
 

Of course, a game of mega-Carcassonne need not be ended until all the tiles have been 
played (a very long game!) but could easily be shortened by using only one half of the 
tower dispenser. 
There is, in fact, no reason why you shouldn’t combine multiple sets in some logical 
manner. So, for example, you may well decide to include the land tiles of King and Robber 
Baron with the ‘duplicate’ land tiles in Count, King and Consorts, while leaving out the 
duplicate King and Robber Baron (there is simply no way to include two of those). And you 
might include two copies of The River II, either mixing the extra fork tile with the others, 
or omitting it altogether. Nowhere in the rules does it say that every tile used must have a 
unique configuration: the basic game includes eight ‘frfr’ tiles (a field divided by a road). 
 
Starting expansions 
 
The general order in which ‘starting’ expansions should be placed would seem to be: 
 
 The Wheel of Fortune 
 The Count of Carcassonne 
 any River expansions 
 The Wind Roses 
 The School 
 
I put The School last to allow continuation of a road from one of the river roads; 
attaching The School to The Count (for example) would immediately complete one of the 
6 school roads. 
 
It is important to note that, like any other feature, the river does not have to be completed 
(that is, ended with a lake) if the playing area does not allow it. 
 
The Plague expansion states that 17 of the normal land tiles from the basic game must be 
separated out and placed before the rest of the tiles, into which the plague source tiles 
have been mixed, are used. The number 17 seems to have been chosen because there are 
18 flea tokens (17 + 1 starting tile). There is, as yet, no indication of what to do if other 
expansions are being used: the most logical approach would seem to be either: 
 
 to include any tiles from ‘starting’ expansions in the 17 ‘separated’ tiles; or 
 to separate 17 additional tiles, to be played after any ‘starting’ expansions 
 
As soon as a final ruling is made, this document will be updated. However, as HiG notes 
that the Plague was not intended for use with other expansions, a final ruling for this may 
be a long time coming. 
 
The following table lists the total number of tiles available in a complete set of mega-
Carcassonne, as well as the ‘spare’ tiles which will be left over (such as surplus springs) if 
you use all the expansions. 
 
 
 

Tile Overview by Release 
 
No. 
Land 
Extra 
Special 
‘Spare’ 
(THE BASIC GAME) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE COUNT OF CARCASSONNE
 
 
 
THE PRINCESS & THE DRAGON
 
 
 
 
 
 
COUNT, KING AND CONSORTS
 
 
 
 THE COUNT OF CARCASSONNE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(0b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PHANTOM 
 
 
THE SCHOOL 
 
 
 

No. 
Land 
Extra 
Special 
‘Spare’ 
 
THE MESSAGES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This table lists the total number of tiles available in the basic game and in each expansion. 
 
General Notes 
 
 The first column lists the number of the expansion. Only main—boxed—expansions 
have numbers. 
 The second column lists the title of the set. 
 The third column lists the number of land tiles include in the set. Tiles such as the 
King, Robber Baron, abbeys, and point tiles are excluded (see ‘Extra Tiles’). Tiles 
which are not used if the set is combined with other expansions in a game of 
mega-Carcassonne are also excluded from this column (see ‘Spare Tiles’). 
 The fourth column lists the extra land tiles which come with the set—such as 
abbeys, the city of Carcassonne, or the wheel of fate. 
 The fifth column lists the special tiles which come with the set—such as the King, 
the Robber Baron and point tiles. 
 The sixth and final column lists the tiles which are surplus when the set is 
combined with other expansions in a game of mega-Carcassonne. So, for 
example, the basic game shows a ‘1’ in this column, as the starting tile is not 
used when it is combined with a river or The Count of Carcassonne, and the lake 
and spring tiles from The River are not used if combined with The River II. 
 
Extra Tiles 
 
 The Count of Carcassonne: all 12 tiles of the City of Carcassonne are considered to 
be additional tiles, not part of the usual game. The farm and city segments are 
nevertheless scored as usual. 
 Abbey and Mayor: 6 abbey tiles. 
 The Wheel of Fortune: 16 tiles composing the Wheel itself. As stated in the rules, 
the various land segments surrounding the Wheel are scored in the usual way. 
 The School: 2 tiles making up the school. 
 
 

Special Tiles 
 
 Inns and Cathedrals: the 6 tiles listed are the point tiles (50/100 points). 
 King and Robber Baron: the 2 tiles are the King and, er, the Robber Baron. 
 Cult, Siege and Creativity: 2 blank tiles (the ‘creativity’ part). 
 The Dispatches: 8 dispatch tiles. 
 
Spare Tiles 
 
 The basic game: the starting tile is usually discarded when the basic game is 
combined with other expansions such as The River. 
 The River: If combined with The River II, the original lake tile should be discarded; 
and if combined with the GQ expansion, the original spring tile should be 
discarded. 
 The River II: if combined with the GQ expansion, the spring tile should be 
discarded. 
 Count, King and Consorts: these tiles are listed as ‘spare’ because they duplicate 
the tiles of the original releases. 
 There is some debate about whether The Spielbox Almanac really constitutes an 
expansion. Those who think that it does not should consider the five tiles as part 
of the final column instead. 
 
 
 

Consolidated Tile Reference 
 
 
The distribution lists here are organised by card type, as well as by set/expansion. More 
precisely, they are organised by the topological relation of their sides. The legend ‘ffff’ on 
a tile in the game distribution lists below denotes a tile on which all four sides are fields; 
‘rrrr’ one on which all sides are roads; and ‘cccc’ one on which all sides are cities. The 
section title ‘City, field, road, field,’ would correspond to ‘cfrf’, and describes a tile with the 
following arrangement: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of which this tile would be an example: 
 
 
 
The arrangement always proceeds clockwise from the topmost position. Furthermore, the 
tile notation and section headings are ordered alphabetically, according to the following 
hierarchy: 
 
cities (c) 
fields (f) 
roads (r) 
rivers (s)—think of ‘streams’ 
 
Practically speaking, that means that a city is always placed at the top, and the rest of the 
tile described clockwise from that starting point. If there is more than one city, the first 
city—again seen clockwise—is placed at the top. If there is no city at all, then a field is 
placed at the top, and so on. 
 
 
 

 
Further examples: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clearly, the internal content of the tile is not being considered. The three tiles above are 
all grouped under different sections, even though they may all be used to connect two city 
segments on the top and bottom. 
 
Similarly, both the tiles below are to be found under ‘City, city, city, city’. 
 
 
 
 
The reason for this organisation should be clear if you consider a situation where, deep 
into a game, there is a ‘hole’ in the playing field: only a tile with a certain arrangement of 
sides will fit. 
 
I have also included a separate distribution list for the various river tiles, as well as for tile 
symbols and features. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

City, city, city, city 
 
 
 
 

 
 

City, city, city, field 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

City, city, city, road 
 
 
 
 
 

City, city, field, field 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

City, city, field, road 
 
 
 
 
 

City, city, road, field 
 
 
 
 

City, city, road, road 
 
 
 
 

 
 

City, field, city, field 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

City, field, city, road 
 
 
 
 
 

City, field, field, field 
 
 
 x5 

 
 

City, field, field, road 
 
 
 
 
 

City, field, road, field 
 
 
 
 

 
 

City, field, road, road 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

City, road, city, road 
 
 
 OR 
 x1,449 
 
 
 
 
449 The second tile shown is the Big Box replacement for the first tile. In both tiles, the crossing in the 
center divides the road into two segments. Compare with the second tile of GQ11, which has only one 
road segment. 

 
 
 

City, road, field, field 
 
 
 
 

City, road, field, road 
 
 
 x4 450 
 
 
450 Including the starting tile. 

City, road, road, field 
 
 
 
 
 

City, road, road, road 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Field, field, field, field 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Field, field, field, road 
 
 
 
 

Field, field, road, road 
 
 
 x9 
 
 
 

 x7 
 
 

Field, road, field, road 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Field, road, road, road 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Road, road, road, road 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

The river 
 
 
Spring, fork, and lake 
 
Spring 
(GQ11) 
 
 
Fork 
 
Lake 
 
 
 

Other River Tiles 
 
City, city, river, river 
 
 
City, river, road, river 
 
 
City, river, city, river 
(The River x1, GQ11 x1) 
Farm, farm, river, river 
(The River x2, The River II x1) 
 
 
Farm, river, farm, river 
 
 
Farm, river, road, river 

Road, road, river, river 
Road, river, road, river 
 
 

Other special starting tiles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other special tiles 
 
 
 x6 
 
The Messages 
 

Symbols and Features 
 
Abbeys 
Aircraft 
Bazaars 
Cathedrals 
Cloisters 
KING AND SCOUT 
GQ EXPANSION 
Cloth traders 
Dragons 
Fairs 
Festivals 
 
 

Fleas 
Gold Mines 
Grain traders 
Inns (by lakes) 
Lakes (for ferries) 
Mages 
Magic Portals 
Open Junctions 
Pennants 
Pig-Herds 
 
 

Plague Sources 
Porxada, La 
Princesses 
Robbers 
School 
THE SCHOOL 
Shrines 
Tower foundations 
Tunnels (tiles) 
Volcanos 
Wheels of Fortune 
Wine traders 
 
 
 
 

A Carcassonne Glossary 
1st edition scoring 
Scoring the farms from the perspective 
of the cities. Until 2008, this was the 
method still used by RGG. 
 
2nd edition scoring 
Farms were scored from the perspective 
of the farms themselves—pick a farm, 
count the farmers on it, and the player 
with the most farmers scores 3 points 
for every city touching the farm. But like 
1st edition rules, each city could only be 
scored once. 
 
3rd edition scoring 
Count all the completed cities on a farm; 
the player with the majority of farmers 
scores 3 points for each. Since 2008, 
this method is current in both RGG and 
HiG versions of the game, and is the 
method described in this document. 
 
abbey 
A special tile which can only 
be placed in a hole in the 
playing field, but can be 
placed irrespective of the 
contents of adjacent tiles. A 
follower deployed to an abbey is a monk 
and may be challenged by a shrine; the 
abbey is scored in the same way as a 
completed cloister. A cloister may 
challenge or be challenged by a shrine. 
 
active player 
The player whose turn it currently is. 
Even when other players carry out 
actions during a player’s turn (such as 
parachuting followers in, or taking part 
in a round of bidding), they are not 
considered to be active. 
 
adjacent 
Tiles which are next to each other 
horizontally, vertically, or diagonally are 
said to be adjacent to each other. The 
sides which touch are also said to be 
adjacent, and must contain the same 
features on both tiles: that is, a road 
must continue in a road, and so on—
except in the case of the abbey, which 
does not continue a feature, or a bridge, 
which allows a road to lead to a farm, 
although the road is actually continued 
by the bridge. 
Cities are also sometimes described as 
being adjacent to farms. In this case it is 
not the field segment of a particular tile 
which is referred to, but the expanse of 
a farm as a whole. 
With regard to the wagon, an ‘adjacent 
feature’ is more or less synonymous with 
‘neighboring feature’. 
For a castle, adjacent means on one of 
the two tiles on which the castle itself 
stand, the two to its left, or the two to 
its right: a total of six tile. 
In a plague region, adjacent means 
horizontally or vertically, but not 
diagonally. 
 
advice 
According to the basic rules, all players 
may—if they wish—offer ‘advice’ to the 
player whose turn it currently is about 
where to place their tile. There is 
nothing to say that this must be good 
advice. 
 
aircraft 
A symbol found in The Flier mini-
expansion which allows placement of a 
follower onto a different tile with the roll 
of a die. 
 
 

auction 
Another word for a bazaar, or more 
specifically the round of bidding which 
takes place when a bazaar tile is placed. 
 
bag (1) 
Included in Traders and Builders, the 
bag is an alternative to using stacks or 
the tile dispenser. 
 
bag (2) 
See le sac. 
 
barn 
Included in Abbey and Mayor, 
the barn is placed on the 
intersection of four field 
segments. On placement, all 
farmers on that farm are removed 
immediately and score 3 points per 
completed city touching the farm. This 
score may be adjusted by a pig, a pig-
herd, or a Cathar /siege tile. Any farmers 
subsequently joining this farm score 1 
point (plus adjustments) for every 
completed city and are then removed. 
During final scoring, every completed 
city on the farm with the barn scores 4 
points (plus adjustments). 
 
basic game 
The original Carcassonne, without any 
expansions. Also known as ‘vanilla 
Carcassonne’. 
 
bazaar 
Included in Bridges, 
Castles and Bazaars, the 
placement of a tile with a 
bazaar opens a round of 
bidding. 
besieged city 
A city which included either a Cathar tile 
or a siege tile. A besieged city scores 
only 1 point per tile and pennant when it 
is completed (or 2 points with a 
cathedral), and scores 0 points if it is not 
completed by the end of the game. 
However, if it is completed, then it 
scores double points during the final 
scoring for the player with the majority 
on an adjacent farm. It is possible to 
escape from a besieged city (see below). 
 
BGG 
See BoardGameGeek. 
 
bid 
When a bazaar tile is placed, a round of 
bidding is opened. The player who 
placed the tile draws the same number 
of tiles as there are players. The player 
next to him or her then selects one tile 
and bids a certain number of points for 
it. In turn, each player may then raise 
the bid or pass once. The player who 
selected the tile may then choose to buy 
or sell the tile to the highest bidder. 
Then the next player may select a tile 
and begin a round of bidding. However, 
no player who has purchased a tile may 
select or bid for another. 
When there is only one tile left, the 
remaining player receives the tile for 
free. Play then continues as normal, 
beginning with the player after the one 
who originally placed the bazaar tile. 
 
Big Box 
A Carcassonne compilation released in 
2006, containing all the major 
expansions released until that point. The 
Big Box offered extensively revised and 
streamlined rules, inspiring the original 
creation of this document. 
 
 

big follower 
A follower included in Inns and 
Cathedrals which has a strength of two. 
That is, although the big follower is still 
only a single follower, it counts as two 
for the purpose of calculating the 
majority. In all other ways the big 
follower is identical to the normal 
 
big pig 
Included in The Wheel of 
Fate, the big pig is an 
oversized pink pig which is 
placed on the Wheel, facing clockwise. 
Whenever a tile with a Wheel icon is 
drawn, the pig is moved around the 
wheel the same number of sectors as 
shown in the icon. Landing in a sector 
triggers an event, and any followers 
stood on a crown plinth in that sector 
are scored. 
 
blacksmith quarter 
to roads as they are being scored. 
 
blank tile 
The ‘creativity’ component of Cult, Siege 
and Creativity. Let your imagination run 
free! 
 
BoardGameGeek 
The largest online board-gaming 
community. Website: 
http://boardgamegeek.com/. Often 
abbreviated to BGG. 
bridge (1) 
First included in Traders 
and Builders, a bridge is 
not a crossing—the road 
segments run continuously 
over or under each other. 
However, in the example shown, the 
farm segments do not continue under 
the bridge. 
Similarly, a city may bridge 
another city, as in the 
example shown. In this 
case there are also two 
separate cities. 
 
bridge (2) 
In Bridges, Castles and 
Bazaars, a bridge piece 
may be placed in addition 
to a tile and follower. It 
must be placed on farm segments, 
either on the tile being placed or on one 
which touches it horizontally or 
vertically. Such a bridge continues a 
road, over any features underneath it, 
and is scored in the same way as a 
normal road segment. 
 
builder 
A special figure included in Traders 
and Builders, the builder is 
dependent on a follower for 
placement. It may be placed on a 
road or in a city; should the feature be 
extended during the player’s next turn, 
then the player may take a double turn. 

capture 
Any follower within range of a tower 
which is under construction may be 
captured and so taken prisoner by a 
player placing a new tower piece on the 
tower. Every tower piece of the tower 
increases the range by one tile 
horizontally and vertically, even over 
gaps in the playing field or other towers. 
Such captured followers may then be 
exchanged or ransomed back to the 
player. 
 
CarcassonneCentral 
[shameless plug]The premiere 
Carcassonne-related website in the 
English-speaking world: 
http://carcassonnecentral.com/. Often 
abbreviated to CC.[/shameless plug] 
 
CAR 
See Complete Annotated Rules. 
 
castle 
In Bridges, Castles and Bazaars, a small 
city of two semi-circular segments, 
which is either already occupied, or 
occupied by the player placing the 
second tile, may be converted into a 
castle. The small city is not considered 
to be completed, and the occupied 
castle is only completed when a 
structure on an adjacent tile is 
completed. The castle then scores the 
full points for the completed structure, 
whether or not the structure itself 
scored any. 
 
castle quarter 
to cities as they are being scored. 
 
catapult 
Found in the expansion of the same 
name, the catapult comes into play 
when a fête tile is placed, and is used 
for hurling a variety of tokens. The 
player selects one of the four mini-
games: food fight, seduction, playing 
catch, or archery practice. 
 
catch 
Catapult. A player should 
place the ruler half-way 
between him- or herself 
and the player on the left. Then he or 
she must attempt to hurl the token at 
least as far as the ruler, while the other 
player must attempt to catch it. Should 
the ‘catcher’ succeed, or should the 
‘hurler’ fail to hurl the token further than 
the ruler, the catcher scores 5 points. 
However, should the token be hurled far 
enough but the catcher fail to catch it, 
or only touch it, the hurler scores 5 
 
Cathar tile 
From a Spielbox mini-
expansion (RGG’s siege tiles 
function in almost the same 
way). When a tile containing 
a Cathar symbol is connected to a city, 
the city becomes besieged. 
 
cathedral 
From Inns and Cathedrals. A 
city containing a cathedral 
scores 3 points for every tile 
and pennant when it is 
completed (instead of the 
usual 2). However, if it remains 
incomplete at the end of the game, the 
city scores 0 points. 
 
cathedral quarter 
to cloisters, abbeys and shrines as they 
are being scored. 
 

CC 
See CarcassonneCentral. 
 
challenge 
When a shrine and cloister (or abbey) 
are placed next to each other 
(horizontally, vertically, or diagonally) 
and both are occupied by followers, they 
enter into a challenge. The first to 
complete the feature scores 9 points; 
the other scores 0. 
 
city 
One of the four basic types of 
features. A follower deployed 
to a city is called a knight. 
When a city is completed, 
every tile and pennant scores 
2 points. At the end of the game, every 
incomplete city scores 1 point for every 
tile and pennant. 
 
City of Carcassonne 
The City of Carcassonne is contained in 
The Count of Carcassonne, and is an 
alternative opening structure. Whenever 
a player places the tile which completes 
a feature and scores 0 points, he or she 
may move a follower to one of the four 
city quarters (blacksmith, cathedral, 
market, castle), and move the Count to 
a new quarter. Whenever a feature is 
scored, followers may be moved from 
the corresponding quarter to take part in 
the scoring—as long as the Count is not 
currently resident in that quarter. 
 
claim 
When a tunnel token is placed beside a 
tunnel portal, that portal is said to be 
claimed. Once claimed, no other token 
may be placed beside the same portal. 
When the second token of the same 
colour claims another portal, the tunnel 
between them is finished, and the road 
leading into each becomes unbroken. 
 
cloister 
One of the four basic types 
of features. A follower 
deployed to a cloister is 
called a monk. When the 
eight adjacent tiles 
(horizontal, vertical, and diagonal) have 
been placed the cloister is complete and 
scores 9 points. At the end of the game, 
an incomplete cloister scores 1 point for 
every neighbouring tile (including the 
cloister itself). A cloister may challenge 
or be challenged by a shrine. 
 
cloth 
Included in Traders and 
Builders, cloth is one of the 
three types of trade goods. 
There are five corresponding 
tokens. 
 
club 
thieves in play. 
 
Complete Annotated Rules 
The title of this document. Often 
abbreviated to CAR. 
 
completed 
A feature is said to be complete when it 
can no longer be extended. It is then 
scored immediately, and may not be re-
occupied at any point. 
 
connected 
The wagon may move to any 
neighbouring feature which is 
‘connected’ by a road. It does not have 
to be in an immediately adjacent tile. 
 
 

Count, the 
From The Count of Carcassonne, 
the Count resides in a quarter of 
the City of Carcassonne and 
prevents any followers currently 
deployed there from being used 
in scoring a feature. The Count may be 
moved to a new quarter when a player 
deploys a new follower to the City. 
 
counting follower 
The follower that is moved around the 
scoreboard. Never a particularly 
interesting follower until the introduction 
of The Dispatches and The Robbers 
mini-expansions. 
 
crop circle 
From the expansion of the same name. 
When a tile with a crop circle is placed, 
the player completes their turn as usual, 
then chooses whether A) all players 
may deploy a new follower next to one 
already in play, or B) must remove a 
follower from play. The type of follower 
affected is determined by the type of 
crop circle (pitchfork, club or shield); if 
the player does not have one of the 
affected followers in play, they may do 
not have to do anything. 
 
crossing 
The end of a road. All junctions—
crossroads, T-junctions, and so on—are 
crossings. 
 
crown space 
An area around the rim of 
the Wheel of Fate to 
which followers my be 
deployed. If there is only one space in a 
sector, a follower on it scores 3 points. 
If there are two spaces in a sector but 
only one is occupied, the follower scores 
6 points; if both spaces are occupied, 
each follower scores 3 points. 
 
cult place 
A cult place functions in the 
same way as a cloister. A 
follower deployed to a cult 
place is called a heretic. A cult 
place may challenge or be 
challenged by a cloister or an 
abbey. 
 
dead end 
A dead end is reached when the dragon 
cannot complete its movement phase. 
The dragon may not move onto the 
same tile twice in a turn, may not move 
onto a tile occupied by the fairy or one 
of the twelve tiles of the City of 
Carcassonne. And, unlike capture by 
towers, the dragon may not ‘jump’ over 
gaps in the playing field. 
 
dependent 
Both the builder and the pig are special 
figures and require a ‘full’ follower for 
deployment. The builder, for example, 
can only be deployed to a road or city 
which is already occupied by follower 
belonging to the same player. Should 
that follower be removed for any 
reason—such as being eaten by the 
dragon—the builder must also be 
removed. 
 
deployment 
Moving a follower from the the supply to 
occupy a feature. Also called ‘moving the 
wood’. 
 
depreciated 
An FAQ which is no longer valid, 
according to the latest rules, usually 
because the rules have changed. 
 
 
 

double turn 
A double turn occurs when a player 
places a tile which extends a road or city 
occupied by the player’s builder. After 
deploying and scoring this tile, the 
player is then permitted to take a 
second tile, then place it, deploy to it, 
and score it as usual. The term ‘double-
turn’ is slightly unfortunate, as the turn 
is nevertheless a ‘single’ turn: any game 
mechanic which occurs once per turn—
such as the fairy turn bonus—still only 
occurs once in a double turn. Any 
mechanic which is triggered by drawing, 
placing, deploying or scoring a tile—such 
as moving a follower to a quarter of the 
City of Carcassonne—may occur twice in 
a double-turn. 
 
dragon 
Whenever a volcano tile is 
placed, the dragon is moved 
to it immediately. Whenever a 
tile with a dragon symbol is placed 
the dragon moves—according to HiG, 
this movement occurs after deployment 
but before scoring, while the RGG rules 
state that the dragon moves after 
scoring. The dragon moves 6 tiles either 
horizontally or vertically, each player 
taking it in turns to move the dragon 
one tile at a time. If the dragon moves 
onto a tile occupied by a follower, 
builder or pig, the figure is ‘eaten’ and 
returned to its owner, along with any 
dependent figures (such a builder or 
pig). The dragon may not move onto the 
same tile twice in a turn, nor a tile 
occupied by the fairy or one of the 
twelve tiles of the City of Carcassonne. 
If the dragon is unable to continue 
moving according to the rules above, it 
has reached a dead end and its current 
movement phase is over. 
 
 
 
eradicate 
The infestation on a tile may be 
eradicated in the following ways. 
 running out of flea tokens in the 
supply, in which case the Outbreak tile 
with the lowest number is eradicated. 
 by there being no inactive flea tiles in 
play which could be moved to a 
Plague region; again, the lowest 
numbered Outbreak tile is eradicated. 
 two or more Plague regions merging; 
in which case all except the highest 
numbered Outbreak tile are 
eradicated. 
 all 18 flea tokens belonging to a single 
Plague region; when a new source tile 
is drawn and placed in an 
unconnected position, the old 
Outbreak token is eradicated. 
An eradicated plague is indicated by the 
Outbreak tile being turned onto its ‘field’ 
side; from at point until the end of the 
game, the source tile is secure from the 
plague. 
 
escape 
At the end of a player’s turn, a follower 
in a besieged city may escape via a 
nearby cloister, abbey or shrine and be 
returned to its owner, if it fulfils certain 
conditions. In The Cathars, a cloister 
(etc.) must be directly adjacent to a 
Cathar tile to allow a follower to escape; 
whereas RGG’s rules for siege tiles say 
that a cloister must be adjacent to any 
tile of a besieged city. 
 
 
 

exchange 
If two players have taken each other’s 
followers prisoner they may exchange 
them. Should one player have have 
several prisoners belonging to the other 
player, then the owner may decide 
which of his or her followers to receive 
in exchange. Such an exchange occurs 
automatically, the moment both players 
have a prisoner belonging to the other. 
 
expansion 
There are two types of expansions for 
Carcassonne: major expansions and 
mini-expansions. 
 
fair 
A tile from The Catapult. 
Placing a fair tile triggers a 
catapult round which takes 
place immediately after 
scoring any feature. 
fairy 
Instead of deploying a follower, a 
special figure or a tower piece, a 
player may choose to move the fairy 
next to one of his or her followers 
already in play. This follower—and all 
others on the tile—is now protected 
from the dragon. At the start of any turn 
in which the fairy is stood next to a 
follower of the player, the player scores 
1 point (the fairy turn bonus). If the 
fairy is stood next to a follower in a 
feature which is being scored, the player 
scores 3 points (the fairy scoring bonus). 
If the follower is removed for any 
reason, the fairy remains where it is. 
 
fairy scoring bonus 
If the fairy stands next to a follower in a 
feature which is being scored, the player 
scores 3 points. 
 
fairy turn bonus 
At the start of any turn in which the fairy 
stands next to a follower of the player, 
the player scores 1 point. 
 
famine 
sector, every player receives points for 
farmers, as follows: every farmer scores 
1 point for every completed city on the 
 
farm 
A set of connected field 
segments. A follower 
deployed to a farm is called 
a farmer. During final 
scoring, every completed 
city on a farm scores 3 points. 
 
farmer 
A follower deployed to a farm is called a 
farmer, and should be laid on its back. 
 
feature 
Any aspect of a landscape tile that 
triggers an action or a function. This 
may be a structure upon which a 
follower can be placed, such as cities, 
cloisters, farms and roads. Other 
features include fairs, bazaars, and 
volcanoes. 
 
ferry 
A wooden piece that can be used to 
connect two road segments over a lake 
in The Ferries mini-expansion. 

festival 
When a tile with a festival 
symbol is drawn, the 
player may choose to 
either deploy a follower, 
return a follower from the playing area 
to his or her supply, or neither or the 
above. Captured followers cannot be 
returned in this way. 
 
field 
One of the four basic types of features. 
Connected field segmens make up a 
 
final scoring 
When the last tile has been taken from 
the stack, bag or tile dispenser, the 
game enters final scoring (note that a 
player may still have an abbey tile left—
this may not be played after the last 
land tile has been drawn, unless the last 
land tile is triggers a double turn). 
During final scoring, all incomplete 
features are scored, along with farms, 
and any special bonuses from trade 
goods, the King or Robber Baron. 
 
flea 
A flea token indicates that 
the plague has spread to a 
tile; all followers on it are 
then removed. Flea tokens 
must be placed adjacent (horizontal and 
vertical) to a plague source tile or 
another tile with an active flea token. 
One flea token must be placed per turn 
(the active player decides when), and 
must be moved from the supply or 
(when the supply is empty) an inactive 
epidemic region. 
 
flight (flee) 
Once a turn, a player may allow one of 
their followers to take flight from the 
plague. The follower my flee to any 
segment of the structure it is currently 
occupying, regardless of the distance, 
but cannot cross roads, junctions, gaps 
in the playing field or tiles with flea 
tokens. Monks cannot take flight from 
cloisters. 
 
follower (1) 
Used to refer to the standard 
follower included in the basic 
game. 
 
follower (2) 
Only normal and big followers, the 
mayor, the wagon, and the phantom are 
currently considered to be followers. 
 
fork 
A tile from The River II which 
the starting player should 
place immediately after the 
spring tile. Subsequent river 
tiles may be placed on either branch. 
 
fortune 
sector, the player whose turn it is scores 
3 points immediately. 
 
Game of the Year 
A prestigious German award for board 
games. Carcassonne won in 2001. Often 
abbreviated to GotY. 
 
goldmine 
A symbol found in The Goldmines mini-
expansion that allows placement of a 
gold piece onto that tile and an adjacent 
 
 
 

gold pieces 
Wooden tokens found in 
The Goldmines mini-
expansion which are 
collected by players and scored at the 
end of the game. The more gold pieces 
collected, the more each is worth. 
 
GotY 
See Game of the Year. 
 
grain 
Included in Traders and 
Builders, grain is one of the 
three types of trade goods. 
There are six corresponding tokens. 
 
Hans im Glück 
The original publishers of Carcassonne. 
Often abbreviated to HiG. 
 
heretic 
A follower deployed to a shrine is called 
a heretic. 
 
See Hans im Glück. 
 
hole 
A gap in the playing field; usually space 
for a single tile. 
 
house rule 
Any unofficial rule used in the game. 
 
house (1) 
Be careful to distinguish 
between houses and inns. 
An inn—offering a bonus to 
road-building—is always to 
be found next to a small 
lake. In the example shown, the road 
ends at a house, and no bonus is 
awarded. 
 
house (2) 
hurl 
In The Catapult, tokens are hurled by 
the catapult. 
 
inactive 
In The Plague, fleas, Outbreaks and 
epidemics can be inactive or latent. 
Fleas and Outbreak tokens should be 
turned over to become inactive. An 
epidemic is inactive when the fleas (and 
possibly the Outbreak) in its region are 
inactive. 
An inactive flea can be moved to 
another tile to become active again. 
When an Outbreak is eradicated it 
becomes inactive, as do all adjacent / 
connected fleas, and by extension the 
 
incomplete 
Incomplete features may still be 
occupied during the game, and are only 
scored during the final scoring. 
 
incorporated 
An FAQ which is still true, but no longer 
relevant, usually because the point it 
clarifies has been included in a later 
version of the rules. 
 
inn 
First seen in Inns and 
Cathedrals. An inn is always to 
be found beside a small lake, 
distinguishing it from a mere house. A 
road with an inn on it scores 2 points for 
each segment when it is completed. 
However, if the road remains incomplete 
at the end of the game, it scores 0 
 
inquisition 
One of the sectors of the Wheel of Fate. 
If the big pig lands on this sector, all 
players score 2 points for each of their 
monks. 
 

King, the 
The King tile is awarded to the 
player who completed the 
largest city—that is, the city 
covering the most tiles, not the 
city with the highest score. During the 
final scoring, this player then scores 1 
point for every completed city on the 
playing field. 
 
Klaus‐Jürgen Wrede 
The author of Carcassonne. 
 
knight 
A follower deployed to a city. 
 
knock out 
Catapult. Players must aim 
to to hit, if possible, other 
players’ followers on the playing field. 
Any followers being hit by this token—
regardless of whether they are knocked 
over—are removed and returned to their 
owners. 
 
lake (1) 
The river—or each of its 
branches—always ends in a 
lake. In The River II, the lake 
tile with the volcano should 
be placed last; if the dragon 
is being used, it should be moved to the 
volcano, and the player may take 
another tile. 
 
lake (2) 
A body of water at the edge of 3 or 4 
road segments upon which a ferry piece 
can be placed in The Ferries mini-
expansion. 
 
largest city 
For the purposes of the King, the city 
covering the most tiles, not the city with 
the highest score. 
 
le sac 
First seen 2002 , le sac is a large bag for 
Carcassonne. It is still available directly 
from Hans im Glück. 
 
little building 
A marker shaped as a tower, house, or 
shed which scores additional points for 
completed features that include that tile. 
 
longest road 
For the purposes of the Robber Baron, 
the road covering the most tiles, not the 
road with the highest score. 
 
Mage 
A neutral figure in the Mage and Witch 
mini-expansion that increases the value 
of the city or road upon which he has 
been placed. 
 
magic portal 
On placing a tile with a magic 
portal, the player may choose to 
deploy a follower to any tile in 
play, according to the usual rules—that 
is, not to a completed or occupied 
feature. 
 
major expansion 
A numbered expansion, usually 
containing some 20-30 tiles. 
 
majority 
If two or more players occupy the same 
feature as it is being scored, then the 
majority must be calculated. Each 
involved player counts the number of 
followers, taking account of their relative 
strength; the player with the most 
scores all the points for the feature, 
while the others score 0. In the case of 
a tie, all tied players score the full points 
available. 
 

market quarter 
to farms as they are being scored. 
 
mayor 
Mayors may only be deployed to 
cities, where they count as a single 
follower. However, when 
calculating the majority in any 
scoring, the strength of a mayor is 
the same as the number of pennants in 
the city. 
 
meeple 
A popular neologism, possibly derived 
from ‘my people’. Commonly used to 
describe the playing figures of 
Carcassonne taken as a whole. 
 
mega‐Carcassonne 
A game of Carcassonne which uses as 
many expansions as possible. 
 
mini‐expansion 
A smaller expansion, sometimes given 
away for free or along with magazines, 
and usually featuring no more than a 
dozen new tiles. 
 
monk 
A follower deployed to a cloister is called 
a monk. 
 
moving the wood 
Another term for the deployment phase 
of play. 
 
neighboring feature 
For the purposes of the wagon, a 
neighboring feature is an incomplete and 
unoccupied feature connected by a road. 
It does not have to be in an immediately 
adjacent tile. 
 
neutral figure 
A figure which may be used by anyone. 
occupied 
A feature is said to be occupied if at 
least one follower stands in or on it. New 
followers may not be deployed to an 
occupied feature, only connected 
indirectly; thus several followers of 
several players may ultimately occupy a 
feature. However, followers from the 
City of Carcassonne may be moved to an 
occupied feature during scoring. 
 
open junction 
A kind of road junction, first seen 
in Abbey and Mayor, in which 
there is no actual crossing. In the 
example shown, the road must be 
completed in all three directions. 
 
outbreak 
A token which is placed on a 
plague source tile. The token 
with the lowest number is 
always brought into play and 
subsequently eradicated first. Tiles 
adjacent to a source tile with an active 
infestation may have the plague spread 
to them via flea tokens; should the 
infestation be eradicated, the source tile 
becomes safe from the plague until the 
end of the game. 
 
parachuting 
Popular term for the act of moving 
followers from the City of Carcassonne 
to a feature being scored. 
 
pennant 
A small shield on a city tile, which 
effectively doubles the score of 
the tile when the city is scored, 
and determines the strength of 
the mayor. The tile shown has 
two pennants, so triples the score of 
that tile. 
 
 
 

phantom 
A transparent follower which can 
be deployed as usual, or in 
addition to a normal figure. In 
this case, it must be deployed to 
a different segment of the same tile. 
 
pig 
A special figure which is dependent 
on a farmer for placement. A pig 
may only be deployed to a farm 
occupied by the player. When the farm 
is scored, every city on it scores 4 points 
instead of the usual three. 
 
pig‐herd 
A tile first seen in The River II, 
the pig-herd is effectively a 
neutral pig which adds a bonus 
point to the value of any 
completed city on the farm 
during scoring. This bonus is 
independent of the normal pig: in other 
words, the presence of either a pig or a 
pig-herd scores 4 points per city, while 
the presence of both means a score of 5 
points per city. However, the pig-herd 
does not offer a bonus in conjunction 
with a barn. 
 
pitchfork 
farmers in play. 
 
placement 
Used to described the act of adding a 
tile to the playing field. 
 
plague region 
The entire area covered by an active 
Outbreak and adjacent flea tokens. 
When several epidemic regions merge, 
all infestation tokens except the one 
with the highest number have the 
plague on them eradicated. 
 
plague source 
A tile containing a plague 
doctor symbol, on which 
infestation tokens must be 
placed. When using The 
Plague, the first 18 tiles (17 + the 
starting tile) should be separated out 
and the plague source tiles mixed with 
the remainder. When the plague is 
eradicated on the tile, it becomes secure 
from the plague until the end of the 
game. 
 
pestilence / plague 
sector, every player must remove one 
follower from play, starting with the 
player whose turn it is, and moving 
clockwise around the group. 
 
playing field 
All of the tiles in play, taken as a whole. 
The playing field may stretch to the 
edge of a table, but no further. 
 
Porxada, La 
A single-tile, semi-official expansion 
depicting the named feature. The tile 
can allow for a swapping of followers or 
a change in scoring of incomplete cities 
at the end of the game. 
 
princess 
When a tile with a princess is 
added to a city, the player placing 
the tile may select a single 
occupying follower and return it—
along with any dependent special 
figures—to its owner’s supply. The 
player placing the tile may then not 
deploy a follower. 
 

prisoner 
A follower captured by a tower is a 
prisoner, and may be exchanged or 
ransomed by its owner. 
 
protection 
Any figure on the same tile as the fairy 
is protected from the dragon. 
 
ransom 
A follower which has been taken 
prisoner may be ransomed back by its 
owner for 3 points. Should a player have 
several prisoners belonging to the other 
player, then the owner may decide 
which of his or her followers to ransom. 
Only one prisoner may be ransomed 
from one player per turn. 
 
re‐deployment 
A follower is re-deployed when it is 
moved from the City of Carcassonne into 
another feature during scoring. 
 
See Rio Grande Games. 
 
Rio Grande Games 
The American publisher of Carcassonne. 
Often abbreviated to RGG. 
 
river 
The river is an alternative 
starting feature. It should be 
placed in its entirety before 
any normal tiles are drawn. 
Followers may be deployed to 
the tiles, although not to the 
river segments themselves. 
 
road 
One of the four basic types of 
features. A follower deployed to 
a road is called a thief. A 
completed road scores 1 point 
for each tile on which it is 
visible; during final scoring, incomplete 
roads also score 1 point per tile. 
 
robber 
A special follower found in The Robbers 
mini-expansion that can only be 
deployed to the scoreboard. The robber 
is placed beside an opponent’s counting 
follower, and the robber will score points 
when that counting follower is moved. 
 
Robber Baron, the 
The Robber Baron tile is 
awarded to the player who 
completed the longest road—
that is, the road covering the 
most tiles, not the road with the highest 
score. During the final scoring, this 
player then scores 1 point for every 
completed road on the playing field. 
 
ruler 
Included in The Catapult, the ruler may 
be used for resolving disputes about 
how far hurled tokens lie from their 
target. 
 
school 
An alternate starting feature made of 2 
tiles and acting as a starting point for 
the teacher figure. 
 
scoreboard 
The standard Carcassonne scoreboard 
contains 50 segments in a looped track. 
Once the starting segment has been 
passed, the player may take an 
additional scoring token. 
 
sector 
One of the six divisions of the Wheel of 
Fortune: fortune, tax, famine, storm, 
inquisition, and plague. When the big 
pig lands on a sector, a corresponding 
event occurs, and any followers stood on 
crown plinths in that sector are scored. 
 
 

seduction 
A mini-game in The Catapult. 
The token is hurled, and should 
it land on the playing field, the 
closest follower must be 
identified, using the ruler if necessary. 
The player hurling the token may then 
choose to swap this follower for one of 
his or her own (either from the supply or 
one that is already in play). The other 
follower is returned to its owner. 
 
segment 
A segment is a section of a feature on a 
 
shed 
 
shield 
knights in play. 
 
shrine 
A shrine functions in the same 
way as a cloister. A follower 
deployed to a shrine is called a 
heretic. A shrine may 
challenge or be challenged by a cloister 
or an abbey. 
 
siege 
RGG’s solution to copyright 
issues, siege tiles function in 
almost the same way as 
Cathar tiles. 
 
small city 
For the purpose of Bridges, Castles and 
Bazaars, a small city is one which 
consists of two semi-circular segments, 
which when created may be converted 
to a castle. It must have this (American) 
football shape to be converted. 
 
small city rule 
A depreciated rule, in which small cities 
of only two tiles / segments would score 
only 2 points. 
 
special figure 
Figures which belong to a player (and 
are therefore not neutral) but are 
deployed according to different rules 
and have special functions. Some, such 
as builders and pigs, are dependent on 
followers for deployment. 
 
Spielbox 
A popular German magazine for board-
games. 
 
spring 
The starting tile of the river. 
 
stack 
If the bag or tile dispenser are not in 
use, the tiles should be placed face-
down in small stacks at the side of the 
playing field. 
 
starting player 
According to the The River II, the 
youngest player begins the game by 
placing the fork. According to the HiG 
rules for the basic game, the youngest 
player decides who will begin. According 
to the latest RGG rules, the players 
decide among themselves who will be 
the starting player, using any method 
they choose. It’s up to you. 
 
 
 

starting tile 
The tile with the dark back in 
the basic game. If other starting 
expansions are used, it might 
either be mixed in with the 
other tiles or discarded. 
According to the latest version of The 
River II, The Count of Carcassonne, and 
Wind Roses, the starting tile should be 
discarded. The rules for The River, on 
the other hand, say that you could 
discard it or mix it in. Again, it’s up to 
you. 
 
storm 
sector, every player scores 1 point for 
every follower which is still in their 
supply (that is, not in play). 
 
storey 
The number of tower pieces in a tower, 
determining its range. A tower of four 
stories can capture followers up to four 
tiles away, horizontally or vertically. 
 
strength 
The value of a follower for calculating a 
majority during scoring. Pigs and 
builders have a strength of zero 
(meaning they do not count towards the 
majority at all). Normal followers and 
wagons have a strength of 1; big 
followers have a strength of two; and 
mayors have a strength equal to the 
number of pennants in the city they 
occupy. 
 
supply 
The playing figures and special tiles, 
such as the abbey, which a player does 
not currently have in play at the 
moment. 
 
target hurling 
Catapult. Players must 
try to hit the fête tile 
which triggered the 
current catapult round. 
Whoever hurls the token closest to the 
fair tile scores 5 points immediately. 
 
tax 
sector, all players immediately score 
points for any knights in cities, as 
follows: Each knight scores 1 point for 
every pennant and every knight 
belonging to the player in that city. 
 
teacher 
A neutral figure which is part of The 
School expansion. A player with 
possession of the teacher will score 
additional points with the next feature 
 
thief 
A follower deployed to a road. 
 
tie 
Should a tie occur when calculating the 
majority in a feature being scored, all 
tied players score the full points 
available. 
 
tile 
A playing piece containing segments of 
features. Tiles should be placed in 
stacks, the bag, or the tile dispenser. 
 
tile dispenser 
Included in The Tower, the tile dispenser 
permits tiles to be stacked neatly, and 
also allows for a shorter game by only 
using the tiles from one side. It should 
be used instead of stacks or the bag. 
 

tower 
 
tower construction 
Any player may take a tower piece from 
his or her supply and place it on any 
tower foundation on the playing field. 
Towers belong to no one, and may 
continue to be constructed until a player 
deploys a follower on top of it. 
 
tower foundation 
The base of a tower. Tower 
pieces may be placed on top of 
the foundations in order to 
begin the construction of a 
tower. Like towers themselves, 
foundations are neutral and do not 
belong to any player. 
 
tower piece 
The building blocks of a tower. At 
the beginning of the game, each 
player receives a given number of 
tower pieces, determined by the total 
number of players in the game. These 
pieces may then be placed on any 
foundation, or any tower already under 
construction. 
 
trade goods 
There are there types of trade goods: 
cloth, grain and wine. Tokens for trade 
goods are awarded to the player who 
places the tile which completes a city 
containing their symbols, regardless of 
whether the player is otherwise involved 
in scoring. At the end of the game, the 
player with the majority in a trade good 
receives 10 points. 
 
tunnel 
A tunnel consists of two portals, 
and is finished when both are 
claimed by two tunnel tokens of 
the same colour. Until then, the 
roads leading into the tunnel 
portals are considered to be incomplete. 
In the example here, there are two 
unconnected portals; the road does not 
(yet) lead beneath the city. 
However, this is only true when using 
The Tunnel expansion. When that is not 
in play, a tunnel is an unbroken road 
that leads under another feature, such 
as a city. In the example shown, there is 
one continuous road and two farm 
 
tunnel opening 
The point at which a road leads 
underground. A tunnel opening may be 
claimed by a single tunnel token; when 
another opening is claimed by the 
second token of the same colour, a 
tunnel is finished and leads between the 
openings. 
 
tunnel token 
There are six pairs of coloured 
tunnel tokens included in the 
expansion of the same name. 
They are used to claim tunnel 
portals. 
 
turn 
The turn of a player consists of at least 
three basic components: placement, 
deployment, and scoring. However, 
some game mechanics may occur 
outside of this structure, such as at the 
start of the turn (fairy turn bonus), at 
the end of the turn (dragon movement 
according to RGG), or during the turn 
(ransoming prisoners). 
 
u‐turn 
A configuration of the river in which it 
doubles back upon itself. Strictly 
speaking, only immediate u-turns are 
banned, although all u-turns may lead to 
subsequent problems with the 
placement of tiles. 

underground 
A tunnel allows a road to lead 
underground. When scoring the road, 
however, only the visible segments are 
 
unoccupied 
A feature is unoccupied if it contains no 
follower of any player. Followers may 
only be deployed directly to unoccupied 
features. 
 
unplayable 
If a tile cannot be placed anywhere on 
the playing field, it should be removed 
from play and the player should draw 
another. 
 
vanilla Carcassonne 
Another name for the basic game. 
 
visible 
Only visible segments of roads are 
scored; an underground stretch of road 
leading through a tunnel is not. 
 
volcano 
Whenever a tile with a volcano is 
placed, the dragon should be 
moved to that tile immediately. 
The player may not then deploy a 
follower, builder or pig to the tile, but 
may, for example, move the fairy or 
place a tower piece. 
 
wagon 
The wagon may only be deployed 
to unoccupied cities, roads and 
cloisters. During scoring it has a 
strength of one and thus contributes to 
the majority. After scoring, however, 
rather than being returned to the 
player’s supply, it may be moved to an 
unoccupied neighbouring feature. 
 
watermark 
Recent releases of both the basic game 
and its expansions have featured small 
icons—watermarks—on the tiles. These 
make no difference to the game-play, 
but may make it easier to sort out the 
tiles at the end of the game. 
 
Wheel of Fortune, the 
From the expansion of the same name, 
the Wheel of Fate is a 4x4 replacement 
for the starting tile. It is divided into six 
sectors: fortune, taxes, famine, stormy 
weather, inquisition, and pestilence. 
Each sector triggers an event when the 
big pig lands on it. Around the rim of the 
wheel are crown plinths to which 
followers may be deployed. 
 
wind rose 
A symbol on tiles from the mini-
expansion of the same name that score 
points when the tile is placed in the 
appropriate quadrant of the playing 
field. The Wind Roses expansion also 
includes a new starting tile. 
 
wine 
Included in Traders and Builders, 
wine is one of the three types of 
trade goods. There are nine 
corresponding tokens. 
 
A neutral figure fom the Mage and Witch 
mini-expansion which decreases the 
value of the city or road upon which she 
has been placed. 
 
woman follower 
A second follower used on the 
scoreboard in The Dispatches mini-
expansion. She counts the same as the 
standard counting follower; if either one 
lands on a dark space, the active player 
can draw a dispatch tile. 
 

Z‐Man Games 
The current English publisher of 
Carcassonne. 
 
See Z-Man Games. 
 
 
 

German/English Dictionary 
by kettlefish, and initially found at the Carcassonne-Forum 
 
Explanations 
 
The increasing complexity of Carcassonne and the increasing number of publishers, 
publications, and translations has led to a number of different terms used for concepts 
found in the game. Thus: the German/English Dictionary for the world of the game of 
Carcassonne. This is not a typical A-Z dictionary, but is instead a thematic dictionary. 
 
Example: 
Goldstück - gold piece (CAR) / gold ingot (ZMG) 
 
Goldstück - this is the German word in bold 
 
gold piece (CAR) / gold ingot (ZMG) - the English word (where the translation is found) 
 
CAR: The Complete Annotated Rules 
RGG: Rio Grande Games 
ZMG: Z-Man Games 
HiG: Hans-im-Glück Verlag 
 
Die Figuren - the figures (RGG+CAR) / the pawns (ZMG) 
 
Gefolgsleute - followers 
1.0 Gefolgsmann - follower 
2.0 Großer Gefolgsmann - big follower (CAR) / large follower (RGG+ZMG) 
3.0 Wagen - wagon 
4.0 Bürgermeister - mayor 
5.0 Phantom - phantom 
 
Sonderfiguren - special figures (RGG+CAR) / special pawns (ZMG) 
1.0 Schwein - pig 
2.0 Baumeister - builder 
3.0 Gutshof - barn 
 
Zählstein - scoring marker (CAR+RGG) / score marker (ZMG) 
1.0 Zählfigur (Wertungsfigur) - scoring (counting) figure (CAR) 
1.1 Gefolgsmann - follower (CAR) / marker (ZMG) 
1.2 Gefolgsfrau - woman follower (CAR) / messenger (ZMG) / follower (RGG) 
2.0 Andere Figur auf Wertungstafel - other figure on the scoring board 
2.1 Räuber - robber 
 
 
 

neutrale Figuren... - neutral figures... (RGG+CAR) / neutral pawns... (ZMG) 
1.0 Fee und Drache - fairy and dragon 
1.1 Fee - fairy 
1.2 Drache - dragon 
2.0 Magische Figuren - magical figures (RGG) / magic pawns (ZMG) 
2.1 Magier - mage 
2.2 Hexe - witch 
3.0 zum bauen von... - to build a... 
3.1 Brücke - bridge 
3.2 Turmteil - tower part (RGG) / tower piece (CAR+RGG) / tower floor, floor (ZMG) 
4.0 auf Spezialgebiete wie Startkarten - at special features like starting tiles 
4.1 Lehrer - teacher 
4.2 Graf - count 
4.3 Schwein (Schicksalsrad) - pig (wheel of fortune) 
 
Material - components (ZMG) 
1.0 Fähre - ferry 
2.0 Würfel - die 
3.0 Goldstück - gold piece (CAR) / gold ingot (ZMG) / gold bars (RGG) 
 
Sonstiges - anything else 
 
Sonstiges Material - other materials 
1.0 Wertungstafel - scoreboard (CAR+ZMG) / scoring track (RGG) 
2.0 Katapult aus Holz - wooden catapult 
3.0 Messlatte - ruler 
4.0 Turm als Kartenspender - tile tower to hold the tiles (RGG) / tile tower (ZMG) 
 
Sonstige Karten - other tiles 
1.0 Punktekarte - point card (RGG) / point marker (RGG) / point tile (CAR) 
2.0 König - king 
3.0 Raubritter - robber baron 
4.0 Depesche - message (RGG+ZMG+CAR) / dispatch (CAR) 
4.1 Siegel - seal (CAR) / lower (ZMG) 
 
Plättchen - tokens 
 
Warenplättchen - trade good tokens (RGG) / trade counters (CAR) / goods tokens 
(ZMG) 
1.0 Wein - wine 
2.0 Korn - grain (CAR+RGG) / wheat (ZMG) 
3.0 Tuch - cloth (CAR+RGG) / fabric (ZMG) 
 
 
 

Katapult-Plättchen - catapult tokens 
1.0 Tortenschlacht - knock out 
1.1 Gefolgsleute treffen - remove followers 
2.0 Verführung - seduction 
2.1 Gefolgsleute austauschen - follower exchange 
3.0 Schützenfest - target hurling 
3.1 Jahrmarktskarte treffen - fair contest 
4.0 Fangen - catch 
4.1 einer schleudert, der nächste fängt - one hurls, the other catches 
 
Plättchen der Pest - tokens from the plague 
1.0 Floh-Chips - flea chips (Spielbox) / flea tokens (CAR) 
1.1 Flöhe - fleas (Spielbox) 
2.0 Pestherde - outbreaks (Spielbox) / outbreak tokens (CAR) 
2.1 Pestherd aktiv - active outbreak 
2.2 Pestherd gebannt - plague averted (Spielbox) / outbreak eradicated (CAR) 
 
Gebäudeplättchen - building tiles (CAR) 
1.0 Türme - towers 
2.0 Häuser - houses 
3.0 Schuppen - sheds 
 
Andere Plättchen - other tokens 
1.0 Tunnel-Chips - tunnel tokens (CAR) 
 
Gebiets-Plättchen - feature tokens 
1.0 Burg - castle 
 
Gefolgsmann - follower 
 
Die verschiedenen Rollen des Gefolgsmannes - The different roles of the follower 
1.0 Ritter - knight 
2.0 Wegelagerer - thief 
3.0 Bauer - farmer 
4.0 Mönch - monk 
5.0 Ketzer - heretic 
6.0 Gefangener - prisoner 
7.0 Flieger - flier (RGG) 
7.1 nicht HiG - not HiG 
 
 
 

Zugabfolge - turn sequence (RGG) / playing the game 
(ZMG): 
 
0.1 siehe Regeln Big Boxen - see Big Boxes' rules 
 
1.0 Landschaftskarte ziehen und anlegen - draw and place landscape tile (RGG) / 
place tiles and special pieces (ZMG) 
2.0 Holz bewegen - "move" wood (RGG) / place player pawns (ZMG) 
3.0 Werten - score (RGG) / scoring (ZMG) 
4.0 nach der Wertung - after the scoring (RGG) / after scoring (ZMG) 
 
Landschaftskarte - land tile (RGG+CAR) / landscape tile 
(RGG+CAR) 
 
1.0 Gebiete - features 
2.0 Landschaftskarten-Symbole mit speziellen Funktionen - landscape tiles 
symbols with special functions 
 
Landschaftskarten-Symbole mit speziellen 
Funktionen - landscape tiles symbols with special 
functions 
 
1.0 Warensymbol - trade symbol (CAR) / trade good symbol (RGG) 
2.0 Burgfräulein - princess 
3.0 Drache - dragon 
4.0 Katharer - Cathars 
5.0 Pestsymbol - plague symbol (Spielbox) / plague doctor symbol (CAR) 
 
 
Startkarten - starting tiles 
 
Startkarten ohne Figur - starting tiles without any figures 
1.0 Startkarte - starting tile 
2.0 Windrosen - wind roses 
 
Startkarten mit Figur - starting tiles with figure 
1.0 Stadt Carcassonne - City of Carcassonne 
2.0 Schicksalsrad - wheel of fortune 
3.0 Die Schule - the school 
 
 
 

Spezielle Startkarten - special starting tiles 
 
Stadt Carcassonne - City of Carcassonne 
1.0 Stadtviertel - city quarter 
1.1 Schloss - castle 
1.2 Markt - market 
1.3 Schmiede - blacksmith 
1.4 Kathedrale - cathedral 
 
Schicksalsrad - wheel of fortune 
1.0 Kronenfeld - crown space 
2.0 Segmente - segments 
2.1 Fortuna - fortune 
2.2 Steuern - tax 
2.3 Hungersnot - famine 
2.4 Unwetter - storm 
2.5 Inquisition - inquisition 
2.6 Pest - plague 
 
Die Schule - the school 
1.0 Startkarte - starting tile 
2.0 Landschaftskarten Schule - school landscape tiles 
 
Gebiet - feature 
 
0.1 Art und Funktion - type and function 
 
1.0 Gebiet wird mit Figur besetzt und erweitert bis zur Fertigstellung und 
Wertung - feature is occupied with figure / expanded until completion and scoring 
1.1 Stadt - city 
1.2 Straße - road 
1.3 Wiese - field (RGG+CAR) / farm (RGG+CAR) 
1.4 Kloster - cloister (CAR+RGG,RGG-mini2) / monastery (ZMG+RGG-mini1,4) 
1.5 Kultstätte - shrine (CAR 6.2 page75+Spielbox HiG-Almanach) / cult place (RGG+CAR 
6.2 page79) 
 
2.0 Gebiet wird mit Figur genutzt um zu einer anderen Karte mit Gebiet zu 
gelangen - feature is used with figure to get another tile with feature 
2.1 Zaubergang - magic portal 
2.2 Fluggerät - flying machine (ZMG) / aircraft symbol (CAR) / wing (RGG) 
 
3.0 Gebiet wird mit Figur besetzt und erweitert/abgeschlossen ohne Wertung 
- feature with figure occupied /expanded/completed without scoring 
3.1 Turmplatz - tower place (RGG) / tower foundation (ZMG+CAR) 
 

4.0 Gebiet ohne Figur, löst aber eine Funktion aus - feature without figure, but 
triggers a function 
4.1 Kornkreis - crop circle (ZMG+CAR) / corn circle (RGG) 
4.2 Jahrmarkt - fair 
4.3 Basar - bazaar 
 
5.0 Gebiet wird mit einer Figur besetzt, löst eine Funktion aus - feature with figure 
and triggers a function 
5.1 Vulkan - volcano 
 
6.0 Gebiet ohne Figur, ohne Funktion - feature without figure and function 
6.1 Fluss - river 
 
Gebiete im Detail - features details 
 
0.1 Art und Funktion im Detail - type and function in detail 
 
Gebiet wird mit Figur besetzt / erweitert bis Fertigstellung und Wertung 
- feature is occupied with figure / expanded until completion and scoring 
1.0 Stadt - city 
1.1 Stadtteil - city segment 
1.2 Wappen - pennant (CAR+RGG) / banner (ZMG+RGG-mini2+5) 
1.3 Kathedrale - cathedral 
2.0 Straße - road 
2.1 Straßenabschnitt - road segment 
2.2 Kreuzung - crossing 
2.3 Brücke - bridge 
2.4 Tunnel - tunnel 
2.5 Wirtshaus (Gasthaus) - inn 
3.0 Wiese - field (RGG+CAR) / farm (RGG+CAR) 
3.1 Wiesenstück - field segment (RGG+CAR) / farm segment (CAR) 
4.0 Kloster - cloister (CAR+RGG,RGG-mini2) / monastery (ZMG+RGG-mini1,4) 
4.1 Abtei - abbey 
5.0 Kultstätte - shrine (CAR 6.2 page75+Spielbox HiG-Almanach) / cult place (RGG+CAR 
6.2 page79) 
 
Gebiet wird mit Figur genutzt um zu einer anderen Karte mit Gebiet zu 
gelangen - feature is used with figure to get another tile with feature 
1.0 Zaubergang - magic portal 
2.0 Fluggerät - flying machine (ZMG) / aircraft symbol (CAR) / wing (RGG) 
 
Gebiet wird mit Figur besetzt/erweitert/abgeschlossen ohne Wertung - feature 
with figure occupied /expanded/completed without scoring 
1.0 Turmplatz - tower place (RGG) / tower foundation (ZMG+CAR) 
1.1 Turmbauplatz - tower building place (RGG) / tower foundation (ZMG+CAR) 
 

Gebiet ohne Figur, löst aber eine Funktion aus - feature without figure, but triggers 
a function 
1.0 Kornkreis - crop circle (ZMG+CAR) / corn circle (RGG) 
1.1 Mistgabel - pitchfork (CAR) / fork (ZMG) 
1.2 Keule - club 
1.3 Schild - shield 
2.0 Jahrmarkt - fair 
3.0 Basar – bazaar 
 
Gebiet mit einer Figur, löst eine Funktion aus - feature with figure and triggers a 
function 
1.0 Vulkan - volcano 
 
Gebiet ohne Figur und Funktion - feature without figure and function 
1.0 Fluss - river 
1.1 Quelle - spring 
1.2 See - lake 
1.3 Gabelung - branch 
1.4 Schweineherde - pig herd 
 
 

Farming: A Historical Perspective 
 
A brief history of scoring farmers 
 
The 1st edition rules were scored from the perspective of the cities themselves: that is, 
you picked a city, and counted the number of farmers on all the farms touching that city. 
The player with the majority of those farmers scored 4 points. Then play moved on to the 
next city. 
 
2nd edition rules followed almost immediately—after Carcassonne won Game of the Year 
(GotY), in fact. The original 1st edition farmer rules were considered to be too difficult by 
the jury and they were changed; although this led to calls for Carcassonne to be stripped 
of the award, since the game that won was not actually the game subsequently sold as 
the GotY. 
 
The 2nd edition rules changed to scoring farms from the perspective of the farms—pick a 
farm, count the farmers on it, and the player with the most farmers scores 3 points for 
every city touching the farm. But like 1st edition rules, each city could only be scored 
once, meaning you still had to keep track of which cities had scored 3 points and which 
not. 
 
3rd edition rules came swiftly and removed that qualification, so that each city could now 
be scored multiple times. The great virtue of the 3rd edition rules is that you don't have to 
keep track of which cities have been scored, only which farms—and since you should 
remove the farmers after a given farm has been scored, it isn't overly difficult to do so. 
Also, in the 1st edition rules, the farms weren't actually scored directly, but only indirectly, 
making the notion of 'farmer' scoring slightly misleading and difficult to grasp for younger 
players (this, essentially, was the jury's objection). 
 
But whereas 3rd edition rules have been used in Germany for nearly a decade, RGG 
initially chose to stick with the 1st edition rules. The usual arguments for this decision 
revolved around consistency (it would confuse people to change the rules) and 
authenticity (1st edition rules are the ones that won GotY, after all). 
 
Where does this document stand? 
 
Logically enough, since its basis is the original HiG rules—and since RGG has also 
abandoned 1st edition scoring—this document uses 3rd edition rules. Also, every single 
FAQ, and most expansions to the game, has 3rd edition rules in mind. To date, only two of 
the 15-odd expansions released have been authored by RGG, and neither involve new 
rules. So, for example, when the earlier RGG edition of Traders and Builders talks about 
the pig giving a bonus point and bringing the total to 5, that's an adaptation of the original 
German rules, in which the total is 4. Sticking to 1st edition rules meant that RGG needed 
to adapt every subsequent expansion to fit—so even if 1st edition rules are more 

'authentic' for the basic game, they become less 'authentic' the moment you add an 
expansion into the mix. 
 
None of this was really a problem—although it did generate heated discussion—so long as 
players were informed about the two possibilities and agreed on which to use... 
 
What changed? 
 
The release of the fifth major expansion—Abbey and Mayor—may well have been the 
decisive factor. It was nearly inevitable that at some point HiG would release an expansion 
which would simply be incompatible with 1st edition farmer scoring; and here we have an 
expansion that potentially simplifies farmer scoring at the end of the game if you're using 
3rd edition rules, but will easily double the complexity if you're still using 1st edition rules. 
I'll explain. 
 
This expansion features a barn—one for each player—which can only be placed at the 
intersection between four farm segments. Any farmers currently on that farm are 
immediately scored (3 points per adjacent city) and removed. Any farmers which, later in 
the game, join the farm through connecting tiles are also scored (1 point per adjacent city) 
and removed. At the end of the game, the barn scores 4 points per adjacent city. 
When I first read the German rules, I wondered how RGG would adapt them. Potentially, 
the farmer removal and scoring could go ahead according to the usual RGG rules, although 
it would be odd—after all, if only the farmers on one farm need to be removed, why 
should a city count all the other adjacent farms to produce a score? Possible, but weird. 
The real problem would come at the end, though—if you score farms from the 
perspectives of the cites, how would you judge the value or strength of the barn? Clearly, 
it trumps farmers—is it worth two of them? Does it over-rule farmers on other farms 
touching the city? Hmm. 
Well, the official RGG rules did something I didn't expect: they stuck precisely to the 
German rules. That is, the farmers being removed score 3 points (or 1 point) per adjacent 
city, and the barn scores 4 points per adjacent city at the end. The barn, in both HiG and 
RGG rules, uses 3rd edition scoring. 
But there is no indication anywhere in the rules that RGG farmer scoring in general should 
now follow 3rd edition rules. In other words, at the end of the game, it seems you're 
meant to calculate the two elements separately, using 1st edition for farmers and 3rd 
edition for barns. Twice as complicated, as I said. 
 
Compare that with the effect of the barn if you're using 3rd edition rules for everything: 
the mechanic is consistent, there should be fewer farmers in play (and so less counting) 
and fewer wars for the majority. The barn should actually simplify the game... 
This is all purely speculative, of course, but my feeling is that this was the catalyst behind 
RGG abandoning the 1st edition rules in favour of those of the 3rd edition. My advice to 
players has always been to move to 3rd edition rules anyway—they're simpler, and allow 
you to play the expansions as intended. And there's very little excuse not to change now 
that RGG have adopted 3rd edition scoring themselves. 
 

Carcassonne Collections and Expansions 
 
Hang on, where can I get that expansion? Was that in one of the Big Boxes? Here is an 
attempt to answer your questions. The following table includes a chronologic listing of all 
of the releases for Carcassonne, not including spin-offs. The English names of the releases 
are given for all releases actually available in English. 
 
2000 
River I (RGG before Oct ‘09, ZMG) 
Crop Circles I (some HiG) 
2001 
River I 
Inns & 
Cathedrals 
2002 
Traders & 
Builders 
King & Scout 
Limited 
River I 
Count of 
2004 
Die Katharer 
(The Cathars) 
2004 
The Cathars (Spielbox #5/2004) 
The Princess 
& the Dragon 
The Princess & the Dragon 
Der 
Almanach 
GQ #11 Mini 
Expansion 
Games Quarterly #11 Mini 
Expansion 
Abbey & 
Mayor 
Big Box 
River I (RGG edition) 

Count, King, 
& Robber 
(Graf, König, 
& Konsorten) 
Cult Places (Shrines – 5 tiles) 
Cult, Siege, & 
Creativity 
Sept 
Cult Places (6 tiles) 
Sieges 
Blank tiles 
Big Box 2 
Cult Places (Shrines – 5 tiles) 
Hans im Glück 
Almanac 
Cult Places (5 tiles) 
Wheel of 
Fortune 
2009 
July 
Wheel of Fortune 
Der Tunnel 
(The Tunnel) 
2009 
The Tunnel (Spielbox #6/2009) 
Bridges, 
Castles, & 
Bazaars 
Jan 
Big Box 3 
Die Kornkreise 
(Crop Circles) 
Die Pest (The 
Plague) 
The Plague (Spielbox #6/2010) 
La Porxada (Jugar X Jugar only) 
10th 
Anniversary 
Carcassonne 10th Anniversary 

Die Schule 
(The School) 
Winter Edition 
Dec 
Winter Edition (digital) 
#1 The Flier 
#2 The 
Messages 
The Messages 
#3 The 
Ferries 
#4 The 
Goldmines 
#5 Mage and 
#6 The 
Robbers 
Die 
Windrosen 
Wind Roses (Carc.-on-tour) 
(Spielbox #5/2013) 
Little 
Buildings 
Little Buildings (Spielbox 
#5/2012) 
Big Box 4 
2012 Minis #1-7 
Müller Special 
2013 
Count, King & Robber 
 
 
 

Expansion Checklist 
 
For all of you completionists, here is a list of all of the expansions available, without regard 
to the precise origin of the expansions (separate version vs. part of Big Box, etc.). Collect 
‘em all! 
 
 
The Princess & the Dragon 
Games Quarterly #11 
Mini Expansion 
Cult Places (Shrines & Heretics) 
Sieges 
Wheel of Fortune 
Winter Edition – digital 
The Flier (Mini 1) 

The Messages (Mini 2) 
The Ferries (Mini 3) 

The Goldmines (Mini 4) 
Mage and Witch (Mini 5) 
 
The Robbers (Mini 6) 
Crop Circles II (Mini 7) 
Little Buildings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Timeline of Releases 
 
 
 Carcassonne (2000) 
The River (2001) 
 
 Inns & Cathedrals (2002) 
Traders & Builders (2003) 
 
 King & Scout (2003) 
 
 Carcassonne: Limited Edition (2003) 
 
 The Count of Carcassonne (2004) 
 

 Die Katharer (The Cathars) (2004) 
 
 The Princess & the Dragon (2005) 
 
The River II (2005) 
 Der Carcassonne Almanach (2005) 
 
 The Tower (2006) 
 Games Quarterly #11 (2006) 
 

 Abbey & Mayor (2006) 
 
 Big Box (2006) 
 
 
 Count, King & Robber (2008, 2013) 
 
 Cult, Siege, & Creativity (2008) 
 
 The Catapult (2008) 

 
 Big Box 2 (2008) 
 
 Hans im Glück Almanac (2008) 
 
 Wheel of Fortune (2009) 
 
 Der Tunnel (The Tunnel) (2009) 
 

 Bridges, Castles, & Bazaars (2010) 
 
 Big Box 3 (2010) 
 
 Die Kornkreise (Crop Circles) (2010) 
 
 Die Pest (The Plague) (2010) 
 La Porxada (2010) 
 
 Carcassonne: 10th Anniversary Edition (2011) 
 

 The Phantom (2011) 
 Die Schule (The School) (2011) 
 
Carcassonne: Winter Edition (digital) (2011) 
 
 The Flier (2012) 
 The Messages (2012) 
 
 The Ferries (2012) 
 The Goldmines (2012) 
 
 Mage & Witch (2012) 
 The Robbers (2012) 
 
 Die Windrosen (Wind Roses) (2012) 
 

 Little Buildings (2012) 
 
 Big Box 4 (2012) 
 
 Müller Special Edition (2013) 
 
 Die Windrosen (Wind Roses) Spielbox Edition (2013)

Selected Variants 
Originally from the official home page at www.carcassonne.de 
 
Collective planning 
Three tiles are placed on one side, face-up. The players can then decide to take any one 
of the face-up tiles or one from the stack. If any of the face-up tiles are used, they are 
replaced at the end of the turn, so that there are always three to choose from. 
 
Cloisters for everyone! 
At the start of the game, every player receives a cloister and places it face-up in front of 
him or herself. This tile may be placed at any time during the game instead of drawing 
one from the stack. 
 
The architects 
The tiles are divided among the players, who may select any tile from these individual 
stacks for placement. It may be strategically useful to distribute the cloisters separately. 
 
Follower unpunctuality 
A player may not deploy a follower to the tile just placed, but only to one which has 
already been placed (according to the usual rules for deployment, of course). 
 
Fewer followers 
by Holger Peine 
The number of followers is determined in connection with the number of players: 
• two players: seven followers 
• three players: six followers 
• four players: five followers 
The attraction of this variation is that it encourages players to carefully consider whether a 
follower should really be deployed to a given tile. 
 
Prisoners 
If a follower “enters” an already occupied city via the placement of a connecting tile, the 
player who deployed the follower can opt for it to take captive one of the other followers 
in the feature. In this case, both followers are given to the player: his or her follower must 
be assigned to “guard duty.” However, the “guard” can be deployed to a tile at any time, 
at which point the prisoner is returned to its owner. 
 
 
 

The battle for completed cloisters 
by Frank Rudloff 
1. During his or her turn, every player has two tiles to choose from in his or her hand. 
2. During the final scoring, the score of every incomplete cloister is awarded to the 
opponent. In the case of more than two players, the player to the left receives the 
points, forcing the respective opponents to have different interests and strategies. 
 
This variation offers a player the opportunity to turn an opponent’s cloister advantage into 
an advantage for themselves, by trying to prevent the opponent from completing a 
cloister. 
 
A new lease on life 
Instead of deploying a follower, a player may choose to perform one of the following 
actions: 
 
1. Settling down: a thief belonging to the player may be moved to an unoccupied farm 
bordering the road. 
2. The call of the city: a farmer may be moved to an incomplete city bordering the farm. 
3. Religious war: two of the player’s knights may be moved to a cloister occupied by a 
monk of an opponent, and the monk returned to the supply. 
4. The highwayman: one of the player’s knights may be moved to a road segment on any 
of the tiles of the city formerly containing the knight. 
 
The dash 
The same rules apply as for “A new lease on life.” After every action or deployment of a 
follower, the player may sacrifice a point on the scoreboard in order to carry out a further 
action or deploy another follower. 
 
Mountains 
Instead of placing the tile as usual, the player may turn the tile into a mountain by placing 
it - upside down - next to a field without a road. When placing a tile next to a mountain, 
the edge of the placed tile must always be a field without a road. Followers may be 
deployed to the mountain as miners, remaining there until the end of the game. If a 
pennant (smithy) lies within two tiles distance of a miner, then the miner: 
1. counts as a knight when for the purpose of scoring the city in question, and 
2. counts as an additional farmer in relation to the city during final scoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Rebuilding 
After a player has placed a tile as usual, rather than following the usual procedure, he or 
she may do this instead: 
 
1. Move his or her score marker back a given number of points. 
2. For every point deducted, the player may remove an unoccupied tile from the playing 
field and must then place it somewhere else. The tile removed may not be touching 
other tiles on more than two of its sides, and its removal must not divide the playing 
field into unconnected parts. 
3. A follower may be deployed to the removed and replaced tile as usual. 
4. Scoring proceeds as usual. 
 
Only one can choose 
by Robert Vötter 
For this variation an additional figure is required; it is used to indicate which player’s turn 
it is. This player draws as many tiles as there are players. After looking at the tiles, he or 
she distributes them among the other players as he or she chooses, naturally retaining one 
 
Variation a): Distribute the tiles face down. 
Variation b): Distribute the tiles face up, so that all players can see the tiles. 
 
Beginning with the player whose turn it is, the players then take turns to place their tiles. 
Then the figure is passed to the next player and the game proceeds according to the same 
principle. 
 
Note: It is often possible with this variation that a player will pass on a tile which may 
seem useless, only to find that another player uses it so well that one can get quite 
annoyed. 
 
The Count of Carcassonne: Official Variants 
Even the aristocracy are subject to certain rules, and cannot simply do whatever they may 
want. The following variants take this into account and constrain the freedom of the 
Count. Using these variants will lend the mini-expansion even more tactical possibilities. 
In both variants, the Count may no longer be freely moved, but rather: 
 
• whenever a new follower is deployed to the city of Carcassonne, the Count is moved 
clockwise to the next city quarter; or 
• the Count is moved to whichever city quarter the new follower is deployed to. 
 
 

Endnotes 
 
 

Epilogue 
 
Obviously it’s important to have a unified set of rules for any game, allowing anyone to 
just sit down and play the game together. However, as the Carcassonne community has 
found, this becomes increasingly difficult with the challenges of multiple languages and 
multiple expansion sets. 
 
The following is a statement from Georg Wild of Hans im Glück. The translation is not 
quite a verbatim quote, but it attempts to convey the spirit of his words: 
 
Carcassone is important to us, but it is still a game. 
In the context of tournaments, precisely defined rules are, of course, absolutely necessary 
and have been used in previous official tournaments. 
The “more problematic” expansions are not designed for tournament use and are probably 
not suitable for tournaments. Should a tournament with all expansions take place, the 
tournament coordinators are the best people to determine the best solution for that frame. 
More common are games among friends. In reality, the majority of “problems” have two 
absolutely equivalent solutions. The best criterion for coming up with a solution is the 
taste of those playing the game, because if this taste is taken into account, the fun will 
probably also be maximized … and this is what it all comes down to in the end, no? 
 
 
 

CarcassonneCentral 
 
There’s a good chance that, if you’re reading this document, you probably downloaded it 
from CarcassonneCentral (http://carcassonnecentral.com/). If you haven’t already, you 
could show your support by joining the community and letting us know what you think. 
Naturally, it is completely free. 
 
Most of the work surrounding this document goes on in the CarcassonneCentral as a 
whole. I think it is fair to call CarcassonneCentral the premiere Carcassonne-related 
website in the English-speaking world. It was set up in March 2007 when Gantry Rogue 
contacted Matt Harper about a possible collaboration, and since then has gone from 
strength to strength. 
 
Quite simply, if you have a Carcassonne-related question, a suggestion for the CAR, want 
to ask people to play-test a variant you’ve been working on, or just feel like asking what 
everybody else is playing at the moment, we’d be pleased to welcome you to 
CarcassonneCentral. It’s a great way to keep up with official news and community 
developments, and signing up really only takes a minute. 
 

Acknowledgements 
 
Klaus-Jürgen Wrede, for creating such a great game. 
Hans im Glück and Z-Man Games, for publishing it. 
 
kettlefish, for getting numerous clarifications from HiG and for creating the German-
English Dictionary. 
Georg Wild at HiG, for answering all our questions. 
Christof Tisch, rules designer at HiG, for helping with the School, the Minis 1-6(7), and the 
Wind Roses. 
Skull One, for his turn summary. 
Matthew Harper, for carrying the CAR for years. 
Christian Hermann, for providing a number of German clarifications (and translations) 
peterjpromnitz for tile scans from the 2012 Mini expansions 
Gantry Rogue, for coming up with the CarcassonneCentral idea in the first place. 
 
Robin Sussillo, for the getting the ball rolling. 
Roy Levien (Aldaron), for being a rules lawyer. 
danielbrie, for the newest cover. I actually already used it on a previous version but I 
forgot to add his name to this list. Sorry! 
Whaleyland, for the original updated cover, encouragement, and proofreading. 
Caryntjen, also for work on the cover 
CKorfmann, for repeated reminders and encouragement. 
David Whitworth, for his summary of figure characteristics 
John Sweeney, for hosting a great site and for information about the GQ11. 
Scott, Olon Callaway, André Santos, Patrik Wikström (wicke), Cesar Moreno 
(NoMasOvejas), Jeff Hoffman (Gamemaster), Gilbert Cerise (chiefouray), Brandon 
Clarke (bwtcf), Brett Myers (disclaimer), and The Broox for proof-reading. 
Eric Weingarten (Little My), Mike LeDuc (ducker), Andy Tinkham (tinkha), Randy Szabadics 
(ironmule), and The Broox for information about Rio Grande Games editions. 
Kevin Wood (kvn299), for the scan of the GQ11 tiles. 
Ken Shin (dvader123) and Brian Mola (ColtsFan76), for drawing attention to ambiguities in 
the FAQ for The Count of Carcassonne, and to the errors on the tile distribution for 
the Basic Game. 
hester, for extensive proof-reading and pointing out inconsistencies, especially with regard 
to the Glossary section. 
Vladimír Sýkora, for pointing out problems with spare and extra tiles in the tile overview. 
eddebaby, for his extremely helpful breakdown of what needed to be done to update the 
CAR. 
 
Special thanks to the CarcassonneCentral, Carcassonne-Forum, and BoardGameGeek 
communities in general. 
 
Naturally, all errors are entirely my own. 
 
 

Version History 
 
6.4 (11 December 2013) Corrections to the Order of Play, especially regarding Princess & 
Dragon effects. Added the escape from a besieged city to the Order of Play. Several 
clarifications added, especially involving the Minis #1-6 and Princess & Dragon. Added the 
Spielbox version of the Windroses rules. Updated the definition of a feature in the glossary 
and added a few terms to the German/English Dictionary. 
6.3 (11 May 2013) Added further clarifications for various rules; also added dates that 
recent footnotes were added or modified. The new German/English Dictionary section has 
also been added. Some example figures and situations were added to several sections, 
and most figures now use the more current shade of green for fields. 
6.2 (9 December 2012) Added clarifications relating to the Minis and previous questions, 
and corrected a few typos. Made some of the official clarification footnotes more concise. 
Added new sections for Little Buildings and Wind Roses, and brought back Selected 
Variants. Additionally, there is now a Timeline of Releases section showing box art. Also 
incorporated Big Box 4 and Z-Man Games releases into the appropriate sections. 
6.1 (3 September 2012) Added clarifications answering many of the questions from the 
previous version. Some adjustments to the rules for the Minis, and also added tile scans 
for the Minis. Further changes to the turn order summary. Included the Winter Edition as 
its own expansion. Added World Championship Tournament rules. Added sections for 
Collections & Expansions list and collector’s checklist. 
6.0 (9 July 2012) First version with all new editorial and writing staff (sounds a lot more 
impressive than it really is – changed from Matt Harper to Chris Ober). Added formatting 
to show which footnotes are official clarifications and which are unofficial. Some other 
minor reformatting. Added La Porxada, The School, and the 7 mini-expansions from 2012. 
Added tile list and glossary entries for these expansions. Added tile images for The Festival 
and The Count. New front cover image (thanks to Caryntjen). 
5.0 beta 10 (unpublished) Added corrections / updates from both HiG and RGG editions 
of the Big Box 2 and 3. Full list of corrections on the CarcassonneCentral thread here: 
http://carcassonnecentral.com/forum/index.php?topic=1362.0. Moved all house rules to 
the end of each relevant expansion; removed Further Developments section. 
5.0 beta 9 (9 February 2011) Included Whaleyland’s corrections. Added and adapted 
Skull One’s turn summary. Revised the scoring overview, splitting in into three sections. 
Added a low quality placeholder image of a phantom follower (actually the box!). Glossary: 
auction. 
5.0 beta 8 (8 February 2011) Changed ‘plague’ from The Wheel of Fate to ‘pestilence’ to 
distinguish it from The Plague. Added Crop Circles, The Plague., The Party and The 
Phantom. Glossary: phantom, party, inactive, active player, flea, plague source, epidemic, 
eradicate, infestation, flight, crop circle, pitchfork, club, shield; edited follower and all 
abbreviations. 
5.0 beta late than 7 (5 February 2011) Added rules for The Tunnel and Bridges, Castles 
and Bazaars. Added Whaleyland’s new cover. Increased font size by 1 point for (hopefully) 

the entire document. Standardised the Tile Distribution lists. Removed gradients from table 
backgrounds. Incorporated joshgambit’s corrections. Glossary: castle, small city, bridge 
(2), bazaar, bid, claim, tunnel portal, tunnel token, underground, visible; edited tunnel and 
adjacent. Switched Fortune and Inquisition graphics the rules of The Wheel of Fate. 
Corrected ‘sub-game’ to ‘mini-game’. 
5.0 beta 6 (15 July 2009) Incorporated the rest of hester’s suggestions, greatly improving 
the Glossary. Added several variations to the house rules section. Added rules for The 
Wheel of Fate, along with the associated additions to things like the Tile Reference and 
Glossary. 
5.0 beta 5 (20 January 2009) Incorporated some of hester’s suggestions and corrected 
The River II (sorry Novelty!) Added more info about spare and extra tiles in the tile 
overview. Following wicke’s suggestion, changed all references to ‘small’ followers to 
‘normal’ followers. 
5.0 beta 4 (19 January 2009) Rebuilt the Overview and house rules sections, added 
Contact, CC and Glossary pages. Corrected a number of errors, capitalised all references to 
‘the Count’ ‘the King’ and ‘the Robber Baron’. 
5.0 beta 3 (12 December 2008) Incorporated (finally!) wicke’s corrections, as well as a 
few from CC. 
5.0 beta 2 (29 November 2008) Rules distribution lists and/or notes for the Spielbox 
Almanac, Cult, Siege and Creativity, and The Catapult. Updated to take account of RGG’s 
switch to 3rd edition farmer scoring. 
5.0 beta (6 February 2008) Completely re-formatted; rules and FAQ for the sixth 
expansion—Count, King and Consorts. Too many changes to list, really. 
4.1 (28 January 2008) Numerous corrections. 
4.0 (24 October 2007) Added new rules, tile distribution list, and FAQ for the fifth 
expansion—Abbey & Mayor. There’s also a new introduction. This edition probably has too 
many changes to list. 
3.7.3 (23 August 2007) Corrected a mistake on p.59 (thanks to Johannes Boe). 
3.7.2 (3 May 2007): Corrected ambiguities in the FAQ for The Count of Carcassonne, and 
tile distribution lists for the basic game. 
3.7.1 (11 March 2007): Corrected errors in the Tile Distribution lists and in the 
introduction. 
3.7 (10 March 2007): Completely reworked all the Tile Distribution lists; used a new (more 
logical) notation, and rotated all tiles to match it. Also added all the RGG ‘proofs’ to the 
Incorporated & Depreciated FAQ. 
3.6 (1 March 2007): Extensive proof-reading by Olon Callaway; added the Incorporated & 
Depreciated FAQ; corrected the errors spotted by André Santos; numerous edits on the 
basis of comparison with the RGG edition (many thanks to ironmule for the scan!) 
3.5.4 (15 February 2007): Removed references to two pig-herd tiles from The River II 
(forgot to do that in 3.5.1). 

3.5.3 (14 February 2007): removed shadow from Carcassonne logo on p.5—seemed to be 
causing crashes in Preview. 
3.5.2 (6 February 2007): correction on p. 33; added version number to header. 
3.5.1 (1 February 2007): numerous corrections in the text; incorporated the new ruling 
that the GQ expansion does not contain a pig-herd tile. 
3.0 (11 December 2006): Added tile distribution lists to the original game and all 
expansions except The Count of Carcassonne, a consolidated tile reference, and the 
translations of the variations from the official home page. Numerous layout changes. 
2.0 (4 December 2006): First public offering of the complete annotated rules. The page on 
the GQ expansion looks a bit empty—no rules or translations, although there are a couple 
of FAQ from other expansions which seem relevant. 
1.2 (3 December 2006): A number of changes throughout, thanks to proof-reading by 
Andy Tinkham (tinkha). 
1.1.1 (3 December 2006): A few minor changes, with footnotes about incorrect images 
(farmer standing up), pointed out by Cesar Moreno (NoMasOvejas). Also included this 
Version History for the first time. 
1.1 (2 December 2006): Removed background shadows, which was making the PDF crash 
Preview. Resulting file smaller and more stable. 
1.0.1 (2 December 2006): Incorporated information from Andy Tinkham (tinkha): tower 
blocks should be tower pieces, and several things about older editions. Also changed all 
graphics from TIFF to PNG, saving quite a lot of space. 
1.0 (2 December 2006): Complete first draft, sent to BGG. 
0.6 (30 November 2006): Inns and Cathedrals and Traders and Builders completed. 
0.4 (20 November 2006): Basic rules completed. 
0.2 (19 November 2006): First two pages of the basic rules completed. 
 
 

Contact 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher Ober 
 
obervet03@yahoo.com 
 
 
obervet at 
 
http://carcassonnecentral.com