?
Possible places:
In this example, there are 
five possible places in which 
«Man» can be played.
HOW TO PLAY? 
•	 The first player to place their last card successfully is the winner.
•	 Each player, at his turn, must attempt to place one of his cards in the right 
place. 
•	 If the players fails to do so, he discards this card and draws a new one.

“CHARACTERISTICS” SIDE
FRONT SIDE
Contents
110 cards with the name of an animal and an artwork depicting it on the front 
side. On the reverse, the same information is given along with the animal’s 
characteristics.
Common name.
Scientific name.
Artwork.
Family.
Species’ level of risk of extinction,
(when there’s no gauge, it’s because there 
isn’t enough data to evaluate it).
Characteristics.

The amphibians
The arachnids
The crustaceans
The insects
The mammals
The sea mammals
The mollusks
The birds
The fish
The reptiles
The animal families
Details about the characteristics
The average size: this is the 
average 
size 
of 
animals 
not 
including the tail. For reptiles, the 
tail length is taken into account. 
Birds are measured from their feet 
to the top of their heads, and not by 
their wingspan. The size is given in 
inches (in.), and feet (ft).
The average weight: this is the 
average weight of the animals, and 
is given in ounces (oz), pounds 
(lbs), and tons (t).
The average lifespan: this is the 
average lifespan of the animal, and 
is expressed in days (d), months 
and years.

Object of the game
To be the only player who no longer has any cards.
Setup
1 Players decide with which characteristic the game will be played: size, 
weight or lifespan.
2 Each player is dealt four cards. Players do not look at the “characteristics” 
side of the cards. More than 4 cards can be distributed as players become 
more experienced with the game.
3 The deck of remaining cards is placed on the table with the “characteristics” 
side hidden.
4 The first card from the deck is placed in the middle of the table (it will be 
called the initial card from here on), by flipping its ”characteristic” side 
up. The line in which players will have the place the cards in front of them 
will be made using this card as a start.
5 You can begin to play!

Cards dealt to players
Card deck
Initial card
Play area
First player

Game overview
The players play in turn, going clockwise. The first player must place one of 
their cards next to the initial card:
If the player believes that the characteristic of the animal on their 
card is smaller than that of the animal on the initial card, the player 
places their card to the left of the initial card.
If the player believes that the characteristic of the animal on their 
card is greater than that of the animal on the initial card, the player 
places their card to the right of the initial card.
Once placed, the player flips their card so that the “characteristic” side 
shows, in order to check that the characteristic value properly corresponds to 
the position it occupies in the line:
If the card is properly placed, the card remains where it is, 
“characteristic” side up.
If the card isn’t properly placed, it is returned to the box. The player must 
then draw the first card of the deck and place it in front of him or herself, 
“characteristic” side hidden, with their other cards.
First player’s turn:

It’s then the second player’s (the player to the left of the first one) turn to 
play
If the first player has correctly placed their card, the second player then 
has three choices where to place their card: to the left of the two cards 
already played, to their right, or between them.
If the first player hasn’t placed their card correctly, the second player 
then only has two choices (to the right or the left of the initial card).
If the second player properly places their card, it remains where it is, 
“characteristic” side up. The line is then repositioned so that a space 
remains between each card.
Second player’s turn:
Third player’s turn:

It’s now the third player’s turn to play.
If the two previous players have correctly placed their card, the player now 
has the choice between four spaces.
And so on...
End of game and victory
If a player is the only one to correctly play their last card during a round, that 
player is immediately declared the winner. If multiple players correctly place 
their last card during a round, they remain in play and all other players are 
eliminated. The remaining players each get a card from the deck with which 
they will keep playing until only one player places their card correctly.
Special case
During the game, it can happen that a player may have to place a card with the 
same characteristic value as one already placed. In that case, the two cards 
must be placed side by side, with no concern about order.
www.asmodee.com
www.studiobombyx.com
Credits
Author: Frédéric Henry
Artwork: Gaël Lannurien
Encyclopedic research: Guillaume Blossier
Translation: Eric Harlaux
Revision: Eric Franklin
Cardline Animals is a game co-published by Asmodee and Bombyx.
©Asmodee/Bombyx 2012 – All rights reserved