© 2004 Winning Moves Deutschland
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
RioGames@aol.com
www.riograndegames.com
1-0904

Contents
through dangerous waters
Michail Antonow Jens-Peter Schliemann
2 – 4 players
8 and up
length 30 minutes
T he Caribbean in the 18th century: 6 pirate ships lie in wait on the sea,
re a dy to pillage the rich ports, or to rob the booty from other ships. 
T he sea is divided into spaces. Each player is in possession of three safe
h a v e ns, ma r ked in his color on the board.
T he pirate ships do not belong to any player. Thu s, the players mu s t
bribe the pirates each time they want a pirate ship to act on the i r
behalf. And what is the greatest temptation for a Caribbean pirate? Rum
of course, barrels full of rum!
T he aim of each player is to lure the pirates to deliver tre a s u re che s t s
to one of his own safe havens, and not to those of his oppone nt s. 
In every ro u nd, the player who has of f e red the most rum to a ship ge t s
to move that ship as ma ny spaces as the number of barrels shown on
t he bribing chip. An active ship can rob a tre a s u re chest from a port or
f rom ano t her ship, swap tre a s u re chests with ano t her ship, and / o r
deliver a tre a s u re chest to a safe haven. The aim is to have the mo s t
do u b l o o ns at the end of the game.
Overview
game board
4 card holders (carefully assemble them before the first game)
16 treasure chests
4 x 7 bribe cards
35 coins (doubloons)
(not shown)
6 pirate ships 
(carefully assemble them
before the first game)
treasure chest supply
harbor city
starting space for
pirate ship
sea space
safe haven

Preparation
Playing the game
Bribing pirate ships: 
At the start of each round, each player allocates six of their seven
bribing cards to the names of the six ships on their card holders. Each
places he seventh card (intended as tie-breaker in case of a draw) face
down next to the card holder. When all players have completed
placing their bidding cards, they give their OK, and, then can no
longer change their bidding cards for this round.
Move the ships in alphabetical order
First, each player reveals his bidding card for Arriba by placing it face
up in front of his card holder so all can see it. The player who bid the
most barrels, immediately moves the Arriba, moving it a number of
sea spaces equal to the number of barrels in his bid. However, each
thief card played by an opponent subtracts one space from the ship’s
movement. The player need not use his full movement allowance when
moving a ship. Only one ship may occupy a sea space. Players must
move ships around occupied sea spaces. Ships may move through all
safe havens and ships may stop at safe havens.
After the Arriba has been moved, the players reveal their bids for the
Bravo and the player with the highest bid move it in the same way.
Then come the Caribic, the Diabolo, the Evita, and, at last, the Fuego.
Ties in bidding: in case of a draw, the highest bidders must decide if
they want to use their tie-breaker cards. To this end, they lay their
hands flat over their tie-breaker cards and then, simultaneously, lift
their hands. A face up card means the player is bidding some more
(note: zero is more than -1). The winner gets to move the ship, but
Each player takes a card holder and a set of 7 bribing cards in his
color. He places the card holder so he can see the ship names.
Shuffle the 16 treasure chests face down. Choose 6 treasure chests at
random and place them face up on the ports indicated on them. 
Place the remaining 10 treasure chests face down in piles of two each
on the five special spaces in the upper right corner of the board.
Place the coins next to the board. They have the following values:
• gold
= 10.000 doubloons
• silver
= 5.000 doubloons
• copper = 1.000 doubloons
Place the 6 pirate ships randomly on the starting spaces marked with
the ship symbols. These symbols are of no further importance
during the game.
T he pirate ships do not belong to any player. Thu s, the players mu s t
bribe the pirates to act on their behalf accord i ng to their stra t e g ie s.
For each capture of a harbor city and for each treasure chest brought
to a player’s safe haven, the player earns doubloons.
At game end, the player with the most doubloons is the winner!

only as far as the number of barrels on the original card allows,
subtracting any thief cards from the original bids. The number of
barrels on the tie-breaker card does not influence the number of
spaces moved. If there are any thieves on any of the tie-breaker cards,
the number of spaces is reduced accordingly. Once revealed, a tie-
breaker card cannot be used a second time until the next round. If the
result of the tie-breaker is another tie, the ship is not moved in this
round and remains where it is. Tie-breaker cards revealed face down
can be used to break another tie.
Getting treasure chests:
When a player wins the bid and moves
a ship, he is the active player and can
capture a harbor city to steal the
treasure chest there, or steal a
treasure chest from another ship,
swap a treasure chest with another
ship, or deliver a treasure chest to a
safe haven. Each ship may only carry
one chest at a time and the value of the chest must be visible on the
deck of the ship. The active player may take these actions in any
order he chooses, whenever he chooses during the ship’s movement,
including before and after he moves the ship.
capture:
when the ship being moved is in a sea space with a harbor
city with a treasure chest, it can steal the treasure chest,
loading. The active player puts the treasure chest on the
ship and takes 2,000 doubloons for his effort.
steal:
when the ship being moved is in an adjacent sea space to
a ship carrying a treasure chest, it may steal the treasure
chest. The active player moves the treasure chest to the
moving ship
swap:
when the ship being moved has a treasure chest and is in
an adjacent sea space to a ship carrying a treasure chest,
the active player may swap the two treasure chests
between the two ships.
deliver:
when the ship being moved is in a space adjacent to a
player’s safe haven, the ship may deliver a treasure chest
to the safe haven if it is carrying one. The active player
moves the treasure chest from the ship to his safe haven.
Delivering treasure chests to safety:
T he active player can deliver a tre a s u re chest to safety whe n :
• when the ship being moved moves through a safe harbor and unloads
a tre a s u re chest the re,
• w hen the ship being moved stops at a safe harbor and unloads a
t re a s u re chest the re,
• w hen the ship being moved is stand i ng at a safe harbor and unloads
a tre a s u re chest the re.
In all cases, the owner of the safe haven (normally, the active player,
but it could be another player) earns the number of doubloons shown
on the treasure chest (4,000 – 8,000 doubloons). The active player
then places the treasure chest face down on the city names on the
chest to show its chest has been taken and will not be available again
in the game.
Important: a player may never throw a treasure chest overboard!
Doubloons earned by players are public and must be displayed in the
players’ play areas for all to see.
The following rounds
When all 6 ships have been moved, including any that failed to move
because of an absolute tie, the round ends. After each round, the
players place the next two treasure chests from the treasure chest
supply (going from left to right) on the names harbor cities until,
after 5 rounds, all treasure chests have been placed on the board.
Each player takes his bidding cards back and a new round begins. The
ships remain where they were at the end of the round.
Game end and the winner
The game ends when at least one player has:
• 62.000 doubloons (2 players)
• 41.000 doubloons (3 players)
• 31.000 doubloons (4 players) 
The current round is played to completion. The player at the end of
the round is the winner!