72 Ingredient cards 
 8 Padlock tokens 
 4 counters 
 22 double-sided runes 
 8 Sickle tokens 
 1 Ancestor token
 4 boards 
 8 Bonus Ingredient tokens 
 1 score pad
CONTENTS
A game of Carnuta plays over a series of turns. On your turn, you will take 2 actions, 
the same or different, out of the 4 possible. The goal of the game is to create 
a potion by playing cards in front of you. Each card is worth points depending 
on the ingredients in your potion. The game ends once one player plays 
an 11th card in front of them. 
Optimize the combinations of your ingredients to gain the highest score 
and win the game!
OVERVIEW AND GOAL OF THE GAME
Welcome to Carnuta, the annual druidic ritual! 
Thank you all for traveling so far from your distant lands. 
As is tradition, we’ve organized a potion contest to elect the druid of the year. 
So, ready your sickles… and let the competition begin!
Watch 
the rules video!

  Place the 8 Bonus Ingredient tokens nearby.
  Return any remaining components back to the box; they will not be used 
during this game.
Number 
of players
Number 
of faceup runes
1  and 1 
2  and 2 
3  and 3 
  Sort the Ingredient cards into Day and Night (see Card Anatomy), shuffle 
each stack separately, and form 2 decks, facedown.
  Reveal the top 4 cards of each deck and place them in a row, faceup.
  Leave a space for cards discarded during the game.
  Make a reserve of runes according to the number of players:
  Choose a board and place it in front of you.
  Take a counter and insert it in the window of your board 
on level “1.”
  Place 4 runes, 2 on the Sun side     and 2 on the Moon side    , 
on the first four spaces on your board.
  Take 2 Padlock tokens and place 1 on each of the last two spaces on your board.
  Place 2 Sickle tokens on your board.
  Shuffle the 8 starting cards (see Card Anatomy) and give 1 to each player. 
Place your card in front of you, faceup.
  Place the Ancestor token in front of a random player: They become the Ancestor 
for this game.
SETUP
FOR EACH PLAYER
FOR ALL PLAYERS (IN THE CENTER OF THE TABLE)

 A
 B
C
 D
 E
 F
 G
 Rune cost 
 Ingredient 
 Ingredient reminder 
 Points
 Starting card 
 Day Ingredients: Clover, Flower, Egg, and Honey 
 Night Ingredients: Skull, Butterfly, Berry, and Mushroom
Back
Front
CARD ANATOMY

Then place the card in front of you by making columns per Ingredient. 
Stack the cards so you can always see the Ingredient reminder and the points 
the card is worth.
Special cards
At the end of the game, double cards count as 2 Ingredients 
of the type shown.
Salt is a Wild Ingredient. When you play a Salt card, stack it 
on a card already played in front of you. 
At the end of the game, the Salt counts as 1 extra Ingredient 
of this type.
Note: Once placed, a Salt card cannot be moved.
PLAY A CARD
Choose a card from your hand and pay the cost shown with the runes 
on your board:
GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW
Flip the rune shown 
to its other side.
Return the rune shown 
to the reserve, without 
flipping it.
TAKE A CARD
Take a card from the 8 visible in the center of the table and add it to your hand. 
Replace it immediately with the top card of the corresponding deck.
You may have any number of cards in hand during your turn, but you are 
limited to 3 cards at the end of your turn.
Your 2 actions can be the same or different, and you may do them in any order.
The game plays clockwise, starting with the Ancestor. 
On your turn, take 2 actions from the 4 following actions:
TAKE A CARD
TAKE RUNES
PLAY A CARD
FLIP RUNES

FLIP RUNES
Flip runes on your board so that you only have runes of the same type faceup: 
Moons or Suns.
Sickle
At any time on your turn, in addition to your 2 actions, you may discard a Sickle 
to discard the 4 Day or Night Ingredients in the center of the table and reveal 
4 new Ingredients from the corresponding deck.
Empty deck
If a deck runs out, take all the cards of the same type (Day or Night) from the discard, 
shuffle them, and make a new deck.
End your turn by checking the 2 following points:
•  3 cards in hand. Discard any cards above this limit.
•  Move your counter. It must match the number of cards in front of you.
Finally, move your counter by one space. It must always correspond 
to the number of cards played in front of you. 
Certain spaces offer a bonus. When you reach one, immediately benefit 
from the corresponding effect:
Remove a Padlock from your board. From now on you have an extra space 
for your runes.
Take a Bonus Ingredient token from those available in the center 
of the table and place it in front of you. At the end of the game, this counts 
as 1 extra Ingredient of the type shown.
TAKE RUNES
Fill the empty spaces on your board, as many as possible, with runes 
from the reserve, without flipping them. You may take either Moons or Suns, 
but never both types of runes in the same action.
Note: Spaces blocked by a Padlock are not yet available.
END OF TURN

Finally, you move your counter one space. You end your turn with 3 runes 
on your board (2 Sun and 1 Moon), as well as 2 cards in hand. You will be able 
to play your Egg or Clover on your next turn.
As your second action, you decide to play your Berry. You add it to your Berry 
column by paying its cost: You flip a Moon on your board to its other side 
and return a second rune to the reserve.
You begin your turn with 3 cards in hand and 2 runes on your board (1 Sun 
and 1 Moon). As your first action, you fill the spaces on your board with Moons. 
There are only 2 available in the reserve, so your 5th space remains empty.
EXAMPLE OF A FULL TURN

Eric
From top to bottom, you gain 2 points, 12 points (4×3 sets 
of Berry/Clover), and 4 points (1×4 Butterfly).
From top to bottom, you gain 2 points, 0 points, and 4 points 
(4×1 set of Mushroom/Clover).
You have no Skull cards.
You gain 3 points (1×3 Clover, 1×0 Flower).
From top to bottom, you gain 6 points (2×3 Clover) and 5 points.
You have no Flower cards.
You gain 0 points.
You gain 2 points (2×1 Mushroom).
Example:
The end of the game is triggered as soon as one player plays their 11th card. 
Finish the current turn (until the person to the right of the Ancestor), then take 
a final turn.
Note: You may play more than 11 cards in front of you, even if your counter doesn't go 
beyond that.
Use the score pad to count the points on your cards, Ingredient by Ingredient 
(see Description of Points, page 8).
The player with the highest score wins the game. 
In case of tie, the player with the most points in a single Ingredient wins. 
If there’s still a tie, share the victory.
END OF THE GAME

Designers: Yohan Goh, Hope S. Hwang and Gary Kim 
Illustrator: Davide Tosello 
Credits and thanks: www.rprod.com/en/carnuta/credits 
Follow us: 
  @ReposProductionUS | 
  @ReposProduction
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2026. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
Repos Production SA • Rue des Comédiens, 22 
1000 Brussels – Belgium • www.rprod.com 
This material may only be used for private entertainment.
Gain 6 points for each set of 3 Ingredients shown.
Gain 4 points for each set of 2 Ingredients shown.
Gain 2 points for each Ingredient shown.
Gain 1 point for each Ingredient shown, 
including this card.
Gain 1 point for each of the two Ingredients 
shown.
Gain 5 points.
Gain 2 points.
DESCRIPTION OF POINTS
(Example using the 7 Mushroom cards with point values)