Carnegie
Rulebook

PART 1: INTRODUCING CARNEGIE
“Success is the power with which to acquire whatever one 
demands of life without violating the rights of others.” 

This game is inspired by the life of Andrew Carnegie, who was born in 
Scotland in 1835 and emigrated to the United States with his parents 
in 1848. Although Carnegie started his career as a telegraph operator, 
his role as a major player in the rise of the United States’ steel industry 
made him one of the richest men in the world and an icon of the 
American dream.
Carnegie was also a benefactor and philanthropist. Upon his death in 
1919, more than $350 million of his wealth was bequeathed to various 
foundations, with another $30 million going to various charities. His 
endowments created nearly 2,500 free public libraries that bear his 
name to this day: the Carnegie libraries.
In Carnegie, players will recruit employees and expand their businesses 
by investing in real estate, producing goods, developing transport 
technology, and creating transport chains across the United States. 
Perhaps they will even become illustrious benefactors who contribute to 
the country’s greatness through their deeds and generosity!
The game takes place over 20 rounds, with players each having one 
turn per round. In each round the active player will choose one of four 
actions, which the other players will follow.
The success of a player’s Company is represented by their victory points 
(VP), and the player with the most VP at the end of the game will be 
declared the winner, known forevermore for their philanthropic works.
1.	 How to Read these Rules
These rules are organized into four parts: 
Part 1:	Introducing Carnegie
This section presents a list of game components, describes the game’s 
setup, and provides a short overview of how Companies work.
Part 2:	Playing the Game
This section provides a full overview of the rules, detailing the steps of rounds, main actions, and final scoring.
Part 3:	Transportation Tracks, Donations Chart, & Departments Board
This section provides in-depth explanations of these elements of the game. 
Part 4:	Solo Game
This section presents rules for playing alone against a virtual opponent.
While reading these rules, remember: 
Important and/or easily-forgotten points are highlighted like this.
Examples and captions are written like this.
Tips and game advice are written like this.
Quotes and Thematic information are written like this.
“As a game designer, I admire players who take the time to read 
rules and explain them to others. It’s no secret that Carnegie is a 
complex game. As encouragement, please remember that Carnegie 
himself was a great reader, and that he built his fortune by learning 
a lot from books.” – Xavier Georges 

2.	 Game Components
1 Game board
This Rulebook, plus:
8 Timeline tiles 
4 Action markers (apply stickers before use)
32 Department tiles 
(2 each of 16 different Departments)
16 Project tabs (4 per player)
60 Employee figurines (15 per player)
120 Player disks (30 per player)
90 Banknotes 
(40x$1, 30x$5, 
20x$10) 
1 First-player marker
1 Timeline marker
40 Goods cubes
4 Company boards
4 Action Choice tiles
1 Start and 1 End tile 
(to frame the Timeline tiles)
25 Solo cards 
(20 action cards and 5 victory point cards)
4 Player aids
Note: Although unlikely, certain 
components may run out during the game. 
If necessary, players may use appropriate 
substitutes for money and goods cubes. 
All other components are limited.

3.	 	Game Setup
Two-player game setup shown.
1 	Place the main game board in the center 
of the table.
2 	Shuffle the 8 Timeline tiles. Draw 4 of 
these at random and arrange them as 
shown. Note that these tiles are double-
sided; select sides at random. Frame these 
tiles with the Start and End tiles, and 
return the 4 unused Timeline tiles to 
the box.
3 	Place the four action markers on their 
corresponding starting positions on the 
far left of the Timeline.
4 	For a 4/3/2-player game, select 4/8/16 
Department tiles at random and 
return them to the game box. Place the 
remaining Department tiles face-up on 
the table, as shown.
5 	Create a supply of goods cubes and 
money tokens near the main game board. 
6 	Provide each player with:
	
A 	 4 goods cubes and $12.
	
B 	 1 Company board and a set of 
4 different project tabs. Players 
should slide each tab under the 
right side of their individual game 
boards so that the colors and 
icons match. Leave each tab’s first 
(rightmost) spot exposed.
	
C 	 10 Employee figurines. Each player 
places 1 of their employees standing 
up on each of their Company’s 
5 Departments, with another 5 
employees lying down in their 
Company’s Lobby (these may 
be moved during step 11). 
Set the remaining 5 employees 
aside; they will not be available 
at the beginning of the game.
	
D 	 30 player disks. Each player 
must place:
	
	 	 	
D1 1 disk on the “0” position 
of the score track.
	
	 	 	
D2 1 disk on the first space 
of each of the 4 regional 
transportation tracks.
	
	 	 	
D3 1 disk on each of the 3 
available locations on their 
project tabs (Housing, 
Commerce, Industry). 
Public Infrastructure 
(magenta) tabs do not 
start the game with a disk. 
	
	 	 	
D4 The remaining 22 disks form 
the player’s personal supply.
	
The most daring player is designated as 
the first player. That player receives the 
first-player marker and the Timeline 
marker.
	
(Not pictured) In a 4-player game, 
give each player an Action Choice tile. 
In a 3-player game, only the third 
player receives an Action Choice tile; 
there are no Action Choice tiles in a 
2-player game.
	
In a 2-player game, set aside 18 disks 
from an unused player color and shuffle 
the solo-game action cards. Draw one 
of these cards and place a disk on the 
donation chart in the location indicated 
at the top of the card. Then, place a disk 
on the leftmost unoccupied construction 
space of each of the 2-4 cities named on 
that card’s 4th row. Repeat this process 
until all 18 disks have been placed. 
A
B
D1
D3
D4

	
Do the same when setting up a 3-player 
game, but with 9 disks instead. For a 
4-player game, skip this step. 
	
Beginning with the player sitting to 
the right of the first player and going 
counter-clockwise, each player will then 
place the disk from their Housing tab 
onto the game board, on a Housing 
space in a medium or major city.
	
Starting with the first player and going 
in clockwise order, each player may 
move their employees up to a total of 
6 steps on their own Company boards; 
each movement must be made to an 
orthogonally (not diagonally) adjacent 
space. After an employee moves, it must 
be laid down. Employees may be moved 
onto empty building spaces on the 
player board. 
	
In this setup diagram, the yellow player’s 
Company board shows one possible 
arrangement of employees after these 
6 moves have been made.
	
Finally, once these movements are 
completed, each player may activate 
employees (see page 13).

To succeed, players must understand how Companies work.
4.1.	 Company Organization
Player companies are organized into Departments. Each Department 
corresponds to one of the game’s four types of actions, as follows:
Human Resources
Allows players to move employees to different areas within their 
Companies; employees may move to Departments and/or empty 
spaces.
Management
Allows players to acquire goods and money, as well as build new 
Departments. Each Company begins the game with two different 
Management Departments.
Construction
Allows players to build projects developed by their 
R&D Departments.
Research & Development (“R&D”)
Allows players to design new projects and develop 
transport networks.
At the start of the game, each Company has 1 Lobby and 5 
Departments. During the game, players will be able to expand their 
Companies by building new Departments. Each Department may 
hold 1-3 active (standing) employees, as indicated by the number of 
Workstations illustrated on that Department.
 A Department cannot be used unless it contains at least one active 
employee. Each Department may be used once per round for each 
active employee that it contains.
1 	Department type
2 	Department ability
3 	Employee 
Workstations 
(this Department 
may hold two 
active employees)
4 	Cost to activate 
the employee at 
this Workstation
4.2.	 Recruiting Employees
Employees can be either active (standing) or inactive (lying down).
When an employee first enters a Company board, it always does so in 
an inactive state (lying down). Whenever an inactive employee moves, 
it remains inactive. If an active (standing) employee is moved, it 
must be laid down. 
Each Department may hold one active employee for each Employee 
Workstation depicted on that Department’s tile, and any number 
of inactive employees. For an employee to be considered active it 
must occupy a Workstation, and each Workstation can only hold one 
employee. Lobbies may contain any number of inactive employees.
Employees may only be activated at the end of a round, after all other 
actions have been taken.
Many Departments’ Workstations are marked with dollar values, 
representing the costs of that employee’s salary and training. To activate 
an employee in a Department, a player must pay the cost indicated on 
the Workstation and then place the employee on that Workstation in 
an active (standing) position. If no cost is indicated, the employee may 
be activated for free. Active employees remain active until they move or 
go on a Mission.
It’s the end of Mary’s
Mary’s turn; she wants to activate a total of 4 employees 
(highlighted below), which will cost $6. 
 
 
 
Unfortunately, Mary
Mary only has $4, meaning that she cannot activate 1 
of her 3 employees with a $2 activation cost. If she has enough income at 
the end of the next round, she can then pay $2 to activate that employee.
4.	 Company Basics
4.3.	 Sending an Employee on a Mission
This symbol indicates a Department that generates effects 
when its employees are sent on Missions. To send an 
employee on a Mission, move an active employee from its 
Workstation in that Department to one of the four Mission 
areas on the game board; you must move the employee 
you used to take this action. 
Employees on Missions are not 
considered to be active. 
Note: Players cannot send employees on 
Missions if they are unable to meet the 
requirements of that action (for example, 
an inability to build due to a lack of 
goods cubes).
4.4.	 Recovering Employees from Missions
When employees return from their Missions, they generate income and 
become available for new work assignments. Returned employees are 
placed in their Companies’ Lobbies in an inactive state (lying down). 
To activate a returned employee, it must first be moved out of its Lobby 
with the Human Resources action; it will be eligible for activation 
at the end of the round. Employees will return from Missions as the 
action markers advance along the Timeline; this will be explained in 
detail in the next chapter.
Tip: It is vital for Companies to send their employees on 
Missions, but players must be careful to not send out too many 
employees as Companies that lack employees will underperform. 
So, it is so essential to recover employees sent on Missions as 
quickly as possible. 

PART 2:	 PLAYING THE GAME
“It marks a big step in your development when you come to 
realize that other people can help you do a better job than you 
could do alone.” – Andrew Carnegie
The game takes place over 20 rounds. Each round consists of four parts, 
which take place in the following order:
1. Select Timeline Row
2. Events
3. Use Departments
4. Activate Employees & End of Round
1. 	 Select Timeline Row
The first player selects the Timeline row that they wish to use: Human 
Resources, Management, Construction, or R&D, and then places the 
Timeline marker (gear) immediately to the right of that action’s marker 
on that Timeline row; doing so will trigger events and determine which 
Departments players will be able to use.
 
 
Mary chooses the R&D Timeline row; she places the Timeline marker 
on the R&D Timeline, to the right of the R&D action marker.
A player may choose any Timeline row, even if that action’s marker 
has reached the last space of its Timeline. In this case, the first player 
must still place the Timeline marker to the right of the action marker. 
Then, the first player must then also turn over the action marker 
on the Timeline row immediately below the chosen row (or Human 
Resources, if R&D was chosen). 
The turned-over action marker must be able to move forward along its 
row. If it cannot do so, instead turn over the action marker on the next 
row below, moving downwards row-by-row if necessary. 
Whenever an action marker is turned face-down, it will trigger the 
event marked to its right (next space). At the end of the round, turn the 
marker face-up once again and advance it one space along its row.
It’s Thomas’ turn. He has chosen the Human Resources action, 
which has already reached the end of its Timeline. 
 
 
 
He must place the Timeline marker to the right of the Human Resources 
action marker and then turn over the action marker in the next row 
below (in this case, the Management Timeline), which will trigger 
an event (see page 8). At the end of his turn, Thomas will turn the 
Management action marker face-up and advance it once space along 
its Timeline. 
Tip: To choose the best possible action, players should consider 
several things: what is best for them, what will help their 
opponents, and which event(s) they want to trigger or avoid. 
Sometimes a less-powerful action can be the best move, as it 
may help you but be totally useless to others. Sometimes, 
the business world can be ruthless…

2. 	Events
Placing the Timeline marker will trigger an event. There are two 
possible events: Take Income and Make a Donation.
2.1.	 Take Income
If the Timeline marker is placed on a Timeline space illustrated with a 
Mission area, that Mission area becomes active. Starting with the first 
player and going clockwise, each player with one or more employees in 
the active Mission area may:
Return 1 or more of their employees from the active Mission area 
to their Company’s Lobby. Each recovered employee will generate 
transport income according to how far the player has developed 
their transportation in the active Mission area. At the beginning of 
the game, each region generates $1 in transport income.
Then, each player that returned an employee from the active 
Mission area receives income from each project they have already 
built, anywhere on the game board. Income is shown on the 
project tab spaces freed up by placing construction disks, and 
which are marked with a . This income is collected only once per 
player, per round, even if more than 1 employee is returned to a 
Company’s Lobby. 
Note: If a player cannot (or does not want to) return an employee 
to their Company’s Lobby, that player will not receive any income 
or transport income for that round.
Note: A player’s transport income corresponds to their level of 
transport development in the active Mission area. A player must 
take the income that corresponds exactly to the position of their 
transportation marker in the active Mission area. 
Mary (playing yellow) just designated the Midwest as the active Mission 
area. With two employees on Missions in that region, she decides to 
return them both to her Company’s Lobby. 
 
 
 
This causes two things to happen: First, Mary
Mary receives $4 in transport 
income ($2 for each returned employee). Then, she receives income from 
each of her already-built projects ($2 and 1 goods cube, as shown in the 
circles with a symbol), because at least one of her employees has 
returned from the Mission area.
Tip: When selecting Timeline rows, players should consider 
how many employees are in each Mission area, as returning 
employees might cause opponents to gain income. 
Tip: Players who send their employees on Missions should 
pay attention to the Timeline. Sending employees on Missions 
to regions several spaces away from the action markers can 
be dangerous, because it may take a long time before they are 
able to return home and generate income. By predicting what 
the other players might do, a player may be able to recover 
employees (and generate income) sooner.
 	
	 	 2.2. Make a Donation
Donations can provide players with lots of end-game 
VP. If the Timeline marker is placed on a “donation” 
symbol, the first player may choose to Make a 
Donation. Then, going in clockwise order, the other 
players may choose to make their own donations. To Make a Donation, 
a player must place a disk on an unoccupied space of the donation 
chart (at the top of the game board). 
A player’s first donation costs $5; each subsequent donation made 
by that player will increase in price by $5 (e.g.: a second donation 
will cost $10; a third will cost $15, and so on). For more on donations, 
see page 14.
Note: If one of the four rightmost positions of the Timeline are 
triggered, each player may choose to do one or both: Take Income 
and/or Make a Donation.
3. 	Use Departments
The first player may use any of their own Departments that correspond 
to the chosen action type, and in any order. Then, going in clockwise 
order, the other players may do the same with their own corresponding 
Each Department may be used once for each active (standing) 
employee in that Department. An active employee will remain active 
until it moves or is sent on a Mission. 
Players are never required to use all active employees in a given 
Department, but they must finish using one Department before 
using another, and may not return to a previously used Department 
later in the same turn.
When a Department provides multiple effects, a player may decide 
which effect to use for each of their active employees in that 
Department. 
Note that some Departments have passive or ongoing effects. Such a 
Department will function as long as it contains 1 active employee (the 
New Lobby does not require an active employee). For Department 
descriptions, see pages 16 and 17.
ACTION CHOICE TILES
 Action Choice tiles are only used in 
games with 3 or 4 players. These tiles 
allow players to select an action type 
different from the one chosen by the first player. Each Action Choice 
tile may be used only once per game; to use an Action Choice tile, 
simply return it to the game box. At the end of the game, unused 
Action Choice tiles are worth 3 VP each.

3.1.	 Human Resources
The Human Resources Department allows players 
to train employees and assign them to different 
Departments. When taking this action, a player must 
carry out the following steps, in order:
Calculate the total number of possible moves that player’s 
employees can make. Each active employee in Human Resources 
provides 3 moves 
. As the starting Human Resources 
Department features a permanent active employee (no other 
employee may be activated in that Workstation), each player is 
always entitled to a minimum of 3 moves.
	
Move active and/or inactive employees within the Company, up to 
the total number of possible moves. Employees can move onto or 
through any space or Department on their Company board, but 
each move must be made orthogonally (never diagonally). Moving 
an active (standing) employee will return it to an inactive (lying 
down) state. Each space or Department may hold any number of 
inactive employees.
Note: Inactive (laid down) employees are considered to be “in 
training.” A player may only activate employees at the end of their 
turn, after all other actions have been taken. 
Note: The total number of possible moves is calculated at the 
beginning of a player’s turn. Moving an active employee from 
Human Resources will not reduce a player’s total number of 
possible moves for that turn.
As Mary
Mary has two active employees in her Human Resources Department 
(1 employee figurine + the permanent employee), her employees can 
make up to 6 moves. She first moves an employee from her Company’s 
Lobby to her new Human Resources Department (2 moves), and then 
she moves two more employees to her Construction Department (for a 
total of 4 more moves). At the end of her turn, Mary
Mary can pay $6 to 
activate those three employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Players begin the game with a Lobby and 5 Departments, which are described below:

3.2.	 Management 
At the start of the game each Company has two 
Management Departments, which help to generate 
resources and build new Departments to expand the 
Company. 
The first Management Department, “Commerce and Finance,” 
provides one of the following benefits for each active employee in this 
Department:
Receive $3; 
Receive a goods cube; 
Send the employee on a Mission and receive $6; 
Send the employee on a Mission and receive 2 goods cubes.
The second Management Department, “Strategic Planning,” makes 
it possible to build new Departments. This Department provides the 
following for each active employee on this space:
Pay 1 goods cube and place a new Department on a free space 
(one that does not already contain a Department) of the player’s 
Company board that already contains at least one employee; OR 
Pay 2 goods cubes and place the new Department on any free 
space of the player’s Company board.
A player may place a new Department on any space of their Company 
board that does not already contain a Department. A Company may 
never contain two identical Departments.
Tip: There are two benefits to building a new Department in a 
space where an employee is already present: such a Department 
costs one fewer goods cube to build, and the employee can be 
activated at the end of the round, thus making the new 
Department operational for the next round.
Thomas has two active employees in his “Commerce and Finance” 
Management Department, and decides to take 2 goods cubes 
(1 per employee). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
He then uses the active employee in his “Strategic Planning” 
Management Department, spending the 2 goods cubes to build a new 
Construction Department which he then places on his Company board 
in an empty space of his choice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3.3.	 Construction
The Construction Department allows players to 
build Housing, Commerce, Industry, and Public 
Infrastructure projects.
When this action is chosen, the player who uses this Department:
Sends the employee used to take this action to the Mission area of 
the region where they wish to build, then
Pays 1 or 2 goods cubes (according to the type of project being 
built), then moves a disk from their corresponding project tab 
onto a construction site in the same region.
If a player builds a project in certain small cities (marked with 
), 
they will immediately receive the transport income indicated directly 
below their marker’s position on that region’s transportation track.
Reminder: When sending an employee on a Mission, you must send 
the same employee that you used to take this action.
Notes:
If more than one disk is available on a project tab, the player must 
build the one farthest to the right.
The project must be built:
	
-		 in the region in which the employee was sent on a Mission, 
AND
	
-		 on an unoccupied space of the game board, AND
	
-		 on a spot matching the chosen project type (with a symbol of 
Housing, Commerce, Industry or Public Infrastructure), OR in 
a small town (as these accept all types of projects).
The Construction action was chosen. Mary
Mary has 3 projects (2 Housing, 
1 Industry) that are ready to be built. Her Construction Department 
contains 3 employees that are ready to go on a Mission, but she only 
has two goods cubes available. 
 
So, Mary
Mary can build up to 2 Housing projects OR the Industry project 
(note the resource cost for construction shown next to each project tab). 
Choosing to build her Industry project in Chicago, she moves 
an employee to the Midwest Mission space, spends her two goods 
cubes, and places the disk from her Industry tab onto one of Chicago’s 
Industry locations. 
 
If Mary
Mary had built her Industry in Cincinnati instead, she would 
have immediately received her Transport income of 2 goods cubes, 
as indicated below her Transport disk. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

3.4.	 Research & 
Development (R&D)
The R&D Department allows players to improve 
their transportation networks and develop new 
Housing, Commerce, Industry, and Public 
Infrastructure construction projects.
When this action is chosen, each player will receive study points for 
each of their active employees in an R&D Department.
Study points can be spent in two different ways:
A player may any move one of their project tabs one place to the 
right and place a project disk on the tab’s newly revealed space 
(circle); OR
Move one of their transport disks on any regional transportation 
track one space to the right.
To use either of these options, a player must pay the indicated 
study point cost; these costs are indicated by these icons: 
Note: Players may advance their project tabs or transport disks 
more than one step in a turn. Any unused study points are lost at 
the end of the turn.
Note: If a player advances a project tab beyond its spaces marked 
for construction projects, they will receive the VP indicated on that 
tab at the end of the game; study points cannot be used on a fully-
advanced tab.
Tip: Specializing in R&D can be a great way to earn VP.
Tip: The gears on the project tabs show the rewards provided by 
each step of the tab, as well as the associated costs.
The R&D action was chosen. Mary
Mary has 2 active employees in her 
starting R&D Department, with 2 more in another R&D Department 
that she had built previously (shown below; that Department provides 4 
study points for each of its active employees), for a total of 3+3+4+4 = 
14 study points. 
 
Each step on a Project tab indicates how many study points must be 
spent to advance that tab to its next step. In this case, Mary
Mary spends 3 
study points to advance her Industry tab She shifts that tab one space to 
the right and places a new project marker on the space (circle) that was 
just revealed. 
 
Mary then decides to spend 4 more study points to advance this tab one 
more step; this tab will now earn Mary
Mary 3 VP at the end of the game. 
 
 
 
Finally, Mary
Mary spends her 7 remaining study points to advance her 
transport disk in the West region by three spaces. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4.	 Activate Employees 
& End of Round
At the end of the round, after all other actions have been taken, players 
may activate inactive employees in any of their Departments. To do so, 
the player must pay the cost indicated under an empty Workstation 
in the employee’s current Department and then stand the employee 
upright on that Workstation.
Once each player has taken their turn, the first player must move the 
action marker on the Timeline one space to the right, displacing the 
Timeline marker. Then, the first player must pass the Timeline marker 
and the locomotive to the next player in clockwise order; a new round 
can now begin.
5. 	End of the Game
5.1. 	 Connections between Major Cities
At the end of the game, players can each earn up to 36 VP for 
establishing connections between the 4 major cities of New York, 
Chicago, New Orleans, and San Francisco.
To gain these points, a player must have connected at least two major 
cities through a continuous line of their own construction disks. 
Players add the connection points 
they have earned and cross-reference 
the total with the lowest level of 
transport they have achieved across 
all connected regions. This scoring is 
illustrated here and on the game 
board. If a player has two separate, 
unconnected networks of connections 
between major cities (for instance, 
San Francisco to Chicago and New 
Orleans to New York), only the 
highest-scoring connection will count 
for that player’s score.
Mary (yellow) has managed to establish connections between 3 major 
cities: San Francisco, Chicago, and New York. Having reached the 
“railroad” level on each of these regions’ transportation tracks, she scores 
27 VP. 
 
 
For his part, Thomas (blue) has also managed to establish connections 
between 3 major cities: San Francisco, New Orleans, and Chicago.
However, as Thomas did not reach the “railroad” level in the West, 
he will only score 18 VP.
5.2. 	 Scoring
The game ends after 20 rounds. Once all 4 action markers have reached 
the final spaces of their respective Timelines and all players have 
finished their actions, scoring will occur. 
During the game, players may earn immediate VP (shown as 
) 
through income or certain Departments; all other VP are awarded 
at the end of the game (shown as 
).
A player’s final score includes their immediate VP, plus:
3 VP for an unused Action Choice tile;
1 VP for each active (standing) employee. Employees on Missions, 
and the permanent employee in the starting Human Resources 
department, do not count toward the total number of active employees;
2-3 VP for each Department they built during the game, depending 
on where it was built. Departments built in a Company’s topmost row 
are worth 3 VP each, while all others are worth 2 VP each. These VP 
values are noted on the Company boards, to the left of each row;
VP earned from their project tabs, to a maximum of 6 VP for 
Housing, 9 VP for Commerce, 12 VP for Industry, and 15 VP 
for Public Infrastructure;
VP earned from their connections between major cities, 
to a maximum of 36 VP, as explained to the left;
0-3 VP for each of their Construction projects built in a small, medium 
or major city, as indicated below each city on the game board;
VP earned from their donations (max. 12 VP per donation).
The player with the most points is the winner of the game! 
There are no tiebreakers; tied players must shake hands and savor their 
shared victory.

1.	 Transportation Tracks
Each region of the country has a transportation track that players can develop over the course of 
the game.
At the beginning of the game, players’ transportation tracks in the South, Midwest, and West 
start at the “Cart” level; in the East, they start at “Stagecoach.” By progressing along each region’s 
transportation track, players can reach “Railroad” level or beyond.
Whenever a player reaches the final box of a transportation track, they immediately receive a 
special reward of either 3 goods cubes or $10, depending on the track.
Note: Only one player may occupy the final box of each transportation track.
Transport Income
A player receives transport income when they recover at least one employee from 
a Mission. This income corresponds exactly to the position of that player’s disk on 
the Mission region’s transportation track, multiplied by the number of employees 
recovered; that player may not choose a different reward.
Tip: Players should not neglect transport bonuses, especially if they decide to focus their 
development in a particular region.
2.	 Donation 
Chart
“The man who dies rich, dies disgraced.” 
As we saw in the “Playing the Game” section, 
if a donation symbol is present on the space 
where the active player placed the Timeline 
marker, players may each make one donation 
- starting with the first player and going in 
clockwise order.
Donations represent players’ financial, 
material, and technical support of various 
philanthropic projects; they will help to 
increase players’ reputations, as well as 
those of their Companies.
To Make a Donation:
At the end of the game, donations earn 
VP according to certain factors. These may 
include projects built, Company development, 
accumulated wealth, and so on. 
A player’s 1st donation costs $5, paid 
to the supply. After making this payment, 
a player must place one of their disks on 
an unoccupied space of the donation chart 
(at the top of the game board). 
Each subsequent donation made by a player 
will cost that player an additional $5 ($10 
for their 2nd donation, $15 for their 3rd 
donation, and so on).
A maximum of 12 VP may be earned for 
each donation.
PART 3:	 TRANSPORTATION TRACKS, 
DONATIONS, & DEPARTMENTS

Players may make the following donations:
Education
Health
Department of the corresponding 
type in their Company, including 
starting Departments.
The player receives 2 VP for each 
of their construction disks built in 
the corresponding region.
The player receives 2 VP for each 
of their construction disks built 
in small cities, anywhere on the 
board.
The player receives 1 VP for each 
Department on their Company 
board, including starting 
Welfare
The player receives 7 VP.
The player may pay 1 goods cube 
to the supply in exchange for 2 
VP; this may be done up to 6 
times.
The player may pay $5 to the 
supply in exchange for 2 VP; this 
may be done up to 6 times.
The player may pay $5 and 
1 goods cube to the supply in 
exchange for 4 VP; this may 
be done up to 3 times.
The player receives 1 VP for each 
active (standing) employee in 
their Company.
NOTE: Payments made to 
earn Welfare donation bonuses 
can only be made during final 
scoring.
Human Rights
The player receives 4 VP for each 
Public Infrastructure project they 
have built.
Industry project they have built.
The player receives 2 VP for 
each Housing and/or Commerce 
project they have built.
region in which they have reached 
(or passed) the “Railroad” level on 
the transportation development 
track.
The player receives 2 VP for 
each donation they have made, 
including this one.

3.	 Departments
There are 16 different Departments that players can add to their Companies. Note that Departments 4, 8, 12, & 16 are colored differently from 
other Departments; this indicates that they provide passive or ongoing effects.
This Department is a powerful way to bring 
more flexibility in allocating employees. It 
also allows its owner to supplement their 
financial resources.
Mission area on the game board). The 
player then receives any combination of $ 
and employee moves, to a maximum of 8. 
(For example, a player could take $2 and 
6 employee moves, $4 and 4 employee 
moves, $7 and 1 employee move, etc., as 
long as the total is no greater than 8.)
1. Training and Partnerships
5. Purchasing 
9. Construction 
13. Advanced Research
2. Recruiting 
6. Sales 
10. Construction Outsourcing
14. Advanced Design
This Department makes it possible to 
produce a large quantity of goods quickly 
and free of charge.
Mission area on the game board); they may 
then take 3 goods cubes from the supply.
This Department provides new 
construction capabilities and reduces 
building costs.
Mission area on the game board). That 
player then pays only 1 goods cube to build 
a new project (even if it is an Industry 
or Public Infrastructure project, which 
normally cost 2 goods cubes).
This Department is an effective way to 
accelerate employees’ studies.
Mission area on the game board); the 
player then gains 8 study points.
This Department offers a very efficient way 
to reach the maximum of 15 employees.
Mission area on the game board). Then, 
that player must immediately place a 
new employee from their supply into 
their Company’s Lobby. This Department 
has no further effect once the player 
has recruited all 5 employees from their 
supply. Players may otherwise recruit 
new employees as part of taking 
income from their Housing tabs and 
from the East transportation track.
If a Company produces a lot of goods, this 
Department can sell them for the best 
price.
Rules: Each time a player uses this 
Department, they may pay 1 to 3 goods 
cubes to the supply. For each cube paid in 
this way, they receive $5.
This Department allows a player to build 
without sending an employee on a Mission.
Rules: Whenever this Department is used, 
the player may pay $4 and 1-2 goods cubes 
(according to the type of project being 
built) to build a new project anywhere on 
the board, without sending an employee 
on a Mission.
A new design Department improves a 
Company’s study efficiency.
Rules: Whenever this Department is used, 
its owner gains 4 study points for each 
active employee in the Department.

3. Safety and Quality 
7. Logistics 
11. Supply Chain
15. Charitable Giving 
4. New Lobby
8. Property Management 
12. Communications 
16. Telegraph Operators
This Department helps to ensure the 
quality of manufacturing processes and 
products, as well as ensuring employees’ 
safety and well-being.
Mission area on the game board). Then, 
the player receives 1 VP for every two 
active employees in their Company, 
rounded up. Employees on Missions are 
not considered to be active.
This Department improves a Company’s 
reliability and delivery time.
Rules: Each time a player uses this 
Department, they may pay 1 to 3 goods 
cubes to the supply. For each cube paid in 
this way, they receive $3 and 1 VP.
This Department makes it possible to buy 
goods at a reduced cost.
Rules: Whenever a player uses this 
Department, they may purchase up to 3 
goods cubes at a cost of $1 each.
This Department allows a player to 
duplicate a donation that another player 
has already made.
Rules: To use this Department, the 
player must send an active employee 
from this Department on a Mission (move 
it to a Mission area on the game board). 
After paying the appropriate donation 
cost, the player must then place one of 
their donation disks on top of another 
player’s donation disk, rather than on an 
unoccupied space; a player may not make 
the same donation twice.
A new Lobby allows faster access to 
certain Departments, minimizing the need 
for employee movement.
Rules: Once this Department has been 
built, it can hold new recruits and 
returning employees, which can be 
allocated between the two Lobbies as 
desired. This Department has an ongoing 
effect; it is the only Department that does 
not require an active employee to function.
This Department allows a player to 
immediately assign an employee to a newly 
built Department.
Rules: This Department has an ongoing 
effect as long as it contains an active 
employee. Whenever a player adds a new 
Department to their Company, they may 
immediately move one of their employees 
(active or inactive) from anywhere on their 
Department board to the new Department, 
in an inactive state. This employee can 
be activated at the end of the round, 
as normal.
This Department increases the efficiency 
of donations.
Rules: As long as this Department 
contains an active employee, it has an 
ongoing effect: the costs of the player’s 
new donations will be calculated on the 
basis of $3 per donation, rather than $5. 
This Department reduces transportation 
development costs.
Rules: As long as this Department 
contains an active employee, it has an 
ongoing effect: the player’s study point 
costs to progress along transportation 
tracks are reduced by 1 (to a minimum of 1).

PART 4: SOLO RULES
In a solo game, Andrew Carnegie himself will be the virtual opponent; it goes without saying that it will be difficult to win against him.
1.	 Setup
Player setup is identical to that of the normal game; do not forget 
step 11, which involves moving employees up to 6 steps on the 
Company board.
As in a 2-player game, only 16 Departments will be available to 
be built.
Once player setup is done, set the game up for Andrew.
Andrew does not use employees, VP, money, goods cubes, or study 
points during the game, and he does not use an individual Company 
board. Andrew always has enough money, resources, and study points.
Andrew starts the game with all of his disks available for 
construction - use the disks of any unused player color. Note that 
Andrew will not place a disk on the board during setup (as in step 
10 of a multiplayer game). 
Andrew places one disk on each of the 4 regional transportation 
tracks, as though he were a normal player.
3. 	 Align Andrew’s 5 victory-point cards in numerical order, with the 
0 VP card on the left and the 10VP card on the right.
4. 	 Shuffle the action cards to form a draw pile; place this to the left 
of the 0 VP card.
5. 	 Place the Timeline marker next to the Timeline, with the 
locomotive at the top-left of the first victory-point card (0 VP).
2.	 Playing the Game against Andrew
During the game, the player and Andrew will alternate in selecting each 
round’s Timeline row.
Use the locomotive to indicate who will choose the type of action to 
be taken each round. When the locomotive is placed at the top-left 
of Andrew’s 0VP card, it is the player’s turn to decide. Placed to the 
top-right (above Andrew’s portrait), Andrew will decide. Remember to 
move the locomotive at the end of each round.
The player will always choose the Timeline row for the first round 
(locomotive to the left).
A round in the solo game is divided into 5 steps:
2.1. 	 New Action Card
The player takes Andrew’s top action card and, without looking at it, 
places it face-down below the 0VP card.
2.2. 	 Choice of Action
2.2.1.	 Locomotive to the Left: Player’s Choice
If the locomotive is placed to the left, the player chooses the action for 
the round. They must place the Timeline marker on a Timeline row of 
their choice, immediately to the right of the action marker.
Tip: Before choosing a Timeline row, the player should look at 
two things: First, look at the back of that round’s action card, 
as it will indicate which Timeline row is currently Andrew’s 
strongest; avoiding this action can help to prevent Andrew 
from gaining too many points. Second, look at the top card of 
the draw pile, which indicates the Timeline row that Andrew 
will choose in the next round; this may be valuable in making 
decisions from round to round.
2.2.2. 	Locomotive to the Right: Andrew’s Choice
If the locomotive is to the right (above Andrew’s portrait), the symbol 
on the back of the action card indicates the Timeline row that Andrew 
has chosen for the round. As in the normal game, place the Timeline 
marker to the right of this action’s marker.
Note: When an action marker reaches the last space of its Timeline, 
Andrew will place the Timeline marker to the right of that action 
marker. In addition, Andrew will also turn over the action marker 
on the Timeline row immediately below the chosen row (or Human 
Resources, if R&D is the chosen Timeline row). However, the 
turned-over action marker must be one that can still move forward. 
If necessary, instead turn over the action marker on the next row 
below. This turned-over action marker will trigger an event as 
though it were the chosen action. At the end of the round, turn 
this marker face-up and advance it one space along its row.

2.3. 	 Andrew’s Turn
Flip the current round’s action card face-up.
2.3.1. 	Event
If the Timeline marker is placed on a Mission area, nothing happens for 
Andrew. 
If the Timeline marker is placed on a donation symbol, Andrew puts 
a disk on the space of the donation board indicated at the top of the 
current round’s action card. If the indicated space is already occupied, 
or if Andrew has run out of disks, he will not place a disk; shift 
Andrew’s action card one space to the right.
2.3.2. 	Resolve Andrew’s Action
Human Resources
Slide the current round’s action card to the right by the number of 
spaces indicated;
Management
Andrew takes a tile from each Department whose number appears 
on the current round’s action card. For each Department noted on 
the card but not available, slide Andrew’s current action card one 
space to the right;
Construction
Place one of Andrew’s disks on the leftmost construction site of 
each city named on the current round’s action card. For each disk 
that cannot be placed, slide Andrew’s current action card one 
space to the right;
Research & Development (“R&D”)
Move Andrew’s transport disk in the region indicated on the action 
card to the right by 1-3 spaces, as indicated. For each move that 
cannot be made, slide the current round’s action card one space 
to the right.
Note: Remember that only one player’s disk may occupy the last 
box of any transportation track.
Note: Andrew cannot advance a card further than the rightmost 
card (10 VP). If an affect would cause an action card to advance 
further, it stays at the rightmost card (10 VP).
2.4. 	 Player’s Turn 
The player resolves events as in the normal game: Take Income and/or 
Make a Donation. 
Note: As in the normal game, if the Timeline marker is placed 
on the last (rightmost) position of the Timeline, the player may 
choose to do one or both of the following: Take Income and/or 
Make a Donation.
Then, as in the normal game, the player may use any of their 
Departments that correspond to that round’s Timeline row. 
2.5. 	 End of Round
The player may activate inactive employees in any of their 
Employees are activated as in the main game, by paying the cost 
indicated under an empty Workstation in the employee’s current 
Department and standing activated employees upright on their new 
Workstations.
The player must then move the action marker on the Timeline by one 
space to the right (displacing the Timeline marker).
Turn Andrew’s current action card face-down, and place it under the 
VP card that it has reached. If Andrew’s action card has not moved, 
place it under the “0 VP” card. 
Finally, move the locomotive from one side of the “0 VP” card to the 
other.
A new round can now begin.
3.	 End of Game 
and Scoring
When the game ends, calculate Andrew’s score as follows:
Each of Andrew’s action cards are worth an amount of VP 
according to their positions along the row of VP cards;
Any Department tiles that Andrew has acquired are worth 
2 VP each;
For each of Andrew’s transport disks that reached the last position 
of a transportation track, Andrew earns 6 VP (Andrew does not 
earn points for connected cities);
Andrew’s construction disks are each worth the VP of the 
cities where they were built (from 0-3 VP, as indicated on the 
game board);
Andrew’s donations are scored according to what the player did 
during the game. For example, the player built 5 projects in the 
West; if Andrew had placed the donation disk that awards 2 VP 
for each project built in that region, Andrew would score 10 VP 
(5 x 2).
Tip: Players may find it unfair that Andrew receives points 
for what they have done during the game, but businessmen of 
Andrew’s caliber don’t care. Once Andrew has placed a donation 
disk, the player knows that they can no longer make that 
particular donation and may thus wish to avoid taking further 
actions that would reward Andrew.
Compare Andrew’s score with that of the player; the highest total score 
wins!
“No man becomes rich unless he enriches others.”
 
CREDITS
GAME DESIGN: Xavier Georges 
ARTWORK: Ian O’Toole 
PROJECT MANAGERS: Arno Quispel, 
Rafaël Theunis 
EDITOR: Michael Schemaille 
DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT: Dan Adams
A word from the author: I would like 
to extend special thanks to Sébastien 
Dujardin, Paul Mulders, Stéphane Gobert, 
Etienne Goetynck, Marc Dave and Maryline 
Dekens, whose help have been invaluable 
to the development of this game. I would 
also like to thank the many playtesters, 
including: Etienne, Stéphane, Johan, Nell, 
Pepe, Toni, Luis, Jean, Benoît, Dimitri, 
Anne-Cat, Pascal, Sébastien, Renaud, 
Miguel, Mathieu, Marc, Jean-Philippe, Eric, 
Elizabeth, Stéphane, Frédéric, Thomas, 
Bernard, Fanny, Laurent, and far too many 
others to name. 
Artwork playtesters: Celine Gaudin 
and Christophe Gaudin
If you experience any issues with this 
product please contact the 
vendor where you purchased 
this game, or contact our 
customer service at www.
quined.nl/contact/

Turn Reference
Setup Reference
Icon Reference
TYPES
MISSION 
SPACES
EMPLOYEES
DEPARTMENTS
DONATIONS
MAP
PROJECT TYPES
TRANSPORT 
TRACKS
RESOURCES 
& MONEY
INCOME
HUMAN RESOURCES
EMPLOYEE ON 
ACTIVE EMPLOYEE
DONATION
CONSTRUCTION DISK 
ON MAP
GAIN A RESOURCE
?
MAJOR CITY 
CONNECTION POINTS
MOVE AN EMPLOYEE 
ONE SPACE (NO 
DIAGONALS) ON 
DEPARTMENT BOARD. 
MAY END ON ANY 
SPACE. EMPLOYEE 
BECOMES INACTIVE.
CONSTRUCTION DISK 
ON SMALL TOWN 
SPACE
INCOME FROM 
CURRENT SPACE ON 
TRANSPORT TRACK
STUDY
STUDY POINTS 
AVAILABLE TO SPEND
STUDY POINT COST
-1
DISCOUNT ON STUDY 
POINT COST
VICTORY POINTS
IMMEDIATE VP
GAME-END VP
INCOME FROM 
REVEALED SPACES 
ON PROJECT TABS
MAKE A DONATION
PLACE A DONATION 
DISK ON A SPACE 
CONTAINING ANOTHER 
PLAYER’S DISK
PUBLIC 
INFRASTRUCTURE
INDUSTRY
COMMERCE
HOUSING
DEPARTMENT WITH AN 
ACTIVE EMPLOYEE
DEPARTMENT WITH AN 
MOVE AN EMPLOYEE TO 
THIS DEPARTMENT
CONSTRUCT A NEW 
DEPARTMENT ON 
A SPACE WITH NO 
CONSTRUCT A NEW 
DEPARTMENT ON 
A SPACE WITH NO 
DEPARTMENT AND AN 
GAIN ONE NEW 
EMPLOYEE FROM 
SUPPLY TO LOBBY
EMPLOYEES ARRIVING 
INTO LOBBY
TAKE EMPLOYEE FROM 
(RETURN TO LOBBY)
PLACE EMPLOYEE ON 
TAKE ONE OR MORE 
EMPLOYEES FROM 
(RETURN TO LOBBY)
MANAGEMENT
CONSTRUCTION
RESEARCH & 
DEVELOPMENT
TRANSPORT TRACK
CART
STAGECOACH
RAILROAD
SPEND A RESOURCE
SPEND MONEY
GAIN MONEY
$?
x
:
+
"This game only loosely evokes Andrew 
Carnegie's achievements. While he was 
incredibly successful, Carnegie's business 
methods have also been the subject of some 
controversy. Whatever your stance, there can be 
no question that Carnegie was an important 
figure in American history." - Xavier Georges
-