Contents
• Rules in English, Spanish and French
• 15 board segments representing territories of the
Empire. (Notice that the segments, of 3 different
shapes, can be easily fitted together to form larger
territories - a significant element of the game)
• 5 sets of discs each numbered 1 to 5 
(2 black, 2 white, and 1 gray)
• 4 courts: small rectangular boards with the picture of a
castle and along one edge a row of dots in the 5 colors
• 2 cotton bags
- one contains over 200 small wooden cubes
representing the 5 paladin clans in the 5 colors
- the other contains:
• 1 large yellow figure representing the Emperor
Carolus Magnus
• 4 dice with 5 faces in the 5 colors; the 6th face has
a crown
• 5 clan markers (wooden cylinders) in the 5 colors
• 30 castles in 3 colors (black, white, and gray)
Because of the new and unusual features of the game,
we recommend that you first play the game with 2
players. If you choose to play your first game with 3 or
4 players, first read the rules for the 2 player version.
The differences in the rules for the 3 and 4 player
versions are shown at the end.
The game for 2 players
Preparation
• Place the 15 territories in a circle (leaving small empty
spaces between them).
• Place the Emperor on one of the territories.
• Empty the bag with the paladin cubes in the middle of
the circle of territories.
• Place the 5 colored clan markers in the middle of the
circle of territories.
• Take 3 cubes of each color from the middle of the circle
of territories and place them at random on the
territories, 1 per territory.
• Each player selects a color and takes a set of 10
castles and a set of 5 numbered discs in that color.
• Each player takes a court board.
• Return equipment not used in the 2 player game
to the box: 10 castles, 3 sets of numbered discs,
2 court boards, and 1 die.
• Each player throws the 3 dice twice and 1 die
once (total 7 dice) to select his initial paladin
reserve (when a crown is thrown, the player
chooses one of the 5 colors). The player places
the 7 paladin cubes near his court. 
Place your equipment openly in front of you: reser ve of
7 cubes, 10 castles, 5 discs (face up), and 1 court
board. Leave space to the right of your court to place
paladins during the game. 
(see game in progress in figure 1)
Charlemagne has requested that his contentious heirs (the players) build castles for his security and comfort in
the territories he likes to visit in the course of his travels. To do this they are forced to compete for the services of
the five clans of paladins (the five colors of cubes), through whom the Emperor rules his lands.
figure 1
LEOCOLOVINI
!

Playing the game
Each round has an Opening Phase followed by an Action
Phase. In the Opening Phase, the players decide the turn
order for this round and how far each may move the
Emperor. In the Action Phase, each player, in the turn
order determined in the Opening Phase, performs 3
actions in the order shown: 
1. plays 3 paladins from his reserve,
2. moves the Emperor (and resolves ownership of the
territory where the Emperor stops), and
3. throws the dice to replenish the 3 paladins that he
played. 
Opening Phase
Each player, in turn order, chooses one of his numbered
discs and plays it face up just inside the circle of
territories. The numbers on the two discs must be
different. Players choose a starting player for the first
round by lot. In subsequent rounds, the starting player is
the player who had placed the lower number in the
previous round. Players play their discs so they slightly
cover the discs they played in previous rounds so all
discs may be seen with the latest disc on top (see figure
1). If both players have the same numbered disc when
each has just one left, the first player’s number is
considered the lower one. After every fifth round, each
player picks up his 5 discs to use them again in the
following opening phases. 
The numbers on the discs have two purposes: they
indicate the order in which the players will play with the
lower number playing first, and they indicate up to how
far the player moves the Emperor.
Example: Albert plays his number 3 disc and Bob his
number 2 disc. Bob is first in the action phase and
moves the Emperor 1 or 2 spaces during that part of
his turn. Albert plays second and moves the Emperor 1,
2, or 3 spaces in that part of his turn.
Action Phase
The players take their turns in the action phase in the
order chosen in the Opening Phase. First, the player who
played the lower numbered disc, and second, the other
player.
1. Play 3 paladin cubes
The player plays 3 of the 7 paladins in his reserve to his
court or the territories. The 3 may be played as the
player chooses.
The player may split the paladins as he chooses among
his court and the territories. He may play all in his court,
all in one or more territories, or any combination that
suits him. Paladins that remain in a player’s reserve are
not in play. Only those played by the players are in the
game and, once played, may not be moved.
When a player plays paladins to his court, he plays them
next to the dots matching the color of the paladin
played. A player gains control of a paladin color by
having more paladins in his court of that color than his
opponent has in his court. If both players have the same
number, control remains with the player who had it
before. When a player gains control of a color, he takes
the matching colored clan marker and puts it on the
corresponding color dot of his court. This indicates that
he controls all paladins of that color in the territories.
When a player plays paladins in territories, he may play
one or more in a single territory or play just one in each
of one or more territories. A player plays paladins in a
territory to strengthen or change control in the territory.
By adding paladins of a color he controls, a player can
gain control in a territory and then move the Emperor
there to place a castle of his color. Such a move is risky
as it is difficult to retain control of a color. The same
paladins that enable a player to take a territory may be
used later by his opponent to take it away from him.
Also, every paladin played by a player in a territory is
one less paladin played in his court for control of the
color. Thus, players often wait to play paladins in
territories until later in that game when adding paladins
can be decisive in determining the winner of the game.
2. Move the Emperor 
The player moves the Emperor clockwise around the
circle of territories. When moving the Emperor, each
territory counts as a step. The player moves the Emperor
at least one step, but no more steps than the number on
the disc he played in the Opening Phase. The players
examine the territory where the Emperor stops to see
who controls the territory. The player who controls the
region may be able to place a castle there (see details in
“Castles and Territories”).
Example: In game preparation, the players place one
paladin in each of the 15 territories. On Anna’s first
turn she gains control of red by playing a red paladin
at her court. She takes the red clan marker to indicate
her control of the red paladins. She then moves the
Emperor to a territory with a red paladin and places
one of her castles there. Early in the game, placing
castles is easy and players often build castles on every
turn. Later in the game, this is much more difficult.
3. Replenish the paladins 
The player rolls the 3 dice and takes 3 paladins from the
center, matching the colors rolled on the dice, to replace
the ones he played. When a player rolls a cr own, he may
select any color paladin. 
If there are no paladins left of one of the colors in the
center, each player returns an equal number of that color
from his court to the center.
This concludes the player’s 3 actions. When both players
have taken their turns, a new round begins with another
Opening Phase started by the player who played the
lower number in the previous turn.
Castles and territories
Castles
To build a castle in a territor y, a player must control a
majority of the paladins in the territory and the Emperor
must stop there. 
Majorities are obvious at the start, when there is only
one paladin in each territory. Later when players try to
invade and take over each other’s territories,
determining control of a region is more difficult.
To determine this, each player counts the paladins of the
colors he controls. The one who controls the most
paladins in a region without a castle, builds a castle. No
castle is built in case of a tie. If the Emperor stops in a
territory in which the paladins are controlled by neither
player, which may happen in the early stages of a game,
no castle is built.
Taking over the opponent’s territories
Possession of a territory may not be permanent. The
shift in the control of a paladin color from one player to
the other or the placement of new paladins in one of the
territories, can change control of the territory.
When the Emperor stops in a territory in which there is
a l ready one or more castles, players check to see who
has the majority and include the castles in the count as if
they we re paladins of the player whose castles they are .
If the majority has not changed or if there is a tie, the
territory is unchanged and no castle is built. A player
does not add a castle to a region that already has one. If
the majority in a territory has changed, all castles are
removed and replaced with castles belonging to the
player now in the majority in the territor y.
A common situation for a takeover is shown in figure
2. The black castle indicates that the black player
controlled the territory when the Emperor last stopped
there. He controlled the 2 green paladins and the
white player the red one. If the white player gains
control of green in his court, he also gains the majority
in the territory: 3 to 1 (the 3 paladins vs. the castle). If
the Emperor now stops there, the white player would
claim the territory and replace the black castle with a
white one. For a more complex takeover, see figure 6.
figure 2

Merging territories
One of the most important features of the game occurs
when a player builds castles in adjacent territories.
When a player builds a castle in a territory (either a new
castle or a takeover) and has castles in one or both of
the adjacent territories, the adjacent territories with
castles of the same color are merged into one large
territory. This larger territory contains all the paladins
and castles of the former territories. A newly merged
territory is not checked for a change in majority.
These merged territories are stronger and more difficult
to take over than single territories because all the
castles in them are counted as paladins. This also makes
them very desirable targets. When a merged territory is
taken over, all the castles in the territory are replaced by
castles of the player who took over the territory.
Once merged, a territory cannot be divided and is
regarded from then on as a single territory containing
the paladins and castles of the former territories. The
merged territory also counts as just one step when
moving the Emperor: a move to a merged territory
counts as 1 step, just as if it were a single territory. If a
player builds a castle in a territory adjacent to one of his
merged territories, the territories are merged into an
even larger territory.
In figure 3, the Emperor has stopped in territor y B,
which the white player takes over from the black
player (it is actually the territory in figure 2 after the
takeover). As the white player has castles on A and C,
he merges the three territories into one.
He may fit them together any way he 
wants. The new territory contains the
3 old territories, 6 paladins, and 3
castles as shown in figure 4.
At the courts: keep an eye on your opponent’s
reserves
During the game, players can improve their chances for
success by watching their opponent’s 7 reserve paladins
as they represent his “potential” for his next turn. 
For example, figure 5 shows the two players’courts
and their reserve paladins. Currently, the white player
controls red (7 to 6) and pink (8 to 5) while the black
player controls blue (8 to 6), yellow (6 to 5) and green
(5 to 3). It is the white player’s turn. He sees that his
control of pink is safe, for the time being, but that the
one of red is in danger: the black player has 3 red
paladins in his reserve that he could use overtake the
white player’s 7 reds on his next turn. Fortunately for
the white player, he has 2 red paladins in his reserve
and can protect his control of red by adding them to
his court, giving him a lead of 9 to 6. This would
protect his red control, at least for now. The white
player also can take over control of yellow from the
black player by adding 2 yellow paladins to his court.
Which is better? Usually, defense is better.
To make counting easier, the players have placed a
small gap after each fifth cube. 
figure 4
figure 3
figure 5
A
B
C

Counterattack!
Of course, defense is not always the best answer. Near
the end of the game, a player may want to attack his
opponent’s control to effect a dramatic turnover.
Figure 6 shows a portion of the territories in a game
corresponding to the courts shown in figure 5. It is still
the white player’s turn and he is in a poor position! 
The Emperor is at A. The black player has two large
territories at A and C, while the white player has two
small territories at B and D. If it were the black
player’s turn, the game would be practically over. The
black player could move the Emperor to B (where he
has already the majority, despite the white player’s
castle), and unite A, B and C in a huge territory topped
by 6 black castles. Fortunately for the white player, it
is not the black player’s turn. The white player played
his 3 disc and can move the Emperor 1, 2, or 3 steps.
Moving him 1 step would be suicide, so he considers
reaching temporary safety by moving the Emperor 3
steps to D. But the white player sees a better choice.
The black player has a majority of 9 to 3 at C, but this
includes 3 ye l l ow paladins, which is a weakness and
the white player has 3 yellow paladins in his reser ve.
So, he plays 2 of these at his c o u rt and gains control of
ye l l ow. Then, he plays his 3rd ye l l ow paladin at C a n d
m oves the Emperor there. This allows the white player
to take over the territory with a majority of 7 to 6 (4
ye l l ow, 2 red and 1 pink vs. 2 green, 1 blue and 3
castles)! He removes the 3 black castles and replaces
them with 3 of his white castles, joining B and D to C.
From the brink of defeat, the white player has gained
control of a large 5 castle territory!
End of the game
The game ends when a player has 10 castles in play in
the territories. That player wins! The game also ends
when there are fewer than 4 territories (most
of which are probably
merged territories)on the
table. The winner is the
player who has the most
castles in play in the
territories at that time.
The game for 3 players
The game for 3 players is the most demanding
because it contains more elements that must be
watched. Thus, we recommend you play the 2 player
version at least once before playing the game with 3
players.
The rules for 3 players are the same as those for 2,
except for the following:
• Players use 8 castles of each color (not 10), 4 dice, 3
courts, and 3 sets of discs (one of each color). Return
2 castles of each color, 1 court, and the 2 remaining
sets of discs to the box.
• The goal is to build 8 castles (not 10).
• Each player begins with a reserve of 9 paladins (not 7)
and, therefore, begins by throwing 9 dice (3 x 3).
• On each turn, a player plays 4 paladins (not 3), and,
therefore, replenishes 4 at the end of each turn,
throwing the 4 dice to do so.
• When checking the majority in a territory, it need only
be relative, not absolute (a player must have more
than each of the other two).
• The order of play is that of the numbers on the 3 discs.
This is also the order players will play their discs in the
next turn.
The game for 4 players
The game for 4 players is the most exciting and
dynamic version, often allowing a continuous string of
surprises and dramatic turnovers.
The players play in partnerships, 2 against 2. Partners
may sit opposite or next to each other. The rules are the
same as the game for 2 players, except for the following:
• The 2 partners use the same set of 10 castles, but
otherwise each player uses his own equipment as in
the game for 2 (partners use discs of the same color).
Return 1 die, the 10 gray castles, and 5 gray discs to
the box.
• The 4 players play in the order of the numbers on the
discs they play; it may, therefore, happen that partners
play next to each other in turn order.
• Each player has his own court where he lines up his
own paladins from his own reserve. There may be no
passing of paladins from one court to the other.
• Colors are controlled by individual players not
partnerships. A color can only be controlled by one
player: the one who has lined up most paladins of that
color in his court. The paladins in the two partners’
courts are not added together for partnership control.
• The territories, however, are jointly controlled by the
partners. When checking for a majority in a territory,
the total of paladins controlled by one partnership is
compared to the total controlled by the other
partnership. This is the criterion used for building
castles and for taking over territories.
• Players decide before the game whether partners are
allowed to talk to each other. In a “serious” game
there should be no talk. Remember that “unserious”
games are often the best.
Strategic hints:
• Partnership play: if your partner
controls a color at his court, do not
play paladins of that color at your
own court, but consider playing
them in the territories.
• Order of play: this order is even
more important in a 4 player game than in
the games for 2 and 3 players. In certain
situations, playing in succession can be
decisive. Sometimes, it is even possible to play 4 times
in a row (both playing last in one turn, then first in the
next one).
• Be alert in defending your territories. In a 4 player
game, territories are relatively easier to take over
because of the greater number of paladins that are
played in the territories and the chance of players in a
partnership playing successively.
figure 6
A
B
C
D