1 game board
	 9 punch-out boards:
	 - 84 building tiles (light green backs)
	 - 39 building tiles (dark green backs)
	 - 16 frame parts
	 - 24 gold coins 
	 - 18 bread tokens
	 - 36 banderoles
	 - 1 starting player token (“hand”)
	 4 punch-out boards:
	 - 4 building boards
	 - 4 overview boards
	 150 cards:
	 - 60 scoring cards
	 - 24 fountain cards
	 - 66 victory point cards (1, 3, 5, 10, 25 points)
	 44 wooden pieces:
	 - 4 meeples (1 “patrician” in each player color)
	 - 20 discs (5 in each player color)
	 - 20 wares (5 grapes, 5 herbs, 5 chicken, 5 fish)
 
Rome, 1 B.C. As influential patricians, you set out to improve your city districts. 
Profitable buildings and beautiful landscapes will make sure your part of the 
city will prosper. 
While you do, make sure to adhere to the motto of “carpe diem”. Seize the 
day by harvesting grapes and catching fish, then sell these wares on the 
market to make money. Build proper dwellings for your servants and they 
will be more diligent and more productive. And don’t forget your own villa! It 
will gain you a lot of prestige.
Turn by turn you will try to get various building tiles to add to your district, 
and build more and more buildings and landscapes. Over four scoring periods 
your accomplishments will be turned into victory points.
The player with the most victory points at the end of the game is the winner.
Introduction
Game Contents
Players are wealthy builders in 
ancient Rome
In an elaborate turn structure 
players get more and more 
building tiles that they have to 
integrate into their district 
After each phase there is a 
scoring period
If you are reading this manual for the first time, we recommend ignoring the bold text in 
the margins. They serve as short reference for players who are already familiar with the rules 
and want a refresher to get into the game faster, even after a longer break.
INTRODUCTION
The player with the most 
victory points wins the game

Before the first game, all pieces have to be carefully punched out of the boards.
Place the game board in the center of the table.
Distribute to each player:
	 - 	4 random frame parts – Assemble them piece by piece in random order 
	 	 into a square frame and place them in front of you.
	 - 	1 random building board – Place it in the frame so that the shovel in the 
	 	 center is rotated toward you. This is your “city district”. Your goal is to 
	 	 build on it in a way that gains you the most victory points.
	 - 9 banderoles – Distribute them on the nine banderole spaces on your 
	 	 building board.
	 - 1 overview board – Place it next to your district. This serves as quick	
	 	 reference for the main game rules and as storage for game materials.
	 - 1 meeple (“patrician”) in a color of your choice. Place it on any of the 
	 	 seven semi-circular spaces in the center of the game board that is 
	 	 unoccupied.
	 - 5 wooden discs in the color of your meeple. Put them on your storage 
	 	 space for now.
	 - Separate the 60 scoring cards into piles according to their backs, shuffle 
	 	 them, and put them next to the game board in four face down piles. Take 
	 	 a number of cards from each pile, depending on the number of players 
	 	 (see sidebar), e.g. for 3 players, that’s 2 A and 2 C cards, plus 3 B and 3 D 	
	 	 cards.
	 	
	 	 These 8, 10 or 12 cards (for 2, 3 or 4 players) are shuffled thoroughly and 
	 	 placed one by one face up on the card spaces on the left side of the game 
	 	 board. In a 2-player game, don’t place any cards on the corner spaces. In 
	 	 a 3-player game, 2 opposing corner spaces stay empty. In a 4-player game, 
	 	 all 12 spaces are used.
	 	
	 	 Return the remaining scoring cards to the box, they won’t be used this 
	 	 game.
Game Setup
GAME SETUP
Distribute to each player:
-	 4 frame parts 
	 (assemble to a square)
Set out the game board
Prepare the scoring cards 
according to player numbers 
and place them face up on the 
game board:
2 players => 8 cards: 
2 A + 2 B + 2 C + 2 D
3 players => 10 cards:
2 A + 3 B + 2 C + 3 D
4 players => 12 cards: 
3 A + 3 B + 2 C + 4 D
	 	
	
	 	
2 with 2 players 
	 	
2 with 3 players
	 	
3 with 4 players 
- 	1 building board 
	 (place in the frame)
- 	9 banderoles (place on 
	 banderole spaces on building 
	 board)
- 	1 overview board
- 	1 meeple (place on unoccupied 
	 semi-circular space on 
	 game board)
- 	5 discs: 1 on the banderole 
	 bar, 4 on the storage space

	 - 	Shuffle the 24 fountain cards and place them in a face down 
	 	 pile next to the game board.
	 - Sort the 66 victory point cards into five piles according 
	 	 to their point value.
	 - Separate the light and dark green building tiles, shuffle them and place 
	 	 them in face down piles next to the game board. 
	 	 Place four randomly selected light green building tiles on each large square 
	 	 blueprint tile space on the game board (= a total of 28 tiles). Turn them all
	 	 face up. Place one randomly selected dark green building tile on each 	
	 	 of the square seal spaces on the bottom margin of the game board. 
	 	 Turn them all face up.
	 - Place the 20 wares (5 each of grapes, herbs, fish, and chicken) as well as 
	 	 all coins and bread tokens next to the game board.
	 - The player who was born farthest from 1 B.C. gets the 
	 	 starting player token. They put one of their 5 discs on the 
	 	 0 space of the banderole bar in the top margin of the game 
	 	 board. The other players follow in clockwise order and place 
	 	 their discs on top of the others.
	 	 In addition, the starting player gets victory point cards with a total value 	
	 	 of 8. In the 2-player game, the other player gets 9 victory points. In the 	
	 	 4-player game, the other players in turn order get 9, 10, and 11 
	 	 Attention: The 3-player game is special: The starting player gets 8 victory 
	 	 points, the next player 9, and the third player gets 13 victory points!
- 	Distribute starting player 
	 token and victory points 
	 as follows: 8 for the starting 
	 player, 9 for the second 
	 player, 10 and 11 for the 
	 remaining players (for the 
	 2- and 4-player games)
- 	Set out the face down pile 
	 of fountain cards
- 	Set out 5 piles of victory point 
	 cards
- 	Place 4 light green building 
	 tiles on each of the seven 
	 large square spaces. 
- Place one dark green tile on 	 	
	 each of the 11 seal spaces
- 	Set out all wares, coins, and 
	 bread tokens
	 Attention: For the 3-player 
	 game, distribute 8, 9, and 13 
	 victory points!
Example “city district”
Game board setup 
for a 3-player game

„For four full weeks, we work diligently around the clock to 
‘seize the day’ as best we can.“
The game consists of four phases of seven rounds each.
After each phase there is a scoring period. After the fourth scoring period, 
there is a final scoring period. This ends the game, and the player with the 
most victory points is the winner.
The starting player starts with their turn, then the other players follow in turn 
order. Once the last player has completed their turn, the current round ends. 
After exactly 7 rounds all 28 building tiles have been picked, and the phase 
ends.
Each turn, the current player moves their meeple onto one of the oppo-
site semi-circular spaces. They pick one of the building tiles located on the 
adjacent 
blueprint 
space and immedia-
tely integrate it into 
their district (see page 
5: “Building Rules”). 
“Opposite” 
spaces 
are connected to the 
original space by black 
lines. At the beginning 
of their next turn, the 
player moves from 
their current space 
along a black line to 
one of the two oppo-
site spaces, and so on.
In addition, the following rules apply:
	 - Meeples may move onto a space that is already occupied.
	 - Meeples must be moved every turn, they cannot stay where they are. 
	 	 (Exception: see “Baker” on page 7.) 
	 - After moving, the current player must select a tile. If they do not want to 
	 	 or cannot integrate that tile into their district, they place it face down on 
	 	 the storage space on their overview board, where it stays until the end of 
	 	 the game.
	 - If – after a few rounds – a player moves onto a semi-circular space without 
	 	 a building tile next to it, they immediately move again until their meeple 
	 	 moves onto a space with at least one tile next to it. Each of these extra 	
	 	 moves must follow the movement rules. 
Playing the Game 
The current player must place 
their meeple on either of 
the two opposite spaces and 
select a tile from next to it to 
integrate into their district
Playing the Game 
The game consists of
4 phases of 7 rounds
At the end of each phase: 
Scoring occurs
If there are no more building 
tiles left, they must continue 
moving (also allowing the 
player to move back to their
starting space)

Building Rules
Attention! Important for the 2- and 3-player games:
In the 2-player game, the two remaining building tiles are removed from 
a space as soon as the second tile has been picked. In the 3-player game, 
the last remaining building tile is removed from a space as soon as the 
penultimate tile has been picked. Return the removed tiles to the box, they 
won’t be used for the remainder of the game.
Players move their meeple for exactly seven rounds until all building tiles 
have been picked (or removed) from the game board and the first phase 
ends, followed by the first scoring period (see page 8: “Scoring”).
The first tile selected by a player must be placed on the shovel space. All sub-
sequent tiles must be placed adjacent (not diagonally!) to a tile that is already 
on the building board. The frame does not count as a tile!
Tiles must be placed in a way that all its sides match each adjacent tile. There 
is no “top” or “bottom”, you may rotate it as you like.
“Matching” means that every adjacent side to each other must match. Pond 
must touch pond, grass must touch grass, villa must touch villa, yellow dwel-
ling must touch yellow dwelling, etc. Non-matching combinations are not 
allowed! The frame counts as ‘grass’, i.e. you may only put tiles with a grass 
side adjacent to a frame piece.
If a player places a building tile on a space with a banderole, they first remove 
the banderole completely from the game, then move their disc one space on 
the banderole bar. If that space is already occupied, they place their disc on 
top of the other disc(s).
In most cases, whenever a player completes a building or a landscape, they 
immediately get a reward. In addition, completed buildings and landscapes 
help during scoring and may gain additional victory points during the final 
scoring period at the end of the game (more info can be found on the over-
view board). 
First tile on the shovel space
All subsequent tiles are placed 
adjacent to matching tiles
When placing a tile on a 
banderole space: Move 
1 space on banderole bar
2 players: Always remove 
the final 2 tiles
3 players: Always remove 
the final tile
Building Rules
correct but incomplete
correct and completed
wrong

Villas 
…can be any size. A completed villa consists of at 
least two adjacent tiles, where none of those tiles 
have an “opening”. Completing a villa doesn’t 
grant a reward, but completed villas gain victory 
points at the end of the game (see page 11: “End 
of the Game”). Players may own multiple complete and incomplete villas. 
The Four Types of Landscape
A completed landscape consists of 2-4 tiles of the same type. Whenever a 
player completes a landscape, they are immediately rewarded with a one 
time bonus of wares from the supply. The bonus is always the number of 
used tiles minus 1. Place the wares on your storage space. A player may own 
multiple complete and incomplete landscapes of any type and size. 
Depending on the type of landscape, the player gets:
The Four Types of Dwellings 
A dwelling always consists of exactly two halves of the same color. A player 
may own multiple complete and incomplete dwellings of any type.
Whenever a player completes a dwelling, that player immediately receives a 
one-time bonus, depending on the roof color:
• Merchant: 
The player returns all their wares (fish, herbs, 
etc.) to the supply and gets that many coins plus 1 
additional coin from the supply. They place them 
on their storage space. If that player doesn’t own 
any wares to trade in, they just get the additional 
coin from the supply.
	 Example: Nick trades in 1 fish, 1 chicken, and 2 grapes and receives 5 coins.
During scoring, coins can be used as wildcards to replace any ware (fish, herb, 
etc.) (see page 9: “The Scoring Cards”).
Villas …
- can be any size
- help during scoring 
	
- when completed, gain victory 
 points at the end of the game
Landscapes …
- consist of 2-4 tiles
- are rewarded with grapes, 
	 herbs, chicken, and fish
	 (number of tiles minus 1!)
This 3-tile pond rewards 2 fish.
Dwellings …
- consist of 2 tiles
- grant the following rewards:
 
Wares = coins + 1
Coins = wildcards 
=

• Baker: 
The player takes 2 bread tokens from the supply 
and puts them on their storage space.
Bread can be used for two different purposes:
1.) At the beginning of a player’s turn, they may pay one bread token into the 
supply to move their meeple against the rules to any space (or remain where 
they are!) and pick a tile from there.
2.) During scoring, a player may pay three bread tokens to fulfill the requi-
rements of one of the two adjacent scoring cards. That player receives the 
rewards of that card without meeting the actual requirements shown on 
the card. This is true for the “green” requirements (where you need to own 
something) as well as the “red” ones (where you have to pay something). 
(More info on page 9, “The Scoring Cards”.)
Note: If a player receives bread as a reward and then owns 3 bread, they may 
immediately use them during the same scoring period.
• Administrator: 
The player moves their disc two spaces on the 
banderole bar. If that space is occupied, put the 
disc on top.
• Craftsman: 
The player selects any one of the building tiles 
on the bottom margin of the game board and 
immediately integrates it into their district, 
following the building rules. If that tile completes 
anything, they are rewarded accordingly. If they 
complete another craftsman dwelling, they select another tile, etc. 
The building tiles on the bottom margin are not replaced with new tiles. 
Markets / Bakeries / Fountains
Markets always consist of the single tile they are depicted on. The same 
applies to bakeries and fountains. They are always surrounded by grass, so 
they can only be placed adjacent to other grass. 
• Market: 
When you place a market, you are rewarded one coin from the 
supply. Place it on your storage space. 
More information about using coins can be found in “Dwellings: 
Merchant” (page 6) and “The Scoring Cards” (page 9).
• Bakery: 
When you place a bakery, you are rewarded one bread from 
the supply. Place it on your storage space. 
More information about using bread can be found in “Dwellings: 
Baker” (page 7) and “The Scoring Cards” (page 9).
+ 2 bread tokens 
Hand in 1 bread = move
meeple to any space
Hand in 3 bread = 
fulfill one scoring 
card requirement
+ 2 spaces
+ 1 building tile
Markets / Bakeries / 
Fountains ...
- always consist of 1 tile
- grant the following rewards:
+ 1 coin 
+ 1 bread token

• Fountain: 
When you place a fountain, look at the top two cards of the 
face down fountain card pile. Pick one of them and place it 
face down next to your storage space. Put the other card face 
down under the fountain card pile
Attention: For each subsequent fountain you place during this 
game, you may keep both cards and return a card from an ear-
lier fountain to the bottom of the fountain card pile. 
Note: For the unlikely case that there aren’t enough tokens for wares, bread, or 
coins, simply use other materials instead.
After each player has completed their 7 turns, all 28 building tiles have been 
used up. The phase ends by scoring this round: The player who has progres-
sed furthest on the banderole bar begins. If there is a tie, the player on top 
begins.
If it’s your turn to score, place one of your discs on an empty circle space to 
trigger both adjacent scoring cards (see next page for details). After each 
player has placed one disc and triggered both cards, scoring ends and the 
next phase is prepared (see page 11: “Subsequent Phases”).
The scoring discs stay where they are, i.e. these spaces can’t be used during 
subsequent scoring periods. Only the current disc triggers scoring of adja-
cent cards. Discs from previous scoring periods do not trigger, they just block 
that particular space. 
Note: You always have one more space available than necessary for the number 
of players (9 spaces for 2 players, 13 spaces for 3 players, and 17 spaces for 4 
players).
Scoring
+ 1 fountain card
Players score in order of 
banderole bar progress 
Scoring
The scoring player must place 
one of their discs on an empty 
circle space, triggering the 
two adjacent scoring cards
1.
2.
4.
3.

THE SCORING CARDS
There are two types of scoring cards: 
For cards with green background, you must own whatever is 
shown in the top half of the card (e.g. three completed dwellings, 
or 2 villa chimneys, or . . .) to receive the rewards shown in the 
bottom half. 
For cards with red background, you must pay the wares shown 
in the top half (or the same number of coins) to get the rewards.
The following applies to both types: If a player owns (or pays) multiples of 
whatever is shown on the card, they also receive the shown rewards that 
often (see examples below).
In addition, there are four types of cards: A, B, C, and D. They are pre- 
selected depending on the number of players (according to their backside) 
and then distributed randomly.
• A and B Cards
These cards require you to pay a specific quantity of the same (A cards) or 
different wares (B cards). Any wares can be replaced by coins. 
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Scoring 
Cards
There are cards with green 
background (you need to 	
	
own what is shown) 
... and red background 
(pay what is shown)
There are four types of cards: 
A, B, C, and D (quantities 
depend on number of players)
Pay 2 (4, 6, …)
herbs and/or coins
(or 3 bread) to get 
4 (8, 12, …) 
Pay 3 (6, 9, …) 
chicken and/or 
coins (or 3 bread) 
to get 7 
(14, 21, …) 
Pay 1 (2, 3 ...) set(s) 
consisting of 
1 chicken, 1 grape, 
and 1 fish and/or 
coins (or 3 bread) 
to get 5 (10, 15...) 
Pay 1 (2, 3 ...) set(s) 
consisting of 
1 chicken, 1 grape, 
1 herb, and 1 fish 
and/or coins (or 3 
bread) to get 5 (10, 
15...) victory points.
Sophie placed her disc and
triggered the scoring card on 
the far right (plus one more 
card that is not shown). She 
pays 3 bread tokens (= 1 set) as 
well as 3 coins, 2 fish, 2 herbs, 
and 1 chicken (= 2 more sets) to 
gain 3 x 8 = 24 victory points.

• C Cards
These cards are affected by your villas.
Some have you count the total number of chimneys in your district. Every 
chimney counts, no matter if the villas are completed or not. 
Other are only affected by completed villas (independent of their size!). 
Incomplete villas are ignored. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
• D Cards
These cards are affected by your landscapes, dwellings, as well as markets, 
bakeries, and fountains.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Important! If a player can’t fully meet the requirements of a scoring card, 
they don’t get any victory points at all and instead lose 4 victory points.That 
means that a player might lose up to 8 victory points during a scoring period!
	 Example: For one of her scoring cards, Sophie needs to pay 3 herbs, but she 
	 only owns 2. She neither owns coins nor 3 bread tokens. She keeps the 2 
	 herbs, and instead of gaining 7 victory points, she loses 4 victory points. 
Each player decides the order in which they fulfill their two scoring cards. 
Sometimes it is possible to fulfill the second scoring card with the rewards 
from fulfilling the first.
If a player cannot meet the 
requirements on a scoring 
card, they lose 4 victory 
points!
For 1 (2, 3, …)
completed 
merchant dwellings
get 3 (6, 9, …)
For 1 (2, 3, …) sets
consisting of 1
completed pond and
1 completed garden,
get 7 (14, 21, …)
For any 3 (6, 9, …)
completed land-
scapes (or 3 bread) 
you get 1 (2, 3, …) 
coins and bread 
tokens.
bakeries (or 3 
bread) you 
get 3 (6, 9, …)
chimneys (or 3 
bread) you get
1 (2, 3, …) bread
tokens.
For 3 (6, 9, …)
chimneys (or 3 
bread) you get
1 (2, 3, …) coins
and move 1 (2,
3, …) spaces on 
For 1 (2, 3, …)
completed villas
get 3 (6, 9, …)
completed villas
get 1 (2, 3, …)
sets consisting of 1 
coin, 1 bread, and
moving 1 space on
Nick placed his disc between 
the two cards on the left. There 
is a total of 7 chimneys in his 
district. The left card gets him 
3 bread tokens. The other card 
gets him 2 coins and 2 spaces on 
Hank placed his disc between 
the cards in the center. His 
district contains 7 completed 
landscapes of arbitrary size, 
including 2 ponds and 1 garden. 
The left card gets him 7 victory 
points, the right card gets him 2 
coins and 2 bread tokens.

Subsequent Phases follow the same pattern:
- In the second and third phases, distribute 28 light green building tiles 
	 on the seven blueprint spaces of the game board. In the fourth phase, 
	 distribute the remaining 28 dark green building tiles. 
	 Note: As opposed to the light tiles, the dark tiles always only show exactly 
	 one thing.
- Pass the starting player token to the left.
- Scoring cards and banderole discs as well as meeples stay where they are.
The game ends after scoring the fourth phase, followed by the final scoring. 
For the final scoring period, follow the dark grey list on your overview boards:
• Villas:​ 
Count the chimneys in each of your completed villas and take the listed 
victory points. Incomplete villas and their chimneys are ignored.
	 Example: Nick has a completed villa with 3 chimneys and two completed villas 
	 with 5 chimneys each. He also owns two incomplete villas with 4 chimneys 
	 each: He receives 3+7+7+0+0=17 victory points. 
• Remaining items:​ 
Divide the number of remaining items on your storage space (wares, coins, 
bread tokens, and building tiles) by 2. You gain that many victory points, 
rounded down.
• Banderole bar:​ 
You gain as many victory points as shown on the banderole bar space with 
your disc.
• Fountain cards:​ 
Reveal your fountain cards. You gain that many victory points depending on 
your achievements. If you have both fountain cards of the same type, you get 
victory points for both of them.
For example, these four fountain cards read as follows:
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
End of the Game
After the fourth scoring 
period there is a final 
scoring period
Completed villas: victory 
points for chimneys
Victory points for remaining 
items divided by 2
Victory points for position on 
banderole bar
Fountain cards: victory points 
depending on achievements
For the next three phases 
distribute 28 tiles each 
In the fourth phase use the 
dark green tiles
Next player becomes starting 
player
End of the Game
merchant dwelling 
in your district, you 
garden in your 
district, you get 
2 victory points.
For each market 
in your district, you 
villa in your district 
(of any size), you 

• Frame achievements:​ 
Each player has two goals on each of their 4 frame parts. Frame achievements 
work as follows: Draw an imaginary line starting at the golden arrow that 
shows a building or landscape type. That line must intersect with at least 
one completed building or landscape of that type. Incomplete or additional 
matching buildings or landscapes do not count. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
This player achieved the “baker dwelling” goal (1x 4 victory points) and the 
“villa” goal (1x 3 victory points), but not the “pond” and the “garden” goal.
The player with the most victory points is the winner. If multiple players are 
tied for most victory points, the player among them who is last on the bande-
role bar wins the game. 
The author and publisher would like to thank the numerous play testers for 
their enthusiasm and many suggestions, especially:
Susanne and Jonathan Feld, as well as the play groups from Bad Aibling, 
Fischbachau, Grassau, Krumbach, Lieberhausen, Oberhof, Offenburg, 
Reutte, and Siegsdorf.
For comments, suggestions, or questions about this game, contact us:
Ravensburger North America, Inc. 
Distribution Center
1 Puzzle Lane 
Newton, NH 03858 
Email: info@aleaspiele.de
Visit our website:
www.aleaspiele.de
© 2017 Stefan Feld
© 2018 Ravensburger Spieleverlag 
Frame: victory points 
depending on achievements
The player with the most 
victory points wins the game
236884