The board represents the territory 
of the future town of Carson City, 
divided into 64 parcels. 
Above the map of the 
city, the different actions 
of the game are depicted. 
 
The board on the reverse 
side includes the Carson 
river. We advise you to 
play your first game(s) on the board without 
the river.
7 personality cards. The red numbers on these cards indicate 
the (end of turn) cash limit of this personality. Each personality 
has special functions. There is one set of personality cards in yellow 
and one in red. We advise you to play your first game(s) with the 
yellow cards.
2 dice
One round token 
to be used as « turn 
counter »
 Game contentS 
1 special 
«3 guns» 
chip.
25 revolver 
chips.
30 duel tiles
(use only with the first variant)
60 property 
tiles (12 tiles 
per color) to 
show the owner of each 
acquired parcel.
30 building tiles: 6 ranches, 6 mines, 
4 drugstores, 4 banks, 3 saloons, 3 hotels, 
2 churches and 2 prisons.
 Money: $1 (30, small coins), 
$5 (20, medium sized coins), 
$10 (22, large coins) and $20 
(6, bills)
25 black 
sticks 
51 cowboys (10 per color, 1 white cowboy representing the 
sheriff), to select actions.
10 markers (2 per color) to be used on the turn order track 
and to score victory points. 
20 houses 
9 mountain 
tiles
1 bag
 carson city 
The year is 1858 in Carson City, Nevada. You have rounded up 
a team of courageous cowboys, and your plan is to buy up the best parcels 
of land in this new town, then build them up with the most prosperous ranches, mines, 
saloons, etc. You will need guts to challenge your opponents to duels in order to secure and 
hold the best properties. You will also need to recruit and use the help of the most interesting 
“personalities” in CarsonCity to aid your cause. The winner will be the most prominent citizen in 
Carson City, as measured by victory points that can be won both during and after the game. 
At the end of the game all players’ belongings (money, buildings, parcels, mountains, 
houses) will be converted into victory points as well. 
XAVIER GEORGES
Artwork: Alexandre Roche

 Game setup 
The image below shows an example of set up for three players.
For the first turn, randomly choose 
the turn order.
The corresponding markers 
are set on the turn order 
track as a reminder of turn order.
The turn counter is set on the 
start position.
Every player gets 
$15, 1 road, 12 pro-
perty tiles of his 
color and 3 cow-
boys of his color. 
Roads and cowboys constitute the personal 
reserve of the player.
The remaining money is 
piled near the board and 
constitutes the Central Bank. 
Houses, victory points, 
roads and remaining cowboys are 
placed near the board in the general 
reserve.
The center of Carson City 
is determined by rolling 
the dice (at the intersection of 
the column designated by the white die and 
the row designated by the black die). 
A house is set on that parcel 
and four roads are placed 
along the house, one per 
side. These roads will later be extended 
through the rest of the town.
9 mountains are placed ran-
domly on the board (using the 
dice as above). If the designated parcel is 
already occupied, roll the dice again.
One ranch is placed on the 
« $3 » construction square and 
another on the « $10 » square.
A mine is placed on the « $4 » 
construction 
square 
and 
another on the « $12 » square. 
Three other buildings are drawn 
randomly from the bag and set 
on the remaining « $5 », « $6 » 
and « $8 » construction squares.
The special (3) gun tile is set on 
its square.
?
Starting with the first player 
and then in turn order, each 
player chooses a parcel by 
placing one of his property tiles on it. 
Next, starting from the last player and going 
back to the first player, each player chooses 
a second parcel. Any parcel may be chosen, 
including a parcel with a mountain or the 
center of Carson City. The picture above illus-
trates an example of setup for three players. 

 How to play 
A game is divided into four turns, each composed of four phases:
 1  Choice of personality
 All personality cards are placed near the board. Then, each player, according 
	 to turn order, chooses one of them. Certain choices may be directly followed by an 
	 action, depending on the personality (see page 7).
 When all players have chosen a personality, the turn order is modified. 
	 The markers are placed on the upper turn order track in ascending order, according to 
	 the number indicated on the personality cards that have been chosen.
 2  Cowboy PLACEMENT 
	 On your turn, you choose one of the following options:
 Choose an action. Place a cowboy from your reserve onto one of the action squares 
	 above the city’s map (these actions will be detailed on pages 4-5).
 Choose a parcel of land. Place a cowboy from your reserve onto one of the parcels.
 Attack/defend a building. Place a cowboy from your reserve onto a building to attack 
	 it (or to defend it if this building is yours).
 Pass. Move your marker onto the first free position of the lower turn order track. 
	 Your turn is over. You are not allowed to place additional cowboys during this turn. 
	 None of the options are obligatory. But you have to choose one of them, unless 
	 you have passed. You are allowed to buy several parcels during the same turn (a cow-boy 
	 must be placed on each). You may place a cowboy on a square or a parcel already occupied 
	 by another player’s cowboy. This will lead to a duel. On some squares, one player can 
	 place several cowboys.
 3  Performing the actions and duels
 After all players have passed, the actions are performed one by one according to 
	 the sequence on the board (see pages 4 - 5: action description). As soon as an action 
	 is completed, the cowboy goes back to the general reserve.
 If several players have placed a cowboy on the same square or parcel, a duel 
	 occurs. Every player involved rolls a die. The number obtained is added to the 
	 number of revolvers and cowboys in the respective player’s reserve.	
	 The winner is the player with the highest total. The winner has won the right to perform 
	 the action. The winner’s cowboy goes into the general reserve. 
	 The loser will not perform the action he was fighting for. He places his cowboy back into his 
	 personal reserve. When more than two players are involved in a duel, all losers recover 
	 their respective cowboys.	
	 In case of a tie, the player (among the ones involved in the duel) with the lowest turn order 
	 number on the turn order track is the winner. 
 4  End of turn
	 After all actions have been performed:
 The turn counter token is moved one square forward (left), blocking one of the 
	 “victory points purchase” squares from being used for the rest of the game. 
 Every player receives new cowboys of his color. They are taken from the general 
	 reserve to be placed into the respective personal reserves. At the end of the 1st 
	 turn each player gets 4 cowboys, and each player gets 5 cowboys at the ends of the 2nd 
 and 3rd turns. The maximum number of cowboys in your personal reserve is 10.
 Money beyond your cash limit (indicated in red on the personality card in your 
	 possession) must be spent. You get 1 victory point per $10 that you must spend. 
	 You are allowed to spend more money, but you always receive 1 victory point per $10. 
 The buildings that have not been bought are shifted sequentially towards the 
	 squares with lower prices. For each remaining available position, one building is 
	 drawn randomly from the bag and placed on the Action track before the begin 
 ning of the next turn. 
After all players have chosen a persona-
lity card, the turn order is modified. In 
the example above, Green has chosen the 
sheriff, Orange the grocer, and Purple the 
mercenary.
When a player chooses to pass, he moves 
his marker onto the first free position of 
the lower turn order track. In the example 
above, Orange is the first player to pass. 
Cash limit: The dollar amount in red on 
each personality card indicates the maxi-
mum amount of cash you can have in 
reserve at the end of the turn. All money 
over this amount must be spent.
Money beyond your cash limit : 
The power of cowboys in case of a duel =
+
+

Building construction
There are seven « building construction » squares, each giving the 
right to build one building at the price indicated on the bottom of 
the square. The building process consists of the player placing a building on 
one of his property tiles, with two conditions:
1 - The parcel must be reached by a road. At least one road must touch one corner of 
the parcel – see example on the right. If there is no road reaching the parcel yet, the player 
is allowed to place one or more roads on the board from his personal reserve. Exceptions: 
ranches and mines do not need to be reached by a road before being built. 
2 - When building a drugstore, a mine, a bank, a saloon, a church or a prison, the 
player must also place a house for the new inhabitants attracted by this new activity. 
This house has no cost and must be placed on a free parcel (no building, no mountain) reached by 
a road. This parcel may already belong to the player. The house may also be built on a parcel already 
belonging to another player (upon agreement) or on an owner-free parcel. In this last case, the 
parcel may still be bought later.
Note: Instead of building it immediately, a player may also keep the building he has just 
bought in front of him, and build it later (for example, because the parcel has no road 
connection yet, or because he cannot find a position for the required house). To place it on the 
board, he must wait until the end of the next « building construction » action. All players may 
have several buildings in front of them.
At the beginning of the game, only 
9 parcels are reached by a road: the 
central parcel and its 8 neighbouring 
parcels.
Note: It is not allowed to build a buil-
ding or a house on a mountain
 Actions 
Any player may decide to not perform an action that he has chosen 
(for example, if he realizes that he will not have enough money for everything), even 
if he won a duel for the action. Never-theless, his cowboy goes to the general reserve. 
The actions are always performed in the sequence indicated on the board:
Wages
No duel on this square. A player receives 
$4 for each of his cowboys on this square, 
which means that a player can place multi-
ple cowboys on this square.
Ammunition 
The player who wins this action receives the 
special 3 guns chip for the rest of the turn. 
At the end of the turn this chip goes back to 
its place on the board.
Roads
The player who wins this action receives 3 
new roads to put in his personal reserve. 
The roads in the personal reserve are available for 
construction and may be placed on the board at 
any time during the game. 
Roads
No duel on this square. Each player 
receives one road for each of his cowboys on 
this square which means a player can place 
multiple cowboys here.
Note: a newly constructed road must always must always ex-
tend previous placed roads. 
Parcel purchase
To buy an owner-free parcel, a player must have put a 
cowboy on it (and not on the parcel purchase square) 
during the cowboy setting phase. He may buy it now. If 
several players try to buy the same parcel, a duel determines 
the winner. This parcel may already contain a house or a 
mountain.
The parcel price is $1, plus $1 for every building, mountain or house 
situated on this parcel or next to it (including diagonally). The amount 
is paid to the Central Bank and the player must place a property tile of his 
color (the cowboy goes to the general reserve). If there is more than one duel 
during a parcel purchase action, the player (among the ones involved in the 
duel) with the lowest number on the turn order track decides in which order 
the duels take place.
Orange 
 purchases a 
parcel for a total 
cost of $6 ($1 + 
$2 for the houses, 
+ $2 for the 
saloons, + $1 for 
the mountain.

 End of the game 
The game ends at the end of the fourth turn, after the players have spent the money that was 
beyond the cash limit of their personality card for that turn. In addition to the victory points 
acquired during the game:
Each building, house and mountain gives 2 victory points to their respective 
owner.
Any remaining money is also used to buy victory points (at $6 per victory point).
Empty private parcels as well as buildings in the player’s reserve do not reward victory points. 
The winner is the player with the highest number of victory points. In case of a tie, the 
player (among those involved in the tie) with the lower number on the turn order track wins. 
= $6
=
Parcels income
The player who wins this action gets $2 per 
parcel he owns.
Parcels victory points
The player who wins this action gets a number 
of victory points corresponding to half the 
amount of parcels he owns (rounded down). 
These parcels do not have to be adjacent.
Cowboy victory points
The player who wins this action gets an 
amount of victory points corresponding 
to half his fire-power (rounded down). The 
firepower of a player is the number of cowboy and 
revolvers in his personal reserve.
Estate victory points 
The player who wins this action gets an 
amount of victory points corresponding to 
the number of buildings that are placed on his 
parcels (mountains and houses excluded).
Buying victory points
The player who wins this action may buy 
victory points at the price of $2, $3, $4 or $5 
per victory point.
Estate income
Each building brings money to its owner, depending on the buil-
dings and houses in the vicinity (see page 6, building description). 
This action is automatic; there is no need to put a cowboy on a square to get 
this income.
It is possible to put a cowboy on a building of another player to at-
tack it. If the resulting duel/attack is successful, the attacker will steal half of 
the income of that particular building (rounded down) from its owner. One player may also 
place a cowboy on his own building in order to help defend against an attacker in a duel and 
protect his income. 
Note: When a house does not belong to a specific player (when it is built on an owner-free 
parcel), it can increase the values of all neighboring buildings, whoever the owner is. However, 
when built on a parcel belonging to a player, this house will only benefit the buildings of that 
player (see example on the right). The same applies to mountains and mines.
The orange saloon (3 neighbouring 
houses) gives a higher income than the 
purple one (2 neighbouring houses only, 
since the third one belongs to Orange).
Cowboy income
The player who wins this action gets $2 for 
each firepower point. The firepower of a player 
is the number of cowboys and revolvers in his 
personal reserve.
Gambling income 
The player who wins this action must roll 
two dice and receives the rolled amount in 
cash. A3 and a 5 would result in $8.

 Buildings 
House
house is built must be reached by a road.
Income: None
Special rules: Houses are never bought. They 
come into play when other buildings are built.
Ranch
Setting conditions: No placement restrictions. 
Income: $1 for every neighboring free 
parcel, no matter the owner of the free parcel 
(with a minimal income of $1). Several ranches 
may benefit from the same free parcel.
Special rules: A ranch adds 1 point to your firepower (+1 revolver). 
A ranch is considered a house to calculate drugstore, bank and 
saloon incomes. 
Drugstore
drugstore is built must be reached by a road, and 
the player must also build a house.
Income: $3 per neighboring house and per 
ranch owned by the player
Example: If a player owns a drugstore with a neighboring ranch of 
his and three neighboring houses, he gets $15 (actually, the ranch is 
counted twice, the first time as a neighboring house, and the second 
time as a ranch).
Mine
Setting conditions: -
Income: $3 per neighboring mountain. 
Several mines may benefit from the same mountain. 
Once you own a mountain, it no longer benefits 
other players’ mines.
Special rules: A mine adds 1 point to your firepower (+1 revolver).
Bank 
bank is built must be reached by a road, and the 
Income: $3 per neighboring house and per 
mine owned by the player.
Example: A player who owns a bank and a mine, with one house 
and one hotel as a direct neighbor of his bank, receives a bank 
income of $12.
Saloon
saloon is built must be reached by a road, and the 
Income: $5 per neighboring house.
HOtel
hotel is built must be reached by a road, and the 
Income: $6. 
Special rules: A hotel is considered two houses when calculating 
drugstore, bank, and saloon incomes.
Prison
prison is built must be reached by a road, and the 
Income: None. 
Special rules: The prison adds 2 points to your firepower (+2 
revolvers). You are not allowed to attack a prison.
Church
church is built must be reached by a road, and the 
Income: None. 
Special rules: A church is considered a house when calculating 
drugstore, bank, and saloon incomes. A church allows the player 
to prevent other players’ attacks. All buildings of yours directly 
adjacent to your church cannot be attacked. If you build a church 
near one of your buildings being attacked, the attack is cancelled. 
The attacker returns his cowboy to his personal reserve. You are 
not allowed to attack a church.
Place each building on top of 
the property tile, such that the 
black arrow points to the total 
income for this building. 
Each building displays 8 income 
indications.
This icon 
indicates 
the source 
of the 
income
Total income of this building
(8 positions)
This building is 
also considered as 
a house
+ 1 Revolver

 Personalities 
Every personality tile shows two different powers (common rules on the 
yellow side and variants on the red side). For your initial game, we recommend that you 
use the yellow side. In future games, the players may choose which personalities will 
be played during the game (either randomly chosen or decided by the players).
The Chinese coolie
When you choose the Chinese coolie, 
you immediately receive two roads. In 
addition, the price of any building is 
halved (rounded up). Cash limit: $30.
Variant: you pay $5 and take one of 
the available buildings. You may build 
it immediately, or keep it to build it 
later. The remaining buildings are im-
mediately shifted towards lower prices, 
and a new building is drawn from the 
bag. Cash limit: $30.
The settler
The settler immediately gives you a 
parcel (it must be an owner-free parcel 
at the moment you take it). 
Cash limit: $30
Variant: You receive either $8 
immediately, or you receive $1 per 
mountain you own at the end of the 
turn. 
 
The mercenary
During this turn, the player helped by 
the mercenary has 3 extra firepower 
points. Cash limit: $20.
Variant: The mercenary gives 2 extra firepower 
points during this turn. Cash limit: $30. 
THE CAPTAIN
The player helped by the captain may 
pay $1 to get one extra cowboy from 
the general reserve, or $4 to get two 
extra cowboys from the general reserve, 
or $9 to get three extra cow-
boys from the general reserve. 
Cash limit: $25.
Variant: You pay either $3 to re-
ceive a revolver tile, or $9 to receive 
two revolver tiles. You keep these 
revolver tiles until the end of the 
game. Cash limit: $20.
The sheriff
The player helped by the sheriff gets 
the special “sheriff” cowboy from the 
general reserve (white cowboy). This 
allows him to select one action without 
fear of being attacked (no 
one challenges the sheriff to 
a duel). Therefore, the white 
cowboy must not be placed to 
attack a building or to challenge 
someone into a duel (it must be played on a cowboy-free square). 
Variant: You are not allowed to attack any building or engage in a duel 
(except to defend yourself). For every lost duel, you receive 3 victory points. 
The banker
When you choose the banker, you 
immediately receive $9. 
The cash limit is particularly high: $120.
Variant: Before the end of the turn, you may pur-
chase 3, 5, or 7 victory points for $3, 
$12 or $25, respectively. 
Cash limit: $60.
The grocer
The grocer allows you to:
• Either double the income for one 
particular building type (for exam-
ple, all your banks) during the estate 
income phase. If a building 
with double income is attacked, 
 
then you and the attacker 
receive normal income
• Or receive $8 (immedia-
tely or during estate in-
come phase). Cash limit: $60.
Variant: You receive either $8 immediately or 1 victory point per house 
you own at the end of the turn (except ranches, hotels, and churches). 
Cash limit: $60.

This variant proposes less randomly determined duels, 
replacing dice for duel tiles. To play this variant, you 
have to use the following modifications.
During game set up: 
For a two-player game, each receives 6 duel tiles, 
numbered 0 to 5, and $15.
For a three- to five-player game, take 6 duel tiles 
(from 0 to 5) per player, and mix them. Each player 
receives 6 duel tiles at random and keeps them secretly. 
Each player announces the total of points on his duel tiles. The 
sum of the totals must be 45 (if 3 players), 60 (if 4 players) or 75 
(if 5 players). As starting cash, each player receives $30 minus the 
total of his duel tile points. 
How to perform duels: Instead of rolling dice, each player 
challenged to a duel chooses and plays a duel tile which adds 
that number of points to the fire power of the player. Duel tiles 
are discarded after use to make a new stockpile. When a player 
has no duel tiles left, he takes three new ones at random from the 
stockpile.
The «Might is right» variant
This variant, non recommended for inexperienced 
players and tenderfeet, shortens the game duration 
by allowing simultaneous setting of the cowboys.
 
The section on page 3 point 2 is modified as follows:
As soon as the first player of the turn has set his first cowboy on 
the board, all players simultaneously may set their cowboys on 
the actions they wish. Any player may also decide to shift any 
cowboy of his and place it on another action, repeatedly. When 
a player decides to stop placing or shifting his cowboys, he places 
his marker on the first free position of the lower turn order track. 
From this moment on, he is not allowed to place or shift cowboys 
any more during this turn. 
Fair play rules:
• Only one hand may be used to set the cowboys down on the 
board;
• Make calm and precise movements, do not knock pawns and tiles 
over, or shake the gameboard;
• Do not stay undecided with your cowboy while hanging your 
hand over the board, bothering other players. 
End of the game is completed as follows: Each player gets 1 
victory point per player after him on the turn order track.
The «KiT Carson» variant 
To play this variant, please use the reverse board showing a river.
Please also use the following modifications:
During game set up :
• All river parcels must be kept free (no mountain and no city center); 
• 6 mountains are placed instead of 9.
It is neither allowed to buy a river parcel nor to build a building or 
a house on a river parcel.
A river parcel is considered as a free parcel when calculating ranch 
incomes (thus, +$1 per river parcel). 
If a mine is in contact with the river, the mine income is increased 
by $3, whatever the number of 
river parcels in contact.
Two roads are necessary to cross 
the river. A double road crossing 
the river is called a bridge.
At the end of the game, any 
private parcel (with mountain, 
building or house) in contact 
with a bridge brings 3 victory 
points instead of 2.
The «Carson River» variant 
 Variants 
 Acknowledgments 
QWG wishes to thank: Ryan Laukat - Frank Quispel – Jeroen Hollander - Luk Van Lokeren - Albert Gho – Leonie Caljouw – 
Anke Hahn – Carsten Neumann – Julia Hammes and play-testers.
The author is thankful to all play-testers, particularly Vincent Barbiaux, Alice Blahova, Michel Detienne, Miguel Sebastian Santamaria, Fanny 
Cayron, Frédéric Gilles, Etienne Goetynck, Jean-François Lemire, Alexis Keyaerts, Nicolas Seinlet, Thierry Simon, Emmanuel Simonis, Aude Tefnin, 
Jean-Vincent Valkenberg, Frédéric Verollemans, Thierry Zamparutti, and all members of the boardgame club «In Ludo Veritas». Special thanks to: 
Laurent d’Aries, Pascal Cadot, Marc Dave, Patrick Fautré, Philippe Keyaerts and Arnaud Pétain for their precious help and constructive criticisms.
The author wishes to dedicate this game to Jean-François Wustefeld who was an exceptional player.
Author: Xavier Georges
English translation: Arnaud Pétein and Pascal Cadot.
Illustrations and graphic design: Alexandre Roche
www.alexandre-roche.com
Editor: Arno Quispel
www.qwggames.nl