Rulebook

Introduction v
Queen Gimnax has ordered the reclamation of the northern lands. 
As a cartographer in her service, you are sent to map this territory, claiming it for 
the Kingdom of Nalos. Through official edicts, the queen announces which lands she 
prizes most, and you will increase your reputation by meeting her demands. 
But you are not alone in this wilderness. The Dragul contest your claims with their 
outposts, so you must draw your lines carefully to reduce their influence. 
Reclaim the greatest share of the queen’s desired lands and you will be declared the 
greatest cartographer in the kingdom.
Overview v
In Cartographers, players compete to earn the most reputation stars by the 
time four seasons have passed.
Each season, players draw on their map sheets and earn reputation by carrying 
out the queen’s edicts before the season is over.
The player with the most reputation stars at the end of winter wins!
Credits v
Game Designer: Jordy Adan
Developers: Keith Matejka and John Brieger
Illustrator: Lucas Ribeiro
Graphic Designer: Luis Francisco
Wordsmiths: James Ryan and Seth Johnson
Editor: Dustin Schwartz
For additional information or support, please visit us at www.thunderworksgames.com 
© 2019 Thunderworks Games LLC. All Rights Reserved.
- 2 ,

Components v
100 MAP SHEETS 
(double sided) 
4 PENCILS
4 EDICT CARDS
13 EXPLORE CARDS
16 SCORING CARDS
4 AMBUSH CARDS
4 SEASON CARDS
- 3 ,

Game Setup v 
1.	 Give each player a blank map sheet. Players collectively decide whether to 
use the wilderness side (A) or the wastelands side (B).
2.	 Give each player a pencil. If playing with more than four players, additional 
pencils will need to be provided.
3.	 Have each player write a name for their cartographer at the top of their 
map sheet, optionally adding a title and family crest.
4.	 Arrange the four edict cards in a face-up row in the center of the play area, 
so that they are in alphabetical order (edict A, edict B, etc.).
5.	 Separate the scoring cards into four stacks according to their card backs. 
Shuffle the stacks separately, then randomly draw one card from each stack. 
Place one of these scoring cards below each of the edict cards, face up. 
Return the rest of the scoring cards to the game box.
6.	 Place the four season cards in a face-up stack, arranged in order by the 
progression of seasons (spring, summer, fall, winter). The spring card should 
be visible on top of the stack.
7.	 Shuffle the four ambush cards to form a face-down deck, then place this 
ambush deck off to one side of the play area.
8.	 Shuffle the explore cards to form a face-down deck. Take the top card of 
the ambush deck and shuffle it into this explore deck, without revealing it. 
Finally, place the explore deck next to the stack of season cards.
9.	 The game is ready to begin! 
- 4 ,

 
How to Play v 
The game is played over four seasons. Each season is divided into multiple 
turns, and each turn has three phases: the Explore Phase, Draw Phase, and 
Check Phase. At the end of each season, players earn reputation stars.
1. EXPLORE PHASE
Reveal the top card of the explore deck and place it face up in the center of the 
play area, so that all players can see it. Place the new card on top of any explore 
cards already in play, displaying the cards in a column to ensure that the time 
values on all revealed cards are visible.
•	 If the first revealed card is a ruins card, 
immediately reveal another card from the 
explore deck and place it on top of the ruins card.
•	 If the second revealed card is also a ruins card, 
immediately reveal another card from the explore 
deck and place it on top of both ruins cards.
»
- 5 ,

2. DRAW PHASE
At the same time, each player independently chooses one of the terrain types 
and one of the available shapes depicted on the revealed explore card, then 
draws it on their map with a pencil. 
 
•	 The chosen shape cannot overlap filled spaces 
or the edges of the map. (Mountain spaces 
and wasteland spaces are filled spaces.)
•	 The chosen shape does not have to be 
drawn adjacent to any shapes previously 
drawn on the map.
•	 The chosen shape can be rotated and/or 
flipped as needed before it is drawn on 
•	 After drawing the chosen shape, a player fills 
the shape with the chosen terrain type.
•	 If a player cannot legally draw any of the 
available shapes, they must instead draw a 
1x1 square anywhere on their map and fill it 
with the chosen terrain type. 
 
•	 Each mountain space has four adjacent spaces. If a 
player surrounds a mountain space by filling all four 
adjacent spaces, they fill in the next coin symbol on 
their coin track.
•	 Some shapes come with a coin. If a player chooses a 
shape with a coin, they fill in the next coin symbol on 
their coin track.
Times-Circle
- 6 ,

 
 
Rift Lands: If the rift lands card is revealed, each player draws a 
1x1 square anywhere on their map and fills it with any terrain 
type shown on the card. All normal rules and restrictions apply.
Ruins: If one or more ruins cards are revealed, each player must 
draw one of the available shapes, depicted on the next explore 
card that is revealed, so that it overlaps a ruins space on their 
map (if possible). 
If a player cannot legally draw one of the available shapes so 
that it overlaps a ruins space -OR- there are no unfilled ruins 
spaces left on their map, they must instead draw a 1x1 square 
anywhere on their map and fill it with any terrain type. 
Ambush: If an ambush card is revealed, check the direction of 
the arrow shown on the card. Each player immediately passes 
their map sheet to their neighbor in that direction.
Each player draws the depicted shape on their neighbor’s map, 
then fills the shape with the monster terrain type. 
If a player cannot legally draw the depicted shape on their 
neighbor’s map, they must instead draw a 1x1 square anywhere 
on their neighbor’s map and fill it with the monster terrain type. 
Then pass all map sheets back to their owners and discard the 
ambush card, returning it to the game box.
Note: If an ambush card is revealed immediately after a ruins 
card, the ambush card is resolved normally. The effect of the 
ruins card will apply to the next explore card that is revealed.
 Terrain Types v
Forest
Village
Farm
Monster
Water
Mountain
- 7 ,

3. CHECK PHASE
Check to see if the end of the season has been 
reached.
Examine the current season card to find the 
time threshold. For example, spring has a time 
threshold of eight.
Add together the time values of all explore cards that are 
currently revealed in the column.
•	 If the total meets or exceeds the time threshold, the current 
season ends. Proceed immediately to the end of the season.
•	 If the total is less than the time threshold, the current 
season continues. Return to the Explore Phase. 
End of the Season v
At the end of each season, players are evaluated, earning reputation 
stars based on how well they followed the queen’s edicts.
SCORING THE QUEEN’S EDICTS
Examine the current season card to see which two 
scoring cards to evaluate. For example, in spring, 
evaluate the scoring cards below edicts A and B.
•	 Each player evaluates their own map to determine how many reputation 
stars they earn for each of the two scoring cards being evaluated this 
season, writing those numbers in the corresponding boxes. 
(See pages 10–11 for details on the scoring cards.)
•	 Each player earns one reputation star for each filled-in coin symbol on their 
coin track, writing that number in the corresponding box.
•	 Each player loses one reputation star for each empty space adjacent to a 
monster space on their map, writing that number in the corresponding box. 
(If an empty space is adjacent to multiple monster spaces, the player still 
only loses one reputation star for that space.)
If the current season is winter, the game is now over; proceed to the end of the 
game. Otherwise, prepare for the next season. 
+1 
+0 
+1 
=8
- 8 ,

PREPARING FOR THE NEXT SEASON
Discard the top card of the season stack, returning it to the game box. This 
will reveal the next season card in the stack.
Reshuffle the explore deck, including all explore cards revealed this season. 
Then take the top card of the ambush deck and shuffle it into the explore 
deck, without revealing it.
Note: If an ambush card in the explore deck is not revealed during a season, 
it remains in the explore deck for the next season, and an additional ambush 
card is added! In this way, it is possible to have multiple ambush cards in the 
explore deck during later seasons. 
End of the Game v
Once winter has ended and players have been evaluated for the fourth time, 
the game is over. 
Each player totals the reputation stars that they earned across all four 
seasons, writing their final score on their map sheet. The player with the most 
reputation stars is the winner!
In the event of a tie, the tied player who lost the least reputation stars to 
monster terrain across all four seasons is the winner. If there is a further tie, 
all tied players share the victory.
Scoring Cards v
When scoring, keep in mind these general rules:
•	 Spaces that share a side with each other are 
adjacent. Spaces that are only at diagonals with 
each other are not adjacent.
•	 A group of connected spaces that all have the 
same terrain type is a cluster. Clusters can have any 
number of spaces (including just a single space).
•	 Monster spaces, mountain spaces, and wasteland 
spaces all count as filled spaces. Only filled ruins 
spaces count as filled spaces. 
- 9 ,

The Golden Granary: Earn one 
reputation star for each water 
space adjacent to a ruins space. 
Earn three reputation stars 
for each farm space on a ruins 
space.
Canal Lake: Earn one reputation 
star for each water space 
adjacent to at least one farm 
space. Earn one reputation star 
for each farm space adjacent to 
at least one water space.
Shoreside Expanse: Earn three 
reputation stars for each cluster of 
farm spaces not adjacent to a water 
space or the edge of the map. Earn 
three reputation stars for each cluster 
of water spaces not adjacent to a 
farm space or the edge of the map.
Mages Valley: Earn two 
reputation stars for each water 
space adjacent to a mountain 
space. Earn one reputation star 
for each farm space adjacent to 
a mountain space.
Sentinel Wood: Earn one 
reputation star for each forest 
space adjacent to the edge of 
Treetower: Earn one reputation 
star for each forest space 
surrounded on all four sides 
by filled spaces or the edge of 
Stoneside Forest: Earn three 
mountain space connected to 
another mountain space by a 
cluster of forest spaces.
Greenbough: Earn one 
reputation star for each row 
and column with at least one 
forest space. The same forest 
space may be scored in a row 
and a column.
The histories say that long ago this place fed an empire. 
Now nothing grows in the sands blowing among the ruins.
A true cartographer knows how to use a theodolite on 
both rock and raft. You can’t stop drawing the line just 
because the land ends.
Pathways laid with colorful stones topped the channels 
along each family’s crops, a bit of beauty among their 
labors in the dirt.
The wizards chose their high valley homes carefully, 
hidden from prying eyes but fertile enough for their 
strange harvest to thrive.
Beneath the canopy, far from bright blue skies, every 
trail led through tangled thorns and suspicious shadows.
Mountains are clear landmarks, islands in a wide sea 
of trees, but a cartographer’s job is to chart every track 
hidden in those depths.
Druids planted these towering ranks to shield us from 
something in the wilds beyond.
I’ve mapped deserts. It’s much easier to survey forests, 
and much more pleasant to take breaks in the shade.
- 10 ,

Lost Barony: Earn three 
reputation stars for each space 
along one edge of the largest 
square of filled spaces.
Borderlands: Earn six 
complete row or complete 
column of filled spaces.
The Cauldrons: Earn one 
reputation star for each empty 
space surrounded on all four 
sides by filled spaces or the 
edge of the map.
The Broken Road: Earn three 
complete diagonal line of filled 
spaces that touches the left and 
bottom edges of the map.
Wildholds: Earn eight 
reputation stars for each cluster 
of six or more village spaces.
Great City: Earn one reputation 
star for each village space in 
the largest cluster of village 
spaces that is not adjacent to a 
mountain space.
Shieldgate: Earn two reputation 
stars for each village space in 
the second largest cluster of 
village spaces.
Greengold Plains: Earn three 
cluster of villages spaces that 
is adjacent to three or more 
different terrain types.
Lines on a map may not define the loyalty of these 
fiercely independent people...
For generations they have lived in the surrounding lands, 
but none dare to explore the acrid openings in the ground.
Once far out beyond the edge of the map, now these 
lands are squarely on it. Someday our next expedition 
will begin here.
What’s more incredible: the centuries of labor that it took 
to build these paved paths or the precision that laid them 
so straight?
In this sprawling nest of intrigue where guilds pursue 
ancient vendettas, the queen will burn out their venom or 
rule over ashes.
Stake walls ran along paths betwen the villages, and 
the inhabitants rushed to defend one another when the 
wildclans returned.
There had to be six in a cluster to earn a mark on my 
map, enough to justify the queen dispatching a justice ... 
or a tax collector.
Long ago we were a land of wanderers. But when the 
people put down roots they did so wisely, near everything 
they needed.
- 11 ,

Solo Mode v 
Set off as a lone cartographer to explore the Kingdom of Nalos. In solo mode, 
you attempt to earn a prestigious title from Queen Gimnax at the end of your 
journey! Gameplay has the following changes:
CHANGES TO SETUP
Do not write a title on your map sheet. This is where you’ll record the title 
appointed to you by Queen Gimnax at the end of the game.
 
CHANGES TO AMBUSHES
When an ambush card is revealed, examine the grid in the upper 
right corner of the card to see which corner of the map is shown.
On your map sheet, starting in the corner indicated by the ambush card, and 
proceeding along the edge of the map in the direction indicated by the arrow, 
attempt to legally draw the monster shape without flipping or rotating it.
If you cannot legally draw the monster shape anywhere along the edge of the 
map, move one space in from the edge and attempt it again, starting in the 
same corner and proceeding in the same direction.
Repeat this process, moving one space further in from the edge of the map 
each time, until you are able to legally draw the monster shape or confirm that 
it cannot be legally drawn. If the shape cannot be legally drawn, disregard the 
ambush card. 
 
CHANGES TO SCORING
After determining your score, total 
the numbers in the lower corners of 
the four scoring cards in play.
Then subtract that total from your 
score to find your rating.
Queen Gimnax awards you a title 
based on the highest rating that 
you met or surpassed.
 30+
Legendary Cartographer
Master Mapsmith
Journeyman Topographer
Apprentice Surveyor
-5
Amateur Assessor
-10
Inept Assistant
-20
Dimwitted Doodler
-30
Oblivious Inkdrinker
- 12 ,