8 board-segments, printed on 
both sides. 
One side shows an underground 
passage and the other side 
shows the path into the island. 
Each board-segment has 
a sequence of 6 symbols. 
A deck of 102 cards. 
Each card shows one of the 6 
symbols (17 for each symbol). Two 
cards of each symbol have a darker 
background (see Filibusters below).
2 sloop boards, one in good shape 
and the other half flooded.
1 jail board. 
1 pirate cove board.
30 pirates, in 5 colors 
(6 of each color).
8 treasure-chest tiles (to be used in 
the Black Magic Woman version).
CONTENT
Our Game represents the great 1672 jailbreak from the fortress of Cartagena. In this legendary story, it is told that the 
pirates managed to escape, running through an underground passage that led them to the beach where a sloop was waiting 
for them. Once on board, the pirates reached Tortuga Island and there they followed a secret path through its dense 
jungle and safely reached a cove.
In a few years, a game celebrating this famous jailbreak became very popular in the coves of Caribbean pirates. Within 
a short time, many other versions of this game flourished among them, stirred up by that anarchic spirit that has always 
characterized pirates.
This “Cartagena” is a modern version of the ancient Game. The Basic-Game reproduces only the first part of the 
jailbreak: the escape from the fortress to the sloop. Players may also choose to play the second part through the island of 
Tortuga or the whole story as well.
8 board-segments
pirate cove board
jail board
a deck of 102 cards
8 treasure-chest tiles
sloop board
in good shape
sloop board half flooded
30 pirates
8+
2-5
byLeo Colovini

AIM OF THE GAME
Each player controls a group of 6 pirates and tries to get all 6 of them to escape through the tortuous 
underground passages connecting the fortress to the beach, where a sloop is waiting for them. As soon as a 
player has brought all 6 their pirates aboard, the sloop sails away and the game is over.
PREPARATION
Place 6 of the 8 board-segments showing the underground passage, and put them together to create a 
continuous path made of 36 symbols (each symbol represents a space). This represents the passage the 
pirates must traverse to reach the beach and the sloop.
Place the jail board at one end of the path and the sloop (the one in good shape) at the other end.
Each of 2-5 players takes a set of 6 pirates of the same color. They place these on the jail board.
After shuffling the card deck, deal each player 6 cards, face-down. The players take the cards into their hands 
(hidden from other players). Place the rest of the deck face down on the table. From this supply, players will 
draw new cards during the game.
Place all unused components back in the box.
THE GAME
Choose the starting player using any preferred method. Players take turns in clockwise order. On their turns, 
the players may take from 1 to 3 actions. The allowed actions are:
• Play a card and advance a pirate (see examples: moves A, C and F).
Play a card on the discard pile, select one of your pirates (either one already in the underground passage, 
or one still in the jail) and advance it to the first vacant space (vacant means not occupied by any pirate) 
marked with the same symbol that is shown on the card you just played. If there is no vacant space in front 
of the pirate with the symbol shown on the card played, you may advance the pirate until the end of the 
underground passage and let the pirate jump aboard the sloop.
• Move a pirate backwards and pick up one or two new cards (see examples: moves B, D and E).
Select one of your pirates and move it backwards, until you find the first space occupied by one or two 
pirates (they can be yours or belong to another player). When moving backwards, you bypass vacant 
spaces and spaces occupied by three pirates. Also note that a space may be occupied by a maximum of 
three pirates. If your pirate lands on a space occupied by only one pirate, draw 1 card; if your pirate lands 
on a space occupied by two pirates, draw 2 cards. A just drawn card can be used in a following actions of 
the same turn.You are NOT allowed to skip a space occupied by one pirate in order to reach one occupied 
by two of them. 
In case a player has no cards left he may skip his whole turn and draw one card.
Moves may be performed in any order and in any combination the player likes.
END OF THE GAME
The first player to land all his 6 pirates on the sloop wins the game, 
leaving the others behind to their fate of suffering.
THE BASIC GAME: THE ESCAPE
Author: Leo Colovini
Illustrations: Basaglia&Longo
© 2017 studiogiochi
LOGO space

EXAMPLE 2 
The red player moves the pirate backwards 
from space 11 to 9 (D) and draws 2 cards. Then 
the red player moves the pirate backwards 
from the sloop to space 36 (E) to draw a card 
and then plays a lantern card (F) to move the 
pirate from space 13 to the sloop.
EXAMPLE 1
The green player plays a 
rum card (A) and advances 
his pirate from space 7 to 
space 21 (skipping spaces 
11 and 15, since they are 
occupied by other pirates). 
Then the player moves the 
green pirate backwards 
from space 21 to space 
19 (B), drawing 2 cards. 
Finally, the player plays a 
hook card (C) and moves 
the green pirate from the 
jail to space 28 (skipping 
spaces 1,9,14 and 24 as 
they are occupied). 
Note that at the end of 
this turn all the hooks are 
occupied, so playing an 
hook allows you to move 
any pirate directly to the 
sloop.
*
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
+1
(E)
(F)

In addition to the basic version, it is possible to personalize the game, choosing which part of the story to 
replay and selecting parameters, which may influence both the game’s length and complexity. 
All versions presented here may be combined together as the players choose, but must be determined 
before starting the game!
Regardless of which part of the story you decide to replay, you may also choose the number of board 
segments to play with. The more you use, the longer the game will last. 
We suggest starting using 5-6 board segments. To play a short game, use 4 board segments; we 
recommend 7-8 board segments for longer games.
Regardless of which part of the story you decide to replay, it is also possible to play with 4-5 pirates 
instead of 6.
Use the board segments on the 
island-side to create the path 
and thus replay the second 
part of the story. 
The pirates move from 
the flooded sloop to the cove.
To replay the whole story use 3 or more board segments to create the underground passage and 3 or more 
island board segments to create the island’s path. Place the jail board at the beginning of the underground 
passage and a sloop in good shape at the end of the underground passage.
Place the cove board at the end of the island path. The players move their pirates from the jail to the sloop. 
By boat, they move to the other shore and through the island path of Tortuga Island they reach the cove.
The example shows 3 board segments per each path, but it is possible to use more, if you wish!
This version needs additional rules concerning the sloop movement. 
• On their turn, the player may choose the action “Move the Sloop”. To do that, the 
player uses one of their three actions (except for the Captain; please see below).
• If the sloop stands on Cartagena, the player may move it to Tortuga only if the 
player has at least one pirate aboard it.
• If the sloop stands on Tortuga, the player may move it to Cartagena only if the 
player still has at least one pirate in the underground passage.
• The sloop may be occupied by a maximum of three pirates of the same color.
• Once the sloop is moved to Tortuga, players use the action “Play a card and 
advance a pirate” to disembark the pirates, one at a time.
• When the sloop moves back to Cartagena, all pirates aboard stay on the sloop. 
• Captain’s special rule: if at the beginning of their turn a 
player has the largest number of pirates on board (or equal 
in number to those of another player), that player is the 
Captain and can move the sloop before using their three 
actions and consuming none of them.
• As long as the player uses the above mentioned 
rules, the player may move the sloop more than 
once on their turn.
PERSONALIZED VERSIONS
SHORTER/LONGER GAME
IN THE TORTUGA’S ISLAND
THE WHOLE JAILBREAK

Morgan is a new kind of card recharge invented by the pirate Morgan and named after him. Morgan was 
known in all the Caribbean as a sporting person, helpful to his friends with a heart of gold!
In the basic version of the Game the player uses the action “Move a pirate backwards” to draw new cards. 
However, some players seem to prefer a more “altruistic” rule: “Move an opponent pirate onwards and 
draw one or two cards”.
This move changes the whole Game, since even experienced players have to develop new strategies.
How it works 
The player chooses one opponent pirate and moves it forward until it reaches a space occupied by one or 
two pirates. The player bypasses empty spaces and spaces occupied by three pirates. If the pirate moves to 
a space occupied by one pirate, the player draws one card; if the pirate moves to a space occupied by two 
pirates, the player draws two cards. If there are no suitable spaces, the pirate may either jump aboard the 
sloop or reach the cove (depending on its position and on the story replayed). In this case the player draws 
two cards from the deck, regardless of the number of pirates on the sloop or in the cove. 
When you play The Whole Jailbreak the sloop is in the middle and when there are already three pirates of 
the same color on it, no other pirate of that color can jump aboard. 
The players may choose which kind of card recharge to use in a game. 
They can even be used together: for example the basic one playing in the underground passage and the 
Morgan’s one crossing the island, or even both at the same time during the whole path.
In this example, The Whole Jailbreak is played with the “Morgan” recharge.
MORGAN
(b)
(f)
(a)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(g)
EXAMPLE 1: The red 
player may use her right of 
Captain to move the sloop 
to Tortuga (a) (without 
using any action). On 
Tortuga, the red player can 
move the yellow pirate from 
the sloop to space 19 (b), 
drawing two cards. Then, as 
the second action the player 
moves the sloop back to 
Cartagena (c) and plays the 
hook card to move a red 
pirate from space 7 to jump 
aboard the sloop (d).
EXAMPLE 2: The green player may play a rum card and move a pirate from the jail to 
the sloop (e) (skipping spaces 6,12 and 16 as they are already occupied). Afterwards, 
the player moves the yellow pawn from space 36 to the cove (f) (drawing two cards) 
and the blue pawn from space 7 to 10 (g) (drawing another two cards).

According to the Filibuster rule, a player cannot hold more than 7 cards in his hand, but pirates are known to 
be filibusters and therefore they tend not to love rules so much. Consequently, a player can gather as many 
cards as they want, until another player catches him in the act!
Every time a dark background card is used each player (except for the one who played it) has to discard all 
additional cards (over the 7 allowed). Each player can choose which cards to discard.
This rule may be applied or not regardless of the number of board segments, the number of pirates or the 
story replayed.
Advise: Apply this rule while playing the Morgan version. 
The Black Magic Woman is the most recent version of this Game. The feared Caribbean Black Magic Woman 
decided to help the pirates by giving the cards voodoo powers!
Thus, each card has a special power. On a turn, a player using one of these cards can choose one of the 
following:
• Normally move one of his pirates.
• Release the card power saying aloud “Black Magic Woman”. 
Attention! If the player forgets the ritual sentence the power fails and he has to use the normal pirate move.
The Black Magic Woman version also uses the 8 treasure-chest tiles. At the beginning of the game shuffle 
them and place one face down on each treasure-chest symbol on the board.
The magic effect depends on which card is played.
Gun: look at one opponent’s 
cards and pick one of your choice. 
The opponent immediately draws 
another one from the deck.
Rum: buy everybody a drink! Draw as 
many cards as the number of players plus one. 
Keep two of them for you and distribute 
the others among the players, one per player.
Lantern: draw four cards, keep one of them 
for you and place the others on top of the deck 
in the order you choose.
Parrot: play two parrots instead of any card 
of your choice (this consumes only 
one of your three actions).
Hook: play this card together with another one 
(use two of your three actions). According to the second played 
card, you can move at the same time two pirates which are in 
the same space. Please note that the second card may be a hook as well.
Treasure chest: if your pirate is on a treasure chest symbol, you can 
open it (turning it face up) by playing a treasure chest card. 6 out of 8 
treasure-chests offer 1 to 3 cards (to draw from the deck). One treasure chest is empty and the 
last one has a snake on it. If you find the snake	
 , you have to move your pawn backwards to 
the first free rum symbol, where your pirate will get drunk due to the fright he took! If there are 
no rum symbols available, your pirate has to move back to the last available symbol on that path. 
If you find the snake, shuffle all 8 treasure chests and place them face-down randomly on the 6 
treasure chest symbols on the board. Once the treasure chest is opened, it is removed from the 
board. If you are playing with less than 8 board segments, the snake might not appear.
BLACK MAGIC WOMAN
FILIBUSTERS
The red player says 
aloud “Black Magic 
Woman” and plays a 
hook card and 
a lantern card. The 
player moves the two 
red pawns on space 19 
to the cove.