Castle of Magic 
 
A Monster is lurking in the depths of Castle Bondi. The rulers 
of three neighboring countries journeyed to the Castle to 
vanquish the monster but were themselves devoured. When 
they died, the three Items of Power – a Crown, an Amulet, and a 
Scepter – were lost with them. 
 
You and your mysterious companions have come to the Castle to regain these 
items and cast the Ritual Spell. This Spell will either banish the monster forever 
or make it a Wizard’s slave. Each of you is a member of one of three Wizard 
Guilds: the Eagle Lords, the Wolf Mages or the Dragon Masters. Some of your 
companions may be from your Guild, and perhaps you can work together. 
Others may be from a Guild you oppose. There are many secrets to be 
discovered in the Castle and dangers to avoid. 
 
Each of you vies for one of the three countries: Marus, Kida or Sorrell. Learn 
which Item of Power – Crown, Amulet or Scepter – must be won to rule your 
country. Discover how to cast the Ritual Spell so that the fate of the Monster is 
decided to your advantage. There are eight possible results for the Ritual Spell, 
some of which lead to death! Most importantly, uncover secrets about the other 
players and what devious goals they have. Find other Wizards you can work 
with in order to win together. 
 
COMPONENTS 
 
Game Board 
Colored Playing Pawns 
Wizard Cards 
Colored Talk Chips (1” poker chips) 
Move Cards 
Large Black Pawn 
Secret Cards 
Colored Disks 
Blue Ritual Result 
Squares 
Cards: Crown, Amulet, Scepter 
Green Country Squares 
Card Holders (for Crown, Amulet & 
Scepter) 
Sheet of Labels (for Ritual 
and Country squares) 
Pad of 24 Tracking Sheets 
 

THE CASTLE 
 
 
SETUP 
 
 
1. Before playing the first time, place the labels 
numbered 1 through 8 on the eight blue squares. 
Also place the Marus, Kida and Sorrell labels on 
the three green squares. The labels belong in the 
indented circle on the bottom of the square. 
 
2. Mix up the blue squares numbered 1 through 8. 
Without looking at the numbers, place them face 
down in the eight Ritual Result spaces on the 
board. 
 
3. Mix up the green squares labeled Marus, Kida and 
Sorrell . Without looking at the words, place them 
face down in the three Country spaces on the 
board. 
 
4. Fold the Crown/Amulet/Scepter cards and put 
them in the green card holders. Set them aside for 
play. 
 
5. Shuffle the secret cards. Shuffle the move cards. 
Set both decks near the playing board. 
 
6. Place one of the three colored disks at the center 
(start space) of each of the Ritual Indicators as 
follows: Green on the Bell, Blue on the Book and 
Red on the Candle Indicator. 
 
7. Place the Large Black Pawn on the Start space in 
the center of the board. 
 
8. Each player takes a Tracking Sheet and finds 
something to write with. Fold the Tracking Sheet 
in half so that “Public Information” is on the outside 
and face up. 
 
9. If anyone is playing the game for the first time, set 
aside the seven Advanced Wizard cards. These 
cards have the word “ADVANCED” in the upper 
left hand corner. 
 
10. 
Mix up the remaining Wizard cards and allow 
each player to choose one at random (face down). 
A Wizard card is only seen by that player 
throughout the game. 
 
11. 
Each player selects a playing piece and takes 
a Talk Chip of the same color. Each player rolls 
one die. The player with the highest roll goes first 
with play proceeding clockwise. Each player in 
turn places their playing piece on any unoccupied 
“+1 Spell” space in the Castle Wall section of the 
board. You do not get credit for this space; it is 
only a starting point.

WIZARD CARDS 
 
 
There are sixteen different wizards that can be at Castle Bondi. Each player assumes the role of a wizard by 
drawing a “Wizard” card at random. This card tells you about your wizard, who your allies and enemies are and 
what you want to do at the Castle. Points are scored based on what you and the other players accomplish in 
the game. Players with the highest point totals win the game. 
 
For example, if you get the following wizard card, you are General Rossi, an Eagle Lord. You want to rule the 
country Sorrell and control the Monster. Also you are opposed to any Dragon Masters in the game. 
 

 AMULET POINTS: 
 2X 3 
RULING A COUNTRY 
 
Three powerful magic items (Crown, Amulet and 
Scepter) have been placed in the Castle. Each 
item enables a wizard to rule one specific country. 
If you own an Item at the end of the game, you rule 
its Country. 
 
To own an item you need to have the greatest 
number of points for that item. Control will likely 
change throughout the game. 
 
Example 1: The Red Wizard has five crown points 
and everyone else has three. The Red Wizard 
currently controls the Crown. He places the Crown 
piece in front of him for as long as he has the most 
Crown points. 
 
If two players tie for the most points, nobody 
controls the item and it is placed aside. Keep track 
of your points on your Tracking Sheet. 
Example 2: The Yellow Wizard has just gained an 
amulet point, she records this on her Tracking 
Sheet: 
 
 
Every player starts with two points for each item. 
You will gain and lose points during the game but 
you cannot go below zero. 
 
At the start of each game, it is unknown which item 
rules what country. Learn this information by 
landing on “Learn Country” spaces. See the 
GAMEBOARD 
section 
on 
page 
6.
 
THE RITUAL SPELL 
 
 The Ritual Spell empowers the wizards to banish, 
control or unleash the Monster. Depending on how 
the Spell is cast, there are eight possible Ritual 
Results (listed to the right). Determine the number(s) 
that help you score the most points. At the end of the 
game, one of the Ritual Results will happen. 
 
Example 1: The Green Wizard wants to control the 
Monster. She currently controls the Scepter. She 
wants Ritual Result number 4. 
 
The Ritual Spell is cast by using a Bell, a Book and a 
Candle. During the game, players manipulate each of 
these items to end up in one of two positions. The 
Bell can be ringing or silent. The book can be open 
or closed. The Candle can be lit or unlit. Using the 
three elements together, thee are eight possible 
combinations 
(e.g. 
Ringing-Closed-Lit). 
 
The 
combination at the end of the game determines which 
one of the eight Ritual Results happens. 
 
Learn what Ritual Result a combination gives by 
landing on “Learn Ritual” spaces. Move the elements 
of the Ritual Spell toward the combination you want 
by landing on the “Bell”, “Book” and “Candle” spaces. 
See the GAMEBOARD section on page 6. 
The Eight Ritual Results 
 
1. The Monster is instantly banished. 
 
2. The Monster is controlled by the wearer of the 
Crown. 
 
3. The Monster is controlled by the holder of the 
Amulet. 
 
4. The Monster is controlled by the wielder of the 
Scepter. 
 
5. The Monster devours the wearer of the Crown and 
then is banished. 
 
6. The Monster devours the holder of the Amulet and 
then is banished. 
 
7. The Monster devours the wielder of the Scepter 
and then is banished. 
 
8. The Monster devours all present and then 
rampages through the Countries. 
 
NOTE: A controlled Monster cannot be banished. 
 
NOTE: As you learn information about Countries and Ritual Results, write it down inside your 
 Tracking Sheet. Feel free to take notes on other aspects of the game as well. 

LEARN
RITUAL 1 2 3 4 5 
AMULET 1 2 3 4 5 
PLAYING THE GAME 
 
Each player’s turn has three parts in the following order: 
 
1. MOVEMENT 
 
2. SPELL CASTING 
 
3. COMBAT (optional) 
 
MOVEMENT 
 
Movement can be done in one of two ways: 
 
A. Roll one die and move that number of spaces in 
either direction, or 
 
B. If you have a Move card, you can play it to move 
instead of rolling the die. Discard it and move the 
number indicated on the card in either direction. 
You cannot roll the die first if you want to use a 
Move card. 
 
SPELL CASTING 
 
 
Castle Bondi is filled with magic. Each turn you will 
use this magic to cast one of thirteen spells. The 
space you land on determines the spell you can 
cast. The spells enable you to gain power and 
information. The GAMEBOARD section on the 
following pages describes these spells in detail. 
Spells either automatically work or require a die roll. 
Each spell that requires a die roll has a “Spell 
Level” on your tracking sheet. 
 
Example 1: The Blue Wizard lands on a “Learn 
Ritual” space. This space requires a die roll. His 
Tracking Sheet shows: 
To cast the spell, roll one die. If the result is a 
circled number, the spell works. In Example 1, the 
Blue Wizard needs to roll a one to make the spell 
work. 
 
NOTE: All Spell Levels start with the “1” circled. 
Spell Levels can increase during the game. 
SPELL CASTING (Cont.) 
 
Example 2: The Purple Wizard lands on an 
“Amulet” space. This spell also requires a die roll. 
Her Tracking Sheet says: 
In this case the Purple Wizard needs to roll 1, 2 or 3 
for the spell to work. 
 
NOTE: When you land on a space you must 
attempt to cast that spell. 
 
COMBAT 
 
If you land on the same space as one or more other 
players, you have the option to attack one of them 
and take one Crown, Amulet or Scepter point. To 
attack, declare the type of point you want. The 
defender has two options: surrender or fight. 
 
If he surrenders (an option used for helping allies), 
you take that point. If he chooses to fight, both 
parties roll one die and add their Combat Value to 
the roll. If the Attacker has the higher total, he wins 
and takes the point. If there is a tie or the Defender 
has the higher total, the Defender keeps the point. 
 
NOTE: Combat is the only way Crown, Amulet or 
Scepter points go from one player to another. 

THE GAMEBOARD 
 
Castle Bondi has five areas of interest. Play occurs in three of these: the Castle Wall, the Keep 
and the Wizard’s Tower. The area between the Wall and Keep has information relevant to the 
play of the game: Ritual Result squares, Country squares and the Ritual Indicators (Bell, Book 
and Candle). In the very center of the Castle is the Ritual Spell Count Down which can 
determine when the game ends. 
 
THE CASTLE WALL 
 
 
Play begins on this level. At the Castle Wall, information can be learned. This is also a good place to increase 
your Spell Levels before moving inward to the Keep. 
 
Types of Spells in the Castle Wall 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
+1 SPELLS
 
Circle the next number for the Spell Level of your 
choice. 
MOVE CARD
 
Draw one Move card. 
SECRET
 
Learn a secret about another player. Hand that 
player the Secret Deck. He looks through the 
deck until he finds the first card with his Secret 
Number on it. He then hands you that card. Only 
you look at the information on the card. When 
finished, place the card at the bottom of the Secret 
Deck. 
 
NOTE: It is possible to learn the same secret 
more than once about the same player. 
LEARN RITUAL 
 Die roll needed 
 
Look at the Ritual Result square for the 
combination of your choice. The number on the 
back refers to one of eight Ritual Results. They 
are listed inside your Tracking Sheet. 
BELL, BOOK,
 Die roll needed 
CANDLE 
 
Move the Ritual Indicator disk one space in either 
direction. If moving the disk will put it back in 
the start space, move it beyond to the first space 
on the other side. Once a disk is moved, it is 
always on one side or the other of the start space. 
If a disk moves all the way to one end, it is 
“locked” and cannot be moved again. 
CROWN, AMULET, Die roll needed 
SCEPTER 
 
Gain one point for the item. 
 
NOTE: This may change who controls the item. 
Each item should be in front of the player with the 
most points for it. 
LEARN COUNTRY Die Roll Needed 
 
Look secretly at the Country square for the item 
of your choice. The name on the bottom is the 
country that item rules. 

THE GAMEBOARD (Cont.) 
 
THE KEEP 
 
There is a magical barrier preventing movement 
into the inner levels. The barrier to the Keep will 
drop when the Ritual Spell has begun. This 
happens when a player moves any one of the 
Ritual Indicator disks (Bell, Book or Candle) in 
either direction. 
 
At the start of your turn, after the barrier has 
dropped, you may move from the Castle Wall to any 
unoccupied space of the Keep. This counts as 
movement; finish your turn there. Once you move 
into the Keep, you cannot move back to the Castle 
Wall. Before you move in, be prepared! There are 
no “Learn Ritual” or “Learn Country” spells on this 
level. 
 
New Spell in The Keep 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE WIZARD’S TOWER 
 
As with the Keep, there is a magical barrier 
preventing entry into the Wizard’s Tower. When all 
three of the Ritual Indicator disks have bee moved, 
the barrier goes down and you can move into the 
Tower from the Keep. 
 
As movement, you can move into any unoccupied 
space in the Tower and finish your turn there. Once 
in the Wizard’s Tower, you must remain there until 
the end of the game. 
 
 
New Spell in The Wizard’s Tower 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TALK CHIPS 
 
Each player gets exactly one talk chip for the 
duration of the game. At the beginning of your turn, 
before movement, you may play your talk chip. 
When you this, a “time out” occurs. Any or all 
players may move away from the table and talk 
privately, sharing information based on what they 
have learned. Use this time to find other players to 
work with and plan a strategy to win the game. 
Each player determines how much information to 
share and how truthful to be. It is up to you, the 
players, to set any time limit for talking privately. 
Five to ten minutes should be plenty. Don’t let the 
game bog down, but remember talking privately is 
important and may only occur during a “time out”. 
After the “time out”, discard your talk chip and finish 
your turn.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RiddleMaster Games Design Group: Doug Carr, Sheri Hodge, Tim Hodge, Diane Lillo-Martin, Janislee Marin, 
Robin Marks, Steve Martin, Matt Mayfield, Vicky Mayfield, Blake Montana, Bree Montana, Darryl See, Reed 
See, Rick Smith, Michelle Stephens, Rod Stephens. 
 
Castle of Magic™ is a trademark of Cloud Kingdom Games, 275 Waneka Pkwy Ste 4, Lafayette, CO 80026. 
http://www.CloudKingdom.com 
 
Copyright © 1991, 2002 Cloud Kingdom Games
+1 COMBAT Automatic 
 
Add 1 to your Combat value. 
COUNT DOWN Optional – no die roll 
 
Move the Large Black Pawn down one space. 
 
NOTE: Optional means you do not have to cast 
this spell when you land on this space. 

THE END OF THE GAME 
 
Play ends and the Ritual Spell is cast when one of two things happens: 
 
1. The Bell, Book and Candle have all be “locked”, OR 
 
2. The Large Black Pawn reaches the space marked “Ritual Spell”. At this point, some of the 
Ritual Indicators will not be “locked”. Move any unlocked disks to the closed locked position. 
 
WHO RULES THE COUNTRIES? 
 
Each item is now owned by the wizard with the most points for it. Take the Country square 
for your Item and announce the country you now rule. A tie for an item means nobody owns 
it and the country has no ruler. 
 
BANISH, CONTROL OR RAMPAGE? 
 
The moment the Ritual Spell is cast the fate of the Monster is decided. Turn over the Ritual 
Result square for the final positions of the Bell, Book and Candle. Discover what happens to 
the Monster. Is it banished? Is it controlled – by whom? If the Monster devours one or more 
players they are dead. If a player controlling an item dies, the item is lost and the country has 
no ruler. 
 
WHAT HAPPENS IF… 
 
. . . I control the Monster? Can I banish it or use it to devour someone? The answer is no. 
The moment you control the monster, the game is over. 
 
. . . The Monster is controlled by an item that nobody owns? The Monster rampages! 
 
SCORING 
 
Look at the Scoring section on your Wizard card. First total any points earned in the “You” 
column. Then players reveal who they are (Wolf Mage, Dragon Master or Eagle Lord); 
whether they control the Monster and if they rule a country. Add or subtract points for their 
actions. Be sure to include any points for “the Monster is Banished” and “Nobody Dies.” 
 
Example 1: The Orange Wizard is General Rossi (see page 3). At the end of the game, he 
rules Sorrell (+5000 points) and the Monster is Banished (-2000 points). Another player, an 
Eagle Lord, rules Kida (+2000 points), while a third player, a Dragon Master, rules Marus (-
2000 points). The Orange Wizard’s final score is +3000 points. 
 
The player with the most positive points and all players who have more than half the high 
score are winners.