OBJECTIVE
Castle Panic is a cooperative game. Players 
work together to defend Castle Bravehold 
against hordes of Monsters, using cards to 
hit and slay them as the Monsters advance 
from the Forest. 
To win, players must play through all the 
Monster tokens, slay all the Monsters that 
are revealed, and have at least 1 Tower 
remaining. Players lose if the Monsters 
destroy all 6 of the Castle Towers.
4 Versions
There are four different ways to play Castle 
Panic: Co-op, Master Slayer, Overlord, and 
Solitaire. The Co-op game is described in the 
rules that follow. The Master Slayer, Overlord, 
and Solitaire versions are covered in the 
Game Variations section on p. 12.
Ages: 8 and Up
Numbers of Players: 1 to 6
COMPONENTS
All of the components are described in 
detail on pp. 8–11.
1 Board
49 Castle cards:
Players use cards
to attack the
Monsters and
defend the Castle.
49 Monster tokens:
These are the Monsters
and Special Effects that
the players must survive.
6 Walls with plastic stands:
Walls keep Monsters out of the Castle and 
can be rebuilt if they are destroyed. (The first 
time Castle Panic is played, the plastic stands 
will need to be put on the Walls and Towers.)
6 Towers with plastic stands:
Towers are the heart of the
Castle. If the Monsters destroy
all of the Towers, the players
lose the game.
1 Tar token: This token
is used when the Tar
card is played.
2 Fortify tokens:
These tokens are
used when the
Fortify Wall
card is played.
1 six-sided die:
6 Order of Play cards:
These cards aren’t used
in the game. They are
just helpful reminders
of what to do on a turn.

The board is divided into a series of arcs and 
rings of different colors with Castle Bravehold at 
the center.
An arc is numbered 1–6 and is half of a color.
A color comprises 2 arcs of the same color 
(red, green, or blue).
A ring is 1 of 5 named concentric rings on the 
board (Forest, Archer, Knight, Swordsman, 
Castle).
A space is the smallest unit of area on the 
board and is defined by a ring and an arc 
(e.g., Archer 5).
The outermost ring is the Forest. This ring 
has the arc numbers on it. The numbers are 
where the Monsters will start on the board.
The next ring is the Archer ring. The Knight 
ring is further inward. And the Swordsman 
ring is closest to the Castle.
The center of the board is the Castle ring. This 
is where the Towers of the Castle are placed.
The line between the Swordsman ring and 
the Castle ring is where the Walls of the Castle 
are placed and built.
The order of play and summaries of some 
of the more challenging Monster tokens are 
printed at the corners of the board for easy 
reference during play.
GAME SETUP
No matter which version of Castle Panic is 
played, the game is always set up the same 
way.
Put one Tower in each of the light- colored 
spaces in the Castle ring. Any Tower can go in 
any space.
Put 1 Wall on each of the lines between the 
Castle ring and the Swordsman ring.
Draw 3 Goblins, 2 Orcs, and 1 Troll from the Monster tokens. Place one Monster in 
each arc of the ring labeled Archer. (NOTE: During the rest of the game, Monsters 
will start in the Forest ring. Monsters are placed in the Archer ring during setup only, 
which allows the first player to hit or slay Monsters.)
Players choose which Monster goes into which arc, but there should be only 1 
Monster in each arc. Place each Monster so that the corner with the highest number 
is pointing toward the Castle, as shown here.
3.
Walls
Walls
sPACE
sPACE
SAMPLE SETUP
SAMPLE SETUP
TOWERS
TOWERS
Starting
Starting
Monster
Monster
COLOR
COLOR
ARC
ARC
ring
ring
Monster Tokens
Monster Tokens
TAR TOKEN
TAR TOKEN
Die
Die
Fortify Tokens
Fortify Tokens
THE BOARD

Separate the 6 Order of Play cards from the Castle cards and 
give 1 to each player. Keep this card in view to remember 
the steps of each turn. Set any remaining Order of Play cards 
aside; they will not be used in the game.
Shuffle the Castle cards and deal a hand faceup to each 
player. Since Castle Panic is cooperative, there is no need to 
keep cards secret. The number of cards in the hand depends 
on the number of players. Use the chart below to determine 
how many cards to deal to each player.
Order of Play
Choose a player to go first. Play continues 
clockwise around the board. Each player’s turn 
consists of these 6 phases in this order.
1. Draw up
2. Discard and draw 1 card (optional)
3. Trade cards (optional)
4. Play cards
6. Draw 2 new Monsters
Turn the remaining Monster tokens facedown and mix them 
up. Set them aside—this will be the Monster pile. Leave room 
nearby for a Monster discard pile.
Place the Tar and Fortify tokens nearby for use when the Tar 
and Fortify cards are played.
Place the remainder of the 
Castle deck facedown. This will 
be the draw pile. Leave room 
for a faceup discard pile next to 
the draw pile.
4.
6.
5.
7.
Hand Size

1. Draw Up
Draw back up to a full hand of cards. When 
the deck of Castle cards runs out, reshuffle 
the discards to make a new deck. Because 
each player has a full hand to start the game, 
players do not draw up on their first turn.
2. Discard and Draw 1 Card
At the start of a turn, the player may discard 
1 (and only 1) card from their hand and draw 
a new card to replace it. Players never have to 
discard if they don’t want to.
3. Trade Cards
On their turn, a player can trade cards with 
other players to improve their hand. The 
number of cards players can trade depends 
on the number of players in the game.
4. Play Cards
In this phase, the player can play as many of their cards as possible (as long as they 
match a target or can complete their effect). Cards can be used to attack Monsters, 
slay Monsters, slow them down, build Walls that were destroyed, or even draw more 
cards. Each card is placed faceup into a discard pile as soon as it is played. For more 
details, see the Play Details section on pp. 8–11.
Attacking Monsters
To attack a Monster, a player must be able to “hit” it. In order to hit a Monster, the 
player must play a card that matches both the color and the ring location that a 
Monster is in, as shown below.
Several cards can be used to hit multiple Monsters or the same Monster.
Monsters cannot be hit in the Forest ring.
For a 6-player game, each player can 
make 2 trades on their turn. Each player 
can trade 2 cards with the same player or 
trade 1 card with 2 different players.
Both players choose which cards they 
want to trade, and players never have to 
trade if they don’t want to.
Players can’t trade with a player that 
doesn’t have any cards and can’t simply 
give a card to another player. It has to be 
 a trade.
Trading Cards
2–5
For a 2- to 5-player game, a player can trade 
1 of their cards with 1 card from any other 
player. Each player may make only one trade 
on their turn.
Attack
Monsters
=
ORDER OF PLAY

Only a few cards can hit Monsters once they are in the Castle 
ring. Those cards have a symbol on them to indicate this.
Each time a Monster is hit, it takes 1 point of damage unless 
otherwise specified.
Rotate a hit Monster clockwise so that the next lowest 
number is now pointing toward the Castle. Each type of 
Monster begins with a different number of damage points. 
Goblins have 1 point, Orcs have 2, and Trolls have 3 points.
Slaying Monsters
When a Monster loses their last point, they have been “slain.”
The Monster is then thrown faceup into a Monster discard 
pile.
Slowing Monsters
Some cards do not damage Monsters, but instead slow them 
down or even move them back into the Forest. For more 
information, see the Play Details section.
Building Walls
During the Play Cards phase of a turn, the player can also 
build Walls to replace any that have been destroyed by 
Monsters.
To build a Wall, play both a Brick card and a Mortar card.
6. Draw 2 New Monsters
Draw 2 tokens from the Monster 
pile, turn them faceup, and 
resolve them one at a time, 
completing the first token before 
revealing the second.
If the token is a Goblin, Orc, or 
Troll, roll the die and place the 
Monster in the Forest ring in the 
space that matches the number 
rolled. Place the token with 
the highest numbered corner 
pointing toward the Castle. More 
than one Monster may occupy 
the same space.
Monsters that are in 
the Castle ring move 1 
space clockwise, staying 
in the Castle ring.
Monsters outside the 
Castle move 1 ring 
closer to the Castle.
Walls can be built even if the corresponding Tower has been 
destroyed.
A second Wall cannot be added to a Wall that already exists.
All remaining Monsters on the board move 1 space. See p. 9 of 
the Play Details section for more information.

Strategy
Work with other players to plan ahead. Trading a card 
with another player can be a great way to protect 
Castle Bravehold, even if it’s another player’s turn!
Sometimes the biggest threat to the Castle isn’t always 
clear. Pay close attention to the whole board.
Some cards are more useful than others. Make sure to 
play them at the most advantageous time.
Carefully choose which Monsters to attack when.
The tokens drawn may also be Special Monster tokens: a 
Boss Monster or Monster Effect.
If there are ever not enough Monster tiles in the Monster pile to 
draw the required amount, draw all that remain. The Monster pile 
does not refill.
Once the Monster pile is empty, skip this phase.
For more information on all the Monster tokens, see pp. 10–11 of 
the Play Details section.
End of Turn
After the player has resolved their Monster tokens, the turn is over. The player to the left now begins their turn.
Ending the Game
The game ends when either:
 The last Tower is destroyed, regardless of any Walls remaining (in which case the players lose) OR
 All 49 Monster tokens in the game are played, all the Monsters are slain, and there is at least 1 Tower remaining (in which case the players win).
Boss Monsters attack the Castle as usual and also have a 
special effect that triggers when they are drawn.
Monster Effects are not placed on the board but instead 
affect the players or Monsters and are then discarded.

Joe is playing a 4-player game, so his hand size should be 5 cards. At the start of his turn, Joe has only 4 cards in his hand, Brick, Blue 
Knight, Blue Archer, and a Green Archer. On the board, there is an Orc in the Green Archer ring and a Troll in the Blue Knight ring. 
One Wall has already been destroyed by the Monsters as well.
Phase 1: Draw Up
Joe draws 1 card from the deck, a Red Swordsman card, 
and adds it to his hand.
Phase 2: Discard & Draw 1 Card
Joe can discard and draw 1 card.
He doesn’t need the Blue Archer
card, so he discards it and draws
a new card, Mortar.
Phase 3: Trade Cards
Joe can trade 1 card with another player. With the cards he
has, Joe can hit each of the Monsters on the board once, but
he won’t be able to slay either of them without some help. 
After talking with the other players, Joe offers to trade Katie his 
Red Swordsman card for her Green Archer. She accepts, and 
they make the trade.
Phase 4: Play Cards
Joe plays two Green Archer cards to hit the Orc twice, which slays it.
Joe discards the Orc token faceup into a Monster discard pile.
He then plays one Blue Knight card and hits the Troll for 1 point of 
damage. He rotates the Troll token clockwise so it now
shows 2 damage points. Lastly, Joe plays his
Brick and Mortar cards together, which lets
him build a Wall. Joe places a Wall on the
empty spot between the Swordsman
and Castle ring.
The Troll is the only Monster still on 
the board, so Joe moves it toward the 
Castle, out of the Blue Knight ring and 
into the Blue Swordsman ring.
Joe draws from the Monster pile and turns it faceup.
It’s a Goblin token, so Joe rolls the die and gets a 1. Joe
places the Goblin token in the Forest at the space marked 1. He then 
draws the next Monster token and turns it faceup. It is the Monster 
Effect token “Plague! Archers.” This forces all the players to discard 
any Archer cards they have in their hands. Joe has no cards, so he is 
not affected by this token, but two of his fellow players are. After all 
players have dealt with the Monster Effect token, Joe places it in the 
Monster discard pile and ends his turn.
SAMPLE TURN
Phase 5: Move Monsters
Phase 6: Draw 2 New Monsters

Play Details
At this point in the rules, players have 
learned enough to start playing. The 
following section contains details players 
will need at certain times during the game, 
but they can reference this section during 
play for those specific rules.
Special Terms
Castle Structures Includes any Wall, Tower, 
or Fortify token. (Plus the Wizard’s Tower 
and Keep if you are playing with the 
expansions.)
Hit Cards Are labelled 
at the bottom 
left, and are the 
Archer, Knight, 
Swordsman, and 
Hero cards.
Special Cards Are labelled 
at the bottom left, have 
purple jewels, and unique 
rules. (e.g., Barbarian and 
Nice Shot)
Color Cards Include any card that uses a 
color in their title, such as a Blue Archer. 
This includes “Any Color” cards.
Slaying Monsters
Barbarian This savage warrior can slay 
any Monster anywhere on the board 
(including the Castle ring) except the 
Forest.
Nice Shot This card enhances any regular 
hit card. Play this card with any card 
that hits the targeted Monster, and that 
Monster is slain.
Slowing Monsters
Drive Him Back! Play this card and 
move 1 Monster anywhere on the board 
(including the Castle ring) all the way back 
into the Forest, keeping it in the same 
numbered arc.
Tar This card temporarily stops a Monster 
in its tracks.
Fortify Wall This card reinforces one Wall to 
make it stronger. Play this card and place a 
Fortify token on any 1 Wall.
Missing Play this card to avoid drawing any 
Monster tokens during the Draw 2 New 
Monsters phase of the turn.
Drawing Cards
Draw 2 Cards Play this card to add 2 cards 
to your hand, even if it exceeds the normal 
hand size.
Scavenge Play this card and search through 
the discard pile for any 1 card. Add that card 
to your hand.
“Any Color” Archer, Knight, and 
Swordsman cards can hit Monsters in any 
color of their respective rings.
Hero cards can hit Monsters in the Archer, 
Knight, or Swordsman ring of the color 
shown on the Hero card.
Only Barbarian, Tar, and Drive Him Back! 
can affect Monsters once they are in the 
Castle ring. These cards have a symbol 
on them. 
Monsters moved through Walls and 
Fortify tokens this way are not injured 
and do not destroy the Wall or Fortify 
token.
The Monster will still move on Phase 5.
Play this card and place the Tar token on 
any 1 Monster anywhere on the board, 
including the Forest or the Castle ring.
That monster does not move during the 
Move Monsters phase nor during the 
Draw 2 new Monsters phase of the turn. 
Even if a new Monster token would 
cause the Monster to move, it remains 
where it is.
On the next player’s turn, the Tar token is 
removed and the Monster is hit, slain, or 
moved as usual.
These cards may be played during the 
Play Cards phase of the turn in which they 
were drawn.
In the Overlord version of the game, this 
card prevents the Overlord from drawing 
or playing any Monster tokens.
A Wall can never have more than 1 
Fortify token on it.
When a Monster attacks that Wall, the 
Monster is damaged for 1 point as 
usual, but the Fortify token is removed 
instead of the Wall. The Monster stays in 
the Swordsman ring.
If a Giant Boulder hits a Wall that has 
a Fortify token placed on it, the Giant 
Boulder stops, the Fortify token is 
removed, and the Wall remains in play.
That card may be played during the Play 
Cards phase of the turn in which it was 
drawn.
You may look through the discard pile 
before playing Scavenge.
Playing Cards
Attacking Monsters

All Monster movement is considered 
simultaneous, but Walls stop ALL Monsters 
that hit them.
When a Monster moves from the 
Swordsman ring and a Wall is present, the 
Monster attacks that Wall.
If two or more Monsters move from the 
Swordsman ring to attack a Wall at the 
same time, the Wall is removed and 1 
Monster (players’ choice) takes 1 point of 
damage. The others are unharmed.
All remaining Monsters stay in the 
Swordsman ring until the next Move 
Monsters phase.
If no Wall is present, then Monsters pass 
into the Castle ring with no damage.
The Wall is then removed from the board, 
and the Monster that attacked the Wall 
takes 1 point of damage.
If the Monster still has points remaining, 
that Monster stays in the Swordsman 
ring until the next Move Monsters phase.
All the Monsters stay in the space where 
the Tower was.
Monsters can be stacked to fit.
A Troll at full health attacks the Wall, 
destroying the Wall and taking 1 point of 
damage.
The Troll stays in the Swordsman ring.
Monsters in the Castle Ring
Unlike Walls, Towers do not stop Monster 
movement.
If a Monster moves into the same space 
in the Castle ring as a Tower, the Tower is 
removed and the Monster takes 1 point of 
damage. If the Monster survives, it stays in 
the space where the Tower was, as shown 
here.
Monsters in the Castle ring are not affected 
by Walls. On the next Move Monsters 
phase, that Monster will move clockwise to 
the next Castle ring space.
This movement will continue on each turn 
until that Monster loses its last point or 
the last Tower is destroyed. Towers that 
are destroyed can’t be rebuilt. If all 6 are 
destroyed, the players lose the game—so 
make sure to defend the Towers! Once a 
Monster is in the Castle ring, it can only 
be affected by Castle cards that have the 
symbol on them.
If two or more Monsters move at the same 
time into the same space as a Tower, the 
Tower is removed and 1 Monster (players’ 
choice) takes 1 point of damage. The others 
are unharmed.
Monster movement example:
On Phase 5 of the next turn, the Troll 
moves INTO the Castle ring, destroying 
the Tower and taking 1 point of damage.
On Phase 5 of the following turn, the Troll 
moves 1 space clockwise, destroying the 
Tower in that space and taking its final 
point of damage.
Moving Monsters
Monsters and Walls

Drawing New Monsters
Special Monster Tokens
In addition to the regular Monsters, there are many Special Monster tokens
that have additional abilities.
Boss Monsters
These Monsters attack Castle Bravehold as usual, but they also have a special effect that occurs when 
they are drawn. Boss Monsters can be identified by the gold background of their damage points.
Goblin King
This royal Monster never 
arrives alone. Roll the 
die, and place the Goblin 
King in the Forest. Then 
draw and resolve 3 more 
Monster tokens, rolling 
to place each token 
individually.
Orc Warlord
This fierce warrior leads his 
troops into battle. Roll the die, 
and place the Orc Warlord in 
the Forest. Then move all the 
Monsters, including the Orc 
Warlord, in the same color as 
the Orc Warlord 1 ring closer to 
the Castle or 1 space clockwise 
if they are in the Castle ring.
Healer
His mysterious potion 
rejuvenates his allies. Roll 
the die, and place the Healer 
in the Forest. All Monsters 
on the board regain 1 point 
of damage. If a Monster is 
already at its full health, 
nothing happens.
Boss Monster special effects only occur when they are first drawn. After that, they behave like regular Monsters.
Troll Mage
This giant emboldens all Monsters 
to press the attack. Roll the die, 
and place the Troll Mage in the 
Forest. Then move all Monsters 
on the board, including the Troll 
Mage, 1 ring closer to the Castle or 
1 space clockwise if they are in the 

NOTE: If the Monsters are in the Castle ring, they move 1 space 
clockwise. Remember, the Forest and Castle rings are included in 
the colored arcs.
Monsters Move Clockwise All Monsters move 1 
space (arc) clockwise but stay in the same ring. 
This includes Monsters in the Castle and Forest 
rings.
Monsters Move Counter-Clockwise All Monsters 
move 1 space (arc) counter-clockwise but stay in 
the same ring. This includes Monsters in the Castle 
and Forest rings.
Draw 4 Monster Tokens Draw 4 Monster tokens (in 
addition to the usual 2) and resolve them after all 
other tokens are resolved.
Draw 3 Monster Tokens Draw 3 Monster tokens (in
addition to the usual 2) and resolve them after all 
other tokens are resolved.
All Players Discard 1 Card Each player must choose 
1 card from their hand and discard it. If a player
doesn’t have any cards, that player takes no action.
Plague! Swordsmen All Players must discard all the 
Swordsman cards in their hands.
Plague! Knights All Players must discard all the 
Knight cards in their hands.
Plague! Archers All Players must discard all the 
Archer cards in their hands.
Monster Effects
These tokens are not placed on the board but instead affect the 
players or the Monsters in different ways and are then placed in 
the Monster discard pile. These tokens have small symbols on 
them to help explain their effect.
Monsters in Blue Move 1 All Monsters in the
Blue arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
Monsters in Red Move 1 All Monsters in the
Red arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
Monsters in Green Move 1 All Monsters in the
Green arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
Giant Boulder
The Monsters have pushed a Giant Boulder from the forest, 
and it’s rolling right toward Castle Bravehold! In their 
eagerness to attack, however, they may not have noticed that 
some of their friends might be in the way. Or maybe they just 
don’t care!
Unlike Monsters, Giant Boulders are never placed on the 
board. Instead, they instantly resolve as if they were rolling 
all the way across the board, starting in the Forest, and 
destroying everything in their path until they hit and destroy 
a Wall, Tower, or Fortify token.
Roll the die to determine which arc the Boulder starts in.
The Boulder immediately “rolls” within that arc straight 
across the board toward the arc on the opposite side of 
the board.
All Monsters in that numbered arc are destroyed, 
including any in the Forest ring. These Monsters are NOT 
kept as trophies (if playing the Master Slayer version); 
they are placed in the Monster discard pile.
Giant Boulders are the only way Monsters can be 
damaged while in the Forest ring.
The Boulder does not stop until it hits the first Castle 
structure in its path (a Wall, Tower, or Fortify token) and 
destroys it.
If there are no Walls or Towers in the starting arc, the 
Boulder continues rolling through the Castle ring and 
into the opposite arc.
If no Wall or Tower is present in that arc either, the 
Boulder continues towards the Forest, destroying any 
Monsters in its path.
After resolving any damage, the Giant Boulder token is 
discarded.

1212
GAME VARIATIONS
Master Slayer
In this version, players keep the Monsters they slay as trophies. 
Monsters slain by anything other than hits, such as Walls or 
Giant Boulders, are discarded. The top point value on the 
Monster indicates how many victory points it is worth. Boss 
Monsters are worth 4. If at least 1 Tower is standing when the 
last Monster is slain, each player adds up their victory points. 
The player with the most points is the Master Slayer. In case of a 
tie, the player who slayed the most Monsters wins.
Choose 1 Monster from their hand and place it in any arc of 
the Forest ring they choose.
OR
Choose 2 Monsters (including Boss Monsters), 2 Monster 
Effects tokens, or 1 of each from their hand. Roll the die for 
each Monster, placing them in the numbered arc of the Forest 
ring that matches the number rolled, and resolve the Monster 
Effects tokens as usual.
The Overlord can play up to 2 tokens normally but does not have 
to play any tokens if they choose not to.
The Overlord cannot choose which arc Giant Boulders start in. 
They must roll the die as usual.
When the Overlord plays either the Draw 3 Monster tokens, 
Draw 4 Monster tokens, or Goblin King token, they draw the 
indicated number of tokens and add them to their hand. The 
Overlord can then play that same number of tokens, but they 
do NOT need to be the same tokens that were just drawn. This is 
the only way the Overlord can play more than the usual 2 tokens 
on their turn. Any Monsters that are placed at this time MUST be 
placed randomly by rolling the die. The Overlord cannot choose 
their starting place.
The Castle card Missing prevents the Overlord from drawing or 
playing any Monster tokens, but any Monsters on the board are 
still moved.
Overlord
In this version of the game, one player becomes the Overlord 
and takes command of the Monsters while the other players 
work together to defend Castle Bravehold.
Choose a player to become the Overlord. Setup is the same as 
the Standard game except the Overlord player is not counted 
as a player and does not receive any cards since he or she will 
be working against the Castle players. Instead, he or she draws 
a hand of 3 Monster tokens and keeps them hidden from the 
Castle players.
The Overlord player’s turn consists of these 3 steps in this order.
The Overlord takes his or her turn at the end of each Castle 
player’s turn, replacing phases 5 and 6 of that Castle player’s 
turn.
After a Castle player has played their cards in phase 4, that 
Castle player’s turn ends. The Overlord player’s turn now begins. 
The Overlord moves the monsters on the board and then draws 
Monster tokens until he or she has 3 in his or her hand. Now, the 
Overlord must play Monster tokens in one of two ways.
Move Monsters
Draw up to a hand of 3 Monster tokens
Play Monster tokens
3.
Solitaire Game
Castle Panic can even be played as a solo game by just one 
player. All the standard rules apply to the solitaire version with 
the exception that the player draws up to a hand of 6 cards. Also, 
during the Discard and Draw phase, the player may Discard up 
to 2 cards at once (instead of just 1), and then Draw 2 cards to 
replace those. There is no Trade Cards phase, as there is no one to 
trade with. Be prepared for a challenging game!

1313
My Home Is My Castle—The King’s Tower When fewer than 6 
players are using the “My Home Is My Castle” Optional Rule, 1 
unclaimed Tower is designated as the King’s Tower. If the King’s
Tower is destroyed, all players
must immediately discard one
card. For the rest of the game,
the normal hand size is reduced
by 1 card. The players now draw
up to the following hand sizes:
OPTIONAL RULES:
After playing the standard game, players may want to include 
some of these optional rules to change the game.
Less Panic
For an easier game, try playing with some of these rules:
Easier Battles For younger players, or for a quicker game, try 
removing the following Monster tokens from the game:
Dwindling Resources Each time the Castle Deck is shuffled, 
remove 1 Brick and 1 Mortar card from the game.
Under Construction Set up the game as usual, but do not put 
any Walls on the board. Players start the game with no Walls in 
play. Better get busy building . . .
Under Construction—Random Walls The game begins with no 
Walls in play. Instead, the die is rolled to determine how many 
walls will be in play at the start of the game. Then, the die is 
rolled to determine the arc in which each Wall will be placed. If 
a number is rolled where a Wall already exists, the die is rerolled 
until a new placement is determined.
Under Construction—Player Walls The game begins with no 
Walls in play but with each player holding 1 Wall in his or her 
possession. During any of their turns, each player may place 
their Wall at any available Wall space during the Play Cards 
phase. The players do not need to play Brick and Mortar cards 
to put these Walls into play; the players simply choose where to 
place the Walls.
Rough Start Instead of setting up the game by placing the 
standard set of Monster tokens on the board, players draw 3 Orcs 
and 3 Trolls. The die is rolled for each token, and each Monster is 
placed in the Archer ring that matches the number rolled.
As another option, players may simply choose a set number 
of Walls (e.g., 3) that they wish to start the game with and 
roll the die to determine where to place those Walls.
All for One! Play 1 Archer, Knight, and Swordsman card of the 
same color to slay 1 Monster anywhere in that colored arc (except 
the Forest or Castle ring) instead of merely hitting it.
Heroic Powers Hero cards can now hit 1 Monster in the Castle 
ring of their color as well as the Archer, Knight, and Swordsman 
rings for 1 point of damage.
Desperate Times Call for Desperate Measures Before the Draw 
Up phase of a player’s turn, they may discard their entire hand 
and draw up to a full hand of new cards. On that turn, they must 
skip both the Trade Cards and the Play Cards phases. The player 
must still perform the Move Monsters and Draw 2 New Monsters 
phases as usual.
Draw 4 Monsters
Orc Warlord
Troll Mage
Plague! Swordsmen
Plague! Knights
1 Monsters in Green Move
1 Monsters in Red Move
1 Monsters in Blue Move
3 Giant Boulders
1–2
A Little More Panic
So, players think the game’s too easy? Try playing with some of 
these rules for more of a challenge:
My Home Is My Castle At the start of the game, each player 
chooses 1 Tower as their own. Play continues as normal, but if a 
player’s Tower is destroyed, that player is out of the game. When 
playing with fewer than 6 players, the extra Towers are backups 
and can be claimed by a player that loses their starting Tower. 
Only the surviving players count their scores for the Master Slayer 
version.

Friends Close, Enemies Closer Instead of playing with Castle 
cards faceup, players play with closed hands. They may discuss 
strategy and tell other players what cards they have, but they are 
not allowed to show their cards to each other.
Not Over Yet If there are not enough Monster tokens remaining 
in the Monster pile to complete Phase 6, shuffle the Monster 
discard pile facedown and continue drawing the required 
number of Monster tokens from that pile.
A Lot More Panic
Monster Recycling Program Instead of discarding Monsters that 
are destroyed by Giant Boulders or by attacking Walls or Towers, 
players shuffle those Monsters facedown into the Monster pile so 
they can return to the fight later.
Final Charge! When all the Monster tokens have been drawn 
and the last Monsters have been placed on the board, the Move 
Monsters phase changes for every player’s turn. From then on, 
the die is rolled to see what special movement occurs after the 
Move Monsters phase. The Monsters then move according to the 
following chart:
Overlord Variations
More Minions The Overlord draws up to a hand of 4 Monster 
tokens but still plays tokens in the usual way (2 tokens in the 
Forest ring determined by rolling the die or 1 in any arc of the 
Forest ring they choose).
Secret Forces Before the start of the game, the Overlord player 
chooses one Monster token and sets it aside facedown. (This 
token does not count toward the number of tokens the Overlord 
may keep in their hand.) The Overlord may play this token on 
their turn, following the normal Overlord play rules (2 tokens in 
the Forest ring determined by rolling the die or 1 in any arc of the 
Forest ring they choose).
Monstrous Choices Each time the Overlord draws up to a hand 
of 3 Monster tokens, they may remove 1 token from their hand, 
draw a new Monster token to replace it, and shuffle the old token 
facedown into the Monster pile.
Die Roll
Result
Red Monsters Move 1
Green Monsters Move 1
Blue Monsters Move 1
Monsters Move Clockwise
All Monsters Move 1
Monsters Move Counter-Clockwise
The Charging Horde Players draw and resolve 3 Monster tokens 
instead of 2 during Phase 6 of each player’s turn. For a slightly 
easier variation, each player may make 2 trades on their turn (2 
cards with the same player or 1 card with 2 different players).

Castle Name: Jacob R. Jackson
Playtesters:
Gary and Lisa Anselmo-Marnach, Kim, Oriana, and Skylar Barthelmes, Angela Bumstead, Heidi Burau, Neal Carter, Mary Crawford, Cleveland Dear, Eric 
and Karyn Derby, Lauren Gilbert, Lindsey Gilbert, Adam Gretencord, Joel Hobbs, Owen Houd, Laura James, Pauline Johnson, Rene and Thad Martin, 
Madeline, Michelle, and Kyle Parsons, Meredith and Steve Paterson, Scott Peterson, Dillon Pittman, Hannah Pritchard, Isaac Reyes, Lauren Rincon, 
Gabby Ruenes, Jesse Samford, Chris, Corey, and Steve Souza, Ariana Triesault, Melanie Ulrich, Susan, Mike, David, and Gabriel Walker, Anne Woods, 
James Zuniga
Special Thanks to:
Rick and Roberta De Witt, Jim Gardner, Sibone Jacques, Phil Reed
© 2009, 2011, 2015, 2016, 2019, 2021 Fireside Games, LLC. Castle Panic and all game and company logos and slogans are trademarks 
or registered trademarks of Fireside Games, LLC. P.O. Box 151164, Austin, TX, 78715. All rights reserved. No part of this product may be 
reproduced without permission from the publisher. Please retain this information for future reference. 
CREDITS
Game Design by Justin De Witt Editing by Anne-Marie De Witt Graphic Design by Matt Paquette and Justin De Witt 
Development by Justin and Anne-Marie De Witt Illustration by Tad Lambert Layout by Sam Simons 
DEI Consultant: Timm Metivier 
The Wizard’s Tower
Cast powerful spells as a 
wizard joins your forces. Fight 
flying, climbing, fire-breathing 
Monsters, and face down the 
beastly Mega Bosses.
ENGINES OF WAR
Use the Engineer to build 
Catapults, Ballistas, Barricades, 
and more. Survive the attack 
from enemy Siege Engines and 
even more powerful Monsters.
Crowns and Quests
Play as a royal or friend 
of the court with unique 
abilities that help you 
complete special quests 
to win the game.
The dark titan
Enlist the Cavalier and 
Support Tokens as you make 
your stand against Agranok 
and his new Monsters.
If you are ready to take your play to a new level, 
pick up the expansions.

Barbarian Play this card and slay any Monster anywhere 
on the board (including the Castle ring) except the 
Forest.
Draw 2 Cards Play this card to add 2 cards to your hand, 
even if it exceeds the normal hand size. These cards may 
be played during the Play Cards phase of the turn in 
which they were drawn.
Drive Him Back! Play this card and move 1 Monster all 
the way back into the Forest, keeping it in the same 
numbered arc.
Fortify Wall Play this card and place a Fortify token 
on any 1 Wall. When a Monster attacks that Wall, the 
Monster is damaged for 1 point as usual, but the Fortify 
token is removed instead of the Wall. The Monster stays 
in the Swordsman ring. If a Giant Boulder hits a Wall that 
has a Fortify token placed on it, the Giant Boulder stops, 
the Fortify token is removed, and the Wall remains in 
play.
Missing Play this card to avoid drawing any Monsters 
during the Draw 2 new Monsters phase of the turn. In 
the Overlord version of the game, this card prevents the 
Overlord from drawing or playing any Monster tokens.
Nice Shot Play this card with any card that hits a
Monster, and that Monster is slain.
Scavenge Play this card and search through the
discard pile for any 1 card. Add that card to your 
hand. That card may be played during the Play 
Cards phase of the turn in which it was drawn.
Tar Play this card and place the Tar token on any
1 Monster anywhere on the board, including 
the Forest or the Castle ring. That monster does 
not move during the Move Monsters phase nor 
during the Draw 2 new Monsters phase of the 
turn. Even if a new Monster token would cause 
the Monster to move, it remains where it is. On 
the next player’s turn, the Tar token is removed 
and the Monster is hit, slain, or moved as usual.
Boss Monsters
Goblin King Roll the die, and place the Goblin
King in the Forest. Then draw and resolve 3 
more Monster tokens.
Orc Warlord Roll the die, and place the Orc 
Warlord in the Forest. Then move all the 
Monsters, including the Orc Warlord, in the 
same color as the Orc Warlord 1 ring closer to 
the Castle or 1 space clockwise if they are in the 
Troll Mage Roll the die, and place the Troll Mage
in the Forest. Then move all Monsters on the
board, including the Troll Mage, 1 ring closer to
the Castle or 1 space clockwise if they are in the
Healer Roll the die, and place the Healer in the
Forest. All Monsters on the board regain 1 point
of damage. If a Monster is already at its full 
health, nothing happens.
Monster Effects
Monsters in Blue Move 1 All Monsters in the 
Blue arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
Monsters in Red Move 1 All Monsters in the 
Red arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
Monsters in Green Move 1 All Monsters in the 
Green arc move 1 ring closer to the Castle.
NOTE: If the Monsters are in the Castle ring, 
they move 1 space clockwise. Remember, the 
Forest and Castle rings are included in the 
colored arcs.
Monsters Move Clockwise All Monsters 
move 1 space clockwise but stay in the 
same ring. This includes Monsters in the 
Castle and Forest rings.
Monsters Move Counter-Clockwise 
All Monsters move 1 space counter-
clockwise but stay in the same ring. This 
includes Monsters in the Castle and 
Forest rings.
Plague! Archers All Players must discard 
all the Archer cards in their hands.
Plague! Knights All Players must discard 
all the Knight cards in their hands.
Plague! Swordsmen All Players must 
discard all the Swordsman cards in their 
hands.
All Players Discard 1 Card Each player 
must choose 1 card from his or her hand 
and discard it. If a player doesn’t have 
any cards, that player takes no action.
Draw 3 Monster Tokens Draw and 
resolve 3 additional Monster tokens.
Draw 4 Monster Tokens Draw and 
resolve 4 additional Monster tokens.
Giant Boulder
Roll the die to determine which arc the 
Boulder starts in. All Monsters in that 
numbered arc are destroyed, including 
any in the Forest ring. The Boulder stops 
rolling only when it hits and destroys a 
Wall, Tower, or Fortify token. This may 
mean the Boulder continues rolling 
through the Castle ring and into the 
opposite arc.
SUMMARY PAGE
Many of the game’s play details are summarized on this page. Keep this side up as a reference during play.
Hand Size
Order of Play
1. Draw up
2. Discard and draw 1 card (opt)
3. Trade cards (opt)
4. Play cards
6. Draw 2 new Monsters
Trading Cards
2–5