STONEMAIER GAMES WITH BÉZIER GAMES
PRESENT
The king demands a castle! You are a world-renowned master builder who has been asked by the Mad 
King Ludwig to help design his castles. Projects of such significance require the expertise of more than 
one person, so for each assignment you are paired with another master builder to execute your grandiose 
plans. Will your planning and collaborative skills be enough to design the most impressive castles in the 
world? 
Between Two Castles of Mad King Ludwig is a tile-drafting game in which each tile is a room in a castle. 
You work together with the player on your left to design one castle, and with the player on your right 
on another castle. On each turn you select two tiles from your hand, reveal them, then work with your 
partners to place one of your selected tiles into each of your two castles. 
At the end of the game, each castle is scored. Your personal final score is the lower of the scores of the two 
castles you helped design, and the player with the highest final score wins the game. To win, you have to 
share your attention and your devotion between two castles.
designed by Ben Rosset & Matthew O’Malley 
art by Agnieszka Dąbrowiecka, Laura Bevon, and Bartłomiej Kordowski
3-7 players (with 2 player variant) · 45-60 minutes · Ages 10+
147 regular room tiles 
(21 each of food, living, utility, outdoor, 
sleeping, corridor, downstairs)
48 specialty room tiles 
(fountains, grand foyers, towers)
7 throne room tiles 
(classified as specialty rooms)
7 player aids
28 royal 
attendants
20 bonus cards	
7 castle tokens
 Scoring sheets	
COMPONENTS
BETWEEN TWO ROOMS
SCULLERY
SCHOOLHOUSE
1 per connected
AVIARY
TYPE
BONUS FOR 5 OF ANY REGULAR ROOM TYPE
CHOOSE ANY 
OTHER BONUS
PLACE 1 IN THRONE ROOM
SCORING
BONUS FOR 3
connected
regular and
specialty room
type
CASTLE NAME:
CATEGORIES
INDIVIDUAL ROOM SCORES
TOTAL
1 TOWERS
5 FOUNTAINS
1 GRAND FOYERS
1 per ROYAL ATTENDANTS
 THRONE ROOM
TOTAL SCORE
B2CaRules_r13.indd 1

SETUP
Sit around a table with equal space between players. The castles will be 
built between the players.
NOTE: If this is your second consecutive game, mix up the seating 
assignments randomly (by order of age, birth month and day, hair 
length, etc.).
1.	 Shuffle the 7 throne rooms tiles and place 1 between each pair 
of players (where the castles will be built). Place a wooden castle 
token (found inside the tile tray) on the table below each throne 
room. Remaining throne room tiles and castle tokens can be put 
away.
2.	 Give 1 player aid to each player. Remaining player aids can be put 
away.
3.	 Set the small tray containing the double-sided specialty rooms (fountains, towers, 
and grand foyers) and the royal attendants (painter, knight, fire juggler, and 
beautician) in the middle of the table. IMPORTANT: Do not mix these tiles in with the 
rest of the regular room tiles. 
4.	 Place the large tray in the middle of the table with all the regular room tiles face 
down as shown below. The tray is designed for each compartment to hold exactly 9 
tiles. If you didn’t shuffle the tiles at the end of the previous game, you will need to 
shuffle them on the table before placing them in the tray.
5.	 Shuffle the bonus cards and place them as a face-down stack in the small tray.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 2

BUILDING YOUR CASTLES
Each castle is “side-view”. Your throne room is at the 
ground level. From your throne room, your castle can 
be expanded “up” and “out” in all directions. Placing a 
tile above your throne room (e.g., the Firewood Storage 
shown here) starts another floor of the castle, and makes 
the castle taller. A tile placed next to your throne room 
(e.g., the Wine Room shown here) is on the same floor 
of the castle as your throne room, and makes the castle 
wider.
NOTE 1: All tiles you place above the ground level must 
be supported by a tile below, as seen in the example to 
the right. Tiles on the ground level or below ground 
must be adjacent to other tiles, but do not have support 
requirements.
NOTE 2: There is no limit to the height or width that your 
castles can reach, as long as all placement requirements 
are met.
NOTE 3: All tiles in a castle must be oriented in the same 
direction so that you and your partner can read the room 
name on the tile, and all tiles must be placed adjacent 
to at least one other tile in the castle (they must share 
an edge). This means that of the first 2 tiles you place in 
your castle, at least one of them must be adjacent to your 
throne room. 
NOTE 4: Food, living, utility, outdoor, and sleeping rooms 
can only be placed at the ground level (throne room 
level) or above. Corridor rooms can be placed on 
any level of your castle, including below ground, and 
downstairs rooms can only be placed below ground. 
There is a reminder of this on your player aid.
TYPE
BONUS FOR 5 OF ANY REGULAR ROOM TYPE
CHOOSE ANY 
OTHER BONUS
PLACE 1 IN THRONE ROOM
SCORING
BONUS FOR 3
connected
The arrows circled in red 
show where a room type can 
be placed.
GAMEPLAY: OVERVIEW
The game is played in 2 rounds. At the start of each round, you draw a hand of 9 tiles. On each turn, you secretly 
choose 2 tiles to place face-down in front of you, and pass the rest of your hand to the next player. To finish your 
turn, you flip your 2 selected tiles face up and—after discussion with your partners—place 1 of them in each of your 
two castles.
The tiles you select and their positioning in the castle determine how many points you score at the end of the game. 
The King’s Chambers cannot be placed here (on the second floor of 
the castle) until there is a room underneath to support it
New tiles must share an edge with at least one existing tile. 
You and your partner can choose the order in which your two tiles 
are placed into the castle each turn.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 3

GAMEPLAY: DETAILS
Players conduct the steps below simultaneously.
ROUND ONE
Draw 9 regular room tiles from the tray and hold them 
secretly in your hand. Then take the following steps in order:
1.	 CHOOSE: Secretly, and without any communication 
about the game with other players, choose 2 of the 
tiles from your hand to play. Place the remaining 
tiles face-down underneath the castle token to your 
left. This signals to the other players that you have 
finished choosing your tiles. When you have finalized 
your choice, you may not change it.
2.	 REVEAL: Once all players have chosen their tiles, all 
players simultaneously reveal their chosen tiles.
3.	 PLACE: You may now openly discuss strategy with 
your partners to determine the best location for your 
chosen tiles. You must place one of the tiles you chose 
into the castle to your left, and the other into the 
castle to your right. You can choose which tile goes 
into which castle after discussion with your partners. 
You may discuss anything you want with your partners 
during the Place step, including which tiles are in the 
stack you just passed to them. 
During each turn, 2 tiles will be placed into each castle 
(1 comes from you and 1 comes from your partner). You 
and your partner can choose the order in which the 2 
tiles are placed into the castle.
After ending the Place step, tiles in the castles are set in 
place and cannot move.
Very rarely it may happen that both players working on 
a castle do not want to place tiles until the other player 
places first (in the spirit of partnership, we discourage 
this, but it can happen). If this happens, the oldest of the 
players places first.
REPEAT: If there is more than 1 tile under the castle token 
to your right, take those tiles and choose, reveal, and 
place again. When there is only 1 tile remaining under 
the castle, discard it face-down out of the game, and 
begin round two.
ROUND TWO
Round two follows the same steps as round one, except 
that you put your remaining tiles face-down under the 
castle token to your right, and you pick up your tiles 
from your left.
ROOM BONUSES AND SCORING
Whenever you place your 3rd tile of the same regular room type anywhere 
into your castle (e.g., 3rd sleeping room, 3rd living room, 3rd food room, 
etc.), the castle immediately (before placing any additional tiles) receives the 
specific bonus for that tile type. You and your partner for that castle should 
discuss and place the bonus together.
There is also a bonus whenever you place your 5th tile of the same regular 
room type (e.g., 5th sleeping room, 5th living room, 5th food room, etc.). 
When you do, immediately choose any 1 specialty room tile (even if you 
already have that same tile) and place it in your castle.
There is no bonus for 6 or more of a regular room type, nor is there a bonus 
for having 3 or 5 specialty rooms in your castle.
Your player aid describes the scoring and bonuses for each room type. Each 
room in your castle is scored separately at the end of the game.
SERVANT’S QUARTERS
IN-LAW SUITE
SPECIFIC 
BONUS
SERVANT’S QUARTERS
SOLAR
IN-LAW SUITE
B2CaRules_r13.indd 4

FOOD ROOMS
Each food room has 1 type of room that it wants to be either directly above and 
below it or directly to the left and right of it. The food room receives 2 points for 
each room it wants that is in the correct position. For instance, the Wine Room will 
score 2 points for a sleeping room directly above it, and 2 points for a sleeping room 
directly below it.
The Chocolate Room and Spice Room are a bit different. They score 2 points for a 
downstairs room in each of the two spaces below them.
A food room can score a maximum of 4 points.
When you place your 3rd food room, immediately draw 5 tiles from the supply 
of face-down regular room tiles. Choose 1 of those tiles to place into your castle. 
Discard the other 4 out of the game. 
If the tile you choose to place into your castle is the third (or fifth) tile of a 
particular type, take the new bonus for that type immediately after you place the 
tile, like normal. Example: You already have 2 living rooms in your castle, and with the 
food room bonus you choose to place a new living room into your castle. This gives you 3 
living rooms. You should now immediately take the living room bonus for having 3 living 
rooms.
In the case that there are not 5 available regular room tiles remaining to be drawn, 
shuffle all the regular room tiles previously discarded back into the draw pile. Then 
draw 5 tiles.
CHOCOLATE ROOM
It’s best to place 
a food room 
directly next to 
the rooms it will 
service.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 5

LIVING ROOMS
Each living room has a particular type of room that it wants to be surrounded by, 
and it scores 1 or 2 points for each of that room type that surrounds it. For instance, 
the Map Room scores 1 point for each sleeping room surrounding it.
NOTE: The throne room counts as 1 point for living rooms that want to be surrounded 
by speciality rooms. 
Most living rooms can score a maximum of 8 points. Those that want to be 
surrounded by outdoor or downstairs rooms can score a maximum of 6.
When you place your 3rd living room, immediately choose to place a royal 
attendant into one of the two spots for it in your throne room. At the end of the 
game, you will score 1 point for every room in your castle with the wall hanging 
shown for that royal attendant. 
For instance, if you choose to put a Painter into your throne room, you will score 1 
point for every painting in your castle at the end of the game. 
The Chocolate Room is an example of a room with a painting.
You can use the downstairs room bonus to place another royal attendant in your 
throne room. It can be the same or a different royal attendant. If it is the same, you 
will now score 2 points for every room in your castle with that wall hanging.
MAP ROOM
Living rooms are 
at the center of 
the action.
CHOCOLATE ROOM
B2CaRules_r13.indd 6

UTILITY ROOMS
Each utility room shows one room type that it wants to be connected to. The utility 
room scores 1 point for each room of that type that is connected to it. A room is 
considered “connected” if you can trace a path back to the utility room using only 
that room type. For instance, the game storage will score 1 point for each connected 
living room.
In the example shown, the Game Storage scores 5 points, because there are 
5 connected living rooms (numbered 1 through 5). Note that the Taxidermy 
Showroom to the left of the throne room is not connected to the Game Storage 
because you cannot trace a line from the Taxidermy Showroom to the Game 
Storage using only living rooms.
When you place your 3rd utility room, immediately draw 3 bonus cards. Choose 1 
of them to keep, and set it face-up beneath the castle. Discard the other two out of 
the game. At the end of the game, your castle will score points based on how well it 
meets the conditions shown on the card you kept. A list of the bonus cards and how 
they score are found on page 15.
In the rare case that there are not 3 bonus cards available to draw, shuffle the bonus 
cards that were previously discarded back into the draw pile, then draw 3. 
Utility rooms 
are most useful 
when connected 
to the rooms 
utilizing them.
There is no maximum to the number of points a utility room can score.
FIREPLACE
MAP ROOM
READING ROOM
SALON
B2CaRules_r13.indd 7

OUTDOOR ROOMS
Each outdoor room has a particular type of room that it wants in the castle. It 
scores 1 point for each room of that type present anywhere in the castle. They do 
not have to be adjacent to the outdoor room. For instance, the Grand Balcony 
scores 1 point for every sleeping room in the castle.
There is no maximum to the number of points an outdoor room can score.
IMPORTANT: Outdoor rooms have blue borders, meaning they are open to the sky. No 
room tile may be placed above a blue-bordered room, as seen in the example below. 
The outdoor room itself may be placed above rooms with other borders, also seen in 
the example below.
You may always place other rooms to the right or left of a blue-bordered room.
When you place your 3rd outdoor room, immediately 
place a fountain.
Fountains are a specialty room type and can be placed 
at the throne room level or above. They always score 5 
points.
IMPORTANT: Fountains have the same limitation as outdoor 
rooms—room tiles cannot be placed above them.
GRAND BALCONY
The landscaping 
should represent 
the character of 
the castle.
“Who doesn’t like a fountain?”
GRAND BALCONY
B2CaRules_r13.indd 8

SLEEPING ROOMS
Each sleeping room scores 4 points if your castle has all 6 other regular room types 
by the end of the game. It does not matter where in the castle the other room types 
are placed. 
Each sleeping room scores 1 point if your castle does not have all 6 other regular 
room types by the end of the game.
A sleeping room can score a maximum of 4 points.
When you place your 3rd sleeping room, 
immediately place a tower.
Towers are a specialty room type and can be placed 
at the throne room level or above. They are worth 1 
point for each room below them, including rooms 
beneath the throne room level. For instance, the 
tower in the example to the right scores 4 points.
There is no limit to the number of points a tower can 
score.
IMPORTANT: Towers have the same limitation as outdoor 
rooms—room tiles cannot be placed above them.
The Mad King 
wants plenty of 
variety in his 
surroundings.
“What an amazing view from 
the top of this tower!”
B2CaRules_r13.indd 9

CORRIDOR ROOMS
CAN BE PLACED ANYWHERE IN THE CASTLE
Each corridor room has a particular wall hanging that it wants to be surrounded by, 
and it scores 1 point for each wall hanging of that type surrounding it. For instance, 
the Echo Chamber scores 1 point for each torch surrounding it.
The wall hanging in the throne room counts as 1 point for corridor rooms that want 
to be surrounded by that type of wall hanging. 
A corridor room can score a maximum of 8 points.
IMPORTANT: Corridor rooms may be placed anywhere in the castle, including below 
the throne room level. Along with downstairs rooms, they are the only regular room 
type that can be placed below the throne room level.
When you place your 3rd corridor room, immediately place a grand foyer.
Grand foyers are a specialty room type, and can be placed anywhere in the castle 
(just like corridors). A grand foyer scores 1 point for each surrounding room. A 
grand foyer can score up to a maximum of 8 points. The grand foyer in the example 
below scores 5 points. 
The throne room counts as 1 point for the grand foyer, even if both halves of the 
throne room surround the grand foyer, as they do in the example below.
The more places 
a corridor leads, 
the better … but 
even better is 
when the decor 
matches the 
nearby rooms.
“We will hold a ball in the grand foyer, right in the 
center of the castle.”
B2CaRules_r13.indd 10

DOWNSTAIRS ROOMS
MUST BE PLACED BELOW THE THRONE ROOM LEVEL
Each downstairs room wants a particular room type above it, and it scores 1 
or 2 points for each of that room type anywhere in the same vertical column 
of the castle. In the example below, the laboratory scores 2 points.
There is no maximum to the number of points a downstairs room can score.
IMPORTANT: Downstairs rooms must be placed below the throne room level. You 
may have more than 1 level of downstairs and/or corridor rooms below your 
throne room level.
You may play a downstairs rooms that (at the moment 
you place it) does not have any tiles above it, as long as it 
shares an edge with at least one other tile already in the 
castle. See the example below. The same principle applies 
to corridor rooms and grand foyers that you place below 
the throne room level.
When you place your 3rd downstairs room, immediately choose any other 
room type bonus. You may choose a bonus that you already obtained earlier 
or a bonus you have not yet obtained.
If you choose a bonus you have not yet obtained (for instance, if you choose 
the food room bonus but you do not yet have three food rooms in the 
castle), you are still eligible to receive that bonus later. So, if you later place 
your 3rd food room into the castle, you may still take the food room bonus, 
like normal, even though you already received the food room bonus when 
you selected it with the downstairs room bonus.
If you choose to take a living room bonus, and have already received the 
living room bonus by placing 3 living room tiles, you may place a second 
royal attendant (same or different) in the throne room.
The foundations 
of the castle 
support the 
entirety of the 
building, and 
each downstairs 
room supports 
a particular 
part of the castle 
particularly well.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 11

THRONE ROOMS
Each throne room has 2 particular room types that it wants to be adjacent to, and 
2 specific adjacent spots where it wants those room types to be. The throne room 
scores 2 points for each of the two spots that has either of the room types it wants. 
In both of the examples below, the throne room scores 4 points.
A throne room can score a maximum of 4 points.
The character 
of a castle is 
illustrated most 
clearly by its 
throne room 
and the rooms 
nearby.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 12

After the game ends, we recommend that players shuffle 
all of the regular room tiles on the table and place them 
randomly face-down in the tile tray. That way the game 
is set up and ready to go the next time you play. Make 
sure to separate out the specialty rooms and put them 
away before shuffling the regular room tiles.
ENDING THE GAME
After round two is over, each castle is scored. Each 
player takes a score sheet and calculates the score for the 
castle to their left (see example). Once this is complete, 
compare the scores for the castle to your left and the 
castle to your right. Your personal final score is the 
lower of the scores of your 2 castles. The player with the 
highest final score wins.
FIRST TIE-BREAKER: Winners compare the scores of their higher-
scoring castles. The player with the higher score wins.
SECOND TIE-BREAKER: Winners compare the number of total 
specialty rooms among their two castles. The player 
with the highest total wins. Example: If James and Cindy 
are tied after the first tiebreaker, and James has a total of 7 
specialty rooms in his two castles and Cindy has a total of 6 
specialty rooms, then the tie is broken and James wins. 
If there is still a tie, players share the victory.
GAME SCORING EXAMPLE 
In the six-player game shown below, Ben’s final score is 
56, Matthew’s is 56, Margaux’s is 52, Anna Grace’s is 57, 
Peter’s is 52, and Emily’s is 62. Emily Wins!
CASTLE SCORING EXAMPLE
This castle scores 62 points.
FIREPLACE
HIBERNATION CHAMBER
SALON
READING ROOM
HALL OF PORTRAITS
HALL OF PUZZLED FLOORS
ANNA GRACE
MARGAUX
EMILY
MATTHEW
BEN
PETER
CASTLE NAME: CASTLE EXEMPLAR
CATEGORIES
INDIVIDUAL ROOM SCORES
TOTAL
1 TOWERS
5 FOUNTAINS
1 GRAND FOYERS
1 per ROYAL ATTENDANTS
 THRONE ROOM
TOTAL SCORE
B2CaRules_r13.indd 13

TWO-PLAYER VARIANT
Set up a 2-player game as if there are 3 players. That 
means there will be 3 throne rooms, each with a castle 
token below it. The third player is called “Ludwig”. The 
2 human players will be building a castle together, like 
normal, and each human player will also be building 1 
castle with Ludwig. 
ROUND ONE
During round one, each player draws 9 tiles. Ludwig 
also draws 9 tiles (place them in front of him, as if he 
were a human player). Do not look at Ludwig’s tiles.
During the Choose step of each turn this round, the 
player to the left of Ludwig will shuffle and randomly 
pick 2 of Ludwig’s tiles. They should look at those 
tiles and choose 1 of them to keep for the castle that 
he shares with Ludwig and 1 for the castle that the 
other human player shares with Ludwig. Place both of 
Ludwig’s tiles face up, each near the castle it was chosen 
for. Then the human players choose their own 2 tiles 
from their own respective tile stacks.
When both human players have finished choosing 
their tiles and all stacks (including Ludwig’s) have been 
passed to the left, conduct the Reveal and Place steps. 
Each human player chooses where to play their own tile 
and also where to place Ludwig’s tile into the castle they 
share with Ludwig.
For any bonuses achieved by 1 of Ludwig’s castles, the 
human player sharing that castle with Ludwig chooses 
and places the bonus. 
Once the Place step is finished, repeat the steps as normal. 
ROUND TWO
Round two follows the same steps as round one, except 
that the human player to Ludwig’s right will shuffle and 
randomly pick 2 of Ludwig’s tiles each turn, assigning 1 
to each of Ludwig’s castles.
At the end of round two, score all castles like normal. 
Note that it is possible for Ludwig to win the game, and 
both human players to lose!
CASTLE TOKENS
 	 	
	
 
MESPELBRUNN CASTLE
LICHTENSTEIN CASTLE
 HOHENSCHWANGAU CASTLE
BURG ELTZ
NEUSCHWANSTEIN CASTLE
 HOHENZOLLERN CASTLE
REICHSBURG COCHEM
“LUDWIG”
B2CaRules_r13.indd 14

regular and
specialty room
type
1 point for each different regular 
and specialty room type in your 
castle, not including the throne 
room
4 points per royal attendant in your 
throne room.
2 points per downstairs room in 
your castle
2 points per sleeping room in your 
room below
ground level
1 point per room below ground 
level, including specialty rooms
room on level 3 
and higher
1 point per room on level 3 and 
higher, including specialty rooms
2 points per living room in your 
2 points per food room in your 
total height
1 point per total height (count the 
total rows in your castle)
total width
1 point per total width (count the 
total columns in your castle)
2 points per outdoor room in your 
2 points per corridor room in your 
3 points per room that is fully 
surrounded. This can include the 
throne room. The throne room can 
help to occupy 2 spaces around a room 
for the purpose of this bonus card.
2 points per room whose spaces 
above, below, to the left, and to 
the right are all occupied. This can 
include the throne room.
2 points per utility room in your 
2 points per specialty room in your 
castle, including the throne room
≠
2 points per different regular room 
type in the six locations shown 
around your throne room
1 point per occupied space 
surrounding your throne room
5 =
4 points per regular room type of 
which you have 5 or more tiles
3 =
2 points per regular room type of 
which you have 3 or more tiles
B2CaRules_r13.indd 15
7/30/18 3:02 PM

The designers would like to thank Stonemaier Games, Bezier Games, Margaux O’Malley, 
Brian Blankstein, the 2nd Friday Playtest Group, Table Treasure Games, all our amazing playtesters, 
Chicagoland Games Dice Dojo, and the talented artists, editors, and graphic designers 
 who brought this game to life. 
WANT TO WATCH A HOW-TO-PLAY VIDEO?
Go to stonemaiergames.com/games/between-two-castles/videos
WANT THE RULES IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE?
Download rules and guides in dozens of languages at 
stonemaiergames.com/games/between-two-castles/rules
HAVE A QUESTION WHILE PLAYING OR A STORY TO SHARE?
Post it on the Between Two Castles of Mad King Ludwig Facebook group, 
mention it on BoardGameGeek, or tweet it to @stonemaiergames
NEED A REPLACEMENT PART?
Request it at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts
WANT TO STAY IN TOUCH?
Subscribe to monthly updates at stonemaiergames.com/e-newsletter
© 2018 Stonemaier LLC. Between Two Castles of Mad King Ludwig is a trademark of Stonemaier LLC. 
The Castles of Mad King Ludwig is a trademark of Bezier Games, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
B2CaRules_r13.indd 16
7/30/18 3:02 PM