Egypt lies before you. It consists of 19 terrain hexes surrounded by dunes and sea. 
Your task is to settle Egypt. 
	There are five different terrain types and one desert in Egypt. Each 
terrain type produces a different type of resource.
	You begin the game with 2 settlements and 2 oxcarts. 
Each settlement is worth 1 victory point. You therefore 
start the game with 2 victory points. The first player to 
reach 10 victory points wins the game. 
	To obtain more victory points, you must build new 
oxcarts and settlements and upgrade your settlements 
to temple cities. A temple city is worth 2 victory points. 
To build or upgrade, you need resources.
	How do you get resources? It's simple. Each turn, 2 dice are rolled 
to determine which terrain hexes produce resources. Each terrain hex is 
marked with a round number token. If, for example, a "10" is rolled, all terrain 
hexes with a "10" number token produce resources—in the illustration on the right, 
those terrain hexes are a quarry (stone) and an alluvial land (brick).
 You only collect resources if you own a settlement or temple city bordering these 
terrain hexes. In the illustration, a purple settlement "A" borders the quarry and a 
turquoise settlement "B" borders the alluvial land. If a "10" is rolled, the purple 
player receives stone and the turquoise player receives brick.
 Since settlements usually border on 2-3 terrain types, 
they can "harvest" up to 3 different resources based on 
the dice roll. In our example, settlement "C" borders 
3 terrain hexes: quarry, pasture, and papyrus grove. 
A settlement at "D" would only harvest the production 
from 2 terrain hexes (quarry and alluvial land).
 Since you can't have settlements adjacent to all 
terrain hexes and number tokens at the beginning of 
the game, you may receive certain resources only at rare 
intervals—or never. This is tough, because building 
requires specific resource combinations.
 For this reason, you can trade with your opponents. 
Make them an offer, or let them make you an offer! 
A successful trade might yield a big build. 
 You can only build a new settlement on an 
unoccupied intersection—provided that one of your 
own oxcarts leads to that intersection and the nearest 
settlement is at least 2 intersections away.
 Carefully consider where you build settlements. The 
numbers on the round tokens are depicted in varying sizes. 
They also have dots (pips) below the numbers. The taller 
the depicted number, and the more pips it has, the more likely 
that number is to be rolled. The red numbers 6 and 8 are the tallest 
numbers with the most pips; they are likely to be rolled most frequently. 
Bottom line: The more frequently a number is rolled, the more often the hexes 
with those numbers produce resources. You should consider settling on hexes that 
have good potential for production. However, these same hexes are often the primary target 
for the robber. 
Game OVERVIEW
Contains the game rules for:
1)	 Base Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 2
	
Featuring the unchanged original rules of Catan.
2)	 "Help from the Gods" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . page 5
	
You need these cards for "The Great Pyramid" scenario. 
	
You can also use them into the base game if you wish.
3)	 "The Great Pyramid" Scenario . . . . . . . . . . . . page 6 
	
A challenging new way to play Catan.
If you're already familiar with "The Settlers of Catan," you only have 
to acquaint yourself with the changed terms and illustrations, because 
you already know all game rules. In this case, you can choose whether 
to play the base game first or immediately familiarize yourself with 
the "Help from the Gods" cards. You need these cards for "The Great 
Pyramid" but can also incorporate them into the base game. The rules 
for "The Great Pyramid" are described last.
1) Base Game
Game Overview and Starting Set-up for Beginners 
To make it as easy as possible for you to get started with the game, we 
use the award-winning "Catan" rules system, which consists of 3 parts. 
If you do not know "Catan," please read this introductory Game 
Overview 
 first. Next, read the Game Rules 
 and start to play. 
Initially, you should disregard the additional rules starting on page 5 
and only play the base game. If you have questions during the game, 
please consult the Catan Almanac 
 (included as a separate booklet).
B
A
C
D
Robber
Settlement
Oxcart
Path
Dark Numbers at 
the Frame Joints
Intersection
Harbor
Oasis
Papyrus grove 
produces papyrus
Fields 
produce grain
Alluvial land 
produces brick
Pasture 
produce cattle
Quarry 
produces stone
Desert 
produces nothing
Africa is spring

	
These rules contain all the important information that you need to play! If you need more information during 
the game, you can look up keywords in the Almanac. All keywords are marked with an "☥" symbol.
Starting Set-up for Beginners
For your first games, we suggest that you lay out the game board as shown in the illustration on page 1. First, assemble the frame using the 6 
frame pieces. The dark numbers printed on the joints must be face up. Important: The printing on the back of the frame is only intended 
for "The Great Pyramid" (white numbers on the joints). Make sure that the harbors and oases on the frame are in the right positions.
Now place the terrain hexes inside the frame. Once all of the hexes are in place within the frame, place the number tokens onto the hexes.
Note: 7 of the terrain hexes have the Nile River printed on the back. This side of these hexes are only used for "The Great Pyramid" scenario. 
Similarly, the desert hex has a picture of a Pyramid building site on the back that is only used in "The Great Pyramid" scenario, so make sure 
that the desert side is face up for the beginner setup.
Starting Set-up for Experienced Players
Once you have played the game a couple of times, you may find it more fun and challenging to use a random game board set-up. You can find the 
guidelines in the Almanac under Set-up, Variable☥.
PREPARATION
Starting Set-up for Beginners 
• Each player receives one "Ancient Egypt" building costs 
card and all game pieces of one color: 5 settlements☥, 4 
temple cities☥, and 15 oxcarts☥. Place 2 oxcarts and 2 
settlements on the game board (see illustration on page 
1). Place your remaining settlements, temple cities, and 
oxcarts in front of yourself. If you are playing a 3-player 
game, do not use the red starting positions shown on page 
1. The 3 papyrus boats of each color are only used to play 
"The Great Pyramid." Set them aside otherwise.
• Place the special cards "Longest Trade Route"☥ and 
"Largest Mercenary Army" beside the game board, along 
with the 2 dice.
• Sort the resource 
cards into 5 stacks 
and put them 
face up into the 
compartments of the card holder; they are the supply. Place 
the card holder beside the game board.
• Shuffle the development cards☥ and place them face down 
next to the card holder.
Turn Overview
The oldest player goes first. On your turn, you can do the 
following in the order listed:
1.	You must roll the dice and resolve resource production 
(the result of your roll applies to all players). 
2.	You may trade☥ resources—also with your opponents.
3.	You may build☥: oxcarts☥, settlements☥ or temple cities☥, 
and/or you may buy development cards☥.
In addition, you may play 1 development card☥ at any time 
during your turn (also before rolling the dice). 
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player to your left, who 
then continues the game with step 1.
THE TURN IN DETAIL
1.	Resource Production
• You begin your turn by rolling both dice. The sum of 
the dice determines which terrain hexes produce resources. 
After rolling, the hexes immediately produce as follows:
• Each player who has a settlement adjacent to a terrain hex 
marked with the number rolled receives 1 resource card of 
the hex's type. If you have 2 or 3 settlements adjacent to 
that hex, you receive 1 resource card for each settlement. 
You receive 2 resource cards for each temple city you own 
adjacent to that hex. 
Example: If a "6" is rolled, 
Purple receives 2 brick for his 
2 settlements. Turquoise receives 
1 brick. If a "4" is rolled, 
turquoise receives 1 papyrus. 
If Turquoise's settlement were 
a temple city, he would receive 
2 papyrus instead.
Game Rules
• Set the 10 god cards and the 4 overview cards (see page 5)
aside for now. You don't need them to play the base game.
• You receive your first resource production: take 1 resource 
card for each terrain hex around your starting settlement 
marked with a white star (see page 1). 
Example: Purple receives 1 grain card and 2 cattle cards for her 
settlement marked with a star. 
• Keep your resource cards hidden in your hand.
Important: You won't need die-cut sheet #6 right now. It contains the components to play "The Great Pyramid" scenario. Leave it in the box for now. 
Note: When you punch tiles out of the diecut sheets, always push the tiles through from the front (cut) side. Pushing from the back may cause the tiles to rip.

2. Trade
Afterwards you may trade☥ to obtain needed resource cards. 
There are two types of trade:
a) Domestic Trade (Trade with Opponents)☥
	 You can trade resource cards with any of the other players. 
You can announce which resources you need and what 
you are willing to trade for them. You can also hear your 
opponents' offers and make counteroffers. 
	 Important: Players may only trade with the player 
whose turn it is. The other players may not trade among 
themselves.
b) Foreign Trade (Trade with the "Supply")☥
	 You can also trade without the other players!
• During your turn, you can always trade at 4:1 by returning 
4 resource cards of the same type to the supply and taking 
any 1 resource card of your choice in exchange.
• If you have a settlement at a harbor☥ or an oasis☥, you can 
trade with the supply more favorably. A 3:1 harbor or a 3:1 
oasis allows you to trade 3 resources of the same type for 
any 1 resource card of your choice, and at a special harbor 
or a special oasis you can trade 2 resource cards of the 
indicated type for any 1 resource of your choice.
3. BUILD☥
Now you can build. Through building, you can increase your 
resource production and your number of victory points☥! 
To build, you must pay specific combinations of resource 
cards (see the building costs card). Then you take the 
corresponding number of oxcarts, settlements or temple cities 
from your supply and place them on the game board. Return 
the paid resource cards to their supply stacks.
a)	 Oxcart☥ requires: 1 brick and 1 cattle 
• A new oxcart must always connect to 1 of your existing 
oxcarts, settlements, or temple cities.
• Oxcarts are built on paths, and form a trade route☥.
• Only 1 oxcart can be built on any given path☥.
Example: Gray may build an oxcart on the paths marked in 
green, but not on the path marked in yellow, because Purple's 
settlement impedes it. 
• The first player to build a continuous trade route 
(not counting forks) of at least 5 oxcarts that is not 
interrupted by foreign settlements or temple 
cities receives the special card "Longest 
Trade Route"☥, worth 2 victory points. If 
another player succeeds in building a longer 
trade route than the one created by the 
current owner of the "Longest Trade Route" 
card, he immediately takes the special card 
(and its 2 victory points). 
Example: Purple has a continuous trade route of 6 oxcarts (not 
counting the fork); therefore, she has the "Longest Trade Route." 
Gray's trade route of 7 oxcarts is interrupted by one of Purple's 
settlements. So, Gray's longest is 5 oxcarts. Red's is 4.
b) Settlement☥ requires: 
	
1 brick, 1 cattle, 1 grain, and 1 papyrus 
• You must build a settlement on an intersection that 
connects to at least one of your oxcarts. When building a 
settlement, you must observe the distance rule (see page 4).
• Regardless of whose turn it is (i.e., during any production 
phase), when a terrain hex produces resources, you receive 
1 resource card for each settlement you have adjacent to 
that terrain hex.
Settlement rules, with an example, continue on page 4.
Foreign trade 4:1 without harbor/oasis
Foreign trade 3:1 with 3:1 harbor/oasis
Foreign trade 2:1 with special 
"papyrus" oasis
Longest 
Trade Route
Fork

• Distance rule: You may only build a settlement on an 
intersection if all 3 (or, next to the frame, 2) of the adjacent 
intersections are vacant (i.e., none are occupied by any 
settlements or temple cities—even your own).
• Each settlement is worth 1 victory point.
c) Temple City☥ requires: 3 stone and 2 grain 
You build a temple city by upgrading one of your settlements. 
• When you upgrade a settlement to a temple city, return the 
settlement piece to your supply and replace it with a temple 
city piece.
• For temple cities you receive twice as many resources from 
adjacent terrain hexes: 2 resource cards from each adjacent 
terrain hex whose number is rolled. 
• Each temple city is worth 2 victory points.
d) Development Card☥ requires: 
	
1 stone, 1 grain, and 1 papyrus
• When you buy a development 
card, draw the top card from 
the stack. 
• There are 3 different types of 
development cards, each of which has a different effect:
	 Mercenary☥	
Progress☥	
Victory Point☥
• Keep your development cards secret until you use them.
4. Special Cases
a) Rolling a "7"☥ and Activating the Robber
• If you roll a "7," no one receives any resources. 
• All players who have more than 7 resource cards must 
select half of their resource cards and return them to the 
supply. Players who have an odd number of cards round 
down (for example, if you have 9 cards, you must discard 
4 of them). 
• Then you must move the robber☥:
1.	You must move the robber☥ to another hex (this can also 
be the desert hex).
2.	Then you draw 1 resource card from one opponent who 
has a settlement or temple city adjacent to the terrain hex 
you have placed the robber on. The player who is robbed 
holds his resource card hand face down. 
3.	Afterwards, you begin your turn's trade phase. 
Important: If the number of the hex containing the robber is 
rolled, the owners of adjacent settlements and temple cities do 
not receive resources from that hex.
b) Playing Development Cards☥
During your turn, you may play 1 development card—before or 
after rolling and resolving production. That card, however, may 
not be a card you bought during the same turn! There are three 
types of development cards.
1.	Mercenary Cards☥:
• If you play a mercenary card, you must 
immediately move the robber. 
(See steps 1 and 2 above).
• Once played, mercenary cards remain face up 
in front of yourself. 
• The first player to have 3 mercenary cards 
face up in front of himself receives the 
special card "Largest Mercenary Army," 
which is worth 2 victory points to its holder.
• If another player has more mercenary 
cards face up in front of himself than the 
current holder of the Largest Mercenary Army card, he 
immediately receives the special card and the 2 victory 
points move from the old holder to the new holder. 
2.	Progress Cards☥:
If you play a progress card, follow its 
instructions. Then remove the card from 
the game (put it in the box, set it aside, etc.). 
3.	Victory Point Cards☥:
You must keep victory point 
cards secret. You may only 
reveal them if you or another 
player reach a total of 
10 victory points. 
End of the Game☥
If you have 10 or more victory points during your turn, the 
game ends and you are the winner.
Example: Gray may build a settlement on the intersection marked 
in green—not, however, on the intersections marked in yellow, 
because he has to observe the distance rule.
Largest 
Mercenary Army

PREPARATION
Give each player a God Power Summary card. This card has a brief 
description of each god card's power. 
God Power Summary
Each god card has a front side (marked "A" and colored green) 
and a back side (marked "B" and colored blue). Four of the god 
cards have a number in addition to the letter on their "A" side. 
Horus is "A1", Ptha is "A2", Atum is "A3", and Osiris is "A4". 
Make a stack of these 4 cards in front of yourself, "A" side up. 
Make sure that the top card is A1, and the remaining cards 
follow in numerical order ("A2", "A3", and "A4"). Set the cards 
without numbers "A" side up beside the game board to form 
a display.
After you build your second settlement during the set-up 
phase, take the god card from the top of the stack and place it 
in front of yourself, "A" side up. Therefore, if you are the first 
player to place your second settlement, you take the A1 card, 
the next player takes the A2 card, and so on.
After the set-up phase is finished, place any remaining god 
cards (in a 3-player game this includes the A4 card) beside the 
rest of the god cards on display, "A" side up.
Using God Cards
Using a god card is a two-step process. The first step is a 
choice of whether or not you will use the god card. Once you 
choose to play your god card, you must resolve all of the 
effects as written on the card itself. The effects on each god 
card offer you a special advantage described on the card.
Important: Unlike the other god cards, Isis does not give you 
a choice of whener or not to play the card. If you have this 
card and a someone rolls a "7", you must play Isis. 
Help From The Gods
Use these cards when you play “The Great Pyramid” scenario. The set consists of 10 god cards plus 4 overview cards 
containing a brief description of the gods' functions. You can easily incorporate the god cards into the base game too.
Rules for Playing Your God Card:
There are four main rules to follow that dictate if, when, and 
how you can play your god card.
• You may only play a god card on your own turn, unless the 
card says otherwise. For example: Isis & Atum.
• You cannot play a god card on the same turn you receive it.
• You may only play a god card one time on the turn you 
use it, unless the card says otherwise. For example: Amun's 
2:1 power can be used multiple times after you declare which 
resource you are trading.
• If you can’t / don’t comply with all of a god card's 
requirements, you cannot play it. For example: You can’t use 
Maat if you have the most victory points. You can’t use Ptha, 
and spend 1 cattle and 1 brick to build an oxcart, because you 
must actually substitute 1 resource to use his power. You can’t 
use Amun’s power of 2:1 trades if you don’t actually give 2 
cards to the supply in exchange for 1 card.
Once You Play Your God Card:
Once you have made the choice to play your god card, you 
must resolve all of the effects as written on the card itself.
After You Play Your God Card:
After you resolve the effects of the god card you played, read 
the bottom "After Use:" line. It explains your options.
• If the card is on it's "A" 
side, you can choose either 
option 1 or option 2 below. 
• If the card is on its "B" 
side, you must select 
option 2 below.
1.	Turn the card over so that its "B" side is face up and keep 
it in front of yourself. You can use the god card's advantage 
a second time on a subsequent turn.
2.	Return the god card to the display (turn it "A" side up) 
and choose one of the other available god cards from the 
display (no, you cannot take back the one you just placed on 
the display). Place your new god card "A" side up in front 
of yourself.

The Great Pyramid
If you have already played "The Great Pyramid," you may 
vary the hex layout as follows: 
First place the hex depicting the Nile Delta (the hex where 
the Nile forks) as shown in the illustration on the right. 
Shuffle the remaining Nile hexes and randomly set up the 
course of the Nile by placing the hexes in the areas 
surrounded by red borders. Now the Nile runs through hexes 
that are arranged in random order.
Shuffle all other hexes and randomly place them on the 
spaces still available. Then place the number tokens in the 
usual fashion (see Set-up, Variable☥).
Important: All of the rules of the base game apply to this 
scenario, unless otherwise specified in the rules that follow.
Preparation
When you play "The Great Pyramid" for the first time, place the terrain hexes and number tokens inside the frame as shown below. 
White Numbers 
at the 
Frame Joints
Nile Delta

You and each other player, should take 
a building costs card and place it in 
front of yourselves, "Great Pyramid" 
side up.
Set-Up phase 
The set-up phase has 2 rounds. Each player builds 1 settlement 
and 1 oxcart per round, as usual.
Round One
Each player rolls 2 dice. If you roll highest, you are the 
starting player and begin. Place 1 of your settlements on an 
unoccupied intersection that must border on a Nile hex. 
Place 1 of your oxcarts adjacent to this settlement. The 
oxcart may point in any direction. 
Exception: You can never place an oxcart on a path across the 
Nile. You must use a papyrus boat☥ to cross the Nile, which 
you cannot place during setup.
The other players then follow clockwise. Everyone places 1 
settlement and 1 adjoining oxcart.
Round Two
Once all players have built their first settlements, the player 
who went last in the first round begins round two. If this is 
you, build your second settlement on any unoccupied 
intersection (respecting the distance rule) and place an oxcart 
adjacent to it. After you build, the other players follow 
counterclockwise. That way, the starting player places his 
second settlement last. 
Remember: During the set-up phase, you may only use 
oxcarts (not papyrus boats) to build your trade routes. 
You receive your starting resources immediately after 
building your second settlement; for each terrain hex adjacent 
to your second settlement, you take a corresponding resource 
card from the supply.
Gameplay at a glance
Additional Building Options
a) Papyrus Boat☥ requires: 2 papyrus + 1 cattle
You are not allowed to build oxcarts across the Nile. You 
cross the Nile with papyrus boats instead. Conversely, you 
may not place a papyrus boat on a normal (land-based) path. 
Like oxcarts, you may place papyrus boats either adjacent to 
intersections that border on your own trade route (oxcart / 
papyrus boat) or adjacent to intersections on which you have 
built one of your own settlements or temple cities. If you have 
built 1 papyrus boat, you can later build an oxcart on an 
adjacent path (or a second papyrus boat if 
the adjacent path also crosses the Nile 
like the 3 paths that border the Nile 
Delta hex—shown here). 
Papyrus boats also count toward the 
"Longest Trade Route." 
Now detach the components 
from this die-cut sheet. 
In addition to the game pieces that you already have, each 
player takes 3 papyrus boats in their own color. 
Also take 12 pyramid 
blocks in your color.
The remaining gold-colored pyramid 
blocks belong to “the pharaoh.” They 
have numbers on their backs. Shuffle 
these pyramid blocks and place them 
(number side down) in a stack beside 
the game board. 
Each player receives 1 pharaoh card. Place 
your card in front of yourself, "Pharaoh's 
Curse" side up. "Pharaoh's Curse" reduces 
your victory point score by 1, which is why 
you start with only 1 victory point. 
Place the pyramid building site beside the 
game board.
Put the "Vizier's Favor" card 
beside the pyramid building site.

b) Building the Pyramid
• Inserting a pyramid block into the pyramid 
Building costs: 1 stone + 1 cattle
Important: You may not build pyramid blocks until you have 
built at least 1 papyrus boat across the Nile. 
After paying the building costs, place 1 of your pyramid 
blocks on a space of the pyramid building site. 
The pyramid consists of 4 levels. First, 16 pyramid blocks are 
placed on the 16 spaces of the bottom level, then 9 pyramid 
blocks on the second level, 4 blocks on the the third level, 
and the last pyramid block is placed on the upper level. 
Effects of Building the Pyramid 
Pharaoh's Curse and Pharaoh's Blessing:
As long as you have built more pyramid blocks 
than another player, turn your pharaoh card so 
that its "Pharaoh's Blessing" side is face up. 
"Pharaoh's Blessing" is worth 1 victory point. 
Therefore, "Pharaoh's Curse" affects only the 
player, or players, who have built the fewest 
building blocks. If you all have built the same 
number of pyramid blocks, "Pharaoh's Curse" 
affects everyone.
Vizier's Favor
If you are the first player to place one of your 
pyramid blocks, take the "Vizier's Favor" card 
from beside the pyramid building site. You keep 
the card until another player builds a pyramid 
block. Therefore, the Vizier’s Favor card always 
belongs to the player who most recently built a 
pyramid block. As the card's owner, you have the 
following advantages: 
• Once during your turn, you may trade any 1 of your 
resource cards for any 1 different resource card from the 
supply (1:1 trade). You may do so on the same turn you 
received the card. 
• When a "7" is rolled, you are only required to discard half 
of your resource cards if you have more than 9 cards. 
Rolling a "7" and 
Activating the Robber
If you roll a "7," take 1 of the gold-colored pyramid blocks 
and reveal the number on its back. You will see a number 
between 6 and 9. This number indicates the maximum 
number of resource cards each player may own without 
having to discard half of their resource cards. For example, if 
the number is "8," you only lose half of your resource cards if 
you have more than 8 resource cards.
Remember: If you have the “Vizier’s Favor” card, you 
are only affected if you have more than 9 resource cards 
in your hand.
Pharaoh Builds the Pyramid: 
Place the gold-colored pyramid block on an empty space on 
the pyramid building site. 
After completing all of the steps above, you move the robber 
and draw a resource card from an opponent as usual.
End of the Game 
The game ends when one of the following conditions is met: 
• A player reaches 11 victory points on his turn. This player 
wins the game.
OR
If you have the most victory points, you win if either of the 
following occur:
• All 12 of the pharaoh's gold-colored pyramid blocks have 
been used.
• The pyramid is finished.
If there is a tie in either of these cases, the tying player who 
contributed the most pyramid blocks wins. If there is a tie in 
this case, if one of these tied players has the Vizier's Favor 
card, that player wins. If no tied player has the Vizier's Favor 
Card, the tied players share the win.
CREDITS 
Author: Klaus Teuber
Editorial Team (German Ed.): Wolfgang Lüdtke, Reiner 
Müller, Klaus Teuber, Benjamin Teuber, Peter Neugebauer
Illustration & Figure Design: Michael Menzel
Graphic Design: Michaela Kienle/Fine Tuning
Thanks (German Ed.): The author and publisher thank all 
of the playtesters and copy editors.
Production & Layout (English Ed.): Ron Magin
Translation (English Ed.): Gavin Allister
Development (English Ed.): Coleman Charlton, Morgan 
Dontanville, Pete Fenlon and Ron Magin
Special Thanks: See additional credits in the almanac
Copyright © 2014 Catan GmbH. Catan, Catan: Egypt, Catan 
Collectors Edition, the Catan Map image and all associated marks are 
trademark properties of Catan GmbH. All rights reserved. Produced 
by Mayfair Games, Inc. under an exclusive worldwide English-
language license from Catan GmbH. See www.catan.com.