Studio™
3120
Catan Dice Game Rules
By Klaus Teuber
The Two Games
The Catan Dice Game™ contains 
2 distinct games, each with its own scoring 
sheet and its own rules. For your first game, 
we suggest that you start with the “Island 
One” game.
Game Components
•	 6 resource dice
•	 1 pad with 60 sheets (each sheet 
shows Island One on one side & 
Island Two on the other)
•	 1 rules booklet
Should you find that any of your 
components are missing or damaged, 
please use our web portal:
https://asmodee.us/en/support/
For all other inquiries, contact us at: 
info@catanstudio.com
or write to us at:
Catan Studio, Inc., 804 Elliot Ave., Charlottesville VA 22902, USA
Island One Rules
Preparation
Give each player 1 sheet with the game map. Use the green “Island One” side. 
You need a pencil or pen for each player. Take the 6 dice and give them to the 
youngest player—he/she is the “starting player.”
The Basics
The game map depicts the Island of Catan, with special symbols for 
settlements, cities, roads, and knights. During the course of the game, you and 
your opponents each try to build as many roads, settlements, cities, and knights 
as possible on the island depicted on your game map.
Building means: You mark the respective symbol either with a circle, a cross 
(“X”), or by filling in the symbol.
Building costs resources: 6 dice are used to roll for resources. Each die 
has 6 sides, and each side depicts a different resource: wool, grain, brick, ore, 
lumber, or gold. For example, building a road costs 1 lumber and 1 brick, so 
you can build a road only after having rolled these two resources.
Brick
Lumber
Wool
Grain
Ore
Gold
Once you build and mark the corresponding symbol(s), credit yourself 
with the points indicated by the number on that/those symbol(s). If you have 
accumulated the most points at the end of the game, you win!
Game Play
The starting player begins the game. During your turn, you roll the dice up 
to 3 times. Afterwards, you use the resources rolled to build, writing down the 
points you have obtained. Then the next player in clockwise direction takes a 
turn.
1. Rolling the dice
During your turn, you may roll the dice up to 3 times. After the first roll, 
set any number of dice aside and roll the remaining dice once again. After the 
second roll, you may set aside more dice, but you may also pick up dice that 
were set aside previously and use them for your last roll. You may also choose to 
stop rolling with the result obtained after the first or second dice roll.
After the third dice roll, your result can only be changed by playing a 
Resource Joker (see page 5) or via Gold Trading (see page 5).
2. Building
The Building Costs Overview indicates 
which resources are required to build 
a road, knight, settlement, or city. For 
example, if you build a knight, set aside 
1 die with ore, 1 with wool, and 1 with 
grain—then mark a knight symbol on 
your game map. The procedure is the 
same as for building a road, settlement, 
or city (with different resources 
of course).
You may build multiple times during your turn if you have 
rolled enough of the appropriate resources. After building, 
enter the points for the just marked symbol(s) in the next 
empty box of your Scoring Track (make the first entry in the 
upper left box of your Scoring Track).
Building Costs Overview
Scoring Track
Starting Road
City
Road
Settlement
Road
Knight
Brick-Joker

If you build multiple times during your turn, enter the sum of the points for 
the marked symbols.
Important: Should you not build anything 
during your turn, you must enter an “X,” 
which counts as minus 2 points.
Example: You built a settlement (circled in 
white) on your first turn and entered 3 points 
for it. On your second turn, you built 2 roads 
(circled in blue) and entered 2 points for 
them. You marked each of the road symbols 
and the settlement symbol with a circle. On 
your third turn, you roll the resources depicted. You set lumber and brick 
aside and mark the road symbol with a red circle. Then you set aside 1 wool, 
1 ore, and 1 grain, marking the knight symbol (circled in red). The knight 
and the road are each worth 1 point—you enter 2 points in the third box of 
your Scoring Track.
Building Rules: What Can Be Built and Where?
Road: A road costs 1 brick + 1 lumber and is always worth 1 point. The first 
road (purple starting road) is already built and doesn’t cost any resources. 
You must build roads in sequence, meaning that you must build a new road 
next to a road that you already built. A city or settlement next to a road does 
not obstruct subsequent road building—this also applies if the settlement or 
city hasn’t yet been built.
Settlement: A settlement costs 1 lumber, 1 brick, 1 grain, and 1 wool. 
You can only build a settlement adjacent to a road that you have already built. 
Furthermore, you must build settlements in ascending order according to 
their point value: first your 3 point settlement, then your 4 point settlement, 
and so on.
City: A city costs 3 ore and 2 grain. The procedure is the same as for 
building a settlement. You can only build a city adjacent to a road you already 
built. You must also build cities in ascending order according to their point 
value; e.g., you must build your 7 point city before you can build your 12 
point city.
Knight: A knight costs 1 grain, 1 wool, and 1 ore. You must also build your 
knights in ascending order according to their point value. Each knight that 
you build has a resource depicted below it—you may use each such resource 
once per game.	
	
 (see “Resource Joker” next paragraph).
Resource Joker
For each knight you build, you may use (once during the game) the resource 
depicted below this knight (i.e., the Resource Joker) in place of another 
resource of your choice. To use a Resource Joker:
•	 After you roll the dice, turn one of the dice so that the resource 
corresponding to the Resource Joker is face up.
•	 Then mark the symbol of the Resource Joker on your game map, 
indicating that it has been used. This does not affect your previously 
accrued points earned for building the knight.
Example: If you need ore and have already built a knight on the ore hex, 
you may cross out that knight, change any die to an ore, and use it to build.
After you have built your last knight (the one marked with a “6”), you may use 
any resource of your choice as the Resource Joker (note the “?” symbol). Since 
there are 6 knights on your game map, you can use up to 6 Resource Jokers 
during a game—provided that you build all of your knights.
You may use 2 or more Resource Jokers during the same turn. You may build 
a knight and use the corresponding Resource Joker on the same turn.
Gold Trade
If you have 2 gold results after you finish rolling the dice, you may use 
those 2 gold to substitute (i.e., trade) for another resource of your choice. 
Thus you can trade 2 gold for 1 ore, 1 brick, or any other resource. To use 
2 gold in a trade:
•	 After you roll the dice, turn 1 die with a gold result so that a resource of 
your choice is face up.
•	 Then place the other die with a gold result to the side—it is no longer 
available this turn.
Gold itself cannot be used to build anything; it can only be traded for other 
resources. Therefore, if you roll only 1 gold, you cannot use it. If you roll enough 
gold resources (i.e., 4 or 6), you may trade gold 2 or even 3 times during the 
same turn.
End of the Game
The game ends after each player has finished 15 turns. At this point, you have 
filled in all 15 boxes of your Scoring Track. Add up your points, subtracting 
2 points for each “X” in your Scoring Track. The player with the highest score 
wins the game.
ISLAND TWO RULES
Most of the Island One rules apply to the 
Island Two game. You should read those 
rules and play that game first. This rules 
section only presents the rules that differ 
from the Island One game.
Preparation
Give each player 1 sheet with the game 
map. Use the red “Island Two” side.
Starting the Game
The starting player rolls only 3 dice.
Each following player adds 1 more die 
when rolling, up to the point where one 
player uses all 6 dice. From that point on, 
each player always rolls all 6 dice.
Goal of the Game
As in the Island One game, you roll the 
6 dice up to 3 times. Then you use the resources you have rolled to build roads, 
knights, settlements, and cities.
However, the goal of the Island Two game is to be the first player to reach 
10 victory points and thus win the game.
Building
The Island One building rules apply except:
•	 If you have built roads next to several settlement sites, you may build on 
those settlement sites in any order. The same rule applies to cities.
•	 Knights can also be built in any order.
Resource Jokers
You can use your Resource Jokers as outlined in the Island One game. That is, 
after you roll the dice, turn one of the dice so that the resource corresponding to 
the Resource Joker is face up. During your turn, you may use as many Resource 
Jokers as you like, but don’t forget to mark them as used.
If you have built both knights above a Resource Joker in a desert, you can use 
it to obtain a resource of your choice.
Basic Victory Points
Each settlement is worth 1 victory point (VP), and each city is worth 2 VPs. 
As individual units, the built roads and knights are not worth victory points.
When you build a settlement, mark the settlement symbol on your game map, 
and mark 1 of the 10 victory point boxes in the upper right of your sheet. When 
you build a city, mark the city symbol on your game map, and mark 2 of the 10 
boxes in the upper right of your sheet.
Special Victory Points
You receive special victory points for Longest Road and/or for Largest Army.
Longest Road—If you are the first player to build a road on the building site 
shaded gray, you have the longest continuous sequence of roads: it is made 
up of 5 roads. Put a small check mark (3) in the “Longest Road” section on 
your sheet. You have the Longest Road and receive 2 special victory points. 
If another player builds a longer road (not counting branches), you lose 
Longest Road and the other player gets Longest Road. You cross through your 
check mark (47 ), and you lose the 2 special victory points. The other player 
places a check mark and receives the 2 special victory points.
Largest Army —If you are the first player to build 3 knights, put a small check 
mark (3) in the “Largest Army” section on your sheet. You have the Largest 
Army and receive 2 special victory points. Using knights as Resource Jokers 
does not reduce the size of your army. 
	
As soon as another player has more knights than you, that player takes 
Largest Army from you. You cross through your check mark (47 ), and you 
lose Longest Army and the 2 special victory points. The other player places a 
check mark and receives the 2 special victory points.
Example: You built 3 settlements for 1 victory point 
(VP) each, and 1 city for 2 VPs. So you marked 5 VP 
boxes on your sheet. Earlier you had Longest Road, 
but you lost it to another player. So you crossed out 
that check mark—you do not have 2 VPs for Longest 
Road. In addition, you have the most knights (4), 
giving you Largest Army and the corresponding 2 VPs.
End of the Game
The game ends as soon as a player reaches 10 victory points and 
wins the game.
3 3
3 3
Copyright © 2007, 2010, 2016, 2017 Catan GmbH and Catan Studio, Inc. Catan Dice Game, Catan, The Settlers of Catan, and the “Catan Sun” mark are trademark properties of Catan GmbH (catan.com). All rights reserved.