Story
Have you ever wondered if people on Catan only grow wheat? No, of course they don’t. Among other crops, you’ll find beans, maize (aka 
corn), quinoa, and rice in the fields of Catan. This crop diversity lends strength to the settlers’ nutrition and Catan’s ecosystem.
At harvest time, the inhabitants of Catan plant a diverse variety of seeds, “rotating” their harvests in order to replenish the soil, vary their 
produce, and balance their nutrition. They store seeds to ensure a future of crop diversity and healthy agriculture. It’s a careful but vital 
balance. Otherwise, some crops might disappear altogether from Catan.
Theme
What if crop loss threatened Catan? Can you settle Catan without threatening the food supply? 
We live in an ever more crowded world. Food shortages and famine stress populations in poor and marginal environments. Regional plant 
losses threaten crop diversity.
Catan: Crop Trust™ is an engaging and fun game experience for the family that may lead to thoughtful understanding about the 
importance of crop diversity to our food supply. Here, we introduce simple, semi-cooperative rules that enliven and educate the Catan® 
experience. Players must weigh their need to harvest crops against a collective goal to store and preserve seeds in the seed vault.
The Crop Trust
We developed this scenario in collaboration with the Crop Trust (officially known as the Global Crop Diversity Trust). The Crop Trust is an 
independent international organization whose goal is to preserve crop diversity in order to protect global food security. Among other 
things, the organization supports the work of the Svalbard Global Seed Vault to store seeds of some of the world’s most important crops in 
Svalbard, Norway. 
If you want to know more about the seed vault and Crop Trust’s work, we recommend that you read the enclosed almanac. 
For further information, please visit www.croptrust.org. All proceeds of this scenario will be donated to the Crop Trust to support crop 
conservation work. 
Have fun playing the Catan: Crop Trust scenario!
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Game Board Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Scenario Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Game Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Scenario Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Catan: Crop Trust Almanac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Rules

Extra Fields Hex
GAME BOARD PREPARATION
For your first Catan: Crop Trust™ game, we recommend 
the set-up shown below. Please note that the desert is not 
used in this scenario. Instead, you use the additional fields 
hex included in this scenario (watermarked with a seed 
vial icon). 
Add your scenario components (shown below) to those 
found in your Catan® game. Then, set up as follows.
Game Overview
Starting set-up 
for your first game
Robber
Crop Token

Game Components & Preparation
SCENARIO COMPONENTS
GAME PREPARATION
GAME COMPONENTS
Player Pieces
Each player chooses a set of game pieces in one of the available 
colors. If this is your first game, place your starting settlements and 
roads on the board as shown in the Starting Set-up. After you are 
comfortable with the new rules, try the variable setup (see page 7).
In a 3-player game, set aside the pieces of 
1 color. Do not place the starting settlements 
and roads of this color on the board.
Each player receives a Crop Storage Record 
player aid and places it in front of him/her.
The Seed Vault & Crop Tokens
Place the starting crop tokens on the 
fields hexes as shown in the “Starting 
set-up for your first game.” 
Place the seed vault display beside the 
game board. Each player places 4 crop 
tokens (seed vial side up) of one plant 
type on one of the 2 seed vault spaces 
marked in their player color. Red chooses 
rice, White chooses beans, Orange chooses 
maize, and Blue chooses quinoa.
Place all remaining crop tokens beside the board.
The Robber
The robber starts on the pasture hex marked “2”.
Starting Resources
At the beginning of the game, each player receives the starting 
resources for the settlement of his/her player color (marked with 
stars V in the starting set-up for your first game).
Event Tokens
Shuffle the event tokens face down (seed vial side up). 
Each player takes 7 of these tokens and places 
1 face-down token under each of the remaining 
3 settlements and 4 cities of his/her supply.
In addition, place 1 face-down event token each on the special 
victory point cards “Longest Road” and “Largest Army.”
Arrange the remaining event tokens into a face-down supply stack 
and place it beside the board.
Seed Vault display
4 Crop Storage Records 
(with build costs and seed storage)
1 Fields Hex 
(replaces desert)
1 Number 
Token “9”
1 Rules Book 
w/Crop Trust Almanac
90 Crop Tokens 
(in 5 diverse crop varieties)
fronts
backs
41 Event Tokens
(in 4 different categories)
backs
fronts
wheat
beans
maize (corn)
rice
quinoa
The front sides 
depict crops. The 
back sides depict 
seed storage vials

before 
harvest
after 
harvest
SCENARIO RULES
Unlike in the Catan base game, the Catan: Crop Trust scenario 
specifies the crops depicted by the “grain” card. Here, the fields 
produce wheat, maize, rice, quinoa, and beans. Hence, for all these 
crops we use the generic term “food” instead of “grain.” The grain 
resource cards are called “food cards.”
Play this scenario according to the standard Catan board game 
rules. Apply the following scenario rules, which modify game play.
HARVESTING FOOD
If someone rolls the number of a fields hex adjacent to your 
settlement/city, you may choose to harvest or not to harvest food. To 
harvest food, you remove a crop token of your choice from the fields 
hex and return it to the supply. After removing a crop token—no 
matter of which type—from a fields hex, take a food card (grain 
card) from the supply. For a city, you may remove 1-2 crop tokens 
and accordingly take 1-2 food cards in exchange.
Per normal Catan game rules, you must take 1 resource card for 
each settlement and 2 resource cards for each city adjacent to a 
terrain hex whose number was rolled. This rule also applies to this 
scenario… except for the resource “food” (grain). If someone 
rolls the number of a fields hex adjacent to your settlement/city, you 
may choose not to remove a crop token from the field. In this case, 
however, you receive no food card.
You make the choice to harvest/not harvest in 1-2 harvest rounds. 
Harvest rounds are conducted in player order, starting with the 
player that rolled the dice (called the “active player”). If the active 
player does not have a settlement/city adjacent to the producing 
hex, start with the next player in clockwise order entitled to receive 
production from this hex. During a harvest round, each player who 
has a right to harvest crops from this hex decides whether to remove 
1 crop token and take 1 food card in exchange. Each player 
participating in the harvest of crops produced by a fields hex may 
only remove 1 crop token when it is his/her turn to select.
Example: White rolls a “9”. The 
player order is White-Red-Blue-
Orange. Red, Orange, and Blue are 
on the “9” grain hex. Red is the first 
player clockwise from White and 
decides to harvest. She removes 
1 wheat crop token from this hex 
(returns it to the supply) and 
exchanges it for a food card (takes 
a grain card from the supply). Blue also decides to harvest. 
He removes 1 beans crop token and takes a food card. Blue 
cannot remove a 2nd crop token until the 2nd harvest round. 
Orange removes 1 maize token and takes a food card. Blue 
can now take his second harvest for his city, but he chooses 
not to harvest. 
This hex has only 2 remaining crop 
tokens. The next “9” roll will 
definitely force some hard choices 
due to a crop shortage on this field.
CROP SHORTAGE
If someone rolls the number on a fields 
hex and that hex does not contain 
enough crop tokens for all players entitled to harvest the crops 
produced by that hex, you still harvest food in 1-2 rounds as 
normal. Harvesting stops when the hex bears no more crop tokens.
Should there be no more crop tokens on a fields hex when it is your 
turn to harvest, you cannot harvest. You cannot obtain a food card. 
Now, all the owners of settlements or cities adjacent to this fields hex 
can no longer harvest to receive food cards.
ENSURING CROP DIVERSITY
Depositing Seeds in the Seed Vault
You may store crop tokens—and thus seeds—in the seed vault once 
during your turn by making a seed deposit. You may only deposit 
crop tokens of which there is at least 1 on a fields hex adjacent to 
one of your settlements or cities (for example: if none of the 
fields hexes adjacent to any of your settlements/cities have a rice 
token, you cannot deposit rice).
The robber does not affect the storage of crop tokens in the seed 
vault. You may take a crop token from a fields hex and store it in 
the seed vault even if that fields hex is being blocked by the robber.
If you decide to store crop tokens, follow this 4-step process (you 
must complete each step):
1. Pay the storage costs
2. Record the deposit and receive rewards
3. Store seeds in the seed vault
4. Replant crops in the fields
1. Pay the Storage Costs
First, pay the storage costs by returning 
1 lumber and 1 ore to the supply. Then you 
proceed as follows:
Example: Red takes 1 ore card and 
1 lumber card from her hand and 
returns them to the card supply. 
Her storage costs are now paid.

x1
3. Store Seeds in the Vault
You have 2 spaces of your player color on the 
seed vault tile. Use these as your storage areas in 
the seed vault. One space is empty. The other 
space is always filled with 4 crop tokens (remember that you filled 
that space at the beginning of the game).
From the supply, take 4 crop tokens of the same type as the token 
that you placed on your crop storage record (step 2 above). Place 
these tokens on your unoccupied space in the seed vault (seed vial 
side up).
If there aren’t enough crop tokens of a type available (which is very 
rare), place the remaining crop tokens of this type in the seed vault 
(again, even if they are less than 4).
Example: In step 2, Red 
placed a “beans” token on 
her crop storage record. She 
now takes 4 “beans” tokens 
from the supply and places 
them on her empty space in 
the seed vault.
4. Replant Crops in the Fields
Take the 4 crop tokens currently on a space 
of your color in the seed vault (i.e., the 
tokens next to the space you just filled with 
new crop tokens) out of the seed vault. Place the 4 tokens on the 
fields hexes of the game board. Distribute them as follows: 
• You must place each of the 4 crop tokens on a different 
fields hex. 
• You don’t have to own a settlement or city adjacent to the 
fields hexes on which you place them. 
• A fields hex may contain various identical crop tokens. 
• A fields hex may contain no more than 7 crop tokens. You may 
not place a crop token on a fields hex that already contains 
7 crop tokens. 
• Should multiple fields hexes already contain 7 crop tokens and, 
as a result, you are unable to distribute all 4 crop tokens among 
the fields hexes, return the remaining tokens to the supply.
Example: Red now takes 
the 4 “rice” tokens that are 
already in her other seed 
vault space and replants 
them. She distributes these 
4 tokens by placing each of 
them on different fields 
hexes on the board (1 token 
per hex).
2. Record the Deposit and Receive Rewards
Take 1 crop token from a fields hex adjacent to 
one of your settlements or cities. Place it on an 
unoccupied space of your Crop Storage Record. 
The Crop Storage Record shows 2 rows, each with 5 spaces for crop 
tokens. Place your first crop token on the green-framed space in the 
upper row. Place additional tokens one by one on the next spaces in 
the direction indicated by the arrows. The following rules apply:
• You may only place 1 crop token of each type in each row.
• If you want to store a crop token of a certain type and you have 
already placed a token of that type in the upper row, you may 
place it in the second row. 
• If you have already placed a token of a certain type in both the 
first and the second rows, you may not place a third token of 
that type on the Crop Storage Record. This also means that you 
cannot store crop tokens of this type in the seed vault (see 
below, Store seeds in the Vault). 
• You don’t receive a reward for the first crop token placed in a 
given row of your Crop Storage Record. When you place a 
second token, you receive 1 development card for free. For the 
third, fourth, and fifth crop tokens you place in one of the rows, 
you receive 1 victory point each. In theory, you can receive these 
rewards twice—if you manage to place 5 different crop tokens 
on the spaces of the second row as well. 
Example: Red removes 1 crop token “beans” from a fields hex 
adjacent to her settlement/city. She may not place the token in 
the first row of her Crop Storage Record because she has 
already placed a beans token there. She must place it on the 
first space of the second row of her Crop Storage Record, 
because that is the first available space in that row.

EFFECTS OF GROWTH
Crop tokens are not only removed from the board by 
harvesting. Building and developing the island’s 
network of settlements, cities, and roads and providing 
food for the knights also causes pressure on crops.
Revealing Event Tokens
Each time you build a settlement or city, take the event token 
underneath, turn it over, read the respective event out aloud, and 
resolve the event. Proceed similarly whenever you receive the special 
victory point cards “Longest Road” or “Largest Army” (be it the first 
time these cards are awarded or later, when they change hands).
If you have built a city and returned your settlement to your supply, 
draw a new event token from the supply stack and place it under 
this settlement. You take a similar approach when a special victory 
point card changes hands and you are the new owner of the card: 
after revealing the event token on the card and resolving the event, 
you draw a new event token from the supply stack and place it face 
down on the special victory point card. 
If you have played all event tokens from the supply stack, shuffle 
them and arrange them into a new face-down supply stack.
The fronts of the event tokens show various symbols indicating 
different disastrous effects as described below.
Regional Crop Loss
Remove all crop tokens of the type depicted on the 
event token from the fields hexes marked with the 
depicted numbers and return them to the supply. 
In this example, you would remove all “beans” crop tokens from 
the fields hexes marked with the number 
tokens 5, 6, or 8.
Small-scale Crop Loss
Remove 2 crop tokens of the type depicted on the event 
token from the board. Return these 2 tokens to the 
supply. You must first remove crop tokens of the 
depicted type from fields hexes adjacent to which you have built a 
settlement/city. If there are fewer than 2 of the affected crops on 
such hexes, remove the required number of crop tokens from other 
fields hexes.
In this example, you would remove 2 “quinoa” crop tokens from 
the board.
Large-scale Crop Loss
Remove 3 crop tokens of the type depicted on the event 
token from the board. Return these 3 tokens to the 
supply. You must first remove crop tokens of the 
depicted type from fields hexes adjacent to which you have built a 
settlement/city. If there are fewer than 3 of the affected crops on 
such hexes, remove the required number of crop tokens from other 
fields hexes.
In this example, you would remove 3 “maize” crop tokens from 
the board.
Monoculture
Monoculture is the cultivation of a single crop species 
in a given area. If a fields hex contains only 1 type of 
crop token (for example: only beans tokens, or only 
rice tokens), you must remove all of these tokens and return them 
to the supply.
Example: If a fields hex contains 2 beans and 3 maize, no 
action is taken. However, if one hex contains only 4 beans, 
and another hex contains only 1 rice, you must remove all 
4 beans tokens and the single rice token.
Extinction of Plant Species
Crop tokens may disappear from the game board during harvest 
and due to the event tokens. If there are no crop tokens of a given 
type on the board, and if no crop tokens of this type are stored in the 
seed vault, this plant species is considered extinct.
If this occurs, return all crop tokens of this type from the supply 
back into the box. Tokens of this type on crop storage records still 
remain.
It is now no longer possible to plant or harvest this crop, nor is it 
possible to store this crop in the seed vault.
If you reveal an event token that depicts an extinct plant species, 
return it to the box. Then draw a new event token from the supply 
and resolve its effects.

END OF THE GAME
The game ends as soon as any 1 of the following 3 end game 
conditions occur: 
1. A player reaches 10 victory points on his/her turn.
2. 3 of the 5 fields hexes no longer contain crop tokens.
3. 2 of 5 plant species are extinct.
If you meet end game condition 1, you win the game!
Important: If you reach your 10th victory point (for example, 
by building a settlement/city), you must still reveal an event 
token. If this event token causes end game condition 2 or 3 to 
occur, then end game condition 2 or 3 takes precedence.
If end game conditions 2 or 3 occur, the game ends immediately. If 
you are the player with the most crop tokens on your crop storage 
record, you win, because you are the player who most contributed to 
conserving plant diversity. In case of a tie, the tied player who has 
the most victory points wins. If the tie persists, both players win.
Please note: If, during the production phase, you remove a 
crop token from a fields hex, thereby causing end game condition 
2 or 3 to occur, you lose the game—even if you have the most 
crop tokens on your crop storage record. In this case, the player 
with the 2nd most crop tokens on his/her crop storage 
record wins.
If you reach 10 victory points during your build phase but are 
forced to reveal an event token, and this event token causes end 
game condition 2 or 3 to occur, you may still win the game, if you 
have the most crops stored in your crop storage record.
VARIABLE SET-UP
For subsequent games, we recommend that you use a variable 
set-up. To this end, shuffle the terrain hexes, distribute them face 
down, and then turn them over. Place the number tokens as shown 
in the set-up example below. This ensures a balanced distribution of 
the number tokens, while the varying positions of the fields hexes 
transform every game into a different and unique experience. 
Distribute the crop tokens among the fields hexes as follows: 
• Place 1 quinoa on each fields hex marked “2” and “12”. 
• Place 1 quinoa and 1 maize on each fields hex marked “3” 
 and “11”. 
• Place 1 quinoa, 1 maize, and 1 wheat on each fields hex 
marked “4” and “10”. 
• Place 1 quinoa, 1 maize, 1 wheat, and 1 beans on each fields 
hex marked “5” and “9”. 
• Place 1 crop token of each crop species on each fields hex 
marked “6” and “8”. 
At the beginning of the game, the following crop tokens are placed 
on the seed vault spaces: The starting player places 4 crop tokens 
“rice” on one of the 2 seed vault spaces of his/her color. The next 
players in clockwise order each choose 4 crop tokens “beans,” 
“wheat,” and “maize.”
Variable set-up 
for subsequent 
games

CATAN: CROP TRUST ALMANAC
INTRODUCTION
Our world now faces an enormous challenge: sustainably 
producing enough healthy food for a population expected to 
be over 9 billion people by 2050, all while our climate is 
changing and competition for natural resources grows. 
Fortunately, there is reason for optimism: crop diversity. 
Did you know there are 150,000 different types of wheat and 
115,000 different types of rice? So what? Well, we all need this 
diversity so that we can be prepared for whatever challenges 
agriculture may face. Without crop diversity it’s like playing a 
game of Catan without every resource card available to you. 
Using the wealth of diversity of our food crops is one of the 
most valuable, yet least recognized, ways of responding to the 
challenges facing the world’s food system. That’s because crop 
diversity is the foundation of agriculture, enabling it to evolve 
and adapt no matter what the future holds. However, much of 
this diversity has disappeared over the history of agriculture. 
Fortunately much of it is safeguarded in the world’s seed 
banks. The Svalbard Global Seed Vault, which opened in 2008, 
acts as a backup for these collections. The Crop Trust was 
established to ensure we don’t lose any more vital crop 
diversity by supporting these seed banks and the Svalbard 
Global Seed Vault.
THE SEED VAULT VISION
Deep inside a mountain on a remote island in the Svalbard 
archipelago, halfway between mainland Norway and the 
North Pole, lies the Svalbard Global Seed Vault— the world’s 
ultimate backup of crop diversity. It is a seed storage facility 
built to stand the test of time— including natural and 
man-made disasters. The Seed Vault holds the world’s largest 
and most diverse collection of crops, frozen for humanity.
Worldwide, thousands of seed banks conserve food crops, yet 
many of these are vulnerable. Natural catastrophes, war, or 
even a lack of funding or electrical failure can threaten daily 
operations. Something as small as a poorly functioning 
freezer can ruin an entire crop collection, and the loss of even 
a single crop variety is as irreversible as the extinction of a 
dinosaur. t was this vulnerability that sparked the idea of 
establishing the Svalbard Global Seed Vault: to serve as a 
back-up collection for these seed banks, securing—for 
centuries— some of the world’s most important food crops.
INFO ABOUT THE CROP TRUST 
The Crop Trust is the only organization whose sole mission is 
to ensure humanity conserves and makes available the world’s 
crop diversity for the future of our food system. Established in 
2004 and based in Bonn, Germany, the Crop Trust supports 
international and national seed banks and the world’s backup 
facility, the Svalbard Global Seed Vault. At the heart of the 
Crop Trust’s work is an endowment fund, which is designed to 
provide support for seed banks, forever.
A 10,000 Year Legacy We Can’t Leave to Chance 
Throughout the history of agriculture, farmers have nurtured 
millions of crop varieties, using them to create ingenious 
solutions to local challenges such as drought, soil salinity and 
pest and disease outbreaks. 
Today, crop diversity is what enables farmers to feed the world. 
It is the foundation of agriculture, and will enable it to meet 
the challenge of sustainably producing enough nutritious 
food for a growing world population. 
But crop diversity is at risk. If it’s not used or conserved, it 
disappears. And once it’s gone, it’s gone forever. 
No single seed bank can hold all crop diversity and make it 
available to plant breeders and farmers. That’s why the Crop 
Trust provides support to a number of different seed banks 
around the world, to ensure our agricultural legacy is 
conserved for all of us.
How You Have Already Helped 
By purchasing this Catan scenario, you have contributed to 
strengthening the foundation of our food system. Thank you!
Now let’s break bread and settle Catan.

FAQ
Who is involved in the Svalbard Global Seed Vault? 
The Seed Vault is owned and administered by the Norwegian Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 
The Crop Trust provides support for operations, and funds the preparation and shipment of 
seeds from developing countries. The Nordic Genetic Resource Center (NordGen) operates the 
facility and maintains a public online database of samples stored there. Statsbygg, an agency 
of the Norwegian government, is responsible for monitoring and maintaining the Seed Vault 
around the clock.
Why the island of Svalbard?
Svalbard was chosen partly because of its remote location: It is the furthest north you can fly 
on a commercial flight and a place with more polar bears than people. The area is also 
geologically and politically stable. The Seed Vault itself is built into a mountain called 
Platåberget in Norwegian, which means Plateau Mountain, far above the point of any possible 
future sea level rise. Chiseled 120 meters (393.7 feet) inside the mountain, the Seed Vault is 
surrounded by permafrost, ensuring that the Seed Vault rooms remain naturally frozen, even if 
the mechanical cooling system fails.
How much did it cost to build the Seed Vault?
The Norwegian government spent approximately US$9 million constructing the Seed Vault. In 
2018, another US$12.7 million was invested to upgrade the access tunnel. Operational costs are 
shared between the Norwegian government, the Crop Trust and NordGen.
Who owns the seeds in the Seed Vault?
Depositors own all the seeds they send to the Seed Vault, and can request them back at any 
time, just like a safety deposit box at a bank. The boxes of seeds are sealed by the depositors 
prior to shipment to Svalbard, and only they can retrieve them.
How many seeds can be stored in the Seed Vault?
The Seed Vault can store 4.5 million seed samples. Each sample contains on average, 500 seeds, 
so a maximum of 2.25 billion seeds can be stored there. It currently contains around 1 million 
seed samples, making it the world’s largest seed collection. This includes all of the crops in the 
fields of Catan (maize, rice, wheat, quinoa and beans)—and many more.
How are the seeds stored?
The seeds are stored at minus 18° Celsius (minus 0.4° Fahrenheit). They are sealed in specially 
designed foil packets that are placed in sealed boxes and stored on shelves inside the Seed 
Vault. The low temperature and moisture levels ensure little metabolic activity. This means the 
seeds can be grown decades, centuries, or in some cases, thousands of years into the future.
Are genetically modified seeds stored in the Seed Vault?
Nope… Norwegian law prohibits the import of genetically modified seeds. 
What are the main differences between the Seed Vault and seed banks?
Svalbard stores frozen copies of seeds held in other seed banks, acting as a kind of insurance 
policy. Scientists use seed banks every day to obtain seeds for research. This includes work to 
breed crops that are more resilient to climate change, healthier, and even tastier. If for 
whatever reason a seed bank runs into trouble, they can rest assured that their seeds are safely 
backed up in Svalbard. This happened in 2015 when a seed bank in Syria could no longer 
function due to civil war. It withdrew some of its seeds from the Seed Vault to re-establish its 
collection elsewhere.

THE CROPS OF CATAN: CROP TRUST
Rice
Mmmm… sushi. Paella. Risotto. You, me and half of the world eats rice every day; however, 
the popular grain faces a range of challenges. One of the biggest is salty soil, particularly in 
low-lying areas. This is likely to become more serious as sea levels rise. Scientists are using 
rice diversity to cook-up salt-tolerant types that also produce high yields, have better grain 
quality and are resistant to some diseases.
There are over 162,000 rice samples in the Seed Vault.
Maize/Corn
This giant tropical grass is one of agriculture’s biggest success stories. From tortillas to 
cornflakes to popcorn and ugali (an east African favorite), maize is the preferred food for 
more than 1.2 billion people worldwide. But for some, maize is the only thing on the menu, 
leaving their diets lacking in key vitamins. Scientists have studied the maize stored in the 
world’s seed banks to find those highest in vitamin A. Through crop breeding, scientists have 
used these to develop new types of maize that are both more nutritious and productive. 
There are over 38,000 maize/corn samples in the Seed Vault.
Beans
You might have gotten wind of the fact that beans are grown all around the world and that’s no 
surprise: they’re a vital source of protein, vitamins and minerals. But they are also sensitive to the 
effects of climate change, which could devastate production. Scientists are now using beans from the 
world’s seed banks to breed several “heat beating” types. These can tolerate temperatures up to 4 
degrees higher than the crop’s normal “comfort zone.” These are among the thousands of bean 
samples backed up in the Svalbard Global Seed Vault. Cool beans! 
There are over 48,000 bean samples in the Seed Vault.
Wheat
As any committed Catanian knows, no wheat means defeat, and that applies beyond the 
borders of the game. Wheat is a US$150 billion industry, providing almost a quarter of our 
daily calories. However, the crop is threatened by pests and diseases—and that could mean 
defeat for humankind. One of the most notorious diseases is the fungus stem rust. In 1999, a 
new stem rust strain, Ug99, appeared in Uganda and began wiping out entire fields as it spread 
towards the major wheat growing regions of Asia. As soon as Ug99 was discovered, the race 
began for scientists to scour the world’s wheat diversity in search of new sources of resistance 
and breed more resilient types. 
There are over 175,000 wheat samples in the Seed Vault.
Quinoa
Many cultures across the globe love quinoa, and rightly so: it is a highly nutritious crop that 
has adapted to thrive in a wide range of environments, and it tastes great. While it has become 
popular recently with foodies and hipsters, quinoa originated in the Andes over 7,000 years 
ago and was known as the “mother grain” of the Incan Empire. Now 20 different kinds of 
quinoa are grown in over 70 countries, as farmers and consumers alike realize the crop’s 
potential. To help crop scientists ensure future generations can enjoy this “superfood,” 
safeguarding it in the world’s seed banks is essential.
There are over 500 quinoa samples in the Seed Vault.

THREATS TO CROP DIVERSITY
As a Catanian, we know you have an inquisitive mind, so we’ll tell 
you a little bit about what crop loss can mean. There are two 
important types:
• Production loss: When yields tumble due to, for example, 
a pest or disease outbreak, as you’ll see below with potato 
and banana.
• Diversity loss: A reduction in the number of varieties of a 
particular crop. If there are 4,500 varieties of potato and only 
five are grown, the remainder are at risk of being lost forever if 
they are not conserved.
Both types of loss can have devastating effects. Here are some 
examples: 
Small-scale crop loss
Lentils: Lost but not Forgotten 
Lentils are a traditional crop on the Swabian Alb. Although this 
region in south-western Germany is characterized by relatively poor 
soils and a harsh climate, farmers have been able to produce lentils 
there for centuries. Due to this long history of lentil farming, 
traditional varieties that are well adapted to this region have 
emerged. One such variety is called the Albleisa, which had gone 
extinct in the 1960s, as the production of lentils and other “pulses” 
declined throughout Germany.
In the early 2000s, farmers in Swabia realized that this variety had 
vanished—even though they particularly liked its taste. They 
contacted one of the world’s largest and oldest seed banks, the 
Vavilov Institute in St Petersburg, Russia, and discovered that they 
still conserved a sample of this old variety. Scientists at the institute 
were able to help reintroduce Albleisa lentils to the Swabian Alb. 
Today it is one of the most popular local varieties and a local 
product that is sold well beyond the region. This is an example of 
relatively small-scale, local loss of crop diversity and how, thanks to 
conservation in seed banks, sometimes what seems to be lost forever 
can be brought back to life.
Large-scale crop loss
Potato Late Blight & the Irish Potato Famine 
The potato is the world’s third most important food, consumed by 
more than 1 billion people. But late blight might just be the most 
notorious disease in agriculture, affecting potatoes as well as 
tomatoes and other “nightshade” plants.
Late blight mutates and spreads like the flu, constantly overcoming 
plant resistance. More than 160 years after the disease wiped out 
potatoes across Europe and triggered the Irish Potato Famine, it 
continues to threaten farmers’ livelihoods around the world. It 
causes US$9 billion-worth of potato losses every year in developing 
countries alone, where the majority of potato farmers live.
Ireland’s famine was due to the fact that the island relied on a 
single potato variety, the lumper. It had no resistance to late blight. 
The keys to help fight the blight (and other diseases) can be found 
in the 4,500 different kinds of potato, grown and conserved around 
the world. 
Regional crop loss
Apples in the United States of America
Crop loss doesn’t only mean productivity loss. It can also mean the 
loss of options. This was the case with apples in North America. 
Apples originated in Central Asia, and have been grown for 
thousands of years across Asia and Europe. They came to North 
America on the ships of European settlers, and from there, spread 
like wildfire. After all, what would the United States be without apple 
pie?
In the mid-1800s, there were thousands of different apple varieties 
grown in the United States—an astonishing amount of diversity. 
However, with changes in agricultural practices, many of these 
varieties were lost or died off, along with the orchards and family 
farms that grew them. Estimates suggest North America may have 
lost 80% of its traditional apple varieties, leaving those remaining 
vulnerable to pests and disease, and depleting the culinary culture 
of the region. Old varieties like Mother apples, for example, were 
good for making dessert, while Harrison apples, were renowned for 
making a delicious golden cider. 
While thousands of these varieties have become commercially 
extinct, they are not all biologically extinct. Horticulturists known 
as “apple detectives” are tracking down these old apples tucked 
away in abandoned orchards or growing in back yards, and seed 
banks, such as those run by the United States Department of 
Agriculture (USDA), are helping to conserve them. These apples not 
only have important genes for resistance to the threats facing the 
modern apple orchard; they might just bring back some unique 
flavors too. 
Monoculture
The Cautionary Tale of ‘Big Mike’ 
Until the 1960s, the Gros Michel (known as Big Mike) was the main 
commercial banana variety. It was so popular with Western 
consumers that thousands of hectares of tropical forests across 
Latin America were converted to vast monocultures of this variety. 
However, Big Mike’s popularity led to its demise. A fungus known as 
Panama disease wiped out plantation after plantation during the 
1950s and 60s and along with it, the international trade in bananas.
Luckily, the banana industry bounced back with a new, immune 
variety, called the Cavendish, which soon became just as widely 
grown. In fact, the Cavendish (the bright, yellow variety ever-present 
in supermarkets and fruit bowls) may be the only banana you have 
ever eaten—and every one you eat is genetically identical. It’s this 
genetic uniformity, which also makes it vulnerable to disease, and 
in recent years a new strain of Panama disease has appeared which 
could kill off the Cavendish. In the scramble to save bananas from 
this incurable fungus, the world is looking to the 1,000-plus banana 
varieties conserved in seed banks to ensure the banana doesn’t split 
for good.

x1
®
Studio™
Regional Crop Loss: 
 Eliminate all of the crop tokens of the 
depicted type from the fields hexes with 
the depicted numbers.
Monocultures:
 If a fields hex has only 1 type of crop token on 
it, eliminate all crop tokens from that hex.
Small-scale Crop Loss:
 Remove 2 tokens of the crop depicted from the 
board, starting with fields hexes adjacent to 
your own settlements/cities.
Large-scale Crop Loss:
 Remove 3 tokens of the crop depicted from the 
board, starting with fields hexes adjacent to 
your own settlements/cities.
SUMMARY OF EVENT TILE EFFECTS
One time on your turn you may:
1. Pay 1 lumber and 1 ore to 
the supply.
2. Take 1 crop token (your 
choice) from a fields hex 
adjacent to 1 of your 
settlements/cities. Put 
that token onto your Crop 
Storage Record in the 
appropriate space. Your 
choice: top row or bottom 
row. Max. 1 of each crop 
type per row.
3. Take 4 corresponding crop 
tokens from the supply 
and place them into your 
seed vault storage area.
4. Take the 4 crop tokens 
previously in your seed 
vault storage area. 
Place these tokens onto 
4 separate field hexes 
of your choice.
SUMMARY OF STORING SEEDS IN THE SEED VAULT
CREDITS
Designers: Klaus & Benjamin Teuber
Almanac: Crop Trust Team
Development: Catan GmbH with Kosmos Verlag, Catan Studio, and Crop Trust
Art: Vincent Dutrait
Editor: Pete Fenlon
Production & Graphic Design: Ron Magin and Michaela Kienle
Inspiration: Brian Lainoff, Pierre Ortolan, Gerrit de Veer LSKC 31-20, Cary Fowler
Special Thanks: Cierra Martin, Neil Palmer, Charlotte Lusty, Marie Haga, and 
the whole Crop Trust team and their associates in Norway and throughout the world.
Copyright © 2018 Catan GmbH and Catan Studio. Catan, The Settlers of Catan, and the “Catan Sun” 
mark are trademark properties of Catan GmbH (catan.com). Crop Trust and the Crop Trust trademarks 
are trademark properties of the Global Crop Diversity Trust (croptrust.com). Catan Studio is a trading 
name of Asmodee North America, Inc. All rights reserved.