INTRODUCTION
In the late Middle Ages, trade flourished in Europe. Economic groups like the Hanseatic League, the Welser 
and Fugger families, and merchants from Northern Italy established trading posts and factories in all of the 
important cities throughout Europe. These businesses provided the population with goods of all kinds, such 
as fur from the north, cloth from Flanders, wine from the south, and spices from India. The most important 
commodity of all was salt. In the Middle Ages salt was highly prized, as it was used to preserve food.
You are a powerful merchant! Start your trading posts in three cities. Recruit new merchants and send them to 
distant cities to establish trading posts and expand your interests. The more trading posts you have, the more 
commodities are at your disposal which you can sell profitably in foreign cities.
To ensure that your commodities arrive safely at their destination, you must open up trade routes and equip 
caravans. You win the game if you are the first to deliver all of your commodities to foreign cities.
GAME COMPONENTS
1 double sided game board:
Main game—using all of Europe (ship side)
Short game—using only Eastern Europe (whale side)
185 wooden game pieces:
120 trade routes (in 4 colors, 30 of each)
48 trading posts (in 4 colors, 12 of each)
8 caravans (in 4 colors, 2 of each)
	
8 merchants (in 4 colors, 2 of each) 1 robber 
120 cards:
19 for each of the 5 resource types, 25 development cards
2 die-cut cardboard sheets containing:
40 commodity tokens
68 coins (52 x 1, 16 x 3)
15 number tokens
4 building costs overviews
2 dice
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 1

Path with double arrow
Path (on land)
THE GAME BOARD
The board is a depiction of Europe. It is made up of five different 
terrain types, each of which produces a specific resource.
• Forest (forest and mountain forest) produce lumber.
• Pasture (pasture and mountain pasture) produce wool.
• Fields produce grain.
• Mountains produce ore.
• Saltworks produce salt (from the sea and mountains).
An edge where 2 terrain hexes meet is called a “path.” A point 
where 3 terrain hexes meet is called an “intersection.”
Intersections marked with a brown or purple hexagon represent 
city-sites. During the starting set-up, you build your starting 
trading posts on the purple city-sites.
Token Space
without number
City-site
City-site (Coastal)
Token space with number
Pasture
Path (at sea)
Saltworks
Mountains
Forest
Fields
Gold Income in 
Coastal Cities
Intersection
Storage space w/
commodity token
Storage space w/
commodity token 
and trading post
Storage Area
Empty storage 
space
Game Board Overview
Purple city-sites are for 
starting trading posts
Token space marked 
with black arch
Path with double arrow
10 unmarked number 
tokens are placed here 
during preparation
Commodity tokens are placed 
here during preparation
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 2

Use this board for short games
PREPARATION
• Before you start your first game, carefully detach all die-cut 
pieces from the cardboard frame and place them next to the 
game board.
• Place the game board in the center of the table. If this is your 
first game, place the side marked with a whale tail face up 
(this is the short game side). If you already have played a short 
game, you can either play it again or flip the board over and 
play the longer main game (marked with a sailing ship).
• Place the five number tokens with black arches on their 
corresponding spaces on the board. These are the 
unnumbered spaces with black arches. Be sure that the color 
of the space matches the color of the token. 
• Place the remaining ten number tokens face down in the sea 
near the compass to form a stock.
• Shuffle the development cards and place them face-down 
beside the game board.
• Sort the resource cards into five stacks, one for each of the five 
resource types, and put them face-up beside the game board. 
These stacks of resource cards form the resource supply.
• Place the robber piece on any terrain hex without a number or 
number token.
• Give each player 3 gold (3 coins with value 1 each) and place 
the remaining coins next to the game board.
• Place the commodity tokens in the Mediterranean Sea.
• Each player also receives one building costs overview and takes 
the following game pieces of his color:
- 30 trade routes
- 2 caravans
- 2 merchants
- Trading posts, their number depending on the number of 
players and on which side of the game plan was chosen for 
play (see Preparation for the Short Game).
Preparation for 
the Short Game
If it is your first game or you do not have much time, use 
the side of the game board with the whale’s tail.
Storage Area Setup for Short Game
with 4 players
with 3 players
• In a 3-player game, each player receives 8 trading posts and 
6 commodity tokens. Place your 6 commodity tokens on the 
storage spaces in your storage area—one on each space, 
starting from the bottom. Then place 1 of your trading posts on 
top of the bottom 5 tokens, leaving the top token empty. Your 
remaining 3 trading posts are used for your starting set-up.
• In a 4-player game, each player receives 7 trading posts and 
5 commodity tokens. Place your 5 commodity tokens on the 
storage spaces in your storage area—one on each space, 
starting from the bottom. Then place 1 of your trading posts on 
each of the bottom 4 tokens, leaving the top token empty. Your 
remaining 3 trading posts are used for your starting set-up.
• All unused commodity tokens and trading posts are removed 
from the game.
• Rules for preparation of the main game are in the appendix on 
page 10.
Starting Set-up for 
the Short Game
When you play the short game for the first time, use the fixed 
starting set-up. The player with the red game pieces is the starting 
player. From the second game on, use the variable starting set-up 
(see the Appendix on page 10).
• Place the trading posts, trade routes, and caravans as shown in 
the illustration on the next page.
• The players receive the following starting resources:
 Red: 1 lumber, 1 grain, 1 salt
 Blue: 1 salt, 1 wool, 1 ore
 White: 1 lumber, 1 grain, 1 wool
 Orange: 1 ore, 1 salt, 1 grain
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 3

• The set-up for the short game is shown below. Please note: in 
a 3-player game, you must still place the trading posts of the 
unused fourth color (they are considered neutral). However, 
SHORT GAME OVERVIEW
The starting player begins the game by taking his first turn. 
Then the other players follow in clockwise order. A turn consists 
of a production phase and an action phase.
Production Phase (for details see page 5)
Roll the dice! If you roll a “7,” you activate and move 
the robber. Any other dice result determines the resource 
production and the distribution of resource cards to the players. 
Then move on to the action phase.
Action Phase (for details see page 6)
As long as you can pay the required resources, you may perform 
the following actions as often as you like, in any order. For 
example, you may first trade, then build, then trade again, and 
move your caravans or your merchants.
• Trade: You may trade resources with your opponents 
and/or with the resource card supply.
do not place the trade route and caravan of the unused color. 
Neutral trading posts don’t produce during the game, but you 
may deliver commodities to them (for details see page 8).
• Build – buy – open up trade: You may use your 
resources to recruit merchants, put together caravans, 
and open up trade routes. In addition, you may buy 
development cards.
• Move merchants and build trading posts: Pay 
1 resource card to move your merchant a distance of 
1-3 intersections. If your merchant ends its total move on an 
empty city-site, you must exchange the merchant for one of 
your trading posts (i.e., the merchant establishes a branch).
• Move merchants and deliver commodity tokens: 
Pay 1 salt card to move your caravan a distance of 
1-3 trade routes.
 If your caravan moves beside, or passes by, an opponent’s 
(or neutral) trading post during your turn, and the trading 
post doesn’t have a commodity token yet, you may deliver a 
commodity token there (place it under the trading post).
• Play a development card: You may play 1 development 
card per turn; however, you may not play a development 
card on the turn you buy it.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 4

Forests 
produce lumber
Pastures 
produce wool
Mountain Forests 
produce lumber
Mountain Pastures 
produce wool
Fields 
produce grain
Mountains 
produce ore
Saltworks 
produce salt
&
&
THE GAME RULES IN DETAIL
PRODUCTION PHASE
Begin your turn by rolling both dice. (Note: You may choose to 
play a “Lancer” development card before the roll.) Based on the 
sum of the numbers on the dice, one of two effects occurs:
The roll is a “7” and you move the robber.
If you roll a “7,” no one receives any resources, and no one 
receives gold as compensation. Instead, the robber strikes:
• Lose resources: Each player who has more than 7 resource 
cards must select half of their cards and return them to the 
supply (round down). For example, if you have 9 cards, 
you must discard 4 of them.
• Move the robber: If you rolled the “7,” you must move the 
robber. Place it onto any other numbered terrain hex of 
your choice.
• Steal a resource: You then steal 1 resource card from an 
opponent who has a trading post adjacent to the hex newly 
occupied by the robber. Your opponent holds his resource 
cards face down. You then take 1 card and add it to your own 
hand. If 2 or more players have adjacent trading posts, you 
choose which player you want to steal a card from. If there are 
no trading posts adjacent to the robber, you get nothing.
Keep your resource cards hidden in your hand. You must always 
reveal how many resources you have. However, you are not 
required to reveal what type of resources you have.
Resource shortage:
If there are not enough cards of a given resource in the supply to 
fulfill everyone’s production, no one receives any of that type of 
resource during the turn.
Gold compensation:
If you do not receive any resources after a production roll, take 
1 gold as your compensation. This occurs when all of your trading 
posts fail to produce: whether due to not having a trading post 
adjacent to the number rolled, due to being occupied by the 
robber, and/or due to a shortage of resources. This rule applies to 
all players, not just the player rolling the die. However, no gold 
compensation occurs if a 7 is rolled.
Example: A “5” was rolled. Blue has a trading post in Lyon 
adjacent to the pasture hex. He receives 1 wool. Orange and Red 
each have 1 trading post (in Köln and Nürnberg) adjacent to the 
fields hex whose number was rolled; they receive 1 grain each. 
White does not receive any resources from the roll, so White takes 
1 gold from the supply as compensation.
The roll is not a “7”: the terrain hexes produce 
resources for all players.
• For each trading post adjacent to a terrain hex with the number 
just rolled, the player who owns the trading post takes 
1 resource card corresponding to the type of resource 
produced by this terrain. The illustration at the top right shows 
the resource type produced by each terrain type.
• If you have 2 or 3 trading posts adjacent to the same terrain 
hex, you receive 1 resource card for each trading post.
• Resources blocked: If the number of a terrain hex occupied 
by the robber is rolled, the owners of adjacent trading posts do 
not receive resources for that hex.
Example: Red rolls a “7” and decides to move the robber from 
her “8” pasture hex, to the “10” saltworks hex. Red can steal a 
resource card from either White or Blue, she chooses Blue.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 5

ACTION PHASE
As long as all conditions are satisfied, you may perform the 
following actions multiple times, in any order, during your turn:
1)	Trade
On your turn, you may trade with your opponents, exchange 
resources with the supply, and/or purchase resources of your 
choice for 2 gold.
Trade with opponents: On your turn, you may trade resources 
and gold with your opponents. You may tell them which resources 
you want and which resources you are willing to give in exchange. 
You may also listen to your opponents’ offers and 
make counteroffers.
Important: Players may only trade cards and gold with the 
player whose turn it is.
Use gold to buy a resource: On your turn, you may buy any 
1 resource of your choice for 2 gold. Return 2 gold to the supply 
and take 1 resource card from the supply. 
Important: You may only use gold to purchase a maximum of 
2 resources per turn.
Exchange resources with the supply: You may return 
3 resource cards of the same type to the supply. In exchange, you 
may take 1 gold or 1 resource card of your choice.
Important: You may not trade like resources (e.g., 3 ore 
cannot be traded in for 1 ore).
2)	Build and Buy Development Cards
You must return a specific combination of resource cards to the 
supply in order to recruit a merchant, assemble a caravan, open 
up a trade route, or buy a development card. After paying, take the 
corresponding game piece from your supply and place it on the 
game board, or take the top development card from the stack and 
place it face down in front of you.
As long as you can pay the building costs, you may buy and build 
as many times as you want during your turn.
Important: Once the trade routes in your supply are used up, 
you can’t build any more trade routes. Therefore, you should 
carefully plan the setup of your trade route network.
A) Development Card Costs: 1 Wool and 1 Salt
You must pay 1 wool and 1 salt to 
buy a development card. Take the top 
development card from the stack, look 
at it, and place it face down in front 
of you.
Important: You may not play a 
development card on the same turn 
you buy it. You may play no more 
than 1 development card per turn.
B) Merchant Costs: 1 Wool, 1 Grain, 1 Lumber
You must pay 1 wool, 1 grain, and 1 
lumber to recruit a merchant. Place 
your new merchant next to any of 
your trading posts. If you already have 
both merchants on the game board, 
after paying the usual costs, you may 
remove 1 from the board and then 
place the piece as normal.
C) Caravan Costs: 1 Ore , 1 Lumber, 1 Salt
You must pay 1 ore, 1 lumber, and 1 
salt to assemble a caravan. Place your 
new caravan next to 1 of your trade 
routes that is directly adjacent to 1 of 
your trading posts. If you already have 
both of your caravans on the board, 
you may pay the usual resource costs 
to remove 1 from the board and then 
place the piece as normal.
Important: A caravan may only be placed next to 1 of your 
trade routes adjacent to 1 of your trading posts. 
D) Trade Route Costs: 1 Ore and 1 Lumber
You must return 1 ore and 1 lumber 
to the supply in order to build a trade 
route. Place the trade route piece on 
an empty path, which then becomes 
an opened-up trade route. Each new 
trade route must be adjacent to 1 
of your trading posts or to 1 of your 
already existing trade routes.
Important: Foreign trading posts do not block you from 
opening up trade routes. If your trade route reaches the trading 
post of an opponent, you may place another trade route on the 
other side of the trading post (after paying the building costs for 
the trade route, of course).
Trade routes produce gold:
• If you build a trade route and, as a result, an “isolated” city-site 
is connected to another city-site for the first time, you and 
perhaps other players may receive gold. An isolated city-site is 
a city-site that is not connected to any other city-site by a 
trade route.
Important: The city-site does not have to be occupied by a 
trading post to give gold.
• First determine the shortest route (number of consecutive 
trade routes) that connects the previously isolated city-site to 
another city-site. If there is more than 1 shortest route, the 
player whose turn it is chooses which of those routes to use.
• You and each of the other players then receive 1 gold for each 
of your trade routes that is part of the shortest route (see 
example at the top of the next page).
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 6

Double arrow on paths: If you convert a path marked with 
a double arrow into a trade route, you may immediately place 
another trade route at no cost. This trade route must be adjacent 
to the trade route you have just opened up.
3)	Move a Merchant and 
Build a Trading Post
a) Move a Merchant
You move your merchant from intersection to intersection. For 
each grain you return to the supply, you may move 1 of your 
merchants a distance of up to 3 intersections. For example, if 
you pay 3 grain, you may move a merchant a distance of up to 
9 intersections as one move.
The following rules apply:
• The movement of a merchant may not end on an intersection 
already occupied by another merchant or by a trading post. 
However, your merchant may move past another merchant 
or another player’s trading post. Trade routes do not block a 
merchant’s movement.
• You do not have to move a merchant the full distance allowed 
by the total grain you pay. If you move it a shorter distance, any 
unused movement is forfeited.
• You may not split the movement distance from 1 grain 
(3 intersections) between your 2 merchants. For example, 
you may not pay 1 grain to move 1 merchant 2 intersections 
and your other merchant 1 intersection. However, you may 
pay 2 grain and move each merchant a distance of up to 
3 intersections.
Example: In the illustration above, Red opens up the trade route 
north-east of Torino. He thus connects the city-site Torino with 
another city-site–Venezia–for the first time. The connection is 
3 trade routes long. Red receives 1 gold for her trade route and 
Blue receives 2 gold for his 2 trade routes. Red now uses another 
trade route to connect the upper blue city (Bern) with other cities 
for the first time. The shortest route between these city-sites is 2 
trade routes long, for which she receives 2 gold. The longer route, 
Venezia to Bern (3 trade routes), gets nothing.
Example: In the illustration above, Blue wants to connect to 
Kaliningrad. He places his first trade route on a path marked 
with a double arrow and may immediately place a trade route 
on the second path towards Kaliningrad, at no cost. As a reward 
for connecting Kaliningrad for the first time, Blue receives 
3 gold.
Example: It is White’s turn. She recruited a merchant and 
placed it next to Praha. To improve her salt production, White 
wants to move the merchant to Kaliningrad. Unfortunately, she 
only has 1 grain. White moves her merchant a distance of 
3 intersections, onto the intersection east of Wroclaw. On her next 
turn—provided that she has acquired 1 grain—White could then 
move her merchant to Kaliningrad and build a trading 
post there.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 7

b) Build a Trading Post
If your merchant ends its total movement on an empty purple or 
brown city-site, immediately replace that merchant with a trading 
post (think of it as one of your merchants establishing a branch 
of your trading empire in the new city). Return the merchant 
piece to your supply, take a trading post from your storage area, 
and place it on the city-site. This transformation of a merchant 
into a trading post doesn’t cost additional resources. If you want 
to avoid this transformation, you must end your merchant’s 
movement on an intersection that does not have an 
empty city-site.
Free a commodity token: When you build a trading post, 
you take its corresponding commodity token from your storage 
area and place it in front of you. This commodity token is now 
available for delivery to one of your opponents’ trading posts.
Coastal cities: If you build a trading post on a city-site on the 
coast where gold coins are depicted under the city’s name, you 
receive gold equal to the amount indicated by the number of gold 
coins at that city.
Place and move a number token: If a newly built trading post 
is adjacent to a terrain hex without number in the center of the 
hex, choose one of the face-down number tokens from the supply 
and place it on the token space of that terrain hex. The number 
token must have the same color as the hex’s token space. If there 
are no more face-down number tokens of matching color in the 
supply, you must move a number token has already been placed. 
Remove any number token of matching color from another 
terrain hex and place it on the empty token space of your new 
terrain hex.
4)	Move Caravans and 
Deliver Commodity Tokens
a) Move Caravans
You move your caravans from trade route to trade route. You 
may never move a caravan onto or past a path that has not been 
converted into a trade route. For each salt you pay, you may move 
1 of your caravans a distance of 1-3 trade routes. For example, if 
you pay 3 salt, you may move a caravan a distance of 1-9 trade 
route paths in one turn.
The following rules apply to caravan movement:
• A maximum of 2 caravans of any of the players may be 
positioned next to a single trade route (i.e., one on each 
side of the route marker). Therefore, the movement of your 
caravan may not end on a trade route already occupied by 
2 caravans. However, you may move it past such a trade route.
Example: It is Blue’s turn, and he decides to foil White’s plan. 
Blue pays 2 gold to buy 1 grain, then moves his merchant to 
Kaliningrad and builds a trading post there. Blue returns his 
merchant to the supply. Because he has built the trading post, he 
now must place a number token on the empty token space. There 
is only 1 white face-down number token left in the supply, so 
Blue turns the token face up—it is an 11. Blue places it on the 
blank saltworks circle in the center of the hex.
Important: If the trading post borders on two or even three 
terrain hexes without numbers, only 1 new number token 
may be placed on 1 of these hexes.
Example: A Red has recruited a merchant in Budapest. She 
sends it to Beograd and builds a trading post there. Beograd 
borders on two terrain hexes that have no number yet. The two 
face-down number tokens for mountains were already placed 
on other terrain hexes; a face-down number token for grain is 
still available.
B Red chooses the mountains. She moves the number “9” token 
onto the new mountains hex, thus reducing her opponents’ ore 
income—and improving her own ore income, of course.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 8

C
D
• You may not split the movement distance from 1 salt (1-3 trade 
routes) between 2 caravans. For example, you may not pay 
1 salt to move 1 caravan a distance of 2 trade routes and 
your other caravan a distance of 1 trade route. However, 
you may pay 2 salt and move each caravan a distance of 
1-3 trade routes.
b) Pay for Using Foreign Trade Routes
If you move 1 of your caravans onto or past 1 or more of another 
player’s trade routes during your turn, you must pay that player 
a “right of way” fee of 1 gold. This 1 gold is a flat fee that entitles 
your caravan to use any number of the player’s trade routes 
during your current turn.
Important: You must pay this fee to each player whose trade 
routes you use.
The following rules apply:
• If you also use the same opponent’s trade routes with your 
second caravan, you must pay that opponent a second gold.
• You must make these payments each turn that your caravans 
use opponents’ trade routes.
• If 1 of your caravans begins your turn on another player’s trade 
route, but does not move or moves off and doesn’t use that 
player’s trade routes again, no gold payment is required.
• If a player pays you to use your trade route, you cannot refuse 
them access to your route.
c) Deliver Commodity Tokens
If you move a caravan onto or past a trade route that is directly 
adjacent to a trading post that is not your own, you may deliver 
1 of your available commodity tokens to that trading post. Place 
1 of your commodity tokens under that trading post. Even if an 
opponent later builds a trading post next to your caravan, you 
may deliver a commodity token there on your turn. To deliver 
commodity tokens, the following requirements must be met:
• There must be no other commodity tokens under the trading 
post yet.
• You must have an available commodity token in your storage 
area, i.e., you already built a trading post and freed up a 
commodity token.
• The trading post must not belong to you.
In order to deliver more commodity tokens, you must build your 
trading posts. This frees up the commodity tokens, thus making 
them available for delivery.
Important: You don’t have to pay for delivering a commodity 
token. After delivery, your caravan may still move in any 
direction—provided that you have paid enough salt.
5) Play Development Cards
During your turn, you may play 1 (and only 1) development card. 
You may play the development card before rolling the dice for the 
production phase or at any moment during your action phase. 
However, you may not play a development card on the turn you 
buy it. 
After you play a development card, follow the directions given on 
the card, then discard it. Discarded development cards form the 
discard pile. If all of the development cards have been purchased, 
shuffle the discard pile to form the new development card stack.
Example: During his last turn, Blue equipped a caravan and placed it on a trade route next to Bern A. Blue now opens up a trade route to 
Bruxelles. He pays 1 salt and, for the 1st of his 3 spaces, moves his caravan to Paris, where he delivers a commodity token (placing it under 
Orange’s trading post) B. For the 2nd space, he moves his caravan via the newly built trade route to Bruxelles and delivers his second 
commodity token to White’s trading post C. Finally, for his 3rd space, Blue moves his caravan onto White’s trade route and delivers his third 
commodity token to the Orange’s trading post in Köln D. Blue must pay White 1 gold for using her trade route—and does so.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 9

WINNING THE GAME
If you deliver all of your commodity tokens, the game immediately 
ends, and you win!
APPENDIX
Preparation for the Main Game
If you have already played a short game, you should use the 
variable starting set-up from the second game on.
• In a 3-player game, each player receives 12 trading posts and 
10 commodity tokens. Place your 10 commodity tokens on the 
storage spaces in your storage area, starting from the bottom.
 Place 1 of your trading posts on each of your bottom 
9 commodity tokens, leaving the top token uncovered.
 Each player places 3 trading posts in front of him, to be used 
during the starting set-up.
• In a 4-player game, each player receives 10 trading posts and 
8 commodity tokens. Place your 8 commodity tokens on the 
storage spaces in your storage area, starting from the bottom.
 Place 1 of your trading posts on each of your bottom 
7 commodity tokens, leaving the top token uncovered.
• Place your 3 remaining trading posts in front of yourself. These 
are used for your starting set-up.
Starting Set-up for the Variable Game
The main game is always played with the variable starting set-up. 
Each player places 3 trading posts, 1 trade route, and 1 caravan. 
In a 3-player game, each player places 1 additional neutral 
trading post of the color not chosen by the players.
Important: During starting set-up, trading posts may only be 
placed on purple city-sites.
Determine the Turn Order
The oldest player begins and rolls both dice. Then, proceeding 
clockwise, the other players follow in turn.
If you roll the highest, you are the starting player. The starting 
player begins the starting set-up, and is also the first to roll the 
dice for production.
Note: If multiple players tie for the highest roll, the tied players 
roll again until the tie is broken.
Place the Starting Trading Posts
If you are the starting player, choose one of the purple city-sites 
and place one of your trading posts there.
Then, proceeding clockwise, each of the other players does the 
same. The last player to place his first trading post now places a 
second trading post.
Then, proceeding counter-clockwise, each of the other players 
places a second trading post. Finally, each player places a third 
trading post—beginning with the starting player and 
proceeding clockwise.
Distribute Starting Resources
Each player now receives their starting resource cards based upon 
the last trading post they placed. Take 1 resource card for each 
terrain hex adjacent to the last trading post you placed.
Place Neutral Trading Posts (3-Player Game)
In a 3-player game, the last player to place his final trading post 
also places a neutral trading post (the color not chosen) on a 
purple city-site. Then, proceeding clockwise, each of the other 
players also place a neutral trading post on a purple city-site.
Place Trade Route and Caravan
The last player to place his final trading post places one of his 
trade routes on a path adjacent to any one of his three trading 
posts. He also places one of his caravans next to that trade route. 
Then, proceeding counter clockwise, each of the other players does 
the same.
Important: During starting set-up, the players are not 
allowed to place their trade routes in such a way that isolated 
city-sites are connected to each other.
BASIC PLAYING TIPS
Secure Your Resources
During the initial phase of the game, it is important to increase 
your resource production. Therefore, you should recruit merchants 
early on and send them to empty city-sites. With this in mind, 
build your new trading posts adjacent to terrain hexes that 
produce resources of which you would like to have more of.
For example, if you don’t have a trading post adjacent to a pasture 
hex after the set-up phase is finished, you will not produce wool. 
In this case, you should send your first merchant to a city-site 
adjacent to a pasture hex.
As the game progresses, remember that the number tokens will 
move to terrain hexes that don’t have number tokens yet. So, you 
should keep in mind which hexes will stop producing resources, 
and when. Try to build new trading posts early enough to 
counterbalance this reduced production.
When you use one of your merchants to establish a new trading 
post, please also keep in mind that, on the average, 6 and 8 are the 
most frequently rolled numbers. In decreasing order, the odds of 
being rolled becomes smaller for 5 and 9, 4 and 10, and 3 and 11. 
2 and 12 are the least frequently rolled numbers.
Note: The dots below the numbers on the number tokens 
indicate the likelihood of that number being rolled. The more 
dots, the higher the chance of this number being rolled.
Generating Gold by Building Trade Routes
With gold, you can buy much-needed resources and use your 
opponents’ trade routes to move your caravans to deliver goods. 
Therefore, gold is very important—you shouldn’t waste it but use 
it only in important situations.
One of the ways to obtain gold is by connecting isolated city-sites 
to other city-sites via trade routes. When 1 of those city-sites 
contains an opponent’s trading post, you also have the opportunity 
to move your caravan to that trading post and deliver your 
commodities there.
You can also obtain gold by building trading posts in some of the 
coastal cities and occasionally from production rolls.
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 10

A Bit of Strategic Planning for 
Trading Posts and Trade Routes
If your trading posts are all concentrated in one area, you make 
it easy for your opponents to deliver commodity tokens to your 
trading posts. If you build your trading posts in a more scattered 
fashion, you make commodity delivery more difficult for your 
opponents. Scattering your cities also gives you more opportunities 
to reach your opponents’ concentrated settlement areas and 
deliver your commodities there.
If you connect your trading posts via your trade routes, you may 
get gold, but you give your opponents an easier opportunity to 
deliver commodity tokens to your trading posts. Remember, they 
can deliver commodities to your trading posts but you cannot.
Author’s notes
The Historical Roots of “Merchants of Europe”
After the success of Settlers of America: Trails to Rails in 
the U.S., I started to develop a similar scenario for medieval 
Europe. Of course, there were neither rails nor trains in the 
Middle Ages. But the transport of commodities and people still 
took place in the Middle Ages—albeit by other means. Below, 
I would like to share with you, dear reader, a little of my 
historical research that contributed to the development of the 
“Merchants of Europe” game.
Due to booming cities, trade flourished in the Middle Ages. 
Merchants from Northern Italy and Central Europe formed 
partnerships to build trading companies. They established 
branches (trading posts, factories, etc.) in Northern and 
Eastern Europe, England, Spain, France, and Italy. This 
facilitated a brisk commodity trade across all of Europe. 
Famous examples of these companies are the Hanseatic 
League, the Great Ravensburg Trading Company and the 
Welser trading company.
The “Merchants of Europe” game is a rough simulation of 
the trading activities of this time. In this game, you and 
your opponents are the representatives of powerful merchant 
families or trading companies. Your goal is to establish a 
large trade network across Europe and become the most 
successful merchant.
You start with 3 branches or trading posts, as the Hanseatic 
League called them, and send out merchants to establish 
new trading posts in distant cities. You pay lumber, wool, 
and grain to recruit merchants. These are the resources your 
merchant needs to build a trading post.
When you establish a new trading post, you get access to 
new commodities. These commodities may be furs from the 
north, wine from the south, or cloth from Flanders. Since 
the diversity of goods traded in Europe would go beyond the 
scope of the game, the commodity tokens serve as symbols for 
lucrative commodities of all kinds.
By means of caravans, you transport the commodity tokens 
to cities where your opponents have trading posts—that is, to 
cities that have a demand for your commodities. Of course, in 
the Middle Ages goods were transported by water and by land, 
so your caravan actually represents the trading ships at sea, 
the rafts and boats on the rivers, as well as the wagons used 
by long-distance merchants trekking along poorly 
surfaced roads.
Transporting commodities was a risky endeavor in the Middle 
Ages. Pirates at sea and robber barons and brigands on 
land were on the prowl for rich booty. The building costs thus 
include ore to arm the cogs and caravans, while the lumber 
was used to build the means of transportation. And why is 
salt the third component of the building costs? In the Middle 
Ages, salt was one of the most important commodities—if 
not the most important of all. Salt, therefore, symbolizes all 
the ordinary goods a caravan or cog carried—goods without 
which putting together a caravan wouldn’t have made any 
sense at all.
In the Middle Ages, only a few paved roads from Roman times 
existed. The trade routes usually were mainly dirt trails where 
the merchants’ oxcarts barely advanced.
That’s why you don’t build roads in “Merchants of Europe” 
but open up trade routes. Opening up trade routes or 
choosing the best trade route certainly wasn’t an easy thing 
to do. On their way, the merchants had to pay tributes to the 
respective local rulers so they would send them a mounted 
escort for protection against robbers, they had to pay tolls, 
and lodging had to be available for the caravan members 
to rest. Tolls and tributes had also to be paid when traveling 
on rivers and at sea. Merchants who had no feel for the best 
trade route were doomed to failure from the start.
In part, the people in charge used these tributes to repair 
trade routes, to ensure protection against highwaymen and to 
expand seaport facilities. These activities primarily required 
the resources lumber and ore. To prevent the game from 
becoming too complicated, I thus decided the costs for opening 
up a trade route to be lumber and ore.
Despite adverse medieval conditions, you and your opponents 
will succeed in building a trading empire—following in the 
footsteps of the historical leaders, the Welser, Fugger, and their 
ilk. Have lots of fun with it!
— Klaus Teuber, June 2011
Editorial note:
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 11

For reasons of game design, the positions of the cities on the game board correspond only approximately to their geographic positions. 
Their locations are correctly depicted on the map of Europe above.
We have tried to include the capitals of as many European countries as possible. Some of these cities either did not yet exist in the 
Middle Ages or had a different name at the time. For example, in “Merchants of Europe” Tirana, the present-day capital of Albania 
(which wasn’t founded until the 17th century) stands in for the Albanian territory in the Middle Ages. Dublin is used instead of Baile 
Átha Cliath, for space savings, as well as player familiarity. On the map above, we have included the modern English names of all of 
these cities. We have also included the Medieval name for these cities when it differs from the names depicted on the game board.
Credits
Game Designer: Klaus Teuber
Graphic Design: M. Kienle/Fine Tuning
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Editorial team (Germany): TM-Spiele
Development (English Edition): Coleman Charlton
Translation (English Edition): Gavin Allister
Production (English Edition): Ron Magin & Pete Fenlon
Playtesting (USA): Robert T. Carty, Jr., Coleman Charlton, 
Morgan Dontanville, Pete Fenlon, Kurt Fischer, Ron Magin, 
Dallas Pitt, Dave Platnick.
Special Thanks: Peter Bromley, Robert T. Carty, Sr., 
Marinda Darnell, Dan Decker, Jonathan Hart, Nick Johnson, 
Kim Marino, Marty McDonnell, Brad McWilliams, Jim Miles, 
Chuck Rice, Bridget Roznai, Larry Roznai, Loren Roznai, 
Brad Steffen, Guido Teuber, Bill Wordelmann, 
Elaine Wordelmann, Alex Yeager, Julie Yeager.
Copyright © 2012 Catan GmbH. “Catan,” “Catan Histories,” 
“The Settlers of Catan,” “Merchants of Europe,” and all associated 
marks are trademark properties of Catan GmbH. All rights 
reserved. Produced by Mayfair Games, Inc. under license from 
Catan GmbH. See www.catan.com.
You have purchased a game of the highest quality. However, if you 
find any components missing, please contact us for replacement 
pieces at: 
email: CustServ@mayfairgames.com
Merchants of Europe Parts, c/o Mayfair Games, Inc.
8060 St. Louis Avenue
Skokie, IL 60076	 	
 
WWW.MAYFAIRGAMES.COM
Catan MoE Rules_ENG_090512.indd 12