Y
our clan has established a modest foothold in the fair new land called Catan. It is now
time to strike out and settle new territory. But another prosperous clan has designs on
those same regions, and a race is on to see who will establish the dominant principality!
In the Catan Card Game, you control a growing realm engaged in a great struggle with
your neighbor. Building roads and establishing settlements, you try to tame a land rich in
beautiful but unexplored mountains, hills, forests, fields, and pastures. You must outmaneu-
ver your opponent and survive the challenges of nature in order to prevail.
Start by creating your prin-
cipality. Then embark on the
quest to settle new lands. 
Use your memory, speed,
cunning, and strength to
crush your rival. Guide your
settlers to victory by clever
trading and cunning develop-
ment. Acquire your resources
through wise card play and
the luck of the dice. Use gold
and combinations of
resources-grain, wool, ore,
brick, and lumber-to develop
your domain.
Expand your settlements into cities. Build a bathhouse for protection against the awful
plague. Establish garrisons to thwart the ever-present threat of brigands. Increase your
resource production with grain and wool mills. Improve trade by building a harbor 
or a counting house, or construct fleets to dominate commerce. Recruit knights to
defend your territory and compete on the tournament field. But beware! When
your opponent plays the Black Knight, even your strongest champion can fall!
Now is the time to lead your clan to victory. Your people look to you for
vision and insight. Be tough! Be firm! It is a glorious adventure! Have fun
with your challenge, knowing that the best strategy and a dash of luck
insure that you will be the undisputed ruler of Catan!
Would you like 
to learn how to play 
the “Catan Card Game” 
right away? Then visit 
www.profeasy.com.
— Prof. Easy

GAME COMPONENTS
• 1 Windmill Token
• 1 Knight Token 
• 1 Event Die
• 1 Production Die
• 120 cards — These cards
should be sorted according to the symbols on their backs.
Windmill
Knight
Event
Die
Production
Die
9 Red Shield Cards
(starting cards 
for player A)
9 Blue Shield Cards
(starting cards 
for player B)
11 Region Cards 
(additional regions 
7 Road Cards
(additional roads
5 Settlement Cards
(additional settlements
7 City Cards
(additional cities
10 Event Cards
(represent events that 
can occur in the game)
62 Expansion Cards
(include all cards with yellow, green, 
and red text fields on their fronts)

This section contains the Game Rules for the Catan Card Game. If you have 
questions about specific cards, you can refer to the Almanac that starts on page 19.
SETTING UP THE GAME
Before you can play, you must sort the cards by the symbols on their backs:
• 9 cards have a red coat-of-arms; these are the starting cards for one player.
• 9 cards have a blue coat-of-arms; these are the starting cards for the other player.
• 11 cards have a map; they are called Region Cards.
• 7 cards have a road; these are used to connect settlements.
• 5 cards have a settlement; each is worth 1 Victory Point.
• 7 cards have a city, which are worth 2 Victory Points each.
• 10 cards have a question mark; these are the Event Cards.
• The 62 cards that have no symbols on the back are called Expansion Cards.
These are the cards you will draw and play to expand your holdings.
Next you will prepare the Development and Expansion Cards. Shuffle the Event
Cards and place them face-down in the middle of the table. Then place the other four
stacks of Development Cards in a row between you and your opponent.
Shuffle the Expansion Cards together. The Expansion Cards include all the cards
with yellow, green, and red text fields. Divide this deck into five roughly equal 
“expansion stacks,” and place them next to the Development Cards. When you draw
cards during the game, you can draw them from any of these five stacks.
Expansion Cards (5 stacks)
Events
Roads
Cities
Settlements
Regions

Now there will be ten stacks of cards on the table: five stacks of Expansion Cards
(each with a mix of cards with yellow, green, and red text fields), four stacks of
Development Cards (roads, settlements, cities, and regions), and one stack of Event
Cards (with blue text fields).
Now you can build your principality! Choose one coat of arms
and take all nine cards with that symbol on the back. Give the
other set of nine starting cards to your opponent. You will
arrange your nine cards as shown here:
• Place the road card
with the Event Die
summary in the 
middle of your side
of the table.
• Place a settlement at
each end of the road.
• Arrange your six
Region Cards 
diagonally around 
the two settlements
(spaces 1 to 6 in the
illustration), in any order you choose. Since you will rotate the cards during the
game, you should leave a little bit of space around each Region Card.
Important: At the beginning of the game
you have 1 of each resource. So, you need to
arrange your Region Cards so that the side
showing 1 resource icon is closest to you.
Place the Event Die and the Production
Die nearby, along with the two wooden
tokens.
Roll the Production Die to determine
who will be the first player. The highest roller starts.
The first player chooses one stack of Expansion Cards, and chooses three cards
from that stack to begin the game with. The other player chooses a different stack and
also chooses three cards. After you choose your three starting cards, return the stack

to the center of the table
without shuffling.
Important: When you
choose your starting cards:
• You may not change the
order of the cards in the
stack!
• It is probably best to start
with cards that have green
text fields. Why? Because
“Action Cards” (with 
yellow text fields) can’t be
played until the combined
score of both players is at
least seven Victory Points
and “city expansions”
(with red text fields) can
only be played in a city.
GAME OVERVIEW
You control a 
principality with two 
settlements, connected by
a road. Scattered about the
settlements are six regions,
which supply you with six
different raw materials.
Each settlement is worth
one Victory Point, so you
already have two points to
start the
game! The
first player
to reach 
12 Victory
Points is the winner, so you only need to find 10 more points to win.
Your opponent’s principality!
The Resources 
(Cards which come into play later in the game)
Your principality!

In order to build up your principality, you will need raw materials. These resources
come from your Region Cards. Each turn a die roll will determine which regions 
produce. Each time
the number rolled
matches the num-
ber on one of your
regions, you
receive one of that
You don’t collect resources in the
form of cards or tokens. Instead you
use the Region Cards to keep track of
your supply. Each Region Card can
store from 0 to 3 resources. The actual
number of resources is always shown
on the side of the card closest to you.
When you gain a resource (such as through the
production roll or by trading), rotate the card to
show the next higher value. When you spend
resources (such as when you build), rotate the
card to show the next lower value.
If you have the right resources, you will be able
to build. This way you can expand or improve
your principality!
When you expand your principality, you make it
larger by adding new cards to the left or the
right. You will need to build a road before you
can add another settlement (worth 1 Victory
Point).
In order to build a road, settlement, or city you
need to pay the resources shown (on the back of
the card). Take the card from the development
stack and add it to your principality face-up.
Fields
Mountains
Pasture
Forest
Hills
Gold Field
Grain
Ore
Wool
Lumber
Brick
Gold
Region
Resource
Recording Resource Production
Collected Resources

Every settlement will have one Region Card at each (diagonal) corner (a total of
four Region Cards). So, when you build a new settlement, you also immediately draw
two new Region Cards and place them at the empty corners. These new regions can
increase your resource production (by adding more numbers that can be rolled each
turn).
When you improve your principality, you add new Buildings and Units. But you can
only make improvements if you have the right kind of cards in your hand! If you pay
the required resources, you can add a card to your principality. These improvements
are placed between your Region Cards above and below your settlements and cities.
If you don’t have the Buildings or Units you want, you will have to try to find them
in the expansion stacks. At the end of your turn, you will be able to draw cards into
your hand until you reach your hand limit. You can draw the cards randomly off the
top, or you can spend resources to go looking for the card you want.
New resources are always produced at the beginning of the turn. On your turn you
will roll both dice, and both players can receive production from regions that match
the number rolled. Also, an Event will occur, determined by the roll of the Event Die.
There are five different Events (see “The Event Die” on page 9).
Sawmill
Doubles the lumber production 
of the neighboring forests.
A Typical Partially Developed Principality

RULE SUMMARY
Once you have completed the setup described in “Setting Up the Game,” and both
players have chosen their three starting cards, you are ready to begin!
The Catan Card Game is played in turns. Both players alternate taking turns, 
starting with the “first player,” until one player wins by earning a total of 12 points!
Turn Sequence
There are five steps that you take in order on your turn:
1. Event: Roll both dice. The Event Die is resolved first! Resolve the effects of the
event first. The event affects both players. 
2. Production: Players receive production. All Region Cards in both principalities
that have a number that matches the Production Die roll produce resources. 
3. Take Actions: This is the heart of your turn. During this step you may take the
following actions as many times as you wish and in any order you choose:
• Build 
• Trade Resources
• Play Action Cards
4. Draw: When you are finished taking actions, trading, and building for the turn,
you have a chance to draw replacement cards into your hand. At the end of your
turn, you should always have a number of cards equal to your Hand Limit.
5. Pass the Dice: Your turn ends when you pass the dice to your opponent, who
can then begin his turn!
These steps are explained fully in “The Game In Detail” on page 9.
Special Victory Points
There are two wooden tokens included in the game: the
“Knight” Token and the “Windmill” Token. Each token is
worth one Victory Point to the player who controls it.
The Knight Token is awarded to the player who
has the “strongest” group of Knights. The
strength of each Knight is equal to the black number next to the iron fist.
If the Knights in your principality have a higher total strength than your
opponent’s Knights, you take the Knight Token and place it in front of you.
The Windmill Token is awarded to the player who has the “trade advantage.” Many
Buildings have a small windmill icon on them. These icons represent “Commerce
Windmill
Knight

Points.” If you have more Commerce Points than your opponent and you
have at least one city in your principality, you take the Windmill Token
and place it in front of you.
Important: These tokens can change ownership during the game! If your opponent
gains more Knight strength or Commerce Points than you, he takes the token (and the 1 Victory
Point) away! If there is a tie for strength or commerce, neither player controls the token and it
is returned to the center of the table. Remember that the Windmill Token has two requirements:
if you have more Commerce Points but no city, you cannot claim the token!
Hand Limits
There is a limit to the number of cards you can have in your hand at the end of
your turn. This is called your “hand limit.” At the beginning of the game, your hand
limit is always three cards. But there are some Buildings that increase your hand
limit. This will allow you to hold more cards in your hand, increasing your options!
THE GAME IN DETAIL
The Event Die
There are five different Events. They all affect both players:
Tournament (Knight’s Head)
If the tournament is rolled, look at all the Knights in your principality.
Add up the Tournament Points (the red number next to the Knight’s
head) for all of your Knights. If you have a higher total tournament score
than your opponent, you receive any one resource of your choice (turn the matching
Region Card) in addition to your normal production. If there is a tie for Tournament
Points, neither player receives the reward.
Trade Advantage (Windmill)
If you have the Windmill Token when the trade advantage is rolled, you
may take any 1 resource of your choice from your opponent (each player
rotates the appropriate Region Card). This is in addition to your normal
production. If neither player holds the Windmill Token, no one gets the bonus.
Year of Plenty (Sun)
During a Year of Plenty, both players receive a bonus! Choose any one
resource (rotate the matching region) as extra production that turn.

Brigand Attack (Club)
The club result means that brigands attack both players. Count the total
number of resources on all of your Region Cards. If you have more than
seven resources total, you must forfeit all the ore and wool from all your
regions! Rotate all your pasture and mountains Region Cards to show zero resources.
It is possible that both players will lose resources to the brigands!
There are no brigand attacks during the first two turns of the game. If the club is
rolled during these turns, it is ignored. Do not re-roll the Event Die, there is simply
no event that turn. Starting with the first player’s third turn, the Brigand Attack event
is resolved normally.
Important: If you have a “Garrison” (a type of Expansion Card), you can “protect” some of
your resources. When you count your resources to see if you lose resources, do not count
resources on the two regions next to your Garrison. If you still have more than seven resources,
you still lose all your wool and ore, even from regions “protected” by the Garrison.
Event Card (Question Mark)
The question mark means that a special event occurs. Turn over the top
card on the event deck (with the blue text fields) and read it aloud. Both
players must follow the instructions on the Event Card immediately. Then
the Event Card is returned to the bottom of the event deck face-down.
Descriptions of each Event Card can be found in the Almanac.
Important: If an Event Card causes you to draw cards above your hand limit, you must 
discard enough cards (of your choice) to reach your hand limit again.
The Production Die
The Production Die (the normal spotted
die) determines your resource production
every turn. The number rolled applies to
both players. All regions with a number
that matches the roll provide resources.
Each productive region is turned to show
the next higher number of resources.
Example: Susan rolls a “2.” She receives 
1 grain, and Carol receives 1 ore. Each 
player turns her Region Card to the next 
higher value.
Carol’s Mountains Region
Susan’s Fields Region

Each Region Card can hold 0, 1, 2, or 3
resources. No region may ever store more
than three resources. If you would nor-
mally produce a fourth resource in a
region that is already full, that resource is
lost instead.
Example: Jack has 2 mountains regions in
his principality, one with the number “3” and
one with a “2.” The “3” mountains region
already has 3 ore showing, and the “2”
mountains region has 1. If a “3” is rolled on
the Production Die, Jack would not get any
ore because the “3” mountains region is
already full! He cannot transfer the ore to the other mountains region.
Take Actions
There are three types of actions you can take during the third step of your turn:
Building
In order to expand and improve your principality, you will need to add cards. In
order to add a card to your principality, you will need to pay the resources showing
on that card. To pay resources, just rotate the matching Region Card to show your
reduced supply. There are a number of things you can build:
Roads
If you want to add more settlements to your principality you will
need to build roads first. It costs three resources to build a road: 
2 brick and 1 lumber. If all seven road cards have already been built,
you will not be able to build any more roads!
When you build a road, pay the resources
required and take a road card from the stack.
Place the road face-up horizontally next to one
of your settlements or cities. Roads are always
played to the left or right of a settlement or city,
never above or below. You may not build two
roads next to each other.
This mountains region gets 1 ore on a roll of 2. 
This mountains region is full.

Example: At the beginning of the game, Amanda had 6 resources. On her turn, she rolled a “6”
and received 1 brick (she turns her hills region to show 2 bricks). Now she wants to build a
road. So, she pays both her bricks and 1 lumber, and takes a road card from the stack, placing
it next to her right hand settlement.
Settlements
Each settlement you build earns you one Victory Point. A new 
settlement costs four resources: one each of wool, lumber, brick, 
and grain. Settlements must always be connected to a road you have
already built, never next to another settlement or city. If there are no
settlement cards left in the stack, then you may not build any more settlements.
When you build a settlement, pay the resources
required and take a settlement card from the
stack. Place the card face-up next to one of your
roads.
Each settlement has two “building sites” 
where you can play Regional Expansions (cards
with green text fields). See “Building Sites” on
page 13.
Region Cards (Free with a new settlement)
You will always have four
Region Cards placed diagonally
next to each settlement. When you build a new settlement, you will
need to fill the missing spaces right away. Draw the top Region Card
and place it near the new settlement, either above or below. Then
draw the next Region Card and place it in the other empty space.
Important: New Region Cards are always placed with the side showing zero resources!
“Planned Development”: If you play a “Scout” card when you build
a new settlement, you get to choose your Region Cards! Search
through the stack of Region Cards and pick the two you want, putting
them in their places. Some Buildings provide extra advantages—such
as doubling resource production, etc.—when built adjacent to 
specific types of regions.
Scout
Play this card when building a settlement. Choose 
2 Region Cards of your choice from the region stack.
Reshuffle the region stack.

Cities
You can upgrade a settlement to a city. This will earn you another
Victory Point. A city costs five resources: 3 ore and 2 grain. There are
only seven cities available in the game. 
When you build a city, pay the resources required and take a city
card from the stack. Place the card face-up on top of one of your settlements 
(the settlement below the city no longer counts for any purpose!). The city is 
worth two Victory Points. In addition, a city has twice as many “building sites” 
as a settlement (four instead of two). 
Expansion Cards
Before the game, you draw a hand of three Expansion Cards. During the game, you
can play Expansion Cards directly from your hand. At the end of your turn, you will
draw replacement cards from the expansion stacks. There are three different kinds of
Expansion Cards:
• Action Cards
• Region Expansion Cards
• City Expansion Cards
Action Cards have a yellow text field. The last two types of cards are
used to build and improve your principality. They have green or red 
text fields.
Building Sites
Expansion Cards that you add to your principality must
be placed on a “building site.” Each settlement has two
building sites: one above and one below. Building sites in
a settlement can only be used for the green region expan-
sions.
Each city has four building sites: two above and two
below. City building sites can be used for green region
expansions or red city expansions.
Important: Both building sites above a city, and both sites
below, are equal. Cards built on sites 1 or 2 have the exact same
effect on neighboring cards.

Region Expansions
Region expansions have a green text field. If you want to play one of
these cards, simply pay the resource cost (turn the matching regions)
and play the card face-up in your principality. Region expansions can
only be played on an empty building site in a settlement or city. There
are two types of region expansions: Units (Knights and Fleets) and
Buildings (such as a Garrison, Sawmill, or Smithy).
Example: Brad has decided to build an “Abbey” on his turn and has paid the
resources shown on the card (lumber, ore and brick). Now he puts the card in
an empty building site above his right-hand settlement. The Abbey will increase
his hand limit by one card, so he can hold four cards at the end of his turn.
Some expansions only help you if you build them next to a specific type of Region
Card. They have no affect on other kinds of regions. For example, a Grain Mill only
doubles the production of a fields region if it is built next to it.
City Expansions
City expansions have a red text field. If you
want to play one of these cards, simply pay the
resource cost (turn the matching regions) and
play the card face-up in your principality. City
expansions can only be played on an empty
building site in a city. All city expansions are
Buildings. City expansions will often give you
Victory Points or Commerce Points (to earn the
Windmill Token).
Important: You cannot play city expansions next to
a settlement!
Example: Ellen wants to build a Bath House. She
pays the resources shown on the card, and places it in
the top empty building site in her city (above the
Aqueduct). The Bath House is worth 1 Victory Point,
and it protects all 4 regions around the city ( forest,
mountains, pasture, fields) from the “Plague” Event
Card effects (which would make them lose resources).
On the second building site she has played a
“Garrison,” which protects the two adjacent regions from the Brigand Attack Event. Her forest
and mountains regions are not counted when the club is rolled on the Event Die.
Abbey
Gotz Ironfist
Inventor of the all
around defense. No grass
grows in his wake.
Bath House
Protects all 4 regions bordering the 
city from the effects of the Plague.

Hint: If you want to save space, you can overlap the cards you build in a city, as long as the
text field can still be seen.
You may find that an Expansion Card you have in your principality is no longer use-
ful to you. You might want to use that space for a new card instead. During your turn,
you may discard any region or city expansion in your principality. Place the discarded
building or unit out of play, in the same discard pile where Action Cards are placed
(See page 16). You do not receive any resources for the discarded Expansion Card.
Special Victory Points
When you build, it can affect control of the two wooden tokens. Each is
worth one Victory Point, but they can change hands during the game!
Commerce Points
You can earn the Windmill Token if you fulfill two requirements:
1. You must have at least one city in your principality.
2. You must have more Commerce Points than your opponent.
If there is a tie for Commerce Points, or if the player who has the most doesn’t 
have a city, the Windmill Token is placed back in the middle.
Example: Ziggy has already built a city. Now he builds the city
expansion card “Marketplace” from his hand, paying 1 grain and 
1 wool and placing it face-up below his city.
Now he has 2 Commerce Points. Since his opponent has no 
Commerce Points, Ziggy takes the Windmill Token, which is worth 
1 Victory Point.
Strength Points
Only region expansions with Knights have Strength Points. The strength
of a Knight is equal to the black number next to the iron glove. 
If you have the highest total of Strength Points, you are awarded the
Knight Token. If your opponent builds a Knight giving him a higher total,
he takes the token away. If you are tied, the token returns to
the middle. 
Example: Faith is holding the Knight Card “Conrad the Swift” in her
hand. She pays the required resources (1 ore and 1 grain), and adds
him to one of her settlements.
Konrad the Quick has a strength of 2. Since her opponent has no
Knights, Faith now has the stronger force of Knights; so she takes the
Knight Token-which is worth 1 Victory Point.
Marketplace
Fresh vegetables from the countryside.

Trading
Sometimes, the production die just won’t give you the resources you need.
Fortunately you can trade!
There are two ways you can trade resources:
Trade with your Opponent
You may offer to trade resources with your opponent. The terms of the exchanges
may be negotiated freely. In other words, both players can choose what resources
they are willing to pay. If you can come to an agreement, the resources are exchanged
and the matching regions are turned.
Trade with Foreign Merchants
You can also exchange resources by yourself (some players call this “trading with
the bank”). You can pay three of the same resource (by rotating the matching
regions) to get one resource of your choice. You can improve this exchange rate by
building a “Trade Fleet.” Each Trade Fleet allows you exchange a specific type of
resource at a 2:1 rate.
The resources you exchange do not have to come from the same Region Card. 
If you have several of the same type of region, you choose which regions to take
resources from and which to add them to.
Playing Action Cards
In the expansion stacks, there are a number of “Action Cards.” These cards have a
yellow text field.
You hold Action Cards in your hand until you choose to play them. You do not have
to pay any resources to play an Action Card. You cannot play any Action Cards until
the total score of both players combined is at least seven Victory Points.
Exception: No matter how many Victory Points the players have, you can always play a Scout
card when you build a new settlement.
You can play any number of Action Cards during your turn. Simply play the card
face-up and follow the instructions on the card. Unless the card says otherwise, you
can only play Action Cards after the dice have been resolved for the turn. After the
card is played, remove it from the game (place it in a “discard pile”).
Note: There are two cards that can be played to counter Action Cards played by your opponent:
the “Bishop” and the “Herb Woman.” You can play these cards during your opponent’s turn in
reaction to an Action Card he plays.

Sometimes an Action Card will result in you adding cards to your hand. If it is your
turn, you don’t have to discard these extra cards until you get to step four of your
turn, when you check your hand limit and draw cards. But, if it is not your turn 
when one of these Action Cards is played, you will have to discard down to your 
hand limit immediately. These discards are placed face-down under any expansion
stack of your choice.
Check Hand Limit and Draw Replacement Cards
When you are done taking actions on your turn, you will need to check your 
current hand size. There is always a limit to the maximum number of cards you can
have in your hand at the end of your turn. Normally, this limit is three cards. But,
there are some Buildings that allow you to increase your hand limit (such as the
“Abbey” or the “Library”). Each of these Buildings allows you hold an additional 
card in your hand.
If you have fewer cards in hand than your hand limit, you now draw enough 
cards to fill your hand. Each time you draw a card, you have two options of how 
you draw:
1. Random Draw: You can always draw the top card unseen from any of the five
expansion stacks and add it to your hand.
2. Search a Stack: You can instead choose to search one of the expansion stacks
for a card you want. First you must pay any two resources of your choice. Then
select one stack. Without changing the order of the cards, you can examine the
entire stack and choose any one card to add to your hand. The remaining cards
are returned to their places face-down.
Important: You must not change the order of the cards when you search a stack! Do not 
shuffle the cards after you look at them.
If you need to draw multiple cards, you may choose one of these two options for
each card you draw, in any order you choose.
Example: Francis has played all his cards, so he needs to draw three replacements. First he
pays two resources so he can search the first expansion stack and draw one card of his choice.
Then he pays two more resources to search a second stack and picks one card. Finally he draws
his third card for free by taking the top card from the first stack.
If you have a number of cards in hand equal to or greater than your hand limit, you
may choose to exchange one card. First you must discard enough cards to bring your
hand size down to your limit, by placing them face-down beneath any expansion stack

(or stacks) you choose. Then, if you wish, you may choose one more card to discard
to the bottom of a stack and draw a new card from the same stack. As above, you may
either take the top card for free or you can pay two resources of any type to search
the stack and take any card there.
Pass the Dice
Once you have drawn and/or discarded cards, your turn is over. You may not play
your newly acquired card right away. Now your turn is over, so you must pass the dice
to your opponent. He begins his turn by rolling the dice.
End of the Game
The game ends as soon as either player has reached 12 Victory Points on his
turn. If you are this player, you are the winner!
Tip: New players may want to play to a lower Victory Point total for their first few games. This
will make the game play in a shorter time, and will give you a chance to become familiar with
all the different cards. 

Alchemist
Play this card before your die roll. 
Choose the result of the Production Die roll.
ACTION — NEUTRAL
Arsonist
Roll! On a 1-5, your opponent must return a Building of 
your choice to his hand. If you roll a 6, you must return a
Building of his choice to your hand. Counter Card: Bishop.
The Card Almanac contains detailed descriptions of all the cards. These are not the
Game Rules! You don’t need to read the whole Almanac before your first game, you
can refer to it if questions come up during play. Once you have an idea of how the
game is played, you may want to familiarize yourself with the different types of cards.
The entries below are arranged alphabetically within each of the 4 card categories:
• Action Cards (Yellow Text Fields);
• Event Cards (Blue Text Fields);
• Region Expansion Cards (Green Text Fields); and
• City Expansion Cards (Red Text Fields).
Expansion Cards that bear the Shield of Catan on the lower left cor-
ner are “counter cards” and serve to protect you.
ACTION CARDS (YELLOW TEXT FIELDS)
When you play an Action Card, place it on the discard pile. Some Action Cards cause you to draw
cards into your hand. If you exceed your hand limit when it is not your turn, you must immediately 
discard the excess cards to the bottom of the expansion stack of your choice.
Alchemist (Action-Neutral; 2 in deck)
Gives you control of the Production Die roll.
You play this card before you roll the dice. Instead of rolling the
Production Die, you pick a number and place the die on the table
with your chosen face showing.
The results apply to both players.
After adjusting the Production Die, roll the Event Die normally.
Remember that the Event Die is resolved first!
Arsonist (Action-Attack; 2 in deck)
You can use this attack card to destroy one of your opponent’s
Buildings.
Counter Card: Bishop
You can play the Arsonist even if you have no Buildings of your
own. If you have no Buildings and you roll a “6,” the Arsonist has
no effect. 
The hand limit applies when the victim takes back a destroyed
Building Card.
Note: Fleets and Knights are not Buildings. Only cards marked as
Buildings can be attacked with this card.

Bishop
Play against Brigands or the Arsonist. The attacker 
loses on a roll of 3, 4, 5 or 6. This card must be 
played before the attacker’s die roll.
Black Knight
Roll! On a 1-5, your opponent must return a Knight of your
choice to his hand. Roll a 6, and you must return a Knight of
his choice to your hand. Counter Card: Herb Woman.
Brigands
Roll! On a 1-5, take 2 resources of your choice from 
your opponent. Roll a 6, and your opponent takes 
2 resources of his choice from you. Counter Card: Bishop.
Caravan
Exchange your resources with the caravan! 
Trade in 2 resources of your choice 
for 2 others of your choice. 
ACTION — NEUTRAL
Bishop (Action-Defense; 2 in deck)
You can use this card to protect yourself from the Arsonist or
Brigands.
The attacker, instead of being affected only on a “6,” is now
affected on a roll of a 3, 4, 5, or 6. In other words, the Arsonist’s or
Brigand’s chances of victory are now only 33%.
This card must be played before the attacker makes his die roll.
The Black Knight (Action-Attack; 3 in deck)
You can use this attack card to eliminate one of your opponent’s
Knights.
Counter Card: Herb Woman
You can play the Black Knight even if you have no Knights of your
own. If you have no Knights and you roll a “6,” the Black Knight has
no effect.
The hand limit applies when the victim takes back an eliminated
Knight Card.
Brigands (Action-Attack; 1 in deck)
You can use this card to steal resources from your opponent.
Counter Card: Bishop
If your opponent only has one resource, you only steal one
You can only steal resources that you can add to your matching
Region Cards (i.e., you must be able to rotate a Region Card to the
next higher value).
Caravan (Action-Neutral; 1 in deck)
You can exchange your own resources at a favored rate.
Choose up to two of your resources (they do not have to be the
same) and exchange them for an equal number of other resources.
Example: You can reduce the lumber held in a forest from 3 to 1,
and increase the resources of 1 mountains and 1 fields by 1 each.

Herb Woman (Action-Defense; 2 in deck)
You can use this card to protect yourself from the Black Knight.
The attacker, instead of being affected only on a “6,” is now
affected on a roll of a 3, 4, 5, or 6. In other words, the Black
Knight’s chances of victory are now only 33%.
This card must be played before the attacker makes his die roll.
Herb Woman
Play against the Black Knight. The attacker loses on 
a roll of a 3, 4, 5, or 6. This card must be played 
before the attacker’s die roll.
Merchant
Take 2 resources of your choice from 
your opponent and give them 1 resource 
of your choice.
Scout
Play this card when building a settlement. Choose 
2 Region Cards of your choice from the region stack.
Reshuffle the region stack.
Spy
Search your opponent's hand and select any 1 Unit 
or Action Card. You may play this card immediately 
or add the card to your hand.
Merchant (Action-Attack; 2 in deck)
You can force your opponent to make a 2 for 1 resource trade.
You take one or two resources of your choice from your 
opponent. You then give your opponent one resource of your 
choice (even a resource you just took from your opponent).
This swap is only permitted with available resources. In addition,
you must have room on your Region Cards for your additional
resources.
Example: If your forest is already holding three lumber, then you
cannot trade for additional lumber.
Scout (Action-Defense; 2 in deck)
This card enables you to expand a settlement with the Region
Cards of your choice. You must play this card immediately after you
build a settlement. You can then look through the Region Card deck
and select two cards. You must then reshuffle the deck, placing the
cards face-down on the table.
You may always play this card anytime you build a new settlement.
You may even play this card if the total combined score of both 
players is less than seven Victory Points.
Spy (Action-Attack; 3 in deck)
You can use this attack card to attempt to steal a card from your
opponent’s hand. When you play this card, your opponent must
show you all of the cards in his hand. If he has any Unit cards or
Action cards in his hand, you must take one of them. If you take a
card, you must add it to your hand or play it immediately, paying
any required costs normally.
Example: You can play a Spy and, after examining your opponent’s
cards, steal his Spy. You can then play the stolen Spy on your oppo-
nent, stealing a second card (which is also immediately playable).
You cannot play a Spy if your opponent has no cards in his hand. 

EVENT CARDS (BLUE TEXT FIELDS)
Event Cards are never drawn into your hand. When you roll the
question mark on the Event Die, draw the top card and follow the
instructions. Event Cards affect both players. Then place the card
face-down at the bottom of the deck.
Civil War
Each player must return a Knight, Cannon, or 
Fleet Card to his hand. His opponent chooses the card.
Counter Card: Church.
Conflict
The player controlling the Knight Token selects 
2 cards from his opponent's hand and returns them 
to the bottom of an expansion stack of his choice.
Master Builder
Each player can trade in 1 card from his hand 
for a new 1 of his choice from any 1 
expansion stack.
Civil War (Event; 1 in deck)
This Event destroys Units in both principalities. Each player must
return one Knight or Fleet Card of his choice to his hand. The player
who rolled the Event chooses first.
If you have no Knights of Fleets, this Event has no effect on you.
The hand limit applies when taking back these cards.
Conflict (Event; 1 in deck)
If you have the Knight Token, you examine your opponent’s hand.
Choose any two cards and discard them face-down to the bottom of
any one expansion stack of your choice.
Your opponent may not replenish his hand until the end of his
next turn.
If neither player controls the Knight Token, this Event has no
effect.
Master Builder (Event; 1 in deck)
You can trade in one card from your hand in exchange for a card
from any expansion stack on the table. This card applies to both
players.
When you roll the Event, you choose an expansion stack first.
Your opponent must then choose a different stack.
Examine your chosen stack. You may choose any one card from
that stack. You may also choose not to exchange any cards. Place
your discarded card at the bottom of the stack and return it to the
table face-down. You may play the new card on the same turn you
drew it.
You may not change the order of the cards in the stack.

Plague (Event; 2 in deck)
Applies to both players and only affects Cities.
All four regions adjacent to each city lose one resource (if they
have any). A region that is adjacent to two Cities still loses only one
Counter Cards: Bath House, Aqueduct
Plague
Every region bordering a city or Metropolis 
loses 1 resource. 
Counter Cards: Bath House and Aqueduct.
Productive Year
Every region that borders on a Garrison
gets 1 extra resource.
Progress
Each player collects an extra resource for each 
Abbey, Library, and University in his principality.
Year End
Reshuffle the Event deck.
Productive Year (Event; 2 in deck)
Both players receive bonus production. Each region that borders
on a Garrison produces one extra resource. Regions that border on
two Garrisons produce two extra resources.
A region that is already holding three resources produces no
additional resources.
Progress (Event; 2 in deck)
Both players receive bonus production. Choose one resource for
each Abbey, Library and University in your principality. (The
University card is part of the ”Science & Progress” deck in The
Catan Card Game Expansion Set).
Example: You have two Abbeys and one Library in your principality
so you get three extra resources. Rotate the cards of your choice.
Year End (Event; 1 in deck)
Before you reshuffle the event deck, return the Year End card to
the stack.

REGIONAL EXPANSIONS (GREEN TEXT FIELDS)
You can play Regional Expansions on building sites in settlements
or cities.
Abbey
Smithy
Each Knight in your principality gets 
1 additional Strength Point.
Abbey (Building; 2 in deck)
When you have an Abbey in your principality, your hand limit is
increased by one card (your maximum hand size becomes four
cards). If you have two Abbeys, your hand limit is increased by two
(up to five cards). 
The increased hand limit for an Abbey is added to any increases
you receive from other cards, such as a Library.
If you lose the Abbey, you must immediately discard down to your
hand limit, placing the discards face-down under any expansion
stack.
Garrison (Building; 3 in deck)
Counter card against Brigand Attack
A Garrison helps protect you from losing resources to a Brigand
Attack. Do not count resources on the two adjacent regions when
you count your total resources. If you still have more than seven
unprotected (i.e., not next to a Garrison) resources, you still lose
all your ore and wool, even if they are on mountains or pasture
regions next to a Garrison.
Smithy (Building; 1 in deck)
Raises the Strength Points of each Knight in your principality by
one.
Example: If you have two Knights in your principality (strengths 
2 and 3 respectively) and you build a Smithy, your Knights’ total
Strength Points increase to 7.

Knights (Units; 1 each in deck—9 total)
Each Knight has two abilities, which are depicted by a symbol and 
a number.
The iron glove represents strength. A black number indicates the Knight’s 
specific strength rating. A Knight with the black numeral “3” beside the
iron glove has a strength of 3. He assists you in your struggle for the Knight Token.
The Knight’s head represents his tournament skill. A red number indicates the Knight’s specific 
tournament rating. A Knight with the red numeral “2” beside the helmet has 2 Tournament Points. 
He assists you when the tournament is rolled on the Event Die.
Hagen the Sinister
Wild and unstable.
Pippin the Short
A dangerous knight 
to overlook.
Falk the Fair
He does battle only for
noble ladies. More style
than substance.
Karl the Strong
Woe when he is 
unleashed.
Siegfried Lackland
Brave, noble and poor.
Gotz Ironfist
Inventor of the all
around defense. No grass
grows in his wake.
Otto the 
Berserker
Catan’s one-man army.
Walter 
the Recreant
Feared by friend and foe.

Production Buildings: 
Brick Factory, Foundry, Grain Mill, Sawmill, Woolen Mill 
(Buildings; 1 each in deck—5 total)
Each of these Buildings increases the production of one type of resource. The resource is shown on
the card. A Grain Mill increases grain production, a Sawmill increases lumber production, a Brick
Factory increases brick production, a Foundry increases ore production, and a Woolen Mill increases
wool production.
Only regions next to the Building increase production.
Example: A Grain Mill borders two fields regions. If you roll one of these region’s numbers, it produces
two grain instead of only one.
If the region already has two resources on it, it only produces one resource. No region can hold
more than three resources.
If one of these Buildings is built in a city, it does not matter if it is placed on the top or bottom 
building site. It still affects both adjacent regions.
Foundry
Doubles the ore production of 
the neighboring mountains.
Woolen Mill
Doubles the wool production 
from the neighboring pastures. 2X
Brick Factory
Doubles the brick production 
from the neighboring hills. 2X
Sawmill
Doubles the lumber production 
of the neighboring forests.
Grain Mill
Doubles the grain production 
from the neighboring fields. 2X

Trade Fleets: 
Brick Fleet, Gold Fleet, Grain Fleet, Lumber Fleet, Ore Fleet, Wool Fleet
(Units; 1 each in deck—6 total)
Trade Fleets allow you to trade with “foreign merchants” at a better rate. Each Fleet allows you to
trade two of the pictured resource for one other resource. You may make this trade during your turn
as many times as you wish, as long as you have the resources to trade.
The Trade Fleet does not have to be next to the Region Card(s) you trade with.
Example: If you have a Wool Fleet, you can trade wool at a ratio of 2:1 even if the Fleet Card is placed
between two mountains regions.
The resources you trade in do not have to come from the same Region Card. 
You may have more than one of a specific Fleet in your principality, but the second Fleet does not
enhance your trading ability.
Gold Fleet
You may trade 2 gold 
Ore Fleet
You may trade 2 ore for 
Brick Fleet
You may trade 2 brick for 
Lumber Fleet
You may trade 2 lumber 
Grain Fleet
You may trade 2 grain for 
Wool Fleet
You may trade 2 wool 

CITY EXPANSIONS (RED TEXT FIELDS)
You can only play city expansions on building sites in cities.
Bath House
Protects all 4 regions bordering the 
city from the effects of the Plague.
Church
Protects all Knights, Cannons, and
Trade Fleets in this city from the 
effects of Civil War.
Aqueduct (Building; 2 in deck)
Counter Card against Plague
All regions in your principality are immune to the effects of the
Plague. When the Plague card is drawn, none of the regions in your
principality lose resources.
Bath House (Building; 2 in deck)
Counter Card against Plague
All four Region Cards surrounding this city are immune to the
effects of the Plague. None of these regions lose resources when the
Plague card is drawn.
Note: This card applies to regions between two cities, even if only
one of the cities contains a Bath House.
Church (Building; 2 in deck)
Counter Card against Civil War
All Knights and Fleets in a city containing a Church are immune to
the effects of Civil War.

The Colossus Of Catan (Building; 1 in deck)
The only purpose of this Building is glory! It is worth two 
Victory Points.
The Colossus of Catan 
Honor and fame for the builder.
Counting House
Money talks.
Harbor
Each Trade Fleet you own is worth 
1 additional Commerce Point.
Library
Counting House (Building; 1 in deck)
Harbor (Building; 1 in deck)
Increases the Commerce Points from each of your Trade Fleets by
one. It is also worth one Commerce Point.
Example: You have three Trade Fleets and you build a Harbor. Now
your Fleets give you 6 Commerce Points (up from 3).
Library (Building; 2 in deck)
When you have a Library in your principality, your hand limit is
increased by one card (your maximum hand size becomes four
cards). If you have two Libraries, your hand limit is increased by
two (up to five cards). 
The increased hand limit for a Library is added to any increases
you receive from other cards, such as an Abbey.
If you lose the Library, you must immediately discard down 
to your hand limit, placing the discards face-down under any 
expansion stack.

Marketplace (Building; 1 in deck)
Merchant Guild
It is better to receive than to give.
Mint
You may trade 1 gold for 
1:1
Town Hall
Reduces the cost of selecting a card
of your choice, from any expansion stack,
by 1 resource.
-1
Merchant Guild (Building; 1 in deck)
Mint (Building; 1 in deck)
Improves your gold exchange rate. It is also worth one 
Commerce Point.
You can trade gold for resources at a 1:1 ratio (i.e., 1 gold for 
1 resource of your choice).
You may make this trade during your turn as many times as you
wish, as long as you have the resources to trade.
Town Hall (Building; 2 in deck)
Reduces your cost to search an expansion stack. It is also worth
one Victory Point.
In the fourth step of your turn, when you draw replacement cards,
you only have to pay one resource of your choice if you want to
search a stack and pick the card you draw.
If you have more than one Town Hall, there is no further 
reduction in cost. You still must pay one resource to search a stack.
Marketplace
Fresh vegetables from the countryside.

CREDITS
Designed by Klaus Teuber.
Box and Cover Artwork by Stephen Graham Walsh.
Card Artwork by Franz Vohwinkel.
Composition and Production 
by Matt Schwabel of Forge Interactive, LLC
Graphic Design:
Pete Fenlon, Jason Hawkins, Matt Schwabel, Franz Vohwinkel.
Translation of German Rules:
Heike Kubasch.
English-language Rules Development:
Robert T. Carty, Jr., Coleman Charlton, Pete Fenlon, Fritz Gruber, Heike Kubasch, 
William Niebling, Will Niebling, Lou Rexing, Joe Roznai, Larry Roznai, Guido Teuber, 
Klaus Teuber, Bill Wordelmann, Elaine Wordelmann, Alex Yeager.
English-language Playtesting:
Peter Bromley, Lee Calamaio, Micki Niebling, David Platnick, Candace Rexing, 
Bridget Roznai, Seth Schwartz, Tom Smith, Mike Strack.
Special Contributions:
Darwin Bromley, Peter Bromley, Keywood Cheeves, Robin Elliott, Emily Johnson, 
Nick Johnson, Olivia Johnston, Schar Niebling, Craig O’Brien, Bennie Teuber, Claudia Teuber, 
Emily Teuber, Leif Teuber, Liam Teuber, Chris Vande Voort, Jill H. Walsh.
© 1998, 2005 Mayfair Games, Inc. & Catan GmbH. 
“The Settlers of Catan” and “Catan Card Game” are trademarks of Mayfair Games & Catam GmbH. 
“Catan” is a trademark of Catan GmbH. All rights reserved.
The Catan Card Game™was originally published in German by 
Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. as Die Siedler von Catan Kartenspiel.™
Visit The Settlers of Catan™online at: http://www.klausteuber.com and http://www.catanonline.com.
English- and German-language editions of The Settlers of Catan boardgame, its expansions, 
and its supplements, and all other products in this special series are available from 
Mayfair Games, Inc., Skokie, IL USA. 
Visit the Mayfair Games website at: http://www.mayfairgames.com. 

TURN SEQUENCE
After the first player begins, players alternate turns. At the start of your turn, you
roll the Event and Production Dice (simultaneously). You then take the following
actions in the order listed below:
1. Event: The Event Die is resolved first! Resolve the effects of the event first. 
The event affects both players. 
2. Production: Now both players receive 
production. All Region Cards in both 
principalities that have a number that 
matches the Production Die roll produce 
one resource. 
3. Take Actions: This is the heart of your turn.
During this step, you may take the following
actions as many times as you wish and in any
order you choose:
• Build 
• Trade Resources
• Play Action Cards
4. Draw: When you are finished taking actions,
trading, and building for the turn, you have a
chance to draw replacement cards into your
hand. At the end of your turn, you should
always have a number of cards equal to your Hand Limit.
5. Pass the Dice: Your turn ends when you pass the dice to your opponent, 
who can then begin his turn!
Fields
Mountains
Pasture
Forest
Hills
Gold Field
Grain
Ore
Wool
Lumber
Brick
Gold
Region
Resource