Klaus Teuber’s
& Almanac
 Almanac

Dear Settlers,
To make it as easy as possible for you to start playing CATAN®, we use an award-winning rules system, which consists 
of 3 parts. First, if you do not know how to play CATAN, please read the Game Overview on page 20 (the back cover). 
Next, read the Game Rules for 3-4 players on pages 2-6 (red headers) and start to play the game. If you want to play 
with 5-6 players, you will need to read the additional rules on pages 6-7. If you have questions during the game, 
consult the CATAN Almanac on pages 10-19 (gold headers). The rules for the Helpers of CATAN™ scenario are on 
pages 8-9. Now you are ready for your first adventure on Catan. Have fun settling this new land together!
— Klaus Teuber
klausteuber.com
The first 5 pages of this booklet contain all the important 
information that you need to play with 3-4 players. We suggest 
this for your first game. However, if you want to play with 5-6 
players, please read the additional rules on pages 6-7.
If you need more information during the game, you can look 
up keywords (marked Y) in the “Almanac,” which follows 
these rules.
You should only use the Helpers of CATAN once you are 
familiar with all of the basic rules of CATAN.
Game Components
Constructing The Island
The frame pieces hold the board together and prevent 
the pieces from moving after the board is in place. Before 
building the island, assemble the frame by matching the 
numbers at the ends of the frame pieces together (i.e., 1-1, 
2-2, etc.).
You can then construct the island of Catan using the 19 
terrain hexes as shown on page 3.
Starting Set-up for Beginners
You can play the game CATAN on a variable game board. 
For your first game, however, we suggest that you use the 
“Starting Set-up for Beginners Y.” (See Illus. A on page 3.) 
This set-up is well-balanced for all players.
Before your first game, you must remove the die-cut 
components from the cardboard holders. Carefully punch 
out and separate the pieces. When punching tiles out of the 
die-cut sheets, always push the tiles through from the front, 
“cut” side (pushing from the back may cause the tiles to rip).
Lay out the map as specified in Illustration A (or on the 
back of this booklet).
First, assemble the frame as shown. Second, create Catan 
by placing the 19 terrain hexes on the table—again as 
shown. Third, place the circular number tokens on top of 
the designated terrain hexes. Finally, place your settlements 
and roads.
Africa is spring and we walk five paths toward the sun
19 terrain hexes
6 sea frames
turn, and you cannot play a development card 
on the turn it’s built.
4 building costs 
20 settlements 
(5 per player)
16 cities 
(4 per player)
60 roads 
(15 per player)
2 special cards 
“Longest Road” & 
“Largest Army”
95 resource 
25 development 
1 robber
9 harbor 
markers
2 dice
18 number 
tokens
2 card trays

Starting Set-up for Experienced Players
It is more fun to play with a variable game board—with the 
game board laid out randomly. The board changes each game. 
If you would like to use the variable set-up, you can find the 
guidelines in the Almanac under Set-up, Variable Y. Also look 
for useful tips under Set-up Phase Y and Tactics Y.
Setting Up the Game
Select a color and take your 5 settlements, 4 cities, and 
15 roads (no more and no less!). Place your 2 roads and 
your 2 settlements on the game board. Place your remaining 
settlements, roads, and cities down in front of you.
Note: If you are playing a 3-player game, nobody plays the 
red position indicated on the starting map.
Take your color’s building costs card. (See Illustration B.)
Place the special cards “Longest Road” and “Largest Army” 
beside the game board along with the 2 dice.
Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks. Put them face up into 
the card trays beside the 
game board. Shuffle the 
development cards and 
place them face down into 
the card trays.
You receive resources Y 
for each terrain hex around 
your starting settlement 
marked with a white star H 
(see Illustration A). Take 
the appropriate resource 
cards from their stacks.
Illustration A
Starting Map 
for Beginners
 To make it as easy as possible 
for you to get started with 
CATAN, we use an award- 
winning rules system, which 
consists of 3 parts—the 
Overview, the Game 
Rules, and 
the Almanac.
 If you’ve never 
played CATAN, 
please read the 
game Overview 
first—it’s on the 
back cover of this 
booklet. Next, read the 
Game Rules and start 
to play. And finally, if you 
have questions during the 
game, please consult the 
Almanac (it begins on page 10).
Odds for 
Dice Rolls
2 & 12 = 3%
3 & 11 = 6%
4 & 10 = 8%
5 & 9 = 11%
6 & 8 = 14%
7 = 17%
Resource Production
Illustration B
The first player to play 3 Knight cards 
more Knight cards takes this card.
turn, and you cannot play a development card on 
the turn it’s built.
Hills 
Produce Brick
Forest 
Produces Lumber
Mountains 
Produce Ore
Fields 
Produce Grain
Pasture 
Produces Wool
Produces Nothing
Begin the game with 
the resource cards 
produced by the 
settlements 
marked with 
white stars. 
See H.
Building Costs 
Card
Special Cards

Example: See Illustration A. Blue receives 1 brick card, 
1 lumber card, and 1 ore card for his leftmost settlement 
(i.e., his settlement marked with a star H).
Each player keeps their resource cards hidden in their hand.
Important: Settlements and 
cities may only be placed at 
the corners of the terrain 
hexes—never along the edges 
(see Illustration C). Roads may 
only be placed at the edges of 
the terrain hexes—1 road per 
edge (see Illustration D). The 
Distance Rule Y means many 
intersections along roads will 
remain unoccupied.
Turn Overview
Unless you’re using the Starting 
Set-Up for Experienced Players, 
the oldest player goes first. 
On your turn, you can do the 
following in the order listed:
•	You must roll for resource 
production Y (the result applies to all players).
•	You may trade Y resource cards with other players and/or 
use maritime trade Y.
•	You may build Y roads Y, settlements Y, or cities Y and/
or buy development cards Y. You may also play one 
development card Y at any time during your turn.
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player to your left, who 
then continues the game with step 1.
Tip: For advanced players, we recommend combining the 
second and third steps. You can find more details in the 
Almanac under “Combined Trade/Build Phase Y.”
The Turn in Detail
1. Resource Production
You begin your turn by rolling both dice. The 
sum of the dice determines which terrain hexes 
produce resources.
Each player who has a settlement on an intersection Y that 
borders a terrain hex marked with the number rolled receives 
1 resource card of the hex’s type. For an example see resource 
production Y. If you have 2 or 3 settlements bordering that hex, 
you receive 1 resource card for each settlement. You receive 
2 resource cards for each city you own that borders that hex. 
If there are not enough of a given resource in the supply to 
fulfill everyone’s production, then no one receives any of that 
resource during that turn (unless it only affects 1 player).
2. Trade Y
Afterwards, you may trade freely (using either or both types of 
trades below) to gain needed resource cards:
a) Domestic Trade Y
On your turn, you can trade resource cards with any of the 
other players. You can announce which resources you need and 
what you are willing to trade for them. The other players can 
also make their own proposals and counteroffers.
Important: Players may only trade with the player whose 
turn it is. The other players may not trade among themselves. 
b) Maritime Trade Y
You can also trade without the other players! During your 
turn, you can always trade at 4:1 by putting 4 identical resource 
cards back in their stack and taking any 1 resource card of your 
choice for it. If you have a settlement or city on a harbor Y, you 
can trade with the supply more favorably: at either a 3:1 ratio 
or, in certain harbors, at 2:1 (trading the resource type shown).
Important: The 4:1 trade is always possible, even if you do 
not have a settlement on a harbor.
3. Build Y
Now you can build. Through building, you can increase your 
victory points Y, expand your road network, improve your 
resource production, and/or buy useful development cards. To 
build, you must pay specific combinations of resource cards 
(see the Building Costs Card Y). Take the appropriate number 
of roads, settlements, and/or cities from your supply and place 
them on the game board. Keep development cards hidden in 
your hand.
You cannot build more pieces than what is available in your 
pool—a maximum of 5 settlements, 4 cities, and 15 roads.
a) Road Y Requires: Brick & Lumber
A new road must always connect to 1 of your existing roads, 
settlements, or cities. Only 1 road can be 
built on any given path Y.
The first player to build a continuous 
road (not counting forks) of at least 5 
road segments receives the special card 
“Longest Road Y.” If another player 
succeeds in building a longer road than 
the one created by the current owner of the “Longest Road” 
card, they immediately take the special card (and its 2 victory 
points). Tip: This creates a 4 victory point swing!
Illustration C
Illustration D

b) Settlement Y Requires: Brick, Lumber, Wool, & Grain
Take special note of the “Distance 
Rule” Y: you may only build a 
settlement at an intersection if all 
3 of the adjacent intersections are 
vacant (i.e., none are occupied by any 
settlements or cities—even yours).
Each of your settlements must connect to at least 1 of your 
own roads. Regardless of whose turn it is (i.e., during any 
production phase), when a terrain hex produces resources, you 
receive 1 resource card for each settlement you have adjacent 
to that terrain hex.
Each settlement is worth 1 victory point.
c) City Y Requires: 3 Ore & 2 Grain
You may only establish a city by 
upgrading one of your settlements.
When you upgrade a settlement to 
a city, put the settlement piece back 
in your supply and replace it with a 
city piece.
Cities produce twice as many resources as settlements. 
You acquire 2 resource cards for an adjacent terrain hex that 
produces resources.
Each city is worth 2 victory points.
d) Buying a Development Card Y 
Requires: Ore, Wool, & Grain
When you buy a development card, 
draw the top card from the deck. 
There are 3 different kinds of these 
cards: knight Y, progress Y, and 
victory point Y. Each has a different 
effect (see 4.b, below).
Development cards never go back into the supply, and you 
cannot buy development cards if the supply is empty.
Keep your development cards hidden (in your hand) until 
you use them, so your opponents can’t anticipate your play.
4. Special Cases
a) Rolling a “7” and Activating the Robber Y
If you roll a “7,” no one receives any resources.
Instead, every player who has more than 7 resource cards 
must select half (rounded down) of their resource cards and 
return them to the supply.
Then you must move the robber Y. Proceed as follows:
(1) You must move the robber Y immediately to the number 
token of any other terrain hex or to the desert Y hex.
(2) Then you steal 1 (random) resource card from an 
opponent who has a settlement or city adjacent to the target 
terrain hex. The player who is robbed holds their resource 
cards face down. You then take 1 card at random. If the 
target hex is adjacent to 2 or more players’ settlements or 
cities, you choose which one you want to steal from.
Important: If the production number for the hex containing 
the robber is rolled, the owners of adjacent settlements and 
cities do not receive resources. The robber prevents it.
b) Playing Development Cards Y
At any time during your turn, you may play 1 development 
card (put it face up on the table). That card, however, may not 
be a card you bought during the same turn (except for a victory 
point card, as described below)!
Knight Cards (Purple Frame) Y
If you play a knight card, you must 
immediately move the robber. See “Rolling 
a ‘7’ and Activating the Robber” above and 
follow steps 1 and 2.
Once played, knight cards remain face 
up in front of you. The first player to have 
3 knight cards in front of themself receives 
the special card “Largest Army,” which is 
worth 2 victory points. If another player has 
more knight cards in front of them than the 
current holder of the Largest Army card, they 
immediately take the special card and its 
2 victory points.
Progress Cards (Green Frame) Y
If you play a progress card, follow its 
instructions. Then the card is removed from 
the game (i.e., toss it in the box).
Victory Point Cards (Orange Frame) Y
You must keep victory point cards hidden. 
You may only reveal them during your turn 
and when you are sure that you have 10 
victory points—that is, to win the game. Of 
course, you can reveal them after the end of 
the game if someone else wins. You may play 
any number of victory point cards during your 
turn, even during the turn you purchase them.
Ending the Game
If you have 10 or more victory points during your turn, 
the game ends and you are the winner! If you reach 10 points 
when it is not your turn, the game continues until any player 
(including you) has 10 points on their turn.
Move the robber.
Steal 1 resource from the 
owner of a settlement or 
city adjacent to the 
robber’s new hex.
KNIGHT
MONOPOLY
When you play this card, 
announce 1 type of resource. 
All other players must give 
you all of their resources 
of that type.

CATAN—5–6 Player Extension
The boundless lands of Catan lie before you. The 
enormous island stretches for miles in all directions. 
It offers the promise of bountiful harvests and limitless 
riches. Alas, were it not so crowded! Many other leaders 
have risen to power around you, and you must 
compete with them if you wish to realize your dream 
of becoming the most powerful leader on Catan!
The CATAN 5–6 Player Extension™ allows you to play this 
exciting game of trade and development with up to six players. 
The island is larger, the demand for resources is fiercer, and the 
thrills are even greater!
Game Components
To play CATAN with 5-6 players, you need nearly all of the 
components from CATAN, plus the following pieces:
Game Rules for 5-6 Players
Except as noted below, this Extension uses the same rules 
found in the CATAN base game. The additional rules include:
• Assembling the larger board
• The Special Build Phase
Assembling the Larger Board
At the beginning of each game, you will need to assemble the 
board. The 5-6 Player Extension uses a board very similar to 
the one used in CATAN.
Note: The five and six player games use all of the hexagonal 
tiles and harbor markers from this Extension and all of the 
tiles and harbor markers from the standard CATAN game. 
But, you only use the number tokens from this Extension 
(Lettered A to Y and Za, Zh, and Zc).
Assemble the frame as specified in CATAN and add the 
4 frame pieces from this Extension as shown in illustration A:
• Place an all-sea frame piece between the “2-2” joint A.
• Place the 2:1 wool harbor frame piece between the 
“3-3” joint B.
• Place the 3:1 harbor frame piece between the 
“5-5” joint C.
•	Place an all-sea frame piece between the “6-6” joint D.
5-6 Player Rules
Note: When you want to play with 3-4 players again, we 
have made it easy to separate the cardboard 5-6 Player 
components from the standard CATAN components. 
• Look in the corner of the terrain hexes. The CATAN 
5-6 hexes all have a watermark icon that looks 
like the one depicted here. The standard CATAN 
terrain hexes have no watermarks.
• Look at he number tokens. The letters on the back of the 
CATAN 5-6 tokens are dark brown. The standard CATAN 
ones are black.
Illustration A
11 terrain hexes
turn, and you cannot play a development card 
on the turn it’s built.
2 building costs 
10 settlements 
(5 per player)
8 cities 
(4 per player)
30 roads 
(15 per player)
25 resource 
9 development 
2 harbor 
markers
28 number 
tokens
4 small sea frames

CATAN—5–6 Player Extension
Construct the island from the 30 land hexes by following 
these steps:
1.	Shuffle all of the land hexes face down. Place the hexes face 
down as shown in illustration A.
2.	Turn the hexes face up, without changing their order.
3.	Take the 11 harbor 
markers (the small 
5-sided pieces with ships 
on them) and randomly 
place them on top of each 
harbor on the frame as 
shown in illustration B.
4.	Place the number tokens 
from this Extension on 
the board (do not use the 
number tokens from CATAN) as shown in illustration C. 
Place the number token labeled “A” on any of the corner 
tiles. Continue placing the tokens in alphabetical order 
along a spiral, starting on the outside ring and proceeding 
counter-clockwise toward the center of the board. Place 
each token so that the numbered side is facing up. When 
the chain of tokens reaches a desert hex, skip over that hex 
and continue on the other side.
Note: The last three tokens are each marked with two 
letters: Za, Zb, Zc.
5.	Place the robber on any one of the desert hexes.
The Special Building Phase
We’ve added an additional phase for each player. With 5 or 
6 players, you should use this turn sequence instead of the one 
described in CATAN:
• Roll the Dice—You must roll for resource production.
• Trade/Build Phase—You may trade resources with 
other players. You may also build roads, settlements, and 
cities and/or purchase development cards. These are all 
interchangeable actions. For instance, you can build, trade, 
buy a card, trade, and build some more.
• End of Turn—Once you complete all of your trading/
building and you have finished your turn, pass the dice to 
the next player.
•	Special Build Phase—Your opponents may build as 
outlined below.
The Special Build Phase occurs after your turn (i.e., 
between player turns). All the other players may participate in 
the special build phase. 
In clockwise order, each player then takes a special build 
turn. On your special build turn, you are allowed to build 
anything you can create with your resource cards.
During the special build phase, you are not allowed to 
play development cards, nor trade with other players, nor 
use maritime trade. You may only use the resources you have 
in your hand. For this reason, players are advised to trade 
as much, and as advantageously, as possible with the current 
player during that player’s trade phase. This could give you the 
resources you need to build during the special build phase.
The special build phase is an opportunity for all the other 
players (who are not currently taking their turn) to build roads, 
settlements, and cities, and/or to buy development cards. This 
phase allows each player to influence the game, even though it 
is not their turn! Since players are allowed to build more often, 
they can interfere with the plans of other players. They can even 
keep their hand size at 7 or lower, so they do not have to lose 
cards to the robber.
As in CATAN, you may play one development card at any 
time during (and only during) your turn (i.e., at any point you 
possess the dice). Therefore, you may not play a development 
card during your special build phase.
Illustration B
 
 
 
 
 
Illustration C

Helpers of Catan
The Story
Come meet some of the most influential and helpful people 
on CATAN. They are offering their skills and experience to help 
you with your building plans. This small expansion is suitable 
for use with CATAN and with CATAN: Seafarers.
Scenario Rules
Except where noted here, use CATAN rules.
New Components
You will need all the components included in standard 
CATAN. Helpers of CATAN™ contains the following 
components:
• 10 double-sided helper cards
Set-Up
Set up your game as usual. Then prepare 
the Helpers cards.
Each helper card has a blue “A” side 
and a red “B” side.
Six of the helpers have a number 
in addition to the letter on their “A” side. 
Make a stack of the six numbered cards, “A” side up. The top 
card is A1 and the remaining cards follow in numerical order 
(A2, A3, and so on).
Finally, place the remaining helpers beside the board to 
form a display.
Note: Helper cards in the display are always A-side up.
Taking Your First Helper
As soon as you build your second settlement and road in 
the set-up phase, take the helper card from the top of the stack 
and place it in front of you with the “A” side up. This means 
that the player to the starting player’s right will always start 
with the helper card Nassir.
Once everyone has their starting helper card, add any 
remaining helpers from the stack to the display beside 
the board.
Using Helpers
First, it is important to remember that you will always have 
one (and only one) helper in front of you at all times during 
the game—no more, no less.
Each helper offers you a special advantage. You can use 
this advantage whenever you wish, as long as you follow the 
specific rules for each helper as explained in the Helpers in 
Detail section. The helpers’ advantages are also summarized 
on their respective cards.
After Using a Helper’s Advantage
Once you have used your helper’s advantage, you have 
2 options:
• 	Keep the helper: This option is only available if your 
helper is “A” side up. Turn the card over to its “B” side 
and keep it in front of you. You can use the helper a 
second time on a subsequent turn. 
NOTE: If your helper card is already on its “B” side, 
you must use the second option below.
• 	Exchange the helper: Return the helper to the display 
and choose one of the other available helpers from the 
display (no, you cannot take back the one you just 
placed on the display). Place your new helper “A” side up 
in front of yourself.
Example: Mike has the helper “Jean.” He uses Jean’s 
advantage during his turn. The card is on its “A” side, so 
Mike can either flip Jean to the “B” side or exchange her 
for a different helper. He decides to exchange. Mike places 
“Jean” into the display and takes the “Marianne” card from 
the display, placing it “A” side up in front of himself.
Prohibitions
• You can never use a helper card during the same turn 
that you receive it.
• You can never use the helper more than once during 
a turn.
• When playing with 5-6 players, you may never use a 
helper during the Special Building Phase.
Helpers Rules

Helpers of Catan
Helpers in Detail
Here is a full description of all of the helpers and the 
advantages they each give you. The rules printed here are 
the full rules for each helper. The text on each helper card is 
merely a summary of these rules.
The “After use” text at the bottom of each card is identical 
for all helpers. It reads as follows:
“A” Side: After use: You may turn this helper over or 
exchange him/her with 1 from the display.
“B” Side: After use: You must exchange this helper with 
1 from the display.
Candamir—Use this advantage only 1 time 
during your turn. When you buy a development 
card, you may substitute 1 of the 3 resources with 
any 1 other resource of your choice (for example, 
wool, grain, and lumber). Additionally, when 
taking that development card, instead of drawing 
1 card at random from the top of the development 
card deck, draw the top 3 cards and choose 1 of 
them to keep. Return the 2 cards you did not choose and reshuffle 
the development card deck.
Hilde—Use this advantage only 1 time during 
your turn. After your production roll has been 
resolved, choose an opponent who has more 
victory points showing on the board than you do. 
You may look at that player’s hand of resource 
cards and take 1 resource card of your choice.
Jean—During your turn, choose 1 resource type. 
You may exchange that resource type with the 
supply at a 2:1 rate as often as you like during this 
turn (for example, if you choose ore, you can 
give 2 ore to the supply and take any 1 other 
resource of your choice).
Lin—Use this advantage only 1 time during your 
turn. You may use it before or after resolving 
your production roll. If the robber is on a terrain 
hex, you may move the robber to the desert. After 
moving the robber this way, you receive 1 resource 
of the type produced by the vacated hex (for 
example, if the robber vacated a hills hex, you 
receive a brick).
Note 1: After using Lin’s advantage, you do not get to take a 
resource from a player with a settlement or city adjacent to 
the desert.
Note 2: “Before or after resolving your production roll” 
means that once you roll the dice for production, you cannot 
use Lin’s advantage until after you take your resource cards 
or completely resolve a “7” roll (depending on what you roll).
Louis—Use this advantage only 1 time during 
your turn. You may remove 1 of your roads from 
the board and rebuild it for free. Louis can only 
move a road where 1 of its 2 ends is not connected 
to any of your other pieces (ignore opponents’ 
pieces when you are checking connections). 
 
When playing with CATAN: Seafarers: If one of 
your roads is connected at 1 end to one of your ships (as long 
as this ship was built from the other direction), this road may 
also be removed and rebuilt. This road and this ship are only 
considered “connected” when your own settlement is built 
between them.
Marianne—Use this advantage on any player’s 
turn. If any production roll is not a “7” and you 
receive no resources, take any 1 resource card of 
your choice. You get to use this advantage before 
any other helper is used by one of your opponents.
Nassir—Use this advantage only 1 time during 
your turn. First declare a resource card type (for 
example, you could say “wool”). Next, choose 
1 or 2 opponents. Those opponents must each give 
you 1 card of the declared type (if they have it). 
Finally, for each resource card you received in this 
way, you must give the player that gave it to you 
1 resource card of your choice in return.
Sean—Use this advantage on any player’s 
turn. When any production roll results in a “7,” 
you may immediately use either of these two 
advantages:
• If you have more than 7 resource cards 
in your hand, you do not have to discard 
any cards.
• If you have 7 or fewer resource cards in 
your hand, you may take any 1 resource 
of your choice from the supply.
Vincent—Use this advantage only 1 time during 
your turn. You may discard 1 knight card that you 
have already played to reduce your building costs 
as follows (choose one):
• Build 1 settlement for 1 lumber plus 1 brick
• Upgrade a settlement to a city for 2 ore plus 
1 grain.
William—Use this advantage only 1 time during 
your turn. When you build a road, you may alter 
the resources required to build that road. Instead 
of the usual 1 lumber plus 1 brick, you may 
substitute either the lumber or the brick with any 
1 other resource of your choice (for example, you 
could build a road for 1 lumber plus 1 wool).

Almanac
This CATAN Almanac contains detailed, alphabetical entries 
and examples for CATAN. These are not the “Game Rules.” 
You do not have to read this material prior to your first game. 
Instead, use the Game Rules. Then read this to enjoy the 
complete experience.
This almanac includes advanced rules and clarifications. You 
can also refer to it if any questions arise during a game.
Build (Building)
You may build on your turn after you have rolled for resource 
production and finished trading. To build, you must turn in the 
specified combinations of resource cards (see the Building 
Costs Cards Y). Return the resource cards to the supply stacks. 
You can build as many items and buy as many cards as 
you desire—as long as you have enough resources to “pay” 
for them and they are still available in the supply. (See 
Settlements Y, Cities Y, Roads Y, and Development Cards Y.)
Each player has a supply of 15 roads, 5 settlements, and 4 
cities. If you build a city, return the settlement to your supply. 
Roads and cities, however, remain on the board until the end of 
the game once they are built.
Your turn is over after “building,” and the player to your left 
continues the game.
New rule variant: see Combined Trade/Build Phase Y.
Building Costs Cards
The building costs cards show what can be built and which 
resources are required. When you pay building costs, you must 
return the necessary resources to their supply stacks. You 
can build settlements Y and roads Y, upgrade settlements to 
cities Y, and buy development cards Y.
Cities
You cannot build a city directly. You can only 
upgrade an existing settlement to a city. You pay 
the required resources, return the settlement to 
your supply, and replace the settlement with a city on the same 
intersection Y. Each city is worth 2 victory points. You receive 
double resource production (2 resource cards) from the 
adjacent terrain hexes whenever those numbers are rolled.
When you build a city, the upgraded settlement piece becomes 
available again. You can use it to build another settlement later.
Example: See Illustration E. Claudia, the blue player, rolls 
a resource production roll of “8.” She receives 3 ore cards: 1 
ore for her settlement and 2 ore for her city. Benny, the red 
player, receives 2 lumber for his city.
Hint: It is extremely difficult to win the game without 
upgrading settlements to cities. Since you only have 
5 settlements available, solely building settlements will 
earn you only 5 victory points.
Coast
The boundary between a terrain hex and the sea (i.e., a frame 
piece) is called a “coast.” You can build a road along a coast. 
You can build settlements and upgrade settlements to cities on 
intersections that border on the sea. However, since a site on 
the coast borders only 1 or 2 terrain hexes, coastal settlements 
generate smaller resource yields. Still, coastal sites often lie 
on harbors, which allow you to use maritime trade Y to trade 
resources at more favorable rates.
Combined Trade/Build Phase
The separation of the trade and build phases was introduced 
to make the sequence easier to learn for beginners. We 
recommend experienced players ignore this separation.
After rolling for resource production, you can trade and build 
in any order (you can trade, build, trade again and build again, 
etc.). You can even use a harbor on the same turn you build a 
settlement there. Using this method speeds up the game a lot.
Illustration E
E8
E8

The desert is the only terrain hex 
that does not produce resources. 
The robber Y starts the game 
there. A settlement or a city built 
adjacent to the desert yields fewer 
resources than those built next to 
one of the other terrain types.
Development Cards
There are 3 different kinds of development 
cards: knight cards Y, progress cards Y, and 
victory point cards Y.
When you buy a development card, take 
the top card of the draw pile into your hand. 
Keep your development cards hidden until 
you play them. This keeps the other players 
in the dark.
You cannot trade or give away development cards.
You may only play 1 development card during your turn—
either 1 knight card or 1 progress card. You can play the 
card at any time, even before you roll the dice. You may not, 
however, play a card that you bought during the same turn.
Exception: If you buy a card and 
it is a victory point card Y that 
brings you to 10 points, you may 
immediately reveal this card 
(and all other VP cards) and 
win the game.
You only reveal victory point 
cards when the game is over—once 
you or an opponent reaches 10+ 
victory points and declares victory.
Note: Although you may play a Knight, a Monopoly, or a 
Road Building development card before you roll the dice, 
practically speaking, you will only play kinght cards (to 
move the robber off of one of your production hexes).
Distance Rule
You may only build a settlement on an unoccupied 
intersection Y and only if none of the 3 adjacent intersections 
contains a settlement or city.
Example: See Illustration F (upper right). Coleman, the 
blue player, wants to build a settlement. The settlements 
marked “A” are already in play. Coleman cannot build 
on the intersections marked “B.” He can only build at 
intersection “C.”
Domestic Trade
On your turn, you may trade resources with the other players 
(after rolling for resource production). You and the other 
players negotiate the terms of your trades—such as which 
cards will be exchanged. You may trade as many times as you 
can, using single or multiple cards. However, you cannot give 
away cards or trade matching resources (“trade” 3 ore for 1 
ore, for example).
Important: While it is your turn, you must be a part of 
all trades, and the other players may not trade among 
themselves.
Example: It is Pete’s turn. He needs one brick to build a 
road. He has 2 lumber and 3 ore. Pete asks aloud, “Who will 
give me 1 brick for 1 ore?” Beth answers, “If you give me 
3 ore, I’ll give you a brick.” Cooper interjects, “I’ll give you 
1 brick if you give me 1 lumber and 1 ore.” Pete accepts 
Cooper’s offer and trades a lumber and an ore for a brick. 
Note Beth may not trade with Cooper, since it is Pete’s turn.
E
Ending the Game
If you have—or reach—10 victory 
points on your turn, the game ends 
immediately and you win! You can only 
win during your turn. If somehow you find 
you have 10 victory points during another 
player’s turn, you must wait until your next 
turn to claim victory.
Example: Siobhán has 2 settlements 
(2 points), the Longest Road special 
card (2 points), 2 cities (4 points), 
and 2 victory point cards (2 points). 
She reveals her 2 victory point cards, 
giving her the 10 points needed to win. 
She surprises her opponents and 
claims victory!
Illustration F
CHAPEL
GREAT HALL
C B

G
Game Play
Here is a summary of the the game sequence, plus some 
more specific entries where you can find details:
(1) Lay out the game board: Set-up, Variable Y
(2) Initial set-up: Set-up Phase Y
(3) Play
The starting player begins the game. The other players follow 
in clockwise order.
On your turn, you complete these 3 phases in order (unless 
you are playing with the Combined Trade/Build Phase Y):
• Roll for Resource Production Y (the roll applies to 
all players)
• Trade Y
• Build Y
You may play 1 development card any time during your turn.
Pass the dice to the player on your left at the end of your turn. 
That player then takes their turn using the same 3 phases.
Harbors
Harbors allow you to trade 
resources more favorably. In 
order to control a harbor, you 
must build a settlement on a 
coastal intersection Y which 
borders the harbor. See also 
“Maritime Trade” Y.
I
Intersections
Intersections are the points where 3 hexes meet or 1 or 
2 hexes meet the frame. The white circles in Illustration G 
indicate various 
intersections. You may 
only build settlements 
on intersections. The 
influence (for resource 
yields) of settlements 
and cities extends into 
the adjacent terrain 
hexes that form 
the intersection.
K
Knight Cards
When you play a “Knight” development card during your turn, 
you must immediately move the robber Y. Place the knight card 
face up in front of you.
You must move the robber away from its current spot and 
onto the number token of any other terrain hex or on the 
desert.
You then steal 1 resource card from a player who has a 
settlement or a city adjacent to the robber. If there are 2 or 
more such players, you may choose your victim.
The player you elect to rob keeps their cards face down while 
you take 1 of their cards at random. If that player has no cards, 
you get nothing! (However, you can always ask players about the 
number of cards they hold. They must answer truthfully.)
If you are the first player to have 3 knight cards face up in 
front of you, you take the “Largest Army” Y special card. This 
special card is worth 2 victory points.
If another player has more face-up knight cards than you, 
they take the special card and the 2 victory points that go with it.
Note: You can play a knight card on your turn before you 
roll the dice. See also: Development Cards.
Example: See Illustration H. On Niall’s turn, he plays a 
knight card and moves the robber from the fields hex to the 
hills hex with the “4.” Niall may now steal a random resource 
card from player A or B.
L
If you are the first player to play 
3 knight cards, you receive this special 
card, which is worth 2 victory points. 
You place the “Largest Army” card face 
up in front of you. If another player 
plays more knight cards than you have, 
they immediately take the special card. 
The 2 victory points likewise count for 
the new owner.
Illustration H
J4
The first player to play 3 knight cards 
more knight cards takes this card.
Illustration G

If you are the first player to build a 
continuous road of at least 5 individual 
road pieces, you take this special card 
and place it face up in front of you. This 
card is worth 2 victory points.
Note: If your road network 
branches, you may only count the 
single longest branch for purposes of 
the longest road.
If you hold the “Longest Road” card and another player 
builds a longer road, they immediately take your “Longest 
Road” card. They also acquire the 2 bonus victory points. 
(Since you also lose the 2 victory points, it is a 4 point swing!)
Example: See Illustration I. Emily, the red player, builds a 
continuous road with 7 wooden pieces (A–B). The branch 
roads (marked with arrows) are not counted. Emily snags 
the “Longest Road” special card.
You can break an opponent’s road by building a settlement on 
an unoccupied intersection along that road!
Example: In Illustration I, Coleman (the blue player) builds 
a settlement on intersection “C” (which is legal). This breaks 
Emily’s road into 2 parts. Emily must give the special card to 
Coleman, who now has the Longest Road (and 2 more VPs).
Special Case: If your longest road is broken and you are 
tied for longest road, you still keep the “Longest Road” card. 
However, if you no longer have the longest road but two or 
more players tie for the new longest road, set the “Longest 
Road” card aside. Do the same if no one has a 5+ segment 
road. The “Longest Road” card comes into play again when only 
1 player has the longest road (of at least 5 road pieces).
M
Maritime Trade
On your turn, you can trade resources using maritime trade 
during the trade phase even without involving another player.
The most basic (and unfavorable) exchange rate is 4:1. 
You may trade 4 identical resource cards 
to the supply in exchange for 
1 resource card of your choice. You 
do not need a harbor Y (settlement 
at a harbor location) to trade at 4:1, 
so when nobody wants to trade…
Example: Benny returns 4 ore cards 
to the supply and takes 1 lumber card in exchange. Normally, 
he should first try a more favorable trade with the other 
players (domestic trade).
If you have built a settlement or city at a harbor Y location, 
you can trade more effectively. There are 2 different kinds of 
harbor locations:
Generic Harbor (3:1): Here 
you may exchange 3 identical 
resource cards for any 1 other 
resource card during your 
trade phase.
Example: Brad has a settlement 
at a generic harbor. He can, for 
instance, exchange 3 lumber cards for 1 wool card.
Special Harbor (2:1): There is 
only 1 special harbor for each 
type of resource (with the same 
symbol). So, if you earn plenty of 
a certain type of resource, it can 
be useful to build on the special 
harbor for that resource type. The 
exchange rate of 2:1 only applies 
to the resource shown on the 
harbor location. A special harbor does not permit you to 
trade any other resource type at a more favorable rate (not 
even 3:1)!
Example: Ron built a settlement at the ore special harbor. 
He may exchange 2 ore cards for any 1 other resource card. 
He can also trade 4 ore cards for any 2 other cards. If he 
traded 4 wool instead of 4 ore, he would get only 1 card in 
return.
Illustration I
:

N
Number Tokens
The 18 number tokens are marked with the 
numerals “2” through “12.” There is only one “2” 
and one “12.” There is no “7.”
The more often a number is rolled, the more 
often each associated hex produces resources. Note the size of 
the numbers and the dots (pips) beneath the numbers on the 
tokens. The taller the number and the larger the quantity of 
dots, the more likely it is that number will be rolled. “6” and 
“8” (the red numbers) are the most frequently rolled numbers. 
They each have 5 dots, because there are 5 ways to roll these 
numbers on the 2 dice.
The letters on the back of the number tokens are only used 
during the set-up phase (see Set-up, Variable Y).
P
Paths
Paths are defined as the edges where 
2 hexes and/or hexes and the frame 
meet. Paths run along the border of 
2 terrain hexes or between a land hex 
and the frame. Only one road Y can be 
built on any path. At each end of a path 
is an intersection Y.
Progress Cards
Progress cards are a type of development card. They have 
green frames. There are 2 each of 3 varieties:
Road Building: If you play this card, you may 
immediately place 2 free roads on the board 
(according to normal building rules).
Year of Plenty: If you play this card, you may 
immediately take any 2 resource cards from 
the supply stacks. You may use these resource 
cards to build during the same turn.
Monopoly: If you play this card, you must 
name 1 type of resource. All the other players 
must give you all of the resource cards of 
this type that they have in their hands. If an 
opponent does not have a resource card of 
the specified type, they do not have to give 
you anything.
You may play only 1 development card Y during 
your turn.
R
Resource Cards (Resources)
There are 5 different types of resources 
(see page 3): grain (from fields), brick (from 
hills), ore (from mountains), lumber (from 
forest), and wool (from pasture). These 
resources are represented by “resource 
cards.” You receive these cards as income 
from the resource production of these hexes. Resource 
production is determined by the dice roll at the beginning 
of each turn. You receive your income for each terrain hex 
adjacent to your settlements or cities every time the production 
number on the hex is rolled (exception: see Robber Y).
Resource Production
On your turn, you must roll the dice for the turn’s resource 
production. The number rolled determines which hexes 
produce resources. Each number appears twice—except for 
“2” and “12,” which only appear once.
All players who have settlements Y or cities Y on the hexes 
indicated by the roll receive the yields (resource cards) of those 
hexes. For each settlement, they receive 1 resource card. For 
each city, they receive 2 resource cards.
Example: See Illustration J. Loren, the blue player, rolls a 
“4.” Her settlement “A” borders a hills hex marked with the 
number “4,” so she takes a brick card. If settlement “A” had 
been a city, she would have received 2 brick cards. Bridget 
owns the red settlement “B” that borders on 2 hexes with the 
number “4”: hills and pasture. Bridget takes 1 brick card and 
1 wool card from the supply stacks.
It is possible that during the game there will not be enough 
resources in the supply to provide all of the yields. If there 
are not enough resource cards to give every player all the 
production they earn, then no player receives any of that 
resource that turn. Exception: If the shortage of resource 
cards only affects a single player, give that player as many of 
these resources as are left in the supply, and any extras are 
lost. In either case, production of other types of resources is 
not affected.
ROAD BUILDING
Place 2 new roads as if
you had just built them.
Take any 2 resources from
the bank. Add them to
your hand. They can be
2 of the same resource or
2 different resources.
YEAR OF PLENTY
MONOPOLY
When you play this card, 
announce 1 type of resource. 
All other players must give 
you all of their resources 
of that type.
Illustration J

Resource Trade
In the second phase of your turn, you may trade with 
the other players. The other players may not trade among 
themselves, only with the player whose turn it is. There are 
2 different kinds of trade:
• Domestic trade Y and 
• Maritime trade Y.
Roads
The roads connect your 
settlements and cities. You 
build roads on paths Y. You 
cannot build new settlements 
without also building roads. 
Roads provide victory points 
only if you hold the Longest 
Road Y special card. Only 
1 road may be built on each 
path. You can build roads 
along the coast.
Example: See Illustration K. Liam, the white player, would 
like to build a road. He may build (place) his road on any of 
the paths outlined in green. Each of these paths connects to 
either Liam’s road or his settlement, and is not blocked by 
the orange player’s settlement (see the path outlined in red).
The robber begins the game in the desert Y. 
It is moved only by rolling a “7” Y or playing 
a Knight Y card.
If the robber is moved to any other terrain 
hex, it prevents that hex from producing 
resources. Players with settlements and/or cities adjacent to the 
target terrain hex receive no resources from this hex as long as 
the robber is in the hex.
“A” and “B” do not receive a brick resource card. This lasts 
until the robber is moved again by another “7” or a knight 
card. Xander may also take 1 resource card at random from 
1 of the players who own settlements “A” or “B”.
Rolling a “7” and Activating the 
If you roll a “7” for resource production, none of the players 
receive resources. Instead:
(1) Each player counts their resource cards. Any player with 
more than 7 resource cards (i.e., 8 or more) must choose 
and discard half of them. Return discards to the supply 
stacks. If you hold an odd number of cards, round down 
(e.g., if you have 9 resource cards, you discard 4).
Example: Alex rolls a “7.” He has only 6 cards in his hand. 
Larry has 8 cards and Will has 11. Larry must discard 4 cards 
and Will 5 (rounding down).
(2) Then you (the player who rolled the “7”) must move 
the robber Y to the number token Y of any other terrain 
hex (or to the desert Y hex). This blocks the resource 
production of this hex, until the robber moves to another 
number token or the desert.
(3) After discarding occurs, you also steal 1 resource card at 
random from a player who has a settlement or city adjacent 
to this new hex. If there are 2 or more players with 
buildings there, you may choose from which one to steal. 
The robber must be moved. You may not choose to leave the 
robber on the same hex.
After moving the robber, your turn continues with the 
trade phase.
See also Knights Y.
S
Settlements
A settlement is worth 1 victory point. 
Settlements are built on intersections Y (where 
3 hexes meet or 1 or 2 hexes meet the frame). 
You share in all of the resource production of each terrain hex 
adjacent to your settlements.
You must meet 2 conditions when building a settlement:
(1)	Your settlement must always connect to 1 or more of your 
own roads Y.
(2)	You must observe the Distance Rule Y. For an example of 
the distance rule, see Illustration M on page 12.
Example: See Illustration L. It is Xander’s turn and he rolls a 
“7.” He must move the robber. The robber was in a fields hex. 
Xander places it on the “4” number token of a hills hex. If a 
“4” is rolled in the coming turns, the owners of settlements 
Illustration L
J4
Illustration K

Example: See Illustration M. Olivia, the blue player, wants 
to build a new settlement. She may only do so at one of the 
intersections marked “B”. She cannot build on “A” because 
of the Distance Rule, nor on “C” because no blue road leads 
to this intersection.
Note: If you have built all 5 of your settlements, you must 
upgrade 1 of your settlements to a city before you can build 
another settlement. You will then have the settlement in your 
supply, so you can build another settlement.
Set-Up Phase
Begin the “set-up 
phase” after you 
build the game map 
(see Illustration 
N and Set-up, 
Variable Y).
Everyone chooses 
a color and takes the 
corresponding game 
pieces:
• 5 settlements;
• 4 cities;
• 15 roads; and
• 1 building costs card.
Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks and place them face up 
into the card trays beside the board. 
Shuffle the development cards Y and place them face down 
into a card tray.
Place the 2 special cards and the dice beside the board.
Place the robber in the desert.
The set-up phase has 2 rounds. Each player builds 1 road and 
1 settlement per round.
Round One
Each player rolls both dice. The 
player who rolls highest is the starting 
player and begins.
The starting player places a 
settlement on an unoccupied 
intersection Y of their choice, then 
places a road adjacent to this settlement.
The other players then follow clockwise.
Everyone places 1 settlement and 1 adjoining road.
Important: When placing all other settlements, the Distance 
Rule Y (see page 7) always applies!
Round Two
Once all players have built their first settlement, the player 
who went last in the first round begins round two. That player 
builds their second settlement and its adjacent road.
Important: After the starting player builds, the other players 
follow counterclockwise, so the starting player in round 
one places their second settlement last.
The second settlement can be placed on any unoccupied 
intersection, as long as the Distance Rule is observed. It 
doesn’t have to connect to the first settlement. The second road 
must attach to the second settlement (pointing in any of the 3 
directions).
Each player receives their starting resources immediately after 
building their second settlement. For each terrain hex adjacent 
to this second settlement, take a corresponding resource card 
from the supply.
Note: The starting player (the last to place their second 
settlement) begins the game: That player rolls both dice for 
resource production. You can find helpful tips about the set-
up phase under “Tactics.”
Set-Up, Variable
Assemble the frame as outlined on pages 2-3.
Note: If you want to vary relative harbor locations slightly, 
just shuffle the order of the frame pieces and do not place 
the random harbor 
pieces as outlined 
below in point 2.
Turn the terrain hexes 
face down. Shuffle the 
terrain hexes.
1. Randomly place 
the terrain tiles face 
up inside the frame 
arranged as shown in 
Illustration O.
Illustration M
Suggested Beginners’ Map Set-up
Illustration N
Illustration O
C B B

2. Now take the 
9 harbor pieces (the 
small 5-sided pieces 
with ships on them) 
and randomly place 
one on top of each 
harbor on the frame. 
See Illustration P.
3. Place the 18 number tokens as shown in Illustration Q:
• Sort the number 
tokens beside the 
board, letter side 
face up.
• Place 1 token on 
each land hex. Start 
at a corner of the 
island. Place the 
number tokens on 
the terrain hexes in 
alphabetical order, 
proceeding counter-
clockwise toward the center. Skip the desert.
Important: Alternatively, you can use a fully random set-up. 
Place 1 token on each land hex. Start at one corner of the 
island, and place the number tokens in random order. In 
such case, the tokens with the red numbers must not be next 
to each other. You may have to swap tokens to ensure that no 
red numbers are on adjacent hexes.
Note: The desert never gets a number token. It should be 
skipped.
More set-up instructions can be found in “Set-up Phase.” Y
Soldier Cards
Some earlier editions of CATAN had soldier cards. These are 
now called knight cards. See Knight Cards Y.
Starting Set-Up for Beginners
If you want to use the starting set-up, lay out the board as 
shown in Illustration R (and the Game Overview):
•	Assemble the frame exactly as shown in Illustration R.
•	Place the terrain hexes exactly as shown in Illustration R.
• Place 2 settlements and 2 roads of each color as shown.
If only 3 are playing, remove the red pieces.
•	Each player receives the 3 resources from the terrain hexes 
adjacent to their settlement marked with the white star.
The oldest player is the starting player. The oldest player takes 
the first turn and rolls for resource production.
T
Tactics
Since you play CATAN with a variable map, the tactical 
considerations of each game are different. There are, 
nevertheless, some common points you should consider:
•	Brick and lumber are the most important resources at the 
beginning of the game. You need both to build roads and 
settlements. You should try to place at least 1 of your first 
settlements on a good forest or hills hex.
•	Do not underestimate the value of harbors. For instance, a 
player with settlements or cities on productive fields should 
try to build a settlement on the “grain” harbor.
•	Leave enough room to expand when placing your first 2 
settlements. Look at your opponents’ sites and roads before 
making a placement. Beware of getting surrounded! If you 
plan to build toward a harbor, the middle of the island may 
be a tricky place for a starting settlement, for it can easily 
be cut off from the coast.
•	The more you trade, the better your chances of victory. 
Even if it is not your turn, you should offer trades to the 
current player!
Illustration Q
Illustration P
Illustration R

Trade
After you roll for resource production, you may trade with 
other players (domestic trade Y) or with the supply (maritime 
trade Y).
•	You may trade as long as you have resource cards.
•	If you decide not to trade during your turn, 
no one can trade.
•	You may trade with another player between your turns, 
but only if it is that player’s turn and they elect to trade 
with you.
•	You may not trade with the supply during another 
player’s turn.
•	You may not give away cards.
•	You may not trade development cards.
•	You may not trade like resources (e.g., 2 wool for 1 wool).
V
Victory Point Cards
Victory point cards are development cards Y, so they can 
be “bought.” These orange 
framed development cards 
represent important cultural 
achievements, represented by 
certain buildings.
Each victory point card is 
worth 1 victory point. You only 
reveal your victory point cards 
when you or someone else 
wins the game! Keep victory 
point cards hidden until you 
have 10 points during your 
turn and you can declare 
victory. (You should also reveal them if someone else wins.)
Hint: Again, keep your victory point cards hidden until the 
end of the game. Place them face down in front of you. Of 
course, if you have 1 or 2 unused cards face down in front of 
you for a long time, the other players will assume that they 
are victory point cards.
Victory Points
The first player to reach (be at) 10 victory points (VPs) 
on their turn wins the game.
Players acquire victory points (VPs) for the following:
1 settlement = 1 VP
1 city = 2 VPs
Longest Road special card = 2 VPs
Largest Army special card = 2 VPs
Victory point (VP) card = 1 VP
Since each player begins with 2 settlements, each player 
begins the game with 2 victory points.
Therefore, you only need 8 more victory points to win the 
game!
Hint: In CATAN, you will often see an icon of a 
rising sun (on VP cards and special VP cards, etc.). 
This is the VP symbol. It is a visual reminder for the 
things, other than settlements and cities, that earn you VPs. 
Each VP symbol you see is worth 1 VP.
CHAPEL
GREAT HALL
A general note on CATAN rules: This is the 5th English-
language edition of CATAN (aka Settlers of Catan). Over 
the years, the rules have been clarified, refined, and 
occasionally updated. As of January 1, 2015, all of the 
rules in this version of CATAN take precedence over any 
previously published rules.
= 1 VP
Victory Points in CATAN
= 1 VP
The first player to play 3 Knight cards 
more Knight cards takes this card.

Almanac Index
Entries
Page
Build (Building) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Building Costs Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Cities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Coast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Combined Trade/Build Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Desert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Development Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Distance Rule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Domestic Trade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Ending the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Game Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Harbors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Intersections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Knight Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Largest Army . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Longest Road . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Maritime Trade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Number Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Paths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Progress Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Resource Cards (Resources) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Resource Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Resource Trade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Roads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Robber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Rolling a “7” and Activating the Robber . . . . . . . . . . 15
Settlements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Set-up Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Set-up, Variable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Soldier Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Starting Set-up for Beginners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Tactics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Trade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Victory Point Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Victory Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Credits
Designer: Klaus Teuber (klausteuber.com)
Original Development: TM-Spiele GmbH
5th Ed. Development Team: Pete Fenlon, Arnd Fischer, 
Ron Magin, Benjamin Teuber, and Guido Teuber
Art: Michael Menzel, Pete Fenlon
Art Direction & Graphic Design: Pete Fenlon, 
Michaela Kienle, and Ron Magin
Production: Ron Magin & Pete Fenlon
Special Thanks: Robert T. Carty, Jr., Coleman Charlton, 
Morgan Dontanville, Alex Colón Hernández, Aud Ketilsdatter 
(LSKC/354-2), Stephanie Newman, Donna Prior, and Kelli 
Schmitz.
Original U.S. Product Development: Coleman Charlton, Robert 
T. Carty Jr., Pete Fenlon, Nick Johnson, Will Niebling, William Niebling, 
Guido Teuber, Larry Roznai, and Alex Yeager.
Copyright © 2020 Catan GmbH and Catan Studio. Catan, 
The Settlers of Catan, the “Catan Sun” logo, the “Glowing Yellow 
Sun” and “Catan Board” marks, and all marks herein are 
trademarks of Catan GmbH and are used under license by Catan 
Studio. Published by Catan Studio, 1995 W. County Rd. B2, 
Roseville, MN 55113. Phone +1.651.639.1905.
You have purchased a game of the highest quality. 
However, if you find any components missing 
or damaged, please visit: 
catanstudio.com/parts
For all other inquiries, contact us at:
info@catanstudio.com
Studio™
catanstudio.com
catan.com

CATAN—Game Overview
The island of Catan lies before you. The isle consists of 
19 terrain tiles surrounded by ocean. Your goal is to settle on 
Catan, and expand your territory until it becomes the largest and 
most glorious on Catan.
There are five productive terrain types and one desert on Catan. 
Each terrain type produces a different type of resource (the 
desert produces nothing). Each resource you receive is represented 
by a card. Here’s what each terrain produces:
You only collect resources if you own a settlement or city 
bordering these terrain hexes. In the illustration, the red 
settlement [A] borders the “10” mountains and orange settlement 
[B] borders the “10” hills. If a “10” is rolled, the red player 
receives 1 ore card and the orange player receives 1 brick card.
Since the settlements and cities usually border on 2-3 terrain 
types, they can “harvest” up to 3 different resources based 
on the dice roll. Here, the white settlement [C] borders on forest, 
mountains, and pasture. A settlement at [D] would only harvest the 
production from 2 terrain hexes (hills and mountains). Finally, a 
settlement at [E] would only harvest the production from 1 terrain 
hex (pasture). However [E] is also at a wool harbor.
Since it’s impossible for you to have settlements adjacent to 
all terrain hexes and number tokens, you may receive certain 
resources only at rare intervals—or never. This is tough, because 
building requires specific resource combinations.
For this reason, you can trade with other players. Make them 
an offer! A successful trade might yield you a big build!
You can only build a new settlement on an unoccupied 
intersection if you have a road leading to that intersection 
and the nearest settlement is at least two intersections away.
Carefully consider where you build settlements. The numbers 
on the round tokens are depicted in varying sizes. They also 
have dots (pips) below the numbers. The taller the 
depicted number, and the more pips it has, the more 
likely that number is 
to be rolled. The red 
numbers 6 and 8 
are the tallest numbers with the 
most pips; they are likely to 
be rolled most frequently.
Bottom line: The 
more frequently a 
number is rolled, 
the more often 
the hexes with 
those numbers 
produce 
resources. 
You should 
consider 
settling on 
hexes that have 
good potential for 
production (i.e. 
6 and 8 vs. 2 and 12). 
However, these same 
high-producing hexes are 
often the primary target for 
the robber.
You begin the game with 2 settlements and 2 roads. Each 
settlement is worth 1 victory point. You therefore start the 
game with 2 victory points! The first player to acquire 10 victory 
points on their turn wins the game.
To gain more victory points, 
you must build new roads 
and settlements and upgrade your 
settlements to cities. Each city 
is worth 2 victory points. To 
build or upgrade, you need 
to acquire resources.
How do you 
acquire 
resources? It’s 
simple. Each 
turn, you roll 
2 dice to 
determine 
which terrain 
hexes produce 
resources. Each 
terrain hex is marked 
with a round number 
token. If, for example, a 
“10” is rolled, all terrain 
hexes with a “10” number 
token produce resources—in 
the illustration on the right, those 
terrain hexes are a mountains 
hex (ore) and a hills hex (brick).
Harbor
Harbor
Path
Path
Intersection
Intersection
Hills 
Produce Brick
Forest 
Produces Lumber
Mountains 
Produce Ore
Fields 
Produce Grain
Pasture 
Produces Wool
Produces Nothing
E