ber.
ber.
er o
er o
r cit
r cit
obb
obb
Take any 
2 resources from the 
bank. Add them to your 
hand. They can be 2 of 
the same resource or 
2 different resources.
YEAR OF PLENTY
m th
m th
to y
to y
be 2
be 2
urce
urce
ENTY
ENTY
Place 2 new roads 
as if you had just 
built them.
ROAD BUILDING
oad
oad
just
just
.
DING
DING
When you play this card, 
announce 1 type of 
resource. All other players 
must give you all of their 
resources of that type.
MONOPOLY
s ca
s ca
pe
pe ofof
play
play
of th
of th
typ
typ
LY
LY
UNIVERSITY
TY
TY
CHAPEL
GREAT HALL
LL
LL
Victory Point
Victory Point
Reveal this card on you
Reveal this card on you
turn if, with it, you reac
turn if, with it, you reac
f
h
h
b
f
p
d f
p
LIBRARY
Longest 
Road: 2 VP
Largest 
Army: 2 VP
Building Costs
Development Card
0 VP
1 VP
2 VP
? VP
?
This card goes to the 
player with the longest 
road of at least 
5 segments. Another 
player who builds a longer 
road takes this card.
This card goes to the first 
player to play 3 knight 
cards. Another player who 
plays more knight cards 
takes this card.
Co
Co
Studio™
catanstudio.com
catan.com
INSTRUCTIONS
Do you already know the game rules for Catan? If so, you're basically ready to 
start playing. The only new thing is that you set up the island using the 6 game board 
pieces. The starting set-up for beginners is shown on page 2 of these rules, and the starting 
set-up for experienced players is explained on page 12.
You don't know the game's rules yet? In that case, consult our 3-part rules system. The 
Game Overview (page 2– 3) introduces you to the game. After the overview, read the 
Game Rules (page 4– 8) and start playing. For more detailed questions please refer to the 
Almanac (page 12–16), where you can find further explanations for all keywords marked ✹
in the game rules.
Also, please read the hints and tips regarding the use of the compact box on page 9!
GAME COMPONENTS
6 Game Board Pieces Depicting Terrain 
95 Resource Cards
25 Development Cards
4 Building Cost Cards 2 Special Victory Point Cards
Game Piece Sets (in 4 colors)
Each set has: 5 Settlements, 
15 Roads, and 4 Cities
1 Robber 
 1 Dice Shaker
2 Card Trays
Trade, Maritime
During the trade phase of your 
turn, you can trade resources without 
involving other players by using what is 
called Maritime Trade. 
• Without a harbor: The most basic (and unfavorable) 
exchange rate is 4:1. You may trade 4 resource cards of the 
same type to the supply in exchange for the (1) resource card of 
your choice. You do not need a harbor to trade at 4:1.
• With a harbor: If you have built a settlement or city at a harbor, you can trade 
more effectively. There are 2 different types of harbors: 
1. Generic harbor (3:1): During your turn’s trade phase, you may 
exchange 3 resource cards of the same type for any 1 other resource 
card of your choice.
2. Special harbor (2:1): There is 1 special harbor for each type of resource. The 
favorable exchange rate of 2:1 applies only to the resource shown on the special 
harbor you control. I.e.: if Blue controls a grain harbor, Blue can maritime trade grain 
at a 2:1 rate, not any of the other resources.
Please Note: A special harbor does not entitle you to trade the other resource 
types at a 3:1 rate!
Important: You are only allowed to conduct maritime trade on your turn!
Victory Points (VPs)
If you are the first player to reach 10 VPs on your turn, you win the game. You receive VPs for the following:
 1 settlement 
= 1 VP 
 
Longest road 
 1 city 
 
Largest army 
 Victory point card = 1 VP
Note: Since you begin the game with 2 settlements, you begin the game with 2 VPs and you only need to earn 
8 more VPs to win the game!
Victory Point Cards (VP cards)
VP cards are development cards, therefore you can “buy” them. 
VP cards represent important cultural achievements. Each VP card is worth 1 VP. Keep your victory point 
cards secret. If you reach 10 VPs (including your victory point cards) on your turn, reveal your VP cards to 
declare victory. 
Hint: Always store your victory point cards in such a way that your opponents are unable to draw any conclusions. 
If you have 1 or 2 unused cards face down in front of you for a long time, the other players will assume that they 
are victory point cards.
A1
A2
A3
A4
A5
A6
Credits
Designer: Klaus Teuber (www.klausteuber.com)
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Graphic Design: Michaela Kienle, Fine Tuning Graphics
Development: Benjamin Teuber, Arnd Fischer
Production: Ron Magin
Production Managed by: 
Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pﬁ zerstr. 5–7, 70184 Stuttgart
Tel.: + 49 711 2191-0, Fax: + 49 711 2191-199
info@kosmos.de, kosmos.de
MADE IN CHINA
Special Thanks: Alex Colón-Hernández, Morgan Dontanville, 
Pete Fenlon, Stephanie Newman, Donna Prior, Kelli Schmitz, 
and Guido Teuber.
Copyright © 2020 CATAN GmbH and CATAN Studio. Printed 
in cooperation with Kosmos Verlag. CATAN, The Settlers of 
CATAN, the CATAN Sun logo, the Glowing Yellow Sun mark, 
the CATAN Board mark, and all other marks herein are 
trademark properties of CATAN GmbH used under license 
by Catan Studio. 
All rights reserved.
You have purchased a game of the highest quality. However, 
if you ﬁ nd any components missing or defective, please use 
our online customer support portal at:
www.catanstudio.com/parts
For all other inquiries, contact us at: info@catanstudio.com
Longest
Largest
Army
14 Trade Cards
These are only used in 
the 2 player game.

 The island of Catan lies before you. It consists of 
19 terrain hexes surrounded by sea. Your task is to settle 
the island.
 There are 5 different terrain types and 1 desert on Catan. Each terrain 
type produces a different type of resource.
 You begin the game with 
2 settlements and 2 roads. Each 
settlement is worth 1 victory point. 
You therefore start the game with 
2 victory points. The first player 
to reach 10 victory points wins 
the game.
 To obtain more 
victory points, you 
must build new roads 
and settlements and 
upgrade your settlements 
to cities. A city is worth 2 
victory points. To build or 
upgrade, you need resources.
 How do you get resources? It's 
simple. Each turn, roll the 2 dice in 
the shaker to determine which terrain 
hexes produce resources. Each terrain 
hex is marked with a number. If, for 
example, you roll a "3," all terrain hexes 
with the number "3" produce 
resources. In the illustration on 
the right, the terrain hexes 
with the number "3" are 
forest (lumber) and 
mountains (ore)
GAME OVERVIEW &
STARTING SETUP FOR BEGINNERS
 You only collect resources if you own a settlement 
or city bordering these terrain hexes. In the illustration, a 
white settlement "D" borders the forest marked with a "3". 
Additionally, a blue settlement "B" and an orange settlement "C" border 
the mountains marked with a "3". If a "3" is rolled, the white player receives 
1 lumber and the blue player and the orange player each receive 1 ore.
 Since settlements usually border on 2-3 terrain types, they can "harvest" up to 3 different 
resources based on the dice roll. In our example, settlement "B" borders 3 terrain hexes: forests, 
mountains, and hills.
 Since you can't have settlements adjacent to all terrain 
hexes and numbers, you will receive certain resources 
only at rare intervals—others, never. This creates 
challenges because building requires speciﬁ c resource 
combinations.
 For this reason, you can trade with your 
opponents. Make them an offer, or let them 
make you an offer! A successful trade might 
yield a big build.
 You can only build a new 
settlement on an unoccupied 
intersection—provided that one 
of your own roads leads to that 
intersection and the nearest 
settlement is at least 
2 intersections away.
 Carefully consider 
where you build settlements. 
The numbers on the terrain 
hexes are depicted in varying 
sizes. The taller the depicted 
number, the more likely that number 
is to be rolled. The red numbers 6 
and 8 are the tallest numbers with the 
most pips; they are likely to be rolled most 
frequently. Bottom line: The more frequently 
a number is rolled, the more often the 
hexes with those numbers produce 
resources. You should consider 
settling on hexes that have 
good potential for 
production. However, 
these same hexes 
are often the
 primary target 
for the robber.
Forests produce lumber
Fields produce grain
Hills produce brick
Pasture produces sheep
Mountains produce ore
The Desert
produces nothing
Beginning Setup
Robber
Intersection
Path
B
A
C
D
Map Tile Number

 PREPARATION
General
Each player receives one building costs card. Next, 
they each choose a color and take all of the game pieces 
of that color: 5 settlements ✹, 4 cities ✹, and 15 roads ✹.
• Place the special cards "Longest Road" ✹ and "Largest Army" ✹
beside the game board, along with the 2 dice in the shaker.
• Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks and put them face up into the 
compartments of the card holders; they are the supply. 
Place the card holders beside the game board.
• Shuffle the development cards ✹ and put them face down into 
the last free compartment of the card holder. 
• Place the robber in the desert. 
• The trade cards are only needed for the 2-player variant.
Starting Set-up for Beginners (see illustration on page 2 / 3)
For your first few games, we suggest that you set up the game board as shown in the 
illustration on page 2 / 3. Each of the 6 game board pieces has an identification mark on its 
outer edge, such as A1, A2 or B3. Turn all board pieces so that their "A" sides face up; starting 
with A1, place them clockwise (according to the illustration) onto the game board.
Lastly, each player receives a starting resource income from 1 of their settlements (in the 
illustration, each starting income-producing settlement is marked with a letter): for each 
terrain hex bordering your marked settlement, you take 1 of the corresponding resource cards 
from the supply I.e.: Red takes 2 lumber cards and 1 grain card from settlement "A". Blue takes 1 
lumber, 1 ore, and 1 brick from settlement "B". Orange takes 1 ore and 2 grain from settlement 
"C". White takes 1 lumber, 1 ore, and 1 wool from settlement "D".
Starting Set-up for Experienced Players
After 1 or 2 games you should use the variable set-up.
You can find the corresponding information in the Almanac under Set-up, Variable ✹.
Special Rules: CATAN for Two Players
This variant is played with slightly modified rules, which are explained on page 10 / 11.
 TURN OVERVIEW
For your first game, the oldest player goes first. Once you become a more experienced player, 
you can roll to see who goes first. On your turn, you can do the following in the order listed:
1. You must roll the dice and resolve resource production (the result of your roll 
applies to all players).
2. You may trade ✹ resources—also with your opponents.
3. You may build ✹: roads ✹, settlements ✹ or cities ✹, and/or you may 
buy development cards ✹.
In addition, you may play 1 development card ✹ at almost any time 
during your turn. This includes before rolling the dice and after 
handing out resource cards (or dealing with the robber ✹), 
but not in between.
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player 
to your left, who then continues the 
game with step 1.
1. Resource Production
The player with the dice rolls them: the sum of the pips on 
the dice determine which hexes produce.
• Each player who has a settlement adjacent to a terrain hex marked 
with the number rolled receives 1 resource card of the hex's type. If you 
have 2 or 3 settlements adjacent to that hex, you receive 1 resource card for each 
settlement. You receive 2 resource cards for each city you own adjacent to that hex.
Example: If a "3" is rolled, Red receives 
2 lumber for her 2 settlements. White receives 
1 lumber. If an "8" is rolled, White receives 1 
ore. If White's settlement were a city, he would 
receive 2 ore instead.
• Keep all cards in your hand hidden from 
other players. They are only allowed to know 
how many cards you have.
2. Trade
Afterwards you may trade ✹ as often as you like to obtain needed resource cards. There are 
two types of trade:
a) Domestic Trade (trade with Opponents) ✹:
 You can trade resource cards with any of the other players. You can announce which 
resources you need and what you are willing to trade for them. You can also hear your 
opponents' offers and make counteroffers.
Important: Players may only trade with the player whose turn it is. The other players may 
not trade among themselves.
b) Maritime Trade (Trade with the Bank) ✹:
You can also trade without the other players!
• During your turn, you can always trade at 4:1 by returning 4 resource cards of the same 
type to the supply and taking any 1 resource card of your choice in exchange.
• If you have a settlement at a harbor ✹, you can trade with the supply more favorably. 
A 3:1 harbor allows you to trade 3 resources of the same type for any 1 resource card of 
your choice, and at a special 2:1 harbor you can trade 2 resource cards of the indicated type 
for any 1 resource of your choice.
THE TURN
IN DETAIL
Maritime Trade 4:1 without a port
Maritime Trade 2:1 with your
special lumber port
Maritime Trade with your 3:1 port

This card goes to the 
player with the longest 
road of at least 
5 segments. Another 
player who builds a longer 
road takes this card.
Africa is Spring
we walk five paths toward the sun
3. Build
Now you can build. Through 
building, you can increase your 
resource production and your number of 
victory points ✹!
To build, you must pay specific combinations of resource 
cards (see the building costs card). Then you take the 
corresponding number of roads, settlements or cities from your 
supply and place them on the game board. Return the paid resource cards 
to their supply stacks.
a) Road ✹: requires: Brick + Lumber
• A new road must always connect to 1 of your existing roads, settlements, or cities.
• Roads are built on paths.
• Only 1 road can be built on any given path ✹.
Orange may build a new road
on the paths marked in green—
not on the path marked in red, because
Red's settlement blocks it.
• The first player to build a continuous trade route (not counting forks) of at 
least 5 roads that is not interrupted by opponent's settlements or cities 
receives the special card "Longest Road" ✹, worth 2 victory points. If another 
player succeeds in building a longer road than the one created by the current 
owner of the "Longest Road" card, he immediately takes the special card (and 
its 2 victory points).
Example: Red has a continuous road of 6 roads (not counting the fork); therefore, she has the 
"Longest Road." Orange's road is interrupted by one of Red's settlements. So, Orange's 
longest road is actually 5 roads, not 7 roads long.
b) Settlement ✹: requires: 
Brick + Lumber + Grain + Wool
• You must build a settlement on an intersection that 
connects to at least one of your roads. When building a 
settlement, you must observe the distance rule.
Distance rule: You may only build a settlement on an intersection if all 3 (or, 
next to the coast, 2) of the adjacent intersections are vacant (i.e., none are occupied 
by any settlements or cities—even your own).
Example: According to the distance rule, Orange can only build a settlement on the intersection 
marked in green. All of the intersections marked in red are too close to another settlement.
• Each settlement you build allows you to gain resources from the adjacent hexes—
1 resource card per hex, each time that hex's number is rolled.
• Each settlement is worth 1 victory point.
c) City ✹: requires: 3 ore + 2 wheat
You can only build a city by upgrading one of your settlements!
• When you upgrade a settlement to a city, return the settlement piece to your supply and 
replace it with a city piece.
• For cities you receive twice as many resources from adjacent terrain hexes: 
2 resource cards from each adjacent terrain hex whose number is rolled.
• Each city is worth 2 victory points.
d) Development Card ✹: requires: Grain + Wool + Ore
• When you buy a development card, draw the top card from the stack.
• There are 3 different types of development cards, each of which has a different effect:
 Knight ✹ Progress ✹ Victory Point ✹
• Keep your development cards secret until you use them.
Explore the
world of 
Base Game

Take any 
2 resources from the 
bank. Add them to your 
hand. They can be 2 of 
the same resource or 
2 different resources.
YEAR OF PLENTY
Place 2 new roads 
as if you had just 
built them.
ROAD BUILDING
When you play this card, 
announce 1 type of 
resource. All other players 
must give you all of their 
resources of that type.
MONOPOLY
UNIVERSITY
CHAPEL
GREAT HALL
LIBRARY
This card goes to the first 
player to play 3 knight 
cards. Another player who 
plays more knight cards 
takes this card.
4. Special Cases
a) Rolling a "7" ✹ and 
Activating the Robber ✹
• If you roll a "7," no one receives 
any resources. 
• All players who have more than 7 resource cards must 
select half of their resource cards and return them to the 
supply. Players who have an odd number of cards round down 
(for example, if you have 9 cards, you must discard 4 of them). 
• Then you must move the robber ✹:
1. You must move the robber ✹ to another hex (this can also be the desert hex).
2. Then you draw 1 resource card, at random, from one opponent who has a settlement or 
city adjacent to the terrain hex you have placed the robber on. If you are the player who 
is getting robbed, fan your resource cards out so that only you can see what they are so 
that the player robbing you can easily choose a random card.
3. Afterwards, you begin your turn's trade phase. 
Important: If the number of the hex containing the robber is rolled, the owners of adjacent 
settlements and cities do not receive resources from that hex.
b) Playing Development Cards ✹:
During your turn, you may play 1 development card—before or after rolling and resolving 
production. That card, however, may not be a card you bought during the same turn! There 
are three types of development cards.
1. Knight Cards ✹:
• If you play a knight card, you must immediately move the robber. 
(See steps 1 and 2 above).
• Once played, knight cards remain face up in front of yourself. 
• The first player to have 3 knight cards face up in front of himself receives the 
special card "Largest Army," which is worth 2 victory points to its holder.
• If another player has more knight cards face up in front of himself than the 
current holder of the Largest Army card, he immediately receives the special 
card and the 2 victory points move from the old holder to the new holder. 
2. Progress Cards ✹:
 If you play a progress card, follow its instructions. Then remove 
the card from the game (put it in the box, set it aside, etc.). 
3. Victory Point Cards ✹:
 You must keep victory point cards secret. You may only reveal them 
if you or another player reach a total of 10 victory points.
END OF THE GAME ✹
If you have 10 or more victory points during your turn, the game ends and you are the 
winner.
Hints & Tips for handling the case:
• To make it easier for you to reach into the drawers, rotate them slightly away from the 
hinge when you pull them out. Important: The drawers are permanently attached to the 
box. DO NOT try to pull them out completely.
• If you do not play the 2-player variant, you will not need the trade cards. We suggest 
that you put these additional cards at the bottom of one of the card holders' 5 resource 
card compartments. That way, they are stored safely and do not get in the way.
• When disassembling the game, please follow these indications in the order listed:
1. First, put all cards into the card holders.
2. Store each of the two card holders into separate drawers. Put the dice shaker into a 
third drawer.
3. Place the game pieces into the drawers (one color per drawer). Please note: Small bags 
may get stuck in the drawers. Therefore, we advise not to put bags in the drawers.
4. To close the drawers, push them back inward while rotating them towards the hinge, 
then slide/push them into the box until they snap into place.
5. To remove the game board pieces, begin at one of the depressions in the outer edge of 
the board frame.
6. Stack all game board pieces and the manual onto one half of the compact box in no 
particular order. Fold the other half of the box over.
7. Close the sliding side-latch until it snaps into place.
iPhone and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. 
Use of this trademark is subject to Google Permissions. 
Always & Everywhere:
CATAN App for iOS 
and Android!

Extra Components:
 14 Trade Cards
 PREPARATION
Prepare the game according to the normal rules. The two sets of game pieces not 
chosen by the players serve as two imaginary, neutral players. Place the trade cards beside 
the game board; they are the supply. At the beginning of the game, each player receives 
4 trade cards. 
SETUP PHASE
For each neutral player, place 1 settlement (without a road) on one of the intersections of 
the game board marked in the illustration. You and your opponent then build your two 
starting settlements with roads, according to the normal set-up rules. Therefore, after 
finishing the set-up phase, each player has 2 settlements and 2 roads on the game board, 
while each neutral player has 1 settlement.
RULES FOR 2-PLAYER CATAN
In general, the normal 3-4 player rules apply. The changes are described on page 11.
Rolling for Production
On your turn, you roll the dice twice in a 
row. It is essential that the two dice roll results 
differ from one another. Should the second dice roll 
give the same result as the first one, roll again—as many 
times as necessary to produce two different results. 
Immediately after each of the two dice rolls, the two real players 
obtain resources and/or move the robber (a "7" result). You can also move 
the robber in between the two dice rolls by playing a knight card or using a trade 
card for this purpose.
Building Progress of the Neutral Players
Whenever you build a road or a settlement, you must also build (for free) a corresponding 
1 road or 1 settlement for either of the two neutral players. If there is no legal settlement 
location for the neutral players, you must build a road instead.
Note: The neutral players never receive resources, development cards, or build cities. 
However, a neutral player can obtain the "Longest Road."
Using Trade Cards to Take Actions
On your turn (before or after completing the production roll) you can opt to take a special 
action. If your victory point total is less than or equal to your opponent’s total (ignoring VP 
cards, because they are secret), you must pay 1 trade card to take 1 action. If your VP total is 
higher than your opponent, an action costs you 2 trade cards. Return spent trade cards to the 
supply. The actions you can chose from are:
• Forced Trade: You draw 2 random cards from your opponent’s hand; in exchange, you give 
your opponent 2 cards of your choice from your own hand. If you do not have 2 cards to 
give, you cannot Force Trade. If your opponent only has 1 card, you can take it, but still must 
give that opponent 2 cards in exchange. 
Note: You are allowed to give back any or all of the cards you took in the forced trade
• Move the Robber: You move the robber to the desert hex. If your opponent has settlements 
or cities adjacent to the desert, you do not draw a card from him.
Replenishing Trade Cards
• Once during your turn, you may discard one of your face-up knight cards and take 2 trade 
cards in exchange. Remove the discarded card from the game. If you hold the Largest Army 
card and discard a face-up knight card, you might have to set aside the Largest Army card. If 
you only have 2 face-up knight cards after discarding, set it aside. If you and your opponent 
have the same number of face-up knight cards (or your opponent has more) after 
discarding, also set it aside. Thereafter, the player that has the most (at least 3) face-up 
knight cards takes the Largest Army card.
• When you build a settlement adjacent to the desert hex, take 2 trade cards (also applies 
during the set-up phase).
• When you build a settlement on the coast, you take 1 trade card (also applies during the 
set-up phase).
• When you build a settlement adjacent to both the desert and the coast, you 
take 3 trade cards. This also applies during the set-up phase.
• A player may have a maximum of 7 trade cards.
Example: Hans has 6 trade cards and builds adjacent to the 
desert. He would receive 2 trade cards as replenishment, 
but he is not allowed to have more than 7 trade 
cards. Therefore, he only receives 1 trade 
card from the supply. 
FOR TWO

Build
You may build on your turn after you have rolled for 
resource production and finished trading. To build, you 
must pay certain combinations of resource cards (see building 
costs card). Return the resource cards to the supply stacks. You can 
build as many items and buy as many development cards as you desire – as 
long as you have enough resources to “pay” for them and they are still available 
in the supply (see Settlements, Cities, Roads, Development Cards in the almanac). Each 
player has a supply of 15 roads, 5 settlements, and 4 cities. When you upgrade a settlement to 
a city, the settlement piece becomes available again, and you can immediately use it to build 
another settlement. Roads and cities, however, remain on the board until the end of the game once they 
are built.
Your turn is over after “building” (unless you want to play a development card). Play continues with the player to 
your left.
Rule Variant: see Combined Trade/Build Phase.
A City can only be built by improving an existing 
settlement (removing it and replacing it with a city). 
Each of your cities is worth 2 victory points, and they 
produce 2 resource cards from a neighboring terrain 
when that terrain's number is rolled.
Example: Red rolled a "3." Blue receives 3 lumber 
cards: 1 for his settlement and 2 for his city. Orange 
receives 2 ore cards for his city.
Coast
The area where a terrain hex borders on the sea is called the “coast.” You can build a road along a coast. You can 
build settlements and upgrade settlements to cities on intersections along the coast. For settlements and cities on 
the coast, you only receive resources from 1 or 2 terrain hexes. However, coastal settlements and cities often lie at 
harbors, which allow you to use maritime trade to trade resources at a more favorable rate. Settlements on 
coastal intersections without harbors do not give you any trade advantages.
Combined Trade / Build Phase
We recommend experienced players ignore the separation of the trade and build phases. That way, after rolling 
for production you can trade and build in any order. For example, you can trade, build, trade again and build 
again—as long as the cards in your hand allow it. You can even use a harbor on the same turn you built a 
settlement there.
Desert
The desert is the only terrain hex that does not produce resources. The robber is native to the desert, and he starts 
the game there. Keep in mind that if you build a settlement or city adjacent to the desert, you can only receive 
resources from 2 terrain hexes.
Development Cards
There are 3 different types of development cards: knights, progress, and victory points. When you buy a 
development card, draw the top card of the face-down development card stack into your hand. Keep your 
development cards secret until you play them. You cannot trade or give away development cards.
You may play the card at any time on your turn, before or after you “roll and resolve the production dice.” You 
may only play 1 development card during your turn—either 1 knight card or 1 progress card. You may not, 
however, play a development card that you bought during the same turn.
Exception: If you buy a card and it is a victory point card that brings you to 10 points, you may 
immediately reveal this card (and may reveal all victory point cards you have, as an 
exception to the “1 per turn” rule) and win the game.
You only reveal victory point cards when the game is over—once you or an 
opponent reaches 10 victory points and declares victory.
Note: If you are robbed (see “Rolling a “7” and Activating the 
Robber”), your opponent may only steal a resource card 
from your hand, not a development card. Therefore, 
before the opponent draws from your hand you 
should put your development cards down 
or keep them elsewhere.
End of the Game
If you reach 10 VPs on your turn, the game ends 
immediately and you win.
Example: Orange has 2 settlements (2 VP), the Longest Road special 
card (2 VP), 2 cities (4 VP), and 2 victory point cards (2 VP). He reveals his 
2 victory point cards, giving him the 10 victory points needed to win. 
Harbors
Harbors are located along the coast. They allow you to trade resources more favorably. To 
control a harbor, you must build a settlement on one of 
the two intersections (circled in green) that border a harbor. 
See also “Maritime Trade”.
Important: If you have just built a settlement at a harbor, you can’t 
use the trade function of that harbor until the trade phase of your 
next turn (unless you are playing with the Combined Trade/Build 
Phase rule).
Intersections
Each terrain hex has 6 corners; each corner touches either 2 other 
terrain hexes, 1 other terrain hex and the coast, or just the coast. 
These corners are called intersections. You may only build settlements 
on intersections.
• You can break an opponent’s road by building a settlement on an unoccupied intersection along his road! (As 
always, you must observe the distance rule.)
 Example: Orange has the “Longest 
Road,” composed of 7 roads. Red 
builds the settlement marked with a 
black circle, thus interrupting 
Orange's road. Now Red owns the 
“Longest Road” (consisting of 6 roads) 
and, therefore, the corresponding 2 
victory points.
Please Note: Your own settlements / 
cities do not break your road!
• If, after a longest road is broken, multiple players have roads of equal length (they are tied), 
apply the following rule:
 If you are the current owner of the “Longest Road” special card and are one of the tied players, 
you keep the special card.
 If the owner of the “Longest road” special card is not among the tied players, set the card aside. It comes into 
play again when only 1 player has the “Longest Road.” 
Note: You also set the card aside if, after a longest road is broken, no player has a continuous chain of 5 or more 
roads (i.e., a “Longest road” no longer exists).
Knight Cards
If you play a knight card during your turn (before or after you roll and resolve the dice), you must immediately 
move the robber.
• You must move the robber away from his current location to any other terrain hex of your choice. 
• Then you steal 1 resource card from a player who has a settlement or city adjacent to that terrain hex. If 
there are two or more such players, you may choose your victim. 
• The player you elect to rob keeps his cards face down while you take 1 of his cards at random. 
• If you are the first player to have 3 knight cards face up in front of yourself, you take the 
“Largest Army” special card. This special card is worth 2 victory points. 
• As soon as another player has one face-up knight card more than you, 
he takes this special card from you and the 2 victory points that go 
with it.
Important: If anyone plays a knight card, 
you don’t have to check whether your hand 
contains more than 7 cards. You only do this 
when someone rolls a “7”.
Detailed Rules Explanation and Examples
ALMANAC

A
B
road
ALMANAC
Paths
Paths are defined as the edges where 
two hexes, or a hex and the coast, meet. 
Therefore, paths run along the border between 
terrain hexes or between terrain hexes and the coast. 
Only 1 road can be built 
on any path. Each path leads to 
an intersection where you might be 
able to build a settlement.
Progress Cards
Progress cards are a type of development card. You may only 
play 1 progress card on your turn. There are 2 progress cards each, 
of 3 varieties:
• Road Building: If you play this card, you may immediately place 2 roads for free (according to the normal 
build rules).
• Year of Plenty: If you play this card, you may immediately take any 2 resource cards of your choice from the 
supply stacks. If you have yet to conduct your build phase, you may use these resource cards to build.
• Monopoly: If you play this card, you must name 1 type of resource. All the other players must give you all of the 
resource cards of this type that they have in their hands. If an opponent does not have a resource card of the 
specified type, that opponent does not have to give you anything. If you have yet to conduct your build phase, 
you may use these resource cards to build.
Roads
Roads connect your settlements and cities. You create roads by building roads on paths. You may only build one 
road on each path (including coastal paths). You build a road either adjacent to an intersection occupied by one of 
your settlements or cities or on an unoccupied (empty) intersection that borders on one of your roads. You cannot 
build new settlements without building new roads. Roads only provide victory points if you hold the Longest Road 
special card.
Robber
The robber begins the game in the desert. You only move him if you have rolled a “7” or if you reveal a knight 
card. If you move the robber to a terrain hex, he prevents that hex from producing resources. Players with 
settlements and/or cities adjacent to the robber’s new hex receive no resources from this hex as long as the 
robber occupies it.
Rolling a “7” and Activating the Robber
If you roll a “7” for resource production, none of the players receive resources. Instead: 
1. Each player counts his/her resource cards. Any player with more than 7 resource cards (i.e., 8 or more) must select 
and discard half of them. Return discards to the supply stacks. If you hold an odd number of cards, round down 
(e.g., if you have 9 resource cards, discard 4 of them). 
Example: Blue rolls a “7.” He has only 6 resource cards in his hand. Red has 8 cards and White has 11. Red must 
discard 4 cards and White 5 (rounding down).
2. Then you (the player who rolled the “7”) must move the robber to any other terrain hex of your choice. This 
blocks the resource production of this hex.
3. After moving the robber, you also steal 1 resource card at random from a player who has a settlement or city 
adjacent to this hex. If 2 or more players have settlements or cities there, you may choose from which one to 
steal.
 Afterwards, your turn continues with the trade phase.
Example: White rolls a “7” on his turn. He must move the robber. 
White moves the robber from the hills hex to the forest hex marked 
with a “3.” He may steal a resource card from either player who has 
a settlement adjacent to this hex, Orange (A) or Blue (B). White 
steals the card at random from the player he chooses. If a “3” is 
rolled on subsequent turns, Orange and Blue receive no 
resource cards from this hex. This continues until a 
player rolls another “7” or plays a knight card 
and thus moves the robber.
Note: If you moved the robber, 
you should remember that 
you are supposed to 
steal a card if possible. However, any players affected by the 
robber are not forced to remind you of this fact.
See also Knight Cards.
Settlements
A settlement is worth 1 victory point. 
If you own a settlement, you may receive 
resource production from all its adjacent terrain 
hexes. If you have built your 5 settlements and want to 
build another settlement, you first must upgrade one of your 
settlements to a city. Return that settlement to your supply and 
replace it with a city. Now you can build a new settlement using the 
returned settlement.
Important: You must observe the distance rule when building a settlement—none of 
the 3 adjacent intersections may be occupied by any of the players’ settlement or city (not 
even yours). 
Set-up Phase
Begin the “set-up phase” after you build the game map (Set-up, Variable). 
• Each player chooses a color and receives the corresponding game pieces: 5 settlements, 4 cities, 15 roads, 
and 1 building costs card.
• Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks and put them face up into the two card holders.
• Shuffle the development cards and place them face-down in the last empty space of the card holder.
• Place the 2 special cards and the dice beside the board.
• Place the robber on the desert.
Each player rolls the dice. If you roll highest, you are the starting 
player and begin the game. Starting with you, each player in turn 
builds two sets of "settlement + adjoining road" combinations. Use 
the following order to build each player's first "settlement+road: 
Player 1, Player 2, Player 3, Player 4. Now use this turn order to 
build each player's second "settlement+road": Player 4, Player 3, 
Player 2, Player 1.
Important: When placing settlements, the distance rule always 
applies!
You receive your starting resources immediately after building your second settlement; for each terrain hex 
adjacent to your second settlement, you take a corresponding resource card from the supply. The starting player 
(the last to place his second settlement) begins the game: he rolls both dice for resource production.
Set-up, Variable
The 6 game board pieces are printed on both sides; in different combinations, they allow a variable set-up of the 
game board. The position of the pieces on the playing surface 
as well as their side can be chosen randomly. Start with a 
randomly chosen, large (4 terrain hexes) game board piece and 
place it in one of the 6 corners of the playing surface. The wa-
ter side must always border the edge of the playing surface. In 
a clockwise direction, place one of the small (2-3 terrain hexes) 
game board pieces adjacent to it. Then place the other game 
board pieces, always alternating large and small pieces, until 
the playing surface is completely covered.
Continues with the "Set-up Phase" (->).
Trade
After you roll for production, you may trade resources with 
the other players (Domestic Trade) or with the supply (Maritime trade). On your turn, you may trade as long as you 
have resource cards in your hand.
Trade, Domestic (Trade with opponents)
On your turn, you may trade resource cards with your opponents (after you have rolled for production). You 
and your opponents negotiate the terms of your trades—such as which cards, and how many will be 
exchanged. You are not allowed to give away cards (“trade” 0 cards for 1 or more cards).
Important: While it is your turn, you must be a part of all trades; the other players may 
not trade among themselves. 
Example: Red needs 1 brick to build a road. She has 2 wool and 3 ore. Red 
asks aloud: “Who will give me 1 brick for 1 ore?” Blue answers, “I’ll 
give you 1 brick if you give me 2 ore.” White interjects, “I’ll 
give you 1 brick if you give me 1 wool and 1 ore.” Red 
accepts White’s offer and trades 1 wool and 1 ore 
for 1 brick.
Important: In this example, White is 
not allowed to trade with Blue, 
since it’s Red’s turn.