eep within the jagged valley of the Forthstron mountain range, 
beyond the eastern desert in the land of Cimathue, stands the town 
of Stormtryne. This remote settlement was built on the site of a 
vast network of underground catacombs. These are the remnants of a lost 
civilization of warrior priests, the Urudhas, who possessed the secrets of 
Tlarnue, the enchanted lava dust. This dust is found naturally in nearby 
Dorill Cave and used as an alloy in the crafting of valuable amulets of 
fantastic potency. It is the Tlarnue that has attracted traders and craftsfolk 
to settle in the town despite fears and rumours of what may lurk in the 
dark, largely unexplored tunnels beneath it. As the town has expanded, 
infirmaries, inns, taverns and temples have all been built, overshadowed by 
Castle Mephoth. During the construction of the castle, the entrance to the 
catacomb was sealed and the townspeople eventually ignored its existence. 
 Politically, neighbouring city-states have shifted in their allegiances. 
However, Stormtryne has always been loyal to her majesty, the Raven 
Empress. Despite the inhospitable environment, peace and prosperity have 
prevailed, until now. Initially, claims that corpses were seen wandering in 
Bholoth Cemetery were dismissed. Fears rose as the obelisks in front of the 
temple of Yagotha were reported to be glowing with a pale amber light. The 
townsfolk now bar their doors and windows at night as shadowy creatures 
can be glimpsed wandering the deserted streets. There is a desperate effort 
to recruit a team of intrepid heroes to venture into the catacombs and 
discover what is happening below... 

Zombie
Wizard’s Shield
Wizard
Vampire
Bat
Troll
Thief
Spirit
Sorcerer’s Shield
Warrior
Explorer
Archer
Sewer Rat
x5 pieces
Roal
Raven 
Rakshasa
Pit Viper
Phantom
Owl Bear
Orc/
Swamp
Orc ***
Minotaur
Liquid
Ice Shot
Gorgon / Sorcerer
Scorpion
Gelatinous Cube
Flame 
Wraith
Spirit/
Firewall
Fireball/
Shot
Demon
Fenris
Dragon / Lich Lord
Crypt Spider/
Venomous
Spider***
Chicken
Champion
Cerberus
Centaur/
Savage 
Centaur ***
Boulder/
Giant Fireball
Shot
Bee 
Barbarian
Armoured
Beetle
x5 pieces
Armadillo
Cube Piece
Extra Small Pieces
Small Pieces
Medium Pieces
Large Pieces
In the top-left corner of 
the box, the size of the 
piece to be used will be 
filled in. In this case, a 
large piece is needed.
*** Sticker used in the Cavern of Soloth Expansion
Indicates how many pieces 
have the same stickers.
When a piece only requires 
a sticker on one side, one 
sticker will be in the box.
The colour of the wooden 
piece is shown by the 
colour of the box. In this 
case, an orange piece 
would be used.
When a piece requires a 
sticker on both sides, 
two stickers will be in the box.
Sticker Application Instructions
These arrows indicate that the 
bottom sticker is placed on the 
other side of the same piece.
Blood Skull
Extra
Large Medium
Large Small
Extra
Small
Sort the wooden pieces by size and colour. Firmly apply the stickers to the centre of the wooden pieces.

Hero Rule
And Portrait
Cards x12
Hero Ability
Cards x4
Hero Item
Cards x15
Hero Spell
Cards x15
Catacomb Lord 
Rule, Portrait 
And Setup
Cards x12
Cards x26
Devoured! 
Teleported! 
Poisoned! 
Cards x11
Room Cards x34
Hero Player Mats x4
Catacomb Lord Player Mat x1
Barrier Wall Segments x4
(x2 long, x2 short)
Health 
Trackers x8
(no stickers)
Obstacles x6
(no stickers)
Liquid Antient x1
Gold Coins x35 (no stickers)
Monsters
(Five families represented 
by five different colours: 
beige, blue, gray, green, 
orange)
Heroes x6
Catacomb Lords x2
(double sided)
Sorcerer’s
Shield x1
Wizard’s
Shield x1
Ice Shot x2
Fireball Shot x1
(Target Shot on reverse)
Giant Fireball Shot x1
(Boulder Shot on reverse)
Bite Shot x2
Shield Shot x2
Missile Shot x1
Game Boards x3
(double sided)
Gelatinous Cube x1
Familiars x4
133 Wooden Components 
6 dark brown extra large pieces 
21 large pieces (2 black, 5 blue, 1 gray, 
5 green, 4 orange, 1 beige, 1 dark red, 
2 purple) 
34 medium pieces (4 blue, 4 green, 
12 gray, 8 orange, 6 white)
7 small pieces (1 orange, 4 white, 2 light blue) 
29 extra small pieces (5 brown, 16 beige, 
8 dark red) 
1 green cube piece
35 gold coins / 15 platinum coins
When you are first learning Catacombs, it is 
advised to put aside the following cards until 
you are familiar with how the game works: 
Catacomb Lords: Hmotha The Lich Lord (all cards) /
Phoshar The Dragon (all cards)
Items: Cloak of Invisibility / Raisthrim’s Potion / 
Throwing Axe / Vaiel’s Urn
Monsters: Armoured Beetle / Fenris / Gelatinous 
Cube / Owl Bear / Pit Viper / Rakshasa / Roal / Sewer 
Rat / Vampire Bat
Rooms: Alewife Tavern / Amaranth Inn / 
Castle Mephoth / Sepulcher of the Sisters / 
Shannotul / The Athenoch Mortuary 
Spells: Cure Poison / Giant Fireball / Heal All / 
Ice Blast / Teleport Hero
Antient: Urthoth The Liquid Antient (one card) /
Devoured! (one card) / Poisoned! (all cards) /
Teleported! (one card)
Advanced Features of Catacombs
Components

Objective
Up to four players take control of four heroes (represented by wooden discs) that must fight their way through 
a series of rooms filled with monsters controlled by the Overseer player. Catacombs is a cooperative game with the 
heroes working together as a team and the Overseer ensuring that the game runs smoothly and is a fun experience for 
all players. The Heroic Forces are made up of heroes, allies and familiars. The Catacomb Lord’s Forces are made up of 
the Catacomb Lord and monsters. Battles are fought by skillfully flicking (otherwise known as shooting) different types 
of wooden pieces across the game boards that represent different rooms in the catacomb. If they survive all the rooms, 
the heroes face the object of their quest: a fight to the finish with the Catacomb Lord in its lair. You will need dexterity 
and practice to be victorious and save the town of Stormtryne.
Important Terms
 
Character - refers to heroes, allies, familiars, monsters, Catacomb Lords, and Antients. 
Teammate - refers to a character that is fighting on the same side. Heroes, allies and familiars are teammates. 
Catacomb Lords and monsters are teammates. Antients do not have teammates.
Turn - is when a character takes an action.
Round - is when all characters on the board have taken a turn. A round starts with all the Heroic Forces taking a 
turn and then all the Catacomb Lord’s Forces controlled by the Overseer take a turn.
Phase - there are four phases for each room: Exploration, Setup, Battle, and Resolution (see page 7).
The Sewer Tunnels
Fortress of Nale
Nothoru Crossing
Barothir
Swamp
Mitholaq Hive
Dorill Cave
Isthalle Portal
Scavewrym Pit
Bholoth
Cemetery
Sacthar 
Cenotaph
Pyramid
of Omens
Chalmor Arena
Chomatha
Bridge
Orsharsh
Graveyard
Shannotul
Flooded
Shrine
Larkwrayth Prison
Forge of
Gnoth
Tromsarth Hall
The Lava PoolsMoghath
Sagomot
Ashata
Krhlot
Wychward
Burrow
Zotha’s
Gatehouse
Xokarst Volcano
Temple
of Yagotha
Qurlathorm
Secret
Staircase
Alewife
Tavern
Phaoslay Realm
Malvarn
Grotto
Oakhearth
Hall
Athenoch
Mortuary
Castle
Mephoth
Matinya’s
Cellar
Covert
Monument
Amaranth
Inn
Vaiel’s 
Manse
Hall
Forthstron River
Ruined
Sanctuary
Lair of the Coramel
Abbos
Lookout
Bloodsworn Crypt
Nolothag
Dungeon
Town of
and surroundings
The Catacombs
Beneath 

One player must occupy the role of the Overseer who controls the Catacomb Lord and monsters who inhabit the 
dark places beneath Stormtryne. The Overseer sets the pace and tone of the game. Although he or she is trying to win 
by defeating all the heroes, the Overseer will want to make the game enjoyable for the other players as well. 
The remaining players control heroes according to the following rules:
5 players: 
Overseer, 4 players controlling 1 hero each
4 players: 
Overseer, 2 players controlling 1 hero each and 1 player controlling 2 heroes
3 players:
Overseer, 2 players controlling 2 heroes each
2 players: 
Overseer, 1 player controlling 4 heroes
Introducing The Heroes
As a group, the players choose which four heroes and which Catacomb Lord will be used in the game. Heroes are 
the brave characters who advance through the rooms of the catacomb, fighting monsters along the way. There are six 
heroes to choose from (though only four are used in a game at a time) and they are summarized below. For your first 
few games of Catacombs, it is recommended to use the Elf, Barbarian, Thief and Wizard.
Oleira the Elf can shoot at monsters from a safe distance using her Elven Arrow ability and is assisted 
by a Spirit Familiar (familiars are magical beings that can be purchased to help the heroes, see page 18). 
2.	
Xoric the Barbarian has the most health points, enabling him to survive close encounters with the enemy. He can also 
use his savage Berserker Battle Axe. 
3.	
Elani the Thief can make an additional rush shot to escape from dangerous situations. She receives one extra gold 
coin for each monster she slays. 
4.	 Varesh the Wizard has his Fireball Ability and a set of powerful spells at his disposal to assist the party. 
5.	
Marorg the Skeleton Explorer is a solid, all-round fighter who is immune to poison attacks.
6.	 Roosan the Chicken Champion is intended for experienced players and is particularly effective against shadow 
monsters with its Feathers of Fury ability. 
Introducing The Catacomb Lords
At the beginning of the game, one of the Catacomb Lords 
is chosen by the players. From weakest to strongest they 
are Vasesak the Sorcerer (able to defend himself with a magic 
shield), Shargila the Gorgon (can petrify her enemies), Hmotha 
the Lich Lord (can summon hordes of undead monsters) and 
Phoshar the Dragon (shoots deadly fireballs). Fighting the 
Sorcerer is recommended for new players. 
When the heroes arrive at the Catacomb Lord’s Lair after 
fighting their way through the rooms of the catacomb, the 
final battle begins. If the heroes defeat the Catacomb Lord, 
they win the game (see page 19 for more details).
Important: The 
Overseer is the 
final arbiter of
any disputes that 
may arise during 
the game.
The Overseer, The Heroes and Catacomb Lords
Shargila
Gorgon
Lich Lord
Phoshar
Dragon
Oleira the 
Xoric the
Barbarian
the Wizard
Elani the 
Thief
Marorg the
Skeleton Explorer
Roosan the
Chicken Champion

The Wizard
Fireball x1
Cure Poison x2
Drain Energy x2
Fireball x2
Heal x1
Ice Blast x2
Magic Missile x1
Shield x2
Teleport x1
Magic Missile
The players place a hero player mat in front of them 
for each hero they control and take the corresponding 
wooden hero piece and cards. All heroes have a minimum 
of two cards: a Portrait card (see icon “1”) which shows 
their name and class and a Rules card (see icon “2”) 
which shows their starting health (see icon “3”), base 
shot sequence (see icon “4”), any Ability, Spell and/or 
Item cards the hero starts the game with (see icon “5”), 
any special rules and whether the hero can use weapons, 
magic items or both (see icon “6”). 
Place the Hero Portrait and Rules cards in the spaces 
showing a Hero card back on the player mat. If the hero 
has any other cards, place them on the mat as well. Ability 
cards go in the section with the Ability card back (see 
icon “7”) and Spells and Items go in the section with their 
corresponding card backs (see icon “8”). There are also 
spaces to place Poison cards as they are accumulated (see 
icon “9”) and Ally Rules cards (see icon “10”). 
Players put a health tracker on the blood drop of the 
hero health track (see icon “11”) that corresponds to that 
hero’s starting health indicated on their Hero Rules’ card. 
If available, heroes must start with all Ability and 
Spell cards listed on their Rules cards. However if, for any 
reason, there are not enough Spell cards, the players may 
distribute them among heroes capable of using spells as 
they see fit. As only the Wizard can use Spell cards in the 
base Catacombs game, this is only an issue that may arise 
when playing with any expansion content. Players may 
choose if they would like to start the game with any listed 
Item cards. 
Hero Player Mats

Preparing the Play Area: Arranging Components For Your First Game
1.	 As mentioned previously, the players decide as a group which Catacomb Lord they are to 
face. For the first game, it is recommended to choose Vasesak The Sorcerer.
2.	 The Overseer then takes the Catacomb Lord player mat, appropriate Catacomb Lord 
piece and associated cards. There are three cards for every Catacomb Lord: a Portrait, 
Setup and Rules card (see page 19 for more details). 
3.	 The Overseer shuffles the deck of Item cards and places them off to one side. 
4.	 Poison is designed for experienced players, it is strongly recommended not to play with this 
feature while learning the game. Put the deck of Poison cards to one side.
5.	 The Devoured! and Teleported! cards are placed off to one side face-up, though they will not be 
used during this first game.
6.	 The monster pieces are placed near the Overseer. This is the Monster Pool. 
7.	 Place the gold coins beside the Monster Pool. This is the Treasury. It is recommended that 
inexperienced players start the game with five gold coins for each hero character.
8.	 The players put their player mats in front of them to organize their Hero Portrait, Rule, Ability 
and Spell cards. At a minimum, all heroes have a Hero Portrait card and a Hero Rule card. The 
latter card will indicate if the hero also starts the game with any Ability, Spell or Item cards. It is 
recommended that the players choose to play with the Barbarian, Elf, Thief and Wizard heroes 
for their first game.
9.	 Each hero starts with a specific amount of health which is shown in the red blood drop in the top 
right of a Hero Rules card. As the hero gains or loses health points, the health tracker is moved 
up or down the blood drop health track. A hero’s health can never exceed its maximum value. 
10.	 The missile, shield, fireball and ice shot pieces will be shared by all players.
11.	 Room cards represent encounters with monsters lurking in the catacomb and places where the 
heroes can get help in their quest. Arrange the Room cards suggested above in a vertical column 
as shown to the right.
12.	 The Sorcerer Catacomb Lord has hired mercenaries to assist him (Skeleton Warriors in his case). 
When you see one or more “question mark” icons on any Room card, you will substitute a Skeleton 
Warrior for it during the Setup Phase (see page 15 for more about Mercenary Monsters). 
Preparing The Play Area
The Overseer must make sure there is adequate space 
on the table for the game board and barrier walls. He or 
she chooses the first game board and places it in the centre 
of the table. The dark brown wooden obstacle pieces are 
inserted into the holes in the board. 
Each board has a starting area for the heroes 
represented by a hero icon. This is called the Hero Start 
Zone and is in front of the players controlling the four 
heroes. There is also a large starting area for the monsters 
represented by the Catacomb Lord icon. This end of the 
board must be in front of the Overseer and is called the 
Monster Start Zone. 
Preparing the Play Area: Assembling The Barrier Walls
To assemble the barrier walls, unfold all four pieces 
and attach them by interconnecting the notches at each 
end. Once attached, the pieces will form a continuous 
barrier around the entire board. The player mats and all 
other components are placed outside of the barrier walls. 
The game board must be centered within the barrier walls. 
This space between the board and the walls is called the 
Shadow Realm. 
When playing Catacombs 
for the first time, use 
the following sequence 
of room cards: Bholoth 
Cemetery (0), The Outer 
Bailey (0), Merchant, 
Stormtryne Hall (1), 
Moghath (1), Healer, 
Catacomb Lord’s Lair.
Bholoth Cemetery
Lord’s Lair
Healer
Merchant
Difficulty 0
Difficulty 0
Monster Icon=
After playing a few 
games, see page 24 
for suggestions on 
how to setup the 
Room cards in 
different ways.

During the Exploration Phase the Overseer does the following:
Starting from the top (the card closest to the heroes), the Overseer flips the next unrevealed Room card (see icon 
“1”, facing page). If the heroes have reached the Catacomb Lord’s Lair Special Room card, then the final battle 
begins (see page 19).
Game Phases: The Journey Through the Catacomb
Each Room card presents a new challenge for the heroes as they fight for their lives against the monsters deployed 
by the Overseer. For each room they encounter, the Overseer guides the other players through the following Phases: 
1. Exploration
2. Setup
3. Battle
4. Resolution
The Exploration Phase
The Battle Phase
During the Setup Phase the Overseer performs the following steps:
Chooses a game board and places it on the table, centered within the barrier walls. The same side of a board cannot 
be used for two consecutive rooms except in the case of the Catacomb Lord’s board which is shown on the Catacomb 
Lord Setup card (see icon “2”, facing page).
Fills the circular holes in the game board with the extra large dark brown obstacle pieces (see icon “3”, facing page).
Finds the Monster cards from the Monster deck for each monster displayed on the Room card (Bholoth Cemetery 
in the diagram at right) and places them beside the game board for the players to examine. These cards show what 
shots each monster can perform among other details (see icon “4”, facing page).
Gathers the appropriate type and number of monster pieces to be used from the Monster Pool (two Orcs and three 
Skeleton Warriors in the example at right) (see icon “5”, facing page).
Places these monsters pieces within any legal location of the Monster Start Zone (see icon “6”, facing page). 
The players then place their hero, ally or familiar pieces anywhere behind the line delineating the Hero Start Zone 
(see icon “7”, facing page). The room is now ready to play.
The Setup Phase
The Battle Phase for each room is where the 
majority of the action takes place when playing a game 
of Catacombs. It consists of at least one round during 
which each hero takes a turn and then the Overseer 
responds by taking turns with each of the monsters in 
the room. It is important to remember that a turn is 
the action a character takes. A round is complete when 
all the Heroic Forces and all the Catacomb Lord Forces 
have taken a turn. These actions typically require skill 
and dexterity on the part of the players as they shoot 
their hero pieces around the board. 
When playing as one or more of the heroes, your turn 
during the Battle Phase consists of one of two possible 
alternatives:
1. Performing the basic shot sequence on the given Hero’s 
Rules card. In the vast majority of cases, this is one melee shot.
2. Playing a card (typically an Ability, Item or Spell card).
Assuming at least one hero survived the Battle Phase, 
the Resolution Phase begins. Each hero that is still alive 
is given an amount of gold equal to the total value of 
the monsters they destroyed during the Battle Phase. 
The amount of gold each monster is worth is printed on 
the Monster card (see page 18). The monster pieces are 
then returned to the Monster Pool. For example, Varesh 
the Wizard destroyed two Skeleton Warriors (worth one 
gold coin each as indicated on the Skeleton Warrior’s 
Monster card) and one Minotaur (worth two gold coins), 
so he would collect four gold coins in total and then 
return the monster pieces to the Monster Pool.
After the Resolution Phase is complete, play 
continues by returning to the Exploration Phase. If the 
heroes have survived to the Catacomb Lord Special 
Room card, then the final battle begins.
The Resolution Phase
Item Card
Spell Card
Ability Card

The Elf
Oleira
Spirit Familiar
The Wizard
Fireball x1
Cure Poison x2
Drain Energy x2
Fireball x2
Heal x1
Ice Blast x2
Magic Missile x1
Shield x2
Teleport x1
The Thief receives 1 gold coin 
bonus for each monster killed 
by her in a given room. This 
also applies when she’s hired 
as an ally.
The Thief
Berserker Battle Axe
The Barbarian
As an Ally, the Barbarian 
starts with 5 health points.
Berserker Battle Axe x2
Elven Arrow x2
Spirit Familiar x1
Oleira
CATACOMB LORD
The Sorcerer
Magic Missile
Bholoth Cemetery
Orc
Berserker Battle Axe
DEVOURED!
TELEPORTED!
Setup Diagram
Treasury
Shadow Realm
Room Cards
Ranged Shot Pieces
Monster Pool
Hero Player Mats
Catacomb Lord Player Mat
Barrier Walls
Pieces
Monster Start Zone
Poison,
Monster,
Item
Card
Decks
Cards for this 
Room
(Bholoth 
Cemetery)
If any obstacles are 
displaced from the 
board during play, 
immediately 
put them back.
The supply of pieces and cards 
represent hard limits in the 
game. For example, if there are 
no more coins in the Treasury, 
then the Heroes don’t collect 
any gold during the Resolution 
Phase. Another example: if there 
is no monster of a particular 
type available in the Monster 
Pool, then the Overseer cannot 
use that monster.
Hero Start Zone

The heroes always take their turns first during the 
Battle Phase. Rounds continue until all the monsters in 
the room have been destroyed or all the heroes are dead.
1.	 The players take their turns by performing one action 
for each hero. There is no set order for which hero 
goes first: players are encouraged to confer amongst 
themselves to decide who should perform their action 
next. An action is considered to be either a hero’s shot 
sequence which is found on the Hero Rules card (see 
icon “1”), or playing an Item, Spell or Ability card (see 
icon “2”, facing page), but not both (unless rules on a 
card override this condition or a hero is using a Combo 
item). 
2.	 Once all the players have performed an action with the 
heroes, the Overseer takes a turn for each monster. 
These actions are the shot 
sequences described on 
the Monster cards. 
3.	 Once all the monsters 
have taken a turn, the 
round is over. At the end 
of the round, the heroes 
assess any additional end 
of round effects that may 
have occurred. This could 
be coming out of a stunned state (see page 13 for 
details) or losing additional points of health from bite 
shots (see page 22 for details). 
4.	 A new round then begins with the heroes taking their 
turns again.
Ranged Shot Type Icons And Pieces 
Missile Fireball
Boulder
As an Ally, the Barbarian 
starts with 5 health points.
Berserker Battle Axe x21
Any special rules 
described on a card 
take precedence 
over the basic 
rules found in this 
manual.
Battle Phase: Basic Shot Types
As Catacombs is a dexterity based game, 
there are several different shots that can be 
performed which represent actions that the 
heroes and monsters engage in as they battle 
in the tunnels below Stormtryne. 
A melee shot is the most basic shot type. 
It is performed by shooting the appropriate 
piece with the controlling player’s finger 
across the board (see icon “3”) and is meant 
to simulate a hero or monster charging into 
battle. An unmodified melee shot does one 
point of damage. 
A rush shot is performed exactly like a melee shot; however no damage 
is inflicted (see icon “4”, facing page). The shot’s name suggests haste, thus 
there is no opportunity to engage in hand-to-hand combat. 
If a piece leaves the board as the result of any shot, simply place it back on the 
edge of the board at the point where it left. No shot can result in a piece ending 
up on top of another piece - including obstacles. If this happens, the player who 
took the shot is responsible for moving the piece to the nearest possible location 
on the board where it is able to lay completely flat. A piece must always end a 
shot in a legal location on the board. It will take time and practice to master 
how to shoot the various discs in the game effectively.
Battle Phase: Ranged Shot Types
Whereas melee and rush shots involve shooting actual 
character pieces (heroes, monsters etc.), all ranged shot 
types use a separate wooden piece. 
For example, a missile shot indicates that a missile 
piece is used instead of the character piece itself and 
represents an arrow being fired or a spell being cast. A 
missile shot piece is placed anywhere within 2.5 cm (1”) 
of the character and then shot across the board (see icon 
“5”). It inflicts one point of damage if it hits a target and 
is removed from the board when completed. 
The Battle Phase: In Depth
Battle Phase: Turn Order
Melee
Rush
 = 0 damage

A fireball shot is a ranged shot type that 
behaves the same as a missile shot except 
the fireball piece is shot instead. 
Other ranged shots are discussed in the 
Advanced Shot Types section on page 21.
Shield Shot Icons And Pieces
Wizard 
Battle Phase: Shield Shots
A shield shot functions identically to the missile shot, but the 
specified shield piece is shot instead. This shot represents the 
character pushing an enemy away with their shield and does 
no damage. Directly after the character’s turn is finished (all 
other shots in their shot sequence are completed), the shield 
piece is repositioned to any legal location within 2.5 cm (1”) of 
the shield’s owner for their protection. Beyond this point, the 
shield piece is not under its owner’s control unless they can 
perform another shield shot. Shield pieces are removed from 
the board when their owner dies or when the Battle Phase 
ends. Certain heroes (the Wizard), monsters (Swordmaster 
Ghoul) and Catacomb Lords (the Sorcerer) can perform shield 
shots.
Battle Phase: Shot Modifiers
Some shots can be modified so that an additional effect occurs when a target is hit and/or damaged. Example of shot 
modifiers are: critical (target suffers an extra point of damage), stun (hero piece is flipped and becomes stunned) and 
poison (hero draws a Poison card). See the Shot Modifiers section on page 12.
Battle Phase: Hits, Damage and Character Death
The Heroic Forces and Catacomb Lord’s Forces are trying to inflict 
damage on each other. Each time a character is damaged, they lose 
health points. The damage can come from being directly hit with 
character or ranged shot pieces or in the case of the Heroic Forces, 
hitting a fire wall (see page 13) or losing health points due to a condition 
such as the bite shot (see page 22). 
When a hero’s shot successfully hits a monster piece then 
that monster is considered to have taken damage. For example, 
Elani the Thief performs a melee shot and hits a Skeleton Warrior. 
Since the melee shot does one point of damage and the Skeleton 
Warrior only has one health point it is removed from the board. 
It is then placed on the Thief’s player mat and the Thief’s action for her 
turn is completed. 
Multiple targets can be damaged by a single shot provided the shot 
hits them directly. For example, a hero’s melee shot can ricochet off a 
Troll (inflicting one point of damage in the process) then hit a Skeleton 
Warrior (again inflicting one point of damage) (see icon “6”). If a hero’s 
melee shot strikes a Troll who is then pushed into a Zombie, no damage 
is inflicted on the Zombie, because the hero did not hit the Zombie 
directly (see icon “7”). 
Finally, it is possible for a character to damage multiple targets who 
are adjacent to each other simultaneously (see icon “8”).

When a hero, ally, level 4 monster or Catacomb Lord 
is damaged, move the track marker on the corresponding 
health track of their player mat down the required number 
of blood drops (see icon “1”). 
If a monster with two health points (as shown on its 
Monster card) takes one health point of damage, then 
it is flipped over in place on the board, showing a black 
background. It will take one more successful hit to destroy a 
monster in this damaged state (see icon “2”). For example, 
Oleira the Elf plays her Ability card to shoot a missile shot 
at a Troll who has two health points and is undamaged. The 
Elf successfully hits the Troll and the Troll is now damaged 
with one health point remaining. The Overseer flips over 
the Troll in place to indicate this condition. As explained 
earlier, if a monster has one health point, it is immediately 
removed from the board and placed on the player mat of 
the hero that killed it (see icon “3”). 
Battle Phase: Hero Death 
If a hero’s health track reaches the skull icon, or “0”, 
on their player mat, they are dead. The hero’s piece, any 
shield pieces and/or any familiar pieces are removed from 
the board. Any Poison cards associated with the dead hero 
are shuffled back into the poison deck and any monsters 
they have killed are returned to the Monster Pool. At this 
point, that hero is out of the game unless the remaining 
heroes reach Althea the Healer and resurrect the dead 
hero (see page 16). Due to this possibility, the dead hero 
retains control of any spells, gold coins and or items that 
he or she has collected. Dead heroes may not use their 
gold coins or offer them to other players in any special 
room until successfully resurrected.
It is important to note that there is no “friendly fire”: 
heroes, allies and familiars cannot damage each other in 
any way. In the same fashion, monsters and Catacomb 
Lords cannot damage each other either.
Icon
Hero Icon
All Icon
+ +
+ +
Do not flip
Reduce health track
Flip when
damaged
Destroyed 
when damaged
Hero Icon
Heroes can play different cards during their turn as 
stated above. Here are the essential features of each card. 
Spell cards can only be used by spell casters. In the base 
Catacombs game, the Wizard is the only hero who starts 
with a set of Spell cards. A Spell card can only be played 
once per game and once used is discarded permanently. 
There are no exceptions to this rule. 
Some heroes begin the game with Ability cards. An 
Ability card is specific to a particular hero and can only 
be used once during the Battle Phase of a room. After it 
has been used, it is flipped over face down to indicate this 
condition and is refreshed (flipped face up) during the 
Setup Phase of the next room. 
In the base Catacombs game, Item cards are purchased 
from Izchak the Merchant or won at the Alewife Tavern. 
Most items can be used by any hero; however there are 
some which are restricted to a specific hero or only those 
heroes who can wield weapons. These restrictions are 
listed on the Item card. Item cards are either played once 
per game (like Spell cards), once per room (like Ability 
cards) or are considered permanent. This is represented 
by an icon on the Item card in the lower right corner (see 
page 17). In summary:
Spell cards are always used only once 
per game.
Ability cards are always used once 
per room.
Item cards can be used either: once 
per game, once per room or are 
considered to be permanent. 
When played, a card’s effects only 
apply to the card’s owner unless the 
hero icon appears on the card. In 
that case, the player controlling that 
hero can choose to apply the effect 
to the owner of the card as normal 
or another hero or ally. For example, 
Varesh the Wizard has a Cure Poison 
Spell card. The player controlling 
the Wizard can choose to apply that effect to the Wizard 
himself and remove a Poison card or choose another hero 
affected by poison and cure them instead.
Battle Phase: Playing Ability, Item or Spell Cards
Battle Phase: Healing Damage
Healing can restore a hero or ally’s health. In addition to visiting 
Althea the Healer or the Alewife Tavern, cards that can heal have the 
following symbols on them. Each heal icon on a card indicates that when 
played, the owner of the card can heal themselves by increasing their 
health track by one. When conjoined with the hero icon, the owner of a 
card can choose any living hero or ally to heal. There is also the Heal All 
icon. When Heal All is used, all heroes and allies still alive (including the 
owner of the card) recover one point of health. In general, a character’s 
health may not be increased beyond its starting level.

Chain Shot Modifier Example
“Then” Icon
“Or” Icon
Melee Shot THEN Melee 
Shot OR Missile Shot
Missile Shot THEN 
Missile Shot
Battle Phase: Shot Sequences
In some cases a card will indicate that multiple shots can be performed in a row. 
This is called a shot sequence and is represented by the “Then” icon between each 
shot. In the first example (indicated by icon “1”), a player would perform a missile 
shot, then immediately perform a second missile shot as part of the same turn. In 
some cases, a player must choose which shot or shot sequence to perform from two 
possible alternatives. This is represented by the “Or” icon between the shot icons. 
A player must declare which shot they are choosing before performing it. In the 
second example (indicated by icon “2”), a player would choose to perform either a 
melee shot then a melee shot or only a missile shot, but not both shot sequences. 
If, for any reason, a player cannot perform part of their shot sequence, that 
part is ignored and the player moves on to the next part. However, a player must 
complete all parts of a given shot sequence if they are able to do so.
Battle Phase: Conclusion
Once all the monsters in the room have been destroyed, frozen or a combination 
of the two, the room is complete and the Battle Phase ends and the Resolution 
Phase begins. Heroes are freed from the Devoured! and Teleported! cards and if 
stunned or bitten return to their normal state. All other pieces such as obstacles, 
shields and fire walls are removed from the board. 
As their name suggests, shot modifiers change the 
shot being performed, typically by enabling an additional 
effect. For example, a poison modifier applied to the basic 
melee shot means that in addition to inflicting damage, 
the shot will now also poison a target. Basic shot types 
are represented as a white icon on a black circle. When a 
modifier has been applied, the shot icon will be filled with 
a different colour. Although they do not inflict damage, 
shot modifiers can be applied to rush shots. In this case, a 
target hit with such a shot suffers no damage as normal; 
however the modifier’s effect would be applied. In the case 
where a modified shot hits multiple targets, the modifier 
is applied to all hit targets unless noted otherwise. For 
example, the critical, corrosion, fear, poison, regeneration 
and stun shot modifiers affect multiple targets while the 
chain and petrify modifiers do not.
Chain Shot Modifier (yellow): 
chain 
shot 
modifier 
indicates that the same target 
cannot be damaged consecutively in a shot sequence 
and does not appear in combination with any other shot 
modifier. If the same target is hit twice consecutively, 
damage that would have been inflicted by the second hit 
is ignored. 
For example, if Xoric the Barbarian plays the Berserker 
Battle Axe Item card, he can perform four melee shots in 
a row; however they cannot damage the same monster or 
Catacomb Lord consecutively. Therefore, the Barbarian 
could hit a Zombie (destroying it), then hit a Troll (it is 
damaged and flips over in place on the board), then hit a 
Fire Spirit (destroying 
it) and then hit the 
same damaged Troll 
again (finally destroying it). By preventing damage being 
applied consecutively, the chain shot modifier ensures that 
damage from a particular shot sequence is distributed 
across several targets. 
Note that ranged shots with the chain modifier always 
originate from the location of the character performing 
them.
Corrosion Shot Modifier (brown): If a hero is hit 
with a corrosion shot modifier, one of their Item 
cards is destroyed. The player shuffles the affected 
hero’s Item cards. One Item card is drawn randomly and is 
discarded from the game. Any pieces associated with it on 
the board are removed. If the affected hero does not have 
any items, then this modifier has no effect. 
Critical Shot Modifier (red): The critical 
shot modifier increases the damage 
inflicted by the base shot by one point.
Fear Shot Modifier (white): The fear shot 
modifier forces an affected character 
to lose their courage and run away. The attacker who 
damages a target with the fear shot modifier, may 
immediately perform a single, unmodifiable rush shot 
with that affected hero (including those that are stunned), 
ally, familiar or monster piece. 
Shot Modifiers

Fire Wall Icon
Petrify Shot Modifier (gray): When a character is 
hit with the petrify shot modifier, they are turned 
to stone. The character is dead and are removed 
from the board, no matter how much health they have 
remaining. Note that if multiple characters are hit, only 
one is affected by the petrify shot modifier (all characters 
still take damage). The player performing the shot decides 
which one is turned to stone.
Poison Shot Modifier (green): 
Some monster attacks not 
only result in loss of health 
points, but are also poisonous. When a hero is hit by 
a poison shot modifier, they first must decrease their 
health by one point (if applicable). Then, the appropriate 
number of Poison cards are drawn from the poison deck 
and placed face up on the affected hero’s player mat. 
As they are damaged by poison shots, the Poison cards 
accumulate. If at any time, the total value of all the Poison 
cards accumulated equals or exceeds the starting health 
of that hero, then they are overwhelmed by the poison and 
die (see page 20 for more about poison). 
Regeneration Shot Modifier (pink): 
Regeneration is when health is stolen 
from an enemy. The regeneration shot 
modifier enables a character to restore one point of health 
after successfully damaging an enemy. Only one point of 
health is restored even if multiple targets are damaged. 
A character can never exceed their maximum starting 
health. 
For example, a Troll that is already in the damaged state 
successfully damages Elani the Thief with its regeneration 
melee shot. The Thief suffers one point of damage and 
the Troll’s piece is flipped back over to its normal state 
because it has regained one point of health. Another 
example, Varesh the Wizard has three health points. He 
plays a Drain Energy Spell card and performs a missile 
shot with the regeneration modifier against a Zombie. 
The Zombie is destroyed (it lost one health point) and 
the Wizard’s health is increased by one to four. Note the 
regeneration shot modifier is ineffective against Antients 
and shadow monsters.
Stun Shot Modifier (blue): 
Shots with the stun modifier 
leave a hero temporarily 
stunned for one full round of the Battle Phase. When hit, 
the stunned hero piece is flipped over in place on the 
board to the dark blue side. This indicates that the hero is 
stunned. Stunned heroes cannot take any actions. At the 
end of the next round, the hero piece is flipped back over 
to a normal state. 
For example, the Ghoul’s shot sequence includes a stun 
melee shot modifier. If it hits Oleira the Elf with this shot, 
she loses one point of health and her piece flips over to 
the stunned state (dark blue side of their piece). At the 
beginning of the next round of the Battle Phase, the Elf 
is still stunned and can take no action including playing 
any cards (missing a turn). After the three heroes who 
are not stunned have completed their actions, it is the 
Overseer’s turn again. The Overseer performs an action 
for all the monsters in the room. Note that since the Elf is 
still stunned, she can be damaged but cannot be stunned 
again. When all monsters have completed their actions, 
the round is over and any stunned hero pieces are flipped 
back over (to the white side of their piece). Those heroes 
start the next round as normal. 
If there is only one hero left and they are stunned, the 
hero misses their next turn and it is again the Overseer’s 
turn to perform actions for all the monsters on the board. 
At the end of this round, the hero goes back to his or her 
normal state. If a hero is stunned and has a familiar (see 
page 18) in play, the player controlling the hero can still 
perform the familiar’s action in that round. However, in 
the case of the Raven Familiar, no spells can be cast from 
its location while its owner is stunned. If a hero is stunned 
and all others are dead, the stunned hero continues 
playing when he or she returns to a normal state. Note 
that only heroes can be stunned.
Transform Shot Modifier (purple): When a 
monster with the transform shot modifier 
inflicts damage, it transforms into the form 
indicated below the shot sequence. In the base Catacombs 
game, only one monster can perform this type of modified 
shot: the Fire Spirit. After the Overseer performs this shot 
and damages one of the Heroic Forces, the Fire Spirit piece 
is flipped over and becomes a fire wall. It remains in this 
form for the remainder of the room and is treated like an 
obstacle. Thus fire walls cannot be controlled further by 
the Overseer and do not count as monsters in the room. 
As a burning sphere of flame, it will inflict one health 
point of damage to any 
of the Heroic Forces 
who come into contact 
with it in any way: 
directly or indirectly. 
If a fire wall is pushed 
off the board, return 
it to the point where it 
departed as normal. 
 

Nullifies
Reflects
x3
The Vermin Hovel
Some characters can be protected with “defensive 
properties” which can prevent damage from specific 
shots and/or the effects of specific shot modifiers from 
occurring.
Nullifying Shots: Some characters can nullify basic shots 
which prevents any damage from being inflicted and 
any shot modifiers from taking effect (the modifiers are 
ignored). For example, a Skeleton Warrior monster has 
a missile shot icon in its Nullifies box. This means that it 
won’t suffer any damage from any basic missile shot or 
any modified missile shot (including the critical modifier). 
To destroy the Skeleton Warrior, the heroes could use a 
melee shot or fireball shot, but missile shots are completely 
ineffective. 
The Nullifies box for the Fire Demon monster contains 
a basic missile shot, ice shot and a fireball shot, so in many 
cases the heroes will be forced to use melee shots to defeat 
it. Marorg the Skeleton Explorer’s Hero Rule card has a 
Nullifies box that contains 
poison melee, poison missile 
and poison rush shot icons. 
Marorg is only protected 
from being damaged by these 
modified shots specifically. 
The effect of their poison 
modifier is ignored as well, 
effectively 
ensuring 
that 
Marorg is immune from the effects of poison.
Reflecting Shots: Reflected shots behave the same as those 
that have been nullified with the exception that one (and 
only one) point of damage is reflected back at the attacker 
initiating the shot. For example, the Minotaur can reflect 
missile shots. If a hero shoots a missile shot against it, 
that missile shot is nullified and one point of damage is 
reflected back at the attacking character.
When a Nullifies or Reflects box appears on an Antient 
card, a Catacomb Lord Rules card, a Hero Rules card, a 
Monster card or Item card with the frequency condition of 
“permanent” (see page 18), no action is required on the 
part of the player, as all shot icons in that box will be nul-
lified and/or reflected automatically. When a Nullifies or 
Reflects box appears on an Ability card or Item card with 
the “Once per room” frequency condition, then the player 
affected by a given shot may choose when to use the card 
to be protected from the shot icons in the box. The card 
is flipped over and is refreshed (flipped face up) during 
the Setup phase of the next room. Finally when a Nullifies 
or Reflects box appears on a Spell card or Item card with 
the “Once per game” frequency condition, then the player 
affected by a given shot must choose when to use the card 
to be protected from the shot icons in the box, after which 
the card is discarded.
Protecting Characters (Defensive Properties)
Room cards represent an encounter for the heroes within a game of 
Catacombs. There are two types of Room cards: Battle, where the 
Heroic Forces fight the monsters in the catacomb and Special, where 
the heroes can buy items, heal themselves, test their luck and recruit 
allies. 
Battle Room Cards
Battle Room cards show the Overseer how to populate a room 
with monsters. Each card will have the following information:
Room name: the name of this room (see icon “1”).
Room difficulty: difficulty 0 rooms are the easiest while difficulty 2 rooms are the most challenging (see icon “2”).
Suppresses Box: some rooms have restrictions on what types of shots and/or shot modifiers may be used (see icon 
“3”). This effect is called suppression (see page 16). 
Quadrants: Four quadrants which group monsters to be placed on the board during the Setup Phase by their 
respective level (1 to 4) (see icon “4”). 
There are three ways that show the Overseer which monsters to place in the Monster Start Zone during the Setup 
Phase: Specific Monster icons, Mercenary Monster icons and Monster Metre icons. Some Room cards have quadrants 
populated with a combination of these three ways (indicated by icon “1” on next page). 
Room Cards

The Cavern of Torhak
Specific Monster icons: The specific monster and number of 
pieces to be used is shown in one or more quadrants of the 
Room card. In the case of icon “2”, the Overseer takes 4 
Orcs (level 1), 1 Troll (level 2) and 1 Pit Viper (level 2) from 
the Monster Pool and places them in the Monster Start 
Zone on the board. 
Mercenary Monster icons: The Setup card for the current 
Catacomb Lord will indicate to the Overseer which level 
1 monster should be used when a Mercenary Monster 
icon appears in the top left quadrant of a Room card. For 
example, when fighting through Hmotha the Lich Lord’s 
catacomb, the Mercenary Monster is a Zombie (see icon 
“3”). In this case, if a Room card has four Mercenary 
Monster icons on it (like the one indicated by icon “4”), 
then the Overseer would take four Zombies from the 
Monster Pool and place them on the board in the Monster 
Start Zone.
Monster Metre Icons: The Battle Room card has Monster 
Metre icons in any of the four quadrants. These icons give 
the Overseer the most freedom and strategic flexibility 
in choosing the monsters that will populate a room. For 
each Monster Metre icon, a monster of the specified level 
from any family (colour) is chosen. At 
the same time, the Overseer decides 
how many pieces available for that 
monster are placed in the Monster 
Start Zone. The usual answer, to keep 
things simple and to keep the game 
moving, is all of them. However, in 
some cases, it is advisable for the 
Overseer not to deploy 
all the monster pieces 
available for a specific 
monster. If a monster is 
used in summon shots, 
the Overseer may want to 
hold one or more pieces 
back in the Monster Pool 
enabling that monster 
to be summoned later 
during the Battle Phase. 
For an example of this 
process, on the Room card indicated by icon “5” there are 
two Monster Metre icons 
x2 in the first quadrant. This 
means the Overseer chooses two level 1 monsters from 
any monster family. This could be Zombies and Fire Spirits, 
resulting in eight pieces being placed on the board (all four 
Zombie and all four Fire Spirit pieces) or Orcs and Armoured 
Beetles resulting in nine 
pieces on the board (all 
four Orcs and all five 
Armoured 
Beetles). 
Two monsters from the 
same family may also 
be chosen. For example, 
Zombies and Skeleton 
Warriors would result in 
eight pieces on the board 
(all four Zombie and four 
Skeleton Warrior pieces) 
from the Undead (gray) 
family. 
In the room indicated by icon “6” there are three 
levels of monsters the Overseer must choose. A level 2 
Monster Icon=
Krhlot
The Mitholaq Hive
The Barracks
Monster Metre
Icon Examples
Qurlathorm

Althea the Healer
Suppresses
Special Room Cards
When encountered during the Exploration Phase, Special Room 
cards enable the heroes to obtain various benefits in exchange for 
the gold coins they have collected during preceding Resolution 
Phases. 
Special Room Card: Althea the Healer
Althea the Healer offers rest and relief to the heroes. She will 
cure one Poison card for free. As a group, the players decide which 
hero will be able to discard a Poison card and shuffle it into the 
Poison card deck. 
She also enables the heroes to obtain the following services in 
exchange for an offering:
Service
Cost
Effect
Heal Hero 
or Ally
3 gold coins
One health point is restored to the hero or ally. Move the health tracker up 
the respective health track on the hero’s player mat by one blood drop.
Cure 
2 gold coins
A hero is cured of one Poison card (see page 20).
Resurrect 
Hero
10 gold coins
One dead hero is brought back to life with two health points and cured of 
all poison. The hero returns to life with all of his or her gold coins and any 
unused Item and/or Spell cards. They may pay to be healed further by the 
Healer. The resurrected hero starts playing in the next room.
 
Multiple services can be purchased from the Healer. Players may pool their gold coins in order to make offerings 
for her services. Allies can be healed by the Healer, but not resurrected.
Suppression is a condition where a character is 
prevented from performing a certain type of shot and/
or modifier in some rooms. This is expressed on a Room 
card by the icons for the suppressed shots being listed 
in a Suppresses box. If an unmodified shot is listed, that 
means that shot type and all its modified versions are 
suppressed for the duration of that room. For example, 
if an unmodified missile shot is listed in the Suppresses 
box, that means no missile shots modified or unmodified 
can be performed by either the Heroic Forces or the 
Overseer. Critical missile shot modifiers, chain missile 
shot modifiers, poison missile shot modifiers, etc. are 
all suppressed too. If a specific modified shot is listed, 
only the modifier is suppressed, not the basic shot. 
For example, if a stun missile 
shot modifier is listed in the 
Suppresses box only the stun 
modifier is suppressed. This 
would mean that the Overseer, 
when 
controlling 
the 
Crypt 
Spider monster, would treat it as 
having unmodified missile shots 
in its shot sequence as opposed 
to those with the stun modifier.
Battle Room Cards: Suppression
up to 4 Skeleton Warriors...
up to 4 Zombies or...
up to 4 Centaurs (among 
other options)
For each level 1 Monster Metre
icon the Overseer could choose:
monster 
x1 , two level 3 monsters 
x2 and a level 4 
monster 
x1 must be chosen to populate the room. 
This could be two Skeleton Archers (level 2), two Fire 
Demons (level 3), two Vampire Bats (level 3) and the 
Gelatinous Cube (level 4). Or, two Trolls (level 2), two 
Giant Scorpions (level 3), two Ghouls (level 3) and the 
Owl Bear (level 4). 
As an alternative, it is possible to have the monsters 
for each Monster Metre icon be determined randomly. 
Each Monster card has a corresponding Monster Metre 
icon on the back. If, for example, the Overseer is required 
to place a level 2 monster 
x1 , 
shuffle all the Monster cards 
with a level two Monster Metre 
on the back and reveal the top 
card. That monster would be 
placed by the Overseer in the 
Monster Start Zone. Repeat this 
process for any other Monster 
Metre icons on the given Room 
card.

When the heroes arrive at Izchak the Merchant during 
the Exploration Phase, they may use their gold to buy 
items to aid them in their quest. The Overseer shuffles the 
deck of Item cards and flips over six cards for the players 
to examine. These items are available for purchase or the 
players can pay two gold coins to see the next card on 
the top of the Item card deck. There is no limit as to how 
many times they may do this. Any player can purchase any 
number of the revealed Item cards provided they meet the 
requirements. Players may pool their gold coins to assist in 
the purchase of items. When an item has been purchased, 
the gold coins are returned to the Treasury. The Item card 
is assigned to the hero by placing it in the designated area 
on the hero’s player mat. 
As an additional service, a map may be purchased from 
the Merchant by any hero for two gold coins. When the 
map is paid for, all 
the Room cards 
in the catacomb 
are flipped over, 
thus revealing the 
path leading to the 
Catacomb Lord. 
The Thief receives 1 gold coin 
bonus for each monster killed 
by her in a given room. This 
also applies when she’s hired 
as an ally.
Weapon
Magic
Item
+ + +
Healing Salve
Magic Quiver
Helm of Rage
:
Poisoned Knife
Once per room, 
the Elf can 
refresh both her 
Ability cards 
during the 
Battle Phase.
Izchak the Merchant
In the base Catacombs game, items to help the heroes 
in their quest can be purchased from Izchak The Merchant 
or won at the Alewife Tavern. There is no restriction as to 
how many items a hero can carry. Items cannot be used 
when a hero is stunned unless the item is a familiar (see 
facing page). Only the hero who owns the item may use it 
and items cannot be given away or traded. Furthermore, 
allies cannot buy or use items. Some heroes start the 
game equipped with items already. For example, Xoric 
the Barbarian’s Hero Rules card indicates he begins the 
game with two Berserker Battle Axe items. Note the 
player controlling him is not obligated to take these items; 
however it is the default choice in most cases. Leaving 
certain items available to be acquired later by different 
heroes is strategically more relevant when playing with 
expansions. There are restrictions on which heroes can 
use which items and these are detailed on the Item cards: 
Any hero: Some items are available to any hero (see 
icon “1”).
Specific hero: Some items can only be purchased and 
used by specific heroes (see icon “2”).
Specific conditions: Some items can only be used by 
heroes with a specific condition, for example a certain 
amount of starting health (see icon “3”).
Heroes that can wield weapons: Items that are 
Special Room Card: Izchak the Merchant
weapons are identified with this symbol: 
 (see icon 
“4”). This symbol also appears on the Hero rules card if a hero is able to purchase and wield weapons (see icon “5”). 
If a hero cannot, the symbol appears like this: 
 . 
Heroes that can cast spells: Magic items can only be bought and used by heroes who can cast spells and are 
identified with the symbol 
 (see icon “7”, facing page). This same symbol is used on the 
Hero Rules card. If a hero can cast spells, the symbol will appear normally. If a hero cannot, 
it will appear like this 
. For example, Elani the Thief can purchase and wield weapons, 
therefore she can buy the Poisoned Knife item. However as she cannot cast spells, she cannot 
purchase the Raven Familiar item.
Item Cards: Hero Specific Enhancements
Some heroes are more proficient at using certain items. A hero’s face on an Item card 
designates an enhanced shot sequence that is only available to them when using that 
particular item (see icon “6”).
Item Cards

Item Cards: Frequency Conditions
	
There are three types of condition for how many times an item can 
be used during the game. 
Once Per Game: The item can only be used once during the game 
(typically during the Battle Phase of a room) and is then discarded and 
removed from the game. It cannot be purchased or used again. 
2.	
Once Per Room: The item can be used once every Battle Phase and is 
flipped over face down to represent this. The Item card is refreshed 
(flipped face up) during the Setup Phase. 
3.	
Permanent: Once acquired, the item is always in play and does not 
require a specific action to take effect. 
Once Per
Game
Once Per
Room
Permanent
Spells can be cast from the 
Familiar’s location instead 
of its owner’s.
Raven Familiar
All heroes can purchase and use familiar items 
provided they fulfill the conditions appropriate to a given 
familiar. For example, as a magic item, the Raven Familiar 
can only be purchased by a hero that can cast spells. In the 
Setup Phase, the familiar is placed within 2.5 cm (1”) of the 
hero who controls it. The player can choose whether the 
hero or familiar performs their action first. The familiar 
performs its shot sequence every round until it dies or 
until the room is cleared. It stays with the hero for the 
entire game, returning to its owner’s side in the Setup 
Phase of every room. Familiars are used to help heroes 
but there are significant differences between what they 
can do. Familiars cannot earn gold for directly destroying 
monsters (their owners do not receive any gold). They 
cannot be poisoned or stunned; however they can be 
devoured and teleported.
In addition to these points, a hero can only have one 
familiar item maximum. 
If the hero controlling 
a familiar is stunned, 
bitten 
or 
devoured, 
then the hero cannot 
take an action (as 
normal); however, the 
familiar is still able to 
do so. When a hero 
dies, 
their 
familiar 
is removed from the 
board and is also out 
of the game (along with 
their other items). If a 
familiar dies during the 
Battle Phase, it is removed from the board but rejoins its 
owner in the Setup Phase of the next room. 
Item Cards: Familiars
Monsters populate every battle room the heroes must clear in order 
to reach their final foe, the dreaded Catacomb Lord. During the Battle 
Phase, the Overseer controls all the monsters on the board. Like the 
heroes, each monster takes one turn per round of the Battle Phase. 
There are five monster families: Dungeon (green), Infernal (orange), 
Mythological (blue), Undead (gray) and Vermin (beige). Each Monster 
card has the following information:
Health: Indicates how much health a monster has (see icon “1”). 
Monsters have between one and four health points. Monsters 
with four points of health have a health track on their cards 
(see icon “2”). 
Reward: Shows how many gold coins a hero collects in the Resolution 
Phase for destroying this monster (see icon “3”).
Monster Metre: Shows what family a monster belongs to (by the colour) and what level it is (by how many circles are 
filled in on the metre). Level 1 monsters are the weakest and Level 4 are the strongest (see icon “4”).
Defensive Properties: Some monsters have defensive properties (see icon “5”) (see page 14).
Shot Sequences: Summarizes what shots the Overseer can perform with this monster (see icon “6”). 
Shadow monsters (such as the Phantom) come from 
the Shadow Realm (the space between the board and 
barrier walls). Instead of a solid blood health drop icon on 
their Monster cards, they have a dotted one as shown to 
the right. 
They cannot be killed by inflicting 
normal damage. Instead they must be 
pushed by any direct shot completely 
off the board to return them to the 
Shadow Realm. 
Shadow
Health Icon
Monster Cards: Shadow Monsters
Crypt Spider
Monster Cards

monsters that act as its 
minions. Take the monsters 
shown on the card from the 
Monster Pool and place them 
in the Monster Start Zone 
during the Setup Phase of 
the Catacomb Lord’s Lair 
Special Room along with the 
Catacomb Lord piece itself 
(see icon “5”). Monsters 
killed during the Battle Phase 
with the Catacomb Lord are 
placed on a hero’s player mat 
as normal.
monster: 
As 
explained in the Room card 
section of the rules (see page 
15), the Mercenary Monster 
specified on a particular 
Catacomb Lord’s Setup card is substituted one for 
one with any Mercenary Monster icons that appear on 
Room cards during the Setup Phase (see icon “6”).
The Rules card shows the shot sequences that can be 
performed by the Catacomb Lord. Most Catacomb Lords 
have multiple shot sequences to choose from (separated 
by a black horizontal bar), but only one may be performed 
per round of the Battle Phase (see icon “7”).
Catacomb Lords can only be damaged by melee, roll or 
ranged shots (that inflict damage) from the Heroic Forces 
and/or Antients. They are immune to 
the effects of all shot modifiers except 
chain, critical and regeneration. Their 
own shots cannot be suppressed. 
Finally, they can teleport and travel 
through magic portals.
Winning The Game: Heroes
If the heroes eliminate all of the Catacomb Lord’s 
health and at least one hero in the party remains alive, 
they are victorious and win the game. Unlike the previous 
battle rooms, it is not necessary to destroy all the 
Catacomb Lord’s minions. Only the Catacomb Lord itself 
must be destroyed to win.
Winning The Game: Overseer
 
If at any time during any Battle Phase, all four 
heroes are killed and/or unable to take an action 
(examples: affected by the bite shot, trapped on 
the Devoured! card) then the game is over and the 
Overseer wins.
CATACOMB LORD
The Lich Lord
Skeleton Archer
When the heroes arrive at the Catacomb Lord’s Lair Special Room card during the 
Exploration Phase, their final battle of the game starts. The Overseer controls the 
Catacomb Lord and its squad of minions. 
Each Catacomb Lord has three cards: a Portrait card (see icon “1”), a Setup card, 
and a Rules card. Arrange the three cards on the Catacomb Lord player mat along 
with the Monster cards for any minions. 
The Setup card indicates how to configure the Catacomb Lord: 
Starting Health: The white number inside the blood drop indicates the maximum health the Catacomb Lord starts 
the game with (see icon “2”). Place a health tracker on that numbered blood drop on the Overseer player mat (see 
icon “3”).
Game board: Image of which 
game board is to be used for 
the final battle (see icon “4”).
Type and number of minions: 
Each Catacomb Lord has 
The Final Battle: Fighting The Catacomb Lord
Winning
Lords cannot
be frozen by 
the ice shot.

POISONED!
POISONED!
=8
Draw one
Poison card
Draw two
Poison cards
Combo Item Example: 
Take normal turn THEN
perform Missile Shot
Shot sequence 
performed on 
Combo Item card 
BEFORE hero’s 
turn.
Shot sequence 
performed on 
Combo Item card 
AFTER hero’s turn.
The use of poison by the Overseer can make the game 
considerably more difficult and is recommended only for 
expert players. A Poison card displays a number indicating 
the strength of the dose. When a hero is hit by a poison 
shot modifier, they first must decrease their health if the 
shot inflicts damage. Then the number of Poison cards 
shown beside the shot icon are drawn from the Poison 
card deck and placed on the affected 
hero’s player mat. If at any time, the 
total value of all the Poison cards 
accumulated equals or exceeds the 
starting health of that hero, then 
they are overwhelmed by the poison 
and die.
For example, the Sewer Rat hits 
Varesh the Wizard with its poison 
melee shot. The Wizard loses one 
point of health (because it is a melee 
shot) and then draws one Poison 
card. The Poison card has a value of 
“3” on it. Unfortunately, the Wizard has three Poison cards 
with a total of five already. With the addition of the “3” 
Poison card, the total amount of poison equals his total 
starting health of eight. The Wizard dies and the Poison 
cards are removed from his player mat and shuffled back 
into the Poison card deck. In the unlikely event that no 
Poison cards are available to draw, the affected hero is 
considered to have been hit with a lethal dose and dies. 
Stunned heroes can still be poisoned.
Advanced Concept: Poison Cards 
Advanced Concept: Combo Items
Combo items are an advanced feature of Catacombs that enable players to 
combine the effects of certain Item cards to expand what actions a hero can 
perform during their turn of the Battle Phase. Recall that when controlling a 
hero, you can either perform the shot on the Hero Rules card or play an Ability, 
Item or Spell card. A Combo item is a special type of Item card that can be 
played either immediately before (a pre-Combo item) or immediately after (a 
post-Combo item) the hero’s normal turn.
This condition is indicated in the item’s shot sequence by the “...” icon either 
before or after the “Then” icon. 
For example, if Elani the 
Thief has the Raisthrim’s Potion Combo item, on her turn she can play 
that card to first perform an ice shot and then immediately perform the 
shot sequence listed on her Hero Rules card or play another Ability, Item 
or Spell card. Another example: if Xoric the Barbarian has the Throwing 
Axe Combo item, he can perform the shot sequence listed on his Hero 
Rules card or play an Ability, Spell or Item card and then immediately 
play the Throwing Axe Combo item card to perform a missile shot. Only 
one Combo item card may be played per turn either before or after the 
hero’s action.
Poison Cards: Curing Poison
In the base Catacombs game, there are three ways for the heroes to cure themselves of poison: 
1.	 Playing Cure Poison Spell cards (during the Battle Phase of any room, the Wizard may play these cards to 
cure himself or another hero).
2.	 Visiting Althea the Healer for her “Cure Poison” service (see page 16).
3.	 Testing their luck at the Alewife Tavern (see page 24). 
A hero may discard one Poison card of their choice when being cured of poison which is immediately shuffled 
back into the Poison card deck.
Advanced Concepts
=8

Advanced Concept: 
Teleportation
Teleportation is when a 
character is transported tem-
porarily from the room and 
then returns in a different 
place of their choosing on 
their next turn. Teleportation 
takes place over two rounds 
of the Battle Phase. A hero 
will execute a Teleport as part 
of a shot sequence and the 
target character that is being 
teleported will have its piece 
removed from the board and 
put on the Teleported! card 
which is adjacent to the outside 
edge of the barrier walls. 
During the next round of the 
Battle Phase, the hero comes 
back into play by placing their 
character 
piece 
anywhere 
around the edge of the board 
and 
performing 
a 
single 
melee shot. This melee shot 
represents the hero returning to the battle and can be 
followed with a post-Combo item if desired. This is the end 
of the teleported hero’s turn during that 
round of the Battle Phase. For example, 
Varesh the Wizard uses the Teleport Spell 
card to leave the room. His wooden piece 
is placed on the Teleported! card. In the 
next round, he is returned to the game 
board and performs a single melee shot 
(thus, teleporting back onto the board). 
On his following turn, his action returns 
to normal. While on the Teleported! card, 
a character cannot suffer damage or die. The act of tele-
porting helps characters recover from being stunned, 
bitten and frozen: bite and ice shot pieces are immediate-
ly removed. If all other heroes are dead and one remains 
on the Teleported! card, that hero may teleport back onto 
the board and continue fighting. The same is true for 
monsters and Catacomb Lords. This implies that the Battle 
Phase continues while monsters and/or Catacomb Lords 
are on the Teleported! card and none remain on the board 
itself. A character who is stunned, bitten or frozen cannot 
teleport themselves. However, they can be teleported by 
another character. A character must be teleported back 
into play on their next turn. They may not hide for multiple 
turns on the Teleported! card. No combat occurs between 
any monsters and heroes that are on the Teleported! card 
at the same time.
TELEPORTED!
Teleport
First Round
Second Round
Open Portal 
Icon
Teleport Icon
During the Battle Phase, a hero or Catacomb Lord 
can open a magic portal to switch the positions of any 
two characters on the board (including themselves). 
This includes allies and familiars. Unlike Teleportation, 
no pieces leave the board, their positions (including any 
conditions) are simply switched. For example, Elani the 
Thief only has one point of health left and is surrounded by 
monsters. Vysara the Sorceress (from the Cavern of Soloth 
expansion) uses her Open Portal 
Ability card to switch the position of 
the Thief and Xoric the Barbarian. A 
player may only switch the positions 
of two of their own teammates: a 
hero cannot change positions with 
a monster and a Catacomb Lord 
cannot change positions with a hero.
Giant Fireball Shot and Boulder Shot (ranged): The giant 
fireball shot and boulder shot are powerful ranged shots 
that function identically to the missile shot; however, the 
appropriate side of the large, orange piece is shot instead. 
Advanced Concept: Magic Portals 
Advanced Concept: Advanced Shot Types
Giant Fireball 
= 2 damage
Boulder
= 3 damage

Ice Shot (ranged): Ice shots are a ranged shot using the small, light blue 
ice shot piece. When a character is struck by an ice shot, it does not take 
any damage but is considered to be frozen. Place the ice shot piece 
on top of the affected character piece. If multiple targets are hit by an 
ice shot, only one is affected: the player performing the shot decides 
which one will be frozen. While frozen, a character cannot take any 
actions, does not take damage and any of their defensive properties 
are suspended. They must remain in place on the board with the ice 
shot piece placed on top of them. A frozen character can only be freed 
when the ice shot piece is knocked off by another shot, either directly or 
indirectly (the ice shot piece is immediately removed from the board). 
Heroes must be careful not to knock the ice shot piece off a frozen 
monster. If all other monsters in a room are dead and any remain 
frozen, the room is complete and the heroes move on to the Resolution 
Phase. The player who froze a monster collects gold for freezing it the 
same way they would if it had been destroyed. 
Catacomb Lords and Antients are not affected by the ice shot. 
Ice Blast
Before Ice Shot
After Ice Shot - target is frozen
DEVOURED!
Target Shot (ranged): The target shot is a ranged shot that 
functions similarly to a missile shot, but a character can 
shoot a second time if the first shot misses. The target 
must be declared prior to shooting the first shot. If the 
target is not hit, a second shot may be taken from the 
last legal position where the first shot ended. The target 
shot inflicts one point of damage to the stated target only; 
damage to other characters is ignored.
Bite Shot (Overseer only): When hit by a bite shot, one 
point of damage is immediately inflicted as normal to 
any affected targets. For all targets that are still alive, 
the Overseer chooses one that the bite shot piece is 
placed on top of. A character that has been bitten 
cannot take any actions and can only be freed when 
the bite shot piece is knocked off by another shot, 
either directly or indirectly. When the bite shot piece 
is knocked off, it is immediately removed from the 
board. The Overseer must be careful not to knock the 
piece off accidentally, freeing an affected hero, ally or 
familiar. If at the end of the next round the bite piece has 
not been knocked off, another point of health is deducted 
from the affected target. One point of health is lost at the 
end of every further round that the bite shot piece stays in 
place. Note that stunned heroes cannot be affected by the 
bite shot (being stunned is crippling enough).
Devour Shot (Overseer only): When hit by a devour shot, 
the hero, ally or familiar immediately takes one point of 
damage. If they are still alive, they are removed from the 
board and placed on the Devoured! card. While fighting for 
life in the monster’s stomach, a character that has been 
devoured cannot take any actions and are considered to 
be removed from the game. All devoured characters are 
released once the room is completed successfully or the 
monster is destroyed. In the latter case, all characters are 
returned to the place on the board where the monster was 
destroyed, ready to take their turn as normal. If multiple 
characters are hit by a devour shot, all take damage; 
however only one is devoured: the Overseer decides which 
one will be sent to the Devoured! card. 
Multiple characters can 
be placed on the Devoured! 
card at the same time, but 
each one has to be hit by a 
separate devour shot. When 
a character is devoured, 
the effects of the stun shot 
modifier and the bite shot 
are cancelled (flip a stunned 
hero back over or remove the 
bite shot piece). Note that 
trapped characters cannot be 
teleported off the Devoured! 
card. 
= 0 damage

Roll Shot: The roll shot is performed by 
placing the character piece on its side, 
and rolling it across the board. In order 
to inflict damage, the rolling character 
must make contact with an enemy target 
when it comes to a complete stop, either 
hitting or partially covering another piece. In the latter 
case, ensure the character that performed the roll shot 
finishes the shot laying flat in a legal location on the board. 
If a rolling character leaves the board, simply place it back 
on the edge of the board (laying flat) at the point where it 
left as normal. An unmodified roll shot does two points of 
damage. If two characters are hit by a roll shot, only one 
is affected: the player performing the shot decides which 
one.
Summon Shot: Summon shots enable new characters to be 
brought into play during the Battle Phase. A summon shot 
is performed in the same way as any other ranged shot 
except that the character piece (for example, a monster or 
Antient) specified in the shot sequence of the summoning 
character is used instead. This initial shot represents the 
summoning process and is treated like a standard ranged 
shot that inflicts one point of damage (regardless of any 
other shots the character being summoned may have in its 
shot sequence). The character that has been summoned 
can immediately be controlled as normal after 
the summoning character’s shot sequence is 
complete. In the case of monsters specifically, 
the monster piece being summoned must be 
available from the Monster Pool. 
Advanced Concept: Amaranth Inn Special Room 
And Allies
The Amaranth Inn allows heroes to meet 
and recruit an ally to fight alongside them 
through the catacomb. When the heroes 
arrive at the Inn, any hero that is not being 
used in the game may be recruited as an ally 
at a cost of ten gold coins. To do so, place 
all the unused Hero Portrait cards face down 
and shuffle them together. Randomly draw one 
card: this is the ally that may be recruited. If the 
players choose to proceed, they may pool 
their gold to pay the required fee to the 
Treasury. 
One player will control the ally and 
assign it to assist one of the heroes he or 
she controls. Place the Portrait and Rules 
cards on the appropriate hero player mat 
in the section labelled with the ally icon. 
Unless otherwise stated on their Rules card, allies have a 
maximum health of four. Use the health track beside the 
ally section on the player mat to track their health (shown 
to the left). Allies use the shot sequence printed on their 
Rules card as normal. Importantly, allies cannot start 
with, buy, acquire or use any Item or Spell cards listed on 
their Heroes Rules card; however, they do start with one 
less of their total Ability cards (minimum one). The player 
recruiting the ally can choose which Ability card the ally 
will use. For example, Oleira the Elf starts with two Elven 
Arrow Ability cards as a hero. When she is recruited as 
an ally, she will only start with one of these cards (one 
less Ability card, minimum one) and may not use the Spirit 
Familiar item. A second example: Varesh the Wizard starts 
with one Fireball Ability card as a hero. When recruited as 
an ally, he may use this one Ability card; however he is not 
permitted to use any of his Spell cards. 
During the Setup Phase, an ally is placed in the Hero 
Start Zone along with the other heroes. The player who 
recruited the ally takes a turn for both the hero and ally 
during each round in any order. Allies function much the 
same way as heroes: they can be teleported and devoured. 
They can damage and destroy monsters and Catacomb 
Lords. When they lose all their health points, they die and 
are removed from the game. However, there are significant 
differences between a hero and an ally. Allies cannot buy or 
use items, use spells, be stunned, poisoned or resurrected. 
They cannot earn gold for destroying monsters: all gold 
goes to the hero whom the ally was assigned to assist. 
If a hero dies and their ally is still on the board, control 
of the ally passes to the hero with the lowest current health 
(regardless of maximum starting health). If two heroes are 
tied for lowest health, the hero who has the least gold of 
the two will get the ally. If there is still a tie, the hero with 
the fewest items gets the ally. If all the heroes are dead, 
the game is over, even if there is an ally still on the board 
during the Battle Phase.
Amaranth Inn
Ally Icon
Summon Shot Type Examples
Warrior
Level 1,2 
or 3 Blue
Spirit
Liquid
Roll
= 2 damage

Alewife Tavern
Advanced Concept: Alewife Tavern Special Room
At the Alewife Tavern, players can test their luck to win items, regain health or be cured of poison. The Overseer 
places all the Orcs, Fire Spirits, Centaurs and four hero pieces in an opaque bag. To place a bet, a player must pay two 
gold coins. Then they pull three pieces from the bag and consult the following table of rewards from top to bottom to 
see if they have won.
Pieces Pulled from the Bag
Rewards
3 Heroes
Gain full health for the chosen hero and their ally (if he or she has 
one) OR cure all Poison cards assigned to one hero.
3 of a kind
Take an Item card of your choice from the item deck.
2 Hero pieces
Blindly draw 1 Item card (player must take first item they can use).
3 different coloured pieces
Gain 1 health point OR cure 1 Poison card.
1 Hero piece
Gain 1 gold coin from the Treasury.
Replace the pieces in the bag before placing another wager. Each player 
can bet as many times as they like, as long as they have sufficient gold to do 
so. Players may pool their gold in order to place a wager. Players indicate 
which hero is gambling for each wager and only that hero wins any rewards 
which are paid out and applied immediately. Winning players may choose a 
reward that is lower on the table than the one they qualified for. All gold lost 
by the heroes is returned to the Treasury. 
Advanced Concept: Alternate Room Card Layouts
The Room card layout suggested in the “Preparing the 
Play Area” section (page 6), describes a static sequence 
of Room cards suitable for the first few games. As players 
get more familiar with the mechanics of Catacombs, they 
will want to experiment with different Room card layouts 
for a greater challenge, variety and to play with some of 
the advanced rules. Here is one suggested layout that is 
configured randomly. The Overseer takes the Battle Room 
cards and sorts them into three decks according to their 
difficulty (0, 1 or 2) which is indicated in the top right 
corner of each card. Each deck is shuffled and then the 
Room cards are laid out face down in a vertical column 
as shown to the right. Changing the number and order of 
these cards will vary both the difficulty and the length of 
the game. In addition, there are ways to decide 
which Special Room cards (Healer, Inn, Merchant 
or Tavern) to include in a game (perhaps all of 
them!) and in what order to place them: player’s 
choice and random. The former method allows 
the players to choose which Special Room cards 
they would like included in the game and in what 
order. The random method is the most challenging 
style of play. The Overseer shuffles the Special 
Room cards and places them randomly in each 
Special Room card slot. Players will not see which 
Special Room card is in the game until they reveal 
it during the Exploration Phase. The Catacomb 
Lord’s Lair Special Room card is always placed 
last, face up. 
Advanced Concept: The Gelatinous Cube Monster
Round 1:
Corrosion
Round 2:
Round 3:
Round 4:
Critical
Round 5 (sequence 
restarts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Gelatinous Cube is a powerful level 4 monster from 
the Dungeon family. Uniquely, it can perform a different 
shot sequence for each round of the Battle Phase. To 
perform this shot sequence, the Overseer starts by taking 
a melee shot and then a melee shot with the corrosion shot 
modifier (the corrosion melee shot icon should already be 
visible on the top of the Cube). During the next round of 
the Battle Phase, the Overseer again takes a melee shot 
and then rotates the Cube piece 
to reveal the fear melee shot 
icon, which is then performed. 
The Overseer continues through 
the Battle Phase performing a 
different shot sequence each 
round. The order of the shot 
sequences is as follows:
Lord’s Lair
Difficulty 0
Difficulty 2

Antients 
are 
powerful, 
unpredictable and immortal 
beings that have existed in the 
darkest depths of Cimathue 
for eons. They typically enter 
play by the heroes playing an 
Item or Spell card. In the base 
Catacombs game, a hero playing the Item 
card “Vaiel’s Urn” can summon Urthoth the 
Liquid Antient. During the Battle Phase, an 
Antient is introduced onto the board with 
a summon shot (see page 23) and persists 
for the remainder of the room. Antients 
do not suffer damage and thus cannot be 
destroyed. Antients are immune to the 
effects of all shots and all shot modifiers and cannot, for 
example, be affected by fear, bitten, devoured, frozen, 
petrified, poisoned, teleported or have their own shots 
suppressed. As they have no health, the regeneration 
shot modifier has no effect when used against them. An 
Antient is controlled first by the player that summoned it. 
It is not loyal to one side, however. Once that player’s turn 
is over, the Antient card is handed to the Overseer. Control 
of the Antient passes back and forth between the Heroic 
Forces and the Overseer until the room has been cleared 
(all monsters have been destroyed) or all the heroes are 
dead. Antients can be used strategically by the heroes to 
eliminate tough monsters and weaken Catacomb Lords; 
however when controlled by the Overseer they represent 
formidable opponents. 
To illustrate, during the Battle Phase, Oleira the Elf plays 
the Vaiel’s Urn Item card to summon the Liquid Antient. The 
Liquid Antient piece is placed within 2.5 cm (1”) of Oleira 
and the player performs a summon shot with it, bringing 
it into play. When Oleira’s turn is complete, the player 
controlling her can then take control of the Liquid Antient 
first and use its shots against the remaining monsters in 
the room. The Antient card is then handed to the Overseer. 
During the Overseer’s turn, he or she controls the Antient 
and performs its shot sequence against the Heroic Forces. 
Upon completion of the Overseer’s turn, the Antient card 
is handed back to the players controlling the heroes who 
can decide who will use it. This process continues until the 
Battle Phase for this particular room has been completed 
at which point, any Antients leave the game during the 
Resolution Phase. Note that it is possible for more than 
one Antient to be summoned into play at one time.
Advanced Concept: Variant Monsters
To provide a greater challenge, monsters can have 
alternate forms. These are called variant monsters and are 
identified by the ‘V’ icon appearing on their Monster card. 
The Overseer decides if a variant 
monster will be used instead of the 
original, which will be replaced for 
the entire game. Monsters and their 
variants share the same wood piece, 
only the Monster cards differ.
v
Swordmaster Ghoul
Adrián Patricio Gracia Rodríguez
Advanced Concept: Antients
Advanced Concept: Monster Vulnerabilities
These rules describe vulnerabilities for each monster family which can help make Catacombs easier for new players. 
Note these rules do not override any defensive properties that individual monsters in a given family may have.
Dungeon family monsters (green) are vulnerable to missile shots: treat any unmodified missile shot from the heroic 
forces that strikes a member of the dungeon family as having the critical modifier.
Infernal family monsters (orange) are vulnerable to the ice shot with their health being reduced by one extra point in 
addition to being frozen (if they remain alive).
Mythological family monsters (blue) are vulnerable in hand-to-hand combat. Treat any unmodified melee shot from the 
heroic forces as having the regeneration modifier.
Undead family monsters (gray) are vulnerable to the fireball shot: treat any unmodified fireball shot from the heroic 
forces as having the critical modifier. In addition, undead monsters are vulnerable to fire walls and fire obstacles 
(from the Cavern of Soloth expansion), taking one point of damage when hitting them or being pushed into them.
Vermin family monsters (beige) that are extra small in size (Sewer Rats, Armoured Beetles, Pit Vipers, Vampire Bats) 
are susceptible to fear: treat any unmodified melee or missile shot from the heroic forces as having the fear modifier, 
unless the target monster itself has a shot with the fear modifier in its sequence (the Blood Skull).
Variant 
Monster Icon
v
Antients cannot 
be damaged or 
suppressed and 
are immune to the 
effects of all shots 
and modifiers.

Draw indicated number of poison cards
Deduct indicated amount of health
Hero is stunned
Shot Reference
Switch the places of 
two friendly pieces 
on the board.
* Not used in base Catacombs game
Basic Shots
Ranged Shots
Modified Missile Shots
Modified Melee Shots
Modified Rush Shots
Advanced Shot Types
Shield Shots
Summon Monster Shot
Roll Shots
Chain Shot Modifiers
No consecutive damage to the same 
target. Example:
Teleport
Open Portal*
Only affects
one target.
Only affects one target.
Overseer only.
Reposition shield piece after 
shot sequence is complete.
Only affects one target.
Modifier
only 
affects
one 
target.
Repeat*
Summon any level
1,2 or 3 blue monster*
Liquid Antient
Melee
Rush
Boulder*
Fireball*
Critical*
Regeneration
Critical
Regeneration
Transform
Petrify
Corrosion
Place piece on 
Teleported! 
card. Next turn, 
melee shot back 
on to board.
Fire Spirit
Summon Shots
Change form to fire wall
Increase health by one point
Instant death for the affected character
Target Hit
Shot Does
Damage?
Damage
Nullified?
Calculate
Damage
To Target
Still Alive?
Destroyed
Shot Has 
Modifier?
Apply Modifier
To Target
End
Modifier 
Nullified?
Hit Damage Chart

AVAILABLE
NOW!
COMING
SOON!
Ability and Spell cards .................
Advanced Shot Types ....................
Alewife Tavern ..............................
Allies .............................................
Althea The Healer ........................
Amaranth Inn ...............................
Antients ........................................
Basic Shot Types ...........................
Battle Phase .................................
Battle Room cards ........................
Catacomb Lords ............................
Character Death ...........................
Combo Items ................................
Components .................................
Defensive Properties ...................
Exploration Phase ........................
Familiars .......................................
Healing Damage ...........................
Heroes ..........................................
Hits and Damage ..........................
Game Phases ................................
Game Setup ..................................
Gelatinous Cube Monster .............
Important Terms ..........................
Item Cards ....................................
Izchak The Merchant ....................
Magic Portals ...............................
Mercenary Monsters ....................
Monster Cards ..............................
Overseer .......................................
Player Mats ..................................
Poison Shot Modifier ...................
Ranged Shot Types ......................
Resolution Phase .........................
Room Cards ..................................
Setup Diagram .............................
Setup Phase .................................
Shadow Monsters ........................
Shadow Realm .............................
Shield Shots .................................
Shot Modifiers .............................
Shot Sequences ...........................
Special Room Cards .....................
Stun Shot Modifier .......................
Suppression .................................
Teleportation ...............................
Variant Monsters .........................
Weapons and Magic Items ...........
Winning (heroes) .........................
Winning (overseer) ......................
21-23
9, 10
7, 9-12
6, 14-16, 24
3-4, 6, 19
10-11
11, 16
10-11
6, 8
17-18
6, 15, 19
3-4
5, 19
13, 20
9-10
6, 14-16, 24
6, 18
12-13
16-17, 23-24
Index
Lead Designer for Third Edition: Aron West
Illustrator and Graphic Designer: Kwanchai Moriya
Manual Editor: Aron West
Manual Layout: Mark Campbell
Operations Manager: Hiba Yokhana
Proofreaders: Christian Busch, Leon Scheuber, Magda Mizgalewicz
Visit us at www.elzra.com | shop.elzra.com
For Customer Support Please Visit: support.elzra.com
Twitter: @ElzraGames @CatacombsGame
BoardGameGeek: bitly.com/catacombs3e
Catacombs: Third Edition © 2015 Elzra Corp.
Catacombs: Third Edition English Manual Version 2.0
Catacombs uses the Dexterity Game System™
Catacombs™ and the Dexterity Game System™ are trademarks of Elzra Corp.
Special Thanks to Ryan Amos and Marc Kelsey 
(co-designers of the original edition)
Special Thanks to Una & Phil
Thanks to Blake, Carsten, Christina, Dirk, Jackie, James, 
Laurel, Meaghan, Rich, Thibs
THANK YOU TO ALL OUR KICKSTARTER BACKERS
Catacombs: Third Edition is dedicated to the memory of April Star
The exciting expansion, Cavern of Soloth, is available
now. It features six new heroes, four challenging 
Catacombs Lords, tougher monsters and much more. 
Credits
GAME SYSTEM
DEXTERITY