“Land ho!” screeches Coco the parrot. He is on the lookout, circling high 
above your ships. In front of you lie the islands of Catan: many small 
islands with lush forests, golden yellow sugar cane fields, and volcanic 
cliffs studded with mysterious caves—an ideal home for adventurous 
pirates! You immediately build your first pirates’ lairs and your first 
ship, and since the islands are filled with goods and treasures, you soon 
are able to build more ships and pirates’ lairs.
As you explore the group of islands further, you discover a towering isle 
laden with fabulous gold treasures. And while everyone is busy trying to 
be the first to build a pirates’ lair on the gold island, Coco comes back 
from a reconnaissance flight. Agitated, he screeches, “Ghost Captain! 
Ghost Captain!”
What terrified Coco was the gloomy fortress on Spooky Island, built on 
a lonely rock surrounded by treacherous waters. Soon the Ghost Captain 
will notice that he is no longer the sole ruler of the islands of Catan. Then 
he will try to prevent you from advancing further, wherever he can. But 
who knows, if the Ghost Captain bothers you too much, maybe Coco, your 
loyal parrot, will come to the rescue... 

GETTING READY TO PLAY
Before you play your first game, carefully 
detach all parts from the die-cut cardboard sheets. 
The Board – Place the 
board at the center of 
the table. 
In a 3-player or 
4-player game, use the 
side with four turtle 
isles in the upper-right 
corner of the water 
(circled in red on the 
right). In a 2-player 
game, use the side with 
only 2 turtle isles. 
The Ghost Captain – Place the 
Ghost Captain on Spooky Island. 
The Die – Place the die next to the 
board. 
Your Pieces – Each of you chooses a color. 
Take the 7 pirates’ lairs 
and the 8 ships of your 
color. In a 3-player game, 
the white game pieces are 
not used, so you put them 
back into the box. 
Some circles on the 
game board are colored. 
These are your starting 
lair-sites. Place 1 of your 
pirates’ lairs on each of the 
2 lair-sites of your chosen 
color. The sites for your 
starting ships are beside 
your starting lairs. They are 
marked with dotted lines in 
your chosen color. Place 1 of 
your ships on each of your 2 ship-sites. Then place your 
remaining 5 pirates’ lairs and your 6 ships in front of 
you as your supply. 
Each of you takes the building 
costs tile that matches your 
color and places it face up in 
front of you. 
Lastly, each of you receives 
one wood resource tile and 
one molasses resource tile from 
the stockpile. Place these resource 
tiles in front of you. 
You are now ready to begin your adventure!
Resource Tiles – Sort 
the resource tiles by the 
five types—cutlasses, 
goats, wood, gold, and 
molasses—and place 
them in a stockpile 
next to the board.
The Market – Take one 
tile from each of the five 
resource tile piles and 
place these tiles on the 
five booths of the 
marketplace depicted at 
the right side of the board 
(one tile on each booth). 
Coco Tiles – Thoroughly shuffle the “Coco 
tiles” and place them in a stack next to the 
board, with Coco, the parrot, facing up. 

WHAT IS IT ABOUT?
The goal of the game is to be the first player to build your 
7 pirates’ lairs. You can build a pirates’ lair on any empty 
lair-site adjacent to one of your ships. You can build a ship on 
any empty ship-site adjacent to one of your pirates’ lairs.
You need resources to build ships and pirates’ lairs. These 
costs are shown on your building costs tile. You get resource tiles 
from the islands adjacent to your pirates’ lairs.
Each turn the die is rolled. Each island displaying the number 
rolled produces a resource for each adjacent pirates’ lair. For 
example, if a 4 is rolled, the treasure caves (lower left) would 
produce cutlasses, while the sugar cane (lower right) would 
produce molasses.
In a moment, we will explain how that works.
TURN SEQUENCE
The youngest player starts the game and takes the first turn. 
Begin your turn by rolling the dice. Depending on what you 
roll, some players receive new resource tiles. After rolling, since 
it’s your turn, you may build, buy and trade in any order. 
When you are done building, buying and trading, your turn is 
over. Pass the die to the player on your left, who takes a turn.
Roll the Die
When it is your turn, you roll the die. The result of your die 
roll applies not only to you but to all players. Even though it 
is still your turn, other players may receive resource tiles. 
For each of his/her pirates’ lairs adjacent to an island with the 
number rolled, that player receives 1 resource tile that matches 
the icon of that adjacent island. 
 Lair-site 
(for a 
Pirates’ Lair)
White Player’s 
White Player’s 
Red Player’s 
Red Player’s 
Blue Player’s 
Orange Player’s 
Orange Player’s 
Blue Player’s 
On a roll of 6, 
move the 
Ghost Captain.
Ship-site 
(for a ship)
The Market
With sugar cane, 
you produce 
molasses.
In the treasure 
caves, you 
find cutlasses.
In the forest, 
you find 
wood.
In pastures, 
you find 
goats.
In the rivers, 
you find gold.
The Ghost 
Captain 
starts on 
Spooky Island.

Because you rolled the die, you must give your fellow players 
any newly earned resources from the stockpile. 
Look at the example below. You are the white player and 
you roll a “4”. You and the red player each have a pirates’ lair 
next to the sugar cane island with a “4”, so you each get a mo-
lasses tile. A treasure cave island is also marked with a “4”, so 
you must give Blue 1 cutlass tile and Orange 2 cutlass tiles. 
Note: You receive 1 resource for each pirates’ lair you have 
next to an island that produces. In the example below, 
because the orange player has 2 lairs next to the “4” cutlass 
islands, when a “4” is rolled, Orange gets 2 cutlasses.
Build
On your turn, you can use resources 
to buy Coco tiles and to build pirates’ 
lairs and ships. You may build/buy as 
long as you have the required resources.
⚔ A pirates’ lair costs 1 cutlass, 1 molasses, 1 goat, & 1 wood.
⚔ A ship costs 1 goat & 1 wood.
⚔ A Coco tile costs 1 cutlass, 1 molasses, & 1 gold. 
Whenever you want to build something, check your building 
costs tile to remind yourself what you can do with your resources. 
Whenever you build something, put the resources you spend into 
the stockpile.
Pirates’ Lair
You may build a pirates’ lair 
on an empty lair-site, but only if 
one of your ships is adjacent to it. 
Ship
You may build a ship on any empty ship-site, but only if it is 
adjacent to one of your own pirates’ lairs. 
If you roll a “6”, no one receives 
resource tiles. Instead, you move the 
Ghost Captain onto any other island of 
your choice. Then, you take 2 resource 
tiles produced by that island from 
the stockpile. As long as the Ghost 
Captain is on an island, no one 
receives resource tiles for their pirates’ 
lairs adjacent to that island when the 
island’s number is rolled.
Examples of improper builds:
 “Did you notice? There’s no ‘6’ at all on 
the game board, because if a ‘6’ is rolled, 
something quite different happens ...”
“So, if you roll a ‘6’, the best things to do 
are: place the Ghost Captain on an island 
where only your opponents have lairs. Or, 
on an island where you can take resources 
that you can immediately use to build something.”
“You must always build in an alternating 
fashion. Either a pirates’ lair and then a 
ship, or a ship and then a pirates’ lair. 
Also, you may not build past another 
player’s pirates’ lair or ship, and you may 
not share a lair-site or ship-site with another player.”
You can’t 
build a lair 
on a ship-site!
You can’t 
build a ship 
on a lair-site!
You must 
build a ship 
here first!
You must 
build a lair 
here first!
Example of proper builds:

Buy Coco Tiles 
When you buy a Coco tile, the parrot helps you. Turn the tile 
face up and immediately take the action that is shown. 
Place your used tiles in front of you, Coco side up. Used tiles 
are used to keep track of how many Coco tiles you have bought. 
Trade
While you may not always have the resources you need to 
build on your turn, you have the chance to trade with the mar-
ketplace or with the stockpile. You may only trade on your turn.
Trade with the Marketplace
If you decide to trade with the marketplace, you can take any 
one of the resources from the booths. In return, you must place 
one of your own resources back on that booth. That way, there 
are always 5 resource tiles in the marketplace. 
You can trade with the marketplace only once during your 
turn. If you want to trade some more, you may trade with the 
stockpile (see “Trade with the Stockpile” on page 6). 
A Pirates’ Lair on Spooky Island 
If you ever have the most Coco tiles in front of you, place 
one of your unused pirates’ lairs on Spooky Island. 
If you are the first player to buy a Coco tile, you have the 
most tiles…for now.
If any other player has the same number of Coco tiles as you 
have, you must remove your pirate’s lair from Spooky Island. 
When the tie is broken, and once again a single player has 
the most Coco tiles, that player places a pirates’ lair on 
Spooky Island.
“My tiles are very useful. You can receive 
resource tiles, a ship, or a pirates’ lair 
as a gift. You can also get the chance to 
move the Ghost Captain.” 
“But watch out! If my stack of tiles is empty, I can’t 
help you any more.”
“As soon as 5 tiles of the same type are in 
the marketplace, the tiles are removed from 
the marketplace and returned to the 
stockpile. Now place 1 of each resource on 
the marketplace booths, just like at the 
beginning of the game.”
Marketplace:
5 tiles of the 
same type.
Remove all tiles.
Marketplace:
Refill with 
1 of each tile.


Back of a Coco tile
Immediately move the Ghost 
Captain to a new island as if 
you had rolled a ‘6’
Immediately build a pirates’ 
lair or a ship for free
Immediately receive 
the 4 resources shown 
from the stockpile

Trade with the Stockpile
Another option you have is to trade directly with the stockpile 
of resources. Take any one resource tile from the stockpile, but 
in exchange, you must replace it with two of your resource tiles. 
Your two tiles must be a matched pair. You may trade with the 
stockpile as many times as you wish or are able.
END OF THE GAME
As soon as a player builds all 7 pirates’ lairs (of course, a 
pirates’ lair on Spooky Island also counts!), the game immedi-
ately ends and that player wins.
“For example, you may place 2 goat tiles 
into the stockpile and take 1 wood tile from 
the stockpile in exchange.” 
“What, you have one last question? What 
happens if the supply runs out of 1 type of 
resource tile, you ask?”
“I have your answer! All players must return all of their 
tiles of that type to the stockpile. That type of tile will be 
available again on the next player’s turn.” 
An Optional Rule For Advanced Players: 
Trading with Your Opponents
Instead of using use the marketplace, trade resource tiles 
directly with other players. 
If it is your turn, you may trade resource tiles with the 
other players. Let’s assume you want to build a ship, for 
which you need 1 wood tile and 1 goat tile. You already 
have 1 goat tile, but unfortunately you don’t have a wood 
tile. However, you have a cutlass tile you don’t need at the 
moment. Now you can ask the other players whether some-
one wants to trade a wood tile for a cutlass tile. If someone 
wants your trade, swap the two tiles.
All trades must be 1 resource for 1 resource, but you can 
do this as many times as you like on your turn.
“It’s important, though, that trading is only 
allowed with the player whose turn it is. 
Players who are not taking their turns may 
not trade with each other.” 
You have purchased a game of the 
highest quality. However, if you find any 
components missing or defective, please 
use our customer support portal 
(hosted by Asmodee North America) at:
https://asmodee.us/en/support/
For all other inquiries, contact us at: 
 info@catanstudio.com
CREDITS
Design: Klaus Teuber
Development: Benjamin Teuber, Guido Teuber
Art: Patricia Raubo 
Graphic Design: Pete Fenlon, Morgan Dontanville
Translation: Gavin Allister
Production: Pete Fenlon, Coleman Charlton, Ron Magin
Special Thanks: Peter Bromley, Robert T. Carty, Jr., Robert T. Carty, Sr., Marinda 
Darnell, Dan Decker, Nick Johnson, Kim Marino, Marty McDonnell, Brad 
McWilliams, Jim Miles, Chuck Rice, Bridget Roznai, Larry Roznai, Loren Roznai, 
Brad Steffen, Claudia Teuber, Bill Wordelmann, Elaine Wordelmann, Alex Yeager, 
and Mayfair Games for 20 years of Catan development.
Playtesting: Olivia Johnston, Niall Doherty-Magin, Siobhán Doherty-Magin, 
Ron Magin, Al Roireau, Cooper Roireau, Rossdorf playtest group.
Copyright © 2012, 2016, 2018 Catan GmbH and Catan Studio. Catan, Catan Junior, and The 
Settlers of Catan , the Catan Sun logo, the Glowing Yellow Sun mark, the Catan Board mark, and 
all other marks herein are trademark properties of Catan GmbH. Catan Studio is a trading name of 
Asmodee North America. All rights reserved.
Studio™
catanstudio.com
catan.com
Immediately move the 
Ghost Captain to a new 
island as if you had 
rolled a ‘6’
Immediately build a 
pirates’ lair or a ship 
for free
Immediately receive 
the 4 resources shown 
from the stockpile
Coco Tile Effects for Easy Reference