Klaus Teuber
Game Overview & Rules
Dear Settlers,
Welcome to the Island of Catan. You are about 
to explore this bountiful island in all its three-
dimensional glory.
This is a special project for me; I sculpted the original 
terrain hex models myself by hand. The CATAN team 
wanted to offer fans who didn’t have an opportunity 
to get the 10th Anniversary 3D edition a different, but 
compatible, modern 3D version.
I hope that you and your friends enjoy your 
adventures here. Have fun settling this uninhabited 
island together!
For more information about CATAN, visit catan.com
Playing Your First Game
To make it as easy as possible for you to start playing 
CATAN®, we use the simple 3-part CATAN rule system: the 
Overview, the Game Rules, and the Almanac.
If you’ve never played CATAN, first read the Overview at 
the beginning of this booklet. Then read the Rules (pages 
1-3) and start playing right away. The rules contain all 
the basic information that you need to play the game. If 
you don’t like reading rules, download the free CATAN – 
Explainer App from your app store.
If questions arise during play, please consult the Almanac 
for details. Keywords are marked with a “)” symbol to help 
you locate subjects and topics in the Almanac index.
A note about pronouns in our rules: 
We use they/them/their as singular pronouns in our rules. 
However, in the rules examples, we assign he, she, and they 
to various player colors for the sake of brevity and clarity in 
the multiplayer situations we present.
*requires iOS 5 & Android 4 or newer
Don’t Like
Reading Rules?
Full Dynamic
Walkthroughs
Other CATAN
Content!
CATAN Rules
Explainer App
Use the App! 
*

Africa is spring and we walk five paths toward the sun
CONTENTS
One cove frame x3
Two cove frame x3
OVERVIEW
MARKET
GREAT HALL
CHAPEL
UNIVERSITY
19	Terrain Hexes
95	Resource Cards (19 of each type)
25	Development Cards
Brick
Lumber
Card Back
Card Back
Wool
18 Number Tokens
Forest 
produces lumber
Fields 
produce grain
Hills 
produce brick
Pasture 
produces wool
Mountains 
produce ore
Desert 
produces nothing
The island of Catan lies before you. The isle consists of 19 terrain hexes surrounded 
by ocean. Your goal is to settle on Catan, and expand your territory until it becomes 
the largest and most glorious in Catan.
There are five productive terrain types and one desert on Catan. Each terrain 
type produces a different resource. (The desert produces nothing.) 
Each resource you receive is represented by a card. 
Here’s what each terrain produces:
You begin the game with 2 settlements and 2 roads. Each 
settlement is worth 1 victory point. You therefore start the 
game with 2 victory points! The first player to acquire 
10 victory points on their turn wins the game.
To gain more victory points, you must build new roads and 
settlements and upgrade your settlements to cities. Each city is worth 
2 victory points. To build or upgrade, you need to acquire resources.
How do you acquire resources? It’s simple. Each turn, you roll 2 dice to 
determine which terrain hexes produce resources. Each terrain hex is marked with 
a round number token. For example, if you roll a “10,” all terrain hexes with a “10” 
number token produce resources. In the illustration on the right, those terrain hexes 
are a mountains hex (ore) and a hills hex (brick).
 6	Sea Frames
 9	Harbor Markers
CATAN—Overview & Contents
Victory Point Cards x1 of each (5)
Starting Set-up for Beginners
3:1 x4
Brick x1
Wool x1
Grain x1
Ore x1
Lumber x1
Desert x1
Fields x4
Pasture x4
Hills x3
Forest x4
Mountains x3
One-cove frame x3
Two-cove frame x3
A
Intersection
Path

MONOPOLY
When you play this card, 
announce 1 type of resource. 
All other players must give 
you all of their resources 
of that type.
Take any 2 resources from
the supply. Add them to
your hand. They can be
2 of the same resource or
2 different resources.
YEAR OF PLENTY
The first player to play 3 Knight cards 
gets this card. Another player who plays 
more knight cards takes this card.
Progress Cards x2 of each
Grain
Knight x14
2 Special Victory Point Cards
1 Robber Figure
2 Dice
2 Card Trays
4 Building Costs Cards
 4	Sets of Pieces in 4 Different Player Colors 
	
Each set has:
15 Roads
 5 Settlements
 4 Cities
Ore
You only collect resources if you own a settlement or city bordering these terrain hexes. In 
the illustration, the red settlement [A] borders the “10” mountains, and orange settlement 
[B] borders the “10” hills. Whenever any player rolls a “10,” the red player receives 1 ore 
card and the orange player receives 1 brick card.
Since the settlements and cities usually border on 2-3 terrain types, they can 
“harvest” up to 3 different resources based on the dice roll. Here, the white 
settlement [C] borders on forest, mountains, and pasture. A settlement at [D] 
would only harvest the production from 2 bordering terrain hexes (hills and 
mountains). Finally, a settlement at [E] would only harvest the production from 
1 bordering terrain hex (pasture). However, [E] is also at a wool harbor.
Since it’s impossible for you to have settlements bordering all terrain 
hexes and number tokens, you may receive certain resources only at 
rare intervals—or never. This is a challenge, because building requires 
specific resource combinations.
For this reason, you can trade with other players. 
Make them an offer! A successful trade might yield you 
  a big build!
You can only build a new settlement on an unoccupied 
intersection if you have a road leading to that intersection 
and the nearest settlement is at least two intersections away.
Carefully consider where you build settlements. 
The values on the number tokens are depicted in 
varying sizes. They also have dots (pips) below the numbers. 
The taller the depicted number, and the more pips it has, the 
more likely that number is to be rolled. For example: The red numbers 6 and 
8 are the tallest numbers with the most pips; they are most likely to be rolled 
during a game. The 2 and the 12 are the shortest numbers with the fewest pips; 
they are least likely to be rolled during a game.
General Advice: The more frequently a number is rolled, the more often the hexes 
with those numbers produce resources. You should consider settling on hexes that have 
good potential for production (i.e., 6 and 8 vs. 2 and 12). However, these same high-
producing hexes are often the primary target for the robber.
1 Almanac
B
C
D
E
Robber
Number Disc
Harbor
w/Harbor Marker

CATAN—Rules
The first player to play 3 Knight cards 
gets this card. Another player who plays 
more knight cards takes this card.
Build the 3D Game Board
The CATAN – 3D Edition game board consists of 4 types of 
pieces: sea frames, harbors, terrain hexes, and number tokens. 
The board is completely modular. Every time you play CATAN, the 
game is different.
1. The Sea Frame
Assemble this first. The sea frame consists of six frame pieces. 
It forms the coastline of Catan and holds the board together 
during play. Please note that there are two types of sea frames—
one-cove frames and two-cove frames. Alternate the two types 
when you assemble the frame (e.g., 1-cove, 2-cove, 1-cove, etc.) 
as depicted in the Overview.
2. The Harbors
Harbors ) are indicated by harbor 
markers. Place them onto the 
sea frame in each of the coves. 
Remember to place the ships so 
that their gangplanks point in 
the direction of the two harbor 
intersections as shown here.
Note: For a standard CATAN set-up, place the harbors in the 
specific coves shown in Overview.
3. The Terrain Hexes
Create the island of Catan by placing the 19 terrain hexes 
inside the sea frame. If you are new to CATAN, use the Starting 
Set-up for Beginners (see below). If you are an experienced 
player, you can place them randomly (see Starting Set-up for 
Experienced Players).
4. The Number Tokens
For your first CATAN game, place the number tokens on 
the terrain hexes as shown in the Overview. If you are an 
experienced player, use the method described in the Almanac.
Setting Up the Game
Starting Set-up for Beginners
For your first few games of CATAN, we recommend that you use 
this starting set-up for beginners ). This set-up is well-balanced 
for all players.
Build the Board
Use the Overview as your guide.
First, assemble the sea frame and add the harbors. Next, add 
the terrain hexes and place the number tokens on top of them. 
Finally, put the robber figure on the desert. Your island should 
now look exactly like the one in the Overview.
Select Your Playing Pieces
Choose a color and take your 5 settlements ), 4 cities ), and 
15 roads ). Place your 2 settlements and your 2 roads on the 
game board as shown in the Overview. Place your remaining 
settlements, roads, and cities down in front of you. Finally, take 
your building costs card and place it in front of you.
Note: If you are playing a 3-player game, nobody plays the 
red position indicated on the Overview map (place no pieces).
Prepare the Shared Components
Place the Longest Road and Largest Army special victory 
point cards beside the game board, along with the 2 dice. 
Place the robber on the desert.
Sort the resource cards into 5 stacks and put them face up in 
the card trays next to the game board. Shuffle the development 
cards and place them face down in the card trays.
Take Your Starting Resources
For the beginner game, you receive starting resources ) 
corresponding to each terrain hex around your starting 
settlement (marked with a white star H on the Overview). 
Take 1 of each corresponding resource card from the supply.
Example: Blue receives 1 brick card, 1 lumber 
card, and 1 ore card for his settlement marked 
with a star H on the Overview.
Keep your resource cards in your hand, 
hidden from the other players.
Starting Set-up for Experienced Players
It is more fun to play with a variable game board. With the 
game board laid out randomly, CATAN is always different. If you 
would like to use the variable set-up, you can find the guidelines 
in the Almanac under Set-up, Variable Board ). Also look for 
useful tips under Set-up Phase ) and Tactics ).
Turn Overview
Unless you’re using the Starting Set-up for Experienced 
Players ), the oldest player goes first. On your turn, you can do 
the following in the order listed:
1.	Resource Production ): Roll the dice for resource 
production. Each eligible player collects their resources.

2:1 Trade at a 
2:1 Lumber Harbor
2.	Trade ): You may trade resource cards with other players 
and/or use maritime trade ).
3.	Build ): You may build roads ), settlements ), or cities ) and/or 
buy development cards ). You may also play 1 development 
card ) at any time during your turn (even before you roll 
the dice).
After you’re done, pass the dice to the player to your left, who 
then takes their turn starting with step 1.
Note: In these Rules, when we say “active player” we are 
referring to “the person whose turn it is.”
Tip: For experienced players, we recommend combining 
the second and third steps. You can find more details in the 
Almanac under Combined Trade/Build Phase ).
The Turn in Detail
1. Resource Production )
Begin your turn by rolling both dice. The sum of the 
dice determines which terrain hexes produce resources.
Each player who has a settlement on an intersection ) 
that borders a terrain hex marked with the number rolled 
receives 1 resource card of the hex’s type (2 resource cards 
if it’s a city).
Example: If you roll an “8,” 
Red receives 2 ore for her two 
settlements and White receives 
1 ore for theirs. If you roll a “10,” 
White receives 1 wool. If White’s 
settlement were a city, White 
would receive 2 wool on a “10” roll.
2. Trade )
Next, you may trade freely (using either or both types of trades 
below) to gain needed resource cards:
a) Domestic Trade ) (Trade with players)
On your turn, you can trade resource cards with any of the 
other players. You can announce which resources you need and 
what you are willing to trade for them. The other players can 
also make their own proposals and counteroffers.
Important: Players may only trade with the active player. The 
other players may not trade among themselves.
b) Maritime Trade ) (Trade with the supply)
You can also trade without the other players!
During your turn, you can always trade at 4:1 by putting 
4 identical resource cards into the supply and taking any 
1 resource card of your choice in return.
If you have a settlement or city on a harbor ), you can trade 
with the supply more favorably: at either a 3:1 ratio or, in certain 
harbors, at 2:1 (trading the resource type shown at the harbor).
Examples:
3. Build )
Now you can build. Through building, you can increase 
your victory points ), expand your road network, improve your 
resource production, and/or buy useful development cards. To 
build, you must pay specific combinations of resource cards 
(see the Building Costs Cards )) to the supply. After paying, 
take the appropriate number of roads, settlements, and/or cities 
from your supply and place them on the game board. Keep 
development cards hidden in your hand.
You cannot build more pieces than what is available in your 
supply—a maximum of 5 settlements, 4 cities, and 15 roads.
a) Road ) Requires: Lumber + Brick
You can only build a road on an empty path ). A new road must 
always connect to 1 of your existing roads, settlements, or cities. 
You cannot build a road on an empty path that is immediately 
beyond an opponent’s settlement or city.
Example: Orange can build a 
new road on the paths marked 
in green, but not on the path 
marked in red.
(not counting branches) of at least 5 road 
segments receives the Longest Road ) special 
card. If another player succeeds in building an 
even longer road, they immediately take the 
special card and its 2 victory points.
Example: Red has the longest road. It is 6 segments long 
(the extra 2 segment branch does not add to the total). 
Orange’s road is now divided into 2 parts by Red’s settlement 
(one is 2 segments long, the other is 5 segments long).
4:1 Trade with the Supply
3:1 Trade at a 3:1 Harbor
2:1 Trade at a 
2:1 Lumber Harbor

Victory Point Icon
b) Settlement ) Requires: Lumber + Brick + Wool + Grain
You must build your settlements on an intersection ) that is 
adjacent to one of your roads. Additionally, you must observe the 
“distance rule” ).
Distance Rule: You may only build a settlement on an 
intersection if all 3 of the adjacent intersections are vacant 
(i.e., NOT occupied by any settlements or cities–even your own).
Each of your settlements is worth 1 victory point to you.
Example: Orange may build a settlement on the intersection 
marked in green, but not on the ones marked in red—due to 
either the distance rule or not being adjacent to one of his roads.
c) City ) Requires: 2 Grain + 3 Ore
You may only build a city by upgrading one of your 
settlements. When you do, return your settlement piece to your 
supply and place a city piece where the settlement was.
Cities produce twice as many resources as settlements. 
You gain 2 resource cards when an adjacent terrain hex 
produces resources.
Each of your cities is worth 2 victory points to you.
d) Development Card ) Requires: Wool + Grain + Ore
When you buy a development card, draw the top card from the 
deck. There are 3 different kinds of development cards:
Knight ), Progress ), and Victory Point ) cards. Each has a 
different effect (see 4. b, below).
Development cards never go back into the supply, and you 
cannot buy development cards if the supply is empty.
Keep development cards hidden in your hand until you 
use them.
4. Special Cases
a) Rolling a “7” and Activating the Robber )
If you roll a “7,” no one receives any resources.
Instead, every player who has more than 
7 resource cards must select half (rounded down) of 
their resource cards and return them to the supply.
Then proceed as follows:
1) Immediately move the robber ) from its current location 
to the number token of any other terrain hex (even the 
desert ) hex).
2) Then you steal 1 random resource card from any one 
opponent who has a settlement or city adjacent to that 
terrain hex. The player who is robbed holds their resource 
cards facedown. You then take 1 card at random. If the hex 
is adjacent to 2 or more players’ settlements or cities, you 
choose which player you want to steal from.
Important: If you roll a production number for the hex 
containing the robber, the owners of adjacent settlements and 
cities do not receive resources. The robber prevents it.
b) Playing Development Cards )
At any time during your turn, you may play 1 development 
card (put it face up on the table). That card, however, may not 
be a card you bought during the same turn (except for a victory 
point card, as described below).
Knight Cards ) (Purple Frame)
If you play a knight card, you must immediately 
move the robber as you would if you rolled a “7” 
(i.e., follow number 4. a, above).
Place your knight cards face up in front of you 
when you play them. If you are the first player to have 3 
knight cards in front of you, take the Largest Army card. It is 
worth 2 victory points.
If another player plays more knight cards, they 
immediately take the Largest Army card and its 
2 victory points.
Progress Cards ) (Green Frame)
If you play a progress card, follow its instructions. 
The card is then removed from the game.
Victory Point Cards ) (Orange Frame)
You must keep victory point cards hidden. You 
may only reveal them during your turn and when 
you are sure that you have 10 victory points—that is, to win 
the game. Of course, you can reveal them after the end of 
the game if someone else wins. You may play any number of 
victory point cards during your winning turn, even during 
the turn you purchase them.
End of the Game )
If you have 10 or more victory points at any 
point during your turn, the game ends and 
you are the winner! If you reach 10 points when 
it is not your turn, the game continues until any 
player (including you) has 10 points on their turn.