In a 3-player game, remove all favor tokens with a dot on 
their face from the game. In a 4-player game, use all of the favor 
tokens.
Create an “supply” of favor tokens. Place all favor tokens face 
down and mix them thoroughly. Alternatively, place them in an 
opaque bag or cup. 
EARNING FAVOR TOKENS
You earn favor tokens in one of 3 ways: 
 
✹Move the robber (harmlessly).
 
✹Give away a resource card (to another player).
 
✹Connect networks (yours to another player’s).
If you earn a favor token, draw it randomly from the face-down 
(or hidden) supply. 
NOTE: You may not give away FTs. You may not trade FTs 
with other players. 
1. Move the Robber Harmlessly
You earn 1 favor token if, after rolling a “7” or playing a Knight 
card, you move the robber in one of the following ways:
 
✹you move the robber to any hex (even to the desert) with no 
surrounding settlements or cities; or
 
✹you move the robber to the desert, but decide not to steal 
a resource from a player who owns a settlement or city 
adjacent to the desert.
2. Give Away a Resource Card
On your turn you may offer 1 resource card to an opponent. 
This opponent must have equal or fewer visible VPs than you 
have. The opponent may accept or reject your offer, or even ask for 
a different resource. If rejected, you may offer a card to another 
player (with the the same VP restriction). If your offer is accepted, 
you earn 1 favor token.
NOTE: You may only give away 1 resource card during 
your turn.
3. Connect Networks 
A network is all of the roads, cities, and settlements of one 
color that are connected to each other. If you build a road that 
connects one of your networks with an opponent’s network for the 
ﬁ rst time, this opponent ﬁ rst earns and draws 1 favor token. You 
then earn and draw 3 favor tokens.
You only earn favor tokens for ﬁ rst-time connections of different 
colored networks. Should the 2 networks connect again later in 
the game at a different point, no one earns favor tokens. 
Example: The red player builds road “A” and thus connects his 
lower network to the blue player’s network. Blue earns 1 FT. Red 
earns 3 FTs. If either blue or red build a road on path “B,” they 
A Scenario for 3-4 Players by Benjamin Teuber
THE STORY
We live in a time of altruism on Catan. We give away resources 
to help lagging players. We move the robber to isolated locations 
to ensure the safety of our fellows. We even go out of our way to 
connect our roads with our neighbors’ networks. Has everyone 
gone nuts?
Ah! Catan’s guilds reward such noble-minded behavior by 
handing out “favor tokens” (FTs). Favor tokens grant us different 
advantages: road building for free, development cards, random 
resources, preferential trades, or even Victory Points. 
Sigh… If goodwill really exists… it’s not part of this scenario.
SCENARIO RULES
Except where noted here, use The Settlers of Catan® rules.
NEW COMPONENTS
You will need all the components included in The Settlers of 
Catan (SOC) game. Catan Frenemies™ contains the following 
components:
 
✹1 Guild Hall Board (with 5 Guild Halls)
 
✹8 Victory Point (VP) Markers
 
✹58 Favor Tokens (FTs)(remove the dotted FTs w/ 3 players)
• 8 Trader Guild FTs (Wagons)
• 8 Merchant Guild FTs (Ships)
• 8 Road Builder Guild FTs (Shovels)
• 17 Scholar Guild FTs (Books)
• 17 Master Builder Guild FTs (Compasses)
SET-UP
Set up The Settlers of Catan as normal.
Place the guild hall board next to the island.
TraderMerchantRoad
Builder
ScholarMaster 
Builder
Catan Frenemies Rules 093012.indd 1
10/1/12 3:04 PM

cannot receive any further FTs. However, if either player builds 
a road on path “C,” both players earn FTs. This is because red’s 
upper network only now becomes connected to blue’s network. 
You cannot earn favor tokens for connecting your own networks 
with each other.
If, during the set-up, you connect 2 networks, no one earns 
favor tokens.
If you build a road that connects your network with the network 
of two opponents at the same time, you still receive only 3 favor 
tokens. The owners of the other two networks each earn 1 favor 
token. You decide which opponent draws from the bag ﬁ rst.
USING FAVOR TOKENS
When it is your turn, you may either redeem or exchange your 
favor tokens.
1. Redeeming Favor Tokens
You redeem favor tokens by returning them face up to the 
matching guild hall on the guild hall board: 
 
✹traders require 1 (grey) wagon token; 
 
✹merchants require 1 (blue) ship token;
 
✹road builders require 1 (brick red) shovel token; 
 
✹scholars require 2 (gold) book tokens; and
 
✹master builders require 2 (green) compass tokens. 
By redeeming favor tokens you receive “favors” from the guilds.
You must perform the resulting favor immediately. A favor may 
not be credited and saved for later.
NOTE: You are not allowed to use FTs that you receive 
during your turn. You must wait until your next turn.
Each guild grants different favors:
 
✹Traders’ favor: Trade 1 resource card for 1 different 
available resource card of your choice. You may take this 
action once or twice in a given turn.
 
✹Merchants’ favor: Take any 1 available resource card of 
your choice.
 
✹Road Builders’ favor: Build 1 road for free.
 
✹Scholars’ favor: Draw 1 development card for free.
 
✹Master Builders’ favor: Take 1 VP marker. For the sake of 
showing who has the most VPs, keep the marker face up. 
(The amount of victory points may affect your ability to 
give away resource cards.)
2. Exchanging a Favor Token
If you don’t take a guild action, you may exchange 1 favor token 
for a favor token from the supply. First, draw an favor token from 
the face-down (or hidden) supply. Then choose to return one of 
your favor tokens back to the supply. You may return the favor 
token that you just drew.
ENDING THE GAME
You win if you reach 11 Victory Points during your turn! 
The game immediately ends.
5-6 PLAYER VARIATION
To play with 5-6 players, you will need a copy of the SOC 5-6 
Player Extension and a second copy of this scenario.
Except where noted here, use The Settlers of Catan® rules, all 
of the SOC 5-6 rules, and this scenario’s 3-4 player rules.
In a 5-player game, set up the SOC 5-6 as normal. Use all of the 
favor tokens from one copy of Catan Frenemies (58), along 
with all of the favor tokens from the second copy that have a dot 
on their face. 
In a 6-player game, set up the SOC 5-6 as normal and use all of 
the FTs from two copies of Catan Frenemies that do not have a 
dot on their face (88). 
You may not use favor tokens during a special build phase. If 
you receive a favor token during a special build phase, you may 
use it on your next turn.
CREDITS
Scenario Design: Benjamin Teuber
Design Derivation: Scenario is based on The Settlers of Catan by 
Klaus Teuber. Derivation development by Klaus Teuber.
Artwork: Michael Menzel
Production & Rules Development: Mayfair Games crew and the 
Catan GmbH crew
Playtesters: Dominik Sarma, Mimi, Constantin Vasconi, Marissa del 
Amo, Arnd Beenen, Gero Zahn, Pete Fenlon, Coleman Charlton, 
Morgan Dontanville, Kurt H. Fischer, Bruce Glassco, Ron Magin, 
Dallas Pitt, David Platick, Alan Roireau
Copyright © 2012 Catan GmbH. Published by Mayfair Games, Inc. under 
exclusive, worldwide, English-language license from Catan GmbH. Catan, The 
Settlers of Catan, Catan Scenarios, the “Catan Sun” logo and Catan 
Frenemies are trademarks of Catan GmbH. All rights reserved.
MADE IN USA
www.catan.com, www.kosmos.de
www.mayfairgames.com
Mayfair Games, Inc., Skokie, IL USA. 
 
 
 
Mayfair Games GmbH, Haagweg 5, D-61231 Bad Neuheim, Deutschland.
Catan Frenemies Rules 093012.indd 2
10/1/12 3:04 PM