Cathedral™ 
Magnetic Travel Edition 
 
Object of the Game 
To position all of your buildings within the perimeter walls while preventing your opponent from doing the 
same. 
 
Game Preparation 
Decide who will play the “Light” buildings and who will play the “Dark”. Distribute the 28 buildings 
accordingly, placing them in front of the corresponding player. 
 
Game Play 
The Light player starts by positioning the Cathedral anywhere on the playing area, always respecting the grid 
squares (fig.1). The Dark player makes the first and each alternate move 
 
 
Strategic Moves 
 
• A move consists of positioning one of your 
buildings on the playing area, keeping it lined 
up with the grid squares. Once positioned, 
you may not move it. 
 
• Neither you nor your opponent may claim 
space on your first move (fig. 2). 
 
• Playing both offensively and defensively 
throughout the game, concentrate on 
claiming space early on by creating inner 
wall-to-wall connections that cannot be 
entered by your opponent (fig. 3), or, as 
another sequence shows, try to create inner 
wall-to-wall 
connections 
that 
will 
either 
surround the Cathedral (fig. 4a), or an 
opponents building (fig. 4b). 
 
• If you enclose any ONE piece, be it the 
Cathedral (fig. 4a), or one of your opponent's 
buildings (fig. 4b), you MUST remove it from 
play IMMEDIATELY. If not, it remains where 
it is and the space is still available to your 
opponent. The opponent may replay the 
removed 
building 
as 
they 
choose. 
The 
Cathedral is not replayed for the remainder of 
the game 
 
• If you enclose TWO or more buildings (fig. 
5), one of which may be the Cathedral, no 
buildings are removed from play and the 
space is still available to your opponent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Winning 
The game ends when no further moves can be made by either player. If there are any unplaced buildings 
at the end of the game, the player whose buildings take up the least number of squares on the board wins 
the game. Now play with the Dark player positioning the Cathedral first. At the end, the player with the 
combined lowest score wins. 
 
 
TIPS: 
• Corner to corner contacts are not acceptable when creating inner wall-to-wall connections that 
cannot be entered by your opponent (fig. 6). 
 
 
• Try to position your largest buildings first to claim space. 
 
• The Cathedral is neutral and may not be used as part of your wall-to-wall connection to claim space. 
Your wall must be created with your own buildings. 
 
• Be careful not to let your buildings get surrounded. 
 
• You should not position your buildings in your own space while there is unclaimed space still 
available on the playing area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufactured and distributed by: 
Family Games America FGA Inc. Montreal, Quebec, Canada www.familygamesamerica.com 
 
Under license from Chrisbo I.P. Holding Ltd. © 1997