Table of Contents 
1.0 Introduction ..................................................................... 1 
2.0 Components .................................................................... 1 
2.1 Game Scale .................................................................. 1 
2.2 Playing Pieces .............................................................. 1 
2.2.1 Action Chits (see 4.0) ............................................ 1 
2.2.2 Tactical Chits (see 4.0) .......................................... 1 
2.2.3 Combat Units ........................................................ 1 
3.0 Sequence of Play ............................................................. 2 
4.0 Action Chits and Tactical Chits ......................................... 2 
5.0 Supply .............................................................................. 2 
6.0 Initiative ........................................................................... 3 
7.0 Action Phase .................................................................... 3 
8.0 Movement ....................................................................... 3 
8.1 Allied Prohibited Movement Zone .............................. 4 
8.2 Allied 69th Brigade ........................................................ 4 
8.3 Off Map Movement ..................................................... 4 
9.0 Zones of Control (ZOC) .................................................... 4 
10.0 Stacking .......................................................................... 4 
11.0 Combat .......................................................................... 4 
11.1 Retreat ....................................................................... 6 
11.2 Advance after Combat ............................................... 7 
12.0 Disruption ...................................................................... 7 
13.0 Tactical Chits .................................................................. 8 
13.1 Combat ...................................................................... 8 
13.2 Extra Move................................................................. 8 
13.3 Replacement .............................................................. 8 
13.4 Air .............................................................................. 8 
13.5 Sandstorm.................................................................. 8 
13.6 Anti-Tank (Axis Only) ................................................. 8 
13.7 Withdraw/Attack (Allied Only) .................................. 9 
13.8 Playing Multiple Tactical Chits ................................... 9 
14.0 Minefields ...................................................................... 9 
14.1 Breaching Minefields ................................................. 9 
14.2 Minefields and Axis Actions ..................................... 10 
15.0 Reinforcements ........................................................... 11 
15.1 Reinforcement Schedule ......................................... 11 
16.0 Victory Conditions ....................................................... 11 
17.0 Scenarios ...................................................................... 11 
18.0 Players Notes ............................................................... 12 
19.0 Designer’s Notes .......................................................... 12 
 
1.0 Introduction 
Gazala is a simulation of the fighting near Tobruk, 27 May 
through 14 June 1942. The game covers the mobile portions 
of the fighting: the southern end of the Allied line and the 
area just to the east of the Allied defenses. 
2.0 Components 
1 22”x17” Map 
168 Die-Cut Counters 
1 Player Chart (Combat, Movement, etc.) 
1 Rules Booklet 
This game uses a ten-sided die, numbered 0-9, which is not 
included with the game. 0 is read as zero in this game. 
2.1 Game Scale 
Each hex on the game map is approximately one mile 
across. Each unit is a battalion with the exception of the 
units of the Italian units of the Brescia and Pavia Divisions 
which are regiments. The time span represented by each 
turn varies (see the Turn Record Track printed on the map). 
2.2 Playing Pieces 
2.2.1 Action Chits (see 4.0) 
Axis Action Chit 
 
Allied Action Chit 
 
2.2.2 Tactical Chits (see 4.0) 
Axis Tactical chits 
 
Allied Tactical Chits 
 
2.2.3 Combat Units 
The counters in the game represent the units from the 
historical formations which fought in the battle. Italian units 
are green, German units are gray, British units are brown, 
Indian units are orange, and French units are blue. Units 
have a used side on the rear of the counter that represents 
a unit’s reduced capabilities after movement. A Hard or Soft 
combat value printed in white means that value can only 
be used in the defense. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unit Symbols 
Armor 
Infantry 
Mot Infantry 
 
MG Inf 
Mot AT 
Motorcycle 
 
3.0 Sequence of Play 
Each game turn consists of several phases that must be 
followed in the following sequence. 
1. Chit Phase-Both players adjust the Action Chits and 
Tactical Chits in their cup and reset the Actions 
Available Markers. 
2. Minefield Phase-The Axis player may place two 
minefield breach markers beginning with May 28th 
turn. 
3. Supply Phase-Both players check the supply status of 
all of their units and mark units appropriately. 
4. Initiative Phase-The players determine who will be the 
first player to perform an action. 
5. First Player’s Action Phase-The first player pulls chits 
and activates units for movement and combat. 
6. Second Player’s Action Phase-The second player pulls 
chits and activates units for movement and combat. 
7. First Player’ Action Phase-The first player performs 
another Action Phase, followed by the Second player, 
etc., until both players have expended all of their 
actions. 
8. Recovery Phase-All Disrupted markers are removed 
from units. All units are flipped to their unused sides. 
9. Victory Point Phase-The Axis Player collects victory 
points for units in supply adjacent to the north map 
edge. The turn marker is moved to the next turn. 
 
 
4.0 Action Chits and Tactical Chits 
Action Chits represent the orders from above, formation 
leadership, and supplies needed for a formation to move 
and fight. Tactical Chits represent airpower, corps and army 
artillery, extra fuel supplies, and replacements. 
Each turn the Axis and Allied players place the Action Chits 
and Tactical Chits that are available to them for that turn 
together in a cup. The players will draw chits from these 
cups during the Action Phase. Each player has his own cup 
containing only his chits. The mix of Action Chits changes 
from turn to turn (see the Action Chits Per Turn Table on 
the Gazala Player Chart). All Tactical Chits are placed in the 
cup every turn. 
Each turn each player will have a different number of 
Actions available to be performed. This is printed on the 
Turn Record Track (the number in brown refers to the Allies 
and the number in gray to the Axis). A marker labeled 
Actions Available is provided for each player, and this 
marker is placed in the corresponding box on the Actions 
Track (on map) to remind the player of the number of 
Action Chits he may play this turn. A player may have more 
Action Chits than available actions for the turn, which 
means that not all units will move that turn. 
The number of actions the Axis player receives is also 
dependent on his breaching of Allied minefields. See 14.2 
5.0 Supply 
During the supply phase both players check the supply 
status of all of their units. A unit traces a supply path from 
the unit to a supply source. This path may be of any length 
but may not pass through a hex containing an enemy unit or 
impassable terrain. This includes minefield hexes for the 
Axis player unless they have been breached. (14.1) Supply 
may be traced through an enemy zone of control. (9.0) 
Allied units may trace supply through the Allied Prohibited 
Movement Zone (8.1) 
A unit that cannot trace a supply path back to a supply 
source is marked as Out of Supply. If the unit is already 
marked as Out of Supply, the unit is now marked as 
Isolated. A unit that was Isolated or Out of Supply that can 
trace a supply path during the Supply Phase has its marker 
removed; it is now in supply. Supply status is only checked 
and adjusted during the Supply Phase. 
Full Strength 
Reduced Strength 
Unused 
Side 
Used 
Side 
(White number signifies 
reduced strength) 
Movement Allowance 
Used side is identified 
by dark horizontal bands 
 
Soft Value 
Unit Affiliation 
Hard Value 
Number of Steps 

Axis supply sources are any west map edge hex south of 
0105. Allied supply sources are any north or east map edge 
hex. 
Out of Supply units’ movement allowances are reduced by 
1/3. Out of Supply units attack with a -2 modifier applied to 
the die roll. Defending units are not affected by being Out 
of Supply. 
Isolated units’ movement allowances are reduced by 2/3. 
Isolated units may not attack. Isolated units that are 
attacked have a +2 modifier applied to the attacker’s die 
roll. 
6.0 Initiative 
During the Initiative Phase both players roll a die; the player 
with the higher die roll holds the initiative for this turn. Re-
roll any ties. The player who wins the initiative decides who 
will be the first player to perform an Action Phase. 
Exception: On the May 27 AM turn; the first turn, there is 
no roll for initiative. The Axis player performs the first two 
Action phases and then the players alternate for the rest of 
the turn. The Action Phases for this turn will therefore be as 
follows: Axis, Axis, Allied, Axis, Allied, Axis. 
7.0 Action Phase 
The player who is performing the first Action draws a chit 
from his cup. If he draws a Tactical Chit, it is placed in the 
box on the map for available Tactical Chits. The player then 
draws another chit, and continues to draw chits until an 
Action Chit is drawn. A player may collect multiple Tactical 
Chits before drawing an Action Chit. When he draws an 
Action Chit, the marker is placed on his Action Track on the 
map, and then all units of the formation named on the chit 
are activated for movement and combat. A player may 
instead of activating the units named on the action chit 
choose to activate one unit of any other formation. 
Action Chit’s with 2 sides: (Axis player only) Player may 
choose to activate the formation on either side of the chit. 
The Axis has one Action chit that has two formations on the 
same side of the chit; Brescia and Pavia. When this chit is 
played all units of both of these formations are activated. 
The Allied player has one action chit that says double move. 
This means that any two units, not formations, may be 
activated, including reinforcements. 
Exception: No formation may be activated more than twice 
in a given turn. 
Exception: On the May 27 AM and May 27 PM turns the 
15th Panzer and the 21st Panzer may only be activated once. 
Exception: On May 27 AM and May 27 PM no Allied units of 
the 9 Indian, 69 Infantry, 150 Infantry, 201 Guards, or 1 Free 
Fr. brigades may be activated. No Axis units of the Pavia and 
Trieste divisions may be activated during May 27 AM and 
May 27PM. 
Individual units have no limit to how often they may be 
activated in a turn. Example: The 21st Panzer is activated 
twice in one turn and my not be activated again. However 
one of its units could be activated again by using another 
formation’s action chit, or an extra move chit. 
When a formation is activated, all of its units are flipped to 
their unused sides if not already on their unused sides. The 
same is true if only an individual unit is activated; it is 
flipped to its unused side. 
The player now stops drawing chits and moves and fights 
with his activated units. After the current player completes 
all of his moves and combats with his activated units, the 
Second Player repeats the above procedure. This continues 
until both players have expended all of their available 
Actions for the turn. Since both players can have different 
numbers of actions available for the turn, it is quite possible 
for one player to run out of actions before his opponent, 
allowing the player with more actions to perform multiple 
actions in a row at the end of the turn. 
8.0 Movement 
During the Action Phase the player may move and fight with 
his activated units. Each unit has a movement allowance 
printed on the counter that is the maximum number of 
movement points the unit may expend for movement and 
combat. Movement allowances may be reduced by Supply 
(5.0), Disruption (12.0) or Sandstorm (13.5). Activated units 
are moved individually, with the currently selected 
activated unit called the active unit. Once the active unit’s 
movement has been completed the unit is flipped over to 
its used side, and the next active unit is selected for 
movement. (Activated units that do not expend any 
movement points for movement or combat remain on their 
unused sides.) 

Active units move from hex to hex, expending movement 
points for the terrain in each hex entered, for hexside 
features between hexes, for Combat and for Zones of 
Control. See the Movement Point Cost Chart. 
A unit entering a hex along a road pays the road movement 
point cost instead of the normal cost of the terrain. This is 
the only way a unit may cross an escarpment. 
Exception: Roads do not negate the prohibition of Axis units 
crossing an un-breached minefield or the 12 movement 
point cost for Allied units crossing a minefield. 
Units are split into three types for movement: tracked, 
wheeled, and foot. All armor units are tracked, all infantry 
with a movement allowance of six is foot, and all other units 
are wheeled. 
Most of the terrain on the map is labeled around the edge 
of the hex grid. The words are color coded to match the 
terrain they are labeling. Minefields are the red dotted 
lines. Fortifications are the black lines around the hex edge. 
Escarpments have an up and a down side. The down side is 
the side with the shading. Example below. 
 
 
 
 
8.1 Allied Prohibited Movement Zone 
The Allied player may not move any units into the area 
west of the minefield line starting in hex 0104 and 
extending through 1119. From there a line is shown on the 
map to the south board edge. No allied unit may cross this 
line to the west, nor may they cross the minefields to the 
west either during movement, advance after combat or 
retreat after combat. 
8.2 Allied 69th Brigade 
Two units of the Allied 69th Brigade must remain at all 
times in the area bounded by a line from 0104 to 0801, 
inclusive, and then to the north map edge. The third unit of 
the brigade may move around the map freely. The two 
units have brackets around their movement allowances to 
remind the Allied player of this restriction. 
 
8.3 Off Map Movement 
Allied units may exit the map on the north, east, and south 
map edges. Axis units may exit the south map edge. To do 
so they pay the same terrain costs as the hex from which 
they are exiting the map. Units that exit the map are 
placed on the turn record track two turns in advance, at 
which time they may enter as reinforcements. When they 
return they are in full supply and are not disrupted, 
regardless of their condition when they left the map. 
9.0 Zones of Control (ZOC) 
Non-Disrupted units, including Isolated and Out of Supply 
units, exert a zone of control (ZOC) into the six hexes 
surrounding the unit. 
Exception: Units do not exert a ZOC up an escarpment. 
A unit may not move from a hex in an enemy ZOC to 
another hex that is in an enemy ZOC. 
To leave a hex in an enemy ZOC costs 2 movement points in 
addition to the normal terrain costs. 
10.0 Stacking 
A maximum of two units may stack in a hex. 
Exception: No unit may stack with a unit of the Pavia or 
Brescia Divisions. (These are larger units and fill the hex) 
Stacking limits apply at the end of all movement and 
combat in a player’s action phase, end of retreat, after 
advance after combat and at the moment of combat. If a 
hex is over stacked at one of these times, the owning player 
eliminates as many units of his choice as necessary to bring 
the hex back to the stacking limit. 
11.0 Combat 
Combat is performed as part of movement and costs 
movement points and may be initiated at any point during 
the active unit’s movement. A unit may continue to move 
and initiate attacks as long as the unit has not been forced 
to Retreat and has available movement points. Combat has 
three levels of intensity: Light, Medium and Heavy attacks. 
Each type of attack also has a combat modifier associated 
with it. The cost in movement points and the combat 
modifier for each type of attack are listed on the Player 
Chart. 

Exception: No units may attack across an escarpment 
hexside except where such escarpment is crossed by a road 
or track. 
When an active unit wishes to attack, it expends the 
required number of movement points and attacks all 
adjacent enemy units. If an attacking unit, for example, is 
adjacent to four enemy units, then it must attack all four 
enemy units. All friendly units adjacent to an enemy unit 
that is being attacked may also be included in the attack, 
whether activated or not. The attacking player decides on a 
unit by unit basis which of these additional friendly units 
will be included in the attack. The only units the defender 
includes in the combat are the units adjacent to the unit 
initiating the attack, the active unit. 
 Units have two combat values, hard and soft. Hard values 
are used by the attacker against defending units as long as 
one defending unit is armor. Soft values are used by the 
attacker if the defending units contain no armor. 
The defending player uses his hard value if at least one of 
the attacking units is armor. The defender uses his soft 
value if the attacker has no armor. 
Exception: Infantry units may not initiate or participate in 
any attack in which the defender has an armor unit. Since 
an active unit that wishes to attack must attack all adjacent 
enemy units an infantry unit may not initiate an attack if it is 
adjacent to an enemy armor unit. Infantry hard combat 
values are printed in white to remind the players that these 
units may not attack armor. 
Exception: Anti-Tank units may not initiate an attack as the 
active unit. Anti-Tank units may not participate in attacks 
against infantry. Anti-Tank soft combat values are printed in 
white to remind the players that these units may not attack 
infantry units. They may participate in an attack as long as 
one of the defending units is an armor unit. 
The attacking player now adds up all of the attacking units’ 
strengths and compares that number to the combined 
strength of all of the defending units. This will yield a 
numerical odds ratio (attacker to defender). Round off the 
odds ratio downward to conform to one of the odds ratios 
found on the Combat Results Table (CRT). Attacks at less 
than 1-3 are resolved on the 1-3 column. Attacks at greater 
than 9-1 are resolved on the 9-1 column. The attacking 
player now rolls a die and applies all die roll modifiers (they 
are cumulative) for this combat to yield a final modified 
result on the CRT. A modifier is applied if any of the units on 
that side that are involved in that combat qualify for the 
modifier. For example, if one defending unit is Disrupted, 
apply the Disrupted modifier. Multiple modifiers of the 
same type are ignored. If the attacker is attacking multiple 
hexes, the terrain most beneficial to the defender is used. 
Minefield modifiers are applied in addition to the terrain of 
the hex; a maximum of one minefield modifier may be 
applied to each combat. If any attacking units are attacking 
across a minefield, the minefield modifier is applied. 
The results on the CRT are read as follows: the left side of 
the slash applies to the attacker and the right side to the 
defender. The defender applies all results first. 
A * result is the number of steps that must be lost. The first 
step loss for the attacker must come from the active unit 
which initiated the attack. Most units in the game have only 
a single step. All Allied and Italian armor units have two 
steps. All German armor has three steps. When a multiple 
step unit takes a loss simply replace the counter with the 
reduced strength unit with the next lower step number. A 
three goes to a two and a two to a one step unit. 
A “—“result indicates that the combat had no effect 
An “R” result indicates that all of the units involved must 
Retreat two hexes. See Retreat (11.1) 
A “D” result indicates that two of the units involved in the 
attack are Disrupted. If only one unit participated in the 
combat for that side, the second Disruption result is 
ignored. The first Disrupted unit for the attacker must be 
the active unit which initiated the attack; otherwise it is up 
to the owning players, both attacker and defender, to 
choose which units to Disrupt from his non Disrupted units. 
If all units have been Disrupted there is no further effect. 
The results on the CRT are cumulative. In a single combat, a 
side could lose steps, be Disrupted, and forced to Retreat; 
and the results are applied in that order. (Disrupted 
retreating units are vulnerable to enemy ZOC; see 11.1) 
Example (below): It is the first Action Phase of the game and 
the Axis player (who automatically gets the first two 
actions) has drawn the Action chit for the 15th/21st Panzer 
and has chosen to activate the 21 Panzer. The Axis then 
uses the 5/2 armor unit and some Italians who are not 
active to attack and wipe out the 3 Indian unit in 1521 and 
moves infantry around the remaining two units of the 3 
Indian. The 5/1 armor unit then moves from hex 1622, 

where it was placed as a reinforcement, to hex 1621 and 
launches an attack. The armor unit has 23 movement points 
left since it only moved one desert hex. (Being placed in a 
hex as a reinforcement does not cost movement points.) 
Unfortunately for the Axis, it costs 24 movement points to 
launch a heavy attack, so the Axis settles for spending 16 
movement points and launches a medium attack. 
The defending unit uses its hard value strength of three 
since armor is attacking. The armor uses its soft strength of 
12 since the defender is not armor. The Axis has two 
infantry units adjacent to the defending units each with a 
soft strength of four. (Units that have already moved may 
contribute to attacks initiated by another unit.) The total 
attack strength adds up to 20 and the defense is three, 
which rounds down to a 5-1. There are no modifiers, so a 
roll of six produces a result of RD. the defending unit is 
disrupted and must retreat two hexes. The defending unit is 
completely surrounded by enemy units or ZOC except on 
one side where it may retreat into a hex with the last unit of 
the 3 Indian, but this does it no good as it must retreat two 
hexes away from its original hex and all of those hexes are 
through enemy ZOC. The unit is eliminated. The 5/1 armor 
unit may now advance after combat if it so chooses. 
Regardless of whether it advances or not, the unit may 
continue to move using its remaining 7 movement points 
since it received a result which allowed advance
 
Example (below): The Italian armor unit 132/8 is the active 
unit and starts its move adjacent to the defenses of Bir 
Hacheim. It decides to attack. Since it has not moved, it may 
spend 24 movement points to launch a heavy attack. The 
defending units will be the Allied armor and infantry 
adjacent to the Axis unit, the 10/Hus and Marine. The Axis 
player may now include any other Axis units adjacent to the 
defending units. The 132/9 armor can join the attack but 
the 12Bers infantry may not because one of the defending 
units is armor and infantry may never attack armor. 
 
The attacking units will use their hard values (the first 
number on counter) because one of the defending units is 
an armor unit. The defenders will defend with their hard 
values since one of the attackers is an armor unit. The total 
attack value is 16 and the defense value is 17. The odds are 
1-2. The defender gets a -2 die roll modifier for the 
minefield and a -2 modifier for the fortification. The 
attacker then plays a combat chit for a +1 to add to his +2 
for a heavy attack and an anti-tank chit. The final modifier 
for the combat is -1 to the attackers die roll. A roll of seven 
is modified to a six, which causes both sides take a step loss. 
The attacker step loss must come from the active unit, 
132/8. The defender can choose which unit takes the step 
loss, but he will also take a step loss on the Allied armor unit 
because of the anti-tank chit. The defender chooses to put 
both steps on the Allied armor unit in the hope of rebuilding 
it later with replacements which cannot be used to rebuild 
infantry units. 
11.1 Retreat 
When a unit is required to Retreat due to a combat result, it 
must finish its retreat two hexes from its original location. 

The unit chooses its retreat path according to the guidelines 
listed below in order of priority. In other words, a unit may 
violate a higher-numbered priority in order to avoid 
violating a lower-numbered priority. If multiple units must 
Retreat, the owning player decides the order in which the 
units retreat and stacked units may retreat together. 
1. A unit may not Retreat into or through a hex it could 
not enter by normal movement. If forced to do so, the 
unit is eliminated. This includes hexes occupied by 
enemy units, escarpments not crossed by roads, un-
breached minefields for the Axis, and the Allied 
prohibited movement zone for the Allies. 
2. Friendly units negate enemy ZOC for the purposes of 
Retreat. A unit must avoid retreating into or through 
an enemy ZOC, if possible. If a unit must retreat 
through an enemy ZOC, the unit is Disrupted. If the 
unit is already Disrupted, the unit takes a step loss. 
This is done on a hex by hex basis, so the first hex 
with an enemy ZOC would Disrupt the unit, and if the 
unit then enters another enemy ZOC, the unit would 
take a step loss. Exception: If two units are stacked 
together and they are both Disrupted and the stack 
retreats into an enemy ZOC, only one step is 
eliminated. 
3. Allied units retreat North, Northwest, Northeast, or 
Southeast. Axis units retreat South, Southwest or 
Southeast. There is no penalty for retreating in the 
wrong direction if no hex is available in the proper 
direction due to enemy units, enemy ZOC, or 
impassable terrain. 
4. A unit must avoid finishing its Retreat in a hex that is 
over stacked if possible. A unit that has no choice 
because of higher priorities but to end its retreat over 
stacked may continue to retreat additional hexes until 
it reaches a hex in which it can stack legally, if such a 
hex is available. 
5. Units may retreat off any map edge, in which case 
they are placed on the turn record track two turns in 
advance, when they may enter as reinforcements. 
When they return they are in full supply and not 
disrupted. Retreat off the map is always optional; a 
unit could choose to retreat through an enemy ZOC, 
in wrong direction, etc., instead of retreating off the 
map. 
 
 
 
11.2 Advance after Combat 
If any of the defending units’ hexes are vacated as a result 
of combat, any of the attacking units—not just the active 
unit—may occupy the defenders’ vacated hexes up to the 
stacking limit. 
Exception: Allied units may not advance into the Allied 
Prohibited Movement Area. (8.1) 
Exception: Axis armor and anti-tank units may not advance 
across an un-breached minefield hexside. Axis infantry may 
advance across un-breached minefield hexes. 
ZOC have no effect on Advance after Combat. Advance 
after Combat does not cost movement points. Advance 
after combat does not cause a unit to flip to its used side. 
If eligible to Advance after Combat, the active unit that 
initiated the combat may continue to move if it has 
movement points, regardless of whether it advanced after 
combat or not. 
12.0 Disruption 
Units become Disrupted as a result of combat, retreat 
through enemy ZOC and air attacks. Disrupted units’ 
movement allowances are reduced by 1/3. This modifier is 
in addition to the modifiers for being Out of Supply or 
Isolated. For example, a unit which is both Out of Supply 
and Disrupted has its movement allowance reduced by 2/3. 
A unit that is Isolated and Disrupted has no movement 
allowance at all. 
If one or more of the defending units in a combat are 
disrupted, a +2 modifier is applied to the combat die roll. 
If one or more of the attacking units in a combat are 
disrupted, a -2 modifier is applied to the combat die roll. 
If both the attacker and defender have disrupted units 
involved in the same combat these modifiers will cancel 
each other out. 
Disrupted units have no ZOC. 
Disrupted units ignore additional Disrupted results. 
Disrupted units have their disruption removed in the 
Recovery Phase. (See 3.0 Sequence of Play.) 
 

13.0 Tactical Chits 
There are six types of Tactical Chits in the game. The 
Tactical Chits are placed in the same pool as the Action Chits 
and are randomly selected during the Action Phase. When 
pulled, Tactical Chits are placed face down in the Tactical 
Available Box on the map for use in this Action Phase or a 
later one during this turn. Exception (13.5, 13.6) When and 
how each type of Tactical Chit is played is explained in the 
rules for each type of Tactical Chit. Chits in the Tactical 
Available Box are used once and then placed in the Played 
Tactical Box, face up. In the Chit Phase, all Tactical Chits in 
the Tactical Available box and the Played Tactical Box are 
placed back in the pool of available chits (your cup). 
13.1 Combat 
This Tactical Chit allows the Axis player holding it to add one 
to the die roll of any one of his attacks or to subtract one 
from the die roll of any one of his opponent’s attacks. The 
Allied player may add two to the die roll of any one of his 
attack’s or subtract one from the die roll of any one of his 
opponent’s attacks. This chit is played after the odds and 
modifiers are calculated for an attack but before the attack 
die roll. The attacker announces first if he is using this 
Tactical Chit if both players have it available. 
13.2 Extra Move 
This Tactical Chit allows a player to activate one additional 
unit of any formation. The Extra Move Chit does not need to 
be played in the action it is drawn, it may be saved for a 
later action during the turn. It may be played right after a 
friendly Action Chit has been used to activate a formation or 
individual unit but before any of the units move or attack. 
The unit activated by the extra move is now part of the 
group of activated units and the player may move these 
activated units in any sequence he desires. 
13.3 Replacement 
Replacements represent the repair of vehicles and the 
reserves of tanks held in the rear areas. Replacements may 
only be used by armored units 
The Replacement Chit does not need to be played in the 
action it is drawn, it may be saved for a later action during 
the turn. It may be played right after a friendly Action Chit is 
pulled but before the player decides which units to activate. 
The unit being replaced can be from any formation; it is not 
limited to the formation of the Action Chit pulled. 
This chit allows the player to replace one step loss from a 
multiple step unit by removing a reduced strength unit and 
replacing it with the next higher step unit. A one-step unit 
becomes a two, a two-step unit becomes a three. 
Alternatively, the player may rebuild an eliminated one-step 
unit, including reduced strength units, from among the units 
destroyed. Rebuilt Axis units are placed anywhere in the 
area prohibited to Allied movement. Rebuilt Allied units are 
placed on any North or East map edge hex. 
When rebuilding a unit from one step to two, two to three, 
or rebuilding a one-step unit and placing it on the map, the 
following conditions apply: the hex must be in supply and 
not enemy occupied nor in an enemy ZOC. Stacking limits 
apply after replacements have been placed. 
A rebuilt unit may be activated normally in the Action Phase 
in which it is rebuilt. 
13.4 Air 
The Air Tactical Chit must be played the moment it is drawn. 
If it is drawn after a Sandstorm chit was previously drawn in 
the current Action Phase, the Air Chit is considered played 
and had no effect. Otherwise apply in the following manner: 
Allied: player may immediately attack any Axis unit with an 
Air Attack. Roll one die: on a 0-2 the unit is Disrupted. 
Axis: player may immediately attack any Allied unit with an 
Air Attack. Roll one die: on a 0-1 the Allied unit losses a 
step. On a 2-6 the Allied unit is Disrupted. Allied units in a 
fortified hex receive a +2 modifier to the Axis die roll. 
13.5 Sandstorm 
A Sandstorm chit must be played the moment it is drawn. 
All movement is reduced by 2/3 for the following action. 
(the next friendly formation that is activated)This modifier is 
in addition to any modifiers for Disruption, Out of Supply 
and Isolation. This means that during a Sandstorm no unit 
suffering from one of the above-named conditions will be 
able to move during this Action Phase. 
13.6 Anti-Tank (Axis Only) 
An Anti- Tank chit increases Allied armor losses by one step 
in any combat it is used, offense or defense. The chit is 
played after the odds and modifiers are calculated for the 
attack but before the attack die roll. The loss from the anti-
tank chit is taken by the Allied player after the combat die 
roll, but before any other losses are applied. 

Exception: An Anti-Tank chit may not be played if the only 
Axis units involved in the combat are from the Pavia, Brescia 
or Trieste Divisions. 
13.7 Withdraw/Attack (Allied Only) 
The Withdraw/Attack Chit need not be played in the action 
in which it is drawn. It may be played during any of the 
actions of the turn immediately after a friendly Action Chit 
has been pulled. It may be played two ways—as a 
withdrawal or as an attack. If it is not played during a turn 
as either a withdrawal or an attack, then the Axis player 
receives one victory point added to his victory point track. 
If played as a withdrawal, all units of a single formation, and 
its Action chit, if there is one, is permanently removed from 
the game. Any unit that may not trace a path free of enemy 
units to the board edge may not be removed from the map. 
The units removed from the map do not count as 
eliminated for victory points. Any units of that formation 
that have already been eliminated do count for victory 
points. The Allied player may withdraw a formation that has 
had all of its units eliminated. (This is often done to remove 
from the pool the Action chit of a formation that has been 
eliminated) The Allied player may not withdraw the same 
formation more than once per game. 
By withdrawing units, the Allied player can create a 
situation in which he has more actions available in a turn 
than action chits in the pool to be drawn. In this case the 
extra actions are wasted and cannot be used. 
If the Allied player does not play the chit as a withdrawal, it 
may be played as a mandatory attack. The Allied player 
plays the Withdraw/Attack chit immediately after a friendly 
Action chit is pulled and then attacks any Axis unit in that 
Action Phase with ground units. The mandatory attack gives 
no benefit in combat. 
13.8 Playing Multiple Tactical Chits 
The Extra Move, Replacement, and Withdraw/Attack 
Tactical Chits may all only be played after a friendly Action 
Chit, but any number of them may be played after the same 
Action Chit, and in whatever order the player desires. 
Example: The Allied player has pulled the Action Chit for the 
22nd Armor Brigade, and decides first to use a Withdraw Chit 
to remove the remains of the 4th Armor Brigade, followed 
by using an Extra Move Chit to activate the 5 GH Battalion 
of the 150th Brigade, and then the replacement chit to build 
up a unit of the 2nd Armor Brigade. 
14.0 Minefields 
Axis units may not move across a minefield hexside unless it 
is breached. Allied units may move across a minefield 
hexside at a cost of 12 movement points. Roads and tracks 
do not negate the effects of minefields. 
Axis infantry units may advance after combat across an un-
breached minefield hexside. Axis units may not retreat 
across an un-breached minefield hexside, including Axis 
infantry. 
Axis supply may not be traced across a minefield hexside 
unless it is breached. Allied supply may be traced across a 
minefield hexside, breached or un-breached. 
An attack across an un-breached minefield hexside receives 
a -2 combat modifier. This applies to both Axis and Allies. 
Some of the minefields on the map were constructed during 
the battle. These minefields have no effect until the 
minefield phase of the turn in which they are completed: 
Hex 1102: June 5-6 
Line from 0204 to 0801, inclusive: June 9-10 
14.1 Breaching Minefields 
Starting on the May 28th turn, the Axis player may breach 
minefield hexsides. The Axis player may only attempt to 
place two breach markers per turn. If a minefield hexside is 
breached, that hexside is now treated as if the minefield did 
not exist; it no longer has any effect on movement, supply 
or combat for either side. 
 The Axis player is limited to the total number of breach 
counters provided in the game. They may not be removed 
or reused once a breach has been made. 
During the Minefield phase the Axis player may place a 
breach maker in any hex adjacent to a minefield hexside 
that contains an Axis infantry unit. The breach counter, with 
its under construction side facing up, is placed pointing 
toward the minefield hexside that the Axis player is trying to 
breach. The Axis unit may not move, attack, or retreat 
during the following Action Phases. At the start of the 
Minefield Phase in the next game turn the minefield is 
considered breached and the marker, still pointing at its 
target hexside, is flipped to its breached side unless an 

Allied unit occupies the hex on the opposite side of the 
breach. In this case the breach does not occur and the Axis 
player removes the breach counter from the map. He may 
now attempt to breach a new hexside, try the same hexside 
again in the hopes of driving off the Allied unit with other 
forces, or just save the marker for an attempt in a later turn. 
If a breach is successful, the minefield hexside on the 
opposite side of the minefield hex from the hexisde that 
was just breached is also breached if there are no Allied 
units adjacent to it. Position the breach maker in the middle 
of the minefield box to indicate the two hexsides on 
opposite sides of the hex that have been breached. (The 
absence of Allied units has allowed the Axis infantry unit to 
clear a straight path all the way across the minefield in a 
single turn.) 
If the Axis player forms a breach in one hexside of a 
minefield box, and then in a later turn an Axis unit manages 
to breach the hexside on the opposite side of the box (this 
would require the unit to be adjacent to the hexside), the 
Axis player may then reposition one of the breach markers 
so that it marks both breaches, thus allowing him to remove 
the other breach marker from the map. (Remember, the 
number of breach markers is limited.) 
Example: In the first 
illustration (left) three 
Axis infantry units have 
placed under 
construction markers 
during the minefield 
phase showing that 
they are attempting to 
breach minefield hexes 
adjacent to them in 
1314, 1315 and 1316. 
The Axis infantry in 
1217 may place an 
under construction 
marker to attempt to 
breach into hex 1316 
even though an enemy 
unit is present. (The 
Axis can only place two breach markers but I needed 
examples for three possible outcomes.) 
The second illustration (below) shows the same area a turn 
later during the minefield phase. The breach attempt from 
1215 to 1314 was not completed because the Allies moved 
a unit to hex 1314. The breach attempt from 1216 to 1315 
was successful and the marker was turned to its breach side 
showing a path through the minefield into hex 1315. Finally 
the breach attempt from 1217 to 1316 was able to breach 
into 1316 and into the hex on the other side 1416 because 
no Allied units were in hex 1416. (Allied unit that was in 
1316 moved elsewhere during the turn)
 
14.2 Minefields and Axis Actions 
Starting on the May 29 turn, the Axis players must be able 
to trace a line of communication (LOC) during the Supply 
Phase from the west map edge through a breached 
minefield hex, from 0104 to 1118 inclusive, to at least eight 
Axis units. The LOC may not be traced through enemy units, 
escarpments not crossed by a road, or an un-breached 
enemy minefield. The LOC may not cross into a breached 
minefield hex and then back into the Allied Prohibited 
Movement Area. If the Axis player cannot fulfill this 
requirement his actions are reduced by one for that turn. 
Starting on the Jun 1-2 turn, the Axis player must be able to 
trace two LOC during the Supply Phase from the west map 
edge through two breached minefield hexes, from 0104 to 
1118 inclusive, or his actions will be reduced. Each LOC 
must be able to trace to at least eight Axis units. The LOC 
may not cross into a breached minefield hex and then back 
into the Allied Prohibited Movement Area. For the purposes 
of this rule, the Axis player may not trace both LOC to the 
same unit. If the Axis player cannot fulfill these 
requirements his actions are reduced by one for the turn. 

Historical Note: The Axis LOC around Bir Hacheim at the 
bottom of the map was long and vulnerable and could not 
supply the main Axis attack for long. Opening up other 
routes through the Allied minefields and keeping them open 
was a necessity if the Axis forces were to survive. 
15.0 Reinforcements 
Reinforcements become available according to the 
Reinforcement Schedule. (15.1) All reinforcing units must be 
placed in their arrival hexes when the unit or its formation is 
activated for the first time. Some reinforcing units have 
multiple arrival hexes and they may be placed in any of 
them. A player may use an Extra Move Tactical Chit or 
another formation’s action chit to activate an individual 
reinforcing unit. An arriving reinforcement may not be 
placed in a hex occupied by an enemy unit; it may be placed 
in an enemy ZOC. 
A unit spends no movement points to be placed in the 
reinforcement hex. A reinforcing unit is an active unit and 
may move and fight with its full movement allowance. 
Multiple units may be placed in the same reinforcement hex 
during an Action Phase, creating a temporary over stacked 
hex, which must be corrected before the next time stacking 
is judged, (10.0) or the excess units will be eliminated. If a 
reinforcing unit does not enter on the turn it is scheduled to 
arrive because the unit or formation was never activated or 
the arrival hexes were blocked, the unit(s) are available as 
reinforcements during all following turns. 
The Allied player has several turns in which he receives 
armor replacements as reinforcements. These replacements 
arrive in the supply phase and are spent at that point 
rebuilding any Allied armor units using the normal 
procedures (13.3). Exception: The Allied player may spend 
two replacements on a two-step eliminated unit and place it 
back on the map, something that is impossible with a 
replacement chit. These replacements must be used in the 
turn of arrival; they may not be saved for later turns. 
15.1 Reinforcement Schedule 
Axis 
May 27a: 21 Panzer-all units in 1321, 1422, 1521, 1622, 
1721. 
May 27a: 15 Panzer-all units in 1622, 1721, 1822, 1921, 
2022. 
May 27a: 90 Light-all units in 1721, 1822, 1921, 2022, 2121. 
June 7-8: Brescia-all units in 0108, 0109, 0110. 
Allies (all units in north or east map edge hexes) 
May 27p: 7 Motor (2 KR Rifle Corps). 
May 29: 29 Indian-all units, 3 tank replacements. 
June 1-2: 151 Infantry (9 Durham Light), 2 tank 
replacements. 
June 3-4: 10 Indian-all units, 9 Indian (3/9 Jat, 2 W. 
Yorkshire), Independent (Cumberland) 
June 5-6: 32 ATB-all units. 
June 9-10: 1 tank replacement 
16.0 Victory Conditions 
During the Victory Point Phase of each turn the Axis player 
collects one victory point if at least four Axis units that are 
not Out of Supply or Isolated are located in hexes on the 
north map edge. A victory point marker is provided to keep 
track of the Axis total on the victory point track. 
During the Victory Point Phase of each turn the Axis player 
collects one victory point if an Axis unit occupies hex 2803. 
The maximum number of victory points the Axis may collect 
during the game is 19. Note that in Scenario One the Axis 
starts with two victory points. The Allies do not collect 
victory points during the game. 
At the end of the game the Axis player receives one victory 
point for each enemy step eliminated and the Allied player 
receives two victory points for each enemy step eliminated. 
Steps that have been replaced do not count as eliminated 
for victory points. 
The player with the most victory points wins. If both players 
have the same number of victory points the game is a tie. 
17.0 Scenarios 
Scenario One 
First Turn: May 27 AM Last Turn: June 1-2 
Victory Conditions: In addition to the normal rules (16.0), 
the Allied player collects one victory point for each Allied-
occupied fortified hex at the end of this scenario. The Axis 
player starts with 2VP marked on the VP track 
Estimated playing time: 3.5 hours 
Allies: Set up first, one unit per hex, unused side up unless 
otherwise noted. 

3 Indian- all units within 1 hex of 1520 
7 Motor (2 Rifle Brigade, 9 KR Rifle Corps) within 2 hexes of 
2720 used side up. 
9 Indian-3/12 Frontier in 2705 
1 Free Fr. -all units in hexes 1218,1219,1318,1118 
201 Guards-all units 1504, 1605 two units per hex 
150 Infantry-all units within 2 hexes of 0810 
22 Armour-all units within 1 hex of 1310 
4 Armour-all units within 3 hexes of 2615 
2 Armour-all units within 1 hex of1901 
1 ATB-all units within 1 hex of 0806 
69 Infantry-all units within 3 hexes of 0201 
Axis: may start stacked, unused side up. 
Trieste-all units within 3 hexes of 0517 
Ariete-all units within one hex of 1321 
Pavia-all units within 2 hexes of 0110 
Campaign Game 
First Turn: May 27 AM Last Turn: June 13-14 
Victory Conditions: In addition to the normal rules (16.0), 
the Allied player collects two victory points per hex for 
occupying 1504, 1605, 2705 and 3 victory points per hex for 
occupying 1118, 1218, 1219, 1318. 
Estimated playing time: 7 hours 
Set Up: same as Scenario One 
18.0 Players Notes 
Axis Player: In order to win, the Axis player needs to 
eliminate a large number of Allied units and also to capture 
some of the geographical objectives on the map that are 
worth victory points (VP), while at the same time keeping 
his own losses to a minimum. The one VP gained per turn 
for having a unit in 2803 or for having four units in a hex 
along the north map edge are good ways of picking up some 
VP; advancing towards these objectives also has the 
advantage of spreading the Allied defenses. You can also 
pick up some VP by destroying the Allied units in the 
fortified hexes, but be warned—it will require a substantial 
investment of both time and force to blast them out. The 
Axis also needs to be patient. In many games the Axis will 
appear to be losing, but then the Allies collapse towards the 
end, especially in Scenario One, which has a final turn in 
which the Axis has four actions and the Allies only one. 
The Axis player needs to give some thought to the minefield 
breaching rules right from the start of the game. Set up the 
Trieste and Pavia divisions adjacent to the minefields. 
Gaining control of the gap in the rear minefield between 
hexes 1214 and 1313 is critical, as is controlling the triangle 
of open ground that is surrounded by the minefields north 
of Bir Hacheim. 
Allied Player: You have more forces than your opponent, 
and eliminated units cost you only half as many VP as the 
Axis player, so aim to whittle away the enemy with 
exchanges. Low odds attacks with positive modifiers on the 
die roll work to your advantage. Look to attack Axis infantry 
units that are not protected by armor with Allied infantry 
units, and go after Axis armor when it is used or damaged. 
Make the Axis player work hard to establish a LOC, and then 
try to maneuver behind his units to cut it off. Remember, it 
takes a turn to breach a minefield, and you have time to 
move a unit into place to block the attempt. 
Study your reinforcement schedule, especially your tank 
replacements. This will tell you when you can be a little 
more aggressive with your armor, since the replacements 
are use them or lose them. Also note the changes in the 
number of actions during each turn and the different units 
that are available in the pool each turn. This can help guide 
your overall plan. 
19.0 Designer’s Notes 
This game uses the same basic system as our game “Celles” 
with a few changes. Minefields were added and infiltration 
was deleted (hard to do with no cover). Hard and Soft 
combat factors were introduced to show that these units 
were not combined arms teams and no effective infantry 
anti-tank weapons were available. Supply is even easier to 
trace in terrain that could be driven over in almost any 
direction and the tactical chits are slightly different to 
reflect the different battle. 
Playtest Credits-Richard White, Michael Fostar, Dave 
Alston, David Moody, Richard Handewith, Joe 
Oppenheimer, Russ Rider 
Rules Editing-Gary Miller