Game idea
In this game, you take the roles of adventurous dwarfs living reclusively in caves where you dig for ore and rubies and furnish caverns 
to become living and working areas. You need ore to craft weapons to undertake expeditions in search of adventure and loot. Rubies 
are a valuable and highly flexible good: you can trade them for other goods and landscape tiles at any time. Outside your caves, you 
will look after your sustenance by felling trees, raising farm animals and doing some agriculture.
At the end of the game, the wealthiest dwarf will win.
Components
Wooden & acrylic playing pieces
20 light brown Dog tokens 
35 white Sheep tokens
30 grey Donkey tokens
30 black Wild boar tokens
30 brown Cattle tokens
45 brown Wood tokens
25 grey Stone tokens
 45 black (acrylic) Ore gems
 20 red (acrylic) Ruby gems
 40 yellow Grain tokens
 35 orange Vegetable tokens
 1 yellow Starting player token
7x3 Stables in different colors
7x5 Dwarf discs in different colors
16 Game boards 
7 large Home boards (Forest on the 
left, Mountain on the right)
1 small basic game board with 3 
preprinted Action spaces and Round 
spaces 1 to 3
1 large basic game board with Round spaces 4 to 12
1 two-sided basic game board with preprinted Action spaces for 1 
to 3 players on one side (and for 4 to 7 players on the other side)
1 large additional game board (with additional Action spaces for 
5 players on one side and for 6 to 7 players on the other side) 
1 small additional game board (with additional Action spaces for 
3 players on one side and for 7 players on the other side) 
4 longish supply boards to organize the Furnishing tiles
On counter sheets
20 Gold coins labeled “1”
24 Gold coins labeled “2”
 5 Gold coins labeled “10” 
 1 “Additional dwarf” marker
88 “1 Food” markers
 7 round Harvest markers 
52 Weapon strength markers 
 (1x “1”, 1x “2”, 4x each of “3” to “13”, and 6x “14”)
 8 Multiplication markers “4x” 
 (on the other side: Begging markers “-3 Gold”)
 8 Goods markers (“8 Sheep”, “8 Donkeys”, “8 Wild boars”, 
 “8 Cattle”, “10 Wood”, “10 Stone”, “10 Ore”, “5 	Rubies”)
 2 “8 Animals” markers
Furnishing and landscape tiles
17 identical “Dwelling” Furnishing tiles
47 other unique Furnishing tiles
 8 single tiles “Tunnel” (on the other side: “Cavern”)
16 single tiles “Ruby mine” (on the other side: “Field”)
16 single tiles “Meadow” (on the other side: “Small 
pasture”)
24 twin tiles “Ore mine/Deep tunnel” 
 (on the other side: “Large pasture”)
40 twin tiles “Cavern/Tunnel” 
 (on the other side: “Cavern/Cavern”)
40 twin tiles “Meadow/Field” 
 (on the other side: Small pasture/Field)
29 Playing cards
 1 “Harvest events” card
12 Action space cards 
 with Action spaces for rounds 1 to 12
 7 Overview cards “Rubies, Harvest time”
 7 Overview cards “Expedition loot” 
 (values 1 to 8 on one side and 9 to 14 on the other side)
 2 Dwarf cards for the solo and 2-player game
also
scoring pad
bags to organize the components
24 page rule book
 8 page appendix with details on Expeditions, 
 the Furnishing tiles and the Action spaces
You can play this game with up to 7 players. For your first 
play, we recommend you only play with 5 players at most 
to reduce downtime.
Caverna is a development strategy game for 1 to 7 players aged 12 and up.
The playing time is about 30 minutes per player.
Uwe Rosenberg advises:

Setup
We will explain the game for 2 to 7 players first. The solo rules will be explained on the last page.
Your personal playing areas
Each player chooses a color and takes the Home 
board and the 5 Dwarfs and 3 Stables of that color.
Place 2 of the 5 Dwarfs side by side in the “Entry-
level dwelling” on your Home board. Keep the 
remaining 3 Dwarfs and Stables next to your Home 
board as your personal supply. 
(Return the Dwarfs, Stables and Home boards of the 
leftover colors to the game box.)
Then take one of each of the 2 different Overview 
cards.
Randomly determine the player who gets the 
Starting player token. The Starting player and the 
player to his left each get 1 Food. The third player 
gets 2 Food. Each other player gets 3 Food.
The game boards with Action spaces
Place the two single-sided basic game boards with 
Round spaces 1 to 3 and 4 to 12 next to each other. 
Shuffle the 7 Harvest markers and place them 
face-down (with the grey rune symbol facing 
up) on the Round spaces 6 to 12, one marker per 
space. Place the “Harvest events” card next to the 
game boards.
In a 2-player game, remove one of the Harvest markers with a green leaf from the game. Then distribute the 
remaining 6 markers among the Round spaces 6 to 12 leaving space 9 empty.
Place the third basic game board to the left of the first two. Turn it to the appropriate side depending 
on the number of players (1 to 3, or 4 to 7 players).
There are two additional game boards. 
	 In games with 5 to 7 players, the larger additional game board is used. Turn it to the appropriate 
side depending on the number of players (5, or 6 to 7 players). 
	 The smaller additional game board is used in games with 3 or 7 players. 
Place the required additional game boards to the left of the basic ones. 
We recommend you cover the Dwarfs in your 
supply with Stables to avoid using them by 
accident before you are allowed to.
Your first two Dwarfs live together in the 
entry-level room of their cave.
Players get a different number of Food depending on their position in the turn order.
The 7 harvest markers 
are put face-down on 
the game boards.
2nd player
3rd player
4th player
5th player
6th player
7th player
Strip mining
Large depot
in clockwise order
Stables

Place the supply boards for the Furnishing 
tiles near the other game boards.
The supply boards and Furnishing tiles
The supply boards are double-sided. One side is used in the Introductory 
game, the other side is used in the Full game. The Full game comes with 
a larger variety of Furnishing tiles. (Put the unused Furnishing tiles back 
into the game box when playing an Introductory game.)
Place the Furnishing tiles on the appropriate spaces on the supply boards. There is more than one ordinary 
“Dwelling” tile. Place some of them on the appropriate space on the supply board and keep the rest next to it as 
a reserve.
The Action space cards
Shuffle the 12 Action space cards. Keep them face-down while shuffling.
In the 2-player game, only 11 Action space cards are used. Remove the “Exploration” card with the “Level 
4 expedition” from the game. (Cover the unused Round space 9 with a Dwarf card.) 
Rearrange the shuffled Action space 
cards into a face-down stack as follows 
without looking at them. 
	 Put the three stage 4 cards at the bottom of the stack, on top of them the three (or two) stage 3 cards, and on top of those 
the two ordinary stage 2 cards. 
	 Put the card for round 4 on top of these. (This card says “Wish for children” on one side and “Urgent wish for children” 
on the other side. Right now it does not matter which side faces up.) 
	 Finally, put the three stage 1 cards on top of the stack. 
The landscape tiles
Sort the landscape tiles by type and put them in separate stacks. 
There are 3 types of both, single tiles and twin tiles.
The building materials, animals 
and Weapon strength markers
Separate the remaining components and keep them in separate 
piles next to the game boards. All the animals may be kept in 
one pile and all the building materials in another. You do not 
need to sort the Weapon strength markers by number.
The 12 Action space cards rearranged 
after shuffling. You can fan them out or 
keep them in a stack.
This is the setup for a 3-player game. 
Especially in a 3-player game, players 
tend to forget about the additional 
game board. Place the supply boards 
near the other game boards as you 
see fit. 
There is a sufficient number of ordinary “Dwelling” 
tiles (costing 4 wood and 3 stone). You do not need to 
put all of them on the supply board. Replenish them 
incrementally from time to time when needed.
When playing with 6 or 7 
players, we recommend 
that you start with the Full 
game to make sure that 
there is a sufficient number 
of Furnishing tiles in play.
Forest exploration
Strip mining
Supplies
Wood gathering
supply boards
additional 
game 
board
basic game boards
“Harvest events” card
Simple dwelling
Simple dwelling
Cuddle room
Room for as many
as you have
Breakfast room
Room for 
up to 
Stubble room
you may keep 
1 Farm animal on 
each empty Field
You will place single and twin tiles on your Home 
boards during the course of the game. Fields and 
Meadows (which can be further upgraded to Pastures) 
can be placed on Forest spaces; Caverns and Tunnels 
(which can be further upgraded to Mines) can be 
placed on Mountain spaces. 

Caverns can be furnished like the one 
at the bottom of this illustration or they 
can be empty like the one at the top. 
Dwellings are special types of furnished 
Caverns. There are a lot of other ways to 
furnish a Cavern.
empty Cavern
Cut the Forest to make room for 
Fields and Meadows.
These are Rubies.
Meadows can be fenced in to 
form Pastures for your Farm ani-
mals: simply turn the “Meadow/
Field” twin tile to the other side. 
A fenced space can hold a pair of 
animals.
Goal of the game
Your Home board consists of two parts (see below). On the left side, there is a Forest that you 
will cut down during the course of the game. On the right side, there is a Mountain with an 
entrance to your cave system, which currently consists of two Caverns. One of these is the 
“Entry-level dwelling” and has been furnished for 2 Dwarfs and a pair of animals. The other 
Cavern is still empty, but is ready to be furnished.
Your first two Dwarfs live in the entry-level room of 
your cave system. If you want to grow your Dwarf 
family, you will need to add more Dwellings. There 
are Furnishing tiles for this purpose as you have 
already seen during setup.
Each of your Dwarfs may take one action per round – the available actions are displayed on 
the game boards. You will place your Dwarfs, one at a time, in clockwise order on Action 
spaces until all players have placed their Dwarfs on the game boards.
The goal of your actions is to collect Food for your Dwarfs and to develop your Home board 
to be worth a lot of Gold points at the end of the game. Let us have a look at what you can do 
with your Home board and what you get Gold points for.
To get a grasp of what happens on your Home boards
You cut the Forest on your Home board to get Wood and cut through the Mountain to get Stone. You need these building 
materials to furnish the hollowed out spaces of your Mountain. Outside the Mountain, you can use the cleared Forest land 
to do agriculture and raise Farm animals to feed your little family.
Collect Rubies to buy single 
“Field” and “Meadow” tiles for 
1 Ruby each.
Place your first “Meadow/Field” 
tile on the Forest spaces in front 
of your cave entrance.
Expand your cave 
system by placing 
“Cavern/Tunnel” and 
“Cavern/Cavern” twin 
tiles in the Mountain.
Or expand your cave system with 
single tiles bought with Rubies: 
a single Tunnel costs 1 Ruby, a 
single Cavern costs 2 Rubies. 
(Rubies have many other uses as 
we will see later.)
Your “Entry-level dwelling” is a Dwelling 
for your very first couple of Dwarfs. You 
can also keep a pair of animals there.
When placing your Dwarfs on the game boards, you will eventually get in one another’s way. Each 
Action space may only be occupied by a single Dwarf. The Dwarfs only return home after they have 
all been placed. Then they are placed again in the next round.
While reading the rules, you may come back to the following section every now and then to get a 
better view of the context. This section is not required for understanding the rules. Any information 
found here is also explained elsewhere in the rule book.

Weapons and Expeditions
Veteran “Agricola” players may be highly interested in what the Weapons are for. In Caverna, your Dwarfs 
gather Ore to forge Weapons. The strength of a Weapon is determined by the amount of Ore used in the 
process and is increased by 1 after each Expedition. Depending on its level, an Expedition may yield 1 to 4 loot 
items. What these items will be depends on the strength of the Weapon that has been used (see the Overview 
card). A newly forged Weapon can only have an initial strength equal to or lower than 8. This strength can be 
increased over the course of the game to the maximum strength value of 14.
The special thing about the ‘Cave Farmers’ is the two groups that emerge when playing with a lot of 
players: one group goes after Weapons, the other one pursues the peaceful route. Members of the 
same group, of course, will compete for the same resources. Be vigilant about the competition within 
your group, so you do not lose against the other one.
There are more ways to keep animals than shown on the previous page. 
at any time 
before scoring
Blacksmithing parlor
You can place a Stable on 
a Forest space (that you 
have not cleared, yet): A 
Forest stable can hold 1 
Wild boar, but no other 
animals. 
You can place Furnishing tiles in 
the Caverns of your cave system. 
These tiles can be beneficial to 
you during the course of the game 
or at its end.
You can 
place an 
on two 
adjacent 
Tunnels. 
You can “multiply” animals 
as well. This Large pasture is 
currently holding 4 Wild boars.
Number of components
The only components that are purposely limited in number (apart from the unique 
Furnishing tiles) are the 5 Dwarfs and 3 Stables of each player. Any other components are 
considered to be unlimited. If you run out of any such component, use the Multiplication 
markers or improvise. Put a good token on a Multiplication marker to indicate 4 tokens of 
that type.
There are markers depicting 8 animals of a specific type. These can be used on Large 
pastures with a Stable. Also, there are markers for 10 units of a specific type of building 
material or for 5 Rubies.
Each Mine can hold 
1 Donkey.
Blacksmithing :
This Dwarf gets the best Weapon he can get via forging.
The available loot items 
up to a strength of 8.
You can place a “Large pasture” on two adja-
cent Meadow spaces to keep your animals more 
efficiently. You can even double its capacity by 
building a Stable on it. You can keep up to 8 
animals of the same type on a Large pasture with 
a Stable.
You can also build a 
Stable on a Meadow 
space. A Meadow 
stable can hold 
1 animal of any type.
You can grow Grain and 
Vegetables on your Fields 
and harvest them later.
There are ordinary 
Tunnels, and Deep 
tunnels in Ore mines. 
You can place a 
Ruby mine on any 
of these Tunnels. If 
you place one on a 
Deep tunnel, you will 
immediately gain 
1 Ruby.
This table displays how to 
feed your family.

at any time 
before scoring
Blacksmithing parlor
Ruby supplier
at the beginning
of the next 4 rounds
Breeding cave
for 1/2/3/4 
newborn animals:
Farm 
Fodder chamber
Let us have a look at the scoring pad
At the end of the game, the player with the most Gold points wins. In the following example, we will have a look at the ways 
you can score points. The numbers in parentheses are the points gained in the example.
Flow of play
This section consists of two parts. At first, we will look at the course of a round. Then we will explain the actions.
The course of a round
Each of the 12 rounds goes through five phases that 
are played one after another in the order described here. 
In the 2-player game, there are 
only 11 rounds to play.
Each animal is worth 1 Gold point. There are 
Dogs, and the Farm animals Sheep, Donkeys, 
Wild boars, and Cattle. (2+4+2+3+10=21)
Furnishing tiles are worth the number of points 
printed on them. (2+2+2=6, and 3+3=6 for the 
Dwellings that have been built during the game)
Mines are worth the 
number of points 
printed on them. 
(4+3+4=11)
You lose 1 point for 
each unused space of 
your Home board. 
Some Furnishing tiles may 
award additional points. 
(The “Fodder storage” 
awards 6 Gold points for 19 
Farm animals.) 
Each Dwarf 
is worth 1 
Gold point. 
Vegetables, Rubies and 
Gold are each worth 1 
Gold point. 
(4+1+13=18)
Grain is worth ½ Gold 
point (rounded up) 
regardless of whether 
it has been already 
harvested or not. 
You lose 2 points for each type of Farm 
animal that you are missing. (This Home 
board is not missing any type of animals.)
Pastures are worth the 
number of points printed 
on them. (2+4=6)
-3
The player in this example has 
got a total of 80 Gold points.
A score of 80 Gold points is a 
realistic one. Advanced players 
will easily crack 100 points.
Players who have already played ‘Agricola’ 
only need to read the brown sentences. 
All the other rules are the same in both 
‘Caverna’ and ‘Agricola’.

Overview of the course of a round
The five phases of a round are:
1. Add a new Action space
At the beginning of each round, turn over the top 
Action space card and put it on the appropriate space 
on the basic game boards.
This is where you will place the first 
Action space card in Round 1. 
2. Replenish accumulating spaces
Place goods from the general supply on the Action 
spaces that require them. These Action spaces show 
an arrow.
The accumulation arrow
3. Work phase 
In clockwise order, take turns to place 1 Dwarf per 
turn on an Action space on the game boards. Then 
carry out the actions on that space. Each Action space 
may only be occupied by a single Dwarf.
This Dwarf is forging a Weapon.
4. Return home
After all Dwarfs have been placed on Action spaces, 
return your Dwarfs to their Dwellings.
5. Harvest time
At the end of most of the rounds, there is a harvest: 
collect Grain and Vegetables, feed your family, and 
breed your animals.
1. Add a new Action space
Turn over the top Action space card from the stack and put it on the empty Round 
space with the lowest number. (The Round spaces are numbered 1 to 12.) 
The new Action space adds to the number of 
available actions. It can be used by any player in 
the Work phase of this and all subsequent rounds. 
From the start of round 6, you must also turn the 
Harvest marker on the Round space where the new 
Action space card is placed face-up. Leave the 
marker on the grey rune space.
The first Round 
space reminds you 
to check if you need 
additional game 
boards
There is a grey rune symbol on the back 
side of each Harvest marker, and a green 
leaf or red question mark on the front side.
If the Harvest marker shows a green leaf, 
there will be a normal harvest at the end 
of the round (see page 9).
If it shows a red question mark, the harvest 
will be played differently (see “Which 
rounds end with a harvest?”, page 10).

Special cases when adding a new Action space
The “Wish for children” Action space card will always come into 
play in round 4. Initially, place it with the “Wish for children” 
side facing up on the game board. Turn it to the other side that 
says “Urgent wish for children” as soon as you add the “Family 
life” Action space card in stage 3. 
	
In the 2-player game, the last round of stage 3 – round 9 – is skipped, 
as the “Exploration” Action space card was removed from the game (see 
“Setup”, page 3).
2. Replenish accumulating spaces
On many Action spaces, there is a special arrow and a background illustration indicating 
that this space has to be replenished with goods every round. These Action spaces are called 
“accumulating spaces”. 
Accumulating spaces have to be replenished even if there are goods left on them from previous 
rounds. “3 Wood” and an arrow, for instance, indicate that you put 3 Wood on that Action space 
every round.
There is an exception: “3 (1) Wood” and an arrow, for instance, indicate that you put 1 Wood on that Action space every 
round – unless that Action space is empty, in which case you put 3 Wood on it. Read the icons of other Action spaces 
accordingly. “1 Grain (1 Vegetable)” on the “Sustenance” Action space, for instance, means you have to put 1 Grain on that 
space if it is empty, and 1 Vegetable instead if not.
3. Work phase
Beginning with the Starting player and in clockwise order, take turns to pick up a single Dwarf from your cave and 
place it on an unoccupied Action space. Then carry out the depicted action immediately. Play continues until all 
Dwarfs of all players have been placed in this fashion. 
Please note the play order of Dwarfs: You have to place your Dwarfs 
in ascending order of their Weapon strength, beginning with your 
unarmed Dwarfs (i.e. those without a Weapon) and followed by your 
armed ones (i.e. those bearing a Weapon).
Each Action space can only be used by one Dwarf in a round. 
Whenever you take building materials, Grain, Vegetables, Food or Rubies, the 
tokens are placed in your personal supply in view of the other players. Animals may 
not be placed in your supply; they must be placed directly on your Home board. (See 
page 20 for the animal husbandry rules that we have already addressed briefly on 
page 5.)
A red question mark has been revealed: The 
“Harvest events” card determines which 
event will affect the coming harvest. In this 
example, it will be the event at the top of the 
card.
If you like the element of surprise, we 
recommend you reveal the Harvest marker 
only at the end of a round.
Family life
wish for children
:
That’s the way it is with small 
families: Over time a wish for 
children will become an urgent wish.
These Dwarfs have to be played in the indicated order.
This is an accumulating space.
Details on replenishing accumulating spaces
	 When replenishing, take the required goods from the general supply.
	 There is no upper limit for the number of goods on an accumulating space. 
	 If you run out of a specific good, use the Multiplication markers or improvise (see page 5) 
Wood, Stone and Ore are building materials.
Example:

wish for children
Adventure
4. Return home
Remove your Dwarfs from the game boards and return them to their Dwellings.
5. Harvest time
During the Harvest time, players have to sustain their families. Some rounds do 
not end with a harvest, others do (see “Which rounds end with a harvest?” on 
page 10). A harvest goes through three sub-phases that are played in the following 
order (see the “Harvest time” Overview card).
	 Sub-phase 1: The Field phase 
	
Remove 1 Grain or Vegetable token from each sown Field on your Home board 
and place it in your personal supply. (See page 14 for information on how to 
grow crops.) 
	 Sub-phase 2: The Feeding phase
	
In the Feeding phase, you have to feed your Dwarfs by paying 2 Food per Dwarf in your cave. Offspring that were born 
during the current round from a “Family growth” action only consume 1 Food for this round, but will require 2 Food in 
future harvests. (See page 15 for details on Family growth.) 
If you do not have enough Food, you may convert goods into Food (according to the conversion table on page 11) or you 
will have to take Begging markers. 
	
Details on the Work phase
	 Animals that you gain during the Work phase but that you cannot or do not want to 
accommodate on your Home board may be converted into Food immediately (according 
to the conversion table on your Home board and on page 11).
	 You can only place Dwarfs from your cave. You may not use the Dwarfs in your personal 
supply (as they have not been born yet, if you will, but they can be introduced later, see 
“Family growth” on page 15). 
	 On your turn, you can only ever place one Dwarf at a time. 
	 You may not place a Dwarf on an Action space without performing at least one of its 
actions. 
	 Due to the “Family growth” action (see page 15), some players may have fewer Dwarfs 
than others in their caves. If a player runs out of Dwarfs during a round, this player is 
skipped. Only the players that have Dwarfs left in their caves continue to play them one 
by one as described. 
	 On some Action spaces you have to choose one out of several options (“either … or”). 
	 Other Action spaces allow you to take any number of the available actions (“and/or”, 
“and then/or”). 
	 There are two Action spaces that have a mandatory primary action and an optional 
follow-up action (“and then”). In case of the “Urgent wish for children” Action space, 
you have to use the first action in order to use the second one at all. 
Dwellings are indicated by the orange 
background color of their name tag.
Details on returning home
	 It does not matter how you distribute the Dwarfs among the 
Dwellings in your cave system. 
	 You may never have more Dwarfs in play than available room in 
your cave. This is why each of your tired Dwarfs will always find a 
place to sleep. 
	 It is best to place your Dwarfs side by side in your cave so that your 
opponents can easily see which of your Dwarfs have a Weapon and 
what strengths these Weapons have. 
It’s time for the harvest!

Begging markers
If you cannot or do not wish to produce the required Food, you must take 1 Begging 
marker for each missing Food. You may not give up Dwarfs to avoid the need to feed 
them. (At the end of the game, you will lose 3 Gold points for each Begging marker. 
There is no way to return Begging markers once you have taken them.) 
	 Sub-phase 3: The Breeding phase 
	
If you have at least 2 Farm animals of the same type, you get exactly 
1 additional (baby) animal of that type – but only if the new animal can be 
accommodated on your Home board. (Baby animals and parent animals 
may not be converted into Food immediately after the birth. You have to 
accommodate them on your Home board first.)
 	 Which rounds end with a harvest? 
	 Rounds 1 to 4
	
In the first four rounds, there is only one harvest: at the end of the third round. The first two rounds do not have a 
harvest at all. At the end of round 4, there is no harvest but instead you have to pay 1 Food per Dwarf in your cave 
(even for offspring Dwarfs). There is no Field or Breeding phase at this time.
	 Rounds 5 to 12
	
By default there will be a harvest at the end of rounds 5 to 12.
This may change if a Harvest marker shows a red question mark. (Harvest markers have been placed on Round 
spaces 6 to 12 during setup, see page 7.) The change depends on the number of question marks that have already 
been revealed. 
	
To keep track of how many question marks have been already revealed, place them on the 
“Harvest events” card (from top to bottom) after they have been resolved.
Details on breeding
	 You get all of your baby animals at the same time, not one by one.
	 You can only get at most one animal per type in each harvest. 
	 Dogs are not considered Farm animals. They do not breed. 
	 The animals breed regardless of where the parent animals are placed 
on your Home board. The parents may be in separate areas.
	 As explained on the “Harvest events” card, there is no harvest at the end of the round in which the first 
question mark is revealed (like at the end of rounds 1 and 2). 
	 At the end of the round when the second question mark is revealed, instead of a harvest, you have to pay 1 
Food per Dwarf in your cave (even for offspring Dwarfs; like at the end of round 4).
	 When the third question mark is revealed, you have to decide individually whether you want to play the Field 
phase or the Breeding phase of the Harvest time at the end of the round. (You cannot play both these phases, 
but you must still play the Feeding phase. Each player may choose differently.)
The player in this example has built 
a Stable in the Forest just outside his 
cave. Now he is able to keep up to 3 
Wild boars. (Animal husbandry will 
be explained in detail on page 20.) 
Therefore, his Wild boars can breed a 
piglet (despite the fact that they currently 
do not seem to be interested in each 
other at all).
In this example, the first 
question mark has already 
been resolved. When the 
next one is revealed, all 
players will have to pay 
1 Food for each of their 
Dwarfs.
You will need a lot of Food for your hungry 
Dwarfs due to the high number of harvests in 
this game. On the other hand, you will collect 
crops more frequently and your animals will 
breed more often. If you take the right steps to 
feed your family early on, it will not be as hard 
as it seems.

Food conversion rules
To feed your Dwarfs, you may convert goods into Food at any time (without constraints). There is a Food conversion 
table at the bottom right of your Home board that summarizes the following Food conversion rules:
	 You can buy Food with Gold. Pay one more Gold than the amount of Food you wish to get. 
(For instance, 1/2/3/… Food cost 2/3/4 Gold, respectively. Gold is available in denominations 
of 1, 2 and 10. You may change your Gold at any time. You cannot spend the Gold points 
that are awarded at the end of the game for things like Mines or Meadows. Keep in mind 
that each Gold is worth 1 point at the end of the game.) 
In addition, you can convert animals and crops into Food.
	 Sheep are each worth 1 Food, Wild boars 2 Food, and Cattle 
3 Food. A single Donkey is worth 1 Food, but 2 Donkeys 
are worth 3 Food. 
	 Each Grain is worth 1 Food, and Vegetables are worth 
2 Food. 
	 Rubies could be exchanged for goods like Wild boars and 
Vegetables that are each worth 2 Food (see page 17 for 
details on Rubies); therefore, you can convert Rubies into 
2 Food directly. 
	 Dogs and the building materials Wood, Stone and Ore are 
not worth any Food. (Nor are Dwarfs, by the way.)
As most of the following rules will be new to veteran ‘Agricola’ players as well, we will now stop 
using brown color to mark new stuff.
And this is what Gold 
points look like
This is what Gold 
looks like
The Food conversion table on your Home board
 summarizes the Food conversion rules.
Now you know how to play a round. If you go back to pages 4 to 6, you might notice what we have 
not talked about yet: which actions you can take to become a wealthy dwarf. Let us have a look at the 
remaining rules by explaining the Action spaces.
The actions
Some Action spaces are already available at the beginning of the game, others will become available later (see “Add a new 
Action space”, page 7). Some Action spaces are only available with a certain number of players (see Setup, page 2).
We will now explain the Action spaces grouped by type in the following order. 
Type of Action space
Questions that will be answered
Page(s)
1. Action spaces for twin tiles 
(including the explanation of the “Sow” action)
How can I get twin tiles on my Home board?
 
12 to 14
2. Action spaces for family growth
(including the explanation of the “Furnish a cavern” 
action)
How can 
I get more 
Dwarfs into 
my cave? 
14 to 16

3. Action spaces for goods and mines 
(including the explanation of Rubies)
What can I do with Mines and Rubies? 
How can I get the single tiles on my Home board? 
 
16 to 18
4. Action spaces for animals (including the 
explanation of the “Build fences” and “Build stables” 
actions and how to keep animals)
How can I get animals on my Home board? 
 
 
 
 
18 to 20
5. Action spaces for weapons
(including the explanation of the “Expedition” 
actions)
What are Weapons for? 
20 to 22
6. Starting player 
Who will be the Starting player next round? 
7. Imitation
What can I do when 
an opponent has 
occupied an Action 
space I wanted to 
use? 
1. Action spaces for twin tiles 
Action spaces: Excavation and Drift mining
The “Excavation” and “Drift mining” Action spaces accumulate Stone. Take all 
the Stone tokens from the Action space when taking the action. 
Additionally, you may place a “Cavern/Tunnel” twin tile on two adjacent empty 
Mountain spaces of your Home board. The new tile must connect with your 
cave system, i.e. you must place it (horizontally or vertically) adjacent to an 
already occupied Mountain space. 
If you place the new tile on one of the 
underground water sources, imme-
diately take the indicated 1 or 2 Food 
from the general supply.
The 
difference 
between 
the 
“Excavation” and the “Drift mining” action is which side you may turn the twin 
tile on. With the “Excavation” action, you may choose either side, but when taking 
the “Drift mining” action you must use the “Cavern/Tunnel” side. The “Cavern/
Cavern” side can only be used with the “Excavation” action.
At the end of the game, you will lose 1 point for each unused space on your Home board. An unused 
space is one that does not have a tile (or Stable) placed on it. You will now learn how to get tiles – for 
your Mountain and for your Forest.
pay 2 Food to use 
Growth
You start the game with two 
occupied Mountain spaces.
Immediately take 
1 Food as soon 
as you cover this 
space on your Home 
board.
In games with 4 to 7 players, the restriction of the 
“Drift mining” Action space is countered by the fact 
that it will accumulate Stone faster than the Action 
space “Excavation”.
“Cavern/Cavern” 
twin tile

Action spaces: Clearing, Sustenance and Slash-and-burn 
Apart from the goods depicted on the “Clearing” and 
“Sustenance” Action spaces, you can get a “Meadow/Field” 
twin tile there. This tile is also available on the “Slash-and-
burn” Action space.
You have to place the “Meadow/Field” twin tile on two adjacent Forest spaces of your Home board. The 
first such tile has to be placed in front of the cave entrance (see illustration). Any subsequent tiles have 
to be placed adjacent to an already existing Field, Meadow or Pasture (see the “Build fences” action on 
page 19 for more details on Pastures).
Details on the “Excavation” and “Drift mining” Action spaces
	 If you have run out of adjacent empty Mountain spaces, you may not place any more twin tiles in your Mountain. 
In this case, you may not place a single tile instead when using the “Excavation” or “Drift mining” action (on single 
tiles, see “Rubies” on page 17 and “The Expedition loot items” in the appendix). 
	 In games with 5 to 7 players, there is an Action space called “Small-scale drift mining”. It provides 1 Stone and a 
“Cavern/Tunnel” twin tile. 
	 In 7-player games, there is an additional Action space called “Extension”. It also provides 1 Stone 
and a “Cavern/Tunnel” twin tile. Alternatively, you may take 1 Wood and a “Meadow/Field” twin 
tile for the Forest on your Home board.
The “Meadow/Field” twin tile will be explained next.
Details on the “Clearing”, “Sustenance” and “Slash-and-burn” Action spaces
	 The two adjacent Forest spaces on which you place the “Meadow/Field” twin tile do not need to be empty. One 
of them may already be occupied by a Stable. In this case, place the twin tile underneath the Stable such that the 
Stable ends up on the Meadow (see page 20 for more details).
	 If you have run out of adjacent Forest spaces, you may not place any more “Meadow/Field” twin tiles. In this case, 
you may not place single tiles instead when taking the “Clearing”, “Sustenance” or “Slash-and-burn” action. 
	 You do not necessarily need to place Fields adjacent to other Fields, or Meadows adjacent to other Meadows. (The 
tiles themselves, though, have to be placed adjacent to one another.)
The twin tile with a Meadow and a Field.
These Action spaces provide the means to 
lay out Meadows and plow Fields.
A close-up view of 
the cave entrance
E
Immediately take 1 Wild boar from 
the general supply when covering 
one of the Wild boar preserves in 
your Forest. You can accommodate 
this Wild boar on your Home board 
or convert it into 2 Food immediately 
(see the conversion table on your 
Home board).
Immediately take 1 Food from the general supply 
when covering the water source in your Forest.
The first “Meadow” and/or “Field” 
tile you place in the game must be 
placed in front of your cave entrance 
regardless of whether it is a single or 
a twin tile.
Extension

Apart from the twin tiles, the “Clearing” and “Sustenance” Action spaces 
provide Wood and crops, respectively. The “Slash-and-burn” Action space, 
on the other hand, provides an additional “Sow” action.
This is how you sow.
A newly sown Grain field 
contains 3 tokens, a newly 
sown Vegetable field just 2 
tokens.
The Sow action
You can grow crops with the “Sow” action. To sow Grain, take 1 Grain from your personal supply and put it on an empty 
Field. Then take 2 Grain from the general supply and put them on top of your sown Grain.
Instead of Grain, you may sow Vegetables. Take 1 Vegetable from your personal supply and put it on an empty Field. Then 
put 1 Vegetable from the general supply on top of your sown Vegetable.
With a single “Sow” action, you can sow Grain and Vegetables up to 2 times each.
You can sow crops to collect them in the 
Field phase of the harvest. This is one way of 
feeding your family in the long run.
You can take a ‘Sow’ action on the ‘Slash-and-burn’ Action space and later on the ‘Family life’ 
Action space (in stage 3). Family life is what the next section is about.
Details on the “Sow” action
	 You cannot sow a crop, i.e. Grain or Vegetable, 
if you do not have at least one token of it in your 
personal supply (unless you have Rubies, see 
page 17.)
	 A completely harvested Field can be sown again 
with another “Sow” action.
2. Action spaces for family growth
The Furnish a cavern action
The “Furnish a cavern” action can be found on the “Housework” Action space.
When using the “Furnish a cavern” action, choose one of the 
available Furnishing tiles on the supply boards.
Pay the building costs indicated on the left below the name 
of the tile (most often Wood and/or Stone) and place it on an 
empty Cavern space in your Mountain. 
Every Furnishing tile has an ability which is shown at the 
bottom of the tile. (The abilities of all Furnishing tiles are 
explained on page A3 of the appendix.)
Dwellings are special Furnishing tiles. They provide room for 
additional Dwarfs.
Stone carver 
every time you furnish 
a Cavern or build a 
Stable, you receive 
a discount of
immediately
Dwellings are indicated by the red 
background color of their name tag.

Details on the “Furnish a cavern” action
	 You may be able to furnish an empty Cavern as a result of an Expedition (see the “Detailed 
example on forging a Weapon and undertaking an Expedition” on page 22). 
	 You cannot carry out the “Furnish a cavern” action if you do not have an empty Cavern. 
(You can get a Cavern via Rubies, see page 17.)
	 You may not place a Furnishing tile on a Tunnel, Mine or empty Mountain space. (However, 
you may place one on the empty Cavern that is pre-printed on your Home board.) 
	 Once placed, you cannot remove, displace or build over a Furnishing tile. 
	 Except for the ordinary Dwelling (see the illustration on page 14), there is only one copy of 
each Furnishing tile. The number of ordinary Dwelling tiles is considered to be unlimited 
(improvise if needed).
The next action specifically addresses the building of Dwellings.
Details on the “Furnish a dwelling” action
	 You may be able to furnish a Dwelling as a result of an Expedition (see page A2 of the appendix).
	 For details on the special Dwellings, check the appendix on page A3. 
This Cavern is 
waiting to be 
furnished from the 
start.
The Furnish a dwelling action
The “Furnish a dwelling” action is found on both sides of the Action space card for round 4 
(“Wish for children” and “Urgent wish for children”).
When using the “Furnish a dwelling” action, take a Dwelling tile, pay its building costs and 
place it on an empty Cavern. There are 6 different types of Dwellings. Every Dwelling provides 
room for one or two Dwarfs.
The Family growth action
The “Family growth” action can be found on the “Family life”, “Wish for children” and “Urgent wish 
for children” Action space cards, and (in games with 4 or more players) also on the “Growth” Action 
space.
You can only use a “Family growth” action if you have more room for Dwarfs in your Dwellings than 
you have Dwarfs. (An offspring requires room in your cave.)
When taking a “Family growth” action, put a Dwarf disc from your personal 
supply on top of the Dwarf taking the action. 
The new Dwarf cannot take an action this round. (The 
offspring has to grow up first.) In the Return home phase 
of this round, the new Dwarf has to be accommodated 
in an available Dwelling like the other Dwarfs. 
Family life
The ‘Furnish a dwelling’ action prepares you 
for the ‘Family growth’ action that we will 
address next.
This player’s cave has room for 4 Dwarfs but 
only 3 Dwarfs are living in it at the moment.
Look at this lovely pregnant Dwarf woman!

Details on the “Family growth” action
	 Players taking a “Family growth” action will have one more (adult) Dwarf to use in 
subsequent rounds. (However, they will also have to feed more Dwarfs, see “Harvest 
time” on page 9.)
	 Dwarf families are limited to 5 Dwarfs. You may no longer use a “Family growth” 
action once you have all of your 5 Dwarfs in play (unless you build the “Additional 
dwelling, see page A3 of the appendix).
	 You get only one “Family growth” action per Action space, but you may occupy more 
than one of them to grow your family faster.
Additional dwelling
Room for the 
sixth Dwarf only
The “Additional 
dwelling” provides 
room for a sixth Dwarf.
The “Family growth” action is also available on the 
“Growth” Action space when playing with 4 to 7 players.
The ‘Growth’ Action space is one of 
the Action spaces that provide several 
different goods. We will talk about 
Action spaces like this in the next 
section.
Growth
Ore mine construction
3. Action spaces for goods and mines
Action spaces: Supplies and Growth
The “Supplies” and “Growth” Action spaces are available from the start.
They provide 1 Wood, 1 Stone, 1 Ore, 1 Food, and 2 Gold. In games with 4 to 7 players, you can 
take a “Family growth” action instead on the “Growth” Action space (see previous section).
Action space: Ore mine construction
The “Ore mine construction” Action space will become available in stage 1.
If there are two horizontally or vertically adjacent 
ordinary Tunnel spaces in your Mountain, you may 
use the “Ore mine construction” Action space to place 
an “Ore mine/Deep tunnel” twin tile on top of these 
spaces. If you do so, take 3 Ore from the general supply.
Additionally or alternatively, you may undertake an 
Expedition of level 2 on that Action space (see page 21).
Two ordinary Tunnels are covered by an Ore 
mine tile.
Details on the “Ore mine construction” action
	 Deep tunnel tiles are indicated by a much darker background color (as opposed to the ordinary Tunnel 
tiles), and show staircases.
	 The “Ore mine/Deep tunnel” twin tiles can only be placed on top of ordinary Tunnels. You may not 
place them on top of Deep tunnels.
	 You will only get 3 Ore if you did place the twin tile on your Home board.
	 An Ore mine is worth 3 Gold points. 	
	 Each Mine can hold 1 Donkey (see page 20 for details on animal husbandry).
Tip for the “Ore mine construction” action
	 You may trade 1 Ruby for a single “Tunnel” tile at any time (see page 17). You can do so to place the single Tunnel 
next to an existing ordinary Tunnel in your cave and then use the “Ore mine construction” action to cover them 
with an “Ore mine/Deep tunnel” tile. (You can even cover two adjacent single Tunnels.) 
Rubies can be collected in Ruby mines which will be explained next.
The staircase to 
the Deep tunnel.

Action space: Ruby mine construction
The “Ruby mine construction” Action space will become available in stage 2 (in round 5 or 6).
If you have at least one empty Tunnel space in your Mountain, you can place a Ruby mine on 
top of one of these spaces. If (and only if) you place the Ruby mine on top of a Deep tunnel, you 
immediately get 1 Ruby from the general supply. (Deep tunnels and Ore mines are on the same tiles. 
This is why the Action space displays an “Ore mine/Deep tunnel” twin tile.) 
Action spaces for mining: Ore mining, Ore delivery, Ruby mining and Ruby delivery
The “Ore mining” Action space is available from the start. The “Ruby mining”, “Ore delivery” and “Ruby delivery” Action 
spaces will become available in stages 2, 3 and 4, respectively.
When using one of these Action spaces, take all the Ore and Ruby tokens from that space.
Details on the “Ruby mine construction” action
	 A Ruby mine is worth 4 Gold points. 
	 Every (Ore and) Ruby mine can hold 1 Donkey (see 
page 20 for details on animal husbandry). 
An ordinary Tunnel space has 
been covered by a Ruby mine tile. 
You do not get a Ruby for this.
Ruby mine construction
Ore delivery
Ruby delivery
Take 2 additional Ore tokens 
from the general supply for 
each Ore mine you have 
when you take the “Ore 
mining” or “Ore delivery” 
action. 
If you have at least 2 Ruby mines, take 1 additional 
Ruby when taking the “Ruby delivery” action. (You 
will only ever get 1 additional Ruby.)
If you have at least 1 Ruby mine, take 1 additional 
Ruby when taking the “Ruby mining” action. (You 
will only ever get 1 additional Ruby.
Rubies
Rubies can be used in a variety of ways. (There is an Overview card for quick reference.)
	 Rubies are sort of a wild card. You can exchange them at any time at a 1:1 ratio for animals, 
building materials, Grain, Vegetables and Gold. There is an exception with Cattle: You have to 
pay 1 Food on top of the Ruby token to get 1 Cattle (see at the bottom left of the Overview card). 
	 You can also spend 1 Ruby to get a single “Field” or “Meadow” tile. You have to place it immediately 
on an empty Forest space that is adjacent to an already existing Field, Meadow or Pasture. (On page 
13, we have already explained Fields and Meadows. If you have no Fields, Meadows or Pastures 
in your Forest, place the single tile in front of your cave entrance. See page 20 for more details on 
Meadows and Pastures.) 
	 Alternatively, you can spend 1 Ruby to get a single “Tunnel” tile or 2 Rubies to get a single 
“Cavern” tile (see at the bottom right of the Overview card). You have to place it immediately on 
an empty Mountain space (adjacent to your cave system). (On page 14 and on pages 16-17, we have 
already explained Tunnels and Caverns.)
	 Rubies can also be spent to play an armed Dwarf out of order. By paying 
1 Ruby, you can ignore the “play order” for one of your Dwarfs. (See 
page 8 for details on the play order of Dwarfs.)
SPIELER
In the 2-player game only: No Rubies 
are placed on this Action space in the 
first two rounds.)
1 Zwerg in der Einsetzfolge vorziehen

Tips on using Rubies
	 Changing the play order of your Dwarfs is important for Expeditions (see page 21). 
G
i
d
	 When taking a “Sow” action (see page 14), you can spend 
1 Ruby to get a single “Field” tile before you sow crops. (You 
can also spend Rubies to get crops in the first place.)
	 When taking the “Ruby mine construction” action, you can 
spend 1 Ruby to get a single “Tunnel” tile before you place the 
Ruby mine on top of it (see page 17). 
4. Action spaces for animals
Action spaces: Sheep farming and Donkey farming
The “Sheep farming” and “Donkey farming” Action spaces become available in 
stages 1 and 2, respectively.
They accumulate Sheep and Donkeys, respectively. Before taking the animals, 
you can turn Meadows into Pastures and/or build exactly 1 Stable to make room 
for more animals. The exact details will follow.
You have to accommodate the Sheep and Donkeys on your Home board. (You may 
not place them in your personal supply, but you may convert them into Food. The exact rules on animal husbandry will be 
explained at the end of this section on page 20.)
Donkey farming
Sheep farming
There is no ‘Wild boar farming’ Action space. One way to get Wild boars is 
to build over the two preserves on your Home board. Also, there is no ‘Cattle 
farming’ Action space. You can get Cattle as well as Wild boars as loot from 
Expeditions (see page 21) or in exchange for Rubies (see page 17).
Action space: Ore trading
The “Ore trading” Action space will become available in stage 4.
When using this Action space, you can exchange 2 Ore for 2 Gold and 1 Food from the general supply. 
You may do this up to 3 times (e.g. you can exchange 6 Ore for 6 Gold and 3 Food).
Action space: Weekly market
The “Weekly market” Action space is only available in games with 5 to 7 players. It is available from 
the start. 
You get 4 Gold from the general supply. You can then spend your Gold to buy different goods if you 
like. The prices are printed on the card: any building material, Sheep or Donkey costs 1 Gold; a Wild 
boar or Dog costs 2 Gold; Cattle costs 3 Gold; Grain costs 1 Gold and a Vegetable costs 2 Gold.
Ore trading
Details on the “Weekly market” action
	 You can only buy one token of each type per action. 
	 You are not limited to spend only the 4 Gold you received. You can spend as many Gold coins 
as you have and wish.
	 You may spend fewer than 4 Gold. (You may even refuse to spend Gold at all.) 
	 You can buy animals and then immediately convert them into Food. 
	 You get change if you cannot pay the exact amount with the coins you have.
only 1 token per type:
Weekly market

Details on the “Build fences” action
	 You cannot fence in Field or Forest spaces or any spaces in your Mountain. 
	 Only Meadows can become Pastures. You cannot turn a Forest space into a Pasture directly. 
	 Pastures are permanent. Once established, they cannot be combined or split up. 
	 You may be able to build fences cheaper as a result of an Expedition (see appendix, page A2).
	 You can only build 1 Small and/or 1 Large pasture per action.
Tip for the “Build fences” action
	 Before taking a “Build fences” action, you may spend 1 Ruby to 
buy a single “Meadow” tile and then turn this tile into a Small pasture 
with your “Build fences” action. 
Details on the “Build stables” action
	 You cannot build Stables on Field spaces or on any spaces in your Mountain. 
	 When you build a Stable on a Forest space, this space does not need to be adjacent to any of the landscape tiles on 
your Home board. 
	 Each space on your Home board outside your Mountain can only have 1 Stable at most. (Large pastures cover 
2 spaces on your Home board and can thus have up to 2 Stables.) 
	 You are limited to 3 Stables (in your color). You cannot build more than 3 Stables.
	 A Forest space with a Stable can later become a Meadow with Stable if you place a “Meadow” tile underneath the 
Stable. You cannot, however, place a Field on that space. 
	 A Meadow space with a Stable can be fenced in to become a Small pasture, or a Large pasture if it is adjacent to 
another Meadow space. 
	 Building a Stable on the water source or the Wild boar preserve in your Forest does not trigger the reward (see 
page 13). You have to place a tile on these spaces to get it. 
	 You may build a Stable for free as a result of an Expedition (see page A1 of the appendix). 
The Build stables action
You can build Stables on the “Sheep farming” and “Donkey farming” Action spaces. 
Pay 1 Stone to build a Stable. You can place the Stable on any Forest, Meadow or Pasture space. 
Stables are permanent. Once established, they cannot be moved or removed. You can only build 1 
Stable per action. Like Pastures, Stables allow you to keep more animals.
Sheep farming
The Build fences action
Meadows can be fenced in to become Pastures on the “Sheep farming”, “Donkey farming” and 
“Fence building” Action spaces. 
When using one of these Action spaces, you can turn exactly one Meadow into a Small pasture 
and/or exactly two adjacent Meadows into a Large pasture. (Fenced in Meadows are called 
“Pastures”.) Pastures can hold animals (see page 20).
You have to pay 2 Wood to fence in a single Meadow space. This space becomes a Small pasture. 
To indicate this, turn the Meadow tile to the other side.
If you have two adjacent Meadow spaces on your Home board, you can pay 4 Wood 
to turn them both into one Large pasture. To indicate this, place a “Large pasture” 
twin tile on top of these spaces. (Large pastures are printed on the back side of the 
Ore mine tiles.)
Fence building
Turn a Meadow tile to the other 
side when building fences.
You can place a Large pasture on top of two horizontally 
or vertically adjacent Meadow spaces.
+4

Rules on animal husbandry
You may rearrange your animals on your Home board whenever and how often you like as long as you abide by the 
following rules. 
Breakfast room
Room for 
up to 
A Stable on a Pasture doubles its 
total capacity.
(Small pastures with a Stable can 
hold up to 4, Large pastures with 
one Stable up to 8, and with two 
Stables up to 16 Farm animals.)
A Stable on a Meadow space 
can hold any 1 Farm animal. A 
Stable on a Forest space that has 
not been covered by a tile can 
hold exactly 1 Wild boar.
Instead of the normal rules for Meadows and Pastures (with or without 
Stables), you can apply the following when you place Dogs on them: You 
can keep one more Sheep on the Meadow or Pasture than there are Dogs 
on it. (For instance, 1/2/3/… Dogs can watch 2/3/4/… Sheep, respectively.) 
If you use Dogs to watch Sheep on a space with a Stable, you may not use 
the Stable.
Each Ore or Ruby mine can 
hold 1 Donkey.
You can keep up to 3 Cattle 
on the “Breakfast room” 
Furnishing tile.
The entry-level room of 
your cave can hold 2 Farm 
animals of the same type. 
Details on animal husbandry
	 You can fence in a Meadow space with Stable to get a Pasture 
with double its normal capacity. 
	 Dogs can only watch Sheep; not Donkeys, Wild boars or Cattle. 
You cannot use a Dog to keep Sheep in a Pasture that also holds 
another type of Farm animal.
	 Dogs cannot watch Sheep on Forest spaces or Fields.
The ‘Cave Farmers’ has many more options to 
keep animals than its predecessor ‘Agricola’: 
Dogs wander around or can watch Sheep. A 
Stable in the Forest can hold a Wild boar, and 
a Mine a donkey. (Only Cattle follows the same 
rules in both games except for the Breakfast 
room.) As a result, you will rearrange your 
animals more often to optimize the available 
room.
5. Action spaces for weapons
The Forge a weapon and Expedition actions
The “Blacksmithing” Action space with its “Forge a weapon” and “Level 3 expedition” actions will 
become available in stage 1. The “Adventure” Action space with its “Forge a weapon” and two “Level 
1 expedition” actions will become available in stage 4.
Collect Ore in your personal supply so that one of your Dwarfs can then use it to forge a Weapon with 
a “Forge a weapon” action. Only an unarmed Dwarf can forge a Weapon. When taking the “Forge a 
weapon” action, spend a number of Ore tokens but no more than 8 tokens and take a Weapon strength 
marker with a value equal to the number of Ore tokens spent. Place the Weapon strength marker on the 
Dwarf taking the action.
This Dwarf may immediately try out its new Weapon on 
an Expedition.
You can forge a Weapon for as little as 1 Ore.
Dogs wander around. You can keep them on any 
spaces of your Home board. 
On Pastures, you can keep Farm animals. Each Pasture space can hold 
up to 2 Farm animals of the same type. (For instance, Small pastures can 
hold 2 Farm animals, and Large pastures can hold 4.) 

Details on Weapon strength
	 Each Dwarf can only bear a single Weapon. 
	 You cannot use the “Forge a weapon” action with an already armed Dwarf. Especially, you may not spend Ore to 
upgrade his current Weapon or to replace it with a new one. 
	 Weapons are “bound” to their Dwarfs. You cannot forge a Weapon with one Dwarf and hand that Weapon over 
to another Dwarf. An armed Dwarf cannot actively get rid of its Weapon. (A Dwarf by grace of God loves his 
Weapon. He would never ever let it go.)
	 An unarmed Dwarf cannot undertake an Expedition. 
	 You cannot use your Weapons to attack other players. 
	 The highest possible Weapon strength is 14. You cannot further increase this strength. 
	 In the extreme scenario that you have four unarmed 
Dwarfs and one Dwarf with Weapon strength 14, 
you could pay a single Ruby to place that armed 
Dwarf before any of your other Dwarfs.
The Expeditions
Every Expedition yields some loot items as depicted on the “Expedition 
loot” Overview card. There are a number of Action spaces on which you can 
undertake an Expedition with an armed Dwarf. Expeditions have one of four 
different levels (1-4). The Expedition level determines how many different 
loot items you may choose from the Overview card. (Choose the loot items 
one by one in any order.)
Each space with a loot item on the Overview card has a Minimum strength 
value. When choosing an item from the list, you may only choose items with 
a Minimum strength value lower than or equal to the Weapon strength of 
the Dwarf undertaking the Expedition.
You can spend a Ruby to bypass the play 
order for a specific Dwarf (see “Rubies” on 
page 17).
As a reminder: The play order of Dwarfs 
As mentioned on page 8, you have to place 
your Dwarfs in the order of their Weapon 
strength. You have to place unarmed Dwarfs 
first, then your armed Dwarfs in ascending 
order of Weapon strength.
Sow
breed up to 
2 types
of Farm animals
The “Expedition loot” Overview card lists a 
lot of different goods and bonus actions. Each 
space depicts one loot item. Each such item 
may only be chosen once per Expedition.
One of your Dwarfs with a Weapon strength 
of 1 goes on a “Level 3 expedition”. As a 
result, he can get the loot items “All weapons 
+1”, “1 Dog” and “1 Wood”. He was not 
strong enough to get better items (for now).
Two Dwarfs are left in your cave. You 
would like to undertake an Expedition. 
Unfortunately, you have to place the 
Dwarf with the Weapon strength of 3 next. 
Obviously, it would be much more efficient to 
use the Dwarf with the Weapon strength of 14 
instead.
In the example, you could spend 1 Ruby to 
place the Dwarf with the Weapon strength of 
14 before placing the weaker one.
After you
At the end of each Expedition, the Weapon strength of the Dwarf undertaking it will increase by 1 as a result of the 
experience gained (regardless of the Expedition level). Only newly forged Weapons are limited to an initial Weapon strength 
of 8. You can increase this strength beyond 8 with Expeditions.
As a result of the “All weapons +1” loot item and the 
end of the Expedition, the Weapon strength of your 
Dwarf has been increased by 2 and is now 3.

Detailed example on forging a Weapon and undertaking an Expedition
You have 10 Ore in your personal supply and an unarmed Dwarf. You place that Dwarf on the 
“Blacksmithing” Action space and pay 7 Ore to forge a Weapon of strength 7. Now your Dwarf can 
immediately test its Weapon by undertaking an Expedition. To indicate the upcoming Level 3 expedition, 
you can place a “Weapon strength 8” marker next to your Dwarf. You then choose the loot items “1 
Dog”, “2 Gold” and “Furnish a cavern”. They have Minimum strength values of 1, 6 and 7, respectively, 
and are thus not greater than the Weapon strength of your Dwarf. At the end of this Expedition, you may 
exchange the “Weapon strength 7” marker with the “Weapon strength 8” one. 
Do not underestimate or overrate the importance of Expeditions. The game is designed in a way that you can 
win it with a peaceful approach, but also with one relying on heavy weaponry. I can tell you this, though: 
With 4 or more players, if a player is the only one going after Weapons, he will most likely win. And if 
he is the only one to ignore Weapons, he will also most likely win.
6. Action space: Starting player
The Starting player token is not passed at the end of the round. In order to 
become Starting player, you have to use the “Starting player” action. (If no one 
does this, the Starting player token stays where it is.) You do not only become 
Starting player on that Action space, but you also get all the Food tokens that 
have accumulated on it, as well as 2 Ore (in games with 1 to 3 players) or 1 Ruby 
(in games with 4 to 7 players) on top of that.
7. Action spaces: Imitation
The “Imitation” Action spaces are available in games with at least 3 players. Imitation costs 
0, 1, 2 or 4 Food depending on the Action space.
When using an “Imitation” action, pay the required Food into the general supply and choose 
an Action space that is currently occupied by an opponent’s Dwarf. You may use this Action 
space as if you had placed your Dwarf there. The only Action space that cannot be imitated 
is “Starting player”. 
On top of the Starting player token and 
some Food, you will also get 2 Ore or 
1 Ruby depending on the player count.
Details on the “Imitation” action
	 Do not place your Dwarf on the Action space that you imitate. Your Dwarf stays on “Imitation”.
	 When imitating an accumulating space, you do not get any of the accumulating goods as they have already been 
taken by your opponent. 
	 You cannot imitate an Action space that is occupied by one of your own Dwarfs. 
	 In games with 5 to 7 players, there are multiple “Imitation” Action spaces (see appendix, page A7) and they may 
all be used to imitate the same or different Action spaces.
Imitation cost 
(“apprentice’s due”)
Choosing the right loot items is quite crucial. We recommend the other players continue playing while you 
are picking loot. The Weapon strength of your Dwarf will be increased after the Expedition: therefore, 
the other players may place the next highest Weapon strength marker next to your Dwarf 
undertaking the Expedition to indicate that you are not done yet. Once you have finished picking 
loot, you can exchange the current Weapon strength marker of your Dwarf with the new one. (Exception: 
You pick the loot item ‘All weapons +1’.) The following example illustrates this recommendation.

End of the game and scoring
The game ends at the end of round 12. Use the scoring pad to determine the final scores. 
There are several different categories for which you can get Gold points. The player who 
has the most Gold points wins the game. (In case of a tie, there are multiple winners.)
	 1 Gold per Farm animal and Dog: Each animal is worth 1 Gold point at the end of the 
game, even Dogs. (Dogs are not considered Farm animals.) 
	 -2 Gold per missing type of Farm animal: At the end of the game, you should have 
at least 1 Sheep, 1 Donkey, 1 Wild boar and 1 Cattle. You lose 2 Gold points for each 
of these types that you do not have on your Home board. (You do not need to have any 
Dogs.) 
	 ½ Gold per Grain (rounded up): Count all of your Grain tokens – both those in your 
supply and those still left on Fields. Divide this number by 2 and round it up. This is the 
number of Gold points you get for Grain.
	 1 Gold per Vegetable: Count all of your Vegetable tokens – both those in your supply and those still left on Fields. 
You get this number of Gold points for Vegetables.
	 1 Gold per Ruby: At the end of the game, each Ruby is worth 1 Gold point.
	 1 Gold per Dwarf: At the end of the game, each of your Dwarfs is worth 1 Gold point. 
	 -1 Gold per unused space: Count the number of spaces on your Home board that have no tile or Stable on them. 
You lose 1 Gold point for each such space. The two pre-printed Caverns of your cave system are considered used. 
(Unfurnished Caverns are also considered used.) 
	 Gold for Furnishing tiles, Pastures and Mines: Add up the Gold point values on all of your tiles. Small pastures 
are worth 2 Gold points, Large pastures are worth 4 Gold points (regardless of the type and number of animals on 
those tiles). Ore mines are worth 3 Gold points, Ruby mines are worth 4 Gold points (regardless of whether they hold 
a Donkey or not). The value of a Furnishing tile is printed on the right of the tile, right under the name of the tile.
	 Bonus points for Parlors, Storages and Chambers: Most of the Furnishing tiles called Parlors, Storages and 
Chambers (indicated by the yellow name tag) may be worth Bonus points depending on the condition they impose. 
The scoring pad has multiple lines for Bonus points. You can use one line per Furnishing tile that you get Bonus 
points for. (Details on the Furnishing tiles can be found on page A3 of the appendix.)
	 Gold coins and Begging markers: Add up the values on your Gold coins and subtract 3 Gold points from that for 
each Begging marker you have.
per Farm animal and Dog 1
per missing type of Farm animal -2
per Grain 
(rounded up)
per Vegetable 1
per Ruby 1
per Dwarf 1
per unused space -1
Furnishing tiles, Pastures, Mines
 for Parlors, Storages 
and Chambers
Gold coins and Begging markers
Total
Name
½
Details on Bonus points
	 Bonus points for the Weaving parlor, Milking parlor, Fodder 
chamber, Food chamber and Treasure chamber are awarded 
as “Bonus points” (even though you could add them to other 
categories). Minus points prevented by the Writing chamber 
have to be adjusted in the respective categories. 
	 As with the Writing chamber, Bonus points for the Hunting 
parlor, Beer parlor, Blacksmithing parlor and Spare part 
storage are not awarded as “Bonus points” on the scoring 
pad. These tiles allow you to exchange goods for Gold 
before scoring. (If you forgot to do so but notice it just before 
scoring, you may still do it.)
+1
imme-
diately +
Weaving parlor
prevents up to 
7 negative
 points 
 
Writing chamber
If you have the Weaving parlor, 
you will get points for Sheep 
twice: in the category “1 Gold 
per Farm animal” and in the 
category “Bonus points for 
Parlors”.
If you have the Writing 
chamber, your minus points in 
the “-2 Gold per missing type 
of Farm animal”, “-1 Gold per 
unused space” and “Begging 
markers” categories will be 
reduced.

Rules for the solo game
The solo game is played according to the rules for 2 to 7 players with the following exceptions:
In the Work phase, place one Dwarf after another. There are no opponents that you have to wait for. The goal of the solo 
game is to get the highest score you can. (Try to beat the “magical score” of 100 points.) You start the game with 2 Food.
 
Use the game boards for the 
2-player game and cover some 
of the Action spaces with 
Overview cards as indicated in 
the following illustration. 
Place the Action space cards face-down on the empty spaces of the game board as indicated by the following table:
1 Blacksmithing
4 Wish for children
7 Ore delivery
10 Ore trading
2 Sheep farming
5 Donkey farming
8 Family life
(Wish for children 
 
Urgent wish for children)
11 Adventure
3 Ore mine construction
6 Ruby mine construction
9 -
12 Ruby delivery
Use a Dwarf card to cover the “Wish for children” Action space card. At the beginning of round 4, remove the Dwarf card 
from the game. Make sure the Action space card shows “Wish for children”.
There are no Harvest events in the solo game. From round 5 on, there is a harvest at the end of every round. 
In comparison with the 2-player game
As in the 2-player game, the “Exploration” Action space card has to be removed from the game and round 9 will be skipped. 
You can cover Round space 9 with a Dwarf card to indicate this. Unlike the 2-player game, Rubies will accumulate on the 
“Ruby mining” Action space from round 1 on.
Refilling the accumulating spaces
Before refilling the accumulating spaces, check if there are any spaces with more than 6 goods. Remove all the goods 
from all of the spaces where this is the case and return them to the general supply. For each Ruby you spend, you can prevent 
this from happening for one of these spaces. The goods on the accumulating spaces that you paid a Ruby for will be safe for 
another round. (This way an accumulating space may accumulate more than 6 goods.)
Other than that, there are no further changes to the rules.
Supplies
Wood gathering
Use this card in the 
solo game to cover 
Wish for children.
Developing wish
for children
Skip round 9
play 1 Dwarf out of order
Sow
breed up to 
2 types
of Farm animals
Accumulating space 7, 8, 24
Action space card 3, 7, 24
Agriculture 5, 14, 18
Animal husbandry 4, 5, 20
Begging markers 10, 23
Breeding 10
Building materials 8, 11
Cattle 11, 17, 20
Caverns 4, 11, 13, 14, 17
Dogs 10-12, 20
Donkeys 11, 18, 20
Dwelling 2, 9, 14
Entry-level dwelling 2, 4, 10, 15, 20
Expedition 21-22
Family growth 11, 15, 16
Farm animals 10, 12, 20, 23, 24
Feeding the family 9, 11
Fences 4, 19
Food 2, 9, 11
Forge a Weapon 5, 20, 22
Gold/Gold points 11, 23
Grain/Vegetables 11, 14, 23
Harvest (event) 2, 9, 10, 24
Harvest markers 2, 7, 8, 10
Imitation 12, 22
Landscape tiles 3
Mines 5, 12, 16, 17, 23
Minus points 6, 12, 23
Ore 5, 12, 16, 18
Parent animals 10
Play order of Dwarfs 8, 17, 21
Rubies 4, 5, 11, 12, 17-19, 22-24
Scoring 6, 23
Sheep 11, 18, 20
Single tiles 5, 17 
Stables 2, 5, 10, 19, 20
Starting player 2, 8, 12, 22
Tunnel/Deep tunnel 16
Twin tile 11-13
Two-player game 2, 3, 6, 8, 17
Weapon (strength) 5, 12, 20-22
Wish for children 3, 8, 9, 11, 15, 16 
(and after the game)
Water source 12, 13
Wild boars 10, 13, 20
Keyword index