The players embody master builders. By building the King’s 
castle and developing the city around it, they earn presti-
ge points and gain the King’s favor. When the castle is fi-
nished, the player who has earned the most prestige wins 
the game.
Caylus - english rules
A game by William Attia
Illustrations by Arnaud Demaegd - Graphic design by Cyril Demaegd
Contents
● 1 board 
● 1 white ‘bailiff’ cylinder and 1 white ‘provost’ disc
● 30 one denier coins and 10 five denier coins
● 30 ‘worker’ cylinders (6 for each color: blue, red, green, orange and black)
● 100 houses (20 for each color: blue, red, green, orange and black)
● 35 marker discs (7 for each color: blue, red, green, orange and black)
	
● 140 resources cubes (30 pink, purple, brown and gray cubes; 20 yellow cubes)
● 40 building tiles (6 neutral tiles, 8 wooden tiles, 9 stone tiles, 8 residential tiles, 9 prestige tiles)
● this booklet
Goal of the game
Once upon a time...
1289. To strengthen the borders of the Kingdom of France, 
King Philip the Fair decided to have a new castle built. For 
the time being, Caylus is but a humble village, but soon, 
workers and craftsmen will be flocking by the cartload, at-
tracted by the great prospects. Around the building site, a 
city is slowly rising up… 
Setup
N.B.: The same rules apply for 3, 4 or 5 player games. Adjustments for the 2 player game are explained at the end of this 
booklet.
● The board is placed at the center of the table. The brown, gray and blue building tiles are sorted out by color, and placed 
face up on the side of the board. The green tiles are piled up close by. A player mixes the six pink tiles and puts them ran-
domly on the first six spaces of the road (11).
● Resource cubes and coins are sorted out and placed next to the board (this is going to be the stock).
Reminder: the small coins are worth 1 denier; the big coins are worth 5.
● Each player chooses a color and takes all the corresponding wooden pieces. Each player puts one marker next to the 
turn order scale (2), and another on the bridge, close to the passing scale (10), and places a marker on each of the four 
fleur-de-lises symbolizing the King’s favor (3). The last marker is placed on space 0 of the score track (1).
● One of the players takes all the markers which have been next to the turn order scale (2) and puts them randomly on the 
numbered spaces to determine the order of play for the first turn. The player whose marker is on space 1 takes 5 deniers 
from the stock. The players whose markers are on spaces 2 and 3 both take 6 deniers. The players whose markers are on 
spaces 4 and 5 both take 7 deniers. Each player also takes 1 wood cube and 2 food cubes from the stock. The players’ 
deniers and cubes remain visible throughout the game.
● The bailiff and provost pawns are placed on the last neutral tile of the road (see the diagram opposite). 
Board
Wood
Stone
Prestige
Residential
Food
Wood
Stone
Cloth
Gold
Bailiff
Provost
Worker
Ressources :
Buildings :
Marker
House
Pawns :
Scoring track
Turn order
Favor table
Castle scale
Counts
Dungeon
Walls
Towers
Special buildings
Passing scale
Neutral buildings
Basic buldings
Counts
End bonus

Game principles
Each player plays the part of a master builder and has a team of 6 workers, some resources and a little money (deniers). 
The workers can be placed either in the city or in the castle:
	
● the city : 
At the beginning of the game, the city is nothing but a small village. Apart from special buildings (an inn, a sta-
ble,...), there are only a few resource buildings (a farm, a sawmill, a quarry, …), a small marketplace and carpen-
ters who can build wooden buildings. However, players have to develop the economic activity along the road, 
because huge resources are needed to build the castle. They must therefore install better production sources, 
and maybe find a mason who will help them build stone buildings, or even reach that remote gold mine…
But those things are very expensive, and the master builders will have to watch their purse carefully! Indeed, 
every time a worker goes to work, his master must pay him. Moreover, if his master sends him to work in another 
master’s building, the latter will gain prestige. To win the game, you must take advantage of the other players’ 
resources without uselessly giving them an advantage.
Slowly but surely, the village is developing into a town. Old production buildings are becoming obsolete, unless 
the lawyer transforms them into residential buildings, whose rent brings you additional income. If an architect 
enters your service, you may embellish the city with some prestige buildings (a statue, or even a cathedral). But 
of course, master builders do not lay down the law in town; they must abide by the orders of two royal agents: the 
bailiff and his assistant, the provost.
The provost is a powerful and zealous officer. According to his position along the road, he decides which buil-
dings may be activated and, consequently, which workers will be able to work during this turn. Fortunately, the 
provost is corruptible. For a few deniers, it is easy to help him reach a specific building, or even have him go 
backward along the road to prevent another master’s workers from working.
As for the bailiff, he’s only interested in the castle building’s progress. He always moves forward along the road, 
forcing the masters to build faster…
	
● the castle : 
The castle is composed of 3 sections: a dungeon, walls, and towers. The bailiff’s movement along the road de-
termines the advance of work in the castle, and the shift from one section to the other. By advancing quickly (and 
well!) in the building of the castle, the masters accumulate prestige. If you are shrewd, you will also be able to 
gain the King’s favor!
At the end of the game, each player adds up the prestige points they have earned since the beginning. The master who has 
the largest number of points wins. His future at the King’s service will be glorious! 
Conventions
Here are some explanations for some symbols used in the game.
2 cubes (either identical or different) of food, wood, stone and/or cloth (no gold)
1 cube of any kind (even gold)
Win 3 prestige points (victory points)
4 deniers
Choose a royal favor
Dungeon
Walls
Towers
Progress of the Game
The game is divided into turns. Each turn is divided into 7 phases.
Phase 1 - Collecting the incomes
Each player gets 2 deniers from the stock. Furthermore, each 
player also gets:
- 1 denier per residential building (green background) they 
own,
- 1 denier if they have built the Library,
- 2 deniers if they have built the Hotel.
The income a player may get is not limited.
Phase 2 - Placing the workers
Following the turn order, the players carry out an action. They 
may choose to:
a) pass,
b) put a worker on a special / neutral / basic (fixed) building,
c) put a worker on one of another player’s buildings,
d) put a worker on one of their own buildings,
e) put a worker in the castle.
Phase 2 lasts until all the players have passed. 
Putting a worker on a prestige building (blue), on a residential 
building (green) or on an unbuilt space is forbidden. Placing 
a worker on a space where there already is another worker is 
also forbidden, except in three cases (stable, inn, castle - see 
below).
Passing is free, but placing a worker costs some deniers.
a) passing
If a player wants to pass or must pass because of a lack of 
workers or money, they put their color marker (located on the 
bridge) on the first available space (that is, on the smallest un-
occupied number) of the passing scale. The first player who 
passes gets 1 denier from the stock immediately.
Once a player has passed, they can’t place workers until the 
end of the phase.
b) placing of a worker on a special / neutral / basic build-
ing
The player gives the stock a sum of money that is equal to the 
smallest unoccupied number on the passing scale (between 1 
and 5 deniers according to the number of players who have al-
ready passed). Then, the player places one of their workers on 
the space of a special / neutral / basic building of their choice.
If the worker is placed in the stables, the player puts him on the 
smallest number available. Up to 3 workers can be placed in 
the stable, but a given player can place only one.
If the worker is placed in the inn, the player puts him on the 
circle on the left. As a consequence, this worker will possibly 
spend some time with another worker placed on the other cir-
cle on the right (one player may have two of their workers in the 
inn simultaneously).
Example: At his turn, Blue decides to pass. He takes his 
marker from the bridge and places it on the first empty 
space of the passing scale. No one has passed yet, 
so Blue takes 1 denier from the stock. From now on, 
Green, Orange and Red will have to pay 2 deniers to 
place workers in another player’s building.
Example (cont’d) : At his turn, Green decides to put a 
worker on the pedlar space (basic building). Since Blue 
has already passed (see previous example), Green has 
to pay 2 deniers for this action.

c) placing a worker on another player’s building
The player who places the worker gives the stock a sum of 
money that is equal to the smallest unoccupied number on 
the passing scale (between 1 and 5 deniers according to the 
number of players who have already passed). Then, the player 
places one of their workers on the opponent’s building of their 
choice. The owner of the building instantaneously earns 
one prestige point.
d) placing a worker on of your own buildings
The player pays 1 denier to the stock. Then, the player plac-
es his worker. 
NB: Placing a worker in one of your own buildings does not 
yield a prestige point.
e) placing a worker in the castle
The player gives the stock an amount of money that is equal 
to the smallest unoccupied number on the passing scale (be-
tween 1 and 5 deniers according to the number of players who 
have already passed). Then, the player places the worker on 
the castle space with the smallest number available.
The castle may contain several workers, but each player can 
only place one.
Phase 3 - Activating special buildings
Special buildings are activated in order:
a) the gate
If a worker has been placed on this space, his master may 
place it on any unoccupied space at no cost. Thus, the worker 
can be placed in another unoccupied special building, in the 
castle, the inn or in the stable (if the player doesn’t already have 
a worker there) or in any other building. If the player chooses to 
put his worker on another player’s building, the latter immedi-
ately earns 1 prestige point. If the player does not want to move 
his worker (or cannot do it), they just get their pawn back.
b) the trading post
The player takes 3 deniers from the stock and gets the worker 
back.
c) the merchants’ guild
The player may choose to move the provost 1 to 3 spaces 
backward or forward along the road. The player then gets the 
worker back.
d) the joust field
The player may choose to give the stock 1 denier and 1 cloth 
cube in order to get a royal favor (see below). The player then 
gets the worker back. NB: You cannot pay 1 denier and 1 cloth 
several times to gain a favor more than once a turn.
e) the stables
The turn order changes: if a player places a worker on circle 
1, they become player number 1; the second circle grants you 
rank 2; the third circle grants rank 3. The other players’ posi-
tions are changed accordingly on the turn order scale. Then, 
the players get their workers back from the stable.
Example (cont’d): At his turn, Orange passes.
Example (cont’d): Red places a worker on Green’s ma-
son. The cost is 3 deniers (since Blue and Orange have 
passed). Furthermore, Green gains 1 prestige point.
Example (cont’d): Green passes. Red places his worker 
on his farm, which costs him only 1 denier.
Example (cont’d): Finally, Red places a worker in the 
castle, taking the first spot available (behind Blue’s 
pawn). Since Blue, Orange and Green have passed, 
Red must pay 4 deniers.
Gate
Trading post
Merchants’ guild
Joust field
Stables
Example (cont’d): During this turn, Blue has placed a 
worker on 1 in the stable. Red has placed one on num-
ber 2. The turn order, which was Red / Green / Orange 
/ Blue, changes. Blue now comes first, and Red comes 
second. Green now slips to the third position, and Or-
ange comes last. This will be the new turn order from 
now on.
f) the inn
If a player has placed a worker during this turn, the worker is 
now moved to the circle on the right (the worker will remain 
there for the next turn). The worker who previously occupied 
this circle is driven out and gets back to his master.
If a player put a worker on the inn in a previous turn and if the 
worker hasn’t been driven out (that is, if nobody has played in 
the inn during this turn), they can either get the pawn back or 
leave it where it is for the next turn. If the pawn is not removed, 
its owner will still be able to use the power granted by the inn 
in the next turn. 
The player who occupies the circle on the right always pays 1 
denier to place their workers, no matter how many players 
have passed (the player’s opponents still gain 1 prestige point 
every time the former uses their buildings).
Phase 4 - The provost’s move
Following the passing order of phase 2 (that is, the first player 
who passed speaks first), the players now have the opportunity 
to move the provost. The latter’s final position will determine 
which buildings will be activated.
Each player can move the provost 1 to 3 spaces forward or 
backward by paying 1 denier per space. It is also possible to 
pass.
The provost’s move may raise discussions among the play-
ers, but agreeing to exchange something is forbidden. Further-
more, a player doesn’t have to keep their word when their time 
to move the provost has come. The provost can neither go 
backward to the area before the bridge (that is, to the special 
buildings), nor go beyond the last space of the road. The pro-
vost can move to empty spaces.
When each player has spoken or passed once, move on to 
phase 5.
Phase 5 - Activation of the buildings
Buildings are activated in order (following the road) from the 
first space after the bridge to the space the provost is now oc-
cupying. The buildings beyond the provost’s current loca-
tion will not be used. The players who have workers on these 
unused buildings get them back without a compensation (the 
prestige points granted by these workers are not canceled). 
A player doesn’t have to apply the effect of a building, unless 
it is a production building. Once a building has been acti-
vated, the player gets their worker back, and the next building 
is activated.
a) production buildings
These buildings allow the player who activates them to take 
cubes from the stock. The cubes are placed before the player.
Furthermore, if a stone production building (gray background) 
is activated by anyone but its owner, the latter takes one re-
source cube (chosen among the resources produced by the 
building) in the stock. If the building is activated by its owner, 
the latter takes the normal income granted by the building, but 
no additional cube.
Example: During this turn, Blue was on the right circle of 
the inn. It only cost him 1 denier to place a worker. Dur-
ing the worker placing phase, Green placed a worker on 
the left circle. When the inn is activated, Blue is driven 
out, and Green takes his place. He will stay there until 
he is driven out or he chooses to take it back in a subse-
quent turn. Until then, he only pays 1 denier per worker 
he places.
Example: During the turn, Blue passed first, followed by 
Orange, Red and Green. Following this passing order, 
the players now have the opportunity to move the pro-
vost. Blue passes. Orange wants to move the provost 
2 spaces backward, and thus gives the stock 2 deniers. 
Red and Green’s pawns can’t be activated anymore. 
Red pays 2 deniers to have the provost move 2 spaces 
forward, but Green decides to pay 1 to have the provost 
move back 1 space. Green’s building will be activated, 
but not Red’s. As a result, the provost has ended one 
space behind his starting position in this turn.
Wood farm: produces 2 food cubes OR 1 cloth cube.
Stone farm: produces 2 food cubes AND 1 cloth cube. 
If it is activated by anyone but its owner, the latter takes 
either 1 food cube OR 1 cloth cube in the stock.

b) construction buildings
They allow you to build new buildings on the board:
- the carpenter allows you to build wood craft buildings only 
(tiles with a brown background).
- the mason allows you to build stone craft buildings only (tiles 
with a gray background).
- the architect allows you to build prestige buildings only (tiles 
with a blue background).
It is only possible to build a building if it is still available in the 
stock. To build a craft building, the player has to pay its price in 
cubes (the price is given in the top left-hand corner of the tile) 
with their own stock. Then, the new building is placed on the 
first free (unbuilt) space on the road, and the owner puts one of 
his houses on the top left corner of the tile. The player immedi-
ately scores the number of prestige points for the construction 
of this building (the number of prestige points is shown in the 
top right corner of the tile).
Prestige buildings follow the same rules, but they can only be 
built on the sites of the residential buildings owned by a given 
player (see the lawyer below). In such a case, the green build-
ing is discarded and replaced with the chosen prestige build-
ing. The construction of some prestige buildings give some 
advantages to their owner:
- the statue, the theater, the university: the builder immediately 
gains 1 royal favor.
- the monument: the player who builds the monument immedi-
ately gains 2 royal favors (see below).
c) the lawyer
The lawyer allows the player to transform a neutral building 
(with a pink background) or one of their own craft buildings into 
a residential building (with a green background). To transform a 
building, the player must give the stock 1 cloth cube and 1 de-
nier. Then, the player replaces the chosen building with a resi-
dential building and immediately gains 2 prestige points. The 
player must put one of his houses on the tile of the residential 
building. From now on, during phase 1, this building will yield 
1 denier of additional income for its owner. If the residential 
building is changed into a prestige building at some point, this 
additional income is lost. 
NB: Whenever a player’s building is transformed, it goes back 
into the stock and can consequently be rebuilt. Neutral build-
ings are permanently discarded. The number of residential 
buildings available is theoretically limitless. If you run short of 
them, you can put your houses on empty spaces instead.
The lawyer can’t transform a prestige building, a basic building 
or a residential building. Furthermore, the lawyer can never 
be transformed. If there is a worker in the building the player 
wants to transform, the latter pays immediately, but the lawyer’s 
action will be delayed until the building has been activated. 
Example: Red has one of his workers on the neutral carpen-
ter, and wants to build a wood farm. He pays 1 food cube 
and 1 wood cube – taken from his own reserve – to the 
stock, and places the farm on the first space available on 
the board. He puts a small house on the farm to show it is his 
property and immediately gains 2 prestige points (as shown 
in the top right-hand corner of the tile).
Example: Green has placed one of his workers on the archi-
tect (since this building belongs to Blue, the latter gained 1 
prestige point thanks to Green’s worker), and wants to build 
the Statue. Green pays 1 gold cube and 2 stone cubes – tak-
en from his own reserve – to the stock. He discards one of 
his residential buildings and replaces it with the Statue. He 
immediately gains 7 prestige points and 1 royal favor.
Example: Blue has placed one of his workers on the lawyer 
(which building belongs to him; consequently Blue doesn’t 
gain any prestige point), and wants to build a residential 
building. He pays 1 cloth cube and 1 denier – taken from 
his own reserve – to the stock. He turns a neutral quarry 
(he could also have chosen one of his own buildings) and 
transforms it into a residential building. He put a house on 
the tile and immediately gains 2 prestige points. At each sub-
sequent turn, he will earn an additional income of 1 denier. 
d) marketplaces
Marketplaces allow you to sell 1 cube to the stock and get de-
niers in return (the price depends on the market). It is not al-
lowed to sell several cubes at once.
e) the pedlars
For a few deniers, pedlars allow you to buy 1 or several cubes 
from the stock. They don’t allow you to buy gold. At the basic 
(fixed) pedlar’s shop, you can’t buy more than 1 cube. The non-
basic pedlar (the wood building) allows you to buy 1 or 2 cubes 
of your choice. 
f) the church
The church allows you to exchange deniers for prestige points. 
The player can either pay 2 deniers and get 3 points, or pay 4 
deniers and get 5 points.
NB: The player who builds this building gains 4 prestige points 
and a royal favor (see below) when he places it on the board. 
g) the tailor
The tailor allows you to exchange cloth cubes for prestige 
points. The player may either choose to pay 1 cube and get 2 
points, or to pay 3 cubes and get 6 points.
h) the bank
The bank allows you to exchange deniers for gold cubes. The 
player can either pay 2 deniers and get 1 gold cube, or pay 5 
deniers to get 2 gold cubes.
i) the alchemist
The alchemist allows you to exchange cubes for gold. A player 
can either pay 2 cubes (of any good) and get 1 gold cube, or 
pay 4 cubes (of any good) and get 2 gold cubes.
Phase 6 - Buiding of the castle
This phase only concerns those players who have placed a 
worker in the castle.
The castle is divided into three sections:
- the Dungeon (composed of 6 parts) is built before the first 
count.
- the Walls (composed of 10 parts) are built before the second 
count.
- the Towers (composed of 14 parts) are built before the third 
and last count.
The players must build the castle according to their order on 
the castle scale (beginning with space 1). The player decides 
during their turn how many batches they will give the stock. A 
batch must be composed of three different cubes, one of 
which must be a food cube. 
Example: During this turn, Red and Green have both placed 
one worker in the castle (where the Dungeon is being built). 
Red, whose pawn is one space 1, starts the construction. 
He gives athe stock a batch (food+stone+wood) and puts 
one of his houses on one of the free spaces in the Dungeon. 
He gains 5 prestige points. Now, it is Green’s turn to offer 
batches.
Marketplaces
Pedlars
Church
Tailor
Bank
Alchemist

Every time a player gives the stock a batch, he has the right to 
put a house in the section of the castle which is currently under 
construction (as we’ll see below, it is the bailiff’s progress on 
the board which determines which section is under construc-
tion). If there is no more room in this section, the player may 
start building the next section (nevertheless, if the players are 
building the Towers – which are the last section – it is possible 
that some of them will not be able to give batches).
Finally, the construction of a new section may begin before the 
previous one is finished (there are still free spaces left). In this 
case, the spaces will remain unoccupied until the end of the 
game.
If a player has placed a worker in the castle but won’t or can’t 
give a batch (for instance, if they don’t have enough different 
cubes), they lose 2 prestige points (it is not possible to go 
below 0 point, though). This penalty does not apply if, during 
the building of the Towers, a player can’t give a batch because 
there is no room left (if the player owns a batch, they keep the 
cubes and their prestige is not affected).
The players gains prestige points whenever they help build the 
castle:
- for each batch they provide to build the Dungeon, the player 
gains 5 prestige points,
- for each batch they provide to build the Walls, the player gains 
4 prestige points,
- for each batch they provide to build the Towers, the player 
gains 3 prestige points.
Finally, you determine which player has provided the most 
batches during this turn (in other words, which player has 
placed the most houses). This player immediately gains 1 royal 
favor (see below). If several players are tied, the one who 
arrived first gains the favor.
The players now get their workers back from the castle.
Counts : 
According to the section (the Dungeon, the Walls or the Tow-
ers) you are counting, each player, following the turn order, 
counts the number of castle parts they have built (that is, the 
number of houses they have placed in the given section) and 
refers to the corresponding count table. If you are counting a 
section while houses have already been placed in the next 
section because of the lack of room, the latter houses are not 
taken into account. 
Dungeon :
	
no house ► -2 prestige points
	
2 houses & more ► 1 royal favor
Walls :
	
no house ► -3 prestige points
	
2 houses ► 1 royal favor
	
3 or 4 houses ► 2 royal favors
	
5 houses & more ► 3 royal favors
Towers :
	
no house ► -4 prestige points
	
2 or 3 houses ► 1 royal favors
	
4 or 5 houses ► 2 royal favors
	
6 houses & more ► 3 royal favors	
When the count is over, wherever the bailiff may be on the 
road, the player must now concentrate on the next section of 
the castle, even if there are some empty spaces left in the sec-
tion that has just been counted. If the section of the Towers has 
just been counted, the game is over (see below).
Phase 7 - End of the turn
The bailiff moves along the road. He always moves forward 
(consequently, he moves away from the castle). He may move 
on empty spaces. His movement is determined by the provost’s 
current position:
- If the provost is located after the bailiff along the road (that 
is, farther away from the castle), the bailiff moves 2 spaces 
forward.
- If the provost is located before the bailiff along the road (that 
is, closer to the castle) or on the same space, the bailiff only 
advances by 1 space. 
Once the bailiff has moved, place the provost on the space the 
bailiff has just reached. Then, see if a count is necessary: if the 
bailiff, during his move, reached or went past Dungeon count, 
Walls count, Towers count spaces, or if a section has been 
completed during this turn, proceed to count (in any case, there 
will only be one count per section).
Then, a new turn begins.
There are several ways to gains favors:
- by using the joust field,
- by building specific buildings (the Church, the Statue,…)
- by being the best builder in the castle sections,
- during the count of the Dungeon, the Walls or the Towers
The King’s favor is represented with a 4-lined table. The lines 
are:
a) increase in prestige points,
b) gain in deniers,
c) gain in resource cubes,
d) exclusive use of some buildings.
Each line is divided into 5 columns with an increasing power 
(from the left to the right). For each line, the first two columns 
are available from the start of the game. Columns 3 and 4 are 
available after the count of the Dungeon section (even if play-
ers have already started building in the next section). Column 5 
is available after the count of the Walls section (even if players 
have already started building the next section). Several players 
may be on the same space at the same time.
Whenever a player earns a favor, they must choose a line at 
once, and, if it is possible, advance their marker to the right. 
Then, the player can use one of the effects provided on the 
chosen line, between level 1 and the level currently indicated 
by the marker. 
Royal favors
Example (cont’d): Green proposes 2 batches. He places 2 
houses in the castle, but since there is only 1 space left in 
the Dungeon, Green puts one house in the Dungeon sec-
tion, and one house in the Walls section. He gains 9 prestige 
points (5 points for the house in the Dungeon, and 4 points 
for the house in the Walls section). 
For this turn, Green has built the most houses in the cas-
tle. He thus gains a royal favor. Had Green only spent one 
batch, he would have gained 5 prestige points, and Red 
– who was the first player to place a worker in the castle this 
turn – would have gained the royal favor.
Example: The provost is a few spaces behind the bailiff on 
the road. The latter moves 1 space forward. Then the pro-
vost is placed on the bailiff’s new space. The space which 
triggers the Dungeon count has not been reached yet, so 
the players will only proceed to count the Dungeon if its con-
struction is finished (as in the previous example).
Example: The provost is one space farther than the bailiff on 
the road. The bailiff moves 2 spaces forward. Then the pro-
vost is placed on the same space. The space which triggers 
the count in the Dungeon has been reached. The players 
proceed to count the Dungeon (unless the count was made 
in a previous turn because the Dungeon was already full, in 
which case the players can move on to the next turn).
Example: The Dungeon section must be counted. The turn 
order is Red, Blue, Orange, and finally Green. Each player 
refers to the Dungeon count table. Red put houses on 2 
spaces and gains 1 favor. Blue built 3 parts and gains 1 favor 
too. Orange has not built anything yet, so they lose 2 pres-
tige points (NB: you can’t have less than 0 point). Finally, 
Green put 1 house in the Dungeon and gains nothing (the 
green house in the Walls section is not counted in).
The table of royal favors
a)
b)
c)
d)

End of the game
Hints
Thanks
Caylus for 2 players
Simplified favor
The player can advance the marker to level 2 of a given line, 
and choose to use the effects of level 1. It is not possible to 
advance your marker on a given line and use the effect of 
another line. Once level 5 has been reached, the marker can’t 
go any further, but the player can still choose the line and take 
advantage of the effect of their choice. 
If a player gains several favors during the same phase (for 
instance, during a count or when the monument is built), the 
favors must be used on different lines. So, it is impossible 
to gain more than 4 favors in a phase.
a) increase in prestige points
The player gains between 1 and 5 prestige points, depending 
on the column the marker is in (it is useless to activate a lower 
column). 
b) gain in deniers
The player gains between 3 and 7 deniers, depending on the 
column the marker is in (it is useless to activate a lower col-
umn).
c) gain in resource cubes
- column 1: the player gains 1 food cube
- column 2: the player gains 1 wood cube or 1 stone cube
- column 3: the player gains 1 cloth cube
- column 4: the player 1 of his cubes for 2 cubes of their choice 
(no gold)
- column 5: the player gains 1 gold cube
d) the exclusive use of some buildings
This line allows you to use the effect of some construction 
buildings directly. To use the effect of a given building, it 
doesn’t have to be on the board (for instance, you can use 
column 3 even if there is no mason on the board). Buildings 
are constructed according to the rules of phase 5.
- column 1: no effect.
- column 2 (carpenter): the player can build a wood building by 
paying 1 wood cube less.
- column 3 (mason): the player can build a stone building by 
paying 1 stone cube less.
- column 4 (lawyer): the player can transform one of their build-
ings or a neutral building into a residential building by paying 
only 1 cloth cube.
- column 5 (architect): the player can build a prestige building 
on one of his residential buildings.
The game ends right after the count of the Towers section (that is, after the bailiff has reached the Towers count space or 
when the 14 parts of the Towers have been built).
The players add the following points to the points they have already gained during the game:
	
- 3 points per gold cube they have left,
	
- 1 point per 3 cubes they have left (no Gold),
	
- 1 point per 4 deniers they have left.
The player with the most prestige points wins the game. In case of draw for the first place, all the players who are tied 
win. 
Example: Orange has just gained a favor during the Dun-
geon count. He chooses the first line (prestige points), on 
which he already advanced in a previous phase. However, 
since the Dungeon is being counted, Orange can’t advance 
his marker. He leaves it on its space and gains 2 prestige 
points.
Example: The players are building the Towers. All the col-
umns of the favor table are now available. Blue has just 
gained a favor by building the church. He chooses the third 
line (resource cubes). He moves from the second to the third 
space and chooses to take a food cube from the stock (he 
is on space 3, so he has the choice between spaces 1, 2 
and 3).
Example: The players are building the Walls. Columns 3 and 
4 are now available in the favor table. Green has just gained 
a favor thanks to the joust field. He chooses the fourth line. 
He moves from space 2 to space 3 and chooses to build a 
park. He pays 1 food cube (since he has a 1 stone cube dis-
count), and places the parc tile on the first space available 
on the road. He puts a house on the tile and immediately 
gains 3 prestige points. 
The rules are similar except that:
- Both players start the game with 5 deniers.
- The turn order changes with each turn. A player plays first 
on one turn, and second on the next, and so on. Conse-
quently, the stables are not used.
- When a player passes, the other must pay 3 deniers (in-
stead of 2 in the normal rule) to play in a building they do not 
own. Playing in your own buildings still costs 1 denier. The 
inn keeps its power (the player whose pawn is placed on the 
right space pays 1 denier in every case).
This is a version for beginners. Royal favors are simplified, 
at the expense of some tactical richness!
Don’t use the favor table. When a player gains a favor 
(thanks to the joust field, by building the church, by mak-
ing the best offer in the castle, during the castle sections 
count or by building prestige buildings), they score 3 pres-
tige points. When you gain several favors at the same time, 
each favor is worth 3 points.
Caylus is an evolutive game. Depending on the players’ choices (which buildings should they build first? Will there be a 
lawyer? When will the mason arrive on the board?), the game will develop in different ways. Some games will see huge 
resources, others won’t. Some games will see the construction of prestige buildings, others won’t. However, the players 
will have to take advantage of the tough situations they will face. Here is some advice to help them make the most of their 
first games.
Resolution order: beginners may inadvertently be unable to activate a building. For instance, it takes a cloth cube and a 
denier to activate the joust field. The denier may come from the trading post, since it comes before the joust field on the 
road. However, the cloth cube must be in the player’s reserve at the beginning of the turn. Indeed, there is no cloth produc-
tion before the joust field. If a player has placed a worker on a farm or at a peddlar’s, hoping to use the cloth cube to activate 
the joust field, their plan will not succeed, since the cube will come too late!
Passing order: the later you pass, the more you will influence the provost’s move (if you have deniers, of course). The 
provost is extremely important to determine which workers will be activated and how fast the counts will come. A player who 
passes early and whose workers are too far on the road will probably be the victim of his opponents, who won’t hesitate to 
club together to make the provost go backward! On the contrary, a player who passes late can spend the deniers needed 
to activate all of his workers. 
Placing workers in an opponent’s building: it is often a clever move to place one’s pawns in the others’ buildings, even 
if they gain a prestige point. Indeed, using their buildings may yield much more. 
Special buildings: It is necessary to use special buildings cleverly if you want to win the game. The gate allows you to 
temporize, and pass later to hide your intentions.The trading post provides money at the best moment (that is right before 
the provost moves). The guild is an economical way to move the provost. The joust field allows you to take advantage of 
the King’s favor without having to build the castle. The first place in the stables allows you to ensure an important action for 
the next turn. The inn, especially in games with numerous players, allows you to save money or place more workers.
Royal favors: Royal favors are a good way to refine your strategy. The four lines of the table are useful. The usefulness of 
the prestige line is quite obvious, especially if the player concentrates on it. The deniers line allows the player to easily make 
up their losses. It also helps you get powerful effects if some buildings (the bank, the church) are built. The resource line al-
lows you to find the cube that will help you get the upper hand. It also grants you access to gold cubes. Finally, the building 
line allows a player whose strategy is based on the building of the castle to have an impact on the city at a lower cost.
The lawyer: You must choose carefully which building will be transformed by the lawyer. A player can destroy a neutral 
building which challenges one of their own buildings, or even destroy the marketplace to deprive all the players of a source 
of income.
The author would like to thank Cyril, Dominique, Nico, Emmanuel, Thomas, Raphi, Thomas, Adrien, Anne, Nico N., Laurent, 
Baptiste, Philippe and all the testers for their suggestions, enthusiasm and patience.
The publisher pirates this space to add Sissy, Arnaud, Raphi (I’d forgotten to thank him for Ys), Fabien, Ludwig, David and 
the Fireball team to the list.