Components
1 aircraft
6 “Adventurer” pawns
6 “Adventurer” tiles
9 oval “City” tiles 
4 Event” dice 
1 rulebook
2 – 6 players
8 +
30 minutes 
78 “Treasure” cards
distributed by city as follows:
D
 uring his travels, Gulliver searched in vain for the marvellous 
world of Celestia. In the steps of this storied adventurer, start your 
journey to celestial cities as mysterious as the treasures they hide. 
During your adventures, will you face threatening storms, Loc-
khars pirates, and Damok-birds. Will you be the cleverest pilot 
of the aircraft? Will your courage be rewarded?
x2
x2
68 “Equipment” cards: 
20 blue compasses, 
18 yellow lightning arresters 
16 red foghorns
14 black cannons
8 “Turbo” cards 
4 x 2 “Power” cards

 Preparation
Place the 9 “City” tiles in ascending 
order on the table (from the lowest (1) to 
the highest (25)). 
For each “City” tile, Shuffle the 
correspondingly 
numbered 
treasure 
cards and place them in a face down pile 
next to the “City” tile.
Place the aircraft on the first “City” 
tile. 
Each player chooses an “Adven-
turer” tile (he keeps it in front of him) 
and places the “Adventurer” pawn of the 
same color in the aircraft.
Shuffle all “Equipment”, “Power” 
and “Turbo” cards into a single deck. 
Each player is dealt a starting hand from 
this deck.
• 8 cards (2 or 3 players)
• 6 cards (4 or more players)
Players are allowed to look at their 
own cards. Place the remaining card 
deck facedown within easy reach of all 
players.
Use the method you want to choose 
a player to be the first captain of the 
aircraft.
Preparation of a 3-player game:
“Amelia, Orville and Ambroise each 
have 8 cards in hand. They place the 
aircraft on the Wind city ( 1 ) and their 
pawns in the aircraft.”
Discard

 Goal of the game
Each player aims to call at the farthest cities of the mysterious 
world of Celestia in order to discover incredible treasures. The 
player who forms the most valuable collection will win the game.
 Gameplay
A game of Celestia is made up of several journeys during which 
adventurers travel in an aircraft, from city to city, towards Meiji, 
the City of Lights (25). Each journey consists of a number of legs.
During the game, players will undertake different 
roles:
Captain : This player leads the aircraft during the current turn. 
He will have to overcome the events to reach the next city.
Passengers : These are the other players who are still in the 
aircraft and continue the journey with the captain.
Players take turns being the captain. 
The captain is responsible for bringing the aircraft to the next city. 
In order to do so, he will have to overcome all the challenges offered 
by this leg of the journey. Passengers must decide either to continue 
the journey or stay in the current city and claim one of its treasures.
If the captain is able to overcome the chal-
lenges (using “Equipment” cards), the 
journey goes on; otherwise the aircraft 
crashes.
 Progress of a leg
One leg of the journey is composed of five steps:
1. The captain rolls the dice to determine the challenges. 
2. Each passenger chooses to stay aboard or disembark.
3. The captain faces the challenges.
4. The captain moves the aircraft.
5. The captain passes the control of the aircraft to the next 
player.
The captain determines the challenges he will have to face. To do 
so, he rolls as many dice as indicated on the next “City” tile.
In order to continue the journey, the captain will have to discard 
specific «Equipment» cards to overcome the events shown on the 
dice.
See the section “Events & equipment” p. 4 for more details on the 
events and “Equipment cards”.
Caution: The captain shall NOT play the “Equipment” cards imme-
diately after rolling the dice. He must wait for the passengers to 
decide whether they want to stay aboard or not.
Except in particular cases (see Details p.7), the 
captain never abandons the aircraft.
The captain rolls the dice to determine the challenges.
Orville is the captain during 
the first round. The aircraft 
is situated on the first city 
tile: he rolls 2 dice which 
show «Lightning» and 
«Fog». In order continue 
the journey – and after 
each passenger 
has 
chosen to stay 
or not – he will have to play a “Lightning 
arrester” card to cope with the “Light-
ning” and a Compass” card to navigate in 
the “Fog”.

Starting with the player sitting immediately to the left of the cap-
tain, passengers (players still in the aircraft) take turns declaring 
whether they will stay aboard or not.
Passengers have two options:
If the passenger feels that the captain will be able to over-
come the challenges shown by the dice, 
he announces « I will stay » and leaves his pawn in the aircraft.
If the passenger feels that the captain will not be able to over-
come the challenges shown by the dice, 
he declares « I will leave ». 
In this case, he takes his “Adventurer” pawn out of the aircraft 
and puts it on his “Adventurer” tile. He then draws the top “Trea-
sure” card from the corresponding deck and adds it to his col-
lection. 
He is no longer a passenger, he does not take part in the rest 
of this journey.
At this moment, the captain may not disembark. 
(see Details p.7 )
Once all passengers have announced their intentions, and 
before the captain plays (or fails to play) his cards, “Power” 
cards may be used. See the “Cards” section p.6 for more 
details.
All players, including the captain, may play any number of 
“Power” cards any time during this period.
Each passenger chooses to stay aboard or disembark.
Events & equipment
This leg of the journey was uneventful
 No card is required.
The aircraft is entering thick clouds. It becomes 
impossible to see where to go. The use of a 
navigation instrument is required.
 Reveal a compass 
“Such a tiny cloud will not stop us. My 
compass is clear, the way is straight on!”
Lightning is about to strike the aircraft. The cap-
tain can save the crew by diverting the electrical 
discharge.
 Pull out your 
lightning arrester “Equipment” card. 
“Finally a storm, it will allow us to charge 
the batteries.”
A flock of damok-birds is surrounding the aircraft. 
They make threatening dives toward the passen-
gers. 
 Play your foghorn 
“Their shrill screams are nothing compared 
to the noise I can make with my horn. Dilly-
dilly, dilly-dilly...” 
A pirate aircraft appears on the horizon. Pirates 
are determined to steal from all passengers, if 
not seize the aircraft itself.
 Use your cannon 
“What is more dangerous than a pirate? A 
cannon pointing at a pirate!”
Amelia trusts in Orville : she decides to stay in the air-
craft. Ambroise prefers to disembark. He removes his 
“Adventurer” pawn from the aircraft and puts it on his 
“Adventurer” tile. He draws the top “Treasure” card from 
the deck at the Wind 
city.

The captain must use the required “Equipment” cards from his 
hand to overcome the challenges shown by the dice. The captain 
must play one “Equipment” card for each die.
If several dice depict the same challenge, the cap-
tain will have to play as many “Equipment” cards as the number of 
dice showing this challenge. Blank dice require no cards.
If the captain managed to overcome all the challenges by playing 
all the required “Equipment” (or “Turbo”) cards, he moves the 
aircraft to the next city. All played cards are discarded to the 
discard pile.
 
If the captain cannot face all the events, he plays no “Equipment” 
card at all and the aircraft crashes with all its passengers. None of 
these players receives any “Treasure” card. The current journey 
ends at this point and a new one begins.
Whatever the outcome of the previous, the passenger sitting to the 
left of the captain becomes the new captain.
A player who has left the aircraft cannot become 
the captain.
 
When a new journey begins:
Place the aircraft on the first “City” tile.
Return all “Adventurers” pawns to the aircraft. 
Each player draws a card from the “Equipment” card deck. 
 End of the game
Before the beginning of a new 
journey, if any player has reached 
50 points, the game ends imme-
diately. 
The player with the highest 
score is the winner.
The captain faces the challenges.
The captain moves the aircraft.
Orville is a great captain. He has a “Compass” card and 
a ‘‘Lightning arrester’’ card. He plays these two cards 
and 
he 
and 
Amelia 
continue to the next city. 
Ambroise 
watches 
the 
aircraft fly away since he 
got off.
Later during the journey, Amelia is the captain. In order to 
reach the next city, she must roll 2 dice. Orville stays in 
the aircraft. However, 
Amelia does not hold the 
required cards. Thus, the 
aircraft crashes. Neither 
Amelia 
nor 
Orville 
draws a “Treasure” card 
during this journey.
The captain passes the control of the aircraft to the next 
player.
After 
the 
crash, 
Ambroise becomes the 
new 
captain 
because 
he sits immediately to 
the left of Amelia, the 
previous captain, and is 
back on-board because 
a whole new journey 
begins.
 New Journey

Each “Turbo” card allows the captain to overcome 
any one challenge (one die result). 
The captain may choose not to play these cards 
(unlike the “Equipment” cards). 
He may use as many “Turbo” cards as he wishes.
 “Power” cards: Ejection (x2) 
• Only the captain, or passengers still aboard the air-
craft, may play these cards.
tions.
• The captain must not have played his “Equipment” 
cards yet. 
Effect : The player who plays an “Ejection” card forces another 
passenger (never the captain) to leave the aircraft immediately. The 
targeted passenger removes his pawn from the aircraft and puts it 
on his “Adventurer” tile. He then draws the first “Treasure” card of 
the current city and ends his journey there.
 “Power” cards: Jetpack (x2) 
• Only the captain or passengers still aboard the air-
craft may play these cards. 
• A “Jetpack” card can only be played when the air-
craft is about to crash. 
Effect : The player who plays a “Jetpack” card uses 
his jet pack and descends safely. 
He takes the top “Treasure” card from the farthest city reached by 
the aircraft on this journey, as if he had chosen to disembark.
 
• Only the captain or passengers of the aircraft can 
play these cards. 
tion. 
Effect : An “Alternative route” card allows the cap-
tain to re-roll any dice of his choice once, if he wishes. 
These cards can be played even after the captain 
has already claimed that he could not face the events. Passen-
gers may not change their decisions after the re-roll.
 “Power” cards: Wind Gust (x2) 
• Any adventurer may play a “Wind Gust” card, 
including one who has left the aircraft.
tions.
Effect : A “Wind Gust” card forces the captain to re-roll all the 
uneventful (blank) dice .
Players may not change their decisions after the 
re-roll. These cards can be played even after the captain has 
already claimed that he could overcome the challenges. 
 “Treasure” cards: Magic spyglass (x4) 
Caution : These cards are only present in the first 
4 cities.
• Only the captain or passengers still aboard the aircraft may play a 
“Magic Spyglass” card. 
• All passengers must have announced their intentions. 
• The captain must have announced that he cannot overcome the 
challenges. 
Effect : A “Magic spyglass” card allows the captain to find a route 
without any pitfalls. All challenges are ignored.
An unused “Magic spyglass” card earns 2 points at the end of the 
game as it was a standard treasure card.
 Cards
 “Turbo” cards (x8)
 “Power” cards: Alternative route (x2)

What happens if a captain is alone in the aircraft when he 
reaches a city? 
If all of the passengers abandon the aircraft, and the captain is able 
to overcome the challenges, he moves to the next city by himself. 
He may now take a treasure from this city, or attempt to go farther 
on his own. The captain may continue on his own for as long as he 
is willing to risk it.
What if the deck is empty? 
Shuffle the discard pile and place it face down to create a new deck.
What if there is no more treasure in a city? 
This city is no longer a stopover of the journeys and the aircraft 
does not stop over there anymore. To represent this, the “City” tile 
is removed or turned over on the table. If a passenger gets off and 
takes the last “Treasure” card of a city, no more passengers can get 
off here.
What if the aircraft reaches the last city (the tile 
numbered 25) ? 
In this case, starting with the captain and going clockwise, each 
player in the aircraft takes turn to draw a “Treasure” card of the 
last city. It may happen that one or more players do not receive any 
treasure: no luck for them! A new journey then starts at the first 
city. Note: It is always allowed to count the remaining “Treasure” 
cards in a city. 
Does the captain always have to play the “Equipment” 
cards if he has them? 
Yes. Nevertheless, he is never forced to play “Turbo” cards. 
Are the captain and passengers allowed to discuss before 
declaring if they will stay or not? 
Yes! Celestia is more fun when players try to influence each other. 
 
 Details
Amelia is the captain, and Orville is the only passenger. Af-
ter Amelia has rolled the dice, Orville decides to get off the 
aircraft. Amelia cannot get off now because there were two 
players on board at the beginning of the leg. 
Amelia succeeds in overcoming the events and reaches the 
next city. She is then alone on board at the beginning of the 
new leg. She chooses to land, so she does not roll the dice and 
draws the first “Treasure” card of the city where she lands.
The “Power” cards are discarded and will not be 
used in the game. 
The “Magic spyglass” cards are discarded, too. 
Nevertheless, the “Turbo” cards are used. 
The end of the game is different: 
At the beginning of a new journey, players check the 
number of different “Treasure” cards they own. The 
game ends as soon as a player has 5 different types of 
treasure. 
Then the points are counted as in the normal game.
Variant 
beginner adventurers
Tanguy, Luke and Buck are playing with the 
“Beginner adventurers” variant. 
While starting a new journey, they check their 
treasures. 
Although Tanguy has 7 “Treasure” cards and thinks 
he is going to win, he cannot end the game because 
he only has 4 different types of treasure. 
Later during the game he receives the fifth type 
of treasure, thus he ends the game but only at the 
beginning of the next journey. 
However, Buck, who only holds 4 cards, wins the 
game because he has more points. 
FAQ, player aid, wallpaper : www.blam-edition.com

Aaron Weissblum < Author
Aaron Weissblum lives in Maine, USA, with his wife Kate and 
their cat. Aaron makes games and puzzles when he is not riding 
his bicycle or whittling. 
Gaétan Noir < Illustrator
Gaétan Noir is a young French illustrator born in 1984 and living 
in Lyon. A Jack-of-all-trades, he’s interested in several fields, from 
video games to cartoons through illustration. 
Philippe Christin < Aircraft conception
A computer scientist, he practices several creative hobbies such as 
painting, miniatures and even 3D. 
Acknowledgements
Thanks to everyone for believing in, 
and participating in the creation of Celestia!
Summary of a play
1 - If the captain is alone in the aircraft, he can leave it. (
 9)
 
2 - The captain 
rolls the dice.
3 - Passengers choose if they stay 
or not in the aircraft.
4 -The “Ejection” 
card may be played by any player 
present in the aircraft. 
5- The captain declares if he can play
 “Equipment” cards or not. 
6- The ”Jetpack”, “Alternative 
route” and “Wind Gust” cards may 
be played.
7 - The captain plays the required 
“Equipment” cards OR the captain/
passengers may play the “Magic 
spyglass” card.
8 - If the journey continues, the captain 
changes. (
 1) 
9 - If a new journey starts, all players draw one “Equipment” 
card and put their pawn in the aircraft, which is placed on the 
first city. 
The captain changes. (
 2)	
 
+
?
!
...
= 50 ?
“Power" cards
Effect > Allows the player to take a “Treasure” card.
Who > All players
When > When the captain plays his cards.
Effect > Forces the captain to re-roll all the uneventful 
(blank) dice.
Effect > Allows the captain to re-roll as many dice as 
he wishes.
When > When all passengers have announced their 
intention. 
Effect > Forces the targeted passenger to get off the 
aircraft and take a “Treasure” card.
Graphism : Le monde est petit
Effect > Allows the passengers and the captain 
to reach the next city without playing any