Celtica 
 
Goal 
 
The players move the druids by playing matching-coloured cards. The aim is to visit 
as many monasteries and castles as possible, in which they discover Amulet pieces. In 
the ruins, players will lose amulet pieces to the Vikings. In their place, players will 
gain valuable experience cards that can be used to beat the other players to the most 
valuable amulets. The winner is the player who, at the end of the game, owns the most 
complete amulets. 
 
Preparation 
 
The board is placed in the middle of the table. The board shows 19 locations that are 
connected by a path. There are three types of location: 
 
Shrines: here the player receives an additional druid card; 
Strongholds (Castles, Monasteries, Villages, Journey’s End): here the 
player receives amulet tiles; 
Ruins: here the player loses amulet pieces but gains an Experience Card in 
consolation. 
All 5 druid figures begin on the start space. The druids do not belong to a particular 
player. Anyone may move each of them. 
 
The druid cards are well shuffled and each player is dealt 5 cards for the first round. 
These are kept secret from the other players. 
 
The experience cards are shuffled and placed as a face down pile next to the board. 
 
The amulet tiles are shuffled and laid out in several face down piles next to the board. 
Any 9 tiles are then taken and laid in any order face up in the appropriate spaces at the 
top of the board. 
 
Each player receives 2 amulet tiles from the face down piles and these are placed face 
up in front of them. 
 
During the game, when the player receives further amulet tiles, he lays them out 
immediately in the appropriate pattern and so that it is clear which pieces are collected 
together (see pictures on page 4). 
 
The course of the game 
 
The game is played over several rounds. The youngest player begins and other players 
follow in clockwise order. 
 
On a turn, the player moves a druid using his cards and carries out the relevant action 
in the location moved into. A round ends when all players have played all their druid 
cards. 5 cards are then dealt to each player to start a new round. 
 

 
Moving Druids 
 
On his turn, a player may play as many druid cards of one colour as he likes. The 
number of cards played determines how many spaces the druid of the matching colour 
moves forwards. 
 
Used cards are placed face up in a discard pile next to the board. Then the player 
carries out the action associated with the location the druid lands on (spaces moved 
over are not acted upon). 
 
a) The druid arrives at a stronghold (Castles, Monasteries, Villages, 
Journey’s End) 
The player takes as many amulet tiles from those displayed as is shown at the 
stronghold. These are placed immediately in the appropriate pattern and so 
that it is clear which pieces are collected together. If he takes a tile of the same 
type as one he has already collected, this must be placed separately to start a 
new amulet. 
 
Once the amulet pieces have been placed, the open amulet display is re-
stocked back up to 9 tiles. 
 
b) The druid arrives at a ruin 
At the ruins, Vikings lie in wait to steal amulets. The player must discard as 
many amulet tiles as is shown at the ruin. He may choose which tiles to 
discard and he may have to take pieces from a completed amulet if necessary. 
If the player has no amulet tiles, he does not discard anything and receives no 
penalty. 
 
The discarded tiles are placed face down in a separate pile next to the board. If 
the supply of amulet tiles is used up, the discarded tiles are shuffled and form 
a new face down supply of amulet tiles. 
 
In encountering the Vikings, the player gains experience and as consolation 
for losing amulet tiles, draws one Experience card from the face down display 
and adds it to his hand. An Experience card is also gained if the player didn’t 
have any amulet tiles to discard. 
 
c) The druid arrives at a shrine 
The player may if he wishes draw a druid card from the display. The card 
must be played in a subsequent turn during the current round. 
 
Often, there is an advantage in taking a druid card, as the player has more 
choice on how far to move a druid. However, it can be a disadvantage (the 
player may be forced to move a druid to the ruins). The player may, therefore 
choose not to take a druid card. 
 
Once the player has carried out his actions, and discarded the cards played, it is then 
the next player’s turn. 
 

Experience Cards 
 
At the ruins, a player will receive an Experience Card that can be used from his next 
turn onwards. 
 
One or more experience cards of the same colour may be played with a druid card of 
the matching colour to move the druid further forward. e.g. 2 red druid cards and 2 
red experience cards will move the red druid 4 spaces forwards. 
 
When played, experience cards are placed in an open discard pile next to the board. 
 
Experience cards can only be played as long as the player has at least one druid card 
of that colour in his hand. If the player only has experience cards in his hand, these 
cannot be played and the round is over for him. However, the experience cards are 
retained and can be used in a subsequent round. 
 
If, at the end of the game, the player still has experience cards left, he can use these as 
follows: 
• For 1 experience card, the player can exchange an amulet tile from one of his 
open displays with an open display of another player; 
• For 2 experience cards, he can draw an additional amulet tile from the 9 
displayed at the top of the board. 
 
If the draw pile of experience cards is used up, the discard pile is shuffled and forms a 
new draw pile. 
 
End of a Round 
 
Once a player has played all of his druid cards, the round is over for him. The other 
players continue to play until nobody has any druid cards left in his hand. The round 
is then complete. (Note: If only one player has druid cards left, he continues to take 
turns one after another until all his druid cards have been played) 
 
If no druid has reached the Journey’s End location, a further round is played and each 
player is dealt 5 new druid cards. 
 
If the draw pile of druid cards is used up, the discard pile is shuffled and forms a new 
draw pile. The next round begins with the player to the left of the one who played the 
last druid card. 
 
Game End 
 
The game draws to an end when the first druid reaches the Journey’s End location. 
The current round is played to a conclusion i.e. until all players have played their 
remaining druid cards. Players can, therefore, continue to move the remaining druids 
and gain or lose amulet tiles. 
 
If a player plays a Druid card of a druid who has already reached Journey’s End, these 
have no effect and are discarded. 
 

The game also ends if all druids have reached Journey’s End or there are no Amulet 
tiles in the display or draw piles. 
Players can then use any remaining Experience cards. The player to the left of the 
player who ended the game starts. 
 
• For 1 experience card, the player can exchange an amulet tile from one of his 
open displays with an open display of another player; 
• For 2 experience cards, he can draw an additional amulet tile from the 9 
displayed at the top of the board. 
 
These actions can be mixed in any way. With 4 Experience cards, a player could take 
one new Amulet tile and exchange 2 tiles. 
 
Once a player has used all his Experience cards, the Amulet display is filled back up 
to 9 tiles and the next player uses his Experience cards. 
 
The winner is the player with the most completed amulets. In a tie, the player (out of 
those tied) with the largest incomplete amulet wins. If still tied, the next largest 
incomplete amulets are compared and so on. 
 
 
English translation v.1 
by Garry Lloyd 22 January 2006 
Please notify any corrections to garry@trickylight.co.uk 
 
Celtica 
Wolfgang Kramer & Michael Kiesling 
© 2006 Ravensburger Spieleverlag GmbH