INTRODUCTION
Chancellorsville 1863 is one of the greatest campaigns 
in military history. Union General Joseph Hooker 
had devised a plan to out maneuver Confederate 
General Robert E. Lee and the confederate army. 
Outnumbering Lee at almost 2 to 1, Hooker started 
with a huge advantage. Using part of his army in front of 
Fredericksburg to pin Lee’s attention, Hooker took the 
other part of his army on a flanking march to a position 
across the Rappahannock and behind Lee. According to 
Hooker’s plan Lee would have no choice but to abandon 
his strong position at Fredericksburg and take flight for 
Richmond.
Lee had indeed been fooled and flanked. But Lee was not 
a man to follow other’s plans. Leaving a small holding 
force at Fredericksburg, Lee split his already smaller 
force and attacked Hooker just as he was clearing the 
Wilderness (a dense area of vegetation and forest). Lee 
not following what Hooker planned seemed to stun 
Hooker into inaction. Hooker stopped his advance and 
began to dig in, centering his line on the crossroads at 
Chancellorsville. 
Lee, ever the gambler, again split his smaller force. 
Lee would command a smaller holding force and send 
“Stonewall” Jackson with over half of the confederate 
army on a flanking march that would be studied by 
military historians for years. 
Chancellorsville 1863 now puts you in the positions 
of Lee and Hooker. You will command the Union and 
Confederate armies in a chess match of hidden movement 
and tactics. Can you outwit and outmaneuver your 
opponent (or the bot) taking advantage of your size and 
power as the Union commander; or as the Confederate 
player take advantage of your interior lines to strike your 
enemy at the point of your choosing?
The decisions are yours...
GAME OVERVIEW
The game centers around activating formations for the 
Union and Confederate players. The Confederates have 
5 formations, and the Union have 7 formations. Each 
formation can only be activated by the play of a formation 
activation card that has its formation named on the card. 
Each side only has 15 formation activation cards, and 
each specific formation has a very limited number of 
activations within those 15 cards. Each activation allows 
movement, combat, construction of redoubts and transfer 
of reinforcements. 
Each formation has a limited amount of cohesion. As 
formations are activated – move and have combat – their 
cohesion is reduced. 
When formations are activated, they generate 
momentum represented through Momentum cubes. 
Momentum cubes allow the purchase of Tactics cards 
which portray variables from the campaign and battle. 
Unique to this game is that some formations are moved 
on hidden movement mini maps, until revealed when 
crossing paths with opposing formations or entering 
certain locations on the game map.
Victory is obtained by destroying enemy formations or 
occupying victory locations.
RULE FORMATTING
DESIGN NOTES:
Blue boxes give designer’s thoughts on why certain concepts 
were applied to the game mechanics.
KEY RULES:
Green boxes break down the rule section to one or two 
important thoughts about that rule.
Game Examples: Grey boxes further explain game concepts.

4.  WHO SEES WHAT? WHEN?
Each player starts the game with some units visible to the 
enemy, and others not, which are placed on the Hidden 
Movement Map behind each player’s respective screen.
If, at any point in the game, units on the Hidden 
Movement Map occupy a referenced location that is 
adjacent (connected by lines and arrows) to an enemy unit 
on the main board it must be immediately transferred to 
the main board.
For example, during the Union turn they play a Major 
activation for Meade, who is currently on the Union Hidden 
Movement Map.
Meade moves from 3 to 11 then to 12. He must move the 
unit from the Hidden Movement Map to the main board to 
reveal his formation to the Confederate player, since he is now 
adjacent to Confederate formation Anderson. 
1.  TWO PLAYER AND SOLITAIRE RULES
The following rules are focused on the two-player version 
of the game. For rules specific to the solitaire version see 
the back of this booklet.
2.  GAME COMPONENTS
	» Game board
	» Rule book (two copies)
	» 7 blue Union named formation markers
	» 8 blue cubes for Union formation Cohesion and the 
General special ability on the board tracks
	» 3 blue cubes for Union control markers
	» 15 Union Player Activation cards
	» 15 Union BOT Activation cards
	» 12 Union Reinforcement cards
	» 1 Union screen, placed around the Union Hidden 
Movement Map on board
	» 5 red Confederate named formation markers
	» 7 red cubes for Confederate formation Cohesion and 
the General special ability on the board tracks
	» 15 Confederate Activation cards
	» 15 Confederate BOT Activation cards
	» 12 Confederate Reinforcement cards
	» 1 Confederate screen, placed around the Confederate 
Hidden Movement Map on board
	» 36 Tactics cards
	» 25 black Momentum cubes
	» 12 brown Redoubt cubes
	» 9 six-sided dice
* Extra cubes may be included for spares, be sure to play with the 
numbers given here, leaving any spares in the box. 
3.  GAME BOARD
The game board represents the Chancellorsville 
battlefield, and the positions of the Union and 
Confederate formations. Each formation is named for its 
commander and represented by a wooden troop marker.
Arrows and lines between locations show where 
formations may move on the battlefield when they are 
activated and under certain conditions. 
The movement locations have a dotted line and a location 
number that formations can move to and occupy. This 
movement location can be occupied by various formations 
from both sides. Locations are adjacent if connected by 
lines and arrows, including lines across rivers.
There are three victory locations on the game board are 
13, 18, and 22, they are identified by red circles. 

6.  FORMATION MARKERS ON THE 
GAME BOARD
Formations are represented by named wooden blocks, 
one block per named formation. These blocks are placed 
in the starting locations shown in the setup. Blue blocks 
are for Union formations, red blocks are for Confederate.
Any formation that fails its cohesion test or is driven to 
zero cohesion is considered destroyed and its formation 
marker is permanently removed from the game board.
A formation, once destroyed, may NEVER be 
reassembled, even by moving reinforcements back into it.
No more than two friendly formations can be in the 
same location at the same time (unless there is combat 
occurring, in which case there could be 2 defenders, and 1 
attacker temporarily in the same location).
Only two friendly formations may occupy a location at the 
same time.
If the situation changes, and enemy troops move away, 
then it’s possible that formations, once sighted, will 
become unsighted again, and so be removed from the 
main board back to the Hidden Movement Map.
Certain locations are colored red. These indicate locations 
deep inside Confederate lines of communication. Any 
Union formation that moves onto one of these locations 
on the Hidden Movement Map must be moved to the 
main map.
Similarly, locations that are colored blue indicate 
locations deep inside Union lines of communication, 
Any Confederate formation that moves onto one of these 
locations on the Hidden Movement Map must be moved 
to the main map. 
In addition, some locations are hashed red. These indicate 
a possible line of Union march being tracked by JEB 
Stuart’s cavalry. A formation (or formations if there are 
two of them in the same location) that is furthest along 
on this line of march will be visible to the Confederates, 
and so placed on the main board. Location 9 is further 
along than location 8, which is further along than 
location 1. Any Union formations that are behind the 
lead formation(s) cannot be seen by the Confederates 
and so would remain on the Hidden Movement Map, 
not on the board, unless actually adjacent to Confederate 
formation occupied locations.
Usually about a third or half way through the battle there 
are no longer any units unsighted, so the screens and 
Hidden Movement Maps can often be put aside at this 
point.
5.  OBJECTIVE LOCATIONS
There are 3 objective locations on the game board: 
Fredericksburg (location 13), Salem Church (location 
22), and Chancellorsville Junction (location 18). They are 
assumed to be Confederate controlled unless there is a 
Union control marker in them. A Union formation does 
not have to remain on the objective for the objective to 
remain Union controlled. Once controlled, at the end of a 
Union turn, a Union formation may move away from the 
objective. However, if a Confederate formation occupies 
a formation at the end of a Confederate turn, the Union 
control marker is removed and control reverts back to the 
Confederates.
Example of an Objective location. These are circled in red.
Example of units adjacent. Reynolds and Early are adjacent. Sickles 
is adjacent to Reynolds, but would only be on the Union Hidden 
Movement Map, since he is not adjacent to any Confederate unit.

7.  FORMATION AREAS ON THE GAME 
BOARD
Each side (Union and Confederate) has areas 
representing its formations on the game board. 
Formation areas shows how many dice it rolls in combat, 
and how many times it may be activated with the type of 
activation (major or minor).
Cohesion is tracked using cubes on each formation’s 
individual cohesion track, using the corresponding color - 
red for Confederate, blue for Union.
Cohesion is a numerical representation of a unit’s overall 
combat effectiveness. It combines concepts of troop numbers, 
morale, stamina, equipment, and experience, into one unified 
value for ease of play, and to concentrate the design lens on 
maneuver and high level strategies.
When formations are activated they reduce their 
cohesion by 1 and may have their cohesion reduced during 
combat. Once a formation cohesion total reaches 5, or lower, 
it must conduct a Cohesion Test to see if it breaks and is 
removed from the game (see paragraph 16 on page 11).
Formation Name
Cohesion Track
Starting Location(s)
Number of major 
activations
Number of dice 
used in attack
Number of minor 
activations
Formation Area Sample
Whenever commanders ask anything of their troops there 
is always a cost. Even troops who march happily into battle 
become tired. Troops riding a wave of elan cannot evade 
hunger or the need to sleep indefinitely. Campaigns take a toll 
on formations so long as those formations are put to any task. 
Accordingly, the game concept of Cohesion has formations 
‘degrade’ with use. This has the additional design benefit of 
ramping games to an end state, where multiple formations 
in play, especially those bearing the brunt of battle, will be 
red-lining their ability to remain effective. Formations are 
not only destroyed by dint of them being attacked by the 
enemy. They are also destroyed by dint of their own offensive 
endeavors.
8.  ACTIVATION CARDS
Each side has its own deck of Activation cards. When 
played, these cards activate the formations named. 
Activation cards also simultaneously generate momentum 
equal to the cubes shown on the bottom of the card. The 
player acquires the total of Momentum cubes shown 
from the common pool and adds to his own pool.
An activation card for a formation that is destroyed still 
collects Momentum cubes and bonus Momentum cubes 
when played. 
It also fulfills the requirement to play an activation card 
(one must be played each turn).
Instead of drawing from the top of your activation draw 
deck at the end of your turn, you can spend 5 Momentum 
cubes to get the activation card you want. (If it’s in the deck.) 
If the desired card is not in the deck you must draw from 
the top of your deck (and lose the 5 Momentum cubes).
REYNOLDS
Meade
Reduce cohesion for each activated formation.
Activation Card Sample
Momentum cubes awarded for 
playing this card.
Major Activation

One of the key features of the history of warfare is chaos over 
responsiveness. By which I mean, we see countless examples 
of units not following orders as intended, whether of the 
volition of their commander, or the troops themselves, or by 
accident through confusion. Just because a commander orders 
a unit to do something it doesn’t necessarily follow that it 
will do that thing, let alone in the intended time frame. The 
orchestration of multiple units - perhaps many thousands 
of men across many miles all facing their own local factors 
(topography, weather, enemies, etc.) is its own dark art. The 
game convention of move some, all, or none does a poor job 
of reflecting the press of time and the constraints commanders 
had restricting their knowledge and ability to convert an 
idea directly into action, let alone their capacity to neatly 
orchestrate complex and precise synergies of action.
This game’s activation system is an attempt to represent those 
practical constraints a commander experienced. The hand 
of three cards and the limitations on each formation means 
a player is not free at all times to ensure any unit they want 
will always perform the action they want when they want. 
The player is tasked with managing their hand to effect 
their intended strategies, pushed and pulled by the desire 
to maintain momentum (to match sets) and perhaps take 
advantage of available Tactics cards.
Activation cards allow each of the named formations to do 
one of three things:
1.	 Pay activation cost to move, twice with a major and once 
with a minor, or do nothing and not move.
2.	 Not pay activation cost and transfer reinforcements.
3.	 Not pay activation cost and build a redoubt.
9.  MAJOR AND MINOR ACTIVATIONS
Activation cards show combinations of major and minor 
activations for different formations on the same card. 
The formation written in the largest letters at the top, 
with the accompanying commander portrait is a major 
activation. Any other smaller names detailed are minor 
activations.
The active player can decide in which order to conduct 
these activations. 
In each case, ALL movement is completed for a formation 
before any combat it is involved in is resolved, and only then 
can movement for the second activated formation begin.
Whatever the order, an activated formation ALWAYS 
pays an activation cost (-1 of its cohesion total) to move 
with a Major or Minor activation or do nothing.
An activated formation does not pay activation cost if it 
has 3 redoubts in its location and chooses to do nothing, 
build a redoubt, or transfer reinforcements. Tactics card 
may also cause exceptions.
Pay activation costs ONLY when activating a Major or 
Minor activation for movement and to do nothing.
9.1  MAJOR ACTIVATION 
This permits the formation to move up to two locations, 
and to end their movement in a location occupied by the 
enemy (i.e. in combat).
If the formation only moves one location and attacks it 
may attack the same occupied location again, without an 
activation cost, or move to/ attack a different adjacent 
occupied location - again, without an activation cost. If 
moving/attacking adjacent locations the major activation 
can be thought of as 2 attacks.
When moving formations with a Major Activation 
players should move them one location at a time and 
give the other player the chance to announce any of their 
formations which now become sighted, and so are moved 
from their Hidden Movement Map behind their screen 
onto the main board.
9.2  MINOR ACTIVATION
This permits the formation to move no more than 
one location, and to end their movement in a location 
occupied by the enemy (i.e. in combat).
Unlike in Freeman’s Farm: 1777, combat does not occur in 
adjacent locations, but ONLY when units of different sides 
are in the same location. If a unit is in the same location as 
an enemy piece combat MUST occur.
9.3  TRANSFER REINFORCEMENTS
With either a major or a minor activation, instead of 
moving/fighting, formations may pay no activation cost 
and, transfer reinforcements.
An activated formation may give or receive 1 or 3 
cohesion points to or from an adjacent friendly formation.
To track this, from the reinforcement decks, find two 
linked numbers +3 and -3, or +1 and -1, and place them 
face-down below the corresponding formation areas. 

For example, +3 to the formation receiving 3 cohesion points, 
and -3 to the formation giving those points. 
These cards help players keep track of the real cohesion 
totals, and to hide them from the other player. All 
cohesion rules apply as normal. The moment a formation 
drops to 5 cohesion points or lower it must test. If a 
cohesion test is required according to the track and that 
formation has any face-down reinforcement cards a player 
must reveal those cards (and discard to the side of the 
board) and adjust the track to its correct total. 
Similarly, if a cohesion track doesn’t show there to be 
a test due, but there is when reinforcement cards are 
taken into account, the owning player is responsible for 
ensuring the modifiers are revealed (and discarded to the 
side of the board), and that the test takes place. At the 
end of the game all those discarded cards, and any still 
left unrevealed must cancel each other out when collected 
together. If a pair (+1/-1,or +3/-3) is revealed during play 
that pair can be returned to the Reinforcements draw 
deck.
Fog of war is represented in this game not only through the 
Hidden Movement Maps and the screens giving hidden 
movement, but also through the transfer of reinforcements. 
Players cannot always be certain of the strength of the enemy’s 
formations, and nor can he always be sure of the strength of 
your own formations.
9.4  BUILD A REDOUBT 
With either a major or a minor activation, instead of 
moving/fighting, formations may pay no activation cost 
and, build redoubts. 
Take a brown cube from the redoubt pool on the board, 
and place it at the location that formation occupies. (3 
cubes per location maximum.)
If they have more than one redoubt cube they keep 
spending them and setting more dice to the face they 
want, with the limit of 3. Defenders can do this between 
REINFORCEMENTS
-3
+3
REINFORCEMENTS
rounds if they have any redoubts left, but they may only 
set the face of dice about to be rolled, they may not 
change the face of any dice the attacker has already rolled 
and has decided to leave in place.
Redoubts, or prepared defensive positions, were a feature of 
the Chancellorsville battle, especially by the Confederates. 
Sometimes the best course of action for a formation is to 
prepare the ground for defensive action. In the game this 
activity is deemed not to adversely affect a formation’s 
cohesion - what it expends in energy it gains in sense of 
confidence in its position.
Redoubt cubes remain in place even if formations vacate 
the location. 
BEFORE an attack a formation may voluntarily remove 
any redoubt cubes in its location. (This does not use up 
an activation.)
If a formation already has 3 redoubts in its current 
location it may not build any more. However, in this case, 
when activated, a formation may do nothing, and pay NO 
activation cost.
A formation that has a major activation and moves or 
attacks may make a second attack to the same or an adjacent 
location without an activation cost. However, it may NOT 
attack once, then build a redoubt or transfer reinforcements. 
Building a redoubt, or transferring reinforcements (receiving 
or giving) takes an ENTIRE activation, whether major or 
minor. 
10.  TACTICS CARDS
The Tactics deck is used by both sides. These cards are 
‘purchased’ by using Momentum cubes from a player’s 
own pool of cubes. The cost is shown at the bottom of 
the card. Momentum cubes used in the purchase are 
returned to the central pool on the game board. When 
purchased, Tactics cards should be kept face-up. These 
cards are single use, unless their effect is stated on the 
card as ‘Ongoing’. 
Each turn, at the end of their turn, a player has the option 
to buy only ONE card from the face-up Tactics tableau. 
If a card is purchased, refresh the tableau by shifting all 
the remaining cards to the right (if possible), so the newly 
drawn card appears on the far left of the tableau. If no 
card is purchased at the end of a player’s turn, the card on 
the far right of the tableau is moved to the discard pile, 
the remaining cards are all shunted to the right, and a 
new card is drawn on the left of the tableau.

Any number of Tactics cards may be played when the 
cards allow it.
Even if purchased, Tactics cards may not be voluntarily 
removed from play (for example, in an attempt to prevent 
a Prisoners card from taking a card and putting it back 
into play).
At any time you can ‘cash in’ any 3 Tactics cards for 1 
Momentum cube.
I have read of battles being described by commanders as a series 
of windows of opportunity which pass before them. Knowing 
when to take advantage of these opportunities (as well as when to 
ignore them), how hard to try to exploit them, and being alert to 
the possibilities that might unfold as a direct result is something 
these Tactics cards attempt to represent. Each card comes at a 
cost, and different card synergies may present themselves over the 
course of each game. The way the tableau keeps being refreshed is 
an attempt to visually and spatially represent this notion of a 
shifting opportunity window. A card will be purchasable for three 
turns, at least one of which is yours, before it disappears into the 
discards. The Tactics deck also helps encourage replayability. 
Tactics draw deck, cards are 
placed face down.
Tactics Tableau: Tactics 1–3 and Discard 
areas, all cards are shown face up.
PLAY DURING 
PLAYER’S 
ACTIVATION PHASE
Activated unit may swap 
places with any adjacent 
friendly formation, but 
neither formation may do 
anything else this turn.
RELOCATE
Card Title
Card Event/Action
Tactics Card Sample
Price of card in 
momentum cubes
11.  MOMENTUM CUBES
The black cubes in the game represent momentum 
generated and used by both sides. A common 
Momentum cubes pool is located on the game board. 
Momentum cubes are earned by activating formations 
and are used for acquiring Tactics cards and combat 
re-rolls (3 Momentum cubes per re-roll). Players take 
or return Momentum cubes to the pool as these actions 
occur.
Momentum is a rather nebulous concept. Many soldiers 
and analysts have spoken of it - a sense that on a broader 
scale than that of individual soldiers and their direct units, 
a battle is swinging perhaps one way or the other. But what 
does it tangibly mean, and how can you quantify it? Well, 
game designers quantify intangible concepts all the time and 
give them values they can apply within the context of game 
systems. The generation of momentum, as a currency, that 
permits attacks to be sustained, or for other advantages to be 
sought - through the purchase of Tactics cards - is how this 
game represents this concept.
11.1  BONUS MOMENTUM CUBES
Matching 3 Momentum token icon sets of your own 
played activation cards (3 x 3s, 3 x 2s, 3 x1s) over 3 
consecutive turns gives a +2 Momentum cube bonus. 
This bonus can only be applied once per set.
12.  GAME SET UP
	» Decide who will be the Confederates, and who will be 
the Union.
	» Place a screen around each player’s Hidden Movement 
Map on the game board.
	» Place an appropriate colored marker on the start (14) 
of the cohesion track on each formation area.
	» Place appropriate colored markers on the READY box 
of any generals in the formation area.
	» Place the formation markers according to the starting 
locations indicated on the formation areas on the 
game board. Formations without options are placed 
on the game board. Formations with optional starting 
locations are NOT placed on the game board, they are 
placed on a player’s Hidden Movement Map, behind 
their screen.

UNIT
STARTING LOCATION
10, 12, or 22 on Hidden Movement Map
10, 12, or 22 on Hidden Movement Map
13 on Board
14 on Board
15 on Board
6 on Board
5 on Board
4 on Board
1 on Board
	» Shuffle the Tactics cards, and place the top three 
cards face-up on the game board on the tableau. The 
remaining cards should be placed face-down on the 
draw deck space on the game board.
	» Place the Momentum cubes in a pool on the game 
board for use by both players. Players begin the game 
without any Momentum cubes.
	» Place all the redoubt cubes in a pool on the game 
	» Shuffle each activation deck and deal 6 to each 
corresponding player. Each player chooses 3 for their 
hand, returns the other 3, then reshuffles the draw 
deck, placing it on its space on the game board.
	» Place the reinforcements decks on their respective 
places on the game board. They don’t need to be 
shuffled - players will go into them and look for the 
cards they need, but they should be face-down. It will 
speed up play if +3s are next to -3s, and +1s next to 
-1s.
Place the unit markers BEFORE you draw activation 
cards.
13.  SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The Union player takes the first turn in a round. Then 
the Confederate player takes their turn in a round. Play 
continues until all Activation cards have been played, 
ending the game.
There may be up to 15 rounds in the game. Each round 
consists of one turn for each player.
Each player’s turn has the same phases:
1.	 Play Activation card from one of the three in your 
hand and gain Momentum cubes for the card played.
2.	 Determine whether you are playing the major, minor, 
or one of the free actions of transfer reinforcements 
or build redoubt.
3.	 Pay Activation cost by reducing cohesion for the 
activated formation.
4.	 If, as a result of movement, combat occurs, perform 
combat.
5.	 After all actions have been performed, optionally 
purchase one Tactics card, and refresh the tableau 
with a new card.
6.	 Draw a new Activation card.
13.1  PLAY ACTIVATION CARD
From your hand of three Activation Cards choose and 
play one card, which activates formations. 
13.2  MOMENTUM CUBES
Each Activation card says which formations are activated, 
and has Momentum icons on it (1-3).
Play the Activation card (discard it, face-up into 
the discard pile) and receive the relevant number of 
Momentum cubes into your pool. Activation cards played 
for destroyed formations still provide Momentum cubes.
13.3  MOMENTUM CUBES BONUS
In addition, if the activation card just played matches the 
same number of Momentum icons as the previous two 
consecutive activation cards played by the same player, 
then the player receives +2 cubes this turn.
For example, if an activation card with 2 Momentum icons is 
played, and the two previous, consecutive activation cards also 
have 2 icons on them, the player will receive 2 momentum 
cubes for the card, and 2 more for the bonus. The previous 
cards must be consecutive to qualify for this bonus.

You only see the benefit of the extra momentum once 
for the same set of 3 icons. Activation cards played for 
formations that are broken/destroyed still receive a 
Momentum cube bonus, if applicable.
13.4  HOW TO USE GENERAL SPECIAL 
ABILITIES
COUNTERMAND ORDER WITH GENERAL 
(LEE & HOOKER)
Instead of activating the chosen formations for that 
turn, a player may countermand that order, and use 
their respective General ability instead. This gives 
them 3 Momentum cubes instead of what was on the 
Activation card (not as well as), and replaces all the listed 
activations with one major activation anywhere, and one 
minor activation anywhere (although never to the same 
formation). In addition, the formation with the major 
activation may receive a +2 dice modifier as an intensive 
artillery barrage). This modifier only applies to one 
attack, but if there are rerolls in this attack the player 
retains the +2 dice.
The replaced activation card is still discarded. Players 
receive Momentum tokens from their commander card 
- and a Momentum tokens bonus if it is completing a set 
of 2 preceding Activation cards showing 3 Momentum 
icons. But they do not begin or participate in a new set of 
Momentum icons. They only ever complete a set.
These abilities can only be used once (unless Tactics cards 
cause exceptions).
Countermanding with Lee and Hooker allows you to 
substitute the named formations on an activation card 
with any other formations for one major, and one minor 
activation, plus a +2 die roll bonus in combat for artillery. 
GENERAL JACKSON
General Jackson gives the Confederate player two linked 
abilities, which must be played in a specific sequence.
The first ability is to move AP Hill up to 3 locations 
at ANY TIME in a player’s turn (this ability use is in 
addition to the Confederate Activation card played for 
this turn), but not into combat, and not when it entails 
AP Hill moving again in the same turn through an 
activation. This is not an activation and has no cost. 
When this is done the marker is moved down to the next 
space in the sequence on the board, and the next ability is 
unlocked.
After this has been used (but NOT in the same turn) AP 
Hill gets a major activation (at no additional cost) instead 
of a minor activation indicated on an activation card (or 
another activation card countermanded by General Lee).
Once both abilities have been used the ability is 
exhausted.
Jackson’s first ability is for AP Hill to move up to three 
locations in addition to the Confederate Activation card play, 
as long as it is not AP Hill. The first ability use, does not cost 
AP Hill a cohesion point. His second ability requires an AP 
Hill Major or Minor Activation card play.
13.5  PAY ACTIVATION COST
Unless involved in transferring reinforcements, or 
building a redoubt (or in a location that already has 3 
redoubts), a formation must pay an activation cost of 1 
cohesion point.
Jackson’s 1st Special Ability.
Jackson’s 2nd Special Ability.

13.6  PLAY TACTICS CARDS
You can play any number of Tactics cards you have 
previously purchased (with Momentum cubes). In 
the first turn you won’t have any Tactics cards, or any 
Momentum cubes. 
Some of these cards must be played before rolling any 
dice, others can be played at other times. Check each card 
for details.
Tactic cards may overrule game rules.
13.7  HOW TO HAVE COMBAT
ROLL THE COMBAT DICE
Each activated attacking formation rolls a different 
number of dice, shown at the bottom of its formation. 
This roll may be modified as given below. Combat results 
take effect on the attacking or defending formation.
Combat occurs when the activated formation moves into a 
location occupied by opposing formation(s). The activated 
formation is the formation rolling dice for combat. The 
defender does not roll combat dice. 
USING REDOUBTS IN COMBAT
Before the attacker rolls, the defender may “use-up” 1–3 
of their redoubt cubes to set the face of one of the die 
as they choose. This face is set for the remainder of the 
attacker’s turn.
The attacker must always allow the defender time to 
decide if they will spend any redoubt cubes or not.
TERRAIN MODIFIERS
	» Attacking along double-headed green arrows = +2 
dice
When attacking, each player always uses the PLAYER 
combat results table.
	» Double 1s: Attacker loses 1 Cohesion
	» Double 2s: Attacker loses 1 Cohesion
	» 3: gain 1 Momentum cube
	» Double 4s: Defender loses 1 Cohesion
	» Double 5s: Defender loses 1 Cohesion
	» Double 6s: Defender loses 2 Cohesion + must retreat 
from current location
1 Momentum cube is awarded for each 3 rolled. 
For example, a double 3 gives 2 Momentum cubes.
Any Momentum gained is only gained AFTER the 
players have finished rolling all dice in the current attack 
including re-rolls.
If the defender is not forced to retreat, the attacker must 
retreat back to the location they passed through or came 
from to begin the attack. (They just retreat one location 
back, in the case of units that moved 2 locations to launch 
their attack.)
A formation with 0 cohesion points, or that fails a 
cohesion test is considered destroyed.
If the defender is destroyed the attacker MUST occupy 
the location attacked.
Combat results are inflicted on ALL defender formations 
in a location. If the defender has 2 formations in a 
location and suffers losses to cohesion they are incurred 
by both formations. 
For example, if an attacker rolls a double 5 this inflicts 1 
cohesion loss but to EACH formation. In the event of a 
double 6, both formations suffer a loss of 2 cohesion, and both 
must retreat, although they may retreat to separate admissible 
locations.

The game punishes players for trying to ‘throw men at the 
problem’ (I’m looking at you, Burnisde, and the first battle 
of Fredericksburg). If you have too many men on top of each 
other they can’t deploy properly and they make excellent 
targets for artillery. Having two formations in the same 
location is a terrible strategy. You must maneuver.
DEFENDER RETREATS
Formations forced to retreat must move out of their 
location, and away from the location where the attacking 
formation came from.
Formations may never retreat into a location occupied by 
the enemy.
If formations have more than one possible target they will 
go to the location with the fewest friendly formations.
Two defenders in a location forced to retreat may retreat 
to two different locations.
CONFEDERATE FORMATION RETREATS
	» Retreating Confederate formations ALWAYS try to 
retreat closer to location 22 (in terms of the number of 
locations, not the physical distance).
	» If they have just been forced out of location 22 they 
will first try to move to location 21 or 23. If neither 
of those are free, they will move to 12 - if there is no 
enemy there.
UNION FORMATION RETREATS
	» Retreating Union formations ALWAYS try to retreat 
away from location 22 (in terms of the number of 
locations, not the physical distance).
	» If there is a choice they will ALWAYS try to retreat to 
a location farther north and over the river, if possible.
The maximum number of friendly formations on the 
same location is two. If a retreating formation cannot 
retreat it is destroyed. If two formations are forced to 
retreat and only one can retreat, the one with the highest 
Cohesion value is saved.
The maximum number of friendly formations on the same 
location is two. The maximum number of formations that 
can attack a location is one.
A retreat must always be in the spirit of a retreat, and 
MUST NOT be used in such a way that the retreat move 
is clearly being used as an advance. 
RE-ROLL
Player can choose to re-roll by:
	» Cash in 3 Momentum cubes to re-roll any or all dice 
again
	» Reduce the active formation’s cohesion by 1 to re-roll 
any or all dice again.
APPLY COMBAT RESULTS
When all the rolling has ceased for the round apply the 
results, as outlined above.
14.  PURCHASE TACTICS CARD
Players can choose to purchase one face-up Tactics card, 
if they can afford it.
Players can never examine this deck to see what cards are 
coming.
15.  DRAW NEW ACTIVATION CARD
Players draw the top card of their Activation deck (if 
there are any left in the draw deck) and bring it into 
their hand, ready to make a decision next turn on which 
formation to activate.
Play then switches to the other player.
When both players have expended all the Activation 
cards in the draw deck and their hand the game ends (if it 
hasn’t ended already). 
16.  FORMATION COHESION TEST
The cohesion marker tracks a formation’s cohesion as the 
formation is activated and attacked throughout the game. 
When the cohesion marker is reduced (from activation, 
combat, etc.) to the number 5 or lower, a cohesion test 
must be performed for that formation at the instant it 
occurs.
A cohesion test is done by rolling a six sided die and 
comparing the result to the location of the marker on 
the cohesion track of the formation card. If the die roll 
is higher than the marker location, then the formation 
has failed the test and the formation is then “broken.” If 
the die roll is equal or less than the marker location, the 
formation has passed the cohesion test.
A cohesion test is not taken if the Cohesion marker 
moves back ‘up’ the scale, from a 3, to a 4, for example.
A passed cohesion test means play continues, it doesn’t 
halt an attacker’s attack to take a Cohesion Test that’s 
passed. A broken formation marker is removed from the 

A failed cohesion test results in the formation becoming 
destroyed, unless prevented by a Tactics card. A failed 
cohesion test cannot use Momentum cubes or a cohesion 
reduction to re-roll.
17.  HOW TO WIN
The Union player must capture 2 out of the 3 objectives 
on the board by the end of the game. An objective is 
captured if a Union formation was the last to occupy it, 
the formation does not have to remain in the location 
(mark with a blue cube to show Union control). 
If the Union player breaks 3 or more Confederate 
formations they immediately win the game.
The Confederate player wins if the Union player does not win.
The Confederate player also wins the game immediately 
if they break 3 or more Union formations.
18.  CLARIFICATIONS
18.1  SIMULTANEOUS DESTRUCTION
If an attacking and defending formation are both 
destroyed at the same time in the same turn the defender 
is adjudged to have been destroyed first.
If both players must take a Cohesion Test in the same 
turn, the defender takes the test first.
18.2  RUNNING OUT OF COMPONENTS
There may be times where you wish to roll more 
dice, acquire more Momentum cubes, acquire more 
redoubt cubes, or more reinforcement cards. The boxed 
components are: 9 dice, 25 Momentum cubes, 12 redoubt 
cubes, 12 reinforcements for each side. These totals 
should never be exceeded, and play is bound by these 
available components.
Howard’s current cohesion is at 
8. Confederate attacks against 
Howard cause 4 cohesion losses. 
Moving his cohesion from 8 to 4. 
He now must perform a cohesion 
test by rolling one die and compare 
it to his current cohesion because 
his cohesion has fallen below 6. 
If the roll is 5 or 6 he fails his 
cohesion test and is destroyed and 
removed from the board. A roll 
of 4 or under Howard passes his 
cohesion test and is allowed to stay.
18.3  TACTICS CARDS
PLAY ANYTIME
Play Anytime cards can be played on any player’s turn at 
any time. (When sequence matters it’s the first person 
to speak and make clear their intentions that gets to act 
first.)
(3) IMMACULATE TIMING
This card can be used for only one attack.
(12) CONFIDENCE
The +1 Cohesion to the attacker is awarded if the 
defender suffers a reduction of 2 Cohesion as a result 
of the same attack, or, in the instance where the same 
attacker attacks again (with a major activation) the 
damage inflicted may be combined. The +1 Cohesion is 
not awarded to a formation if it only inflicts 1 Cohesion 
loss on the enemy, regardless of how many other losses 
the defender has incurred in the same turn.
(25) BACK IN THE SADDLE
The card takes immediate effect meaning that the 
expended general (Hooker or Lee) is ready to be used 
again. But this doesn’t mean that the commander is 
activated at that moment. He is available for use as per 
the same player choice - to countermand an activation.
(35) NIGHT MARCH
This card cannot be used to take a formation into an 
attack. However, it could be combined with an Activation 
card, or a General countermanding an Activation card, to 
bring the same formation into combat in the same turn.
(36) ARTILLERY SMOKE SCREEN
As above.
19.  SOLITAIRE RULES
19.1  TO WIN
As with the two player game, the Union player must 
destroy 3 Confederate formations for an automatic win.
But in addition, in the solo version of the game, the 
Union player must hold all 3 objectives by the end of 
the game. If 3 Confederate formations have not been 
destroyed, and all 3 objectives are not held by the time the 
game ends the Union player has lost.
The Confederate player must destroy 3 Union formations 
for an automatic win. The BOT must hold just 2 

objectives (like the player in the two player game) to win. 
If the Confederate player stops the Union BOT from 
winning, the player wins.
If the player ever has 3 of their own formations destroyed 
they automatically lose.
19.2  SETTING UP
	» Decide if you will play as the Confederates, or the 
Union. The side you don’t play as is ‘The BOT’.
	» Neither the screen nor the Hidden Movement Map 
are used in the solo version of the game.
	» Place an appropriate colored marker on the start (14) 
of the cohesion track on each formation area.
	» Place appropriate colored markers on the READY box 
of any generals your side has in the formation area. 
(Do not place any markers for the BOT.)
	» Place the formation markers according to the starting 
locations indicated on the formation areas on the 
game board. Formations without options are placed 
on the game board. Player formations with optional 
starting locations ARE ALSO placed on the board. 
BOT formations with optional starting locations are 
NOT placed on the board, or the Hidden Movement 
Map - they are placed on the 0 space of the Hidden 
Movement Track on the game board.
	» Remove all NOT FOR SOLO PLAY cards from 
the Tactics deck. Shuffle the Tactics cards, and place 
the top three cards face-up on the game board on the 
tableau. The remaining cards should be placed face-
down on the draw deck space on the game board.
	» Place the Momentum cubes in a pool on the game 
board for just your own use. You begin the game 
without any Momentum cubes.
	» Place all the redoubt cubes in a pool on the game 
	» Shuffle your activation deck and deal 6 to you. 
Chooses 3 for your hand, return the other 3, then 
reshuffle the draw deck, placing it on its space on the 
	» Shuffle the BOT activation cards and place them face-
down on the game board.
	» The reinforcement decks are not used in the solo 
version of the game.
Note: place the unit markers BEFORE you draw activation 
cards.
19.3  DIFFICULTY SETTINGS
In the solo version of the game there are 3 different 
difficulty settings.
	» Standard: No changes.
	» Hard: Remove the top card of the Activation deck of 
the side you are playing as. Keep it face-down and do 
not look at it for the duration of the game. 
	» Hardest: Remove the top two cards of the Activation 
deck of the side you are playing as.
In the Hard and Hardest modes the BOT will have 1, 
and 2 additional turns respectively at the end of the game.
19.4  FIRST TURN
When playing the solo version of the game, the player 
ALWAYS takes the first turn, even if playing as the 
Confederates.
19.5  SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The sequence of play for the player is the same as in the 
two player version.
For the BOT the sequence is:
	» Turn over the top card of the BOT activation draw 
deck, read it, and apply the directions.
19.6  IMPORTANT RULE CHANGES IN 
SOLO GAME
The BOT NEVER pays an activation cost for its 
formations.
The BOT NEVER receives any Momentum cubes.
The BOT General(s) abilities NEVER feature in the 
The Tactics deck is NEVER cycled through in the BOT’s 
turn.
19.7  READING THE BOT ACTIVATION 
CARDS
SEQUENCE
	» Read the cards in sequence from top to bottom.
	» If no conditions apply - which can happen if a 
formation is on the Hidden Movement Track (HMT) 
but not sufficiently along to trigger an attack - the 
formation does nothing.

The Hidden Movement Track (HMT) is only used in the 
solitaire version of the game by the BOT player.
	» If the formation cannot be activated because it is 
destroyed ignore that part of the card. It’s possible that 
a card might be entirely ignored if all formations have 
been destroyed.
+1/2 COHESION TO WEAKEST FORMATION
Any Cohesion increased detailed on the BOT card goes 
to whichever formation has the lowest Cohesion total. If 
there is a tie between two or more formations use a D6 to 
resolve it.
ATTACK IF ADJACENT
	» If the BOT is adjacent to more than one enemy 
formation it will attack a formation in an objective.
	» If the BOT is adjacent to more than one enemy 
formation in an objective it will attack the one with 
the fewest redoubts.
	» If the BOT has no enemy formations in objectives 
adjacent, but has more than one possible target it will 
attack the one with the fewest redoubts. If the BOT 
cannot decide, roll a D6. 
	» The Confederate BOT NEVER attacks over the river.
ANDERSON 
• Otherwise: +2 HMT
 » If HMT 2: attack 22/10/9/8/18 (2 dice)
 » If HMT 3+: attack 21/18 (2 dice)
EARLY 
MCLAWS 
• Otherwise: +1 HMT 
 » If HMT 2: attack 22/10/9/8/18 (2 dice)
 » If HMT 3+: attack 21/18 (3 dice)
+1 COHESION TO WEAKEST FORMATION
BOT Activation Card Sample
Add +1 cohesion 
to the formation 
listed below with the 
lowest cohesion.
Major Activation
HIDDEN MOVEMENT TRACK (HMT)
	» If instructed to, move the relevant formation onto, or 
along the HMT.
	» If the formation is at a space on the HMT that 
triggers an attack move, as listed on the BOT 
activation card, the formation will try to attack 
any player formations in the first location listed. If 
no player formations are present, the BOT moves 
through the list of locations until it finds a formation 
to attack.
	» A formation attacking off the HMT has no combat 
modifiers for green or red arrowheads, but is affected 
by redoubts.
	» If no player formations are in any of the listed 
locations the BOT occupies the last listed location, 
unless there is a friendly formation in that location, in 
which case it occupies the location listed earlier. If 
there is a friendly formation in all listed locations, the 
BOT formation occupies the first listed location.
REYNOLDS
If south of the river, attack if adjacent to enemy… 
If not south of the river, and not adjacent to an 
enemy formation, move Reynolds to the HMT. 
It is possible for Reynolds to move between 
the board and the HMT in this way. (Other 
formations may also move between the board and 
the HMT.)

SLOCUM AND HOWARD
Otherwise, if in objective, and enemy adjacent, build 
redoubt. If Slocum or Howard is in an objective 
location but an enemy formation is not adjacent, 
they do not build a redoubt, but attack towards 
the nearest (other objective) instead.
	» If the BOT is successful in causing a formation to 
retreat in an attack off the HMT it moves into the 
attacked location, and the player must retreat.
	» If the BOT is unsuccessful in causing a formation to 
retreat in an attack off the HMT it occupies any free 
adjacent location. If there is more than one possibility, 
it will move to the location that would give it the best 
combat modifier in any future attack (where there are 
2 green arrows into the target location). If there is still 
more than one option use a D6 to help it decide. In the 
rare instance that all adjacent locations are occupied 
by enemy formations, the BOT formation moves into 
the location as close as it can to the attacked location. 
Again, it will choose the location that would give it the 
best combat modifier in any future attack. I If there is 
still more than one option use a D6 to help it decide. 
REDOUBT
If instructed to build a redoubt but there are three 
already in that location the formation does nothing, and 
pays no Activation cost.
ATTACK OBJECTIVE
The BOT formation moves towards/attacks the nearest 
objective.
In this instance, the BOT formation will always move 2 
locations, if it can.
If there is more than one possible target it will attack 
towards the one with the fewest friendly formations.
If there is a choice roll a D6.
HELPING THE BOT DECIDE
If an instance occurs when the BOT cannot decide 
between possible targets, or possible retreat locations, use 
a D6. Designate the possible options as choice, 1 and 2, 
or also 3 and 4, as appropriate.
With 2 options: 1-3=option 1, 4-6=option 2.
With 3 options: 1-2=option 1, 3-4=option 2, 5-6=option 
3.
With 4 options: 1-4=options 1-4, 5-6=roll again.
19.8  ROLL THE COMBAT DICE
The BOT rolls a set number of dice determined by the 
activation card, and modified by the arrowheads of the 
locations they are attacking from. Combat results take 
effect on the attacking or defending formation.
BOT TERRAIN MODIFIERS
	» BOT attacking along double-headed green arrows = 
+1 die
Note: regardless of modifiers from arrowheads and redoubts, 
a BOT formation will ALWAYS attack with the minimum 
of 1 die.
When attacking, the BOT always uses the BOT combat 
results table, apply the results for each die.
	» 1: Attacker loses 2 Cohesion
	» 2: Attacker loses 1 Cohesion
	» 3: Defender loses 1 Cohesion
	» 4: Defender loses 2 Cohesion
	» 5: Defender loses 2 Cohesion
	» 6: Defender loses 3 Cohesion + must retreat from 
current location

19.9  REDOUBTS WITH THE BOT
When the BOT attacks a player formation that has 
one or more redoubt in its location it rolls one fewer die 
than detailed on the card for every redoubt the player 
has. As in the two player game, redoubts that are used 
are consumed, and returned to the general pool. But the 
BOT will ALWAYS attack with at least 1 die.
Redoubts are only consumed after red arrow modifiers.
If the player has 3 redoubts on a location, and the BOT 
has 3 attack dice, 2 redoubts will be consumed, so the 
BOT has 1 die with which to attack. The location retains 
1 redoubt which can be used in a subsequent turn. If the 
player has 3 redoubts and the BOT is attacking with 3 
dice through a single red arrow, 1 die will be removed 
because of the red arrow, and 1 redoubt will remove 1 
other die, but the BOT will still attack with 1 die, and 2 
redoubts will remain in place.
When the player attacks a BOT formation that has one 
or more redoubt in its location the face of a die is set to 1 
for each redoubt. As in the two player game, these dice 
faces are set for the duration of the attack. If the player 
has a major activation they may attack again, with new 
dice.
BOT RETREATS
Formations retreat in the same way as in the two player 
Additionally, if, for the BOT, there is still more than one 
possible target location, use a D6 to help the BOT decide.
20.  TWO PLAYER EXAMPLE OF PLAY
I’m playing as the Union, and Grant is playing as the 
Confederates. In the two player version, the Union player 
always goes first.
I set up the game.
Unknown to Grant, I place Couch in 7, and both Howard 
and Meade in 2. These three formations are all behind 
my screen.
I don’t know where Grant has placed Anderson and 
McLaws, but they are either in 10, 12, or 22.
I draw 6 activation cards, and return 3.
Grant does the same, but agonizes over the decision. The 
level of concentration is evidently painful in some way. I 
say nothing. It would just slow him down.
My selected activation cards are: SICKLES/Meade; 
COUCH/Meade; MEADE/Couch/Sickles.
I play the activation card: MEADE/Couch/Sickles, and 
receive 2 Momentum cubes from the pool on the game 
board. I decide to use Couch’s minor activation first and 
move him to location 4, where Sickles is. This reduces 
Couch’s cohesion by 1.
Couch is now adjacent to the enemy so I transfer him 
from the Hidden Movement Map the main game board.
I use Sickles’ minor activation next and move him away 
from 4. I decide to move him to location 3, but don’t put 
him on the game board yet. Since he is no longer adjacent 
to the enemy I move him to the Hidden Movement Map. 
For all Grant knows Sickles could be in location 7. 
Next I use Meade’s major activation to move 2 locations. 
I reduce Meade’s cohesion by 1 before I forget. First he 
moves to location 9. But since this is hashed and farthest 
along the line of march he is now visible (thanks to JEB 
Stuart’s cavalry screen), so I move him from the Hidden 
Movement Map onto the main game board. Grant 
then announces that, in fact, he has placed McLaws in 
location 10 -sly fox that he is - and so he moves McLaws 
from his Hidden Movement Map onto the game board 
too. Meade still has one more move left in his major 
activation. I could attack McLaws, or head to my original 
(although unstated) intention of the objective at 18 
(Chancellorsville Junction). I could also move to 8. While 
I’m contemplating this I remove Slocum from the game 
board to the Hidden Movement Map. JEB’s cavalry are 
no longer in contact with him. Only the lead formation(s) 
on the hashed track are visible to the Confederates. 
Although Grant still knows where Slocum is I decide 
- sly fox that I am - I’d like to keep him guessing. 
Indeed, there is a ripple across his forehead suggestive of 
intelligence.
I decide to take on McLaws with Meade, and so move to 
location 10, where combat now occurs.
In Meade’s formation area it tells me he has 5 dice. Since 
I am attacking from location 9 there is a black arrowhead, 
which gives me no modifiers to this roll.
I roll 6, 6, 6, 1, 2.
I decide to re-roll, and don’t have enough Momentum 
cubes to pay for it (I only have 2), so reduce Meade’s 
cohesion by another 1.
I keep the 6, 6, 6, and re-roll the 1 and 2, with which I 
get a 6 and a 1. Grant scoffs at my good fortune. This is 
unworthy of Grant, who should admire my sense of dash 
and elan in an instance such as this.
The two pairs of 6s cause a loss of 4 cohesion for McLaws, 
and force him to retreat.
McLaws tries to retreat to 22 per the retreat rules. There’s 
no impediments, so move there without complication. 
McLaws is still adjacent to Meade, so he remains on the 

game board. In addition Grant now announces that he 
had placed Anderson in location 22 at the beginning 
of the game, so he is now also visible to Meade, and so 
moves from the Hidden Movement Map onto the game 
(If there were already 2 formations in location 22, then 
McLaws would not have been able to move there. He 
would have to move to another adjacent location - one 
without any enemy formations. Although away from 
location 22, he would, in that instance, have been able to 
move to location 21. Formations are only destroyed in 
retreats as a last resort.) 
Grant elects to complain about the dice I’m using.
On the Tactics card tableau is a card I like the look of in 
slot #1. REORGANIZE. It costs 2 Momentum cubes. I 
decide it’s worth it, and return my 2 cubes to the pool on 
the board, in exchange for the card.
I take the top card from the top of its draw deck, turn it 
face-up and put it in slot #1. No cards are removed to the 
discards deck because a card was purchased this turn.
I receive a new card from the top of my activation deck.
My turn is over.
Grant looks at his activation cards and can’t decide which 
to play...
21.  SOLO PLAYER EXAMPLE OF PLAY
I’m playing as the Confederates. In the solo player version 
the player always goes first.
I set up the game.
I place Early, AP Hill, and Colston in the locations they 
must go. I decide to place Anderson in location 10, and 
McLaws in location 22.
I draw 6 cards from the top of my activation deck.
I select 3, and return the other 3 to the deck, and 
reshuffle it.
My selected activation cards are: MCLAWS/Anderson; 
EARLY/AP Hill; MCLAWS/Anderson
I play the activation card: EARLY/AP Hill, and receive 2 
Momentum cubes from the pool on the game board.
Early has a major activation. He builds a redoubt where 
he is, and pays no activation cost because of it. I take a 
brown redoubt cube from the pool on the game board.
AP Hill has a minor activation, but also builds a redoubt 
where he is, and pays no cost.
I see nothing I want on the Tactics tableau, so I buy 
nothing. The card in slot #3 is moved to the discards, the 
other two cards are moved a slot to the right, and a new 
card is moved from the top of the Tactics draw deck to 
the slot #1.
I draw a new card from the top of my activation draw 
deck.
My turn is over.
The BOT has its turn.
I turn over the top of its activation deck.
[BOT Card 2]
This awards +1 cohesion to the weakest formation. 
But all formations are at their maximum levels, so the 
instruction is ignored.
Meade is not on the board, he is on the Hidden 
Movement Track (HMT), so he is not adjacent to the 
enemy (me), and so cannot attack.
So he is moved +2 up the HMT.
He is at 2 on the HMT, so the next condition triggers.
There is no one to attack in location 12, so he looks to the 
next location. McLaws is in 22 so Meade attacks there, 
with 3 dice.
He rolls 1, 3, and 6. Looking at the results table on the 
game board this gives us:
	» 1: Attacker loses 2 Cohesion
	» 3: Defender loses 1 Cohesion
	» 6: Defender loses 3 Cohesion + must retreat from 
current location
This reduces Meade’s cohesion by 2, and McLaws’ 
cohesion by 4.
In addition, McLaws must retreat.
Since Meade has come off the HMT we don’t know for 
sure where has come from. Locations 21, 12, and 23 are 
all a possibility.
As a Confederate retreat, I must first try to retreat to 21 
or 23, when being forced out of 22.
I choose to retreat to 21. I don’t like that being in 23 
could box me in.
Meade occupies location 22, and takes control of the 
objective.
(If Meade had not caused a retreat he would have been 
placed at one of the three possible attack locations (21, 
12, 23). There is no future attack advantage to it being in 
any of those locations so a D6 would have been used to 
decide its placement.)
Sickles attacks because he is adjacent to Early, with 2 
dice. However, Early is across the river, so Sickles has one 
die removed. Early also has a redoubt, but since Sickles’ 

dice total can’t be lower than 1, the redoubt remains in 
place, and Sickles’ attack is reduced to 1 die.
Sickles rolls a 4. This inflicts a loss of 2 cohesion on Early.
Sedgwick is also adjacent, and so he attacks Hill with 3 
dice.
Hill is also across the river, and has a redoubt, so 
Sedgwick’s dice are also reduced to 1. In this case the 
redoubt is used, so it is returned to the pool on the game 
Sedgwick rolls a 3. This inflicts a loss of 1 cohesion to AP Hill.
The activation card is placed in the discard part of the 
This is the end of the BOT’s turn.
The BOT is faster than Grant.
Note: none of the BOT formations paid an activation cost. 
22.  HISTORICAL SUMMARY AND 
DESIGNER NOTES
COMBAT IN BATTLE FORMATIONS GAMES
It has long bothered me that in many years of playing 
wargames - of both the miniatures and board game 
varieties - the actual combat resolution has so often 
proved to be the least fun part. Poring over Combat 
Result Tables, calculating odds, adding modifiers, 
subtracting others, staring at some dice to discern their 
meaning, checking the maths, and then figuring out the 
result, before remembering some forgotten modifiers 
and rechecking results is how it can often go. I’ve even 
found myself avoiding combat in some game systems 
because the calculations were unappealing. But, instead 
of this often messy and poorly paced moment, it felt like 
combat resolution ought to be the apex of a wargame - a 
dramatic, tightly orchestrated moment that could be 
representational of the historical elements - as well as fun.
We know dice rolling can be fun. Games like Yahtzee 
and King of Tokyo have shown this. With this thought in 
mind, reducing the number of modifiers, and reducing 
the cognitive distance between a roll and its meaning felt 
like steps in the right direction. I felt that you should roll 
the dice and know as soon as possible what they meant or 
that moment of drama was being dissipated. A lifetime 
of not only playing and making games but of also writing 
stories have had a bearing on this sense of the critical 
role of pacing. This critical moment in gameplay needed 
to be theatrical in construction and work like a good 
punchline, not like a potentially good punchline once 
you’d cross checked references.
Yet the moment of climax in combat between many 
hundreds of troops is often not just one moment on 
which everything is staked. It is also an ebb and flow 
lasting many minutes. There is tension in the build up 
to the apex of a drama. Even better if the player has the 
agency to determine the extent of this build up. That 
way they’re complicit in the construction of the drama 
they’re partaking in. This conceptualizing is really the 
heart of what games writing, or narrative designing, is 
really about. So, making re-rolling central to the combat 
results moment was a way to capture some of this 
thinking. By offering re-rolling I could neatly represent 
the tactical choice commanders made between pushing 
an attack, or relenting. Pushing an attack would always 
incur losses, perhaps pushing a unit closer to implosion, 
but might prove to be the best call. Throughout it all the 
player would be at the center of this drama with difficult 
choices. 
So, although there are many dice in a battle formations 
game, it’s not just a matter of rolling and seeing if you’re 
lucky or not. It’s all a question of how you respond to 
the rolls. Do you use your Momentum cubes to re-roll, 
or save them for the Tactics cards? Do you reduce your 
Cohesion levels to re-roll, or accept the lost opportunity 
and cut your losses, hoping to gain advantage in a later 
attack? Do you have your eye on the Tactics tableau and 
how to maximize your situation in upcoming turns?
The point is, the design intention behind the combat 
resolution was to try to reclaim the combat resolution 
moment as a moment of drama. I was searching for a way 
for it to be experientially appealing - more Give me the 
dice I want to roll!, rather than I hate figuring out the odds 
and modifiers so let me take a deep breath first while I 
think about it and you get bored. I wanted to attempt to 
conceive of combat resolution as a gameplay moment that 
could reflect something of historical truth at the same 
time as it could be fun.
CHANCELLORSVILLE
In attempting to wargame the battle of Chancellorsville - 
or, as it could more accurately be considered - a series of 
interlinking battles at the climax of the Chancellorsville 
campaign - the fog of war seems unquestionably cititcal. 
As Clausewitz termed it, this wasn’t just the obscuring 
of what you could see. Rather, it was more profoundly, 
the obscuring of what you could know - not just about 
dispositions, but also about how troops in combat would 
definitively perform. Of course, Hooker and Lee couldn’t 
clearly see what they were each up to at every stage of 
the campaign. Without representing the fog of war a 
wargame on Chancellorsville seems to me as if it’s missing 

the real essence of what’s thrilling about this campaign 
for players. The bluff and counter-bluff as the armies 
sought positional advantage, Hooker’s daring flank march 
Lee couldn’t immediately detect, Lee’s daring response 
to split his army Hooker likely didn’t expect, and then 
one of the most renowned flank attacks in the annals of 
military history are the real stuff of this campaign. 
The attempts to represent the fog of war in this game are 
modest. After all, playability and accessibility are critical 
to this series and the intended audience. Firstly, the use 
of screens for hidden movement is nothing new. We have 
seen it commercially since at least the 1980s with GDW’s 
double blind series. But this approach has so largely been 
discredited by lack of commercially broad application 
that it may, indeed, be new to many players. Considerable 
thought - and trial and error - has gone into the design of 
the board so that Hidden Movement Maps and screens 
are sufficiently functional to do their job, but not too 
disruptive to the social experience of playing a board 
game that players feel disconnected from each other and 
trapped in cardboard isolation zones. Although many - 
indeed most - units in this game begin on the board and 
exposed to view - the effect of having 2 Confederate and 
3 Union units off the board is, I suggest, sufficient for 
players to feel the thrill of uncertainty about dispositions 
and likely related strategies, and for them to attain the 
sense that they have a surprise or two to unleash on the 
other player, whilst accompanied by a sense that they 
have reasons of their own to be wary of enemy plans.
The second main way fog of war is represented here is 
through the reinforcements deck. Use of this deck is a 
simple way of masking a formation’s precise cohesion 
total. Armies, after all, don’t always have accurate 
information about the strength of their enemy army’s 
constituent parts.
The uncertainty of the draw of Tactics cards, the 
uncertainty of their purchase, and the uncertainty of the 
timing of their being played at all are further ways the 
system represents fog of war.
In the solitaire version of the game the hidden movement 
track also ensures that the solo player cannot be certain 
where the unseen enemy units are nor where they might 
appear giving them a further fog of war experience.
When I told Mike I planned to tackle Chancellorsville 
next after Freeman’s Farm, he, entirely reasonably, asked 
me how I planned to tackle Jackson’s flank march. I told 
him, entirely honestly, that I didn’t know yet, but I was 
confident I’d figure that out when I got to thinking about 
it. I had a strong feeling that I’d just know how to do it 
when I focused my mind on it properly. The result was 
a game more different from Freeman’s Farm than we 
had perhaps all envisaged. But one I think attempts to 
appropriately absorb the history that informs it, and one I 
think we are all delighted with.
Where is Rodes? Brigadier General Robert Emmet Rodes 
was present at Chancellorsville, with D.H. Hill’s division 
(D.H. Hill had fallen foul of Robert E. Lee and was in South 
Carolina recruiting troops at the time of the battle). In this 
game his presence is represented by the increased effectiveness 
of A.P. Hill’s division - uniquely 6 dice for combat as a 
default, instead of the usual 5. His otherwise absence is a 
design choice, because I wanted a 7-5 balance in the number 
of Union to Confederate formations in play. The scaling of 
the game is such that Union formations are corps, whereas 
Confederate formations are divisions. Although Confederate 
divisions tended to be much larger than Union divisions, 
the fact remains that the Union troop numbers were close 
to double those of the Confederates in this battle. I wanted 
to ensure Union numerical superiority was reflected in the 
game, to give some nod to the simulation, but I also wanted to 
ensure some playable asymmetry in the game. I didn’t want 
players to be lost in micromanaging more than a very limited 
number of units each. I wanted the Union to have more, so 
they had an array of offensive strategies to pursue, but I didn’t 
want them to have too many more so that the game became 
horribly unbalanced, or so that it became markedly ahistorical 
through misrepresentations of organizational limitations.
Once again, thank you to Mike, Grant, Sean, Mark, Sam, 
and playtesters.
-Maurice, Charlottesville, Virginia,(Prezcon) 53 miles from 
Chancellorsville, March 2020.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Smith, C., Chancellorsville: 1863. Oxford: Osprey Publishing, 
1998.
Gallagher, G., Glatthaar, J.T., Krick, R., Engle, S., The 
American Civil War: this mighty scourge of war. Oxford: 
Osprey Publishing, 2003
Mackowski, C., and White, K.D., Chancellorsville’s Forgotten 
Front: the battles of second Fredericksburg and Salem Church, 
May 3, 1863. El Dorado Hill, CA: Savas Beatie, 2013.
Game Design: Maurice Suckling
Solitaire Game Development: Mark Wylie
Creative Direction: Sean Cooke
Original Map Design: Sam Chung
© 2020 Worthington Publishing

TWO PLAYER - QUICK REFERENCE
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The Union player takes the first turn in a round. Then 
the Confederate player takes their turn in a round.
Each player’s turn has the same phases:
1.	 Play Activation card from one of the three in your 
hand and gain momentum cubes for the card played.
2.	 Determine whether you are playing the major, minor, 
or one of the free actions of transfer reinforcements 
or build redoubt.
3.	 Pay Activation cost by reducing cohesion for the 
activated formation.
4.	 If, as a result of movement, combat occurs, perform 
combat.
5.	 After all actions have been performed, optionally 
purchase one tactics card, and refresh the tableau 
with a new card.
6.	 Draw a new Activation card.
When attacking, each player always uses the PLAYER 
combat results table.
TERRAIN MODIFIERS
	» Attacking along double-headed 
green arrows = +2 dice
SOLITAIRE - QUICK REFERENCE
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The sequence of play for the solitaire player is the same as 
in the two player version.
For the BOT the sequence is:
	» Turn over the top card of the BOT activation draw 
deck, read it, and apply the directions.
RULE CHANGES IN SOLO GAME
	» The BOT NEVER pays an activation cost for its 
formations.
	» The BOT NEVER receives any momentum cubes.
	» The BOT General(s) abilities NEVER feature in the 
	» The tactics deck is NEVER cycled through in the 
BOT’s turn.
When attacking, the BOT always uses the BOT combat 
results table, apply the results for each die.
BOT TERRAIN MODIFIERS
	» BOT attacking along double-headed 
green arrows = +1 die
Note: regardless of modifiers from arrowheads and redoubts, 
a BOT formation will ALWAYS attack with the minimum 
of 1 die.