GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1.	
Introduction......................................................... 	
2.	
Components and Terms....................................... 	
3.	
Sequence of Play................................................. 	
4.	
Leaders................................................................ 	
5.	
Leader Activation and Orders............................. 	
6.	
Movement............................................................ 	
7.	
Facing and Zones of Control............................... 	
8.	
Missile Combat................................................... 	
9.	
Shock Combat..................................................... 	
10.	 Special Units....................................................... 	
11.	 Effects of Combat................................................ 	
12.	 Fortification......................................................... 	
13.	 Army Withdrawal................................................ 	
14.	 Optional Rules..................................................... 	
TABLE OF CONTENTS
	

(1.0) INTRODUCTION
Chandragupta brings the art of war in ancient India to GMT’s Great 
Battles of History series. It covers the brief but rapid rise of the Mau-
ryan Empire, from the Emperor Chandragupta’s first victories over 
the Nanda clan to the expulsion of the Seleucids from the Indus river 
valley, and finally the conquest of the last independent kingdom on 
the subcontinent, Kalinga, by Chandragupta’s grandson Ashoka.
The battles simulated here illustrate the traditional “four-fold” divi-
sion of the Indian military system, with the elephant corps reigning 
supreme in prestige (though not always effectiveness), and the lightly 
armed infantry regarded as little more than fodder for chariots’ 
wheels and trampling elephants. Though anachronistic, chariots still 
play a prominent role on the Indian battlefield, while the modestly 
armored cavalry is afforded a tentative importance at best. And in 
Chandragupta, players will grapple with the unique aspects of the 
Indian military “classes”—the loyal Maulas, the mercenary armies, 
as well as the unpredictable tribals and the powerful but independent 
trade guilds—and glean what were to be the seeds of the Mauryan 
Empire’s eventual demise.
Chandragupta includes historical notes so you can see what ques-
tions of military history arose from the individual battles, as well 
as design notes that explain the thinking behind some of the game’s 
design decisions, and play notes with tips or comments about how 
to play the game. There is the usual section on terminology for your 
use in becoming oriented to the different unit types and major game 
terms. Finally, the Scenario Booklet contains the orders-of-battle, 
setup instructions, and victory conditions for each of the battles 
featured in the game, as well as estimates of how long the battles 
take to play and how well-balanced (in terms of having a chance to 
win) they are. Though based upon playtest input, your own experi-
ences may differ.
A Note for Players: Chandragupta, while not an overly difficult 
game to learn or understand, uses a tactical system that rewards 
those who know what their units can do and how to exploit the 
capabilities of even the worst of them. This is an archery-oriented 
style of warfare, with the elephant corps taking center stage in terms 
of battlefield prominence, a major departure from contemporary 
Western systems in which infantry largely reigned supreme. 
 
For Those Who Have Never Played a Historical Simulation Before: 
Your main challenge will be that war gaming has its own language. 
Also, the rules use a “sectional” approach that, while reading them 
may be a somewhat disjointed process to the uninitiated, does help 
you find things quickly when you need them. Above all, this is sup-
posed to be fun, so peruse the rules, open up one of the battlefield 
maps, and push some counters around to get a feel for simulation 
gaming. We suggest you start with the Pataliputra scenario—set it 
up (put the designated counters in their assigned “starting” hexes”), 
turn to the rules section called Sequence of Play (3.0) on page 6, 
and simply start doing what the sequence tells you to do, referring 
to the rules as needed. After about 30 minutes or so, you’ll be good 
to go.
For Those Who Have Not Played the System Before: Even if you 
are quite familiar with simulation gaming, we suggest you set up the 
Pataliputra scenario and push the counters around for a turn or two 
before actually starting a game. This will reveal the various tactical 
strategies available, how the different types of weapons systems may 
be best used and how to best (try to) protect against them. The one 
thing to remember is that the more you know about your units and 
how they act/interact, the better commander you will be.
For Those Who Have Played the System: Chandragupta uses a 
system similar to Great Battles of Alexander Deluxe (GBoH Vol. 
I), with rules modifications and additions that portray the leadership 
and command hierarchies (called “grades” in the game) that are 
unique to the Indian military system of the era. We have also modi-
fied the Chariot rules to something more historical and congruent 
to the Indians’ use of this weapon system. Since Elephants are so 
prominent here, you’ll notice some changes and additions to how 
the pachyderms have been treated in earlier volumes. There are also 
new rules that extensively treat terrain features such as fortifications 
and cities. As always, a thorough review of the Charts & Tables is 
heartily recommended.
If you have any questions about these rules, we’ll be glad to (try 
to) answer them. You can find our contact information at www.
GMTgames.com. You also reach us at www.ConsimWorld.com in 
the various gaming sections.
(2.0) COMPONENTS AND TERMS
The Chandragupta components include:
•	 2 22” x 34” map sheets (back-printed)
• 	1 22” x 17” map sheet
• 	3 counter sheets (840 counters)
• 	1 Rules Book
• 	1 Scenario Book
• 	4 player aid cards
• 	1 ten-sided die
• 	plastic counter storage bags
(2.1) THE MAPS
Each battle uses one or more game maps on which is overlaid a 
hexgrid to regulate movement and combat. The effects of the differ-
ent types of terrain on the map are covered in the rules and charts. 
The battles of Kalinga and Magadha use one map plus a half-map 
extension. The battles of Pataliputra, Takshashila, Gandhara, along 
with the Revolt in the Provinces use one map. Malayaketu and the 
Suppression of the Khashas are played on a 1/2 sized map.
(2.2) THE PLAYING PIECES
There are three types of playing pieces, or counters: combat units, 
representing the various types of fighting troops; leaders, the indi-
viduals who command the troops; and information markers used to 
note specific pieces of information necessary for play.
(2.21) Combat units come in two sizes: square (single) and rectangu-
lar (double-size), the latter representing larger, linear formations such 
as the feared, but rather rigid, Macedonian Phalanx. Each combat 
unit is a specific Type and, possibly, Grade or Class (as illustrated 
below), depending on its weaponry and armor/protection. All combat 
units are rated numerically for their Size, Troop Quality (TQ) and 
Movement capability. Units that are capable of firing missiles also 
have a Missile Indicator indicating the type of missile weapon used 
(J=javelin; A, A* = arrow; S=sling) with Artillery classified by type 
(Yantra, etc.). The Missile Table gives the Ranges for these missiles. 
Each combat unit has two sides. 
For most units, the ratings are the same on both sides of the counter. 
The reverse side is used to indicate that the unit has “Moved” at 
least once that game turn. The reverse side of some Chariot units 
indicates that the occupants have dismounted and are now fighting 

on foot (separate “Moved” markers are supplied to indicate that 
these units have moved).
(2.22) Each combat unit is divided into Type, Class (not all units), 
or Grade (Indian units only):
TYPE: A unit’s Type—e.g., Heavy Infantry (HI), Elephant (EL), 
etc.—is used to determine its relative Superiority (see 9.17) against 
other types of units. 
CLASS: Sometimes a Type is further subdivided by Class, e.g. 
Heavy Infantry comes in two classes, Hypaspist (no indicator) and 
Hoplite (HO). A unit’s Class allows for any variation of effective-
ness within the Type. 
GRADE: Indian units are also distinguished by their military “grade” 
as identified by italic letter, e.g. an Indian Light Infantry (LI) unit 
will be either of the Maula (m), Bhrta (b) or Sreni (a.k.a. “Guild”) 
(s) grade, or will be designated as a Tribal (t). Grade designation 
is important in terms of command and combat effectiveness within 
type, and other special characteristics. Note that counter coloring and 
unit symbols also differ among grade to aid in identification.
DESIGN NOTE: Only Indian units have a grade designation. These 
grades (called “classes” in military treatises of the era) placed 
Indian units in a command hierarchy that distinguished substantial 
differences in their training, abilities—and loyalty. Not all grades 
defined in the period texts are present in the game. For purposes of 
streamlining the rules, some of the less common classes have been 
subsumed into the Bhrta and Tribal grades used here.	
 
(2.23) Examples of Leader Counters
Leaders have a variety of ratings used to rate their Initiative and Com-
mand. Indian Guild Chiefs and Tribal Chiefs have slightly different 
counters to reflect the different command systems they use. Leaders 
and Leader Activation are discussed in 4.0 and 5.0.
(2.24) Examples of Combat Units
 
Medium Infantry (MI)
Maula grade (m)
Light Cavalry (LC)
Bhrta grade (b)
(BACK) White stripe: Unit has Moved.
Sreni (Guild) grade (s)
Light Infantry (LI)
Tribal grade (t)
Lancer Cavalry (LN)
Guild
Name
Tribal
Chief
(TC)
Guild and Tribal Chiefs
Tribe Name
Initiative
Charisma 
Command
Range
Guild 
Chief
(GC)
(asterisk indicates Long Bow)
Army/Kingdom
Grade (Maula) 
Sample Maula Unit
Missile (Bow)
Guild Name
Grade (Sreni) 
Sample Sreni (Guild) Unit
(Javelin)
Tribe Name
Grade (Tribal) 
Sample Tribal Unit
Name
Charisma
Rank
Command Range
Initiative
Line Command
Capability
Sample Overall Commander - Front (Activated Side)
Finished Indicator
Rear (Finished Side)
Strategy Rating
Subordinate Commander
Setup Location 
(e.g. LF = Left Flank)
Unit type under Nayaka’s 
command 
(e.g. EL=Elephants)
Nayaka Commander (N)
Nayaka Commander

Chariot (CH)
Armed w/ Bow (A)
Heavy Chariot (CH*)
Armed w/ Javelin & Bow (J/A)
Heavy Infantry (HI)
Hypaspist
Heavy Infantry (HI)
Hoplite (HO)
Phalanx (PH)
Heavy Cavalry (HC)
Cataphracted (CAT)
Elephant (EL)
Armed w/ Javelin & Archer Screen (J/a)
Skirmisher (SK)
Armed w/ Sling (S)
Artillery (AT)
Yantra
(2.25) Examples of Information Markers. Information Markers, 
such as “1s,” “2s” (representing Cohesion Points lost), “Routed,” 
“Finished,” etc., are used to record certain game functions, as dis-
cussed below.
OC Restricted (4.55)
Trumped (5.4)
In Column (6.5)
Must Shock Check TQ (7.33)
Must Shock No TQ Check (7.34)
Missile Low (8.19)
Out of Missiles (8.19)
Wounded Leader (9.15)
EL Screen Missile Low (10.11)
Fired Once (10.52)
Cohesion Marker (11.1)
Breach/Destroyed (12.31,12.32) 
Damaged (12.32)
 
(2.3) CHARTS, TABLES AND THE DIE
There are several Charts & Tables player aid cards. The use of each 
chart/table is explained in the rules, below. 
All tables use a ten-sided die; the ‘0’ is treated as a ‘0’ (not a ‘10’), 
and is less than ‘1’.
(2.4) TERMINOLOGY
We have included two sections. The first is a general definition of 
most-used terms in the game system. The second is more in the way 
of historical background, hopefully providing some insight into what 
units were and how they were used.
Game Terms
Activated Leader: The leader who is giving orders to his troops. 
Only one leader may be active at any one time.
Class: Subcategory within “Type”, used to differentiate between 
various weapons/armor systems within a type. EXAMPLE: Hoplites 
(HO), a class of Heavy Infantry (HI).
Cohesion: A unit’s ability to remain in an organized, fighting for-
mation. Combat results are in the form of Cohesion “hits” causing 
reductions to a unit’s Cohesion level (see Troop Quality).

DR: Acronym for die roll; the roll of a single ten-sided die
DRM: Acronym for die roll modifier; a number added to or sub-
tracted form the result of a DR (die roll).
Finished Leader: A previously activated leader who is “Finished” 
with his actions, and (normally) may not be activated again. Leaders 
may be Finished for other reasons, such as failure to Trump, etc.
Grade: A classification of Indian (only) combat unit. Grade desig-
nates an Indian unit’s place in the Indian military command hierar-
chy. From highest prestige (and also status) to lowest, the hierarchy 
encompassed the grades Maula, Bhrta, Sreni, and Tribal.
Inactive Leader: A leader who has yet—and is still eligible—to 
be activated.
Individual Order: An order by a leader to an individual unit to 
move, attack, etc.
Leader: Leaders were the kings, rajas, generals, guild and tribal 
chieftains who commanded/influenced the troops.
Line: All units of specified Type(s) which are eligible to move under 
a single Line Command. 
Line Command: The ability of certain leaders to move large sec-
tions (Lines) of troops at once.
MA: Acronym for a unit’s basic Movement Allowance. It also 
represents a unit’s maneuverability compared with the other units 
in the game.
Missile Volley: Friendly units throwing javelins, slinging stones, or 
shooting arrows at enemy units. 
Momentum: The mechanic by which a leader can undertake more 
than one Orders Phase in a turn.
MP: Acronym for Movement Points. Terrain has a cost in Movement 
Points to cross or move through.
Orders Phase: The period during a turn when a Leader gives orders 
to his troops to move and fight.
Shock Combat: Hand-to-hand, (and, often literally, eyeball-to-
eyeball), hack and thrust, slash and crash, push and shove melee. 
Size: Representing not only the number of men in that unit but also 
its density and formation.
Superiority: The relative capabilities of the opposing weapons/
armor systems which will help determine who will take fewer/more 
Cohesion Hits in combat. 
TQ: Acronym for the all-important Troop Quality rating. The TQ 
Rating is, by far, the most important number a combat unit has, and 
it will be consulted constantly throughout play—at almost any time 
a unit does something that will endanger its cohesion.
TQ Check: A frequently-used game mechanic by which the unit’s 
TQ is compared against a die roll; the difference between TQ and 
DR often results in Cohesion Hits.
Trump: The mechanic by which an enemy leader can stop a friendly 
leader from undergoing an Orders Phase and transfer that phase to 
him. It can also be used by a friendly leader to go before another, 
but lower-rated, friendly leader.
Type: General, categorical description of a combat unit, usually used 
to determine combat effectiveness and results, as per the various 
combat charts. EXAMPLES: LI (Light Infantry), EL (Elephants), 
etc.
Wing Command: The ability of certain Indian (generally Mauryan) 
leaders to activate large sections of an army through the use of 
subordinate “Nayaka” commanders.
Zone of Control (ZOC): The hexes—usually directly to the front of 
a unit—into which that unit exerts, by its presence, enough “influ-
ence’ so as to inhibit freedom of movement by an enemy unit.
Combat Units/Terms
Archers: The most prevalent weapon among Indian infantry. Two 
types of bows are present in Chandragupta, the common bow “A” 
used by Sreni, Tribals, and foreign armies, and the long bow “A*”. 
The long bow (familiar to players of the Hydaspes scenario of 
Deluxe Great Battles of Alexander), made of bamboo, wood, and 
possibly laminated with sinew and other materials, was particularly 
large—72” long was considered best – and required foot-bracing 
to draw.
Artillery (AT): Though the terms varied in use and definitions 
weren’t exactly fixed, for game purposes yantra refers to the lighter 
scorpio-like device, and jamadagnya is equivalent (more or less) to 
the ballista. A sarvatobhadra is a catapult. 
Bhrta: The second tier of the Indian military hierarchy, the grade 
Bhrta comprised the large mercenary corps stationed at hand and 
ready to march at a king’s orders. Bhrta generally paid for their 
own weapons and armor; their quality was reasonably good but 
their loyalty was in proportion to their pay—not an issue for the 
wealthy Mauryas.
Cataphracted (CAT): From the Greek kataphraktos, meaning 
“armored” or clad in mail or leather. Effective as protection against 
missiles, most “cataphracting” in Indian armies was reserved for 
the elite of the elephant corps. 
Chariots (CH): Chariot corps still enjoyed great prestige in most of 
the Indian kingdoms of the era, and the Mauryas maintained them 
at great expense. An asterisk (“CH*”) indicates this “heavy” four-
wheeled (and cataphracted) variety. The Elephant Chariot (“elCH”) 
is—yes—an elephant-pulled chariot.
Elephants (EL): The crème-de-la-crème of the Indian military, 
elephants were considered the “victory of kings in battles” and the 
implicit faith in their military effectiveness did not truly fade until 
the advent of firearms. Particularly useful for trampling and scat-
tering enemy infantry (or friendly troops when enraged), they were 
also handy for battering down camp gates and walls. Many elephant 
units, particularly of the Maula grade, were cataphracted.
Heavy Cavalry (HC): Cavalry trained and armed for shock com-
bat, and invariably foreign, as the Indians did not adopt them (why 
bother when one has elephants?). Wearing some armor, their shock 
capability often came from their fighting formations rather than 
their weaponry.
Heavy Infantry (HI): A Type that includes Hoplites and hypaspists. 
The basic foot infantry of the Seleucids, usually protected by 30+ 
lbs of armor (helmet, breastplate and, maybe, leg armor), shield and 
both a short sword and a seven-foot (or more) spear. 

Hoplite (HO): The “grunts” of classical-era Greek warfare, a class 
of Heavy Infantry.
Hypaspist: Macedonian hypaspists, an elite Hoplite group, were 
somewhat lighter (in armor) than Hoplites and thus more mobile. 
They also (probably) carried a shorter spear. 
Lancers (LN): Light cavalry units trained to use a lance for at-
tack. They have no missile capability (a simplification for game 
purposes.) 
Light Cavalry (LC): Mounted archers and javelinists whose great 
plus was their mobility. They rarely carried armor/protection or any 
other weapon.
Light Infantry (LI): A generic term applied to foot units with little 
or no body armor, and possibly a light shield and sword. Indian 
infantry of the era was almost exclusively light infantry, heavily 
missile-oriented and valued for mobility. Since they were not given 
to close formations anyway, their cohesion was less vulnerable to 
broken terrain—though this also made them more vulnerable to 
trampling elephants.
Maula: or “hereditary” troops, these were the professional soldiers 
and thus considered the top grade of the Indian military hierarchy. 
They were the best trained, their equipment was paid for by the state, 
and they were unfalteringly loyal to the king. They also had a higher 
morale than the other grades (rent-free lands and tax exemptions no 
doubt were factors here).
HISTORICAL NOTE: Though “hereditary” likely indicated that the 
privileged soldierly status of the Maula was passed from father to 
son, they were not exclusively of the Kshatriya warrior caste. 
Medium Infantry (MI): Units with some armor (usually chest 
mail) and heavier weapons (usually spears and swords) than Light 
Infantry, and were trained for Shock combat. 
Phalanx (PH): A formation of shoulder-to-shoulder Hoplites used 
in Greek warfare and perfected by the Macedonians, who relied on 
an extremely long spear (the 16–18 foot Macedonian sarissa) that 
enabled the middle ranks to help present a truly formidable and 
demoralizing frontage when advancing.
Skirmishers (SK): A generic term applied to types of Greek troops 
that wore no armor and used missiles: javelinists, archers and sling-
ers. They did not fight in strict formation and were generally not 
capable of or trained for Shock. They were intended to harass and 
annoy the approaching enemy. The Indians did not employ skirmish-
ers (that’s what Tribals were for).
Sreni: Sreni or srenibala were analogous to trade guilds, and their 
troops were something of a corporate militia, contracted in the 
royal army—usually during threat of invasion—to defend trading 
centers and caravans, or to protect temples and shrines. The troops 
of this grade were led by their own chiefs and often followed their 
own agendas—and thus not high on the king’s “loyalty” scale. Also 
referred to as “Guilds” in the game.
Tribals: Also known as atavibalam or atavika, the Tribals were a 
myriad of independent clans from the vast forests and inaccessible 
mountain areas of India. Though undisciplined, kings nonetheless 
employed them to scout out rough terrain, harass an enemy’s flanks, 
or—if the king was in a vindictive mood—they were set loose to 
plunder the enemy’s countryside.
(2.5) GAME SCALE
Each point of Size denotes either 150 infantry or 100 cavalry. Tribal 
infantry were perhaps 200 infantry per size point because their for-
mations (if you would call it that) were denser. Each chariot Size 
Point equals from 6–7 chariots, and each elephant Size Point is one 
elephant. Foot skirmishers are an exception; their size—always 
‘1’—reflects not their numerical strength but their dispersed type 
of formation.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Most modern historians agree that “exact” 
numbers are almost impossible to divine, but the best historical data 
are derived from the Arthashastra, the famous military treatise writ-
ten during the Mauryan dynasty. Based on the treatise’s descriptions 
of rank depths and frontages, the recommended distances between 
units standing abreast in formation, and other details, we have man-
aged to come up with what we feel are good “guesstimates.” 
Each hex is approximately 60–70 paces (yards) from side to side. 
Each game turn covers, rather loosely, 15–20 minutes of real time, 
although gamers should not take this too literally.
(2.6) GAME LENGTH 
Most battles consist of an indeterminate number of Game Turns. 
Since battles are usually fought until one side withdraws, there is 
usually no need to keep track of how many turns have passed. Some 
battles, however, do keep track of time, so we’ve provided you with 
a Turn Record Track with the Charts and Tables. 
(3.0) SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Players activate each of their leaders in the order determined by 
their Initiative Rating, as per 5.1. When a leader is activated he 
gives Individual Orders (or, if eligible, Line Commands or Wing 
Commands) which allow units within his Command Range to move 
and conduct combat. After all leaders have been activated and are 
“Finished,” each player checks for Rout and Recovery and Army 
Withdrawal, after which the game turn is concluded. 
A. Leader Activation Phase
1.	The player with the lowest-Initiative-rated leader, who has not 
yet been activated, activates that leader. If that leader is eligible 
for, and wishes to use, a Line or Wing Command, he rolls—when 
necessary—for that ability at this point.
2.	Non-Momentum Trump attempts (5.41 & 5.42) may be made 
here.
B. Orders Phase
1.	Movement and Missile Fire Segment.
For each Individual Order issued by an activated leader, the 
a.	
player may perform any one function listed in 5.22 with one 
combat unit, OR
For leaders with Line Command capability (4.3), an entire 
b.	
Line of units may Move and/or Missile Fire, OR
If Wing Commanders (4.5) are present, they may issue Wing 
c.	
Commands to subordinate Nayaka Commanders in range. 
The moving player places a “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” marker 
on top of each moving “heavy” unit the instant it moves adjacent 
to an enemy unit (7.31).
Units capable of Orderly Withdrawal (6.6) and/or Reaction Fire 
(8.2) may do so throughout this segment.

2.	Shock Combat Segment. After a leader has finished issuing orders, 
eligible units engage in Shock combat (9.0), using the following 
sequence: 
a.	Shock Designation: all non-moving, eligible units that 
choose to Shock are given “SHOCK—No Check” markers.
b.	The Charge (Pre-Shock TQ Check).
c.	Resolution of Possible Leader Casualties.
d.	Resolve Shock Combat.
e.	Check for possible Collapse and Rout.
 
C. Momentum Phase OR Return to “A”
1.	The player whose leader was activated in the immediately preced-
ing Orders Phase may attempt a Momentum (5.3) die roll to give 
that leader another Orders Phase (Phase “B”), or, play returns to 
Phase “A” for any leaders that have not been activated. 
2.	If the player attempts a Momentum die roll, the opposing player 
may attempt a Momentum Trump (5.42[2]).
D. Rout and Recovery Phase
1.	Remove “Rallied” markers.
2.	Rout Movement: Routed units must undergo Rout Movement 
(11.22). Check for Tribal Flight (11.4). 
3.	Reload Segment: Eligible missile units may get more missiles 
(8.110).
4.	Resolve Breach Attempts (12.3).
5.	Flip all “Moved” units and “Finished” leaders to their front 
sides.
E. Camp Orders Phase
Artillery units and individual units that are “out of command” but 
inside camps may move, fire, and then Shock attack. See 12.17.
F. Withdrawal Phase
Each Player totals his Rout Points (13.10) to see if his army has left 
the field. If either army has, the game is over with victory going 
to the player whose army remains on the field. Otherwise, at the 
conclusion of Phase “F,” that game turn is concluded and another 
game turn begins. 
(4.0) LEADERS
Combat units may not move or fire missiles without getting an 
Individual Order or a Line or Wing Command from a leader. Those 
combat units that received such orders during a turn, or that are 
within Command Range of that same leader, may conduct Shock 
Combat. Each leader counter has two sides: “Active” and “Fin-
ished.” A leader who has not yet been or is now activated uses his 
Active side. A leader that has concluded his activation is flipped to 
his Finished side. 
(4.1) LEADER COUNTERS
Each leader possesses several ratings:
Command Range: Denotes his overall presence on the battlefield as 
well as the presence of his aides and the effectiveness of his abilities; 
the range in hexes over which that leader may exert his Initiative.
Initiative: Denotes his basic ability to control forces and make rapid 
decisions. Initiative is used to determine the order of leader activation 
and the chances of that leader being able to use Momentum. It also 
defines the number of Individual Orders that leader may issue per 
Orders Phase. The higher the rating, the better the leader.
Line Command Rating: Leaders capable of issuing Line Com-
mands have an “L” printed adjacent to their Initiative Rating. 
When designated by the scenario, Indian Leaders may issue a Line 
Command or if eligible may issue Wing Commands to their Nayaka 
commanders (see 4.4 and 4.5). Indian Guild and Tribal Chiefs (as 
well as Greek leaders) cannot issue Wing Commands. 
Movement Allowance: MA for leaders is not printed on the counter. 
The number of Movement Points any non-Tribal Leader may expend 
in an Orders Phase is nine (9), and they use Cavalry costs on the 
Movement chart unless riding an Elephant or Chariot in which case 
the cost is for those unit types instead. The MA for Tribal Leaders is 
six (6) Movement Points. Tribal Leaders use Infantry costs on the 
Movement chart. Leaders do not incur cohesion hits. 
Charisma Rating: Denotes a leader’s ability to spur his troops on 
to greater efforts in combat. The rating is used to adjust the die roll 
on the Shock Combat Results table in his favor for combat units 
with which he is stacked. 
Strategy Rating: For Subordinate leaders only; expresses the ability 
to issue Line Commands on their own Initiative.
PLAY NOTE: There are no Elite Commanders in Chandragupta. 
(4.2) LEADER CAPABILITIES: INDIVIDUAL 		
ORDERS 
(4.21) A leader may give Individual Orders to a friendly combat 
unit within his Command Range, which is measured by tracing an 
unobstructed path of hexes equal to or less than the range between 
leader and unit. Count the unit’s hex, but not the leader’s. A path is 
obstructed by hexes occupied by enemy units, a hex in an enemy 
Zone of Control (ZOC) unoccupied by a friendly unit, or terrain a 
leader could not cross or enter using his method of conveyance (see 
6.16). Friendly units negate enemy ZOCs for purposes of tracing 
order paths. All other paths are considered unobstructed. Command 
Ranges are calculated at the instant the Individual Order is given.
(4.22) An Individual Order allows a friendly unit to conduct move-
ment and/or missile fire, etc., as per 5.22. Without an order, a unit 
may not move voluntarily. In a given Orders Phase, a leader may 
issue a number of orders equal to his Initiative Rating. Once a leader 
can give no more Orders and cannot be activated again, flip him to 
his Finished side.
(4.23) A leader (other than an Overall Commander – see 4.4) in an 
enemy Zone of Control may not issue Orders (or Line Commands, 
for that matter) either to combat units or to himself... and thus may 
not move out of that enemy ZOC ... unless and until he is moved 
out of that ZOC by an Order from the Overall Commander. See 
also 5.27.
(4.24) A leader who is “Finished” (5.15) may not issue Individual 
Orders (or Wing or Line Commands). However, he may move—but 
only if ordered by an Overall Commander to do so.

(4.3) LEADER CAPABILITIES: LINE 
COMMANDS
This section applies only to those leaders with an “L” printed adja-
cent to their Initiative Rating.
PLAY NOTE: Indian Tribal Chiefs and the majority of Guild Chiefs 
do not use Line Commands. Greek leaders do have the ability to 
issue Line Commands.
(4.31) A leader with Line Command Capability, instead of issuing 
any Individual Orders, may issue one Line Command to all the 
units in a Line (4.33), if he is eligible to do so (4.4). The allowable 
Lines are listed in the Line Command Eligibility section of each 
scenario. 
(4.32) Line Size. There is no limit to the number of units in a Line 
that may be so ordered—other than 4.33—and all the eligible units 
in a Line do not have to take part. Units in a Line do not have to 
stay together when they move ... although to do otherwise is to court 
organizational disaster.
(4.33) Line Composition.
Infantry Lines. In order for Infantry units to be eligible for a Line 
Command:
1.	The units must be all the same Type/Class as listed in that scenar-
io’s Line Command Eligibility Chart. The Indian infantry Grades 
Maula and Bhrta may be considered part of the same line.
2.	The units must be either flank-to-flank or (but not “and”) front-
to-rear (see Facing, 7.1) to be in the same line. 
3.	The units in the line must be adjacent; any space—even an oc-
cupied space—between eligible units ends the line.
4.	An Infantry Line may be of any length regardless of Command 
Range.
5.	Indian Maula and Bhrta Light Infantry can be combined with 
Elephant or Chariot units to form Combined Elephant/Infantry 
and Chariot/Infantry lines (see below).
Cavalry/Chariot Lines. In order for Cavalry or Chariot units to be 
eligible for a Line Command:
1.	The units must all be of the same Type/Class listed in that sce-
nario’s Line Command Eligibility Chart. The Indian Maula and 
Bhrta Grades may be considered part of the same line.
2.	The units must all be within half the leader’s Command Range, 
rounded up. They do not have to be adjacent or flank-to-flank, 
etc. Units outside that Range are not in that Line, even if they are 
adjacent to units that are.
3.	Macedonian LN (Lancer) units are generally considered to be of 
a separate type for Line Command purposes, however, Indian LN 
units are not, i.e. Indian LN and Indian LC units may be part of 
the same line.
4.	Combined Chariot/Infantry lines are treated separately (see be-
low); Cavalry never combine with any other Type.
Elephant Lines. To be eligible for a Line Command, Elephant units 
may be in either a linear (as with infantry) or non-linear (as with 
cavalry/chariots) formation: 
1.	To be in the same line, the Elephant units must be either flank-to-
flank or front-to-rear, adjacent with no intervening spaces. The 
line may be of any length without regard to command range, 
OR
	 They do not have to be adjacent, flank-to-flank etc. if they are 
within the leader’s Command Range. Units outside the Command 
Range in this case are not in the line, even if adjacent to units that 
are.
2.	No combining of the two formations is allowed—an Elephant 
line must be either “infantry style” or “cavalry style.”
3.	The Indian Grades Maula and Bhrta may be considered part of 
the same line.
4.	Combined Elephant/Infantry lines are treated separately (see 
below).
PLAY NOTE: Note that Cavalry Command Ranges for Line Com-
mand purposes are one half their printed Range, rounded up. Those 
for Elephants are not halved.
DESIGN NOTE: The treatment of elephant lines in Chandragupta is 
a departure from previous games in the GBoH series by combining 
the stricter Elephant formations defined in Deluxe Alexander with 
some aspects of the looser formations allowed in later games and 
modules. We believe that this greater latitude in command and con-
trol more accurately reflects the elephant’s status as the preeminent 
corps of the Indian military system.
Combined Elephant/Infantry and Chariot/Infantry Lines. Indian 
(only) Light Infantry (LI) units may be eligible for a Line Command 
in combination with friendly Chariot or Elephant units (any Types) 
when the following criteria are met:
1.	All units in the Combined Line must be either Maula or Bhrta 
grade (or both); no other grades are eligible.
2.	Light Infantry (LI) are the only infantry that can be part of a 
Combined Line.
3.	A Combined Line may be comprised of Light Infantry and Chariot 
or Light Infantry and Elephant units; Chariot and Elephant units 
cannot be in the same Line.
4.	The units must be either flank-to-flank or (but not “and”) front-
to-rear (see Facing, 7.1) to be in the same line.
5.	All eligible units in the Combined Line must be adjacent to one 
another; any space, even if occupied by an ineligible unit, ends 
the Line.
6.	Light Infantry units in the front rank of a flank-to-flank Combined 
Line cannot be adjacent; they must be separated by at least one 
intervening Chariot or Elephant unit (note that this applies to front 
rank only).
7.	A Light Infantry unit in a hex immediately behind the front rank 
of a flank-to-flank Combined Line may move as part of that Line 
if it is in a rear hex of an eligible Elephant or Chariot unit and 
facing the same direction (see Facing, 7.1). 
8.	Units in a Combined Line must stay together when they move 
(this is the disadvantage to Combined Lines—and an exception 
to 4.32).
9.	A Combined Line may be of any length, without regard to com-
mand range.

EXAMPLE: The units above are part of a Combined Elephant/
Infantry Line commanded by Subordinate Commander Sakatala 
(who is stacked atop an Elephant unit). They are all Bhrta with the 
exception of the EL unit (A), which is Maula and therefore is eligible. 
The LI units “following” in the rear hexes of adjacent Elephant 
units (B) are eligible. The LI unit (C) is not “following” an EL unit 
and therefore is not eligible; and (D) is not eligible because it is 
adjacent to the flank of another LI unit.
PLAY NOTE: The idea here is that the Infantry in a Combined Line 
are following the Elephant or Chariot units into battle. Rules should 
be interpreted with this in mind. 
DESIGN NOTE: The Combined Line illustrates both the preemi-
nence of the Elephant and Chariot in the Indian military system 
as well as the distinctly subordinate role of the Infantry, which 
often served as little more than support for the Elephant corps and 
Chariot-mounted knights. 
(4.34) For Infantry lines, “infantry-style” Elephant lines, or Com-
bined Lines, a leader must start his Orders Phase within two (2) 
hexes of at least one unit in that “line” with NO intervening combat 
units. He must have a clear LOS (8.14, and interpreted liberally in 
the case of disagreements) to that unit (Elephants do not block LOS). 
Nayaka leaders are an exception in that they must be stacked with 
a unit in the line. 
(4.35) Command Restrictions. Certain leaders who may issue 
Line Command may do so only to the Type of units specified in the 
scenario instructions or on their counters. Command Restrictions 
do not apply to Individual Orders (Important Exception: Sreni and 
Tribal leaders and units, see 4.6).
DESIGN NOTE: While Line Commands are a more efficient way 
to move large numbers of units, such “efficiency” comes at a cost, 
mostly as these leaders were not truly “professionals.” For example, 
a leader issuing a Line Command to move may not rally units in 
that Orders Phase.
(4.4) COMMAND HIERARCHY
There are five types of commanders in Chandragupta: Overall Com-
manders, Wing Commanders, Subordinate Commanders, Nayaka 
Commanders, and Guild/Tribal Chiefs. This section describes the 
general features of command system used by all the armies present 
in the game. Section 4.5 details the Mauryan Command System 
while 4.6 covers Guilds and Tribes. 
(4.41) Overall Commanders. Overall Commanders (OC) are those 
leaders that command the entire army, as designated in each scenario. 
Every army has an Overall Commander. OCs function like other 
leaders except that, when activated, OCs can:
1.	Leave enemy ZOCs by issuing an Individual Order to them-
selves.
2.	Issue Orders to other, friendly leaders (one per leader per Orders 
Phase) to move them. If the leader to be moved starts in an enemy 
ZOC, it costs the OC two (2) Orders to move that leader. Note 
that an OC in an enemy ZOC may not issue an Order to move 
another leader; he must first leave that ZOC.
3.	Issue Individual Orders to friendly combat units of any type, within 
range, for any purpose the game allows. An OC, however, cannot 
issue Individual Orders to Sreni or Tribal units (see 4.6).
4.	Issue a Line Command (if eligible to do so) to any line as per the 
Line Composition rules (4.33) in any Order Phase. An OC that 
issues a Line Command cannot do #1–3 above. 
5.	Can be used by Subordinate and Wing Commanders to automati-
cally issue Line/Wing Commands per 4.43 and 4.54.
PLAY NOTE: Some armies have more than one “Overall” com-
mander. The individual scenarios cover this situation.
(4.42) Subordinate Commanders. Subordinate Commanders (SC) 
are the second command tier leaders of the non-Indian armies and in 
Indian armies those leaders assigned to command a small section of 
the army independent of the Wing Commanders. SCs function like 
other leaders except that, when activated, SCs can:
• 	Issue Individual Orders to any units in his range (Sreni and Tribal 
units excepted).
• 	Issue a Line Command to a line as per the Line Composition rules 
(4.33) in an Initial (non-Momentum) Orders Phase if: 
	 1. it is the first game turn of the scenario, or
	 2. the SC starts the phase within his Overall Commander’s range, 
or
	 3. the SC is not within the Overall Commander’s Range or the 
player chooses not to use his OC as above, but the player rolls 
a die, and that die roll is the same as or lower than the leader’s 
Strategy Rating. If it is higher, he may issue only Individual 
Orders.
DESIGN NOTE: This limitation has much to do with chain-of-
command “red tape” vs. individual initiative (the die roll).
• 	In a Momentum-generated Orders Phase, issue a Line Command 
if the SC issued a Line Command in the Initial Orders Phase as 
per #1 or #3 above. 
(4.43) Important Momentum Limitation: Subordinate command-
ers that used their proximity to their Overall Commander to issue 
a Line Command may not attempt/roll for Momentum. 
PLAY NOTE: Why, pray tell, is that? Well, it takes far more time 
and energy to use the chain of command than to call on one’s ini-
tiative.
(4.5) THE MAURYAN COMMAND 
HEIRARCHY
DESIGN NOTE: The Mauryans utilized a multi-tired command 
system necessary for fielding their often-enormous armies. This 
is expressed in a command hierarchy using the device of the Wing 
Commands and Nayaka subordinate commanders, as variously de-
scribed in the Mauryan military treatise Arthashastra. A Nayaka was 
something of a brigade-level commander. For game purposes (and 
also due to the fog of Indian history) we have somewhat abstracted 
this, giving the Nayaka a function similar to the legionary Tribune 
or a Contingent Commander in previous GBoH volumes. 
PLAY NOTE: The Mauryan Overall Commander controls the Center 
and Wings of his forces through his Wing Commanders. When a Wing 
Commander (WC) is activated he may, if the Nayaka Commanders 
(NCs) under his command have passed, issue a Wing Command al-
lowing for an entire wing of the army to move at the same time. In 
order to efficiently control a Wing, the NCs must be within command 
range of their Wing Commander or the OC—and the Line Composi-

tion rules must be adhered to. As Players will learn, keeping their 
forces together after battle is joined is not easy to do.
(4.51) The Mauryan army is led by an Overall Commander (OC). 
The OC subordinates command of his army’s sections, or wings, 
to a Wing Commander (WC). The Wing Commander, in turn, sub-
ordinates command of his wing to his Nayakas (NCs) by issuing a 
Wing Command.
1.	Wing Commanders may affect/lead only those Nayaka assigned 
to his wing(s), as designated in the scenario. Note that some OCs 
also serve as Wing Commanders; e.g. in Kalinga scenario, Ashoka 
commands EL center and EL rear Nayakas.
2.	Each wing is comprised of lines of one or more of the “four-
fold” Indian army constituents, e.g. Infantry, Cavalry, Chariots, 
Elephants, or a combined EL/Infantry or CH/Infantry lines.
3.	One or more of these lines, in turn, may be commanded by a 
Nayaka.
4.	Guild (Sreni) or Tribal troops in the Mauryan army get orders 
from their own Guild Chiefs or Tribal Chiefs, never a Nayaka, 
SC, or OC (unless an exception is called for in the scenario).
HISTORICAL NOTE: Though the Mauryans perfected this command 
system, they did not invent it out of whole cloth—they inherited 
it from the Nandas. So other Indian armies undoubtedly used a 
similarly hierarchical system. To reflect this, we have allowed the 
Nandas and Kalingans, in their respective scenarios, limited use of 
Nayakas and Wing Commanders.
(4.52) Wing Commanders are those leaders that command a wing 
or section of the Mauryan army. These commanders acted as quasi-
Overall Commanders for their assigned wings. WCs function like 
other leaders except that, when activated in any non-Momentum 
generated Orders Phase (see 5.1), a Wing Commander may do one 
of the following: 
1.	Issue Individual Orders to friendly combat units of any type, within 
range, per 4.2. A SC, however, cannot issue Individual Orders to 
Sreni or Tribal units (see 4.6). 
2.	Issue a Line Command to a line as per the Line Composition rules 
(4.33).
3.	Issue Orders to one of his Nayaka Commanders to move them. 
If the Nayaka Commander to be moved starts in an enemy ZOC, 
it costs the WC two (2) Orders to move him. 
4.	Issue a Wing Command (4.54[1]) to any one Nayaka Commander 
under his command (as designated by the scenario) and in his 
Range.
5.	Issue Wing Commands to multiple Nayaka Commanders under 
his command, and in his Range. See 4.54[2] and 4.54[3]. 
When activated, in any Momentum generated orders phase (see 5.3) 
a WC may do one of the following:
•	 Issue Individual Orders as in 4.52 #1 above.
•	 Issue a Line Command to a line as per the Line Composition rules 
(4.33).
The Greek/Macedonian armies and Guild/Tribal armies do not use 
Wing Commanders.
(4.53) Nayakas. A Nayaka Commander may give Line Commands 
only to the unit type specified on its counter (e.g. “Inf” for Infan-
try units, “Cav” for Cavalry units, “EL” for Elephant units, etc.). 
Nayakas assigned specifically to cavalry or infantry may only give 
Line Commands or Individual Orders to Cavalry or infantry units, 
respectively (no combination with other unit types). Nayakas as-
signed to Elephants or Chariots may combine infantry with the 
Chariots or Elephants as part of a line. The counter designation “left 
flank,” “right flank” etc. is for setup purposes only. 
When activated in any non-Momentum generated Orders Phase (see 
5.1), a Nayaka may do one of the following:
1.	Issue Individual Orders to eligible friendly combat units, as per 
4.2.
2.	Pass (place a “Passed” marker on this leader). A Nayaka that has 
Passed is still eligible to be used for a Mauryan Wing Command 
(see 4.54) when so activated by his Wing Commander. See also 
5.15.
3.	Issue a Line Command if inside the camp per 12.17.
When activated by a Wing Command (see 4.54 below), a Nayaka 
that “Passed” or is not Finished and is not currently in an enemy 
ZOC may issue a Line Command to eligible units comprising a Line 
(see 4.33). A Nayaka must be stacked with one of the units in that 
“line” in order to issue a Line Command.
A Nayaka may NOT:
•	 issue Line Commands without activation by a Wing Commander 
unless inside the camp (12.17)
•	 Pass in a Momentum-generated Phase
•	 use Momentum when activated by a Wing Command
•	 be used for Trumping
 
PLAY NOTE: This means that in a Momentum Phase Nayaka Com-
manders are limited to Individual Orders.
Clarification: CH and EL Nayaka can issue Individual Orders to 
LI if the Nayaka are eligible to command a mixed CH/LI or EL/LI 
line in that particular scenario.
(4.54) Wing Commands. Wing Commands are orders that “activate” 
the Nayakas under the Wing Commander’s control and within his 
Command Range. Nayakas that are Finished or in an enemy ZOC 
may not be activated. “Passed” Nayakas may be activated. When 
so activated, each Nayaka may then immediately issue a Line Com-
mand as part of that Orders Phase. 
A WC may activate one of his Nayaka Commanders with a Wing 
Command (4.52[4] above). However, he is restricted as to his ability 
to activate more than one Nayaka:
1.	First Turn Automatic: in the first turn (only) of any scenario a 
Wing Commander may automatically issue Wing Commands to 
all Nayakas in his range; doing so does not restrict his OC.
2.	Starting with second turn of game, if he is within the OC’s Range 
he does not need a die roll to activate multiple Nayakas. However, 
if he uses the OC to avoid rolling the die, the OC is immediately 
“Restricted” (see 4.55).
 
3.	Starting with second turn of game, if he is not within his OC’s 
Range, or the player chooses not to use the OC, he rolls the die 
for each additional Nayaka in his Range. The die roll must be the 
same as or lower than the WC’s Strategy Rating to activate the 
Nayaka. If the die roll is higher, the Nayaka is Finished.

EXAMPLE: Vitasoka is out of Ashoka’s (his OC) range, and has 
activated his Left Flank EL Nayaka. To activate any other Nayakas 
under his command, he must roll against his Strategy Rating.
If the wing Commander issues Wing Commands to multiple Nayaka 
(4.52 #5), each Nayaka issues its Line Command and moves/fires its 
units separately. The Shock Segment commences after all the activated 
Nayaka have issued their Line Commands and moved/fired their units. 
 
(4.55) OC Restriction. If an OC is used to enable one of his Wing 
Commanders to effect Wing Commands on multiple Nayakas with-
out a die roll, the OC is immediately Restricted. Place a “Restricted” 
marker on the OC. When a restricted OC is activated, the only func-
tions he may perform are:
•	 Rally and Recovery. 
•	 Movement, but with half (rounded up) his Movement Allow-
ance.
•	 He may attempt Momentum.
He may NOT Trump, nor may he move other units, including other 
leaders. Restricted OCs may NOT use their range to affect Shock for 
units already in ZOCs, as per 7.32[2]. A Finished OC may NOT be 
used to allow a Wing Commander to activate multiple Nayakas.
(4.6) INDIAN GUILD (“Sreni”) and TRIBAL 
CHIEFS
The trade-guild militias, or Srenibalam, were usually contracted as 
levies to the king and enlisted under their own chiefs; independent 
chieftains also led the tribals. Units under the Sreni and Tribal 
grades are therefore activated by and receive orders from their own 
commanders.
(4.61) Guild Chiefs are identified by the “GC” label on their counter, 
Tribal Chiefs by “TC.”
(4.62) Guild and Tribal Chiefs may command only those units in 
their Command Range who are members of their Guild or Tribe 
(as indicated by the Guild name or Tribal name printed on their 
counters). Likewise, Sreni and Tribal units cannot take orders from 
any other leaders (e.g. OCs, WCs). 
(4.63) Neither GCs or TCs are eligible for Momentum or Trump-
ing; their Initiative Ratings are used for activation and Individual 
Orders only. 
(4.64) In Combat, Charisma die roll modifiers (if any) apply only 
to that leader’s Tribe or Guild (see 9.17[3]).
(4.65) Guild Chiefs that are eligible to issue Line Commands (see 
4.3) are treated as Subordinate Commanders for their Guild. Such 
GC’s use their Initiative Ratings as their Strategy Ratings for pur-
poses of 4.42, Section 3.
(4.66) To be eligible for a Line Command, Guild infantry units must 
merely be within their Guild Chief’s Command Range; they are not 
constrained by the infantry Line restrictions of 4.33. Units outside 
the Command Range are not in the line. 
(4.7) LEADERS and MOVEMENT
(4.71) Leaders move under the following circumstances:
•	 They issue an Individual Order to themselves, which counts 
against the number of orders that leader may issue that Orders 
Phase.
•	 They may move—without expending an Individual Order—with 
any combat unit with which they are stacked and to which an 
Individual Order has been issued by that leader. The leader must 
remain stacked with the combat unit. 
•	 They receive an Individual Order from their Overall Command-
er.
•	 They may—not must—move as part of a Line or Wing Command. 
The leader does not have to stay with the line.
(4.72) Leaders do not have—or need—any Facing (7.1).
(4.8) LEADERS and COMBAT
This section covers general rules relating to leaders and enemy 
combat units. 
(4.81) Leaders may enter enemy ZOCs only if stacked with a friendly 
combat unit (see 4.23) or that ZOC already contains a friendly com-
bat unit. Like combat units, leaders must cease movement for that 
Order (or Line Command) upon entering an enemy ZOC. A leader 
may leave an enemy ZOC by itself only if it receives Orders from 
the Overall Commander or, if applicable, a Wing Commander; see 
4.41 and 4.53.
(4.82) The instant any combat unit moves adjacent to a leader, or if a 
combat unit is adjacent to an enemy leader after combat, whether he 
is alone in a hex or stacked with a friendly combat unit, that leader 
can undertake an Orderly Withdrawal (see 6.6). If the leader is not 
stacked with a combat unit and does not—or cannot—withdraw, 
because he is surrounded by enemy units, ZOCs and/or impassable 
terrain—that leader is eliminated (captured/killed). A leader stacked 
with a combat unit that uses Orderly Withdrawal may withdraw 
with the unit. 
(4.83) Leader casualties may occur as a result of combat. See 8.111 
and 9.15 for Missile and Shock Combat, respectively. There are no 
Replacements for eliminated leaders. 
(5.0) LEADER ACTIVATION AND 
ORDERS
Combat units may move and fight only when ordered to do so by 
their leaders. Leaders issue Orders or Line/Wing Commands in the 
Orders Phase.
•	 Leaders may not issue any Individual Orders or Line/Wing com-
mands until they are activated.
•	 Players may use the Momentum rule to give an activated leader 
up to two additional Orders Phases.
•	 They may also use the Trump Option to activate a Leader sooner 
than usual. 
An Important Note: For the sake of brevity, the word “order” will 
also mean a Line Command (LC), unless the rule specifically uses 
the term Individual Order to distinguish it from a LC.
(5.1) HOW TO ACTIVATE LEADERS
(5.11) All leaders start the turn Inactive. Each leader has the oppor-
tunity to become Activated and issue orders. After they complete 
issuing orders, they are then Finished. In a rare occurrence (5.33[1]) 
Finished leaders may be Re-Activated.

(5.12) Each game turn starts with one player activating one of his 
leaders. Leaders are activated in the order of their Initiative rating, 
starting with the lowest to highest. The lowest possible Initiative 
Rating is a 1. In case of ties, roll a die; high roll goes first, with play-
ers then alternating among the remaining, similarly-rated leaders. 
If two leaders on the same side have the same Initiative Rating, the 
owning player decides which one goes first. 
(5.13) Only Inactive leaders that have not previously been activated 
in that turn are eligible for activation with the exception of the Mo-
mentum Rule (5.3) or Reactivation (5.33[2]). 
EXAMPLE: At Gandhara, Chandragupta (6), Vidudhaba (5), and 
Ghosa (4), plus Seleucus (6) and Patrocles (5) are the available, 
inactive leaders. After Ghosa has been activated and finished giving 
orders, Patrocles and Vidudhaba would roll the die to see which of 
the two goes first. 
(5.14) A leader may be activated a maximum of three (3) times in 
succession in a single game-turn (using Momentum for the last two 
times). Exception: Reactivation (5.33[1]).
(5.15) A leader is Finished when one of the following occurs:
1.	The leader has completed an Orders Phase and does not (or can-
not) make a Momentum attempt; or
2.	The leader is Trumped by an enemy leader; or
3.	The leader fails a Trump or Momentum attempt.
A Nayaka that Passed is NOT Finished. When a leader is Finished, 
flip his counter over to so indicate. A Finished leader cannot under-
take any further Orders Phases that turn. Exception: see 5.33[1].
(5.2) THE ORDERS PHASE
(5.21) Once activated, a leader can give a number of Individual 
Orders equal to his Initiative rating to units within his Command 
Range; OR, he can issue Line or Wing Commands, as per 4.3 and 
4.54. Thus, when Chandragupta (#2) is activated he can issue up to 
six (6) orders for that activation. He may choose to issue less (or 
none); he may not issue more in that Orders Phase. Alternatively, 
Chandragupta could issue a Line Command instead of issuing or-
ders. When Ghosa is activated, he may, if eligible, issue one Line 
Command, one or more Wing Commands, or he may issue four 
Individual Orders. 
(5.22) Each Individual Order allows the player to 
1.	Move any one unit. Missile units may also fire at any time during 
their movement (8.1); or 
2.	Individual Missile Fire with any one missile unit without move-
ment; or
3.	Remove two Cohesion Hits, as per 11.13; or 
4.	Attempt to Rally a Routed unit, as per 11.3.
(5.23) Each Line Command allows all the units in one Line to 
1.	Move any/all units in that line. Moving units capable of firing 
missiles may do so; or
2.	Any/all units in that line may Missile fire without movement. 
Note: Leaders may not use a Line Command for Order #’s 3–4, above. 
 
(5.24) Each Wing Command allows a Wing Commander (only) to 
activate one or more of his subordinate Nayaka Commanders. The 
activated Nayaka Commander(s) may then issue Line Commands 
to the unit type specified on its counter and within the Nayaka’s 
Range. See 4.53[2].
(5.25) Although a given combat unit may be ordered to move 
more than once per Game Turn, it may not move (or Missile 
Fire) more than once per Orders Phase. (See 6.12 and 6.13). 
 
EXAMPLE: (Revolt of Malayaketu) A combat unit ordered to move 
by Rakshasa may not be ordered by Rakshasa to move again in that 
Orders Phase. It may, however, be so ordered in a subsequent phase 
(in the same turn) by, say, Malayaketu, or even by Rakshasa if he 
gets a second (Momentum) activation. 
(5.26) Orders are not used to directly precipitate shock combat, 
which occurs in a subsequent segment. They can be used for Missile 
Fire (however, see 8.1). Reaction Fire (8.2) does not require orders; 
it occurs in response to enemy movement.
(5.27) Any leader—other than the Overall Commander—who starts 
an Orders Phase in an enemy ZOC may not issue orders (as per 4.23). 
However, his Command Range may still be used to designate units 
to engage in Shock Combat in that segment of the Orders Phase (see 
7.32[2]), so he is not entirely useless. In addition, he may still use his 
Charisma rating. He is not Finished simply because he is in an enemy 
ZOC; however, he is Finished—and unable to be activated—if:
•	 He comes under 5.15, or
•	 He has used his Command Range to allow units to engage in 
Shock. 
If neither of the above occurs, and he becomes eligible to issue or-
ders, the player must activate him before any higher-rated leaders. 
However, a leader so activated may not use Momentum.
EXAMPLE: If Ghosa started the Orders Phase in a ZOC he could 
not issue any orders, but he is still able to allow Shock. In either 
case, Ghosa is Finished at the conclusion of the phase. 
(5.28) After a leader has issued all of the orders he wishes (or can), 
friendly units engage in Shock in the ensuing Shock Combat Seg-
ment, as delineated by the introduction to 9.1. 
(5.29) After Shock combat has been completed that Orders Phase 
is finished. Two things may now happen:
1.	The player may attempt a Momentum Orders Phase (5.3) with 
the same leader who was just activated; or
2.	The next, eligible leader with the lowest Initiative Rating 
is activated (subject to Trumping), returning to Phase “A”. 
(5.3) MOMENTUM 
PLAY NOTE: Momentum (and Trumping, below) are highly useful 
and powerful gambits, especially for the Player with superior lead-
ership. However, they have a good chance of backfiring, and if they 
do, they often provide the opponent with major possibilities. 
(5.31) At the conclusion of the Orders Phase, if the leader who is-
sued orders for that Phase: 
•	 Is not in an enemy Zone of Control, and
•	 Was not previously Trumped or Bypassed (5.44), and
•	 Did not use his OC to issue a Line Command,
the player may attempt to undertake an additional Orders Phase 
with that same leader. In order to do so, that leader must pass a 
Momentum die roll.
(5.32) The player rolls the die and compares the result to the leader’s 
Initiative Rating. If it is the same or less than the rating, that leader 
starts another Orders Phase (Phase B); if it is more than the rating 
that leader is Finished for the game turn.

EXAMPLE: Thus, Chandragupta (#2) would need a die roll of 0–6 
to gain Momentum; a 7, 8, or 9 would Finish him.
(5.33) The Dieroll of Doom. If the Momentum die roll is a ‘9’, then 
the die is immediately rolled again. 
1.	If the second die roll is a ‘0’ or ‘1’, Re-Activation is possible. Play 
immediately transfers to the opposing player who may activate any 
one of his leaders, regardless of whether they are Finished or not! 
Such a Re-Activated leader may not use Momentum himself.
2.	If the second die roll is a ‘2–8’ the leader attempting Momentum 
is Finished. Go Back to Phase “A.”
3.	If the second die roll is a ‘9’ the leader has had a Crisis of Faith 
(or “Second Thoughts”). All friendly combat units within one-half 
his range, rounded up, must Withdraw two hexes, even if they 
are in an enemy ZOC. Withdrawing units observe the require-
ments of 6.63[1] and [3]. The leader also Withdraws and is now 
Finished. 
(5.34) Momentum die rolls apply only to a leader who has just com-
pleted an Orders Phase. You may not apply Momentum to a leader 
who was Finished several phases ago or who was Reactivated, as 
per 5.33[1]. 
(5.4) THE TRUMP OPTION
DESIGN NOTE: This is a game mechanic that is intended to simulate 
the effect of superiority in the area of command. As such, it is likely 
to be used by the player with better leaders (such as Ashoka). The 
“inferior” player will often find that, for him, its best application is 
when it backfires on his opponent. For that reason, players should 
be aware that this option should not be used indiscriminately. 
Prior to each leader’s activation, both players are given one option 
to trump that leader’s activation.
(5.41) Active Player Trump Option. The Active player may, in-
stead of activating his lowest-rated leader, attempt to activate any 
of his other, inactive leaders with a higher Initiative rating. To do 
this, the player must roll the latter’s Initiative rating or less on the 
die. If successful, that leader is now activated; if unsuccessful, the 
originally designated leader is activated and the one who is attempt-
ing the Trump is Finished.
EXAMPLE: In Magadha, the Mauryan player, instead of activating 
Vairodhaka could attempt to activate Parvataka by Trumping. If he 
rolled a 0–5 he would be successful; a 6–9 and the Trump attempt 
fails, Vairodhaka is activated and Parvataka is Finished.
(5.42) Inactive Player Trump Options. The opposing player has 
two Trump options, each usable under different circumstances:
1.	Trumping the Trump. If—and only if—the Active player is 
successful with his trump (5.41) the opposing player then has the 
option of attempting to trump that first trump activation with his 
own leader—if that leader has an equal or higher Initiative rating. 
If successful this leader is immediately activated and the Trumped 
leader is Finished; if unsuccessful the initial trump-activated leader 
goes and the leader attempting the trump is Finished. 
 
EXAMPLE: Using the leaders in 5.41, the Mauryan player is suc-
cessful in activating Parvataka instead of Vairodhaka. The Nandan 
Player now attempts to trump-the-trump by rolling for Bhadrasala 
(Initiative=5). However, he rolls a ‘7’, so Parvataka remains the 
activated leader and Bhadrasala is Finished for the turn.
2.	Momentum Trump. If the active player is successful attempting 
a Momentum die roll, the opposing player may attempt to trump in 
the same fashion as Trumping the Trump, above. 
EXAMPLE: Still following the above examples, the Mauryan player 
is successful in his attempt to undergo a Momentum Orders Phase 
with Vairodhaka. The Nandan Player attempts to trump Vairodhaka’s 
Momentum Phase with Sahalya (Initiative=4). He rolls a ‘3’ and, 
instead of Vairodhaka going, it is now Sahalya’s Orders Phase—and 
Vairodhaka is Finished. 
After the successfully Trumping leader has finished his set of Or-
ders, play reverts back to the standard, lowest-available-leader-goes 
procedure ... with one major exception, as per 5.44.
(5.43) Each side is allowed only one Trump attempt per leader 
activation.
(5.44) A leader who fails a Trump attempt, or has been Trumped 
when trying for Momentum, is Finished. An inactive leader who 
is passed over by a successful Trump—a Bypassed leader—is still 
eligible for activation (he’ll probably still be next in line as the 
lowest-rated leader), but he may not use Momentum that turn. Use 
the “Trumped / No Momentum” markers to indicate this. There are, 
thus, two basic premises:
•	 A Trumped leader is Finished.
•	 A Bypassed leader (one who had the same or lower Initiative 
rating as a leader who successfully Trumped) is still eligible to 
“go”, but he may not use Momentum. 
EXAMPLE: Still following the examples above, note that Vairodhaka 
could only have made the Momentum attempt if Parvataka had failed 
his Trump attempt, otherwise Vairodhaka would have been Bypassed 
and thus denied the Momentum opportunity.
PLAY NOTE: The No-Momentum restriction means that if Ambhi 
attempted to gain Momentum and did so, but was then Trumped by 
Chandragupta, not only would Ambhi be Finished, but all remain-
ing Greek (and Mauryan) leaders who had yet to go would get only 
one Phase (after Chandragupta completed his turns). They could 
not attempt Momentum! This is an important consideration when 
one is formulating game tactics. 
(5.45) A leader may be activated only once per game turn, although 
that activation may be extended by Momentum (5.44 and 5.33 are 
exceptions). Finished leaders may not be activated again that game 
turn, except by Re-Activation (5.33[1]).
(5.46) A leader that successfully Trumps cannot pass. He must 
issue an order to a unit to move or missile fire or he must use his 
Command Range to have units Shock attack. A unit is considered 
to have moved for the purpose of this rule if it ends the phase in a 
hex different from the one in which it started.
(5.47) A leader that is in an enemy ZOC may attempt to Trump. 
However, if successful, he must obey 5.46, otherwise the trumping 
action is considered to have never occurred.

(6.0) MOVEMENT
(6.1) MOVEMENT ALLOWANCES
DESIGN NOTE: Movement Allowances simulate not only the time it 
takes a unit to move from point ‘a’ to point ‘b’ but also its maneuver-
ability relative to other, different-type units as well as the tactical 
doctrines applied to deploying those units. 
(6.11) A combat unit’s printed Movement Allowance is the basic 
allowance for a single Order. A combat unit receiving an Order 
may move up to its printed MA. Most units may move less than 
the printed MA.
(6.12) There is no limit to the number of times a combat unit may 
move in a single game turn; however; it may move only once per 
Orders Phase. Note that changing facing is considered movement.
(6.13) After the first time a unit moves in a turn, flip it to its “Moved” 
side. “Moved” units may use their full MA. However, each time a 
“Moved” unit is moved, it earns a Cohesion Hit (see 11.1). This 
Hit penalty does not apply to Orderly Withdrawal (6.6) or Advance 
After Combat (9.2).
PLAY NOTE: Thus, a combined Infantry-Elephant line ordered by 
Chandragupta to move in Chandragupta’s first Orders phase may 
move again; but, to do so, it must wait for an order from either a 
different leader or from Chandragupta in a subsequent, Momentum 
Phase. 
(6.14) Leaders may move any number of times in a turn or Orders 
Phase, but they may not exceed their MA per phase; see 4.23. All 
other restrictions and allowances apply, including the ability of 
leaders to use Orderly Withdrawal before any opposing unit. Each 
different time a leader moves requires an order. Leaders have no 
facing and do not pay any cost to change facing.
(6.15) Tribal Chiefs have a movement allowance of 6 MA per phase; 
all other leader types have the standard 9-point MA. 
DESIGN NOTE: Tribal leaders are apt to have moved by foot, along 
with their horde, thus the lower MA for Tribal Leaders.
(6.16) An Indian (only) leader that begins the game stacked with 
an Elephant or Chariot unit is considered to be either mounted atop 
an Elephant or riding a Chariot, respectively, for the duration of 
the game. The leader’s “mode of conveyance” is used to determine 
which hexes/hexsides a leader can enter/cross with the exception 
that Leaders may always enter any hex within a city or camp. All 
such leaders have a movement allowance of 9, regardless of their 
“conveyance.”
PLAY NOTE: Leader conveyance also has a specific impact on 
Indian Charisma and Rout/Rally (see 9.17[3] and 11.23). 
(6.2) TERRAIN
There is always a cost in Movement Points to enter/cross each type 
of terrain. In addition, there may be a possible Cohesion Hit penalty 
to do so, depending on the unit and/or terrain type.
(6.21) A unit expends Movement Points for each hex it enters and 
for some hex sides crossed. Most units also pay extra Movement 
Points to move into a hex of different elevation. Units also pay 
movement point costs (and possible cohesion penalties) to change 
facing; see 7.1.
 
 
(6.22) A unit may incur Cohesion Hits whenever it changes elevation 
or enters certain kinds of terrain. Some units may also incur Cohesion 
Hits for changing facing. All Hits due to movement (including all 
advances after combat) and facing changes are applied the instant 
they occur. Leaders never incur cohesion hits. 
(6.23) There are limitations on the levels of elevation that may be 
changed at any one time:
1.	Cavalry and Chariots may never change more than one elevation 
level at a time; i.e., they may not move directly from a level-1 
hex to a level-3 hex (treated as a “Steep Slope”), or vice versa. 
2.	Only Skirmishers (SK) and Tribal LI may change three levels 
in any one hex move (with a concurrent 3-point cohesion pen-
alty).
(6.24) The term “Rough” terrain, used throughout, applies to any 
non-Clear hex outside a City, Camp, or Stronghold. 
(6.25) A hex containing two types of terrain uses the “majority” 
terrain. Thus hex 1716 in Khashas is a level-4 Clear hex, although 
there is some level-5 in the hex.
(6.26) A moving unit must have enough MPs to pay the terrain cost 
of entering a hex; if it doesn’t, it cannot enter that hex. 
(6.27) Terrain also affects shock combat results by adjusting the 
column under which the players roll to determine losses, as per 
the Shock Combat Results Table. Units in Forest also gain some 
protection from enemy Missile fire; see (8.17).
(6.28) Camps and Cities. Camp and City terrain are treated with 
considerably more detail than in most other games in the series. See 
sections 12.1 and 12.2, respectively. 
(6.29) The Movement Costs Chart. This chart gives the Movement 
and Cohesion Penalty costs for each type of unit moving (or chang-
ing facing in) into/across a specific type of terrain. 
(6.3) MOVEMENT PROCEDURES
(6.31) As a unit moves, it traces a path of contiguous hexes through 
the hex grid, paying the cost of each hex entered. One unit’s move-
ment must be completed before another can begin, even if both 
started in the same hex. 
(6.32) A unit may be moved in any direction or combination of 
directions. However, a unit may only enter a hex that is to its front. 
In order for a unit to change direction it must first change facing 
(7.1) by pivoting in the hex it occupies.
(6.33) Double-sized units do not change facing within a hex; they 
do so by pivoting as per 6.43. Double-sized units incur an extra 
cost when pivoting.
(6.34) Forest movement. Due to their size and training (even in 
peace time elephants worked in forests) Indian Elephant units do not 
automatically suffer a 1-point Cohesion Hit when entering a Forest 
hex if they are moving at a slow pace.
Before moving the Elephant unit, the player must declare his in-
tention to avoid the Forest Cohesion Hits. The Elephant may then 
expend no more than one-half or less (rounded down) of its printed 
Movement Allowance and does not incur any Cohesion Hits for 
entering the Forest hex(es). This restriction applies for that Orders 
Phase. All other cohesion penalties apply.

(6.4) DOUBLE-SIZED UNITS
HISTORICAL/DESIGN NOTE: The double-sized units reflect forma-
tion and tactical use, as exemplified by the Macedonian Phalanx 
although not all double-sized units are Phalanxes in the game sense, 
nor are Phalanxes in the game ‘Macedonians’ per se. At its height 
during Alexander, the Phalanx system was still potent when deployed 
by Seleucus and Eudamus against Chandragupta.
(6.41) There are two Types of double-sized units, Phalanxes and 
Hoplite Heavy Infantry. Because of the nature of the geometric shape 
of the counters, these units have some special rules. 
(6.42) When a double-sized unit moves and enters two hexes of 
different terrain/elevation it expends the greater of the two possible 
terrain costs both for movement and cohesion. Whenever either half 
of the unit would incur a Cohesion Hit because of the terrain entered 
then the entire unit suffers the effects. 
(6.43) Front-to-Flank Maneuver. A double-sized unit can either 
go forward with both halves of the unit entering new hexes, or one 
half of the unit can enter a hex while the other half pivots in the 
space it occupies, in essence changing the facing of the unit. This 
is also called Pivoting. For each hex entered while undertaking this 
Front-to-Flank maneuver, the unit incurs one (1) Cohesion Hit, in 
addition to any other terrain-induced costs.
(6.44) The Reverse-Face Maneuver. At a cost of 3 MP, a double-
sized unit may be re-faced in the opposite direction (180o) in the 
same two hexes. There is no cohesion penalty for this maneuver, 
but it may not be performed if any part of the unit is in an enemy 
ZOC or in Rough terrain.
(6.45) The Wheeling Maneuver. If one side of a double-sized 
unit is in an enemy ZOC the other side may still move forward in 
essence, using front-to-flank, as per 6.43. However, because of the 
difficulty in performing such a wheeling maneuver, the unit incurs 
the one Front-to-Flank Cohesion Hit and then, after completing the 
pivot (even in an advance after combat), the player performs a TQ 
check. If the die roll is higher than the TQ, the unit takes Cohesion 
Hits equal to the difference, with a minimum penalty of 1 additional 
Hit, regardless of die roll.
EXAMPLE: (Takshashila) A Mauryan unit is in 2807. A Greek 
mercenary Hoplite HI unit is in 2707/2708, with the part that is in 
2707 in the Mauryan ZOC. That Hoplite may pivot 2708 to 2808 
(while the 2707 portion remains in place), paying 1 Hit for pivot-
ing plus whatever movement costs apply. The Hoplite (with a TQ 
of ‘6’) then undergoes a TQ check. If the die roll were an ‘8’, it 
would take two Hits.
 
 
 
(6.46) Augmented Movement. The following movement capability 
is available only to Phalanxes. Because of their lighter armor and 
better training, the Phalanxes could move somewhat faster than their 
(double-sized) Hoplite counterparts—although this added rapidity 
sometimes created cohesion problems. Therefore, the Greek player 
may increase his phalangite MA to ‘5’ in any Movement order. If he 
does so the first time the unit moves in a turn, the unit must undergo 
a TQ check at the end of the increased movement. If the die roll is 
greater than the Phalanx’s TQ, the unit incurs one Hit. If a “Moved” 
Phalanx uses its 5 MA in any subsequent move it incurs two (2) 
Cohesion Hits (as opposed to the one Hit if it uses its MA of 4).
HISTORICAL NOTE: The armies of the “Yavana”—the Indian’s 
term for the Greek (“Ionian”) invaders—were not “Greek” per se. 
They used the Macedonian Phalanx system perfected by Alexander 
the Great, and were a mix of Macedonians, Greeks, and mercenar-
ies recruited from the Hellenic Near East to Bactria (including 
Indians).
(6.5) COLUMN MOVEMENT
DESIGN NOTE: On the battlefield, formed combat units moved in a 
battle formation that would, in later centuries, be called a “Line.” 
They were capable, however, of using much looser, more mobile 
formation (in modern terms, “Column”) for more rapid movement. 
Because the units in this “column” formation were not in an extended 
line that constantly needed dressing to be effective, the effects of 
movement upon a unit’s “cohesion” were not as drastic.
 
(6.51) On being given a move order, a combat unit that is not in an 
enemy ZOC may change to (or from) “Column” at the conclusion 
of its movement. There is no cost in Movement Points to change 
formation. In order for a unit to use Column Movement it must 
start the Orders Phase In Column. Use the “In Column” markers to 
indicate this status. A unit may not change into Column if such a 
change would cause the unit to rout (see 6.55 below).
Exception: Skirmishers (SK), Tribal LI, and Routed units may not 
use Column Movement.
(6.52) Column Benefits. Foot (only) units In Column increase their 
MA by one. Terrain Cohesion Hit costs for any unit In Column are 
decreased by one (–1) to a minimum of ‘0’. 
EXAMPLE: Normally a unit would incur two Cohesion Hits for 
moving across a River into a Forest hex; In Column it incurs only 
one Hit.
PLAY NOTE: Phalanxes use the higher of their two MAs, so their 
In Column MA would be ‘6’.

(6.53) Column Facing. Units In Column must face the hexside 
(not the vertex) and only the hex directly in front of them is frontal. 
The change in facing is effected when the change to (or from) In 
Column status is announced. 
Double-Sized Units: 
Single-sized Units: 
 
When changing formation from column to normal for double-sized 
units, the unit is not moved in any way. Thus, a Phalanx that is 
In Column that changes to normal is now facing in the direction 
indicated by the “top” (name) of the counter. The unit may only be 
moved/refaced during a subsequent Orders Phase.
When changing formation from In Column to normal for single-sized 
units, adjust the unit 30 degrees to the left or right (your choice) so 
that it faces a vertex. 
(6.54) Column Movement Procedure. Column units move into 
either their frontal hex or the flank hexes adjacent to the frontal hex. 
Movement into the frontal-flank hex is not considered a change of 
facing. In Column units wishing to move into a rear-flank hex, for 
example, must change facing. Double-sized units may not change 
facing in place; they may only move. All flank/rear combat penal-
ties apply. 
(6.55) Combat Penalty. Units In Column have their TQ ratings 
temporarily reduced by two (–2). Units In Column may not Shock 
attack or fire missiles. The only thing they do is move. If Shock at-
tacked by an enemy unit, the attacking unit is automatically Attack 
Superior, regardless of Position or Weapon system. 
(6.56) If an In Column unit is Shock attacked, at the conclusion of 
that Orders Phase the unit automatically goes back to its noncol-
umn formation (i.e. remove the In Column marker) at the cost of 
one additional Cohesion Hit—even if that hit were to cause it to 
Rout . Double-size units don’t reface, but single-size units must be 
adjusted 30 degrees to the left or right (owner’s choice) so that it 
faces a vertex.
(6.57) Column Restrictions. In Column units may not use Orderly 
Withdrawal (6.6) or be part of a Combined Line (4.33). 
(6.6) ORDERLY WITHDRAWAL
Orderly Withdrawal is a form of retreat carried out during the Move-
ment Segment, in the face of an approaching enemy, in which “light-
er” but faster and more maneuverable units can avoid getting crushed. 
 
DESIGN/PLAY NOTE: Orderly Withdrawal (OW) is an extremely 
valuable maneuver, particularly for units facing heavier-but-slower 
attackers (e.g. elephants or Phalanxes). Therefore, we have gone 
to great lengths to explain this rule; the extended example at the 
end should help clarify any (unintended) opaqueness. See 4.82 for 
OW rules for Leaders. 
(6.61) During an enemy Movement/Missile Segment, any friendly 
(unrouted) combat unit that is not in an enemy ZOC (7.2) may 
avoid contact with an enemy unit (even a Rampaging elephant—and 
that applies to friendly Cavalry/Chariots about to be trampled by a 
friendly elephant; see 10.14) the instant it moves within two hexes 
of the friendly, “defending” unit—or if it starts movement two hexes 
distant—as long as the “defending” unit has a higher movement 
allowance than the attacking combat unit. 
(6.62) To undertake OW, the defending unit withdraws up to a 
number of Movement Points (not hexes) equal to the difference 
between the units’ Movement Allowances away from the advanc-
ing unit. Withdrawal must occur the instant the enemy unit moves 
into the two-hex range (stop moving the enemy unit temporarily), 
or the option is lost. Regardless of how many hexes they may actu-
ally move, double-sized units use their ‘4’ MA for purposes of MA 
comparisons for Orderly Withdrawal. See also 6.57.
Exception #1: Skirmishers may Orderly Withdraw up to two hexes 
before any units whose MA is the same or less (i.e., all foot units), 
regardless of the MA differential.
Exception #2: Chariots may Orderly Withdraw 1 MP before an El-
ephant unit even though they have the same Movement Allowance. 
 
EXAMPLE #1: an EL unit (MA of ‘7’) approached by a Phalanx (MA 
of ‘4’) may Withdraw up to three Clear hexes (7–4 = 3 MP).
EXAMPLE #2: A Bhrta LI unit with an MA of ‘5’ may not Withdraw 
up-level when approached by double-sized HI (MA of ‘4’), because 
it would cost the LI 2 MPs to so move—and it is only allowed a 1 
MP withdrawal.
PLAY NOTE: Yes, it says within two hexes, so any (eligible) friendly 
unit can withdraw if an enemy moves within two hexes—even if that 
unit doesn’t actually move in his direction. Thus the friendly player 
must make his decision to withdraw before the moving enemy makes 
his full intentions clear!
(6.63) The withdrawing unit maintains its original facing throughout 
withdrawal at no “facing change” cost in Cohesion Hits or Move-
ment Points. It does, however, pay any of the usual movement and 
cohesion costs for movement. At the completion of withdrawal, if 
it changes facing it pays any cohesion penalties inherent in such 
change. There are three (possible) additional penalty situations:
1.	Withdrawing foot units and Chariots receive an immediate and 
automatic one (1) Cohesion Hit after moving. Withdrawing 
Skirmishers, Cavalry and Elephants do not suffer this automatic 
penalty.
2.	If the withdrawing unit was being approached from a rear or flank 
hex it incurs one (1) Cohesion Hit before withdrawing. This is 
cumulative with #1.

Exception: The penalty applies to Skirmishers only when ap-
proached from the rear—not their flank. 
3.	At the conclusion of the withdrawal, a withdrawing unit (includ-
ing the units excepted in #1) must undergo an immediate TQ 
check. If the die roll is higher than the TQ the unit receives one 
(1) Cohesion Hit. 
HISTORICAL/PLAY NOTE: Orderly Withdrawal is a “retreat’ in 
the face of an approaching enemy, long before that enemy can close. 
This is why the withdrawing unit can return to the original facing 
(with minimum cohesion cost) it had before the enemy approached. 
In play/game terms, you simply move the counter backwards. 
(6.64) If a withdrawing unit reaches its TQ Rating in Cohesion hits 
it Routs; see 11.21.
(6.65) A unit may withdraw an unlimited number of times during a 
game turn. The 6.63 penalties apply each time, however. 
(6.66) A unit may not withdraw into an enemy ZOC or a Rough 
hex, and a withdrawing missile unit may not fire as it withdraws. 
Stacking restrictions (6.7) apply during withdrawal. 
Exception: Cavalry and Chariot mounted archers may fire as they 
withdraw. The range is always treated as two (2) hexes and they 
use the +1 die roll modification for firing while moving (to account 
for the haste). A withdrawing Cavalry/Chariot unit is limited to one 
missile fire per triggering unit per Orders Phase.
(6.67) Orderly Withdrawal takes place during the opposing player’s 
Movement/Missile Segment—a unit may not withdraw in the Shock 
Combat Segment. The moving unit may continue to complete its 
movement in the face of such withdrawal. 
Exception: Cavalry/Chariot OW in the face of rampaging elephants 
may take place at any time.
(6.68) Cavalry Line Withdrawal. An entire Line of Cavalry as al-
lowed by 4.33 and the Line Command Eligibility Chart may have 
all its units withdraw at the same time. Standard OW rules apply, 
but here, if an enemy approaches, the entire Line may withdraw. 
All units in the Line must withdraw; the player may NOT pick and 
choose. Once a single unit in the line uses an individual OW, the 
line is NOT eligible for Line Withdrawal.
(6.7) STACKING
Stacking refers to having more than one unit in a hex at any one time, 
whether during movement or at the completion of movement. There 
are two principles involved in the Stacking rules: Voluntary Move-
ment, which means combat units moving under Orders or Orderly 
Withdrawal; and Mandatory Movement, which is Rout movement. 
See 11.21–11.24 for Rout movement. 
(6.71) The basic rule is: one combat unit per hex. One half of a dou-
ble-sized combat unit counts as one unit. Leaders and informational 
markers do not count for stacking purposes; a hex can contain any 
number of leaders/markers. There are three exceptions to this rule: 
 
1.	Indian Tribal LI units—more horde than “formation”—may stack 
two per hex if they are of the same tribe (see 6.73 below). 
2.	Greek Skirmisher units, trained in avoidance and dispersal tactics, 
have certain advantages over other units in this area, namely in 
terms of moving into/through other friendly units.
3.	An Artillery unit may be stacked with any single-hex infantry 
unit. There may never be more than one Artillery unit in a hex.
(6.72) A unit may never move into or through a hex containing an 
enemy unit. 
Exception: See Elephant and Chariot Pass-Through, 10.13 and 10.26. 
(6.73) Indian Tribal LI units may voluntarily stack together if they are 
of the same tribe at the cost of +2 MPs in addition to cost of entering 
the hex. No more than two Tribal LI may be stacked together in a 
hex. Stacking occurs at the end of movement only.
Exception: There is no stacking in City or Stronghold hexes.
PLAY NOTE: In other words, the units may not move together as 
a stack. This means that if you want to keep two Tribal LI stacked 
after movement, one of the two units must move and stop (become 
the “stationary” unit), and the following unit must then move into 
the hex (the “moving” unit) and pay the +2 MP.
DESIGN NOTE: Why? Remember, the Tribals were not trained or 
disciplined to move or fight together as coherent formations. This 
aspect of the Tribal LI stacking rule reflects the inevitable jostling 
and “traffic jams” that would occur.
(6.74) It takes two Individual Orders to move two Tribal LI units 
stacked in the same hex. The stacking order (who’s on top) of two 
Tribal LI units in the same hex be switched only by an Individual 
Order; it may NOT be part of movement. If the player desires to move 
only one unit from a stack, only the TOP unit may move. A Tribal 
unit moving into a hex to stack is always placed on the bottom. 
(6.75) Both Tribal units stacked in a hex must have the same facing. 
If one unit has to change facing to do this, it must (and pay cohesion 
costs to do so). This does not apply to a unit passing through an oc-
cupied hex, nor does it apply to Artillery stacked with a foot unit.
(6.76) Stacking has the following effects on combat:
1.	Stacked Tribal units combine Size when using Shock.
2.	Only the top unit in a Tribal stack may fire; Artillery and any 
stacked foot may both fire.
3.	Enemy Fire affects only the top Tribal unit in a stack, unless the 
fire is through the rear hexes, in which case it affects only the 
Tribal bottom unit. Enemy fire always affects the foot unit when 
stacked with Artillery.
4.	For Tribal units, Shock Hits are distributed per 11.12, with the 
“odd” hit going to the top Tribal unit unless the attack is from 
rear, in which case the “odd” goes to the bottom unit. All Shock 
Hits are applied to the foot unit when stacked with an Artillery 
unit. 
5.	If the top Tribal unit Routs, so does the bottom. If the bottom unit 
Routs, the top unit undergoes a TQ Check and Routs if the die 
roll is greater than the unit’s TQ. If the foot unit stacked with an 
Artillery unit Routs, the Artillery unit is eliminated. If the Artil-
lery Routs, the stacked foot undergoes a TQ check and Routs if 
the die roll is greater than its TQ. 
(6.77) Combat units may enter a hex containing only a leader—and 
vice versa—at no movement or cohesion cost. A combat unit stacked 
with a leader may use Orderly Withdraw (6.6) together, or the leader 
may withdraw (4.82) and the combat unit remains. If they withdraw 
together, they must stay together. 
(6.78) The restrictions, allowances, and penalties for stacking are 
all given in the two Stacking Charts. The actual chart used depends 
on the type of movement—Voluntary or Mandatory (see above)—
being undertaken by the moving unit. The following premises and 
terms are used:

Basic: All units other than Greek Skirmishers, HI or PH infantry, 
or Indian Tribal LI of the same tribe. Tribal LI of different tribes 
use the Basic line.
Tribal LI: If the unit involved is a stack of two Tribal LI of the same 
Tribe, the “Basic” line is used.
PH or HI Infantry: If either the moving or stationary unit(s) are 
Greek Phalanx or Heavy Infantry, voluntary stacking is prohibited. 
Exception: Skirmishers may move through a PH/HI unit.
PLAY NOTE: If you are reading the rules for the first time, we 
strongly suggest you take a look at this important chart. 
The chart lists what type of unit is moving. However, the effects 
apply to both moving and stationary units, unless otherwise speci-
fied.
(7.0) FACING AND ZONES OF 
CONTROL
(7.1) FACING
(7.11) All combat units—except those In Column; see 6.5—must 
be faced in a hex so that the top of the unit (the side with its name) 
faces into the vertex of the hex (between two hexsides, as below). 
The two hexes to the front (3 for double-sized units) are called the 
Front hexes; those to the side, the Flank, and those behind, the Rear. 
A unit may only move into a hex to its front. Facing does not apply 
to Leaders or Artillery units.
Single-sized Units: 
Double-Sized Units:
 
(7.12) In order for a single-hex combat unit to change its facing it 
must pivot within its hex. It costs one Movement Point for each 
vertex shifted. See 7.25.
Exception #1: Skirmisher units pay 1 MP regardless of the number 
of vertices changed.
Exception #2: Elephants, Heavy Chariots, and Cataphracted Heavy 
Cavalry pay two (2) MPs per vertex to change facing ... reflecting 
the difficulty these units had in maneuvering effectively. In addi-
tion, see 7.15. 
Exception #3: Elephant Chariots (elCH) pay three (3) MPs per 
vertex (see Kalinga scenario special rule).
(7.13) Double-sized units do not “change facing”; they can only 
change the direction in which they are facing by moving (and pay-
ing any costs for so moving) one side of the counter forward, thus 
pivoting the counter (see 6.4). 
(7.14) As changing facing is “movement”, any such change in a 
Rough terrain hex incurs one (1) Cohesion Hit for changing fac-
ing. 
Exception: Tribal LI and Skirmishers do not pay the Rough terrain 
penalty.
(7.15) Chariots may not change more than one vertex in any given 
hex while moving. They may change more than one vertex in a hex 
(with appropriate costs), as long as that hex is either the hex in which 
the Chariot starts or finishes.
DESIGN NOTE: Chariots were unwieldy in terms of maneuver, 
mostly because they operated with fixed axles.
(7.16) Reaction Facing Change. Any single-sized unit (not double-
sized units) may change facing one vertex per Orders Phase when an 
enemy unit moves adjacent to it. It may not do so if it either began 
the Movement/Missile segment in an enemy ZOC or is in a ZOC 
of another enemy unit at that instant. After changing facing, the 
owning player rolls the die. If the DR is higher than the unit’s TQ, 
apply the difference (DR–unit’s TQ) as Hits to the reacting unit. If 
the reacting unit doesn’t Rout, it may conduct Entry Reaction Fire 
if eligible (see 8.21).
Exception: Cavalry changing facing in reaction to infantry move-
ment do not have to make the TQ check.
(7.2) ZONES OF CONTROL (ZOC) 
ZOCs are those hexes, other than the hex occupied, over which 
units exert a control, forcing enemy units to cease movement and 
to precipitate combat.
(7.21) Depending on their Type, all combat units exert a Zone of 
Control:
•	 Skirmishers exert a ZOC into their front and flank hexes—except 
when out of missiles (Missile No), in which case they exert a ZOC 
only into their front hexes.
•	 All other combat units exert a Zone of Control only into their 
front hexes. 
•	 Routed units, Artillery units, and leaders do not exert ZOCs. 
(7.22) ZOCs do not extend into a hex into which movement is 
prohibited. 
(7.23) Stops Movement. A unit must cease movement the instant 
it enters an enemy ZOC. A unit that begins movement in an enemy 
ZOC can move out of the enemy ZOC only if:
1.	It is a combat unit that can receive an order to move, has at least 
one unoccupied front hex, and the unit’s Movement Allowance 
is greater than the MA of the enemy unit exerting that ZOC. For 
this purpose, Phalanxes use their extended MA of ‘5’; OR,
2.	The unit is the Overall Commander issuing an Individual Order 
to himself; OR,
3.	The unit is a leader who has been issued two Individual Orders 
by the OC.

(7.24) ZOC to ZOC Movement. A unit leaving an enemy ZOC 
may immediately enter another enemy ZOC but would then cease 
movement again. Units leaving a Missile unit’s ZOC are subject to 
Retire Reaction Fire (8.22).
(7.25) ZOCs and Facing. A unit that begins the Movement Seg-
ment in the ZOC of an enemy unit may use up to one half its MA 
(rounded up) in facing changes if:
•	 It is in the ZOC of only one enemy combat unit, and
•	 It does not move out of that hex that Phase.
A unit that changes facing in this manner may not use 7.23 #1 to 
leave that ZOC. See also 9.22.
(7.26) If opposing units extend a ZOC into the same hex they are 
both considered to “control” that hex.
(7.3) SHOCK REQUIREMENTS
The requirement that a combat must attack an enemy unit usually 
depends both on unit Type as well as whether it moved or not, Shock 
being a question of inertia more than weaponry.
(7.31) Must Shock. In the Shock Combat Segment, all combat units 
marked with an plus sign (+) on the Shock Superiority Chart—units 
whose Shock capabilities depend mostly on “mass x inertia”—that 
moved during the current Orders Phase must undertake a Shock 
Attack against all enemy units in their ZOC. 
(7.32) May Choose to Shock.
1.	All other “light” units—no plus (+) sign—that moved may choose 
to undertake Shock.
2.	Any unit issued Fire (only) orders, or a unit that changed facing 
per 7.25, or those simply within the activated Leader’s command 
range, may choose to attack all enemy combat units in their ZOCs. 
See the introduction to 9.1.
(7.33) Procedure. The moving player places a “SHOCK—Must 
Check TQ” marker on top of each unit that must Shock attack in 
the ensuing Shock segment, as per 7.31, or that moved and chose 
to Shock attack, as per 7.32[1]. “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” 
markers are placed the instant the moving unit moves adjacent 
and delineate which units will have to undergo a pre-Shock TQ 
check, as per 9.14. 
(7.34) Non-moving units, as per 7.32[2] are given a ‘SHOCK—No 
TQ Check” marker, to indicate they are going to Shock attack but do 
not have to check for pre-Shock TQ. Use this marker also for units 
who do not have to check for Shock; cf. 9.14, et al.
(7.35) Only those units with “SHOCK” markers may Shock attack, 
and such delineations must be made before the end of the Shock 
Designation Segment, although units which moved in the current 
Orders phase will already have “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” mark-
ers on them.
EXAMPLE: A Mauryan elephant unit that moves adjacent to a 
chariot (CH) unit has a “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” marker placed 
on top of it because it has to attack, as per 7.31. A Mauryan LI unit 
moving adjacent to a Greek HI unit does not have to shock attack 
(7.32[1]); however, the moving player must state his decision on 
whether or not to do so as it finishes movement. If he wishes it to at-
tack, he must place a “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” marker on top.
(8.0) MISSILE COMBAT 
(8.1) MISSILE VOLLEY
HISTORICAL/DESIGN NOTE: Professional foot soldiers (i.e. 
Maula and Bhrta) were known to carry large bows which when 
strung were up to 72” in length. Though somewhat unwieldy (they 
had to be anchored against the foot to be drawn), these bows packed 
quite a punch, as Alexander discovered in Hydaspes. The long bow, 
denoted as ‘A*’ (‘A’ with an asterisk) in this game, will be recognized 
by players of Deluxe GBA.
(8.11) Units with missile capability (see sample units) may use Mis-
sile Fire. There are four types of missile units in Chandragupta: Bow 
(A), Long Bow (A*), Slingers (S), and Javelinists (J); see, also, Artil-
lery (10.5). When given an order an individual missile unit can fire 
at any time before, after, during—or instead of—forward movement. 
However, each unit may fire only once per Orders Phase, although 
the firing of the missile does not cost any Movement Points. 
Exception: Long Bow (A*) units may not move and fire in the same 
Orders Phase (though they may move then engage in Reaction Fire). 
Long Bow units may change facing and still fire. 
EXAMPLE: A mounted archer may move four hexes forward, fire 
at an enemy unit two hexes distant, and then use its remaining MPs 
to ride away. A Mauryan LI archer with Long Bow (denoted with 
asterisk, A*), on the other hand, may move OR fire in a given Orders 
phase, but may not do both.
(8.12) Virtually all Fire takes place in the Movement and Fire Seg-
ment, although there may be Reaction Fire by the non-phasing player 
in the Shock Combat Segment.
Missile Fire may occur:
•	 As an Order or Line Command, or
•	 As Reaction Fire, or
•	 During Withdrawal (Cavalry/Chariot archers only; see exception 
to 6.66).
Missile units must fire individually; they may not combine fire.
PLAY NOTE: Cavalry/Chariot archers are the only units that may 
fire while moving “backwards.” Why? Try throwing a javelin while 
back-pedaling.
(8.13) A Missile unit may fire (volley) at any single target that is 
within its Missile Range and to which it can trace a Line of Sight 
(8:14). A unit’s Missile Range extends through its front hexes, with 
the following exceptions:
•	 For Skirmisher (SK) units, Missile Range extends through its 
front and/or flank hexes;
•	 For Chariot units, Missile Range extends through any of its hexes, 
front, flank, or rear.
 
(8.14) A missile unit can shoot a missile volley only at an enemy 
target unit to which it has an unobstructed Line Of Sight (LOS). A 
LOS is calculated by tracing a path between the center of missile 
unit’s hex to the center of the target unit’s hex, through the hexes of 
the firing unit’s Missile Range arc (see 8.13 above). LOS is blocked 
by Forest, most City/Camp terrain, Strongholds, and combat units, 
unless they are in hexes at a lower elevation than the firer and the 
target. LOS is also blocked by a hex on an elevation level higher 
than both firer and target. 

(8.15) If the firing unit and target unit are on different levels, the 
basic premises are:
•	 If firing unit is higher than target, LOS is blocked when blocking 
terrain is closer to target;
•	 If firing unit is lower than target, LOS is blocked when blocking 
terrain is closer to firer.
Exactly “halfway” is treated as blocking. 
(8.16) If the LOS is blocked, missiles may not be fired. 
Exception: Missile units may always fire into adjacent hexes
PLAY NOTE: Missile LOS should be interpreted strictly. If the LOS 
goes down a hexside between blocking/non-blocking, consider it 
blocked.
(8.17) The Missile Range and Results Chart is used to determine 
the effect of Missile volleys. For each volley, a die is rolled. If the 
die roll is equal to or less than the strength of the missile unit at that 
range, then the target unit receives one (1) Cohesion Hit (but see 
the adjustments below). 
The following die roll adjustments are made:
•	 Movement: If the missile unit is any type other than foot javelin 
and it moved/will move, add one (+1) to the die roll.
•	 Terrain: If the target unit is in a Forest hex, add one (+1) to the 
die roll. For Camp and City terrain effects (including Strongholds), 
see those charts 12.12 and 12.21.
•	 Firing and Target Types:
	 1. When Long Bow (A*) archers, javelin, or slingers are firing 
upon Cataphracted (“Cat”) Cavalry or Elephants, Heavy Chariot 
(CH*) or Elephant Chariot (elCH) targets, add one (+1) to the die 
	 2. When Bow (A) archers are firing upon Cataphracted (“Cat”) 
Cavalry or Elephants, Heavy Chariot (CH*) or Elephant Chariot 
(elCH) targets, add two (+2) to the die roll. 
	 3. If the target is Heavy Infantry (HI) or a Phalanx (PH), add one 
(+1) to the die roll (this represents the heavier armor protection 
of such units). This does not apply to fire from Long Bow (A*) 
archers.
	 4. If the target is Heavy Infantry (HI) or Phalanx (PH), and a 
slinger or an archer unit is firing at a range of one hex (adjacent) 
through the frontal hexsides of the infantry, add three (+3) to the 
die roll. This does not apply to javelins or artillery. This modifier 
is not cumulative with #3 above.
HISTORICAL NOTE: This represents the fact that missiles were 
most effective against the formidable shield-wall and body armor 
of the Hoplites when firing “from above” into the body of troops; 
at close range, they could not do that. 
	 5. If the target unit is a Skirmisher (SK), add two (+2) to the die 
	 6. If the target is an Elephant, it receives two (2) Cohesion Hits 
for every successful missile volley. 
All combat effects from Missile Fire are immediate and occur before 
any other unit is moved. 
EXAMPLE: A Mauryan LI Archer (A*) unit is two hexes distant 
from a Nanda Cataphracted Elephant unit. At a range of ‘2’, the 
Mauryans’ long bow Missile Strength is “6”. The Mauryan player 
volleys against the Nanda Elephant, rolling a ‘2’. He adds one to the 
die roll (because the Elephant is cataphracted), making the adjusted 
roll a ‘3’. The Elephant takes two Cohesion Hits. If he had rolled a 
‘6’, on the other hand, the volley would have had no effect. If he had 
rolled a ‘9’, it would have had no effect and he would have had to 
place a MISSILE LOW marker (see 8.19) on the Mauryan Archer. 
(8.18) When a missile unit fires at a target unit on a lower eleva-
tion, its range is increased by one hex. When firing at that Extended 
Range, a die roll of ‘0’ is required for a hit. 
EXAMPLE: A Sreni LI Archer of the Elephant Trainers’ Guild, with 
a normal maximum range of ‘4’ (Foot Archer), is in Kalinga West 
map hex 3412, could fire at an enemy unit five hexes away in 2913. 
However, it would need a natural die roll of ‘0’ to hit. 
(8.19) Missile Supply. Missile Units may keep firing until they run 
out of Missiles. Each different missile type has its own availability 
levels:
1.	Archers and slingers become Missile Low whenever there is a 
die roll of ‘9’ when firing, at which point place a “Missile Low” 
marker on it, indicating it has one volley remaining. This includes 
Elephant Screen archers (denoted with lower case and javelin, 
‘J/a’), who have their own Missile Low counters. See 10.11 and 
10.12. 
2.	Javelinists become Missile Low whenever there is a die roll of ‘7, 
8 or 9’ when resolving any Missile Fire, at which point place a 
“Missile Low” marker on it, indicating it has one volley remain-
ing. 

3.	If any “Missile Low” unit fires flip the marker over to its “Missile 
No” side to indicate there are no missiles left to fire. 
4.	Artillery units never run out of Missiles.
5.	Any javelin-armed unit that is involved in Shock Combat is au-
tomatically Missile NO on completion of the Shock combat.
DESIGN NOTE: Players may notice that the Indian Long Bows (A*) 
in Chandragupta are not given the javelinists’ missile availability, 
as were their Indian LI Archer “predecessors” in Great Battles of 
Alexander. The sources are fairly clear that these archers carried 
two quivers of arrows. They also likely did not have as high a rate 
of fire, which would offset some of the missile depletion.
(8.110) A missile unit may Reload during the Reload Segment of the 
Rout and Recovery Phase, bringing it up to full missile capability. 
Any friendly “Missile Low” or “Missile No” unit that is 
•	 Not in an enemy ZOC, and
•	 Not within Missile Fire Range (and LOS) of an enemy unit (who 
is not Missile No)
may Reload in the Reload Segment of the Rout and Recovery Phase 
by removing any Missile Low/No markers. 
(8.111) If a leader is in a hex that has been fired upon and the Missile 
Fire die roll was a ‘0’ (before modifiers), there is a possibility that 
the leader has been hit. See 9.15 for resolution.
(8.2) REACTION FIRE
Inactive Missile units may fire in reaction to certain enemy move-
ments into (Entry Reaction) and out of (Retire Reaction) their 
ZOCs, and against enemy units that use Missile Fire against them 
(Return Fire). 
(8.21) Entry Reaction. Whenever a friendly unit enters the ZOC of 
an enemy missile-capable unit, including Advance After Combat, 
that missile unit may immediately fire at the entering unit (range is 
one hex) before the moving unit’s Missile Fire occurs. All effects 
from this Missile Fire occur immediately. When using Line Com-
mands, all movement is completed before Entry Fire takes place.
Exception: Rampaging Elephants do NOT draw Reaction Fire (of 
any kind).
(8.22) Retire Reaction. Whenever an unrouted unit leaves the ZOC 
of an enemy missile unit, that missile unit, if it has a fire range of two 
or more hexes, may fire at the moving unit prior to its leaving the 
ZOC. Any results are applied before the unit moves. Retire Reaction 
Fire is always resolved at a range of two (2) hexes.
(8.23) Return Fire. Any non-phasing unit may Missile Fire “back” 
at an enemy unit that has fired at it. The target of Return Fire must 
be within range and LOS. The phasing unit’s fire is resolved before 
the return fire; they are not simultaneous. The non-phasing player 
cannot use both Entry Reaction and Return Fire at the same unit.
(8.24) Reaction Fire does not require an order. A unit may perform 
Reaction Fire any number of times during enemy movement, as long 
as it is has missiles available.
(9.0) SHOCK COMBAT
DESIGN NOTE: This section is the heart of the game, and thus we 
have gone to great lengths to explain how it works. It is longer and 
more detailed than other sections and may, at first glance, appear 
somewhat daunting. Take heart: in practice/play, most of the me-
chanics become self-evident and, after a few trial runs, the resolution 
of Shock will become second nature. 
PLAY NOTE: The Shock system relies on the interaction of the units’ 
weapon types, armor protection, size, angle of attack and quality 
(TQ) to produce a single result. While no factor is unimportant, the 
rating to pay closest attention to is the TQ, for that rating deter-
mines the ability of a unit to withstand the rigors of shield-to-shield 
ancient warfare.
(9.1) SHOCK COMBAT PROCEDURE
Shock Combat takes place in the Shock Combat Segment. Shock 
is part of a leader’s Orders Phase, and all Shock created by that 
leader is resolved before the next leader may be activated (or Mo-
mentum attempted). All units with a ‘Shock’ marker—see 7.33 and 
7.34—must Shock Attack.
Important Note: Each Shock combat is conducted as a series of steps 
performed in order for all units participating in Shock combat—
before the next step of Shock combat is conducted. See 9.13 for the 
sequence of steps. We suggest undertaking each separate step from 
left to right, across the map. Players may use any system they wish 
to note what has happened up-and-down the lines of attack. 
DESIGN NOTE: It would be easier to resolve each separate combat 
as one “piece”. However, to do so creates a “blitzkrieg” type of 
effect, wherein the attacker gets to choose which attacks he wants to 
do first so that he can achieve “breakthroughs”. Despite its simplic-
ity, this would be so far from reality as to render the system—and 
the game—inaccurate. However, isolated shocks can certainly be 
resolved as a piece, if doing so would not affect other attacks. The 
method you choose should keep this intent in mind. 
(9.11) Shock Designation Segment. This is used to place 
“SHOCK—No Check” markers on non-moving units that Choose 
to Shock as per 7.34. 
(9.12) The Basic Pre-Shock Procedure. Units that attack by Shock 
must attack all units in their ZOCs, unless that defending unit is 
being attacked by another, friendly unit in that Shock Combat Seg-
ment. The attacker determines which units will be involved in each, 
individual combat resolution, within the restrictions that follow: 
1.	A friendly unit may attack more than one unit, as long as the 
targeted defenders are all in the attacking unit’s ZOC.
2.	An attacking unit (even a two-hex unit) may not split its attack 
capabilities, although two (or more) units may combine to attack 
one defender. 
3.	If more than one unit is defending and/or attacking, total the Sizes. 
4.	Each unit may attack only once per Shock Combat Segment.
5.	A defending unit may be Shock attacked only once per Shock 
Combat Segment. 
Other than the above restrictions, the attacking player may divide 
his attacks amongst his units as he sees fit.

 
EXAMPLE #1: (Gandhara) A two-hex Greek Hoplite unit in 
2710/2711 faces a Mauryan Cataphracted Elephant unit (Maula 
class) in 2611 and a Tribal Javelinist LI from the Vasati tribe in 
hex 2612. It must attack both defending units as one unit; the Mau-
ryan player uses his Elephant unit to determine Superiority—here, 
none. 
EXAMPLE #2: Same as above, except a Greek Hypaspist is in 2712 
and capable of attacking the Tribal LI in 2612. The Greek Hoplite 
can now engage only the Mauryan Elephants, while the Hypaspists 
beat up on the poor Tribals. Or, unless the Hypaspists had a “Must 
Shock” marker, they could sit this one out while Hoplites took care of 
everyone. While the former will produce better results, the latter may 
be necessary if the Hypaspists are close to their TQ limit in hits.
EXAMPLE #3: A Bactrian Heavy Cavalry unit in 2838 is “charging” 
a Tribal LI (Pottala tribe) in 2737. Unfortunately for the Pottalas, 
there is also an Arachosian LC contingent in 2638. The Greek player 
may either combine the two Cavalry units in the attack, or have the 
HC attack and the LC sit by and watch. 
(9.13) An Overview of the Shock Combat Resolution Proce-
dure. Sections 9.14 through 9.19 are descriptions of the sequence 
and procedure used to resolve Shock Combat. Each step must be 
completed for all units involved before proceeding to the next step. 
While extensive in narrative terms, players will soon realize that 
these steps are:
1.	Charge: “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” marked units and their 
defenders check TQ to see if troops will attack in an ordered 
manner [9.14]
2.	Check for any Leader casualties [9.15]
3.	Resolve the Shock
	 a. Use Clash of Spears Chart to determine what column on the 
Shock Combat Results Table will be used [9.16]
	 b. Determine Weapon and Position Superiority [9.17 #1]
	 c. Determine Size Ratio Difference [9.17 #2]
	 d. Determine whether terrain and/or leaders will have any effect, 
then resolve the Shock using Shock Combat Results Table [9.17 
#3]
	 e. Apply results from the Shock CRT [9.17 #4]
	 f. Push of Shields/Breakthrough [9.18]
4.	Check for Collapse [9.19]
(9.14) The Charge. All units with a “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” 
marker and their intended targets undergo a Pre-Shock TQ check 
by rolling the die for each unit, all such checks being simultane-
ous. If any of the attackers “Must Check,” then the defender(s) 
must check.
Exceptions: The following units are NOT required to make the 
Pre-Shock TQ Check:
•	 If all defenders are Routed, or are all Skirmisher (SK) units, the 
attackers need not make a TQ check. The intended targets still 
do, however (and remember, Routed units have a TQ of 1). 
•	 Defending Phalanxes (PH) and Heavy Infantry (HI) that are at-
tacked frontally by Light Infantry (LI). 
•	 Attacking Chariots with “SHOCK—Must Check TQ” markers 
(note that their defenders must undergo a TQ check; see be-
low). 
Attacking units with ‘SHOCK—No Check” markers and their 
defenders do not undergo this TQ check. 
The Pre-Shock TQ Check is resolved as follows:
1.	If the die roll is higher than a unit’s TQ, it takes a number of 
Cohesion Hits equal to the difference between the die roll result 
and its TQ.
2.	If the defender has taken sufficient Cohesion Hits to be equal to 
or greater than its TQ Rating it immediately Routs (see 11.21) and 
the attacking unit advances into the vacated hex (where it may 
change its facing one vertex, if desired, if it is not in the ZOC of 
another enemy unit). See 9.2 for the effects on the advance.
3.	If the attacker Routs from its TQ check, the defender stays put (if 
not Routed).
4.	If both units would Rout from their TQ checks, defender retreats 
as per Rout rules, but attacker stays in place (although he is still 
routed).	

The following units have their Pre-Shock TQ check die roll adjusted: 
•	 If the attacker is an Elephant, add one (+1) to the defender’s die 
•	 If the attacker is a Chariot that moved four (4) or more hexes 
during the Movement Phase, add one (+1) to the defender’s die 
•	 If a Phalanx or Heavy Infantry unit is attacked by a Chariot, 
subtract one (–1) from the defender’s die roll.
After the TQ check, if the attacker and the defender did not rout, 
go to the next step.
(9.15) Leader Casualties. Casualties to Leaders are determined 
prior to resolving the actual Shock. If either or both sides has a 
leader stacked with one of the units involved in combat the player 
rolls the die for each such leader. If the die roll is a ‘0’ the leader 
has been Wounded. The player then rolls a second time; if that die 
roll is greater than the leader’s Initiative Rating, the leader has been 
Killed instead.
•	 If a leader is Wounded, he is immediately Finished. For the re-
mainder of the game, subtract one (–1) from all numeric ratings 
(i.e. there is no effect on the leader’s Line Command ability), to 
a minimum of ‘0’. See 9.45.
•	 If Killed, time to settle those Karmic accounts ... our hero is now 
dead, to be reborn another day. Dead leaders are immediately 
removed from play and are not replaced. A leader who has been 
Killed as part of Shock combat has a negative effect on that 
combat; see 9.17[3].
(9.16) The Clash of Spears and Swords. The Clash of Spears and 
Swords Chart is now consulted to determine under which Shock CRT 
column the battle will occur (prior to any adjustments):
•	 If there is more than one type of defending unit, the defender 
chooses which type will be used for determination.
•	 If there is more than one type of attacking unit, the attacker de-
termines the Type he will use. If a unit is being attacked through 
the vertex between different facings, that defender gets the benefit 
of the most advantageous facing.
Clarification: In cases where a player has more than one unit is 
involved, the player picks the unit (not Type) that will be used in the 
determination. This choice determines the angle of attack.
EXAMPLE #1: A Greek HI Hypaspist is attacking two units at 
once, one Elephant (EL) through its flank, and one Light Infantry 
(LI) frontally. The defender gets to choose the unit type; here he 
chooses the Elephant, even though it is being attacked through its 
flank. Why? Firstly, using the Clash of Spears Chart, we will see 
that using the EL produces a ‘8’ CRT column, while the LI would 
allow attacker to use the ‘9’ column. And, regardless of whom the 
defender chose, the attacker has Attack Superiority (either because of 
type-heavy infantry vs. light infantry—or angle of attack—attacking 
the elephant through its flank).
 
EXAMPLE #2: A Mauryan elephant unit is attacked by two Nanda 
units—one Medium Infantry (MI) from the front, and one Lancer 
(LN) through the rear. The Nanda player would use the LN attack-
ing EL from the rear to gain the more advantageous column “10” 
versus the MI’s “3”. However the Lancer, since it is a Cavalry unit, 
does not gain Position Superiority against the Elephant (see 9.17 
exception #2 below). 
(9.17) The Hand-to-hand Struggle. Players now determine the effect 
of any advantages either side has and then resolve the shock combat: 
1. Determine Superiority: There are two (2) “types” of Superiority: 
•	 POSITION SUPERIORITY: Results when one side’s angle/posi-
tion of attack is from the flank or rear.
•	 WEAPON SYSTEM SUPERIORITY: The weapons system and 
armor/protection of one side is so superior to the other that it will 
result in a marked increase in “losses” to the inferior side.
Either one side or the other may (but not must) gain Position or 
Weapons Superiority, either as: Attack Superior (AS; the most 
common), or Defense Superior (DS). Players determine Superior-
ity using the Shock Superiority Chart. In many instances there is 
no Superiority.
Superiority is determined as follows:
A.If a friendly unit is attacking an enemy through its flank or rear it 
is considered Attack Superior to the defender. If a single unit is 
attacking two defending units, the defender chooses which unit to 
use for Position determination. However, if the attacker is attack-
ing with more than one unit, and such attack is coming from more 
than one “angle”, the attacker chooses the angle of attack most 
advantageous to him. In either case, whichever unit the attacker 
or defender uses to determine Position Superiority must also be 
used to determine the Shock Column on the Clash of Spears and 
Swords Chart, as per 9.16. 
	 Exception #1: An attacking unit does not gain Position Superiority 
if it’s in the ZOC of any other enemy unit, and that enemy unit is 
not being attacked by a different friendly unit.
	 Exception #2: Elephants, Cavalry and Chariots never achieve 
Position Superiority over Elephants; see 10.15.
B.If no Position Superiority is attained, the opposing units check 
their weapon class relationship (see the Shock Superiority Chart, 
9.42) to determine if either weapon system is superior (either AS 
or DS) to the other. If more than one unit type is involved on any 
one side the players chose which of their units to determine Shock 
column on the Clash of Spears Chart. 

PLAY NOTE: Many different types of permutations and combina-
tions are possible, in terms of unit types and multiple attack angles. 
The two precepts above should cover virtually all of these possibili-
ties. If they don’t, try to attain a result that best fits in with the general 
principles. If that doesn’t work, try casting the OC’s horoscope.
2. Determine Size Ratio Difference: Players now compare the 
relative difference in size between attacker and defender. 
Size Ratio Difference (SRD) is expressed as a simple ratio. For 
example, two units with Size Rating of 5 each (a total of 10) at-
tacking one unit with a Size of 5, would have a two-to-one (2:1) 
size ratio difference; a single unit with a Size Rating of 3 attacking 
three units with a combined Size of 12 would have a negative SRD 
of one-to-four (1:4). 
For each level of Size Ratio Difference (SRD) greater than one-to-
one (1:1), the Shock Results Table is adjusted by one Column. The 
attacker adjusts to the right, the defender to the left. 
EXAMPLE: Continuing with the example above, the 2:1 attack 
would result in a one-column shift to the right—an advantage to the 
attackers. Meanwhile, the 1:4 attack would result in a three column 
shift to the left ... a definite advantage to the defenders.
Reduce all size ratios to a #:1 (or 1:#) expression, rounding off as 
follows:
If any attacker moved to affect the shock, round off in favor of 
the attacker! Thus a 5 Size unit attacking a 4 Size unit is 2:1, a 4:5 
becomes 1:1.
If no attacker moved, round off in favor of the defender. Thus a 5 Size 
unit attacking a 4 Size unit would be 1:1, while 4:5 becomes 1:2. 
Exception: In any Shock combat involving either Elephants vs. 
non-Elephants, Chariots vs. non-Chariots, and/or Skirmishers vs. 
Chariots, Size is not taken into consideration; there is no SRD. 
However, in Elephant vs. Elephant, or Chariot vs. Chariot, size IS 
taken into consideration. 
EXAMPLE: Attacking at 10 vs. 5 (or 2:1 odds) adjusts the Shock 
Table one column to the right. Likewise, a moving attack at 5:3 also 
produces a one column adjustment to the right, but if the attacker 
did not move, there would be no adjustment.
DESIGN NOTE: The “rounding off” rules reflect the advantage of 
“momentum.”
3. Adjust Columns and Resolve: To resolve the Shock Combat, the 
attacker consults the Shock Combat Results Table, determines the 
“base” column and adjusts that column for any Size Ratio Differ-
ence, Unit Type, and Terrain effects. All adjustments are cumulative, 
except where noted.
a.	Size Ratio Difference: If applicable, the Shock Results Table 
is adjusted, attacker to the right and the defender to the left, as 
determined by SRD (#2 above).
b.	Terrain Adjustments: Use best position available to defender. 
•	 If all defenders are in Forest hexes, shift one column to the left 
(1L).
•	 If all attackers are attacking across a River hexside, shift two 
columns to the left (2L).
•	 If any defender is on a higher terrain level than the attacker(s), 
shift one column to the left (1L).
•	 If all defenders are on a higher terrain level than the attacker(s), 
shift two columns to the left (2L). This is not cumulative with the 
preceding modifier.
•	 If any defenders are in a Stronghold hex, shift two columns to the 
left (2L).
•	 If all defenders are on a lower terrain level than the attacker(s), 
shift one column to the right (1R). 
•	 City and Camp Shifts (see 11.12 and 11.22).
c.	Unit Adjustments:
•	 If any of the attackers are Cataphracted Cavalry (Cat HC), Cata-
phracted Elephants (Cat EL), Heavy Chariot (CH*), or Elephant 
Chariot (elCH), shift two columns to the right (2R). 
•	 If any of the defenders are Cataphracted Cavalry (Cat HC), Cata-
phracted Elephants (Cat EL), Heavy Chariot (CH*), or Elephant 
Chariot (elCH), shift two columns to the left (2L).
•	 For each supporting Phalanx when a Phalanx is attacked frontally 
by moving enemy unit, shift two columns to the left (2L).
The attacking player then rolls the die, modifying the die roll by 
the Charisma Rating of any one leader (of the player’s own choice) 
stacked with the units of either side as follows:
•	 For example, if Chandragupta were leading the attackers and 
Bhadrasala the defenders, the net die roll adjustment would be 
+1 (Chandra’s 5 minus Bhadrasala’s 4). 
•	 If a leader has been killed, as per 9.15, that side suffers a reverse 
die roll adjustment equal to that leader’s Charisma Rating. 
EXAMPLE: Vairodhaka is killed while leading an attack. The attack-
er will subtract ‘2’ from the die roll (Vairodhaka’s ‘2’ Charisma). 
Indian Charisma: When resolving Shock involving an Indian 
Overall Commander (OC), a special variant of the above Charisma 
rules apply. If the OC is stacked with a Maula unit, the OC’s Cha-
risma applies to that unit and all adjacent Maula units. If the OC is 
being conveyed atop an Elephant (EL) unit (see 6.16), his Charisma 
is applied to the stacked Maula unit and all adjacent units regard-
less of Class.
HISTORICAL/DESIGN NOTE: This is a variant on the “Heroic 
Charisma” rules found in other game in the series. The office of 
the king was as much an inspiration to “greater efforts” by Indian 
troops—particularly the “hereditary” Maula class—as was the king 
himself. This status was enhanced by the ultimate symbol of royal 
prestige and power ... the king atop his elephant.
4. Apply Results. Results on the Shock CRT are Cohesion “hits” for 
both attacker and defender. The # in parentheses is for the defender. 
If the attacker was superior (AS) then double the defender’s result. 
If the defender was superior (DS), then triple the attacker’s result. If 
more than one unit (of the same player) was involved in that combat, 
cohesion hits are distributed as per 11.12.
(9.18) The Push of Shields/Breakthrough. After the shock has been 
resolved, each unit that has accumulated three or more times cohe-
sion hits than any individual enemy unit in that combat takes two 
additional cohesion hits If more than one unit on a side is involved, 
treat each unit individually, and, in such instance, if one unit has ‘0’ 
hits, treat as if it had ‘1’.
Clarification: A unit’s total accumulated hits is used in the 
determination, not just the hits incurred in that Shock combat. 

EXAMPLE: An attacking Mauryan Elephant has 1 Hit, while two 
defending Kalinga Bhrta Light Infantry units have accumulated 2 
and 4 Hits, respectively. The LI with 4 Hits is given another 2 Hits 
for Breakthrough and, thus, routs (the 6 hits exceed his TQ of ‘5’). 
The other Kalingan unit is unaffected. 
(9.19) The Collapse. All units that have Cohesion Hits equal to or 
greater than their TQ automatically Rout (11.2); then:
1.	Units that are within one Cohesion Hit of automatic Rout and in 
an enemy ZOC must roll the die. If this die roll is less than their 
TQ, reduce the unit’s Cohesion Hits by one; otherwise, the unit 
routs.
2.	Attacking units must advance into any vacated hex (see 9.2).
Exception: Double-sized units that Stand (10.64) do not 
make this check. Likewise, units that stand in place in-
stead of routing, as indicated in special scenario rules (e.g. 
Guild Rout in “Revolt in the Provinces” and Strongholds 
in “Suppression of the Khashas”), do not make this check. 
(9.2) ADVANCE AFTER COMBAT
(9.21) Attacking units must advance into any hex vacated by enemy 
units as a result of Shock (only), including Pre-Shock TQ check 
rout. This does not require an Order, but the advancing unit incurs 
all Cohesion Hits engendered by such a move (e.g. Reaction Fire, 
8.21). If the advance would Rout the moving unit, it still advances 
but does not Rout; it retains a number of Cohesion Hits equal to 
its TQ minus 1.
Exception: Units that cause an enemy to vacate a hex because of 
Pre-Shock TQ check (not the actual shock) and are in an enemy 
ZOC at the time may not advance. 
(9.22) Advancing single-hex units may change their facing one 
vertex upon finishing the advance, even if they are in an enemy 
ZOC. This is an exception to 7.25. 
(9.23) Advancing Phalanxes may change the direction in which 
they are facing only if they can move, as per 6.43 (and remember 
7.14). An advancing Phalanx may combine straight-ahead advance 
with a Wheeling Maneuver, if opportunity for such presents itself—
as long as it pays all cohesion costs inherent in such advance. 
 
(9.24) If there was more than one attacking unit, the unit that had 
Superiority (if any) must advance. If no such unit, the one with the 
highest TQ must advance. Tie? Player chooses. 
(9.25) There is no advance after Missile Fire alone, regardless of 
what the target unit does.
(9.3) HARASSMENT and DISPERSAL (H&D) 
TACTICS
(9.31) Missile-armed Light Cavalry (LC) and Javelin or Slinger 
armed Light Infantry/Skirmishes units may use H&D tactics against 
any enemy unit that has a lower Movement Allowance. H&D com-
prises a unit’s entire action for that turn. Skirmisher units cannot be 
targets of H&D, nor may foot Archers use H&D. 
Exceptions: Light Cavalry may use it against Cataphracted Cavalry 
even though their Movement Allowance is not lower. Phalanx units 
use the higher of the two Movement Allowances when determining 
eligibility. 
(9.32) Light Infantry (LI) and Skirmisher (SK) wishing to use H&D 
must start within two (2) hexes (but not adjacent to) the target unit. 
Light Cavalry (LC) must start within four (4) hexes (but not adjacent 
to) the target unit.
(9.33) Units using H&D may not start in an enemy ZOC, and they 
must be able to trace a path of hexes clear of enemy units and their 
ZOC unless that ZOC is adjacent to the target. The path may not be 
traced through friendly units, a Rough terrain hex, or across a Rough 
terrain hexside. It may cross a stream, but not any type of river.
PLAY NOTE: Incurring Cohesion Hits for movement does not ap-
ply here.
(9.34) Procedure. If the unit satisfies the above, it may fire its mis-
siles against the enemy target without moving. The procedure is:
1. Note which unit is using H&D.
2.	Note the target, as per above.
3.	Fire the missiles as if they were being fired at one-hex range (this 
is a moving attack).
4.	The target may use Entry Reaction Fire against the firing unit. 
Treat all fire as simultaneous. 
5.	All of this occurs without moving the firing unit.
DESIGN NOTE: Well, it is moving (to the target and then back to 
whence it came). We just eliminated the counter-fiddling.
(9.35) Light Cavalry may use H&D against Elephants, however, the 
restrictions in 10.15 apply. Therefore, H&D attacks are not allowed 
through an Elephant’s Front hex. Greek Cavalry conducting H&D 
through an Elephant’s flank/rear hex earn two Cohesion Hits which 
are applied prior to any Missile Fire.
 
(9.4) THE COMBAT TABLES
All of these tables are printed on the Player Aid Cards.
(9.41) The Missile Range and Result Chart. This table is used to 
determine the strength of a missile unit firing at a given range.
(9.42) The Shock Superiority Chart. This chart is used to 
compare the superiority (if any) of one type of unit com-
pared to another, depending on which side is attacking or 
defending. Always read down the column from the attacker’s 
point of view. Superiority is used to augment Cohesion Hits. 
 
(9.43) Clash of Spears and Swords Chart. This chart is used to 
determine which Column will be used on the Shock Combat Results 
Table (subject to adjustments).
(9.44) Shock Combat Results Table. This Table is used to resolve 
shock combat in terms of Cohesion “hits” to both attacker and 
defender. See 11.11.
(9.45) Leader Casualty Chart. This is used to determine the se-
verity of casualties to leaders from Missile Fire and being involved 
in Shock.

(10.0) SPECIAL UNITS
The special unit types all perform like other combat units, except 
for the rules given below.
(10.1) WAR ELEPHANTS (Hasti)
HISTORICAL NOTE: The crème-de-la-crème of Indian military. 
Considered terrible, wild beasts in Vedic era (1500–600 BC), there 
was no mention of their use in war until they were domesticated 
in post-Vedic times. By the time of Alexander they were the most 
important arm of the military, and everywhere there was an implicit 
faith in their military effectiveness. “The victory of kings in battles,” 
remarks Kautilya, “depends mainly upon elephants.” Often cata-
phracted and employing towers for both archers and javelinists, 
hundreds of the pachyderms were deployed to the battlefield. Those 
bred in the southeast—such as Kalinga—were said to be among the 
best of the beasts.
(10.11) Elephant Screens. Elephants were quite vulnerable to mis-
sile attacks, and to protect against this each elephant was surrounded 
with its own light screen of skirmishers, usually archers (represented 
by the small “a” on the counter). Elephant Screens have the ability 
to fire arrows—but as Entry Reaction Fire only—using the special 
section on the Missile Chart for Elephant screen (they also have 
their own missile supply markers). They may not fire as part of an 
Order. The firepower is much less than normal archer units, to ac-
count for the size of the screen and its tactical use. Elephants are not 
treated as Skirmishers; the screen is part of the elephant counter. In 
addition, because of their screens, elephants can be Missile Low/
No on either or both javelins and/or arrows. Use the appropriate 
marker to so indicate.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Warriors in the Indian elephant corps were 
known to be armed with both javelin and bow. Though the use of 
elephant “screens” is not explicitly mentioned in the sources, they 
were probably used. Consider the Bow designation in this case to 
also encompass a small elephant screen. 
 
(10.12) Warriors atop elephants were armed with javelins (with 
elephant screen, “J/a”) or with a combination of Javelin and Bow 
(“J/A”). Treat EL as Mounted Javelins for Missile Range purposes. 
As Entry Reaction Fire, an elephant unit may both throw Javelins and 
fire its arrows (either “a” as screen per 10.11 above or as Bow “A”). 
However, the player rolls separately for each such Missile Fire.
GAME NOTE: Due to counter mix limitations we aren’t able to 
provide separate “Elephant A” Missile Low/No markers. Players 
therefore may use the “Screen Low/No” markers to keep track of 
their tuskers’ Bow ‘A’ ammo supply.
PLAY NOTE: Elephants with Bow (“A”), unlike elephant “screens” 
(“a”), are not restricted to Entry Reaction Fire only.
While inside a city, an Elephant unit may not Missile Fire when 
activated. An Elephant unit inside a city may use Reaction Fire.
DESIGN NOTE: The narrow streets limited the ability to use their 
missile offensively.
(10.13) Pass-Through Attacks. After completing their Shock com-
bat, if the Elephant unit has not Rampaged (10.14) and the defending 
unit is still in place, the attacking Elephant is placed in one of the 
defender’s vacant Rear hexes, maintaining its attack facing. Thus, 
an Elephant in 3022 (Pataliputra map) attacking into 2921 would 
end up in either 2821 or 2822. If there are units occupying both 
rear hexes, the elephant unit immediately shock attacks the unit(s) 
in one of those hexes. 
PLAY NOTE: If an elephant fails to “dislodge” a second-row de-
fender, it would still be placed behind those “second-row” units. 
Essentially, the elephant keeps on attacking each occupied row, until 
it passes through to an unoccupied rear hex.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Why is there no “Pass-through Avoidance” 
for the Indians? Simply put, their infantry, valued mainly for its 
numbers and missile fire, was not trained to perform such organized 
antics in the heat of battle (it probably would have been deemed 
unmanly, anyway). The sources mention nothing whatsoever of such 
maneuvers. Apparently, neither had the “Yavana” yet developed the 
tactic (as seen in SPQR).
(10.14) Rampaging Elephants. Any time an Elephant unit incurs 
enough hits that would produce a Rout, the Elephant instead of 
routing, goes on a Rampage, charging anyone in sight. Each time 
an Elephant unit Routs, the owning player rolls one die and follows 
the instructions below:
	 0: the Elephant heads in the direction of the nearest friendly 
unit.
	 1–6: the Elephant heads in the direction indicated on the Com-
pass on the map, an example of which is given below. Note that 
geographical direction is represented at the vertex; the direction 
in which the elephant is to rampage is by hexside.
	 7–9: the Elephant’s mahout has been successful in stopping the 
rampage by driving a wedge into the beast’s brain; the unit is 
Elephant Rampage is always resolved immediately, before any other 
game mechanic is addressed... except for Orderly Withdrawal in face 
of the rampaging elephant (6.61).
EXAMPLE: The above diagram shows the elephant unit (originally 
heading N) refaced and now heading N/NE, after a Rampage die 
roll of “1”. This is just an example; use the compass on the map 
for each battle.
A Rampaging elephant always attempts to move three (3) hexes per 
directional die roll in the indicated direction (as per Rout Movement, 
11.22) until it either moves off the map or is otherwise eliminated, 
as below. If a rampaging Elephant unit would enter a hex occupied 
by a unit—whether it be friend or foe—the elephant stops in the 
adjacent hex and the “target” unit(s) takes
•	 One (1) Cohesion Hit (each) if the elephant would have entered 
frontally, or 
•	 Two (2) Cohesion Hits (each) if it would have entered from the 
flank or rear.

Regardless of angle of rampage, Cavalry and Chariots always take 
two (2) Hits when so attacked.
If there is a Leader in the hex (alone or stacked with a unit), and he 
cannot withdraw, he is tragically impaled on the elephant’s tusks, 
tossed high in the air, and then crushed to death under its feet. All 
that without a die roll!
The player now rolls again, as above, repeating the process until
1.	the Elephant exits the map,
2.	the Elephant is eliminated (7–9 mahout die roll),
3.	the Elephant is at least eight (8) hexes from the nearest unit, in 
which case it is eliminated, or
4.	if none of the above, after the 4th consecutive Rampage die roll, 
the Elephant is eliminated.
Rampaging elephants have no ZOC, and they may not be rallied. 
Each “Rampage” is undertaken until its conclusion, so there may 
never be more than one rampaging Elephant at any one time. And 
remember that Cavalry/Chariot withdrawal can take place at any 
time (see exception in 6.67).
PLAY NOTE: When an elephant rampages, play stops dead and the 
Rampage is resolved before anything else occurs.
DESIGN NOTE: Historically, the mahouts were trained to use “the 
wedge” on any berserk elephants. With each counter representing 
5–6 elephants, the rule represents the 1 or 2 elephants they could 
not dispatch immediately.
(10.15) Cavalry and Chariot units may never voluntarily move into 
the ZOC of an enemy Elephant unit. Indian Cavalry (including Indian 
units in the Greek armies) and Chariots may move into or through 
an Elephant’s flank or rear hexes with no penalty; non-Indian (i.e. 
Greek/Macedonian) Cavalry units, however, do so at the cost of 
two Cohesion Hits for each such hex entered. Cavalry and Chari-
ots may never Shock attack enemy Elephants through the latter’s 
frontal hexes; they may Shock attack through the Elephants’ flank 
or rear hexes, but they do not gain the usual Attack Superiority for 
such position attack.
HISTORICAL NOTE: This reflects Indian horses’ exposure to 
elephants and the training of Indian cavalry with the ubiquitous 
elephant corps, an advantage the Greeks did not enjoy (horses 
generally dislike elephants intensely). 
(10.16) If an Elephant moves adjacent to an enemy Cavalry or 
Chariot unit, that unit must attempt Orderly Withdrawal, if possible. 
If they cannot so withdraw, they undergo an immediate TQ check. 
If the die roll is higher than the unit’s TQ, it takes Cohesion Hits 
equal to the difference between its TQ and the die roll. If the unit is 
non-Indian, the minimal result (even if the die roll is less than the 
TQ) is one (1) Cohesion Hit. If the Cavalry is already Routed, it is 
automatically eliminated without any Hits for the Elephant (other 
than those earned through movement).
(10.17) TQ Check Modifier. Whenever an Elephant is Shock at-
tacking and a TQ check is required, any defending unit adds one 
(+1) to its TQ Check die roll. There is no TQ Check die roll for 
Rampaging elephant attacks.
(10.18) Cataphracted Elephants. These units have special combat 
modifiers as noted in sections 8.17 and 9.44.
(10.19) Elephant Rampage Table. See Charts and Tables.
(10.2) CHARIOTS
DESIGN NOTE: Though by this time abandoned by Western armies, 
many Indian kingdoms still favored the chariot, and the Mauryans 
maintained them at considerable expense. The war chariots in the 
Mauryan era had grown quite large—four-wheeled affairs, drawn 
by at least four horses. The “heavy” variety carried up to six war-
riors (two shield-bearers, two archers, and two drivers/javelin-
ists). Because of their fixed axles and lack of suspension they were 
notoriously difficult to maneuver and had a tendency to tip over if 
turned too sharply—a weakness mitigated (well, somewhat) by the 
multi-axle models. 
Two types of Chariots are used in Chandragupta, the lighter “stan-
dard” two-wheeled variety (CH), and a larger multiple-axle (and 
cataphracted) model. The latter are designated “heavy” for game 
purposes, denoted by the asterisk on the counter (CH*).
(10.21) Chariots operate under the following movement and terrain 
restrictions. Chariots may change facing only one vertex per hex if 
moving. Chariots earn Cohesion Hits for entering certain types of 
terrain per the Movement Costs chart. Furthermore, Chariots may not 
move up or down more than one level in any one Orders Phase.
(10.22) Chariots may use Orderly Withdrawal, but they incur one 
Cohesion Hit each time they withdraw. 
(10.23) TQ Check Modifiers. Chariots do not make a Pre-Shock 
TQ check when they “Must Shock”. Any unit attacked by a Chariot 
unit has one (+1) added to its pre-Shock TQ Check if the attacking 
Chariot has moved four (4) or more hexes during the Movement 
Phase. All Phalanx or Heavy Infantry units have one (–1) subtracted 
from their Pre-Shock TQ Check when attacked by Chariots. 
(10.24) Routed Chariots are immediately removed from the game—
 
 
(10.25) Heavy Chariots (CH*). These units have special combat 
modifiers as noted in sections 8.17 and 9.44.
(10.26) Pass-Through Attacks. After completing their Shock 
combat (but see 10.24), if the defending unit is still in place, the 
attacking chariot unit is placed in one of the defender’s vacant 
Rear hexes, maintaining its attack facing. If units occupy both rear 
hexes, the chariot must immediately shock attack the unit(s) in one 
of those hexes if able to do so. If not, the attacking chariot remains 
in its hex. 
(10.27) Pass-Through Avoidance. If a Greek unit is about to be 
attacked through a front hexside (only) by Chariots, prior to resolv-
ing that Shock, the Greek player rolls the die and compares it to the 
unit’s TQ. If the die roll is higher, normal Shock takes place. If the 
die roll is the same as or lower than the TQ, the defending units 
have parted ranks, and the Chariots have passed-through (as per 
10.26) without causing any harm, other than an automatic, one (1) 
Cohesion Hit for the defending unit (the penalty it pays for disrupt-
ing its formation).
If both rear hexes are occupied, the Greek Player rolls for both units, 
as above. If both “pass,” the Chariots keep on going through. If one 
fails, the Chariot attacks, as per 10.26.

HISTORICAL NOTE: From Alexander’s experience with the Persian 
chariots a generation earlier, Macedonian/Greek infantry trained to 
avoid their headlong charge by simply breaking ranks and letting 
the onrushing chariots pass through. 
PLAY NOTE: Pass-Through Avoidance cannot be used by Indian 
units in Greek armies.
(10.28) Chariot Dismount. Indian Chariots may dismount as foot 
in the Movement/Missile Segment if located inside a camp or Tak-
shashila. Dismounting costs the entire unit’s Movement Allowance 
and cannot be done in an enemy ZOC. Flip the counter to its reverse, 
foot side. The unit may be faced in any direction.
Dismounting is a permanent action—once dismounted, CH may 
never “re-mount.”
(10.3) SKIRMISHERS
(10.31) Javelin- or slinger-armed Skirmishers (SK) may use H&D 
tactics against any enemy unit that has a lower Movement Allow-
ance. See 9.3 for restrictions and procedure.
(10.32) Skirmishers (SK) have reduced effectiveness in combat, 
offset by enhanced withdrawal abilities. The following apply to 
Skirmishers only:
•	 Skirmishers may only Shock attack Chariots. 
•	 All non-SK units shock attacking solely SK units do not have to 
make a pre-Shock TQ Check, even if they must charge.
•	 When firing any missile at an SK unit, add two (+2) to the die roll 
(this adjustment applies only to the combat effect, not the Missile 
Availability).
•	 Skirmishers may Orderly Withdraw up to two hexes before any 
units whose MA is the same or less (i.e., all foot units), regardless 
of the MA differential.
•	 Skirmishers do not Rout; they are eliminated instead.
DESIGN NOTE: Players will also notice that chariots and skirmish-
ers have an unusual (albeit inimical) relationship: they each are 
Attack Superior to the other when attacking. This is not a misprint. 
It reflects the fact that chariots were susceptible to the tactics of 
aggressive skirmishers, who were trained in (literally) pulling the 
riders from the chariots. 
(10.4) SPECIAL CAVALRY CAPABILITIES
(10.41) Missile-armed Light Cavalry (LC) may use H&D tactics 
against any enemy unit that has a lower Movement Allowance. See 
9.3 for restrictions and procedure .
Exception: Light Cavalry may use H&D Tactics against Cataphract-
ed Heavy Cavalry (Cat HC), even though their MA is not higher.
(10.42) Cataphracted Cavalry. These units have special combat 
modifiers as noted in sections 8.17 and 9.44. These units pay a two 
(2) MP cost to change facing per vertex. 
(10.5) ARTILLERY
DESIGN/HISTORICAL NOTE: Camps, particularly forts and cities, 
were defended by the jamadagnya and yantra. While Indian artil-
lery was quite diverse, the term yantra was largely generic, simply 
meaning “machine” (the definition of “scorpio” by the Romans 
was not so firm, either, for that matter). For game purposes yantra 
refers to a moveable, scorpio-like device, and the jamadagnya is a 
larger (and sometimes stationary) bolt-throwing, ballista-like device. 
(10.51) Artillery units are missile firing engines with built-in crews, 
so they do not have to be manned. The crews are treated as LI if 
attacked. Artillery cannot Shock attack and their only offensive 
combat capability is to Fire. Indian Artillery units do not have a 
Grade (e.g. Maula, etc.) designation.
(10.52) Yantras may fire twice during a single Orders Phase (not turn); 
a Jamadagnya may fire once per Orders Phase. The units may fire at 
any time during the phase, even in the midst of enemy movement! 
They do not need Orders or LCs, nor do they have to be “in command.” 
The first time a Yantra fires, place a “Fired Once” marker on it. The 
second time it fires, or each time a Jamadagnya fires, flip the counter 
over to its “Fire Done” side. Artillery units do not use Reaction Fire. 
(10.53) Artillery have no “facing”; they may fire in any direction, 
regardless of which direction the actual counter is pointed. They 
may not fire over walls or ramparts of any kind, unless they are in 
Towers. 
DESIGN NOTE: Most ancient artillery were “low trajectory” 
weapons with little ability to raise the angle of fire.
(10.54) Artillery may move (as per their MA) in the Camp Orders 
Phase only, even if they are not in a camp. Units that are on their 
“Fired” side may not move. In certain scenarios the Jamadagnyas 
are immoveable.
(10.55) Artillery units incur Cohesion Hits from Fire and Shock 
only if alone in a hex, otherwise, the unit stacked with the Artillery 
incurs all hits. See 6.7 for stacking effects. An Artillery unit that 
Routs is eliminated. 
(10.56) Sarvatobhadras. Historical sources describe these as “carts 
on wheels” with a turnstile that revolved rapidly, “throwing stones 
in all directions.” In other words, a catapult. The Sarvatobhadra has 
the following capabilities/restrictions: 
•	 When moving by road, the Sarvatobhadra uses Column Movement 
benefits, i.e. increase of its MA by one (see 6.52).
•	 The Sarvatobhadra may fire only once per Game Turn (not 
phase).
•	 A Sarvatobhadra may be used to Breach a City Gate (see 
12.32).
(10.6) PHALANX AND HOPLITES 
(10.61) In any Shock Resolution in which a non-Phalanx unit 
moves and Shock attacks a Phalanx frontally, the Shock column is 
adjusted two to the Left (2L) for each flank of the Phalanx that is 
covered either by another Phalanx unit or a Phalanx ZOC (enabling 
echelon to work). 
DESIGN NOTE: This reflects the remarkable defensive capabilities 
that the Phalanx had, especially with its wall of 16–18 foot spears 
(known as the sarissa). Once inside the sarissa, the attackers stood 
a better chance of cracking the Phalanx. 
(10.62) Square. Phalanx and Hoplite Heavy Infantry (Size 10) 
units may form “square” to give it “all around” protection. To form 
or leave Square, an active unit must expend all of its Movement 
Allowance and not be in an enemy ZOC. Use a Square marker to 
indicate its new “formation”.

The Movement Allowance of a unit in Square is 1 MP. The unit 
can move in any direction but never adjacent to any enemy unit. 
All hexes adjacent to the unit in Square are front hexes (the unit has 
no flank/rear hexes). A friendly combat unit can never enter a hex 
containing a unit in Square. A unit in Square may not initiate Shock 
combat although it may move adjacent to an enemy unit. A unit in 
square retains all of its normal Shock table relationships. However, 
ignore the Size Ratio modifier. 
(10.63) Phalanxes (PH) and Heavy Infantry (HI) that are attacked 
frontally by Light Infantry (LI) do not have to undergo a pre-Shock 
TQ Check ... although the LI still does. The reverse is not true; Pha-
lanx and Heavy Infantry do undergo a pre-shock TQ check when 
attacking Light Infantry. 
(10.64) Phalanx Rout. Phalanxes and Hoplite/Heavy Infantry 
(Size 10 only) do not Rout like other units. If these units incur Hits 
greater than or equal to its TQ, the player rolls the die. He adds to 
that DR: 
1.	A number equal to the amount by which accumulated Hits exceeds 
TQ (thus, a Phalanx unit with a TQ of 7 that has incurred 9 hits 
would have +2 added to the Rout die roll); and 
2.	Three (+3), if the Phalanx or Hoplite/Heavy Infantry unit was 
attacking at the time. 
 
Exception: If the Hits were a result of Position Superiority by the 
enemy then the unit automatically Routs; there is no die roll.
STANDS: If the adjusted DR is equal to or less than the unit’s TQ, 
the unit Stands, in place, with hits equal to TQ minus 1. 
ROUTS: If the adjusted DR is greater than the unit’s TQ, the unit is 
Routed and retreats two hexes (as it would normally do when rout-
ing). The unit may not be rallied. In the Rout Movement segment of 
the Rout and Recovery Phase, all routed Phalanx and Hoplite/Heavy 
Infantry units are eliminated—immediately removed from play. 
PLAY NOTE: The single hex Greek Heavy Infantry hypaspists Rout 
as other units.
(10.7) GUILDS (Sreni) and TRIBALS 
(Atavibalam)
(10.71) Guild (Sreni) and Tribal units may only take Orders or Line 
Commands issued by their respective Guild (“GC”) or Tribal (“TC”) 
Chiefs (see 4.62).
(10.72) Guild Enmity. Guild units and their leaders are prohibited 
from stacking with one another and cooperating in combat:
HISTORICAL NOTE: Indian guild levies of this period were noto-
rious for their parochial loyalties and—and sometimes violent—
brawls with one another. “Machiavellis” such as Chanakya, fearing 
their independence, made a point of keeping the guilds at odds with 
one another. 
1.	Guild Chiefs may not voluntarily stack with or move through a 
hex containing a Chief from a different Guild. If forced to do so 
as a result of Retreat or enemy movement, the Chief forced to 
move is immediately Finished.
2.	Guild combat units may not voluntarily move through a hex con-
taining a combat unit from a different Guild. If forced to do so as 
a result of retreat, the moving unit is immediately routed and the 
stationary unit suffers an immediate one Cohesion Hit and must 
undergo a TQ check die roll (see 11.15 and 11.2).
3.	Routed Guild units treat other Guild units—even if controlled 
by the same player!—as enemy units for retreat purposes (in 
other words, they must find an alternate retreat path or they are 
eliminated).
4.	A Guild unit may not perform Shock Combat against any enemy 
unit that is in the ZOC of a unit from a different Guild. This re-
striction does not apply to missile fire. Guild units can of course 
always Shock or fire missiles at any units controlled by the op-
posing player (Guild or otherwise).
(10.73) Tribal units are restricted as to their movement in friendly 
camps—see 12.11 and individual scenario rules.
(10.74) Tribal units may stack two to a hex if they are units of the 
same Tribe, and not in a City or Stronghold hex. See 6.73.
(10.8) MAULA UNITS
(10.81) Maula Rout. When stacked with their Overall Commander 
and defending against a Shock attack, Maula class units do not Rout 
like other units. Each time such a unit incurs Hits greater than or 
equal to its TQ, the player rolls the die. He adds to that die roll a 
number equal to the amount by which the incurred hits exceeds the 
unit’s TQ. 
Exception: If the enemy has Position Superiority then the Maula 
unit automatically Routs; there is no die roll.
STANDS: If the adjusted die roll is equal to or less than the unit’s 
TQ, the unit stands in place, with hits equal to TQ minus 1.
ROUTS: If the adjusted die roll is greater than the unit’s TQ, the 
unit Routs per 11.21. 
(11.0) EFFECTS OF COMBAT 
Units suffer cohesion penalties (called “hits”) from disruptive 
and/or excessive movement and/or combat. Too many Cohesion 
Hits produce a Rout. Routing units retreat, for the most part, 
towards their Retreat Edge of the map as identified in the scenario 
rules. A routed unit can be Rallied under certain circumstances. 
 
(11.1) COHESION
Cohesion is a measure of how organized and effective a unit is at any 
point during the battle. The loss of cohesion is measured in Cohesion 
Hits, which are applied against a unit’s Troop Quality—sometimes 
automatically, sometimes after a die roll. The Cohesion Hit and TQ 
Check Chart (11.15) summarizes when these occur.
(11.11) Cohesion Markers. Each time that a unit receives a cohe-
sion hit place a Cohesion # Marker—representing the total number 
of hits taken—on (or under) the unit. 

(11.12) If there are multiple units involved in a single combat resolu-
tion, hits must be divided as equally as possible amongst these units, 
with any extra hits being given to the unit that was
	 1st: 	
used to determine Superiority;
 	 2nd: 	 used to determine the Shock CRT column;
 	 3rd: 	 player’s Choice.
This rule applies even if it means that a unit will have to Rout.
Exception: If a double-sized unit is attacking two single-hex units, 
the attacker chooses how any Cohesion Hits will be distributed 
among the defenders. Such distribution may be uneven, if so desired. 
This does not apply when double-sized units are defending.
(11.13) Recovery. During an Orders Phase, any unrouted unit which 
is not adjacent to an enemy unit, nor within range and LOS of an 
enemy missile unit that is not Missile No, and is in “Clear” terrain 
may remove two (2) Cohesion Hits by being given an Individual 
Order to do so. A unit may not remove more than two Cohesion Hits 
per Orders Phase, and neither Line nor Wing Commands may be 
used to do this. A unit that has “Recovered” may not do anything 
else that Order Phase. Units that have Rallied this game turn may 
not have Cohesion Hits removed.
(11.14) Cohesion Hits do not affect a unit’s combat strength or 
capabilities in any way, other than to show how close it is getting 
to falling apart. Thus, a unit with a TQ of 6 and 4 hits has the same 
combat effect as one with no hits. It is just more likely to Rout.
(11.15) Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart. This chart lists the 
times during the game when a unit must undergo a TQ Check. A 
TQ Check consists of rolling the die and comparing it to the unit’s 
printed TQ rating. The Cohesion Hit and TQ Check Chart lists the 
results, usually one or more Cohesion Hits when/if the die exceeds 
the rating. 
PLAY NOTE: As a reminder, units In Column have their TQ reduced 
by –2 (see 6.55) and Routed units have a TQ of “1” (see 11.28).
(11.2) ROUT and RETREAT
HISTORICAL NOTE: Routing units usually ran away, with infan-
try often throwing away their equipment in a futile effort to speed 
their exit—which usually precluded their being of much future use 
in the battle. 
 
(11.21) When a unit has absorbed Cohesion Hits equal to or more 
than its Troop Quality Rating it Routs. 
Exception #1: Chariots, Skirmishers, and Artillery units do not rout 
when their TQ is exceeded. They are, instead, eliminated. 
Exception #2: Elephants do not rout, but Rampage (10.14) in-
stead.
If, as a result of Cohesion Hits from Shock, ALL attacking and 
defending units would Rout, the following occurs:
1.	Attacker adds to his total Hits the number of Hits—if any—that 
he would incur were he to advance after combat.
2.	The side that has the unit with the greatest discrepancy between 
Hits and TQ rating Routs. If the defender is not Routed, it remains 
in place; if the attacker is not Routed, he advances (if eligible). 
The unit that does not Rout has Cohesion Hits equal to its TQ 
minus one (–1).
3.	If the difference between the Hits and TQ is the same for both 
sides, the defender Routs and the attacker advances after combat 
(if allowed) and has Cohesion Hits equal to its TQ minus one 
(–1).
 
EXAMPLE: Ambhi’s Takshashila javelinists Light Infantry with 4 
hits, attacks one of the Nanda’s archer Light Infantry, TQ of ‘5’, 
with one hit. The Nanda LI is in clear terrain, no elevation. The 
Shock Result is 2(2), but the Nanda’s hits are doubled because the 
Takshashila LI is Attack Superior due to a flank attack. This means 
the Takshashila LI now has 6 hits (TQ=6) and the Nanda LI has 5 
hits (TQ=5). There would be no added hits were the Takshashila 
Light Infantry to advance as the terrain is clear and level. They both 
have reached their “Rout” level, but, in this case, only the Nanda 
Light Infantry Routs. Ambhi adjusts his unit’s hit level to ‘5’ (TQ 
minus 1) and advances after combat. The Ambhi Player would have 
to roll for possible “Collapse” for the unit if after the advance it is 
in another enemy unit’s ZOC. 
(11.22) Rout Movement. A unit which has Routed is immediately 
moved two (2) hexes toward its Retreat Edge (as defined in scenario 
rules, but usually the one behind his original deployment). 
Exceptions: Elephant Rampage, see 10.14; Phalanx Rout, see 10.64; 
and Maula Rout, see 10.81. 
No Movement points are expended, but the unit must take the most 
direct path towards his Retreat Edge that is not blocked by enemy 
units, enemy ZOC (unless occupied by a friendly unit), or impass-
able terrain, even if this means moving into and/or through friendly 
units. However, when given a choice, it will take the path of least 
resistance (see below). The unit’s facing is changed—at no cost—
so that it faces the direction it is going to go at the instant of Rout. 
If it cannot retreat the full distance it is eliminated (see 11.23, and 
note 11.24). Place a “Routed” marker on that unit when it finishes 
its retreat.
The Path of Least Resistance is as follows:
1.	Vacant hex not in an enemy ZOC (even if terrain is not Clear); 
then,
2.	Friendly-occupied hex not in an enemy ZOC; then,
3.	Friendly-occupied hex in an enemy ZOC.
The routing unit will always enter ‘1’ before ‘2’, etc., always with 
an eye towards the Retreat Edge. 
PLAY/DESIGN NOTE: Routing units have one thought in mind: get-
ting out of the area as quickly as possible. If there are people standing 
in their way, that’s their problem. Therefore, routs in ancient warfare 
often took other troops with them. While routing/retreating units 
usually move directly towards the rear of their lines, instances will 
occur where that is not feasible or even possible. In such instances, 

common sense, along with the knowledge that these units are trying 
to get away from the enemy, should guide your movements.
(11.23) Cascade Rout. If an Indian OC or WC is conveyed by an 
Elephant or Chariot unit that Routs, the rout may spread or “cascade” 
to adjacent friendly units:
•	 If a Wing Commander or Overall Commander is atop an Elephant 
or Chariot unit that routs, all adjacent friendly units immediately 
make a TQ check die roll (as per 9.14).
•	 Furthermore, if the routing unit is an Elephant (EL) conveying 
an Overall Commander, all units adjacent to any units that have 
routed as a result of #1 above must also perform an immediate 
TQ check die roll (as per 9.14). 
Cascade Rout applies only when initiated by the Elephants and 
Chariots while stacked with Indian OCs or WCs conveyed by that 
type. Cascade Rout affects any adjacent units as described above, 
regardless of the unit’s Grade.
(11.24) In the Rout Movement Phase all routed units are moved 
their full, printed Movement Allowance in the same direction and 
manner as in 11.22—even if they moved previously during the turn. 
Routed units use normal movement rules, except that they may not 
enter enemy ZOCs unoccupied by friendly units. They do not suffer 
Cohesion Hits from Rout/Retreat movement.
(11.25) A unit that either moves off the map (for whatever reason) 
or cannot complete its Rout movement because of the presence of 
enemy units/ZOCs or impassable terrain is permanently removed 
from play and considered eliminated for Army Withdrawal purposes. 
Note that Routed units may NOT rout across a River hexside.
(11.26) The movement of Routing units through or into other units 
is covered on the Stacking Charts [6.78]. The main premise is that 
routed units may not stack. If a routed unit were to finish its rout 
movement in a friendly-occupied hex, instead, and as per the chart, 
it continues on one more hex. If that additional hex is also occupied, 
the routed unit is automatically eliminated. The non-moving unit in 
that hex incurs the penalties indicated on the chart. 
(11.27) If a Leader is stacked with a routing/retreating unit that 
leader may Rout Move/Retreat along with that unit. He is otherwise 
unaffected by the Rout/Retreat.
(11.28) Restrictions on Routed Units:
1.	Routed units retain their Size and Movement Allowance .
2.	They have a TQ of ‘1’. If a Routed unit fails a TQ check, it is 
3.	Routed foot missile units are automatically “Missile No” (this 
does not apply to mounted missile units).
4.	Routed units may not receive or use Orders or Commands (other 
than to Rally) nor may they fire missiles for any reason.
5.	Routed units that incur any additional cohesion hits are immedi-
ately eliminated and removed from play.
(11.3) RALLY 
(11.31) During an Orders Phase a leader may attempt to Rally any 
Routed unit which is stacked with him or within his Command 
Range, and is not adjacent to an enemy unit nor within LOS and 
missile range of an enemy missile-capable unit that is not Missile 
No. Follow the normal restrictions of 4.21 when determining Com-
mand Range. 
Exception: Elephants can never Rally (they Rampage instead; see 
10.14), nor do double-size Phalanxes and Hoplite/Heavy Infantry 
(see 10.64), Chariots (10.24), or Skirmishers (10.32). All these units 
are eliminated if/when they Rout.
(11.32) An individual leader may attempt to rally a given unit only 
once per Game Turn. The limitation applies to the leader, not the 
unit (a unit may be rallied by another leader in that turn, as long as 
the unit is within that leader’s Command Range). Rally is conducted 
as an Individual Order only.
(11.33) Procedure. A leader may automatically Rally any eligible 
(per 11.31) unit with which he is stacked. For an eligible Routed 
unit with which he is not stacked, but which is within his Command 
Range, he makes the attempt by rolling the die: 
1.	if the leader is Indian and conveyed by Elephant (see 6.16), sub-
tract one (–1) from that leader’s Rally attempt. Then,
2.	if the die roll is the same as or lower than the Leader’s Initiative Rat-
ing +1 (which represents the routed unit’s TQ), the unit is Rallied. 
3.	if the die roll is higher than the “Initiative +1,” the unit Rout Moves 
(11.22), unless the die roll was also higher than the printed TQ in 
which case it is instead eliminated.
(11.34) Units that have been successfully Rallied have their Rout 
Marker flipped to its “Rallied” side. The unit is now given Hits 
equal to one-half its printed TQ, rounded down. 
 
PLAY NOTE: Yes, a leader may move around the map during his turn, 
stopping to issue Individual Orders for Rally and then moving on.
(11.4) SRENI and TRIBAL FLIGHT
(11.41) At the conclusion of the Rout Movement segment, each 
player checks to see whether any of his Sreni or Tribal contingents 
have Fled. If the Guild/Tribe has no routed or eliminated units, the 
Guild/Tribe is unaffected.
(11.42) To determine if a Sreni or Tribal contingent has Fled, the 
owning player rolls a die, adding to the roll the number of that 
Guild’s/Tribe’s units that are Routed or have been eliminated. If the 
adjusted die roll is greater than that Guild’s/Tribe’s Flight Level as 
given in the scenario instructions, that Guild/Tribe has Fled. Remove 
all units in the Tribe/Guild from play—they are eliminated. 
(12.0) FORTIFICATIONS 
(12.1) CAMPS
The Gandhara, Malayaketu, and Magadha scenarios use the Camp 
Extension map. The map contains all the classical elements of an 
Indian military camp of the era as described (in some detail) in the 
Arthashastra. As one can see, there are several “layers” of defensive 
walls, berms, and other enclosures protecting the royal encampment 
at the center. A unit’s access to these enclosures may be restricted 
by the unit’s type and/or grade.
DESIGN NOTE: The camp here is rendered as close as possible 
to the descriptions of military camps provided in the Arthashastra. 
Camps were large and contained everything from provisions to 
prostitutes, vendors, priests, and other non-combatants. The crowded 
conditions are simulated by camp terrain movement costs.
(12.11) Indian fortifications were built with four concentric enclo-
sures, each bounded by different terrain:
Fourth Enclosure: An outer perimeter of the camp, normally de-
fended by Tribal units, comprised of a Berm/Ditch—essentially a 

ditch and earthen wall, perhaps 6–8 feet in height, which provided 
a basic defensive line. Non-infantry may not cross a Berm/Ditch 
hexside.
Third Enclosure: The camp proper. Sreni and Bhrta units, as well 
as elephants were camped within this enclosure. Elephants, Chariots, 
and Cavalry may enter this enclosure only through Gate hexsides. 
Friendly Tribal units may not voluntarily enter this enclosure; they 
may only enter it (through a Gate hexside) as part of Rout movement 
(see 11.24). Enemy Tribals are not under this restriction. The third 
camp enclosure consisted of several terrain items, including:
	 Wall–what surrounded the “camp” per se, a palisade of wooden 
posts. Non-infantry units may not cross a Wall hexside other than 
via Gate. 
	 Gates–served, obviously, as the means of crossing the Palisade. 
These were actual hinged gates, barricaded from inside against 
the enemy.
	 Moat–a (usually) water-filled ditch that surrounded the wooden 
palisade. It was frequently augmented with sharpened spikes, 
etc.
	 Towers–were built at various intervals along walls to act as strong 
points and to guard the entrances. Higher than the walls they sup-
ported, they were used for missile firing troops and Artillery. 
Second Enclosure: This enclosure contained the armory and the 
encampment of the Senapati (Wing Commanders). Maula and Bhrta 
units camped here, as well as Cavalry and Chariot units. The Second 
enclosure was bounded by Thorns. A form of ancient “concertina 
wire,” shrubs variously known as “dog’s tooth” for their large thorns 
were gathered to form a defensive barrier. Non-infantry units may 
not cross a Thorns hexside.
First Enclosure: This was the enclosure of the Royal Encampment, 
and also contained the royal stables, the encampment of the priests, 
the field treasury, and the harem (none of which have any effect on 
movement). Friendly non-Maula units may not voluntarily enter 
this enclosure if any Maula units are inside. The First Enclosure 
was bounded by Wagons, which were (probably) buried up to their 
axles in the upcast soil of a shallow defensive trench. Non-infantry 
may not cross a Wagons hexside.
(12.12) Camp Effects Chart. Each of the above has its own MP 
and Cohesion costs to cross, as listed on the chart. It is usually easier 
to cross a fortification hexside from within the camp than from the 
outside. Movement through Gates is most efficiently accomplished 
In Column (see 6.5).
(12.13) Camp Walls and Camp Towers may be destroyed by Elephant 
units (see 12.31 and 12.32). 
(12.14) Units may not Retreat, Rout, or Withdraw across a fortified 
hexside. Cavalry, Chariots, and Elephant units may not cross any 
fortified hexside other than a Camp Gate. These unit types cannot 
enter a Camp Tower. Moreover, if a unit does not have the necessary 
MPs to cross a given fortified hexside, it may not do so.
(12.15) Units outside a fortification hexside do NOT extend a Zone 
of Control (7.2) across/through fortification hexsides of any type. 
Exception: Missile-armed units that are not “Missile No” DO exert 
a ZOC across Thorn and Wagon hexsides.
(12.16) Units inside fortifications exert a “Fort ZOC”: they affect 
movement like standard ZOCs, but they do not require Shock against 
units moving into them. All units inside fortifications that are facing 
adjacent to Walls, Berms, etc., exert Fort ZOCs into adjacent hexes 
outside the fortification. 
(12.17) Nayaka inside camps may issue LCs without being given a 
Mauryan Wing Command by their WC. An SC or WC may issue a 
Line Command inside a camp without being in the range of the OC. 
Individual combat units inside a camp’s Third Enclosure or lower 
(i.e. within the palisade walls) and without a leader (they have no 
leader inside the camp) may move as if they were given orders, as 
long as they do not leave the camp and have not previously Moved 
during that turn. For this purpose—specifically and alone—there 
is a Camp Orders Phase. It occurs after all other units have gone. 
They may move adjacent to enemy units, fire and/or shock, as if 
they were given orders. 
PLAY/DESIGN NOTE: Units defending inside a camp would rely 
mostly on time-honored drill, training and dogma ... as well as their 
lower-level leaders ... to defend the camp.
(12.18) Missile Fire in and out of fortifications carries die roll modi-
fiers because of sighting problems. All camp fortification hexsides 
other than the Moat block Line of Sight (LOS) (see 8.14) with the 
exception that a missile unit adjacent to a fortification hexside may 
fire and be fired at. Towers hexes block LOS, however, missile units 
may fire into/from such hexes. The following die roll adjustments 
are applied, per fortification type:
Wall: Slingers suffer a +1 die roll adjustment; archers suffer a +2 
adjustment; javelinists a +4 adjustment. 
Gates: Gates are treated as Walls (above). However, a missile unit 
firing across a Breached Gate hexside from a range of greater than 
one hex may only fire into the adjoining hex and no further (and the 
die roll adjustment for Walls still applies). 
Towers: Units firing from Tower hexes (inside-to-outside) do not 
suffer the above die roll adjustments; they gain a benefit of subtract-
ing one (–1) from all die rolls. Archers and slingers firing at units 
in Towers suffer a +1 adjustment; javelinists have a +2 die roll 
adjustment when doing so.
Missile units, including Artillery, in Tower hexes increase their 
Missile Range by one hex. At the “Extended Range” they need an 
(adjusted) ‘0’ to obtain a Hit.
(12.2) CITIES (TAKSHASHILA)
Takshashila—known as “Taxila” by the Greeks—was the ancient 
capital of the kingdom of Gandhara and strategically located at the 
crossroads of major trade routes from Pataliputra in the east, the 
north-western route into Bactria, and from Kashmir in the north. 
The walls of the city were of heavy mud bricks reinforced with 
timber. Typical of a city of that era, it did not enjoy the benefits of 
urban planning—the buildings were small and crowded one atop 
another over the generations, separated by lanes in which two people 
could barely walk abreast, and its streets were “haphazard, narrow 
and tortuous.” 
DESIGN NOTE: For Takshashila and its surrounding terrain, we 
used the excellent topographical map provided in Marshall’s A 
Guide to Taxila. Other than the city walls and portions of the main 
avenue (revealed through Marshall’s excavation), the interior of the 
city as portrayed is largely conjectural.
(12.21) City Effects Chart. The city of Takshashila has the fol-
lowing features for game purposes, each having its own MP and 
Cohesion costs to enter/cross, as listed on the chart:

City Walls–units cannot move across City Walls. 
City Gate–the city has four which provide access through the City 
Wall.
City Block–the built up areas of the city; its buildings and dwell-
ings. 
City Street–the major thoroughfares inside the city.
City Square–open areas within the city; a form of “Street” ter-
rain. 
Temple/Palace–the key city buildings; a form of “Block” terrain. 
(12.22) Units inside the city are located either in Street terrain (in-
cluding City Squares) or in Block terrain (including the Temple and 
Palace). Only foot units may enter Block terrain (except double-sized 
units, which are prohibited).
Exception: Elephants may Shock Attack into and Advance after 
Shock into a Temple/Palace hex but may not enter in the Move-
ment Segment.
(12.23) A unit may use Street movement by entering a Street hex 
directly from another Street hex, but only if traversing a hexside that 
is crossed by the Street symbol (e.g. from 2430 to 2529). However, if 
entering a Street hex from a non-Street hex or across a hexside that 
is not traversed by the Street terrain symbol, it is subject to Block 
movement costs/restrictions. 
EXAMPLE: A Mauryan LI-A* is in hex 2428 and wants to move 
towards the Square in 2628 (it is in normal formation, not In Col-
umn). It may thus move to hex 2528 by using the Street from 2429 to 
2528, expending a total of 4 MPs along the way (2 MPs per Street 
hex); it cannot move to the Square this Movement Phase because 
it does not have enough of its MA remaining. Alternately, the unit 
may move directly into the adjacent hex 2528, but will use Block 
terrain costs at 3 MPs; since it has 2 of its MA remaining, it could 
then move from 2528 and into the square in hex 2628.
(12.24) Elephants, Chariots, and Cavalry may only move into Street 
terrain, including City Squares (note exception in 12.22). The Street 
movement of Elephant units, furthermore, is restricted to the main 
thoroughfare that runs north to south (the “wider” street on the map 
from hex 2426 to hex 2939). 
HISTORICAL NOTE: Excavations show this main thoroughfare to 
average about 22 feet in width, not much to be sure, but enough for 
a pachyderm in single-file with some screen archers (nervously) 
trotting alongside. The other streets, however, appear to have been 
from 9–12 feet in width—too tight a squeeze for an elephant.
(12.25) Movement through Gates and along Streets is most effi-
ciently accomplished In Column (see 6.5). Chariots and Elephants 
must be In Column to enter a Street hex. Units in Street or Square 
hexes observe normal Facing rules and thus must move into their 
frontal hexes per 6.53 or 7.11. 
PLAY NOTE: Note that Chariots and Elephants must be In Column to 
enter (i.e. move into) a Street hex; they do not have to be In Column 
if they are stationary.
EXAMPLE: Repeating the example above, say there is a Mauryan 
EL unit in 2428, heading towards the same Square in 2628. The 
Elephant is In Column (it must be to use Street movement), and 
has more than enough MA to reach 2628. At the conclusion of its 
movement, the EL unit reverts from Column to normal formation and 
is faced 30 degrees to the vertex with hexes 2629/2728 (per 6.53). 
Because EL units are prohibited from moving into Block terrain, 
the unit could not have entered 2528 directly from 2428; it had to 
traverse the Street through hex 2429.
(12.26) Units in Block, Temple or Palace hexes are considered to 
have “all-around” facing and may move into any adjacent hex by 
expending the appropriate MP cost (see the City Effects Chart 12.21). 
Units in Block, Temple or Palace hexes cannot be In Column. 
(12.27) ZOCs do not extend into City Block, Temple, or Palace 
hexes. Likewise, units in a City hex do NOT exert a ZOC into an-
other City hex, and therefore cannot use Entry or Retire Reaction 
Fire against enemy units (see 8.21 and 8.22).
(12.28) Units outside the City Wall/Gate hexside do NOT extend a 
Zone of Control (7.2) across/through these hexsides. Only Missile-
armed units inside the city and adjacent to a Wall/Gate hexside, that 
are not “Missile No”, exert a ZOC across these hexsides. 
(12.29) Units in a City Block, Temple, or Palace hex may fire mis-
siles in any direction. City Walls and Gates are blocking terrain for 
LOS purposes (8.14). LOS, however, is not blocked to/from a unit 
adjacent to a City Wall/Gate. City Block, Temple, and Palace hexes 
block LOS. Missile Fire can be directed into such hexes but not 
through them. City Streets and Squares do not block LOS. Thus a 
Missile unit in a Palace hex could fire across the street at a unit in a 
Temple hex. A Missile unit in a Street/Square hex may fire down a 
row of City Street hexes if that route is a straight line (no shooting 
around corners). Thus, an Archer in hex 2530 (Takshashila map) 
could fire along the street into hexes 2631 and 2731, but not into 
2732.	
(12.210) Units in a City Block, Temple, or Palace hex may Shock 
attack any, all, or none of the enemy units adjacent. Shock is never 
mandatory for units in a City hex, nor are “Heavy” units required to 
Shock if they move adjacent to an enemy unit in a City hex. A unit 
cannot Shock attack into or across a hex/hexside it cannot enter. 
(12.211) There is no Pre-Shock check for any Shock combat con-
ducted inside the city; skip this step in the Shock procedure. Shock 
attacking into/from most City terrain has an adverse column shift 
as noted on the City Effects Chart. An attacking unit may never 
gain Position Superiority against a unit in a City Block, Temple, 
or Palace hex. 
(12.212) A unit that Routs while inside the city is automatically 
eliminated. The Player may Recover Hits in a City hex; treat as 
clear for purposes of 11.13. Missile unit range/LOS do not prevent 
Recovery for units in City Block, Temple, or Palace hexes, nor do 
adjacent enemy units prohibit Recovery in those hexes.
(12.213) Units may not retreat, rout, or withdraw across a City Wall 
hexside. Gate hexsides may be crossed by either player if Breached. 
If not Breached, the Gate hexside can be crossed only by the con-
trolling player. The player who controls the Gate is the player who 
has a unit in an adjacent hex inside the city, or was the last player to 
occupy that hex. Control of Gates at beginning of game is defined 
in the scenario instructions. 
(12.214) Leaders can only issue Individual Orders to units within the 
city. Leaders may only issue a Recovery order to a unit in the same 
hex. Leaders may enter any City hex regardless of conveyance.
 

(12.3) BREACHING FORTIFICATIONS
(12.31) Breaching Camp Walls/Gates. Indians specifically trained 
Elephants for this purpose—although it is not an easy task: 
1.	The Elephant unit must begin the (non-Momentum) Orders Phase 
with the camp wall in its front hexside(s), and cannot move or 
change facing for the entire Phase. If it does so the Breach attempt 
fails.
2.	During the Resolve Breach Attempts segment in the Rout and 
Recovery Phase, roll the die for each eligible unit. If the “target” 
is a Camp Gate, it is breached on a roll of 0–4; if target is a Camp 
Wall, it is breached on a roll of 0–2.
3.	If the Wall or Gate is successfully breached, place a Breached 
marker in the Elephant unit’s hex, with the arrow pointing towards 
the breached hexside (attacker’s choice if more than one adjacent 
hexside). The “breached” status remains for the duration of the 
game. 
(12.32) Destroying Camp Towers/City Gates is a special case, requir-
ing two successful attempts by the Elephant unit:
1.	Breaching Camp Towers/City (Takshashila) Gates requires that 
the Tower/Gate first be Damaged, then Destroyed/Breached. This 
requires two non-Momentum Orders Phases (Phases do not have 
to be consecutive).
2.	The Elephant unit must begin its Orders Phase adjacent to and 
facing the Camp Tower hex, or (if the target is a City Gate) with 
the City Gate in its frontal hexside. It cannot move or change fac-
ing for the entire Phase. If it does so the Damage/Destroy/Breach 
attempt fails.
3.	During the Resolve Breach Attempts segment in the Rout and 
Recovery Phase, roll the die for each eligible unit. On a roll of 0–3 
the Tower/City Gate is Damaged; if it has already been Damaged, 
then it is Destroyed/Breached. Place a “Damaged” or “Destroyed” 
(Tower)/”Breached” (City Gate) marker, as applicable, on the 
target hex. This status remains in effect for the duration of the 
game.
4.	Only Camp Towers can be destroyed; Takshashila City Walls 
cannot be destroyed. Any units occupying a Camp Tower when 
it is destroyed are automatically Routed. 
(12.33) More than one Elephant unit can attempt to Breach/Destroy 
the same target hex(side) at the same time. Each such unit would 
perform a separate die roll during Rout and Recovery Phase. The 
results upon the target gate/wall/tower are cumulative. 
(12.34) Elephant units may fire missiles while conducting a Breach 
or Damage/Destroy attempt with no penalty. During a Momentum 
Phase, an Elephant unit may fire its missiles but it cannot use that 
Phase to enable a Breach/Destroy attempt.
(12.35) A Sarvatobhadra may be used to Breach a City Gate (only). 
The Sarvatobhadra must be issued an Individual Order to do so by 
a commander—Nayakas are not eligible. The procedure is:
1.	The Sarvatobhadra must fire from a range greater than one hex—it 
cannot do so from an adjacent hex.
2.	The player must announce that he is firing his Sarvatobhadra upon 
a gate. On a roll of 0–4 the gate is Damaged; if it has already been 
Damaged, then it is Breached. Place a “Damaged” or “Breached” 
marker, as applicable, on the target hex.
3.	On any roll equal to or less than the number indicated on the 
Sarvatobhadra line of the Missile Results Chart, all units in a hex 
adjacent to the Gate hexside—including friendly units!—must 
immediately make a TQ check. Units that fail take 1 Cohesion 
Hit. Combat units are otherwise unaffected.
(12.36) Breach Table. See Charts and Tables
(12.4) RETIRE TO CAMP
Indian forces had a predilection for fighting within close range of 
their camps in order to retreat to the camp’s safety if “fate” was not 
treating them well. This rule is used only in scenarios where the 
Indian Camp, the city of Takshashila, or the Khasha strongholds 
are in use. 
(12.41) Retire to Camp applies only to the Indian army that controls 
the camp, Takshashila city, or the Khashan mountain strongholds 
at the beginning of the game; the opposing (or any foreign) army 
cannot use Retire to Camp. 
(12.42) To initiate a Retire to Camp, the Overall Commander of the 
side controlling the camp/city/stronghold, must be within twice his 
Command Range, in hexes, of a respective city gate, camp gate, or 
the main Khasha stronghold (hexes 3309 or 3410). At the start of 
his OC’s activation, the player declares that his army will Retire to 
Camp. Once made, the declaration cannot be rescinded.
(12.43) Retire to Camp is triggered as follows. Having made his 
declaration per 12.42, on this activation and at the start of each 
subsequent OC activation, the player must roll against his OC’s 
Initiative, adding to the die roll the following:
•	 If the OC is present inside a “Retire Target Area” add one (+1) 
to the die roll. The Target Area is any hex within the camp’s 
First Enclosure, one of the two Palace hexes of Takshashila, or 
the main Khashas stronghold (hexes 3309–3410 on the Khashas 
map), respectively. 
•	 Add one (+1) for every ten friendly Rout Points accumulated
If the adjusted die roll is higher than the OC’s Initiative, Retire to 
Camp is triggered. If equal to or lower than his OC’s Initiative, the 
OC is immediately Finished for the remainder of that Game Turn.
(12.44) When Retire to Camp is triggered the following occurs:
1.	The OC is restricted to Individual Orders only. One of the Individ-
ual Orders issued by the OC must be used to either move himself, 
or a unit with which he is stacked (see first and second bullets of 
4.71), towards one of the Target Areas defined in the first bullet 
of 12.43, above. The OC, or the unit with which he is stacked, 
must expend the full MP allowance until the OC has reached the 
Target Area. The path taken must be as direct as possible, bar-
ring impassable terrain or enemy units (e.g. no dilly-dallying or 
stopping at the bawdy house). This is considered a retreat by the 
Overall Commander, and the spirit of the Retreat rules in 11.22 
should be observed. 
2.	Once reaching his OC target hex, the Overall Commander is re-
leased from the command restriction of #1 above, though 12.214 
applies to leaders inside Takshashila. However, for the remainder 
of the game, the OC may NOT leave the confines of the Target 
Area.

Once the OC has reached his Target Area, the Victory Conditions 
for the opposing player now change. To win the game, the oppos-
ing player must now control the respective camp/city/stronghold 
as defined in the scenario special rules. The “retiring” player’s 
victory conditions do not change (i.e. he still must cause his enemy 
to Withdraw).
DESIGN NOTE: Originally this optional rule had been designed 
as a form of mandatory Pre-Arranged Withdrawal. We believe the 
rule as now written is more elegant and makes for more interesting 
play. The player must now consider the timing and positioning of his 
troops before making his declaration, and will be forced to reposi-
tion his units according to the new circumstances of his opponent’s 
changed victory conditions. 
(13.0) ARMY WITHDRAWAL
(13.11) A player wins by causing his opponent’s army to Withdraw. 
An army will withdraw when it has reached its Withdrawal Level (as 
given in the scenario instructions) at the end of the turn. During the 
Withdrawal Phase, each player totals the number of Rout Points that 
army/player has garnered from his eliminated units—this includes 
units that have Fled (11.4) or have Routed off the map, as well as 
any Killed leaders. 
(13.12) In general, a unit is worth RPs equal to its TQ, with the 
following exceptions: 
•	 All Indian Tribal combat units are worth one (1) RP.
•	 All Indian Sreni (Guild) combat units are worth two (2) RPs.
•	 Skirmisher (SK) units are worth two (2) RPs.
•	 All Indian Maula and Bhrta Light Infantry are worth one-half 
their TQ, rounded up.
•	 Phalanx and Hoplite/Heavy Infantry (Size 10) are worth twice 
(2X) their TQ in Rout Points.
•	 Artillery units are worth zero (0) RP.
•	 Sreni, Tribal, and Nayaka Leaders are worth their Initiative Rating 
in RP, all other Leaders are worth five times (5x) their Initiative 
Rating in RP.
(13.13) If an Army’s RP total is the same or higher than the With-
drawal Level for that army in that battle, it has surrendered the 
battlefield and that player has lost the battle. 
(13.14) If both sides reach Withdrawal Level at the end of the same 
turn, the player with the least number of RPs above that level wins 
(but just barely). If both sides are exactly the same, it’s a draw.
Clarification: EL units are worth RPs equal to their TQ.
(14.0) OPTIONAL RULES
(14.1) DHARMAYUDDHA
HISTORICAL NOTE: Dharmayuddha, or “just” warfare, was a 
military code approaching laws of war. It essentially prohibited 
flanking attacks or attacks by units of one arm of the military against 
units of a weaker or “lesser” (in the hierarchy) arm. Observing 
Dharmayuddha—or violating it when one has pledged to abide by 
it—may raise or lower a player’s Withdrawal Level.
(14.11) Only Indians may adopt Dharmayuddha. Foreign armies 
(e.g. Greek) may not do so.
(14.12) Before play begins, the player(s) controlling an Indian Over-
all Commander must indicate, in secret, whether he will abide by 
Dharmayuddha. The player simply writes “yes” or “no” on a scrap 
of paper, folds it so that it cannot be read by his opponent, and sets 
it aside. Note that if both players control an Indian OC both must 
make this choice.
(14.13) Until the player’s “pledge” is revealed, all of his forces, re-
gardless of class, must abide by the following combat restrictions:
•	 Units that undertake Shock combat or fire missiles may do so 
through an enemy’s front hexsides only; they may not Shock from 
(or fire missiles through) a unit’s rear or flank hexes even if the 
unit is in their ZOC (note this exception to 9.12). Normal ZOC 
rules still apply.
Exception: Cavalry and Chariots may Shock and Missile Fire at 
Elephants through the EL’s flank hexes.
•	 Orderly Withdrawal is not allowed with the exception that Cavalry 
and Chariots may withdraw if approached by an Elephant per 
10.16.
•	 Furthermore, Shock combat may not be initiated by a friendly 
unit against a “subordinate” enemy unit, as per the table below:
	 	
	
 	
 
EL,elCH
Cavalry
Chariot
MI
LI
El,elCH
Cavalry
Chariot
MI
LI
	 	
A = Attack allowed
	 	
P = Prohibited
	 	
* = See Exception #2 below.
 
Exception #1: Units are prohibited from initiating Shock with a 
subordinate unit, but are not exempt once they have already been 
Shock attacked by a subordinate unit, and they still remain in that 
(“inferior”) unit’s ZOC.
PLAY NOTE: In other words, if in the ZOC of a subordinate unit 
that has attacked it in the preceding Combat Phase, the “superior” 
unit may conduct Shock against it (use a “Shock—No Check” coun-
ter to keep track). Once the subordinate unit has moved away, the 
exception is rescinded.
Exception #2: Infantry that are part of a combined EL/Infantry or 
CH/Infantry line (4.33) are not treated as “Infantry LI” for purposes 
of Dharmayuddha. Instead, treat them as EL or CH, respectively.
(14.14) A unit that “Must Shock” per 7.31 may only move into a 
hex adjacent to a Prohibited enemy unit (i.e. that is “P” for it on the 
Dharmayuddha table) by expending an additional two (+2) Move-
ment Points to enter that hex. It ignores the Must Shock requirement 
for any “P” units that are in its ZOC. The +2 MPs are not cumulative 
to the number of enemy “P” units adjacent. 
(14.15) A player’s Dharmayuddha “pledge” may be revealed volun-
tarily, during the Orders Phase of any one of his activated leaders. 
The pledge cannot be revealed on the first turn of the game. Once 
he has revealed his “pledge” to his opponent, the player is free from 
the restrictions of 14.13 (though he may incur penalties for violating 
them; see below). 

(14.16) If he has not voluntarily revealed his pledge, a player must 
reveal his pledge during the Withdrawal Phase that his forces reach 
their Withdrawal Level (per 13.11).
(14.17) When a player reveals his pledge, the following awards or 
penalties apply:
•	 If during his leader’s Orders Phase (per 14.15) a player reveals 
he has pledged “yes” to Dharmayuddha and then (or any time 
thereafter) proceeds to violate the restrictions of 14.13, his With-
drawal Level is reduced by 10% (rounded up) at the subsequent 
Withdrawal Phase, after Rout Points of his eliminated units have 
been tallied.
•	 If a player who has obeyed the restrictions of 14.13 reaches his 
Withdrawal Level, and reveals that he had pledged “yes,” his 
Withdrawal Level is increased by 15% (rounded up), after Rout 
Points are tallied.
•	 A player that has pledged “no” gains no penalty or Withdrawal 
Level benefit.
PLAY NOTE: A player may pledge “no,” observe the restrictions of 
Dharmayuddha nonetheless, and yet never have to reveal his pledge 
(because his opponent reaches Withdrawal Level first). Bluffing is 
encouraged.
(14.18) Tribal units are altogether exempt from Dharmayuddha. 
Tribal units (only) may voluntarily conduct Shock free from the 
restrictions of 14.13 and have no impact on the owning player’s 
commitment to the pledge.
HISTORICAL NOTE: Though mentioned from the Epic period 
through to the Mauryan era, it is not certain to what extent Dhar-
mayuddha was practiced. It least with some Indian leaders—and 
among the kshatriya caste—obeying the rules of “just war” was a 
matter of personal pride akin to the Roman concept of battlefield 
“honor.” At any rate, confrontation with foreigners and the impe-
rial ambitions of the Mauryans tended to endorse its opposite—
“Kutayuddha,” or “unjust” war.
 
 
(14.2) RANDOM SELECTION OF GUILDS 
(SRENI) and TRIBALS
DESIGN NOTE: While specific military guilds (e.g. Artisans, Silk 
Weavers, etc.) are mentioned frequently in the sources, which guilds 
fought for which side in which battle simply is not known. It is likely 
that independent guilds of the same trade were found among all the 
kingdoms and city-states of India, and their loyalties were parochial. 
The situation is the same for the Tribals—we have tribe names and 
know the part of the country they lived in, but no telling on whose side 
they may have fought. It’s likely that they changed sides, or avoided 
fighting altogether, according to expediency (i.e. survival). This rule 
allows the players to “choose their own” Guilds and Tribes—a 
method not much more informed than the designer’s. 
(14.21) Before the game begins, all available Guild and Tribal Chiefs 
from the counter mix are placed in a cup. Players draw counters from 
the cup, rolling the die to determine who goes first. Whatever Chief 
the player draws, that is the Guild or Tribe available to him for the 
game. The players repeat, alternating their draws until a number of 
Guilds and/or Tribes equal to the OOB have been drawn for each 
player. If a player’s OOB lists Guilds only and no Tribes, and he 
draws a TC, he returns the TC to the cup and draws again until he 
selects a Guild Chief (and vice-versa, if he has Tribes only). If a 
player has no Guilds or Tribes in his OOB, he does not draw. 
(14.22) Use a “free setup” for Guilds when this optional rule is used. 
The player(s) may choose to set up their Sreni units and leaders 
anywhere on the map on or behind the forward-most hex row (facing 
the opponent) of the scenario’s original deployment scheme. 
(14.23) Variant. The player controlling Chanakya (if Chanakya is in 
play) may demand a re-draw if he does not like the selection he (or 
his opponent) has made. Roll against Chanakya’s Charisma Rating; 
if the die roll is the same or lower, all Chief counters are returned 
to the draw cup and then re-drawn, per 14.21. If higher, there is no 
re-draw and Chanakya is Finished for the entire first Game Turn. 
Limit is one re-draw attempt per game.
Fin.