Welcome to the 
In Warhammer’s Old World, four Ruinous Powers – 
the gods of Chaos – have held sway for uncounted 
millennia.
Khorne, the Blood God, the Skulltaker, lusts for death 
and battle, taking delight in fury and slaughter, rage 
and butchery.
Nurgle, the Plaguelord, the Father of Corruption, luxu-
riates in filth and disease, spreading a tide of pus and 
pestilence across the land.
Tzeentch, the Changer of Ways, the Great Conspira-
tor, is the architect of the fate of the universe, weaving 
strands of confusion and manipulation as slippery as 
silk.
Slaanesh, the Prince of Pleasure and Pain, the Lord 
of Temptations, lures even the most steadfast to the 
seductions of avidity, gluttony, carnality, paramountcy, 
vainglory, and indolency.
But even as these four Powers play their Great Game 
forever and for all time, the Old World itself resists 
their ravages and depredations with staunch resolve and 
mighty heroes.
The Object of the Game
In Chaos in the Old World, each player takes the 
role of one of the four malignant and horrible Ruin-
ous Powers who are fighting to corrupt, dominate, or 
destroy the Old World. The Ruinous Powers are also 
sometimes called Chaos Powers, Powers, or gods.
There are two routes each player can take to victory:
All four Powers are rewarded for corrupting and 
dominating the regions of the Old World with their 
followers and activities. These rewards are recorded 
on the victory point (VP) track. If any Power has 
accumulated 50 VP at the end of a game round, the 
game ends.
Each Ruinous Power also has a unique way to 
impose its own Threat on the Old World. Khorne 
seeks to kill as many figures as possible to slake his 
thirst for blood, for example, while Tzeentch seeks to 
infest regions where magic and warpstone are found. 
Threat is tracked on four dials affixed to the game 
board. Each Power must advance its dial to a certain 
point in order to win by this method. One unit of 
dial advancement is called a tick.
If none of the Powers have won by the time the Old 
World deck is exhausted, the Old World itself is the 
victor, and all four Ruinous Powers lose. See “Check for 
Game End” on page 22 for more specific information 
about victory conditions and the end of the game.
Components
Chaos in the Old World includes:
This Rulebook
1 Game Board
4 Threat Dials (one for each Power)
4 Sets of Two-part Plastic Connectors
4 Power Sheets (one for each Power)
196 Cardboard Tokens:
4 Power Markers (one for each Power)
4 Victory Point Markers (one for each Power)
16 Dial Advancement Counters
116 Corruption Tokens (29 for each Power)
56 Old World Tokens:
6 Event Tokens
4 Hero Tokens
6 Noble Tokens
20 Peasant Tokens
6 Skaven Tokens
14 Warpstone Tokens
149 Cards:
96 Chaos Cards (24 for each Power)
20 Upgrade Cards (five for each Power)
5 Ruination Cards
28 Old World Cards
5 Dice
45 Plastic Followers:
11 Khorne Followers:
1 Bloodthirster Greater Daemon
6 Bloodletter Warriors
4 Bloodsworn Cultists

Pow er Sheets
Four Power sheets – one per Chaos Power – present a 
variety of information for the player of each Power. Each 
sheet also provides a track where the player can use his 
power marker to track his power points during each 
round’s summoning phase.
For more information, see “Power Sheet Breakdown” on 
page 5.
Pow er Mark ers
Each Chaos Power’s power marker is moved 
along its Power sheet’s power point track to 
indicate the power points remaining to that 
player at any given time.
V ictory Point Mark ers
Each Chaos Power’s victory point marker 
is moved along the victory point track on 
the game board to indicate the number of 
victory points that Power has accumulated 
in the course of gameplay.
Dial Advancement Counters
Dial advancement counters are used to 
keep track of the number of times, dur-
ing a given game round, that each Chaos 
Power fulfills its Threat dial advancement 
condition.
If the supply of dial advancement counters is ever 
exhausted, any convenient markers, such as coins, can 
be substituted. The supply of dial advancement counters 
should be considered unlimited.
12 Nurgle Followers:
1 Great Unclean One Greater Daemon
5 Plaguebearer Warriors
6 Leper Cultists
12 Tzeentch Followers:
1 Lord of Change Greater Daemon
3 Horror Warriors
8 Acolyte Cultists
10 Slaanesh Followers:
1 Keeper of Secrets Greater Daemon
3 Daemonette Warriors
6 Seductress Cultists
Component Overview
The following sections describe the components of 
Chaos in the Old World.
Ga me Board
The main portion of the game board is a map of the Old 
World. The game board also features the four Ruinous 
Powers’ Threat dials, the victory point track, and spaces 
for the Old World cards and ruination cards. For more 
information, see “Game Board Breakdown” and “Map 
Region Breakdown” on pages 4 and 5.
Thr eat Dials and 
Plastic Connectors
The four Threat dials are attached to the game board 
using the plastic connectors.
To attach the dials before playing Chaos in the Old 
World for the first time, simply push one half of a plas-
tic connector pair through the board and the other half 
through the dial. Then push the halves together until 
they fit snugly together. Once attached to the board, the 
Threat dials should not be removed.
Be sure to affix the dials in the correct locations: Khorne 
on top, Nurgle to the right, Tzeentch on the bottom, and 
Slaanesh to the left.
Power Sheet Faces
Power Sheet Back

Game Board Breakdown
Old World Map:
 The map of the Old 
World is divided into nine regions. These 
are the areas where follower figures, Chaos 
cards, and corruption tokens are placed in 
the course of play. Each region is defined 
by its name and a number, the latter repre-
senting both its Resistance and Conquest 
Value. Some regions are considered “Popu-
lous” and are so-marked. Arrows indicate 
the order in which the regions are resolved 
during various game phases.
Threat Dials:
 These dials track each Pow-
er’s progress in afflicting the Old World 
with its favored style of depravity. Each 
dial has two windows. The main window 
reveals the progressive benefits that Power 
gains from rotating its dial. The smaller 
window reveals the Threat value associ-
ated with each given dial position. The 
colored tracks around the outside of each 
dial indicate how far each Power must 
advance the main window of its dial to 
win the game by dial advancement. (The 
black portion of each colored track simply 
indicates dead space beneath that portion 
of the dial.)
Victory Point Track: 
Each player moves 
his victory point marker along the victory 
point track to indicate his current victory 
point total. The length of the track is not a 
limit on the number of victory points that 
can be earned.
Old World Deck:
 A convenient space for 
the Old World deck.
Old World Track:
 Old World cards are 
played faceup in the spaces of this track 
to indicate the order in which they will 
expire.
Ruination Cards: 
A convenient space for 
the five ruination cards to be kept before 
they are used to mark ruined map regions.
Old World Map
Threat Dials
Deck
Ruination 
Cards
Track
Victory Point Track

Map Region 
Breakdown
Name:
 The name of the region.
Populous Tag:
 If a region is considered 
Populous, that word appears. If it does 
not appear, the region is not Populous.
Resistance and Conquest Value:
 A single 
number that represents both the region’s 
Resistance statistic and its Conquest 
Value statistic. Note that although the 
same number describes both of these 
statistics’ default values, game effects that 
modify one – i.e., that increase or decrease 
it – do not necessarily apply to the other.
Chaos Card Spaces:
 Each region has two 
areas where Chaos cards can be played.
Region Area:
 All of the area within the 
region border is available for players to 
place their follower figures, or for the 
placement of Old World tokens.
Resistance and 
Conquest Value
Chaos Card Spaces
Region Area
Name
Populous 
Tag
Power Sheet Breakdown
Name and Title:
 The Ruinous Power’s 
unholy name and one of the many de-
scriptive epithets by which it is known.
Draw Phase Instruction: 
Describes how 
many cards that Power draws during each 
round’s draw phase.
Threat Dial Advancement Instruction:
 
Describes the conditions under which that 
Power gains a dial advancement counter.
Round Sequence Reference:
 Lists the 
phases comprising each game round and 
summarizes the activities that take place 
in each.
Flavor Text:
 Describes the Chaos Power’s 
areas of obsession and influence.
Old World Token Reference:
 A guide to 
the names and functions of the six types 
of Old World tokens.
Power Point Track:
 Used, in conjunction 
with the player’s power marker, to track 
that Ruinous Power’s power point total 
over the course of each round’s summon-
ing phase. One value on each track is 
highlighted.
Follower Statistics:
 Three separate areas 
provide information about that Power’s 
Cultists, Warriors, and Greater Daemon. 
Each follower’s summoning cost (within 
the circle), attack value (left of the axe), 
and defense value (left of the shield) are 
listed.

The quantities of the various Old World tokens are 
purposely fixed. If a given type runs out, no additional 
tokens of that type are placed while that stockpile re-
mains depleted.
Chaos Cards
Each Ruinous Power has a unique deck of 24 Chaos 
Cards that only that player can use to attempt to domi-
nate the regions of the game board map, and carry out a 
variety of special activities during play. There is a break-
down of the different parts of a Chaos card on page 13.
Upgr ade Cards
Each Chaos Power has a unique set of five upgrade cards 
comprising two Chaos Power upgrades and three fol-
lower upgrades. These cards are used to record increases 
in the inherent capabilities and follower statistics, re-
spectively, of each Ruinous Power. Each upgrade card’s 
face and back have the same appearance.
Corruption Tok ens
Corruption tokens are placed on the regions of the game 
board map to indicate how much each Ruinous Power 
has defiled that area. Each Chaos Power has a unique 
stock of corruption tokens.
If any Ruinous Power ever runs out of corruption to-
kens, then any convenient markers, such as coins, can be 
used to represent more; the supply of corruption tokens 
should be considered unlimited.
Old World Tok ens
The six types of Old World tokens represent influences 
on the game that originate with the Old World itself, 
rather than with the Ruinous Powers. The six types are:
Event Tokens: Event tokens are used to 
mark the regions where certain extraordi-
nary occurrences described by certain Old 
World cards are occurring.
Hero Tokens: Hero tokens represent the 
mightiest individual denizens of the Old 
World, who lead its fight against the Ruin-
ous Powers.
Noble Tokens: Noble tokens represent the 
notable rulers of the various nations of the 
Old World. 
Peasant Tokens: Peasant tokens represent 
the common denizens of the Old World. 
 
Skaven Tokens: Skaven tokens represent the 
presence and activities of the secretive and 
subversive rat-men of the Old World. 
Warpstone Tokens: Warpstone tokens rep-
resent areas where the strange and Chaos-
aligned substance known as warpstone has 
manifested in the Old World.
Khorne Chaos Card 
Slaanesh Chaos Card 
Nurgle Chaos Card 
Tzeentch Chaos Card 

Old World Cards
Old World cards describe things that happen in the Old 
World in the course of the game. Most of their effects 
manipulate and spawn Old World tokens on the game 
board. Only a subset of all Old World cards, based on 
the number of players participating, is used in any given 
game of Chaos in the Old World.
Dice
Standard six-sided dice are used to resolve battles in 
Chaos in the Old World. They are sometimes called 
“battle dice.” The quantity of dice included in the game 
is not a limit on the number that can be rolled at once 
during play. If additional dice are needed, they can be 
scavenged from other games, or the initial results re-
corded or remembered and the same dice rolled again.
Plastic Follow ers
These plastic figures – known interchangeably as “fol-
lowers” and “figures” – represent the worshippers and 
champions of the Ruinous Powers. They are summoned 
onto the game board to engender corruption, destroy 
enemies, and establish dominance.
Each Ruinous Power controls all of the figures of a 
given color: red for Khorne, green for Nurgle, blue for 
Tzeentch, and purple for Slaanesh.
There are three different classes of followers – Cult-
ists, Warriors, and Greater Daemons – that are com-
mon to all of the gods of chaos. However, each Ruinous 
Power also has a unique, descriptive name for its follow-
ers of each class. The following table summarizes these.
Ruination Cards
Ruination cards are used to mark regions of the game 
board that the Chaos Powers have collectively ruined by 
their pervasive infestation. In addition to marking such 
regions, each ruination card serves as a reference of the 
victory points scored at the time of ruination.
Ruination Cards Faces 
and Common Back
Old World Cards Faces 
and Common Back
Ruination Card 
Breakdown
Order Number:
 
A number that 
indicates the or-
der in which ru-
ination cards are 
used as regions 
are ruined over 
the course of 
the game. (“1” 
is used first, “2” 
is used second, 
and so on.)
“Ruiners Score…” Text:
 A description of 
how many victory points each Power that 
is party to the ruination of a region scores 
during that corruption phase (see “Placing 
Corruption Tokens” on page 19).
Ruination Victory Point Table: 
A table 
listing the number of victory points scored 
by the first- and second-place corruptors in 
the end phase, based on the region ruined 
(see “Score Ruined Regions” on page 20).

Setup
To prepare a game of Chaos in the Old World, play-
ers carry out the following steps.
Place Game Board
: Place the game board in the 
center of the play area. Assemble the Threat dials (see 
page 3) if this game set has never been used before. 
Set each Ruinous Power’s Threat dial so its “start” 
text is visible in its main window (just above the 
three o’clock position).
Distribute Sheets and Arrange Seating:
 Distrib-
ute one Power sheet to each player, either by con-
sensus among the players, or, if no consensus can 
be reached, randomly. If there are fewer than four 
players, return any unused sheets to the box. Then, 
arrange the seating order around the table so players 
will take their turns in clockwise order: Khorne sits 
first, with Nurgle to his left, Tzeentch to Nurgle’s 
left, and Slaanesh to Tzeentch’s left. (Skip over any 
Chaos Powers not being played.)
Distribute Powers’ Cards, Tokens, and Figures
: 
Distribute the power markers, victory point mark-
ers, corruption tokens, Chaos cards, upgrade cards, 
and plastic followers to the appropriate players. If 
there are fewer than four players, return any unused 
components to the box. It is wise for each player to 
tuck his as-yet-unused upgrade cards partway under 
the left or right edge of his Power sheet in a stack, 
so none of the other players will be confused about 
which upgrade cards are in play and which are not.
Place Power Markers and Victory Point Markers:
 
Each player places his power marker on the high-
lighted starting space of the power point track on his 
Power sheet, and places his victory point marker on 
the “0” space of the game board’s victory point track.
Prepare Common Tokens, Ready Dice, and Place 
Ruination Cards: Separate the dial advancement 
counters and Old World tokens into piles by type, 
placing each pile near the board so it can be easily 
reached by all players. Also place the dice near the 
game board, in easy reach of all players. Finally, sort 
the ruination cards into an ordered stack with the 
“1” card on top and the “5” card on the bottom, and 
place this stack on the game board where indicated.
Power
Class
Name
Bloodsworn
Bloodletters
Bloodthirster
Lepers
Plaguebearers
Great Unclean One
Acolytes
Horrors
Lord of Change
Seductresses
Daemonettes
Keeper of Secrets
Note that the Cultist figures of the four Powers share 
the same sculpted shape, while each Power’s Warriors 
and Greater Daemon take forms particularly pleasing to 
the Chaos god in question.
Seductresses
Daemonettes
Keeper of 
Secrets
Acolytes
Horrors
Lord of Change
Lepers
Plaguebearers
Great 
Unclean One
Bloodsworn
Bloodletters
Bloodthirster

In many phases, all four Chaos Powers carry out ac-
tions that are interdependent (i.e., where the actions 
of one Power may depend on the actions of another). 
When this is the case, the players always act in Power 
order: Khorne first, Nurgle second, Tzeentch third, 
and Slaanesh fourth. For convenience, this is the order 
(clockwise from the top) in which the four dials are ar-
ranged on the game board.
The Old World Phase
In the Old World phase, a single card is drawn from 
the top of the Old World deck and its italicized instruc-
tions carried out immediately. These actions should be 
carried out by the player with the lowest Threat (see 
“Threat” on page 22). If the card requires any decisions 
to be made, such as in which region(s) new Old World 
tokens should be placed, the player with the lowest 
Threat makes these decisions.
Unless a given Old World card instructs otherwise, once 
the italicized instructions have been followed, the Old 
World card is placed faceup in the left-hand (“1”) space 
of the Old World card track. Any card previously in the 
“1” space is moved to the “2” space. If a card is moved 
from the “1” space to the “2” space, any card previously 
in the “2” space is removed from play, has no further 
effect, and can be returned to the box.
Certain Old World cards bear the text “Discard this 
card instead of adding it to the Old World track.” 
Such cards can be returned to the game box after their 
instructions have been carried out. The cards on the Old 
World track are not affected and remain in place.
For more information on the effects of Old World cards, 
and the effects of the Old World tokens that most Old 
World cards manipulate, see “Old World Cards” and 
“Old World Tokens,” both on page 24.
Create Old World Deck
: Shuffle all of the Old 
World cards together. Then deal cards facedown 
from the top of this stack to form the Old World 
deck. Deal seven cards for a four-player game, or 
eight cards for a three-player game. Place this deck 
facedown on the game board where indicated. Re-
turn the remaining Old World cards to the box; they 
will not be used this game.
Place Starting Old World Tokens
: Separate two 
Noble tokens, three Warpstone tokens, and four 
Peasant tokens from the main stockpiles and mix 
these nine tokens together. Then randomly choose 
tokens from this pool (such as from one player’s 
cupped hands, or from the box top held above eye 
level) one at a time, placing each on the board as it is 
selected, one per map region, in the standard region 
order (see “Region Order” on page 25). When this is 
done, there should be one token in each region.
Shuffle and Draw Chaos Cards
: Each player 
shuffles his Chaos cards to form a Chaos deck, draws 
a hand of three cards from the top of his deck, and 
places the remainder of the deck near his Power sheet 
and as-yet-unused upgrade cards.
Once these steps have been carried out, gameplay begins 
with the first game round’s Old World phase.
The Game Round
Chaos in the Old World is played in a series of game 
rounds, or rounds. Each game round is made up of 
six phases that always occur in the following order each 
round:
Old World Phase
Draw Phase
Summoning Phase
Battle Phase
Corruption Phase
End Phase
The corruption phase and end phase each have several 
steps, which are always carried out in order. The steps of 
each of these phases are enumerated in “The Corruption 
Phase” and “The End Phase” sections (pages 19 and 20, 
respectively).

The Twin-tailed Comet Icon
Cards with Twin-tailed 
Comet icons bear the image 
shown here near their titles.
Some Old World cards include 
text that reads “[R]emove any 
Old World cards bearing the Twin-tailed 
Comet icon from the Old World track.”
When a card that gives the above instruction 
is placed into play, all Old World cards on 
the Old World card track bearing the Twin-
tailed Comet icon are removed from from 
play before the new event card is added to 
the Old World track. They can be returned 
to the box. Such cards cease to affect the 
game, regardless of whether and how many 
Event tokens remain on the game board.
Example: When the Old World phase 
begins, “Greenskins Invade” and “Warpstone 
Discovery” are present on the Old World track 
in the “1” and “2” spaces, respectively.
The Old World card “Norse Reavers” is 
drawn from the Old World deck. It bears 
the text “[R]emove any Old World cards 
bearing the Twin-tailed Comet icon from 
the Old World track.” Because “Greenskins 
Invade” bears the Twin-tailed Comet icon, it is 
immediately removed from play and returned 
to the box. This leaves the “1” space on the Old 
World track empty.
Next, the rest of the immediate instructions 
(see page 24) on the “Norse Reavers” card are 
carried out, with various Old World tokens 
being removed from and placed on the map. 
Once its immediate instructions have been 
carried out, “Norse Reavers” is added to the 
Old World track. Because there is no card in 
the “1” space at the time it is added, no card is 
displaced to the “2” space, and so the existing 
“Warpstone Discovery” card simply remains 
there. At the end of the Old World phase, the 
Old World track is arranged in this way:
Twin-tailed 
Comet Icon
“Greenskins Invade” 
Removed
“Norse Reavers” 
Drawn

ing Follower Figures” on this page and “Playing Chaos 
Cards” on page 12. When a figure or card with a power 
cost of zero is summoned or played, the power marker is 
not adjusted.
If a player’s turn comes and that player does not wish to 
summon a figure or play a card, he must move his power 
marker to the “0” space of his power point track, and his 
turn ends.
So long as a player has power points remaining, he may 
continue to summon a follower or play a card each time 
his turn comes. However, when a player’s turn comes 
and that player’s power marker is on the “0” space of his 
power point track, that player’s turn is skipped.
The summoning phase ends when all players’ power 
markers are on the “0” spaces of their respective power 
point tracks.
Summoning Follow er Figur es
To place one of his followers on the board during the 
summoning phase (i.e., to summon a figure), a player 
simply does the following:
Chooses one of his available figures.
Pays the selected figure’s cost.
Places the figure on a legal board region.
When choosing a figure, the player may either select one 
of his figures that is not currently on the board, or may al-
ternately select a figure that is already on the board (in the 
latter case, presumably to move it to a different region). 
No matter the source of the figure, it is still considered to 
be “summoned.” To “summon” a figure, “place” a figure, 
and even “move” a figure are all equivalent terms.
To pay the figure’s cost, the player simply adjusts his 
power point track by an amount equal to the figure’s 
cost. If the player does not have enough power remain-
ing, he may not choose that figure.
To place the figure on the board, the player places the 
figure in one of the nine map regions. The only restric-
tion on figure placement is that the figure must be 
placed in a region where that Chaos Power already has 
a figure, or in a region adjacent to such a region. (Ad-
jacent regions are those that share a border.) The only 
exception is that when a given player has no figures on 
the board, he may place his first figure in any region, 
without restriction.
The Draw Phase
During the draw phase, each player draws cards from 
his own Chaos card deck according to the draw phase 
instructions on his Power sheet. If a player’s deck is ever 
exhausted, he shuffles his discards to create a fresh deck.
Note that each player only ever draws cards from his 
own Chaos deck, and never from the decks of the other 
Chaos Powers.
There is no Chaos card hand size limit.
During the draw phase, each player also moves his 
power marker to the highlighted space on his Power 
sheet’s power point track. Alternately, if a player has 
purchased one or more upgrade cards that give him 
extra power points, he moves his marker further than 
the highlighted value, depending on the specifics of the 
upgrade(s) he has purchased.
Note that players never carry over unused power points 
from previous rounds.
Because their activities are not interdependent, all play-
ers may act simultaneously during the draw phase.
Summoning Phase
During the summoning phase, the players summon fol-
lowers and play Chaos cards to the board’s nine regions. 
In each summoning phase, most players will summon a 
number of figures and play several cards.
In the summoning phase, the players take turns act-
ing, following the standard order (Khorne, Nurgle, 
Tzeentch, Slaanesh). After the Slaanesh player acts, the 
Khorne player is next, with this circular order continu-
ing until the summoning phase ends.
Each time a player’s turn to act comes, he may either 
summon (i.e., place) one follower figure on the board, or 
play one Chaos card.
Most follower placement and card play requires the 
player to spend power points. A player spends power 
points by simply moving his power marker leftward to 
reflect his reduced power point total. See “Summon-

Play ing Chaos Cards
To play a Chaos card, a player simply does the 
following:
Chooses a card from his hand of Chaos cards.
Pays the selected card’s cost.
Places the card on an empty card space on any of the 
board’s nine regions and carries out its effects.
To pay a card’s cost, the player simply adjusts his power 
point track by an amount equal to the card’s cost. If the 
player does not have enough power remaining, he may 
not choose that card.
When placing a card on the board, the player must 
place it in an empty card space. There are two such card 
spaces corresponding to each region, one on each side 
of its name-label. If a given region’s spaces are already 
full, the card may not be played to that region. If all 18 
spaces on the board are full, the player may not play a 
Chaos card.
When a Chaos card is played on the board, its effects 
are carried out. Some make an immediate change to the 
state of the game, some have effects that are persistent 
while the card remains in play, and others take effect at 
some specified later time.
If two Chaos cards played to the same region would 
otherwise happen simultaneously, the left-hand (i.e., 
eastern) card is resolved first, and the right-hand card 
resolved second.
Note that the placing player may count a given region 
as occupied by his own figure if he chose the last figure 
in that region to summon. For example, a player who 
picks up his last figure in Norsca in order to summon it 
to a different location may summon that figure to Troll 
Country (which is adjacent to Norsca) even if he has no 
other figures in Troll Country or in any regions adjacent 
to Troll Country.
Example: Brian is playing Khorne. When his turn of the 
summoning phase comes, he plays one of his Bloodsworn 
followers in Troll Country and moves his power marker one 
space down his power track (because his Bloodsworn have a 
cost of one). This is legal because he already has at least one 
figure in the adjacent region of Kislev, and because he has 
enough power left to pay the cost of the Cultist.
Brian would not have been able to play any figure to 
Norsca (because he has no followers in Norsca or in any 
region adjacent to Norsca) and would not have been able to 
summon his Bloodthirster follower to any region (because it 
costs more power points than he has remaining).
Once Brian’s placement has been carried out, the Nurgle 
player’s turn begins.
Brian places a new 
Bloodsworn figure in 
Troll Country…
…and moves his power 
marker one space to 
the left to pay its cost. 
The board’s 18 
Chaos card spaces

resulting hits before regular battle dice are rolled.” If 
Khorne played two copies of “Blood Frenzy” in a given 
region, that player would roll four dice.
Note, however, that some Chaos cards’ effects are obvi-
ously non-cumulative by their nature. For example, 
“Field of Carnage” reads, “No figures other than yours 
may be summoned from this region.” Applying such 
an effect twice clearly yields no additional effect. The 
card “The Skull Throne” is another example. It reads, 
“When adding up your domination value in this region, 
count the sum of your figures’ attack values rather than 
your quantity of figures.” Two copies played in the same 
region would each cause the Khorne player to use his 
sum of attack values rather than his quantity of figures, 
so the effect is non-cumulative.
The effects of Chaos cards are mandatory, assuming 
that they are possible, unless their text notes otherwise. 
For example, the Tzeentch card “Teleport” says, “Move 
any Cultist or Warrior in this region to any other region 
when you play this card.” The Tzeentch player may not 
play this card to a region containing a figure and then 
not move that figure to another region, even if such 
movement would be disadvantageous to Tzeentch. If the 
Tzeentch player played the card to a region containing 
no figures – which is legal – then obviously no figure 
would be moved.
The effects of two Chaos cards with the same name in 
the same region are generally cumulative. For example, 
“Blood Frenzy” reads, “At the beginning of battle in 
this region, you roll two battle dice here and apply any 
Chaos Card Breakdown
Victory Point Track
Title: The name of the card.
Cost: A Chaos card’s cost 
is the number of power 
points that must be spent 
to play this card, which 
is sometimes modified 
by other cards or effects. 
Also, it is the amount this 
card contributes toward its 
player’s domination value in 
the region where it is played 
(see “Calculating Domina-
tion” on page 19), which 
is never modified by other 
cards or effects.
Effect: The special game 
effect this card has, some-
times called the “text ef-
fect” of the card. The word 
“you” in this section always 
refers to the player who 
played the card.
Magic Symbol: When 
this icon is present, the 
card contributes one magic 
symbol to the region in 
question while the card is 
present there. See “Magic 
Symbols” on page 26.

Example: Brian is playing Khorne. When his turn in the 
summoning phase comes, he spends one power point to play 
“The Skull Throne,” a Chaos card, from his hand. He pays 
its cost and then places the card in an empty card space in 
Kislev.
He could not have played his “Reborn in Blood” card, 
because it costs more power points than he has left. He 
could not have played any Chaos card to Troll Country, 
because both card spaces there are already full.
The Nurgle player’s turn begins. The next time Brian’s turn 
comes, it will be skipped, because his power marker is now 
on the “0” space of its track.
Brian places his 
“The Skull Throne” 
card in Kislev…
…and moves his 
power marker one 
space to the left.
Cards With Reminders
Some Chaos cards give instructions intended 
to help players remember their effects, such 
as which particular follower figure is affected 
by a given Chaos card. For example, the 
Tzeentch Chaos card “Warp Shield” says, 
“When you play this card, choose one of 
your figures in this region. That figure can-
not be killed in battle this round. Place it on 
this card to help you remember the chosen 
figure.”
Memory aids of this type never have the force 
of a game rule; when necessary, they should 
be set aside. If the players wish, some alter-
nate memory aid may be introduced.
Example: The Tzeentch player plays “Warp 
Shield” in the Empire, identifies one of his 
Cultists already present there as the target, and 
places that Cultist figure on the “Warp Shield” 
card. Later in the turn, the Tzeentch player 
plays a “Teleport” card in the second Empire 
card space. (Teleport reads,“Move any Cultist 
or Warrior in this region to any other region 
when you play this card.”) The Tzeentch player 
chooses the Cultist protected by “Warp Shield” 
and moves it to Estalia. Nothing about the 
“Warp Shield” card prevents him from choosing 
that Cultist, and the “Warp Shield” card’s 
location is not affected by the play of “Teleport.” 
The “Warp Shield” remains in its Empire card 
space. Critically, the effects of “Warp Shield” – 
that the Cultist in question cannot be killed in 
battle this round – do remain in effect for that 
particular Cultist figure even though it has been 
moved to Estalia. If the players wish, they could 
place the Cultist in Estalia on top of a coin or 
some other marker to help them remember it 
is protected by the effects of the “Warp Shield” 
card even though it is no longer in the Empire.

figures (unless they are controlled by another player – 
see “Control of Enemy Figures” on page 25).
If enough hits are assigned to a figure that they equal 
or exceed its defense value, that figure is tipped onto its 
side to indicate that it has been killed. (However, it will 
not be removed from the board until all players have 
rolled their battle dice for the region; see the next page.)
A Peasant token can only sustain one hit. Immediately 
upon sustaining a hit, a Peasant token is removed from 
the board and placed on the Power sheet belonging 
to the player who 
killed it. (That is, 
Peasant tokens are 
not “tipped” like 
figures are.)
The Battle Phase
In the battle phase, the Chaos Powers’ followers in 
each region fight against one another, as well as against 
Peasant tokens.
Battle is carried out region by region in the standard 
region order (see “Region Order” on page 25). It occurs 
in every region where one player is entitled to roll battle 
dice and has at least one legal target for his hits.
To resolve battle in a given region, each player, in the 
normal player order (i.e., Khorne, Nurgle, Tzeentch, 
Slaanesh), does the following:
Calculates the number of battle dice available to him 
and rolls them. Observing their results, he rolls any 
additional dice gained from explosions.
Assigns hits to legal targets.
Calculating Battle Dice
To calculate the number of battle dice available to a 
player, he totals the attack values of all of his figures in 
that region. Previously tipped figures that remain on the 
board (see below) contribute their attack values normal-
ly. Note that many figures – especially Cultists – have 
an attack value of “0,” and so contribute no dice. Ad-
ditional battle dice may arise from the effects of Chaos 
cards, or other special circumstances. These are simply 
added to the player’s total.
A player must always roll all of the battle dice he is 
entitled to roll.
Once a player’s battle dice are rolled, for each die whose 
result is 4, 5, or 6 the rolling player scores one hit. In 
addition, every result of 6 explodes, which means that 
the attacker rolls one additional battle die immediately 
(which causes an additional hit on a 4, 5, or 6, and 
which explodes again on a 6). There is no limit to the 
number of times a player’s battle dice can explode if he 
continues to roll results of 6. 
Assigning Hits
To assign hits, once all battle dice have been rolled 
(including additional dice from any die explosions), the 
player simply announces, for each hit, which enemy fig-
ure, or Peasant token, he is targeting. Each hit must be 
assigned to a target in the region whose battle is being 
resolved. A player may not allocate hits against his own 
Six-only Hits
The upgrade card for Slaanesh’s Daemonettes 
gives them the special ability that they can 
only be damaged by battle die results of 6. 
This is as simple as it seems: battle dice show-
ing results of 4 and 5, which would normally 
cause hits, cannot be assigned to cause hits 
against upgraded Daemonettes.

Early Hits
Some Chaos cards and upgrade powers give 
players battle dice to roll at the beginning of 
the battle phase or – in the case of upgraded 
Bloodletter figures – “before other figures roll 
their dice.”
Such battle dice can kill adversary figures 
before those figures roll their own battle dice. 
Such casualties should therefore be removed 
from the board immediately when they are 
killed (instead of simply being tipped). How-
ever, early hits are also cumulative with hits 
rolled by the same player’s figures when regular 
battle dice are rolled. This is an exception to 
the normal rule that hits may not be “stored 
up” (see page 17).
Example: A Khorne player uses a “Blood 
Frenzy” Chaos card (which allows him to roll 
two additional battle dice at the beginning 
of the battle phase) in a region where his 
Bloodthirster is attacking Nurgle’s Great 
Unclean One. His “Blood Frenzy” dice results 
are 4 and 5, which both score hits. However, 
these two hits are not enough to kill the Great 
Unclean One, which can sustain three hits. 
In the main part of the battle phase, Khorne’s 
Bloodthirster rolls four additional dice, with 
results of 2, 3, 4, and 5. Two additional hits 
are scored, which, added to the two hits from 
earlier in the phase, is one more than necessary 
to kill the Great Unclean One. The Nurgle 
player also has the opportunity to roll his own 
three battle dice, with results of 1, 3, and 5. 
His single hit is not enough to take out the 
Bloodthirster.
Note that if the “Blood Frenzy” dice had 
exploded, and enough hits generated to kill the 
Great Unclean One outright before the main 
part of the battle phase, then the Great Unclean 
One would have been eliminated from the 
board immediately at that time, and the Nurgle 
player would not have been able to roll the 
Great Unclean One’s battle dice at all.
Combat Example: 
A Three-way Battle
Brian’s forces of Khorne in Kislev consist of 
two Bloodletters. Maria, playing Nurgle, has 
a Great Unclean One present. Finally, Alan, 
playing Tzeentch, has two Acolytes in that 
The battle phase begins. Players act in Power 
order, so Brian is first. Brian is entitled to roll 
four battle dice, because each of his Blood-
letters has an attack value of 2. He rolls 1, 
3, 4, and 6. He counts two hits (from the 4 
and 6). The 6 also explodes, so he rolls one 
additional die, which results in a 5 – another 
hit – for a total of three hits. He applies them 
all to the Great Unclean One, which has a 
defense value of 3. He tips the Great Unclean 
One figure on its side to indicate that it will 
be eliminated.
Maria acts next in the Power order. Her 
Great Unclean One’s attack value is 3, so she 
throws three battle dice and rolls 2, 4, and 5. 
Two hits, no explosions. She applies one hit 
to one of Brian’s Bloodletters and the other 
to one of Alan’s Acolytes, tipping each.
Alan is the last one to act, but his remaining 
Acolyte figure has an attack value of 0, so 
he rolls no battle dice and can’t generate any 
hits.
With all of the dice rolled, the tipped Great 
Unclean One, Bloodletter, and Acolyte are 
removed from the board, leaving one Blood-
letter and one Acolyte remaining in Kislev. 
Battle resolution moves to the next region – 
in this case, the Empire.

A player may not assign fewer hits to a figure than are 
necessary to kill it and thereby “store them up” in order 
to combine hits with other players. That is, different 
players may not “gang up” on the same powerful figure 
within a region.
Excess rolled hits – i.e., those without a legal target – 
are lost. 
A player who has legal targets for rolled hits must assign 
them. A player might not wish to assign hits to his own 
figures that are under the temporary control of another 
player, for example, but nevertheless, must do so if no 
other targets exist.
Once all players have rolled dice and assigned hits, tipped 
units are removed from the board and the next region is 
addressed, until all battle is done for all regions.
Beginning of Battle and 
End of Battle Effects
Note that certain effects – such as from Chaos cards – 
instruct players to carry out certain actions at the be-
ginning or end of the battle phase. Such actions are 
carried out before any player rolls his normal 
battle dice in any region, or after all players 
roll all battle dice in all regions, respectively.
Combat Example: 
Fighting Peasants
In the Border Princes, Khorne is the only 
Chaos Power with any figures present: he has 
a single Bloodletter there. There are also two 
Peasant tokens present.
When the times come to resolve battle in the 
Border Princes, Brian – the Khorne player – 
throws two battle dice, rolling 3 and 4. He 
scores one hit, and uses it to kill one Peasant 
token, which he places on his Power sheet, 
leaving the other one behind, unharmed.
Battle resolution proceeds to the next region.

Combat Example: A Complicated Fight
In Estalia, Brian (Khorne) has one Bloodlet-
ter and one Bloodsworn. Maria (Nurgle) has 
one Great Unclean One, two Plaguebearers, 
and one Leper. Neither of the other Powers 
have any figures present in Estalia. However, 
to complicate matters, Brian played a “Blood 
Frenzy” card in Estalia during the summon-
ing phase, while Maria played a “Rain of 
Pus” card there.
First, “beginning of battle” effects are 
resolved. Brian throws the two battle dice 
specified by his “Blood Frenzy” card, which 
result in rolls of 1 and 6 (one hit and one 
explosion). The additional die from the explo-
sion results in a 4. Brian has generated two 
hits. Normally, it would only take one hit to 
kill a Plaguebearer, but the effects of “Rain of 
Pus” increase each Nurgle figure’s defense by 
one. He uses both hits to kill one of Maria’s 
Plaguebearers. However, it is removed imme-
diately rather than tipped for later removal, 
per the effects of “Blood Frenzy.”
(Brian could have elected, as an alternate 
strategy, to apply his two hits to Maria’s 
Great Unclean One, in hopes of rolling 
at least two more hits to eliminate that 
figure in the main part of the battle phase. 
However, he reasoned that eliminating the 
Plaguebearer would remove one Nurgle bat-
tle die from the equation before it could be 
rolled, and was therefore the better choice.)
With no more “beginning of battle” effects to 
resolve, regular battle dice are rolled beginning 
with Khorne. Brian counts two dice for his 
Bloodletter and no dice from his Bloodsworn. 
He rolls two 4s for two hits. Applying them to 
Maria’s Great Unclean One is illegal because 
they would not be sufficient to kill it, so he 
applies them both to the Leper (whose defense 
value is currently 2 due to “Rain of Pus”) and 
tips it over.
Maria is next. Maria counts three battle dice 
from her Great Unclean One, one from her 
remaining Plaguebearer, and none from her 
Leper. (She receives no battle dice from her 
dead Plaguebearer because “Blood Frenzy” is a 
“beginning of battle” effect and its targets – if 
killed – are removed from play before they can 
roll their regular dice. She receives none from 
her Leper not because it is tipped, but because 
its attack value is 0.) Rolling 1, 2, 3, and 6, 
Maria counts one hit and one explosion. Her 
explosion also results in a 6, for a second hit 
and a second explosion. The second explosion 
results in a 4, for a third hit. She applies one hit 
to Brian’s Bloodletter (tipping it) and one hit to 
Brian’s Bloodsworn (tipping it). Her third hit 
goes to waste for want of any more targets.
Finally, the tipped figures – the Bloodletter, 
Bloodsworn, and Leper – are removed. Battle 
resolution proceeds to the next region with 
only the Great Unclean One remaining alive in 
Estalia. The Chaos cards in Estalia also remain 
in place, for the time being; they will not be 
cleared from the board until the end phase.

represented by precisely the same numeral on the game 
board), they are modified by various effects indepen-
dently. For example, a Skaven Old World token reduces 
a region’s Resistance by one, but does not affect its 
Conquest Value. A Noble Old World token increases a 
region’s Conquest Value by one, but does not affect its 
Resistance.
Example: In the domination step of the corruption phase, 
Khorne has two Bloodsworn followers in Kislev and has 
played the card “The Blood God’s Call” there. Nurgle, 
meanwhile, has a Great Unclean One figure and a “Plague 
Touch” card in Kislev. Khorne’s domination value in 
Kislev is 4 (two figures present, and one card with a cost of 
2), while Nurgle’s domination value is only 1 (one figure 
present, and one card with a cost of 0). Because Khorne has 
the highest domination value, that value is compared to 
the region’s Resistance of 3. Because Khorne’s domination 
value exceeds Kislev’s Resistance, the Khorne player scores 3 
victory points, as Kislev’s Conquest Value is also 3.
Placing Corruption Tok ens
To resolve the corruption step, each region is considered 
in turn, in standard region order (see “Region Order” on 
page 25).
For each region, each player first places one corruption 
token in that region for each of his Cultists there. Then, 
before moving on to the next region, the players count 
the total number of corruption tokens in the region 
(among all players). If this total is 12 or more, that re-
gion is ruined. Warpstone tokens also count as corrup-
tion tokens when calculating this sum (see “Old World 
Tokens” on page 24).
If a region is ruined, the top ruination card from the ru-
ination card stack is placed on that region. (This should 
be the next sequential ruination card that’s available, as 
indicated by order number. For example, if two regions 
have already been ruined in a given game, a newly ru-
ined region would receive the ruination card bearing the 
order number “3.”)
Then, each player who placed at least one corruption 
token in that region during this corruption step imme-
The Corruption Phase
The corruption phase has two steps. In the domina-
tion step, which takes place first, players score conquest 
points for dominating the board regions. In the cor-
ruption step, which is second, players place corruption 
tokens in the regions where they have one or more Cult-
ist followers.
Calculating Domination
To resolve the domination step of the corruption phase, 
each region is considered in turn, in standard region 
order (see “Region Order” on page 25).
For each region, calculate each player’s domination 
value there by adding the summoning costs on any 
Chaos cards that player played in that region to the raw 
quantity of figures that player controls in that region. 
So, to summarize:
Domination Value = 
Sum of Chaos Card Costs + Quantity of Figures
Note that the summoning costs of the figures in question 
are not relevant to the domination value calculation; 
only the actual quantity of figures counts. Thus, one 
Greater Daemon is the equivalent of one Cultist for this 
purpose.
Note also that the printed summoning cost of each Chaos 
card is the factor that is considered when calculating a 
player’s domination value, rather than the number of 
power points actually paid to play the card (in case these 
are different values).
Once domination values have been calculated, the 
player whose domination value is highest compares his 
domination value to the Resistance of the region. If the 
player’s domination value exceeds the region’s Resistance 
(equalling it is not sufficient), that player immediately 
scores victory points equal to that region’s Conquest 
Value.
If two or more players tie for the highest domination 
value in a region, none of them dominate it, and none 
score victory points, even if all tied players exceeded the 
region’s Resistance.
Important Note: Although each region’s initial Re-
sistance and Conquest Value are the same (and are 
Corruption Tokens

The End Phase
The end phase has several steps that occur in order. 
They are:
Remove Chaos Cards from the Board
Resolve Hero Tokens
Resolve Old World Cards
Score Ruined Regions
Advance Threat Dials
Check for Game End
Each step is described below.
R emov e Chaos Cards 
from the Board
Each player removes his played Chaos cards from the 
board and places them in his deck’s discard pile.
R esolv e Hero Tok ens
In each region with a Hero token, the 
player with the greatest Threat who also 
has at least one figure in that region 
must choose one of his figures in that 
region, and remove it from the board.
This process is carried out once for each Hero token 
present, one at a time. If, for example, one player’s last 
figure is eliminated from a region and other players still 
have followers there, subsequent Hero tokens in that 
same region will affect a different player or players.
R esolv e Old World Cards
Players examine the Old World card track and resolve 
any effects that begin with the phrase, “When Old 
World cards are resolved…” Multiple cards with such 
effects are resolved in the order of their position on the 
track. That is, the card in the “1” space of the track is 
resolved before the card in the “2” space. 
Scor e Ruined R egions
For each ruination card placed this round (i.e., for each 
such card still faceup on the board), players score points 
based on the number of their corruption tokens found 
in the ruined region. Ruined regions are scored in stan-
dard region order (see “Region Order” on page 25).
For each ruined region to be scored, the player with the 
most corruption tokens in that region scores the “first” 
value for the region in question (as recorded in the table 
diately scores the number of victory points indicated for 
ruiners on that ruination card. Once the ruiners’ points 
have been scored, the players move on to the next region 
to place corruption tokens. (More points will be scored 
from that ruination card in the end phase.)
If a region would be ruined according to the count of 
corruption tokens there, but no ruination cards remain 
in the stack (because five regions have already been 
ruined), then the region is not ruined, and no points are 
scored for its ruination, either by ruiners (as described 
above) or by the players with the most and second-most 
corruption tokens there (see “Score Ruined Regions” 
later on this page).
Example: In the corruption step of the corruption phase, 
Estalia is already near ruination: four Khorne corruption 
tokens, five Nurgle corruption tokens, and one Slaanesh 
corruption token are already present from previous turns. 
This turn, Khorne and Tzeentch each have one Cultist 
figure present, while Nurgle has three Cultists. Thus, the 
Khorne player places one new Khorne corruption token, the 
Tzeentch player places one new corruption token, and the 
Nurgle player places three new corruption tokens. Then, 
the total number of corruption tokens among all players 
is counted, providing a total of 15 (5 Khorne tokens + 8 
Nurgle tokens + 1 Tzeentch token + 1 Slaanesh token). The 
region is ruined because the total is 12 or more.
This is the first ruination in 
this game, so the ruination 
card with the order number 
“1” is placed in Estalia. 
That card reads, “Ruiners 
Score 3 Points Each,” so 
the Khorne, Tzeentch, and 
Nurgle players each score 3 
victory points immediately, 
because they all placed 
corruption tokens in the 
region during this step. 
Slaanesh does not score 
any victory points, because 
although there is one 
Slaanesh corruption token 
present in the region, it was not placed during this step.
Khorne and Nurgle will also score additional points for 
their part in Estalia’s ruination in the end phase, but those 
points are not recorded yet.
The First Ruination Card
Hero Token

Advance Thr eat Dials
Throughout the game round, the Powers collect dial 
advancement counters on their Threat dials (see “Dial 
Advancement Conditions and Counters” on page 22).
In this step, every player who has one or 
more advancement counters on his dial 
advances his dial by one clockwise tick 
and carries out the instruction revealed.
Additionally, the player with the most 
counters on his dial advances his dial 
by one additional tick, carrying out the instruction 
revealed. If two or more players are tied for the most 
counters, no player scores an additional tick.
For a full description of the effects of each dial instruc-
tion, see “Dial Instructions” on page 23.
Once all players have advanced their dials, all dial ad-
vancement counters are returned to the stockpile.
Example: At the end of the first game round, there are two 
dial advancement counters on Khorne’s Threat dial, one 
counter on Nurgle’s dial, one counter on Tzeentch’s dial, 
and no counters on Slaanesh’s dial. Khorne, Nurgle, and 
Tzeentch each advance their dials by one tick and carry 
out the newly revealed instructions. Specifically, Khorne 
scores 4 victory points, Nurgle scores 3 victory points, and 
Tzeentch places one Warpstone token on the board. Then, 
because Khorne has the most advancement counters (and is 
not tied with any other player for this honor), Khorne’s dial 
is advanced a second tick. Khorne selects and puts into play 
an upgrade card, per the newly revealed instruction.
Then, all advancement counters are cleared from all Threat 
dials, and are returned to the stockpile.
on the ruination card). Then, the player with the second-
most corruption tokens in that region scores the “sec-
ond” value for the region in question.
If only one player has corruption tokens in the region 
in question, only the “first” value is scored for that 
ruination.
If two or more players tie for the most corruption 
tokens in the region, the “first” and “second” values are 
summed and divided by the number of tied players to 
determine how many victory points each of those play-
ers scores. Fractional victory points are not scored (i.e., 
round down). In such cases, no other (i.e., no non-tied) 
players score points.
If there is no tie for the most corruption tokens in the 
region, and if two or more players tie for the second-
most tokens, the “second” value is divided by the num-
ber of tied players to determine how many victory points 
each of those players scores. Once again, fractional 
victory points are not scored.
Once these points are awarded, the ruination card is 
turned facedown in that region, marking it as perma-
nently ruined (see “Ruined Regions” on page 25), and 
all corruption tokens are cleared from the region.
Example: In continuation of the example on the previous 
page, a ruination card is faceup in Estalia during the end 
phase, where Nurgle has eight corruption tokens, Khorne 
has five corruption tokens, Tzeentch has one corruption 
token, and Slaanesh has one corruption token.
The players refer to the ruination card and see that the 
Estalia values for “first” and “second” on this ruination 
card are 9 and 4, respectively. Nurgle has the most 
corruption tokens of any Power, so Nurgle scores 9 victory 
points. Khorne has the second-most, so Khorne scores 4 
victory points. Neither Tzeentch nor Slaanesh score any 
victory points.
The ruination card is turned facedown, and Estalia is 
considered ruined. All corruption tokens in Estalia are 
returned to their players’ stockpiles.
Dial 
Advancement 
Counter
Each player with at least one advancement counter on his dial 
advances his dial one tick. The player with the most counters – in 
this case, the Khorne player – advances his dial a second tick.

Other Rules
The following sections contain additional rules for play-
ing Chaos in the Old World.
The Threat Dials
The Threat dials found on the game board are an 
important part of Chaos in the Old World. The sec-
tions that follow give more information about how they 
function.
Thr eat
For each text instruction that appears in the main win-
dow of a given Threat dial, a smaller window also reveals 
a corresponding number. This number is that Chaos 
Power’s Threat value, or Threat. Certain rules and 
cards often call for the player with the highest or lowest 
Threat to do something or to be affected by some effect.
Dial Advancement 
Conditions and Counters
Each Chaos Power has a unique dial advancement 
condition, which is found on its Power sheet. Each time 
that Power fulfills that condition, that player immedi-
ately places one dial advancement counter on his Threat 
dial. (The counter can be placed anywhere on the dial 
that does not obscure either its main window or its 
Threat window.) Multiple advancement counters can – 
and frequently will – be placed on each Power’s dial over 
the course of a given game round.
In the end phase, each Power who has placed dial ad-
vancement counters this round cashes them in for dial 
advancements (see “Advance Threat Dials” on page 21).
Example: It is the corruption step of the corruption phase, 
and Slaanesh has one Acolyte in the Empire, two Acolytes 
in Bretonnia, and three Acolytes in Estalia. Slaanesh’s dial 
advancement condition is “Place 2+ corruption tokens in 
Check for Ga me End
If any of the following four conditions are true, the 
game ends:
The game ends if one or more players’ Threat dials 
have reached their “Victory” dial instruction.
The game ends if one or more players have scored 50 
or more victory points.
The game ends if five regions have been ruined.
The game ends if the Old World card deck is empty.
Each condition, and how the winner is determined for 
each, is described below.
Note that the four conditions are checked in order, and 
the game ends immediately when one of them is true. 
Further game-ending conditions are not checked once 
the game has ended, and players may not win by fulfill-
ing them. For example, if one player wins by Threat 
dial advancement, it is not relevant that another player 
has more than 50 victory points; the first player wins as 
described under “Maximum Threat,” below. 
Maximum Threat
If one player has turned his Threat dial to the maximum 
level of Threat (i.e., the word “Victory” appears in his 
dial’s main window), that player wins. If more than one 
player reaches this level, the tied player with more vic-
tory points wins. If some players remain tied, the victory 
is shared among them.
Fifty Victory Points
If one player has earned 50 or more victory points, that 
player wins. If more than one player has earned 50 or 
more victory points, the player with the most victory 
points wins. If some players are tied, the tied player with 
the highest Threat wins.
Five Regions Ruined
If five regions have been ruined, the player with the 
most victory points wins. If some players are tied, the 
tied player with the highest Threat wins.
Exhausted Old World Deck
If no cards remain in the Old World deck, the denizens 
of the Old World have weathered the war between the 
Chaos Powers, and all players lose.
Khorne’s Threat dial. 
Khorne’s current Threat 
value – also simply called 
Khorne’s “Threat” – is 3.

Dial Instructions
Each of the instructions that can be revealed on the four 
Ruinous Powers’ Threat dials is explained below.
Carrying out an instruction when it is revealed is not 
optional, unless conditions are insufficient to allow 
it. For example, the only way a player who reveals a 
“Remove 2 Old World Tokens” instruction can avoid 
doing so is if there are not enough Old World tokens 
in play to remove. In such a case, the player would 
remove as many as possible and disregard the rest of the 
instruction.
Draw X Chaos Cards: That player draws the listed 
number of Chaos cards from his deck and adds them to 
his hand.
Place X Nobles: That player takes the listed number of 
Noble tokens from the stockpile and places them in any 
region or regions of the game board.
Place X Warpstone: That player takes the listed number 
of Warpstone tokens from the stockpile and places them 
in any region or regions of the game board.
[Power] Start (e.g., “Khorne Start”): Marks the place 
where that Power’s main window begins the game. This 
instruction has no other effect.
[Power] Victory! (e.g., “Khorne Victory!”): The Ruin-
ous Power named in the instruction wins the game, sub-
ject to ties and other end phase instructions (see “Check 
for Game End” on page 22).
Remove X Corruption: That player removes the listed 
number of corruption tokens, belonging to any Chaos 
Power or combination of Chaos Powers, from the board. 
Remove X Old World Tokens: That player removes 
the listed number of Old World tokens, of any type 
or types, from the game board, returning them to the 
stockpile.
Score X VP: That player scores the listed number of 
victory points.
Upgrade Card: That player chooses one of his upgrade 
cards that he has not yet placed into play and places it 
into play. See “Playing Upgrade Cards” on page 26.
the same region.” So, each time the Slaanesh player places 
two or more corruption tokens in the same region, that 
player places one dial advancement counter on the Slaanesh 
Threat dial.
When the Empire is addressed in the corruption step, the 
Slaanesh player places one corruption token there. This does 
not call for the placement of a dial advancement counter, 
because two or more corruption tokens must be placed for 
that. When Bretonnia is addressed, the Slaanesh player 
places two corruption tokens there, which triggers the dial 
advancement condition, and so a dial advancement token 
is placed on the Slaanesh dial. When Estalia is addressed, 
three Slaanesh corruption tokens are placed there, and a 
single dial advancement token is placed on the Slaanesh 
dial.
At the end of the corruption step, there are two dial 
advancement tokens on the Slaanesh advancement dial.
Note that a single event cannot trigger the placement 
of multiple dial advancement tokens due to an excess 
of some quantity related to the Ruinous Power’s dial 
advancement condition.
Example: Khorne’s dial advancement condition is “Kill 
2+ enemy creatures in the same region.” If Khorne were to 
kill four (or more) enemy creatures in some region during a 
particularly bloody combat phase, the Khorne player would 
still only place a single dial advancement counter on the 
Khorne Threat dial.

Old World Tokens
Six different types of Old World tokens affect gameplay. 
Each is described below.
Most Old World tokens are introduced to the board via 
Old World cards, but other effects (such as dial advance-
ment instructions and Chaos cards) can also place Old 
World tokens in play, remove them from the board, and 
move them from region to region.
Event Tokens: Event tokens have no 
effects of their own. Instead, they mark 
the regions affected by the persistent ef-
fects of certain Old World cards. If Event 
tokens remain in play after all cards that 
define their Event token effects have been 
removed from the Old World card track, 
those Event tokens remain, but have no 
effect on play until such time as a new Old 
World card redefines them.
Hero Tokens: Hero tokens in a region 
eliminate figures from play in that region. 
See “Resolve Hero Tokens” on page 20.
Noble Tokens: Each Noble token in a 
region increases that region’s Conquest 
Value by one. (This does not affect that 
region’s Resistance.)
Peasant Tokens: Peasant tokens have 
no effects of their own. Instead, they are 
available targets for battle in the regions 
they occupy (see “The Battle Phase” on 
page 15). Certain Old World cards, when 
drawn, award victory points to players who 
have claimed Peasant tokens in battle.
Skaven Tokens: Each Skaven token in a 
region decreases that region’s Resistance 
by one. (This does not affect that region’s 
Conquest Value.)
Warpstone Tokens: Each Warpstone 
token in a region counts as the equivalent 
of one corruption token when determin-
ing whether that region is ruined in the 
corruption phase (see “Placing Corruption 
Tokens” on page 19).
Old World Cards
There are two different kinds of instructions presented 
on Old World cards: immediate instructions and per-
sistent effects. Immediate instructions are presented 
in italics, while persistent effects are recorded in non-
italicized text. All cards have immediate instructions, 
but only some cards have persistent effects.
The immediate instructions on an Old World card are 
carried out right away when that card is drawn.
The persistent effects on an Old World card are only car-
ried out when that card is on the Old World track, and 
even then only at certain points in each game round.
The persistent effects of most cards are carried out in the 
Old World cards step of the end phase (see “The End 
Phase” on page 20). Some Old World cards, however, 
specify that their effect is constant (with text such as 
“While this card remains in play…”) or is carried out 
at some other time (with text such as “At the beginning 
of the battle phase…”). If a particular Old World card 
does not specify when its 
persistent effect is carried 
out, the effect is carried 
out in the Old World cards 
step of the end phase.
Persistent 
Effects
Immediate 
Instructions
Some Old World 
cards, like this one, 
have only immediate 
instructions, and no 
persistent effects.

Ruined Regions
When a region is ruined (i.e., when a ruined region card 
is found there, either faceup or facedown), the following 
rules affect that region:
New Chaos cards cannot be played to that region.
New Old World tokens cannot be placed in that 
region (although existing Old World tokens are not 
necessarily removed at the time of ruination).
During the corruption phase, no victory points are 
scored for dominating that region (i.e., domination is 
not checked for that region).
During the corruption phase, no corruption tokens 
are placed in that region.
All other normal rules for regions remain in effect for 
ruined regions. Battle still occurs in a ruined region 
each round, such a region is still adjacenct to other 
regions, it still occupies the same slot in the standard 
region order, and so on.
Control of Enemy Figures
When one player uses an effect that gives him “con-
trol” of an enemy figure, then for the duration of the 
effect, it is as if the figure was of the controlling player’s 
color. The controlling player thus rolls battle dice for 
that figure, places a corruption token of his own color 
during the corruption phase, and so forth.
Note, however, that during the duration of the control 
effect, the figure retains its normal statistics (so, for 
example, if the original owner had upgraded his figures 
of that type, the upgrade remains in effect).
Region Order
When some activity – such as battle – must be carried 
out in multiple regions at the same time, these activities 
are always carried out region by region, in the following 
order:
Norsca
Troll Country
Kislev
The Empire
Bretonnia
Estalia
Tilea
The Border Princes
The Badlands
9.	
When the activity being carried out is not relevant to a 
particular region – if, for example, there are no combat-
ants in some region during the battle phase – that region 
is simply skipped.
When an activity is carried out in region order, earlier 
resolutions can affect later resolutions. That is, activi-
ties carried out in region order are not considered to be 
simultaneous. For example, if several regions are ruined 
in a given end phase, earlier ruination cards are placed 
in the regions that come earlier in the region order. If 
the ruination cards run out – recall that there are only 
five – then it’s possible that regions later in the region 
order will not be ruined at all, and players who might 
otherwise be due to score victory points will not score 
them.
The region order arrows on the game board provide a 
convenient reminder of the standard region order. Play-
ers can simply begin resolution at the top of the board 
with Norsca and follow the arrows between adjacent 
regions until they finish with the Badlands in the south.

Magic Symbols
Magic symbols appear most frequently on 
Chaos cards. Magic symbols have no game 
effect of their own, but their presence in a 
region is used to resolve other effects, such 
as Tzeentch’s dial advancement condition.
Note that certain effects can impart magic symbols to 
figures. Obviously, the icon above does not appear in 
those cases, but the figure in question is still said to 
“have” those magic symbols, and they can still be used 
to trigger effects that require their presence, wherever 
that figure is located.
Contradictory Effects
From time to time, different Chaos card effects, follower 
abilities, Old World card effects, and the like may come 
into apparent conflict, with one effect enabling some ac-
tion while another disables the very same thing. In such 
instances, the disabling effect trumps the enabling effect.
For example, the Khorne Chaos card “Battle Cry” reads, 
“No corruption tokens may be placed in this region 
during this round,” while the Nurgle Chaos card “The 
Stench of Death” reads, “If you dominate this region, 
place two corruption tokens here.” If both cards were 
found in the same region at the same time, the Nurgle 
player would not place corruption tokens when domi-
nating the region, because the disabling effect takes 
precedence.
Playing Upgrade Cards
Each Chaos Power has a deck of five upgrade cards. 
There are two types of upgrade cards: follower up-
grades and Chaos Power upgrades.
Upgrade cards enter play when a player reveals the “Up-
grade Card” instruction when advancing his Threat dial. 
Each time that instruction is revealed, that player may 
choose one available upgrade card and place it into play. 
“Available,” in this case, simply means a card belonging 
to that player that has not yet been placed into play.
When a follower upgrade card is placed into play, that 
player announces which upgrade he has chosen and 
places the card over the corresponding pre-printed 
follower statistics on his Power sheet (allowing it to pro-
trude below the Power sheet). The upgrade card statistics 
and abilities replace those that the card covers up.
When a player places a Chaos Power upgrade card 
into play, that player announces which upgrade he has 
chosen and places the card faceup in any convenient 
area adjacent to his Power sheet that makes it clear to all 
players that the card is in play.
A follower upgrade card – Khorne’s 
Bloodsworn upgrade, in this case – is 
placed over the pre-printed Bloodsworn 
statistics on the Khorne power sheet. 
The upgrade card’s statistics and 
abilities replace those that it covers.
Magic Symbol

Designer’s Notes
“Players take on the roles of the four Ruinous Powers 
of Chaos and attempt to corrupt the world.”
When Christian Petersen pitched me that 
concept for a board game, my first thought was 
that they wanted me to redevelop an old Games 
Workshop classic. 
“No, Eric. We want you to design this game.”
My world was officially rocked. A brand new 
Warhammer fantasy board game, and based on 
what is possibly the coolest aspect of the mythol-
ogy to boot! The initial meeting continued, but 
I was already in another world, stunned by the 
possibilities before me.
I spent the following weekend in a fevered state 
of inspired excitement. I read more Warhammer 
in two days than in previous years. There were 
hourly stretches where I became lost in the rich-
ness and complexity of the backstory. While I 
was never a heavy miniatures gamer, the mythol-
ogy has always interested me.
My design goals were simple: To create a simple 
but rich territory control game in which play-
ers felt a strong connection to their “characters,” 
and in which the world itself felt more alive and 
dynamic than in most games of this category. For 
Warhammer fans, I wanted to do justice to the 
uniqueness of each of Chaos’s four aspects. For 
those new to the world, I wanted the gameplay 
experience to give players some insight into the 
Ruinous Powers’ personalities. 
It was important that each of the four play quite 
differently. From the beginning I knew that 
each would have a unique alternate path to 
victory that reflected the nature of its power. 
The challenge was in making sure that both 
victory conditions dovetailed throughout the 
course of play. In this way, players would each 
have a unique, intersecting approach to ruin-
ing the world rather than playing four games of 
solitaire. 
In addition, I wanted the game to feel slightly 
different if any of the Ruinous Powers were 
absent from play. For example, in a three-player 
game without a Khorne player, there would be 
less combat overall, resulting in an increased fo-
cus on ruination. Conversely, without Tzeentch, 
there would be less dynamic movement around 
the board and tactics would be more predictable.
One issue I wrestled with was the opposing 
relationships between Khorne and Slaanesh 
on one hand, and Nurgle and Tzeentch on the 
other. Each of those pairs harbors a loathing for 
the other that needed some representation in the 
game. However, I was wary of overdoing this 
and creating bad three-player game experiences 
where one player would win by sheer virtue of 
having no specific foil. Instead, I tried to imple-
ment this more subtly in card interactions. For 
example, the way some of Khorne’s Chaos cards 
encourage more battles and Slaanesh’s tactically 
avoid battles altogether provide an interesting 
dynamic that also interacts with other players in 
the process.
This is one of the most exciting game design proj-
ects I have ever worked on, and I am extremely 
happy with the results. I’d like to thank Jeff Tid-
ball and Tim Uren for their superb development 
work, and Kevin Childress, Andrew Navaro, 
Brian Schomburg, and WiL Springer for the eye-
popping graphic design.
I hope you enjoy playing the game as much as I 
did designing it. Skulls for the Skull Throne!

Playing Nurgle
Nurgle is the Great Lord of Decay, who presides over physi-
cal corruption and morbidity. Nurgle can truly be called 
the father of all pestilence, for his immense frame is home to 
every disease known to mortals.
nurgle Str ategy
Your key strength is that your figures are cheap and 
plentiful. Also, your Chaos cards and dial advance-
ments help you dominate the best regions turn after 
turn, and prevent them from being ruined too early.
It is easier for you to win by scoring victory points 
than advancing your Threat dial. Even so, try to 
score at least one dial advancement each round, for 
the benefit it gives.
When placing your figures, concentrate on the Popu-
lous regions. But beware of placing too many corrup-
tion tokens in regions you can’t also dominate.
Avoid competing with other players in highly 
contested regions. Try to score in regions the other 
players ignore.
Your low-defense figures are attractive targets for 
Khorne. Avoid spreading them too widely, since Khorne 
advances his dial by killing figures in many different 
regions.
Tzeentch gains dial advancements from corrupting areas 
containing at least two Warpstone tokens and/or magic 
symbols. Competing for domination of such areas is 
rarely worthwhile, unless they are high-value Populous 
regions.
Slaanesh gains dial advancements from corrupting areas 
containing Noble and Hero tokens. Competing for 
domination of such areas is rarely worthwhile, unless 
they are high-value Populous regions.
Playing Khorne
No subtlety has Khorne. He has no yearning for beauty of 
form in his black heart, for he is the Blood God, the Skull-
taker. Within his immortal frame there is room for rage 
alone, and slaughter is his only desire.
Khorne Str ategy
Your key strength is battle. Your Warriors roll two 
dice in battle, which is unique among the other 
Chaos Powers.
It is easier for you to win by advancing your Threat 
dial than by accumulating victory points. Try to get 
two dial ticks every round, if you can.
Spread your forces out to kill your enemies in as 
many regions as possible each round.
Nurgle is usually the most ripe target for attack, fol-
lowed by Slaanesh, and then Tzeentch.
Nurgle’s Cultists are easy targets often found in the 
Populous regions. Prevent him from gaining a strong 
foothold in those areas, or he has the potential for mas-
sive point-scoring once regions begin falling to ruin.
Tzeentch gains dial advancements from corrupting 
areas containing at least two Warpstone tokens and/
or magic symbols. Because he must place two corrup-
tion tokens to place dial advancement tokens, killing a 
single Tzeentch Cultist in such a region can often foil 
his plans.
Slaanesh gains dial advancements from corrupting areas 
containing Noble and Hero tokens. Those are good 
places to battle against him.

Playing Tzeentch
Tzeentch is the Changer of Ways, the Weaver of All Fates, 
the Great Conspirator, and the architect of the fate of the 
universe. He takes great delight in the plotting and politick-
ing of others, and favors the cunning over the strong, the 
manipulative over the violent.
Tzeentch Str ategy
Your key strength is your Chaos deck. It has many 
useful free and low-cost cards, and your draw ability 
lets you replace all of the cards you play every round 
(so play as many as you can, every round!).
Pay attention to the regions that begin with Warp-
stone tokens. They are key to your dial advancements 
early in the game.
Conserve your power points early in each round’s 
summoning phase by playing free or low-cost cards. 
Make the other players commit their resources first.
You can realistically win by either advancing your 
dial or scoring victory points. Keep your options 
open for as long as you can.
Khorne is more effective at dial advancement than scor-
ing victory points. He scores dial advancement counters 
by killing enemies in many different regions. Avoid giv-
ing him easy targets.
Nurgle is more effective at scoring victory points than 
dial advancements. He can come on very strong near the 
end of the game when regions start falling to ruination.
Slaanesh can realistically win by either dial advance-
ment or victory points. Figure out his victory strategy as 
soon as you can, and act accordingly. Slaanesh advances 
his dial by corrupting regions containing Hero or Noble 
tokens.
Playing Slaanesh
Slaanesh is master of cruel passions and hidden vices, and 
of terrible temptations. It is impossible for a mortal to 
look upon Slaanesh without losing his soul, for all who see 
Slaanesh become slaves to his slightest whim.
Sla anesh Str ategy
Your key strength is flexibility. You have useful 
Chaos cards, a simple dial advancement condition, 
and the capability to use your opponents’ resources 
against them.
Concentrate on the Noble tokens early in the game. 
Either enter those regions in force, or use your “Dark 
Influence” cards to bring those tokens to regions 
where you are already strong.
Adjust your strategy as the game unfolds. Play for a 
dial advancement win if more Noble and Hero to-
kens appear early in the game, or a victory point win 
if Khorne is strong or your opponents leave valuable 
regions uncontested.
Act opportunistically: use “Perverse Infiltration” 
cards for easy points just as regions are ruined, and 
control key Cultists belonging to your opponents for 
additional corruption tokens and to swing closely 
contested regions to you.
Khorne is more effective at dial advancement than scor-
ing victory points. He scores dial advancement counters 
by killing enemies in many different regions. Avoid giv-
ing him easy targets.
Nurgle is more effective at scoring victory points than 
dial advancements. He can come on very strong near the 
end of the game when regions start falling to ruination. 
Look for opportunities to hurt Nurgle and help yourself 
at this stage.
Tzeentch can realistically win by either dial advance-
ment or victory points. Tzeentch gains dial advance-
ments from corrupting areas containing at least two 
Warpstone tokens and/or magic symbols.

Credits
Game Design: Eric M. Lang
Game Development: Jeff Tidball with Tim Uren
Creative Consultants: JR Godwin and Jay Little
Editing: Mark O’Connor
Graphic Design: Kevin Childress, Andrew Navaro, Brian 
Schomburg, and WiL Springer
Cover and Logo Design: Kevin Childress 
Board Design: Andrew Navaro
Figure Design: Michael Jaecks
Playtest Coordinator: Robert A. Kouba
Playtesters: Bryan Bornmueller, Bill Cauble, Kevin 
Childress, Cody Cosgrove, Luke Cosgrove, Galen Farah, 
Robert Flick, Nate French, JR Godwin, Christina Gyimesi, 
James Hata, Terri Hoff, Steve Horvath, Evan Kinne, 
Andrew Konen, Corey Konieczka, Rob Kouba, Gavin 
Larson, Jay Little, Paul Lertola, Jonathan Moriarity, Randy 
Munce, Andrew Navaro, Paul Neumann, Scott Page, 
Casey Ryan, Mark Schell, Shaun Schreiner, WiL Springer, 
Jason Steinhurst, Matthew Tee, Jason Walden, Mike 
Westerbur, Dylan Westerbur, John Wibben, Kevin Wilson, 
and Ansley Zampino
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
Producer: Jeff Tidball
Executive Developer: Christian T. Petersen
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Games Workshop
Licensing Manager: Owen Rees
Licensing & Acquired Rights Manager: Erik Mogensen
Head of Legal & Licensing: Andy Jones
Intellectual Property Manager: Alan Merrett
Special thanks to the Games Workshop Design 
Studio for their amazing and creative work. 
w w w.FantasyFlightGames.com
1975 County Road B2, Suite 1
Roseville, MN 55113
United States of America 
651-639-1905
Index
adjacent (regions), 11–12
battle, 15–18
battle dice. See dice
battle phase, 9, 15
Chaos cards, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 
12–13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 23, 
25, 26
control (of followers), 25
combat. See battle
Conquest Value, 4, 5, 19
corruption phase, 9, 19–20
corruption step, 19–20
corruption token, 6, 8, 19, 
20–21, 23, 25
Cultist, 5, 6–7
dial advancement counter, 3, 
21, 22–23
dial instructions, 23
dice, 7, 15, 16
domination, domination 
step, domination value, 19
draw phase, 5, 9, 11
end phase, 9, 20–22, 24
explode, 15
Event token, 6, 24
figure. See follower
follower, 5, 7–8, 11, 26
game board, 3, 4, 8
game round, 9
Greater Daemon, 5, 6–7
Hero token, 6, 20, 24
hit, 15, 16, 17
immediate instructions (on 
Old World cards), 24
Khorne, 2, 8, 28
magic symbol, 13, 26
“move” (a follower). See 
summon
Noble token, 6, 19, 23, 24
Nurgle, 2, 8, 28
object of the game, 2
Old World cards and deck, 
4, 7, 9, 10, 20, 22, 24, 26
Old World phase, 9
Old World tokens, 6, 9, 23, 
24, 25
Old World track, 4, 9, 10
Peasant token, 6, 15, 17, 24
persistent effects (of Old 
World cards), 24
phase, 9
place (a follower). See 
summon
Populous (regions), 4, 5
Power order, 9
power points, power marker, 
power track, 3, 5, 11, 12, 
Power sheets, 3, 5, 8, 26
region, 4, 5, 11–12, 19–20, 
20–21, 25
region order, 4, 25
“reminder”, 14
Resistance, 4, 5, 19
round. See game round
ruination, ruined regions, 
ruiner, 19–20, 20–21, 22, 
ruination card, 4, 7, 8, 
19–20, 20–21
setup, 8–9
Skaven token, 6, 19, 24
Slaanesh, 2, 8, 29
summon, 11–12
summoning phase, 9, 11–12
target (in battle), 15, 17
text effect (of a Chaos card), 
13, 14
Threat, Threat dial, 2, 3, 4, 
5, 21, 22, 22–23
tick, 2, 21
tipped followers, 15, 17
Twin-tailed Comet icon, 10
Tzeentch, 2, 8, 29
upgrade cards, 6, 8, 16, 23, 
victory conditions, 2, 22, 23
victory points, victory point 
marker, victory point 
track, 3, 4, 8, 20, 20–21, 
22, 23
Warpstone token, 6, 19, 23, 
Warrior, 5, 6–7

Glossary
adjacent: The relationship between two different regions 
where they share a border.
battle phase: The fourth phase of the game round, in which 
the Powers’ followers fight each other in each region.
Chaos Power upgrade: A class of upgrade cards that increase 
a Chaos Power’s abilities directly.
Chaos Powers: See “Ruinous Powers.”
class: The category – Cultist, Warrior, or Greater Daemon – 
that a given follower belongs to.
Conquest Value: The characteristic that represents how 
rewarding it is to dominate a particular region.
corruption phase: The fifth phase of the game round, in 
which the players calculate domination and score victory 
points for each region in turn, and place corruption tokens 
in the various regions.
corruption step: The second step of the corruption phase, 
in which the players place corruption tokens in the regions 
where they have Cultists. Each region is also checked for 
ruination at this time.
cost: The characteristic of a figure or Chaos card describing 
how many power points must be spent to put it into play.
Cultist: A category of follower, the least combat-worthy in 
the game, but capable of corrupting regions.
domination step: The first step of the corruption phase, in 
which the players determine which Power – if any – scores 
each region’s Conquest Value as victory points.
domination value: The sum calculated by each player in 
each region during the domination step of the corruption 
phase to determine if he dominates that region.
draw phase: The second phase of the game round, in which 
each player draws Chaos cards and recovers power points.
end phase: The sixth and final phase of the game round, in 
which the players remove Chaos cards from the board, 
resolve the effects of Hero tokens, resolve the effects of 
certain Old World cards, score victory points for regions 
ruined earlier in the round, advance their Threat dials, and 
check to see whether the game ends.
explosion: When a battle die roll results in a 6 and gives the 
player who rolled it an additional battle die to roll.
figure: See “follower.”
follower upgrades: A class of upgrade cards that increase the 
capabilities of a Power’s followers.
follower: A sculpted plastic playing piece of any of the three 
types.
game round: One iteration of the game’s six phases.
gods: See “Ruinous Powers.”
Greater Daemon: A category of follower, the most powerful 
in the game.
hit: A battle die result – typically a 4, 5, or 6 – with the 
potential to eliminate, on its own or in multiples, an op-
ponent’s figure(s).
immediate instructions: The italicized text found on every 
Old World card, carried out when that card is drawn.
Khorne: One of the four Ruinous Powers of Chaos, the lord 
of death and battle.
magic symbol: An icon appearing in the upper right hand 
corner of certain Chaos cards, and also an effect created 
by certain other events and powers. Magic symbols have 
no game effects of their own, but are referred to by other 
cards, powers, and abilities.
Nurgle: One of the four Ruinous Powers of Chaos, with 
dominion over filth, disease, and corruption. 
Old World phase: The first phase of the game round, in 
which a card is drawn from the Old World deck and its 
effects carried out.
persistent effects: The non-italicized text found on some Old 
World cards, carried out either at a time specified by the 
text itself, or in the end phase.
phase: One of the six activity-specific divisions of the game 
round, which are the Old World phase, draw phase, sum-
moning phase, battle phase, corruption phase, and end 
phase. The six phases are always carried out in order.
Populous: A type of region, denoted with the word “Popu-
lous” in its title bar. A given region can be either Populous 
or not Populous. Populousness has no effect of its own, but 
Populous regions are referred to by other game effects.
Power order: The order in which the Ruinous Powers most 
frequently act. The standard Power order is Khorne first, 
Nurgle second, Tzeentch third, and Slaanesh fourth.
power point: The currency with which the players play 
Chaos cards, summon figures, and carry out certain other 
actions. 
Powers: See “Ruinous Powers.”
region: One of the nine geographical divisions of the map 
portion of the game board.
Resistance: The characteristic that represents how difficult it 
is to dominate a particular region.
round: See “game round.”
Ruinous Powers: The four gods of Chaos collectively: 
Khorne, Nurgle, Tzeentch, and Slaanesh.
Slaanesh: One of the four Ruinous Powers of Chaos, the 
prince of pleasure and pain.
step: Some phases are subdivided; these subdivisions are 
called steps.
summon: To place a follower on a new region. A figure can 
be summoned from either a player’s stockpile or a different 
summoning phase: The third phase of the game round, in 
which the players take turns playing Chaos cards and sum-
moning figures.
text effect: The portion of a Chaos card that describes, in 
plain English, what it does.
Threat: A characteristic represented by a number. Each Pow-
er’s current Threat value is always shown by the position of 
its Threat dial, in the smaller of the two cut-out regions.
tick: A single-unit advancement of a Threat dial.
Twin-tailed Comet icon: An icon appearing on certain 
Old World cards. This icon has no effect of its own, but is 
referred to by other Old World cards.
Tzeentch: One of the four Ruinous Powers of Chaos, the 
architect of fate and font of magical power. 
victory point track: The series of sequential, numbered 
circles on the board. Each player places his victory point 
marker on the victory point track to denote his current vic-
tory point total.
victory point: A type of reward for certain activities in the 
game. Victory points are most often earned, and earned in 
the greatest quantities, by dominating regions. Accumulat-
ing victory points is one route to winning the game.
VP: Abbreviation for “victory point.”
Warrior: A category of follower that offers relatively high 
combat-worthiness for relatively low cost.

Se t u p S t e ps
Place Game Board
.
Distribute Sheets and Arrange Seating.
 Assign Power 
sheets randomly, or by concensus. Sit in Power order.
Distribute Powers’ Cards, Tokens, and Figures
.
Place Power Markers and Victory Point Markers.
Prepare Common Tokens, Ready Dice, and Place 
Ruination Cards. Sort the ruination cards in order, 
with “1” on top and “5” on the bottom.
Create Old World Deck
. Shuffle all Old World cards 
together, then deal out a facedown Old World deck of 
seven cards (four-player game) or eight cards (three-
player game). Return the unused cards to the box.
Place Starting Old World Tokens
. Separate out two 
Noble tokens, three Warpstone tokens, and four Peas-
ant tokens. Randomly place these tokens on the board, 
one in each of the nine regions.
Shuffle and Draw Chaos Cards
: Each player starts 
with a hand of three Chaos cards.
W h e n a r egion is Ru i n e d…
New Chaos cards cannot be played to that region.
New Old World tokens cannot be placed in that region.
No victory points are scored for dominating that 
No corruption tokens are placed in that region.
G a m e e n d con di t ions
First, check the Threat dials. If any player’s dial shows 
“Victory!,” that player wins. (Ties broken by victory 
points.)
Second, check for 50 victory points. If any player has 
50+ victory points, that player wins. (Ties broken by 
Threat.)
Third, check whether five regions are ruined. If this is 
true, the player with the most victory points wins.
Finally, check whether any cards remain facedown in 
the Old World deck. If not, all players lose.
s ta n da r d r egion or de r
Norsca
Troll Country
Kislev
The Empire
Bretonnia
Estalia
Tilea
The Border Princes
The Badlands
9.	
s ta n da r d ch aos pow e r or de r
Chaos in the Old World © Games Workshop Limited 2009. Games Workshop, Warhammer, Chaos 
in the Old World and all associated marks, logos, places, names, creatures, races and race insignia/
devices/logos/symbols, vehicles, locations, weapons, units and unit insignia, characters and 
illustrations from the Warhammer world and Chaos in the Old World game setting are either ®, tm 
and/or © Games Workshop Ltd 2000–2009, variably registered in the UK and other countries 
around the world. This edition published under license to Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy 
Flight Games and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All Rights 
Reserved to their respective owners.