by Tom Kruszewski
INTRODUCTION/OVERVIEW
CHASE is a strategy game for 2 players that uses
dice as playing pieces, but the dice are never rolled.
Instead, a die’s value shows the speed of that piece.
Capture an enemy piece by landing on it by exact
count. When a piece is captured, its speed must be
absorbed by its surviving teammates so that the
team’s total speed of 25 is maintained. When you are
down to 4 dice, you will no longer be able to do this,
and will lose the game.
COMPONENTS
- An 81-hex gameboard; its center space is called the
fission chamber.
- 10 red dice.
- 10 blue dice.
- Carrying case
SETUP
One player plays blue and goes first; the other plays
red. Place the gameboard between you with a CHASE
logo to each player’s left, then set up your dice as
depicted below (keep your 10th die nearby):
GAMEPLAY
(most bold terms are detailed further below)
On your turn, you must either make two of your
adjacent dice transfer speed, or move one of your
dice according to the following rules:
- It must move its full speed (the pips on top of it).
- It must move in a straight “orthogonal” line (through
the hex sides, not the corners), in any of the 6
directions.
- It cannot move through a space with a die in it.
- It cannot move through the fission chamber.
- It can wrap around the left/right side of the board.
- It can ricochet off the near/far edge of the board.
- It can end its move in a space with an enemy die to
capture the enemy die.
- It can end its move in a space with a friendly die to
bump it. Bumping can always, in turn, result in a
capture or another bump.
- It can end its move in the fission chamber to split.
TRANSFER SPEED
Transfer 1 or more speed from one of your dice to
another one of your dice that is adjacent to it, as long
as neither die would go below 1 or above 6 speed.
WRAP AROUND
The layout of the board is as if it were on a cylinder,
such that the left and right edges of the board are
connected. A hex on the left is adjacent to the same-
row hex on the right. A half hex on the left is the same
space as the same-row half hex on the right. A die in
a half hex is considered to be in both halves of that
hex.
RICOCHET
A die moving to the near or far edge with more speed
than it takes to reach the edge will reflect off the edge
(angle of incidence equals angle of reflection) and
continue its move.
CHASE rules and design by Tom Kruszewski (1986). Rulebook © 2018 Néstor Romeral Andrés and Tom Kruszewski
Art by Néstor Romeral Andrés and Nathan Morse. Revisions and narrative by Nathan Morse

The blue 3 can move through neither the fission chamber nor other
dice (red arrows). The red 3 can ricochet off the top side and/or
wrap around the left.
CAPTURE
When your opponent moves a die by exact count onto
a space occupied by one of your dice, your opponent
captures that die, removing it from play. The speed
from the captured die must be “absorbed” by your
slowest die still in play (your choice if there are
several tied for slowest), in order to keep your team’s
total speed at 25. If that die reaches 6 speed without
absorbing all of the speed, repeat the procedure with
the difference until the team’s total speed is 25 again.
BUMP
When you move a die by exact count onto a space
occupied by one of your dice, you bump the latter die
1 space in the same direction. This bumped die, in
turn, may capture or bump a die sitting in its target
space. A chain bumps continues until a die captures
an enemy die or lands in an empty space. Ricochet
applies during bumps. You cannot bump a die into
the fission chamber. A move that would cause this
to happen is illegal.
The blue 2 can either capture the red 1 down-right of it, or bump
the blue 4 right of it, or bump the blue 4 up-right of it, which would
bump the blue 1, to capture the red 3. The blue 3 would be
unaffected.
SPLIT
When you move a die by exact count onto the fission
chamber in the middle of the board, it splits into 2 dice
half its speed (if possible) and reflects the resulting
dice outward 1 space. The 3 paths look a little like a
simple, 3-line arrow (see illustration below). If the die
landing on the fission chamber is odd, the higher-
numbered die always goes in the leftward direction,
relative to how the original die entered the fission
chamber.
In order to “split” the original die, use either your 10th
die or one of your dice that has been captured to be
the second “half” of the die. If you have no such
“spare” die, or if the original die was a 1, the original
die simply emerges unchanged on the leftward path
and nothing emerges on the rightward path.
The two “halves” emerging from the fission chamber
behave as if they were just bumped. That is to say
that each can capture an enemy die in its target space
or bump a friendly die in its target space (possibly
chaining further bumps).
The blue 5 can ricochet off the bottom to split in the
fission chamber into a 3 to the left and a 2 to the right.
END OF THE GAME
When you are down to 4 dice, you will no longer be
able to maintain your team’s total speed of 25, and
you lose the game.
CHASE rules and design by Tom Kruszewski (1986). Rulebook © 2018 Néstor Romeral Andrés and Tom Kruszewski
Art by Néstor Romeral Andrés and Nathan Morse. Revisions and narrative by Nathan Morse