FOR 2 to 6 PLAYERS
AGES 7 and UP
CONTENTS
1 Sturdy, Platform Chinese Checkers Board
6 Sets of Glass Marbles (60 Marbles, 10 of each color)
Illustrated Rules
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of the game is to be the first player to get all 
10 of your marbles into the opposite point of the star.
SET UP
1. Choose the star point that matches your marbles.
2. Take 10 marbles of the same color, and place them in 
the holes of your star point. All players do the same.
FOR 2-Player Game
In a two-player game you control one set of marbles 
and your opponent controls another, directly opposite 
you. You can also play with multiple sets of marbles, 
where each player controls either two or three sets of 
marbles. To win a player and has to move all of them 
across to the opposite star points. Controlling more 	
than one set of marbles is fun and challenging!
FOR 3-Player Game
In a three-player game you can control one or two sets of 
marbles. If each player is using one set, the players move 
to the opposite empty star point. If using two sets, players 
will set up their marbles on opposite sides and must move 
their marbles to their own opposite star points.
FOR 4-Player Game
This is the most common and what is considered 
“standard” Chinese Checkers. Two players place their 
marbles across from two other players. The remaining 	
two opposite star points are left open/vacant.
FOR 5-Player Game
Although the 5-Player version is sometimes not 
considered a legal gameplay option, it is a good version 
to play with a beginner or a younger person. The 
beginner or youngest player will have an empty star point 
across from them. This gives that player an advantage. 
Hey, they’re just learning! Give them a break.	
FOR 6-Player Game
Each player controls one set of marbles and tries to 
move them to the opposite point of the star.
HOW TO PLAY
On your turn, move one of your marbles, according to 
the rules below. After you move, your turn is over. Play 
passes to your left.
Moving Marbles
• 	 Move one marble only. You may move in any 
direction, as long as your marble follows a black line.
• 	 You may move to any adjacent empty hole (as show 
in Graphic 1); or you may make one or more jumps. 
You cannot do both on the same turn. 
Graphic 1: The red marble shown above can move to 
any of the 6 empty holes surrounding it.

Jumping Marbles
• 	 Follow the rules below when you jump over another 
marble.
• 	 You may jump over your own marble, or over an 
opponent’s marble.
• 	 Never remove a marble from the gameboard after 
jumping it.
• 	 Jump over one adjacent marble only, along a straight 
line, to land in an empty hole adjacent to it. You 
may jump in any direction, as long as you follow a 
straight line. Never change direction in the middle 
of the jump.
• 	 You may make several consecutive jumps on your 
turn, as long as you jump one marble at a time, to 
land in an empty hole adjacent to it. See Graphic 2 
for Legal Jumps and Graphic 3 for Illegal Jumps.
Graphic 2 (Above): Examples of red making legal jumps.
Graphic 3 (Above): Examples of red making illegal jumps.
ENDING/WINNING THE GAME
The first player to move all of their 10 marbles into 
each of the 10 holes of the opposite star point wins the 
game!
GAME VARIATION FOR LONGER 
GAMES
For a longer game, play multiple rounds. Decide on 
how may rounds you’d like to play and use this scoring 
method. The winner of each round receives 10 points. 
All other players receive 1 point for each marble in their 
opposite star points when the round ends. At the end 
of the last round, the player with the highest point total 
wins.
We love to hear from our consumers! Please contact us 
with any questions or comments about 
CHINESE CHECKERS.
wmoves@winning-moves.com 
(Email questions and comments.)
800-664-7788 ext. 114 
(Consumer Relations.)
For more information about Winning Moves product 
safety and compliance please visit
http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
Item # 1244
Chinese Checkers is manufactured by Winning Moves 
Inc. All Rights Reserved © 2021. WINNING MOVES, 
WINNING MOVES GAMES, and CLASSIC, RETRO, 
COOL, & FUN, and Logos thereof, are registered 
trademarks of Winning Moves Inc. © 2021 Winning 
Moves Inc., 75 Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 
01923. Colors and parts may vary. Made in CHINA.