New York in the 1960’s. A new wave of Chinese immigrants is moving into Chinatown. The adoption of the
new immigration act has launched the district in a demographic boom! It now reaches Canal Street to the 
north and Bowery Street to the east. The immigrants, hard-working men and women, are arriving by the thou-
sands to buy buildings, establish businesses and fulfill the American Dream! In this game, you are one of them. 
With all your savings in hand, the Big Apple is up for grabs! Will you know how to use your talents and acquire 
the most extraordinary fortune in America?
The board represents the New York Chinatown of the mid-60’s. It is divided into 6 districts containing 
buildings numbered from 1 to 85.
A game is played over 6 rounds. In each round, the players receive income from the businesses they have 
managed to establish. To generate the maximum income, shops of the same type need to be built on adjacent 
buildings. At the beginning of each round, players draw new Building cards and new Shop tiles. They must 
then use their negotiation skills to acquire adjacent buildings and establish businesses.
But it is not always that easy…
In this game where everything can be negotiated, only the hard laws of the market prevail.
80 Money cards
(in $10,000, $50,000, $100,000
and $200,000 bills)
85 Building cards
5 English Player Aid cards
1 First Player card
90 Shop tiles
150 Ownership markers
( 30 each in 5 different colors )
1 Year marker
1 game board
1 linen bag
15 blank Shop tiles 
to create your own 
shops (see page 8)
Round	
3 players	
7 / 5	
4 players	
5 players	
Building cards received: highest number 
Building cards kept: lowest number 
Shop tiles drawn: red number
  Business	
  incomplete	 10,000	 20,000	 40,000	 60,000	 80,000	
 complete	
50,000	
80,000	 110,000	 140,000
Phases 
 1. Draw Building cards	
4. Place Shop tiles 
2. Draw Shop tiles 	
5. Earn income 
3. Trades	
6. Move Year marker one space

• Place the game board in the middle of the table.
• Each player selects a color (red, yellow, green, white or purple) and takes the 30 corresponding markers.
• Each player receives a Player Aid card: on one side you will find the number of Building cards and Shop 
tiles the players receive at the beginning of each round and on the other side, the money received for 
each business built, depending on its size.
• Each player receives $ 50,000. The remaining Money cards are sorted out and placed next to the game 
board as the bank.
• The Shop tiles are put in the bag, which is then placed next to the board.
• The Building cards are shuffled and placed face down in one pile next to the board.
• The Year marker is placed on “1965” on the Chinese calendar located on the lower right side of the board.
• The last player to have visited a Chinatown ( New York, Montréal, Paris, etc ) receives the First Player card.
The tiles represent different types 
of shops that could be found in the 
New York Chinatown of the 1960’s.
The 12 types of shops are illustrated on
the left.
Each Shop tile has a number (3, 4, 5 or
6) that indicates the number of adjacent
tiles (touching orthogonally, never diago-
nally) needed to complete a business to its 
maximum size.
In the game, each type of tile includes 3
more copies than its maximum size. For
example, there are 6 Photo tiles and 9
Restaurant tiles in the game.
A player builds a business by placing a
Shop tile on a vacant building space on 
the game board. You can then increase 
the size of the business by adding other 
Shop tiles of the same type on one of the 
vacant buildings.
The size of a business can vary from
1 to 6. The closer the size of the business
is to its maximum size, the more income 
it generates at the end of each round.

The player with the most money at the end of the 6th round wins the game.
A game is played over 6 rounds. Each round represents one year. The game
begins in 1965 (Year of the Snake) and ends in 1970 (Year of the Dog).
Each round is divided into 6 phases:
1.	 Deal Building cards
2.	 Draw Shop tiles
3.	 Trades
4.	 Place Shop tiles
5.	 Earn income
6.	 Move Year marker one space
1. Deal Building Cards
The owner of the First Player card distributes new cards to the players, according to Table 1.
These cards represent the numbered building board. There are 85 buildings devided into 6 districts.
Round 	
3 players	
7/5	
4 players	
5 players	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Table 1
Proceed according to the following:
• The number of cards varies with the number of players and the round in play.
• Each player receives the highest number of Building cards (the one on the left).
• The second number represents the number of cards that each player must keep.
• The remaining cards are discarded.
• The discarded cards are put back into the draw pile and re-shuffled for the next round.
• Each player reveals the Building cards they kept and puts a marker of his color on each corresponding
• building on the board. Once the markers are placed, the cards are discarded from the game.
Example: In a 4-player game, each player receives 6 Building cards at the beginning of the first round. They must
discard 2 cards of their choice and keep 4 cards to play the round.
 

2. Draw Shop Tiles
Starting with the first player and continuing clockwise, each player draws new Shop tiles from the bag. The num-
ber of tiles every player must draw is shown in Table 1 (page 4).
Proceed according to the following :
• The number of tiles drawn varies with the number of players and the round in play.
• Each player draws as many tiles as indicated by the red number.
• Shop tiles are kept face down until every player has drawn their tiles.
• All Shop tiles are revealed simultaneously, so that trading can begin at the same time for all players.
3. Trades
In this phase, anything goes! Only the laws of the market prevail. All negotiations and trades take place simultane-
ously. Players can trade with the player of their choice; they can even trade with more than one player at
the same time! A player can intervene in any negotiation at all times. Anything can be traded and negotiated:
buildings (with or without Shop tiles on them), Shop tiles and money, in any combination or quantity.
When a building is traded (with or without a Shop tile on it), the owners must change the Ownership markers
accordingly. A marker that is taken off the board returns to the player’s supply.
Negotiations continue until all players have agreed to move on to the next phase.
Important: Once placed on the board, a Shop tile can never be moved or removed until the end of the
game. However, ownership of the shop may change during the game.
Example: Chang (red) offers Lucy
(yellow) his Tea House (built on the
board) and $ 10,000 for her 2 Dim
Sum Shop tiles and building #20.
Lucy agrees to the deal, gives her 2 Dim Sum 
Shop tiles and takes the $ 10,000. Chang’s 
red marker is removed from the board and 
replaced by one of Lucy’s yellow markers. Lucy 
now owns 3 adjacent Tea Houses. The yellow 
marker is replaced by a red one on building 
#20.

4. Place Shop Tiles
Starting with the first player and continuing in clockwise order, each player places/builds the number of Shop
tiles he wants. To build a shop, a player must place a tile on a vacant Building that he owns on the board. It is
very important to place an Ownership marker on the Shop tile once built. A player can build his shops in the
order he chooses or decide to pass and not build anything during this phase.
A player may add a Shop tile next to a group he already owns. Adjacent Shop tiles of the same type
(touching orthogonally, never diagonally), belonging to the same player, form a Business.
Example: Lucy owns 3 adjacent Dim Sum tiles. She therefore owns a Dim Sum 
business of size 3. She can, in later rounds, add new Dim Sum Shop tiles to that 
business.
However, adjacent tiles of the same type, but owned by different players, are distinct businesses.
Example: 4 Tropical Fish tiles are placed together, side by side. Chang
(red) owns 3 and Simon (green) only 1. Chang has a business of size
3 and Simon one of size 1. If later in the game, Simon trades his shop
with Chang, the latter will then own a Tropical Fish business of size 4.
When a player has placed more Shop tiles than the maximum size of the business (as displayed at the bottom of 
the tile), they are then considered 2 seperate businesses: one business with the maximum number of tiles, and the 
other with the remaining tiles.
Example: Chang owns 5 adjacent Photo Shop tiles. He owns 2 Photo Shops:
the first one composed of 3 tiles (maximum size) and another one of 2 tiles.

5. Earn income
At the end of each round, players earn money for each business they have on the board. The Shop tiles that have
not yet been placed and the empty Building sites are not worth anything. A player is selected to act as banker and
distributes to each player their income according to the following:
Business	
incomplete	
10,000	
20,000	
40,000	
60,000	
80,000	
complete	
50,000	
80,000	
110,000	
140,000
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Table 2
Income is distributed according to the size of the business (from 1 to 6 tiles) and its state (complete or incomplete).
A business that reaches the maximum number of tiles (as indicated) is considered complete and earns the most
money. For example, an Antique Shop composed of 6 tiles is considered complete, while a Dim Sum of 4 is not. 
A complete Dim Sum business is composed of 5 adjacent tiles.
Income example: At the end of the third round, Simon owns the following shops:
Simon receives $ 50,000 for his complete Seafood business but only $ 40,000 for his Laundry (size 3) since it has not yet reached 
its maximum size. The 2 Factory shops are considered separate businesses since they are not adjacent one to another. Simon 
receives $ 20,000 for the first Factory business and $ 10,000 for the second one. The 2 factories may later be joined to form only 
one if Simon builds a Factory tile on building site 55 in later rounds.
Important: Money owned by the players must be kept secret during the game.
6. Move Year Marker One Space
At the end of each round, a year is completed and the Year marker is moved onto the next space of the
Chinese calendar.
The game ends at the end of the 6th round, when the Year marker is on the 1970 space (Year of the Dog). The
players receive their last income for every one of their businesses. The player with the most money wins the game.
In case of a tie, the player with the most Shop tiles on the board wins.

Instead of removing the Building cards from the game, it is useful to keep them in front of you while 
playing the game. When buildings are traded, exchange the Building cards along with the Ownership 
markers on the board. This way, if markers are moved accidentally during the game, it is easier to find 
their original place.
 
This edition of Chinatown includes 15 blank tiles to create your own shops. Do not forget the follow-
ing when creating a Shop type : there are always 3 more tiles than the number printed on the tiles. For 
example, there are 6 Sea Food tiles (3 + 3) and 9 Restaurant tiles (6 + 3). When using your own creations, 
replace one type of tiles with another that has the same number of tiles.
 
Designer: Karsten Hartwig
Artwork: Mathieu Leyssenne
© 2014 Z-Man Games Inc.
31 rue de la Coopérative
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 
Canada
To find out more about Chinatown and other great games from Z-Man Games,
please visit us at: www.zmangames.com
www.zmangames.com