Rulebook

Fourteen of the purple district cards are bonus 
cards marked by a white star. Before you play your 
first game, remove these cards. Rules for how to use 
the bonus district cards are found later on page 10. 
Character Cards
These cards represent the 
characters that players seek to 
influence during every game 
round. There are eight basic 
characters in Citadels, but in 
this edition you will also find 10 
additional bonus character cards 
marked by a white star. These 
bonus characters are not used in 
the basic game. Before you play your first game, 
remove these cards. We will teach you how to use 
them later on page 10.
In addition to a special ability, each character card 
has a rank number between one and 
nine. This number is printed on the 
upper left-hand side of the card.
Reference Cards
Each player takes one of these cards at the 
beginning of the game. They are useful for 
gameplay, especially during your first few games.
Gold Counters
These represent the gold needed to build district 
cards. Place them on the table in a central “bank” at 
the beginning of the game.
The Wooden Crown Marker
The player with the Crown is the first 
player to choose a character card during the 
next round. The Crown switches owners 
whenever another player chooses the King character.
Introduction
In Citadels, each player leads a city and seeks to 
increase its prosperity by building new city districts. 
The game ends after one player has built his eighth 
district, after which a winner is determined by how 
many points his completed city is worth.
Building the most impressive city, however, is not 
an easy task. Only by influencing nobles, merchants, 
and other powerful characters of the realm will you 
achieve success.
Components
18 character cards	
30 gold counters 
80 district cards	 	
1 wooden Crown marker 
8 reference cards		
This rulebook
District Cards
These cards represent the various 
districts that you can add to your 
city. Each district card has a cost, 
represented by a number of gold 
coins along the card’s left edge. In 
order to put a district card into play, 
you must pay its cost in gold.
Each district card also exhibits a 
colored circle on its bottom left-hand corner, which 
tells you what type of district it is:
 
Yellow
Blue
Green	
Red	
Purple	
Color
Type
Types of Districts and Their Color
Noble (King’s income)
Religious (Bishop’s income)
Trade (Merchant’s income)
Military (Warlord’s income)
Special (special benefits 
described on the card itself)

Special Rule: If you draw the King character 
to be faceup, immediately replace it with another 
random card from the Character Deck, and then 
shuffle the King back into the Character Deck.
Step Two: Choose Characters
The player who currently possesses the Crown 
now takes the Character Deck, looks at the cards, 
and secretly chooses a character from those 
available. He then passes the remaining character 
cards to the player on his left, who also secretly 
chooses a card and passes the remaining cards to 
the left, etc. This process continues until each player 
has chosen one card from the Character Deck. After 
the last player has chosen, the single remaining 
unchosen card is placed facedown in the center of 
the table.
Step Three: Player Turns
Once all players have chosen a character card, 
the player who has the Crown now calls out the 
name of each character one-at-a-time in the order 
of numerical rank. In this way, he first calls out the 
“Assassin” (#1), then the “Thief” (#2), etc. If no 
player reveals that character when called, simply call 
out the next character in rank order.
When the name of your character card is called, 
you must reveal your character card, place it faceup 
in front of you, and take your turn. When your turn 
is over, the player with the Crown calls the name 
of the next character card. In this manner, play 
Setting up the Basic Game
To prepare Citadels for play, follow these steps:
1. Remove the bonus character and district cards 
(marked by a white star).
2. Shuffle the eight remaining character cards 
together into one deck. This is called the 
Character Deck.
3. Shuffle the remaining district cards together into 
one deck. This is called the District Deck.
4. Each player is then dealt four random district 
cards from the District Deck.
5. Each player receives two gold from the bank.
6. The oldest player receives the Crown.
Playing the Game
Playing the game with 4–6 players is described 
below. If you are playing with 2, 3, or 7 
players, see the special rules on pages 8–9.
Citadels is played over a series of 
rounds; each round has four steps.
Step One: Remove Characters
First draw one random card from the 
Character Deck and set it facedown in 
the center of the table without looking at 
it. This card will not be used this round.
Then draw a second set of cards 
from the Character Deck and set 
them faceup in the middle of the 
table (the number of such faceup 
cards depends on the number 
of players, see the table on the 
next page). These faceup cards 
will not be used this round.
	
	
	
	
	
 6–7	
	
Number
of players
Number of 
faceup cards
Faceup Cards for 4–7 Players

Step Four: End of Round
After all the characters have been called, each 
player returns his character card to the Character 
Deck, which is shuffled, and a new round begins.
Game End
When a player builds his eighth district, the game 
ends after the current round is completed. Use this 
scoring process to determine how many points each 
player receives: 
1. A player receives a number of points equal to 
the total combined gold cost of all the district 
cards in his city at the end of the game.
2. If a player has at least one district in each of the 
five colors, he receives three points.
3. If a player was the first player to build eight 
districts, he receives four points.
4. All other players who have managed to build 
eight districts at the end of the game 
receive two points.
The winner of the game is the player with the 
most points. In the case of a tie, compare the total 
points received only from step 1 of the above 
scoring process. If there is still a tie, the player 
with the most gold wins.
Note: Players may build more 
than eight districts in their city if 
they have the means to do so. 
 
 
 
 
proceeds to every character in order of their rank 
number, giving all players one turn (unless murdered 
by the Assassin, of course; see page 13).
On Your Turn
On your turn, you must first take an action, after 
which you may build a district card.
1) Take an Action: At the beginning of your turn, 
you must do one of the following:
• Take two gold from the bank, or
• Draw two district cards from the District Deck, 
choose one card to put in your hand, and place the 
other card on the bottom of the District Deck.
2) Build a District Card: After you have taken 
an action, you may build one district card in your 
city (that is, play it from your hand onto the table 
in front of you). In order to do so, you must pay the 
cost of the district, in gold, to the bank. You may 
choose not to build a district card if you wish.
The gold cost of building a district card is 
equal to the number of gold coins printed on 
the upper left-hand side of the card.
You may not build a district such that you 
have two identical districts (two “Castle” 
cards, two “Market” cards, etc.) in your city.
Characters and Their Special Abilities
Each character has a special ability, also 
called its power. You may use your character’s 
power once during your turn. Each character’s 
special power is summarized on its respective card 
and explained in detail at the end of these rules. Be 
sure to familiarize yourself with the detailed powers 
before playing your first game.

4. Player B takes one of the remaining character 
cards and places the last character card facedown in 
the center of the table.
The Three-player Game
The player with the Crown takes the Character Deck, 
places a random card facedown in the middle of the 
table, and then secretly chooses a character for himself. 
He then passes the remaining character cards to 
the player on his left, who also chooses a card, and 
then passes the remaining cards to the left, etc.
This continues until each player has chosen two 
cards from the Character Deck. The last player 
selects one of the two remaining cards and places 
the last card facedown in the center of the table.
The Seven-player Game
A seven-player game of Citadels plays much like 
the normal game, with one exception:
During the “Choose Characters” step of a seven-
player game, when the seventh player is handed the 
last character card from the sixth player, the seventh 
player secretly looks at the facedown card on the 
table. He then chooses one of these two cards, 
placing the other card facedown in the center of the 
table and allowing no other player to look at it.
Shorter Game
If players agree, the game can be made shorter by 
playing to seven districts instead of eight.
Bonus Cards
This edition of Citadels includes 10 bonus 
character cards and 14 bonus purple district cards, 
all marked with a white star. You can add these 
bonus cards to your Citadels game for more fun and 
variety.
Other Rules
A few more rules are explained below, including 
special modifications for games with two, three, 
seven, and eight players.
Two- or Three-player Games
In a two- or three-player game, all players play 
with two characters each. The game is played 
normally, except that each player has two turns each 
round (one turn for each character). Players do not 
have to separate their gold or their districts between 
their characters, as the players still only have one 
city. A player can, for example, keep the money 
earned by his first character to build an expensive 
district with his second character.
If you are playing with two or three players, the 
rules for preparing the Character Deck and choosing 
character cards are changed in the following ways:
Two-player Game
1. The player who has the Crown marker (Player A) 
shuffles the Character Deck and places a random 
character card facedown in the center of the table. 
He then secretly selects a character card from 
the remaining cards and passes the remaining six 
character cards to the other player (Player B).
2. Player B selects one card from the Character 
Deck for himself and then chooses and places 
another character card facedown in the center of the 
table. He then passes the remaining four character 
cards to Player A.
3. Player A selects one of the remaining four 
character cards for himself, and then he chooses 
and places another character card facedown in the 
center of the table. He then passes the remaining two 
character cards to Player B.

District Deck from the 14 available bonus district 
cards. If players wish to use more than 2–3 of the 
bonus district cards, they should remove one existing 
purple district card for each additional bonus district 
card used.
District Cards
There are certain district cards with effects that 
need to be explained in further detail:
Bell Tower
The Bell Tower’s ability affects endgame scoring 
in the following ways:
Bonuses are awarded for seven districts instead 
of eight. If one or more players have seven districts 
when the Bell Tower is built, they all receive the four 
bonus points for simultaneously meeting the endgame 
condition. If the Bell Tower is built as someone’s 
seventh district, he and anyone else with seven 
districts get four bonus points for simultaneously 
meeting the endgame condition. Any players who 
subsequently reach seven districts before the round 
(and the game) ends receive two bonus points.
Observatory & Library
The Observatory’s 
ability allows a player 
to draw three cards 
and keep only one; 
the Library’s ability 
allows a player to keep 
both cards he draws. 
When these two districts 
are owned by the same 
player, they allow him 
to draw three cards and 
keep two of them.
Bonus Characters
The bonus character cards are used as follows:
Before the game begins, players may agree to 
remove one or two of the original eight character 
cards and replace them with the bonus characters of 
the same rank numbers. For example, you may agree 
to remove the Merchant (#6) and replace him with 
the Alchemist (#6). 
If you decide to use one of the rank 9 characters 
in a four- to seven-player game, you must place a 
number of random cards faceup at the beginning of 
each round, as detailed in the table below.
When using a rank 9 character card, you can play 
Citadels with eight players. When playing with 
eight players, simply use the rule for 
the seven-player game in which 
the last player may choose 
between the remaining 
character and the facedown 
character in the middle of 
the table. 
Bonus Districts
Before the game begins, 
players may agree to add 
2–3 additional purple 
district cards to the 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Number
of players
Number of 
faceup cards
Faceup Cards for 4–7 Players
when Playing with 9 Characters

1) Assassin
2) Thief
3) Magician
Announce the title of another character that you 
wish to murder. The player who has the murdered 
character must say nothing, and must remain 
silent when the murdered character is called upon 
to take his turn. The murdered character misses 
his entire turn.
At any time during your turn, you have one of 
two options:
• Exchange your entire hand of cards (not the 
cards in your city) with the hand of another player 
(this applies even if you have no cards in your 
hand, in which case you simply take the other 
player’s cards).
• Place any number of cards from your hand 
facedown at the bottom of the District Deck, and 
then draw an equal number of cards from the top 
of the District Deck.
Announce the title of a character from whom 
you wish to steal. When the player who has that 
character is called upon to take his turn, you first 
take all of his gold. You may not steal from the 
Assassin or the Assassin’s target.
Quarry
The Quarry’s ability is triggered when someone 
builds, so if the Quarry is destroyed, its owner 
does not lose any duplicate districts he has already 
built. The owner of the Quarry may build multiple 
duplicate districts, but there may not be more than 
two identical districts in his city.
Graveyard
The Graveyard’s ability may not be used to save 
itself; since it is destroyed, it is no longer in play and 
its ability is void.
The Characters
Every character in Citadels has a unique special 
power. You may use your character’s power once at 
any point during your turn; however, you are never 
required to use a special power should you choose 
not to. Each character’s power is summarized on its 
card and is detailed over the next few pages.
Note: Characters who receive income for certain 
types of districts in their cities (the 
King, Emperor, Bishop, Abbot, 
Merchant, Warlord, and 
Diplomat) may use their 
power to receive this gold 
at any point in their turn. 
Thus you may choose 
to receive your income 
either before building 
new districts (if you 
need the gold in order 
to build the districts), 
or after building new 
districts (to gain income 
from the newly built 
district). You cannot, 
however, do both.

7) Architect
8) Warlord
Credits
Design: Bruno Faidutti
Illustration: Julien Delval, Florence Magnin, Jean-Louis Mourier, Jesper 
Ejsing, Bjarne Hansen
Graphic Design: Cyrille Daujean, Brian Schomburg, Scott Nicely, Richard 
Spicer, Christian T. Petersen
Editing & Rules: Darrell Hardy, Christian T. Petersen
© 2010 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved. No part of this 
product may be reproduced without specific permission. Citadels, The 
Dark City, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo 
are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games 
is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 
55113, USA, and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this 
information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due 
to small parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in 
China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF 
PERSONS 12 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
You receive one gold for each military (red) 
district in your city. At the end of your turn, you 
may destroy one district of your choice by paying 
a number of gold equal to one less than the cost 
of the district. Thus, you may destroy a cost one 
district for free, a cost two district for one gold, 
or a cost six district for five gold, etc. You may 
destroy one of your own districts. You may not, 
however, destroy a district in a city that is already 
completed by having eight districts (or seven 
districts when the Bell Tower is in play).
After you take an action, you draw two additional 
district cards and put both in your hand. You may 
build up to three districts during your turn.
4) King
5) Bishop
6) Merchant
You receive one gold for each religious (blue) 
district in your city. Your districts may not be 
destroyed/exchanged by the Warlord/Diplomat.
You receive one gold for each noble (yellow) 
district in your city.
When the King is called, you immediately receive 
the Crown. You now call the characters, and you 
will be the first player to choose your character 
during the next round. If there is no King during 
the next round, you keep the Crown. If you are 
murdered, you skip your turn like any other 
character. Nevertheless, after the last player has 
played his turn, when it becomes known that you 
had the murdered King’s character card, you take 
the Crown (as the King’s heir).
You receive one gold for each trade (green) 
district in your city. After you take an action, you 
receive one additional gold.

3) Wizard
4) Emperor
5) Abbot
You receive one gold for each religious (blue) 
district in your city. The player with the most 
gold must give you one gold. If there is a tie for 
the player with the most gold, or if you have the 
most gold, then you do not receive the gold.
You may look at another player’s hand of cards 
and take one card. You may then either put this 
card into your hand or pay to build it in your 
city. If you build it in your city, it does not count 
towards the one district building limit, which 
means you can build another district as well. 
During this turn, you may build district cards 
identical to another district already in your city.
You receive one gold for each noble (yellow) 
district in your city. When the Emperor is called, 
you immediately take the Crown from the player 
who has it and give it to a different player (but 
not yourself). The player who receives the Crown 
chooses to give you either one gold or one district 
card from his hand. If the player has neither, 
he does not have to give you anything. If the 
Emperor is murdered, the Crown stays where it is. 
(Note that, like the King, the Emperor may not be 
in the faceup discarded character cards.)
Bonus Characters
1) Witch
2) Tax Collector
Whenever another player builds one or more 
districts in his city, that player must, at the end 
of his turn, give you one gold (if he has any gold 
left). If the Assassin has already built a district 
card this round, his player must pay you one gold 
when you reveal the Tax Collector.
After you take an action, announce the title of 
another character who you wish to bewitch, 
and then immediately end your turn. When the 
bewitched character is called upon, its player 
must show his character card, take an action, and 
then immediately end his turn. The bewitched 
character cannot use his character’s ability before 
you take over. You now resume this player’s turn 
as if you were playing the bewitched character, 
using all the character’s powers in your city 
(e.g., the Merchant’s gold bonus, the Bishop’s 
protection from Warlord attack, the Architect’s 
two card bonus, etc.). You still build districts 
from your hand of cards and pay with your gold 
(including taxes).
If the King is bewitched, the King player still 
receives the Crown marker. If the bewitched 
character is not in play, you do not resume your 
turn. The Thief cannot steal from the Witch or the 
bewitched character.

9) Queen
9) Artist
Bruno Faidutti’s Credits: Thanks to all who helped me test and tune this game, 
specifically Nadine Bernard, Maud Bissonnet, Scarlett Bocchi, Frank Branham, David 
Calvo, Brent & Maryann Carter, Fabienne Cazalis, Pitt Crandlemire, Isabelle Duvaux, 
Thierry Fau, Philippe Keyaerts, David Kuznik, Serge Laget, Myriam Lemaire, Pierre 
Lemoigne, Tristan Lhomme, Hervé Marly, Bernard Mendiburu, Hélène Michaux, 
Steffan O’Sullivan, Philippe des Pallières, Jean-Marc Pauty, Pierre Rosenthal, Fred 
Savart, Mik Svellov, and Irène Villa (I name only the most assiduous, constructive 
players, and the prettiest girls). Thanks to all the attendants at my Vth Ludopathic 
Gathering and at Alan Moon’s Xth Gathering of friends. Thanks to Marcel-André 
Casasola-Merkle, since one of the core systems of Citadels comes directly from his 
game Verraeter. Thanks to Ron Magin, Bernd Brunnhofer, Dirk Geilenkeuser and 
Volker Weitzel. Thanks to all those who took part in the Ohne Furcht und Adel 
character contest held by Hans im Glueck, and specifically to Ben Baldanza, Peter 
Küsters, Gary Wong, Andrea Navratil, Christoph Heinzl, Stefanie Kethers, Alexander 
Klein, Jonathan Degann, Holger Traczynski and Holger Baumgartner, whose ideas 
inspired some of the new expansion characters. Thanks to Christian Petersen, of Fantasy 
Flight Games, who was very patient with all the troubles with the English language 
version rights. Most of all, thanks to Cyrille Daujean, whose help with designing, 
testing and supporting this game was invaluable.
You receive three gold if you are sitting next to 
the King (or the Emperor). If the King has been 
murdered, but was sitting beside you, you receive 
three gold when this becomes known (that is, 
immediately after your turn). Remember, this 
special power is tied to the King/Emperor card, 
not the Crown marker. Note: Do not use the 
Queen in a game with fewer than five players.
You may “beautify” one or two of your districts 
by placing one gold on each of the districts you are 
beautifying. The value of a beautified district (and 
therefore the cost of destroying or exchanging it) 
is increased by one. Beautifying also increases the 
number of points you receive for the district at the 
end of the game. There can be only one gold piece 
on any one district.
6) Alchemist
7) Navigator
8) Diplomat
After taking your action, you may either receive 
an additional four gold or draw an additional 
four cards. You cannot build any district cards 
this round.
At the end of your turn, you receive back all the 
gold you spent to build district cards this turn, but 
not the gold you spent for other reasons (paying the 
Tax Collector, for example). You cannot spend 
more gold than you have during your turn.
You receive one gold for each military (red) 
district in your city. At the end of your turn, you 
may take a district from another player’s city in 
exchange for a district in your city. If the district 
you take has a higher cost than the district you 
give, you must pay the difference in gold to 
the player with whom you make the exchange. 
You may not exchange the Keep district, any 
districts in the Bishop’s city, or any districts in a 
completed city of eight districts (seven with the 
Bell Tower in play). Note: If you are using the 
Diplomat in your game, you must remove the 
Cemetery from the deck since both cannot be 
used together.