THE BOARD GAME
GAME MATERIALS
Before the first game, carefully separate all the die-cut pieces from their frames.
THE COOPERATIVE CITY-BUILDING GAME FOR URBAN PLANNERS AGES 10 AND UP
You have a big job ahead of you. Together, you want to build a new, thriving city where people are happy. To do that, you have a number of milestones 
to complete. Each milestone represents a period of construction for your city. You will have to finish each milestone before beginning the next. Once 
you have completed them all, the game ends. The quality and skill of your cooperative efforts will be reflected in the happiness of your residents.
You can plan and consult among yourselves as much as you like. If you are not able to agree on something, it will be up to the active player to make the 
final decision. Just make sure that you don’t run out of money, or you will all lose the game together.
You learn the game by playing through various scenarios. The introductory game contains the important basic rules, but not all of the game elements. 
In further scenarios, a variety of additional elements will come into play. The final scenario involves the most variety and new challenges. If it’s your first 
time playing the game, you will want to play through the scenarios in the specified order. 
If you want to start playing the game with all of the rules and elements, use Scenario 4 on page 7. Since the scenarios build on each other, you should 
first read these basic rules and additional rules of Scenarios 1–4. Then play Scenario 4.
Would you like the game 
to be explained instead of 
reading the rules? Then 
download the free Kosmos 
Helper App.
Download the Helper App
Learn to Play
6 Game board pieces (back sides A-F)
24 Residential zones
12 Commercial zones
12 Industrial zones
9 Utility buildings
18 Service buildings
10 Unique buildings
1 Starting player 
token
30 Money tokens
1 Administration board
75 Construction cards
25 each, for Stages I, II, and III
4x 5-unit
tokens
26x 1-unit tokens
8 Administration 
markers
Healthcare Education
Public 
Transport
Fire
Police
Parks
2 Mounting feet
2 Happiness 
indicators
1 “End of a Milestone” 
overview card
4 Turn Overview 
1 Skyline (to display 
overall Happiness)
10 Unique 
Building cards
10 Role 
10 Policies 
10 News 
The game materials that are not needed in the introductory game should be placed back into the box: 
3 Game board pieces (C, D, F)
10 Unique building cards, 10 Role cards, 10 Policies cards, 10 News cards
10 Unique building tiles

 A
E
 B
Give each player their own Turn Overview card.
Services
Zones
Utilities
Overview of Game Symbols
Healthcare
Education
Police
Fire
Public 
Transport
Parks
Residential
Commercial
Industrial
Pollution
Traffic
Crime
Available 
Labor
Happiness
Money
District
GAME PREPARATION
Assemble the three game board pieces B, E, and A in the middle of the table 
as shown below. The back sides with the letters should be facing up. 
Note: In later games or if you want to play with all the rules right away, 
assemble all four game boards as indicated for the given scenario.
Place the administration board face up next to the game boards and put the 
eight administration markers on the matching display bars, on the “0” space 
in each case.
Deposit a starting capital of 12 money tokens (two large money 
with a value of five and two small ones with a value of one) in the city 
treasury. The rest of the money is placed in a stockpile next to the playing area.
Sort all the zone and building tiles in accordance with their color and type, 
and keep them ready next to the playing area.
Shuffle the construction cards for Stage 1 and deal each player the 
appropriate number of cards based on the total number of players 
(see below). Each player places these cards face up in front of 
himself or herself: 
	 4 players: three cards each
	 3 players: four cards each
	 2 players: five cards each
	 1 player: seven cards
Shuffle the remaining Stage I construction cards, as well as the Stage II and 
Stage III ones, keeping the different stages separated. Have them ready next 
to the playing area.
Place the Happiness display (Skyline) next to the 
administration board. Stick the display chips onto the “0” 
spaces of the numerical scales on the left and right sides of 
the display.
The youngest player gets the Starting player token and the 
“End of a Milestone” overview card. The starting player 
token is “Chirper,” the mascot of Cities: Skylines.
The Administration Board
The administration board helps you keep track of how well your city is doing.
In the upper area, you can read the capacity of your city in the utility 
categories of Power, Water, and Garbage. The farther into the green 
range your marker is, the higher your capacity.
Important: For each step below “0” (red range), the Happiness of your 
residents will drop by one at the End of a Milestone.
Happiness can take a positive, negative, or neutral (=0) value. After each 
Milestone, this value is transferred to the overall Happiness display (Skyline). 
The higher the overall Happiness at the end of play, the better your final 
result will turn out to be. You can see what this is by looking at the success 
table on the final page. 
The employment bar displays the working population available to you.
Important: For each step away from “0” for your working population, 
whether above or below, you will have to pay one money from the city 
treasury at the end of a Milestone.
Background: The “0” value stands for full employment. If the value is below “0,” 
the economy lacks a sufficient labor force. If the value is above it, there is a 
shortage of jobs. In either case, money must be invested.
In the lower area, you will see three bars that will have an impact on the 
quality of life of your residents. Your construction activities will raise the 
pollution, traffic, and crime values during the game, but you can lower these 
values by taking various countermeasures.
Important: At the end of the game, the overall Happiness of your residents 
will drop in accordance with how far above “0” you are on these bars.
Crime
Employment bar
Happiness
Pollution
Traffic
Outcome at 
the end of the 
Outcome at 
the end of the 
City treasury

COURSE OF PLAY
Start of a Milestone 
First, decide together which board game piece you want to start 
with. You will want to take into consideration the development 
costs printed on them. Once you have decided (the starting player has the 
final word!), take the required sum of money from the city treasury and 
return it to the stockpile next to the playing area, turn the selected board 
piece over, but keep it in the same position relative to the other pieces. 
Note: You will have to rotate it around its longitudinal axis (formed by the row 
of money tokens printed on it!). That way, the bodies of water shown on the 
front side will be arranged the same as on the back.
Example: You pay two money tokens and turn game board piece A face-up.
On the front side of the board piece, you will see a 
grid of squares, where you will be placing building 
and zone tiles during the course of the game. The 
tiles are not allowed to be placed over the edge of 
the playing area, across streets, on other building 
tiles, or on the water.
The squares are arranged into various areas. These are the districts of your 
city. All areas that are bordered by a street or the edge of the board count as 
City Districts.
Later on during the course of 
play, a city district will be able 
to extend over several game 
board pieces. Many of the 
cards refer to these districts. 
Also, a condition for the end of a Milestone is that there be at least one 
building or zone tile in each city district.
As the first active player, the starting player carries out one of the following 
three actions. Then, the next player in a clockwise direction becomes the 
active player, etc. 
The Actions: 
Play a construction card
Exchange a construction card
End a Milestone
Play a Construction Card
There are two types of construction card:
For construction cards with service buildings or utility buildings on 
them, you have to pay the amount of money indicated.
Example 1: You are building a medical clinic. You have to pay 
one money and your Happiness increases by one. 
Example 2: You are building a wind power plant. You have to 
pay three money tokens and your Power capacity increases by 
three. This means that you will soon be able to use more power.
The green, blue, and yellow construction cards are used to build 
residential , commercial , and industrial zones. 
These are free and require no money. Their impact on your city will vary in 
terms of a number of factors, however. If you build them in such a way that 
you use already-available services, this will yield benefits for your city. 
Example: You build a residential zone. The recently-arrived 
residents consume more water. That causes your water capacity 
to drop by one. But there is also a larger workforce available. The 
value on your employment bar increases by one. If you utilize the 
“healthcare” service indicated in the lower part of the card, you 
get one money for your city treasury.
Important: This benefit only applies if the service building is already 
on the game board. If it is not built until later, the benefit will not apply 
retroactively.
If the player wants to play one of the construction cards lying in front of 
himself or herself, he or she slides the card slightly forward.
The cards for service and utility buildings display the required tile on the 
card. With the residential, commercial, and industrial cards, you can 
take any tile you like from the matching zone category.
The player takes the tile from the general supply and places it on a suitable 
location on the face-up game board. The player may turn and rotate it 
however he or she likes to make it fit best. The tile must fit into the grid 
of squares.
Once placed a constructed tile has to remain in place until the end of the 
game. It cannot be moved again. 
Important: In each city district, you are not allowed to construct 
more than one utility building. If, say, you already have a wind turbine 
in a district, you cannot also build an oil power plant there. 
A water tower wouldn’t be possible there either.
 
For service buildings in the “Stage I” pile, the new zone (or at least 
one square of it) has to be built directly adjacent to the service 
building for this service building to be utilized. 
Be sure to leave enough space to be able to build 
more than one neighboring zone that can utilize 
the service.
Example: Build the medical clinic in such a way 
that there is room for several directly adjacent zones.

The new residential zone consumes power and generates 
garbage. The power and garbage capacity are each 
reduced by one. If the residential zone is built in a district 
where there are already at least two other residential 
zones, the residents feel good and Happiness increases 
by two.
The new residential zone consumes water and generates 
garbage. The water and garbage capacity for each are 
reduced by one. If you have a Happiness bar value of 
greater than five, one additional labor unit is available 
to you. Also, Happiness increases by one and you get one 
money for the city treasury.
The new residential zone consumes water and generates 
garbage. The water and garbage capacity for each are 
reduced by one and you have one additional labor unit 
available. If there is no crime, the residents feel good and 
Happiness increases by three.
The new commercial zone generates more garbage. 
Garbage capacity is reduced by one. The value on 
your employment bar is reduced by one, since there 
are fewer people available for employment due to the 
hiring of workers. Since customers are visiting the new 
stores in their own cars, traffic increases by one. If the 
new commercial zone is built in a busy district where 
there is already at least one residential zone, one other 
commercial zone, and one industrial zone, these bring 
four money tokens to your city treasury in the form 
of taxes.
More people are employed in the new industrial zone. 
That means that fewer people are available for work 
and the value on your employment bar drops by three. 
The industry pollutes the environment and increases 
the volume of traffic. The values for pollution and traffic 
increase by one each. If the new industrial zone is built in 
a district where there are at least three commercial zones 
and there is fire service available, a lot of business gets 
done, taxes are collected, and your city treasury is richer 
by eight money tokens.
Example: Thanks to a neighboring medical 
clinic already in place, you can utilize the 
“healthcare” service. To do that, the residential zone 
has to have at least one square bordering 
the medical center. A residential zone that only 
touches the medical center by a corner does not 
count as neighboring. 
For service buildings in the Stage II and III piles, the new zone just has 
to be built in the same city district as the required service building.
Example: The hospital is good for the entire 
district. So the residential zone does not have 
to be neighboring.
When constructing utility buildings, you do not 
have to worry about adjacency since they are 
not prerequisites for later benefits. They have a 
one-time effect during the construction process. 
Then, you pay the costs indicated on the card (in the first row of the 
residential, commercial, or industrial construction card). If you have to pay 
money, it will be deposited from the city treasury into the stockpile. 
The markers indicated on the card are then moved accordingly on the 
administration board. “-“ means to move the marker to the left, “+” means 
to move it to the right. 
For residential, commercial, and industrial there is then a reward 
(second row of the construction card) in the form of money or a change in the 
administration markers, assuming the prerequisite is met.
For cards with the “city district” symbol, the new zone has to be built in a 
district where certain other tiles are already present in order to take 
advantage of this symbol. 
Detailed examples for specific construction cards:
The new residential zone needs power and water. 
Capacities for each are reduced by one. On top of that, 
there have been a lot of reported burglaries, raising the 
crime rate by one. If the residential zone is constructed in 
a district where the services “healthcare” and “education” 
are being offered, Happiness will increase by one and 
two new residents will be added to the employment.
In the new residential zone, garbage is piling up. 
Garbage capacity is reduced by one. The influx of 
residents raises the available workforce by one. If the 
value on the employment bar is under “0,” you get two 
money tokens for your city treasury.

Exchange a Construction Card
The player pays two money tokens from the city treasury to exchange 
exactly one of his or her construction cards. He or she then places the card 
on a face-up pile next to the three face-down Stage I, II, or III piles. The 
first card to be exchanged begins the Exchange Pile. This card is not 
returned to the box. Note: You can look at the cards in the exchange pile 
whenever you like.
Then, the player draws a new card from any of the three Stage I, II, and III 
piles he or she likes, and places it in his or her card display. If there are 
already cards in the exchange pile, he or she can take any card from there.
Ending a Milestone
A player is allowed to end a Milestone if there is at least one tile in 
each district.
If a player is ending the current Milestone, he or she takes the starting 
player token and performs the following steps:
1. Power, Water, and Garbage utility bars:
For each step under “0” (in the red range), the marker must be moved one 
square back on the Happiness bar. Note: The markers for the utility types are 
not changed as a result.
Example: You have attained a value of nine on the Happiness bar. Since you 
are two squares in the red for power and one square in the red for waste, you 
must move three squares back on the Happiness bar to six.
2. Happiness bar:
Next, the current value of the Happiness bar is transferred to the 
overall Happiness display and the Happiness indicators are 
repositioned accordingly. The double-digit values are on the left, 
the single-digit ones on the right. Do not reset the Happiness bar to zero 
after transferring the score to the 
Happiness indicator.
Example: The new Happiness value of 
six is transferred to the Skyline. The left 
display remains at “0,” while the right 
one is shifted to “6.” That gives you an 
overall Happiness of six.
If the overall Happiness is negative, 
the indicator is set to on the left. 
Then, the numbers on the right count as negative values.
	
Important: If the indicator has to be positioned on “-10” or beyond, 
you immediately lose the game!
For Costs and Rewards:
City treasury: If money has to be spent and there is not 
enough money in the treasury, the card may not be played.
 
Power, Water, Garbage: 
If a marker has to be moved past 
the last square in the red area, 
the card may not be played. If a 
marker has to be moved past the 
last square in the green area, the card may be played. The marker remains 
on the highest value, however. 
Pollution, Traffic, Crime: 
If a marker has to be moved past the last square in 
the red area, the card may not be played. If a 
marker has to be moved below zero, the card may 
be played. The marker remains on the “0” space.
Employment bar: 
If the marker has to be moved beyond “-5” or “5,” the card may not be played.
Happiness bar:
If the marker has to be moved beyond the “25” square, it remains on “25.” 
The remaining points are immediately transferred to the overall Happiness 
Skyline display.
Important: If the Happiness marker has to be moved to “-5” or beyond, 
you immediately lose the game!
After a building card has been played, it goes back into the box. It is thereby 
out of play.
Draw a New Card:
The player adds to his or her card display by drawing one card from any of 
the three face-down piles (Stage I, II, or III) of the player’s choice.
Note: The effects of the cards increase in accordance with costs and rewards.
Instead of drawing a face-down card, the player may select any card from the 
face-up exchange pile, which will be created in the course of the game.
Then it is the next player’s turn.
Important: If all three piles are empty, the next player has to end the 
current Milestone and the game ends. This happens even if the 
prerequisites are not met and some game board pieces are still face down.

Tips for Successful City Planners
•	 Start with a game board piece with low development costs. 
That way, you will have more money available for your service and 
utility buildings.
•	 Use the opportunity to exchange construction cards. That will let you 
save cards for later that can’t help you at the moment. 
•	 Try to construct utility buildings at the edge, where they won’t bother 
anyone. You can also try building them in still-empty districts, thereby 
gaining the prerequisite for ending a Milestone.
•	 In the “Stage I” cards, you will find the simple, inexpensive service 
buildings that have benefits that you can use right away. Of course, 
you will have to be sure to build the zones directly adjacent to each 
other. Therefore, build them in such a way that you can add adjacent 
zones on many sides. Keep in mind that they can also be used for an 
adjacent game board piece once you play the next Milestone.
•	 It is best to draw “Stage II” cards early. There, you will find service 
buildings that will impact the entire district. You do not have to build 
them centrally, and when you add an adjacent game board piece they 
will have an impact on the larger district that results.
•	 You should only take “Stage III” cards after you have already built some 
things, and have more money in the treasury.
•	 Pay attention to the bars for pollution, traffic, and crime. Even if it is not 
until the end of the game that they will have an impact on overall 
Happiness and thus on the final result, you should keep an eye on them 
throughout the game. If their values reach the limit, you cannot play 
any cards that would raise them, thus restricting your possibilities. 
•	 Since most of the game board pieces only consist of three or four city 
districts, a Milestone can often be completed very quickly. If, however, 
the values on your administration board are too low, you might end up 
losing a lot of Happiness or paying money due to your employment bar. 
In that case, it would be better to try to improve these values rather 
than ending the current Milestone right away.
•	 Each increase in Happiness will yield multiple benefits, since the 
attained value also counts for later Milestones.
•	 Be sure that you still have enough money in the treasury for the next 
Milestone. You will have to be able to pay the development costs for an 
adjacent game board piece. And you also should keep enough money to 
be able to build new service and utility buildings.
3.	Employment bar:
	
For each step away from “0” your working population moves, 
whether below or above, you will have to pay one money from 
the treasury at the end of a Milestone. Note: The marker is not 
changed as a result. 
Example: You have reached the value of “-2” on the employment bar. That 
means that there is not enough workforce available in your city, and you have to 
pay two money from the treasury.
 
4.	New Milestone:
	 When a new game board piece is turned over, it has to be adjacent to a 
game board piece that is already face up. You will also have to pay the 
development costs displayed. If you have a choice, decide together which 
game board piece you want to continue with. If you cannot agree, the 
person with the starting player token gets to decide.
Example: You pay five money and turn over adjacent game board piece E.
With the new board piece, the city districts grow. Existing services in an 
enlarged city district can now be used in the whole larger district. 
Of course, you can also keep building on the old game board piece.
5.	Exchange construction cards:
	 Starting with the player who has the starting player token, each player 
may place any number of his or her cards on the exchange pile and draw 
an equal number of cards from any of piles I, II, and III — just not from the 
exchange pile. For each of these cards, one money has to be paid into the 
stockpile from the treasury. Note: You may discuss among yourselves who 
will exchange how many cards.
6.	Game play resumes: 
	 Then, the player with the starting player token continues the game.
END OF GAME
To end the last Milestone and thus the game, all board game pieces must be 
revealed and in each district there must be at least two tiles of any kind. 
After the last Milestone has been assessed, you still have to see how many 
squares you are away from “0” on the pollution, traffic, and crime bars. For 
each square, you will have to reduce the overall Happiness of your residents 
by one. 
 
Then, take a look at the success table on the final page to see what status you 
were able to help your city attain. All results in the green range count as a 
successful game.
Failed city: 
It sometimes happens that you lose the game. This will be the case if any of 
the following situations apply:
• Costs have to be paid, but you don’t have enough money in your treasury.
• During a player’s turn, he or she cannot perform any of the possible actions.
• The Happiness marker on the administration board has dropped to “-5” or the 
overall Happiness reaches “-10.”
Should you lose, use the following tips to help you succeed the next time.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE SCENARIOS
All of the introductory game rules apply. On top of them, however, there are 
other rules and game materials that come into play as well. 
The scenarios are built on top of one another. All of the rules of scenario 1 also 
apply to scenario 2. And in scenario 3, the rules from scenarios 1 and 2 also 
apply, and so on. 
That’s why it’s best to play the scenarios in the specified sequence. That way, 
you will gradually get to know all the rules. At the beginning of each scenario, 
you will set up the depicted game board pieces. Unlike in the introductory 
game, you will always begin with a starting capital of ten money tokens.
If you want to play the game with all of the rules right away, start by 
reading the rules for scenarios 1–4 and then play scenario 4. 
Scenario 1: Unique Buildings
•	 Unique buildings are special buildings that yield benefits but also require 
a lot of space.
•	 Mix the ten Unique building cards into the appropriate Stage II and III piles 
(see back of card). The corresponding ten building tiles are placed face up 
next to the game board. 
•	 If a player draws a Unique building card, he or she places it in his or her 
display as usual. He or she is allowed to build this unique building as soon 
as it is his or her next turn.
•	 After construction, the card is placed face up next to the administration 
board. As of now, the benefits stated on the card apply. 
Exception: The “Opera house” and “Posh mall” yield a one-time benefit 
immediately following construction.
•	 A Unique building card can be exchanged just like a normal construction 
card and drawn from the exchange pile later on.
	 Note: That way, you can hold onto a building until a better time later on 
	 even if you don’t yet have the room for it — without having the card block 
	 your display. 
Scenario 2: The Role Cards
•	 Each player receives a role with special abilities, which he or she can use as 
often as he or she wants during the game.
•	 Start by shuffling the ten role cards. The starting player gets two cards 
and chooses one. Then, the next player, proceeding in the clockwise 
direction also gets two cards and chooses one. Continue like this until 
there is one card face up in front of every player.
Note: You can immediately read your selected role card out loud, in order to 
allow all the players to coordinate their selections better.
•	 Cards that are not selected or distributed are returned to the box.
•	 All players place their role cards face up next to their construction card displays.
Note: If you are playing with role cards for the first time, you can try distributing 
cards at random instead of choosing specific ones.
Scenario 3: The Policies Cards
•	 Policies cards yield one-time benefits.
•	 Mix the ten policies cards into the appropriate Stage II and Stage III piles 
	 (see back of card). 
•	 If a player draws a policies card, he or she places it face up in his or her 
display as usual. 
•	 A policies card can be played instead of a construction card when the 
player chooses the “Play a construction card” action. After the costs are 
paid and the card has been played, it is returned to the box. A building is 
not added to the board.
•	 A policies card cannot be exchanged for a payment of two money tokens.
•	 If you have not used your policies card by the end of the Milestone, you must 
discard it unused (into the box). You cannot carry it over into the next Milestone.
 
Scenario 4: The News Cards
•	 For as long as they are in play, news cards yield disadvantages that limit 
your options.
•	 Mix the ten news cards into the appropriate Stage II and Stage III piles (see 
back of card).
•	 If a player draws a news card, he or she places it face up next to the game 
board. That player then draws another card as a replacement.
Note: It is helpful to place the news card in the play area indicated on the card, 
such as near the utilities board or next to the supply of corresponding tiles. The 
news has immediate effect.
•	 There are two ways to get rid of a news card:
	 > If another news card is drawn, the new one immediately replaces the 
old one, which goes into the box.
	 > At the end of a Milestone, the current news card is placed in the box.
•	 If a player draws a news card at the end of a Milestone during a card 
exchange, it is returned to the box without having any effect. The player 
draws a replacement card in exchange. If that one is a news card too, it 
likewise goes into the box, and so on.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scenario 5: Lots of Variability 
•	 If you have already played a few games, this scenario offers you new challenges by varying the game board configurations.
•	 In this scenario, all of the unique buildings and role, policies, and news cards get into the act.
•	 The play area can be assembled in different ways as dictated by chance. Mix the game board pieces under the table and select four of them, 
which you may arrange however you like. 
•	 When assembling the play area, you must be sure to have land surfaces placed against land surfaces and water against water, or along the 
edge. Other than that, it is up to you to decide how to put the pieces together. For example, you could arrange them in a 2x2 arrangement with 
a large lake in the middle, or with the water surfaces at the outside edges. Or you could arrange them in the shape of an L.
•	 You determine the level of difficulty of your game by choosing your starting capital:
	 Beginner = 12 Money tokens
	 Advanced = 10 Money tokens
	 Expert = 8 Money tokens
•	 All the previously described rules still apply.
The author and publisher would like to thank all the test players and rule reviewers.
The author: Rustan Håkansson, born in 1981, lives with his wife and children in Sweden.
After his initial release of the Tribes civilization game, this cooperative city planning game is 
his second game with Kosmos.
Editing: Wolfgang Lüdtke
Editorial assistance: Peter Neugebauer, Kosmos team
Graphics: Fiore GmbH
English Text Editing: Ed Gartin
© 2019 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5–7, 70184 Stuttgart
Telephone: +49 711 2191-0
Fax: +49 711 2191-199
info@kosmos.de
kosmos.de
© 2019, 2020 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA 
Thames & Kosmos is a registered trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872; 
Web:thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK, LP. Cranbrook, Kent TN17 3HE 
Phone: 01580 713000 ; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
© Paradox Interactive, Cities: Skylines® 
Copyright© 2019 Paradox Interactive AB (publ)
All rights reserved. 
MADE IN THE NETHERLANDS
SUCCESS TABLE:
< 0: Dying City 
Half the population has already moved away, and the other half will 
leave as soon as they can.
0 – 10: City of no importance 
Hardly anyone remembers this city. The residents are not proud to live 
here. They do not consider themselves fortunate to live in this city.
11 – 20: Ambitious City
This city could become something. Some day. Maybe.
21 – 30: Busy City
Things are starting to really get rolling here. There is construction 
activity all over the place. It might soon be a desirable place to live. 
31 – 40: Showcase City
People like living here. When younger people move away, they later 
return with their families.
41 – 50: Boom City
This is a city for those who are going places, it is booming!
51 – 60: Grand City
Residents and tourists agree, this is an amazing city. As soon as 
there is even a hint of a problem, it is tackled and solved.
61+: Heavenly City
Citizens absolutely love living in this city, and they wouldn’t trade it 
for anywhere else in the world. 
691462-02-060120