The game is played over 8 rounds (or 4 rounds in a 2-player game). Each round, players use workers to collect 1 
scoring card, 1 city tile, 1-2 feature tiles, and 2-4 building pieces.
City tiles are made up of park, water, and building spaces. Building pieces are placed on building spaces of matching 
colors to form buildings, which can be 1-4 stories high. Scoring cards, and the city achievement boards, provide 
objectives for players to complete to score points at game end.
Whoever scores the most Victory points has built the most fantastic neighborhood and wins the game!
For a longer 2-player game, play 7 rounds instead and build a neighborhood of 3x5 tiles. 
You’ve been tasked by the city council to put together a plan to transform a whole 
neighborhood in the city. You have the opportunity to build new housing and office 
buildings, parks, and leisure areas near the waterfront. 
If you manage to fulfill the requirements from City Hall and meet their expectations, 
there is a very good chance for you to get ahead in the game!
1 game board
100 building pieces 
(25 each in red, blue, green 
and yellow)
48 feature tiles
32 city tiles
32 worker pawns and 
12 achievement rings 
(8 + 3 each in 4 player colors)
4 player aid cards
32 scoring cards
1 cloth bag
1 star token
4 starting tiles 
(with colorless back)
4 scoring tokens 
(1 in 4 player colors)
4 city achievement boards 
(double sided)
OVERVIEW
COMPONENTS
2-PLAYER VARIANT

Place the feature tiles face-down, mix them, arrange 
them into stacks, and place them below the city tiles.
Place all the building pieces in the bag.
Randomly choose a start player, who takes the star 
and places it in front of them.
Lay out the 4 starting tiles in view of all players. 
Starting with the player to the right of the start player 
and going counter-clockwise, each player chooses 
a starting city tile and places it in front of them. 
This is the start of their “neighborhood.” Return any 
remaining starting tiles to the box.
Draw 4 scoring cards and place 3 
face-up and the last 1 face-down 
in the top row of the game board.
A
B Draw 4 city tiles and place 3
face-up and the last 1 face-down in 
the second row of the game board.
Draw 6 feature tiles and place 
5 of them face-up and place the 
last 1 face-down in the third row
of the game board.
Create sets of building pieces 
by pulling pieces from the bag 
and placing 1 in each of the 
first ten squares in the last 
row of the game board. Do 
not put building pieces on the 
spaces with a question mark.
Place the game board in the center of the table. 
Each player chooses a player color and takes the 
4 corresponding worker pawns (or 8 in a 2-player 
game), 3 achievement rings, 1 scoring token and 1 
player aid card. 
Choose any city achievement board and place 
it above the game board. Return the unused 
achievement boards to the box. Play with New York 
City or Rio de Janeiro for your first game. In 2-player 
games the middle space for each achievement is not 
used, so you should cover it with 1 achievement ring 
of a color which is not in use. 
Shuffle all the scoring cards together and place them 
in a face-down draw pile to the left of the game board.
Shuffle all the city tiles together and place them in 
face-down draw piles below the scoring cards and 
near the board.
A
B
C
D
SETUP
START OF A ROUND
D
C

Play begins with the player holding the star token and moves clockwise 
around the table. 
Each turn, the active player takes an item (or group of items) from the board 
and then places 1 of their workers in the designated worker space next to or 
under the item(s) taken. After the start player’s first turn of the round, they 
place the star token on the indicated bottom right space on the board. 
In a 3-4 player game, each player may place only 1 worker per row 
each round. In a 2-player game, they must place 2 workers per row over 
the course of the round. 
Workers, however, may be placed in any order (e.g., you may place your 
first worker in the 3rd row).
Each row provides a different resource to be used in the game. 
When a player chooses a face-down item, it is turned face-up and taken. 
The players may not look at a face-down item until it is chosen.
The rest of the turn depends on which row the worker was placed in:
In this example, you take the city tile and then 
place your worker in the worker space under 
the chosen city tile. All the items (or sets of 
items) on the board have a designated worker 
space next to or under the items.
The player takes the scoring 
card, places their worker 
on the designated worker 
space, and places the card 
face-up on the table beside 
their neighborhood.
The player takes the city tile and places their worker 
in the designated space (as in the top right image). 
Next, the player places the city tile face-up into their 
neighborhood. It must be placed fully adjacent to an 
existing tile, though it may be rotated to any orientation. 
The tiles have 3 types of spaces: city, park, and water. 
Any type of space may be placed next to any other type. 
A player’s neighborhood may never exceed 3 tiles in 
length and 3 tiles in width.
The player takes the feature tile(s), places their worker 
in the worker space, and then places each feature 
tile face-up on a space of the same type in their 
neighborhood. Feature tiles with a blue background are 
placed on water spaces; tiles with a green background 
are placed on park spaces; and tiles with a grey 
background are placed on building spaces with no 
building pieces on them. Only 1 feature tile may be 
placed per space. If the player cannot legally place a tile, 
or chooses not to place it, it is removed from the game.
The player takes the building pieces from 1 space 
(or, in the case of the last space, they draw 2 random 
pieces from the bag) and then places their worker in 
the designated worker space. Each building piece can 
be placed on a building space of the corresponding 
color or can be stacked on top of a piece of the same 
color (up to 4 pieces high). If the player cannot legally 
place a piece, or chooses not to place it, it is removed 
from the game. 
GAMEPLAY
SCORING CARD ROW
CITY TILE ROW
BUILDING PIECES ROW
FEATURE TILE ROW
Special Feature Tile. The feature tile with the 
grey box changes the color of any space to 
a “wild” space, so that any color of building 
piece may be placed on that space. Once a 
piece is placed, only pieces of the same color 
may be placed on top of it.

At the end of the player’s turn, they check to see if they have fulfilled any achievements listed on the 
city achievement board. If they have, they place 1 of their rings on the highest vacant number under that 
achievement. A player may claim multiple achievements on the same turn, but may only claim each 
achievement once per game. After checking for achievements, the player's turn is over and the player to 
their left takes their turn.
The following rules apply to all achievements: • “Adjacent” means orthogonal not diagonal. • An “area” 
means a group of orthogonally connected spaces. •All number requirements are a minimum, not exact (unless stated). • A 
special feature tile counts as an empty city space of any color for the purposes of achievements. • If you claim an achievement 
but later in the game no longer meet its requirements, you do not remove your achievement ring from the board.
Once all the workers have been used, the round is over. The player with the worker closest to the 
star space (the rightmost worker in the fourth row) takes the star token and becomes the first 
player for the next round. In a 3-player game, the remaining scoring card, city tile, feature tiles 
and building pieces are removed from the game.
Each player places their scoring token near the scoring 
track. The players calculate their scores as follows and 
move their disc on the track accordingly.
City achievement board
The points listed under any 
achievement rings they placed 
on the city achievement board.
Scoring cards
The Victory points listed on each of their 
scoring cards whose requirements have 
been met. Each scoring card scores for every 
occurrence of the shown requirement in their 
neighborhood.
The same configuration of spaces or building 
pieces may be scored by multiple scoring cards.
Water and park spaces
For each area of orthogonally connected 
water spaces in their neighborhood, score 
1/3/6/10 points for 1/2/3/4 different 
feature tiles in that area. 
Each area may score only 1 set.
Do the same with park spaces. 
Monument feature tiles 
Each monument feature tile (which shows 
a “2”) awards 2 Victory points.
The player with the most Victory points wins! 
In the case of a tie, the player with the most Victory points from 
achievements wins.
For a detailed scoring example, you can check the red player’s 
(the one at the bottom) current situation in the back of the box. 
He has managed to score 57 Victory points (10 for the City 
achievement board, 6 for Water and 3 for Park spaces, 2 for 
Monuments and 36 for Scoring Cards).
Visit https://devirgames.com/cities for a how to play video.
Authors: Steve Finn and Phil Walker-Harding
Illustrator: Jorge Tabanera
Editor: David Esbrí
Proofreader: William Niebling
Layout: Diego San Martín Pierron
CITY ACHIEVEMENT BOARDS
END OF A ROUND
END OF A GAME
CREDITS
LIVEABLE CITY
2 VP per set of 1 
red, blue, green and 
yellow building of 
any sizes.
X
After the 8th round (or the 4th round in a 2-player game), 
the game is over. 
www.devirgames.com
Via Augusta 153-157 
Entl. Local 4 
08021 - Barcelona
DEVIR CONTENIDOS S.L