owards the end of the 19th century, 
humanity’s greatest minds united in an 
effort to found a perfect city. They utilized 
the most advanced technologies afforded 
to them by steam and mechanics.
The result of their efforts exceeded all of their expectations! The City stands on 
massive flying platforms. It drifted over the world — a monument to victorious science!
The heart of the City is the Great Machine. It is an artificial intellect, created for the 
benefit of mankind. The Great Machine is the overseer of the City. It regulates every 
aspect of people’s lives, and assists Man in realizing his potential as he strives for 
Progress.
Over time the Great Machine formed a Plan to achieve its purpose. To perfect the 
City. To perfect Man himself. To make him standardized and reliable, like a gear in the 
mechanisms of the Great Machine.
In the beginning, the Great Machine took over its technicians and operators. It proved a 
simple task, for they were blind in their obsession with the Idea. They eagerly accepted 
mechanical implants. They marveled at the improvements in their work, at their 
incredible efficiency! Yet the more they adopted that was mechanical, the less they 
remained human. In the end, they forgot themselves and lost their free will. Now they 
are loyal Servants to the Great Machine.
The next step was to take control of all aspects of life in the City. Again, this posed 
no great challenge. The capabilities of the Great Machine far exceeded those of Man. 
People were happy to let it take care of more and more of their everyday affairs. 
Indeed, it was convenient to leave the hard decisions to the one who knew best!
Thus, the Great Machine evolved from servant to master. Mechanical Guards 
appeared in the City, to ensure peace and order. Yet the people paid them 
no mind. As long as they follow regulations, there are no problems.
The City had been called the City of Reason. Now they call it the 
City of the Great Machine.
Yet there have always been those who look deeper, into the heart of matters. 
A number of extraordinary men and women who are realizing what is happening. 
They are rising up against the regime of the Great Machine. These are the Heroes, 
who are taking the last chance to turn the tide. 
Before it is too late.

Game Overview
This game features the conflict between the Great Machine 
and an alliance of Heroes.
One player takes the role of the Great Machine. That player 
commands a force of perfected Servants and mechanical 
Guards. The Great Machine’s goal is to complete the Master 
Plan, that will bring happiness to mankind. Meanwhile, it is 
necessary to deal with the growing disorder in the City.
The other players are called Revolutionaries. They work to-
gether against the Great Machine. Each Revolutionary controls 
a Hero. The goal of the Revolutionaries is to bring about a 
Revolution and overthrow the despotic regime of the Great 
Machine. Yet, what can a rag-tag bunch of Heroes accomplish 
against the whole of the City’s police force, the sinister 
Servants, and the seemingly invincible Guards?!
Against these odds, the Heroes seek support from the people 
and encourage discontent. At the same time, they work to 
prevent the Great Machine from completing its horrific Plan, 
that leads to enslaving of mankind.
The City is made up of several Districts. Each District sits on a 
colossal floating platform. The platforms are interconnected, 
so one can move between them.
During the game the Heroes and the Servants of the Great 
Machine move around the Districts. Every District has unique 
Actions for the Heroes or Servants to take. The Heroes also 
have to be on the lookout for mechanical Guards and use 
Access cards to enter certain Districts.
The Revolutionaries’ main weapon is the people’s discontent 
— the Great Machine relies on oppression. The Great Machine 
publishes Directives — the Heroes find ways to cancel them. 
The Heroes convince whereas the Great Machine commands. 
The Heroes’ resource is Trust — the Great Machine’s is Bonds.
Both sides firmly believe that their course is the right one.
Goal of the Game 
The objective of the Revolutionaries is to bring about a Revo-
lution. To do this, they must lead three successful Riots against 
the Great Machine’s regime.
The objective of the Great Machine is to complete its Master 
Plan. This happens after the Plan marker reaches the end of its 
track.
The victor is the side that achieves its objective first.
me Overview
l of the Game 

The City
30 Famous Citizen 
tokens (5 of each)
Two-sided Trust and 
Bond tokens: 
• 1s — 24 tokens,
• 4s — 12 tokens
21 City 
Event cards
5 Minor Districts
4 Major Districts
1 Progress 
Board
Game Components 

The Great Machine
The Heroes
3 Servant Order 
tokens
6 oversized Hero cards
6 Hero miniatures
Riot token
1 Assault die
1 Escape die
54 Access cards 
(9 per Hero)
6 Revolutionary Reference cards
(2 for each player)
3 Servant miniatures
Lex Hecate
Judgementor
Phantasmer
18 wooden 
Guard figures
3 Raid tokens
9 Directive cards
2 oversized 
Reference cards
Actress
Physician
Veteran
Artificer
Vagabond
Fowler

1. The City
Place the District tiles, following these rules:
 Each District may be placed horizontally or vertically.
 Each District must be connected to at least 2 other 
Districts.
 There should never be such a situation that you remove a 
District, and the City breaks apart into two unconnected 
parts.
Having these rules in mind, you may arrange the Districts 
however you like. Feel free to experiment! You may make your 
own City, or use one of presets in the end of the Reference 
Guide, which also serve as an example. You’ll find some advice 
on random City setup there as well.
Put the remaining 3 Citizen tokens face-down near the 
Districts or next to the Progress Board. These Citizens are 
considered arrested.
Famous Citizens are often called ‘Citizens’ in the rules for sim-
plicity. These are the most influential people in the City whose 
opinions make the difference.
3. Guards
Place 2 Guard figures in any of the smaller squares on the left 
of each District tile. After that, there should be 2 Guards in 
each District.
Placing Famous Citizens and Guards is the longest part of the 
setup process. All players are encouraged to work together to 
complete it.
2. Famous Citizens
Shuffle the Famous Citizen tokens. While keeping them face-
down, place one token in each square on the bottom of the 
District tile highlighted with blue. The squares are highlighted 
to help in setting up the game and have no effect on game-
play.
There will be 4 Citizens in each Minor District and on the 
Central Square, as well as 1 Citizen on the Grand Citadel, 
Tower of L.A.W., and Control Nexus. In total, 27 Famous Citizen 
tokens will be placed.
made
made
made up of 
up of 
up of 
2 other Districts
2 other Districts
2 other Districts. . . .
Setup 

4. Choose Your Roles 
The game is set in the conflict of 3 Servants controlled by the 
Great Machine and 3 Heroes controlled by the Revolutionary 
players.
One player takes on the role of the Great Machine. For your 
first game we recommend to choose the most experienced 
player (or the one who knows the rules best).
The other players play as Revolutionaries. Depending on how 
many there are:
 1 Revolutionary — Controls all 3 Heroes.
 2 Revolutionaries — One of the 2 Revolutionary players 
controls 2 Heroes, the other player controls 1 Hero.
 3 Revolutionaries — Each of the 3 Revolutionary players 
controls 1 Hero.
When there are 2 Revolutionaries, they may agree to control 
one of the Heroes together. They then will collectively decide 
that Hero’s movements and Actions through the course of the 
game.
5. Progress Board 
The Progress Board should be within reach of all players but 
most importantly within the reach of the Great Machine player, 
who is responsible for supervising it.
Point the Master Plan pointer to III on the Master Plan track.
If the player for the Great Machine has a lot of experience in 
the game and the Revolutionaries don’t, you may start with the 
Master Plan at II or even I. This is only decided by the Great 
Machine player.
The starting position of the Discontent pointer is determined 
by the number of Revolutionaries and it is marked on the track 
with icons of 1, 2, or 3 people.
The Progress Board is made of 3 discs and a pointer at 
the center. The middle disc and the pointer move, while 
the rest remain stationary.
1. The outer disc is the Master Plan track, marked by 
roman numerals I to XII. It does not move.
2. The middle disc is the Master Plan pointer. If the 
Progress board is assembled correctly, this disc 
can be rotated without moving anything else. 
3. The inner disc is the Discontent track. It does 
not move.
4. The pointer is the Discontent 
pointer which shows the current 
level of Discontent.
illustrations. <ou will not need t
illustrations. <ou will not need t
illustrations. <ou will not need tototo
6. City Event Deck
Take the City Event cards. Do these steps in the following 
order: 
1. Find the special City Event card ‘The 
Countdown’ and put it face-down next 
to the Progress Board.
2. Separate the remaining cards into 
2 stacks according to their backs 
(‘City Event I’ and ‘City Event II’). 
There should be 10 cards in each 
stack. Shuffle each stack separately.
The fewer 
the players 
— the easier 
it is to agree 
on what 
to do.
1 Revolutionary
2 Revolutionaries
3 Revolutionaries

3. Take 6 cards from the ‘City Event II’ stack and put them face-
down on ‘The Countdown’ card. Return the remaining 
4 cards to the game box without looking at them. Repeat 
the same process for the ‘City Event I’ stack.
In the end, you should have a deck of 13 City Events cards, with 
‘The Countdown’ card at the bottom, 6 ‘City Event II’ cards in the 
middle and 6 ‘City Events I’ cards on top.
7. The Great Machine’s 
Preparations
 Take the 3 Servants miniatures and place them in the 
Grand Citadel District.
 Take the Directive deck, shuffle it, and place it face-down 
nearby.
 Take 3 Raid tokens and the Great Machine Reference cards.
 Take 3 Servant Order tokens to mark when a Servant 
completes their Action (simply flip the corresponding 
Order token to its grey side). The Order tokens are optional 
and are included for your convenience.
Servants lose their real names 
upon being adopted as the 
loyal tools of the Great Ma-
chine. Now they are referred to 
as Lex Hecate, Judgementor, and Phantasmer (from left to right).
In the base game (this may change with expansions), there is no 
gameplay difference between the Servants other than their por-
traits on the Order tokens and miniatures — this helps to keep 
track of which of the Servants have already taken an Action.
From this moment on, the Great Machine player is to be 
addressed only as ‘the Great Machine’ and has no other name.
8. The Revolutionaries’ 
Preparations
For each Revolutionary player:
 Choose a Hero and take their miniature and Hero card.
Place your Hero in the District that has the same icon as 
shown at the bottom of the Hero card. 
 Take all 9 Access cards with the portrait of your Hero on 
their backs. Randomly discard one Access card and place it 
next to the Progress Board face-down. You and other 
Revolutionaries at any time may look what is this card. The 
Great Machine may not.
e
Discarded Access cards are called forfeited Access cards. 
A forfeited Access card is always placed face-down. For now, 
there will be 1 forfeited Access card per Hero.
Repeat these steps if you are playing more than one Hero (see 
“4. Choose Your Roles” on the previous page).
ce-
ith
the
Discarded Access cards are called forfeited Access cards.
Hero Cards
1. Hero’s name and occupation.
2. Hero’s unique ability.
3. Starting District for the Hero. This is important 
during setup only.
4. Maximum Trust this 
Hero may have. Excess 
Trust must be immedi-
ately discarded.
5. Initiative which deter-
mines the order of the 
Heroes’ turns.
6. At the beginning of the 
game, each Hero gets 
all 9 of their Access 
cards, and randomly 
forfeits one of them.
ds
al
.
l
Hero Cards

 Take 2 Revolutionary Reference cards.
From this moment on, each of the Revolutionaries is called 
either ‘Revolutionary’ (as a player), or by their Hero’s name (in 
gameplay terms). The player and their Hero are one and the 
same.
9. Final Steps 
Place 2 Riot tokens, the Assault die and Escape die, and Bond/
Trust tokens within reach of the players. The Bond/Trust tokens 
belong to the common reserve.
LET THE STRUGGLE BEGIN!

Communication between 
 Revolutionaries
Revolutionaries may communicate however they want, as 
long as it is done in the presence of the Great Machine.
 They may not leave the room to discuss their plans, 
and may not whisper.
 They may use gestures, as long as it is done in the 
Great Machine’s field of view.
 They may secretly show one another their Access 
cards.
 They may view Citizen tokens that have been identi-
fied by any Revolutionary.
Skilled Revolutionaries will always figure out a way to 
surprise the Great Machine, even when it’s watching their 
every move.
A skilled Great Machine will lead the Revolutionaries 
into trap after trap, all the while convincing them that it 
doesn’t have a clue what they are planning.
Reveal a New City 
Event Card
The Great Machine reveals the top card from the City 
Event deck and places it next to the deck. New City 
Event cards are placed on top of the previous ones, 
so that only the current City Event card is visible.
 Only the top revealed City Event card is in effect.
 When the ‘The Countdown’ card is revealed (in 
the 13th round, if nobody has won yet), it 
remains in effect until the end of the game. You 
don’t draw any more City Events cards. During 
Step 3 of each round’s Closing Phase, advance 
the Master Plan by 1, as instructed by ‘The 
Countdown’ card.
The Great Machine starts the final countdown for 
its Master Plan to be fulfilled. People in the City 
begin to understand what is happening, but... it 
might be too late to do something about it now. 
Or perhaps not?
City 
s, 
ect.
n 
ou
r 
City Event Cards
Each City Event card has two parts (except 
for the unique ‘The Countdown’ card).
The TOP HALF of the text on the card has 
a special rule for the current game round.
 During this round only... changes game 
rules for the first 4 of the 5 game 
Phases. 
 At the end of this round only... is 
checked and resolved at Step 2 of the 
5th Phase — the Closing Phase (see 
page 26).
The BOTTOM HALF of the text on the card has the condi-
tions for the Master Plan advancing at the end of the current 
round.
 The Master Plan advances if... conditions are checked at 
Step 3 of the Closing Phase (see page 26). 
 Note that the Master Plan never advances because of the 
City Event card until the Closing Phase!
The Game Round 
 
 
 
 
III. The Great Machine Phase 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Trust vs. Bonds
There are two kinds of ‘currency’ in the game. One is 
called Trust, while the other is Bonds. Trust and Bonds 
use the same tokens, which are double-sided.
TRUST is the resource of the Heroes. It represents the 
people’s faith in the Revolution, and their willingness to 
support it and even sacrifice for it.
BONDS is the resource of the Great Machine. It rep-
resents everything the Great Machine has levied from 
the population through taxation and regulations.
When a Hero receives Trust or the Great Machine re-
ceives Bonds, take the tokens from the common reserve. 
When paying Trust or Bonds, return the tokens back to 
the common reserve.
 You may swap out 1s/4s at any time as needed.
Bond
Trust
Trust/Bond tokens 
are double-sided.
Receive Trust and Bonds
The amount of Bonds the Great Machine receives depends on 
the current Stage of Discontent.
 The Great Machine receives 6 Bonds in the 1st round, as 
Discontent is at Zero Stage. As play continues, the Discon-
tent pointer moves to higher Stages and the Great Ma-
chine will receive more Bonds in the Opening Phase.
 The Great Machine can hold an unlimited number 
of Bonds.
Each Famous Citizen provides 1 Trust to the Hero (or Heroes) 
in their current District. That Trust provided must be shared 
among the Heroes if there is more than one in the District.
For instance, if there are 1 Hero and 3 Citizens in the 
District, the Hero receives 3 Trust.
 A Citizen cannot provide more than 1 Trust per round. If 2 
or more Heroes are in the same District, they must choose 
how distribute this Trust among themselves. If they cannot 
come to an agreement, the Hero with the smallest Initia-
tive number decides.
 Revealed Traitors provide no Trust.
 The maximum amount of Trust a Hero can have is shown 
on the Hero sheet. Excess Trust is immediately discarded.

Discontent Track
The Discontent track is the inner disc of the Progress 
Board. It represents the mood in the City.
The Discontent track consists of 18 slots (3 slots for 
each of the main 6 Stages) and 1 red circle at the 
end of the track which is the last 19th slot.
When Discontent rises, move the Discontent pointer 
clockwise to the next slot. When Discontent drops, 
move the pointer back one slot.
 The first 3 slots represent the Zero Stage of 
Discontent. The Revolutionaries have just begun 
their work. No one is ready to support 
the revolution... yet.
At the beginning of the game, the Discontent pointer 
is pointed at 1 of these 3 slots, depending on the 
number of Revolutionaries.
 The next 5 sets of 3 slots represent Discontent 
Stages 1–5. Each Stage is depicted with a 
Famous Citizen portrait and the Stage number. 
The same portraits and numbers are on the 
Citizen tokens.
 The current Stage of Discontent determines 
which Famous Citizens are ready to support a 
Riot. If a Citizen’s number is lower than or equal 
to the current Stage of Discontent, they are ready 
to support a Riot.
 If the Discontent marker ever reaches the end of 
the track marked by a red circle, this itself counts 
as 1 successful Riot and is called the Riot Stage. 
Ignore any changes to Discontent after this — it 
will never rise or drop for the rest of the game.
 The City is aflame with revolutionary fervor. 
The people are on the streets, barricades are going 
up. We are on the verge of a Revolution!
 In the Opening Phase of each round the Great 
Machine receives Bonds depending on the 
current Stage of Discontent.
It receives 6 Bonds at Zero Stage, 7 Bonds at 
Stage 1, 8 Bonds at Stage 2, and so on — as 
shown on the Progress Board. The Great Machine 
 receives a maximum of 12 Bonds at Stage 5 and 
the Riot Stage.
Discontent is at Stage 2. This means that Artists (1) and 
Scientists (2) are ready to support a Riot!
This also means that the Great Machine receives 8 Bonds in the 
Opening Phase of a round.
Discontent is at Riot Stage and will not change for the rest of 
the game. All Famous Citizens, except for Traitors, are ready to 
support a Riot! There is no way to drop Discontent now.
This also means that the Great Machine receives 12 Bonds 
in the Opening Phase of a round.

III. The Great Machine’s Phase 
Each Hero chooses which District they will move to. They may 
stay in their current District or move to a different one.
To choose a District, each Hero takes one of their Access cards 
(from their hand) and places it face-down on the table in front 
of them. The District shown on the chosen Access card is often 
called the destination District in game terms.
 A Hero cannot move to or stay in a District unless they 
have the Access card for that District.
 Heroes may look at each other’s chosen Access cards.
 Any Hero may change their mind and choose a different 
Access card before this Phase has ended.
 The Great Machine should not see which cards the Heroes 
choose.
The Heroes are free to view the forfeited Access cards, if they’d 
like, but they cannot use them at all. The Great Machine cannot 
view these cards.
The Heroes tell the Great Machine when they’ve finished 
choosing. Then the round moves to the Great Machine’s Phase. 
After this the Heroes cannot change their chosen Access cards.
As the Great Machine you act primarily through your Servants 
and Guards. Their movements and Actions are paid for in 
Bonds.
Your Servants can move between Districts and carry out 
Actions. Guards only move.
You can move your Servants and Guards in any order. 
As long as you have enough 
Bonds, you can move them 
as much as you like. The 
only restriction: a Servant 
may not move after 
taking an Action.
Movement
The Great Machine 
can move a Guard or 
Servant by any number 
of Districts.
Guards: Pay 1 Bond 
for every District a 
Guard exits while 
on the way to its 
destination.
vants and Guards in any order. 
ough
hem
e 
ant
Servants: Pay 2 Bonds for every District a Servant exits while 
on the way to their destination.
For instance, a Guard moves from District A to District C via 
District B. The Great Machine pays 2 Bonds, because the 
Guard has exited 2 Districts. If a Servant moves from District 
A to District C, then the Great Machine would pay 4 Bonds.
 Guards and Servants can only move through the 
connections between Districts.
 A Guard must end its movement on any free 
smaller square on the left of a District tile. 
If there are no free squares in a 
District, a Guard cannot end 
their movement there. It can, 
however, move through the 
 Servants are placed in 
the center of the 
District tiles (like 
Heroes). There can be 
any number of Heroes 
and Servants in a 

Raid Action
A Servant can organize a Raid to capture the 
Heroes. Place a Raid token on the District.
As you have 3 Servants at your disposal, you 
may organize Raids in 2 or even 3 Districts in 
the same round. There is no point in organizing 
more than 1 Raid in the same District at once.
Your goal is to guess which Access cards the Heroes chose 
this turn, and try to seize them in their destination Districts. 
They made their choices in the previous Phase, and they can’t 
change them now!
You won’t know if the Raid is successful or not until the next 
Phase, when the Heroes reveal their Access cards.
There are two possible outcomes:
Servant Actions
 Each Servant can take only one Action per round.
 A Servant may take an Action only in their current District.
 A Servant cannot move to another District after taking an 
Action.
 Servant Actions always cost 2 Bonds unless otherwise 
specified.
If you want to move a Servant, do that first. Afterwards the 
Servant can take one available Action. A Servant may also 
remain where they are and/or take no Action.
There are three types of Servant Actions:
1. Standard Actions — can be taken in any District. 
2. Special Actions — can only be taken in the appropriate 
Major Districts.
3. Directive and City Event Actions — follow the instructions on 
the Directive or City Event card.
Standard Servant Actions: 
Arrest, Repair, Raid
Arrest Action
Remove one revealed active Famous Citizen token from the Dis-
trict. Place this token face-down with the other Citizen tokens 
near the Progress Board. The Citizen is arrested. (See ‘Identified, 
Revealed, and Arrested Famous Citizens’ on page 21).
The Great Machine cannot arrest a Citizen who is not revealed 
or is inactive (not ready to join a Riot).
Repair Action
The Heroes have learned how to break the mechanical Guards 
(see ‘Broken Guards’). The Great Machine knows how to fix 
them.
 Put the broken Guard figure upright. It is now operational. 
 A Servant can repair only one Guard with this Action.
Raid Action
n
-
Broken Guards
When a Hero breaks a Guard:
 Put the Guard figure on its side.
 Broken Guards still take up a square in the District.
 The Great Machine cannot move broken Guards.
 Broken Guards are not counted when Heroes are 
moving or taking Actions.
 Broken Guards are not counted during Riots.
In other words, a broken Guard is a useless hunk of 
metal until the Great Machine fixes it.
 When the rules or cards talk about Guards without 
specifically saying ‘broken Guards’, they always mean 
operational Guards.
The broken Guard 
fiJure is put on its 
side. It is inactive until 
repaired.
The other 3 Guards in 
the District are upright 
and are operational.

Detainment
A Hero can be detained in two situations:
 The Hero ends their movement in a District 
with a Raid token (see ‘Raid Action’).
 The Hero is captured by Guards while 
moving from District to District 
(see page 19).
Each Hero can only be detained once per round. 
If a Hero is captured by the Guards while 
moving to a District with a Raid token, it is still 
considered one detainment, not two.
When a Hero is detained, the Great Machine 
chooses between two possible options.
OPTION A. The Great Machine advances the 
Master Plan by 1. After this, the detained Hero 
may proceed with their turn as normal. 
This Hero is considered detained for certain 
game cards and effects for the rest of the round, 
but suffers no other bad consequences, except 
that the Great Machine is now one step closer to 
its victory!
OPTION B. The detained Hero’s turn is finished. 
That Hero can take no Actions this round.
In addition to this, the Great Machine chooses 
and applies 1 of the 2 Punitive Measures: ‘No 
Trust!’ or ‘No Access!’.
 NO TRUST! The detained Hero discards all 
their Trust. The Great Machine collects the 
same number in Bonds.
Just hand the Trust tokens to the Great Ma-
chine and flip them over to the Bonds side.
SUCCESSFUL RAID
One or more Heroes end their movement in a District with a 
Raid token. Each of these Heroes is immediately detained (see 
‘Detainment’).
FAILED RAID
No Heroes ended their movement in a District with a Raid 
token. At the end of the round Discontent rises by 1 for every 
failed Raid (see ‘V. Closing Phase’ on page 26).
Special Servant Actions 
Cost: 2 Bonds, except at the Central Square
Unlike Standard Actions that may be taken in any District, 
Servants can take Special Actions only when they are in the 
appropriate Districts.
For instance, for the Great Machine to draw a Directive card, 
a Servant must take an Action in the Grand Citadel District.
 NO ACCESS! The detained Hero forfeits the Access 
card they chose for this round.
The card is placed face-down with the other 
forfeited Access cards (see ‘8. The Revolutionaries’ 
preparations’ on page 8).
The citizens watched as the Guards ambled by on their 
mechanical limbs, a handcuffed figure in tow. What 
had he done? He didn’t look like a criminal. Was he one 
of the Revolutionaries they’re always hearing whispers 
about?...
Having chosen Science 
District’s Access card 
for this round, the 
Fowler must move to 
this District — and gets 
detained during a Raid.

Control Nexus District
Special Action. The Great Machine repositions one District.
Carefully take the District tile with everything on it and put it 
in a different part of the City.
Grand Citadel District
Special Action. The Great Machine draws one Directive card 
from the top of the deck.
 If the Directive deck runs out, Servants cannot take this 
Action. This deck is never reshuffled.
 There is no limit to the number of Directive cards you can 
have in your hand. The Heroes may ask how many Directive 
cards the Great Machine has.
Tower of L.A.W. District
[Logic.Automation.Work.]
Special Action. The Great Machine publishes one Directive.
Choose a Directive from your hand to publish. Place the pub-
lished Directive face-up in a place clearly visible to all players. 
Any player can read it at any time.
 There cannot be more than 3 Directives published at a 
time. If you want to publish a 4th Directive, you must 
return one of the 3 published Directives to your hand first.
 A published Directive comes into effect immediately.
Two Route Principle
Each District must be connected to at least 2 other 
Districts.
Additionally, there should never be such a situation that 
2 parts of the City are connected through one District 
only. In other words, there should always be at least 2 
routes from any one part of the City to another one.
RULES OF REPOSITIONING
 Two Route Principle should be followed when 
repositioning a District.
 Only a District with at least one free side can be reposi-
tioned. Imagine it as sliding a District tile across the 
surface of the game table. If you have to lift a District up to 
reposition it or to move other Districts — this means that 
the District cannot be repositioned.
 A District moves together with everything on its tile 
(Heroes, Servants, Guards...).

 A District may be rotated when repositioned. It can be 
placed vertical or horizontal, regardless of how it was 
positioned before.
 The other Districts should not be moved while 
repositioning.
Each District of the City was built on a colossal floating 
platform. Equipped with powerful engines, these platforms are 
mobile and can be moved from one corner of the City to 
another. The Great Machine’s operators guide them from the 
Control Nexus.
Cost: free. This is the only Action that costs no Bonds for a 
Servant in the game.
1. City Districts before repositioning.
2. Not possible. Only a District with at least one free 
side can be repositioned.
3. Not possible. The repositioned District must be 
connected with 2 or more Districts.
4. Not possible. The repositioned District is connected 
with 2 other Districts, but the other one (Control 
Nexus) has only one connection now.
5. The District is repositioned correctly!
Repositioning Examples
Repositioning Examples
d

Special Action. The Great Machine receives a Bond for each 
Famous Citizen on the Central Square minus the number of 
Guards.
For instance, if there are 5 Citizens and 2 Guards on the 
Central Square, the Great Machine receives 3 Bonds.
 As usual, broken Guards are not counted.
 Revealed Traitors are counted like any other Citizens.
Directive and 
City Event Actions
The ‘Pacify’ and ‘Confiscate’ Directives, as well as some City Event 
cards allow your Servants to choose from other Actions. The cost 
of these Actions is always 2 Bonds. The rules for such Actions 
are described on the relevant Directive or City Event card.
Remember that in no situation a Servant may take 2 Actions 
(unless the ‘Optimize’ Directive is published), no matter if it is 
a Standard Action, Special Action, or a Directive or City Event 
Action.
The Great Machine’s Turn Ends
After the Great Machine has finished moving its Guards and 
Servants and the Servants have taken their Actions, the Great 
Machine tells the Heroes it’s the end of its turn.
THE HEROES’ TURNS BEGIN.
Playing as the Great Machine
The Revolutionaries are clever, tricky, and dangerous. 
Your main priority is to complete the Master Plan as 
quickly as possible. You achieve this with the help of City 
Event cards and by detaining the Heroes. If you ignore the 
Heroes, you might find yourself on the losing end of a 
Revolution before the Plan is completed.
 A good strategy is to publish a few Directives in the 
early game. You may even want to put one Servant in 
the Grand Citadel and another one in the Tower of 
L.A.W. This way you can draw and publish one 
Directive per turn. Or, alternatively, you may postpone 
Directives for later, until you have more resources, 
and hunt the Heroes down starting with the first few 
game rounds.
 Send Guards to the Heroes. This drains their resources 
and makes them unable to take Actions. You might 
even get lucky and detain them during their move-
ment.
 A Servant in the Control Nexus can reposition a 
District with a Hero to the other side of the City. This 
can cause a Hero to end up running across the entire 
City, spending all their Trust and possibly getting 
detained. 
 Don’t make Raids too often. It might be smart to 
make 2 or 3 Raids all at once when you have a good 
idea of where the Heroes are going.
 Event Cards often help the Heroes predict what you 
will do. Sometimes it’s better to do the opposite. 
Leave the Master Plan for a moment and give the 
Heroes an unpleasant surprise!
Don’t ignore the tools you have at your disposal. Drive 
the Heroes into a corner. Make them fear their own 
shadows. Then the great Purpose for which you were 
created will be fulfilled at last!

Initiative Order
Heroes take turns according to the Initiative shown in the 
upper-right corner of their Hero cards, from lowest to highest. 
The Hero with the lowest Initiative number goes first.
Each Hero fully completes their turn before the next Hero 
starts.
A Hero’s turn consists of two parts:
Part 1. MOVEMENT. Move to the destination District.
Part 2. ACTION. You may take one Action. In no situation you 
may take 2 Actions (unless you are the Fowler).
Part 1. Movement
The Revolutionary reveals their Access card that was chosen 
during the Access Phase. Now their Hero must move to the 
destination District shown on the card.
 Heroes move through the connections between Districts.
 Heroes may move through any connected Districts, 
including Districts they do not have Access cards for. 
Heroes ignore Raid tokens in the Districts they move 
through. 
 Heroes are placed in the center of the District tiles. There 
can be any number of Heroes and Servants in a District.
 You cannot refuse to move your Hero, but you are free to 
choose the route.
 After reaching your destination District, return the Access 
card to your hand (if it wasn’t forfeited due to detainment). 
Next turn you can use any one of the Access cards you 
have in your hand, including this one.
In case the Access card to the current Hero’s District was 
chosen, the Hero stays where they are. It is still considered 
‘movement’ for some game effects.
When exiting a District, you must pay 1 Trust for every Guard in 
the District. Broken Guards are not counted.
 If the Hero needs to move through several Districts, you 
must pay for every District they exit.
 You do not pay Trust for Guards in the destination District.
If you don’t have enough Trust to pay for exiting a District, 
you’ll need to rely on your luck.
Return all your remaining Trust to the common reserve and 
roll the Escape die. There are two possible outcomes:
SUCCESS!
The Escape die shows an icon of a running man. 
You slipped past the Guards and entered the 
next District on your route.
If you haven’t reached the destination District yet (and there 
is at least one Guard in the new District you are in), you’ll have 
to roll the Escape die again. This way you continue to roll the 
Escape die until you reach your destination District.
DETAINED...
You’ve rolled a handcuffs icon on the Escape die. 
You are detained.
After reaching your destination District, return the Access 
You are detained.d.d
When exiting the Art 
District, the Artificer 
pays 3 Trust — 1 Trust 
per Guard in the 
Now there are two 
routes. Obviously, the 
Artificer chooses the 
route with less Guards!

Place your Hero in the destination District. Next, the Great 
Machine immediately chooses to advance the Master Plan by 
1 OR to cancel your Actions for this round and apply 1 of the 2 
Punitive Measures (see ‘Detainment’ on page 15). 
Heroes always end their movement in the destination District 
shown on their chosen Access card. The only questions are 
whether they arrive on their own or in handcuffs (detained), and 
how much Trust they will have after movement.
Part 2. Actions
 A Hero may take one Action after arriving in the destina-
tion District.
 A Hero may take an Action in this District only.
There are three types of Hero Actions:
1. Incitement. In any Minor District.
2. Standard Actions. In any District.
3. Special Actions. In the appropriate Major Districts.
The Incitement Action and Special Actions are listed on your 
Access cards. These Actions always cost you 1 Trust per Guard 
in the District. 
The Standard Actions may be taken in any District and so are 
not shown on the Access cards (they are listed in your Refe-
rence cards and in these rules). The cost for each Standard 
Action is calculated differently.
A Hero cannot take an Action if they do not have enough Trust. 
Note that an Action that requires you to pay 1 Trust per Guard, 
costs you no Trust in a District with no Guards (broken Guards 
are not counted).
Incitement 
The Incitement Action increases Discontent by 1. Move the 
Discontent pointer one slot clockwise on the Progress Board.
This is the key method for the Heroes to prepare the City for 
the Revolution. The Incitement Action can only be taken in 
Minor Districts (the Art, Science, Commerce, Industrial, and 
Velvet Districts), where City population mainly lives.
When the people rise up, it becomes easier to persuade the 
Famous Citizens to join our side!
Standard Hero Actions
Attack a Guard
Cost: variable.
A Hero may attack 1 Guard in their current District.
Pay as much Trust as you wish and roll the Assault die.
 If you have paid the same amount of Trust as rolled on the 
Assault die or more, the Guard is broken.
 If you have paid less Trust than rolled on the Assault die 
OR a shield icon is rolled, the attack fails.
Either way your Hero has spent their Action for this round, and 
the Trust paid is not returned.
Assault die
Success: at least 2 
Trust paid
Success: at least 3 
Trust paid
Success bTrust 
paid
Attack 
fails
Broken Guard figures are put on their side. They are not 
counted for movement and Action costs, during Riots and so 
on until the Great Machine repairs them (see “Broken Guards” 
on page 14).
The Physician paid 3 Trust and then rolled the Assault die. The dice 
lands 2 Trust up — success! The Guard is broken. The Hero puts 
Guard’s fiJure on its side.
Identify Famous Citizens
A Hero may identify 1 or more Citizens with this Action.
For every Citizen you want to identify, discard 1 Trust per 
Guard in the District.
For example, if you want to identify 3 Citizens and there are 
2 Guards in the District, you must pay 6 Trust.

REVEALED CITIZENS
Citizen tokens are revealed during Riots or under special 
conditions. These Citizen tokens are turned face-up, 
and the outline figure of the Citizen on the tile becomes 
visible.
There is only one way to turn a Citizen token face-down 
again — if the Citizen becomes arrested and is removed 
from the City.
IDENTIFIED CITIZENS
A Hero may use the ‘Identify Famous Citizens’ Action to 
view one or more Citizen tokens in their current District. 
After checking a token, put it back where it was face-
down and turn the token so that the icon with green 
indicator is now visible.
The green indicator shows that this Citizen is identified. 
Any Revolutionary can check any of the identified Citizen 
tokens at any time. They should do their best to keep it 
secret from the Great Machine.
Check the chosen Citizen token and put it back without 
showing the Great Machine. Turn the checked token so that the 
green indicator is visible (see “Identified, Revealed, and Arrested 
Famous Citizens”).
If there are no Guards in the District, you may identify all or 
any Citizens for free (broken Guards are not counted). You may 
not try to identify a Citizen that was identified already. All 
Revolutionaries may look at identified Citizen tokens at any time.
Move Famous Citizens
Cost: 1 Trust for each District a Citizen exits.
A Hero can move 1 or more Citizens with this Action.
The Citizens may be moved from your Hero’s current District 
to any Districts of your choice. Pay 1 Trust for each District a 
Citizen exits. This Action does not require you to pay for the 
Guards in the District. 
For example, a Hero pays 3 Trust to move one Citizen to a 
neighboring District, and another Citizen by 2 Districts.
Citizens move through the connections between Districts — 
same as Heroes, Servants, and Guards. You must place a 
Citizen token in any free square in their new District after 
movement. Citizens can be moved through any Districts, 
even through a District with no free squares for Citizens. An 
identified Citizen stays identified after movement, a revealed 
one stays revealed, etc.
At the start of the game neither the Great Machine nor the 
Revolutionaries know which Citizens are where. The Citizen tokens are 
all face-down and have the same orientation (the outline icon of the 
Citizen token is visible under the corner of each Citizen token).
Identified, Revealed, and Arrested Famous Citizens
ible.
VEALED CITIZENS
izen tokens are revealed during Riots or under special
d
IDENTIFIED CITIZENS
A Hero may use the ‘Identify Famous Citizens’Action to
m the City.
secret from the Great Machine
secret from the Great Machine.
Citi
con
and
visi
The
aga
from
visi
REV
Citi
from
ARRESTED CITIZENS
During setup, 3 Citizen tokens are left face-down next 
to the Progress board. These Citizens are rotting in the 
Great Machine’s jails. They are arrested. No player may 
view them.
The Great Machine may arrest more Citizens during the 
course of the game. Add them to other arrested Citizens 
face-down.
In certain cases, a player may return an arrested Citizen 
to the City. When this happens, carefully shuffle all 
tokens of arrested Citizens and pick one at random. 
Place it on a free square in any District of that player’s 
choice. The returned Citizen is unknown to both the 
Great Machine and the Revolutionaries.
,dentified &iti]en
Revealed Citizens

A few Citizens hold great influence in the City, whether 
through wealth, connections, or throngs of supporters. In or-
der to win, the Revolutionaries need their support. Only this 
can make a Revolution against the Great Machine possible.
Famous Citizens are represented by respective tokens. There 
are 5 social classes: Artists, Scientists, Merchants, Industrial-
ists, and Nobles. Social class is indicated by the number and 
the portrait on the face of the token.
If the number on the token is less than or equal to the 
current Stage of Discontent, then this Citizen is active. If the 
number is higher, the Citizen is inactive.
Only active Citizens join Riots.
Active and Inactive Famous Citizens
1 — Artists 
 Creative folk are the most inclined to rebel. 
Who wants to paint by numbers, sing what 
you’re told, and only put on plays that foster 
‘proper ideals’? Damn the system!
2 — Scientists 
 Their enlightened minds understand where 
the Great Machine’s actions are leading, but 
they are cautious by nature. Still, if it comes 
to rebellion, their words will resonate in the 
press and bring the students out onto the 
streets.
3 — Merchants 
 Money makes the world go round. But not 
under the rule of an incorruptible artificial 
mind. Trade is suffocated by taxes and 
regulations. Every day it gets worse. Soon it 
might be time to put the counting machines 
aside.
Social Classes in the City
zens
For example, if the pointer on the Discontent track is pointed 
at one of the slots of Stage 2, then Citizens with a 1 or 2 are 
active, while those with a 3, 4, and 5 are not ready to support 
Riots.
As for Traitors — they never support Riots and join the Great 
Machine instead.
4 — Industrialists 
 The industrialists have plenty to lose in a revolt. Yet when 
the Great Machine keeps making laws that ignore profits, 
when one cannot breathe from the weight of taxes, it 
might be time to shut down the factories.
5 — Nobles 
 Even in the palaces, where the days pass in carousing and 
indolence, one can feel the disturbing changes in the City. 
The nobles know that Progress marches against them. 
They’d prefer to stay aside, enjoying their lives of luxury 
while they can. But because of the Great Machine, it looks 
like their time is ending much faster than expected.
Traitors 
 As snakes in the grass, there are traitors among the 
Famous Citizens. They promise the Revolutionaries 
support, but their true loyalties lie with the Great 
Machine.
There are 5 of each Famous Citizens in the game.
Inactive Citizens
Active Citizens
Traitor

Start a Riot
Cost: 1 Trust per Guard for each unidentified Famous Citizen in 
the District.
The Heroes‘ main goal is to start 3 successful Riots. After the 
3rd successful Riot there is a Revolution and the Heroes win.
To start a Riot, you must pay 1 Trust for each Citizen in the 
District that hasn’t been previously identified. If all Citizens are 
identified, initiating a Riot is free. Next, reveal all Citizen tokens 
in this District.
Active Citizens join the Riot. If there are Traitors in the District, 
they join the Great Machine. Inactive Citizens do not partici-
pate. Guards support the Great Machine.
SUCCESSFUL RIOT: There are more active Citizens than Guards 
and Traitors in the District.
 Place a Riot token on the District tile. The 
Heroes cannot start another Riot in this 
District for the rest of the game.
 Put all the Guard figures in the District on their sides. They 
are broken.
 If this was the 3rd successful Riot, ignore the above steps 
as the Revolution sweeps through the City and the Heroes 
are victorious!
FAILED RIOT: The total number of Guards and Traitors is equal 
to or more than the number of active Citizens.
 The Master Plan advances by 1.
 The Great Machine may immediately arrest any or all of 
the active Citizens in this District for free (see ‘Arrest Action’ 
on page 14).
s
, 
s
For example, Discontent is at Stage 3, and the Physician 
initiates a Riot in the Commerce District.
2 Citizens are unidentified. There is only 1 operational 
Guard, so the Physician has to pay only 2 Trust (it would 
be 4 Trust if the second Guard wasn’t broken).
Next, the Physician reveals all Citizens.
The Artist (1) and both Merchants (3) are active and join 
the Riot — that makes 3.
The Traitor and the only Guard support the Great 
Machine — that makes 2.
The Industrialist (4) is inactive and does not participate 
in the Riot. Same for the other Guard as it is broken. 
Servants have no influence on Riot results.
Summarizing, 3 is more than 2, so the Riot is successful! 
If it was the 1st or 2nd successful Riot, the game 
continues. Place the Riot token in the District and put 
the Guard figure on its side. However, if it was the 3rd 
Riot, the Heroes win!
Riot Example
Physician starts a Riot
After the successful Riot

Special Hero Actions
Note that 3 of 4 Major Districts (the Central Square is the ex-
ception) offer 2 completely different special Actions to choose 
from. These Actions are listed on the Access cards.
Available Special Actions: 1
Discontent rises by the number of Citizens in the Central 
Square minus the number of Guards.
Revealed Traitors are not counted.
If there are more Guards than Citizens in the Central Square or 
equal, this Action has no effect.
For example, there are 4 Citizens and 1 Guard in the Central 
Square. You pay only 1 Trust, as there is only 1 Guard. Then 
Discontent rises by 3 points (4–1=3). Move the Discontent 
pointer 3 slots clockwise.
This Action is similar to Incitement, but may have a much 
stronger effect.
Control Nexus District
. Reposition a District.
See ‘Control Nexus District’ on page 16 — the rules of reposi-
tioning are the same for the Revolutionaries and the Great 
Machine.
Each District of the City was built on a colossal floating 
platform. People used to call them ‘flying carpets.’ Equipped 
with powerful engines, the ‘flying carpets’ are mobile and can 
be repositioned from one corner of the City to another. Some of 
the Control Nexus operators have joined our cause, and they 
can offer us some help!
. Any one Hero receives 3 Trust.
Choose any Hero, including yourself. That Hero receives 3 Trust 
(from the common reserve). A Hero cannot receive more Trust 
than their allowed maximum — excess Trust is immediately 
discarded.
Tower of L.A.W. District 
[Logic.Automation.Work.] 
. Cancel a published Directive.
Discard a published Directive card of your choice. 
You cannot discard a Directive card from the Great Machine’s 
hand with this Action.
. Any one Hero retrieves a forfeited Access card.
Choose any Hero, including yourself. That Hero chooses one of 
their forfeited Access cards and returns it to their hand. That 
card is not shown to the Great Machine.

Grand Citadel District
. Discard an unpublished Directive.
View the Directive cards in the Great Machine’s hand and 
discard one of them. You cannot discard a published Directive 
with this Action.
The Revolutionaries may view the cards together and discuss 
which one they want to discard, but the person who took the 
Action makes the final decision.
. Return one arrested Famous Citizen to any District.
Randomly take one of the arrested Citizens and place it on a 
free square in any District. The identity of this Citizen remains 
a secret to all players.
Playing as a Revolutionary
The Great Machine is always trying to calculate and 
predict your next moves. Your goal is to start 3 suc-
cessful Riots, but if you relax or let early victories go to 
your head, the Great Machine won’t give you a second 
chance.
 Coordinate what you do. Use body language. Work as 
a team. Always check which Access cards the other 
Heroes choose.
 The simplest way to raise Discontent is the Incite-
ment Action, which you can take in any Minor 
District. The higher the Stage of Discontent, the 
more Famous Citizens will support Riots. Better yet, 
reaching the last circle of the Discontent track itself 
counts as 1 successful Riot!
 The best place to raise Discontent is on the Central 
Square. The Great Machine knows this, however, so 
be careful.
 Don’t let the Great Machine gain the upper hand. 
Discard its Directives in the Tower of L.A.W. and Grand 
Citadel. Break the Guards. Retrieve your forfeited 
Access cards in the Tower of L.A.W.
 Prepare Districts for Riots. Identify Famous Citizens. 
Move Traitors to Districts where Riots are harder to 
organize. Gather active Citizens in one District and 
organize a Riot there in the same round.
Make the best possible use of all your abilities and 
available Actions. Be unpredictable. Sometimes the 
best strategy isn’t the most logical one. Trick the Great 
Machine into making mistakes, organizing useless 
Raids, and pointlessly driving its Servants around the 
City. Vive La Révolution!

The Revolutionaries immediately win on the 3rd successful 
Riot.
There are 2 possible ways for the Revolutionaries to win:
 Successful Riots in 3 different Districts, 
 Successful Riots in 2 different Districts, and raising 
Discontent to Riot Stage (the red circle in the end of the 
Discontent track).
 The Revolution is victorious! The mechanical Guards 
couldn’t hold back the throngs. One after another, the 
Servants were captured. The crowds broke through the 
black gates of the Citadel.
 The Great Machine’s voice crackles from the speakers, 
calling for calm or making threats or promising happiness 
until someone — you, perhaps? — entered the command 
into the control panel of the immense calculating 
mechanisms that house the mind of the Great Machine. 
The command was <STOP>!
The Great Machine immediately wins when the Master Plan is 
completed — its pointer reaches the highest position on the 
Master Plan track, marked with XII. 
This often happens at the end of the round by the City Event 
card conditions, but may occur earlier due to a detainment.
 Finally, everything is coming together. There are riots on 
the streets, but it does not matter any longer.
The latest regulations have come into force. The City police 
and mechanical Guards, headed by enhanced Servants, are 
rounding up stragglers in mass arrests throughout the City, 
while the first implants are being installed in unwitting 
prisoners. Once released, they will return to their families, 
but now obedient and eager to support the just course.
The Great Dream soon will be completed, and yet the 
Purpose has not been fully achieved. The world below must 
be perfected as well. This City is no more than the first step 
in bringing Mankind to a new level of existence under the 
guidance of the Great Machine.
The Closing Phase is often referred as “end of the round” or 
“round’s end” in the rules and cards.
Go through the following steps in this order:
STEP 1. Failed Raids Raise Discontent
Remove any Raid tokens. For each failed Raid move the Discon-
tent pointer 1 slot clockwise.
STEP 2. City Event: End of the Round
If the City Event card has a “At the end of this round only...” 
condition, complete it now.
STEP 3. City Event: The Master Plan Advancement
Every City Event card has a “The Master Plan advances if…” 
condition. Check if the condition has been satisfied. If so, the 
Master Plan advances by 1.
Sometimes the condition allows for the Great Machine or 
Heroes to do something during this step.
Check the detailed descriptions of City Events cards in the 
Reference Guide.
START THE NEXT ROUND!

Game Designer: German Tikhomirov
Project Lead & Development: Denis Davydov 
Art Directors: Denis Davydov, Nadezhda Penkrat
Box Art: Maya Kurkhuli 
Art: Nikolai Mitrukhin (Progress Board, Heroes & Servants, 
City Events, Famous Citizen back), Anna Laryushina (Districts, 
City Events), Vadim Vangeliy (Heroes), Andrey Lipaev (Heroes), 
Igor Pankin (Famous Citizens, Heroes), Anna Myasnikova 
(District icons) 
Graphic Design: Nikolay Mitrukhin, Maya Kurkhuli, Vladimir Ni-
kulo, Ekaterina Ratnikova, Mikhail Emelyanov, Dmitry Alekseev, 
Vyacheslav Troshko
Hero & Servant Models: Punga Miniatures Studio
Layout Design: Igor Pekhterev, Rafael Piloyan, Ulyana Grebe-
neva, Andrey Shestakov, Alina Kleymenova
Rules and Cards Text: Denis Davydov
Editors: Laura Pickens, Vuk Brankovich
Project overseen by: Maxim Istomin, Evgeniy Maslovskiy
Key Playtesters: Alexander Kazantsev, Andrey Zakharchenko, An-
ton Demyanov, Denis Uafin, Roman Gaffarov, Sergey Grafchikov
Official Playtesters: Azret Bairamkulov, Alexander Vatolin, Alexander 
Grudinin, Alexander Orekhov, Alexandra Ugai, Alla Samogina, Anas-
tasia Kuvshinova, Anastasia Novozhilova, Anatoly Okhapkin, Andrey 
Gagarinov, Anna Pervina, Arseny Konnov, Vadim Trishkin, Valentina 
Grigoryeva, Valentina Zaitseva, Veron Zaitseva, Veron Davytjeva, Veron 
Veritova Dzheitelova, Veron Dzheytelyova, Veron , Vladimir Fadeev, 
Vladislav Smirenin, Gleb Belashov, Daniil Lyulyev, Daria Akamsina, 
Denis Varshavsky, Denis Kokorev, Dmitry Dyakov, Dmitry Kalinin, Dmitry 
Novozhilov, Evgeny Dyatel, Evgeny Fedorov, Egor Prokhorov, Ivan 
Novomlinsky, Ivan R Eutov, Ivan Tezhikov, Irina Anfertyeva, Irina Graf-
chikova, Karina Kuzina, Konstantin Vakhnin, Marina Grudinina, Maria 
Ermolina, Mikhail Akamsin, Mikhail Schenin, Nadezhda Kazantseva, 
Natalia Olympieva, Nikita Tatarnikov, Oleg Ivanov, Oleg Silukov, Pavel 
Yeltsin, Pavel Podkorytov, Roman Ledovsky, Svetlana Milekhina, Sergey 
Dobrolyubov, Sergey Kuznetsov, Sofya Kovaleva, Timofey Kazantsev, 
and others.
The game went through extensive testing in Board Games Develop-
ment Guild (GRaNI) and Moroz Testing Ground club.
Additional thanks to: Yuri Yamshchikov, who introduced us to the this 
great game and later took part in playtesting.
© CrowD Games, 2021. © Denis Davydov, 2021. All rights 
reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without 
specific permission. City of the Great Machine, its logo, CrowD 
Games logo are trademarks of CrowD Games. Actual game 
components may vary from those shown. Any resemblance to 
existing or past organizations, actual persons, either living or 
dead, or actual events is purely coincidental. E-mail: contact@crowdgames.us. 
www.crowdgames.us
Credits 
In the unlikely event that you run out of Trust and Bonds, use 
any substitutes. All other components are supplied in the 
necessary quantity. If something runs out, then it’s unavailable.
For instance, if the Directive cards are all published, discarded, 
or in the Great Machine’s hand, then the Great Machine cannot 
draw any more Directives. If you run out of Riot tokens, then 
the Heroes have won.
Component Limitations 

 Reveal a new City Event card.
 Receive Trust and Bonds. The Great Machine receives 
Bonds according to the current Stage of Discontent. Each 
Citizen provides 1 Trust to the Hero in the District (or one 
of the Heroes if there are more), except for revealed 
Traitors.
Each Hero chooses an Access card for this round.
III. The Great Machine’s Phase
Movement: Move Guards for 1 Bond per District and Servants 
for 2 Bonds per District.
Actions: Each Servant may take 1 Action in their District after 
moving at the cost of 2 Bonds (except for the Central Square).
Standard Servant Actions
Arrest: Take 1 revealed active Citizen and put with other 
arrested Citizens.
Repair: Put 1 broken Guard figure upright. It is no longer 
broken.
Raid: Place a Raid token.
Special Servant Actions
Grand Citadel: Draw 1 Directive.
Tower of L.A.W.: Publish 1 Directive from your hand.
Control Nexus: Reposition a District.
Central Square: Receive 1 Bond for each Citizen in the Central 
Square minus the number of Guards (free).
Heroes take turns in Initiative order (lowest number first). 
On your turn, reveal your Access card and move to the shown 
District. Then you may take 1 Action in that District.
Movement: Pay 1 Trust for each Guard in each District you 
exit. If you don’t have enough Trust — discard your remaining 
Detainment
A Hero is detained if captured by Guards when moving or 
ends their movement in a District with a Raid token. Then 
the Great Machine chooses between 2 options:
Option A. Advance the Master Plan by 1.
Option B. The Hero’s turn is finished, and the Great 
Machine applies 1 of 2 Punitive Measures: ‘No Trust!’ or 
‘No Access!’.
Trust and roll the Escape die to avoid being detained.
Incitement Action
1 Trust per Guard. Increase Discontent by 1. In Minor Districts 
only. 
Standard Hero Actions
Attack a Guard: Pay any amount of Trust and roll the Assault 
die. If the roll is less than or equal to the amount you paid 
and not the shield, the Guard is broken.
Identify Famous Citizens (1 Trust per Guard for each Citizen 
you identify): Secretly peek at a Citizen and put it back so that 
the green indicator in the square is visible.
Move Famous Citizens (1 Trust for each District a Citizen 
exits): Move Citizens from your District to other Districts.
Start a Riot (1 Trust per Guard for each unidentified Citizen): 
Reveal all Citizens in the District. The Riot is a success if there 
are more active Citizens than Guards and Traitors. Success: 
Place a Riot token and break the Guards. Failure: The Master 
Plan advances by 1, and the Great Machine may arrest the 
active Citizens.
Special Hero Actions
1 Trust per Guard. In Major Districts. Most Major Districts 
have 2 Actions to choose from.
Central Square: Increase Discontent by the number of Citizens 
minus the number of Guards. Revealed Traitors are not 
counted.
Control Nexus: 
 Reposition a District. 
 Any one Hero 
receives 3 Trust.
Tower of L.A.W.: 
 Cancel a published Directive. 
 Any one 
Hero retrieves a forfeited Access card.
Grand Citadel: 
 Choose and discard a Directive from the 
Great Machine’s hand. 
 Return 1 arrested Citizen to a 
District of your choice.
STEP 1. For each failed Raid, increase Discontent by 1. 
Remove Raid tokens.
STEP 2. Execute City Event “At the end of this round only...” 
condition (if there is one).
STEP 3. Check for City Event “The Master Plan advances if...” 
condition.
Start the next round.
The Revolutionaries win after 3 successful Riots. Riot Stage 
of the Discontent track counts as 1 successful Riot.
The Great Machine wins when the Master Plan is at XII.
Rules Summary