City of Heroes CCG Technical (Comprehensive) Rules, version 0.545 
written by the Mojo Dojo (Ray Shell, Bill Thomas, Jamie Thomas, Doug Silvey, Frank Kallal, 
Tom O’Brien) 
 
100. General 
 
101.1 Any player who controls a hero that has a health total zero or less when priority is passed 
loses the game. 
 
101.2 A player may only control one hero at any time. A deck may only contain one hero. 
 
102.1 Any time a card contradicts these rules, the card takes precedence over these rules. Any 
time one card says you can do something and another says you can’t, the one that says you can’t 
takes precedence. 
 
103.1 When a game begins, all players search their deck for their hero and a copy of each of that 
hero’s starting powers. All players then simultaneously reveal their heroes and starting powers. 
The heroes are then put into play in Toe-to-Toe tactics mode with the starting powers attached. 
All players shuffle their decks, and present them to an opponent for an opportunity to cut. After 
this, each player draws a starting hand of 5 cards, and a starting player is chosen at random. All 
players agree then agree to the subsequent turn order. Then the starting player is given priority, 
and the game begins. 
 
103.2 If no specific turn order is agreed to, the default turn order is clockwise seating 
arrangement. 
 
104.1 A game between two player is called a single player game. A game with three or more 
players is called a multiplayer game. Before the game begins, players can choose to be allied 
with one another on a team. A team is a group of allied players. A team is allowed to have just 
one player. 
 
104.2 A player’s opponents are all non-allied players. 
 
105.1 A single player game ends when there is only one hero with a health total greater than 
zero. That hero’s controller wins the game. 
 
105.2 A multiplayer game ends when there is only one team with at least one hero with a health 
total greater than zero. The players on that team win the game. 

200. The Cards and Other Housekeeping Items 
 
201.1 A card’s owner is the person who physically owns a card (i.e. the person who brought the 
card to the game). A card’s controller is the person who may use the abilities on that card. A 
card’s controller may change throughout a game. A card’s owner may not. 
 
201.2 An opposing card is a card controlled by a non-allied player. 
 
201.3 A card’s controller is the player who may activate that card’s abilities. Initially, a card is 
controlled by the player who puts that card into play. 
 
202.1 A super is either a hero card or a sidekick card. A super’s ally is another super controlled 
by that super’s controller or supers controlled by other allied players during a multiplayer game. 
A super is not an ally of itself. 
 
202.2 A hero card is the card that represents your main superhero during the game. 
 
202.2a A hero card has the following parts: name, powersets, starting powers, text box, 
archetype, travel power, accuracy, defense, and health. 
 
202.3 A sidekick card is a card that represents a minor superhero that helps out your hero during 
a game. 
 
202.3a A sidekick card has the following parts: name, powersets, text box, archetype, 
travel power, inspiration, accuracy, defense, and health. 
 
202.4 A power card is a card that attaches to supers and gives their controller extra abilities to 
use. 
 
202.4a A power card has the following parts: name, powerset, text box, charging icon, 
and inspiration. 
 
202.5 An enhancement card is a card that attaches to powers and modifies the attaching power’s 
abilities. 
 
 
202.5a An enhancement card has the following parts: name, text box, and inspiration. 
 
202.6 An attachment is either a power or an enhancement. A super’s attachments are all of his 
powers plus the enhancements attached to those powers. 
 
202.7 An edge card is a card that a player may play for an one-time ability. 
 
 
202.7a An edge card has the following parts: name, text box, and inspiration. 
 
202.8 A mission card is a card that remains in play and may have a continuous effect on the 
game. It represents the force and influence of villains during the game. 

 
202.8a A mission card has the following parts: name, text box, inspiration, defense, and 
health. 
 
203.1 A card’s name is the identifier for a card. Other cards may be in play with the same name, 
but each copy retains its own separate values for stats like accuracy, defense, and health. 
 
203.2a A powerset is a group of powers that a super may attach. Most supers have more than 
one powerset. 
 
203.2b A power’s powerset denotes the group of powers that the power belongs to. Effects and 
abilities that refer to a specific powerset power refer to a power card that has that powerset. 
 
203.3 A hero’s starting powers are the ones named above its text box. No substitution of starting 
powers is allowed. 
 
203.3a Starting powers are attached to a hero ignoring the power’s entering play 
requirements. 
 
203.3b If a player does not have one of a hero’s starting powers in his deck, he simply 
does not attach that power. 
 
203.3c If a hero’s starting power is attached to the hero during the game, it is still 
considered one of that hero’s starting powers. 
 
203.4 A card’s text box is the place where most of the writing on the card appears. There are 
three types of text that appears a text box: rules text, flavor text, and reminder text. 
 
203.4a Rules text, written in plain type, is the instructions that affect gameplay. 
 
203.4b Flavor text, written in italic type, are the quotations and stories written on the 
card to inform players about the card’s place in the City of Heroes universe. It does not 
affect gameplay. 
 
203.4c Reminder text, written within parenthesis and in italic type, are visual cues to 
players about certain rules and interpretations. It does not affect gameplay. 
 
203.5 A super’s archetype designates what types of skills the super has. Each super has an 
archetype icon in the upper right corner. 
 
203.5a The archetypes in City of Heroes are: Blaster, Scrapper, Defender, Controller, 
and Tanker. 
 
203.5b These archetypes have no inherent abilities in City of Heroes. However, many 
edge and power cards have rules text and requirements that reference them. 
 

203.6 A super’s travel power represents exactly how that super gets around Paragon City. Each 
super has a travel power as displayed by the icon in the lower right corner. 
 
203.6a The travel powers in City of Heroes are: Flight, Superspeed, Superjump, and 
Teleport. 
 
203.6b These powers have no inherent abilities in City of Heroes. However, many edge 
and power cards have rules text and requirements that reference them. 
 
203.6c Travel powers do not count as powers (power cards). Abilities that affect and/or 
target powers may not target or affect travel powers. 
 
203.7 A value is a number that the game keeps track of. All values are integers. 
 
203.8 A super’s accuracy is the factor that determines if that super’s attacks hit the target. This 
is a value that kept track of throughout the game as it fluctuates. 
 
203.8a There is no minimum or maximum accuracy. A super’s accuracy can be negative. 
Abilities that affect a super’s accuracy will instruct if rounding is necessary. 
 
203.9 A super’s (or mission’s) defense is the factor that determines if that super is hit by attacks 
directed at him. This is a value that kept track of throughout the game as it fluctuates. 
 
203.9a There is no minimum or maximum defense. A super’s defense can be negative. 
Abilities that affect a super’s defense will instruct if rounding is necessary. 
 
203.10 A super’s (or mission’s) health is the factor that determines when the super is defeated. 
This is a value that kept track of throughout the game as it fluctuates. 
 
203.10a A super’s starting health is the number printed in his health circle. This value is 
also kept track of throughout the game. A super’s starting health may change as a result 
of an effect. 
 
203.10b A super’s health may not be higher than his starting health. A super’s health can 
be negative. (Usually, this results in the super being removed from the game and potential 
loss for his controller.) Abilities that affect a super’s health will instruct if rounding is 
necessary. 
 
203.11 A card’s inspiration is the alternate ability a card has represented by an icon in the lower 
left corner. Hero cards do not have an inspiration. 
 
203.11a The inspirations in City of Heroes are: Insight, Luck, Respite, Catch a Breath, 
Break Free, and Enrage. 
 
203.12 A power’s charging icon is the symbol located halfway down the left side of the card. 
This shows what type of power that power is. 

 
203.12a Most powers are click powers. Click powers have a number (either 1, 2, or 3) in 
their charging icon. The number in the icon is the number of clicks you must charge the 
power in order to activate one of its abilities. 
 
203.12b Toggle powers are powers that have the phrase “Off/On” in their charging 
icons. Toggle powers are activated by charging the power two clicks. 
 
203.12c Constant powers have the letter “C” in their charging icons. Constant powers are 
not charged any clicks when they are activated. 
 
204.1 A click refers to a turn of a card to show it has been utilized. Clicks are shown by 90 
degree turns. Powers are the only cards allowed to be clicked or receive clicks. 
 
204.2 A card is ready if it has no clicks. In other words, it is ready if it is not moved any 90 
degree turns. A power’s abilities may not be activated unless it is ready. Before a game begins, 
all players must agree which way their charged cards will be turned. (Usually cards are turned 
clockwise.) A card that is turned 90 degrees is said to have 1 click. A card that is turned 180 
degrees is said to have 2 clicks. A card that is turned 270 degrees is said to have 3 clicks. 
 
204.3a A power may only be in one of four different states: ready, 1 click, 2 clicks, or 3 clicks. 
A power may not be charged any more than 3 clicks. Any effects to charge a power further than 
3 clicks only charge it to 3 clicks. A power may not be recharged past ready. Any effects 
(including Recharge actions) that would recharge a power further than ready only recharge it to 
ready. 
 
204.3b Effects that would charge or recharge a power may not charge them from ready to 3 
clicks directly or vice-versa. In other words: A power at ready may only be charged to 1 click. A 
power at 1 click may only be charged to 2 clicks or recharged to 1 click. A power at 2 clicks may 
only be charged to 3 clicks or recharged to 1 click. A power at 3 clicks may only be recharged to 
2 clicks. 
 
205.1 Cards at any time during the game are in one of many game zones. Each player receives 
their own instances of these zones at the beginning of the game. The game zones are Hand, 
Deck, In Play, Discard Pile, and Removed From the Game. 
 
205.2 The Hand zone is the place where cards are kept but not yet played. Cards that are drawn 
go to their owner’s hand zone. 
 
205.2a Players may count (or ask the count of) the number of cards in any Hand at any 
time. 
 
205.3 The Deck zone contains all of the cards in your deck. Cards that are drawn come from the 
top of the deck. 
 

205.3a Players may count (or ask the count of) the number of cards in any deck zone at 
any time. 
 
205.4 The In Play zone contains all of the cards that have been played but don’t immediately go 
to the discard pile. Most cards go to the In Play zone after being put into play by an action. 
 
205.5 The Discard Pile zone contains cards that are sent there by game instructions or card text. 
 
205.5a The discard pile is a stack, and the order of cards in the discard pile may not be 
voluntarily changed. 
 
205.5b Players may examine the contents and count (or ask to be counted) the number of 
cards in any discard pile at any time. 
 
205.6 The Removed From the Game zone contains cards specifically sent there by game 
instructions or card text. 
 
205.6a Cards in the removed from the game zone may not be targeted by abilities. Cards 
in the removed from the game zone are not shuffled into a player’s deck when that 
player’s discard pile is reshuffled. 
 
205.6b Players may examine the contents of any player’s removed from game zone at 
any time. 
 
206.1 An object is any card, player, or token in the game. All abilities and traits affects one or 
more objects. 
 
206.2 A token is an object that certain abilities or effect create to keep track of certain things or 
to represent a card created by an ability. Most tokens are represented by beads, coins, dice, or 
other things players have handy. 

300. Playing the Game, Taking Actions and Reacts 
 
301.1 A game of City of Heroes is played by players taking actions in turn order. There are no 
phases or other turn structure in the game. 
 
301.2 The player who is taking an action is called the active player. The active player has 
priority. When the active player is finished with their action, priority is passed to the next player. 
Then they become the active player. 
 
301.3 A player may only take an action if they have priority. A player may only play one action 
each time they receive priority. 
 
302.1 When a player has priority, he must choose one of the following actions to take. After 
choosing an action, all of its effects must be completed before priority is passed to the next 
player. This choice of an action and the choices that action requires often are referred to as an 
action being declared or an action being performed. 
 
302.1a Power Up. When a player takes a Power Up action, he chooses a power, 
enhancement, or sidekick card in his hand. This card is revealed to all players. 
 
If the player chooses a power, he chooses a super he controls. The power is then attached 
to the super. If the super does not meet the requirements of the power, the power is 
discarded instead. If a copy of the power is already attached to the super, then the power 
is discarded instead. 
 
If the player chooses an enhancement, he chooses a power in play he controls. The 
enhancement is attached to the power. If the power or super does not meet the 
requirements of the enhancement, the enhancement is discarded instead. If a copy of the 
enhancement is already attached to the power, the enhancement is discarded instead. 
 
If the player chooses a sidekick, he puts the card into play in Toe-to-Toe tactics mode. If 
the player already has a sidekick in play, then the sidekick is discarded instead. 
 
302.1b Act. When a player takes an Act action, he chooses an edge card in his hand, 
innate ability on a super he controls, or a ready Power attached to a super he controls. 
Edge cards (and other cards used for their inspirations) are revealed to all players. He 
then chooses an ability to use (if there is more than one) from the card. React abilities 
may not be chosen in this way. If the card chosen was a card from the player’s hand, then 
the card is discarded. After paying the costs of the ability (which include charging powers 
or revealing an edge card) and choosing targets as necessary, the effects of the action are 
resolved. 
 
302.1c Move. When a player takes a Move action, he chooses one of his supers. That 
super then changes from Toe-to-Toe to Run-‘n’-Gun tactics mode or vice-versa. 
 

302.1d Assemble. When a player takes an Assemble action, he searches his deck for a 
sidekick card. Afterwards, he reveals the card found to all opponents and puts the card in 
his hand. A player may fail or decline to find a sidekick card. Then the player shuffles his 
deck and presents it to an opponent for an opportunity to cut. 
 
302.1e Recharge. When a player takes a Recharge action, he recharges all powers 
attached to supers he controls one click towards ready. A player may choose not to 
recharge a toggle power that is turned on. 
 
302.1f Mission. When a player takes a Mission action, he chooses a mission card in his 
hand. After revealing the card, he puts the mission into play, and all other mission cards 
in play are discarded. If this player already controls a mission in play or a mission card of 
the same name has been completed, the mission card is discarded instead. 
 
302.1g Rest. When a player takes a Rest action, he draws two cards. 
 
302.1h Defeat. When a player takes a Defeat action, he chooses a mission in play. If he 
pays the defeat cost listed on the card, then the mission is completed, and he chooses one 
of his supers in play and places the mission under that super. For the rest of the game, 
that super is considered to have defeated that mission. If he chooses to not pay the cost, 
then this action is canceled. A player may not take this action if there is not a mission in 
play with a defeat cost. 
 
302.1i Power Down. When a player takes a Power Down action, he chooses an active 
toggle power he controls in play. The toggle power is turned off. A player may not take 
this action if he does not control an active toggle power. 
 
302.2 After the action and all subsequent reacts are resolved, priority is passed to the next 
player. 
 
302.3 If an effect says a player may do something as an action, then he may choose to do that 
instead of choosing any of the regular actions listed. If an effect says a player may perform an 
ability that is an action, then he may choose that ability during an Act action. 
 
303.1 A super is always in one of two tactics modes: Toe-to-Toe or Run-‘n’-Gun. A super may 
not be using both modes at the same time. Usually this is represented by a hero being pushed up 
(Toe-to-Toe) or pushed back (Run-‘n’-Gun). 
 
303.2 Any number of supers may be using the same tactics mode at the same time. A player 
may control multiple supers using the same tactics mode at a given time. A tactics mode does not 
give any inherent abilities or benefits. 
 
304.1 Some powers have a phrase in bold print that says “Requires <powerset name> 
Powerset”. This phrase is called a power’s requirement. This means that the super must have the 
specific powerset to satisfy its requirement. 
 

304.2 Some powers have a phrase in bold print that says “Requires X <powerset name> 
Powers.” This is also a power’s requirement. This means that the super must have before 
attaching this power at least X <powerset name> powers attached to satisfy its requirement. 
 
304.3a A toggle power that is at 2 or more clicks is “turned on”. A toggle power has a 
continuous effect while it is turned on. If an effect “turns on” a toggle power, the power is 
charged to 2 clicks. A toggle power that is at 1 or fewer clicks is “turned off”. If an effect “turns 
off” a toggle power, the power is recharged to 1 click. 
 
304.3b A super may not have more than 2 toggle powers turned on. A player may not choose a 
toggle power during an Act action if the super that the toggle power is attached to already has at 
least 2 toggle powers turned on. A player not target a toggle power he controls to rotate (so that 
the power would be active) as part of an ability’s effect if the super that the toggle power is 
attached to already has at least its maximum number of toggle powers turned on. A player not 
choose to click a toggle power (so that the power would be active) for an ability’s cost if the 
super that the toggle power is attached to already has at least its maximum number of toggle 
powers turned on. 
 
304.3c A toggle power that is turned on may only be voluntarily turned off by recharging it 
during a Recharge action or choosing it during a Power Down action. 
 
305.1 There are two types of abilities in City of Heroes: Actions and Reacts. Reacts are abilities 
that can be played outside of the normal action structure. However, each react has a very specific 
time when they can be used. React abilities may not be chosen during an Act action. Using a 
react does not “use up” a player’s action the next time they receive priority. 
 
305.2 The specific time a react may be played is called a react trigger. The react trigger is the 
text between the two colons in a react ability’s text. 
 
For example, the edge, Learning Curve, reads, “React: Play when an opponent puts a 
power into play: Charge the Power 1 click (90 degrees clockwise).” A player may only 
play the edge immediately when the power enters play. The player may not play it before 
the ability putting the power into play resolves. The player may not play it during his next 
action. 
 
305.2a A react trigger is made up of two parts: a timing word and an event. The timing 
words in City of Heroes are: before, when, and after. The event is the actual condition or 
ability that occurs to allow the react to be played. 
 
305.2b A react with a “before” timing word interrupts the event’s resolution directly 
before it is carried out. All choices made for the action or react for which the event is or 
within do not change. A player may interrupt his own actions or reacts with a react with a 
“before” timing word. Triggered effects that trigger before an event occurs resolve before 
any “before” reacts may be played. The current instruction resolves after all “before” 
reacts resolve. 
 

For example, a player chooses an attack power to be activated. That player reacts with 
Critical Strike, an edge that reads, “React: Play before this super activates an attack 
power: The power inflicts +1 damage (of each damage type), +2 damage if this super is 
a scrapper.” The activation of the power is interrupted until the react resolves. Then the 
power becomes activated. 
 
305.2c A react with a “when” timing word interrupts play directly after an after an event 
is carried out. Triggered effects that trigger when an event occurs resolve before any 
“when” reacts may be played. The next instruction in the current effect may not resolve 
until all “when” reacts resolve. 
 
305.2d A react with an “after” timing word interrupts play after any triggered effects that 
trigger after the event occurs resolve. The next instruction in the current effect may not 
resolve until all “after” reacts resolve. A player may play “when” reacts at times when he 
could play “after” reacts. 
 
305.2e The event in a react trigger may be very specific. A player may request another 
player to slow down their current action or react to make sure they can play their own 
react(s) at the correct time. 
 
305.3 Interrupting the normal flow of an ability with a react is called a react opportunity. When 
a react trigger occurs, state that you have a react to play. Choose the card either in play or reveal 
the card from your hand with the react ability you want to play. If there is more than one react 
ability with an appropriate react trigger on the card, choose one of those abilities. If the card 
chosen was a card from the player’s hand (including inspirations), then the card is discarded. Pay 
any costs associated with the react (including charging powers) and choose targets as necessary. 
Resolve the effects of the ability. 
 
305.4 Some reacts may interrupt the flow of a react. These abilities will have react triggers that 
state when they may interrupt. 
 
305.5a Sometimes more than one player wishes to play a react at the same time. If this happens, 
start with the active player and continue in turn order playing reacts until everyone plays all the 
reacts they wish. A player may decline to react at first, and then react after another player 
reacted. 
 
305.5b A react trigger is over when all players decline to react to that trigger. A player may 
decline to react to a given react trigger, but after another player plays a react ability to that 
trigger, he may then react to the trigger after the other player’s react resolves. 
 
305.6 React abilities on supers and powers may be used many times during the course of a 
game, but they may only be used once per occurrence of a react trigger. 
 
For example, a super has the text, “React: After an opposing super moves: This super 
may perform an attack.” That super may only use this react once each time an opposing 

super moves. If the super has another instance of this react, then you may use each 
instance once per move. 
 
306.1a An attack ability is a subset of actions. An attack ability has “Melee Attack,” or “Ranged 
Attack,” as the first sentence of its text. Every attack states what the effects are if the attack is 
successful (which includes damage and status effects). A successful attack is called a hit. An 
unsuccessful attack is called a miss. If you choose an attack ability, the process for declaring an 
attack ability and resolving its effects are slightly different from a regular ability during an Act 
action. 
 
306.1b An area attack is a subset of attack abilities. An area attack ability has “Melee area 
attack,” or “Ranged area attack,” as the first sentence of its text. An area attack is allowed to 
target more than one super. Each area attack ability specifically states which supers can be 
targeted. Area attacks can miss some targets and hit others during the same attack. All targets hit 
with an area attack have the attack’s full effects resolved against each one. 
 
306.1c The super whose powers or innate ability is the source of the attack ability is called the 
attacker or the attacking super. A super being targeted with an attack ability is called the 
defender or defending super. 
 
306.2 Each of the following instructions are broken down because many react triggers could 
occurring during an attack. 
 
 
306.2a The player chooses which power and attack ability he will use. 
 
 
306.2b Pay all costs associated with the ability. (This includes charging the power.) 
 
306.2c Declare the target(s) of the attack. Opposing supers are the only legal targets. 
Depending on what tactics mode you and the target(s) are in, chasing costs may need to 
be paid now. If you can’t discard enough cards to pay the chasing cost for a target, the 
attack misses that target. If all targets’ chasing costs are not paid, then the ability is 
canceled. If the ability is redirected, you may have to pay chasing costs again. (See rule 
411.5.) 
 
Chasing costs are as follows: If it is a Melee attack, the attacking super is in Toe-to-Toe, 
and the target is in Run-‘n’-Gun, then the cost is one card. If however, the attacking super 
is also in Run-‘n’-Gun, then the cost is two cards. If the attack is Ranged, and the 
attacking super and the target are in Run-‘n’-Gun, the cost is one card. All other attacks 
don’t have a chasing cost. 
 
306.2d After chasing costs are paid, players have a final chance to change the attacking 
and defending supers’ stats. (Remember the active player reacts first if many players 
want to react now.) 
 
306.2e Compare the attacking super’s accuracy to each defending super’s defense. If the 
attacker’s accuracy is greater than or equal to the defender’s defense, then the attack hits. 

Resolve the attack’s effects. If the attacker’s accuracy is less than the defender’s defense, 
then the attack misses. The attack’s effects are not resolved. If there is more than one 
target, the attacker chooses the order of checking accuracy among the targets. 
 
306.3 Not all powers have attack abilities. Abilities chosen during an Act action that are not 
attack abilities follow the normal procedure for playing an ability. 
 
307.1 Many abilities have costs. An ability’s cost are the things a player must do in order to play 
that ability. All click powers’ abilities charge the power as part of its cost. 
 
307.2 Any ability that is activated and does not have all of its costs paid is canceled. 
 
307.3 Some abilities have explicit additional costs. These costs are stated directly in their text. 
All of an ability’s costs may be paid in any order. 
 
307.3a An action’s additional cost is denoted between two colons. A react’s additional 
cost is denoted after its react trigger by a comma. 
 
For example, the edge Arcane Ritual reads, “Action: Discard two cards: Rotate all of 
your powers to the ready position.” When a player activates this ability and reveals this 
edge, he must also discard 2 cards as a cost. If the player doesn’t have 2 additional cards 
to discard, then the cost is will not be paid. 

400. Abilities, Effects, and Traits 
 
401.1a An ability on a card is denoted by the phrase “Action:” or “React:” in bold print. A card 
may have multiple abilities. Abilities are separated on a card by a blank line. 
 
401.1b An ability or power is activated when it is chosen during a react opportunity or an Act 
action. An ability is played when all of its costs are paid. 
 
401.1c An instruction is a sentence in the text of an ability. 
 
401.2a An effect is the instructions carried out after an ability resolves. 
 
401.2b A continuous effect is an effect generated by a trait or ability that continuously affects 
the game. 
 
401.3a A trait is a sentence of rules text that creates a continuous effect while the card with the 
trait is in play or in a player’s hand. Most toggle powers have a trait describing what they do 
while they are turned on. Some edge cards have traits that state alternate things that those cards 
can do while in a player’s hand. 
 
401.3b Some traits and abilities only affect play when a certain condition is met. These traits 
and abilities produce triggered effects. The condition that causes the triggered effect to affect 
play is called the effect’s trigger. The effects are only produced once each time the trigger 
happens. 
 
401.3c Triggered effects resolve before any reacts may be played to the same trigger. If more 
than one player controls triggered effects to a trigger, the active player resolves his triggered 
effects first and then each player in turn order resolves theirs. If any other triggered effects 
trigger while these triggered effects are resolving, the new triggered effects interrupt those and 
resolve before them. Remember turn order if multiple triggers chain together. 
 
401.4 Most supers have abilities written in their text boxes. These are referred to as innate 
abilities. These abilities are not powers. Abilities that affect and/or target powers may not target 
or affect these innate abilities. 
 
401.5 If an effect says that a super gains hit points, then that super’s Health is increased by that 
number. A super’s Health may not increase above its printed starting Health. Effects that would 
increase a super’s Health above its starting Health only increase it to its starting Health. If an 
effect says that a super loses hit points, takes damage, or is inflicted damage, reduce that super’s 
Health by that number. 
 
401.6 Abilities and effects that refer to actions may not be applied to reacts. Abilities and effects 
that refer to reacts may not be applied to actions. 
 

For example, a power on a super reads, “React: After this super is targeted by an action: 
Cancel the action.” If a player plays a react edge targeting that super, then it can’t be 
canceled with that power. 
 
401.7a If an effect would have you do something you can’t do, do as much as you can. For 
example, if an effect makes you discard three cards and you only have one, discard that card. 
Ignore the other discards. 
 
401.7b If an effect would affect a deck (by drawing, revealing, or searching for cards, etc.) and 
the deck is emptied during the resolution of that effect, that deck’s controller shuffles the 
contents of his discard pile and presents it to an opponent for an opportunity to cut. Those cards 
then become that player’s new deck. The effect then finishes its resolution. For example, a 
player takes a rest action. That player’s deck has 1 card in it. The player draws the last card in 
his deck. He shuffles his discard pile and presents it to an opponent for a cut. He then draws his 
second card. 
 
401.8a Some effects instruct a super to do something that it can’t do. Its controller does it 
instead. 
 
For example, an attack reads, “Action: Melee attack. Inflict 3 energy damage. The target 
discards a card.” The super does not have a hand, but its controller does. So after the 
attack hits, the targeted super’s Health is reduced by 3 and its controller discards a card. 
 
401.8b Some effects instruct a player to do something that doesn’t apply to players. The effect is 
applied to the source or the super that the source is attached to instead. 
 
401.9 An ability or power is activated when it is chosen during a react opportunity or an Act 
action. Abilities on powers may only be chosen if the power is ready. 
 
401.10 Effects that turn a card are considered to charge that card if it is turned away from ready. 
Effects that turn a card towards ready are considered to recharge that card. Effects that charge a 
card a number of clicks turn that card that number of clicks away from ready. Effects that 
recharge a card a number of clicks turn that card that number of clicks towards ready. 
 
401.11 If an effect says to move a super, then that super’s tactics mode is switched from Toe-to-
Toe to Run-‘n’-Gun or vice-versa. If an ability refers to a super moving, then it refers to when a 
super switches tactics modes. 
 
401.12a Effects that increase values, durations, or damage are called bonuses. Effects that 
decrease values, durations, or damage are called penalties. 
 
401.12b Some effects and traits give bonuses and penalties to values that powers don’t have. 
These bonuses and penalties are applied to the supers that those powers are attached to when a 
player chooses an ability on that power. These bonuses and penalties also apply to supers that 
use an ability from another super during a copy ability of their own. 
 

401.12c If an effect gives a damage bonus for all damage types to an attack or a power, the 
bonus is only applied to damage types the attack or attack abilities on that power have. 
 
401.13 An effect that searches for a card allows a player to look through a deck (usually the 
controller of the effect’s) and find a copy of a card that the effect specifies. An effect that 
retrieves a card allows a player to search their deck and find a card specified by the effect. He 
puts the card in his hand. After an effect searches or retrieves a card, the owner shuffles the deck. 
After the deck is shuffled, it is presented to an opponent for an opportunity to cut. 
 
401.14 If an effect gives a player a choice to do something that would normally have an 
additional cost to do because of a status effect or another ability’s effect, then the player must 
pay that cost before choosing to do that. If an effect gives a player a choice to do something that 
he can’t do because of a status effect or another ability’s effect, then the player may not choose 
to do that. 
 
For example, Night Strike’s signature power, Hit and Run, reads, “Action: Melee attack. 
Inflict 4 lethal damage. Night Strike may move to Toe-to-Toe or Run-n-Gun.” If Night 
Strike is Immobilized when he hits and resolves this attack, however, he may not choose 
to move. 
 
402.1 Instructions on abilities are carried out one sentence at a time when their effects resolve. 
They are carried out in the order listed on the card. 
 
402.2 Reacts may interrupt the resolution of an ability’s effects. After all reacts to a particular 
instruction are resolved, the original effect continues resolving. 
 
403.1 Almost every non-hero card has an inspiration icon in the lower left corner. A card with 
an inspiration may be used for its inspiration ability instead of the card’s printed type and/or 
abilities. 
 
403.2 When a card is used for its inspiration ability, the card is treated just like an edge card that 
has the inspiration’s corresponding text. The inspirations and their abilities are: 
 
403.2a Insight. React: When an attack from your super is targeted: Add +2 to that 
super’s Accuracy for the attack. 
 
403.2b Luck. React: When your super is targeted by an attack: Add +2 to that super’s 
Defense for the attack. 
 
 
403.2c Respite. Action: Heal one of your supers 2 hit points. 
 
 
403.2d Catch a Breath. Action: Draw three cards. 
 
403.2e Break Free. React: Before performing an action: End 1 status effect on one of 
your supers. 
 

403.2f Enrage. React: Before targeting an attack: The attack does +1 damage (of each 
damage type). 
 
404.1 If an ability asks for a target, then the player playing the ability must choose a legal target 
after you pay the costs for it during an Act action or a react opportunity. A player must choose all 
targets that are required. 
 
404.2 If a player chooses an illegal target when targeting an ability, he must choose again. If no 
legal targets exist for the ability, the ability is canceled. 
 
404.3 An area attack ability, however, asks sometimes for more than one target. You may 
choose to target a fewer number of targets for an area attack ability if enough applicable targets 
do not exist. If this is the case, then you must choose all applicable targets. An area attack ability 
is designated as an area attack in the first sentence of an attack ability. 
 
404.4 When an ability resolves, if all of the targets for the ability are illegal, then the ability is 
canceled. If some, but not all of the targets are still legal when the ability resolves, then it 
resolves for all legal targets. 
 
405.1 If a cost or effect says to discard a card, the card is sent to its owner’s discard pile. 
 
405.2 If a cost or effect says to remove a card from the game, the card is sent to its owner’s 
removed from the game zone. 
 
405.3 Sometimes a card that was in play previously may return to play. A card that does this 
comes into play as if it was a brand new card coming into play for the first time. A card does not 
retain any bonuses, penalties, or effects targeting it while it was play previously. 
 
406.1 Some effects cancel other action’s and react’s effects. Usually, a canceling effect comes 
from a react ability or a trait. 
 
406.2 When an action or react is canceled, the ability’s effects don’t happen. None of the 
effect’s instructions are carried out. The rest of the action or react procedure occurs, however. 
(Mainly, this includes the action counting as being resolved.) 
 
406.3 An ability that cancels another ability with multiple targets cancels it for all of its targets. 
 
407.1 Many abilities state that they last for certain period of actions or time. This period is 
called an ability’s or an effect’s duration. 
 
407.2 If an effect states it lasts for a fixed number of actions, this number is in terms of the 
affected player’s actions or the controller of the affected card’s actions. 
 
407.3a An effect that has a duration with a specific number of actions has a value that is kept 
track of called the effect’s clock. An effect’s clock is the number of actions remaining before the 
effect ends. After an action’s effects are completely resolved or that action is canceled, each 

effect that is targeting the passing player or cards he controls has its clock reduced by 1. Effects 
that have clocks of 0 end. 
 
407.3b Most effects last for actions after the ability that creates it resolves. If an action is 
resolved that creates an effect that lasts for future actions for its controller, then the created 
effect’s clock is not reduced by 1 immediately after that action resolves. 
 
For example, the power, Radiant Aim, reads, “Action: For your next 2 actions, your 
attacks have +4 Accuracy, +2 damage (to all damage types).” If you use this action, then 
after the ability resolves, the created effect has a clock of 2. However, since your action 
created this effect, the clock is not reduced by 1 after this action finishes resolving. All 
other clocks from effects targeting you are reduced by 1. 
 
407.4 Effects that have multiple targets have separate clocks for each target. Clocks for different 
targets can be different values. Effects can end for some targets and not yet for others. The effect 
completely ends when all of its clocks are 0. 
 
407.5 Some effects will make players lose their next action(s). When a player who is losing an 
action is passed priority, it is immediately passed to the next player after the player who is losing 
an action. The earliest applied, losing action effect’s clock is reduced by 1. Any losing action 
effects that have clocks of 0 end. 
 
407.6 Non-continuous effects that don’t have any listed duration last until the active player’s 
action is resolved. 
 
407.7 Some effects have a duration of “during your next action”. These effects begin when you 
receive priority and end when your action is resolved or canceled. 
 
408.1 The source of an effect is the card that has the ability or trait that producing the effect. 
 
408.2 If the source of an effect is removed from play, the effect continues for the ability or 
trait’s stated duration. Some abilities or traits, however, are worded to only be active while the 
source is in play. If an effect’s duration is while a condition is in effect or until an event happens, 
the effect ends if the source leaves play. 
 
409.1 Some abilities grant extra actions to players. After such an effect resolves, priority is 
given to that player. Priority is not passed to that player. After the action is completed, priority is 
instead passed back to the player it was taken from. (Sometimes, this may be the same player.) 
 
409.2 If a player is granted an action that has a restriction by an effect, that player may decline 
to take such an action. If a player declines to take the action, the instruction granting the action is 
considered completed. The rest of the effect’s instructions are then completed. 
 
410.1 Many abilities and traits refer to and affect “this super” or “your super”. These phrases 
have different meanings in different situations. 
 

410.1a On an attachment, “this super” means the super that this attachment is attached 
to. 
 
410.1b In a react trigger, “this super” or “your super” means the super that is currently 
satisfying the event. 
 
For example, Carl chooses his one of hero’s attack powers during an Act action. He 
reacts to this by playing Critical Strike. Critical Strike has a react trigger of “Play before 
this super activates an attack power:” In this case, “this super” means the super that has 
the attack power that is being activated. 
 
410.1c A player may only choose abilities referencing “this super” or “your super” if the 
satisfying super is a super that player controls. 
 
410.2 If a trait or ability refers to a super by its name and in reference to something that usually 
players do or decide, then it refers to its controller making that choice or taking that action 
coming from that super. 
 
410.3 If a react trigger refers to a super by name, it should be handled as if it said “this super”. 
 
411.1 Some abilities allow players to change some or all of another ability’s targets before it 
resolves. This called redirecting an ability. 
 
411.2 When a player redirects an ability, he may not choose any targets that were originally 
chosen. When a player redirecting an ability chooses new targets, the original targets are no 
longer targets of the ability. 
 
411.3a A player may not choose any illegal targets when redirecting an action. If a player 
chooses an illegal target, he must choose again. If he cannot choose a legal target, then the 
redirecting ability is canceled and the original ability remains targeted for its original target. 
 
411.3b If a target of an area attack ability is redirected, it must be redirected to a target that 
could have been chosen in the tactics mode that the rest of the targets were chosen. This still 
applies even if there was only one target chosen for the attack. 
 
411.4 Some redirecting abilities specifically state who they may redirect an ability to. If the 
ability states that the redirected ability may be redirected to a target that would normally be 
illegal, then the redirection is still legal. 
 
411.5 If an attack ability is redirected to a super and that super would require a chasing cost to 
target, then the player playing the attack ability must pay the cost immediately. If he does not, 
then the attack misses the new target. If that super is the only target or is the last target’s attack to 
miss, then the action is canceled. 
 

411.6 Some effects redirect attack abilities to a target as if another super was originally targeting 
the attack. When a redirection ability like this resolves, the super that was used in the redirection 
ability becomes the attacker instead. 
 
For example, the power Confuse reads “React: Activate when a super targets with a 
power: Redirect the action to another target as if this super were targeting the power 
(you may redirect it to the original super). You lose your next action.” The super who 
activates Confuse becomes the new attacker after the redirection ability resolves. 
 
412.1 Some abilities put cards directly into play. When an effect like this resolves, the effect’s 
controller must make any choices required as if the card was coming into play from a Power Up 
action’s effect. Any requirements that are normally checked during a Power Up action are 
checked after the card is put into play. 
 
For example, Debby plays the edge City of Power which reads, “Action: Put any number 
of powers into play from your hand, in any order.” When this resolves, before Debby puts 
a power into play, she must choose a super to attach the power to. If the super does not 
meet the requirements of the power, the power is discarded instead. Debby must do this 
for each power she wishes to play during the effect’s resolution. 
 
412.2 Some abilities allow cards to be put into play face down (like Secret Power from the base 
set). Cards that are in play face down do not count as being in play, and they may not be targeted 
by abilities or traits. Abilities that put cards into play face down say how those cards may be 
turned face up. 
 
412.3 When a card that was in play face down is turned face up, and the object that the card is 
attached to does not meet the card’s requirements, it is discarded. This is an enforced effect. 
 
413.1 Some abilities (like Psychadelic’s innate ability, from the base set) allow a power to be 
copied to another super. A power that is copied is treated as if the power is attached the hero that 
it’s being copied to. A super may have powers copied to it that are not in its powersets. All 
attachments and applicable effects targeting the power also apply to the copy. Each ability that 
copies a power states the duration that the power is copied (if it is longer than for the action or 
react that copies it). 
 
413.2 Costs paid for actions and reacts played from copied powers charge the actual powers 
being copied. Effects that apply to the super that the power is copied to also apply to that super’s 
copied powers. 
 
413.3 Durations of effects that are based on a copied power’s state end when the actual power is 
in a state that would end the effect’s duration. Toggle powers that are turned on while copied 
remain in effect for the super that the power was copied to until the toggle is turned off. 
 
414.1 Some heroes (like the Paragon heroes from the base set) have traits that allow their 
controller to search for powers from particular powersets to begin the game. Powers put into play 

in this way are considered that hero’s starting powers, just like if those powers’ names were 
written in the hero’s starting powers box. 
 
415.1 Some abilities on attachments state they may only be played, activated, or used a certain 
number of times per game. This number of times is in reference to the number of times per super 
the ability can be activated. Other copies (actual cards with the same name) of the power retain 
their own usage restrictions. 
 
For example, the power, Revive, has an ability says it may only be played once per game. 
If another super copies Revive and uses it, then that super may not copy and use its 
ability again this game. (If there are more actual copies of Revive in play, then the super 
may copy and use Revive’s ability once for each copy.) However, the super(s) that Revive 
is attached to may still use it once during the game. 

500. Keywords and Other Rules 
 
501.1 A keyword is a word that can be found in rules text that is shorthand for a more commonly 
used passage of text. A keyword found in an ability or trait’s text is treated exactly as if the full 
rules text was written on the card. 
 
502.1 Status effects are keyworded traits that supers gain usually from the result of an attack that 
hit them. There are three status effects in City of Heroes: Stun, Knockdown, and Immobilize. 
 
502.2 A super that has Immobilize has, “This super may not be chosen for a Move action and 
chasing costs during its attacks may not be paid.” However, all abilities on the super or powers 
attached to the super may be used as normal. 
 
502.3 A super that has Knockdown has, “You must discard two cards as an additional cost to 
choose this super for the Move action or choose one of this super’s powers during an Act 
action.” 
 
502.4a A super that has Stun has, “You may not choose this super for the Move action or one of 
its powers during an Act action.” 
 
502.4b A super that receives Stun also has his toggles turned off. 
 
502.5 Usually when a super receives a status effect, the ability states a duration for that status 
effect. Sometimes status effects are written as <status effect> X, where X is the status effect’s 
duration in actions. 
 
502.6 Additional instances of a status effect do not combine their durations. 
 
For example, Statesman currently has Stun 2. If Positron hits with an attack that does 
Stun 3, then Statesman will have Stun 2 and Stun 3, not Stun 5. After Statesman’s 
controller takes an action, Statesman will have Stun 1 and Stun 2. 
 
503.1 Most damage has a damage type. This is usually the word before damage in the ability. 
 
503.2 Resistance X to <damage type> is a keyworded trait that some supers have. A super with 
resistance has, “Whenever this super takes <damagetype> damage, reduce that damage by X. 
Damage from any damage type may not be reduced below 1 in this way.” Supers with resistance 
to all damage types do not reduce damage that does not have a damage type. 
 
503.3 Multiple instances of resistance to a damage type are cumulative. 
 
For example, Somber Warrior has Resistance 2 to fire damage from an active toggle 
power. If his controller activates another power that gives him Resistance 1 to fire 
damage, then Somber Warrior would have Resistance 3 to fire damage. 
 

503.4a Effects that provide additional damage of a specific type to an attack or power that the 
attack or any of the power’s attack abilities did not have provide that additional type of damage. 
 
For example, the edge Out of the Sun provides additional smashing damage to a melee 
attack. If it is played on a melee attack that only does fire damage, then the attack does 
fire and smashing damage. 
 
503.4b If a bonus that adds damage of all types to an attack is applied to an attack that has 
gained or gains an additional damage type before the attack hits, then the bonus is also applied to 
the additional damage type(s). If a bonus that adds one type of damage is applied to an attack, the 
type that the bonus applies to may be chosen when the attack hits. 
 
503.4c If a penalty that subtracts damage of all types to an attack is applied to attack has gained 
or gains an additional damage type before the attack hits, then the penalty is also applied to the 
additional damage type(s). If a penalty that subtracts one type of damage is applied to an attack, 
the type that the penalty applies to may be chosen when the attack hits. 
 
503.4d Some traits provide a damage bonus when an attack inflicts damage. Remember that the 
bonus is a triggered effect of that trait. It is resolved before any reacts may react to damage being 
inflicted. 
 
503.4e An ability or trait may refer to “a resistance” or “all resistances”. This refers to the sum 
total of all resistances that a super has to each damage type. 
 
504.1 Missions may sometimes have special rules text that are actually traits while they are in 
play. These traits may actually grant abilities that can be chosen during an Act action or a react 
opportunity by a player. 
 
504.1a A mission’s threat is the trait that is active only while it is in play and not 
completed. 
 
504.1b A mission’s reward is the ability that is active only while it is in play and 
completed. 
 
504.1c A mission’s defeat cost is the cost a player pays during a defeat action to 
complete the mission. 
 
504.2a A mission can also be completed by attacking it, just like an opposing super. Mission 
cards have defense and health stats. Mission cards are always considered to be in Toe-to-Toe 
tactics mode. 
 
504.2b When a mission is the target of an attack, all opponents may play inspirations as if the 
mission were a super they control. A mission may not be targeted in an attack with any other 
super(s) and vice-versa. 
 

504.3 Missions when completed are placed under the super whose abilities’ effects completed 
them. This is only done to represent that the super completed the mission. The card itself is not 
attached to that super. 
 
505.1 Sometimes certain tasks have to be completed before another react opportunity is taken or 
priority is passed to the next player. These tasks are called enforced effects. No player may take 
a react opportunity before an enforced effect is completed. Once all enforced effects are 
completed and no further enforced effects are needed, react opportunities may be taken and 
priority may be passed as normal. The following are enforced effects: 
 
505.1a If a super’s health is at 0 or below, the super with all of its attachments are 
removed from the game. If the super is a player’s hero, that player loses the game. 
 
505.1b After a mission is damaged from an ability on a super’s powers or a super’s 
innate ability and the mission’s health is at 0 or below, the mission is completed. The 
mission is placed under the super to represent that super completing the mission. 
 
505.1c After a non-power, non-innate ability damages a mission and the mission’s health 
is a 0 or below, the mission is completed. The player who played the action chooses one 
of his supers. That super is considered as the super defeating the mission, and the mission 
is placed under the super. 
 
505.1d If any deck zone ever contains zero cards, then that deck’s controller shuffles his 
discard pile and gives an opponent an opportunity to cut. Those cards then become that’s 
player’s deck and are placed in the deck zone. 
 
505.1e If there are ever more than 10 cards in a hand zone, the player who it belongs to 
must choose and discard cards, one at a time, until there are 10 cards. 
 
505.1f If there is ever an attachment in play without a card for it to be attached to, the 
attachment is discarded. 
 
505.1g After an action’s effects are completely resolved or an action is canceled, each 
effect that is targeting the passing player or cards he controls has its clock reduced by 1. 
Any effects that have clocks of 0 end. 
 
505.1h After priority passes to the next player as the result of a skipped or lost action, the 
earliest applied, losing action effect targeting the player has its clock reduced by 1. Any 
effects that have clocks of 0 end. 
 
505.1i If a card’s state changes and is now in a state that by an effect’s instructions 
would end that effect, then the effect ends. If a card leaves play and an effect’s duration is 
based on that card having a specific card state, then the effect ends. 
 
505.1j When a card that was in play face down is turned face up, and the object that the 
card is attached to does not meet the card’s requirements, it is discarded. 

 
506.1 A game’s format is the rules surrounding deck construction. Each player should agree to 
the format before starting a game. 
 
506.2 Constructed format is a format where each player constructs a deck of any legal cards and 
uses no more than 3 copies of an individual card. After a player reveals his hero and starting 
powers, the deck that is shuffled and presented to an opponent must contain at least forty (40) 
cards. There is no deck maximum. 
 
506.3 Limited format is a format where each player is given unopened packs of cards to make a 
deck. Each player is given the same amount and type of packs to make a deck. A player may 
only start with a hero in those packs. A player may only play 3 copies of an individual card even 
if he has more copies. After a player reveals his hero and starting powers, the deck that is 
shuffled and presented to an opponent must contain at least twenty-five (25) cards. There is no 
deck maximum. 
 
507.1 In a multiplayer game, when a player loses the game, he removes from the game his deck, 
his hero with all its attachments, any sidekicks with their attachments, and his discard pile. Any 
other cards that are in play (for example, completed and uncompleted missions) remain in play 
until the game is over. 
 
507.2 Any effects that were generated from or had durations based on a player’s cards end when 
that player loses the game. 
 
507.3 Any card in play after a player loses the game that would be sent to that player’s discard 
pile is removed from the game instead. 

Glossary 
 
ability 
The things a player can do during a game. The abilities in City of Heroes are: Actions and 
Reacts. 
 
accuracy 
A value that determines if a super’s attacks hit. 
 
action 
1. Unit of time for effects’ durations. 
2. The act of making a choice during an Act action. 
3. One of the choices a player can make when they have priority. The actions in City of Heroes 
are: Power Up, Act, Move, Assemble, Recharge, Mission, Rest, Defeat, and Power Down. 
4. An ability that has “Action:” as part of its rules text. 
 
activated 
An ability or power is activated when it is chosen during a react opportunity or an Act action. 
 
active player 
The player who has priority and is currently taking an action. 
 
active toggle power 
A toggle power that is turned on. 
 
allied player 
In reference to a certain player, an allied player is a player on that player’s team. 
 
ally 
In reference to a super, another super that player controls or any super an allied player controls. 
 
archetype 
The style of character a particular super is. The archetypes in City of Heroes are: Blaster, 
Scrapper, Defender, Controller, and Tanker. 
 
area attack ability, area attack 
An area attack ability is an ability that produces an attack that can target more than one super. 
 
attach 
The act of putting a power on a super or an enhancement on a power. Other cards can be attached 
through card effects. 
 
attachment 
A power or an enhancement card. 
 
attack ability, attack 

An ability that produces an attack. The types of attacks in City of Heroes are: Melee and Ranged. 
 
attacker 
The super whose attack ability was activated. 
 
bonus 
An effect that increases a value, duration, or damage. 
 
cancel 
To prevent carrying out an ability’s instructions. 
 
card 
The objects that make up a player’s deck. 
 
card state 
The number of clicks a card has. 
 
card type 
A card’s type determines its function in the game. The card types in City of Heroes are: Hero, 
Sidekick, Power, Enhancement, Edge, and Mission. 
 
charge 
The act of turning a card clockwise 90 degrees. 
 
charging icon 
The symbol on a power card that shows what type of power it is. 
 
chasing 
The act of paying a chasing cost. 
 
chasing cost 
A cost spent (usually discarded cards) to target a super in a particular tactics mode. 
 
choice 
A decision required by the game for an action, react opportunity, or ability. 
 
click 
The turn of a card 90 degrees to show it has been used. Multiple clicks refer to that number of 90 
degree turns. 
 
click power 
A power that requires charging to activate. A power that has a number in its charging icon. 
 
clock 
A value that is the number of actions remaining before an effect ends. 
 

completed 
A mission is completed if its health is reduced to 0 or its defeat cost is paid during a Defeat 
action. See defeated. 
 
control(s) 
The link between a player and the cards they can use. By default, a card is controlled by the 
player who put the card into play. 
 
controller 
The player who may activate a card’s abilities. 
 
constant power 
A power that doesn’t require charging to activate. A power that has a “C” in its charging icon. 
 
continuous effect 
An effect from a trait or ability that affects play continuously. 
 
copy 
1. A power that may be used as if another hero could legally attach it. 
2. The act of copying a power. 
 
cost 
Something that has to be done to pay for an ability. 
 
cut 
To take a number of cards from the top of a player’s deck after it is shuffled and and put them on 
the bottom. 
 
damage 
1. Potential hit points to be taken away from a super’s health. 
2. The act of taking hit points away from a super’s health. 
 
damage type 
A trait that damage sometimes has. The damage types in City of Heroes are: cold, electrical, 
energy, fire, lethal, negative energy, psychic, smashing, and toxic. 
 
deck 
A collection of cards that a player brings to the game. 
 
defeat 
The act of completing a mission by paying its defeat cost or using an ability targeting it and 
reducing its health to zero or less. 
 
defeat cost 
The cost a player can pay during a defeat action to defeat the mission and attach it to one of his 
supers. 

 
defeated 
A mission that is completed is considered defeated. 
 
defender 
A super being targeted by an attack ability. 
 
defense 
A value that determines if attacks targeting a particular super hit. 
 
draw 
To take a card from a player’s deck and put it in that player’s hand. 
 
duration 
The length of time an effect lasts. Some effects last for a number of turns, until a certain 
condition is met, or permanently. 
 
edge 
A card type that gives players one-time abilities when used from their hand. 
 
effect 
An ability’s or trait’s instructions being carried out. 
 
effect trigger 
The event that causes a triggered event to be produced and resolved. 
 
enforced effect 
An effect that the game interrupts the normal flow of an action or react opportunity until the 
effect is completed. 
 
enhancement 
An attachment for a super’s powers to modify their abilities. 
 
event 
The game occurrence that triggers an effect or react trigger. 
 
flavor text 
The text, written in italic print, that tells the inner stories behind characters in City of Heroes. 
 
format 
The rules for deck construction in a given game. 
 
game 
1. A game of City of Heroes. 
2. The framework of rules, objects, and values that players play in. 
 

hand 
The cards in a player’s hand zone. 
 
health 
The value that represents how close a super is to dying. 
 
hero 
A card that represents each player’s main superhero. 
 
hit 
An attack hits after all reacts resolve when the attacker’s accuracy is equal to or greater than the 
defender’s defense. 
 
hit point 
The basic unit of measurement for health. 
 
illegal target 
A target that could not be chosen for an ability or trait based on its targeting restrictions. 
 
inflict 
The verb that conveys damage being done to a super. 
 
innate ability 
An ability and/or trait printed on a super. 
 
inspiration 
The alternative ability that most cards have in addition to their printed abilities. The inspirations 
in City of Heroes are: Insight, Luck, Respite, Catch A Breath, Break Free, and Enrage. 
 
instruction 
A sentence of rules text in an ability. 
 
integer 
The set of whole numbers, negative whole numbers, and zero. This is also written as: 
{…, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, …} 
 
keyword 
A specific word that is shorthand for a more commonly used phrase or passage of rules text. 
 
lose 
To lose the game. A player loses the game as an enforced effect when his hero’s health is zero or 
less. 
 
miss 
An attack misses after all reacts resolve when the attacker’s accuracy is less than the defender’s 
defense. 

 
mission 
A card type that remains in play and has different effects simply while in play or while attached 
to a super. Missions represent the forces and influence of villains on the game. 
 
move 
The act of switching tactics modes. 
 
multiplayer game 
A game between three or more players. 
 
name 
A card’s unique identifier. 
 
next player 
The player that is after a given player according to the turn order. 
 
object 
A player, card, or token in the game. 
 
owner 
The person who physically owns a card. 
 
passing priority 
The method a player normally receives priority. After a player finishes their action, priority is 
passed to the next player. 
 
pay 
The act of satisfying a cost. 
 
penalty 
An effect that decreases a value, duration, or damage. 
 
perform (an action) 
Choosing an action and making all appropriate decisions when a player has priority. 
 
play 
Choosing an ability during an action or a react opportunity. 
 
player 
A person involved with the game. 
 
power 
An attachment that attaches to a super and gives its controller new abilities. 
 
powerset 

1. The set of powers that an individual power belongs. 
2. A set of powers that a super can attach. 
 
priority 
The theoretical resource a player needs to play an action. 
 
react 
1. An ability that a player may play that interrupts the normal flow of the game when its react 
trigger occurs. 
2. The act of playing a react ability. 
3. An ability that has “React:” as part of its rules text. 
 
react opportunity 
The stoppage of normal play or instruction execution to play a react ability. 
 
react trigger 
The phrase between the two colons on a react ability that tells a player when he can play the 
ability. 
 
ready 
A card is ready if is has no clicks. 
 
recharge 
The act of turning a card counterclockwise 90 degrees. 
 
redirect 
The act of choosing a different target for an ability. 
 
reminder text 
The text, written within parenthesis and in italic print, which reminds players about rules that 
directly affect a card. 
 
requirement 
The conditions a power or super must have in order for a card to come into play legally. 
 
resistance 
1. A super with resistance X to a damage type, where X is a number, has, “Whenever this super 
takes <damage type> damage, reduce that damage by X. Damage from any damage type may not 
be reduced below 1 in this way.” 
2. The total of all resistances a super has to a particular damage type. 
 
resolve 
To finish carrying out an ability’s instructions. 
 
restriction 
A clause in an ability that restricts what the ability can do or target or effects it produces. 

 
retrieve 
To search for a card in a player’s deck and put that card in the player’s hand. 
 
reveal 
To show a card from a zone to a player or players. 
 
reward 
The trait on a mission that is in effect while the card is in play and attached to a super. 
 
rotate 
See turn. 
 
rule 
A numbered section of this document. 
 
rules text 
The text, written in regular print, inside a text box that directly affect play. 
 
search 
To look for a card in a player’s deck. 
 
shuffle 
Randomizing the order of cards in a player’s deck or cards put into a player’s deck. 
 
signature power 
A power that is a particular hero’s unique ability. A signature power requires a certain named 
hero. 
 
single player game 
A game between two players. 
 
source 
The card that has the ability or trait that producing an effect. 
 
starting health 
A value for each super that starts as the printed health number for that super. This value may 
change as the game progresses. 
 
starting player 
The player given priority before the game begins. 
 
starting power 
The names of powers that a hero starts play with. 
 
status effect 

A keyworded trait that a super usually gains from an attack’s effects. The status effects in City of 
Heroes are: Stun, Knockdown, and Immobilize. 
 
super 
A hero or sidekick card. 
 
tactics mode 
The style of fighting a super is using. The tactics modes in City of Heroes are: Toe-to-Toe and 
Run-‘n’-Gun. 
 
target 
1. An object that is chosen to be affected by an ability. 
2. The act of choosing an object to be affected by an ability. 
 
team 
A group of allied players. 
 
text box 
The space on a card that has most of the card’s writing. 
 
threat 
The trait on a mission that is in effect while the card is in play and unattached to a super. 
 
“this super” 
1. The super that an attachment is attached to. 
2. The super that is currently satisfying an event. 
 
timing word 
The word in a react or effect trigger that gives the relation to the event when the ability can be 
played or effect resolve. 
 
toggle 
A toggle power. A power with an “Off/On” symbol in its charging icon. 
 
token 
An object that certain abilities or effect create to keep track of certain things or to represent a 
card created by an ability. 
 
trait 
A sentence of rules text on a card in play or in a player’s hand that produces a continuous effect. 
 
travel power 
The particular method that a super uses to get around. The travel powers in City of Heroes are: 
Flight, Super Speed, Super Jump, and Teleport. 
 
triggered effect 

An effect produced when a trait or ability’s trigger happens. 
 
turn 
The act of changing the orientation of a card. 
 
turn order 
The rotation of players receiving priority. 
 
“turned off” 
1. A toggle power is turned off if it is not active. A toggle power is not active if it has 1 or fewer 
clicks. 
2. The act of turning off a toggle power. A toggle power is turned off by recharging the power to 
1 click. 
 
“turned on” 
1. A toggle power is turned on if it is active. A toggle power is active if it has 2 or more clicks. 
2. The act of turning on a toggle power. A toggle power is turned on by charging the power 2 
clicks. 
 
value 
An integer variable that the game keeps track of. 
 
win 
The situation in which a player is the only player not to lose the game. 
 
zone 
A place where cards can exist during a game. All cards are in one zone at a time. The zones in 
City of Heroes are: Hand, Deck, In Play, Discard Pile, and Removed From the Game.