Standard Rules
Advanced Rules

Boardgame Designed and Created by Glenn Drover
(Design Based on PC game designs by Sid Meier, Bruce Shelly, Brian Reynolds, and Jeff Briggs)
Gameboard Artwork by Paul Niemeyer
Graphic Design by James Provenzale and Jacoby O’Connor
This game is dedicated to Glenn and Kathleen Drover
A GAME OF EMPIRE BUILDING THROUGH THE AGES
A GAME OF EMPIRE BUILDING THROUGH THE AGES
©2002 Eagle Games, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2002 Infogrames Interactive, Inc. All Rights Reserved. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
Sid Meier's Civilization®, Civ®, and Civilization® are U.S. registered trademarks.

OVERVIEW
INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
Welcome, oh Great One!
You are about to lead your people through millennia and into the future. Diplomacy, war, economic
growth, and technological development are the tools at your disposal. Maintain a balance of the
four and see your subjects prosper. Fail, and your civilization will be covered by the dust of the ages.
Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame is based on the hit PC games. The Boardgame will allow 
you to play with up to five other players around your dining room table. Sid Meier’s Civilization: 
The Boardgame is also a much shorter game – it can be finished in one sitting. But like the classic
that it is based on, The Boardgame presents you with many options, and you must choose wisely.
The successful ruler will balance expansion, economic growth, trade, research, diplomacy, and 
military force. 
Let’s begin. Fame and prosperity await!
OVERVIEW
Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame takes place in four “eras.” The earliest is the ancient era, fol-
lowed by the medieval era, the gunpowder/industrial era, and finally, the modern era. Each era has
its own unique military forces, city improvements, technologies, and wonders of the world, and each
is superior to those from a previous age.
THE RULES
Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame has two different sets of rules and 
therefore two different ways to play:
The Standard Rules: the standard rules make for a fast-paced and exciting game of Civilization
growth and interaction.
The Advanced Rules: the advanced rules include more detail without sacrificing playability. By
adding more detail, the advanced rules have more in common with the PC game.
The advanced rules build on the standard rules. When there are questions, the rules you are using
supercede any conflicting information from the other set. For example, if you are using the
advanced rules and production is described differently than in the standard rules, ignore the 
standard rules.
CONTENTS
Each copy of Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame includes:
One 36” by 46” inch gameboard
Six plastic runners, in six different colors
Eight tan-colored plastic runners
One sheet of die-cut exploration and coin markers (gold)
78 technology and wonder cards
15 ancient technologies
10 medieval technologies
10 gunpowder/industrial technologies
18 modern technologies
7 ancient wonders of the world
5 medieval wonders of the world
5 gunpowder/industrial wonders of the world
8 modern wonders of the world
2 blank cards that can be used as replacements
61 square city cards 
64 square city improvement cards
3 square fertile cards
One technology flow chart
One Reference Card
Four dice (two red and two white)
This rules manual
The Gameboard:
The gameboard is divided into spaces for purposes of movement and production. Spaces on land,
like Orinoco or Gobi, are called land regions. Blue spaces are oceans and are called sea zones.
The Game Pieces:
There are four types of game pieces in the game:
Settlements (in four sizes)
Military units (16 types)
Settlers
Flag bearers
Settlements:
Settlements are the foundation of every civilization. People live in settlements, and as cultures
grow, their settlements grow too. There are four different settlement sizes:
Village (size one settlements)
Town (size two settlements)
City (size three settlements)
Metropolis (size four settlements)
Important! Once a settlement is built, you cannot move it.
Civ. Notes: Throughout the manual you will find short comments called
“Civ. Notes.” These comments offer insight into the design of the game or
compare Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame to the classic PC games.

Military Units:
The military units are either armies or vehicles. There are specific armies and vehicles for each era.
Armies are divided into infantry, cavalry, or artillery. Vehicles are also divided between fleets and 
aircraft. The table below shows each unit categorized by its type and era.
During your turn, you can move your military pieces on the gameboard.
Armies can move to any adjacent land region. (1 Movement Point)
Aircraft can move up to three adjacent land regions and/ or sea zones. (3 MP’s)
Galleys can move to any adjacent sea zone. (1 MP)
Caravels and frigates can move up to two adjacent sea zones. (2 MP’s)
Battleships can move up to three adjacent sea zones. (3 MP’s)
Only military units can fight battles. See the Fighting Battles section of the rules you are using to
learn how battles are fought.
Note: Fleets cannot directly attack armies, nor can armies attack fleets.
Settlers:
Settlers are similar to armies. The biggest difference is they cannot fight battles.
However, settlers are very important. Settlers are the only playing piece you can use to
explore land regions and build settlements.
When your settlers end their movement in land regions with face down exploration markers, you
can pick up the exploration markers and look at them. The exploration markers show if the region
contains resources, special terrain, a minor civilization, or other special events. These are explained
in more detail below, in the Exploration Markers section of the rules.
You can build settlements during the production phase of a game turn. To do so, replace the settler
with a village and pay the appropriate cost to the bank. There is more information on the
Production section of the standard and advanced rules. There can only be a single settlement on
each land region!
Settlers can move up to two adjacent land regions. (2 MP)
Flag bearers:
All the military units are the same color (in order to maximize the mix of units). 
Flag bearers are used to show ownership of military units. Whenever you move your
military units into a region (or sea area) that does not contain one of your cities, place
a flag bearer piece with them to show that they belong to you. Other than to serve as
markers, flag bearers have no other purpose in the game.
Military Units Table
Vehicles 
Tank
Howitzer
Fighter

The Game Markers:
There are two different types of markers in Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame:
Exploration markers:
Coins:
Exploration markers:
The exploration markers are things your settlers can discover in a land region. There are four types
of exploration markers:
Resources
Events
Terrain
No Encounter
Resources:
There are eight different types of resources you can find on exploration markers: wine, horses,
iron, gems, spices, oil, coal, and rare metals. When you find a resource, place the exploration
marker back in the land region. It remains face down until a settlement is built in that land
region. When a settlement is built, flip the exploration marker face-up. The marker remains in
the land region, and the owner of the settlement gets a city card with a matching resource
symbol on it. Notice that in the advanced rules, city cards with resource symbols on them pro-
duce more gold during the production phase.
The symbols for the resources are:
Wine: Horses: Iron: 
Gems: Spices: Oil: 
Coal: Rare Metals: 
Events:
There are four different types of events you can find on exploration markers: free technology, 
treasure, minor civilization and plague. When you find an event, announce which type it is and
remove the marker from the gameboard. The event effects are:
Free Technology: Your wise men have made a great discovery! You get a 
technology from the current era immediately and for free. If you are playing 
the advanced rules, you may only choose from those technologies which 
have prerequisites that are owned
Treasure: Your settler has discovered a rich but limited vein of gold! You get 10
gold immediately and for free.
Minor Civilization: Your settler has discovered a minor civilization. When you flip
up this marker, all players, including you, roll two dice and subtract the number 
of settlements that they own. Whoever has the highest total gains control of the
minor civilization. They immediately place a new village and a new army unit in
the land region (They may choose any unit that is currently available).
Plague: Plagues are outbreaks of disease, and their effects grow stronger as the
game advances. During the ancient era plagues only affect the region where the
marker is found. During the medieval era, plagues affect the land region where the
marker is found and every adjacent land region. In the gunpowder/industrial era,
plagues affect the land region where the marker is found and every adjacent land
regions two spaces out. In the modern era plagues affect the land region where
the marker is found and every adjacent land regions three spaces out.
The plague effects are very strong. All military units and settlers in land regions
affected by the plague are eliminated. Reduce all settlements in land regions
affected by the plague by one size, unless they are a village (size one 
settlement). Villages may not be eliminated by plagues. The effects of 
plagues do not enter or cross sea zones.

It is the gunpowder/industrial era. Angela has a town in Tanganika, a village in
Eritrea, two dragoons in Kalahari, and a settler with a face down exploration
marker in Funa. Brad has one musketeer and one cannon in Atlantia, and a city
on Nigeria. Chris has a settler, a cannon, and a town on Euphrates.
Angela decides to look at the exploration marker in Funa, and discovers a
plague. Angela announces this to all players. Angela’s settler in Funa and two
dragoons in Kalahari are eliminated, as are Brad’s musketeer and cannon in
Atlantia. Chris’s settler and cannon in Euphrates are three spaces away from
Funa and are thus spared.
Angela’s town in Tanganika is reduced to a village, but her village in Eritrea
survives because villages cannot be reduced/ eliminated by a plague. Brad’s city
in Nigeria is also reduced one size, to a town. As with Chris’s settler and cannon
in Euphrates, her town is three spaces out and is spared.
Terrain:
Different terrain can make it easier or more difficult to settle a land region. There are four
types of terrain: desert, mountains, jungle/forest, and fertile / productive. Announce the type of
terrain, and place the marker back in the land region, face up. The terrain effects are:
Desert: This area won’t support any settlements. Thus, you can’t 
place villages in this land region.
Mountains: This area won’t support settlements larger than a village. 
You can never expand a village built here.
Jungle/Forest: This area won’t support settlements larger than a town. Once you
have expanded a village to a town, you can’t grow that settlement any further.
Fertile / Productive:
Settlements built in these fertile regions produce more than average. When deter-
mining production for a settlement built here:
• Treat your settlement as if they were one size larger when using 
the standard rules.
• Use the value in parentheses (next to the cog symbol on the city card) 
when using the advanced rules. Place a Productive card next to the city 
card to designate the extra productivity.
No Encounter:
Exploration markers with a dot on them hold no discoveries. You can choose to
remove the marker or not.
Note: The number of “No Encounter” markers in a particular game may be
reduced to ensure more resources and encounters. Before beginning the game,
remove two “No Encounter” markers from the pool for each player in the game. 
Plagues, deserts, and minor civilizations have no effect and are ignored if they are revealed in one
of a player’s starting regions. Simply remove them.
Coins:
As in the PC games, the currency of the game is “gold”, (even if some of the coins are copper or 
silver). The coins are used to track each Civilization’s production. When you calculate your 
civilization’s production for the turn, you get that much gold. During the purchase phase of the
game turn, you can use your coins to buy military units, settlers, settlements, city improvements,
and new technologies.

The Game Cards:
There are four different types of game cards in Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame:
Technology cards
Wonder cards
City cards
Improvement cards
Note: Not all game cards are used in all the sets of rules!
Technology cards:
The technology cards represent different civilization advancements. There are 53 different 
technology cards in the game.
Wonder cards:
The wonder cards represent some of the different achievements your civilization can accomplish.
There are 25 different wonder cards in the game.
City cards:
City cards have two uses in the game. In the standard rules, city cards are used to represent
resources. Only the city cards with resources are used.
In the advanced rules, city cards represent each settlement in your civilization. Each time you
found a new settlement, you will get a city card to represent that settlement. Place this card in
front of you with the “size one” edge on top.
Civ. Note: The PC game tracks three different kinds of production: food (population growth), shields (manufacturing output),
and commerce (money). Commerce itself tracks yet another three things: research, taxes, and entertainment. Tracking all these
factors is very difficult to do in a boardgame. Therefore, we have streamlined this process. In Sid Meier’s Civilization: The
Boardgame, your civilization simply produces “gold.” You allocate this gold to population expansion (growing your settle-
ments), manufacturing (building settlers, military units, city improvements, etc.), and research (technologies) as you see fit.
Construction
AQUEDUCT 
COLOSSEUM
Allows players to upgrade their cities to size 2.
Allows players to build the Aqueduct improvement
Allows players to build the Colosseum improvement
OWNER: The Great Wall Wonder
PREQ: Iron Working AND Mathematics
ERA
BONUS TO OWNER
PREREQUISITES TO
DISCOVERY
NAME OF TECHNOLOGY
COST TO DISCOVER
UNITS and/ or 
CITY IMPROVEMENTS
ALLOWED 
Cure for Cancer/ Longevity
Two extra Happiness Points
ERA
NAME OF WONDER
BENEFIT TO OWNER
RESOURCE
HAPPY/ UNHAPPY
SIZE OF SETTLEMENT
NORMAL PRODUCTION 
Size One: 4 (8
Size Four: 10 (20
Size Three: 8 (16
Size Two: 6 (12
(PRODUCTION WITH 
PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT
ASSIGNED TO SETTLEMENT)

Improvement cards:
The improvement cards describe the different buildings your settlements can have. Improvement
cards are of two types: happiness improvements or productivity improvements. These cards are
only used in the advanced rules.
The Reference Cards:
There are two reference cards in Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame:
One data card
One technology flow chart card
Reference card:
The Reference Card lists useful information, like the cost of military units, their movement rates, etc.
Players can use this card for easy reference while playing.
Technology flow chart card:
The technology flow chart card describes the “technology tree,” or which technologies are required
before you can make more advanced discoveries. The technology flow chart card is only used with
the advanced rules.
Things To Note:
If you run out of settlements, settlers, or flag bearers you can use those from an 
unused color. The number of pieces in your color is not a limiting factor.
Eliminated game pieces are available to be built again.
You can exchange your gold for larger or smaller denominations freely 
and at any time during the game.
Negotiations and table talk are allowed and encouraged. However,
you are not required to keep your word.
Movement is possible from the left edge to the right edge of the board and vice versa. 
In other words, the map “wraps around” along the left and right edges.
Temple
Hospital
Television Station
Cathedral
Library 
Factory 
Highway System
Bank 
MODERN
ANCIENT
happiness improvements
productivity improvements
MEDIEVAL
GUNPOWDER/
INDUSTRIAL
MODERN
ANCIENT
MEDIEVAL
GUNPOWDER/
INDUSTRIAL

THE STANDARD RULES
THE STANDARD RULES
GAME OVERVIEW
The object of Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame is to have the most impressive civilization
when the game ends. During your game turn you get the opportunity to move your game pieces,
fight battles, trade, discover new technologies, and build new military units, settlers and settlements.
By skillfully blending economic development, military might, diplomacy, and profitable trading you
can create the greatest civilization and win the game!
Note: The skillful use of military force may help you grow your civilization or defend its borders.
However, endless warfare may well sap your civilization’s strength and cause it to fall behind more
peaceful and prosperous cultures. War is only one tool at your disposal. Do not rely on it too much.
Also, constant world-wide warfare will significantly slow the game. Technological 
advancement will be reduced as gold will be channeled into military units. 
The Eras:
The game is divided into four eras:
Gunpowder/Industrial
The game begins in the ancient era. An era ends when:
Any player purchases the third technology of the current era, or
Any player purchases the last remaining technology from the current era.
The next era begins at the start of the following turn. Wonders of the world, technologies, and mili-
tary units are only available during their appropriate era. Thus, you can only purchase knights,
galleons, and medieval technologies during the medieval era. When an era ends, all of its wonders,
technologies, and military units that are not owned become unavailable.
Technologies:
In the standard rules, all the technology cards from the same era are “generic” and are treated the
same. Ignore the description of each technology on the cards. Despite being “generic”, technologies
are central to success in the standard game. Technologies help your military units fight better,
increase your civilization’s productivity, and score victory points at the end of the game.
For every two technologies that you own (regardless of their era), your military units may add
+1 to their battle die roll
During the production phase, as part of calculating your gold production, you will multiply
the total number of technologies that you own by the total unique resources that you own.
Each technology that you own when the game ends is worth 2 victory points.
Wonders:
In the standard rules, all the wonders of the world cards from the same era are treated the same.
Ignore the description of each wonder of the world on the cards.
When you reach one of the milestones for the current era (listed below), announce it to all the
other players and place one of the era’s wonders of the world cards in front of you. Reaching the
milestone alone is not enough – you must also make the announcement. If another player makes
the announcement before you do, that player will get the wonder of the world card, even if you
reached the milestone before the other player!
Only one player may own each wonder (12 total wonders; 3 in each era). If two or more players
claim a wonder simultaneously, they each roll two dice. The player with the highest total gets the
wonder.
Remember! Once an era has ended, any wonders that have not been claimed are no 
longer available.
The milestones are:
SET-UP
Before starting a game, mix all the exploration markers and place one, face down, on each named
land region on the board. Without looking at them, take the remaining markers and put them back
in the game box.
Give each player coins totaling twenty (20) gold, two villages, two swordsmen, and two settlers in
their chosen color.
Now, each player rolls two dice. Whoever rolled highest will go first. In case of a tie, roll again.
The first player selects a starting region. The other players then each select a starting region going 
in order clockwise around the board. They each place a village, a swordsman, and a settler in the
selected region. When all players have selected one starting region, the last player to 
choose selects a second region and places his or her second village, swordsman, 
and settler. Placement now continues counterclockwise, until every player 
has two starting regions.
6 Villages
2 Medieval Technologies
2 Gunpowder
Technologies
10 Metropolises
2 Ancient Technologies
2 Medieval Fleets
2 Gunpowder Fleets
2 Modern technologies
8 Ancient Armies
60 gold
80 gold
100 gold

Angela is the first player. She places a village, a swordsman, and a settler in
Mississippi. Brad is the second player. He places his village, swordsman, and set-
tler in Steppe. Chris is the third and last player. She places her village, swords-
man, and settler in Gran Chaco. Now the order is reversed. Chris places her
remaining village, swordsman, and settler in Orinoco. Brad goes next and selects
Yunnan as his location for his remaining pieces. Angela goes last and chooses
Mexica as her final starting location.
Now, everyone flips the exploration markers in their starting locations. These take effect immediate-
ly. However, if you find minor civilizations, deserts, and/or plagues, place the exploration markers
back in the game box. These events are ignored and have no effect when discovered during set-up.
Once everybody has placed their starting game pieces on the board, roll two dice again. Whoever
rolled highest will go first. In case of a tie, roll again. Play will continue clockwise around the table.
Now, you are ready to begin the game!
GAME TURN SEQUENCE
A game turn is divided into turn phases. During each phase all players, beginning with the starting
player and continuing clockwise, may perform the actions for that phase. When all phases have
been completed, the turn ends. The player to the left of this turn’s starting player becomes the new
starting player, and the turn sequence is repeated.
Angela rolled an eleven after set-up and is the starting player. Brad is seated to
her left, and Chris is seated to Brad’s left and Angela’s right.
After the first game turn is complete, Brad becomes the starting player. When
the second turn ends, Chris becomes the starting player. When the third turn is
over, Angela becomes the starting player again.
Note: Since the starting player will change during the course of game, you might want to give the
current starting player some type of marker to remind everyone who he or she is. A crown or a
scepter are best, but in a pinch, a goblet will suffice.
Turn Phases:
There are four turn phases in a game turn:
1. Movement and battles phase
2. Trade phase
3. Production phase
4. Purchase phase
Each phase is described in detail below.
Movement And Battles Phase:
Military Units:
The military units are either armies or vehicles. There are specific armies and vehicles for 
each era. Armies are divided into infantry, cavalry, or artillery. Vehicles are also divided between
fleets and aircraft. The table below shows each unit categorized by its type and era.
Notice that the ancient and medieval eras share the same figure for their artillery unit. Ancient
artillery (catapults) are the only units that upgrade when the next era begins.
Military Units Table
Vehicles 
Tank
Howitzer
Fighter

Movement:
During the movement and battles phase you may move none, some, or all of your military units
and settlers. They may move as any spaces as they have movement points (MP’s). You may
move units into land regions and sea zones with pieces belonging to other players. Units from
more than one player may occupy a single region without fighting. Battles occur if any player
with military units in a space that you enter wants to fight a battle. Once you start fighting
battles, you cannot move any more playing pieces! Make sure that you finish all movement
before resolving any battles Likewise, once you look under an exploration marker, you can-
not move your settler to another land region!
To move armies and/or settlers across sea zones, you need to have a fleet in a sea zone 
adjacent to them. Your armies and settlers have to spend one move to enter or exit the fleet.
Thus, armies will always spend at least one turn in a fleet, but it is possible for settlers to move
onto and off of a fleet in the same turn.
Angela started her movement and battles phase with two settlers and a catapult
in the Mekong land region. She moves a caravel one sea zone to the space
between Mekong and Tanami. Now she places her catapult and settlers in the
sea zone with the caravel. Angela can:
• Move her settlers to Tanami and look at the exploration marker there, if any.
• Move one of her settlers to Tanami, look at the exploration marker there, if
any, and move her other settler to Tasmania.
• Move her settler to Tanami, look at the exploration marker there, if any, 
and move her caravel and catapult to the sea zone adjacent to Java
and Tasmania.
• Move her caravel, settler, and catapult to the sea zone adjacent to Java and
Tasmania and then move her settler to Tasmania and look at the exploration
marker there, if any.
• Move her caravel, settler, and catapult to another sea zone and keep all her
pieces in the new sea zone.
Notice that if Angela’s settler had started the phase in Himalaya, she could have
moved the settler first to Mekong and then to the sea zone with the caravel.
She would not have been able to move the settler into another land region after
entering the sea zone because she already had moved her settler twice in the
movement and battles phase.
Important! Each fleet unit can carry up to three armies and/or settlers! Place the fleet and the
game pieces it is carrying close to each other to identify which fleets are carrying which game
pieces.
Note: The world map wraps around on the left and right edges. Therefore, movement is 
possible from the left edge sea zones to the right edge sea zones and vice versa.
Air Movement:
You can move fighters up to three adjacent spaces per turn. Fighters must end their 
movement in a land region with your military units and/or settlement, or a sea zone with one
of your battleships in it.
Battles:
When you have completed all your movement, you fight any declared battles. There are two
ways battles can occur in the game:
1. When you are finished moving your pieces, you can declare a battle in any 
space you have military units present.
2. When you move any game pieces into a space where one or more players already 
have military units, any one of the other players can declare a battle. Place your 
game pieces on their side to remind you a battle was declared.
When another player declares a battle against you, the game piece(s) that entered the space
where the battle was declared have to stop moving. However, you can move any game pieces
that haven’t moved yet, until you have no more legal moves to make. All battles are fought
after you are done moving.
Once a battle is declared, any other players with military units in the space may join either side.
However, for the duration of the battle these players give control of their military units to the
original attacker or defender. If more than one of the players in a space wants to start a battle
against the player who moved military units into the space, the player with the most military
units will take control of the battle. If two or more players have the same number of military
units, roll two dice. The player with the highest roll will be the attacker.
How to resolve battles:
Once the attackers and defenders have been selected:
1. Remove all the military units from the space where the battle is occurring.
2. Place a screen between you and your opponent (the reference card works well for this).
3. You and your opponent each choose one military unit to fight and 
place it in front of the others.
4. Remove the screen.
5. Roll the appropriate number of dice for the chosen military units, 
and add any modifiers to the roll.
6. The player with the highest result wins the fight. In case of a tie, both units are eliminated.
Once a battle starts, neither side can retreat! Repeat steps two through six (one round of 
battle) until one of you has no units remaining. If you are fighting fleets in a sea zone, any
military units and/or settlers carried in a fleet that is eliminated are also eliminated. Non-fleet
units in a sea zone cannot fight against enemy fleets (They are helpless cargo). 
Note: Air units are the exception. They may fight with and support battleships (see below).
Note: Cities can only be captured when the owner has no units in that region. 
1111

Dice and modifiers:
In each battle, the chosen piece from each player rolls the appropriate # of dice and adds the
appropriate modifiers before comparing the total.
Dice:
Military units from the ancient era roll one die each.
Military units from the medieval era roll two dice each.
Military units from the gunpowder/industrial era roll three dice each.
Military units from the modern era roll four dice each.
Modifiers:
There are 3 possible types of modifiers that can be added to the battle die roll if they apply.
Battlefield Superiority:
Each type of army (infantry, Cavalry, & Artillery) is superior to one other type and inferior to
one other type. If the type that you have is chosen is superior to the type that your opponent
has chosen, you may add the # of the current era (1 to 4) to your die roll.
When cavalry fights infantry, add the # of the current era to the cavalry’s die roll.
When infantry fights artillery, add the # of the current era to the infantry’s die roll.
When artillery fights cavalry, add the # of the current era to the artillery’s die roll.
(The current era: Ancient era=1, Medieval era=2, Gunpowder era=3, and Modern era=4)
Note: You can remember which armies are superior if you think CIA: C(avalry) is superior to:
I(nfantry) is superior to: A(rtillery) is superior to cavalry.
Scientific Superiority:
Add one to the die roll for every two technologies that you own (round down).
Aircraft:
Unlike armies and fleets, aircraft do not get to fight against other military units. Instead, you
can select an aircraft and a military unit to fight together. The aircraft adds one die to the 
military unit’s roll. All other modifiers still apply. If you lose the fight, both the army and the
aircraft are eliminated!
Aircraft can move 3 spaces/ turn. You can move your air units into land regions or sea zones.
You must, however, end their movement in a region that contains one of your cities, or
in a region that contains one of your armies, or in a sea zone that contains one of your 
battleships.
Aircraft cannot be stopped and attacked by other player’s units when moving. This means that
they may fly through enemy held spaces without being attacked.
Aircraft units are eliminated if attacked by enemy armies or fleets when they have no friendly
armies or fleets in the space with them. 
Brad moved two tanks (cavalry), a howitzer (artillery), and a fighter (aircraft)
into Orinoco. Chris has one musketman (infantry), one tank, one cannon
(artillery), three settlers, and a metropolis there. Brad decides to fight Chris.
After placing the their armies behind the screen, Brad selects one of his tanks
and his fighter to fight. Chris selects his cannon. Now they remove the screen.
Brad rolls five dice: four dice for the tank, a modern era army, plus one extra die
for his fighter. The result is twenty.
Chris rolls three dice since the cannon is a gunpowder/industrial era unit, and
adds three to the result because her gunpowder/industrial era artillery is fight-
ing cavalry (the tank is modern cavalry). Chris rolls sixteen. When she adds her
bonus of four (the current era is the modern era) to the die roll the final result
equals twenty. Since the rolls are tied, all three military units are eliminated.
Brad now selects his other tank. Chris selects her tank. When they remove the
screen, both roll four dice, with no bonuses. Brad gets a seventeen. Chris gets a
twelve. Chris’s tank is eliminated.
Brad can now select either his tank or his howitzer. Since he knows Chris’s only
military unit left is a musketman, he chooses his tank again to get the plus four
to his die roll. After removing the screen, Brad rolls four dice and gets a thir-
teen. After adding the bonus, Brad’s total is seventeen. Chris’s only hope is to
roll an eighteen on three dice, but she gets a twelve. Brad has won this battle!
Since Brad now controls Orinoco, he eliminates Chris’s three settlers and
exchanges her metropolis for one of his own.
Chris moves two battleships into a sea zone where Brad has a frigate and a car-
avel. Brad also has a machinegunner and a howitzer right next to the caravel, to
denote the caravel is transporting them.
Chris selects one her battleships. Brad selects his frigate. After removing the
screen, Chris rolls four dice and gets a seven! Brad rolls three dice and gets a six.
Brad’s frigate is eliminated.
Now Brad has to select his caravel to fight one of Chris’s battleships. Brad rolls
two dice, and gets a twelve! Chris rolls four dice and gets a sixteen. Brad’s car-
avel and its machinegunner and howitzer cargo are eliminated.

Trade Phase:
During the trade phase you can negotiate deals with any of the other players (regardless of where
they are on the map). The most common trade is one resource card for another. This trade lasts
only until the end of the production phase. The main reason for engaging in resource trade is to
gain production advantages. Players that control three, four, or five of the same resource cards get
extra gold during the production phase. Also, this is your opportunity to trade resources that may be
rolled in the critical resource roll of production phase. 
Permanent trades for other items are also allowed: Settlers, military units, cities, gold, technologies,
and even wonders may be traded. The trades don’t have to be equal, and any promises made are
not binding. However, any agreement that can be completed in this phase (trading gold and/or
cards, for example), must be completed. Resource cards are returned to their owners at the end of
the production phase.
Production Phase:
During the production phase you calculate how much gold your civilization produces. There are
three components to your civilization’s income. These are:
1. City production and critical resource
2. Technology and unique resources
3. Monopolies
All three components are added together to get your civilization’s total gold production for the turn
City production and critical resource:
Each city produces as much gold as its size. Thus, a village produces one gold, a town produces
two gold, a city produces three gold, and a metropolis produces four gold. Remember to treat a
settlement on a land region with a fertile exploration marker as if it was a size larger! Thus, a
metropolis in a fertile land region would produce five gold.
Add the production of every city together. The starting player then rolls two dice, and consults
the critical resource table below. The critical resource for that turn is the one that is indexed b
the number rolled and the current era. If you have a city card showing the resource rolled on
the table, you double the total amount of gold your cities produced this game turn!
It is the medieval era. Angela is the starting player. She has three villages, each
in a land region with a wine exploration marker.
Angela adds her city production: each village is worth one gold, so she has a
total of three gold.
Brad has one village in a land region with a wine exploration marker, one town
in a land region with a spices exploration marker, and one town in a land region
with a fertile exploration marker.
Brad adds his city production: his village is worth one gold, his town in the land
region with a spices exploration marker is worth two gold, and his town in a
land region with a fertile exploration marker is worth one more than normal, 
so it is worth three gold. Brad’s total city production is six gold.
Chris has two towns, one in a land region with no resource and another in a
land region with an oil exploration marker.
Chris adds her city production: each town is worth two gold, so she has a total
of four gold.
Now Angela rolls two dice, gets an eight, and looks at the critical resource table,
above. The result is spices. Brad is the only player with a city card with the
spices resource. Brad doubles his city production to twelve gold.
Technology and unique resources:
Multiply the total number of unique resource types (not individual resource cards) by the total
number of technology cards you own.
Continuing the example above, Angela has three city cards with the wine
resource printed on them. Since Angela has three identical resources (wine), she
only has one resource type. She also has two technologies (one from the ancient
era and one from the medieval era). She multiplies one (her unique resource) by
two (her technologies), and the result is how much extra gold she receives: two
extra gold.
Brad has one wine resource city card and one spices resource city card (two
unique resources). Brad also has four technologies (two ancient era and two
medieval era technologies). He multiplies two unique resources by four tech-
nologies, and the result is how much extra gold he receives: eight extra gold.
Chris has one oil resource city card and four technologies: (three from the
ancient era and one from the medieval era). She multiplies one resource type 
by four technologies and the result is how much extra gold she receives: 
four extra gold.
Adding the extra gold to their previous totals, Angela now has 
five gold, Brad has twenty gold, and Chris has eight gold.
Critical Resource Table
Die Roll Result
2-3
4-5
6-8
9-10
11-12
Rare Metals
1313

Monopolies:
If you control three or more of the same resource type, you will get a monopoly bunus. 
If you have…
Three of a kind, you get an extra twenty (20) gold.
Four of a kind, you get an extra forty (40) gold.
Five of a kind, you get an extra eighty (80) gold.
In the example above, only Angela has multiple resources of the same kind. 
Her three wine resource city cards means she gets an extra twenty 
gold to her total. Thus, Angela now has twenty five gold, while 
Brad and Chris still have twenty and eight gold, respectively.
Minimum Gold Production:
Your civilization can never receive less than ten gold in this phase. If your gold production is nine or
less, you still collect ten gold at the end of the production phase.
In the example above, Chris’ total production amounted to eight gold. Instead,
she collects a full ten gold from the bank. Thus, the final production totals are:
• Angela:
twenty five gold
• Brad:
twenty gold
• Chris:
ten gold
After adding up the total of the three types of production, the players collect their gold from the
bank and add it to whatever gold they had saved from previous game turns.
Purchase Phase:
During the purchase phase you use the gold you have accumulated to purchase new military 
units, settlers, settlements, technologies, etc. The table below indicates how much each item 
costs in each era.
Usually, you simply total the cost of the things you want to purchase, pay the amount to the bank,
and take your new purchases. However, some items have certain special rules:
Purchasing military units:
You can only purchase military units of the current era. Thus, during the medieval era you can
only purchase men-at-arms, knights, catapults, and caravels.
Purchasing new settlements:
To build a new settlement, you must have a settler in the land region where you want to place
your new village. Exchange the settler for a village, and pay the purchase price to the bank.
Note: The settler is removed from the board when it is used to create a new village.
Upgrading settlements:
You can upgrade any number of settlements on each purchase phase, but you can only upgrade
each settlement by one size per turn. The cost to upgrade a settlement does not increase with
each new era, but instead increases depending on the size of the new settlement.
Purchasing technologies:
You can only purchase technologies from the current era. Your first technology costs ten gold,
and each subsequent technology you purchase costs an additional ten gold. Thus, your first
technology costs ten gold, your second technology costs twenty gold, your third technology
costs thirty gold, etc.
When an era ends (see The Eras, above), you can purchase the new era’s technologies on the 
purchase phase of the next game turn. The technologies from the old era may be purchased
until the end of the turn.
When every player has finished their purchase phase, remember to return any resources traded 
during the trade phase to their owners.
Purchase Table
Settlers
Villages
Upgrade to the next
larger settlement size
5 (from village to town)
10 (from town to city)
20 (from city to metropolis)
Technologies
10 + 10 per technology that you already own

Ending And Winning The Game:
Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame ends at the end of the game turn when any player owns
three modern era technologies. When all players have finished their purchase phase, count how
many victory points you have scored. The player with the most victory points wins the game. 
Victory Points:
You get victory points for:
1. The number and size of your settlements
2. How many technologies you own, and 
3. How many wonders of the world you own
1) Settlement size:
You get victory points for each settlement you control:
Each village is worth one victory point.
Each town is worth two victory points.
Each city is worth three victory points.
Each metropolis is worth four victory points.
2) Technologies:
You get two victory points for each technology you own.
3) Wonders of the world:
You get three victory points for each wonder of the world you control.
Brad has two modern era technologies. During his purchase phase, he buys a
third modern era technology, ending the game. Once Chris takes her purchase
phase, all players total their victory points.
Angela has two villages, one town, two cities, and one metropolis. She also has
eight technologies, and one wonder of the world. Her victory points are:
• Two victory points for her two villages
• Two victory points for her town
• Six victory points for her two cities
• Four victory points for her metropolis
• Sixteen victory points for her eight technologies
• Three victory points for her wonder of the world
Her total score is thirty-three (33) victory points.
Brad has no villages, no towns, four cities, and three metropolises. He also has
twelve technologies, and four wonders of the world. His victory points are:
• Twelve victory points for his four cities
• Twelve victory points for his three metropolises
• Twenty-four victory points for his twelve technologies
• Twelve victory points for his four wonders of the world
His total score is sixty (60) victory points.
Chris upgraded all her settlements and purchased technologies to increase 
her score. She has no villages, two towns, three cities, and three metropolises.
She also has eleven technologies, and five wonders of the world. Her victory
points are:
• Four victory points for her towns
• Nine victory points for her three cities
• Twelve victory points for her three metropolises
• Twenty-two victory points for her eleven technologies
• Fifteen victory points for her five wonders of the world
Her total score is sixty two (62) victory points.
Chris has the most victory points, and has won the game!
THIS IS THE END OF THE STANDARD RULES.
1515
Civ. Note: Similar to the PC game, the winner is essentially the player with
the most impressive civilization. In other words, the biggest, happiest, most
cultured, most developed, and most advanced civilization in the world.

THE ADVANCED RULES
THE ADVANCED RULES
GAME OVERVIEW
The object of Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame is to create the largest, most advanced, and
most powerful civilization. During your game turn you will get the opportunity to move your game
pieces, fight battles, trade, discover new technologies, and build new military units, settlers and set-
tlements. In the advanced rules, you will have more control over the future of your civilization, but
you will still need to carefully balance all the needs of your people and relationships with other 
civilizations to be able to win.
The Eras:
The game is divided into four eras:
Gunpowder/Industrial
The game begins in the ancient era. An era ends at the end of the turn in which a player purchases
the first technology from the next era. The new era begins at the beginning of the next turn. 
When a new era begins, several things occur:
1. All un-owned technologies from the old era are 1⁄2 the usual cost to purchase.
2. All wonders from the old era no longer have any effect. (But keep them, because they are
worth victory points at the end of the game.)
3. The city improvements from the old era no longer have any effect. Return the cards to the
common pool so that they may be re-used (Each card has one improvement from each era on
it so that they may be used in each era.)
4. The prices for new units and improvements increase.
City Cards:
Each one of your settlements is represented by a city card. When you build a new village in a land
region with a resource marker on it, you get a city card with that resource listed on it. If you build a
village in a land region without any resources, your city card will not have any resource listed on it.
Each city card is square and has four edges. Each edge corresponds to the size of the settlement.
When you build a village, you get a new city card. Place the card in front of you with the “size one”
edge facing upward. When you upgrade the settlement to size two (town), turn the card so that the
“size two” edge is facing upward.
Each city card also has two sides. One side designates that the settlement is “happy” (yellow smiley
face), and the other designates that the settlement is “unhappy” (red frowney face). You can 
make settlements happy by assigning certain happiness city improvements (such as Temples and
Legislatures) or wonders of the world (such as The Sistine Chapel and Universal Suffrage).
Happiness:
All settlements start out “unhappy” and must be made happy (except settlements that have the
wine or gems resource – They are always and automatically happy.) You can make your unhappy
settlements happy by:
1. Choosing one unhappy settlement to be your one “free” happy settlement: Each player-civi-
lization gets one free happy settlement in addition to any wine or gems settlements.
2. Assigning happiness city improvements or happiness wonders to various unhappy settle-
ments: Simply place the improvement or wonder card next to the appropriate city card and
flip the city card from unhappy to happy.
• These assignments are not permanent and may be changed at any time.
• If an improvement or wonder has two happy faces on it, it can be used to
make two settlements happy. 
Note: Technology cards may not be used to make settlements happy. The happy faces on the 
technology cards indicate that a new happiness city improvement may be built once that technolo-
gy has been purchased.
Angela has three settlements. One of them is a village on a land region 
with a wine resource marker. Another settlement is a town on a land region
with an oil resource marker. Her third settlement is a village in a land region
with no resource marker.
Angela has a village that produces wine, so that settlement is automatically
happy. She chooses her oil-producing town as her one “free” happy settlement
and flips it to its happy side. This leaves her village without a resource on its
unhappy side. Therefore, she has two happy settlements and one unhappy
settlement. If she builds a temple, she would assign it to her last village and
make it happy as well.
Productivity:
The values on each edge of the city cards represent how much gold your city can produce when it
reaches that size. The red numbers are used most of the time. The black numbers, in parentheses
with the small cog symbol, are used when the settlement has a productivity city improvement or
wonder of the world assigned to it.
(Productivity improvement and Wonders have cog symbols on them)
Assigning productivity city improvements, productive terrain cards, and productivity wonders to
various settlements: Simply place the improvement, productive or wonder card next to the appro-
priate city card. That settlement is now productive, and the number in parentheses may be used
when calculating gold production for that city.
These assignments are not permanent and may be changed at any time 
(except productive terrain – see below).
Civ Note: In the PC games, each city can build each new improvement independently. However 
to streamline gameplay in the Board Game, when a new city improvement is built, it is purchased
only once for the entire civilization. And while this represents new buildings throughout the 
civilization, the benefit is assigned to only one settlement.

If an improvement or wonder has two cogs on it, it can be used to make two 
settlements productive.
Productive terrain cards must be assigned to the city card that corresponds to the appropriate
settlement on the board. (The one that has the productive marker in the same region.)
City Improvements:
City improvements can affect either the happiness or productivity of a settlement. The happiness
improvements have a happy face printed on them, and the productivity improvements have a cog
printed on them. Like city cards, each edge of a city improvement card has the name of an 
improvement. When you purchase a city improvement, take a card with the appropriate city
improvement name printed on it and place it in front of you, with the city improvement that you
have just purchased at the top of the card. The other three edges have no effect. Only the improve-
ment on the top edge (from the current era) is in play.
You can never have duplicate city improvements. Each player can purchase only one of each city
improvement. You could have a castle and a cathedral, but not two castles or two cathedrals. Also,
each settlement can have only one of each type assigned to it – one happiness improvement, and
one productivity improvement.
To assign a city improvement to a settlement, simply put the appropriate city improvement card
adjacent to the settlement that you want it assigned to. A happiness improvement will allow you to
flip the city card to which it is assigned to the happy side. A productivity improvement will allow
you to use the higher production value on the city card to which it has been assigned (the black
number in parentheses). City improvements with two happy faces or two cogs can influence two
separate settlements.
City improvements cannot be traded. If one of your settlements is captured, you do not lose any
improvements you had assigned to the settlement. It is just reassigned to another city card.
Technologies:
In the advanced rules, technologies have various costs and various benefits. The cost to purchase
each technology is listed on the right edge of the technology card inside the bronze coin. Once you
have purchased a technology, you get the technology card and any special benefit listed next to
“Owner”. You are also eligible to collect “fees” from other players who use your technology. 
Fees:
Every military unit and city improvement in the game has an associated technology. When any 
player purchases the associated technology, every player can purchase the military unit or city
improvement associated with that technology (but not before). However, if you are not the owner
of the technology and you build military units and/or city improvements associated with it, a 
portion of the gold you pay for them goes to the owner. This portion (or “fee”) is 5 gold in the
Ancient and Medieval eras, and 10 gold in the Gunpowder/ Industrial and Modern eras. This fee is
part ofthe usual cost, not an additional cost. Note: The owner of the technology does not pay this
fee, but pays the full cost of the unit or improvement to the bank. 
Prerequisites:
Most technologies have prerequisites and can’t be purchased until the necessary technologies that
come before them have been purchased. These prerequisites are listed on each technology card
after “PREQ:”. The flow of technologies and prerequisites may also be seen on the technology flow
chart (“tech tree”).
Owner Bonus:
Most technologies give the player who buys them a bonus, usually extra military units or a wonder
of the world. This bonus is listed at the bottom of the technology card after the word “OWNER:”.
The bonus is awarded immediately after the technology is purchased.
Seminal Discoveries:
There are four technologies labeled “seminal discovery.”
These technologies, in addition to any
benefit they might confer, are worth four victory points at the end of the game. 
Wonders Of The World:
There are 25 wonders of the world in Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Boardgame. You receive wonders
of the world when you purchase certain technologies during the purchase phase of the game turn.
If you purchase a technology that rewards you with a wonder of the world, take the appropriate
wonder of the world card and place it in front of you.
Any effects of that wonder of the world take effect immediately. If you buy a technology that gives
you a wonder of the world, and that wonder in turn awards you new game pieces, you receive those
new pieces as soon as you get the wonder of the world card. If instead the technology awards you a
game advantage, you can use that advantage until the era on the wonder card is over.
Angela purchases FEUDALISM. She receives the SUN TSU’S ART OF WAR wonder
of the world card at the same time. Since the Art of War awards the owner two
free medieval infantry units, she immediately receives them just as if she had
bought them during her purchase phase.
Brad purchases CONSTRUCTION. He receives the GREAT WALL wonder of the
world card at the same time. Since the Great Wall awards the owner with +2
when defending settlements, he will receive this bonus until the Ancient era
ends and the Medieval era begins. When the Medieval era begins, Brad will lose
his +2 defensive bonus and get the usual +1 bonus.
Losing Settlements:
When you lose a settlement to another player, that player gets your city card but not any city
improvements or wonders assigned to it.
If you lose your last settlement, your civilization has fallen and you are eliminated from the game. If
this occurs:
The player that eliminated you gets all of your gold and wonders
Your technologies are placed on the side. While no one owns them, they may still be used to
build units, city improvements, and as prerequisites.
1717
Civ Note: Seminal discoveries are breakthrough technologies that allowed man to embark upon the next quantum leap forward in technology. Three of them
(Alphabet/ Writing, The Printing Press, and Computers) were monumental advances in Man’s ability to record, organize, and distribute ideas, thus facilitating all
other advancement. The fourth (Steam Power) shattered the limiting factor of muscle power on man’s productivity and ushered in a new era of fast travel and
industrial productivity. The discovery of these technologies bestows upon the civilizations responsible for their discovery a great deal of prestige. 
While the concept of seminal discoveries does not exist in the PC games, it is akin to the concept of wonders and “culture”. Great civilizations do great things
and are remembered for them. 

SET-UP
Game Length:
Before setting up the gameboard, decide which game you want to play.
1. The Short Game: the short game last between two and three hours.
2. The Medium Game: the medium game last between three and four hours.
3. The Long Game: the long game last between four and six hours.
The short game ends in the medieval era. When a player purchases a medieval era technology, 
roll one die. If the die roll is equal to or less than the number of medieval technologies owned by all
players, the game ends at the end of that turn.
The medium game ends in the gunpowder/industrial era. When a player purchases a
gunpowder/industrial era technology, roll one die. If the die roll is equal to or less than the number
of gunpowder/industrial technologies owned by all players, the game ends at the end of the turn.
The long game ends when one of the following four events occurs:
1. Total conquest
2. Diplomatic victory
3. Military victory
4. Technology/space victory
Diplomatic, Military, and technology/space victories each confer different bonus victory points 
in addition to the regular victory points awarded at the end of the game (see Winning the 
Game below).
Total Conquest:
If at the end of a turn there is only one player with settlements left on the board, that player is
declared the winner.
Diplomatic Victory:
If you own the United Nations wonder of the world, you can declare the game over at any time. 
At the end of the turn that you make the declaration, all players count their victory points and a
winner is declared.
Military victory:
If you own the Apollo Program wonder of the world, you can declare the game over at any time. 
At the end of the turn that you make the declaration, all players count their victory points and a
winner is declared.
Technology/space victory:
When any player purchases the Alpha Centauri Colony Ship wonder of the world, the game ends
immediately at he end of that turn.
Note: The Alpha Centauri Colony Ship wonder is the only wonder that must be purchased. Once the
fusion technology (that allows the Alpha Centauri wonder) has been purchased, any player may pur-
chase the colony ship for 200 gold.
Prepare For Play:
Once you have decided on the length of the game, mix all the exploration markers and place one,
face down, on each named land region on the board. Without looking at them, take the remaining
markers and put them back in the game box.
(Note: If you want to play in a world that has more resources, before mixing and placing the explo-
ration markers, remove two “no encounter” markers per player in the game) 
Give each player coins totaling twenty (20) gold, two villages, two swordsmen, and two settlers in
their chosen color.
Now, each player rolls two dice. Whoever rolled highest will go first. In case of a tie, roll again.
The first player selects one starting region. In your turn, you’ll do the same. Simply place a village, 
a swordsman, and a settler in the space you selected. When all players have selected one starting
region, the last player to choose selects a second region and places his or her second village, 
swordsman, and settler. Placement now continues counterclockwise, until every player has 
two starting regions.
Each player starts the game with one ancient technology. Remove all of the ancient technologies
that do not have prerequisites. Shuffle them and deal one to each player, and replace any that were
not dealt.
Angela is the first player. She places a village, a swordsman, and a settler in
Mississippi. Brad is the second player. He places his village, swordsman, and 
settler in Steppe. Chris is the third and last player. She places her village,
swordsman, and settler in Gran Chaco. Now the order is reversed. Chris places
her remaining village, swordsman, and settler in Orinoco. Brad goes next and
selects Yunnan as his location for his remaining pieces. Angela goes last and
chooses Mexica as her final starting location.
Now, Angela shuffles the Wheel, Bronze Working, Masonry, Alphabet/ Writing,
Pottery/ Specialization, and Cerimonial Burial technology cards. She deals one 
to each player. Angela gets Masonry, Brad gets Bronze Working, and Chris gets
Pottery/ Specialization.
Now, everyone flips the exploration markers in their starting locations. These take effect immediate-
ly. However, if you find minor civilizations, deserts, and/or plagues, place the exploration markers
back in the game box. These events are ignored and have no effect when discovered during set-up.

Once everybody has placed their starting game pieces on the board, roll two dice again. Whoever
rolled highest will go first. In case of a tie, roll again. Play will continue clockwise around the table.
Now, you are ready to begin the game!
GAME TURN SEQUENCE
A game turn is divided into turn phases. During each phase all players, beginning with the starting
player and continuing clockwise, may perform the actions for that phase. When all phases have
been completed, the turn ends. The player to the left of this turn’s starting player becomes the new
starting player, and the turn sequence is repeated.
Angela rolled an eleven during set-up and is the starting player. Brad is seated
to her left, and Chris is seated to Brad’s left and Angela’s right.
After the first game turn is complete, Brad becomes the starting player. When
the second turn ends, Chris becomes the starting player. When the third turn is
over, Angela becomes the starting player again.
Note: Since the starting player will change during the course of game, you might want to give the
current starting player some type of marker to remind everyone who he or she is. A crown or a
scepter are best, but in a pinch, a goblet will suffice.
TURN PHASES
There are four turn phases in a game turn:
1. Movement and battles phase
2. Trade phase
3. Production phase
4. Purchase phase
Each phase is described in detail below.
Movement And Battles Phase:
Movement:
During the movement and battles phase you may move none, some, or all of your military units and
settlers. They may move as many spaces as they have movement points (MP’S). You may move units
into land regions and sea zones with pieces belonging to other players. Units from more than one
player may occupy a single region without fighting. Battles occur if any player with military units in
a space that you enter wants to fight a battle. Once you start fighting battles, you cannot move
any more playing pieces! Make sure that you finish all movement before resolving any battles.
Likewise, once you look under an exploration marker, you cannot move your settler to another
land region!
To move armies and/or settlers across sea zones, you need to have a fleet in a sea zone adjacent to
them. Your armies and settlers have to spend one move to enter or exit the fleet. Thus, armies will
always spend at least one turn in a fleet, but it is possible for settlers to move onto and off of a
fleet in the same turn.
Angela started her movement and battles phase with two settlers and a catapult
in the Mekong land region. She moves a caravel one sea zone to the space
between Mekong and Tanami. Now she places her catapult and settlers in the
sea zone with the caravel. Angela can:
• Move her settlers to Tanami and look at the exploration marker there, if any.
• Move one of her settlers to Tanami, look at the exploration marker there, if
any, and move her other settler to Tasmania.
• Move her settler to Tanami, look at the exploration marker there, if any, and
move her caravel and catapult to the sea zone adjacent to Java and
Tasmania.
• Move her caravel, settler, and catapult to the sea zone adjacent to Java and
Tasmania and then move her settler to Tasmania and look at the exploration
marker there, if any.
• Move her caravel, settler, and catapult to another sea zone and keep all her
pieces in the new sea zone.
Notice that if Angela’s settler had started the phase in Himalaya, she could have
moved the settler first to Mekong and then to the sea zone with the caravel.
She would not have been able to move the settler into another land region after
entering the sea zone because she already had moved her settler twice in the
movement and battles phase.
Important! Each fleet unit can carry up to three armies and/or settlers! Place the fleet and the
game pieces it is carrying close to each other to identify which fleets are carrying which game
pieces.
Note: The world map wraps around on the left and right edges. Therefore, movement is possible
from the left edge sea zones to the right edge sea zones and vice versa.
Air Movement:
You can move aircraft up to three adjacent spaces per turn. Aircraft must end their movement in a
land region with your military units and/or settlement, or a sea zone with one of your Carriers on it.
A player may only have a maximum of two aircraft units/ carrier in a sea zone at the end of his
movement/ battles phase. 
Battles:
When you have completed all your movement, you fight any declared battles. There are two ways
battles can occur in the game:
1. When you are finished moving your pieces, you can declare a battle 
in any space you have military units present.
2. When you move any game pieces into a space where one or more players 
already have military units, any one of the other players can declare a battle. 
Place your game pieces on their side to remind you a battle was declared.
Civ Note: Wonders: Other than the colony ship wonder, wonders are not built over time in the Board Game
the way that they are in the PC games. Instead they are prestigeous rewards for civilizations at the cutting
edge of technological advancement. This design decision was made to streamline and speed play, while retain-
ing the flavor and function of wonders in the PC games.

When another player declares a battle against you, the game piece(s) that entered the space where
the battle was declared have to stop moving. However, you can move any game pieces that haven’t
moved yet, until you have no more legal moves to make. All battles are fought after you are done
moving.
Once a battle is declared, any other players with military units in the space may join either side.
However, for the duration of the battle these players give control of their military units to the origi-
nal attacker or defender. If more than one of the players in a space wants to start a battle against
the player who moved military units into the space, the player with the most military units will take
control of the battle. If two or more players have the same number of military units, roll two dice.
The player with the highest roll will be the attacker.
How to resolve battles:
Once the attackers and defenders have been selected:
1. Remove all the military units from the space where the battle is occurring.
2. Place a screen between you and your opponent (the reference card works well for this).
3. You and your opponent each choose one military unit to fight and 
place it in front of the others.
4. Remove the screen.
5. Roll the appropriate number of dice for the chosen military units, 
and add any modifiers to the roll.
6. The player with the highest result wins the fight. In case of a tie, both units are eliminated.
Once a battle starts, neither side can retreat! Repeat steps two through six (one round of 
battle) until one of you has no units remaining. If you are fighting fleets in a sea zone, any
military units and/or settlers carried in a fleet that is eliminated are also eliminated. Non-fleet
units in a sea zone cannot fight against enemy fleets (They are helpless cargo). 
Note: Air units are the exception. They may fight with and support fleets (see below).
Note: Cities can only be captured when the owner has no units in that region. 
Dice and modifiers:
In each battle, the chosen piece from each player rolls the appropriate # of dice and adds the
appropriate modifiers before comparing the total.
Dice:
Military units from the ancient era roll one die each.
Military units from the medieval era roll two dice each.
Military units from the gunpowder/industrial era roll three dice each.
Military units from the modern era roll four dice each.
Modifiers:
There are 3 possible types of modifiers that can be added to the battle die roll if they apply.
Defending a Settlement:
When defending a land region with one of your settlements, add one to your die roll.
Battlefield Superiority:Each type of army (infantry, Cavalry, & Artillery) is superior to one other
type and inferior to one other type. If the type that you have is chosen is superior to the type
that your opponent has chosen, you may add the # of the current era (1 to 4) to your die roll.
When cavalry fights infantry, add the # of the current era to the cavalry’s die roll.
When infantry fights artillery, add the # of the current era to the infantry’s die roll.
When artillery fights cavalry, add the # of the current era to the artillery’s die roll.
(The current era: Ancient era=1, Medieval era=2, Gunpowder era=3, and Modern era=4)
Note: You can remember which armies are superior if you think CIA: C(avalry) is superior to:
I(nfantry) is superior to: A(rtillery) is superior to cavalry.
Unit Modifiers:
Some unit types have modifiers associated with them. These are shown after the plus (+) sign
in the unit description on the technology card and on the chart below.
Military Unit Upgrades:
Military units do not upgrade to the next era, (to a different piece) except catapults which all
upgrade to trebuchets as soon as the medieval technology of “Engineering” is purchased
(because the same piece is used for both units).
Military units do automatically upgrade to the best type available within their era. As soon as a
new technology is purchased that allows a better type to be built within the era, all old types
from the same era automatically upgrade.
Brad has 2 Swordsmen (ancient infantry), 1 Chariot (ancient cavalry), and 1
Catapult (ancient artillery).
• Horseback Riding is purchased by Chris. Brad’s Chariot 
automatically upgrades to a Horseman.
• Later, Angela purchases Feudalism, which allows Men-at-Arms to be built
(medieval infantry). Brad’s Swordsmen do not upgrade since Men-at-Arms 
are infantry units from a different era that use a different piece.
• Shortly thereafter Brad purchases engineering, which allows Trebuchets 
to be built. His Catapult automatically upgrades to a Trebuchet 
(different era, but same piece)

Aircraft:
Unlike armies and fleets, aircraft do not get to fight against other military units. Instead, you
can select an aircraft and a military unit to fight together. The aircraft adds additional dice to
the military unit’s roll. All other modifiers still apply. If you lose the fight, both the army and
the aircraft are eliminated!
Aircraft can move 3 spaces/ turn. You can move your air units into land regions or sea zones.
You must, however, end their movement in a region that contains one of your cities, or in a
region that contains one of your armies, or in a sea zone that contains one of your carriers.
Aircraft cannot be stopped and attacked by other player’s units when moving. This means that
they may fly through enemy held spaces without being attacked.
Aircraft units are eliminated if attacked by enemy armies or fleets when they have no friendly
armies or fleets in the space with them. 
Brad moved two tanks (4 dice), an artillery (3 dice +3), and a monoplane 
(add 2 dice) into Orinoco. Chris has one musketman (3 dice), one tank (4 dice),
one cannon (3 dice +1), three settlers, and a metropolis there. Brad decides to
fight Chris.
After placing the their armies behind the screen, Brad selects one of his 
tanks and his monoplane to fight. Chris selects his cannon. Now they 
remove the screen.
Brad rolls six dice: four dice for the tank, a modern era army, plus two extra 
dice for his fighter. The result is twenty.
Chris rolls three dice and adds one (cannon units get 3 dice +1), and adds four
more to the result because her artillery is a superior type to Brad’s tank (which 
is a cavalry type). Chris also adds one more to her die roll since she is defending
in a region with one of her settlements. She rolls a fourteen. When she adds her
modifiers (+6) to the die roll the final result equals twenty. Since the rolls are
tied, all three military units are eliminated.
Brad now selects his other tank. Chris selects her tank. When they remove the
screen, both roll four dice. Chris gets to add one to her roll again. Brad gets a
seventeen. Chris gets a twelve, adds plus one to the roll (defending a settle-
ment), and gets a thirteen. Chris’s tank is eliminated.
Brad can now select either his tank or his artillery. Since he knows Chris’s only
military unit left is a musketman, he chooses his tank again to get the plus 
four to his die roll. After removing the screen, Brad rolls four dice and gets 
a thirteen. After adding the bonus, Brad’s total is eighteen. Chris rolls 
a twelve on three dice and adds one for defending a settlement. 
Thirteen is not enough and she loses her last military unit. 
Brad has won this battle!
Military Units Strength Table
Era
Unit Type
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
Spearman 
(1 die)
Chariot (1die)
(1 die)
Trebuchet
Galleon
(2 dice +2)
Industrial
Rifleman
(3 dice +2)
(3 dice +1)
(3 dice +3)
Ironclad
(3 dice +2)
(4 dice)
Mechanized
Infantry (4 dice +2)
Tank (4 dice)
Modern Armor
(4 dice +3) 
Rocket Artillery
(4 dice +2)
Cruise Missiles 
(4 dice +4)
(4dice +1)
Carrier
(4 dice)
Biplane 
(add 1 die)
Monoplane 
(add 2 dice)
Jet 
(add 3 dice)
Stealth Aircraft
(add 4 dice)

Since Brad now controls Orinoco, he eliminates Chris’s three settlers and
exchanges her metropolis for one of his own.
Chris moves two battleships (4 dice+1) into a sea zone where Brad has a frigate
(3 dice) and a caravel (2 dice). Brad also has a machinegunner and a howitzer
right next to the caravel, to denote the caravel is transporting them.
Chris selects one her battleships. Brad selects his frigate. After removing the
screen, Chris rolls four dice and gets a nine. She adds one point for a total of
ten. Brad rolls three dice and gets a six. Brad’s frigate is eliminated.
Now Brad has to select his caravel to fight one of Chris’s battleships. Brad 
rolls two dice, and gets a twelve! Chris rolls four dice and gets a sixteen. Brad’s
caravel and its machinegunner and howitzer cargo are eliminated.
Trade Phase:
During the trade phase you can negotiate deals with other players if their civilization is within your
trade range (see below). The most common trade is one resource city card for another. This repre-
sents trade of the production and goods of the two cities. This trade lasts only until the end of the
production phase, when the cards are traded back. The main reason for engaging in resource trade is
to gain production advantages. Players that control three, four, or five of the same resource cards
get extra gold during the production phase. Also, this is your opportunity to trade resources that
may be rolled as a critical resource in the production phase. When city cards are traded, any city
improvements that were previously assigned to the city cards are not traded with them and may be
reassigned to another city card. 
Permanent trades for other items are also allowed: Settlers, military units, cities, gold, technologies,
and even wonders may be traded. The trades don’t have to be equal, and any promises made for
future favors are not binding. However, any agreement that can be completed in this phase (trading
gold and/or cards, for example), must be completed. Resource city cards are returned to their 
owners at the end of the production phase.
Trade Range:
When using the advanced rules, trades may only occur between players that have settlements that
are close enough. This “range” changes depending on the technologies that have been discovered.
The Trade Range Chart shows which technologies increase the trade range.
Land Regions shows how many regions away another player’s closest settlement may be to
any of your settlements to allow trading between you.
Sea Zones show how many sea zones away another player’s closest settlement may be to any
of your settlements to allow trading between you.
note: Land and sea ranges are not combined to determine Trade Range
Production Phase:
During the production phase you calculate how much gold your civilization produces. There are four
components to your civilization’s income. These are:
City production
Critical resource
Resources
Monopolies
City Production:
City cards describe how much gold each settlement produces. Each settlement produces different
amounts of gold, depending on the settlement’s size, happiness, and productivity. To keep track of
your city production, keep your city cards with the correct happy/unhappy side facing up, and the
right settlement size at the top of the card. Also, make certain the city improvements you have
assigned to your settlements are next to the appropriate city cards. Be careful to use the burgundy-
colored value for regular settlements, and the black-colored value for those settlements with 
productivity improvements.
It is the medieval era. Angela is the starting player. She has three villages, each
in a land region with a wine exploration marker. All three villages are automati-
cally happy. Angela also has a Granary city improvement, thus improving the
productivity of one of the villages.
Angela adds her city production: Two villages are worth 4 gold each, and the 
village with the granary is worth 8, so she has a total of 16 gold.
Brad has one village in a land region with a wine exploration marker, one 
town in a land region with a spices exploration marker, and one town in a 
land region with a productive exploration marker. Brad’s wine village is 
automatically happy.
Trade Range
Trade Range
Most Recent Technology
Land Regions
Sea Zones Between Cities
Start of Game
1 (city in an adjacent region)
No Sea Trade
Trade / Mapmaking
Astronomy
Navigation
Steam Power
Flight
Unlimited

He chooses the town with the spices to be his one free happy settlement, and he
uses his courthouse city improvement to make his fertile town happy. All three
of Brad’s settlements are happy. He owns no productivity city improvements,
however, his town with the “productive” exploration marker allows him to use
the productive value for that town.
Brad adds his city production: his wine village is worth 4 gold, his town in the
land region with a spices exploration marker is worth 6 gold, and his town in a
land region with a fertile exploration marker is worth 6 gold as well. Brad’s total
city production is 16 gold.
Chris has two towns, one in a land region with a bare exploration marker 
and another in a land region with an oil exploration marker. She also has a 
granary, which she assigns to the oil town.
Chris adds her city production: Chris chooses to make the oil town happy (her
free happy settlement) and productive (with the granary), so it produces 12
gold. Her other town is unhappy, unproductive, and it has no resources, so it
produces only 1 gold. Chris’s total city production is 13 gold.
Critical Resource:
There is a new critical resource in each production phase. The starting player for that turn rolls two
dice, and consults the critical resource table below. Any player that has a city card showing the
resource rolled on the table gets an additional fifteen gold! They get the critical resource bonus
even if they only have the resource temporarily as the result of a trade. (Note: A player that traded
away the critical resource that turn does not get the bonus.)
Continuing the example above, Angela now rolls two dice, gets an eight, 
and looks at the critical resource table, above. The result is spices. Brad 
is the only player with a city card with the spices resource. Brad gets an 
additional fifteen gold.
Now, Angela has 16 gold, Brad has 31 gold, and Chris has 13 gold.
Resources:
Now, count how many unique resources (not resource cards) you control. Each unique resource is
worth three additional gold.
Continuing the example above, Angela has three city cards with the wine
resource printed on them. Since Angela has three identical resources (wine), 
she only has one resource type. She gets an extra three gold to her total.
Brad has one wine resource city card and one spices resource city card (two
unique resources). He gets an extra six gold to his total.
Chris has only one oil resource city card. She receives three extra gold.
Adding the extra gold to their previous totals, Angela now has 19 gold, 
Brad has 37 gold, and Chris has 16 gold.
Monopolies:
If you control three or more of the same resource type, you get a monopoly bonus. If you have…
Three of the same resource, you get an extra twenty (20) gold.
Four of the same resource, you get an extra forty (40) gold.
Five of the same resource, you get an extra eighty (80) gold.
In the example above, only Angela has multiple resources of the same kind. 
Her three wine resource city cards means she gets an extra twenty gold to 
her total. Thus, Angela now has 39 gold, while Brad and Chris still have 
37 and 16 gold, respectively.
Minimum Gold Production:
Your civilization can never receive less than ten gold in this phase. If your gold production is nine 
or less, you still collect ten gold at the end of the production phase.
Purchase Phase:
During the purchase phase you use the gold you have accumulated to purchase new military 
units, settlers, settlements, technologies, etc. The table below indicates how much each item 
costs in each era.
Critical Resource Table
Die Roll Result
2-3
4-5
6-8
9-10
11-12
Rare Metals

Usually, you simply total the cost of the things you want to purchase, pay the amount to the 
bank, and take your new purchases. However, some items have certain special rules:
Purchasing Military Units:
You can only purchase military units of the same era you are playing. Additionally, you cannot 
purchase a military unit until a player purchases the technology that allows building it. Once any
player buys the proper technology, every player can purchase that type of military unit. If you do
not own the technology for the military unit(s) you want to purchase, the player who owns it gets 
a portion of the purchase price of each military unit you purchase. However, if you own the 
technology, you pay the full price to the bank.
Angela owns the Chivalry technology card. Brad owns the Feudalism technology
card. No one owns the Engineering technology card.
In her purchasing phase, Angela decides to buy two men-at-arms, three knights,
and one catapult. Angela pays the bank twenty gold and pays ten gold to Brad,
since Brad owns Feudalism, which allows players to build men-at-arms. Next,
Angela pays the bank forty-five gold, since she owns the Chivalry technology
card. She does not get to save any gold or pay herself a fee, even though she
owns the appropriate technology card. Finally, since nobody owns the
Engineering technology card, she is unable to purchase the catapult she 
wanted to buy.
In any given turn, you can place as many game pieces in a space as the size of the settlement that
you own there. Thus, you can place a single game piece in a land region with a village, two game
pieces in a land region with a town, etc. Fleets must be placed in a sea zone adjacent to one of your
settlements, and they count towards the number of game pieces you can place in a space.
Selling Military units:
You can “sell” military units from previous eras back to the bank for one-fifth of their original cost.
Thus, as soon as the game advances into the medieval era you could sell your horsemen back to the
bank for two gold each.
Purchasing New Settlements:
To build a new settlement, you must have a settler in the land region where you want to place your
new village. Exchange the settler for a village, and pay ten gold to the bank.
Upgrading Settlements:
When any player purchases a technology that allows upgrading settlements (to the next size), 
all players can upgrade their settlements. However, the player who owns the technology that
allows upgrading of settlements does not receive any money from players who upgrade their
settlements! You can upgrade any number of settlements on each purchase phase, but you can 
only upgraded each settlement by one size per turn. Villages may not be upgraded on the same 
turn in which they are built.
Purchasing City Improvements:
You can only purchase city improvements of the current era. Additionally, you cannot purchase city
improvements until a player purchases the technology that allows building them. Once any player
buys the proper technology, every player can purchase that type of city improvement. If you do not
own the technology for the city improvement you want to purchase, the player who owns it gets a
portion of the purchase price for the city improvement. However, if you own the technology, you
still pay the full price to the bank.
Each player may only purchase one of each city improvement. 
Chris could purchase a granary, a marketplace, a temple, and a courthouse, 
but could not purchase two of any of them. If she purchases a granary, she
could not purchase a second one.
City improvements become ineffective when a new era begins. All players return their old city
improvement cards to the common pool, to be used again in the new era.
Purchasing Technologies:
To purchase a technology, you must pay the cost listed on the card, and all the prerequisites listed at
the bottom of the card must be in play. In other words, you don’t have to own those prerequisites,
but someone does.
You can purchase technologies from previous eras, at half their printed value, if all their prerequisite
technologies are already in play. While you won’t get the maximum benefit of the technology, you
will still score points for it at the end of the game and get the special “owner” bonus.
Purchase Table
Ancient Era Medieval Era
Part of unit or improvement cost
payable to the technology owner
Settler
Found a new village
Upgrade to the next
larger settlement size
City improvements
Current era technologies
Value listed on the card
Previous eras technologies
Half the value listed on the card
Civ Note: Advantages for various government types and Nationalities have not been
included in The Board Game, but are currently planned to be included in an expansion
pack along with a random map system.

Things to Remember:
When every player has finished their purchase phase, return any 
resources traded to their owners.
When an era ends, return all previous era city improvements to the common pool.
When an era ends, all benefits from previous eras’ wonders of the world are lost. However,
keep all of your old wonders of the world for scoring purposes when the game ends.
WINNING THE GAME
Unless the game ends with a total conquest, all players tally the victory points that they have 
accumulated. The player with the most victory points wins the game. 
Victory Points:
You get victory points for:
1. The number and size of your settlements,
2. How many wonders of the world you own,
3. How many seminal discoveries you own, and
4. The special bonus victory points depending on how the game ended 
(diplomatic, military, or technology/ space victory)
1. Settlement Size:
You get victory points for each settlement you control:
Each village is worth one victory point.
Each town is worth two victory points.
Each city is worth three victory points.
Each metropolis is worth four victory points.
2. Wonders of the World:
You get two (2) victory points for each wonder of the world you own.
3. Seminal Discoveries:
You get four (4) victory points for each seminal discovery you control.
4. Bonus Victory Points:
If the game ends with a diplomatic victory, the player who owns the 
United Nations gets five (5) bonus victory points.
If the game ends with a military victory, all players get one (1) bonus 
point for each military unit that they own.
If the game ends with a technology/space victory, all players get 
one (1) bonus point for each technology card that they own.
Brad owns the United Nations and the Apollo Program wonders, but has 
decided to attempt to end the game with a technology/ space victory condition
in order to end the game with a victory condition that gives bonus points for
technologies (of which he has many) rather than military units (of which Chris
and Angela have many). He saves his gold for three turns in a row and suddenly
declares that he is buying the Fusion technology AND the Alpha Centauri Colony
AND ending the game with a technology/ space victory condition. The other
players finish their purchases and they all tally their victory points:
Angela has one village, two towns, three cities, and three metropolises. She also
has eight technologies, and one wonder of the world. Her victory points are:
• 26 victory points for her settlements
• 8 victory points for her technologies
• 2 victory points for her wonder of the world
Her total score is thirty-six (36) victory points.
Brad has no villages, no towns, four cities, and six metropolises. He also has 
fifteen technologies (3 of them are seminal discoveries), and eight wonders of
the world. His victory points are:
• 36 victory points for his settlements
• 15 victory points for his technologies
• 12 victory points for his seminal discoveries
• 16 victory points for his wonders of the world
His total score is seventy nine (79) victory points.
Chris has no villages, two towns, four cities, and eight metropolises. She also 
has seven technologies (1 seminal discovery), and five wonders of the world. 
Her victory points are:
• 48 victory points for her settlements
• 7 victory points for her technologies
• 4 victory points for her seminal discoveries
• 10 victory points for her five wonders of the world
Her total score is fifty four (69) victory points.
Brad has the most victory points, and has won the game!
THIS IS THE END OF THE ADVANCED RULES.
Civ. Note: Similar to the PC game, the winner is essentially the player with the
most impressive civilization. In other words, the biggest, happiest, most cultured,
most developed, and most advanced civilization in the world.

DESIGNER’S NOTES
I’ve been a fan of Sid Meier’s Civilization ever since I received the alpha version of the original PC
game back in the Fall of 1991. As I loaded the game and began exploring, I wondered at the scale
and scope of this new game. I wondered at the richness and detail. I wondered what the heck all
those Elvises were doing in my cities. I played for hours, and as day turned into night, I began to
realize that what I was looking at was a breakthrough product that allowed players to shake off
their daily cares and take on a new identity. They could not only become king for a day; they could
become the guiding spirit of an entire civilization through the entire course of history. This game
would give players an experience previously unknown in electronic gaming. 
Back then I was a district sales manager for MicroProse and was thrilled to be working with industry
pioneers like Sid Meier and Bruce Shelley. Although I wasn’t involved with the development of the
products, I was lucky enough to get an insider’s point of view. And even as I sold the products, I
dreamed that someday I would get the chance to design them. As I look back on those days, I 
consider myself fortunate indeed that I have been able to add something to the Civilization 
franchise, and to allow players to enjoy the experience in a whole new way.
Glenn Drover
August, 2002
“CIVILIZATION: THE BOARDGAME” ART DEDICATION
I would like to dedicate the art that I ardently created for "Civilization: The Boardgame" to my won-
derfully supportive and loving family. To my beautiful wife, Terri, your compassion and love for life
is a daily inspiration to me. I am an empty vessel without you. To my two terrific stepchildren, Scott
and Anna, every moment you have been in my life has been a blessing. I could not count them all.
To the newest edition to the Niemeyer family, Khalin, our adopted baby son from Kazakhstan. Every
day stretches out before us, a new adventure in love. A chance for you to teach me. Welcome, my son.
"I have seen that in any great undertaking it is not enough for one to depend simply upon
himself."- Lone Man (Isna La-Wica), Teton Sioux Chief
It is my sincere wish that "Civilization: The Boardgame" brings joy, and the warmth of family and
friendship to everyone who plays it. Enjoy!
"Why stay we on the earth, except to grow." - Robert Browning
Paul E. Niemeyer
August, 2002
CREDITS
Boardgame Concept & Design:
Glenn Drover
Gameboard & Component Art:
Paul Niemeyer
Graphic Design & Layout:
James Provenzale and Jacoby O’Connor; 
Fast Forward Design Associates
Rules Manual:
Alfredo Lorente, Glenn Drover
Legal:
Jack Provenzale; Provenzale & Criter
Production & Assembly:
Neal Chukerman; Chukerman Packaging
Plastic Production:
Matt Jacobs; Advanced Molding Solutions
Playtesting:
Glenn Drover, Theodore Kuhn, Brian Ritzenthaler, 
Jack Provenzale, Paul Niemeyer, Alfredo Lorente, 
Patrick Provenzale, Geoff Zoeller, Nick Szegedi, 
Pierre Szegedi, Mike McMahon, Bill Meyers, 
Natilly Meyers, Rick Lorgus, John Poskin, 
James Provenzale, David Cronister, Praveen Kosuri, 
Jeff Vitous, Samuel E. Liebert, Dan Krapp
Special Thanks to:
Jon Leach, Rachel Hoagland, Sid Meier, 
Jeff Briggs, Dan Magaha 

Detail from the “Nine Dragon Scroll” (1244 C.E.), Ch’en Jung.
The symbols are Courage and Wisdom, necessary ingredients
to win at any game.
Ganesha, offspring of Shiva, is the god of intellect and
learning. This statue is from Angkor Wat ((late 12th century
C.E.), Khmer Empire, Cambodia.
Bronze sculpture of Sumerian king, Sargon of Akkad, 2300
B.C.
2 guardian figures of brass hammered over wood from
Bakota area, Gabon, Africa. The background is a typical
Cameroon design, mid 19th century C.E.
Steatite seals from Mohenjo Daro, Harappan culture of the
ancient Indus valley, third millennium, B.C.
Ceremonial mask, Polynesia, mid-19th century A.D.
Egyptian stylized vulture wings with cobras are a sign of
royalty, and serve as the background for a golden falcon
head from the 7th – 8th dynasties of the old kingdom (2150
– 2134 B.C.)
Shield and helmet of the Calliphates Army, Fatimid infantry
(11th century A.D.), who opposed Peter the Hermit and the
first crusade.
Australian aboriginal painting on bark of a kangaroo hunt
Detail of a Persian rug, captioned in Hebrew, commemorat-
ing the union of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba. A side
panel depicts the Lion of Judah, the line of descent of
Ethiopian kings.
Seated Buddha from Gandhara, 3rd century A.D.
Golden Tumi ceremonial knife of the Sican, part of the Incan
Chimu Empire, 900-1476 A.D.
The tapestry of Bayeaux, commemorating the battle of
Hastings, October 14, 1066 A.D. The inscription reads, “Hic
Odo epis(copus) baculu(m) tenens confortat pueros. Hic est
Willelm (dux).” Translation: Here bishop Odo, with a staff in
his hand, encourages his squires. Here is Duke William.”
These three Mayan glyphs represent a numbering system
designed to keep track of time. The number here is 5 bak-
tuns katun, and 9 tuns, equaling 730,440 days. If calculated
from the beginning of the Common Era, the date ends up
being the Ides of March (15th), 2002; the day that I
designed this portion of the art.
Zulu! This war shield is estimated to belong to uMxapho
ibuthu, a regiment of the Zulu army in 1879 A.D.
These Navajo patterns are hundreds of years old. The eagle
on the wedding basket denotes strength and fertility. The
basket always belongs to the bride. The husband looks after
her goods, but never owns anything himself.
Totems record history or connections with spirit ancestors.
This totem belongs to a Kwakiutl warrior group from what is
now Oregon.
The famous “Toreador Fresco” of the Minoan civilization that
existed on Crete in about 1500 B.C.
A TOUR:
Paul Niemeyer takes us on
a tour of the images that
adorn the “frame” of the
game board.

J
K
NEOLITHIC CORNER
ANCIENT CORNER
Prehistoric carved stone balls found throughout Western
Europe.
An Arctic Nomadic tribal Shaman’s mask from about
12,000 B.C.
Early forged bronze sword from the opulent Hajdusamson
hoard in what is now Northeastern Hungary, 1900 B.C.
Early man leaves his mark, a hand print in ochre.
“Bison,” from La Madeleine near Lascaux, France. Made
from a reindeer horn, c. 15,000-10,000 B.C.
Skull of Neanderthal, an extinct race of humanoids.
The Megalithic Stoneage in southern Britain, which acts
as a giant calendar, marking soltices and celestial events.
The Venus of Willendorf, 25,000-20,000 B.C.
God figure with sickle in terra cotta, from about 2500
B.C., shows the importance of agriculture in early Europe.
Ancient pottery with stylized waterfowl design.
Man makes makes his makes on the cave wall at Lascaux,
France, 15-000-10,000 B.C., creating the first academic
subjects, Art, History, and consequently, Art History.
K
J
L
T
 
One of four massive statues of Ramses II at Abu Simbel in
Nubia (1290-1224 B.C.)
“Papyrus” columns from the religious center of Karnak
The entrance to the Babylonian Ishtar Gate, 575 B.C.
The mask of tragedy from a Roman theatre, 200-150 B.C.
“Dying Warrior” from the east pediment of the Temple at
Aegina, 490 B.C.
The head of a centaur from a façade at Pompeii, 59 A.D.
A Toltec warrior stella with hummingbird motif. Was one
of the many columns supporting the roof of the temple at
Tula, 1100 A.D.
The invention of cuneiform to keep track of trade goods
pioneers written communication
T
 

RENAISSANCE CORNER
MODERN CORNER
A bust of Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519 A.D.), painter,
sculptor, inventor, and arguably the quintessential
Renaissance man.
Michealangelo’s figures of Night and Day from the Tomb
of Guiliano de’ Medici, 1519-1534 A.D.
Detail from the Hall of the College, the Ducal Palace in
Venice 1581 A.D.
An excerpt from Bernini’s “Ecstasy of Saint Theresa,”
one of the great saints of the counter reformation,
1645-1652 A.D.
Entranceway sculpture of the Roman god of wine and
revelry Baccus, by an unknown artist of the period.
Elizabeth I of England (1533-1603 A.D.), known to her
people as “Good Queen Bess” or “The Virgin Queen”, made
England a world power.
Gutenberg’s movable type printing press and the Bible
he printed with it. Martin Luther exploited the new
technology to successfully promote the Reformation.
Albert Einstein (1879-1955 A.D.), Father of the
Nuclear Age.
Architecture based on the Sydney Opera House (1973
A.D.) by Jorn Utzon, and the TWA terminal at JFK Airport,
New York, by Eero Saarinen (1962 A.D.)
Detail of plastic and copper cubist sculpture “Torso”
by Antoine Pevsner, c. 1924-1926 A.D.
Thomas Alva Edison (1879-1931),
“The Wizard of Menlo Park”. 
“Recumbent Figure” by Henry Moore, (1938).
Stylized Post Modern bust.
The invention of the circuit board, the microchip, the
super conductor, the binary computer, and many more
such wonders propel civilization to that yet undiscovered
country...the future.
S
S
 
M
 

All Games Include:
Hundreds of professionally sculpted miniatures
3 sets of rules (Basic, Standard, & Advanced) that allow 
anyone to play a game that’s perfect for them
Giant gameboard (46”x36”) with artwork by Paul Niemeyer
Visit Our Website Often For The Latest News!

w w w. e a g l e g a m e s . n e t
©2002 Eagle Games, Inc.
™