Overview
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their 
dreams.”
	
–Eleanor Roosevelt
Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Board Game is a game for two to 
four players, with four players being recommended. Each player 
takes charge of a different civilization and attempts to lead their 
people to greatness.
Starting with a civilization composed of a single, humble 
city lacking even the most rudimentary of inventions, each 
player tries to advance their people by building new cities and 
improving them, researching new technologies, increasing their 
civilization’s culture, and harvesting valuable resources.
As the players create new cities and explore the world around 
them, they come into contact with smaller civilizations, 
some peaceful, some warlike. Players can absorb these minor 
civilizations into their own, garnering rewards for doing so.
Ultimately, however, the players’ most difficult challenge is 
facing each other, as one ascendant civilization collides with 
another. Players may wage war on the battlefield, broker sly 
deals in the shadows, or race to be the first to build the majestic 
wonders in order to become the dominant civilization on Earth. 
The Object of the Game
“Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith, let 
us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it.”
	
–Abraham Lincoln
Each player can win Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Board Game 
in one of four ways.
A culture victory is achieved by devoting cities to the arts and 
spending the culture points gained as a result to advance up the 
culture track to its end. The culture track is described in more 
detail on pages 17–18.
A tech victory is accomplished by researching the Space Flight 
tech. Doing so requires the player to build up their tech pyramid 
high enough to allow them to research a level 5 tech. The tech 
pyramid is described in more detail on pages 11 and 21–22.
An economic victory is completed by accumulating 15 coins. 
Coins are a measure of economic power, and gaining them 
makes a civilization more efficient. Coins and the means to 
acquire them are described in more detail on page 26.
Finally, a military victory is achieved by conquering one other 
player’s capital. Combat and conquering cities are described in 
more detail on pages 23–26.
A more detailed explanation of how to win the game can be 
found in “Winning the Game” on pages 22–23.
…And finally there evolved a species known as man.
And there appeared the first faint glimmers of intelligence.
The fruits of intelligence were many:
Fire, tools, and weapons,
The hunt, farming, and the sharing of food,
The family, the village, and the tribe.
Now it required but one more ingredient:
A great leader to unite the quarreling tribes,
To harness the power of the land,
To build a legacy that would stand the test of time:
The civilization.

Components
The following sections list and describe the physical components 
of Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Board Game.
This Rulebook
Market Board
6 Civilization Sheets
6 Trade Dials
6 Economy Dials
6 Plastic Connectors (for the trade and economy dials)
6 Home Map Tiles (1 for each civilization)
14 Neutral Map Tiles
12 City Markers (3 per player)
24 Plastic Army Figures (6 per player)
8 Plastic Scout Figures (2 per player)
1 Plastic White Russian Army Figure
55 Square Combat Cards, including:
15 Artillery Unit Cards
15 Infantry Unit Cards
15 Mounted Unit Cards
8 Aircraft Unit Cards
2 Combat Bonus Cards
224 Small Cards, including:
4 Setup Cards (1 per player)
16 Government Cards (4 per player)
144 Tech Cards (36 per player)
1 Space Flight Tech Card
47 Culture Event Cards
12 Wonder Cards
12 Wonder Markers (4 Ancient, 4 Medieval, 4 Modern)
6 Culture Level Markers (1 per civilization)
18 Great Person Markers
28 Military Tech Markers (7 per player)
49 Building Markers, including:
10 Harbor Markers
6 Trading Post Markers
6 Workshop/Iron Mine Markers
6 Library/University Markers
6 Granary/Aqueduct Markers
5 Market/Bank Markers
5 Temple/Cathedral Markers
5 Barracks/Academy Markers
20 Hut Markers
10 Village Markers
12 Disaster Markers
1 First Player Marker
16 Market Resource Tokens
90 Culture Tokens
28 Wound Tokens
75 Coin Tokens
4 Reference Sheets (1 per player)
Component Descriptions
This section identifies each component of Sid Meier’s 
Civilization: The Board Game.
Market Board
The market board consists of two main areas – the market and 
the culture area. The market, at the top, is where wonders, 
buildings, and units are placed for the players to purchase. The 
culture area, at the bottom, contains the culture track – which 
tracks the players’ progress towards a culture victory – and 
provides a place to keep the culture event cards during play.
Civilization Sheets
Each player receives a civilization sheet that explains the 
special properties of their civilization. See “Civilization Sheet 
Breakdown” on page 7 for further details.
Trade Dial, Economy Dial, 
and Plastic Connectors
The trade and economy dials are attached to each player’s 
civilization sheet using the plastic connectors and are used to 
track their civilization’s current trade and number of coins.

Map Tiles
These tiles include both home and neutral map tiles, and are used 
to construct the map board. Each map tile is composed of 16 
squares of terrain. See the “Map Tile and Icon Breakdown” on 
page 7 for further details.
Home Map Tiles
Each of these six map tiles belongs to a specific civilization, as 
indicated by the picture of the civilization’s leader on the back of 
its home tile. At the start of the game, each player’s home tile is 
where their civilization begins on the map board.
Neutral Map Tiles
These 14 map tiles do not belong to any specific civilization. 
Instead, they are shuffled up and laid out facedown at random to 
construct the rest of the map board during setup.
City Markers
Cities are indicated on the map by city markers. Each player 
receives three city markers – one capital and two normal cities. 
City markers have a walled version on their back. 
 
Capital City
 
Walled Capital Walled City
Plastic Army and Scout Figures
These plastic figures represent the players’ armies and scouts. 
The plastic flags are armies and represent the players’ military 
forces. The plastic wagons are scouts and represent the players’ 
non-military forces.
Note: The white army figure is for the Russian player’s use, as 
explained in “Player Setup” on pages 10–11.
 
	
Army Figures	
Scout Figures
Unit Cards
Each unit card represents either an artillery, infantry, mounted, 
or aircraft unit. Each unit card (except for aircraft) has four 
different versions of the unit depicted around its four edges. 
Each player uses the most powerful version of the unit that 
their civilization’s tech pyramid allows. Unit cards are more 
completely described on page 23.
Combat Bonus Cards
These cards are used at the start of combat to record any strength 
advantages one player has over the other in the battle.
 
Setup Cards
The setup cards list all of the items that the players start the 
game with. On the other side of these cards, all items that can be 
built at the start of the game are shown, as well as the starting 
values of any important civilization traits, such as travel speed.

Government Cards
These cards are used to indicate what type of government a 
player’s civilization is currently ruled by. Each card is double-
sided, with a different type of government on each side. A 
player’s civilization sheet shows what type of government 
their civilization begins the game with. For further details on 
governments, see page 14. 
Tech Cards
Tech cards represent various technologies or discoveries that a 
civilization can research to give them access to buildings, units, 
governments, or other abilities. Each player receives an identical 
deck of tech cards with which to track their civilization’s 
scientific progress. For a complete description of tech cards and 
the tech pyramid, see pages 11 and 21–22.
Note: Space Flight is a special level 5 tech card that ends the 
game when researched. As such, only one copy of it is included 
with the game.
Culture Event Cards
Culture event cards are divided into three decks – ancient 
(one column), medieval (two columns), and modern (three columns). 
These cards are gained as players move up the culture track.
Culture events have a variety of effects designed to either help 
the player who plays the culture event or to hurt that player’s 
opponents. Culture events are more fully described on page 18.
Wonder Cards and Markers
Wonders are awe-inspiring monuments or accomplishments that 
secure a civilization’s place in human history. Each wonder has 
a card and a marker corresponding to it. The card explains the 
wonder’s cost and ability, while the marker indicates its position 
on the map. For more information on wonders, see page 17.
 
 Wonder Cards Wonder Markers
Culture Level Markers
These markers are used to record the player’s progress on the 
culture track. For more information, see “B. Devote to the Arts” 
on page 17.
Great Person Markers
Great person markers represent famous or important people who 
appear in a civilization. There are six different kinds of great 
people, as listed below:
Artist
Builder
General
Humanitarian
Industrialist
Scientist
Great people provide useful resources to the city they are placed in 
and are usually gained by a civilization’s advancing up the culture 
track. For further information on great people, see page 18.
Military Tech Markers
These markers are used to track the players’ military technology. 
For more information, see “Upgrading Units” on page 21.

Building Markers
Building markers are used to indicate city improvements that 
a player has built in a city’s outskirts. Typically, these markers 
increase the amount of trade, production, or culture a city 
produces each turn, but they may indicate other bonuses as well. 
For a complete description of building markers, see pages 16–17.
Hut and Village Markers
As players explore the map, they may encounter minor 
civilizations. A hut indicates a peaceful civilization that may be 
easily absorbed, while a village indicates a warlike civilization 
that must be subjugated through force of arms. Huts and villages 
are fully described on page 20.
 
 Hut Village
Disaster Markers
The disaster markers (which show grassland on one side and 
desert on the other) are used to mark the effects of Deforestation 
and Drought culture event cards. Culture events are more fully 
explained on page 18.
First Player Marker
The first player marker indicates which player 
goes first in each phase on a given turn.
Market Resource Tokens
Certain special resources appear on the map and may be harvested 
by the players and later used to activate resource abilities on their 
tech cards. The four main resources available are:
 
 
 
Wheat Silk Incense Iron
In addition, there are two resources that cannot be harvested 
from the map:
 
 Spy Uranium
Spies and uranium are never found on the map for harvesting, 
but spies can be gained from huts and villages. Uranium, on the 
other hand, can only be found in villages – and only very rarely 
at that.
Culture Tokens
These tokens are used by players to keep track 
of unspent culture until it is spent to advance 
their culture level markers up the culture track. 
Culture is normally gained by devoting a city to the 
arts, as described on page 17.
Wound Tokens
Wound tokens are used to keep track of damage 
inflicted to units during battle. Combat is described 
in detail on pages 23–26.
Coin Tokens
Coin tokens are used to record coins gained from 
certain tech cards such as Democracy. After a coin 
is gained through the use of a tech, a coin token is 
placed on that tech and the player’s economy dial 
is advanced by one. For full details on coins, see 
page 26.
Reference Sheets
The reference sheets contain a turn sequence breakdown on one 
side and a summary of item costs and some other important rules 
on the other.

Map Tile and Icon Breakdown
Civilization Sheet Breakdown
Each civilization sheet contains the 
civilization’s name (A), leader (B), special 
abilities (C), starting government (D), and 
starting tech (E). Every civilization sheet also 
has two dials (F). A civilization’s current trade 
( @ ) is tracked on the large outer dial, while 
the civilization’s total coins ( $ ) are tracked on 
the small inner dial.
F
Forest
There are five types of terrain that can be found on map tiles:
There are also natural wonders, which are squares that provide 
culture ( # ) in addition to their terrain type’s normal icons.
Forest
Each map tile is composed of 16 squares of terrain. Each square 
may contain one or more icons and/or resources that the square 
can provide to players.
Hut 
(Peaceful)
Village 
(Aggressive)
Recommended 
Capital Space for 
Beginners
Other important symbols that may appear on the map include:
The icons a square might contain include:
Culture
Coin
Wheat
Silk
Incense
Iron
Resources that a square might contain include:
Map Tile 
Entry Side

Preparing for the 
First Game
“The past is but the beginning of a beginning, and all that is or 
has been is but the twilight of the dawn.”
	
–H. G. Wells
Before playing Sid Meier’s Civilization: The Board Game for 
the first time, carefully punch out the cardboard components, 
making sure to keep them away from small children and 
animals.
Then, take the civilization sheets, trade dials, economy dials, and 
plastic connectors and assemble them as shown below.
For the first game, it is recommended that new players play a 
simplified learning game. Simply return Egypt, Rome, and the 
wonders (both cards and markers) to the box, and then ignore 
the rules for wonders for that game. Otherwise, play as normal 
until a player builds their third city. At that point, end the game 
and (if time allows and the players so desire) start a new game 
after adding Egypt, Rome, and the wonders back in. The point of 
the learning game is to familiarize the players with the various 
elements of the game, so there are no winners or losers in it.
General Setup
This section explains the general setup of the game.
1. Choose Civilizations and Colors
Each player draws a civilization sheet at random and places it 
faceup in front of them. Optionally, players may select their 
civilizations if all players agree. Return any unused civilization 
sheets to the box. Each player then chooses a player color.
2. Distribute Player Components
Each player takes the following in their player color:
Eight plastic figures (6 armies and 2 scouts)
Three city markers (1 capital and 2 cities)
Four military tech markers
One deck of 36 tech cards
Players also receive:
One reference sheet 
One setup card
One deck of government cards (4 cards)
3. Set Up Market Board
Place the market board at one end of the table, as shown in the 
diagram on page 9. On it, place the following:
A. Unit Cards
Sort the unit cards by type – artillery, infantry, mounted, and 
aircraft. Then, shuffle each deck, and place it on the marked space. 
Finally, give each player one artillery, one infantry, and one 
mounted unit. These units are placed facedown in a single pile 
near the player and are known as the player’s standing forces.
B. Military Tech Markers
Each player takes their lower ranked (one stripe on one side, two 
stripes on the other) military tech markers for artillery, infantry, 
and mounted units and places them in the area below the 
appropriate unit deck so that the sides with one stripe are faceup. 
They each then take their aircraft military marker and place 
it below the aircraft unit deck so that the side with the star is 
facedown. The other military tech markers are set aside for now.
C. Building Markers
Sort the building markers by type and place them on their 
indicated spaces. Note that a building with an arrow next to its 
name is an upgraded building and is found on the back of the 
un-upgraded building tile.
D. Wonder Cards (not used in the learning game)
Build the wonder deck by shuffling the ancient, medieval, and 
modern wonders separately. Place the modern wonders facedown 
on the top space of the wonder market. Then place the medieval 
wonders (also facedown) on top of them. Finally, place the ancient 
wonders faceup in the four market spaces below the wonder deck.
Exception: If Egypt is playing, Egypt receives one of the ancient 
wonders at random before the remainder are placed in the 
market. One of the medieval wonders is then drawn and placed 
in the market to replace the missing ancient wonder.
Many of the abilities and cards in this 
game allow the players to break the rules 
in a variety of ways. In the event that an 
ability or card conflicts with these rules, 
the ability or card takes priority.
The Golden Rule

Setup Diagram
(Numbers refer to General Setup steps.)
Map Setup by Number of Players
(Arrows indicate tile orientation.)
3A
3B
3C
3D
3E
3F
3F
3G
Four Players
Three Players
Two Players

E. Wonder Markers (not used in the learning game)
Look at the four faceup wonder cards in the market spaces below 
the wonder deck, find the matching wonder marker for each, and 
place the marker in the space next to its wonder card.
F. Culture Event Cards
Separate the culture event cards into ancient (one column), 
medieval (two columns), and modern (three columns) decks. 
Shuffle each deck separately and place it facedown on its indicated 
space below the culture track at the bottom of the market board.
G. Culture Level Markers
Each player takes the culture level marker showing their leader 
and places it on the start space of the culture track.
4. Set Up Market Resources
Place one of each market resource token per player near the market 
board, returning any extras to the box. For instance, if there are 
three players, three of each market resource token are used and the 
remaining market resource tokens are returned to the box.
5. Build Map
Each player takes their home map tile (the map tile with their 
civilization’s leader on the back) and places it faceup in front of 
them, oriented as indicated in the setup diagram for the proper 
number of players. Unused home tiles are returned to the box. 
Then, one player shuffles the neutral map tiles and deals them 
out facedown to form the rest of the map, again as indicated by 
the diagram on page 4. Return any unused neutral map tiles to 
the box without looking at them.
6. Shuffle Random Markers
Place the great people markers facedown near the market board 
and mix them up, keeping them facedown. Repeat this process 
for the hut markers and then the village markers.
7. Form Token Banks
Place the culture, wound, and coin tokens next to the market 
board in three separate stockpiles.
8. Place Special Cards and Markers
Place the combat bonus cards and the Space Flight tech card 
faceup near the market board along with the disaster markers. 
9. Select First Player
Choose a player to go first. Either choose the player who can 
trace their family history back the farthest, or select at random. 
Give the chosen player the first player marker. Finally, each 
player individually sets up their civilization by taking the steps 
in the next section.
Player Setup
After general setup is complete, each player does the following:
1. Place Capital
Each player chooses one of the four center squares on their 
home map tile to place their capital on. For a player’s first 
game, they are advised to use the square with the starting arrow 
(highlighted in red below) on it.
The player places their capital city marker on the selected 
square, unwalled side up. That square is known as the city 
center, while the eight squares adjacent to it (the squares with 
arrows pointing to them on the diagram below) are known as the 
city outskirts.

2. Gain Civilization Bonuses
Each player looks at their civilization sheet to see what, if 
anything, they receive as a bonus at the start of the game. The 
bonuses are summarized below:
America
America gains a random great person. America places the great 
person in the outskirts of their capital at the end of setup. (For a 
player’s first game, it is recommended that they place the great 
person in the grassland square next to their capital).
China
China starts with walls in its capital. China turns their capital 
city marker so that the marker’s walled side is up instead of its 
unwalled side.
Egypt
Egypt receives a random ancient wonder. This wonder should 
have already been taken from the market board during general 
setup. Its marker must be placed in the outskirts of the player’s 
capital. (For a player’s first game, it is recommended that they 
place the wonder marker in the grassland square by their capital.)
Germany
Germany starts with two extra infantry units from the market 
board, adding the units to their standing forces.
Rome
Rome begins the game governed by Republic instead of by 
Despotism, as described in step 5 of player setup, later on.
Russia
Russia takes the white Russian army figure and adds it to their 
figures. When figures are placed on the map in step 3 (below), 
Russia places the white army figure on the map as well. In 
addition, Russia begins the game governed by Communism 
instead of Despotism, as described in step 5 of player setup, later 
on.
3. Place Figures
Each player takes one of their army figures and one of their scout 
figures and places them (either separately or together) in one (or 
two) of the city outskirts squares of their capital. Figures cannot 
be placed in water squares at the start of the game.
4. Learn Starting Tech
Each player looks at the bottom of their civilization sheet to 
see what tech card they begin with, searches through their tech 
deck for the indicated card, and places it faceup in front of them, 
leaving plenty of room around it.
Note: The level of a player’s starting tech is irrelevant during 
setup. The tech is always placed in the bottom row of the player’s 
tech pyramid. If another player learns that tech through any 
means, the tech is still considered to be its normal level. (See 
“The Tech Pyramid” sidebar on this page and “Research” on 
page 20 for more information about tech cards.)
The Tech Pyramid
the pyramid (along with the player’s starting tech), level II techs 
form the second row, and so on, up to level V. While a player 
may learn any number of level I techs, each level II tech a player 
researches must be placed above two level I techs, as shown 
below. Similarly, each level III tech a player learns must be 
placed above two level II techs, etc. For further information, see 
“Research” on page 20.
Level I Techs 
(And Starting Tech)
Level II Techs
Legal Space 
for Level II 
Tech
Legal Space 
for Level III 
Tech
Over the course of the game, each civilization must advance 
socially and technologically, or find itself at a disadvantage to 
more sophisticated civilizations. These advances are represented 
by tech cards. 
Tech cards researched by a player are arranged in a pyramid 
shape as they are acquired. Level I techs form the bottom row of

5. Set Starting Governments
Each player stacks their government cards so that the Despotism/
Republic card is on top of the cards, with the Despotism side 
faceup. They then place the stack of cards on the indicated space 
on their civilization sheet.
Exceptions: Rome begins as a Republic, while Russia begins 
governed by Communism. They must each place the proper 
government card with the appropriate side faceup on top of their 
government cards instead of Despotism.
Note: The government cards have different governments on each 
side. If a player is having trouble finding their government, they 
should check the backs of their government cards!
6. Set Trade Dial
Each player counts all of the trade symbols ( @ ) in the eight 
squares of their capital’s city outskirts and then sets the trade 
dial (the large outer dial) on their civilization sheet to that total. 
For example, if a total of three trade symbols are in the outskirts 
of a player’s capital, the player sets their trade dial to “3.”
Note: Players collect trade again on the first turn of the game.
7. Set Economy Dial
Each player sets the economy dial (the small inner dial) on their 
civilization sheet to “0.”
Note: It is possible for some players to receive a coin from a map 
square or great person during setup. If this is the case, the player 
sets their economy dial to the number equal to the number of 
coins they have, instead.
8. Place Unbuilt Figures
Finally, each player places one city marker, their remaining 
five army figures, and their remaining scout figure by their 
civilization sheet to indicate that they are ready to be built. The 
other city marker is set aside until the player learns the Irrigation 
tech, at which point it is added to the available items as well.
Game Turn Overview
Civilization is played over a number of game turns, each of 
which is composed of five phases. These phases are performed in 
the order listed below. During each phase, starting with the first 
player and continuing clockwise around the table, every player 
has the opportunity to perform the actions associated with that 
phase. The phases of a turn are as follows:
Start of Turn
1.	
2.	
City Management
3.	
Movement
4.	
Research
5.	
1. Start of Turn
During this phase, the first player marker is passed one player 
to the left (except on the first turn). Then, the new first player 
performs any start of turn actions (usually found on wonders 
or culture event cards), builds any new cities (see page 13), and 
changes governments if desired (see page 14). After the first 
player completes their Start of Turn Phase, the player to the 
first player’s left begins their Start of Turn Phase. This process 
continues until all players have completed their Start of Turn 
Phase.
2. Trade
During this phase, each player collects trade from all of their 
cities, and then the players may negotiate with each other, 
trading a variety of game resources up to and including 
promises (see pages 14–15). This phase may be simultaneously 
performed by every player to save time.
3. City Management
In the City Management Phase, the first player takes one action 
with each of their cities. A city may produce an item (such as a 
building or unit card), devote itself to the arts to gain culture, or 
harvest a resource as its action (see pages 15–18). After the first 
player completes their City Management Phase, play passes to 
the left and the next player completes their City Management 
Phase, until all players have done so.
4. Movement
During the Movement Phase, the first player moves each of their 
figures (armies and scouts) up to a number of squares equal 
to the player’s travel speed. A civilization’s travel speed starts 
at two and is increased by certain tech cards, such as Sailing. 
Movement may cause battles to occur and facedown map tiles to 
be revealed (see page 19). After the first player completes their 
entire Movement Phase, play passes to the left and the next player 
completes their Movement Phase, until all players have done so.
5. Research
During the Research Phase, each player may learn one new tech 
by spending trade. They then add their newly learned tech to 
their tech pyramid (see page 20). Unlike most other phases, this 
phase is always performed simultaneously by every player.

Game Turn in Detail
This section explains each phase of the turn in detail.
1. Start of Turn
During this phase, players can expand their civilizations and 
change their civilizations’ form of government. The first player 
has the first opportunity to perform those actions during the 
Start of Turn Phase. After the first player has performed all the 
start of turn actions they wish to, play passes to the player’s left, 
and the next player may then perform all of their desired start of 
turn actions, until all players have had a chance to do so.
Building New Cities
“A great city is not to be confounded with a populous one.”
–Aristotle
To become a dominant civilization, a player’s civilization must 
expand geographically beyond its isolated, provincial origins. 
The Building New Cities action enables a civilization to do so. 
This action allows a player to construct a new city, which then 
lets them take more city actions each turn. 
During the Start of Turn Phase, if a player has fewer built cities 
than their maximum number of cities (two normally, three if the 
player has researched the Irrigation tech), they may build one 
or more new cities on the map, provided that doing so does not 
take the player above their maximum number of cities. To build 
a new city, the player must first have a scout figure (representing 
settlers) in each square that they wish to place a city marker in. 
In addition, that square must meet the following requirements:
The square cannot be a water square.
There must be eight revealed squares adjacent to the square 
(i.e., no cities may be placed on the edge of the map or next to 
a facedown map tile).
The square cannot be adjacent to a hut or village token (once 
the tokens are removed from the map, however, the squares 
they were in/adjacent to become fair game).
The square cannot be adjacent to an enemy figure (either 
army or scout). Friendly figures may be adjacent, or even in 
the same square as the scout.
The square must be at three squares or more away from 
any other city marker, including diagonals (i.e., the city’s 
outskirts must not overlap any other city’s outskirts).
If these requirements are met, the player sacrifices the scout, 
removing it from the board and returning it to their civilization 
sheet. Then, the player places a city marker on the space, 
unwalled side up. As mentioned earlier, this square is called the 
city center of the new city, and the eight squares adjacent to it 
are now the city outskirts.
Note: The city center never generates anything. Its icons are 
effectively erased as long as the city marker remains. Only 
squares in a city’s outskirts provide icons and resources.
If there are any friendly figures in the square where a city 
is being built besides the scout being sacrificed, the player 
immediately moves them to an adjacent square that they can 
legally end their movement in.
A city starts generating trade and production right away, so it 
produces trade during this turn’s Trade Phase (see page 14) and 
receives an action during the City Management Phase (see pages 
15–18).
City Placement Example: On the diagram below, the green 
squares are the only legal squares a new city can be built in. The 
red squares all mark sample illegal city placements. The reason 
each red square cannot have a city built in it is listed below.
 can’t have a city built in it because it is a water square.
 is illegal because it is adjacent to the village token to its 
right (but would be legal once the village token is removed 
from that square).
 is adjacent to a facedown map tile.
 is adjacent to the green enemy army below it.
 is less than three squares away from the city above it.

Changing Governments
“A great wind is blowing, and that gives you either imagination 
or a headache.”
	
–Catherine the Great
A civilization’s government reflects its character and its overall 
goals, and over time, a civilization may pass through many 
types of government as its character changes. In this game, 
government cards indicate what form of rulership a player’s 
civilization has. Governments are special cards unlocked 
(see page 21) through tech cards that allow a player to focus on 
certain strategies, usually to the detriment of other strategies. At 
the start of the game, players have only unlocked the Despotism 
government and begin with it in play. (Exception: Rome and 
Russia each have another government unlocked as well, which 
they start the game with as their form of government.)
Once a player unlocks a new form of government during the 
Research Phase as the result of learning a new tech, they may 
change to that government during the Start of Turn Phase of 
the following turn. To do so, they simply look through their 
government deck, locate the corresponding government card, 
and place it with the appropriate side faceup on top of their 
government deck. This change represents the fact that their 
civilization has switched over to the new form of government.
However, a player only has one opportunity to change directly to 
a new government. If the player wishes to change to a different 
government on any turn other than the turn immediately after 
unlocking that government, they must first change to the 
Anarchy transitional government. This special transitional 
government represents the upheaval occurring in the civilization 
and prevents the player from taking an action with their capital 
that turn. If a player’s civilization is in Anarchy, they may 
change to any other government they know during the Start of 
Turn Phase of the next turn after entering Anarchy.
Note: Any ongoing benefits from a government, such as the 
abilities on Republic or the coin on Feudalism, only last while a 
player’s civilization continues to be ruled by that government.
2. Trade
The following activities may be performed by the players during 
the Trade Phase: collecting trade and negotiating and trading. 
Players may all perform these actions simultaneously to save 
time.
Collecting Trade
During the Trade Phase, each player tallies up all of the trade 
symbols ( @ ) in the city outskirts of all of their cities and 
then increases the trade dial on their civilization sheet by that 
amount (up to a maximum of 27 trade). For example, if a player 
has two cities, one with four trade symbols in its outskirts and 
the other with eight trade symbols in its outskirts, that player 
increases their trade dial by 12 on their civilization sheet. Unlike 
production (see page 15), trade may be saved from turn to turn if 
not spent.
Note: When increasing or decreasing the trade dial, make sure to 
count the spaces marked “I,” “II,” “III,” “IV,” and “V.” Although 
labeled differently from the other values, these spaces must be 
counted as usual. So, for instance, a player who gains three trade 
while at “3” on their trade dial would advance their dial to the 
“I” space rather than the “7.”
Scout figures have the ability to gather any trade symbols in the 
square they inhabit each turn. For full details on this, see “Scout 
Gathering” on page 26.
figures (either scouts or armies) does not produce trade for the 
Trade ( @ ) vs. Production ( ! )
Pooled from all of a civilization’s cities.
Spent from only one city at a time.
Can be saved from turn to turn on the 
civilization’s trade dial.
Cannot be saved. Any production not spent is lost.
May be converted to production (see “Rushing 
Production with Trade” on page 15).
Cannot be converted to trade.
Trade ( @ ) represents commerce and scientific progress in a civilization. It is primarily spent to research new techs.
Production ( ! ) represents a city’s industry. It is used to produce figures, units, buildings, or wonders.
Trade and production are contrasted below.

Negotiating and Trading
“Politics is war without bloodshed, while war is politics with 
bloodshed.”
	
–Mao Zedong
It is often advantageous for civilizations to trade with each other 
and make alliances. Such trades might provide needed help at a 
critical moment for a civilization or a steady supply of a resource 
a civilization lacks. After trade is collected during the Trade 
Phase, players may negotiate and/or trade among themselves. 
Trades are fairly open, and may include an exchange of any or all 
of the following:
Non-binding Promises
Points of Trade
Unspent Culture Tokens (see page 17)
Resource Tokens (either from the market or from hut/village 
tokens)
Culture Event Cards (see page 18)
Note: If a player exceeds their culture hand size as a result of a 
trade, they must immediately discard down to their hand size.
Items not on the list above may not be given or traded to another 
player unless specifically allowed by a card or ability.
3. City Management
“Waste neither time nor money, but make the best use of both. 
Without industry and frugality, nothing will do, and with them 
everything.”
–Benjamin Franklin
Managing the industrial capacity of a civilization is a formidable 
task, and the City Management Phase is when players do so. 
During it, players must balance production, developing their 
culture, and gathering resources, or focus on some of them to 
the detriment of the others. The first player completes their 
City Management Phase first, then play passes to the player on 
their left, and so on, until all players have completed their City 
Management Phase. The following actions may be performed by 
the players during the City Management Phase.
City Actions
During the City Management Phase, each player takes one action 
with each of their cities. This action can be used for one and 
only one of the following three purposes each turn:
Produce a Figure, Unit, Building, or Wonder
A.	
Devote to the Arts
B.	
Harvest a Resource
C.	
A. Produce a Figure, Unit, Building, or Wonder
Cities often turn their industry towards the creation of things 
for the common good. When a city is used for production, it can 
produce any one item with a production cost equal to or less 
than the total number of production symbols ( ! ) contained in 
that city’s outskirts. The entire production cost for an item must 
come from the city producing it. Multiple cities cannot combine 
their production together to produce an item. Any excess 
production in the city is wasted; it cannot be saved for a future 
turn. For example, the city shown below has 5 ! symbols in its 
outskirts, so it may use its action to produce one item that costs 5 
! or less each turn.
Scout figures have the ability to gather any production symbols 
in the square they inhabit each turn. For full details on this, see 
“Scout Gathering” on page 26.
figures (either scouts or armies) does not generate production 
for the city’s owner. For full details on this, see “Blockades” on 
page 27.
Rushing Production with Trade
If a city does not have enough production to produce a desired 
item, the player may choose to spend some of their trade to make 
up the difference. For every 3 points a player reduces their 
trade dial by, the player may boost the production in one of 
their cities by 1 for a single turn. A player may do this as often 
as they like, so long as they can afford the trade to do so.
Producing Figures
At some point in their history, most civilizations are forced to 
muster armies, or, at the very least, send explorers and diplomats 
out into the world. A player may produce an army or scout figure 
with a city’s action, assuming they have at least one unbuilt 
figure of that type and meet the figure’s production cost. When a 
figure is produced, the player takes one of the figures from next 
to their civilization sheet and places it in the outskirts of the city 
that produced it. Figures may not be placed in a water square 
unless the player has learned a tech that allows their figures to 
end their movement in water (such as Sailing, Steam Power, 
or Flight). Figures may be placed in the same square as other 
friendly figures, but the total figures in a square cannot exceed 
that civilization’s stacking limit (see “Moving Groups and 
Stacking Limit” on page 19).

Armies
Army figures represent a civilization’s military forces and cost 
4 ! each. Army figures are the only figures that can fight battles 
and explore huts and villages. 
Scouts
Scout figures represent a civilization’s non-military forces and 
cost 6 ! each. Scouts may be used to build new cities (see page 
13) or to gather extra trade, production, or other resources for a 
city (see “Scout Gathering,” on page 26).
Scouts cannot enter squares containing huts or villages and are 
killed immediately any time they are attacked by an army, unless 
they have a friendly army escorting them.
Producing Units
War is and always has been one of the central preoccupations of 
civilization. To make war, a civilization needs armies, and these 
armies are built out of smaller forces, known as units. Unit cards 
represent specific units in an army. To produce a unit, a player 
checks to make sure that the city’s production is high enough to 
produce the chosen type of unit, and then the player draws a unit 
card at random from the appropriate deck and adds it to their 
standing forces pile.
Artillery, infantry, and mounted units are unlocked and able 
to be produced with a city’s action from the start of the game, 
but aircraft units require the player to know the Flight tech to 
produce them. If a unit deck is empty, units of that type are not 
available to be produced until some are killed and returned to the 
deck. If players go through the entire deck of a type of unit and 
arrive at units that have been returned faceup to the bottom of 
the deck, they must turn the deck over and shuffle it. 
To determine the production cost of a unit, the player looks at the 
market board to see how advanced their units of that type are. 
The more advanced the unit, the more expensive it is.
Rank 1 artillery, infantry, or mounted units cost 5 
Rank 2 artillery, infantry, or mounted units cost 7 
Rank 3 artillery, infantry, or mounted units cost 9 
Rank 4 artillery, infantry, or mounted units cost 11 
Aircraft units always cost 12 
! each (once unlocked).
Note: Because advanced units are more expensive, it is most cost 
effective to produce the units while they are cheaper and then 
upgrade them (see page 21).
Producing Buildings
A civilization’s buildings do more than simply house its citizens. 
They are the sites of a civilization’s industry, commerce, and 
learning – all of which are invaluable to the civilization’s 
success. In order to produce a building, the player must first 
know a tech that unlocks it. A building’s ! cost is indicated 
on the tech that unlocks it as well as on the market board. For 
example, the Pottery tech unlocks the Granary and indicates that 
the Granary’s ! cost is 5.
Like units, buildings are limited to the number of components 
available. Once all buildings of a certain type have been 
produced, no more can be produced until one of the existing 
buildings of that type is destroyed.
Once produced, a building must be placed in the outskirts of the 
city that produced it. However, buildings are restricted as to what 
type of terrain they can be built on. The type of terrain that a 
building is restricted to is indicated on the market board and is 
listed below. Normally, any number of a given type of building 
may be built in a city as long as suitable terrain exists.
Exception: Limited buildings (marked with a star on their 
markers) are restricted to one per city. See page 17 for further 
details.
Buildings
Terrains Allowed
Harbor
Trading Post
Workshop/Iron Mine
Library/University 
Granary/Aqueduct
Market/Bank 
Temple/Cathedral 
Barracks/Academy
Any Terrain Except Water 
(One per City)
Note: Buildings separated by a slash (“/”) in their name represent 
the basic and upgraded forms of the same building type and are 
printed on the front and back of the same markers. For more 
information on upgrading buildings, see page 22.
Once a building marker is placed on a square, the icons on the 
building completely replace any icons that the square had. 
Important Note: A water square with a Harbor placed in it is 
still considered to be water for the purposes of movement. 
So, if a player builds a Temple in a forest square, that square now 
contains two culture ( # ) icons and no production ( ! ) icons, 
despite the fact that the forest square previously contained two 
production ( ! ) icons.
Not every unit is created equal. Some units are a bit 
stronger, while others are a bit weaker. Units range from 
1 to 3 strength at rank 1 and increase their strength by 1 
per rank from there, up to their maximum at rank 4. The 
average strength of a unit at rank 1 is 2.
A Word on Units

Limited Buildings
Some buildings, marked with stars in their upper right corner, 
are limited. Although they are less restricted with respect to the 
types of terrain they may be placed in, they are more restricted 
in another way: a city can only have a total of one limited 
building in its outskirts. For example, if a player has already 
placed a Market in a city, that player cannot also place a Temple 
in that city, since both are limited buildings.
City Walls
Using the Masonry tech, a player may build City Walls around 
one or more of their cities. City Walls are treated like any 
other building, except that they are considered to be located 
in the city’s center. To indicate that a city has walls, simply turn 
the city marker over so that its walled side is faceup. Only one 
City Walls may be built per city.
City Walls are an excellent defensive measure for a player to 
build when it appears that one of their cities is in danger of being 
attacked. A wall provides +4 to a player’s strength total when 
defending that city and forces the attacker to play a unit first in 
the battle (see pages 23–24).
Producing Wonders
Some civilizations construct mighty wonders that survive in 
myth and legend long after their creators have died. The Hanging 
Gardens are one such wonder. These wonders provide powerful 
advantages to the players who build them. Any player may use 
a city action to produce one of the wonders that are faceup in 
the market. The corresponding wonder card lists the production 
cost of the wonder, along with a discounted cost that is available 
if the player knows the specific tech listed on the wonder. For 
example, the Colossus costs 15 ! normally, but only 10 ! if the 
player producing it knows the Metalworking tech.
Note: Remember that cities cannot combine production to 
produce an item. The entire cost for the wonder must be paid 
by a single city. Converting trade to production, using resource 
abilities, and using certain culture event cards can help a player 
increase the amount of production a city generates.
Once the wonder has been produced, the player places 
the wonder card faceup in front of them and places the 
corresponding wonder token in the outskirts of the city that 
produced the wonder. After building a wonder, a new wonder is 
drawn from the wonder deck and added to the market. Wonders, 
like limited buildings, may be placed on any terrain except for 
water and are restricted to one per city. A city may contain both 
a wonder and one limited building.
Important Note: Wonders are not buildings, and abilities 
that affect buildings do not affect wonders unless explicitly 
stated.
Obsoleting Wonders
Certain tech cards allow a player to obsolete a wonder, negating 
its special ability for the rest of the game. This process is 
explained in detail on page 27.
Replacing Buildings and Wonders
A player may choose to replace one of their existing buildings or 
wonders when placing a new building or wonder (it is possible 
for a wonder to replace a building and vice versa). The new 
building or wonder must be able to be legally placed in the 
square once the old building or wonder is removed. Players may 
not replace a building or wonder belonging to another player.
To replace a building or wonder, first the old building or wonder 
is removed from the board. If it is a building, it is returned to 
the market. If it is a wonder, the wonder marker and card are 
returned to the box and may not be rebuilt for the remainder of 
the game.
After the old building or wonder is removed, the new building or 
wonder is placed in the now-empty square.
B. Devote to the Arts
“The cry for peace will be a cry in the wilderness, so long as 
the spirit of nonviolence does not dominate millions of men and 
women.”
	
–Mahatma Gandhi
Many great civilizations make their mark on history through art, 
song, and literature rather than through industry or conquest. 
Consequently, the second type of action a player may take with a 
city is to devote the city to the arts. When a player does this, they 
collect one culture token from the stockpile, plus one additional 
culture token per culture icon ( # ) that appears in the outskirts 
of the city being devoted to the arts.
Scout figures have the ability to gather any culture symbols in 
the square they inhabit each turn. For full details on this, see 
“Scout Gathering” on page 26.
figures (either scouts or armies) does not produce culture for the 
Spending Culture
As a civilization creates ever greater and more wondrous pieces 
of art, the civilization becomes famous throughout the world. 
The amount of fame and cultural influence a civilization has 
is measured by the position of the civilization’s culture level 
marker on the culture track. This marker is advanced through the 
spending of culture tokens.
At any point during their City Management Phase, a player may 
choose to spend some or all of their culture tokens to advance 
their culture level marker up the culture track on the market 
board.
The cost to enter each space on the culture track is listed on the 
market board and varies depending on how far up the culture 
track the player’s marker has already advanced. The player 
pays the cost listed (for the space their culture level marker is 
entering, not the space that the marker is leaving), moves their 
culture level marker up the culture track by one space, and then 
claims the reward shown on the space their culture level marker 
has just entered, as described on the next page.
Higher up the track, advancing the culture level marker costs 
trade as well as culture. Both costs must be paid in full for each 
space advanced, with trade being spent from the player’s trade 
dial.

A player may advance as many spaces up the culture track each 
turn as they can afford, and multiple culture level markers may 
occupy the same space on the culture track.
The culture track consists of three different 
types of spaces, which are described below.
Culture Event Spaces
When a player moves their culture level marker 
into one of these spaces, they draw a culture 
event card from the culture event deck pictured 
on the space and add it to their hand in secret. 
If doing so causes the player to exceed their 
culture hand size (normally two, although it can 
be raised by tech), then they must immediately 
discard down to their hand size before any culture 
event cards can be played.
Great People Spaces
When a player moves their culture level marker into 
one of these spaces, they draw a great person marker 
at random from the facedown pile. They may then 
either immediately place the great person in a city or 
hold it in reserve, as described later on this page.
Culture Victory Space
When a player moves their culture level marker 
into this space, they immediately win the game with a culture 
victory.
Culture Event Cards
“Fortune, which has a great deal of power in other matters but 
especially in war, can bring about great changes in a situation 
through very slight forces.”
	
–Julius Caesar
Culture event cards are special action cards gained by advancing 
up the culture track. Each culture event card has a title (A), 
timing (B), and an effect (C).
Culture event cards are kept in secret in the player’s hand 
(although a player may look at their own culture event cards). At 
the start of the game, a player’s culture hand size is two, meaning 
that they can only hold two culture event cards in hand at once. 
This number may be increased by tech such as Pottery, however. 
As mentioned before, if a player exceeds their culture hand size, 
then they must immediately discard down to their hand size 
before any culture event cards may be played. Although players 
start with a culture hand size of two, they do not actually start 
with any culture event cards in hand; these cards must be gained 
by advancing up the culture track.
Culture event cards may only be played during the phase 
indicated on the card (B, as illustrated earlier). When playing a 
culture event card, the player reads the title and the effect and 
then performs the effect before discarding the culture event card.
Discarded culture event cards are placed faceup on the bottom of 
the appropriate deck. When a deck runs out, it is turned over and 
shuffled, creating a new culture event deck.
Great People
“The true test of civilization is, not the census, nor the size of 
the cities, nor the crops – no, but the kind of man the country 
turns out.”
	
–Ralph Waldo Emerson
Certain people rise to prominence within their civilizations. 
These great people steer the course of nations and can change 
history. Mechanically, great people markers work similarly 
to building markers. Once gained, they may be immediately 
placed in the outskirts of any city belonging to the player. Great 
people can be placed on any terrain except water, and if placed 
on a building or wonder, that building or wonder is replaced, as 
described on page 17.
However, great people have one significant advantage over 
buildings. If they are replaced (by having a building, wonder, 
or another great person placed in their square), they are held in 
reserve and returned to the player’s civilization sheet instead of 
being discarded. During the Start of Turn Phase of any turn, a 
player may place any great people on their civilization sheet back 
on the map in the outskirts of any of their cities. Great people 
have no effect when not on the map.
C. Harvest Resources
Valuable resources are important for a civilization’s growth. 
Without adequate resources, a civilization gradually loses its 
ability to function effectively and is swept aside by their better 
supplied neighbors. Therefore, the third type of action a city may 
take is harvesting a resource from the map. In order to take this 
action, the city must have a square with that resource’s icon in its 
outskirts. If that condition is met, the player takes one resource 
token of the given type from the market board and places it on 
their civilization sheet. Note that a player cannot harvest a given 
resource if the market is out of that type of resource, and a city 
may only harvest one resource per action.
For example, if a city contains the icons for two different 
resources (silk and iron) in its outskirts, then its city action 
may be used to harvest either a silk or an iron token, assuming 
any remain. Similarly, if there are two silk icons in the city’s 
outskirts, the player still only harvests one silk icon.
Resources are used to power resource abilities found on tech 
cards. Each time a player wants to use a resource ability, they 
must pay its cost by spending the resource (or resources) pictured 
next to the ability. For full details, see page 22.
Scout figures have the ability to allow the harvesting of 
resources in the square they inhabit each turn. For full details on 
this, see “Scout Gathering” on page 26.
figures (either scouts or armies) cannot be harvested from by the 

4. Movement
“We shall not cease from exploration 
And the end of all our exploring 
Will be to arrive where we started 
And know the place for the first time.”
	
–T. S. Eliot
Warriors and explorers have surveyed their surroundings for 
as long as mankind has existed, from the earliest tribesman to 
today’s modern traveler. Players’ armies and scouts have their 
chance to travel the world during the Movement Phase. During 
this phase, each player, in turn, may move all of their figures, 
one at a time. Each figure may move up to a number of squares 
equal to its civilization’s travel speed. A civilization’s travel 
speed starts at two, but may be increased by learning tech such 
as Horseback Riding. Figures cannot move diagonally. Once a 
figure has begun its move, it must complete its move before any 
other figure may move.
Moving Groups and Stacking Limit
A player may move several of their figures as a group if they 
all begin the Movement Phase in the same square. Doing so 
can offer extra strength in battle (see page 23) or allow armies 
to protect scouts (see page 20). Figures that begin in the same 
square are not required to move together.
However, a civilization may never have more figures (armies and 
scouts combined) in a single square on the map than its stacking 
limit. Like travel speed, a civilization’s stacking limit starts at 
two, but may be increased by learning tech such as Masonry.
Crossing Water
At the start of the game, figures cannot enter water squares. 
However, acquiring certain techs can allow a civilization’s 
figures to do so. The Navigation tech allows a player’s figures to 
cross water but not end their movement in a water square. This 
means that the player may not make any move that would result 
in a figure ending its move in a water square.
Certain higher-level tech cards, such as Sailing, allow a player’s 
figures to both move through and end their movement on water 
squares. Once a player knows one of these techs, they may 
ignore water when moving and may place figures on water 
squares when producing the figures.
Unexplored Map Tiles
While a map tile remains facedown, figures cannot move onto or 
across it for any reason, nor can the effects of any tech or culture 
event card cross or affect any square on an unexplored map tile. 
Effectively, the squares on an unexplored tile do not exist.
Discovering Unexplored Map Tiles
A player may discover a facedown map tile by spending one 
square of movement when one of their figures is orthogonally 
adjacent to the facedown tile. Instead of the figure moving for 
that square of movement, the map tile is turned faceup. It is 
then oriented so that the arrow at the bottom of the tile points 
away from the tile that the figure is on.
The player then looks at the map tile for hut and village icons. 
One random hut marker is drawn and placed facedown, without 
looking at it, on each square with a hut icon on the map tile. 
In addition, one random village marker is drawn and placed 
facedown, without looking at it, on each square with a village 
icon on it on the map tile.
For example, the red army figure below spends one square of 
movement to discover the facedown tile to its right.
The facedown tile is flipped faceup and oriented so that the 
white arrow on its edge points away from the tile that the red 
army figure is on.
After the tile is flipped over, the player draws a hut and a village 
token and, without looking at their other side, places them 
facedown on the indicated squares on the tile.

The diagram below shows how the white arrow should appear 
when exploring in any of the four directions from the center tile.
Exploring Huts and Villages
Scout figures cannot enter a square containing a hut or village 
marker. An army figure that enters a square containing a hut 
or village marker must immediately end its movement and is 
considered to be exploring the hut or village.
If the marker is a hut, it is peacefully absorbed by the invading 
civilization. The player takes the hut marker, looks at it, and then 
places it facedown on their civilization sheet. Hut markers have 
resources printed on their backs and may be spent like resource 
tokens taken from the market, except that they are returned to 
the box after being spent, rather than being added to the market.
If the marker is a village, it attempts to repel the invading 
civilization. The player to the left of the invading player 
becomes the “barbarian player” and draws one artillery, one 
infantry, and one mounted unit from the respective decks (if 
one or more of the decks are depleted, make up the difference 
from one of the other decks – barbarian player’s choice). These 
three units are barbarians and must be kept separate from 
the barbarian player’s own units. A battle then takes place 
between the barbarian player (using only the barbarian units) 
and the invading player. The barbarian player is the defender, 
and barbarian units are always rank 1 (Archer, Spearman, or 
Horseman). For full details on resolving battles, see “Combat” 
on page 23.
After the battle, if the invading player won, that 
player takes the village marker and looks at it. If it 
shows a great person icon, the player discards the 
village marker and then gains a random great person. 
Otherwise, the village marker shows a resource and 
is placed facedown on the player’s civilization sheet, 
where it acts like a hut marker, as explained above.
If the invading player loses the battle, the army figure that 
entered the square (or the entire group of figures, if a group 
of figures entered) is killed and is returned to the player’s 
civilization sheet. However, unlike losing a battle to another 
player, there is no additional penalty for the loss.
Tip: Attacking barbarians without some sort of advantage 
beyond a player’s starting units is a risky proposition. It’s 
advisable for players to build extra units, upgrade their units, 
attack with a group of army figures, or go in with an ace up their 
sleeve (such as the Metalworking tech and an iron token).
Enemy Figures
Scouts cannot enter a square containing enemy figures. If 
an army enters a square containing any enemy figures, its 
movement immediately ends. If the square contains only enemy 
scouts, the scouts are immediately killed and the attacking player 
collects loot as though they had won a battle (see page 25). If 
the square contains at least one enemy army, a battle occurs (see 
page 23). If the square contains a mix of both enemy armies and 
scouts, a battle occurs, but if the losing side in the battle has any 
scouts in the square, they are killed along with the armies; loot is 
then collected as normal.
Example: An army enters a square containing two armies and 
a scout. A battle occurs, with the attacking player emerging 
triumphant. The two armies and the scout are all killed, and the 
attacker receives loot for killing figures.
Friendly and Enemy Cities
A player may move their figures through their own city centers, 
but they may not end any figure’s movement in their city center. 
Scouts may enter enemy city outskirts, but they cannot enter 
enemy city centers. Armies may enter enemy city outskirts. 
They may also enter an enemy city center, but doing so 
immediately results in an attack on the city (see page 23).
5. Research
“All religions, arts and sciences are branches of the same tree. 
All these aspirations are directed toward ennobling man’s life, 
lifting it from the sphere of mere physical existence and leading 
the individual towards freedom.”
	
–Albert Einstein
As new technologies are discovered by a civilization, new 
avenues and opportunities open up as well. From Pottery to 
Space Flight, these advances have the potential to profoundly 
change civilizations. During the Research Phase, players may 
acquire these technologies, which are represented by tech cards. 
In this phase, each player may choose to research one tech card. 
Each tech card has a name (A), an icon (B), a level (C), and one 
to three abilities (D).
To research a tech, a player must meet the minimum trade 
cost for the tech and have a legal space in their civilization’s 
tech pyramid (see next page). If they meet both requirements, 
the player places the chosen tech card facedown in their tech 
pyramid. Once all players have chosen their tech cards for the 
turn, all researched tech cards are revealed simultaneously.
Tech learned by a player only applies to that player. Just because 
Rome learns Engineering doesn’t mean that Egypt learns it 
as well. Each player must research tech cards for their tech 
pyramids individually.
Great 
Person 
Village

Trade Cost
A player must have a certain minimum amount of trade on 
their trade dial in order to research a tech, depending on the 
tech’s level. A player needs at least 6 trade to research a level I 
tech. This threshold is indicated on the players’ trade dials by 
replacing the number 6 with a “I” to represent tech level I. It 
costs an additional 5 trade for each level thereafter (11 for level 
II, 16 for level III, 21 for level IV, and 26 for level V). These 
higher tech levels are marked on the trade dial in the same way.
Researching a tech spends all of the player’s remaining trade, 
no matter how much trade they had before researching. The 
only exception to this rule is for players who possess coins. 
Coins allow a player to retain 1 trade after researching for 
each coin the player possesses. Having coins never increases a 
player’s current trade; it only allows a player to retain trade they 
already have. For a full explanation of coins, see page 26.
Example 1: A player wishes to research Sailing, a level II tech. 
Looking at the trade dial, they see that level II techs require at 
least 11 trade. Fortunately, the player has 18 trade (and a legal 
space on their tech pyramid), so they reduce their trade to 0 and 
learn Sailing.
Example 2: If the player from example 1 possessed four coins, 
they would retain 4 trade after learning Sailing.
The Tech Pyramid
The second requirement a player must meet to learn a new 
tech is to have a legal space in their tech pyramid to place the 
new tech. Level I tech cards may always be legally placed in a 
player’s tech pyramid, and indeed, they form the bottom row 
of the pyramid. However, when a player learns a level II tech, 
it must be placed above two level I tech cards already in their 
pyramid. Similarly, level III tech cards must be placed above 
two level II tech cards in their pyramid, and so on. Lower-level 
tech cards represent the foundation for higher-level techs. As 
a player’s tech pyramid grows, it resembles a real pyramid, as 
shown below and in the “Tech Pyramid” sidebar on page 11.
Level III
Level IV
Level V
Level II
Level I
The highest level tech is Space Flight, at level V. If a player 
learns this tech, they immediately win the game with a tech 
victory. It is worth noting that the fewest level I tech cards a 
player must know to reach level V is five (and a minimum of 15 
techs overall is required for a tech victory, see page 22).
Exception: A civilization’s starting tech is always placed in the 
bottom row of its tech pyramid regardless of its actual level.
Tech Card Abilities
Each tech that a player learns gives them certain benefits, which 
could be to unlock certain items for production, upgrade existing 
items or abilities, or provide new abilities. These benefits of tech 
cards are explained in more detail in the next few sections.
Unlocking Units, Buildings, and Governments
When a player learns a tech showing a new unit type, building, 
or government, they immediately gain the ability to produce that 
unit or building or to change to that government. This is known 
as unlocking the item. At the start of the game, all figures, the 
three basic unit types (artillery, infantry, and mounted), and the 
Despotism government are unlocked. Everything else must be 
unlocked through researching tech.
Example: The Code of Laws tech (shown below) unlocks the 
Trading Post building (lower-right of the card) and the Republic 
government (upper-right), allowing the player to produce Trading 
Posts and change to a Republic government.
Upgrading Units
When a player learns a tech with a unit upgrade on it, they check 
to see if they already know a better upgrade for that unit type. 
If not, they find the military tech marker for their improved unit 
type and place it below the appropriate unit deck on the market 
board to show that their units of that type have been upgraded 
(or flip the current marker over if the new rank is on the back).
Note: Rank 2 is on the back of each rank 1 military tech marker, 
and rank 3 and rank 4 (marked with a star) are the front and back 
of a second military tech marker. 
For example, when a player learns Chivalry, they check to see 
if their mounted unit military tech marker is already better 
than rank 2 (indicated by the two stripes). If not, they flip their 
mounted military tech marker to the rank 2 side.
All units of that type that the player has already produced are 
automatically upgraded immediately. However, once a player 
has upgraded a unit, they must now pay the new, higher cost to 
produce new units of that type.
Continuing the example above, now that the player’s mounted 
units are Knights, it costs 7 ! instead of 5 ! to produce new 
mounted units, but any mounted units the player already has are 
automatically upgraded to Knights.

Upgrading Buildings
Some buildings have a basic and an upgraded form, such as the 
Granary (basic) and the Aqueduct (upgraded). These buildings 
are printed on the front and back of the same markers. Looking 
at the market board, upgraded buildings have an arrow next to 
their names. When a player learns a tech unlocking an upgraded 
building, they immediately flip over any of the corresponding 
basic buildings that they’ve already produced in their cities. 
So, for example, when a player learns Engineering, which 
unlocks Aqueducts, they flip over any Granaries they’ve already 
produced, immediately upgrading them to Aqueducts.
However, as with upgrading units, once a player has unlocked 
the upgraded version of a building, they can no longer produce 
the basic version of the building and must now produce the new, 
higher-cost building.
Continuing the example above, once a player learns Engineering, 
they can no longer produce Granaries for 5 ! , but must now 
produce the more expensive Aqueducts for 8 ! .
Note: A player does not need to know the tech that unlocks the 
basic form of a building in order to learn the tech that unlocks 
the upgraded form of that building.
Resource Abilities
Many tech cards, such as Currency, have abilities on them that 
require the player to spend resource tokens to use the abilities. 
These abilities are called resource abilities. Each resource 
ability has (A) a picture of the resource or resources required to 
use it (with a question mark meaning any resource of the player’s 
choice), (B) the phase in which the ability may be used, and (C)
the actual ability itself.
For example, Currency (shown above) allows a player to spend 
one incense resource token to gain three culture tokens during 
the player’s City Management Phase.
Each given resource ability may only be used once per 
turn, regardless of how many resource tokens a player has. 
However, if a player knows several techs with similar resource 
abilities (such as Currency and Chivalry), then each may be used 
once per turn.
Other Abilities
Other abilities that can be granted by tech cards include 
improved traits such as travel speed (Horseback Riding) or 
maximum number of armies (Masonry) and constant abilities 
such as the ability to split a city’s production to produce two 
items (Engineering). A key to all of the icons found on tech cards 
can be found on the back cover of this rulebook.
Winning the Game
As briefly mentioned earlier, there are four ways to win Sid 
Meier’s Civilization: The Board Game. Each method requires a 
civilization to focus on a different aspect of the game to achieve 
greatness.
Culture Victory
A culture victory is attained by spending enough culture and 
trade to advance to the end of the culture track on the market 
board (see page 17–18). As soon as a player advances to the space 
marked “Culture Victory,” that player wins the game.
A player wishing to win with a culture victory should 
concentrate on adding culture icons to their cities and devoting 
their cities to the arts. Later on, the player will also need to 
make sure their cities are producing enough trade as well. Techs 
that unlock culture-producing buildings (such as Theology) or 
which have incense-powered abilities (such as Currency) are 
most useful for this type of victory. Certain culture-producing 
wonders, such as Stonehenge, are also helpful.
Tech Victory
A tech victory is achieved upon researching the Space Flight 
tech, which is the only level 5 tech in the game. It takes a 
minimum of five level 1 techs, four level 2 techs, three level 3 
techs, and two level 4 techs to research Space Flight, meaning 
that a tech victory requires a minimum of 15 techs.
A player wishing to win with a tech victory should concentrate 
on adding trade icons to their cities and finding ways to 
research more than once a turn (such as through culture event 
cards). Techs that unlock trade-producing buildings (such as 
Code of Laws) or which have trade-producing abilities (such 
as Horseback Riding) are most useful for this type of victory. 
Certain wonders that help research, such as the Statue of Liberty, 
are also useful.
Economic Victory
An economic victory is completed by accumulating 15 coins on 
the player’s economic dial. Coins are either gained from squares 
on the map and building (see “Coins on the Map,” page 26) or 
from techs (see “Coin Tokens” on page 26).
A player wishing to win with an economic victory should dabble 
in a variety of different aspects of the game, including trade, 
resources, combat, and culture. While some coins can be gained 
from buildings (such as Banks), a number of the player’s coins 
will have to come from doing different tasks, as stated on certain 
techs. Pottery, Code of Laws, Printing Press, and Democracy all 
allow a player to gain coins by completing particular tasks. In 
addition, certain wonders, such as the Panama Canal, are helpful 
in accumulating coins.

Military Victory
A military victory is achieved by conquering another player’s 
capital city (see “Combat,” below). This requires the player to 
build up their military forces and technology.
A player wishing to win with a military victory should increase 
their military power. This includes building a supply of units and 
upgrading them with techs (such as Gunpowder), raising their 
figure stacking limit (such as with Biology), and accumulating 
other strength bonuses for combat (such as from Academies). 
Military players should beware of culture events and may find 
certain wonders such as Himeji Samurai Castle to be helpful.
Other Rules
This section contains additional rules to the game.
Combat
“The great questions of the day will not be settled by means of 
speeches and majority decisions…but by iron and blood.”
	
–Otto von Bismarck
Battle is the struggle of one civilization against another 
for dominance. When an army figure moves into a square 
containing a village marker, an enemy army figure, or an 
enemy city, a battle takes place. The player whose army figure 
is entering the square is the attacker, while the player whose 
figure or city is being attacked is the defender. If the attacker 
is attacking a village, the player to the attacker’s left becomes 
the defender. Generally, the defender is placed at a slight 
disadvantage in a battle, since the element of surprise is on the 
attacker’s side. When a battle begins, the attacker and defender 
take the following steps:
1. Assembling the Battle Force
The attacker and defender each shuffle their standing forces and 
draw a number of unit cards equal to their battle hand size at 
random. A player’s battle hand size starts at three and may be 
increased in the following ways:
+2 hand size for each friendly army figure in the square 
beyond the first (remember that players cannot exceed their 
civilization’s stacking limit) 
+1 hand size if governed by 
Fundamentalism
+3 hand size if defending a city or capital.
A unit card has four different sides, as shown below. Each side 
has a unit name (A), military rank (B), strength value (C), trump 
symbol (D), and unit type (E).
When using a unit card in battle, a player only uses the side 
corresponding to the rank of their matching military tech 
marker. For instance, if the player’s mounted military tech 
marker is set to rank 2 (the side with two stripes), that player 
only pays attention to the rank 2 side of their mounted units – in 
this case, the “Knight” side. For example, the unit below would 
have a strength of 2:
Note: The first three ranks of military tech are represented with 
one, two, or three stripes, while the fourth rank is represented by 
a star.
After a player draws their battle force, they may wish to turn 
their cards so that each card is oriented such that the top edge is 
the one they are using, as indicated by the unit’s rank. A player’s 
battle force cards are held in hand and kept secret from their 
opponent until played during battle.
Tip 1: A player’s battle hand size is one of the best indicators of 
strength in battle, but only if the player actually has enough units 
in their standing forces to make use of it. Players should always 
try to keep their number of units in their standing forces at or 
above their expected battle hand size.
Tip 2: Just as having too few units can be dangerous, it can also 
be bad to have too many units. Since a player’s battle force is 
selected at random from their standing forces, having too many 
units reduces the player’s chances of drawing the units they 
really want in battle.
2. Calculating Combat Bonuses
Next, the players look to see if either side has any combat 
bonuses. If so, the player with the highest combat bonus takes 
the combat bonus card and places it in front of them, turned so 
that it is set to their combat bonus minus their opponent’s combat 
bonus. For instance, if one player has a bonus of +12 and the 
other player has a bonus of +8, the first player receives a combat 
bonus card turned to its +4 side. The available combat bonuses 
are as follows:
+2 for every Barracks the player has built
+4 for every Academy the player has built
+4 for every Great General the player has on the map
+6 if defending a non-capital city
+12 if defending a capital city
+4 if defending a walled capital or non-capital city (stacks 
with either of the two other city bonuses). 
Tip: Every +4 in combat bonuses a player has is equivalent to 
approximately one unit. Although unit strength varies over the 
course of the game, this is an easy and reasonably accurate rule 
of thumb for players to remember.

3. Engaging in Battle
Now, starting with the defender, then alternating back and forth, 
each player must play a unit from their battle force faceup on the 
table between them until both players have played all of the units 
in their battle forces.
Exception: If the attacker is attacking a walled city, the attacker 
must play the first unit rather than the defender.
When a player plays the first unit in battle, this creates what is 
called the first front. After that, each time a player plays a unit, 
they must either start a new front or attack an existing enemy 
front (if any exist to attack).
Starting a New Front
Starting a new front is simply playing a unit without attacking 
another unit. The newly played unit remains in play until killed 
or until the end of the battle. There can never be more than one 
unit in a front.
Example 1: Below, player A has a strength 3 mounted unit 
in play. Player B, not wanting to attack it, plays a strength 2 
mounted unit below it in a new front. Since there are no other 
units in either front, no attacks occur.
Attacking an Enemy Front
To attack an existing front, the player places their unit card in 
front of a faceup enemy unit already played in this battle. The 
two unit cards then immediately attack each other. Each unit 
card deals a number of wounds equal to its strength to the 
other unit. Any unit that suffers wounds equal to its strength 
is immediately killed and returned faceup to the bottom of the 
unit deck it was originally acquired from. If a unit survives 
the attack, wound tokens are placed on the card to indicate the 
damage. All wounds go away at the end of the battle.
Example 2: This time, player B’s strength 2 unit is in play first. 
Player A, having a strength 3 unit in hand, plays their unit into 
the strength 2 unit’s front, attacking it. The strength 3 unit 
deals three wounds to the weaker unit, killing it, and suffers 
two wounds in return. This damage is not enough to kill the 
strength 3 unit, so two wound tokens are placed on it to record 
the damage. Should this unit survive until the end of the battle, it 
will then fully heal.
Even if a unit was previously wounded, it still inflicts its full 
strength in wounds to any unit that attacks it.
Example 3: After killing the strength 2 unit in example 3, player 
A’s wounded strength 3 unit is attacked by another strength 3 unit 
played by player B. Although it still has two wounds, player A’s 
unit still deals its full damage to player B’s unit. In this instance, 
both units are killed, since each deals three wounds to the other.
One of the key military concepts in Sid Meier’s 
Civilization: The Board Game is the difference between 
armies and units.
Armies are plastic figures that move around the map, 
indicating the presence of a player’s military forces. 
However, without units, armies have no strength and the 
player is extremely unlikely to win a battle.
Units are square cards that are used to resolve battles. 
Units represent the strength of a player’s military forces. 
However, units have no physical location on the map and 
cannot be used outside a player’s cities without an army.
Thus, a player needs both armies and units to succeed at a 
military victory.
Armies vs. Units

Trumping Units
Not all unit types are equally capable against all other unit 
types. In fact, there is a rock-paper-scissors relationship between 
artillery, infantry, and mounted units, as shown below:
This relationship is shown on the unit cards by their trump 
symbols. For example, infantry units are particularly effective 
against mounted units (e.g., pikemen versus knights), so infantry 
units have the mounted unit symbol as their trump symbol. 
When a unit attacks or is attacked by a unit that it has pictured 
on its card as a trump symbol, it trumps that unit, dealing its 
damage before the other unit can do so. If this damage kills the 
trumped unit, the trumped unit deals no damage back to the unit 
trumping it, since it is already dead before it can deal its damage.
Example 4: In example 3, previously, if player B’s attacking 
strength 3 unit was an infantry unit, it would trump player A’s 
wounded unit. Thus, player B’s unit would deal its 3 wounds 
first, killing the wounded unit before it could attack back, and 
would survive the attack without suffering a single wound.
TRUMP
Tip: Obviously, a player whose units are trumped frequently 
during a battle is at a serious disadvantage. Players should 
observe what units other players are producing and react 
accordingly.
Battle Abilities
Some tech cards have resource abilities that are used during 
battle. These abilities are always used before or after attacking 
an enemy front, never during – even if some of their effects may 
last through an attack.
Aircraft Units
If a player learns the Flight tech, they become capable of 
producing aircraft units. Aircraft units are very powerful units 
(their strength ranges from 5 to 7) that cannot trump or be 
trumped by any unit. This means that aircraft units reliably deal 
their damage, no matter what enemies they are faced with.
4. Resolving the Battle
After both players have played all of their battle forces, the battle 
is over. First, all wounds are removed from the surviving units in 
the battle. Then, each player tallies up the strength of all of their 
surviving units, adding in the value of the combat bonus card (if 
they have it). The player with the highest total wins the battle, 
with ties going to the defender.
Winner’s Figure Losses
The winner then loses one army figure in the square for every 
two units of theirs that were killed in the battle. A player’s last 
army figure in the square can never be lost this way.
Winner’s Loot
The winner of the battle receives a reward depending on the 
loser’s circumstances in the battle.
If the loser had one or more figures in the square:
The loser’s figures in that square are all killed and are removed 
from the board (although they may be built again later). The 
winner may then take their choice of one of the following from 
the loser:
Up to three points of trade from the loser’s trade dial
Up to three culture tokens
Any one resource token (facedown hut and village tokens 
may be chosen, but the winner does not get to see what they 
are before choosing).
If the loser was defending one of their non-capital cities:
The loser’s city is destroyed. Its city marker is returned to its 
owner’s civilization sheet. Any buildings in its outskirts are 
returned to the market, and any wonders or great people in its 
outskirts are returned to the box and removed from the game. 
The winner’s figures remain in the square where the city center 
was, and the winner then gets to do one of the following:
Learn one of the loser’s known techs that the winner does not 
know, without having to pay the trade cost. The winner must 
have a legal spot in their tech pyramid to do so (see page 21).
Steal one of the loser’s culture event cards. The winner only 
gets to look at the card backs when choosing.
Steal up to any two resource tokens from the loser. Facedown 
hut and village tokens may be chosen, but the winner does 
not get to see what they are before choosing.
If the loser was defending their capital city:
The winner immediately wins the game with a military 
victory.
Tip: Since the first player to conquer a capital city wins the game, 
players must be careful not to weaken their opponents too much 
when there are other hostile armies near that player’s capital.
INFANTRY
MOUNTED
ARTILLERY

Aftermath
If the game isn’t over, any surviving units (whether owned by the 
winner or the loser) are then returned to their owner’s standing 
forces. Any killed units are placed faceup on the bottom of their 
respective unit decks.
Tip: Winning a battle against a powerful defender such as a 
capital city or a strong military player requires a mix of increases 
to the player’s battle hand size, upgrades to the player’s units, 
combat bonuses, and enough unit cards to fill up their hand. 
However, the rewards for successful attacks are very significant, 
and the outcome of the entire game can be turned around by a 
canny military maneuver.
Coins and Economic Power
“Don’t tell me where your priorities are. Show me where you 
spend your money and I’ll tell you what they are.”
–James W. Frick
Although a leader may have great ambitions for their 
civilization, ultimately very little can be accomplished without 
the industry of the people working with the bounty of the land to 
create a healthy economy. A player may acquire economic power 
in the form of coins – either coins printed on building markers 
and map tiles, or coin tokens placed on certain tech cards (such 
as Code of Laws) as a reward for accomplishing particular tasks.
When a player gains a coin, they advance their economy dial. 
Should the player later lose the coin, their economy dial must be 
reduced accordingly.
Coins have two primary effects. First, when a player researches 
a tech, they may keep one trade for every coin they have. So, for 
instance, a player with five coins would be left with five trade 
after researching a tech. Coins do not allow a player to keep 
trade after any event other than researching a tech. Therefore, 
a player can still have their trade reduced below their number 
of coins when spending trade to rush production or when trade 
is taken after the loss of a battle. It should be noted that having 
coins never increases a player’s current trade – it merely allows 
the player to retain the trade they have already accumulated.
The second major effect that coins have is that a player who 
accumulates 15 coins immediately wins the game with an 
economic victory (see “Winning the Game” on page 22).
Other abilities may be granted to a player by certain tech cards, 
such as Computers, based on the number of coins they have 
accumulated.
Coins on the Map
Coins gained from squares on the map – whether from a natural 
gold deposit in the mountains or from a building placed in a 
square – are only kept as long as the player retains control of the 
square (i.e., the square is contained in the outskirts of one of the 
player’s cities or one of the player’s scouts remains in the square 
to gather from it). If an enemy figure blockades the square 
containing the coin, it is lost while the enemy figure remains 
there (see page 27). Similarly, if a building granting a coin to a 
player is destroyed, the coin is lost.
Coin Tokens
Coin tokens placed on a tech card as a reward for accomplishing 
a certain task are treated just like coins on the map, except that 
there is a maximum number of times a given task will provide a 
coin token. Coin tokens advance the economy dial when gained 
and cannot be lost.
Scout Gathering
Scouts are of vital importance to a player’s civilization. One of 
their critical roles is to send home trade, production, culture, 
coins, and resources from distant locations. Each turn, beginning 
the turn after it was placed on the map, a scout gathers the 
contents of the square it occupies. The player declares which of 
their cities the scout is “sending” the square to during the Start 
of Turn Phase, and all of the icons in that square (including 
trade, production, culture, coins, and resources) are then 
considered to be in that city’s outskirts for the rest of the turn. 
Consequently, the city benefits from any trade, production, or 
other icons in the square for the turn.
The city above contains the following icons:
Thus, it adds 3 @ to the red player’s trade dial each turn during 
the Trade Phase. During City Management, its action may be 
used to do one of the following three things:
Produce an item that costs 5 
! or less
Generate 1 
# (1 for the city, plus 0 additional # symbols)
Harvest either a silk or an incense resource token.
For a full explanation of how that was determined, see 
“Collecting Trade” on page 14, and “City Management” on 
pages 15–18.

Example 1: A scout in a forest sends its square to the 
previously discussed city, increasing the city’s production by 
two for the turn.
Example 2: A scout in a natural wonder sends the square to 
the previously discussed city. That turn, the city devotes itself 
to culture. Because the city gains the symbols of the square the 
scout is in, the city produces one more culture token than normal 
(two total).
Note that, in this example, although the city still receives the two 
extra production from the forest, it doesn’t matter because the 
city devotes itself to the arts for its action rather than production.
Example 3: A scout in a square with a wheat resource icon sends 
the square to the previously discussed city. That turn, that city 
harvests a resource and may choose to harvest a wheat, silk, or 
incense resource since the scout’s space is considered part of the 
city’s outskirts.
Blockades
Enemy forces, properly placed, can prevent a city from obtaining 
some of the supplies it is used to obtaining. Thus, a square in a 
city’s outskirts that contains one or more enemy figures (either 
scouts or armies) does not generate production, trade, culture, 
coins, or resources for the city’s owner. A square may be 
blockaded even if it contains a building or a great person.
Wonders are not immune to blockades either. While an enemy 
figure remains in the same square as a wonder’s marker, the 
special ability on the wonder’s card cannot be used and the 
culture produced by its marker cannot be collected.
Buildings, wonders, great people, and scouts cannot be placed 
in a blockaded square after being produced. Army figures may 
be placed in a blockaded square, but doing so immediately 
results in a battle, with the blockading player as the defender (see 
“Combat” on page 23).
A scout may gather icons in a blockaded square in the outskirts 
of an enemy city. In this case, the square is considered to be a 
part of the city the scout is sending it to for the turn rather than 
the city being blockaded.
Example: An enemy scout is in a forest in the outskirts of the 
city discussed earlier and sends the square to one of the scout’s 
own cities. For that turn, the production of the scout’s city is 
increased by two and the production of the city being blockaded 
is reduced by two.
Obsoleting Wonders
“My name is Ozymandias, King of Kings: 
Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!”
–Ozymandias, Percy Bysshe Shelley
Certain techs (Monarchy and Gunpowder) allow a player to 
obsolete a wonder. When a wonder is obsoleted, turn its wonder 
card facedown, but leave its wonder marker on the map. The 
wonder’s special ability is negated and cannot be used for the 
rest of the game. However, the wonder marker still produces 
culture when the city it is in is devoted to the arts.

Glossary of Terms
Army: A plastic figure representing a player’s military forces.
Attacker: In battle, the side that began the combat by moving.
Barbarians: Uncivilized tribes found in villages. Barbarians 
must be defeated to claim the resources from a village. 
Barbarians are always rank 1 and are controlled by the player to 
the active player’s left.
Battle Force: Unit cards drawn by a player at the start of a 
battle.
Battle Hand Size: The number of unit cards a player draws from 
their standing forces at the start of battle.
Blockade: When a square in a city’s outskirts contains an enemy 
figure. The presence of the enemy figure prevents the use of that 
square by the city it is part of the outskirts of.
Capital: A player’s starting city.
City Center: The center square of a city. It produces nothing.
City Outskirts: The eight squares surrounding a city center. 
These squares generate the city’s trade, production, culture, etc.
Coin: Measure of a civilization’s economic prosperity. Makes a 
civilization generate trade (and production, with the proper tech) 
more efficiently. 
Culture: Measure of a civilization’s artistic and philosophic 
progress. Used primarily to advance up the culture track.
Culture Hand Size: The maximum number of culture events a 
player may have in hand at once.
Defender: In battle, the side that did not begin the combat.
Discovering: The act of turning a map tile faceup through the 
expenditure of movement by an adjacent figure.
Front: An area within a battle. A front may hold only one unit 
from each civilization in the battle, and any units in the same 
front immediately attack each other.
Government: A civilization’s ruling body. Governments 
determine a civilization’s character and overall goals. Over time, 
a civilization may pass through many types of government as its 
character changes.
Great Person: Prominent people within their civilizations who 
change history. Great people function much like buildings do.
Hut: A peaceful tribe found on the map.
Limited Buildings: Buildings marked with a star. Each city may 
only contain one limited building in total.
Natural Wonder: A square on the map that is unusually 
beautiful or inspiring. Natural wonders provide culture in 
addition to their normal resources.
Production: Measure of a civilization’s industry. Primarily used 
to create new buildings, units, figures, or wonders.
Research: Research allows civilizations to learn new techs 
which help them grow more powerful and efficient.
Resource: Special tokens that may be spent to activate certain 
abilities found on tech cards.
Resource Abilities: Any ability that costs one or more resource 
tokens to activate.
Scout: A plastic figure representing a player’s non-military 
forces.
Stacking Limit: The maximum number of figures a civilization 
may have in a single square. Represents the civilization’s 
communication and organizational capability.
Standing Forces: A deck containing the unit cards a player 
has built. A player’s battle force is randomly drawn from their 
standing forces.
Strength: The general measure of the power of a unit card.
Tech: Tech represents a certain discovery or invention. Techs are 
placed in their civilization’s tech pyramid as they are learned. 
Tech learned by one player only apply to that particular player.
Tech Pyramid: Techs are organized in the tech pyramid into 
five different levels. Higher level techs must each be placed 
above two techs of the next level down.
Terrain: There are five types of terrain on the map: desert, 
forest, grassland, mountain, and water. Terrain affects where 
buildings may be placed.
Trade: Measure of a civilization’s scientific progress. Used 
primarily to learn techs.
Travel Speed: The number of squares a civilization’s figures 
may move each turn.
Trump: A unit that trumps another unit gets to strike first in 
battle.
Unit: A card representing part of a player’s military strength.
Unlocked: Able to be produced. Units, governments, and 
buildings are typically unlocked by learning certain tech cards.
Upgrade: A tech ability that improves a unit or building, 
transforming it into a new type of unit or building.
Village: A warlike tribe found on the map.
Wonder: An amazing invention or construction that brings great 
glory to the civilization that creates it. Wonders provide both 
culture and unique abilities to their owner.
Wounds: Damage inflicted on a unit during battle. All wounds 
are healed at the end of every battle.

Credits
Game Design: Kevin Wilson
Special thanks to Tom Ebert, J.R. Godwin, James Hata, Michael 
Hurley, Pam Vanmuijen, and Team XYZZY. Additionally, a very 
special thanks to Sid Meier and the good people at Firaxis for 
letting me play with their toys.
Producer: Sally Hopper
Editing: Mark O’Connor
Proofreading: James Hata, Michael Hurley, Patricia Meredith
Graphic Design: Andrew Navaro, WiL Springer
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Map and Building Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Abraham Lincoln Art: Tom Garden
Cover Art: Jung Park
Figure Designs: Jason Beaudoin
Additional art was used from the Firaxis archives. Thanks to all 
of these artists for their contributions.
Playtesters: C. Biancheria, Bryan Bornmueller, Matt Cary, 
Joseph L. Casadonte Jr., Anthony Doepner, Shaun Donnelly, Ken 
Drake, Jean9 Duncan, Tom Ebert, J.R. Godwin, Kyle Hough, 
John Goodenough, Eric Hanson, James Hata, Steve Horvath, 
Michael Hurley, David Johnson, Sally Hopper, Troy Karkula, 
Evan Kinne, Jay Little, Thyme Ludwig, Walter McKinnon, 
Mitch Melykson, Andrew Meredith, Seana Miller, Alan R. 
Moon, Erin A. O’Malley, Richard Nauertz, Scott Nicholson, 
Mario Pawlowski, Thaadd Powell, Guy Reed, Brady Sadler, 
John Skogerboe, Rob Smolka, Anton Torres, Pam Vanmuijen, 
BreeAnn Vosberg, Peter Wocken, Kevin Wood, Michelle Zentis
Production Manager: Eric Knight
FFG Lead Producer: Michael Hurley
FFG Lead Developer: Corey Konieczka
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Firaxis Credits
Art Director: Steve Ogden
Marketing Director: Kelley Gilmore
Marketing Associate: Peter Murray
Firaxis Playtesters: Ed Beach, David McDonough, Peter 
Murray, Brian Wade
2k Credits
Director of Digital Sales: Paul Crockett
© 1991–2010 Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Sid Meier’s 
Civilization, Civ, Civilization, Firaxis Games, the Firaxis Games logo, 2K, the 2K Games 
logo and Take-Two Interactive Software are all trademarks and/or registered trademarks 
of Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. in the United States and/or foreign countries. Board 
game design © 2010 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy 
Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved to their respective owners. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West 
County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, MN, 55113, USA and can be reached by telephone at 
651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 
months due to small parts. Components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 12 YEARS OF AGE 
OR YOUNGER.

Index
Summary of Tech Card Icons and Abilities
Resource Ability
The tech card allows the player to spend the 
pictured resource to activate the listed ability 
during the stated phase of the turn. Resource 
abilities may only be used once per turn.
Constant Ability
The tech card permanently grants the player 
the listed ability. The ability may be used 
as often as the player likes unless otherwise 
stated.
Unlock Building
The tech card allows the player to build the 
pictured building for the listed ! cost.
Upgrade Building
Identified by the grey arrow to the left of the 
building’s name. The tech card allows the 
player to build the pictured building for the 
listed ! cost, and it upgrades all buildings 
that player already owns of a certain type (see 
market board) to that type of building.
Upgrade Unit
Upgrades all unit cards of the indicated type 
to the listed rank. Units never decrease in 
rank, and ranks may be skipped.
Increase Culture Hand Size
Increases the player’s culture hand size by 
one card. Multiple techs with this ability are 
cumulative.
Gain Coin
The player gains one coin when the tech is 
learned.
Unlock Government
Allows the player to change their civilization 
to the listed government type. Doing so is 
free if done the turn after the government 
type is unlocked, otherwise the player must 
first change their civilization’s government to 
Anarchy.
The resources that may appear on a tech card include:
incense
iron
silk
spy
uranium
wheat
any resource
Anarchy, see Governments
Armies
	
Movement 19
	
Producing 15
	
vs. Units 24
Barbarians 20
Blockades 27
Building New Cities 13
	
Placement Restrictions and 
Example 13
Buildings
	
City Walls 17
	
Limited 17
	
Producing 16
	
Replacing 17
	
Terrain Restrictions 16
Civilization Sheet Breakdown 7
City Management Phase
	
Overview 15
	
Devoting to the Arts 17
	
Producing
	
	
Buildings 16
	
	
Figures 15–16
	
	
Units 16
	
	
Wonders 17
City Walls, see Buildings
Coins 26
Combat
	
Aircraft 25
	
Battle Abilities 25
	
Battle Hand Size 23
	
Bonuses 23
	
Fronts and Attacks 24
	
Losses and Loot 25
	
Resolving 25
	
Trumping 25
Components 3–6
Culture
	
	
Collecting, see Devoting to 
the Arts
	
Looting 25
	
Scout Gathering 26
	
Spending 17
Culture Events
	
Gaining 17–18
	
Hand Size 17
Culture Track
	
Advancing on 17
	
Spaces 18
Devoting to the Arts 17
First Game for Beginners 8
Game Setup
	
General 8–10
	
Player 10–12
	
Setup Diagram 9
Game Turn Overview 12
Golden Rule 8
Governments
	
Anarchy 14
	
Changing 14
Great People 18
	
Gaining from Villages 20
Harvesting Resources 18
Huts
	
Placing 19
	
Exploring 20
Map Tiles
	
Exploring 19
	
Icon Breakdown 7
Movement
	
Cities 20
	
Crossing Water 19
	
Discovering Map Tiles 19–20
	
Enemy Figures 20
	
Exploring Huts & Villages 20
	
Groups 19
	
Stacking Limit 19
	
	
Rushing with Trade 15
	
Scouts Gathering 26
	
Spending 15–17
	
vs. Trade 14
Research Phase
	
Overview 13
	
Tech Pyramid 11, 21
	
Trade Cost to Research 21
Resources
	
	
Collecting, see Harvesting 
Resources
	
Looting 25
	
Scout Gathering 26
	
Spending 17
Scouts
	
Gathering 26
	
Movement 19
	
Producing 15
Start of Turn Phase 13–14
	
Overview 13
	
Building New Cities 13
Tech Cards
	
Abilities 21–22, back cover
	
Researching 20–21
Tech Pyramid 11, 21
	
	
Collecting 14
	
Scouts Gathering 26
	
vs. Production 14
Trade Phase
	
Overview 14
	
Collecting Trade 14	
	
Negotiating and Trading 15
Units
	
Overview 23
	
In Battle 24
	
Producing 16
	
vs. Armies 24
Victory Conditions 2, 22–23
	
Culture 22
	
Economic 22
	
Military 23
	
Tech 22
Villages
	
Placing 19
	
Exploring 20
	
Barbarians 20
Wonders
	
Discounts on 17
	
Obsoleting 27
	
Producing 17