The passages beneath Dragon Keep are the most dangerous territory in the Realm. Only the greatest burglars can sneak 
in, steal from the dragon, and escape to tell the tale. So naturally, you and your fellow thieves have challenged each other 
to do just that.
Along the way, you’ll recruit allies and snatch up extra loot. But one false step and—Clank! Careless noise draws the 
dragon’s attention, and each artifact stolen increases its rage. You’d better hope your friends are louder than you are if 
you want to escape the depths alive…
Components
Double-sided Game Board
Dungeon Deck
100 cards
Reserve Cards
15 Mercenary, 15 Explore, 12 Secret Tome, 1 Goblin
Four 10-card Starting Decks
Each containing:
6 Burgle, 2 Stumble,
1 Cautious Advance, 1 Skillful Move

A
Each player takes 30 Clank! cubes and places them in a 
personal supply in front of them.
They also take a pawn of the matching color, and a 10-card 
deck containing the following:
6 Burgles
2 Stumbles
1 Cautious Advance
1 Skillful Move
Place these tokens around the game board as follows:
B
Place the seven Artifacts (valued from 5 to 30) 
face up on the spaces marked with the 
corresponding numbers.
If playing with fewer than 4 players, before placing 
the Artifacts, shuffle them face down and select some 
at random to exclude from the game.
With 3 players, return one Artifact to the box.
With 2 players, return two Artifacts.
C
Shuffle the Major Secrets face down, then 
place one at random on each Major Secret 
space.
There will be extra Major Secrets. Return them to the box 
unseen.
D
Shuffle the Minor Secrets face down, then 
place one at random on each Minor Secret 
space. (Two in each room with Minor Secrets.)
E
Place the Market Items on the Market area:
Two Master Keys
Two Backpacks
Three Crowns (valued 10, 9, and 8)
F
Place the three Monkey Idols on the Monkey 
Shrine room.
G
Place the Mastery tokens near the top left 
corner of the board, one for each player.
H
Place the Gold tokens (valued 1 and 5) in a Bank next to 
the game board.
I
Place the Dragon marker (black) on the Rage Track.
In a 4-player game, place it on the first space.
In a 3-player game, place it on the second space.
In a 2-player game, place it on the third space.
J
Place the 24 dragon cubes (black) in the Dragon Bag, and 
set the bag next to the game board.
K
Place the Goblin monster card in Reserve, next to the 
game board, along with the piles of Mercenary, Explore, 
and Secret Tome cards.
L
Shuffle the Dungeon Deck and deal six cards to form the 
Dungeon Row, face up on the table.
If any of those cards have the Dragon Attack symbol 
along the right edge, replace them with other cards 
until none of them show the symbol, then shuffle any 
replaced cards back into the Dungeon Deck.
Leave room next to the Dungeon Deck to form a 
Dungeon discard pile during the game.
M
Each player places their pawn just outside the dungeon, 
at the top of the game board, then shuffles their 10-card 
deck and draws five cards from it.
N
The sneakiest player gets to go first (or you may choose 
randomly). Play will proceed clockwise from there. The 
first player places 3 Clank! cubes into the Clank! Area. The 
second player places 2 Clank! The third and fourth players (if 
there are any) place 1 Clank! and 0 Clank!, respectively.
The example at the right shows set up on the “front” side 
of the board, which is recommended for your first game. 
But a different dungeon awaits you on the other side!
Setup

C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
M
N
A
B
L
K

CLANK! is a deck-building game. Each player has their own deck, and building yours up is part of playing the game.
You start each of your turns with five cards in your hand, and you’ll play them all in any order you choose. Most cards will 
generate resources, of which there are three different kinds:
SKILL, which is used to acquire new cards for your deck.
SWORDS, which are used to fight the monsters that infest the dungeon.
BOOTS, which are used to move around the board.
Every time you acquire a new card, you put it face up in your discard pile. Whenever you need to draw a card and find your 
deck empty, you shuffle your discard pile and turn it face down to form a new deck. With each shuffle, your newest cards 
become part of a bigger and better deck!
Each player starts with the same cards in their deck, but they’ll acquire different cards during their turns. Because cards 
can do many different things, each player’s deck (and strategy) will become more and more different as the game unfolds.
So You Want to Be a Thief?

The terms of this thieving challenge are clear: everyone must go into the dungeon and steal an Artifact. Escaping with 
your life is technically optional, although vastly preferable.
During the game, you have two goals:
Retrieve an Artifact token and escape the dragon by returning to the place you started, outside of the dungeon. 
You can normally carry only one Artifact, and once you’ve 
picked one up, you’re stuck with it. Choose carefully!
Accumulate enough points with your Artifact and other loot to beat out your opponents and earn the title of Greatest 
Thief in the Realm!
This Artifact isn’t worth many 
points, but at least it’s easy to get to. 
Make sure to gather more loot to keep 
pace with your rivals!
This Artifact is worth a lot more points, 
but the path to it is long and dangerous. 
Make sure you can escape the dungeon 
once you have it!
Step 1: The Target

Stealing from the dragon is far from a simple job. You’ll have to navigate through the ruins, deal with monsters, and 
acquire valuable treasures.
During your turn, you can use the resources you’ve generated—Skill, Swords, and Boots—to take any of the following 
actions. You may take each action as many times as you like, as long as you have the resources to do so. You can wait and 
take your actions after you’ve played all of your cards, or you can take actions between cards if you wish.
Step 2: The Plan
Acquire a New Card for Your Deck
You can use Skill to acquire cards with blue banners from the 
Dungeon Row (which change throughout the game) or cards 
with yellow banners from the Reserve (which are the same in 
every game).
The Skill Cost of a card is found in its lower right 
corner. Once you pay the cost, place the card in your 
discard pile; it is now part of your deck.
Use a Device
Devices are the cards with purple banners in the Dungeon Row.
Devices can be acquired with Skill, but they do not become 
part of your deck. Instead, you perform the Use text listed on 
the card and then place it in the Dungeon discard pile (next to 
the Dungeon Deck).
The Skill Cost of a Device is found in its lower right corner.
Fight a Monster
Monsters are the cards with red banners in the Dungeon Row. 
Instead of acquiring monsters with Skill, you fight them using 
Swords.
The Swords required to defeat a monster are 
found in its lower right corner.
When you fight a monster in the Dungeon Row, you gain the 
reward listed in its Defeat text. Then the card is placed in the 
Dungeon discard pile (not your own discard pile).
You may also fight the Goblin in the Reserve. It is not 
discarded when defeated; each player may fight it multiple 
times each turn, earning its reward each time.
Buy From the Market
The Market is a series of spaces where merchants 
serve those exploring the dungeon. If you are in 
a Market room, you may make a purchase.
All items at the Market cost 7 Gold. Place each 
item you buy in front of you, in your play area.
Items available at the Market are described on 
the back of this rulebook.
Move Through a Tunnel 
Boots are how you traverse the passages of the 
dungeon. Each Boot lets you move along one tunnel to 
a new room.
Some tunnels have special rules:
A tunnel with Footprint icons requires two Boots to 
traverse instead of one.
A tunnel with Monster icons deals that much damage 
to you when you move through it. For each Sword 
you use, you take one less damage (but you don’t 
have to use Swords to move through a Monster tunnel).
You cannot use a tunnel with a lock icon unless 
you have a Master Key token (purchased from the 
Market) in your possession.
A tunnel shaped like an arrow can only be used in the 
direction of the arrow—you normally can’t move through it 
in the opposite direction.
When you move into a room, you can take one of the tokens 
there (Minor Secret, Major Secret, Monkey Idol, or Artifact) 
and put it in front of you.
When you take an Artifact token, move the Dragon marker 
up one space along the Rage Track.
You can only take one token when you move into a room. 
(If the room has more than one token in it, you must exit 
and re-enter to pick up another.)
You can’t take an Artifact token if you already have one.
You don’t have to take a token if you don’t want to. 
(You might want to pass up one Artifact to go after a more 
valuable one elsewhere.)
When you take a Minor or Major Secret token, reveal it. 
The Secret tokens are described on the back of this 
rulebook.
Whenever you enter a Crystal Cave room, 
you become exhausted while wandering its 
maze-like passages and cannot use any 
more Boots this turn. You may still be able to 
move by Teleporting (described in Advanced 
Maneuvers), but you won’t be able to use 
Boots until your next turn.

There are two other common effects that your cards many have:
Once you’ve played all of your cards and used as much of your resources as you want to, your turn ends. Put all of the 
cards you played into your discard pile and draw five new cards in preparation for your next turn. Any Skill, Swords, or 
Boots you don’t use are wasted, so make them count!
Gaining Gold
When you gain Gold, take it from the Bank and put it in 
front of you. Each Gold is worth 1 point when the game 
ends, but you can also use it for other reasons during 
the game, such as buying items from the Market.
Clank!
Some cards cause you to gain Clank! When this happens, add 
that many cubes from your personal supply to the Clank! Area 
of the game board.
Some very sneaky cards cause you to remove Clank! For each 
negative Clank! you get, remove one of your Clank! from the 
Clank! Area. If you don’t have enough Clank! there, you can 
instead avoid adding Clank! later in the turn if an effect would 
make you do so. Any leftover negative Clank! is lost when your 
turn ends.
The green player takes her turn by playing the following cards:
The green player carries out the text on her cards as soon as she 
plays them, adding 1 Clank! to the Clank! Area for her Stumble, 
and then removing it when she plays Move Silently. (She has 
another -1 Clank! left over from Move Silently, which she could 
use later in the turn if she were to make more Clank!)
She has a total of two Boots, which she uses to move through two 
different tunnels. She ends up in a Crystal Cave room; she could 
not have moved farther this turn, even if she had more Boots.
She uses her two Swords to Fight an Orc Grunt in the Dungeon 
Row. She gains 3 Gold (from the Orc Grunt’s Defeat text), and 
places the monster in the Dungeon discard pile.
She uses her total 3 Skill to acquire a Kobold Merchant from the 
Dungeon Row, placing the card in her own discard pile. (She has 
just acquired the card; she won’t get gold or skill from it until 
she reshuffles her discard pile, draws the card, and plays it.)
Having played all cards in her hand and used all the resources 
she can, the green player ends her turn.

Dungeon delving is not without its risks. A master thief must carefully manage their physical state to maximize both 
profit and survivability. Remember, the two greatest obstacles to spending money are being broke and being dead.
Each player’s health is tracked on a Health Meter at the bottom of the game board. When you take damage during the 
game—and you will take damage—place your cubes on the Health Meter of your color, starting from the left.
If the damage came from a dragon attack, use the cubes that were pulled from the Dragon Bag.
If you chose to take damage by moving through a Monster tunnel without a Sword, take the cubes from your personal 
supply. You can’t choose to take damage this way if it would completely fill your Health Meter!
Some effects can heal damage you’ve taken. When you heal, take back a cube of your color from your Health Meter 
and put it in your personal supply. You can use it again later for more Clank!
If your Health Meter is ever completely filled, you are knocked out. What 
happens next depends on how successful you’ve been so far:
If you have retrieved an Artifact and escaped the Depths area of the 
dungeon, you are rescued by the townsfolk and can count the points 
you’ve earned.
If you haven’t gotten an Artifact yet, or if you are still stuck in the 
Depths, then you can’t be rescued. You lose the competition, which at 
this point is the least of your worries.
Once you’ve picked up an Artifact, you can also make your way 
back to the place you started, outside of the dungeon. If you make 
it all the way back before being knocked out, you will receive a 
Mastery token worth an additional 20 points!
Remember, if you don’t have an Artifact yet, you can’t leave the dungeon, 
or even be rescued!
}
Depths
Step 4: The Getaway
The queen of Dragon Keep is Nictotraxian–but we just call her “Nicki.” She’s not going to like us sneaking around her 
lair and taking her things.
At the end of every turn, if any of the six spaces for cards in the Dungeon Row are empty, refill them with new 
cards from the Dungeon Deck. If any of the cards drawn have a Dragon Attack symbol, the dragon attacks! (But 
only once, no matter how many Dragon Attack symbols were revealed.)
To execute an attack, take all of the Clank! in the Clank! Area and put it in the Dragon Bag. Shake it up and draw 
a number of cubes from the bag equal to the number shown in the Dragon marker’s current space of the Rage 
Track. Each black cube drawn is set aside, but each colored cube represents damage dealt to that player. (Undrawn cubes 
remain in the bag—they might still be drawn out later.) The more Clank! you make, the more likely the dragon is to notice 
and attack you. Managing your noise level is key to survival!
The dragon’s rage increases throughout the game. Every time an Artifact is picked up, and whenever a Dragon Egg (a type 
of Minor Secret) is discovered, advance the Dragon marker one space along the Rage Track. This may cause more cubes to 
be drawn in the next attack. The more cubes being drawn, the deadlier the game becomes. Tread carefully!
At the end of the yellow player’s turn, there are only three cards left in the Dungeon Row. Three cards are revealed from the 
top of the Dungeon Deck to fill the empty spaces. Two of them have the Dragon Attack symbol, triggering an attack this turn.
All the cubes in the Clank! Area are placed in the Dragon Bag. The Dragon marker is currently on the fifth space of the Rage 
Track, so four cubes are drawn from the bag. One cube is black; it is set aside, affecting no one. The second is green, so the 
green player takes 1 damage. The last two cubes are both yellow, so the yellow player takes 2 damage. 
Step 3: The Mark

Good timing is crucial in this heist—getting caught by a dragon is far worse than being pinched by the authorities! But as 
in all heists, there’s nothing wrong with throwing your rivals under the proverbial carriage once you’ve made your escape.
Whenever a player leaves the dungeon or is knocked out, they no longer take normal turns. They add no more Clank! to 
the Clank! Area. Cards that affect all players don’t affect them. If any cubes of their color are drawn from the Dragon Bag, 
no damage is dealt—they are treated like black cubes.
In addition, the first time any player leaves the dungeon or is knocked out, that player moves their pawn to the first 
(leftmost) space of the Countdown Track near the entrance to the dungeon. On that player’s next turn, instead of taking 
a normal turn, they move their pawn forward one space on the Countdown Track and execute that space’s effects. (Other 
players who later leave the dungeon or get knocked out do not use the Countdown Track.)
On the second through fourth spaces, this causes an instant Dragon Attack. Additional cubes are drawn from the 
Dragon Bag for each of these attacks: 1 extra for the second space, 2 extra for the third, and 3 extra for the fourth.
On the fifth space, the dragon instantly knocks out all players still in the dungeon.
Once all players are out of the dungeon or knocked out, the game ends. All players who escaped the dungeon (or at least 
the Depths) add up their score, counting the following:
The value of their Artifact.
 Points from any other tokens they acquired.
Points equal to the amount of Gold they accumulated.
Points awarded by cards in their deck. (The top right corner of each card shows the amount it’s worth.)
The player with the most points is the winner and is declared the Greatest Thief in the Realm! In the case of a tie, the tied 
player with the most valuable Artifact is the winner.
Step 5: The End of the Line

Acquire — A card’s Acquire text is 
carried out one time, when you 
acquire it from the Dungeon Row 
(not when you play it later from 
your hand).
Arrive — A card’s Arrive text is 
carried out when the card is 
revealed (before any Dragon 
Attack that may also have been 
triggered by refilling the Dungeon Row at the end of a turn).
Danger — For each Danger card 
in the Dungeon Row, you pull an 
additional cube from the Dragon 
Bag during each Dragon Attack. 
Discard — Some cards ask you to discard a card. You can only 
discard cards in your hand that you haven’t played yet. The card 
does not have its normal effect, which means discarding can be 
a useful way to get around cards that generate Clank! If you’re 
asked to discard a card to get something, you must actually 
discard a card to get it.
Example: Sleight of Hand says “Discard a card to draw two 
cards.” If you don’t have a card in your hand to discard, you 
don’t get to draw two cards.
Fountain of Healing — When you enter a room 
with a Fountain of Healing, heal 1 damage.
Market — On the reverse side of the board, the 
Market is not a single group of spaces near the 
center of the dungeon. Instead, traveling merchants can be 
found on spaces scattered throughout the dungeon.
Order of Card Plays — Some cards have effects that depend on 
things you have, such as cards in your play area, or items you’ve 
collected. You get these effects even if you play the card first 
and then get the thing you need later in your turn.
Examples: Rebel Scout says “If you have another companion in 
your play area, draw a card.” You draw the card whether you 
play the other companion before or after the Rebel Scout.
The Mountain King says “If you have a crown, +
 and +
.” If 
you play him and later buy a crown from the market, you still 
get the additional Sword and Boot.
Play Area — When you play cards during your turn, they go to 
a play area in front of you. This helps keep track of the cards 
you’ve used this turn. Note that if you have to reshuffle your 
discard pile during your turn, these cards are not included.
Reserve — The Mercenary, Explore, and Secret Tome cards in 
the Reserve are limited. The Reserve can run out of these cards 
if players acquire enough of them.
Running Out of Clank! — If you ever run out of cubes in your 
personal supply, then you can’t choose to take damage while 
moving through tunnels. But you also can’t be forced to add any 
more Clank!—you get off free! (At least until you get any cubes 
back from healing. Nothing’s free forever.)
Teleport — Teleportation is a special form of movement that 
allows you to move to any room connected to your current 
room. You do not need to use Boots or fight any monsters in 
the tunnel. You can even use locked or one-way passages that 
you normally couldn’t. Remember that on the turn you enter a 
Crystal Cave room (by any means), you can’t use any Boots for 
the rest of the turn.
Trash — Some cards and effects can cause you to trash a card. 
This removes the chosen card from your deck entirely, which 
is a great thing to do to the relatively weak cards that make 
up your starting deck. When you trash a card, you choose one 
from your discard pile (or your play area) and return it to the 
box at the end of the turn.
“Wrap-around” Tunnels — Tunnels that go off the edge of the 
game board connect to the opposite side of the board. They 
only require one Boot, like other normal tunnels.
Never be afraid to learn new tricks of the trade–you never know when one might save your life.
Advanced Maneuvers

Game Concept and Design
Paul Dennen
Art Direction, Art, Graphic Design
Rayph Beisner, Derek Herring, Levi Parker, Nate Storm
Card Illustration
Rayph Beisner, Derek Herring, Ratislav Le, Raul Ramos
Production
Evan Lorentz, Tim McKnight, Caitlin Satchell
Additional Game Design
Andy Clautice, Evan Lorentz, Kevin Spak
Game Development
Dan Burdick, Matt Nass, Luis Scott-Vargas, Conley Woods
Special thanks to:
All of the awesome Dire Wolf Digital team members, and their 
friends and families, who helped to playtest CLANK!
The Wizard’s Chest in Denver (wizardschest.com)
www.direwolfdigital.com
www.twitter.com/direwolfdigital
www.facebook.com/direwolfdigital
www.renegadegamestudios.com
www.twitter.com/playrenegade
www.facebook.com/playrgs
Credits

Field Reference Guide
Major Secrets
Potion of Greater Healing
Use during your turn to heal 2 damage.
Greater Skill Boost
Immediately gain 5 Skill, then return the token to the 
box.
Greater Treasure
This token counts as 5 Gold. You may keep it until 
the end of the game or spend it normally.
Flash of Brilliance
Immediately draw three cards, then return the token 
to the box.
Chalice
Keep this token—it is worth 7 points at the end of the 
game. It is not an Artifact.
Market Items
Master Key
Allows you to use tunnels with a lock icon.
(Also worth 5 points at the end of the game.)
Backpack
Allows you to carry an additional Artifact.
(Also worth 5 points at the end of the game.)
Crown
Worth the number of points shown.
(Each player takes the most valuable Crown available 
when they buy one.)
Minor Secrets
Potion of Healing
Use during your turn to heal 1 damage.
Potion of Swiftness
Use during your turn to gain 1 Boot.
Potion of Strength
Use during your turn to gain 2 Swords.
Skill Boost
Immediately gain 2 Skill, then return the token to the 
box.
Treasure
This token counts as 2 Gold. You may keep it until 
the end of the game or spend it normally.
Magic Spring
At the end of this turn, trash a card from your 
discard pile or play area. Return the card and this 
token to the box.
Dragon Egg
Keep this token—it is worth 3 points at the end of the 
game. Advance the Dragon marker one space along 
the Rage Track.