A game by CROC
TM

Presentation
 Presentation
10th of June, Year of Our Lord 1634
G
loria Hallelujah! The Council of New Jerusalem has 
decided that the catacombs under the city should be 
explored! These strange tunnels have been haunting my 
thoughts, both because of their rather strange structure and 
the danger they represent. They will soon be known to us. 
However it will be far from a simple formality. What evil 
can be roaming around down there, underground, in Hell? 
I have sent a message to a friend of mine, a priest, a Redee-
mer whose talents are like no other. I am counting on him 
to lead the only soldiers that the Council will allow us, pri-
soners, condemned to death. They are murderers and thieves 
of the worst possible kind, but we will have to make do. 
I am in charge of «enlisting» these wayward mercenaries, 
while I await an answer from my dear friend.
19th of June
W
	e had been quite prepared to come across the 
Devil’s minions down there in the catacombs. The 
first descent was quite simply a disaster. Even now, as I 
write these few lines, we have no news of the Redeemer 
and the men that he now calls his «flock». He became accus-
tomed to them very quickly. Speaking privately to me, he 
confessed that he prefers to work with the kind of man 
who has nothing to lose. God alone knows what they may 
have encountereddown in the bowels of the city, for we 
have had no reports for several hours now. Furthermore, 
the lifeline rope that kept us connected to the expedition 
came back to us, severed and bloody. May the Lord watch 
over my friend and his men, if he sees fit to do so. [...]
7th of July
T
he legions of demonic creatures are forever multiplying 
and seem never to weaken. These monsters are short in 
height, but very aggressive - especially in greater numbers 
- and they attack our troops almost every day. We have 
managed to keep them at bay so far. Dear Lord, I doubt we 
will be able to for much longer. Guarding the tunnels clo-
sest to the surface seems impossible. We are losing ground, 
little by little, and we are pushed back towards the exits. 
If we move back much further we will be defending the 
streets of the city itself! But the Redeemer, who seems to 
be worried, has shut himself in his cell with a herald from 
the Council. Could there be a solution to this situation? 
The prisoners speak of a deep well, a hole from which come 
devilish whispers. What if these rumors were true? 
Dear Lord, give me the strength to resist! [...]
31st of July
O
ur efforts have not been in vain, even though the result 
is not quite the one we hoped for. The abyss has been 
filled in and the Troglodytes attack our positions much less 
often than before. Our own losses have decreased, but the 
creatures are still there, and as numerous as before. The 
whispering has begun to affect the morale of our men. A 
constant murmur, nothing more, that witnesses say calms 
the Troglodytes and controls them. The Redeemer has orde-
red that he be brought many old books, volumes that are 
used by the Holy inquisition. He has been literally devou-
ring every page before he leaves for each new expedition. I 
can see him from here, blessing his men, ready and armed, at 
the entrance to the catacombs. On his lectern, he has left a 
book open at a page entitled «The Master of Souls». Lord, 
I beg of you, have mercy on my friend.
2nd of August
H
is fervor is as great as is his stoutheartedness. Once 
again, my friend has set off again into that putrid 
maze, more determined than ever. His victory has invigora-
ted his men, and has inspired him to strike hard. Yet again 
informed by those obscure books, he seems convinced that 
he can purify parts of those damned tunnels. Although 
we know that there are demons at least as terrible as the 
Master of Souls leading the Troglodyte legions, he walks 
onwards with his heart full of hope and faith. Amen! […]
8th of August
I
t is as if he is surrounded by a halo of flames of une-
qualed purity! We received news only a day ago that he 
will be going below yet again. With his blessed hammer in 
one hand and the holy texts in the other. Yet again he has 
consulted the books used by the Inquisition, before leaving 
on this expedition. His fervor radiates from him as stron-
gly as ever. He is like a lighthouse in Hell, a flame in the 
darkness. He is going down to free those who served him a 
month ago - and who we believed to have perished - from 
their ordeal. He is going back down into the bowels of Hell 
to repair this indignity, and rid their human bodies of the 
demonic spirits who have possessed them. Saint Michael, 
grant him your strength!
15th of August
D
ear Lord, protect us from Evil. All is lost...

C
laustrophobia is an adventure game set in the 
universe of Hell Dorado. It allows two players 
to recreate the battles taking place in the under-
ground tunnels below New Jerusalem. One 
player will be playing a group of determined 
Humans, while the other will be controlling 
an almost infinite army of demonic creatures.
 The game includes:
 36 Tunnel and Room tiles.
These tiles represent the sections of the catacombs of New 
Jerusalem, they are the battlefield where the two players’ 
warriors will confront each other.
 1 Redeemer miniature;
The Redeemer leads the underground expedi-
tions in the name of New Jerusalem. Armed 
with only a hammer, a lantern, and his 
faith, this holy man leads his flock into 
the heart of Hell. His fervor allows 
him to support the condemned men, 
by his care and his healing powers, 
and to give more strength to his 
purifying arm. He is the Human 
player’s main warrior. He has 
special magical powers.
 2 Condemned Brute miniatures;
When supported by the Redeemer, this 
warrior is even more terrifying than he 
is on his own. His massive form fills the 
underground tunnels, and prevents the 
enemies from passing him. His wea-
pons are a jumble of ordinary 
tools, and they guard him well 
from the hordes of troglodyte 
creatures. The Brute will always be 
ready and waiting for them.
He is a strong and solid warrior, 
able to defend the Redeemer and the 
Blades for Hire.
 2 Condemned Blade for Hire
 	
miniatures;
The Blade for Hire uses the Brute like a rock to 
shelter him from the storm. Being both lithe and 
well used to vicious skirmishes, this throat-slitter 
is first in line when exploring the underground tun-
nels. Like his Condemned comrade, he wears a 
gauntlet and protection in the lower regions. 
In fact, he quickly adapted to the idea of 
killing creatures smaller than himself. This 
warrior is a scout who will be very 
useful for exploring the catacombs.
 11 Troglodyte miniatures;
On their own, these short crea-
tures tend to avoid confronta-
tion. They prefer to attack in 
numbers. A fair-sized pack of 
them can tear apart a well-built man 
in a matter of seconds. And when the shadows are thick, 
the Troglodytes become the incarnation of terror itself. 
Darkness is their realm. These warriors are the main 
strike force of the Demon player.
 1 Demon miniature;
He uses the Troglodyte 
rabble whenever pos-
sible. Whether he is 
a tempter, a beast or a 
warrior, the demon behind 
the Troglodyte legions is one of those 
whose sole aim is to destroy the city 
of New Jerusalem. The Redeemer’s 
only goal is to eradicate him. And 
few are the demons who will not 
fight to the death.
The demon is the most tenacious 
adversary that the Human forces 
will come up against, and they face 
a different type in each scenario.
Tunnel
Room

Smite the Evil Ones
During his activation, the Redeemer 
achieves a hit for every Combat 
die score of 2 or higher, regardless 
of the DEF stat of his target. This 
Gift has no effect if the Redeemer 
uses a Grenade or a Blunderbuss.
Any Demon hit by this 
warrior is killed outright.
effect when the warrior 
using it is Exhausted.
BLESSED HAMMER
Brute
 5 Reference cards for the Humans
On the cards, you will find all the statistics and talents for 
the Human warriors. During the game, they will be inser-
ted into the card stands.
 5 card stands
These stands are used to 
note the Damage the Human warriors 
will suffer during the game.
 25 plastic Damage tokens
These tokens allow the Human player to keep 
track of the Damage inflicted on his warriors. 
They are placed in the Damage squares of the 
Human warriors’ Reference cards when required.
 6 Gift cards
These cards show the magical powers that the Redeemer 
can use during the game.
 6 Object cards
These cards represent Objects that can give the Human 
warriors additional abilities.
Name of the warrior
Action lines
Damage square
Action Die score
Talent(s)
Name of Gift
Name of Object
Action Die 
score
Name of 
warriors who 
can use it
Gift’s effects
Description of Object’s 
effects
Square for the Action Die 
for the current round

Play this card during an 
Initiative phase.
The Demon player will not be 
able to roll more than 2 Dice of 
Destiny during the next Threat 
phase. Any bonuses granted by The 
Calm Before The Storm (Board of 
Destiny) or by the tile Demonic 
Mechanism are therefore canceled.
OIL FOR YOUR LAMP
Possessed One
Health
The Blessed Hammer only 
causes them 2 wounds per hit.
All the Troglodytes on the same 
tile as him are Bodyguards.
Once exorcised, this Possessed 
One becomes a Condemned 
Blade for Hire.
MVT
Play this card during the Threat phase.
A Condemned warrior of your choice 
immediately attacks another Human warrior 
on the same tile as himself. He cannot use 
a Grenade, or his Bodyguard Talent.
Demonic Possession
 15 Advantage cards
These cards represent minor Objects and Orders that can 
give the Human warriors temporary abilities during the 
course of the game.
 1 Board of Destiny
This board is used by the Demon player to keep track of the 
stats and special abilities of his Troglodyte warriors at all 
times, for they change constantly throughout the game.
 7 Reference cards for the Demons
Each scenario involves a different type of Demon. These 
cards are used to define their statistics. When the Demons 
are wounded, “Wound” tokens should be placed on their 
card (see below).
 16 Event cards
During the game, the Demon player will trigger “Events” 
to turn things to his advantage.
 20 Threat Point tokens
These tokens are used by the Demon 
player to play his Troglodyte warriors 
and Demons.
 10 Wound tokens
When a demon is wounded, one of these 
tokens is placed on their Reference card.
Destiny space
Name of the effect
Die score that can trigger the 
effect
Description of the effect
Name of the 
Advantage
Name of the Demon
Name of Event
Health
Advantage’s 
effects
Event’s effects
Special abilities
Basic Statistics
of the Troglodytes

B
B
SCENARIO: THE SURVIVORS 
 The Survivors 
Our numbers, our faith and our courage combined were 
not enough to avoid disaster. The cleansing of the under-
ground tunnels has turned into a bloodbath sooner than 
we had expected: great numbers of Troglodytes, roaming 
the tunnels in packs, backed up by Demons, have scatte-
red the mortals sent below, before feasting on the isolated 
ones. Panic has ruined the hopes of the expedition. Only a 
handful have managed to survive, guided by the Redeemer. 
As they wander, lost in the labyrinth, they must try to ﬁ nd 
their way out, even if this means helping themselves to loot 
from the bodies of their slaughtered companions. But their 
enemies grow ever nearer, and although they have already 
feasted on Human ﬂ esh, they are still hungry.
 HUMAN PLAYER’S FORCES
The Human player 
will be playing the 
following warriors:
• The Redeemer 
(with the Gifts 
«Aura of Cou-
rage» and «Aura 
of Precogni-
tion»);
• A Condemned Blade 
for Hire with a Blun-
derbuss;
• Condemned Blade for Hire;
• A Condemned Brute;
• One Advantage Card (picked 
randomly).
 DEMON PLAYER’S FORCES
The Demon player begins the game with 4 TP. During the 
game, they can send in up to 2 Underground Hunters (but 
never both at the same time).
 SCENARIO SET-UP
Set aside the Exit and Pentacle Room tiles, and mix up the 
rest of the tiles to make up the stack.
The Pentacle Room tile is placed in the center of the table. 
All the Human warriors are placed on it.
 CONDITIONS OF VICTORY
The Human player wins if they can get 2 of their warriors 
to the Exit tile. The Demon player wins if they manage 
to eliminate all the Human warriors. Any other result is 
considered a draw.
 SPECIAL RULES
 A BREATH OF FRESH AIR
To ﬁ nd their way out, the Humans are following a tiny draft 
of fresh air that leads towards the exit. At the beginning 
of the game, place the Die of Fresh Air (10-sided) next to 
one of the openings of the Pentacle Room, showing a score 
of 1.When that opening is explored, the score on the die is 
incremented, and the Demon player places the die next to 
an unexplored opening on the new tile. When the score on 
the die reaches 10, instead of picking a random tile, the Exit 
tile is used.
The Human player 
has just explored 
opening (A). The Die 
of Fresh Air is on a 
score of 3.
The Demon player 
therefore positions 
tile (B) and places 
the die with a score 
of 4 next to one of 
the two openings 
(1) or (2).
A
Preparing for Play 
 3 Hole in the Ground tokens
A specific type of tile (Hole in the Ground) 
requires the use of these tokens.
 2 Tough Troglodyte tokens
Two Event cards (Tough Troglodyte) require 
the use of these tokens.
 1 Courage token
One of the Redeemer’s gifts (Courage) 
requires the use of this token.
 1 Blessing token
One of the Redeemer’s gifts 
(Blessed) requires the use of 
this token. The two sides of the 
token are different.
 4 Treasure tokens
One of the Scenarios (Who Dares, 
Wins) requires the use of these 
tokens. The back of one of the tokens 
is different from the other three.
 3 Seal of Protection tokens
One of the Scenarios (The Ritual) requires 
the use of these tokens.
 1 10-sided die
Some scenarios require the use of this 
die.
 12 6-sided dice
Numerous processes of the game (initia-
tive, threat, combat, etc.) require the use 
of these dice. Unless otherwise specified, 
when a die roll is required in Claustro-
phobia, it should be performed with a 
6-sided die.
 1 Rule Book
You are holding the Rule Book right now. It also contains 
the adventures (scenarios) that you can experience during 
a game of Claustrophobia.
 Preparing for 
Play 
The first step is for both players to look at the book of sce-
narios and choose one of them to play. For your first game, 
I suggest you play the scenario called «The Survivors». 
For the following games, you can either pick a scenario at 
random, or choose one that both players agree on. Each 
scenario presents you with a specific layout of the mate-
rials for the game you are about to play. Whatever scenario 
you choose, before setting up the game, the packs of Event 
cards and Advantage cards should be shuffled separately 
and placed in two separate decks, face down.
It is quite possible that a special rule in the scenario may 
contradict one of the basic rules of the game. If this occurs, 
the special rule is always the one to follow.
Before each game, make sure you place the Reference cards 
for the Human warriors in their card stands.
Scenario background text
Human player’s forces
Demon player’s forces
Scenario set-up
Special rules
Conditions 
of victory

At the beginning of his activation, the 
Redeemer can choose to trigger this Gift. 
The next tile to be played during this 
round will be secretly chosen from the 
next 3 tiles in the stack. Furthermore, 
you choose the orientation of that tile. 
The remaining 2 tiles are put back on 
the stack in the order of your choice.
20/08/0
 Playing the 
Game
Each game is divided into a series of rounds, which are in 
turn divided into 4 phases to be carried out in order.
 Initiative Phase
During this phase, the Human player will determine the 
stats of their warriors.
 Human Player’s Action Phase
During this phase, the Human player’s warriors will move, 
explore the tunnels and combat Troglodytes and Demons.
 Threat Phase
During this phase, the Demon player will bring the Demons 
and Troglodytes into play, improve their abilities and draw 
Event cards.
 Demon Player’s Action Phase
During this phase, the Demon player’s Troglodytes and 
Demons will move and fight.
 Initiative Phase
During this phase, the Human player will determine the 
statistics of their warriors for the current round. To do this, 
the player rolls as many Action Dice (six-sided) as they 
have active warriors. Then the player must select a die for 
each warrior and place it on that warrior’s Reference card, 
in the space marked for this purpose. This die selects which 
Line of Action will be used by this warrior until the begin-
ning of the next Initiative Phase. During that time, the Line 
of Action will be the one to define the warrior’s stats.
The die chosen for this warrior has a score of 2.
Therefore the player places the die in the relevant square.
His statistics are: MVT 1 (abbreviation of Movement), CBT 2 
(abbreviation of Combat) and DEF 4 (abbreviation of Defense).
The Redeemer usually has two Gifts, mentioned in the des-
cription of each scenario, which can be added to some of the 
Lines of Action of their reference card.
The Redeemer has the Gift «Aura of Precognition».
This number indicates the score on the Action Die that will allow 
them to use their gift.
Every time the score chosen for them is 5, then they can use this Gift. 
Furthermore, the stats will be the ones stated on Line of Action number 
5 (MVT 1, CBT 1 and DEF 5), as they would for any other warrior.
If a warrior receives a die score that matches a Line of 
Action that has been canceled (see Combat, page 13), they 
will not be able to act normally during the Action phase 
that follows and will have a DEF of 3 until the next Initia-
tive Phase. In this state, a warrior is considered to be too 
disoriented, stunned, or wounded to act properly, and has 
both an MVT and a CBT of 0. They no longer have any 
Talents and do not benefit from any of the advantages lin-
ked to their Objects (excepting the Scepter of Command). 
The warrior is said to be Exhausted. However, they 
can still be affected by bonuses to their stats that come 
from special rules or Advantage cards. If the Redeemer 
is Exhausted and the canceled Line of Action is one that 
triggers one of their Gifts, that Gift is no longer usable.
The die chosen for this warrior has a score of 2.
Unfortunately, that Line of Action was canceled during a combat.
The warrior can no longer move or fight, and will be an easy target 
for their enemies (DEF 3).

As long as this warrior is 
alive and in the game, roll 
1 extra Action Die during 
each Initiative phase.
SCEPTER OF COMMAND
If the number of dice rolled is higher than the number of 
Human warriors still in play, any dice that are not asso-
ciated with a warrior are set aside and are not used again 
during that round.
The Human player rolled 3 Action Dice, as they still have the 
Redeemer, carrying the Scepter of Command and a Condemned 
Blade for Hire.
The Redeemer is given a score of 3.
The Blade for Hire is given a score of 4.
The last die is set aside and is not used again during that round.
 Healing
The effects of certain cards can «heal» a previously cance-
led Line of Action. In this case, the corresponding Damage 
token should be removed. If the line that has just been 
healed, is the line designated by the warrior’s Action Die 
in the Initiative phase, then they are no longer considered 
to be Exhausted and can act normally. 
 Human Player’s Action Phase 
During this phase, each of the Human warriors will be able 
to perform their actions. The Human player must activate 
their warriors one at a time. Each warrior must have finished 
their activation before the next warrior can be activated. 
During their activation, a warrior can either move first and 
then engage in combat, or engage in combat first, then move. 
Neither movement nor combat are required. A warrior can-
not begin to move, engage in combat, and then finish their 
movement. The rules for movement and combat are descri-
bed in detail on pages 11 and 13 respectively.
 Advantage Cards 
In general, the description of each scenario grants the 
Human player the use of a given number of Advantage 
cards. These cards can be used at the time stated in their 
description (and must then be discarded). The Human 
player can’t draw any more Advantage cards once the 
game has begun.
 Objects 
Some warriors can carry and use Objects that improve 
their statistics or give them special abilities. The warriors 
cannot exchange objects, put them down, pick them up, or 
destroy them in any way. The Objects are removed from 
play only when their owner is killed or leaves the game.
 Threat Phase 
The Demon player rolls 3 Dice of Destiny (six-sided), and 
positions them in the Destiny square or squares of their 
choice, following any restrictions that may apply and imme-
diately applies the relevant effects to the chosen Destiny 
squares. If a tile or a card allows them to roll a greater num-
ber of Dice of Destiny, then they can place them all on their 
Board of Destiny.
The Calm Before The Storm allows the Demon player to roll 
an extra Die of Destiny during their next Threat phase.
Sounds From The Deep allows the Demon player to gain Threat 
Points (TP) that they can either choose to save for later or spend to 
play their warriors.
Supernatural Speed, They Are Legion and Sharpened 
Claws allow the Demon player to improve the stats of their Troglo-
dyte warriors.
Dark Destiny allows the Demon player to draw one or more 
Event cards from the deck.
A Taste For Blood and Burrowing Monsters makes the 
rules for introducing the Demon player’s warriors much more flexible. 
Please note: if you combine both Events, Troglodytes and Demons can 
enter the game on any of the tiles in play.
Resistance Is Futile will limit the Movement of the Human war-
riors while improving that of the Troglodytes.
Trap will cause damage to a Human warrior.
Abilities printed in red can only be selected once per game.
There are no limitations for the Abilities printed in black.

All the Dice of Destiny must be applied to the Board of Destiny before the effects they trigger can be resolved.
with an even score must be 
placed in this square.
To apply this effect, any number of 
dice with a total score of 12 or more 
of dice with a total score of 9 
of dice with a total score of 11 
must be placed in this square: 
one with an even score and 
one with an odd score.
with an odd score must be 
placed in this square.
To apply this effect, one die 
To apply this effect, one die with a score of 
3 or more must be placed in this square.
All the dice placed in this square must 
have either all odd or all even scores.
of dice with a total score of 7 

The Demon player is leaving the Human player alone for a round. 
They will use this round to reinforce their strength.
The Dice of Destiny score 2, 3 and 4.
The Demon player tries to catch and slaughter the Human warriors 
who are running away.
Having chosen the result «The Calm Before The Storm» during the 
previous round, they roll 4 dice instead of 3.
The Dice of Destiny score 1, 1, 4 and 6.
They therefore place 
a die in this square. It has a 
score of 3 or higher. They can 
then pick an Event card and 
add it to their hand.
They then place two dice in 
this square. Both of them have 
even scores. The player therefore 
gains 4 TP, which will allow 
them to send in 4 Troglodytes 
during a later round (they could 
very well send them into play 
during the current round but 
choose to wait and launch a 
larger-scale attack later on).
Then they place 2 dice with 
even scores in this square. The 
Troglodytes are now Frantic! 
That will be a sure advantage 
for the coming round.
The Demon player places 
2 dice with odd scores in this 
square. The Troglodytes receive 
a bonus of +1 MVT.
Once the Dice of Destiny applied and their effects resol-
ved, the Demon player can send their warriors into the 
game. Each Troglodyte costs 1TP. The Demon player can 
also send in a Demon by paying 5 TP (check the scenario 
details to see the demons’ statistics). They can be placed 
on one or several tiles, but the Tunnel Size Rule must be 
applied (see Movement, page 11) and the following restric-
tions also apply:
•	 The tile must have at least one unexplored opening.
An opening is considered «unexplored» if it leads to a part of 
the catacombs that is not yet represented by a tile.
• The tile must be empty of Human warriors.
Warriors that are sent into play during the Threat phase 
can act normally during the following Action phase.
Warriors cannot be sent into play on tile (A), as it doesn’t have any unexplored openings.
Warriors cannot be sent into play on tile (B), as it has a Condemned Brute on it already.
On the other hand, tile (C) can be used to send in one or more warriors.

 Event Cards
The Dark Destiny result of the Board of Destiny allows 
the Demon player to draw an Event card. This card can 
be kept in his hand or used at the time indicated in its 
description (and must then be discarded).
The Demon player can keep as many Event cards in his 
hand as he wishes.
 Demon player’s Action phase 
The Demon player’s Action phase is almost identical to 
the Human player’s Action phase except for one thing: the 
Demon player’s warriors can never explore any openings 
(see Exploration, page 12)
Movement is always optional. Every time a warrior moves, 
they can spend all or part of their MVT score. Leaving a 
tile to move to the next tile connected by an opening costs 
1MVT. However there are two important restrictions to 
take into account:
•	 Tunnel Size Rule: a tile cannot contain more than 3 war-
riors from each side.
•	 Blocking Rule: a warrior can only leave a tile containing 
enemy units if there are at least as many warriors from 
their side as there are enemies.
The Redeemer cannot move from tile (A) to tile (B) because they are not 
connected by a common opening.
The Troglodyte (A) cannot move to tile (B) because it already contains two 
Troglodytes and a Demon.
Two Condemned 
Brutes want to leave 
tile (A). The first one 
can move normally 
as the tile contains 2 
Troglodytes. 
The Troglodyte can leave tile (A) because it only 
contains one Condemned Blade for Hire.
After the first Brute has moved, the second cannot leave the tile, as they are now in 
inferior numbers.

Exploring
 Exploring 
During their movement, a human warrior can spend 1MVT 
to explore a nearby opening and therefore reveal a new 
tile. While doing so, they must apply the Blocking Rule 
(see Movement, page 11). The procedure goes as follows:
• The Human player draws the first tile from the stack and 
gives it to the Demon player.
• The Demon player places the new tile in contact with the 
explored opening, any way they like, as long as the new 
tile is accessible to the warrior exploring it.
• The Human player then places their warrior on the new 
tile.
• Any effects the tile may have are triggered (see Special 
tiles, page 24).
• The Human warrior may continue to move if they still 
have any remaining MVT score.
 Dead Ends 
If, after exploring an opening, the board is left with no 
more unexplored openings, the last tile to have been pla-
ced is discarded and a new tile is drawn, and so-on until an 
unexplored opening appears.
This Condemned Brute cannot explore in direction (A) 
because there is no opening there,however they can explore 
in directions (B) and (C).
The new tile can be positioned in several different ways.
Forbidden
Allowed
Allowed
Forbidden

When a warrior engages in combat, the procedure is as 
follows:
• The player controlling the warrior that initiated the attack 
must choose which of the enemies on the same tile they 
are going to target. Exception: all Troglodytes present 
on the same tile count as a single target.
• The player rolls a number of Combat Dice equal to the 
warrior’s CBT score. Each die with a score higher than 
or equal to the selected target’s DEF score is counted 
as a hit.
• The player that controls the warrior or warriors that have 
been hit must then resolve the hits:
For Troglodytes, the resolution is simple, since a single hit is enough to kill 
a Troglodyte. The miniature is removed from the game. If several hits are 
achieved, a Troglodyte is killed for each one.
For Demons, each hit enables the Human player to place a Wound token 
on its Reference card. As soon as the number of Wound tokens on its card 
becomes equal to or greater than its Health score, the Demon is removed 
from the game.
For Human warriors, each hit requires the Human player to select a Line 
of Action which will then be canceled. Then they place a marker in the 
relevant Damage square. Once all 6 Lines of Action of a Human warrior 
have been canceled, they are declared dead and their miniature is remo-
ved from the game.
 Damage Effects
If a canceled Line of Action matches the Action Die that the 
warrior was given during the Initiative phase, they are not 
yet considered to be Exhausted. A warrior is only Exhaus-
ted if they are given an Action Die that matches a previously 
canceled Line of Action during the Initiative phase.
During this round, the Condemned Brute has a CBT score of 3. The Human 
player therefore decides to target the Troglodytes positioned on the same 
tile. They roll 3 dice and score 2, 3 and 6. The DEF score of a Troglodyte is 
3. Two hits! 
The Demon is attacking their opponent. They have a CBT score of 
4, so the Demon player rolls 4 dice. They score 1, 2, 4 and 5, which 
means 2 hits, as the Condemned Brute’s DEF score is 4. The human 
player chooses to place their markers in Damage squares 4 and 6 of 
the Brute’s Reference card.
Two Troglodytes are removed from the game.
Important
No matter what bonuses they have received, a warrior’s 
DEF score can never be higher than 6.

Talents
 Ranged Combat
Some weapons (Grenade, Blunderbuss) allow warriors to 
attack one or more targets on an adjacent tile. For such an 
attack to be possible, the attacker’s tile and the target’s tile 
must be connected by an opening.
 Talents
Some warriors have Talents which give them extra abili-
ties during the game.
 Elusive
A warrior with this Talent can move without taking into 
account the number of enemy warriors (they are therefore 
not affected by the Blocking Rule).
 Frantic 
A warrior with this Talent can re-roll each Combat die 
once if it did not produce a hit the first time (if its score 
was inferior to the DEF score of its target).
 Bodyguard 
Every time an allied warrior on the same tile is hit by an 
attack, a warrior with this Talent can choose to suffer the 
effects of that hit in their place.
The Condemned Blade for Hire can attack the Troglodytes on tile (A) with their Blunderbuss, but not the Demon on tile (B), since there 
is no opening between that tile and the Blade for Hire’s tile (C).
Important
A Human warrior cannot use any Talent while they are 
considered to be Exhausted.
Because of their 
Elusive Talent, this 
Blade for Hire can 
leave tile (A) even 
though it contains 3 
Troglodytes.
The Demon has 
just attacked the 
Redeemer and scored 
2 hits. The courageous 
Condemned Brute 
standing on the same 
tile as the Redeemer 
decides to take the 
effects of one of these 
hits for himself. The 
Human player must 
therefore place one 
marker in a Damage 
square of the 
Redeemer’s Reference 
card, and one in a 
Damage square on 
the Brute’s Reference 
card.

At the beginning of his activation, the 
Redeemer picks a target among the 
Condemned warriors. This warrior 
will gain +1 MVT, +1 CBT and
+1 DEF until the beginning of the 
next Initiative phase. Mark the
chosen warrior with the Courage token.
At the beginning of his activation, 
the Redeemer can heal a Line 
of Action of his choice for one 
of the Condemned warriors 
positioned on the same tile as 
him. Remove the token from 
the relevant Damage square.
Aura of Healing
effect if the warrior 
is Exhausted.
SHIELD OF STEEL
brute
effect if the warrior 
is Exhausted.
SHIELD OF STEEL
brute
Handicaps / Scenarios for Experienced Players 
 Impressive
A warrior with this Talent can prevent an enemy from lea-
ving the tile that they are currently on (except for the Hole 
in the Ground tile). If an Elusive warrior is on the same tile 
as one or more Impressive enemies, the two Talents cancel 
each other out and the normal Blocking Rule applies to all.
 Blessed 
A warrior with this Talent can, during the Initiative phase, 
after the Action Dice have been applied, provide support 
to another warrior of their choice. The chosen warrior can 
choose to gain a either a bonus of +1 MVT or +2 CBT until 
the end of the following Action phase. Place the Blessing 
token, showing the appropriate side, on the relevant war-
rior’s card stand.
Furthermore, if the Line of Action that the warrior was 
using is canceled, it is immediately healed.
This talent can only be used once per scenario. Discard the 
Blessing token at the end of the Action phase during which 
the Talent was used.
Now you’re ready to play!
 Handicaps
If both players are not of the same level of experience (a 
young fledgling versus an old-timer, for example), you can 
apply certain handicaps to better balance out the games 
and scenarios.
 Handicaps for the Human Player 
These options make the game simpler for the Demon 
player:
•	 Before the game begins, the Demon player removes the 3 
following cards from the deck of Event cards: 1 «Lost» and 
2 «Panic!» cards. By removing the harder cards to play, 
they have a better chance of drawing a card that will be 
really useful to them.
• The Demon player begins the game with 3 extra TP.
 Handicaps for the Demon Player 
These options make the game simpler for the Human 
player:
• The Human player draws one extra Advantage card.
• The Human player can choose one extra Gift for the 
Redeemer.
 Scenarios for 
Experienced 
Players 
After having played the same scenarios several times, expe-
rienced players will begin to tire of them, and will want to 
make the game more interesting. This special rule is desi-
gned for them! The game is played in the usual fashion, 
but the set-up will change in the following way: a reverse 
auction will take place, with a starting price of 21 points. 
The next player to bid must always bid a lower value. The 
player to bid the lowest value wins the auction, and will 
play the Humans. They will have to assemble a team with 
the value equal to their winning bid. The cost of each team 
element is as follows:
•	 Redeemer (maximum 1): free and mandatory;
•	 Gifts (maximum 4): 2 points per Gift;
•	 Condemned Brute or Blade for Hire (maximum 2 of 
each): 3 points per warrior;
•	 Objects: 2 points per card (chosen from all available 
cards);
•	 Advantage cards: 1 point per card (drawn randomly 
from the deck of all available cards).
The Objects must be given out to the warriors before the 
game begins. The human player must apply the restric-
tions stated on each Object’s card (for example, a Blunder-
buss can only be used by a Condemned Blade for Hire or 
by the Redeemer).
The Demon has the 
Impressive Talent and is 
accompanied by a Troglodyte. 
The Blade for Hire wishes 
to leave the tile, but their 
Elusive Talent is canceled 
out. The usual Blocking Rule 
therefore applies: They will 
have to kill at least one of 
the enemy warriors before 
they can move. 
You have just won the auction with 
a budget of 17 points and you 
want to build up a particularly 
solid team that will be focusing on 
defense rather than attack. Your 
selection is therefore the following: 
The Redeemer, with Gifts «Aura of 
Courage» and «Aura of Healing» 
(4 points), two condemned 
brutes, each with a Shield of 
Steel (5 points each) and finally, 
you draw 3 Advantage cards.

Special tiles / Glossary / Credits
 Stash
The effects of these tiles depend on the sce-
nario you are playing. If nothing is speci-
fied in the scenario, the tile has no effect.
 Hungry Tunnels
Each time a warrior standing on this tile 
is hit during a combat, the effects of that 
hit are doubled, while the tunnel’s tenta-
cles greedily suck their blood. Therefore, 
each hit obtained on this tile can: kill 2 
Troglodytes, cause 2 Wound tokens to 
be added to a Demon’s Reference card, 
or make the Human player place mar-
kers in 2 Damage squares of the targeted 
warrior. The effects of this tunnel are not 
taken into account when resolving the 
effects of a Grenade.
 Tight Tunnel
This tile can only hold one warrior from 
each side instead of the usual 3.
 Flooded Tunnel
When a warrior enters this tile, they must 
immediately end their Movement (even 
if his MVT potential is not fully used up). 
Leaving this tile will cost a warrior their full 
MVT potential.
 Booby-Trapped Tunnel
The first time a human warrior enters this 
tile, the Demon player rolls a die and applies 
the following effects:
Nothing happens
	2-3	
The warrior suffers 1 hit.
The warrior immediately ends their 
Movement.
Place a Troglodyte on this tile.
The warrior suffers 2 hits.
 Demonic Mechanism
During the next Threat phase, the Demon 
player rolls one extra Die of Destiny. This 
effect is only triggered the first time a 
Human warrior enters this tile.
 Pentacle Room
This tile can hold 5 warriors per side ins-
tead of the usual 3.
 Exit
This tile can hold 5 warriors per side ins-
tead of the usual 3.
 Lair
The Demon player can always make Troglo-
dytes appear on this tile.
 Hole in the Ground
When this tile is played, the Demon 
player must place a Hole in the Ground 
marker on another tile already in play. 
The Troglodytes can spend 1MVT to 
move between a tile with a Hole in the 
Ground to another tile that has a Hole. 
This action is considered to be a Move-
ment, but the Blocking Rule and the 
Impressive Talent have no effect on it.
 
Asmodee editions LLC 35 Gateway Drive suite 301 Plattsburgh NY 12901 USA 
Damage Square: space in which a 
Damage token can be placed and which 
shows the area hit by damage for a human 
warrior.
CBT: abbreviation of Combat. One of the 
three statistics that define the warriors of 
Claustrophobia.
Action Die: A six-sided die rolled by the 
Human player during the Initiative phase. 
This die defines the stats of the Human 
warriors.
Combat Die: A six-sided die rolled by 
either player during their Combat phase. 
This die defines the effects of an attack.
Die of Destiny: A six-sided die rolled by 
the Demon player during the Threat phase. 
Amongst other things, this die defines the 
stats and special abilities of the troglodytes.
DEF: abbreviation of Defense, one of the 
three statistics that define the warriors of 
Claustrophobia.
MVT: abbreviation of Movement, one of 
the three statistics that define the warriors 
of Claustrophobia.
Exhausted: state of a Human warrior who 
rolls an Action die that causes a Line of 
Action to be canceled. An Exhausted war-
rior is practically defenseless. (see initiative 
phase, page 7)
Frantic: Talent possessed by certain war-
riors (see Talents, page 14)
Bodyguard: Talent possessed by certain 
warriors (see Talents, page 14)
Elusive: Talent possessed by certain war-
riors (see Talents, page 14)
Impressive: Talent possessed by certain 
warriors (see Talents, page 15)
TP: abbreviation of Threat Point. They 
represent the military strength of the 
Demon player. It will cost them a given 
number of Threat Points to play each of 
their warriors (Troglodytes or Demons).
Blocking Rule: one of the two rules that 
restrict the warriors’ movements.
Tunnel Size Rule: one of the two rules 
that restrict the warriors’ movements.
Blessed: Talent possessed by certain war-
riors (see Talents, page 15)
 Special tiles 
Some tiles carry special rules that are good to know and resolve when a warrior sets foot on them.
 Glossary and Abbreviations
 Credits
	
Game created by 	
CROC.
	
introductory novels	
Thomas Hervet.
	
Many improvements added by 	
Emmanuel Beltrando.
	
Additional ideas	
Frédéric Frugier.
	
Play tests and scenario balancing	
Philippe Villé, François Moreau, 
Philippe Masson et Gilles Reynaud.
	
Technical proofreading	
François Doucet et Alexandre Quicroix.
	
Corrections	
Yann Arndt.
	
Cover	
Aleksi Briclot.
	
Graphic design	
Stéphane Gantiez.
	
Illustrations	
Bertrand Benoît.
	
Original sculpture	
Jacques-Alexandre Gillois, Thomas David et Michaël Bigaud.
	
Master painting	
Jérôme Otremba.
Visit www.asmodee.com for new scenarios and hints and tips on how to play.