®

A Brief History Of The World’s 
Favorite Mystery Game
 In 1946, a solicitors’ clerk from Birmingham, England, paid a visit to the firm of 
Waddington Games Ltd., in Leeds. Anthony E. Pratt and his wife had come, with a 
couple of game-inventing friends, to present their idea and prototype of a mystery 
detection game to the game manufacturers. They met and played the game with some 
Waddingtons employees while the firm’s managing director looked on.
 Fortunately for all of us, in 1949, Parker Brothers brought the 
game to America. Since 1991, the CLUE® brand has been 
marketed by Hasbro and the much beloved murder mystery 
game continues to entertain fans around the world. 
NOTE: The character biographies, 
background stories, information regarding 
Mr. Boddy’s manor and the layout of the 
Clue Master Detective gameboard have all 
been reprinted as they were in 1988 when 
Clue Master Detective was first marketed. 
Characters have evolved and stories have 
changed since then, but for the purposes of 
this game, we have chosen to keep them the 
same as they were in 1988.
Happy Sleuthing!
Colonel Mustard,
Ret., D.S.O., B.E.F., Q.E.I.
 Algernon Mustard, late of the Bengal 
Lancers, held regimental honors as a 
marksman with both elephant gun and 
small caliber pistol; after he was mustered 
out, he stayed on in the Punjab. The 
Colonel has travelled halfway around the 
world to see Mr. Boddy on a matter of 
grave importance, or so he says.
 But why does Mustard sleep with a 
revolver under his pillow?
All line illustrations are from the original British edition of CLUEDO.

Mrs. Peacock
 After single-handedly saving the 
loggerhead shrike from extinction, 
amateur ornithologist Henrietta Peacock 
next turned her beady eye on the pied-bill 
grebe. Having spotted a pair nesting near 
the manor house, she came to beseech 
Mr. Boddy to create a bird sanctuary by 
donating his entire estate to the Peacock 
Salvation Society, of which she is founder 
and sole member.
 Does Mrs. P. have her eye on more 
than the grebe?
Why “CLUE”?
 
 That’s elementary, my dear Watson! Because the object of the game is to collect 
enough clues to solve the mystery.
 But when this classic game was created in England, it was called “CLUEDO.” Now 
that one takes a bit more explaining.
 What we Americans call PARCHEESI, Britons call LUDO (pronounced “lew-doh”), 
which simply means, “I play” in Latin. So when Waddingtons Games Ltd., agreed to 
produce Anthony Pratt’s new board game, they made a play on the words: “LUDO” 
became “CLUEDO.” And in more than 40 countries around the world, it’s known as 
either CLUEDO or by the American CLUE name.

Profesor Plum
 Edgar Plum, Ph.D., head of 
the Archeology Department at a 
correspondence school, came to the 
manor to solicit financing for a bone-
hunting expedition to an un-named 
Middle Eastern country. He knows just 
where to unearth a prehistoric skeleton 
to rival the Piltdown Man–he says he can 
feel it in his bones.
 But why does the Professor clam up 
whenever anyone digs into his past?
Who’s Who? 
	
 Speaking of names, how do you suppose 
Mrs. Peacock and Colonel Mustard fare in other 
nations? You’d be surprised–because she is a he, 
and he is a she!
 In Norway, Mrs. Peacock is called Baronesse 
von Blauw, but in Spain she’s Capitano Azurro, 
a man. And Colonel Mustard is known to the 
Swiss as Madame Curry.
 In Germany, the exotic Miss Scarlet is called Fraulein Ming. 
In Switzerland she’s got a more ordinary name, Evelyne Rose, 
but she does have the distinction of being the only CLUE 
suspect in the world whose suspect card bears a first name!*
 Spanish players call Professor Plum, our absent-but-
murderously-minded professor, Dr. Mandarino. Meanwhile, 
the Swiss have more insight into his character: They call him 
Docteur Dunkel!
 And what of our resident corpse, whom we Americans aptly 
call Mr. Boddy? The Britons who invented him call him Dr. Black. In Spain he’s Dr. 
Lemon. In Switzerland, either Herr Kludo or Monsieur Cluedo, depending on which 
part of the country you’re from. But the U.S.’s special set of Spanish rules have hit the 
nail on the head: They call him Sr. Caddaver!
 What would the rest of the world make of our four new suspects-Sergeant Gray, 
Madame Rose, Monsieur Brunette, and the lovely Miss Peach?
* In our Suspect Dossiers we’ve given most of our perpetrators first names–to help flesh out their characters!

Miss Scarlet
 Called the Mercenary of Macao– but 
never to her face–the sultry and sinister 
Scarlet will entertain any proposition 
that makes her a profit. After reading a 
how-to piece in the Society of Fortune 
Hunters Quarterly, she decided to try her 
hand at gold digging. 
 But could the price of gold be 
murder?
The Manor of Murders
	
 Since 1949, when the CLUE game was introduced in the U.S., the unfortunate 
Mr. Boddy has been murdered daily at the Boddy Mansion. In the CLUE MASTER 
DETECTIVE version, he’ll meet his end at his little country place, Boddy Manor.
 In this new game, there are three additional possible murder locations and some 
other new rooms as well, as befits a man of Mr. Boddy’s stature. But, despite concern 
expressed by fans over the years, there are still some amenities we have not added to his 
house - but other countries have.
 Specifically, for years Parker Brothers has been asked where everyone sleeps, since there 
are no bedrooms. Concerned players also wonder why such an elegant house has never 
had a bathroom. Well, the compassionate Spanish and the efficient Swiss have taken care 
of both. Dr. Lemon–alias Herr Kludo or Monsieur Cluedo–as they call him, has both a 
bedroom and a bathroom in their versions of the game. Since for years he’s had a garage 
in Spain, at his CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE estate we’ve added a Carriage House, 
complete with a couple of horses–always handy for a cross-country get-away!

Mr. Green
 Thallo Green, reputed kingpin in the 
“family” business, is a whiz at numbers, 
but he finds himself dangerously short 
of cash at the moment. He figured he’d 
get out of the jam with Mr. Boddy’s help. 
 Did he make him an offer he couldn’t 
refuse?
What’s behind the CLUE
Game’s Popularity?
	
 Ask many people their favorite type of book; they might allude to the latest Nobel 
Prize winner’s tome on their bedside table. But interrogate them further, and they’ll 
confess they love a good mystery! But why do people love a good mystery? Could it 
be the foreign locales? The fascinating perpetrators and suspects? The sheer ingenuity 
of the writer who pulls all the personality quirks and clues together to present a neat 
solution at the end? Bestselling mystery novelist Mary Higgins Clark has said: “I like to 
see justice triumph. My sense of orderliness demands it. The world is chaotic. There’s 
catharsis in having order restored. That’s why so many people read mysteries.”*
* From an interview in the Boston Globe

Mrs. White
 The maid at Boddy Mansion since 
before the War–she won’t divulge which 
one–Blanch White has seen ‘em come 
and go. Trouble is, she’s seen ‘em when 
and where they weren’t supposed to be 
comin’ and goin’.
 Did she finally spy something that 
made her see red?
But whether you’re a fan of Ms. Clark and 
Agatha Christie or prefer the psychological 
probings of Patricia Highsmith… whether 
you think Dick Francis is on the right track or you 
like your sleuths hard-boiled, like Raymond Chandler’s Sam 
Spade or Robert B. Parker’s Spenser… or whether you’d rather put your 
feet up and watch Perry Mason or Sherlock Holmes solve the crime on TV, there’s 
no lack of good mysteries to choose from. They provide escape and enjoyment, as you 
use your little grey cells to collect clues along the way and try to figure out Whodunit 
before the author tells all at the end.
 For decades, mystery devotees have had but one motive for playing the CLUE–
and now CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE –games: You get to pretend you’re Sherlock 
Holmes, Nancy Drew, Charlie Chan, and Miss Marple, all rolled into one. And there 
are so many possibilities of Who, Where, and With What Weapon, that the mystery 
changes every time you play. You can experience the escape and enjoyment of playing 
a game while you’re solving a problem by asking the right questions, collecting the 
right information, and making the correct deductions in order to solve the mystery. 
Unlike other games, these two depend on a lot more than blind luck to win.
 So, as that Belgian master detective Hercule Poirot would say, “Let’s exercise our 
leetle grey cells.” Then he might just add:
“Let’s solve a CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE mystery!”

M. Brunette
 Monsieur Alphonse Brunette deals in 
art and arms. Last year he almost made 
a killing in Paris when he produced what 
he swore were the missing appendages 
of the Venus de Milo. But this year, 
his business is on its last legs due to 
the questionable authenticity of several 
Impressionist works he sold to Mr. 
Boddy. He claimed they were paintings 
by Monet–or was it Manet? As Alphonse 
always says, “Monet… Manet… What is 
zee difference?”
Rules for Play
	
OBJECT: Mr. Boddy of Boddy Manor has met with grave misfortune: He’s been 
murdered by a person unknown, somewhere in or around the manor house, with an as-
yet-undetermined weapon. It’s up to you, the CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE player, to 
determine Whodunit? Where? With what weapon?
 Even if you’re a veteran clue-finder, you’ll have to exercise your “little grey cells” to 
solve each CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE mystery, because now there are 10 possible 
perpetrators, 12 possible scenes of the crime, and 8 possible weapons.
 So put away your violin, put on your deerstalker hat, fill your meerschaum pipe, and 
start sleuthing! If you’re a master detective, the solution will be elementary!
EQUIPMENT: Gameboard showing 13 locations inside and outside Mr. 
Boddy’s manor house * 10 Colored tokens, each representing a suspect * 2 Dice * 8 
Weapons * Pack of 30 illustrated cards: 10 Suspects, 12 Locations, 8 Weapons * Pad of 
Detective Notebooks * Envelope marked “Case File - CONFIDENTIAL”
SETUP:
1.	 Each player selects a token representing one of the Suspects. All tokens are placed in 
the Cloak Room to start, regardless of the number of players. (The murder never 
occurs in the Cloak Room–it’s the 13th Location.)
2.	 Regardless of the number playing, bring out all 8 Weapons and place them together 
in a spot off the playing board. You’ll learn when to use them later.
3.	 Sort the pack of 30 cards into three piles–Suspects, Locations, and Weapons. 
Shuffle the three groups separately and put them face down on the board; select 
the top card from each and, without looking, slip these three cards into the “Case 
File–CONFIDENTIAL” envelope, and set it aside. The envelope now contains the 
answers to the questions: Who? Where? How?
4.	 Mix the remaining cards together and shuffle them well. Deal them all out, starting 
with the player on your left. Some players may receive more cards than others; this doesn’t 
matter. With these cards in your hand, you have begun your investigation because you 
know that if you hold these cards, they can’t be in the CONFIDENTIAL envelope.
5.	 Each player takes a sheet from the Detective Notebook pad and folds it in half–to 
keep the information secret from the other players. If you wish, mark on the pad all 
the cards you hold in your hand. 
6.	 Each player rolls the dice; play will proceed to the left, and the highest roller starts.
	
In the words of the greatest master detective of them all, Sherlock Holmes: 
“The game is afoot!”

Miss Peach
She arrived at Mr. Boddy’s door without 
an invitation–or luggage–and announced 
that she’s his long-lost great-step-niece, 
Georgia. When pressed, she explained 
that she decided on very short notice to 
take a long vacation in the country–any 
country!
GAMEPLAY:
	
NOTE: Aside from its additional Suspects, Locations, and Weapons, the CLUE 
MASTER DETECTIVE game includes a feature not found in the classic CLUE game. 
It’s the “Snoop Spaces”–those squares marked with a spyglass on the board. 
Before you begin to play, be sure to read the section below that tells you how to snoop.
	
Your objective is to move around Mr. Boddy’s manor, going in and out of the 12 
possible murder Locations. Each time you enter a room or an outside location, you 
may “Make a Suggestion” and gather valuable information about what cards are in your 
opponents’ hands. When you have figured out what cards each of the other players 
holds in his or her hand, and knowing what’s in your own hand, you can deduce which 
three cards are in the Case File by process of elimination.
	
So set off on the trail of the murderer by…
Moving Your Token: On each turn, move towards, into, or through one of the 
12 Locations by 1) rolling the dice, or 2) using a Secret Passage, or 3) a combination of 
both.
1.	 Rolling. If you roll the dice, move that number of spaces, either horizontally, 
vertically, forwards, or backwards (but not diagonally). You may change directions as 
many times as your roll will allow; however, you may not enter the same square more 
than once on the same turn. You may not land on a square occupied by another 
token: If your dice roll would land you there by exact count, you must stop one space 
behind the other player’s token; if you rolled a higher number, jump over the other 
token, counting the occupied space as part of the roll, and move the total number of 
spaces rolled.
2.	 Secret Passages. These Locations are connected: Drawing Room and Conservatory; 
Library and Kitchen; and Basement Stairs and Garden Walk. If you are in any one 
of these spots at the beginning of a turn and wish to use the connecting passage, 
announce that you’re going to do so, and move your token to the Location at the 
other end of the passage.
3.	 Combination. You may also use a Secret Passage as part of a roll of the dice. Roll 
and move your token into the Location where the passage starts; move through the 
passage, counting it as one space, and exit into the Location at the other end; either 
stay there or complete your move by exiting.
When Entering or Leaving a Location…
•	You do not have to land in a Location by exact count.
•	Do not count a door as a space.
•	You may pass through a Location on a turn, counting it as one space. However, you 
may not leave a Location if you have made a suggestion on that turn.
•	You may not re-enter a room on the same turn.

Sgt. Gray
 The local enforcer literally stumbled 
on the scene of the crime while 
making his regular weekly visit to the 
manor collecting funds for the Police 
Blackmail Awareness program. Could 
his unimaginative approach to crime stem 
from the fact that Gray always sees things 
as either black or white?
	
Snoop Spaces: Nine spaces on the board are marked by a spyglass that looks like 
this: As part of your move, you may land on one of these spots and “Snoop” 
an opponent. Announce which player you want to “Snoop,” then draw one of his or her 
cards, sight unseen, look at it, mark what you’ve learned on your Detective Notebook 
sheet, and give the card back. If you have not used up your dice roll, continue your move.
MAKING A SUGGESTION: 
	
Once you’ve entered a Location, you may–and should–make a suggestion in order to 
learn what cards your opponents hold. To do so, move a Suspect token (one being used by 
another player or a spare one from the Cloak room) and a Weapon of your choice into the 
Location. You may, of course, name your own token as a Suspect. Now suggest that the 
murder was committed in that Location by that Suspect with that Weapon.
	
For example: “I suggest the crime was committed by Miss Peach in the Gazebo with 
the Poison.”
EXTRA HINTS ON MAKING SUGGESTIONS:
1.	 You may, if you wish, make a Suggestion and an Accusation on the same turn.
2.	 After entering one of the Locations, you may make only one Suggestion. 
To make another, you must wait until another turn when you are in a different 
Location or, sometime after your next turn, re-enter the Location you most recently 
left. You may not forfeit a turn to remain in a particular spot.
3.	 You may make a Suggestion that includes a Weapon and/or Suspect token 
that’s already in your location. If you do need to move a Weapon or token into place, 
leave them there after your Suggestion; do not move them back where they were 
before you moved them.
4.	 If another player moved your token to a new Location in order to make a 
Suggestion, on your next turn you may either move out of that Location in one of 
the usual ways, or you may make a Suggestion from that Location. If the latter, you 
do not roll the dice or move your token.
5.	 There is no limit to the number of Suspect tokens or Weapons that may be in 
one Location at the same time.
PROVING A SUGGESTION: 
	
Beginning with the player on your left, make your Suggestion. If he has any one of 
the cards mentioned in your Suggestion, he hands you that card; if he has more than one 
of the cards you asked for, he selects which one to show you. Look at the card, mark 
the information on your Detective Notebook, then return the card.
	
If you’ve been shown a card or not, move on to the next player and make your 
Suggestion again. If she holds one of the three cards in your Suggestion, she shows it 
to you; again, if she holds more than one you mention, she selects which one to show. 
Proceed around the table, asking each player.
	
If none of the other players has the cards you asked for, you may either end your 
turn, OR you may make an Accusation. 

Madame Rose
 Mr. Boddy’s eccentric former 
secretary, Rhoda Rosengarten changed 
her name when she moved to Hungary to 
hang out her shingle as a medium. Last 
week, in the midst of a seance, she “saw” 
a dark, ominous cloud descending on 
Boddy Manor and took a tramp steamer 
from Budapest in order to warn her old 
employer. She didn’t make it in time–or 
did she? 
Making an Accusation: 
“When you have elminated the impossible, whatever remains, however 
improbable, must be the truth.”
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
-Sherlock Holmes 
	
When you think you’ve solved the mystery, you may, on your turn, make an 
Accusation. Announce that “It was (Suspect) in the (Location) with the (Weapon).” 
Now, look at the cards in the Case File envelope. If you’re right on all three counts–
Whodunit, Where and How–YOU WIN!
	
If you’re wrong about any of the cards, put the cards back in the envelope–without 
letting anyone else see them. You’ve lost your chance to win, and you take no more 
turns yourself. But you still answer Suggestions made by remaining players, and others 
may still move your token into locations when they make Suggestions.
	
Remember: To make a Suggestion, you must be in the Location you name. To make 
an Accusation, you may name any Location without actually being in that place.
STRATEGY HINTS FOR THE SUPER SLEUTH:
1.	 Don’t Forget to Snoop. Especially when your dice roll is large enough to snoop and 
enter a Location on the same move.
2.	 Making Suggestions. You may want to name one or more of your own cards in order 
to gain information–or mislead your opponents.
3.	 Proving a Suggestion. It is possible on one turn to be shown all three cards; however, 
this is not an advantage, because all the players heard you make your Suggestion, and 
everyone will know that those three cards are not in the Case File envelope. This is 
another reason you may want to include one of your own cards in the Suggestion.
4.	 Your Detective Notebook. Be sure to note what you’ve learned on your Detective 
Notebook. You may find it helpful to put the initials of which players showed you 
which cards.
5.	 Sneaky Move. If an opponent’s token appears to be heading to an important 
Location, on your turn you may want to include that Suspect in a Suggestion in order 
to move him or her away from that Location.
WINNING: 
	
The first player who correctly names all three cards in the Case File envelope wins, 
and lays the cards face up on the table as proof.

We are happy to answer your questions or receive your comments about the 
CLUE MASTER DETECTIVE Game.
Contact us:
Winning Moves Games
75 Sylvan Street Suite C-104
Danvers, MA 01923
Phone: 1-800-664-7788 ext. 114
Fax: 978-739-4847
Email: wmoves@winning-moves.com
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and compliance 
please visit http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety
Additional Detective Notebook Sheets are available for download at: 
winning-moves.com/rules
Item #1213
HASBRO, The HASBRO GAMING name and logo, CLUE and all related characters 
are trademarks of Hasbro and are used with permission. © 2017 Hasbro. All 
Rights Reserved. WINNING MOVES, WINNING MOVES GAMES, and CLASSIC, 
RETRO, COOL, & FUN, and Logos thereof, are registered trademarks of Winning 
Moves Inc. © 2017 Winning Moves Inc., 75 Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, 
MA 01923 USA. All Rights Reserved. Manufactured by Winning Moves Inc., 75 
Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, Danvers, MA 01923 USA. Colors and parts may vary. 
MADE IN CHINA.