Introduction
“There is nothing wrong with change, if it is 
in the right direction.”
– Winston Churchill
The end of World War II has brought chaos and confusion to the 
nations of the world as two new global superpowers – the USA 
and USSR – each seek the upper hand.
In Cold War: CIA vs. KGB, agents on both sides of this worldwide 
conﬂ ict attempt to “persuade” foreign governments to embrace 
the “proper” ideologies. These shadowy operatives will resort to 
any means necessary – dirty tricks, devious ploys, underhanded 
machinations, and outright treachery – to ensure their side 
emerges victorious.
Welcome to the covert world of spies, assassins, and proxy 
wars.
Welcome to the Cold War.
Game Components
DIRECTOR
Immediately claim the 
objective on the bottom of 
the objective deck.
No effect.
12 agent cards
(6 CIA, 6 KGB)
Détente: Discard this objective to look at 
the next three cards on the objective deck 
and then replace them in any order you 
choose.
SPACE RACE
CZECHOSLOVAKIA
OBJECTIVES
21 objective cards
(15 nations, 6 events)
Look at the top card on 
the group deck, then 
recruit it, discard it, or 
leave it where it was.
NEWSPAPERS
Steal a group from your opponent 
or give him one of yours. You may 
not make either player exceed the 
objective’s population limit, nor 
make your opponent exceed the 
objective’s Stability.
OPPOSITION
MAFIA
24 group cards
(6 military, 6 economic,
6 media, 6 political)
2 domination tokens
(1 CIA, 1 KGB)
1 balance token
1 rulebook
(this booklet)
KGB SCORE
CIA SCORE
2 score cards (1 CIA, 1 KGB)
2 score tokens

The Object of the Struggle
In each game turn, which represents one year of conﬂ ict, a 
single country or event (represented by an objective card) 
becomes the focus of a covert ideological clash between 
the USA and USSR. Each player sends an undercover agent 
(an agent card) to spearhead its activities, inﬁ ltrating and 
manipulating the locals (group cards) to gain the upper hand 
in that struggle. By prevailing, players claim the objective 
cards, and score victory points. The ﬁ rst player to accumulate 
100 victory points wins the game.
Setup
First, shufﬂ e the objective cards and place them facedown in 
the center of the table. This is the objective deck.
Next, shufﬂ e the group cards and place them facedown in the 
center of the table. This is the group deck.
Then, each player takes either the six CIA agent cards or the 
six KGB agent cards and places them in a stack, facedown, in 
front of him. This stack is called that player’s headquarters. 
Both sides are equal, but if both players want the same one, 
choose randomly.
Finally, each player takes his corresponding domination token 
(blue for the CIA, red for the KGB), score card, and score 
token.
Then, the ﬁ rst game turn begins.
Game Turns
Each game turn is divided into six phases:
Brieﬁ ng
1. 
Planning
2. 
Inﬂ uence Struggle
3. 
Cease-ﬁ re
4. 
Debrieﬁ ng
5. 
Détente
6. 
Each phase is described in detail in the sections that follow.
Example: George and Boris start a game. They shufﬂ e the 
objective and group decks, choose the predictable sets of agent 

cards (CIA for George, KGB for Boris), and take the corresponding 
domination tokens, score cards, and score tokens. They taunt one 
another and prepare to play.
Phase 1: Brieﬁ ng
The Brieﬁ ng phase of each game turn sets the table for that 
year’s struggle. There are three stages to each Brieﬁ ng phase.
Determine the Objective
Flip the top card from the objective deck faceup (leaving it 
on top of the objective deck). This card becomes the object 
of conﬂ ict for the game turn. It is frequently called the 
“objective.”
Most objective cards represent nations over which the 
superpowers struggle, but some are event cards, which represent 
2 BIAS ICONS 
3 POPULATION
4 STABILITY 
5 SPECIAL ABILITY 
6 VICTORY POINTS
CUBA
Cease-fire: Upon causing civil disorder, 
discard this objective to prevent your 
Agent X from being terminated. He goes 
on leave instead.
NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
OBJECTIVE CARDS
Event Card
Nation Card

other arenas in which the USA and USSR ﬁ ght for domination. 
Event cards give the players who win them the option to use 
special abilities. See “Event Card Special Abilities” on page 15 
for more information.
Assign the Balance Token
The player with the lowest victory point score takes the balance 
token. If there’s a tie, the player who lost last turn’s Cease-ﬁ re 
phase takes it. If both players caused civil disorder last turn, 
the balance token remains with its current owner.
On the ﬁ rst turn of the game, the balance token is assigned 
randomly. To do this, one player hides the token in one of his 
closed ﬁ sts. If the other player can guess which hand it’s in, the 
guessing player takes the token. If the guessing player is wrong, 
the hiding player keeps the token.
The player who has the balance token will choose which player 
goes ﬁ rst in the Inﬂ uence Struggle phase.
Shufﬂ e the Group Deck
One player shufﬂ es the last game turn’s group card discards 
back into the group deck, then the other player cuts the group 
deck, and ﬁ nally the newly randomized group deck is replaced 
in its position in the center of the table. (This isn’t necessary 
in the ﬁ rst game turn.)
If either player successfully used his Analyst in the previous 
game turn, he then looks at the top three cards of the group 
deck and replaces them in the order of his choice.
Example: Boris and George reveal their ﬁ rst objective, ﬂ ipping 
Cuba faceup from the top of the objective deck. George hides the 
balance token in his right hand, but Boris guesses that it’s in 
his left, so George keeps it. They don’t need to shufﬂ e the group 
deck, since this is their ﬁ rst turn.
Phase 2: Planning
In the Planning phase, each player chooses one of his agents 
to send into the ﬁ eld and ﬁ ght for the game turn’s objective. 
The agent card each player chooses becomes his Agent X for 
the remainder of the game turn. Each player keeps his Agent X’s 
identity secret, and places that card facedown on the table in 
front of him, separate from his headquarters.
A player can choose any of the agents in his headquarters 
as his Agent X. However, agents who were sent on leave in 

the previous game turn (due to the Double Agent’s agenda, 
for example) are not at headquarters, and can’t be chosen as 
Agent X. Likewise, agents who’ve been terminated (due to the 
Assassin’s agenda, for example, or because they caused civil 
disorder) are no longer in play, and also can’t be chosen.
Note that if a player successfully used his Double Agent’s 
agenda in the previous turn, he may be allowed to see the 
identity of his opponent’s Agent X before he chooses his own 
Agent X.
Once both players have chosen their Agents X, agents on leave 
return to their respective headquarters, ready for assignment in 
future game turns.
Example: George decides to play aggressively, choosing his 
Assassin as his Agent X. He places that card facedown in front of 
him. Boris opts for a more devious plan, choosing his Master Spy 
as his own Agent X, and places it facedown in front of him.
Phase 3: Inﬂ uence Struggle
During the Inﬂ uence Struggle phase, each player draws group 
cards, which contribute to his running score of Inﬂ uence 
points. Each player is trying to accumulate an Inﬂ uence total 
as close as possible to the objective’s Stability score, but 
without exceeding it. 
But each player must also try to see through his opponent’s 
play, because the identity of each player’s Agent X may later 
2 INITIATIVE 
3 AGENDA
DIRECTOR
Immediately claim the 
objective on the bottom of 
the objective deck.
No effect.
AGENT CARDS

tip the struggle’s outcome in a surprising direction. Is your 
opponent trying to lose on purpose, because his Master Spy will 
turn the tables? Or is he just trying to fool you into thinking 
that?
The player with the balance token decides which player goes 
ﬁ rst. On each player’s turn to act, he must choose one of these 
three options:
Recruit a group, 
by drawing the top card from the group 
deck and placing it faceup in front of him.
Activate a group, 
using the power described on one of the 
group cards already in front of him.
Pass, 
and do nothing for the moment. 
A player who has no group cards in front of him must always 
choose the “recruit a group” option. He may neither activate a 
group (obviously) nor pass.
Recruit a Group
To recruit a group, a player simply takes the top card from the 
group deck and places it faceup in front of him.
A group on the table in front of a player can be in one of 
two states: ready or mobilized. When ready groups are 
mobilized, they’re turned sideways, to the horizontal position. 
When mobilized groups are readied, they’re turned back to the 
vertical. Newly drawn groups always begin in the ready state. 
GROUP CARDS
READY STATE
MOBILIZED STATE
2 INFLUENCE
3 FACTION 
4 POWER

Ready and mobilized groups both contribute their Inﬂ uence 
when determining which player will win the objective.
A player may never recruit a group if it would make him exceed 
the number of population icons on the current objective (see 
the objective cards diagram on page 4). This is true even for 
unusual recruitment due to an event card special ability; see 
“Live Beneﬁ t,” for example. A player may draw a card that 
would give him a number of groups equal to the number of 
population icons.
Activate a Group
This action allows a player to use the power of one of his 
previously recruited groups.
First, the player mobilizes the group of his choice, turning it to 
the horizontal. If a group is already mobilized (i.e., sideways), 
it can’t be mobilized again until it is somehow readied again 
ﬁ rst.
Then, the player follows the instructions on that particular 
group card. These instructions are that group’s power. Each 
group that’s part of the same faction – military, economic, 
media, or political – has the same power as the other groups in 
its faction. Each faction’s power is described below.
Military cards can destroy other group cards in play. A 
given military card can destroy any other group card in 
play, on either player’s side, but can never destroy 
itself. Destroyed group cards are placed faceup in a discard pile 
next to the group deck. Players may not look through this stack 
of discards.
Political cards can switch the allegiance of another 
group card in play, moving it from one player’s side of 
the table to the other’s. A player may not do this, 
however, if it would make the receiving player’s number of 
groups exceed the objective’s population icons. A player may 
also not do this if it would make his opponent’s Inﬂ uence total 
exceed the objective’s Stability (or if his opponent’s Inﬂ uence 
already exceeds the objective’s Stability). A player may, 
however, move one of his opponent’s groups to his own side in 
violation of the objective’s Stability. Such a move is risky, but 
legal. Groups moved between players retain their current state, 
ready or mobilized.

Economic cards can switch the state of another group 
card in play. This can make a mobilized card ready, or 
a ready card mobilized. (In the latter case, the group’s 
power does not take effect.) The exception is that one economic 
card cannot affect another economic card with its power.
Media cards allow a player to look at the top group 
card on the group deck, and then choose to discard it 
to the group deck’s discard pile, put it faceup in front 
of him (like the “recruit a group” action), or leave it facedown 
on top of the group deck.
Pass
A player who doesn’t want to do anything at the moment can 
pass. Usually, players pass when they think they can win the 
current objective without any additional changes to their 
situation.
A player may choose to pass, and then choose some other 
action later on, assuming the Inﬂ uence Struggle phase doesn’t 
end in the meantime. That is, once a player passes, he need not 
pass in future actions in the same Inﬂ uence Struggle phase.
Whenever both players pass one immediately after the other, 
the Inﬂ uence Struggle phase ends.
Example: George has the balance token, and decides to act ﬁ rst. 
He begins without any group cards in front of him, so his ﬁ rst 
action must be to recruit a group. He draws “Opposition” (5 
Inﬂ uence, political faction) and puts it in front of him, in the 
ready position.
Boris, also lacking any groups, must also recruit. He draws 
“Industry” (4 Inﬂ uence, economic faction).
Next, George chooses to activate his “Opposition” group’s power 
to steal Boris’s “Industry” group. He mobilizes “Opposition,” 
turning it sideways, and moves “Industry” to his own side of the 
table. His running Inﬂ uence total is now 9. “Industry” remains 
in the ready state.
It’s Boris’s turn to act. He has no group cards, so must again 
choose to recruit. He draws “Newspapers” (4 Inﬂ uence, media 
faction).
George’s action is next. He activates “Industry,” mobilizing it, to 
turn Boris’s “Newspapers” to their own mobilized state.

CIA SCORE
GEORGE
Inﬂ uence: 9
INDUSTRY
Steal a group from your opponent 
or give him one of yours. You may 
not make either player exceed the 
objective’s population limit, nor 
make your opponent exceed the 
objective’s Stability.
OPPOSITION
FOOD COMPANIES
KGB SCORE
Look at the top card on 
the group deck, then 
recruit it, discard it, or 
leave it where it was.
NEWSPAPERS
MAFIA
BORIS
Inﬂ uence: 9
EXAMPLE: END OF THE INFLUENCE STRUGGLE
1 OBJECTIVE DECK 
 
2 GROUP DECK
3 AGENT X 
 
4 HEADQUARTERS
5 DOMINATION TOKEN 
6 BALANCE TOKEN
7 SCORE CARD AND TOKEN 
8 GROUPS
CUBA

Boris acts again. He recruits a new group, drawing “Maﬁ a” (2 
Inﬂ uence, economic faction).
George, considering his next move, thinks his running score of 
9 Inﬂ uence gives him a good chance to win this struggle, so he 
chooses to pass.
Boris, whose running score of 6 Inﬂ uence is not going to cut it, 
activates his “Maﬁ a” card to ready his “Newspapers” card.
George passes again.
Boris mobilizes “Newspapers” to look at the top card of the group 
deck. It’s “Food Companies” (3 Inﬂ uence, economic faction). 
He chooses to take it, and puts it in front of him in the ready 
position. Boris and George now both have 9 Inﬂ uence.
George passes again, and Boris does the same. Since both players 
have passed successively, the Inﬂ uence Struggle phase ends.
Phase 4: Cease-ﬁ re
In the Cease-ﬁ re phase, the results of the Inﬂ uence Struggle 
are determined.
First, the player with the highest Inﬂ uence total that does not 
exceed the objective’s Stability score puts his domination token 
on the objective. Remember that both ready and mobilized 
groups contribute their Inﬂ uence. A player whose inﬂ uence 
total is equal to the objective’s Stability is not considered to 
be exceeding it.
If the players’ Inﬂ uence totals are tied (and do not exceed the 
objective’s Stability), the tie is broken by the bias icons on 
the objective (see the objective cards diagram on page 4). The 
bias icons on each objective include one icon for each faction, 
presented in decreasing order of size, connoting decreasing 
order of the factions’ relative importance in that nation or 
event.
Address the most important (i.e., largest) faction ﬁ rst. The 
player with the highest value group from that faction wins the 
tie. If neither player has any groups of that faction, the next 
most important (i.e., the next-largest) faction is addressed. 
This continues until the tie is broken. The player in whose 
favor the tie was broken places his domination token on the 
objective card.
Any player whose Inﬂ uence total exceeds the objective’s Stability 
causes civil disorder. When this happens, the indiscriminate 

Agent X’s superiors disavow all knowledge and abandon their agent 
to his doom. That Agent X’s identity is revealed and the agent 
is terminated (i.e., removed from the game). Furthermore, that 
player’s opponent immediately claims the objective. The exception 
is the Deputy Director, who, rather than being terminated, instead 
returns immediately to his headquarters.
However, if both players cause civil disorder, both Agents X 
are revealed and terminated (again, with the exception of the 
Deputy Director). The current objective is placed at the bottom 
of the objective deck (facedown), and will not be claimed by 
either player.
Example: George and Boris both have 9 Inﬂ uence. They see that 
Cuba’s bias icons are – from greatest to least – economic, military, 
political, and media. George and Boris begin by comparing their 
largest group of the economic faction. George’s “Industry” has 
Inﬂ uence 4, while Boris’s “Food Companies” only has Inﬂ uence 
3. George wins the tie without the need to compare military, 
political, or media values. George puts his blue domination token 
on Cuba.
Phase 5: Debrieﬁ ng
In the Debrieﬁ ng phase, the agendas for surviving Agents X 
are resolved.
First, each player reveals his Agent X. (Unless, of course, his 
Agent X was terminated due to civil disorder.)
Next, the agendas of the Agents X are read and applied in 
initiative order, from the lowest initiative score (1) to the 
highest initiative score (6). (See the agent cards diagram on 
page 6.) Some agents’ agendas have different effects depending 
on which player’s domination token was placed on the objective. 
When effects differ, the effect in the red box is carried out if the 
KGB player placed his domination token, and the agenda in the 
blue box is followed if the CIA did. Other agents’ agenda effects 
are the same no matter which side prevailed. Remember, do not 
resolve agendas for agents terminated because of civil disorder.
The six different agent agendas are:
The Master Spy
 (Initiative 1) is a master of confusion and 
misdirection. He maintains his adversary’s conﬁ dence just 
long enough to steal the objective for his own side. He 
causes the objective to be claimed by the player who did 
not place his domination token on it.

The Deputy Director
 (Initiative 2) is an anonymous 
bureaucrat who takes unpredictable risks in the ﬁ eld 
but is generally incompetent. He has no effect on which 
player claims the objective, but always manages to survive 
termination (even when he causes civil disorder) and 
never goes on leave (instead returning immediately to 
headquarters after his deployment).
The Double Agent 
(Initiative 3) sleeps anonymously in the 
enemy hierarchy, waiting for the order to take decisive 
action or pass along sensitive intelligence. He either 
sends a rival agent from his opponent’s headquarters 
immediately on leave, or allows his player to see his 
opponent’s Agent X in the next game turn’s Planning phase 
before he chooses his own Agent X. The latter is allowed 
even if the Double Agent is subsequently terminated by 
his opponent’s Assassin. If two Double Agents face each 
other, only the agenda of the one whose domination token 
was placed fulﬁ lls his agenda.
The Analyst
 (Initiative 4) ﬁ nds the seeds of future crises in 
the intelligence he examines. He allows his player to look 
at the top three cards of the group deck in the next game 
turn’s Brieﬁ ng phase and replace them in any order he 
chooses. If two Analysts face each other, only the agenda 
of the one whose domination token was not placed fulﬁ lls 
his agenda. 
The Assassin
 (Initiative 5) lies in wait for the enemy’s 
Agent X, ignoring all else, his only mission to make sure 
his counterpart meets his destiny. If his side places its 
domination token, the enemy Agent X is terminated 
(removed from the game) and the objective is sent to the 
bottom of the objective deck.
The Director
 (Initiative 6) is a mastermind who keeps 
the greater conﬂ ict ﬁ rmly in mind at all times. When he 
involves himself in a struggle personally, he reveals only 
a small portion of a much larger plot. If his side places 
its domination token, he manages to win an additional 
objective, above and beyond the current struggle!
After Agent X agendas are resolved, if neither player has claimed 
the objective, the player who placed his domination token on it 
claims it, puts it on his scoring pile, and advances his scoring 
token on his scoring card to reﬂ ect the newly gained points.

Finally, the domination token from the objective is returned 
to its owner.
Example: George and Boris reveal their Agents X. Boris played 
his Master Spy (Initiative 1) and George chose his Assassin 
(Initiative 5).
The Master Spy is resolved ﬁ rst. The color of the domination 
token on the objective is blue (USA), so according to Boris’s 
Master Spy’s agenda, Boris claims the objective. He moves the 
Cuba card to his scoring pile.
Next, George’s Assassin’s agenda is addressed. Since the color 
of the placed domination token is blue (it doesn’t matter that 
Cuba has already been claimed), Boris’s Agent X – his Master Spy 
– is terminated and removed from the game. However, because 
Cuba has already been claimed, the second part of the Assassin’s 
agenda (“...the objective is put on the bottom of the objective 
deck”) is not relevant and is simply ignored.
Finally, George takes his domination token back.
Phase 6: Détente
Détente is a primarily a record-keeping phase.
First, each player’s Agent X goes on leave (unless that Agent 
X was terminated, or that Agent X is the Deputy Directory, 
who never goes on leave and instead returns directly to 
headquarters). An agent who goes on leave is placed faceup 
beside his player’s headquarters, and can’t be chosen as Agent 
X next turn.
Next, each player updates his score card, moving his score 
token to reﬂ ect any objectives he claimed this turn.
Finally, if neither player has achieved 100 victory points – 
thus winning the game – the next game turn begins with the 
Brieﬁ ng phase. If both players have 100 or more victory points, 
the player with the greater total wins. If there’s a tie, play 
additional game turns until the tie is broken.
Example: Boris’s Master Spy has been terminated, so he has 
been removed from the game rather than going on leave. George 
sends his Assassin on leave, placing that card faceup next to his 
headquarters.
Boris claimed Cuba, so he advances his score token to reﬂ ect his 
10 victory points. George hasn’t claimed any objectives yet, so he 
leaves his score token at zero.

Since neither Boris nor George has won the game, the next game 
turn begins.
Event Card Special Abilities
Each event card has a special ability printed on it, each of 
which allows the player who claimed that card to take an 
unusual action during play.
Event card special abilities are played during various phases of 
the game turn, as noted on each individual event card. To use 
an event card’s special ability, simply announce that you are 
doing so (in the appropriate phase, of course), and resolve its 
effects as described.
If using a special ability results in multiple discards (as “Nuclear 
Escalation” does, for example), the player who used that special 
ability may put them on the discard pile in any order.
After using an event card’s special ability, its victory points are 
lost for good. The player who played the card must discard it 
to the objective deck’s discard pile and immediately update his 
score token to reﬂ ect his reduced score.
Winning the Game
The object of Cold War: CIA vs. KGB is to score 100 victory 
points. The ﬁ rst player to have 100 victory points in the Détente 
phase is the winner. If both players achieve 100 or more victory 
points in the same Détente phase, the player with the greater 
total wins. If there’s a tie, additional game turns are played 
until one player has a higher total during a Détente phase.

Credits
Game Design: David Rakoto and Sebastien Gigaudaut
Graphic Design: David Rakoto
Layout and Additional Graphic Design: Edge Studio
www.edgeent.com
Packaging Design: Andrew Navaro 
Cover Artist: Daniel Rudnicki
English Translation: David Rakoto and Sebastien 
Gigaudaut
English Editing and Proofreading: Jeff Tidball and 
James Torr for Fantasy Flight Games
Publisher, English Edition: Christian T. Petersen
English edition published and distributed by Fantasy 
Flight Publishing, Inc.
www.fantasyﬂ ightgames.com
Guerre Froide is ©2007 UBIK. Guerre Froide is a trademark of UBIK, 
all rights reserved. The English edition, Cold War: CIA vs. KGB, is 
©2007 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Cold War: CIA vs. KGB is a 
trademark of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved.