COLORETTO
a game by Michael Schacht
for 3 to 5 players aged 8 and up.
OVERVIEW
The players draw cards from a card supply in the middle of 
the table.During the game, the players try to specialize in a 
few colors, as at the end of the game, a player can score plus 
points for only 3 colors; the rest score minus points. The more
cards a player has of a color, the more points he scores.
The player with the most points wins.
CONTENTS
63 color cards (9 cards each in 7 colors), 10 "+2" cards, 
1 "last round" card, 3 jokers, 5 row cards, 
5 summary cards, and 13 blank cards.
PREPARATION
- Place one row card for each player in the game in the middle 
of the table.
Place the unused row cards back in the box. They will not be
used in the game.
- Each player takes one summary card. Place the rest in the box.
- With 3 players, remove the cards of one color from the game.
- Each player takes one card of another color and places it on
the table in his play area.
- Remove the "last round" card from the deck and set it aside
for now.
- Shuffle the remaining cards face down and place them as a 
supply face down in the middle of the table.
- Now deal 15 cards from the
supply face down in a stack.
Place the "last round" card
on top of this stack of 15
cards. Then, place the rest of 
the card supply on top of
this.
- The players choose a starting
player by lot.
PLAYING THE GAME
On a players turn, he must do one of the two following 
actions:
A. draw and place a card or
B. take a card row
Then the player's left neighbor takes a turn.
When each player has taken a card row, the round ends and 
a new round begins.
A. draw and place a card
The player draws the top-most card from the supply and 
places it face up next to any of the row cards.
Players may place at most 3 cards next to a row card.
When there are 3 cards next a row card, a player may not 
place another card next to the row card.
When all row cards have 3 cards next to them, a player 
may not choose this action. The player must then take a 
card row.
color 
 
+2 
 
last round 
 
joker 
row 
 
 
summary

B. take a card row
The player takes any of the row cards and all the cards next
to it and places them face up in his play area. The player then 
sorts the cards by color.
If a player has taken a joker, he sets it aside for now.
He must decide which color to place it with at the end of the
game, but not sooner.
A player may only take a row card if it has at least one card 
next to it.
After a player has taken a card row in a round, he takes no
more turns in this round, but plays again in the next round.
When a player has taken a card row, he has a row card in his
play area, so that all can see that he can take no more turns
in this round.
End of a round
When every player has take a card row, the round ends.
 
Place the row cards back in the middle of the table and begin
the next round with the player who took the last card row in
the round just ended.
GAME END AND SCORING
When the "last round" card is drawn, this indicates this is
the last round. Place the card to the side to remind all 
players. Then the player draws the next card.
At the end of the round, the players decide which color 
their jokers ar (each may be different).
Each player counts the cards he has in each color. The table
below shows the number of plus or minus points a player
scores for the number of cards in each color.
A player score no extra points for more than 6 cards in a color.
Each player chooses which 3 of his colors score plus points.
All other colors score minus points for the player.
 
Each "+2" cards scores 2 plus points.
Andreas has 1 Joker, 1 "+2" card, 6 green cards, 4 yellow 
cards, 3 red cards, and 2 blue cards. As he already score the
most he can for his 6 green cards, he places his joker with 
his yellow cards.
Andreas scores 2 ("+2") + 21 (green) + 15 (yellow) 
+ 6 (red) - 3 (blue) = 41 points.
The player with the most points after four games is the winner!
 
Graphics: Michael Schacht
© 2002 ABACUSSPIELE Verlags GmbH & Co. KG, 63303 Dreieich
All Rights Reserved. 
Made in Germany
cards 
points
each "+2" 
+2
The blank cards are not used with this game, but may be
used in other games like Knights.