As
commanded by the Emperor, the greatest celebration in Roman history has continued
unabated for 99 days. All of Rome has borne witness to the grandest spectacles the
empire has ever seen - all to commemorate the opening of the Amphitheatrum Flavium
- 
the Colosseum. Tens of thousands have flocked to the city to experience the sight of a hundred
gladiators in battle... rare and exotic animals prowling the arena floor... and to hear and see the greatest
musicians and entertainers from throughout the empire. But these events have only been a prelude to
today - the closing finale! As a master impresario you have prepared for this moment your entire life.
Titus himself has taken his seat in the Emperor’s Loge. At the drop of his hand, the final spectacle will
begin. Your moment in the sun has come...
In Colosseum you act as a Roman impresario - producing great spectacles in your arena in the hope of attracting
the most spectators to your events. You'll earn wealth and glory for each event you run, using it to build ever
more ambitious events. Attract the most spectators to one of your events and you'll be granted the title of Grand
Impresario, with tales of your extraordinary spectacles acclaimed throughout the empire.
For 3 – 5 players 
ages 10 and above
60–90 Minutes

COMPONENTS
Inside the box you will find:
• 1 Rules Booklet
• 1 Game Board
• 10 Arena pieces (5 different colors)
• 10 Arena Expansion pieces (5 different colors)
• 5 Emperor's Loges
• 10 Season Tickets
(each worth 5 additional 
spectators)
• 5 Scoring Markers
• The Emperor, 2 Consuls 
and 3 Senators (Nobles)
• 2 Dice 
• 80 Roman Coins 
(in denominations 
of 1, 2, 5, 10, 50)
• 4 Podiums (each worth 
3 additional spectators)
• 152 Event Asset Tokens 
(40 with a green back and
112 with an orange back)
• 7 Star Performer Awards
• 30 Event Programs
• 18 Emperor Medals
• 6 Event Summary Sheets
• 1 First Player Token
• 1 Game Turn Counter
• 1 Storage Bag 
SETTING UP THE GAME
Place the game board in the center of the table.
Prior to playing for the first time, punch out all the Roman coins and place them alongside the board. 
These make up the public bank that will be used throughout the game.
Arena with Expansion
Season Ticket
Emperor Medal
Emperor’s Loge
Podium
First Player
Token
Star
Performer
Game Turn
Counter
Green 
Asset Token
Orange
Asset Token
Senator Consul Emperor
∏
π

Punch out the Podiums, the Emperor Medals and the Star Performer Awards and put them within reach
next to the board along with the 2 dice, the 10 Arena Expansion Pieces, the 5 Emperor's Loges, and the 
10 Season Tickets. ∂
Hand a Summary Sheet, a Scoring Marker, 2 Arena pieces of matching color, and coins worth a total of 
30 to each player. ∑Place the Scoring Markers at the starting position of the spectator scoring track along
the outside of the board. ∏
Punch out all of the Event Asset Tokens and separate those with a green back from the tokens with an
orange back. Mix the green backed tokens, and fill the 5 markets on the board by placing 3 tokens 
face-up in each market. π
Depending on the number of players, distribute a
number of green backed Event Asset Tokens to each
player as follows:
• 3 players – 8 Asset Tokens each
• 4 players – 6 Asset Tokens each
• 5 players – 5 Asset Tokens each
Place your Event Asset Tokens face up in front of you
along with your Roman coins. ∫
If it is a 3 or 4 player game place the one
remaining green back token face-down next
to the board. Then Place the orange back
Event Asset Tokens in the bag next to the
board.
The starting position of each player's Arena
changes depending on the number of players.
Place the Arenas on the board in the positions
indicated in the illustrations on the right for
the number of players in the game.
Place the Emperor, the 2 Consuls and the 3
Senators on their respective starting positions
(the colored squares on the path) ª. Their
starting positions are also used as resting
areas to make traveling less of a burden. Each
of the squares represents a step upon the
route traveled by these Nobles as they visit
the different arenas.
Take the Event Programs that are numbered
from 1 to 5, mix them up, and hand out one
to each player. Repeat this distribution with
programs numbered from 6 to 10. Each player
should have 2 programs in hand - one with a
number from 1 to 5 and one with a number from 6 to 10. 
These 2 Event Programs are placed face up next to the coins and the Event Asset Tokens of
each player, within view of the other players. º
If there are any Event Programs numbered 1-10 remaining, remove them from the game.
Put the Event Programs in numbered order from 11 to 30 and place them 
in 2 stacks of matching length next to the board. Ω
Place the game turn counter on the first position on the board. æ
You are now ready to start playing.
3 Players
4 Players
5 Players
Ω
æ

The object of the game is to produce extraordinary
events that attract the most spectators to your arena. 
More spectators attending your events will bring you
additional wealth and glory. The money you earn will help
you acquire new assets such as fearless gladiators,
powerful lions and magnificent horses that you will use
to produce even more glorious events during future turns.
However, to produce these more ambitious events you
will need to improve your arena by adding new
expansions, purchasing Season Tickets, or even building
an Emperor's Loge to make your arena more inviting to
him and the other Nobles.
During the game each player will have the opportunity
to produce up to 5 events. The player that attracts the
highest number of spectators to any of her 5 events is
declared the winner.
THE GAME TURN
The game consists of 5 game turns, each composed of 5
distinct phases:
• Phase 1: Investing
• Phase 2: Acquiring Event Asset Tokens
• Phase 3: Trading Event Asset Tokens
• Phase 4: Producing an Event
• Phase 5: Closing Ceremonies
Each phase is optional; a player can pass without doing
a specific phase.
On the first game turn, the player whose
arena is immediately to the left of the
Emperor takes the First Player token and
begins by performing her Phase 1 actions.
Proceeding clockwise, each remaining player then
completes his or her actions in the first phase. Once all
have completed a phase, the starting player, then begins
the next phase. Play continues with each player having an
opportunity to participate in each phase before the next
phase begins.
At the start of each new game turn, the game turn
counter is moved to the next position. The player
immediately to the left of the starting player from the
previous game turn takes the First Player token and
becomes the new starting player.
The game ends after phase 4 of the 5th game turn.
PHASE 1: INVESTING
In this phase each player can make one and only one of
the following investments:
• Buy a new Event Program
• Expand the Arena
• Purchase a Season Ticket
• Construct an Emperor's Loge
Note: While a player is normally limited to making only
one investment during each turn, she may make an
additional investment by turning in 2 Emperor Medals.
See the Emperor Medals section, page X.
Buying a new Event Program
At the beginning of the game each player received 2 Event
Programs. To create more ambitious programs, players
can purchase additional programs during the Investment
phase. The new program they purchase must have a higher
number than the previous one they have produced. 
The Event Programs provide the information needed to
create an event, including its cost in coins that must be
paid to the bank immediatly; the size of arena and the
type and number of assets required to produce it; and
the potential number of additional spectators it could
attract when performed, depending on how complete
the performance is.
The following illustration shows you where to find all the
pertinent Event Program information. 
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Program Number
Required
Assets
Required
Arena
Size
Earnings 
if all Assets
are available
Earnings if missing one Asset
Program Name
Purchase Cost

Expanding your Arena
To produce some of the more ambitious
events, a player must invest to expand her
arena. To purchase an Arena Expansion, a
player pays the value of 10 coins to the
bank and receives an Arena Expansion
piece. At the player's option, the arena can
be expanded in either direction. 
At the start of the game
each arena occupies 2
squares on the route.
After the first expansion
an arena encompasses 3
squares. An arena can be
expanded twice to include
as many as 4 squares. 
However a player can
only expand once per
turn (unless spending 2 Emperor Medals to make a
second investment. See Emperor Medals, p. X). 
Purchasing Season Tickets
Players may also invest by purchasing
a Season Ticket which ensures 5
additional spectators for each up-
coming event. 
To purchase a Season Ticket, a player pays the value of 10
coins to the bank. Place the
Season Ticket in your arena. 
While only 1 Season Ticket
can be purchased per turn
(unless using Emperors
Medals to make a second
investment) a player can add
multiple Season Tickets to
an arena as long as Season
Tickets are still available.
Constructing the Emperor's Loge
Having the Emperor (or a Consul or
Senator) in your arena is always an honor.
Constructing an Emperor's Loge will
increase the chances of attracting these
luminaries to your events. To construct an Emperor's
Loge pay the value of 5 coins to the bank and add it to
your arena. Having an Emperor's Loge gives the player the
ability to roll 2 dice, instead of 1, when producing the
event (see Producing an Event, page VI). An arena can
only have a maximum of 1 Emperor's Loge.
Investment Type
Price
Benefit
Buying Event Programs
Price displayed 
on program
New event to produce
Expanding the Arena
10 Coins
More space to attract Nobles 
and hold larger events
Purchasing a Season Ticket
10 Coins
Attract 5 additional spectators
Constructing 
the Emperor’s Loge
5 Coins
Roll 2 dice instead of 1 before 
producing an event
Arena with added Season Ticket
Or add a second expansion
Arena with Emperor's Loge
Nobles may end 
up inside an arena 
as the result of 
an expansion
You can expand your arena in either direction

PHASE 2: ACQUIRING 
EVENT ASSET TOKENS
There are 5 markets, each filled with 3 Event
Asset Tokens placed face up in the center of the
board.
These tokens are acquired by making the highest
bid among the players for a particular market. The
starting player for this turn points to the market
she wants to bid on and makes an opening bid.
Auction mechanism
The opening bid for a market must be 8 coins or
more.
Moving clockwise each player can now make a
higher bid. The bidding continues until all but one
of the players pass. If a player steps out of the
bidding round, she cannot rejoin the bidding for
that market.
The winner of the auction pays the bank her
winning bid and places the 3 Event Asset Tokens
from the market face up in front of her. Having
won an auction, she can no longer participate in
subsequent bidding rounds this turn.
New auctions are held, using the same mechanism,
until every player has had a chance to initiate a
bidding round for that turn.
Refill
If the winner of the bid is the active player (i.e. the
one who initiated the bidding), new Asset Tokens
are placed on the empty market(s) before the
next player initiates a bid. Always draw any
remaining green backed token first and then draw
replacement tokens from the bag containing
orange backed tokens, placing them face up in the
markets. Once the tokens are replaced a new
round of bidding begins with the player to the left
of the starting player initiating the bid.
If the winner of the bid is not the active player, the
tokens are not replaced until the active player
wins another bidding round this turn, or chooses
to pass on her opportunity to initiate a bid.
Note: Participating in an auction is never mandatory.
A player can pass on her opportunity to initiate a bid.
In this case although she can still join bidding rounds
initiated by other players, she has lost her
opportunity to initiate a bid for the rest of this turn.
PHASE 3: TRADING 
EVENT ASSET TOKENS
During the game a player may acquire Event
Asset Tokens that they don't find useful. During
this phase players have a chance to trade their
unwanted Asset Tokens. The starting player begins
by making open offers to the rest of the players.
The player can buy, sell or exchange components
with any of the other players. Only money and
event assets can be used to make trades and all
trades must be delivered immediately. No trades
can be based on future promises.
Once the starting player is done trading, the next
player (moving clockwise around the table)
may initiate any trades that she wants to
make. This phase ends when every player
Gladiators
Ships
Musicians
Comedians
Priests
Horses
Lions
Chariots
Cages
Torches
Scenery
Decorations
Allie initiates a 
bidding round that
Beatrix ends up 
winning. 
The market 
where Beatrix'
tokens were located
is left empty as 
Allie initiates 
another bidding
round.
This time player
Charlie wins 
the bidding. 
We now have 
2 empty markets.
David becomes 
the active player 
and the 2 empty
markets are now
refilled at once. 
Seeing no interesting asset tokens, Allie decides to pass 
for good on the opportunity to initiate a bid this turn.
Allie, who has not won a bid yet this turn, can still join in 
the bidding. But if she loses it, she can no longer initiate 
a bid and ends up the turn with no new Asset Tokens!

has finished trading. Non-active players can only trade with
the active player, not among each other. Depending on the
willingness or reluctance of players to trade, it is possible
that no trades may actually occur during this phase.
PHASE 4: PRODUCING 
AN EVENT
In this phase, each player, beginning with the starting
player that turn, may now produce an event. There are
3 steps to each event's production.
Step 1: Moving Senators, 
Consuls and the Emperor
Before producing an event each player will attempt to
move the Nobles into her Arena. Each of these Nobles
brings with him additional spectators. The Emperor
brings 7 additional spectators; the Consuls, 5 each; and
the Senators, 3 each.
Noble movement is determined by the roll of one or two
special dice. If your arena does not yet have an Emperor's
Loge, you roll only one die. Once you have added an
Emperor's Loge, you roll two dice. 
For each die rolled you must move one of the Nobles in
a clockwise direction the specific number of squares
indicated on the die. If you roll the 1-3 face of the die, you
can move any one Noble either 1,2 or 3 squares forward. 
A player rolling two dice may choose to move either two
different Nobles - one for each die rolled, or can move
one Noble once using the sum of both dice. 
If a Noble ends his movement on a resting area the player
earns 1 Emperor Medal (see Emperor Medals page X). 
If a player combines two dice to move the same Noble
the Emperor Medal is collected only if the Noble finishes
his journey on the resting area, not if he merely pauses
on one midway through his movement. 
It is possible to have multiple Nobles on the
same square.
Step 2: Producing your Event
Choosing only from the Event Programs in your
possession, announce to the other players the name of the
event that you want to produce. Place the Event Program
in front of you, so that everyone can see it. You can only
present one event per turn. Because some events require
arenas of a certain size, first check that your arena is large
enough to run the event.
Now display the Event Asset Tokens you have that are
needed to produce the event. You do not need all the
assets listed on the program to produce the event, but
your score will be reduced for each asset that is missing.
Also you must have a minimum number of assets (the
least amount listed on the program that still gives you
a score) to produce it. 
Note: You can produce an event that you
already presented during a previous game
turn. However when you produce a new event,
each previously produced Event Program is
turned face down and contributes 5 additional
spectators to the new event (see Previous Events,
page IX).
Now you are ready to calculate the number of
spectators your event has attracted.
Event Program and required Asset Tokens
Senator finishing move on Resting Area earns 1 Emperor Medal
Consul only pausing on Resting Area does not earn a medal

• Count the number of Spectators attracted by the Event Program
Each Event Program has the potential to attract a specific number of
spectators. This number is displayed on the program in the lower left
corner. More spectacular events will draw larger numbers of spectators.
However, each Event Asset token that is missing when you run your event
will reduce your attendance. You will only score the full number of
spectators if all assets are available. 
In the example shown, the Circus Maximus program, the player is missing
1 Horse asset and 1 Chariot asset. Instead of attracting the full 32
spectators that the program allows, this Event Program only draws 24. 
• Add 5 Spectators for each previous Event produced
If this is not your first Event, each previously produced Event Program is
turned face down and counts for 5 additional spectators (see Previous
Events section, p. IX). 
• Add 5 Spectators for each Season Ticket in your Arena 
• Add 4 Spectators for each Star Performer Award you currently possess 
You may only add these spectators if an Asset Token of the same type
as your Star Performer is used in the performed event. (see Star Performer
Awards, p. IX)
• For each Noble present in your arena at the time of the event add 
the following:
• Add 3 Spectators for each Podium you have earned in previous turns (See
Podium section, p. VIII)
• Add 3 Spectators per Emperor Medal played
If you have one or more Emperor Medals, you may turn them in to attract
an additional 3 Spectators per medal. The medals are then discarded. 
Step 3: Counting Spectators at your Event
Evaluate the success of your event by counting the number of spectators
that attended. You should include the following:
Event value with two assets missing
7 Spectators
for the
Emperor
5 Spectators
for each
Consul
3 Spectators
for each
Senator

Once the event is finished and the spectators counted,
if a player's score is higher than any of her previous turn's
scores, her scoring marker is moved to the new higher
position on the scoring track matching the number of
spectators this event attracted. If the event attracted
fewer or the same number of spectators than her previous
high score, the scoring marker stays in place, as it should
always represent the highest score for any of her events. 
You then receive coins from the bank equal to the number
of spectators that attended the event you produced
during this current turn. 
PHASE 5: CLOSING CEREMONIES
Podium
At the end of each turn, except
the last one, the player who has the
highest overall score in the game
receives a Podium and places it in
her arena. The winner might not
be the player who attracts the
most spectators in the current
turn, but is the one who has received the highest score
since the beginning of the game. If there is a tie the
richest player wins the podium. If there is also a tie for
most money, the tied players must roll the two dice
with the player rolling the highest total number winning
the Podium for this turn.
Each Podium will bring 3 additional spectators to any
subsequent events performed by the player who
receives the Podium. 
Event Clean-up
An event is demanding on the men, animals and resources
used to present it. It is inevitable that some will no
longer be able to perform. At the end of every turn, each
player must discard 1 of the Event Asset Tokens used in
their latest event and remove it from the game.
Asset Donation
At the end of the turn, the player who is in last position
on the scoring track asks the player who just received the
Podium to donate one of his Asset Tokens to her by
stating which type of Asset token she would like. She
cannot ask for any Special tokens such as the Additional
Action, Emperor or Joker tokens.
If there is a tie for last place, the poorest player receives
the donation. If there is still a tie, the tied players must
roll the dice until a clear winner is decided. 
Note: No Closing Ceremony occurs after the final turn.
GAME END
The game ends when each player has had a chance to
produce an event in the fifth and final turn of the game.
The winner is the player who has attracted the most
spectators to one of her events during the game.
If two players are tied, the richest player wins.
If players are still tied, the one who holds
the most Star Performer Awards wins.
Added Podium
The player's marker is moved to show her new higher score.
Coins received are equal to the score of latest event produced

ADDITIONAL GAME
INFORMATION
PREVIOUS EVENTS
During the game a player will produce many different
events starting with simple ones and moving to more
ambitious events. Each time a new event is presented, the
Event Program of any previously produced events is
turned over and counts for 5 additional spectators until
the game ends. 
A player may choose to repeat events that they have
produced in previous turns. In this case, the player turns
the older Event Program face up to show she is producing
that event. Any other previously produced events still
count as 5 additional spectators. Any Event Programs held
by the player that have not yet been produced are set
aside and do not add 5 spectators.
For example, if a player is running her third event, 2
"old" Event Programs are turned over and count for 10
(5+5) additional spectators.
EVENT ASSETS
The standard Event Asset list is as follows:
There are also three types of Special Event Asset Tokens:
Jokers x4
A Joker can be used to replace any
standard asset token. When the event
is performed, the player can decide
what asset the joker will be used for. Note: A Joker is not
used as part of the asset token count to determine if a
player earns a Star Performer Award.
Emperor x4
When an Emperor Asset Token is
acquired, it is immediately replaced by
an Emperor Medal (see Emperor
Medals, p. X). If there are no Emperor Medals available,
the Asset Token is lost.
Additional Actions x4
The Special Event Token can be used in
two different ways:
- A player may make 2 investments instead of 1 during
the investment phase. Of course the additional
investment still requires the appropriate payment.
The player can make the same type of investment
twice during the same turn.
- It can be exchanged for an Emperor Medal at anytime.
This ability can prove to be useful, particularly at the
end of the game.
STAR PERFORMER AWARDS
The best producers are always able to attract the top
performers. Among the asset types that include living
performers, you will find Star Performers. These assets
include the: Gladiators, Priests, Comedians, Musicians,
Lions, Horses and Ships (with their live crews). 
The first player to collect 3 (or more) matching Event
Asset Tokens from among these performers is given the
Star Performer Award for that asset type. At the
time it is awarded the player must have more
assets of that type than any other player.
20 Gladiators
12 Comedians
12 Musicians
12 Horses
12 Torches
11 Priests
11 Ships
10 Lions
10 Scenery
10 Decorations 
10 Chariots
10 Cages
The 2 previously 
completed Programs 
add 10 Spectators 
to the score. 

A player keeps the Star Performer Award until either of
the following occurs:
1. Another player collects more of that particular
asset than the player with the award. (The star then
goes to the new player who now has the most tokens); 
or 
2. The number of tokens of that type held by the
player drops to less than 3. If another player has 3 (or
more) assets of that type and more than any other
player, the Star Performer Award is then given to
her. In case of a tie between several other players, no
one gets the star.
If the player who holds a Star Performer Award performs
an event that uses the star's asset type she will attract
4 additional spectators. For example, a player with 3
Star Performers who produces an event that uses assets
from 2 of those stars will add 8 (4+4) spectators to her
event. 
Star Performer Awards may be given at the beginning of
the game if, after the distribution of Asset Tokens, some
players have 3 or more tokens of the same kind and no
other player also has the same number of those tokens.
Star Performer Awards are placed in front of the player,
along with their associated Asset Tokens, so that the
other players can see them.
EMPEROR MEDALS
Emperor Medals are collected in the following manner:
- When a Noble (Emperor,
Consul or Senator) ends his
journey via a dice roll on
one of the resting areas. If
a player has combined the
result of both dice to move one
Noble, the Emperor Medal is
collected only if the Noble ends his
journey on a resting area. 
- By collecting a Special Event
Token (Emperor and Additional
Actions) that can be exchanged
for an Emperor Medal.
Emperor Medals are collected as long as they are
available. 
Note: If a player uses an Emperor Medal to move a Noble
onto a resting area, she does NOT collect an Emperor
Medal. Emperor Medals are only collected when Nobles are
moved through a dice roll.
By playing 1 Emperor Medal a
player can do one and only one
of the following:
- Add 3 spectators to an event when producing the
event.
- Move any Noble 1, 2 or 3 squares forward or backward.
(This movement must be made after moving the Nobles
via the dice roll.)
- Receive 6 coins
By playing 2 Emperor Medals,
instead of the 3 possible actions
described above, a player can
make a second investment during
the investment phase.
There are no restrictions on the number of Emperor
Medals that can be played. For example, several Emperor
Medals can be played in a row to move a Noble multiple
times or to move a second Noble.
Once earned, Emperor Medals can be used immediately
during that phase or kept to be used later. 
Priest Star
Gladiator Star
Ship Star
Musician Star
Comedian Star
Horse Star
Lion Star

VARIANT
INTENSE AUCTIONS
This variant changes Phase 2 of the game turn: Acquiring
Event Asset Tokens (page V of the Rules Booklet).
In the variant, each player, in turn order, will have a
chance to initiate a bidding round. Additionally, players
who have already won one or more auctions during the
phase may still participate in and bid, once the player
initiating the auction changes.
This variant changes the auctions as follows:
• The opening bid must be 8 coins or higher.
• Moving clockwise each player can make a higher bid.
• If a player steps out of the bidding round, she cannot
rejoin the bidding for that market. 
• If the initiating player does not win the bidding round,
and decides to restart another auction on a different
market, the previous winner can no longer participate.
• The market is not refilled until the initiating player wins
a bidding round or decides to pass her turn.
• If the winner of the bid is the initiating player, new
Asset Tokens are placed on the empty market(s) and the
next player becomes the initiating player. All players can
now bid again following the same rules.
• The phase ends when every player has had a chance to
initiate a bidding round for that turn. Players may
decide to pass on their chance to initiate biddings.
Here is an example with 3 players A, B and C. 
Round 1: A is the initiating player.
• B wins the bidding
• A initiates another bidding, B cannot participate, only
A and C can take part. The market is not refilled.
• C wins the bidding.
We now have 2 empty markets; A decides to pass on his
turn. The 2 empty markets are refilled.
Round 2: B is the initiating player
• B initiates the bidding in which A and C can participate.
• A wins the bidding and can no longer take part in the
next bidding initiated by B.
• C wins the bidding
• B is now alone and pays 8 coins to win one the 3 markets
left for bid. The 3 markets are refilled.
Round 3: C is the initiating player
• C will initiate a bidding round in which A and B can
participate as well.
This variant placed a premium on players managing their
money more carefully to give themselves a better chance
to win multiple biddings in the turn.
ONLINE PLAY
We invite you to join our online community of players
and test your skills against fellow players from around
the world at Days of Wonder Online, where we host a
number of online versions of our games. Here is your
Days of Wonder Online Access Number: 
To use it, simply visit: www.colosseumgame.com and click
on the New Player Signup button on the home page. 
Then just follow the instructions.
You can also learn about other Days of Wonder games
or visit us at: www.daysofwonder.com
CREDITS
Game design by Wolfgang Kramer 
and Markus Lübke
Illustrations by Julien Delval
Graphic Design by Cyrille Daujean
Playtesters: For their participation in the Roman Games and
the infinite patience to show their best spectacles to the
Emperor and visitors, we thank the following playtesters: 
Inge Alscher, Ulrike and Veit Froer, Familie Costabell, Birthe
Helbing, Ursula Kramer, Reinhard, Regina and Matthias
Kramer, Christel and Gerhard Kühnle, Karin Lübke, Gertrud
and Peter Lübke, Mario Maiwald, Esther Pitz, Judith Räch,
Dirk Saggau, Spieleclub Gerlingen and Spieleclub Stuttgarter
Kronisten, Jochen Zielke. 
" vitae amantes te salutant "
© 2007-2015 Days of Wonder, Inc. 
www.daysofwonder.com
Days of Wonder and Colosseum are trademarks or 
registered trademarks of Days of Wonder, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.