© 2017 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1.0 Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2.0 Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.0 Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4.0 Special Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8
5.0 Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	9
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
6.0 Propaganda Rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
7.0 Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	13
8.0 Non-Player Faction Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	13
9.0 Key Terms Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	17
10.0 Scenario Guide. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	19
R ULES O F P L AY
by Brian Train
Revised May 2018
COIN Series, Volume VII
The French-Algerian War, 1954-62

Edge Track
City
Sector Border
International Border
Support and Opposition 
marker holding box
Control marker
holding box
Population Value
Sector Name
Wilaya Border
Sector Border
Mountain Sector
Plains Sector
1.0 Introduction 
Colonial Twilight: Algeria 1954-62 is a 2-player board game de­
picting the conflict in Algeria in its last eight years as a department 
of France before it became an independent nation. Each player 
takes the role of an agency seeking to set the fate of Algeria: the 
French government and the insurgent anti-government forces 
(mainly these consist of the armed elements of the Front de Lib­
eration Nationale, (FLN) but also including other movements). 
Using military, political, and economic actions and exploiting 
various events, players build and maneuver forces to influence or 
control the population or otherwise achieve their aims. A deck of 
cards regulates events, victory checks, and other processes. The 
rules can run a FLN non-player faction, enabling a solitaire game 
(or one player can take both factions).
This game is Volume 7 in the COIN Series of games that use sim­
ilar rules to cover modern insurgencies. The Designer’s Notes in 
the Playbook lists major rules differences from earlier volumes. 
1.1 General Course of Play 
Unlike many card-assisted war games, this game does not use 
hands of cards. Instead, cards are played from the deck one at 
time. Each Event card contains text that may alter or suspend 
certain rules of the game, or demand execution of a particular task. 
Propaganda cards mixed in with the Event cards provide periodic 
opportunities for instant wins and for activities such as collecting 
resources and influencing popular sympathies. 
1.2 Components 
A complete set of game components includes: 
•	 A 22”x34” mounted game board (1.3). 
•	 A deck of 71 cards (5.0). 
•	 91 blue, black, and green wooden playing pieces, some 
embossed (1.4; see “Forces Pool” on the Spaces List sheet for a 
complete listing). Some extra blocks have been added to replace 
any defective blocks.
•	 Six black, six white pawns (3.1.1).
•	 Four embossed cylinders (1.8, 2.3).
•	 One sheet of markers. 
•	 One Sequence of Play and Spaces List sheet (1.4.1, 2.0, 6.0). 
•	 Two Player Aid foldouts (3.0, 4.0, 7.0). 
•	 One non-player faction play aid card (8.0).
•	 Two six-sided dice. 
•	 One background playbook. 
•	 This rule book. 
1.3 The Map 
The map shows Algeria and nearby areas divided into various types 
of spaces. 
1.3.1 Map Spaces. Map spaces include Sectors, Cities and Countries. 
All spaces can hold forces. 
1.3.2 Wilayas and Sectors. The map is divided into named and 
numbered areas that correspond roughly with the Wilaya or zone 
system used by the FLN command structure, with each Wilaya 
(Roman numeral) divided into a number of mintaka or Sectors 
(Arabic numerals, so V-1 is the first Sector in Wilaya 5). If you find 
the numbering system cumbersome, each Sector is also marked with 
the name of a major town located inside it. 
Each Sector shows a Population Value (Pop) of 0, 1, or 2 that affects 
victory via Support for or Opposition to the French government 
(1.6) or Control (1.7) and some FLN actions. Sectors are further 
distinguished as Mountain or Plain, affecting player operations and 
certain Events (5.0).
During play, the Government player gains the ability to change the 
Population Value of some spaces through Resettlement, turning 
them from Population 1 to Population 0 (place a “Pop 0” marker to 
denote this). (4.2.1) 
 
1.3.3 Cities. Cities show Population Values of 2 or 3. Cities are 
spaces in their own right, and are also considered to be part of the 
Wilaya they are located in, for purposes of FLN March (3.3.2) or 
Redeploy (6.4.2). Note that Oran and Algiers are Cities 
contained entirely within a Sector, but Constantine is a 
City that is adjacent to two Sectors. During play, Cities 
may increase by up to 1 Population Value (place a “Pop 
+1” marker to denote this). 

DESIGN NOTE: Each Population Value point represents about 
300,000 human beings. 
1.3.4 Countries: Morocco and Tunisia. These two Countries were 
part of the French empire at the beginning of the Algerian conflict 
but became independent. During the game, on play of a Pivotal 
Event card (5.1.8), both of these Countries will become sanctuaries 
for the FLN player’s pieces, and the Government player may begin 
to fortify the borders of Algeria to prevent infiltration from them. 
Only FLN pieces may be in these Countries, but FLN may not enter 
these Countries until they become independent. These Countries are 
treated as Mountain Sectors with a Population Value of 1: the FLN 
may Rally, March and Extort in these Countries, but their Population 
is never counted in the total Opposition (1.6.2). During play, these 
Countries may acquire the ability to contain three Bases (1.4.2), 
shown by “Base” markers placed in their spaces.
1.3.5 Adjacency. Adjacency affects the movement of forces and 
implementation of certain Events. Any two spaces that share a land 
border are considered adjacent. 
EXAMPLES: The sector of Philippeville (II-2) is adjacent to 
Constantine, Setif (II-1), Barika (I-1), Oum el Bouaghi (1-4) and 
Souk Ahras (II-3). Constantine is adjacent only to Setif (II-1) and 
Philippeville (II-2).
1.3.6 Coasts. Any spaces adjacent to blue water are “coastal”. 
Algiers and Oran are coastal spaces, as are Morocco and Tunisia. 
Water is not land, so coastal spaces that do not share a land border 
are not adjacent.
1.3.7 Border Sectors. There are seven Sectors that are partly bound­
ed by an international border (three border on Morocco, and four bor­
der on Tunisia). In the Full Scenario, they are not considered Border 
Sectors until Morocco and Tunisia have become independent and the 
Border Zone activated, by play of a Pivotal Event Card (5.1.8). As 
the international border is progressively fortified, the Border Zone 
Status rises (3.2.1, 5.1.8). FLN Guerrillas will find it more difficult 
to March into Border Sectors undetected (3.3.2) and will lose some 
Resources in the Resources and Commitment Adjustment Phase of 
Propaganda Rounds (6.2.2). Also, Police in Border Sectors count 
as Troops in Assaults (3.2.4).
1.3.8 Other Map Features. There are tracks and boxes on the map 
that record various game parameters or store game pieces:
Edge Track. This track runs along the top of the game board, from 
0 to 50. It records the amount of Resources the players have (1.8), 
their current Victory Levels (1.9), the Government Commitment 
Level (1.8) and the number of Resettled Sectors (4.2.1).
France Track. Technically France is where the Gov­
ernment player’s Available Forces box is located, and 
legally Algeria is a department of France, but for game 
purposes this track is an abstract representation of the 
ability of the FLN to obtain material from sympathet­
ic organizations and expatriate Algerians, and to affect French 
public opinion on the war (and therefore the government’s commit­
ment to continuing the war).
Border Zone Track. When Morocco and Tunisia 
gain their independence from France (5.1.8), this track 
is activated to show a status of “0” (zero). During the 
game the Government player may expend Resources 
to improve the Border Zone Status so as to inhibit 
infiltration from these two FLN safe havens (3.3.2).
Initiative Track. This diagram is divided into boxes to guide the 
players’ choices during the Sequence of Play (2.3) and keep track 
of player eligibility.
Available Forces boxes. Both players have one of these, to store 
pieces that may be entered into the map spaces. Note that the Gov­
ernment player’s box is divided into two sections, one for French 
pieces, and one for Algerian.
Out of Play box. This is a common box for pieces that are neither 
Available nor able to be placed into the map spaces. Pieces enter 
and leave this box through different game functions.
Casualties box. This is a common box for pieces that have been 
eliminated during play. During Propaganda Rounds the pieces here 
will move either to Out of Play or Available.
Capabilities box. This is a common box for players to store markers 
that denote Capabilities of one side or the other (5.3).
TYPES OF FORCES
Underground
FLN
Guerrillas:
Cubes:
Bases:
Active
Algerian
Algerian
Troops
FLN
Government
French
Troops
French

 
 
 
1.4 Forces 
The wooden pieces represent the Factions’ various forces: French 
Troops and Police (dark blue and light blue cubes, respectively), 
Algerian Troops and Police (dark green and light green cubes), FLN 
Guerrillas (black cylinders) and all Factions’ Bases (light blue or 
black disks). 
DESIGN NOTE: Police represent a combination of French Army 
“sector troops” deployed for static defense, urban police, and 
rural constabulary and militias. Bases represent command, train­
ing, and supply facilities as well as centres of civilian government 
and administration. 
1.4.1 Availability, Removal, and Out of Play. A “Force Pool” in­
ventory on the Spaces List sheet shows the number of pieces in the 
game. Keep forces Available for placement in that player’s Available 
Forces box. Place FLN Bases in the highest-numbered empty spaces 
to show the number of on-map Bases to help track earnings (6.2) 
and victory (7.0). Both players may have forces in the Out of Play 
box—neither Available nor on the map—and forces can become 
Casualties (3.3.3, 4.3.3, 5.0, 6.5). Otherwise, forces removed from 
the map go to Available or Casualties. 
Unless otherwise instructed (by Event, 5.1.1), forces may only be 
placed from or replaced with those in the Available boxes. A piece 
to be replaced by a piece that is unavailable is simply removed. 
Important: Players while executing an Operation, Special Activity, 
or Event to place their own forces may take them from spaces else­
where on the map if and only if the desired force type is not Available. 
Exception to the above: the FLN cannot take pieces from Morocco 
or Tunisia to do this (though the player can take pieces from other 
spaces in Algeria to place them in these countries).
EXAMPLES: During a Rally (3.3.1), an FLN player without Avail­
able Guerrillas could remove its own from a space (not in Morocco 
or Tunisia) to place them Underground in a different space. Gov­
ernment Train could take Algerian cubes from another space if none 
were in Available. 
1.4.2 Stacking. No more than two Bases may oc­
cupy a single map space. Only FLN pieces may 
occupy Morocco or Tunisia (1.3.4) (and there is an 
Event Card that allows the FLN player to place up 
to three Bases in each of these countries). Placing 
(such as Bases via Train 3.2.1, Rally 3.3.1, Event 5.1.1, or Deploy, 
4.2.1) or moving forces may never violate stacking. 
 
1.4.3 Underground/Active. Guerrillas are either 
Underground—symbol end down—or Active—
symbol end up. Actions and Events flip them from 
one to the other state. Bases, Troops, and Police 
are always Active. Always set up and place new Guerrillas Under­
ground (including if replacing a piece). 
NOTE: Unless instructions specify “Underground” Guerrilla, it is 
sufficient to “Activate” already Active Guerrillas (they stay Active). 
Also, “moving” or “relocating” Guerrillas does not affect Under­
ground status unless specified. 
1.5 Players & Factions 
The game has two factions, the Government and the FLN. See 8.0 
for rules to be used for an “automated” FLN player, if there is only 
one human player and they do not want to play both factions.
1.5.1 Friends and Enemies. The government player has forces re­
cruited or drafted from both metropolitan France (dark blue Troops, 
and light blue Police and Bases) and Algeria (dark and light green 
Troops and Police). They are on the same side, though Algerian 
forces may be built as a result of Train Operations and are vulnerable 
to Subvert Operations by the FLN player. Occasionally a game rule 
or event will apply to French or Algerian Troops, or Police only, and 
will be denoted as such: otherwise, the term “Government” applies 
equally to both nationalities.
1.5.2 Negotiation. Players may make any mutual arrangements 
within the rules. The rules do not bind players to agreements. 
1.6 Support and Opposition 
Support and Opposition affect victory and some operations and 
activities. 
1.6.1 Cities and Sectors with at least 1 Population (1.3.2-3) always 
show one of three levels of its populace’s Support for or Opposition 
to the Government regime that can shift during play: 
	
	
	
	
Support	
Neutral	
Opposition
	
(marker)	
(no marker)	 (other side of marker)
1.6.2 Support or Opposition affects player victory (7.2-.3). Show 
Support or Opposition with markers placed in each City or Sector. 
Show Neutral spaces by the absence of such markers. 
Total Support = total Pop Value of Cities and Sectors in Support 
Total Opposition = total Pop Value of Cities and Sectors in 
Opposition in Algeria
NOTE: Pop 0 Sectors are always Neutral, never at Support or 
Opposition. 
1.6.3. Morocco and Tunisia are Pop 1, but this is only so as to allow 
the FLN to Rally and Extort there. Their Population Values are never 
included in Total Opposition.
1.7 Control 
 
A player Controls a Sector or City if the 
number of their pieces there exceeds that 
of the other player. Control affects cer­
tain activities. Adjust Control markers 
immediately as Control changes due to 
placement, removal, or movement of pieces. 

1.8 Resources and Commitment
 
 
At any moment, a player will have between 0 and 
50 Resources that are used to pay for Operations 
(3.0). During Propaganda Rounds (6.0), players 
will also gain or expend Resources for other 
purposes. The Government player also has a Commitment Level, 
also recorded on the Edge Track. This level is important during 
Propaganda Rounds and is affected by Events, the 
player’s operational choices, and the FLN player’s 
actions. Mark Resources on the Edge Track with an 
appropriate cylinder, and Commitment with a marker. 
 
If a player does not have sufficient Resources or Commitment to pay 
for a given action or choice, they may not perform it. However, if 
required to lose Resources or Commitment beyond 0 (zero) because 
of the other player’s actions, a player may not have a “deficit” in­
flicted on them—the index is lowered to 0 and the excess is ignored.
NOTES: Compared to the FLN, the Government player has a far 
greater military capacity in terms of logistics, numbers of troops 
and firepower. However, there will be problems not only of keeping 
within budget, but also the practical issues of command and control, 
the challenges of leadership and motivation in a largely conscript 
military, and developing a workable counterinsurgency doctrine 
– which includes improved coordination with law enforcement 
and civilian agencies. This imposes a practical limit on what the 
Government player can accomplish during a campaign - therefore 
a finite amount of Resources. 
For the FLN, Resources are a more straightforward measure of 
organization, training, and (especially initially) obtaining actual 
weapons and equipment.
 
The Government player also has the 
complication of a Commitment Level, 
addressing the willingness of the Metro­
politan French civilian population and 
its government to continue to maintain 
Algeria as a colony (technically and legally, Algeria was the 10th 
Department of France, but the main effect of this measure was to 
allow military conscripts to serve their term in Algeria, unlike the 
just-concluded war in Indochina which permitted deployment only of 
professional military and volunteers). He may deliberately raise or 
lower the Commitment Level by sending or withdrawing forces to or 
from Algeria in Propaganda Rounds. Certain in-game Events will 
also change Commitment: for example, destroying FLN Bases, sus­
taining French casualties, using Torture, Event cards, and so forth. 
1.9 Victory Markers 
Similarly track with markers on the Edge Track the following totals 
that affect victory (7.0). 
•	 Government: Total Support (1.6.2) plus Commitment (1.8). 
•	 FLN: Total Opposition (1.6.2) plus the number of FLN Bases on 
the map. 
2.0 Sequence of Play 
2.1 Set Up 
Follow the instructions on the Scenario Guide (10.0) to choose a 
scenario and various play options, prepare the draw deck, and set 
up markers and forces. 
2.2 Start
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile. 
NOTE: All played cards and the number of cards in the draw deck 
are open to inspection.
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, the two Factions will execute Oper­
ations or the Event described on the card. At all times one player 
will be First Eligible, and the other will be Second Eligible. In each 
Event card round, the First Eligible player is first to choose what 
they will do, followed by the Second Eligible—whose choices are 
limited by what the First Eligible player did.
2.3.1 Eligibility. Which player is First or Second Eligible is shown 
on the Initiative Track by the placement of that player’s cylinder 
on the diagram. 
2.3.2 Options for Eligible Factions.
First Eligible: 
The First Eligible player may play the Event, conduct an Operation 
with or without a special activity, or pass.
Once the player has completed the actions, place their eligibility 
cylinder in the appropriate box on the Initiative Track as described 
below:
•	 If they executed the Event card, place it in the “Event” box.
•	 If they conducted an Operation in only one location without a 
special activity, place it in the “Limited Op” box.
•	 If they conducted an Operation in more than one location without 
a special activity, place it in the “Op Only” box.
•	 If they conducted an Operation (in any number of spaces) with a 
special activity, place it in the “Op + Special Activity” box.
•	 If they passed, they receive one or two Resources (see 2.3.3) and 
place it in the “Pass” box.

Second Eligible:
The Second Eligible player may then choose one of the boxes 
adjacent to the First Eligible player’s cylinder and conduct actions 
as described below:
•	 If they chose the “Event” box, they may execute the Event card.
•	 If they chose the “Limited Op” box, they may conduct an 
Operation in one space without a special activity.
•	 If they chose the “Op Only” box, they may conduct an Operation 
in any number of spaces without a special activity.
•	 If they chose the “Op+Special Activity” box they may conduct 
an Operation in any number of spaces with or without a special 
activity.
•	 If they chose the “Pass” box, they gain the appropriate amount of 
resources.
2.3.3 Passing. A player who Passes will take no further action that 
round. They receive +1 Resource if FLN or +2 Resources if Gov­
ernment. As an exception to 2.3.2 above, both players may Pass, 
in which case both receive Resources and the order of eligibility 
does not change.
2.3.4 Limited Operation. A Limited Operation is an Operation in 
just one location, with no Special Activity. If the Limited Operation 
is a Garrison (3.2.2), Sweep (3.2.3), or March (3.3.2), it can involve 
pieces from multiple spaces but only one destination space. 
2.3.5 Adjust Eligibility. After the players have completed all 
execution of Operations, Special Activities, and Events (or after 
both players have Passed), adjust cylinders on the Initiative Track 
as follows:
•	 If the First Eligible player chose to execute an Operation with a 
Special Activity, or an Operation in multiple locations, the Second 
Eligible player becomes the new First Eligible player, and places 
the eligibility cylinder appropriately. (Note that these two boxes 
on the Initiative Track are shaded differently to remind players 
of this change of eligibility.)
•	 If the First Eligible player did anything else (Limited Operation, 
Event or Pass), they remain First Eligible.
Clarifications:
•	 “Location” in the above rules also refers to the France Track and 
Border Zone Track, which are not map spaces but which can be 
chosen for Train and Rally Operations (3.2.1, 3.3.1). For example, 
if the FLN player selected both the France Track and one map 
space to conduct a Rally, they would be considered to have chosen 
an Op Only (that is, an Operation in multiple spaces).
•	 The Second Eligible player may select only one location to 
conduct an Operation or Operation with a Special Activity when 
permitted by the First Eligible player’s choice. They must select 
only one location when required to do a Limited Operation by 
the First Eligible player’s choice.
2.3.6 Next Card. After both players have chosen and executed an 
option, reveal the draw deck’s next card. Play the newly revealed 
card, proceeding with the appropriate sequence.
2.3.7 Pivotal Events. Each player begins the scenario with one or 
more unique Pivotal Event cards. Pivotal Events are a type of Event 
(5.0) that can be played deliberately. Either player may play a Pivotal 
Event to replace the currently played Event card if:
•	 Any pre-conditions listed on the card are met, AND
•	 The First Eligible player has not yet chosen an option (2.3.2). 
If both players want to play a Pivotal Event at the same time, the 
Second Eligible player gets priority and plays their card. The First 
Eligible player keeps their card to play later.
Procedure: Playing a Pivotal Event card changes the normal se­
quence of play. The player playing the Pivotal Event card places it 
on the played Event card and executes the Pivotal Event instead. 
The Pivotal Event card stays in the played card pile (exception: 
the Government Pivotal Event card Coup d’Etat is retained by the 
player after the Event is executed. The card may be played up to 
once per Campaign (5.1.7).
The player who played the Pivotal Event card becomes or remains 
First Eligible: adjust the cylinders if necessary, and place the player’s 
cylinder in the “Event” box of the Initiative Track. The other player 
may choose either an Operation with a Special Activity or Pass, and 
becomes or remains Second Eligible.
2.4 Propaganda Card 
If playing a Propaganda card, conduct a Propaganda Round (6.0), 
following each phase on the Propaganda Card Sequence of Play 
(6.1 to 6.5). 
2.4.1 Final Propaganda. If the last Propaganda card’s Round is 
completed without a victory (6.1), the game ends: determine victory 
by 7.3. 
NOTE: Each series of Event cards ending with a Propaganda 
Round is a “Campaign”, representing one to two years of conflict. 
In games where all Propaganda Rounds are played, the player 
with the highest victory margin is the one in the dominant position 
in the just-concluded peace negotiations. The game analogue to 
the real-world historical outcome would be a situation like this: 
neither player wins outright, but the FLN player has the higher 
victory margin.
3.0 Operations 
3.1 Operations in General 
A player executing an Operation (Op) chooses one of the four Op­
erations listed on their sheet and selects the map spaces (typically 
several) to be involved. Select a given space only once for a given 
Operation. Operations usually cost Resources, often per space 
selected; the player must have enough Resources to pay for the 
Operation, including in each selected space. The executing player 
chooses the order of the spaces in which the Operation is resolved, 
the enemy pieces to be affected (targeted), and the friendly pieces 
to be placed, replaced, or moved. Once targeted, enemy pieces are 
affected to the maximum extent possible. 
 
3.1.1 Pawns. If desired, mark spaces selected for Operations (3.0), 
Special Activities (4.0), or other actions with white and black pawns. 
The pawns are for convenience, not a limit on play. 
3.1.2 Free Operations. Certain Events (5.5) grant free Operations 
or Special Activities: they cost no Resources. EXCEPTIONS: 
Pacification and Agitation still cost Resources even if part of a free 
Operation (3.2.1, 3.3.1). Other requirements and procedures still 
apply unless modified by Event text (5.1.1, 5.5.). 

3.2 Government Operations 
The Government player chooses from Train, Garrison, Sweep, and 
Assault Operations. 
3.2.1 Train. Training adds Algerian forces and can also build Support 
(1.6) and/or affect certain Tracks. The Government player may select 
Cities, Sectors that have a Government Base, or the Border Zone or 
France Tracks (each Track counts as one location). The Government 
player may not select the Border Zone Track until Morocco and 
Tunisia have become independent (5.1.8).
NOTE: French pieces move in and out of Algeria via the Deploy 
Special Activity (4.2.1) and Events (5.0), not Train. 
Procedure: First, pay two Resources per selected location. Then, 
in those selected locations:
•	 If a Sector with a Government Base or City, place up to four 
Algerian cubes (any combination of Troops and Police). If none 
of the desired pieces are Available (1.4.1), they may be taken from 
spaces elsewhere in Algeria. Then, in one selected space (even if 
a Limited Operation, 2.3.4), if desired: 
	 ◊	 Pacify to remove any Terror marker or markers, and then to 
shift the space one level toward Support. The space must have 
Government Control. The Pacification costs two Resources per 
Terror marker removed or level shifted, even if the Training 
Operation was free (3.1.2, 5.5). 
	 ◊	 Note that when the Recall de Gaulle Pivotal Event card is in 
effect (5.1.7), the Government player may now select Populated 
Sectors that have Government Control and Troops and Police, 
in addition to Cities and Sectors with a Government Base. The 
player may still Pacify in only one space.
•	 If a Track, do not place any cubes but shift the Track’s status 
marker one box. The marker may be moved at most one box on 
the track. 
3.2.2 Garrison. Garrisoning moves Police among populated and 
Resettled (4.2.1) spaces, to find enemy pieces there. Pay two Re­
sources total (not per space). If a Limited Operation (2.3.4), all 
moving cubes must end on a single destination space.
Procedure: Move up to six Police cubes between any number of 
selected spaces. Then, in one of the selected spaces (whether or not a 
Police cube just moved in or out), Activate one Underground Guer­
rilla for each Police cube there; in Mountain spaces, Activate one 
enemy Guerrilla for every two Police cubes (round odd totals down). 
3.2.3 Sweep. Sweeps may move Troops and can locate Guerrillas. 
Pay two Resources per space selected. 
Procedure: First, move any adjacent Troops (not Police) desired 
into selected spaces. Then, in each selected space, Activate one 
Underground Guerrilla for each cube (Police and Troops) there. In 
Mountain spaces, Activate only one Guerrilla for every two cubes 
(round odd totals down).
EXAMPLE: In Mostaganem (V-4), there are: one Police cube, one 
Troop cube, two Underground Guerrillas, and one FLN Base. The 
Government player pays two Resources for a Sweep, naming Mo­
staganem as the destination space, and moves three Troop cubes 
from adjacent Sidi Bel Abbes (V-3) into the space. Because there 
are now five Government cubes in Mostaganem, and because it 
is a Mountain space, up to two Underground Guerrillas could be 
Activated there – so both Guerrillas are Activated.
3.2.4 Assault. Assaults remove enemy pieces. Select any spaces with 
Government cubes and FLN pieces. Pay two Resources per space. 
Procedure: In each selected space, remove enemy pieces per the 
number of cubes there, as follows: 
•	 Remove one enemy piece for each Troop cube, or one for every 
two Troop cubes in Mountain spaces (round odd totals down);
•	 In Cities and Border Sectors, count Police as well as Troops; in 
other Sectors, Troops only.
•	 Removed Guerrillas go to the Available and Casualties boxes 
alternately, Available first.
•	 Removed Bases go to Available. For each Base removed, add one 
Commitment. 
Guerrillas first, Bases last: Remove any Active Guerrillas first, 
then any FLN Bases only once no Guerrillas remain. Remove no 
Underground Guerrillas (1.4.3). 
NOTE: Underground Guerrillas in a space prevent further removal 
via Assault of Bases until the Guerrillas are Activated. 
DESIGN NOTE: Guerrillas are less hard hitting than Troops but 
enjoy an information advantage in that counterinsurgents must 
Activate (locate) them before Assaulting them. 
ASSAULT EXAMPLE: Continuing on from the above Sweep ex­
ample, the FLN player was unable or unwilling to change any of 
the circumstances in Mostaganem during that turn. So now, the 
Government player declares an Assault there, with the four Troop 
cubes; because the space is Mountain, up to two FLN pieces will 
be removed. Government pays two Resources, and removes both 
Activated Guerrillas. The first Guerrilla is removed to Available, 
the second to Casualties. 
3.3 FLN Operations 
The FLN player chooses from Rally, March, Attack, or Terror 
Operations. 
3.3.1 Rally. Rally adds FLN forces and can also build Opposition 
(1.6) and/or affect the France Track. The FLN player may select 
any Algerian Sectors, Cities at Neutral or Opposition, Morocco or 
Tunisia (if these countries are independent, (5.1.8), or the France 
Track (the Track counts as one location). 
Procedure: First, pay one Resource per selected location. Then, in 
those selected locations:
•	 If a Sector, City or Country, place one Available Guerrilla OR 
replace two Guerrillas with a Base (within stacking limits, 1.4.2). 
If the space already has at least one Base, the FLN may instead 
place Guerrillas up to the sum of the space’s Population Value 
(1.3.2-.4) plus the number of Bases there, or flip all its Guerrillas 
there Underground (1.4.3). Then, in one selected space (even if a 
Limited Operation, 2.3.4), if desired: 
	 ◊	 Agitate (6.3.2) to remove any Terror marker or markers, and 
then to shift the space one level toward Opposition. The space 
must have an FLN Base or FLN Control. The Agitation costs 
one Resource per Terror marker removed or level shifted, even 
if the Rally Operation was free (3.1.2, 5.5). 
•	 If the France Track, do not place any Guerrillas but shift the 
Track’s status marker one box. The marker may be moved at most 
one box on the track. 
3.3.2 March. March Operations move Guerrillas. Moving pieces 
may begin in any spaces. Pay one Resource per space that Guerrillas 
move into. A Limited Operation (2.3.4) March may select only a 
single, adjacent destination space.

Procedure: The FLN moves any Guerrillas desired into adjacent 
spaces (1.3.5). Guerrillas moving from one space to another move as 
a single group. Unless a Limited Operation (2.3.4), Guerrillas may 
make any number of March moves, until a Wilaya or International 
Border is crossed. At that point, no further March moves may be 
taken by that group of Guerrillas. Set all Guerrillas of a moving 
group to Active (1.4.3) if:
•	 The space moved into is at Support (1.6) or the moving group is 
crossing an International Border, and
•	 The moving group’s number of pieces plus the number of Gov­
ernment cubes at the destination exceeds three. (If the group is 
crossing an International Border, add the current Border Zone 
Status to the number of Government cubes.)
EXAMPLE: Two Underground Guerrillas March from Saida (V-5) 
into Sidi Bel Abbes (V-3), where there are two Police cubes and 
Support. The total of four relevant pieces at the destination exceeds 
three, so the Guerrillas flip to Active. The Guerrillas may continue 
Marching into Oran or Mostaganem (V-4) by paying one more 
Resource, since either is in the same Wilaya.
EXAMPLE: The FLN player Marches two Guerrillas from Morocco 
into Mecheria (V-1), where there is one Police cube. The Border 
Zone Status is “1”. Because the total involved is four (2 Guerrillas 
+ 1 Police + 1 Border Zone Status), the Guerrillas are set to Active. 
If the FLN had Marched only one Guerrilla, it would have stayed 
Underground. In either case, the FLN cannot continue Marching 
because the piece(s) crossed an International Border.
3.3.3 Attack. Attack Operations seek to eliminate enemy forces. 
Select any spaces where there are Guerrillas and enemy pieces; pay 
one Resource per space.
Procedure: In each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) all the Guerrillas 
there and then roll a die. If the roll is less than or equal to the number 
of Guerrillas there (whether or not they began Active), remove up 
to two enemy pieces (Police first, then Troops, then Bases: FLN 
player’s choice whether French or Algerian within each type). For 
each Base removed, subtract one Commitment. 
Casualties: Place any pieces removed by Attack into the Casualties 
box.
Attrition: For each French piece removed, the FLN must also re­
move one Guerrilla from the space (exception: not when combined 
with Ambush, 4.3.3). Removed Guerrillas go to the Available and 
Casualties boxes alternately, Available first.
Captured goods: If the die roll was a “1”, place one Underground 
FLN Guerrilla in the space.
DESIGN NOTE: Selecting Police first represents the FLN’s pru­
dent reluctance to engage the Government elite troops head-on, 
and to defeat their security forces in detail through many small 
ambushes and raids on isolated outposts held by police and sector 
troops. “Attrition” represents heavy return fire and the dispropor­
tionate casualty ratios that nevertheless occurred in engagements 
with the French Army, who had access to artillery and airpower.
3.3.4 Terror. Terror Operations in Cities or Sectors 
affect Support and Opposition (1.6) and place Terror 
markers that hinder future efforts to influence it. Select 
any spaces where the FLN has at least one Underground 
Guerrilla; pay one Resource per space. 
Procedure: Activate one Underground Guerrilla in each selected 
space. 
•	 If the space has no Terror marker, place a Terror marker. Set the 
space to Neutral. 
•	 Do not place a Terror marker if all are already on the map. (There 
are 12.) 
NOTE: Terror Operations will not add Terror markers to spaces 
that already have them. 
4.0 Special Activities 
4.1 Special Activities in General 
When a player executes an Operation (3.0), they may also execute 
one of its Special Activities (exception: Limited Operations, 2.3.4). 
There is no added Resource cost for the Special Activity unless 
specified. As with Operations, the executing player selects spaces 
or pieces affected and the order of actions. Select a given space only 
once as a location for a given Special Activity. Events may grant 
free Special Activities.
Important: A player may execute a Special Activity at any one time 
immediately before, during, or immediately after its accompanying 
Operation. 
EXAMPLE: The FLN Rallies until at 0 Resources, then pauses to 
Extort and gain Resources, then continues to Rally in added spaces. 
4.1.1. Accompanying Operations. Some Special Activities specify 
that they may only accompany certain types of Operations (3.0). 
Certain Special Activities either must occur or may not occur where 
their Accompanying Operations occurred. If not otherwise specified, 
Special Activities may accompany any Operations and take place 
in any otherwise valid spaces. 
4.2 Government Special Activities 
The Government player may choose from Deploy, Troop Lift, or 
Neutralize Special Activities. 
4.2.1 Deploy. This may accompany Train. 
Procedure: The Government player may move up to six French 
pieces among the Available box and up to three selected spaces. 
Spaces must be Cities, or Sectors with Government Bases or Gov­
ernment Control. 
or
The Government player may Resettle one Sector that 
has Pop 1, and a Government Base or Government 
Control. The Government player places a “Pop 0” 
marker on top of the Sector’s Population Value on the 
map, adjusts the Resettled Sectors marker on the Edge Track, and 
removes any Support/Opposition marker that was there. 
A Resettled Sector is now treated as a Pop 0 Sector 
in all respects but one: the Government player may 
still Garrison there. The FLN player may not Extort 
or conduct Terror there, and the Sector is permanent­
ly neutral (1.6). In future Propaganda Rounds, the 
Government player will subtract Resources equal to the number of 
Resettled Sectors (6.2.1).
NOTE: In the Full Scenario, the Government player may not Re­
settle Sectors until after they have played the Mobilization Pivotal 

Event. Also, note that some Sectors have already been Resettled at 
the beginning of the Medium and Short scenarios.
DESIGN NOTE: Forced resettlement of indigenous populations 
is a common method to deal with insurgencies: if you conceive of 
the guerrillas as fish, you can catch them by draining the ocean. 
In the Algerian War over 2 million Algerians (over 25% of the 
Muslim population) were forced to leave their homes. Most were 
placed in internment camps in primitive conditions, others were 
placed in villages in areas firmly controlled by French forces. 
In game terms, this physically prevents large numbers of people 
from actively helping the FLN; on the other hand, these people 
are now antagonized against the authorities that forcibly removed 
them from their traditional villages and farms, and these same 
authorities must use soldiers and resources to keep them confined. 
And no, there is no method for the Government player to “put 
them back.”
4.2.2 Troop Lift. This may accompany any Operation. Troop Lift 
moves Troops, especially to mass them quickly for an Operation. 
Procedure: Move any French Troops (only) among any three Al­
gerian spaces (certain Events may increase or decrease the number 
of selected spaces). 
4.2.3 Neutralize. This may accompany Garrison or Sweep. Neu­
tralize destroys exposed FLN pieces. It may take place in up to two 
spaces, in any space that has both Government Troops and Police 
in it (Control is not necessary). 
Procedure: Remove a total of up to two Active enemy pieces from 
among all selected spaces. Remove Bases only from spaces where 
no other FLN pieces remain. Remove no Underground Guerrillas. 
Removed Guerrillas go to the Available and Casualties boxes alter­
nately, Available first. Shift each space selected one level toward 
Opposition; if the space is already at Oppose, it stays at Oppose but 
place a Terror marker (if one is not already there). For each Base 
removed, add one Commitment.
4.3 FLN Special Activities 
The FLN may choose from Extort, Subvert, or Ambush Special 
Activities. 
4.3.1 Extort. This may accompany any Operation. Extort enables 
the FLN to gain Resources from areas they inhabit. They may Extort 
in any spaces with Pop 1 or more that have both at least one Un­
derground Guerrilla and FLN Control (1.7, includes Morocco and 
Tunisia when these countries become independent, 5.1.8). 
Procedure: For each selected space, Activate one Underground 
Guerrilla there (1.4.3). Add 1 to FLN Resources (1.8). 
4.3.2 Subvert. This may accompany Rally, March, or Terror (3.3.1, 
-.2, -.4). Subversion removes Algerian cubes, or replaces them with 
Guerrillas. It may take place in up to two spaces, with at least one 
Underground Guerrilla and any Algerian cubes. 
Procedure: Remove a total of up to two Algerian cubes (Troops or 
Police) from among the selected spaces, or in one space replace one 
Algerian Police cube with an Underground Guerrilla. Removed or re­
placed pieces go to Available. Note that the Guerrilla is not Activated.
4.3.3 Ambush. This may accompany Attack (3.3.3). Ambush enables 
the FLN to ensure the success of an Attack. It may take place in 
up to two spaces that have both been selected for an Attack not yet 
resolved, and have at least one Underground Guerrilla. 
Procedure: Instead of the usual Attack procedure (3.3.3), the Attack 
in that space Activates one Underground Guerrilla only. It automati­
cally succeeds (do not roll) but removes only one enemy piece (using 
the same order of precedence as in Attack: Police first, then Troops, 
then Bases). For each Base removed, subtract one Commitment. 
Attrition (3.3.3) does not apply in Ambushes: if a French piece was 
removed, do not also remove the Guerrilla. 
5.0 Events 
Each Event card bears a title, italicized flavor text, and Event text. 
Flavor text provides historical interest and has no effect on play. 
Card
Number 
Title
Italicized 
Flavor Text 
Event 
Text 
Lasting 
Effects
Indicator 
(5.3) 
Shaded Text 
(see Dual 
Use 5.2) 
Marked for 
FLN play 
(see 8.3)
5.1 Executing Events 
When a player executes an Event, they carry out the Event text 
literally (sometimes involving actions or decisions by the other 
player). Unless otherwise specified, the executing player makes all 
selections involved in implementing the text, such as which pieces 
are affected or which player will execute a Free Operation (5.5). If 
another player is specified or selected to take an action, that player 
decides the details of the action. Some Events with lasting effects 
(Capabilities) have markers as aids to play. 
5.1.1 Where Event text contradicts rules, the Event takes precedence. 
EXAMPLE: The shaded text on Card #37, Integration allows 
the FLN player to carry out a free Subvert, without the normal 
requirement to do an Operation or have an underground Guerrilla 
in the space. 
However: 
•	 Events may not violate stacking (e.g. do not place Bases where 
there are already two, nor Government forces outside of Algeria, 
1.4.2 – though there is an Event card that permits placing up to 
three Bases in Morocco and Tunisia). 
•	 Events place only available pieces (1.4.1) and markers unless 
specifying from Out of Play or Casualties; they remove rather than 
replace if the replacement is not Available or if stacking (1.4.2) 
would be violated. 
•	 Events may not raise Resources beyond 50 (1.8). 
5.1.2 If two Events contradict, the currently played Event takes 
precedence. 

5.1.3 An executed Event’s text that can be implemented must be 
implemented. If not all of its text can be carried out, implement 
that part which can. 
5.1.4 Pivotal Events are Events that have preconditions for play and 
pre-empt other Event cards. Either player may play a Pivotal Event 
card at the beginning of the turn, before the First Eligible player 
has chosen an action. The player who plays a Pivotal Event card 
executes that Event instead of the ordinary Event card, and becomes 
or remains First Eligible. See 2.3.7. 
Sample Pivotal Event card
Government: Coup d’etat, Mobilization, Recall De Gaulle
FLN: Morocco and Tunisia Independent, OAS, Suez Crisis
5.1.5 COUP D’ETAT Pivotal Event
Unlike other Pivotal Events, this card is kept by the Government 
player after playing it. It may be used multiple times but no more 
than once per Campaign (2.3.7). 
To execute the card, each player rolls 1d6. 
•	 If the Government player rolls higher: both the Recall de Gaulle 
and/or OAS cards are cancelled if in play. Remove these cards 
from the game. Add Commitment equal to the lower of the two 
die rolls, and add Resources equal to the sum of the two rolls.
•	 If the FLN player rolls higher, they may choose to remove Troops 
or subtract Commitment. In either case remove cubes or subtract 
Commitment equal to the lower of the two die rolls. Troops 
removed may be taken from the map or Available, and are placed 
in Out of Play (FLN may choose which Troop cubes to remove, 
but if FLN removes Troops there is no change in Commitment).
•	 If the rolls are tied, there is no change (but the card is considered 
to have been played).
The Recall de Gaulle Pivotal Event may not be played until Coup 
d’Etat has been played at least once during the game. It is considered 
to have been played already at the beginning of the Short Scenario.
EXAMPLE 1: The Government player plays Coup d’Etat. Both 
players roll 1d6: Government gets a”3”, and FLN gets a “4”. FLN 
decides to remove Troops, chooses three Troop cubes from the map 
and places them in Out of Play.
EXAMPLE 2: The Government player plays Coup d’Etat while 
Recall de Gaulle is in play. Both players roll 1d6: Government 
gets a”4”, and FLN gets a “2”. Recall de Gaulle is removed from 
play; OAS is also removed even though it was not in play, because 
it is now impossible to play it. Government adds two Commitment 
and six Resources.
5.1.6 MOBILIZATION Pivotal Event
This card is used only in the Full Scenario. It may not be played 
unless the total of Opposition plus FLN Bases is equal to or greater 
than 15. 
•	 When executed, the Government player may immediately move 
any number of pieces from Out of Play to Available, up to one-
half the current Commitment Level (round up), at no cost in 
Commitment. 
•	 Also, from this point on, the Government player may Resettle 
Sectors (4.2.1) and the FLN player may play the Morocco and 
Tunisia Independent Pivotal Event (5.1.8).
5.1.7 RECALL DE GAULLE Pivotal Event
This card may not be played unless the Coup d’Etat Pivotal Event 
card has been played at least once. When it is played, it stays in effect 
for the rest of the game unless cancelled by a subsequent play of 
Coup d’Etat. The card has three effects while in play:
•	 In addition to being able to select any City or Sector with a 
Government Base for Train, Government may now also select 
any Populated Sector with Government control and Troops and 
Police (but may still Pacify only one selected space per card and 
one shift per Pacify). 
•	 In the Resources and Commitment Adjustment Phase of the 
Propaganda Round (6.2.1), the number of French pieces in the 
Available Box no longer adds to Government Resources, and 
French Casualties no longer affect the Commitment Level. 
However, Government now does receive Resources equal to Total 
Support.
•	 It permits the FLN player to play the OAS Pivotal Event (5.3.1).
5.1.8 MOROCCO AND TUNISIA INDEPENDENT Pivotal 
Event
This card may not be played unless Mobilization (5.1.6) has been 
played. When it is played: 
•	 Morocco and Tunisia become FLN sanctuaries. These two Country 
spaces are treated as Mountain Sectors that are always at Oppose 
and under FLN Control. FLN pieces may not enter these spaces 
until after the card is played, and Government pieces may never 
enter these spaces. The FLN player may now execute Rally or 
March in these spaces, and may also Extort in them since they 
have a Population Value of 1 (though these Population Values are 
never added to the Total Opposition, 1.6.3). Also, the FLN player 
may not take pieces from Morocco or Tunisia if placing forces 
that are not available elsewhere (1.4.1).
•	 The Government player places the Status marker in the “0” box 
of the Border Zone Track. They may improve (move towards “4”) 
the Border Zone Status through Train Operations. The Border 
Zone Status will move towards “0” in the Reset Phase of each 
Propaganda Round.
•	 From now on, Police in Border Sectors count as Troops in Assaults 
(3.2.4).
DESIGN NOTE: The Border Zone represents the construction 
of the Morice Line, a barrier built to prevent infiltration to and 
from Morocco and Tunisia. In most places this consisted of an 
eight-foot tall electrified fence protected by continuous barbed 
wire entanglements and minefields on either side of it. The line 
was constantly patrolled by large numbers of soldiers, who were 
guided to infiltration attempts by systems of alarms, radars, 

searchlights and air surveillance. 
The Morice Line was effective but took a long time to complete 
and consumed a large amount of resources. Years later the United 
States contemplated building a similar “McNamara Line” to 
prevent infiltration of South Vietnam. To a lesser extent, the Bor­
der Zone also represents the presence of the French Navy, which 
patrolled the Mediterranean to prevent insurgent movement and 
supplies into or out of Algeria by sea.
5.1.9 SUEZ CRISIS Pivotal Event
This card has no preconditions (except that, per 1.8, the FLN player 
must have at least six Resources to satisfy its execution). When the 
FLN player plays the card, the Government player removes 1d6 
French Troops from map spaces and/or Available (his choice which) 
and sets them aside. Both players subtract six Resources. 
In the next Propaganda Round, the FLN player (only) will receive 
six Resources in the Resource Phase. The French Troops removed 
will return in the Redeploy Phase. The Government player may 
place them in any Cities or spaces with friendly Bases, at no cost 
in Commitment. 
5.2 Dual-Use 
Many Events have both an unshaded and shaded Event text. The 
executing player may select either the unshaded or shaded text to 
carry out (not both). While the unshaded text often favors the Gov­
ernment, a player may select either text option. 
DESIGN NOTE: Dual-Use events represent opposed effects of 
the same cause, forks in the historical road, or instances subject 
to alternative historical interpretation. 
 
5.3 Capabilities 
Dual-Use Events marked “GOVERNMENT CAPABILITY” or 
“FLN CAPABILITY”, have lasting effects mainly relating to that 
player. When executing such an Event, place the corresponding 
marker on the appropriate side (unshaded or shaded) in the Capabili­
ties box. The Event’s effects last for the rest of the game (exception: 
there is one Event that removes a Capability). 
There are two Dual-Use capabilities, OAS and TORTURE. When 
either of these cards is executed it is in effect for the rest of the game 
(unless cancelled by executing the “Change in Tactics” Event card).
PLAY NOTE: Set out executed Capabilities Event cards near the 
affected player(s) as added reminders. 
 
There are small markers supplied to remind 
players of the effects of certain Capabilities 
in certain spaces. The “Taleb/Amateur Bomb­
er” markers are placed in the three City 
spaces, while the “Napalm/Commandos de Chasse” markers are 
placed in Mountain Sectors.
5.3.1 OAS
The card may be played only if the Recall de Gaulle 
Pivotal Event card is already in effect. It is automati­
cally cancelled if Recall de Gaulle is cancelled, and 
it may also be cancelled by executing the Change in 
Tactics card. 
When the card is executed its provisions come into effect and may be 
used by either player in place of any Special Activity they perform 
(the player must perform an Op & Special Activity; they may not 
do an Op-only or LimOp and use the capability). 
•	 Select one non-Terrorized Populated space in Algeria. Place a 
Terror marker there and set the space to Neutral.
•	 Subtract Commitment equal to the Population Value of the space. 
Subtract FLN Resources equal to twice the Population Value of 
the space. 
Reminder: refer to 1.8. If a player does not have sufficient Resources 
or Commitment to pay for a given action or choice, they may not 
perform it. However, if a player is required to lose Resources or 
Commitment beyond zero because of the other player’s actions, they 
may not have a “deficit” inflicted on them – the index is lowered to 
zero and the excess is ignored.
5.3.2 TORTURE
Either player may execute this Event card to bring the 
card’s two provisions into play.
DESIGN NOTE: This does give the Government player a short-
term military advantage but acts against him politically, so it could 
be to either player’s advantage to execute the Event. 
5.4 Momentum 
Event text (unshaded, shaded, or both) marked “GOVERNMENT 
MOMENTUM” or “FLN MOMENTUM” also includes lasting 
effects for that player (there are also Event cards marked only 
“MOMENTUM”, because they have effects on both players). When 
executing such text, place the card in view near the draw pile. It has 
effects specified to last until the next Propaganda Round’s Reset 
Phase (6.5), when the card is discarded. 
NOTE: Any number of Momentum Events can be in play simul­
taneously. 
5.5 Free Operations 
Some Events allow a player an immediate Operation or Special 
Activity that interrupts the usual sequence of play and typically is 
free: it bears no Resource cost and does not affect Eligibility (3.1.2, 
2.3.1), though other procedures and restrictions remain unless mod­
ified by Event text (5.1.1).
NOTE: Pacification and Agitation cost Resources even if part of free 
Operations (3.2.1, 3.3.1). A free Ambush Special Activity occurs as 
if an Attack were occurring in the space (4.3.3).

6.0 Propaganda Rounds 
Conduct a Propaganda Round in 
the sequence of phases below. 
Exceptions: Never conduct more 
than one Propaganda Round 
in a row (without at least one 
Event card in between). Instead, 
additional Propaganda cards are 
played without a Propaganda 
Round. Do not conduct a Victory 
Phase on the first Propaganda 
Round. If this is the final Pro­
paganda Round (2.4.1), end the 
game after the Support Phase and 
determine victory (7.3). 
6.1 Victory Phase 
Do not conduct a Victory Phase on the first Propaganda Round. If 
any player has met their victory condition, the game ends. See Vic­
tory (7.0). Otherwise, continue with the Propaganda Round. After 
conducting the final Propaganda card’s Round (2.4.1), determine 
victory per 7.3. 
6.2 Resources and Commitment Adjustment 
Phase 
Follow these steps to add to the relevant player’s Resources or 
Commitment, to a minimum of 0 or a maximum of 50 (1.8). 
6.2.1 Government Resource Adjustment.
Add to Government Resources:
•	 The current Commitment Level.
•	 For each Sector (not City) with Government Control and at least 
one Government Base in it, Resources equal to the Population 
Value of the Sector.
•	 The number of French pieces in the Available box (but not if the 
Recall de Gaulle Pivotal Event is in effect (5.1.7).
•	 Total Support (but only if the Recall de Gaulle Pivotal Event is 
in effect (5.1.7).
Subtract from Government Resources:
•	 The number of Resettled Sectors.
6.2.2 FLN Resource Adjustment.
Add to FLN Resources: 
•	 The number of FLN Bases on the map.
•	 The indicated “+Resource” number of the current box on the 
France Track.
Subtract from FLN Resources: 
•	 The Border Zone Status number (if Morocco and Tunisia are 
independent).
NOTE: This represents interference of the French Navy and the 
border interdiction zones in preventing supplies and trainees 
arriving for the FLN.
6.2.3 Commitment Adjustment.
•	 Move any number of French pieces from Out of Play to Available, 
and subtract Commitment equal to one-third of total French pieces 
moved (round up).
•	 Move any number of French pieces from Available to Out of Play, 
and add Commitment equal to one-third of total French pieces 
moved (round down).
•	 Subtract Commitment equal to one-third of total French pieces 
in the Casualties box (round down) (do not do this if Recall de 
Gaulle Pivotal Event is in effect (5.1.7).
•	 Subtract the “-Commit” number from the current box on the 
France Track. 
6.3 Support Phase 
Players may spend Resources to affect popular Support and Op­
position (1.6). 
6.3.1 Pacification. The Government player may expend Resources 
to build Support in any space with Government Control and Troops 
and Police. Every two Resources spent removes a Terror marker 
or—once no Terror is in a space—shifts the space one level toward 
Support, to a maximum of two levels per space. The Government 
may not spend more Resources in this Phase than the current Com­
mitment Level (1.8, 6.2.3). (See also Train, 3.2.1) 
DESIGN NOTE: Troops and Police or local militias together 
provide the security needed to gain popular support. 
6.3.2 Agitation. The FLN player may spend Resources to build 
Opposition in any spaces with FLN pieces and no Government Con­
trol (1.7). Every one Resource expended removes a Terror marker 
or—once no Terror is in a space—shifts the space one level toward 
Opposition, to a maximum of two levels per space. 
6.3.3 Game End? If and only if this is the final Round (2.4.1), end 
the game and determine victory (7.3). Otherwise, carry on with the 
Redeploy and Reset Phases.
6.4 Redeploy Phase 
Redeploy forces as follows. Government player goes first. Do not 
adjust Control until finished. 
6.4.1 Government Redeploy. The Government player may move any 
Troops on the map to any Cities or spaces with friendly Bases. Any 
Police on the map may move to any Government Controlled spaces.
6.4.2 FLN Redeploy. The FLN player may now move any Guerrillas 
from any space or spaces within a given Wilaya, to any other space 
or spaces within the same Wilaya with a friendly Base or Bases. 
DESIGN NOTE: The FLN leaders for each Wilaya were mis­
trustful of one another, jealous of their resources and not well 
coordinated or commanded by the FLN headquarters, which was 
outside of Algeria. Players may still March their Guerrillas into 
different Wilayas during campaigns, and there is an FLN Capa­
bility which allows them to Redeploy from any spaces in Algeria 
to any other spaces in Algeria with a friendly Base.
6.4.3 Control. Now adjust Control (1.7) to reflect the above moves. 
6.5 Reset Phase 
Take one in three French pieces and one in three Guerrillas (round 
down, player’s choice exactly which) in the Casualties box and put 
them in the Out of Play box. Put all other Casualties into their re­
spective Available boxes. Then prepare for the next card as follows: 
•	 Move the France Track marker one box toward “A”. Move the 
Border Zone Status marker one box towards “0” (5.1.8). 
•	 Remove a Terror marker from each space where there is at least 
one (3.3.4). 

•	 Flip all Guerrillas Underground (1.4.3). 
•	 Place any Momentum cards that were in effect onto the played 
cards—their Events’ effects no longer apply (5.4).
•	 Set the cylinders on the Sequence of Play chart diagram to show 
the FLN is First Eligible.
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck (2.3.6). 
7.0 Victory
Each player has unique victory conditions, covered below and on 
the Player Aid sheets. 
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
If no player reaches their victory condition by game end, or both 
players have reached their victory conditions, the player that reached 
the highest victory margin (7.3) wins. Ties go to the FLN. 
7.2 During Propaganda Rounds 
Check victory at the start of each Propaganda Round except the 
first (6.1). Compare the positions of the two Victory markers (1.9) 
to the thresholds marked on the Edge Track. Victory conditions are: 
Government: Total Support (1.6.2) plus Commitment (1.8) exceeds 
35. 
FLN: Total Opposition (1.6.2) plus number of FLN Bases on the 
map exceeds 30. 
7.3 After Final Propaganda 
If the final Propaganda Round (2.4.1) is completed without a victory 
check win (7.2), the player with the highest victory margin wins. 
The victory margin is the amount a Faction is beyond or short of its 
condition set forth in 7.2. 
NOTE: The victory margin will be positive if the Faction has reached 
or surpassed its goal, negative or zero if it has not. 
Government: Total Support + Commitment – 35. 
FLN: Total Opposition + Bases – 30. 
Victory Deception Option: For a bit more “fog of 
war”, each player at start blindly draws two Deception 
markers. Set aside the rest; they may not be inspect­
ed. Players may reveal their Deception markers only 
as they use them: 
•	 Empty Threat: No effect (reveal at game end). 
•	 Hidden Agenda: Permanently add +1 to the holding player’s 
victory margin (7.3). 
•	 Hidden Asset: Convert any one Limited Op option (2.3.4) into a 
full Op & Special Activity option instead. The player may choose 
to use this marker if they are able to choose a Limited Op due to 
their eligibility (2.3.2); if the player was First Eligible, they remain 
First Eligible (that is, the player’s cylinder remains in the Limited 
Op space on the Initiative Track). Discard the marker after use.
Stop!
You have read all rules needed for a two-player game, or a game 
with one human playing both factions.
8.0 Non-Player Faction Rules
This section governs actions in games where there is a single human 
player who does not wish to play both factions. The player will play 
the Government faction and the Non-Player Sequence of Play aid 
sheet will direct the player on what to do when the FLN acts. See 
also the Playbook’s 1-Player Examples of Play.
Important: For the one-player game of Colonial Twilight, it is 
strongly recommended that the Player sets up the Short Scenario 
as the rules have been optimized for this scenario.
NOTE: the Non-Player Sequence of Play aid sheet is presented in 
the form of a flowchart meant to assist the single human player in 
determining the FLN’s actions. While great care has been taken to 
cover a great deal of possible cases, it cannot realistically be expect­
ed for the guidelines to anticipate, cover or otherwise prescribe for 
every circumstance possible during a game. Players are respectfully 
encouraged to use their imagination or, in extreme cases, common 
sense to resolve these situations.
8.1 Non-Player Sequence of Play
To use the flowchart, begin at “Start”, and follow the arrows per the 
answers to “diamond” questions until an action is found.
•	 To the extent permitted by the Sequence of Play and per the 
priorities detailed in the sequential steps (1, 2, etc.) within the 
flowchart boxes, conduct each action to the fullest extent until 
eligible spaces or Resources run out.
•	 Many actions contain tie breaker clauses in bold [green]. The tie 
breakers are used if and as needed, one by one in the order given 
(a, b, etc.), to narrow the number of spaces already selected down 
to the number needed.
•	 Text in italics [red] is not a priority but a reminder of relevant 
rules of play. 
•	 Operations Possibly Limited. Unlike other games in the COIN 
Series, the Non-Player options are subject to the rules of the 
Sequence of Play as detailed in 2.0: the Non-Player only gets 
those options that are available to it per the Sequence of Play. 
Remember that the First Eligible player’s cylinder on the Initiative 
Track is placed in accordance with what the player actually did; 
so if, after all was said and done, a First Eligible Non-Player 
conducted an Operation in only one space and conditions did 
not permit any Special Activity, the cylinder would be placed 
in “Limited Operation”. Correspondingly, if the Non-Player is 
Second Eligible, its choice of available options will be limited 
by what the Player did.
•	 Special Activities. If the Non-Player is First Eligible, and it is 
to execute an Operation, it will also perform a Special Activity 
if (and only if) the relevant Non-Player priorities lead it to do 
so (and so become Second Eligible next card) and that option is 
available per the Sequence of Play.
•	 Low Resources. When the Non-Player begins the turn with zero 
Resources, and will not or cannot execute the Event or Extort, it 
Passes instead (earning Resources, 2.3.3). 
8.1.1 Operations, Special Activities, and Events. To execute 
FLN Operations and Special Activities or a specific Event, see the 
Non-Player Sequence of Play flowcharts and the relevant rules 
below.
Guidelines: Unless otherwise specified, carry out whatever actions 
apply to the maximum extent (such as with the most pieces allowed 
and only as long as needed pieces and Resources are available). 

Normal Resource costs, requirements, and procedures still apply.
EXAMPLE: Non-Player Terror requires Activating an Underground 
Guerrilla and costs one Resource per space, per 3.3.4.
8.1.2 Procedure Guidelines. When conducting Events or Operations 
and Special Activities, unless otherwise specified by the Event text or 
the Non-Player priorities, the Non-Player FLN will follow these gen­
eral guidelines (still always within the dictates of the rules of play):
•	 Place friendly pieces from Out of Play first, then from Available 
(if choice); place Bases before Guerrillas
•	 Place Underground Guerrillas before Active ones unless if placing 
from the map in which case place Active Guerrillas only (flipping 
them Underground in the process).
•	 March with Underground Guerrillas before Active, unless the 
March is certain to Activate the Guerrilla in which case March 
with Active before Underground Guerrillas.
•	 Place Guerrillas in spaces at Support, otherwise where there are 
other friendly pieces already; if unable, then place in random 
spaces (see 8.2).
•	 When placing from the map (e.g. during a Rally), place Active 
Guerrilla pieces (and Active only) from the map to other spaces 
on the map (as per 1.4.1). Thereby
	 ◊ never remove either of the last two Guerrillas from any FLN 
Base nor from a Support space.
	 ◊ remove first from where there are the most Guerrillas.
•	 Remove and replace Guerrillas before Bases, Active Guerrillas 
before Underground.
•	 If there is a choice, remove enemy pieces from the map then from 
Available; remove enemy Bases, then French before Algerians, 
then or within that, Troops before Police.
•	 If there is a choice, reduce Commitment first, then Support, 
then the France Track (toward box “F” only), then Government 
Resources.
•	 Shift Support/Opposition where achieving the greatest shift in 
Support and Opposition combined first (removing Terror markers 
only if also able to achieve a shift), otherwise affect shifts of 
Support first, then Opposition.
•	 Otherwise make space and other selections randomly (see 8.2).
8.1.3 Abbreviations and Terminology Used. The flowcharts and/
or the priorities below make use of the following abbreviations and 
terminology (in the alphabetical order).
1+, 2+, etc. = One or more, two or more, etc.
1d6 ÷ 2$ = The roll value of one six-sided die divided by two, 
rounding down.
AND: The use of the capitalized “and” indicates that both sides of 
the conjunction must be realizable and/or true, for the conjunction 
as a whole to be evaluated (as true or as executable).
Max = Maximum.
Op (+SA) = Operation (and Special Activity, if and as instructed by 
the Non-Player priorities).
OR: The use of the capitalized “OR” indicates that at least one side 
(or both) of the disjunction must be realizable and/or true, for the 
disjunction as a whole to be evaluated (as true or as executable).
Res = Resources.
Will/ Would: The “will” and “would”, as used in some of the “di­
amond” questions, refer to what will or would definitively happen 
were an action executed according to the relevant Non-Player action 
instructions.
8.2 Random Spaces
If several candidate spaces have equal priority for a Non-player 
Operation, Special Activity, or Event, select a space using the Ran­
dom Spaces Map:
•	 Roll the two dice in succession and refer to the Random Spaces 
Map: the first die thrown indicates the “tens”, the second die the 
“ones” (Example: “2” followed by “6” is 26, Laghouat). If the 
first die is a “6”, roll again.
•	 If the resulting space is not a candidate, follow the arrows on the 
Random Spaces Map until a candidate space is reached. Loop 
back to Morocco from Tunisia (or vice versa).
•	 Carry out as much of the action as possible in the candidate space 
reached, then roll again to select another, if needed.
PLAY NOTE: More simply, choose among a few candidate spaces 
by die roll instead.
8.3 Executing Events
NOTE: Events will not always benefit the FLN directly.
•	 FLN executing a Dual-Use Event (5.2) will always use the shaded 
text except when otherwise specified in the Event Instructions 
printed on the of the flowchart (see card #51. Stripey Hole).
•	 FLN executes the text of all Non-Dual-Use Events (e.g. #52. 
Cabinet Shuffle) as if it were shaded, unless the Event Instructions 
specify otherwise.
•	
Some Event cards have a symbol printed on them to indicate 
that the FLN will always play them (if able per the Sequence 
of Play, 2.0) and/or that there are instructions for the card printed 
in the “Events Marked for FLN” section of the Player Aid.
•	 For free Operations or Special Activities afforded by Events, use 
the FLN priorities for that Operation or Special Activity (8.4).
•	 Capabilities (5.3) and Momentum (5.4). The FLN will always 
opt for Capability Events (regardless of which Faction’s Capability 
it is). They only opt for Momentum Events if instructed to do so 
by the “Events Marked for FLN” section of the Player Aid.
•	 Ineffective Events. The FLN will opt only for Events the playing 
of which by the FLN would have an effect (something happens, 
including Capabilities and certain Momentum Events).
•	 When there is a choice of who gets Event benefits the FLN always 
selects itself for a benefit first, then to inflict disadvantage on the 
Government.
•	 Pivotal Events. The Non-Player FLN will play the Morocco and 
Tunisia Independent Pivotal Event after the Government player 
plays the Mobilization Pivotal Event, at the first opportunity where 
the just revealed Event is marked for FLN AND FLN are second 
Eligible. The Non-Player FLN will never play the Suez Crisis or 
OAS Pivotal Events. If the Government player plays the Coup 
d’Etat Pivotal Event and the FLN wins the die roll, choose to 
reduce Commitment by the lower die roll.
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: The FLN is First Eligible and 
the Event card is Change in Tactics. No Capabilities markers are 
yet in play. The Event would have no effect, so the FLN moves on 
to consider an Attack, possibly with Ambush.

8.4. Non-Player FLN Actions
Select the FLN actions as follows.
8.4.1 Pass. If the FLN has 0 Resources AND only a Limited Oper­
ation is available to it, then Pass (for an additional Resource, 2.3.3).
8.4.2 Terror. If the Pass conditions are not met, and either all Alge­
rian FLN Bases in spaces with a Population of 1 or more have two or 
more Underground Guerrillas in them AND all Algerian FLN Bases 
in 0 Population spaces have one or more Underground Guerrillas in 
them, OR if the Government has already selected an action that puts 
it Second Eligible on the next card, then attempt to execute Terror 
as follows. Otherwise, skip straight to Rally (8.4.5) now.
When conducting the actions below, execute them such that FLN 
will not Activate the last Underground Guerrilla in a space with an 
FLN Base (so exposing the Base). FLN will pause to Extort if at 0 
Resources and Extort is possible.
•	 First, if the current Event is playable by FLN per the Eligibility 
order AND the playing of the Event by FLN would reduce the 
Government victory margin more or as much as Terror per the 
next bullet below would, do not conduct Terror but skip straight 
to 8.4.3 Event below now.
•	 Otherwise, FLN will execute Terror whereever it can remove 
Support (if short on Resources, select the spaces with highest 
Population Value first).
•	 Then, if the Terror Operation is taking place in the final Cam­
paign (that is, the next Propaganda Card will be the last one of 
the game), FLN will also execute Terror in any spaces that are 
currently Neutral and Pacifiable (that is, in a City or Sector with 
Government Base, or, if Recall de Gaulle is in effect, also in a 
Sector with Troops and Police and Government Control). Select 
spaces with the highest Population Value first if Resources are 
insufficient to execute Terror everywhere. NOTE: Terror does not 
place more Terror markers to spaces that already have at least one 
(3.3.4).
When finished, and if a Special Activity is permitted, conduct Sub­
vert, or failing that, Extort, as below.
If none: If no Terror is possible, consider playing the current Event 
per 8.4.3 below.
Subvert: Subvert (4.3.2) as follows, acting in up to two spaces with 
an Underground Guerrilla and an Algerian cube: first, in up to two 
spaces, to remove a space’s last cube or cubes choosing spaces to 
remove Police first, then Troops; otherwise, in one space, replace one 
Algerian Police with a Guerrilla. Finally, only if Subvert above has 
already removed pieces OR the Government was active on the cur­
rent card already, and Subvert has not yet occurred in the maximum 
number of allowed spaces, then Subvert choosing targets randomly. 
If there are no spaces possible for Subvert as detailed above, Extort 
as below. If Subvert was not possible, conduct no Special Activity.
Extort: FLN will never Extort if its Resources are at 5 or more (in 
which case it considers Subvert, or if already did so, conducts no 
Special Activity). FLN may Extort in any populated spaces with an 
Underground Guerrilla and FLN Control (4.3.2), but FLN will never 
Extort to Activate the last Underground Guerrilla in a space with 
an FLN Base (so exposing the Base). Within the above conditions, 
FLN will Extort first at spaces with two or more Guerrillas (3 or 
more Guerrillas if Government cubes and an FLN Base are in the 
space), then in Morocco and Tunisia; finally, only if FLN is still 
at 0 Resources, FLN Extort everywhere possible. If there are no 
spaces possible for Extort as detailed above, Subvert as above, or 
if an Attack without Ambush was conducted, conduct no Special 
Activity. If Extort was not possible, also conduct no Special Activity.
8.4.3 Event. If no Terror occurred, the FLN will consider playing 
the current Event (provided the Event is Effective AND per the 
Eligibility order FLN may play the Event) as follows:
•	 If the Event is marked for FLN play (8.3), or it is a Capability 
Event (of either Faction), FLN will play the current Event (per 
Event Instructions as detailed on the Player Aid, if any).
•	 Otherwise, FLN will play the current Event if they roll 1, 2, 3, or 
4 on a 1d6 AND the FLN’s play of the Event will either:
	 ◊	 reduce the Government’s victory margin, or their Resources, 
or shift the France Track toward box “F”.
	 ◊ place FLN Bases or add to FLN Resources.
If none: If the Event is not played, check to see if the Attack con­
ditions are met.
8.4.4 Attack. If the Event was not played and an Attack (with or 
without Ambush) would remove two or more French pieces, then 
Attack as follows.
When conducting the actions below, execute them such that FLN 
will not Activate the last Underground Guerrilla in a space with an 
FLN Base (so exposing the Base).
•	 First, Attack everywhere, with Ambush if and as needed, where 
FLN will certainly (that is, with groups of six or more Guerrillas, 
or with Ambush) remove a Government piece or pieces. Select 
spaces so as to remove pieces in this order of priority: Bases (for 
–1 Commitment, 3.3.3); French Troops; French Police; the most 
pieces. NOTE: The normal rules of play still apply: in individual 
spaces, Attacks must remove Police first, then Troops, then Bases 
(3.3.3).
•	 Then, Attack in one space with at least four Guerrillas and a 
Government piece. Select the Attack spaces per the priority order 
given in the bullet above. 
When finished, and if a Special Activity is permitted and no Ambush 
occurred yet, conduct Ambush, or failing that, Extort per 8.4.2 above.
If none: If no such Attack is possible, check to see if the Rally 
conditions in 8.4.5 below are met.
Ambush: Ambush (4.3.3) in the first two spaces selected above per 
the Attack priorities. If no Ambush occurred, Extort per 8.4.2 above, 
otherwise conduct no Special Activity.
 
8.4.5 Rally. If the conditions for Terror, Event play, or Attack were 
not met, and either a Rally (in the first or second bullet below) would 
place at least one Base OR the number of FLN Bases on the map 
(both in Algeria and abroad) multiplied by two is greater than the 
number of all Guerrillas in spaces with FLN Bases (Underground 
or Activated, in Algeria and abroad) plus 1d6 divided by two (round 
down), then Rally as follows.
Stopping when whichever limit is reached first, FLN will Rally in 
up to six spaces, or expend up to two-thirds (round down) of its 
Resources in doing so (unless FLN begins the Operation with 8 

or fewer Resources, in which case it observes no limit). FLN will 
pause to Extort if at 0 Resources (whether at the start or during the 
Operation) and Extort is possible. Finally, at the end of the Rally, 
FLN will Agitate, if able (per the bullets 6 or 9 below).
Important: In the course of executing the priorities below, FLN will 
never Rally to place a second FLN Base in any space in Algeria.
Important: When conducting the Rallies below, place Guerrillas 
until none are left in Available, then from the map (as detailed in the 
fifth bullet of 8.1.2 above), and finally, during Rallies thereafter, flip 
Active Guerrillas at FLN Bases Underground. Within that, place or 
flip Guerrillas such that at most the Population Value of the space 
plus 1 Guerrillas, at least one of them Underground, will exist in 
each Base space. (See Playbook’s 1-Player Example of Play.)
•	 First, in all spaces with three or more Guerrillas, no Government 
cubes (ignoring this condition if conducting a Limited Operation 
per the Sequence of Play) and room for a Base: replace two 
Guerrillas with a Base, replacing Active Guerrillas if possible (as 
per 8.1.2).
•	 Then, in all spaces with four or more Guerrillas and room for 
a Base: replace two Guerrillas with a Base, replacing Active 
Guerrillas if possible.
•	 Then, at all spaces with FLN Bases with no or one Underground 
Guerrillas, but in Morocco or Tunisia and in spaces with 0 
Population only if no Guerrilla is Underground there: place 
Guerrillas (first selecting spaces in Algeria, then or within that, in 
spaces with cubes, then or within the above, where there is one or 
more Population, then or within the above, where there are least 
Guerrillas Underground). 
•	 Then, shift the France Track marker (3.3.1) toward box “F”, if 
able.
•	 Then, at all non-City spaces at Support that have no Underground 
Guerrilla: place Guerrillas (in highest Population Value spaces 
first).
•	 Then, if able (at FLN Control or Base), select and reserve 
Resources to Agitate at the conclusion of this Rally Operation, 
in a space with 2+ Population (conducting also a Rally there if 
none yet).
•	 Then, in up to two spaces with the highest Population Value: place 
Guerrillas (first in a Neutral space where able to gain FLN Control 
in, then or within that, where able to remove Government Control, 
that is, to make the space Uncontrolled or FLN Controlled, then 
or within the above, in a Wilaya with a City and, then or within 
the above, prioritize spaces with the least Terror markers).
• Then, in up to two spaces where Guerrillas and no FLN Base 
already exist: place Guerrillas (first selecting spaces in Algeria, 
then or within that, in spaces where there are the largest number 
of Guerrillas, and then or within both of the above, where there 
are no Government Cubes).
•	 Finally, if no Agitation space was selected in the 6th bullet above, 
Agitate for the greatest possible shift in one space with FLN 
Control or a Base (conducting also a Rally there if none yet).
When finished, if a Special Activity is permitted, conduct Subvert, 
or failing that, Extort per 8.4.2 above.
If none: If no such Rally is possible, then March. If a March was 
not possible either, Pass (8.4.1).
8.4.6 March. If the conditions for Rally were not met, then March 
as follows.
FLN will expend up to two-thirds (round down) of its Resources in 
doing a March (unless FLN begins the Operation with 8 or fewer 
Resources, in which case it observes no limit) pausing to Extort if 
at 0 Resources (whether at the start or during the Operation) and 
Extort is possible. When conducting the actions below, execute them 
such that FLN will not March the last Underground Guerrilla, or 
either of the last two Guerrillas, from any FLN Base space, nor will 
it March the last Guerrilla from any space at Support. FLN will not 
March so as to trigger Government Control of any populated space.
Important: Unless Dead Zones is in effect (5.4), if and as helpful 
to fulfilling any of the priorities below, FLN will use the ability of 
Guerrillas to March again even if they just Marched but are still in 
the same Wilaya (3.3.2). Also, if and as helpful, FLN will March 
out of Morocco and/or Tunisia (even if becoming Active due to 
the Border Zone Track, 1.3.4, 1.3.7) as well as combine Marching 
Guerrillas from multiple source spaces to enter single destinations. 
Also keep in mind the third bullet of 8.1.2 for instructions on the 
March order of Active versus Underground Guerrillas.
•	 First, March to get one Underground Guerrilla to each FLN Base 
in Algeria that does not have one (prioritize spaces to which the 
March costs the least).
•	 Then, March one Guerrilla to each space at Support (or two 
Guerrillas to up to one City space if the Amateur Bombers 
Capability is in effect) if no Guerrillas are there already. (If 
multiple candidates, March first to where the marching pieces 
will stay Underground, then or within that, prioritize spaces to 
which the March costs the least.) Important: Except in the final 
Campaign (that is, the next Propaganda Card will be the last one 
of the game), FLN will March into spaces at Support even if this 
sets the Guerrilla to Active due to the number of cubes there.
•	 Then, March to remove Government Control (that is, with enough 
Guerrillas to make the space Uncontrolled) in one populated 
Sector not at Oppose (if there is a choice, March first to a Mountain 
space, then or within that, take the one with the highest Population 
Value and, then or within the above, the space to which the March 
costs the least).
•	 Then, March exactly three Guerrillas (possibly from multiple 
sources) to a non-Resettled Population 0 space with room for a 
Base (first where there are the fewest Government Cubes, then 
or within that, to a Mountain space, then or within the above, to 
the space to which the March costs the least, then or within the 
above, prioritize the March during which at least one Guerrilla 
stays Underground).
When finished, if a Special Activity is permitted, conduct Subvert, 
or failing that, Extort, as detailed in 8.4.2 above.
If none: If no such March is possible, then Rally. If a Rally was not 
possible either, Pass (8.4.1).
8.5 Propaganda Round Procedures for the Non-
Player Faction
8.5.1 Resources and Commitment Phase. If this is the final Pro­
paganda Round, the 1-Player game ends at the end of this phase. 
Judge Victory as in 8.6.
Optional rule: For a different kind of challenge and lesser difficulty, 
conduct the full final Propaganda Round as normal.
8.5.2 Support Phase. If this is the final Propaganda Round, 
Non-Player FLN will conduct all Agitation (6.3.2) they can. 
Otherwise, FLN will expend up to two-thirds (round down) of its 

Resources. If Resources are insufficient for Agitation everywhere 
it is possible, Agitate first for the greatest shift, then where Support, 
then where fewest Terror markers, then randomly. Remove Terror 
only if a shift would be achieved.
8.5.3 Redeploy Phase. FLN will Redeploy to get at least the Pop­
ulation Value plus 1 Guerrillas in each Base space, but having no 
more than three Guerrillas per space with a Base. Otherwise, spread 
Guerrillas as evenly as possible between Base spaces, within the 
pieces’ current Wilaya. If the CROSS-WILAYA REDEPLOYMENT 
Capability is in effect, FLN will Redeploy to get the Population 
Value plus one Guerrillas, but not more than three in each Base 
space across Algeria.
IMPORTANT: FLN will never Redeploy the last Guerrilla of a 
Support or City space.
8.6 One-Player Victory 
A one-player game ends during a Propaganda Round Victory Phase 
(7.2) only if the Non-Player Faction has a positive victory margin. To 
win, the player must avoid that situation through each Propaganda 
Round and have the higher margin after the final Round. If not, the 
FLN wins the game.
Non-player victory: An armistice is concluded with total inde­
pendence for a new Algeria, which becomes a symbol of Western 
humiliation and a source of inspiration for continued anti-colonial 
revolt across Africa. 
Player victory: If the player does survive to the final Round with 
the higher victory margin, subtract the FLN Victory Margin from 
the player’s to find the degree of success:
5 or less – Negotiated Future. Algeria does win a form of indepen­
dence from France, but neither the stability nor good governance of 
the new country is guaranteed.
6 or more – Vive la France! Diplomacy and strong-arm methods 
have extinguished the virus of armed revolt. Algeria continues as 
an integral part of France, now and forever. 
EXAMPLE: A solo Government player keeps the FLN from reaching 
a positive victory margin through all Propaganda Rounds. At game 
end, with Support + Commitment at 30, Government has a –5 Vic­
tory Margin. Oppose + Bases is 24, for an FLN Victory Margin of 
–6. This is a difference of 1, for a Negotiated Future. A very closely 
negotiated future...
9.0 Key Terms Index
Accompanying—Operation required for Special Activity. (4.1.1) 
Activate—Flip or leave Guerrilla Active. (1.4.3) 
Active—Status of Guerrilla with symbol end up, and of all Bases 
and cubes (1.4.3). 
Adjacent—Spaces next to each other for actions or Events. (1.3.5) 
Agitate, Agitation—FLN spending to remove Terror and increase 
Opposition. (3.3.1, 6.3.2) 
Ambush—FLN Special Activity ensuring Attack success. (4.3.3) 
Attack— FLN Operation that removes enemy pieces. (3.3.3) 
Assault—Government Operation that removes enemy pieces. (3.2.4) 
Available—Forces in holding boxes, waiting to be placed. (1.4.1) 
Base—Immobile force pieces that affect Rally, Train, Resources, 
and Victory, among other functions. (1.4) 
Bases Last—Frequent requirement that no protecting cubes or 
Guerrillas be in a space before removing a Base. (3.2.4, 3.3.3, 
4.2.3, 4.3.3) 
Border Sector—Sector partly bounded by a segment of the border 
with Morocco or Tunisia, e.g. Tlemcen, Biskra (1.3.7). Police in 
Border Sectors count as Troops in Assaults (3.2.4), but only if 
Morocco and Tunisia have become independent (5.1.8).
Border Zone—Track whose status shows the state of defences 
(sensors, surveillance, fortifications, troops) of the border facing 
Morocco or Tunisia. (3.2.1, 3.2.4, 3.3.2, 5.1.8)
Campaign—Event card series leading up to a Propaganda Round. 
(2.4.1) 
Capabilities—Lasting Events that help or hurt a certain Faction’s 
actions. (5.3) 
Casualties—Pieces removed by Operations, Special Activities and 
certain Events. (3.2.4, 3.3.3, 4.3.3, 6.5) 
City—Type of space: urban area. (1.3.3) 
Commitment – Measure of French government and people’s 
willingness to continue prosecuting the war (1.8). Affected by 
in-game contingencies and events (4.2.1, 5.3.1, 6.2.1, 6.2.3)
Control—More pieces of one player in a Sector or City than other 
player. (1.7) 
Cost—Resources spent on an Operation, Pacification, or Agitation. 
(3.1, 4.1, 6.3) 
Country – Type of space: specifically, Morocco or Tunisia (1.3.4, 
5.1.8).
Cube—Troop or Police piece. (1.4) 
Cylinder—Token to mark a Faction’s Resources (1.8, 2.1) and 
Eligibility (2.3).
Deploy—Special Activity to send French forces from Available to 
the map, or vice versa, or to Resettle Sectors. (4.2.1) 
Dual-Use—Event with two alternative effects. (5.2) 
Earnings—Resources that Factions receive each Propaganda 
Round. (6.2). 
Eligible—Able to execute Event or Operation. (2.3) 
Enemy— Relationship between Government and FLN players. (1.5) 
Event—Card with text a Faction may execute. (2.3, 5.0) 
Execute—Implement Event or conduct Operation or Special 
Activity. (2.3) 
Extort—FLN Special Activity that adds Resources. (4.3.1) 
Faction—Player role: Government or FLN. (1.5) 
Final—Last Event or Propaganda card. (2.4.1, 7.3) 
Flip—Switch Guerrilla between Underground and Active (1.4.3)
Forces—Troops, Police, Guerrillas, or Bases. (1.4) 
France Track—Display that shows the state of public opinion with 
respect to the war, and the amount of support the FLN gains from 
organized expatriate workers. (3.2.1, 3.3.1, 6.2, 6.2.3)
Free—Operation or Special Activity via Event that does not cost 
Resources. (3.1.2, 5.5) 
Friendly—The relationship of a player’s pieces among themselves. 
French (blue) and Algerian (green) pieces are Friendly toward 
each other. (1.5) 
Garrison – Government Operation to deploy Police into Populated 
spaces, and to detect FLN pieces. (3.2.2)
Government—Representing the military, political and administrative 
people and resources of the Government of France.
Guerrilla—FLN piece difficult to strike when Underground. (1.4) 

FLN—Representing the armed and politically active elements of 
mostly the Front de Liberation Nationale insurgent organization, 
though other anti-French movements were active at the same 
time. (1.0, 1.5) 
Level—Support/Opposition status of a space. (1.6.1) 
Limited Operation (LimOp)—Operation in only one space with 
no Special Activity. (2.3.4) 
Map—Board spaces: Sectors, Cities, Countries (1.3, 1.3.1). 
March—FLN Operation to move Guerrillas and Troops. (3.3.2) 
Momentum—Events whose effects relate to one player or the other, 
and which remain through next Propaganda Round. (5.4) 
Mountain—Sector type that hinders Assault and detection of 
Guerrillas in Garrison and Sweep operations. (1.3.2, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 
3.2.4) 
Neutral—Space not in Support nor Opposition. (1.6.1) 
Neutralize—Government Special Activity that removes enemy 
pieces (4.2.3) 
Operation (Op)—Core action Faction takes with its forces. (3.0) 
Opposition—A space’s population opposing the French government. 
(1.6) 
Opposition + Bases—Total Opposition plus number of Bases on 
the map: the measure of FLN victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3) 
Out of Play—Box for pieces that are neither Available nor on the 
map. 
Pacify, Pacification—Government activity to increase Support. 
(3.2.1, 6.3.1) 
Pass—Decline to execute an Event or Op when Eligible. (2.3.3) 
Pawn—Token to designate spaces selected for Operation or Special 
Activity. (2.3.4, 3.1.1) 
Phase—Part of a Propaganda Round. (6.0) 
Piece—Force unit: Base, Troop, Police, Guerrilla. (1.4) 
Pivotal Event— Special Event card that can be played voluntarily 
to replace other Events (2.3.7). 
Place—Move a piece from Available to map. (1.4.1) 
Plain—Sector type that does not hinder Garrison, Sweep or Assault 
operations (1.3.2, 3.2) 
Police—Government forces that maintain control and help pacify 
locals. (1.4) 
Population (Pop)—The inhabitants of a Sector or City, about 
300,000 people per point. (1.3.2-.3) 
Populated—A space with a Population Value of 1 or more. (3.2.2, 
4.3.1)
Propaganda—Cards triggering Rounds that include victory checks, 
Resource/Commitment acquisition or adjustment, and other 
periodic functions. (2.4, 6.0) 
Rally—FLN Operation to place or regroup pieces, Agitate, or affect 
the France Track. (3.3.1) 
Redeploy—Propaganda phase in which Factions move pieces. (6.4) 
Remove—Take from map (forces to Available, Casualties, or Out 
of Play as specified). (1.4.1, 3.3.3, 6.4.1 for example) 
Replace—Remove pieces to place others in their stead. (1.4.1, 3.2.1, 
3.3.1, 4.4.1, 4.5.2, 5.1.1) 
Reset—Propaganda Round phase to ready for the next card. (6.5) 
Resettlement—Government option under “Deploy” Special Activity 
that converts Pop 1 Sectors into Pop 0 (4.2.1).
Resources—Players’ wherewithal for Operations. (1.8) 
Sector—Rural space. (1.3.2) 
Select—Choose an action’s locations or targets. (3.1, 4.1, 5.1) 
Selectable—Refers to a space or track that can be chosen for an 
Operation or activity, within the criteria set for that Operation 
or activity.
Set—Change a space’s Support/Opposition to a prescribed level. 
(1.6.1) 
Shaded—Second choice of Dual-Use Event, often anti-Government. 
(5.2) 
Shift—Change Support/Opposition or location of a marker on a 
Track. (1.6.1, 6.5) 
Space—Area holding pieces on the map: Sector, City or Country. 
(1.3.1) 
Special Activities—Actions accompanying Operations, unique to 
a Faction. (4.0) 
Stacking—Limits on pieces that can occupy a space. (1.4.2) 
Subvert—FLN Special Activity to remove or replace Algerian 
pieces. (4.3.2) 
Support—A space’s population favoring the French government, 
or at least the status quo. (1.6) 
Support + Commitment—Total Population Support plus 
Commitment: measure of victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3) 
Sweep—Government Operation to move Troops and flip Guerrillas 
Active. (3.2.3) 
Target—Enemy Faction or piece that is the object of an action. 
(3.1, 4.1) 
Terror—FLN Operation that places a Terror marker in a Sector 
or City and removes Support. Government Neutralize Special 
Activity (4.2.3) and some Event cards may also place Terror 
markers, but do not remove Support unless directed. (3.3.4) 
Total Support/Opposition—Calculation of popular views of the 
Government regime for victory purposes. (1.6.2, 7.2-.3) 
Train—Government Operation to place Algerian cubes, Pacify or 
affect a Track (either Border Zone or the France Track). (3.2.1) 
Troop Lift—Government Special Activity that moves Troops. 
(4.2.2) 
Troops—Mobile Government forces specializing in Sweep and 
Assault. (1.4) 
Uncontrolled—Space with neither Government nor FLN Control. 
(1.7) 
Underground—Guerrilla piece, symbol end down: not subject to 
Assault or Neutralize and capable of Terror, Extort, Subvert, or 
Ambush. (1.4.3, 3.3.4, 4.2.1, 4.3.3, 4.4.3, 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.3) 
Unshaded—First choice of Dual-Use Event, often pro-Government. 
(5.2) 
Victory Margin—Calculation of a Faction’s closeness to its victory 
condition. Usually a negative number (so recall that with negative 
numbers, –3 is larger or higher than –5). (7.3) 

10.0 Scenario Guide
Choose a scenario and decide who will play 
which side. Give each player a Faction fold­
out. Set up the pieces and prepare the card 
deck per the instructions below for that sce­
nario. The FLN player starts as First Eligible 
in all scenarios.
In the Short and Medium scenarios, some 
Event cards will be set aside. They will not 
be used and may not be inspected. Optional­
ly, sort through the unused Event cards and 
reveal the ones that confer Capabilities – un­
shaded for the Government and shaded for the 
FLN (players must agree whether or not to 
implement #18, Torture, at game start). Place 
markers appropriately; these are in effect at 
the beginning of the game. The other cards are 
not used and may not be inspected.
Short: 1960-1962: The 
End Game
Deck: Give the Coup d’Etat and OAS Pivotal 
Event cards to the Government and FLN play­
er respectively. The Recall de Gaulle Pivotal 
Event starts in play. Shuffle 36 random Event 
cards and divide into three piles of 12 Events, 
shuffle one Propaganda card into each pile, 
and stack the piles. Set aside the remaining 
Event cards. 
•	 Commitment: 15 
•	 Resources: FLN 15, Government 20 
•	 Support + Commitment: 7+15= 22
•	 Opposition + Bases: 11+8 = 19
•	 Border Zone status: 3 
•	 France Track: box “E”
•	 Out of Play: Government: none; FLN: 5 
Guerrillas
•	 Available: Government: 2 Bases, 4 French 
Police; FLN: 7 Bases, 8 Guerrillas
•	 Resettled Sectors: 3 (Setif, Tlemcen, Bordj 
Bou Arreridj)
Barika: Oppose
	
	
Batna: – empty
Biskra: Govt Control
	
Oum el Bouaghi: – empty
Tebessa: Oppose
	
	
Negrine: Govt Control
	
Constantine: Govt Control, Support
	
Setif: FLN Control, Resettled (Pop 0)
	
Phillippeville: Govt Control
	
Govt – 4 French Troops, 1 Algerian 
Police, 1 Base
Souk Ahras: Govt Control, Oppose
	
Govt – 1 French Troop, 1 Algerian 
Police, 1 Base
	
	
	
Bordj Bou Arreridj: Govt Control, Resettled 
(Pop 0)
	
Bougie: FLN Control, Oppose
	
	
Algiers: Govt Control, Support
 Govt – 5 Troops (4 French, 1 Algerian), 1 
French Police
Medea: Govt Control
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Troop, 1 Base
Orleansville: Oppose
	
	
Oran: Govt Control, Support
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Troop, 2 Police (1 
French, 1 Algerian)
Mecheria: Govt Control
	
Tlemcen: Govt Control, Resettled (Pop 0)
	
	
	
Govt – 1 French Police, 1 Base
Mostaganem: Govt Control
	
Saida: – empty
Mascara: Govt Control
	
Tiaret: Govt Control
	
Ain Sefra: Govt Control
	
Sidi Aissa: – empty
Ain Oussera: Oppose
Morocco: 4 Guerrillas, 2 Bases
Tunisia: 5 Guerrillas, 2 Bases
Medium: 1957-
1962: Midgame 
Development
Deck: Give theCoup d’Etat, Recall de Gaulle 
and OAS Pivotal Event cards to the Govern­
ment and FLN player respectively (the Coup 
d’Etat card has not been played yet). Shuffle 
48 random Event cards and divide into four 
piles of 12 Events. Shuffle one Propaganda 
card into each pile, and stack the piles. Set 
aside the remaining Event cards. 
•	 Commitment: 20
•	 Resources: FLN 15, Government 24 
•	 Support + Commitment: 7+20 = 27
•	 Opposition + Bases: 9+10 = 19
•	 Border Zone status: 2 
•	 France Track: box “C” 
•	 Out of Play: Government: none; FLN: 2 
Guerrillas
•	 Available: Government: 3 Bases, 1 French 
Police; FLN: 5 Bases, 6 Guerrillas
•	 Resettled Sectors: 1 (Tlemcen)
Barika: FLN Control, Oppose
	
Batna: FLN Control
	
Biskra: Govt Control
	
Oum el Bouaghi: FLN Control
	
Tebessa: Govt Control
	
Negrine: Govt Control
	
Constantine: Govt Control, Support
	
Setif: 
	
	
Phillippeville: FLN Control, Oppose
	
	
Souk Ahras: Govt Control
	
Govt – 5 Troops (4 French, 1 Algerian), 

2 French Police, 1 Base
	
	
	
Bordj Bou Arreridj: – empty
Bougie: FLN Control, Oppose
	
	
Algiers: Govt Control, Support
	
Govt – 6 Troops (5 French, 1 Algerian), 
3 Police (2 French, 1 Algerian)
Medea: Govt Control
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Police, 1 Base
	
Orleansville: Oppose
	
	
Oran: Govt Control, Support
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Troop, 2 French Police
Mecheria: Govt Control
	
Tlemcen: Govt Control, Resettled (Pop 0)
	
	
Govt – 1 French Police, 1 Base
Mostaganem: – empty
Saida: FLN Control
	
Mascara: – empty
Tiaret: – empty
Ain Sefra: Govt Control
	
Sidi Aissa: FLN Control
	
Ain Oussera: – empty
Morocco: 2 Guerrillas, 1 Base
Tunisia: 4 Guerrillas, 2 Bases
Full: 1954-1962 : 
Algerie Francaise!
Deck: Give each player all three of their Piv­
otal Event cards. Shuffle all 60 Event cards 
and make five piles of 12 Events. Shuffle one 
Propaganda card into each pile and stack the 
piles. Note that the Government player may 
not Resettle Sectors until they have played 
the Mobilization Pivotal Event. 
•	 Commitment: 25 
•	 Resources: FLN 8, Government 16 
•	 Support + Commitment: 0+25 = 25 
•	 Opposition + Bases: 5+4 = 9
•	 Border Zone status: Morocco and Tunisia 
not independent yet 
•	 France Track: box “A”
•	 Out of Play: French: 6 Troops, 15 Police, 
3 Bases; FLN: none
•	 Available: Government: 3 Bases, 1 French 
Troop, 3 French Police, 5 Algerian Police; 
FLN: 11 Bases, 23 Guerrillas
Barika: – empty
Batna: FLN Control
	
Biskra: – empty
Oum el Bouaghi: – empty
Tebessa: – empty
Negrine: – empty
Constantine: Govt Control
	
Govt – 1 French Troop, 1 French Police
	
Setif: – empty
Phillippeville: FLN Control, Oppose
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Troop
	
Souk Ahras: – empty
	
Bordj Bou Arreridj: – empty
Bougie: – empty
Algiers: Govt Control
 Govt – 1 Algerian Troop, 2 Police (1 French, 
1 Algerian)
Medea: 
	
	
Orleansville: – empty
Oran: Govt Control
	
Govt – 1 Algerian Troop, 1 French Police
Mecheria: – empty
Tlemcen: FLN Control, Oppose
	
	
Govt – 1 French Troop
Mostaganem: FLN Control
	
Saida: – empty
Mascara: – empty
Tiaret: – empty
Ain Sefra: – empty
Sidi Aissa: – empty
Ain Oussera: – empty
Morocco, Tunisia: not independent yet
OPEN DEPLOYMENT 
OPTIONS
As an alternative to the standard deployments, 
set up markers (Support, Oppose and Pop 0) 
and place Out of Play and Available forces as 
specified for the scenario. Then set up player 
forces on the map, Government first and with­
in stacking limits, and finally place Control 
markers according to the final situation.
Short Scenario 1960-62
•	 FLN: 8 Bases (2 each in Morocco and 
Tunisia), 17 Guerrillas (at least 4 each in 
Morocco and Tunisia)
•	 Government: 4 Bases, 9 French and 3 
Algerian Troops, 17 French and 7 Algerian 
Medium Scenario 1957-62
•	 FLN: 10 Bases (at least 1 each in Morocco 
and Tunisia), 22 Guerrillas (at least 2 each 
in Morocco and Tunisia)
•	 Government: 3 Bases, 9 French and 3 
Algerian Troops, 20 French and 7 Algerian 
Full Scenario 1954-62
•	 FLN: 4 Bases, 7 Guerrillas
•	 Government: 2 French and 3 Algerian 
Troops, 3 French and 2 Algerian Police
GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com