Originally published in 1892. Updated rules, board design and variants by Daniel Danzer (2010) – Rulebook © 2010 Néstor Romeral Andrés 
Colorito 
 
Originally published in 1892. Updated rules, board design 
and variants by Daniel Danzer (2010) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Colorito was first published in London, 1892. To the new 
genre of boardgames with the final goal to cross the board with 
the pieces (established by Halma in 1883), the unknown author 
added two crucial elements: Numbered pieces and two colours 
per player. Colorito became popular enough to be one of 
Anastasias (youngest daughter of the last Czar) favourite 
leisure activities at about 1915. 
 
The original rules were researched at the British Library for 
this edition and now you can play this truly unique abstract 
again - with two added variants. Colorito has a light feeling, but 
enough depth to be a challenge for experienced gamers. 
 
COMPONENTS 
 
A “Colorito” set includes: 
 
A Colorito board (2 pads). 
 
 
 
10 red pieces numbered 1 to 10. 
10 yellow pieces numbered 11 to 20. 
10 dark blue pieces numbered 1 to 10. 
10 light blue pieces numbered 11 to 20. 
 
PREPARATION 
 
One player gets the dark blue 1 - 10 and the light blue 11 - 
20 pieces, the other one the red 1 - 10 and the yellow 11 - 20 
pieces. 
 
The board is placed between the players, so that each 
player has the arrows of his colours on his side. The pieces are 
placed on the players first two rows according to the numbers: 
Thus red pieces start on blue numbers, and so on. 
 
OBJECT OF THE GAME 
 
Getting your pieces on the opposite side on the board (an 
overall diagonal move through the centre) onto the spaces with 
the same number as the piece. Who gets this done in less 
moves, wins. Same number of moves is considered a tie. 
 
GAMEPLAY: 
 
Players agree who starts the game. Turns are taken 
alternately. There are no captures. 
 
On each turn, a player MUST move ONE of his pieces in 
one of the following ways: 
 
STEP: The piece steps onto an adjacent space of the 
same colour as the piece or white (numbered). This can be 
done orthogonally or diagonally in any direction. 
 
Note: Obviously, you cannot do a STEP solely on coloured 
spaces. 
 
JUMP: The piece jumps over one adjacent piece of your 
own or your opponent’s in a straight line, landing on a free 
space directly behind this piece. This can be repeated as often 
as possible, orthogonally or diagonally, as long as the last 
space landed upon is of the same colour as the piece or white 
(numbered). 
 
STEP - JUMP: A combination of first a step and afterwards 
a jump. 
 
Note: Here it is not mandatory to land on the according 
colour after the STEP, since the move has not yet ended. 
 
 
 
 
Beginning midgame situation, blue’s turn. Sample moves: 
Black: step 
Purple: Jump 
Green: Step-jump 
 
END OF THE GAME 
 
The game ends as soon as one player has got all his 
pieces on the target spaces with the same number and colour. 
If the starting player manages to do this first, the opponent has 
one more move to achieve a tie. The remaining moves needed 
by the loser to reach the objective of the game are his negative 
score. 
 
Special situation: If the only target spaces of one player not yet 
occupied by his correct pieces, are occupied by pieces of his 
opponent, he also is declared winner 
 
VARIANTS 
 
“Just Colours” (More easy and suitable for beginners to 
get into the game): Play the game according to the standard 
rules but totally ignore the numbers on the spaces or the 
pieces. Just get the pieces onto the row with the matching 
colour to win the game. 
 
“Strict game” (heavier): Even in a “STEP - JUMP”, pieces 
can do their STEP only, if they land on a space with their own 
colour or white - and start their JUMP from there.