40'
2-6
10+
Christophe Raimbault
Jordi Valbuena
http://www.coltexpress.ludonaute.fr

11th of July, 1899: 10 A.M. T e Union Paciﬁ c Express has 
left Folsom, New Mexico, with 47 passengers on board. After 
a few minutes, the sound of rapid footsteps is heard, coming 
from overhead; and then, gunshots. Heavily armed bandits are 
mercilessly robbing honest citizens of their wallets and jewellery! 
Will the bandits be able to keep a cool head and dodge bullets? 
Will they succeed in stealin' the Nice Valley Coal Company's 
weekly payroll, stored in strongboxes that are closely watched 
by Marshal Samuel Ford? Only one bandit will achieve his goal: 
becoming the richest outlaw of the gang.
SET-UP
The First Player is Player 1, the player on his left is 
Player 2, and so on.
The players with an odd number place their Bandit in 
the Caboose.
The players with an even number place their Bandit in 
the Car next to the Caboose.
CONTENTS
6 Train Cars
17 Round Cards:
10 Action cards
1 Locomotive
6 Bullet cards
Loot tokens of various value
10 Terrain elements
13 Neutral Bullet cards
1 Bandit pawn
18 Purses worth between 
$250 and $500
1 Marshal pawn
6 Jewels worth $500 each
Player Pieces for each player (x6) :
2 Strongboxes carrying 
$1000 each
1 Character card
In the center of the table, place the Locomotive 
and as many Cars as there are players in a row. Take 
the Cars of your choice and placed in the order of your 
choice. Add the Locomotive to the front of the Train.
Place in each Car the number and type of Loot 
tokens indicated on its ﬂ oor. The Purses are taken at 
random and placed face-down with their value hidden.
Place the Marshal pawn and a Strongbox inside 
the Locomotive. The remaining Loot tokens are put 
back into the box, except the second Strongbox, which 
is placed oﬀ the Train, near the Locomotive. It may 
come into play later.
Randomly draw 4 Round cards from those 7 which 
correspond to the number of players (either the Round 
cards marked 2-4 or those marked 5-6) and shuﬄ e 
them. Randomly select one of the three Train Station 
cards. Make a face-down deck with these 5 cards, 
making sure that the Train Station card is on the 
bottom. Put the remaining Round cards back in the box. 
Place the 13 Neutral Bullet cards next to 
the Locomotive.
Each player chooses a Character, takes the 
corresponding Character card and places it in front 
of him. He places the 6 Bullet cards of his colour to the 
left of his Character card, in the order of the number 
of Bullets.
Then he shuﬄ es the 10 Action cards of his colour and 
places them face-down at his right: these cards are 
his personal deck.
Each player also takes a $250 Purse from the stock 
and places it face-down on his Character card, keeping 
its value hidden.
DIT
IT
ITS
TS
TS
YE
YE
YER
Take the Bandit pawns corresponding to the played 
Characters and draw one of them randomly. The player 
corresponding to the drawn Character is the First 
Player for the First Round. This player takes the deck 
of the 5 Round cards and puts it in front of him.
Note - Before your ﬁ rst game, carefully assemble the Train Cars 
and the Locomotive using the enclosed instructions.
Example of a 4-player game :
The passengers in each Car 
have diﬀ erent Loot, ready for 
you to steal!
Throughout the game, the 
Marshal will stand in the way 
of the Bandits. It is up to you to 
be smart and draw him away 
from his Strongbox at just the 
right moment.
T ese are the injuries that either the Marshal or 
a special Event might give to the Bandits. T ese 
Bullet cards (the Neutral ones or those given to 
you by your opponents) are useless when you 
draw them. T ey just decrease your possible 
Actions, just like a wound would do.
In this way, you get a sequence 
of 5 episodes that tell the 
story of the train robbery. 
You will discover them as the 
game progresses.
First Player
Second Player
Third Player
Fourth Player
At the beginning of the game, your gun's cylinder is full. You will be trying to ﬁ re at your opponents in order to slow them down.
Each player has an identical set of 10 Action cards.
During the game, you will stack your Loot on your Character card. T e value of your Purses must remain hidden from your opponents, 
but you can look at your own Purses whenever you want.
Character card
Your 6 Bullet cards 
arranged in order
Your 10 Action cards
One $250 Purse
Number of Players
7 cards for 2-4 players;
7 cards for 5-6 players;
3 Train Station cards
The game rules for 3 to 6 players are described below. 
In a 2-player game, read the detailed adjustments on 
page 6.

OBJECT OF THE GAME
To win, you must become the richest Bandit in the 
Old West. To reach this goal, you will try to get more 
Loot than your opponents...without being hit by too 
many bullets! The best shooter will receive the title of 
Gunslinger, worth $1000.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
There are ﬁ ve Rounds in a game. Each Round has 
two phases:
Phase 1 : Schemin'! The players play their Action 
cards into a common deck in the center of the table.
Phase 2 : Stealin'! The Action cards played during 
Phase 1 are performed.
'
HAS
The Schemin'! phase ends when the number of turns 
indicated on the Round card has been completed.
Any unplayed cards remaining in a player's Hand are 
placed back on the top of his personal deck.
'
AS
The First Player takes the deck of Action cards that 
had been created during the Schemin'! phase and turns 
the deck over, without changing the order of the cards.
Example:
Doc is the First Player during the current Round. He 
plays a Move card from his Hand; then Belle, on his left, 
plays a Fire card on top of Doc's card. Tuco, on Belle's 
left, decides to draw cards instead of playing a card. 
He takes 3 cards from his deck and adds them to his 
Hand. Finally, Cheyenne plays a Punch card on top of 
Belle's card.
T en the second turn begins.
At the beginning of a Round, each player shuﬄ es 
their deck and draws six cards. These cards form that 
player's Hand.
This Round card shows the number of turns (the 
number of Card icons) there will be during this phase. 
It also shows how the turns will go (see The Rounds 
Cards on page 5).
On his turn, a player has to:
• either play an Action card face-up 
(unless otherwise speciﬁ ed) from his 
Hand to the common deck;
• or take 3 additional cards from his 
deck and add them to his Hand.
Once performed, the Action card is given back to the 
player to whom it belongs. That player puts it back on 
his personal deck.
See page 4 for a detailed Actions description.
The Bandits' Actions are performed, one by one, 
starting with the top card (i.e., in the order they have 
been played).
OU
Each player shuﬄ es all his cards (10 Action cards 
and any Bullet cards he has been hit with in previous 
Rounds). Then he places his deck to the right of his 
Character card.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends after ﬁ ve Rounds.
Each player then adds up the value of the Loot tokens 
they have on their own Character card.
The Gunslinger prize is awarded to the player(s) who 
shot the most bullets (i.e., who has the fewest Bullet 
cards of their colour left). The player(s) turns his 
Character card over to get the prize. It is worth $1000. 
If more than one player wins the title, each tied player 
gets $1000.
The richest player wins the game. In case of a tie, the 
winner is the tied player who has received the fewest 
Bullet cards from other players and Events during 
the game.
Starting with the First Player, each player plays their 
turn, followed by the next player in clockwise order.
The player on the First Player's left becomes the new 
First Player. He puts the remaining Round cards in 
front of him. A new Round now begins.
Then the First Player draws the top Round card and 
places it on the table so that everyone can see it.
Any Action programmed during the 
Schemin'! phase is now obligatory. During 
the Stealin'! phase, each player must use 
his action, if it is still possible.
The 
Round 
indicated shows that 
there will be 4 turns.
The 
Round 
indicated shows that 
there will be 5 turns.
l b
l b
e 4
e 5
rn
rns.
rn
4 t
4 tur
t
5 t
5 tu
tur

When you are inside the train, you can shoot a 
Bandit who is in the interior of an adjacent 
Car, either to the rear of your Car or ahead of 
it. Bandits who are more than one Car away 
cannot be shot.
THE ACTION CARDS
THE MARSHAL
Move your Bandit:
from one Car to the next adjacent Car, forwards 
or backwards, if he is inside the Train; or
A distance ranging from one to three Cars (your 
choice), forwards or backwards, if he is on the roof.
The Locomotive is considered to be a Car. You can be 
in it or on it.
If you have plotted this Action, your 
Bandit cannot stay where he is: you 
must move him.
Switch the position of your Bandit from
The interior to the roof of the Car 
on which he's standing ;
or move his from the roof of the 
Car he's in to its interior.
Choose one of your opponents to be your target and 
give him one of your Bullet cards. The targeted player 
places the Bullet card he has received on his deck.
You cannot target a Bandit who is on the same spot 
as you.
Take the Loot token of your choice from the Car where 
you are currently located and place it face-down on 
your Character card.
If your Bandit is on the roof of a Car, he cannot rob 
inside it, and vice versa.
If there is no Loot where your Bandit is, then 
the Robbery action has no eﬀ ect.
Choose a target among the Bandits who are on the same 
Car and same ﬂ oor as you are.
The targeted Bandit loses a Loot token if he has one: 
choose a Loot token from his Character card and place 
it on the ﬂ oor where your Bandit pawn is located. If 
you choose a Purse token, you are not allowed to look 
at its value.
Then, move the targeted Bandit to the same ﬂ oor of an 
adjacent Car (either forwards or backwards, 
your choice in most of the Cars; backwards if 
you are in the Engine and forwards if you are 
in the Caboose).
Move the Marshal inside the train a distance of one 
Car in the direction of your choice. (See " The 
Marshal ", to ﬁ nd out what happens if the 
Marshal meets a Bandit).
Caution! When a Bandit enters a Car where the Marshal 
is, or when the Marshal enters a Car where Bandits 
are, they must escape up to the roof of the Car (even 
if they have just come down from there). A Bandit can 
never stay inside the Car where the Marshal is located.
Additionally, each one of those Bandits immediately 
receives a Neutral Bullet card which must be placed 
on each player's personal deck. 
V
AN
CHANGE
FLOOR
RY
RE
IRE
SH
Ghost (White) can shoot Tuco (Red) or Cheyenne 
(Green), but not Doc (Blue). On the other hand, Tuco 
(Red) can shoot Ghost (White) or Doc (Blue), but not 
Cheyenne (Green), who is on the same spot as Tuco.
When you shoot a Bandit, you give him one of your Bullet cards. 
T is allows you to compete for the title of Gunslinger. More 
importantly, your Action will handicap your opponent for the 
rest of the game, since the Bullet cards are useless to the injured 
player. T ey are "dead cards" that will clog up his Hand.
T e Bandits can be inside the Train (1) or on the roof of a Car (2). 
T e Locomotive is also considered to be a Car. You can be in it 
or on it.
T us there are always two possible locations for a Bandit: in 
or on a Car. At the start of the game, however, no Bandit can 
be on a roof.
Running on the roof saves you time. Doors and passengers are 
not in your way.
When you are on the roof, however, you can shoot 
a Bandit who is in your Line of Sight and on the roof 
of any Car other than your own, regardless of the 
distance. A Bandit is in Line of Sight if there is no 
other Bandit between you and him. Two Bandits on the 
roof of the same Car are considered as being side by 
side, and not located one behind the other: you choose 
which one gets hit.
If there is no target to be shot, keep your Bullet card: 
the Fire action will have no eﬀ ect.
If you run out of Bullet cards during the game, your 
Fire actions will have no further eﬀ ect.
Running on the roof saves you time and enables you to evade 
the Marshal.
Punching is a good way to make your opponent lose his bigger 
Loot. Moreover, he is so confused that his Stealin' plan may be 
disrupted.
T e Marshal is protecting the passengers: he never goes up on 
the roof.

THE BANDITS
During your ﬁ rst turn of each Round, you 
can play your Action card face-down on 
the common deck. If you choose to draw 
three cards instead of playing an Action 
card during the ﬁ rst turn, you cannot use 
Ghost's special ability later in this Round.
At the beginning of each Round, draw 
seven cards instead of six.
You can shoot a Bandit who is on the 
same Car as you are, on the other level, 
through the roof of your Car.
When shooting a Bandit, make him move 
one Car in the direction of ﬁ re, bearing 
in mind that Bandits can never leave 
the train.
When punching a Bandit, you can take 
the Purse he has just lost. If he has lost 
a Jewel or a Strongbox (your choice), the 
Loot just falls on the ﬂ oor (as usual).
You cannot be the target of a Fire action 
or a Punch action if there is another 
Bandit who can be targeted, too.
HO
GH
OC
UC
J
AN
ANG
NN
THE EVENTS
The Bandits who are inside the Cars get 
a Neutral Bullet each.
Passengers' Rebellion
Place the second Strongbox inside the 
Car where the Marshal is currently.
Take It All!
All Bandits on roofs move one Car 
forward (towards the Locomotive). 
Braking
All the Bandits that are on roofs move 
to the roof of the Caboose.
Swivel Arm
The Marshal shoots the Bandits who 
are on the roof of his Car. Those Bandits 
get a Neutral Bullet card each. 
Then the Marshal is moved one Car 
towards the Caboose. If the Marshal is already in the 
Caboose, he does not move at all.
Angry Marshal
Pickpocketing
Each Bandit who is alone in his spot can 
take one Purse token from that spot, if 
there are any Purses there.
Marshal's Revenge
Each Bandit who is on the roof above 
the Marshal loses the least valuable 
Purse token he has on his Character 
card. If a Bandit has no Purse, he loses 
nothing (even if he has Jewels or Strongboxes).
Hostage-Taking of 
the Conductor
Each Bandit who is either in the 
Locomotive or on its roof receives 
$250 ransom.
THE ROUND CARDS
The Action cards must be played face-up during 
the current turn.
The Action cards must be played 
face-down during the current turn.
During the current 
turn, each player plays twice (taking 6 
cards or playing two cards in a row or 
taking 3 cards and playing a card).
The current turn is played 
counter-clockwise, starting with the First 
Player.
Some cards make Events happen. These Events always take place at the end of the Round, after Phase 2: Stealin'!
- - -
Ghost is one stealthy bandit.
Belle's beauty is her best weapon.
Cheyenne is an outstanding pickpocket.
Tuco's shots are not stopped by the roof.
Django's shots are so powerful that they knock 
the other bandits back.
Doc is the smartest Bandit of the party.
Tunnel -
Speeding-Up -
Switching -

EXPERT VARIANT
If you wish to have more control in the game, each 
player can have a discard deck on the right of your 
personal deck. The following changes would also 
be required:
• At the beginning of the Schemin'! Phase, discard 
any Bullet cards you have drawn. In this way, your 
Hand is lightened.
• At the end of the Schemin'! Phase, you are allowed 
to keep in your Hand the cards you are interested 
in holding for next Round. Discard all Bullet 
cards. Discard all Action cards that you are not 
interested in.
• During the Stealin'! phase, place the performed 
Action cards you get back from the First Player 
face-up on your discard deck. The Bullet cards you 
received that turn from your opponents, however, 
go on top of your draw deck, face-down.
• At the beginning of each Round, draw cards from 
your draw deck and ﬁ ll your Hand up to six cards.
• Each time your draw deck is depleted and you have 
to draw cards, shuﬄ e the discard deck to make a 
new draw deck. You can look through your discards 
at any time.
SPECIAL RULES FOR TWO PLAYERS
-
Make the train by using the Locomotive and the four 
Cars of your choice.
Each player chooses a team of two Characters. He 
takes the corresponding cards and pawns. For your 
ﬁ rst game, we advise you to use the following teams: 
Tuco and Cheyenne vs. Django and Doc.
Place one Bandit pawn from each team inside the two 
Cars at the rear of the train.
Place the two Character cards of your team in front of 
you and place the six Bullet cards at the left of each of 
them and a $250 Purse on each of them.
From among the Action cards of each Character, get 
rid of all the cards in duplicate as well as one Marshal 
card from the Character of your choice. You will have 
11 cards remaining in your Hand: 2 Fire (1 for each 
Character), 2 Punch (1 for each Character), 2 Move 
(1 for each Character), 2 Floor Change (1 for each 
Character), 2 Robbery (1 for each Character) and 1 
Marshal. Shuﬄ e all of them to make your draw deck. 
Each player then plays with the mixed Action cards 
of the two Bandits.
NS
The game with two players is played with the Expert 
Variant described earlier. The goal of the game is to 
have the richest team at the end of the game. However, 
no one wins the title of Gunslinger in the 2-player game.
Masculine has been used merely to simplify the text.
When a Bandit is shot, the Bullet card is placed on 
the top of the player's draw deck. It may very well 
happen that a Bandit will inadvertently shoot his own 
teammate! 
IMPORTANT NOTE
You can never leave the train. If a Django's Fire or 
an Event make you move beyond the Caboose or the 
Locomotive, you do not move.
If the Neutral Bullet cards' deck is depleted or if there 
are not enough to go around, the Bandits do not get 
Bullets when they meet the Marshal or when an Event 
at the end of a Round card causes Neutral Bullets to 
be ﬁ red. The Neutral Bullet deck is removed from the 
game then.
Translation: Andrew McGregor
Ludonaute
11 A rue des pivettes
13800 Istres France
contact@ludonaute.fr
www.ludonaute.fr
Distributed in North America by Asmodee Editions 
LLC, 20 Gateway Dr, Suite 400,
Plattsburgh, NY 12901 USA.
www.asmodee.com – support@asmodee.com
© 2014 Ludonaute, All Rights Reserved.
© 2014 COLT Express, All Rights Reserved.
Bullet 
cards
Character 
Draw
deck
Discard 
deck