Rulebook

OBJECT OF THE GAME
Comanauts is a cooperative adventure game for 2-4 players. In it, players take on the role of comanauts, explorers who enter the irradiated 
dreamscape of Dr. Martin Strobal’s subconscious, in an attempt to rouse him from his coma and save the world.
In each Comanauts game session, players will try to find and defeat the Prime Inner Demon (I.D.) Entity that is currently troubling Dr. Strobal. 
To find the Prime I.D., players enter comazones, stable, dreamlike locations within Dr. Strobal’s mind, and try to find the unconscious doctor’s 
inner child. Successful interactions with the inner child will provide clues to the Prime I.D.’s secret location. Pay close attention to these clues! The 
comanauts will leap from comazone to comazone until they can find the Prime I.D., but if they waste too much time in the wrong comazones, Dr. 
Strobal’s subconscious will turn against them and begin to wear them down!
Comanauts can be played as individual sessions or as a campaign game, meaning each game session tells only one part of a multipart narrative. 
Each game session focuses on just one of the I.D.s that is currently troubling Dr. Strobal. By playing multiple game sessions and defeating more 
I.D.s, players unlock more of the story, and can eventually win the campaign.
•	 1 Rulebook
•	 1 Adventure Book 
•	 1 Sideboard
•	 1 Dice Bag
•	 38 Dice
•	 60 Item Cards
•	 11 Totem Cards
•	 6 Environment Cards
•	 22 Avatar Cards
ADVENTURE BOOK
•	 32 Hostile Cards
•	 13 I.D. Entity Cards
•	 55 Clue Cards 
•	 11 Comazone Cards 
•	 10 Vital Signs Cards
•	 24 Status Cards
•	 4 Rules Reference Cards
•	 4 Player Sheets
•	 22 Avatar Standees
•	 1 Inner Child Standee
•	 1 Adult Martin Standee
•	 4 Magnacycle Standees
•	 30 Hostile Standees
•	 13 I.D. Entity Standees
•	 1 Situation Token
•	 4 Door Tokens
•	 4 Suspicious Tokens
•	 4 Objective Tokens
•	 1 Bookmark Token
•	 30 Clarity Tokens
•	 6 Insight Tokens
•	 5 Fire Tokens
•	 5 Search Tokens
•	 20 Life Force Tokens
•	 1 Campaign Sticker Sheet
•	 20 Standee Stands
COMPONENTS
Return all dice, except those stored on cards, to 
the dice bag. Place or remove suspicious tokens as 
appropriate. The bookkeeper passes the bookmark 
to the player on her left. Read the following:
“Comanauts, you are now entering a comazone built 
on Martin’s early childhood memories, a particularly 
difficult zone to stabilize. This is where we believe 
Martin began a lifelong habit of succumbing to fear. 
This is not particularly surprising if one takes into 
account his public comments about his alcoholic 
stepfather. If Martin is being held here, help him face 
his terror enlarged by radiation exposure.”
Intense nausea seizes you, and when you reopen 
your eyes, you find yourself standing in the backyard 
of a modest house. Endless prairie stretches out 
around you, broken only by fences and the 
occasional building or tree. An old barn sits in the 
distance, and eleven pieces of clean laundry flap 
nearby on a clothesline. You look up at the sky and 
see it is unbroken by clouds, and a feeling of dread 
settles upon you, tightening your chest, as if a malign 
force is gazing down upon you.
The old house suddenly feels like refuge, and you 
open its creaky screen door and step into a homey 
kitchen, the scent of freshly baked cookies filling 
your nostrils. Aside from the kitchen windows, and 
the flickering light of the television in the next room, 
the house sits dark and empty like the dead heart of 
an enormous beast.
You’ve never been here before, but somehow it is 
all familiar.
 GOAL: Find out where Martin has gone. 
Turn to the next page.
SIDEBOARD
Group Task Track
Inner Child Slot
Threat Track
Enemy Slots
The Morass
Discard Pool 
Insight Token Slot
Situation Token Slot
PLAYER SHEET
Default Status Slot
Avatar Slot
Clarity Storage Slot
Die Storage Slot
Equipment Slot
Inventory Slot

AVATAR CARD
MARCIA
THE NOSY KIDS
BALANCED
4 • 6 • 10 • 11
Team Player: Choose a die on the 
group task track. Change that die 
to a facing of your choice.
Type
Home Comazone
Die Bonus
Clarity Ability
Suspicious Comazones
Starting Items 
I.D. ENTITY CARD
1483501
THE BLOOD MAGE
GUILT
(1-4): FIRE BLAST
: 0 
The target becomes ON FIRE.
(5-6): SEARING BONDS
 
: 3 • 
: 5
After this attack, place the target on 
this space. It becomes TRAPPED.
Actions
Defense
Comazone
Identification Code
Campaign Sticker Space
HOSTILE CARD
 : MONEY
CITIZEN 1
(1-2): ALARMING SHRIEK
: 3 
After this hostile activates, 
do not discard its threat die.
(3-5): GRAPPLING ASSAULT
 
: 5
The target becomes TRAPPED.
(6): THROW OBJECT
: 4
Actions
Defense
Loot
ITEM CARD
RANGED WEAPON 2
PISTOL
 If you roll any matching die 
results when attacking with 
this weapon, discard it. 
(It is now out of ammo.)
INTIMIDATE • GUN
Type
Range
Equipment Slot
Combat Bonus
Effect
Keywords

OTHER CARDS
NEW METRO CITY
You must be occupying a 
 space to use this card. 
At the end of your turn, 
the party immediately 
travels to page 73.
POCKET WATCH
MARKED
EFFECT
When moving, enemies will 
move toward the closest 
MARKED avatar ignoring any 
other avatars. When targeting, 
they will always attempt to target 
the closest MARKED avatar 
within range. 
REMOVAL
Remove this status card when 
this avatar loses a 
 to an 
attack -OR- when the situation 
becomes “safe.”
STABLE
ENVIRONMENT
Door tokens have 2 sides, unlocked 
and locked. While in play, a door 
token blocks clear sight, attacks, and 
movement. To open an unlocked 
door, an avatar on an adjacent space 
must discard any attribute die, then 
remove the token. To open a locked 
door, consult the Adventure Book 
special rules for that page.
DOORS
LOCKED
UNLOCKED
Comazone Number
Comazone Info
I.D. Entity
Martin’s Age 
COMAZONE CARD
FEAR
CHILD
Martin’s hometown. He grew up an only 
child in an isolated and unstable home. The 
things he witnessed and endured shaped 
his life and made him vulnerable to fear.
When chosen, travel to page 5.
Totem Card
Status Card
Vital Signs Card
Environment Card
CLUE CARD
1 8 3 7 2 6 1
YOU HAVE A 
CURIOUS VISION
“That’s not normal, Marty,” Cory 
tells you, his ten year old face full 
of concern. “You shouldn’t have to 
crawl out the window when your 
stepdad is there. That’s just messed 
up.” But you shrug.
“It’s just easier than risking him 
seeing me,” you say, but secretly you 
agree with him. It’s dehumanizing, 
always crawling away in secret like a 
beaten dog.
Gain a totem card from 
the prepared totem deck.
I.D. Identification Code
Read Aloud Text
Insight 
Suspicious
Clarity
Search
Objective
Fire
Life Force
Bookmark
9.	
Door
10.	 Situation
TOKENS
SAFE

SAFE
First Time Players
If this is your first time playing Comanauts, or there are players in your 
group that haven’t played previously, start out your game by reading 
Page 3 of the Adventure Book.
To set up a game of Comanauts, follow these steps:
Give each player a player sheet and the default status card listed 
on that player sheet. Place that status card face down in the spot 
provided on the player sheet.
Put all of the dice in the dice bag.
Form the vital signs deck by doing the following:
•	 Shuffle the Flatline card with 2 Stable vital signs cards and set 
them face down next to the play area.
•	 Shuffle the rest of the vital signs cards and place them face 
down on top of those 3 cards.
Form separate piles of the item, hostile, I.D. Entity, avatar, totem 
and status cards in an easy to reach area. Note: These cards do 
not need to be shuffled.
Separate the different types of tokens into piles and place them 
in an easy to reach area.
Look through the I.D. Entity cards and remove 2 copies of the 
Fear I.D. Entity. Note: If playing as a campaign, also remove any 
I.D. Entities with stickers on them. Then shuffle the I.D. Entities 
and reveal 5. Return the rest of the I.D. Entities to the box.
Collect the comazone cards for each of the revealed I.D. Entities. 
Randomly choose one to be the starting comazone. Turn to the 
page in the Adventure Book listed on that card. 
Place all of the collected comazone cards in a face up row alongside 
the Adventure Book. This row of cards is called: The Nexus. Return 
the rest of the comazone cards to the box.
9.	
Collect the totem cards that correspond to each comazone in the 
Nexus and form a totem deck. Return the rest of the totem cards 
to the box.
10.	 Set aside the I.D. Entity associated with the starting comazone. 
Shuffle the rest of the previously revealed I.D. Entities and draw 
1. DO NOT LOOK AT IT! This will be the Prime I.D. Entity for this 
adventure. Locate the 7 digit clue identification code on the 
back of that I.D. Entity card, collect and shuffle the 5 clue cards 
that match that code, and place them face down on top of the 
Prime I.D. Entity. 
11.	 Place all remaining I.D. Entities, including the “starting” one, in 
a separate facedown I.D. stack.
12.	 Deal 2 random avatar cards face down onto the avatar slot of 
each player sheet. DO NOT LOOK AT THEM! Each player looks 
through the remaining avatar cards, chooses a starting avatar, 
places that avatar on top of the face down ones on her player 
sheet and places 3 
 tokens on it. (Add additional tokens if your 
starting avatar has a 
 bonus.) After all players have chosen a 
starting avatar, return the remaining avatar cards to the box.
13.	 Each player collects her starting avatar standee and any starting 
items listed on her starting avatar card and equips them. If the 
starting comazone is listed as a suspicious comazone on her 
starting avatar card, place a suspicious token on the avatar card.
14.	 Choose a player to be the first bookkeeper. Give that player the 
bookmark token. The bookkeeper takes the first turn and play 
proceeds clockwise around the table.
15.	 Place the sideboard next to the Adventure Book and slot the 
situation token into its slot “safe” side up.
16.	 Read the introduction section of the starting comazone in the 
Adventure Book.
DURON INDUSTRIES
DISTRUST
MID 40’S
Martin discovers Lesster is working on a 
device similar to the Mobius device. Martin 
is determined to beat Lesster to market, 
but similarities in their work make Martin 
paranoid that his work has been stolen.
When chosen, travel to page 81.
GUILT
TEEN
Martin’s lack of social skills and empathy 
sabotages his high school friends group. He’s 
his own worst enemy. This plays in Martin’s 
mind over and over, damaging his self-worth.
When chosen, travel to page 31.
HATESPIRE
GRIEF
30’S
Martin struggles with loss on two fronts, 
and no amount of cowboy bravado can 
mask the lack of closure at its heart.
When chosen, travel to page 49.
DUSTY GULCH
SELFISHNESS
LATE 20’S
Martin’s obsession with his life’s work 
causes him to neglect those closest to him, 
especially Miranda. The more driven he 
becomes, the more distance he creates.
When chosen, travel to page 65.
STAR’S EDGE
FEAR
CHILD
Martin’s hometown. He grew up an only 
child in an isolated and unstable home. The 
things he witnessed and endured shaped 
his life and made him vulnerable to fear.
When chosen, travel to page 5.
Return all dice, except those stored on cards, to 
the dice bag. Place or remove suspicious tokens as 
appropriate. The bookkeeper passes the bookmark 
to the player on her left. Read the following:
“Comanauts, you are now entering a comazone built 
on Martin’s early childhood memories, a particularly 
difficult zone to stabilize. This is where we believe 
Martin began a lifelong habit of succumbing to fear. 
This is not particularly surprising if one takes into 
account his public comments about his alcoholic 
stepfather. If Martin is being held here, help him face 
his terror enlarged by radiation exposure.”
Intense nausea seizes you, and when you reopen 
your eyes, you find yourself standing in the backyard 
of a modest house. Endless prairie stretches out 
around you, broken only by fences and the 
occasional building or tree. An old barn sits in the 
distance, and eleven pieces of clean laundry flap 
nearby on a clothesline. You look up at the sky and 
see it is unbroken by clouds, and a feeling of dread 
settles upon you, tightening your chest, as if a malign 
force is gazing down upon you.
The old house suddenly feels like refuge, and you 
open its creaky screen door and step into a homey 
kitchen, the scent of freshly baked cookies filling 
your nostrils. Aside from the kitchen windows, and 
the flickering light of the television in the next room, 
the house sits dark and empty like the dead heart of 
an enormous beast.
You’ve never been here before, but somehow it is 
all familiar.
 GOAL: Find out where Martin has gone. 
Turn to the next page.
1 4 8 3 5 0 1
1340721
+2
DURON INDUSTRIES
Resourceful: Automatically 
pass any skill test with Ling 
(no dice required).
1 • 5 • 6 • 7 • 9 • 11
LING
SWORD
STEALTHY
MELEE WEAPON
SWORD
“You can’t expect to wield 
supreme executive power 
just ‘cause some watery 
tart threw a sword at you!”
SILENT • CUT
MARCIA
THE NOSY KIDS
BALANCED
4 • 6 • 10 • 11
Team Player: Choose a die on the 
group task track. Change that die 
to a facing of your choice.
ACCESSORY
Once per roll, this avatar 
can re-roll any one or 
more purple dice without 
spending .
(none)
STAR’S EDGE
SCUTTLEBOT
Precise: Use this ability before 
rolling attribute dice for Klink. 
If no purple dice are rolled, 
add +6 to the total.
1 • 4 • 6 • 7 • 9 • 11
TECH
KLINK
CONSUMABLE
SCUTTLEBOT
During your Perform Actions 
step you may choose a door 
token or hostile in play. 
Discard this card, and remove 
that door token or hostile 
from play. You cannot loot 
the defeated hostile.
TECH • HACK
+2
CPT. CONTINUUM
OMEGA LEAGUE
TECH
1 • 5 • 6 • 7 • 11
Singularity Beam: Choose a 
hostile within 2 spaces of Captain 
Continuum. Defeat that hostile, 
but do not loot it.
(none)
GAME SETUP

PAGE SETUP
Each page of the Adventure Book will give players some instructions 
on how to set it up. Below are some general instructions on how to 
read a game map and how to generate an encounter.
1.	 Avatar Start Space: Avatar standees come into play anywhere 
on this space.
2.	 Enemy Start Space: When encountering hostiles or I.D. entities, 
their standees come into play anywhere on this space.
3.	 Search Spot: See the Search Spot section below for details.
4.	 Point of Interest: See the Point of Interest section below for 
details.
5.	 Colored Lines: To move across a solid colored line, a player must 
use a die matching the color of the line to move her avatar.
6.	 Insight Spot: See the Insight Spot section below for details.
7.	 Rabbit Hole: When the translucent blue inner child die is drawn 
from the dice bag, the inner child standee is placed on this 
symbol. When a player’s avatar moves onto a space with the 
inner child, go to the page’s 
 entry.
8.	 Objective: See the Objective section below for details.
Search Spot 
Spaces containing a 
 symbol will have 1 or more 
 tokens placed in 
them as instructed by the page’s setup section. When a player’s avatar 
is in a space with a 
 token, she may search (see the Search section 
on page 8) with that avatar to gain any 1 specific item listed on the 
matching 
 entry. Upon successfully searching, discard 1 
 token 
from the space.
Point of Interest 
Insight Spot 
 and Objective 
The Adventure Book will instruct players when to put a 
 token on an 
insight spot or a 
 token on an objective. 
 symbols are points of 
interest that can be explored, 
 tokens offer opportunities to interact 
with the world, and 
 tokens represent objectives to achieve. On a 
player’s turn, when her avatar is on an 
 space or a space with a 
 
or 
 token, pause that player’s turn and read the page’s matching 
 or 
 entry. Then, unless directed otherwise, resume play. 
Most 
 symbols can only be explored once. 
 symbols that 
include a 
 symbol can be explored multiple times.
Leaving a Page
If the Adventure Book directs you to leave a page or turn to a new 
page, unless stated otherwise, finish the current player’s turn 
before leaving, including Check Threat. When leaving a page, 
remove any remaining tokens and enemy standees on that page 
from play and move all avatar standees (including those in the 
Morass) to their cards. 
Generating an Encounter
When players encounter enemies, collect the hostile and/or I.D. 
Entity cards indicated and their matching standees. Place the 
collected standees on the 
 space. Shuffle the collected cards and 
deal them face up to the enemy slots along the sideboard. If there 
are multiple 
 spaces, divide the enemies up among those spaces as 
evenly as possible. If there are already cards in the slots, add the new 
cards to any empty slots. Flip the situation token to “hostile.”
Encountering an I.D. Entity
When the Adventure Book directs players to encounter an I.D. Entity 
it will sometimes provide a 7-digit I.D. identification code. Look for 
the correct I.D. Entity card to put into play by matching this code to 
one of the cards in the I.D. Stack. If no match is found, the players will 
encounter the Prime I.D. Entity! Take the Prime I.D. Entity (under the 
clue cards) and put it into play.
Encountering the Prime I.D. Entity
When adding the Prime I.D. Entity to play, place a number of 
 
tokens on its card equal to the number of players. When the Prime 
I.D. would be defeated, instead remove 1 
 token from its card. 
When it has no 
 on its card, it is then defeated and removed from 
play. Note: Do not place 
 tokens on an I.D. that isn’t the Prime I.D. 
If the players defeat the Prime I.D. Entity, they win the game.
PLAYER TURN
On a player’s turn, she does the following steps in order:
1.	 Draw Dice
2.	 Gain Clarity
3.	 Place Threat
4.	 Place Inner Child
5.	 Perform Actions
•	 Focus 
•	 Move
•	 Reserve
•	 Encourage
•	 Equip/Trade
•	 Skill Test
•	 Group Task
•	 Attack (red or green)
•	 Search (yellow)
6.	 Discard Dice
7.	 Check Threat

1. Draw Dice
Draw 5 dice out of the dice bag and place them in front of you. If 
there are fewer than 5 dice in the bag, draw the remaining dice from 
the bag, move all of the dice in the discard pool back to the bag, and 
then complete your draw.
2. Gain Clarity
Roll your white (clarity) dice to gain . Each die may be 
rolled separately, or multiple may be rolled together as 
1 roll (to achieve a higher roll result). After each roll, if 
the roll result was equal to or higher than your current 
number of tokens, gain 1 token and then discard 
that die (or dice), by moving it to the discard pool. There is no limit to 
the number of tokens a player can have. (See the Clarity section on 
page 10.)
3. Place Threat
 
Place all of your black dice with white pips (common 
threat dice) on the threat track, starting at the top. 
If your avatar has a suspicious token on its card, also place 
any black dice with red pips (suspicious threat dice) on the 
threat track in the same way. If your avatar does not have 
a suspicious token on its card, return the suspicious threat 
dice to the bag.
If the situation is “hostile” and there are more threat dice on the 
threat track than enemies in play, return a previously defeated hostile 
from that page to the map on any 
 symbol, and add its card to 
any empty slot. A hostile that was removed from play without being 
defeated will not return during this step.
Note: The term “threat die” refers to any black die, either common 
or suspicious.
4. Place Inner Child
There is 1 transparent blue die in the bag. If this die 
was drawn, roll it and place it on the inner child slot on 
the sideboard and then reveal a vital signs card. If the 
current map page has a 
 symbol on it, place the inner 
child standee on that space.
5. Perform Actions
All of the remaining colored (attribute) dice in front of you may be 
utilized to perform actions. To perform an action, you must spend 
a die of the appropriate color. To spend a die: Roll that die, resolve 
its effect, then discard it. Just as with clarity dice, each die may be 
rolled separately, or multiple of the same color (or purple) may be 
rolled together as 1 roll. On your turn, you may perform as many 
actions as you like, as many times as you like, so long as you still have 
the appropriate dice available to spend. The actions that can be 
performed with each die type are as follows.
Any Color Attribute Dice
•	 Focus
•	 Move across dotted lines or move across solid lines matching the 
color of the die being rolled.
•	 Reserve (a die)
•	 Encourage (a player)
•	 Equip/Trade
•	 Perform a skill test of the matching color
•	 Contribute to a group task of the matching color
Red Attribute Dice
Melee attack, strength-based tasks
Green Attribute Dice
Ranged attack, agility-based tasks 
Yellow Attribute Dice
Search, smarts-based tasks
Blue Attribute Dice
Resistance-based tasks
Purple Attribute Dice 
A purple die can be spent or discarded in place of any 
other attribute die, but it is always purple.
Focus
Spend 2 attribute dice of any color to take an attribute die of your 
choice from the discard pool.
Move
Spend any color attribute die to move your avatar across a dotted line 
to any adjacent space OR to move within its current space. Place your 
avatar anywhere within the destination space.
•	 An avatar can only be moved across a solid colored line if you use 
that color of die or a purple die to move.
•	 When moving out of a space containing an enemy, dotted white 
lines count as solid green lines.
•	 Although an avatar can be placed anywhere within a space, 
it cannot be moved again within that space unless you spend 
another die.
Note: Solid white lines cannot be crossed.
Reserve
Instead of spending a die, you may reserve it. A reserved die is stored 
on your player sheet. There is no need to roll a die you are reserving. 
A reserved die can be used to defend against damage or can be 
used on one of your future turns. You cannot reserve a die if there is 
already one on your player sheet.
Encourage
To encourage a player, do one of the following:
•	 Store 1 of your dice on that player’s sheet, just as you would with 
your own sheet when reserving a die. If that player already has a 
die stored, discard the previously stored die.
•	 Discard any colored attribute die and give that player 1 of your .
Equip/Trade
Spend any colored attribute die to move any number of items 
between your inventory and your equipment slots. You can also 
give items to and receive items from any one player whose avatar is 
in the same space as yours. An item’s combat bonus and effect are 
only active when it is equipped. (See the Equipment Slots section on 
page 8.)

Skill Test
Sometimes there is a skill test available to perform. Skill tests have a 
color and a target difficulty number.
To perform a skill test you must spend any number of the appropriate 
color of dice (or purple). If your roll result meets or exceeds that target 
number, resolve the success effect of that skill test. Otherwise resolve 
the fail effect. You automatically fail a skill test if you are required to 
make one but do not have the appropriate dice. Unless otherwise 
directed, a skill test can only be performed once.
There are 3 places that players can look to see if there are skill tests 
available:
•	 Adventure Book Special Rules: Sometimes the Adventure Book 
will instruct players to make a skill test.
•	 Status Cards: Many status cards have a skill test that must be 
passed to remove them.
•	 Environment Cards: Some environment cards require players to 
make a skill test to interact with the environment.
Group Task
Sometimes there is a group task available to perform. Group tasks are 
similar to skill tests, except multiple players can contribute on their turns 
by rolling the appropriate colored dice and placing them on the group 
task track. When the total value of dice on the group task track equals 
or exceeds the task’s target difficulty number, resolve the task’s success 
effect. Unlike skill tests, group tasks cannot fail. Players can contribute 
to group tasks regardless of where their avatar is on the map, unless 
directed otherwise by the Adventure Book. Note: Die bonuses are 
never applied to dice placed on the group task track.
Melee Attack
To perform a melee attack, choose a target enemy in the same space 
as the attacking avatar. Roll any number of red dice. If the roll result 
meets or exceeds the target enemy’s defense value, that enemy 
is defeated. When an enemy is defeated, remove it from play by 
removing its standee from the map and discarding its card. Set both 
to the side of the page as hostiles (though not I.D.s) may return during 
the Place Threat step.
The player that defeated it can loot it by looking through the item 
deck and gaining the item listed on the loot section of the enemy’s 
card. When gaining an item, you can immediately equip it for free, 
place it in your inventory, or give it to another player whose avatar is 
on the same space (and must equip it or place it in her inventory).
If, at any time, there are no more cards on the threat track, turn 
the situation token to “safe.”
Ranged Attack
A ranged attack works just like a melee attack except a ranged attack 
uses green dice, and the attack may also target enemies that are on 
adjacent spaces . An avatar equipped with a ranged weapon can 
target an enemy even farther away up to a number of spaces equal 
to the range listed on the weapon’s card. The target must be within 
clear sight of the attacker to be considered in range.
Clear Sight
When determining if an attacker has clear sight to a target, draw 
an imaginary line from any portion of the attacker’s base to any 
portion of the defender’s base using their current placement. If that 
line would cross any solid white lines, there is no clear sight and the 
ranged attack cannot be made.
Attacking the Prime I.D. Entity
When the Prime I.D. Entity would be defeated by an attack, instead 
remove 1 
 from its card. When it has no 
 on its card, it is then 
defeated and removed from play.
Search
A player whose avatar is on a space with 1 or more 
 tokens can 
perform a search action by rolling 1 or more yellow dice. On a result 
of 4 or higher the search is successful. Discard 1 
 token, look 
through the item deck and take any 1 item listed in the 
 entry of 
the current page of the Adventure Book. When gaining an item, you 
can immediately equip it for free, place it in your inventory, or give it 
to another player whose avatar is on the same space (and must equip 
it or place it in her inventory). 
Equipment Slots
Each player has 5 equipment slots: Head, Body, 
Hand, Hand/Accessory and Accessory. A player 
can only equip items if she has slots available. Any 
item that cannot be equipped must be carried in 
that player’s inventory or discarded. A player can 
carry two unequipped items in her inventory.
Example: Ransom is carrying a revolver (1 hand) in 
one hand slot, and a radio (accessory) in the hand/
accessory slot. Later, he finds a rifle (2 hands). If he 
wants to equip the rifle, he must move both the 
revolver and the radio to his inventory. Note: Since 
the radio is an accessory, he could move it to his 
accessory slot if it’s available, and it would still be 
considered equipped.
Bonuses and Using Purple Dice
Various cards and effects can give bonuses to a player’s die rolls. If 
a bonus specifies a color, it applies to each die of that color that is 
rolled, e.g. avatar die bonuses. If a bonus specifies melee attack 
ranged attack 
 or defense 
, it applies only to those types of rolls, 
e.g. weapon combat bonuses. If there is an effect that changes or 
multiplies a die’s result, apply that before any die bonuses.
Bonuses are never applied to dice placed on the group task track.
Purple dice may be used in place of any other attribute die. However, 
purple dice do not benefit from any bonuses except for those 
granted specifically to purple dice. 
6. Discard Dice
Discard all of your remaining dice.
7. Check Threat
If the situation (token) is “hostile”… and the number of dice on the 
threat track equals or exceeds the number of enemies in play, the 
enemies take a turn (see the Enemy Turn section on page 9). If the 
situation is “safe”... and there are 4 or more dice on the threat track, 
resolve the list below in order.
Resolve the 
 effect on the current page of the Adventure Book.
If the 
 effect results in enemies coming into play, flip the situation 
token to “hostile” and immediately take an enemy turn. 
Discard all dice from the threat track.
Refresh the dice bag. (Return all of the dice in the discard pool to 
the dice bag.)
After the Check Threat step and a possible enemy turn, continue with 
the next player’s turn (the player to the left of the current player).
2 Hands
Body
Head
Accessory

ENEMY TURN
To resolve an enemy turn, do the following steps in order:
Enemy Activation
•	 Roll
•	 Move
•	 Target
•	 Attack
Discard Threat and Refresh Dice
1. Enemy Activation
Starting with the enemy in the top enemy slot of the sideboard and 
continuing downward, activate each enemy 1 at a time until all 
enemies in play have been activated once. To activate an enemy do 
the following in order:
Roll
Take a die off the threat track and roll it. Match the number result to an 
action on the enemy’s card. That action will determine the enemy’s 
speed, range and strength for the activation as well as any special rules 
that apply during the action.
Move 
Move the enemy by following these steps: 
If the enemy is sharing a space with an avatar, do not move it.
Otherwise, move the enemy toward the nearest avatar (the 
avatar that would require the least amount of movement to 
reach) until it enters that avatar’s space, or until it has moved 
a number of spaces equal to its speed, whichever comes first. 
(If multiple avatars are equally close, the current bookkeeper 
decides which of those avatars the enemy will move toward.) 
Enemies can freely move across solid colored lines (but not solid 
white lines).
Target 
Determine which avatar the enemy will target for an attack by 
following these steps:
If there are no avatars within the enemy’s range and clear sight, 
it will not attack.
Otherwise it will target the closest avatar (measured by number 
of spaces away) within range. (If multiple avatars are equally 
close, the current bookkeeper decides which of those avatars 
the enemy will target.)
Note: Some attacks will specify a target within range. A target is in 
range if it is within that attack’s listed range and clear sight.
Attack 
The enemy now attacks its target. To resolve that attack, follow 
these steps.
If the target avatar’s player has no die stored or chooses not to 
defend, remove 1 
 from the target avatar.
If the target avatar’s player has a die stored, that player may 
choose to defend against the attack by rolling the stored die.
•	 If the roll is less than the strength of the attack, discard the die 
and remove 1 
 from the target avatar. 
•	 If the roll is equal to or higher than the strength of the attack, 
then the attack has been blocked. Return that die to the 
player’s sheet.
If the avatar lost its last 
, it ceases to exist in this comazone. 
(See The Morass section on this page.)
After activating an enemy, discard the threat die used to determine its 
action and activate the next enemy.
Note: Attacks from other sources, e.g. the Adventure Book, are 
resolved in the same way, except a threat die is not discarded. 
2. Discard Threat and Refresh Dice
Once all enemies have been activated once, discard any threat dice 
remaining on the threat track, return all dice in the discard pool to 
the dice bag and continue to the next player’s turn.
THE MORASS
When an avatar loses all of its 
, it ceases to exist within that 
comazone. Do the following in order:
Reveal a vital signs card.
Remove that avatar from play (i.e. the map). 
Discard its avatar card, all unused dice, any starting items listed 
on that card and any active status effects or suspicious tokens on 
that avatar. Keep your .
Reveal the next avatar card on that player’s mat, and add its 
standee to the Morass section of the sideboard. 
Add 3 
 tokens to the new avatar’s card. (Add additional tokens 
if the avatar has a 
 bonus.)
Retrieve any starting items listed on that avatar’s card from the item 
deck, if possible, and equip those items. (If equipping an item to 
a slot that is already filled, the previously equipped item must be 
moved to inventory. Discard item cards in excess of the two card 
inventory limit.)
If any player’s third avatar is sent to the Morass or if all avatars 
are in the Morass at the same time, the players lose.
At the beginning of a player’s turn, if her avatar is in the Morass, 
it returns to play. Place the avatar on any space on the map that 
has an avatar already on it. If the current comazone is listed as a 
suspicious comazone on the avatar card, place a suspicious token 
on the avatar card.
THE NEXUS
Sometimes the Adventure Book will send players to the Nexus. The 
Nexus is the row of comazone cards that was set out next to the 
Adventure Book during setup.
When players are sent to the Nexus, each player places her avatar 
on its card then reviews the comazones in the Nexus. Choose one 
comazone to visit next and turn to the page in the Adventure Book 
indicated on that comazone card. Place or remove suspicious tokens 
as appropriate, based on the avatar cards’ suspicious comazones.
When choosing a comazone, remember that your goal is to locate 
the Prime I.D. by playing through to the end of its home comazone. 
There are 3 ways to narrow down your search for the correct 
comazone/Prime I.D. Entity:
•	 Hints from the story text of the clue cards you’ve revealed
•	 The correct comazone is never the comazone you started in
•	 Any I.D. Entity you’ve already encountered during this play is not 
the Prime I.D. Entity.

STATUS ⁄ SUSPICIOUS
Avatars can be affected by a variety of conditions such as fearful, 
silent or distraught. When an avatar “becomes” something it means 
to place the corresponding status card near that avatar’s card, e.g. 
when an avatar becomes trapped, place a trapped status card near 
that avatar’s card. The status card’s effect immediately applies to the 
affected avatar. An avatar cannot have two of the same status card at 
the same time.
To remove a status card, follow the instructions on the card under 
“removal.” If using a skill test to remove a status card, the skill test 
can be performed by the affected avatar or any other avatar in its 
space. There is no penalty for failing this test and it may be attempted 
multiple times.
Each player sheet also has a default status card. Turn this card face up 
when instructed to activate it. When removing the default status card, 
turn it face down but keep it on your player sheet.
Suspicious avatars, i.e. avatars that don’t seem to belong in a 
comazone, are marked by a suspicious token. Suspicious tokens 
cannot be removed by effects that remove status cards. Do not place 
a second suspicious token on an avatar card.
VITAL SIGNS
 
Reveal a card from the vital signs deck each time:
 An avatar is sent to the Morass
 A player draws the inner child die
 The Adventure Book directs you to
Stable vital signs cards have no effect. Critical vital signs cards may 
have an effect if there is a 
 entry on the current Adventure Book 
page. If a second (or more) Critical vital signs card is revealed on 
any page, it has no effect. If the Flatline card is revealed, Martin has 
slipped beyond saving and the players lose the game.
CLARITY 
Each avatar has a clarity ability listed on its card. To use this ability, a 
player must spend the number of 
 tokens listed on the card (usually 
3). The ability’s text will describe the timing and effects on the game. 
If timing is not specified, the ability must be used during that avatar’s 
Perform Actions step.
Re-rolling
 can also be used to re-roll a die result. When a player rolls an 
attribute die she can spend 1 
 token to re-roll that die. A die can be 
re-rolled as many times as the player is willing to spend her 
 tokens.
INSIGHT
 
Players gather 
 tokens by exploring the comazones and interacting 
with the environments. Each time the Adventure Book instructs you 
to gain a 
 token, place it in the insight token slot on the sideboard. 
Each time the players have collectively earned 3 
 tokens, discard 
them and reveal a clue card.
CLUE CARDS
When the players reveal a clue card, either from collecting the 
required 
 tokens, or when the Adventure Book instructs them 
to, the current player draws the top clue card and reads it out loud 
to the other players. Each clue hints at the emotions and memories 
associated with the Prime I.D. Entity that is holding Martin within his 
mind and preventing him from waking from his coma. The players 
should use this moment to discuss the clues and other evidence that 
can guide them to the correct comazone to defeat the Prime I.D. 
Entity and bring Martin closer to recovery.
TOTEMS
When players gain a clue card, they will also be given a choice of 
totem cards. Players can use totems to travel between comazones 
and should pick the totem they feel will grant them access to the 
comazone where Martin is being held. Like any other item card, 
totems must be equipped in order to be used. 
AMBIGUOUS EFFECTS
Sometimes players will be instructed to do something for which there 
are multiple valid choices, such as deciding which avatar an enemy 
will move toward. In all cases where there are multiple valid choices, 
the current bookkeeper chooses.
WINNING ⁄ LOSING
If the Flatline vital signs card is revealed, if any player’s third avatar is 
sent to the Morass or if all avatars are in the Morass at the same time, 
the players lose. The players win if they discover and defeat the Prime 
I.D. Entity.

CREDITS
Game Designer
Jerry Hawthorne
Illustrators
Jimmy Xia, Tregis
Writers
Jerry Hawthorne, Mr. Bistro
Producer
Colby Dauch
Graphic Designers
Dave Richards, Kendall Wilkerson
Art Director
Jerry Hawthorne, Isaac Vega
Editor
Jonathan Liu
Lead Playtester
Jeffrey Joyce
Playtesters
Jeffrey Berman, Christian Pratt, Gordon Helle, 
John Dony, Elan Pavlov, Richard Spangle, Jeremy Kincaid, 
Nathan Stephens, Kian Jones, Mark Pruett, Chad Hoverter
Psychology Consultants
Prof. Alan Gerding, Donald B. Weaver, Ph.D.

© 2018 Plaid Hat Games. Comanauts, Plaid Hat Games, and the 
Plaid Hat Games logo are trademarks of Plaid Hat Games. Plaid 
Hat Games is a division of Asmodee North America, Inc. 1995 
W County Rd B2, Roseville, MN 55113. 651-639-1905. Actual 
components may vary from those shown. Made in China.
WWW.PLAIDHATGAMES.COM