Introduction......................................2
Game Scale.......................................2
Contents............................................2
Glossary............................................2
Components.....................................3
1 The Fate Cards..................................3
2 The Maps...........................................4
3 The Units...........................................4
4 The Track Display..............................5
Core Rules........................................6
5 Sequence of Play..............................6
6 Game Time........................................6
7 Victory Conditions.............................6
8 Stacking.............................................7
9 Initiative..............................................8
10 Line of Sight (LOS)..........................8
11 Weapons..........................................9
12 Radios............................................10
13 Suppression...................................10
Orders (O14)..................................10
O15 Pass (discard).............................10
O16 Advance......................................10
O17 Artillery Denied...........................11
O18 Artillery Request.........................11
O19 Command Confusion..................12
O20 Fire..............................................12
O21 Move...........................................14
O22 Recover.......................................14
O23 Rout............................................14
Actions (A24).................................15
listed alphabetically A25–A41.............15
Events (E42)...................................18
listed alphabetically E43–E77.............18
Terrain (T78)..................................20
listed alphabetically T79–T99..............21
Fortifications (F100)......................23
listed alphabetically F101–F106..........23
Credits.............................................23
Index................................. back cover
Game Design by Chad Jensen
TABLE OF CONTENTS
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
0709
NOTE: Items in blue text indicate functional 
changes from the first edition of this rulebook.

Page 2
INTRODUCTION
Combat Commander is a series of card-
driven board games covering tactical 
infantry combat in World War II. In this 
first volume, one player assumes the role of 
the Axis (Germany) while another player 
commands the Allies (America or Russia). 
These two players will take turns playing one 
or more Fate cards from their hands in order 
to activate their units on the mapboard for 
various military functions. 
Players attempt to achieve victory by moving 
their combat Units across the game map to 
attack their opponent’s units and occupy as 
many Objectives as possible. The degree to 
which a player succeeds or fails is measured 
by a scenario’s specific objective chits, the 
destruction of enemy units, and the exiting of 
friendly units off the opponent’s board edge.
Each measure of game Time is divided into 
a variable number of player Turns. In each 
Turn, the sequence of play is fluid – with 
Orders being given by the active player and 
Actions being taken by both players – de-
pending upon the cards in their hands. 
Events, both good and bad, will occur at 
random intervals to add a bit of chaos and 
uncertainty to each player’s perfect plan.
GAME SCALE
Each hex of a Combat Commander map 
measures approximately 100 feet across (30 
meters or so). Each complete player Turn rep-
resents an arbitrary segment of game Time 
with each measure of game Time abstractly 
representing several minutes of real time. 
Each unit in the game is approximated as 
either a single Leader, a 5-man Team, or a 
10-man Squad. Radios and individual Weap-
ons (at least those larger than a BAR, rifle or 
pistol) are represented by their own counters.
CONTENTS
Combat Commander: Europe includes: 
six back-printed 17˝ x 22˝ game maps 
(twelve maps total)
352 large (⅝˝) die-cut counters
280 small (½˝) die-cut counters
220 cards
one 24-page Rulebook
one 24-page Playbook
one Track Display
four double-sided player aid sheets
Letters/Numbers found within brackets 
– such as [O16.4] – will indicate to the reader 
an important reference to another rule. 
Rules preceded by an “O” are for Orders; 
“A” Actions; “E” Events; “T” Terrain; and 
“F” Fortifications.
GLOSSARY
Action—The ability listed just below the 
photo on every Fate card (and above, in the 
case of the “Fire” Order/Action). Actions may 
be played during either player’s Turn. [A24]
Activate—A unit or player may normally only 
be “activated” for one Order per Turn.
Active—The player currently taking his Turn. 
Any unit or marker belonging to that player.
Adjacent—Two hexes sharing a common hex-
side are considered adjacent to one another. 
Units and markers in one of those hexes are 
adjacent to units and markers in the other.
Break/Broken—A unit, Weapon or Radio 
with its reverse side face-up is “broken”. A 
Weapon/Radio cannot be used while it is bro-
ken. A broken unit can perform most abilities, 
albeit at a reduced capacity. An unbroken 
piece that “breaks” becomes broken (flipped 
over); a broken piece that breaks again is 
eliminated. [3.2]
Command—One of five base stats found only 
on Leader units. Command is a measure of 
how well a Leader can control the friendly 
units around him. [3.3.1]
Cover—A number associated with each ter-
rain. A hex’s best Cover is added directly to 
the Morale of every unit occupying that hex. 
Multiple Covers are not cumulative. [T78.3]
Die Roll—The six-sided “dice” on the bottom 
right of every Fate card. Die rolls can never 
be performed directly from a player’s hand, 
only off the top of a player’s Fate Deck. [1.9]
Enemy—A unit, Weapon or Radio under 
your opponent’s control. A hex occupied by 
an enemy unit. An Objective hex [2.3] under 
your opponent’s control and not containing a 
friendly unit. Fortifications are never “enemy”.
Event—The random happenings listed just 
below the Action on every Fate card. Events 
can never be performed directly from a 
player’s hand, only off the top of a player’s 
Fate Deck due to an Event! trigger. [1.9.1.1]
FP / Firepower—One of five base stats. FP is 
a measure of how much damage a piece can 
inflict on enemy units. [3.1.1]
Friendly—A unit, Weapon or Radio under 
your control. A hex occupied by a friendly 
unit. An Objective hex [2.3] under your 
control and not containing an enemy unit. 
Fortifications are never “friendly”.
Hindrance—Terrain that affects attacks go-
ing through its hex – never into or out of 
it (except for Smoke). Hindrances are not 
cumulative. [10.3]
Inactive—The player not currently taking his 
Turn. Any unit or marker belonging to that 
player. If a game situation calls for or allows 
both players to do something simultaneously, 
the inactive player always goes first.
LOS—Line of Sight. Generally, a unit in hex 
A has a LOS to hex B if a string, drawn taut 
and touching both hex’s center dots, does 
not touch the graphical depiction of a terrain 
Obstacle in a hex between those hexes. [10]
Marker—Any counter (usually ½˝) without a 
soldier illustration. Some marker examples 
include Weapons, Wire, Control, Sudden 
Death, or the Spotting Round.
MG—Machine Gun.
Morale—One of five base stats.A measure of 
how much punishment a unit can take before 
being rendered “combat ineffective”. [3.1.4]
Movement—One of five base stats. Movement 
is a measure of how efficiently a unit can 
move across the battlefield. [3.1.3]
MP—Movement Point.
OB—Order of Battle. The forces allotted to 
each player in every scenario. Fortification 
OBs are located on the back of the playbook. 
Each nation has a player aid with its base OBs 
on one side and Support OBs on the other.
Obstacle—A type of terrain that blocks LOS 
through it; never into or out of it. [10.2]
Op(portunity) Fire—The ability to play a 
Fire Action in order to repeatedly fire at the 
opponent’s Moving units. [A33]
Order—The ability listed across the top of 
every Fate card. Orders may only be played 
during that player’s own Turn. [O14]
Ordnance—Any Weapon with a white bar 
highlighting its stats. Ordnance: must first 
hit its intended target before making a Fire 
Attack against it; cannot be part of a Fire 
Group; cannot participate in Op Fire; and 
cannot have its stats increased by a friendly 
Leader in the same hex. [O20.2]
Piece—A unit, Weapon, Radio or Fortification.
Posture—Attack(er), Defend(er) or Recon. 
Posture determines a player’s hand size 
[1.1] and can be paired in any combination 
(though Attack vs Defend is most common).
Random Hex—The letter/number combination 
on the bottom left of every Fate card used 
to randomly determine where Snipers and 
certain Events will occur. The number is also 
used to determine whether broken Weapons 
might be fixed or eliminated. [1.8]
Range—One of five base stats. A measure of 
how far a piece can effectively shoot-to-kill 
whilst in the heat of battle. [3.1.2]
SR—Spotting Round marker. [O18.2.1]
(die) Trigger—A game effect associated with 
(“triggered by”) certain die rolls. [1.9.1]
Turn—One player performing one or more Or-
ders or discarding zero or more Fate cards. [5]
Unit—Any large (⅝˝) counter with an illustra-
tion of one or more soldiers. This includes 
Squads, Teams and Leaders. [3]
VP—Victory Point. [7]
Weapon—Any small (½”) counter with a 
weapon illustration such as a machine gun or 
mortar. Unlike other markers, Weapons will 
also always have a FP and a Range. [11]

Page 3
IMPORTANT: In Combat Commander, 
the motto “a rule means exactly what it 
says” should be the order of the day. In 
other words, as quoted from another fine 
game, Totaler Krieg!: “Do not infer or 
imagine more to a rule than is stated in it. 
When in doubt, interpret strictly”.
Example A: The “Walking Wounded” Event 
[E76] states “Return one eliminated unit to 
play…”. It doesn’t say “ friendly eliminated 
unit”; so if your opponent had the only 
eliminated unit(s) when you drew this 
Event, you would have to choose one of his 
to return to the map.
Example B: The rule for the “Jammed!” 
die trigger [1.9.1.2] says to break all firing 
Weapons. That’s it. It doesn’t say that the 
fire attack is then cancelled, so it isn’t.
Having said that, however, these rules 
cannot possibly hope to cover the myriad 
situations that may arise during game 
play—so in those instances when an odd-
ball situation surfaces, a healthy dose of 
common sense coupled with an existing rule 
or two should suffice to see you through.
Throughout this book you will see numerous 
shaded boxes such as this one. These boxes 
are filled with clarifications, play hints, 
design notes, and other assorted wisdom in 
order to help ease you along.
To play your first game, you need only read 
the Components, Core Rules and Order 
sections that follow, as well as rule A33 
concerning Opportunity Fire. Then set up 
the Example of Play (in the Playbook) and 
follow it through to conclusion in order to 
get a feel for the basic flow of the game. The 
latter portion of this booklet – entries for 
Actions, Events, Terrain and Fortifica-
tions – can be quickly glossed over and 
then referred to in more detail as the need 
arises during game play.
COMPONENTS
1. The Fate Cards
“A thing appears random only through the 
incompleteness of our knowledge.”
—Baruch Spinoza
There are three sets of Fate cards included 
with this game: one set each for Germany 
(gray), America (green) and Russia (brown). 
A player’s 72-card Fate Deck is the heart and 
soul of the game. Once the game begins, no 
action may be taken on the map by either 
player – either via Order or Action – without 
a Fate card in hand allowing it. While a Fate 
card is in a player’s hand, only its Order or 
Action may be declared: everything else 
(from the Event down) is ignored.
IMPORTANT: The Initiative card [9] as 
well as the three cheat cards included in 
the game are not Fate cards and thus will 
never be considered as being part of a 
player’s hand.
Further, whenever a rule refers to a “card” 
without an identifier, it will always be in 
reference to a Fate card—never the Initia-
tive card or a cheat card (which will always 
be identified as such).
1.0 Golden Rule
Some card effects conflict with one or more 
rules within this booklet (for example, the 
Interrogation Event [E61] conflicting with rule 
1.2, below). When this occurs, the card effect 
always takes precedence.
1.1 Hand Size
Each player is allotted a certain Hand Size 
depending on his Posture: either Attack (6 
cards), Recon (5 cards) or Defend (4 cards). 
This determines both the number of cards 
that player will begin the game with as well 
as how many he will draw up to at the end of 
each of his own Turns.
1.2 Card Knowledge
Cards in a player’s hand are kept secret from 
his opponent. Cards in a player’s draw pile 
are kept face-down and secret from both 
players. Cards in a player’s discard pile are 
public knowledge and may be examined by 
either player at any time.
1.3 Revealing Cards
Whenever a player is instructed to “reveal” a 
card – during an Event trigger, for example 
[1.9.1.1] – the top card of that player’s Fate 
Deck is turned face up then placed on top of 
his discard pile for both players to see.
1.4 Reshuffle
During each Game Time Advance [6.1.2], one 
player will be instructed to shuffle the cards 
occupying both his discard and draw piles 
together in order to form a new draw pile.
1.5 Orders
“They are not so hot yet, but they are learning, 
and they’ll make a first-class army before 
long.”
—Josef Stalin
These are listed across the top of each Fate 
card. A player may only play a card for its 
Order during his own Turn, and may never 
announce more Orders in a Turn than his 
Order Capability [5.1]. If a card is played for 
its Order, it is immediately placed into that 
player’s discard pile—the Action on that card 
then could not be played until the next time it 
is drawn into the player’s hand.
1.6 Actions
“You win battles by knowing the enemy’s tim-
ing, and using a timing which the enemy does 
not expect.”
—Miyamoto Musashi
Actions are listed just below the photo on 
each Fate card or, in the case of (Opportu-
nity) Fire [A33], across the top of the card. A 
player may play a card for its Action at any 
time during either player’s Turn, so long as 
its prerequisite is met. If a card is played for 
its Action, it is immediately placed into that 
player’s discard pile—the Order on that card 
then could not be played until the next time it 
is drawn into the player’s hand.
1.7 Events
“Luck; that’s when preparation and opportu-
nity meet.”
—Pierre Elliott Trudeau
Events are listed below the Action on every 
Fate card. Events are never played from the 
hand, voluntarily or otherwise—only off 
the top of the draw pile, and only at random 
intervals due to certain die rolls [1.9.1.1].
1.8 Random Hexes
This is the light-green 
“hex” in the lower left of 
each Fate card. Snipers 
[1.9.1.3] and some Events 
will call for a Random 
Hex to be determined and, if so, the top card 
of that player’s Fate Deck is revealed and this 
“hex” is consulted. The letter/number com-
bination within the “hex” will correspond 
to one specific hex on the map, where the 
Sniper/Event will take place.
A Random Hex can also have an effect on 
any broken Weapons in play [11.4]. 
1.9 Die Rolls
This is the pair of 
six-sided dice in the 
lower right corner 
of every Fate card. 
“Real” dice are not 
used in Combat Commander: instead, when-
ever a “roll” is called for, that player reveals 
the top card of his draw pile and only the two 
card R-1
Make one Fire Attack with any number of your 
units/Weapons with boxed Firepower that are 
currently activated to Move.
Place Foxholes in a random hex.
RECOVER
ASSAULT FIRE
Shellholes
ORDER
ACTION
EVENT

Page 4
dice are consulted; everything else on the 
card is ignored. When such a roll is made, 
the two dice are added together to arrive at a 
sum total (exception: during a Targeting Roll, 
the dice are instead multiplied [O20.2.3]).
1.9.1 Die Triggers
Many die rolls are enclosed within a thick 
red box with the word Event!, Jammed!, 
Sniper! or Time! also inside it; these are 
called “triggers”. These four triggers im-
mediately and temporarily pause normal 
game play in order to perform a specific task. 
Normal game play resumes after the trigger 
has been dealt with in its entirety.
IMPORTANT—Any non-Time! trigger that oc-
curs via the last card of a player’s draw pile is 
resolved after the Time Marker Advancement 
[6.1.2].
IMPORTANT—Any roll made while resolving 
a trigger (such as a Sudden Death Roll during 
a “Time!” trigger; or a Melee Roll during a 
Melee at the end of an Infiltration Event) can-
not itself produce a die trigger.
In other words, any die roll made during 
a die trigger must ignore any Jammed!, 
Event!, Sniper! or Time! trigger associ-
ated with it.
IMPORTANT—Each of the four triggers ex-
plained below are always performed in their 
entirety before any results of the die roll that 
triggered them are implemented. In other 
words, the roll itself locks in a result but that 
result is not implemented until after the die 
trigger is resolved.
EXAMPLE: A broken unit with 6 Morale 
has a Rout roll made for it. The roll is “7-
Event.” That unit will have to Retreat 1 hex 
but not until after resolving the Event. Even 
if the Event were “Medic” and that very 
same unit was rallied, it must still perform 
its pending Retreat (albeit unbroken). 
1.9.1.1 Event! Trigger
“The reason the American Army does so 
well in wartime is that war is chaos, and the 
American Army practices it on a daily basis.”
—from a post-war debriefing of a German 
General
roll is surrounded by a red box with the word 
“Event!” inside it, normal game play pauses 
in order to execute that Event: The player 
rolling the Event! trigger reveals the top 
card of his draw pile and, ignoring every-
thing else, reads aloud and then executes the 
Event on that card [E43­­–E77].
Unless otherwise stated, any decisions re-
quired by the Event are made by the player 
reading it.
1.9.1.2 Jammed! Trigger
Whenever a player makes a Fire Attack Roll 
[O20.3.3] (only; no other roll will trigger a 
Jammed!, including Targeting [O20.2]) and 
that roll is surrounded by a red box with the 
word “Jammed!” inside it, all firing Weap-
ons become broken [11.4].
Note that Radios [12] and Mines [F103] are 
not Weapons.
1.9.1.3 Sniper! Trigger
“I got my helmet creased and set back on my 
butt before I realized I was being shot at.”
—Lt. Col. Robert R. Moore
roll is surrounded by a red box with the 
word “Sniper!” inside it, normal game play 
pauses in order to resolve that Sniper: The 
player rolling the Sniper! trigger reveals 
the top card of his draw pile and, ignoring 
everything else, reads aloud the Random Hex 
on that card. That player may then select one 
unit in or adjacent to that hex and break it.
In CC, a Sniper! result represents a lot 
more than just a patient man with a scoped 
rifle: this mechanism is also used to repre-
sent combat occurrences such as friendly 
fire, panic, shell shock, snake bite, despair, 
dehydration, fatigue, a stray shell, dirt-in-
the-eye, etc.
1.9.1.4 Time! Trigger
roll is surrounded by a red box with the word 
“Time!” inside, normal game play pauses in 
order to perform a Time Marker Advance-
ment [6.1.2].
2. The Maps
“I am a soldier; I fight where I am told, and I 
win where I fight.”
2.1 The Battlefield
Superimposed over each mapboard is a 
hexgrid which is used to regulate movement 
and combat at an abstracted scale of about 30 
meters per hex. Each hex contains: 
a specific type of terrain [T79–T99] which 
can affect movement as well as attacks 
into or through it;
a white center dot used for determining 
Line of Sight [10] between hexes;
a unique letter-number identifier – such as 
“C7” – used for determining where Snipers 
and certain Events will take place.
2.2 Map Border
2.2.1—The upper right of each map contains 
its map number which is used to identify 
which map is used for a particular scenario.
2.2.2—In the lower left of each map is a six-
sided ‘compass’ matching the orientation of 
the mapboard hexes. The compass is gener-
ally used for the initial orientation of the 
map during setup and to determine a random 
direction during artillery strikes [O18.2.2], as 
well as for various Events.
On the compass, 1 points to the “top” of the 
map; 4 to the bottom; 2 and 3 to the right 
side; and 5 and 6 to the left side.
2.2.3—Two opposite corners of each map 
contain Artillery Boxes used for holding a 
player’s Radio marker [12].
2.3 Objectives
“In whatever position you find yourself deter-
mine first your objective.”
Each map contains five “Objectives”—red 
circles containing a white number between 1 
and 5. An Objective is worth a variable num-
ber of VPs to the last side to have sole control 
over it [7.3.1], the amount being determined 
by the specific Objective chits in play [7.3.2].
3. The Units
“The infantry doesn’t change. We’re the only 
arm of the military where the weapon is the 
man himself.”
—Major General C. T. Shortis
Name/Rank—The name of any unit is used 
solely for identification purposes. Similarly, 
the historical rank insignia found on all 
Leaders is for aesthetic purposes only. These 
have no effect on actual game play.
Figures—All units have an illustration of one, 
two or four soldier figures to denote their 
relative size: one figure is a “Leader” repre-
senting a single man; two figures a 5-man 
“Team”; and four figures is a 10-man “Squad”. 
3.1 Unit Stats
“Morale is the state of mind. It is steadfast-
ness and courage and hope. It is confidence 
and zeal and loyalty. It is elan, esprit de 
corps and determination.”
—George C. Marshall
Units always have one number in their up-
per right corner and three numbers printed 
along the bottom, even if one or more are “0”. 
Leader units (only) will also have a number 
within a black hex centered along the right 
side of their counter.
3.1.1 Firepower (FP)—This is the first num-
ber along the bottom, and is a unit’s base 

Page 
strength when in Melee [O16.4] or when firing 
at an enemy unit [O20 & A33].
3.1.2 Range—This is the second number along 
the bottom, and is the maximum number of 
hexes away at which it may use its FP to Fire 
at enemy units [O20 & A33].
3.1.3 Movement—This is the third number 
along the bottom, and gives the number of 
Movement Points (“MPs”) a unit can spend 
to Move [O21] from hex to hex across the map.
3.1.4 Morale—This is the number in the upper 
right corner, and is a unit’s base strength 
when defending against an enemy fire attack, 
or when attempting to Recover [O22] or Rout 
[O23], among other things. A unit’s Morale is 
always directly modified by the Cover [T78.3] 
of the hex it currently occupies.
A broken unit [3.2] is identified by having a 
red bar across the top of the counter and its 
Morale number in white instead of black.
3.1.5 Command—This is the black number 
within a black-outlined hex along the right 
hand side of all Leader counters (only). Com-
mand serves to activate additional units 
during Orders and Op Fire [3.3.1.1], as well as 
adding to the stats of certain other units and 
Weapons stacked with it [3.3.1.2 & 3.3.1.3].
3.1.6 Boxed Stats—Some units 
have their FP, Range and/or 
Movement enclosed within a 
square. With the exception of 
boxed FP giving +1 strength 
in Melee [O16.4], boxed stats have no intrinsic 
meaning other than to allow certain Actions 
to be played for that unit [A26, A39 and A40].
3.2 Broken Units
“In an attack, half the men on 
a firing line are in terror and 
the other half are unnerved.”
—J.F.C. Fuller
3.2.1 Broken/Unbroken—A 
unit is always in one of two states: broken or 
unbroken. A unit generally begins a scenario 
face up on its unbroken side, but Fire At-
tacks and other adverse effects can “break” 
it—causing it to flip over to its broken side 
(denoted by having a white Morale number 
and a red bar across the top of the counter).
3.2.2 Attached Markers—Units switching 
from broken to unbroken or vice versa re-
tain control of all Suppressed, Veteran and 
Weapon markers. 
3.2.3 Attached Weapons—Broken units can-
not Fire Weapons. A Weapon does not break 
or unbreak solely because its controlling unit 
does, and vice versa.
3.2.4 Elimination—Any broken unit that 
breaks again is eliminated: award its VP 
value to the opponent [7.1] after placing it on 
the Casualty Track [4.2].
3.2.5 Rallying—When a broken unit is in-
structed to “Rally”, it is flipped back over to 
its unbroken side. This usually occurs due to 
a successful die roll during a Recover Order 
[O22] or via various Events.
3.3 Leaders
“I am more afraid of an army of 100 sheep led 
by a lion than an army of 100 lions led by a 
sheep.”
—Charles Maurice de Talleyrand
3.3.1 Command
3.3.1.1 Command Radius—Normally, an Order 
[O14.1] or Op Fire Action [A33.2] will only 
activate a single unit. When a Leader is ac-
tivated, however, it has the ability to further 
activate all, some or none of the friendly non-
Leader units within its Command’s “Radius” 
to perform the same Order/Op Fire. Com-
mand Radius is counted in hexes radiating 
outward from that Leader’s hex.
A Leader with “2” Command can activate 
friendly units up to two hexes away­­—even 
across impassable terrain or past an enemy 
unit. A “1” Command Leader can activate 
friendly units in or adjacent to its own hex. 
A Leader with “0” Command can activate 
units in its own hex.
3.3.1.2 Unit Command—A Leader’s Command 
number is added directly to the FP, Range, 
Movement and Morale of all friendly Squads 
and Teams (only) as long as those units are 
in the same hex with the Leader—even if the 
Leader itself is not activated. This effect is 
cumulative if two or more Leaders occupy 
the same hex.
It may be clear by now that Leaders can 
never affect themselves or other Leaders.
3.3.1.3 Weapon Command—A Leader’s Com-
mand number is added directly to both the FP 
and Range of every friendly Weapon without 
a white band that is being carried by a non-
Leader unit as long as that unit is in the same 
hex as the Leader—even if the Leader itself 
is not activated. This effect is cumulative if 
two or more Leaders occupy the same hex.
So a Mortar, for example, can’t have its 
stats affected by a Leader stacked with 
it; and a machine gun being carried by a 
Leader won’t have its stats increased.
4. The Track Display
The Track Display is the reception point for 
many of the game’s functions. It is home to 
various tracks and such that players will 
utilize throughout a scenario. Its sections 
are outlined below, as well as in rule 6.
4.1 Victory Track
4.1.1 VP Marker—
The VP marker is 
placed on the Vic-
tory Track at the 
beginning of every scenario, and will move 
back and forth along the track – that is, to-
wards and away from each player – as VPs 
are gained and lost during play. The reverse 
side of the VP marker is used to record VP 
totals greater than 20.
4.1.2 Attack Total 
Marker—This mark-
er is used solely as 
a mnemonic device 
for players to record the current strength of 
any Fire Attack / Mine Attack / Artillery 
Impact / Melee Total. This is helpful for 
when the targeted player’s Fire Defense Rolls 
are interrupted by die triggers.
4.2 Casualty Track
“The cemeteries are filled with 
indispensable men.”
—Charles de Gaulle
Each scenario will instruct the 
players as to which spaces of the Casualty 
Track to place their sides’ Surrender markers. 
The Casualty Track has an upper and a lower 
row, each one “pointing” to the player that 
will use it.
Whenever a non-Hero unit is eliminated, it 
(and its possessed Weapon, if any) is placed 
on the Casualty Track. Weapons are placed 
in the large central box. Units are stacked 
one per numbered space on their owner’s side 
of the Weapons Box, occupying those spaces 
in lowest-to-highest numerical order. In this 
manner, a player will lose the game if one 
of his eliminated units is placed in the space 
occupied by his side’s Surrender marker [6.3].
Remember to gain victory points each time 
an opponent’s unit is eliminated [7.1].
4.3 Miscellaneous
4.3.1 OB Display—The OB Display occupies 
the bottom left of the Track Display. Each 
nationality has an “OB Stats” marker, which 
is used on the OB Display to mark that side’s 
quality (Elite, Line or Green) and number of 
allowed Orders (1-6).
4.3.2 Scenario Date—Each scenario will spec-
ify which space of the Year Track in which to 
place the Year marker.
4.3.3 Objective Box—Place drawn Objective 
chits [7.3.2] here. Each player should place his 
“secret” Objectives in the section closest to 
him. All “open” Objectives should be placed 
in the central section.
4.3.4 Data Boxes—The seven Data Boxes 
along the bottom of the Track Display allow 
players quick access to special rules associ-
ated with various Fortifications and Weapons.

Page 
CORE RULES
5. Sequence of Play
A game of Combat Commander begins 
with one of the players (as specified by the 
scenario being played) performing the first 
“Turn”. When he is finished – and draws up 
to his Hand Size [1.1] – the opposing player 
takes his first Turn. These Turns are then 
alternated until a Sudden Death Roll or other 
occurrence [6.3] ends the game.
A Turn consists of a player choosing to either: 
perform one or more Orders by playing 
cards from his hand [O14]; or 
discard any number of Fate cards [O15].
5.1 Order Capability
“In the absence of orders, go find something 
and kill it.”
In Combat Commander, no player may give 
an Order without the play of a card from his 
hand. The maximum number of Orders a 
player may perform each Turn will either be 
listed as part of his side’s OB or given within 
the scenario itself. Orders do not need to be 
predesignated—they are played from the 
hand, then executed, one at a time. A player 
may observe the results of one Order before 
deciding whether to play another.
The different Orders that may be given by a 
player are explained in rules O16–O23.
5.2 Action Capability
As with Orders, no player may announce an 
Action without the play of a card from his 
hand. Players may perform Actions whenever 
they deem appropriate provided the prereq-
uisite, if any, within the Action itself is met. 
There is no limit to the number of Actions 
a player may perform during either player’s 
Turn other than the number of cards in hand.
The different Actions that may be taken by a 
player are explained in rules A25–A41.
5.3 Discard Capability
If a player chooses to perform no Orders in 
his Turn, he may instead discard [O15] any 
number of cards up to but not exceeding the 
discard capability of the nation he is com-
manding (as shown on the player aid sheet).
5.4 Hand Refill
At the end of every Turn, the active player 
(only) must draw Fate cards off the top of 
his draw pile until the number of cards in 
his hand equals his Hand Size [1.1]. A Hand 
Refill may be temporarily interrupted by a 
Time Marker Advancement [6.1.2] if the last 
card of that player’s deck is drawn—in this 
case, the Hand Refill recommences after the 
Time Marker Advancement procedure (and 
his discard pile has been reshuffled to form a 
new face-down draw pile).
6. Game Time
“Time is everything; five minutes makes the 
difference between victory and defeat.”
—Horatio Nelson 
6.1 Time Marker
6.1.1 Placement
Each Scenario will indicate on 
which space of the Time Track 
(located on the Track Display) 
the Time marker is to be placed (usually “0”).
6.1.2 Advancement
The Time marker is advanced one space for-
ward along the Time Track: 
whenever a “Time!” trigger is rolled; or
whenever a player reveals/draws the last 
card in his draw pile: treat such an occur-
rence exactly as if a “Time!” trigger had 
been rolled.
It is only advanced once – not twice – if the 
last card in a player’s deck is revealed for a 
die roll resulting in a Time! trigger.
Immediately after advancing the Time mark-
er, normal play pauses so that the following 
steps may be executed. 
Players must first perform the following two 
steps in the order shown:
1) the player triggering the Time Advance 
(only) shuffles his deck and discard pile 
together to form a new draw pile;
2) the triggering player makes a Sudden 
Death Roll if appropriate [6.2.2].
Then, if the game did not end due to Sudden 
Death, perform the following four steps in 
the order shown:
3) the Defender (only) gains 1 VP;
4) the triggering player (only) must remove 
any one Smoke marker from the map;
5) if there are one or more units in the space 
now occupied by the Time marker, the 
owning player(s) brings them into play 
as reinforcements by placing them in 
any hex(es) along his friendly board edge 
(inactive player first). Stacking limits [8] 
must be observed. Any reinforcement 
Radio is placed into that player’s (empty) 
Artillery Box instead;
6) both players may play “Dig In” Actions 
[A32].
Once the six steps above have been com-
pleted in their entirety, normal play resumes 
from wherever it left off.
6.2 Sudden Death Marker
6.2.1 Placement
Each Scenario will indicate on 
which space of the Time Track 
the Sudden Death marker is to 
be placed.
6.2.2 Procedure
Whenever the Time marker advances into 
or beyond the space occupied by the Sudden 
Death marker, the triggering player must 
make a roll—this is done after that player 
shuffles his Fate deck and discard pile to-
gether to form a new draw pile. If the result 
is less than the number in the space currently 
occupied by the Time marker (not the Sudden 
Death marker itself), the game immediately 
ends [6.3, below]. Otherwise, play proceeds as 
normal.
6.3 Game End
“Self and three men left. It can’t be much lon-
ger. Good-bye and cheerio.”
—a British officer 
at the battle of Sidi Nsir, Tunisia
A game of Combat Commander will gener-
ally end in one of four ways:
1) A player is forced to place one of his 
eliminated units in the space of the 
Casualty Track occupied by his Surrender 
marker;
2) A player’s last remaining unit on the map 
is eliminated;
3) A player’s last remaining unit on the map 
voluntarily exits the map [7.2.1];
4) A Sudden Death Roll [6.2.2] is made that 
is less than the the number in the space 
currently occupied by the Time marker.
6.3.1—If the first or second situation above 
occurs, that player immediately and auto-
matically loses the game regardless of the VP 
total. If both players simultaneously lose in 
this manner, the player holding the Initiative 
card breaks the tie and wins the game [9.2].
6.3.2—If the third or fourth situation above 
occurs and the first two situations do not ap-
ply, players must reveal any secret Objective 
chits and award their VPs to the current con-
troller. Then, the player with the higher VP 
total – that is, the VP marker is on his side 
of the “0” space – wins the game. If the VP 
marker is in the “0” space, the player holding 
the Initiative card wins the game.
7. Victory Conditions
“I want to tear out the pages of my diary 
where I wrote about the collapse of my will. 
But let them stay there as a lesson in life 
that it’s wrong to jump to conclusions just 
because things aren’t going so well.”
—Nikolai Moskvin, 
 after the Soviet victory at Stalingrad 
A player will usually win the game by having 
more VPs than his opponent when the game 
ends [6.3]. VPs are earned in one of three 
ways:
Elimination of enemy units;
Exiting of friendly units off the opponent’s 
map edge;
control of mapboard Objectives.

Page 7
7.1 Elimination Victory Points
When a unit is eliminated – for any reason: 
via Order, Action or Event – the opponent is 
awarded a certain number of VPs for it:
A Squad is worth 2 VPs;
A Team is worth 1 VP;
A Leader (exception: Hero) is worth 1 VP 
plus 1 VP for each point of Command on 
its unbroken side;
A Hero is worth zero VPs. 
These values are also shown on the player 
aid sheet for ease of reference during play.
7.2 Exit Victory Points
Each map is considered to have an impene-
trable barrier to the left and right side of each 
player once play commences. A unit may 
never exit the map off the right or left flank.
However, the edges of the map nearest each 
player can be exited by units in play (as if the 
dark gray border were another hex). Gener-
ally, voluntarily exiting friendly units off the 
opponent’s map edge during a Move [O21] 
or Advance [O16] Order will gain you VPs, 
while friendly units exiting your own board 
edge via forced Retreat during a Rout Order 
[O23] will cause you to lose VPs.
7.2.1 Voluntary Exit
An Advancing [O16] or Moving [O21] unit may 
exit the map – at a MP cost of “1” – off the 
opponent’s board edge. The owning player is 
immediately awarded Exit VPs for the exited 
unit [7.1]. That unit is then placed on any 
space of the Time Track the owning player 
wishes. A unit is always placed on the Time 
Track unbroken, even if it was broken as it 
exited. The unit retains possession of any 
Weapon it was carrying – again becoming 
unbroken if it was broken when exited – but 
does lose any Veteran or Suppressed marker 
that may have been attached.
Such a unit is now considered to be a com-
pletely different “reinforcement” unit.
7.2.2 Involuntary Exit
A Retreating unit [O23.3] may be forced off 
the map along its own friendly board edge, 
being eliminated in the process. Such a unit 
is placed on the next empty space of the 
Casualty Track after awarding the opponent 
Elimination VPs for it [7.1]. The eliminated 
unit does not retain possession of its Weapon 
– which is placed, unbroken, in the “Weapon” 
section of the Casualty Track – nor does it 
retain any Veteran or Suppressed marker that 
may have been attached. 
7.3 Objective Victory Points
Each of the five Objectives on every map can 
be worth one or more VPs, depending on 
which Objective Chits are in play. Objectives 
are otherwise worth zero VPs by default.
7.3.1 Control of Objectives
The double-sided Control markers are used to 
indicate which side currently controls each 
Objective on the map [2.3]. 
During initial setup, the scenario will specify 
which Objectives begin under each player’s 
control. In some cases, Objectives may begin 
the game uncontrolled by either side: these 
should not contain any control marker. Oth-
erwise, once play commences, the last player 
to have solely occupied an Objective should 
place/flip the control marker over within 
that Objective to match the nationality he is 
commanding.
7.3.1.1 Building Objectives
An Objective located in a building hex is con-
sidered to be that entire building if it spans 
more than one hex. In such a case, every hex 
of that building must be devoid of enemy 
units in order for a player to take control of it.
7.3.2 Objective Chits
There are 22 Objective markers – or ‘chits’ 
– included with the game. Objective chits are 
usually drawn at random, and are used to 
determine specific additional victory condi-
tions for each scenario, usually in the form 
of assigning a VP value to one or more map-
board Objectives [2.3].
Each Objective chit drawn will show a vic-
tory condition on its “open” side. Most of 
these will be in the form of:
Showing that Objective X is worth Y VPs to 
its controller. These values are cumulative 
with other Objective chits.
If all three chits for Objective #3 were in 
play (C, G and K), Objective 3 would be 
worth 6 VPs total (1 + 2 + 3).
Several Objective chits show:
This means that the five Objectives on the 
map are worth Y VPs each. These values are 
cumulative with other Objective chits.
The three specialized Objective chits labeled
(open)
Objective
Elim. points
are doubled
(open)
Objective
Exit points
are doubled
indicate, respectively, that: 
immediately prior to each Sudden Death 
Roll [6.2.2], if any player controls all five 
Objectives that player automatically wins 
the game regardless of current VP totals;
VPs for the voluntary exit of units [7.2.1] 
are doubled for both players;
VPs for the elimination of units [7.1] are 
doubled for both players.
Some Objectives may be worthless at the 
end of the game. Players should still try 
to take control of all Objectives on a map 
in case the opponent’s secret Objective 
includes one or more valuable ones.
7.3.3 Open & Secret Objectives
Open Objective chits – as well as secret ones 
that have been revealed during play [E67] 
– should be placed with their “open” sides 
face up in the center of the Objective Box. 
Secret Objective chits should be kept face 
down in the Objective Box—only that player 
may look at the “open” underside of the chit. 
Note that a few of the Objective chits have 
no “secret” side—if a player draws one of 
these as their secret Objective, tough luck: 
it must be revealed as an open Objective.
Open Objectives award their VPs immedi-
ately during play of the game, whereas secret 
Objectives usually award their points at game 
end (or whenever they are revealed).
Whenever an open Objective changes 
ownership on the map, remember to first 
subtract its value from its former control-
ler before adding its value to the new 
controller’s victory points—in this manner, 
an Objective worth 4 VPs would cause an 
eight point swing when it changes hands.
8. Stacking
Placing more than one unit or marker in the 
same hex is called “stacking”.
CC’s oversized hexes allow counters to sit 
side by side within it. Even though these 
pieces may not physically be “stacked” 
upon one another, they are considered to 
be “stacked together” for game purposes.
8.1 Marker Stacking
Stacking limits are enforced for all markers 
immediately after placement. There is no 
limit to the number of markers that may oc-
cupy a single location except as follows:
8.1.1 Unit Markers—Each unit in play may 
have a maximum of one of each of the fol-
lowing markers stacked upon it:
Suppressed
Veteran
Weapon (any unit may carry any Weapon)
8.1.2 Radios—Only one Radio may be 
stacked in each of the two Artillery Boxes: 
one per player. The first such Radio takes 
precedence.
8.1.3 Fortifications—Only one Fortification 
marker can ever occupy a single hex. The 
first such Fortification takes precedence.

Page 8
So if the Shellholes Event instructed you to 
place a Foxholes marker into a hex already 
containing Wire, those Foxholes would not 
be placed.
8.1.4 Smoke—Only one Smoke marker can 
stack in a single hex. The one with the largest 
Hindrance takes precedence.
8.1.5 Blaze—Only one Blaze marker can ever 
occupy a single hex. While a Blaze is in a 
hex, no marker listed above and no unit may 
exist there.
8.2 Unit Stacking
The number of friendly units that can legally 
stack in a hex is based upon the number of 
soldier figures on those counters: a number 
of friendly units containing a total of up to 
seven figures can be stacked in the same hex 
without penalty. Any hex containing friendly 
units with a total of eight or more soldier fig-
ures is in violation of the stacking limits and 
is considered “overstacked”.
Unit stacking limits are enforced at the end 
of every Turn. At that time, the owning player 
must eliminate sufficient units in order to 
bring any hex found to be overstacked back 
into compliance. In each overstacked hex, 
a player may choose to perform up to one 
free Deploy Event [E52] immediately prior to 
eliminating units in this manner.
Example: Due to a Retreat, the Axis 
player finds that he has two broken Ger-
man Squads in a single hex at the end of the 
Allied player’s Turn. He first opts to Deploy 
one of them into two (broken) Teams. He 
then eliminates one of those Teams. No 
further units need be eliminated as there 
are now only six soldier icons remaining in 
the hex, bringing it within stacking limits.
You are generally free to violate stacking 
limits during a Turn – in order to Advance 
extra units into a Melee situation, for 
example – but must figure out a way to 
remedy the situation by the end of the Turn 
or face cardboard calamity.
9. Initiative
When playing a pre-generated scenario, that 
scenario will indicate which side begins 
the game with the Initiative card. During 
a Random Scenario Generation, a player’s 
Initiative number is listed within his side’s 
purchased OB: in this case, the player with 
the higher Initiative number will begin the 
game with the Initiative card.
IMPORTANT: The Initiative card is never 
part of a player’s hand and therefore does 
not count against his hand size limit. 
9.1 Re-Roll
At any time during the game, the player 
currently in control of the Initiative card 
may choose to cancel all effects of the last 
die roll to have been made – including any 
die trigger associated with it – and cause it 
to be re-rolled. This decision must be made 
prior to any trigger/results of that roll being 
implemented.
When a player calls for a re-roll in this man-
ner, he must give the Initiative card to his 
opponent, who will then control it unless and 
until he performs a re-roll option, thus pass-
ing it back to the first player. This passing of 
the Initiative can occur an unlimited number 
of times during the game: even during the 
same series of die rolls.
9.2 Tie Game
When a scenario ends in a tie – “0” VPs after 
Sudden Death or both players Surrendering 
simultaneously, for example – the player 
holding the Initiative card wins the game.
The Initiative card thus acts as a sort of 
balancing mechanism to temper those wild 
strings of luck inherent in any game with 
cards or dice. Initiative will generally pass 
back and forth between the two players as 
the fortunes of war play out, though this 
isn’t mandatory—it is possible, however 
unlikely, that a player could refrain from 
using it throughout an entire game. 
10. Line of Sight (LOS)
10.1 LOS Checks
Generally, a unit in one hex must be able to 
“see” a unit in another hex in order to fire at it. 
A LOS “check” is made by stretching a string 
taut between the “sighting” hex’s center dot 
and the “target” hex’s center dot. If the string 
touches the physical depiction of a terrain 
Obstacle or Hindrance in an intervening hex, 
that LOS is blocked [10.2] or hindered [10.3], 
respectively. Such a LOS check may be made 
at any time by either player.
Any Obstacle or Hindrance that is in – or part 
of, such as a Fence or Wall [T84, T97] – the 
sighting or target hex will not affect LOS.
So a Wall hexside that is not one of the six 
sides of the sighter’s or target’s hex blocks 
LOS between them, even if the LOS is traced 
exactly along the Wall’s hexspine.
LOS is always reciprocal: if unit A can see 
unit B, then unit B can also see unit A.
10.1.1 Units & LOS
Units – friendly or enemy – in an intervening 
hex do not block or hinder LOS in any way.
10.2 Obstacles & LOS
Any terrain [T79–T99] with the “ ” symbol 
in its LOS column of the Terrain Chart is 
termed an “Obstacle”. 
A unit in one hex can’t see a unit in another 
hex if that LOS is blocked by an Obstacle. 
10.2.1 Blaze Obstacles
A Blaze marker [T79] is considered to fill the 
entirety of the hex that it occupies. In other 
words, a LOS traced through any portion of 
a Blazing hex – including directly along its 
hexside – is blocked by that marker.
10.3 Hindrances & LOS
Some terrain is too sparse or too low to be 
considered a complete obstacle to LOS, and 
is thus termed a “Hindrance” because it 
hinders fire traced through it to another hex 
rather than preventing the shot altogether.
10.3.1 Targeting & Hindrances
Any Accuracy [O18.2.2] or Targeting [O20.2] 
LOS traced through an intervening Hin-
drance will have its roll decreased by an 
amount equal to the number listed in that 
terrain’s LOS column of the Terrain Chart. 
If the Radio/Weapon hits, any subsequent 
Artillery Impact/Fire Attack Roll will be 
unaffected by the Hindrance.
The hindrance was already taken into ac-
count by lessening the chances of hitting 
the intended target in the first place.
10.3.2 Fire Attacks & Hindrances
Any non-Ordnance Fire Attack [O20.3] traced 
through an intervening Hindrance will have 
its FP reduced by an amount equal to the 
number listed in that terrain’s LOS column of 
the Terrain Chart.
10.3.2.1 Minimum Firepower—A Fire Attack 
that would be reduced to “0” or less FP due 
to Hindrance cannot be made: a final FP of 
at least “1” is required for a Fire Attack Roll 
to be made. Actions that increase a Fire 
Attack’s strength may be used in order to 
raise that shot’s FP to 1 or more.
10.3.3 Hindrance Modifiers
Hindrances are not cumulative: the single 
largest modifier is used, and this modifier 
does not become greater if the number of 
Hindrances between the sighting and target 
hexes is greater than one.
A Squad Fires at a Team three hexes away. 
Both hexes between them contain Brush. 
The Team’s total FP is reduced by -3 for one 
Brush Hindrance, not -6 for both. If one of 
the two intervening hexes also contained a 
“4” Smoke marker, the FP would be reduced 
by -4 instead for the Smoke. If both inter-
vening hexes contained “4” Smoke markers, 
the modifier would still only be -4.
10.3.4 Smoke Hindrances
A Smoke marker [T94] is considered to fill the 
entirety of the hex that it occupies. In other 
words, a LOS traced through any portion of 
a Smoked hex – including directly along its 
hexside – is hindered by that marker.

Examples of Line of Sight (LOS):
A—Herzog in J9 cannot see Borbe in K6 past the intervening Woods at the same elevation.
B—Herzog cannot see down to Bolter in L6 past the intervening Hill that is at the same 
elevation as Herzog [T88.3.2]; if Herzog was on a Level 2 Hill Crest, however, the LOS 
would be open, as he would then be higher than the intervening Hill obstacle.
C—Herzog can see Grein in N6 over the lower-elevation Woods obstacle [T88.4].
D,E—Guttman in J7 cannot see down to Schmidt in M9 due to the Woods creating one 
blind hex [T88.4.1]. He can see Pfeiffer one hex further away in N9, however.
F—Schmidt can see Benzing in M4 because the LOS travels exactly along the road depic-
tion as it passes by the Woods obstacle in hex M5 [10.2 and T93].
G—Schmidt can see Grein; any Attack between the two hexes, however, would suffer a -2 
penalty for the intervening Orchard hindrance in hex N7 [10.3.1 & 10.3.2].
H—Schmidt can see Wehling in N7, albeit with a 7 Hindrance due to the Smoke [10.3.4]; if a 
Wall existed along the M8/N8 hexside, the LOS would be blocked instead [10.1 gray box].
J—Pfeiffer can see Wehling. Any Fire Attacks made between their two hexes would suffer 
a -7 Hindrance for the Smoke; not -9 for both the Smoke and Orchard [10.3.3].
Page 9
The physical placement of a Smoke/Blaze 
marker within a hex is unimportant: these are 
“inherent” terrain, and are considered to affect 
the entire hex – including all six hexsides – as 
long as they remain.
Furthermore, Smoke hinders any LOS traced 
into or out of it, not just through it like printed 
mapboard Hindrances.
Continuing the example from [10.3.3], if the 
Squad’s hex contained a “5” Smoke marker, 
its FP would be reduced by -5 instead. 
11. Weapons
11.1 Effects
As with units, Weap-
ons have both a FP and 
a Range – sometimes 
boxed – and possibly a detrimental modifier 
(in bold red, like in the sample above) to the 
carrying unit’s Movement. Whenever a unit 
is activated [O14.1], any Weapon it is carrying 
is activated along with it. Only an unbroken, 
unsuppressed [13] unit may fire its Weapon, and 
may do so either separately or as part of a Fire 
Group [O20.3.1].
11.2 Portage
Each unit may “carry” one allotted Weapon, 
denoted by having the Weapon physically placed 
atop that unit. Any Weapon acquired via that 
nation’s Support Table must be given to the unit 
listed with that Weapon.
11.3 Removal & Transfer
A Weapon may be transferred to another unit via 
the expenditure of 1 MP during a Move Order 
[O21.1.1]. 
A Weapon may be voluntarily eliminated by its 
current owner at any time. 
If a unit with a Weapon is eliminated or exits the 
map, the Weapon goes with it. A Weapon being 
carried by a Squad that Deploys [E52] is given to 
one of the two replacing Teams.
11.4 Broken Weapons
When a Weapon breaks, it is flipped over to its 
“Broken” side. A broken Weapon that breaks 
again is eliminated. 
Whenever a player checks for a Random Hex 
[1.8] – either via Sniper! or due to certain Events 
– the hex number is compared to that on every 
broken Weapon in play. This happens before the 
result of the Event/Sniper itself is implemented. 
If the number falls within that Weapon’s “Fix” 
range, it is flipped back over to its unbroken 
side, available for immediate use.
If the number falls within that Weapon’s 
“Elim” range, it is eliminated and placed in 
the “Weapon” space of the Casualty Track.
Otherwise, the Weapon remains broken.
J

Page 10
11.5 Ordnance
Some Weapons – those with a white bar be-
hind their stats, like the two pictured below 
– are termed “Ordnance”. Ordnance: 
must first secure a hit via Targeting before 
making a Fire Attack Roll [O20.2]; 
cannot participate in a Fire Group [O20.3.1];
and cannot be used during Opportunity 
Fire [A33].
11.6 Specialized Weapons
A Flamethrower or Molotov 
Cocktail automatically sets its 
target’s Cover [T78.3] to “0”, with 
no modifications possible.
A Satchel Charge or Molotov 
Cocktail is a one-use Weapon 
and as such must be eliminated 
immediately after it makes a Fire 
Attack Roll [O20.3].
12. Radios
Radios are mark-
ers representing 
off-map artillery 
batteries. Each has 
a FP of between 8 and 13. If a player acquires 
a Radio, it is placed in the Artillery Box clos-
est to him (on one of the two corners of the 
map). Each player may have only one Radio 
in play at a time. A Radio is not a Weapon.
See O17 and O18 for rules on Radio usage.
13. Suppression
13.1 Placement
A Suppressed marker can be 
placed on a unit via the Cower 
[E51], Interdiction [E60] or Sup-
pressing Fire [E75] Events, or due to a “tie” 
result during a Fire Defense [O20.3.4], Rally 
[O22.3] or Rout [O23.2] Roll.
13.2 Effects
A unit with a Suppressed marker on it has -1 
FP, -1 Range, -1 Movement and -1 Morale. 
Command is unaffected by being Suppressed.
Weapons themselves cannot become Sup-
pressed, but a Suppressed unit cannot fire any 
Weapon it possesses.
The “Ø Wpn” in the upper left corner of a 
Suppressed marker is there as a reminder.
13.3 Removal
A Suppressed marker can only be removed 
from a unit at the beginning of a Recover 
Order, or if the unit is eliminated or exits the 
map. A Suppressed Squad that Deploys [E52] 
transfers its Suppressed status to only one of 
the two replacing Teams.
ORDERS
“Do, or do not. There is no try.”
—Yoda
RECOVER
ORDER
O14. General Rules
O14.1 Activation—To perform – or “give” – an 
Order, the active player (only) must reveal a 
card from his hand and announce that he is 
performing the Order listed at the top. The 
card is then placed in the player’s discard 
pile. Then, if that particular Order is one that 
“activates” something, he activates one player 
or friendly unit (as appropriate for the Order) 
that has not yet been activated that Turn to 
perform the Order. If a Leader is activated 
in this manner, it may in turn activate all, 
some or none of the friendly non-Leader 
units within its Command Radius [3.3.1.1] to 
perform the same Order—none of which can 
have been previously activated that Turn. All 
units to be activated for an Order must be 
identified before the Order is carried out.
IMPORTANT—No Order may be given with-
out the play of a Fate card from the hand and 
with that Order’s name listed across the top.
O14.2—An announced Order must be per-
formed in its entirety before the next Order 
is given or before the player announces the 
end of his Turn. This includes any Actions 
requiring that Order to be in effect.
You can’t activate two units to Move, move 
one, play a Rout Order on your opponent to 
get an enemy unit out of the way, then come 
back and move the other unit.
O14.3—Any number of Actions may be an-
nounced by either player during an Order as 
long as the prerequisites for those Actions are 
met. Any number of Events could also occur 
at random during an Order.
If you activated a Leader and a Squad to 
Move, the Squad could move first and play 
one or more Smoke Grenade Actions before 
the Leader begins moving.
O14.4—Once an Order is given, at least one 
of the units activated for that Order must 
physically carry it out.
If a Move Order is given, at least one acti-
vated unit must physically cross a hexside 
into another hex—you couldn’t give a Move 
Order for the sole purpose of playing an 
Assault Fire Action, for example.
O15. Pass (Discard)
If a player chooses to give no Orders during 
his Turn, he may instead discard any number 
of cards, up to his nationality’s Discard Limit 
(as shown on the player aid sheet).
The various Orders are described in detail, 
below, and are listed in alphabetical order 
for ease of reference.
O16. Advance
“My center is giving way, my right is in re-
treat; situation excellent. I shall attack.”
O16.1 Procedure
A unit that is activated to Advance can enter 
one of the six hexes adjacent to the one it cur-
rently occupies, where it must stop. This can 
be done even if the hex is enemy-occupied.
This is the best way in which to enter into 
Melee with opposing units.
MPs and terrain Move Costs are ignored 
during an Advance. In addition, the inactive 
player can not use Op Fire [A33] against ad-
vancing units.
You only get to go one hex but you are im-
mune to Fire Attacks as you do so.
O16.2 Abilities
An advancing unit may:
enter an enemy-occupied hex;
exit off the enemy board edge;
cross a Cliff hexside [T83] if it is not carry-
ing a Weapon.
O16.3 Restrictions
An advancing unit may not:
enter an impassable hex [T79; T98];
enter or exit a Major Bridge hex [T80.1] 
across anything other than its Road/Rail 
hexsides;
exit off the left, right or friendly board 
edge.
O16.4 Melee
“The essence of war is violence. Moderation 
in war is imbecility.”
—John Arbuthnot Fisher
At the end of any Order or die trigger that 
causes a hex to contain units belonging to 
both sides, a Melee ensues in that hex. If 
more than one hex contains a Melee, the 
active player selects the order in which they 
will be resolved, one at a time.
O16.4.1 Melee Strength
After both players have played and resolved 
any Ambush Actions [A25], each adds up the 
current FP of each of his remaining units 
– not Weapons – in the Melee hex, then adds 
+1 for each of those units with a boxed FP to 
arrive at his “Melee FP”. 
If, due to Ambush Actions, one or both sides 
have no units remaining in the hex, the Melee 
ends with no further effect.

Page 11
O16.4.2 Melee Roll
The inactive player makes a die roll and adds 
it to his Melee FP to arrive at his “Melee 
Total”. Then the active player makes a die roll 
and adds it to his Melee FP to arrive at his 
Melee Total.
The rolls – while ostensibly simultaneous 
– are staggered in order to facilitate die 
triggers and possible use of the Initiative 
card after each one.
If, due to a trigger during a Melee Roll, one 
or both sides have no units remaining in the 
hex, the Melee ends with no further effect.
O16.4.3 Melee Result
The side with the lower Melee Total has all 
of its participating units eliminated. In case 
of a tie, both sides are eliminated unless one 
player began the Melee in a Bunker [F101] or 
Pillbox [F104], in which case only the other 
side is eliminated.
It can sometimes be advantageous to 
overstack when advancing into a Melee 
situation in order to have a better chance 
of winning it (or as Ambush Insurance™) 
even though you will likely lose one or more 
of those units to overstacking at the end of 
the Turn.
O17. Artillery Denied
“Beagle calling Doghouse, come in Doghouse. 
Beagle calling Doghouse, come in Doghouse. 
Doghouse this is Beagle, do you copy? Come 
in, please!”
—Lieutenant Foley
When an Artillery Denied Order is given, 
that player simply causes his opponent’s 
Radio [12] to break. If the Radio was already 
broken, eliminate it instead. An eliminated 
Radio is always placed back into the counter 
mix rather than on the Casualty Track.
Nothing is activated during an Artillery De-
nied Order, though there must be an enemy 
Radio in play for the Order to be announced.
Keep in mind, as well, that a radio doesn’t 
‘break’ per se—an eliminated or broken 
radio more likely represents the unwilling-
ness of the battery commander far behind 
the lines to support your battle at this par-
ticular point in time: other sectors of the 
front (off-map) may have a more pressing 
need and thus are getting their fire missions 
resolved first.
O18. Artillery Request
“Artillerymen believe the world consists of 
two types of people: Other artillerymen and 
targets.”
—unknown
When an Artillery Request Order is given, 
that player must choose to perform one of 
either “Battery Access” or “Fire For Effect”. 
Battery Access may only be chosen if he has 
a broken Radio [12] in play. Fire For Effect 
may only be chosen if he has both an unbro-
ken Radio in play and an unbroken Leader in 
play that has yet to be activated this Turn. If 
neither of these conditions exist, the Order 
cannot be given.
O18.1 Battery Access
If Battery Access is chosen, the active player 
simply ‘fixes’ his broken Radio by flipping it 
back over to its unbroken side, ready for im-
mediate use.
Similar to the Artillery Denied action, noth-
ing is activated when choosing this option 
– the active player just needs to have a 
broken Radio in play. This means that if 
the active player had a second Artillery 
Request in his hand, he could use it as his 
next Order and choose Fire For Effect.
O18.2 Fire For Effect
If Fire For Effect is chosen, the active player 
activates one of his unbroken Leaders (only).
This Leader will act as the “Spotter” for the 
ensuing bombardment. 
The active player then performs the following 
three steps, in the exact order given:
1) Spotting;
2) Accuracy;
3) Impact.
Each step is explained in detail below.
An Artillery Request represents a Leader 
calling for a “Fire For Effect” in order to 
bring down several hexes worth of bom-
bardment. A Radio operator is considered 
to be spending the time in between Artillery 
Request Orders requesting, observing and 
correcting spotting rounds.
O18.2.1 Spotting
First, place the Spotting 
Round (SR) into any hex 
within the LOS of the Spotter: 
this will indicate the hex that 
is to be the intended center of 
the artillery bombardment. This hex can be 
an otherwise impassable hex (such as a Blaze 
or Water Barrier).
O18.2.1.1 Smoke Rounds—Most Radios are 
able to place Smoke in the targeted hexes 
instead of making Impact Rolls against them. 
This ability is available to any Radio with the 
word “Smoke” to the right of the Radio il-
lustration. If the active player wishes to place 
Smoke, he must announce this decision aloud 
now; prior to making his Accuracy attempt.
O18.2.2 Accuracy
Once the SR has been placed, make a normal 
Targeting Roll [O20.2.3] using the range 
between the Spotter and the SR’s current hex. 
This roll is modified by any Hindrances along 
the way, as usual [10.3.1].
O18.2.2.1 Hit—If the Targeting Roll secures a 
‘hit,’ the Artillery is accurate. Reveal the top 
card of the Fate deck and ignore everything 
but the two dice (this is NOT a roll, so no die 
triggers). Using the hex-compass on the map, 
each die will give the direction in which the 
SR will err: the SR moves one hex in the 
white die’s direction, then it moves one hex 
in the colored die’s direction.
Yes, this could bring the SR right back into 
the same hex—good shot!
O18.2.2.2 Miss—If the Targeting Roll was a 
‘miss,’ the Artillery is inaccurate. Reveal the 
top card of the Fate deck and ignore every-
thing but the two dice (this is NOT a roll, so 
no die triggers). Using the hex-compass on 
the map, the first (white) die gives the direc-
tion in which the SR will err. The second 
(colored) die is the distance in hexes the SR 
will travel in that direction.
Yes, this could bring the SR right back on 
top of your own troops—bad shot!
O18.2.2.3 Off-Map—Any SR that errs off the 
map – even if just briefly – is removed with 
no further effect and the Order ends. And, 
due to artillery’s 7-hex blast area (see below), 
a SR can occupy an otherwise impassable 
hex (such as a Blaze or Water Barrier).
O18.2.3 Impact
The hex into which the SR finally lands be-
comes the center hex of the activated Radio’s 
artillery impact area; in other words, the SR’s 
hex and each adjacent hex will be affected.
The active player determines the order in 
which these seven hexes are attacked, though 
each may only have a maximum of one such 
Impact Roll made against it.
O18.2.3.1 Smoke Barrage—If, during the 
Spotting step, the active player announced 
“Smoke” instead of a normal artillery barrage, 
he simply places seven random Smoke mark-
ers on the map—one into the hex occupied 
by the SR and one in each adjacent hex. This 
ends the Order: remove the SR from the map.
O18.2.3.2 Artillery Barrage—If this was not 
a smoke barrage, then each hex within the 
impact area that contains at least one unit or 
Fortification must have a separate Artillery 
Impact Roll made against it.
Hexes within the blast area but void of 
units/Fortifications are not attacked.
An Artillery Impact Roll follows the same 
rules and restrictions as for a Fire Attack 
Roll [O20.3.3 and O20.3.4] but, because Radios 
are not Weapons, a “Jammed!” trigger will 
not break the Radio.
O18.2.3.3 vs Fortifications—The Artillery 
box on the Track Display lists a “Fortification 
Vulnerability” number for each Radio FP. 

Page 12
If an Artillery Impact Roll is exactly equal 
to the Fortification Vulnerability number 
associated with that Radio’s FP, then any 
Fortification in the targeted hex is destroyed 
before any units therein make their Fire De-
fense Rolls.
Also note that most Fortifications (Foxholes, 
for instance) have a +1 modifier to their 
Cover when targeted by artillery.
O19. Command Confusion
“Never interrupt your enemy when he is mak-
ing a mistake.”
—Napoleon Bonaparte
This card can’t be played for an Order.
It acts as a ‘dud’ in your hand—hope that 
you have a decent Action on this card.
O20. Fire
O20.1 Suspected Targets
For a Fire Order to be announced, at least one 
of the activated units (or its Weapon) must 
have an enemy unit within both its LOS and 
Range.
You can activate Leader A to fire, who then 
activates Squad B. This is legal if Squad B 
is the only one of the two with both LOS 
and Range to an enemy unit. You could also 
activate a 2-Range Team to fire even if the 
nearest enemy unit is three or more hexes 
away if that Team was carrying a Weapon 
capable of firing at that enemy unit.
O20.2 Ordnance & Targeting
All Ordnance Weapons [11.5] 
must first secure a hit against the 
targeted hex before making a 
Fire Attack Roll against it. 
All other Weapons – and all units – need 
not perform a Targeting Roll and proceed 
directly to the next step [O20.3] when firing.
Generally, the range between the firing Ord-
nance and the target hex is determined, then 
a Targeting Roll is made to see if the Weapon 
hits and, if so, a Fire Attack Roll [O20.3.3] is 
then made using that Weapon’s FP.
And remember that stats within a white band 
are never modified by a friendly Leader’s 
Command number [3.3.1.3].
O20.2.1 Smoke Rounds
Some Weapons are able to place a Smoke 
marker in the targeted hex (as indicated 
by the word “Smoke” to the right of the 
Weapon’s illustration) instead of making a 
normal Fire Attack Roll. Ordnance is al-
lowed to target any hex within its Range 
– even one containing no enemy units – if it 
will place Smoke this way. The active player 
must declare this decision aloud when he 
selects the target hex, prior to making the 
Targeting Roll.
If smoke placement is announced in this 
manner, then a successful Targeting Roll will 
simply place a random Smoke marker into 
the targeted hex instead of using the Weap-
on’s FP to make a Fire Attack Roll against it.
O20.2.2 Targeting Range
Determine the range by counting the number 
of hexes from the firing unit to its target hex 
– including the target hex but excluding the 
firing unit’s hex. If this range is greater than 
the printed Range on the firing Weapon, the 
shot cannot be attempted in the first place.
Note that Mortars also have a minimum 
range at which they can fire. For example, 
the Russian Light Mortar has a Range of 
“2-14”, so it can’t fire at an adjacent hex.
O20.2.3 Targeting Roll
“Nothing in life is so exhilarating as to be shot 
at without result.”
—Winston Churchill
Once the range is determined, the active 
player must make a die roll – but multiplying 
the two dice together rather than adding them 
together as with other rolls – that is greater 
than the range in order to hit the targeted hex. 
Any other result is a miss and the attack is 
cancelled with no further effect. 
So a Targeting Roll of 1∙6 (total of “6”) 
misses at range 6 or more, and will hit if the 
range is 5 or less. A Targeting Roll of 6∙6 is 
“36” and will hit anything, while a roll of 1∙1 
is “1” and will miss everything.
Targeting & Hindrances—Targeting Rolls are 
always modified by any relevant Hindrance 
along the way [10.3.1].
Ordnance firing at a target 5 hexes away 
with one or more Brush hexes in between 
(Hindrance of -3) would need to physically 
roll 9 or more to hit instead of 6+.
O20.3 Fire Attack
“It is even better to act quickly and err than to 
hesitate until the time of action is past.”
—Karl von Clausewitz
Each piece that is activated to Fire may take 
one shot at any hex within both its Range and 
LOS, either alone or as part of a Fire Group 
[O20.3.1]. And, unless firing Smoke [O20.2.1], 
there must be at least one enemy unit in a 
targeted hex for the shot to occur.
IMPORTANT—Units (friendly or enemy) in an 
intervening hex are not affected by any Fire 
Attack that passes through their hex.
Generally, a unit’s FP – modified both by 
Command and by any Hindrances between 
itself and the target – is added to a “Fire 
Attack Roll” to arrive at an “Attack Total”. 
Then each unit in the affected hex adds its 
Morale – modified by Command/Cover – to 
a “Fire Defense Roll” to arrive at a “Defense 
Total”. If the firer’s Attack Total beats a unit’s 
Defense Total, that unit breaks [3.2]. If the 
Totals are tied, a Moving target breaks while 
a non-Moving target becomes Suppressed 
[13]. Any other result will have no effect.
This is how we make moving a bit more 
dangerous than remaining stationary: if 
the active player’s Moving units are being 
shot at via Opportunity Fire [A33], they will 
break on a tied result rather just becoming 
Suppressed.
O20.3.1 Fire Groups
Two or more activated units/Weapons (or 
“pieces”) may fire together by combining into 
a Fire Group. Every piece in a Fire Group 
must have both an unobstructed LOS to the 
target hex and be within Range of that hex 
for the Fire Attack Roll to be made. Further-
more, if units in a Fire Group occupy more 
than one hex, each such hex must be adjacent 
to at least one other (so that it forms a “chain” 
of adjacent firing units). 
O20.3.1.1 Ordnance—Weapons with a white 
band must always fire alone and thus can 
never be assigned as part of a Fire Group.
Fire Groups are never mandatory—pieces 
that could form a Fire Group may choose 
to fire separately or to form smaller Fire 
Groups, at the owning player’s discretion. 
A unit and its Weapon may even fire sepa-
rately and at the same or different hexes.
O20.3.1.2 Group FP—The total FP of a Fire 
Group is X+Y, where X is the FP of one fir-
ing piece and Y is the number of other firing 
pieces [see “C” in the Fire Attack example on the 
following page].
O20.3.2 Attack Hindrances
If the LOS from any non-Ordnance firing 
piece and the target hex is hindered [10.3], 
that shot’s FP is reduced by the largest such 
Hindrance. If this would modify the attack’s 
total FP to zero or less, the shot cannot even 
be attempted; though the firing piece(s) could 
still attempt a different shot with a lesser (or 
no) Hindrance.
Keep in mind that Actions such as Crossfire 
[A30] or Marksmanship [A37] can increase 
a Fire Attack’s strength to greater than 0, 
thus allowing a hindered shot to occur.
O20.3.3 Fire Attack Roll
Once the final FP is determined, the firing 
player makes a roll and adds it to the final FP 
to arrive at an “Attack Total”.
O20.3.3.1 Jammed! Trigger—If a Fire Attack 
Roll results in a Jammed! trigger, all firing 
Weapons break. This does not cancel the 
attack nor otherwise reduce its effectiveness 

Fire Attack example:
A—The Axis player announces a Fire Order activating Sgt. Grein 
in hex K8. Grein then activates the Team and four Squads 
within his Command Radius. The Weapons are “activated” 
along with their controlling units [11.1]. Grein can’t activate Lt. 
Bolter [3.3.1.1].
B—The Light MG in K8 can’t fire, as it is manned by a broken 
unit [11.1]. The broken Squad can fire up to 3 hexes away, how-
ever, due to Grein’s Command [3.3.1.2].
C—A Fire Group is formed [O20.3.1] targeting hex M6 containing 
a US Squad. The German player decides to use the Rifle Squad 
in L8 as the base (6FP due to Bolter’s Command). To this is 
added +1 for each of the Squads in K8, J7 and J6, and the LMG 
in J6 [O20.3.1.2]. Grein doesn’t have enough Range to reach 
the target hex himself and the Mortar, being Ordnance, can’t 
participate in a Fire Group. Finally, +1 is added because at least 
one unit is firing downhill [T88.2] for a total of 11FP. This num-
ber is added to a Fire Attack Roll [O20.3.3] of 4•1 for an Attack 
Total of 16 (place the Attack Total marker in either space of the 
Victory Track labeled “16”).
D—The US Squad in the targeted hex must now make a Fire De-
fense Roll [O20.3.4] vs the 16 Attack Total. Its Morale is 5 (base 
6; -1 Cover for Open Ground containing a Road [T93]). This 
number is added to a die roll of 6•4 for a Defense Total of 15: 
a good roll but not quite enough to beat the Axis player’s total, 
and the American squad breaks [O20.3.4, first bullet].
E—The Axis player elects to have the Heavy MG make the next 
shot alone, firing at the same hex with the (now broken) US 
Squad. The MG has 9FP (8; +1 due to Bolter’s Command). The 
Axis player plays a Sustained Fire Action [A41] for +2FP, then 
another one [A24.1] for another +2FP. To this is added a Fire 
Attack Roll of 1•6—Event! for an Attack Total of 20, which is 
marked by placing the Attack Total marker in either “20” space 
of the Victory Track.
F—Play now pauses in order for the Event to resolve [1.9.1.1]: the 
Axis player reveals his next Fate Card and gets the Interdic-
tion Event [E60], allowing him to place a Suppressed marker 
[13] on the broken Squad he is firing at!
G—Play resumes. The targeted Squad’s Morale is now 6 (8; -1 
Road; -1 Suppressed) to which the Allied player adds a Fire 
Defense Roll of 1•2 for a Defense Total of only 9, eliminating 
it [3.2.4]. It is placed on the Casualty Track [4.2] and the Axis 
player gains 2 VPs [7.1].
H—The Mortar now fires at the US Team in N6. Being Ordnance 
[O20.2], it must first secure a hit before making a Fire Attack 
Roll. The distance to the target is 3 hexes so the Targeting Roll 
[O20.2.3] must be greater than 3, but the roll will be modified by 
-3 due to the intervening Smoke [10.3.1 and 10.3.4]. The Target-
ing Roll is 6•1 (“6” [O20.2.3]), modified down to 3, so the shot 
barely misses and no Fire Attack Roll is allowed. This shot 
would have hit had there been no Smoke (or only a “1” or “2” 
Smoke) in the way.
J—Finally, the only enemy-occupied hex within both Range and 
LOS of the activated German Team is hex N7 but, because the 
Smoke reduces its 2FP to -1FP [10.3.2], the attack cannot be 
made [10.3.2.1] without help from Actions.
Page 13
(other than the fact that Jammed! triggers 
are found on extremely low rolls...).
O20.3.4 Fire Defense Roll
A player has to make a Fire Defense Roll 
– one at a time in any order desired – for each 
of his units that were in a hex at the moment 
that a Fire Attack Roll was made against it. 
All Fire Defense Rolls for one attack must 
be made before the next attack is announced, 
even if that same hex will be targeted again.
Since a broken Leader has a Command of 
0, you generally want to roll Defense for a 
Leader last (in case it breaks) in order for 
the other units in the hex to gain the Morale 
boost from his Command.
A targeted unit’s Morale – modified by both 
Cover [T78.3] and Command [3.3.1.2] – is 
added to a die roll in order to arrive at a 
“Defense Total”:
If the Defense Total is less than the Attack 
Total, the unit breaks [3.2]. 
If the Defense Total is equal to the Attack 
Total, the unit becomes Suppressed [13] 
unless it is currently activated to Move 
[O21]—in which case it breaks instead of 
Suppressing. 
If the Defense Total is greater than the 
Attack Total, the unit is unaffected.
J

Page 14
O21. Move
“Fuehrer, we are on the march! Victorious 
Italian troops crossed the Greco-Albanian 
frontier at dawn today!”
—Benito Mussolini
Units that are activated to Move can move 
from hex to hex across the map, expending 
MPs in each new hex that they enter. A unit 
has as many MPs to spend during a Move 
Order as its current Movement number, 
which can be modified by Command [3.3.1.2] 
or by having entered a Road hex [T93], among 
other things.
O21.1 Movement Costs
Each terrain lists a “Move Cost”. In order to 
enter an adjacent hex during a Move Order, 
an activated unit must spend a number of 
MPs equal to the Move Cost of the terrain in 
that hex. Additional costs may be assessed if 
the unit crosses certain hexsides (a Wall, for 
example) or moves to a higher elevation. 
IMPORTANT: A unit may not enter a hex 
unless it has at least as many MPs remaining 
as the total cost to enter that hex.
Units without enough MPs to move even one 
hex – perhaps they are broken or carrying 
a heavy Weapon – will have to wait for an 
Advance (or Rout!) Order to get going.
O21.1.1 Weapon Transfer—At any point during 
a Move Order, an activated unit may transfer 
its Weapon to a friendly unit stacked with it 
by expending one of its available MPs. The 
receiving unit need not be activated to Move, 
but cannot already possess a Weapon.
O21.2 Moving Together
The movement of one unit must be completed 
in its entirety before another activated unit 
can begin moving. The one exception is that 
activated units that begin a Move Order in 
the same hex may be moved together pro-
vided those units remain together throughout 
the entirety of that Move Order.
Those units will therefore always end 
their movement in the same hex, and the 
unit with the smallest modified Movement 
number will determine how far the group 
as a whole can travel. If one of these units 
breaks along the way, it will usually stop 
the entire group dead in its tracks.
O21.3 Opportunity Fire & Movement
The inactive player may use Op Fire [A33] 
against the active player’s moving units each 
time they enter a new hex.
See the Op Fire example on page 16.
O21.4 Movement Restrictions
A moving unit may never:
enter an enemy-occupied hex;
enter an impassable hex [T79; T98];
cross a Cliff hexside [T83];
 enter or exit a Major Bridge hex across 
anything other than its Road/Rail hexsides 
[T80.1];
exit off the left, right or friendly map edge.
Exiting a unit off the enemy board edge, 
however, will gain you victory points [7.2.1].
O21.5 Movement Etiquette
Each time the active player moves a unit 
or group of units into a new hex, he should 
clearly announce the cumulative MP ex-
penditure up to that point, then pause for a 
second or two. This allows the inactive player 
a short time in which to decide whether to 
announce an Op Fire into that hex (or, if the 
Defender, to play a Mines [A35.2] or Wire 
[A35.5] Action).
Furthermore, it should be incumbent upon 
the inactive player to pay attention and say 
“Stop!” whenever he may have an Action to 
play or Fire Attack to make in response to 
the active player’s movement.
Moving players may want to get in the 
habit of asking “Actions?” after each hex 
entered; or maybe just pausing to make 
brief eye contact with the opponent.
O21.6 Timing & Movement
After each MP expenditure, the inactive play-
er must play all Actions that he wishes before 
the active player may play his first one. 
So if the moving player wanted to play a 
“Smoke Grenades” or “Assault Fire” Ac-
tion after entering a new hex, the inactive 
player would always be allowed to play a 
“Mines” or “Wire” Action first, and/or get to 
perform an Op Fire into that hex.
O22. Recover
“I don’t measure a man’s success by how high 
he climbs but how high he bounces when he 
hits bottom.”
O22.1 Activation
When a Recover Order is announced, that 
player selects himself to be “activated” 
provided he has at least one broken and/or 
Suppressed unit in play and he has not been 
activated for a Recover or Rout Order [O23] 
previously in the same Turn.
IMPORTANT—The broken/Suppressed units 
themselves are not activated during a Re-
cover Order: only the player himself is. 
Thus no more than one Recover could be 
played per Turn, as the player will have al-
ready been activated. Also, a unit affected 
by a Recover Order could be activated for 
that player’s next Order, or vice versa.
O22.2 Recover Procedure
First, the player taking the Recover Order 
removes all Suppressed markers from his 
friendly units.
Then, he makes a Rally Roll for each friendly 
unit that was broken at the time the Order 
was announced.
Units that become broken due to Events 
during a Recover Order don’t get to make 
a Rally Roll.
If the active player has more than one broken 
unit, he chooses the order in which those 
units will be affected.
O22.3 Rally Roll
A Rally Roll can have one of three effects on 
a broken unit: 
if the roll is less than its Morale, Rally it 
[3.2.5];
if the roll is equal to its current Morale, 
it becomes Suppressed [13] and remains 
broken;
if the roll is greater than its current Mo-
rale, there is no effect and the unit simply 
remains broken.
So for a broken unit with a current Morale 
of 7 – having already taken into account 
any Command and/or Cover modifiers – a 
Rally Roll of 5 would cause it to Rally; a 
Rally Roll of 7 would simply Suppress it; 
and a Rally Roll of 9 would have no effect.
You usually want to roll for your broken 
Leaders first—if they Rally, their increased 
Command will make Rallying more likely 
for other broken units in the same hex.
O23. Rout
“They’ve got us surrounded again, the poor 
bastards.”
—Creighton W. Abrams
O23.1 Activation
When a Rout Order is announced, that player 
selects a player to be “activated” (either 
himself or his opponent) provided the chosen 
player has at least one broken unit in play 
[3.2] and that player has not been activated 
for a Recover [O22] or Rout Order previously 
in the same Turn.
IMPORTANT—The broken units themselves 
are not activated during a Rout Order: only 
the player himself is. 
Thus no more than two Rout Orders could 
be played per Turn—one targeting each 
player. Also, a friendly unit that just had a 
Rout Roll made for it could be activated for 
that player’s next Order, or vice versa.

Page 15
O23.2 Rout Roll
The active player – that is, the one that an-
nounced the Order – makes a roll for each 
unit belonging to the chosen player that was 
broken at the time the Order was announced.
Units that become broken due to Events 
during a Rout Order can’t have a Rout Roll 
made for them.
If the chosen player has more than one bro-
ken unit, the active player chooses the order 
in which those units will be affected.
A Rout Roll can have one of three effects on 
a broken unit: 
if the roll is less than its Morale, there is 
no effect and the unit remains where it is.
if the roll is equal to its current Morale, it 
becomes Suppressed [13] if not already.
if the roll is greater than its current Mo-
rale, it must “Retreat” a number of hexes 
equal to the difference.
So for a broken unit with a current Morale 
of 7 – having already taken into account 
any Command and/or Cover modifiers – a 
Rout Roll of 9 means a Retreat of two hexes; 
a Rout Roll of 7 would simply Suppress it; 
and a Rout Roll of 5 would have no effect.
O23.3 Retreating
When a Rout Roll is greater than the broken 
unit’s Morale, it must Retreat a number 
of hexes equal to the difference. A player 
always Retreats his own units, even if his 
opponent gave the Rout Order. Each hex 
Retreated into must be closer to the control-
ling player’s board edge than the one it just 
left (in other words, there must be fewer 
intervening hexes between the unit and its 
friendly board edge in the hex it Retreats into 
than there are for the hex it Retreats out of). 
If already adjacent to its friendly board edge, 
the unit is eliminated (effectively retreating 
off the map).
O23.3.1 Terrain—MPs are not counted dur-
ing a Retreat, so all terrain Move Costs are 
ignored.
O23.3.2 Opportunity Fire—Op Fire is not per-
mitted against Retreating units.
O23.3.3 Wire—A Retreat is allowed into and 
out of Wire without having to stop.
O23.3.4 Mines—Mines attack Retreating units 
normally, both when they enter and/or leave 
a hex containing a Mines marker.
O23.3.5 Elimination—A Retreating unit is im-
mediately eliminated if it is forced to Retreat:
Off its owner’s friendly board edge;
Into an enemy-occupied hex (it surrenders 
to them);
Into an impassable hex [T79; T98];
Across a Cliff hexside [T83].
ACTIONS
“There are no absolute rules of conduct, ei-
ther in peace or war. Everything depends on 
circumstances.”
—Leon Trotsky
Make one Fire Attack with any number of your 
units/Weapons with boxed Firepower that are 
currently activated to Move.
ASSAULT FIRE
ACTION
A24. General Rules
A24.1—Actions may be announced by either 
player at any time via a Fate card played from 
the hand so long as that Action’s listed condi-
tion or prerequisite is met. Multiple Actions 
may be conducted in response to the same 
game situation. All effects of consecutively-
played Actions are cumulative.
A24.2 Timing—If both players wish to per-
form one or more Actions (including Op Fire) 
at the same time, the inactive player must 
perform all of his Actions before the active 
player may play his first one.
A24.3 Activation—With the sole exception 
of Op Fire [A33], Actions that affect units do 
not activate those units like an Order would. 
Conversely, a unit that has already been 
activated by an Order/Op Fire Action can 
be the target of any number of (non-Op Fire) 
Actions.
Except for A33 Opportunity Fire, the follow-
ing rules for individual Actions [A25–A41] 
need not be read and memorized your first 
time through the rules: most Actions are 
self-explanatory on the cards themselves. 
So this section can be safely ignored until 
the need arises for a clarification during 
actual game play. Actions are listed in 
alphabetical order for ease of reference.
A25. Ambush
“Always mystify, mislead and surprise the 
enemy if possible.”
—Thomas J. Jackson
Ambush may only be played before dice are 
rolled during a Melee. The Inactive player 
must play all the Ambushes he wishes for 
that Melee before the Active player may play 
his first one.
Effect—The opponent must select one of his 
units that is participating in the Melee and 
break it [3.2]. 
IMPORTANT—All Ambush effects are re-
solved before Melee FP is calculated.
Note that both players can announce Am-
bush Actions. Note also that it is possible 
for both sides to be entirely eliminated 
via Ambush before the Melee Rolls would 
otherwise have been made.
A26. Assault Fire
“In a man-to-man fight, the winner is he who 
has one more round in his magazine.”
Assault Fire may only be played if at least 
one unit currently activated to Move (or its 
Weapon) has both: 
boxed FP, and 
an enemy unit within its current Range 
and LOS at which to shoot.
Effect—Each Assault Fire Action allows a 
single Fire Attack to be made. This attack 
may form a Fire Group using any or all mov-
ing units and/or their Weapons that have 
boxed FP. The attack otherwise adheres to all 
rules and restrictions pertaining to a regular 
Fire Attack as if made during a Fire Order 
[O20].
Note that you may announce an Assault Fire 
Action before, during, or after any physical 
movement has been carried out—the firing 
pieces need only be activated to Move to 
utilize the Action.
A27. Bore Sighting
Bore Sighting may only be played by the 
scenario Defender – never an Attack or Re-
con player – and only just prior to making a 
Fire Attack Roll involving a firing Weapon 
with a printed FP of at least “5” (before any 
modifications).
A28. Command Confusion
This card cannot be played for an Action.
Hope that you have a decent Order on this 
card.
A29. Concealment
Concealment may only be played just prior to 
the player making a Defense Roll.
Effect—Determine the Cover in the targeted 
hex and reduce the Fire Attack Total by that 
amount. If the firing player is using Spray 
Fire [A40], the Cover of either one of the 
targeted hexes may be used. All Cover modi-
fiers – such as for Roads [T93] or a Mortar 
attacking units in Foxholes [F102] – are taken 
into consideration before reducing.
Yes, Concealment is used after the targeted 
player knows the attack total. Maybe the 
firer only thought he saw gun flashes be-
tween those trees…
A30. Crossfire
Crossfire may only be played just prior to the 
player making a Fire Attack Roll, and only 
when firing at one or more moving [O21] units.

Movement / Opportunity Fire example:
A—The Axis player announces a Move Order activating the German Rifle Squad in hex L8. He 
Moves it into K8 and announces “two” (1MP for Open Ground; +1 moving uphill [T88.1]).
B—The Allied player has a Fire Order/Action in hand but (correctly) surmises that LOS to K8 is 
blocked by the Crest Line in K7 [T88.3.2] so he declines Opportunity Fire [A33]. “Go ahead.”
C—Axis player plays a Smoke Grenades Action [A39] and announces that he will place it in 
hex K7. He randomly draws a “4” Smoke marker and places it there.
D—Axis player announces “three” (1MP for Open Ground; +2 already spent) as he continues the 
Rifle Squad’s movement into K7.
E—Allied player says “Wait!” and plays the Fire Action [A33.1] from his hand, activating the 
American Squad in L5. Unfortunately, its FP firing into K7 is only 1 (6; -1 uphill; -4 Smoke). 
This FP is added to a roll of 6•5, however, for a Fire Attack Total of 12. The shot affects both 
units in the target hex [O20.3.4], not just the moving unit. The Axis player makes a Fire De-
fense Roll for his 8-Morale Squad (7; +1 for Biermann’s Command)—rolling 6•2—then his 
8-Morale Leader—rolling 1•5; both units are unaffected and there are no die triggers.
F—The Rifle Squad’s Movement is now 5 due to Biermann’s Command [3.3.1.2], so the Axis 
player announces “five” to enter K6 (2MP for Woods; +3 already spent). 
G—Allied player says “Wait” and immediately declares a subsequent shot with his Line Squad 
[A33.3] into K6, adding two Grenade Actions [A34] from his hand. This gives him 9FP (6; 
+4 Grenades; -1 uphill). He then rolls a 1•3, which gives him an Attack Total of 13. The Rifle 
Squad adds its Morale of 9 (7; +2 Woods) to a roll of 6•3 and easily passes. 
H—Having left Biermann’s hex, the Rifle Squad’s Movement becomes 4 again and, since it has 
already spent 5 MP, is now done for the Turn barring any further Actions.
NOTE—If a second Move Order was then announced by the Axis player activating Sergeant 
Biermann, the US Squad in L5 could not fire at him as he moved [see A33.2, second bullet, and 
the first gray box of A33.3].
Page 16
A31. Demolitions
Demolitions may only be played when the 
opponent discards one or more cards due to 
“passing” [O15].
Involuntary discards due to an Event [E57 
and E61] don’t count.
Effect—Eliminate one Fortification in any 
hex containing a friendly unit.
A32. Dig In
Dig In may only be played at the end of a 
Game Time Advancement [6.1.2].
Effect—Place a Foxholes marker [F102] into 
a hex containing a friendly unit. The hex 
cannot be Water Terrain, and can’t already 
contain a Blaze or another Fortification of 
any type.
A33. Fire (Opportunity Fire)
“No plan of battle ever survives contact with 
the enemy.”
—Heinz Guderian
FIRE
ORDER / ACTION
A33.1 Prerequisite
A Fire Action may only be played during an 
opponent’s Move Order, and only just after 
the expenditure of one or more MPs as a 
moving unit enters a new hex. This type of 
reactionary fire is termed “Op Fire”.
Note that Fire Actions are listed across 
the top of any Fate card that has one, in 
the same position as for a Fire Order. As 
a reminder of its dual capability, the word 
“Fire” will, when appearing along the top 
of a Fate card, always be preceded by the 
words “Order/Action”.
A33.2 Op Fire Procedure
Generally, when the active player is perform-
ing a Move Order, he should count aloud 
his units’ accumulated MP expenditure in 
each hex as it is entered. Each time such an 
expenditure is made, the inactive player has 
the option to call out “Wait!” and temporarily 
halt movement. If he does, he may choose to 
do either or both of the following:
play a Fire Action from his hand and ac-
tivate one or more units to fire at that hex 
(exactly as if he were activating units for a 
Fire Order [O14.1 & O20.1]); and/or
make one Fire Attack against that hex with 
any of his units that were activated for Op 
Fire at any point during this same Move 
Order. 
After any such Fire Attack is made – or the 
opportunity to do so is declined (“Never 
mind; keep moving”) – the active player may 
continue with his Move Order.
A33.3 Op Fire Exceptions
Units (and their Weapons) that are activated 
for Op Fire follow all normal rules for a Fire 
Order [O20], with three important exceptions:
1) An Ordnance Weapon [11.5] cannot utilize 
Opportunity Fire (though the unit pos-
sessing it may fire normally).
2) They are not limited to only firing once, 
and so remain activated and eligible to 
fire at moving targets for the entirety of 
that Move Order (only).
Note that units are activated for Op Fire, 
so they could not be activated for Op Fire 
again in that same Turn if the active player 
announced another Move Order.
3) No more than one Fire Attack may be 
made by the inactive player per MP 
expenditure by the active player.
A unit entering a Stream expends 3 MPs 
to do so, but this is only one expenditure 
(albeit a large one). So moving into a 
hex – however costly – is always a single 
expenditure of X MPs and can draw one 
Op Fire attack against it. If another unit 
later moved into that Stream hex in the 
same Move Order, it could be the target of 
another Op Fire attack—even by the same 
op-firing unit(s).

Page 17
A34. Hand Grenades
“Mr. Hand Grenade is your friend.” 
—Lt. Dave Farrow, 82nd Airborne 
Hand Grenades may only be played just prior 
to the player making a Fire Attack Roll, and 
only if at least one piece is firing at an adja-
cent hex.
In the case of a multi-hex Fire Group, only 
one of those hexes need be adjacent to the 
targeted hex.
A35. Hidden (name)
“War brings about strange, sometimes ridicu-
lous situations.”
—Dwight D. Eisenhower
IMPORTANT—The following five “Hidden” 
Actions may only be played by the scenario 
Defender—never an Attack or Recon player.
A35.1 Hidden Entrenchments
Hidden Entrenchments may only be played 
just prior to the scenario Defender making a 
Defense Roll. The hex affected by the attack 
cannot be a Building or Water hex, nor al-
ready contain a Fortification of any type.
Effect—Place a Foxholes marker [F102] into 
that hex. 
A35.2 Hidden Mines
Hidden Mines may only be played by the sce-
nario Defender just after one or more units 
Move or Advance (not Retreat) into a hex. 
That hex cannot be Water Terrain nor already 
contain a Fortification of any type.
Effect—Place a Mines marker [F103] into that 
hex. The Defender then makes a Mine Attack 
[F103.2] against each of those moving/advanc-
ing units.
Any unit that was already in the hex would 
be immune to this initial minefield attack.
A35.3 Hidden Pillbox
Hidden Pillbox may only be played just prior 
to the scenario Defender making a Defense 
Roll for an attack against an Objective hex 
and only if the Pillbox is not already in play. 
The targeted hex cannot be Water Terrain nor 
already contain a Fortification of any type.
Effect—Place the Pillbox marker [F104] into 
that hex.
A35.4 Hidden Unit
Hidden Unit may only be played when the 
opponent discards one or more cards due to 
“passing” [O15].
Involuntary discards due to an Event [E57 
and E61] don’t count.
Effect—The scenario Defender performs the 
following steps in the order shown:
1) make a roll on his nation’s Support Table;
one non-Radio item – at no cost – that is 
available for that scenario’s year;
3) Place the selected unit (along with 
its Weapon, if any) into any hex that 
is: within his original set-up area; and 
contains no units of either side; and has a 
Cover of at least 1.
A35.5 Hidden Wire
“!*@&#^$% wire.” 
—anonymous playtester 
Hidden Wire may only be played by the sce-
nario Defender just after one or more units 
Move or Advance (not Retreat) into a hex. 
That hex cannot be Water Terrain nor already 
contain a Fortification of any type.
Effect—Place a Wire marker [F106] into that 
Note that this will end a unit’s Move, as a 
unit must spend all its movement points in 
order to move out of a Wire hex and it had 
to have spent at least one to get in.
A36. Light Wounds
“Medic!”
Light Wounds may only be played at the in-
stant that a friendly Squad – either broken or 
unbroken – would break [3.2].
Light Wounds can only be used on a Squad 
that is breaking, not one that is being 
eliminated outright—like via the KIA Event 
or as a result of a lost Melee.
Effect—Lose 1 VP. Then, instead of that 
Squad breaking (or instead of it being elimi-
nated due to already being broken), place it 
back into the countermix, retrieving a Team 
from the countermix – of the same quality as 
that player’s OB: either Green, Line or Elite 
– and placing it into the hex from which the 
Squad was taken.
If the Squad was broken when it was re-
moved, the replacement Team comes into 
play broken. If there was a Weapon, Sup-
pressed or Veteran marker on the Squad, the 
Team retains the marker. Finally, the new 
Team’s activation status for the Turn matches 
that of the Squad it replaced.
A37. Marksmanship
“Untutored courage is useless in the face of 
educated bullets.”
Marksmanship may only be played just prior 
to the player making a Fire Attack Roll. The 
attack must include a firing Squad or Team of 
the indicated nationality.
A38. No Quarter
No Quarter may only be played at the conclu-
sion of a Melee by a German player if the 
opponent is playing Russia, or by a Russian 
player regardless of the opponent’s national-
ity. No Quarter may only be played if the 
player had at least one unit survive the Melee.
Effect—The player gains 2 VPs.
A39. Smoke Grenades
Smoke Grenades may only be used by a unit 
with boxed Movement, and must be played 
while that unit is activated to Move.
Effect—Select one Smoke marker at random 
and place it in or adjacent to that unit’s hex, 
provided that hex is not Water Terrain nor 
already contains a Blaze.
And remember that two or more Smoke 
markers won’t stack together; so after 
placing Smoke into Smoke, only the marker 
with the largest Hindrance will remain.
A40. Spray Fire
Spray Fire may only be played just prior to 
the player making a Fire Attack Roll. All fir-
ing pieces must have boxed Range. The two 
targeted hexes must each: 
be within Range of all firing pieces;
be adjacent to one another;
contain an enemy unit.
For determining possible Obstacles and Hin-
drances in intervening hexes, LOS must be 
checked from all firing pieces to both hexes.
Note that Spray Fire is not cumulative: It 
reads “2 hexes” not “an additional hex”.
Effect—The Fire attack will affect both tar-
geted hexes simultaneously. Only one Fire 
Attack Roll is made, though all units in both 
hexes must make Fire Defense Rolls based on 
that single Attack Total. 
You may want to think of the two adjacent 
hexes as one big hex that just happens to 
have two LOS dots, possibly with different 
Cover affecting different defending units.
A41. Sustained Fire
Sustained Fire may only be played just prior 
to the player making a Fire Attack Roll in 
which at least one Mortar or MG is firing.
Effect—Increase the Fire Attack’s FP by +2 
but, if the Fire Attack Roll ends up “doubles”, 
one firing Mortar or Machine Gun must 
break (firing player’s choice if more than one).
Be careful with this one—Sustained Fire’s 
drawback is cumulative with other Sus-
tained Fires and/or with Jammed!, which 
could cause a Weapon to break then imme-
diately break again, eliminating it outright.

Page 18
EVENTS
“Once again, it was a tactical situation which 
was beyond my capacity to envisage, but 
which just had to be accepted since it was 
there—along with all the other unexpected 
and apparently impossible situations which 
had confronted us throughout the campaign 
and which were dealt with or avoided on the 
spur of the moment.”
—Major Robert Crisp, Brazen Chariots
Place Foxholes in a random hex.
Shellholes
EVENT
E42. General Rules
Events are never played from the hand: they 
only occur via certain rolls, whereupon nor-
mal game play immediately pauses so that 
that player can reveal the top card of his Fate 
Deck then read aloud and execute the listed 
Event.
IMPORTANT—
Ignore any portion of an Event that is 
impossible to fulfill given current game 
conditions, while performing those parts 
that are possible, if any. 
When an Event lists more than one activity 
to perform, they are performed in the order 
stated within the Event itself.
Die triggers are always ignored during any 
die roll occurring during an Event.
The following rules for individual Events 
[E43–E77] need not be read your first time 
through the rules. Most Events are self-
explanatory on the Fate cards themselves, 
so this section can be safely ignored until 
the need arises for a clarification during 
actual game play.
The various Events are described in detail, 
below, and are listed in alphabetical order 
for ease of reference.
E43. Air Support
“Airplanes are interesting toys, but of no 
military value.”
must determine a Random Hex [1.8]: If this 
hex contains one or more units, he may 
choose to break all those units. If the random 
hex is devoid of units, the closest hex to it 
that does contain one or more units (friendly 
or enemy) is affected instead: he may break 
all units in that hex. In case of a tie for clos-
est occupied hex, the player drawing the 
Event chooses which will be affected.
E44. Battle Harden
“Americans love to fight. All real Americans 
love the sting of battle.”
selects one of his units without a Veteran 
marker and places a Veteran marker on it.
E44.1 Veteran Marker
Effects—A unit with a Veteran 
marker on it has +1 FP, +1 Range, 
+1 Movement and +1 Morale. 
Command is unaffected by Vet-
eran status.
Removal—A Veteran marker remains on a 
unit unless and until the unit is eliminated or 
exits the map. A Veteran Squad that Deploys 
[E52] transfers its Veteran status to only one 
of the two replacing Teams.
E45. Battlefield Integrity
counts the total number of enemy units on 
the Casualty Track then gains that many VPs.
E46. Blaze
hex is not Water Terrain and does not al-
ready contain a Blaze, place a random Blaze 
marker [10.2.1] into it. Remove any Smoke 
or Fortification marker from the hex. Each 
unit in the hex must be removed by its owner 
and placed into an adjacent hex not contain-
ing impassable terrain (inactive player first). 
They are eliminated otherwise.
E47. Booby Trap
“Do not touch anything unnecessarily. 
Beware of pretty girls in dance halls and 
parks who may be spies, as well as bicycles, 
revolvers, uniforms, arms, dead horses, and 
men lying on roads—they are not there 
accidentally.”
—Soviet infantry manual, circa mid-1930’s
place a Mines marker into it [F103].
Units already in the hex will not be affected 
by the Mines unless and until they Move/
Advance/Retreat out of it.
E48. Breeze
When this Event occurs, remove all Smoke 
markers from the map. Then place a random 
Blaze marker [10.2.1] into each non-Water hex 
that is both adjacent to and “downwind” of 
an existing Blaze marker. The downwind 
direction is stated in the Event as a number 
between 1 and 6, which corresponds to the 
hex compass on each map. Any units in a hex 
into which a Blaze spreads must be removed 
by their owners and placed into any adjacent 
hex not containing impassable terrain. They 
are eliminated otherwise.
E49. Command & Control
“Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.”
counts the number of Objectives [2.3] he cur-
rently controls and gains that many VPs.
E50. Commissar
“It takes a very brave man not to become a 
Hero of the Soviet Union.”
—Josef Stalin
When this Event occurs, the Russian player 
must select one of his broken units [3.2] and 
make a roll for it: 
If the roll is greater than its Morale, it is 
eliminated.
If the roll is less than or equal to its Mo-
rale, it Rallies [3.2.5].
E51. Cower
“In battle the unusual is met usually, and 
the abnormal becomes the normal. Soldiers 
may act like lions and then like scared hares 
within the passage of a few minutes.”
—S.L.A. Marshall
must place a Suppressed marker [13] on each 
of his friendly Squads without one that is 
currently outside the Command Radius 
[3.3.1.1] of a friendly Leader.
E52. Deploy
“Listen up! I need five volunteers.”
E52.1—When this Event occurs, the active 
player may select one friendly Squad on the 
map. If he does, the Squad is removed from 
its hex, placed back in the countermix, and 
replaced with two Teams of the same quality 
(Green, Line or Elite) as that player’s OB.
E52.2—These Teams enter play broken if 
the Squad was broken [3.2]. If there was a 
Weapon, Suppressed and/or Veteran marker 
on the Squad, only one of the two Teams 
retains the marker. Finally, these Teams are 
treated as being the same unit from which 
they were created—so if the Squad had been 
activated for an Order previously that Turn, 
they are considered to have been activated 
as well; and any pending results against the 
Squad (such as becoming Suppressed, broken 
or eliminated) will immediately affect both 
Teams equally.

Page 19
Turning one Squad into two Teams gives 
you a bit more flexibility in movement, 
stacking, and garrisoning Objectives—and 
can also increase your net FP when part 
of a larger Fire Group. The drawback is 
usually weaker stats, the loss of boxed stats, 
and – because there are two where once 
there was one – they become harder to 
control without a friendly Leader nearby.
E53. Dust
“I couldn’t see my hand in front of my face. 
Lucky for me, the enemy couldn’t see my 
hand in front of my face, either.”
—Private Adamson
hex is not Water Terrain and doesn’t already 
contain a Blaze marker, he selects a random 
Smoke marker and places it there.
E54. Élan
“Either I will find a way, or I will make one.”
—Philip Sidney
moves his Surrender marker into the next 
higher space on his side of the Casualty 
Track.
E55. Entrench
When this Event occurs, the receiving 
player may place a Foxholes marker into any 
friendly-occupied, non-Water hex not already 
containing a Fortification.
E56. Field Promotion
“The officers of the Italian 
Army are not qualified for the 
job.”
—Count Galeazzo Ciano
When this Event occurs, if not 
already on the map, the receiving player may 
place his nation’s “Private” (the one with “6” 
Morale and “2” Command) into a hex occu-
pied by one of his broken units [3.2].
E57. Fog of War
“Battle is an orgy of disorder.”
When this Event occurs, each player selects 
one card at random from the opposing 
player’s hand. Those cards are placed in their 
owners’ respective discard piles.
E58. Hero
“A true knight is fuller of bravery in the midst, 
than in the beginning of danger.”
—Philip Sidney
When this Event occurs, if the receiving 
player’s Hero unit [E58.1] is not already on the 
map, he must place it into any friendly hex. If 
he does, he may Rally [3.2.5] one broken unit 
in that placement hex.
E58.1 Heroes
Heroes are Leaders [3.3] in every respect, 
with two exceptions:
A Hero never earns its owner exit VPs nor 
does the opponent ever gain VPs for its 
elimination. An exited/eliminated Hero is 
always put back in the countermix, never 
onto the Casualty Track.
A Hero may be activated more than once 
per Turn, thus allowing it to perform more 
than one Order per Turn.
Heroes enjoy running full speed up an open 
road towards an Objective hex. They also 
love to charge machine gun nests in order 
to take them out in close combat. Other 
useful tasks for Heroes will no doubt be 
discovered by the player well-versed in 
Hollywood war movies.
E59. Infiltration
“When I began to use my cricket, the first man 
I met in the darkness I thought was a Ger-
man until he cricketed. We threw our arms 
around each other, and from that moment I 
knew we had won the war.”
—Maxwell D. Taylor
performs the following steps:
1) Make a roll on his nation’s Support Table;
one non-Radio item – at no cost – that is 
available for that scenario’s year;
3) Determine a Random Hex [1.8];
4) Place the selected unit (along with its 
Weapon, if any) in or adjacent to that 
hex. Stacking limits [8] must be observed, 
and the unit cannot be placed in an 
impassable hex (such as a Blaze or Water 
Barrier).
E60. Interdiction
“Mussolini is quite humiliated because our 
troops have not moved a step forward. Even 
today they have not succeeded in advancing 
and have halted in front of the first French 
fortification which put up some resistance.”
—Count Galeazzo Ciano
must select one unsuppressed unit (enemy or 
friendly; broken or unbroken) that occupies 
a hex with Cover less than 1 and put a Sup-
pressed marker [13] on it.
E61. Interrogation
“‘Counter intelligence’ means that you hope 
you’re smarter than your adversary but won’t 
know for certain unless one of you ends up 
dead.”
When this Event occurs, the opposing player 
must show the receiving player all the cards 
in his hand. The receiving player may choose 
one of those cards. If he does, that card is 
placed in the opponent’s discard pile.
E62. KIA
must select one broken unit (enemy or friend-
ly) and eliminate it.
E63. Malfunction
“Every regiment had already lost 500 men to 
frostbite … the machine guns were no longer 
able to fire.”
—Heinz Guderian
must determine a Random Hex [1.8]. The 
unbroken Weapon (enemy or friendly) that is 
closest to that hex breaks. In case of a tie, the 
player drawing the Event chooses which will 
be affected.
E64. Medic!
“No guts, no glory.”
must select one broken unit (enemy or friend-
ly) and Rally it [3.2.5].
E65. Mission Objective
“Don’t fight a battle if you don’t gain anything 
by winning.”
draws one (secret) Objective chit at random.
This new Objective chit does not replace 
any existing Objective chit – it is used in 
conjunction with them – and may be kept 
secret from the opponent unless it is one 
that has no “(secret)” side.
E66. Prisoners of War
“We shall show mercy, but we shall not ask 
for it.”
—Winston Churchill
must select one of his own broken units [3.2] 
that is adjacent to or in the same hex as an 
enemy unit and eliminate it.
If it somehow wasn’t a good idea before, try 
to keep your broken units far away from 
enemy units.

Page 20
 E67. Reconnaissance
“Many intelligence reports in war are contra-
dictory; even more are false, and most are 
uncertain.”
—Karl von Clausewitz
When this Event occurs, the opposing player 
must select and reveal one of his unrevealed 
secret Objective chits, if any. The revealed 
chit becomes an open Objective for the re-
mainder of the game.
Remember to award any VPs correspond-
ing to that chit’s mapboard Objective(s) to 
their current controller right away.
E68. Reinforcements
“If the General insists on my counterattacking 
immediately then I must insist on receiving 
some armor and artillery assets sooner than 
immediately.”
—Colonel Melvin Hale
performs the following steps:
1) Make a roll on his nation’s Support Table;
one item – at no cost – that is available for 
that scenario’s year;
3) If a Radio is selected, he places it in 
his (empty) Artillery Box. If a unit is 
selected, he places it (along with its 
Weapon, if any) into any hex along his 
friendly board edge. Stacking limits [8] 
must be observed, and the unit cannot be 
placed in an impassable hex (such as a 
Blaze or Water Barrier).
E69. Rubble
place a Wire marker into it [F106].
E70. Sappers
may remove either one Mines marker or one 
Wire marker from the map.
E71. Scrounge
may select one eliminated Weapon (enemy or 
friendly) from the Casualty Track and return 
that Weapon to play under the control of one 
of his units currently without a Weapon.
E72. Shell Shock
must determine a Random Hex [1.8]. The unit 
(enemy or friendly) that is closest to that hex 
breaks [3.2]. In case of a tie for closest unit, 
the player drawing the Event chooses which 
will be affected.
E73. Shellholes
place a Foxholes marker into it [F102].
E74. Strategic Objective
When this Event occurs, one Objective chit is 
drawn at random and placed face up (“open”) 
in the center section of the Objectives box for 
both players to see. 
This new Objective chit does not replace 
an existing Objective chit—it is used in 
conjunction with them. And if this new chit 
references one or more mapboard Objec-
tives, remember to award those victory 
points to the Objectives’ current controller 
right away.
E75. Suppressing Fire
When this Event occurs, the 
receiving player may place 
a Suppression marker [13] 
on one enemy unit without 
one. The chosen enemy unit must be within 
both the current Range and LOS of one of the 
receiving player’s unbroken MGs possessed 
by an unbroken, unsuppressed friendly unit.
E76. Walking Wounded
“With amazement and disappointment, we 
discovered in late October and early Novem-
ber that the beaten Russians seemed quite 
unaware that as a military force they had 
almost ceased to exist.”
—General Blumentritt
must perform the following steps:
1) Select one eliminated unit (enemy or 
friendly) on the Casualty Track;
2) Determine a Random Hex;
3) Place the selected unit in or adjacent to 
that hex, broken [3.2]. Stacking limits [8] 
must be observed, and the unit cannot be 
placed in an impassable hex (such as a 
Blaze or Water Barrier).
E77. White Phosphorus
may draw a random Smoke marker then 
place it into a hex adjacent to one of his 
unbroken Squads (only). The selected hex 
cannot be Water Terrain nor contain a Blaze. 
If he does, each player that controls a unit in 
that hex must choose one such friendly unit 
and break it [3.2].
TERRAIN
“The roads that were nice and red and thick 
on the map turned out to be tracks.”
—Gerd von Rundstedt
T78. General Rules
Your first time through the rules, you really 
only need to read the four sections that fol-
low for Types, Movement, Cover and LOS. 
The many Hill rules, as well as those for 
the other individual terrain types [T79–T99], 
can then be referred to as needed depend-
ing on which map is in use for a particular 
scenario.
T78.1 Types & Features
Every hex on every map in Combat Com-
mander is defined by what “terrain type” it 
contains. A hex’s terrain type is the one 
that is predominant within it, be it Woods, 
a Building, or Brush, for example. Some 
hexsides also contain terrain that can affect 
fire or movement, such as a Cliff, Fence, Wall 
or Hedge. Roads, Railroads and Trails can 
also occupy a hex, usually modifying a unit’s 
movement therein. Smoke and Blaze markers 
also function as terrain to a certain degree.
Terrain “types” are shown on the Terrain 
Chart with green backgrounds. Terrain “fea-
tures” are shown with tan backgrounds and 
will generally only modify the terrain type 
they share a hex with.
The Terrain Chart lists the various types of 
terrain in hierarchical order—that is, if a hex 
contains two different terrain types, the one 
shown closest to the top of the chart takes 
precedence. 
So for example a Major Bridge over a 
Stream is a “Major Bridge hex” for all 
purposes, not a “Stream hex” (and thus not 
a Water hex, either). This also means that 
a hex is an “Open Ground hex” only if it 
contains none of the terrain types shown 
above it (those with their text on a green 
background)—it could contain any of the 
terrain features shown below it (those on 
a tan background) and still be an “Open 
Ground hex”, albeit with some sort of 
modification.
T78.2 Move Costs
Each terrain lists a “Move Cost” which is the 
amount of MPs a unit must expend to Move 
[O21] into that hex or across that hexside.
T78.3 Cover
Each terrain lists a “Cover” in the form of 
a whole number, which may be negative. At 
all times and for all purposes, Cover directly 
modifies the Morale of every unit in the same 
hex. Cover is never cumulative, however, so 
a player must choose only one instance of 
Cover to apply if more than one is present.

Page 21
A Team has a printed Morale of 7. If it occu-
pied a Brush hex, its Morale would be 8 (7; 
+1 for the Cover of the Brush). If an enemy 
Squad shoots at the Team across a Wall 
hexside, the Team can choose to instead use 
the (alternate) 2 Cover of the Wall, giving it 
a Morale of 9 for that attack. If that Team 
was stacked with a Foxholes marker, the 
owning player could choose to ignore both 
the 1 Cover of the Brush and the 2 Cover of 
the Wall and instead add the 3 Cover of the 
Foxholes, giving it 10 Morale.
T78.4 LOS
Each terrain lists whether it is an Obstacle, 
Hindrance or Clear. 
Obstacles block same-level LOS. Obsta-
cles usually create one Blind Hex [T88.4.1] 
to a higher-level observer.
Hindrances reduce the FP of same-level 
fire attacks traced through them.
Clear terrain has no affect on LOS. 
See the LOS rules [10] for more detail.
The various types of terrain are described in 
detail, below, and are listed in alphabetical 
order for ease of reference. The informa-
tion that follows is also shown graphically 
on the Terrain Chart located on one side of 
the player aid sheet.
T79. Blaze
MOVE COST: Impassable
COVER: Impassable
LOS: Obstacle (at all levels)
T80. Bridge
MOVE COST: (see below)
COVER: 2; but note that a Road [T93] will usu-
ally drop this to a net Cover of 1
T80.1 Major Bridge
A Major Bridge is defined as 
one that spans the entirety 
of one or more hexes, with 
a small part of it extending 
across its outermost hexsides into opposite 
(non-Bridge) hexes.
MOVE COST: Impassable; or 1 if directly 
along the Road / Railway depiction. Also, 
units can only leave a Major Bridge hex via 
one of its two Road / Railway hexsides.
T80.2 Minor Bridge
A Minor Bridge is defined as 
one that lies entirely within 
the confines of a single hex.
MOVE COST: 1 if traversing a Road / Railway 
hexside; otherwise use the cost of the other 
terrain in the hex.
T81. Brush
COVER: 1
LOS: 3 Hindrance
T82. Building
COVER: 3
LOS: Obstacle; creates one Blind Hex [T88.4.1]
Building Objectives—If a mapboard Objective 
[2.3] occupies a building hex, and that build-
ing spans two or more hexes, the “Objective” 
is considered to be the entirety of that build-
ing (that is, every hex that it occupies), not 
just the hex containing the Objective number.
T83. Cliff
MOVE COST: Impassable;
CLIMBING: a unit without a Weapon may Ad-
vance [O16] across a Cliff hexside.
COVER: none
T84. Fence
COVER: none
LOS: 1 Hindrance; or Clear if the Fence is one 
of the six hexsides of the sighting or target 
T85. Field
T86. Gully
COVER: 1; though a unit in a Gully cannot be 
seen except from an adjacent hex or a hex at 
a higher elevation [T88], and vice versa.
T87. Hedge
COVER: none; or 1 if a Fire Attack crossed 
the Hedge as it entered the target hex (not 
applicable when defending against Mortars 
or Artillery).
LOS: Obstacle; or Clear if the Hedge is one of 
the six hexsides of the sighting or target hex.
T88. Hills
Due to the relative complexity of Hills, new 
players may want to play their first few 
scenarios on those boards without Hills.
The standard buff-colored Open Ground 
hex in Combat Commander is said to be at 
level “0” or “ground level”. Hills can then be 
thought of as being at levels 1 (tan), 2 (light 
brown), 3 (medium brown) or 4 (dark brown). 
Therefore, a unit on a Hill is above any ter-
rain occupying either a ground-level hex or 
a Hill hex of a lower level. A Hill hex func-
tions exactly like any other ground level hex 
except as modified below.
T88.1 Uphill Movement
A moving unit must expend +1 MP in order 
to enter a hex at a higher elevation than the 
one it is leaving. 
A unit moving from a level 1 Hill hex 
containing Woods to a level 2 Hill hex 
containing Woods must expend 3 MPs 
(2 for the Woods plus 1 for the change in 
elevation). The reverse “downhill” move 
would cost only 2 MP.
T88.2 Height Advantage
A Fire Attack suffers -1 FP if the target hex 
is at a higher elevation than any one firing 
piece. Conversely, a Fire Attack gains +1 FP 
if the target hex is at a lower elevation than 
any one firing piece. 
T88.3 Hills & LOS
T88.3.1 Military Crest Lines
A hex showing more than one level is termed 
a “Crest” hex. The level at which a Crest 
hex’s center dot lies is its actual level. In 
every Crest hex, the physical edge of the 
higher-level Hill is termed the “Crest Line”.
T88.3.2 Vertical LOS
A unit may only trace a LOS into the initial 
Crest hex of each elevation above it. Like-
wise, a unit on a Hill may trace a LOS to 
a hex at a lower elevation only if that LOS 
never passes through a Crest Line of equal or 
greater height in an intervening hex.
So unit A on a Hill can see unit B at a lower 
elevation only if the LOS from unit A both: 
crosses a Crest Line before it crosses a 
hexside; and never again crosses a Crest 
Line of the same or higher elevation.
T88.3.3 Hills as “Obstacles”
A Hill itself blocks LOS traced between any 
two hexes of lower elevation.
A unit on a level 2 Hill can see past an 
intervening level 2 Hill only to another Hill 
of height 2, 3 or 4. If that intervening Hill 
were level 3 instead, the target hex would 
have to be at level 4 to be seen (and even 
then it would have to be a level 4 Crest).
T88.4 Hills & Obstacles
The LOS to or from a Hill hex is blocked 
only if it clearly touches any part of the 
physical depiction of an Obstacle at the 
same or higher elevation as that Hill hex. In 
other words, LOS to or from a Hill hex is not 
blocked by Obstacles that lie at a lower eleva-
tion (exception: see Blind Hexes, below).

Page 22
A unit on a level 1 Hill can see past (over) 
an intervening building at level 0 to another 
unit on a distant level 1 Hill. If the building 
were also on a Hill, however, that LOS 
would be blocked.
A Blaze marker, however, always blocks LOS 
through its hex, regardless of the sighter’s or 
target’s elevation.
The obstacle that a Blaze marker creates 
is considered to be at a height sufficient 
enough to affect any possible LOS that can 
be represented in the game.
T88.4.1 Blind Hexes
A unit on a Hill can see into a lower-level 
Woods or Building hex, as normal, but can 
not see into the next hex beyond it if that 
next hex is also at or lower than the Woods/
Building hex’s elevation. In other words, a 
lower-level Woods or Building creates a 
one-hex blind zone behind it to an observer 
at a higher elevation—all hexes beyond this 
blind zone are visible from the Hill (barring 
further Woods/Buildings along the way).
A unit on a level 1 Hill can see past a level 0 
building except into the level 0 hex directly 
behind it. Conversely, a unit on a level 1 
Hill could see past an intervening level 1 
building to a unit at level 2 or higher unless 
that building was in the first intervening 
hex along that LOS.
T88.5 Hills & Hindrances
Any mapboard Hindrance terrain that is 
at a lower level does not hinder LOS to or 
from a Hill hex. A Hindrance on a Hill does 
hinder LOS between two other Hill hexes at 
the same level as that Hindrance. A Smoke 
marker, however, always hinders LOS 
through its hex, regardless of the sighter’s or 
target’s elevation.
The hindrance that a Smoke marker creates 
is considered to be at a height sufficient 
enough to affect any possible LOS that can 
be represented in the game.
Note that all the above Hill rules are 
based upon the premise that in Combat 
Commander each Hill elevation is taller 
than a mapboard Obstacle, and every map-
board Obstacle is taller than a mapboard 
Hindrance.
T89. Marsh
MOVE COST: 3
WATER TERRAIN: No Weapon of any kind 
may fire from a Marsh hex. No Blaze, Smoke 
or Fortification of any kind may ever occupy 
a Marsh hex.
T90. Open Ground
T91. Orchard
COVER: 1
LOS: 2 Hindrance
T92. Railway
MOVE COST: 1 if travelling along the Railway 
depiction (that is, the moving unit crossed a 
Railway hexside as it entered the hex); other-
wise depends on other terrain in the hex.
LOS: 1 Hindrance; or Clear if the LOS pro-
ceeds directly along the Railway depiction.
T93. Road
MOVE COST: 1 if travelling along the Road 
depiction (that is, the moving unit crossed 
a Road hexside as it entered the hex); other-
wise, it depends on the other terrain in the 
A unit gains +1 to its Movement number as 
long as it entered a hex containing a Road at 
any point during a Move Order. This bonus 
ceases at the conclusion of that Move Order.
The unit need not have entered the Road hex 
via a road hexside to gain the bonus—here 
we can assume that crossing a road is also 
quick and easy to do.
COVER: none; however, the Cover of any 
other Fortification or Terrain within a hex 
containing a Road is decreased by 1.
So a Building hex with a Road going 
through it has a Cover of 2 (3 for the Build-
ing; modified by -1 for the Road). 
A German Squad with a printed Morale of 7 
in an Open Ground hex containing a Road 
will be at “-1” Cover and therefore have 6 
Morale for all purposes. If Foxholes [F102] 
were later placed in that hex, it would have 
a Morale of 9 (7; +3 Foxholes; -1 Road).
LOS: Clear if the LOS proceeds directly along 
the Road depiction; otherwise depends on the 
other terrain in the hex.
T94. Smoke
NOTE: Before beginning play, all the 
Smoke/Blaze markers should be placed into 
an opaque cup so that they may be drawn at 
random when called for during play.
MOVE COST: Depends on other terrain in the 
LOS: 1-10 Hindrance into or out of or through 
[10.3.4].
The actual Hindrance value of Smoke is 
printed on the individual markers.
T95. Stream
MOVE COST: 3
COVER: -1
WATER TERRAIN: No Weapon of any kind 
may fire from a Stream hex. No Blaze, 
Smoke or Fortification of any kind may ever 
occupy a Stream hex.
T96. Trail
MOVE COST: 1 if traveling along the Trail 
depiction (that is, the moving unit crossed a 
Trail hexside as it entered the hex); otherwise 
depends on the other terrain in the hex.
LOS: Depends on other terrain in the hex.
T97. Wall
COVER: none; or 2 if a Fire Attack crossed 
the Wall as it entered the target hex (not ap-
plicable when firing Mortars or Artillery).
LOS: Obstacle; or Clear if the Wall is one of 
the six hexsides of the sighting or target hex.
T98. Water Barrier
MOVE COST: Impassable
COVER: Impassable
IMPASSABLE WATER TERRAIN: No unit, 
Blaze, Smoke or Fortification marker of any 
kind may ever occupy a Water Barrier hex.
T99. Woods
COVER: 2
LOS: Obstacle; creates one Blind Hex 
[T88.4.1]
AIRBURSTS: The Fire Attack Total of any 
Mortar or Artillery attack against a Woods 
hex is always increased by 2.
So a 6-FP Mortar that fires into a Woods 
hex and makes a Fire Attack Roll of 7 would 
have an Attack Total of 15 instead of 13.
Shells fired at a high altitude – such as from 
mortars and distant artillery batteries – had 
a tendency to explode in the treetops. When 
this happened, the troops below would be 
subject to flying splinters and tree branches 
in addition to the shell blast that was not 
muffled by contact with the earth.

Page 23
FORTIFICATIONS
“He who defends everything defends nothing.”
—Frederick II
F100. General Rules
The following sections [F101–F106] need 
not be read and memorized your first 
time through the rules: They can be safely 
ignored until a Fortification actually enters 
play—players can then simply look up the 
rules for that particular marker.
F100.1 Acquisition—There are six “Fortifi-
cations” in the game: Foxholes, Trenches, 
Mines, Wire, Bunkers and a Pillbox. Fortifi-
cations are normally brought into play at the 
beginning of a scenario, though some can 
also enter play during the game due to vari-
ous Actions and Events.
F100.2 Removal—Fortifications may normally 
only be eliminated during play via various 
Events, the “Demolitions” Action [A31], or an 
Artillery Impact Roll [O18.2.3.3].
F100.3 Stacking—No more than one Fortifica-
tion marker of any type may ever occupy a 
single hex. The first Fortification to be placed 
in a hex takes precedence. No Fortification 
may ever occupy a Water hex (i.e. Marsh, 
Stream or Water Barrier with no Bridge).
The various Fortifications are described in 
detail, below, and are listed in alphabetical 
order for ease of reference. A condensed 
version of the following information can 
also be found on the Track Display for ease 
of reference during play.
F101. Bunker
A Bunker gives the hex it oc-
cupies an alternate Cover of 
“6” (“7” instead vs Mortars and 
During Melee, the side that was the last sole 
occupant of a Bunker hex wins if the Melee 
totals are tied.
F102. Foxholes
A Foxholes marker gives the hex 
it occupies an alternate Cover of 
“3” (“4” instead vs Mortars and 
F103. Mines 
F103.1 General Rules 
A Mines marker occupying a hex 
will attack any unit (enemy or 
friendly) that Moves, Advances 
or Retreats into or out of that hex. 
Units moving together are attacked with a 
single roll; otherwise a separate Mine Attack 
should be made against each unit as it enters, 
or is about to exit, a hex containing Mines. 
Units that were already in a Mines hex at the 
moment another unit Moves/Advances/Re-
treats into or out of it is immune to that Mine 
Attack.
F103.2 Mine Attack
The strength of a Mine Attack is a default 6 
FP unless the scenario Defender is specifi-
cally assigned (or purchased) a 7- or 8-FP 
Minefield capability.
Cover for a Mine Attack is automatically set 
to “0”, and cannot be modified by any means. 
A Mine Attack Roll follows the same general 
rules as for a Fire Attack Roll [O20.3.3 and 
O20.3.4] except that only the moving/advanc-
ing/retreating units in the hex need make 
a Fire Defense Roll. The player controlling 
such a unit makes its Defense Roll whereas 
his opponent makes the Attack Roll.
IMPORTANT—An unbroken unit that becomes 
broken [3.2] while leaving a Mined hex is still 
placed in the hex it was entering.
It made it but probably has a casualty to 
contend with.
F104. Pillbox
A Pillbox gives the hex it oc-
cupies an alternate Cover of 
“5” (“6” instead vs Mortars and 
During Melee, the side that was the last sole 
occupant of a Pillbox hex wins if the Melee 
totals are tied.
F105. Trench
F105.1 General Rules 
A Trench marker gives the hex it 
occupies an alternate Cover of 
“4” (“5” instead vs Mortars and 
F105.2 Trenches & Movement
A unit Moving from one hex containing a 
Trench into an adjacent hex containing a 
Trench, Bunker or Pillbox (or vice versa) 
expends only 1 MP to do so, regardless of the 
terrain in the two hexes (EXCEPTION: Cliff 
hexsides [T83], which cannot be crossed dur-
ing a Move Order). This applies even if the 
unit is moving uphill or is crossing a hexside 
that would normally increase its movement 
cost. Furthermore, that unit cannot be the 
target of Op Fire [A33] in the hex moved into.
F106. Wire
F106.1 General Rules
A Wire marker sharing a hex 
with one or more units affects 
those units by reducing their FP, 
CREDITS
Game Designer — Chad Jensen
Development — Chad & Kai Jensen
Series Developer — John A Foley
Art Director — Rodger MacGowan
Box Art & Packaging Design — 
Rodger MacGowan
Cards — Mark Simonitch and Chad 
Jensen
Counters — Lee Brimmicombe-Wood 
and Chad Jensen
Maps — Leland Myrick and Chad 
Jensen
Rules & Player Aids — Chad Jensen
Proof-reading — Rick Young, Troy 
Nichols, David Fristrom, Jeff Paul, 
Jerry Tresman, Richard Wagoner, 
Jake Thornton, Kris Adamson and 
Joe Keller
Play Testers — Mark Beyak, Alex 
Ostroumov, Kris Adamson, Samuel 
Farinato, Dusty Divine, Joe White, 
John Zrimc, Troy Nichols, Jordan 
Nichols, Derek Nichols, Steve “Sal” 
Salkovics and Martin Scott
Production Coordinator — Tony 
Curtis
Producers — Gene Billingsley, 
Tony Curtis, Andy Lewis, Rodger 
MacGowan and Mark Simonitch
Range and Morale numbers by -1 each. Com-
mand is unaffected by Wire.
F106.2 Wire & Movement
A moving unit loses all its remaining MPs 
immediately after entering or exiting a hex 
containing Wire.
So if a unit begins its Move in a Wire hex it 
must stop moving in the first hex entered—
even if that hex contains a Road or Leader. 
If it moves into a Wire hex, its movement 
will also automatically cease there.
Units can Advance or Retreat into and out of 
a Wire hex normally, as MPs are not utilized 
during these activities.
F106.3 Wire & Fire Attacks
Units in a hex containing Wire cannot form 
a Fire Group [O20.3.1] with pieces outside the 
No Weapon may be fired from a Wire hex.

Action Listings...........................pp 15-17
Actions.................................glossary; 1.6; A24
capability..................................................5.2
during Orders......................................O14.3
min. Firepower...........10.3.2.1; O20.3.2 box
movement timing................................O21.6
Opportunity Fire.....................................A33
Advance..................................................... O16
Artillery
boxes.....................................................2.2.3
Denied....................................................O17
Request...................................................O18
Accuracy..................................O18.2.2
Impact......................................O18.2.3
Spotting....................................O18.2.1
Blaze.....................................8.1.5; 10.2.1; T79
creation of .............................................E46
spreading ...............................................E48
Broken
Radios........................................O17; O18.1
units..........................................................3.2
Weapons.................................................11.4
Bunker ............................ F101; Track Display
Cards............................................................... 1
discarding........................................5.3; O15
drawing....................................................5.4
hand size (Posture)...................................1.1
Casualty Track............................................. 4.2
Command....................................... 3.1.5; 3.3.1
Radius................................................3.3.1.1
and units.............................................3.3.1.2
and Weapons......................................3.3.1.3
Command Confusion.........................O19; A28
Compass................................................... 2.2.2
Cover.......................................................T78.3
crest line...............................................T88.3.1
Die rolls....................................................... 1.9
Artillery Accuracy............................O18.2.2
Artillery Impact................................O18.2.3
cancellation of (re-roll)............................9.1
Fire Attack........................................O20.3.3
Fire Defense.....................................O20.3.4
Melee................................................O16.4.2
Rally....................................................O22.3
Rout.....................................................O23.2
Sudden Death........................................6.2.2
Targeting...........................................O20.2.3
Event Listings............................pp 18-20
Events.................................. glossary; 1.7; E42
Event! trigger.....................................1.9.1.1
Exiting the Map........................................... 7.2
involuntarily...........................7.2.2; O23.3.5
voluntarily.....................7.2.1; O16.2; O21.4
 Fire	........................................................... O20
Activation............................................O20.1
Fire Attack...........................................O20.3
Fire Defense.....................................O20.3.4
Fire Groups......................................O20.3.1
Opportunity Fire.....................................A33
Ordnance Targeting.............................O20.2
Firepower (FP)
on Radio....................................................12
on unit...................................................3.1.1
Flamethrower ....................11.6; Track Display
Fortification Listings........................p 23
Foxholes ......................... F102; Track Display
placement..................A32; A35.1; E55; E73
Hand size..............................................1.1; 5.4
Game End.................................................... 6.3
Heroes......................................................E58.1
 creation of.............................................E58
Hills ...........................................................T88
and blind hexes................................ T88.4.1
Hindrances................................................. 10.3
and Fire Attacks...............................O20.3.2
and Hills.............................................. T88.5
and Targeting....................................O20.2.3
Initiative.......................................................... 9
and re-rolling............................................9.1
and a tied game........................................9.2
Jammed! trigger....................1.9.1.2; O20.3.3.1
NA during Artillery Impact...........O18.2.3.2
NA during Mine Attack...............1.9.1.2 box
NA during Targeting..........................1.9.1.2
Leaders........................................................ 3.3
Leader Table...................................Playbook
Line of Sight (LOS)......................................10
Maps............................................................... 2
Melee...................................................... O16.4
Mines............................... F103; Track Display
placement................................... A35.2; E47
and Retreating..................................O23.3.4
Morale....................................................... 3.1.4
Move...........................................................O21
and Op Fire.........................................O21.3
and Trenches..................................... F105.2
and Weapon transfer.........................O21.1.1
and Wire............................................ F106.2
as a stack.............................................O21.2
costs............................ O21.1; Terrain Chart
Movement number
on unit...................................................3.1.3
Objectives.................................................... 2.3
chits.......................................................7.3.2
multi-hex buildings............................7.3.1.1
VP value...................................................7.3
Obstacles................................................... 10.2
and Hills..............................................T88.4
Opportunity Fire........................................ A33
NA vs. Advancing units......................O16.1
NA vs. Retreating units....................O23.3.2
Order Listings...........................pp 10-15
Order of Battle (OB)............................glossary
Display..................................................4.3.1
Fortification....................................Playbook
Support.......................................Player Aids
Unit.............................................Player Aids
Orders..................................glossary; 1.5; O14
Capability.................................................5.1
Ordnance......................................see Weapons
Pillbox ............................. F104; Track Display
placement............................................A35.3
Posture..........................................glossary; 1.1
Radios........................................................... 12
placement................................... 2.2.3; 8.1.2
usage....................O17; O18; Track Display
Rally......................................................... 3.2.5
Random Hex.................................glossary; 1.8
and broken Weapons..............................11.4
and Snipers.........................................1.9.1.3
Range
and Targeting....................................O20.2.2
on unit...................................................3.1.2
Recover...................................................... O22
Reinforcing units..........................6.1.2 step #5
Retreating............................................... O23.3
Revealing cards........................................... 1.3
Rout	........................................................... O23
Satchel Charge ..................11.6; Track Display
Sequence of Play............................................ 5
Smoke...................................8.1.4; 10.3.4; T94
creation of ............................A39; E53; E77
Rounds.........O18.2.1.1; O18.2.3.1; O20.2.1
Sniper! trigger........................................ 1.9.1.3
Spotting Round (SR)............ glossary; O18.2.1
Stacking.......................................................... 8
Sudden Death....................................6.2; 6.3.2
Suppressed.................................................... 13
placement ...............O20.3.4; O22.3: O23.2; 	
...............................................E51; E60; E75
removal .....................................13.3; O22.2
Surrender........................................... 4.2; 6.3.1
Targeting................................................. O20.2
Terrain Listings............. pp 20-22; chart
Time (and the Time Track)............................. 6
Time Advance.......................................6.1.2
Time! trigger......................................1.9.1.4
Track Display ................................................. 4
Trench ............................. F105; Track Display
and Movement.................................. F105.2
Turn	.......................................glossary; 1.1; 1.5
Units................................................glossary; 3
broken......................................................3.2
Heroes................................................. E58.1
Leaders.....................................................3.3
stacking....................................................8.2
stats.................................3.1; Track Display
Veteran.....................................................E44.1
Victory Points (VP)......................................... 7
via Elimination.........................................7.1
via Exiting................................................7.2
via Objectives...........................................7.3
Victory Track................................................4.1
Weapons.........................................................11
broken.............................................1.8; 11.4
and Cliffs................................................ T83
elimination of..................................4.2; 11.3
NA in Melee.....................................O16.4.1
Ordnance................................ glossary; 11.5
and Command............................3.3.1.3
and Fire Groups....................O20.3.1.1
and Hindrances...........................10.3.1
NA during Op Fire......................A33.3
and Targeting..............................O20.2
stacking & portage.......................8.1.1; 11.2
on Suppressed units......................11.1; 13.2
transfer of.........................................O21.1.1
and Water Terrain...........................T89; T95
Wire ................................. F106; Track Display
and Movement.................................. F106.2
placement...................................A35.5; E69
and Retreating..................................O23.3.3
INDEX
GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com