Game Design by
Richard Borg
2nd Edition
RULES OF PLAY

The battlefield is a scene of constant chaos. The winner will be 
the one who controls that chaos, both his own and the enemy’s.
- Napoleon
1. INTRODUCTION
Commands & Colors: Napoleonics is not overly complex by 
design. It is based on the highly successful Commands & Colors 
game system, where the Command cards drive movement while 
creating a “fog of war.” The battle dice resolve combat quickly 
and efficiently. Commands & Colors: Napoleonics introduces 
many new game concepts which add historical depth and will 
provide even the most veteran Commands & Color player many 
new experiences and challenges.
The scale of the game fluctuates, which allows players to ef-
fectively portray epic Napoleonic battles, as well as smaller 
historical actions. In some scenarios, an infantry unit may rep-
resent an entire division, while in others a unit may represent 
a single regiment or battalion. The Napoleonic tactics you will 
need to execute to gain victory conform remarkably well to the 
advantages and limitations inherent to the various Napoleonic 
National Armies of the day and the battlefield terrain features 
on which they fought.
The battles showcased in the scenario book focus on the histori-
cal confrontation between the English and French armies. The 
stylized battlefield maps emphasize the important terrain features 
and highlight the historical deployment of forces in scale with 
the game system.
Commands & Colors: Napoleonics features that differ from 
Commands & Colors Ancients:
•	 Due to the nature of weaponry, ranged fire is now much more 
powerful.
•	 As most units suffer losses, the number of battle dice they can 
roll decreases. Force preservation and timely commitment of 
reserves will prove crucial here.
•	 Units reduced to a single block may not be able to battle due 
to terrain dice reductions.
•	 Units in this core game (except militia) retreat one hex per 
flag.
•	 One or more ordered artillery units and an ordered infantry 
or cavalry unit may combine their battle dice in a Combined 
Arms melee attack.
• Cavalry may Retire and Reform when attacked in melee by 
infantry, but not when attacked by other cavalry or artillery 
in melee.
•	 Only victorious cavalry in melee may engage in bonus melee 
•	 Light cavalry and Light infantry (not Rifle Light) hit on sabers 
in melee.
•	 Infantry may form square to counter an enemy cavalry melee 
attack.
•	 Terrain plays a major role in many battles.
•	 Each major power that fought in the wars of Napoleon has its 
own National Unit Reference Card. The reference card details 
unit strengths and any special national advantages the army 
had during the period.
Welcome and Enjoy!
—Richard Borg
2. CONTENTS
5 Sheets containing 56 double-sided Terrain Tiles, 2 Infantry 
in Square tracks, Infantry Square counters and Victory Banner 
counters.
70	Command cards
8	 Battle dice
6	 Block and Dice Label sheets
6	 Player Aid Cards 1 Rule Book
1	 Scenario Booklet containing 15 battle scenarios
340 Blocks: dark blue French units, red British units and brown 
Portuguese units, comprising:
193 small dark blue, red and brown blocks for infantry units 
(including 13 spare blocks)
87	medium dark blue, red and brown blocks for cavalry 
(including 10 spare blocks)
60	rectangular dark blue, red and brown blocks for leaders and 
artillery (including 12 spare blocks)
•	 All infantry blocks are 18x18x8mm in size.
•	 All cavalry blocks are 22x22x8mm in size.
•	 All artillery blocks are 22x28x8mm in size and are placed so 
the 28mm edge runs horizontally.
•	 All leader blocks are 22x28x8mm in size and are placed so 
the 28mm edge runs vertically.
Medium Blocks
22 x 22 x 8 mm
Small Blocks
18 x 18 x 8 mm
Rectangular Blocks
22 x 28 x 8 mm
B a s e l i n e H e x e s
B a s e l i n e H e x e s
L a t e r a l E d g e
L a t e r a l E d g e

Battlefield Game Board
The battlefield game board (hereafter referred to as the battlefield) 
is a hex grid, 13 hexes wide by 9 hexes deep. The battlefield is 
divided into three sections by two dotted lines, giving each player 
a Left Flank Section, a Center Section and a Right Flank Section. 
Where the dotted line cuts through a hex, the hex is considered 
to be part of both the flank section and the center section.
Note: Left Flank Section, Center Section and Right Flank Sec-
tion will often simply be denoted as section or sections in these 
rules.
Terrain Tiles
The Terrain Tiles represent a wide range of terrain features and 
are placed on the battlefield to recreate the historical scenario. 
Terrain rules are explained in detail in the Terrain rule section.
Command Cards
Units may only move or battle when given an order. Command 
cards are used to order your troops to move, battle, or do some-
thing special. For a description of all the Command cards, see 
Command Card rule section.
Battle Dice
Each battle die has six blank indented sides that will require 
stickers. Each die should have the following stickers placed on 
its indented faces: two Infantry symbols, one Cavalry symbol, 
one Artillery symbol, one Flag symbol, and one Saber symbol.
•	 Infantry: black symbol on blue background
•	 Cavalry: black symbol on yellow background
•	 Artillery: black symbol on red background
•	 Flag: white symbol on black background
•	 Sabers: white symbol on black background
Sabers
Flag
Artillery
Cavalry
Infantry
National Unit Reference Card
Each of the major powers that fought in the Wars of Napoleon 
will have a National Unit Reference Card.
A National Unit Reference Card details:
•	 The unit types and map set up codes.
•	 Sticker art portraying each listed unit.
•	 The number of blocks that are deployed in a unit.
Note: Not all nations had the same organization therefore the 
number of blocks for a specific unit type may differ.
•	 The unit’s movement in hexes.
•	 Unit specific Battle Dice Modifications plus Command card 
Dice Modifications.
•	 Morale Modifications.
•	 National Notes
Quick Reference Card
This game also contains two Quick Reference Cards that present 
all information on the National Unit Reference Cards, but with 
minimal graphics so it can all be accessed on a single sheet.
Units and Leaders
Each unit is composed of a certain number of blocks. The num-
ber of blocks in a unit may vary by unit type and Nation and is 
detailed on the National Unit Reference Card.
A General, Marshal or Field officer of any rank (hereafter referred 
to as a leader) is represented by one rectangular block. A single 
Leader block is not considered a unit.
Units and Leaders Visual Identification 
Aids
To assist players in set-up and unit recognition, several unit class 
icons are being introduced.
Flaming grenade icon: Grenadier infantry: upper left 
or right of each sticker for the following unit types - 
Grenadier, Guard Grenadier, Old Guard
Bugle icon: Light infantry: upper left or right of each 
sticker for the following unit types - Light, Rifle Light, 
Guard Light and Young Guard
Cavalry helmet icon: Heavy cavalry: upper left or right 
of each sticker for the following unit types - Heavy, 
Guard Heavy, Heavy Cuirassier
Horse artillery: upper left or right of each sticker for 
the following unit types - Horse artillery, Guard horse 
artillery
Line and militia infantry, light cavalry (Light, Light Guard and 
Light Lancers) and foot artillery (Foot and Guard Foot) classes of 
units are differentiated by the absence of any identifying icon.
Applying the Stickers: Apply appropriate unit stickers to the 
fronts and backs of the blocks for each unit. Place the British 
unit labels on the red blocks, the Portuguese unit labels on the 
brown blocks and French unit labels on the dark blue blocks. We 
suggest that you separate the blocks by color, then sort blocks 
by size. Start with the British units. Pull out 36 small red blocks. 
Find the British Line Infantry stickers on sheet 3 of 6. Peel and 
place a sticker on the front and back on the 36 small red blocks. 
When you run out of the 36 blocks, move on to the British Light 
Infantry. Pull out 10 small red blocks. Find the British Light 
Infantry stickers on sheet 4 of 6. Peel and place stickers on the 
front and back on the 10 small red blocks. When you run out 
of 10 blocks, move on to the British Rifle Light Infantry units 
that need 6 blocks. Keep going in this fashion until all the Brit-
ish units are completed. Then move on to the Portuguese units 
brown blocks, and then to the French units using the dark blue 
blocks. It will take a little time but it will be worth the effort! A 
few extra blocks and stickers are supplied as spares.

Infantry in Square Track and Counters
The two infantry in square tracks and the numbered counters 
are used to track infantry units that have formed square on the 
battlefield.
French
In Square
British
In Square
Victory Banner Counters
These 18 Victory Banner counters will track a player’s quest 
for victory.
French
Victory Banner
British
Victory Banner
3. SETTING UP A GAME
1. Select a battle from the scenario booklet. 
PLAY NOTE: If this is your first game of Commands & Colors: 
Napoleonics, we recommend that you set up and play the first battle 
in the Scenario Booklet—Rolica (French First Position) 17 August 
1808, which is de-signed to introduce you to the basics of Napoleonic 
warfare and the scenario will give you and your opponent a chance 
to master many of the game’s basic play elements.
2. Place the board in the center of the table. Each scenario speci-
fies which army is at the top and bottom of the battlefield, and 
players should sit on the side closest to the army they will com-
mand. Hand each player the applicable National Unit Reference 
Card. Each player also takes an infantry in square track and a set 
of infantry in square counters numbered 1-4. Place the track and 
the counters near your side of the battlefield.
3. Place the terrain hexes onto the battlefield as indicated by 
the scenario map. 4. Separate the blocks, French forces (dark 
blue) and British/Portuguese forces (red and brown blocks). We 
recommend that players initially set one block of the required 
troop type or leader block on the battlefield, using the board’s 
borders and flank boundaries (dotted lines) to quickly locate the 
correct hexes. Then complete each Infantry, Cavalry and Artil-
lery unit with its required number of blocks as detailed in the 
National Unit Reference Card. Note: Each unit symbol on the 
map represents an entire unit.
5. Shuffle the Command card deck thoroughly and deal Com-
mand cards to each side per the selected scenario’s battle notes. 
Keep your Command cards a secret from the opposing player. 
Place the remainder of the deck face down, alongside the battle-
field, within easy reach of both players.
6. Place the eight battle dice and Victory Banner counters within 
reach of both players.
7. Review any special rules or victory conditions that apply for 
the battle.
8. The starting player, as indicated in the scenario’s battle notes, 
begins play.
4. OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of the game is to be the first to capture a set number 
of Victory Banners (usually 5 to 9), depending on the selected 
battle scenario’s victory conditions.
A Victory Banner is gained for each enemy leader or enemy unit 
entirely eliminated. When the last block of a unit, or a leader, is 
eliminated, collect one Victory Banner. In some scenarios, captur-
ing certain terrain hexes, or accomplishing other battle-specific 
objectives can win additional Victory Banners.
Victory is achieved the instant the last Victory Banner required 
is gained.
A word about multi-player games: Commands & Colors: Na-
poleonics is introduced here as a two-player (or two-team) game, 
with each side leading one or more warring Nations. While some 
components are designed to facilitate larger scale battles, these 
additional capabilities are beyond the scope of the core game. 
Our La Grande Battle scenarios (using a double size battlefield 
and a La Grande Battle Command card deck) will be the subject 
of a future volume.
5. GAME-TURN
(SEQUENCE OF PLAY)
The battle notes state which player goes first. The active (attack-
ing) player, on his turn, orders the forces under his control into 
movement and battle with the play of a Command card and its 
associated effects. The active player’s opponent is considered the 
defending player during the turn. Players alternate taking turns, 
until one of the players reaches the number of Victory Banners 
indicated in the scenario’s victory conditions.
During your turn follow the sequence shown below:
1. COMMAND phase: Play a Command card.
2. ORDER phase: Announce all units and leaders you intend 
to order, within the limits of the Section or Tactic Command 
card just played.
3. MOVEMENT phase: Move all ordered units and leaders, one 
at a time. Respect National Unit Regulations per the National 
Unit Reference Card and terrain movement limitations.

4. COMBAT phase: All movement must be completed before 
any combat is fought. Battle one ordered unit at a time and each 
unit’s combat must be fought to completion including any ad-
ditional combat actions before another unit’s combat is begun.
5. DRAW phase: Draw a new Command card.
Phase 1.
PLAY A COMMAND CARD
At the start of your turn, play a Command card from your hand. 
Place it face up in front of you, and read it aloud.
A Command card usually dictates the number of units or leaders 
ordered for the turn, as well as the section(s) of the battlefield to 
which they must belong. Hexes with a dotted line running through 
them are always considered as simultaneously belonging to both 
the corresponding flank and center section.
There are two types of Command cards. Section cards (left 
flank, center and right flank) are recognizable by their iconic 
representation of the sections of the battlefield on the lower half 
of the card. They are used to order a set number of units from the 
section arrow(s) highlighted on the card. Tactic cards feature an 
illustration, and an explicit description of the number and type 
of units that can be ordered by the play of the card. When the 
location of these units is not specified, the Tactic card can be used 
to order units in any section across the battlefield.
Section card
Tactic card
If the situation arises where the Command card just played cannot 
order any of your units; disregard phase 2 through 4 of the Game 
Turn and draw a new Command card, which ends your turn.
Phase 2.
ORDER YOUR UNITS & LEADERS
After playing a Command card, announce which corresponding 
units and leaders you choose to order.
•	 Only those units and leaders that are issued an order may 
move, battle, or take a special action during your turn.
•	 You may only give one order to each unit or leader during the 
course of a single game turn. A leader in the same hex as a 
friendly unit is considered “attached” to the unit and must move 
along with the unit unless the leader is ordered to detach. 
	 Note: It only costs one order for a unit and its attached leader 
to move and/or battle together.
•	 When a Section Command card, Leadership card or La Grande 
Manoeuvre card is played, or on a flag roll when the Élan 
Command card is played, a leader in the same hex as a unit 
may be ordered to detach from the unit and move by himself. 
It costs one order for an attached leader to detached from its 
unit and moved separately. See Leader Movement.
	 Command cards have a Bicorn Hat symbol to remind players 
that leaders may be ordered to detach from a unit and to move 
separately when playing these cards.
•	 Assault Command cards allow you to order a number of 
units equal to your side’s “Command.” The Élan and Rally 
Command cards allow you to roll dice equal to your side’s 
“Command.” A player’s Command is equal to the number of 
Command cards in a player’s hand including the Command 
card just played.
	 Note that each unit in square reduces that side’s Command by 
one as one card is randomly removed from the player’s hand 
and placed on the Infantry in Square Track. Any in square unit 
that comes out of square or is eliminated increases Command 
by one as that card is returned to the player’s hand.
•	 Units or leaders on a hex with a dotted line running through 
it may be ordered from either section.
•	 If a Section Command card allows you to issue more orders in 
a given section of the battlefield than you currently have units 
or leaders in that section, those additional orders are lost.
•	 If a Tactic card allows you to issue more orders than units you 
currently have, those additional orders are lost.
Anatomy of Units and Leaders
Blocks grouped together on a same hex form a unit. The images 
and text on the unit blocks will help indicate the unit’s troop 
type, making it easier for both sides to rapidly identify each 
unit in play.
Infantry stickers all show two infantrymen and have a blue stripe 
on the bottom.
Cavalry stickers all show one mounted trooper and have a yellow 
stripe at the bottom.
Artillery stickers all show a cannon with two cannoneers and 
have a red stripe at the bottom.
Leader stickers all show a mounted general and have no stripe 
at the bottom.
Artillery
Infantry
Cavalry
In Commands & Colors: Napoleonics there are four types of 
units, roughly corresponding to distinct levels of military train-
ing and battle experience.

•	 Regular units (line infantry, light and heavy cavalry, foot and 
horse artillery) - the backbone of all Napoleonic armies. These 
formations are drilled to advance and battle without becoming 
disorganized.
•	 Irregular units (militia infantry) - recruits drawn from the 
masses. Their military training and equipment tends to be 
meager or non-existent.
•	 Elite units (light, rifle light, grenadier infantry and cuirassier 
cavalry)—experienced in battle, these infantry and cavalry 
troops are professionals, and trained to carry out advanced 
military maneuvers in the face of the enemy. These troops are 
usually well equipped and versed in military matters.
•	 Guard units (infantry, cavalry, artillery) - promoted from the 
ranks, these are the shock troops of an army. Often held in 
reserve to deliver the decisive coup-de-grace in battle, they 
possess the best weapons and the top mounts.
•	 A Leader is not a unit, and is represented by a single block. A 
Leader, when attached to a unit, will inspire a unit to perform 
better.
Phase 3.
MOVE YOUR UNITS & 
LEADERS
Movements are announced and made sequentially, one ordered 
unit or leader at a time, in the sequence of your choice.
•	 A unit or leader may only be ordered to move once per turn.
•	 A unit or leader that is ordered does not have to move.
•	 A unit or leader’s movement must be completed before 
beginning the movement of another unit or leader.
•	 Two units may never occupy the same hex or pass through a 
hex containing another friendly unit.
•	 A unit may not move onto or through a hex occupied by an 
enemy unit, enemy leader, or friendly unit.
•	 A unit may move onto a hex occupied by a friendly leader 
when the leader block is alone in a hex. The unit must stop and 
move no further on that turn. The leader is considered attached 
to the unit.
•	 Ordered units and leaders may move from one section of the 
battlefield into another.
•	 A unit or leader may only move off the battlefield’s baseline or 
lateral edges when explicitly allowed by the scenario’s battle 
notes.
•	 You may not split off individual blocks from a unit; they must 
stay together and always move as a group.
•	 A unit that is reduced through casualties may not combine with 
another unit.
•	 Some terrain features affect movement and may prevent a unit 
or leader from moving its full distance or battling. Terrain rules 
are explained in detail in the Terrain rule section.
•	 A unit or leader may not move onto or through a hex with 
impassable terrain.
Retreat movement rules vary slightly from regular movement. 
Retreat rules are explained in detail in the Retreat rule section.
Infantry Movement
•	 An ordered line, grenadier, Old Guard, guard grenadier or 
militia infantry unit may move 1 hex and battle.
•	 An ordered light, Young Guard, or rifle light unit may move 
1 hex and battle or 2 hexes and not battle. 
Cavalry Movement
•	 An ordered light cavalry unit may move 1, 2 or 3 hexes and 
battle.
•	 An ordered heavy, heavy cuirassier or guard heavy cavalry 
unit may move 1 or 2 hexes and battle.
Artillery Movement
•	 An ordered foot or guard foot artillery unit may move 1 hex 
and not battle or not move and battle.
•	 An ordered horse artillery unit may move 1 hex and battle or 
2 hexes and not battle.
Specific unit movement modifiers are detailed on the National 
Leader Movement
•	 A leader may only be ordered to move once per turn.
•	 An ordered leader (either alone in a hex or ordered to detach 
from the unit it is with) may move up to 3 hexes, but does not 
have to move.
•	 A lone leader may move through a hex with a friendly unit, 
a hex with a friendly unit and an attached leader, or another 
friendly leader that is alone in a hex, but may not end movement 
in a hex containing another friendly lone or attached leader.
	 Note: A friendly unit or leader is defined as all allied units or 
leaders.
•	 A leader that moves onto a hex with a friendly unit may stop 
as long as the unit does not already have an attached leader. 
The leader is then considered attached to the unit.
•	 A leader may not move onto or through a hex occupied by an 
enemy unit or enemy leader, unless the leader is attempting 
to escape through the occupied enemy hex.
ATTACHED LEADERS:
A leader in the same hex as a friendly unit is considered “at-
tached” to the unit and must move along with the unit unless 
the leader is ordered to detach. Important Note: It only costs 
one order for a unit and its attached leader to move and/or battle 
together.
When a Section Command card, Leadership card or La Grande 
Manoeuvre card is played, or on a flag roll when the Élan Com-
mand card is played, a leader in the same hex as a unit may be 
ordered to detach from the unit and move by himself. It costs 
one order for an attached leader to detach from its unit and 
move separately. The unit to which the leader was attached is 
not ordered by the leader order, but could be ordered by spend-
ing another order. 

A unit and its attached leader may be ordered simultaneously 
by spending two orders. During movement, the owning player 
chooses what sequence to move the leader and unit. 
Attaching a leader to a unit does not order the unit just joined or 
the unit the leader just detached from. 
A leader may detach from one unit, move and attach to another 
unit, but may not move again with the unit he has just joined. The 
unit could have been ordered and moved prior to the leader join-
ing the unit, but once the leader joins the unit it may not move.
A leader attached to an infantry unit in square cannot be issued an 
order to detach. When the unit is ordered to come out of square, 
the leader may also be simultaneously ordered to detach on the 
same turn using an additional order.
PLAY NOTE: Timing is important when detaching and attach-
ing leaders. Once a moving leader attaches to a new unit, the 
new unit may not move if ordered, but the unit (and the newly 
attached leader) may Battle in place.
As an example, the owning player selects an Attack Three Units 
Center Command card and, during the Orders phase, orders a 
grenadier infantry unit, its attached leader and a heavy cavalry 
unit in the center section.
Since both the grenadier unit and attached leader were issued 
an order, one order detaches the leader from the grenadiers, and 
the other allows the grenadier infantry to move and battle. Here 
are two possible outcomes:
One—The ordered heavy cavalry unit moves first and moves 
adjacent to an enemy unit. The detached leader now moves to 
join the ordered cavalry unit. The ordered heavy cavalry unit and 
attached leader may now battle. The ordered grenadier infantry 
unit may also move and battle.
Two—The player chooses to move the ordered grenadiers be-
fore the detached leader (it is equally permissible to move the 
detached leader before the unit). Had the owning player only 
ordered the grenadier infantry unit, the attached leader would 
have been required to move with it and could not detach. Next, 
the detached ordered leader moves and joins the heavy cavalry 
unit. The ordered leader cannot move further once it attaches, 
and therefore, unfortunately, the ordered heavy cavalry unit 
cannot move either (though it may battle in place).
Phase 4.
COMBAT
Combat is a term that is used for both ranged combat (fire) and 
melee combat. To fire, a unit must be within range and have a 
line of sight to the target unit. To melee, a unit must be in an 
adjacent hex to the target unit. An ordered unit may only engage 
in one type of combat when ordered, even if it is capable of both 
types of combat.
Combat is resolved, one ordered unit at a time, in the sequence 
of your choice. You may switch between ranged combat and 
melee combat from one unit to the next; however, you must 
announce and resolve one unit’s combat, including all related 
additional combat actions stemming from that battle entirely, 
before proceeding to another ordered unit’s combat.
•	 A unit that is ordered does not have to battle, even when 
adjacent to an enemy unit.
•	 A unit may not split its battle dice between several enemy 
targets during the same combat dice roll.
•	 A unit may only be ordered to battle once per turn; in some 
instances after a successful melee a cavalry unit may have the 
opportunity for a bonus melee as part of additional combat 
actions. For additional combat action details refer to the 
Cavalry Breakthrough and Bonus Melee rule sections.
•	 Normally the base number of Battle Dice rolled in a combat 
is equal to the number of blocks present in the ordered unit. 
Therefore, the number of casualties (lost blocks) a unit has 
suffered affects the base number of battle dice the unit will 
roll in combat.
•	 A leader may not battle when alone in a hex.
RANGED COMBAT (FIRE)
Only infantry and artillery units may engage in ranged combat. 
Cavalry units and leaders may not engage in ranged combat.
A unit with ranged weapons battling an enemy unit more than 1 
hex away is said to conduct ranged combat (fire) at that enemy 
unit (“target unit.”) In ranged combat the target unit must be 
within both range and line of sight of the firing unit.
•	 Ranged combat may not be used against an enemy unit in an 
adjacent hex.
•	 A unit adjacent to an enemy unit may not fire on another, more 
distant, enemy unit. If the unit chooses to battle, the unit must 
melee combat the adjacent enemy unit.
•	 A target unit may not Battle Back after a ranged combat 
attack.
•	 A target cavalry unit may not Retire and Reform before a 
ranged combat attack.
Ranged Combat (Fire) Procedure
1. Announce firing unit
2. Check Range
3. Check Line of Sight
4. Determine Strength of the Attack
5. Apply Command card Dice Additions
6. Apply Terrain Battle Dice Reduction
7. Resolve Combat
8. Score Hits
9. Apply Retreats
1. Announce Firing Unit: Announce the ordered unit you want to 
fire with and the enemy unit it is targeting. Each Ranged Combat 
attack is declared and resolved one ordered unit at a time, in the 
sequence of your choice. You must announce and resolve one 
unit’s Ranged Combat entirely before beginning the next unit’s 
battle. Regardless of the number enemy units in range, each 
Ranged Combat is conducted by one eligible, ordered unit against 
one enemy unit in line of sight and in range. Ranged Combat by 

several friendly units against one enemy unit must be made and 
resolved one at a time.
2. Check Range: Verify that your target is within range. The 
range is the distance between the firing unit and the target unit, 
measured in hexes. When counting the range in hexes, include 
the target unit’s hex, but not the firing units hex.
WEAPON RANGES
There are four basic types of ranged weapon units in the Wars 
of Napoleon:
•	 All infantry units have a range of 2 hexes. Exception: Rifle 
Light Infantry
•	 Rifle Light Infantry units have a range of 3 hexes
•	 Foot Artillery units have a maximum range of 5 hexes
•	 Horse Artillery units have a maximum range of 4 hexes
3. Check Line of Sight: Verify that your target is within line of 
sight. A unit must be able to “see” the enemy unit it wants to fire 
at. This is known as having Line of Sight.
Imagine a line drawn from the center of the hex containing the 
firing unit to the center of the hex containing the target unit. This 
line of sight is blocked only if a hex between the battling unit 
and the target hex contains an obstruction. Obstructions include 
a unit or leader (regardless if friend or foe) or some terrain fea-
tures and the side edge of the battlefield. The terrain in the target 
unit’s hex does not block line of sight. If the imaginary line runs 
along the edge of one or more hexes that contain obstructions, 
line of sight is not blocked unless the obstructions are on both 
sides of the line.
Firing
Unit
EXAMPLE: This illustration shows four of several possible hexes 
that can be targeted by the firing unit. All hexes where the Line 
of Sight is blocked are indicated.
4. Determine Strength of the Ranged 
Attack:
Infantry - An ordered infantry unit may target an enemy unit 
two hexes (three hexes for rifle light units) away in any direc-
tion, subject to being in line of sight of the firing unit. The base 
number of battle dice rolled in ranged combat when the infantry 
unit does not move is equal to the number of blocks in the infantry 
unit. When an infantry unit moves one hex, the base number of 
battle dice rolled is equal to one-half the number of blocks in the 
unit, rounding up for the French and British armies and rounding 
down for the Portuguese army.
For other armies, see their National Unit Reference Card to 
determine if the infantry will round up or down when moving.
• A light, Young Guard, and rifle light infantry unit that moves 
two hexes may not engage in ranged combat. 
• A light, rifle light, grenadier and any guard infantry unit will 
engage in ranged combat with 1 additional battle die. 
Infantry ranged combat modifiers are detailed on the National 
Foot Artillery—An ordered foot artillery unit, which does not 
move, may target an enemy unit 5 or fewer hexes away in any 
direction, subject to being in line of sight of the firing unit. The 
number of blocks remaining in the Artillery unit and the distance 
to the target determines the number of battle dice to roll (see 
chart below).
•	 An ordered foot artillery unit that moves may not battle.
EXAMPLES: The French light infantry unit on the left (with 4 
blocks) does not move and engages in ranged combat against a 
British line infantry unit. The French infantry unit rolls 5 dice 
(one for each block plus one for being a light unit). The French 
light infantry unit on the right (with 3 blocks) moves one hex and 
engages in ranged combat against the same unit. This French 
infantry unit rolls 3 dice (when moving, the base number of battle 
dice is one half of the three blocks—one and one half rounded up 
to two for being French plus one for being a light unit).

Horse Artillery—An ordered horse artillery unit, which does not 
move, may target an enemy unit 4 or fewer hexes away in any 
direction, subject to being in line of sight of the firing unit. The 
number of blocks remaining in the Artillery unit and the distance 
to the target determines the number of battle dice.
•	 A horse artillery unit that moves 1 hex may battle, but cannot 
fire at 4 hex range.
•	 A horse artillery unit that moves 2 or more hexes may not 
battle.
•	 A horse artillery unit that only has one block remaining may 
not move and battle.
5. Apply Command card Dice Additions: Some Command 
cards will increase the number of battle dice that a unit will roll 
in ranged combat. 
6. Apply Terrain Battle Dice Reduction (if any): The terrain 
on which the target unit is on and in some cases the terrain the 
attacking unit is on, may reduce the number of battle dice rolled 
in ranged combat. Reduce the number of battle dice rolled ac-
cordingly. Refer to the section on Terrain for battle dice adjust-
ments.
7. Resolve Combat: Roll the resulting number of battle dice 
against the target; hits are resolved first, followed by retreats.
8. Score Hits: In ranged combat, the attacker scores 1 hit for each 
troop symbol rolled that matches the target unit. Other symbols 
rolled are a miss.
Ranged Combat Roll
Score 1 hit on Infantry unit
Score 1 hit on Cavalry unit 
Score 1 hit on Artillery unit 
Does not score a hit in ranged combat 
A flag does not cause a hit, but may cause the unit to 
retreat
For each hit scored, 1 block is removed from the target unit. When 
the last block in the opponent’s unit is removed, you collect a 
Victory Banner. If more hits are rolled than the number of blocks 
in the enemy unit, these additional hits have no effect.
Hitting a Leader: When an enemy unit with an attached leader 
takes a hit in range combat, the attached leader must make a 
leader casualty check. A leader not attached to a unit (alone in 
a hex) may not be targeted in ranged combat (only sabers cause 
leader hits, and in Ranged Combat, sabers do not score a hit). 
See Leader Casualty Check rule section.
DESIGN NOTE: While scores of leaders fell leading their 
troops, it was considered unchivalrous in that time to fire on 
lone leaders.
9. Apply Retreats: A flag does not cause a hit, but may cause the 
unit to retreat. See rule section Retreats. A unit unable to retreat 
for any reason will lose blocks, and will trigger a casualty check 
for an attached leader.
MELEE COMBAT
All units may engage in melee combat. An unattached leader 
may not engage in melee combat. A unit attacking an adjacent 
enemy unit is said to be engaging that enemy unit in melee. 
Targets engaged in melee are always considered within range 
and in line of sight of their attacker.
A unit adjacent to an enemy unit may not use ranged combat 
(fire) against the adjacent enemy unit or target another enemy 
unit within fire range. The unit must melee combat the adjacent 
enemy unit if it chooses to battle.
Melee Combat Procedure
1. Announce Melee Combat
2. Defending Cavalry Retire and Reform
3. Defending Infantry Form Square
4. Determine Strength of the Attack
5. Apply Command card Dice Additions
6. Apply Terrain Battle Dice Reduction
7. Resolve Combat
8. Score Hits
9. Apply Retreats
10. Additional Combat Actions; Taking Ground, Cavalry 
Breakthrough, Bonus Melee Attack
11. Battle Back (Defending unit’s Battle Back, apply hits and 
resolves retreats)
1. Announce Melee Combat: Announce the ordered unit you want 
to melee with and the enemy unit it is targeting. The unit must be 
adjacent to the targeted enemy unit to engage in melee combat. 
Each melee combat is declared and resolved one ordered unit 
at a time, in the sequence of your choice. You must declare and 
resolve one unit’s melee combat entirely, including any additional 
combat actions: Taking Ground, Cavalry Breakthrough, Bonus 
Melee Attack, and the defender’s Battle Back, before beginning 
the next unit’s combat.
If the defender holds a First Strike card, it must be played when 

the melee combat is declared, before the attacker’s battle dice 
are rolled.
Melee Combat by several friendly units against one enemy unit 
must be made and resolved one at a time. (Exception: Combined 
Arms Combats).
2. Cavalry Retire and Reform: When being attacked in melee 
by an enemy infantry unit, a cavalry unit may choose to Retire 
and Reform instead of staying and fighting in the melee. See 
Cavalry Retire and Reform rule section.
3. Defending Infantry Form Square: An Infantry Square is a 
defensive formation used by infantry units to counter an enemy 
cavalry attack. An infantry unit may choose to form square during 
the opponent’s turn when a cavalry unit is about to melee attack 
the infantry unit. See Infantry Square rule section.
4. Determine Strength of the Attack:
Infantry - An ordered infantry unit may stay in position or move 
one hex and melee an enemy unit on an adjacent hex. In melee 
combat, the base number of battle dice rolled is equal to the 
number of blocks in the unit, even if the infantry unit has moved 
prior to the melee combat.
•	 A light, Young Guard or rifle light infantry unit that moves 
two hexes may not engage in melee combat. 
•	 A French Old Guard unit will battle with two additional battle 
dice in melee combat. Any other guard infantry unit or any 
grenadier unit will battle with 1 additional battle die in melee 
•	 A rifle light or militia infantry unit does not score a hit when 
it rolls a saber in melee combat.
Infantry melee combat modifiers are detailed on the National 
EXAMPLE: The British line infantry unit with 4 blocks moves one 
hex and engages in melee combat against a French line infantry 
unit. The British infantry unit rolls 4 dice.
Cavalry - A light cavalry unit may stay in position or move up to 
three hexes and melee combat an adjacent enemy unit. A heavy 
cavalry unit may stay in position or move up to two hexes and 
melee combat an adjacent enemy unit. The base number of battle 
dice rolled for a cavalry melee combat is equal to the number of 
blocks present in the attacking cavalry unit.
•	 A heavy, cuirassier heavy or guard heavy cavalry unit will 
battle with 1 additional battle die in melee combat.
Cavalry melee combat modifiers are detailed on the National 
Foot Artillery - An ordered foot artillery unit, which does not 
move, may target an enemy in the adjacent hex in melee. An or-
dered foot artillery unit that moves may not melee on this turn.
•	 An ordered foot artillery unit with two or three blocks 
remaining rolls 4 battle dice in melee combat.
•	 A foot artillery unit that only has one block remaining will roll 
3 battle dice in melee combat.
•	 A guard foot artillery unit with any number of blocks will 
melee with 1 additional battle die.
Horse Artillery - An ordered horse artillery unit may be able to 
target an enemy in the adjacent hex in melee. 
•	 A two or three block horse artillery unit that does not move, 
or moves only one hex, rolls 3 battle dice in melee.
•	 A two or three block horse artillery unit that moves 2 hexes 
may not melee.
•	 A horse artillery unit that has only one block remaining and 
does not move will roll 2 battle dice in melee combat.
•	 A horse artillery unit that has only one block remaining may 
not move and melee.
Foot and Horse Artillery melee combat modifiers are detailed 
on the National Unit Reference Cards.
5. Apply Command card Dice Additions: Some Command 
cards increase the number of battle dice that a unit rolls in melee 
combat. (See national Unit Reference cards) 
6. Apply Terrain Battle Dice Reduction (if any): The terrain on 
which the target unit is on and in some cases the terrain the attack-
ing unit is on may reduce the number of battle dice rolled in melee 
combat. Reduce the number of battle dice rolled accordingly. 
Refer to the section on Terrain for battle dice adjustments.
7. Resolve Combat: Roll the resulting number of battle dice 
against the target; hits are resolved first, followed by retreats.8. 
Score Hits: In melee combat, the attacker scores 1 hit for each 
troop symbol rolled that matches the target unit and 1 hit for each 
saber symbol rolled. A saber symbol scores 1 hit regardless of the 
troop type being targeted. Other symbols rolled are a miss.

Melee Combat Roll
Score 1 hit on Infantry unit
Score 1 hit on Cavalry unit 
Score 1 hit on Artillery unit 
Score 1 hit in melee on any unit or an unattached 
leader. Militia units and rifle light infantry are an ex-
ception. A saber rolled by militia or rifle light infantry 
does not score a hit against enemy units in melee, but a saber 
rolled by militia or rifle light infantry against an unattached 
leader will hit and eliminate the leader.
A flag does not cause a hit, but may cause the unit to 
retreat.
For each hit scored, 1 block is removed from the target unit. 
When the last block in the opponent’s unit is removed, you col-
lect a Victory Banner block. If a player rolls more hits than the 
number of pieces in the enemy unit, these additional hits have 
no effect.
Hitting a Leader: When you target an enemy unit with an at-
tached leader in melee combat and score a hit on the unit, the 
attached leader must take a Leader Casualty check. A leader when 
not attached to a unit (alone in a hex) may be attacked normally 
in melee. See Leader Casualty Checks rule section.
9. Apply Retreats: A flag does not cause a hit, but may cause the 
unit to retreat. See Retreats rule section. A unit unable to retreat 
for any reason will lose blocks, and will trigger a casualty check 
for an attached leader.
10. Additional Combat Actions: See rule sections for Taking 
Ground, Cavalry Breakthrough and Bonus Melee Attack.
11. Battle Back: The defending enemy unit may Battle Back 
against an attacking unit, if one or more of the defending unit’s 
blocks survived the melee combat attack and the defending unit 
did not retreat from its hex. The attacking player’s unit, that 
conducted the initial attack, is now considered in a defending 
posture. 
During a Battle Back the unit calculates its strength, any terrain 
battle dice reduction, rolls the battle dice, determines hits and 
retreats, and applies them in the same manner as the attacker.
After the defending player’s Battle Back, the melee will stop; 
i.e. there is never any Battle Back on a Battle Back.
•	 If the defending unit is forced to retreat out of its original hex, 
it may not Battle Back, even if its retreat move places the unit 
in a hex that is still adjacent to the attacking unit.
•	 If the defending unit was unable to fulfill a required retreat, 
it may Battle Back as long as it still has one or more blocks 
remaining on the battlefield after taking block losses for not 
completing its retreat.
•	 A defending unit that is Battling Back may not Take Ground, 
conduct Cavalry Breakthrough or take a Bonus Melee Attack.
•	 A First Strike Command card may not be played against a unit 
that is Battling Back.
•	 A defending unit being attacked in melee by more than one 
enemy unit may Battle Back against each attacking unit so 
long as the defending unit is not eliminated or retreated. Each 
melee and battle back is resolved one unit at a time.
LEADER CASUALTY CHECK
Your opponent will always roll for your Leader Casualty check. 
When a leader is hit, remove the leader block from the battlefield 
and collect a Victory Banner.
Attached Leader: When a leader is attached 
to a unit and the unit loses one or more blocks 
without being eliminated, there is a chance that 
the leader may also be hit. Make a leader casualty check by roll-
ing 2 battle dice. To hit the leader two saber symbols must be 
A leader casualty check must be made when a unit loses a 
block from:
•	 Ranged Combat
•	 Melee Combat
•	 Failure to complete a retreat move
Only one leader casualty check is required from a single combat 
dice roll. For example, when a unit with an attached leader is 
attacked and the unit loses one or more blocks from the combat 
dice rolled, after the combat loss blocks are removed, there is a 
leader casualty check. If the unit is also forced to retreat, but the 
unit the leader is with cannot complete its entire retreat move-
ment, the unit must also lose additional blocks, another leader 
casualty check is not required, because the same combat dice 
roll caused the retreat block losses.
Attached Leader’s Unit Eliminated: When a leader 
is attached to a unit and the unit loses one or more 
blocks, eliminating the unit and leaving the leader alone 
in the hex the leader casualty check is made with 1 battle die. To 
hit the leader a saber symbol must be rolled. If the leader is not 
hit, the leader must retreat 1, 2, or 3 hexes. If the leader is on a 
friendly map edge hex, he must retreat off the map. A leader that 
retreats off his friendly map edge hex does not give your op-
ponent a Victory Banner.
When a leader is attached to a unit that is forced to retreat and the 
unit has all of its blocks eliminated because it could not complete 
its retreat movement, the leader must retreat from the hex where 
the last unit block was removed. 
If a unit loses its last block because enemy units occupy the only 
possible retreat path hexes, the leader must use “Escape” rules 
to move through one of the enemy units and reach an open or 
friendly hex.
When a unit loses its last block at the map edge because it cannot 
retreat further, the leader must retreat off the map edge. A leader 
that retreats off a friendly map edge hex does not give your op-
ponent a Victory Banner.

When a unit loses its last block because its retreat path is occupied 
by impassable terrain hexes, the attached leader is also eliminated 
if it too cannot retreat into the hex. In this instance, the leader’s 
elimination yields a Victory Banner to the opponent.
When a unit is eliminated any flags rolled against an eliminated 
unit have no effect on the leader, however the leader, after the 
leader casualty check, must retreat 1, 2, or 3 hexes.
When a leader’s unit is eliminated in melee combat, the attacking 
unit may Take Ground or Cavalry Breakthrough onto the vacated 
hex after the leader retreats from the hex.
Unattached Leader: A leader alone in a hex may not be targeted 
in ranged combat but an unattached leader may be attacked in me-
lee. When a leader is alone in a hex, the attacking enemy unit rolls 
its normal melee battle dice. One or more saber symbols rolled 
will score a hit and eliminate the leader, even from a unit that 
normally does not score a hit on a saber roll in melee combat. If 
the leader is not hit, the leader must retreat 1, 2, or 3 hexes. Flags 
rolled against the leader have no effect on the unattached leader. 
The attacking unit may Take Ground or Cavalry Breakthrough 
onto the vacated hex, after the leader retreats from the hex.
RETREATS
After all combat hits have been resolved and blocks removed, 
retreats are resolved. For each retreat flag rolled against a unit, 
the unit must move one hex back toward its own side of the 
battlefield. Two flags will force the unit back two hexes, etc. 
(Exception: Militia units retreat three hexes per flag). The player 
controlling the retreating unit decides which hex the unit retreats 
onto, using the following rules:
•	 A unit must always retreat toward its controlling player’s side 
of the board, regardless of what direction the attack came from. 
Units may not retreat toward the opponent’s side of the board 
or sideways.
•	 Terrain that is not impassable has no effect on retreat moves, 
therefore a retreating unit may move onto or through a forest, 
a fordable river, etc., without stopping. Impassable terrain 
features, however, will prevent a unit’s retreat, resulting in 
block loss, possible elimination, and possible leader loss.
•	 A unit may not retreat onto, or through, a hex already containing 
another friendly unit or an enemy unit or enemy leader.
•	 An attached leader must retreat with its unit when the unit is 
forced to retreat.
•	 Leaders Stop Retreats: A unit without an attached leader may 
retreat onto a hex that contains an unattached friendly leader 
(i.e. a leader alone in a hex). The leader is immediately attached 
to that unit and the unit’s retreat stops in the leader’s hex. The 
retreating unit will ignore any additional retreat movement.
•	 If the unit cannot retreat, because its retreat path is occupied 
or it is forced to retreat off the limits of the battlefield, one 
block must be removed from the unit for each retreat hex of 
movement that cannot be completed.
•	 A militia unit must move three hexes back toward its own side 
of the battlefield for each retreat flag rolled against it.
Specific unit retreat movement modifiers are detailed on the 
National Unit Reference Cards.
Bolster Morale
Some situations allow a unit to disregard one or more flags rolled 
against it. Disregarding a flag result is optional and the owning 
player may always decide to accept a flag result. If more than 
one flag result can be ignored, the owning player can choose 
to ignore one (or more) and accept one (or more). A unit may 
choose to disregard flags rolled against it each time it is attacked. 
If more than one of the following situations applies, the effects 
are cumulative.
•	 A unit may disregard one flag when a leader is attached to 
the unit. If the unit loses one or more blocks in combat, the 
leader must survive the leader casualty check for the unit to 
ignore the flag. Note after all combat losses are resolved, this 
includes leader casualty checks, and blocks removed, retreats 
are resolved. 
•	 A unit may disregard one flag when supported by two or more 
friendly units. Supporting units may be on any hexes that are 
adjacent to the unit.
•	 A leader when alone in a hex may act as one adjacent support 
and can provide support just as a friendly unit does. 
•	 A square may act as one adjacent support unit for units not in 
square, however a unit in square may not receive support from 
friendly units and leaders in adjacent hexes.
•	 Some terrain features will allow a unit defending on the terrain 
to ignore one flag. See Terrain rule section.
•	 A Grenadier unit may ignore one flag.
•	 A Cuirassier heavy cavalry unit may ignore one flag.
•	 A Guard unit may ignore one or two flags (See National Unit 
Reference Cards).
•	 Cavalry can never ignore a bounce flag result from an infantry 
unit in square regardless of how many retreat flags they 
normally could ignore.
Specific unit Morale modifiers are detailed on the National Unit 
Reference Cards.
Leader’s Retreat
Leaders retreat somewhat differently from units. A leader’s retreat 
movement is 1, 2, or 3 hexes back towards its own side of the 
battlefield, the owning player’s choice.
•	 A leader, attached to a unit that must retreat, will retreat to the 
same hex as the attached unit.
•	 When a leader is attached to a unit and the unit loses its last 
block by ranged combat, melee combat, or because the unit 
cannot complete its entire retreat move, if the leader is not 
eliminated on the leader casualty check, the leader must retreat 
1, 2, or 3 hexes.
•	 When an unattached leader is attacked in melee combat, if the 
leader is not eliminated, he must retreat 1, 2, or 3 hexes.
You may choose to retreat your leader off your side of the 
battlefield. This saves the leader from becoming a Victory Ban-
ner for your opponent, but you lose a strong command piece by 
doing so.
When a leader retreats he must follow these rules:
•	 A leader’s retreat movement is 1, 2, or 3 hexes back towards 

its controlling player’s side of the battlefield. The player who 
controls the leader determines the number of hexes he will 
move, and the path he will take as he retreats.
•	 Terrain that is not impassable has no effect on retreat moves, 
therefore a retreating leader may move onto or through a forest, 
a fordable river, etc., without stopping. Impassable terrain will 
prevent a retreat movement, and a leader unable to retreat one 
hex due to impassible terrain will be eliminated. The opponent 
gains one Victory Banner when the leader is eliminated.
•	 A leader may not end his retreat movement in a hex that contains 
another friendly leader, an enemy unit or enemy leader.
•	 A leader may retreat through a hex that only contains a friendly 
unit or may choose to stop his retreat in the hex and attach to 
the unit.
•	 A leader may retreat through a hex that contains a friendly unit 
with a leader or an unattached friendly leader.
•	 A leader retreating through a unit’s hex does not affect a unit.
•	 A retreating leader may retreat through a hex containing an en-
emy unit, but this is governed by the rules for Leader Escape.
Leader Escape
When enemy units occupy a leader’s designated retreat path, 
the retreating leader must attempt to escape through the enemy 
occupied hex.
Leader Escape Procedure: Move the leader onto the enemy 
hex and allow the enemy unit in the hex to battle the leader. The 
attacking unit uses its normal number of melee combat dice. 
The leader does not benefit from terrain in the hex. One or more 
saber symbols rolled will score a hit and eliminate the leader, 
even from a unit that normally does not score a hit on a saber 
roll in melee combat. The opponent gains one Victory Banner 
when the leader is eliminated.
If the leader is not hit, his escape is successful and he continues 
with his retreat move. Should an enemy unit also occupy this 
hex, the leader must again undergo the Escape procedure. Should 
the third hex also be occupied by an enemy unit, the leader is 
eliminated and the opponent gains a Victory Banner.
Leader Escape Examples
LC
LI
1) An enemy Line Infantry unit (with two 
blocks) and a Light Cavalry unit (with three 
blocks) occupy the two hexes behind a lone 
leader who must retreat. The hexes behind 
these two enemy units are vacant. The 
leader chooses to retreat through the hex with 
the two Line Infantry blocks because the 
opposing player will only roll two dice in-
stead of the three dice the Light cavalry unit 
would roll. The opposing player rolls two dice and gets one In-
fantry symbol and one Artillery symbol. Since no saber symbols 
were rolled, the leader successfully escapes and finishes the 
Retreat after moving one or two more hexes.
2) The hex behind a lone leader is vacant. The 
next hex is occupied by a three block enemy 
heavy cavalry unit. A friendly unit without a 
leader occupies the hex behind the heavy cavalry 
unit. The leader could make a one hex Retreat 
onto the vacant hex, but elects to Retreat three 
hexes, ending on the hex with the friendly unit. 
Upon entering the second hex containing the 
heavy cavalry unit, the Retreat move halts, and 
the opposing player rolls four dice (heavy cavalry 
melees with 1 extra die), obtaining two flags and 
two infantry symbols. Since no saber symbols were rolled, the 
leader successfully escapes and continues the Retreat move onto 
the third and final hex containing the friendly unit.
LI
LC
3) The only available Retreat path has an enemy 
two block Infantry unit on the first hex and an 
enemy light cavalry three block unit on the second 
hex. The retreating leader moves onto the first 
hex and halts while the opposing player rolls two 
dice for the infantry unit, obtaining a flag and a 
cavalry symbol. The escape succeeds, but the 
leader now must undergo another escape attempt 
as the leader is moved onto the second hex. The 
opposing player rolls three dice for the cavalry 
unit, and obtains two saber symbols and one flag. 
Only one saber is needed, and the leader is hit and eliminated, 
one hex short of safety. The opposing player earns one Victory 
Banner for the eliminated leader.
ADDITIONAL COMBAT ACTIONS
During the combat phase, after a melee combat an attacking unit 
may be entitled to take one or more additional actions. These 
actions are defined below.
Infantry Taking Ground
When an ordered infantry unit attacks in melee combat and 
eliminates or forces the defending enemy unit or leader to re-
treat from the hex it occupies, the infantry unit has conducted a 
successful melee combat. The victorious attacking infantry unit 
may advance (move) onto that vacated hex. This is referred to 
as Taking Ground.
•	 Taking Ground is never mandatory; it remains the attacking 
player’s choice.
•	 Taking Ground is subject to normal terrain movement 
restrictions.
•	 An infantry unit that attacks a cavalry unit may Take Ground 
after the cavalry unit chooses to Retire and Reform.
•	 An infantry unit that attacks a leader alone in a hex may Take 
Ground after the leader retreats or is eliminated.
•	 A unit in square cannot Take Ground after a successful melee 
Artillery Taking Ground
An Artillery unit attacking in melee may not Take Ground.
Friendly
Unit
HC

Cavalry Breakthrough
When an ordered cavalry unit attacks in melee combat and 
eliminates or forces the defending enemy unit or leader to retreat 
from the hex it occupies, the cavalry unit has conducted a suc-
cessful melee combat. The victorious attacking cavalry unit may 
advance (move) onto the vacated hex, after advancing onto the 
vacated hex, the cavalry unit may then move one additional hex. 
The advance onto the hex and the additional hex of movement 
is referred to as a Cavalry Breakthrough.
•	 A Cavalry Breakthrough is never mandatory; it remains the 
attacking player’s choice.
•	 The one additional hex of movement, after the cavalry unit 
moves onto the just vacated enemy hex, is never mandatory. 
A cavalry unit that only moves onto the just vacated enemy 
hex is still considered to be on breakthrough.
•	 A cavalry unit that moves onto the just vacated enemy hex 
and then returns to its original hex is still considered to be on 
a Cavalry Breakthrough.
•	 The movement on a Cavalry Breakthrough is subject to normal 
terrain movement restrictions.
•	 A cavalry unit that attacks a leader alone in a hex may break-
through onto the vacated hex after the leader retreats or is 
eliminated.
Take Ground and Cavalry Breakthrough 
Limitations
The following situations do not allow a unit to Take Ground or 
conduct Cavalry Breakthrough:
•	 Ranged combat attacks never give the attacking unit the 
opportunity to Take Ground.
•	 An artillery unit attacking in melee may not Take Ground. 
•	 A defending unit that is Battling Back may not Take Ground 
or conduct Cavalry Breakthrough.
•	 A defending unit that uses the First Strike Command card 
against an attacking unit is not eligible to Take Ground or 
conduct Cavalry Breakthrough.
Cavalry Bonus Attack
After a successful melee combat a cavalry unit that makes a 
breakthrough is eligible to battle in melee combat a second time. 
This second melee is called a Bonus Attack.
•	 Only cavalry units, after a successful melee, are entitled to a 
Bonus Attack. An infantry or artillery unit may not make a 
Bonus Attack.
•	 If a cavalry unit does not move onto the vacant hex, it forfeits 
the opportunity to make a Bonus Attack, even if it is adjacent 
to other enemy units.
•	 A Bonus Attack action is optional. The cavalry unit, after a 
successful melee, is not forced to breakthrough and attack 
again.
•	 The target of the Bonus Attack does not have to be the same 
unit as the original unit that was attacked in melee, even if the 
original target is still adjacent.
•	 Terrain movement and combat restrictions apply to a Bonus 
Attack the same as they do to normal melee attacks.
•	 A cavalry unit may only make one Bonus Attack on a turn.
•	 An attacking cavalry unit that eliminates or forces the enemy 
unit to retreat on its Bonus Attack may move onto the vacated 
hex. It may not move an additional hex nor is it eligible for 
another Bonus Attack.
•	 A cavalry unit’s initial melee combat, Cavalry Breakthrough 
and Bonus Attack must all be completed before beginning the 
next unit’s combat.
•	 A Combined Arms Combat may be declared with a Bonus 
Attack.
Defending Unit’s Battle Back
In a melee combat, the defending enemy unit may Battle Back 
against the attacking unit if one or more of the defending unit’s 
blocks survived the melee combat attack and the defending unit did 
not retreat from its hex. The attacking player’s unit, that conducted 
the initial attack, is now considered in a defending posture. 
During a Battle Back the unit calculates its strength, any terrain 
battle dice reduction, rolls the battle dice, determines hits and 
retreats, and applies them in the same manner as the attacker.
After the defending player’s Battle Back, the melee will stop; 
i.e. there is never any Battle Back on a Battle Back.
•	 If the defending unit is forced to retreat out of its original hex, 
it may not Battle Back, even if its retreat move places the unit 
in a hex that is still adjacent to the attacking unit.
•	 If the defending unit was unable to fulfill a required retreat, 
it may Battle Back as long as it still has one or more blocks 
remaining on the battlefield after taking block losses for not 
completing its retreat.
•	 A defending unit that is Battling Back may not Take Ground, 
conduct Cavalry Breakthrough or take a Bonus Melee 
Attack.
•	 A First Strike Command card may not be played against a unit 
that is Battling Back.
Phase 5.
END OF TURN & END GAME
After completing all movement and resolving all hits, retreats 
and additional combat actions for all ordered units, discard the 
Command card played and draw another Command card from 
the deck. Your turn is over.
When a defending player has used the First Strike Command 
card during the turn, he draws a replacement card at the end of 
the turn before the active player. 
If the draw deck runs out of cards, shuffle the discards to form 
a new draw deck. A new draw deck is also formed after the play 
of the Élan Command card. The discards are shuffled back with 
the draw deck to form a new draw deck.
End Game and Victory Conditions
Players alternate taking turns, until one player reaches the 
number of Victory Banners indicated by the scenario’s victory 
conditions.

In addition to capturing Victory Banners through the elimination 
of enemy units, in some scenarios capturing certain terrain hexes 
or accomplishing other battle specific objectives can win addi-
tional Victory Banners. Such victory conditions will be spelled 
out in the scenario’s battle notes.
A game ends the moment a player reaches his required number 
of Victory Banners, regardless of when this occurs during a game 
turn. This means that a game might even end on a successful 
Battle Back with victory for the active player’s opponent.
6. NAPOLEONIC TACTICS 
AND ACTIONS
CAVALRY RETIRE AND REFORM
When being attacked in melee by an enemy infantry unit (includ-
ing Combined Arms Combats), a cavalry unit may choose to 
Retire and Reform instead of staying and fighting in the melee.
Before an infantry unit is about to melee an enemy cavalry 
unit, the attacking player must ask if the cavalry unit is going to 
Retire and Reform. The defending player must then declare that 
the cavalry unit will Retire and Reform or that the cavalry unit 
will not Retire and Reform, before the attacking infantry unit 
rolls its battle dice.
A cavalry unit may not Retire and Reform if it cannot retire 2 
hexes towards its side of the battlefield. Occupied hexes, im-
passable terrain and the edge of the battlefield may prevent the 
cavalry unit from retiring 2 hexes.
When the cavalry unit does not choose to Retire and Reform, or 
cannot Retire and Reform, the melee is resolved normally.
Before the cavalry unit conducts Retire and Reform 
movement, the attacking infantry unit determines and 
rolls the proper number of melee battle dice against the 
EXAMPLE: The opposing player draws one card from the 
player’s hand and places it on the owning player’s Infantry In 
Square Track. The corresponding Square marker is placed on 
the map adjacent to the unit.
cavalry unit. Artillery battle dice in a Combined Arms Combat 
are still rolled along with the infantry battle dice before the 
cavalry unit conducts Retire and Reform movement. Only the 
cavalry icons will score a hit when a cavalry unit Retire and 
Reforms. All other symbols, including sabers and flags, are ig-
nored. If the cavalry unit receives a hit and has an attached 
leader, a leader’s casualty check is made. After the attacking 
infantry unit’s dice roll, the cavalry unit’s Retire and Reform 
movement of 2 hexes toward its own side of the battlefield is 
made.
•	 The attacking infantry may Take Ground after a cavalry unit 
vacates the hex.
•	 A cavalry unit may not Battle Back when it elects to Retire and 
Reform, even if it ends in a hex that is adjacent to the infantry 
unit that was making the melee attack.
•	 A cavalry unit may not Retire and Reform when an infantry 
unit Battles Back.
•	 An attacking cavalry unit may not Retire and Reform when a 
defending infantry unit plays a First Strike command card.
INFANTRY SQUARE
An Infantry Square is a defensive formation used 
by infantry units to counter an enemy cavalry melee 
attack. While an infantry unit is in square it may 
not move, but may be ordered to battle. While in square, the 
maximum number of battle dice an infantry unit may ever roll 
in ranged combat or in melee is 1 die. Nothing will increase the 
number of battle dice an infantry unit in square may roll, except 
when an infantry square is ordered as part of a Combined Arms 
Combat. An infantry square’s battle die however, may be reduced 
by terrain modifiers so the infantry unit in square may not have 
a die to roll.
Forming Square and Combat
An infantry unit with any number of blocks may choose to form 
square during the opponent’s turn before a cavalry unit is about 
to melee attack the infantry unit. The attacking cavalry player 
EXAMPLE: The cavalry unit is attacked and the French player 
announces he would like to Retire and Reform. The British player 
is first allowed to roll four dice (for his four blocks) hitting on only 
cavalry symbols. If the French cavalry unit survives the attack 
it must retire two hexes towards the friendly side of the board. 
Hexes marked A are prohibited since each hex moved must be 
closer to the friendly board edge. Hexes B and C are prohibited 
since B is occupied and C is impassable terrain. The only legal 
destination hex is D.

must ask if the infantry unit is going to form square. The player 
in control of the infantry must make the choice to form square 
or take on the full force of the cavalry attack.
An infantry unit may not form square in the following situa-
tions:
•	 When you hold two or fewer Command cards in your hand.
•	 When the infantry unit is on certain terrain hexes, see Terrain 
rule section.
•	 When a cavalry unit is Battling Back.
•	 When an infantry unit is attacking a cavalry unit in melee and 
the cavalry unit plays a First Strike Command card.
•	 When all spaces on a player’s square track are filled with 
Command cards.
If the infantry unit does not choose to form square, the cavalry 
melee attack is resolved normally.
When the infantry unit chooses to form square, the attacking 
cavalry player selects one card at random from the defending 
infantry player’s hand of Command cards. The attacking player 
cannot look at the card selected. The card is placed face down 
on the defending player’s Infantry in Square Track and the cor-
responding Numbered Square counter is placed on the infantry 
unit’s hex to indicate the unit is in square. A player may, at any 
time, look at the cards on his infantry in square track, but these 
cards can never be moved around on the track.
NOTE: An Infantry in Square counter does not count as a block 
that can be removed to satisfy combat or retreat losses.
When a cavalry unit has caused an infantry unit to form square, 
the infantry unit in square will battle first with 1 die, even though 
the opponent is the active player (an exception to the normal 
melee combat sequence).
EXAMPLE OF ATTACKING AN INFANTRY SQUARE:
French Player’s Turn
1. A French cavalry unit is ordered to attack a British infantry 
unit and the British infantry unit chooses to form square.
2. A Command card is selected at random from the British 
player’s hand of cards. The card selected is placed on the Brit-
ish Infantry in Square Track and the corresponding Numbered 
Square counter is placed on the British infantry’s hex.
3. The British infantry in square battles first with 1 die against the 
French cavalry unit. If the British infantry rolls a flag (referred to 
as a bounce flag) the French cavalry unit must retreat; a Leader 
with the cavalry has no effect against a bounce flag.
4. If the French cavalry was not eliminated or forced to retreat, 
the French cavalry unit will attack with 1 die against the British 
infantry unit in square.
British Player’s Turn
1. The British player orders his infantry unit in square to attack 
the French cavalry unit.
2. The French cavalry unit may choose to Retire and Reform. 
With only one die to be rolled by the square, the cavalry unit 
chooses to stay and melee.
3. The British infantry in square battles with 1 die against the 
French cavalry unit. If the British infantry rolls a flag the French 
cavalry unit must retreat.
4. If the French cavalry was not eliminated or forced to retreat, 
the French cavalry unit will battle back with 1 die against the 
British infantry unit in square.
French Player’s Turn
1. A French infantry unit is ordered to move up and attack the 
British infantry unit in square. The French cavalry unit is also 
ordered to attack the British infantry unit in square.
2. The French infantry unit battles in melee against the British 
unit in square with its normal number of melee battle dice.
3. If the British infantry unit in square is not eliminated it may 
battle back in melee with 1 die against the French infantry unit.
4. The French Cavalry unit announces it is going to melee against 
the square.
5. The British infantry in square battles first with 1 die against 
the French cavalry unit. If the British infantry rolls a flag the 
French cavalry unit must retreat.
6. If the French cavalry was not eliminated or forced to retreat, 
the French cavalry unit will attack with 1 die against the British 
infantry unit in square.

The maximum number of battle dice an infantry unit in square 
may roll in melee combat is 1 die. Command card additional 
dice and troop type additions will not increase the number of 
dice a square will roll. Terrain modifiers, however, may reduce 
an infantry unit’s battle dice. An infantry unit therefore may not 
have a die to roll.
An infantry unit in square when ordered as a Combined Arms 
Combat, will add to its 1 battle die the artillery’s dice from the 
Combined Arms Combat.
Bounce Flag: Anytime an infantry unit in square rolls 
a flag against an adjacent cavalry unit, it will force the 
cavalry unit to bounce away from the square. A bounce 
flag rolled against a cavalry unit by an infantry unit in 
square may not be ignored for any reason. If the cavalry unit 
cannot retreat, one block is lost for each retreat hex the cavalry 
unit cannot complete.
Note: All flags rolled in a square plus artillery Combined Arms 
Combat are considered bounce flags.
If the cavalry unit is not eliminated or forced to retreat from its 
hex when being attacked by the infantry in square, the cavalry 
unit may melee against the infantry square with a maximum of 
1 battle die. Command card additional dice and troop type ad-
ditions will not increase the number of battle dice a cavalry unit 
will roll against the square. Terrain modifiers, however, may 
reduce a cavalry unit’s battle dice. A cavalry unit therefore may 
not have a die to roll. A cavalry unit attacking a square when 
ordered as a part of Combined Arms Combat will add to its 1 
battle die the artillery’s dice from the Combined Arms Combat 
(See Combined Arms Combat).
A cavalry unit that is being attacked in melee by an enemy in-
fantry unit in square may play a First Strike Command card. The 
cavalry unit will still only roll 1 battle die against the infantry 
Infantry Squares vs. Infantry & Artillery Units: An infantry 
or artillery unit may engage an enemy infantry unit in square 
with ranged combat normally. An individual infantry or artillery 
unit will also melee normally against an enemy infantry unit 
in square, battling first against the enemy square. If the square 
is not eliminated in melee, the square may then Battle Back in 
melee with 1 die. It is also possible for an individual infantry unit 
to melee against an enemy square as part of a Combined Arms 
Combat along with one or more friendly ordered artillery units 
(See Combined Arms Combat).
Infantry Squares and Retreats: An infantry unit in square, 
because it cannot move, will lose one block for each retreat hex 
the unit cannot complete. If the infantry unit’s retreat movement 
is more than one hex for a flag, the unit will take multiple losses 
for each flag rolled against it. An infantry unit in square may 
ignore one or more flags when a leader is attached and/or the 
unit’s troop type allows it to ignore a flag.
Support: A square may act as one adjacent support unit for units 
not in square, however a unit in square may not receive support 
from friendly units /and leaders in adjacent hexes. 
Infantry Squares and Attached Leaders: A leader attached to 
an infantry unit in square cannot be issued an order to detach. 
However, when the unit is ordered to come out of square, the 
leader may also be ordered to detach on the same turn using an 
additional order.
Infantry Squares Attacking: An infantry unit in square can be 
given an order to battle. An infantry unit in square may engage 
in ranged combat when there are no enemy units in an adjacent 
hex. The maximum number of battle dice an infantry unit in 
square may roll in ranged combat is 1 die. An infantry square 
may also be ordered to melee combat. The maximum number of 
battle dice an infantry unit in square may roll in melee combat 
is 1 die. A unit in square cannot Take Ground after a successful 
melee combat. An infantry unit in square may be ordered as part 
of a Combined Arms Combat. It will add its 1 battle die to the 
artillery’s dice from the Combined Arms Combat.
Coming out of Square
It is important to note that an infantry square is formed during 
the opponent’s combat phase, while an infantry unit in square 
may only be ordered to come out of square during the active 
player’s order phase.
An infantry unit in square may not be ordered out of square 
when there is an enemy cavalry unit on any adjacent hex. The 
cavalry unit prevents the infantry unit from being ordered out 
of square.
If there are no enemy cavalry units on an adjacent hex, an infantry 
unit in square may be given an order and come out of square. 
The numbered Infantry in Square Counter is removed from the 
hex and returned to the Infantry in Square Track and the Com-
mand card is taken from infantry in square track and returned 
to the player’s hand. 
The infantry unit coming out of square suffers no movement 
or combat penalties. It may move and/or battle normally. For 
example, an infantry unit coming out of square that does not 
move may conduct ranged combat without any movement battle 
dice reduction.
When a unit in square’s last block is eliminated and removed, the 
numbered Infantry in Square counter is removed from the hex 
and returned to the Infantry in Square Track and the Command 
card is taken from the track and returned to the player’s hand.
COMBINED ARMS COMBAT
When an ordered infantry or cavalry unit is about to attack an 
enemy unit in melee, one or more ordered artillery units may com-
bine their battle dice with the attacking unit. A combined arms 
combat must be declared before any battle dice are rolled.
All ordered artillery units in the combined arms combat must be 
in range and have a clear line of sight to enemy unit that is being 
attacked. An Artillery unit on a hill may not combine arms if it 
must fire over the heads of a friendly unit on a lower adjacent 
hex. To participate in a Combined Arms Combat, the artillery 
unit must have an unobstructed line of sight path to the targeted 
enemy. No units or terrain may occupy the line of sight path in 
a declared combined arms combat.

Combined Arms Combat Procedure
The infantry or cavalry unit determines the number of battle dice 
it will roll in the melee combat including any terrain reductions. 
The artillery unit determines the number of battle dice it will roll 
including any terrain reductions. The artillery’s battle dice are 
added to the battle dice of the friendly unit making the melee 
attack. All the dice are rolled together at the same time. There 
may be an occasion where the infantry or cavalry unit battle dice 
result is zero. The artillery unit engaging in combined arms will 
still roll its determined number of battle dice.
In a Combined Arms Combat, even though the artillery unit 
may not be in melee, each saber symbol rolled will score a hit. 
However, when an artillery unit engages in combined arms with 
a unit that does not hit on sabers in melee, the artillery dice added 
to the melee will also not hit on sabers. 
When an artillery unit and the attacking unit are both adjacent to 
the enemy unit being attacked with combined arms, if the enemy 
unit Battles Back it must fight against the infantry or cavalry unit, 
not against the artillery. 
Any ordered artillery included in a Combined Arms Combat 
with a cavalry unit that melees an enemy infantry unit in square 
can lose its Combined Arms Combat. This will happen if the 
infantry unit in square, when fighting first, either eliminates the 
cavalry unit or causes the cavalry unit to bounce retreat. The 
artillery unit’s combined arms battle dice are lost, because the 
cavalry attack is repulsed before the cavalry unit could make 
the melee attack.
If a defending unit plays a First Strike card against an infantry 
or cavalry Combined Arms Combat and either eliminates the 
attacking infantry or cavalry unit or forces it to retreat, the 
artillery’s combined arms dice are lost because no attacker melee 
occurred.
7. TERRAIN
Terrain tiles are placed on the battlefield when setting up a sce-
nario and will remain in place and in effect for the entire game 
unless a scenario specifies removal.
FOREST
Movement: A unit or leader that enters a Forest hex 
must stop and may move no further on that turn. An 
infantry unit may form square on a Forest hex.
Battle: A unit may not battle the turn it moves onto a Forest hex. 
Light infantry, Young Guard, rifle light infantry and other light 
infantry type units are the exception. These units may move onto 
a Forest hex and still battle when eligible.
When targeting an enemy unit or leader on a Forest hex:
•	 An infantry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1.
•	 A cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 2. 
•	 An artillery unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1. 
When battling out of a Forest hex:
•	 An infantry unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
•	 A cavalry unit on a Forest hex battling out reduces the number 
of battle dice rolled by 2.
•	 An artillery unit on a Forest hex battling out will reduce the 
number of battle dice it will roll by 1.
Line of Sight: A Forest hex blocks line of sight.
HILL
Movement: No movement restrictions. An infantry 
unit may form square on a Hill hex.
EXAMPLE: The Artillery unit on the hill can provide Combined 
Arms fire to the melee attack at A because its Line of Sight is not 
blocked by any units or terrain. It may NOT provide Combined 
Arms fire at B because it cannot fire over the friendly unit meleeing 
the target unit B.
EXAMPLE: A French cavalry unit is attacking an infantry unit in 
square, with combined arms from an artillery unit. The British Line 
Infantry unit in square rolls first and rolls a flag (Bounce Back). The 
cavalry unit is forced to retreat and the combined arms attack is lost. 
Had the British player not rolled a flag, the French player would 
roll one die for his cavalry unit and one die for his Horse Artillery 
unit (3 blocks firing at a range of three hexes).

by one or more intervening hexes of lower elevation unless those 
hexes contain a unit or terrain that blocks line of sight.
EXAMPLE: The unit on the Hill hex has a clear Line of Sight to 
all hexes that are not marked with “LOS Blocked.”
RUGGED HILL
Movement: Not allowed. No unit may enter a 
Rugged Hill hex.
Battle: Prohibited
Line of Sight: A Rugged Hill hex blocks line of sight to units 
behind a Rugged Hill hex.
TOWN OR WINDMILL 
(Buildings)
Movement: A unit or leader that enters a 
Town/Windmill hex must stop and may 
move no further on that turn. An infantry unit may not form 
square on a Town/Windmill hex.
Battle: A unit may not battle the turn it moves onto a Town/
Windmill hex.
When targeting an enemy unit or leader that is on a Town/Wind-
mill hex:
•	 An infantry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 2.
•	 A cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 3. 
A cavalry unit ordered by a Cavalry Charge Command card 
battling onto a Town/Windmill hex will not receive additional 
battle dice as noted on the Charge card.
•	 An artillery unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1. 
When battling out of a Town/Windmill hex:
•	 An infantry unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
•	 A cavalry unit on a Town/Windmill hex battling out reduces 
the number of battle dice rolled by 3. A cavalry unit ordered 
by a Cavalry Charge Command card battling out of a Town/
Windmill hex will not receive additional battle dice as noted 
on the Charge card.
•	 An artillery unit on a Town/Windmill hex battling out will 
reduce the number of battle dice it will roll by 1.
Line of Sight: A Town/Windmill hex blocks line of sight.
Battle: When targeting an enemy unit or leader that is up hill:
•	 An infantry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1.
•	 A cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1. 
•	 An artillery unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
When targeting an enemy unit or leader that is down hill:
• An infantry unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
•	 A cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1.
•	 An artillery unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
An artillery unit on a Hill hex may fire over a friendly unit or 
leader that is on an adjacent lower hex as long as that hex has 
no other terrain feature that would block the artillery unit’s line 
of sight. An Artillery unit on a hill, however, may not be ordered 
as part of a Combined Arms Combat if it has to fire over the 
heads of a friendly unit on a lower adjacent hex (See Combined 
Arms Combat).
EXAMPLE: When on a Hill hex an artillery unit can fire over 
friendly units on a lower adjacent hex. Exception: cannot do so 
for Combined Arms.
When on a Hill hex and targeting an enemy unit or leader that 
is on another Hill hex:
•	 An infantry unit will reduce it range combat dice by 1, but its 
melee dice are not reduced. 
• 	A cavalry unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
• 	An artillery unit does not reduce the number of battle dice 
Line of Sight: A Hill hex blocks line of sight to units behind a 
Hill hex.
A unit on a lower level has line of sight onto the first Hill hex 
and vice versa.
A unit on a lower level does not have line of sight through one 
Hill hex onto a second Hill hex with a unit and vice versa (i.e. a 
unit at a lower level is not able to see, or be seen, if at least one 
other Hill hex is in between the two units).
Line of sight is not blocked between units on the same hill look-
ing across connected Hill hexes. The units are considered to be 
on a plateau.
Line of sight is not blocked between units on Hill hexes separated 

FIELD WORKS
Movement: A unit or leader that moves 
across a hex side with Field Works must 
stop and may move no further on that turn. 
An infantry unit may not form a square 
on a Field Works hex.
Battle: A Field Works provides protection along the forward 
facing hex sides.
When targeting an enemy unit or leader on a Field Works hex 
through Field Works hexsides:
•	 An attacking infantry unit reduces the number of battle dice 
rolled by 1.
•	 An attacking cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice 
rolled by 2.
•	 An attacking artillery unit’s battle dice are not reduced.
Field Works on hill: When attacking through a Field Works hex 
side disregard Hill terrain battle dice reductions and use only the 
Field Works battle dice reductions. Another words Field works 
do not stack with other terrain reductions.
Field Works protection to defender: Infantry or artillery units 
attacked through Field Works hexsides may ignore one retreat 
flag rolled; cavalry units do not receive this benefit. A defending 
unit will not receive Field Works protection and may not ignore a 
flag when the enemy unit is not attacking across a hex side with 
the Field Works (normally this is from a hex directly to the side 
or behind the Field Works hex sides).
When battling out of a Field Works hex:
•	 Infantry and artillery suffer no battle dice reductions.
•	 A cavalry unit on a Field Works hex battling out across a hex 
side with a Field Works will reduce the number of battle dice 
it will roll by 2.
Line of Sight: A Field Works hex does not block line of sight.
RIVER
Movement: Normally, River hexes are treated as 
impassable terrain and may only be crossed at a 
ford or on a bridge.
Battle: Melee combat not possible.
Line of Sight: A river does not block line of sight.
FORDABLE RIVER (stream)
Movement: A unit or leader that enters a Fordable 
River hex must stop and may move no further on 
that turn. An infantry unit may form square on a 
Fordable River hex.
Battle: A unit may battle the turn it moves onto a Fordable 
River hex.
When targeting an enemy unit or leader on a Fordable River hex: 
A unit will roll 1 less battle die in melee combat, but its ranged 
combat dice are not reduced.
A unit on a Fordable River hex will reduce its battle dice rolled 
by 1 in ranged and melee combat.
Line of Sight: A Fordable River hex does not block line of 
sight.
BRIDGE
Movement: A bridge will cancel a river or fordable 
river’s movement restrictions. An infantry unit may 
form square on a bridge hex.
Battle: A bridge will cancel a river or fordable river’s battle 
restrictions
Line of Sight: A bridge does not block line of sight.
SAND QUARRY
Movement: A unit or leader that enters a Sand 
Quarry hex must stop and may move no further on 
that turn. A sand quarry is considered impassable 
terrain for an artillery unit. An infantry unit may 
form square on a quarry hex.
Battle: When targeting an enemy unit or leader that is on a Sand 
Quarry hex:
•	 An infantry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1 in 
melee combat, but its ranged combat dice are not reduced. 
•	 A cavalry unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 2. 
•	 An artillery unit reduces the number of battle dice rolled by 1 
when firing into a quarry hex.
When battling out from a Sand Quarry hex:
•	 An infantry unit on a quarry hex battling out will reduce its 
battle dice rolled by 1 in ranged and melee combat.
•	 A cavalry unit on quarry hex battling out will reduce the 
number of battle dice it will roll by 2.
•	 A quarry is considered impassable terrain for artillery.
Line of Sight: A quarry hex does not block line of sight.

ATTACK LEFT FLANK - Issue an order to 3 units or Leaders 
on the Left Flank. (4 cards)
ATTACK CENTER - Issue an order to 3 units or Leaders in the 
Center. (6 cards)
ATTACK RIGHT FLANK - Issue an order to 3 units or Leaders 
on the Right Flank. (4 cards)
ASSAULT LEFT FLANK - Order a number of units or leaders 
on the Left Flank equal to command (the number of cards held 
in your hand including this card). (2 cards)
ASSAULT CENTER - Order a number of units or leaders in the 
Center equal to command (the number of cards held in your hand 
including this card). (2 cards)
ASSAULT RIGHT FLANK - Order a number of units or leaders 
on the Right Flank equal to command (the number of cards held 
in your hand including this card). (2 cards)
COORDINATED ADVANCE - Issue an order to 4 units or Lead-
ers. Order 1 on Left Flank, 2 in the Center and 1 on the Right 
Flank. (2 cards)
FLANK ATTACK - Issue an order to 2 units or Leaders on each 
Flank. (2 cards)
FORWARD - Issue an order to 2 units or Leaders in each sec-
tion. (2 cards)
RECON IN FORCE - Issue an order to 1 unit or Leader in each 
section. (2 cards)
8. COMMAND CARDS
Section Cards (48)
Section cards are used to order units in a specific section of the 
battlefield to move and/or battle. These cards indicate which 
section of the battlefield you may order units or leaders, and 
how many units or leaders you may order. An attached leader 
ordered by a Section Command card may be ordered to detach 
and move separately. Command cards that state ‘order units equal 
to command’ mean the number of units you may order is equal to 
the number of Command cards you hold including the card just 
played. The cards that are on a player’s Infantry in Square tracks 
are not counted as Command cards you are holding.
Bicorne hat indicates that an attached leader may 
be ordered to detach unless attached to a unit in 
An arrow with a number indicates the number of units 
and/or leaders in that section that can be ordered.
An arrow with cards indicates the number of units and 
or leaders in that section that may be activated is equal 
to or less than the player’s current Command.
SCOUT LEFT FLANK - Issue an order to 1 unit or Leader on 
the Left Flank. When drawing a new Command card, draw two, 
choose one and discard the other. (2 cards)
SCOUT CENTER - Issue an order to 1 unit or Leader in the 
Center. When drawing a new Command card, draw two, choose 
one and discard the other. (2 cards)
SCOUT RIGHT FLANK- Issue an order to 1 unit or Leader on 
the Right Flank. When drawing a new Command card, draw two, 
choose one and discard the other. (2 cards)
PROBE LEFT FLANK - Issue an order to 2 units or Leaders on 
the Left Flank. (4 cards)
PROBE CENTER - Issue an order to 2 units or Leaders in the 
Center. (6 cards)
PROBE RIGHT FLANK - Issue an order to 2 units or Leaders 
on the Right Flank. (4 cards)

Tactic Cards (22)
Tactic cards allow ordered units to move and/or battle in ways 
not normally allowed in the basic rules. Terrain movement and 
battle restrictions still apply when a Tactic card Actions take 
precedence over basic rules.
Bicorne hat indicates that an attached leader may 
be ordered to detach unless attached to a unit in 
A large circle indicates that all ordered units get ad-
ditional battle dice equal to the number in the cir-
cle.
The large and small circles indicate that non-Guard 
(large circle) and Guard units (small circle) receive 
differing numbers of additional battle dice equal to 
the numbers in the circles.
BAYONET CHARGE - Issue an order to 4 
or fewer INFANTRY units. Units may move 
2 hexes and still battle in melee. Ordered units 
may not engage in ranged combat. Guard 
infantry, when ordered, will melee with 1 
additional die. If you do not have any infan-
try units, issue an order to 1 unit of your 
choice. (2 cards)
BOMBARD - Issue an order to 4 or fewer 
ARTILLERY units. Ordered units may move 
up to 3 hexes and not battle, or may not move 
and battle with 2 additional dice. Guard artil-
lery, when ordered, battle with 3 additional 
dice. If you do not have any artillery units, 
issue an order to 1 unit of your choice. (2 
cards)
CAVALRY CHARGE - Issue an order to 4 
or fewer CAVALRY or horse artillery units. 
Ordered cavalry units battle with 1 addi-
tional die the entire turn. Ordered guard 
cavalry battle with 2 additional dice the entire 
turn. Ordered heavy cavalry units may move 
3 hexes and still battle. Horse artillery units 
may move and battle normally. If you do not 
have any cavalry or horse artillery units, issue an order to 1 unit 
of your choice. (3 cards)
COUNTER-ATTACK - Issue the same order 
card that your opponent just played. When 
you play this card it becomes a copy of the 
card your opponent played on the last turn. 
Following the instructions on that card as 
though you were actually playing it, except 
when countering a Section card. Then the 
right fank becomes left fank and the left flank 
becomes the right flank. (2 cards)
ELAN - Roll battle dice equal to command 
(the number of cards held in your hand 
including this card). For each symbol rolled, 
1 unit of this type is ordered. One unit or 
leader of your choice may be ordered for each 
Flag symbol rolled. Sabers order no units or 
leaders. Ordered units battle with 1 additional 
die the entire turn. Reshuffle the Command 
card deck and discard pile. (1 card)
FIRE AND HOLD - Issue an order to 4 or 
fewer INFANTRY or ARTILLERY units. 
Ordered units will perform ranged combat 
with 1 additional die. Ordered units may not 
be adjacent to enemy troops. Units may not 
move before or after combat, but may come 
out of square if eligible. If you do not have 
any infantry or artillery units, issue an order 
to 1 unit of your choice. (2 cards)
Note: If an enemy unit retreats to an adjacent hex next to a unit 
that was ordered, but that has not fired yet this turn, that enemy 
unit’s retreat onto an adjacent hex will prevent the ordered unit 
from performing ranged combat on the turn. A unit ordered by the 
Fire and Hold card may not melee if prevented from performing 
ranged combat.
FIRST STRIKE - Play this card after op-
ponent declares a melee attack, but before the 
dice roll. Your defending unit will battle first. 
If the opponent’s unit is neither eliminated 
nor retreats it may then battle as originally 
ordered. At the end of the turn, you draw a 
replacement Command card first. (2 cards)
Note: A defending unit that plays a First Strike 
is not eligible to Battle Back when it has used the First Strike to 
battle first in a melee.
Note: Two First Strike cards may not be played during the same 
melee.
FORCE MARCH - Issue an order to all 
INFANTRY units in one section. Light, Rifle 
Light, Grenadier, Guard infantry units and 
infantry units with an attached Leader may 
move up to 2 hexes and battle. Other infantry 
units may hold, move 1 hex and battle or may 
move 2 hexes and not battle. If you do not 
have any infantry units, issue an order to 1 
unit of your choice. (2 cards)
GIVE THEM THE COLD STEEL - Issue 
an order to all units adjacent to the enemy. 
Ordered units may melee with 1 additional 
die. Ordered units may not engage in ranged 
combat. Units may not move before melee 
combat. After a successful melee, infantry 
may Take Ground and cavalry may perform 
Cavalry Breakthrough and may make a Bonus 

GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
CREDITS
Creation and Development: Richard Borg
Art Director, Cover Art & Package Design: Rodger B. 
MacGowan
Sticker Art: Pascal Da Silva
Card Design and Layout: Donal Hegarty
Rules Layout, Map and Tile Art: Mark Simonitch
Playtesting: Joe Abrisz, Dave Arneson, Brad Bell, Jeff 
Borg, George Carson, Kevin Frankfother, Rik Fontana, 
Robert Granger, Roy Grider, Brett Helgeson, Pat Kurivial, 
Ted Kurivial, Steve Malecek, Grant Malecek, Bill Massey, 
Steve May, Terry Mikrut, Paul Miller, Wayne Minton, John 
Nichols, Steve Niedergeses, Doug O’Connell, Stan Oien, 
Mike Panko, Jeff Paszkiwicz, John Pritchard, Anthony Ri-
cardi, Louis Rotundo, Bob Santiago, Ken Sommerfield, Rick 
Thomas, Dan Van Horn, and the GMT Command Staff.
Rules Editing and Proofing: Kevin Duke and Tony Cur-
tis
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, 
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
Melee Attack with its standard number of battle dice. (1 card)
Note: All units adjacent to an enemy unit when this card is 
played are ordered. This can get a little confusing, especially as 
melee combat takes place and enemy units are forced to retreat. 
We suggest that you mark all units eligible to melee before you 
start your melee combats.
LEADERSHIP - Issue an order to all LEAD-
ERS. When a Leader is attached to a unit, the 
unit is also ordered as long as the Leader 
remains with the unit. Any ordered unit shall 
roll 1 additional die if it battles. A Leader may 
detach from a unit. If a Leader moves and 
joins a unit, the unit is not ordered. If you do 
not have any Leaders, issue an order to 1 unit 
of your choice. (2 cards)
LA GRANDE MANOEUVRE - Issue an 
order to 4 or fewer units or Leaders. Ordered 
units or Leaders may make a strategic move 
up to 4 hexes. An infantry unit in square may 
not be ordered. Ordered units may not battle. 
Or, issue an order to 1 unit of your choice. (1 
card)
RALLY - Roll battle dice equal to command 
(the number of cards held in your hand includ-
ing this card). For each Infantry, Cavalry or 
Artillery symbol rolled, 1 block of this type is 
returned to any under strength unit anywhere 
on the battlefield. A unit may not gain more 
blocks than it originally had. Rallied units that 
gain at least one block are ordered. (1 card)
SHORT SUPPLY - One enemy or friendly 
unit (card holder’s choice) is out of supply. 
Remove the unit from the hex it occupies, and 
place it on a baseline hex that may be entered 
(owning player’s choice) in the same section 
of the battlefield. If there are no enterable 
baseline hexes, place the unit on a vacant hex 
one-row forward of the baseline row. If the 
unit has an attached Leader, the Leader is also removed and 
placed with the unit. If the short supplied unit is your unit, it may 
not battle this turn. An infantry unit in square may not be short 
supplied. (1 card)
Note: A lone leader may not be short supplied.