GAME MASTER’S GUIDE
WWW.COMMONSPOLY.CC

CONTENTS
1. Introduction
2. Main goal of the game
3. Quick Guidelines
 3.1. Before starting
 3.1.1. Sort out the basics
 3.1.2. Allocate the characters 
 3.1.3. Define the Game Mode
 3.2. During the game
 3.2.1. Unlocking Goods
 3.2.2. Managing your Points when you arrive at a Good
 3.2.3. The Speculator(s)
 3.2.4. Using Central Agora & Collective Uprising Action
 3.2.5. Special Spaces
4. Detailed Guidelines
 4.1. Before starting 
 4.1.1. Check you have everything needed to play 
 4.1.2. Decide on the Game Master
 4.1.3. Prepare the cards
 4.1.4. Allocate the goods!
 4.1.5. Define the Game Mode
 4.1.6. Allocate the characters 
 4.1.7. How to play 
 4.2. During the game
 4.2.1. Starting play
 4.2.2. Unlocking Goods. Let’s undo privatisation! 
 4.2.3. The Speculators
 4.2.4. Certain situations and Special Spaces
 4.2.4.1. Situation Cards and Global Cards
 4.2.4.2. Central Agora and Collective Uprising Action
 4.2.4.3. Special Spaces 
5. History of the game
6. Licence
7. Links and Contact

1. INTRODUCTION
What is Commonspoly? It’s a board game where you can only win 
if you’re willing to cooperate. And, like life, it’s a bit complex and takes 
some time to learn. It’s a board game, like Monopoly, but it also draws 
elements from role-playing games (RPGs), like having a Game Master 
to support the game. 
This is the latest version of the Game Master’s guide: 
 
1. After reading this guide, you will be able to act as the Game Master. 
There are quick and more detailed versions of the rules to choose from 
in this guide. 
2. If you want to be a Game Master but you don’t want to read the 
guide (or if you want a bit more help after reading it), you can take a 
short initiation workshop. Drop a message to master@commonspoly.cc 
if you are interested.
 
Cooperating is not always easy in real life. That’s part of the purpose of 
Commonspoly - it’s a board game designed to help promote a culture 
of cooperation. The main goal has always been to hack and subvert the 
current version of the very famous game, Monopoly. 
As in Monopoly, you will find goods and other resources at each space 
on the board. In Commonspoly, these goods and services can be 
private, public or commons. In contrast to Monopoly, the challenge 
is to create the least privatised society possible.
One of the key challenges is that in real life we rarely find a regime 
of property and management that is solely ‘Commons’; resources are 
often simultaneously private and commons, or public and commons. By 
‘Commons’, we mean that a determined local community is taking care 
of and managing a designated resource. Commonspoly presents these 
three different states of goods separately, for pedagogical and playful 
reasons. 

We have spent a lot of time playing the game and can tell you that 
when you really get hooked in, it feels like cooperation does in real 
life. However, it is important to mention that the game is an approach 
from a pedagogical point of view only. It is a simplification which 
facilitates experimenting, testing and learning around real life questions, 
but obviously does not represent the real complexity of the fight for 
managing resources.
A short history (more in 5. History of the Game)
Commonspoly emerged in 2015 as part of “Reclaim the Commons”, 
a Hackcamp during the ZEMOS98 Festival. It has gone through two 
important transformations since then, and this is the third. Commonspoly’s 
philosophy is part of the free/open culture movement, and any version 
of the game can be individualised and improved at any time. Download 
everything from www.commonspoly.cc/documentation if you want 
to make your own version! The one you have here has been made 
possible thanks to the contribution of tons of people worldwide, from all 
walks of life. If you have a proposal, or find any mistakes, please join the 
community and participate: comun@commonspoly.cc.
 
Note: This version of the game is designed for players aged 14 years 
and older. However, there is a version that is more suitable for educational 
purposes that can be downloaded here: www.commonspoly.cc/
beginners. 

2. MAIN GOAL OF THE GAME
There is an ongoing battle. The Speculator(s) are organised 
and committed to privatising every resource available in this society: 
environmental, urban, health and intangible (knowledge 
based) goods. Work together as a team to fight this dystopia!
 
Important:
 
— You must cooperate with other players to prevent privatisations and 
liberate as many goods and services as possible. Your goal is to turn 
them into public goods or, even better, common ones! 
— This is how you win, by turning all goods common. If there is a mix 
of public and common goods, it’s a draw. You know what that means, 
if there is even one private good you lose! Work together to fight the 
privatisation! 
— You have 20 rounds to use your Welfare and Legitimacy Points for 
the common good. This is a race against time!
— To fight against privatisation, each player must manage their Welfare 
and Legitimacy Points. Be careful not to spend these too soon!
— Considering the game’s complexity, it’s a good idea to have someone 
act as Game Master. Although it is possible to manage the Game 
Master role together (best for advanced players), we encourage you 
to play with just one person in this position. If no one is prepared to be 
the Game Master, you can play an easier version of the game using 
the same board but with simpler rules. Go to www.commonspoly.cc./
beginners to download the Rules for Beginners.
— Lastly, one person will have to play the role of The Speculator(s). The 
Speculator(s) follow other citizens around the board and try to block 
their strategies. Watch out for them! We suggest that the person who is 
the Game Master also plays The Speculator(s) role, but it’s up to you. 

3. QUICK GUIDELINES
3.1. BEFORE STARTING
3.1.1. Sort out the basics 
You have 20 rounds. The game is a race against time, with the 
completion of each round bringing you one step closer to the total 
privatisation of the board and the end of the game. Watch out! 
Decide who will play the role of Game Master and The 
Speculator(s). It’s best if the Game Master also plays the role of The 
Speculator(s) - the main obstacle in preventing you from achieving your 
common goal. Choose what colour token you want to play with, leaving 
the white ones for The Speculator(s). All players move around the board 
by rolling the dice, including The Speculator(s).
Take the Global and Situation Cards:
— Global Cards affect all players, and are always read before each 
round (apart from the first round). 
— Situation Cards affect players individually. Only take one if you 
land in a light blue space on the board.
3.1.2. Allocate the characters 
There are 16 different characters, each player should select their 
own by picking a random Player Sheet. Don’t look at the information 
before choosing, it should be purely random! 
Each player starts with 5 Welfare Points and 5 Legitimacy Points 
and will gain more as the game goes on. The number of Skill Points 
you have is written on your Player Sheet and is dependent on the 
characteristics of your character.

3.1.3. Define the Game Mode
This is done through determining the levels of privatisation and the 
number of Speculators tokens in play. The less privatisation there is, the 
more Speculators there will be, and vice versa.
Roll the dice for each good and write down the results. Add the numbers 
recorded and write down the total.
HEALTH GOODS
URBAN GOODS
INTANGIBLE GOODS
ENVIRONMENTAL GOODS
TOTAL
The total number above determines the mode of the game and the 
number of Speculators. 
TOTAL SCORE
GAME MODE
SPECULATORS
4-10
Mad Max
11-17
Transition
18-24
Commonsland
The numbers you rolled earlier for the goods define their statuses. If you 
rolled a 1-2 those goods will be Private, 3-4 will be Public, and 5-6 will 
be Commons. 
Use the Goods Tokens provided to mark these results on the board. 
Don’t worry about the pink spaces on the board just yet, they are the 
Inalienable Common Goods and you will learn more about them later.

3.2. DURING THE GAME
3.2.1. Unlocking Goods
You need 10 Points every time you want to unlock a type of good and 
change its status. To do this you will need to combine your Skill Points 
with your Welfare Points. The number of Welfare Points you have will 
always change with your actions, but you never lose your Skill Points. 
Your Skill Points can only be used on the type of good they relate to. The 
following table provides an example of how many Welfare Points you 
would need, according to your relevant Skill Points, to unlock a type of 
good. 
SKILL/
RELATED 
GOOD
SKILL 
(before 
performing 
the unlocking 
action)
(after perform­
ing the unlock­
ing action)
LEGITIMACY 
(after perform­
ing the unlock­
ing action)
CARING/
OCCUPY­
ING/URBAN
SHARING/
REGENERAT­
ING/ENVI­
RONMENTAL

Remember that as an individual you can only change one good at a time, 
from private to public or from public to commons. Whole categories of 
goods can be unlocked when you meet in the Central Agora and carry 
out the Collective Uprising Action. 
PRIVATE > PUBLIC > COMMONS

3.2.2. Managing your points when you arrive at a good
If you’re lucky you will receive Welfare and Legitimacy points when you 
arrive at a good. The number you receive is dependent on the status of 
the good: 
TYPE OF GOOD 
(ASSOCIATED 
SKILL)
STATUS
LEGITIMACY 
INALIENABLE 
COMMON 
GOODS
Commons (Pink)

3.2.3. The Speculator(s) 
Remember that The Speculator(s) can have 1, 2 or 3 tokens depending 
on the Game Mode. If a Speculator lands in the same space as you, 
they can choose how they want to hurt you. What they do is dependent 
on how they roll the dice, so, sometimes you might be lucky! These are 
their options:
Deduct 
your 
Welfare 
Points 
(WF)
Dice 1,2 = 
–1 WF 
Point
Dice 3,4 = 
– 2 WF Points
Dice 5,6 = 
– 3 WF Points
Send you 
to the 
Detention 
Centre
Dice 1,2 = 
1 rounds!
Dice 3,4 = 2 round 
1 WF Points to free you 
if you are a citizen 2 WF 
Points to free you if you 
are non-citizen
Dice 5,6= 3 rounds 
2 WF Points to free you 
if you are a citizen 4 WF 
Points to free you if you 
are non-citizen
Send you 
to the 
Tragedy 
of the 
Rolling the Dice and obtaining the same number twice
 	

The Speculator(s) can also stop the Collective Uprising Action in the 
Central Agora. If there is a player in the Central Agora and a Speculator 
enters (via the columns, like all other players), they can kick the first player 
out. Again this is down to luck, and what they roll on the dice!
Dice 1, 2, 3
The Speculator kicks the Player out, and both of you go to the 
Detention Centre.
Dice 4, 5, 6
The Speculator cannot kick you out, they go to the Mortgage 
space on their own.
3.2.4. Using the Central Agora to perform the Collective 
Uprising Action
At least two players must be in the Central Agora (having entered through 
the columns around the edge) to perform the Collective Uprising Action. 
The first player to arrive can stay for a maximum of 3 rounds before 
they have to leave. This table explains everything related to being in the 
Central Agora and performing the Collective Uprising Action:
At least two 
players must have 
arrived at the 
Central Agora. 
Then they can 
invite everybody 
else to join them 
directly.
Each round you stay at the Agora 
you lose 1 Welfare Point and gain 
1 Legitimacy Point.
If you complete 
the action, the re­
maining personal 
Legitimacy Points 
will be distribut­
ed among the 
players according 
to the decision of 
the group.
All goods of any 
one type (health, 
intangible, urban 
or environmental) 
can be directly 
commonalised, 
whether private or 
public.
As a team you need to collect a 
minimum of 10 Legitimacy Points per 
player in the Agora. (So for 5 people 
you would need 50 Legitimacy Points 
- as long as there are enough points 
it doesn’t matter if some people have 
fewer than 10 and others have more.)

 
 
3.2.5. Special Spaces
This is a summary of the special spaces and certain situations. Check the 
Detailed Guidelines for a more extensive explanation.
Space
Action
Central Agora
Perform the Collective Uprising Action - using 
10 times as many Legitimacy Points as there are 
players, excluding The Speculator(s)
Assembly
Swap 2 Welfare Points for 4 Legitimacy Points. This 
applies just to the player who gets there
Bureaucracy
Change one good of your choice from Private to 
Public, for only 6 Welfare Points
The Tragedy of 
the Commons
Mandatory downgrade in status of 3 goods (from 
common to public, from public to private)
Crowdfunding
Each Welfare Point you give away becomes 2 
Legitimacy Points for someone of your choice! 
Mortgage
Lose 2 Welfare Points
Detention 
Centre
Miss a turn - you can’t move for 1 round
Casino 
Lose 4 Legitimacy Points

4. DETAILED GUIDELINES
4.1. BEFORE STARTING - PREPARING THE GAME
4.1.1. Check you have everything needed to play 
 
In your box, you should find:
— The board game
— 1 dice
— 16 Player sheets
— 1 Game Master sheet
— 40 Global Cards
— 50 Situation Cards
— 8 Player tokens
— 3 Speculator tokens
— Goods tokens (37 of each colour: black, grey and white)
— Welfare Points Coins (15 x 5, 20 x 2 and 30 x 1)
— Legitimacy Points Coins (15 x 5, 20 x 2 and 30 x 1)
If there is anything missing please write to hello@commonspoly.cc so we 
can help you out!
4.1.2. Decide on the Game Master
 
Ideally, Commonspoly is suitable for 6 to 8 players (including the 
Game Master). In theory, it can be played with as few as 4 people, but 
the challenge will be almost impossible ;) Like in society, the more people 
involved, the easier it is to make a change!

Now it’s time to decide who will be the Game Master, this is particularly 
important! The role-playing nature of the game means the Game Master 
needs to know the game and its dynamic nature very well. (Remember 
that you can become a Game Master by taking a short workshop. Write 
to master@commonspoly.cc if you want to find out more.)
4.1.3. Prepare the cards
 
As mentioned before, there are 2 types of cards:
— Global Cards: These cards last for one round and affect everyone 
playing!
— Situation Cards: These cards are used when a player lands on 
a light blue box marked with a big S. They only affect one player at 
a time.
Place both decks of cards face down close to the Master of the Game 
and near to the board.
 
4.1.4. Allocate the goods!
 
In the game, there are 4 types of goods and services.
 
— Urban Goods (red)
— Intangible Goods (yellow)
— Health Goods (purple)
— Environmental Goods (green)
 

The first step is to define the initial status of each of these goods. Roll the 
dice 4 times, once for each type of good, the number you get will decide 
if it is private, public or common. Make sure you write down the number 
as this will help with setting the game mode.
 
1-2: Private Good

3-4: Public Good

5-6: Common Good
 
Once you have defined the type of goods you have, you need to use the 
black, grey and white Goods Tokens to mark this on the board:
 
— White for Private

— Grey for Public

— Black for Commons
 
As well as the pink spaces on the board, Inalienable Common Goods, 
there are a few other spaces that will be explained later (During the 
game: 4.3. Special Spaces).
4.1.5. Define the Game Mode
 
Total the scores you wrote down for the 4 types of Goods and write 
down the result. You should have a number between 4 and 24 (e.g. 13 - 
2 for Urban Goods, 3 for Intangible Goods, 5 for Health Goods and 3 
for Environmental Goods).
 

This sum will define the Game Mode:
 
— Mad Max mode: 4 - 10. In your society, private goods are 
predominant.

— Transition mode: 11 - 17. Your board isn’t too bad, but it’s not 
great either. Your society is quite varied. 

— Commonsland mode: 18 - 24. You are very experienced at 
managing life communally, most of the services in your society are 
managed in this way. 
The Game Mode also directly affects the number of tokens your most 
dangerous obstacle, The Speculator(s), will receive. This is further 
explained later (During the game: 3. The Speculator(s) ).
The game is a race against time, with the completion of each round 
bringing you one step closer to the total privatisation of the board and the 
end of the game. You have 20 rounds to achieve your goal - good luck! 
4.1.6. Allocate the characters 
 
There are 16 different characters in Commonspoly, each player 
should have their own. Pick a Player Sheet at random - no peeking, this 
should be a purely random choice!
On your Player Sheet you will find more information such as:
— Name of the character
— Skills Points
— Gender/Sexual orientation
— Class
— Race/Geographical background
— Citizenship
— Short bio

It’s important to make sure you’re familiar with your character as their 
characteristics will affect you personally throughout the game! 
Each player will start with 5 Welfare Points and 5 Legitimacy Points and 
will gain more as the game goes on. 
4.1.7. How to play 
 
The goods on the board can be private, public or common. They can 
be transferred from private to public and from public to commons. As 
an individual, you can not transform a good from private to common in 
one shot. You can make this happen by joining forces with other people 
through a Collective Uprising Action in the Central Agora. This will be 
explained in more detail later.
 
PRIVATE GOODS > PUBLIC GOODS > COMMONS GOODS
 
The main individual action in the game is shifting the status of a certain 
good from private to public, or from public to common. This is done by 
combining Skill Points with Welfare Points to reach a total of 10 Points.
A player never loses Skill Points when changing the status of a Good. 
Depending on your actions throughout the game, however, you can lose 
or gain Welfare Points. Scores can never be negative. If you have used 
or lost all of your Welfare or Legitimacy Points and you are supposed to 
have more deducted, your score for those remains at zero.
Each skill is associated with a type of good. As you know, you have 
between 1 and 6 Points for each. There are 4 Skills, each of which will 
help you modify the status of a good. These are:
 
— Caring Skills - Applies to Health Goods (purple)
— Occupying Skills - Applies to Urban Goods (red)
— Sharing Skills - Applies to Intangible Goods (yellow)
— Regenerating Skills - Applies to Environmental Goods (green)

Here’s an example: You land on a privatised Urban Good and you 
want to turn it Public. You need to add your ‘Occupying Skills’ Points 
to your Welfare Points to reach a sum of 10 Points. In this case, if you 
have 6 Welfare Points and 4 Occupying Skill Points, you are able to 
change its status. You’re left with 0 Welfare Points, but you keep your 4 
Occupying Skill Points throughout the game.
 
Legitimacy Points can be accumulated or spent through different 
actions in the game. They are used collectively when you go to the 
Central Agora and perform the Collective Uprising Action. Doing 
this you can unlock an entire type of Good, turning it public or even 
common, but it’s not as easy as it sounds. You need to have ten times 
more Legitimacy Points than there are people playing (excluding The 
Speculator(s) ). This is explained in more detail later (During the game: 
4.2. The Central Agora and Collective Uprising Action).
Choose your token, but remember: the white ones are for The 
Speculators. They are the biggest threat to your challenge of undoing 
the privatisation of resources. You need to watch out for them! This is also 
explained later (During the game: 3. The Speculator(s) ).
Finally there is one very important rule you need to know. There is a 
maximum of two players allowed in a space at any one time. If there are 
two already two players there you’ll have to go in another direction. This 
can be a good tactic for stopping The Speculator(s) from coming near 
you, but dangerous if it means you end up in the same space as one!

4.2. DURING THE GAME
4.2.1. Starting play
 
The first round of the game does NOT require a Global Card, but from 
the second round, the Game Master picks a Global Card at random 
and reads it before the round starts. The event on the card and its 
consequences affect all participants for the upcoming round.
All tokens start at GO! Take it in turns to roll the dice and move your 
token in whichever direction you prefer. 
Note: You need to roll the correct number on the dice to enter the 
Central Agora. Access is only permitted through the spaces connected to 
the corner columns (these are easy to spot as they are a different shape 
to the other spaces on the board). It is not possible to enter the Agora 
through EVERY space surrounding it.
The number of Points you receive for arriving at a space is dependent on 
its status (Private, Public or Commons):
A. If private, you don’t receive any Points.
B. If public, you receive 1 Legitimacy Point and 1 Welfare Point.
C. If commons, you receive 2 Legitimacy Points and 2 Welfare Points.
D. The pink spaces are Inalienable Common Goods and have a 
special scoring system. You receive 2 Welfare Points and 2 Legitimacy 
Points for landing on them.
Now you can decide whether you want to act, or bide your time and 
earn some Points. If you have enough Points you can turn a Private Good 
into a Public one, or a Public Good into a Common one. Don’t worry if 
you don’t, you will still receive the number of Welfare and Legitimacy 
Points relevant to the space you’re in.

4.2.2. Unlocking goods. Let’s undo privatisation!
 
You have decided to alter the status of a good. As mentioned before, 
you have different skills to help with shifting the status of each type of 
good.
 
To shift or unlock the status of a good, you need 10 Points. The easiest 
way to reach this number is by combining your Welfare Points with the 
corresponding Skill Points. Important: Skill Points must correspond to 
the type of good, or you can’t use them!
 
Another example: You land on an Environmental Good that is 
Private. You have 8 Welfare Points and 2 Regenerating Skill Points. 
This Skill applies to Environmental Goods so can be used. You need 
10 Points to turn the good Public. If you take action, you will still have 2 
Regenerating Skill Points but 0 Welfare Points. By changing the status of 
a good, however, you automatically gain 1 Legitimacy Point.
Remember to use the coins to keep track of your changing Welfare and 
Legitimacy Points and keep your Player Sheet up to date!
 

4.2.3. The Speculator(s)
 
The Speculator(s) play a crucial role in Commonspoly - they’re the ones 
with the power to thwart your desires and prevent you from communalising 
society. (As a reminder: we suggest that the Game Master also plays this 
role, although it is possible for the two roles to be played by separate 
people).
 
The Speculator(s) will have 1, 2 or 3 Tokens depending on the Game 
Mode:
Mad Max Mode
1 Token 
Transition Mode
2 Tokens 
Commonsland Mode
3 Tokens 
The Speculator(s) will always have the last turn in the round. They move 
like all other players, however they can roll the dice once for each token 
that they have in play. If there are more than one Speculator(s) pieces 
on the board, these may be moved in any order, or in substitution for 
another, at their discretion, or also, roll the dice for the same game piece 
twice (or thrice, if there are three Speculators), as desired. In other words, 
Speculator(s) game pieces don’t have to move in the same sequence 
from round to round, and the first game piece can be moved instead of 
the second or third piece in play, if this is strategic. 
If a Speculator lands in a space you’re in, these are their options:
 
1. Deduct Welfare Points. The number of Points deducted is determined 
by how they roll the dice:

A. 1-2: One Welfare Point

B. 3-4: Two Welfare Points

C. 5-6: Three Welfare Points

2. Send you to the Detention Centre. Again, the number of rounds you 
must stay is determined by how they roll the dice:

A. 1-2: One rounds (you get to have your turn as normal in the 
next round); 3-4: Two round; 5-6: Three: rounds. Note: If you are 
in the Detention Centre, you can’t join the others in the Central 
Agora, and so the Collective Uprising Action can’t take place until 
you are free.

B. If you are a citizen it will cost 1 Welfare Point per round to 
liberate you. This can be done collectively too: if you have to stay 
3 rounds and the rest of the players want to liberate they must 
spend 3 Welfare Points.

C. If you are a non-citizen it will cost 2 Welfare Points per round 
to liberate you. As above: if you have to stay 3 rounds and the 
rest of the players want to liberate you, they will need to spend 6 
Welfare Points.

3. Send you to the Tragedy of the Commons. To do this, the Speculator(s) 
must roll the dice and get the same number twice in a row.
If there are already two players in the same space The Speculator(s)
cannot access that space. This can be used as a strategy by the players 
to protect themselves. If you arrive at a space already occupied by a 
Speculator, you cannot perform any action on those goods and you 
will face whatever The Speculator(s) decides to do to you. This does not 
influence The Speculator(s)’ go at the end of the round. 
Finally, The Speculator(s) can stop the Collective Uprising Action in the 
Central Agora. 
If there is a player in the Central Agora and a Speculator enters (like 
all other players, via the columns), if they then roll a 1, 2 or 3 on the 
dice they will immediately kick the player out, forcing them to go to the 
Detention Centre (in this instance there is no charge to leave the Detention 

Centre, the player is free to move in the next round). Important: In this 
scenario, The Speculator(s) goes to the Detention Centre with the player. 
If The Speculator(s) fails (by rolling a 4, 5 or 6) they have to go to 
Mortgage, but the player remains in the Central Agora.
Note: The Speculator(s) cannot enter the Central Agora when it is 
empty, they can only go in with the intention of kicking somebody else 
out. 
Once there are two players in the Central Agora, The Speculator(s) 
cannot stop the Collective Uprising Action. 
 
4.2.4. Certain situations and Special Spaces
4.2.4.1. SITUATION CARDS AND GLOBAL CARDS
If you land on a pink space marked S you will need to take a Situation 
Card. The effects of this card will only be relevant to you. Although 
the effects only last one round, they can be positive or negative, so… 
good luck!
The Global Cards will be read just before starting every round (apart 
from the first). The consequences will apply to all or some of the players 
for that round, based on what it says on the card. The Game Master 
should guide this. 
Note: When we say the effects only last one round we are talking 
about the scenarios on the cards. Points that have been taken away 
are not returned, but any points you have been given you get to keep! 
 
4.2.4.2 CENTRAL AGORA AND COLLECTIVE UPRISING ACTION
 
The central space on the board, the Central Agora, is crucial to the 
game. At the beginning of the game, you will be losing Welfare Points 
whilst you undo the privatisation of goods, but gaining Legitimacy 
Points. The Central Agora is the place to collectively use those 

Legitimacy Points. It is a convergent space for collectively pushing and 
advocating the liberation and communalisation of your society. 
You can perform a Collective Uprising Action in the Agora, 
meaning you can shift all Goods of one type (Urban, Health, Intangible 
or Environmental) into Commons regardless of whether they are Public 
or Private. These are the requirements: 
— Use your turn to get to the central box by rolling the dice. 
Remember: you can only get into the Agora through one of the 
4 columns.

— Another player must join you in the Agora for you to start an 
action. You will need to work together. But be careful! Once there 
are two of you in the Agora, the others will join you instantly. Make 
sure the group has enough Legitimacy Points to act before meeting 
there.
— Note: You can only stay in the Central Agora for 3 rounds at a 
time. For each round you stay in the Agora you lose one Welfare 
Point and gain one Legitimacy Point. If you don’t have any Welfare 
Points you can’t stay. If you have one Welfare Point you can only 
stay one round. 
— Remember: If you are alone in the Central Agora, The 
Speculator(s) can kick you out by joining you inside and rolling a 
1-2 on the dice. You’ll be pleased to hear that The Speculator(s) are 
only allowed into the Central Agora when one of you is already 
inside, they can’t stay in there to prevent you from entering.
— Now you are probably ready to perform a Collective Uprising 
Action. Shifting an entire type of Good into Commons requires 
ten times more Legitimacy Points than there are players (excluding 
The Speculator(s) ). So if there are 4 of you working towards 
communalising goods, you need 40 Points from the group 
collectively; if there are 5 of you, you need 50; etc. This doesn’t 

mean that everyone needs 10 Points, some people can have 
more and the others less. The idea is that the amount is reached 
collectively.
 
If you complete the action, the remaining personal Legitimacy Points 
will be distributed among the players according to a group decision: 
ideally, in a proportional way, but the group decides!
4.2.4.3. SPECIAL SPACES
Now we’ll describe the spaces on the board that aren’t Goods, but 
some of which might help you in your quest to undo privatisation.
The Assembly
You can stay at The Assembly for as long as you like. 
For each round you stay, you turn 2 Welfare Points into 
4 Legitimacy Points.
 
Bureaucracy 
At Bureaucracy you have the option to turn a Private 
Good of your choice Public for 6 Welfare Points. There 
are no negative consequences if you decide not to, you 
just won’t be gaining anything.
The Tragedy of the Commons
 
There are two ways you can suffer the Tragedy of the 
Commons. You can arrive accidentally (by rolling the 
dice), or The Speculator(s) can send you here if they 
catch you. Scarcity of Common Goods is a serious 
problem here: 3 goods of your choice will drop down by 
one level; from Commons to Public, or Public to Private. 
So sad. 

Crowdfunding
 
If, during your turn, you land on Crowdfunding, you can 
donate an amount of Welfare Points of your choice to 
any player. You’ll gain 2 Legitimacy Points for each 
Welfare Point you give away.
 
Mortgage 
 
If you arrive at Mortgage you automatically lose 4 
Welfare Points. Sorry.
Detention Centre
 
If you wind up in the Detention Centre, you can’t move 
for one round. The Speculator(s) can also send you there 
if they catch you. 
Casino
 
If you end up at the Casino, you go and party hard! You 
get so distracted having fun that you forget to unlock any 
goods and so you lose 4 Legitimacy Points.
Inalienable Common Goods
The pink spaces on the board are the infrastructures of the Commons. 
They are the Cooperative, the Hacklab, the Social Centre, the Urban 
garden, the P2P communication network and the eco-consumers 
cooperative. They are intrinsically connected with the commons and 
cannot be private or public. As such, they have their own point scoring 
system: 2 Welfare Points and 2 Legitimacy Points if what you get there. 

5. HISTORY OF THE GAME
Commonspoly turns the basic features of the traditional game upside 
down in an effort to imagine a potential world based on cooperation 
instead of competition. But is it possible to play a board game where the 
players have to find ways to work together, not beat each other? Well, 
the cycles between financial crises are shortening, global unemployment 
rates are skyrocketing, ice caps are melting, and we all have that hard-to-
explain, creepy feeling… In this game, it’s a race against time and every 
player’s help is more than welcome! And it’s not all bad news - we have 
some powerful, community-based tools to use in this struggle against the 
apocalypse. Let’s get down to business: we have urban, environmental, 
health and knowledge based common goods to preserve!
Commonspoly is a free licensed board game that playfully reflects 
the possibilities and limitations of the commons as a critical discourse 
towards relevant changes in our societies. This board game is an ideal 
device to introduce commons theories to groups in a pedagogical and 
playful way - but it’s also fun for those boring rainy afternoons!
Commonspoly is also an attempt to repair a misunderstanding that has 
lasted for more than a century. Back in 1904, Elizabeth Magie patented 
The Landlord’s Game, a board game intended to warn people about 
the dangerous effects of monopolism. Years later, she sold the patent 
to Parker Brothers, the company that distorted her game, turning it 
into the Monopoly we all know today that celebrates huge economic 
accumulation and the bankruptcy of anyone…except you. 
2015: Commonspoly is born during the 17th ZEMOS98 
festival Hackcamp
Commonspoly was launched as a proposal for a working group during 
the hackcamp at the 17th ZEMOS98 festival: they had to develop a 
brand new set of rules for an antithetical Monopoly board game in just 
three days.

This group was facilitated by Guillermo Zapata. Vassilis Chryssos, 
Francisco Jurado, José Laulhé, Carmen Lozano, Rubén Martínez, Peter 
Matjašič, María G. Perulero,Virginia Benvenuti, Natxo Rodríguez, Igor 
Stokfisiewski, Menno Weijs, Carla Boserman and Mario Munera took 
part in developing the rules and regulations. 
Commons Fest
Later on, in May 2015, an exhibition of the game was hosted by the 
Commons Fest in Athens, presented by Vassilis Chryssos and Carmen 
Lozano. The game was played a few times, resulting in a notable 
improvement in its rules.
Idea Camp: Building the City
From September 23rd to 25th, Commonspoly travelled from one side 
of Europe to the other and was played during the breaks of European 
Cultural Foundation’s Idea Camp near Stockholm, Sweden. This was the 
first time the game was completed by a group of people, who felt an 
unending, immense joy during the rest of their days spent together.
Remix the Commons
As 2015 faded away, the France-based collective “Remix the Commons” 
started a new line of work around the board game. They created some 
working groups to do a French translation and experiment with other 
functional improvements. These improvements were showcased at the 
World Social Forum, celebrated in Quebec, Canada, in August 2016.
2016: Culture, the City and the Commons: the second 
version
As part of the event, Culture, the City and the Commons, hosted by 
ZEMOS98 at the end of June in Sevilla, Spain, the collective redesigned 
all of the game’s features (including the board, the cards and the 
tokens) and made a leap forward in simplifying certain rules to improve 

playability. The new version of Commonspoly was printed and given 
to the participants at the event. Guillermo Sanchez was responsible for 
logistics, graphic designer Pablo Navarro redid the drawings and Gema 
Valencia did the photography.
2017/2018: The third version
The game has been tested and improved as part of NEMESIS, a 
Horizon 2020 project on how to bring social innovation into schools, 
with which ZEMOS98 is heavily involved. Felipe G. Gil from ZEMOS98 
has coordinated this with the assistance of Martina Deren, and there 
have been meetings with other people including Txelu Balboa, Carmen 
Lozano, Pablo Navarro, Miguel Lopez, Adelina Pastor and Pablo 
Oliveira. Ricardo Barquín Molero has re-designed the visual identity and 
all the elements of the game (with help from Pablo Vallejo, who drawed 
some icons). Ann-Marie Utratel, Stacco Troncoso and Rosa Cagnoni 
have updated and edited the Master’s Guide. 
ZEMOS98 is an initiative which works on mediating for social change, 
fostering a culture of participation and spreading critical citizenry. At 
the moment, it is formed of Sofía Coca, Lucas Tello, Felipe G. Gil, Pedro 
Jiménez, Miriam Alviz, Martina Deren, Miguel López and Adelina 
Pastor. Get to know us and the work we do at www.zemos98.org.

6. LICENCE
This version of the Commonspoly is just a fork of the game. What’s a 
fork? It’s a metaphor taken from the free software movement to name the 
different versions and developments that come from the same original 
source to satisfy different needs. So, this is just a fork of the Commonspoly 
board game licensed under the Peer Production Licence. This licence lets 
any commoner, cooperative and non-profit organisation use and adapt 
the game, as long as they do so for non-commercial use.
Read more about this licence here:
http://wiki.p2pfoundation.net/Peer_Production_License 

7. LINKS AND 
CONTACT INFORMATION
If you want to download the boardgame and all the different elements, 
as well as the latest version of this document, you can do so here:
www.commonspoly.cc/documentation
If you want to play an easier version of the game (for children or for 
lazy people :P), download the rules here:
www.commonspoly.cc/beginners
If you want to find out a bit more about some of the terminology we’ve 
used in the game, don’t miss this link!
www.commonspoly.cc/glossary
If you have a general inquiry, contact:
hello@commonspoly.cc
If you have any questions related to these Guidelines or you want to 
become a Game Master, please write to:
master@commonspoly.cc
If you want to be part of the community and actively contribute, 
please contact:
comun@commonspoly.cc