RULE BOOK
Game Design by
Richard Borg
3rd Edition

1. INTRODUCTION
The Commands & Colors: Ancients game system allows play-
ers to portray important engagements of ancient history. The 
battles, included in the scenario booklet, focus on the historical 
deployment of forces and important terrain features on the scale 
of the game system. The scale of the game is flexible and varies 
from battle to battle. For some scenarios, an infantry unit may 
represent an entire legion of soldiers, while in other scenarios, a 
unit may represent just a few brave warriors. 
The Command card system drives movement, creates “fog of 
war”, and presents players with many interesting challenges 
and opportunities, while the battle dice resolve combat quickly 
and efficiently. The battlefield tactics you will need to execute 
to gain victory conform remarkably well to the strengths and 
limitations of the various ancient unit types, their weapons, the 
terrain, and history. 
In this core game of the series, we focus on battles involving 
Rome and Carthage, with a few additional scenarios that pit 
Carthage against other historic enemies. Additional expansion 
modules are available to cover battles of Greeks, various Eastern 
Kingdoms, Gauls, Celts, and many other situations, from the 
struggles among Alexander’s Successors to the many civil wars 
Rome was involved in. You will need this game in order to play 
any of the expansions.
	 Welcome and Enjoy! 
	 Richard Borg 
2. CONTENTS
Battlefield Gameboard
Sheets containing 45 double-sided Terrain Tiles 
	 60	 Command cards
Battle dice 
Block and Dice Label sheets
Reference Cards
Core Series Rule Book 
Scenario Book containing 15 battle scenarios 
345 Blocks: gray Roman units, brown Carthaginian units and 
black Victory Banners, comprising:
	 220	small gray and brown blocks for foot units (there will be 
a few spare blocks of this size)
	 16	 small black blocks for Victory Banners
	 81	 medium gray and brown blocks for cavalry units
	 12	 large gray and brown blocks for elephant units 
	 16	 rectangular gray and brown blocks for leaders and chariot 
units
Battlefield Gameboard
The battlefield gameboard (hereafter referred to as the battlefield) 
is a hex grid, 13 hexes wide by 9 hexes deep. The battlefield is 
divided into three sections by two dotted lines, giving each player 
a left flank section, a center section and a right flank section. 
Where the dotted line cuts through a hex, the hex is considered 
to be part of both the flank section and the center section. 
Terrain Tiles
These represent a wide range of terrain features and are placed 
on the battlefield to recreate the historical battlefield for each 
scenario. They are explained in detail later in the rules. 
Command Cards
Units may only move or battle when given an order. Command 
cards are used to order your troops to move, battle or do some-
thing special. For a description of all the Command cards, see 
section 18.
Battle Dice
Each battle die has six blank indented sides requiring stickers. 
Each die should have the following stickers placed on its indented 
faces: one Light (green circle), one Medium (blue triangle), one 
Heavy (red square), one Leader (helmet 
symbol), one Banner (flag symbol), and 
one Crossed Swords symbol. There is 
one set of spare dice stickers.
Units, Leaders, and Blocks
A unit is composed of a certain number of blocks:
Foot Units:
•	 All light, light bow, light slinger, auxilia, warrior, medium and 
heavy infantry units are composed of four small size blocks.
•	 Heavy war machine units are composed of two small size 
Mounted units: 
•	 All light cavalry, light bow cavalry, medium cavalry, heavy 
cavalry, heavy cataphracted cavalry, camel and cataphracted 
camel units are composed of three medium size blocks.
•	 All elephant units are composed of two large size blocks.
•	 All heavy chariot units are composed of two rectangular 
•	 Barbarian chariot units are composed of three rectangular 
•	 A Leader is not a unit. A Leader is represented by one 
rectangular block.
Example of a foot unit (4 blocks) and a cavalry unit (3 blocks).

Apply appropriate unit stickers to the fronts and backs of the blocks 
for each unit. Place Roman unit labels on the gray blocks and the 
Carthaginian unit labels on the dark brown blocks. We suggest that 
you separate the blocks by color, gray for Romans, brown for Car-
thaginians, then sort blocks by size. Start with the Roman Units. Pull 
out 24 small gray blocks. Find the Roman Light Infantry stickers on 
sheet 1 of 3 (there are two of these sheets). Peel and place stickers 
front and back on the 24 small gray blocks. When you run out of the 
24 blocks, move on to the Roman Light Bow Infantry. Pull out 8 small 
gray blocks. Find the Roman Light Bow Infantry stickers on Sheet 
1 of 3. Peel and place stickers on the front and back on the 8 small 
gray blocks. When you run out of 8 blocks, move on to the Roman 
Light Sling Infantry 4 blocks... Keep going in this fashion until all 
the Roman units are completed and then move on to the Carthaginian 
units and dark brown blocks. It will be worth the effort! A few extra 
blocks and stickers are supplied as spares.
Note: Some units included in these rules are not used in this game’s 
scenarios, but will appear in future expansion modules. 

In describing the core of the system, these rules will make ref-
erence to some units, such as light bow cavalry, which are not 
included in this box, but will appear in expansions.
Apply the Victory Banner labels to only one side of the small 
black blocks.
Unit Symbols and Colors
To help identify a unit’s type, colored symbols have been placed 
on each label.
	
Green circle: light infantry, light sling infantry, light bow 
infantry, light cavalry, light bow cavalry. 
	
Green circle with white border: auxilia infantry, light 
barbarian chariot
	
Blue symbol: medium infantry, medium cavalry, 
camel.
	
Blue symbol with white border: warrior infantry, 
cataphracted camel
	
Red symbol: heavy infantry, heavy cavalry, heavy chariot, 
elephant, heavy war machine.
	
Red symbol with white border: heavy cataphracted 
cavalry.
3. SETTING UP THE 
GAME
1. Select a battle from the scenario section of the booklet. If this 
is your first game of Commands & Colors: Ancients, we suggest 
you use Akgragas to begin, as that battle has a small number of 
units and no terrain rules involved. 
2. Place the board in the center of the table. Each scenario 
specifies which army is at the top or bottom of the battlefield, 
and players should sit on the side closest to the army they will 
command.
3. Place the terrain hexes as indicated by the battle scenario 
map. 
4. Separate the blocks by Victory Banners, Carthaginian forces 
(brown blocks) and Roman forces (gray blocks). Place the unit 
blocks onto the board, matching the various units’ positions to 
the scenario’s battle map. Note: Each unit symbol represents an 
entire unit. 
5. Shuffle the Command card deck thoroughly and deal Com-
mand cards to each side per the selected scenario’s War Council 
notes. Keep your Command cards a secret from the opposing 
player. Place the remainder of the deck face down, alongside 
the battlefield, within easy reach of both players. 
6. Place the seven battle dice within reach of both players. 
8. Review any special rules or victory conditions that apply for 
the battle. 
9. The starting player, as indicated in the scenario’s War Council 
notes, begins play. 
4. OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of the game is to be the first to capture a set number 
of Victory Banners (usually 5 to 8), depending on the selected 
battle scenario’s victory conditions. 
A Victory Banner is gained for each enemy leader or enemy unit 
entirely eliminated. When the last block of a unit, or a leader, is 
eliminated, collect one Victory Banner block. In some scenarios, 
additional Victory Banners may be gained by capturing certain 
terrain hexes or other battlefield objectives. 
Victory is decided the instant the last banner required is 
gained.
5. GAME-TURN 
(Sequence of Play)
The War Council notes state which player goes first. Players 
then alternate taking turns, until one of the players reaches the 
number of Victory Banners indicated in the scenario’s victory 
conditions. 
During your turn, follow the sequence shown below:
	 1. Play a Command card
	 2. Order units and leaders
	 3. Move
	 4. Battle (combat between units)
	 5. Draw a new Command card 
Note that all movement must be completed before any battle 
(between two units) is fought, and that each battle must be fought 
to completion before another battle is begun.

The example above shows the movement rates of foot units. 
Note the auxilia unit cannot battle if it moves two hexes. Also 
note how the warrior unit may only move two hexes if it battles 
after moving. 
6. PLAY A COMMAND 
CARD
At the start of your turn, play one Command card from your hand. 
Place it face up in front of you and read it aloud. 
Command cards are normally used to order units (and possibly 
leaders) to move and/or battle. The card you play will indicate in 
which section or sections of the battlefield you may issue orders, 
and how many units (and possibly leaders) you may order.
7. ORDER UNITS AND 
LEADERS
After playing a Command card, announce which eligible units 
or leaders you choose to order. 
Only those units or leaders chosen to receive an order from the 
played card may move, battle, or take a special action. 
A leader in the same hex as a friendly unit is considered to be 
“attached” to the unit. If the unit is ordered to move, the attached 
leader must move with the unit. An attached leader must move 
to the same hex as the unit. Note that it still costs only one com-
mand to order a unit with an attached leader.
Units or leaders on a hex with a dotted line running through it 
may be ordered from either section. 
You may not give more than one order to each unit or leader. If 
the Command card allows you to issue more orders in a given 
section of the battlefield than you have units or leaders in that 
section, those additional orders are lost. 
When a Section Command card, the ‘Order Mounted Troops’ 
Command card or the ‘I am Spartacus’ Command card is played, 
a leader in the same hex as a unit may be ordered to detach from 
the unit and move by himself. It costs one order for each attached 
leader that is detached from its unit and moved separately, and 
the unit itself is not considered ordered (but could be ordered by 
spending another command). The remaining orders on the Com-
mand card may be used to order units (including the one from 
which a leader was detached), or unattached leaders. Section 
Command cards, plus the ‘Order Mounted Troops’ and the ‘I 
am Spartacus’ Command cards have a helmet symbol to remind 
players that one or more attached leaders may be ordered to move 
separately when playing these cards. 
Command: Some cards allow you to order a number of units 
equal to your side’s “Command.” A player’s Command is equal 
to the maximum number of Command cards that player is 
allowed to hold, as noted in the War Council section of the 
scenario being played. When the number of Command cards 
changes in a scenario, Command increases (or decreases) to the 
new maximum number of cards allowed to be held at the mo-
ment the card is played. 
8. MOVEMENT
Unit Movement
Unit movements are made sequentially, one ordered unit at a time, 
in the sequence of your choice. You must complete one unit’s 
movement before beginning another. In addition, you must 
complete all unit movements before proceeding to Battle. 
•	 A unit may only be ordered to move once per turn.
•	 A unit that is ordered does not have to move. 
•	 Ordered units may move from one section of the battlefield 
into another section. 

The example above shows the movement rates of mounted units 
and leaders. All the units in the example (except the leader by 
himself) may battle after moving their full movement rate.
•	 An ordered unit may never move off the sides of a battlefield 
unless scenario special rules offer that option. Aside from 
special rules, units may not exit the battlefield, but leaders 
may evade or escape off the battlefield on their own side, at 
the owner’s choice.
•	 Two units may not occupy the same hex. When moving a 
unit, you may not move onto or through a hex occupied by an 
enemy unit, an enemy leader, or a friendly unit. Light Foot 
Exceptions: see Command card ‘Order Light Troops’ and 
‘Move-Fire-Move’ rules.
•	 A unit may move onto a hex with a friendly leader if the leader 
is alone in the hex. However, it must stop in that hex even if it 
has movement allowance remaining. The lone leader becomes 
attached to the unit. 
•	 You may not split off individual blocks from a unit; the blocks 
in a unit must always stay together and move as a group. 
•	 Units that are reduced through casualty losses (removing 
blocks) may not combine with other units. 
•	 Some terrain features affect movement and may prevent a unit 
from moving its full allowance or battling during that turn (see 
Terrain). 
•	 Leaders are not units, and follow different movement rules 
(see Leader Movement, page 7).
Retreat movement rules vary slightly from regular movement 
(see Retreat). 
Foot Unit Movement 
The following unit types are all classified as foot units:
•	 Light infantry units (light infantry, light sling infantry, light 
bow infantry) may move one or two hexes and battle.
•	 Auxilia infantry units may move one hex and battle or move 
two hexes and not battle. Auxilia units are classed as Light 
foot units for the purposes of being ordered to move and taking 
hits.
•	 Medium infantry units may move one hex and battle.
•	 Warrior infantry units may move one hex and battle or move 
two hexes and battle if the second hex takes them adjacent to 
an enemy unit (warriors can only move two hexes in order to 
battle in Close Combat, and this Close Combat is compulsory 
after a two-hex “charge”). Warrior units are classed as Medium 
foot units for the purposes of being ordered to move and taking 
hits. 
•	 Heavy infantry units may move one hex and battle.
•	 Heavy War machine units may move one hex but may not 
battle when they move. Heavy war machine units are classed 
as Heavy foot units for the purposes of being ordered to move 
and taking hits.
Mounted Unit Movement 
The following unit types are all classified as mounted units:
•	 Light cavalry and light bow cavalry units may move one, two, 
three, or four hexes and battle.

•	 Barbarian chariot units may move one, two, or three hexes and 
battle. Barbarian chariot units are classed as Light mounted units 
for the purposes of being ordered to move and taking hits.
•	 Medium cavalry units may move one, two, or three hexes and 
battle.
•	 Camel and cataphracted camel units may move one, two, or 
three hexes and battle. All Camel units are classed as Medium 
mounted units for the purposes of being ordered to move and 
taking hits.
•	 Heavy cavalry and heavy cataphracted cavalry units may move 
one or two hexes and battle.
•	 Elephant units may move one or two hexes and battle. Elephant 
units are classed as Heavy mounted units for the purposes of 
being ordered to move and taking hits.
•	 Heavy chariot units may move one or two hexes and battle. 
Heavy chariot units are classed as Heavy mounted units for 
the purposes of being ordered to move and taking hits.
Leader Movement
A leader may move one, two, or three hexes when moving alone. 
A leader moving alone may move through hexes occupied by 
friendly units and leaders, but cannot end movement in a hex 
already occupied by another friendly leader. A leader may not 
move onto or through a hex occupied by an  enemy unit or enemy 
leader except to attempt escape (page 16). 
A leader may only be ordered to move once per turn. A leader that 
is ordered does not have to move (unless attached to an ordered 
unit that is moved). 
Ordered leaders may move from one section of the battlefield 
into another section. A leader may never move off the short sides 
of a battlefield or the long sides of the battlefield, top or bottom, 
unless allowed by Battle Special Rules. Exception: Leader Evade 
and Escape (page 16). 
Only one leader may occupy a hex (however moving through a 
hex is not considered occupying that hex). A leader in the same 
hex with a friendly unit at the start of the player’s turn is said to 
be “attached” to the unit. If the unit is ordered to move, the at-
tached leader must move with it to the same hex. Note that only 
one order is required to order a unit with an attached leader.
When a Section Command card, the Order Mounted Troops or 
the I am Spartacus Command card is played, a leader in the same 
hex as a unit may be ordered to detach from the unit and move 
by himself. Section cards, the Order Mounted Troops Command 
card and the I am Spartacus card have a helmet symbol to remind 
players that one or more attached leaders may be ordered to 
move separately when playing these cards. Each attached leader 
detached from its unit and moved separately costs one order. The 
remaining orders on the Command card may be used to order 
units (including the one from which a leader was detached), or 
unattached leaders. Note that a leader may not detach from a unit 
when a ‘Leadership’ Command card is played.
An ordered leader may detach from one unit that has not yet 
moved, and then move and attach to another unit. When a leader 
moves onto a hex with another unit, the unit he attaches to is not 
automatically ordered. The newly attached leader may not move 
with the unit he has just joined, and even if the unit itself has been 
ordered, it can now move no further (it can still battle however).
PLAY NOTE: Timing is important when detaching and attaching 
leaders. Once an ordered unit with an attached leader moves, 
the attached leader cannot be ordered to detach. Once a mov-
ing leader attaches to a new unit, the new unit may not move 
if ordered, but the unit (and its attached leader) may Battle in 
place. As an example, the owning player selects an Order Three 
Units Center Command card and orders a heavy infantry unit, 
its attached leader and a heavy cavalry unit in the center section. 
The heavy cavalry unit is moved first and moves adjacent to an 
enemy unit. The attached leader moves second, detaches from 
the heavy infantry unit, and moves onto the hex with the heavy 
cavalry unit where the leader ceases movement and attaches to 
this unit. Had the heavy Infantry unit moved second, the attached 
leader would have been required to move with it and could not 
detach after moving. The heavy infantry unit moves third. The 
ordered heavy cavalry unit and attached leader may now battle. 
The ordered heavy infantry unit could battle if adjacent to an 
enemy unit.
9. BATTLE
Battles are checked and resolved one ordered unit at a time, in 
the sequence of your choice. You must announce and resolve one 
unit’s battle entirely before beginning the next one. 
•	 A unit that is ordered does not have to battle. 
•	 A unit may normally battle only once per turn. Note: In some 
situations, a unit may make a Momentum Advance after 
a successful Close Combat and then make a bonus Close 
Combat attack (see Special Actions—Momentum Advance). 
This advance and bonus combat must be completed before 
beginning another battle.
•	 A unit may not target and split its battle dice between several 
enemy units. 
The number of casualties a unit has suffered does not affect the 
number of battle dice the unit rolls in combat. A unit with a single 
block retains the same combat strength as a unit at full strength. 
Exception: Warriors battle with more dice at full strength. 
There are two types of battle: 
•	 Ranged Combat
•	 Close Combat 
An ordered unit may only engage in one type of battle when 
ordered, even if it is capable of both types of battle. 
Note again, combat sequence is purely at the owner’s choice and 
he may freely switch between Ranged Combat and Close Combat 
from one unit to the next during the battle phase.
Both types of battle are optional. Ordered units do not have to 
engage in Close Combat, even when adjacent to enemy units. 
Exception: Warriors units (page 9). 

4. Determine terrain battle dice reduction 
5. Resolve Battle
6. Score Hits
7. Apply Retreats
1. Announce Firing Unit: announce the ordered unit you want 
to fire with and its target unit. 
NOTE: Each Ranged Combat attack is declared and resolved 
one ordered unit at a time, in the sequence of your choice. You 
must announce and resolve one unit’s Ranged Combat entirely 
before beginning the next unit’s battle. Regardless of the number 
enemy units in range, each Ranged Combat is conducted by one 
eligible, ordered unit against one enemy unit in line of sight and 
in range. Multiple Ranged Combats against one enemy unit must 
be made and resolved one at a time.
2. Check Range: verify that your target is within range. The 
range is the distance between the firing unit and the target unit, 
measured in hexes. When counting the range in hexes, include 
the target unit’s hex but not the firing unit’s hex. 
	 RANGED WEAPON UNIT	
RANGE 
	 Light infantry, light cavalry, auxilia	
2 hexes
	 Light bow infantry and light slinger infantry	
3 hexes
	 Light bow cavalry	
3 hexes
	 Heavy war machine	
6 hexes
3. Check Line of Sight: verify that your target is within line of 
sight. A unit must be able to “see” the enemy unit it wants to fire 
at. This is known as having “line of sight.”
Imagine a line drawn from the center of the hex containing the 
firing unit to the center of the hex containing the target unit. This 
line of sight is blocked only if a hex (or part of a hex) between 
the battling unit and the target hex contains an obstruction. Ob-
structions include a unit or leader (regardless if friend or foe), 
some terrain features and the edge of the battlefield. The terrain 
in the target unit’s hex does not block line of sight. 
If the imaginary line runs along the edge of one or more hexes 
that contain obstructions, line of sight is not blocked unless the 
obstructions are on both sides of the line. 
4. Determine terrain battle dice reduction (if any): Reduce 
the number of battle dice rolled accordingly. Terrain battle dice 
reductions are described in the section on Terrain. 
5. Resolve Battle: roll battle dice and resolve resulting dice rolls. 
The number of dice rolled depends upon whether or not the unit 
held its position (did not move) before firing. If the unit did not 
move prior to firing, it may use 2 dice in Ranged Combat; if 
it moved, it may only use 1 die.
Exceptions:
•	 An auxilia unit that moves two hexes cannot use Ranged 
•	 A Heavy war machine unit that moves cannot use Ranged 
10. Ranged Combat (Fire)
Only units armed with missile weapons may engage in this type 
of combat. Heavy war machine units are missile capable. Most 
green circle symbol units (whether or not they have a white 
border) have missile weapons. Only Light barbarian Chariots do 
not. Other types of units may be designated as capable of ranged 
fire in Scenario Special Rules.
A unit with missile weapons battling an enemy unit more than 1 
hex away is said to conduct Ranged Combat (fire) at that enemy 
unit (the “target unit”). In Ranged Combat, the target unit must 
be within both range and line of sight of the firing unit.
•	 Ranged Combat may not be used against an adjacent enemy 
unit. 
•	 A unit adjacent to an enemy unit may not fire on another, more 
distant, enemy unit. If it chooses to battle in this case, the unit 
must Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit.
•	 A target unit may not Battle Back after a Ranged Combat attack 
(see Battle Back).
•	 A target unit may not Evade a Ranged Combat attack.
Ranged Combat (Fire) Procedure 
1. Announce firing unit
2. Check Range
3. Check Line of Sight
EXAMPLE OF RANGED COMBAT: All Roman units are or-
dered. The light bow unit fires at a range of three hexes, while 
the light cavalry and light infantry units have a range of two. 
The light slinger unit may not fire because its LOS is blocked 
by friendly units. Assuming none of the units have moved, they 
would each get two dice to use in Ranged Combat. If any of these 
units had moved they would roll one die in Ranged Combat. The 
auxilia unit may not fire, because it is adjacent to an enemy unit. 
It could close combat the enemy cavalry unit before or after any 
of the other unit’s ranged fire. Or, if the enemy cavalry unit is 
destroyed or retreated by the other units’ ranged fire, and the 
auxilia unit has not attacked in close combat, it could then pos-
sibly use ranged fire.

•	 A light barbarian chariot unit cannot use Ranged Combat at 
any time.
6. Score Hits on Units: the unit firing scores 1 hit for each dice 
symbol rolled that matches the unit type targeted.
•	 A green circle will score one hit on units with a green circle 
symbol (with or without a white border).
•	 A blue triangle will score one hit on units with a blue triangle 
symbol (with or without a white border).
•	 A red square will score one hit on units with a red square 
symbol (with or without white border).
A flag does not score a hit but may cause the unit to retreat (see 
Retreat).
If the attacking unit rolls a leader symbol (leaders affect Close 
Combat but not Ranged Combat), sword symbol, or a unit sym-
bol that does not match the target unit, the Ranged Combat has 
missed its target and has no effect.
Effect of Ranged Combat hits on Units: For each hit scored, 1 
block is removed from the target unit. When the last block in the 
opponent’s unit is removed, you collect a Victory Banner block. 
If a player rolls more hits than the number of pieces in the enemy 
unit, these additional hits have no effect.
Hits on Leaders: see Leader Casualty Checks. 
7. Apply Retreats: See Retreat Section 
11. Close Combat 
A unit battling against an adjacent enemy unit is said to be in 
Close Combat with the enemy unit. A unit adjacent to an enemy 
unit must Close Combat the adjacent enemy unit if it chooses to 
battle. It cannot use Ranged Combat (fire) against the adjacent 
enemy unit or any other enemy unit within range. 
Close Combat Procedure
1.	Announce Close Combat
2.	(possible) Evade (defender choice: see Evade rules)
3.	Determine terrain battle dice reduction (if any)
4.	Attacker rolls battle dice
5.	Attacker applies hits
6.	Apply Retreats 
7.	Possible Momentum Advance and bonus Close Combat (see 
Momentum Advance)
8.	Battle Back. The defender in some situations may Battle Back. 
If Battle Back occurs, the defender applies any hits and resolves 
retreats on the original attacking unit. 
1. Announce Close Combat: Announce to your opponent which 
ordered unit is going to attack in Close Combat and the enemy 
unit it is attacking. A unit must be adjacent to an enemy unit to 
engage in Close Combat. 
NOTE: Each Close Combat attack is declared and resolved one 
ordered unit at a time, in the sequence of your choice. You must 
announce and resolve one unit’s Close Combat entirely (including 
any Momentum Advance, Bonus Close Combat, and opponent’s 
Battle Back) before beginning the next one. Regardless of the 
number of friendly and enemy units adjacent to each other, each 
Close Combat is conducted by one eligible, ordered unit against 
one adjacent defending enemy unit. If more than one ordered 
unit is adjacent to the defending enemy unit, each ordered Close 
Combat attack is resolved separately. 
2. Evade: Some defending units are eligible to Evade. This allows 
them to move away from the attacking unit, modifying the Close 
Combat resolution (see Special Actions—Evade).
3. Determine terrain battle dice reduction (if any): Reduce 
the number of battle dice rolled accordingly. Terrain battle dice 
reductions are described in the section on Terrain.
4. Attacker Rolls Battle Dice: Roll battle dice and resolve re-
sulting dice rolls. The number of battle dice a unit rolls in Close 
Combat is determined by its unit type. 
Foot Unit Combat
•	 Light infantry, light sling infantry, and light bow infantry 
units may either stay in position or move one or two hexes 
and Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 2 battle dice. 
These units do not score a hit if they roll a sword symbol in 
•	 An auxilia infantry unit may either stay in position or move 
one hex and Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 3 battle 
dice. If the unit moves two hexes, it may not Close Combat. 
Although an auxilia is classed as a light unit, it does score a 
hit if it rolls a sword symbol in Close Combat.
•	 A medium infantry unit may either stay in position or move 
one hex and Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 4 battle 
•	 A warrior infantry unit may either stay in position or move 
one or two hexes and Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit 
with 3 battle dice. Note that a warrior unit’s normal movement 
is only one hex, but it may move two hexes when “charging” 
into a Close Combat attack against an enemy unit. A warrior 
unit that moves two hexes must then battle in Close Combat 
(if any possible targets remain). A warrior unit at full strength 
Close Combats with 1 additional battle die and may ignore one 
flag rolled against it. A warrior unit loses these bonuses after 
its first block is lost, but this only takes effect when the unit is 
either attacked again by another enemy unit or is ordered to 
battle during its own side’s turn. Note, the key point here is that 
a full strength warrior who loses blocks in a close combat but 
is entitled to Battle Back may roll 4 dice against the attacker 
who inflicted the first casualties. In subsequent attacks, either 
in this turn or any that follow, the warrior unit will only close 
combat with 3 dice.
•	 A heavy infantry unit may either stay in position or move one 
hex and Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 5 battle 

•	 A heavy war machine unit may stay in position and Close 
Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 2 battle dice. A heavy 
war machine unit does not score a hit on a sword symbol in 
Close Combat. A heavy war machine unit may not move and 
Mounted Unit Combat
•	 Light cavalry and light bow cavalry units may either stay in 
position or move one, two, three, or four hexes and Close 
Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 2 battle dice. These units 
do not score a hit on a sword symbol in Close Combat.
• Light barbarian chariot units may either stay in position or 
move one, two or three hexes and Close Combat an adjacent 
enemy unit with 2 battle dice. A barbarian chariot unit at full 
strength Close Combats with 1 additional battle die and may 
ignore one flag rolled against it. A barbarian chariot unit loses 
these bonuses after its first block is lost, but this only takes 
effect when the unit is either attacked again by another enemy 
unit or is ordered to battle during its own side’s turn. As with 
warriors, the key point here is that a full strength barbarian 
chariot that loses blocks in a close combat, but is entitled to 
Battle Back, may roll 3 dice against the attacker who inflicted 
the first casualties. In subsequent attacks, either in this turn 
or any that follow, the barbarian chariot unit will only close 
combat with 2 dice.
•	 A medium cavalry unit may either stay in position or move 
one, two, or three hexes and Close Combat an adjacent enemy 
unit with 3 battle dice.
•	 A heavy cavalry unit (regular or cataphracted) may either stay 
in position or move one or two hexes and Close Combat an 
adjacent enemy unit with 4 battle dice. A heavy cataphracted 
cavalry unit may ignore one sword hit rolled against it in Close 
Camel Unit Combat
A camel unit (regular or cataphracted) may either stay in position 
or move one, two, or three hexes and Close Combat an adjacent 
enemy unit with 3 battle dice. When Battling Back in Close 
Combat (or from play of the First Strike card), a camel unit will 
only roll 2 battle dice. A cataphracted camel unit may ignore one 
sword hit rolled against it in Close Combat.
Camels vs. Cavalry and Chariots: Horses do not like the scent 
of camels, hence the following rules. When a cavalry or chariot 
unit is in Close Combat with a camel unit, the camel unit may 
ignore one blue triangle hit. If a cavalry or chariot unit is forced 
to retreat when in battle with a camel unit, it must retreat one 
additional hex for each flag rolled by the camel unit. 
Heavy Chariot Combat
A heavy chariot unit may either stay in position or move one or 
two hexes and then Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit with 
4 battle dice. When Battling Back in Close Combat (or from 
play of the First Strike card), a heavy chariot unit will only roll 3 
battle dice. A heavy chariot unit may ignore one sword hit rolled 
against it in Close Combat.
Elephant Combat
•	 An elephant unit may either stay in position or move one or 
two hexes and then Close Combat an adjacent enemy unit. In 
Close Combat, an elephant unit will roll the same number of 
battle dice as the unit it is attacking would normally roll against 
the elephant. 
•	 When an elephant unit Battles Back after being attacked in 
Close Combat it will roll the same number of dice as the unit 
which made the attack on the elephant unit normally rolls. 
(The elephant does not use any “bonus” die that the attacking 
unit receives.)
	 Special Situations:
	 Elephant against elephant—roll 3 dice.
	 Elephant against a leader—roll 1 die.
	 Elephant against a warrior unit—roll 3 dice.
	 Elephant against a heavy chariot unit—roll 3 dice.
	 Elephant against a camel unit—roll 3 dice. 
WARRIOR EXAMPLE: A player orders two unsupported units 
(a medium cavalry unit, and a heavy infantry unit). They are 
adjacent to an unsupported full-strength enemy warrior unit. 
The player chooses to conduct Close Combat against the warrior 
unit, using the medium cavalry first. The cavalry unit rolls three 
dice and scores one blue triangle hit and one flag. The warrior 
unit loses one block, but chooses to ignore the flag so that it can 
Battle Back. The warrior unit still rolls four dice (even though a 
block was lost in this combat) because it started this combat at 
full strength. The warriors roll one sword and one flag, scoring 
a block loss on the medium cavalry, and forcing it to retreat 3 
hexes. The first Close Combat is finished.
Because the Warrior unit is no longer at full strength, the warriors 
will not be able to ignore the first flag and must battle with only 
three dice in all subsequent combats. The heavy infantry unit now 
engages in Close Combat against the warrior unit, rolling five 
dice and scoring one sword hit, one blue triangle hit, and one 
flag. The warrior unit loses two more blocks and must retreat 2 
hexes because the flag cannot be ignored. The victorious heavy 
infantry unit may choose to Momentum Advance onto the vacant 
hex after the successful Close Combat.

EXAMPLE OF CLOSE COMBAT: The Roman player has used an 
‘Inspired Leadership’ command card to order the five Roman units 
shown above. All moves are completed before any Close Combat is 
conducted. Note that the movement routes shown above require mov-
ing the light cavalry first (otherwise it could not have moved through 
hexes B and C). For this example, the defending units eligible to 
Evade will not. Units will also ignore any flag results that can be 
ignored. The Carthaginian player hopes to Battle Back.
A: The auxilia unit moved two hexes so it may not engage in Close 
Combat. An alternate would have been to move the auxilia only one 
hex and conduct Ranged Combat with one die.
B: The warrior unit moves two hexes and must battle either the 
enemy heavy cavalry unit or the heavy infantry unit. The Roman 
player chooses the heavy cavalry unit. His warrior unit is at full 
strength, so he rolls 4 dice. He will score hits on red squares, swords, 
and leader symbols (because a leader is attached). Two or more 
flags rolled will force a retreat. Note that forcing a unit to retreat 
is one of the primary advantages gained by attacking first in Close 
Combat. If the defending unit is forced to retreat it may not battle 
back. The warriors score 2 hits but no flags! The heavy cavalry loses 
two blocks, but survives and may Battle Back with 4 battle dice. It 
will score hits with blue triangles and swords, but will need four 
flags to force a retreat.
C: The elephant can battle the heavy infantry with 5 battle dice, or 
the light bow infantry with 2 dice. Sensing a chance to destroy
the heavy infantry, the Roman player targets that unit, and rolls 5 
dice. He will obtain hits with red squares and swords only (Lead-
ers confer no benefits on Elephants in Close Combat, so the helmet 
symbols do not count). The elephant will force a retreat with two 
or more flags. The result is 1 red square hit, 2 sword hits, and 1 
flag. The elephants re-roll the 2 dice that produced the sword hits, 
but with no further hits or flags. The heavy infantry loses 3 of its 
4 blocks to satisfy the red square and sword hits. The Carthagin-
ian player chooses to ignore the retreat from the flag because the 
heavy infantry is supported (there are two adjacent friendly units). 
The heavy infantry holds and battles back with 5 dice (even though 
only 1 block survived). The Carthaginian unit will hit only on red 
squares (sword hits have no effect on elephants), and any flag will 
cause elephant rampage and retreat.
D: The light cavalry will battle the light bow infantry and will score 
hits only with green circles (swords do not cause hits), and will cause 
retreats with two flags. The defending light bow unit can choose to 
ignore one flag because it is supported, and if it does not retreat, it 
will Battle Back with two dice, scoring hits only with green circles, 
or retreats with two or more flags.
E: The heavy chariot unit battles the Carthaginian heavy chariot 
unit with 4 dice. It will hit on red squares and swords, and will cause 
a retreat with any flags (the chariots are not supported and have 
no leader to bolster morale). The defending chariot can ignore one 
sword hit, and if able to battle back, will roll 3 dice.
•	 A leader does not modify an elephant unit’s Close Combat 
dice (helmets do not score hits).
•	 Each sword symbol an elephant unit rolls in Close Combat 
scores 1 hit. Furthermore, each battle die producing a sword 
hit is rolled again for possible additional symbol hits, sword 
hits, or flag results. Play Note: In other words, keep rolling 
that die until a sword hit is no longer obtained! Take care to 
track the total number of flags and hits scored as you make 
additional rolls. All hits and retreats scored are applied only 
after the extra rolls have been completed.
However, if the elephant is attacking a unit that, due to terrain or 
its own ability, can ignore sword hits, you do not re-roll them.
Thus, if an elephant is attacking a Foot unit in a fortified camp 
(which can ignore one flag and one sword), the “first” sword the 
elephant rolls is not a hit and is not re-rolled. If the elephant rolls 

2 or more sword hits, those beyond the first do count as hits and 
are re-rolled. Since Elephants ignore all sword hits, if an Elephant 
was attacking another Elephant, any sword hits rolled would be 
ignored. (No re-roll.)
EXAMPLE: An elephant unit attacks an unsupported full-strength 
light infantry unit that chooses not to Evade. The elephants roll 
two dice because they are in Close Combat with a light infantry 
unit. The elephant unit scores one green circle hit and one sword 
hit. The die producing the sword hit is re-rolled and produces 
another sword hit. This die is rolled for a third time, producing a 
flag result. The die may no longer be re-rolled, and the damage 
to the light infantry unit is tallied: one green circle hit, two sword 
hits, and one retreat flag. The thoroughly beaten light infantry 
unit loses three of its four blocks and must retreat its maximum 
movement allowance of two hexes. The elephant unit may now 
Momentum Advance onto the vacated hex. 
•	 An Elephant unit ignores all sword hits rolled against it in 
•	 An Elephant unit will not receive close combat or morale 
benefits from an attached leader or close combat benefit from 
a leader in an adjacent hex.
Elephants vs. Cavalry and Chariots: Horses were easily fright-
ened by elephants in battle, hence the following rules: When a 
cavalry or chariot unit is in Close Combat with an elephant unit, 
the elephant unit may ignore one red square hit and one flag. If 
a cavalry or chariot unit is forced to retreat when in battle with 
an elephant unit, it must retreat one additional hex for each flag 
rolled by the elephant unit.
Leaders in Close Combat
Leaders engage in combat somewhat differently from units. A 
leader may not battle if he is alone in a hex. However, a leader 
will inspire attached or adjacent friendly units which are attacking 
or Battling Back in Close Combat. If a friendly leader is attached 
to or adjacent to the battling unit, the unit scores a hit for each 
leader helmet symbol rolled on its battle dice, regardless of the 
type of unit being attacked.
Exception: A leader does not modify an elephant unit’s Close 
Combat dice.
Score Hits 
In Close Combat, the unit attacking scores 1 hit for each die 
symbol rolled that matches the target unit. It does not matter 
whether or not the symbol has a white border.
•	 A green circle will score one hit on units with any kind of green 
circle symbol.
ELEPHANTS IN CLOSE COMBAT:
A: In battle A the elephants have attacked the heavy cavalry and 
inflicted one flag result. Heavy cavalry units normally retreat 
2 hexes but if attacked by elephants they retreat 3 hexes. The 
image above shows some of the retreat path options. Because it 
cannot retreat one of its hexes it will lose one block. The Roman 
elephant unit chooses to Momentum Advance onto the vacated 
hex, and chooses not to take a bonus Close Combat.
B: In battle B the Roman warrior unit inflicted two flag results 
on the Carthaginian elephant and so it must Rampage and then 
retreat two hexes. Note that the two friendly units behind the el-
ephant do not provide support (bolster morale) because elephant 
units cannot receive support—only provide it. First it Rampages 
against all adjacent hexes—five units in this case. The Roman 
player rolls two dice each for possible loss of the units in hexes 
X and Y, while his opponent rolls for the three Roman units still 
adjacent the rampaging elephant. (Note that the Roman elephant 
shown in the example has already Momentum Advanced into 
the hex it attacked, and thus avoids the elephant rampage.) If 
the Roman warrior unit is hit the leader attached must make a 
leader loss check. After rolling for all five hexes the elephant unit 
is retreated. Since its retreat path is blocked, it remains in place 
and the two friendly blocking units will suffer two hits each (one 
for each hex the elephant could not retreat). The Carthaginian 
elephant may now battle back against the warrior unit.

•	 A blue triangle will score one hit on units with any kind of 
blue triangle symbol.
•	 A red square will score one hit on units with any kind of red 
square symbol.
•	 One hit is scored in Close Combat for each sword symbol 
rolled (with some exceptions).
•	 One hit is scored in Close Combat for each leader helmet 
symbol rolled, if a friendly leader is attached to or adjacent 
to the unit that is battling, regardless of the type of unit being 
attacked. Exception: elephant units do not receive this leader 
benefit in Close Combat.
•	 A flag does not score a hit, but may cause the enemy unit to 
retreat (see Retreat). 
Exceptions:
•	 War machine units and green circled units without a white 
border (light infantry, light sling infantry, light bow infantry, 
light cavalry, and light bow cavalry units), do not score a hit 
on a sword symbol in Close Combat.
•	 Chariot units ignore one sword hit in Close Combat.
•	 Elephant units ignore all sword hits in Close Combat and 
ignore one red square hit from cavalry or chariot units in Close 
•	 A leader does not modify an elephant unit’s Close Combat 
•	 Camel units ignore one blue triangle hit from cavalry or chariot 
units in Close Combat.
•	 Cataphracted camel units ignore one sword hit and one blue 
triangle hit from cavalry or chariot units in Close Combat.
•	 Cataphracted heavy cavalry units ignore one sword hit in Close 
Effect of Close Combat Hits on Units
For each hit scored, 1 block is removed from the target unit. 
When the last block in the opponent’s unit is removed, the unit 
has been eliminated and you collect a Victory Banner block. If 
a player rolls more hits than the number of blocks remaining in 
the enemy unit, the additional hits have no effect. 
Hits on Leaders—see Leader Casualty Checks
6. Apply Retreats: See Retreat Section 
7. Possible Momentum Advance and Bonus Close Combat: 
see Momentum Advance 
8. Battle Back: In Close Combat, the defending enemy unit 
may Battle Back against the attacking unit if one or more of the 
defending unit’s blocks survived the Close Combat attack and 
the defending unit did not retreat from its hex. 
If the defending unit is forced to retreat out of its original hex, 
it may not Battle Back, even if the retreat move leaves the unit 
in a hex that is still adjacent to the attacking unit.
If the defending unit was unable to fulfill a required retreat, it may 
Battle Back as long as it still has one or more blocks remaining 
on the battlefield after taking losses (see Retreat). 
During a Battle Back, the unit determines any terrain battle dice 
reduction, and resolves Battle Back (roll battle dice and apply 
hits and retreats) in the same manner as the attacker.
Special Situations:	
•	 Elephant Battle Back against elephant—roll 3 dice.
•	 Elephant Battle Back against a warrior unit—roll 3 dice.
•	 Elephant Battle Back against a heavy chariot unit—roll 3 
•	 Heavy Chariots roll 3 dice in Battle Back.
•	 Camels and cataphracted camels roll 2 dice in Battle Back. 
12. RETREAT
Retreats are resolved only after any hits have been resolved by re-
moving blocks from the affected unit. For each flag rolled against 
the target unit, the unit must move one movement back toward its 
own side of the battlefield. A movement is the maximum number 
of hexes a unit may move when given an order. 
Exceptions: Warriors retreat 2 hexes. Elephants and auxilia 
retreat 1 hex. 
EXAMPLE: a light horse unit incurring one flag against it would 
retreat its maximum move of 4 hexes. If two flags were rolled 
against it, the light horse unit would have to retreat 8 hexes! 
A light infantry unit would retreat 2 hexes for each flag rolled 
against it. If three flags were rolled against the light infantry 
unit, it would have to retreat six hexes. 
The player controlling the unit decides which hex the unit retreats 
onto, using the following rules:
•	 A unit must always retreat toward its controlling player’s side 
of the board, regardless of what direction the attack came from. 
Units may never retreat sideways.
•	 Terrain that is not impassable has no effect on retreat moves, 
therefore a retreating unit may move onto and through a forest 
or a fordable river, etc., without stopping. However, impassable 
terrain blocks retreat.
•	 A unit may not retreat onto or through a hex already containing 
another unit (regardless if friend or foe).
•	 An attached leader must retreat with its unit if the unit is forced 
to retreat.
•	 A unit without an attached leader may retreat onto a hex that 
contains an unattached friendly leader (i.e. a leader alone in a 
hex). The leader is immediately attached to that unit and the 
unit’s retreat stops in the leader’s hex. The unit ignores any 
additional retreat movement. 
•	 If a unit cannot retreat because its retreat path is occupied by 
units (regardless if friend or foe), an enemy leader that is alone 
in a hex, or it is forced to retreat off the battlefield or onto a 
hex that has impassable terrain, one block must be removed 

•	 A unit may disregard one flag when supported by two friendly 
units. Support units may be in any two hexes that are adjacent 
to the unit.
•	 A leader, when alone in a hex, may act as an adjacent support 
unit and can provide support just as a unit does.
•	 Some terrain allows a defending unit on the terrain to disregard 
one flag (see Terrain). 
•	 Full-strength warrior units may disregard one flag result.
•	 Elephants may act as a support unit, but may not receive 
support from units or leaders.
Note that disregarding a flag result is purely a matter of choice. 
The owning player may decide he wishes to accept a flag result 
(which could take his unit out of danger). If more than one flag 
result can be ignored, the owning player can choose to ignore 
one (or more) and accept one (or more), but, if he accepts a 
flag result, he must retreat the full amount that each flag would 
normally cause. EXAMPLE, a medium cavalry unit with an at-
tached leader and bolstered morale receives 2 flag results from 
from the unit for each hex of the mandated retreat movement 
that the unit cannot fulfill. If a unit can retreat legally (first 
bullet) without taking block losses, it must take this retreat 
path Instead of one where block losses occur.
EXAMPLE: if a light infantry unit must accept a retreat result 
when it is on its own baseline, its retreat should be 2 hexes. 
However, because it is at the edge of the battlefield, it cannot 
make any retreat movement and therefore must lose two blocks 
—one block for each retreat hex it cannot fulfill. 
Bolster Morale
Some situations allow a unit to disregard one or more flags rolled 
against it. If more than one of the following situations applies, 
the effects are cumulative. A unit in such a situation may choose 
to disregard flags each time it is attacked.
•	 A unit may disregard one flag when a leader is attached to the 
unit (leader is in the hex with the unit). If the unit loses one or 
more blocks, the leader must survive the leader casualty check 
for the unit to ignore one flag.
EXAMPLE OF EVADE AND BATTLE
A: The medium infantry unit attempts to battle the light bow 
infantry unit (both units are reduced), but the defending unit 
Evades instead. The Roman player rolls 4 dice but only green 
circle symbols will hit. If the evading unit survives, it must be 
moved 2 hexes towards its battlefield edge. In this case it can only 
Evade one hex (which is allowed if there is no alternative).
D&E: The heavy infantry unit with an attached leader conducts 
Close Combat against hex D. Even though the heavy infantry 
unit has only one block left it still battles with 5 dice. The result 
is 1 hit and 1 helmet-enough to eliminate the unit. The heavy 
infantry unit and leader advance, and then make a bonus Close 
Combat against hex E. The cavalry unit evades. Before the Evade 
movement is carried out, the Roman player gets to roll 5 dice, 
but will only hit on blue triangle symbols.
B&C: The heavy cavalry unit (4 battle dice) Close Combats 
the chariot unit and forces it to retreat (chariots may not Evade 
against cavalry). The heavy cavalry unit can now make a Mo-
mentum Advance through the vacated hex and onto hex X. From 
there it conducts a bonus Close Combat against the slingers in 
hex C who have no chance to Evade. The result of 4 dice is 1 hit 
and 1 flag, and since the slingers’ retreat path is blocked, this is 
enough to eliminate the unit. The heavy cavalry unit could make 
another Momentum Advance onto the hex, but would not get the 
one additional hex or another bonus Close Combat this turn. 

hexes of the retreat path must each lose one block for each hex 
of its retreat that the elephant was unable to fulfill. A lone enemy 
leader is removed without a leader casualty check and counts 
as a Victory Banner. (A lone friendly leader does not block the 
elephant’s retreat. The elephant unit would move onto the hex 
with the lone friendly leader and cease further retreat. This is the 
only case where a leader can influence an elephant.)
ELEPHANT RETREAT EXAMPLE: An elephant unit is attacked 
and two flags are rolled against it. After the Rampage roll, the 
elephant unit must retreat 2 hexes, but two units occupy the 
elephant’s retreat path, a unit with one block and a full-strength 
unit. The elephant therefore will not retreat from its hex. Instead 
each unit in its retreat path must lose two blocks—one for each 
retreat hex the elephant cannot complete. The unit with one block 
is eliminated and the other unit must lose two blocks, gaining a 
victory banner for the opponent.
PLAY NOTE: Since scenarios end the instant the final Victory 
Banner is gained, a situation when an Elephant rampages or 
retreats could set up a victory dilemma, because it is possible 
that units from both sides are eliminated during a Rampage 
or an elephant retreat. The order of elephant rampage rolls is 
determined by the player that caused the Rampage. Resolve the 
Rampage die rolls, and award any Victory Banners one at a time 
for units eliminated by the Rampage. Using this procedure, a 
Rampage cannot cause a draw. When an elephant’s retreat path 
is blocked by units from both sides, remove all retreat losses at 
the same time and award any Banners which may occur as a 
result of the losses. If both sides gain a final Victory Banner as 
a result of these loses, the battle ends in a draw.
13. SPECIAL ACTIONS
Evade
When being attacked in Close Combat, the defender may an-
nounce the unit is going to Evade instead of staying and fighting 
in Close Combat. Note: An attacking unit may not Evade if the 
defender Battles Back. If the die roll against the evading unit 
eliminates the evading unit one Victory Banner is gained.
The attacking unit determines and rolls the proper number of Close 
Combat battle dice against the evading unit before it Evades, but 
only symbols that match the evading unit will score a hit. All other 
unit symbols, leader, swords, and flags rolled are ignored. 
a ranged fire attack. The owning player sees that he faces close 
combat that may be dangerous, so he chooses to ignore one flag 
and accept the other. He must retreat the unit 3 hexes or suffer 
normal consequences for being unable to do so.
Elephant Retreat (Rampage)
An elephant, when it retreats, goes on a Rampage before it is 
moved back. All units and any leaders who are alone in adjacent 
hexes (friend and foe) must check to see if they are trampled. 
(This can include the attacker who prompted the Rampage!) 
Roll two dice for each adjacent hex with a unit or a lone leader. 
During a rampage, your opponent rolls for hits on your units, 
and you roll for hits on his units. A hit is scored when the symbol 
rolled matches the unit type. A leader helmet will eliminate a 
lone leader. If the leader is not hit on the rampage roll he must 
evade. All other symbols are ignored.
After the Rampage, the elephant completes its retreat move-
ment. If the retreat path of an elephant unit towards its side of 
the battlefield is occupied by friendly units, enemy units, or a 
lone enemy leader, the elephant is not moved back and does not 
lose any blocks; rather, the units or enemy leader that occupy the 
EXAMPLE OF RETREATS: The medium cavalry unit in hex A 
has been attacked and has two flags rolled against it. The medium 
cavalry unit may ignore one flag because it is supported, but 
must still retreat 3 hexes. Fortunately, the first hex (X) contains 
a leader by himself, which attaches to the retreating unit and 
stops its retreat. The light cavalry in hex B is attacked and has 
two flags rolled against it. The light cavalry unit may ignore 
one flag because it is supported, but must still retreat 4 hexes. 
Because its retreat path is occupied by friendly units, it must 
lose all three blocks—one for each hex it could not retreat, since 
hexes X and Z are occupied by friendly units. The three-block 
loss eliminates the unit. Note that it could not retreat to hex Y 
because a retreat must always proceed in the direction of the 
unit’s battlefield edge. 

If the evading unit receives a hit and has an attached leader, a 
leader casualty check is made to see if the leader is hit, using 
normal rules.
Evade Eligibility: The following units may Evade:
•	 Light units (light infantry, light sling infantry, light bow 
infantry, light cavalry, light bow cavalry, barbarian chariot) 
may always Evade.
•	 War machine units may (almost) always evade. See War 
Machine Evade.
•	 A leader must Evade if he is alone in a hex (see Leader 
Evade).
•	 Medium cavalry, camel and cataphracted camel units may 
Evade all foot and heavy mounted units.
•	 Heavy cavalry, Heavy cataphracted cavalry and heavy chariot 
units may Evade all foot and elephant units. 
•	 Auxilia, medium infantry, warrior, heavy infantry, and elephant 
units may never Evade.
Evade Procedure: An Evade movement is a 2 hex move towards 
the unit’s own side of the battlefield. An Evade move of 1 hex is 
possible and is permitted, but only if it is the only possible hex 
available. A unit may not Evade if both hexes towards its side 
of the battlefield are occupied by impassable terrain hexes, units 
(regardless if friend or foe) or a lone enemy leader. 
If the first hex a unit evades to includes a lone friendly leader, 
the unit stops in that hex and the leader is attached to the unit. 
(This counts as a legal Evade.) 
An evading unit may not Battle Back, even when it ends in a hex 
that is adjacent to the unit making the attack. 
The attacking unit may not occupy the defender’s original hex, 
regardless of the result of the attacking unit’s die roll on the evad-
ing unit. Even if the evading unit is eliminated by the attacking 
unit’s die roll, the attacking unit may not enter the hex. 
NOTE: Evasion is not simply “running away.” Evading usually 
represents a fighting withdrawal that hinders the enemy advance, 
but at some risk to the unit.
War Machine Evade
The attacking unit rolls normally against the evading war machine 
unit. If the war machine unit is eliminated, the attacker gains a 
Victory banner. If not eliminated, the war machine unit executes 
a valid one or two hex evade move, and then the war machine 
unit is removed from the battlefield. The war machine crew has 
escaped and does not count as a Victory Banner. 
Leader Evade
Leaders Evade somewhat differently from units. A leader’s 
Evade movement is 1, 2, or 3 hexes back towards his own side 
of the battlefield.
When a leader is attached to a unit and the unit loses its last block 
by Ranged Combat or Close Combat, make a leader casualty 
check on the leader by rolling one die. To score a hit on the 
leader, you need to roll one leader symbol. If the leader is not 
eliminated, the leader must evade. If this occurs in Close Combat, 
the attacking unit may take a Momentum Advance because it 
eliminated the defending unit. 
When a leader is alone in a hex (unattached), and is attacked by 
Ranged Combat or Close Combat, the unit attacking the leader 
determines the normal number of battle dice to roll. To score a 
hit and eliminate the leader, you need to roll one leader symbol. 
If the leader is not eliminated, he must evade. The attacking unit 
may not make a Momentum Advance after Close Combat against 
an unattached leader, whether the leader is eliminated or not.
When a leader Evades he must follow these rules:
•	 A leader’s Evade movement is 1, 2, or 3 hexes back towards his 
own side of the battlefield. The player who controls the leader 
determines the number of hexes he will move, and which path 
he will take as he Evades.
•	 An Evading leader may move through friendly units, friendly 
units with an attached leader and friendly leader alone in a 
•	 A leader may not end his Evade movement in a hex that 
contains another friendly leader, impassable terrain, an enemy 
unit or enemy leader. However, a leader may Evade through a 
hex that contains a friendly unit or another friendly leader.
•	 An Evading leader may move through an enemy unit, but this 
is governed by the rules for Leader Escape.
•	 After completing his move, if the leader is on a hex with a 
friendly unit, he is considered attached to that unit.
•	 Units are not affected by a leader Evading through their hex. 
•	 You may choose to Evade your leader off your side of the 
battlefield. This saves the leader from becoming a Victory 
Banner for your opponent but you lose a strong command 
piece by doing so.
•	 If the leader cannot Evade a minimum of one hex (due to 
Impassable terrain) the leader is eliminated and the opponent 
gains one Victory Banner. 
Leader Escape 
If enemy units occupy one or two hexes of a leader’s designated 
Evade path, the evading leader must attempt to escape through 
those hexes.

Leader Escape Procedure:
•	 Move the leader onto one of the enemy hexes. Allow the enemy 
unit in the hex to battle the leader. The attacking unit uses its 
normal number of Close Combat dice. The leader does not 
benefit from terrain.
•	 To score a hit on a leader trying to escape, you need to roll one 
leader symbol. 
•	 If the leader is not hit, his escape is successful and he continues 
with his Evade move by moving onto the next hex. If this 
hex is also occupied by an enemy unit, the leader must again 
undergo the Escape procedure listed above. If his third hex of 
movement is also onto a hex with enemy units, he is eliminated 
and the opponent gains a victory banner. 
•	 If the leader ends his Escape move on a hex with a friendly 
unit, he is attached to the unit.
Examples of Leader Evade and Escape:
1) An enemy light infantry unit and medium 
cavalry unit occupy the two hexes behind a 
lone leader who must evade. The hexes behind 
these two enemy units are vacant. The leader 
chooses to evade through the hex with the 
light infantry because the opposing player will 
roll only two dice instead of the three dice the 
medium cavalry unit would roll. The opposing 
player rolls two dice and gets one sword hit 
and one red square. Since no helmet symbols were rolled, the 
leader successfully escapes and finishes the Evade move after 
moving one or two more hexes.
2) The hex behind a lone leader is vacant. The 
next hex is occupied by a medium cavalry unit. 
A friendly unit without a leader occupies the 
hex behind the medium cavalry unit. The leader 
could make a one hex Evade onto the vacant 
hex, but elects to Evade three hexes, ending on 
the hex with the friendly unit. Upon entering 
the second hex containing the medium cavalry 
unit, the Evade move is halted, and the oppos-
ing player rolls three dice, obtaining two flags 
and a green circle. Since no helmet symbols 
were rolled, the leader successfully escapes and 
continues the Evade move onto the third and final hex containing 
the friendly unit.
3) The only available Evade path has an enemy 
light infantry unit on the first hex and an enemy 
medium cavalry unit on the second hex. The 
evading leader moves onto the first hex and halts 
while the opposing player rolls two dice for the 
light infantry unit, obtaining a flag and a sword. 
The escape succeeds, but the leader now must 
undergo another escape attempt as the leader is 
moved onto the second hex. The opposing player 
rolls three dice for the medium cavalry unit, 
and obtains a blue triangle hit and two helmets. 
Only one helmet is needed, and the leader is removed, one hex 
short of safety. The opposing player earns one banner for the 
eliminated leader.
Momentum Advance 
When an ordered unit attacks in Close Combat and eliminates 
or forces the defending enemy unit to retreat from the hex it 
occupies, it has conducted a successful Close Combat. The 
victorious attacking unit may advance (move) onto that vacated 
hex. This is referred to as a Momentum Advance, where the 
unit’s momentum after the successful Close Combat carries it 
onto the vacated hex. 
A Momentum Advance after a successful Close Combat is not 
mandatory. However, if the Momentum Advance is not taken, the 
victorious attacking unit forfeits the possible opportunity to make 
a bonus Close Combat, even if adjacent to other enemy units.
Cavalry Special Momentum Advance: A cavalry unit (light, 
light bow, medium, heavy or heavy cataphracted cavalry), after its 
initial successful Close Combat, may Momentum Advance into 
the vacated hex and then move one additional hex. All camels, 
chariots and elephants, while considered mounted units, are not 
cavalry and are not eligible for the additional one hex movement. 
This one hex additional move is optional and is not required to 
conduct a bonus Close Combat. After a successful bonus Close 
Combat a cavalry unit may only momentum advance onto the 
vacated hex. 
The following situations do not allow Momentum Advance:
•	 If a defending unit Evades a Close Combat attack, the attacking 
unit may not claim a Momentum Advance onto the vacated 
•	 When a leader is alone in a hex and is attacked in a Close 
Combat, the leader must Evade. The attacking unit may not 
claim a Momentum Advance onto the vacated hex.
•	 A unit Battling Back is not eligible to take a Momentum 
•	 A unit ordered by a ‘First Strike’ card is not eligible to 
Momentum Advance, but the unit targeted by the First Strike 
remains eligible for Momentum Advance and possible bonus 
•	 Some terrain restrictions will prevent a Momentum Advance.
•	 A War Machine unit may never make a Momentum Advance.
Bonus Close Combat
After a successful Close Combat, some units that make a Mo-
mentum Advance are eligible to battle in Close Combat a sec-
ond time. This bonus Close Combat is optional and making the 
Momentum Advance does not require an eligible unit to attack 
in Close Combat again.
The following units may choose to conduct a bonus Close Combat 
after a successful Close Combat and Momentum Advance:
•	 A warrior unit may make a bonus Close Combat after a 
Momentum Advance. 

•	 A non-warrior foot unit with an attached leader (except for War 
Machines) may make a bonus Close Combat after a Momentum 
•	 A camel, cataphracted camel, cavalry, cataphracted cavalry, 
chariot, barbarian chariot or elephant unit may make a bonus 
Close Combat after a Momentum Advance. 
Note, a cavalry unit on its initial successful Close Combat 
may Momentum Advance into the vacated hex and then move 
one additional hex—in any direction (including back to their 
original hex). 
•	 Some terrain restrictions prevent a bonus Close Combat. 
A unit that qualifies for a bonus Close Combat attack after a 
Momentum Advance may choose to battle any enemy unit in 
any adjacent hex. It does not have to battle the enemy unit that 
just retreated from the hex. 
When a unit’s bonus Close Combat is successful it may Mo-
mentum Advance into the vacated hex but may not battle again 
this turn. A cavalry unit on a successful bonus Close Combat 
may only move onto the vacated hex, it may not move the one 
additional hex. Some terrain restrictions prevent movement into 
the vacated hex
14. Leaders
Leader Casualty Checks 
There are a number of situations when a leader casualty check 
must be taken. 
Attached Leaders: When a leader is attached to a unit and the 
unit loses one or more blocks without being eliminated, there 
is a chance the leader may also be hit. Make a leader casualty 
check by rolling 2 battle dice. To hit the leader, you need to roll 
two leader symbols. A leader casualty check must be made when 
a unit loses a block from: 
•	 Ranged Combat
•	 Close Combat
•	 Evading
•	 Failure to complete a retreat move
•	 Elephant Rampage
•	 Occupying an elephant unit’s retreat. 
•	 Rolling Fire (Expansion #2)
•	 Entering a Marsh hex 
NOTE: Only one leader casualty check is made during any 
combat sequence. 
EXAMPLE: when a unit with an attached leader loses blocks 
in Close Combat, a leader casualty check is made after the 
blocks are removed. If the unit also retreats because of flags on 
the same combat dice roll and the unit loses more blocks due to 
all retreat paths being occupied, another leader casualty check 
is not required. The flag losses are from the same combat dice 
roll and only one leadership casualty check is made on a leader 
during a combat sequence.
If a unit with an attached leader only takes flag results, there is 
no leader casualty check required unless the unit loses blocks 
when the unit is unable to retreat. 
Leader’s Unit Eliminated: When a leader is attached to a unit 
and the unit is eliminated, leaving the leader alone in the hex, 
the leader casualty check is made with only 1 die. To hit the 
leader, you need to roll one leader symbol. If the leader is not 
hit on this single die roll, the leader must Evade 1, 2, or 3 hexes 
back toward his own side of the battlefield (see Special Actions 
Leader Evade).
Flags rolled against a unit that was eliminated have no effect 
on the leader.
When the attached leader’s unit is eliminated in Close Combat, 
the attacking unit may Momentum Advance into the vacated hex 
after the leader Evades out of the hex.
Leader Alone in a Hex: When an unattached leader is alone in 
a hex and is attacked by Ranged Combat or Close Combat, the 
attacking unit rolls its normal number of battle dice. To score 
a hit on the leader, you need to roll one leader symbol. If the 
leader is not hit, he must Evade 1, 2 or, 3 hexes back towards his 
own side of the battlefield (see Special Actions Leader Evade). 
A lone leader who Evades or moves into a Marsh hex must roll 
one die. If a leader symbol is rolled, the leader is removed and 
the opposing player gains a Victory Banner block. On any other 
result, an Evading leader may stop or continue the Evade, and a 
moving leader must stop.
Flags rolled against a leader when alone in a hex, have no ef-
fect.
A unit attacking a lone leader in Close Combat may not Momen-
tum Advance into the vacated hex after the leader is eliminated 
or Evades out of the hex. 
Leader Hits 
If an opponent’s leader is hit, remove the leader block from the 
battlefield and collect a Victory Banner block. 
Summary of Leader Benefits
Leaders have beneficial effects when attached or adjacent to 
friendly units. A leader:
1.	converts leader symbol results into hits in Close Combat, when 
attached or adjacent to a friendly non-elephant unit in Close 
Combat. Note that a leader does not affect Ranged Combat.
2.	bolsters morale—any unit to which a leader is attached to 
may ignore 1 flag. And, an adjacent lone leader (plus one 
other adjacent friendly unit) bolsters morale the same as two 
adjacent friendly units.
3.	allows any foot unit to which it is attached to make a bonus 
Close Combat attack after a Momentum Advance (see 
Momentum Advance). 
Leaders also provide an enormous benefit when it comes to mov-
ing units with Command cards (see Command card section).

15. DRAW A COMMAND 
CARD
After completing all movement, battles, and retreats, discard the 
Command card played and draw another card from the deck. 
Your turn is now over. 
If the draw deck runs out of cards, shuffle the discards to form 
a new draw deck. (The discards are also shuffled back into the 
draw deck after the play of the ‘I am Spartacus’ card.)
When a defending player has used the ‘First Strike’ card, he draws 
to replace the card before the active player draws.
 
16. TERRAIN
Broken Ground
Movement: No movement restrictions for foot 
units except war machine units, which may not 
enter a broken ground hex. Any mounted unit 
or unattached leader must stop when it enters 
a broken ground hex and move no further on 
that turn.
Battle: A foot unit may battle on the turn it enters a hex with 
broken ground. A mounted unit may not battle on the turn it 
enters a broken ground hex. When battling an enemy unit on 
a broken ground hex or a unit on a broken ground hex battling 
out, will roll a maximum of 2 battle dice. A Command card that 
adds additional dice in battle will modify the maximum number 
of battle dice that may be rolled.
If a mounted unit enters Broken Ground on a Momentum Ad-
vance, it may not bonus Close Combat.
Line of Sight: A broken ground hex does not block line of 
sight.
Forest
Movement: All units and leaders must stop when 
entering a forest hex and may move no further 
on that turn. 
Battle: A unit may not battle the turn it moves onto a forest hex. 
Light infantry, light sling infantry, light bow infantry, auxilia 
infantry and warrior infantry units are the exception. These 
units may move onto a forest hex and still battle. These are also 
the only units which can Momentum Advance into a forest hex 
and have the potential for a bonus Close Combat. Other units 
which Momentum Advance into a forest hex may not bonus 
A unit battling an enemy unit on a forest hex or a unit on a forest 
hex battling out, will roll a maximum of 2 dice in close combat. 
A unit that targets an enemy unit on a forest hex with Ranged 
Combat will roll a maximum of 1 die. A Command card that 
adds additional dice in battle will modify the number of battle 
dice maximum that may be rolled.
Line of Sight: A forest hex blocks line of sight.
Hill
Battle: All units roll a maximum of 2 battle 
dice if battling an enemy unit that is uphill in 
Close Combat. Foot units roll a maximum of 
3 battle dice when battling an enemy unit that 
is downhill, and when battling from one hill hex to another hill 
hex. Mounted units roll a maximum of 2 battle dice when bat-
tling an enemy unit that is downhill or when battling from one 
hill hex to another. A Command card that adds additional dice 
in battle will modify the maximum number of battle dice that 
may be rolled.
Line of Sight: A hill hex blocks line of sight to units behind a 
hill hex. 
A unit on a lower level has line of sight onto the first hill hex 
and vice versa.
A unit on a lower level does not have line of sight through one 
hill hex onto a second hill hex with a unit and vice versa (i.e. a 
unit at a lower level is not able to see, or be seen, if at least one 
other hill hex is in between the two units).
Line of sight is not blocked between units on the same hill looking 
across hill hexes all at the same level (the units are considered 
to be on a plateau). 
Seacoast 
Movement: A Seacoast hex is impassable ter-
rain. Moving, retreating, evading, or escaping 
onto a Seacoast hex is not allowed.
Battle: Not applicable.
Line of Sight: A Seacoast hex does not block line of sight. 
NOTE: Seacoast hexes may also be used to denote the shore of 
a lake, with the same effects in the game. 
River
Normally river hexes are treated as impassable 
terrain. 
Fordable River (specified in scenario 
instructions)
Movement: All units and leaders must stop when 
entering a fordable river hex and may move no 
further on that turn.
Battle: A unit may battle on the turn it enters a 
fordable river hex. When battling an enemy unit 
on a fordable river hex or a unit on a fordable river hex battling 
out, both units will roll a maximum of 2 battle dice. A unit that 
battles with Ranged Combat out of a river will roll a maximum 
of 1 battle die. A Command card that adds additional dice in 
battle will modify the maximum number of battle dice that can 

be rolled. After a successful Close Combat, a unit on a fordable 
river hex may make a Momentum Advance out of that hex.
Line of Sight: A fordable river hex does not block line of 
sight.
Ramparts
Movement: No movement re-
strictions.
Battle: A Rampart provides 
protection along the two or three 
forward facing hex sides. 
Close Combat: When attacked by an enemy unit across a hex 
side with a rampart, the defending unit disregards one sword 
symbol and may disregard one flag rolled against the unit. Note 
that the defending unit does not receive rampart protection when 
the enemy unit is not attacking across a hex side with the rampart 
(normally this is from a hex directly to the side or directly behind 
the two rampart protected hex sides).
Ranged Combat: A unit attacked through a forward facing 
rampart hexside may disregard one flag rolled against it. 
NOTE: mounted units receive no protective benefit from ram-
parts.
Line of Sight: A rampart hexside does not block line of sight. 
Fortified Camp
•	 Close Combat: A unit defending on a fortified 
camp hex disregards one sword symbol and 
may disregard one flag rolled against it.
•	 Ranged Combat: A unit defending on a fortified camp hex 
may disregard one flag rolled against it. 
NOTE: mounted units receive no protective benefit from fortified 
camp hexes.
•	 A fortified camp hex offers this protection against attacks from 
all sides.
•	 A unit on a fortified camp hex rolls one fewer battle dice than 
usual when it battles (this applies to Close Combat and Ranged 
Fire).
Line of Sight: A fortified camp hex blocks line of sight.
The following terrain types are not used in the scenarios 
included with this game but come in expansions.
Bridge 
These rules are used for all bridges, including 
pontoon.
•	 A unit may battle on the turn it enters a bridge hex. A unit on a 
bridge hex battling out will roll a maximum of two battle dice 
in Close Combat or one battle die in Ranged Combat. A unit 
on a bridge hex may still make a Momentum Advance after 
a successful close combat. A foot unit defending on a bridge 
hex may ignore one flag rolled against it.
•	 When battling an enemy unit on a bridge hex, a maximum of 
two battle dice are rolled in Close Combat. Ranged Combat 
is unaffected.
•	 A Command card that adds additional dice in battle will modify 
Line of Sight: A bridge hex does not block line of sight.
Scalable City Walls
(use rampart terrain hexes for scalable city walls)
Movement:
•	 Foot units (except war machine) and Leaders: To move 
onto a scalable city wall hex, a foot unit or leader must start 
its move from a hex adjacent to the scalable city wall hex. A 
foot unit or leader that enters a scalable city wall hex must stop 
and may move no further on that turn. A foot unit or leader 
that moves off a scalable city wall hex may only move onto an 
adjacent hex and may move no further on that turn. Retreating 
or Evading Foot units or leaders do not have to stop when 
entering a scalable city wall hex.
•	 Mounted units and war machines: A scalable city wall hex 
is impassable terrain for a mounted unit or war machine. Both 
may Close Combat adjacent units on scalable city wall hexes 
if they begin their turn adjacent to the scalable city wall hex. 
Neither type of unit may retreat or evade onto a scalable city 
wall hex.
Close Combat: When battling an enemy unit on a scalable city 
wall hex or a unit on a scalable city wall hex battling out, the 
unit rolls a maximum of 2 battle dice in Close Combat. Any 
unit defending on a scalable city wall hex disregards one sword 
symbol and may disregard one flag rolled against it when attacked 
from any adjacent hex.
•	 A defending unit on a scalable city wall hex that cannot evade, 
or elects not to evade, will battle first (treat the defending unit 
as if it possesses a First Strike card, and treat the combat as 
a First Strike combat) when being attacked in Close Combat 
unless the attacking enemy unit is also on an adjacent scalable 
city wall hex.
Forward facing hex sides

Ranged Combat: A unit defending on a scalable city wall hex 
may disregard one flag rolled against it. Standard line of sight 
rules apply, and adjacent enemy units prevent Ranged Combat.
A Command card or leader that adds additional dice in battle will 
modify the maximum number of battle dice that may be rolled.
Line of Sight: A scalable city wall hex blocks line of sight to 
units behind the scalable city wall hex and vise versa. Line of 
sight is not blocked between units on the same scalable city wall 
looking along the scalable city wall hexes.
Fortified City Walls
(use rampart terrain hexes for fortified city walls)
Movement: Fortified City Walls are normally considered impass-
able terrain for all units, unless siege rules are in effect, as noted 
in the scenario special rules. When siege rules are in effect, the 
attacking foot units have scaling ladders, and fortified city walls 
are treated as scalable walls.
Battle: No battle possible unless siege rules are in effect for 
the scenario.
Line of Sight: A fortified city wall hex blocks line of sight to 
units behind the fortified city wall hex and vise versa.
Marsh
Movement: A unit or unattached leader must 
stop when it moves onto a marsh hex and move 
no further on that turn. The unit or unattached 
leader must also roll one battle die for a possible 
block loss. One unit block is lost when the unit’s 
symbol is rolled. A leader is eliminated when a leader symbol is 
rolled. Retreating or evading units or leaders do not have to stop 
when entering a marsh hex. A unit or leader that must retreat or 
evades onto or through a marsh hex must still check for a pos-
sible block loss for each marsh hex it retreats or evades onto or 
through. Marsh block loss die rolls are made prior to removing 
unit blocks for unfulfilled map edge hex retreats.
A unit or leader that leaves a marsh hex may only move onto an 
adjacent hex regardless of its normal movement allowance.
A war machine unit may not move, evade or retreat onto a marsh 
Battle: A unit may battle the turn it moves onto a marsh hex. 
When battling an enemy unit on a marsh hex, a maximum of 
2 battle dice are rolled in Close Combat. A unit that elects to 
advance onto a marsh hex after a successful Close Combat must 
check for possible block loss. A unit on a marsh hex battling 
out will roll a maximum of 2 battle dice in Close Combat, and 
1 die in Ranged Combat. A unit on a marsh hex that has not 
already moved this turn, may make a Momentum Advance out 
of the marsh hex onto the vacated hex after a successful Close 
Combat, but cavalry units may not make a Special Momentum 
the maximum number of battle dice that can be rolled.
Line of Sight: A Marsh hex does not block line of sight.
17 Special Units & Rules
NOTE: These rules are not used in the scenarios with the base 
game but are found in the expansions. For completeness, we 
include them here.
Special Unit Blocks
The first expansion introduced the concept of 
“special units” to represent the elite units of the 
Ancient World, such as Alexander’s Companion 
Cavalry or the Persian Immortals. When special 
units are present in a battle, they will be labeled on the battlefield, 
and the scenario instructions will specify that a Special Unit block 
will be placed in each special unit’s hex. The special rules will 
provide the increased abilities for each special unit. The Special 
Unit block moves with the unit. It does not count as a block that 
can be removed to satisfy losses. This block is not transferable 
to any other unit. If the special unit is eliminated, this block is 
removed from the map along with the last block of the unit.
The only scenario in the base game which really features an 
appropriate “special unit” is the Carthaginian Sacred Band 
unit, found in the Crimissos River Battle Scenario. It was an 
elite unit, so if you wish to replay this battle scenario with a 
more historically accurate Sacred Band, use the special abilities 
outlined below:
On the battlefield, the Sacred band is the heavy infantry unit 
directly below the hex containing the Hasdrubal leader. Place a 
distinct marker of some kind in the hex with the Sacred Band 
unit to distinguish it from other Carthaginian units.
Sacred Band special abilities:
• The Sacred Band will score one hit for each leader symbol 
rolled in close combat. A leader does not have to be attached 
or in an adjacent hex to confer this benefit.
• The Sacred Band may ignore one flag.
• The Sacred Band retains these special abilities until the last 
block of the unit has been removed from the battlefield.
Marian/Imperial Legions Rule
When this rule is in effect, medium and heavy Roman infantry 
units are armed with pilum and sword. These units are consid-
ered missile weapon capable units and must follow the rules for 
Ranged Combat when utilizing that capability.
Each medium and heavy Roman infantry unit has a range of two 
hexes and will roll 1 battle die when it holds or moves only one 
hex. As with other missile weapon capable units, These units may 
not perform both Ranged and Close Combat in the same turn. 
Julian Legions Rule
When the Julian Legions Rule is in effect, all Roman heavy 
infantry and medium infantry units are armed with pilum and 
sword and will follow the rules for Ranged Combat units, per 
the Marian/Imperial Legions Rule. 
In addition, all Roman heavy infantry and medium infantry units 
may move one hex and combat as normal, or may move 2 hexes 
and not battle.

18. Command Cards 
Section Cards (27 cards)
Section cards are used to order units and/or leaders in a specific 
section of the battlefield to move and/or battle. These cards 
indicate in which section of the battlefield you may order units 
or leaders and how many units or leaders you may order. All 
Section Command cards have a leader helmet symbol on the 
card, to remind players that one or more attached leaders in the 
section may be ordered to detach and move separately (for the 
cost of one order each) when the card is played. 
Order Two Units Left: Issue an order 
to two units and/or leaders in the left 
section. (3 cards)
Order Two Units Center: Issue an 
order to two units and/or leaders in the 
center section. (4 cards)
Order Two Units Right: Issue an order 
to two units and/or leaders in the right 
section. (3 cards)
Order Three Units Left: Issue an order to three units and/or 
leaders in the left section. (3 cards)
Order Three Units Center: Issue an order to three units and/or 
leaders in the center section. (4 cards)
Order Three Units Right: Issue an order to three units and/or 
leaders in the right section. (3 cards)
Order Four Units Left: Issue an order to four units and/or lead-
ers in the left section. (1 card)
Order Four Units Center: Issue an order to four units and/or 
leaders in the center section. (1 card)
Order Four Units Right: Issue an order to four units and/or 
leaders in the right section. (1 card)
Coordinated Attack: Issue orders to one unit and/or leader in 
each section. (2 cards)
Out Flanked: Issue an order to two units and/or leaders in the left 
section and two units or leaders in the right section. (2 cards) 
Troop Cards (10 cards) 
Troop cards allow you to order a specific unit type (Example: 
light, medium) to move and/or battle. Unless the card states 
otherwise, you may freely choose Foot or Mounted units... So 
“Order Light” means you can issue your allotment of orders to 
any combination of light Foot units or light Mounted units. Or-
dered units may be in any section of the battlefield. The number 
of units you may order is equal to your side’s Command, i.e. 
the maximum number of cards you may hold in your hand on 
that turn. (See “Command” under section 7 of the rules, ‘Order 
Units and Leaders’.)
Order Light Troops: Issue orders to a number of light foot and 
light mounted units less than or equal to your Command. Light 
foot units, including auxilia may move 
through a friendly unit. If you do not 
have any light units, you may order 1 
unit of your choice. (4 cards)
	 Light unit types: Light infantry, light 
bow infantry, light sling infantry, 
auxilia, light cavalry, light bow 
cavalry and barbarian chariot.
Order Medium Troops: Issue orders to 
a number of medium foot and medium 
mounted units less than or equal to your Command. If you do 
not have any medium units, you may order 1 unit of your choice. 
(3 cards) 
Medium unit types: Medium infantry, warrior, medium cavalry, 
camel and cataphracted camel.
Order Heavy Troops: Issue orders to a number of heavy foot 
and heavy mounted units less than or equal to your Command. 
If you do not have any heavy units, you may order 1 unit of your 
choice. (2 cards)
Heavy unit types: Heavy infantry, heavy war machines, 
heavy cavalry, heavy cataphracted cavalry, heavy chariot and 
Order Mounted Troops: Issue orders to a number of mounted 
units and/or leaders less than or equal to your Command. If you 
do not have any mounted units, you may order 1 unit of your 
choice. (1 card)
	 Mounted unit types: Light cavalry, light bow cavalry, 
barbarian chariot, medium cavalry, camel, cataphracted camel, 
heavy cavalry, heavy cataphracted cavalry, heavy chariot and 
Leadership Cards (6 cards)
Leadership cards allow you to order a leader, any unit to which 
the leader is attached, plus a given number of units or leaders in 
adjacent linked hexes to move and/or battle. Units in “adjacent 
linked hexes” may be in different sections of the battlefield, 
as long as each ordered unit is adjacent to at least one other 
ordered unit, and at least one of the ordered units is adjacent to 
the designated leader. In this way, a Leadership order enables 
you to order a “chain” or “wing” of units to move and/or battle 
in a coordinated fashion. A leader may not detach on a Leader-
ship Command card.
The two examples above show two possible ways a leader-
ship card can be used to activate a leader’s hex plus four 
adjacent linked hexes.

Leadership Any Section: Issue orders to units under one leader’s 
command (leader’s hex and 3 adjacent linked hexes) or order one 
unit of your choice. (3 cards)
Inspired Left Leadership: Issue orders to units under one 
leader’s command in the left section (leader’s hex and 4 adjacent 
linked hexes) or order one unit of your choice. (1 card)
Inspired Center Leadership: Issue orders to units under one 
leader’s command in the center section (leader’s hex and 4 adja-
cent linked hexes) or order one unit of your choice. (1 card)
Inspired Right Leadership: Issue orders to units under one 
leader’s command in the right section (leader’s hex and 4 adjacent 
linked hexes) or order one unit of your choice. (1 card) 
Tactic Cards (17 cards)
Tactic cards allow ordered units to move and/or battle in ways 
not allowed in the basic rules. Actions ordered on Tactic cards 
take precedence over basic rules.
Command cards that state ‘order units equal to command’ means 
the maximum number of units you may order is equal to your 
side’s Command (see 7: Order Units and Leaders). 
NOTE: on Tactic Command cards, Ranged Combat is sometimes 
referred to as Fire.
Clash of Shields: Order all units adja-
cent to the enemy. Units battle with 2 
additional dice in Close Combat. Units 
may not move before Close Combat 
but may Momentum Advance after 
successful Close Combat. If eligible for 
bonus Close Combat, units battle with 
normal number of battle dice. Ordered 
units may not have Ranged Combat. 
(1 card)
NOTE: All units adjacent to an enemy unit when this card is 
played are ordered. This can get a little confusing, especially 
as combats take place and enemy units are forced to retreat. We 
suggest that you mark the units eligible to battle before you start 
your Close Combats.
Counter Attack: Issue the same order 
that your opponent just played. When 
countering Section cards and Inspired 
Leadership cards, the right section 
becomes left, the left section becomes 
right. When countering Leadership Any 
Section, your orders must be in the same 
section your opponent chose. (2 cards)
NOTE: You cannot use Counter Attack 
on a First Strike card. 
Darken the Sky: All ranged weapon units may fire twice. No 
movement—only fire. Each Ranged Combat is resolved sepa-
rately. If you do not have any units with ranged weapons, order 
1 unit of your choice. (1 card)
NOTE: This means all ranged weapons units are considered 
“ordered.” While a unit cannot range fire if adjacent an enemy 
unit, if that changes during battling (perhaps because of fire 
from some other unit that eliminates or forces the adjacent unit 
to retreat), then the newly released unit is still ordered and may 
range fire.
Double Time: Order 4 or fewer foot 
units in a group (units in adjacent linked 
hexes that may span two sections). Each 
ordered unit (except war machines) 
may move two hexes and still engage 
in Close Combat. Warrior units may 
move 2 or 3 hexes, but must engage in 
Close Combat after doing so. Ordered 
units may not have Ranged Combat. If 
you do not have any foot units, order 1 
unit of your choice. (2 cards)
NOTE: Light foot units do not gain any movement advantage 
when part of a Double Time order. The Double Time card sym-
bolizes the final rush into Close Combat. Light foot units gener-
ally preferred to avoid Close Combat so they don’t have a move 
advantage. However, auxilia foot units gain a battle advantage 
when part of a Double Time order, as they can move 2 and still 
First Strike: Play this card after opponent declares a Close 
Combat, but before the dice roll. Your defending unit will battle 
first. If opponent’s unit is neither eliminated nor retreats, it may 
Battle as originally ordered. out its attack normally. At the end of 
the turn, you draw your new Command card first. (1 card)
NOTE: Regardless of the outcome of your First Strike, your unit 
is not eligible to Battle Back.
I Am Spartacus: Roll dice equal to Command. For each unit 
symbol rolled, one unit of this type is ordered. A leader symbol 
orders any unit or leader. Units may be ordered in any section. 
Ordered units battle with 1 additional die this turn. Reshuffle 
Deck & Discards! (1 card)
NOTE: Before drawing a new card, reshuffle the deck with the 
discards, including this card, to form a new draw deck. Cards 
in the player’s hands are not reshuffled.
Line Command: Order a group of foot 
units. The group must be in adjacent 
linked hexes (which may span two or 
three sections). Each unit may move no 
more than one hex and then engage in 
Ranged Fire or Close Combat if eligible. 
Units may Momentum Advance after 
successful Close Combat and may be 
eligible for bonus Close Combat. If you 
do not have any foot units, order 1 unit 
of your choice. (4 cards)
NOTE: Ordered units do not have to move to engage in com-
bat.

Move-Fire-Move: Order light foot and light mounted units equal 
to Command. Units may move, fire and move again. All units 
moving first must do so before any fire. After all Ranged Combat, 
units may move again. Order units may not Close Combat. No 
Ranged Combat after second move. Light foot units, including 
auxilia, may move through a friendly unit when moving two 
hexes. If you do not have any light units, order 1 unit of your 
choice. (2 cards)
PLAY NOTE: The three orders on this card are all optional—the 
first move, the fire (Ranged Combat), and the second move. The 
key here is that the all ordered units must complete their first move 
before there is any Ranged Combat. After all Ranged Combat is 
completed, ordered units may make a second move.
HISTORICAL NOTE: this card reflects the “hit and run” tac-
tics often used by light units in ancient warfare to harass and 
discomfit the enemy, before the heavier units engaged in close 
combat.
Mounted Charge: Order mounted units equal to Command. 
Units battle with 1 additional die in Close Combat, including 
any bonus Close Combat. Heavy units may move three hexes 
and still battle. Ordered units may not have ranged combat. If 
you do not have any mounted units, order 1 unit of your choice. 
(2 cards)
	 Mounted unit types: Light cavalry, light bow cavalry, barbarian 
chariot, medium cavalry, camel, cataphracted camel, heavy 
cavalry, heavy cataphracted cavalry, heavy chariot and 
NOTE: Heavy units that may move three hexes when given an 
order to charge include heavy cavalry, heavy cataphracted cav-
alry, elephants, and heavy chariots.
Rally: Roll dice equal to Command. 
For each unit type or leader symbol 
rolled, one unit of the appropriate type 
in or adjacent to a leader’s hex is rallied 
(replace a block in the under strength 
unit). Rallied units are ordered and may 
move and battle. Elephant and chariot 
units may not be rallied. If you do not 
have any leaders, issue an order to 1 unit 
of your choice. (1 card)
NOTE: Units may not gain more blocks than they had to begin 
with, but units may regain more than one block if they have lost 
more than one. Leader symbols can be used to rally any type of 
eligible unit. A unit already at full strength with or adjacent to 
a leader can never be rallied, regardless of the die roll. There-
fore only units which actually “regain” a block are considered 
ordered when rallied. All leaders on the battlefield may be used 
to rally under strength units. 
EXAMPLE: A leader is attached to a medium infantry unit with 
two blocks. He is adjacent to a friendly light unit and elephant 
unit that have each lost a block. The rally dice are rolled, and the 
results yield two leader helmets and two heavy unit red squares. 
Each helmet result can be used to replace one lost block of any 
eligible unit type. The player chooses to replace both lost blocks 
in the medium infantry unit and none in the light unit. The medium 
infantry unit is rallied and may be ordered to move and battle, but 
the light unit is not rallied and may not be ordered. The elephant 
unit cannot be rallied. Luckily, the player has another leader that 
is adjacent to two heavy units that have each lost two blocks. 
The player applies one red square result to each adjacent heavy 
infantry unit, replacing one lost block in each unit. Both heavy 
infantry units are rallied and may be ordered to move and battle. 
The player had the option of applying both red square results 
to only one heavy infantry unit; however, wanting to order both 
units, he restored just one block to each.
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
CREDITS
CREATION AND DEVELOPMENT: Richard Borg
DEVELOPMENT: Pat Kurivial, Roy Grider
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE: Dan Fournie 
ART DIRECTOR: Rodger MacGowan
BOX ART AND PACKAGE DESIGN: Rodger MacGowan
STICKER ART : Rodger MacGowan, Mike Lemick and
	 Mark Simonitch
MAP AND RULES LAYOUT: Mark Simonitch
RULES EDITOR: Kevin Duke
PLAYTESTING: Dave Arneson, Jim Berhalter, George Carson, 
Rik Fontana, Robert Granger, Brett Helgeson, Steve Malecek, 
Bill Massey, Paul Miller, Wayne Minton, Steve Niedergeses, 
Stan Oien, Mike Panko, Jeff Paszkiewicz, Anthony Ricardi, 
Louis Rotundo, Bob Santiago, Marty Schmidt, Ken Som-
merfield, Rick Thomas, Dan Van Horn, Miguel Marquez, 
Brady Severns and the entire GMT team
PRODUCTION COORDINATION: Tony Curtis
PRODUCERS: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, 
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch