Conan CCG ~ Core Set
Credits
Game Design: Jason Robinette
Game Development and Set Design: Jason Robinette and Zev Shlasinger
Additional Rules: Ian Taylor
Templates and Graphic Design: Seth Claybrook
Card Layouts: Jason Robinette
Artist Management: Zev Shlasinger
Concept Testing: Jason Robinette and Edward Lasso
Playtesters: Matt Blank, Mike Crow, Will Glenn Jr., Jeff Jarvis, Christian LaBoda, Edward Lasso, Ian Lim, James Mishler, Alan Murray, Joshua J Radke, Eric K. Rodriguez, 
Scott E. Roszkowski, Ian Taylor, Maxence Vetter, Wojciech Wisniewski, Steve Zamborsky
Special Thanks: Fredrik Malmberg and Thommy Wojciechowski of Conan Properties, Mark McNabb and MaryAnne Paquin for bringing color to the world of Conan, James 
Mishler for his Hyborian expertise, the staff at InQuest, Jeremy Atkins and the folks at Dark Horse Comics, Patricia Labelle and Sophie Gosselin of Integria, Sal Quartuccio, 
and everyone who gave us feedback and comments.
Never Played a Collectible Card Game Before?
 A collectible card game (CCG) is not like a regular card game. With a CCG, there may be hundreds or even thousands of different 
cards. Some of these cards are common cards, while others are uncommon, rare and ultra-rare.
 You don’t play a CCG with every card. Instead, you build a deck. How do you do this? Initially, you buy a starter deck, which contains mostly common 
cards. This starter deck is all you need to get started. Later, you can fine-tune your deck by buying booster packs, so that you can get different cards 
to enhance your deck. You’ll find that each match you play with your Conan Collectible Card Game deck will be different because of the different mix of 
cards. When you compete against your friends, each of you will bring your own deck and keep them separate from the other decks. Later, you might 
want to branch out and have more than one deck available to play.
Using this Rule Book
 So you’ve bought a starter deck, and now you don’t know what to do with it, eh? That’s where this rule book comes in. Before you 
can play Conan, you need to know the rules. It would be a good idea for you to get out your cards and refer to them as you read 
through this rule book.
The Hyborian Age 
 The purpose of the game is to have your deeds and adventures immortalized in song and story. To achieve fame and transform 
yourself into the most legendary adventurer in all of recorded history. To be crowned king of Aquilonia! 
Golden Rules
 The game text on a card may contradict the rules of the game. In these cases, the text of the card is correct.
 When we refer to Conan, we are also referring to the Active Player, i.e. the Active Player is Conan while his opponent(s) is his Foe. 
When it is a player’s turn, their Conan, Items, and Allies are in play, along with any Region played under their Conan. While a player 
is Conan, their Foes and Foe Deck are NOT in play. The opposite is also true. While it is not your turn, your Conan, Items, Allies, and 
Region under your Conan are NOT in play.
Objective
 You can win the game in a number of ways:
 • Any time a player has 40 or more Renown in their Chronicle Area during their Starting Step (and more than any other player), that 
player wins the game.
 • When any player’s Conan is defeated (reduced to 0 Health).
 • When a player has zero cards remaining in their Foe deck and Foe Discards, and no Foes in play, that player is defeated and the 
surviving player(s) with the most Renown wins.

Card types:
Foe
 When it is your opponent’s turn, you are the Foe player. All your cards will affect 
the Active player, who is Conan. Your Conan and his Items and Allies are not 
considered in play for any purposes, nor anything in your Chronicle Area. These 
cards feature blue backs. Foe cards form their own deck (Foe Deck) and discard 
pile (Foe Discards).
Ally
 Allies are played during the Prepare Step 
of your turn, when you are Conan. The 
requirement to play an Ally is listed in the text 
box of the specific card (usually based on 
Conan’s current Scar count, or Renown total). 
Allies do not have a cost to be played. 
 When you play an Ally, if it has a Draw: value, 
you may draw up to that many cards.
 Allies stay in play until removed by some 
means (such as being defeated in combat) or 
until the Rest Step. 
Remember! If Conan Presses On, any 
remaining Allies stay in play because Conan 
does not go to his Rest Step.
Action
 Actions can be played as indicated on 
the specific cards. They have keywords 
describing in what Step they can be played 
and further instructions are written in their 
text boxes. Ignore the Prowess cost listed 
on its gem when playing it as an Action. If 
the Action is played as a move, then you pay 
the Prowess cost. Actions played as moves 
ignore the game text: that text is only active if 
played as an Action. 
Move
 Moves can only be played during combat. In order to play a move, you must pay the Prowess cost printed on the 
gem. Many Moves have abilities, and these will specify which character may use the ability. If there is more than one 
ability on a Move, the same character may use more than one ability on that Move if they qualify. Example: A Human 
Veteran Foe that plays a move that features an ability that says “Foe (Human):” and another ability that says “Foe 
(Veteran):” would be able to use either, both, or neither of those abilities, as the Foe’s controller sees fit. For Foes, 
unless the ability is related to the cost of the Move, or has some other effect related to playing the Move, it takes place/
effect when the Move is revealed.
Region
 Regions may be played by Conan or by a Foe. The Conan player may play a Region during their 
Prepare Step, and a Foe player may play a Region when Foes are drawn. When played, it is placed 
beneath the Active player’s Conan, so that the game text is visible. Only one Region can be in play under 
a Conan at a time: if there is a Region in play under the Active player’s Conan, and a new Region is 
played, the previous Region is discarded from play. Regions played under a Conan are only in play during 
that Conan player’s turn.
Item
 Items are played during the Prepare Step of the Active player’s turn. You do not 
pay the Prowess cost of an Item (unless you are using it as a move). Most items 
have a Scar value requirement. You must have at least that many Scars to bring 
the Item into play. Unless otherwise noted, all Items have no cost to be played.
 When you play an Item, if it has a Draw: value, you may draw up to that many 
cards. Items only count in play when it is that Conan’s turn – when you are a Foe 
player your Items do not count as being in play. 
Conan
 When it is your turn, you are the Active player, you are Conan. Each player begins with one Conan in play. Conan 
does not directly encounter any other Conan.

Card parts:
Damage – Found on: Allies, Conan, Foes
This value determines how much Damage a character deals to a character’s Health in combat. If the character’s move hits, they 
deal this base Damage to the character they hit with the first unblocked offensive icon, and +1 Damage for each additional unblocked 
offensive icon.
Prowess – Found on: Allies, Conan, Foes
This value is used to play moves and pay other costs.  While the Prowess on Allies and Foes resets each combat round, Conan’s 
Prowess lasts for the entire turn, only replenishing during his Rest Step.
Health – Found on: Allies, Conan, Foes
This value is used to keep track of a character’s current status. If a character ever drops to 0 Health, they are defeated. If a character 
needs to pay a Prowess cost or lose Prowess and cannot, any remaining cost must come from their Health.
Vitality – Found on: Conan
An ability on Conan. During the Rest Step, Conan may lose Prowess up to his Vitality value, and Heal 1 point for each Prowess lost.
Renown – Found on: Allies, Foes 
Any card with this value adds to a player’s Renown total when that card is in their Chronicle Area. If your Ally is defeated, you must 
lose Renown from your Chronicle Area equal to the Renown of the Ally. On Foes, this also determines if the Foe is Minor (4 or less) or 
Major (5 or more).
Scars – Found on: Foes
While in a player’s Chronicle Area, cards with Scars add to that player’s Scar total. This affects the Foe player’s Foe Draw (The total 
Foe Draw is +1 for every 3 Scars the Active player has).
Card Type – Found on: Actions, Allies, Foes, Items, Moves, Regions
This determines the type of the card.
Keywords – Found on: Actions, Allies, Foes, Items, Moves, Regions
These have a variety of effects. On Actions, they determine when the card can be played. On Items and Moves, they tell a player what 
type of Item or Move it is. On Foes, they tell a player what type of Foe it is, which restricts what other Foes may share a zone with it.
Initiative – Found on: Actions, Items, Moves
This determines the speed of the card when played as a move. 5 is the fastest, and 1 is the slowest. This is ignored on Actions and 
Items if they are not played as a move.
Combat icons – Found on: Actions, Items, Moves
These icons are used to determine the effects of a card played as a move in combat. They allow the move to either hit, block, or miss. 
These are ignored on Actions and Items if they are not played as a move.
Prowess gem – Found on: Actions, Items, Moves
This determines the cost of the card when played as a move. Conan must lose this much Prowess to play the card (losing Health if his 
Prowess is depleted).  Allies and Foes must have this much Prowess to play the card, or they will lose Health equal to the difference. 
This is ignored on Actions and Items if they are not played as a move.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Game Setup
 Players place their Conan cards face up in front of them, and then place their 
Draw Deck and their Foe Deck across from each other, also in front. 
 Randomly determine who will go first. This player becomes the Active player. 
The Active player is considered to be Conan. 
 Players shuffle both their decks and draw cards from their Draw Deck. The first 
Active player draws 5 cards, and the other player(s) draw 7 cards. This is for the 
first turn of the game only. After the first turn, all players’ hand sizes are set at 7.

Turn outline: 
	
• Start of Turn
	
• Prepare Step
	
• Warrior Step/Thief Step
	
• Rest Step
Start of Turn
 This is where your Renown is checked to see if you are the winner. Also, if anything references “the beginning of your next turn” this is 
the Step it refers to.
Only a player starting his turn checks for victory. Players choosing to Press On return to their Prepare Step.
Prepare Step
 The Active player may play any number of Item cards, Allies, and Action cards that have the Prepare keyword. A player may only have 
one of each of the following in play:
	
• one Weapon Item card
	
• one Shield Item card
	
• one Body Item card
 Any Item card played will cause any other Item cards with the same type to be discarded from your play area (Example: You play a 
Shield Item card. Your previous Shield, if any, is discarded from play). If the new Item doesn’t have a Weapon, Shield, or Body type, 
you ignore this rule. You may have any number of Items in play that do not have a type.
 When the Active player is done playing cards (and any effects from those cards are dealt with) play proceeds to the next Step.
You don’t pay the Prowess cost for Items unless they are played as moves during combat.
Warrior Step
 At this point, you will choose which Step to take for the turn, but for now, you may only choose the path of the Warrior. (The Thief Step 
will be available in a later expansion.)
 The Warrior Step is broken down into the following Phases:
	
Foe Draw
	
Survey
	
Foe Move 
	
Conan Move 
	
Barbarian
	
Resolution
At any time, you can play Action cards with the Warrior keyword during any of these phases, where appropriate (as referenced in the 
text of the Action card). Foe players may also play Foe:Warrior Action cards where appropriate.
 To prepare for combat, the Active player moves his Conan card forward to the center of the table.
Foe Draw Phase
 The opponent reveals five Foe cards plus one for every three Scars the Active player has in his Chronicle Area. These cards are 
revealed from the top of the opponent’s Foe Deck. 
 The Foe player chooses which Foe cards to play. Foes with 4 or less Renown (Minor Foes) are free to play. Foes with higher Renown 
(Major Foes) can only be played by discarding Minor Foe cards equal to their Renown minus four. This is their cost to be played. 
Example: a Major Foe with 7 Renown can only be played by discarding three Minor Foe cards. 
Only Minor Foes may be discarded to play Major Foes!
 At least one Foe MUST be played. If none of the revealed Foes can be legally played, the Active player may choose one Foe from 
the revealed cards to face Conan in this phase. Any unplayed Foes are discarded to the Foe Discards. If the Active Player does not 
choose any of the Foes to face, they are all discarded to the Foe Discards and a new hand of Foes is drawn. 

Survey Phase (the start of a round of combat)
 Conan may now survey the battlefield, sizing up his opponents. If he wishes to Retreat, he may do so at this time. If he does so, 
combat ends immediately. The Active player loses Renown equal to the total Scars of the remaining Foes. This is done by the Foe 
Player returning Foe cards back from the Active Player’s Chronicle Area to their Foe Discards up to his Renown loss without going over. 
Conan may NOT Press On if he Retreats. Example: Conan Retreats from a fight with a Major Foe. Since the Foe has 4 Scars, the Foe player 
may remove Foe cards with a total Renown up to 4. The following Foes are in Conan’s Chronicle Area: Gray Ape (Renown 5), Kozaki Outrider (Renown 
2), and Ravenous Wolf (Renown 1) – the Foe player may take the Wolf (1) and the Outrider (2), or only the Wolf (1) or the Outrider (2) if he chooses. 
The Ape (5) could not be chosen at all.
 When Conan Retreats, the Foes remaining in play are discarded to the Foe Discards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You cannot play moves between moves played by two adjacent Foes with the 
Veteran trait.
 If Conan plays a move in a zone, he loses 1 Prowess for any move that his move was not adjacent to. Example: There are three Foes in 
the Center zone. Conan plays a move between Foe 1 and 2, but since he did not play a move adjacent to a move played by Foe 3 he loses 1 prowess. 
If he only played a move against Foe 1, he would lose 2 Prowess for not affecting 2 Foes.
 Allies may play moves against Foes in the same zone as Conan is playing or in different zones. Allies can affect one zone. Allies 
have a Prowess like Foes and any cards they play above that Prowess incur wounds to meet the difference. Allies cannot take enough 
wounds to kill them in order to play a move. When an Ally plays a move during the Warrior Step, place the Ally on the corner of that 
The opponent places Foes one at a time into the play area around Conan. The 
four combat zones are CENTER, LEFT FLANK, RIGHT FLANK and REAR. 
Foes cannot be placed in the Flanks or the Rear if there is no Foe in the 
Center, and Foes can only be played in the Rear if there is at least one Foe in 
one of the Flanks. Other restrictions in placing Foes are as follows: 
No more than 3 Foes may be in a specific zone at one time. 
When playing Foes, you cannot play Foes of different types in the same zone. 
Territories are ignored for this purpose. Example: a Human Foe can only be played 
into a zone with other Human Foes. An Animal Foe can only be in a zone with other 
Animal Foes, etc.
Foe Move Phase
 Each Foe must now play moves face down, with the top edge of the card 
facing Conan. Foes may play moves with a Prowess cost equal to or less than 
their own Prowess. Foes may also play moves with a higher Prowess cost, but 
that Foe will take wounds equal to the difference. You can NOT play a move 
with a Prowess difference that will kill the Foe.
Example: A Foe with a Prowess of 3 wants to play a move with a Prowess cost of 5. 
When the move is placed face down, the Foe player adds 2 wounds to that Foe. 
 If you do not have any cards in your hand that could be played for a Foe 
without killing it, you must reveal your hand to the Active player. Then look at 
the top card of your Draw Deck. If it can be played for that Foe, play the move 
as normal. If not, it is discarded, and you must draw again. If you do this three 
times and are unable to find a card that can be played by that Foe, the Foe is 
defeated, and placed in the Active player’s Chronicle Area. 
The Foe Player cannot play a move with Prowess so high it would kill the Foe!
Conan Move Phase
 Conan may now play his own moves, face up with the bottom edge of the card 
facing Conan, placing each move to the left or the right of his opposing Foes’ 
move cards. He may play up to 2 cards per Foe move (one per side) but may 
only play moves in a maximum of 2 zones. Example: Conan may respond to an 
attack on the Center and Left Flank if he wishes, but he would not be able to play moves 
to his Right Flank or Rear if he does. 
 Moves played between adjacent Foes’ moves will affect both Foes.

move to indicate that they, not Conan, are performing that move. Allies’ Prowess resets each round of combat. 
 Once Conan is done playing moves, all the Foe moves are flipped over. The Foe moves must still have their top edge facing Conan. 
If any of the Foes reveal moves that the Foe could not have legally played, that Foe is immediately defeated and scored appropriately.
Barbarian Phase
 Before resolving combat, Conan may use any and all BARBARIAN abilities listed on his card or granted by other cards. He may not 
use the same ability more than once per round of combat, regardless of the source. BARBARIAN abilities are cumulative if you wish. 
Example: If your Conan has BARBARIAN: Strength 1, and he plays a card that gives him BARBARIAN: Strength 1, you could choose to have them add 
together, giving you BARBARIAN: Strength 2.
Resolution Phase
 Combat is resolved for each zone separately. The Active player selects the first zone to resolve, followed by the Foe player. This 
alternates until all zones have been resolved.
 Hits are determined by which icons are unblocked. You check the side of a card that has an opponent’s move adjacent to it: the other 
side, if no opponent move is present, is ignored. If both sides of a Foe move have an opponent’s move adjacent to it then both sides of 
the Foe move will resolve (and the Foe might be hit twice, once on either side).
 Within each zone, Initiative 5 moves are resolved first. Then, the player controlling the attack chooses one unblocked offensive icon 
(if any) to deal Damage. Check the base Damage of the character using the move and add +1 Damage for each other unblocked 
offensive icon.
 Damage dealt during the same Initiative is simultaneous. If Damage is dealt to a character that is sufficient to defeat them and they 
have a move in play with a lower/later Initiative, that move will not resolve.
 Initiative 4 moves are now resolved. This is followed by Initiative 3, 2, and finally 1. Note that icons are present at all times; Initiative 
only determines when a move deals Damage, not when the icons appear.
 If Conan does not play a move adjacent to at least one side of a Foe move, that move is unblocked and will deal Damage normally. 
The Foe player must choose one side of his move card to deal Damage. In this case, the Foe player may choose to have it Damage an 
Ally rather than Conan.
Example: Conan has played a Merciless Stroke, and the Foe 
has played a Grievous Slash.  Since both are Initiative 3, 
they will resolve simultaneously. The Foe’s Grievous Slash is 
blocked, while Conan’s Merciless Stroke is partially blocked. It 
still gets through, dealing Conan’s base Damage to the Foe. 
The Blade icon on the other side of the Foe’s move misses 
and is ignored, as there is no move adjacent to it.  
Example, Conan has played a Savage Strength, and the 
Foe has played a Sweeping Slash.  Conan’s move is 
Initiative 3, so it will resolve first.  Conan’s Grapple icons 
are not blocked by the Foe’s Shields, so the Savage 
Strength will deal Conan’s base Damage, +1 Damage for 
the additional unblocked offensive icon. If this is enough 
Damage to defeat the Foe, its move will not resolve, 
as it is slower (Initiative 2). If the Foe survives, it’s two 
Sword icons will hit for the Foe’s base Damage, +1 for the 
additional unblocked Blade icon.
Example, Conan has played Split Head Like Ripe 
Melon between the moves of two Foes. The Foes 
have played Run Through and Grisly Execution. 
Conan’s move is Initiative 2, so it will resolve 
after the two Foe moves (Initiative 3 and 4). The 
Blade icon on the Grisly Execution (Initiative 4) is 
unblocked, and will deal the base damage of the 
Foe using it. One of the Blade icons on the Run 
Through (Initiative 3) is blocked, but the other gets 
through; dealing the base damage of the Foe that 
used it. Conan’s Split Head move (Initiative 2) 
now resolves. While one of the Blade icons on 
the left was blocked, each Foe will still be hit with 
one Blade icon, and will therefore be dealt Conan’s 
base Damage each.

 Any Foe move that successfully hits through a move played by an Ally deals Damage to the Ally that played the move (rather than to 
Conan). If an Ally is defeated by having their Health reduced to zero, Conan loses Renown equal to the Renown of the defeated Ally. 
The Foe player decides which Foes to take back from the Chronicle Area to meet this number (read the example about Retreating 
during the Survey Phase for an example of this).
 After all of the zones have been resolved, and any Foes remain, all players draw cards equal to the number of remaining Foes and 
Allies, and return to the Survey Phase for the start of the next round of combat. 
 If the dust clears and only Conan remains, Foe players refill their hands to 7 cards, and Conan may choose to Press On or Rest. If he 
chooses to Press On, he returns to his Prepare Step. If he chooses to Rest he enters the Rest Step. Conan cannot Press On if he has 
0 Prowess or 0 cards in hand.
If Conan Presses On, he does not get any more cards or regain any Prowess (without cards to help)!
Rest Step
 These events take place in the following order:
 • Players may play Action cards with the Rest (or Foe:Rest) keyword (Actions may not be played for the remainder of the Rest Step).
 • Discard any Allies you have in play.
 • Return Conan to your side of the table from the center.
 • Conan’s Prowess returns to its Starting Value.
 • Conan may spend Prowess up to his Vitality number and Heal that amount.
 • All players draw up to 7 cards or discard down to 7 cards.
 • The turn is now over. Play passes to the left (or the opponent in a two player game.)
Sample Play
It is several turns into the game. Tom, who is playing Conan the Bold, has 32 Renown, 13 Scars, 17 Prowess, and 8 Health. He is in his Prepare Step 
with a full hand of 7 cards. 
He then plays Carousing, dropping his Prowess by 3 to 14 and chooses to increase his Health by 3 (to 11). He feels ready to face the Warrior Step.
Ian, his Foe, draws 9 Foe cards (5+4 for the Scars). He reveals: Hyrkanian Swordsman, two Cimmerian Warriors, 
Ghost Snake, Man Ape of the North, two Khitan Peasants, Aquilonian Footsoldier, and Thak.
cost 5 Prowess and that would kill the Swordsman to play any one of them. So he reveals his hand to his opponent to show that he cannot play the 
moves in his hand. He looks at the top card of his Draw Deck: another 5 Prowess card. He discards it and looks at the next card. This one works and is 
placed face down in front of the Swordsman. (This is good because he only had one more draw to find a playable card, or the Swordsman would have 
been instantly defeated. You can’t stand around doing nothing when fighting a Cimmerian, after all!)
Neither player has any effects to play, so Ian discards both Peasants to pay for Man Ape. He 
discards the Aquilonian Footsoldier to pay for Thak. 
The remaining Minor Foes are kept and Ghost Snake is discarded.
Now Ian has to decide where to place his Foes. He places both Cimmerians in the Center, Thak on 
the Left Flank, Man Ape on the Right Flank and the Hyrkanian Swordsman takes up the rear. In this 
way, at least 2 zones will be unopposed.
Neither player plays an Action, so Ian places moves face-down for his Foes. Thak, the Man Ape, 
and the first Cimmerian get moves with no problems. However, the other Cimmerian plays a move 
that gives him 2 wounds (thus indicating the move costs 5 Prowess, 2 more than the Prowess of the 
Cimmerian Warrior). Ian has two more cards in his hand but he can’t play any of them as they both
Conan surveys the oncoming battle and decides to tough it out. He can only affect two zones so this 
round of combat is crucial: kill as much as possible and take the least amount of damage. Conan 
faces Man Ape with a Desperate Lunge on the left side of Man Ape’s move, costing him 2 Prowess 
(he’s now at 12). Against the Cimmerians he places an Intimidating Posture on the far right paying 
4 Prowess (3+1 for not affecting one Foe in the same zone). Because he wants to increase his 
chances of defeating both Foes, he plays a Tremendous Cleave (costing 5 Prowess) between them. 
The text on Intimidating Posture does not take effect because it is played as a move. Conan’s 
Prowess is at 3.
The Foe moves are now revealed. Conan plays I Am a Cimmerian! He discards a card to gain 5 
Prowess, bringing him up to 8. He has one l card left in his hand.
No other Actions are played. It is the BARBARIAN phase. Conan decides to use his Reflexes 1 to 
discard then draw 1 card. Tom smiles, as he discards a move he did not want to play, and draws a 
Telling Blow… a very useful card! Ian cannot use his Conan’s BARBARIAN ability because Ian is 
the Foe player and his Conan is not in play.

There are 2 Foes left over (Thak and the Swordsman) so both players draw 2 cards and return to the Survey Phase. Conan, at 3 Health, does not feel 
that facing these Foes in another round of combat is wise, and decides to Retreat. He loses 3 Renown for the 3 Scars left on the table when he runs. 
The two remaining Foes are placed in Ian’s Foe Discards, and Ian removes 3 points worth of Renown from Conan’s Chronicle Area (leaving him with 41 
Renown). These Foes are also placed in Ian’s Foe Discards. Ian draws to 7 cards as Conan enters his Rest Step. 
Conan has 2 cards in hand. He plays Storytelling, discarding the other card in his hand as part of its cost. This heals Conan for 5 Health, putting him 
at 8 Health total. He has no further Actions to play, so he restores his Prowess to 20. He decides to usehis full Vitality, losing 3 Prowess and healing 3 
Health. Then he draws to a hand of 7 cards. At the end of the turn, Conan is at 41 Renown, 17 Prowess and 11 Health. He will win the game unless 
Ian can get to 41 or more before Tom’s next turn.
Other rules of note
Modifiers – Damage may only be modified if Damage is actually dealt. If something deals +1 Damage, it can modify an attack that 
deals 0 damage, but it cannot modify an attack that does not successfully hit.
 If a player’s Draw Deck is depleted at any time, that player immediately reshuffles his Discard Pile into his Draw Deck. This can 
happen even during the resolution of an effect. Example: An effect says to draw 3 cards. You only have 1 card in your deck. You 
would draw the last card remaining, immediately reshuffle your Discard Pile into your Draw Deck and then draw 2 more cards.
 If a player’s Foe Deck is depleted at any time, that player immediately reshuffles his Foe Discards into his Foe Deck. This can happen 
Conan now chooses to resolve the Center zone with the two Cimmerians. His Tremendous 
Cleave is in between a Slay from the Saddle on the right and a Fists of Iron on the left. The 
Intimidating Posture is matched up against the other side of Slay from the Saddle. We see that all 
the moves but one are Initiative 3 so they all take place simultaneously except Fists of Iron, which 
will go first with its 4 Initiative. 
The Fists of Iron hits first with an unblocked Grapple icon, dealing the Cimmerian Warrior’s 1 
Damage to Conan. This takes Conan to 4 Health.
Conan’s Tremendous Cleave hits only the Cimmerian on the left as the Slay from the Saddle’s 
Agility icon avoids the Two-Handed icon of the Tremendous Cleave. However, the Intimidating 
Posture does get through, since the Grapple icon is not blocked by the Shield icon on Slay from 
the Saddle. Conan is able to defeat both foes, doing 3 Damage to the right-hand Cimmerian with 
Intimidating Posture, and 4 Damage to the left-hand Cimmerian Warrior with the Tremendous 
Cleave (3+1 from the text of the Move). The other Cimmerian, though, hit with the single Blade 
icon on the Slay from the Saddle, doing 1 Damage to Conan, bringing him to 3 Health! 
Conan has gained another 6 Renown bringing him to 44.
This leaves the Hyrkanian Swordsman. But Ian played Overhead Block as the Swordsman’s 
move, which has no offensive icons. This round of combat is over. 
Magic Icon – This icon is a little different than the other combat icons. If it appears on a move that is played by anyone 
other than a Sorcerer, it has no effect. It does not deal Damage by itself, but instead uses the Sorcerer’s text to determine 
its effects. If a Magic icon is being used as another icon (via a Sorcerer’s text or other ability) then it counts as that icon 
type, and not as Magic. 
Multi-icons – These icons are based on the existing icons (Blade, Grapple, etc) but they are risky. If any portion of 
the multi-icon is blocked, it deals no damage whatsoever. If it is completely unblocked, it deals the base Damage of 
the character that is performing the move for each icon that appears inside the multi-icon. (A triple Blade icon that is 
unblocked would deal the base Damage of the character three times)
Conan now gets to resolve the zone of his choice. He chooses to resolve the fight with Man Ape of the 
North. Conan’s Desperate Lunge has met Man Ape’s Storytelling (the text is ignored because it is an 
Action played as a move). Both moves would hit (neither the Blade icon of Conan’s move blocks Man 
Ape’s Ranged icon and the Ranged icon does not block the Blade icon) but since Desperate Lunge is 
Initiative 4, it takes effect first. The Blade icon hits for Conan’s base damage of 3. Not enough to kill the 
Man Ape. However, before Ian has to place 3 damage counters on Man Ape, Conan plays Telling Blow by 
losing 2 Prowess (he’s now at 6 Prowess) to deal +2 Damage (for a total of 5 Damage), killing the creature 
before its Storytelling resolves. - Man Ape of the North goes into Conan’s Chronicle Area bringing his 
Renown to 38.
Ian now gets to choose a zone to resolve. He chooses Thak’s zone, which has a Forceful Lunge as its 
move. Since the move is completely unblocked, Ian gets to choose which side affects Conan and he 
chooses the side with the 2 Grapple icons. Both hit, doing Thak’s base Damage of 3+1 for the extra icon 
that hits. Added to that is Thak’s ability which does another +1 Damage for every Grapple icon that hits 
– that’s 2 more Damage. The total Damage to Conan for this move is 6, reducing Conan’s Health to 5. 
Ouch!

even during a Foe Draw. 
 Conan may use any offensive icon from his Moves even if he doesn’t have the corresponding Weapon card. For example, Conan 
can play a Ranged move without a ranged Weapon card. This just means that rather than fire a crossbow, he threw a rock, a jug, or a 
person at his opponent. Part of being a Barbarian is improvising weaponry!
 If there is ever a tie between Conan and his opponent, Conan breaks the tie. This includes effects that resolve simultaneously and 
try to do opposing things. If there is ever a conflict between effects, Conan gets to choose which one happens. Note that this does not 
supersede Initiative value – If there’s a tie in Initiative, the moves are still considered to be simultaneous.
Multiplayer Rules
 The rules for multiplayer are much like the 2-player game with a few changes. If a rule is not listed in this section, then it is unchanged 
from the standard rules. 
Since Conan will have multiple Foe Players, the player to Conan’s left is the Primary Foe Player. 
Foe Draw Phase: The number of Foes drawn is still a base of 5 (plus additional draws based on Conan’s Scars). Each Foe Player 
draws an equal number of cards with any odd draws starting from the Primary Foe Player. 
Example: A Foe draw of 8 is required in 4-player game. Each of the 3 Foe Players draws 2 Foes with a third Foe being drawn by the Primary Foe Player 
and the Foe Player to his left for a total of 8 Foes drawn. 
Choosing of Foes: The Foe Players may discuss which Foes should be played. Foe Players may discard their Minor Foes to help 
play a Major Foe belonging to another Foe Player. If the Foe Players cannot come to a decision as to which Foes get played and which 
zone they should be played in, the Primary Foe Player makes all final decisions in that regard. 
 Foe Players can only play moves for their own Foes, never for someone else’s Foe. However, Foe Players can play as many Foe: 
Action cards as they wish, as appropriate. The Primary Foe Player cannot affect such decisions. 
Zones: When choosing which zone to resolve, Conan still goes first, then the Primary Foe Player, alternating until all zones are 
resolved.
Retreat: The Primary Foe Player chooses which Foes are returned to their owner’s Foe Discards.

Glossary
Action (card type) – Actions are cards that are found in the Draw Deck. These cards 
have no base cost to play. Their text will describe how they are played, and their 
keywords will describe what steps they may be played in. Actions may be played as 
moves during combat, but their game text will be ignored.
Active player – The player whose turn it is. That player is Conan.
Ally (card type) – Allies are cards that are found in the Draw Deck. These cards are 
played during your Prepare Step, remain in play until the Rest Step, and are then 
discarded. You must have the required number of Scars or Renown to play an Ally. Like 
Foes, Allies’ Prowess regenerates each combat round.
Any – An action with this keyword may be played in any Step or Phase at any time Action 
cards may be played. When played, they are considered to have the keyword of the Step 
or Phase during which it was played.
Barbarian Ability – Barbarian abilities typically appear in the text box of your Conan 
character card. Barbarian abilities may also be granted by other cards. These abilities 
are cumulative if you so wish.
Character – Conan, Foes, and Allies are all considered Characters.
Chronicle Area (play area) – An area of the game. Cards that appear in your Chronicle 
Area are scored based on Renown. Cards in your Chronicle Area are not considered
to be in play and do not affect the game (unless they state otherwise.)
Combat Icons – These icons are used to determine hits and/or blocks during combat.
Conan Only – If a Move has this text, only Conan can play it. It may not be played by a 
Foe or an Ally.
Damage – This value determines how much Damage a character will deal to a 
character’s health. 
Discard – Taking a card from your hand or from play and placing it in the discard pile. 
You can only discard a card if a card or effect tells you to. If something is to be discarded 
from play rather than from your hand, the effect that is causing it will specify from play. 
Otherwise, all discards are from the hand.
Discard Pile – Cards from the Draw Deck that are done resolving and cards that are 
discarded go to the Discard Pile. Cards in the Discard Pile are face up and public 
knowledge. Cards in the Discard Pile have no effect on the game. 
Draw Deck – Your pile of undrawn cards. At the start of the game, your Draw Deck must 
contain at least 40 non-Foe cards (it may contain more). You may have no more than 
3 copies of any card, and no more than 1 copy of any UNIQUE card. Once the game 
begins, deck construction rules no longer apply (as long as you started the game with 
a legal deck). If a player’s Draw Deck is depleted at any time, that player immediately 
reshuffles his Discard Pile into his Draw Deck. This can happen even during the 
resolution of an effect. If you ever search your Draw Deck for any reason, you must 
reshuffle it unless otherwise specified.
Foe (card type) – Cards that represent enemies of Conan. Foes are played by the Foe 
Player. When playing moves for Foes, their Prowess value regenerates (resets) each 
combat round. Foe cards have a blue back.
Foe Deck – A deck that contains only Foe cards. The Foe Deck must contain at least 25 
cards (it may contain more). You may have no more than 3 copies of any card, and no 
more than 1 copy of any UNIQUE card. The total Renown of the Foes in the Foe Deck 
must total 95-105 points. Once the game begins, deck construction rules no longer apply 
(as long as you started the game with a legal deck). If a player’s Foe Deck is depleted at 
any time, that player immediately reshuffles his Foe Discards into his Foe Deck. This can 
happen even during the Foe Draw. If you ever search your Foe Deck for any reason, you 
must reshuffle it unless otherwise specified.
Foe Discards – Cards from the Foe Deck that are discarded go to the Foe Discards. This 
pile is similar to the Discard Pile. When you discard unused Foes, and Minor Foes to 
play Major Foes, they are placed here. Cards in the Foe Discards are face up and public 
knowledge. Cards in the Foe Discards have no effect on the game. 
Foe player – Any player in the game during another player’s turn. Foe Players play Foes 
and Foe moves.
Game Text – This refers to any text on a card that affects game play, that is not a 
keyword, title, trait, or type.
Hand (play area) – An area of the game. Cards in your hand are hidden from your 
opponent. You are considered to have a hand even if there are no cards in it.
Heal – To recover Health or to remove wounds from Conan, an Ally, or a Foe. You cannot 
go higher than the card’s Starting Health Value.
Health – If your Conan’s Health is ever reduced to zero, you instantly lose the game. 
Foes and Allies are defeated if their Health is reduced to zero.
Icon – These are the icons that are used in combat. They represent bladed attacks, 
shield blocks, and more.
Ignored – If something is ignored, it is treated as if it is not there/present.
In Play – During a player’s turn, their Conan, Allies, and Items are in play. Their opponent’s 
Foes, and any Region played beneath their Conan (by any player) is also in play.  All other cards 
are NOT in play (their own Foes, and other player’s Conans, Items, Allies, and Regions beneath 
other Conans).
Item (card type) – Items are cards that are found in the Draw Deck. These cards are played 
during your Prepare Step, and they remain in play. Items may be played as moves during 
combat, but their game text will be ignored.
Magic Icon – If this icon appears on a move that is played by anyone other than a Sorcerer, it has 
no effect. It does not deal Damage by itself, but instead uses the Sorcerer’s text to determine its 
effects. If a Magic icon is being used as another icon (via a Sorcerer’s text or other ability) then it 
counts as that icon type, and not as Magic.
Move (card type) – Moves are cards that are found in the Draw Deck. These cards are played 
during your Warrior Step for Conan or for Foes, as appropriate. Moves may ONLY be played 
as moves. The game text on Moves will indicate if there are any bonuses, effects, or abilities 
granted by that Move (i.e. a Move that says “Conan:” means that any text following Conan: will 
benefit the Conan player if they are performing that Move). If a Move has more than one ability 
that can be used by the character playing the Move, they may use any or all of them.
Multi-icons – These icons are similar to other offensive icons. If any portion of the multi-icon is 
blocked, it deals no damage whatsoever. If it is completely unblocked, it deals the base Damage 
of the character that is performing the move for each icon that appears inside the multi-icon (A 
triple Blade icon that is unblocked would deal the base Damage of the character three times).
Negative – No number in the game can ever go into negatives after being modified. It will always 
become zero.
Press On – After combat has ended, Conan may decide to do it all over again! He may Press 
On, returning to his Prepare Step. He does not draw cards or regain Prowess, though any Allies 
he has in play do remain in play. Conan may not Press On with 0 cards in hand or 0 Prowess, 
but may use Items like Wineskin to add to those values before deciding to Press On.
Prowess – Conan’s stamina, skills, and overall ability to perform maneuvers and attacks. You 
spend Prowess in order to play moves in combat, as well as to perform other actions. If you 
have zero Prowess you may use your Health to pay Prowess costs instead. If you must lose 
Prowess and do not have sufficient remaining, you MUST lose Health to make up the difference. 
If you have zero Prowess you cannot Press On.
Region (card type) – Regions are cards that are found in the Draw Deck. They represent 
Conan’s travels, and the homelands of some of Conan’s Foes. When played, a region is placed 
beneath the Active player’s Conan, so that the game text is visible, and is only in play during that 
Conan player’s turn. Only one Region may be in play (per Conan) at a time, so when a Region is 
played, any Region in play under the Active player’s Conan is discarded.
Renown (victory condition) – Your Renown is equal to the total Renown in your Chronicle Area. 
If, during your Start of Turn, you have 40 or more Renown (and more than any other player) you 
win the game.
Retreat – During the Survey Phase, Conan may retreat. If he does, the Foe Player adds up the 
total Scars of the Foes Conan ran from and removes Foe cards from that Conan’s Chronicle Area 
with Renown up to that Scar total. These are then placed in the owning player’s Foe Discards. 
This may be done during the first Survey Phase of a Warrior Step.
Savage – A Trait of some Foes. Savage Foes must be played alone in a zone.
Scars – Your Scars are equal to the total Scars in your Chronicle Area. Scars appear on Foe 
cards. The Foe Draw is increased by 1 for every 3 Scars in the Active player’s Chronicle Area.
Skip – If a Step or Phase is skipped, you pass through it without triggering or playing anything.
Solitary – A Trait of some Foes. If you play a Foe with this ability, all other Foes in play are 
discarded.  No other Foes may be played while there is a Solitary Foe in play.
Sorcerer – This is a special type of Foe. They may be in a zone with either Supernatural Foes or 
Human Foes. See Magic Icons.
Starting Value – The maximum values for Conan’s statistics. A value cannot rise above its 
Starting Value.
Territory – Many Foes have a territory listed in its keyword area, after their type. The third 
keyword (if any) is always their territory (Khitai, Cimmeria, Stygia, etc). This is typically where 
that Foe can be found, or where they originally come from.
Trait – These are the words on a character that appear in red text. They may be referenced on 
moves and actions just like keywords. When a character’s text is blanked, they do NOT lose 
their traits. These traits include: Unique, Mounted, Serpent, Veteran, Undead, etc.
Type – Each Foe has a type listed in its keyword area, after “Foe”. The second keyword is 
always their type (Human, Creature, Animal, etc).
Veteran – A Trait of some Foes. Conan cannot play a move between moves played by adjacent 
Veteran Foes.
Vitality – An ability on Conan.  This allows Conan to Heal during the Rest Step by losing 
Prowess.
Zone – This is one of four areas where Foes will be placed when they attack Conan. The zones 
are: Center, Left Flank, Right Flank, and Rear. Each zone can only hold up to 3 Foes at once (or 
one Foe with the Savage trait), and Conan may only affect 2 of the 4 zones each turn.