TM
Concept in a minute
A white liquid that’s something you eat? Obviously this is milk.
We’re searching for an activity or a sport that uses a white ball. 
Let’s add a sub-concept to narrow the possibilities:
Hmm, this activity or sport also uses a cylindrical wooden tool. Now add another sub-concept:
The country is the United States, so we’re talking about baseball!
Here we’re searching for a metallic building located in a place or country associated with the colors blue, 
white and red (and not a building that’s blue, white and red). Seems like we’re looking for the Eiffel Tower.
Now a red liquid instead of white? Ketchup, perhaps, or red wine.
Here we’re searching for an animal that’s associated with water. What first comes to mind? A fish.
This is a chainsaw, that is, a mechanical tool that cuts wood.
A man of the arts with a cut ear? Have you guessed? It’s Vincent van Gogh, of course!
Concept contains more to discover than food and animals. If I indicate to you:
Concept is not limited to simple words as it’s also possible to guess famous personalities:
You may have noticed that so far we have used a pawn and cubes of only one color. By adding pawns and 
cubes in different colors, you can add sub-concepts to clarify the main concept being sought.
 Examples:
Game overview
In Concept, your goal is to guess words through the association of icons. A team of two players – neighbors at 
the table – choose a word or phrase that the other players need to guess. Acting together, they place pieces 
judiciously on the available icons on the game board. The first player to discover the word or phrase receives 
2 victory points, the team receives points as well, and the player who ends up with the most points wins.
Note that we’ve been designating the main concept with the green pawn, 
then bringing one or more sub-concepts into play to clarify the main one.
You can find more examples at the end of these rules.

Components:
• 1 game board with universal icons
• 5 sets of pawns and cubes:
• 1 green set consisting of the main concept pawn 
(the large question mark) and 10 cubes
• 4 sets (blue, red, yellow, black) that each consist of 
a sub-concept pawn (the exclamation mark) and 8 cubes
• 110 Concept cards, each with 9 words/phrases 
in three categories of difficulty: Easy, Hard and Challenging.
• Tokens for Single and Double victory point tokens 
(Single are worth 1 VP, while Double are worth 2 VP)
• 2 player aids
• 1 bowl for storage
Clarifications:
• The other players can try to guess the concept as often as they wish.
• The team members can say “yes” when others give a good answer or are following 
the correct line of thought, but they cannot otherwise communicate directly with 
the other players. 
• The order in which the team members place cubes on the board can be important. 
Don’t hesitate to remove the cubes and place them again to emphasize the order in 
which they appear.
• The team members should talk and consult with one another discreetly as they might 
not be thinking along the same lines when it comes to giving clues!
• The team members are free to place the cubes as they wish; they are NOT obliged to take 
turns when doing so.
• The team members can use as many pawns and cubes as they want to aid others in 
guessing the word, but they should be careful not to confuse the other players with too 
much information. There are no limits or penalties for the number of pieces used!
• After some time, if no one guesses the word, the team members choose a third player to 
assist them. If despite this helping hand, no one can guess correctly, the players abandon 
the word and no one scores any points this round.
• The player aids contain a non-exhaustive list of meanings for the universal icons. Feel free 
to read the descriptions to discover the wealth of possible meanings.
• If the other players are lost, the team members can choose to wipe the board clean of 
pawns and cubes, then restart their clue-giving along a different path.
 Editor’s note:
• During our extensive testing, we eventually abandoned the points system and 
kept only the pleasure of guessing and being guessed. Feel free to do the same 
as your enjoyment of the experience will be just as large!
• With regard to the level of difficulty, we decided not to grant more points for 
those who guess words in the Hard or Challenging categories. If you like, you 
can reward this level of difficulty by giving 1 or 2 additional VPs to the team and 
to the player who guessed the word. 
Game end:
Once the 12 Double VP tokens have been claimed, the game ends. The player or players 
who have scored the most VPs win the game.
The first player to find the solution wins 1 Double token (worth 2 VPs) while each member of the team 
whose word was guessed wins 1 Single token (worth 1 VP). Then the next two players clockwise around 
the table take a new card to choose a word for others to guess.
Game round:
The team draws a Concept card and selects a word or phrase from the list that 
the other players will guess. For your first few games, we recommend that you 
choose an Easy word.
Note that Challenging words require mastery of the game by all players.
Place the main concept pawn first to represent the word to be guessed, then 
place cubes of the same color to clarify this main concept. Then if needed 
or desired, develop sub-concepts by placing additional pawns and their 
correspondingly colored cubes (see examples).
Game set-up:
Place the icon game board in the center of the table so that all players can easily see and access it. Shuffle 
the deck of Concept cards and place it face down, then create a pile of 12 Double VP tokens and lots of 
Single VP tokens. Place the pawns and cubes in the bowl: They are valuable tools for guessing the words! 
Now determine in some manner the two neighbors at the table who will form the first team.
Rules of the game
EASY
HARD
CHALLENGING

Concept is a game that can be tamed and customized. Use the material as you see fit! All ideas, even crazy 
ones, can work – as long as the other players can understand you. Here are more examples:
A fictional movie with two men of different sizes? You still haven’t found an answer? 
Let’s add a sub-concept.
We’re searching for a man whose work involves fighting. A boxer? Someone in the military? 
Let’s add a sub-concept.
So we have a masculine job of some sort. Tell me more.
An ice cube, with “cold” here being used to indicate temperature.
The universal icons have several similar but different meanings that can be used to great effect:
This set of clues indicates a snail, which everyone knows is a hermaphrodite.
A large green animal that’s old or from long ago? A dinosaur.
Ah, the movie is black-and-white. Must be Laurel and Hardy.
We recognize the flag of Japan, but are still in the dark. Add another sub-concept.
The man is on top of or above or higher than the animal. Hmm...
A large, brown speedy animal is now part of the concept, but how?
Ah, it’s a fighter from the past – a samurai!
The country is the United States, so this is a cowboy!
Here “cold” indicates the winter season, aiding players in guessing Christmas, a holiday or event that often 
features toys.
A conflict and a multitude of pieces on man? This is war!
Additional examples:

A comic book, no doubt. What’s next?
A small male character who’s thoughtful or clever.
A wide male character with blue and white clothing.
What’s a yellow drink at parties that makes your head spin? Champagne!
A small white house pet.
And the two men fight Italians in early time? Roman times! Asterix and Obelix!
Most likely an actor or director.
A ship is going down – it’s sinking, and there’s lots of death.
Must be the Titanic, so it’s Leonardo DiCaprio!
CREDITS
Authors:
Alain Rivollet & Gaëtan Beaujannot
Development:
“The Belgians with Sombreros“ a.k.a. Cédrick Caumont & Thomas Provoost
DTP director:
Alexis Vanmeerbeeck
Rules proofreading:
Ann Pichot, Axel Koszo
Art and DTP:
Éric Azagury & Cédric Chevalier
Production manager:
Guillaume Pilon
Translation:
W. Eric Martin & Éric Harlaux
Thanks to :
Yannick Mescam & Emilie Fleuret, Denise Stallings, 
participants of the Belgoludique and the Gathering of Friends.
Concept is a game from REPOS PRODUCTION.
Rue Lambert Vandervelde, 7 • 1170 Brussels - Belgium 
www.rprod.com • +32 471 95 41 32
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2013. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
The material in this game uses certain trade names and trademarks, whether registered or not, 
that are the property of their respective owners. This game and the use of this material is in no way sponsored, 
supported, commissioned or approved by the holders of these brands, including all rights reserved. This material 
may be used only for personal and private amusement.