Introduction
During the Renaissance, Italy was divided into 
numerous independent city-states, sometimes 
friendly, sometimes hostile. The best known of 
these were Genoa, Florence, the Duchy of Milan, 
and the Republics of Venice.
This is the era in which the Condottieri appear: 
leaders of mercenary armies who offered their ser-
vices to the most powerful cities. Formidable strat-
egists and highly skilled soldiers, the Condottieri 
were not content to just hire out their command 
and their troops; they reshaped the political map 
of Italy with their intrigues, alliances, battles, and 
sieges. The most daring among them founded new 
dynasties: Francesco Sforza took possession of 
the Duchy of Milan, and Giovanni de Medici made 
Florence his kingdom. 
In CONDOTTIERE, you relive this incredible age, 
when anything seemed possible for a handful of 
determined men. In this game, you represent a 
Condottiere trying to conquer the most famous 
cities in Italy. But be careful, you are not alone! You 
must take into account the ambitions of the other 
Condottieri. The strength of your army alone will 
not suffice: You must use diplomacy if you want a 
chance at victory. 
Object of the Game
The goal of CONDOTTIERE is to conquer city-
states, unite them, and create the most powerful 
kingdom in Italy.
The first player to control a certain number of 
regions wins the game. A player can win more 
quickly if he controls adjacent regions. Regions are 
adjacent if they share a common border. 

In a game with 4, 5, or 6 players, the first player 
to control 5 total regions or 3 adjacent regions 
wins the game. In a game with 2 or 3 players, the 
first player to control 6 total regions or 4 adjacent 
regions wins the game.
For more details on the game’s victory conditions, 
see “Winning the Game” on page 16.
Components
• 1 game board representing a map of 
Renaissance Italy. The game board is 
divided into 17 regions, each of which is 
marked by its dominant city. 
• 110 cards, which are used to resolve 
battles between the Condottieri.
• 1 Condottiere token. The player with 
this token chooses the region in which 
the next battle will be fought.
• 1 Favor of the Pope token. Any region 
with this token is said to “have the favor 
of the Pope” and may not be attacked.
• 36 control markers in 6 different 
colors. These are used to mark which 
regions have been conquered by the 
players.
• This rulebook.

The Game Round
A game of CONDOTTIERE is played over many 
game rounds. During each game round, one or 
more battles will be fought. When all but one 
player has played all their last card, new cards will be 
drawn and a new game round will begin.
At the beginning of each battle, the player with 
the Condottiere token must place it in a region of 
his choosing. This region will be the site of a battle 
between the players. 
The Play Area for a 4-Player Game

Important: The Condottiere token may not be 
placed on a region that has the favor of the Pope 
or on a region that has already been conquered by 
another player.
Battle Overview
During each battle, players take turns placing cards 
faceup on the table in front of them, forming their 
battle lines. A player’s battle line shows the forces 
he will take into battle. Once all players are done 
placing cards, the battle is concluded, and the player 
with the highest total strength in his battle line con-
quers the contested region. Then a new region is 
chosen, and another battle is fought.
Starting the Game
1. Place the game board on the center of the table. 
2. Each player chooses a color and places his con-
trol markers in front of him. These pieces will mark 
the regions conquered during the game.
3. The youngest player takes the Condottiere token, 
placing it in front of him. He then shuffles the deck 
and deals 10 cards facedown to each player (includ-
ing himself). Finally, he places the Condottiere 
token in a region of his choice. This is the site of 
the first battle.
The first game round can now 
begin with its first battle.

Starting a Battle
The player who placed the Condottiere token 
always takes the first turn in the battle, then the 
other players follow in clockwise order. 
On a player’s turn, he must either play a card or 
pass.
Play a Card
If you choose to play a card, place one card faceup 
in front of you, next to any of the other cards you 
have played during this battle. These cards form 
your battle line. A player’s total strength is the 
sum of the strength values of all of the cards in his 
battle line, taking into account any modifications 
caused by special cards (see “Card Explanations” on 
pages 10-15). You may play any type of card as the 
first card in your battle line, even a special card. 
After you play a card, announce the total strength of 
your battle line.
Note that players are never required to play a card 
in a battle. That is, a player can choose pass on 
any of his turns. Even the player who placed the 
Condottiere token can decide to pass his turn at 
the beginning of a battle.
Pass
If you choose to pass, simply announce “I pass.” You 
may not play any more cards until the next battle. 
(If your turn comes around again during this battle, 
you are simply skipped.) However, a player who has 
passed may still win the current battle, if he has the 
strongest battle line at the end of the battle. 
Note that the other players may continue playing 
cards after other players have passed. Even after all 
but one of the players have passed, the player who 
has not passed may continue playing cards, one at a 
time, until he chooses to pass. 

Concluding a Battle 
Players continue taking turns, choosing to either 
play a card or pass, until either all the players have 
passed or one player plays a “Surrender” card. Then 
the battle is concluded, following the steps below. 
1. Compare Strength
All players announce the total strength of their 
battle lines. The player with the strongest battle 
line conquers the region. He then places one of 
his control markers on the conquered region and 
places the Condottiere token in front of him.
Exception: If a player’s battle line contains the 
most Courtesan cards, that player receives the 
Condottiere token instead of the player that actu-
ally won the battle (see page 13).
If two or more players are tied for the most total 
strength, no control marker is placed on the board, 
and the Condottiere token is passed to the player 
to the left of the person who last controlled it. 
Region
City and Region
City

2. Choose the New Battle
The player who has the Condottiere token now 
chooses the region where the next battle will be 
fought. He can choose any region on the game 
board, as long as it does not contain a control 
marker or the Favor of the Pope token. He can 
even choose a region where an unsuccessful (tied) 
battle was just fought. 
3. Discard Battle Lines
All the cards in each player’s battle line are discard-
ed. This is not optional.
4. Discard Cards from Hand
If a player has no Mercenary cards in his hand, he 
may choose to discard all the cards in his hand. 
Discarding is not required, but is instead just an 
option for players with no Mercenary cards. If a 
player has one or more Mercenary cards in his 
hand, he may not discard his hand. 
End of a Round
A round ends when, after the “Discard Cards from 
Hand” step of a battle’s resolution, only one player 
(or no player) has cards remaining in his hand. If 
one player has cards left in his hand, he may keep up 
to two of them, but must discard the rest. Then the 
player controlling the Condottiere token shuffles all 
the remaining cards (including all discards). 
The player with the Condottiere token deals each 
player, including himself, enough cards so that each 
player has 10 cards in his hand. Then, the player 
with the Condottiere token deals each player 1 
additional card for each region the player controls. 
Example: A player with no cards in his hand who con-
trols Parma, Venezia, and Siena would receive 13 cards. 

If a Player Has No Cards
During a battle, when a player has no cards in his 
hand, his only option is to pass. He will not be able 
to participate in battles until next round. The other 
players continue resolving battles without him. If a 
player wins a battle in which he plays his last card, 
he still receives the Condottiere token and chooses 
the site of the next battle, even though he cannot 
participate in that battle. 

Card Explanations
Mercenary Cards
These are distinguished from 
the other cards by their orange 
border and the shape of the 
shield in their upper left-hand 
corner. The numeric values in 
the shield range between 1 and 
10, and indicate the strength 
of the card. Mercenary cards are the most com-
mon type of strength-providing card, although some 
other non-Mercenary cards (the Courtesan and the 
Heroine) also have strength values. 
There are 10 of the 1-strength Mercenary cards 
and 8 each of the 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, 6-, and 10-strength 
Mercenary cards in the deck.
Special Cards
The number in parentheses indicates how many of 
each type of special card there are in the deck. 
Winter (3)
When a Winter card is played, imme-
diately discard all Spring cards in play. 
Winter’s harsh cold and famine 
reduce the effectiveness of soldiers. 
If a Winter card is in play when a 
battle is concluded, all Mercenary 
cards are considered to have a print-
ed strength of 1. This applies to all Mercenary cards 
in every player’s battle line – including the cards of 
the player who played the Winter card. 
Example: A player has two 10-strength Mercenaries, 
one 5-strength Mercenary, and one 4-strength 
Mercenary, for a total strength of 29. However, if a 
Winter card were in play, the player’s total strength 
would be 4. 

The effect of Winter cards is not cumulative; if more 
than one Winter card is in play, the effect is the 
same as if only one Winter card were play. 
Spring (3)
When a Spring card is played, immediately discard 
all Winter cards in play. 
The warmth of spring improves the 
morale and vitality of soldiers. If a 
Spring card is in play when a battle 
is concluded, each player adds 3 
strength to each of his Mercenary 
cards that is among the highest-
strength Mercenaries in play. If two 
or more of Mercenary cards are tied for the high-
est strength, all the tied cards gain the 3 additional 
strength. 
Example: In a two-player game, Scott has one 2-
strength Mercenary and two 5-strength Mercenaries in 
his battle line; Chris has one 1-strength Mercenary, one 
4-strength Mercenary, one Heroine, and a Spring card in 
his battle line. Because Scott’s 5-strength Mercenaries 
are the highest-strength Mercenaries in play, he adds 
3 strength to each of them, for a total strength of 18. 
Chris’s total strength is 15. None of Chris’s cards gain 3 
strength, since none of his cards are the highest-strength 
Mercenary cards in play.
The effect of Spring cards is not cumulative; if more 
than one Spring card is in play, the effect is the same 
as if only one Spring card were play. 

Bishop (6)
When a Bishop card is played, all 
of the highest-strength Mercenary 
card(s) in play are discarded. If two 
or more of cards are tied for the 
highest strength, all of the tied cards 
are discarded. A player’s Mercenary 
cards may still be discarded by a 
Bishop card even if he has already 
passed during that battle. The Bishop card is dis-
carded after it has been played and its effects have 
been resolved.
The player who played the Bishop card then 
receives the Favor of the Pope token, and must 
immediately decide whether to place it on a region 
that does not contain a control marker or leave the 
token off the game board.
The Condottiere token may not be placed on any 
region that has the favor of the Pope. The Favor of 
the Pope token represents the Church intervening 
on the region’s behalf and ensuring that no battles 
are fought there.
Example: In a two-player game, Chris has one 6-
strength, one 3-strength, and two 1-strength Mercenary 
cards in his battle line. Scott has one 6-strength and 
two 1-strength Mercenary cards in his battle line 
and plays a Bishop card. Since the highest-strength 
Mercenary card in play is 6, all 6-strength Mercenary 
cards are discarded from both players’ battle lines (even 
the player that played the Bishop card). Scott then 
receives the Favor of the Pope token, and must decide 
whether to place it on a region that does not have a 
control marker or leave the token off the game board. 

Courtesan (12)
If, during the “Compare Strength” 
step of a battle’s resolution, a 
player’s battle line contains the most 
Courtesan cards, that player receives 
the Condottiere token instead of the 
player that actually won the battle. 
The player who won the battle plac-
es his control marker on the contested region, but 
the player with the most Courtesan cards receives 
the Condottiere token (he chooses where the next 
battle will be fought, and takes the first turn in the 
next battle). 
If two or more players tie for the most Courtesan 
cards, the winner of the battle receives the 
Condottiere token. If two or more players tie 
for the most Courtesan cards and two or more 
players tie for the most total strength, then the 
Condottiere token is passed to the player to the 
left of the person who last controlled it. 
The Courtesan has a strength of 1 but is not con-
sidered a Mercenary card (and is therefore not 
affected by Winter, Spring, Drummer, or Scarecrow 
cards). Note that the Courtesan card has a red 
rather than an orange border and that its strength 
value appears on a silver seal rather than a shield. 
Drummer (6)
A Drummer card adds to the 
morale of the battle line it is played 
in. When a battle is concluded, 
Mercenary cards in the same battle 
line as a Drummer card have their 
printed strength doubled. Playing 
multiple Drummer cards is allowed, 
but has no further effect (that is, the 
value of the Mercenary cards is not tripled, qua-
drupled, etc.). 

If a Winter card is in play during the battle’s reso-
lution, each Mercenary card of the player with a 
Drummer card will be worth 2 strength instead of 
1 strength. 
Example: Carrie has a total of 21 strength from three 
Mercenary cards. If she plays a Drummer card., her 
army would be worth 42 strength, or 6 strenght if a 
Winter card is also in play3.
If a Spring card is in play during the battle’s resolu-
tion, a player with a Drummer card in his battle 
line should double the printed strength of his 
Mercenaries before adding the additional 3 strength 
granted by the Spring card. 
Example: John’s battle line consists of one 2-strength 
Mercenary, one 4-strength Mercenary, and a Drummer. 
A Spring card is also in play, and the highest-strength 
Mercenary card in any player’s battle line is the 4-
strength Mercenary. John’s total strength is 15.
Heroine (3)
The Heroine has a strength of 10, 
but is not considered a Mercenary 
card (and is therefore not affected 
by Winter, Spring, Drummer, or 
Scarecrow cards). Note that the 
Heroine card has a red rather 
than an orange border and that its 
strength value appears on a silver 
seal rather than a shield. 

Scarecrow (16)
Scarecrows are intended to trick 
the enemy. Playing a Scarecrow card 
allows a player to retrieve one of his 
own Mercenary cards from his battle 
line back into his hand. When a play-
er plays a Scarecrow card, he may 
choose not to pick up a Mercenary 
card. A player may not use a Scarecrow card to 
retrieve a special card, a card from another player’s 
battle line, or a card from the discard pile. The 
Scarecrow card is discarded after it has been played 
and its effects have been resolved.
Surrender (3)
When a player plays this card, he 
immediately brings the battle to 
an end, and the region is captured 
by the player who has the stron-
gest battle line at the moment the 
Surrender card is played. 
Deals Between 
Players
At any time during the game, 
players can make deals and dis-
cuss strategies with each other. 
They are allowed to show 
each other their cards, but 
they may not exchange cards. 
Furthermore, players are not 
required to abide by any agree-
ments that they make.

Winning the Game
In a game with 4, 5, or 6 players, the game ends as 
soon as, at the end of the “Compare Strength” step 
of a battle’s resolution, a player controls 5 total 
regions or 3 adjacent regions. In a game with 2 or 3 
players, the victory condition is 6 total regions or 4 
adjacent regions.
If, after a battle is concluded, all the available regions 
on the board have been conquered without the 
above victory conditions being met, the player that 
controls the most regions wins. (This may happen 
when all regions except one have been captured, 
and the uncaptured region has the favor of the 
Pope.) 
Breaking Ties
If two or more players are tied for the most regions, 
a final battle is fought. Only the tied players par-
ticipate in this battle. First, all players discard their 
hands. The player with the Condottiere token shuf-
fles all 110 cards and deals each tied player 10 cards, 
plus 1 card for each region that player controls. 
In this final battle, the player with Condottiere 
token goes first. If the player with the Condottiere 
token is not among the tied players, then the tied 
player closest to the left of the player with the 
Condottiere token goes first. 
The player who wins this final battle wins the game. 
If this final battle also ends in a tie, then the tied 
players share the victory.

Optional Rules
If players wish to have a longer or more detailed 
game of CONDOTTIERE, they can incorporate one 
or more of the following rules.
Draw After Battle
With this variant, each player draws cards at the 
end of each battle instead of drawing cards at the 
end of each round. In fact, with this variant, there 
are no “rounds” in the game, only a series a battles. 
When playing with this variant, at the beginning of 
the game, players start with 7 cards instead of 10 
cards.
During the game, battles are concluded following 
the steps below.
1. Compare Strength (as per the normal rules)
2. Draw Cards
Each player may draw up to 3 cards, but may not 
exceed his hand limit. A player’s hand limit is 10 
cards plus 1 additional card for each region that the 
player controls.
Example: Chris has 9 cards remaining in his hand at 
the end of a battle and controls 1 region. Therefore, 
he has a hand limit of 11 cards. He may only draw 2 
new cards, since drawing 3 cards would exceed his hand 
limit.
If at the end of a battle, no players have cards in 
their hands, then each player draws 10 new cards 
instead of 3 new cards.
3. Choose the New Battle (as per the normal 
rules)
4. Discard Battle Lines (as per the normal rules)
With this variant, players do not have the option to 
discard cards from their hands after each battle. 

Playing for Points
This variant adds more strategy and negotiation, 
since several games are played to determine the 
overall winner.
The players can decide to assign a score (20 or 30 
points, for example) that must be attained over a 
series of games of CONDOTTIERE. Points are 
assigned at the end of each game in the following 
manner:
• One point for each region a player controls.
• If a player wins a game by controlling 3 adjacent 
regions (4 adjacent regions with 2 or 3 players), he 
is awarded a bonus of 5 points in addition to the 
points scored for each region.
Continue playing games until one or more play-
ers reach or exceed the designated score. At that 
point, the player with the most points wins. (If play-
ers are tied for points, fight a final battle as per the 
normal rules.) 
Note: When playing with this option, we suggest 
that you do not also use the “Capturing Regions” 
variant discussed below.
Bigger Kingdoms
This variant increases the game’s playing time and 
makes it more difficult to win by controlling adja-
cent regions.
Increase the number of adjacent regions required to 
win by one. So, for games with 4, 5, or 6 players, 4 
adjacent regions are required for victory (but a play-
er still wins if he controls 5 total regions). In 2- or 
3-player game, 5 adjacent regions or 6 total regions 
are required for victory.

Capturing Regions
This variant allows you to capture regions that are 
already controlled by another player.
The Condottiere token may now be placed on a 
region already controlled by another player, but that 
player (the region’s “defender”) will benefit from 
an important advantage in the course of the battle: 
The region’s defender may pass his turn as many 
times as desired without losing the right to play 
cards later in the battle. However, as soon as he 
has plays his first card, he must follow the normal 
rules (if he subsequently passes, he will no longer 
be able to play cards during that battle). This ability 
allows a region’s defender to play cards even after 
all the other players have passed their turns.
If the battle ends in a tie, the region’s defender 
keeps control of the region and also receives the 
Condottiere token. 
When a player plays a Bishop card, he may either 
place the Favor of the Pope token on any region 
(even a region that contains a control marker) or 
remove the token from the game board.
Hidden Cards
This variant provides a greater element of bluffing.
When a players plays Mercenary, Drummer, Heroine, 
and Courtesan cards, he places them facedown 
into his battle line. The next time that player plays 
a card, he turns up any facedown card in his battle 
line. However, if a player with a facedown card in 
his battle line passes, he may choose not to reveal 
his facedown card. At the end of the battle, before 
players determine the total strength of their battle 
lines, all players must reveal their facedown cards. 
After you play a card, announce the total revealed 
strength of your battle line (do not count hidden/
facedown cards).

Facedown Mercenary cards may not be retrieved 
with Scarecrow cards.
If a Bishop card is played, only faceup Mercenary 
cards are counted. Any hidden Mercenary cards are 
completely ignored by the Bishop.
Example: In a two-player game, John has two 6-
strength Mercenary cards and one facedown 10-
strength Mercenary card in his battle line. Scott has 
one 5-strength and two-1 strength Mercenary cards in 
his battle line and plays a Bishop card. Since the high-
est-strength revealed Mercenary card in play is 6, all 
6-strength Mercenary cards are discarded from both 
players’ battle lines. The hidden 10-strength Mercenary 
card is not affected by the Bishop card.
Credits
Game Design: Dominique Ehrhard
Game Development: John Goodenough
Editing: James Torr
Graphic Design: Scott Nicely
Card Art: Tomas Jedruszek
Cover Art: David Palumbo
Art Direction: John Goodenough
Executive Developer: Christian T. Petersen
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen