Rulebook - 2nd Edition
Awakening the Bear 
1941 - Operation Barbarossa
June 26, 2012
®

Intro & Setup
the side with effects face down. (You may want to put them into 2 
opaque cups.) These markers will be randomly drawn throughout 
the game when units take hits.
7.	Select the action cards specified by the firefight. Shuffle and deal 
each player the specified number of cards.
8.	Some firefights allow hidden units or artillery barrages during setup. 
Write down the map locations of the hidden units and artillery 
targets on a piece of paper. (To simplify this, players can download 
the free “Hidden Movement and Artillery Targeting Maps” from our 
website at www.Academy-Games.com.)
1.1 Unit Types
This game includes units that represent infantry squads of 6-10 men, 
crewed support weapons such as mortars, individual tanks, self-
propelled guns, armored personnel carriers (APCs), trucks, and many 
others. Summaries of all units are listed on page 18.
Unburdened Foot Units refer specifically to foot units 
that have a red movement cost of 2APs or less. These 
include Rifle and SMG units, crewed machine guns and 
light mortars, tank hunter teams, pioneers, etc.
Designer’s Note: Owners of the first edition 
Awakening the Bear game may notice that their foot 
units do not include a blue firepower number. As the 
CoH system evolved, we needed to refine each unit’s 
anti-tank firepower capacity.
Also note the symbol 
 adjacent to the HMG34 
unit name. This symbol is for unit identification 
purposes only and varies from unit to unit. 
Game Overview
Conflict of Heroes is a tactical war game of platoon-sized engagements, with each counter representing a squad of infantry, a crewed gun 
or a vehicle. The engagements are presented as firefights with different objectives. During a firefight players use their army’s units to fight for 
these objectives, which are worth victory points (VPs). The player with the most VPs at the end of the game wins. 
Each firefight consists of several rounds. In each round, players alternate taking turns. During 
his turn, a player may take an action with one of his units, stall or pass. When a unit activates, 
it receives 7 action points (APs), which it spends to take actions. These APs are tracked on 
the green Unit Action Points Track on the player’s Track Sheet. Different actions can cost a 
different number of APs. Ex: For the unit shown below, it costs 2APs to fire or 1AP to move. 
The firepower (FP) of this unit is listed in the lower left corner of the counter. Red FP is 
used to attack unarmored targets with red defense ratings (DRs) and blue FP is used 
to attack armored 
targets with blue 
DRs. A unit’s DRs 
are marked on the 
lower right corner 
of the counter. In 
combat, a player rolls two 
6 sided dice (2D6) and adds the 
result to his firepower to determine his 
attack value (AV). Ex: The Pioneers 
attack an enemy unit with a red defense value and the player rolls a 9 for a red 13AV (4FP + 9). 
The player then compares this AV to the defender’s red defense value (DV), which is a unit’s DR modified by 
the terrain. Ex: If a defending unit with a 12DR is in heavy woods, its DR would be modified by +2 (for the extra 
woods protection) for a total front 14DV (12DR + 2). The attacker hits if his AV is greater than or equal to the 
defender’s DV.
When a player’s unit is hit, he randomly draws a hit marker and 
places it under the unit. The various hit markers affect units 
in different ways. A unit may be instantly killed, suppressed, 
panicked, and so on. 
Play continues with players alternating turns until both pass 
consecutively. At this point the round ends and the next round 
begins. Most games consist of five or fewer rounds. 
Victory points are won during the game by destroying enemy units and taking objectives. Victory conditions 
are listed on each firefight sheet. A player can lose most of his command, but still win the game if he has 
met his victory conditions and has more victory points than his opponent.
Programmed Instruction This rule book is organized to facilitate a programmed instruction approach to learning 
the rules. This means that you will learn one section of the rules at a time and then play one or two firefights to reinforce your understanding of 
those rules. As you read further, you will learn new rules that will build upon what you have already learned. This enables you to begin playing 
the game as quickly as possible. 
Ex: Throughout the rule book, you will see numerous examples of the rules printed in this color (red). 
Designer’s Note: Throughout the rulebook, you will also see numerous designer's notes printed in this color (blue). These notes will give 
you insight into why some of the rules work the way they do as well as discuss some of the history that influenced the game. 
Optional Rules are printed in brown. We recommend that you play a section’s rules at least once before implementing optional rules.
Section 1 - Game Structure & Turn Progression
In this section you will learn how to set up a firefight, play through a game round, and manage command resources to wage war.
AP Cost to Fire
Front DR 
(Defense Rating)
Firepower against 
Soft Targets (Red) or 
Armored Targets (Blue)
Flank DR (Defense 
Rating)
Unit Forward 
Facing
Track Sheet
© 2012 Academy Games
 An activated unit receives 7APs with 
which it can move, fire, and take other 
actions. It pays for these actions by 
counting down the action’s cost on the 
unit AP track.
(Optional Rule 3.01: Roll 3D6 when a 
unit is activated. Sum the high and low 
dice to determine the unit’s APs) 
Unit 
Action Points (APs)
Activated units may augment their unit’s 
action AP cost with CAPs.
All fresh or spent units may take command 
actions which are paid for with CAPs.
A player’s first destroyed unit is placed 
on the starting CAP number specified in 
the firefight; the second destroyed unit 
is placed on the next number down, and 
so on. The number of CAPs a player 
receives each round is reduced by 1 for 
each unit that player lost in the game.
Command
Action Points (CAPs)
Victory Points (VPs)
Game Round
Player Track Sheet
Command
APs
B03
B05
B07
B09
B11
B13
A02
A04
A06
A08
A10
A12
A14
B01
D01
C03
C05
C07
C09
C11
C13
B02
B04
B06
B08
B10
B12
B14
C01
D03
D05
D07
D09
D11
D13
C02
C04
C06
C08
C10
C12
C14
E03
E05
E07
E09
E11
E13
D02
D04
D06
D08
D10
D12
D14
E01
F03
F05
F07
F09
F11
F13
E02
E04
E06
E08
E10
E12
E14
F01
G03
G05
G07
G09
G11
G13
F02
F04
F06
F08
F10
F12
F14
G01
H03
H05
H07
H09
H11
H13
G02
G04
G06
G08
G10
G12
G14
H01
I03
I05
I07
I09
I11
I13
H02
H04
H06
H08
H10
H12
H14
I01
J03
J05
J07
J09
J11
J13
I02
I04
I06
I08
I10
I12
I14
J01
K03
K05
K07
K09
K11
K13
J02
J04
J06
J08
J10
J12
J14
K01
L03
L05
L07
L09
L11
L13
K02
K04
K06
K08
K10
K12
K14
L01
M03
M05
M07
M09
M11
M13
L02
L04
L06
L08
L10
L12
L14
M01
A16
A18
B15
C15
B16
D15
C16
E15
D16
F15
E16
B17
C17
B18
D17
C18
E17
D18
F17
E18
B19
C19
D19
E19
F19
G15
F16
H15
G16
I15
H16
J15
I16
J16
G17
F18
H17
G18
I17
H18
J17
I18
J18
G19
H19
I19
J19
K15
L15
K16
M15
L16
K17
L17
K18
M17
L18
K19
L19
M19
N
4 Rifle ‘41 1-3
Rifle ‘41 1-2
MMG Maxim 
Unit 1
Squad 1-1
Germans Enter Round 1
Soviets
Round 2
Germans Round 3
Control
Firefight 1 - Partisans 
Setup Round 1: Enter anywhere 
along the western edge of the map.
Round 3: Enter map within 2 
hexes of hex A18.
German Forces: 1/2 Rifle Platoon, 161 Inf Division
3 Rifle ‘41 1-1
2x 
SS Tracker Unit
1x Pioneers
(No Flamethrower or 
smoke capabilities.)
LMG34 1-1
2x 
LMG 34 
Setup Round 1: Set up the units 
on the hexes listed next to the unit 
names.
Round 2: Reinforcements 
enter along the road at hex 
G19.
Soviet Forces: Partisans with MMG support
Rifle ‘41 1-1
3x 
(F13,H12, 
J14) 
Rifle ‘41 1-4
2x Rifles
3 Maxim MMG
1x 
MMG 
(C11) 
Round 4
Round 1
Initiative: 
Germans
Control Marker.
Round 2
Soviets: 
Reinforcements.
Control Marker.
Round 3
Germans: 
Reinforcements.
Round 5
Game End
17 Oct, 1941 Comrades, this is a main supply route for the Germans. We will mine the road and ambush the next convoy that comes from the 
south. Take out as many trucks as you can and then melt away to the east. We will rendezvous at camp. Victor - partisan leader. 
General Situation: Remnants of cut-off Soviet infantry units, scattered after the fall of Kiev, have begun partisan activities. A heavily armed 
group of partisans operating near Priluki have been tracked by a group of soldiers from the German 161st Inf. Div. sent to clean up the area. 
Worse for the Soviets, a detached squad of SS trackers are trailing a group of arriving partisan reinforcements from the east. 
Commanders: 2 Initiative: Germans on Round 1. CAP Allocation per Round: German - 6 CAPs Soviet - 7 CAPs 
Action Cards: Play your first game without Action Cards. 
Optional Action Cards After reading section create a draw deck of all action and bonus cards with a number 13 and under. Players receive 2 
cards at the beginning of the game. At the beginning of each round thereafter both commanders receive an additional card. 
Map Setup: Maps 1. Place a control marker, Soviet side up, in hex 1- G09. 
Orders: Your men have been tracking these partisans for the past 
week. Informants say that they are planning a coordinated ambush. 
Take prisoners for interrogation if possible, if not, neutralize them. 
Victory Points: (Mark VPs on your track sheet as you earn them.)
1VP - Immediately score each Soviet unit eliminated.
1VP - Control hex G09 at the end of each round.
Orders: You are to ambush a supply convoy at hex G09. Wipe out 
the Germans and confiscate as many supplies as possible. 
Victory Points: (Mark VPs on your track sheet as you earn them.)
1VP - Immediately score each German unit eliminated. 
1VP - Control hex G09 at the end of each round.
Hex Type
Open or Road
Light Woods
Heavy Woods
Optional Rule (5.0.3)
Play your first game without Cautious Movement.
Normal Move
Cautious Move
1.0 Game Setup
The firefights provided in Conflict of Heroes represent historical 
situations for you and your friends to battle through. For each game of 
Conflict of Heroes, you follow the steps below before playing:
1.	Choose one of the firefights to play. The firefight sheet lists the 
maps setup, units setup, starting command action points (CAPs) 
level for each side, the action cards used, the number of rounds the 
firefight lasts, and the victory conditions.
2.	Each player takes a track sheet and places a yellow victory point 
marker on 0 victory points. The players also mark their starting 
CAPs level with their blue CAPs marker and place their green 
action point (AP) marker on the “0” space.
3.	Place the round marker on the round 1 box of your track sheet and 
sort out the units listed in the firefight.
4.	Configure the maps as described by the firefight.
5.	Decide who will play each force and place the starting forces on the 
map as specified by the firefight. 
 Unit setup locations are designated by 
the map coordinates as follows: Map # - Row 
Letter and Column Number. 
 Ex: 2-J10 would be map #2, hex J10, the 
gray stone church building to the right. 
Units may be set up and move on full 
hexes only. Half hexes are not playable at 
any time in the game.
6.	Sort the vehicle and infantry hit markers into two piles, keeping 
2nd Edition
1st Edition

Setup & Actions
He may take several turns with no unit being activated by either passing 
or taking only command actions, opportunity actions, or card actions. 
Ex: German Turn: In Figure 1, 
Rifle A activates, placing its green 
AP marker on the ‘7’ box of its AP 
track. These 7APs may be spent 
by this Rifle unit only. Rifle A fires 
at the Soviet Rifle C by paying 
its 3AP cost to fire, counting the 
AP track marker down to 4APs. 
The German misses and his turn 
ends. (For this example, all units 
are bad shots and miss on all 
attacks.) 
Soviet Turn: Rifle C activates, 
placing its green AP marker on 
the ‘7’ box of its AP track. Rifle C then pays 4APs to fire back at Rifle 
A by counting his Unit AP Track marker down to 3APs. Rifle C misses 
and his turn ends. 
German Turn: Rifle A has enough APs remaining to fire again, but 
the German player instead decides to take a command action to fire 
with LMG B at Soviet Rifle C. The German player counts his blue CAP 
track marker down 2CAPs, fires and misses. His turn ends.
Soviet Turn: The Soviet player wishes to fire Rifle C at the LMG B. 
But Rifle C must pay 4APs to fire and it has only 3APs remaining. 
The Soviet player counts off the remaining 3APs from his AP track 
plus 1CAP from his CAP track, fires and misses. (CAPs may be used 
to supplement a unit’s APs, as detailed in section 3.2.1.) Since Rifle 
C has 0APs remaining on its AP track and the unit is marked as spent 
by flipping the counter to its spent side. This indicates that Rifle C 
cannot be activated again for the rest of this round, but it may still take 
command actions and card actions. 
German Turn: In Figure 2, Rifle A 
has 4APs left and moves forward 
one hex for 1AP. The German AP 
track is counted down to 3APs. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet could 
activate and fire MMG D, but 
instead wants to see what the 
German does next and passes. 
German Turn: Rifle A fires at 
Rifle C with its last 3APs, misses 
and marks Rifle A as spent. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet player 
activates MMG D, marking his 
AP track to 7APs. He then counts his AP track down 3APs and 
fires at the LMG B. MMG D has 4APs remaining.
German Turn: The German activates LMG B, marking his Unit AP 
Track to 7APs. He then counts his AP track down 2APs and fires at 
MMG D. LMG B has 5APs remaining.
Soviet Turn: The Soviet wishes to see what the German will do. If the 
Soviet passes, he would have to mark MMG D as spent, which he does 
not want to do. Instead, he stalls for 1AP, leaving the MMG 3APs.
German Turn: LMG B fires at MMG D for 2APs, counts his AP track 
down to 3APs, and misses. 
Soviet Turn: MMG D fires back, spending its last 3APs, misses and 
MMG D is marked as spent.
German Turn: LMG B fires at MMG D for 2APs, counting its AP track 
down to 1AP, and misses.
Soviet Turn: Both Soviet units are spent, so neither may be activated 
again. The Soviet player could take a command action (if he has enough 
CAPs to do so) or play an action card, but instead decides to pass.
German Turn: The German player would like to fire with LMG B again 
by paying 1AP and 1CAP, but sees that he has no CAPs left. Even 
though he has 1AP left, he decides to pass and the LMG is spent.
Round over: Both players passed consecutively, so the round ends. 
All spent units are flipped back to their fresh side, the CAPs tracks are 
reset and a new round begins. 
2.3 Round Progression
A round ends when each player passes in consecutive order. Victory 
points (VPs) are awarded, the round marker is advanced, and the 
next round's pre-round sequence is followed (2.0). 
2.4 Game End and Victory Conditions
The firefight ends after the last round is played or when a firefight’s 
victory conditions have been met. The side with the highest VP total is 
declared the winner. In case of a tie, both players are losers.☺
2.0 Pre-Round Sequence
A firefight lasts a set number of rounds. Prior to every round, the 
following steps must be taken in the following order: 
Flip Spent Unit Counters to their fresh sides. (2.3)
Reduce or Remove Smoke Counters (13.0)
Reset CAPs to their starting value minus deducted casualties. (7.4)
Draw Cards specified in the firefight. (8.0)
Target Off-Board Artillery for next round’s resolution. (12.3)
Resolve Off-Board Artillery targeted last round. (12.3)
Prepare Reinforcements specified in the firefight. (5.5)
Roll for Round Initiative (2.1)
2.1 Roll for Round Initiative
At the beginning of each round, the players each roll 2D6 for initiative. 
The roll may be modified by CAPs (3.2.4). In case of a tie, re-roll. The 
player with the highest result wins initiative and takes the first turn. 
2.2 Taking Turns 
A round consists of a series of alternating player turns. 
During a player’s turn, he may take one action, stall or 
pass. An action is defined as any single thing a unit does 
such as moving one hex, firing once, rallying, etc. Each 
action costs a certain number of action points (APs). 
A unit is either fresh, active or spent. A unit 
is fresh if it has not spent any APs or taken an 
opportunity action. A unit is active when a player 
activates it with 7APs. A unit is spent after it has been 
activated and has spent all of its 7APs or if it has taken 
an opportunity action. A unit is marked as spent by 
flipping its counter to the side with the red bar.
During each turn, a player may take one of the 
following four actions:
1.	Unit (AP) Action: Choose any fresh unit and activate it by 
advancing the marker to 7APs on the green Unit AP Track. This 
activated unit may take an action by spending these action 
points (APs). Different actions can cost a different number of 
APs. If the activated unit has APs remaining after taking an action, 
it may take additional actions by spending more of its APs in later 
turns within the same round (3.0). The unit is marked as spent 
if it has spent all of its APs or if the player wishes to activate a 
different fresh unit with 7APs. A player may have only one unit 
activated at a time (exception - Shared Activations 9.0). 
2.	Opportunity Action: Take any one action with any fresh unit that is 
not activated. Mark the unit as spent after it has taken the one action. 
3.	Command (CAP) Action: Take one action with any fresh, activated 
or spent unit by spending only command action points (CAPs). The 
unit’s spent or fresh status is not changed by a command action.
4.	Card Action: Play an appropriate card on any fresh, activated or 
spent unit. A unit’s spent or fresh status is not changed by a card 
action.
Stall: A player may want to delay making a decision by stalling. 
Stalling counts as an action that costs either 1AP for the currently 
activated unit or 1CAP. 
Pass: A player may wish to take no action and pass. A pass costs 
no APs or CAPs, but if the passing player has an activated unit with 
unspent APs, he must flip the unit to its spent side and lose any of 
its unused APs. A player who passed may take more actions during 
future turns. However, if both players pass consecutively, the round 
is immediately over and no further actions may be taken until the 
next round. Example: A player may wish to stall instead of passing 
because his opponent could end the round by also passing. 
Designer’s Note: APs and CAPs are employed in the game to 
account for the efforts, planning, and time it takes to carry out specific 
actions. More involved actions cost more APs and/or CAPs.
All players may have an activated unit at the same time. 
Players alternate taking turns by taking an activated unit’s AP actions, 
opportunity actions, command actions, card actions, stalling or passing. 
Designer’s Note: This is a change from the original AtB rules that 
allowed only one player at a time to have an activated unit.
An activated unit may intersperse its Unit AP action turns 
with command action (3.2) or card action (8.0) turns. Taking 
these other action turns does not spend the activated unit, which may 
continue to take its AP actions in future turns. 
Other units may take opportunity action, command action 
and card action turns between an activated unit’s AP action 
turns. These other actions do not spend the activated unit, which 
may continue to take its AP actions in future turns.
A player does not have to have an activated unit at all times. 
Fresh Unit
Spent Unit
Figure 1
Figure 2

Actions
5, 4 and 3. The unit receives 8APs (5+3) for its activation.
Optional Rule - Additional Fog of War: For added suspense, 
players may decide to roll the 3D6 under a cup, keeping the results 
secret. Instead of setting the track sheet to the amount of APs 
received, the player tracks how many APs have been spent. Once the 
unit is spent, the player must show his opponent the dice result.
Ex: The player rolled for 8APs and fires with the active unit for 
3APs. He counts his AP track marker up from 0 to 3APs. On a future 
turn, after the unit has spent all of its 8APs or the player decides to 
activate a different unit, the player reveals his dice. 
3.1 Opportunity Actions
A player can take an opportunity action with a fresh unit only. An 
activated or spent unit may NOT take an opportunity action. Any one 
action costing any number of APs, such as firing once, moving one 
hex, rallying, etc., may be taken as an opportunity action. This action 
does not cost the player APs or CAPs, but the unit is marked as spent 
after completing the action. 
Ex: Figure 3. German Turn: The German player activates Rifle A, 
moves it forward for 1AP, and counts the AP marker down to 6APs on 
his green Unit AP Track. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet activates Rifle C, fires at Rifle A for 4APs, 
counts his green AP track marker down to 3APs, and misses. 
German Turn: The German player wants to fire with the fresh HMG 
B at Rifle C, but activating HMG B to make the attack would cause 
Rifle A to be marked as spent (thus losing its remaining 6APs). HMG 
B instead opportunity fires at Rifle C. The opportunity fire marks the 
HMG as spent and it can no longer be activated this round. 	
 
Designer’s Note: Taking an opportunity action with a fresh unit is 
often less efficient than waiting to activate the unit later in the round. 
But sometimes a player needs to immediately react to a situation with a 
unit, without marking the activated unit as spent or using CAPs or cards. 
3.2 Command Action Points (CAPs)
An army’s available command resources are represented by the 
CAPs marker on the blue command track on the track sheet. Each 
firefight specifies the starting number of CAPs for each player. These 
CAPs are shared by all of a player’s units during the entire round and 
are not replenished until the beginning of the next round. CAPs left 
over from one round are not carried over into the next round. 
CAPs may be spent to:
-Supplement an activated unit’s APs (3.2.1).
-Execute a command (CAP) action (3.2.2).
-Modify any dice roll (3.2.3), stall (2.2), or play a card (8.1).
Designer’s Note: The strength, functionality, and effectiveness of a 
fighting force relies on its logistics and leadership structure. Leaders, 
from sergeants on up, coordinate attacks, keep the morale high in the 
company, direct fire groups, and much more. The logistical structure 
is responsible for supplying food and ammo to the front line troops, 
evacuating wounded soldiers, communicating with the HQ command, 
etc. If a position had to be held, extra ammunition, spare parts, and 
men were sent to reinforce the defenders. Command and logistical 
availability are abstracted in the game through the use of CAPs.
3.2.1 Supplement an Activated Unit’s APs
A player may use CAPs to supplement an activated unit’s APs when 
spending for actions on a one-for-one basis. A player may spend as 
many of his CAPs as desired this way.
Ex: Figure 4. Continuing the previous example, it is the Soviet 
2.5 Victory Points (VPs)
Typically victory points are earned during the game by destroying 
opposing units, controlling victory hexes, and by achieving objectives 
during scoring rounds.
2.5.1 Scoring Destroyed Units
When an opposing unit is destroyed, the VP value for that unit is 
immediately awarded to a player and recorded on his yellow VPs 
track. If a player destroys his own unit (yes, it can happen), his 
opponent still gets the VP associated with its destruction.
2.5.2 Victory Hex Control
The victory hex(es) specified in a firefight are marked 
at the beginning of a game with Control Markers, which 
are placed with the controlling side’s symbol face up. 
During the course of the game, victory hex control is 
maintained by one side until an opposing ground unit 
enters and solely occupies the hex, even if the unit 
simply passes through the hex. If an opposing unit enters an enemy 
occupied victory hex, control is retained by the enemy until the 
opposing side becomes the sole occupier of the victory hex.
3.0 Unit (AP) Actions
A player may activate a unit by choosing any fresh unit on the map 
and advancing the AP marker on the green Unit AP Track of the Track 
Sheet to 7APs. Activating a unit is not an action.
The activated unit takes one AP action at a time 
by spending the APs on the green Unit AP Track. As 
actions are taken, the AP track is counted down to 
show the unit’s remaining APs. Ex: The Soviet Rifle ‘41 
spends 4APs to fire or 1AP to move one hex. 
Designer’s Note: The AP cost for a unit to fire takes many factors 
into account and does not represent just one shot, but the total 
firepower output of the unit during a two to three minute time frame. 
This involves target acquisition time, ammo replenishment, orders 
being screamed at squad members, and so on.
When an activated unit has spent all of its APs by 
taking AP actions or if the player no longer wishes to 
take further AP actions with the unit, he marks the unit 
as spent. Marking a unit as spent is not an action and 
any remaining unspent APs are lost.
A player may intersperse an activated unit’s 
AP actions with command actions (3.2.2) and card actions (8.0). 
Ex: The Soviet player activates a Rifle unit, marks its AP track 
to 7APs, fires it once spending 4APs, and then counts the AP marker 
down to 3APs. On the Soviet player’s next turn he takes a card action 
to move the unit two hexes. Next turn he stalls for 1AP. He has 2APs 
left on his AP track. Next turn he takes a command action and moves 
the Rifle unit forward 1 hex for 1CAP. Next turn he fires for 2APs 
supplemented by 2CAPs (3.2.1). The Rifle unit is out of APs at this 
point and is marked as spent. 
A player may intersperse an activated unit’s AP actions with 
opportunity, command, and card actions taken by other units. 
Ex: The Soviet player activates a Rifle unit, marks its AP track 
to 7APs, fires once spending 4APs and counts the AP marker down 
to 3APs. Next turn the Soviet takes a command action, moving a spent 
Maxim MMG one hex for 2CAPs. Next turn he takes a card action with 
Card #4 to attempt to rally a tank that was previously hit. Next turn he 
returns to the activated Rifle unit and fires for 3APs and 1CAP. The 
Rifle unit is out of APs and is spent.
At the beginning of his turn, a player may mark an active unit as 
spent in order to immediately activate and use a different unit. The 
green Unit AP Track is again set to 7APs and this new unit may now 
take an action by spending these APs. In all cases, no more than 
one unit may be activated by a player at a time (exception - Shared 
Activations 9.0). 
Ex: The Russian makes an unexpected move to which the 
German player wants to react by firing his HMG unit. However, a 
German Rifle is currently activated with 4APs left. The German 
immediately marks the Rifle as spent, losing its remaining 4APs. 
He then activates the HMG, sets the green Unit AP Track marker 
to 7APs, and takes an AP action with the HMG, counting down the 
action cost on the AP track. The process of marking an activated unit 
spent and activating a new unit must be done at the beginning of a 
player’s turn and is not an action.
3.0.1 Variable AP Allocation (Optional Rule)
At the beginning of a game, players may decide on the following option. 
Instead of units automatically receiving 7APs when activated, players 
roll three six sided dice (3D6) and sum the high and low dice rolls to 
determine how many APs their units receive. Ex: 3D6 are rolled for a 
Figure 3
Figure 4

player’s turn and he wants to fire with Rifle C again. It costs Rifle C 
4APs to fire, but it only has 3APs left on its Unit AP Track. The Soviet 
player has 5CAPs at his disposal for the round, which allows him to 
fire Rifle C again by paying its remaining 3APs plus 1CAP. The CAPs 
marker is counted down one space on the blue command track to 
show 4CAPs remaining for the round. Rifle C has spent all of its Unit 
APs and is marked as spent.
3.2.2 Command (CAP) Actions 
Command actions are completely paid for with CAPs. CAP actions 
can be taken by an activated, fresh or spent unit. Activated or fresh 
units that take a command action are not marked as spent.
Ex: Figure 5 continuing the previous example. 
German Turn: The German player has 3CAPs left on his blue CAP 
track. He decides to use a CAP action to fire his spent HMG B at 
Rifle C for 2CAPs and misses. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet activates Rifle D setting his green Unit AP 
Track to 7APs. Rifle D moves forward one hex for 1AP and counts 
down his AP track to 6APs. 
German Turn: Rifle A (which is still the German activated unit) fires at 
Rifle D for 3APs, counts its green AP track to 3APs, and misses.
Soviet Turn: Rifle D has 6APs remaining. It fires at Rifle A, counts its 
green AP track to 2APs and misses. 
German Turn: Rifle A has 3APs remaining. It fires at Soviet Rifle D, 
counts its green AP track to 0 and misses. Rifle A is marked as spent. 
Soviet Turn: Rifle D has 2APs left, but the Soviet player decides to 
pass and marks the unit as spent. 
German Turn: All units are spent. The German passes and the round 
ends. Instead of passing, both players could have continued to take 
command actions or card actions (8.0). 
3.2.3 Modify Any Dice Roll with CAPs
A player may spend up to 2CAPs to negatively or positively modify 
any of his dice rolls on a one-for-one basis. He may never modify an 
opponent’s dice roll. A player must state all CAP dice roll modifications 
before rolling. The CAPs spent are valid for only one dice roll.
Ex: The Soviet player needs to roll ≥ 9 to hit a unit. Before rolling, 
he declares that he will spend 2CAPs to positively modify his roll. He 
now only needs to roll ≥ 7 to hit (7 + 2CAPs = 9).
3.2.4 New Round Initiative Dice Roll
Players may spend up to 2CAPs to modify new round initiative rolls 
(2.1). The player with the most CAPs announces how many he will 
spend to modify his initiative dice roll. (In case of ties, the Soviet 
player decides first.) Then his opponent announces how many CAPs 
he will spend. Each player may only announce once what they will 
spend. Both players deduct the stated CAPs (up to two maximum), 
then roll, adding the modifications to the dice total. If tied, the players 
re-roll. Players may spend additional CAPs to modify the new dice rolls.
Ex: At the beginning of a new round, the German player has the 
most CAPs and decides to use 2 of his 7 available CAPs to modify his 
roll. The Soviet player chooses to save his CAPs and uses none. The 
German player rolls a 6 (4 dice roll + 2 CAP modifier). His opponent 
rolls a 7. The Soviet player goes first, but the German player still has 
only 5CAPs left for the rest of the round for all of his units to draw from.
3.2.5 Equalizing Play
If a game is out of balance because the opponents have different 
levels of experience, you can equalize the firefight by increasing the 
disadvantaged player’s starting CAPs level by one or two points. 
4.0 Terrain
The battle is played on a map consisting of hexes representing 
40-50 meters of ground. On these hexes you will see various types 
of terrain. Each hex has a dot in the middle. Whatever terrain type 
surrounds the dot dictates the entire hex’s terrain type. 
Ex: If a center dot touches any part of a building, the entire hex 
is considered developed and thus blocks LOS - even if portions of the 
developed hex are open and LOS could conceivably be drawn through it. 
Designer’s Note: A building pictured in a hex means that the hex 
is developed and does not represent just one individual building.
Open Terrain: 
Yards and rolling fields with intermittent clumps of brush 
and individual trees. Open terrain includes any hex that is 
not a building, plowed field, woods, or water hex. 
Example hexes: 1-B07, 2-C10, 2-F07, 2-H08, 2-I05, 
3-F14, 4-F08, 4-H12, 5-C08, 5-J06, 5-K11, 5-K17. 
Road: 
Any prepared surface intended for vehicles. These include 
dirt and paved roads. Roads do not change the terrain 
type of the hex such as building or woods. 
Example hexes: 1-G08, 1-D13, 2-I08, 4-G11, 5-D10, 
5-H07.
Walls: 
Constructed stone walls that protect units which are 
directly behind them. They follow a hex’s edge and do 
not change its terrain type. The hex pictured is an open 
terrain hex with walls along its northern edges. 
Example hexes: 2-G05, 2-H04, 4-G12. The following are 
NOT walled hexes: 2-J05, 5-A07, 5-D03, 5-K11. 
Building (Wood): 
Consist of light cover wooden buildings and sheds. All are 
yellow/brown toned.
Example hexes: 2-F08, 2-I09, 4-F10, 5-F02, 5-G04, 5-I04, 
5-L03, 5-K15.
Building (Stone): 
Sturdier structures such as barns & farms built of stone/
wood mixes or bricks. All are grey toned.
Example hexes: 2-J10, 5-E03, 5-B07, 5-C16, 5-I05, 
5-K07, 5-J11. 
Hills: 
Open terrain at an increased level. Level one hills (L1) are 
designated with a 
 behind the hex number. L2 hills have 
two 
 
 behind their hex numbers. Each level represents 
a 10-15 meter rise in elevation. Example hexes: 3-E09, 
3-G11, 3-E13, 3-K07, 4-D05, 4-D07, 4-B12. 
Hills (Steep): 
Open terrain that increases two or more levels over a 
single hexside.
Example hexes: 3-F14, 3-G15, 3-K11. 
Plowed and/or Muddy Fields: 
Fresh tilled or muddy fields that make tracked vehicle 
movement difficult. Wheeled vehicles are not allowed.
Example hexes: 2-G02, 2-J03, 4-C17, 4-G13, 4-E15. 
The following are NOT plowed field hexes because the 
center dots are in open terrain: 2-K04, 4-J11, 4-F15.
Woods (Light): 
Overgrown areas with light tree and brush cover. 
Example hexes: 1-E03, 1-F11, 2-L03, 2-L07, 3-E09, 
3-K08, 4-H08, 4-J17, 5-B15. 
The following are NOT light woods: 5-F10, 5-K17. 
Woods (Heavy): 
Large, well-developed trees, with undergrowth.
Example hexes: 1-E12, 2-K07, 3-E08, 4-B12, 4-G07, 
5-A04, 5-E12, 5-G14. 
Water (Rivers and Lakes): 
Bodies of water with a depth of over 1 meter and are 
passable only by unburdened foot units (1.1) and boats. 
Units may not fire while in water hexes. 
Example hexes: 5-B11, 5-C13.
Designer’s Note: In future games we introduce boats 
and amphibious vehicles that may also pass over water.
Terrain may give your units cover, conceal enemy units, block line of 
sight, and/or affect movement. The Foot Unit Movement and Terrain 
Table details how certain terrain types affect a foot unit’s movements, 
defensive modifiers (DMs), and line of sight (LOS) restrictions. 
Figure 5

Moving & LOS
5.0 Foot Unit Movement
Foot units are units that have a red movement cost number in the 
top right corner of the counter. To move a foot unit into a hex, the unit 
must spend the movement cost number in APs. Some terrain types 
cost more to move into, and these additional costs are listed on the 
movement and terrain table. These costs are added to the unit’s 
movement cost and are cumulative. 
Ex: A Soviet Maxim MMG unit with a 2AP movement 
cost would pay 3APs to move into a heavy woods hex 
(2APs unit movement cost + 1AP for heavy woods 
terrain cost). 
 Each foot unit’s movement into a new hex is 
considered a separate action. There are no stacking 
limits. Units may move into and through hexes occupied by both 
friendly and enemy units. (Of course, an enemy unit may engage you 
in close combat if you move into its hex!)
5.0.1 Roads 
Roads negate hex restrictions and movement costs of terrain that 
covers the hex. Units must follow the roads from hex to hex to gain 
the road movement advantage. Bridges function as roads over water. 
Roads do not affect the DM of the hex. 
5.0.2 Walls 
A unit receives +1DM for all incoming fire, from all levels, if the fire 
crosses a wall that is in or bordering the target unit's hex. Other 
terrain modifiers still apply. Walls do not offer cover against mortar 
and artillery fire. 
Crossing a wall hex side costs foot and tracked units +1AP. 
Wheeled units may not cross wall hex sides. 
Walls acts as covering terrain for hidden units, if LOS from 
enemy units crosses a wall in or bordering a hidden unit's hex.
5.0.3 Foot Unit Cautious Movement (Optional Rule)
All foot units moving into a ‘No Cover Terrain’ hex, as listed on the 
Movement & Terrain Table above, are penalized -1DM. This penalty 
is only applied if an opponent fires at the unit immediately in the 
following turn. Transported foot units (17.1) are not penalized.
The movement penalty can be negated by moving cautiously. 
Foot units move cautiously by adding +1AP to the regular movement 
cost listed on the movement table.
Designer’s Note: A player must weigh the extra APs paid for 
cautious movement against the benefits of a higher DM when using 
these optional rules. Beginners may wish to gain some experience 
playing CoH before including this optional rule.
5.1 Facing 
All units have a forward facing represented on their 
counters by a white arrow on a green or red field. A 
green field indicates a counter that can move and/or 
pivot, a red field indicates a counter that is stationary 
and may not move and/or pivot (Bunkers 18.1.2). 
At all times, a unit’s facing arrow must point to a 
hex side (as opposed to the corner of a hex). Units may move forward 
into any one of their 3 front hexes (see figure 6). Units may change 
their facing to any hex side at no AP 
cost after they move into a new hex and 
before the opposing player’s turn. 
Flank hexes represent hexes to the 
rear of and outside of a unit's field of focus. 
5.2 Backwards Movement 
A unit may move backwards into any of 
its 3 flank hexes, but must pay a +1AP 
backward movement penalty in addition 
to all other movement costs (5.0). A unit 
moving backwards into a new hex may 
change its facing at no additional AP cost. 
Moving backwards is considered a cautious move (5.0.3). 
Designer’s Note: Facing is critical for a unit. Facing involves a 
unit’s “focus” or attention as much as taking up positions to deal with 
that focus. While deployed behind a wall, against an embankment, 
etc., a unit is very vulnerable to fire coming from its flank. Not only is 
the unit often more exposed, but flank attacks can be psychologically 
devastating. “Where did the enemy come from? Are we surrounded? 
Can we get away?” The natural instinct is often to either just run away 
or to hunker down. A unit’s experience and leadership play a vital role 
in assessing the new threat and deciding how to react to it. 
5.3 Pivoting
If a unit does not wish to move into a new hex, but wants to change 
its facing, it may pivot as an action for a cost of 1AP or 1CAP. The unit 
may change its facing to any hex side. 
5.4 Enemy Occupied Hexes 
Units may move into and through hexes occupied by both friendly 
and enemy units. If friendly and enemy units occupy the same hex 
at the beginning of a turn, a player may initiate close combat (7.7.3). 
If vehicles move through an enemy occupied hex without stopping 
(14.1), they cannot be engaged in close combat.
5.5 Unit Reinforcements
When a firefight calls for reinforcements these units may come into 
the game on that round or later rounds. If the reinforcements enter on 
a later round, they must still enter on the same hex(s) as specified by 
the firefight. 
Units move onto full hexes when entering a firefight. Half hexes 
are ignored. The move can be made with a Unit AP, opportunity, 
command or card action. 
If an enemy unit occupies an entry hex, the reinforcements may 
shift their hex of entry by up to 2 hexes. 
Multiple units may enter the map simultaneously using a group 
move (9.1.1) or while being transported (17.0).
5.6 Exiting the Game 
Units may never exit a map, unless called for in the setup rules of an 
individual firefight. 
6.0 Line of Sight (LOS)
Units have to see each other in order to fire at each other. Hexes 
that block LOS are listed on the Movement & Terrain Table in section 
5.0. If a line drawn from the center dot of the attacking hex to the 
center dot of the target hex is free of any blocking terrain, LOS is 
established. Units can see into a hex that blocks LOS, but not through 
it. So LOS is blocked if any part of the LOS crosses any part of a 
blocking hex. All LOS rules apply in both directions. So if unit A can 
see unit B, then B can see A.
 Ex: Figure 7. The HMG in hex A can see into light woods hex B, 
but not through it to hexes C or D.
If LOS passes exactly along the edge of two hexes, it is always 
affected by the hex with the least restrictive LOS. 
Ex: Figure 7. The HMG in hex A can see into hex E, because the 
 
 
o
n
t 
x
s
Figure 6
 
 
l
a
n
k
 
x
s
Figure 7
Foot Unit Movement and Terrain Table
Additional AP 
Cost to Move 
into a Hex
Defensive 
Modifier (DM)
Hex 
Blocks 
LOS?
Cover 
Terrain?
Open Terrain / Road
Buildings-Stone
Buildings-Wood
Plowed Field
Wall
Water
+4 AP
Woods - Heavy
Woods - Light
Move Backwards
Move Uphill
Movement AP Costs & Defensive Modifiers are cumulative.
Optional Cautious Movement Rule (5.0.3)
Unit is Moving Normally
Unit is Moving Cautiously

Combat & Hits
7.4 Destroyed Units and CAP Track Adjustments
A unit is immediately destroyed when it takes a critical hit (7.0) or a 
unit with a hit marker takes a second hit. 
Destroyed units (except for Trucks & Wagons 16.0) are removed 
from the game and are placed on its commanding player’s CAPs track. 
The first destroyed unit is placed on the starting CAP number specified 
in the firefight, the second destroyed unit on the next number lower, 
and so on. At the beginning of each round, the CAPs track marker is 
reset to its beginning value minus 1 for each of that side's lost units. 
Ex: A player starts a firefight with 9CAPs and loses 2 units on 
round one. The first unit is placed on the “9” space, the second on the 
“8” space. He would start round two with only 7CAPs at his disposal. 
The 7CAPs would decrease in future rounds if he lost more units.
If the CAP track marker is on the space where a destroyed unit 
must go, the CAP level is immediately reduced by one and the player 
loses the use of this CAP. 
Ex: In the example above, the player had 8CAPs left when he 
lost his second unit. The unit is placed on the “8” space and the CAP 
tracking marker is moved to the “7” space. 
Designer’s Note: As units are destroyed, the loss of front line 
sergeants, 2nd lieutenants, and other officers affect a force’s combat 
and command structure effectiveness.
7.5 Hits
When an un-hit unit takes a hit, its commanding player draws a hit 
marker and without revealing it to his opponent, places it face down 
under the hit unit. Pull hits against foot units from the Foot Hit Marker 
pile and pull hits against vehicles from the Vehicle Hit Marker pile.
A unit’s stats and abilities are modified by the corresponding values 
printed on the hit marker. If no value appears in a corner of a hit 
marker, there is no affect on the corresponding stat of the hit unit. 
Ex: A Soviet Rifle pulls a Suppressed 
hit marker. The unit’s stats are modified as 
follows:
- The cost to fire increases from 4 to 5. 
- The red firepower decreases from 3 to 1 
and the blue FP from 0 to -2. 
- Movement and defense values are not affected, since these areas 
on the hit marker are blank.
- The unit may rally and remove the hit marker on a 2D6 roll of 7 or 
higher.
 Some markers have a 
 symbol, which negates a unit’s ability. 
Ex: A pinned unit cannot move or pivot, but none of its other 
stats are affected. Ex: A stunned unit cannot do anything except rally. 
LOS follows the hex edge between the woods D and the open hex. 
The LOS is not blocked, because the open hex LOS applies.
Players may check for LOS before they commit to firing.
Units do not block LOS or firing. 
6.1 Arc of Fire (AoF)
The front 3 hexes extending 
outward from a unit’s facing 
arrow represent the unit’s arc 
of fire. Units may only shoot at 
targets in their arc of fire.
Ex: Figure 9. The German 
Rifle unit moves into hex A, 
which is in its front arc and is 
considered a forward movement. The 
Soviet passes. The German moves to 
hex B and again the Soviet passes. 
The German now moves to hex C 
and changes its facing for free. The 
Soviet Rifle cannot fire at the German, 
because the German is now outside 
of its arc of fire. The German is also 
facing the Soviet’s flank. The Soviet 
could pivot to face the German as an 
action for 1AP, but then would have to 
wait another turn in order to fire.
7.0 Combat Resolution
Combat involves one unit firing its weapons at another unit. 
The attacking unit must have the target in its arc of fire, LOS, and 
range (7.7). 
 The black number in the top left corner of the counter shows 
the number of APs the unit must spend to attack. Each attack is 
considered a separate action.
When attacking, compare the attacker’s attack value (AV) with 
the defender’s defense value (DV) of the same color. 
- If the AV is equal to or greater than the DV, the defender takes 
one hit. 
- Critical Hit. If the AV is greater than the DV by 4 or more, the 
defender is immediately destroyed. 
A unit may be attacked an unlimited number of times in a round.
7.1 Firepower (FP) and Defense Rating (DR)
All units have a blue and a red fire power (FP) value located in the 
lower left corner of the counter. The red value reflects a unit’s bullets 
and high-explosive firepower. The blue value reflects a unit’s armor-
piercing firepower. 
All units also have either a red or blue defense rating (DR) 
located in the lower right corner of the counter. A red DR indicates 
that the unit is a soft or disbursed target, such as men. A blue DR 
means that the unit is armored, such as a tank. 
When a unit fires at an enemy unit, it fires using the same FP 
color as the target’s DR color. 
7.2 Attack Value (AV)
AV is calculated by adding the attacking unit’s fire power (FP) to a 
2D6 dice roll. Remember, attack dice rolls can be modified by adding 
up to 2CAPs. 
AV = Unit FP + 2D6 + CAP dice roll modifiers
Ex: Figure 9. The German Rifle with a red 2FP is firing at the 
Soviet Rifle. The player rolls a 9 and scores an 11AV (2FP + 9 dice roll).
Units may attack even if they have a 0 or negative FP.
7.3 Defense Value (DV)
DV is calculated by adding 
either a unit’s front or flank 
defense rating (DR) to 
the hex’s terrain DMs. Fire 
originating from outside of a 
unit’s arc of fire is considered 
a flank attack and is resolved 
against the unit’s weaker 
flank DR. The unit’s flank DR 
is printed above the unit’s 
front DR on the counter. 
DV = DR + terrain DM.
Ex: Figure 10. The yellow lines represent flank shots because 
the fire originates from outside of the unit’s arc of fire. These flank 
shots would be resolved against the unit’s 11 flank DR.
 Defenders may never add CAP modifiers to their unit’s DV.
Figure 9
c
 
o
f
 
i
Figure 8
Flank
Fire
Figure 10
Front 
Fire
Foot Unit Hit Markers
Stunned (x2): 
•	Unit cannot take 
any action other 
than rally. 
Unnerved (x2): 
•	No stats are 
affected.
KIA (x1): 
•	The unit is killed 
on the first hit. 
Immediately 
remove it from 
the map.
Panicked (x2): 
•	Unit cannot fire. 
•	Flank DR increases.
•	Front DR 
decreases. 
Pinned (x5): 
•	Unit cannot move 
or pivot. 
Suppressed(x5): 
•	Costs +1AP to fire. 
•	FP decreases by 2.
Cowering (x2): 
•	Cost +2AP to fire.
•	+1AP per hex to 
move or pivot.
•	Range drops to 1.
•	DR increases.
Berserk (x1): 
•	Costs -1AP to fire.
•	FP increases by 1.
•	Range drops to 1.
•	DR increases.
Back of Foot 
Hit Counters 
•	All foot hit counters 
shown have the 
same back art.
 = The ability is lost. 
A black symbol affects all colored 
stats.
A blue or red symbol affects only 
the same colored stat.

Rally & Range
However, its defense ratings are not affected.
A pinned unit may not move under its own power (including 
loading or unloading from a vehicle), but may be transported if 
already loaded.
A player only needs to reveal a Hit Marker to his opponent 
when the hit unit’s affected stats are used in play. In such a case, 
he shows the marker to his opponent and then places the marker 
back under the hit unit.
Ex: A suppressed unit wishes to fire. Its FP is affected by the hit 
marker, so the suppressed hit marker must be shown to the opponent.
Ex: A panicked unit is fired upon. The defender must reveal the 
panic hit marker to the attacker, regardless of the outcome of the 
attacker’s dice roll. 
The “killed” hit marker is immediately revealed when pulled 
and the affected unit is removed from the map. Hit markers are also 
revealed when a unit is destroyed or after it rallies. 
Designer’s Note: Taking a hit does not necessarily mean that 
men are killed. In battle, units often hit the dirt when fired at and could 
not fire back. Other times they would panic, forget about firing, and 
run away. These various effects are simulated through the hit markers 
without adding pages of complicated rules! 
7.5.1 Stacked Units and Combat
There are no stacking limits. When a hex with more than one unit 
is attacked, the attack is resolved simultaneously against all of the 
targeted units with separate dice rolls. The more units in a hex, the 
better the chances are that an attacker will hit one of them. This does 
not cost the attacker any extra resources and is considered to be one 
action. However, each dice roll CAP modifier (3.2.3) affects only 
one target in a multi-target hex. The attacker can spend CAPs on 
each dice roll separately if he so wishes. An opponent may react only 
after all attacks have been resolved against all stacked units in the 
target hex.
Ex: Figure 11. The Soviet MMG A fires at LMG 
B and Rifle C for 3APs. Both defenders have a 
12DV. The MMG resolves fire against LMG B first. 
The Soviet player decides to add 2CAPs to modify 
his dice roll and scores a 14AV (3FP + 9 dice roll 
+ 2CAPs) for a hit. Then the MMG resolves fire 
against Rifle C, this time without spending any 
CAPs to modify its dice roll. The CAPs spent on the 
first dice roll do not count for this second roll. The 
MMG misses and the Soviet ends his turn.
Multiple Target Types - A unit firing at a hex that 
contains units with different DR colors, rolls against 
each using its corresponding colored FP. 
 Designer’s Note: The stacking rules were developed to simulate 
target density. Having two tanks nicely lined up for an anti-tank gun is a 
fire fest, whereas if they were spaced out the gun would have to reorient 
itself between shots. Therefore, the more targets in a hex, the easier 
they are to fire at and hit. In WWII, units were trained to spread out 
and not bunch up for these reasons. Concentrated forces were easier 
to manage, but could be devastated by mortar, artillery, and MG fire.
7.6 Rally 
Hit units can try to remove a hit marker by successfully rallying. A 
successful rally indicates that the soldiers have calmed and their 
leaders have inspired them to fight. 
The cost to attempt a rally action is 5APs.
After paying 5APs, the player rolls 2D6. The rally 
attempt is successful if the 2D6 roll is greater than or 
equal to (≥) the rally number marked on the top center 
of the hit marker. The hit marker is removed from the 
successfully rallied unit, shown to the opponent, and 
then is placed back into the hit marker pile. If a rally 
attempt fails, nothing happens and the hit marker remains in place. 
Units may also attempt to rally with an opportunity, command, 
or card action. A unit can attempt multiple rallies as long as it has 
enough APs, CAPs, and/or action cards to do so. Each rallying 
attempt is considered a separate action.
Some vehicle hit markers are marked as ‘No Rally’ and cannot 
be rallied for the remainder of the game. 
Hit markers are returned to the hit marker pile after a unit 
successfully rallies or is destroyed.
Units in a hex with enemy units cannot rally.
7.6.1 Rally Dice Roll Modifiers
Units in cover terrain add a +1 rally dice roll modifier to their rally 
attempt. The Movement and Terrain Table on Page 5 and on the 
Summary Sheet lists which terrains act as cover. 
 Units stacked with other friendly un-hit units receive an additional 
+1 rally dice roll modifier per friendly un-hit unit in the same hex.
Rally dice rolls may be modified with CAPs.
7.7 Range
A unit’s range represents the number of hexes away the unit may fire into 
and is designated on the bottom center of the counter inside the country 
symbol. Blocking terrain naturally limits the effective LOS range. 
7.7.1 Long Range Firing 
If the range to a target exceeds an attacking unit’s range, but is 
less than or equal to twice its range, the attacking unit may fire but 
subtracts 2 from its FP.
Designer’s Note: The ranges on the counters represent the 
distances at which the units historically shot in combat situations, not 
their true maximum range capabilities. 
7.7.2 Short Range Firing 
If an attacking unit is in a hex adjacent to a target, the target is 
considered to be in short range and the 
attacking unit adds +3 to its FP. 
Ex: Figure 12. German Turn: Pioneer 
C moves adjacent to the Soviet MMG D. 
Soviet Turn: The MMG fires. Since the 
German is in the adjacent hex, the MMG 
adds +3FP short range bonus to his 3FP 
for a total 6FP. 
7.7.3 Same Hex and Close Combat (CC) 
Units may move into enemy-occupied hexes. A player on his turn 
may (but does not have to) attack an opposing unit in the same hex 
thru CC. The CC attack requires an AP, CAP, opportunity, or card 
action. If the opponent’s unit survives, it may take an action to attack 
back or retreat on its turn with an AP, CAP, opportunity, or card action.
The FP of units in CC are modified as follows: 
-2FP for all units with a white box around their FP.
+4FP for all other units.
Ex: The HMG has a white box around its red FP so 
in CC it is reduced from 5FP to 3FP. 
Units with a minimum fire range, including mortars and 
field guns, may still CC. 
- CC does not affect other friendly units in the same hex.
- CC is resolved against the flank DR of the target enemy unit.
- Terrain modifiers affect all units defending in CC. 
- Fortifications benefit only the occupying units (18.1).
- Units in CC can form firegroups (9.1.2) only with other friendly units 
in the same hex.
- Units cannot fire or sight outside of their hex for attacking, spotting, 	
 or victory condition purposes while enemy units are in their hex.
Advancing into an enemy hex is an action, so the defender may 
react with any unit, including the defending unit. If the defending unit 
decides to retreat out of the hex, it may not move into the same hex 
or either of the two adjacent hexes from which the advancing unit had 
just moved from. It may move into these hexes in later actions.
A unit or group may CC fire at only one enemy unit per turn. 
Ex: Two German Rifle units group move (9.1.1) into a hex 
occupied by a Soviet Rifle. The Soviet Rifle may CC attack only one 
of the Germans per turn.
Designer’s Note: When firing at stacked units in another hex, 
the attacker rolls against each enemy unit. But in close combat, the 
attacker may only fire at one enemy unit at a time to simulate melee 
and overrun engagements. 
Outside units can fire into a CC hex resolving fire against all units 
in the hex, friends and foes alike. Terrain modifiers and individual 
flank facings apply for fire originating from outside of the hex.
Ex: A spent unit, which has no CAPs or action cards to play, is 
surprised and cannot react to an enemy unit moving into its hex. 
Ex: Figure 13. A Soviet Rifle occupying heavy 
woods is being assaulted by German Pioneers. 
German Turn: The German moves cautiously 
forward into the hex next to the Soviets for 2APs. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet Rifle fires at short range 
with a 6AV (3FP + 3 Short Range Bonus) against 
the Pioneer’s 12DV and misses. 
German Turn: The Pioneers move into the hex 
with the Soviet Rifle. 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet Rifle CC fires with a 7AV (3FP + 4CC Bonus) 
against the Engineer’s 14DV (12 Flank DR + 2 Heavy Woods DM). 
The Soviet needs a 7 to hit and scores! Luckily for the Germans, they 
Figure 13
Figure 11
Figure 12

Cards & Groups
beginning of a game. A unit may use an assigned weapon card for 
a separate attack action or as part of a firegroup action. A weapon 
card's firepower is modified by any hit marker the unit using the 
weapon may have. 
Ex: A German LMG with a 'Stunned' hit counter may not use an 
assigned Grenades card until rallied. 
Ex: A spent German Rifle unit in close combat plays its assigned 
grenades against Soviet Rifle as an action for 0 cost. The grenades 
attack with a red 5FP against the Soviet's 11 flank defense rating. 
8.5 Card Icon Details
Some cards have icons printed on the bottom. 
Group Action - The card may be played as part of a group 
action (9.1) if paid for with CAPs. Ex: Card #03 ‘Follow Me!’ 
allows all units in a group to rally.
High Explosive - The weapon attack is always resolved 
against the target’s flank defense rating. 
Action Spent - The weapon attack is considered an action. 
9.0 Shared Activations
Multiple fresh units can be activated together to coordinate their 
actions. The activated units take individual actions whose costs 
are deducted from a shared 7AP pool. A player need not declare 
which units are going to share an activation before taking actions. 
He may add units at will. Units sharing activations do not have to be 
in the same or adjacent hexes. Units sharing an activation continue 
spending the shared 7AP pool, even if any of them are destroyed. 
Each individual shared action still counts as a turn, which is followed 
by the opponent’s turn. When the shared AP pool is spent, all the 
units that shared the activation are marked as spent. 
Summary: A player activates a unit and advances the AP track 
marker to 7APs as always. But now he may take actions with other 
fresh units also, paying for their actions from this shared 7AP pool. 
Ex: A Soviet Rifle is activated and advances the AP track marker 
to 7APs. It moves west into a clear road hex for 1AP and counts the 
AP track down to 6APs. The German passes. A fresh Soviet MMG 
(with a 2AP movement rate) shares the Soviet Rifle's activation and 
moves 1 hex east onto the Rifle’s hex. The MMG's 2AP movement 
cost is paid for from shared AP pool and the units have 4APs 
remaining. 
9.1 Group Actions
Multiple units may take any action as a group including moving, firing, 
and rallying. Group actions may be taken by:
- Units sharing their activation.
- Fresh units grouping an opportunity action.
- Fresh, activated or spent units grouping a command action.
- Fresh, activated or spent units grouping the results of a card. 
A player’s turn ends only after all participating units have completed 
the group action. 
9.1.1 Group Movement
Units in the same or continuous adjacent hexes may group move and 
pay only the AP cost of the moving unit with the highest cost to move. 
Ex: The Soviet Rifle and MMG stacked together in the last 
example. They now group move together into an open hex. The total 
cost for the move is 2APs, based only on the MMG’s movement cost 
and they now have 2APs remaining in their shared AP pool.
Ex: Figure 14. Soviet Turn: 
Four Soviet Rifles, that are 
sharing an activation, group 
move towards the German 
HMG. Three Rifles move into 
open terrain, but the fourth 
moves into heavy woods so 
the group must pay the costlier 
2AP woods movement. Had all 
units moved into open terrain 
hexes, the group move would 
have only cost a total of 1AP. 
Figure 14. German Turn: The 
German activates the HMG and fires at the second Rifle unit for 2APs 
and destroys it. 
Units that are split, either by moving away from each other or thru 
combat, can no longer group move until they are again adjacent.
pull an “Unnerved” hit marker. 
German Turn: The Pioneers fire with an 8AV (4FP + 4CC Bonus) 
against the Soviet’s 13DV (11 Flank DR + 2 Heavy Woods DM). They 
need a 5 to hit and a 9 to kill. 
You are now ready to play Firefight 1. 
Play this firefight before continuing on with the rules.
Section 2 
In this section you will be introduced to cards that add uncertainty 
and army-specific tactics to the game. You will also learn how to 
coordinate the efforts of your units. 
8.0 Cards
There are several types of cards in the game. 
- Action cards 
 are played as an action. 
- Bonus cards 
 do not count as an action, but influence some 	
 other action the player is taking. 
- Event cards 
 trigger special events or designate scoring rounds.
- Weapon cards 
 give players extra ‘toys’ to play with. 
Each firefight specifies which action, bonus, 
and event cards are shuffled into a single 
deck at the beginning of the game using the 
card ID numbers in their lower left corner.
In each pre-round sequence (2.0), 
players draw one or more cards (as specified 
by each firefight) from the top of the deck. 
Action and bonus cards are held secretly 
until played, but event cards are played 
immediately. There is no limit to the number 
of cards a player may hold in his hand or play 
in a round. Un-played cards may be held into 
future rounds. Individual card descriptions are listed on page 17.
The cost to play an action, bonus or weapon card is listed in the 
middle of each card. If the cost icon is blue, the cost must be paid 
in CAPs and if in green, the cost 
must be paid by an activated unit’s 
APs. If the icon is split with both 
colors, the action may be paid with 
any combination of APs or CAPs. 
A card paid for with an activated 
unit’s APs must be played on that 
unit. Cards with no cost or cards 
paid for entirely with CAPs may be 
played on any unit. 
8.1 Action Cards 
 
Action cards have a green lightning bolt icon in the top left corner and 
are played as an action. Action cards give a player additional APs, 
CAPs or allow him to take certain actions. 
Ex: A fresh Soviet MMG is hit and draws a 
pinned hit marker. The Soviet player has card #03 
‘Follow Me - Automatic Rally’ in his hand. He plays 
it on his turn as an action, paying 2CAPs. The 
hit marker is removed and the Soviet unit is not 
marked as spent.
8.2 Bonus Cards 
 
Playing a bonus card does not count as an action. 
These cards are played in addition to an action 
the player has taken or may take, including having 
played another action or weapon card. 
Action and Bonus Cards are discarded after 
having been played.
8.3 Event Cards 
 
Event Cards initiate events such as reinforcements 
entering the game or a special scoring. Each 
firefight specifies if and how these cards are to be 
used. 
8.4 Weapon Cards 
 
Weapon cards represent weapons that units can 
use and are played as an action. Each firefight 
will designate which, if any, weapon cards are in 
use. A weapon card is discarded after use, unless 
specified otherwise in the firefight. A weapon’s 
range and firepower is detailed on the card. 
Weapon cards, other than artillery, are 
assigned to specific foot units by a player at the 
Objectives are specified
in the firefight setup.
Objective #1
Attempt to rally a unit 
not in close combat. 
Rally Up!
One Rally Attempt
Take two turns in a row, 
skipping an opponent’s 
turn. Play this card during 
the first turn.
Swift Action
Take Extra Turn
Cost: 2 APs
An activated unit may roll 
1D6 and add its result to 
the CAPs track for use this 
Frontline Officer
+1D6 CAPs
AP or CAP 
cost to use.
Card Title
Group Action
Card ID #
Card 
Description
Card Type Icon
use grenades as an action.
Grenades
Stielhandgranate m24
Both players total and score 
mid-game victory points. 
After playing this card, 
draw a new card.
Score
Figure 14

Group Actions
Figure 15. Soviet Turn: The Soviet 
player has 5APs remaining in the 
shared AP pool and for his next 
action he could either group move 
the two adjacent units or move the 
lone unit in the woods. He may not 
group move all three, since they are 
not adjacent. He decides to move the 
group of two Rifles forward for 1AP, 
leaving him 4APs in the pool. 
Not all units included in a group move action must move. 
Ex: Three adjacent units initiate a group move action. The 
center unit holds its position, while the two adjacent Rifle units move 
forward one open hex. The APs paid are determined by the unit with 
the highest cost to move. If the center unit had been a MMG with 2AP 
cost to move, the group move would have still only cost 1AP, since the 
MMG did not move. 
Units included in a group move may split by moving away from 
each other. Some or all units part of a group move may just pivot.
Hit units, still able to move, may participate in a group move.
9.1.2 Group Firing
Multiple units may group fire by creating a firegroup. Firegroups must 
target a single hex. A firegroup designates one unit as the fire leader, 
with the rest of the units in the firegroup supporting it. Supporting units 
must (a) be in the fire leader’s hex and/or the six hexes around the fire 
leader, (b) have the target hex in their arc of fire (including turreted units 
15.4), (c)have a clear LOS, (d) be in range (i.e., not in long range), 
and (e) not have a hit marker that affects their FP. Only the fire leader 
pays the cost to fire. Units may only join firegroups if they have a FP 
greater than 0 (this FP can include range bonuses). Each supporting 
unit in the firegroup increases the FP of the fire leader by 1FP. 
All fire modifiers are determined by the group’s fire leader.
Ex: Figure 16. A fresh German LMG and a fresh 
Rifle group fire at a target. The LMG is designated as the 
fire leader and pays 2APs. Its FP increases from 4FP 
to 5FP due to the support of the Rifle. These two units 
could also have been in adjacent hexes to group fire.
9.1.3 Group Rally
Units in the same or continuous adjacent hexes may group rally for 
5APs/CAPs. Each rallying unit rolls separately (7.6). 
9.1.4 Other Group Actions
Multiple units in the same or continuous adjacent hexes may take 
other group actions such as creating group hasty defenses, etc. 
Ingenious combinations of group actions are limited only by a player’s 
creativity. 
Ex: An activated German Rifle moves next to a fresh HMG unit. 
On his next turn, the German plays a hasty defense card on both units. 
They both receive a hasty defense counter. The HMG is not marked 
as spent, since only a card action was played on it.
9.2 Group Action Details
A group action may never be taken by multiple units that are not in 
the same or continuous adjacent hexes. Group actions can be taken 
and paid for in several ways: 
- Units sharing their activations pay for a group action out of their 
shared activation 7AP pool. (The AP pool amount may vary if 
optional ‘Variable AP Allocation’ rule 3.0.1 is used.)
- Multiple fresh units may take a group opportunity action. After a 
group opportunity action is taken, all participating units are marked 
as spent. 
 Ex: Two fresh German Rifles are stacked together and have 
been overrun by a Soviet T-34 tank. The Rifles group move with an 
opportunity action and retreat backwards into non-adjacent hexes. 
Both are marked as spent.
- Multiple fresh, activated or spent units may take group command 
actions using only CAPs. Fresh and activated units are not marked 
as spent. 
 Ex: An activated German Rifle moves into a hex with a non-
activated HMG. The two group command fire for 2CAPs (the HMG is 
the fire leader). The Rifle then moves on using what remains of his 
AP pool. The HMG is not marked as spent. 
- Multiple fresh, activated or spent units may take group card actions. 
Fresh and activated units are not marked as spent. 
 Ex: Two hit Rifles are in adjacent hexes, one spent, the other 
fresh. Auto-Rally card #3 is played on both Rifles for a cost of 2CAPs. 
Both Rifles remove the hit markers and the one Rifle is still fresh. 
 Ex: Four adjacent Rifles all move forward two hexes with ‘Rapid 
Deployment’ card #5. 
Players may intersperse individual actions and group actions.
Ex: Figure 17. German LMG A 
activates and moves into Rifle B’s 
hex for 1AP. 
The Soviet passes. 
 Figure 18. Both units command 
group move forward one hex for 
1CAP. CAPs instead of APs are paid 
because Rifle B does not want to 
share LMG A’s activation. Again the 
Soviet passes. Now both German 
units command group fire at Rifle 
C, with LMG A as the fire leader, for 
2CAPs. The LMG’s FP increases 
from 4 to 5FP and a hit is scored. 
The Soviet randomly pulls a pinned 
hit marker. 
Figure 19. The LMG A moves 
into the stone building for 2APs and 
has 4APs left. It could continue to 
fire, continue moving, or take other 
actions. Rifle B is not marked as 
spent since only CAPs were utilized 
for all group actions. 
New Example: Figure 17. This 
time both German units share their 
activation. LMG A moves into Rifle 
B’s hex for 1AP. The Soviet passes. 
Then both units group move forward 
for another 1AP. The Soviet passes. 
In Figure 18, they group fire for 3APs 
and miss. The Soviet passes. LMG 
A moves into the stone building for 
2APs and the units have no APs 
remaining in their group AP pool. 
Both units are marked as spent. 
10.0 Hidden Units
A firefight will state if and how many units start the game hidden. The 
locations of hidden units are written on a piece of paper instead of 
placing the units on the map. The opponent has no idea where these 
units are since no counters are placed on the map. Free hidden unit 
tracking maps are available at www.Academy-Games.com. 
Hidden units do not have a facing until they are revealed and 
placed on the map. At this time the player may choose their facing. 
Hidden units are revealed if:
10.01 A hidden unit takes an action. Hidden units are revealed 
immediately if they take any action other than hidden movement or 
stalling, even if out of enemy LOS. It and all other hidden units in the 
same hex are immediately revealed and placed on the map. 
Cards may be played on a player’s own hidden units, but doing 
so reveals them unless stated otherwise in the card’s description.
10.02 A hidden and a non-hidden unit are in the same hex. 
Hidden units are immediately revealed when they are in the same hex 
as any friendly or enemy non-hidden unit.
10.03 A hidden unit is fired upon and hit. 
Sometimes an attacker will shoot at a promising hex hoping to reveal 
an enemy. If multiple hidden units are in a hex, incoming fire is 
resolved only against the unit with the lowest front DR. 
Mortar and artillery fire (9.2) are resolved against the unit with 
the lowest flank DR. 
If one hidden unit is hit and revealed, all other hidden units in the 
same hex are also revealed and placed on the map (see 2 above). 
 Attacks against hexes with potential hidden units are resolved 
even if there are no hidden units in the hex. 
Ex: A Soviet Rifle unit is hidden in a heavy woods hex for a red 
14DV (12 front DR + 2DM for woods). A German HMG fires at the hex 
because he thinks it may be a good place for a hidden unit. In this 
case he guessed correctly, but does not know it. He scores a 13AV 
and misses. The Soviet player promptly ridicules the German for 
thinking that there could be a hidden unit in that hex.
10.04 An enemy unit moves into the same hex or near it. 
Units hidden in open terrain hexes stay hidden until an enemy unit 
moves within 2 hexes of their hex and has a clear LOS.
Units hidden in cover terrain stay hidden until an enemy unit 
moves into the same hex. 
Figure 15
Figure 16
Figure 17
Figure 19
Figure 18

Hills
Ex: Figure 21. The HMG is on ground level (L0) and does not have 
LOS to the shaded/yellow outlined hexes. The HMG can see hex B 
(L1), but not hex D, because of the plateau effect. The HMG has LOS 
to the first L2 hill crest hexes H thru K, but not anything beyond them. 
Ex: Figure 22. Here we see the Fig 21 HMG’s LOS from a side view 
and the plateau effect. A can see B and H, but not D. 
All woods and buildings act as L1 obstacles for LOS purposes. 
L1 obstacles are added to hill levels for LOS determination. 
Ex: Figure 21. Hex G is a L1 hill with woods, equating to a L2 
obstacle. Ex: Woods or buildings on L0 hexes equate to L1 obstacles. 
11.4 Blind Spots
Hexes directly behind any obstacle are blind spots and out of LOS to 
units located at higher levels (and vice versa). 
Ex: Figure 23. Hex 1 (L2) has a clear LOS into hexes 2, 3 and 11, but 
no LOS to hexes 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10, because of the L1 obstacles along 
the LOS path (woods 2 & 3 and buildings 7 & 8). 
Designer’s Note: Blind spots simulate units hugging a tree line or 
houses to stay out of the LOS of enemy units perched on hills. 
A clear hill hex does not create a blind spot for units firing from 
higher up along the same hill slope. Ex: 1 to 3 below. 
Ex: Figure 24. Here we see a side view of the LOS from hexes 1 to 9. 
Ex: A unit in hex 16 (L1) has LOS into hex 3 but nothing beyond, 
because the light woods acts as a L1 obstacle and thus is the same 
height as hex 16, creating a plateau effect. Anything beyond the woods 
is not visible. 
Fortifications such as bunkers and hasty defenses (18.1) count as 
cover. Higher elevation DMs do not apply as covering terrain. See the 
Movement & Terrain Summary Sheet for a complete listing.
10.1 Hidden Unburdened Foot Unit Movement
Hidden unburdened foot units (1.1) may move and remain hidden. 
Hidden movement adds +3APs movement cost penalty when moving 
into cover terrain and +6APs movement cost penalty when moving 
into non-cover terrain. All other movement modifiers are ignored. 
Ex: It costs a Soviet Rifle unit 4APs to move hidden into a heavy 
woods hex. 
Hidden units may move into or within enemy LOS. They may 
move adjacent to an enemy unit and still remain hidden, as long as 
they stay in cover terrain. Thus, a hidden unit would be revealed if it 
moved into open terrain that was within 2 hexes of an enemy unit.
To move a hidden unit(s) a player states which hidden unit he is 
activating, takes the action, and marks the new location on a sheet of 
paper or the “hidden unit tracking map” for future reference. 
When a hidden unit is activated and performs a hidden move, the 
player deducts the AP costs from the Unit AP Track the same as with 
any other unit. Once a hidden unit is spent, the hidden unit counter is 
placed next to the map in open view and is marked as spent. 
10.2 Hiding Unburdened Foot Units During a Game
Un-hit unburdened foot units that are out of enemy LOS may spend 
7APs to hide themselves within a 1 hex radius of their current position. 
The destination hex must also be out of enemy LOS. The units are 
taken off of the map and their new hex position is secretly written down. 
Unburdened foot units may hide as a group using the group action rules. 
You are now ready to play Firefight 2. 
Section 3
In this section you will learn how to deal with changes of elevation 
on the game map. We also introduce mortars, artillery, and rules for 
using smoke to protect your units.
11.0 Hills
Hills are contoured on the map and come in levels that abstractly 
represent the height of the hill. All non-hill open terrain is considered 
to be ground level 0 (L0). Level 1 (L1) hill hexes are designated by 
one 
 symbol behind the hex number and level 2 (L2) hill hexes are 
designated by two 
 symbols behind the hex number. A hill covering 
the center dot of a hex fills the entire hex even if the artwork does not. 
A bare hill hex with no buildings or woods is considered open terrain.
 Moving up a hill incurs a +1AP movement penalty per level to the 
moving unit. Roads do not negate this penalty.
Ex: Figure 20. 
A Rifle moving from 
hex A to B pays 
2APs (1AP for open 
terrain movement 
+1AP for moving up 
one level). If there 
were heavy woods 
in the higher level 
hex, the cost would 
be 3APs (2APs for 
woods movement 
+1AP for moving up 
a level).
11.1 Steep Terrain
Elevation changes of two or more levels over a single hexside is 
considered steep terrain. Foot movement up a steep terrain hex 
carries a +2AP movement penalty. Vehicles may not move up a 
steep terrain hex side 
 .
Ex: Figure 20. The Pioneers may move from F to G or H for 
3APs (1AP for open movement, +2 for moving up steep terrain). 
11.2 Higher Elevatio n Bonuses
Units on a higher level attacked by units from a lower level receive a 
+1DM. Units at a higher level firing at units on a lower lever receive a 
+1FP modifier.
11.3 Elevation and Line of Sight (LOS)
A unit has LOS to a higher level target hex if there are no obstacles of 
equal or greater level than the target hex between the two. A unit has 
LOS to a lower level target hex if there are no obstacles of equal or 
greater level than the firing unit hex between the two.
2APs
2APs
Figure 20
J
K
I
Figure 21
Figure 22
Figure 23
Figure 24

Mortars
12.0 Mortar Units
Mortar units represent teams of 2-6 men that fire explosive shells 
directly or indirectly. When a mortar can see its target, it fires directly. 	
Some mortars can fire indirectly over obstacles at targets not in the 
mortar’s LOS. These mortars have an AP Indirect Fire Cost marked 
on the counter in parentheses. To fire indirectly, the mortar unit must 
use a spotting 
hex. This is any 
hex with a clear 
LOS to and within 
2 hexes of the 
mortar that is not 
enemy occupied. 
The mortar unit 
has LOS from the 
spotting hex for all 
purposes. 
Ex: Figure 25. The mortar 
can use any of the highlighted 
hexes as spotting hexes, even 
those outside of its arc of fire. The 
mortar’s target must be within its 
arc of fire and in a spotting hex’s 
LOS. 
 Designer’s Note: Mortar 
units sent spotter teams out who 
directed the fire for the mortars. 
These teams are simulated in the 
game by the spotting hex. The 
proximity between the spotting hex 
and the mortar team is necessary, 
since the spotters had to signal or 
call instructions to the mortar team. 
Very few platoon and company 
mortars had radios at this time. 
Some firefights may alter this rule 
for larger mortars, since some company level mortars ran telephone 
wires or had radio contact.
 Mortars may fire from woods and building hexes. (Mortars were 
often set up in yards, alleyways, or small woodland clearings.)
 Mortars may not fire at targets that are closer than their minimum 
range and must fire at targets in their arc of fire. 
Mortars may conduct close combat, but may not fire short range 
if their minimum range is 2 or more. 
Attack elevation bonuses for mortars are determined by the height 
of the spotting hex when using indirect fire. 
12.1 Mortar and Artillery Fire Resolution
Mortar and artillery units have a high explosive symbol 
 next to their 
firepower which denotes that their attacks are resolved against a 
target's flank DR (including hidden units). Target units still receive the 
benefit of all terrain & fortification DMs (exception - 12.2 Air Bursts).
12.2 Mortar and Artillery Air Bursts
Units with red colored flank defense ratings that are in a heavy woods 
hex do not receive the heavy woods’ +2DM when subjected to high 
explosive 
 mortar or artillery fire. 
 Designer’s Note: Usually artillery exploded upon impact with the 
ground. But when artillery shells hit dense tree cover, the shells would 
burst in the air sending shell and tree fragments raining down upon 
units on the ground and in fox holes. This effect was devastating. 
12.3 Off-Board Artillery (OBA)
Off-board artillery is represented by weapon 
cards and each firefight states if any are 
available. OBA has a 1 round delay. A player 
secretly writes down a target hex during the 
current pre-round target sequence and resolves 
that artillery strike during the next pre-round 
resolution sequence. The mechanics for 
resolving off-board artillery are exactly like on-
board mortar fire, except that off-board attacks 
are resolved against multiple hexes, usually 
the target hex and the 6 hexes surrounding 
it. (The affected hexes are marked on each 
weapon card.) A separate attack is resolved against each of these 
7 hexes. Of course, if there are multiple units in a hex, the off-board 
fire is resolved separately for each unit. (We recommend that players 
download the free artillery planning maps from www.Academy-Games.
com.)
Off-board artillery spotters are specified in a firefight’s setup rules. 
A spotter for OBA only needs to have LOS when the hexes are 
targeted, not when the OBA is resolved. OBA spotters may be hidden 
and are not revealed when spotting. 
Elevation attack bonuses do not apply to OBA and their spotters.
Designer’s Note: Artillery fire was usually shot from kilometers 
away at pre-registered targets and was either called in by radio, field 
telephone, or pre-arranged signals such as flares. The pre-registered 
targets were marked on maps (or more likely, tissue overlays placed 
over the map) and were usually easily identifiable terrain features 
such as crossroads, developed areas, or high ground. The Soviets 
usually had indirect artillery support only when defending or attacking 
a fixed front line. On the move, any field guns in a Soviet force fired 
only over open sights providing direct heavy artillery fire. The German 
Army could call in fire on the move using reference points on a map 
and call for the fire by radio from a command tank or APC.
13.0 Smoke
Smoke is used to create a screen to cover a unit’s 
position and movement. When smoke is fired, a +2DM 
smoke counter is placed in the target hex. LOS and 
fire attacks may originate and end in a +2DM smoke 
hex, but may not pass through it. Units receiving fire 
originating from or ending in a +2DM smoke hex 
receive a +2DM. 
Ex: A targeted unit in a +2DM smoke hex adds +2DM to its DR. 
Ex: A unit firing out of a +2DM smoke hex adds +2DM to its 
target’s DR.
+2DM Smoke negates open terrain bonus movement 
 
 for that 
hex (14.1). 
At the beginning of every new round, all +2DM smoke counters 
are flipped to their +1DM side and all +1DM smoke counters are 
removed from the map. 
+1DM smoke counters simulate smoke that has 
dissipated. These counters partially obscure LOS 
passing through the smoke, but do not block LOS. 
Units may see and fire through a +1DM smoke hex. 
Units receive +1DM to all fire originating, ending, or 
passing thru the +1DM smoke hex.
Smoke effects are cumulative. Two +1DM smoke counters in a 
hex act as a +2DM smoke screen and block all LOS through the hex. 
Two +2DM counters add +4DM for the hex, and so on. LOS passing 
through two hexes, each with a +1DM smoke counter, is blocked past 
the second hex. 
Each DM worth of smoke acts as a L1 obstacle. 
Ex: A +2DM smoke counter acts as a L2 obstacle, a +1DM 
counter acts as a L1 obstacle. 
Smoke never damages units.
13.1 Unit Smoke Capability
Mortars that are 8cm (80mm) or larger, all off-board artillery, and 
Pioneers may fire smoke unless disallowed by the firefight. Other 
units may not fire smoke unless permitted by the firefight. Tanks 
and guns that can fire smoke rounds may target hexes within the 
same range as their normal attacks, including long range. Engineer 
units may only place smoke counters in their own hex or 1 hex away 
(9.1.2). 
Smoke automatically hits the hex at which it is aimed. Off-board 
artillery smoke, which must be marked down when targeting a hex, 
affects the same target hexes like a normal attack. 
Unless otherwise specified, any smoke placed by units is +2DM.
You are now ready to play Firefight 3.
Section 4
This section adds some special vehicle movement, transport and 
combat rules. 
14.0 Vehicle Movement
Vehicle Movement rules are identical to the Foot Movement rules 
covered in section 1. Below are additional rules that pertain only to 
vehicles. Vehicles are either tracked units (such as tanks) or wheeled 
units (such as trucks and cars). Tracked units have a blue movement 
cost and wheeled units have a green movement cost in the top right 
corner of their counters. 
14.1 Bonus Movement
Some vehicles receive bonus moves in certain terrains. These 
potential bonus moves are represented on a counter by track 
 or by 
wheel 
 symbols below the movement cost. 
Fire. Directly 
or Indirectly
Flank 
Firepower 
(FP)
HE Symbol
Front
10,5cm Howitzer 18
Figure 25
Mortar 
Spotting 
Hexes

Vehicles
A unit with a bonus move symbol(s) on its counter, that pays to move 
into terrain that lists one of these symbols, may take one free bonus 
move for every symbol on its counter. The bonus move(s) must be 
taken into terrain that allows this type of bonus move. 
Ex: The truck shown to the right has a green 
movement cost, so it is classified as “Wheeled Vehicle” 
on the Movement Table. The truck also has two 
 
bonus move symbols. The Movement Table shows that 
wheeled vehicles get bonus moves on roads. If this 
truck pays to move from one road hex to another for 
1AP, it may move up to two additional road hexes at not 
additional cost. 
Ex: The Soviet T-34a tank shown to the right has 
two 
 symbols. Its movement cost is blue, so it is 
classified as a “Tracked Vehicle”. Under the Tracked 
Movement column; open terrain and roads list a bonus 
move per 
. If the tank pays to move into any of 
these terrains, it may move an additional two of any 
combination of these terrain hexes for free. 
For example, the T-34 could pay to move into 
an open hex for 1AP and then take free bonus 
moves into an open hex and then a road hex.
Ex: Figure 26. German Turn: The PzIIIe 
moves along the white arrow path paying 1AP 
to move into the first open hex. It then bonus 
moves into the next open hex. Only after the 
bonus move does the German’s turn end. 
Next German Turn: The Panzer moves into 
the heavy woods hex for a total of 3APs (1AP 
movement cost, plus 2APs heavy woods 
movement penalty). Woods do not allow the 
tank a bonus move and he ends his turn. 
Ex: Figure 26. German Turn: The 
PzIIIe moves along the yellow arrow path 
paying 1AP to move into the open hex. The 
German’s turn ends, since woods do not 
allow bonus moves. 
Next German Turn: The Panzer moves into 
the heavy woods for 3APs. His turn ends and 
so on. 
A unit’s movement action includes all 
bonus movements. An entire multiple hex 
movement action must be completed before a player’s turn ends. 
So in each of the examples above, the opponent may not take his 
turn until the paid and bonus moves are fully completed. 
Designer’s Note: A unit’s movement cost takes into account the 
time it took to give orders, study maps, set for sighting, and so on. 
The unit’s movement allowance is an abstraction of these processes. 
Even though a truck full of men could reach 100 kph, seldom did it 
travel so fast over bumpy or muddy roads.
14.2 Roads 
Roads negate hex restrictions and movement costs of terrain that 
covers the center of the hex. So a wheeled vehicle, which is usually 
restricted from entering a woods hex, can follow a road into woods 
paying the road movement cost only. Units must follow the roads 
from hex to hex to gain the road movement advantage.
Roads do not affect the DM of the hex. 
Bridges function as roads over bodies of water. 
Ex: Figure 26. The PzIIIe moves from the 
woods hex onto the road hex, paying another 
3APs. Only when he is on the first road hex 
and moves to the next road hex is he able to 
take advantage of the road movement through 
woods.
Ex: Figure 27. The T-34 tank with two 
 
bonus symbols can move a total of 3 open 
hexes. The T-34 moves 3 open hexes up a hill. 
The total cost is 3APs (One additional 1AP for 
each uphill level traversed). The three hex move 
counts as one action and the opponent cannot 
react until the tank has reached the top of the 
hill. 
Road Congestion - Wheeled vehicles receive no 
 bonus 
moves when entering a road hex that already contains other vehicles. 
14.3 Enemy Occupied Hexes 
Vehicles may move into and through hexes occupied by both friendly 
and enemy units. If vehicles move thru a hex without stopping, they 
cannot be engaged in CC.
14.4 Reverse Movement 
A unit may move backwards into any of its flank hexes for a +1AP 
movement penalty cost, which is added to the normal movement cost 
of the terrain. 
Movement bonuses do not apply when moving in reverse. 
14.5 Vehicle Immobilization
Vehicles can be immobilized while moving over certain 
terrain such as stone buildings or marsh. After moving 
into terrain whose movement cost is followed by an “!” 
on the Vehicle Movement Table, the vehicle must check 
for immobilization. The player must roll 2D6 and score 
a 6 or higher to prevent his unit from being immobilized. 
He may modify this dice roll with CAPs.
Immobilized vehicles may not pivot, but turreted vehicles may 
still fire outside of their arc of fire (15.4). 
Towing - Immobilized or stunned wheeled vehicles may be towed by 
wheeled or tracked vehicles. Tracked vehicles may be towed only by 
other tracked vehicles and receive no bonus moves. 
Vehicles that were immobilized due to terrain and are towed out 
of the immobilizing terrain may move again. A vehicle immobilized by 
a hit marker always remains immobilized, but may still be towed. 
15.0 Armored Defense Rating and Firepower
Until now we have only considered unarmored units such as infantry 
and various support teams. These unarmored units have front and 
flank DRs marked in red on their counters. These units usually fire 
bullets or high explosive ammunitions, marked by red FP values on 
their counters.
An armored unit’s front and flank DR is marked in blue on its counter. 
Similarly, certain units have munitions such as armor-piercing rounds. 
The armor-piercing FP is marked in blue on their counters. Blue FP 
can only be fired at units with blue defense ratings.
 Designer’s Note: When developing the tank FP values and DRs, 
round penetration and armor thickness were not the only factors 
taken into account. These would have generated distorted values. 
Targeting equipment, crew training, tank maintenance, rate of fire, 
armor slope, relative armor thickness, round “stick” factors, steel 
quality, radio access, movement speed, and more were considered 
Vehicle Movement Costs
 Additional AP Cost to Move into a Hex
Wheeled Vehicle
Tracked Vehicle
Open Terrain
Road / Bridge
Buildings-Stone
+3! AP 
Buildings-Wood
Plowed Field
Road Block
+1D6 AP
Wall
Water
Woods - Heavy
Woods - Light
Move Backwards
Move Uphill
Movement AP Costs are cumulative.
! = Check for immobilization: 2D6 ≥ 6 is safe.
 = Move a bonus open, road or plowed hex.
 = Move an extra road hex.
 
 = No bonus movement allowed into this hex. 
NA = Not accessible.
Figure 26
1APs
Figure 27
Move 1
Move 2
Firepower (FP)
MG & HE (Red)
Armor-Piercing (Blue)
AP Cost to Fire. 
Circle means the 
unit is turreted. 
AP Cost to Move
Tracked 
Movement Bonus
Flank Defense
Front Defense

Vehicles & Transport
for the system to yield historical combat results. On paper, the Soviet 
T-34 outclassed any German tank available in mid-1941. However a 
T-34 tank crew was ill-trained, often the tank commander had a very 
limited field of vision, many tanks had very few armor-piercing rounds 
on board, and often the transmissions broke down within days of 
rolling off the assembly line with no spare parts available. These and 
other factors gave the Germans their 7:1 tank kill ratio.
 The ranges on the counters represent the distances at which the 
units historically shot, not their true maximum ranges. For example, 
the Panzer IIIe had a fire range of over 1800m, but knocked out over 
70% of its victims at less than 500m!
15.1 Multiple Target Types
A unit firing at a hex with multiple targets that have different DR colors 
fires against each target with its FP of the corresponding color. 
 Ex: The T-34 tank, shown below, fires at a hex containing a tank 
and an infantry units. Against the tank, the T-34 uses its blue 7FP. 
Against the infantry unit, it uses its red 5FP. 
15.2 Vehicle Hits
Hits against vehicles are resolved in the same manner as hits against 
foot units (7.4 and 7.5). 
Destroyed
Destroyed (x1): 
• Immediately remove 
the affected unit 
from the map.
Gun 
Damaged
Gun Damaged (x2): 
• Either the Blue 
or Red FP ability 
is damaged and 
cannot be used 
to attack.
Immobilized
Immobilized (x5): 
• Unit may not move 
or pivot.
• Front DR decrease 
by 1, flank DR 
increase by 1.
Light 
Damage
Light Damage (x4): 
• Unit mechanical 
stats are not 
affected, but the 
crew is rattled. 
-4
R>9 
+0
Panicked
Panicked (x1): 
• Unit may not fire.
• Front DR 
decreases by 4.
• 9 needed to rally. 
R>9 
Stunned
Stunned (x2): 
• Unit may not 
move, fire or take 
any action other 
than rally.
• 9 needed to rally. 
-3
+1 R>8 
Suppressed
Suppressed (x5): 
• Costs +1AP to fire. 
• FP decreases by 
2 for red and 3 for 
blue.
• 8 needed to rally. 
Back of Hit 
Markers 
• All vehicle hit 
markers have the 
same back art.
 = The ability is lost. Black means all, blue or red is gun color specific. 
Designer’s Note: Some vehicle hit markers cannot be rallied because 
most of the damage to them was of a physical nature that could not 
be readily repaired in the heat of battle. 
15.3 Range Effects
Combat ranges for vehicles and their effect on FP are identical to that 
of foot units covered in section 7.7.
15.4 Turreted Vehicles
Some vehicles, such as tanks, have turreted guns 
which are designated with a white circle under their 
AP cost to fire. A turreted gun can rotate 360 degrees 
without the vehicle having to change its facing. Thus, 
vehicles with turreted guns are the only units that can 
fire at targets outside their arcs of fire, which they may 
do for an additional 1AP/CAP cost to fire. The tank’s facing does 
not change when firing outside of its arc and does not constitute an 
additional action. Turreted vehicles firing outside of their arc with an 
Opportunity Action or a Command Action Card do not have to pay an 
additional 1AP/CAP.
 Designer’s Note: Most tanks kept their turret firing action within 
the front 120 degree arc rotational. If a tank was threatened by an 
enemy, the crew would try to face the threat, thus offering the smallest 
target silhouette with the highest armored area while protecting the 
treads of the tank. Often tactical logic was overcome by the sheer 
psychological stress and panic of taking flank shots. 
 Self-propelled Guns (SPGs) were field guns 
mounted onto a tank chassis. Having no turret, they 
had limited horizontal tracking ability and had to pivot 
the entire tank in order to follow a target. This made 
moving target acquisitions more difficult than for tanks. 
This combat occurrence is designed into the game mechanics, 
dispensing complicated turret rules. The rotation speed, crew training 
and reaction speed, command visibility, and targeting capabilities are 
calculated into the “AP Cost to Fire” for each unit type. The effect is 
that Self-propelled Guns have to expend a separate pivoting action in 
order to fire outside of their arcs. 
15.5 Open Topped Vehicles 
Open topped vehicles have a white box with red border 
around their blue flank DR. This blue DR acts as a 
red DR when attacked by artillery, mortar fire, 
 high 
explosive weapon cards or CC attacks by foot units. 
These attack open topped vehicles with their red FP. 
Ex: The PzJg 35R has a red 13DR if attacked by a 
Soviet Rifle unit in CC. (Tank hunter units may still attack with blue FP.)
Designer’s Note: Many self-propelled guns had open tops and 
rear sections, which made them very vulnerable to hand grenades, 
artillery shrapnel, and other incoming flank fire.
15.6 Vehicles as Cover
Vehicles offer +1DM cover to all friendly non-transported unburdened 
foot units in the same hex. The foot units do not have to move 
cautiously when group moving with these vehicles.
Ex: A Rifle unit and a tank group move towards an enemy 
position. The Rifle unit is not being transported, so it is placed under 
the tank as they move forward and receives a +1DM from the tank.
16.0 Trucks and Wagons 
Trucks and wagons represent vehicles 
designed to move other units and 
supplies over road systems. Trucks and 
wagons utilize green movement making 
them good for roads. 
Trucks have a -2FP and a range of 
0, so they may attempt feeble CC attacks. Wagons may never attack. 
Trucks and wagons may not claim victory hexes.
Destroyed truck and wagon counters do not adjust the CAP 
track, but do count for VP scoring.
16.1 Armored Personnel Carriers (APC)
APC units represent vehicles designed to transport and 
protect other units. All units transported by an APC with 
a +2 red shield +2 receive a +2DM. Towed guns and 
mortar units also receive this bonus, since the gun crew 
rides in the APC. All other transportation rules apply.
Incoming fire is resolved simultaneously against 
the APC and any units being transported. Attacks are still rolled 
individually for each unit. If the APC is destroyed, transported units 
still receive the APC’s +2DM for that attack. 
17.0 Loading, Transporting, and Unloading Units
All vehicles may transport either one foot unit or pull one gun. 
(Exception: Vehicles may transport both a German Rifle and LMG, 
since these units historically comprised one squad.) 
A vehicle must be in the same hex as a unit in order for it to 
load. The loading unit then pays its open terrain movement cost to 
load onto or limber to the truck with a group action. The unit counter is 
placed on top of the vehicle counter, facing the same direction. 
Transported units receive no vehicle cover from the vehicle 
transporting them (exception - 16.1 APCs). A vehicle and its 
transported unit take group movement actions to move and pay the 
vehicle's movement cost only. A vehicle does not suffer a movement 
penalty for moving while loaded and all movement bonuses apply.
A unit being transported may not fire.
To unload, a transported unit must pay its open terrain movement 
cost with a group action. The unloaded unit is now placed under the 
vehicle facing any direction. 
Ex: Figure 28. German Turn: A 251 APC transporting (towing) a 
PaK38 gun group moves three open hexes for 1AP. 
Next German Turn: The 251 moves forward only one hex for 1AP. 
Next German Turn: The 251 unloads the PaK38 for 4APs. 
Figure 28
4 APs to 
unload
1 AP 
1 AP 
1 AP to move + 2 
bonus 
 moves

Fortifications
Next German Turn: The 251 moves on to the west after which both 
the gun and the 251 are marked as spent. 
New Ex: Figure 28. The 251 APC towed the PaK38 gun in the 
previous round, but ran out of APs before it could unload the gun. 
This round the German begins by unloading the PaK38 for 4CAPs. 
The PaK38 and the 251 APC remain fresh since they unloaded with a 
command action. On his next turn, the German activates the APC and 
begins to take actions with it. The PaK38 remains 
fresh and may still be activated later in the round.
Ex: Figure 29. A German 251 APC transporting 
a Rifle moves next to a Soviet Rifle for 1AP. 
Next German Turn: The APC fires point blank for 
2APs, hitting the Soviet. 
Next German Turn: The Rifle unloads for 1AP. 
Next German Turn: For 2APs, the Germans group 
fire (9.1.2) at the Soviet with a 7AV (3FP for the 251 
APC + 1FP for the Rifle group fire + 3FP for short 
range bonus (7.7.2)). 
17.1 Firing at Transported Units 
Incoming fire is resolved simultaneously against a vehicle and the 
flank DRs of any transported units. Attacks are rolled individually for 
each unit. Both the vehicle and the transported unit receive the hex’s 
terrain modifier. If a transporting vehicle is destroyed, any surviving 
unit is placed on the map facing the same way the vehicle was facing 
when destroyed. Transported units do not receive extra damage if the 
vehicle is destroyed. 
Ex: Figure 30. German Turn: 
The German 251/1 APC, 
transporting a Rifle unit, group 
moves from the south. The units 
have 6APs left in their shared 
activation (9.0). 
Soviet Turn: The Soviet 45mm 
ATG activates and pays 3APs 
to simultaneously attack the 
APC and Rifle. The ATG has 
a blue 6FP vs the APCs blue 
13DV and so needs a 7 to hit 
(13DV-6FP) and an 11 to kill. 
It rolls an 11 and destroys the 
APC. The German player places 
the destroyed unit counter on its 
CAP track. Next the 45mm ATG resolves its attack against the Rifle. 
The ATG has a 3FP vs the Rifle’s 13DV (11 flank DR + 2DM from the 
APC) and misses. 
German Turn: Figure 31. The 
Rifle moves into the wooden 
building for 2APs.
Soviet Turn: The ATG fires at 
the PzIIIh for 3APs with a blue 
7FP vs the tank’s 17DV and 
misses. It has 1AP left on its AP 
track.
German Turn: The Rifle moves 
into the hex occupied by the ATG 
using cautious movement for 
2APs.
Soviet Turn: The ATG could fire 
at the German infantry in CC, 
but its red FP is surrounded by 
a white box, which denotes its -2FP CC penalty. The adjacent Soviet 
SMG could fire into the hex, but it might hit the ATG as well. So the 
Soviet player decides to spend 
the ATG and activate the SMG, 
counting its track marker to 7APs. 
The SMG moves cautiously into 
the CC hex for 2APs. 
German Turn: Figure 32. The 
German can now CC one 
(7.7.3) of the two Soviet units 
and decides to fire at the SMG, 
since it poses a greater threat. 
He spends his last 2APs, plus 
1CAP. The German has a red 
6FP vs the SMG’s 11 flank DV. 
He needs ≥ 5 to hit and ≥ 9 to 
kill. He rolls a 6 and the Soviet 
draws a suppression hit marker. Usually the hit result would be kept 
secret and the marker placed face down.
Soviet Turn: The SMG cannot rally when it is in the same hex as an 
enemy unit, so it decides to fire at the German infantry with a red 6FP 
(4FP +4 close combat bonus -2 suppression penalty) vs the German’s 
11DV. The Soviet needs ≥ 5 to hit and ≥ 9 to kill. He will modify his 
roll with 1CAP and now needs ≥ 4 to hit and ≥ 8 to kill. He scores a 9 
and the German Rifle is removed from the game and is placed on the 
German player’s CAP track. 
You are now ready to play Firefight 4.
Section 5
This section introduces Fortifications and Obstacles. 
18.0 Fortifications and Obstacles
Fortifications include trenches, bunkers and hasty defenses. 
Obstacles include barbed wire, road blocks, and land mines. All are 
represented by counters placed on the map. No more than 1 of each 
type of fortification or obstacle may be in a hex, except for hasty 
defenses.
Fortifications and obstacles do not block LOS.
18.1 Fortifications - Trenches, Bunkers and Hasty 	
 	
 Defenses
Firefights begin with trench and bunker counters on the map. They 
may not be built during the course of a game unless specified by the 
firefight. 
Units occupying a fortification are placed under the counter and 
receive the cumulative benefit of the terrain DM and the fortification 
DM +? . The fortification DM is located in the bottom right corner of 
the fortification counter. 
18.1.1 Trenches may be occupied by unburdened foot 
units and all mortars, but not vehicles or guns. Wheeled 
vehicles are not allowed 
 into trench hexes. A trench 
negates open terrain bonus movement 
Units in trenches may face and fire in any direction 
and receive a black +2DM from all directions. Black 
DMs are effective against both blue and red FP attacks. 
An unlimited number of units may be placed under a trench. 
18.1.2 Bunkers may be occupied by unburdened foot 
units, anti-tank guns, and field guns. Mortars may not 
fire from inside of a bunker. Bunkers have a red facing, 
so may not pivot during the game. Units in a bunker 
face the same direction as the bunker. 
Enemy units outside of a bunker’s arc of fire can 
fire at units in the bunker, but units in the bunker cannot fire at targets 
outside of the bunker’s arc of fire. An unlimited number of units may 
be placed in a bunker. 
Bunkers have black front and flank defense modifiers listed in 
the shield symbols. These black DMs are effective against both blue 
and red FP attacks. The smaller number represents the bunker’s flank 
DM against fire originating from the bunker’s flank, artillery/mortar and 
close combat attacks. 
Ex: The Soviet Rifle unit receives a +5DM to its 
front 12DR for a total 17DV against direct frontal fire. If 
this Rifle were fired on from the bunker’s flank, it would 
have a red 14DV (11DR + 3DM for the bunker’s flank 
defense modifier). 
18.1.3 Hasty Defense counters represent a hastily 
fortified position which may be placed in any terrain 
expect water. A hasty defense may be prepared by 
any foot unit as an action by paying 7APs or by 
playing an action card. Ex: Card 02 or 11. 
A hasty defense counter is placed over the unit 
that prepared it and the unit receives a black +1DM from all directions. 
A hasty defense counter may only be occupied by the unit that 
prepared it and is removed if that unit pivots, moves, or is destroyed. 
Multiple hasty defenses may be prepared by multiple units in a 
hex, but only one hasty defense may be placed on each individual unit. 
Players may prepare as many hasty defenses as there are 
counters available in the game. 
18.2 Occupying and Exiting Trenches and Bunkers
Units may occupy empty or friendly fortifications when moving into a 
hex at no additional cost. In CC, fortifications benefit defending units only. 
Units may exit a fortification at no additional cost if part of a movement 
Figure 29
Figure 30
Figure 31
Figure 32

Hindrances
18.4 Fortification and Obstacle Destruction
Fortifications and obstacles with a red number in the bottom right 
hand corner of their counters can be destroyed by mortar fire, artillery 
fire, red tank and gun FP (no MG fire) or CC foot unit attacks. The DR 
of a fortification or obstacle is modified by any terrain DM, including 
woods, buildings and smoke. When a fortification or obstacle is hit, it 
is removed from the game.
Attacks are resolved simultaneously (but rolled individually) 
against the target unit(s) and the fortification or obstacle. If a 
fortification is destroyed, units inside of it still receive the fortification’s 
DM for that turn’s attack.
Units in fortifications defend with their flank defense against 
flank, artillery/mortar, and CC attacks as normal. 
A player may attack an empty fortification or obstacle, in an 
attempt to destroy it.
Ex: Soviet artillery with a red 6FP fires at 2 Rifle units in a bunker 
with a 16DV and a black 3 flank DM. The artillery rolls a 10 for a total 
16AV and the bunker counter is removed. The Soviet rolls a 13AV 
against the first Rifle’s 14DV (11 flank DR +3DM from the bunker) and 
misses. For the second Rifle unit, the Soviet rolls a 12AV and misses. 
You are now ready to play Firefight 5.
Section 6
This section introduces special units and rules for playing with more 
than 2 players. 
19.0 Pioneers
Pioneers were specially trained units outfitted to 
assault enemy positions. Pioneers behave exactly like 
other infantry units, except for the following abilities: 
•	 Pioneers reveal hidden mines when moved on, but 
do not trigger an attack from them.
•	 Pioneers can fire +2DM smoke up to 1 hex distance for 2APs.
•	 Pioneers have flamethrower capabilities with a range of 1 (19.1). 
19.1 Flamethrowers 
Certain tanks and pioneers have flamethrower 
capabilities and are marked with a flame symbol 
. 
These units may choose to fire at their normal FP 
capabilities and ranges, or they can choose to use 
their flamethrower. All flamethrowers fire with a red or 
blue 2FP and have a maximum range of 1 (no long 
range fire is allowed). Short range and CC FP modifiers 
apply. Flamethrowers always fire against a defender’s 
flank DR and all defense modifiers are ignored. 
Hull mounted 
 flamethrowers fire in the front arc 
only, turret mounted 
 flamethrowers can fire outside 
of their arc for an additional 1AP. 
20.0 Three to Four Player Games
Some firefights are designed for more than 2 players. Each player 
has his own track sheet and force to command. Players decide at 
the beginning of the game if turn order alternates between sides (Ex: 
German 1, then Soviet 1, then German 2, then Soviet 2) or if all players 
from one side simultaneously take their turns (Ex: German 1 and 2, 
then Soviet 1 and 2). 
Players roll for initiative individually at the beginning of a round 
with the high roller or high roller side taking the first action(s). Players 
may also decide to take turn order from highest to lowest initiative roll. 
When all but 1 player pass consecutively, the round ends.
Ex: Soviet 1 passes, German 1 takes an action, Soviet 2 passes, 
German 2 passes. If Soviet 1 now passes, the round is over.
Cards may not be traded between allied players.
Victory conditions are awarded to the player that moves onto a 
victory hex first, etc. Players of a side may decide to play the game 
for an individual win or as a group win.
20.1 Two Players Playing a Three or Four Player Game 
When two players play a firefight designed for four, they may 
consolidate each side's forces into one. This includes consolidating all 
CAP's, minus one, onto one track sheet and drawing and combining 
the cards for both factions into one hand. The player controls all units 
of both forces and may activate the units in any order that he wishes. 
Ex: A player controls two German forces. The first force receives 
7CAPs and the second 6CAPs. The single player may consolidate 
12 CAPs on a single track sheet and use them as he wishes. He also 
draws all cards for both forces, using them as he wishes. 
If three players are playing a four player game, we do not 
recommend that any of the forces be consolidated.
action out of the hex. Units may exit a fortification without leaving the 
hex by paying their normal movement cost for that hex. A unit in a hex 
that wishes to reenter a fortification pays its normal movement cost 
Ex: A LMG in a bunker on an open hex is being outflanked. As its 
action it pays 1AP to exit the bunker and may then face any direction.
18.3 Obstacles - Barbed Wire, Road Blocks and Mines
18.3.1 Barbed Wire counters affect units that want 
to move into the hex from any direction. Wheeled 
vehicles may not enter 
 a wire hex. Wire negates 
open terrain bonus movement 
Foot units pay a random extra +1D6 movement 
penalty 
+
 for moving into a wire hex. To move 
into a wire hex, foot units:
1. Announce their intent to move into the wire hex. 
2. Roll 1D6 to determine a movement penalty cost. 
3. Add this movement penalty to the normal terrain movement cost for 
that hex.
If after rolling for the penalty cost an activated unit does not have 
enough APs/CAPs to move into the wire hex or if the player does not 
wish to pay the additional APs/CAPs to move into the hex, the unit 
loses all of its remaining APs. This attempt counts as an action. The 
unit may still take further CAP or card actions on later turns. 
Ex: A German Rifle unit occupies a clear hex with a wire counter 
on it. A Soviet Rifle unit wishes to move into the German hex in order 
to initiate close combat. The Soviet has 4APs and 2CAPs left. He 
states his intent, rolls 1D6 for a 4 and so must pay 5APs total to move 
into the wire hex with the German (the 4 rolled + 1AP open terrain 
movement cost). The Soviet may either pay 4APs + 1CAP to move in 
or not move in and lose his remaining 4APs.
Wire counters are automatically destroyed and removed when a 
tracked unit moves into the hex or when fired upon (18.4).
Wire may be placed only during setup, unless specified by the 
firefight. 
Artillery and mortar fire is resolved simultaneously against the 
wire and any other units in the hex. 
18.3.2 Road Blocks affect vehicles that want to 
move into the hex from any direction. Road blocks 
do not affect foot units. Wheeled green units may not 
enter 
 a road block hex. Tracked vehicles that wish 
to move into a road block hex must: 
1. Announce their intent to move into the road block 
hex.
2. Roll 1D6 to determine a movement penalty cost.
3. Add the movement penalty to the normal terrain movement cost.
If after rolling for the penalty cost, an activated unit does not 
have enough APs/CAPs to move into the road block hex or if the 
player does not wish to pay the additional APs/CAPs to move into the 
hex, the unit loses all of its remaining APs and is marked as spent. 
This attempt counts as an action. This unit is not restricted from 
taking CAP or card actions later in the round. 
Road blocks may be placed only during setup, unless specified 
by the firefight. 
Road blocks do not block LOS and add +1DM for all units.
18.3.3 Land Mines may be placed on any hex, 
openly or hidden, as specified by the firefight. If a unit 
moves onto a hidden mine, a mine counter is placed 
in that hex. Mines attack enemy or friendly units 
immediately after the units move into a mined hex or 
take any action other than firing, rallying, or spotting 
for artillery. Units moving out of a mine hex are not 
affected by the mines. If a new unit moves into a mined hex with an 
existing unit in it, only the new unit is affected by the mine attack. 
- Mines included with this game have a black attack number, thus 	
 explode against all foot and vehicle units. 
When an enemy unit moves onto a mine, the mine owner rolls 2D6, 
which may be modified with CAPs. On a 2D6 result equal to or 
greater than eight 
_ 8
>
, the unit is hit. 
Terrain and fortification DMs do not affect mine attacks.
Ex: A player decides to modify his dice roll with 2CAPs. He now 
needs to roll a 6 or higher to hit. 

Solitaire Play
20.2 Solitaire Play
The following rules are a guideline on how a solo player plays 
opposing (AI - Artificial Intelligence) units. The solo player should 
always play the attacking force. The solo player still takes actions for 
the opposition forces, but is constrained by the AI doctrines described 
below. When solitaire firefights are played with two players, normal 
rules supersede these Solitaire Rules. 
Initiative - At the beginning of each round roll 1D6. The opposition 
wins initiative on 1, 2, 3, or 4, the player wins on 5 or 6. 
Activation 
An AI unit will only activate if it has an enemy unit in its LOS. 
Movement Doctrine 
- AI units are more likely to pull back towards their game objectives 
than to advance away from them. 
- AI units will not attempt to move into an enemy occupied hex, unless 
it is one of their objective hexes. If the solo player thinks that the AI 
units need to attack a hex anyway, he rolls 1D6. Only if a “1, 2, 3, or 
4” is rolled will the AI unit complete the move. 
Pivoting - An AI unit will pivot towards a threat that is outside of its 
arc of fire (AoF) in the following order of importance:
- If the enemy unit is in an adjacent hex. 
- If fired upon and there is no closer threat within LOS. 
- If a threat is in range that would require a 9 or less to hit and there is 
no closer threat in LOS. 
Fire Doctrine 
- AI units will only fire at enemy units that are in normal range and that 
can be hit on an unmodified 2D6 roll of 10 or less. 
- AI units will fire at the enemy unit that is the easiest to hit.
CAP Usage - Give the AI opposition 20% more CAPs than listed 
in the firefight setup, rounding up. The preferred use of CAPs is to 
modify an AI unit’s attack value (AV). The number of CAPs spent to 
modify an AI unit’s AV is determined by the result of a 1D6 roll.
- On a 1 or 2, the AI unit’s attack is modified by 2 CAPs. 
- On a 3 or 4, the AI unit’s attack is modified by 1 CAP. 
- On a 5 or 6, the AI unit does not modify the attack dice roll. 
The AI will use as many CAPs as it has left in order to fulfill the 
requirements above. 
Ex: An AI Soviet Rifle has a clear LOS to a normal moving 
German Rifle. The Soviet AI Rifle will fire because it only needs an 
8 to hit (3AV vs a 12DR - 1 normal move penalty). The Soviet AI has 
1CAP left on its CAPs track and so rolls a 1D6 to see if the AI Rifle’s 
attack will be modified with CAPs. The AI rolls a 1 for its attack dice roll 
modifier check and will modify the attack with its remaining 1CAP, since 
that is all the remaining CAPs left. The AI now needs a 7 dice roll to hit 
the German unit (3FP +1CAP = 4AV vs an 11DV). 
AI Soviet units may fire into enemy hexes, even if that hex contains 
other Soviet units.
Augment APs with CAPs to Fire Again - 
If an AI unit can hit a target on an unmodified 2D6 roll of 9 or less, it 
will use up to one CAP, if needed, to augment its APs to fire again. 
 Ex: An activated AI unit’s cost to fire is 4APs, but it has only 3APs 
remaining. The AI will add 1 CAP in order to fire again. 
 Ex: The activated AI unit’s cost to fire is 4APs, but it has only 2 
APs remaining. It will not fire again. 
Rallying - A hit AI unit will always rally before firing, unless an enemy 
unit can be attacked and hit on an unmodified 2D6 roll of 8 or less. 
Common Sense - Unforeseen situations may arise and the solo 
player should react with the AI units in a way that is in the AI unit's 
best interest. This means that some of the doctrines above may be 
modified or broken in certain situations. When playing solitaire, it is 
recommended that you use the Variable APs optional rule (3.0.1). 
20.3 Hidden AI Units for Solitaire Play 
For each hidden AI unit called for in a firefight, mark two hexes that 
are likely hiding spots on the map with pennies. Place the hidden AI 
unit counter in a cup, along with a dummy counter (any counter not 
being used in the game). When a hidden AI unit position is activated 
(as dictated by the firefight), the player pulls a counter randomly from 
the cup to see if a AI unit is actually there. If the counter pulled is a 
dummy counter, the spot was a decoy and the dummy counter and 
penny are discarded and play continues. 
Ex: Two AI units may be hidden at the beginning of a game. The 
player chooses and marks 4 hexes with pennies and places the two 
AI units and two dummy (misc.) counters into a cup. 
Designer’s Notes: Modern day tactics employed by most of today’s 
advanced armies find their roots in early WWII doctrine. The tactics 
employed evolved (and sometimes slipped) throughout the conflicts 
and wars that followed in Korea, Vietnam, Bosnia, Afghanistan, and 
Iraq. I designed CoH to follow this evolution in tactics in a series of 
games, the first of which is Awakening the Bear! Russia 1941-42. The 
system is a fast and fluid playing board game that is easy to learn, but 
tactically realistic for every unique time period portrayed. 
In developing any new system, there is the temptation to add 
more and more rules in an attempt to make the game more “realistic”. 
Unfortunately, this often can have the opposite effect as the big 
picture becomes lost in a forest of heavy detail. I wanted the system 
to stress the flow of battle and quick reaction to adversities and 
opportunities. It had to contain just the right level of abstraction so 
more time could be spent fighting the opponent and exploring unique 
tactics than fighting the rules. Staying true to these goals was quite 
challenging as the developers constantly came up with new ideas. In 
the end, we relied on a rule of thumb that required a proposed rule 
to apply in more than 10% of relevant situations and add important 
period flavor to be included in the game. We operated under the belief 
that mountains of detail do not make a good game; a clean and easily 
implemented core system does. 
How we decided to portray command structure in the game is an 
example of our efforts to make core game play elements as robust 
and easy to use as possible. Command structure is the all important 
force that keeps units together in the face of brutality. In CoH, the 
probabilities of successful attacks were purposefully calculated to 
make hits very difficult without CAP modifications. Often, Soviet 
peasant units were handed rifles (if they were lucky) and pushed 
towards a battle without training. They were very brave, but just did 
not know what to do tactically when confronted by a German MG 
nest. So in this case, they would not start a firefight with many CAPs. 
This highlights the incredible importance a good command structure 
played. Therefore, successful play is dependent on management of 
CAPs. Carefully designed systems like these subtly affect game play 
tactics and are the backbone of Conflict of Heroes.
The CoH rules system has been finely tuned, but one cannot 
foresee all possibilities in a game with so many variables. If there is 
a disagreement in the rule interpretations, use common sense and 
come to a friendly agreement on how to resolve the situation with the 
other player. 
The series will be expanded to cover other WWII theaters and 
other conflicts such as Vietnam and Iraq. It will also include rules for 
airplanes, boats, paratroopers, and much more. 
So find some friends, set up a game, and have fun!
Uwe Eickert 
Special thanks to the following people who helped in the development 
of the game. I appreciate the numerous ideas, hours of historical 
research, and stimulating discussions.
Game and firefight developments: Gunter Eickert, Dave Kimmel 
Rules editing: Kai von der Aa, James Palmer, Jim Toland 
Original cover artwork: Stephen Paschal (www.stephenpaschal.com) 
Counter and card art: Pavlos Germidis Maps: Pat Ward
Statistics: Andreas Büttenbender, Jon Pehrson
Special thanks to the following people who helped during the development 
of the game series: Grady Brecheisen, Jose Luis Vilar Benet, Łukasz 
Biernat, Jacob Cassens, Josh Christensen, Steven Duke, William 
Eastwood, Grant Eldridge, Steven Erikson, Mike Gladniuk, Dean 
Halley, Michael Hekel, Kyle Knauman, Jesse LeBreton, Russell Marsh, 
John McLintock, Stan Myszak, Wojciech Pawlus, Bruno Savaresse, 
Brian Sturk, Kevan Sumner, Michael Vinarcik, Norbert Westenberg, 
Thomas Witham
Rolf Werner for his many hours of storytelling, for giving me his 
wartime journal, and for the poem he wrote and lived through on the 
last page. Rest in peace Rolf.
To my father Ari Eickert for initiating my interest in history during our 
long dinner table discussions. They no longer are as heated or as 
long, since we can now prove (or disprove) each other’s points too 
easily with the Internet! 
The latest rules version, video rules, Q&A, additional free firefights, and 
much more can be found online at www.Academy-Games.com
Online forums for quick answers about Awakening the Bear: 
www.boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/24800 or 
https://www.facebook.com/groups/44778571393/

Card Descriptions
Take one free action of 
any cost with any unit.
Command Action
One Free Action
Command Action (x13) Card #02
Any unit or group may execute any 
one action at 0 cost. 
Follow Me! (x3) Card #03
Any unit or group may immediately 
rally. Certain vehicle hit counters 
have no rally option and thus may 
not use this card. 
Attempt to rally a unit 
not in close combat. 
Rally Up!
One Rally Attempt
Rally Up! (x3) Card #04
Any unit or group may roll to attempt 
to rally. Each attempt must be rolled 
separately.
Move one of your units 
2 hexes over terrain 
passable for this unit.
Rapid Deployment
Move 2 Hexes
Rapid Deployment (x2) Card #05
Any unit or group, including hidden 
ones, may move up to 2 hexes 
at no cost. May not be used on 
immobilised, pinned, or stunned 
units. Intervening mines affect the 
moving unit. Unit may not move into 
prohibited hexes.
Mark any one enemy 
unit as spent.
Battlefield Confusion
Mark as Spent
Battlefield Confusion (x2) Card #06 
Flip any one enemy unit to its spent 
side. The affected unit may no longer 
activate or use APs for the remainder 
of the round. It may use CAPs and 
cards. This card may not be played 
on a group or off-board units, but 
may be played on hidden units. 
Add 1D6 to an 
activated unit’s APs.
Experienced Sergeant
+1D6 APs
Experienced Sergeant (x2) Card #07
An activated unit rolls 1D6 for 
additional APs that are added to the 
unit’s AP track. The AP total may 
now be temporarily higher than the 
number of APs the unit activated with. 
Cost: 2 APs
An activated unit may roll 
1D6 and add its result to 
the CAPs track for use this 
Frontline Officer
+1D6 CAPs
Frontline Officer (x2) Card #08
Roll 1D6 for additional CAPs and add 
them to the CAP track. These CAPs 
are added one time only and may 
temporarily push the CAP total over 
the firefight’s starting CAP number. 
Place a hasty defense counter 
over any unit not engaged in 
close combat.
Seek Cover!
Hasty Defense
Seek Cover! (x2) Card #11
A hasty defense counter(s) may 
be placed on any fresh, activated 
or spent unit or group (including 
vehicles). Hasty Defense may not be 
placed on a unit in CC. 
Action Cards must be played during a player’s turn. Playing an action card constitutes an action. Cards paid for with APs must be played on the 
activated unit or group that paid for it. Cards with no cost or those that are paid with CAPs only may be played on any unit. 
Roll 1D6. Opponent loses 
CAPs this round equal to the 
die result: 
1 =0 CAPs, 2 thru 3 =1 CAPs, 
4 thru 5 =2 CAPs, 6 =3 CAPs.
Sniper Fire
CAP Loss
Sniper Fire (x3) Card #13
Opponent loses CAPs immediately for 
this round only:
Roll 1 = 0CAPs Roll 2-3 = 1CAP
Roll 4-5 = 2CAPs Roll 6 = 3CAPs 
Immobilize an opponent’s 
vehicle for the rest of the 
Bogged Down
Immobilize Vehicle
Bogged Down (x1) Card #20
Immobilize any one fresh or spent 
enemy vehicle. The immobilization 
counter is removed at round’s end. 
This Card may not be played on a 
group.
Cost: 1 AP/CAP
Reveal all hidden enemy units 
within 2 hexes and in the LOS 
of the designated unit.
Scout Teams
Reveal Enemy
Scout Teams (x1) Card #30
Choose any one of your units. Your 
opponent must reveal all hidden units 
that are within 2 hexes and within the 
LOS of the unit you chose.
Cost: 1 AP/CAP
Place a land mine counter 
within one hex of an un-hit 
friendly unit not in close 
combat.
Mine-Laying
Place Mine
Mine-Laying (x1) Card #40
Any one fresh, activated or spent 
unburdened foot unit may lay an 
available mine on its own or adjacent 
hex, but not on an enemy occupied hex. 
The mine may be placed as hidden if 
out of enemy LOS. Cannot be placed by 
units in CC.
Remove an obstacle from 
a hex containing an un-hit 
friendly unit that is not in 
close combat.
Obstacle-Clearing
Wire, Roadblocks, Mines
Obstacle-Clearing (x1) Card #41
Any fresh, activated or spent 
unburdened foot unit may remove 
one obstacle counter from its own hex. 
Obstacles include Barbed Wire, Road 
Blocks and Land Mines. Cannot be 
played if in CC or by a group.
 
 Action Cards
use grenades as an action.
Grenades
Stielhandgranate m24
Grenades (x1)
• German foot units may use this card 
to attack as an action at 0 cost.
• May be used at 1 range with a -2FP 
penalty (long range).
• No CC modifiers at 0 range.
• May support a firegroup.
• Terrain modifiers apply.
Molotov Cocktail
Petrol Bomb
use a Molotov as an action. 
Molotov Cocktail (x1)
• Soviet foot units use this card to at-
tack as an action at 0 cost. 
• May be used at 1 range with a -2FP 
penalty (long range). 
• No CC modifiers at 0 range.
• May support a firegroup. 
• Terrain modifiers apply. 
use a Tellermine as an action. 
No long range. Close combat 
FP and terrain modifiers do 
not apply. 
Tellermine
Anti-Tank Weapon
Tellermine (x1)
• German foot units use this card to 
attack vehicles as an action at a cost 
of 2AP/CAP. 
• May only be used at 0 range.
• May not be part of a firegroup. 
• All DM and CC modifiers do not apply.
Tellermines may also be placed as a land mine 
within one hex of a unit’s position. The same rules 
apply as for the Lay Land Mine card #40.
 Weapon Cards
 Bonus Cards
Weapon Cards are played as an action or in support of a group action. Off-board artillery cards are 
played and resolved during the pre-round sequence (2.0). 
Event Cards are played immediately when 
drawn at the beginning of a round. The player 
then draws a new card. 
Playing a Bonus Card does not constitute an action. Bonus cards may be played in conjunction with 
another action or as described below. 
Both players total and score 
mid-game victory points. 
After playing this card, 
draw a new card.
Score
Objectives are specified
in the firefight setup.
Objective #1
Resolve firefight event,
then draw a new card.
Firefight Event
Score (x1)
A firefight will dictate if the score card 
is mixed into the card deck. When 
pulled, follow the scoring instructions 
set by the firefight. Pull a new card 
after the scoring is resolved.
Objective 1 - 4 (x4)
Objective cards are shuffled and 
one is drawn randomly. This card 
usually defines a player’s secret 
objective for the game. The card is 
revealed at game’s end.
Firefight Event (x1)
The event card is sometimes 
mixed into the card deck and when 
pulled triggers an event set by the 
firefight. Draw a new card after the 
event is resolved.
Game Ends (x1)
This card is sometimes mixed into 
the card deck and when pulled 
ends the game.
The game ends immediately!
Both players add up their 
victory points.
Halt Order
Game Ends
Off-Board Artillery (OBA) 
- OBA represent off-board resources available to 
the players as set by a firefight. 
- A player must note if he will use smoke when 
targeting in the pre-round sequence. 
- The affected target hex patterns are printed on 
each card.
- OBA attacks a target’s flank defense. 
- Terrain modifiers apply except for heavy woods 
(see Air Bursts 12.2).
German Off-Board Artillery (x1) 
10.5cm leFH18 Light Howitzer
Soviet Off-Board Artillery (x1) 
122mm m.38 Field Howitzer
122mm Howitzer m38
10,5cm Howitzer 18
 Event Cards
Careful Aiming (x2) Card #09
Playing this card increases a player's 
FP by 2. Playing this card does not 
constitute an action. This card may 
be used by a group. 
Take two turns in a row, 
skipping an opponent’s 
turn. Play this card during 
the first turn.
Swift Action
Take Extra Turn
Swift Action (x2) Card #10
A player may take two consecutive 
actions, skipping an opponent’s turn. 
Playing this card does not constitute 
an action. A player must announce 
the use of this card before his first 
action is taken. This card may be 
used by a group.
After any die roll, a player 
may attempt to modify the 
result by rolling 1D6.
Result: 1 =-3, 2 thru 6 =+2.
Luck!
Modify Die Roll
Luck (x3) Card #12
A player may play this card in an 
attempt to modify his own dice roll 
result. Playing this card does not 
constitute an action and may be 
played during a player’s turn after a 
roll has been made. 

Unit Descriptions
Unit Counters from Awakening the Bear 2nd Edition
3 Rifle ‘41 1-1
Rifle ‘41 Unit x8 39-45
Seven men and officers armed with 
rifles and some sub-machine guns. A squad 
included a LMG 34 unit below.
LMG34 1-1
LMG 34 - Belt Fed x7 39-45
With the 200 round belt-fed ammo, the 
LMG 34 became the classic infantry 
medium support weapon. 
HMG34
HMG 34 x2 39-43
A LMG 34 mounted on a tripod made the 
MG very lethal and accurate.
2-10
5cm Mortar
Mortar 5cm x2 39-42
The 5cm light mortar proved to be 
underpowered and was later supplanted 
by the 8cm mortar.
3-16
(4)
8cm Mortar
Mortar 8cm x2 39-45
Three man crews manned these mortars 
which could fire indirectly. They replaced 
the 5cm mortars. 
Pioneer Squad x3 39-45
Specially trained squads of 8-10 men 
that assaulted fortified positions, laid 
mines and set traps.
Tank Hunters
Tank Hunters x1 39-42
Two man teams trained to assault tanks with 
bundled grenades (Geballte Ladung), mines 
and other improvized explosives.
3 7,5cm leIG18
7.5cm Inf Gun x2 39-45 
The short barrel leIG 18 light infantry gun 
was used for close infantry support against 
soft targets and fired high-explosive shells.
3 7,62cm FK 297
7.62cm FK 297 x1 41-43 
To stop the T-34 and KV-1, the Germans 
used many captured soviet guns, here the 
un-modified F-22 USV M39 AT gun.
2 3,7cm PaK36
PaK36 x2 39-42 
The Germans were totally unprepared for 
the Soviet T-34 tank and the PaK36 3.7cm 
shells literally bounced off of its armor.
5cm PaK38
PaK38 x2 41-45 
This 5cm AT gun was too weak against 
the heavily armed T-34 and KV tanks and 
was useful only at short ranges. 
3 88mm Flak18
FlaK18 88mm x1 39-45
This anti-air gun was converted into one of 
the most effective anti-tank guns of 
the war. It could penetrate any armor.
Wagon
Wagons x3 39-45
A majority of both armies were supplied by 
horse drawn wagons. Wagons outnumbered 
all other vehicles combined.
Opel Blitz
Truck/Opel x2 39-45
The German army was lucky to have 
trucks when available. Most supplies 
were still transported by wagons. 
3 Demag PaK38
DeMag D7 x1 41-42
A standard PaK38 5cm AT gun mounted 
on a light half-track chassis. Sometimes 
improvised armor was added to the front.
2 Protze PaK36
Protze PaK36 x1 41-42
Many Panzerjäger units mounted the Pak36 
3.7cm AT gun directly on trucks, to increase 
its mobility.
SdKfz 251/1
SdKfz 251/1 APC x2 39-45 
Heavy duty armored troop transporter that 
could keep up with tanks. Armed with two 
mounted LMG 34s.
SdKfz 232 L
SdKfz 232L x1 39-45
A heavy 8-wheel reconnaissance car armed 
with a 2cm L55 autocannon. This is the late 
version with spaced armor front shield.
PzJg 35R(f)
PzJg 35R x1 41-44
A disappointing replacement for the 
Panzerjäger I, this tank-destroyer was fitted 
with a Czech 47mm gun atop of a captured 
R35 French tank.
Listed below are the unit names, number supplied in the game, years in active service and descriptions. Players that wish to create their own firefights can download a unit 
point cost list from our website. Designer's Note: Unit stats and abilities were calculated based on how they preformed historically relative to each other during a specific time 
period. Fans of the series will notice that a unit's (relative) stats in different games often change as the war progresses. 
Pz 38(t) E
Panzer 38t x1 39-42
This Czech tank with a 3.7cm L48 gun was 
slated to be a main battle tank, but proved to 
be vulnerable and underpowered. 
Pz II F
Panzer IIf x3 40-43
This reconnaissance tank was similar 
to the PzIIc, but had added armor.
Pz III E
Panzer IIIe x2 39-41
Intended to be the main German battle 
tank, the puny 3.7cm gun proved to be 
useless against most Soviet tanks.
Pz III H
Panzer IIIh x1 41-42
Pz IIIe tanks were retrofitted with 5cm guns 
and much thicker armor to protect against 
the T-34 tank.
Pz IIIj #1
Panzer IIIj x1 42-43
In an attempt to counter the devastating 
T-34, this upgraded tank was already 
obsolete when introduced. 
Pz IV E
Panzer IVe x2 39-43
An infantry support tank that sported a short 
7.5cm L24 gun effective against soft targets.
Pz IV F2 #1
Panzer IVf2 x1 42-43
Upgraded to a 7.5cm anti-tank gun, making 
it the new main battle tank for the Germans, 
replacing the aging PzIIIs.
B-2 (f)
B2(f) Tank x1 42-44
A captured French heavy tank, with its hull-
mounted gun replaced by a flamethrower. 
4 Somua S35(f)
S35(f) Somua Tank x1 41-44
A captured French medium tank with a 47mm 
L42 gun, fitted with radio and cupola. Fought 
with Army Group North as well as in Finland. 
T-34 m40(r)
T-34 Captured Tank x1 41-42
The Germans thrived on captured equipment. 
The captured T-34s were outfitted with radio 
communications. 
Rifle ‘41 1-1
Rifle ‘41 Squad x12 39-41
10 men and officers armed with rifles. 
Though not as tactically trained as the 
Germans, they had greater firepower. 
NKVD 1-1
NKVD Squad x3 39-45
Security troops used for internal ‘order’, as 
well as anti-German fighting. Many fought 
ferociously during 1941. 
3 SMG Rifles 1-1
SMG/Rifle Squad x4 41-42
The Soviets began to supply more men 
with dreaded sub-machine guns. 
By war’s end, 34% of all Soviet hand 
weapons were comprised of SMGs. 
3 Maxim MMG
Maxim MMG Squad x3 39-45 
The model 1910 Maxim was heavy and 
cumbersome, but rugged and reliable.
2-10
50mm Mortar
Mortar 50mm x2 39-42
The 50mm light mortar proved to be too 
underpowered to have any great effect 
on the battlefield.
(4)
82mm Mortar
Mortar 82mm x2 39-45
Most heavily produced Soviet mortar. 
Some had wheels affixed to the base for 
easier movement. Could fire indirectly and 
fire smoke.
3 Inf Gun m27
Inf Gun 76mm x1 39-45
The 76,2mm regimental gun M1927 was a 
soviet infantry support gun, and was issued 
to rifle and cavalry regiments.
3 76mm F22 m36
F22 m36 76mm x1 39-45 
Designed as both an AA and AT gun, it 
had awkward sights and controls. It was 
disappointing in handling and performance.
45mm m37
AT Gun 45mm x2 39-45 
Upgraded from the German PaK36, the 
19-K L43 gun was very versatile, firing 
armor-piercing and high-explosive ammo.
Wagon
Wagons x4 39-45
A majority of both armies were supplied by 
wagons. Wagons outnumbered all other 
vehicles combined.
GAZ Truck
GAZ Trucks x2 39-43
A Ford copy manufactured in Russia, the 
GAZ 2x4 wheel truck was the workhorse for 
the Soviets.
BA-10
BA-10 Armored Car x2 39-43
Used mostly for reconnaissance, the BA-
10 had light armor, good speed, a 45mm 
turreted main gun, and a MG. The most 
produced heavy armored car in the war.
BT-7
BT-7 Light Tank x2 39-43
Lightly armored, the BT-7 was obsolete by 
1941. Its design was a precursor of the 
T-34. 
KV-1 m40
KV1a Heavy Tank x2 40-42
The most powerful serial-made tank at the 
beginning of the war, its thick armor was 
almost impenetrable.
KV-2
KV2a Heavy Tank x1 40-43
The “Tank Buster” provided close support 
for the KV1a. Its main drawback was its 
slooow speed.
OT-26
OT-26 x1 41-42
The soviets mounted a flamethrower on a 
modified m31 T-26 light tank. Short range 
and light armor made the OT-26 vulnerable.
T-26 m39
T-26b Light Tank x4 39-42
Though obsolete by Operation Barbarossa, 
this was the most numerous tank in the 
Soviet army during the first years of the war. 
T-34 m40
T-34a m40 Med Tank x4 40-42
Considered the most successful tank 
series of WWII, it sported well-shaped and 
thick armor, small size and great speed.
T-34 m41
T-34b m41 Med Tank x2 41-43
The gun was upgraded from the T-34a 
and the overall design simplified to make 
manufacturing easier.
T-35
T-35 Heavy Tank x1 39-41
A heavy multi-turret tank, armed with 3 guns 
and 5 MGs. Prone to break down and poorly 
armored, it fought to extinction in 1941.
ZiS-30
ZiS-30 Mobile Art. x1 41-42
Hastily designed tank destroyers made 
by fitting an 57mm gun to a Komsomolets 
tractor - not a good gun platform. The early 
57mm gun had many defects.

Index Table
“Kampf im Osten”
Weit ist der Weg, 
reich und fruchtbar die Erde.
Auf ihren Feldern
hielt Ernte der Tod.
Unteroffizier Rolf Werner 
Im Felde, Russland Sept 1941
“War in the East”
Long is the Way, 
rich and fruitful the Earth.
On her Fields 
Death held its Harvest.
Sergeant Rolf Werner 
In the Field, Russia Sept 1941
Rulebook Chapters
Hills - 10
Mortars & Artillery - 11
Vehicles & Tanks - 12
Fortifications & Obstacles - 14
Card & Unit Descriptions - 17
Game Structure & Turn Progression - 1
Terrain & LOS - 4
Movement - 5
Combat - 6
Cards & Group Actions - 8
Abbreviations
1D6 - 1 Six-sided Die
2D6 - 2 Six-sided Dice
AA - Anti-Air
AoF - Arc of Fire
APs - Action Points
APC - Armored Personnel Carrier
AT Gun - Anti-Tank Gun
AtB - Awakening the Bear
AV - Attack Value 
 (AV = FP + 2D6 + CAPs)
CAPs - Command Action Points
CC - Close Combat
CoH - Conflict of Heroes
DM - Defense Modifier
DR - Defense Rating 
DV - Defense Value 
 (DV = DR + DM)
FP - Firepower
HE - High Explosive
HMG - Heavy Machine Gun
KIA - Killed in Action
L1 - Level 1 Hill
LMG - Light Machine Gun
LOS - Line of Sight
MG - Machine Gun
MMG - Medium Machine Gun
NA - Not Accessible
OBA - Off-Board Artillery
PoH - Price of Honour
Pz - Panzer (German tank)
SMG - Sub-Machine Gun
SoS - Storms of Steel
SPG - Self-propelled Gun 
VP - Victory Point 
Index Table
Action Cards
Action Points (APs)
Actions
Air Burst
Arc of Fire (AoF)
Armor / Tanks
Armored Personnel Carrier
Artillery
Attack Value (AV)
Backwards Move
Barbed Wire
Blind Spots - LOS 
Bonus Cards
Bunkers 
CAP Adjustment
Cards 
Casualties 
Close Combat (CC)
Combat 
Command (CAP) Actions
Control Hex
Cover from Vehicle
Critical Hit 
Defense Rating (DR)
Defense Value (DV) 
 From Mortar Fire
Destroyed Units
Dice Roll Modifier 
Elevation Bonus
Enemy Hexes
Equalize Play
Event Cards
Exiting Game
Facing
Firepower (FP) 
Flame Throwers
Flank Fire 
Foot Units
Fortifications
 Destruction
 Enter & Exit
8.1
12.2
6.1
15.0
16.1
12.3
7.2
5.2
18.3.1
11.4
8.2
18.1.2
8.0
7.7.3
7.0
3.2.2
2.4.1
15.6
7.0
7.1,15.0
7.3
12.1
3.2.3
5.4
3.2.5
8.3
5.6
5.1
7.1,15.0
19.1
7.3
5.0
18.1
18.4
18.2
Exit Game
Game End
Group Actions
 Firing
 Rally
Hasty Defense
Hex Control
Hidden Units
Higher Elevation Bonus
Hills 
Hits / Casualties 
Immobilization 
Initiative
Killed Units
Line of Sight (LOS) 
 Blind Spots 
 Elevation
 Units do not block
Load Unit/Gun
Map Coordinates
Mines 
Mortars
 Backwards
 Cautious
 Foot
 Hidden 
 Vehicle
Multiple Players
Multiple Targets
New Round Initiative
Obstacles
Off-Board Artillery 
Open Topped Vehicles
Opportunity Actions
Pass
Pinned
Pivoting
5.6
2.4
9.1
9.1.2
9.1.1
9.1.3
18.1.3
2.4.1
10.0
11.0
7.5,15.2
14.5
2.1
6.0
11.4
6.0
17.0
1.0
18.3.3
12.0
5.0,14.0
5.2
14.1
5.0.3
5.0
10.1
14.0
20.0
15.1
3.2.4
18.3
12.3
15.5
3.1
7.5
19.0
5.3
Pre-Round Sequence
Rally 
 Long
 Same hex 
 Short 
Reinforcements
Reverse Movement
Road Block
Roads 
 Congestion
Round Progression
Round Sequence
Self-propelled Guns
Setup - Game
Shared Activation
Short Range Fire
Smoke 
Solitaire Play 
Spent Unit
Stacking Limits 
Stall
Steep Terrain
Supplement APs
Towing
Transporting
Trenches
Trucks
Turns
Turreted Units
Unburdened Foot Unit
Unit (AP) Actions
Uphill Bonus
Variable APs
Victory Hex Control
Victory Points (VPs)
Walls
Water Movement
Weapon Cards
Wire
2.0
7.6
7.7
7.7.1
7.7.3
7.7.2
5.5
5.2,14.4
18.3.2
5.0.1
14.2
2.3
15.4
1.0
9.0
7.7.2
13.0
20.2
7.5.1
11.1
3.2.1
4.0
14.5
17.0
18.1.1
16.0
15.4
1.1
3.0.1
2.5.2
2.5
5.0.2
4.0
8.4
18.3.1
Conflict of Heroes ®: 
Awakening the Bear!
Copyright © 2012 Academy Games
Helena, OH 43435 419-307-2115