For 2 or 4 PLAYERS
AGES 6 and up
ABOUT CONNECT 4 & More
With Connect 4 & More, the classic game of Connect 
4 takes over the table with tiles and exciting new 
versions of gameplay. Rules for six different games 
are found below.
CONTENTS
40 game tiles and instructions.
CLASSIC CONNECT 4® (For 2 Players)
GAME SETUP
1. Divide the red and yellow tiles. One player is the 
“red” player and uses the red tiles and the other is the 
“yellow” player.
2. The red player takes the yellow player’s stack of 
tiles and thoroughly mixes them and returns them, 
face down in a stack, to the yellow player. The yellow 
player does the same with the red player’s tiles.
HOW TO PLAY
1. The youngest player goes first. He draws his top 
tile and places it face up in the center of the table.
2. The opponent draws his top tile and places it face 
up by joining it to the already played tile. Colors of 
edges must match all adjacent (touching) sides. If 
it is possible to play the tile, the player must play it. 
IMPORTANT NOTE: Later in the game when more 
tiles are in play there are more sides that will need to 
match. Whenever a tile is placed it must match all 
edges of all adjacent tiles.
3. If there is no possible place to play the tile, by 
connecting it to another already played tile, the player 
places it at the bottom of his draw pile and loses his 
turn.
WINNING
The first player to connect a straight line of 4 of his 
colored tiles (red or yellow) wins. Tiles can be con­
nected in a horizontal, vertical or diagonal line.
BACKWARDS CONNECT 4® (For 2 Players)
In this twist on traditional play, players need to think 
differently and develop a new strategy to win. The 
first one to Connect 4 LOSES! It’s fun to force your 
opponent to make 4-in-a-row, so you can win!
Setup is the same as Classic Connect 4. Play is the 
same, except you are trying to AVOID getting four of 
your colored tiles in a row. Your goal is to get your 
opponent to place four of his colored tiles in a row. 
Remember, if a tile can be played, it must be played. 
The first player to get 4-in-a-row loses and the other 
player wins.
™
®
All edges match. 
This is the correct 
way to play tiles.
Edges do not match. 
This play is incorrect
Correct Play
Incorrect Play

CONNECT 4® TEAMS (For 4 Players, playing in 2 
teams of 2)
Teammates alternate in sitting around the table (Red 
Player #1, Yellow Player #1, Red Player #2, Yellow 
Player #2). Shuffle the stack of yellow tiles and 
separately, shuffle the stack of red tiles. Each player 
receives ten tiles of their team’s color. Red Player #1 
plays first and play is the same as in Classic Connect 
4. However, if a player cannot play a tile, they give 
it to their teammate, who puts it at the bottom of his 
stack. Play continues until one team has connected 
four tiles in a row.
CONNECT THREE-4 (For 2 Players)
Setup is the same as Classic Connect 4. Each time a 
player gets a 3-in-a-row, he flips the three tiles over 
and leaves them in place on the table. This will main­
tain the layout already created. Play continues, and 
new tiles can be played on top of flipped tiles. The 
first person to create four rows of three wins! (Since 
the backs of the tiles are the same colors as the fronts, 
it’s easy to keep track of which player has “scored” 
each 3-in-a-row.)
CONNECT 4® ANY COLOR (For 2 Players)
Mix all of the red and yellow tiles together to form 
one large “draw pile stack” that both players will use. 
In this game, players compete to get 4-in-a-row, but 
they can do so with either color! The stack of tiles is 
placed, face-up, with the fronts of the tiles showing. 
The first player plays the first tile and play continues 
until one player has connected four tiles of either 
yellow or red. As each player plays one tile, they also 
reveal what color tile their opponent will have to play 
on the next turn. It is important to keep this strategy 
in mind. The first player with 4-in-a-row of either 
color wins.
CONNECT 4® & MORE & MORE & MORE!
Setup and play is the same as the classic game. How­
ever, instead of ending the game when a player gets 
a 4-in-a-row, keep playing to get MORE rows of 4! 
Each row of 4 is worth 1 point, even if you simply ex­
tend an existing line to create a new “4-in-a-row”. The 
game ends when either player has played all of their 
tiles. The winner is the player with the most points. 
Remember to use a big surface for this game because 
it grows big!
 
write: 	 Winning Moves Games
	 	 	
75 Sylvan St., Suite C-104	
	
	 	 Danvers, MA 01923
phone: 1.800.664.7788 ext. 114
fax: 	
978.739.4847
email: 	wmoves@winning-moves.com
Contact Us
twitter.com/winningmovesusamovesusa
pinterest.com/winningmovesusa
youtube.com/winningmovesusa
facebook.com/winningmovesgames
HASBRO, its logo, and Connect 4 are registered trademarks of Hasbro and are 
used with permission. © 2013 Hasbro, Inc., Pawtucket, RI 02862. All Rights 
Reserved. Manufactured by Winning Moves Inc., 75 Sylvan Street, Suite C-104, 
Danvers, MA 01923 USA. All Rights Reserved. Colors and Parts may vary. 
Made in China.
For more information about Winning Moves product safety and com­
pliance please visit http://www.winning-moves.com/product_safety.
See the fun inside the box!
Invented by:
Item #1185