CONQUISTADOR 
The Age of Exploration:1495-1600 
Copyright © 1976, Simulations Publications, Inc., New York 
 
 
New World. During each Game-Turn, players use 
the Naval Phases to transport units and make dis-
coveries; during the Land Phase players use land 
units to make further discoveries as well as mine and 
collect Gold and Resources. During each of these 
Phases combat between opposing sides is possible, 
as well as Native Uprisings and Attrition, while 
Random Events throw an aura of uncertainty into each 
turn. At the end of the game, the Players add up their 
accumulated Victory Points and the winner is 
determined. 
15.0 SPECIAL UNITS 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
15.1 Colonist Units 
15.2 Soldiers 
15.3 Explorers 
2.0 PLAYER ORIENTATION AND BACKGROUND 
3.0 GAME EQUIPMENT 
3.1 The Game Map 
It is suggested that the Players first read the definitions 
in (4.0) to be familiar with the language of the game 
and then continue through the Sequence of Play. 
Working knowledge of the latter is essential to 
understanding and controlling the flow of the 
game. After about 30 minutes of examination, using 
the Sequence of Play as a guide, the Players should 
be able to get into an actual game. 
15.4 Privateers (The English "Sea Dogs") 
15.5 Conquistadors 
3.2 The Playing Pieces 
4.0 DEFINITIONS OF SPECIAL TERMS 
15.6 Missionaries 
5.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
16.0 SETTLEMENTS AND PORTS 
5.1 Sequence Outline 
16.1 Definition of a Settlement and Port 
16.2 Stacking Restrictions 
16.3 Effect on Combat 
16.4 Use of Settlements 
16.5 Special Use of Ports 
5.2 Counter Limitations 
6.0 OPERATIONS OF THE ROYAL COUNCIL 
6.1 Monarchs 
 6.2 The National Treasury 
 6.3 Random Events 
Conquistador! requires a fair degree of interaction 
between the Players in diplomatic and economic as well 
as military matters. Approached in the spirit of the 
Age of Exploration, Conquistador! should prove to 
be a lot of fun, as well as a source of interesting 
information. We hope you enjoy it. 
17.0 NATIVES 
 6.4 Political Events 
17.1 The Native Levels 
 6.5 Initiative 
17.2 Combat Against Natives 
17.3 Native Uprisings 
 6.6 Outfitting Expeditions 
6.7 Documentation, Treaties and Secrecy 
18.0 DISCOVERY 
6.8 Maintenance 
18.1 The Mechanics of Discovery 
18.2 The Discovery Table 
7.0 NAVAL MOVEMENT 
7.1 The Ships 
19.0 POLITICAL CONTROL OF AREAS 
19.1 The Mechanics of Control 
 7.2 Trans-Oceanic Movement 
[3.0] GAME EQUIPMENT 
 7.3 Hemispheric Movement 
20.0 VICTORY CONDITIONS 
 7.4 Continual Movement 
The complete game should contain the following 
equipment: 
21.0 THE SCENARIOS 
 7.5 The South Cape 
21.1 The Campaign Game (1495-1600) 
 7.6 Rivers 
One Game Map (22" x 32") 
21.2 The Solitaire Scenario: Spain in the New World 
 7.7 Non-Valuable Islands 
One Sheet of Die-Cut Counters (200 pieces) 
One Rules Booklet 
22.0 THE TREATY OF TORDESILLAS [Optional Rule] 
22.1 Implementation of the Treaty 
22.3 Effect of the Treaty 
 7.8 Stacking 
8.0 NAVAL COMBAT 
8.1 When Combat Occurs 
 22.3 Spanish Annexation of Portugal 
8.2 How to Attack 
Two Dice (not supplied in subscription edition) 
23.0 PORTUGAL AS A FOURTH PLAYER 
8.3 Combat Results 
One Game Box (not supplied in subscription 
edition) 
[Optional Rule] 
8.4 Naval Combat Results Table 
23.1 The Portuguese Set-Up 
8.5 Naval Invasion of Ports 
If any of these parts are missing or damaged, write: 
24.0 THE GERMAN BANKERS [Optional Rule] 
24.1 Mechanics of Playing the German Bankers 
24.2 German Banker Explorers 
24.3 German Banker Control 
24.4 German Banker Victory 
9.0 NAVAL ATTRITION 
Customer Service 
9.1 Checking for Naval Attrition 
9.2 The Effects of Attrition 
Simulations Publications, Inc. 
44 East 23rd Street New York, 
N.Y. 10010 
 9.3 Penalties for Exceeding Purchased Bounds 
9.4 Examples of Naval Attrition 
9.5 Naval Attrition Table 
Questions regarding the rules will be answered if 
accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope 
and if phrased to be answered by a simple one word 
answer. Send questions to the above address and mark 
envelope Conquistador Rules Questions. 
10.0 LAND MOVEMENT 
10.1 How Units Move 
10.2 Effects of Terrain 
10.3 Stacking 
[1.0] INTRODUCTION 
Conquistador! is a one, two or three player game 
based on the exploration and conquest of the New 
World in the 16th Century. The game is quasi-historical 
in nature, providing the atmosphere and mechanics 
of the 16th, Century world, along with historical 
personages. The object of the game is for one Country 
(Player) to accumulate as much wealth, land, and 
prestige (in the form of actual discoveries) as he 
can; the Country with the greatest total of all three 
is the victor. Conquistador! is not a simple game; the 
rules are long and relatively intricate. Therefore, the 
Players should have a good grasp of the rules 
before they begin to play. 
 10.4 Zones of Control 
[3.1] THE GAME MAP 
10.5 Embarking/Debarking 
11.0 LAND COMBAT 
The game map represents the New World (the 
Western Hemisphere). A hexagonal grid has been 
superimposed over this simplified geographic rep-
resentation in order to regulate the movement and 
positioning of the playing pieces. In order to make the 
map lie flat, back-fold it along the machine made 
creases, then smooth it out on a flat table. If desired, the 
edges can be secured to the table using small pieces of 
making tape to hold the map taut. 
11.1 How to Have Combat 
11.2 Combat Results 
11.3 Land Combat Results Table 
12.0 LAND ATTRITION 
12.1 Area Attrition Levels 
 12.2 Effects of Terrain on Area Attrition Levels 
12.3 Spain and Land Attrition 
12.4 Determining Attrition 
12.5 Land Attrition Table 
Players will note that a number of charts and 
tables are printed directly on the map. Before reading 
further, quickly scan them and the geography of the 
map. Notice the Terrain Key on the map. All these 
elements will be explained in the relevant rules 
sections. 
13.0 GOLD AND TREASURE 
13.1 Mainland Gold 
13.2 Caribbean Gold 
 13.3 Treasure and Looting 
[2.0] PLAYER ORIENTATION 
 13.4 Transportation of Gold and Treasure 
AND BACKGROUND 
13.5 Abandonment of Mines 
13.6 The Gold Table 
[3.2] THE PLAYING PIECES 
The Players are after three objectives: Discovery 
Points, Political Points (control over the Areas on 
the Game-Map) and Wealth (Gold and Resources). 
To accomplish these goals, players send expeditions 
with colonists and/or soldiers to settle and mine (or 
plunder, if you will) the riches of the 
14.0 RESOURCES 
Examine the sheet of die-cut counters (don't punch them 
out until you are familiar with the rules). These 
represent the men and material involved in the 
exploration, colonization, and exploitation of the 
New World. The numbers on the pieces quantify 
certain characteristics of these various men and 
their material. 
14.1 The Resource Level 
14.2 Collection of Resources 
[3.21] Nationalities . 
The Green counters are the Spanish; the Blue 
counters are the French; and the light Tan counters

have two coasts. Bounds for the east or west coast are 
listed separately ("e" or "w"). In addition, both Brasil 
and the Incan Empire are divided by a line; bounds 
are listed for points north of the line (inclusive) and 
south of it ("n" and "s"). 
are the English. The Yellow ships and Brown and 
Yellow Gold Markers are not tied to a nationality. 
Treasury Track Marker 
 
[3.22] Summary of Counter Types 
FRONT OR BACK 
 FRONT OR 
BACK 
Conquistador (Spanish only) 
 
Expedition: An expedition is a ship or group of 
ships starting from a common port and heading for a 
common destination with the intent of staying together 
throughout the entire Game-Turn. 
Note that the double sided counters in Conquistador 
in some instances have completely different types of 
pieces on opposite sides of the same counter. 
Missionary Conversion Rating: The ability of a 
Spanish Missionary, expressed as a positive ("+") or 
negative ("-") number, to influence relations with 
Natives. 
 
Combat Strength is the basic attack/defense power of a 
playing piece quantified in Strength Points. Some 
units have their strength represented by two 
numbers: one for their Attack Strength and one for 
their Defense Strength. 
Carrack: Large merchant ships. Slow and hard to 
handle, but sturdy with a large cargo capacity. 
Note that the symbol for an explorer is a mariner's quadrant 
(precursor to the sextant). 
Caravel: A small coastal trader. Quite seaworthy but 
cramped and uncomfortable, with less cargo 
capacity than a Carrack. 
Explorer/Privateer (Englishonly) 
 
Movement Allowance is the basic, per-turn ability of 
a playing piece to move. To enter a hex a unit 
expends one Movement Point of its Allowance. 
Galleon Fleet: A large, powerful formation of galleons 
(super-carracks, as it were), used for shipment of 
Gold. Historically they were virtually invulnerable. 
 
[3.231 The Explorers and Conquistadors 
Several 
of 
the 
explorer/conquistador 
units 
use 
abbreviations of the actual names. For Player 
reference, all historical personages in the game are 
listed below. 
 
Spain: 
Almagro, 
Ayolas, 
Balboa, 
Columbus, 
Cordova, 
Coronado, 
Cortes, 
Gamboa, 
Irala, 
Ladrillero, 
Leon, 
Loaysa, 
Magellan, 
Moscoso, 
Narvaez, Ojeda, Onate, Orellana, Pinzon, Pizarro, 
Solis, Soto, Ulloa, Vaca. 
Ability Rating: A letter code representing the overall 
ability of a Monarch; irreducible within the same 
monarch; a country's monarch's ability rating will change 
only when the Random Events Table specifies that a 
new monarch has succeeded to the Throne. 
Name Abbreviation 
 
England: 
The 
Anglo/Azorean 
Syndicate, 
Cabot 
(John), Cabot (Sebastian), Cavendish, Davis, Drake, 
Frobisher, Gilbert, Grenville, Hawkins, Raleigh, 
Rut. 
France: Cartier, Gonneville, Laudonniere, Personne 
(non-historical), 
Ribaut, 
Roberval, 
Verrazzano, 
Villegagnon. 
ERRATA: Grenville and Gilbert, who are both in 
play on turns 18 and 19, are on opposite sides of the 
same marker. This is an error. Use any other 
English Explorer marker to represent Grenville. 
 
[4.0] DEFINITIONS OF 
SPECIAL TERMS 
This glossary covers the general meaning of some of the 
more unusual terms found in the rules. 
Area: A geographical section of the New World, set off 
from other Areas by boundary lines. All Areas are 
named (for example, "Incan Empire"). This name 
and the numbers associated with it is called the Area 
Information Display. 
Area Information Display: Printed on the map, this 
consists of the name of a given Area, followed by the 
number of bounds of naval movement required to 
reach it (if the Area has a coast). The numbers 
under the name of an Area indicate the Native Level and 
the Attrition Level of that Area. Additionally, those 
Areas that yield double resources will have an "R2" 
associated with these numbers. 
Area Native Level: A number indicating the effective 
level of native resistance in a given Area (found on 
the Area Information Display on the map). 
Area Attrition Level: A number indicating the degree 
of hardship suffered by those Europeans operating in that 
Area (found on the Area Information Display on the 
map). 
Bound: Bounds are measurements of Naval Move-
ment used for the purpose of regulating and financing 
movement to-and-from Europe. Each bound is worth 
Naval 
Points. 
The 
distance, 
as 
measured in bounds, from each Area to Europe is 
listed in that particular Area's Information Display. 
For example, to move a ship from Europe to a land 
hex in the Caribbean costs 3 bounds. Some Areas 
Monarch's Multiplier: this number is multiplied by the 
number of Ducats currently in his country's Treasury 
to give the country's Initiative Level. The multiplier 
corresponds to the Monarch's Ability Rating (A = 4, 
B = 3, C = 2, D = 1), although it may be 
temporarily changed for a Game-Turn by the 
Random Events Table. 
Initiative Level: The Player with the highest Initiative 
Level on a given Game-Turn moves first during each 
Segment of that Game-Turn. 
[5.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
Conquistador! is played in Game-Turns. Within each 
Game-Turn are five phases, each of which is divided 
into segments. The first Phase-the Council Phase - is 
enacted simultaneously, all players performing each 
segment in order. Thereafter, the players execute each 
Segment of each Phase sequentially, proceeding in 
order according to Initiative (6.5). No player may 
perform actions in a given Segment until the Player who 
is to go before him has completed his actions in that 
segment. Players should keep in, mind the difference 
between Phase and Segment. All actions must take 
place in the Sequence as outlined below. 
[5.1] SEQUENCE OUTLINE 
A. THE COUNCIL PHASE 
Each Segment in the Council Phase is performed 
simultaneously by the Players. 
1. Random Events Segment: The Players roll for 
Taxation, Availability of Colonists, and Political 
Events as per the Random Events rules and Table 
(6.3). 
2. Initiative Determination Segment: Players determine 
who is to proceed first in each segment of a Game-Turn as 
per the rules on Initiative (6.5). 
3. Planning Segment: Each Player purchases all the 
material and men that he needs for the upcoming 
turn. He also plans, in writing, the length and destination 
of all Expeditions. Loans, treaties and other diplomatic 
arrangements may be made during this Phase. All plans 
and purchases may be kept secret until the end of the 
turn, when they should be revealed to other Players. 
 
Number of 
Detachments 
 
Two Soldier Detachments 
Two Colonist Elements 
 
Six Soldier 
Five Colonist Elements 
 
One Carrack 
Combat 
Strength 
One Caravel
Attack/Defense 
Strength 
 
Three Carracks 
Three Caravels 
Five Carracks 
Three Carracks 
 
One Galleon Fleet 
 
Gold Marker 
Gold Mine Depleted Marker 
 
FRONT 
Missionary (unknown) 
 
e 
Allowanc
 
 e e Rating 
 
 
 
 
 One Soldier Detachment One Colonist Element 
Combat Movement Combat Movement 
Strength Allowance Strength Allowance 
BACK 
 Missionary (known) 
 Conversion 
 

 
B. THE INITIAL NAVAL PHASE 
Players perform each segment in this Phase 
(rend Phases C rend D) according to the rules of 
Initiative. Each Player must complete his actions in 
each Segment before the next Player begins his. 
1. Trans-Oceanic Naval Movement Segment: Play-
ers may move Expeditions to and/or from Europe 
(port box) rend the New World. Expeditions may 
stop at their Initially Designated Landing Hex 
only; unloading of non-naval units is prohibited 
in this segment. 
2. Hemispheric Naval Movement Segment: Players 
may move expeditions between points within the 
New World. They may not move to or from Europe. 
Expeditions may drop off rend pick up land units; 
they may engage in naval combat and/or naval 
invasions during Hemispheric Movement. 
 
3. Naval Attrition Segment: Each Player checks for 
possible attrition to each of his naval 
expeditions after all movement is completed. 
Attrition is based on movement-distance covered 
in this phase. 
C. THE LAND PHASE 
1. The Gold Segment: Players may attempt to dis-
cover Gold in any of the Gold Hexes (see Terrain 
Key). Players may mine Gold from working mines 
rend collect loot from Treasure Cities. At the end of 
each segment, each Player working re mine or 
looting re Treasure City rolls for Depletion. 
2. Land Movement and Combat Segment: 
Each Player may move any or all of his land 
units as per the rules on Movement (10.1). A unit 
entering an enemy-occupied hex engages in land 
combat. Land transportation of gold is allowed in 
this segment, but players may not load gold 
onto ships until Segment 6. Players record 
Victory Points for any Land Discoveries made 
during this Segment. 
3. Native Combat Segment: Each Player, in turn, 
may decide to attack the Natives in an Area as 
per the rules for Combat against Natives. 
4. Native Uprising Segment: Each Player, in turn, 
checks for the possibility of re Native Uprising. If 
an Uprising has been triggered, the Player resolves 
the Uprising on the Native Uprising CRT. 
5. Land Attrition Segment: Each Player checks for 
Land Attrition, removing any units eliminated. 
Players check for Land Attrition for each land hex 
in which they have units. 
6. Resource Segment: Players may load Gold units 
onto ships for shipment back to Europe. Players 
may credit Resources collected to their National 
Treasuries. 
D. FINAL NAVAL PHASE 
1. Trans-Oceanic Naval Movement Segment: Play-
ers may move their naval expeditions to and/or 
from Europe rend the New World. Ships may not 
use Hemispheric Naval Movement in this phase, 
nor is combat allowed. 
2. Naval Attrition Segment: Players check for 
Naval Attrition as in B-3. 
3. Discovery Credit Segment: Players get credit 
for Discoveries by Naval Expeditions that have 
returned to re friendly port. 
4. Gold rend treasure safely returned to Europe are 
added to the respective national treasuries. 
E. MAINTENANCE PHASE 
The Players must prey Maintenance costs for 
each unit that they wish to keep in play for the 
next turn (see 6.8). Costs expended are deducted 
from the National Treasuries. 
[5.2] COUNTER LIMITATIONS 
Players are not limited by the counters provided for 
ships, soldiers, colonists, or gold markers. If 
needed, they may use additional counters from any 
source. 
[6.0] OPERATIONS OF 
THE ROYAL COUNCIL 
In the Council Phase of each Game-Turn each 
Player makes all the decisions rend disbursements 
necessary to launch expeditions to (rend within) the 
New World. All operations in the Council Phase are 
conducted in any fashion desired by the players, as 
long as the sequence of the individual segments is 
maintained. Decisions made during the Planning 
Segment may be kept secret until the end of the 
game-turn, when all Players should reveal their 
plans. During the Council Phase, Players may 
make any agreements - political, military or financial 
- that they wish, as long as none of the agreements 
made is in opposition to the rules. 
 
[6.1] MONARCHS 
[6.11] Each country has re Monarch (see Initial 
Setup, 21.0). The country retains that Monarch until 
the Political Events Table (6.4) mandates re change. 
The only time re Monarch changes is when it is man-
dated by the Political Events Table. 
[6.12] Each Monarch has an Ability rating - 
either A, B, C, or D. This affects the mount of taxes 
collected by, rend the Initiative Level of, each coun-
try. Monarchs have no effect on any other facet of 
the game. 
[6.2] THE NATIONAL TREASURY 
[6.21] Each country has re National Treasury which 
contains all the funds available to that country. 
Each Player uses markers to record hundreds, tens 
and ones of ducats in his National Treasury on the 
National Treasury Track, located on the Map. 
[6.22] Funds in the National Treasury are mea-
sured in Ducats. Players prey for items in Ducats, 
rend collect Taxes, Resources rend Gold in Ducats. 
Each Ducat is worth two Victory Points at the end of the 
Game. 
[6.23] Players expend (Subtract) Ducats when they 
purchase material rend men rend outfit expeditions, 
etc. They add Ducats to the Treasury when they collect 
Taxes, Resources rend Gold. Players simply add or 
subtract the proper remount from their Treasury 
level by moving the markers on the Treasury Track to 
keep an accurate record of their worth. 
[6.24] The Treasury levels at the start of the game 
are given in the Initial Set-Up (21.0). 
[6.25] Players may spend only up to the current 
level of Ducats in their National Treasuries. They may 
not engage in "Deficit Spending", against possible tax 
collections, etc. However, players may arrange loans 
with other countries at whatever terms the parties 
deem favorable. Transference of Ducats between 
National Treasuries is accomplished by 
bookkeeping; there is no need for literal trans-
portation (by ships). No player is eliminated from 
the game simply be cause his National Treasury is 
bankrupt; he may keep on playing. 
[6.26] The National Treasury Track (See Game 
Map. 
[6.3] RANDOM EVENTS 
At the beginning of each Council Phase in the Ran-
dom Events Segment, each player rolls two dice for re 
series of events: Collection of Taxes, Availability of 
Colonists, rend Political Events. All these 
occurrences are covered in one Table: the Random 
Events Table (RET), located on the Game-Map. 
[6.31] Taxes 
Each player throws one die. He then refers to the 
RET rend cross-references the die roll with his Mon-
arch's Ability Rating. The result is the remount of 
Ducats added to his National Treasury, e.g., re 
country with re "B" Monarch throws re three; that 
player adds twenty Ducats to his National Treasury. 
[6.32] Colonists 
Using the same number from the die-roll used in 6.31, 
the player now refers to the Colonists Available 
section of the RET. Thus, with the '3' thrown in 6.31, 
the player would receive four Colonist units. Note 
that the number of Colonists available might possibly 
be changed by Political Events. 
[6.33] Political Events 
Again using the same die-roll from 6.31, the Player 
now checks for re Political Event by throwing an 
additional die. The additional die corresponds to 
the numbered columns under the Political Events 
section of the RET. Thus, if the Player threw a five on 
his second die, he would check the fifth column, the 
third row (the same as the die roll in 6.31). Explanation 
of number rend letter results on the Political Events 
section of the RET can be found on the List of 
Political Events (6.4). 
[6.34] The Random Events Table (See Game-Map) 
[6.4] POLITICAL EVENTS 
The List of Political Events simulates re variety of 
peripheral rend random occurrences which had, or 
could have had, direct bearing on success in the 
New World. 
Each Player rolls on the RET for re Political Event 
number or letter (see 6.3). The resulting letter or 
number can be found on the Political Event List. 
The Player must follow the instructions of the List 
unless specifically exempted by the instructions or 
unless the performance is re literal rend physical im-
possibility. (For example, see List Result #4.) Each 
event applies only to the Game-Turn being played, 
unless specifically extended. 
[6.41] Explanation of Political Events 
A, B, C, or D Monarch Change. The Player im-
mediately changes his Monarch to re Monarch of the 
given letter. The new letter is the Ability Rating of the 
country's new Monarch, until changed again by the 
RET. 
1. Increased Interest in Overseas Expansion: The 
Player increases his Monarch's multiplier by one 
point for this turn only, before checking for Initiative 
Level. The Monarch's Ability Rating does not 
change. 
2. Metallurgical Breakthrough: If the Player is in 
possession of, rend actually working, the Pitosi Silver 
Mines (hex 4213), his output doubles (to 50 ducats 
per turn) for the remainder of the time he continues 
working the mine until the mine is depleted. This 
event may only occur once. 
3. Decreased Interest in Overseas Expansion: The 
Player decreases his Monarch's Multiplier by one 
point for this turn only. (It may never fall below one 
point). 
4. Natives Resentful of European Intrusion: The 
Player must remove one of his settlements that has 
two or fewer colonists. He must remove the settlement 
from the Area that has the highest Native Level of any 
Area in which the Player has two or fewer settlements. 
If the Player has no settlements or all his settlements 
have more than two colonists, this event is ignored. 
Note that only Colonists are eliminated. (Areas in 
which the Native Level is '0' are ignored). 
5. Costly European War Drains Treasury: Reduce the 
National Treasury by 50 Ducats, or reduce to '0' if the 
Treasury contains less than 50 Ducats. 
6. Guile and Treachery Obtain "Rutter" for the 
South Cape. (See 7.53). MAY BE USED ONLY IF 
THE SOUTHERN CAPE HAS BEEN PREVI-
OUSLY NAVIGATED. 
7. Civil War At Home. The Player may not purchase 
new Soldier units this turn. In addition, the Player 
must transport at least one-quarter of the 
 

 
soldier detachments he has in the New World to 
Europe by the end of the Turn. These Soldiers must 
actually be transported; they are considered elimi-
nated when they reach Europe (or when they suffer 
naval attrition) and may not be maintained. Failure 
to comply with this event results in an immediate loss 
of 100 Victory Points. 
8. Oppressive Colonial Policy. All settlements owned 
by the Player in an Area where the Native Level is 
presently greater than zero undergo an immediate 
Native Uprising; the Player does not check for the 
Uprising Level first but rolls directly on the Native 
Uprising CRT. This event is in addition to any 
Uprisings that may occur normally. 
9. Affluent Middle Class. At the gentle behest of 
The Crown the Middle Class donates 20 Ducats to 
the Player's Treasury. 
10. Graft and Corruption Rife. For this turn only the 
Player must pay double for all purchases and all 
maintenance. 
11. Ready Supply of Colonists. Religious oppression 
at home and wild stories of Gold produce a steady 
flow of eager colonists. Double the number of 
colonists available this turn. 
12. Supply of Colonists Dries Up. Tales of rigorous 
hardship and cannibalism reduce the availability of 
colonists to zero. No Colonists are available to the 
Player this turn. 
13. Natives Decimated by Disease. Virulent strains of 
smallpox decimate the Native population. In all 
Areas that have any Europeans in them the Native 
Level is reduced by one. Levels that are already at 
one are not reduced. In addition, no Native 
Uprisings against anyone are possible this turn. 
14. The Seven Cities of Cibola. If the Player has any 
Units in California, the Rockies, the Midwest 
Plateau, Sonora or the Aztec Empire, he must 
launch a land expedition to find the fabled Seven 
Cities of Cibola. The expedition must, at some 
time, pass through all the above mentioned Areas. 
All units in the expedition must start from the same 
hex. A minimum of three Soldier detachments must 
participate, and, if the Player is Spanish, a Con-
quistador (if there is one in any of the aforemen-
tioned Areas) and a Missionary must accompany the 
Expedition. The Player may conduct any normal 
activities during the expedition, but the expedition 
must be finished within 15 years (3 turns) of the 
reading of this event. Failure to comply means a loss 
of 100 Victory Points. 
 
15. El Dorado. The requirements for this Event are 
the same as for #14, but the Areas involved are 
Panama, Venezuela, The Amazon and the Incas 
Empire, and the time for completion is 10 years (2 
game-turns). 
16. Plague In the Colonies. The Player must remove 
one colonist or one Soldier detachment from at least 
half of his settlements. Additionally, if the Player is 
Spain he also rolls a die in addition to the above losses: 
1, 2, or 3 = no effect; 4 or 5 = he must remove any one 
Conquistador in the game (if present); 6 = he must 
remove one Conquistador and one Missionary (if 
present). 
17. Carib Indians on Rampage. If the Native Level of 
the Caribbean is at least "1" and the Player has any 
units in the Caribbean Area he must remove either 
one Colonist or one Soldier detachment. 
Additionally, if the Player is Spain, he rolls a die: 1 or 
2 = no effect; 3 = remove a Missionary (from the 
Caribbean); 4, 5 or 6 = remove either a Conquistador 
or an Explorer, if one is present in the Caribbean. 
These units are removed because they've been eaten! 
[6.5] INITIATIVE 
[6.51] The Player with the highest Initiative Level 
moves first in each segment of each game-Turn. 
[6.52] To determine Initiative Level, the Mon-
arch's multiplier (see 6.54) is multiplied by the 
number of Ducats in the Treasury. The resultant 
number is that country's Initiative Level, e.g., 
Spain has a 'B' Monarch and 85 Ducats in the 
Treasury. Her Initiative Level is 255. 
[6.53] The country with the highest Initiative Level 
moves first in each segment. If there is a tie the 
country with the highest-rated Monarch goes first; 
otherwise, highest throw on a die goes first. 
[6.54] The Monarchs' Multipliers are as follows: 
A = 4; B = 3; C = 2; D = 1. 
A Monarch's Multiplier may never be reduced below 
'1' by a Random Political Event. 
[6.6] OUTFITTING EXPEDITIONS 
Players must purchase all the materials and most of 
the manpower they need for accomplishing their 
objectives in The New World. In addition, once having 
purchased certain items they must maintain these 
items by additional outlays of Ducats in order to 
keep them in play. A Player may purchase as 
many ships and soldiers and outfit as many expedi-
tions (by purchasing 'bounds') as he has funds for. 
Players are limited only by their Treasuries and ran-
dom Political Events. 
[6.61] All units, with the exception of Colonists, 
Missionaries, Explorers and Conquistadors, must be 
purchased. Purchase costs may be found on the 
Purchase Cost List (see Game-Map). Missionaries 
and Colonists have no Purchase Cost; see the sec-
tions covering these units for specifics. All units 
become available in Europe. (Exception: 7.17). 
[6.62] All Naval Expeditions travel - for purposes of 
estimating outfitting costs - in movement units called 
"Bounds". (See 4.0, 7.2). Each Bound to be traveled 
by a given Expedition, whether it starts from Europe 
or from the New World, must be paid for - in 
advance, during the Planning Segment - as part of 
outfitting an Expedition. Each Bound which an 
expedition makes costs 2 Ducats, and the Player must 
pay for all the Bounds that the particular Expedition 
plans to use in that Game-Turn. The penalties for 
exceeding the purchased number of bounds are 
severe (see 9.3). 
[6.63] Example: An expedition plans to travel from 
Europe to the Rio del Plate Area and back, with 
possible "side-trips" during Hemispheric move-
ment. The Player purchases 12 Bounds, at a cost of 24 
Ducats, to cover the trip to Rio del Plate and 
Back, plus 2 extra Bounds for Hemispheric Move-
ment undertaken. 
[6.64] Bounds may not be accumulated from Game-
Turn to Game-Turn; unused Bounds do not carry 
over to the next Game-Turn. 
[6.65] Purchase Cost and Maintenance Table (See 
Game-Map). 
[6.7] DOCUMENTATION, TREATIES 
AND SECRECY 
[6.71] The materials and units to be purchased and 
the initial destination of each Expedition must be 
written down during the Planning Segment. Players 
may purchase only what they have written down. 
Furthermore, all plans and orders may be kept 
secret until the end of the turn. 
[6.72] Players may agree to formulate Treaties - 
secret or otherwise - between their respective 
countries. The Treaties may agree to anything that is 
legal within the rules, but they must be written and 
spell out the agreements between the parties. 
Players may renege on a treaty at any time. 
[6.8] MAINTENANCE 
Each Player must pay Maintenance at the end of 
each turn for certain, designated items. Unless 
Maintenance is paid for these items, they are 
eliminated from play. Maintenance is paid only for 
 items so designated; no other items have 
maintenance costs. 
[6.81] Maintenance costs are paid at the end of 
each Game-Turn, during the Maintenance Phase. 
Maintenance must be paid on units in Europe, as 
well as those in the New World. If a Player fails to 
pay the necessary Maintenance for a given unit that 
unit is eliminated from play. The Maintenance cost 
of all units is printed on the Purchase Cost List (see 
the Game-Map). 
[6.82] Colonists have no initial purchase cost; they 
are brought into play through the Random Events 
Table. However, Players must pay 2 Ducats 
maintenance for each colonist unit they have on the 
board. Colonists may not be maintained in Europe; 
they must be used in the turn they enter the Game. 
[6.83] Missionaries have no initial purchase cost; 
they arrive at the direction of the Spanish Player and 
according to case 15.6. However, the Spanish Player 
pays a Maintenance Cost of 1 Ducat for each 
Missionary he has in play. The Spanish Player must 
pay Maintenance for each Missionary he has; it is 
automatically deducted from his Treasury. He may 
not choose to allow the unit to be eliminated by failure 
to pay maintenance. The only time the Spanish Player 
may legitimately fail to pay Maintenance on a 
Missionary is when his National Treasury is bankrupt. 
Maintenance for Missionaries must be paid before 
all other Maintenance is paid. 
[6.84] Maintenance costs for all units on the 
Game-Map at the end of the final Game-Turn must be 
paid automatically. Players may not avoid payment of 
Maintenance on the last game-turn by allowing units 
to "die", unless their National Treasury is bankrupt. 
 
[7.0] NAVAL MOVEMENT 
GENERAL RULE 
There are basically two types of naval movement: 
Trans-Oceanic Naval Movement and Hemispheric 
Naval Movement. Trans-Oceanic Movement is used 
solely between Europe and the New World and is 
measured in movement units called "Bounds". 
Hemispheric Movement is between points within the 
New World only and is measured in hexes traveled; 
each eight hexes traveled equals one Bound for 
purposes of Attrition and financing. Units travel 
at sea in Caravels, Carracks and/or Galleon Fleets. 
During Hemispheric Movement, there is the 
possibility that Naval Combat will occur. After 
the completion of each Naval Phase Players check 
for the possibility of Attrition. 
 
[7.1] THE SHIPS 
Ships are used to transport units and material through 
sea hexes and may move and have combat by 
themselves. Each ship is considered to have a built-in 
navigator/pilot and crew. Each ship may also carry 
Colonists and/or Soldiers, Explorers. Conquistadors, 
Missionaries, and Gold. 
[7.11] 
Caravels have 
an 
unlimited 
Allowance. They may move as far as they wish in a 
given Game-Turn, limited only by Attrition. Each single 
Caravel has a split combat strength; its attack strength 
is two, and its defense strength is four. Each caravel 
may carry either one Soldier detachment or one 
Colonist unit, plus up to five Ducats of Gold or Treasure, 
and an unlimited number of Explorers, Conquistadors 
and Missionaries. A caravel costs four Ducats to build, 
and 
Ducat 
to 
maintain.

 
 
[7.12] Carracks have the same Movement capabili-
ties as Caravels. Each individual Carrack has e 
Combat strength, for both attack end defense, of 
eight, end each costs eight Ducats to build, two to 
maintain. Each Carrack may carry two detach-
ments of Soldiers and/or Colonists (i.e., two of one 
kind, or one of each), plus up to 25 Ducats of 
Gold or Treasure end en unlimited number of 
Explorers, Conquistadors end Missionaries. 
[7.13] Galleon Fleets have the same Movement 
capabilities as Carracks end Caravels, with certain 
restrictions (see 7.14). They have no Combat 
Strength; however, they may never be attacked by 
either Caravels, Carracks or other Galleon Fleets, 
nor may they ever attack any of the above. Their 
sole purpose is to transport Gold, end they may 
travel only between Friendly ports end Europe. 
They may carry nothing but Gold or Treasure - no 
Soldiers, Colonists, Explorers, etc. - but they may 
carry en unlimited amount of Gold on each trip. 
Galleon Fleets cost 40 Ducats to build end 10 Du-
cats to maintain, but e Player may never have more 
then one Galleon Fleet et any one time. 
[7.14] Galleon Fleets do not suffer Attrition; they 
need not roll for Attrition et the end of each Naval 
Phase. However, Galleon Fleets may never be in the 
same Expedition as e Carrack or Caravel, nor may 
they proceed into the Southern Cape Hexes or the 
Pacific Ocean. Galleon Fleets ere not available for 
purchase until turn Six (1521-1525). 
[7.15] Galleon Fleets may protect ports (8.51); 
however, they do not protect other Expeditions, 
even if in the same hex. 
[7.16] Both Carracks end Caravels come in counter 
denominations of one end three, end Carracks also 
come in denominations of five. A denomination of 
one represents e single ship, 3 e group of 3 ships, 
end 5 e squadron of 5 ships. Players may use these 
counters as "change". Thus, if e Player with e 
Squadron counter for five Carracks loses e Carrack in 
e naval battle, he may replace the Squadron 
counter with e "three" end e "one", leaving him 
with the requisite four Carracks. 
[7.17] Starting with Game-Turn Eight (1531-
1535), the Players may build new ships in the New 
World. They may build one ship per Game-Turn et 
the normal price. Ships built in the New World 
must be built et e friendly port which contains three or 
more colonists. [Players may never build Galleon 
Fleets in the New World.] Players should note that this 
is en excellent way to conduct Pacific Exploration, 
although points for discovering the Pacific by see 
pertain only to units sailing through e Cape hex. 
[7.2] TRANS-OCEANIC MOVEMENT 
Ships travel between Europe end the New World 
using e movement system celled "Bounds". The 
number of Bounds needed to reach e given Area 
from Europe (end vice-verse) is printed in the Area 
Information Display for each Area. For example, 
en Expedition wishing to sail from Europe to the 
Caribbean would travel e total of three Bounds; to 
return from the Caribbean to Europe would be en 
additional three Bounds. Trans-Oceanic Movement 
is used solely for travel between the New World 
end Europe; it should not be confused with 
Hemispheric Movement, which covers travel be-
tween points within the New World end is done in e 
separate segment. 
[7.21] Each Player must pay e cost of two Ducats 
per Bound for each Bound planned for travel to end 
from Europe as well as within the New World (see 
6.62). The cost is paid per Expedition, not per ship. 
However, ell Bounds to be traveled in e Turn 
must be paid for et the beginning of the Game 
Turn, during the Council Phase. 
[7.22] Units moving in the Trans-Oceanic Move-
ment segment may move only to or from Europe. 
They may not move between points within the New 
World. Players should note that in the Trans-
Oceanic segment of the Initial Naval Phase, lend 
units may not debark from ships. 
[7.23] To determine how far en Expedition must 
travel to and/or from the New World in e given 
Game-Turn the Player first decides where he wishes 
to go. The Player designates his Landfall in the New 
World by listing the Area to which he wishes to 
travel end the hex in which he wishes to Lend. Once 
he has determined the Area the Player checks the 
Area Information Display to see how many Bounds 
distant that Area is from Europe. If the Player 
wishes to travel to end from that Area he must 
purchase et least the number of Bounds it costs to 
get to that Area (end double that number if he 
wishes to return; he does not have to do so). 
[7.24] Example: A Player wishes to send en Expe-
dition to Rio del Plate - hex 4810 - end beck to 
Europe, with no Hemispheric Movement. The total 
number of Bounds traveled will be 10 - five to get 
there, end five to get beck. To outfit the 
Expedition, aside from purchasing the ships end 
men, would cost 20 Ducats for the Bounds, end the 
Player would roll under the '5' Column on the 
Attrition Table during the Attrition Segment of 
each Naval Phase. 
[7.25] Expeditions may not split up et any time in e 
Game-Turn; they must stay together for the entire 
turn. Any number of ships may make up one Ex-
pedition. However, Galleon Fleets may not be in en 
Expedition with other ships. Each Galleon Fleet is 
considered to be en Expedition unto itself. Lend 
Units may leave Expeditions et will after the Trans-
Oceanic segment of the Initial Naval Phase. 
[7.26] Expeditions that wish to make Voyages of 
Discovery - that is, "lend" et some hex that is not 
e friendly port - must have en Explorer present. 
Expeditions ere restricted to lending only et friendly 
ports or Europe - unless en Explorer is present. 
Note that Expeditions may travel to any hex on the 
board without en Explorer to engage in Naval Com-
bat. In any other instance, they may not stop or lend et 
e non-friendly non-port hex. 
[7.27] Expeditions traveling to the New World 
do not have to return. However, if they end the Game 
Turn in the New World, they must be in e friendly 
port. If they ere anywhere else, they ere considered 
eliminated, with one exception: if e friendly port be-
comes "unfriendly" or non-existent in the same 
turn that the Expedition arrived, the Expedition 
may then be moved to another friendly port within 8 
Movement Points (one bound) (without paying 
for Attrition); or it may return to Europe checking 
for Attrition. 
[7.3] HEMISPHERIC MOVEMENT 
Hemispheric Movement covers travel between 
points within the New World (any place actually on 
the Game-Map). Hemispheric Movement con-
sumes Movement Points which translate into 
Bounds for the Purposes of See Attrition end fi-
nance. 
[7.31] Each ell-see or partial-sea hex which en Ex-
pedition moves through costs one Movement 
Point. Expeditions may move through any partial see 
hex, without lending, et the cost of one Movement 
Point per hex. Expeditions may not move through 
partial see hexes or hexsides in contravention of 
common sense, e.g., en Expedition may never 
move from 2719 to 2819 end then to 2919 or 2920, 
even though 2819 is e partial-sea hex. Expeditions 
ere never forced to lend. 
[7.32] Each coastal or island hex et which en Ex-
pedition stops for the purpose of lending, of 
Discovery, or of engaging in Naval Combat or 
Invasion costs three Movement Points. 
[7.33] Each Eight Movement Points expended, or 
any fraction thereof, is equivalent to one Bound. 
Thus en Expedition that uses nine Movement 
Points during e Hemispheric movement Segment 
has consumed two Bounds, which must be added to 
its total Bound Movement in that Naval Phase when 
determining See Attrition. 
[7.4] CONTINUAL MOVEMENT 
Within each Hemispheric Movement Segment e 
Player may move e given Expedition as far as he 
wishes. The only limits to the distance en 
Expedition may move ere financial and/or Attri-
tional. Stopping to debark or embark units, to Dis-
cover, or to engage in Naval Combat does not pre-
vent the Expedition from continuing its Movement 
in that segment - as long as the Player pays the cost in 
Bounds purchased and/or See Attrition. The 
amount end length of Hemispheric Movement is 
thus et the whim of the individual Player. 
[7.5] THE SOUTH CAPE 
[7.51] The South Cape (known as Cape Horn) is lo-
cated et the tip of South America. There ere two 
hexes - 5814 end 5715 - either of which the Player 
must gain entrance to in order to round the Cape 
end enter the Pacific Ocean [any see hex west of the 
Cape hexes] or the Atlantic, if coming the other 
way. 
[7.52] To enter either of the Cape hexes, the Player 
must roll e die. If he rolls e 1 or 2, he successfully 
rounds the Cape end may proceed into the Pacific 
Ocean. (The Cape hexes ere not pert of the 
Pacific or the Atlantic Oceans.) If the Player rolls e 3, 
4, 5 or 6 he has failed to round the Cape end may not 
try again with that Expedition in that Game-Turn. 
The Expedition may either return "home" or move 
elsewhere as per the rules of Hemispheric 
Movement. Rolling for rounding the Cape may be 
done either in the Trans-Oceanic or Hemispheric 
Segment end applies to movement through the Cape 
in either direction. 
[7.53] Once he has successfully rounded the 
Southern Cape the player possesses e "Rutter", or 
book of sailing instructions, that enables any of his 
expeditions to sail through the Cape freely et any 
time in the game. The Cape may be rounded freely 
only if the Player is in possession of e Rutter. 
Players owning Rutters may sell the information to 
other Players. 
[7.54] No Player may establish e settlement/port in 
either of the Cape hexes. 
[7.6] RIVERS 
No ship may ever sail up any of the rivers on the 
Game-Map. Rivers ere used only for reducing At-
trition effects (12.23). 
[7.7] NON-VALUABLE ISLANDS 
Certain islands in the game - Greenland, ell the 
islands north of hexrow 0400, the Falklands (5611 
end 5612), Tierra del Fuego (5715 etc.), end the 
chain of islands off the coast of modern Chile have 
absolutely no value. Players may lend et them if 
they really went to, but they may not settle them. 
[7.8] STACKING 
There ere no stacking limits et see. A player may 
have as many ships in one hex as he wishes et any 
time. Note that there are limits to whet each ship 
can carry (7.1). 
[8.0] NAVAL COMBAT 
Any time that ships from opposing countries ere 
present in the same partial-sea hex in e Hemi-
spheric Naval segment (end then only), there is e 
possibility of naval combat. Either side may choose to 
initiate the combat; if neither player desires 
combat the Phasing Player may move on, or remain 
in the hex.

 
PROCEDURE: 
If combat is initiated, each Player adds up his re-
spective Combat Strengths. The total of the attacker 
is compared to that of the defender, and an odds/ 
ratio is determined. A die is thrown, and the result is 
determined from the Naval Combat Results Table. 
[8.1] WHEN COMBAT OCCURS 
[8.11] Naval Combat may take place only in partial-
sea hexes; it may never take place in an all sea hex. 
Any type of ship may engage in naval combat, except 
Galleon Fleets. Explorers are not necessary for Naval 
Combat. 
[8.12] Naval Combat is possible when, in the course 
of a Hemispheric Naval Movement Segment, a Player 
moves an Expedition into a partial-sea hex occupied 
by ships of an opposing Player or Players. If neither 
of the Players desire to engage in Combat none 
occurs, and the Player may continue to move his 
ships without any movement penalty - or remain in 
the hex if he so desires. 
[8.13] If a Player moves his ships into an enemy 
occupied hex and the moving player decides to have 
combat, there is combat. The moving Player is the 
attacker. If the hex is occupied by ships of more than 
one enemy Player, the moving Player may choose to 
attack the ships from either or both countries. He 
may choose to attack ships from one country first 
and then the ships of the other, if he so desires. 
[8.14] Both enemy Players may decide to combine 
their forces. They may do so by having a Treaty in 
force at the time (see 6.72). The moving Player must 
then attack both Enemy Player's ships combined. The 
treaty agreement must be announced by both Enemy 
Players before the friendly Player declares his desire 
to attack. Treaties may not be used to combine forces 
in an attack - only one country's ships may ever attack 
at one time. 
[8.15] If a moving Player moves his ships into an 
enemy-occupied hex and does not want to attack, but 
a non-phasing Player announces his intention to 
attack, a die is rolled. A 1, 2 or 3 and the combat 
occurs and the non-moving Player is the attacker; a 4, 
5 or 6 and the phasing Player may continue to move, 
and there is no combat. 
[8.16] If anon-moving Player has attempted to ini-
tiate combat and failed, the moving Player may not 
then choose to stop in that hex; he must continue 
movement. Note that the non-moving enemy Player 
may choose to attack only a moving Player; he may 
not attack another non-moving Player, even if there is 
one present in the hex. 
[8.2] HOW TO ATTACK 
[8.21] It costs three movement points for a moving 
Player to engage in combat, whether it is initiated by 
him or by the opposing Player. There is no cost to 
the non-moving Player. 
[8.22] An individual Expedition may engage in as 
many naval combats as it desires, provided it has 
sufficient Bounds and pays the necessary Attrition 
costs at the end of the Phase (see 7.4). 
[8.23] A given ship may be attacked any number of 
times in a Hemispheric Movement Segment. How-
ever, ships that have been attacked by a given Ex-
pedition may not be attacked by that Expedition 
more than once in a Game-Turn. They may be 
attacked by a different Expedition. 
[8.24] The Player must complete all movement and 
combat with a given Expedition before he moves an-
other Expedition; i.e., he may not move one Expe-
dition into a hex, bring another Expedition in to 
reinforce it, and then engage in combat with both 
Expeditions. Once a Player has stopped operations 
with a given Expedition, and begins operations with 
a new one, the Movement Segment for the first Ex-
pedition is finished. 
[8.25] To engage in combat Players add the Combat 
Strengths of all their Carracks and Caravels. 
(Remember, a Caravel has an Attack Strength dif-
ferent from its Defense Strength). The Combat 
Strengths of any Soldier units present on board the 
ships are added to the total naval Combat Strength. 
The strengths of Soldiers in the same hex on land are 
not included. The total strengths of each side are then 
compared and reduced to one of the odds/ ratios 
found on the naval CRT; the benefit of fractions 
always goes to the defender. Thus, 16 to 9 would be 
rounded off to 1 to 1, while 9 to 16 would be 1 to 2 
odds. Odds of less than 1-2, or greater than 4-1 use 
those respective columns. A die is then rolled, and 
the result ascertained. 
[8.3] COMBAT RESULTS 
[8.31] All Naval Combat results are in terms of ships 
lost by the attacker (A) or by the defender (D). The 
choice of which ship(s) (and their cargo) should be 
removed is determined by the Player losing the 
ship(s). In the case where two Players have combined 
forces (8.13, 8.14), the opposing Player determines 
which Player is to lose ships. The designated losing 
Player then removes any ships required by the 
combat. 
[8.32] Certain results on the Naval CRT have an 
asterisk (*) next to them. An asterisk means that the 
victorious Player (the one who didn't lose any ships 
in that result) may take a Prize Ship (See 15.44). 
Instead of removing the eliminated ships, the 
victorious Player may elect to take as a Prize one of 
the ships designated as lost by the losing Player. The 
Player keeps that ship and the cargo; all Colonists or 
Soldiers aboard are eliminated; any Explorers, 
Conquistadors or Missionaries may be held for 
ransom or killed, at the whim of the Player. Players 
should thus keep track of what each ship is carrying. 
[8.33] After all casualties are removed, the Phasing 
Player may choose to move on or remain in the hex. 
If he remains, the non-moving Player may not initiate 
combat against those ships until his turn. 
[8.4] THE NAVAL COMBAT RESULTS TABLE (See 
Game-Map) 
[8.5] NAVAL INVASION OF PORTS 
Any Expedition may attack ports - and the land units 
in them - by Naval Invasion. An attack by Naval 
Invasion uses the Land CRT, although it comes from 
the sea. 
[8.51] In order for a Naval Expedition to launch a 
Naval Invasion of a port it must be in the port hex 
and there may not be any enemy ships in that hex. 
Any enemy ships in the hex must first be eliminated 
by naval combat. Since Galleon Fleets may not be 
attacked their presence in a port hex assures the 
safety of that port (but not the safety of other ships!). 
[8.52] If there are no enemy ships present - or if they 
have all been eliminated - then the friendly, moving 
Expedition may land any Soldiers it has on its ships 
in the port hex. (Note that this is an exception to 
7.24 and 15.32). These Soldiers may then attack the 
port in that same Hemispheric Movement Segment. 
(Although Naval Invasion is actually land combat, it 
occurs during the Hemispheric Naval Movement 
Segment and is not considered land combat for the 
purposes of the Sequence of Play). 
[8.53] The combat strengths of all units defending in 
a port hex are doubled for purposes of Naval In-
vasion only. Units attacked in a port by normal land 
combat are not doubled. 
[8.54] The invading land units may use naval sup-
port. The attacking Player may add one Combat 
Strength Point for every friendly Carrack in the hex. 
Thus, if four Soldier detachments were attacking a 
port by Naval Invasion, supported by four 
Carracks, their total would be 20 Combat Strength 
Points (4 Soldiers x 4 = 16 + 4 Carracks = 20). 
[8.55] The strengths of the attacking and (doubled) 
defending units are compared, and the result 
ascertained from the Land Combat Results Table 
(See Land Combat, 11.0). 
[8.56] Defeated units must retreat one hex from the 
combat hex. (See retreat, 11.22). Unsuccessful 
attacking units must retreat into their ships. 
[8.57] A victorious invading Player may choose to 
leave all, some or none of his Soldiers in the port. 
Any units not remaining may embark onto the ships, 
which may continue to move and engage in combat 
under the rules of Continual Movement (see 7.4), 
although they may not attack that port again in that 
turn. 
 
 
[9.0] NAVAL ATTRITION 
GENERAL RULE 
At the end of each Naval Phase, each Player must 
check each Expedition for the possibility of Attri-
tion - losses due to the rigors of an extended, open-
sea voyage (storms, scurvy, mutiny, etc.). The longer 
the voyage, the more likely severe attrition will 
occur. All units removed by attrition are eliminated. 
[9.1] CHECKING FOR NAVAL ATTRITION 
[9.11] Each Expedition must check individually for 
Naval Attrition at the end of the each Naval Phase. 
The level of attrition is dependent upon the length 
of the voyage by the given Expedition. Remember 
that the first Naval Phase has two Naval Movement 
Segments. 
[9.12] To check attrition for a given Expedition, 
the Player totals the number of Bounds traveled by 
that Expedition in that Phase and throws a die, 
cross-referencing the die-roll on the Naval Attrition 
Table with the number of Bounds traveled. The 
result is the unit or units to be removed - either 
units from the ships, or the ships themselves. 
[9.2] THE EFFECTS OF ATTRITION 
[9.21] Naval Attrition affects any units on the ship 
at the time of the Attrition check plus any units that 
had been on that Expedition at any time during the 
course of that Naval Phase (not Game-Turn). Play-
ers suffering attrition should attempt to remove 
units that are actually on the ships at the time of the 
Attrition check; however, if this is not possible, they 
should proceed to units that had been on the Expe-
dition during that Phase. 
[9.22] Players must eliminate only those units 
designated by the Naval Attrition Table. If desig-
nated units were never present on the Expedition 
they do not have to be removed. Only those units 
present at the beginning of the Phase - not the 
Game-Turn - are affected. 
[9.3] PENALTIES FOR EXCEEDING 
PURCHASED BOUNDS 
If an Expedition exceeds the number of Bounds 
purchased and allotted to that Expedition, the 
Player must roll for Naval Attrition for that Expedi-
tion under the "9+" column. If an Expedition 
travels more than nine bounds in any Phase and 
also exceeds the allotted and purchased Bounds, 
that Expedition must roll for Naval Attrition twice 
under the "9+" column. Remember, there are two 
Naval Phases, and all Bounds are purchased before 
these phases, so Players must be careful in allotting 
purchased bounds in the first Naval Phase. 
[9.4] EXAMPLES OF NAVAL ATTRITION 
An Expedition travels in the Trans-Oceanic Seg-
ment from Europe to Guinea (3 Bounds). In the

 
ensuing Hemispheric Segment it uses sixteen 
Movement Points (2 Bounds) to travel to Chichen 
Itza. It has thus used five Bounds total. As the 
Player had purchased seven Bounds for this Expe-
dition in the Council Phase, the Expedition has not 
surpassed its Bounds allotment. It rolls for possible 
Naval Attrition under the five column; the Player 
throws a 3 on the die and must remove one Colonist 
from play (if a Colonist was carried by the Expedi-
tion). The Colonist may either be on the Expedition, 
or have been dropped off by the Expedition in Guinea. 
Now the same Expedition, in the Final Naval Phase, 
travels back to Europe from the Mayan Empire 
(East Coast) using four Bounds. Since it already 
had used five of its Bounds in the previous Naval 
Phase, it has now used a total of nine Bounds, two 
more than its purchased allotment. The Player 
must check for Naval Attrition under the 9+ 
column. 
[9.5] THE NAVAL ATTRITION TABLE 
 
 
[10.0] LAND MOVEMENT 
During the Land Movement Segment, the Moving 
Player may move as many of his land units - Soldiers, 
Colonists, Conquistadors, and Missionaries - as he 
desires. They may be moved in any direction or 
combination of directions, as long as they move only 
on land. All movement restrictions apply equally to all 
units. After movement has been completed by a 
given Player, that Player may then engage in Land 
Combat with any European forces present in any hex 
in which he has units. 
PROCEDURE: 
Units are moved one at a time, or in stacks, tracing a 
path of contiguous, connected hexes through the hex 
grid. As a unit enters each hex it must pay one 
Movement Point from its total Movement Allowance. 
[10.1] HOW UNITS MOVE 
Land Units may be moved only in a Land Movement 
Phase. (However, see Naval Invasion, 8.5). A Player 
may move as many units as he likes, as far as their 
Movement Allowance will permit; he does not have to 
use their full Movement Allowance. Once a unit enters 
an enemy-occupied hex it must stop. It can move no 
further that turn. Colonists not accompanied by 
Soldiers may never move into an enemy occupied hex. 
[10.2] EFFECTS OF TERRAIN 
It costs each unit one Movement Point to enter any 
land hex on the Game-Map. There is no penalty for 
crossing a river; however, all-sea hexsides and alllake 
hexsides may not be crossed. In addition, units may 
not cross Mountain-blocked hexsides. 
[10.3] STACKING 
[10.31] There is no limit to the number of land units 
that maybe present in one hex. Players should note, 
however, that for the purposes of collecting Resources 
(14.0) only the first five Colonist units are counted. 
[10.32] Land units from different nations may not 
peacefully co-exist in the same hex; if land units 
from two countries are in the same land hex combat is 
automatic and mandatory. (See Land Combat, 
11.0). Units cease movement immediately upon en-
tering an enemy-occupied hex. (Exception: see 
15.62). 
[10.4] ZONES OF CONTROL 
There are no Zones of Control. Land units affect only 
the hex they are in. Players should note that the 
presence of an enemy ship in a coastal hex has no 
effect on land movement or land combat. (Do 
not confuse land combat with Naval Invasion, 8.5). 
[10.5] EMBARKING/DEBARKING 
There is no coast in Land Movement Points for land 
units to embark or debark from ships. There is a 
cost to the Naval units, as they must stop in the hex; 
but there is no cost to the land units themselves. 
Land units may not debark in the first Trans-
Oceanic Segment, and Gold may be loaded only in a 
Resource Segment. 
 
 
[11.0] LAND COMBAT 
Combat occurs in the Land Movement Segment 
whenever the units of one Player move into a hex 
occupied by the units of another Players. This combat 
is mandatory; Players may not agree not to have 
combat in such a case. All combat is resolved after 
all movement by that Player has ceased; each Player 
engages in combat in his own Land Movement 
Segment. 
[11.1] HOW TO HAVE COMBAT 
[11.11] Combat occurs automatically when one 
Player moves his units into a hex occupied by an-
other Player's units. The Player who is moving the 
units is the Attacker; the Player who originally 
occupied the hex is the Defender. All units in the 
hex must engage in combat. (However, see 11.13). 
The Player must finish moving all his land units 
before proceeding to land combat. 
[11.12] Combat is resolved by having the Players 
total their Combat Strengths and then compare the 
total as a ratio between the strength of the Attacker and 
the strength of the Defender, all fractions being 
rounded off in favor of the Defender. Thus, if 26 
points attacked 9 points the odds on the CRT would be 
2 to 1; if the attack were 9 to 26, the odds would be 1 
to 3. 
[11.13] Colonist units may use their combat 
strength only on defense. Colonist units may never 
attack. They may be present in a hex with friendly 
attacking units, but they do not aid in the attack. 
They do suffer any adverse results. 
[11.14] Terrain has no effect on combat. 
[11.2] COMBAT RESULTS 
[11.21] The letter 'A' on the CRT refers to the at-
tacking units, and the letter 'D' refers to the defending 
units. A fraction next to the letter refers to the 
fraction of the total number of Soldier detachments 
that the appropriate side must remove, rounding 
upwards. A Player may choose to remove two 
Colonist units for one Soldier detachment, if there 
are at least 2 Colonist units present in the hex for 
each Soldier detachment being so submitted. If only 
Colonists are present, count each Colonist as a Soldier 
detachment for determining losses. Otherwise, 
Colonist losses are voluntary. All units removed are 
considered eliminated. 
[11.22] The "losing" Player must retreat one hex 
away from the hex of combat. All retreating units 
must retreat into the same hex; they may not split up 
during a retreat. Units may not retreat into another 
enemy-occupied hex or through or into impassable 
terrain. If a unit cannot retreat, it is eliminated. 
[11.23] A "losing" Player is determined as follows: If 
a Player is the only one to suffer casualties he is 
considered to be the "losing" Player in that battle. In 
combat results in which both sides take losses, the 
Player with the fewest remaining Soldier Strength 
Points in that hex is the "losing" Player; if both sides 
have an equal number of Soldier Strength Points 
remaining, the Attacker is considered to be the 
 Losing Player. The Losing Player must retreat. 
[11.24] There is no advance after combat. Victorious 
units simply occupy the hex the combat was fought 
in. 
[11.25] Example: The French Player, with six de-
tachments of Soldiers, attacks the English Player 
with two detachments of Soldiers and a Colonist. The 
odds are 24 to 9 (8+1); 2-1. The French Player 
rolls a 6, resulting in A ½ / D ¼ . The French Player 
removes half of his force, leaving three detach-
ments; the English Player must remove one of his 
Soldier detachments (1/4 rounded upwards in this 
case) and retreat from the hex, as he has fewer re-
maining soldier Strength Points than the French 
Player, even though the French Player took greater 
losses in the battle. 
[11.3] THE LAND COMBAT RESULTS TABLE 
[12.0] LAND ATTRITION 
Land Attrition simulates the effects of the rigors and 
hardships of living in a new and potentially hostile 
environment. Land Attrition depends solely on 
location, rather than distance traveled. The number 
of units in a hex and their length of stay have no effect 
on Land Attrition. 
[12.1] AREA ATTRITION LEVELS 
Each Area on the Game-Map has an Attrition Level 
(from I to 4), which may be found on the lower line of 
the Area Information Display. These levels never 
change (unlike Native Levels, . which do). However, 
they may be "adjusted" by the terrain in the hex in 
question, or by the presence of Conquistadors. 
[12.2] EFFECTS OF TERRAIN ON 
AREA ATTRITION LEVELS 
[12.21] A forest/jungle hex adds one to the Attrition 
Level of the Area for units in that hex. 
[12.22] A rough terrain hex adds two to the Attri-
tion Level of the Area. 
[12.23] A Coastal hex, Island hex, or any hex 
which has a river hexside or contains any one of the 
"Great Lake" hexes or hexsides, subtracts I from 
the Attrition Level of the Area. 
[12.24] The Area Attrition Level may never fall below 
'1', or go higher than '5'. 
[12.3] SPAIN AND LAND ATTRITION 
Any Spanish units checking for Land Attrition in any 
hex with a Conquistador subtracts 1 from the die-
roll when checking for Attrition results. 
[12.4] DETERMINING ATTRITION 
Each Player checks for Land Attrition in the Land 
Attrition Segment of the Land Phase. He checks for 
each hex in which he has land units, and the results 
for the hex are applied only to the land units 
actually in the hex. If the unit type designated by 
the Land Attrition Table is not present in the hex 
then that portion of the result is ignored. Example: 
The Spanish Player has 6 Soldier detachments, 1 
Colonist and a Conquistador in hex 3817. The Area 
Attrition Level for the Incan Empire is 3, to which 
two is added as the units are in a rough terrain hex, 
giving a total Attrition Level of Five. The Player 
throws a 5 on the die, reduced to a 4 because of the 
Conquistador. The table result indicates a "2C", 
and thus the Player must remove the one Colonist 
unit. 
[12.5] THE LAND ATTRITION TABLE 
(See the Game-Map) 

 
[13.0] GOLD AND 
TREASURE 
"Gold" represents not only Gold itself, but also gems 
and silver. Gold comes from mines, Treasure from 
Treasure Cities. The value of mined gold is the same in 
all locations on the "mainland", but it is different 
for mines located in the Caribbean. Gold must be 
discovered; after it has been discovered, it is mined 
and/or collected and then physically transported back 
to Europe. Both mines and Treasure Cities may run 
out of Gold and become depleted. 
[13.1] MAINLAND GOLD 
Mainland Gold refers to Gold from any Gold Mine in 
any hex outside the Caribbean. 
[13.11] Any land unit (except a Missionary) may 
discover Gold in a Mine Hex (see Terrain Key on 
Game-Map). If there is a land unit present in a pre-
viously unmined Mine hex at the beginning of the 
Gold Segment of the Land Phase, the Player who 
controls that unit may roll one die in an attempt to 
"discover" Gold. A Gold Mine hex that is Depleted 
may not be mined or discovered again. 
[13.12] If the Player rolls a "1" or "2" on the die, 
he has discovered Gold in that mainland hex. He 
may begin mining as soon as there is a Colonist 
present, taking his Mainland output of 25 Ducats 
per Game-Turn in that Gold Segment and preparing 
for its eventual transport in the ensuing 
Movement Segment. 
[13.13] If the Player rolls a 3, 4, 5 or 6, he has failed to 
discover Gold and may not roll for that hex again in the 
same Game-Turn. He may try again next turn. 
[13.14] Each Mainland mine produces 25 Ducats of 
Gold each Game-Turn that it is mined. The Gold is 
produced in the Gold Segment of the Land Phase and is 
represented by placing a Gold counter of the correct 
total denomination on the hex during that segment. 
[13.15] A mine will continue to produce 25 Ducats of 
Gold per Game-Turn (as long as a Colonist is 
present) until it becomes Depleted. At the end of 
each Gold Segment, after production has been taken 
from each working mine, the Player rolls two dice for 
each mine he runs. If he throws a total of 2 or 11 on 
the dice the mine is Depleted. It may not be worked 
again for the remainder of the game. To indicate 
depletion a Depleted marker is placed on the mine. 
[13.16] A hex that is being mined for Gold (as op-
posed to collecting Treasure) may not be used to 
collect Resources (see 14.2). In addition, any Area 
that has at least one active Gold Mine (not Treasure 
City) has an automatic Area Resource Level of one, 
regardless of the level for other Areas that turn. 
[13.7] In order for a mine to be worked and for 
Gold to be produced and collected, at least one Col-
onist unit must be present in the mine hex at the 
beginning of the Gold Segment. The number of 
Colonists present in the hex has no bearing on the 
output of the mine, as long as there is at least one. 
[13.2] CARIBBEAN GOLD 
[13.21] The Caribbean Area consists of all 
islands between the Deep South and South America, 
excluding the island in hex 2712. 
[13.22] The rules and methods for obtaining Car-
ibbean Gold are exactly the same as the ones for 
Mainland Gold, with the following exceptions: 
a. Caribbean Gold Mines may be discovered on a 
die-roll of 1, 2, 3 or 4. 
b. Caribbean Mines produce 15 Ducats of Gold 
per Game-Turn. 
c. Caribbean Mines become depleted on a die-roll 
of 1 or 2 (using one die only). 
[13.3] TREASURE AND LOOTING 
There are three Treasure Cities on the Game-Map: 
Cuzco, Tenochtitlan, and Chichen Itza. These 
cities contain immense wealth - the legacies of the 
fabled Incan, Aztec and Mayan Empires. They are 
ripe for looting. 
[13.31] To loot a Treasure City, the Player must begin 
a Gold Segment with at least one Soldier detachment 
in the city hex. The Native Level of the Area 
must be '0'; if the Native Level is higher the city 
cannot be looted, although it may be physically 
occupied. The Player does not have to roll a die for 
looting; the presence of the Soldier detachment is 
enough. 
[13.32] Treasure is produced (taken) in the same 
manner as regular Gold (see 13.14). The amount of 
Treasure that may be taken in one Gold Segment 
from each city is as follows: 
City 
Amount In Ducats 
Cuzco 
100/Game-Turn 
Tenochtitlan 
75/Game-Turn 
Chichen Itza 
40/Game-Turn 
[13.33] Treasure Cities may become depleted in 
the same manner as regular Gold Mines (see 13.15). 
However, the two-dice rolls which result in Treasure 
City depletion are 7 or 11. 
[13.34] Resource Points may be taken from a hex in 
which looting is occurring. Looting has no effect 
on collection of resources. 
[13.4] 
TRANSPORTATI
ON OF GOLD AND TREASURE 
In order for Gold and Treasure to be credited to a 
National Treasury it must be physically shipped 
back to Europe. It may first be transported over 
land to a port and there loaded, in the form of Gold 
counters, on board a ship heading (eventually) for 
the Old World. 
[13.41] Gold or Treasure may be shipped from the 
New World to Europe from friendly ports - 
and only from Friendly ports (see 16.5). If a mine or 
city hex is inland the Gold or Treasure must first 
be transported overland to a friendly port. 
[13.42] Gold or Treasure may be transported overland 
either by a Soldier or a Colonist unit. One Soldier or 
Colonist unit may carry an unlimited amount of 
Gold or Treasure. Gold counters may not move by 
themselves. 
[13.43] Once the Gold or Treasure has reached a 
friendly port it may be loaded in the Resource 
Segment by the ship's built-in crew - at no cost to the 
ship or the carrying land unit - aboard a ship or 
Galleon Fleet. No land unit need be present for 
loading. The Gold, once loaded on board a ship, is 
then transported by the ship back to Europe, or to 
another friendly port. 
[13.44] Players must ship Gold or Treasure from a 
friendly port that is in the Area in which the Gold or 
Treasure was produced, or from an Area adjacent 
to that Area. Moreover, if Gold/Treasure is 
shipped from a port in an adjacent Area, that Port 
may not be more than eight Movement Points from 
the mine or city. Thus Gold from California may 
not be shipped from the East Coast of Sonora - the 
nearest coastal hex there is nine movement points 
distant. There is one exception to this: Treasure 
from Cuzco may be shipped to Europe from any 
friendly port in the Rio del Plate Area. 
[13.45] If land units are attacked while carrying or 
guarding Gold or Treasure, and the carrying/ 
guarding units are forced to retreat from the hex, 
the Gold or Treasure is considered to be captured 
by the successfully-attacking units. 
[13.46] If ships are attacked while carrying Gold 
(remember Galleon Fleets may not be attacked) 
and the victor in the naval combat receives a ship or 
ships as a Prize Ship (8.32, 15.44), any Gold or 
Treasure on that ship(s) is now the property of the 
victor and may be transferred to his ships. Other-
wise, ships eliminated in combat take their Gold 
down with them. Each ship's complement of people 
and cargo must be kept track of: if not, the maxi-
mum capacity of the ship is considered to have been 
lost. 
[13.5] ABANDONMENT OF MINES 
At some point in the game, Players 
may determine that it would be more 
profitable to collect Resources than operate Gold 
Mines. Players may therefore wish to abandon their 
mines and collect Resources instead. This is done 
simply by placing an "Abandoned" counter on the 
mine at the beginning of a Gold Segment; no Gold 
may be taken that turn. An 
Abandoned mine is not Depleted; it may be re-
opened at any time simply by removing the Aban-
doned marker at the beginning of a Gold Segment. 
Any Player may revive an Abandoned Mine, re-
gardless of the original ownership. 
[13.6] THE GOLD TABLE 
[14.0] RESOURCES 
Each hex on the Game-Map is capable of producing 
Resources for the Player who occupies it. Resources are 
collected in the form of Ducats earned; they come 
from goods acquired from (as well as sold to) 
settlements in the New World. 
 
[14.1] THE RESOURCE LEVEL 
The Resource Level is a number (found on the Turn 
Record Track) that applies to all colonized Areas on 
the map for the duration of the Game-Turn. The 
Resource Level indicates the number of Ducats a 
Player may add to his Treasury per Colonist. Areas 
showing an "R2" on their Information Display 
yield double the current Resource Level. As the game 
progresses, Players will notice that the Resource 
Level increases. 
[14.2] COLLECTION OF RESOURCES 
[14.21] Each Colonist unit in a hex draws the equi-
valent of the Resource Level in Ducats. However, a 
maximum of five Colonists may draw Resources out of 
a given hex. In addition, no more than 20 Colonists 
from a given nation may draw Resources from a given 
Area. Soldiers may never draw Resources. 
[14.22] Areas in which Gold is being mined are 
severely restricted in their ability to collect Re-
sources (see 13.16). 
[14.23] Resources do not have to be transported. 
They are simply credited to the individual National 
Treasuries in the Resource Collection Phase. 
[14.24] Example: Spain has 13 Colonists in the 
Caribbean on Turn 11. She is not mining for Gold in 
any hex. In her Resource Phase Spain would add 78 
Ducats to her National Treasury: 13 (Colonists) x 
3(Resource Level)=39 x 2(doubled Resource ca-
pability) = 78. If Spain had been mining Gold in 

 
any hex in that Area, she would have received 26 
Ducats in Resources (13 x 1 x 2 = 26), as long as 
none of the 13 Colonists were in mine hexes. 
 
 
[15.01 THE SPECIAL 
UNITS 
[15.1] COLONIST UNITS 
Colonists represent people who were 
willing or persuaded to travel to the 
New World to settle it. They are used 
to discover and supervise the mining of Gold, start 
settlements and Ports, and collect Resources. 
Colonists may not be purchased; they are available 
only through the Random Events Table. Colonists 
must be maintained; however, Colonists not actually 
In the New World at the end of a GameTurn are 
eliminated: Colonist units may not be accumulated 
in Europe. Colonist units have a Combat Strength of 
one, but this may be used only in defense. 
Colonist units come in denominations of one's, 
two's and five's. These denominations may be used 
to make "change". The term "Colonist unit" 
refers to one Colonist. 
[15.2] SOLDIERS 
Soldiers are used for protection, 
conquest and looting. They may be 
purchased at a cost of four Ducats per detachment. 
Two detachments equal a company, and 3 
companies (6 detachments) make up a regiment. 
Soldiers must be maintained. The denominations of 
Soldiers may be interchanged, similarly to Colonists. 
[15.3] EXPLORERS 
Explorers are actual 
historical personages who 
are used to lead Voyages of 
Discovery. 
[15.31] Explorers are available as per the Turn Re-
cord Track. They are identified by name and country. 
Each Explorer appears in Europe at the beginning of 
his turn of appearance. He is available for use in 
leading Expeditions starting with that turn. Ex-
plorers are removed from play - if they have not died 
through Attrition or combat - when so designated by 
the Turn Record Track. Explorers are removed at 
the end of the Turn of designation, even if they are in 
the New World. 
[15.32] Only Explorers may make Voyages of Dis-
covery (18.1); i.e., naval Expeditions to discover new 
lands. An Expedition without an Explorer may land 
only at a friendly port; it may not land at a non-friendly 
port hex. (It may, however, engage in a Naval 
Invasion). 
[15.33] If an Expedition without an Explorer is 
scheduled to arrive at a friendly port and that port is no 
longer friendly or no longer exists when that Ex-
pedition arrives, the Player may choose one of three 
courses: 
1] It may stop in the hex if it is still a port, albeit an 
unfriendly one, hoping to move in on the Hemi-
spheric Movement Phase; or 
21 It may continue moving in the Trans-Oceanic Phase 
to the nearest Friendly port, expending any 
additional bounds necessary by adding the cost in 
Movement Points from the original destination to 
the new destination; or 
3] It may return directly to Europe, after which it 
may not sail for the remainder of the Game-Turn. 
[15.34] There is no maintenance cost for Explorers. 
However, Players may "rent" Explorers from other 
Players at whatever cost and for whatever length they 
agree upon (within the restrictions of their entrance 
and exit). This financial arrangement must be 
encoded in a Treaty. 
[15.35] Explorers may not land or move overland. 
[15.36] The French have an Explorer - "Person." 
- arriving on Game-Turn 17. This is a non-historical 
unit added for the purposes of game balance. Players 
may choose to disregard this Explorer with the 
knowledge that to do so will severely retard French 
opportunities at a critical stage. 
[15.4] PRIVATEERS (The English "Sea Dogs") 
Beginning with Game-Turn 14 (1560), the English 
Player receives Explorers who have a second func-
tion: Privateering. Privateers were semi-official 
pirates "hired" by the Crown to raid and harass 
enemy shipping. 
[15.41] Privateers may always act as normal Ex-
plorers, in which case no special rules attach to 
them. 
[15.42] Privateers wishing to act in their special 
fashion may sail anywhere on the Game-Map without 
rolling for attrition; however, they must purchase all 
Bounds used, and they may never exceed their 
allotted Bounds. In addition, Privateers' Ex-
peditions may never carry Colonists, and the Soldiers 
they carry may never be debarked, unless they are 
engaging in a Naval Invasion. Privateers may 
never transport their own country's Gold; they may, of 
course, obtain enemy Gold in a raid and carry 
that. Privateers may make Discoveries. 
[15.43] The Privateer may have in his Expedition 
as many ships as the Player can afford. 
[15.44] Any ships lost to a Privateer in naval combat 
are automatically considered Prize Ships. The 
Privateer may keep the Gold, ransom the Explorers, 
Missionaries, etc, eliminate the Colonists and 
Soldiers, and sink or keep (and use) the ships a$ he 
wishes. However, each captured ship must be 
manned by one of the Privateer's Soldier detach-
ments. A Privateer may never have an unmanned 
Ship in his fleet; i.e., each ship must carry at least 
one Soldier detachment. 
[15.45] All standard naval combat rules apply to 
Privateers. However, in any combat in which a Pri-
vateer is engaged the odds are increased - or de-
creased - in his favor by one column. Thus a Pri-
vateer attacking at 2-1 would use the 3-1 column; if 
attacked at 1-1, the enemy Player would use the 1-2 
column. 
[15.46] The following Explorers are considered to be 
Privateers: Drake, Raleigh, Grenville and Hawkins. 
They will be Privateers only if in the service of 
England. 
[15.5] CONQUISTADORS 
Conquistadors are "Land 
Explorers"; they represent the 
very particular talents that the 
Spanish brought to the Age of 
Exploration. They have a Land 
Movement Allowance of "8". 
[15.51] Only the Spanish Player receives Conqui-
stadors. 
[15.52] As do Explorers, Conquistadors arrive - 
and depart - according to the Turn Record Track, 
unless they are eliminated by other means. There is no 
cost to outfit or maintain Conquistadors. Con-
quistadors may not be "rented". 
[15.53] If there are Conquistadors present during 
land combat between European nations the 
Spanish Player may add one to the die-roll when 
attacking and subtract one when defending. 
[15.54] When engaging in combat against Natives 
(17.2), the Spanish Player subtracts one from the 
die-roll for each Conquistador present in the Area. 
No more than three may ever be subtracted from a 
Combat Against Natives die-roll. 
[15.55] The presence of a Conquistador in a Land 
hex reduces the effect of Land Attrition. The Spanish 
Player subtracts one from the Attrition die-roll if there 
are any Conquistadors present in the land hex. 
[15.56] Conquistadors must be stacked with a Sol-
dier or Colonist unit at the end of each Land Phase. 
Any Conquistador alone in a hex at the end of Land 
Phase is automatically eliminated. In addition, if all 
units aside from the Conquistador are eliminated 
by combat or attrition, any Conquistador present in 
the affected hex is also eliminated. 
[15.6] MISSIONARIES 
Spain, being a bastion of 
orthodoxy against the her-
esies of the Reformation, felt 
that the New World was as good a place as any to 
gain new souls for Christ. Unfortunately, the 
opinions within the Church of Spain differed as to 
how this was to be accomplished: through kindness 
(relative, of course), or the sword. This rule simulates 
the effect that the Spanish proselytizing effort - and 
the schism within that effort - had upon her ventures 
in the New World. 
[15.61] Each Area in which Spain has either a 
Colonist or a Soldier and in which the Native Level is 
at least '1' must contain a Missionary. Spain may not 
land any units in an area previously unoccupied by 
them which has a Native Level of '1' or higher unless 
those units are accompanied by a Missionary. 
Missionaries are transported from Europe like any 
other land unit. If a Missionary is somehow 
eliminated, it must be replaced in the very next 
Game-Turn. If Spain fails to replace a Missionary, 
she may not collect taxes at home until a replace-
ment arrives. 
[15.62] Missionaries do not have to stack with 
other units. They may not be attacked by European 
forces, which may move through Missionaries as if 
they did not exist. 
[15.63] Missionary counters are printed on both 
sides: one side is the "unknown" state; the reverse side 
has the "Conversion" Rating of the Missionary (see 
15.64). All Missionary counters are placed Unknown 
State up at the beginning of the game. The Spanish 
Player selects one for every Area as needed (see 
15.61). The Spanish Player randomly chooses his 
Missionaries from the Unknown pile and keeps them 
in that state, revealing the true value only when 
they reach the New World. Eliminated Missionaries 
return to the Unknown pile. 
[15.64] Each Missionary has a Conversion Rating. 
This value is either plus or minus a number (e.g., 
+3, -2, etc). 
[15.65] In Combat Against Natives, the Spanish 
Player subtracts one from the die-roll for each plus-
rated Missionary in the Area. A maximum of three 
may be subtracted from this die-roll (presence of 
Conquistadors included). 
[15.66] When determining the Uprising Level for 
Native Uprisings, the value of the Missionary is 
added to the total. (A minus value Missionary will, 
in essence "subtract" his rating). 
[15.67] Missionaries must be maintained; main-
tenance costs 1 Ducat per turn for each Missionary, 
and the Missionary Maintenance is paid auto-
matically and before all other maintenance. The 
only reason the Spanish Player may fail to maintain 
his Missionaries is because the Spanish National 
Treasury is bankrupt. Missionaries are never elim-
inated 
because 
of 
a 
failure 
to 
maintain.

 
 
 [16.0] SETTLEMENTS AND 
PORTS 
[16.1] DEFINITION OF A SETTLEMENT 
AND PORT 
A settlement is any land or partial-land hex that 
contains a Colonist unit. Ports are settlements lo-
cated on islands and/or coastal hexes. Units in a hex 
containing a port or other settlement are considered 
to be within that settlement unless they are ships or on 
board the ships. A settlement is friendly to the Player 
whose Colonists form the settlement. 
[16.2] STACKING RESTRICTIONS 
Any number of units may be in a settlement hex. 
However, for the purpose of collecting Resources, no 
more than 5 Colonists may be considered, even 
though more may actually be present (see 14.21). 
[16.3] EFFECT ON COMBAT 
Settlements offer no protective strength increase in 
combat ability except in the case of a Naval Inva-
sion. Units within a Port hex that are attacked by a 
Naval Invasion (8.5) are doubled on defense against 
the attack. 
[16.4] USE OF SETTLEMENTS 
Only settlements can collect Resources, and only 
settlements may mine Gold. They are not needed for 
looting. Players should note that Settlements may not 
collect Resources and Mine Gold; they can do one or 
the other (13.16). 
[16.5] SPECIAL USE OF PORTS 
Gold may be loaded on ships and transported to 
Europe only through a friendly port hex. Other land 
units may embark or debark through any other coastal 
hex on the Game-Map. Ports may be attacked by 
Land Combat or by Naval Invasion. Remember, a Port 
Is a Settlement (it simply has additional 
characteristics by virtue of being on the coast). 
 
 
[17.0] NATIVES 
Each area in the Game is populated by Natives 
(presently called Indians, thanks to the rather poor 
longitudinal comprehension of the 16th Century 
explorers). There are no counters for Natives. 
Rather, the number of Natives in each Area is 
represented by the Native Level (located in the Area 
Information Display), which represents the level of 
population that presented a threat against Euro-
pean incursions. However, Natives may likewise be 
eliminated by military means (Combat Against Na-
tives) or by epidemics fostered by the Political 
Events Table. 
[17.1] THE NATIVE LEVELS 
Each area has a Native Level. The Native Level is 
the initial and maximum level of Native effectiveness. 
The Native Level may never be increased; however, it 
may be decreased by war and disease. Players should 
keep track of the levels of each Area on a separate 
piece of paper. 
[17.2] COMBAT AGAINST NATIVES 
In the Combat Against Natives Segment of the Land 
Phase, each Player may attempt to lower the Native 
Level of a given Area by attacking the natives. This is 
handled in a somewhat abstract manner. 
[17.21] The Player desiring to attack the natives 
totals the number of Soldier detachments (not 
Strength Points) that his country maintains in the 
Area in question. Players may not join forces for this 
purpose, and there must be at least one detachment of 
Soldiers present in the Area. No Colonists may 
participate in Combat Against Natives. 
 
 
 
 
[17.22] Having determined the number of Soldier 
detachments in the Area, the Player rolls the die 
and cross-references the die-roll with this total 
number. If a number appears on the Combat Against 
Natives Table, the Native Level of that Area is reduced 
by that number. If an "S" appears, the Native Level 
remains the same and the Player loses one 
detachment of Soldiers. 
[17.23] The Spanish Player may subtract one from the 
die-roll for each Conquistador and/or "+" rated 
Missionary present in the Area. However, he may 
never subtract more than three from any die-roll 
in this section. 
[17.24] Once a Level has been reduced to "0", it 
remains at '0', and no further attacks are necessary; 
the Area has no more "effective" natives. 
[17.25] Example: The French Player is in Saguenay, 
which has at that time a Native Level of "2". He has 
four Soldier detachments present in the Area; he 
throws a die and rolls a two. Cross-referencing the 
die-roll with the number of detachments produces a 
result of '2' on the Table, so the Native Level is now 
"0". Had the French Player rolled a "6", the level 
would have remained at "2", and he would have lost a 
Soldier detachment, leaving three. 
[17.26] Combat Against Natives Results Table 
[17.3] NATIVE UPRISINGS 
In the Native Uprising Segment of each Land Phase, 
each Player must check each Area in which he has 
units to see if there is an Uprising against his units. 
This is accomplished in two steps: determining the 
Uprising Level and then determining whether or 
not an uprising has taken place. If an Uprising has 
taken place, the Player then refers to the Native 
Uprising CRT. The units of different Players are 
never combined for any purpose in Native 
Uprisings; it is therefore possible to have several 
Uprisings per Game-Turn within one Area. It is 
likewise possible that one Player's units may 
undergo an Uprising while another's do not. 
[17.31] Whether or not there is a Native Uprising is 
determined by the Uprising Level of that Area for 
that Game-Turn. If the Uprising Level is "1" or 
less, there can be no Uprising. Likewise, if the Native 
Level is '0', there can be no Uprising. 
[17.32] The Uprising Level is determined as fol-
lows: The Native Level of the Area at the time of de-
termination, if it is greater than "0", is added to the 
number of Colonist units of the given Player present in 
that Area. Added (or subtracted) to this is the 
rating of any single Missionary present (if the Player 
is Spain); subtracted from this total is the number 
of Soldier detachments in the Area. The resultant 
number is the Uprising Level for that Player in that 
Area. 
[17.33] Example: The Native Level is "3". A Player 
has eight Colonists, a - 2 Missionary and a regiment 
of Soldiers (or six detachments). The Uprising Level 
is "3": 3 Natives + 8 Colonists - 2 Missionaries - 6 
Soldiers = 3. 
[17.34] If the Uprising Level is higher that "1", the 
Player must determine whether a Native Uprising has 
taken place. He throws one die; if the Uprising Level is 
higher than the die-roll there is a Native Uprising; 
otherwise nothing happens. For example, in the 
above illustration, if the die-roll were a "4", there 
would be no Uprising; if it had been a '2', there 
would be an Uprising. 
[17.35] If an Uprising has taken place the Player 
then rolls the die again to determine its outcome, 
using the Native Uprising CRT (see Game-Map). 
The Player cross-references this new die-roll with the 
number of Soldier detachments in the Area. The 
result is the number of European units eliminated in 
the Area. The Player may remove either 
 
 
 
 
Colonists or Soldier detachments, or a combination of 
both. If the results is "All", all units in the Area must 
be removed. One Missionary is eliminated if the 
result has an (*), or is an "All". 
[17.36] There is a Political Event which mandates 
an immediate Uprising. When this happens, the 
process for determining whether an Uprising has 
occurred is skipped, and the Player proceeds di-
rectly to the Uprising CRT. 
[17.37] Native Uprising Combat Results Table (See 
Game-Map) 
 
 
[18.0] DISCOVERY 
Players gain Victory Points for being the first to 
"Discover" certain Areas and/or hexes. 
[18.1] THE MECHANICS OF DISCOVERY 
[18.11] Discovery is gained by being the first player to 
enter the designated hex - or any hex in the 
designated place of discovery -with any unit in the 
game, within the restrictions listed below. 
[18.12] Discoveries of land hexes may be made by 
any unit that is capable of movement on land. If the 
land hex is also a coastal or island hex, the discovery 
may also be made by an Explorer-led Naval Expedi-
tion. Credit for land discovery is made when the Ex-
pedition reaches the hex. 
[18.13] Naval Expeditions wishing to get credit for 
Discoveries must be led by an Explorer (or Privateer); 
these are called Voyages of Discovery. 
[18.14] Voyages of Discovery expend three Move-
ment Points for any hex in which they are making a 
Discovery; they may not get credit for that Dis-
covery unless they expend these Movement Points. 
[18.15] Players receive Victory Points for making 
Discoveries as per the Discovery Table (18.2). Voyages 
of Discovery receive credit for Discovery only if at least 
one unit from the Expedition returns to a friendly 
port. 
[18.16] The Spanish Player starts the game with 25 
Victory Points - credit for discovering the New 
World! 
[18.2] THE DISCOVERY TABLE 
[19.0] POLITICAL CONTROL 
OF AREAS 
At the end of each Scenario of the game, each Player 
receives Victory Points for each Area on the Game-
Map over which he exerts Political Control. Only 
one Player may control an Area; it is possible that no 
Player will control a given Area. 
[19.1] THE MECHANICS OF CONTROL 
To control an Area, a Player must satisfy the following 
pre-requisites: 
1]At least 50% of all Colonists in the Area must be his; 
and ... 
2] At least 75% of all Soldiers in the Area must be 
his; and ... 
 3] There may be no enemy ports in the Area; and ... 
 4] There must be at least one friendly port (unless 
there are no coastal hexes); and ... 
 5] There must be at least three friendly Colonist 
units and at least two friendly settlements (one of 
which may be the port in No. 4, above). 
 
If the Player satisfies all five of these requirements 
he has Political control over the Area; otherwise no one 
exerts control of an Area. The Native Level has 
nothing to do with Political Control. 

 
[20.0] VICTORY 
CONDITIONS 
The Player with the most Victory Points at the end 
of the Game is the winner. Victory Points are 
awarded as follows: 
1. Two Victory Points for each Ducat in the 
Player's Treasury. (Uncollected Gold does not 
count toward Victory). 
2. 150 Victory Points for each Area under the 
Player's Political Control. 
3. (Variable) Victory Points for Discoveries, as per the 
Discovery Table. 
 
 
[21.0] THE SCENARIOS 
[21.1] THE CAMPAIGN GAME (1495-1600) 
The Campaign version of Conquistador! covers the 
first century of the Age of Exploration, from 1495 to 
1600. It may be played by two or three players (or 
four or five if you use the Portuguese and/or Banker 
options), or it may be tried Solitaire with a little 
care. It covers 21 Game-Turns of play and, with fairly 
experienced Players, should take about seven hours to 
complete. There are no special rules, and Players 
may use any of the given options they wish. The two-
player game is played the same as the multi-player 
game, with the provision that the Players must 
represent Spain and England. 
The Initial set-up for the Campaign Game is as 
follows: 
Spain receives: 1 Colonist in hex 2316 
1 Caravel in Europe (at no cost) 
England and France receive: nothing 
Treasury Levels: 
Spain: 190 Ducats England: 245 
Ducats France: 300 Ducats 
Monarch Ratings: 
Spain: 
A Monarch England: B 
Monarch France: 
C Monarch 
Players receive all Explorers, Conquistadors and 
Privateers as per the Turn Record Track. The 
Spanish Player should note that he must transport a 
Missionary to the Caribbean on Game-Turn 1 as 
per the Missionary rule. 
[21.2] THE SOLITAIRE SCENARIO: 
 Spain In the New World 
The set-up for the Solitaire Scenario is the same as for 
the Campaign Scenario, the only difference being 
that there is but one Player - Spain. In the Solitaire 
Scenario colonization by the Non-Player Countries 
(England, France and Portugal) is handled by an 
abstract set of rules. These countries are not played: they 
do not roll for Random Events, send no Expeditions 
and have no land units. The Solitaire Player is 
Spain, and he does anything a Player may do 
according to the Standard rules. The Player ignores the 
Naval Combat rules, as there will be no enemy ships 
to fight. 
[21.21] Non-Player Colonization 
Whenever the Player obtains a result of "A", "B", 
"C", "D", "1", "3", "4", or "7" on the Random 
Events Table, a Non-Player Country may have col-
onized some Area on the Game-Map. This coloniz-
ation is in addition to whatever effect may be called 
for by the Random Events (6.4). (Players will, of 
course, ignore the instructions of 1, 3 and 6). The 
Player examines the chart below and determines 
 
 
 
 
what nation is engaged in Colonization. Once he has 
determined the nation, he proceeds to the Non-Player 
Colonization Table, rolls two dice, cross-references 
the total with the colonizing nation, and thus 
determines what Area has been colonized. 
Non-Player Colonization Reference 
A, B, or C = 
England 
D, l or 3 = 
France 
4 or 7 = Portugal 
[21.23] Effects of Non-Player Colonization 
If the Non-Player Colonization Table indicates that an 
Area that has not previously been colonized by any 
European country (including Spain) is to be colonized 
by a Non-Player country, that Area's Native Level 
immediately drops to '0', and the Area acquires a 
European Level (of the indicated country) of five. For 
Example: Aztec Emp. has not been colonized 
previously. On the Random Events Table the Player 
tolls two "one's". This produces a result of "A". In 
addition to the fact that the Player's Monarch Ability 
Rating increases to "A", the English will colonize 
some Area on the Game-Map. On the Non-Player 
Colonization Table, the Player rolls a "3", and the 
English colonize the Aztec Empire. Aztec's Native 
Level immediately drops to "0", and it acquires an 
"English" Level of 5. 
[21.24] If a Non-Player nation is directed to colonize 
an Area that has already been colonized by the same 
Non-Player country, the European Level in that Area 
is increased by S. There is no maximum European 
Level. 
[21.25] If a Non-Player country is directed to col-
onize an Area that has previously been colonized by a 
different Non-Player country, the Player ignores this 
result and rolls again on the Non-Player Col-
onization Table until he obtains an Area that has 
not previously been colonized (or has been 
colonized by the appropriate country). 
[21.26] If a Non-Player country is directed to col-
onize an Area that currently has at least one 
Spanish Colonist unit in it, the Area does not gain a 
European level. However, that Area does not 
produce any Resource points for the Spanish that turn. 
In addition, the Spanish Player loses one half of the 
Soldier detachments and one quarter of the Colonists 
(rounded down) that he has present in that Area. 
If any Spanish ships are present in the Area, the 
Spanish Player must remove one of them. 
[21.27] Non-Player Effects on Resource Collection 
If an Area has a European Level above "0", the 
Spanish Player may not mine or loot gold in that 
Area, even if mines are discovered and have not been 
Depleted. In addition, the Spanish Player may not 
collect Resource Points from that Area. The 
Spanish Player may begin producing Gold and col-
lecting Resources in the turn after the European 
Level of the Area has been reduced to "0". 
[21.28] Non-Player European Combat 
The Spanish Player may. attempt to reduce the 
European Level of an Area by attacking the 
Europeans in that Area in the same manner as 
Combat Against Natives (17.0). However, the number 
of Soldier detachments the Spanish Player is using to 
attack the European level is halved (rounded down) 
when referring to the Combat Against Natives 
CRT. Thus, it takes 2 detachments to equal one for 
this purpose. In addition, a result of "S" on that 
table indicates that two Soldier detachments are re-
moved, rather than one. There is no such thing as a 
Non-Player European Uprising. 
[21.29] The Spanish Player receives Victory Points 
as per Section 20.0. However, he may not receive 
Discovery credit for North America, Hudson's Bay, the 
St. Lawrence and Mississippi Rivers, or the Great 
Lakes. The Player is considered to "control" an Area 
only if the European Level of that Area is "0". If the 
Player has 4500 or more Victory Points at the end of 
the Game he is considered to have won. 
TURN RECORD TRACK ERRATA 
On Turn 7, Vaca is incorrectly shown as an Sc; he is 
actually an Ee. 
[22.0] THE TREATY OF 
TORDESILLAS 
The Treaty of Tordesillas (1494) delineated the New 
World territorial rights of the Spanish and Portu-
guese. This rule recreates the effect of this on the 
game. 
[22.1] IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TREATY 
[22.11] There is no Native Level in Brasil; rather, 
there is a Portuguese Level of "10". The Portuguese 
Level acts in all ways like a Native Level with the fol-
lowing exceptions: 
[22.12] There is no Portuguese Uprising counterpart 
to Native Uprisings. However, all other countries 
may launch campaigns against the Portuguese Level 
much as they do against the Native level. See 21.28 
for particulars. Missionaries and Conquistadors have 
no affect on anti-Portuguese combat. 
[22.2] EFFECT OF THE TREATY 
[22.21] If the Portuguese Level of Brasil is '1' or 
higher, no country can control Brasil. 
[22.22] No country can mine Gold or take Re-
sources from Brasil if the Portuguese Level is '1' or 
higher. 
 
 
 
[21.22] THE NON-PLAYER COLONIZATION TABLE 
 
Die 
England
France
Portugal
Deep South 
Aztec Empire 
Aztec Empire 
Venezuela 
Caribbean 
Great Lakes 
East Coast 
Saguenay 
Atlantic Coast 
Caribbean 
California 
Great Lakes 
Midwest Plateau 
Rio del Plate
 
Roll 
Saguenay 
Incan Empire
East Coast 
Sonora 
Panama 
Mayan Empire 
 

 
 
[22.3] SPANISH ANNEXATION OF 
PORTUGAL 
As a result of King Sebastian's disastrous African 
campaign of the late 1570's, an exhausted and fi-
nancially barren Portugal was 'annexed' politically by 
Spain. The following rules simulate the chances - and the 
effects - of this happening. 
(22.31] Through Turn 16 (1570), at the beginning of 
each Game-Turn in the Royal Council Phase, the 
Spanish Player rolls a die and adds the resultant 
number to the Portuguese Level. The Portuguese 
Level may never be more than '10'. On a die roll of 
"1", there is no increase; with a "2", "3", or "4", the 
increase is one; a "5" means an increase of two; and 
"6" means an increase of three. 
[22.32] Starting with Game-Turn 17, the Spanish 
Player does not roll for replenishing the Portuguese Level 
- and Brasil gets no further "Portuguese re-
inforcements". Rather, the Spanish Player rolls the die 
and consults the following table: 
Die-Roll 
Event 
Nothing happens; roll again next turn 
Nothing happens; Spanish Player does 
not roll again for any reason 
3,4,5 
Spain gains nominal control of Por-
tugal and Brasil. Portug. Level re-
duced to '0'; no other effect. Spanish 
Player does not roll again for any reason. 
Same as 3, 4, 5 - but Spanish Player 
does roll again next turn; if he rolls a 5 
or 6 at the beginning of any turn 
becomes 
independent 
- 
all 
foreign 
units 
are 
eliminated 
and 
Brasil becomes impassable to all 
units. 
 
 
[23.0] PORTUGAL AS A 
FOURTH PLAYER 
If more than three Players wish to play, a fourth 
Player may be Portugal. There are no counters for the 
Portuguese; Players will have to supply their own 
counters if they wish to take advantage of this 
optional rule. 
[23.1] THE PORTUGUESE SET-UP 
[23.11] The Portuguese Player receives the same 
number of Soldier and Colonist counters as the 
other Players. 
[23.12] Portugal's Monarch is an 'A' at the start of 
the Game; the National Treasury contains 175 
Ducats. 
[23.13] Portugal receives the following Explorers, 
with the corresponding Game-Turn duration: 
Arrive: 
Depart: 
Diaz 
Da Gama 
Turn 3 
Corte Real 
Cabral 
Turn 5 
Vespucci 
Turn 3 
d' Albaquerque 
Turn 4 
Sequeira 
Turn 8 
[23.14] In addition to the above Explorers, the Por-
tuguese Player has the use of "Cabot, S." for Game 
Turns 7, 8, 9, and 10. The English Player has use of 
Cabot, S. for Game-Turns 6 and 11 only. Cabot 
may still be 'rented' as any other Explorer. 
[23.15] In all other aspects of the game, the Por-
tuguese Player follows all the rules. If this option is 
chosen, the Players may not use 22.0, The Treaty of 
Tordesillas Option. 
[24.0] THE GERMAN 
 BANKERS 
For Players who wish to increase the scope and dimension 
of the Game, and get involved in economic and diplomatic 
variations, this is a fairly abstract simulation of 
16th Century fiscal realities. There should be at least 
three active countries playing the game - aside from 
the Banker - if this option is to work well. The Banker 
player represents the large German Banking Houses: 
Fugger, Walser, and so on. All rules are the same as in 
the standard game, except as noted below. Players should 
note that this option places a premium on economics 
and diplomacy, and that the German 
Banker/Player has quite a bit of control over the 
destinies of the different countries. 
 
 
[24.1] MECHANICS OF PLAYING THE 
GERMAN BANKERS 
[24.11] One Player takes the role of the German 
Bankers. In essence, he plays a somewhat non-active 
position, controlling destiny through finance. He may 
not send out any Expeditions, nor make any "active" 
move on the game map. 
[24.12] When using this option, the following ad-
justments are made: 
1) The initial Treasury Levels are as follows: 
France: 240 Ducats 
England: 165 Ducats 
Spain: 110 Ducats 
Portugal: 100 Ducats 
 
2) The French Player does not get the following Ex-
plorers at any time during the game: Villegagnon, 
Ribaut, and Personne. In addition, Gonneville is 
available during Game-Turns 2-3, not 1-2. 
3) Cabot, S. is available as per Case 23.14. 
[24.13] When rolling for taxes (only) standard 
Players add one to their die-roll. (The German 
Player does not). 
[24.14] The German Banker has a permanent 
"Monarch" rating of 'A'. The only Random Event 
the German Banker Player rolls for is taxes; he ig-
nores all other Random Events. 
[24.15] The initial level of the German Banker's 
Treasury is 260 Ducats. 
 
[24.16] The German Bankers may loan money to 
the other Players at any rate deemed expedient by 
the Players involved in the transaction. No other 
Players may make loans or transfer funds in any 
way to another Player. If a Player cannot or will not 
repay a loan at the agreed upon date, the German 
Banker may repossess any ships owned by the 
Player that are located in Europe at any time after the 
negotiation of the loan. Ships are repossessed at the 
following rates; for each 4 Ducats, 1 Caravel; for each 
8 Ducats, 1 Carrack; for each 40 Ducats, 1 Galleon 
Fleet: Ships repossessed are taken complete with 
cargo. They may not return to Europe and unload 
them and then be repossessed; they are taken as soon as 
they reach Europe, complete with cargo. 
[24.17] Players in debt to the German Bankers 
must pay off loans before paying any maintenance. 
The Spanish Player still always pays his Missionaries' 
maintenance before anything else. 
[24.18] If any Player rolls "Costly European War" 
(Event Nr. 5) on the Political Event Table, the German 
Banker must deduct 40 Ducats from his Treasury. 
 [24.2] GERMAN BANKER EXPLORERS 
[24.21] The German Banker Player receives certain 
Explorers which he may rent to other countries. He may 
not use them himself. (Players will have to supply 
their own counters.) 
[24.22] The German Explorers, and their turns of 
arrival/ departure are as follows: 
Arrive: 
Depart: 
Alfinger 
Turn 7 
Turn 8 
Spires 
Turn 9 
Turn10 
Federman 
Turn 9 
Turn 9 
Von Huten 
Turn 10 
Turn 11 
All arrangements as to the length of "rental" and so forth 
are up to the Players involved. 
 
[24.3] GERMAN BANKER CONTROL 
The German Bankers may demand as partial 
repayment of their loans a percentage of the profits of any 
Expedition(s) they help to finance. (This was the normal 
way of doing business at that time.) If a Player has 
Political Control over an Area, but at least 50% of 
the profits from that Area (Gold + Resources) are 
going to the German Bankers, the German Banker, 
not the actual owning Player, is considered to be 
"in Control" of that Area for Victory purposes. 
 
[24.4] GERMAN BANKER VICTORY 
The German Banker Player receives 3 Victory 
Points for every Ducat in his Treasury at the end of the 
Game. However, he may not get Discovery credit 
for any Discovery. He is considered to be the winner if 
he has the most Victory Points at the end of the Game. 
In addition, whatever his Victory Point total, if his 
Treasury Level is greater than any two other country's 
combined, the German Banker has scored a 
"technical" victory. (i.e., while the other countries 
may have received the glory, the banking houses are 
reaping the more tangible benefits.) 
SUGGESTED READING 
The Age of Reconnaissance, by J. Parry (World 
Publishing Co., Cleveland, 1963). 
The European Discovery of America-Northern 
and Southern Voyages, by Samuel Elliot Morrison 
(Oxford University Press, New York, 1971, 1974). 
The World Atlas of Exploration by Eric Newby 
(Rand, McNally, New York, 1975). 
Ancient America, M. Edey, Editor (Time-Life 
Books, New York, 1967). 
The Conquest of Mexico by William Prescott 
(Heritage Press, New York, 1949). 
The Conquest of the Incas by John Hemming 
(Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, New York, 1967). 
Imperial Spain, 1469-1716 by J.H. Elliott (Mentor 
Books, New York, 1963). 
Conquistadors In North American History by Paul 
Horgan (Farrar, Strauss & Co., N.Y., 1963). 
The Sea Dogs by Neville Williams (MacMillan and 
Co., New York, 1975). 
DESIGN CREDITS 
Game Design: Richard Berg 
Physical Systems Design and Graphics: 
Redmond A. Simonsen 
Development: Greg Costykian 
Production: Larry Catalano, Manfred F. Milkuhn, 
Kevin Zucker, Linda Mosca 
Acknowledgments: Nathan Mitchell, Lawrence Er-
colino, Joe Seliga, Whitley Strieber 
Playtesting: Thaddeus Kubis, Eric Goldberg, Paul 
Morales, Tom Gould, Mat Rifkin.