A traditional board game for 2 to 4 players
INTRODUCTION
Conspirateurs is a traditional board game from France.
It was probably invented sometime before 1800, but
after the French Revolution (1789) as it seems to be
inspired by the rivalling factions of that time. The game
resembles Halma and Chinese Checkers - players hop
over friendly or enemy pieces to get to their destinations.
The players attempt to bring their 20 ‘conspirateurs’ into
the 39 shelter holes. 
EQUIPMENT
- Board (2 pads)
- 68 ‘cone-spirateurs’: 21 black, 21 white, 15 red, 11 blue
- Carrying case
RULES FOR 2 PLAYERS
Play begins with an empty board. Players choose a
colour (black or white) and take all the 21 cones (the
conspirateurs) of that colour, placing one before them so
everybody knows which colour corresponds to each
player. Black goes first. Players alternate turns. The
game proceeds in two phases:
Drop phase: Players place one cone per turn on any
vacant cell on the special 9×5 centre area of the board.
Players may not move a cone until all their cones have
been placed. After the drop phase is completed, one of
the players shouts a warning that they have been
discovered, and the conspirateurs scatter to hide in
sanctuaries. A sanctuary may hold at most one man.
The first to bring all his conspirateurs to sanctuary wins
the game.
Move phase: If a conspirateur starts the turn already on
a sanctuary then it can’t move. Players move one man
per turn to a vacant point one step in any direction
orthogonally or diagonally, or players may leap over an
adjacent man (friend or foe; and whether the jumpee is
on a sanctuary or not) and land on the vacant point
immediately beyond. Multiple leaps are allowed in a
single turn: a man may continue to leap in any direction
as long as there are jumps to be made, and may stop
jumping at any point (leaps are not compulsory). A
jumped man is not captured (there is no capturing in
Conspirateurs). 
GAME END
The game ends when a player brings all her
conspirateurs to shelter holes (sanctuaries), thus
winning the game.
ADAPTATION FOR 3 PLAYERS
In a 3-player game, each player takes 15 cones of the
same colour (Black, White or Red) and places one
before her (leaving the remaining 14 for the Drop
Phase).
Play as usual, in clockwise order, and with the following
exception: The cell indicated below (in green) is also
considered a sanctuary.
ADAPTATION FOR 4 PLAYERS
- based on online sources -
This variant is played by two partnerships with its
members sitting in opposing sides of the board
(Black+Blue vs White+Red).
Each player takes the 11 cones of her colour (black,
white, red or blue) and places one before her (leaving
the remaining 10 for the Drop Phase).
Play in clockwise order. The first partnership to bring all
his conspirateurs to sanctuary wins the game.
Rulebook © 2018 Néstor Romeral Andrés.
The game board 
comprises 17×17 square 
cells. At the centre there is 
a specially coloured area 
of 9×5 cells representing a 
"secret meeting place". On 
the board perimeter, 39 
cells are coloured to 
identify sanctuaries.
Setup example.
Example of valid 
openings for Black.
The exception sanctuary