CoraQuest began life on a boring Covid-19 lockdown afternoon. My daughter Cora (age 8) and I (age
45) were fed up with doing homeschooling worksheets and so decided we’d mix things up and create
a board game. Things snowballed, and the game that started on our kitchen table evolved to
become the game you now hold in your hands!
CoraQuest is a cooperative game - this means that the
players are on the same side and win or lose as a
team. In the game, you will work together to guide
four adventurers who are exploring a dungeon, fighting
monsters, and finding treasure.
You start each game of CoraQuest by choosing a
regular or long game (45-60 minutes or 60-75 minutes)
and picking one of the adventures from the Quest book.
Maybe you will be battling a giant snake, collecting
spider eggs for a potion, or going on a mission to
rescue a stolen cheesecake!
Love, Dan & Cora
Then, you set off into the dungeon to explore it, section
by section. Each turn of a corner could see you battling
orcs, dodging traps, or revealing the next part of the
story. Be careful though, if any of the heroes are
defeated, everyone loses!
Once you’ve had a few games of CoraQuest you might
also want to make up your own adventures, heroes, and
enemies using our web apps and customisation guide.
We really hope you have as much fun with our game as
we had making it!

How to Play
CoraQuest takes place over a
number of rounds. Each round
consists of three phases that are
completed in the following order:
1. Hero Phase
2. Enemy Phase
3. Countdown Phase
Track threats, ready heroes and
begin a new Hero Phase
Setup
Choose an adventure and find the set up guide
for it in the Quest book.
Shuffle the Basic Dungeon cards numbered 2-13
together (for the long game, also add Basic
Dungeon cards 14-17). Deal these cards into 4 equal
face down piles.
A Story Dungeon card lettered A-R will be added
to each of the four piles and the piles will then
be placed in a particular order to form the deck.
Detailed instructions about setting up your
Dungeon deck can be found in the Quest book.
Place the Explore marker on top of the
Dungeon deck.
Choose four heroes to go on the quest. These can
be any combination of heroes included in the
base game and heroes you have made yourself. For
your first few games we recommend you use the
pre-made heroes.
Divide the heroes between the players however
best fits the people playing the game. Younger
players may want to control one hero, whereas
older players might feel comfortable managing
two, or even three, if needed.
Each player takes the standees, Hero cards, Hero
Health dials, Countdown tokens, and Starting
Equipment cards for their heroes. Starting
Equipment is shown on the Hero cards. Set the
Hero Health dials to match the starting health of
each hero as shown on the Hero cards with their
non-determined side face up.
Gather the Enemy cards as listed in your adventure
and place their standees in easy reach. Separate the
cards and place them with the green ‘standard’ banner
face up.
Place the Countdown track next to the Dungeon
deck. It should just show levels 1 and 2 unless stated
otherwise in your adventure setup.
Place each hero's Countdown token next to the
Countdown track. Place the Threat token on level 2
unless stated otherwise in your adventure setup.
Shuffle the Treasure cards to form a face-down deck.
Place the Special Item deck next to the Treasure deck.
Place the Dungeon Entrance card, numbered 1, in the
middle of the play area.
Place the four hero standees onto separate empty
squares on the Dungeon Entrance card.
Place all the remaining components to the side of
the play area; not every component is needed in every
adventure.
When ready, start by
reading the introduction
to your chosen adventure
from the Quest Book.
You are now ready to play CoraQuest!

Hero Phase
During the Hero Phase you activate your
heroes. Each hero takes a complete turn
before another hero’s turn starts, but there is
no set turn order during the Hero Phase. You
may use the four heroes in any order you
choose.
There are two types of actions: Free and Full.
A hero may take as many Free Actions as you
wish and up to two Full Actions.
Name
Starting Weapon: The
weapon from the Starting
Equipment deck that the
hero begins the game with.
Health: Damage a hero can
take before they are defeated.
Movement: Squares a hero may Move in one action.
Special Ability: An
ability a hero can use by
placing their Countdown
token on the Countdown
track.
Determined Prompt:
A reminder to flip
the Hero Card over to
its “Determined” side.
Attack dice: The dice
that are combined with
the weapon dice and rolled
when a hero Attacks.
Reveal Dungeon
Use Item card
Search
Swap Item
Revive
A hero may take as many Free Actions in a
turn as they wish. Free Actions can be used at
any point during your turn and may interrupt
Full Actions. A hero cannot use a Free Action
during another hero's turn.
Reveal Dungeon
If a hero is standing on the edge of a Dungeon
card, and is next to an empty space where
another card could be placed, then you may
choose to Reveal the next section of the
dungeon. You may Reveal multiple
Dungeon cards in a turn if you wish.
If this is the first Dungeon card revealed from
the deck this round, remove the Explore marker
and place it in front of you. This reminds you
that a Dungeon card has been revealed this
round.
Use Item Card
If a hero has any Item cards (such as
potions or magical items) with effects shown
on them, you may use any of these cards as a
Free Action, unless the card explicitly states
that it takes Full Actions to use it.
Take the top card of the Dungeon deck and
place it adjacent to the hero. You may rotate
the card as you wish, but one entire edge of
the Dungeon card must line up with the card
already on the table. The card must have at
least one floor square (not wall square) joining
orthogonally (not diagonally) onto another
floor square on the Dungeon card that the
revealing hero is standing on. A new Dungeon
card may not be placed over the top of an
existing Dungeon card in any way.
If the new Dungeon card has enemy Spawn
Spots on it, place an enemy of the matching
type on each of the spots. They will activate in
the next Enemy Phase.
If there are not enough enemy standees of a
type you need, place all available standees
on the Spawn Spots of your choice. Any
other spots do not spawn - the heroes are
probably in enough trouble as it is!
If the Dungeon card is one of the four
Story Dungeon cards, indicated by this
scroll and a corresponding letter (A-R),
immediately read out the matching
If any newly revealed Dungeon card has open
Treasure chests on it, place a Treasure chest
token to cover each of the chests shown.
passage from the Quest book and then carry out
any special instructions. In all other ways Story
Dungeon cards are like regular Dungeon cards.
A hero can carry as many items, weapons, and
sets of armour as they wish. However, they may
only use one weapon and one item of armour
at a time. It is a Free Action to switch between
them, but although you can freely exchange
items in use at any time, you may never use
two weapons or two sets of armour when
carrying out one action.
Use for free
Must align
Must join to an edge that
the hero is standing on
Place enemies on their Spawn
Spots and Treasure chest
tokens on any open chests
Floor must
meet floor
Story scroll

The token
will come
off after:
Place the
hero’s token
Heroes may Move a number of squares up to
the value of the movement number on their
Hero card (plus or minus any modifiers from
spells, abilities, or items).
A hero may Move orthogonally or diagonally.
A hero may pass through a square occupied by
another hero, but must not end their
movement on an occupied square. Heroes may
not pass through squares occupied by
enemies. A hero may not pass through walls or
onto an unrevealed Dungeon card. Other
images on a Dungeon card do not affect
movement.
Search
If a hero is on or adjacent (orthogonally or
diagonally) to a square with a Treasure chest
token on it, you may choose to Search. Draw
the top card of the Treasure deck and place it
face up beside the Hero card. Remove that
Treasure chest token from the Dungeon card
to show that it has been searched. Each
Treasure chest can only be searched once.
A hero cannot Search a Treasure chest if there
is an enemy on that square.
Swap Item
You may Swap any number of Item cards with
one other hero, providing they are adjacent to
you (either orthogonally or diagonally). Swaps
do not have to be equal, one hero may give a
card to another and receive nothing in return,
providing both players agree.
Revive
Use this action to revive a Stunned adjacent
hero. More details on being Stunned can be
found on page 14.
Special Abilities
Each hero has a Special Ability that you
may use in certain situations. This
ability is printed on the Hero card. It
does not take a Full Action to trigger a Special
Ability unless it is specifically stated in its
description.
When you use a Special Ability, place the
hero’s Countdown token on the Countdown
track at level 2. The tokens will move down the
Countdown track as described in the
Countdown Phase section of these rules (see
page 12). A hero cannot use their Special
Ability while their Countdown token is on the
Unless stated otherwise on the Hero card,
Special Abilities do not cost any actions to use.
Healer Cat can move up to 5 squares for 1
action and can go anywhere inside the blue
boundary, except on spaces already occupied by
a hero or an enemy.
Halfling is too far from the Treasure chest to
search it. Spear Woman has searched a different
chest and the Treasure token has been removed.
Healer Cat could move outside
of the boundary if
she Moves, Reveals
a new Dungeon
card, and still
has remaining
movement.
Spear Woman found a
magic ring when she
drew a card from the
Treasure deck.
She could use a
Swap Item action
and give the ring
to Dwarf.
Healer Cat’s
movement limit

In Line of sight
In Range
An Attack is resolved by following these steps in order:
Gather and Roll the Attack dice combining the dice shown
on the Hero card plus any shown on the weapon that the
hero is using for this Attack.
Attacks will Deal one damage for each successful “splat”
symbol rolled.
Damage
Heroes and enemies both start with a certain amount of
health, as shown on their respective cards. Heroes and Big
Bosses (enemies with a health over 5), use a Health dial. In
setup, or when a Big Boss spawns, set the dial to show the
starting health. Attacks will deal damage; for each damage
dealt reduce the number on the Health dial by one. Should
the dial reach ‘0’ the hero or enemy is defeated. For
information on defeated heroes see page 13. Normal
enemies do not have Health dials, instead, for each
damage dealt to them they gain a Damage token. Place
this either next to, or under, their standee.
If an enemy has Damage tokens equal to or greater than
their health, they are defeated. Defeated enemies are
removed from the game.
If a hero or enemy heals, increase the Health dial or
remove Damage tokens equal to the amount healed. A
hero or enemy can never exceed its starting health.
If a hero rolls no successes during an Attack action, the hero will
Become Determined. Flip over the Hero card to the
“Determined” side. Whilst they are Determined, heroes roll an
extra White dice when they Attack. The next time that hero rolls
a success, the Hero card must be flipped back to its normal side.
Pick a Target that you wish to Attack. The hero
must have a clear line of sight to the target and
it must be within the range of their weapon.
Line of sight
Clear line of sight is an imaginary straight line from
any corner of the square the attacker is standing
on, to any corner of the square the target is
standing on without anything blocking the line. If
any part of this straight line passes through and /
or along the side of any square occupied by either
another hero, an enemy, or a wall, then the line of
sight is blocked.
Range
Each weapon has a range, shown on the right-hand
side of the Item card. To measure range, count the
number of squares between the attacker and the
target, counting the target’s square, but not the
attacker’s. If the number of squares is less than or
equal to the range of the weapon, then the target
is considered to be within range.
Pick a Target
Roll the Attack dice
Deal Damage
or Become Determined
Once all the heroes have
completed a turn, proceed
to the Enemy Phase.
A hero may take the same
Free or Full action more than
once and may take actions in
any order.
About Actions
Full Actions cannot interrupt
each other. For example, a
hero cannot use part of a
Move action, do an Attack
action, and then use the rest
of that same Move action.
Free Actions can interrupt
Full Actions. For example, a
hero can use part of a Move
action, do a Reveal Dungeon
action, and then use the
remainder of that same
Move action.
Once a hero has taken all of
their actions, “exhaust” their
Hero card (by rotating it
sideways) to show that they
have completed their turn.
A hero does not have to use
all their Full Actions if you do
not wish them to do so;
however a hero cannot save
actions between turns or
rounds.
Wizard Woman’s
Wand has a range of
up to 3 squares,
so doesn’t reach
Goblin A.
Spear Woman
blocks Wizard
Woman’s line of
sight to Goblin B.
Goblin C is in
Wizard Woman’s
line of sight and
range.
Combine
Roll
Miss
Deal
Flip!
B
g
B
o
s
s
t
h
D
r
o
t
h
D

Enemy Phase
During the Enemy Phase, each of the enemies
activate. You may choose in which order they
activate; each enemy in the dungeon must
perform all of its actions, if possible.
All enemies have two Full Actions in each
Enemy Phase. Each enemy has two types of
Full Action available to them; Attack and Move.
The same action may be used more than once
(e.g. enemies can Move twice or Attack twice).
Enemies do not take any Free Actions.
Enemies must use their actions in a specific
way. If they can Attack a hero, they do so, if
not, they Move in order to be able to Attack.
An enemy must Attack a hero if they are
in range and they have line of sight. If there
are multiple potential targets, the enemy will
Attack the closest one. If there is a tie for
which target hero is closer, the players may
choose which target the enemy attacks.
An enemy may Attack a hero who is within
range and within line of sight. The range and
line-of-sight rules for enemies are the same as
those for heroes (see page 8).
Roll the Attack dice listed on the Enemy card.
Each success rolled deals one damage to the
target hero. For more on health and damage
see page 9.
Enemies do not become determined if they do
not roll any successes.
Some Big Boss enemies also cause special
status effects when they Attack (see page 14).
If the hero is wearing armour, they are able to
make an armour roll to avoid some, or all, of
the damage taken. Roll the dice shown on the
armour Item card. For each success that is
rolled, deduct one damage from the total
damage dealt by the enemy.
REMEMBER: If any hero ever reaches zero
health, you immediately lose the game!
If an enemy is unable to Attack any hero, then it
will Move towards the closest hero, using the
most direct route. It will continue until it first
comes within range and has line of sight for an
Attack. It then stops moving and may use any
remaining Full Actions to Attack. If there is a tie
for which hero is closer, the players may choose
which hero the enemy moves towards.
Enemies may Move a number of squares up to
the value of their movement number shown on
their Enemy card. The movement rules for
enemies are the same as those for heroes (see
page 6), except that they can move through
squares occupied by other enemies but not
heroes.
The orc will
attack the
Dwarf as he is
the closest hero.
Big Boss
special power!!
The players can choose if the troll
moves and attacks Spear Woman or
Wizard Woman as they are a equal
distance away.
Difficulty: A green banner
shows that you are using the
“standard” version. An orange
banner with the word “tough” is
a more challenging opponent!!
Health: Damage the enemy can
take before it is defeated
Movement: Squares the enemy
may move in one action
Range: How many squares away the
enemy can reach with its attack
Attack dice: The dice that the
enemy rolls when it attacks
Name and spawn location

The Countdown Phase is carried out
in three steps:
Reset all Hero cards (turn the cards upright
again).
Move all hero Countdown tokens that are
on the Countdown track down one level. If
this moves a token off the bottom of the
Countdown track, the hero may use their
Special Ability again next round.
If the Explore marker is in front of a
player, return it to the top of the Dungeon
deck. If the Explore marker is still on top of the
Dungeon deck or the deck is empty, move the
Threat token down one level on the
If the Threat token moves off the bottom of
the Countdown track, giant spiders start
coming out of their webs! Put a Spider token in
the central square of every Dungeon card with
a web on it. If the central square
is already occupied, put the
Spider token into an empty
adjacent square of your choice.
Note: The Dungeon Entrance
card also has a web on it.
Once the spiders are in the
dungeon they act like all other enemies,
moving towards and attacking the heroes in
the Enemy Phase. Each spider will remain in
play until it is defeated by the heroes.
Once you have put out all the spider tokens,
place the Threat token back on level 2 of the
Every round ends with a Countdown Phase,
even when the final Dungeon card has been
revealed. The threat of more spiders spawning
remains until all the end game conditions for
the adventure have been met.
At the end of the Countdown
Phase, the round is over. The next
round starts with a Hero Phase.
Countdown Phase
End of the Game
Each adventure has
different winning and losing
conditions. Refer to your
chosen Quest if needed.
There is text in the Quest
book to read out at the end
of the game, depending on
the outcome.
Remember - if any hero is
defeated, you lose,
regardless of the adventure
you are playing.
Game Options
These suggested changes can be used to tailor
CoraQuest to better fit your players.
Difficulty Level
CoraQuest is designed to be challenging, but
allows for players to sometimes make unwise
or rash choices. If you are finding that
CoraQuest is either too easy or too difficult
then you are able to change the difficulty level.
To make CoraQuest easier
Instead of the game ending as soon as any
hero is defeated (see page 9) you can make
the game easier by using the Second-Wind
token. With this optional rule, if a hero is
defeated then one of two things happens:
If the Second-Wind token has not been used
already in this game, flip it over to the empty
side. Remove all status effects from the hero
and set their Health dial to 4.
If the Second-Wind token has been used
already in this game (i.e. it has been flipped to
the empty side), then the hero has been
defeated and the players lose the game.
A hero on zero health cannot be healed in any
way, other than by using the Second-Wind
token.
To make CoraQuest more difficult
Each enemy card has a “standard” and a
“tough” side. To increase the difficulty level
play with one or more “tough” versions of the
enemies. The more tough versions you
include, the more challenging the game.
Be Creative!
Feel free to make up your own variant rules
for CoraQuest. For example, if there are five
people who want to play then you could try
one person being a “Dungeon Keeper” and
controlling the spawned monsters and making
all their decisions.
This copy of
CoraQuest is
yours and you
can do what
you want
with it!
Crossbow Dude’s Countdown token
has moved down to level 1.
Halfling’s Countdown token has moved down
from level 1, off the Countdown track and so they
will be able to use their special ability next turn.
The heroes have not revealed a Dungeon
card this round and the Threat token moves
off the bottom of the Countdown track.
Spiders now spawn on the centre square of
each Dungeon card with a web on it, and the
Threat token is then put back on level 2.
Check out the
Character Creator App
Available at
coraquest.com

Some special attacks or events may have an
effect on the heroes.
Stunned - If a hero becomes stunned, lay the
standee on its side. Stunned heroes are unable
to take any actions during the Hero Phase,
including using Special Abilities.
Enemies ignore stunned heroes. They will not
Attack them, and they do not count when
determining where the enemy moves if there
is no hero in range. Stunned heroes no longer
block enemy movement, however heroes and
enemies cannot end their movement on a
square containing a stunned hero.
Stunned heroes can only become un-stunned
if an adjacent hero spends one Full Action to
Revive them. The stunned hero standee is
placed upright and the hero can take all their
actions in that Hero Phase as normal.
Stinky - If a hero or enemy is stinky, then they
smell so bad that no other hero wants to stand
next to them.
If a hero starts their action in a square
adjacent to a stinky hero or enemy
(orthogonally or diagonally), they must first
use a Move action to move at least one square
away. No hero is allowed to finish a movement
action in a square that is adjacent to a stinky
hero or enemy.
Enemies are used to smelly things, so the rules
about being adjacent to stinky heroes and
enemies do not affect them.
Poisoned - If a hero becomes poisoned, place
a Poison token on the Hero card. While a hero
is poisoned they take one damage at the start
of every Hero Phase.
Knocked Back - If a hero is knocked back then
they move 3 squares, in a straight line, away
from the source of the effect. If they hit
another hero or enemy before moving a total
of 3 squares, they stop moving and both take 1
damage. If the hero hits a wall before moving a
total of 3 squares, they take 2 damage.
Do you have to choose to use Halfling and
Wizard Woman’s Special Abilities before
the dice are rolled?
No, you can choose to use their Special
Abilities after the dice are rolled.
Can a healing potion give a hero more
health than they started with?
No, a healing potion cannot take a hero's
health above their starting health on their
Hero card.
Can a hero Attack with two weapons at the
same time?
No, a hero can only use one weapon per
Attack action.
Do the effects of armour “stack” with each
other? So can a hero use leather armour
and the shield at the same time?
No, you may only defend with one item of
armour at a time.
Does the Threat marker still move down on
the Countdown track if you can’t take a
Reveal Dungeon action as there are no
cards left in the Dungeon deck?
Yes, if you have run out of Dungeon cards to
draw, the Threat marker will move down one
space on the Countdown track during every
Countdown Phase.
Is there any limit to how many items a hero
can carry?
No, there is no limit to the number of Item
cards a hero may have.
When you reveal a Story Dungeon card and
the instructions tell you to take a Special
Item card, does the hero need to be
standing on that Story Dungeon card to
take it?
No, the revealing hero does not need to be
standing on the Story Dungeon card to take
the Special Item card.
Can a hero Reveal a Dungeon card
diagonally if they are standing on a corner?
No, a Dungeon card can only be revealed if it
joins up with the card the revealing hero is
standing on.
What are the coins on the Item cards for?
The coins are used in some of the adventures.
They do not have any in-game effects unless it
is otherwise stated in the adventure you are
playing.
Does Healer Cat's Bodyguard Cat have its
own standee?
No, the rules for the Bodyguard Cat are the
same as for all normal weapons. Healer Cat
tells it who to Attack and it runs off and hits
them (it never likes to be too far from Healer
Cat's side however).
Why are the Spider tokens a different
colour on each side?
If you are using the “tough” version of the
spiders (see page 13), you can flip the token,
from the orange tough side to the grey
standard side, to show that the spider has
taken one point of damage.
Status Effects
F.A.Q.

1. Hero Phase
Each hero takes up to two Full Actions and as
many Free Actions as they want per turn.
Reveal Dungeon -
Remove Explore marker from
Dungeon deck, if present. Place
new Dungeon card into the Dungeon, spawn
enemies and place treasure onto the
symbols. If it is a Story Dungeon card, read
its entry in the Quest, and carry out any
instructions. p.4
Move - Move up to the value of the
movement number on the Hero card,
either orthogonally or diagonally. p.6
Search - Search a Treasure chest and
draw a Treasure Item card. p.6
Revive - Wake up an adjacent
“stunned” hero. p.7
Swap Item - Swap any number
of items with one adjacent hero. p.7
Attack - Pick a target within range
and line of sight. Roll the dice listed
on the Hero card + the weapon’s Item
card. Every success rolled is one damage to
the enemy.
If you roll no successes, flip the Hero card to
the Determined side. p.8
2. Enemy Phase
Each enemy takes two actions every turn.
Actions available are Attack and Move.
Attack - An enemy will Attack if
there is a hero within range and line
of sight . If there is a tie, then players
choose which hero is attacked. Enemies roll
all the dice listed on their Enemy card. Every
success rolled equals one damage to the
hero. p.10
Move - If an enemy does not have a
hero in range and line of sight, then it
will move up to its movement value
towards the nearest hero until it does have
range and line of sight. p.11
3. Countdown Phase
Refresh all heroes.
Move the Hero Countdown tokens down one
level on the Countdown track.
If the Explore marker is still on top of the
Dungeon deck then move the Threat token
down one level on the Countdown track.
If the Threat Token moves off the bottom of
the Countdown track then spawn spiders.
Then put the Threat token back on level 2.
Winning and Losing
You win the game if you meet the criteria
listed in the adventure you are playing.
You lose the game if any of your heroes are
defeated (i.e. take more damage than their
health).
Use item - p.5
- p.12
- Summary -
© 2021 - Dan Hughes - Gary King