Goal: Be the first to transport one of your ships back home from 
any opponent's Teleport Pad.
Setup: Each player gets seven ships. Place your fleet onto your 
moon, leaving two Factories empty.
Who Starts: Play Rock-Paper-Scissors to see who goes first (and 
to clarify RPS playing styles).
Turn Options: During each turn, you may either 1) Teleport a ship, 
2) Build a ship, or 3) Move a ship one space.
Teleporting: If you are the only player occupying two or more 
Control Points anywhere around a Teleport Pad, you may transport 
the ship on that pad to any spot on another moon (or into 
nothingness). An arriving ship destroys the ship it teleports onto.
Building: If you occupy the two Control Points flanking an empty 
Factory on any moon, and you have spare parts (i.e. destroyed 
ships) available, you may build a new ship on that Factory.
Movement/Combat: You can move a ship into any space it is 
connected to. If another ship occupies that space, you are 
attacking it. Combat is resolved by a round of 
Rock-Paper-Scissors, as follows:
Original game © 2000
Pizza box edition © 2021
Designed by Andrew Looney
Published by Looney Labs
Box 761 College Park MD 20741-0761
Jovian moon images provided by NASA
This edition suggested by Slice n Dice of Jackson, MI
More info at: www.looneylabs.com/cosmic_coasters
TELEPORT INHIBITOR
Each player must have a set of 
7 matching game tokens. You 
can use coins, dice, meeples, 
cool looking pebbles... any small 
objects you can find 7 of which 
go together in a distinctive way.
FOR 2-4 PLAYERS
YOU WILL ALSO NEED
Win:
Lose:
Draw:
Defender destroyed, you enter.
Your attack fails. No one moves.
Defender destroyed, but you do
not move in. 
If you have a set of Looney Pyramids, you can use them along with 
these boards to play a more advanced version of this game, called 
Lunar Invaders. Look for rules and more info at our website!
CALLISTO
IO
EUROPA
GANYMEDE
Overview: The problem with teleportation is that it's a 
one-way trip. You've transported a ship to an enemy moon... 
but now what? Their teleport pad is under heavy guard. To 
win, you must take control of their teleportation system and 
use it to beam one of your ships back to your home moon. 
Of course, they will fight to stop you, plus they’ll be beaming 
onto YOUR moon, trying to do the same thing! Fortunately, 
you have a special power. But so do they, so good luck!
HOW to
PLAY
Elimination: When a player has only one ship left of their color 
on their home moon, they lose.
If More Than 2 Players: When a player is eliminated, the game 
continues. The eliminated player's final home ship is destroyed, 
along with all ships they have on other moons. Their moon 
remains in play for other players to occupy and use as usual. 
If Fewer Than 4 Players: The extra moons can never be visited.
You can repel invaders. To 
Teleport to your moon, your 
opponent must first play a 
round of RPS and not lose.
In the event of a tie, they can 
only land on an empty space.
When someone attacks you 
and you win, their ship is 
destroyed.
You may move 1 or 2 spaces 
at a time, but you can't jump 
over ships in your way. If you 
attack from two spaces away 
and fail, you decide which of 
those two spaces to remain in.
Whenever someone Teleports 
onto your ship, you may 
escape into any adjacent 
empty space. If your ship is 
trapped, it gets destroyed.
STINGING DEFENSE
WARNING SYSTEM
RAPID TRANSIT
Special Powers: Each player also has one of these abilities:
Prefer Dice?
Lose
Draw
Win
Attacker rolls one die: