Game Overview
During a game of Cosmic Encounter, each player becomes 
a unique alien life form occupying a solar system in deep 
space. The aliens are struggling for cosmic supremacy and 
attempting to colonize planets in foreign systems. Each alien 
has a special power that can be used to its advantage as players 
balance diplomacy, alliances, and force to gain new colonies. 
The winner of the game is the first player to establish five 
colonies on foreign planets. If two or more players establish 
their fifth foreign colony at the same time, they win together!
Preparing to Play
While Cosmic Encounter is a competitive game, it is more 
importantly a social party game filled with wacky aliens 
and outrageous abilities. Experienced fans suggest that new 
players should expect surprising outcomes and focus on 
diplomacy instead of numerical strategy. If players assume the 
roles of their aliens by reading their aliens’ backstories and 
adopting their aliens’ mindsets, Cosmic Encounter will be a 
game where losing is as much fun as winning!
 Quick-Start 
Guide
If players want to jump right into the 
game without reading the full rulebook, 
they can use the Quick-Start Guide to set 
up and learn the core rules as they play. 

Components
Card Zap
Negates Cards. Play this 
card at any time to negate 
a flare or artifact card just 
as a player attempts to 
use it. The flare or artifact 
must then be discarded.
 
Tech
enigma 
DeviCe
Reset All Hands to 8 Cards. Once 
completed, you may discard this 
tech at the start of any encounter. 
Each player, starting with you and 
continuing clockwise, either draws 
cards from the deck or discards 
cards at random as needed to bring 
his or her hand to exactly eight 
cards. You (and only you) may 
discard as many of your cards as 
you wish beforehand.
(If You are the Amoeba)
You may use your power as an ally.
Ally Only
(If You are Not the Amoeba)
As a main player, you may increase 
or decrease the number of your ships 
in an encounter by up to four before 
encounter cards are selected. This 
may result in you having more than 
four ships in the hyperspace gate.
AmoebA
Unlimited Ship movement
Any Phase
Classic Edition
FilCh
Takes Opponent’s Used Card
(If You are Not the Filch)
You may cheat and take your ships from 
the warp (to colonies) or cards from the 
deck or discard pile, even when you 
are not entitled to them. If caught in 
the act, you lose one ship to the warp 
and return the items you were caught 
filching. You don’t have to reveal this 
card unless you are caught, but once it 
is revealed the deck and discards are 
placed next to you for easy access.
(If You are the Filch)
You may filch any other player’s used 
encounter card whether you were 
involved in the encounter or not.
3-PLAYER
4-PLAYER
5-PLAYER
Gives away cards
Philanthropist
Can I Help You?
Fido
Healer
Reserve
Human
Retrieves discarded cards
Can save other players’ ships 
from warp
Can play attacks as 
reinforcements
Adds 4 to encounter total
1 Warp
1 Genesis Planet
1 Prometheus Token
1 Lunar Cannon 
Token
20 Destiny Cards
11 Artifact Cards
55 Encounter Cards
6 Reinforcement Cards
51 Flare Cards
(1 per Alien)
1 Alternate Filch 
Flare Card
20 Tech Cards
34 Cosmic Combo 
Cards
42 Cosmic Tokens
7 Grudge Tokens
1 Quick-Start Guide
1 Hyperspace Gate
25 Player Planets
(5 per Player)
100 Plastic Ships 
(20 per Player)
5 Player Colony 
Markers
51 Alien Sheets
Not Main Player
You have the power to Infest. Unless specifically prevented by 
another game effect (such as the Force Field artifact), when it is 
your turn to ally, you may use this power to ally (sending one to 
four ships, as usual) with one side in an encounter as if you had 
been invited, even when you were not.
Evolving late on their almost totally polluted world, the Parasites had to depend 
on the already dominant life-forms for survival. But, so rapidly did they succeed 
in infesting their home planets, they now need unsuspecting hosts to carry them 
throughout the far reaches of space.
Parasite
Joins Alliance at Will
Let’s begin by setting 
up the game. We each 
choose a color and take 
our ships, planets, 
and foreign colony 
markers.
I choose yellow. I 
have all my pieces!
I’m purple. We should all place our 
planets in front of us and stack four of 
our ships on each planet—like this.
Trader, do we 
get extra because 
there are two 
of us?
No, Clone. 
That’s not how your 
power works.
Quick-Start Guide
 Welcome! I am Oracle, and we aliens are ready to 
play a game of Cosmic Encounter. You can learn the 
rules by watching us play a turn, and then you can 
try playing a game on your own.
I’ll shuffle the destiny 
deck. If there were fewer 
than five of us, I would 
remove destiny cards that 
match the colors that no 
one chose.

Setup
To set up a game of Cosmic Encounter, players perform the 
following steps:
1.	 Choose Player Color: Each player chooses a player 
color and takes the colony marker, five planets, and 
20 ships of that color. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.	 Set Up Warp, Planets, Ships, and Colonies: Players 
place their planets in front of them, stacking four of 
their ships on each of their planets. Then, players place 
the warp in the center of the play area. Finally, players 
place their colony markers at “0” on the colony track. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.	 Prepare Destiny Deck: Take the three destiny cards that 
correspond to the color that each player has chosen and 
shuffle them with the wild and special destiny cards to 
create the destiny deck. Any cards that correspond to a 
color that was not chosen are returned to the game box; 
they are not used during the game.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colony 
Marker
The Warp’s Colony Track with Colony Markers
The Red Player’s Components
For a four-player game in which no player chooses to be green, the 
destiny deck consists of destiny cards of all colors except green.
Planets
Ships
SPecial
the player who has the 
most cards in hand 
(other than you). In 
the event of a tie, break 
the tie to your left.
The encounter takes 
place in the other 
player’s home system. 
Have an encounter 
with any other player 
of your choice in his 
X
The Red Player’s Starting Planets

4.	 Choose Aliens: Shuffle the cosmic combo cards and 
reveal the top card of the deck. Then, gather the alien 
sheets indicated for the appropriate number of players 
and deal one randomly to each player. 
 
Experienced players can use the alien selection rules 
described in “Advanced Game” on page 16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.	 Prepare Cosmic Deck and Deal Hands: Shuffle the 
encounter, reinforcement, and artifact cards to create the 
cosmic deck. 
 
Experienced players can include flare cards as described 
in “Advanced Game” on page 16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.	 Deal Starting Hands: Deal a starting hand of eight 
cosmic cards to each player. Players may look at their 
cards but cannot show them to other players.
7.	 Choose First Player: If this is the players’ first game, the 
youngest player is the first player and takes the first turn 
when the game begins. Otherwise, reveal cards from 
the destiny deck until a card matching the color of one 
of the players is revealed; that player is the first player. 
Then, shuffle the destiny deck.
The cosmic deck contains all encounter cards, 
all reinforcement cards, and all artifact cards.
The purple player is the first player.
 
ioniC gas
Stops Compensation and 
Rewards. Play after the 
winner of an encounter 
is determined. No 
compensation or defensive 
ally rewards may be 
collected this encounter.
ForCe Field
Stops Allies. Play after 
alliances are formed during 
an encounter. You may 
cancel the alliances of any 
or all players. Canceled 
allies return their ships to 
any of their colonies.
CosmiC Zap
Stops Power. Play this card 
at any time to cancel one 
use of any alien’s power, 
including your own. That 
power may not be used again 
during the current encounter.
3-PLAYER
4-PLAYER
5-PLAYER
Takes opponent’s discarded 
encounter card
Filch
Let’s All Get Along
Human
Mind
Philanthropist
Pacifist
Adds 4 to encounter total
Sees other players’ hands
Gives away cards
Wins with negotiate card
Alien Name and 
Power Summary
Number of 
Players

Basic 
Concepts
This section contains the basic concepts for Cosmic Encounter 
that players need to understand before learning how to play 
the game.
Aliens
During the game, each player controls an alien that can alter 
the rules of the game. To understand how alien powers work, 
the players must first understand the basic mechanics of the 
game. Then, they will be ready to learn about aliens in the 
“Additional Rules” section.
Planets and Systems
Each player begins the game with five planets that match his 
or her player color. These planets are his or her home planets 
and compose his or her home system. Any planets that do 
not match the color of a player’s home planets are foreign 
planets to that player, and all foreign planets of one color are 
collectively a foreign system.
Ships and Colonies
Each player has 20 ships that match his or her player color. 
Ships of the same color are stacked on planets. 
Each stack of one or more ships on a planet 
represents one colony. If a player has a 
colony on one of their home planets, it is a 
home colony. If a player has a colony on 
a foreign planet, it is a foreign colony. 
Multiple players can have a colony on the 
same planet, but each player can only have 
one colony per planet.
A red planet 
with one home 
colony and one 
foreign colony.
Moving Ships
During the game, players move their ships to and from their 
colonies. When a player moves their ships, that player chooses 
which colonies they move from or return to, and these 
colonies can be home, foreign, or a mixture of the two.
A player cannot return a ship to a planet where they do not 
already have a colony of at least one ship.
The Warp
The warp holds lost ships and tracks each player’s progress 
toward victory. When a ship is sent to the warp, it is placed on 
the warp where it remains until a player is able to retrieve it. 
The outer edge of the warp contains a track that indicates 
the number of foreign colonies each player has. Establishing 
foreign colonies is how players win the game.
Winning The Game
Players win the game by establishing foreign colonies. The 
foreign colony track along the edge of the warp is used to 
indicate the number of foreign colonies each player has. 
When a player establishes their fifth foreign colony, that 
player wins the game! If two or more players establish their 
fifth foreign colony at the same time, all of those players win!
The red, blue, and yellow players have all lost ships and 
placed them on the warp.
Both the yellow and red player have two foreign colonies, 
and the blue player has four foreign colonies.
The red player’s home system is composed of their five home planets.
These are foreign planets for the red player.

Playing 
The Game
To play a game of Cosmic Encounter, players take turns 
in clockwise order starting with the first player, who is 
determined during setup. During a player’s turn, they have 
an encounter. An encounter is an interaction between two 
or more players who are trying to either establish or defend 
a colony.
During an encounter, the player taking their turn is the 
offense. The primary goal of the offense is to either establish 
a colony on a foreign planet or remove a foreign colony 
from one of their home planets. The player who opposes the 
offense during an encounter is the defense. The defense is 
determined by the destiny deck, which is described later. The 
offense and defense are each referred to as a main player.
An encounter consists of the following eight phases that 
players resolve in order: 
1.	 Start Turn
2.	 Regroup
3.	 Destiny
4.	 Launch
5.	 Alliance
6.	 Planning
7.	 Reveal
8.	 Resolution
Start Turn Phase
During the Start Turn Phase, if the offense does not have any 
encounter cards, they must discard their hand and draw eight 
new cards. They repeat this process until they have an 
encounter card in their hand. Attack cards, negotiate cards, 
and morph cards are all encounter cards.
Negotiate Card
 
Morph Card
 
 
Attack Card
Regroup Phase
During the Regroup Phase, the offense retrieves one of their 
ships from the warp and places it on any of their home or 
foreign colonies, stacking it on top of another one of their ships.
Destiny Phase
During the Destiny Phase, the offense draws the top card of 
the destiny deck and follows its instructions. The destiny card 
determines which player the offense will have an encounter 
with. There are three types of destiny cards: color, wild, and 
special.
Launch Phase
During the Launch Phase, the offense chooses the planet 
where the encounter occurs and commits their ships to the 
encounter. 
To choose a planet, the offense takes the hyperspace gate and 
points it at any planet in the home system that was indicated 
on their destiny card—that planet is the target planet. Planets 
with fewer of that player’s ships are easier to defeat.
Wild Destiny Card
Have an encounter 
with any other player 
of your choice in his 
Special Destiny Card
SPecial
the player who has the 
most foreign colonies 
(other than you). In 
the event of a tie, break 
the tie to your left.
The encounter takes 
place in the other 
player’s home system. 
Color Destiny Card
The red player takes one ship from the warp and places it on 
one of their established colonies.
Since a yellow destiny card was revealed, the offense can point the 
hyperspace gate at any planet in the yellow player’s home system.

If the offense drew their own color destiny card, they may 
choose to point the hyperspace gate at a foreign colony on 
one of their own home planets, or they can discard the card 
and draw a new one.
After choosing a planet, the offense must decide how many of 
their ships to commit to the encounter. The offense must 
place one to four of their ships on the hyperspace gate—these 
ships are participating in the encounter. Ships can be taken 
from home and foreign colonies and multiple ships can be 
taken from the same colony.
Alliance Phase
During the Alliance Phase, both the offense and the defense 
can form alliances with other players in an effort to sway the 
outcome of the encounter in their favor.
To resolve the Alliance Phase, players perform the following 
steps in order:
1.	 Invite: The offense may invite other players to be allies. 
Then, the defense may invite other players to be allies. 
To invite a player, the offense or defense states out loud 
which player they are inviting. The offense and defense 
can invite as many or as few allies as they like, and they 
can both invite the same player. However, main players 
cannot be allies themselves.
2.	 Accept: Starting with the player to the left of the offense 
and proceeding in clockwise order, each player who was 
invited to be an ally chooses whether or not to accept 
the invitation and form an alliance. If a player accepts 
an invitation from the offense, that player becomes an 
offensive ally; if a player accepts an invitation from the 
defense, that player becomes a defensive ally.
The red player commits three ships to the encounter, taking one ship 
from a home colony and two ships from a foreign colony.
When a player becomes an ally, they must commit one 
to four of their ships to the encounter. Similar to how the 
offense commits ships during the Launch Phase, an ally can 
take ships from any of their home or foreign colonies. 
When an offensive ally commits ships, they place those 
ships in a stack on the hyperspace gate; when a defensive ally 
commits ships, they place those ships in a stack next to the 
planet that the hyperspace gate is pointing at.
There can be multiple offensive allies and multiple defensive 
allies, but players must remember to accept invitations to 
become allies in turn order, and each player must commit 
ships to the encounter before the next player either accepts 
or rejects any invitations they received. Players cannot accept 
invitations from both the offense and the defense during 
the same encounter, and they can refuse any invitations 
they receive.
Planning Phase
During the Planning Phase, each main player simultaneously 
selects one encounter card from their hand and places it 
facedown in their play area. The encounter cards that each 
player selects will be used to determine the outcome of the 
encounter. Encounter cards display the word “Encounter” at 
the top of the card.
If the defense has no encounter cards in hand, they must reveal 
all remaining cards in hand, discard them, and then draw a 
new eight-card hand before selecting a card during this phase. 
If the offense has no encounter cards in hand, their turn ends 
immediately and they return any of their ships that are on the 
hyperspace gate to all of their home or foreign colonies. Allies 
must also return all of their committed ships to their colonies 
as well.
Card Name
This encounter card is an attack, which is placed facedown.

Reveal Phase
During the Reveal Phase, both the offense and the defense 
reveal the encounter card they selected during the Planning 
Phase. Then, they determine the outcome of the encounter 
according to the cards revealed, as follows:
Attack Versus Attack
If both players reveal an attack card, they calculate their totals. 
The offense’s total is the value of their attack card plus the 
number of ships they and their offensive allies committed. 
The defense’s total is the value of their attack card plus the 
number of ships they and their defensive allies committed.
The winner of the encounter is the player with the highest 
total. If the players tie, the defense wins the encounter.
Attack Versus Negotiate
If one player reveals an attack card and the other player reveals 
a negotiate card, the player who reveals the attack card wins 
the encounter. 
However, the player who played the negotiate card collects 
compensation. Compensation is collected during the 
Resolution Phase, which is described on the next page.
 
Negotiate Versus Negotiate
If both players reveal a negotiate card, all offensive and 
defensive allies return the ships they committed to their 
colonies. Then, the offense and defense must attempt 
diplomacy by making a deal.
The main players may make a deal to trade cards and/or 
establish one colony as follows:
Trade: A player can give any number of cards from their hand 
to the other player. Players can trade specific cards, specific 
types of cards, or cards at random. If players agree to a trade, 
they must trade the cards that were agreed upon (i.e., a player 
cannot agree to trade their highest-value attack card and then 
trade a different card). Players can discuss the cards they have, 
and a player can give cards without receiving any in return. 
Establish Colony: A player can choose any planet where he 
or she has a colony (home or foreign) and allow the other 
player to establish a colony on that planet. When establishing a 
colony in this way, a player can take any of their ships from the 
hyperspace gate or from their colonies.
The offense and defense have one minute to make a successful 
deal. At minimum, a successful deal must result in either one 
card being traded or one colony being established. If after 
one minute, the players cannot negotiate a deal, that deal is 
unsuccessful, and both players must send three of their own 
Morph Versus Other Card
If either player reveals a morph card, that card becomes a 
duplicate of the other revealed encounter card. If the other card 
is an attack card, players resolve the encounter as if two attack 
cards were revealed; if the other card is a negotiate, players 
resolve the encounter as if two negotiate cards were revealed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This morph card functions as 
an attack card with a value of 8.
This morph card functions 
as a negotiate card.

Resolution Phase
During the Resolution Phase, players resolve the encounter 
according to its outcome—an offense win, a defense win, 
a successful deal, or an unsuccessful deal. Then, all encounter 
cards played during the encounter are discarded.
Offense Wins 
If the offense is the winner of the encounter, the offense and any 
offensive allies place all of their ships from the hyperspace gate 
on the target planet. If a player does not have a colony on that 
planet, they place their ships on the planet in a stack, forming a 
new colony. If a player already has a colony on the planet, they 
place their ships so they reinforce that colony, adding to the stack 
that is already there.
The defense sends to the warp all of their own participating 
ships and all participating ships belonging to defensive allies. 
Other ships on that planet that were not participating in the 
encounter are bystanders; they are not sent to the warp.
Each player that gains a new foreign colony advances their 
colony marker on the colony track so it matches the number 
of foreign colonies they have.
The defense collects compensation if they played a negotiate 
card against an attack card (see “Compensation” to the right).
The green player won the encounter, so they move their ships 
to the purple planet, establishing a foreign colony.
The purple player lost the encounter, so they move 
their ships to the warp.
The green player establishes their first foreign colony, so they 
advance their token one space on the foreign colony track.
Defense Wins 
If the defense is the winner of the encounter, their colony 
survives and all ships on the hyperspace gate are sent to the 
warp. Then, each defensive ally gains defender rewards. For 
each ship a defensive ally committed to the encounter, that 
player can do one of the following:
•	 Draw one card from the cosmic deck.
•	 Take one of their ships from the warp and place it on one 
of their colonies of their choice.
After gaining defender rewards, the defensive allies return 
their ships to any of their colonies; they do not get to establish 
a colony on the planet they helped to defend. Only defensive 
allies receive defender rewards—the defense receives nothing.
The offense collects compensation if they played a negotiate 
card against an attack card (see “Compensation” below).
Successful Deal 
The terms of the deal are carried out as agreed upon and the 
offense returns any of their ships on the hyperspace gate to 
their colonies.
Unsuccessful Deal 
Each of the main players must place three of their ships in the 
warp. When placing ships in the warp, a player can take the 
ships from any of their colonies or from the hyperspace gate.
Compensation
If a player loses an encounter by playing a negotiate card 
against an attack card, that player collects compensation. To 
collect compensation, the player takes a number of cards at 
random from the winner’s hand. The number of cards the 
player takes is equal to the number of ships that they sent to 
the warp as a result of losing the encounter. If the winner does 
not have enough cards to fully compensate the other player, 
that player takes as many cards from the winner as they can.
Second Encounter Rule
If the offense won or made a successful deal and if this was 
the first encounter of their turn, they can have a second 
encounter starting with the Regroup Phase. Otherwise, 
the next player in clockwise order takes their turn, becoming 
the offense.

Additional 
Rules
This section contains additional rules that players must 
understand to play Cosmic Encounter.
Alien Sheets
Each player has an alien sheet, which represents the alien 
species they are playing as. Each alien sheet includes the name 
of the alien and its unique power. The top of each alien sheet 
features upside-down text that provides a one-line summary of 
that alien’s power for other players to read.
The bottom of each alien sheet indicates the prerequisites for 
using that alien’s power. The upper blue bar indicates which 
role the player must have to use that alien’s power (e.g., main 
player, defensive ally, etc.).
Retrieves Discarded Cards
Fido
You have the power to Fetch. After encounter cards are discarded 
at the end of an encounter, you may use this power to retrieve one 
of the discarded cards and offer it to another player. If the card is 
refused, you may keep it. If the card is accepted, the other player 
keeps the card, then you may either retrieve one ship from the warp 
or draw one card from the deck.
Trained for generations by a strict but unknown alien life-form, the Fidos 
were bred for retrieval. Slinking out on their own, they cannot help but fetch 
the debris of outer space for whomever happens by, knowing they will still be 
rewarded in some way.
Alien Power 
Summary
Alien Name
Alien Power
A player can use this alien power if they are the offense or defense. 
They cannot use this power if they are an ally or not participating in 
the encounter.
The orange bar indicates if the power is mandatory or 
optional. If an alien power is mandatory, the player must use 
that alien’s power when they are able to. If an alien power is 
optional, the player can choose whether or not to use that 
alien’s power when they are able to.
The phase bar (lower blue bar) reminds players when the 
alien’s power can be used. One or more of the phases in this 
bar are highlighted in orange; the alien’s power can be used 
during these phases.
Alert Lamps
Each alien sheet has a green-, yellow-, or red-colored alert 
lamp that indicates the complexity of each alien’s power. 
Green represents less complex aliens, yellow represents aliens 
with medium complexity, and red represents more complex 
aliens. The complexity of an alien’s power does not correlate 
to its strength; aliens with green alert lamps can be as 
powerful as aliens with red alert lamps.
A player can use this alien power during 
the Planning Phase.
ps
Green, Yellow, and Red Alert Lamps
A player must use this alien power 
when they are able to do so.
f g
g
y
y
Mandatory
Mandatory
A player can choose whether or not to use this 
alien power when they are able to do so.

Reinforcement Cards
Reinforcement cards offer a sneaky way for players to increase 
either side’s total during an encounter.
After the main players reveal their encounter cards, each 
player participating in the encounter can play reinforcement 
cards, choosing to benefit either the offense or the defense. 
Each reinforcement card’s value is added to the chosen player’s 
total.
After an encounter is resolved, reinforcement cards are 
discarded along with the encounter cards that are revealed.
Amount Added 
to the Total
Role and Timing 
Indicator
Artifact Cards
Artifact cards provide players with powerful, single-use effects. 
When played, they produce the effect described on the card. 
Like alien sheets, these cards contain bars to indicate the 
requirements for playing the card.
After an artifact is played, it is discarded.
Zapping Powers
Players can use the “Cosmic Zap” artifact card to cancel one 
use of an alien’s power. That power cannot be used again for 
the rest of the encounter. Some alien powers (or some parts of 
aliens’ powers) do not require the power to be used. Powers 
such as these that function without being used cannot be the 
target of the “Cosmic Zap.” 
For example, the Warrior’s power can be zapped when used to 
add to the Warrior’s total during an encounter, but it cannot 
be zapped when adding tokens to its alien sheet. Similarly, 
the Zombie’s power can be zapped when used to save its own 
ships from going to the warp, but it cannot be zapped to stop 
the Zombie from freeing other players’ ships as part of a deal.
Card Zap
Negates Cards. Play this 
card at any time to negate 
a flare or artifact card just 
as a player attempts to 
use it. The flare or artifact 
must then be discarded.
Effect Summary
Role and Timing 
Indicator

Losing Home Planets 
and Alien Powers
When a player removes their last ship from one of their home 
planets, that planet is lost. Players cannot return ships to 
their lost planets. Players defend their lost planets as normal 
but will not have ships to add to their total. Players can re-
establish colonies on their lost planets as described on page 
18.
If a player ever has fewer than three home colonies, that 
player loses their alien power. When this happens, that player 
flips their alien sheet facedown to indicate that their alien’s 
power is lost, and that player cannot use any part of the power 
on their alien sheet. If a player who lost their alien power ever 
has three or more home colonies again, they immediately 
regain their alien power, flipping their alien sheet faceup.
The Colony Track
The colony track always reflects the number of foreign 
colonies that each player has. If a player gains or loses a 
foreign colony, they increase or decrease their colony marker 
on the colony track accordingly so that the number their 
colony marker is aligned with equals the number of foreign 
colonies they currently have.
When a player establishes their fifth foreign colony, they 
immediately win the game. If multiple people establish their 
fifth foreign colony at the same time, all players who have five 
foreign colonies win the game together.
The colony track reflects the number of foreign 
colonies each player has.
No Encounter 
Cards In Hand
When a player has no encounter cards remaining in their 
hand at certain times during the game, they must follow a 
special rule as follows:
•	 During the Start Turn Phase, if the offense has no 
encounter cards, they must discard their hand and create a 
new hand by drawing eight cards. They repeat this process 
until they have at least one encounter card.
•	 After a successful first encounter, if the offense has no 
encounter cards, they cannot have a second encounter 
that turn.
•	 During an encounter, at any time before cards are selected 
during the Planning Phase, if the offense has no encounter 
cards (due to an alien power or other game effect), their 
turn ends immediately. Any committed ships are returned 
to their players’ colonies. 
•	 When the defense must play an encounter card and has no 
encounter cards in hand, they may play any cards in hand 
that can be played during the current phase as the defense. 
Then, they must discard their hand and draw eight new 
cards. This process is repeated until the defense has at least 
one encounter card.
Bystanders
Foreign colonies on a planet where an encounter is occurring 
are bystanders. Ships that are part of a bystander colony do 
not contribute to encounters and are not affected by the 
outcome of an encounter. When committing ships, an ally 
can take any ships, including bystanders, from any of their 
home or foreign colonies. 
The purple player is attacking the green player. 
The yellow player’s colony is a bystander.

1.	 The Macron (green) is the offense and has drawn 
a destiny card instructing him to attack the Clone 
(purple). Both the Macron and the Clone are 
main players.
2.	 The Macron points the hyperspace gate at a Clone 
planet that contains two Clone ships. The Macron uses 
his alien power of Mass and commits one of his ships to 
the encounter, placing it on the hyperspace gate.
3.	 The Macron asks the Zombie to be his ally. The Clone 
asks both the Parasite and the Zombie to ally with her.
The Zombie (yellow) decides to ally with the Clone, 
committing four ships. 
4.	 The Parasite uses her alien power to Infest to become an 
offensive ally even though the Macron did not invite her 
to do so. The Parasite (blue) commits three ships.
5.	 The main players each choose an encounter card and 
place it facedown. 
6.	 Each player reveals their chosen encounter card. The 
Macron reveals a 10, the Clone reveals a 12. Both 
players calculate their totals. 
 
The Macron’s alien power (Mass) makes his ship worth 
four. With the Parasite’s three ships and the attack card 
of 10, the offense’s total is 17. 
 
The Clone’s two ships, the Zombie’s four ships, and the 
attack card of 12 is a total of 18.
Encounter Example
+3+4=17
+2+4=18

7.	 The Parasite decides to play a +2 reinforcement card to 
increase the offense’s total to 19. The Macron, Clone, 
and Parasite choose not to play any reinforcement cards. 
The offense wins.
8.	 The Clone loses the encounter so all of her ships on 
her planet as well as all of the Zombie’s ships that were 
committed as defensive allies go to the warp.
9.	 The Zombie uses his alien power of Immortality, saving 
his ships from the warp and placing them back on his 
colonies instead.
10.	The Macron and the Parasite each establish a foreign 
colony on the Clone’s planet, moving their committed 
ships from the hyperspace gate to that planet.
11.	The Macron and the Parasite each increase their foreign 
colony marker on the foreign colony track by one. 
12.	All players discard their played encounter cards. The 
Clone uses her power to Replicate to return her played 
encounter card (an attack card with a value of 12) to her 
hand instead of discarding it. 
17+2=19

Advanced 
Game
Once players are comfortable with the core rules of the game, 
they should add flare cards to their future games.
Flare Cards
Flare cards provide players with powerful abilities that can be 
used repeatedly. Each flare has a blue bar indicating the 
prerequisities for it to be played. When a player plays a flare 
card, they use its wild ability. However, if that player has the 
matching alien sheet, they must use the super ability instead.
After a player plays a flare card, they return it to their hand. 
A player cannot play more than one flare card during an 
encounter, and the same flare card cannot be played more 
than once during an encounter, even by a different player.
If a player’s alien sheet is facedown (due to losing their alien 
power), they cannot use the super ability on the matching 
flare card, but they can use the wild ability instead.
Advanced Setup
To play the advanced game, players replace steps 4 and 5 of 
setup as follows:
4.	 Choose Aliens: Shuffle the flare cards and deal two 
facedown to each player. Each player takes the two alien 
sheets matching their flare cards, chooses one sheet to 
keep, and returns the other to the game box. Then, all 
players reveal their chosen sheet simultaneously.
5.	 Prepare Cosmic Deck: Collect the flare cards that 
were dealt to each player; if playing with fewer than 
five players, add additional flares randomly to bring 
the total to 10. Then, shuffle those 10 flares with the 
encounter, reinforcement, and artifact cards to create the 
cosmic deck.
(If You are the Kamikaze)
You may retrieve three ships from 
the warp during each of your 
regroup phases instead of one.
Offense Only
(If You are Not the Kamikaze)
As a main player, after encounter 
cards are selected but before 
they are revealed, you may send 
up to four of your ships that 
are not in the encounter to the 
warp to add 3 to your side’s 
total for each ship sacrificed.
kAmikAze
SACriFiCeS ShipS For CArdS
Only the player who has the Kamikaze alien sheet can use 
this card’s super ability.
Wild Ability
Super Ability
Variants
This section contains variant rules that players can 
incorporate into their games of Cosmic Encounter if they 
desire. The variants can be used individually, or they can 
be combined.
Four Planets
If players wish to play a shorter game of Cosmic Encounter, 
they play the game following all the normal rules with the 
following exceptions:
•	 Players each have four planets instead of five.
•	 Players start the game with 16 ships instead of 20, placing 
four ships on each planet.
•	 The winner is the first player to establish four foreign 
colonies instead of five.
•	 Players lose their alien power when having fewer than two 
home colonies instead of three.
To experience a variety of aliens quickly, it is recommended 
that players play multiple three-player games using the Four 
Planets variant.
Single-Encounter Turns
In this variant, the offense is limited to a single encounter 
during their turn, even if they win the encounter or make 
a successful deal. This ensures that players take roughly the 
same number of turns throughout the game.
Hidden Powers
In this variant, each player keeps their chosen alien secret 
until they are ready to use its power. 
During setup, the players do not reveal their chosen alien 
sheets to the other players—the sheets remain facedown and 
their flare cards are shuffled into the cosmic deck without 
being revealed.
While an alien sheet is facedown, its power cannot be used. A 
player may flip their alien sheet faceup at any time in order to 
use it. Once an alien sheet is flipped faceup, it remains faceup 
for the rest of the game.
Cosmic Combos and Flares
If players want to add flares to their game while still using 
cosmic combo cards, they simply create the cosmic deck with 
the flare cards matching the aliens on the cosmic combo card 
plus enough random flares to bring the total in the deck to 10.

Technology
The technology variant allows players to use the effects of tech 
cards during the game. Tech cards represent revolutionary 
technologies that players can research. The text on each 
tech card describes the effect that each tech provides. Some 
techs provide players with single-use effects while other techs 
remain in play for the duration of the game. 
Setup
If players are using the technology variant, after setup is 
completed, players shuffle the tech deck and deal two cards 
from the deck to each player. Then, each player selects one 
technology card to keep and discards the other faceup in the 
tech discard pile. The tech that each player selects is placed 
facedown in their play area.
Combining the Technology 
and Four-Planet Variants
If players are using both the technology and four-planet 
variants during the same game, players must remove all tech 
from the tech deck that have a research number equal to or 
greater than eight. The removed tech cards are placed in the 
game box; they will not be used during the game.
Tech Cards
Each player begins the game with one tech card, which is 
placed facedown in their play area. A player can look at their 
facedown tech card at any time, but before they can use a tech 
card, they must research it. Each tech card has a research 
number, which indicates how much time is required to 
research that tech.
During the start of any player’s Regroup Phase, before that 
player retrieves one of their ships from the warp, each player 
can choose to research, complete, or abandon a tech—a 
player can also choose to do none of these.
Tech
Offense Only
WarpspaCe 
Key
Free Ships from Warp. 
Once completed, you may 
discard this tech during 
the regroup phase of one 
of your encounters to free 
all of your ships from the 
warp. Freed ships return 
to any of your colonies.
Research 
Number
Researching Tech
To research a tech, a player takes one of their ships from 
among their colonies and places it on the facedown tech 
card. That ship must remain on that tech card until the tech 
is completed.
Completing Tech
If the number of ships on a tech card is greater than or equal 
to the card’s research number, that player can complete the 
tech by flipping the card faceup and returning those ships to 
their colonies. The player can now use that tech card’s abilities 
as described on the card.
Abandoning Tech
A player can abandon a tech by revealing the card and 
placing it in the tech discard pile. Then, they return any ships 
that were on the card to their colonies.
Using Tech
Like alien sheets and artifact cards, the bottom of each tech 
card has bars that indicate the role the player must have when 
using the effect on the card as well as the phase during which 
the card can be used.
After a player has completed a tech, they can use the tech by 
resolving the ability described on the card. The ability of some 
technology requires the use of specific tokens which are 
described on their corresponding tech cards.
Acquiring New Tech
If the first encounter is successful for the offense, and they 
still have an encounter card in their hand, instead of having 
a second encounter, that player may draw a number of tech 
cards equal to his or her current foreign colonies plus one. 
Then, he or she selects one tech card to keep and discards the 
others. The selected tech card is placed facedown and can be 
researched as normal. There is no limit to the number of tech 
cards a player can have; however, a player can only research or 
complete one tech card during each Regroup Phase.
If the tech deck is ever depleted, players shuffle the tech 
discard pile to create a new tech deck.
Note: The Machine may give up their second or later 
encounter to acquire a new tech card, but doing so ends their 
turn, regardless of their alien power.
Genesis Planet
Lunar Cannon
The Prometheus

Clarifications 
This section contains a list of clarifications about components 
and some situations that can occur during the game.
Timing
Players must resolve alien powers and card abilities according 
to the specific phases indicated on the component for that 
power or ability. However, there are times when multiple 
people may wish to resolve powers or abilities during the 
same phase. When this occurs, players resolve their powers or 
abilities in the following order:
1.	 Offense
2.	 Defense
3.	 Other players in clockwise order, starting with the player 
to the left of the offense
Alien Power Precedence
If an alien power contradicts a rule from this booklet, the 
alien power takes precedence.
No Colonies during Regroup Phase
When a player would take a ship from the warp during their 
Regroup Phase, if they have no home or foreign colonies, they 
place the ship directly on the hyperspace gate and continue 
their turn as normal.
Re-Establishing a Home Colony
If a player draws a destiny card of their own color and has 
a home planet that has zero ships on it, they may aim the 
hyperspace gate at it to automatically re-establish a colony 
with up to four ships from their other colonies. This counts 
as a successful encounter, allowing the player to have a second 
encounter if this was their first encounter this turn.
Defending without Ships
If the defense has no ships on a planet during an encounter, 
they still play encounter cards, can receive help from allies, 
and defend their planet as normal. When determining totals, 
the defense’s own ship value is zero.
Color of Special Destiny Cards
For the purposes of game effects, a special destiny card is 
treated as a color card that matches the color of the player 
that the card indicates as the defense.
Depleting the Destiny Deck
If the destiny deck ever has only one card remaining, players 
cannot draw it. Instead, the remaining card is shuffled into 
the discard pile to form a new destiny deck.
Cosmic Quake
If a player needs to draw a card from the cosmic deck, and 
both the cosmic deck and discard pile are empty, then a 
cosmic quake occurs! All players discard their hands, the 
discard pile is shuffled to make a new deck, and eight cards 
are dealt to each player.
Hazard Warning
Some of the destiny cards are marked 
with a hazard warning, which is a 
glowing circle around the colored 
circle in the upper-left corner. This 
has no effect on gameplay and is used 
in expansions.
Alternate Filch Flare
An alternate flare card for the Filch alien is included in this 
game. This card contains the controversial version of the Filch 
flare card from the classic edition of Cosmic Encounter. Players 
can use the Filch flare of their choice, but only one version of 
the card should be used during a game.
Destiny Card with 
Hazard Warning
Cosmic Tokens 
and Grudge 
Tokens
Many alien powers require the use of 
tokens. For example, the Warrior’s alien 
power requires that tokens be placed on 
its alien sheet. Players use cosmic tokens 
when resolving powers such as these. 
Cosmic tokens have no inherent effects; 
they produce the effect described in the 
alien power. Alternatively, some powers 
instruct the players to use specific tokens 
instead, such as as the Grudge tokens 
used by the Grudge’s power. 
Cosmic Token
Grudge Token

Credits
Game Design: Bill Eberle, Jack Kittredge, Peter Olotka, 
and Bill Norton
Game Development: Kevin Wilson
New Alien Design: Cedric Chin, Benjamin Corliss, Alan Emerich, 
Brandon Freels, Ken Hubbard, Gerald Katz, Eric M. Lang, Jack Reda, 
Duke Ritenhouse, Matt Stone, and Kevin Wilson 
Editing: Sam Stewart
Graphic Design: Sabe Lewellen, Andrew Navaro, and Brian 
Schomburg
Additional Graphic Design: WiL Springer
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Alien Art: Felicia Cano, Ryan Barger, and Andrew Navaro
Additional Illustrations: Andrew Navaro
Plastic Ship Design: WiL Springer
Lead Playtester: Mike Zebrowski
Playtesters: Mark Alvater, Jan Louis Argilagos, John Arnold, Troie 
Baker, Bryan Bornmueller, Matthew B. Carey, Todd Etter, Corey Finkle, 
Darci Fosnaugh, Rob Fosnaugh, J.R. Godwin, Matt Hartman, Aaron 
Hauptmann, Carl Hotchkiss, Esther Hotchkiss, Eric Howard, Jeff Kahan, 
Daniel Karp, June King, Eric M. Lang, Joseph Lang, Sabe Lewellen, 
Monte Lewis, Thyme Ludwig, Mark Mitchell, Rick Nauertz, Steven 
Odhner, Jack Reda, Duke Ritenhouse, Nate Sandall, John Skogerboe, 
Jason Allen Lee Smith, Jason Steinhurst, Jordan Stroup, Pam VanMuijen, 
and Kevin Wood
Special Thanks: Jack Reda, Duke Ritenhouse, Steve Jackson, and 
Team XYZZY
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
Executive Developer: Jeff Tidball
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Revised Edition Credits
Producer: Molly Glover
Rules Writing and Revision: Adam Baker, Bill Eberle, Greg Olotka, 
and Peter Olotka
Editing: Carsten Müncheberg
Proofreading: Christopher Meyer
Board Game Manager: James Kniffen
Graphic Design: Evan Simonet
Graphic Design Manager: Chris Hosch
Cover Art: Andrew Olson
Interior Art: Stephen Somers
Art Direction: Andy Christensen
Managing Art Director: Melissa Shetler
Sculpting: Bexley Andrajack
Sculpting Lead: Cory DeVore
Sculpting Manager: Derrick Fuchs
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
Production Management: Jason Beaudoin and Megan Duehn
Visual Creative Director: Brian Schomburg
Senior Project Manager: John Franz-Wichlacz
Senior Manager of Product Development: Chris Gerber
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Publisher: Andrew Navaro
Playtesters: Emmanuel Armesto, Chris Beiting, Craig Bishell, Caterina 
D’Agostini, Andrea Dell’Agnese, Julia Faeta, Anna Grollmus, Wes 
Grollmus, Matthew Liu, Devon Maloy, Jamie Morgon, Alex Moschetti, 
Spencer Palmer, Taylor Palmer, Kenneth Uy, Andrew Vogel, Wendy 
Vogel, David Williams, Karen Williams, Rhys Williams, and Sophie 
Williams
Index
A
abandoning tech 17
acquiring new tech 17
advanced setup 16
alert lamps 11
alien complexity 11
alien powers 11
losing powers 13
“use” of powers 12
zapping powers 12
alien sheet 11
Alliance Phase 8
allies 8
alternate Filch flare 18
artifact cards 12
attack cards 7
attack versus attack 9
attack versus negotiate 9
B
bystanders 13
C
canceling powers 13
clarifications 18
colonies 6
colony track 13
committing ships
Alliance Phase 8
Launch Phase 8
compensation 10
completing tech 17
cosmic quake 18
cosmic tokens 18
D
deals 9
successful deals 10
unsuccessful deals 10
defender rewards 10
defending lost planets 18
defending without ships 18
defense 7
defense wins 10
defensive ally 8
depleting the destiny deck 18
destiny cards 7
Destiny Phase 7
drawing their own color 8
drawing cards as defense 8, 13
drawing encounter cards 13
E
encounter 7
encounter cards 7
F
flare cards 16
foreign colony track 6
four-planet variant 16
G
genesis planet 17
grudge tokens 18
H
hazard warning 18
hidden powers 16
L
lamps 11
Launch Phase 7
lost planets 13
lunar cannon 17
M
main player 7
morph 9
moving ships 6
N
negotiate cards 7
negotiate versus attack 9
negotiate versus negotiate 9
no cards as offense 8
no colonies during Regroup 18
no encounter cards in hand 13
O
offense 7
offensive ally 8
P
planets 6
Planning Phase 8
Prometheus 17
R
re-establishing a home colony 18
Regroup Phase 7
reinforcement cards 12
researching tech 17
Resolution Phase 10
Reveal Phase 8
S
second encounter rule 10
ships 6
Start Turn Phase 7
super abilities 16
systems 6
T
tech cards 17
technology variant 17
timing 18
timing indicators 11, 12
U
“use” powers 12
using tech 17
V
variants 16
W
warp 6
wild abilities 16
winning the game 6
Z
zapping powers 12
© 2018 Fantasy Flight Games. Published under license from Eon Products, Inc. Cosmic 
Encounter is a registered trademark of Eon Products, Inc. Fantasy Flight Supply is TM of 
Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are ® of Fantasy Flight Games. 
Fantasy Flight Games, 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 
651-639-1905. Actual components may vary from those those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 13 YEARS OF 
AGE OR YOUNGER.

Quick Reference
Phases of an Encounter
1.	 Start Turn: If the offense has no encounter cards, they 
discard and draw a new hand of eight cards.
2.	 Regroup: The offense retrieves one ship from the warp.
3.	 Destiny: The offense draws a destiny card to determine 
the defense and target system.
4.	 Launch: The offense aims the hyperspace gate at one of 
the defense’s planets in the target system and places one 
to four ships in the gate.
5.	 Alliance: The offense invites allies, then the defense 
invites allies. Starting to the left of the offense and 
continuing clockwise, allies join sides and send one to 
four ships each to help their side.
6.	 Planning: The offense and the defense each select an 
encounter card and play them facedown.
7.	 Reveal: The offense and the defense turn their 
encounter cards faceup and add up their totals. 
8.	 Resolution: Players determine the winner of the 
encounter and resolve any effects from the encounter.
Timing Conflicts
When timing conflicts occur, resolve effects in the following 
order: 
1.	 Offense
2.	 Defense
3.	 Other players (starting with the player to the left of the 
offense and proceeding clockwise)
Second Encounter Rule
If the offense won or made a successful deal and if this was 
the first encounter of their turn, they can have a second 
encounter starting with the Regroup Phase. Otherwise, 
the next player in clockwise order takes their turn, becoming 
the offense.
Defender Rewards
For each ship a defensive ally committed to an encounter that 
the defense wins, that player can do one of the following:
•	 Draw one card from the cosmic deck
•	 Take one of their ships from the warp and place it on one 
of their colonies of their choice
Deals
The main players in the encounter may trade any number of 
cards and allow up to one colonization, as follows:
Trade: A player can give any number of cards from their hand 
to the other player. A player can give cards without receiving 
any in return. 
Establish Colony: A player can choose any planet where they 
have a colony (home or foreign) and allow the other player to 
establish a colony on that planet, using their ships from the 
hyperspace gate or from colonies.
No Deal: If the main players do not agree to a deal, they both 
lose three ships to the warp.
Compensation
If a player loses an encounter by playing a negotiate card 
against an attack card, that player collects compensation. 
•	 The player takes a number of cards at random from 
the winner’s hand. The number of cards is equal to the 
number of ships that they sent to the warp as a result of 
losing the encounter. 
•	 If the winner does not have enough cards to fully 
compensate the other player, that player takes as many 
cards from the winner as they can.
Play Cosmic Encounter Online at 
www.cosmicencounter.com