Game from one player’s perspective
 60 min 8+ 1-4 
Goal of the game
In this game, you compete in the art of gardening: planting two Flowerbeds at a time with different flowers.
When there are no more free spaces visible on a Flowerbed, it is completed, scored, and replaced with a new 
unplanted one. You receive points for all visible Flower Pots and Plant Covers on your completed Flowerbed, 
and record these points on the corresponding scoring tracks. 
In the final stages, you will only invest your energy in the most promising Flowerbeds. 
The player with the most points at the end of the game wins.
	
	
 Cottage Garden :
	
	
 a colorful sea of flowers framed by walls, paths, and hedges. As ambitious gardeners, 
 you face the challenge of filling the beds in every corner of your garden with plants, 
inspired by the limited spaces to create ever new compositions. You have a variety of plants available 
to design your gardens — as well as flowerpots and plant covers — until diversity blooms everywhere. 
Be kind to the cats! 
Components
double-sided Nursery game board
Flower Tiles (puzzle pieces)
Flowerbeds, each with a light and a dark side
green large Gardener die
large round cardboard Parasol token
round cardboard Cat tokens
round cardboard Flowerpot tokens
cardboard Beehive tokens
Planting Tables with scoring tracks (1 each per player)
orange Flowerpot Scoring Cubes (3 per player)
blue Plant Cover Scoring Cubes (3 per player)
cardboard „Wheelbarrow“
Game rules
Before the First Game
Carefully remove the cardboard components from their punchboards.
The Wheelbarrow is composed of the body and the wheel. First fold up the front part 
of the body, then the sides, and finally, the back side. Then insert the front wheel.
With us, quality is first. If any components are missing or damaged, please contact us at 
ersatzteile@edition-spielwiese.de and we will provide a solution as soon as possible. 
You will find a list of all 36 Flowers Tile at the end of these rules; this could be important 
if you happen to lose one.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 © Edition Spielwiese 2016
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Kopernikusstr. 24
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 D-10245 Berlin
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 www.edition-spielwiese.berlin
Redaktion: Rolf Raupach, Michael Schmitt
Übersetzung: Jeffrey Allers
Gestaltunskonzept/Illustrationen: Andrea Boekhoff_ REDLINE, Emden
Layout/Satz Spielanleitung: Martin Kleinke
www.edition-spielwiese.de
Too many 
 rules to 
 read?

Preparation
Game Board
Place the Nursery in the middle, showing the side for the appropriate number of players (one side for 1-3 players, 
the other side for 4 players), shown on the starting Gardener space on each side of the board. Leave enough space 
on one side of the Nursery (about the same amount as the game board) for the Flower Tiles.
Flower Tiles and Wheelbarrow
Randomly fill the 16 spaces in the Nursery with the Flower Tiles (1 tile per space).
Place the remaining 20 Flower Tiles randomly in a „queue“ next to the Nursery.
Place the Wheelbarrow at one end to mark the start of the queue.
Player Components
Each player receives a Planting Table on which he places 3 orange and 3 blue Scoring Cubes on the starting space. 
Then each player randomly draws 2 Flowerbeds, placing them next to his Planting Table, with one showing the light 
side and one showing the dark side. In addition, each player takes 2 Cats.
Cat & Co.
Place the remaining Flowerbeds with the light sides showing, along with the Parasol, the remaining Cats, 
the Flowerpots and the Beehives on the other side of the Nursery.
The Gardener
Give the Gardener a value of „1“ (with 1-2 players, use a value of „2“) and place it on the starting space
in the Nursery.
All remaining components are returned to the box.
The Game
Immediately following is the explanation for the game for 2 to 4 players. The solo rules are at the end of the rules (on 
page 11). Players take turns in a clockwise direction. The last person to have weeded a garden is the starting player.
A turn consists of four phases, which are performed in order.
Refilling phase Planting phase Scoring phase Gardener phase
Refilling Phase
Check the Nursery spaces in the row or column (or diagonal in a 4-player game) indicated by the current position of 
the Gardener. (Let’s call it the „Gardener Row“.) If the 3 or 4 spaces of a Gardener Row are empty, you must fill those 
spaces using Flower Tiles from the queue. 
Fill the Gardener Row in the following manner:
1.	 Take the Flower Tile which is in the queue directly in front of the Wheelbarrow, and place it on the empty space 
	
of Gardener Row which is the closest to the Gardener.
2.	 Push the Wheelbarrow ahead to the next Flower Tile in the queue. Then take that Flower Tile and place it on 
	
the next empty space of Gardener Row which is the closest to the Gardener.
3.	 Repeat this procedure once or twice more, depending on whether 3 or 4 spaces are empty in the Gardener Row.
If only 1 or 2 spaces of the Gardener Row are empty, you may give up one Cat in order to fill those spaces 
(as described before) with the Flowers Tiles ahead of the Wheelbarrow in the queue. You are only allowed to do this 
special action if you give up a Cat, returning it to the reserve next to the Nursery.
Planting Phase
In the planting phase you must either
a)	 take a Flower Tile or 
b)	 take a Flowerpot.
You may not pass. 
a) Taking Flower Tiles
Choose a Flower Tiles from the Gardener Row.
Immediately place this Flower Tile on one of your Flowerbeds. 
(If you cannot do this, you are not allowed to take the tile, and must take a 
Flower Pot instead and place it immediately) 
In this example, 
you have your choice 
of the highlighted 
Flower Tiles. 
In this example, three spaces in 
the Gardener Row are empty. 
This shows the order in which 
the Gardener Row is to be filled.
1.
2.
3.
4.

The Planting Rules
n 	 You may flip over and rotate the Flower Tiles any way you like. 
n 	 You may not place Flowers Tiles onto or overlapping other Flower Tiles. 
	
The Flower Tiles may not protrude over the edge of a Flowerbed. 
n	 Flower Tiles that were placed may not be moved on a later turn. 
	
They remain in their places until the Flowerbed is completed.
n 	 You may cover spaces that show a Flowerpot or Plant Cover, but you are not required to 
	
(and you should try to avoid doing this too often).
n 	 You may not cover Cat and Flowerpot tokens.
b) Take a Flowerpot
Instead of taking a Flower Tile from the Nursery, you may take a Flowerpot from the reserve and place it 
immediately on an empty space on one of your Flowerbeds. This space is now occupied.
(You may not keep the Flowerpot in reserve for use on a later turn.)
Additionally, you can always place Cats from your reserve on an empty space of one of your Flowerbeds. 
The cardboard token covers exactly one space on a Flowerbed in the same manner as the smallest Flowers Tile. 
The cats, however, do not score any points.
You may, at all times (even when it is not your turn) ), take a Flower Tile provisionally from the Nursery to see how 
it fits on your Flowerbeds. Place the Parasol on that tile’s space in the Nursery, so that you know which space you 
 must return the tile to when you are finished. After you have returned the Flower Tile, place 
	
	
	
 the Parasol to the side of the Nursery again. 
Scoring Phase
To complete a Flowerbed, all spaces without Flowerpots or Plant Covers must be covered. 
Every Flowerbed completed at the end of the planting phase is scored.
Your Planting Table has 2 scoring tracks, one for the Flowerpots (spaces numbered 1-15), 
and another for the Plant Covers (spaces numbered 2-14, by twos).
Move exactly one of your Orange Cubes on the Flowerpot track as many spaces as to the number 
of Flowerpots visible on the Flowerbed you are scoring. (Each Flowerpot scores 1 point.) 
Covered Flowerpots do not count.
Move exactly one of your Blue Cubes on the Plant Cover track as many spaces as to the number 
of Plant Covers visible on the Flowerbed you are scoring. (Each Plant Cover scores 2 points.) 
Covered Plant Covers do not count.
You can freely choose which of your Orange or Blue Cube to move. Should you reach the target space „20“ before 
you have moved the cube all of the spaces, you forfeit the remaining spaces. (You may not distribute them between 
different cubes of the same color.) 
Using a Cat, it is possible for you to complete both Flowerbeds in the same round (see Planting Phase 
of your game turn). In this case, you may score the Flowerbeds in the order of your choosing. 
You do not receive and points for the Cat.
Tip: Reaching the target space on the track multiple times is so important in this game that 
occasionally you may have to forfeit some spaces when moving there.
Beehives
The first player to get his first Cube to the target space on either track 
receives the 2-Beehives token as a bonus. 
The second player to do so receives the 1-Beehive token. 
At the end of the game, each beehive is worth 1 point.
It is not possible for the same player to receive both tokens.
This Flowerpot from the reserve will 
count in the Flowerbed‘s score 
(see the next page). As such, the 
Flowerpots are more than just a way 
out of a less-than-ideal situation. 
The Cat completes the Flowerbed in 
this example, but it doesn‘t bring you 
any additional points.
In this Flowerbed you see just spaces that are 
not yet covered but have either a Flowerpot or 
a Plant Cover printed on them. 
This Flowerbed is considered completed.
This Example of a completed Flowerbed brings 
you 2 points for one of your Orange Cubes 
and 4 points for one of your Blue Cubes.
The right bed brings you 3 Points for 
Flowerpots and 2 for Plant Covers.
f
l
i
p
 
o
v
e
r
r
o
t
a
t
e

Cats and other Bonuses
Whenever you cross the red line with the mice on your scoring tracks while moving an Orange or Blue Cube, 
you receive a Cat from the reserve. You may use it immediately on a Flowerbed or place it in front of you for later.
If you moved the last of your three Orange or Blue Cubes from the starting space, you receive for each a Flowerpot 
token from the reserve, which must be placed on a Flowerbed immediately. 
This could complete the second Flowerbed. Score it as described above.
Cleanup and Replacing the Flowerbed
1.	 After a Flowerbed is scored, place all Flowerpot and Cat tokes from that Flowerbed back into the reserve 
	
next to the Nursery. 
2.	 Place all Flower Tiles from that Flowerbed in any order at the end of the queue.
	
(The end of the queue that is not marked by the Wheelbarrow.) 
3.	 Flip the now-empty Flowerbed to the other side (light to dark or dark to light) and place it in the middle of the table. 
4.	 Take the other Flowerbed from the center of the table and place it (without flipping it over) 
	
next to your other Flowerbed. 
Limit for Cats
You may only have two Cats in your personal reserve at the end of your turn. If you have more than two, 
place at least as many Cats on empty spaces of your Flowerbeds until you meet the requirement. 
If you complete a Flowerbed, score it as described above. 
Gardener Phase
At the end of your turn, you must move the Gardener Die located on the edge of the board one space 
in the direction of the arrows (clockwise).
Whenever the Gardner reaches the target space, you must increase the number on the die by 1. 
In a 2-player or 4-player game, the target space is the same as the starting space.
When the Gardener die is turned to „6“, the final round begins immediately.
In the four-player game, there are Gardener 
spaces not only along the rows and columns, 
but also on the diagonals.
The Gardener spaces have different arrow symbols. 
The reason for this is explained on page 10.
Final Round
Now you must give up all Flowerbeds with two or fewer Flower Tiles (the number of other tokens does not matter). 
You must now continue playing until you have completed any Flowerbeds you have left.
Take your turns in the same way as before, but with the following rule changes: 
Before each turn you lose 2 points by either moving 1 Orange Cube two spaces back on its scoring track or 
1 Blue Cube 1 space back (it is also allowed to move a cube in this way back to its starting space). 
If you do not have any more Flowerbeds at the start of your turn, you only perform the Gardener Phase. 
You do not lose any more points.
	
	
	
If your Cubes are all in the fields 0, 1 and 20 of the point track, you are forced to move the 
	
	
	
Cube back from the 20 space. Instead of losing only 2 points, you lose 5 or 6 points!
---
Whenever you complete a Flowerbed, you remove it from the game. You do not gain a new Flowerbed.
Through moving Cubes backwards on the point track and then subsequently scoring a Flowerbed, it may happen that 
the red line is crossed repeatedly or the starting space of the track is empty again. In these cases, the bonuses are 
awarded again. Note that you will not get a Cat when your Cube is moved backwards across the red line!
If you score a Flowerbed in the final round, you can use these bonuses to complete and score your second Flowerbed, 
if you have one.
Game End and Winner
The game ends when all the Flowerbeds have been removed from the game.
Total your points. The Orange Cubes are worth 1-15 points according to their position on the track, 
or 20 points if they are on the target space. The Blue Cubes are worth 2-14 points (by twos) or 
20 points if they are on the target space. 
Each hive is worth 1 point.
Cats in your reserve are worth nothing.
The player with the highest score wins:
If a tie, the tied player with more Beehives wins.
In a 3-player game, the target space is 
two arrow spaces before the starting space.
Exactly this situation, two orange cubes on space 1, the orange cubes 
from the target space points with an arrow to the „15“ space.

Strategie and Tips
Planning Ahead in the Game
This is how you can better plan 
your moves:
These types of game situations 
are what give „Cottage Garden“ 
its special appeal.
The Flower Tile on C3 looks attractive in this game situation, because in the next turn the tile on D2 will be available. 
However, this will only be available if the next player passes over this exact Flower Tile. If you are interested in the Flower Tile 
on C2, you could simply ignore it this turn, as this tile is sure to be available on your next turn. 
The tile on C4 can be ignored too, as an identical tile will be available next turn on A2.
Not Enough Components
If there are not enough Flower Tiles to fill the Nursery, fill it with as many as you can. The empty spaces are not filled 
after-the-fact when new Flower Tiles are added back to the queue.
Your Cubes, however, are limited. If all 3 Cubes of one color have reached the target space, you can score no further 
points in that color. 
The Arrow Spaces
There are different arrow symbols on the movement spaces for the Gardener. These are to help you plan ahead. 
n 	 In the four-player game, your turn will always take place on the same arrow. 
	
The starting player will always visit rows marked by the arrow . The second player has the arrow ,
	
the third player the arrow , and the fourth arrow .
n 	 In a three player game, there is a shift. Whenever the Gardener reaches the starting space, each player is 
	
assigned a new arrow. Until then, you can orient your turns on a particular symbol in order to plan ahead.
n 	 In the two-player game, the first player always visits rows 1 and 3, and the second player has the rows 
	
2 and 4 of each side. To denote this, no distinction between the arrows is required. 
Solo Rules
If you want to play alone, use the two-player rules with the following changes:
Additions to the Game Preparation
Turn the Game Board to the side for 1-3 players. 
Set the Gardener die to the number „2“ and place it on the starting space for 1-2 players.
For the whole game, you only need three Flowerbeds: you receive two Flowerbeds for yourself, one with the 
light side and one with the dark side up. Place the third in the middle with the light side showing. 
You may choose which Flowerbeds you will play with, or you may draw them randomly.
You do not need any point tokens (beehives).
 
Additions to Gameplay
The game consists of 32 turns plus the final round: you move the Gardener four times around the board and move it 
two arrow spaces each turn. (That way, you always use only the first and third row of a each side. The second and 
fourth rows are blocked.)
The Goal of the Solo Game
The aim of the solo game is to score as many points as possible. 
A result of more than 70 points can be considered very good result. 80 points would be outstanding.
Thanks
As the first project of Edition Spielwiese, Cottage Garden could only have been made possible with 
the help of many people. Each of the following had a large role in the project, either with playtesting, technical 
questions, or simply cheering us on. The order of this list is random and and certainly not complete:
The Monday Game Designer group in Spielwiese, the international Monday Meeting Group, Sebastian Runge 
and Sebastian Rieneckert from Altenburger, Holger Zimmermann, Walter Phippeny, Mario Coopmann, 
Michael Menzel, Matthias Nagy, Kolja Kosim, Karin Janner, Andrea Boekhoff, Martin Kleinke and Greta, 
Julian Steindorfer, Frank Heeren, Klemens Franz, Jeffrey Allers, Peter Dringautzki, Fabian Louton, Inike, 
Kyra and Matilda Rosenbach, Heike Plumer, Timmo Niesner, Jan and Johannes from Hunter&Cron, 
as Sophia Wagner and Jan Saynisch.
A	
 B C D

2x
2A
2B
2C
3A
3B
3C
3D
3E
3F
4A
4B
4C
4D
4E
4F
4G
4H
5A
5B
5C
5D
5E
5F
5G
5H
5I
6A
6B
6C
6D
6E
6F
6G
6H
Sollte etwas fehlen oder beschädigt sein, wendet euch bitte an 
ersatzteile@edition-spielwiese.de. < Bestellnummer!
If any components are missing or damaged, please contact us at 
ersatzteile@edition-spielwiese.de. < Item number!
6F
6D
6H
6E
5B
5C
A
5F
5E
5H
5I
4D
4C
4G
4A
4H
4E
F
3D
3A
2A
3E
List of 36 Flower Tiles
8 six-space Flower Tiles
9 ﬁ ve-space Flower Tiles
Special feature: 
There is exactly one Flower Tile that is ﬁ ve squares tall and shows a Flowerpot. (5F) This tile has an additional reward.
8 four-space Flower Tiles 
11 three to one-space Flower Tiles
Special feature: 
The Flower Tiles that are only one space in size show a Plant Cover. (1A)
Two of the Flower Tiles that are two spaces in size show a Flowerpot. (2A and 2B) 
These tiles give an additional reward.
Verzeichnis der 36 Blumenplättchen
11 ein- bis drei-Felder-große Blumenplättchen
Besonderheit: 
Die Blumenplättchen, die nur ein Feld groß sind, zeigen eine Pﬂ anzglocke. (1A) 
Zwei Blumenplättchen, die zwei Felder groß sind, weisen einen Blumentopf auf. (2A und 2B)
Diese Plättchen geben eine zusätzliche Belohnung.
8 vier-Felder-große Blumenplättchen
9 fünf-Felder-große Blumenplättchen 
Besonderheit: 
Es gibt genau ein Blumenplättchen, das fünf Felder 
groß ist und einen Blumentopf 
zeigt. (5F) Dieses Plättchen gibt 
eine zusätzliche Belohnung.
8 sechs-Felder-große Blumenplättchen