In the not too distant future, the government is run for profit by a new 
“royal class” of multinational CEOs. Their greed and absolute control of 
the economy has reduced all but a privileged few to lives of poverty and 
desperation. Out of the oppressed masses rose The Resistance, an underground 
organization focused on overthrowing these powerful rulers. The valiant 
efforts of The Resistance have created discord, intrigue and weakness in the 
political courts of the noveau royal, bringing the government to brink of 
collapse. But for you, a powerful government official, this is your opportunity 
to manipulate, bribe and bluff your way into absolute power. To be successful, 
you must destroy the influence of your rivals and drive them into exile. 
In these turbulent times there is only room for one to survive.
Contents
15 character cards 
(3 each of Duke, Assassin, Captain, Ambassador, Contessa) 
6 summary cards 
50 coins 
Rules
Set-Up
Shuffle all the character cards and deal 2 to each player. Players can 
always look at their cards but must keep them face down in front of 
them. Place the remaining cards in the middle of the play area as the 
Court deck.
Give each player 2 coins. Each player’s money must be kept visible. 
Place the remaining coins in the middle of the play area as the Treasury. 
Give one summary card to each player. This is for reference only. 
Players should familiarize themselves with all the actions and characters 
before starting the game.
The person who won the last game starts. 

Goal
To eliminate the influence of all other players and be the last survivor.
Influence
Face down cards in front of a player represent who they influence 
at court. The characters printed on their face down cards represents 
which characters that player influences and their abilities.
Every time a player loses an influence they have to turn over and 
reveal one of their face down cards. Revealed cards remain face up in 
front of the player visible to everyone and no longer provide influence 
for the player. Each player always chooses which of their own cards 
they wish to reveal when they lose an influence.
When a player has lost all their influence they are exiled 
and out of the game.
Game Play
The game is played in turns in clockwise order.
Each turn a player chooses one action only. A player may not pass.
After the action is chosen other players have an opportunity to 
challenge or counteract that action.
If an action is not challenged or counteracted, the action 
automatically succeeds. 
Challenges are resolved first before any action or 
counteraction is resolved. 
When a player has lost all their influence and both their cards are 
face up in front of them, they are immediately out of the game. 
They leave their cards face up and return all their coins to the Treasury.
The game ends when there is only one player left.

Actions
A player may choose any action they want and can afford.
Some actions (Character Actions) require influencing characters. 
If they choose a Character Action a player must claim that the 
required character is one of their face down cards. They can be 
telling the truth or bluffing. They do not need to reveal any of their 
face down cards unless they are challenged. If they are not challenged 
they automatically succeed.
If a player starts their turn with 10 (or more) coins they must launch a 
Coup that turn as their only action.
General Actions 
(Always available)
Income 
Take 1 coin from the Treasury
Foreign Aid 
Take 2 coins from the Treasury. (Can be blocked by the Duke)
Coup 
Pay 7 coins to the Treasury and launch a Coup against another 
player. That player immediately loses an influence. A Coup is always 
successful. If you start your turn with 10 (or more) coins you are 
required to launch a Coup.
Character Actions 
(If challenged a player must show they influence the relevant character)
 
Duke – Tax 
Take 3 coins from the Treasury.
Assassin – Assassinate 
Pay 3 coins to the Treasury and launch an 
assassination against another player. If successful 
that player immediately loses an influence. 
(Can be blocked by the Contessa)

Captain – Steal 
Take 2 coins from another player. If they only have 
one coin, take only one. (Can be blocked by the 
Ambassador or the Captain)
Ambassador – Exchange 
Exchange cards with the Court. First take 2 random 
cards from the Court deck. Choose which, if any, to 
exchange with your face down cards. Then return two 
cards to the Court deck.
Counteractions 
Counteractions can be taken by other players to intervene or block a player’s action. 
Counteractions operate like character actions. Players may claim to 
influence any of the characters and use their abilities to counteract 
another player. They may be telling the truth or bluffing. They do 
not need to show any cards unless challenged. Counteractions may be 
challenged, but if not challenged they automatically succeed. If an 
action is successfully counteracted, the action fails but any coins paid as 
the cost of the action remain spent. 
 
Duke – Blocks Foreign Aid 
Any player claiming the Duke may counteract and 
block a player attempting to collect foreign aid. 
The player trying to gain foreign aid receives 
no coins that turn.
Contessa – Blocks Assassination 
The player who is being assassinated may claim the 
Contessa and counteract to block the assassination. 
The assassination fails but the fee paid by the player for 
the assassin remains spent.
Ambassador/Captain – Blocks Stealing 
The player who is being stolen from may claim either 
the Ambassador or the Captain and counteract to 
block the steal. The player trying to steal receives no 
coins that turn.

Challenges
Any action or counteraction using character influence 
can be challenged. 
Any other player can issue a challenge to a player regardless of whether 
they are the involved in the action. 
Once an action or counteraction is declared other players must be given 
an opportunity to challenge. Once play continues challenges cannot be 
retro-actively issued.
If a player is challenged they must prove they had the required 
influence by showing the relevant character is one of their face down 
cards. If they can’t, or do not wish to, prove it, they lose the challenge. 
If they can, the challenger loses.
Whoever loses the challenge immediately loses an influence.
If a player wins a challenge by showing the relevant character card, they 
first return that card to the Court deck, re-shuffle the Court deck and 
take a random replacement card. (That way they have not lost an influence 
and other players do not know the new influence card they have). Then the 
action or counteraction is resolved.
If an action is successfully challenged the entire action fails, and any 
coins paid as the cost of the action are returned to the player.
Example Play
3 players. Each start with 2 influence cards and 2 coins. The 
remaining 9 character cards make up the Court deck.
Natasha has been dealt the Contessa and Duke. She starts and on 
her first turn she claims she has the Duke and takes 3 coins. No 
one challenges her. She now has 5 coins.
Sacha has the Captain and the Contessa. But on his turn he bluffs 
and claims to have the Ambassador. No one challenges him so 
he takes two new cards from the Court deck. An Assassin and a 
Duke. He keeps the Assassin and his original Captain and returns 
the Duke and Contessa to the Court. He still has 2 coins.

Haig has been dealt an Assassin and a Duke. On his first turn he 
claims the Duke and takes 3 coins. Sacha thinks Haig is bluffing 
and challenges him. Haig shows a Duke and wins the challenge. 
Haig keeps the 3 coins that the Duke provided him but has to 
return his Duke card to the Court. He shuffles the Court deck 
and takes a new random card, a Contessa. Sacha lost the challenge 
and has to lose an influence. He chooses to lose his Assassin, turns 
it over and leaves it face up in front of him.
After the first turn:
Natasha has 2 influence remaining (Contessa and Duke) and 5 coins 
Sacha has 1 influence remaining (Captain) and 2 coins. 
Haig has 2 influence remaining (Assassin and Contessa) and 5 coins One 
Assassin has been revealed and is face up on the table.
Continuing on...
Natasha continues to claim the Duke. She takes 3 coins, no one 
challenges her. She now has 8 coins.
Sacha just takes Income of 1 coin. He does not have to claim to 
influence any characters and no one can block it. 
He now has 3 coins.
Haig claims the Assassin, pays 3 coins to the Treasury and 
attempts to assassinate Natasha. No one challenges his Assassin, 
but Natasha claims to have the Contessa that blocks the 
Assassin. No one challenges her so the assassination fails. The 3 
coins remain spent so Haig has now 2 coins.
Natasha now spends 7 coins to launch a Coup against Haig. A 
Coup cannot be blocked. Haig loses an influence and chooses 
to turn over his Contessa. Natasha has 1 coin remaining.
Sacha claims the Captain to take 2 coins from Haig. No 
one challenges Sacha’s Captain but Haig claims to have 
an Ambassador that blocks the Captain. Sacha chooses to 
challenge. Haig cannot show an Ambassador and loses his last 
influence, turning over his Assassin. Sacha receives his 2 coins 
from the Captain’s successful steal and now has 5 coins.

At this stage
Natasha has 2 influence remaining (Contessa and Duke) and 1 coin. 
Sacha has 1 influence remaining (Captain) and 5 coins. 
Haig is out of the game. 
Two Assassins and One Contessa have been revealed and are 
face up on the table.
Play continues...
Note: Double Dangers of Assasination
It is possible to lose 2 influence in one turn if you unsuccessfully defend against an 
assassination. For example, if you challenge an assassin used against you and lose 
the challenge, you will lose 1 influence for the lost challenge and then 1 influence 
for the successful assassination. Or if you bluff about having the Contessa to block 
an assassination attempt and are challenged, you will lose 1 influence for the lost 
challenge and then lose 1 influence for the successful assassination. 
Total (Lack of) Trust
Any negotiations are allowed, but none are ever binding. 
Players are not allowed to reveal any of their cards to other players. 
No coins can be given or lent to other players.
There is no second place.
Two Player Coup & Two Player Variant
When playing Coup with two players, the starting player receives only 1 coin at 
the beginning of the game. 
As a variant, Coup can be played with two players with these changes to the setup:
Divide the cards into a 3 sets of 5 (each set has one of each character). 
Each player takes one set, secretly chooses one card and discards the rest. 
Shuffle the third set and deal one card to each player and then put 
the remaining three cards face down as the court deck. 
Credits 
Game Design: Rikki Tahta, La Mame Games
Development: Haig Tahta & Sacha Tahta 
Testing: Everyone at La Mame
Graphic Design: Luis Francisco
Illustration: Jarek Nocoń

Like Coup?
Your local hobby store has the 
Reformation expansion that 
brings more roles, more actions 
and more players to Coup.
The Resistance
is the ultimate game of hidden 
identities, deduction and deception 
for 5 to 10 players.
Hidden Agenda and Hostile Intent 
are two expansions that are already 
available for The Resistance that add 
countless hours of deceptive fun. 
If you enjoy Coup, look for other games in
The Resistance 
Universe
at your local hobby store.
If you liked this game, you can find it and 
other small publisher games online at 
www.Indieboardsandcards.Com