Once Coyote nearly drowned and lost all his 
belongings while crossing the river with his animal friends. 
Poor Coyote became very sad … and jealous. 
So he challenged the other animals to a game to win their posses-
sions. Being an infamous Trickster, Coyote invented a bluffing game 
in which everyone has to lie, because nobody knows the truth. 
Rumor has it that the game was quite similar to this one!
GAME COMPONENTS
17 Playing cards 
 15 Number cards: -10, -5, 0 to 10, 
15 and 20
 2 Special cards: ? and Max 0
18 Peek cards
1 Coyote card 
for TRICKSTER 
VARIANT only
6 card stands
back: 
closed eye
front: 
open eye

SETUP
1. Shuffle all Playing cards and place them on the table as a face-
down deck.
2. Each player takes a card stand and puts it in front of them. 
3. Each player takes 3 Peek cards and places them – with 2 open 
and 1 closed eye – side by side in front of them. Put any 
remaining Peek cards back in the box. 
GAMEPLAY
Coyote is played over a number of rounds. At the beginning of each 
round each player draws 1 Playing card from the deck without 
looking at it. Place the card in your card stand so that the back 
is facing to you and only the other players can 
see the front. Make sure the card is not 
upside down.
Important: Players are not allowed 
to look at the front of their 
own card!
Additionally place 1 extra Playing 
card from the deck face-down in 
the center of the table. It is 
unknown to all players.
ce
nte
r

The youngest player becomes the start player of the first round.
The start player takes the first turn by making the first bid: 
Look at the value of your opponents’ Playing cards and declare an 
estimated total value of all cards in play – including your own card 
and the face-down extra card in the center. 
You can bid any number you choose, but you should try not to 
overbid. Of course you can bluff to deceive your opponents.
Then it is the turn of the next player in clockwise direction.
On their turn they must either raise the bid or challenge the bid. 
Play proceeds clockwise until a bid is challenged. 
 RAISE THE BID 
Bid any number that is higher than the number declared by the 
previous player. Then the next player takes their turn. 

 CHALLENGE THE BID 
Instead of raising the bid, you can challenge the current bid, if 
you think the total value is less than the number declared by the 
previous player. 
Now put all cards in the card stands face-up on the table and reveal 
the extra card in the center. Count the total value of the cards to 
determine who is right (for the effects of the Special cards please 
see SPECIAL CARDS): 
• If the total value of the cards is less than the previous bid, you 
win the challenge and the previous player loses. 
• If the total value of the cards is equal to or higher than the 
previous bid, you lose the challenge and the previous player wins.
Example:
The winner flips 1 of their Peek cards 
showing a closed eye to the side with the 
open eye, if available. 
The loser discards any 1 of their Peek 
cards and puts it back into the box.
Important: As soon as you have no more 
Peek cards, you are out of the game! 
After resolving the challenge the round 
ends. Shuffle all Playing cards and place them as the new face-
down deck in the center of the table. The loser becomes the start 
player of the next round. 
If this player is now out of the game, the player sitting to their left 
becomes the start player instead. 
your card
card in the center
cards of the other players
total value

 SPECIAL CARDS 
The Special cards do not have a fixed value, but their effect may 
change the total value of the cards in play:
When resolving a challenge, replace this card with the top 
card from the deck and add the value of that card instead. 
This card changes the value of the highest valued Number 
card in play to 0. If both Special cards are in play, first 
draw the replacement card for the ? card, before applying 
the special effect of the Max 0 card. 
 PEEKING 
If you have at least 1 Peek card 
showing an open eye, you may use its 
special effect at the beginning of your 
turn:
Flip 1 Peek card showing an open eye 
to secretly peek at the extra card in the 
center of the table. After that you must
raise the bid!
Important: The start player must not peek on their first turn.
END OF THE GAME
Play continues until all but one player are out of the game. The last 
player to remain in the game is the winner! 

TRICKSTER VARIANT
If you are familiar with the basic rules, we 
suggest to play with the following changes: 
1. You start the game with only 1 open and 
2 closed eyes on your Peek cards.
2. Before resolving a challenge all players except the challenger and 
the previous bidder must guess simultaneously, who will be the 
winner: on the count of three, they point at the player they believe 
will win the challenge. 
• If you guessed right, flip 1 of your Peek cards showing a closed 
eye to the side with the open eye, if available. 
• If you guessed wrong, flip 1 of your Peek cards showing an 
open eye to the side with the closed eye, if available.
3. During setup, additionally place the Coyote card in 
the center of the table. The loser of a round receives 
the Coyote card and puts it in front of them. You 
may use its special effect once in the next round: 
At the beginning of your turn you may draw the top 
card from the deck, secretly look at it and place it 
face-down next to the extra card already lying in 
the center of the table. Place the Coyote card on top 
of the new card. After that you must raise the bid! 
The other players may not choose to peek at the new card in the 
center. 
Important: You must not use the special effect of the Coyote card 
on your first turn. 
The new card in the center of the table additionally counts to the 
total value of the cards already in play and will also be revealed 
when resolving a challenge.

Note: If you do not use the special effect of the Coyote card, it 
will still go to the loser of the current round.
Example:
Game Design: Spartaco Albertarelli 
Development: Roland Goslar
Artwork: Zona Evon Shroyer 
(Yupik Alaskan Native)
Cultural Advisor: Renée Ametané’e Roman 
Nose (enrolled member of the Cheyenne 
and Arapaho Tribes)
Graphic Design: Marina Fahrenbach
Layout: Annika Brüning
Editing: Matthias Wagner
Producer: Heiko Eller-Bilz
Additional Support: Sabine Machaczek
Proofreading: Chris Baylis, Autumn Collier, 
Tim Leuftink
Thanks to: all our friends and playtesters
WWW.HEIDELBAER.DE
 CREDITS
© 2020 HeidelBÄR Games GmbH. COYOTE, the HeidelBÄR Games logo 
and HeidelBÄR Games are TMs of HeidelBÄR Games GmbH, Hauptstr. 107, 
63897 Miltenberg, Germany. Distributed exclusively in the US by Asmodee 
North America, 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, 
USA, 1-651-639-1905. Made in Poland. Actual components may vary from 
those shown. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS AGE 9 OR YOUNGER. 
Retain this information for your records.
cards in the center
total value
cards of the other players
your card
TM

ART AND CULTURAL 
BACKGROUND
“There is no word for art in our Native languages of North America. 
We take something practical and make it beautiful. The designs for 
this card game incorporate symbolism for balance, completion, new 
beginnings, birth, life, positivity, abundance, faith, the eagle, baby 
eagle, coyote, turtle, bear and beaver. 
Coyote is the Trickster, cunning, clever, unreliable and quite sneaky. 
His devious mind cannot be trusted, but the lessons we learn from his 
misdeeds and misadventures will stay with us throughout our lives.
Northwest Coastal art is detailed and can be quite complex, requiring 
years of study and practice to produce stunning works of art as you 
see from the Coyote on the cover created by Tlingit artist, Zona Evon 
Shroyer, and from the art on the cards within the game. 
This compelling art captures the imagination, is embedded with 
meaning and pulls at the eyes and the heart. These art pieces often 
signify clan membership, people of honor, significant stories and the 
once outlawed Potlatch ceremony.” – Renée Roman Nose, Cheyenne
About the artist:
Zona Evon Shroyer has been an artist for much of her life, utilizing 
her talents in metal sculpture by creating sculptures and furniture, 
painting in acrylic and watercolor. She has studied with noted artist, 
George David. She has had art showings at the Ethnic Heritage Art 
Gallery, Chief Seattle Club, the Daybreak Star Cultural Center, at 
Tillicum Village, Snoqualmie Casino and the Tulalip Casino, among 
other places. 
artbyzonashroyer.com
r.com