CONTENTS
CONTENTS
Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Gameplay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Challenge Meals . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Critic Meal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Winning. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Restaurateurs. . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Solo Mode. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Clarifications. . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Location 
Boards
It’s Restaurant Week 
in Bistro Bay! 
Your kitchen of critters will cook 
up delicious dishes while also 
planning an epic 7-course meal 
to impress a celebrity critic!
You’ll be sending your top 
chefs out into the city to gather 
ingredients, create amazing 
meals, and demonstrate that your 
restaurant is the best in town!
 Ingredient 
Rumor 
 Star Tokens 
(1s, 5s, 10s)
Restaurateur 
Maître d’ 
Card
Rumor 
 Allspice 
7th-Round 
-General Components
General Components
Home of the Infinite Bowl of Soup
Welcome to 
Bistro Bay!
Bistro Bay!

 
Player Components
Player Components
 Token 
Bag
Zous-chef 
Cards 12
Zous-chef 
Chefs Figures 
(mice, lizards, and boars)
Plates
 
Solo Components
Solo Components
Plates
Chef 
Hats
Player Kitchen 
Boards
Player Restaurant 
Shields
McDogald’s Kitchen Board
Critic’s Choice 
Location 
 Waterfront 
Board
Chef Cards
Manager 
 Hold 
Token 1
 Round 
Tracker
 Bisque 

	
Maître d’: Nominate a player to be 
maître d’ and give them the Maître 
d’ Card. They will be responsible for 
guiding players through setup at the 
beginning of each round.
2 	Token Bag: Put all Ingredient, Spice, and 
Rumor Tokens (oblong shape) into the bag 
and shake it.
	Waterfront: Place the Waterfront Board 
in the middle of the table and follow 
these steps to set it up: 
a 	 Place the Round Tracker on round 1 of 
the round track. Place the Hold Token 
on round 3. Place one of the Allspice 
7th-Round Tokens on round 7.
b 	 Separately shuffle the Challenge, 
Critic, and Rumor Cards, and fill the 
slots along the top of the board from 
left to right in the following order. 	
Return the remaining cards to the 
game box without looking at them. 
	
	 6 challenges (face down)
	
d 	 1 critic (face up)
	
e 	 3 rumors (face down)
	Locations: Follow these steps to set up 
the locations.
f 	 Find the 5 Location Boards 
with a number on the 
back. Return each board 
with a number higher than 
your player count to the game box 
(e.g. with 3 players, use locations 
1-3). Lay the remaining boards out in 
a row in numbered order from left to 
right, then flip each of them face up.
g 	 Place the Soup Truck at the left end 
of the row. Pile the Soup Tokens on 
the truck in the indicated spot and 
place the Bisque Tokens next to the 
Soup Truck.
h 	 Place the Midnight Merchant 
and Chef Academy (in that order) 
on the right end of the row. 
Use the side marked “2” in 
a 2-player game, otherwise 
use the other side.
i 	 Shuffle the Zous-chef Cards and place 
them in a face-down deck on the 
Chef Academy. Gather all Zous-chef 
Tokens and place nearby.
5 	Star Tokens: Pile all Star Tokens 
to the side.
First Game: If you haven’t played before, 
we suggest using The Mouse as your critic, 
and removing all advanced rumors from 
the deck. Advanced rumors are marked by 
a waiter with an orange cloth.
2-Player
3-Player
(shown)
 
g
f
f
a
b
c
*

Each player takes the following steps to set up:
	Components: Pick a color and take the 
Restaurant Shield, Kitchen Board, Chef Hat, 
and 3 Chef Figures (mouse, lizard, and boar) 
in your color. Set up your shield to create your 
hidden storage next to your Kitchen Board, 
so everyone can see your kitchen. Place your 
Kitchen Board with its score side face down 
and place your chefs on your kitchen. 
A
4-Player
5-Player
A
L
h
d
e
i4
	
Location Cards: Take the 9 Location Cards 
of your color. Create your hand by keeping 
the cards matching the locations used in 
the game and return the remaining 
cards (including the Break Time Card) 
to the box.
	
Plates: Place a Critic Plate and 3 Challenge 
Plates anywhere in your player area. 
These may be hidden behind your shield 
during play.
	
Starting Soup: Take 1 soup and hide it 
behind your shield.
	
Chef Hats: Mix your Chef Hat in with 
the other players’ hats and line them up 
in a random order on the priority track 
of the Waterfront Board.
	
Restaurateurs (optional): Deal each player 
2 Restaurateur Cards. Players pick one and 
display it face up next to their kitchen and 
return the other to the box.
*

To win the game, your restaurant needs to earn 
the most stars. You earn stars by presenting 
high-quality meals at the end of each day. 
You’ll send your chefs out to Bistro Bay to 
collect fresh ingredients and other items 
that can help you prepare the best dishes.
Locations
Locations
Each location provides 
a fresh supply of 
ingredients, spices, 
soup, and rumors. 
You’ll send your chefs 
to these locations 
each round using your 
Locations Cards. 
Location name
Queues
Each game a celebrity critic 
will visit the town, seeking a 
spectacular 7-course meal from 
every restaurant. Critics each 
bring a unique rule to the table.
name
rules
Ingredients, spices, Value, and Quality
Ingredients, spices, Value, and Quality
Prepare your meals using 
7 different ingredient types. 
Add the spice matching your 
ingredient to double its value.
•	 Each ingredient brings its own VALUE to meals.
•	 Add all ingredient values to get your meal QUALITY.
12 total 
quality!
Value
Type
type
symbol
+
=
Rumors, Soup, AND Bisque
Rumors, Soup, AND Bisque
•	 Rumors give you a peek at 
hidden information; insight 
into how the critic meal 
will score.
Bisque
Item spaces
Critic rules can affect:
Challenges
•	 Soup and bisque are the perfect 
compliment to your challenge 
meals. Serve them to add to the 
quality of your challenge meals 
and/or substitute for an ingredient.
Wild rumor
Rumor type

Step 1: Start of Round
At the start of each round, the various vendors of Bistro Bay must prepare for the day’s clientele. 
The maître d’ can guide everyone through this process by following the Maître d’ Card. 
	
	 Restock bisque: 
If the bisque space on the 
Soup Truck is empty, place 
1 bisque there from the 
supply.
	
	
	
	 Reveal a new challenge: 
Flip the leftmost face-down 
Challenge Card on the 
Waterfront Board. If there is 
a Hold Token on the current 
space of the round track, place 
it on the card to cover the 
rightmost required ingredient.
	
	 Restock items: 
Go through each location, 
skipping the Soup Truck, and 
fill each item space with a 
random item from the bag. 
Do not place any items on 
the Midnight Merchant or 
Chef Academy.
	
	 Reveal a new zous-chef: 
Reveal a new Zous-chef Card 
at the Chef Academy. Find 
the matching Zous-chef Token 
and place it on the location. 
Remove the previous round’s 
zous-chef from the game if it 
wasn’t picked.
7th Round Only: Do not 
reveal a new challenge.
2 Players Only: Also fill the 
2 item spaces on the Chef 
Academy from the bag. 
The game takes place over 7 rounds, divided into 3 days. Each round has 5 steps:


7th Round Only: Instead of 
revealing a new zous-chef, take 
the Allspice 7th-Round Token 
from the round track and place 
it on the Chef Academy.

ZOUS-CHEF INSTRUCTIONS
Each round, the academy presents one fresh zous-chef student for an internship. 
Pick them and you’ll gain an extra chef with a unique special ability for the 
following round. Each zous-chef works only for the next round, so make good 
use of their help!
If you have a Zous-chef Card in the Planning step, 
you must place an extra face-down Location Card 
in the card slot of your Zous-chef Card.
You cannot choose to save your zous-chef for a 
future round. (If you forget to give your zous-chef 
instructions, they still go away at the end of the round!)
Step 2: Planning
Once you’ve seen what Bistro Bay has to offer, it’s time to plan where 
to send your chefs this round. Each player simultaneously gives secret 
instructions to their chefs by placing Location Cards face down above 
their Kitchen Board. 
You must place 1 Location Card face down in each of your 3 card slots 
to tell your chefs where to go. Each chef must go to a different location, 
since you only have 1 of each Location Card. Once all players have 
placed a card for each chef, you are ready to start the Running step.
Step 3: Running
Now it’s time to put your plans in motion! Each player flips all of their 
Location Cards face up, and immediately moves their chefs to the 
matching locations. 
When you place a chef at a location, place them in one of the 3 queues at 
the top of the location—the one that shows their carrying capacity. Chefs of 
the same carrying capacity are placed in the same queue.. Zous-chefs are 
placed according to the carrying capacity shown on their Zous-chef Card. 
The purple mouse, the yellow lizard 
and the blue boar all head to the 
Garden Top Shop and are placed in 
their corresponding queues.
After careful consideration 
(and hoping for a bit of 
luck) the yellow player has 
chosen Location Cards 
for their mouse, lizard and 
boar chefs.
CARRYING CAPACITY 
Each chef has a carrying capacity 
of 1, 2, or 3, which will determine 
in what order they act and how 
many items they can pick.
The speedy mouse gets their 
single pick before the lizard or 
the slower boar can load up.
•	 Start of Location: before any player 
takes an item at this location
•	 Before Your First Pick: before you take 
your first item at this location
•	 After Your Last Pick: after taking all 
of your items at this location
ZOUS-CHEF ABILITIES
Each zous-chef has a special ability that 
activates at a specific time in their location:
The purple mouse, yellow lizard 
and blue boar chefs all chose to 
visit the Garden Top Shop. The 
purple mouse chef picks first, 
taking only 1 item. The yellow 
lizard picks second, taking the 
remaining 2 items. There are no 
more items remaining for the 
boar to take. 
Name
Carrying 
capacity
Ability

Once all players have finished placing their chefs, resolve each 
location one at a time, starting with the Soup Truck and going 
along the row, left to right.
Resolving a Location
Resolving a Location
When a location is resolved, each chef there gets a chance 
to collect items in queue order. All chefs in the queue with a 
carrying capacity of 1 pick first, then the chefs in the queue with 
a carrying capacity of 2, and finally the chefs in the queue with a 
carrying capacity of 3. 
•	 If there is only 1 chef in a queue, they get to pick all of their 
items at once, before any chefs in the next queue pick. 
•	 If there are 2 or more chefs in the same queue, they alternate 
picking 1 item at a time in priority track order. Only once 
each of them has taken as much as they can carry can chefs 
in the next queue pick.
BREAKING TIES DURING SHOPPING
If multiple players have chefs in the same queue, 
they must use their current positions on the 
priority track to break the tie; with the rightmost 
Chef Hat indicating who goes first. 
Once a tie is resolved, the tied chefs alternate 
taking 1 item a time in the established order, 
until they each have enough items (or the location 
runs out).
Check if the chef going first loses position on the 
priority track:
•	 If the tied chef is the first chef to pick an 
item from this location, they (and only they) 
must move their Chef Hat to the back of the 
priority track. 
•	 Otherwise, no one moves their Chef Hat.
It is possible for a location with one or more ties 
to be fully resolved without anyone losing position 
(see example to the far right). 
The blue mouse (1) arrives at the Desert Vendor quickly 
and has the first choice of items. They grab the wine and 
head back to their kitchen.
The red mouse chef (C) is the only one at this 
location with their carrying capacity, so they pick 
first. The yellow (D) and blue (E) lizard chefs go 
next, with the yellow chef picking first since they 
are closer to the front of the priority track.
Since the yellow chef’s pick wasn’t the first pick 
at the location, no changes are made to the 
positions on the priority track.
The red boar (2) is ahead of the yellow 
boar (3) on the priority track, and 
takes the rumor for its first pick. The 
yellow boar then gets to pick next 
and takes the mushroom. Since the 
red boar still has carrying capacity it 
would now get to pick again, but as 
there are no items left at this location 
both boars head back to their 
kitchens with a light load.
The red (A) and yellow (B) mouse chefs are tied 
for first pick. The red chef picks first since it is in 
front of the yellow chef on the priority track. 
Additionally, since this is the first pick, the red 
player moves its chef hat to the back of the 
priority track. After both mouse chefs have 
picked, filling their carrying capacity, the blue 
lizard gets to pick.

Shopping (continued)
Picking Items
Picking Items
As you pick up various items, place them in these specific areas:
•	 Place ingredients, spices, soup, or bisque into storage 
behind your restaurant shield.
•	 Place rumors on the space on your kitchen board 
that matches their icon.
Items
Items
Collect a variety of items around town! Items include 
ingredients, spice, soup, and bisque—and even whispered 
rumors about what the celebrity chef most desires!
SPICES
Spices bring out the flavors of your dish. Spice 
doesn’t count as an ingredient and can never 
be used in a meal on its own. However, if you 
pair it with a matching ingredient, it doubles that 
ingredient’s value! 
Each spice can only be paired with a single 
Ingredient Token, and it only doubles that 
ingredient. Most spices have to be paired with a 
matching ingredient (e.g. meat spice must go on 
meat). The exception is the legendary allspice, 
which can be paired 
with an ingredient 
of any type!
There are 2 copies of each spice 
in the bag, including allspice.
SOUP AND BISQUE
When all else fails, there’s soup! The critic won’t 
fall for soup served instead of a tasty carrot or 
meat, but soup can be used to substitute for any 
ingredient in a challenge meal.
Soup only has a value of 1, but any amount of 
soup can be added to boost the quality of a 
challenge, whether or not it is standing in for 
other ingredients. For example, you can use soup 
as value 1 wine (weird, but it works) AND you 
can add soup on top of required ingredients just 
to keep adding +1 to the quality per soup. 
Bisque can also be taken from the Soup Truck. 
Bisque functions just like soup, except it has a 
value of 3. Players cannot exchange bisque for 
soup or soup for bisque.
All rules that refer to using 
soup apply to bisque as well.
INGREDIENTS 
Ingredients are the heart of your dishes, and 
quality is essential. There are 7 different types 
of ingredients (bread, carrot, cheese, fish, meat, 
mushroom and wine) you can collect, and you’ll 
want all of them to impress the critic!
Each Ingredient Token has a value from 2-7, 
reflecting its quality (a 7-value is a premium 
product, while a 2-value is only technically food). 
Using higher-valued ingredients in a meal leads 
to more stars, but 
sometimes you have 
to make do with what 
you’ve got!
There are 13 tokens of each ingredient in 
the bag (2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6, 6, 7).
allspice

•	 Place Zous-chef Card and 
matching Token beside 
your kitchen board.
CONSOLATION SOUP
If one of your chefs returns to your kitchen with no items at all, either 
by choice or circumstance, you may take 1 soup. You only get 1 soup, 
regardless of the chef’s carrying capacity. If they have collected even 
1 other item, no soup for you!
Leaving Early: When it’s your turn to pick an item, if you haven’t 
collected anything yet, you can choose to return your chef early 
and take a consolation soup instead. Sometimes, 1 soup in the 
hand is worth more than a 2 bread in the shop!
RUMORS
Gossip about the critic’s unique tastes is flying 
around town, and if your chefs are in the right 
place at the right time, they might catch a snippet 
of all-important info! Each face-down Rumor Card 
lists an extra condition the critic will use to score 
your final meal at the end of the game. Rumors 
only apply to the critic meal at the end of round 7.
Your chefs can pick rumors from locations just like ingredients and spice. When 
you pick a rumor, you may immediately peek at the matching Rumor Card on 
the Waterfront Board. Place the rumor on the matching rumor space of your 
Kitchen Board, so everyone can see you know that rumor. 
Once you know a rumor, you 
may peek at it again at any time 
for the rest of the game, if you 
forget what it is.
You may not collect the same rumor again—it doesn’t exist for you. 
If there is a rumor you know in your location, you must leave it 
for the other players. 
Wild Rumors: If you collect a wild 
rumor, you must immediately place it in 
your choice of any of your empty rumor 
spaces and treat it as that rumor. If you 
already know all 3 rumors, you may not 
take wild rumors.
Revealing Rumors: If every player knows the same rumor, flip the card face up. 
For the rest of the game, if that rumor is ever drawn from the bag, remove it 
from the game and draw again. 
Only one rumor should be 
viewed at a time to avoid 
returning them to the wrong spot. 
There are 3 copies of each Rumor Token in the bag, including wilds.
The boar chef doesn’t want 
the questionable 2-value 
bread or fish remaining at 
this location, and decides to 
take a single soup instead.
Once your chef has collected as much as they 
can carry, return them to your kitchen. If the 
location runs out of items before your chef has 
finished picking, you must return the chef to 
your kitchen immediately, with whatever they 
took. If your chef returns without any items at 
all, you get a consolation soup (see below).

SOUP TRUCK
Line up for Bistro Bay’s Soup Truck! It has multiple 
items on offer for chefs to pick, but is best known 
for its never-ending bowls of soup. In addition to 
any leftovers from the previous round, and the 
endless soup, there is a single bisque (the best-
valued soup) available each round.
The supply of 1-value soup is unlimited, so the 
Soup Truck can never run out of items, and chefs 
can pick soup multiple times.
MIDNIGHT MERCHANT
The Midnight Merchant traffics in ingredients and 
rumors just like other vendors, but you won’t know 
what’s on offer until you shop! 
Don’t add items to this location at the start of the 
round. When you reach this location, begin by 
drawing items from the bag to fill each of its spaces, 
even if no chefs came here. Chefs then pick items in 
queue order, as normal.
Shopping (continued)
Cleaning Up Each Location
Cleaning Up Each Location
Good ingredients make great meals, and the rest get used for cooking class. 
When the last chef at a location, except for the Chef Academy, returns to 
their kitchen, follow these steps to clean up any leftover items there before 
resolving the next location:
•	 Collect all leftover ingredient and spices and move them to the 
Chef Academy.
•	 Remove leftover rumors from the game. Any hot leads on the critic’s 
tastes are lost if no one is there to hear them.
Follow these steps even if no chef went to the location. 
For Chef Academy: after the last chef returns to their kitchen, 
all leftover ingredients and spices are moved to the Soup Truck. 
If the zous-chef wasn’t taken, return it to the box. 
Sorry, newbie—your time will come! 
Special Locations
Special Locations
Special locations are resolved like other locations, 
but each has a unique twist.
The Soup Truck can be a good spot to 
send your bigger chefs, since it’s the only 
location with unlimited items. Although 
soup isn’t very high quality, it can be useful 
for completing challenges, since it lets you 
ignore required ingredients. 
Sending a chef to the Midnight Merchant is 
a gamble. You don’t know what’ll show up 
until it’s time to pick!
The yellow lizard chef picks the delicious 
bisque as well as a mushroom ingredient that 
had previously moved to the Soup Truck. 
The purple boar chef fills their carrying 
capacity with three soup.

CHEF ACADEMY
The world-renowned Bistro Bay Chef Academy is 
where critters become culinary heavy hitters. It offers 
a zous-chef, as well as a second chance at the round’s 
leftovers before they go to the Soup Truck. 
It’s an adventure—you can’t know all the items that 
will be there when you are Planning.
Step 5: End of Round
After the Chef Academy is resolved, follow these steps to end the round:
	
	 Take back Location Cards: 
Each player returns all Location Cards 
to their hand. 
	
	 Zous-chef leaves: 
For any zous-chefs that were used 
this round, remove the Zous-chef 
Card and Token from the game. 
	
	 Prepare meals: 
For rounds 3 and 6 (end of days 1 
and 2) you will serve up challenges! 
(see Challenge Meals, pg. 14). 
For round 7 (the last day), the critic is 
here, so every restaurant will prepare 
the final plate (see Critic Meal pg. 16).
 	
	 Advance Round Tracker: 
Move the token 1 space 
on the round track.
Having an extra chef for the next round is always 
valuable! As for leftovers, most high-quality items 
will usually get picked up before they make it 
to the Chef Academy — but if any locations 
aren’t visited by chefs this round, there could 
be good pickings.
The red mouse chef and blue boar chef 
anxiously wait to see what items are revealed 
at the Midnight Merchant. 
The reward is worth the risk today—the mouse 
picks first and takes a great item but the boar 
is content with options.
The red mouse picks first 
and sees the potential of the 
zous-chef Ming, adding them 
to their kitchen. The purple 
mouse, sorry to have missed 
the opportunity for some help 
in the kitchen, settles for the 
5-value fish ingredient that was 
moved to the Chef Academy 
from another location.
The zous-chef counts as 1 item. If you take it, place 
the Zous-chef Card beside your kitchen and place the 
matching Zous-chef Token on it. You must use them as 
an extra chef next round. In the final round, the Chef 
Academy offers a special Allspice 7th-Round Token 
instead of a zous-chef (an end-of-class parting gift 
since there’s no next round).

It’s time to demonstrate your culinary chops to Bistro Bay by serving your top tastes 
for the restaurant week challenge meals. During challenge scoring at the end of days 
1 and 2 (after rounds 3 and 6 respectively), each player may present up to 3 meals 
to score the challenges revealed over the last 3 rounds. All players may attempt all 
challenges and do not influence or compete with each other. 
After challenges, any player who is above the current refrigeration limit in their 
storage must choose what they want to keep for the next round. 
When the Round Tracker moves onto a challenge meal space, follow these steps:
	
	
You may prepare 1 meal for each of the 3 face-up 
challenges, using your kitchen’s 3 challenge plates. 
All players prepare these meals simultaneously, 
publicly or hidden behind their shields per their 
preference, and present once everyone is ready.
Each meal you opt to present for a challenge must have at least 
1 ingredient matching each requirement on the card. If you don’t have a 
required ingredient or don’t want to use one, you may substitute 1 soup 
for it. You may substitute soup for multiple different ingredients, but you 
can’t prepare a meal that is all soup—you must have at least 1 required 
ingredient. A fancy name won’t fool the customers if all they get is soup!
As long as the above requirement is met, you can include any number 
of items of each required ingredient in your meal, as well as any number 
of soup. Pile on the meat for that Savory Stack Challenge, and throw in a 
bowl (or 2) of soup to fill out that plate!
	
	
Once all players have finished preparing their challenge meals, they 
simultaneously reveal their plates, presenting each meal in turn 
and collecting stars.
	
	
After scoring, return all spent soup and bisque to their supplies. 
Ingredients and spice served in challenges are returned to the 
Token Bag, and players take back their challenge plates.
If this is the end of day 1, place the Hold Token on the 
round 6 space of the Waterfront Board. 
1 Prepare Challenge Meals
4 Refrigerate
The quality of this meal is 21 and earns Nathan 4 stars. 
Nathan prepares a meal to satisfy the 
Ultimate Melt Challenge using...
 a spiced 2-value bread, a 
spiced 7-value fish, and 
bisque to both boost 
the quality and satisfy 
the requirement of the 
missing cheese. 
Nathan didn’t have 
sufficient ingredients to 
prepare a meal for the 
Wine & Dine Challenge 
(or wanted to save them 
for the critic).
For the Tasty Tapas Challenge, Nathan 
prepares a meal with...
a 6-value carrot, a 
2-value carrot, a 3-value 
mushroom, and a soup. 
The soup boosted the 
quality of the meal to meet 
the 2-star threshold, but 
was not needed to replace 
a required ingredient.
The quality of this meal is 12 and earns Nathan 2 stars. 
(2x2) + (2x7) + 3 = 21
6 + 2 + 3 + 1= 12

STAR TOKENS
Every restaurant wants stars 
and great ratings, and in 
Critter Kitchen stars are how 
you win the game. All stars 
you’ve collected should be 
displayed publicly—after all, 
they signify your restaurant’s 
hard-earned reputation! You 
may exchange Star Tokens 
of different denominations 
with the supply at any time.
	
	
After clean up, check that the number of leftover ingredients and spices 
in your storage is below the refrigeration limit. 
At the end of day 1 your small fridge can only hold 5 
items. By day 2 your walk-in fridge is ready for business, 
so you can keep 10 items as you head into round 7. 
These limits are shown on the Waterfront Board. Any 
excess tokens are returned to the Token Bag.
Only ingredients and spices count towards your limit. 
Soup does not need to be refrigerated, and you may 
keep any number of soup without affecting how many 
other items you keep. Rumors never count towards your 
refrigeration limit.
ADDING SPICE
Remember that you can pair spices with 
matching ingredients to double their value, 
increasing your meal’s quality. Each spice only 
doubles the value of the single ingredient it is 
paired with, and each ingredient may only be 
doubled by a single spice.
HOLD THE GRAVY
For the last dish each day you’ll need to get 
creative. The last challenge revealed before 
challenge scoring gets a Hold Token, which 
covers the rightmost requirement. Fewer 
required ingredients, but you might need 
more of them. The stars awarded are the 
same as the other challenge meals.
Adding a meat spice 
to this 6-value meat 
doubles the value it adds 
to a meal’s quality.
Day 1=
At the end of day 1 it’s time to pare down the ingredients and spices to 
what can fit in the fridge. 
 
Jack can’t keep it all! He loves cheese (and 
the critic values it too), so he will keep these 
2 ingredients, and 3 other valuable items. Jack 
returns the remaining meat, carrot, and fish 
ingredients back to the Token Bag. 
Soup is kept simmering in the kitchen overnight, 
so while the amount you have is still hidden, it 
doesn’t count against the limit in your fridge. 
You must reach a quality of at least 6 to present your meal and earn any stars!
Quality of 
challenge meal
Stars gained 
for each challenge meal
0-5
Not good enough to present! 
6-11
12-20
21+

The celebrity critic will arrive at any moment—time to dazzle them with 
your culinary skills. At the end of the 7th round, each player must present 
and score their final critic meal. Afterwards, the game ends immediately, 
and whoever has the most total stars wins!
For final scoring follow these steps:
1 Prepare the Critic Meal
2 Most Soup
3 All 7 Courses
4 Best of Each Course
5 Score Rumors
6 Bonus Score
7 Final Score
	
	
The critic is visiting every restaurant in one night! They will take a single 
bite of each course, so serve your best! For each course, you may choose 
a single ingredient and may add a single spice to it, placing it on the 
appropriate section of your Critic Plate. You can never serve a spice alone, 
and you may not substitute soup for any ingredients. The critic is not 
interested in your broth, consomme or chowder!
The courses must be presented to the critic in the order indicated 
on the Critic Plate.
Once everyone has prepared their meal, each player simultaneously 
presents their Critic Plate.
CRITIC CARD SPECIAL RULES
The Critic Card may change certain rules about 
how many or what type of items you can add to 
each course. Keep that in mind when collecting 
ingredients and preparing your meal!
FRIENDLY TIES
All ties when scoring stars are friendly ties. If 2 
or more players tie, all are awarded full stars.
Henry uses the best 
ingredient in his storage 
for each course. Fish 
spice has been added to 
the fish course, and the 
allspice has been used 
on the mushroom course 
where its doubling will 
have the greatest effect.
	
	
The player with the highest total value in soup and 
bisque is awarded 1 star. 

Nicole evaluates her prepared critic meal for each rumor. 
She earns 3 stars for Tender since her 3-value bread and 
7-value wine add up to the required 10. 
Nicole earns an additional 5 stars for Nocturnal since for each 
course she served the ingredient value is equal or higher than 
the one before it. 
Finally, she would earn 2 stars for Spice Lover if no other 
player served 3 or more spices in their critic meal.
In a 2-player game, Alex and Peter compare 
their meals for the critic, who allows one course 
in each meal to contain up to 4 ingredients 
of its type. 
	
	
Go through each of the 7 courses. For each course, 
the player who has the highest quality earns 1 star.
Peter took stars for the 
cheese and wine courses. 
This cow really likes wine 
as it turns out! 
Because both players tied 
for the meat course, they 
each earned a star for 
that course.
Alex earned stars for the 
bread, carrot, fish and 
mushroom courses. Alex 
chose a big bread course for 
the cow. Those extra rolls 
and pretzels helped earn the 
best-of star since they both 
had a tie for top ingredient.
	
	
Each player who has at least 1 ingredient for 7 courses earns 1 star. 
Congratulations on serving a 7-course meal!
	
	
Reveal all face-down rumors. Rumors that award stars are resolved 
immediately. Remember, friendly ties reward all tied players. The 
“Fanatic” rumors (with red tops) modify the scoring of courses and 
are resolved later during Final Scoring. Clarifications on how specific 
rumors work can be found at the end of the rulebook.
Alex
Peter

Once everyone has finished scoring their critic meal, the player with 
the most stars wins! 
If there’s a tie, the player who progressed the furthest on their score track 
wins. If there’s still a tie, whoever is ahead on the priority track wins.
Congratulations! 
You’ve proven yourself to have the finest restaurant in Bistro Bay. You’ll have 
lines out the door, and critters of all shapes and sizes will tell stories of your 
fine dining for years to come. 
	
	
If any cards (critic, restaurateurs, etc.) feature this 
Bonus Scoring symbol, gain the amount of stars 
shown on those cards now.
	
	
Each player flips their Kitchen Board over to the 
scoring side. Using your mouse chef as a marker, count 
up the quality of each course starting with the leftmost 
ingredient and continuing right. Remember to include 
the effects of spice, any critics, and fanatic rumors.
If your mouse passes the 70 space, collect 10 stars 
and continue back at the top of the scoring track.
Take the number of stars corresponding to your 
final row position on the scoring track.
Critic Meal (continued)
The resulting quality of 76 
means Kristin passes the 70 
space on the score track and 
collects 10 stars, returning 
to the top of the track and 
ending up on the 6 space for 
an additional 1 star.
Kristin scores her critic 
meal, remembering 
that the Tree Shrew 
allows her to multiply 
ingredient values by 3 
for each spice. 
Also, Kristin doubles 
the quality of the wine 
course because of the 
Wine Fanatic rumor. 
She didn’t even know 
this rumor, but scores 
all rumors regardless!
15 quality
42 quality
6 + 4 + 4 +
 + 5 + 
= 76

restaurateurs / Solo Mode
restaurateurs / Solo Mode
Restaurateurs: After the game 
is set up and ready to play, deal 
each player 2 Restaurateur Cards. 
Players pick one and display it 
face up next to their kitchen and 
return the other to the game box. 
Bonus Scoring
Bonus Scoring
At the end of the game, score 
the stars at the top of your 
Restaurateur Card. Clarifications 
on how specific restaurateurs 
work can be found at the end of 
the rulebook.
McDogald’s, a fast-food chain restaurant, has come to Bistro Bay and is 
aiming to steal all your customers! They’ve even nabbed some familiar 
chefs to work behind the counter. You’ll need to grab great ingredients, 
make fantastic meals, and impress the celebrity critic if you want to get 
more stars and come out on top!
Follow the normal Game Setup as if for a 
2-player game. In addition, find the appropriate 
Critic’s Choice Card for the critic you revealed and 
place it beside the critic.
Give McDogald’s the 
amount of stars showing 
next to the critic, then flip 
to the ingredients side.
Restaurateurs (Optional)
Optional)
Use the normal setup for yourself, however you can leave the Location Cards 
and Restaurant Shield in the game box as they will not be needed.
Follow these additional steps for McDogald’s:
	Place the McDogald’s Kitchen Board within easy reach, kitchen side 
face-up. Place 3 Chef Figures and the Critic Plate of an unused player 
color on the McDogald’s Kitchen Board.
	Separately shuffle the Manager, Mouse, Lizard and Boar Decks 
and put them face down in that order within easy reach.
	Place a Chef Hat matching the McDogald’s 
chef color at the front of the priority track.
McDogald’s Boar 
Zous-chef Card area
McDogald’s Lizard 
McDogald’s Mouse 
McDogald’s Manager 
You are the executive chef, 
known for the special touch 
you add to every meal.
Restaurateurs provide each 
player with a special ability 
they may utilize in the game.
Critic’s Choice Card
Card
Rumors go here
Critic Plate 
goes here
Name
Bonus 
Scoring 
icon
Ability

The McDogald’s mouse is sent to the 
location with a 7-value ingredient, which 
both the Garden Top Shop and the 
Desert Vendor offer. The arrow at the 
bottom of the card directs the mouse 
to give preference to locations starting 
at the Chef Academy and proceeding to 
the left, so it runs to the Desert Vendor.
Follow the same steps as in the multiplayer game, with the following differences:
Step 2: Planning
Each round, place your chefs directly on their locations (instead of using Location Cards).
To win, your restaurant needs to earn more stars than McDogald’s. 
While you follow the same steps as in the multiplayer game, 
McDogald’s plays by their own rules.
McDogald’s Placement
McDogald’s Placement
If a card sends a chef to a location that is already occupied by another McDogald’s chef (or McDogald’s-
controlled zous-chef), ignore that location and proceed to the next location that satisfies the conditions 
of the card and does not have a McDogald’s chef.
If there are multiple or no locations that would equally meet the requirements of a card, use the location 
arrow on the bottom of the card to determine which location to use. The arrows indicate the order of 
locations to consider, starting at either the Soup Truck or the Chef Academy and proceeding to the right 
or left, respectively. Then, follow the McDogald’s placement rule. 
Step 3: Running
Send the McDogald’s chefs to their locations as follows:
1 	 Reveal the top card of the Manager Deck and follow its instructions.
2 	 If McDogald’s mouse chef is still in their kitchen, reveal the top card of 
the mouse deck and follow its instructions.
3 	 If McDogald’s lizard chef is still in their kitchen, reveal the top card of 
the lizard deck and follow its instructions.
4 	 If McDogald’s boar chef is still in their kitchen, reveal the top card of 
the boar deck and follow its instructions.
5 	 If McDogald’s has a zous-chef this round and it is still in their kitchen, 
reveal the top card of the deck matching its carrying capacity and 
follow its instructions.
The McDogald’s boar is sent to the location 
with the highest sum of ingredients, the 
Desert Vendor, but that location is already 
occupied by the McDogald’s mouse. 
Instead, the boar runs to the location with 
the next highest sum that is unoccupied by 
a McDogald’s chef, the Garden Top Shop.
Title and 
directions
Carrying 
capacity
Tie-break 
directions
Mouse Deck icon

Resolve each location left to right, as in the multiplayer game. For each 
McDogald’s chef (including any McDogald’s-controlled zous-chefs), consult the 
row of the Critic’s Choice Card relating to the current day (1, 2, or 3). Pick the 
available item that satisfies the condition furthest to the left in that row.
If there is a tie between multiple ingredients, use the list at the bottom of the 
Critic’s Choice Card and pick the tied ingredient that appears furthest to the left.
Ingredients and Spice
Ingredients and Spice
McDogald’s places the highest-valued ingredient of each type on the 
matching ingredient section of its Critic Plate, keeping lower-valued 
ingredients to the side. If an ingredient is collected that’s higher than the 
current ingredient of the same type on the Critic Plate, replace the lower-
valued ingredient with the new one, moving it to the side. Collected spice is 
added to the matching ingredient section if not already spiced.
Allspice
Allspice is kept separate and applied during preparation 
of the critic meal. 
Challenge Ingredient
Challenge ingredients are ingredients visible on Challenge Cards. 
When McDogald’s picks an ingredient or spice (not allspice) that 
matches a challenge ingredient, place a star above the first instance 
of that ingredient on a Challenge Card that doesn’t yet have a star. 
Each ingredient on the card can have at most one star above it, 
but multiple instances of that ingredient can each have stars.
McDogald’s returns all soup and bisque to 
the supply. No soup for you at McDogald’s!
McDogald’s immediately gains stars for each rumor 
they take, depending on which day it is:
Store the rumors on the McDogald’s Kitchen Board, placing wild rumors in 
the leftmost empty space. They cannot take a second rumor of the same type. 
McDogald’s does not interact with the Rumor Cards when picking Rumor Tokens.
Any zous-chefs picked by McDogald’s are used in the next round, 
just as a regular player would. Place the Zous-chef Card and Token 
to the right of the Boar Cards for the next round. Remember to 
trigger their abilities for McDogald’s as applicable.
McDogald’s ignores critic rule changes when selecting items for its critic plate.
The McDogald’s lizard is alone at 
the Desert Vendor on day one and is 
picking their items.
The Critic’s Choice Card directs that on 
day one the first thing the lizard should 
pick is the rumor.
For its second pick, since there are no more 
rumors at this location, the lizard continues to 
the right on the row looking for the next match.
Neither of the ingredients is a requirement for a challenge meal, nor are 
there any zous-chefs, spices or 7-value ingredients available. 
Both the carrot and bread ingredients have a value of 6, so the list at the 
bottom of the card is used to determine that the lizard should pick the 
bread, since it appears earlier. 
Ingredients 
Step 5: End of Round
In addition to the usual steps, discard any drawn Manager, Mouse, Lizard 
and Boar Cards.
Critic Plate Item
When McDogald’s picks an item matching this icon, 
pick the ingredient or spice that most improves the 
quality of McDogald’s critic meal.
None

Final Scoring
Final Scoring
McDogald’s calculates the quality of their critic meal.
McDogald’s does not apply any critic rules to the final scoring; however, any 
Fanatic rumors in play are applied to the relevant courses.
If you have more stars than McDogald’s, congratulations! You have 
defeated the corporation that moved in and tried to lower 
Bistro Bay’s food standards. To celebrate, why not go get a burger?
If not, the town is ruined and it’s all your fault! 
To commiserate, go get a burger. If you can’t beat ‘em...
McDogald’s collects any stars it placed above the Challenge Cards. They do 
not serve meals (happy or otherwise).
Refrigeration
Refrigeration
McDogald’s does not need to discard items due to refrigeration limits. If 
there’s one thing McDogald’s has plenty of, it’s fridge space—there are tater 
tots in there from before you were born.
Preparing the Critic Meal
Preparing the Critic Meal
McDogald’s critic plate should contain the highest-valued ingredient of 
each type from those it picked, along with a matching spice if available. If 
McDogald’s has any allspice, it is applied to the highest-valued unspiced 
ingredient, breaking ties using the list at the bottom of the Critic’s Choice card.
McDogald’s ignores any critic rule changes when preparing the critic meal.
Draw 1 item from the Token Bag. The value of this item (zero if spice, allspice 
or a rumor) is considered to be the value of soup McDogald’s has. Compare 
that value with your value of soup to determine the winner of Most Soup.
McDogald’s also scores a star if it served all 7 courses.
BEst of Each Course
BEst of Each Course
Award stars to McDogald’s if it has the highest quality for a course 
(ties are friendly, as usual).
Henry earns a star for the bread course since the 
Kangaroo flips the value of his bread token from 6 to 9.
For the carrot course, Henry again earns the 
star since his 7-value carrot is higher than 
McDogald’s 6-value carrot, and McDogald’s 
ignores the Kangaroo’s ability.
Stars
None
Bread Fanatic, Carrot Fanatic, Cheese Fanatic, Extremely Pampered, 
Fish Fanatic, Hibernator, Meat Fanatic, Mushroom Fanatic, 
Psychedelic Flavor, Spice Lover, Tender, Wine Fanatic
Big Cheese, Big Dipper, Odd Tastes, Simple Palate, 
Subtle Flavors, Super Chatty, To Go, Wine Cellar
Mercurial, Nocturnal, Picky, Shortsighted, Sommelier, 
Unsophisticated, Varied Leftovers, Varied Servings
McDogald’s gains stars as follows for the 3 rumors, 
whether or not they picked the matching rumor token.
For an easy guide to McDogald’s rumor stars, check 
for dots in the bottom right of each rumor card. 
Each dot is a star.

Clarifications / Credits
Clarifications / Credits
CRITIC
The Capybara
You must serve a challenge to get a bonus star for that 
challenge with this critic.
The Cow
You may spice each of these ingredients.
The Fruit Bat
A paired wine’s value adds to the quality of that course. 
The Jerboa
Remove the Rumor Tokens from your kitchen and use 
them as an allspice. These still count as rumors you know.
The Kangaroo Only ingredients with a printed value of 6 are treated 
as 9’s. For example, a spiced 3 has quality of 6 but is 
not affected further by the Kangaroo. A 6-value token 
becomes a 9, and if spiced, now has a quality of 18.
The Mouse
You may spice each cheese ingredient.
The Rabbit
This critic text may have a stacking effect. For example, 
if a spiced 5-value carrot is served to Rabbit while the 
Carrot Fanatic Rumor is in play, that carrot has a total 
quality of 20. 
The following sections provide clarifications on specific critics, rumors, zous-chefs, and restaurateurs. 
These clarifications do not cover all cards and concepts. 
Communications: Rozie Powell
Customer Service: Judy Neff
Campaign Page: Christian Strain, Peter Vaughan
Playtesting: Aoife Baker, Khadija Brey, Sarah Brown, William Brown III, Jacob Burke, Elli Burns, Maryann Calligan, 
Sean Calligan, Claudio Cellucci, Nathan “Chappy” Chapman, Allison Chase, Christian Ching, Alex Chiolo, 
Áxel Cisneros, Joel Colombo, Curt Covert, John Cutler, Mark Dainty, Anne-Marie De Witt, Justin De Witt, Fox Fox, 
Gavin Fox, Shaun Fox, Jeff Fraser, Adrian Gilstrap, Don Gilstrap, Yuval Grinspun, Lady Gypsum, Hp Hanson, 
Matthew Justice, David Laciak, Sea LinYao, Terence Lui, Greg Machlin, Rich Malena, David Marron, Mark McGee, 
Adam Michaud, Mike Mihealsick, Rohan Mirchandaney, Alena Mokráňová, Chris Montgomery, Iain Murphy, 
Stephanie Noack, Anna Palmer, Emerson Rivera, Joel Salda, Mitch Schroeder, Suzanne Seyfi, Isaac Shalev, 
Zev Shlasinger, Mike Vander Veen, James Vaughan, Mitch Wallace, Ed Wiscombe, Matt Wolfe, Kristin Yadamec
Prototypes: Print and Play, Longpack
Special Thanks: Backerkit, Banzinator, Before You Play, Board Game Co, Board Game Garden, Board Game Tutorials, 
Cardboard Alchemy Discord, Casual Game Revolution, Cozy Board Games, Dani Standring, Daniel Tosco, 
Dice Tower Summer Spectacular, Ezeekat, First Play LA, Game Trayz (Deluxe Edition), Grant Lyon, Hungry Gamer, 
Kickstarter, Kim-Joy, Lucky Duck Games, Mark Streed, Not Bored Gaming, Oniro, Paper Fort Games, Play the Game, 
Rahdo Runs Through, Rich Malena, Tantrum House, The Full 42, Thinker Themer, Tim Chuon
Game Design: Alex Cutler, Peter C. Hayward
Art: Sandara Tang
Development: Christian Strain, Peter Vaughan
Production: Christian Strain, Lauren Ino, 
Peter Vaughan, Brad Brooks
Graphic Design: Christian Strain, Duane Nichols
Additional Graphic Design: Stephanie Gustafsson, 
Stephen Lambert, Sandara Tang
3D Models: Erick Tosco
Tray Design, Storage (deluxE edition): Noah Adelman, 
Game Trayz
Rulebook Editing, Layout: Jason Harris
Additional Rulebook Editing: Brad Brooks, 
Jeff Fraser, Christian Strain, Peter Vaughan 
World-building: Alex Cutler, Sandara Tang
Solo Mode: Peter C. Hayward, Christian Strain
If a special ability lets you gain an item from the Token Bag, and you draw a 
rumor you already know, draw another item and return the rumor to the bag.
General note: If an ability would cause two or more zous-chefs to take or 
be given items at the same time, carrying capacity determines order among 
them. If still the same, priority track order determines order.
ZOUS-CHEF
Carol
If Carol tied this round and moved to the back, 
she will gain a star.
Newton
When playing a solo game, McDogald’s doesn’t take 
the soup Newton provides.
Otto
Otto’s ability rewards each player with a 
2 carrying capacity chef at this location. 
Penny
Penny does not need to be at the 
Soup Truck location to use this ability.
Clarifications continued on back

Clarifications (continued)
©Cardboard Alchemy, Inc. 2024, All Rights Reserved
General note: Rumors never affect challenges, only critic meals.
RUMOR
Bread Fanatic
Carrot Fanatic 
Cheese Fanatic 
Fish Fanatic 
Meat Fanatic 
Mushroom 
Fanatic 
Wine Fanatic
Fanatic rumors only affect final scoring. 
If a critic card allows you to add multiple ingredients 
to a course, these rumors double all of them. 
The total quality of the course (after spice) 
is doubled.
Extremely 
Pampered
At least one individual ingredient in each course 
must have a printed value of 5 or more.
Hibernator
If you did not serve a wine course, consider the 
rightmost course you did serve (i.e. mushroom, 
followed by meat, etc.). 
Hibernator does not take Fanatic Rumors 
into account.
Mercurial
For example, if your highest served ingredient 
has a value of 7, and your lowest is has a 
value of 3, gain 4 stars.
Odd Tastes
When in play with the Kangaroo, 6-value ingredients 
are 9-value ingredients, and are considered odd.
Psychedelic 
Flavor
Psychedelic Flavor does not take Fanatic Rumors 
into account.
Super Chatty
Super Chatty only counts Rumor Tokens, not extra 
Rumor Cards seen for any other reason. 
Rumor Tokens served to the Jerboa still give 
you a star.
Players gain the stars at the top of their Restaurateur 
Card during the bonus score step of the critic meal.
RESTAURATEUR
Anthony Boardain
You may choose to leave early (per Consolation 
Soup, pg. 11) to use this ability.
Goat’N Ramsey
When playing with the Rabbit, 2-value carrot 
ingredients are worth +2 before the critic text 
doubles their value.
Graham Elephant
You may gain multiple bonus 
 in a round 
this way.
Herón Sanchez
You may do this for multiple 
ingredient types and in multiple 
meals. For example, this Tasty 
Tapas Challenge Meal has a 
quality of 23 (7 bread x2, 4 
carrot x2 plus 1 for the soup).
Jamie Owliver
No other player may peek at your additional 
Rumor Card. This Rumor Card does not affect the 
Super Chatty rumor.