Crows 
2 TO 4 PLAYERS / AGES 10+ / 30-45 MINUTES 
Map Tiles 
Barrens: a basic tile that begins with no crows on it. 
Trees with Crows: a tile that begins with 1, 2, or 3 crows on it. When the tile is played, the icon at the top right shows how 
many crows should immediately be drawn from the crow pool and placed on the tile. Crow icons only matter for the initial 
tile placement; after that, they are ignored. 
Gem Cave: gives flocking priority when two or more players’ Mana Totem are the same distance away from some crows 
(see Flocking Crows) 
Mana Ley Line: any crows that flock to a Mana Ley Line tile score double points 
Lava Pool: acts as an obstacle to flocking crows. Any flocking crows will stop in a carrion space if it lies on the path to a 
Mana Totem (see Flocking Crows). When this tile is played, It can replace any empty tile on the board. (If used this way, 
place the replaced tile in any other legal position without spawning any new crows) 
Queen’s Totem: Summons the Queen Crow. The Queen is worth 3 point during scoring. She never flies away during 
murders. She will always prioritize flocking to the nearest Mana Totem on a Gemstone Cave. 
Carrion Paradise: Spawns a Crow each turn 
Nightfall: Signifies the End of the Game when drawn (The game will end at the end of the current round) 
 
 (1, 2 and 3 Crows, Lava Pool) 
 (Gem Cave, Mana Ley Lines, Carrion Paradise) 
 (Nightfall, Queen’s Totem, Barrens) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spells 
Any time you place your Mana Totem on Barrens tile, you draw a spell card 
Spells come in a few different flavors. On your turn, after placing your Mana Totem, you may discard a spell to invoke its 
power. Alternatively, you may hold on to the token and it will give a 2 point bonus at the end of the game. 
 

 
 
Spells Summary: 
Attract: Choose an Empty tile and a direction. All crows in the direction flock as normal to the chosen tile. 
Disperse: Choose an Empty tile. All crows one space diagonally and orthogonally move one square away from 
the chosen tile if possible. 
Drain: Mana Ley Lines will not provide double points this round. 
Landfall: Draw another tile and place another tile on the board. 
Teleport: Choose 2 tiles. The second one must be empty. Move up to 2 Crows from the first tile to the second. 
Populate: Choose an Empty 2 or 3 crow tile and populate the tile with Crows as if it had just been placed. 
 
Game Setup: 
Each player chooses a color and takes the Mana Totem for that color. 
Shuffle all spells and place face down in a deck. 
Set aside the Nightfall tile and then Flip all map tiles face down and shuffle. Place them into one large stack. 
Depending on how many players there are, remove some tiles from the tile deck: 
2 Players: remove 8 random tiles 
3 Players: remove 4 random tiles 
4 Players: don’t remove any tiles 
Select 6 tiles and shuffle the Nightfall tile into them. Then place this stack of 7 tiles on the bottom of the Tile stack. Then 
take 4 tiles from the top of the stack and place them on the bottom of the stack. 
Draw thirteen tiles and arrange them in the starting pattern shown in the diagram below. 
Every player draws one tile and keeps it facedown in front of them in their “hand”. 
Place crow figures on any tiles with crow icons. If a tile has two or three crow icons, place that many. 
Randomly choose a first player and give them the first player token. 
 
 
 
 
Round Order 
The game is played in rounds. During each round: 
1) Players take turns, beginning with the starting player for that round and proceeding clockwise. 
2) After all players have had a turn, crows flock and then players score points. 
Starting Tile 
Arrangement 

 
3) Players take back their Mana Totems to use again on the next round. Then begin the next round. 
On Your Turn 
1) Draw a tile, adding it to your hand, then choose one tile and add it to the gameboard. 
2) Place your Mana Totem onto an empty tile that is in play. If you played on a barrens tile, immediately draw one spell 
3) Optional: play one spell. 
1) Choose a tile and add it to the gameboard 
Place it on the playing surface according to the following restrictions: 
The new tile must connect along at least one edge with any other tile already placed. 
You may not play a tile on top of another tile. 
 
 
 
Placing a Tile: Valid Locations 
 
 Placing a Tile: Invalid Location 
Tiles with Crow Icons 
If the newly drawn tile has any crow icons on it, then you immediately place that many crow figures on the tile. 
Other Tiles 
Place in accordance to the rules explained above on the first page. 
Lava Pool Tiles 
If you draw a Lava Pool, then special rules apply—they are a valuable tile! 
1. If you wish, you may replace a tile already on the gameboard with the newly drawn Lava Pool. You may not replace any 
tiles that have crow figures (actual crows, not crow icons) or Mana Totems on them. 
2. You may now play the tile that you replaced as normal and then place your Mana Totem per normal rules (see below). 
However, do not place any new crows on the tile even if it has crow icons. 
2) Place your Mana Totem 
Now place your Mana Totem on a tile on the board. You may place it on any tile except: 
 
 
 
c) …a Lava Pool 
d) …a tile with another player’s Mana Totem 
a) … any tile that currently has any crow tokens on it. 
(Crow icons don’t matter—only tokens.) 
b) On a tile with a Mana Corruption token. 

 
 
 
Draw Spell: If you played your Mana Totem on a Barrens tile, now Draw a Spell. 
3) Optional: Play One Spell 
If you have any spells and wish to play one, you may do so at the end of your turn. 
Continue Taking Turns 
Play continues around the table until each player has taken a turn. At this point, crows flock. 
Crows Flock 
After all players have had a turn, crows flock to Mana Totems. Crows flock according to these rules: 
a) Crows will flock to the nearest Mana Totem in 
the same row or column. (No diagonals.) 
b) Crows can move any number of spaces while 
flocking 
c) Crows will not flock over gaps between tiles. 
d) If a crow encounters a Lava Pool while flocking, 
it must stop there for the round. However, if a 
crow begins the round on a Lava Pool, it can fly 
off of it. 
e) If two or more Mana Totems are at the same 
distance to the flocking crows, then 
the crows will favor Mana Totem is on 
an Gem Cave tile. 
 If no players’ Mana Totem are on a 
Gem Cave tile, then the crows will 
divide evenly between the totems. If 
there are an uneven number of crows, 
then all odd crows will remain 
stationary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rule b) A crow can fly any distance. 
 
Blue has just played the tile on the far left. The only 
valid placements are on that tile or on the middle tile. 
The other tiles are invalid because of rules a, b, and c. 
Rule a) Crows flock in rows and columns only, 
each to the nearest mana totem. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Score Points for Flocks 
After crows are finished flocking, players score points: 
Each crow on the same tile as the player’s Mana Totem is worth 1 point 
The Queen crow is worth 3 points 
If the tile is a Mana Ley Line, then double the points from this flock 
Crows stay on the board after scoring. Crows are never removed unless there was a Murder(see below). 
Record points by gaining mana coins. 
 
Rule e Example 2) The extra crow doesn’t move. 
 
Rule e Example 3) All three players are equidistant from the 
five crows. Each player gets one and two crows are left over. 
 
Rule e Example 1) Each player gets a crow because 
there is an evenly divisible amount. 
Rule c) Crows cannot fly over gaps. 
Rule d) The first crow flies into 
the carrion and must stop for 
the round. 
The second crow started the 
round on the Gem Cave, so he 
may move off. 
Rule e Example 4) All three players are equidistant, except RED is 
on a gem cave tile. Red gets all the crows! 
 

 
Murders 
If 6 or more crows have flocked to a single tile, it’s considered a Murder and special rules apply: 
1. Score the crows normally. Then, 
2. Remove any Mana Corruption Tiles on the Board from previous rounds (Any created this round stay in play) 
3. Two crows become a mated pair and fly off of the gameboard. Discard them from play. 
4. The remainder must be scattered. 
Scatter according to these rules: 
a) The scatter pattern is as shown in the figure below (a clockwise spiral). 
b) The player who is scattering the Murder may choose which direction to start the spiral at. 
c) Move one crow from the Murder tile to each successive tile in the pattern. If a tile does not exist on the 
gameboard, skip to the next tile indicated in the pattern. 
d) Continue scattering until only all crows are scattered. Then place the Mana Corruption token on the original 
square. 
 < ------ The Mana Corruption Tile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Murder Scattering Pattern 
(Note: the player may choose which adjacent tile from the Murder 
tile—North, South, East, or West—acts as dispersal tile #1.) 
The pattern is just an outward expanding spiral. 
(1) Seven crows begin on 
the Murder tile. 
 
(3) The crows scatter in the pattern 
until there is none left on the original 
flock tile. Then place a Mana 
Corruption token on the original tile. 
EXAMPLE: Scattering a Murder 
 
(2) Two fly off as a mated pair. 

 
 
Take Back Mana Totems and Begin the Next Round 
After scoring and scattering, each player takes back their Mana Totem and the next round begins. Before the end of the 
round, place a new Crow on each Carrion Paradise. The player to the left of the previous starting player takes the Starting 
Player token and begins the round. 
Game End 
When the Nightfall tile is drawn, (the player draws a new tile to replace Nightfall) finish the current round as normal, score 
that round and then the game is over. All players will have had an equal number of turns. 
All players now reveal any unused Spells and gain 2 points for each one. The winner is the player with the most points!