Deep in a quadrant of space believed to be empty, a virgin, unexplored planet 
has been discovered by three unique, powerful species. The resources of the 
planet are abundant beyond belief, but are protected vigorously by the indigenous 
species, known as the Trogs. The riches of the planet will be won, inch by inch, 
with blood.
GOAL OF THE GAME
GOAL OF THE GAME
The game is won by the player with the most Victory Points at the end of the game. 
The primary way to score Victory Points is by controlling Regions with Crystals during 
Rounds in which Scoring is enabled. Victory Points are also scored for controlling territories, 
capturing Prisoners, killing enemy Units and using certain Tactics or Skills. 
Cry Havoc is an asymmetric, card-driven area control game for 
2-4 players. Each player controls one of the four unique races 
and fights viciously to gather the most Crystals on the planet, 
which will more than offset the costs of the conflict. To do this, 
players must customize their decks of cards, Build powerful 
Structures, and leverage their unique Skills to gain victory. 
The indigenous Trogs play a special role in Cry Havoc. In 2- and 
3-player games, the Trogs are not controlled by a player, but they 
act as a deterrent to the invaders’ aggression. The beginning of the 
rules contains the explanation of how the Trogs act against the 
invading races during 2-3 player games. The rules for playing the 
Trogs in a 4-player game are described at the end of the rulebook. 

Game board
The planet you are fighting on.
32 Terrain Tactics cards 
8 cards for each Terrain type: Mountain, Desert, Jungle, Ocean.
6 Event tokens
Random events that 
occur during the game.
12 Exploration tokens
Beneficial items to find 
on the planet.
18 Trog War Party tokens
Native forces confronting 
player invaders.
12 Trog Nest tokens
Additional Trog forces.
Crystals: min. 30 green, 
min. 14 yellow, min. 6 red
The planet’s treasure. Green - value of 1, 
yellow - value of 3, red - value of 5.
8 Battle tokens
To mark the Battle Regions and 
the order of Battles to resolve.
1 Action marker
Indicates the current Action.
Battle board
To resolve Battles.
HUMAN ARMY
HUMAN ARMY
8 Human 
9 Structure tokens 
3 Artillery tokens and 
3 Watchtower tokens
1 Final Scoring 
Enabled marker
2 Skill tokens

PILGRIM ARMY
PILGRIM ARMY
TROG ARMY
TROG ARMY
MACHINE ARMY
MACHINE ARMY
16 Unit miniatures
8 Pilgrim 
8 Machine 
8 Trog 
5 Structure tiles
9 Structure tokens 
15 Structure tokens 
13 Structure tokens 
(7 Tunnel tokens and 
3 for the other two 
Structures)
1 Skill token 
2 Skill tokens
1 Skill token

c.c.
f.f.
1. Place the Game board in the middle of the table. 
Note: For a 2-player game the side marked for 2-players should be used in the setup.
2. Shuffle the Event tokens and place one face down on each of the four Event Spots on 
the Score track. Return any unused Event tokens to the box without looking at them. 
3. Separate the Terrain Tactics cards by Terrain type into four piles, then shuffle each pile 
individually. Place each pile face down on the indicated space on the board. 
4. Each player chooses one Faction to play. Take the Headquarters token from every non-
Trog player and place them randomly in the starting Regions labeled “HQ”. Place 4 Unit 
miniatures and 1 Control token matching the corresponding HQ token in the same space 
as the HQ token. 
Note: The Trogs are only controlled by a player in games with four players (see “4-player 
game” section below). 
5. Each player takes all of their Faction components. 
a. Players place their Faction board in front of them face up.
b. Players place their Structure tiles face up, next to their Faction boards. 
Place all Structure tokens next to their associated Structure tiles.
c. Every player starts with 1-3 of their Skill cards and places the cards face up in front of 
them. Any unused Skill cards are returned to the box.
First Time Players: Players ONLY use their Skill labeled Default.
Experienced Players: Players use the Skill labeled Default and one Skill at random.
Veteran Players: Players use the Skill labeled Default and two Skills at random.
d. Players shuffle their Tactics cards and place the cards as a face down deck in front of them.
e. Players place all remaining Unit miniatures in front of them to form their Reserve.
f. Players place their Scoring Enabled markers and Control tokens in front of them.
Note: Place any components from unused Factions back in the box. 
6. Each player places their Score token on the 0 space of the Score track.
7. Take one Initiative token from every player, then place one per space randomly on the 
Initiative Track to determine the initial player order. 
Place the second set of Initiative tokens for each player on the Upcoming Initiative Track 
in the same order as the Initiative Track. 
8. Place Trog War Party and Exploration tokens face down in the Regions with the 
matching icons on the board. Set any additional tokens near the board to form a supply.
9. Place Crystals in each Region as shown by the symbols in the Regions of the board. 
Place the rest of the Crystals near the board to form a supply.
10. Place the Battle tokens and the Battle board near the Game board.
11. Place the Action Marker in the “I” position on the Round Actions on the board.
You are ready to begin!
4-PLAYER GAME
In a 4-player game, one player takes the Trog Units (see page 13) and uses the Trog 
components (Faction board, Structures, Skills, etc.). 
12. Place the Trog Headquarters on the space marked “Trog HQ” with two Units. 
13. Place 4 Tunnels tokens on the board, one per each Region with the matching icons on 
the board, and one on Trog HQ.
DESERT 
TERRAIN CARD
DESERT 
TERRAIN CARD
MOUNTAIN
MOUNTAIN
OCEAN
OCEAN

c.c.
f.f.
The board shows the setup for a 4-player game.
All of the faction components a player needs to have 
in front of him are depicted with the Human faction (left) 
and with the Machines faction (right).
2: 
2: 
EVENT 
TOKENS
EVENT 
TOKENS
JUNGLE 
JUNGLE 
DS
DS

grf
B. UPDATE INITIATIVE 
B. UPDATE INITIATIVE 
C. REFRESH 
C. REFRESH 
Example: The current initiative order is: 
1st Machines, 2nd Pilgrims, 3rd Humans, 
4th Trogs
The Trog player plays the Scouts card that lets 
them change their Initiative. They place their 
Upcoming Initiative token in the 2nd Initiative 
place. The Machines do not move, but the 
Pilgrims and Humans are moved right. The 
Upcoming Initiative resembles the following:
1st Machines, 2nd Trogs, 3rd Pilgrims, 
4th Humans 
exhausted
ready
Cry Havoc is played in 5 or fewer Rounds, with each Round 
being divided into 6 Phases which are completed in order. 
The phases are listed and explained below.
6. SCORING (IF ENABLED)
THE EVENTS PHASE CONSISTS OF 3 STEPS: 
B. UPDATE INITIATIVE: This is skipped in the first Round.
C. REFRESH EXHAUSTED SKILLS: This is skipped in the first Round.
All players have a Tactics card that allows them to change their 
Initiative to any place (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th)  when the card is played. 
When this happens, players place their Upcoming Initiative token on 
the position of the Upcoming Initiative Track that indicates their new 
desired position. Players with their Initiative tokens placed left to the 
moved Initiative token do not change position. Other players’ Initiative 
tokens are pushed right to make space for the changed token.
Reveal the next stack of unrevealed Event token(s) and immediately 
resolve them, one at a time, from top to bottom. 
Note that on the first turn of the game this stack will just consist of the Event on 
the first Event Spot on the Score track. However, if a player’s Score token passes 
any unresolved Event tokens on the track, the passed Event tokens are immediately 
stacked on top of the next unresolved Event token on the track.
In this way it is possible on later turns that there will be more than one Event token on 
the same spot. 
Change the order of the tokens on the Initiative Track so that the order matches that 
of the Upcoming Initiative Track. The Upcoming Initiative Track can be changed during 
the Action phase when certain cards are played. 
Turn all of your exhausted Skills 90 degrees clockwise 
to indicate they are ready for use. Skills will be fully 
explained on page 9. 
EXHAUSTED SKILLS 
EXHAUSTED SKILLS 

MOVE ACTION 
MOVE ACTION 
Example: The Human 
player discards two 
cards showing a total 
of four Movement 
Points. They may 
Move one Unit four 
times, four Units 
one time, or any 
combination of this. 
CARD ANATOMY
AT THE END OF THE MOVE ACTION, 
FOLLOW THESE STEPS IN ORDER:
1. Reveal and resolve any Exploration tokens in Regions with your Units. 
Exploration tokens provide bonuses to the player who reveals them. 
2. For each Region you Moved into with a Trog War Party/Nest token, 
reveal and resolve that token. If no Trog Units were placed in the Region 
as a direct result of the effect of the token (when there is no Trog Unit 
in the Reserve), you must immediately lose one Unit in that Region.
3. If your Units are present in a Region with no Units belonging to other 
players, immediately gain Control of the Region by placing one of your 
Control tokens in the Region. 
4. Any Regions with enemy Units present receive Battle tokens. Place the 
lowest numbered Battle tokens that are not already on the board. These 
are now considered Battle Regions. If placing multiple Battle tokens, you 
can choose the order.
Check the Move examples on the next page.
Every player draws four cards from their personal 
Tactics deck. Then, any players with more than seven 
cards in their hand must place cards in their discard 
pile until they have seven in their hand. 
Note: If you need to draw cards and your deck is empty, 
shuffle your discard pile to form a new deck.
Important: 
When discarding cards 
for the Movement, 
Recruit, or Build 
Actions, ignore any 
Tactic Text on them! 
Some cards provide 
additional bonuses 
(Example: Draw 1 Card) 
when discarding them 
for Movement, Recruit, 
or Build Actions. Look 
for the 
.
- Draw 1 card from 
your deck for each 
symbol 
- Draw 1 card from 
your deck regardless of 
the number of symbols.
- Gain 1 VP.
This is the primary phase of every Round. Place the 
Action marker in the first position of the Action track. 
Beginning with the first player on the Initiative track, 
players take a single Action. Play then proceeds in the 
order of the Initiative Track. After every player has 
taken one Action, move the Action marker to the next 
space and repeat this until every player has taken 
a total of three Actions.
THE ACTIONS AVAILABLE 
TO EVERY PLAYER:
MOVE
RECRUIT
BUILD STRUCTURE(S) AND/OR ACTIVATE STRUCTURE(S)
DRAW TWO TACTICS CARDS, KEEP ONE
ENABLE SCORING
Discard any number of cards from your hand and gain 
Movement points equal to the number of Movement 
icons on the discarded cards. Each Movement point 
allows you to Move one of your Units from any Region to 
an adjacent Region. You can Move more than one Unit, 
and each Unit can be Moved multiple times.
Important: 
Players can never Move Units into an enemy’s 
Headquarters Region or any Battle Region.
If your Unit enters a Region with an opponent’s Units, a Trog War Party token or a Trog Nest 
token, the Unit must stop moving and cannot Move again this turn. However, additional 
Units may be moved into this Region during the current Move Action! The Movement 
Action ends when all Movement points are expended, or a player chooses to spend no 
further Movement points. 
Name of card 
Tactic or 
special bonus
Movement Points 
Recruitment Points 
Build Points 
 
Faction or 
Terrain symbol

Move Example: The Pilgrims discard four cards showing five 
Movement Points. They spend two points to Move two of 
their Units into the Foglands Region with one Human Unit. 
They spend two points to Move 2 into the Feralas Banks 
Region with a Trog War Party token. They spend the last 
point to Move one Unit to Sapos Deep Region with an 
Exploration token in it. 
The Exploration token is resolved. Then, the Trog War Party 
token is resolved. Then, a Battle token is placed in the Region. 
Then, a Battle token is placed in the second Region.
Move Example: The Pilgrims discard a card showing two 
Movement Points. They spend two points to Move two Units 
into the Scorch Region. 
Because there are neither enemy Units nor Trog War Party/Nest 
tokens, the Pilgrims place their Control token in the Region.
IMPORTANT BATTLE REGION RULES
A Region with a Battle token is known as a Battle Region.
No further Units from any player may enter any Region 
with a Battle token.
Place one of the Attacker’s Units on top of the Battle token to 
remember who the Attacker is.
Structures cannot be Built in a Battle Region.
Structures cannot be activated in a Battle Region unless explicitly 
noted.
The defending player may use a Movement Action on their turn to 
leave a Battle Region. However, they may only Move Units out of 
the Region in excess of twice the number of Units belonging to the 
Attacker.
Example: The Pilgrim player Moves 3 Units into a Region with 8 Human Units. 
A Battle token is placed in the Region. No other Units may be Moved into this 
Region. On the Humans’ turn, they may Move up to 2 Units out of the Region 
(as 3 Pilgrim Units ‘block’ 6 Human Units). 
RECRUIT ACTION 
RECRUIT ACTION 
Note: Regions in the outer ring 
of the planet that are opposite 
each other are considered 
adjacent for any reason. 
These Regions are marked 
with an arrow to remind you. 
Example: Sapos Deep Region is adjacent to Cameron Seas Region on the 
other side of the board.
Discard any number of cards from your hand and gain Recruitment 
points equal to the number of Recruitment icons on the discarded cards. 
Spend each Recruitment point to add one Unit from your Reserve to your 
Headquarters Region. If your Reserve is empty, you cannot add further 
Units using Recruitment.
Example: The Pilgrim player discards 3 cards with a total of 5 Recruitment 
points. They may add up to 5 Units to their Headquarters Region.

Building example: The Pilgrim player discards 2 cards 
with a total of 5 Building points. They Build the Harvester 
and the Power Orb Structures and place their tokens in 
chosen controlled Regions, spending 4 Building points to 
do that (2 points per Structure). The last Building point 
may be spent to Activate one of the Structures.
BUILD STRUCTURE(S) AND/OR 
BUILD STRUCTURE(S) AND/OR 
DRAW TWO TACTICS CARDS, 
DRAW TWO TACTICS CARDS, 
ENABLE SCORING ACTION 
ENABLE SCORING ACTION 
USING SKILLS: 
During your turn, you can use any number of your 
Skills that have not yet been exhausted. Using a Skill 
does not count as an Action and each Skill can only 
be used once per Round, unless explicitly stated 
by the Skill. Once a Skill is used, turn it 90 degrees 
counterclockwise to indicate it has been used. 
Exhausted Skills are refreshed at the beginning of each 
Round. Skills can only be used during the Actions phase 
unless otherwise indicated by the Skill. Skills must be 
used before or after an Action, but never during. 
STRUCTURE RULES
Structures cannot be Built in a Region with a Battle 
token.
Structures cannot be Built in a Headquarters Region.
Multiple Structures of the same type cannot be Built 
in a single Region.
Structures in a Battle Region cannot be Activated, 
unless explicitly stated by a card.
If a player loses Control of a Region with their 
Structure, the Structure remains, but the owning 
player cannot Activate it (unless a card indicates 
otherwise), until they regain Control of the Region.
Discard any number of cards from your hand and gain 
Building points equal to the number of Building icons 
on the discarded cards. Then, spend each Building point 
to place Structures in Regions you controlled at the 
beginning of this Action and/or Activate Structures that 
are already Built, including ones Built this turn! Each 
Structure tile depicts the number of Building points 
required to Build and Activate it. You can Build and 
activate any number of Structures with a single Action as 
long as you have sufficient Building points to pay for it. 
A Building can only be Activated once per Action, but can 
be Activated multiple times in a single Round if you take 
the Build Action again. 
ACTIVATE STRUCTURE(S) ACTION 
ACTIVATE STRUCTURE(S) ACTION 
KEEP ONE 
KEEP ONE 
Draw the top two cards from your deck or from any 
Terrain Tactic deck. Choose one of them to reshuffle, 
and add the other to your hand. 
Each player has a single card in their deck that, when 
played, allows them to take the Enable Scoring Action. 
When the Enable Scoring Action is taken, the card cannot 
be used for the Movement, Recruit, or Build Actions. 
When you Enable Scoring, place your Enable Scoring 
token on the Scoring Enabled space on the board as 
a reminder of who Enabled Scoring. 
Scoring can only be enabled once per Round! 
At the end of the Round, the player who Enabled 
Scoring will score 1VP for every Region they Control. 
Then, all players will score 1VP for each Crystal in every 
Region they Control. 

PASS
PASS
BATTLE RESOLUTION FOLLOWS 
THESE STEPS IN ORDER:
A. ADD ONE CRYSTAL TO THE BATTLE REGION
B. PLACE THE BATTLING UNITS ON BATTLE OBJECTIVES
E. PLACE THE SURVIVING UNITS BACK IN THE REGION 
(When winning the Region Control)
(When losing the Region Control)
A. ADD ONE CRYSTAL 
A. ADD ONE CRYSTAL 
B. PLACE THE BATTLING UNITS 
B. PLACE THE BATTLING UNITS 
Note: When battling the Trogs in games 
with 2 or 3 players, the first player to 
the left of the player fighting against the 
Trogs controls the Trogs in the Battle. 
This includes placing Trog Units on 
Battle Objectives and playing Tactics 
cards from their hand. Trogs never score 
Victory Points and cannot win the game. 
A Battle takes place for each Region with a Battle 
token. Resolve Battles from the lowest numbered 
Battle token to the highest. If for any reason during 
the Action phase, all Units from one player in a Region 
with a Battle token are eliminated prior to Battle 
Resolution, a Battle does not take place. Immediately 
remove the Battle token and place a Control token for 
the player with Units remaining.
TO THE BATTLE REGION
TO THE BATTLE REGION
Increase the value of the Crystals in the Battle Region 
by one.
ON BATTLE OBJECTIVES
ON BATTLE OBJECTIVES
There are three Battle Objective on the Battle board over 
which players compete in every Battle. 
Firstly, the attacking player places all of their Units from 
the Region in any or all of the Battle Objective spaces in 
any distribution.
Secondly, the defending player places all of their Units 
from the Region in any or all of the Battle Objective 
spaces in any distribution.
The Pilgrim player is the Attacker and places their Units 
first. They place 3 Units in the Region Control Objective and 
1 Unit on the Capture Prisoners Objective. The defending 
Human player then places 3 Units on the Attrition Objective.
Players involved in the Battle alternate playing Tactics cards.
Firstly, the Attacker may play and resolve a single Tactics card from their hand, then discard 
it. Secondly, the Defender may play and resolve a single Tactics card from their hand, then 
discard it. 
Players repeat this step until neither player wishes to play, or cannot play, additional Tactics 
cards. Once a player declines to play Tactics cards, they can no longer play Tactics cards in 
the current Battle. There is no limit to the number of Tactics cards that can be played. 
Important: The faction Tactics cards in a player’s deck can be played in any Battle. However, 
Terrain Tactics can only be played if the Terrain of the Battle Region matches that of the 
Terrain Tactics card. The outer Regions do not have a Terrain Type, which means Terrain 
Tactics cannot be played in Battles there. For example Mountain Tactics card can only be 
played in a Battle in a Region with a Mountain. 
Example: The Pilgrim player plays Deploy 
Holos card (1) and moves one Unit from the 
Region Control Objective to the Attrition 
Objective. In response, The Human player plays 
Air Support (2) and adds one Unit from his 
Reserve into the Prisoner Objective. The Pilgrim 
player passes (3). The Human player plays the 
Outflank card (4) and moves two Units from 
the Attrition Objective into the Region Control 
Objective.

E. PLACE THE SURVIVING UNITS 
E. PLACE THE SURVIVING UNITS 
Resolve the Battle Objectives from top to bottom:
1. REGION CONTROL
2. CAPTURE PRISONERS
3. ATTRITION 
REGION CONTROL: 
The player with the most Units in this Objective gains 
Control of the Region and immediately scores 
2 Victory Points. The Region Control remains with that 
player even if all of their Units are eliminated during the 
subsequent Objectives. If there are equal numbers of 
Units from both players in the Region, the Defender wins. 
Note: If neither player places Units in the Region Control 
Objective, the defending player wins the Objective.
Example: In the Battle on the previous page, Humans 
win the Region Control Objective as they are the 
Defenders and they are tied.
CAPTURE PRISONERS: 
The player with the most Units present in this 
Objective immediately takes one enemy Unit involved 
in the Battle (from any Objective, even from Attrition) 
and places it in front of them. This captured Unit 
cannot be Recruited by its owner as it is not a part of 
their Reserve. To get the Prisoners back, see Prisoners 
on page 12.
In case of a tie, neither player captures a Prisoner.
Example: In this Battle, neither player gets a Prisoner, 
because there is a tie in the Objective.
ATTRITION: 
Each player kills one enemy Unit in the Region (from 
the Region Control, Capture Prisoners, or Attrition 
Objectives) for each of their own Units placed on this 
Objective. Players resolve Attrition simultaneously 
as it does not affect the resolution of the Battle. Each 
player Scores 1 Victory Point per enemy Unit killed. 
Killed Units go back to their owner’s Reserve.
Example: After killing 1 Units from each side, each 
Player returns to the main board with 3 Units.
Note: In some cases, a third player may use a Skill or 
Structure to affect a Battle in which they are not the 
Attacker or Defender. If a player who is not the Attacker 
or Defender participates in the Attrition Objective, their 
Units or tokens are always resolved last.
BACK TO THE REGION 
BACK TO THE REGION 
(WHEN WINNING THE REGION CONTROL OBJECTIVE)
The surviving Units of the player who won the Region 
Control Objective are returned from the Objectives to 
the Region. 
Example: The Human player won the Region Control 
Objective and places their own Units in the Region.
(WHEN LOSING THE REGION CONTROL OBJECTIVE) 
The surviving Units of the player who lost the Region 
Control Objective must move to an adjacent non-
Battle Region under the retreating player’s Control. 
If there are no such Regions, the Units are returned to 
their owner’s Reserve. 
Example: The Pilgrim player has to retreat and moves 
their own Units into the adjacent Feralas Banks Region, 
which Pilgrims control.
The Battle is resolved now, so the Battle token is not 
needed anymore.
Repeat these steps until every Battle is resolved. 
Trog exception: In a 2-3 player game, if 
the Trogs win the Region Control Objective, 
do not place a Control token, but place 
a Trog Nest token face down instead. 
Also, if Trog Units must retreat, remove the Units from 
the board and place a Trog Nest token face down in any 
adjacent uncontrolled Region. Trog Nest tokens add 
more Trog Units to the Region when revealed! 

KEY TERMS
KEY TERMS
6. SCORING 
6. SCORING 
END OF THE GAME
END OF THE GAME
First, players Score 1VP for every Prisoner they have. 
Then, in Initiative order, each player may lose 2 Victory 
Points per Prisoner they want to return to their Reserve 
that is currently being held by another player. Each 
player may do this as many times as they wish until all of 
their Prisoners are reclaimed. You cannot return a Prisoner 
if you do not have enough VP to pay for their return.
Example: The Pilgrim player wishes to return 1 Pilgrim 
Prisoner held by the Humans and 1 of the 2 Pilgrim 
Prisoners held by the Machines. They lose 4 Victory 
Points and add the two Prisoners to their Reserve. One 
Prisoner remains with the Machines.
If a player chooses not to regain a Prisoner on the same 
Round that it is captured, they may choose to do so in 
this phase of a future Round, paying the normal 
2 Victory Points. 
(If Enabled): 
If Scoring was Enabled, the player who Enabled Scoring 
scores 1VP for every Region they Control. Then, every 
player scores 1 VP for every Crystal located in all of 
the Regions under their Control. 
This is the end of the Round. If the game is not over, 
begin a new Round.
Example: The Pilgrim player Enabled Scoring in a game 
with the Machines. The Pilgrims control 4 Regions, so 
they score 4VP. Then, both players Score their Crystals. 
The Pilgrims have 8 Crystals total in their Regions, so 
they score 8VP. The Machines have 5 Crystals total in 
their three Regions, so they score 5VP.
During Scoring, if a player’s Score token passes an 
unresolved Event token on the track, the passed Event 
token is immediately stacked on top of the next Event 
token on the track.
If a Player has more than 49 VP, use their 
Faction 50+ Score token to track their score.
The game ends at the end of the Round in which the Enable Final 
Scoring event was resolved.
Kill: Units that are Killed are placed in their owner’s 
Reserve.
Reserve: A player’s supply of Units available for the 
Recruitment action. The Reserve is limited! If a player’s 
Reserve is empty because all of their Units are 
Prisoners or on the board, they cannot Recruit.
Crystal: Markers added to the board for various 
reasons that contribute 1 VP each (or half VP Rounded 
up for Trogs)  to the owner of the Region when Scoring 
is Enabled.
Region: One distinct space on the board. 
Adjacent: The Region that shares a border with 
a Region next to it. 
The outer Regions with arrows are considered 
adjacent to the Regions on the opposite side 
of the board. 
Regions with Tunnels are considered adjacent for 
Trog units. 
Occupied: A Region is considered occupied if there are 
Unit tokens in the Region. 
Regions with only Trog Nest or Trog War Party 
tokens are not considered occupied.
Regions with only Structures are not considered 
occupied. 
Regions with only a Control token are not 
considered occupied. 
Control: A Region is considered controlled by the 
player who has a Control token there. 
Hand: The cards held in a player’s hand. 
If, during the game, no player’s Score token passes 
an unresolved Event, then the game will last 5 
Rounds. However, if an unresolved Event token is 
passed during Scoring, the game will end sooner.
Scoring is always Enabled in the final Round and cannot be 
Enabled by players. Mark this using the Final Scoring marker. 
Players will score VP for Crystals, but nobody will score VP for 
Region Control.
The player with the most Victory Points is the winner! In the case 
of a tie, the player with the most Prisoners wins. If still tied, 
the player who went later in Initiative order wins.  

Trogs are only controlled by a player in four player 
games. Use the following rules when incorporating 
the Trogs.
During Setup: The fourth player controls the Trogs. Place 
the Trog Headquarters and 2 Units in the World Caverns 
Region. Do not place a Trog War Party token in the Region. 
Determine initial Initiative randomly as usual.
MOVEMENT: 
If a Trog Unit enters a Region with a Trog War Party/
Nest token, immediately reveal the token and place 
all Crystals and Trog Units as usual. These Units 
are available to the Trog player for use, even during 
the current Movement Action if there are remaining 
Movement Points. 
Trogs may Move between Regions with Tunnels 
(both pre-built on the map and Build with the Tunnels 
Structure) as if they were adjacent. 
BATTLES: 
If the Region Control Objective is lost, the Trog player 
retreats Units like other players. If this is not possible, 
they are returned to the Reserve instead of placing 
a Trog Nest token. 
SCORING: 
During the Scoring phase, Trogs only score half the 
total points for Crystals located in Regions under their 
Control, Rounded up. 
Trogs score Victory Points the same as other players 
for Battle Objectives, captured Prisoners, and so forth. 
Example: If a Trog player controls seven Crystals 
between three Regions, they Score four Victory Points.
CLARIFICATIONS
CLARIFICATIONS
PLAYING THE TROGS
PLAYING THE TROGS
Golden Rule: If the text of any card (Tactic, Building, or Skill), Event token, or 
Exploration token contradicts the rule book, the card or token takes priority. 
Players can choose any of the four Terrains when using the Draw two, keep one 
card Action. Players do not need to be in control of a Region of the Terrain type.
Trogs Round up, when calculating VP for scoring Crystals. 
A player can play a card even if they cannot apply its effect. 
If Trogs capture a Prisoner in a two or three player game, the Unit is set aside and 
is not available for Recruitment. The player who owns the Unit must lose 2 VP to 
return it to their Reserve. However, no player Scores during the Prisoners phase 
for Prisoners held by the Trogs. 
If the Trogs win the Region Control Battle Objective in a two or three player game, 
no Control token is placed in the Region and no points are awarded for winning the 
Region Control Objective. Instead, place a Trog Nest token.
When revealing the Trog War Party/Nest token, if there are not enough Trog Unit 
miniatures, place as many as there are available and the full number of Crystals. 
If there are no Trogs at all, place all Crystals and no Battle is declared. The player 
moving into the Region must return one Unit to their Reserve.
A player may choose to continue Movement through Regions with no enemy Units 
and no Trog War Party/Nest tokens if they desire, even if the Region is under an 
opponent’s Control. Players do not take Control of Regions or resolve Exploration 
tokens in Regions their Units do not end their Movement phase in. 
You can never place Crystals or Build Structures in a Headquarters Region!
Playtesters: Peter Ingebretson, Kevin Gibson, 
Dave Miotke, Matt Yang, Megan Ginter, FEPH 
and Protospiel Playtesters, Antonio Romeo, 
Isaac Epp, Szymon Przybylak, Jacek Bugajny, 
Joanna Kijanka, Yiannis Strigkos, Marcin 
Ropka, Marek Spychalski, Grzegorz Polewka. 
Special thanks to: Phil, Jeff, Jon, Piotr, Matt, 
Chevee and Tony. 
Thank you to Beth and Peaches for love 
and support - Grant.
GAME DESIGN: Grant Rodiek, Michał Oracz, Michał Walczak
ARTWORK: Thibault Girard (cover art), Fernando Olmedo, Tomasz 
Larek, Grzegorz Bobrowski, Arturas Jelesinas, Yerbol “Eskrey” 
Bulentayev, Wadim Kashin, Florent Llamas, Huy Tran Viet, Dmitry 
Vishnevsky, Nikos Lefas, Mateusz Bielski, Fiodor Ananiev, Roman 
Polyakov, Łukasz Poduch, Aleksander Tutaj.
GRAPHIC DESIGN: Rafał Szyma
RULEBOOK: Grant Rodiek, Paul Grogan
Dear Customer, our games are assembled with the greatest care. 
However, if your copy lacks anything we apologize for it. 
Please, let us know: portal@portalgames.pl
© 2016 PORTAL GAMES Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Św. Urbana 15, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland 
portalgames.pl, portal@portalgames.pl
Cry Havoc & Portal Games (publisher). 
All rights reserved. Reproduction of any 
part of this work by any means without 
the written permission of the publisher is 
expressly forbidden.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT 
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT 
FAQ AVAILABLE IN THE CRY HAVOC 
FAQ AVAILABLE IN THE CRY HAVOC 
THE RULES, PLEASE CHECK THE 
THE RULES, PLEASE CHECK THE 
SECTION ON OUR WEBSITE:
SECTION ON OUR WEBSITE:
HTTP://PORTALGAMES.PL
HTTP://PORTALGAMES.PL

There are four different factions in Cry Havoc, each with 
unique abilities and methods of attaining victory. 
TROGS: 
TROGS: 
HUMANS: 
HUMANS: 
The Trogs are the brutal, primitive, tribal species 
indigenous to the planet. They lack advanced technology, 
which they make up for with intimate knowledge of the 
planet and brute force. A successful Trog player must 
carefully manage their Reserves. Trogs can use their 
Skills to remove Units from Regions in order to place, 
move, and resolve Trog Nest tokens. In doing so, Trogs 
are able to ambush the invading species at the time and 
place of their choosing, which makes up for their lack of 
powerful Structures.
The Humans are a resourceful and flexible invading 
Faction. Their Skills allow them to quickly expand Control 
without actually moving Units into the Regions, and their 
Structures allow them to defend their Regions without 
devoting a large number of Units to the cause. 
The Humans can frequently score for their Regions, 
allowing them to move about nomadically and respond 
to threats dynamically.

PILGRIMS: 
PILGRIMS: 
MACHINES: 
MACHINES: 
With powerful technology and a research focus, 
the Pilgrims act reclusively to profit from the planet’s 
resources. Whereas other races must maintain Control 
of a Region to score its Crystals, the Pilgrims are able to 
extract the Crystals, then use them to score Victory Points 
or activate powerful Skills. They may then withdraw to 
gather strength, only to teleport into hostile Regions when 
their power is maximized once again.
Slow, methodical, unstoppable. This describes the 
unrelenting drive of the Machines. Highly focused on 
Building aggressive offensive and defensive Structures, 
the Machines slowly turn the planet into their fortress. 
Unlike all other Factions, the Machines can move 
Structures between Regions and quickly convert Units 
to Structures, and vice versa, to optimize their tools and 
weaponry for every situation.