CRYPTID
A GAME BY RUTH VEEVERS & 
HAL DUNCAN
ILLUSTRATED BY KWANCHAI 
MORIYA

IN THIS BOX
•	 6 numbered Map tiles
•	 4 Standing Stones (octagons)
•	 4 Abandoned Shacks (triangles)
•	 1 Pawn 
•	 5 sets of Player Tokens (cubes 
and discs in matching colours)
•	 5 Clue Books
•	 54 Cards
S
ea-serpents, yetis, the chupacabra: you’ve studied 
the footage, connected the dots, and gathered what 
meagre evidence you could. You’re close – soon the whole 
world will know the truth behind the cryptid. 
You have come together with a group of like-minded cryptozoologists to 
finally uncover the elusive creature, but the glory of discovery is too rich a 
prize to share. Without giving away some of what you know, you will never 
succeed in locating the beast, but reveal too much and your name will be 
soon forgotten! 
OVERVIEW
You are all cryptozoologists, trying to be the first to discover definitive proof 
of a cryptid in the wilds of North America. Each player will be given a unique 
clue – one piece of crucial information about where the creature lives. When 
combined, the clues identify a single space on the map – the creature’s habitat. 
Each player’s clue either states an area where the creature can be found, 
or where it cannot be found, based on the terrain and structures on the board. 
During the game, you will ask each other questions with the aim of guessing 
each other’s clues. The first player to correctly use all of the clues to find the 
habitat wins the game.

COMPONENTS
THE MAP
The map is the area where your search will be taking 
place, and serves as the focus of the game. It consists 
of six numbered map tiles, divided into hexagonal 
spaces. There are five different types of space: desert, 
forest, water, mountain, and swamp. One corner of 
each tile shows a number, which is used for setup.
ANIMAL TERRITORY
In addition to having a terrain type, a space might 
be part of a bear or a cougar’s territory, as indicated 
by its outline. 
STRUCTURES
Each space may also contain a structure. There 
are two types of structure: standing stones and 
abandoned shacks. Each type comes in four 
colours: white, green, blue and black.
standing stones abandoned shacks
PLAYING PIECES
Each player has their own set of 
cubes and discs, which they will place 
on the board when they are forced to give the other 
players information. A cube means that space 
cannot be the creature’s habitat, according to 
that player’s clue. There can only be a single cube 
on any space. A disc means that space could 
be the creature’s habitat, according to that 
player’s clue. There may be multiple discs stacked 
on a space. Pieces are never removed from the 
board, unless a mistake has been made.
CLUE BOOKS AND CARDS
The deck of cards and the five clue books are used 
for setting the game up and assigning clues. Cards 
with a clear border are for the normal game, while 
cards with a black border are 
used in the advanced game. 
bear territory cougar territory
water
mountain
forest
swamp
desert
1.	 Player count (3, 4 or 5).
2.	 Column of optional hints.
3.	 Card edges indicate the difficulty level.
4.	 Rows indicating which cluebooks and clues each player 
should refer to.

SETUP
Cryptid can be played in normal or advanced mode. 
Normal mode is the best way to get new players 
familiar with the game and clues, while also being 
more suitable for younger players.
There are only two differences in advanced 
mode: 
1.	
Players may receive negative as well as 
positive clues, so some clues may include 
the phrase ‘the habitat is not here’.
2.	
All four structures of each type are used 
instead of three.
At the beginning of the game, choose a starting 
player (we suggest whoever sets up the map), and 
give a set of playing pieces to each player. Whether 
you’re using the app or the clue books, the map will 
be constructed the same way. The numbers in the 
left and right hand columns around the map image 
indicate which map tile goes where, while the dots 
in each corner of the tile indicate its rotation. The 
dot on the map image highlights the space on the 
tile which contains the number.
USING THE COMPANION APP
The fastest way to set up a new game is to put 
the cards and clue books away, then follow the 
instructions at:
www.playcryptid.com
Once everything is set up and clues have been 
allocated, you can put your device away – it 
will not be used during the game unless a 
player needs to check their clue or the group 
requests a hint.
In this case, map tile six would be 
placed on the top left, in this rotation.

USING THE CLUE BOOKS
Once you’ve decided which type of game you want 
to play (normal or advanced), shuffle the cards 
of that type and draw a single card for the table. 
The top side of the card will indicate the order and 
rotation in which to set up the map tiles, and the 
spaces on which to place the structures. 
Once this is complete and double-checked, flip 
the card over. The reverse of the card will indicate 
which clues you should use. First, check the 
leftmost column for the correct number of players. 
Each player in turn order should take one of the 
clue books matching the columns of the numbers 
in that row. The number will match a number in 
that clue book – this is your clue for this game. 
Keep your clue hidden from the other players.
PLAYING THE GAME
The goal of the game is to correctly identify the 
only space on the board which can be the cryptid’s 
habitat. Every game begins with the initial sharing: 
the starting player must place a cube in a space 
on the board which could not be the habitat, 
according to their clue. The player on their left will 
then do the same, and this continues clockwise 
until all players have placed two cubes. You 
are allowed to place your pieces on a space 
which contains a structure, but cannot place 
a piece on a space which contains another 
player’s cube. The starting player will then take 
the first turn.
On your turn you will either ask another player 
a question, or search a space. The turn will then 
pass to the player on your left, unless you’ve 
correctly discovered the habitat. 
Over the course of the game, players will 
place cubes or discs of their colour in different 
spaces on the board. A cube means this space 
could not be the habitat according to that player’s 
clue. A disc means this space could be the habitat 
according to that player’s clue. The only way to 
win the game is to search on the space which 
contains the habitat.
CORE PRINCIPLES
Whether you choose to question or search, you 
must obey these core principles of the game:
•	 You must be honest in placing your pieces 
on the map.
•	 Pieces are never removed from the board.
•	 You may never interact with a space that 
contains any cube. This means that you 
cannot question, search, or place any of 
your pieces on that space.
•	 If you make someone place a cube on 
your turn, you must also place one of 
your cubes somewhere on the board. 
This applies whether you questioned or 
searched.
•	 If one of your pieces is already on a space, 
you cannot add another piece to that 
space.
Sometimes you will be forced to give the other 
players information about your clue. When this 
happens you must be honest in your responses, but 
it is often possible to answer in a way that either 
misleads the other player or gives away as little as 
possible. For example, if one of my cubes is on a 
mountain space already, I might place another one 
of my cubes on a different mountain space to make 
the other players think that my clue is ‘the habitat 
is not in the mountains’.

QUESTIONING
To question, place the pawn on a space on the map, 
and ask any other player ‘Could the creature be 
here?’ You can choose any space to question, even 
one which you know could not be the habitat. In 
fact, this is often a good way to throw people off 
the scent of your own clue!
The player you questioned must say whether 
the space could be the habitat according to their 
clue, and places either a disc or a cube of their 
colour on the selected space, to indicate whether 
the creature could be there or not. If they placed a 
cube, you must now also place a cube on a different 
space which cannot be the habitat according to 
your clue. The turn now passes to the player on 
your left.
SEARCHING
To search, place a pawn on a space on the map 
which could be the habitat according to your clue, 
and declare a search. You must immediately 
place one of your own discs on the space. If 
one of your discs is already on that space, you 
must place a disc on a different space which could 
be the habitat according to your clue, and which 
does not already contain one of your discs.
Moving clockwise, ask each other player 
whether, according to their clue, the creature 
could be there. They must place a cube or a disc 
on the space accordingly, unless one of their discs 
is already on the space, in which case they pass 
their turn to the player on their left.
As soon as one player places a cube, 
everyone stops. No one else makes a declaration, 
and you must now place a cube on a different space 
which cannot be the habitat according to your clue. 
The turn now passes to the player on your left.
If nobody places a cube, you have correctly 
identified the habitat and won the game! You 
should take the opportunity to bask briefly in the 
adulation of the other players, before comparing clues.
ON HONESTY
Cryptid allows room for misdirection, but the 
game is completely dependent on all players 
placing cubes and discs honestly. If that doesn’t 
sound like your gaming group, then this might not 
be the game for you.
Mistakes are rare, but do happen from time 
to time. If a player realises they have made a 
mistake and placed a cube where they should 
have placed a disc (or vice versa), they should 
announce this to the other players as soon as 
they spot their mistake. The player who made 

 
the mistake immediately changes their piece on 
that space. They must also move the piece they 
removed to another legal space. This can take 
place during other players’ turns, not just when 
the player who made a mistake is the active player. 
For example, you might have placed a disc on a 
space where you should have placed a cube. As 
soon as you realise your mistake, you should tell the 
other players, place a cube on the space, and move 
the disc to a different space which could be the 
habitat according to your clue. Remember that you 
cannot place any pieces on a space which already 
has one of your pieces, or any player’s cube on it.
GETTING A HINT
If players are badly stuck, it’s possible to get a hint. 
This must be agreed by all players at the table, or by 
all bar one if playing with four or five players. If using 
the cards, check the number on your card, and find 
it in the Hints section in the back of this rulebook. If 
using the app, just follow the instructions.
HELPFUL TIPS
Here are three small things which will help you 
have a better game:
•	 Make sure everyone playing is familiar 
with all the possible clues. There is an 
explanation of all the clue types in this 
rulebook, and a list of every type of clue 
on the backs of your clue books. 
•	 If there is another player’s disc in a space 
already, stack your disc on top of it, so the 
space is still visible.
•	 You will have an easier time if you use 
a pen and paper to keep track of other 
players’ information.
CLUES
There are several possible clue types, but they all 
relate to distance from certain elements on the 
board. Some clues specify that the habitat must be 
on a type of terrain, while others specify that the 
habitat is within a certain number of spaces of a 
type of terrain, structure, or animal territory. 
Any element on the board is zero spaces away 
from itself. This means that any clue which specifies 
that the habitat is within a certain distance of an 
element includes the space that element is on. 
For example, if your clue is ‘within one space of a 
forest’, that includes every forest space, and every 
space which touches a forest space.
Players will never be given identical clues in 
any game.

POSSIBLE CLUES*
1. THE HABITAT IS ON ONE OF TWO TYPES OF TERRAIN.
Example: ‘The habitat is on forest or swamp.’ 
This player knows the habitat is on a forest space 
or a swamp space, so would place discs on those 
spaces. The player knows the habitat cannot be on 
any other terrain type, so would place cubes on 
spaces with any other terrain type.
2. THE HABITAT IS WITHIN ONE SPACE OF A TYPE OF TERRAIN.
The habitat is within one space of the specified 
terrain type. This includes tiles of the specified 
terrain type.
Example: ‘The habitat is within one space of 
desert.’ The desert spaces are all within one space 
of themselves, so they could be the habitat. A cube 
would be placed on any space which is more than 
one space away from a desert space.
3. THE HABITAT IS WITHIN ONE SPACE OF EITHER ANIMAL TERRITORY.
The habitat is within one space of either animal 
territory. This includes spaces inside those 
territories.
Example: ‘The habitat is within one space 
of either animal territory.’ The spaces within one 
space of bear or cougar territories could be the 
habitat, so the player would place discs on them. 
Any spaces more than one space from an animal 
territory could not be the habitat, so would be 
marked with cubes.
*Highlighted hexes show spaces where you would place discs, 
according to the example specified.

 
4. THE HABITAT IS WITHIN TWO SPACES OF A TYPE OF STRUCTURE.
The habitat is within two spaces of the specified 
type of structure (standing stone or abandoned 
shack). This includes the space containing the 
structure. The colour of the structure is irrelevant 
for this clue. 
Example: ‘The habitat is within two spaces of 
a standing stone.’
5. THE HABITAT IS WITHIN TWO SPACES OF A TYPE OF ANIMAL TERRITORY.
 
The habitat is within two spaces of an animal 
territory of the specified type (either bear or 
cougar). This includes spaces containing the 
specified type of animal territory. For this clue, 
only the specified type counts.
Example: ‘The habitat is not within two spaces 
of bear territory.’ This clue says where the habitat 
cannot be. It cannot be any space which is within 
two spaces of any bear territory, which would all 
be marked with cubes. It can be any space which 
is not within two spaces of bear territory, which 
would be marked with discs.
6. THE HABITAT IS WITHIN THREE SPACES OF A COLOUR OF STRUCTURE.
The habitat is within three spaces of the specified 
colour of structure. This clue includes spaces 
containing the specified colour of structure. The 
type of structure is irrelevant for this clue.
Example: ‘The habitat is within three spaces 
of a blue structure.’ 

HINTS
THERE ARE…
1.	
2.	
3.	
4.	
no clues that mention any animal territory
5.	
6.	
7.	
no terrain or terrain clues
8.	
no within one space clues
9.	
10.	 no clues that mention desert
11.	 no clues that mention forest
12.	 no within two spaces clues
13.	 no within two spaces clues
14.	 no within two spaces clues
15.	 no within three spaces clues
16.	 no within one space clues
17.	 no within two spaces clues
18.	 no clues that mention mountain
19.	 no clues that mention swamp
20.	 no within three spaces clues
21.	 no within one space clues
22.	 no clues that mention mountain
23.	 no within three spaces clues
24.	 no within one space clues
25.	 no within two spaces clues
26.	 no within one space clues
27.	 no clues that mention forest
28.	 no within one space clues
29.	 no within three spaces clues
30.	 no clues that mention water
31.	 no clues that mention swamp
32.	 no terrain or terrain clues
33.	 no within one space clues
34.	 no within two spaces clues
35.	 no within one space clues
36.	 no terrain or terrain clues
37.	 no within one space clues
38.	 no within three spaces clues
39.	 no clues that mention water
40.	 no within three spaces clues
41.	 no within three spaces clues
42.	 no within two spaces clues
43.	 no within three spaces clues
44.	 no within three spaces clues
45.	 no within one space clues
46.	 no clues that mention water
47.	 no within two spaces clues
48.	 no within two spaces clues
49.	 no terrain or terrain clues
50.	 no within two spaces clues
51.	 no within two spaces clues
52.	 no clues that mention any type of terrain
53.	 no within two spaces clues
54.	 no within three spaces clues
55.	 no within one space clues
56.	 no within three spaces clues
57.	 no clues that mention desert
58.	 no within three spaces clues
59.	 no terrain or terrain clues
60.	 no within two spaces clues
61.	 no within two spaces clues
62.	 no within two spaces clues
63.	 no clues that mention forest
64.	 no within two spaces clues

65.	 no within two spaces clues
66.	 no within three spaces clues
67.	 no within two spaces clues
68.	 no clues that mention swamp
69.	 no clues that mention mountain
70.	 no within three spaces clues
71.	 no clues that mention desert
72.	 no within two spaces clues
73.	 no within three spaces clues
74.	 no within three spaces clues
75.	 no within three spaces clues
76.	 no within one space clues
77.	 no within two spaces clues
78.	 no within two spaces clues
79.	 no within three spaces clues
80.	 no terrain or terrain clues
Thanks to all our playtesters who have endured many less 
intuitive, and some broken, versions of the game: Steve, Jenni, 
Max, Charlotte, Matt, Pete, John, Anthony, Dave, Rasmus 
& many others from Norwich Board Gamers.
First published in Great Britain in 2018 by OSPREY GAMES
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
PO Box 883, Oxford, OX1 9PL, UK
1385 Broadway, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10018, USA
OSPREY GAMES is a trademark of Osprey Publishing Ltd
© Ruth Veevers & Anthony Duncan, 2018. 
This edition © 2018 Osprey Publishing Ltd
All rights reserved. www.ospreygames.co.uk
For more information or replacement parts, email: 
info@ospreygames.co.uk
18 19 20 21 22 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
 

QUICK REFERENCE RULES
SETUP
Set up the board and assign clues using the app, 
or the cards and clue books. Begin the game 
with the initial sharing: the starting player must 
place a cube in a space on the board which could 
not be the habitat, according to their clue. The 
player on their left will then do the same, and 
this continues clockwise until all players have 
placed two cubes. The starting player takes the 
first turn. 
TURNS
On your turn you must either:
QUESTION 
Pick any space and ask one other player if this 
space could be the habitat. They must either 
say it could be (placing a disc), or could not be 
(placing a cube), according to their clue.
SEARCH 
Pick one space which could be the habitat 
according to your clue. Question every player 
clockwise around the table until someone 
places a cube. If nobody does, you have won. If 
somebody does place a cube, the search stops.
CORE PRINCIPLES
Whether you choose to question or search, you 
must obey these core principles of the game:
•	 You must be honest in placing your 
pieces on the map. 
 
•	 Pieces are never removed from the 
board.
•	 You may never interact with a space that 
contains any cube. This means that you 
cannot question, search, or place any of 
your pieces on that space.
•	 If you make someone place a cube on 
your turn, you must also place one of 
your cubes somewhere on the board. 
This applies whether you questioned or 
searched.
•	 If one of your pieces is already on a 
space, you cannot add another piece to 
that space.
TOPOGRAPHY
water
mountain
forest
swamp
desert
cougar territory
bear territory
standing stone
abandoned shack