The servants of Cthulhu are trying to drive each other mad. The last
sane Cultist wins . . . unless Cthulhu drives you all mad.
This set contains one 12-sided die, 18 glass stones to represent 
Sanity, a ziplock bag, and these rules. Two or more can play.
Each player takes three Sanity tokens. Any extra tokens are set
aside and not used. The owner of the game decides who is the first
Caster. In a series of games, the winner of the last game goes first.
The Caster picks a Victim and tries to curse him by rolling the
die. The results take place immediately:
Yellow Sign – Your target (whoever you were rolling against)
loses 1 Sanity to Cthulhu. Push one token to the middle of
the table.
Tentacle – The Caster takes 1 Sanity from the Victim, whether
the Caster or the Victim rolls the Tentacle. If the Caster is
mad when he attacks, he does not get to keep the stolen
Sanity. It goes to Cthulhu.
Elder Sign – You gain 1 Sanity from Cthulhu. If there are no
Sanity tokens in the middle of the table, you get nothing.
Cthulhu – Everyone loses 1 Sanity to Cthulhu. 
Eye – Choose any result above.
Then the Victim gets to respond. He rolls the die, with the
Caster as his target. Again, the results take place immediately.
A roll, followed by the Victim’s response, is one complete turn.
Then the player to the Caster’s left takes his turn.
You may not pass – you have to roll.
CTHULHU
Cthulhu is in the middle of the table (Aieee! Ia!) Any time a
player loses Sanity to Cthulhu, it goes to the middle of the table. A player who
rolls the Elder Sign gets one Sanity back from Cthulhu.
Yellow Sign
Eye
Cthulhu
Elder Sign
Tentacle

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
cthulhudice.sjgames.com
Cthulhu Dice is a trademark, and the all-seeing pyramid is a registered trademark, of Steve 
Jackson Games. Copyright © 2010 by Steve Jackson Games. All rights reserved. Cthulhu fhtagn!
Version 1.0 (March 2010)
MADNESS
Once you lose all your Sanity, you’ve gone Mad. On your turn, you can
still attack, but no one can attack you.
If you steal Sanity while you are MAD, you don’t get to keep it . . . it goes
to Cthulhu!
If you lose Sanity again after you go Mad, you have nothing to lose, so
nothing happens.
The only way you can become sane again is to roll the Elder Sign and get
Sanity back from Cthulhu.
WINNING
You win if you are the only one with any Sanity left at the end of a turn.
If everyone is Mad at the end of a turn, the game is over and Cthulhu wins.
RIVAL CULTS
(variant rules for two players)
If you have only two players, each of you can play two, or even three,
cultists. Players should still take alternate turns. The winner is the player
with the last cultist still sane. There will be times when the best strategy will
be to attack your own side!
Game design by Steve Jackson • Illustrated by Alex Fernandez
Development: Philip Reed, Randy Scheunemann, and Will Schoonover
Project Administrator: Elisabeth Zakes • Marketing Director: Paul Chapman
Director of Sales: Ross Jepson
Playtesters: Christine Belsom, Jimmie Bragdon, Mario Butter, Paul Chapman, Richard Dodson, 
Andrew Hackard, John Ickes, Richard Kerr, Jonathan A. Leistiko, Kristopher Peterson, 
Monica Stephens, David Stanisz, Loren Wiseman, Brian Worthen, Elisabeth Zakes, Robert Zakes
Download rules in other languages today at cthulhudice.sjgames.com.
®