R U L E S O F P L AY
© 2018 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2. Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	4
3. Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4. Special Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8
5. Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	9
6. Propaganda Rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	10
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
by Jeff Grossman and Volko Ruhnke
3rd Printing — Living Rules March, 2019
7. Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	11
8. Non-Player Factions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
Key Terms Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	17
Counter scans. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	19
Set Up. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	20
Available Forces. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	20
Castro’s
Insurgency
COIN Series, Volume II

Mountain 
City
Grassland 
Forest 
Town
Boundary
Population Value
At Start set up
1.0 INTRODUCTION
Cuba Libre is a 1- to 4-player board game depicting insurgent 
and counterinsurgent (COIN) conflict in Cuba, 1957-1958. Each 
player takes the role of a Faction seeking to run Cuban affairs: the 
Government (Govt) or 1 of 3 Insurgent Factions—the leftist Move­
ment of 26July (26July or M26), the anti-communist, anti-Batista 
Revolutionary Directorate (Directorio or DR), and the organized 
crime Syndicate. Using military, political, and economic actions 
and exploiting various events, players build and maneuver forces 
to influence the population, extract resources, or otherwise achieve 
their Faction’s aims. A deck of cards regulates turn order, events, 
victory checks, and the like. The rules can run non-player Factions, 
enabling solitaire, 2-player, or multi-player games.
Cuba Libre is the second volume in the COIN Series of games using 
similar rules to cover a variety of modern insurgencies, and other 
factional conflicts. The Playbook on page 14 summarizes key rules 
differences.
This rule book lists and defines key game terms in an index on 
pages 17 to 18. The most important game functions are summarized 
on several aid sheets. Game set up is explained on the back of this 
rule book. 
1.1 General Course of Play
Cuba Libre—unlike most card-assisted war games—does not use 
hands of cards. Instead, cards are played from the deck one at time, 
with one card ahead revealed to all players. Each Event card shows 
the order in which the Factions become Eligible to choose between 
the card’s Event or one of a menu of Operations and Special Activi­
ties. Executing an Event or Operation carries the penalty of render­
ing that Faction Ineligible to do so on the next card. Propaganda 
cards mixed in with the Event cards provide periodic opportunities 
for instant wins and for activities such as collecting resources and 
influencing popular sympathies.
1.2 Components
A complete set of Cuba Libre includes:
•	 A 17”x22” mounted game board (1.3).
•	 A deck of 52 cards (5.0).
•	 86 dark and light blue, red, green, and yellow wooden forces 
pieces, some embossed (1.4; see “Available Forces” on page 20 
for a complete listing).
•	 8 embossed cylinders (1.8, 2.2).
•	 6 white and 6 black pawns (3.1.1).
•	 A sheet of markers.
•	 2 (identical) Sequence of Play sheets (1.3.1, 2.0, 5.0, 6.0).
•	 4 Faction player aid foldouts (3.0, 4.0, 7.0)
•	 A Non-player aid foldout (8.0).
•	 3 6-sided dice—1 red, 1 yellow, 1 green.
•	 A background play book.
•	 This rule book.
1.3 The Map
The map shows the island of Cuba divided into various types of 
spaces.
1.3.1 Map Spaces. Map spaces include rural Provinces, urban Cities, 
and Economic Centers (ECs). All can hold forces. 
1.3.2 Provinces. Each Province shows a Population value (Pop) 
of 1 or 2 that affects victory via Support for or Opposition to the 
Government (1.6) or Control (1.7) and some Insurgent Operations 
(3.3). Provinces are further distinguished by terrain as Forest, 
Mountain, or Grassland, affecting some COIN Operations (3.2) 
and Events (5.0).
1.3.3 Cities. Each City shows a Population value of 1 or 6. 
Economic 
Center (EC)
Place Support and 
Opposition markers 
here
Economic Center
Place control markers here

Use on the Edge Track:
Victory-related and Aid markers
Government 
Cubes:
26July
Guerrillas:
Directorio
Base:
Syndicate
Bases:
(Casinos)
Troops
Police
Underground
Active
Open
TYPES OF FORCES
1.3.4 ECs. Each Economic Center (EC) shows an Economic value 
(Econ) of 2 or 3 affecting Government and Syndicate Resources 
(1.8). 
DESIGN NOTE: ECs represent zones of economic activity important 
to the government —such as sugar, mining, and tobacco—the major­
ity owned by US corporations. The towns Santa Clara and Guanta­
namo are not spaces; they are shown for historical interest. 
1.4 Forces
The wooden pieces represent the Factions’ various forces: Gov­
ernment Troops (dark-blue cubes) and Police (light-blue cubes), 
Insurgent Guerrillas, and all Factions’ Bases. The Syndicate Faction’s 
Bases are a special type called Casinos (1.4.4-.5, 3.3.5). 
DESIGN NOTE: Bases represent not only bivouacs and training 
camps but also, for the 26July and Directorio Factions, political 
administration and, for the Syndicate, casinos.
NOTE: Cash markers (4.5.2), though not forces or pieces, stack with 
a specific Guerrilla or cube while on the map.
1.4.1 Availability and Removal. The inventory shown on the 
“Available Forces” chart on the back of this rule book limits the 
number of pieces that may be in play. Keep forces not on the map 
in the Forces holding boxes. (Place Bases in the highest-numbered 
empty circles, revealing the number of on-map Bases to help track 
victory, 7.0)
•	 Forces may only be placed from or replaced with those available 
in the holding boxes—ignore any instructions to place forces if 
the appropriate type is not available because all are already on 
the map (remove rather than replace such pieces).
•	 Important: A player Faction while executing an Operation, Special 
Activity, or Event may remove its own pieces (including Casinos) 
to Available Forces. EXAMPLE: Insurgents without Available 
Guerrillas could remove Active Guerrillas during a Rally (3.3.1) 
in order to place them Underground. 
•	 Once an enemy Faction is targeted, removal or Activation of 
pieces to the extent of the executing Faction’s ability is required. 
EXAMPLE: A Government Assault (3.2.4) with 3 Troops in Forest 
must remove 3 Active pieces if there are at least that many among 
those Factions targeted.
1.4.2 Stacking. At most 2 non-Casino Bases (total Bases of Govern­
ment, 26July, plus Directorio) plus 2 Casinos may occupy a single 
Province or City. Bases and Casinos may not occupy ECs. 
•	 Ignore any instructions (such as from Operations or Events) to 
place or move forces if stacking would be violated. EXCEPTION: 
“Sinatra” Event.
1.4.3 Underground/Active. Guerrillas are either 
Underground—symbol end down, or Active—sym­
bol end up. Certain actions flip them from one to the 
other state. Always set up and place new Guerrillas 
Underground (including if replacing a piece).
NOTE: Unless text specifies “Underground” Guerrilla, it is sufficient 
to “Activate” already Active Guerrillas (they stay Active).
1.4.4 Open/Closed. Casinos are either open—symbol up, or 
closed—symbol down. Set up and place Casinos open. EXCEP­
TION: Construct, 3.3.5. 
1.4.5 Casinos Not Removed. Any action that would remove or re­
place a normal Base instead closes an open Casino and has no effect 
on a closed Casino (3.2.4, 3.3.3, 4.2.2, 4.4.3, 5.1.1). EXCEPTION: 
The Syndicate may voluntarily remove or close Casinos (1.4.1). 
DESIGN NOTE: Although rebels would disrupt casino operations, 
the Cuban Revolution did not see large-scale attacks on casinos, 
hotels, or other Syndicate holdings. An Assault or Air Strike that 
closes a Casino may represent authorities forcing closure in order 
to pressure the Mob or nearby fighting blocking revenue.
Capabilities
markers 
Support and Opposition
markers (1.6.2)
Terror
(3.3.4)
Sabotage
(3.3.4)
Use on the Propa­
ganda Track
Cash
Markers
U.S.
Alliance
Deception
(Optional Rule)
Control Markers
Use to mark control of Cities and Provinces
Markers
Closed

Total Support equals:
(2 x Population in Active Support) + (1 x Population in Pas­
sive Support)
Total Opposition equals:
(2 x Population in Active Opposition) + (1 x Population in 
Passive Opposition)
Opposition + Bases equals:
Total Opposition + The number of 26July Bases on the map
DR Pop + Bases equals:
Population of all spaces Controlled by Directorio + The number 
of Directorio Bases on the map
•	 Directorio victory depends on the sum of Population Con­
trolled by Directorio (1.7) plus Directorio Bases – “DR Pop 
+ Bases”.
•	 Syndicate victory includes the number of “Open Casinos” 
on the map (1.4.4). 
NOTE: The 12 “Deception” markers are for a victory-related 
optional rule (7.3).
1.7 Control
A Faction Controls a Province or City if its pieces there exceed 
those of all other Factions combined. (If none does, the space is 
uncontrolled.) Casinos count only if open (1.4.4). Control affects 
certain Faction activities and victory. Adjust Control markers to show 
a Faction’s control as it changes due to Operations (3.0), Special 
Activities (4.0), Events (5.0), voluntary force removal (1.4.1), or 
the Propaganda Round (6.0). 
1.8 Resources and Aid
At any moment, each 
Faction has between 0 
and 49 Resources that it 
uses to pay for Opera­
tions (3.0). During Propaganda Rounds (6.2.1) and Events, a level 
of Aid (0 to 49) adds to Government Resources. Mark Resources 
and Aid on the edge track—for Resources, with a cylinder of the 
Faction’s color (1.5). Negotiated transfer of Resources (1.5.1) may 
only be to or from a Faction executing an Operation, Special Activ­
ity, or Event (per 2.3). 
2.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
2.1 Set Up
Follow the instructions on the back page of this rule book to decide 
upon various play options, assign Factions to players, prepare the 
deck, and set up markers and forces. 
Short Game Option: Set aside 8 random Event cards, face 
down, then prepare the deck.
2.2 Start 
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile. Then reveal the next card on top of the 
draw deck. The card on the played card pile is played first; the card 
on top of the draw deck will be played next. NOTE: Players will 
see one card ahead into the deck (2.3.8). All played cards and the 
number of cards in the draw deck are open to inspection.
1.5 Players & Factions
Cuba Libre may have up to 4 players, each as 1 or more Factions: 
26July (or M26, red), the Government (Govt, blue), the Directorio 
(DR, yellow) or the Syndicate (green). In a 1-player game, the player 
plays Government and Syndicate together, or 26July and DR, or 
any 1 Faction (8.9). Leftover Factions are controlled either by rules 
section 8 as “Non-players” or, if preferred with 2 or 3 players, as 
below. Each of the Factions is enemy to all others.
No Non-Player Option: If playing with 2 or 3 players, ignore 
the Non-Player rules (8.0). Instead, players control leftover 
Factions:
•	 With 3 players, 26July controls Directorio (or, if players 
prefer, the Government controls the Syndicate).
•	 With 2 players, 26July controls Directorio and Government 
controls Syndicate.
Play only stops on a victory check (6.1) if all of a player’s Fac­
tions are meeting their conditions.
After final Propaganda, use the lowest victory margin of each 
player’s Factions (7.3). Players may not voluntarily transfer 
(1.5.1) anything between their own Factions (including Cash, 
4.5.2). NOTE: A Government/Syndicate player could provide 
Government cubes with Cash using the Syndicate’s Profit 
Special Activity (4.5.1) and must Skim (6.2.3). 
1.5.1 Negotiation. Players may make any mutual arrangements 
within the rules but may voluntarily transfer only Resources (1.8) or 
Cash (4.5.2) —Resources only at any time that the giving or receiv­
ing Faction is executing an Operation, Special Activity, or Event. All 
negotiations are open. The rules do not bind players to agreements.
1.6 Support and Opposition 
Support and Opposition affect victory and some actions. 
1.6.1 Cities and Provinces always show 1 of 5 levels of its populace’s 
Support for or Opposition to the Government that can shift during play: 
•	 Active Support.
•	 Passive Support.
•	 Neutral.
•	 Passive Opposition.
•	 Active Opposition.
1.6.2 Show Active or Passive Support or Opposition with markers 
placed at each City or Province. Show Neutral spaces by the absence 
of such markers. Active Support/Opposition counts double for Total 
Support/Opposition.
NOTE: ECs (1.3.4) have no Population and never hold Support or 
Opposition.
1.6.3 Victory Markers. Various totals affect 
victory (7.0). Adjust the following markers 
on the numbered edge track per the box 
below as any changes in these totals occur:
•	 Government victory depends on the total value of population in 
Support—“Total Support”—per the box below.
•	 26July victory similarly depends on Opposition plus the number 
of 26July Bases on the map—“Opposition + Bases”.

RECORD STEPS: As the steps of each Event card play are complet­
ed, place a cylinder of the Faction’s color (1.5) into the Sequence 
of Play track’s appropriate box (or, for Propaganda Rounds [6.0], 
advance the Card marker).
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, up to 2 Factions will execute Opera­
tions or the Event; other Factions may Pass and collect Resources.
•	 Factions whose cylinder is in the “Eligible” box receive these 
options in the left-to-right order of the Faction symbols shown at 
the top of the card. 
•	 Factions with cylinders in the “Ineligible” box do nothing. 
2.3.1 Eligibility. Factions that did not execute an Operation or Event 
on the previous card are Eligible (their cylinders will start the card 
in the “Eligible” box per 2.3.7). Factions that did are Ineligible. (All 
Factions start the game Eligible.) See also Free Operations, 3.1.2.
2.3.2 Faction Order. The Eligible Faction with the leftmost symbol 
in its color (skipping any Ineligible Factions) is the 1st Eligible to 
execute an Operation or Event or to Pass. The next leftmost is the 
2nd Eligible. 
Faction 
Order
NOTE: Gray halos around some Faction symbols relate only to 
Non-player instructions (8.4.1).
2.3.3 Passing. If a 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction opts to Pass, it receives 
+1 Resources (or +3 Resources if Government) and remains Eligible 
for the next card. The next leftmost Eligible Faction then replaces the 
Passing Faction as the new 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction and receives 
the same options to execute or Pass. If the last (rightmost) Eligible 
Faction Passes, adjust cylinders (2.3.7) and play the next card.
2.3.4 Options for Eligible Factions. 
FIRST ELIGIBLE: If the 1st Eligible Faction does not Pass (2.3.3), 
it may execute either:
•	 An Operation (3.0)—with or without a Special Activity (4.0)—
or
•	 The Event shown on the card.
OPTIONS FOR 2ND ELIGIBLE: If the 2nd Eligible Faction does 
not Pass (2.3.3), it also may execute an Operation and possibly 
the Event, but its options depend on what the 1st Eligible Faction 
executed:
• Op Only: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an Operation, the 
2nd Eligible Faction may execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5).
• Op & Special Activity: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an 
Operation with a Special Activity, the 2nd Eligible Faction may 
instead execute the Event.
• Event: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event, the 2nd 
Eligible Faction may execute an Operation, with a Special Activity 
if desired.
NOTE: For ease of reference, these options are illustrated on the 
Sequence of Play aid sheet and on the game board.
2.3.5 Limited Operation. A Limited Operation (LimOp) is an 
Operation in just 1 space, with no Special Activity. If the Limited 
Operation is a Garrison (3.2.2), Sweep (3.2.3), or March (3.3.2), 
it can involve pieces from multiple spaces but only 1 destination 
space. A Limited Operation counts as an Operation. See also Final 
Event Card (2.3.9) and Non-player Operations (8.1).
2.3.6 Launder. Whenever a 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction pays Re­
sources to execute an Operation (including a Limited Operation, 
2.3.5) but executes no Special Activity, it may remove a Cash marker 
that it owns (4.5.2) to immediately execute an additional, free, Lim­
ited Operation of any type except Construct (3.3.5). Alternatively, a 
different Faction may remove its own Cash marker to enable the 1st 
or 2nd Eligible Faction to execute such a free Operation. A Faction 
may only benefit from 1 such Cash marker per card. 
EXAMPLE: The Syndicate after executing a Rally removes a Cash 
marker, then executes a March to 1 space at no Resource cost.
DESIGN NOTE: The free LimOp reflects the use of a stash of cash 
to heighten an operation’s tempo.
2.3.7 Adjust Eligibility. After the 1st and 2nd Eligible Factions 
complete all execution of Operations, Special Activities, and Events 
(or after all Eligible Factions instead have Passed), adjust cylinders 
on the Sequence of Play Track as follows:
•	 Any Factions that did not execute an Operation or Event this card 
(and not rendered Ineligible by an Event) to the “Eligible” box.
•	 Any Faction that executed an Operation (including a Limited 
Operation) or Event this card to the “Ineligible” box (unless oth­
erwise specified by the Event; see also Free Operations, 3.1.2.).
2.3.8 Next Card. After adjusting Eligibility, move the draw deck’s 
top card onto the played card pile face-up and reveal the draw deck’s 
next card. Play the card on the played card pile, proceeding with the 
appropriate sequence.
Sudden Propaganda Option: For less foreknowledge, if all 
players agree at Setup (2.1), whenever the next card is revealed 
as Propaganda, instead switch the places of the 2 showing 
cards and conduct an immediate Propaganda Round (6.0). The 
switched Event card will be the first card of the next Campaign 
(unless the game ends that Round). Ignore rule 2.3.9 below 
regarding the Final Event Card.
Keep track of Eligibility and Actions taken using the cylinders and 
Sequence of Play Track

2.3.9 Final Event Card. On the last Event card before the final 
Propaganda Card (2.4.1), any player Operations must be Limited 
(2.3.5, no Special Activities).
2.4 Propaganda Card
If playing a Propaganda Card, conduct a Propaganda Round (6.0).
2.4.1 Final Propaganda. If there is no victory in the 4th Propaganda 
card’s Victory Phase (6.1), continue through the Support Phase (only, 
6.3.5) and end the game: determine victory by 7.3. 
PLAY NOTE: Set aside Propaganda cards to show how many have 
gone by. Each series of Event cards up to a Propaganda Round is 
called a “Campaign”.
3.0 OPERATIONS
3.1 Operations in General
The Faction executing an Operation (Op) chooses 1 of the 4 Opera­
tions listed on its Faction aid sheet and, if applicable, selects the 
map spaces to be involved. The Faction usually pays a cost in Re­
sources (not Aid,1.8), often per space selected; it must have enough 
Resources to pay for the Operation, including in each selected space. 
A given space may be selected only once for a given Operation. 
The executing Faction chooses the order of the spaces in which the 
Operation is resolved, the enemy Factions or pieces to be affected 
(targeted), and the friendly pieces to be placed or replaced. A single 
Operation may target one or more Factions and ignore others. Once 
targeted, a Faction’s pieces are affected to the maximum extent 
possible (1.4.1).
3.1.1 Pawns. Players may mark spaces selected for Operations (3.0) 
or Special Activities (4.0) with white or black pawns. (The pawns 
are for convenience, not a limit on the number of spaces that may 
be selected.)
3.1.2 Free Operations. Certain Events (5.5) or Laundering Cash 
(2.3.6) grant free Operations or Special Activities: they cost no 
Resources and, if executed by a Faction other than the one playing 
an Event, could leave it Eligible (2.3.7). Other requirements and 
procedures still apply unless trumped by Event text (5.1.1, 5.5.). 
Construct Operations are never free (3.3.5).
3.2 COIN Operations
The Government chooses from Train, Garrison, Sweep, and 
Assault Operations. 
3.2.1 Train. Training Operations augment Government forces and 
possibly build Support (1.6). Select any Provinces or Cities and 
pay 2, 3, or 4 Resources per selected space according to the US 
Alliance track (6.3.1).
PROCEDURE: First, in each selected Province with a Government 
Base AND in each selected City, place up to 4 cubes (any combi­
nation of Available Troops and Police). Then, in up to 1 selected 
space, either: 
•	 Replace any 2 cubes with 1 Government Base (within 
stacking,1.4.2), OR 
•	 Conduct Civic Action (6.3.2) to build Support. As during the 
Support Phase, the Government must have Troops, Police, and 
Control (1.7) in the space and must pay added Resources per 6.3.2 
(even if Training was free).
3.2.2 Garrison. Garrison Operations protect ECs by moving Troops 
or Police to them and finding and removing Guerrillas there. Pay 2, 
3, or 4 Resources total (not per space) according to the US Alliance 
track (6.3.1). If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), all moving cubes must 
end on a single destination space. 
PROCEDURE: Move any number of cubes from any spaces to any 
ECs or Cities. Then, in each EC (whether or not a cube just moved 
there and even if the Garrison is a Limited Operation [2.3.5]), 
Activate 1 Guerrilla for each cube there. Then, if desired, Assault 
(3.2.4) in 1 EC at no added cost. If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), the 
Assault must be in the destination EC.
3.2.3 Sweep. Sweep Operations may move Troops (typically, into 
contested areas) and also can locate enemy Guerrillas. Select any 
Cities or Provinces as destinations. Pay 2, 3, or 4 Resources per 
space according to the US Alliance track (6.3.1).
PROCEDURE: First, move any adjacent Troops desired into se­
lected spaces. 
•	 Then, in selected spaces other than Forest, Activate 1 Guerrilla 
(1.4.3) for each cube there (Police plus Troops, whether they just 
moved or were already there). 
•	 In Forest spaces, Activate only 1 Guerrilla for every 2 cubes 
(round odd cubes down). 
3.2.4 Assault. Assault Operations eliminate Insurgent forces. Select 
any spaces and pay 2, 3, or 4 Resources per space according to the 
US Alliance track (6.3.1). 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, remove 1 Active Guerrilla 
(1.4.3) for each Troops cube there. Once a targeted Faction has no 
Guerrillas in the space, remove (or close, 1.4.5) its Bases instead. 
•	 In a City or EC, also remove 1 enemy piece for each Police there. 
•	 In Mountain, instead remove only 1 piece for every 2 Troops 
(rounded down). 
SEIZURE: If a Cash marker was removed (4.5.2), place it with a 
cube in the space.
DESIGN NOTE: Guerrillas are less militarily capable than Govern­
ment forces but enjoy an information advantage in that Government 
Operations generally must first Sweep to Activate (locate) them 
before Assaulting them. 
NOTE: The Faction aid sheets use the phrase “Bases last” to remind 
that an Operation cannot remove an enemy Base as long as Guerril­
las (Active or Underground), Troops, or Police of the same Faction 
remain in the same space. All of a Faction’s Guerrillas in a space 
may be Underground, preventing further removal via Assault of its 
pieces (including Bases) until the Guerrillas are Activated. 
3.3 Insurgent Operations
Insurgent Factions choose from Rally, March, 
Terror, and (for 26July and Directorio) Attack or (for Syndicate) 
Construct Operations.
NOTE: On the Faction aid sheets under “Insurgent Operations”, 
the terms “Guerrillas” and “Bases” mean those of the executing 
Faction (friendly), unless otherwise specified.
3.3.1 Rally. Rally Operations augment or recover friendly forces. 
Select any Provinces or Cities. Pay 1 Resource per space selected. 
•	 26July may only select spaces at Neutral or Opposition, not those 
with Support (1.6).

•	 Directorio may only select Neutral or Passive spaces, not those 
with Active Support or Active Opposition.
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, the executing Faction places 
1 of its Available Guerrillas. 26July or Directorio may instead replace 
2 of their Guerrillas with 1 of their Bases, within stacking (1.4.2). 
If the space already has any of the executing Faction’s Bases (for 
Syndicate, open Casino, 1.4.4), the Faction may instead:
•	 Flip all its Guerrillas there Underground (any Faction,1.4.3) 
OR
•	 If 26July, place a number of its Available Guerrillas up to twice 
the number of its Bases there plus twice the space’s Population 
value (1.3.2-.3).
•	 If Directorio, place a number of its Available Guerrillas up to the 
number of its Bases there plus the space’s Population value.
3.3.2 March. March moves friendly Guerrillas. Pay 1 Resource per 
final destination City or Province (0 Resources to move to ECs). 
If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), all moving Guerrillas must end in a 
single destination space. 
NOTE: Guerrillas must enter a new space in order to benefit from 
an Event effect that calls for a March first (“Armored Cars”, “El 
Che”, or “The Twelve”)—representing the advantages of fast-mov­
ing light units. 
PROCEDURE: The executing Faction moves any of its Guerril­
las desired into adjacent spaces. No Guerrilla moves more than 
once. Guerrillas moving from a space to the same final destination 
move as a single group. Set Guerrillas of a moving group to Active 
(1.4.3) if: 
•	 They enter a City or Province with Support (1.6) or an EC 
AND
•	 The moving group’s number of Guerrillas plus the number of 
cubes in the entered space exceeds 3. 
EXAMPLE: A group of 2 Underground 26July Guerrillas March 
from Sierra Maestra to Oriente, which has Passive Support and 
where there are 1 Police and 1 Troops cubes. Because the destination 
is a Province with Support and the total of 4 cubes and moving Guer­
rillas involved exceeds 3, the 2 moving Guerrillas flip to Active.
NOTE: March often Activates Guerrillas, but most non-March moves 
by Event (5.0) do not.
3.3.3 Attack. Attack Operations seek to eliminate enemy forces; par­
ticularly successful attacks augment friendly Guerrillas (by capturing 
enemy weapons, equipment, rations, or recruits). Select any spaces 
where the executing Faction—it must be 26July or Directorio—has 
at least 1 Guerrilla and 1 enemy piece; pay 1 Resource per space.
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) all the ex­
ecuting Faction’s Guerrillas and then roll a die: if the roll is less than 
or equal to the number of the executing Faction’s Guerrillas there 
(whether or not they began Active), remove or close (1.4.5) up to 2 
enemy pieces (executing Faction’s choice; may include Underground 
Guerrillas). The 2 pieces may belong to different Factions. 
•	 Attack cannot remove a targeted Faction’s Base before all that 
Faction’s cubes or Guerrillas in the space. 
•	 Attack cannot close Casinos if any Syndicate Guerrillas, Troops, 
or Police remain in the space.
NOTE: Government forces thus protect Syndicate Casinos from 
Insurgent Attack. 
CAPTURED GOODS: If the roll was a “1”, place 1 of the execut­
ing Faction’s Available Guerrillas (1.4.1) there. If a Cash marker 
was removed (4.5.2), place it in the space with a Guerrilla of the 
executing Faction.
3.3.4 Terror. Terror Operations in Provinces 
or Cities neutralize (or, for 26July, build) 
Support or Opposition (1.6) and place Terror 
markers that hinder future efforts to influence 
it. In ECs, they place Sabotage markers that block Government 
Resource earnings (6.2.1). Select any spaces where the executing 
Faction has at least 1 Underground Guerrilla; pay 1 Resource per 
City or Province (0 for ECs).
PROCEDURE: Activate 1 friendly Underground Guerrilla in each 
selected space. 
•	 If the space is a Province or City, place a Terror marker and shift 
any Support or Opposition 1 level toward Neutral (remove Passive 
or shift Active to Passive and adjust Total Support or Opposition, 
1.6) OR, if 26July, toward Active Opposition. 
•	 If the space is an EC without a Sabotage marker, place a Sabotage 
marker.
•	 Do not place a Terror/Sabotage marker if all are already on the 
map. (There are 20.) 
NOTE: Several Terror markers may occupy a Province or City; only 
1 Sabotage marker may occupy an EC.
3.3.5 Construct. Construct Operations—executed only by the Syn­
dicate—build new Casinos or open closed ones. Select any Cities or 
Provinces that either the Government or the Syndicate Controls (1.7); 
pay 5 Resources per space (Construct is never free, 2.3.6, 3.1.2).
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, either place a closed Casino 
(within stacking, 1.4.2) or open a closed Casino (1.4.4).

4.0 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
4.1 Special Activities in General 
When a Faction per the Event Card sequence of play (2.3) executes 
an Operation in at least 1 space (3.0), it may also execute 1 type of 
its Special Activities (Exception: Limited Operations, 2.3.5). Some 
Events grant free Special Activities (3.1.2).
•	 As with Operations, the executing Faction selects spaces, Fac­
tions, or pieces affected and the order of actions. A Faction may 
execute its Special Activity at any one time immediately before, 
during, or immediately after the execution of its Operation. 
EXAMPLE: 26July with 0 Resources Kidnaps to pay for the neces­
sary accompanying Terror thereafter (4.1.1). 
PLAY NOTE: If the 1st Eligible Faction uses a Special Activity, 
the 2nd Eligible will have the option of executing the card’s Event 
(2.3.4). 
4.1.1. Accompanying Operations. Some Special Activities specify 
that they may only accompany certain types of Operations (3.0). 
Certain Special Activities may take place only in the locations of 
their Accompanying Operations. If not otherwise specified, Special 
Activities may accompany any Operations and take place in any 
otherwise valid spaces. 
4.2 Government Special Activities
The Government may choose from Transport, Air Strike, 
or Reprisal Special Activities. 
4.2.1 Transport. Transport moves Troops, especially to mass them 
quickly for an Operation. 
PROCEDURE: Move up to 3 Troops from a City or Base to any 
1 other space. 
4.2.2 Air Strike. An Air Strike destroys an exposed Insurgent unit. 
It may only accompany Garrison, Sweep, or Assault (3.2.2-.4) and 
occur in a Province or EC (not City). It may not occur if US Alliance 
is Embargoed (6.3.1).
PROCEDURE: Remove 1 Active Guerrilla or, if the targeted Faction 
has no Guerrillas in the space, remove or close 1 of its Bases.
4.2.3 Reprisal. Reprisal reduces Opposition and displaces Guerril­
las. It may only accompany Garrison, Sweep, or Assault (3.2.2-.4) 
and occur in 1 Govt-Controlled space (1.7).
PROCEDURE: Place a Terror marker in the selected space. Shift 
Opposition (if any) 1 level toward Neutral. Relocate 1 Guerrilla 
from there to an adjacent space.
4.3 26July Special Activities
26July may choose from Infiltrate, Ambush, or Kidnap 
Special Activities.
4.3.1 Infiltrate. Infiltration replaces Government forces with 26July 
Guerrillas. It may only accompany Rally or March (3.3.1-.2). It may 
occur in any 1 space without Support (including an EC) that has or 
is adjacent to an Underground 26July Guerrilla.
PROCEDURE: Remove or replace 1 cube in the space—Police, if 
any there, otherwise Troops—with a 26July Guerrilla.
COMMANDEER: Place any Cash removed (4.5.2) with a 26July 
Guerrilla in the space.
4.3.2 Ambush. An Ambush enables 26July to ensure the complete 
success of an Attack in 1 space. It must take place in a space selected 
for Attack (3.3.3, not yet resolved) and that has at least 1 Under­
ground 26July Guerrilla (1.4.3).
PROCEDURE: Instead of the usual Attack procedure (3.3.3), the 
Attack in that space Activates 1 Underground Guerrilla only and 
automatically succeeds (do not roll; remove the 2 enemy pieces 
normally). Place an Available 26July Guerrilla in the space (Un­
derground, 1.4.3) as if a “1” had been rolled.
4.3.3 Kidnap. Kidnapping takes variable amounts of Resources 
(1.8) from the Government or the Syndicate or Cash (4.5.2) from 
the Syndicate. It may take place in 1 space that:
•	 Was or will be selected for Terror (3.3.4) this Operation, AND
•	 Is a City, EC, or has an open Casino, AND 
•	 Has more 26July Guerrillas than Police.
PROCEDURE: 26July targets the Syndicate in spaces with open 
Casinos, the Government in Cities or ECs, or selects either in Cities 
with open Casinos. Roll a die and transfer to 26July from the targeted 
Faction a number of Resources equal to the die roll. Any Resources 
transferred to 26July once they hold 49 are lost. If a targeted Faction 
runs out of Resources, no more is transferred. Then close 1 open 
Casino in the selected space (regardless of Faction targeted).
CASH RANSOM: If the targeted Faction has Cash (4.5.2) in the 
space, transfer 1 Cash marker to a 26July Guerrilla there instead of 
rolling for Resources.
4.4 Directorio Special Activities
Directorio may choose from Subvert, Ambush, or Assassi­
nate Special Activities.
4.4.1 Subvert. Subversion earns Resources and/or sets a Province 
to Neutral (representing help with the daily work of locals to turn 
them away from the Government or the more radical 26July). It may 
only accompany Rally or March (3.3.1-.2) and occur in 1 Province 
with DR Control.
PROCEDURE: Add the Province’s Population value to Directorio 
Resources and set the space to Neutral (remove any Support or 
Opposition).
4.4.2 Ambush. Directorio Ambushes the same as 26July (4.3.2) but 
using Directorio instead of 26July forces.
4.4.3 Assassinate. Assassination efficiently neutralizes an enemy 
unit—even a protected Base. It may occur in any 1 space selected 
for Directorio Terror (3.3.4) this Operation in which Directorio 
Guerrillas outnumber Police.
It’s no problem—I’ve got transports, airstrikes and reprisals! 

PROCEDURE: Remove or close (1.4.5) any 1 enemy piece in that 
space.
COMMANDEER: Place any Cash removed (4.5.2) with a Directorio 
Guerrilla in the space.
4.5 Syndicate Special Activities
The Syndicate may choose from Profit, Muscle, or Bribe 
Special Activities.
4.5.1 Profit. Profiting stashes Cash for laundering or exchanges 
Cash or open Casinos for Resources. It may only accompany a 
Rally, March, or Construct Operation (3.3.1-.2, -.5) and may occur 
in any spaces with Syndicate-owned Cash (4.5.2) or open Casinos. 
PROCEDURE: Place 1 available Cash marker (4.5.2) under any 
Guerrilla or cube in each of 1 or 2 spaces with an open Casino. 
Alternatively, close any Casinos desired and remove any Syndi­
cate-owned Cash desired and add +3 Syndicate Resources for each 
Casino closed and Cash marker removed (to a maximum 49). 
DESIGN NOTE: Removal by Profit represents rapid, less efficient 
laundering or liquidation of assets than during the Resource Phase.
4.5.2 Cash Markers. The game uses 4 Cash markers 
to represent major stashes of loot—principally stacks 
of US dollars—awaiting laundering or deposit in the 
United States. The limit on play is 4 Cash markers 
(any others provided are spares). On the map, they are always placed 
beneath a Guerrilla or cube and move with it. That Guerrilla’s or 
cube’s Faction owns the Cash. A piece may hold several Cash 
markers. The owner may transfer the Cash to another Guerrilla or 
cube in the same space at any time (even as the Guerrilla is removed 
or replaced and including to another Faction’s piece). Cash is only 
removed as follows:
•	 If a piece holding Cash is removed, the owner must immediately 
transfer the Cash marker to another Guerrilla or cube or remove it. 
•	 A Faction after executing Operations without a Special Activity 
may remove a Cash marker it owns for a free, extra Limited 
Operation (2.3.6).
•	 During the Resource Phase, all Cash is removed; each marker 
provides the owner either a Base (for Syndicate, an open Casino) 
or +6 Resources (6.2.4).
NOTE: See also Kidnap 4.3.3, Cash Ransom.
4.5.3 Muscle. Muscle relocates the Government’s Police or Troops, 
usually to protect Syndicate Casinos or ECs. It may only accompany 
a Rally, March, or Construct Operation (3.3.1-.2, -.5). The destination 
is 1 space with an open Casino (1.4.4) or 1 EC.
PROCEDURE: Relocate 1 to 2 Police from any spaces to the 
destination if it is a City or 1 to 2 Troops if it is a Province or EC. 
NOTE: Police protect Casinos from Insurgent Attack, Kidnap, and 
Assassination (3.3.3, 4.3.3, 4.4.3); Troops protect Casinos from 
Attack (3.3.3) and ECs from Sabotage (6.2.1).
4.5.4 Bribe. Bribe neutralizes other Factions’ units or exposes or hides 
Guerrillas but costs Resources (1.8). It may occur in any 1 space.
PROCEDURE: Reduce Syndicate Resources –3 and remove up to 
2 cubes there, remove or flip up to 2 Guerrillas there, or remove an 
enemy Base there. NOTE: Bribe is the only Special Activity with a 
Resource cost. Bribe may remove one Guerrilla and flip another.
CONTRABAND: The Syndicate player may transfer any Cash 
removed (4.5.2) by Bribe to any Guerrilla or cube in the space.
5.0 EVENTS
Each Event bears a title, italicized flavor text, and Event text. Flavor 
text is provided for historical interest and has no effect on play. 
5.1 Executing Events
When a Faction executes an Event, it carries out the Event text 
literally (sometimes involving actions or decisions by other Fac­
tions). Unless otherwise specified, the executing Faction makes all 
selections involved in implementing the text, such as which pieces 
are affected.
EXAMPLE: The Government executes the unshaded text of “Eulo­
gio Cantillo”. It would choose the space and which Faction would 
March its Guerrillas. The Marching Faction would then choose the 
March destination.
5.1.1 Where Event text contradicts rules, the Event takes prece­
dence. EXAMPLE: If the Event says that a Faction Ambushes in a 
space, it does so even if all its Guerrillas there are already Active. 
However: 
•	 Events never place pieces that are not available (1.4.1); they 
remove rather than replace if the replacement is not available; 
they close rather than remove Casinos (1.4.5). 
•	 Unless specified (EXAMPLE: “Sinatra”), Events may not violate 
stacking (1.4.2).
•	 Events may not raise either Aid or a Faction’s Resources beyond 
49 (1.8).
•	 Unless specified (EXAMPLE: “Fat Butcher”), Events do not 
allow a Faction to execute an Operation or Special Activity type 
available only to other Factions (3.0, 4.0).
5.1.2 If two Events contradict, the currently played Event takes 
precedence.
5.1.3 If even per the above not all of an executed Event’s text can 
be carried out, implement that which can.
5.2 Dual Use
Many Events have both unshaded and shaded Event text. The 
executing Faction may select either the unshaded or shaded text to 
carry out (not both). A player may select either text option regardless 
of Faction.
NOTE: Shaded text typically favors the Government. Dual-use events 
represent opposed effects of the same cause, forks in the historical 
road, or instances subject to alternative historical interpretation.
Card Number
Faction Order
Title
Lasting Effects Indicator
Italicized Flavor Text
Event Text
Shaded Text
(see Dual Use 5.2)

5.3 Insurgent Capabilities 
Event text with a box marked “Insurgent Capability” 
has lasting effects that either help or hurt one or more 
Insurgent Factions. When executing such an Event, 
place the corresponding marker in the Insurgent Capa­
bilities box. The Event’s effects last for the rest of the game.
5.4 Government Momentum
Event text with a box marked “Government Momentum” has linger­
ing effects that help the Government. When executing such shaded 
text, place the card in view near the Government corner of the board. 
The effects last until the next Propaganda round’s Reset phase (6.5), 
when the card is discarded. NOTE: Any number of Government 
Momentum Events can be in play.
5.5 Free Operations
Some Events allow the Executing or another Faction an immediate 
Operation or Special Activity that interrupts the usual sequence 
of play and is free: it bears no Resource cost and does not affect 
Eligibility (3.1.2, 2.3.1), though other requirements remain unless 
trumped by Event text (5.1.1). 
EXAMPLE: A free Ambush must Activate an Underground Guerrilla 
per 3.3.4 unless Event text specifies otherwise.
6.0 PROPAGANDA ROUNDS
Conduct a Propaganda Round 
in the sequence of phases in 
this section as each Propaganda 
Card is played. The Sequence of 
Play sheet and board also list 
this sequence. 
Exception: Never conduct more 
than 1 Propaganda Round in a 
row (without at least 1 Event 
card in between)—instead, ad­
ditional Propaganda cards are 
played without a Propaganda 
Round. If such an additional 
Propaganda is final (2.4.1), end 
the game and determine victory 
(7.3). 
6.1 Victory Phase
If all of any player’s Factions (or Non-player, 8.0) have met their 
Victory conditions, the game ends. See Victory (7.0) to determine 
winner and rank order. Otherwise, continue with the Propaganda 
Round. After completing the final Propaganda card’s Round (2.4.1), 
determine victory per 7.3.
6.2 Resources Phase
Add to Factions’ Resources per the following sequence, to a max­
imum of 49 (1.8).
6.2.1 Government Earnings. First, Sabotage any ECs where 26July 
plus Directorio Guerrillas outnumber cubes. Then, add the total 
Economic value (1.3.1.3) of ECs that have no Sabotage markers (8 
minus the Econ of Sabotaged ECs) plus Aid.
6.2.2 Insurgent Earnings. Then, add to:
•	 26July—The number of its Bases.
•	 Directorio—The number of spaces where it has pieces.
•	 Syndicate—The Population of each City and the Econ of each 
Unsabotaged EC where Syndicate Guerrillas outnumber Police, 
plus twice the number of open Casinos.
DESIGN NOTE: The Directorio drew more expatriate support 
than the strapped 26July. The Syndicate also represents investment 
interests in Cuba’s non-tourism economy. 
6.2.3 The Skim. For each space with any open Casinos, the Syndi­
cate transfers 2 Resources to the Controlling Faction (if any other 
than Syndicate; any over 49 are lost). If the “Santo” Insurgent 
Capability is in effect (5.3), any Underground Syndicate Guerrilla 
in a space prevents Skim there.
6.2.4 Cash Deposits. 26July, then Directorio, Government, and 
Syndicate remove any Cash (4.5.2) that they own, selecting to 
receive for each marker either an available Base (or open Casino) 
of that Faction at the Cash’s location (within stacking, 1.4.2) or 
+6 Resources. Syndicate may instead open a closed Casino at the 
location. NOTE: Bases placed or Casinos opened at this point can 
affect Control or Game End victory (1.7, 6.3.5, 7.3).
6.3 Support Phase
The US Alliance is tested and Aid adjusted according to its level. 
Then the Government and 26July may spend Resources to affect 
Support and Opposition (1.6).
6.3.1 US Alliance. A US Alliance track shows 1 of 3 
levels. If Total Support (1.6.3) is 18 or less, degrade 
the US Alliance 1 box downward (if possible) and re­
duce Aid by –10 (even if already at Embargoed, to a 
minimum of 0). The US Alliance level affects Government actions 
as follows:
• Firm: The US ships arms and trains the Cuban army. COIN 
Operations (3.2) cost 2 Resources per space (or total, for 
Garrison).
• Reluctant: The US dramatically cuts arms sales and discontinues 
training programs. Scrutiny of the Batista Administration by 
Congress and the US Media is severe. COIN Operations cost 3 
Resources per space (or total, for Garrison).
• Embargoed: The US cuts off arms sales and discourages other 
countries from delivering arms to Cuba; clandestine shipments 
still arrive. COIN Operations cost 4 Resources per space (or total, 
for Garrison). No Air Strikes (4.2.2).
NOTE: Events also can shift US Alliance but adjust Aid only as 
specified in their text. 
6.3.2 Civic Action. Government may spend any number of Resourc­
es to build Support in Govt-Controlled Cities or Provinces (1.7) that 
have both Troops and Police. 
Keep track of the phases of the Propaganda Round 
with the “Prop Card” marker and the Propaganda 
Phase Track

7.0 VICTORY 
Each Faction has unique victory conditions, covered below and on 
the Faction aid sheets.
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
Whenever all of any player’s Factions (or Non-player, 8.0) pass 
a victory check (7.2), or if none does by game end, the Faction 
that reached the highest victory margin (7.3) comes in 1st place, 
2nd-highest comes in 2nd place, and so on. Ties go to Non-players 
(8.0), then Syndicate, then Directorio, then 26July.
7.2 During Propaganda Rounds
Check victory at the start of each Propaganda Round (6.1). Victory 
conditions are:
• Government: All Cities are at Active Support and Total Support 
exceeds 18.
• 26July: Total Opposition plus the number of 26July Bases exceeds 
15.
• Directorio: Total Population in spaces Controlled by Directorio 
(1.7) plus the number of Directorio Bases exceeds 9. 
• Syndicate: Syndicate has more than 7 open Casinos and Re­
sources above 30. 
DESIGN NOTE: The 26July Movement won the Revolution by con­
vincing most Cubans that they were the best choice after Batista’s 
ouster. Had the Directorio controlled more territory, it might have 
offered an alternative to Fidel Castro rather than being co-opted. 
7.3 After Final Propaganda 
If the final Propaganda Round (2.4.1) ends without a victory check 
win (7.2), the player (or Non-player, 8.0) with the highest victory 
margin (below: closest to or furthest beyond its victory condition) 
wins. 
NOTE: The victory margin will be positive if the Faction has reached 
its endgame goal, negative or zero if it has not.
Victory margin:
• Government: Total Support – 18. 
• 26July: Total Opposition + 26July Bases – 15. 
• Directorio: DR-Controlled Population + Directorio Bases – 9.
• Syndicate: Lower of open Casinos – 7 or Syndicate Resources 
– 30.
Victory Deception Option: For less knowledge of how close 
Factions in 3- or 4-player games are to winning, each player at 
start blindly draws 2 Deception markers. Set aside the rest; they 
may not be inspected. Players may reveal any of their Deception 
markers only as they use them:
• Empty Threat: No effect (reveal at game end).
• Hidden Agenda: Permanently add +1 to the holding player’s 
victory margin (7.3).
• Hidden Asset: Convert any 1 LimOp option (2.3.5) into a 
full Op & Special Activity Option.
STOP!
You have read all rules needed for 4 players or the no Non-Player 
option (1.5, recommended if playing the first time).
•	 Every 4 Resources spent 
removes 1 Terror marker 
or—once no Terror is in 
a space—shifts it 1 level 
toward Active Support. (Ad­
just Total Support, 1.6.3.)
DESIGN NOTE: Troops and 
Police together provide the 
security needed to make gains 
in popular support. See also 
Training, 3.2.1.
6.3.3 Agitation. 26July sim­
ilarly may spend Resources 
to encourage Opposition in 
26July-Controlled Cities or 
Provinces (1.7). 
•	 Every 1 Resource spent re­
moves 1 Terror marker or—once no Terror is in a space—shifts 
it 1 level toward Active Opposition. (Adjust Opposition+Bases, 
1.6.3.)
6.3.4 Expat Backing. The Directorio now may free Rally (3.3.1) 
in 1 space with neither Active Support, nor Active Opposition, nor 
Control by any Faction other than DR (it may be Uncontrolled, 1.7). 
(Adjust Control.) 
6.3.5 Game End? If this Propaganda Round is final (2.4.1), the 
game ends. See Victory (7.3). If not, continue with Redeploy and 
Reset. NOTE: The final round omits Redeploy and Reset (6.4-6.5). 
Closed Casinos (1.4.4) will remain closed; Troops will remain in 
Provinces.
6.4 Redeploy Phase
The Government relocates its forces as follows.
6.4.1 The Government may move any Police to any ECs or Govt-
Controlled spaces (1.7). 
6.4.2 The Government must move any Troops on ECs or in Prov­
inces without Government Bases to Govt-Controlled spaces (1.7) 
that either are Cities or have Government Bases (if no such spaces, 
then to Havana City).
6.4.3 The Government may move any other Troops to such Govt-
Controlled Cities or Bases. 
NOTE: The Government may carry out the above steps in any order. 
Adjust Control markers at the end of these Redeployments. 
6.5 Reset Phase
Finally, prepare for the next card as follows:
•	 Mark all Factions Eligible (2.3.1). 
•	 Remove Terror/Sabotage markers (3.3.4). 
•	 Place any played Government Momentum cards onto the played 
cards pile—their Events’ effects no longer apply (5.4). 
•	 Flip all Guerrillas to Underground (1.4.3) and all Casinos to open 
(1.4.4, adjust Open Casinos marker). 
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck and reveal the draw deck’s 
new top card (2.3.8).

8.0 NON-PLAYER FACTIONS
This section modifies the above rules with priorities that govern 
actions by any Factions beyond those represented by a player. The 
Playbook features a 1-Player Example of Play illustrating these rules. 
In games with 4 players or 2 or 3 players and the No Non-Players 
Option (1.5), ignore this entire rules section!
NOTE: Non-player Factions do not act only in their own direct 
interest. Like players, they sometimes help, sometimes hurt, one 
another. 
8.1 Non-Player Sequence of Play
The Sequence of Play aid sheet summarizes the following rules in 
gray text.
• Event or Ops? Except as specified below and in any special Event 
Instructions (8.4.1), a Non-player Faction when given the option 
(2.3.4) chooses the Event. 
• 2nd Eligible. In some games, Non-players choose Operations 
and a Special Activity over Events when 2nd Eligible (2.3.2): 
Syndicate and Government do so when the other of them is a 
player; Directorio and 26July do so when the other of those two 
is a player. 
• Momentum. When any Momentum Event (5.4, including shaded 
“Raúl”) is in effect, Non-player Government chooses Operations 
and a Special Activity.
• Ineffective Events. Non-players only opt for Events that would 
have an effect (something happens, including Capabilities, 5.3) 
and for Momentum Events (5.4) when the next card showing is 
not Propaganda. 
• Operations Not Limited. Whenever a Non-player Faction is to 
execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5), it instead executes a normal 
Operation and (typically) Special Activity. Ignore the Final Event 
Card restriction (2.3.9). 
• Low Resources. When a Non-player Faction is to execute 
Operations but has too few Resources to pay for any in even a 
single non-EC space, it Passes instead (earning Resources, 2.3.3). 
If a Non-player Faction runs out of Resources while executing 
an Operation, it Operates in no further spaces that card (it may 
execute a Special Activity). 
• No Laundering. Non-player Factions may not receive Operations 
from Cash (2.3.6). 
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: Non-player 26July is 1st Eli­
gible for “Resistencia Cívica”. No Cities have Directorio pieces. 
Because the text would have no effect, 26July executes Operations 
and a Special Activity.
8.1.1 Operations, Special Activities, and Events. To execute a 
Non-player Faction’s Operations and Special Activities or a spe­
cific Event, see the Non-Player flow charts and the relevant rules 
below. 
GUIDELINES: Carry out whatever actions apply to the maximum 
extent (such as with the most pieces allowed and only as long as 
needed pieces and Resources are available). Normal Resource costs, 
requirements, and procedures still apply. 
EXAMPLE: Non-Player Terror requires Activating an Underground 
Guerrilla and costs 1 Resource per City or Province, per 3.3.4.
8.1.2 Procedure Guidelines. Unless otherwise specified, once 
spaces involved are selected, Non-player Factions:
•	 Place friendly Bases whenever possible, including with Cash. 
EXCEPTIONS: Government places only 1 Base per Province, 
none in Cities; Syndicate if final Propaganda Round uses Cash 
to open closed Casinos where possible. 
•	 Place Police and Troops as evenly as possible, Police first. 
•	 Place Cash with own Underground Guerrillas before Active 
(4.5.2).
•	 Target or remove enemy players’ before Non-players’ pieces, 
Bases (and Casinos) before other pieces, Police then Troops 
evenly, and Underground before Active Guerrillas; otherwise 
select randomly among enemy Factions. Remove pieces to be 
replaced even if no pieces are available to replace them (1.4.1).
•	 Remove friendly Active before Underground Guerrillas, Troops 
before Police. Transfer Cash about to be removed (4.5.2) to own 
then another Non-player’s piece (Govt, then Syndicate, then DR, 
then 26July), if possible. Voluntarily transfer nothing else.
•	 March so as to end up with as many Underground Guerrillas 
as possible at the destination (3.3.2). Within that priority, move 
Active first. Within those priorities for Guerrillas and in general 
for cubes, move Cash first if to non-EC, last if to EC.
MARCH EXAMPLE: A group of Non-player Guerrillas is to March 
into an otherwise empty space with Support. If any Guerrillas were 
Underground, only 3 of them would move, first those Underground 
and without Cash. 
PLAY NOTE: Players may transfer (1.5.1) to Non-player Factions 
normally.
8.1.3 Reading the Flowcharts. The Second Edition Non-Player 
flowcharts show priorities with circled numbers (e.g., 
) 
and colored letters (e.g., 
) to indicate their order and nature: 
•	 Numbered priorities (e.g., , ) are sequential priorities. Execute 
the instructions in each sequential priority to the maximum extent 
before moving to the next sequential priority (8.3). Some top-level 
sequential priorities (black circles; e.g., 
,) contain further 
sequential priorities (white circles; e.g., 
) that are parts of 
and sequential steps to that top-level priority. 
•	 Lettered priorities (e.g., 
) are nested priorities. Nested 
priorities act as tie breakers within the sequential priorities to 
which they are ordained. Each nested priority further narrows the 
thus-far selected set of spaces or targets. For readability, nested 
priorities have a shaded background. 
8.2 Random Cities and Provinces
If several candidate spaces have equal priority for a Non-player 
Operation, Special Activity, or Event, select a City or Province using 
the Random Spaces table:
•	 Roll the green and yellow dice and refer to the table: green shows 
column, yellow row.
•	 If the resulting space is not a candidate, follow the arrows until 
one is reached, if necessary from Oriente to Havana (or follow 
the arrows on the Random Spaces Map). 
•	 Carry out as much of the action as possible in the candidate 
reached, then roll again to select another, if needed.
NOTE: Players may agree to use an equal-chance die roll to choose 
among a few spaces.
8.3 Random ECs 
If only ECs are candidates, roll on the Random EC table. Sabotage 
only unSabotaged ECs.

8.4 Non-Player Events
NOTE: Events will not always benefit the executing Non-player 
Faction directly.
Halo
8.4.1 Event Instructions. Whenever any Non-player Faction is to 
execute an Event and that Faction’s symbol on the card has a gray 
halo, first check any special instructions for that Event at the bottom 
of that Faction’s sheet. 
8.4.2 Dual Use. Non-player Directorio and 26July executing a 
Dual-Use Event (5.2) use unshaded text, Non-player Syndicate 
and Government use shaded, unless otherwise specified in Event 
Instructions (8.4.1).
8.4.3 Placement. Place, remove, or relocate as many pieces (per 
8.1.2) as the Event, availability (1.4.1), and stacking (1.4.2) allow.
8.4.4 Who and Where. Unless otherwise specified:
•	 When there is a choice of who gets Event benefits (such as placing 
pieces or free Operations), select the executing Faction, then 
another random Non-player Faction.
•	 For free Operations or Special Activities, use that Faction’s 
priorities (8.5-8.8). 
•	 Select Event spaces to ensure that as many Bases and then other 
pieces as possible are placed, removed, or replaced, then for the 
greatest change in Total Support and Opposition. 
•	 Otherwise, select spaces randomly (8.2-.3). 
8.5 Non-Player Syndicate Actions
NOTE: It is not necessary to master the rules below for 
specific Factions because they are summarized on the Non-player 
foldout.
8.5.1 Rally. If Syndicate could Rally to add a Guerrilla to a space 
with a Casino (open or closed) but no Syndicate Guerrillas, Rally:
•	 First place 1 Guerrilla in each space with any Casinos and no 
Syndicate Guerrillas.
•	 Then, in any spaces with an open Casino, a cube, and where 
all Syndicate Guerrillas are Active, flip the Guerrillas Under­
ground.
8.5.2 March. If Rally conditions (8.5.1) are not met and the priori­
ties below would result in a March to an EC or with Cash, instead 
March:
•	 First, with 1 Syndicate Guerrilla each to all ECs that can be reached 
and are empty of pieces, within that, first from spaces with the 
most Syndicate Guerrillas, then from where no open Casino.
•	 Then, if the next Propaganda card will be final (2.4.1), with any 
Guerrillas holding Cash in spaces with no closed Casinos to any 
closed Casinos that they can reach.
8.5.3 Construct. If neither Rally (8.5.1) nor March (8.5.2) conditions 
are met and the number of Available plus Closed Casinos exceeds 
Cash markers out on the map, or if a Terror Operation was selected 
but none of its instructions could be executed, instead Construct 
(where Govt or Syndicate Control):
•	 If Syndicate Resources exceed 35, Construct in 2 spaces, otherwise 
in only 1.
•	 If the next Propaganda card will be the final one (2.4.1), open 
closed Casinos, where Syndicate holds no Cash.
•	 Then, or if the next Propaganda will not be final, place new closed 
Casinos, within that, first with other Casinos.
IF NONE: If no Casinos or fewer than 5 Resources are available, 
instead execute Terror (8.5.4) or, if no Terror possible, Pass.
8.5.4 Terror. If no other Operation’s conditions are met (8.5.1-.2), 
execute Terror (with Underground Guerrillas, 3.3.4):
•	 First, if 26July is a player and at victory (7.2), in 1 space with 
Opposition.
•	 Then, if Government is a player and at victory, in 1 space with 
Support.
•	 If neither applies, in 1 City or Province with either Opposition or 
Support (not Neutral or EC).
Then Bribe per 8.5.5. 
IF NONE: If there are no Underground Syndicate Guerrillas on the 
map, instead Construct (8.5.3) or, if that not possible, Pass.
8.5.5 Special Activities. If Non-player Syndicate executed Rally, 
March, or Construct, next execute Profit if possible per the follow­
ing, otherwise Muscle or, if that not possible, Bribe. If it executed 
Terror, Bribe. 
PROFIT: Place up to 2 Cash markers with Syndicate 
Guerrillas at open Casinos (4.5.1) within that:
•	 Where Syndicate holds no Cash.
•	 Then where no other Faction has pieces.
If no Cash available or no Syndicate Guerrilla is at an open Casino, 
instead Muscle as follows.
MUSCLE: Move 2 cubes (Troops if to Province, Police if to City, 
4.5.3) to a space with an open Casino and 26July Control or, if none, 
DR Control. Take the cubes from a space with the most cubes. If 
there is no such Casino space, instead Bribe as follows.
BRIBE: If it is possible to remove an enemy’s pieces to transfer Cash 
to the Syndicate, pay –3 Syndicate Resources to do so, selecting 
the space and then targeting randomly if several candidates. If not, 
remove 26July then DR piece(s) (Base first, 8.1.2) from a space with 
an open Casino. If there are none, instead remove 26July then DR 
piece(s) from a space with any Syndicate piece (EC last, 8.2-.3). 
If the “Mafia Offensive” Capability is in effect (5.3), if possible 
Assassinate in a Terror space (per 8.1.2) instead of Bribing, using 
the same priorities. If none of that is possible or if the Syndicate has 
too few Resources, execute no Special Activity.
8.6 Non-Player Directorio Actions
8.6.1 Terror. If Directorio could execute Terror in a space 
at either Active Support or Active Opposition or Assassinate to re­
move a Government Base, Terror in these spaces (with Underground 
Directorio Guerrillas per 3.3.4):
•	 First, where Active Support.
•	 Then, where Active Opposition.

•	 Finally, at 1 (other) Assassination target, within that, first a Gov­
ernment Base, then any player’s Base, then any other target.
ASSASSINATE: Then Assassinate in a space where Terror occurred 
and Directorio Guerrillas outnumber Police (4.4.2). Select the space 
and target to remove a Base or close a Casino if possible, then to take 
Cash, then some other piece. Within that, first target the Government 
(Police before Troops, 8.1.2), then any player, then any Non-player.
•	 If there is no such space or no suitable target, execute no Special 
8.6.2 Rally. If Terror conditions are not met and Directorio has at 
least 6 Guerrillas available or would place a Base with Rally, Rally 
in these (Neutral or Passive) Provinces or Cities (3.3.1):
•	 First, in any with Directorio Guerrillas all of which are Active, a 
Directorio Base, and any cubes, flip the Guerrillas Underground.
•	 Then, in others with at least 3 Directorio Guerrillas and room for 
a DR Base (1.4.2), replace 2 Guerrillas with a Base.
•	 Then place Guerrillas in any others with Directorio Bases (Pop­
ulation plus Bases, 3.3.1), then with other DR Guerrillas, and 
finally in 1 other (random) City or Province.
SUBVERT: Then Subvert (in a Province with DR Control, 4.4.1).
•	 If 26July is at victory (7.2), in a Province to remove the most 
Opposition possible.
•	 If not, to remove the most Support possible.
•	 If neither possible, in a highest Population Province, within that, 
first in a Neutral Province.
•	 If no Provinces are DR-Controlled, Directorio executes no Special 
IF NONE: If Rally is not possible (all Population is at Active Sup­
port or Opposition), March. 
EXPAT BACKING: During the Support Phase, free Rally (6.3.4) to 
place Guerrillas to gain DR Control of the most Population possible, 
a Base if none, or Guerrillas at random if not possible.
8.6.3 March. If neither Terror nor Rally conditions (8.6.1-.2) are 
met and there is no space with DR Guerrillas where removing 1 or 2 
enemy pieces would add DR Control, or a Rally or Attack Operation 
was selected but none of its instructions could be executed, March 
as follows without removing DR Control or the last DR Guerrilla 
from any origin space (and per 8.1.2):
•	 First, with just as many DR Guerrillas as needed to add DR 
Control to the highest Population City or Province possible, first 
from spaces with the most DR Guerrillas.
•	 Then, from 1 space with most DR Guerrillas who could move but 
have yet to do so, to a space closer to Havana (including Havana).
•	 If the “Morgan” Capability is in effect (5.3), March from within 
2 spaces.
Then Subvert per 8.6.2.
IF NONE: If such March possible, Attack. 
8.6.4 Attack. If neither Terror nor Rally conditions (8.6.1-2) are met 
and DR Guerrillas could Attack to remove 1 or 2 enemy pieces from 
a space to add DR Control (NOTE: DR could not Attack 26July if 
“Pact of Caracas” in effect), or a March Operation was selected 
but none of its instructions could be executed, instead Attack in up 
to 3 spaces (with an enemy, 3.3.3):
•	 Attack using Ambush in just 1 space where at least 1 Underground 
Directorio Guerrilla (if able).
•	 Then Attack in additional spaces with at least 4 DR Guerrillas 
total.
•	 Among spaces above and, once the spaces are selected, within each 
space, target enemies so as to take any Cash (target Non-players 
only if they could not transfer the Cash to another Non-player per 
8.1.2), within that, first any player at victory (7.2), within that, 
first Government, within that, first Syndicate, lastly 26July (per 
8.1.2).
AMBUSH: Ambush (per 4.4.1, with an Underground Directorio 
Guerrilla) in the first Attack space selected above (against the 
Attack target).
•	 If none has an Underground DR Guerrilla, Directorio executes 
no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Attack can target appropriate pieces, March 
instead (8.6.3) or, if no such March possible, Pass.
8.6.5 Caracas. If the “Pact of Caracas” Capability is in effect (5.3), 
26July is a player and meeting its victory condition (7.2), and DR 
has at least 2 Bases while executing an Operation or Event, remove 
2 DR Bases from random space(s) to cancel “Caracas” (1.4.1).
8.7 Non-Player 26July Actions 
8.7.1 Terror. If 26July could execute any Terror that enables 
Kidnap, Sabotage, or a shift in Support/Opposition, do so (with 
Underground 26July Guerrillas, 3.3.4):
•	 First, in 1 space where Kidnap against a Faction with Cash or more than 
0 Resources would be possible (where 26July Guerrillas outnumber 
Police, 4.3.3)—first an EC, then a City, then at an open Casino. 
•	 Then at all other unSabotaged ECs.
•	 Then in each City and Province that is at Support or Neutral.
•	 Then, if “Pact of Caracas” is not in effect (5.3), in each other space 
at Passive Opposition.
KIDNAP: Then Kidnap (4.3.3) in a space selected for Terror:
•	 Take Cash if possible. 
•	 Otherwise, target a Faction with more than zero Resources, 
Government if possible, then Syndicate.
•	 If the “Raúl” Capability (5.3) is in effect, reroll a Kidnap roll of 
“1” or “2” (only).
•	 If Terror spaces have no Kidnap targets, 26July executes no Spe­
cial Activity.
IF NONE: If the only Terror shift would be at Passive Opposition 
without “Caracas”, Rally.
8.7.2 Rally. If no such effective Terror possible (8.7.1) and 26July 
has at least 6 Guerrillas available or could Rally to place a Base, or 
a Terror Operation was selected but none of its instructions could 
be executed, Rally in Provinces and Cities (without Support, 3.3.1): 
•	 First, in any with 26July Guerrillas all of which are Active, a 
26July Base, and any cubes, flip the Guerrillas Underground.
•	 Then, wherever at least 3 26July Guerrillas and room for a 26July 
Base (1.4.2), replace 2 Guerrillas with a Base.
•	 Then place Guerrillas wherever 26July Bases, then with other 
26July Guerrillas, and finally in 1 (random) City or Province.
•	 If “The Guerrilla Life” in effect (5.3), combine flipping and 
placement wherever possible.

INFILTRATE: Then Infiltrate (a space with a cube, without Support, 
and with or adjacent to an Underground 26July Guerrilla, 4.3.1).
•	 At an EC, if possible.
•	 Within that or if not possible, to take Cash, if possible.
•	 Within that, to remove the last Police cube from a space, if 
possible.
•	 Within that, in a random space.
•	 If there is no space to Infiltrate, 26July executes no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If Rally is not possible (all Cities and Provinces have 
Support), instead March. 
8.7.3 March. If neither Terror nor Rally conditions (8.7.1-.2) are 
met and no space has 4 or more 26July Guerrillas and a Government 
piece, or a Rally Operation was selected but none of its instructions 
could be executed, March, without removing the last 26July Guerrilla 
from any space (or violating 8.1.2): 
•	 First, to get 1 Underground 26July Guerrilla onto each EC possible 
that has none.
•	 Then, into 1 Govt-Controlled space, first 1 with Support, with 
Guerrillas from all adjacent Opposition spaces and ECs.
•	 If the “El Che” Capability (5.3) is in effect, reverse the above 
order.
•	 Then, from 1 space with the most 26July Guerrillas who could 
move but have yet to do so, to a space closer to Havana City 
(including into Havana).
Then Infiltrate per 8.7.2.
IF NONE: If no such March possible, Attack. 
8.7.4 Attack. If neither Terror nor Rally (8.7.1-.2) conditions are met 
and there is a space with at least 4 26July Guerrillas and a cube, or 
a March Operation was selected but none of its instructions could 
be executed, Attack (with 26July Guerrillas in spaces with enemy 
pieces, 3.3.3). 
•	 First in 1 City or Province with an Underground 26July Guerrilla 
(that is, where 26July could then Ambush). 
•	 Then wherever 4 or more 26July Guerrillas.
•	 For all Attack spaces above, select first a space with an enemy 
from which 26July could take Cash. The or within that, to Attack 
Government pieces, within that, to remove Control of the space 
from a player (not Non-player) Faction.
•	 If the “Raúl” Capability (5.3) is in effect, reroll all failed Attacks 
(only).
AMBUSH: Ambush (per 4.3.2, with an Underground 26July Guer- 
rilla as part of the Attack) in the first Attack space selected above.
•	 If none has an Underground 26July Guerrilla, execute no Special 
IF NONE: If no such Attack can target Cash or Government pieces, 
Pass.
8.7.5 Agitate. Non-player 26July Agitates (6.3.3) to the maximum 
extent possible. If 26July has too few Resources to Agitate every­
where, it Agitates first where highest Population, then where Support, 
then where fewest Terror markers, then randomly. Remove Terror 
only if a shift would be achieved.
8.7.6 Caracas. If the “Pact of Caracas” Capability is in effect (5.3), 
the DR is a player and meeting its victory condition (7.2), and 26July 
has at least 2 Bases while executing an Operation or Event, remove 
2 26July Bases from random space(s) to cancel “Caracas” (1.4.1).
8.8 Non-Player Government Actions
8.8.1 Momentum. If any of the following Momentum 
Events are in effect (5.4), a Non-player Government first follows 
these priorities:
• Armored Cars. Always Assault if it would be possible to remove 
a 26July Base or any 4 or more Guerrillas, moving Troops by 
Sweep priorities, disregarding adjacency.
• Sánchez Mosquera. Always Assault if it would be possible 
to remove a 26July Base or any 4 or more Guerrillas from 
Mountain.
• Rolando Masferrer. Unless already executing Assault, Sweep 
and free Assault if it would be possible to remove a 26July Base 
or Activate 4 or more Guerrillas.
• S.I.M. If Sweeping (8.8.4), instead of first doing so where cubes, 
do so first where no cubes and, if into a space, take in half (rounded 
up) Police, half Troops.
• Guantánamo Bay. If a Government Operation just undertaken 
could add an Air Strike to remove 2 pieces, do so.
8.8.2 Train. If any space with a Government Base or any City lacks 
either Govt Control, Troops, or Police, Train in spaces costing up 
to 9 Resources:
•	 Until there are fewer than 4 cubes available, place 4 cubes (per 
8.1.2) in each City and Government Base space, first where there 
is no Govt Control, then where there are no Police, then where 
there are no Troops.
•	 Then, in 1 Province that has at least 2 cubes, no Government 
Base, and room to place one, replace 2 Troops then Police with 
a Base.
•	 Finally, if no Base was placed, buy Civic Action in a Training space 
where a Civic Action shift is possible (6.3.2) for the greatest shift 
possible, without dropping Government Resources below 9.
NOTE: Non-player Government will Train, Sweep, or Assault up to 
4 spaces at a time when the US Alliance is Firm (6.3.1), 3 spaces 
when Reluctant, 2 spaces when Embargoed.
TRANSPORT: Then Transport up to 3 Troops from a City with 
Govt Control and the most Troops beyond those needed for Con­
trol. Transport them to a Province that has Police but no Troops; if 
none, to a space that has more Active Guerrillas than Troops; or, 
if no such space, to a City or Province where another Faction has 
Control and would lose it with the arrival of the Troops; finally, to 
add Government Control where no Faction has Control.
•	 If not possible, execute no Special Activity.
IF NONE: If no such Train possible, Garrison.
8.8.3 Garrison. If the total of 26July and DR Guerrillas at an EC ei­
ther include Underground or exceed cubes there, or a Train Operation 
was selected but none of its instructions could be executed, Garrison. 
Move Police then Troops to equal Guerrillas at all ECs, then to add 
Govt Control or a Police or Troop to any Cities without. Take each 
cube from a space with the most of that type, without removing 
the last Police from any. Assault to remove the most 26July pieces.

AIR STRIKE: Then Air Strike, if possible to remove a Base or close 
a Casino, then to remove a Guerrilla from a space with at least 1 
cube, and then, to remove a Faction’s last Guerrilla from a space. 
Within all the above, target first a player at victory, then 26July, then 
DR, and then or within that, strike targets in Provinces before ECs. 
If Embargoed (6.3.1) or there is no such Air Strike target, instead 
execute Reprisal as follows.
REPRISAL: Execute Reprisal to move a Guerrilla where needed 
and able to expose to accompanying Assault the Base of any player 
who is at victory (7.2), then of 26July, then of the DR (only, without 
preventing any adjacent Base from suffering Assault). Otherwise ex­
ecute Reprisal to shift the highest Population space with Opposition 
able (and move a Guerrilla from there, 4.2.3). Among Guerrillas, 
choose Underground first, to a Neutral or Opposition space if pos­
sible. If no such target space, instead Transport per 8.8.2.
IF NONE: If no such Garrison possible, Sweep.
8.8.4 Sweep. If Garrison conditions (8.8.3) are not met and no 26July 
or DR Base nor a total of 3 or more Guerrillas would be removed by 
Assault (alone), or a Garrison Operation was selected but none of its 
instructions could be executed, Sweep spaces for up to 9 Resources:
•	 Select Sweep spaces to Activate Underground 26July or DR 
Guerrillas, first at Support, then in Havana City, then where there 
are already cubes, then elsewhere.
•	 Also move in up to the Troops needed to Activate all Guerrillas 
able and (if not already Govt Controlled) take Control, but without 
losing Govt Control of any origin spaces.
•	 Activate all Guerrillas able in the above Sweep spaces, starting 
with those of any players at victory (7.2), then 26July, then DR, 
then Syndicate.
Then execute a Special Activity per 8.8.3 (Air Strike, Reprisal, or 
Transport).
IF NONE: If no such Sweep possible, Assault.
8.8.5 Assault. If Train and Garrison conditions (8.8.2-.3) are not 
met and Assault with a Special Activity would add Govt Control 
or remove a 26July or Directorio Base or at least 3 Guerrillas, or a 
Sweep Operation was selected but none of its instructions could be 
executed, select spaces costing up to 9 Resources to Assault:
•	 First execute a Special Activity per 8.8.3 (Air Strike, Reprisal, or 
Transport).
•	 Then, if and only if the Syndicate is a player and meeting its 
victory conditions (7.2), Assault to close all Casinos able.
•	 Finally, Assault in spaces to remove the most 26July or DR Bases 
able, then to take any Cash possible, then to remove the most 
Guerrillas possible. Within these priorities, select spaces first to 
target 26July then DR then Syndicate.
IF NONE: If neither any such Assault nor Special Activity is pos­
sible, Pass. (If Government executed a Special Activity but cannot 
Assault per above, pay for Assault in one space without removing 
pieces, to enable the Special Activity per 4.1.).
8.8.6 Propaganda Civic Action. During the Support Phase, buy 
all Civic Action (6.3.2) for the greatest shift in Opposition and 
Support possible without dropping Government Resources below 
9. EXCEPTION: In the final Propaganda Round (2.4.1), do so even 
if Resources drop below 9.
8.8.7 Redeploy. Redeploy (6.4) only: 
•	 Police to ECs to equal 26July Guerrillas there; then to Provinces 
where Troops are about to Redeploy out, up to the number of 
Police needed to keep Control (including after Reset opens any 
closed Casinos); then 1 each to Cities and Government Bases 
with no Police. Take each Police from the space with the most 
Police without losing any Control or removing the last Police 
from anywhere.
•	 Troops to distribute them as evenly as possible without losing any 
Govt Control.
8.9 1-Player Victory
The player in a 1-player game (26July or Government) never wins 
during Propaganda Rounds (7.2). To succeed, the player must avoid 
any Non-player win and have the highest victory margin (7.3) after 
the final Round. If not, the Non-player with the highest margin (ties 
to Syndicate, then Directorio, then 26July) wins Cuba:
• If Syndicate—Viva Lansky! The Revolution is flickering out, as 
is any semblance of Cuban sovereignty. Mob establishments span 
the island. US law enforcement interest is intense, but the Cuban 
dictatorship, US-owned businesses, and organized crime are 
increasingly intertwined and their ability to defend their gangster 
paradise interlocking. 
• If Directorio—Student Revolution! People flock to the DR 
banner, draining the Army and the 26July of fighters. Supporters 
of the old regime flee, the Castros are hunted down as suspected 
Soviet agents, and the United States recognizes the new 
revolutionary government as representative of Cubans. 
• If Non-Player 26July—Castro Triumph! Collecting the disparate 
anti-regime forces around him, Fidel drives the old regime from 
the island, then turns on and hunts down any and all competing 
rebels. A very different Cuban dictatorship is at hand. 
• If Non-Player Government—Rearguard Ascent! The Revolution 
has failed. The population loses hope in the hapless rebels and 
helps the Army and Police hunt them down. The Mob stays in 
Cuba but learns its place. The Castros return to prison—there will 
be no conciliatory release this time. 
PLAYER VICTORY: If the player does survive to the final Round 
with the highest victory margin, subtract the highest Non-player 
margin from the player’s to find the degree of success: 
•	 1 to 4—Stalemate! The battle for the island will be all out. 
A prolonged Cuban Civil War is drawing increasing US 
consideration of military intervention. 
•	 5 or more, Player as Government—Model Counterinsurgency! 
Against the odds, the Cuban dictatorship has shown how to 
fight insurrection and foreign infiltration. Other Latin American 
regimes study the success. 
•	 5 or more, Player as 26July—Model Rebellion! The Castro-Gue­
vara insurgent strategy has succeeded in Cuba’s divided society. 
Leftists look to Cuba as mid-wife to revolution in Latin America 
and beyond. 
EXAMPLE: A solo 26July player avoids Non-player victory over 4 
Propaganda Rounds. At game end, with 6 DR-Controlled Population 
and 2 Directorio Bases on the map, DR has a –1 victory margin—the 
highest of the Non-players. Total Opposition is 12 and 26July has 
4 Bases out, so the player’s victory margin is +1: 2 above DR’s for 
a “Stalemate”. 

KEY TERMS INDEX 
26July—An Insurgent Faction (Movimiento 
26 de Julio: the 26July Movement or M26, 
led by Fidel Castro). (1.0, 1.5)
Accompanying—Operation required for 
Special Activity. (4.1.1)
Activate—Flip or leave Guerrilla Active. 
(1.4.3)
Active—Guerrilla symbol up: vulnerable to 
Assault or Air Strike (1.4.3); population in 
open Support or Opposition (1.6.1).
Agitate—26July Propaganda action to add 
Opposition. (6.3.3)
Aid—Foreign assistance that adds Govern­
ment Resources during Propaganda or by 
Event.(1.8, 6.2.1)
Air Strike—Government Special Activity to 
remove an enemy. (4.2.2)
Ambush—26July/Directorio Special Activity 
ensuring Attack success. (4.3.2, 4.4.2)
Attack—Insurgent Operation that removes 
enemy pieces. (3.3.3)
Assassinate—Directorio Special Activity to 
remove an enemy. (4.4.3)
Assault—Government Operation that re­
moves enemy pieces. (3.2.4)
Available—Force pieces in holding boxes 
that may be placed. (1.4.1)
Base—Mostly immobile force pieces that 
affect Rally, Resources, and Victory, among 
other functions. (1.4)
Bases Last—Frequent requirement that a 
Faction have no cubes or Guerrillas in a 
space before removing its Bases. (3.2.4, 
3.3.3, 4.2.2)
Bribe—Syndicate Special Activity that re­
moves or flips pieces. (4.5.2)
Campaign—Event card series leading up to 
a Propaganda Round. (2.4.1)
Captured Goods—Place Guerrilla or take 
Cash via Attack. (3.3.3) 
Cash—Marker representing stacks of US 
dollar profits awaiting deposit or laundering. 
(4.5.2, 6.2.4)
Cash Ransom—Take Cash via Kidnap. 
(4.3.3) 
Casino—Syndicate Base with special as­
pects. (1.4.4-.5)
City—Urban-area space. (1.3.1)
Civic Action—Government action to in­
crease Support. (3.2.1, 6.3.2)
Closed—Casino temporarily unavailable to 
the Syndicate. (1.4.4)
COIN (Counterinsugency)—Government 
Operations. (3.2)
Commandeer—Take Cash via Infiltrate or 
Assassinate. (4.3.1, 4.4.3) 
Construct—Syndicate Operation to add or 
open Casinos. (3.3.5)
Contraband—Take Cash via Bribe. (4.5.4) 
Control—Possession by a Faction of more 
pieces in a City or Province than all enemies 
combined. (1.7)
Cost—Resources for an Op. (3.1)
Cylinder—Token to mark a Faction’s Re­
sources or Eligibility (1.8, 2.2)
Cube—Troops or Police piece. (1.4)
Deception—Optional victory markers. 
(7.3)
Directorio—An Insurgent Faction (Directo­
rio Revolucionario Estudiantil or DR: the Stu­
dent Revolutionary Directorate). (1.0, 1.5)
DR—Short for the Directorio Faction (Direc­
torio Revolucionario).
DR Pop + Bases—Total Population with DR 
Control plus number of Directorio Bases on 
the map. (1.6.3, 1.7, 7.2—.3)
Dual Use—Event with 2 alternative effects. 
(5.2)
EC—Economic Center: Zones of com­
mercial activity that generate Government 
Resources. (1.3.1.3)
Economic Value (Econ)—Resources that an 
unSabotaged EC will provide Government 
each Propaganda Round. (1.3.1.3, 6.2.1) 
Eligible—Faction able execute Event or 
Operation: per Faction order, 1st and 2nd 
Eligible. (2.3.1—.2)
Embargoed—Bottom US Alliance level. 
(6.3.1)
Enemy—Assets of another Faction than the 
executing Faction. (1.5)
Eradicate—Government Special Activity 
to remove rural Syndicate Bases and add 
Aid. (4.2.3)
Event—Card with Faction order and text a 
Faction may execute. (2.3, 5.0)
Expat Backing—Support Phase Directorio 
free Rally. (6.3.4)
Execute—Implement Event or conduct Op­
eration or Special Activity. (2.3)
Faction—Player or Non-Player role: Govern­
ment, 26July, Directorio, Syndicate. (1.5)
Faction Order—Card symbols that deter­
mine 1st and 2nd Eligible. (2.3.2)
Final—4th Propaganda card’s round, game 
end. (2.4.1, 6.3.5, 7.3)
Firm—Top US Alliance level. (6.3.1)
Flip—Switch Guerrilla between Under­
ground /Active or Casino between open/
closed. (1.4.3, 1.4.4)
Forces—Troops, Police, Guerrillas, or Bases, 
including Casinos (pieces). (1.4)
Forest—Province type that hinders Sweep. 
(1.3.1, 3.2.3)
Free—Operation or Special Activity via 
Event or Shipping that does not cost Resourc­
es or affect Eligibility. (2.3.6, 3.1.2, 5.5)
Friendly—Assets of the executing Faction.
Garrison—Government Operation to Protect 
ECs. (4.2.2)
Government (Govt)—The non-Insurgent 
Faction. (1.0, 1.5)
Government Momentum—Events whose 
shaded portion stays in effect until next Pro­
paganda Round. (5.4)
Grassland—Province type that does not 
hinder Operations. (1.3.1)
Guerrilla—Mobile Insurgent forces piece. 
(1.4)
Halo—Card Faction symbol showing Non-
player has an Event instruction. (8.4.1)
Ineligible—Faction skipped in determining 
Faction order. (2.3.1-.2)
Infiltrate—26July Special Activity that re­
places cubes with Guerrillas. (4.3.1)
Insurgent—26July, Directorio, or Syndicate 
Faction. (1.0)
Insurgent Capabilities—Enduring event 
effects that help or hinder Insurgent actions. 
(5.3)
Kidnap—26July Special Activity that trans­
fers Resources. (4.3.3)
Launder—Deposit Cash and use proceeds 
for an operation. (2.3.6)

Level—Support/Opposition or US Alliance 
status. (1.6.1, 6.3.1)
Limited Operation—A player Operation 
in just 1 (destination) space and no Special 
Activity. (2.3.5)
M26—26July: Movimiento 26 de Julio.
March—Insurgent Operation that moves 
Guerrillas. (3.3.2)
Mountain—Province type that hinders As­
sault. (1.3.1, 3.2.4)
Muscle—Syndicate Special Activity to relo­
cate cubes. (4.5.3)
Neutral—Space not in Support nor Opposi­
tion. (1.6.1)
Non-Player—Faction controlled by the 
game. (1.5, 8.0)
Open—Casino doing business on the Syndi­
cate’s behalf. (1.4.4)
Open Casinos—Total number of open 
Casinos on the map. (1.4.4, 1.6.3, 6.2.4, 
7.2—.3)
Operation (Op)—Core action Faction per­
forms with its forces. (3.0)
Opposition—A space’s population against 
the Government. (1.6)
Opposition + Bases—Total Opposition plus 
the number of 26July Bases on the map. 
(1.6.3, 7.2-.3)
Pass—Decline to execute an Event or Opera­
tion when Eligible. (2.3.3)
Passive—City or Province in reserved Sup­
port or Opposition. (1.6.1)
Phase—Segment of a Propaganda Round. 
(6.0)
Piece (Force unit)—Troop or Police cube, 
Guerrilla, or Base (not a marker like Cash). 
(1.4)
Place—Move a piece or Cash from Available 
to map. (1.4.1)
Police—Government forces that maintain 
rural control and hinder crime. (1.4)
Population (Pop)—Representation of the 
populace of a Province or City, about 1 mil­
lion people per point. (1.3.1.1—.2)
Priorities—Rules guiding Non-player Fac­
tions. (8.0)
Profit—Syndicate Special Activity to stack 
Cash or liquidate Casino. (4.5.1)
Propaganda (Prop)—Cards triggering 
Rounds of the same name that include victory 
checks, Resource acquisition, and several 
other periodic functions. (2.4, 6.0)
Province—Type of space representing rural 
areas. (1.3.1)
Rally—Insurgent Operation to place or re­
group pieces. (3.3.1)
Redeploy—Move Government cubes during 
the Propaganda Round. (6.4)
Reluctant—A US Alliance level. (6.3.1)
Remove—Take from the map (for forces, to 
Available). (1.4.1)
Replace—Exchange pieces between Avail­
able and map. (1.4.1) Replacing an open Ca­
sino instead closes it and places the replacing 
piece. (1.4.5)
Reprisal—Government Special Activity to 
place Terror, shift toward Neutral, and dis­
place Guerrilla. (4.2.3) 
Reset—Final Propaganda phase to prepare 
for next card. (6.5)
Resources—Factions’ wherewithal for Op­
erations and other actions. (1.8)
Sabotage—Place a Sabotage marker on 
an EC that does not have one, temporarily 
damaging it to block addition of Government 
Resources. (3.3.4, 6.2)
Seizure—Take Cash via Assault. (3.2.4) 
Select—Choose locations or targets of ac­
tions. (3.1, 3.1.1, 4.1, 5.1)
Set—Shift a space’s Support/Opposition to a 
prescribed level. (1.6.1)
Shaded—2nd text choice of Dual-Use Event, 
often pro-Government. (5.2)
Shift—Change a space’s Support/Opposi­
tion level or the level of US Alliance. (1.6.1, 
6.3.1)
Skim—Forced Transfer of Resources be­
tween the Syndicate and other Factions. 
(6.2.3)
Space—Map area that holds pieces in play: 
Province, City, EC. (1.3.1)
Special Activities—Actions accompanying 
Operations, most cost—free and unique to a 
Faction. (4.0)
Stacking—Limits on pieces occupying a 
space. (1.4.2)
Standard Deployment—Option with pre-
determined set up of forces. (2.1)
Subvert—Directorio Special Activity to set 
a Province to Neutral and gain Resources. 
(4.4.1)
Support—A space’s population favoring the 
Government. (1.6)
Sweep—Government Operation to move 
Troops into a space and flip Guerrillas Ac­
tive. (3.2.3)
Syndicate—An Insurgent Faction: mobsters. 
(1.0, 1.5)
Target—Enemy Faction or piece that is the 
object of an Operation, Special Activity, or 
Event. (3.1, 4.1)
Terror—Insurgent Op that places marker of 
same name in City or Province or Sabotage 
on EC. (3.3.4)
Total Opposition—Passive Opposition 
Population plus twice Active Opposition 
Population. (1.6.3)
Total Support—Passive Support Popula­
tion plus twice Active Support Population. 
(1.6.3)
Town—Map feature for flavor (not a space). 
(1.3.3)
Train—Govt Operation to place pieces and 
conduct Civic Action. (3.2.1)
Transfer—Give Resources or Cash to an­
other Faction. (1.5.1)
Transport—Government Special Activity 
that moves Troops. (4.2.1)
Troops—Mobile Government forces special­
izing in Sweep and rural Assault. (1.4)
Uncontrolled—A City or Province where 
no Faction has more pieces than all others 
combined. (1.7)
Underground—Guerrilla, symbol end down: 
not subject to Assault or Air Strike and ca­
pable of Terror or Ambush. (1.4.3)
Unshaded—1st text choice of Dual-Use 
Event. (5.2)
US Alliance (Alliance)—Track showing 
current level of US assistance to the Govern­
ment. (6.3.1)
Variable Deployment—Option with open 
set up of player forces. (2.1)
Victory Margin—Calculation, unique to a 
Faction, of closeness to its victory condi­
tion. (7.3)

SET UP (2.1)
General
Agree on Standard or Variable Deployment (below) and any no 
Non-player (1.5), short game (2.1), Sudden Propaganda (2.3.8), 
or Deception (7.3), options. Give each player a Faction foldout 
and assign each a Faction:
	 1-player—26July or Government. 
	 2-player—26July and Government.
	 3-player—26July, Government, and either Directorio or 
Syndicate.
	 4-player—A Faction each.
Deck Preparation
Separate out the 4 Propaganda cards and shuffle the 48 Event 
cards. If using the short game option, randomly set aside 8 Event 
cards—they may not be inspected and will not be used. Split 
remaining Event cards into 4 roughly (or, if desired, exactly) 
equal piles. Shuffle 1 Propaganda card into each pile and stack 1 
pile onto the other to form a face-down draw deck in easy view 
of all players.
Standard Deployment
Markers:
• US Alliance: Firm
• Aid: 15
• Resources: Government 15; Syndicate 15; 26July 10; 
Directorio 5. 
• Eligible Factions: All
• Total Support: 16
• Opposition + Bases: 7
• Directorio Population + Bases: 1
• Open Casinos: 3 
• Active Support: Pinar del Río, Havana (City).
• Passive Support: La Habana (Province), Camagüey (City).
• Passive Opposition: Matanzas, Camagüey (Province), 
Oriente.
• Active Opposition: Sierra Maestra.
(Las Villas and Santiago de Cuba are Neutral.)
Control
•	 Govt—Havana (City), Camagüey (City), Santiago de Cuba, 
Las Villas.
•	 26July—Sierra Maestra.
•	 Directorio—Camagüey (Province).
•	 Syndicate—Pinar del Río.
Government Forces
•	 Havana (City): 6 Troops, 4 Police. 
•	 Camagüey (City): 1 Troop, 2 Police.
•	 Santiago de Cuba: 2 Troops, 2 Police.
•	 Las Villas: 3 Troops. 
26July Forces
•	 La Habana (Province): 1 Guerrilla. 
•	 Sierra Maestra: 2 Guerrillas, 1 Base.
•	 Santiago de Cuba: 1 Guerrilla. 
Directorio Forces
•	 Havana (City): 2 Guerrillas.
•	 Camagüey (Province): 1 Guerrilla. 
Syndicate Forces
•	 Havana (City): 1 Casino. 
•	 La Habana (Province): 1 Casino.
•	 Pinar del Río: 1 Casino.
Variable Deployment
First set up all markers and Non-player forces as above except 
Control. Then set up player forces in the following order:
•	 Syndicate—3 Casinos, 1 each in any space.
•	 Directorio—3 Guerrillas anywhere.
•	 26July—4 Guerrillas and 1 Base anywhere free of Directorio 
forces, only 1 Guerrilla per City.
•	 Government—9 Troops and 8 Police among any Cities, 3 
Troops in any 1 Province.
Then mark Control.
GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
AVAILABLE FORCES
(Total, before set up)
	 	
Government	
26July	
Directorio	 Syndicate
 Troops	
 Police	
 Guerrillas	
6 x
 Bases	
2 x	
 4 x	
 4 x	
 10 x