Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 CUTTHROAT CAVERNS
	
(plus Expansions 1, 2 & 3)
Pub: 	
Smirk & Dagger Games (2007)
Page 1: 	 Rules summary front
Page 1: 	 Rules summary back
Page 1: 	 Player reference card
v1
May 2009
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
For best results, print on card, laminate and trim to size.

Setup
Shuffle Initiative cards equal to the number of players (remove high cards first) 
and fan them face down on the table. Shuffle the remaining cards and place 
them facedown on the table as the draw deck. Each player draws 7 cards as 
their starting hand. Shuffle the Encounter cards and deal 9 facedown on the 
table to form the Encounter deck.
Each player takes a Character Character Sheet and places a green bead on 
the 100 Life Points number. Place the Monster Life Tracker on the table. 
One yellow bead tracks the Life Points of creatures, while another tracks the 
number of Encounters faced.
Sequence of Play
1. Begin a New Encounter
a. Reveal the top card of the Encounter deck 
One player reads the card aloud. Place a yellow bead on the Monster Life 
Tracker equal to its starting Life Points (depending on the number of 
players that started the game).
Players take any Potions they wish to use before or during this encounter.
Draw Initiative. Each player draws an Initiative card and places it faceup 
beside their character sheet.
2. Combat Round
a. 	Set Attack Cards
Each player places 1 Attack card facedown in front of them (it may be 
changed before the first Attack card is revealed, but never after).
If you have no Attack cards, set an Action card as a bluff; it is discarded 
without effect when revealed. A set Attack card not played for any reason 
is discarded at the end of the round.
b. 	Player Turns
Each player takes a turn in order of their Initiative, starting with Player 1. 
On a player’s turn he flips his set Attack card and inflicts damage or follows 
the rules on the card. Place successfully played Attack cards in a damage 
stack beside the Encounter card so the top-most damage number of all 
cards is visible.
When facing a token-based encounter, spread out the tokens and have 
players place their Attack cards on the specific token they wish to hit. 
Unless otherwise noted, only the last token qualifies for bonus Prestige in 
a Bonus Round. 
Check to see if the player has killed the creature or completed the 
encounter after each Attack card is played. If not, the next player in 
Initiative order takes his turn. When all players have had a turn, the party’s 
combat round is over.
c. 	Total Attack Damage
Total the damage of the Attack cards in the damage stack and adjust the 
creature’s Life Points on the Monster Life Tracker. If the creature is not 
killed, it may attack or act according to the rules on the Encounter card.
d. 	Specific Creature Attacks
Consult the rules and Attack Matrix on the Encounter card to see who is 
attacked and for how much damage. 
When a creature attacks a specific player, the damage is assigned 
immediately. When determining the victim, all damage comparisons refer to 
damage done this round.
e. 	Discard Attack Cards
Discard the Attack cards on the damage stack.
f. 	Draw Initiative for Next Round
g. 	Random Creature Attacks
When a creature attacks a random player, the number of the player refers to 
the player who drew that number on the new Initiative draw. Once that new 
Initiative is set, resolve the attack.
h. 	Draw a Card
Each player draws 1 card from the draw deck. Do not draw until all creature 
attacks (specific and/or random) have been resolved. 
i. 	Begin a New Round
Rounds continue until the creature is dead or the Encounter card 
conditions are met.
3. End of Encounter
The player who landed the final blow and killed the creature is awarded the 
Prestige Points listed; he places the card or creature token in a scoring pile 
next to his character sheet, plus any additional Prestige tokens due to special 
rules or bonuses. 
Players may discard any number of cards from their hand.
Players draw new cards to their maximum hand size (normally 7 cards). If at 
any time you have more than your maximum hand size, immediately discard 
cards of your choice that exceed that number.
Advance the yellow bead on the Monster Life Tracker to the next Encounter 
and begin the new Encounter. 
Cards
If more than one player wants to play a card at the same time, the player with 
the Initiative card closest to 1 takes priority. 
Attack Cards (Red combat icon)
Standard Attack cards show the damage inflicted this turn. Half/halving 
damage means rotating the card to the next lowest damage value; double/
doubling means rotating it to the next highest value. If there is no higher 
value, it cannot be doubled further.
Some Standard Attack cards have Special Attacks with higher attack values 
for the character pictured only. Special attacks are protected: once revealed, 
it cannot be affected by unwanted Action cards. Using the special attack is 
never mandatory.
Enhanced Attack cards have additional abilities that afect yours or other 
players’ attacks.
Tactical Maneuvers are other strategic moves and do not hit or inflict damage. 
Feint cannot be made to hit or inflict damage by other cards and effects.
Stand In (Double Strike, Opportunity Fire) cards are immediately replaced 
with new cards when revealed. Only the actual Attack card that results can 
be affected by other cards or effects.
Edge Out can target any set, facedown Attack card, but not a card that 
replaces a Stand In card. The exception is the second attack card resulting 
from Opportunity Fire, as it sends up set facedown.
Riders (Focus Strength, Slip Behind) cause subsequent Attack cards 
to be modified. When played they ‘stand-by’ in front of that character’s 
character sheet until they modify an Attack card, when they are placed on 
the damage stack along with it. This is always considered a single attack. If 
an Attack card with a rider is further modified, rotate both cards. A single 
Attack card may have multiple additive Riders, but only one multiplicative 
Rider. Apply effects in the order played.
Action Cards (Blue oval icon)
Action cards are not set for combat, but always played directly from your hand, 
and sometimes out of turn or at a specific time.
Not So Tough/Tougher Than He Looks may be played for either of its effects.
Item Cards (Jewel-shaped icon)
When you draw an Item card, immediately place it faceup beside your 
character sheet. It does not count as a card in your hand and may stay there 
until you are ready to use it. To use an item, state you are doing so. 
Potions are ‘tipped to drink’: rotated 90º clockwise (once tipped, they may not 
be stolen or affected by other game effects). Healing Potions can be used to 
aid other willing players, granting Prestige Points if used in this way (place the 
card on your Prestige pile).
Potions and Alchemist Fire are one-use Items and are removed from play after 
use. They can also be used in negotiations between players. 
Winning the Game
When then last encounter is defeated, the game is over. The player with the 
most Prestige Points wins. 
If there is a tie, draw a random Encounter card from the cards set aside at the 
beginning of the game and begin a new encounter. Continue until the tie is 
broken at the end of an encounter.
Dead Players
If a player dies they are out of the game. Remove the highest Initiative card 
from the game. If the player died with an item, their body may be looted: 
at the end of the Encounter, draw Initiative. In Initiative order, players may 
choose an item from the dead player.

Expansion 1: Deeper & Darker
Character Abilities
Each character has a unique Character Ability. To use an ability, state you are 
doing so; it immediately takes affect.
In non-bonus rounds, any associated attacks linked to that ability are 
immediately immune to ‘unwanted’ Action cards. From Round 7, the attack 
may be targeted by Action cards as normal.
If Talon and Orn try to use their ability at the same time, the first one to speak 
gets priority, or the player with the Initiative card closest to 1 takes priority. 
Expansion 2: Relics & Ruin
The Event Deck
Shuffle the Event cards (those with a star are particularly deadly) and place 
them facedown on the table near the Encounter deck.
Whenever an Encounter card is revealed, check the type of encounter. If the 
encounter is creature-based, draw an Event card and place it faceup next to 
the Encounter card. Note what number encounter you face (on the Monster 
Tracker) and if that number appears on the Activation track of the Event card, 
the Event is activated: read it aloud. Otherwise, discard the card without 
effect.
As a general rule, Events! activate immediately and Treasures! are resolved at 
the end of the encounter.
Relic Cards
Relic cards are Items that can only be earned through the Event deck. They 
can be affected by cards that interact with Items.
Relic cards are placed faceup next to a player’s character sheet and can be 
used any time, subject to the limitations on the card.
Poison
When poisoned, a player places a poison token on their character sheet. 
At the end of every round, players with a poison token are damaged for 5 
points for each poison token they have. They also have all their attacks 
modified by -10 damage for each token. The effect of these tokens is 
cumulative.
A player may only remove one Poison token at the end of every encounter.
A poison attack can be redirected, but once poisoned, the damage cannot be.
Encounters
Vampyre
Players who have become Vampyres are not creatures; they are still players and 
act on their regular turn in Initiative order. They do not play Attack cards, but 
select a player without a Vampyre token to damage for 5 points. They can play 
Action cards normally.
When the Vampyre dies, all ‘turned’ players revert to their natural state 
(keeping the LP and negative Prestige Points they gained).
Wereboar
A player turned into a Wereboar at the end of the game does become a 
creature; he is no longer a player and can no longer win the game by having 
the most Prestige. He cannot have his Items taken, nor can he use them. 
A player who is now a Wereboar can win the game by killing the rest of the 
party.
Gluttony
Amulet of Mentalism: Adjusts your maximum hand size to 8 cards; you may 
still draw up to 14 cards.
“We fight in too close a quarters” Event: You may still draw up to 14 cards, 
though Gluttony will be powered up even more.
“A blessing of daylight” Event: Increases your maximum hand size by one; 
therefore to 15 cards. The first card drawn to increase your hand size is free 
and does not trigger Gluttony’s effect.
“Bring the chest. We’ll solve the riddle later” Event 
Only Attack cards with Attack values in the red burst are used; discard any 
other cards. If an item is discarded in this way, it is not removed from the 
game. To count as a match, only the Attack value of played Attack cards is 
considered, not the name of the card.
Expansion 3: Tombs & Tomes
The Adventure Modules
Each Adventure Module is a one-shot, self-guided, RPG-style story; basic game 
play has not changed.
If you wish to replay an adventure module, allow other players who have not 
played it to make all the decisions. If you must make a decision, do so at 
random.
Quest Cards
Without an adventure module, Quest cards can add to the winnning conditions 
of the standard game.
Encounters
Emperor Lich
This encounter is resolved in 3 phases:
1. 	The players who have survived to this final encounter must battle a skeleton 
token for every player.
2. 	The players who died prior to this encounter engage the party in battle; they 
are considered creatures (they do not get dealt Initiative cards and attack 
at the end of the round). They must discard and redraw any Action cards 
or Items they draw other than Critical Miss or Trip. You may Counter Strike 
them.
3.	Finally, the party must fight the Lich. Kiling the Lich is the only part of the 
encounter that grants Bonus Prestige.
Hivemind
If the Hivemind attacks in a round where a player has played I think he called 
you ugly too, the specific token that was attacked with that card splits off from 
the group and attacks the named player (it does not redirect the entire swarm).
Thantigist
When you physically switch seats, you effectively become the other character 
and now hold thei hand, Life Points, Prestige and Items.
Ragnarok
You can’t pick and choose whom to bring back, and you don’t have to bring 
anyone back to life, but you may need their help ...
Barrier Magus
Knocking down the barrier is not a creature attack, so you can’t play Counter 
Strike. If his barier is up, the Magus attacks; if the barrier is down, he raises 
his barrier instead of attacking.
“T’is the fog of war” Event
All cards are played hidden; tell other players what it is without actually 
showing it. Move the bead on the Monster Track as the damage is announced 
in this particular case. Skip this event if it comes up with a creature that plays 
havoc with the damage stack! 
If you lie and are challenged, the card is countered and you lose 3 Prestige (if 
you didn’t lie, they lose 1 Prestige). 
v1

1. Begin a New Encounter
a. Reveal and Read the Top Encounter Card 
Mark starting Life Points (LP) on the Monster Life Tracker depending 
on the number of players that started the game.
Players take any Potions they wish to use before or during the encounter.
Each player draws an Initiative card.
2. Combat Round
a. 	Set Attack Cards
Each player places 1 Attack card facedown in front of them.
If you have no Attack cards, set an Action card as a bluff; it is 
discarded without effect when revealed. A set Attack card not played 
for any reason is discarded at the end of the round.
b. 	Player Turns
Each player takes a turn in order of their Initiative. 
On a player’s turn he flips his set Attack card and inflicts damage or 
follows the rules on the card. Place successfully played Attack cards in 
a damage stack beside the Encounter card.
When facing a token-based encounter, spread out the tokens and have 
players place their Attack cards on the specific token they wish to hit. 
Check to see if the player has killed the creature or completed the 
encounter after each Attack card is played. If not, the next player in 
Initiative order takes his turn. When all players have had a turn, the 
party’s combat round is over.
c. 	Total Attack Damage
Total the damage of the Attack cards and adjust the creature’s LP. 
d. 	Specific Creature Attacks
If the creature is not killed, consult the rules and Attack Matrix on the 
Encounter card to see who is attacked and for how much damage. 
When a specific player is attacked, damage is assigned immediately. 
All damage comparisons refer to damage done this round.
e. 	Discard Attack Cards on the Damage Stack
f. 	Draw Initiative for Next Round
g. 	Random Creature Attacks
When a random player is attacked, the number of the player refers to 
the player who drew that number on the new Initiative draw. 
h. 	Each Player Draws 1 Card from the Draw Deck
i. 	Begin a New Round
Rounds continue until the creature is dead or card conditions are met.
3. End of Encounter
The player who landed the final blow and killed the creature is awarded 
the Prestige Points listed. 
Players may discard any number of cards from their hand.
Players draw new cards to their maximum hand size (normally 7 cards). 
Advance the Encounter Number and begin a new Encounter.