In the Cyclades archipelago, off the coast of a not-yet unified Greece, 
the great cities (Sparta, Athens, Corinth, Thebes and Argos) are 
growing and struggling against one another to establish their supre-
macy, under the benevolent gaze of the Gods.
Goal of the game:
Demonstrate the supremacy of your parent city by being the first player to have 2 Metro-
polises at the end of a cycle
game setup:
Each player gets the items of his color u which he places in front of his screen v visible 
to all, and 5 GP w which he hides behind his screen.
Place the game boards x, Troops and Fleets according to the number of players, as indica-
ted on the illustrations on pages 7 and 8 (you’ll find numbers corresponding to the number 
of players at the bottom of each board).
Shuffle the Mythological Creature cards and place 
them, face down, in a pile on the proper place y. 
Place the 5 figurines next to the discard pile z.
Place the Philosopher cards  and the Priest 
cards  on the place reserved for them 
on the board.
Each player takes only one of his offe-
ring tokens. These tokens are shuf-
fled and randomly placed on the 
first places of the game turn  (the 
second offering token is only used 
for two-player games).
Leave the 4 God tiles  next to 
the game board.
The building tiles, the Metropo-
lis tiles, the two special dice, the 
prosperity markers and the GP 
which have not been given out 
are set aside while not in use in 
the game.
A game by Ludovic Maublanc and Bruno Cathala, for 2 to 5 players
Contents
3-part game board
2 special dice
98 gold pieces 
(GP)
16 prosperity 
markers
5 figurines: Kraken, 
Minotaur, Medusa, 
Polyphemus, Chiron
17 Mythological 
Creature cards
17 Philosopher 
cards
18 Priest cards
4 large God tiles
40 buildings: 
10 Ports	
10 Fortresses 
10 Temples 	 10 Universities 
10 Metropolises
For each of the 5 
game colors:
	
2 offering 	
 
	
tokens 	
8 Fleets
	
3 territory 
	
tokens 	
8 Troops	
1 screen
x
y
z





 
 
 
 
The game:
The game takes place over a series of cycles during which the players will:
• first, gather their revenue in GP (production of their islands + seafaring commerce)
• then make offerings to the Gods (auction). It will sometimes be necessary to spend 
much in order to gain the favors of the God of your choice.
• finally, depending on the God whose favor you obtained, perform the actions specific 
to that God (each God has a “free” action, while others can only be used by spending 
more of one’s precious GP).
The goal of each player is to own two Metropolises at the end of a cycle (either by building 
them and/or by conquering them). The game ends at the end of a cycle if at least one of the 
players has completed this objective. If multiple players reach this goal in the same cycle, 
then the richest one (whoever has the most GP) wins.
Explanation of a Cycle:
1) Mythological Creatures:
During each cycle some Mythological Creatures will be wandering the isles of the Cyclades.
At the beginning of each cycle, the first thing to do is update the Mythological Creature 
track (see illustration) to have three visible Creatures, one on each of the spaces. The GP 
under each space indicate the price to be paid to use that Creature during the action phase 
(see later). Proceed thus:
• Discard the Creature on the “2 GP” space if it wasn’t used during the previous round.
• Then move all other cards to the right, in order to fill all empty spaces.
• Finally, fill the remaining spaces by drawing new cards.
When the draw pile is empty, shuffle the discard pile to create a new draw pile.
Special case at the beginning of the game:
• During the very first cycle, draw the first Mythological Creature and place it face-up on 
the left hand space on the track (4 GP).
• During the second cycle, if this Creature has not been used, move it one square to the 
right and put the first Creature from the draw pile face-up on the space which was just 
freed. (If it was used, place the two first Creatures from the draw pile on the 4 GP and 
3 GP spaces.)
2) The Gods:
The order in which the Gods grant the players their actions changes at the beginning of 
each cycle.
The 4 large God tiles are shuffled and placed randomly on the 4 empty spaces above 
Apollo’s space. In a game with 5 players all 4 tiles are placed face-up.
When playing with 4 players, the last of the 4 Gods will be placed face-down. It will not be 
available for this cycle. During the following cycle, you will place this God in the first space, 
face-up, and shuffle the other 3. Once again, the God placed in 4th place will be face-down 
and will become first God during the following cycle.
When playing with 3 players, the first two Gods will be placed face-up and the last two 
face-down. During the next cycle, the two Gods which were face-down will be used. On the 
cycle following that, the 4 Gods will be shuffled again to make two new random pairs.
The rule changes specific to 2-player games are detailed on page 6.
3) Revenues:
Each city earns gold pieces (GP) according to the prosperity of its isles and of seafaring 
commerce.
Each player gets 1 GP for each prosperity marker he controls.
The prosperity markers are present on multiple isles (printed on the board, then present on 
the board as markers due to Apollo, as seen on page 6), as well as certain sea spaces (prin-
ted on arrows which represent the fact that present ships are trading with other nations). 
The GP earned by the players must be hidden behind their screens.
During the previous cycle, a 
player has used the Creature on 
the 3 GP space. The track must 
now be updated for the begin-
ning of the new cycle:
u	The Minotaur is discarded 
(no one wanted it)
v	The Pegasus is moved onto 
the 2 GP space
w	The 3 GP and 4 GP spaces
x	are filled with the first Crea-
tures off the top of the draw 
Draw 
Discard 
This island 
earns 2 GP for 
the Blue player.
This commerce 
square earns 
1 GP for the 
Green player.
x
Turn 
Mythological 
Creatures 
God 

4) Offerings:
To gain the support of the Gods and the actions associated with them, the players will have 
to sacrifice part of their riches (GP).
In the playing order, each player chooses a God and places his offering marker on the space 
corresponding to the offering that the player wishes to make to that God.
If an offering goes over 10, the player places one of his territory markers on the 10+ space, 
with the offering marker then indicating any remaining number beyond 10 (example: to bid 
13, a player places his territory marker on 10+ and his offering marker on 3).
A God grants his favor to only one player: the player who made the highest offering.
If a player has made an offering to an already chosen God:
• The offering must then be higher than the one already taking place.
• The player who made the previous offering must take his marker back and must imme-
diately bid on a DIFFERENT God.
It is possible that the player thus outbid will outbid another player. Any such case must 
be resolved before the next player in the turn order places his offering marker. Any player 
may place his offering marker on Apollo’s space without spending anything, as only Apollo 
does not require any offerings. It is possible for multiple players to choose Apollo in the 
same cycle. The first player to choose Apollo places his token on the 1 space, the second 
on the 2 space, etc.
The offering phase is over when each player has placed his marker on a God.
Each player pays the number of GP he offered to his God, taking into account any possible 
reductions due to Priest cards (see later).
Important: even though the number of GP each player has must be kept secret during the 
game, it is forbidden to make an offering you can’t afford! The Gods’ wrath would be terrible!
5) Performing actions:
The Gods are activated in the order determined at the beginning of the cycle.
The player who has won the offering bid on the first God can perform, in the order of his 
choice, the actions specific to that God, and use a Mythological Creature by paying the 
cost corresponding to each of those actions.
The actions are the following:
• Call upon one or more Mythological Creatures (all Gods except for Apollo)
• Recruit (all Gods except Apollo)
• Build (all Gods except Apollo)
• Special action (all Gods except Athena and Apollo)
• Increase revenue (Apollo)
The 4 main Gods work in the same way. Only Apollo is different.
It is possible to alternate actions (example: recruit, built and recruit again).
When the player is done with his actions, he places his offering marker on the last free 
space of the turn track. It is then up to the player who won the offering bid on the next 
God to perform his actions.
• Call one or more Mythological Creatures 
By paying the cost indicated under the card (2, 3 or 4 GP minus any cost reductions due 
to Temples) the player can take the corresponding Creature card and apply the indicated 
effect. Once the power is used, the card is placed face-up in the discard pile.
The powers of the Creatures must be used immediately. A player cannot keep a Creature 
he just bought in order to use it later.
The power of each Creature and the use of the 5 Creature figurines are explained on the 
4-page reference booklet contained in the box.
It is important to note that new Creature cards are only placed on the board at the beginning of each 
cycle. So it’s the player who made the best offering to the first God who will get to help himself first. 
And since there’s nothing stopping him from playing multiple Creatures, it is quite possible that the 
last few players of the cycle will no longer have any Creatures available to them by the time their turn 
comes around.
The Blue player wants to go to war 
and makes an offering to Ares.
He places his marker on 5, thin-
king that this value will scare off 
other players.
But the Red player makes an 
offering worth 6 on Ares!
The Blue player must immedia-
tely make a new choice.
He then makes an offering worth 
1 to Poseidon, hoping to be ousted 
in order to come back to Ares.
And that’s exactly what happens: 
Yellow makes an offering worth 3 
to Poseidon, ousting Blue.
Blue immediately makes an 
offering worth 7 to Ares, ousting 
Red, who must now make an 
offering to another God... What 
will Red do?
Red played first: once he is done 
performing actions, he places his 
offering marker on the 5 space. 
The next player (Green) will place 
his marker on the 4 space, etc.
Thus, it is the player who played 
last who will, during the next 
turn, make the first offering.
 
 
Example: end of actions
Example: offerings
cal 

• Recruit 
The main Gods allow players to recruit, depending on their specialty, a Troop, a Fleet, 
a Priest or a Philosopher for free, but also to get more in exchange for precious gold 
pieces (GP).
• Build
A specific type of building is associated to each God, each building with a different effect.
During his turn, a player may build the same sort of building multiple times, including on 
the same isle, so long as he can afford the cost of 2 GP.
As soon as a player owns 4 different buildings, whether on one or many isles, he automa-
tically creates a Metropolis (see later).
Recruit Fleets
Poseidon offers a free Fleet.
It is possible to purchase extra 
Fleets, as follows:
• The second Fleet costs 1 GP
• The third one 2 GP
• The fourth one 3 GP
A player cannot purchase 
more than 3 extra Fleets in any 
given turn.
No player may have more than 
8 Fleets.
Fleets must be built on sea 
spaces around an isle belon-
ging to the player. This space 
must either be empty or 
contain Fleets belonging to 
that same player.
Port
Effect: the Port gives a 
defensive bonus during 
seafaring battles occu-
ring on squares adjacent 
to this isle (see later).
Recruit Troops
Ares offers a free Troop.
It is possible to purchase 
extra Troops, as follows:
• The second Troop 
costs 2 GP
• The third one 3 GP
• The fourth one 4 GP
A player cannot purchase 
more than 3 extra Troops 
in any given turn.
No player can have more 
than 8 Troops.
Troops must be placed 
on isles controlled by the 
player.
Fortress
Effect: 
during 
batt-
les, the Fortress gives 
a defensive bonus to 
Troops present on this 
isle (see later).
Recruit Priests
Zeus offers a free Priest.
It is possible to get a single 
extra Priest for 4 GP.
Priests must be placed in 
front of the screen, in plain 
sight.
Effect of Priests:
Each Priest reduces the 
offering to be paid by 1 GP 
at the beginning of each 
cycle.
No matter how many 
Priests a player has, that 
player MUST pay at least 1 
GP for his offering (only the 
access to Apollo is comple-
tely free).
Temple 
Effect: each Temple reduces the cost 
of buying a Mythological Creature by 1 
GP. The price reduction of each Temple 
can only be used once per cycle. No 
matter how many Temples a player 
owns, he must still spend at least 1 GP 
to get a Creature.
Athena
Recruit 
Philosophers
Athena offers a free 
Philosopher.
It is possible to get a 
single extra Philoso-
pher for 4 GP.
Philosophers must be 
placed in front of the 
screen, in plain sight. 
Effect of 
Philosophers:
As soon as a player 
gets a 4th Philosopher, 
he must immediately 
discard them to create 
a Metropolis (see later).
Athena
University
Effect: the University 
has no special effect... 
but it is one of the 4 
buildings you will need 
to create a Metropolis.
Buildings are placed on the white 
squares of each isle.

• Special action
Some Gods grant you special actions.
During his turn, a player may perform these actions multiple times, as long as he has 
enough GP to afford them.
Move Fleets 
For 1 GP, the player may 
move Fleets currently on 
the same sea space and 
move them a maximum 
of 3 spaces. He can add or 
abandon Fleets during that 
movement.
If Fleets enter a space occu-
pied by enemy Fleets, their 
movement ends and a naval 
battle begins immediately.
Move Troops 
For 1 GP, the player may move some or all Troops on an isle 
to another isle connected by a chain of Fleets of his color.
• If he lands on an isle where enemy Troops are present, a 
battle starts immediately.
• If he lands on an isle where there are no Troops, he claims 
this isle without a battle, even if the isle has a Fortress.
• If his Troops leave their starting isle empty, he must leave 
a territory marker there. This isle belongs to him as long 
as no opponent lands there. (An isle owned by a player can 
therefore never become neutral again).
Last isle: a player may NOT attack the last isle of another 
player, unless he can prove that he would win the game were 
he to sucessfully conquer the isle.
If, for example, the player who has chosen Ares already owns a 
Metropolis, he has the right to attack the last isle owned by ano-
ther player if that isle contains a Metropolis: if the invasion were 
to be successful, he would win the game.
Change the Creatures. 
For 1 GP, the player 
can discard an availa-
ble Creature card and 
replace it with the first 
card of the draw pile. 
 
This action can be used 
to get rid of a dange-
rous Creature at a lesser 
cost or “seek” a specific 
Creature the player may 
need.
Note: it is possible that two 
armies annihilate themsel-
ves at the same time. In the 
case of a land-based battle, 
the defender keeps his isle. He 
places a territory marker of 
his color on the isle. He still 
benefits from the revenues 
of that isle and the effects of 
buildings on it, but it will no 
longer be defended against a 
subsequent attack for as long 
as the player has not recruited 
new Troops thanks to Ares.
Example of Fleet movement 
The initial situation above.
First movement:
The group of 3 Fleets joins 
the adjacent Fleet.
Second movement:
The 4 Fleets move together 
1 space.
Third movement:
2 Fleets are left behind while 
the other 2 make one final 
movement.
Explanation of battle:
1) Each player participating in battle rolls 1 die and adds the number of Troops/Fleets he 
has in the combat zone.
	
If the battle takes place on an isle where one or more Fortresses have been 
built, the defender adds «1» to his die value for each Fortress.
If the battle takes place on a sea space adjacent to an isle (or 
isles) where the defender has built one or more Ports, the 
defender adds «1» to his die value for each Port.
2) The player who has the lowest result loses the first assault. He removes a Troop / Fleet 
from the battle and places it in his reserve, in front of his screen. If the result is a tie, both 
players lose a Troop / Fleet (see note at the bottom right corner of this page).
3) If both combatants still have Troops / Fleets, the defender can decide to retreat (see 
below). If he does not (or if he cannot), the attacker can also retreat. If neither of the 
players retreat, a new assault takes place (see step 1).
4) These steps are repeated until only one player is left in the combat zone. That player 
takes control of the isle or the sea space in which battle occurred.
If it was an isle, the winner also gets all buildings found on the isle.
Retreating during a land-based battle: if one of the players wants to abandon combat, 
he must bring his Troops back to an isle belonging to him and linked by Fleets to the one 
where battle occurred. If these conditions are not met, the Troops cannot retreat.
Retreating during a sea-faring battle: if one of the players wants to abandon combat, he 
must move his Fleets to an empty adjacent space or one he controls. If no space matches 
these requirements, the Fleets cannot retreat.
Important: an isle is consi-
dered to be a single space, no 
matter how big it is. The port 
above therefore affects all 
8 adjacent spaces. And the 
Troop present protects the 
entire isle.

• apollo
Finally, the player(s) who have chosen Apollo will play last and have a very limited choice 
of actions. Playing Apollo is technically a way to skip one’s turn to save money. 
6) End of the round:
Once every player has played and replaced their offering marker on the turn track, the 
round is finished.
If one or more players own 2 Metropolises, the game ends. Otherwise, a new cycle 
begins.
End of the game and victory:
The game ends at the end of a cycle where at least one player owns 2 Metropolises.
That player wins the game!
If more than a single player ends the cycle with two Metropolises, it’s the player who has 
the most GP remaining behind his screen who wins.
The Metropolises: 
Each isle has a space reserved for Metropolis (dotted red square).
There are two ways of creating a Metropolis:
• Economic development: a player who has all 4 types of buildings 
(Port, Fortress, Temple and University), even if they are spread over 
many of his isles, must immediately discard them and replace them 
with a Metropolis token, which he places on an empty space on one 
of his isles. 
	 If there are no free spaces, the player must destroy one or more of his buildings to free 
the space required to place his Metropolis. 
• Intellectual development: a player who has 4 Philosophers must immediately discard 
them to earn a Metropolis.The player places the Metropolis token on an empty space 
on one of his isles.
	 If the only available space is occupied by buildings, the player is forced to destroy them 
to place his Metropolis.
	 If a player only has one isle on which he already owns a Metropolis, his 4 Philosophers 
are simply discarded (the new Metropolis “replaces” the old one).
There’s a third way to earn a Metropolis: conquer an isle where there’s already one!
A Metropolis is a “super building” which has the powers of all other buildings.  
2 Player 
game
Set up the game accor-
ding to the illustration 
on page 8.
Each player takes the 
two offering markers of 
his color.
Shuffle the 4 offering 
markers 
and 
place 
them randomly on the 
first spaces of the turn 
track.
Then play exactly as 
detailed for 4 players, 
but each player must 
make offerings to two 
Gods instead of a single 
one (it is possible to 
outbid yourself).
Note: each player must be 
able to pay the entire cost 
of his offerings on both 
chosen Gods. A Priest 
allows a player to save 1 
GP on each offering.
The game ends when 
one of the two players 
owns 3 Metropolises 
at the end of a cycle 
(instead of 2 in larger 
games).
The player who has chosen Apollo gets:
• 1 GP if he owns more than one isle
• or 4 GP if he owns a single isle.
The GP thus won are placed behind his screen.
Moreover, he takes one prosperity marker which he places on the isle of his choice (this 
isle, blessed by Apollo, will earn 1 extra GP at the beginning of every subsequent cycle). A 
same island can contain several prosperity markers.
Important: if more than one player has chosen Apollo during a single cycle round, all earn 
the extra GP, but only the first player to have chosen Apollo will get a prosperity marker.
Apollo does not offer any other actions.
A game by Bruno Cathala 
and Ludovic Maublanc
Illustrations by Miguel Coimbra
Translation by Eric Harlaux
Revision by Eric & Stephanie Franklin
© 2009 Matagot - www.matagot.com/cyclades