rulEBOOK

CYTOSIS: A CELL BIOLOGY GAME
A game that takes place inside a human cell for 2 - 5 players
GAME SUMMARY
Cytosis is a worker placement game that takes place inside a human cell. Players start out with a number 
of flasks and on their turn, they place one of their flasks on any available location within that cell. Some 
locations provide players with resources (e.g., mRNA, ATP) and some with actions (e.g., convert resources, 
collect cards). Resources are used to build enzymes, hormones, and/or receptors, which score Health Points. 
The player with the most Health Points at the end of the game wins!
COMPONENTS - BASE GAME
43 CELL COMPONENT CARDS
• 10 Enzyme Cards
• 6 Protein Hormone Cards
• 6 Steroid Hormone Cards
• 5 Steroid Hormone Receptor Cards
• 5 Protein Hormone Receptor Cards
• 4 Additional Resource Cards
• 7 Detoxification Cards
66 MACROMOLECULE RESOURCES
• 18 mRNA Resources (Black)
• 18 Protein Resources (Red)
• 15 Carbohydrate Resources (Green)
• 15 Lipid Resources (Yellow)
5 GOAL CARDS 
12 EVENT CARDS 
COMPONENTS - VIRUS EXPANSION
6 CELL COMPONENT CARDS 
• 2 Ebola Virus Attack
• 2 Influenza Virus Attack
• 2 Rhinovirus Virus Attack 
2 GOAL CARDS 
3 EVENT CARDS 
 
p
(
)
66 MACRO
5 PLAYER MATS
5 ANTIBODY DICE
15 ANTIBODY MARKERS
(TAN)
5 AN
2 GREY FLASKS
1 FIRST PLAYER MARKER 
PLAYER PIECES
• 20 Flasks 
 (4 of each in 5 different colors)
• 10 Transport Vesicle Disks 
 (2 of each in 5 different colors)
• 15 Player Markers 
 (3 of each in 5 different colors)
1 GAME BOARD (DOUBLE-SIDED)
30 ATP TOKENS
7 EPIGENETIC MODIFICATION 
CARDS

GAME SETUP 
If you’re playing the Base Game, remove all the components from the Virus Expansion and the 7 
Epigenetic Modification Cards and place them back into the box. You won’t use these components.
From the Event Cards, remove the 
3 Virus Event Cards.
From the Goal Cards, remove the two 
Virus Expansion Goal Cards (“Virus Attack” 
and “Immune Response”). 
Remove the 7 Epigenetic Modification Cards.
 
Place the board in the center of the play area with the Base Game side 
of the board face up. Then, separate the macromolecule resources 
into like colors, placing them in piles near the board. Now, place the 
ATP Tokens in a pile near the board. These macromolecule resources 
and ATP Token piles make up the general resource stock. Place the 2 
Grey Flasks on the Grey Flask area of the board.
Separate the three types of cards: Event Cards, Goal Cards, and Cell 
Component Cards. Shuffle the 12 Event Cards. If playing a 2 or 3 
player game, randomly remove 2 Event Cards and place them back into 
the box. If playing a 4 player game, randomly remove 1 Event Card, 
and if playing a 5 player game remove none. Now, place the remaining 
Event Cards face down as a deck near the game board.
Shuffle the Goal Cards and place a number of them face up above the game board, equal to the number 
of players plus 1 (Exception: In a 5 player game without the Virus Expansion, use all five Goal Cards.) 
Place any unused Goal Cards back into the box.
Shuffle the Cell Component Cards and flip four of these cards face up into the four available spots 
of the Cell Component Card Area of the board. 
Deal each player three Cell Component Cards. Each player should secretly choose two of the three to 
keep and shuffle the one unchosen Cell Component Card in with the remaining Cell Component Cards. 
Place the remaining Cell Component Cards face down as a deck to the right of the Cell Component Cards 
Area just off the board. 
From the Cell Component Cards, 
remove the 6 Virus Attack Cards.
Remove the 5 Antibody Dice, 15 
Antibody Markers and 5 Player Mats. 
BASE GAME SIDE

Each player should place one of their Markers on the number 0 on the Health Track (the numeric track 
surrounding the game board). This is a player’s Health Marker, which tracks that player’s score along 
the Health Track. 
Whoever was sick most recently receives the First Player Marker and 2 ATP. The player to their left 
receives 3 ATP, the next player 4 ATP, and so on until all players have ATP. This is each player’s starting 
Each player chooses 2 additional resources (any combination of ATP, mRNA or Lipids) to add to their 
You are now ready to play!
 Here’s what setup for a 3 player game looks like
2 OR 3 
PLAYER GAME
4 Flasks 
Player 3
Player 2
Player 1
4 PLAYER GAME
3 Flasks 
5 PLAYER GAME
2 Flasks 
Give each player their Player Pieces according to the chart below. Each player’s pieces should all be of 
the same color.

GAMEPLAY
GAME SUMMARY
Cytosis is played in rounds and each round is divided into two phases. During Phase 1, players will place 
their flasks in order to collect resources and take actions with the goal of completing Cell Component 
Cards and thus scoring Health Points. Once all players have placed all their flasks, Phase 1 is over and 
Phase 2 begins. During Phase 2, an Event Card will be revealed and the board will be refreshed. 
This process continues until the last Event Card is revealed, after which one more round is played and 
then players will add up their final number of Health Points.
PHASE 1: FLASK PLACEMENT
Every round, the player holding the First Player Marker will be the first player to take their turn, then 
play continues clockwise. 
On their turn, a player must place exactly one of their flasks on any available spot on the board and then 
must also immediately collect the resources or take the action associated with that spot. Then, the player 
to their left (i.e. clockwise) now takes their turn. This flask placement process continues clockwise with 
each player placing flasks in this fashion, one at a time, until all players have placed all of their flasks. 
Instead of placing a flask, a player may choose to collect a single mRNA, Lipid, or ATP, 
exhausting one of their flasks. Any exhausted flasks may not be placed again that round. 
Only one flask may be placed on each spot. If a spot is occupied, it is not available again 
during that round.
 There are four main types of flask placement spots in the base game: 
Collecting Resources (to add to your personal resource stock), 
Purchasing Cell Component Cards (to add to your hand),
Completing Cell Component Cards (these cards are completed over multiple turns), 
Taking the First Player Marker (and Placing a Goal Marker or Taking 1 ATP)
PHASE 2: EVENT CARD REVEALED AND BOARD REFRESHED
All players should retrieve the flasks they placed during Phase 1 and return the Grey Flasks to the Grey 
Flask Area of the game board. (Transport Vesicle Disks and any resources on them should stay on the board.) 
Now, reveal the top Event Card from the Event deck and follow the instructions on that card. 
This new Event Card is the only active Event Card. Any 
Event Cards from previous rounds become inactive. 
Remove the left-most Cell Component Card from the Cell Component 
Card Area and place it in the Cell Component Card discard pile. Now, 
without changing the order of the cards, slide any remaining face up 
Cell Component Cards to the left-most open space(s). Then fill any 
newly opened spots with Cell Component Cards from the top of the 
Cell Component Card deck.
If there are no cards remaining in the Cell Component Card deck, 
shuffle the Cell Component Card discard pile and place it face down 
as the Cell Component Card deck.
Available
Not 
Available
DISCARD
LEFT-MOST
CARD 
SLIDE TO THE LEFT
ENDING THE GAME:
Revealing the last Event Card marks the last round of the game. Play through Phase 1 one last time 
and instead of going through Phase 2, skip directly to Scoring.

FLASK PLACEMENT SPOTS
The game board contains a number of spots on which players can place their flasks.
COLLECTING RESOURCES 
(TO ADD TO YOUR PERSONAL RESOURCE STOCK) 
NUCLEUS (DNA Transcription) 
If a player places a flask on the spot marked with a 3, they receive 3 black 
mRNA resources. If a player places on the spot marked with a 2, they receive 
2 black mRNA resources. Players should add these black resources to their 
 
PLASMA MEMBRANE (Glucose Transporter) 
If a player places a flask on the spot marked with a 2, they pay 2 ATP from 
their personal resource stock and receive 2 green Carbohydrate resources. 
If a player places on the spot marked with a 1, they pay 1 ATP from their 
personal resource stock and receive 1 green Carbohydrate resource. Players 
should add these green resources to their personal resource stock.
MITOCHONDRIA (ATP Production) 
If a player places a flask on either of the spots marked with a 2 or 3, they 
receive 2 or 3 ATP Tokens, respectively. If a player places on the bottom-most 
spot, they must pay 1 green Carbohydrate resource from their personal 
resource stock, and receive 6 ATP. (If 6 ATP are not available, they may take 
less than 6 ATP). Players should add these ATP Tokens to their personal 
resource stock. 
SMOOTH ER (Lipid Synthesis) 
If a player places a flask on the spot marked with a 3, they receive 3 yellow 
Lipid resources. If a player places on the spot marked with a 2, they receive 2 
yellow Lipid resources. Players should add these yellow resources to their 
FREE RIBOSOME (mRNA Translation) 
If a player places a flask on the mRNA Translation spot, they must trade any 
number of black mRNA resources from their personal resource stock for the 
same number of red Protein resources. Players should then add these red 
resources to their personal resource stock.
EXTRA RESOURCES ADDED BY EVENT CARDS
If an Event Card adds a resource of any type to a location on the Board, that resource is awarded to the first player 
to place on any spot within that location on the board at no additional cost. (See Event Cards for more details.)

PURCHASING CELL COMPONENT CARDS (TO ADD TO YOUR HAND)
If a player places a flask on any of the spots within the 
Cell Component Card area, they must pay the ATP cost 
(indicated to the right of their flask) and collect the card 
just below their flask, placing that card into their hand.
COMPLETING CELL COMPONENT CARDS
(THESE CARDS ARE COMPLETED OVER MULTIPLE TURNS)
SMOOTH ER 
If a player places a flask on the lower portion of the Smooth ER (Alcohol 
Detoxification or Steroid Hormone Synthesis) they must do one of two things:
ROUGH ER (Protein Hormone Synthesis / Receptor Synthesis) 
The process of completing a Protein Hormone, Protein Hormone Receptor or a 
Steroid Hormone Receptor Card starts by first placing a flask in the Rough ER. If 
a player places a flask on any of the spots within the Rough ER they must: 
OPTION 1: ALCOHOL DETOXIFICATION 
If a player places a flask to complete an Alcohol Detoxification Card, they 
must pay the amount of ATP shown on the card and then immediately gain 
1 Health Point. 
OPTION 2: STEROID HORMONE SYNTHESIS 
The process of completing Steroid Hormone Cards starts by placing a flask in the 
Steroid Hormone Synthesis area of the Smooth ER. If a player places a flask in this 
spot, they must: 
1. Place one of their Transport Vesicle Disks on any one of the available Budding 
 Transport Vesicle Locations (yellow rimmed circles) in the Smooth ER.
2. Place a number of Lipid resources (just Lipid resources, Carbohydrate 
 resources must be placed on their Transport Vesicle Disk in the Golgi Apparatus) 
 from their personal resource stock onto that Transport Vesicle Disk according to 
 the quantity required by the Steroid Hormone Card that player is trying to complete.
Budding Transport 
Vesicle Location
1. Place one of their Transport Vesicle Disks on any one of the available budding
 Transport Vesicle locations (yellow rimmed circles) in the Rough ER. 
2. Trade the number of mRNA resources from their personal resource stock 
 (according the Cell Component Card they are trying to complete) for the same 
 number of Protein resources from the general resource stock. Then, place 
 those Protein resources onto that Transport Vesicle Disk placed in Step 1 above. 
You must start with mRNA resources. You may not place Protein resources from 
your personal resource stock here.
A player must have at least the number of macromolecule resources required by the Cell 
Component Card they are completing on their Transport Vesicle Disk, but may have more.

GOLGI APPARATUS 
The Golgi Apparatus is the second step in the process of completing a Protein 
Hormone, Steroid Hormone, Protein Hormone Receptor, or Steroid Hormone 
Receptor Card. If a player places a flask on either of the spots within the Golgi 
Apparatus, they must: 
If the active player places a flask on a spot in the Smooth ER, Rough ER or Golgi Apparatus, and no budding 
Transport Vesicle locations for that area are available, that player chooses one Transport Vesicle Disk (and 
all resources on it) to remove from the board and return to the player who owns it. The active player must 
now place (or move) their Transport Vesicle Disk and appropriate resources onto the newly opened Transport 
Vesicle location.
PLASMA MEMBRANE (Exocytosis) 
The exocytosis of the Plasma Membrane is the final step in completing a 
Protein Hormone, Steroid Hormone, Protein Hormone Receptor, or Steroid 
Hormone Receptor Card. If a player places a flask on any of the spots within 
the Plasma Membrane, labeled Exocytosis, they must:
CYTOPLASM (Enzyme Synthesis) 
The Cytoplasm is the final step in completing an Enzyme Card (once a player 
has red Protein resources from the Free Ribosome). If a player places a flask 
on the spot within the Cytoplasm labeled Enzyme Synthesis, they must: 
1. Move one of their Transport Vesicle Disks (and all resources on it) from either 
 the Smooth ER or the Rough ER, onto an available budding Transport Vesicle 
 location in the Golgi Apparatus.
2. Place one Carbohydrate resource or one Lipid resource from their 
 personal resource stock onto that Transport Vesicle Disk, according to the Cell 
 Component Card they are trying to complete. (This spot does NOT allow a 
 player to trade a Carbohydrate resource for a Lipid resource or vice versa.)
1. Reveal the Cell Component Card they are completing. 
2. Move one of their Transport Vesicle Disks from the Golgi Apparatus, through 
 the Plasma Membrane, and out of the cell. 
3. Immediately pay the ATP cost indicated on that Cell Component Card. 
4. Place all the macromolecule resources from the Transport Vesicle Disk back 
 into the general resource stock. The Transport Vesicle Disk should go back to 
 the player who owns it. 
5. Gain Health Points according to the number indicated on the Cell Component 
 Card just completed. 
 
1. Reveal the Enzyme Card they are completing. 
 
2. Immediately pay the ATP cost indicated on that Enzyme Card. 
3. Pay a number of Protein resources (and a Carbohydrate resource if 
 required) from their personal resource stock, as indicated on that Enzyme Card. 
4. Gain Health Points according to the number indicated on the Enzyme 
 just completed.

The first Goal Marker placed on each Goal Card immediately awards that player 3 Health Points. 
(See Goal Cards for details.) 
TAKING THE FIRST PLAYER MARKER
(AND PLACING A GOAL MARKER OR TAKING 1 ATP)
LAUREATES IN BIOLOGY
If a player places a flask on the spot in the Laureates in Biology area, 
they must take the First Player Marker (and keep it for all subsequent 
rounds until the First Player Marker is claimed by another player) and 
they may choose to do one of the following: 
1. Take 1 ATP and add it to their personal resource stock, or 
2. Place one of their two Goal Markers on one of the available Goal Cards above 
 the game board. (Once a Goal Marker has been placed, it may never be moved.)
CELL COMPONENT CARDS 
There are five types of Cell Component Cards in the base game: (1) Hormone Cards, (2) Hormone 
Receptor Cards, (3) Enzyme Cards, (4) Alcohol Detoxification Cards, and (5) Additional 
Resource Cards. 
With the exception of the Additional Resource Cards, which simply give players additional resources, 
each card indicates the placement spot to begin that card, the resource cost (macromolecule 
resources and ATP) needed to complete that card, as well as the number of Health Points it will 
immediately score once it is completed. 
The Hormone Receptor Cards may score a player additional points throughout the game (see 
Hormone Receptor Cards for details) while Enzyme Cards or Alcohol Detoxification Cards may 
score a player additional End Game points. (See Enzyme Cards and Alcohol Detoxification Cards 
for details.) A quick reference for these additional points is shown at the bottom of each card. 
Cards in a player’s hand are kept secret from other players until completed, while completed cards 
should be kept face up in front of the player who completed them. Completed cards will be useful in 
tracking End Game points. 
HEALTH POINTS AWARDED 
PLACEMENT SPOT
TYPE OF CARD
ATP COST
MACROMOLECULE 
RESOURCES COST

HORMONE Cards
There are two different types of Hormone Cards: Protein Hormones 
(red background) and Steroid Hormones (blue background). 
Hormone Cards (as with most cards) are completed over a series 
of turns by placing flasks in the required spots, first in the ER (either 
the Smooth ER or the Rough ER), then in the Golgi Apparatus, and finally 
in the Plasma Membrane (Exocytosis). 
First, a player must place a flask in the ER (either Smooth ER for Steroid 
Hormone Cards or Rough ER for Protein Hormone Cards), which allows that 
player to immediately place one of their Transport Vesicle Disks in the ER, 
along with the required Protein or Lipid resources. (See Smooth ER and 
Rough ER sections under Completing Cell Component Cards for details.) 
Next, a player must place in the Golgi Apparatus, pulling their Transport Vesicle Disk (and all 
resources on it) from the ER and adding the additional Carbohydrate resource. 
Finally, a player must place in the Exocytosis area of the Plasma Membrane and pay the ATP cost. 
That player then gains the number of Health Points shown on the card just completed. 
All macromolecule resources shown on a Hormone Card must have been placed on a Transport 
Vesicle Disk in the process just outlined to complete a Hormone Card. 
2 ATP TOKENS
REWARD:
7 HEALTH 
POINTS 
2 PROTEIN RESOURCES
COSTS:
1 CARBOHYDRATE RESOURCE
4 ATP TOKENS
REWARD:
9 HEALTH 
POINTS 
3 LIPID RESOURCES
COSTS:
1 CARBOHYDRATE RESOURCE
PlACEMENT SPOT: 
ROUGH ER
PlACEMENT SPOT: 
SMOOTH ER

A Detailed Example of How to Complete a Protein Hormone Card 
For the first flask placement, place a flask in the Rough ER, 
and do all of the following: 
1. Place your Transport Vesicle Disk on one of the available 
 budding Transport Vesicle locations. 
2. Trade two mRNA resources from your personal resource stock 
 for two Protein resources to match the quantity required by 
 the Protein Hormone Card that you are trying to complete. 
3. Place those Protein resources onto that Transport Vesicle Disk. 
For the second flask placement, place a flask in the Golgi 
Apparatus, and do all of the following: 
1. Move your Transport Vesicle Disk (and all resources on it) 
 from the Rough ER, into an available budding Transport 
 Vesicle location in the Golgi Apparatus. 
2. Then place one Carbohydrate resource from your personal 
 resource stock onto that Transport Vesicle Disk. 
For the third flask placement, place a flask in the Exocytosis 
area of the Plasma Membrane, and do all of the following: 
1. Reveal the Protein Hormone Card you are completing.
2. Move your Transport Vesicle Disk (and all resources on it) 
 from the Golgi Apparatus, through the Plasma Membrane, 
 and out of the cell. 
3. Immediately pay the 2 ATP indicated on that Protein 
 Hormone Card. 
4. Place the macromolecule resources from that Transport 
 Vesicle Disk back into the general resource stock. 
 The Transport Vesicle Disk goes back to you! Gain the 7 
 Health Points shown on the Protein Hormone Card you’ve 
 just completed.
CONGRATULATIONS, YOU’VE JUST COMPLETED A 
PROTEIN HORMONE CARD! 
This example assumes the player has already collected mRNA resources previous 
to their first placement, a Carbohydrate resource previous to their second 
placement, and enough ATP previous to their third and last placement. 

HORMONE RECEPTOR CARDS
There are two types of Hormone Receptor Cards: Steroid Hormone Receptor 
Cards and Protein Hormone Receptor Cards. Both types of Hormone Receptor 
Cards are completed in the same way as the Hormone Cards, with two 
exceptions. First, BOTH Hormone Receptor Cards begin in the Rough ER. 
Second, Steroid Hormone Receptor Cards will receive a Lipid resource (rather 
than a Carbohydrate resource) in the Golgi Apparatus. (See Hormone Cards 
for more details on how to complete Hormone Receptor Cards.)
The major benefit of Hormone Receptor Cards is that players who have 
completed them will score Health Points when opposing players complete 
Hormone Cards. Any time an opposing player completes a Protein Hormone Card, 
all players with a completed Protein Hormone Receptor Card will gain 2 Health 
Points for each Protein Hormone Receptor Card they’ve completed.
Any time an opposing player completes a Steroid Hormone Card, all players with 
a completed Steroid Hormone Receptor Card will gain 2 Health Points for each 
Steroid Hormone Receptor Card they’ve completed.
Also, any time a player personally completes a Protein Hormone Card, they will score 
1 additional Health Point for each Protein Hormone Receptor Card they have already 
completed. Likewise, any time a player personally completes a Steroid Hormone Card, 
they will score 1 additional Health Point for each Steroid Hormone Receptor Card they 
have already completed.
ENZYME CARDS
Enzyme Cards (in this game) do NOT require the use of a Transport Vesicle 
Disk. Rather, they are completed by first placing a flask in the Free Ribosome 
spot to trade black mRNA resources for red Protein resources, and then by 
placing a flask in the Cytoplasm spot. A player will then reveal the Enzyme Card 
they are completing, pay the required Protein resources (and Carbohydrate 
resource if required by that Enzyme Card) from their personal resource stock, 
pay the ATP indicated on that Enzyme Card and then gain the Health Points 
shown on that completed Enzyme Card. 
Completed Enzyme Cards should be overlapped and flared so all other players can 
see them. Sets of Enzyme Cards will score additional points at the end of the game, 
as shown on the bottom of each Enzyme Card (see Scoring for details).
For example, if a player has two completed 
Steroid Hormone Receptor Cards, they will 
move up 4 Health Points each time an opposing 
player completes a Steroid Hormone Card. In 
the same way, if a player has three completed 
Steroid Hormone Receptor Cards, they will 
move up 6 Health Points each time an opposing 
player completes a Steroid Hormone Card.
Player 1 
completes 
a Steroid 
Hormone
Player 2 
receives
6 health 
points

ALCOHOL DETOXIFICATION CARDS
Alcohol Detoxification Cards are completed by placing a flask in the Alcohol 
Detoxification spot (within the Smooth ER) and paying the ATP cost indicated 
on that card. After completing an Alcohol Detoxification Card, a player will gain 
one Health Point. 
At the end of the game, the players with the most Alcohol Detox will gain additional 
points (see End Game Points from Alcohol Detoxification Cards for more details).
ADDITIONAL RESOURCE CARDS
Additional Resource Cards may be kept in a player’s hand 
and played at any time during a player’s turn. Once the card 
is played, that player should immediately take the number 
of resources shown on the card and place that card in the 
Cell Component Card discard pile. 
GOAL CARDS
After a player places a flask on the spot in Laureates in Biology, they may choose 
to place a single Goal Marker on any available Goal Card. Once a Goal Marker has 
been placed, it may never be moved, and a player may never place both of their Goal 
Markers on the same Goal Card. A maximum of two Goal Markers may be placed 
on each Goal Card. 
Goal Cards may score a player points in two ways: 
1. During the Game: The first Goal Marker placed on each Goal Card immediately 
 awards that player 3 Health Points. (The second Goal Marker placed on a Goal 
 Card receives no immediate Health Points.) 
2. During End Game Scoring: If a player has placed a Goal Marker on a Goal Card, 
 and that player has completed any number of Cell Component Cards indicated on 
 that Goal Card, they will score End Game points according to the description on 
 that Goal Card.
EVENT CARDS
The purpose of the Event Cards is to change up the game each round. During 
Phase 2 of each round, 1 Event card will be flipped face up and will affect the 
game in some way. 
There are three types of Event Cards in the Base Game (4 types of Event Cards 
if including the Virus Expansion): 
(1) Boost, 
(2) Reduce ATP Cost, and 
(3) Toxicity
 

Boost
A Boost Event Card adds 1 resource to a 
specific area of the board. That resource 
is awarded for free to the first player to 
place on any spot within that location, 
in addition to the resources that spot 
usually awards. Any resources added to 
a specific area of the board remain in 
that area until awarded.
REDUCE ATP COST 
A Reduce ATP Cost Event Card reduces the 
cost of each Cell Component Card purchased 
that round by 1 ATP. If a player places on 
the Free Spot when this Event Card is active, 
they may also take 1 ATP from the general 
resource stock.
Toxicity 
A Toxicity Event Card forces players 
to return macromolecule resources 
from their personal resource stock 
to the general resource stock. If any 
player has 5 or more of any certain 
macromolecule, they lose 1. If they 
have 7 or more, they lose 2. If they 
have 10 or more, they lose 4.
GREY FLASKS
Before a player places their flask during their turn, they may pay 4 ATP to place 
a Grey Flask first. (This is in addition to their normal flask placement). After 
paying 4 ATP, a player may take an available Grey Flask from the Grey Flask 
Area of the board and place that Grey Flask in any flask placement spot (available 
or unavailable), and then take the action associated with that spot.
ENDING THE GAME
The last round is signaled when the last Event Card is flipped face-up. Players should play through Phase 1 
 one last time and then skip directly to Scoring.
SCORING
At the end of the game, players will score additional End Game points for macromolecule resources still in 
their personal resource stock, Alcohol Detoxification Cards completed, Enzyme Cards completed, as well as 
any Goal Cards on which they’ve placed any of their Goal Markers during the game. Players should move their 
Health Marker along the Health Track for all End Game Points earned.
END GAME POINTS FROM MACROMOLECULE RESOURCES
Before scoring macromolecules resources, a player may collect all macromolecule resources remaining on 
any of their Transport Vesicle Disks still on the board, and add these to their personal resource stock. 
Macromolecule resources (Protein, Lipid, mRNA, and Carbohydrate) in a player’s personal resource stock 
earn that player 1 point for every 4 mRNA or 4 Lipids, 1 point for every 3 Proteins and 1 point for every 
2 Carbohydrates. 
Restrictions: A player may pay to place only one Grey Flask per turn and 
must be able to take the action associated with that spot. Only Grey Flasks 
in the Grey Flask area are available for this action. 

END GAME POINTS FROM ALCOHOL DETOXIFICATION CARDS
The player with the most Alcohol Detox gains an additional 8 Health Points, the player with the second 
most gains an additional 5 Health Points, and the player with the third most gains an additional 2 Health 
Points. The most Alcohol Detox is determined by adding together the number of ATP on all of the Alcohol 
Detoxification Cards completed by that player (Alcohol Detoxification Cards still in a player’s hand do not add 
to this total). If a player has completed no Alcohol Detoxification Cards, they automatically score no points 
for Alcohol Detoxification Cards. 
For example, a player who built three separate Alcohol Detoxification 
Cards requiring 2 ATP would have an equal amount of Alcohol Detox 
as the player who built two Alcohol Detoxification Cards both 
requiring 3 ATP. 
In case of a tie, the tying player with the most completed Alcohol 
Detoxification Cards wins. If there is still a tie, tying players should 
add the points allotted to the position of those two tying players and 
the position directly below it and divide those points equally between 
them, rounding down to the nearest whole number. In case of a three 
way tie, add the position of those tying players and all positions below 
it, and divide those points equally among the tying players, again 
rounding down. 
In a 2 player game, the player with the most Alcohol Detox will gain 
6 Health Points, and the player with the second most Alcohol Detox 
will gain 3 Health Points.
END GAME POINTS FROM ENZYME SETS
Sets consist of Enzyme Cards of different colors. Any sets of Enzyme Cards a player has completed 
during the game earn End Game points according to the table below:
# OF UNIQUE 
 ENZYMES COMPLETED
HEALTH POINTS EARNED
2 3 4 5 
2 5 9 14 
Two Enzyme Cards of the same color may not belong to the same set; however a player may score points for two sets.
END GAME POINTS FROM GOAL CARDS
If a player has placed a Goal Marker on a Goal Card, and that player has completed any number of the Cell 
Component Cards indicated on that Goal Card, they will score End Game points according to the description 
on that Goal Card. Each player should reference the Goal Card(s) on which they have placed their Goal 
Marker(s) for details on points scored.
FINAL SCORING
Whoever has the most total Health Points wins the game! 
If there is a tie, the player with the most completed Cell Component Cards wins (only Alcohol Detoxification 
Cards, Enzyme Cards, Hormone Cards, and Hormone Receptor Cards count). And if there is still a tie, the 
tying player in the last position from the player holding the First Player Marker wins the tie!
+5 POINTS DURING 
END GAME SCORING
3 Completed 
Enzyme Cards
=
Most cards wins the tie
Two players tied for 2nd
Current position (5) +
Position Below (2) = 7
Divide by 2 = 3

2 PLAYER RULE MODIFICATIONS
GAME SETUP DIFFERENCES
 
Remove 3 Alcohol Detoxification Cards at random from the Cell Component Card deck, 
 before dealing 3 to each player or filling the Cell Component Card Area with cards. 
 
Remove 2 Event Cards at random from the Event Deck before placing it near the game board.
GAMEPLAY DIFFERENCES
1 FLASK IN EACH PLACEMENT SPOT
In a 2 player game, a maximum of 1 flask is allowed in each placement area on the board, each round. Each 
area has a distinct tan border with grey text, e.g. Nucleus, Rough ER, and Mitochondria are different areas. 
There are three exceptions to this: the Mitochondria, the Smooth ER and the Cell Component Card Area. 
Exceptions:
 
• In the Cell Component Card Area, all four spots may 
 
 be occupied, just like in a 3-5 player game. Thus, there 
 is no difference in the way the Cell Component Card 
 Area functions. 
 
• In the Mitochondria, any two out of the three total 
 
 spots may be occupied.
 
• In the Smooth ER, two spots may be occupied - a 
 
 maximum of one in the Lipid Synthesis location and one 
 
 in Alcohol Detoxification/Steroid Hormone Synthesis.
For example, if one flask has been placed in the [3] spot of the 
Nucleus, a second flask may not be placed in the [2] spot of the 
Nucleus that round, because they are both in the same Nucleus 
area. Or, if a flask has been placed in the Rough ER, Golgi 
Apparatus, or either of the Plasma Membrane areas, a second 
flask may not be placed in any of those areas that round.
 
A player may still purchase and place a Grey Flask 
in ANY occupied or unoccupied spot, even if another 
flask has already been placed in that placement area 
or placement spot. 
REMOVE THE 2 LEFT-MOST CELL COMPONENT CARDS
In Step 3 of Phase 2, instead of discarding the one left-most Cell Component Card from the Cell 
Component Card Area, discard the two left-most cards. 
SCORING DIFFERENCES FOR 2 PLAYERS
END GAME POINTS FROM ALCOHOL DETOX CARDS 
In a 2 player game, the player with the most Alcohol Detox will gain 6 Health Points, and the player with 
the second most Alcohol Detox will gain 3 Health Points.
Placement Spot Restrictions

VIRUS EXPANSION

VIRUS EXPANSION RULES
For 2 - 5 players
GAME SETUP - MODIFICATIONS TO THE BASE GAME 
INCORPORATE THE FOLLOWING STEPS INTO THE BASE GAME SETUP
Board: In Step 1 of Base Game Setup, place the board with the Virus Expansion side face up. 
Event Deck: In Step 2 of Base Game Setup, shuffle the 12 Event Cards like normal, but if playing 
a 2 or 3 player game randomly remove 5 Event Cards, if playing a 4 player game remove 3 Event 
Cards, and if playing a 5 player game remove 1 Event Card. Return these removed Event Cards to 
the box without looking at them. Then, shuffle the 3 Virus Event Cards into the remaining Event 
Deck and continue setup as usual. 
Goal Cards: In Step 3 of Base Game Setup, shuffle the 1 Immune Response and the 1 Virus Attack 
Goal Cards in with the other five Goal Cards from the Base Game. Then continue setup by placing a 
number of these Goal Cards face up above the game board, equal to the number of players plus 1.
In a 2 or 3 player game, if both Virus Expansion Goal Cards come up, replace one at random with a 
different Goal Card.
Cell Component Deck: In Step 5 of Base Game Setup, after you have dealt each player 3 Cell 
Component Cards, shuffle the 6 Virus Attack Cards in with the Cell Component Card deck. 
Continue set up as usual.
NOW, PERFORM THESE TWO ADDITIONAL STEPS: 
Expansion Step 1: Give each player one Player Mat and 3 Antibody Markers (tan resources). Each player 
should place one of these Antibody Markers on each of the three spots marked “0” on the bottom of each 
of their Virus strain columns (Ebola, Influenza and Rhinovirus). 
In a 2 Player game, set up one additional Player Mat (according to Expansion Step 1) near the game 
board to act as a third “dummy” player. 
Expansion Step 2: Place the 5 Antibody Dice somewhere near the top of the game board. 
EVENT CARDS 
There are three different Event Cards in the Virus Expansion, each 
representing a different Virus strain: Ebola, Influenza and Rhinovirus. 
 
When a Virus Event Card is flipped face up from the Event Deck, it 
becomes active and players should follow the instructions explained 
in the When Viruses Attack section. 
GOAL CARDS 
There are two different Goal Cards in the Virus Expansion: 1 Immune 
Response Goal Card and 1 Virus Attack Goal Card. Rules for the Virus 
Expansion Goal Cards are the same as for the Base Game Goal Cards. 

PLAYER MATS 
Each player mat features two main sections: The Immune Response Area 
and the Resource Area. 
Immune Response Area: This section has three columns marked at the 
bottom with Ebola, Influenza or Rhinovirus. The position of a player’s 
Antibody Marker within a column indicates the number of antibodies 
that player has built up to combat a virus of that strain’s type. (See 
When Viruses Attack section for details.) 
Resource Area: This section has areas indicating where a player may 
store their Flasks and Goal Markers not in use, and their personal 
resource stock (macromolecule resources and ATP). 
WHEN VIRUSES ATTACK
When a Virus Event Card is flipped face up from the Event Deck, or when a Virus Attack Card 
is purchased from the Cell Component Card Area, that Virus Card becomes active immediately 
and all players should immediately follow the steps below. 
WHEN A VIRUS EVENT CARD IS FLIPPED DURING THE EVENT PHASE: 
All players roll a number of Antibody Dice according to their current position 
on the Health Track. If their Health Marker is in the red section, they will roll 
one die. If their Health Marker is in the yellow section, they will roll 2 dice, 
and if their Health Marker is in the green section, they will roll 3 dice.
To their roll, each player adds the number of antibodies 
from the column of their Player Mat that matches the 
attacking Virus strain. This sum is each player’s 
Antibody Response. 
All players compare their Antibody Response and 
gain or lose resources accordingly. (See the Antibody 
Response Resource Allocation section for details) 
After all players have completed Steps 1-3, each player 
will have the option to pay ATP from their personal 
resource stock to gain antibody matching that attacking 
Virus strain, starting with the player holding the First 
Player Marker and moving in player order. 
+ 2 Ebola Antibodies = Antibody Response of 6
For each ATP paid, a player moves their Antibody 
Marker up that strain’s column by one level 
(2 antibodies). 
ll 
CELL COMPONENT CARDS 
There are six Virus Attack Cell Component Cards: 2 Ebola, 2 Influenza 
and 2 Rhinovirus Virus Strain Cards. When a player purchases a Virus 
Attack Card from the Cell Component Card Area, that card immediately 
takes effect and players should follow the instructions explained in the 
When Viruses Attack section. 
Note: this 
symbol = 6

Only the player who purchased the Virus Attack Card may pay additional ATP to move their Antibody 
Marker up the column matching that attacking Virus strain (at a rate of 1 ATP per 2 antibody). 
All other players must lose 1 Health Point on the Health Track. (Players can go negative on the Health Track.)
Now follow Steps 1-4 of “When A Virus Event Card is Flipped During the Event Phase” to determine how 
many resources a player will gain or lose. 
 
ANTIBODY RESPONSE RESOURCE ALLOCATION
In a 2-3 player game: 
In a 4 player game: 
A player gaining resources may choose any combination of ATP, mRNA, and Lipids from 
the general resource stock. A player losing a resource may choose to lose any resource from 
their personal resource stock or lose 1 Health Point. 
Lose 1 resource or 1 Health Point 
Player with Third Highest Antibody Response
Gain 2 resources
Lose 1 resource or 1 Health Point
In a 5 player game: 
Player with Third Highest Antibody Response
Player with Fourth Highest Antibody Response
Gain 4 resources 
Gain 2 resources
Lose 0 resources
WHEN A VIRUS ATTACK CARD IS PURCHASED FROM THE CELL COMPONENT CARD AREA: 
In a 2 Player game, the third “dummy” player rolls a number of Antibody Dice according to the current 
position of the player lowest on the Health Track, and adds the number of antibodies from the column 
of their player mat just like all other players. 
After all players have added up their Antibody Response, reference the Antibody Response Resource 
Allocation chart for 2-3 players. Any resources gained or lost by the “dummy” player remain in the 
general resource stock. 
After all players have completed Step 4, move the Antibody Marker on the “dummy” Player Mat 
up one level (2 antibodies) on the column that matches the attacking Virus strain. 
If there is a tie for Antibody Response, the first player, or the player closest to the First Player 
wins the tie. In a 2 player game, if a player ties with the “dummy” player, the “dummy” player wins. 

Example: Player 1 purchases a Virus Attack Card (Influenza 
Strain) from the Cellular Component Card Area, then 
decides to pay 2 additional ATP to move his Antibody 
Marker up 4 (a total of 2 levels) on the Influenza column 
of his Player Mat. 
All other players lose 1 Health Point on the Health Track. 
Each player now rolls a number of Antibody Dice according 
to their current position on the Health Track. 
Player 1 currently has 14 Health Points, and is thus in the 
yellow section of the Health Track, so he rolls 2 Antibody 
Dice. He rolls a 4 and 3 on his Antibody Dice, and simply 
adds the 4 from his Influenza antibodies on his Player Mat, 
giving him an Antibody Response of 11. 
Player 2’s Antibody Response is 12, and Player 3’s Antibody 
Response is 9. 
Player 2 has the highest Antibody Response, so she gains 3 
resources from the general resource stock. Player 1 has the 
second highest Antibody Response, so he gains 1 resource. 
Player 3 has the lowest Antibody Response, so she loses 1 
resource from her personal resource stock. 
Now all players have the option to pay ATP from their 
personal resource stock to gain antibody on the Influenza 
column of their Player Mat. Player 1 and Player 2 decide 
not to pay any ATP. Then Player 3 decides to pay 2 ATP 
to move up 4 more antibodies on her Influenza column. 
PLAYER 1
PLAYER 1 
ROLLS 2 DICE
4 + 3 + 4 = ANTIBODY 
RESPONSE OF 11
PLAYER 2’S ANTIBODY RESPONSE = 12 
PLAYER 1’S ANTIBODY RESPONSE = 11
PLAYER 3’S ANTIBODY RESPONSE = 9
PLAYER 2 GAINS
3 RESOURCES
PLAYER 1 GAINS
1 RESOURCE
PLAYER 3 LOSES 
1 RESOURCE
PAYS 2 
ATP TO 
MOVE UP 4
PLAYER 3
PAYS 2 
ATP TO 
MOVE UP 4

RULES FOR THE EPIGENETIC MODIFICATION CARDS
Each Epigenetic Modification Card gives a player a unique ability that they may use throughout the game. 
We recommend you don’t use the Epigenetic Modification Cards until players have played Cytosis and are 
already familiar with the game. The Epigenetic Modification Cards may be used with the Base Game of 
Cytosis or combined with the Virus Expansion. 
GAME SET UP – MODIFICATIONS TO THE BASE GAME
When setting up the Base Game with Epigenetic Modification Cards, determine the First Player before 
Step 4, instead of waiting until Step 8. Then, shuffle the seven Epigenetic Modification Cards and deal 
three to the First Player. That player should secretly read the three cards and choose one of them to keep. 
Next, that player must replace the chosen card by adding another Epigenetic Modification Card, at 
random, to the two remaining, then pass these three cards to the player on their left.
 
This player should secretly choose one of the three, then follow the same process of replacing the chosen 
card with a new card, and passing to the player on their left, until all players have chosen one Epigenetic 
Modification Card. Remaining Epigenetic Modification Cards should be placed back in the box. 
 
Players should now place their chosen Epigenetic Modification Card face up in front of them for all 
players to see. 
Game Setup now continues as usual with Step 4 of Base Game Setup. (See Page 2.)
EPIGENETIC MODIFICATION CARDS
Each player will keep their chosen Epigenetic Modification Card for the entire game. A player may only 
use their unique ability on their turn, UNLESS their Epigenetic Modification Card indicates otherwise. 
The player holding this card may trade ATP for Lipids or mRNA at a rate of 1 ATP 
for 1 Lipid or 1 mRNA, and trade ATP for Carbohydrates at a rate of 2 ATP per 1 
Carbohydrate. This card does NOT allow a player to trade macromolecules for ATP. 
This ability may be used as many times per turn as a player wishes, provided they 
have the ATP to trade. 
The player holding this card may pay 2 ATP to secretly look at the top 3 Cell 
Component Cards from the deck. In addition, they MAY pay 2 more ATP in order to 
place one of these cards in their hand. This player must then place the unchosen cards 
back on top of the Cell Component Card deck in any order they choose. This ability 
may be performed only ONCE per turn. 
Note: If playing with the Virus Expansion and a Virus Attack Card is chosen, the 
chosen Virus Attack Card must be played immediately, following the Virus 
Expansion Rules. 
The player holding this card may collect 1 additional macromolecule or ATP every 
time they place on a numbered resource collection spot on the board. For example, if 
a player places on a [3] spot, they may collect 4 of that resource, and if a player places 
on a [2] spot, they may collect 3 of that resource. (Carbohydrates still cost 1 ATP for 
each Carbohydrate taken.)

The player holding this card may pay 3 ATP to place a Grey Flask, rather than paying 
the usual 4 ATP. Rules for placing the Grey Flask are the same as in the Base Game. 
Before the First Player places their first Flask at the beginning of a round, the player 
holding this card should be given the choice to pay 1 ATP in order to place one 
of their Flasks before the First Player places their first Flask. Normal placement 
position then resumes, starting with the player holding the First Player Marker. This 
ability may be used only once per round. 
For example, if the player with this Epigenetic Modification Card is currently the 
First Player, they may pay 1 ATP to place their first Flask, and then take their normal 
placement as first player (by placing a second Flask) before the second player places 
their first Flask. 
At the beginning of every round, the player holding this card may collect 1 ATP, 1 
mRNA OR 1 Lipid from the general resource stock and place this resource into their 
The player holding this card purchases their Cell Component Card for free every time 
they place a Flask in the Cell Component Card Area.

GAME DESIGN
GAME DEVELOPMENT
Shelley Spence
ART AND GRAPHIC DESIGN
Tomasz Bogusz
RULEBOOK DESIGN
Sarah Lafser
SCIENCE ADVISORS
Elizabeth Gurnack
Edward Brian Rader
KEY PLAYTESTERS
Courtney Falk
Jonathan Grothe
Bharath Kishore
Jonathan Leggo
Preston Lingle
Edward Brian Rader
Susan Rice
Sunny Singh
John Walker
SPECIAL THANKS
Mike Bialecki
Upkar Gata-Aura
Edmond Gravel
Gábor Géza Kiss
Jonathan Leggo
Iñigo Maestro
Oglik Naes
Petar Perisin
Dr. Jörn Peuser
Kenneth Stuart
Jonas Thierry
Wyverns Rose
SCIENCE CONTENT 
COMPILATION
Stephen J. Bush, PhD
Dr. Karl Jenkinson, PhD 
Nicole M. Milkovic, PhD 
Jennifer C. Schroeder, PhD 
Dr. Bryan G. White 
SCIENCE CONTENT 
EDITORS
Dr. Michael Bialecki, PhD
Mike Christensen 
Zach Grimes 
L.A. Johnson PhD, DSc
Gábor Géza Kiss 
Aitan Magence 
Sarita Menon, PhD 
Myra Nati, MPH 
Dr. Duong T. Nguyen 
Christopher Olivera, PhD 
Erin Syverson, MGC, CGC 
Annalisa VanHook, PhD 
Dr. Jonathan Chi Man Wong 
Dr. Fabian Yu, PhD