Game design Madoka Kitao – Art by Silvia Romeral Andrés – Rulebook © Néstor Romeral Andrés 
 
 
 
A strategy board game for 2 players designed by 
Madoka Kitao 
and illustrated by 
Silvia Romeral Andrés 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
どうぶつしょうぎ - Let's Catch the Lion! (a.k.a. Dōbutsu 
Shōgi, which means "animal shogi") is a simple version of 
Shogi. Both players have only four pieces – chick, giraffe, 
elephant and lion – and they're trying to either catch the 
opponent's lion or move their own lion to the other side. 
 
MATERIAL 
 
This is what you need in order to play Let's Catch the 
Lion!: 
 
A 3x4 board (cells indicated in darker blue) 
8 tiles (animals): 2 tiles each of Elephant, Lion, Giraffe 
and Chick/Cock (double sided). 
A cotton case. 
 
GAME PREPARATION 
 
Determine the starting player. Setup the board like this: 
 
 
 
Notice that the chick/cock tiles are placed with the chick 
image facing up. 
 
The animals pointing upwards are your team (first two 
rows). The animals pointing downwards are you opponent’s 
team (farthest two rows). 
 
The row nearest to you is your ‘home’. The row nearest to 
your opponent is his ‘home’. 
 
Kindly salute your opponent in Japanese: ‘Onegai-
shimasu’ before starting the game. 
 
GAME RULES 
 
Players alternate turns moving one of their animals until 
any of these two things happen: 
 
One of the players captures the opponent’s lion (say 
‘Catch!’). The owner of the captured lion loses the 
game. 
 
One of the lions reaches the opponent’s home (say 
‘Reach!). The owner of the lion wins the game. 
 
There can only be one animal per space. Passing is not 
allowed. 
 
After the game ends, say ‘Arigatou-gozaimashita’, which 
means ‘Thank you very much’. 
 
 
 
The opponent’s home (indicated in red) 
 
HOW PIECES MOVE 
 
The movement options for each animal are indicated with 
small dots engraved on the tiles. Here is how they move: 
 
 
 
The lion can move 1 space in any direction. 
 
You cannot place your lion on your opponents last square if 
it would put you in check. 

 
Game design Madoka Kitao – Art by Silvia Romeral Andrés – Rulebook © Néstor Romeral Andrés 
 
 
 
The elephant can only move 1 space diagonally 
 
 
 
The giraffe can only move 1 space up, down, left or right. 
 
 
 
The cock can move 1 space in any direction except 
diagonally backwards 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The chick can only move 1 space upwards 
 
 
 
THE CHICK 
 
When your Chick reaches the opponent’s home as a 
result of a movement it is flipped over so it shows the Cock. 
 
Remember that your tiles always point upwards. 
 
CAPTURING 
 
When one of your animals reaches a space occupied by an 
opponent’s animal you capture it and it becomes a member 
of your team. Place it outside the board next to you and 
pointing towards your opponent. You can re-enter it into the 
board later (see below). 
 
Exception: When a cock is captured it becomes a chick 
again (place it next to you and outside the board as usual). 
 
ENTERING ANIMALS INTO THE BOARD 
 
On your turn, instead of moving one of your animals, you 
can enter the board any of your team members that are 
waiting outside the board. Place it on any empty space. 
 
Exception: The cock cannot be entered into the board, as it 
is replaced by the chick when captured. 
 
Exception: If you enter a chick into the board by placing it 
on the opponent’s home it does not ‘grow up’ (it is not 
converted into a cock). 
 
DRAWS 
 
If a game position is repeated 3 times the game ends in a 
draw.