Normandy, June 6th, 1944, 0817
Omaha Beach ( Easy Red Sector )
1st Infantry Division ( Big Red One )
16th Regimental Combat Team ( RCT ), G Company
	
And they called this sector “ Easy Red ” ! As part of Omaha’s 
second wave, our landing craft bounces on the angry sea toward the 
smoky beach. Surrounded by my nervous comrades and the stench of 
their sea sickness, all I could see ahead were broken bodies laying on 
an apocalyptic landscape. German shells struck like thunder and 
unrelenting machine gun fire riddled the sand in a rain of lead.
 When the gate of our landing craft lowered I dashed behind an 
anti tank barrier, partially shielded by its steel beams. The rest of the 
men scattered everywhere, desperately seeking protection. My platoon 
leader fell face down in the mud, a hole where his chest used to be. Up 
on the bluffs, nested in a fortified bunker, vicious M G42 s mowed down 
everything that moved.
 Knee deep in the bloody water, I looked around for guidance, but 
all I saw was terror on the faces of my colleagues. Someone had to do 
something! Knowing full well these soldiers would not budge without 
proper leadership, I decided to take matters into my own hands. I 
squeezed my rifle tightly, mumbled a prayer, and signaled the men, 
“ FOLLOW ME ! ”

OVERVIEW
	
Players are Allied soldiers trying to organize units for an attack 
against the machine gun nest. Each player starts the game with a unit of 
a few soldiers and nothing else. As the game progresses, he will collect 
resources and advance on the beach, sector by sector, as his unit grows 
stronger and deadlier. He will succeed… or die trying.
	
D-Day Dice is a cooperative game, where all players must help each 
other against the common enemy. If one player loses, the game is lost for 
everyone.
COMPONENTS
• 8 Battle Maps Double sided 
(Exercise Tiger/Omaha Beach, Utah Beach/Gold Beach, Juno Beach/Sword 
Beach, Pointe-du-Hoc/Merville Battery)
• 4 Resource Cards with dials
(in 4 different colors, 1 for each player)
• 4 sets of special dice (6 per player:
2 Red, 2 White and 2 Blue) 
• 4 decks of 13 Regular Specialist cards
(in 4 different colors, 1 for each player)
GAME START
 	Players select their Unit color and the corresponding Specialist deck, 
Unit marker and Resource Card. Then, a Battle Map is selected (new players 
should start with “Exercise Tiger”). All players place their Unit markers on 
the Map’s starting position (usually “Sector 1”), with 1 chevron 	
displayed. As the Units advance, their respective markers will move on the 
Map to keep track of their position.
	
Then, players must look at the list of available Specialists and Items 
for their selected Battle Map (each has a different mix, as specified in the 
Battle Map’s description at the back of this book). The available Items and 
Unique Specialists are placed in the “Pool” (on the table, accessible to every 
one) and the available Regular Specialist cards are drawn by each player from 
their own deck (and kept in hand). The unavailable Items and Specialists are 
placed back in the game box. Award cards are also placed on the table, but 
they are not part of the Pool (see “AWARDS,” p. 6).
	
Finally, players note the starting resources printed on the Map, 
according to their starting position, and record them on their respective 
Resource Cards. 
TURN SEQUENCE
 Gameplay is simultaneous. All players go through the turn sequence 
together. The turn is divided into 5 phases. Each phase must be completed in 
order by all players before moving on to the next phase. 
Phase 1:	
Roll the Dice (until you have your “Final Tally”)
Phase 2:	 Upkeep (count “Red, White & Blue” bonuses, earn Awards, 
adjust Resource Cards & change the face of Unit markers)
Phase 3:	
Recruit Specialists/Find Items/ (also Trade Resources/
Purchase Awards)
Phase 4:	
Move & fulfill new Sector requirements (if applicable)
Phase 5:	 Combat (lose Soldiers from your Unit according to your 
Sector)
Phase 1  ROLL THE DICE
	
Every turn a player rolls 6 dice. On the 1st roll (and only then), 2 
of these dice must be “Locked” and cannot be re-rolled. The player can keep 
or re-roll any or all the remaining 4 dice for the 2nd roll. On the 3rd and 
final roll, any or all of the remaining 4 dice may be re-rolled. The only dice 
that can never be re-rolled are the 2 Locked dice. Players can consult each 
other and discuss while rolling their dice.
	
When all rolling is finished, the dice on the table are the “Final Tally.” 
Players must take note of every die and proceed to the next phase.
• 4 player aids
• 4 Unit markers 
(in 4 different 
colors, 1 for each 
player)
• 4 regular six-sided dice
(d6)
• 11 Unique 
 Specialists
• 28 Item cards
 10 Regular 18 Special
• 6 Vehicle cards
• 12 Award cards
 
Dice RESULTS 
COMMON MAP SYMBOLS 
TURN SEQUENCE
SKULL (cancels another die) 
STAR (for Specialists) 
PHASE 1 ■ ROLL DICE 
 Roll 6 dice. Lock 2 dice, re-roll the rest up to 2 more 
 times until you have your “ Final Tally ”. 
PHASE 2 ■ UPKEEP/ADJUST UNIT MARKERS 
 Count the resources of your final tally and note them. If you 
 obtain a straight, choose 1 Award. Adjust your Unit marker 
 1 face (if there’s no more chevrons to add you must move). 
PHASE 3 ■ RECRUIT SPECIALISTS/FIND ITEMS/ 
 PURCHASE AWARDS/TRADE RESOURCES 
 Spend Stars to recruit 1 Specialist and Item Points to 
 find 1 Item (never more than 1 per turn, but you may use 
 as many as you want). Awards cost 6 Courage (random draw). 
PHASE 4 ■ MOVEMENT 
 You can only stay up to 3 turns in any Sector. You can 
 only move forward (“Advance”) or laterally, and you 
 can never visit the same Sector twice. If you decide/are 
 forced to move, you must fulfill all the requirements (if any) 
 of the new Sector. If you move over Landmines, you must 
 roll 1d6 to see how many Soldiers you lose. If you Advance, 
 spend the Courage indicated on the map. 
PHASE 5 ■ COMBAT 
 Lose a number of Soldiers equal to the DEF of your Sector 
 (+ Machine Gun Fire if applicable). 
All Units play simultaneously, and must follow each 
Phase of the turn together. 
CAN’T STAY HERE 
You must move out during the next Phase 4. 
STARTING SECTOR 
Add the printed resources to your Unit at the start of the 
game. If more than 1 Starting Sector is present, you may 
choose where you start. 
REQUIREMENT: 
SACRIFICE XXX TO MOVE HERE 
Sacrifice said Specialist the moment you move into the 
the Sector. You must already have that Specialist in your 
Unit in order to do so. 
REQUIREMENT: 
NEED XXX TO MOVE HERE 
In order to move to the Sector, you must already have 
that Specialist in your Unit (you can’t recruit him later on). 
BONUS PER TURN 
The specified result is added to your Final Tally every turn. 
That result does not have a color, and may not be traded 
with the Lieutenant Specialist. 
PENALTY PER TURN 
The specified result must be deducted from your Final 
Tally every turn. If you do not obtain this result in your 
Final Tally, ignore this penalty. 
1 SOLDIER
2 SOLDIERS
COURAGE (to Advance)
TOOL (for Item Points) 
+ 24 Item Points for
every after that
1 x 
= 1 Item Point 
ITEM POINTS
Add the number of Tools 
in your Final Tally and gain 
Item Points according 
to this table: 
= 3 Item Points 
= 6 Item Points 
= 12 Item Points 
= 24 Item Points 
= 48 Item Points 
 DEAD MAN’S GIFT 
 Gain +20 Item Points, and ignore the negative effects 
of these Skulls (they don’t cancel other dice). 
 LEADERSHIP 
 Add 1 WHITE result to your Final Tally: this can trigger 
another RWB bonus OR another Unit gains +2 Courage. 
 REINFORCEMENTS 
 Add +4 Soldiers to your Unit & +4 Soldiers to another Unit. 
 FRESH TROOPS 
 Gain +6 Soldiers. 
 BATTLE CRY 
 Gain +3 Soldiers. OR, if you move this turn, ignore all 
requirements of the Sector you move to and don’t spend 
Courage to get there. Landmines are not ignored this way, 
and combat occurs normally once you have moved. 
 SPECIAL FIND 
 You can find a used Item (you must till pay its cost in 
Item Points OR gain +2 Stars. 
RED, WHITE & BLUE (RWB)
2 x 
3 x 
4 x 
5 x 
6 x 

S 

DIE RESULTS
SKULL (Cancels another die)
STAR (For recruiting Specialists)
1 SOLDIER (To expand your Unit)
2 SOLDIERS (To expand your Unit)
COURAGE (To Advance)
TOOL (To obtain Item Points)
SKULL (Cancels another die)
 For every Skull a player has in his Final Tally, 1 other die of his 
choice is cancelled (ignore its result for this turn). A Skull cannot cancel 
another Skull. 
STAR (For recruiting Specialists)
 Every Specialist has a specific cost in Stars. When a player has enough 
Stars to recruit a Specialist, that Specialist joins the player’s Unit. A player 
may not recruit more than 1 Specialist per turn. See “SPECIALISTS,” p. 6.
SOLDIERS (To accomplish your mission)
 Add 1 or 2 Soldiers to your Unit, depending on the die result.
COURAGE (To Advance)
 It takes Courage to move toward the Bunker while the enemy is firing.
TOOL (To Obtain Item Points)
 These represent objects collected from fallen comrades, supply bags and 
other sources. 
The number of Tools in a player’s Final Tally will determine how many Item 
Points are gained:
1 x 	
1 Item Point
2 x 	
3 Item Points
3 x 	
6 Item Points
4 x 	
12 Item Points
5 x 	
24 Item Points
6 x 	
48 Item Points
+ 24 Item Points for every after that.
RED, WHITE & BLUE (RWB)
 If a player rolls 3 identical results on 3 dice of different colors, he 
scores a “Red, White & Blue” special bonus (RWB). These bonuses are in 
addition to the dice themselves, they don’t replace them (with the exception 
of Skulls). Many of these bonuses offer 2 different possibilities (separated by 
an “OR”), giving the player the choice depending on his needs. Here are the 
bonuses for each triple result:
= DEAD MAN’S GIFT: You find a fallen soldier’s gear bag. 
Gain +20 Item Points, and ignore the negative effect of these Skulls (they 
don’t cancel any dice).
= LEADERSHIP: Add 1 WHITE result of your choice to your 
Final Tally: this can trigger another RWB bonus OR another Unit gains +2 
Courage.
= REINFORCEMENTS: Add +4 Soldiers to your Unit and +4 
Soldiers to another Unit of your choice.
= FRESH TROOPS: Gain +6 Soldiers.
= BATTLE CRY: Gain +3 Soldiers OR, if you move this turn, 
ignore all the requirements of the Sector you move to and don’t spend Courage 
to get there. Landmines are not ignored in this way, and Combat occurs 
normally once you have moved.
= SPECIAL FIND: You can find a face-down Item of your 
choice (you must still pay its cost in Item Points) OR gain +2 Stars.
Phase 2  UPKEEP
	
After looking at their Final Tally, players note if they are eligible 
for any RWB bonuses or an Award (see below). All RWB bonuses are then 
collected along with all the resources collected by the players in their Final 
Tally. Everything is noted on the players’ respective Resource Cards. All 
resources (Soldiers, Stars, Courage and Tools) accumulate from turn to turn.

	
Also, it is during Phase 2 that players change the face of their Unit 
marker. 
	
	
 Use these icons to indicate how many turns you have spent 	
	
	
 in a Sector. Change the face to an additional chevron each 
upkeep. If three chevrons were already showing during upkeep, change the 
face to . 
use this face to indicate that your Unit must move this turn (see “Phase 
4  MOVING,” p. 9).
use this face to indicate that you will move using a Battle Cry RWB.
use this face when you are in a “Can’t stay here” Sector (see “Phase 4 
 MOVING: ADVANCING,” p. 9).
AWARDS
	
Awards can be obtained in one of two ways:
If a player obtains 1 of each result in his Final Tally (a straight), he 
CHOOSES 1 Award card during Phase 2 or
If, during Phase 3, a player spends 6 Courage, he draws 1 Award card 
AT RANDOM.
	
Certain Battle Maps can also give Awards to Units. See the Battle 
Map descriptions for further details. 
	
Awards are played just like regular Items (see “ITEMS,” p. 7), but 
must be played at the end of any Phase 1 (after the Final Tally is obtained). 
Once used, the Award card is discarded and cannot be earned again for the 
remainder of the game. Once there are no cards left in the Award deck, no 
more Awards can be earned. A Unit cannot draw more than 1 Award per 
turn.
	
When an Award card allows players to recruit a Specialist or find an 
Item, these never count toward the 1-per-turn limit.
 
Phase 3  RECRUIT SPECIALISTS/FIND ITEMS
SPECIALISTS
	
These specially trained soldiers are essential for the survival of a 
Unit. A player must roll Stars on his dice to recruit Specialists. Each one has 
a specific cost (the Medic costs 4 Stars, for example) and a permanent ability 
that affects the Unit he joins (that ability is lost if he dies). Specialists’ 
abilities are cumulative: if you have a Veteran and a Chaplain, for example, 
you’ll get +1 Soldier and +1 Courage for every RWB you obtain!
There are 2 kinds of Specialists: 
Regular Specialists are available to all players (they come in each color).
Unique Specialists are placed in the Pool with the Items.
	
At the beginning of the game, players must look at the list of available 
Specialists according to the Battle Map they have chosen (see the lists at the 
end of this rulebook). All Specialists that are not on this list must be placed 
back in the game box (they cannot be recruited).
	
Once a player collects enough Stars, he can spend them to “recruit” a 
Specialist (only 1 Specialist may be recruited per turn per player). Subtract 
the cost of the Specialist from your Resource Card, take the Specialist card 
from your hand or the Pool and place it in front of you, face-up. This 
Specialist is now part of your Unit.
	
Specialists also count as Soldiers, so a player can choose to lose them 
during combat (see “Phase 5  COMBAT,” p. 12). Once a Specialist dies, he 
cannot be recruited again. Dead Specialists are placed face-down on the table, 
as a reminder.
ITEMS
	
Tool results generate Item Points. Once a player collects enough Item 
Points, he can spend them to “find” an Item (only 1 Item may be found per 
turn per player). Subtract the cost of the Item from your Item Point total on 
your Resource Card, take the Item card from the Pool and place it in front 
of you face-up. That Item is now part of your “inventory.”
There are 2 kinds of Items:
Regular Items are always available, whatever the Map (except when 
noted).
Special Items are only found on certain Maps (consult the Map’s description 
to find out which are available).
	
	
Items can only be used once, and must be discarded afterward (place 
them face-down in the Pool as a reminder). While Specialists have permanent 
effects, Items have “one-shot” effects that take place immediately after they 
are used. Although players can only find 1 Item per turn, there is no limit 
to how many may be used in a given turn. Items can be used anytime (except 
where noted), and some may be used the instant they are found (like the 
Walkie-Talkie or the Whistle). Please note that Items that affect the DEF 
value or Machine-Gun Fire of Sectors (pp. 10-11) affect all Units present in 
the Sector until the end of the turn.

VEHICLES
	
These can usually be found in specific Sectors on certain Battle Maps 
(like Juno or Sword Beach), or with the “Legion of Merit” Award. A Vehicle 
is found just like an Item (with Item Points), but works more like a Specialist:
Its special power is constant and affects all Units present in its Sector. 
Contrary to Specialists, Vehicles do not count as Soldiers. 
Vehicles can never move over Landmines (even if your Unit ignores 
Landmines).
Vehicles can never enter a Bunker.
A Unit may not have more than 1 Vehicle at the same time.
Vehicles can be traded or they can be abandoned, but once they are 
abandoned, they cannot be found again.
(Vehicles are plainly visible, so they are not “found” in the strictest sense: the 
Item Points you spend are for the various parts necessary to make them run.)
TRADING
 	
Since this is a cooperative game, and the loss of 1 player means a 
defeat for all, Units must help each other whenever possible. The survival of 
the whole operation depends on it!
Trading Resources
	
When 2 or more Units stand in the same Sector, they may trade 
resources between themselves. These include Soldiers, Courage, Stars, Tools, 
Items and Vehicles. Awards and Specialists may never be traded this way 
(except the Messenger). A Unit cannot trade with a Unit that stands in a 
different Sector (unless otherwise noted). A Unit can trade resources for 
nothing in return. Trading can be done at any time. During Combat (see “Phase 
5  COMBAT,” p. 12), trading is allowed after the rolling of Machine Gun 
Fire but before Units suffer casualties, to help them cope with their losses.
Trading Dice with the Lieutenant
	
When using the Lieutenant Specialist, each Unit can trade 1 (and only 1) 
die with 1 other Unit (in a 3-player game, this means 1 player won’t be able 
to trade dice during any given turn). Units don’t need to be in the same 
Sector to trade dice (the Lieutenant communicates with the others by radio 
and hand signals). Note that “virtual” results given by Sectors (p. 10) or 
the “Leadership” RWB cannot be traded away: only real dice can be traded. 
When trading dice with the Lieutenant, make sure you have 2 dice from each 
color before rolling again next Phase 1.
Phase 4  MOVING
	
Battle Maps are split into spaces, called “Sectors.” Units are allowed 
to stay in any Sector for a maximum of 3 turns (sometimes less or more, 
depending on its special attributes). They then must leave. Unit markers have 
chevrons printed on them ( ). When you move your marker into 
a new Sector, it should show 1 chevron, indicating your first turn there. 
During Phase 2, you must change the face of your marker to add 1 chevron. 
Once you cannot add any more chevrons to your marker (i.e, it already 
shows ), change the face to , to remind you that you must move during 
the next Phase 4.
	
When a Unit decides to move (or is forced to), it must move to an 
adjacent Sector (moving its marker and placing it back on its face). 
A Unit can only move once per turn, and can never visit the same Sector 
twice. It can move laterally or forward, but can never go backward. When 
a Unit moves forward (changing rows), it “Advances” (see below). If a Unit 
must move, and cannot do so (whatever the reason), it is wiped out (and the 
players lose the game).
ADVANCING
 A player must spend Courage every time he Advances. The amount of 
Courage necessary depends on the Battle Map (the number is printed at the 
left end of the horizontal line that was crossed, in the Courage icon). Enter-
ing the Bunker also counts as Advancing: the Courage necessary is printed 
on the Bunker in a Courage icon.
SECTORS 	
	
	
	
Sectors on a Battle Map have specific attributes (Bunkers also 
count as Sectors). These attributes are shown as icons (described in the 
Map’s legend) or text. At the bottom of all Maps, the Starting Sectors can be 
identified by this symbol , indicating their respective starting resources. 
Here are the most common Sector attributes:
 		
	
	
Special Instructions: 
		
	
Simply follow the printed instructions. 	
	
	
	
	
 	 Sector instructions take precedence over the 
general rules of the game. Refer to the Map’s description for the full meaning 
of these instructions. When printed in green, instructions are beneficial to 
the players; when printed in red, they are not.
SECTOR 1 

	
	
Can’t stay here
	
	
Sectors with a black Shield are Sectors where you cannot stay 
more than 1 turn. This means you must move out during the next Phase 4 
(movement).
	
 	
Requirement: Must have XXX to move here
	
	
Many Sectors require a Unit to have a specific Specialist to 
move there. A Unit must always have the required Specialist at the moment 
it moves into the Sector. It cannot recruit said Specialist later on. This 
requirement must be met only once: if the required Specialist is killed later 
on, the Unit can stay. The only way to ignore the requirements of a Sector 
is by moving in with a Battle Cry RWB.
	
 	
Requirement: Sacrifice XXX to move here
	
	
When you need to sacrifice a Specialist, you must have that 
specific Specialist in your Unit when you arrive. Sometimes, a sacrifice will 
mention “1 Specialist”, in which case you can choose any Specialist to fulfill 
this requirement. This sacrifice happens during Phase 4  MOVEMENT, and 
is not counted toward the casualties suffered during Phase 5  COMBAT. The 
only way to ignore the requirements of a Sector is by moving with a Battle 
Cry RWB.
	
 	
Bonuses per turn
	
	
Some Sectors give bonuses (depending on the icon present), 
which are added to the Final Tally (Phase 1  ROLL THE DICE). These 
bonus results do not have a specific color, cannot allow a player to obtain 
RWB bonuses and cannot be traded with the Lieutenant.
	
	
Penalties per turn
	
	
Some Sectors will take away specific dice results (depending 
on the icon present). These penalties occur every turn: simply subtract the 
penalty from the Final Tally (Phase 1  ROLL THE DICE). If you don’t obtain 
the specific result in your Final Tally, you don’t suffer the penalty.
DEFENSE (DEF)
	
	
Every Sector has a big number written in a shield: this is 	
	
	
its “Defense” value (DEF). The DEF of a Sector represents 
the 	 number of Soldiers every Unit present must lose. The higher the 
number, the deadlier the Sector (see Phase 5  COMBAT, p. 12). Sometimes, 
the DEF shield will be black instead of white: this simply means that Units 
cannot stay more than 1 turn in that Sector; it has no bearing on the DEF 
itself.
	
	
	
Some Sectors have more than one DEF: in these cases, 	
	
	
	
you must use the first (and lowest) DEF during your 
first Combat turn, then the second one for the second Combat turn, and so on. 
The number of chevrons on your Unit marker indicates which DEF to use.
	
Some Items and effects allow players to reduce the DEF of a Sector 
(examples: Flame-Thrower or Bazooka). When this happens, the DEF value 
changes affect all Units present until the end of the turn. Note that all 
DEF reducing effects are cumulative, but if a Sector’s DEF is reduced below 
0, treat it as being 0.
	
	
MACHINE GUN FIRE (MGF)
 		
Some Sectors are exposed to Machine Gun Fire (MGF). These 	
	
	
Sectors have a special symbol beside their DEF. When Units 
are present in such a Sector, one player rolls a regular six-sided die (d6), 
counts the pips, and adds this result to the DEF of the Sector. 
	
MGF dice can be re-rolled or changed in special circumstances or when 
certain Items are used (like the Binoculars). If something modifies the MGF 
for any reason, all Units present in the Sector benefit or suffer from it.
 	On some Battle Maps, some Sectors have more than 1 MGF symbol. 
When this happens, all the MGF dice are added together and count as one 
result. 
	
	
Special Damage
	
	
Sometimes, MGF may inflict specific damages when a “6” is 	
	
	
rolled. When this is the case, a die icon will appear beside the 
MGF symbol. Simply refer to the legend of the Battle Map to see what the 
Special Damage is (usually, the player will lose 1 Courage or 1 Specialist of 
his choice). Special Damage is activated by any die with a result of 6: in 
Sectors with multiple MGF symbols, you may suffer multiple Special Damage. 
The Special Damage is always added on top of the regular MGF damage.
	
	
LANDMINES
 		
When moving from one Sector to another, if a Unit crosses a 
line with Landmines, it must immediately roll 1 die to determine its losses. A 
Medic can reduce this number by 1, and a Minesweeper can entirely prevent 
this loss. Landmine dice can be modified by some effects (like using the 
Binoculars). If more than 1 Unit crosses the same Landmines during the same 
turn, they must each roll a die (because some Units are luckier than others 
when treading the minefields).
	
	
BARRIERS
	
	
Barriers are impassable: Units can never move over them, even 
with a Battle Cry RWB. Wirecutters are an exception to this rule.
SECTOR 1 
MINESWEEPER 


Phase 5  COMBAT
 Whether a Unit moved or not, it suffers casualties at the hands of the 
enemy during Phase 5. The number of Soldiers Units lose is equal to the 
Defense (DEF) of the Sector (plus Machine Gun Fire if applicable).
CASUALTIES
 Whenever a player suffers casualties (during any Phase), he must 
subtract that number from the total number of Soldiers in his Unit (don’t 
forget that Specialists also count as Soldiers). If there are no more Soldiers 
(or Specialists) in a Unit, it is wiped out and the players lose the game.
WINNING
 	
All players must enter the Bunker and survive with at least 1 Soldier 
to win the game. If even 1 Unit fails to do so, all the players lose the game.
	
When a Unit successfully enters the Bunker, it is considered “safe” 
and no longer in harm’s way (it stops rolling dice). The player places his 
surviving Specialists beside the Bunker. Every surviving Specialist thus placed 
reduces the DEF of the Bunker by 1 point for the remaining Units. If 2 or 
more Units enter the Bunker at the same time, they cannot benefit from each 
other’s Specialists this way. The game ends when the last Unit successfully 
enters the Bunker.
LOSING
 	To succeed in their daring invasion, the Allies need all the men they 
can spare to secure the beach exits. The loss of even 1 Unit is enough to let 
the enemy regroup and jeopardize the landings. 
	
The game ends in defeat for the players if one of these 2 things 
happen:
A player has no more Soldiers including Specialists (Unit is wiped out).
A Unit is forced to move and cannot do so (because of Sector requirements 
or a lack of Courage). 
RULE CONFLICTS AND TIES
	
If you ever encounter a situation where there is conflict between 
various rules or the text of a card and can’t decide which has priority, 
resolve conflicts in the following order of precedence:
	
	
 
	
1 – Awards (override everything else)
	
2 – Items & Vehicles
	
3 – Specialists
	
4 – Sector attributes
	
5 – Game rules (overridden by all of the above)
	
Also, if ever there is a tie between 2 Units who try to do the same 
thing (find an Item, pick up an Item or an Award from a Battle Map, etc.), 
the Unit with the least Soldiers always has priority. If the tie persists, the 
players should roll dice (or settle without rolling).
 OPTIONAL RULES 
SOLITAIRE
	
D-Day Dice plays very well in solitaire play. All of the normal rules 
apply, except for trading (see below). Items, Awards and RWB that mention 
“another Unit” now affect the player (for example, the “Reinforcement” RWB 
now gives the solitaire player 4 + 4 Soldiers). The exception to this is the 
Awards written in 2 parts (like the Memorial Cross), where you should only 
consider the 1st part for yourself. These cards are unavailable in solitaire 
play: the Victoria Cross Award, the War Correspondent Specialist, and the 
following Items: Carrier Pigeon, Dispatch Case and Mortar.
	
To give the solo player an idea of his performance, and a score to 
beat the next time he plays the same Map, the “Victory Points” optional rule 
is recommended (see p. 14).
Solitaire Trading
	
If you recruit the Lieutenant, take a second set of 6 dice and roll it 
once (Skulls are not re-rolled, as they can be useful for the Dead Man’s Gift 
RWB). Then, place aside these dice: they are your “Trading Pool”.
	
The Lieutenant allows you to trade, once per turn, 1 of the dice from 
your Final Tally with 1 from the Trading Pool. This is a good way to get rid 
of unwanted Skulls. Dice need not be the same color. Dice from the Trading 
Pool can only be traded once each (discard them afterward). Make sure you 
have 2 dice from each color before rolling again next Phase 1  ROLL THE 
DICE.
BAZOOKA JOE
	
To make the game less difficult, all Special Items are available, 
regardless of the Map’s list. If you still find the game too hard, make all the 
Specialists available, too.
SOLDIER MULLIGAN (Recommended)
	
If your first roll of any turn doesn’t show any Soldiers, you can re-
roll all 6 dice (once per game).
WELL EQUIPPED
	
All Units start with 10 Item Points. 

WILD SPECIALISTS
	
Instead of following the list of available Specialists for each Battle 
Map, players may want to try other combinations. For this, players need 
to split their Regular Specialist cards in 3 different piles (according to the 
Specialists’ cost). Once this is done, they each draw randomly 3 cards from 
the 2-Star pile, 3 cards from the 3-Star pile and 1 card from the 4-Star 
pile (a total of 7 cards). This will give players different Specialists in every 
Unit. Now, shuffle the Unique Specialists together, draw 1 per player, and 
place them in the Pool.
	
Warning: Your mileage may vary. Wild Specialists can make the game 
very uneven between players, depending on the Map.
THE QUARTERMASTER’S WHIM
	
Instead of following the list of available Special Items for each Battle 
Map, players may want to try other combinations. For this, simply shuffle 
the pile of Special Items and randomly draw 2 Items per player, to be placed 
in the Pool (so, in a 2-player game, draw 4 Special Items). All the Regular 
Items are available, as usual.
	
Warning: Your mileage may vary. The absence of some key Special 
Items may make certain Battle Maps a lot harder (like the Grappling Hook & 
Rope Ladder on Pointe-du-Hoc).
VICTORY POINTS (VP) (Recommended for solitaire)
 	For competitive (or solitaire) players, it can be fun to determine the 
glory of their success or the tragedy of their loss. VP are counted when the 
game ends (either by victory or defeat): this will give players a score to beat 
on their next game.
Successfully entering a Bunker gives 20 VP;
Being the first to successfully enter a Bunker gives and additional 20 
VP (if 2 or more players do this during the same turn, they all win 
20 VP);
Number of the last Sector visited (before Bunker) x 10 VP;
For every Soldier left in a Unit, add 1 VP;
For every Courage Point left in a Unit, add 2 VP;
For every Specialist left in a Unit, add 3 VP;
For earning an Award, add 10 VP (per Award obtained, face-up and 
face-down.)
	
If a solitaire player wins the game, when counting his VP, he counts 
both the bonus for entering a Bunker and for being the first to do so.
	
For example, if a single player wins on Omaha Beach with 5 Soldiers 
left, 2 Courage and 4 Specialists his VP count would be: 
	20 VP for entering + 20 VP for being the first + 150 VP for 
the last Sector (the last Sector before the Bunker is Sector #9) + 
5 VP for Soldiers + 4 VP for Courage + 12 VP for Specialists 
+ 0 for Awards, for a total of 151 VP.
	
	
If you want to know how well you and your partners performed as a 
group, simply count the VP for all players. Your group’s VP total is equal 
to the player with the least VP.
BLIND START
	
At the beginning of the game, players ignore the starting resources 
printed on the Battle Map and simply add 1 Soldier to their resource card. 
Then, each player rolls his Unit marker 4 times to determine his additional 
starting resources, adding the results together:
1, 2 or 3 Chevron 	
1, 2 or 3 Soldiers
1 or 2 Arrows 		
1 or 2 Stars
Shield 	
	
	
Nothing
D-Day Dice is dedicated to all the young men who went above and beyond the 
call of duty on that fateful morning.

 BATTLE MAPS 
	
The Battle Maps are designed to be played in order, as most of them 
introduces new features to the game. For your very first game of D-Day Dice, 
it is highly recommenced to start with “Exercise Tiger” (where the Allies 
practised the Normandy landings in April 1944). Begin with Tiger’s Practice 
Run. Once you are comfortable with the basic dice mechanics, you can try 
Basic Training, which will introduce you to the Specialists. After that, you 
can graduate to Advanced Training. Be sure you can beat Exercise Tiger 
before trying your hand at the “serious” beaches like Omaha and Gold...
Battle Map N-01 : EXERCISE TIGER
Exercise Tiger: PRACTICE RUN
	
For the Practice Run, you will ignore the Sectors’ attributes. The only 
icons that concern you are the DEF value of each Sector (shown in a shield). 
Remember that you cannot stay more than 1 turn in Sectors with a black DEF 
shield (Sectors 4 & 6). You will also ignore all the Machine Gun Fire icons 
and the Landmines.
	
For the dice, your only 2 concerns are Soldiers and Courage. You 
need Soldiers to survive, and Courage to advance. Other dice results are not 
taken into account (for now).
	
The objective is to survive entering the Bunker and the combat that 
immediately follows. If a Unit is killed along the way, the other players must 
continue onto the objective. 
	
You can keep track of the Stars and Item Points you obtain, if you 
want. These will determine who, among the winners, did the best Practice 
Run.
Exercise Tiger: BASIC TRAINING
	
This time, you will ignore the Sectors’ attributes except Machine Gun 
Fire and Landmines. This will add a layer of difficulty and danger. 
	
To help you along the way, you will have access to Specialists. The 
objective is to survive entering the Bunker and the combat that immediately 
follows. If a Unit is killed along the way, the other players must continue 
onto the objective. To determine who did the best Basic Training, you can 
use the Victory Points optional rule among the victors.
	
Since there are no Items in Basic Training, ignore all Tool results 
from your Final Tally (re-roll them if possible). 
Here are the available Specialists in Basic Training:
	
Exercise Tiger: ADVANCED TRAINING
	
Now, we’ll use live ammo! In Advanced Training, all the game features 
and Sectors are fully functional. Items are also accessible.
	
The objective is to survive entering the Bunker and the combat that 
immediately follows. If a Unit is killed along the way, everybody loses. So 
Units will have to help each other in the face of danger. Some additional 
notes:
Sectors 2 & 3: The Specialists mentioned automatically join the 	
	
	
Units (they do not need to be recruited).
Sectors 7 & 10: Any 1 Specialist must be sacrificed to move here.
Sector 9: Although Items may not be found here, they can be 		
	
used here if they were found earlier.
Sector 10: You only gain 1d6 Soldiers when you move here, not 	
	
every turn.
	
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Advanced Training:	
This Map is dedicated to the 638 US servicemen who died on April 28th, 1944, when their 
boat was torpedoed by a German E-Boat on the way to Exercise Tiger.
Bazooka

Battle Map N-02 : OMAHA BEACH
Sector 5: The Special Damage for Machine Gun Fire is “-1 SPECIALIST”. 
This Specialist is lost on top of the regular MGF damage. If you don’t have 
any Specialist in your Unit, ignore this loss.
Sector 7: Although Items may not be found here, they can be used here if 
they were found earlier.
Sector 8: There can never be more than 1 Unit at the same time here. Any 
Unit present must leave to allow another to move in.
Note that the bomb blasts in Sectors 3, 7 & 9 are there for purely aesthetic 
reasons.	
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Omaha Beach: 
Hero
This Map is dedicated to legendary combat photographer Robert Capa and the men of the US 
1st Infantry Division (“The Big Red One”).
Battle Map N-03 : UTAH BEACH
Starting in Sector 2 gives you the Corporal Specialist and 0 Soldiers.
	
The Special Damage for MGF (Sectors 6, 13 & 14) is “-1 COURAGE.” If you 
do not have any Courage left, ignore this loss.
Sector 6: You cannot re-roll Skulls, but you can still ignore them (with a 
Sharpshooter) or change their result (with the Ammo Box or Binoculars), as 
long as you don’t re-roll them.
Sectors 10 & 12: The Shoulder Patch & Flame-Thrower can only be found 
in these Sectors (Shoulder Patch in Sector 10, Flame-Thrower in Sector 12). 
They are found for free by the first Unit to enter, and are not available 
elsewhere on the Map, so place these 2 Items aside from the Pool at the 
beginning of the game.
Sector 11: If you obtain 4 of a kind in your Final Tally, you gain 5 Soldiers. 
If you obtain 5 or 6 of a kind, you still gain the bonus. This bonus is on 
top of any RWB.
	
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Utah Beach:
Chaplain
Hero
Decoy
This Map is dedicated to Brigadier General Theodore
Roosevelt, Jr, and the men of the 4th Infantry Division
(“Ivy Division”).
Regular Items
Shoulder Patch (in Sector 10)
Flame-Thrower (in Sector 12)
Signalling Lamp 
Combat Photographer
Decoy 
Command Jacket
Mortar

Battle Map N-04 : GOLD BEACH
	
In this Map, both Bunkers need to be conquered by at least 1 Unit. 
Once a Unit enters either one of the Bunkers, it is removed from play (as 
per the “Winning” rules, leaving its Specialists to reduce the Bunker’s DEF).
Sector 8: The first player to enter this Sector automatically earns an Award. 
Only 1 Award per game can be earned this way. Historically inclined players 
may choose to take the Victoria Cross (if available).
Solitaire: When playing solo, you must enter both Bunkers (conquer one, then 
move laterally to the other one). Remember that since you cannot visit the 
same Sector twice, you must enter your 1st Bunker from Sectors 9 or 10, in 
order to exit from the top row (and move to the 2nd Bunker).
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Gold Beach:
 
Platoon Leader
This Map is dedicated to Company Sergeant Major Stanley Hollis, who singlehandedly captured 
2 bunkers on Gold Beach, and the men of the Green Howards Regiment.
Battle Map N-05 : JUNO BEACH
Sectors 4 & 9: The specified Specialists join your Unit for free when you 
move here. If you obtain the Beachmaster by Advancing to Sector 9, you do 
not gain his 3 Soldiers bonus (he must be in your Unit before you Advance).
Sector 5: The Tank can be found here, but you must pay its cost in Item 
Points. Remember that Vehicles cannot move over Landmines.
Sector 7: If the General is in play, Units would ignore this Sector’s attribute.
Sector 8: Remember that the penalty only affects the Final Tally (you don’t 
lose 3 Stars per turn, you simply lose 3 Star results from your tally).
Sector 11: If you obtain 4 of a kind in your Final Tally, you lose 3 Soldiers. 
If you obtain 5 or 6 of a kind, you still suffer the Soldiers loss.
Sector 13: The Flame-Thrower can only be found in this Sector. It is found 
for free by the first Unit to enter, and is not available elsewhere on the Map, 
so place the Flame-Thrower aside from the Pool at the beginning of the game.
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Juno Beach:
•	 	Beachmaster
•	 	Medic
•	 	Minesweeper
•	 	Platoon Leader
•	 	Scout
	
	
	
	
	
	
This Map is dedicated to Corporal Léo Major 	
	
	
	
	
	
and the men of the Régiment de la Chaudière.
•	 	Combat Photographer
•	 Lieutenant	
•	 	War Correspondent
Vehicle
Tank (in Sector 5)
Regular Items
Flame Thrower
 (in Sector 13) 
Dexedrine
Gammon Bomb
Signalling Lamp
Quartermaster
Bazooka 
Dexedrine
Gammon Bomb

Battle Map N-06 : SWORD BEACH
Sector 4: As with all “virtual” results, the bonus Skull cannot be traded with 
the Lieutenant.
Sector 5: The Lieutenant is recruited for free by the first Unit to move here. 
This Specialist cannot be recruited anywhere else on the Map.
Sectors 6, 7 & 11: 
	
 RANDOM SECTORS: The first time a Unit moves into these 	
	
 Sectors, roll 1d6 and follow the corresponding Random Attributes 
Table below (Binoculars can be used to change the result of the roll). The 
attribute obtained for each Sector stays for the duration of the game. As a 
reminder, you can leave the d6 showing its result on its corresponding Sector. 
Random Attributes
1 - Mortar Fire: Lose 1d6 Soldiers during each Phase 5
2 - Minefield: Skulls cannot be re-rolled here
3 - Foxholes: -1 Star per turn
4 - Shelter: +1 Courage per turn
5 - Half-Track: May find a Half-Track here (pay its cost in Item Points)
6 - Fields of Glory: Draw 1 Award at random (see Sector 15)
1 - Artillery Barrage: Can’t stay here
2 - Dead Troopers: -1 Courage per turn
3 - Snipers: Add 1 Skull of any color to your Final Tally
4 - Trench: +1 Star per turn
5 - Bulldozer: You can find a Bulldozer here (pay its cost in Item Points)
6 - High Ground: No dice are Locked
1 - Booby Traps: If you don’t have a Minesweeper, lose an additional 1d6 Soldiers 
per Phase 5
2 - Crossfire: No Battle Cry RWB here
3 - Ambush: For every Star in your Final Tally, lose 1 Soldier
4 - Artillery Barrage: Can’t stay here
5 - Armored Car: You find an Armored Car for free 
6 - Rallying Point: Gain 1 Soldier for every RWB you obtain
Sector 15: The first Unit to enter this Sector automatically earns a random 
Award. Only 1 Award per game can be earned this way. 
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Sword Beach:
•	 	Chaplain
•	 	Point Man
•	 Minesweeper
•	 	Scout
This Map is dedicated to capitaine de corvette Philippe Kieffer, Brigadier Simon Fraser 
(15th Lord Lovat), Piper Bill Millin and the men of No. 4 Commando.
•	 	Lieutenant
•	 Marksman
•	 Messenger

Battle Map N-07 : POINTE-DU-HOC
Sector 2: Your starting resources are 1 Soldier 3 Courage.
Sector 4: Although Items may not be found here, they can be used here if 
they were found earlier.
Sector 7: If you Climb in either Sector 9 or 10 and fail, you are allowed 
to retreat to Sector 7 to try your luck again. Remember that you cannot 
visit the same Sector twice: if you have already visited Sector 7 when 
Climbing, you cannot retreat there!	
Sectors 9 & 10:
	
CLIMBING RULES: To successfully Advance from these Sectors, you 	
	
must “Climb.” You cannot Advance otherwise, and no Battle Cry RWB 	
	
is allowed. To “Climb,” you must obtain 4 Skulls in your Final Tally. 
To help you do this, no dice are Locked when you Climb.
	
You have 3 turns to succeed. If you fail your Climb, you may retreat 
to Sector 7 (if you haven’t visited it already) and try Climbing again in 
another Sector. Skulls obtained while Climbing count as normal (they cancel 
other dice), and can give you a Dead Man’s Gift. A Vehicle can never be 
present in a Climbing Sector.
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Pointe-du-Hoc:
•	 Medic
•	 Platoon Leader
•	 Point Man
•	 	Sharpshooter
This Map is dedicated to Lt. Colonel James Earl Rudder and the men of the 2nd Ranger 
Battalion, Dog, Easy and Fox Companies.
Battle Map N-08 : MERVILLE BATTERY
Sector 2: Your starting resources are 1 Soldier +2 Stars.
Sectors 4 & 12: If the General is in play, Units would ignore these Sectors’ 
attribute.
Sectors 6 & 9: These Sectors are only accessible by using the Wirecutters Item 
(so normally, only 1 of these Sectors can be visited during a game).	
	
The Medal Case and the Dexedrine can only be found in these Sectors 
(Medal Case in Sector 6, Dexedrine in Sector 9). They are found for free 
by the first Unit to enter. These 2 Items are not available elsewhere on the 
Map, so place them aside from the Pool at the beginning of the game.
Sector 11: No Item or Specialist can reduce the DEF of this Sector. This 
includes the Bangalore Torpedo, the Gammon Bomb, the Bazooka and the Tank. 
Sector 13: Units can stay indefinitely in this Sector. Do not adjust Unit 
markers during Phase 2 when standing here. 
Bunker: The only way to enter the Bunker is with a Battle Cry RWB (either 
with the proper dice in your Final Tally or with the help of an Item like 
Dexedrine). 
Solitaire: Dexedrine is not available on this Map. You must replace the 
Dexedrine in Sector 9 with the Signalling Lamp. This means the Signalling 
Lamp cannot be found anywhere else.
Here are the available Specialists and Items for Merville Battery:
•	 Medic
•	 Minesweeper
•	 Paratrooper
•	 	Pathfinder
•	 	Sharpshooter
This Map is dedicated to Lieutenant-Colonel Terence Otway and the men of the Parachute 
Regiment, 9th Battalion, and the men of the 1st Canadian Parachute Battalion.
•	 Lieutenant
•	 Marksman
•	 War Correspondent
Command Jacket
Grappling Hook
Rope Ladder
•	 Captain
•	 	Grenadier
•	 	Lieutenant
•	 	Marksman
•	 	Quartermaster
Signalling Lamp (in Sector 9) 
(Solitaire only)
Dexedrine (in Sector 9)
Medal Case (in Sector 6)
Mortar
Wirecutters

 OPERATION DEADSTICK 
(a scenario for 2-4 players)
	
Merville’s powerful guns are targeting the Allied troops on Sword 
Beach. The battery must be silenced!
	
Place the Merville Battery & Sword Beach Maps head to head, on 
top of each other (so that the Bunkers are aligned with one another, in 
the middle). Players choose on which Map they will play (at least 1 player 
per Map), which determines their Regular Specialists. All available Items 
and Unique Specialists from both Maps are put into the same Pool. It is 
recommended to add these 2 Special Items in the Pool: Bazooka & Gammon 
Bomb.
	
In this scenario, Sword Beach is under mortar fire: all its Sectors 
are at DEF +1 until a Unit occupies Merville’s Sector 8 (to take out the 
mortar). Also, Sword’s Bunker is under protective fire: it cannot be entered 
until someone has successfully entered Merville’s Bunker (to silence its guns). 
	
The Maps’ top rows are considered “adjacent”. Movement between the 
2 Maps is therefore possible (treat as a simple Advance, using the target 
Sector’s Courage cost), but remember that Units cannot retreat: a Unit that 
moves from Merville to Sword cannot go back to Merville! The Mortar can 
be played on the top row of one Map to affect the other. The Bunkers are 
adjacent: once a Unit has entered Merville’s Bunker, it can decide to remain 
in play and enter Sword’s Bunker. Or the Unit can choose to be removed 
from play (using standard winning rules).
	
The Carrier Pigeon allows Units to trade resources between Maps (and 
the Lieutenant allows dice trading as normal). Cards or effects that affect “all 
Units” affect Units on both Maps. Remember that the Lieutenant can only be 
found on Sword Beach’s Sector 5.
	
If only 1 Unit starts on Merville, it must use the Solitaire rules of 
play for this Map. 
 D-DAY DICE TACTICS 
Select your attack path before starting the game.
Try to stay as long as you can in the lower Sectors. Higher Sectors are 
unforgiving, and a good reserve of Soldiers is fundamental against the 
Bunkers.
Focus on Soldier results. Do not get tempted by RWB bonuses like 
Leadership, Battle Cry or Special Find unless you really need them.
To maximize Item Points, concentrate all your Tools in one Final Tally. 
Choose a Sector with a “+1 Tool per turn” bonus, recruit a Scout (and 
find the Toolkit if available), and go for it.
The Bangalore Torpedo is your friend. Use it in the highest possible 
Sector.
BEACHMASTER (3): Gain 3 Soldiers every time you advance. If you sacrifice 
him after Advancing, you still get his bonus.
CHAPLAIN (4): Gain 1 Courage for every RWB you obtain.
CORPORAL (2): Re-roll 1 die in your Final Tally. Cannot re-roll a Locked die.
HERO (3): Spend Courage or Stars to save Soldiers — 1 for 1. You can lose 
any mix of Courage or Stars.
MEDIC (4): Save 1 Soldier per Phase.
MINESWEEPER (3): Ignore Landmines.
PARATROOPER (2): Counts as 6 Soldiers.
PATHFINDER (3): Gain 1 Soldier every time you move.
PLATOON LEADER (2): -1 Courage to Advance.
POINT MAN (2): Sacrifice him to stay 1 extra turn in your Sector.
SCOUT (2): Add 1 Tool to your Final Tally. This Tool has no color.
SHARPSHOOTER (2): Ignore the negative effect of 1 Skull (preventing it from 
cancelling another die). This Skull still counts for “Dead Man’s Gift” or “Ammo 
Box”.
VETERAN (3): Gain 1 Soldier for every RWB you obtain.
CAPTAIN (4): Change the color of 1 die in your Final Tally, but not its 
result. It is possible to end up with 3 dice of the same color this way.
COMBAT PHOTOGRAPHER (3): Sacrifice him after your Final Tally: 
this will also be your Final Tally next turn.
DECOY (2): Sacrifice him in place of any other Specialist.
ENGINEER (4): Subtract 5 from the DEF of any Bunker.
GENERAL (4): All Units Lock only 1 die after the first roll. 
GRENADIER (3): Sacrifice him to permanently silence MGF in your Sector, 
but not in a Bunker.
LIEUTENANT (4): After the Final Tally, any Unit may trade 1 die with 
 another Unit. No Unit may trade with more than 1 other Unit this 
way.
MARKSMAN (2): For each Skull you Lock, gain 3 Soldiers. MESSENGER 
(3): Your Specialists cost 1 less Star to recruit. This Specialist can be 
traded once per turn.
QUARTERMASTER (2): Items cost 2 less Item Points to find for every Unit.
WAR CORRESPONDENT (3): Sacrifice to switch Sectors with another 
Unit. Unit Markers do not change. (Both Units may re-enter previously 
visited Sectors).
AMBULANCE (20): Save 1 Soldier per Phase and ignore sacrifices. 
ARMORED CAR (20): Gain 1 Star per turn & Items cost 1 less to find.
BULLDOZER (20): Gain 1 Courage per turn & you can move through Barriers.
HALF-TRACK (15): Gain 1 Tool per turn & you can find more than 1 
Item per turn.
JEEP (12): Re-roll 1 die in your Final Tally. Cannot re-roll a Locked die.
TANK (20): Subtract 2 from DEF of your Sector & ignore Special Damage 
from MGF.
 REGULAR SPECIALISTS 
 UNIQUE SPECIALISTS 
 VEHICLES 

CARRIER PIGEON (3): This turn, you may trade with another Unit 
anywhere on the Map.
BANGALORE TORPEDO (20): Reduce DEF of your Sector — not a Bunker 
— to 0. MGF is not reduced this way. All Units present in the Sector 
benefit from this.
BINOCULARS (10): Change the result of any 1 die, but not its color. Can 
be used on Locked dice or any other die — like MGF.
FIELD RADIO (12): Gain 5 Soldiers.
FLAME-THROWER (20): Subtract 10 from DEF of your Bunker.
GRENADE (10): Prevent MGF in your Sector. Must be played before MGF 
is rolled.
SHOULDER PATCH (15): Lose 1 Soldier to recruit 1 Specialist for free.
MINE DETECTOR (7): Ignore landmines for 1 turn.
WALKIE-TALKIE (5): Gain 2 Soldiers.
WHISTLE (7): Advance without spending Courage. You still need to follow 
all Sector requirements and restrictions.
AMMO BOX (12): Skulls in your Final Tally take the result of your choice. 
All must take the same result.
BAZOOKA (15): Subtract 7 from DEF of your Sector — or Bunker. 
COMMAND JACKET (10): Gain a Leadership RWB.
DEXEDRINE (12): Gain a Battle Cry RWB.
DISPATCH CASE (12): Copy the Final Tally of another Unit and ignore 
yours.
FLAK VEST (7): Your Unit ignores casualties from MGF for 1 turn. 
Special Damage is also ignored.
GAMMON BOMB (7): Subtract 1d6 from DEF of your Sector — or Bunker.
GRAPPLING HOOK (5): Add 1 Skull of any color to your Final Tally.
LUCKY CHARM (3): Gain 1 Star OR Gain 1 Courage.
MEDAL CASE (15): Draw 1 Award at random.
MORTAR (7): Prevent MGF in an adjacent Sector — not a Bunker. Must 
be played before MGF is rolled.
POCKET BIBLE (7): Gain 3 Courage.
RANGEFINDER (7): Change the result of 1 BLUE die in your Final Tally.
ROPE LADDER (10): All Units add 1 Skull of any color to their Final 
Tally.
SIGNALLING LAMP (15): Gain a Fresh Troops RWB.
STRATEGIC MAP (7): Change the color of 1 die — but not its result.
TOOLKIT (7): Add 2 Tools to your Final Tally. These Tools have no 
color. 
WIRECUTTERS (10): Ignore Barriers for 1 turn. Also works for other 
Units moving with you.
 CREDITS 
Designer: Emmanuel Aquin 
Cover Art: Mark Poole
Component Art: Emmanuel Aquin 
Graphic Design: Emmanuel Aquin, Rik Falch 
Editor: Brian Mola 
Play Testers: Julie Pellan, Raoul Schaupp (StaggerLee), George Buss 
(ThatFedoraGuy), Loren Overby, Ed Browne, Brian Mola, 
Ramona McCance, David Nichols, Bobby Passmore, 
“The author wishes to thank the Centre National du Jeu and its terrific staff, 
the Canadian Game Design Contest, Thomas Provoost from Repos Production, 
and the wonderful community of the BoardGameGeek, especially Grégory 
Guazelli (softbug), Eric Herman (Grudunza), Raoul Schaupp (StaggerLee) and 
George Buss (ThatFedoraGuy). And the wonderful Julie, who died many times 
on these beaches before everyone else...”
© 2010 Valley Games, Inc.
Valley Games, the Valley Games logo, 
 the RWB system and the RWB logos
are trademarks of Valley Games, Inc.
www.valleygames.ca
 REGULAR ITEMS 
 SPECIAL ITEMS 