This rulebook
1 game board representing the Outpost’s master 	
	
 control panel
10 player screens:
7 Uninfected player screens
3 Infected player screens
79 cards
7 Character cards
1 Commander card
7 Status cards
4 Uninfected
3 Infected
42 Task cards
21 Silver-backed Task cards for 3/5/7 player 
games
21 Black-backed Task cards for 4/6 player 
games
16 Event cards
6 Final Event cards
29 dice
14 black Strong dice
14 red Weak dice
1 blue Commander die
7 Participation tokens
7 Quarantine tokens
14 Die tokens
1 Sabotage token
18 Damage tokens
6 Shield tokens
6 Fatigue tokens
6 Outpost tokens
18 cubes
13 blue Event cubes
1 blue Difficulty cube
1 red Suspicion cube
1 black Success cube
Dark Moon is a team-based game of paranoia and betrayal. 
The Uninfected team simply needs to survive until the end of 
the game, while the Infected team wants nothing more than 
to destroy them. Each player will know which team they are 
on but will not know which team the other players belong to. 
Who is your teammate and who is your enemy?
Dark Moon is different than other hidden traitor games in 
that the traitor’s destructive actions take place publicly 
for everyone to see, rather than behind a hidden veil. Good 
acting and solid deception skills are invaluable, and traitors 
with poor poker faces will quickly be revealed. Because of 
this, the game can seem unbalanced toward the Uninfected 
team at first. Inexperienced Infected players may be caught 
early, play it cautious, or reveal themselves at the wrong 
time. They may feel they can’t alter the outcome of the game 
or prevent the forward momentum of the Uninfected team. 
In reality, the Infected have an enormous amount of power if 
played correctly. 
These rules are written and balanced with experienced 
players in mind who understand the game’s rhythms and 
know how to successfully leverage the Infected team’s 
advantages. Before your first game, be sure to refer to the 
strategy guidelines found on pg. 16, which may be helpful 
for new players.
If your group feels the game is too easy or difficult for either 
side, there are variant rules included on pg. 17 that can be 
used to shift the balance in either direction.
Uninfected Victory
The Uninfected team wins if they survive until the end of the 
game. In order to survive, they must successfully complete 
three Events and the Final Event.
Infected Victory
The Infected team wins if they wipe out the Uninfected 
team before they can complete the Final Event, either by 
1) breaching the shields, thereby destroying the outpost, 
2) damaging the outpost beyond any hope of repair, or 3) 
totally compromising the life support systems so that the 
entire crew succumbs to fatigue. The Infected team wins the 
instant any one of these three conditions is met. 
component list
how to win
OVERVIEW
CHARACTER CARDS (7)
Each character has a unique special ability.
STRONG DICE (14)
Each has these facings:
PARTICIPATION TOKENS (7)
Used during Malfunctions to indicate 
whether a player is participating or not.
SHIELD TOKENS (6)
Placed when the Shield is damaged. 
Infected team wins if all 6 are placed.
FATIGUE TOKENS (6)
Placed when Life Support is damaged. Each affects 
a character. Infected team wins if all 6 are placed.
OUTPOST TOKENS (6)
Placed when the Outpost is damaged. Each blocks 
an action. Infected team wins if all 6 are placed.
QUARANTINE TOKENS (7)
Given to players who are Quarantined. 
Decreases die limit by 2. 
SABOTAGE TOKEN (1)
Placed by an Infected player to 
make repairs more difficult.
DIE TOKENS (14)
Increases or decreases a 
player’s die limit.
WEAK DICE (14)
Each has these facings:
COMMANDER DIE (1)
Given to the Commander:
UNINFECTED PLAYER SCREENS (7)
Given to all players at the start of the game. Each matches a character.
There are 2 different Task decks that are used depending on the number of players. 
Each deck has 2 kinds of Tasks: Malfunctions and Complications.
INFECTED PLAYER SCREENS (3)
Replaces the Uninfected screen for players who reveal themselves.
TASK CARDS (42)
EVENT CARDS (16)
Uninfected team must complete 3 before 
reaching the Final Event. The Commander 
chooses which occur.
FINAL EVENT CARDS (6)
Randomly chosen at the start of the game. 
The Uninfected team wins if completed.
MALFUNCTION
COMPLICATION
STATUS CARDS (8)
Determines which team each player is on.
COMMANDER CARD (1)
Given to the current Commander.

SETUP
1. Place two Shield tokens on the first 
two spots of the Shield Track and place the 
remaining four in a pile next to the board.
2. Randomly draw and place two Outpost 
tokens on the appropriate spots on the Outpost 
Status panel and place the rest in a facedown 
pile next to the board (the consequences 
displayed on the drawn Outpost tokens take 
effect immediately). 
3. Place the Fatigue tokens in a pile next to 
the board.
4. Place the Sabotage, Die, and Quarantine 
tokens next to the board.
5. Place the red Suspicion cube at the 
beginning of the VOTE track, a single blue and 
black cube above the Difficulty track, and the 
remaining blue cubes (the Event cubes) in a 
pile next to the board.
6. Shuffle the Character cards and deal one 
Character card faceup to each player.
7. Give each player the Uninfected Player 
Screen that matches their Character card. 
8. Give each player two black Strong dice and 
two red Weak dice. 
9. Give each player a Participation token.
10. Randomly draw Fatigue tokens until 
you’ve found one that matches a Character in 
play. That Character is the starting Commander 
and receives the Commander card and the blue 
Commander die (this means that any player 
who receives the DANIEL Character card will 
never start the game as the Commander). 
11. Randomly draw a Final Event card and 
place it faceup on the board on the Camera 4 
space (alternately, players can agree on which 
Final Event to use). Place the remaining Final 
Event cards back in the box; they will not be 
used this game. 
3-Player Game 
1 Infected Status card
2 Uninfected Status cards
(remove the Voluntary 
Blood Testing card)
4-Player Game 
1 Infected Status card
3 Uninfected Status cards
Black Task deck 
(remove the Voluntary 
Blood Testing card)
5-Player Game 
2 Infected Status cards
3 Uninfected Status cards
6-Player Game 
2 Infected Status cards
4 Uninfected Status cards
Black Task deck
7-Player Game 
3 Infected Status cards
4 Uninfected Status cards
12. Depending on how many players you have, 
consult the chart on the bottom of the page to 
determine how many Uninfected and Infected 
Status cards you’ll need in the game, as well as 
which deck of Task cards to use. 
Shuffle the four Infected Status cards together, 
randomly selecting the number needed for the 
game and placing them facedown. Place any 
unused Infected Status cards back in the box 
without looking at them. Form the Status deck by 
shuffling the selected Infected Status cards with 
the correct number of Uninfected Status cards. 
Deal one Status card to each player, facedown. 
Choose one player to give a loud, steady count to 
10. During the count, every player looks at their 
Status card at the same time and reads the text 
silently. Players must not put their cards down 
until the count is completed, as this gives the 
Infected team a chance to read their cards without 
revealing they’re Infected. 
13. Shuffle the appropriate Task deck (silver for 
3, 5, or 7 player games; black for 4 or 6 player 
games) and place it next to the board. 
14. Shuffle the Event deck and place it next to 
the board. 
15. The Commander draws two Event cards, 
placing one faceup on the board on the Camera 
1 spot and placing the other at the bottom of the 
Event deck (see pg. 12 for an explanation of the 
Event cards). No other player should see the Event 
card that was discarded. The player to the left of 
the Commander will be the start player. Proceed 
clockwise around the table.

REPAIR
There are three kinds of repair actions. When attempting a 
repair, the player rolls up to three of their dice and submits 
one (they may roll fewer than three dice, although this will 
reduce their chances of success greatly). If they have more 
than three dice, they may still roll no more than three. If the 
die they submit is positive, the action is successful. If the die 
they submit is negative, the action fails.
REPAIR SHIELD
If the shield has begun to fail (indicated by Shield tokens 
on the board), a repair of Shield Control may be attempted. 
If successful, remove the Shield token that is farthest on 
the Shield dial.
REPAIR LIFE SUPPORT
If life support functions have dropped to dangerous levels 
(i.e., players have become fatigued), an attempt may be 
made to restore them. If successful, any one Fatigue token 
Players complete actions, hold votes, complete Tasks, and 
finish Events during the game by rolling dice and submitting 
them. Unless otherwise stated, dice rolls are always private, 
and a player may never reveal what they rolled to another 
player. The only dice that are seen publicly are the ones that 
a player chooses to submit.
NOTE: Whenever the term “players” is used, either in this 
rulebook or on any card, it refers to either Uninfected players 
or Infected players who have not yet revealed themselves. 
Whenever the term “Infected players” is used it refers to 
players who have revealed their Status cards and are openly 
playing for the Infected team.
1. Retrieve Dice
2. Perform an Action
3. Choose a Task Card
4. Resolve the Task Card
5. Add an Event Cube (Conditional)
6. Complete the Event (Conditional)
7. Select a New Event (Conditional)
8. Advance the Suspicion Cube (Conditional)
9. Hold a Vote (Conditional)
1. RETRIEVE DICE
The active player retrieves as many dice from the available 
dice pool as needed to match their die limit (at the start of 
the game this step is skipped since everyone will have their 
maximum number of dice). For example, if a player has two 
dice at the beginning of their turn and their die limit is five, 
they must retrieve three dice from the Available Resources 
pool. They may choose any combination of Weak or Strong 
dice. Only the Commander may retrieve the Commander die. 
2. PERFORM AN ACTION
The active player may perform one of the following actions, 
assuming that the appropriate Outpost station needed to 
perform that action hasn’t been damaged.
See pg. 14 for a list of Infected player actions. 
may be removed from the board and shuffled back into 
the pile of Fatigue tokens.
Players do not have to declare which Fatigue token 
they intend to remove before making the attempt. 
REPAIR OUTPOST
If an action spot has been blocked because an Outpost 
station has been damaged, an attempt to repair the station 
may be made. If successful, any one Outpost token may 
be removed from the board and shuffled back into the 
pile of Outpost tokens. That action is now available for 
players to use. 
Players do not have to declare which Outpost token they 
intend to remove before making the attempt.
NOTE: REPAIR OUTPOST is the only action that is always 
available to players, no matter which stations have been 
damaged. 
CALL A VOTE
A player may call a vote to either 1) quarantine a player or 
2) release a player from quarantine (a player may call a vote 
on themselves). All players then hold out a closed fist and 
simultaneously reveal what they’ve concealed inside. 
A black Strong die is a vote that the player is UNINFECTED 
and should not be in quarantine.
A red Weak die is a vote that the player is INFECTED and 
should be in quarantine.
An empy hand means the player has abstained from the 
vote. 
NOTE: The Commander die may NOT be used to cast a vote.
A player may be forced to abstain if they have no active dice 
or if they do not have the color of die they want to vote with. 
They may also willingly abstain, even if they have active dice 
they could vote with.
If the majority of players vote that the player is Uninfected, 
that player is either released from quarantine or they remain 
free from quarantine. If the majority of players vote that the 
player is Infected, that player is either placed in quarantine 
or they remain in quarantine.
If there is a tie, the Commander breaks the tie however they 
wish.
After the vote, players place any dice used in the vote behind 
their player screen with their other active dice.
See pg. 13 for an explanation of the consequences of being 
quarantined.
LONE WOLF
The active player may become a “lone wolf” and go it on their 
own, attempting to add an Event cube to the current Event 
all by themselves. That player rolls up to three dice and 
submits two. If both submitted dice are positive, the action 
succeeds and an Event cube is added to the current Event or 
Final Event card. This may complete the Event, in which case 
the Commander immediately draws two new Event cards and 
chooses one before the active player’s turn continues. 
If successfully performing this action causes the Final Event 
to be completed, the Uninfected team immediately wins the 
game.
PLAYING THE GAME
TURN ORDER
There are three Shield tokens on the board, so Jon Reed 
decides to attempt to repair the shield. Since he is only 
allowed to roll up to three dice for a repair, he sets one 
of his Weak dice outside of his player shield and rolls the 
remaining three privately. 
If Jon was an Uninfected player, he would submit his +2 
strong die and the repair would be successful. However, 
Jon is actually Infected, so he submits the -1 weak die to 
the board and claims that it was “the best he could do.” 
The repair fails and no Shield tokens are removed.
REPAIR EXAMPLE
VOTING EXAMPLE
Jon Reed, the current Commander, calls a vote on Luba 
Zheleznyak. Each player holds out a closed fist. Then, all 
players reveal at the same time.
Jon has revealed a red Weak die, thereby voting that 
Luba should be placed in quarantine. Luba has obviously 
chosen a black Strong die, as she does not want to be 
placed in quarantine. Chaya’s hand is empty, so she has 
abstained from the vote.
The total is one vote for quarantine and one vote against: 
a tie. Jon, however, is the Commander, and breaks ties. 
He chooses to place Luba in quarantine. Both Jon & Luba 
return their dice behind their screens.

REVEAL AS INFECTED
If a player holds an Infected Status card, they may reveal it 
and publicly switch to the Infected team. 
See pg. 14 for an explanation of revealing as an Infected 
player.
3. CHOOSE A TASK CARD
After performing an action, the player draws two Task cards 
from the Task deck and chooses one, playing it faceup on the 
Current Task space for all players to see. The other card is 
discarded facedown to the Discard space. If there are no cards 
to draw, take all discarded cards, shuffle them, and form a 
new Task deck. 
NOTE: When forming a new Task deck, be careful not to reveal 
the Task cards in the face-down discard pile, as this could 
unfairly reveal how players have acted when choosing Tasks. 
There are two types of Tasks: Malfunctions and Complications. 
ISSUE ORDER
The active player may choose another player to issue 
an order to. This costs the active player no dice, but the 
player receiving the order is under no obligation to follow 
the instructions given them. The ordered player may either 
1) retrieve two spent dice (observing their die limit) or 2) 
perform any two actions they would normally be able to 
perform.
NOTE: If a player is issued an order and chooses to perform 
two actions, neither of those actions may be ISSUE ORDER. 
If upon receiving an order, a player’s first action is REVEAL 
AS INFECTED, they may immediately perform an Infected 
action. Therefore, give orders carefully.
NOTE: If a player is given an order, they may NOT use their 
Character ability while performing actions, as they are not 
currently the active player.
Malfunctions come in four different types and will require 
players to collectively roll their dice in an attempt to fix the 
malfunction (or, in the case of the Infected players, possibly 
cause everyone to fail). Complications feature an illustration 
and require the player or players to make a choice of some 
kind. 
4. RESOLVE TASK
MALFUNCTION TASKS
If the Task chosen is a Malfunction, place the blue Difficulty 
cube on the appropriate number on the Difficulty track, and 
place the black Success cube on 0 on 
the Difficulty track.
Beginning with the current player (the 
one who chose the Task card) and 
proceeding clockwise, each player 
and Infected player chooses whether 
they’re IN or OUT. In clockwise order, 
they flip their participation token to 
the appropriate side for everyone to 
see. 
If a player or Infected player is OUT, 
they immediately take up to two 
dice from the Available Resources 
spot as long as they don’t exceed 
their die limit. Although players 
begin with two Weak and two 
Strong dice, there is nothing to 
prevent them from having all 
Weak or all Strong dice later in 
the game (it is usually advisable, 
however, to have a mix of dice in 
order to keep your options open 
during any votes that may occur).
Each player or Infected player who is IN, starting with the 
active player and proceeding clockwise, rolls and submits 
dice. No one is allowed to roll their dice ahead of time and 
see the results until it is their turn to submit dice. All players 
and Infected players who are participating in the Malfunction 
must roll and submit at least one die.
When completing Malfunctions, players and Infected players 
may reroll their dice as many times as they choose. However, 
every time they roll their dice they must submit at least one 
of those dice, although they may submit more than one. 
This holds even if the outcome of the Malfunction appears 
inevitable; if dice were rolled, at least one must be submitted.
NOTE: The fewer dice a player has, the greater their chances of 
rolling all negative numbers. Uninfected players must carefully 
weigh the risk of continuing to roll, as they may do more harm 
than good. Hidden Infected players can take advantage of this, 
as it is less suspicious to submit negative numbers when you 
roll fewer dice.
Every time a die is submitted, move the black Success cube up 
or down on the Difficulty track the appropriate number. Each 
positive die submitted counts toward success; each negative 
die submitted counts toward failure.
Submitted dice are 
placed on the Spent 
Resources 
space 
on the board. After 
the Task has been 
resolved (but before 
consequences occur or 
Event cubes are added) 
move all dice from the 
Spent Resources pool to 
the Available Resources 
pool.
Once all players and 
Infected players who 
chose to participate have 
rolled and submitted at 
least one die each, check 
the total. If the final result 
is equal to or higher than 
the difficulty number, the 
Task is successful. If the 
result is lower than the 
difficulty number, the Task fails and the consequence listed 
on the Malfunction card occurs. 
OUTPOST MALFUNCTION
If the Malfunction happened in the outpost, the 
consequence is that one or more outpost stations become 
damaged. Randomly draw and place a number of Outpost 
tokens on the Outpost Status section of the board equal to 
the consequence number shown on the card. If the sixth 
and final Outpost token is placed, the outpost’s critical 
systems enter permanent failure, resulting in everyone’s 
death. The Infected team immediately wins. 
1. Type of Malfunction. 
2. Matching Malfunction icon. 
3. How difficult the Task will be.
4. The consequence if the Task fails.
5. Additional bonus if the Task succeeds.
6. Suspicious activity detected; move the Suspicion 
cube one space forward. 
1. Type of complication.
2. Specific instructions for overcoming the Task as 
well as the consequence if the Task fails.
3. Suspicious activity detected; move the Suspicion 
cube one space forward.
MALFUNCTION TASKS
COMPLICATION TASKS

Each Outpost token has a specific consequence when 
drawn, preventing the players from taking certain actions. 
These consequences remain in effect until that station is 
repaired. 
Shield Control - players may not use the action 
REPAIR SHIELD
Life Support – players may not use the action 
REPAIR LIFE SUPPORT
Research Lab – players may not use the action 
CALL VOTE (this does not apply to forced votes that 
occur when the Suspicion cube reaches the end of 
the Suspicion track) 
Communications – players may not use the 
action ISSUE ORDER
Hangar Bay – players may not use the action 
LONE WOLF
Command – players retrieve one fewer die when 
passing on a Malfunction Task (this does not affect 
the number of dice players retrieve at the beginning 
of their turn, nor does it affect a player who is issued 
an order and chooses to retrieve dice)
LIFE SUPPORT MALFUNCTION
If the Malfunction happened in life support, the 
consequence is that environmental conditions have 
deteriorated, resulting in one or more crew members 
becoming fatigued. Draw a number of Fatigue tokens 
equal to the consequence number on the card and place 
them on Life Support section of the board. If the Fatigue 
token drawn is the sixth and final one, the crew has 
become catatonic and the Infected team wins.
If the Character on the token is not in play, the Fatigue 
token still counts toward the Infected team’s win 
condition but does not penalize a player.
If the Character on the token is in play, they have become 
fatigued.
See pg. 13 for an explanation of becoming Fatigued.
SHIELD MALFUNCTION
If the Malfunction happened to the shield, place a number 
of Shield tokens equal to the consequence number on the 
next available spots on the Shield track. If the sixth and 
final Shield token is placed, the shield fails completely, 
exposing the outpost to the destructive conditions on the 
moon. The Infected team wins immediately.
After placing the tokens the shield must be tested. Check 
the current Failure Condition (-1, “ANY +”, -2, and 
“ANY –” respectively). Roll any die available (if there 
are no dice on the board, a player may roll one of their 
own, but it is not submitted. The color of the die does not 
matter). If the result matches the Failure Condition, the 
shield test has failed and the active player must choose to 
either 1) draw a Fatigue token or 2) draw an Outpost token. 
?????????? MALFUNCTION
These Malfunction Task cards allow the active player 
to choose which Malfunction occurs: an Outpost, Life 
Support, or Shield Malfunction. This choice must be made 
BEFORE players and Infected players choose to participate 
and roll dice.
COMPLICATION TASKS
If the Task chosen is a Complication, the player (or players) 
will be required to make a choice, at which point they will 
succeed or fail based on the instructions listed on the card. 
1. Jon Reed has chosen an Outpost Malfunction Task with a difficulty of 4 and a consequence of 3. The blue Difficulty cube is placed 
on the 4 space on the Difficulty track and the black Success cube is placed on the 0. As the active player, Jon Reed must choose 
first whether he is IN or OUT. He chooses to be IN and flips his participation token appropriately. Luba Zheleznyak also chooses 
to be IN. Michihiro Tomoko, however, has only a single active die and chooses to be OUT. He retrieves two Strong dice from the 
Available Resources space on the board.
1. There is a single Shield token on the Shield track.
2. The players fail a Malfunction Task where the consequence 
is to draw two Shield tokens. These are placed on the next 
two spots on the Shield track.
3. The active player now tests the shield and rolls any die, 
coming up with a +2. Because the Failure Condition is any 
positive number, the active player must choose to draw 
either a Fatigue token or an Outpost token to place on the 
board.
TESTING THE SHIELD
MALFUNCTION TASK EXAMPLE
2. Jon will go first. He rolls his four active dice, coming up 
with (-1)(+1)(+4)(-2). He submits the (+4) and the (+1) 
to the board and moves the Success cube forward five spaces, 
enough to ensure the Task is successful! 
3. Jon, however, doesn’t fully trust Luba, so he decides to roll 
again, hoping to push the Success cube even further down the 
track. This time he rolls (-2)(-2). Because he rolled again, 
he has to submit at least one die, even though he doesn’t 
want to. He submits the (-2) and moves the Success cube 
backwards two spaces to 3, one spot shy of success. Jon only 
has one die remaining so he chooses to stop. 
4. It is now Luba’s turn to roll (Jon was right to distrust her, 
as she actually is Infected). She rolls her three dice, coming 
up with (-1)(+3)(+2). She chooses to submit the (-1) and 
moves the Success cube backwards another space.
5. She rolls a second time, as choosing to stop at this point 
would immediately prove she was Infected. She rolls (+3)
(+4). This was not what she was hoping for, as she wanted 
the Task to fail. However, she decides to make the best of it; 
Luba makes a big show of submitting the (+4) to the board, 
thereby ensuring the Task succeeds.

7. SELECT A NEW EVENT
If an Event was successfully completed, the Commander draws 
two more Event cards, placing one faceup on the board in the 
next spot and discarding the second facedown. However, if it 
was the 3rd completed Event, players immediately proceed to 
the Final Event and the Commander does not draw any cards.
8. ADVANCE SUSPICION CUBE
If the Task card said “SUSPICOUS ACTIVITY!!!”, move the 
Suspicion cube forward on the Suspicion track. The cube is 
moved forward regardless of whether the Task succeeded or 
failed.
9. HOLD A VOTE
If the Suspicion cube has reached the final space on the 
Suspicion track, a vote MUST now be called. The active player 
must choose a player to vote on (they may choose themselves 
or a player already quarantined). After the vote, reset the 
Suspicion cube on the track. Play then proceeds clockwise to 
the next player.
NOTE: Even if the Research Lab Outpost token is on the board, 
it does not prevent this mandatory vote from occuring.
If they succeed, the Task is successful. If they fail, the 
consequence listed on the card occurs.
5. ADD AN EVENT CUBE
If the Task was successful, add an Event cube on the next 
available empty spot, either on the current Event or Final 
Event card. 
6. COMPLETE THE EVENT
If the last Event cube was added to an Event card, that Event 
is completed and the Uninfected team is one step closer 
to victory. Execute the Event Text on the card if applicable. 
If the completed Event was the Final Event, the Uninfected 
team wins the game.
NOTE: If the Event card, when completed, calls for Damage 
tokens to be added, add them until doing so would cause the 
game to end in an Infected victory. For example, if the Event 
card calls for two Fatigue tokens to be added and there are 
already four on the board, add the first but do not add the 
second as it would end the game. This does NOT apply to 
Final Events. If a Final Event card calls for adding Damage 
tokens and doing so would cause the game to end in an 
Infected victory, then the Infected team wins.
When the Final Event begins, take all remaining and discarded 
Task cards, remove all Complication Tasks, and place them 
back in the box; they will no longer be used. Shuffle and 
form a new Malfunction-only Task deck with the remaining 
cards.
NOTE: When forming a new Task deck, be careful not to 
reveal the Task cards in the facedown discard pile, as this 
could unfairly reveal how players have acted when choosing 
Tasks. 
When a player is placed in quarantine, place a Quarantine 
token in front of their player screen, covering up two of their 
die icons. Their die limit is now reduced by two dice. If that 
player has more active dice behind their screen than their 
current die limit allows, they must discard the extra dice to 
the Available Resources pool.
On a quarantined player’s turn:
They retrieve dice up to their die limit as usual.
They may only use the actions CALL VOTE, ISSUE ORDER, 
and REVEAL AS INFECTED. If CALL VOTE and ISSUE ORDER 
have been blocked by Outpost tokens and the player is 
not Infected, then they have no available actions.
They do NOT draw Task cards at the end of their turn. 
After performing an action, play passes to the next 
player.
Quarantined players may still participate in votes and Tasks 
normally.
If a player who was quarantined is released, they discard 
their Quarantine token and their die limit is increased by two 
dice (they do not automatically retrieve those dice, however).
NOTE: Players always have access to at least one die, even 
if being quarantined would reduce their die limit to zero or 
fewer dice. 
If the Commander is successfully quarantined, that player 
loses the Commander card to the player who called the vote. 
If the player who called the vote is in quarantine themselves 
(or if the Commander called the vote on themselves), then 
the Commander card passes to the first player to the left who 
is NOT in quarantine.
NOTE: In rare cases, all players who are not revealed as 
Infected may end up in quarantine. If this happens, the last 
player to be quarantined retains the Commander card. The first 
player to be released from quarantine immediately assumes 
the Commander role.
When a Fatigue token is drawn, if it matches a Character in 
play, that player must flip their Character card over. As long as 
that player is fatigued, they can’t use their Character’s special 
ability. Additionally, they may only submit a single die during a 
Malfunction (severely limiting their effectiveness). 
If the Fatigue token is removed due to a successful REPAIR 
LIFE SUPPORT action, the player flips their Character card 
back over, has access to their Character ability again, and can 
roll and submit dice normally.
FINAL EVENT
QUARANTINE
FATIGUE
1. The name of the Event (Events have blue names, 
Final Events have yellow names).
2. The number of Event cubes that must be added (by 
successfully completing Tasks) in order to complete 
the Event. 
3. The Event Text.
4. The point when the Event text goes into effect:
At Start: A one time effect, as soon as the 
Event is played.
During: A persistent effect, as long as this 
Event is the current Event.
Upon Completion: A one time effect, as 
soon as the Event is completed.
5. Reminder to form a new Task deck that only 
 contains Malfunction Task cards (only found on 
 Final Event cards).
Jon Reed has been placed in quarantine. Earlier in the 
game he received an extra Die token due to an ACT OF 
TRUST Task card, expanding his die limit from four to 
five. He now places the Quarantine token on top of his 
player screen, thereby reducing his die limit by two. 
Jon’s new die limit is three dice. If he is released from 
quarantine, his die limit will return to five.
EVENTS & FINAL EVENTS
BECOMING QUARANTINED

SABOTAGE
Place the Sabotage token on top of the Shield Control, 
Outpost Status, or Life Support label on the board. Any 
player attempting to repair that area rolls and submits 
a die normally. Afterward, whether they succeeded in 
repairing or not, they must discard two dice to the board, 
thereby removing the Sabotage token. If they do not have 
two dice, they discard as many as they can.
A player attempting to repair a sabotaged area will spend 
up to three dice: one for the repair attempt and two 
because of the Sabotage token.
An Infected player may execute this action to move the 
Sabotage token from one area of the board to another, 
but there may only ever be one area that is sabotaged at 
any given time. 
TEST COMMANDER
The Commander must roll all of their active dice and 
submit one. If positive, the Commander is successful and 
nothing happens. If negative, the Commander fails and 
the Infected player may draw a Damage token of their 
choice. If the Commander has no active dice, it is an 
automatic failure. 
DEMORALIZE
All players, beginning with the first to the Infected 
player’s left, must replace all of their active black Strong 
dice with red Weak dice until there are no more Weak 
dice in the Available Resources pool.
HONESTY
Let’s be frank: there are many opportunities to cheat in Dark 
Moon. Players can easily change the face of a die when 
submitting it, roll more dice than they should for certain 
actions, or even have more dice than their die limit allows. 
Unfortunately, due to the secretive nature of the game, there 
is really no way to verify that a player rolled what they said 
they rolled. The only solution we have for this problem is: 
don’t play with cheaters. They’re not much fun anyways.
Players who have openly declared for the Infected team:
Choose whether they are IN or OUT during Malfunction 
Tasks and submit dice as normal. Passing during a 
Malfunction Task still lets the Infected player take up to 
two dice from the Available Dice pool. 
No longer draw Task cards at the end of their turn.
Are no longer allowed to participate in votes.
Cannot be voted on, be quarantined, or become fatigued.
Are not affected by the Command Outpost token (when 
passing, they always retrieve two dice). 
No longer have access to the normal actions. Instead, 
they gain access to the following five new actions. 
INTERFERENCE
Draw three Task cards. Discard as many as you want and 
return the remaining cards to the top of the Task deck in 
any order you choose. 
ENERGY SPIKE
If there are 0-1 Shield tokens on the board, add one Shield 
token and, if applicable, test the shields. 
If there are two or more Shield tokens on the board, roll 
any die to test the shields. Check the result against the 
current Failure Condition. If it matches, draw either a 
Fatigue or Outpost token and place it on the board. 
When a player reveals as Infected, a number of things 
happen:
If not quarantined, they execute the Infection Power on 
their Status card immediately. 
They roll any available die; if the result is a positive 
number, they may execute their Infection Power a 
second time.
They discard their Character card, their Quarantine 
token (if they were quarantined), any Die tokens, and 
their Uninfected player screen. If the Infected player who 
revealed was the Commander, the Commander card now 
passes to the first player to the left and the Commander 
die is placed in the Available Resources pool.
They take an Infected player screen as a replacement. 
Observing their new die limit, they discard down to two 
dice, returning any extra dice to the Available Resources 
pool.
Their turn is immediately over (unless they revealed as 
a result of the ISSUE ORDER action and revealing was 
their first action. In this case, they may immediately 
perform an Infected action).
ROLLING & SUBMITTING DICE
Unless otherwise stated, these rules apply to all dice rolls. 
Dice rolls are always private, and a player may never 
reveal what they rolled to another player. The only dice 
that are seen publicly are the ones that a player chooses 
to submit. This applies to Infected players as well.
The number of active dice a player has behind their 
screen as well as what kinds of dice (either Strong or 
Weak) is also private. Players may share this information 
with others, but they may also lie about what they have.
If a player chooses to roll their dice, they must roll all the 
active dice available to them (unless the action calls for 
a specific number of dice, i.e. “Roll up to three dice and 
submit one”). This applies to Infected players as well.
After an action or Task has been resolved, any dice that 
were submitted are moved from the Spent Resources 
pool to the Available Resources pool. 
TESTING THE SHIELD
Any time Shield tokens are drawn, the active player always 
rolls a die to test the shield. This could happen if a Task is 
failed; if an Event is completed and the Event text on the card 
says to draw Shield tokens; if an Infected player reveals and 
their Infection Power is to draw a Shield token; or if a revealed 
Infected player succeeds at the ENERGY SPIKE action. In each 
instance, place all Shield tokens on the board in the next 
ADDITIONAL 
RULES OF 
NOTE
1. Outpost Control has been sabotaged by an Infected player. The players really need to be able to repair life 
support, however, so Michihiro chooses REPAIR OUTPOST as his action, even though Outpost Control is sabotaged.
2. Since it is a REPAIR action, he may only roll three of his active dice. He sets one die outside of his player screen 
and rolls his remaining dice, coming up with (+1)(-1)(-2). He submits the (+1), thereby successfully repairing 
the outpost. He removes the Life Support token, ensuring that life support may be repaired on future turns.
3. Even though the repair was successful, Outpost Status was still sabotaged. Michihiro must now discard two of 
his active dice to the board. After doing so, he removes the Sabotage token. Future outpost repair attempts will 
not be penalized (unless an Infected player places the Sabotage token there again).
SABOTAGE EXAMPLE
REVEALING 
AS INFECTED

end of the game, but it will make it more difficult for the 
Uninfected team. 
NO MORE COMPLICATIONS
If all Infected players have revealed themselves, gather 
all of the Task cards together and remove all of the 
Complication Tasks. Shuffle and form a new Task deck that 
only contains Malfunction Task cards. 
EASIER FOR THE
UNINFECTED TEAM
NERFED REVEAL - EXTREME
When an Infected player reveals, they are not allowed to 
trigger their Infection Power at all.
NERFED REVEAL - NORMAL
When an Infected player reveals, they may trigger their 
Infection Power as normal, but they are NOT allowed to 
roll a die to see if they may trigger their Infection Power a 
second time.
SAFE ORDERS
If a player is issued an order, they may not choose REVEAL 
AS INFECTED as one of their actions.
FATIGUED INFECTED
Revealed Infected players may only submit a single die 
during Malfunction Tasks.
COSTLY ACTIONS
When performing any of the five Infection actions, the 
Infected player must first submit any die to the Available 
Resources pool. This is the ‘cost’ of performing an action.
FINAL EVENT CARDS
LAST STAND
At the start, each player (Uninfected and Infected who have 
not yet revealed) places a -1 Die token (the side with the 
slash through it) on their player shield, reducing their die 
limit by one. This does not affect revealed Infected players.
If your group feels the game is unfairly balanced toward one 
side or the other, please add these rules to taste. You may 
combine them in any way you want, although the rules are 
listed from most effective to least effective. 
EASIER FOR THE 
INFECTED TEAM
 
EXPENSIVE VOTING
All dice used in voting are submitted to the Available 
Resources pool after the vote. This makes voting much 
more expensive and managing the dice pool much more 
difficult for the Uninfected team.
FIRST IS LAST
During Malfunction Tasks, the player to the left of the 
active player is the first to choose whether they are IN 
or OUT, as well as the first to roll and submit dice. The 
active player (the one who chose the Task card) rolls and 
submits last. This gives Infected players an incredible 
advantage, as they can not only choose a dangerous 
Task, but then easily tank it as they will be rolling and 
submitting last.
FLIMSY QUARANTINE
Quarantined players may draw and choose Task cards 
as normal at the end of their turn. Therefore, even if 
quarantined, an Infected player can still greatly influence 
the game by sitting in quarantine, drawing Task cards, 
and hopefully playing nasty ones.
TELEPATHIC INFECTED (5-7 PLAYERS 
ONLY)
After the Status cards have been passed out, but before 
the Commander has chosen the first Event card, have all 
players close their eyes for 10 seconds. Designate one 
player to perform a slow count to 10. During this time, 
all Infected players may open their eyes and look at one 
another, identifying who their teammates are.
DEADLY EVENTS
When a completed Event card calls for tokens to be 
drawn, those tokens CAN end the game. This may create 
some un-thematic situations, where players are actively 
trying to fail Tasks because succeeding would mean the 
available spots on the Shield track before rolling the die. If 
the roll matches the current Failure Condition on the Shield 
track, the active player chooses whether to draw an Outpost 
token or a Fatigue token. 
DIE LIMITS
If, for whatever reason, a player’s die limit is reduced and 
they have more active dice behind their screen than their 
new die limit allows, they must immediately discard any 
excess dice to the Available Resources pool (their choice). If 
the Commander role changes to another player, the previous 
Commander immediately places the Commander die on the 
Available Resources pool.
When a player’s die limit is increased, however, they do 
NOT immediately retrieve their new dice (including the 
Commander die if a player has just received the Commander 
card). A player may only retrieve dice at the beginning of 
their turn, when passing during a Malfunction Task, when 
issued an order by another player, or when a completed 
Event card allows them to.
A player is always considered to have a die limit of at least 
1. In the rare occurence that a player’s die limit is reduced 
to 0 or less, that player may still retrieve and hold at least 
one die behind their screen. 
CHANGING COMMANDERS
If the Commander is ever quarantined, the Commander card 
passes to the player who initiated the vote. However, if the 
player who initiated the vote is in quarantine themselves 
(or if the Commander initiated the vote), the role passes to 
the first Uninfected player to the Commander’s left. If the 
Commander reveals as Infected, the role passes to the first 
Uninfected player to the Commander’s left. 
IF ALL INFECTED PLAYERS 
REVEAL
If at any point in the game all Infected players have revealed 
themselves, remove the Suspicion cube from the game and 
ignore “SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY!!!” on Task cards. Some Event 
cards and Complication Task cards will feel strange, anti-
climactic, or heavily weighted in the Uninfected team’s favor 
if all Infected have revealed. This usually hurts the Infected 
team and is a consequence for being discovered too early or 
revealing too soon.
UNINFECTED PLAYERS
Find the Infected players as fast as possible and quarantine 
them. A quarantined Infected (or even a revealed Infected) 
is much less of a threat than a hidden one. If you’re going 
into the Final Event and you haven’t neutralized the Infected 
players yet, you’re in trouble.
Dice management is an integral part of the Uninfected team’s 
success. When the dice pool is whittled down, Tasks will end 
in failure more frequently and things will begin to spiral out of 
control much faster. Rely on character abilities that allow you 
to repair without submitting dice, and lean on the ISSUE ORDER 
action to replenish your teammates’ dice. Know when to fail 
a Malfunction Task on purpose in order to conserve your dice. 
INFECTED PLAYERS
For a number of reasons, remaining hidden as long as possible 
is almost always the best play, even if the game seems to 
be going in the Uninfected team’s favor. Don’t reveal yourself 
unless you can end the game using your Infection Power. A 
hidden Infected player creates doubt, paranoia, and distrust 
amongst the Uninfected team, which will result in them wasting 
precious actions. If all the Infected players are revealed, the 
Uninfected team will become much more efficient, as they no 
longer have to expend energy doubting one another; they can 
focus solely on successfully completing Tasks and winning the 
game. 
One of the most powerful weapons in the Infected player’s 
arsenal is the ability to choose a Task card at the end of their 
turn. If the right card comes up, an Infected player can handily 
deal the deathblow. A revealed Infected, however, no longer 
chooses Task cards in this manner. If you can, wait for the 
right moment to publicly fail a Task. Pay special attention to 
the Tasks chosen by the player to your left, as you will be 
the last one to contribute dice (and therefore have the most 
control over the outcome). Performing a “soft” reveal like 
this, especially when victory is close, can put the Uninfected 
team on the ropes. They must now expend precious actions to 
quarantine you, actions they might not be able to waste.
CARD NOTES
STRATEGY NOTES
VARIANT RULES

PROTECT SELF-DESTRUCT CODES
If the Final Event is successfully completed, the Uninfected 
team does not automatically win. The Commander must 
reveal their Status card; if they were secretly Infected, 
the Infected team wins. Likewise, the Infected team wins 
if the Commander is Fatigued when the Final Event is 
completed.
NOTE: This Final Event can provide some incredibly tense 
moments as players jockey for control of the Commander 
card. However, if all Infected are revealed before the 
Final Event occurs, this card will result in a very anti-
climactic game.
EVENT CARDS
BLOOD TESTING
No vote is held. The Commander simply chooses to 
release someone from quarantine or to place someone in 
quarantine. If all Infected players have reveaeled and no 
one is currently in quarantine, the Commander must still 
place a player in quarantine. 
FOOD RATIONING
In a five player game, for example, if there are five or 
fewer Strong dice on the Available Resources spot, they 
cannot be retrieved by the players. This may mean that 
some players will not be able to retrieve dice at all at the 
beginning of their turn or when passing. This does NOT 
affect revealed Infected players. They may retrieve Strong 
dice as usual. 
REPAIR TOOLS
If a player attempts a REPAIR action, they may only roll red 
Weak dice. If a player does not have any active Weak dice, 
trying to perform a repair is pointless. 
RESTORE COMM
Revealed Infected players do not get to retrieve dice when 
this Event is completed.
If the Outpost token for Command is on the board when 
this Event is completed, it does NOT affect the number 
of dice players are allowed to retrieve. They may still 
retrieve dice up to their full die limit.
RESUPPLY
Per the wording on the card, the Commander MAY remove 
all of one kind of Damage token from the board. The 
Commander is not obligated to remove any Damage 
tokens, however.
SALVAGE PARTS
Upon completion, note the number of Outpost and Fatigue 
tokens on the board. Then, shuffle all Outpost and Fatigue 
tokens together facedown and draw new ones (making 
sure you have the same number that you began with). 
New actions may be blocked, players who were Fatigued 
may no longer be so, and players who were not previously 
Fatigued may find themselves suddenly Fatigued.
SYSTEM CRASH
Place all possible Damage tokens on the board BEFORE 
testing the shields (if any of the three Damage tokens 
would end the game, do NOT place them). If, when testing 
the shield, the Failure Condition is met, requiring either a 
Fatigue or Outpost token to be drawn, the game can end 
because of this additional Damage token.
SYSTEM REBOOT
The Commander cannot cause the game to end (this may 
mean that fewer than five Damage tokens are drawn).
ACCEPTABLE LOSS
If this card is played, drawing a Damage token is not 
optional. Therefore, this card will always result in a 
successful Task.
ACT OF TRUST
If the chosen player agrees, they place a -1 Die token 
(the side with the slash through it) on their player shield, 
reducing their die limit by one. The player who played the 
card places a +1 Die token (the side with the + on it) next 
to their player shield, increasing their die limit by one. 
FAILURE TO LEAD
The active player may choose themselves to receive the 
Commander card. 
The Commander may play this card themselves and 
choose another player to give the Commander card to. 
MANDATORY QUARANTINE
The active player may choose themselves to be voted on.
STRATEGIC COMPROMISE
If this card is played, drawing Damage tokens is not 
optional. Therefore, this card will always result in a 
successful Task. 
The two Damage tokens that are drawn may be different 
kinds. 
CHARACTER CARDS
JON REED
Whenever retrieving dice, Jon must observe his die limit. 
Normally, Jon will retrieve up to three dice when passing. 
If the Command Outpost token is on the board, he will 
retrieve two dice, one fewer than he normally retrieves. 
Jon does not retrieve an extra die under any other 
circumstance (for example, from an ISSUE ORDER action 
that has been given to him). 
Jon is one of the only characters who’s ability is always in 
effect, not just when he is the active player.
LUBA ZHELEZNYAK
When she is the active player, Luba may reroll all of her 
dice once, rather than submit one. This could be when 
attempting a REPAIR action or during a Malfunction Task. 
For example, during a Malfunction 
Task Luba rolls a -2, -2, and 
-1. Normally, she would need to 
submit at least one of those dice. 
Instead, she chooses to use her 
once-per-turn special ability and 
reroll all of her dice rather than 
submit a negative die to the board. 
Since she can only use her ability 
once, she will have to submit at 
least one die regardless of what 
comes up on her reroll. 
Luba canoot choose to simply 
stop rolling. If she doesn’t like a 
given roll she has the option to 
reroll, but once she’s rolled her 
dice she will ultimately need to 
submit at least one.
Steve has just played an Act of Trust card, and he has 
chosen Enver (who is currently in quarantine) to give him a 
die. If Enver refuses, an Outpost token will be drawn and the 
Task will fail. Enver decides to give Steve one of his dice. He 
places a -1 Die token on his player shield, permanently reducing 
his die limit by one (because he’s quarantined, his current die 
limit is only one). Steve takes a +1 Die token and places it next 
to his player shield, permanently increasing his die limit by one. 
The Task then succeeds.
ACT OF TRUST EXAMPLE

CREDITS
Game Design: Evan Derrick
Original Art: William Bricker
Graphic Design: Evan Derrick
Copy Editing: David Bohlander
Project Management: Stephen Buonocore
Playtesting Support:
John Akin, Eric Alexopoulos, Josh Anderson, 
Ernie Barrett, John Beggs, Julius Besser, 
Yitzchak Besser, David Bohlander, Dino Boni, 
Lloyd Clay Bowen, Jeff Briggs, E. R. Burgess, 
John Calo, Alex Carlson, Marco Chiappa, Jacob 
Coon, Jae Cordes, Ted Cox, Daniel San Miguel 
Cuadrado, George Cummings, Jacob Davenport, 
Collin Derrick, Jillian Derrick, Kristena Derrick, 
Ruth Derrick, Eileen Duffy, Joshua Eastman, 
Brandon Farrow, Spencer Forsell, Brad Fuller, 
Geof Gambill, Jessica Geis, Stephen Glenn, Jim 
Goff, Bill Grant, Michael R. Greenhoe, Matthew 
Haase, Shawn Hanson, Phil Heimel, Paul M. 
Incao, Jesse Johnson, Jim Jones, Elhannan Lloyd 
Keller, Niko Kretchmar, Will Lentlie, Simon Li, 
James Liang, Daniel Loke, Brian Ludwick, Phil 
Majewski, Derek McCabe, Edward C. McKell, 
Brad Metz, David Murray, Dave Nicklaw, Markus 
Olfson, Gustavo Pereira, Jon Reed, Michael 
Reitz, Paulo Renato, Rob Rodger, Christopher 
Roos, Chris Schumann, Michael Krzysztof 
Szczerbak, Douwe Terluin, Dexter Thompson, 
Steven Townsend, Chris Tweedy, United Geeks 
of Gaming, Chris Weeks, Jason Wenderoth
© 2015 by Stronghold Games, All Rights Reserved
Please visit our website at
www.StrongholdGames.com
If you have any questions, please email us at
info@StrongholdGames.com
Follow us on Twitter!	
@StrongholdGames
@EvanDerrick