Contents
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Game Contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Initial Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Setup After the Mini Boss . . . . . . . . . 9
Tiles and Nodes . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Te Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Node Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Node Model Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Characters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Character Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Estus Flask Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Luck Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Equipment Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Upgrade Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Equipment Modiﬁers . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Embers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Te Bonﬁre Tile . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Home Base . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Blacksmith Andre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Te Firekeeper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Resting at the Bonﬁre . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Exploration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Into the Dungeon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Te Fog Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Encounter Setup . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Encounter Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Terrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Trap Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Encounter Setup Example . . . . . . . . 18
Encounters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Te Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Activating Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Ending an Encounter . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Combat Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Target versus Hit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Te Endurance Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Enemy Data Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Pushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Character Activations . . . . . . . 22
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Character Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Character Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Enemy Activations . . . . . . . . . 24
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Enemy Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Enemy Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Boss Encounters . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Boss Basics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Boss Data Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Behaviour Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Boss Arcs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Starting a Boss Encounter . . . . . . . . 28
Ending a Boss Encounter . . . . . . . . 28
Boss Activations . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Boss Activation Example . . . . . . . . . 30
Post-Game Ritual . . . . . . . . . . 31
Campaign Rules . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Rules of the Campaign . . . . . . 33
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Adding and Dropping Players . . . . . 33
Dashing Trough . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Sparks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Progressing through 
the Campaign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Te Bonﬁre Tile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Campaign Scenarios 
Using the Core Set . . . . . . . . . 34
Te First Journey . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Te Coiled Sword . . . . . . . . . . 36
Campaign Tracking Sheet . . . . 39
Dark Souls™ series by: BANDAI NAMCO Entertainment Inc.
Game Concept: Mat Hart and Rich Loxam
Game Design: David Carl, Alex Hall, Mat Hart, Bryce 
Johnston, Rich Loxam, and Jamie Perkins
Development Leads: David Carl and Alex Hall
Graphic Design & Layout: Tom Hutchings
Texture Design: Alex Cairns
Lead Writer: Sherwin Matthews
Editing: Darla Kennerud
Sculpting: Russ Charles
Dark Souls™, Dark Souls™ II, Dark Souls™ III & ©BANDAI NAMCO Entertainment Inc. / ©FromSoftware, Inc.
Steamforged Games: Charles Agel, Christine Agel, 
Philip Andrews, Edward Ball, Gerry Brawley, 
Eleanor Bridge, Corey Davies, Matt Elliot, 
Jay Finnegan, Kelsey Fox, Jamie Giblin, James Hasker, 
Rich Jennings, Ronan Kelly, Mike McGougan, 
Blake Noden, Byron Orde, Greg Plail, Rob Taylor, 
Jak Traves, Adam Tudor, Marc Williams
Special Tanks: 
All of our Kickstarter Backers and Late Pledgers
Playtesting: Steve Atkinson, Bill Boysen, 
James Brannan, Adam Brown, Adam Camp, 
Jessica Carl, Henry Clark, James Clark, Dan Doré, 
Vaughn Ferguson, Charles Foster III, Justin Foster, David 
Gardner, Jason Garvin, Alexander Horn, 
Ben Josling, Fabian Kerschl, Daniel Knauss, 
Jen LeGrand, Ann-Marie Manwaring, 
Phil Manwaring, Brian Palmer, James Philip, 
Paul Porter, Chris Rutter, Owen Rutter, 
Werner Schosser, Andrew Sykes, Chris Wills

Introduction
In the beginning, the world was without form, only a colourless place shrouded by fog and 
bereft of light. What little of this world existed was ruled by the Everlasting Dragons, masters 
of desolate grey crags and the ancient archtrees. Tis was the Age of the Ancients, an era that 
would last for time untold, until the advent of the First Flame.
Taking their strength from the Lord Souls found within the Flame, three of the Lords, godlike 
beings born of the Dark and possessing immeasurable power, did smite the Everlasting Dragons 
from the skies and destroy their kind. Tus began the Age of Fire, when humanity began to 
spread throughout the land and both cities and kingdoms were formed and ruled by the Lords. 
Yet for all their power, the Lords could continue their dominion only for as long as the First 
Flame burned, and soon it began to wane. Fearing the end of their reign and the growing 
strength of humanity, the Lords searched desperately for ways to restore the sacred ﬁre.
Eventually, the Witch amongst their number was consumed trying to recreate the First Flame 
and instead gave birth to the Flame of Chaos, beginning a great war with the demons that 
issued from the corrupted ﬁres. As the silver knights of Gwyn, Lord of Sunlight, were charred 
black and fell during the conﬂict, he ﬁnally divined that the only way was to sacriﬁce himself 
to the First Flame and unnaturally prolong the Age of Fire. He became the ﬁrst Lord of 
Cinder and in doing so unleashed the curse of undeath upon humanity, denying them their 
true ascendance as long as the Age of Fire continued.
But even this was to prove only transient, the First Flame waning once again. Since that 
time, countless other Lords of Cinder have linked the First Flame and prevented the coming 
of darkness. Each instance has further cursed the world to continue in a torment where the 
hollowed dead wander amongst the living and ancient creatures exact their wrath upon any 
foolish enough to stray into their domain. It is in this miserable state that the world has now 
existed for a thousand years and more, always on the brink of the Age of Dark—despite the 
best eﬀorts of the agents of the fourth Lord, the Furtive Pygmy.
You are the Chosen Undead, Bearers of the Curse. It is now upon you that the fate of this 
world rests. You must journey across the realms, defeat the many enemies that will confront 
you, and ultimately choose not only your destiny, but also that of this world. You may be 
remembered either as Lords of Cinder yourselves, forever joining the Soul of Cinder, or as 
Ashen Ones, ushering in an Age of Humanity where the curse of undeath is at last lifted— 
but chaos will ultimately consume all.
Dark Souls™: Te Board Game is a cooperative dungeon crawl board game for 1–4 
players. To win the game, players must work together tactically to learn how to defeat 
the enemies before ﬁnally confronting the boss. Players will ﬁnd speciﬁc attack patterns 
and weaknesses of the enemies, but they will have to be careful. If a player’s character 
dies, the game does not end, but starting over comes at a cost. Each time a character 
falls in combat, the whole party must return to the bonﬁre, and all enemies reset. 
Use your resources sparingly, learn quickly, and prepare to die.

Game Contents
Characters
Assassin
Herald
Knight
Warrior
Each character has a miniature, player board, three or four 
starting equipment cards, and ten class-speciﬁc treasure cards 
(See ‘Treasure Deck’, p. 9).
Enemies
2x Sentinel
3x Silver Knight Swordsman
3x Silver Knight Greatbowman
2x Large Hollow Soldier
3x Hollow Soldier 
3x Crossbow Hollow
Each enemy has a miniature and a data card.
Assassin
Knight
Sentinel
Silver Knight Swordsman
Silver Knight Greatbowman
Large Hollow Soldier
Hollow Soldier
Crossbow Hollow
Herald
Warrior

Main Bosses & Mini Bosses
Each main boss and mini boss has a 
miniature, a Health dial, a boss data card, 
a deck of behaviour cards, and between 
two and four treasure cards. 
Boreal Outrider Knight
Dancer of the Boreal Valley
Dragon Slayer Ornstein & Executioner Smough
Main Bosses
Dancer of the Boreal Valley
Dragon Slayer Ornstein & 
Executioner Smough
Mini Bosses
Boreal Outrider Knight

Treasure Deck
13x Starting Equipment Cards
40x Class-Speciﬁc Treasure Cards
60x Common Treasure Cards
10x Legendary Treasure Cards
18x Boss Treasure Cards
Encounter Deck
Assassin starting 
Herald starting 
Knight starting 
Warrior starting 
Assassin class 
Herald class 
Legendary 
Knight class 
Dancer of the 
Boreal Valley 
Warrior class 
Ornstein & 
Smough treasure
Assassin transposed 
Herald transposed 
Knight transposed 
Warrior transposed 
Common 
Boreal Outrider 
Knight treasure
12x Encounter Level 1 Cards
12x Encounter Level 2 Cards
12x Encounter Level 3 Cards

Dice
Gameplay Tokens
Terrain & 
Board Elements
Character Board Tokens
Cubes
Condition Tokens
Board Tiles
5x Black Dice
4x Blue Dice
2x Orange Dice
4x Green Dodge Dice
1x Aggro Token
1x First Activation Token
6x 1 Wound Tokens
3x 3 Wound Tokens
1x 5 Wound Tokens
1x Fog Gate Token
4x Treasure Chest Tokens
5x Gravestone Tokens
8x Barrel Tokens
20x Trap Tokens
4x Luck Tokens
4x Heroic Action Tokens
4x Estus Flask Tokens
4x Ember Tokens
32x Damage Tokens (red cubes)
32x Stamina Tokens (black cubes)
16x Level Up Tokens (white cubes)
5x Bleed Condition Tokens
5x Poison Condition Tokens
5x Frostbite Condition Tokens
5x Stagger Condition Tokens
10x 1 Soul Tokens
5x 3 Souls Tokens
3x 5 Souls Tokens
1x 8 Souls Token
1x Spark Dial
1x Bonﬁre Tile
6x Exploration Tiles
1x Main Boss Tile
1x Mini Boss Tile

Setup
Initial Setup
Dark Souls™: Te Board Game is a game of exploration and 
advancement that culminates in epic boss battles. Players set 
up the game for initial exploration leading up to an encounter 
with a mini boss. Tey then need to reset certain elements of the 
game at the midpoint. After additional exploration, they face the 
ﬁnal encounter with a main boss.
1. Tile Setup
Place the Bonﬁre tile on the table and set the Mini Boss tile 
and Main Boss tile oﬀ to the side. Shuﬄe the remaining six 
tiles and lay out four of the tiles around the Bonﬁre tile in any 
way you wish, aligning their doorways as you go. Take the Fog 
Gate token and place it on an empty portion of a wall on the tile 
farthest from the Bonﬁre tile (or a tile tied for farthest from the 
Bonﬁre tile). Place the remaining two tiles back in the box.
1 Player
5 Sparks
2 Players
4 Sparks
3 Players
3 Sparks
4 Players
2 Sparks
2. Bonfire Sparks
Te bonﬁre has a limited number of sparks based 
on the number of players. Place the spark dial on 
the Bonﬁre tile with the dial displaying the correct number from 
the table below. When the players are defeated in an encounter 
(p. 19) or choose to rest at the bonﬁre (p. 15), turn the dial 
down one number. Once the dial reads 0, the characters can no 
longer rest there, and the next time a character is killed, the game 
is lost.
3. Boss Selection 
Choose the mini boss the players would like to ﬁght. Ten ﬁnd 
that boss’s model, Health dial, boss data card, behaviour cards, 
and boss treasure cards and set them aside. Tese game elements 
will be used when the players reach the mini boss encounter.
Fog Gate

©BNEI / ©FS, Inc.
Battle Axe
[0]
[2]
4. Encounter Cards
Te enemies the characters encounter on each tile are based on 
the encounter cards. Separate the encounter cards by diﬃculty 
level and shuﬄe each pile. Look at the boss data card to see the 
diﬃculty level of each encounter leading up to that boss. Take 
random encounter cards of the diﬃculty levels matching those 
found on the boss data card. Place one encounter card face down 
on each tile. Place the lower-level encounter cards near the 
Bonﬁre tile and the higher-level encounter cards farther from 
the Bonﬁre tile.
Setup After the Mini Boss
After the characters defeat the mini boss, perform setup 
steps 1 and 2 again as detailed above. In step 3, select 
a main boss instead of a mini boss, and ﬁnd the game 
elements for this new boss ﬁght. Perform step 4 for the 
main boss’s encounters, and skip over step 5 since the 
characters are well on their way!
Instead of setting up the treasure deck in step 6, you will add 
treasure to the deck. Find the ﬁve transposed treasure cards for 
each character. Ten ﬁnd the legendary weapon cards, shuﬄe 
those, and randomly select ﬁve of them. Add the transposed 
treasure cards (ﬁve per player) and the ﬁve selected legendary 
weapon cards to the treasure deck and shuﬄe it. From now on, 
the characters have a chance to gain these more advanced items 
when they draw a card from the treasure deck.
6. Treasure Deck
Find the common treasure cards and each 
chosen character’s ﬁve class treasure cards. 
Shuﬄe them together to form the treasure 
deck, and place it face down on the 
Treasure Deck section of the Bonﬁre tile.
7. Tokens
Separate all remaining tokens by token type, and place them 
within easy reach of all players.
5. Characters
Each player should select one character and take the model, 
character board, and starting equipment cards associated with 
that character. Place the armour card on the character board’s 
armour slot and the other cards in the hand slots and/or backup 
slot. Place one Estus Flask token, one Heroic Action token, and 
one Luck token on each character board. Place each selected 
character model on the Bonﬁre tile. Collectively, the characters 
are known as the party.
Place one Level Up token in each square hole for the Base level 
of Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, and Faith (four cubes per 
character).
Encounter Level 1
Encounter Level 2
Encounter Level 3
For example, in a two player game using the Assassin and 
Knight, you would ﬁnd all the cards with the icons shown above 
to create your Treasure Deck.

Tiles and Nodes
The Basics
Te action in Dark Souls™: Te Board Game takes place on the 
game’s tiles. All tiles have one or more doorways. Doorways 
allow characters to travel between tiles.
Every tile except for the Bonﬁre tile has a number of circular 
symbols on it. Tese symbols, called nodes, are used for setup 
and movement during encounters (p. 19) and take the place of 
game board spaces used in other board games. Each node is one 
of three types: basic, spawn, or terrain.
Node Movement
While in an encounter, each model must be on one of these 
nodes. When a model moves, move it from its current node 
to an adjacent node. An adjacent node is any node located 
directly next to the model’s current node – horizontally, 
vertically, or diagonally.
Range
Attacks and eﬀects have a maximum range that is counted from one 
model to another model, whether friendly or enemy. Range 0 
means the models must be on the same node. Range 1 
1 means 
the models must be on adjacent nodes (or closer). Range 2 
means the models can be up to two nodes apart, and so on. 
Range ∞ (inﬁnity) ∞ indicates unlimited range and can aﬀect 
any model in the encounter.
Node Model Limits
Multiple models can share the same node, even if it’s tough to 
ﬁt them on the node. So long as the players understand which 
models are on which nodes, they can overlap or spread out the 
models a bit as needed. Nodes do have a model limit, however. 
Only three models can share a node at the same time, regardless 
of how many are friendly or enemy models. If there are already 
three models on a node and another model moves onto that 
node, the players must push one of the three models already on 
the node (p. 21).
Te exception to this rule is that nodes also have a boss limit. 
Only one boss model can ever be on a node. If a boss model 
moves onto a node that already contains a boss, the players must 
push the boss that was on the node ﬁrst.
Spawn nodes are where enemy 
models are placed at the start of an 
encounter.
Basic nodes are the most common type of 
node. All basic nodes that are adjacent to 
doorways are entry nodes as well as being 
basic nodes. Entry nodes are where characters 
are placed when they enter the tile.
Te mini boss spawn node is where the mini 
boss is placed at the start of the mini boss 
encounter (mini boss tile only).
Te main boss spawn node is where the main 
boss is placed at the start of the main boss 
encounter (main boss tile only).
Terrain nodes are where terrain 
features are placed at the start of an 
encounter.
All green highlighted nodes are adjacent to the Herald character.

Characters
Estus Flask Tokens
Each character has one Estus Flask, represented 
by an Estus Flask token. One side of the token 
shows a full Estus Flask, and the other shows an 
empty Estus Flask. At the start of the game, the 
Estus Flask is full. During a character’s activation, 
they may use the Estus Flask to remove all black 
and red cubes from their endurance bar (p. 20). 
Once used, the Estus Flask token is ﬂipped to 
empty and cannot be used again until the Estus 
Flask is reﬁlled. All Estus Flasks are reﬁlled when 
the party rests at the bonﬁre.
Luck Tokens
Each character has one Luck token. At the 
start of the game, the Luck token is ready. Any 
character may ﬂip their Luck token to the used 
side to reroll one die in their attack, block, or 
dodge roll. While it is on the used side, the Luck 
token cannot be used again. All Luck tokens are 
ﬂipped to the ready side when the party rests at 
the bonﬁre.
Te character board for each character includes all the 
information speciﬁc to that character’s class:
2. Illustration
3. Heroic Action
4. Equipment Slots
5. Endurance Bar
6. Stat Progression
7. Taunt Level
8. Heroic Action Token Slot
9. Luck Token Slot
10. Estus Flask Token Slot
11. Ember Token Slot
Each class’s Heroic Action is a special limited-
use ability that can be used during encounters. 
When it is used, ﬂip the character’s Heroic 
Action token from the ready side to the used side. 
It cannot be used again until it is ﬂipped back 
to the ready side. At the start of the game and 
each time the characters rest at the bonﬁre, 
ﬂip all characters’ Heroic Action tokens to the 
ready side.
Te equipment slots hold the character’s weapons and armour 
(p. 12).
Te endurance bar is used during encounters to determine how 
much Stamina the character can use and when that character 
dies in battle (see ‘Encounters’, p. 19).
Te stat progression area lists the Base stats for the character 
as well as the upgrade tiers for those stats. Each character has 
four stats they can upgrade: Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, 
and Faith. A character’s stats determine the weapons and 
armour that character can use, based on the item’s minimum 
stat requirements. Over the course of the game, characters can 
increase their stats, allowing them to equip the more powerful 
items they discover (see ‘Te Firekeeper’, p. 15).
A character’s taunt level is used when determining which 
character an enemy model will attack (see ‘Encounters’, p. 19).
Character Boards

Equipment Cards
Equipment governs a character’s combat capabilities. Characters 
begin the game with basic equipment but will ﬁnd better 
equipment as the game progresses. Each equipment card 
includes the following information.
2. Illustration
3. Actions
4. Card Type
5. Equipment Slot
6. Range
7. Stat Requirements
8. Block
9. Resist
10. Dodge
11. Upgrade Slots
12. Set Symbol
Equipment Modifiers
Some equipment cards have dice modiﬁers that add a ﬁxed value 
to the die roll or subtract a ﬁxed value from the die roll. 
Embers
When the players ﬁnd an Ember card in the 
treasure deck, place an Ember token on the 
character board of one of the characters. While 
a character has an Ember token, if that character 
suﬀers 3 or more damage from an attack, reduce 
the damage by 1. When the party is defeated in an encounter 
and forced to rest at the bonﬁre, discard all Ember tokens.
A character can never have more than one Ember token. In the 
rare case that the players ﬁnd an Ember card in the treasure deck 
when all characters already have an Ember token, shuﬄe the 
Ember card into the treasure deck and draw a new treasure card 
to replace it (without spending an additional soul).
For example: Te 3 Stamina attack on the Estoc is shown above. 
Tis attack would use three black dice and subtract 1 from the 
total rolled. If a player rolls a 2, a 1, and a blank on the dice, the 
ﬁnal result is 2 damage (3 on the dice roll – 1 for the modiﬁer).
Upgrade Cards
Upgrades are a type of equipment 
card that enhance other equipment 
cards rather than beneﬁting the 
character directly. Each weapon and 
armour equipment card has a slot 
2 showing whether that item 
can hold zero, one, or two upgrades. 
When an item is upgraded, place 
the upgrade card beneath the item 
so that the upgrade’s rules are 
visible. (see ‘Blacksmith Andre’, 
p. 14).
Weapon upgrades 
 provide bonuses to weapon cards 
 
, 
and armour upgrades 
 provide bonuses to armour cards 
.
An equipment card’s actions represent an attack or special eﬀect 
used during an encounter (see ‘Character Attacks’, p. 22).
Each equipment card has a card type with one of several icons 
designating that card as starting equipment, common treasure, 
class treasure, etc. (see ‘Treasure Deck’, p. 9).
While equipped, an item takes up an equipment slot on the 
character board. Armour cards 
 go into the armour slot. One-
handed weapon cards 
 go into either the left-hand slot or the 
right-hand slot. Two-handed weapon cards 
 go into either the 
left-hand slot or the right hand slot and require the other slot to 
be empty. A character can hold up to three weapon cards 
 
 
at a time; all of these weapon cards that are not in hand slots go 
into the backup slot 
, which is the only slot that can hold more 
than one weapon. Weapons in the backup slot provide additional 
options during encounters (see ‘Character Activations’, p. 22).
An equipment card’s range determines the base range from 
which it can attack enemies or assist allies. Note that actions 
on some equipment cards specify a diﬀerent range than that 
equipment card’s base range.
Equipment cards have stat requirements that must be met (or 
exceeded) for a character to use that equipment card.
An equipment card’s Block, Resist, and Dodge values help 
protect the character from damage during encounters (see 
‘Enemy Attacks’, p. 25).
Te upgrade slots determine how many times the equipment 
card can be upgraded at Blacksmith Andre (p. 14), and the 
set symbol shows which Dark Souls™: Te Board Game set the 
equipment card came from.

The Bonfire Tile
Home Base
Te Bonﬁre tile serves as the base of operations for the party’s 
exploration, and the characters may return to it at any time they 
are not in an encounter. Te Bonﬁre tile does not have nodes, 
because it is never the location for an encounter, but it does 
contain numerous important features.
1. Bonﬁre
2. Treasure Deck
3. Inventory
4. Soul Cache
5. Blacksmith Andre
6. Te Firekeeper
Te bonﬁre is the primary feature of the Bonﬁre tile and holds 
the party’s spark dial.
Te Bonﬁre tile has room for the treasure deck as well as a place 
for players to keep their equipment cards that are not currently 
in use. Te spare treasure pile is the party’s inventory.
Another important party resource on the Bonﬁre tile is the soul 
cache. Souls are the currency of Dark Souls™: Te Board Game 
and are used in numerous ways when interacting with the non-
player characters, Blacksmith Andre and the Firekeeper. Te 
soul cache usually starts with 0 soul tokens, but in a game with 
just one player, the soul cache starts with 16 soul tokens instead. 
It’s dangerous to go alone, so purchase some treasure and level 
up your character a bit before facing the dangers that await.

Tis Morning Star has been 
upgraded with a Titanite 
Shard, giving its attacks +1 
damage. As it has only one 
upgrade slot, this weapon 
cannot be upgraded again. 
Furthermore, the Titanite 
Shard cannot ever be 
removed.
Tis Sunless Armour has 
been upgraded with a 
Chloranthy Ring, helping 
characters on the same node 
gain extra stamina every 
turn. As it is an armour 
upgrade, the Chloranthy 
Ring can be freely removed 
or added to diﬀerent armour. 
Sunless Armour has two 
upgrade slots, so you could 
also add a second upgrade 
card if you ﬁnd one.
Blacksmith Andre
When the party returns to the bonﬁre between encounters, 
they may visit Blacksmith Andre to purchase treasure, change 
equipment, and upgrade equipment.
To purchase treasure, remove 1 soul from the soul cache. Draw 
the top card from the treasure deck and reveal it. Any character 
who meets the stat requirements may equip the item if they 
wish. If no character equips the item, place it in the inventory. 
Te only limit to the number of times players may purchase 
treasure is the number of souls in the soul cache.
Characters can change equipment only when they visit 
Blacksmith Andre. To change equipment, a player can move 
any weapon or armour cards from their character board to the 
inventory and move any weapon or armour cards from the 
inventory to their character board provided they meet the stat 
requirements. A character can hold only one armour card (in 
the armour slot) and up to three weapon cards (in the hand and 
backup slots) at a time.
Blacksmith Andre can also upgrade equipment for the party. 
Upgrading weapons and armor does not have a soul cost.
 • Armour upgrades 
 can be freely added to armour cards 
or removed from armour cards.
Weapon upgrades 
 can be added to weapon cards, but 
they cannot be removed from the weapon later. Because this 
is a permanent choice, players need to carefully consider 
where to use their weapon upgrades. When an upgraded 
weapon is placed in the inventory, players may wish to 
turn the cards to the side to make it easy to track attached 
upgrades within the pile of spare cards. Additionally, when a 
character equips an upgraded weapon from the inventory, be 
sure to check that they meet the upgrade’s stat requirements 
as well as the weapon’s stat requirements.

Base to Tier 1
2 Souls
Tier 1 to Tier 2
4 Souls
Tier 2 to Tier 3
8 Souls
Tis character has leveled up their Strength and Dexterity to 
Tier 1 (at a cost of 2 souls each) and their Faith to Tier 3 (at 
a cost of 2 + 4 + 8 = 14 souls). In total, this character has spent 
18 souls over the course of the game so far.
The Firekeeper
Te party may visit the Firekeeper to level up and restore luck.
To level up, a character must spend souls to increase one of their 
stats. To increase a Base stat to Tier 1 costs 2 souls, to increase a 
Tier 1 stat to Tier 2 costs 4 souls, and to increase a Tier 2 stat to 
Tier 3 costs 8 souls. Each stat is upgraded individually, and each 
character levels up individually. Players should work together 
to determine which characters should level up based on the 
equipment cards they have drawn.
Resting at the Bonfire
When the party is defeated in an encounter, the characters 
must rest at the bonﬁre. Te party may also choose to rest at 
the bonﬁre any time they are on the Bonﬁre tile. Resting at the 
bonﬁre restores many of the characters’ limited resources, but it 
also resets the encounter cards. Tis means the players will have 
to ﬁght the enemies from those encounters all over again…
but it also means they can collect additional souls from those 
encounters!
When the party rests at the bonﬁre, the following eﬀects occur:
1. Turn the spark dial down one number.
2. Flip all Estus Flask tokens to the ﬁlled side.
3. Flip all Heroic Action tokens to the ready side.
4. Flip all Luck tokens to the ready side.
5. Turn all encounter cards face down.
When the players set up the tiles again after defeating a mini 
boss, place the characters on the Bonﬁre tile. Tey rest at the 
bonﬁre (without using a spark) before continuing their journey.
Characters can also restore luck at the Firekeeper. A character 
must spend 1 soul to ﬂip their Luck token to the ready side.

Exploration
Into the Dungeon
Players win a game of Dark Souls™: Te Board Game when the 
party defeats the main boss. Teir initial equipment will be 
insuﬃcient to get them there, however, so they’ll need to explore 
the game tiles, gaining souls to purchase treasure and level up. 
Tey’ll want to rest at the bonﬁre along the way, and they’re sure 
to ﬁnd themselves sent back to the bonﬁre in defeat from time 
to time. Until their sparks are exhausted, however, they’ll still 
have a chance to enhance their party in the hopes of winning in 
the end.
Te party moves from tile to tile through the doorways. When 
the party enters a new tile, ﬂip the encounter card on that tile 
face up. Tis marks the beginning of an encounter (p. 19). 
Te party can freely move through tiles that already have their 
encounter cards face up.
The Fog Gate
After the party defeats the encounter on the tile with the Fog 
Gate token, the party may enter the boss encounter or continue 
exploring tiles. If they continue exploring, they may enter the 
boss encounter at any time they are not in an encounter. If they 
rest at the bonﬁre, however, the encounter on that tile will be 
reset, and they will need to ﬁght their way back to the Fog Gate.
Boss encounters work much the same way as other encounters 
but have a few additional rules speciﬁc to boss movement and 
behaviour (p. 26).

Encounter Setup
Encounter Cards
Terrain
Terrain features are tokens placed on terrain nodes. Each terrain 
feature takes up a single node. Terrain features come in the 
following types.
Encounter cards give all of the information necessary to set 
up an encounter. Each encounter card includes the following 
information:
2. Enemy Spawn
3. Terrain Spawn
4. Trap Icons
5. Diﬃculty Level
6. Set Symbol
Place the indicated model quantities and types 
on the spawn nodes based on the enemy spawn 
information. Most encounters have one or more 
models on each spawn node, but some have enemies 
on just a single node. Find the enemy data cards for 
each type of enemy in the encounter.
Place the indicated terrain tokens on the terrain 
nodes based on the terrain spawn information 
(see below).
If the card includes the Trap icons, the encounter 
will have trap tokens as well as enemies and terrain 
(see ‘Trap Tokens’, p. 18).
Te diﬃculty of each encounter is indicated by the encounter’s 
diﬃculty level (Level 1, 2, or 3). Te higher the diﬃculty level, 
the more challenging the encounter will be. Players should 
purchase and equip new treasure before attempting to defeat 
more diﬃcult encounters.
Gravestones
Gravestones block movement. At the start of a 
boss encounter, the party gains information about 
the boss for each gravestone (“Starting a Boss 
Encounter” on page 28).
Barrels
Barrel tokens should be placed with the barrel 
side face up and the destroyed barrel side face 
down. Barrels block movement and pushes, but 
they can be destroyed by characters. A character 
can walk, run, or dodge onto a node with a 
barrel but must spend 1 additional Stamina to 
do so. When they do, ﬂip the barrel token to the 
destroyed barrel side, indicating that it no longer 
blocks movement and pushes. At the end of an 
encounter, ﬂip all barrel tokens back to the barrel 
side in case the players face this encounter again.
Chests
Chest tokens should be placed with 
the closed chest side face up and the 
opened chest side face down. Chests 
block movement. If the party defeats 
the encounter, they can open the 
chest by ﬂipping the token to the 
opened chest side and immediately 
drawing two cards from the treasure 
deck. Characters who meet the stat 
requirements may immediately equip 
the revealed items. Items the players 
do not equip go to the inventory. Once 
opened, chests are never ﬂipped back to 
closed (even after the party rests at the 
bonﬁre).

If the encounter card has Trap icons, place 
all twenty trap tokens face down and mix 
them thoroughly. Place one facedown 
trap token on each basic node of the tile, 
excluding any basic nodes that are along 
a wall that has a doorway. Te ﬁrst time 
a character moves onto a node with a 
face down trap token, ﬂip the trap token over. If the token is 
blank, nothing happens. Otherwise, the character must suﬀer 
the damage or attempt to dodge (p. 22). A trap’s damage 
cannot be blocked. Traps cannot be reset during an encounter 
and will not trigger again during that encounter. At the end of 
the encounter, ﬂip all trap tokens face down, but do not move 
them oﬀ their nodes. Trap tokens have no eﬀect on enemies and 
cannot be triggered by them.
Trap Tokens
Te party moves into this tile from the 
doorway on the bottom edge.
Te encounter card revealed is Te 
Forgotten, showing two Hollow 
Soldiers placed on the top left spawn 
node, a Silver Knight Greatbowman 
on the spawn node to the lower right, 
and a barrel token on the lower left 
terrain node.
Te encounter is also trapped, 
meaning that trap tokens are placed 
on the four basic nodes that are not 
adjacent to the bottom or right walls 
(as they have doorways).
Finally, place the player characters on 
any node along the bottom edge of 
the tile.
Encounter Setup Example

Encounters
The Basics
Once you’ve set up the enemies, terrain, and traps, place the 
character models on the entry nodes beside the door aligned 
with the tile the party moved from. Remember that a node 
cannot contain more than three models.
Next, choose which character led the way into the encounter 
and place the Aggro token on that character’s model. 
Ten the battle begins!
Activating Models
During an encounter, enemy models and characters take turns 
activating, starting with the enemy models. Enemy models 
activate all together, but only one character activates during each 
character activation. In a game with the Knight, Warrior, and 
Herald, for example, the activation order could be:
1. All enemies activate.
2. Knight activates.
3. All enemies activate.
4. Warrior activates.
5. All enemies activate.
6. Herald activates.
Te activation order would then return to the beginning. During 
the very ﬁrst character activation, the players can activate the 
character of their choice. From then on, the order in which 
characters activate goes clockwise around the table. When a new 
encounter begins, the ﬁrst character to activate is the character 
who would have activated next in turn order when the previous 
encounter ended.
See ‘Character Activations’ on p. 22 and ‘Enemy Activations’ 
on p. 24 for additional information.
Ending an Encounter
If the party defeats all the enemies and no characters are 
killed, the party wins. Remove all black and red cubes from the 
characters’ endurance bars (p. 20). Ten:
If the encounter is not a boss encounter, add 2 souls per 
character to the soul cache.
If the encounter is a boss encounter, add 1 soul per character 
to the soul cache for each spark remaining on the bonﬁre.
If any character is killed, the party is defeated. When the party 
is defeated, place all characters on the Bonﬁre tile and place all 
soul tokens from the soul cache on the node where the character 
was killed. Te party must now rest at the bonﬁre (p. 15). To 
retrieve souls from a node, one character must move onto the 
node where the souls were dropped. If a character dies before 
these souls are retrieved, the souls are discarded. Once the party 
has entered an encounter, it cannot leave the encounter until 
either the party or the encounter is defeated.
No matter whether the encounter ends in victory 
or defeat, give the First Activation token to the 
player who is next in turn order after the last 
player who activated their character. Te player 
with the First Activation token will activate their 
character ﬁrst in the next encounter. 

The Endurance Bar
Te endurance bar at the bottom of the character board is used 
to track the character’s Stamina and Health. When a character 
spends Stamina, add one black cube to the endurance bar per 
each 1 Stamina spent. Begin at the left and place one cube in 
each box. When a character suﬀers damage, add one red cube to 
the endurance bar per point of damage suﬀered. Boxes that are 
not covered represent the character’s remaining capacity to spend 
Stamina or suﬀer damage.
If all ten of a character’s endurance bar boxes have cubes, that 
character has been killed and the party is immediately defeated.
When characters gain Stamina or Health, remove that many 
black cubes (for Stamina) or red cubes (for Health) from the 
endurance bar. If a character has no cubes to remove, gaining 
additional Stamina or Health has no eﬀect.
Combat Basics
3 Stamina spent, with the boxes ﬁlled from left to right
3 damage taken, with the boxes ﬁlled from right to left
Target versus Hit
When a character or an enemy makes an attack, the model 
that must defend against the attack is the attack’s target. Most 
attacks have just a single target. Others target all opposing 
models on a single node, and some boss attacks can even target 
all opposing models on multiple nodes (see ‘Boss Attacks’, 
p. 29). Characters never target other characters, and enemies 
never target other enemies.
A character is hit by an attack even if the attack deals 0 damage 
due to the target’s Block or Resist value. Tey could still be 
pushed or suﬀer a condition as explained below. If a character is 
able to dodge the attack, however, they are not hit by the attack.
Each enemy type in the game has a data card breaking 
down how it works in the game. Enemy data cards give the 
information necessary to activate that enemy or to resolve a 
character’s attack against it. Each enemy data card includes the 
following information:
2. Treat Level
3. Attack Range
4. Dodge Diﬃculty
5. Block and Resist Values
6. Behaviour Icons
7. Starting Health
8. Enemy Icon
9. Set Symbol
An enemy’s threat level determines the order in which it 
activates in combat (see ‘Enemy Activations’, p. 24).
Te attack range is the maximum range at which the enemy 
model can attack characters, and its dodge diﬃculty determines 
how hard it is for characters to dodge the attack (see ‘Enemy 
Attacks’, p. 25).
Te enemy’s Block value reduces the damage it suﬀers from 
physical attacks, and its Resist value reduces the damage it 
suﬀers from magical attacks.
Te behaviour icons are the heart of any enemy. Tey determine 
how the enemy behaves each time it activates (p. 24).
An enemy’s starting Health is how much damage the enemy 
can suﬀer before being defeated. When an enemy suﬀers 
damage, place one wound token beside that enemy for each 
point of damage. Once an enemy model has suﬀered damage 
equal to (or exceeding) its Starting Health, it is removed from 
the tile.
Enemy Data Cards

Pushing
Dark Souls™: Te Board Game is a game of dynamic movement. 
Moving and attacking will frequently push a model from the 
node it is on to an adjacent node. Push movement does not cost 
Stamina.
Boss models cannot be pushed by a character’s movement or 
attack. Te only way a boss model can be pushed is if another 
boss model moves onto its node in a boss encounter with 
multiple boss models (see ‘Node Model Limits’, p. 10).
If the Push icon 
 appears on an attack, the model (or 
models) hit by the attack are pushed. Te pushed model or 
models are moved onto an adjacent node that is farther from 
the attacking model. If there are multiple nodes farther from the 
attacking model, the players choose the node.
If the Push icon appears on an enemy’s movement, immediately 
move each character on that enemy’s node onto an adjacent node 
chosen by the players. Each time the enemy moves onto a node, 
move each character on that node onto an adjacent node chosen 
by the players. When an enemy pushes through two or three 
nodes at once, it can result in a very dynamic portion of 
the battle!
Conditions
Some attacks inﬂict conditions on their target. When an attack 
has a condition icon, place the corresponding condition token on 
the model (or models) hit by that attack. A model can have only 
one of each condition token. (For example, a model could be 
aﬀected by a Bleed token and a Poison token at the same time, 
but it could not have two Bleed tokens.) When a model ends its 
activation, remove any poison, frostbite, or stagger tokens from 
that model. Additionally, if any models have condition tokens at 
the end of an encounter, remove those condition tokens as well.
Bleed
When a model that has a Bleed token suﬀers 
damage, it suﬀers 2 additional damage. Ten 
remove the Bleed token.
Poison
At the end of a model’s activation, if it has a 
Poison token, it suﬀers 1 damage.
Frostbite
A character with a Frostbite token must spend 
1 additional Stamina each time it walks, runs, 
or dodges. An enemy with a Frostbite token 
has the movement value on its Move icons 
 
reduced by 1.
Stagger
A character with a stagger token must spend 
1 additional stamina to use their weapons’ 
actions. An enemy with a Stagger token has 
the damage values on its attack icons 
 
reduced by 1.

Character Activations
When a character starts their activation:
Tey gain 2 Stamina.
Tey gain the Aggro token.
Tey may swap items between their backup slot and hand 
slots (see ‘Equipment Cards’, p. 12).
Ten the character can move and attack. Ten their activation 
ends, and it’s time for the next enemy activation.
Character Movement
During an activation, a character may move before attacking or 
after attacking (but not both). Characters have three methods of 
moving from node to node during an encounter. Tey are:
Walk (0 Stamina) – Once per activation, a character may 
move 1 node without spending Stamina.
Run (1 Stamina) – Any number of times per activation, a 
character may move 1 node.
Dodge (1 Stamina) – During an enemy’s activation, when a 
character is attacked by the enemy, the character may move 1 
node and roll to dodge (see ‘Enemy Attacks’, p. 25).
Character Attacks
During an activation, a character can make up to one attack 
with each weapon they are holding in their hand slots. To make 
an attack, the character targets an enemy within range of one of 
their weapons. Tey choose one of that weapon’s attack options 
and spend Stamina equal to the Stamina cost of that attack. 
Ten they roll dice matching the quantity and colour of those 
shown on the chosen attack. Each pip that comes up on the 
rolled die represents 1 damage.
In general, weapons cause physical damage, and players will 
subtract the target’s Block value from the damage total. Spells 
or elemental weapons cause magical damage 
 instead, so 
players will subtract the target’s Resist value from the damage 
total. In either case, the enemy suﬀers the resulting damage. If 
the enemy’s Block or Resist 
 value equals (or exceeds) the 
damage total, the enemy suﬀers 0 damage. Place a number of 
wound tokens beside the enemy model equal to the damage it 
suﬀered. If the total number of wound tokens on the enemy 
equals or exceeds its Health, it is destroyed. Remove the model 
and the wound tokens from the tile.
Te Shortsword has two attack options. For 0 Stamina, roll two black 
dice. For 2 Stamina, roll three black dice.
Example of a movement using a walk and three runs. Tis 
movement costs 3 Stamina.

Tough many weapons simply deal damage, some have 
special abilities explained in text on their cards or with icons. 
Tis includes the Magical Damage icon explained above, the 
condition icons (p. 21), and the following weapon icons.
Some weapon options specify a range that is diﬀerent 
from the weapon’s standard range listed on the equipment 
card. An option-speciﬁc range replaces the weapon’s range 
for that attack.
When a character makes an attack with the Shift icon, 
they may move up to the number of nodes shown. Shift 
icons that appear before the dice icons allow a character 
to move before rolling the dice. Tose that appear after 
the dice allow the character to move after rolling the dice. 
Movement from Shift icons costs 0 Stamina and does 
not replace the character’s options to walk and run during 
their activation.
Attacks with the Node icon can target all enemies on 
a single node within range instead of targeting just one 
enemy. Make the attack roll once, and compare it to the 
Block or Resist value of each enemy on the node.
Bows and polearms are diﬃcult to use eﬀectively at short 
range. Weapons with the Shaft icon cannot be used 
against targets at Range 0.
Te Repeat icon allows the character to use that entire 
weapon option the number of times indicated in the 
circle. Tis represents such eﬀects as combination attacks 
with a melee weapon or rapidly ﬁring bolts from a 
repeating crossbow.
Te Dragonslayer Spear has three attack options. 
For 0 Stamina, roll one black die and one blue die; this attack causes 
magical damage and may not be used against enemies at Range 0.
For 4 Stamina, roll one black die and two blue dice; this attack causes 
magical damage and may not be used against enemies at Range 0.
Also for 4 Stamina, roll two blue dice; this attack causes magical 
damage and may not be used against enemies at range 0, but can be 
used at up to range 4.

Enemy Activations
All enemy models activate during each enemy activation. 
Te order they activate is determined by their threat level, 
beginning with the highest threat and ending with the model 
with the lowest threat. For enemies with equal threat levels, 
players choose the order in which the enemies activate.
Non-boss enemies follow the behaviour icons on their data 
cards. Bosses follow the icons on their behaviour cards instead 
(see ‘Boss Activations’, p. 29). All behaviour icons are resolved 
from left to right. An enemy’s behaviour can be as simple as 
making one attack or can have multiple moves and/or attacks.
Enemy Movement
Te enemy Movement icon 
 shows how an enemy model will 
move. Various smaller icons can appear around the Movement 
icon, modifying how the enemy moves. Tis allows diﬀerent 
enemies to move towards or away from characters in diﬀerent 
patterns and at diﬀerent speeds. Pay attention to each enemy’s 
movement to know where they will strike next!
When an enemy model is moving towards another model, it will 
stop moving when it is on the same node as its target. When an 
enemy model is moving away from another model, it will stop 
moving when there are no nodes farther from its target (which 
usually only happens when the enemy has backed into a corner).
When two diﬀerent nodes would take an enemy closer to where it 
is trying to go, the players can choose which node the enemy enters.
Te enemy moves the indicated number of nodes 
closer to the character with the Aggro token.
If the Movement icon includes the Push icon, the 
enemy’s movement pushes characters out of its 
way (p. 21).
Te enemy moves the stated number of nodes closer 
to the nearest character. If two or more characters are 
tied for being nearest, the enemy moves towards the 
character with the Aggro token. If the model with 
the Aggro token is not tied for being the nearest, the 
enemy moves towards the character with the higher 
Taunt level. If the enemy movement covers multiple 
nodes, determine the nearest character at the start 
of the movement, not at each step.
Te enemy moves the indicated number of nodes 
farther from the character with the Aggro token.
If the Push icon includes a number, characters 
pushed out of the way suﬀer that amount of 
damage during the push (see ‘Enemy Attacks’, 
p. 25).
Te enemy moves the stated number of nodes farther 
from the nearest character. If two or more characters 
are tied for being nearest, the enemy moves farther 
from the character with the Aggro token. If the model 
with the Aggro token is not tied for being the nearest, 
the enemy moves farther from the character with the 
higher Taunt level. If the enemy movement covers 
multiple nodes, determine the nearest character at 
the start of the movement, not at each step.
Move 1 node 
towards the 
nearest character, 
pushing characters 
and inﬂicting 5 
damage.
Move 1 node 
away from the 
Aggro token.
Move 2 nodes 
towards the 
nearest character, 
pushing characters 
it passes through.

Tere are two diﬀerent types of enemy attack icons. Physical 
attacks 
 causes physical damage, while magical attacks 
 
cause magical damage. As with movement, various smaller icons 
can appear around the attack icons, modifying how the enemy 
attacks.
For character attacks, players roll the dice and compare the roll 
total to the enemy’s Block or Resist values. For enemy attacks, 
the attack damage is ﬁxed, and the player can roll to determine 
how much to subtract from the damage. For both attack types, 
the dice rolled depend on the Block or Resist icons on the 
character’s equipped items (those in the character’s armour and 
hand slots). Armour typically provides the greatest Block and 
Resist values, but shields and even weapons sometimes do their 
part. To make a block or resist roll:
1. Look at the enemy’s attack to determine its strength and 
whether it is physical or magical.
2. Gather dice equal to the symbols shown in the character’s 
equipped items’ Block icon 
 (for physical damage) or 
Resist icon 
 (for magical damage).
3. Roll the dice and add them together.
4. Subtract the rolled total from the attack strength.
5. If the roll equals or exceeds the attack value, the character 
suﬀers 0 damage. Otherwise, the character suﬀers the 
resulting damage.
Any time a character is targeted by an attack, they may attempt 
to dodge the attack. Dodging is an all-or-nothing chance to 
avoid damage that replaces the Block or Resist roll. Te choice 
whether to reduce the damage with Block or Resist or attempt 
to avoid it entirely with Dodge is an important one. Te right 
choice depends on the character’s equipped items as well as their 
current Health and Stamina. A successful dodge also means a 
character is not hit by the attack (so they will not be pushed or 
suﬀer conditions from that attack). To make a dodge roll:
1. Look at the enemy data card (or the boss’s behaviour card) 
to determine the dodge diﬃculty 
1 of the attack.
2. Te character must spend 1 Stamina and can move 1 node.
3. Gather dice equal to the symbols shown in the equipped 
items’ Dodge.
4. Roll the dice.
5. If the number of Dodge icons rolled equals or exceeds the 
dodge diﬃculty, the character suﬀers 0 damage. Otherwise, 
they are hit by the attack and suﬀer its full damage.
Enemy Attacks
Te attack targets the character with the Aggro 
token. If that character is not within range 
 of 
the attack, it misses and has no eﬀect.
Te attack targets the nearest character. If two 
or more characters are tied as nearest, the enemy 
attacks the character with the Aggro token. If the 
model with the Aggro token is not tied for being 
the nearest, the attack targets the character with the 
higher Taunt level. If there are no characters within 
range of the attack, it misses and has no eﬀect.
If the attack includes the Push icon, any character 
hit by the attack is pushed (p. 21) after the roll 
is resolved.
If the attack includes the Node icon, it targets all 
characters in one node. Tis can be either the node 
of the nearest character 
 or the node of the 
character with the Aggro token 
. All characters 
on the node are targeted by the attack, and each 
character must separately roll Block, Resist, or 
Dodge. If the node is out of range, the attack 
misses and has no eﬀect.
Some movement behaviours include an attack 
of their own. Movement attacks cause physical 
damage that characters can oppose with a block 
or dodge roll as usual. Tis attack targets all 
characters on each node the enemy moves into. 
(Note that it does not target characters on the 
node on which the enemy started.) If an enemy 
moves 2 or more nodes, this can even result in the 
same character being attacked multiple times as 
the enemy tramples and smashes its way through 
its hapless victim.
Attacks all 
characters on the 
node of the nearest 
character for 5 
physical damage, 
then pushes them.
Attacks all 
characters on the 
node of character 
with the Aggro 
token for 4 
physical damage.
Attacks the 
Aggro token for 3 
magical damage.

Boss Encounters
Boss Basics
Boss encounters are the culmination of the party’s exploration 
and advancement, a true test of the players’ skills and readiness. 
Players often need to battle these bosses more than once, as 
bosses have a great deal more Health than other enemies as well 
as devastating attacks that can send the party back to the bonﬁre 
to rest.
Tere are two types of bosses in Dark Souls™: Te Board Game—
mini bosses and main bosses. Tey follow many of the same rules 
as other enemies, but there are also some key diﬀerences. Follow 
the standard rules for enemy encounters and enemy activations 
except as detailed below.
Boss Data Cards
Boss data cards include some of the same information as enemy 
data cards, but they do not detail the boss’s behaviour (p. 27). 
Each boss data card includes the following information:
2. Treat Level
3. Behaviour Deck Size
4. Heat Up Point
5. Block and Resist Values
6. Special Ability
7. Encounter Levels
8. Starting Health
9. Mini or Main Boss Icon
10. Set Symbol
Te Treat Level, Block Value, Resist Value, and Starting 
Health all function the same way they do on enemy data cards 
(see ‘Enemy Data Cards’, p. 20).
Te Behaviour Deck Size and Heat Up Point are used with the 
behaviour cards (p. 27).
Each boss has a Special Ability that applies to its boss 
encounter. Between a boss’s special ability and its unique 
behaviour cards, each boss encounter is diﬀerent from the last.
Te Encounter Levels determine the diﬃculty level of the encounter 
cards used leading up to that boss (see ‘Initial Setup’, p. 8).

Te bases of boss models are diﬀerent from those of other 
enemies. Tey have a large X on the base that separates the base 
into four distinct arcs—front, left, right, and back. Tese arcs are 
a key part of what makes boss encounters unique, and they add 
an extra layer of tactics to ﬁghting against bosses. 
Instead of behaviour icons on their data cards, bosses display a 
wide range of diﬀerent behaviours during a boss encounter. Each 
behaviour card includes the following information:
2. Attack Range
3. Dodge Diﬃculty
4. Heat Up Symbol
5. Behaviour Icons
Bosses don’t have a single Attack Range or Dodge Value like 
other enemies. Instead, each behaviour card has its own attack 
range and dodge value, representing how far the varied boss 
attacks can reach and how diﬃcult they are to avoid.
Boss’s behaviour cards have behaviour icons much like those 
found on enemy data cards. Bosses have some additional 
behaviour icons that are not found on other enemies (see ‘Boss 
Movement’ and ‘Boss Attacks’ on p. 29).
A few of a boss’s behaviour cards have a Heat Up symbol 
identifying those cards as Heat Up cards. Tese powerful attacks 
are not used at the beginning of the encounter but come into 
play after the party has signiﬁcantly damaged the boss (see 
‘Starting a Boss Encounter’, p. 28). Boss behaviour cards that 
do not have a Heat Up symbol are starting behaviour cards. 
Tose that do are Heat Up behaviour cards.
Behaviour Cards
Boss Arcs
Bosses always directly face an adjacent node. For a model to 
directly face a node, the centre of the model’s front arc must line 
up with the centre of that node. Tis splits the tile into four areas 
deﬁned by the four arcs of the boss. Each node on the tile is in at 
least one of the four arcs. Nodes along the lines between arcs are 
in both arcs, such as the nodes indicated in the diagram below.
Te Dancer of the Boreal Valley is facing the top of the page. 
Above her is her front arc, to her left is her left arc, to her right 
is her right arc, and behind her is her back arc.
Te Dancer of the Boreal Valley is facing the Herald. Te 
nodes with green highlighting are in her front arc, the nodes 
with purple highlighting are in her left arc, the nodes with 
blue highlighting are in her right arc, and the nodes with red 
highlighting are in her back arc.

Once the players choose to enter the Fog Gate, it’s time for a 
boss encounter. Tere are two types of boss tile in Dark Souls 
Te Board Game, a mini boss tile and a main boss tile. Te mini 
boss tile can be identiﬁed by the mini boss spawn node located on 
it. Te main boss tile can be identiﬁed by the main boss spawn 
node located on it. 
When facing a mini boss, place just the mini boss tile on the 
table. When facing a main boss, place both the mini boss and 
main boss tiles down to create one large rectangular room. 
Place the character models on the entry nodes beside the door, 
remembering that a node cannot contain more than three 
models. Ten place the Aggro token on one of the characters, 
and place the boss model on the Mini Boss Spawn node or 
Main Boss Spawn node, as appropriate.
Te next part of setting up a boss encounter is creating the boss’s 
behaviour deck as follows:
1. Separate the standard behaviour cards from the Heat Up 
behaviour cards.
2. Take a number of random standard behaviour cards equal 
to the behaviour deck size on the boss’s data card for the 
behaviour deck. (Note that there are more behaviour cards 
than you will need. Tis allows boss encounters to be new 
each time you face them!)
3. Reveal one random card from the behaviour deck for each 
gravestone on a tile with a face-up encounter card.
4. Shuﬄe the behaviour deck and place it face down within 
easy reach.
At this point, the boss encounter is ready to begin.
When the boss’s Health is reduced to its heat up point or below, 
however, the boss will heat up. Take one random Heat Up 
behaviour card and shuﬄe it into the behaviour deck. Note that 
players will now need to relearn the boss’s attack pattern as well 
as having to face a powerful Heat Up card.
Some bosses have special rules on their boss data card which 
alter how the heat up functions, so be sure to check them before 
starting a boss ﬁght.
After the players defeat a mini boss encounter, place that boss’s 
treasure cards in the inventory. Ten reset the play area to begin 
additional exploration leading up to the main boss encounter 
(see ‘Setup after the Mini Boss’, p. 9).
When the party defeats the main boss, they win the game! Te 
main bosses do have their own treasure cards, but these are used 
only in campaign play (see ‘Campaigns Rules’, p. 32).
Starting a Boss Encounter
Ending a Boss Encounter
To move from the front arc to the back arc, the Knight spends 
1 Stamina (0 to walk + 1 to run).
When characters are on the same node as a boss, they are placed 
in one of the four arcs. When a character moves onto the same 
node as a boss, the character must remain in the arc they were in 
before moving. If the character was in two arcs before moving, 
choose which of the two arcs to move into. Place the character 
touching the boss’s base within that arc. Similarly, when a character 
moves oﬀ of a boss’s node or is pushed oﬀ of a boss’s node, the 
character must remain in the same arc. During a push, if there are 
no available nodes in that arc due to the tile’s wall, the character 
can move to any adjacent node touching the wall instead.
When a character on a boss’s node would move 1 node as part of 
a walk or run, they can instead choose to move around the boss 
to an adjacent arc. When a character chooses to dodge while on 
a boss’s node, they can ignore the normal rules for boss arcs and 
instead move to any arc or onto any adjacent node.
Some boss attacks (p. 29) aﬀect multiple nodes within an 
arc or leave the boss vulnerable in one or more arcs. When 
a character attacks a boss, look at the last attack icon on the 
behaviour card on the top of the discard pile. If the character is 
attacking a weak arc, the attack gains an additional black die. 
Remember that a character can be in more than one arc if it 
is on a node along the arc line. Tis makes it easier to gain the 
weak arc bonus, but it also means the character will be targeted 
by attacks against either arc. Note that even if a character is 
attacking multiple weak arcs, they gain just one black die for 
attacking the boss in a weak arc.
Normal Boss Arcs
Attack Boss Arcs
Weak Boss Arcs

Boss Attacks
Note that bosses do not turn when they make attacks. Tey 
only change facing during movement. Tis can lead to a boss’s 
attack missing characters entirely depending on its range and the 
characters’ positions.
A boss’s attacks are resolved similarly to those of other enemies, 
but bosses have a unique and powerful icon unavailable to other 
enemies: the Area icon.
Some boss attacks target a speciﬁc character or 
node, but many of them target multiple nodes all at 
once. Te Area icon indicates a multi-node attack. 
Te arc diagram below the attack icon shows 
which arcs are aﬀected. All characters on a node 
in one of those arcs within the range of the attack 
are targeted by the attack, and each character must 
separately roll Block, Resist, or Dodge.
Boss Activations
At the start of a boss’s activation, ﬂip over its next behaviour 
card and place it in a discard pile face up beside the behaviour 
deck. Bosses follow the icons on their behaviour cards from left 
to right as usual, but they have several icons (explained below) 
that are not found on other enemies. As with some equipment 
cards, some boss behaviour cards include the ever-dangerous 
Repeat icon, 2 , which means the enemy will perform its entire 
behaviour multiple times when resolving that behaviour card.
When the boss behaviour deck is empty at the start of a boss’s 
activation, pick up the discard pile and turn it face down without 
shuﬄing it to create the boss behaviour deck. Ten combat 
continues normally. Te boss’s attack pattern will continue as it 
was in previous activations; by watching this pattern carefully, 
players can gain the edge they need to defeat the boss.
When a boss moves, it can move in a direction 
without changing its facing. It simply shifts 
forwards, backwards, left, or right. It does not 
rotate when it does so, maintaining its arc 
orientations.
Te Turn icons allow a boss to turn in place. 
Rotate the boss 90° to the left or right, according 
to the icon shown.
Te Rotate icon also allows the boss to turn in 
place, making a full 180° turn.
Te Leap icon allows a boss to move directly to 
its target. Remove the boss from the tile and place 
it on the node where its target is located. A leap’s 
target can be the model with the Aggro token 
 
or the nearest character 
. Tere is no limit to 
how many nodes a boss can travel during a leap. 
Te boss does not change its facing when it leaps, 
so keep all arc markings in the orientation they 
had before the leap was resolved.
All leaps also have the Push icon 
. During a 
leap, characters can be pushed onto any adjacent 
node. Tey are not considered to be in any 
particular arc as the boss comes crashing down on 
their heads.
Boss Movement
When a boss moves towards a character, turn the boss so the 
centre of its front arc faces an adjacent node that is closer to the 
character. Te boss then moves forward onto that node. When 
moving away from a character, turn the boss so the centre of its 
back arc faces an adjacent node that is farther from the character. 
Te boss then backs up onto that node without changing its 
facing. When a boss moves towards a speciﬁc model on its own 
node, the boss turns instead of moving to a new node. Turn the 
boss so the centre of its front arc is facing that model.
Characters on the node with a boss do not move when the boss 
is turned.
When a boss moves onto a node that contains a character, place 
that character base-to-base with the boss at the centre of the 
arc that was facing the character before the boss moved. Te 
character is then on the boss’s node and is still in that arc.

Boss Activation Example
Te boss begins its activation and draws a behaviour card. Te 
ﬁrst icon on the card shows 2 movement towards the character 
with the Aggro token, and it has the Push icon.
At the start of the movement, the boss pushes both characters on 
its node. Each character selects a node within the same arc and is 
pushed onto that node.
Te boss makes its ﬁnal movement forwards. Tere is no node 
available for the character model to be pushed to, so it is pushed to 
an adjacent node along the wall instead.
Stage 1
Stage 3
Stage 5
Stage 2
Stage 4
Stage 6
Te boss is already facing its target, so it doesn’t need to turn to 
face it. Now the boss begins its 2 movement towards the character 
with the Aggro token.
After the push is resolved, the boss moves towards the model with 
the Aggro token. Tis causes the character with the Aggro token to 
be pushed again, onto the only node within the boss’s front arc.
Now that the Movement icon is resolved, the second icon shows 
7 damage at Range 1 to the nearest character, also with the 
Push icon. If the character chooses to dodge, they can move to any 
adjacent node. In this case, the character chooses to block and is 
pushed onto an adjacent node that is farther from the boss.

Post-Game Ritual
Whether basking in the glory of victory or writhing in the agony of defeat, after 
completing a game of Dark Souls™: Te Board Game, players should return all cards to 
the proper decks. Be careful to keep encounter cards separated by level, treasure cards 
separated by type and class, and boss materials separated for each individual boss.

Introduction
Welcome to the Dark Souls™ campaign. Tis is a supplementary rules set for Dark 
Souls™: Te Board Game for those who wish to play through a more extensive Dark 
Souls™ board game experience with a more gradual progression of character stats and 
equipment. Tis section explains how to set up a full campaign designed to last over 
multiple game sessions.
Campaign play within Dark Souls™: Te Board Game revolves around various scenarios 
that mirror confrontations from the Dark Souls™ video game series. Campaigns are 
meant to be played from start to ﬁnish in the recommended order, although they don’t 
need to be played in a single session. Souls, sparks, equipment, and character levels 
gained will be kept for the whole campaign unless they are spent or lost during the 
play-through.
Campaign Rules

Rules of the Campaign
Below are the rules speciﬁc to campaign play that diﬀer from the rules for playing a 
non-campaign game of Dark Souls™: Te Board Game. Other than these speciﬁc changes, 
follow the standard rules while playing a Dark Souls™ campaign.
Setup
Te setup for Dark Souls™ campaign scenarios is largely the 
same as for a standard game. Each section of a scenario has 
varying numbers of exploration tiles before boss encounters, 
however, based upon the length of exploration preceding the 
next boss battle in the Dark Souls™ video game series. Te 
quantity and diﬃculty of the encounters are found in the 
‘Campaign Scenarios Using the Core Set’ section on p. 34.
It is also important to note that some exploration areas can 
contain two or more boss encounters instead of just one. Players 
do not gain additional spark tokens or reset the tiles until the 
ﬁnal boss in an area has been defeated.
Adding and 
Dropping Players
During campaign play, sometimes a new player would like to join 
the party part way through or an existing player is required to leave.
New players can join a campaign that is in progress at the cost 
of 1 spark each. Te new player begins the game with starting 
character stats and equipment. Te new maximum number of 
sparks is based on the new number of characters.
If a player character leaves the party, the party gains 1 spark, 
the character’s equipment is added to the inventory, and the 
maximum number of sparks is changed to reﬂect the new 
number of characters.
The Bonfire Tile
When purchasing treasure from Blacksmith Andre, the cost is 
increased to 2 souls per treasure card. Unwanted treasure cards 
that are not used can be sold back to Blacksmith Andre for 1 
soul each. Tese treasures are discarded and cannot be found 
again during the campaign.
Te costs to level up stats at the Firekeeper change to:
Additionally, each stat on a character board can be upgraded 
to Tier 4 at a cost of 20 souls. Te value of any stat at Tier 4 is 
considered to be 40. 
Progressing through 
the Campaign
As you kill bosses, new bonﬁres are lit, opening up new areas to 
explore. Te campaign ends when the party runs out of sparks or 
the ﬁnal boss of the scenario is defeated.
Dashing Through
Te party has the option to dash through non-boss encounters. 
After entering a room with a face-down encounter card, the 
encounter begins normally by setting up the encounter and 
activating the enemies. Once all enemy behaviours have been 
resolved, the party may decide to dash through the encounter. 
Immediately place character models on the entry nodes of a tile 
connected to the current one.
No souls are rewarded for the encounter, and no Health is 
restored after the encounter; players leave all red cubes on their 
endurance bars. After dashing through an encounter, enemy 
models are removed from the tile, the encounter card is turned 
face down, and players will need to face the encounter (or dash 
through it) if they travel this way again.
Sparks
A group starts a campaign with the standard number of 
sparks (see ‘Initial Setup’, p. 8).
Each time a mini boss, main boss, or mega boss is defeated, 
the party gains 1 spark instead of resetting the bonﬁre’s 
sparks. 
Te party may purchase additional sparks from the 
Firekeeper at a cost of 2 souls per character in the group, 
up to a maximum of the starting number of sparks. (For 
example, an additional spark for a group of three player 
characters would cost 6 souls, and they could have a 
maximum of 3 sparks.)
Base to Tier 1
4 Souls
Tier 1 to Tier 2
8 Souls
Tier 2 to Tier 3
16 Souls

Although it is but your ﬁrst journey, the path of the Chosen Undead is a most treacherous one, 
by no means simple. It will take you through the ruined streets and haunted watchtowers of 
the Undead Burg, over the old stone bridge to Sen’s Fortress, and ﬁnally to the magniﬁcent city 
of Anor Londo, seat of Gwyn, Lord of Sunlight.
Tis will not be an easy undertaking, and enemies will befall you at every step along the way. 
From your ﬁrst moments inside the Undead Burg, you will be assailed by ranks of hollowed 
soldiers and mindless zombies, and your only reward for defeating them will be to face the 
gargoyles that stand vigil over the next destination on your path. If you prevail, you will ﬁnd 
that the same is also true of Sen’s Fortress, the ancient proving grounds of the gods, where 
mighty titanite demons roam endlessly amongst numerous traps and pitfalls.
Finally, if you should survive to reach Anor Londo, you must prepare for battle as never 
before. Awaiting you there are two of the mightiest opponents you ever might face: Dragon 
Slayer Ornstein and Executioner Smough. Tis will be your ﬁnal challenge, but it will not be 
one you shall relish, for many Chosen Undead before you have fallen to them.
The First Journey
Campaign Scenarios Using the Core Set
Dark Souls™ 1

Section 1 
Undead Burg
Gargoyle (Mini Boss)*
Gargoyle (Mini Boss)*
* Te party receives the Gargoyles’ 
treasure only if they defeat two Gargoyle 
boss encounters back-to-back. If they 
are defeated by the second Gargoyle, 
they must ﬁght both Gargoyles after 
making their way back to the Fog Gate.
Section 2 
Sen’s Fortress 
Titanite Demon (Mini Boss)
Section 3 
Anor Londo
Ornstein & Smough (Main Boss)

Te Kingdom of Lothric is the beginning of the journey for all Ashen Ones, after the 
awakening of your kind by the tolling bells. It is here that you will receive the blessing of Iudex 
Gundyr and be passed the Coiled Sword, so that you may rekindle the bonﬁre and take the ﬁrst 
steps along the path of your destiny.
Lothric was once a proud city, renowned to be noble and true, its knights and priests 
courageous and wise. Its ruler was King Oceiros, today known as the Consumed King, his 
madness the cause for the fall of this once-grand place. Now Lothric is ruled only by the 
undead, corpses that refuse to relinquish their hold over the world of the living, endlessly 
wandering the battlements and city walls and spilling into the streets of the Undead 
Settlement beyond.
Te undead here are not alone, however, for amongst them can be found the corrupted guardians 
of old. Te greatest and most deadly of their number are the powerful Winged Knights, their 
holy vows forgotten. Tese are joined by Outrider Knights from the Boreal Valley, driven to 
insanity by the Eyes of the Pontiﬀ and now little more than mindless beasts. If you are to 
continue your journey into Lothric, you must defeat not only these poor, tortured souls, 
but also the most powerful denizen of the High Walls: the dreaded Dancer of the Boreal Valley.
The Coiled Sword
Dark Souls™ 3

Section 1 
High Wall of Lothric
Winged Knight (Mini Boss)
Section 2 
Undead Settlement
Boreal Outrider Knight (Mini Boss)
Section 3 
High Wall of Lothric
Te Dancer of the Boreal Valley 
(Main Boss)

Campaign Tracking Sheet
Dark Souls™: Te Board Game
Permission granted to photocopy this page for personal use only. © Steamforged Games Ltd. 2017
Scenario in Progress
Inventory
Sparks Remaining
Souls in Cache
Section Reached
Encounters in Use
Player 1 Character & Name
Player 3 Character & Name
Player 2 Character & Name
Player 4 Character & Name

Primary spawn node
Primary terrain node
Secondary spawn node
Secondary terrain node
Treasure Chest
Silver Knight Swordsman
Encounter level 1
Barrels
Silver Knight Greatbowman
Encounter level 2
Gravestone
Sentinel
Encounter level 3
Trapped encounter
Encounter Cards
Hollow Soldier
Large Hollow Soldier
Crossbow Hollow
Block 
(vs physical)
Resist 
(vs magic)
Behaviour deck size
Starting Health
Heat Up Point
Treat
Enemy Statistics
Enemy Movement
Move number of nodes in 
indicated direction
Turn 90° right
Turn 90° left
Turn around
Move towards the 
Aggro token
Push characters 
while moving
Deal damage 
while pushing
Leap to speciﬁed 
character (either 
the nearest or the 
Aggro token)
Move towards the 
nearest character
Enemy Attacks
Deal physical damage
Neutral 
Deal magical 
damage
Attack 
Weak 
Attack the character 
with the Aggro token
Push characters 
after attack
Damage all characters 
on target node
Damage all nodes in 
speciﬁed arcs
Attack the nearest 
character
One-handed weapon
Two-handed weapon
Armour
Upgrade slots
Weapon upgrade
Armour upgrade
Block (vs physical)
Resist (vs magic)
Equipment Icons
Black dice
Blue dice
Orange dice
Push aﬀected enemies
Deal magical damage
Damage all enemies 
on target node
Character Attacks
Shaft 
(can’t attack at Range 0)
Move indicated number 
of nodes in any direction
Other Icons
Attack range
Taunt
Repeat behaviour or attack
Dodge
Conditions
Bleed
Frostbite
Poison
Stagger