All you can see on the horizon is the line that separates the sea from the sky.
Suddenly, you glimpse a shore in the distance, and you shiver 
with excitement for the adventure that awaits.
You set off to explore the Galapagos, a magical place 
of incredible beauty and endless biodiversity, 
where you gather specimens and expand your knowledge of the natural sciences.
After inspiring hours spent studying and reaching enlightening conclusions, 
you rest under a sparkling sky, admiring the stunning complexity of the animal realm.

 SPECIAL ACTION TILES 
1 Deliver one of your Specimens that has previously been delivered to the Museum.
2 Advance your Evolution marker 3 times forward.
3 Spend 1 Temporary Knowledge oken to gain 7 Coins or 7 points.
4 Gain 1 Temporary Knowledge token and 3 Coins.
5 Place an unused Explorer at the start of an Island track you aren’t on already.
6 Perform all actions associated with a locked location.
7 Place a Special Wax Seal (purple) on the left-most open spot for a Worker. Pay no Coins.
8 Perform an Unlock Lens Location action without spending Coins.
9 Research any Specimen that you don’t already have.
10 Perform a value 2 Exploration and value 2 Navigation in either order.
11 Place your top Tent onto any open Campsite, pay any costs, and gain rewards.
12 Gain an Objective, then immediately fullfil any of your Objectives without meeting 
the requirements.
 BEAGLE OBJECTIVES 
1 Score 4 points for each of your Yellow Wax Seals.
2 Score 4 points for each of your Red Wax Seals.
3 Score 4 points for each of your Green Wax Seals.
4 Score 4 points for each of your Blue Wax Seals.
5 Score 6 points for each of your Reptile Specimens.
6 Score 6 points for each of your Plant Specimens.
7 Score 6 points for each of your Bird Specimens.
8 Score 6 points for each of your Fossil Specimens.
9 Score 8 points for each of your empty Stamp stacks.
10 Score 5 points for each location you have unlocked.
11 Score 3 points for each of your achieved Objectives.
12 Score 4 points for each of your Tents on Campsites.
 CORRESPONDENCE TILES 
1 1st: Gain 1 Temporary Knowledge token and 2 Coins. | 2nd: Gain 2 Coins.
2 1st: Gain 4 Coins. | 2nd: Gain 2 Coins.
3 1st: Advance your Evolution marker twice. | 2nd: Advance your Evolution marker once.
4 1st: Perform a value 2 Exploration action. | 2nd: Perform a value 1 Exploration action.
5 1st: Perform a value 2 Navigation action. | 2nd: Perform a value 1 Navigation action.
6 1st: Perform an Academy action, pay 2 less Coins. | 2nd: Perform an Academy action.
7 1st: Gain 4 victory points. | 2nd: Gain 2 victory points.
8 1st: Perform a value 1 Exploration and Navigation action in either order. 
2nd: Perform a value 1 Exploration action or Navigation action.
 CREW CARDS 
1 Gain 8 Coins.
2 Perform value 2 Exploration actions up to twice.
3 Advance your Evolution marker 5 steps.
4 Place an unused Explorer at the start of an Esland track you aren’t on already.
5 Perform an Unlock Lens Location action without spending Coins.
6 Place up to 4 Stamps onto any combination of Envelopes.
7 Perform the actions listed on any unachieved crew card.
8 Move your Ship to the same location as the HMS Beagle.
9 Perform all actions associated with a locked location.
10 Place your next unused Tent onto any open Campsite. Pay indicated costs and gain rewards.
11 Place a Special Wax Seal (purple) on the left-most open Seal spot for a Worker. Pay no Coins.
12 Research any Specimen that you don’t already have.
13 Gain 2 Temporary Knowledge tokens and 3 victory points.
14 Gain 8 victory points.
15 Gain an Objective, then fulfil any Objective without having to meet the indicated requirements.
16 Advance your Evolution marker 2 steps, gain 1 Temporary Knowledge token, and gain 3 Coins.
1 Main Board
16 Crew Cards
56 Regular Wax Seals 
(14 per type: yellow, red, blue, green)
12 Special Wax Seals 
(purple)
16 Museum Tiles
16 Specimen Tokens
16 Temporary 
Knowledge Tokens
30 Research Tokens
12 Special Action Tiles
8 Starting Objective Tiles 
(4 silver, 4 golden)
2 Neutral Lens Tokens
40 Coins
(28 value 1, 12 value 5)
12 Beagle Goal Tiles
8 Correspondence Tiles
1 HMS Beagle Token
1 2-player Turn Order 
Action Token
1 Player AID
20 Objective Tiles 
(10 silver, 10 golden)
3 Explorers
5 Workers
5 Tents
4 Cubes
1 Ship
6 Personal
Lens Tokens
12 Stamps
4 Alfred Boards (backside of Personal Boards)
1 Personal Board
8 Alfred Bonus Track Cards (2 for each board)
8 Alfred Action Cards
Overview
Darwin’s Journey is a worker placement game 
where players recall Charles Darwin’s memories 
of his adventures through the Galapagos Islands, 
where he developed his theory of evolution.
With an innovative worker progression system, 
each worker studies the disciplines required 
to perform many actions in the game, such as island 
exploration, ocean navigation, and correspondence. 
Throughout the game, players gather specimens from 
the land and sea to facilitate further scientific research. 
These specimens are then delivered to museums 
to contribute to humanity’s knowledge of biology.
The game lasts five rounds; in each round, 
the players work toward numerous short- and long-
term objectives. At the end of the game, the player 
with the most victory points will be the winner.
GENERAL COMPONENTS
PLAYER COMPONENTS (X4)
SOLO COMPONENTS

Setup
Main Board
1.	 Place the main board with the side 
corresponding to the number of players 
face up. One side of the board is for one-, 
two- & three-player games 
 , while the 
other side is for four-player games. 
2.	 Shuffle the 12 Special Action tiles, 
then draw 6 and place them face up on 
the corresponding Diary. Place the unused 
Special Action tiles back into the box.
Instead of choosing random tiles, place 
the following tiles in the order indicated. 
Each tile has a unique number in the 
bottom right corner.
Top row: 7 & 8 
Middle row: 1 & 9 
Bottom row: 5 & 12
3.	 Place the 2 neutral Lens tokens on 
the two top-most Special Action tiles.
4.	 Shuffle the 8 Correspondence tiles 
and randomly choose 3 to be placed face 
up on the associated envelope locations 
on the main board. Place the other 
Correspondence tiles back into the box.
Instead of choosing random tiles, place 
Correspondence tiles 2, 4, and 5, starting 
from the top and going to the bottom.
5.	 Remove seals as indicated below and place 
them back into the box: 
2-player game only: Remove 2 Regular 
Wax Seals per color. 
3-player game only: Remove 1 Regular 
Wax Seal per color. 
Then, place all Regular Wax Seals (green, 
blue, yellow & red) into a face-down 
shuffled pile near the board.
6.	 Randomly place a Regular Wax Seal face up 
onto each of the 12 Wax Seal spots located 
on the 4 Scrolls on the main board.
7.	 Place all Special Wax Seals (purple) in a face-
up pile on the silver plate on the main board.
8.	 Place the 8 Starting Objective tiles off 
to the side; they will be assigned during the 
player setup steps before the game starts.
9.	 Shuffle the silver and golden Objective tiles 
separately and place these stacks face-down 
onto the matching location on the main 
board. Draw 2 silver and 2 golden Objective 
tiles and place them face up below the stacks.
10.	Place the 16 Museum tiles beside 
the main board, replicating the order 
shown in the Museum display 
of the main board.

11.	Place one Coin to the right of each row 
of the Museum display.
12.	Place one cube of each player color 
on the red book at the start of the victory 
point track. From now on these cubes 
are referred to as victory point markers.
13.	Place one cube of each player color onto 
the large book at the start of the Theory 
of Evolution Track. From now on these 
cubes are referred to as Evolution markers.
14.	Randomly place one cube of each player 
color on the Turn Order track. From now 
on these cubes are referred to as Turn 
Order markers. 
15.	Shuffle the 12 Beagle Goal tiles and place 
5 of them face up at the bottom 
of the map on the associated locations. 
Place the rest of the unused Beagle Goal 
tiles back into the box.
Instead of choosing random tiles, 
place Beagle Goal tiles 7, 4, 10, 8, and 9, 
starting from the left and going to the right.
16.	Shuffle the 16 Specimen tokens 
and randomly place them face up on 
each large, round location with a flag 
 
found on the Island and Ocean tracks 
near the bottom of the board. 
Some of these locations show an icon 
indicating specific player counts. 
Do not place a Specimen token 
on locations marked for more players 
than are currently playing. 
There will now be 6, 3, or 0 remaining 
Specimen tokens when the game 
is played by two, three, or four players, 
respectively. For each remaining 
Specimen token, find the matching 
Museum tile and place those Museum 
tiles onto the matching locations within 
the Museum display near the middle 
of the main board. Put the unused 
Specimen tokens back into the box.
17.	Place all the Coins, Temporary 
Knowledge tokens, and Research tokens 
near the main board.
18.	Place one Explorer of each player color on 
the starting location 
 
 of the 
left-most island.
19.	Place one Ship of each player color in the 
leftmost position of the Ocean track. 
20.	Place the HMS Beagle token on the left-most 
Beagle 
 location on the Ocean track.
21.	Two-player game only: 
Place the 2-player Turn Order Action token 
on the board, covering the Coin reward. 
 

Gaining Crew Cards 
& Starting Objectives
Crew Cards Setup
Each player will now gain 3 Crew cards by 
following one of two methods:
Option 1: First Play Setup
1.	 Search through the Crew card deck and 
give players the cards indicated later. Each 
card has a unique number in the bottom 
right corner. The Turn Order track shows 
the order, from left to right, that players 
will gain these cards (see Main Board Setup 
step #14).
1st player - Crew cards 1, 2, and 3. 
2nd player - Crew cards 4, 5, and 6. 
3rd player - Crew cards 7, 8, and 9. 
4th player - Crew cards 10, 11, and 12.
2.	 Players reveal their 3 chosen Crew cards 
and place them face up next to their 
3.	 Players take the corresponding Regular 
Wax Seals, shown in the top right corner of 
each Crew card, from the Wax Seals supply.
Reshuffle the Regular Wax Seal stack after all 
necessary Wax Seals have been taken.These are 
placed onto the left-most empty Wax Seal spots 
next to each worker so that each worker starts 
the game with one Wax Seal next to them.
4.	 For details on achieving Crew cards and 
their rewards, look to page 22.
1.	 Each player places in front of them 
the following items that match their 
player color:
•	1 Personal Board
•	2 remaining Explorers
•	5 Workers
•	5 Tents
•	6 Personal Lens Tokens
•	1 Cube
•	12 Stamps
2.	 Place 4 workers onto worker spots on the 
bottom left of the personal board (2A). 
The 5th worker (2B) will only enter play once 
the left-most golden Objective 
is achieved (2C).
3.	 Place the 5 Tents onto the Tent locations 
in the bottom right area of the personal board.
4.	 Make three stacks of 4 Stamps each 
and place one stack onto each associated 
Stamp location in the bottom right area 
of the personal board.
5.	 Take 4 Coins from the supply.
6.	 Take 1 Temporary Knowledge token 
from the supply.
2C
2A

Option 2: Standard Setup
5.	 Shuffle the deck of Crew cards and deal 
4 cards to each player. 
6.	 Each player selects one card to keep 
and places it face down in front of them. 
7.	 Players pass the remaining cards to their left. 
This process repeats until each player 
has three cards face down in front of them. 
8.	 Place all cards not chosen during the draft, 
along with the rest of the Crew card deck, 
back in the box.
9.	 Players reveal their 3 chosen Crew cards and 
place them face up next to their personal board.
10.	 Players take the corresponding Regular Wax 
Seals, shown in the top right corner 
of each Crew card, from the Wax Seals supply. 
Reshuffle the Regular Wax Seal stack after all 
necessary Wax Seals have been taken. 
These are placed onto the left-most empty 
Wax Seal spots next to each worker so that 
each worker starts the game with 
one Wax Seal next to them.
11.	 Details about achieving Crew cards can 
be found on page 22. Details about Crew 
card action icons can be found on page 18.
Drafting Starting 
Personal Objective Tiles
Each player begins the game with 2 Starting 
Objective tiles (1 silver and 1 golden). 
They will gain more Objectives throughout the 
game. Players achieve Objectives once 
they meet the Objective’s indicated requirements. 
Objective requirements and the resulting 
Objective actions are explained in detail 
on pages 20-21.
1.	 Sort the Starting Objective tiles into two 
stacks based on their color (silver or golden) 
and shuffle each stack separately.
2.	 Place a row of Starting Objectives 
from the silver stack so that they are face-up 
and equal in count to the number of players.
3.	 Place a second row of Starting Objectives, 
this time from the golden stack, so that each 
is directly under one face-up silver Objective. 
Each set of silver and golden Objective tiles 
that are next to each other are considered 
a pair that cannot be separated during setup.
4.	 The player whose Turn Order marker 
is farthest to the right on the Turn Order 
track (see Main Board Setup step #14) 
drafts one pair of silver and golden 
Objective tiles. Place these Objective tiles 
on the right-hand side of that player’s 
personal board, next to the Objective rows.
5.	Continuing left on the Turn Order track, 
each player selects a pair of silver 
and golden Objectives.
2B

Playing the Game
Game Overview
Darwin’s Journey consists of five rounds 
with four phases each: Action, Turn Order, 
Reward, and Cleanup. During the Action 
Phase, players send their workers to a wide 
variety of locations across the Galapagos 
Islands, where they explore and conduct 
research. During the Turn Order Phase, 
player turn order is adjusted based on 
who sent workers to the turn order 
location during the Action Phase. During 
the Reward Phase, players receive benefits 
based on their correspondence with the 
scientific community and their progress 
toward the current Beagle goal. Finally, 
during the Cleanup Phase, players prepare 
the game for the start of the next round 
or proceed to final scoring after all five 
rounds have been completed.
Key Concepts
•	
Each time a player activates an action icon, 
they perform that action immediately. 
•	 Players are allowed to use anything 
gained from one action to pay the costs 
of following actions within the same turn.
•	 Players may achieve Objective tiles or Crew 
cards at any point during the Action 
or Reward Phases to immediately gain 
the associated actions as a reward. Because 
of this, players might be able to perform 
actions when it is not currently the Action 
Phase. Achieving Objectives and Crew 
cards are explained in detail on page 21.
•	Whenever a player performs 
an action with or covers up 
a Coin with a red number on 
it, they must pay the indicated 
number of Coins to the supply.
Worker Placement
Before explaining the individual phases 
of the game, let’s first focus on how to place 
workers on the main board.
Diary Sections
On the main board, there are 4 Diaries 
(2 Main, 1 Special Action, and 1 Small).
 
 
Each Diary contains one or two Diary Sections, 
depending on the number of players. 
A red bookmark in the middle of the Diary 
divides it into two Diary Sections. All worker 
placement locations on the left side 
of the bookmark are considered a separate 
Diary Section from the locations on the right. 
If the Diary does not have a bookmark, the 
entire Diary is one single Diary Section.
 
 
 
Placement Penalties
There is no additional cost for placing 
the first worker, regardless of color, into a single 
Diary Section. If a Diary Section already has 
1 or more workers of any color (including 
the active player’s), the active player must pay 
Coins to the supply as a placement penalty. 
The number of Coins spent depends on player 
count, and the cost is always the same no matter 
how many workers are in the Diary Section. 
 
Two players - 3 Coins 
Three or four players - 2 Coins
Main
Special
Small
Main
The yellow player unlocks a 
Special Action 
by paying the cost of 4 Coins.
The entire Diary 
is a single Diary Section.
Each page of the Diary 
is a separate Diary Section because 
the red bookmark is present.
The Small Diary is always 
a single Diary Section, 
regardless of the player count.

that opponent gains 1 Coin from the supply. 
Players do not gain a Coin for placing a 
worker onto their own Lens token.
Square or Rectangular 
Magnifying Glass
Any number of workers may be placed 
on a square or rectangular Magnifying Glass, 
including multiple workers from a single player. 
There is never a placement 
penalty for placing workers 
onto these locations, 
no matter how many workers 
are already there.
Worker Placement 
Locations
There are three types of worker placement 
locations, each with a different shape.
Circular Magnifying Glass
These only appear within 
Diary Sections. Any number 
of workers may be placed on 
a circular Magnifying Glass, 
including multiple workers 
from a single player.
Players must pay a placement penalty 
if their worker is not the first one placed 
within that Diary Section.
Unlocked Lenses
Lens action locations can be printed 
on the main board, unlocked with neutral 
Lens tokens during setup, and unlocked 
with player-specific Personal Lens tokens.
Only one worker may be placed 
on an unlocked Lens.
Players must pay a placement penalty 
if their worker is not the first one placed 
within that Diary Section. 
Whenever a player places a worker onto a 
Lens token that matches an opponent’s color, 
The green player performs an Exploration action by paying a placement penalty 
of 2 Coins since other workers have already visited this Diary Section
The blue player performs a Navigation action for free since it is the first worker 
to visit that Diary Section.
The blue player places a worker 
onto a Lens belonging 
to the yellow player, therefore 
the yellow player will gain 
1 Coin from the supply.

Wax Seal 
Requirements
Many placement locations have Wax Seal 
requirements that must be met to place 
a specific worker there. Each player starts the 
game with four workers on their personal board, 
and each worker starts with one Wax Seal in 
their corresponding row. Each player’s fifth 
worker will never have any Wax Seals next 
to it and can be unlocked using an Objective, 
discussed in detail on page 21.
The top worker has a Special Wax Seal (purple) 
and no empty Wax Seal spots, while the other 
3 workers have the Wax Seal gained during 
setup and five empty Wax Seal spots that 
can be covered with tokens during the game. 
Regular Wax Seals come in four colors 
(green, blue, yellow, and red) and are associated 
with specific requirements on the main board.
Special Wax Seals (purple) are 
treated as if they were any color.
A worker may only go to a location if that 
specific worker has at least the corresponding 
number of Wax Seals of the indicated colors 
on its row of that player’s personal board.
If a worker placement location requires more 
than one Wax Seal of a specific color, the Wax 
Seal icon will have a number next to it.
Wax Seals are never removed once they are 
placed in a worker row. 
Each player starts the game 
with a single Temporary 
Knowledge token next to their 
personal board. These tokens 
may be spent back to the supply 
while placing a worker to act 
as any color Wax Seal to meet the 
location’s Wax Seal requirements.
Perform 
Location Actions
After placing a worker and paying any Coin 
penalties, the active player may perform 
all actions at that location. Each action 
is designated by an icon. If a worker placement 
location has multiple action icons, the player 
may perform the actions in any order. 
The player is not required to complete all actions. 
Note that any benefits gained from an action 
may be used to pay for other actions during 
that player’s turn.
The worker being used for the current action has 
1 green Wax Seal and 2 yellow Wax Seals.
Since the worker is missing 1 green Wax Seal requirement, 
the player must spend a Temporary Knowledge token to 
meet the actions’ Wax Seal requirement.
1: worker placement location 
2: Wax Seal requirement to place a worker 
3: Action that may be performed

Board Actions
These actions appear on the main board 
on worker placement locations or on various 
tracks on the map at the bottom of the board.
Gain Victory Points
This action also appears on Special Action 
tiles and Crew cards.
The active player gains 
the indicated number of victory 
points by moving their marker 
up the victory point track.
If they now have more than 50 points, they 
should place a marker of their color on the 
“50” icon in the top right corner of the main 
board. This marker is the cube that was placed 
next to their personal board during setup. 
This new marker is moved to the right 
whenever the player crosses the “0” points 
space on the track again. Place the original 
marker back on the “0” space and continue 
using it to track additional points gained.
Gain Coins
This action also appears on Special Action 
tiles and Crew cards.
The active player gains the indicated 
number of Coins from the supply.
Modifier Icons
Indicates the number of times the 
associated action may be performed 
on this turn.
Represents a total discount for that 
particular action.
 
You won’t pay any Coins to perform 
all steps of that particular action.
 
Perform the indicated previously 
played action once again.
 
The associated effect is applied for 
the rest of the game.
 
This action is gained once the game 
is over, during final scoring.
 
Immediately perform this action or 
apply the bonus. 
Collect the corresponding reward 
based on one of the islands 
containing an Explorer of your color.
Round Structure
Each of the game’s five rounds consists of four 
phases completed in order.
Action Phase
On each player’s turn, they must place 
a single worker from their personal board onto 
a location on the main board. If a player 
no longer has any available workers, 
they must pass, and they take no more turns 
for the rest of the phase.
During the Action Phase, players take turns 
placing workers in the order indicated 
by the Turn Order track on the main board. 
The player whose marker is in the left-most 
location on the Turn Order track now places 
1 worker and performs the location’s actions 
in any order of their choice. After this, the player 
whose marker is in the 2nd-left-most location 
on the Turn Order track will take their turn. 
Continue from left to right until all players 
have placed 1 worker. Once every player has 
placed their first worker, repeat the order until 
all workers have been placed.
The game has a variety of different actions 
organized into four types: Board Actions, 
Special Actions, Crew Actions, and Objective 
Actions. Many actions also have a modifier icon 
in their top right corner affecting how 
the associated action is performed.
1st
2nd
3rd
4th

Unlock Lens Location
The active player may place 1 
personal Lens token onto a locked 
location on any Main or Special 
Action Diary.
Every locked location shows a Coin penalty 
that must be paid before the personal Lens 
token can be placed on it.
Note that this action is usually performed after 
placing a worker onto the small Diary and 
thus has a placement penalty if another worker 
has already visited the same Diary Section.
As a special unlocking bonus, the active player 
may immediately perform all associated 
actions with this location without placing 
a worker and ignoring all Wax Seal requirements.
This location is now unlocked for the rest 
of the game, and any player may place 
a worker onto it during their turn, if available.
If a player places a worker onto a personal 
Lens token of an opponent’s color, 
that opponent gains 1 Coin from the supply. 
Players do not gain a Coin when placing 
a worker on a Lens token of their own color.
On each page of the Main Action Diaries 
shown in the picture, all actions must 
be unlocked in order (from top to bottom).
The Special Actions included in the Diary shown 
in the picture may be unlocked in any order.
Academy
The active player may purchase 
one Wax Seal from any Scroll 
in the Academy. If there is a Coin 
penalty associated with the Scroll 
row where the Wax Seal was taken 
 , those Coins must be paid 
to the supply.
The player adds the new Wax Seal to the left-
most empty Wax Seal spot on any worker’s 
row on their personal board. If the Wax Seal 
is placed on a spot with a Coin penalty 
 , 
those Coins must be paid to the supply.
Once a worker gains its 4th and 6th Wax Seal, it 
will also gain the benefits of the silver 
 and 
golden 
 distinctions, respectively. These 
will give extra options and/or discounts to the 
actions performed by that worker. 
These will be described in detail on page 19.
Navigation
The active player may move 
their Ship along the Ocean track 
up to the number of spaces 
associated with the value shown 
in the top right corner of the icon. 
Any number of Ships, 
including the HMS Beagle, 
can be on the same location 
at the same time. 
When a Ship crosses a silver banner 
 
on the Ocean track, the active player must 
place an Explorer onto a new island. Each 
island has a starting location marked with 
The yellow player is paying 
4 Coins to unlock a Special 
Action Diary location.

an Explorer icon matching the icons on the 
silver banners on the Ocean track. The active 
player places an Explorer from their personal 
area onto the corresponding island starting space.
Any number of Explorers may be on the 
starting location of an island at the same time.
If there is an action icon where the Ship 
stopped, the active player may now perform 
the indicated action. The first player to place 
a Ship onto the final location of the Ocean 
track gains 3 additional victory points. 
 
Note that there is no effect associated 
with stopping on a Beagle space. 
Exploration
The active player may move 
a single Explorer of their color 
along a corresponding Island 
track up to the number of spots 
associated with the action being 
performed.
Any spot occupied by an opponent’s Explorer is 
skipped and does not count towards the total 
movement amount.
Only one Explorer can be on each location, 
except for the first and last spot on each 
Island track. Any number of Explorers 
can stop at these locations.
The first Explorer to cross over a golden 
ribbon 
 on the Island track will gain the 
active player victory points equal 
to the number on the ribbon’s icon. 
Only the first Explorer to cross a golden 
ribbon will award these points.
After moving their Explorer, the player 
immediately performs the indicated action 
shown on the location where the Explorer 
stopped. The first player to place an Explorer 
onto the final location of the Island track 
gains 3 additional victory points.
 
The yellow player is performing an Exploration 
action of up to two spaces. The yellow Explorer 
will skip the spot occupied by the green Explorer, 
moving to locations (1) or (2) depending on 
which action they want to perform.
The blue player performs a Navigation action. 
Since the ship passes the silver banner on the 
Ocean track, the blue player places an Explorer 
onto the corresponding island starting space.

Theory of Evolution 
Track Advancement
The active player moves their 
Evolution marker forward 
on the Theory of Evolution track 
as many individual spaces as the 
number shown in the activated 
action icon.
Some spaces on the track contain Book 
Multiplier icons that only have an effect during 
final scoring. Scoring the Theory of Evolution 
track is described in detail on page 25.
Research Galapagos Specimen
These actions appear on Specimen tokens that 
are placed on Island and Ocean tracks.
The active player may place a Research token 
onto the matching Specimen icon on their 
In each of these examples, the green player will collect 
a sample by placing a Research token on the matching 
location on their personal board. In the top example, 
they collect the green reptile and in the bottom, 
they collect the green bird. 

Establish Campsite
This action may only be 
performed if there is an empty 
Tent location next to the 
activated icon.
The active player removes the top-most Tent 
from their personal board and places it onto 
an empty Tent location next to the action icon. 
If the location has a Coin penalty, the player 
must pay the number of Coins to place the Tent.
The active player may perform any additional 
actions indicated by the icons shown 
in the location where they just placed their Tent.
After performing the “Establish Campsite” 
action, the player may perform action icons 
next to the location where a Tent token was 
removed (on their personal board). Note that 
some personal board Tent actions have a slash 
between two options; the player may perform 
only one of these two actions.
Correspondence 
The player may move Stamps 
from their personal board to 
a single Envelope on 
the main board.
The action’s icon indicates the number of 
Stamps that may be moved. The player may 
take the Stamps from any combination of 
stacks on their personal board, but they may 
only place them onto one Envelope.
After the player has finished placing their 
Stamps onto the main board, if the final 
Stamp was removed from one or more stacks, 
the player may perform any of the actions 
associated with the depleted stack(s).
Each Envelope represents bonus actions that 
can be performed during the Reward Phase 
by the players with the most and second-most 
Stamps placed there. This will be described in 
detail on page 23.
During the Reward Phase, some Stamps 
might be discarded to the used Stamps tray 
next to the Envelopes. When performing 
a Correspondence action, if there are not 
enough Stamps in the player’s personal board 
stacks, the active player may take Stamps 
of their color from the used Stamps tray until 
they have enough Stamps to perform the action.

Deliver Specimen 
The active player may deliver 
one Specimen to the Museum 
if that Specimen’s matching 
Museum tile is not already 
in the Museum display.
The player may only deliver a Specimen if they 
have a Research token placed on it on their 
personal board. The player takes the matching 
Museum tile, which was set aside during setup, 
and places it on the corresponding location 
for that Specimen on the Museum display.
If this is the first Museum tile placed into a row 
(excluding Specimens placed during setup), 
the active player takes the Coin next to that row.
If this was the last Museum tile placed into 
a row, the active player may move their 
Evolution marker one space forward on 
the Theory of Evolution track.
The active player gains Coins and Evolution 
marker advancements based on the Specimen 
token’s position in the Museum. They must 
consider each space in the row and column 
when placing the Museum tile, as each will 
give them a benefit. For each empty space, 
they gain 1 Coin, and for each space that 
already has a Museum tile, they move their 
Evolution marker forward once on the Theory 
of Evolution track. The newly placed tile does 
not give a bonus action at this time.
Note that you can deliver up to 2 Specimens 
when visiting the Museum – the first Specimen 
is free, and the second costs a penalty of 3 Coins. 
Players may use the Coins gained from 
delivering the first Specimen to pay for 
the delivery of the second Specimen.
Example: By Delivering the green reptile 
Specimen to the Museum, the active 
player gains 2 Theory of Evolution track 
advancements and 4 Coins.

Research Museum Specimen
The active player selects 
a Museum tile that is already on 
the Museum display 
on the main board.
They may now place a Research token onto the 
matching Specimen icon on their personal board.
Note that you can Research up to 2 Specimens 
when performing the Research Museum 
Specimen action –the first Specimen is free, 
and the second costs a penalty of 3 Coins.
Reserve Turn Order
The active player places their 
worker on the left-most empty 
spot within the rectangular 
magnifying glass above the Turn 
Order track.
They then gain 2 Coins from the supply 
(3 Coins in a two-player game)
. The order 
of the workers within this spot will affect the 
turn order for the following round, explained 
in detail on page 22.
Gain Objective 
The active player may take one 
available Objective tile from the 
main board’s Objective display and 
place it face up in their reserve, 
next to their personal board to the 
right of the Objective rows.
A maximum of 2 Objective tiles can be placed 
in a player’s reserve. Both tiles may be of the 
same type (silver or golden).
If there are already 2 Objective tiles 
in a player’s reserve, the player must place 
the new Objective tile face up onto an empty 
Objective location of the matching type 
(silver or golden). If the location is marked 
with a Coin penalty icon, the cost must 
be paid to place the tile. Achieving Objectives 
and their associated rewards is discussed 
in detail on page 20.
 
 
 
Either type of Objective tile can be placed 
into these two reserve locations to the right 
of the personal board.
Both reserve spots are full, so the newly gained 
Objective tile must be placed face-up 
onto an empty space in the silver row.

Place Explorer
The active player may place 
one of their unused Explorers 
onto the starting location of any 
island where they do not already 
have an Explorer.
Perform Locked Action
The active player may perform 
all the actions associated with 
a locked location without a Lens 
token on it. The player does not 
unlock it, does not place a worker, 
and does not need to have 
the required Wax Seals.
Research Any Specimen
The active player may place 
a Research token onto any empty 
Specimen location on their 
Move up to the HMS Beagle
The player moves their Ship 
to the same spot where the HMS 
Beagle is located on the Ocean track.
Distributed Correspondence
The player may place up to 
4 Stamps onto any number 
of Envelopes on the main board, 
freely distributing them.
Copy Crew Card
Gain and immediately perform 
all Crew actions shown on any 
unachieved Crew card in front 
of a player, including the player 
who owns the Crew card 
with this ability.
Special Actions 
& Crew Actions
Special Action tiles and Crew cards have 
a variety of action icons on them. Many of 
these icons depict board actions which have 
already been explained in an earlier section. 
The following are new actions that appear 
on Special Action tiles and Crew cards:
Establish Any Campsite
The active player may place a 
Tent onto any empty tent 
location on any Campsite and 
pay any corresponding Coin 
penalty. The location of their 
Explorers or ship does not affect 
this action. They then may 
perform any actions at that 
Campsite and any actions on 
their personal board next to 
where the Tent was removed.
Repeat Delivery
The active player performs 
a “Deliver Specimen” action 
for a Specimen that has already 
been delivered to the Museum.
The player must have a Research token for the 
associated Specimen on their personal board. 
This action is performed exactly as if they were 
placing the Museum tile for the first time, 
including the additional bonus if this token is 
the last one of the row to be delivered. If the 
selected Museum tile had previously been the 
first delivered to that row, the first-delivery bonus 
Coin is not taken when that delivery is repeated.
Automatically 
Fulfill an Objective
The active player may 
immediately achieve any one 
of their Objectives. The player 
does not have to meet any of the 
Objective’s requirements and can 
place it face down onto any open 
Objective location on their personal 
board. Any corresponding Coin 
penalties at the chosen location 
must be paid.
The player then takes the associated Objective 
action as a reward. These rewards are explained in 
detail on page 21.
Gain Special Wax Seal (purple)
The active player takes a Special 
Wax Seal (purple) from 
the supply and places it on the 
left-most empty Wax Seal spot 
in one of the worker rows 
on their personal board without 
paying a Coin penalty.
This Special Wax Seal acts as any color 
for the purposes of worker placement 
Seal requirements.
Gain Temporary Knowledge
The active player gains one 
Temporary Knowledge token 
from the supply. These tokens 
may be spent back to the supply 
while placing a worker to act as 
any color Wax Seal to meet a 
location’s Wax Seal requirements.
Convert Temporary Knowledge 
The active player may return 
one Temporary Knowledge token 
to the supply to gain 7 Coins or 7 
victory points.

Extra Stop - While Exploring 
or Navigating, an Explorer or Ship 
can stop on its way to perform 
the indicated action before completing 
its movement. It then performs the 
action of its last stop as normal.
 
Split Stamp Locations - Stamps 
placed with this Correspondence 
action may be placed onto multiple 
Envelopes instead of just one.
Wax Seal Discount - Pay 1 fewer 
Coin for each Academy action. 
This discount may apply to the 
cost of taking a seal from the board 
or the cost of placing the seal on a 
 
Gain Victory Points - Immediately 
gain 3 victory points. 
There are endgame victory points associated 
with a worker gaining its 5th and 6th Wax Seal. 
Players gain the victory points at the top of the 
column for each worker with a Wax Seal in that 
column. A worker with 5 Wax Seals will receive 
3 victory points, while a worker with 6 Wax 
Seals will receive an additional 7 points, 
for a total of 10 victory points. Endgame 
scoring is explained in detail on page 25.
Distinctions
Once a worker gains its 4th Wax Seal, it obtains 
the silver distinction. Once it gains its 6th 
Wax Seal, it obtains the golden distinction. 
Each Diary Section has distinction bonuses, 
shown in a box at the top of that area, that are 
associated with silver and golden distinctions. 
When a worker with the silver distinction 
is placed into a Diary area, the active player 
receives the bonus with the silver distinction icon.
Extra Exploration - Add up to 
one movement to the associated 
Exploration action.
Extra Navigation - Add up to 
one movement to the associated 
Navigation action.
Extra Stamp - Add up to one 
more Stamp with this 
Correspondence action.
Extra Wax Seal - Gain up to one 
more Wax Seal with this 
Academy action. 
Any scroll and/or personal board 
Coin penalties must be paid.
Gain Coins - Gain two Coins from 
the supply.
 
When a worker with the golden distinction 
is placed into a Diary area, the active player 
receives the bonuses associated with both 
the silver and golden distinction icons.
The blue player is using a worker with both 
silver and golden distinctions on an Exploration 
action; therefore, their Explorer will be able 
to stop twice for the golden distinction. First, 
they research the Specimen (2) and then land 
at their final destination (4) to collect 4 victory 
points.
Example: The yellow worker, which has both silver and 
golden distinctions, will be able to place 2 Stamps for 
the main action plus 1 additional Stamp for the silver 
distinction. By having the golden distinction, the player 
may freely distribute the Stamps among all Envelopes.

Achieving Objectives 
& Crew Cards
Each Objective tile and Crew card has specific 
fulfillment requirements listed on them. 
Players may fulfill Objective tiles and/or Crew 
cards in their personal area any time during 
their turn in the Action Phase or any time 
in the Reward Phase.
Objectives
Each Objective has a specific set of requirements 
that a player must meet to achieve that Objective. 
Note that players never have to spend 
anything to achieve an objective; they just 
have to meet all of the requirements. 
When an Objective is achieved, the Objective 
tile is either flipped face down onto its location 
or moved from the player’s reserve next 
to the player board and placed face down on 
an empty Objective location of the matching 
color (silver or golden). If the tile is moved 
from the reserve and the chosen Objective 
location is marked with a Coin penalty icon, 
the cost must be paid to achieve the Objective.
When an Objective is achieved, the player 
gains the reward associated with the location 
where the newly achieved Objective was placed (1). 
Note that all victory point rewards on the 
personal board (2) are gained once 
the game is over. 
If a player fulfills both Objectives on the right-
most silver and golden locations, they will be 
rewarded with 4 additional points during 
final scoring. 
A detailed explanation of these Objective 
actions can be found on page 21.
Objective Requirements
All symbols shown in the Objective 
Requirements without a number represent 
one single requirement of that type.
The player must have the 
indicated number of empty 
Stamp stacks on their 
 
The player must have placed at least 
the indicated number of Research tokens onto 
Specimens with the matching Specimen symbol 
The player must have placed at least the 
indicated number of Research tokens onto 
Specimens of the matching shape/color on 
their personal board.
The player’s Evolution marker 
must be on, or past, the indicated 
position on the Theory of 
Evolution track. Note that this is 
the number of steps on the track, 
not the number of books achieved 
on the track.
 
 
The player must have placed 
at least the indicated number 
of Tents onto Campsites.
The player must have placed 
at least the indicated number 
of their personal Lens tokens 
to unlock actions.
The player’s Ship must be at least 
on the same position, or farther, 
on the Ocean track as 
the HMS Beagle.

The active player places a Research 
token onto any Specimen on 
the player’s personal board that 
matches any Specimen token 
found on an island with that 
player’s Explorer.
When scoring the Theory 
of Evolution track, the player 
adds 1 Book multiplier to the 
number of Book multipliers 
reached on the Track. This 
happens before scoring the 
Theory of Evolution track.
Gain 5 victory points 
during final scoring.
If the Objectives above and below 
this icon are achieved, gain 4 
victory points during final scoring.
Gain 8 victory points 
during final scoring.
The player immediately takes 
a Special Wax Seal (purple) from 
the supply and places it onto the 
left-most empty Wax Seal spot 
on one of the worker rows 
on their personal board. They 
do not have to pay any indicated 
Coin penalty for this placement. 
The player may move their 5th 
worker from the side of the 
player’s board onto this spot to 
unlock the worker.
The player may use this worker in the current 
round if this is achieved during the Action Phase.
The player may use this worker for the rest of 
the game. Wax Seals cannot be placed next to 
this worker, but Temporary Knowledge tokens 
may be spent to meet Wax Seal requirements.
The placement penalty 
for visiting an occupied Diary 
Section is reduced by one 
for the rest of the game.
During Beagle goal scoring, each 
Lagging penalty between the 
player’s Ship and the HMS Beagle 
is reduced to a maximum of 2 (i.e., 
the penalty will be 1 or 2 victory 
points from now on). Refer to the 
Beagle goal scoring section 
on pages 23-24 for more details.
The player must have the indicated 
number of Regular Wax Seals 
of the indicated Wax Seal colors 
on their personal board. These 
Wax Seals do not have to be in 
the same row of their personal 
board. Special Wax Seals (purple) 
and Temporary Knowledge tokens 
may not be used to meet Wax Seal 
requirements on objectives.
Objective Actions
Select a previously placed Tent 
of that player’s color and perform 
the associated actions as if the 
Tent had just been placed for 
the first time. No Coin penalties 
are paid with this re-activation.
The player no longer pays 
the Coin penalty for taking Wax 
Seals from any Scroll row 
in the Academy. They must still 
pay the Coin penalty associated 
with the Wax Seal placement 

Crew Cards
Crew cards have four areas of note:
1.	 The Regular Wax Seal that is assigned 
to a specific worker during setup.
2.	 Required minimum Wax Seals that 
a specific worker will have to accomplish 
to achieve the Crew card action. 
3.	 Achieved Crew card action.
4.	 Crew card number used for rules reference 
and setup.
Each Crew card has a list of Wax Seals shown 
in the center row of the card. In order to 
achieve a Crew card, a player must have 
a worker with at least the indicated Wax Seals 
on its Wax Seal row (not necessarily in order). 
Only one accomplished Crew card can be 
assigned to a specific worker’s row. Note that 
Special Wax Seals (purple) act as any color 
for the purpose of achieving Crew cards. 
Temporary Knowledge tokens, however, 
cannot be spent to fulfill a Crew card.
During the Action and Reward Phases, 
players may achieve their Crew cards. 
Players do this by performing the actions 
on the bottom of the card and flipping 
the card over to denote that it has been 
accomplished. Crew card actions are 
explained in detail on page 18. 
After flipping the card over, the player places 
it to the left of their personal board with the 
arrow pointing towards the worker used to 
achieve that card. The card is now associated 
with that worker, and that worker can no 
longer achieve Crew cards.
Modify Turn Order Phase
If there are any workers on the Turn Order 
location, then the Turn Order track must be 
modified. The player whose worker is farthest 
to the left must move their Turn Order marker 
to the #1 location on the track. If there is more 
than one worker at this location, each player 
moves their Turn Order marker to match 
the relative position of the placed workers. 
Turn Order markers will only move in relation 
to others if a worker is placed. If no workers 
are placed on this location, then the turn order 
will not change.

Reward Phase
Players gain rewards for Correspondence 
majorities and Beagle goals. These rewards 
are gained in the current turn order.
Correspondence Majorities
Three Envelopes give benefits to players with 
the most and second most Stamps on each 
Envelope. These majorities are determined 
starting at the top envelope and moving down. 
The player with the most Stamps on an 
Envelope may now perform all the actions 
shown in the first section of the associated 
Correspondence tile as their reward. If there is 
a tie, then all tied players may perform these 
actions in current turn order.
The player with the second-most Stamps 
on an Envelope may now perform all actions 
shown in the second section of the associated 
Correspondence tile as their reward. If there is 
a tie, then all tied players may perform these 
actions in current turn order. Note that if 
there is a tie for first-place, the second-place 
reward will still be performed.
Then, all players who performed an action 
as a majority reward must remove half their 
Stamps, rounding up, from the corresponding 
Envelope and put them into the used Stamps 
tray on the main board.
Score Beagle Goal Tile
The Beagle Goal tile, directly below the HMS 
Beagle’s position on the Ocean track, is now 
scored. Each player gains the indicated number 
of victory points each time they meet the 
current goal’s condition. The gained points 
may be reduced by penalties depending on the 
relative position of the players’ Ships to the 
HMS Beagle. 
Goal Conditions
Gain 4 victory points for each of the 
indicated Regular Wax Seals on the player’s 
personal board. Do not score for Special 
Wax Seals (purple). 
Gain 6 victory points for each Research token 
of the indicated Specimen type on the player’s 
Gain 5 victory points for each 
personal Lens token of the player’s 
color on the main board.
Gain 8 victory points for each 
empty Stamp stack on the 
player’s personal board.
Gain 4 victory points for each of 
the player’s Wooden Tents on the 
main board.
Gain 3 victory points for each 
achieved Objective.
Victory Points gained by scoring Beagle goals 
will be affected by the Lagging Penalties 
described on the next page.
After calculating the Correspondence 
majorities of the first Envelope, 
both the blue and yellow players 
are tied for most Stamps. They 
will both get the first reward of 
1 Temporary Knowledge token 
and 2 Coins each. The green 
player has the second-most and 
will obtain the second reward of 
2 Coins. All players then discard 
half their Stamps rounded up 
(blue and yellow 2 Stamps each, 
and green 1 Stamp).

Lagging Penalties
If a player’s Ship is behind the HMS Beagle 
on the Ocean track, the player’s Beagle Goal 
points are reduced. Each victory point penalty 
 between the player’s Ship and the HMS 
Beagle reduces victory points gained by 
the indicated amount. This penalty will never 
bring the number of victory points gained 
from a Beagle Goal tile to less than zero.
Once all players have scored the Beagle Goal 
tile, flip the scored tile face down.
For reference see the adjacent example 
to the right.
Cleanup Phase
If it is the fifth round of the game, the Cleanup 
Phase is skipped, and players proceed to final 
scoring. Otherwise, the Cleanup Phase should 
be performed as follows:
1.	Move the HMS Beagle along 
the Ocean track to the next 
Beagle Goal position.
2.	 All players return their workers back 
to their personal boards.
3.	 Remove all of the remaining Objectives 
from the main board and draw 2 new silver 
and 2 new golden Objectives. Place them 
on their associated locations.
4.	 Remove all Wax Seals on the top-most Scroll 
on the main board. Shift all remaining Wax 
Seals to the top-most positions until there 
are no empty Wax Seal locations above 
any Wax Seal token. Then draw new Wax 
Seals and fill all empty Wax Seal spots 
on the Scrolls.
The green player owns 3 red Wax Seals and 
should score a total of 12 victory points, but 
since the Ship is two thresholds away from the 
HMS Beagle, the player will get a total penalty 
of -7 victory points. Therefore, the green player 
will score a total of 5 victory points.

Theory of Evolution 
Track Scoring
Before players can score 
this section, the universal 
Museum modifier must be 
calculated. This modifier 
equals 2 plus the number 
of Museum rows with all 
four Museum tiles placed 
on the board.
The resulting number is the Museum 
modifier. Each player now multiplies the 
Museum modifier by the number of books 
the player reached or passed on the Theory 
of Evolution track. Players gain the resulting 
number of victory points.
Note that when scoring the 
Theory of Evolution track, 
if a player has completed this 
Objective, they add one Book 
Multiplier to the number 
of Book Multipliers reached 
in their Theory of Evolution track.
Final Scoring
After the fifth round is complete, players 
proceed to final scoring, where they will 
gain all endgame 
 victory points from 
their personal board, the Theory of Evolution 
track, leftover Coins, and leftover Temporary 
Knowledge tokens.
Personal Board Scoring
Each achieved Objective awards the player 
endgame victory points. If a player achieved 
the right-most silver and golden Objectives on 
their personal board, they also gain the 4 victory 
points shown between those two locations.
Each worker with 5 Wax Seals in their 
corresponding row awards the player 3 victory 
points. Each worker with 6 Wax Seals awards 
an additional 7 victory points for a total of 10 
victory points gained from each workers’ Wax Seals.
If a player has placed all 5 Tents on Campsites, 
they receive 5 victory points.
Coins & Temporary 
Knowledge
Players gain 1 victory point for every complete 
set of 5 Coins they have left over.
Players gain 1 victory point for each Temporary 
Knowledge token they have left over.
The player with the most victory points is the 
winner. If there is a tie, the player that has 
advanced their Evolution marker farthest 
on the Theory of Evolution track is the 
winner. If there is a further tie, the player 
with the most leftover Coins is the winner. 
If there is still a tie, players share the victory.
The blue player will receive 36 
victory points by multiplying 
4 victory points (2 points + 
1 additional point for each 
completed row) by 9 
(Book Multiplier on the Theory 
of Evolution track).
A - 1 + 1 + 2 + 5 for the silver Objectives 
B - 4 + 8 for the golden Objectives 
C - 4 for completing both Objectives on the last column 
D - 5 for having used the last Tent 
E - 3 + 3 for the workers with 5 Wax Seals 
F - 7 for the worker with 6 Wax Seals
A
B
C
D
E
F

Darwin’s Journey 
Solo Rules
Darwin’s Journey can be played solo, where 
the player competes against an artificial 
opponent named Alfred.
Setup
Select Alfred’s 
Difficulty
Each player board has an Alfred opponent 
on its opposite side. There are several difficulty 
levels of Alfred that can be chosen:
White - Easy 
 
Blue - Medium
 
 
Yellow - Advanced
 
 
Green - Advanced 
A.	Select an Alfred difficulty level and place 
the associated board nearby.
B.	Flip the unchosen boards over to their 
player sides and choose one for yourself.
C.	Gather all player pieces of your color 
and Alfred’s color and place them next 
to their associated boards.
Main Board
Follow the ‘Main Board Setup’ instructions for 
a two-player game with the following changes:
A.	During step #2 of the base game setup, 
only shuffle and reveal 4 Special Action tiles 
instead of 6. Leave the bottom row of the 
Special Action Diary empty.
B.	During step #9 of the base game setup, 
after you shuffle the two Objective tile 
stacks, only place one silver and one golden 
Objective face up on the board.
C.	Skip step #14 of the base game setup 
and instead place the 2-player Turn Order 
Action token on top of the Turn Order track. 
Place the marker corresponding to Alfred 
in the first position of the Turn Order track 
and your marker in the second position 
of the Turn Order track.
Follow the ‘Player Setup’ instructions without 
any changes.
Gaining Crew Cards
A.	Shuffle the Crew cards, draw 5 cards, 
and place them face up. 
B.	Select 3 of these cards to keep and place 
the other 2 back in the box. 
C.	Take the corresponding Regular Wax Seals, 
represented in the top right corner on the 
chosen Crew cards, from the Wax Seals 
supply. These are placed onto the left-most 
empty Wax Seal spots next to their workers 
so that all workers have one Wax Seal 
next to them.
Drafting Starting 
Personal Objective 
Tiles
Follow the ‘Drafting Starting Personal 
Objective Tiles’ instructions for a two-player 
game with the following changes:
During step #4, select one of the available 
pairs and place the tiles on the right side 
of your personal board, next to the Objective 
rows, and remove the other pair from the game.
Alfred Setup
Follow the standard ‘Player Setup’ instructions 
with the following changes: 
1.	 During step #1, ensure that the personal 
board is showing the Alfred side. 
Place Alfred’s personal board directly 
above your own.
2.	 Find the 2 Alfred Bonus Track cards 
of Alfred’s color. Randomly place them 
above the two indicated spots on Alfred’s 
Bonus track at the top of their board.
3.	 During step #2, place 4 of Alfred’s workers 
onto the A, B, C, & D spots on Alfred’s 
board. Place Alfred’s 5th worker onto 
the left-most space of the Bonus track 
at the top of Alfred’s board.
4.	 Skip step #5 and place one Coin onto the 
indicated spot 
 on Alfred’s Coin Track 
along the bottom of Alfred’s board.
5.	 Skip step #6 and instead shuffle the 8 
Alfred Action cards and place them face 
down in a stack below your personal board.

associated actions are performed in the order 
they were crossed.
Coin Track 
Alfred’s Coins are tracked using the Coin 
Track. When Alfred spends Coins, the Coin 
on the track moves to the left an equal number 
of spaces as Coins spent. When Alfred gains 
Coins, the Coin on the track moves to the 
right an equal number of spaces as Coins 
gained. Alfred can have a maximum of 12 
Coins; each excess Coin gained will instead 
move Alfred’s worker one space on the Bonus 
track. If Alfred spends their last Coin, place 
the Coin outside the track to indicate that 
its value is 0.
General Gameplay
Turn Order
The game is played as if there were 2 players, 
which means the Placement Penalty 
will be 3 coins.
During each of the game’s rounds, Alfred 
always takes the first turn. Alternate turns 
between Alfred and the Player until all workers 
have been played.
The Turn Order Action area has been replaced 
by the 2-player Turn Order Action token 
which changes the effect of this action. 
When the active player places a worker there, 
the player gains 3 Coins instead of 2. There is 
no further effect from this action when playing 
solo, as Alfred is always the first to place a 
worker in each round.
Alfred’s Gameplay
Alfred’s Board Tracks
Alfred’s board has two tracks, a Bonus track along 
the top and a Coin Track along the bottom.
Bonus Track
Whenever the 
 action is activated, the 
worker on Alfred’s Bonus track moves to the 
right by the number of spaces shown on the 
icon. Alfred gains the indicated victory points 
every time the bonus worker lands or surpasses 
the right-most spot of the track.
When surpassing the right-most spot of 
the track, the bonus worker lands onto the 
left-most spot of the track, which means this 
track is a loop.
If the bonus worker surpasses or lands on the 
5th or 10th spot on the Bonus track, Alfred 
performs the action on the Bonus Track card 
placed above that spot according to the current 
round number.
If both the 5th and 10th spots are surpassed 
or landed on with one movement then both 
Alfred Turn Structure 
The solo experience of competing with Alfred 
is similar to that of a standard two-player 
game. On each turn, Alfred sends one worker 
to a location on the main board or to the rest 
spot 
 on Alfred’s board. 
Step 1: 
Draw Alfred Action Card
Before drawing a card, if both Alfred Action 
cards show a Delivery Action icon, reshuffle all 
Alfred Action cards, wherever they are, 
to create a new deck.
 
Draw the top card from Alfred’s Action card deck 
and place it face up below your personal board.
All cards drawn from Alfred’s Action card 
deck must be displayed next to each other.
Step 2: 
Perform One Action
Each Alfred Action card has two or three 
different action options shown. Alfred will 
only perform one action per turn and will 
always attempt to perform the top-most 
option first. If there is no legal way for Alfred 
to perform that action, the next action is 
attempted. The bottom option on every Alfred 
Action card is a Rest action 
 , which can 
always be legally performed.

workers, and available Coins. The strongest 
location is defined as the bottom-most 
unlocked, empty worker placement location 
(1 is stronger than 2, and 2 is stronger than 
3) for which Alfred has at least one Wax Seal 
matching the placement’s requirements.
If Alfred doesn’t have enough 
Wax Seals to meet the strongest 
location’s requirements, they 
can spend 3 Coins to add a 
Temporary Knowledge.
Alfred must purchase as many Temporary 
Knowledge tokens as they can afford until 
they reach the Wax seal requirements of 
the strongest location. If Alfred does not 
have enough money to reach the location’s 
requirements using Temporary Knowledge 
tokens, no Coins are spent, and Alfred 
chooses the next strongest location available.
All non-rest Alfred action options that are 
executed successfully place one of Alfred’s 
workers onto a main board action space. Unless 
otherwise stated in the rules below, Alfred 
performs these actions following the standard 
rules for players.
Alfred’s workers will never gain distinctions 
and will therefore never use the distinction 
effects shown on the main board.
Rest Action
Place the bottom-most 
available worker onto any 
available hammock spot in 
the Rest action area 
of Alfred’s board. Alfred then 
gains 7 Coins and moves 
the Bonus Track worker 
two spaces to the right.
Main Diary Action
The Main Diary action 
shows a list of four 
descending letters 
corresponding to Alfred’s 
workers.
This list defines the priority order for selecting 
the worker to use for this action, with the left-
most letter being the highest priority. Alfred 
will attempt to place the highest priority 
worker that is available on their personal 
board. If there is no legal way to place 
this worker onto a Main Diary, Alfred uses 
the next worker in the priority order. If no 
workers have legal placements, this action 
cannot be performed and Alfred will attempt 
the next action option on the action card instead.
Remember, Main Diaries are defined as 
the Diary Sections in the top-left and top-
middle sections of the board. They contain 
Exploration, Navigation, Correspondence, 
and Academy actions.
Each Main Diary placement space has Wax 
Seal color requirements that Alfred’s selected 
worker must meet.
Alfred must pay 3 Coins to place a worker into 
an occupied Diary Section. If Alfred cannot 
afford the Coin penalty, the worker cannot be 
placed in that Diary Section.
Strongest Placement Location
Alfred will always try to place the worker on 
the strongest location possible. The strongest 
location is based on owned Wax Seals, unlocked 
locations on the main board, previously placed 
Example: The worker goes 
to the strongest Navigation 
location available by 
paying 3 Coins to gain 
Temporary Knowledge that 
fulfills the requirement of 
3 blue Wax Seals.

Priority Cost
When there are multiple locations available 
of equal strength, Alfred’s worker goes to the 
location which requires they spend less coins for 
Temporary Knowledge.
Priority Color
When there are multiple available locations 
of equal strength and requirements/cost, 
Alfred’s worker goes to the location associated 
with the worker’s left-most matching Wax Seal.
Once a legal placement has occurred, 
all associated actions will be performed 
by Alfred as described in the multiplayer 
rules, with the following differences:
Gain Objective
When Alfred activates this action, they discard 
one Objective from the main board, if possible. 
If there are multiple Objectives, the golden 
Objective is discarded.
Alfred then moves the Bonus 
worker forward on the Bonus 
track. The Bonus worker 
always moves, even if no 
Objective was discarded.
Gain Temporary Knowledge Token
Alfred never takes Temporary 
Knowledge tokens from the 
supply. Instead, they gain 3 
Coins for each token they 
would have gained.
Academy
Each of Alfred’s worker rows has a bracket 
between two Wax Seal spots. When Alfred 
performs the Academy action to take a new seal, 
they place the seal in the top-most worker row 
with at least one empty Wax Seal spot to the left 
of its bracket. If there are no empty Wax Seal 
spots to the left of any bracket, Alfred places 
the seal in the top-most worker row with 
at least one empty Wax Seal spot to the right 
of its bracket.
Example: Both available Exploration and 
Navigation locations are equally strong; 
therefore, the worker performs the Navigation 
action for free instead of performing the 
Exploration action, which would require a 
Temporary Knowledge token costing 3 Coins.
Example: Both bottom-most Navigation and 
Exploration locations are locked or occupied, 
and both middle Navigation and Exploration 
locations are occupied; therefore, the worker 
goes to the top-most location. Because both of 
these locations have the same requirements/
cost, Alfred’s worker goes to the green 
Exploration action since the worker’s left-most 
Wax Seal is also green.

Note: If this action indicates 
that no Coins are spent, Alfred 
attempts to take a Wax Seal 
matching the selected worker’s 
primary (left-most) color from 
any Scroll in the Academy, unless 
they have three Wax Seals of that 
color already. Otherwise, they 
will take the top-left-most Wax 
Seal from the Academy.
Alfred always takes a Wax Seal from the cheapest 
Academy Scroll (unless the action indicates 
that no Coins are spent, as described below). 
 
Alfred will never place a 4th Wax Seal of 
the same color within a row. If they cannot 
afford the scroll to gain a different color, 
or if none of a different color is available, 
then this action cannot be performed 
and they will attempt the next action option 
on the action card instead. 
 
If there are multiple Wax Seal to choose from:
1.	 Alfred takes the Wax Seal matching 
the color of the selected worker’s left-most 
seal, unless that worker already has three 
Wax Seals of that color.
2.	 Otherwise, Alfred takes the left-most Wax 
Seal. If all seals in the cheapest Scroll would 
be the fourth Wax Seal of a color for the 
selected worker, Alfred takes the seal from 
the next Scroll, obeying the same rules.
Alfred must pay the indicated Coins shown 
on the Academy Scroll from where they took 
the Wax Seal.
If the taken Wax Seal is placed on top of an 
action, the action is immediately performed.
Example: Alfred will take the yellow Wax Seal 
from the Academy since it matches the selected 
worker row’s left-most color and there are less 
than three yellow Wax Seals in that row.

Correspondence
Alfred always takes Stamps from the top-most 
available stack of Stamps on their board.
The Stamps are placed onto one letter on the 
main board with the following priority:
1.	 The top-most Envelope where, by placing 
the Stamps, Alfred takes the Stamp 
majority away from the Player. 
 
 
 
2.	 Otherwise, the top-most Envelope that 
currently doesn’t have any of Alfred’s Stamps.
Example: Alfred is performing a 
Correspondence action, placing 3 
Stamps in the second Envelope to 
steal the majority from the player.
Example: Alfred will take the red Wax Seal since worker row “A” already has 3 yellow Wax Seals 
and the red Wax Seal is the left-most seal of the first Academy Scroll.
Example: Since the first Scroll in the Academy is empty, Alfred will take a Wax Seal from the second 
Scroll. Because all Wax Seal spots to the left of both brackets in the top two worker rows have been 
filled, Alfred will take the green Wax Seal since it matches the color priority of the worker row “C.”

Navigation
Alfred’s Ship moves the full distance indicated 
on the Navigation action icon. If there are 
multiple path options, the Ship takes the 
longest route. This means Alfred’s Ship will 
always take the longest possible path along the 
Ocean track.
 
 
After advancing, the Ship performs every action 
that it sailed through or landed on during 
the advancement. These actions are performed 
in the order they were crossed.
If Alfred’s Ship passes a silver banner, one of 
their Explorers is placed on the starting 
location of the associated island, just like 
in the multiplayer game.
3.	 If all three Envelopes have Alfred’s Stamps, 
the new Stamps are placed on the Envelope 
with the least number of Alfred’s Stamps. 
If there are multiple options, the top-most 
option is selected.
If Alfred removes the last Stamp from a stack 
with an icon next to it, that icon’s effect 
becomes active. These could give Alfred extra 
actions or an effect that is associated with 
certain player Objective bonuses. These can be 
found on page 21.
Exploration
Alfred’s Explorer on the right-most island moves 
the full distance indicated on the Exploration 
action icon. If this Explorer is already at the end 
of that Island’s Track, Alfred will instead move 
the Explorer found on the next island to the left. 
If the selected Explorer reaches the end of an 
Island track, any excess movement is lost. If there 
are multiple path options, the Explorer will take 
the route with the most spaces. This means the 
Explorer always takes the longest possible path 
along the Island’s Track.
Alfred researches all Specimens found along the 
way and gains the indicated victory points on 
each golden ribbon their Explorer passes, as long 
as it is the first Explorer to pass each ribbon.
After moving, Alfred performs the last two 
actions that their Explorer moved over 
or landed on with this movement. These actions 
are performed in the order they were crossed. 
If one of these two actions involves researching 
a Specimen, Alfred ignores that action and 
performs only the other action, as Alfred will 
have already researched the Specimen.
Example: Alfred is performing a 
Correspondence action, placing two 
Stamps. Since they already hold the 
majority in the second Envelope, 
they will place them in the top-most 
Envelope, which currently doesn’t 
have any of their Stamps. 
Example: Alfred is performing 
a Navigation action of up to 
2 steps. They take the longest 
route, which then allows them to 
perform a Campsite action.
Example: Alfred is performing an Exploration 
action of four steps by taking the longest route, 
researching all the Specimens encountered 
along the road (1), and performing the last 
two actions (3 and 4).

Establish a Campsite
Alfred places the top-most Tent from their 
board onto the activated Campsite as long 
as there is a space for the Tent and they can 
afford the indicated Coin penalty. If there are 
multiple available spots for the Tent, Alfred 
chooses the cheapest location. If Alfred has 
no more Tents or can’t pay the Coin penalty, 
this action is ignored, and no Tent is placed.
Alfred will not perform a different action 
to replace an ignored Campsite action.
After placing the Tent, Alfred performs any actions 
associated with that Campsite. If there are any 
icons on their personal board to the right of the 
removed Tent, these now come into effect. These 
icons could reward Alfred with extra actions or an 
effect associated with particular player Objective 
bonuses. These rewards can be found on page 21.
Special Action Diary
 
 
Alfred will only send a worker to the Special 
Action Diary if there are no other workers on 
the Special Action Diary. If there is at least one 
worker on the Special Action Diary, Alfred attempts 
the next action option on their action card. The 
bottom-most available worker is moved to the 
top-left or top-right worker placement spot 
within the Special Action Diary. The exact position 
is dictated by the action showing the worker going 
to the left or right side. Alfred does not activate 
this action at this location, and the worker does 
not need to meet the Wax Seals requirements 
for this placement. Instead, Alfred moves the 
Bonus worker 4 times on the Bonus track.
Small Diary Action
Alfred only sends a worker to a Small Diary 
location to perform an unlock action when 
there are no other workers on the Small Diary. 
If there is at least one worker on the Small 
Diary, Alfred attempts the next action option 
on their action card.
When Alfred chooses a Small Diary location, 
the bottom-most available worker is moved 
to either Unlock Lens spot on the Small Diary. 
Alfred then places one of their Lens tokens 
onto a currently locked Main Diary location 
with the following priority:
1.	 The top-most locked location that has 
Wax Seal requirements that their top-most 
worker can satisfy and where Alfred is 
able to pay any associated Coin penalty. 
The top-most worker does not have to be 
available for this determination.
A.	If there are multiple unlock options, 
Alfred places the Lens token on the 
top-most locked location that has the 
top-most worker’s priority color as a 
requirement. Priority Color is defined 
on page 30.
B.	If none of the locked location options 
match the top-most worker’s priority 
color, the Lens token is placed on the 
location that uses the most of the 
top-most worker’s Wax Seals.
C.	If multiple locations require the same 
number of the top-most worker’s seals, 
Alfred unlocks the location that uses 
a seal farthest to the left on that worker row
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.	 If no locked locations have Wax Seal requirements 
for which Alfred’s top-most worker has at least 
one matching seal, then Alfred moves down 
to the next worker row and follows the 
rules from step #1 again. If no suitable 
locations are found using the second worker 
row, Alfred continues down, following the 
rules from step #1.
The worker is placed on the 
Special Action tile to the 
left. Alfred will then move 
the Bonus worker forward 
on the Bonus track.
The worker is placed on the 
Special Action tile to the 
right. Alfred will then move 
the Bonus worker forward 
on the Bonus track.
Worker A has 2 blue Wax Seals 
and a red Wax Seal, the priority should be 
unlocking a Navigation action, but since 
it is already unlocked, Alfred will place 
a Lens in the Academy action. If The 
Worker A also had a green Wax Seal, the 
Lens would still be placed in the Academy 
action as the green Wax Seal is further to 
the right compared to the red Wax Seal.
Worker A has 2 blue Wax Seals and a yellow 
Wax Seal, the priority should be unlocking a 
Navigation action, and if already unlocked, 
a Correspondence action; but since both of 
the actions are unlocked, Worker’s B priority 
color is considered. Worker B has 2 green 
Wax Seals, therefore a Lens will be placed on 
the Exploration action.

Reward Phase
Alfred and the Player score the Correspondence 
Envelopes in the same way that is described 
in the multi-player section of the rulebook, 
found on page 23.
The Player scores for the HMS Beagle tile as in 
the base game, but Alfred ignores this tile.
Instead, Alfred gains points 
equal to the value shown on 
their personal board multiplied 
by the current round number.
Then subtract all lagging penalties between their 
Ship and the HMS Beagle from the multiplied total.
Cleanup
Perform the standard Cleanup Phase, 
but only place one new silver and one new 
golden Objective into the Objectives action area.
Slide the bottom rows of the two Bonus Track 
cards under Alfred’s board so that the lowest 
visible row matches the next round’s number.
Endgame Scoring
The Player and Alfred both gain endgame 
points according to the multi-player rules.
The Player wins if they have a higher final 
score than Alfred. If there is a tie, the Player 
wins if their Theory of Evolution track 
marker is farther than Alfred’s marker. 
If there is still a tie, the Player wins if they 
have more leftover Coins than Alfred. 
If there is still a tie, Alfred wins.
B.	If there are still multiple options, 
Alfred delivers their top left-most valid 
Specimens to the Museum. In case of a 
further tie, the player chooses.
2.	 If Alfred and the Player have not researched 
the same Specimens, Alfred will deliver 
the valid Specimens that will earn the most 
Coins. If there are multiple options, Alfred 
delivers their top left-most valid Specimens 
to the Museum. In case of a further tie, 
the player chooses.
Alfred gains the bonus Coin or Evolution 
marker advancements from the Museum as 
described in the base game.
Prolific Correspondence Action
When Alfred performs this 
action, they place one Stamp onto 
each of the three envelopes on 
the main board. Stamps are taken 
from the top-most available stack 
Add Explorer Action
When Alfred performs this 
action, they place one of their 
Explorers onto the starting 
location of a new Island track. 
Select the leftmost Island track 
that does not already have one 
of Alfred’s Explorers on it. 
Step 3: End of Turn
Once Alfred has performed all actions associated 
with their worker placement, their turn is over, 
and the Player can now take their turn.
Turn Order Phase
This phase is ignored when playing against Alfred 
because Alfred always goes first in each round.
3.	 If no locked locations have Wax Seal 
requirements for which any of Alfred’s 
workers have at least one matching seal, 
Alfred unlocks the cheapest Main Diary 
location. If there are multiple options, 
the left-most location on the board 
will be unlocked.
If Alfred cannot pay the Coin penalty for any 
locked locations, they will attempt the next 
action option on their action card.
After placing the Lens token, Alfred attempts to 
perform all actions on the unlocked location.
Alfred gains 1 Coin whenever the Player places 
a worker onto one of Alfred’s Lens tokens.
Alfred will never unlock a Special Action location.
Deliver Specimens Action
Alfred will deliver up to two 
Specimens following the rules 
of the base game, with the 
second delivery costing 3 Coins.
Remember that a Specimen is only valid for 
delivery if its associated Museum tile is not 
in the Museum area of the main board.
The bottom-most available worker is moved 
to the Museum action on the main board. 
If Alfred has more than two valid Specimens, 
the following priority is used for selecting 
which Specimens should be delivered:
1.	 If both the Player and Alfred have researched 
the same valid Specimens, Alfred delivers 
those Specimens.
A.	If there are multiple options, Alfred 
delivers the valid Specimens that will 
earn the most Coins.

Game Design: Simone Luciani and Nestore Mangone
Illustrator: Paolo Voto
Solo mode imagined by: Dávid Turczi
Publisher: ThunderGryph Games
PM: Gonzalo Aguirre Bisi
Art Direction: Pierpaolo Paoletti
Rulebook Author: Jonathan Cox
Rules Proofing: Jessica Longhurst and Cristina Aguirre Bisi
Graphic Design: Daniel Tosco
Mockups: Erick Tosco
Rules Layout: Guido Vitabile
Thanks to the Support of: Cristina Bisi and Luis González
www.thundergryph.com
Thundergryph SLU, Avda. República Argentina, 24 - 2º, 41011 Sevilla, España - support@thundergryph.com
© 2022 ThunderGryph Games, All rights reserved.