DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 1
2-5 15+ 120'
Deluxe Edition
11 brown wooden cubes, 
“The Politicians”
7 blue wooden cubes
“The Noblemen”
20 pink wooden cubes 
“The Abbesses”
11 turquoise wooden cubes 
“The Scribes"
1 turn marker (purple)
100 wooden discs 
(20 for each of the 5 colors)
5 Merchant meeples
5 Friar meeples
 
5 Cardinal meeples
6 action markers
11 Event tiles
5 Papal Event tiles
5 Canticle of the Sun tiles
5 Merchant tiles
5 Friar tiles
5 Cardinal tiles
10 Papal Library tiles
56 Manuscript tiles 
5 player screens
5 game player aids
1 rulebook
1 game board
1 manuscript board
1 cloth bag
33 metal coins 
(10x5 value, 18x10 value, 5x50 value)
GAME CONTENT
INTRODUCTION 
Italy, late Middle Ages. The fabric merchants need to write down their contracts in a language that everyone can understand and 
the literates are looking for an alternative to the elite of the traditional Latin language. So, the Volgare, the language spoken by the 
common people, taken from the dialects spoken in the various Italian regions, starts to gain relevance.
During this period, Francesco D’Assisi writes his famous Canticle of the Sun and Dante writes the Divine Comedy 
– both written in Volgare.
The players will have to do their part in the creation of this new language! But who will provide them the proper knowledge to under-
stand the manuscripts in the different dialects? Who will succeed to uncover the secrets of the books inside the Papal Library? Who will 
embrace the religious life and who will remain a merchant? Some players will become a famous banker, others will climb the church’s 
hierarchy to be the next Pope! But in the end, who will be the most appreciated and respected for his status and his culture?

2 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
AIM OF THE GAME
The aim of the game is to obtain the most victory points, 
also called Volgare Points or simply VP. The players will 
gain VP from reading manuscripts, looking for important 
documents like the Canticle of the Sun or the The Riddle 
from Verona all while improving their social status.
Moreover, VP can be earned with money and through the 
support of Politicians, Noblemen, Abbesses, and from the 
Scribes.
THE GAME BOARD
The game board shows the map of Italy and some action 
tracks and action spaces.
The map is divided into various zones by colors: each zone 
has a corresponding color that represents the spoken dia-
lect (blue for the D’Oil language, yellow for Latin, pink 
for the Fiorentino, green for the Siciliano, and orange for 
the D’Oc language). The white zones do not have a corre-
sponding dialect (neutral zones). 
The map of Italy also shows: 
The cities. Some cities show 1 or 2 icons 
 
 
with a value. The book value is the city's cultural 
value, while the coin value is the economic value. 
Some cities also have an anchor icon 
, which 
means that the city has a Harbor. Five cities have no 
economic or cultural values and show a squared box 
(Canticle box): they are the Franciscan cities (Celano, 
Gubbio, Cortona, Assisi, Urbino), where it is possible 
to look for the Canticle of the Sun (see later).
2 Cathedrals (Milano and Brindisi).
2 Convents in neutral zones.
3 Abbeys in neutral zones.
The starting Cities from where the players begin the 
game: Catania, Taranto, Ancona, Torino, and Vicenza, 
in neutral zones (white).
11 spaces where Event tiles are placed (Event boxes).
GAME PREPARATION
Place the board in the center of the table.
Place the Event Tiles on the spaces of the Event track. 
Each tile has a number: place the number 10 tile (Stupor 
Mundi) on the tenth space of the track. Shuffle the other 
ten tiles, pick one and place it face up in the first space of 
the Event track. Place the others, also face up, in numerical 
order starting from the tile in the first space. After the Event 
Tile number 9 is placed, place number 11, then restart from 
the Event Tile number 1 in the next free space.
Therefore there will be 11 Event Tiles, one for each of the 
first 11 game turns.
Knowledge track
Cube 
Indovinello (Riddle from Verona track)
Corriere (Messenger track)
Biblioteca (Papal Library track)
Badesse (Abbesses action space)
Politici (Politicians action space)
Copisti (Scribes action space)
Nobiltà (Noblemen action space)
Riposo
(Rest 
track)
Manoscritto
(Manuscripts
action space)
Cantico (Canticle of the Sun track)
Oriente 
(Orient track)
Salterio (Psalter action space)
Event
box
Commercio (Small Business action space)
Cammino (Movement action space)
Abbey
Convent
Event 
Player 
Order 
Cost in action 
points (1 or 4 
actions)
Effect (gain 1 or 
2 brown cubes)
Action Space Example
30/60
Politici
1/2
I/4
Additional 
cost (30 or 
60 Ducati)
Icon
Place here your 
action marker(s)
Starting city
Cathedral
Canticle box

DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 3
For example, if the tile in space 1 is the number 2 "Mercis", 
then in space 2 you place the event tile number 3, in space 3 the 
event tile number 4 and so on. 
Shuffle the 5 Papal Event tiles and place them randomly 
and face-down on the last 5 spaces of the Event track. 
Put the number of Cubes shown in the below table into 
the cloth bag.
number 
of players
cubes 
in the bag
cubes
per turn 
Draw the number of cubes shown in the above table from 
the bag and place them on the board on the Cube track 
spaces of the first 7 game turns. 
Example: with 3 players, draw and place 5 cubes in each of the 
first 7 turns. The bag should be empty once you have done this.
The cubes represent Politicians (brown), Noblemen 
(blue), Abbesses (pink) and Scribes (turquoise) that will 
be available during each game turn.
Shuffle the Canticle tiles and place them randomly face up 
near each Franciscan city in the proper gray box (Cortona, 
Celano, Gubbio, Urbino, Assisi). They determine the game 
turns on which the 5 cities of the Canticle will be active.
Example: Franciscan city Gubbio will be active during the turn 
2, after which Cortona will be available in turn 6. 
With 5 players, separate the Manuscript tiles according to 
the numbers on them. In 4 players remove 5 Manuscripts 
of the 2nd level (1 per each color); in 3 players remove 
also 5 Manuscripts of the 1st level (1 per each color); in 2 
players remove also 5 Manuscripts of the 3rd level (1 per 
each color). 
Then shuffle each of the four decks and place them face 
down in the Manuscrip's Display Board. From each deck 
draw a number of Manuscript tiles equal to the number of 
players in 2 or 3 players, or equal to the number of players 
minus one in 4 or 5 players and place them next to their 
according deck faceup. 
 
Example: the Manuscript distribution in a 4 player game.
The Manuscript tile, Lingua Volgare with value 8, is tempo-
rarily placed face up to the side of the board.
Shuffle the Papal Library tiles and place them on the 
board near the Biblioteca (Papal Library track). Place them 
face down to form a stack.
Example: The Papal Library tile stack on the board.
Place the following next to the board:
The Ducati (5, 10, and 50 Ducati) this pile represents 
the bank.
The 5 Friar tiles and the 5 Cardinal tiles face up in 
two rows.

4 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
START OF THE GAME
Each player chooses a color and takes his meeples (Mer-
chant, Friar, Cardinal), his 20 discs, a screen, a player aid 
and 10 Ducati. Then each player receives a random Mer-
chant tile. That tile simply identifies that a player is a Mer-
chant: at the start of the game all players are Merchants. 
The character meeple identifies the current position of the 
player on the map. The player's discs are used as markers 
on the various tracks and to mark where the player has 
received a cultural and/or economic bonus from a city 
(refer to the City Bonus in the "Free Actions" section for 
details).
The player order is chosen randomly and marked on the 
board using the player's discs on the Player order track. 
In reverse player order, each player chooses a starting city 
between Catania, Taranto, Ancona, Torino, and Vicenza 
and places his Merchant meeple there. No two players can 
start on the same city. 
Example: Yellow player chooses to start on Torino.
Players use their screens to hide all their cubes and tiles, 
while player's Ducati, and turquoise cubes not yet convert-
ed, are known to everyone. 
Still in reverse order, each player places a disc on the first 
space of the Knowledge track (stacked). If more than one 
disc is on the same space on a track at any time, the one on 
the bottom of the stack is considered the most advanced.
Example: The player order is grey, yellow, red, green (the players 
put their Knowledge marker stacked in reverse order).
Then the first player takes the 5 Action markers (purple 
discs), used to define the actions selected for the player's 
game turn.
Lastly, the Turn marker is placed on the first space of the 
Event track, replacing the first Event Tile, which is placed 
on the map in it's according city.
The game can now begin.
FIRST GAME TURN
A game of De Vulgari Eloquentia lasts between 13 and 16 
turns (refer to the "End of the Game" section for details).
Each turn is divided in four phases in the following order:
1.	 Event
2.	 Charity
3.	 Player order
4.	 Actions
In the first turn, the Event, Charity, and Player order phas-
es are not performed so the players start with the Actions 
phase.
ACTIONS PHASE
During this phase, in player order, each player performs 
some actions using all his available Action points. When 
all players have played, the current turn ends.
The possible actions are:
1.	 Movement
2.	 Manuscripts
3.	 Politicians, Noblemen, Abbesses, and Scribes
4.	 Psalter
5.	 Small Business 
6.	 Riddle from Verona
7.	 Messenger
8.	 Orient
9.	 Canticle of the Sun
10.	 Papal Library
11.	 Rest
All actions can only be performed 1 time in a play-
er's turn. For example, it is not possible to do a Movement 
Action, then a Psalter Action, and again another Move-
ment Action.
The Messenger, Orient, Small Business, Papal Library, 
Psalter, Politicians, Noblemen, Abbesses, Scribes, and 
Rest actions can be performed regardless of the loca-
tion of the player's character meeple. All the other 
actions require the character meeple to be in a specific 
location.
Before or after the player has done an action, he can 
also do 1 or more Free actions (see "Free Action" sec-
tion). 
1. MOVEMENT (CAMMINO)
The player can move his character on the map by land, 
across the various places, and by sea, via the cities which 
have a harbor (
). 
By land: it's possible to move from 1 place (city, convent, 
abbey) to another adjacent one. It costs 1 action point per 
movement done.
By sea: it's possible to move from a city with a harbor to 
a city with a harbor of the same Sea (Tirreno or Adriati-
co). It costs 3 action points. Venezia, Ancona and Brindisi 
are located on the Adriatico Sea, while Palermo, Napoli, 
Cagliari, Roma and Genova are located on the Tirreno Sea.
If the player uses more than 1 action point in the Move-

ment action, he must pay 10 Ducati.
It is possible to travel via land and sea in the same turn as 
long as the player has sufficient action points and coins.
Note: Catania and the nearby Abbey are not connected by land 
and you cannot move from one to the other by land.
 
Example: Yellow player moves once. He pays 1 Action Point and 
0 Ducati.
Example: Yellow player moves by 1 land place, then by sea. He 
pays 4 Action Points and 10 Ducati.
2. MANUSCRIPTS (MANOSCRITTO)
Each player can take a maximum of 1 Manuscript tile 
during his turn. Manuscripts are placed behind the player’s 
screen. In order to take a manuscript, three things have to 
be taken into account:
1) The player’s level on the Knowledge track. A player 
can only take manuscripts which have a level of under-
standing equal to or lower than his Knowledge level. The 
number on the top of the manuscript tile shows the under-
standing level. 
Knowledge can be raised through Event tiles, receiving a 
Knowledge bonus from cities, the Psalter action, convert-
ing Scribe cubes and with some benefits of the Friars.
Example: The Green player has a Knowledge level of 2. There-
fore he can take manuscripts with a level of understanding of 
1 or 2.
2) The zone where the player is located. Each manuscript 
has a color corresponding to the zone colors (spoken 
dialects) on the map. In order to take a manuscript, the 
player’s character has to be in a matching zone, where that 
dialect is spoken, before or after his movement. 
Level 4 manuscripts have two colors. In order to take one 
of them, the player's character has to be in either one of the 
two colored zones.
Example: The Red player can acquire only pink manuscripts, as 
the player's character is in a pink zone.
3) The required Action points for learning. In order to 
take a manuscript tile, the player has to spend 1 action 
point per level of the manuscript. So Level 1 manuscripts 
cost 1 action, level 2 manuscripts cost 2 actions and so on, 
up to a maximum of 4 actions for a level 4 manuscript. 
Example: The level I Manuscript on the left costs 1 Action Point 
and is only available in pink zones. The level 2 Manuscript on 
the right costs 2 Action Points and is only available in blue 
zones.
As soon as all level 1 manuscripts are taken, and no more 
level 1 manuscripts can be refilled, all the other manu-
scripts move up on the track, thus decreasing their cost in 
actions (the required knowledge level does not decrease). 
So level 2 manuscripts then cost 1 action point, level 3 
manuscripts cost 2 action points and level 4 manuscripts 
cost 3 action points. The same happens when all level 2 (or 
3) manuscripts are taken and cannot be refilled: all other 
manuscripts move up on the track.
As soon as the manuscripts move up one level, the manu-
script "Lingua Volgare" (value 8) comes into play and is 
DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 5

available with a cost of 4 action points. This manuscript can 
only be taken by a player with a knowledge level of 8. For this 
manuscript only, it does not matter which zone a character is 
in, since the Volgare language is by now spoken in all of Italy. 
Example: When Level I Manuscripts are depleted, the other 
Manuscript rows move 1 step up and their cost decreases by 1 
Action Point.
3. POLITICIANS, NOBLEMEN, ABBESSES, AND 
SCRIBES (POLITICI, NOBILTÀ, BADESSE AND 
COPISTI)
In each Turn a certain number of characters (cubes) are 
available.
Politicians: The Politicians are represented 
by brown cubes and the players will try to 
acquire their support. Acquiring 1 brown 
cube costs 1 action point and 30 Ducati. 
Acquiring 2 brown cubes costs 4 action 
points and 60 Ducati. The purchased cubes 
are placed behind the player's screen. 
The player places 1 or 4 Action markers on the Politician 
Action Space on the board. The Politicians can be used in 
the following ways:
Each Politician cube has a value of 3 for the Stupor 
Mundi and for the election at the end of the game (see 
"End of the game").
To become a Cardinal it is necessary to discard a brown 
cube (or a blue cube).
Noblemen: The Noblemen are represented 
by blue cubes and the players will try to 
acquire their support. Acquiring 1 blue cube 
costs 1 action point. Acquiring 2 blue cubes 
costs 4 action points. No Ducati are spent to 
take blue cubes. 
The taken cubes are placed behind the player's screen. The 
player places 1 or 4 Action markers on the Noblemen Action 
Space. The Noblemen can be used in the following ways:
Each Nobleman cube has a value of 2 for the Stupor 
Mundi and for the election at the end of the game (see 
"End of the game").
To become a Cardinal it is necessary to discard a blue 
cube (or a brown cube).
A player who takes a Nobleman cube can choose to 
immediately discard it and receive 20 Ducati from the 
bank or 40 if the player acquires and discards 2 blue 
cubes. The discarded blue cubes are placed back on the 
board in the first space available on the Cube track, 
according to the rules of the Event Phase.
Abbesses: The Abesses are represented by 
pink cubes and the players will try to receive 
their favor. Acquiring 1 pink cube costs 1 
action point and 15 Ducati. Acquiring 2 
pink cubes costs 4 action points and 30 
Ducati. If the player is in a place with an 
Abbey, pink cubes cost no Ducati. The purchased or taken 
cubes are placed behind the player's screen. 
The player places 1 or 4 Action markers on the Abbesses 
Action Space. The Abbesses can be used in the following 
ways:
Each Abbess cube has a value of 1 for the Stupor Mun-
di and for the election at the end of the game (see 
"End of the game")
The Abbess cubes can be spent when advancing on the 
Canticle of the Sun track (see "Canticle of the Sun")
The Abbess cubes can be spent when graduating from 
the prestigious University of Bologna (see "Messen-
ger").
Scribes: The Scribes are represented by tur-
quoise cubes and the players will try to learn 
the art of writing from them. Acquiring 1 
turquoise cube costs 1 action point. Acquir-
ing 2 turquoise cubes costs 4 action points. 
No Ducati are spent to acquire turquoise 
cubes. The taken turquoise cubes are placed in front of the 
player's screen.
The player places 1 or 4 Action markers on the Scribe 
Action Space. The Scribe can be used in the following ways:
A player in an Abbey can, as a free action, take all the 
turquoise cubes in front of his screen and place them 
behind his screen. At the end of the game, each tur-
quoise cube behind the screen provides 1 VP. The 
turquoise cubes in front of the screen will not provide 
A player in an Abbey can, as a free action, convert all 
the turquoise cubes he has in front of his screen into 
knowledge. Each converted turquoise cube advances 
the player's marker 3 spaces on the Knowledge track. 
The converted cubes are placed on the Cube track, in 
the first space available according to the rules of the 
Event Phase.
You have to convert all the turquoise cubes you have 
in front of the screen into knowledge or VPs. It is not 
possible to convert part of them into knowledge and 
the remainder into VPs.
6 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA

Example: the Yellow player moves his character to an Abbey 
and decides to convert the turquoise cubes in front of his 
screen. He has 5 turquoise cubes and decides to convert 
them into knowledge by placing the cubes on the Cube 
track and advancing his marker by 15 spaces on the Knowl-
edge track. Alternatively, he could have placed the 5 cubes 
behind his screen to receive 5 VPs at the end of the game.
4. PSALTER (SALTERIO)
Regardless of their character's location, each 
player can spend 1 action point to study the 
Psalter. The player places an Action marker 
on the Psalter Action space and advances 
his marker on the Knowledge track by 3 
spaces (or 4 spaces if it's the last player on 
the Knowledge track). 
5. SMALL BUSINESS (COMMERCIO) 
Regardless of their character's location, each 
player can spend 1 action point to do some 
small business. The player places an Action 
marker on the Commercio Action space and 
receives 10 Ducati from the bank. 
6. RIDDLE FROM VERONA (INDOVINELLO) 
A player whose meeple, before or after the 
Movement, is in a blue zone (Northern 
Italy) can advance on the Riddle from 
Verona track. The player’s marker is 
advanced by a number of spaces equal to 
the number of action points spent (from 1 to 5). The play-
er places the Action markers spent on the Riddle from 
Verona Action space. Example: the Red player's character 
meeple is in Venezia (blue zone). He decides to spend 3 Action 
Points for the Riddle from Verona and advances his marker 3 
spaces on the corresponding track. Then he places 3 Action 
markers on the action space of the track to indicate 3 actions 
were spent.
At the end of the game, the player that is furthest on this 
track is the one that has discovered the precious document 
and will receive 4, 5, or 6 VPs, depending on whether his 
disc reached or passed the number 4, 5, or 6 on the track.
If two or more players occupy the same space on the track, 
the VPs go to the player whose disc is on the bottom of the 
stack. The other players will receive no VPs.
7. MESSENGER (CORRIERE) 
player can advance his disc on the Messen-
ger track a number of spaces equal to the 
action points spent (from 1 to 5). The player 
places the Action markers spent on the Mes-
senger Action space.
In order to enter the last space on the track (
), a player 
must spend 10 Ducati and 1 pink cube.
The discarded cube is placed back on the board in the first 
space available on the Cube track, according to the rules of 
the Event Phase.
The players who reaches the last space of this track (the 
space with the symbol 
) activates Bologna city for 
themselves, which is normally not available. From this 
moment on these players will be able to travel to Bolo-
gna and receive the bonus from the city gaining the 15 
Knowledge points (or 10 Knowledge points if done after 
the 7th turn). As with the other cities, a player can receive 
the cultural value of Bologna only once during the game. 
After the bonus is received, the player places one of their 
discs on Bologna.
At the end of the game the players who completed the 
Messenger track and have their disc on Bologna will also 
score 1 VP for each city from which they gained the cul-
tural bonus (the cities where they have placed their disc).
8. ORIENT (ORIENTE) 
Merchant player can advance his disc on the 
Orient track a number of spaces equal to the 
action points spent (from 1 to 5). The player 
places the spent Action markers on the Ori-
ent Action Space.
Once a player reaches the 6th space of the track 
, he 
receives 10 Ducati from each city from which he already 
received the economic bonus. It is possible for more than 
one merchant to reach the last space of the track: they will 
all get the benefit, but it's possible to complete this track 
only once per game.
At the end of the game the Merchant players who com-
pleted the Orient track will also score 1 VP for each Har-
bor city visited (the cities with a Harbor where they have 
placed their disc).
Friars and Cardinals cannot take the Orient action.
Example: the Yellow player spends 2 Actions and reaches the 
last space of the Orient track. He immediately checks the board 
and finds that he has 4 discs on cities with an economical value 
(with the 
 symbol), so he gains 40 Ducati.
9. CANTICLE OF THE SUN (CANTICO)
A player can advance his marker on the Can-
ticle track only if his meeple is on a Francis-
can city (Assisi, Gubbio, Celano, Urbino, 
Cortona) and this city is active:
Before the 14th turn, each Franciscan city is active 
and available only during specific turns. These turns 
are determined during the game preparation using the 
Canticle tiles: before the start of the game, each city 
receives a Canticle tile that is placed face up near the 
city on the board. The number on the tile shows in 
which turn the city is active and available. 
During turns 14, 15 and 16, the five Franciscan cities 
are active.
A player who is in the active Franciscan City can spend 
from 1 to 5 actions and discard 1 Abbess cube per action 
to advance 1-5 spaces on the Canticle track. The player 
DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 7

places the Action markers spent on the Canticle Action 
Space.
The discarded pink cubes are placed back on the board in 
the first space available on the Cube track according to the 
rules of the Event Phase.
 
Example: The Red player is in Gubbio city while it is active, so...
... by spending 2 Action points and 2 pink cubes he can advance 
two steps on the Canticle of the Sun track.
At the end of the game, the player furthest on the Canticle 
of the Sun track is the one who discovers this important 
document written in Volgare and receives 9 VPs. The sec-
ond furthest player receives 6 VPs. If two or more players 
are on the same space of the track, the player whose disc is 
at the bottom of the stack is considered further along, fol-
lowed by the one on top of the first, and so on.
10. PAPAL LIBRARY (BIBLIOTECA)
player can advance his marker on the Papal 
Library track by a number of spaces equal to 
the Action points spent (from 1 to 5). The 
player places the Action markers spent on 
the Papal Library Action Space.
When a player's marker reaches a "1", "2", or "3" posi-
tion, he can, as a Free Action, draw that number of Papal 
Library tiles and remove his marker from the Papal Library 
Track.
The player takes the number of tiles from the top of the 
tile stack, and without showing them to the other play-
ers, chooses 1 of them and places it behind his screen. He 
returns the other tiles to the bottom of the stack. The num-
ber on the tile represents the number of VPs the player will 
receive at the end of the game. In addition to those VPs, 
at the end of the game the player can consider each of his 
Papal Library tiles with a 
 symbol as a manuscript of 
any color. 
Example: The Yellow player can take 2 Papal Library tiles, as 
shown on his position, and keep 1 of his choice as a free action. 
The Grey player cannot do this free action as his marker has not 
yet reached a valid position (last 3 track spaces).
On following player's turns, the player can advance again 
on the track and draw more Papal Library tiles, but a player 
cannot have more Papal Library Tiles than his Knowledge 
level: the player can exchange a new Tile with one previ-
ously kept if he so desires.
11. REST (RIPOSO)
player can advance his marker on the Rest 
track by a number of spaces equal to the 
number of actions spent (from 1 to 5). The 
player places the Action markers spent on 
the Rest Action Space.
During the Player Order phase, the player furthest on the 
Rest track will be the first player for the turn (refer to 
"Player Order Phase" Section).
8 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA

DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 9
FOLLOWING GAME TURNS
Starting with the second game turn, the players performs 
all four phases: 1) Event, 2) Charity, 3) Player order, 4) 
Actions.
1. EVENT PHASE
In this phase the following actions occur:
Move the Turn marker to the next space of the Event 
track (in the first turn the marker is placed directly on 
the first space).
Place the Event tile in the corresponding space on the 
map, next to the city shown on the tile.
Move any cubes not acquired in the previous turn 
to the first available place on the Cube track (the 8th 
space then the 9th and so on), keeping in mind that 
each space can have a maximum of 4-5-6-7 cubes 
(depending on the number of players 2-3-4-5), and 
the cubes have to be placed in the following order: first 
the Politicians (brown), then the Noblemen (blue), 
then the Abbesses (pink), and finally the Scribes (tur-
quoise). Any cubes that exceed the limit are placed on 
the following turn space on the Cube track. The same 
rules apply when returning cubes that have been used 
or discarded during player Actions.
Refill any empty Manuscript tiles spaces if any were 
taken in the previous turn. Check that there are as 
many as before.
Example: The first turn has finished and the Event Phase takes 
place.
Move the Turn marker to the second Event space. Place the next 
Event tile, in this case the number 3 “Notaro Giacomo” near 
Palermo. 
A pink cube is left over from the previous turn: The first avail-
able turn space is the 8th, as previous turn spaces already have 
5 cubes, which is the limit in a 3 player game, therefore it will 
be moved to the 8th space. 
2. CHARITY PHASE (UP TO 11TH TURN)
Each player with the Friar character receives a charity of 
5 Ducati and each Cardinal receives 10 Ducati from the 
wealthiest Merchant during this phase, but only if the Mer-
chant has more Ducati than the character(s) asking for 
charity. 
If there is more than one Merchant with the same number 
of Ducati, who are also the wealthiest, the Friar or Cardi-
nal will choose from whom they will receive their charity. 
The Merchant cannot refuse to provide the charity.
The Friars and Cardinals will receive their charity from the 
bank if one of these conditions is met:
a) There is no Merchant wealthier than them.
b) All players are Friars and/or Cardinals.
From the 12th turn onwards, during the Papal Events, the 
Charity phase no longer takes place. 
Note: Charity is given out in turn order, checking each Fri-
ar and Cardinal player, and who is the wealthiest Merchant 
in that moment. 
Example: this is the current player order and wealth: Yellow 
(Merchant, 25 Ducati), Red (Merchant, 20 Ducati), Black 
(Cardinal, 10 Ducati), Gray (Friar, 5 Ducati), Green (Friar, 
20 Ducati). The Charity starts with the Black player (Cardi-
nal); the wealthiest Merchant is the Yellow player as he owns 
25 Ducati and is richer than the Black Cardinal player (10 
Ducati), so the Yellow player must pay 10 Ducati. Then the 
Charity phase follows with the Gray player. Now the wealthiest 
player is the Red player with 20 Ducati, as the Yellow player 
now owns only 15 Ducati. Red player is richer than the Gray 
Friar player, so he must pay 5 Ducati to him. Finally the Charity 
phase ends with the Green Friar player. Both Merchant players 
own 15 Ducati, but the Friar is richer with 20 Ducati, so the 
Friar must take his 5 Ducati from the bank.
3. PLAYER ORDER PHASE
During this phase the player order is updated. The discs on 
the Player order track are placed in the reverse order of the 
Knowledge track. Therefore, the last player on the Knowl-
edge track will be first in turn order. If two or more discs 
are on the same space of the Knowledge track, the disc on 
the bottom of the stack is considered the most advanced 
and therefore will play after the player on top of the stack.
Then check the Rest track: if one or more discs have been 
placed on the Rest track, the player furthest along this 
track becomes the first player during this turn regardless 
of his position on the Knowledge track. Therefore:
- he places his disc in the first position of the turn order, 
and all the other discs are shifted accordingly.
- he removes his disc from the Rest track; the discs of the 
other players remain in their positions.

10 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
Example: The Green player spent 2 Action Points on the Rest 
Action, Red player spent 1 point. The Green player will be the 
first player on next Player Order, then the other players will 
follow in order as usual (in reverse of their Knowledge score). 
Red player's marker will remain on the Rest track, until it will 
be used to gain first position on a following turn, while Green's 
marker is removed.
4. ACTIONS PHASE
This phase is explained on page 4.
FREE ACTIONS
Players can do 1 Free Action per type during their turn. 
These Actions do not require the use of Action points, but 
can be done only before or after a normal player Action 
(not during the action). Many of these actions depend on 
the player's character location.
City Bonus: Some important cities have an economic 
value (with a 
 symbol) and/or a cultural value (with 
a 
 symbol). A player whose character is in such a city 
can receive Ducati from the bank equal to the economic 
value of the city and/or advance on the Knowledge track 
a number of spaces equal to the cultural value of the city. 
Each player can gain the bonuses from a city only once per 
game, to mark this players must place one of their discs on 
the circle next to the city.
 
Exception: The city of Bologna works in a different way 
(see the "Messenger" section).
The Ducati represented on the economic value of the city 
can be received only by a Merchant, while the knowledge 
can be received by all characters types (Merchant, Friar, 
Cardinal).
Example: The Red player is in Firenze. As a free action, he 
chooses to receive the City Bonus, so he adds his marker to the 
city's circle (over the gray player's marker) gaining 15 Ducati 
and 9 Knowledge points.
Event Bonus: A player whose character is in a City with 
an associated Event Tile or more than one, can gain the 
Ducati or Knowledge that the tiles provide. After gaining 
the bonus the tiles are flipped and cannot be used again 
during the game. 
The bonuses with the coin symbol 
 can be used 
only by Merchants. The Merchant receives from the 
bank the number of Ducati shown on the tile. The 
bonuses with the book symbol 
 provide knowl-
edge and can be gained by everyone: a player advances 
on the Knowledge track a number of spaces shown on 
the tile.
The Event Bonus Free Action is not related to the City 
Bonus Free Action and can be used regardless if the 
player has or has not a disc in the city. A player can 
choose to take the Event Bonus AND/OR the City 
Bonus.
The Event tile Stupor Mundi works differently (see the 
"Stupor Mundi" section).
Example: The Yellow player is in Venezia. He can do the City 
Bonus and/or Event Bonus free actions, as both are available. 
With the City Bonus he gains 15 Ducati, while with the Event 
Bonus he gains 30 Ducati. He will gain 45 Ducati if he chooses 
to gain both bonuses.
Example: The Red player is in Milano. He can do the Event 
Bonus free action, while the City Bonus free action is not avail-
able, as he has already done it in a previous turn (as shown by 
the red marker in the city circle). With the Event Bonus free 
action, he would gain 4 Knowledge points.
Abbey. A player whose character is in an 
Abbey can do two free actions (even both):
1. Pay no Ducati when acquiring pink cubes 
with the Abbess Action while in a Abbey.
2. Convert all of his turquoise cubes 
(Scribes). A player may choose to discard them to obtain 
3 Knowledge points per cube OR to put them behind his 

DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 11
screen to gain VP at the end of the game. The discarded 
turquoise cubes go back to the board and are placed in the 
first possible space according to the rules described in the 
Event Phase.
A player is not forced to receive the benefit from an Abbey; 
he can stop in that place without taking any benefits.
Convents: A player whose Merchant char-
acter is in a Convent can become a Friar. To 
do so, the player must give half of his 
Ducati to the bank, rounding up (if he has 
0, he loses 0 Ducati). Then he must choose 
one of the Friar tiles available and place it in front of him 
discarding his previous Merchant tile. He substitutes also 
his Merchant meeple with the Friar meeple. Each of the 5 
Friar tiles provides the player with some benefits (see the 
end of the rulebook).
A Friar cannot go back to the status of Merchant. He 
can continue to be a Friar up to the end of the game or 
become a Cardinal in a Cathedral.
A Friar cannot gain Ducati from Event Bonuses or City 
Bonuses. He can receive Ducati only from Charity (5 
Ducati), the Small Business Action, or from trading 
Nobleman cubes (as earlier described).
Merchants can stop in a Convent space without being 
forced to convert to a Friar. In this case, nothing happens. 
Friars and Cardinals can stop in a Convent with no effect.
Cathedrals: a player whose Friar character is 
in a Cathedral can become a Cardinal. The 
player has to pay 40 Ducati to the bank and 
has to discard a brown or blue cube from 
behind his screen. The discarded cube goes 
back to the board and is placed in the first 
possible space according to the rules described in the Event 
Phase section. 
Exception: the player that chooses to become Cardinal 
Muret has to pay 70 Ducati instead of 40.
The player must choose one of the Cardinal tiles available. 
Each of the 5 tiles provides the player with one or more 
benefits (see the end of the rulebook). Then he discards his 
Friar tile removing it from the game. Lastly he substitutes 
his Friar meeple with the Cardinal one.
A Cardinal cannot go back to being a Friar or Mer-
chant. 
A Cardinal cannot gain Ducati from Event Bonuses or 
City Bonuses. He can receive Ducati only from Char-
ity (10 Ducati), the Small Business action, or by trad-
ing Nobleman cubes (as earlier described). Friars can 
stop on a Cathedral without being forced to become 
a Cardinal.
Papal Book: If the player's marker has reached a num-
bered value on the Papal Library track, the player can take 
1 or more books from the stack. See "Papal Library" Action 
for further info.
END OF THE GAME
Starting from the twelfth turn a Papal Event tile is revealed 
during the Event Phase. 
If the flipped tile is white, nothing happens and the turn 
proceeds normally. 
If the flipped tile is red and it is the first one revealed, the 
Pope is dying, but the turn proceeds normally.
If a second red tile is revealed, the Pope is dead and the 
current turn is the last one of the game.
Example: The second red tile has been revealed on the fifteenth 
turn, so this will be the last game turn.
In this event, all players move their character to Roma, 
regardless of where they were on the map, without spend-
ing any actions.
The last turn proceeds normally with the exception that all 
the players start from Roma.
FINAL ELECTION
At the end of the game a player can be elected to a higher 
status.
Each brown cube (Politicians) that a player has behind 
his screen provides 3 votes for this election.
Each blue cube (Noblemen) that a player has behind 
his screen provides 2 votes for this election.
Each pink cube (Abbesses) that a player has behind 
his screen provides 1 vote for this election. 
Using the cube values mentioned above, players can dis-
card cubes from behind their screens to be elected and 
gain VPs:
MERCHANT
Each Merchant that discards brown, blue and/or pink 
cubes with at least a total of 7 votes, gains the status of 
Banker and receives 6 VPs. The discarded cubes are 
FRIAR
Each Friar that discards brown, blue and/or pink cubes 
with at least a total of 10 votes, gains the status of Bene-
dictine Monk and receives 11 VPs. The discarded cubes are 
CARDINAL
Each Cardinal that discards brown, blue and/or pink 
cubes with at least a total of 11 votes, gains the status of 
Camerlengo and receives 14 VPs. The discarded cubes are 
If a Cardinal discards brown, blue and/or pink cubes with 

12 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
at least a total of 17 votes, he gains the status of Pope and 
receives 22 VPs. The discarded cubes are removed from the 
game. Only one Cardinal player can become the Pope. 
If more than one player wants to discard cubes with a total 
value of at least 17, the player further on the Knowledge 
track is the next Pope. In this case, the remaining Cardinals 
can gain the status of Camerlengo by discarding brown, 
blue or pink cubes with a total value of 11.
Note: Cardinals can be elected either Camerlengo or Pope, not 
both.
VPs gained by the Monk or Camerlengo status can be add-
ed to the VPs gained from Friar or Cardinal tiles, while 
becoming Pope cancels the VPs from the Cardinal tiles.
For example, the Cardinal Lanzuisi tile gives 6 VPs if the player 
stays Cardinal or becomes Camerlengo, while it gives 0 VP if the 
player becomes Pope.
Character
Elected to
VPs
Merchant
Banker
Friar
Monk
Cardinal
Camerlengo
Cardinal
Pope
 
VOLGARE POINTS 
After the Final Election, in addition to the VPs gained for 
gaining a higher status, the following VPs are added:
Players add all their remaining cube values, and the 
player with the highest sum receives 3 VPs. The player 
further on the Knowledge track wins ties.
The turquoise cubes (Scribes) that the players have 
behind their screen provide 1 VP each.
Players with Papal Library tiles reveal them and 
receive the VPs shown on them.
If the player with the most Ducati is a Merchant, he 
gains 6 VPs. If the richest player is a Friar or a Cardi-
nal, he gains 3 VPs. The player further on the Knowl-
edge track wins ties.
The player furthest on the Riddle from Verona track 
receives 4, 5 or 6 VPs, according to the space reached 
or passed. In the case of a tie, the VPs go to the player 
whose disc is on the bottom of the stack.
The player furthest on the Canticle track receives 9 
VPs for discovering this important document written 
in Volgare. The second furthest player receives 6 VPs. If 
two or more players are on the same space of the track, 
the player whose disc is at the bottom of the stack is 
considered further along, followed by the one on top 
of the first, and so on.
Players that have completed the Messenger track and 
that have their player disc on Bologna gain 1 VP for 
each city with a cultural value visited (where they have 
their disc).
Merchant players that have completed the Orient track 
gain 1 VP for each harbor city visited (where they 
have their disc).
Players show their Manuscripts. Each manuscript 
owned provides VPs equal to the number shown on 
the Manuscript tile: each level 1 manuscript provides 1 
VP, each level 2 manuscript provides 2 VPs, each level 
3 manuscript provides 3 VPs and, each level 4 manu-
script provides 4 VPs.
The owner of the Lingua Volgare manuscript gains 8 
Any players that have manuscripts in all 5 colors gain 
5 VPs. Level 4 manuscripts have two colors, but can 
contribute only one of these not both, while any Papal 
Library tile with a 
 symbol can be considered as a 
manuscript of any color. Example: the Red player has a 
level 4 blue and pink manuscript, a level 1 pink Manu-
script, a level 1 green Manuscript, a level 1 orange Manu-
script and 1 Papal Library tile with a 
 symbol. Con-
sidering his level 4 manuscripts as blue, he is missing a 
yellow manuscript, therefore he considers his Papal Library 
tile as a yellow manuscript, gaining 5 additional VPs for 
the completed set. 
Finally some VPs are assigned to some Friars and Car-
dinals:
Friar Raffaele receives 4 VPs.
Friar Gigi loses 4 VPs.
Cardinal Lanzuisi receives 6 VPs.
Cardinal Shlasinger receives 4 VPs.
THE WINNER
The player with the most VPs is the winner and speaks Vol-
gare better than the others. In the event of a tie, the winner 
is the player furthest on the Knowledge track. If more than 
one player are on the same space on the Knowledge track, 
the winner is the player on the bottom of the stack.

DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 13
SPECIAL EVENT AND TILES 
STUPOR MUNDI EVENT
During the Event Phase of the tenth turn the Stupor Mun-
di Event tile is placed on the board near Brindisi. The Stu-
por Mundi event works differently from the other events, 
since Federico II, the Stupor Mundi, can raise the knowl-
edge level of a player.
A player who is in Brindisi can, at the end of his turn, sum-
mon the other players to Brindisi, on the condition that 
the Stupor Mundi tile has not already been used.
If that happens, at game turn end, players in the current 
player order must accept or refuse the summoning. Any 
player who refuses remains in his current location. The 
players that accepted the summons move their character to 
Brindisi, without spending any action points.
The players that accepted the summons will participate in 
an auction. The players bid using the brown, blue, and 
pink cubes that they have behind the screen: the brown 
cubes have a value of 3, the blue cubes a value of 2 and the 
pink cubes a value of 1.
The player who summoned the others has a bonus of 
2 value points and makes the first bid declaring a value 
(even just that bonus of 2). The other players (in the cur-
rent player order) can pass or raise the bid. Bluffs are not 
allowed as players must declare values corresponding to 
cubes which they really own.
The auction proceeds until all but one player have passed. 
The winner:
Takes the cubes required to pay his bid value from 
behind his screen and discards them to the first avail-
able space on the Cube track according to the rules of 
the Event Phase. 
Immediately gains 10 Knowledge points on the 
Knowledge track.
Flips the Stupor Mundi tile.
The players who lost the auction retain their cubes.
If none of the players accept the summons, the sum-
moning player wins the auction by default without 
spending any cubes!
FRIAR TILES
When a player becomes a Friar, he chooses a Friar tile that 
will represent him. Each tile provides one or more benefits.
Note: underscored symbols on Friar tiles represent effects that 
are applied at the end of the game.
Friar Mario: The player who chooses Friar 
Mario immediately gains 12 Knowledge 
Friar Michele: The player who chooses Friar 
Michele immediately gains 7 Knowledge 
In addition, the player gains a virtual pink 
cube per turn, as shown on the tile. There-
fore the player has a pink cube, in addition 
to the ones he has behind his screen, that he can use in: 
the auction for the Stupor Mundi, during the Final Elec-
tion, for the advancement in the Canticle of the Sun, to 
enter the last space of the University of Bologna, and for 
determining the player with the most cubes at the end of 
the game. The player never loses this virtual pink cube as 
long as he remains Friar Michele.
Example: the player who has the Friar Michele tile chooses to 
move 2 spaces on the Canticle track. Normally he should discard 
two pink cubes but, thanks to the virtual cube, he discards one.
Friar Stefano: The player who chooses Friar 
Stefano immediately gains 7 Knowledge 
points on the Knowledge track. In addition, 
the player gains a virtual blue cube per turn, 
in addition to the ones he has behind his 
screen, that he can use in: the auction for the 
Stupor Mundi, during the Final Election and 
for determining the player with the most cubes at the end of 
the game. Moreover, he can use this blue cube if and when 
he chooses to become a Cardinal. The player can never use 
this virtual cube to receive the 20 Ducati from the Bank. The 
player never loses this virtual blue cube as long as he remains 
Friar Stefano.
Friar Gigi: the player who chooses Friar 
Gigi will always, up to the 11th turn, receive 
10 Ducati instead of 5 during the Charity 
Phase, whether he receives the money from 
another player or from the bank. At the end 
of the game the player that has Friar Gigi 
loses 4 VPs.
Friar Raffaele: the player who chooses Friar 
Raffaele immediately gains 7 Knowledge 
The player does not have to pay any Ducati 
to move his character pawn. At the end of 
the game the player that has Friar Raffaele 
gains 4 VPs.
CARDINAL TILES
When a player becomes a Cardinal, he chooses a Cardinal 
tile that will represent him. Each tile provides one or more 
benefits. Note: underscored symbols on Cardinal tiles represent 
effects that are applied at the end of the game.
Cardinal Balestreri: the player who choos-
es Cardinal Balestreri immediately gains 4 
Knowledge points on the Knowledge track. 
In addition, the player always has a virtual 
brown cube per turn, in addition to the ones 
he has behind his screen, that he can use in: 
the auction for the Stupor Mundi, during 
the Final Election, and for determining the player with the 
most cubes at the end of the game. The player never loses 
this virtual brown cube.
Cardinal Lanzuisi: at the end of the game 
the player with Cardinal Lanzuisi gains 6 

14 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
Cardinal Muret: The player who chooses 
Cardinal Muret has to pay the bank 70 
Ducati instead of 40. Starting from the turn 
in which the player chooses this Cardinal 
tile he will always have 6 actions per turn 
instead of 5. A sixth Action marker is pro-
vided for this.
Cardinal Shlasinger: At the end of the 
game, the player with Cardinal Shlasinger 
gains 4 VPs. In addition, the player is an 
inquisitor and has the power to move the 
disc of one other player 6 spaces back on the 
Knowledge track. This power can be used 
only once per game as Free Action. Note: the 
player targeted by Cardinal Shlasinger does not lose 
Manuscript(s) due to the lack of knowledge.
Cardinal Zazza: The player who chooses 
Cardinal Zazza immediately takes back the 
40 Ducati he has just spent to become a Car-
dinal.
Since Cardinal Zazza is a close friend of the 
keeper of the Papal Library he can look at 
one additional Papal Library tile during the 
Papal Library Action, but, as usual, he may keep only one 
tile.
CREDITS
Author: Mario Papini
Illustrations: Lamberto Azzariti, Guido Favaro, 
Eva Villa, Fabio Porfidia
Project: Michele Quondam
Special thanks to all crowdfunding campaign participants which 
made this game a reality. 
Special thank you to Federico Sonzogni, Alessandro Delle Cese, 
Fabrizio Pedata, Sergio Baluci and to all the playtesters of 2019 
game edition. 
Thank you to the crowdfunding campaign supporters Feli-
pe Suarez Perandones, Joao Cury, Matteo Chiarion, Marco 
D'Annibale, and Alfredo Nicolosi.

DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA | 15
RITMO BELLUNESE
Contents: 16 cards (3 Ritmo Bellunese cards per 5 colors, 
1 Action Space card).
the city of Venezia. Shuffle the 15 Ritmo Bellunese cards and 
place them facedown adjacent to the Action Space card.
VENEZIA ACTION
A player whose meeple is on the city of Venezia can do this 
action 1 time per turn. 
The player places 1 Action marker (or 4 Action markers) 
on the Action Space card and draws 2 cards and keeps 1 (or 
draws 4 cards and keeps 2). Place the acquired card face up 
in front of you and visible to other players, then secretly 
discard facedown the other card(s) under the Ritmo Bel-
lunese deck.
A Player may trade his Ritmo Bellunese cards during his turn 
as Free action with other players. It's possible to exchange 
them for coins, Papal Books, cubes, manuscripts or for other 
expansion cards. For Papal Books, manuscripts, and cards 
the limit defined by the Knowledge value is always valid.
On following turns, the player can acquire more cards, 
but a player cannot have more Ritmo Bellunese cards than 
his Knowledge level (or more than 4 cards). The player 
A player, as a free action during his turn, can return 2 or 3 
cards with different colors to the bottom of the deck gain-
ing 3 or 7 Knowledge points respectively.
At the end of the game, the player with more cards of the 
same color gains 1 VP for each step made on the Indo-
vinello (Riddle from Verona track). If 2 or more players 
are tied for the most cards of the same color, the player 
with the most cards of another color wins the tie, if a tie 
still occurs then the player furthest on the Knowledge track 
wins the tie.
A player may gain VPs from the Ritmo Bellunese cards or 
the Indovinello track, not both. If the player furthest on 
the Indovinello track chooses to gain VPs from the Ritmo 
Bellunese cards, he removes his marker from the track, so 
the second player furthest is now in the lead.
 
Example: At the end of the game, the Red player has 2 Blue 
cards and 1 Pink card while the Yellow player has 2 Pink cards, 
therefore Red player wins the tie. He chooses to gain VPs from 
the expansion gaining 7 VPs, and he removes his marker from 
the Indovinello track since he is the furthest on it. This causes 
the Green player to win the Indovinello track.
PLACITI DI CAPUA 
& GUAITA DI TRAVALE
Contents: 13 cards (5 Placiti cards, 1 Guaita card, 6 White 
cards, 1 Action Space card).
the pink zone (Tuscany). Shuffle the 10 Placiti di Capua 
and Guaita di Travale cards and place them facedown adja-
cent to the Action Space card.
TUSCANY ACTION
A player whose meeple is in a pink city can do this action 
1 time per turn. 
The player places 1 Action marker (or 4 Action markers) 
on the Action Space card and draws 2 cards and keeps 1 
(or draws 4 cards and keeps 2). Keep the selected card in 
your hand without showing it to other players. Secretly 
discard facedown the other card(s) under the Placiti di 
Capua deck. 
On following turns, the player can acquire more cards, 
but a player cannot have more Placiti di Capua cards than 
his Knowledge level (or more than 4 cards). The player 
A player, as a free action during his turn, can return the 
"Guaita di Travale" card and gain 30 Ducati or 6 Knowl-
edge points. If he does this, he places the card in the deck 
and shuffles it.
During your turn, as a Free Action, you can return 1 or 
more white cards to the bottom of the deck, to gain 1 
Knowledge point for each returned card.
At the end of the game, the player with the most Placiti di 
Capua cards gains 2 VPs for each step made on the Can-
tico track. In case of a tie, the player with more white cards 
wins the tie. If a further tie occurs, the player further on the 
Knowledge track wins the tie.
A player may gain VPs from the Placiti di Capua cards or 
the Cantico track, not both. If the player in the first or 
second position on the track chooses to gain VPs from the 
Placiti di Capua cards, he removes his marker from the 
track.
Example: At the end of the game, the Yellow player has 2 Placiti 
di Capua cards and 1 white card while the Red player has 2 
Placiti di Capua cards, therefore Yellow player wins the tie. He 
chooses to gain VPs from the expansion gaining 14 VPs being 
on the 7th step, and removes his marker from the Cantico track. 
This causes the Red player to win the Cantico track.
EXPANSIONS & NEW TILES
The following expansions and tiles are available to backers of the crowdfunding campaign of De Vulgari Eloquentia Deluxe 
as additional content. If you would like to have them, contact your local store.

16 | DE VULGARI ELOQUENTIA
POETI SCUOLA SICILIANA 
& ARNAULT DANIEL
Contents: 17 cards (6 Scuola Siciliana cards, 10 Arnault 
Daniel cards, 1 Action Space card).
the city of Cagliari. Shuffle the 10 Arnault Daniel cards (the 
cards with Cagliari map on the back) and place them face-
down adjacent to the Action Space card.
Then shuffle the 6 Scuola Siciliana cards (the cards with 
Brindisi map on the back) and place them facedown near 
the city of Brindisi.
BRINDISI ACTION
All players that are on the city of Brindisi during the acti-
vation of the Stupor Mundi Event, draw 1 card from the 
Scuola Siciliana deck keeping it in their hand without 
showing it to other players. 
CAGLIARI ACTION
A player whose meeple is on the city of Cagliari and owns 
a Scuola Siciliana card can do this action 1 time per turn. 
The player places 1 Action marker (or 4 Action markers) on 
the Action Space card and draws 2 cards and keeps 1 (or 
draws 4 cards and keeps 2). Keep the selected card in your 
hand without showing it to other players. Secretly discard 
facedown the other card under the Arnault Daniel deck. 
On following turns, the player can acquire more cards, but 
a player cannot have more Scuola Siciliana and Arnault 
Daniel cards as a total, than his Knowledge level (or more 
than 4 cards). The player can exchange a new card with 
one previously kept if he so desires.
At the end of the game each player gains VPs equal to the 
sum of all their Scuola Siciliana and Arnault Daniel cards 
but only if the player has cards from both decks.
Example: It is the end of the game, the Yellow player has a 
Scuola Siciliana card worth 3 VPs and an Arnault Daniel card 
worth 2 VPs. Red player has a Scuola Siciliana card for 5 VPs. 
The Yellow player gains 5 VPs (3+2), while Red player gains 0 
VPs since he didn't acquire any Arnault Daniel cards.
GLOSSARIO DI MONZA
Contents: 11 cards (10 Glossario di Monza cards, 1 Action 
Space card).
the city of Milano. Shuffle the 10 Glossario cards and place 
them facedown adjacent to the Action Space card.
MILANO ACTION
A player whose meeple is on the city of Milano can do 
this action 1 time per turn. 
The player places 1 to 3 Action markers on the Action 
Space card and acquires 1 to 3 cards from the deck. Place 
the acquired card/s facedown in front of you and visible to 
other players.
On following turns, a player can acquire more cards and 
A player can have maximum 1 Glossario di Monza card per 
different expansion card owned, not including the Glossa-
rio di Monza expansion (therefore maximum 3). 
A player cannot have more Glossario di Monza cards than 
his Knowledge level.
At the end of the game, each player gains VPs equal to the 
total points shown on his Glossario di Monza cards.
Example: The Yellow player is on Milano, he has acquired a 
card from all 3 other expansions, but his Knowledge level is 2, 
therefore he can only draw 2 cards from the Glossario deck with 
2 APs. The Yellow player draws 2 cards and finds a 3 VPs card 
and a 1 VP card. At the end of the game the Yellow player gains 
4 VPs (3+1).
TILES
Friar Alessandro. When the player draws 
cards thanks to an Action spent, he can draw 
1 additional card. The number of cards 
which the player can keep remains the same.
Cardinal Sonzogni. When the player draws 
cards thanks to an Action spent, he can draw 
1 additional card and keep 1 additional card 
from those drawn (if his Knowledge value 
allows it).
Add this tile to other Papal Library tiles dur-
ing the Setup.
2019 All rights reserved