✬ THE GOAL ✬
It’s always best to start your journey by knowing where 
you’re going…
T e players send their cowboys into the town of Deadwood to 
“annex” the businesses and collect as much money as they can. 
T e player with the most cash at the end of the game is the winner.
✬ GAME COMPONENTS ✬
Just because it’s a desert, don’t mean it’s empty…
1 Game board
T e game board shows the town of Deadwood. It is 
divided into a number of square . Each plot can 
hold one . Silhouettes and stars in the top 
three rows show where buildings are placed at the start 
of the game. T e row with red plots shows all possible 
plots where the Train Station can be built. T e bottom 
four rows show all possible routes for the railroad.
In the lower corners 
of the board, away 
from the square 
plots, 
there 
are 
two special areas: 
on the right is 
the 
A 
M; on the left is 
B H.
45 Cowboy tokens
Each  has nine . 
Cowboys come in three varieties:
☞ Greenhorns have a strength of 1
☞ Gunslingers have a strength of 2
☞ Trail Bosses have a strength of 3
T e players use their cowboys to  
buildings in town and to ﬁ ght other cowboys in 
. Each cowboy has a , 
which determines how many dice 
he can roll during a shootout.
20 Cartridge Tokens
C are used by cowboys to roll one 
extra die during a shootout.
10 Pony tokens
P are used when a cowboy wants to 
 away from a shootout.
29 Wanted poster Tokens
W  are used to track how badly each 
gang is wanted by the authorities. While collecting 
wanted posters may be a source of pride for many 
cowboys, the players must be careful: at the end of 
the game, each player has to pay a ﬁ ne for all wanted 
posters he has collected.
Once Upon a Time in the West…
L
ost in the badlands of South Dakota, the shanty-town of Deadwood is the last place you would think is worth ﬁ ghting over. 
But now the railroad is headed that way, and with the iron rails comes the prospect of cold, hard cash. T e local cowboys 
will take advantage, threatening the townsfolk and killing oﬀ their rivals as they ﬁ ght to control the town. T ey have to act 
quickly, before the Cavalry comes to establish law and order. If there is too much crime, the Cavalry will come sooner, so the 
scoﬄ aws need a better approach than the old high-noon shootout. One thing is certain: when the railroad ﬁ nally arrives, the 
richest man in Deadwood will control everything.
I
y
Six-shot Alfie
Redhand Jack

4 Railroad Tiles
T e   indicate which 
route the railroad takes into town. 
When all four railroad tiles are on the 
board, the Train Station can be built.
1 Sheriff Token
T e Sheriﬀ is none too pleased about the arrival of gangs in “his” 
town. He knows that he doesn’t have enough men to stop the gangs 
from taking over the town, but he is famous for his quick-draw and 
there’s not a single cowboy this side of the Pecos who will cross 
him. No shootouts can occur at any building that is protected by 
the Sheriﬀ token.
8 Dice
T e dice are used to resolve shootouts during the game.
50 Money tokens
Money tokens are included in the game: 
15 x $1, 15 x $2, and 20 x $5
Players are free to make change 
with the supply at any time.
26 Building Tiles
T e buildings represent the honest folk of Deadwood and their businesses. 
Buildings are placed on open plots on the board. During the game, players 
will send their cowboys to ﬁ ght over and annex these buildings. Each 
building tile has either an “X” or a number (between 1 and 3) on the back 
that represents which tile stack it belongs to.
✬ STARTING A GAME ✬
You have to start at the beginning, I always say…
. Place the game board in the middle of the table.
. Sort the building tiles into stacks by the symbol on the 
back. Place the Town Hall, Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce, and Church tiles 
on the matching plots in the top row.
 . Individually shuﬄ e each tile stack and place them near the board.
 . Draw four random tiles from the ﬁ rst building stack (“1”) and shuﬄ e 
them with the Saloon tile marked with an “X.” Place these tiles randomly 
on the ﬁ ve plots that are marked with a star.
 . Set the four railroad tiles and the Train Station tile together near the three 
tile stacks.
 . Place the Sheriﬀ token on the intersection of the Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce and the 
two tiles below it.
. Take ﬁ ve wanted posters per player and place them near the board. T is is 
the C P. Return the rest of the wanted posters to the box.
 . Form a supply with the money tokens, cartridge tokens, pony tokens, and 
dice near the board.
 . Give each player a set of cowboys in his chosen color, ﬁ ve dollars worth of 
money tokens, one cartridge token, and one pony token. Each player takes 
one cowboy of each type (strength 1, 2, and 3) and places them faceup in 
front of him. T is is called his R. T e rest of his cowboys are added 
to the supply. Players can always see everything that is in another player’s 
Ranch, which includes cash on hand, cowboys, cartridges, ponies, and 
wanted posters.
 . Each player rolls a die: the highest roller becomes the starting player 
and takes his turn ﬁ rst.
T
Elmer Feud

SETUP
T is diagram shows setup for a three-player game:
R t Cross
Cross
Rvt. C
Player 2’s 
Player 3’s 
Player 1’s 
✬ THE GAME TURN ✬
Even outlaws gotta play “accordin’ to Hoyle…”
On his turn, a player must perform one of two actions. 
T ese actions are explained in detail on page 5 and are 
summarized here:
Head Back to the Ranch – Remove one or more cowboys 
from the board and return them to his Ranch; or
Hit the Town – Take one cowboy from his Ranch and place it at a building 
on the board.
A player cannot choose to pass on his turn. He must perform one of these two 
actions. Once the player has completed his chosen action, his turn is over and 
the player to his left begins his turn.
T e players continue to take turns, in order, until one of three events causes 
the end of the game: the Train Station is placed on the board, there are no 
wanted posters left in the Crime Pool, or any player has no cowboys alive (see 
“End of the Game” on page 10).
Tile Stacks
crime pool
Money Tokens
Railroad
tiles
cartridge 
pony 
cowboy 
dice
the supply

✬ HEAD BACK TO THE RANCH ✬
T e ranch is the only place a gang can plot in peace...
On his turn, a player can choose this action to remove one 
or more of his cowboys from the board and return them 
to his Ranch.. T ese cowboys can be removed from any 
building(s), and/or from the Abandoned Mine, in any 
combination. A player cannot remove “zero” cowboys.
✬ HIT THE TOWN ✬
Every cowpoke is eager for a night on the town…
On his turn, a player can choose this action to take one 
(and only one) of the cowboys from his Ranch and 
place it at any building on the board. Cowboys cannot 
be placed at the Abandoned Mine, an open plot, or a 
railroad tile. Also, a player cannot place a cowboy on 
a building that is already occupied by one of his own 
cowboys.
If another player’s cowboy already occupies the building, there is a 
shootout to see who controls the building. If the building is empty, there is 
no shootout.
If the cowboy is alone at a building (i.e., he survived a shootout or no cowboys 
were there before he arrived), he can annex the building (see pages 6–9).
Shootouts
T e buildings in Deadwood just ain’t big enough for the 
two of us…
T ere can only be one cowboy on each building tile at any 
time (exception: see “Church” on page 6),
If a player places his cowboy at the same building as 
another player’s cowboy, they have a shootout. To resolve 
a shootout, follow these steps: 
. T e attacker (the player who just arrived at the building) must take one 
wanted poster from the Crime Pool and place it faceup in his Ranch.
. T e defender (the player who was already at the building) can choose to 
skedaddle. To do so, he must discard one pony token to the supply and 
move his cowboy to the Abandoned Mine. If he skedaddles, the shootout 
is over.
. If the defender stays to ﬁ ght, the attacker must announce if he is going to 
use a cartridge. A player many only use one cartridge in each ﬁ ght. Used 
cartridges are returned to the supply.
. T e defender then announces if he is going to use a cartridge (following 
the restrictions above).
. Now both players take the number of dice equal to the strength of his 
cowboy. T e cowboy’s strength is determined by what type of cowboy he 
happens to be:
☞ A Greenhorn takes one die.
☞ A Gunslinger takes two dice.
☞ A Trail Boss takes three dice.
. If a player used a cartridge, he takes one additional die.
. Compare the total number of dice each player holds. T e player with 
the most dice rolls as many dice as the diﬀ erence between their two 
totals. See “Nice Shootin’” below for the results of the dice roll.
Redhand Jack has three dice 
and Bobby the Kid has only one. 
Redhand Jack rolls two of his dice.
. If the other cowboy is not killed, both players now hold the same number 
of dice. T ey both roll one die each at the same time, and determine the 
result. T ey continue rolling one die each until one of the two cowboys is 
killed, or they both run out of dice.
. Depending on the result, do the following:
☞ If the defender is killed and the attacker survives, or if the defender 
skedaddled, then the attacker remains at the building and may annex it.
☞ If both cowboys survive, the attacker must ﬂ ee to the Abandoned 
Mine (he does not discard a pony token) and the defender keeps control 
of the building.
☞ If both cowboys are killed, then no one controls the building.
Nice Shootin’
If any die shows a 
 , the other cowboy involved in the shootout is 
killed. Place the dead cowboy on Boot Hill.
If any die shows a 
 or a 
 , the other cowboy involved in the 
shootout is wounded. Place the die on top of the wounded cowboy 
to mark that he is wounded. T e ﬁ rst wound a cowboy suﬀ ers has 
no eﬀ ect. T e second wound kills him (place him on Boot Hill). 
Note: T ere is no way to revive a cowboy after he has been killed!
After the shootout, all wounded cowboys are healed by removing 
the die that was placed on them.
The General
Sally Read
Dick Garcia
T
Bobby the Kid

Jim Teaspoon
Wild Bill Hancock really wants to take control of the Bank (who can 
blame him?). Sadly, it is already owned by Six-shot Alﬁ e. Wild Bill knows 
that he needs to send in some serious muscle, so he places a Trail Boss 
(strength 3) on the Bank that’s being defended by Alﬁ e’s Gunslinger 
(strength 2) and takes a wanted token from the Crime Pool. Alﬁ e refuses 
to skedaddle (probably because he doesn’t have any ponies…), so they’re 
gonna ﬁ ght it out:
Wild Bill wants an extra edge, so he uses a cartridge and returns it to the 
supply. He can only use one cartridge in the shootout.
Alﬁ e would love to use a cartridge to help him out, but he decides it’s 
better to save his last cartridge for later.
T e ﬁ nal strength of the two cowboys is:
Wild Bill Hancock: 4 
Six-shot Alﬁ e: 2
Since Bill has two more dice than his opponent, he now rolls two dice 
(to make their totals equal). He gets a 
 and a 
 . Alﬁ e’s cowboy is 
wounded! One more wound will kill him.
T e cowboys each have two dice now, so they both roll one die. 
Both dice come up 
 ! T at means that both cowboys are wounded. Since 
Alﬁ e’s cowboy was already wounded, he is killed and placed on Boot Hill. 
Bill’s cowboy is also wounded, but since it’s the end of the shootout, all 
wounds are healed!
Since Alﬁ e’s cowboy was killed, Bill now annexes the Bank to receive $5 
and another wanted token. 
✬ THE SHERIFF ✬
Some days, you need a little more than a tin star to 
make it past breakfast…
T e Sheriﬀ is sworn to protect the innocent townsfolk 
of Deadwood. No cowboy is foolish enough to cross 
paths with him. 
T e Sheriﬀ token is always placed on the 
intersection of three plots (empty or with a building). All 
three plots touched by the Sheriﬀ token are safe. No 
player can ever attack another player’s cowboy in any building that 
is protected by the Sheriﬀ (i.e., a player cannot place a cowboy on an 
occupied building that is protected by the Sheriﬀ ).
If a player places a cowboy on a building that is protected by the 
Sheriﬀ , he must give $1 to the player who controls the Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce (if there 
is a cowboy there).
A player can move the Sheriﬀ token by annexing the Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce.
✬ THE BUILDINGS ✬
Oh, give me a home, where the buﬀ alo roam…
T e building tiles represent the businesses and honest 
folk who make a living in Deadwood. Building tiles are 
placed on open plots on the board. T e players compete 
to control buildings during the game.
Each type of building has a unique ability. In order to use this ability, 
a player must annex the building by placing one of his cowboys there (and 
defeating any defending cowboy in a shootout). Most buildings only have a single 
ability that is used immediately after taking control. T is ability is listed after 
“annex” in the following descriptions.
Some buildings also have a “control” ability that oﬀ ers a bonus to the player 
who has a cowboy there when another event takes place (i.e., when the Train 
Station is built, every time a cowboy is killed, etc.). If this cowboy leaves the 
building for any reason, the player loses the “control” bonus.
Before the game, the building tiles are sorted into four stacks by the symbol on 
the back. All buildings and their abilities are listed below.
Starting Buildings (Marked with a “X”): 
Church
☞ A: When a player annexes the Church, 
he returns one of his wanted posters to the box.
☞ S: T ere can never be a shootout at the 
Church! All players can annex the Church, even while 
other players’ cowboys are at the Church. No player 
can ever have more than one cowboy at the Church.
Bill Hancock
Wild B

Saloon
☞ A: When a player annexes the Saloon, 
he may hire one cowboy. A Greenhorn is free, a 
Gunslinger costs $1, and a Trail Boss costs $3. T e 
player chooses one cowboy of his color from the 
supply, pays its hiring cost to the supply, and places 
the new cowboy at the Abandoned Mine.
Sheriff’s Office
Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce, he moves the Sheriﬀ token to any 
intersection of three plots on the board. At least 
one of the plots that touches this intersection 
must have a building tile.
☞ C: When another player places 
a cowboy on a building that is protected by the 
Sheriﬀ , that player must pay $1 to the player who 
controls the Sheriﬀ ’s Oﬃ ce.
Town Hall
☞ A: When a player annexes the Town 
Hall, he must perform these three actions in order:
. Return one of his wanted posters to the box.
 . Place one railroad tile (see “T e Railroad” on 
page 9).
. Place new buildings:
T e player draws the top building tile from each of the three stacks (if a stack 
is empty, then one less tile is drawn). Building tiles can only be placed on 
open plots that are adjacent to a building tile that is already on the board. If 
there are no open plots available, then the tile is returned to the bottom of 
its stack.
First Building Stack (Marked with a “1”): 
Gunsmith
Gunsmith, he takes $1 and two cartridges from 
the supply.
Bank
☞ A: When a player annexes the Bank, he 
takes $5 from the supply and one wanted poster 
from the Crime Pool.
Blacksmith
☞ A: When a player annexes the Blacksmith, 
he takes $1 and one pony from the supply.
Casino
☞ A: When a player annexes the Casino, 
he takes $1 from any other player of his choice 
who has money.
General Store
☞ A: When a player annexes the General 
Store, he takes $1 from the supply. T en he moves one 
of his other cowboys that is already at a building (not 
the one at the General Store) to a diﬀ erent building. T is 
move may trigger a shootout and does allow the player 
to annex this building if his cowboy is alone.
1 Sly Sam sends his ﬁ rst cowboy to the General Store. He earns $1 and
2 decides to move his second cowboy from the Courthouse to the Bank. 
T is cowboy can then annex the bank.

Hotel
☞ A: When a player annexes the Hotel, 
he takes $2 from the supply.
☞ C: Each time a railroad tile is 
placed on the board, this player receives $2 from 
the supply. When the Train Station is placed on the 
board, this player receives $4 from the supply.
Laundry
Laundry, he takes $1 from the supply.
☞ C: If a player annexes the Church 
while he controls the Laundry, he may return two 
of his wanted posters to the box instead of one. If 
the player controls both Laundry buildings when 
he places a cowboy at the Church, he may return 
three of his wanted posters to the box.
☞ S: When a player annexes the General Store and moves a 
cowboy from the Laundry to the Church, he may discard two wanted posters 
instead of one. If the player controls both Laundry buildings. When his 
cowboy moves from the Laundry to the Church, he may return three of his 
wanted posters to the box.
Stage Depot
☞ A: When a player annexes the Stage 
Depot, he takes $2 from the supply. T en he draws 
the top building tile from one of the three stacks 
and places it on an open plot that is adjacent to 
at least one other building tile that is already on 
the board.
☞ C: If the game ends before the Train Station is built, this 
player receives a $10 bonus.
Undertaker
Undertaker, he takes $1 from the supply.
☞ C: Each time a cowboy is killed, 
this player receives $1 from the supply.
☞ S: If a cowboy is killed during a 
shootout at the Undertaker, the survivor receives 
the control bonus ($1) for the cowboy that he killed.
Second Building Stack (Marked with a “2”): 
Gunsmith
T is is identical to the Gunsmith in the ﬁ rst building stack. 
Blacksmith
T is is identical to the Blacksmith in the ﬁ rst building stack.
Gold mine
☞ A: When a player annexes the Gold 
Mine, he rolls one die and consults the chart:
 
D R 
M T F S
 
1 or 2 
Nothing 
 
$1 
 
$2 
 
$3 
 
$5 
General Store
T is is identical to the General Store in the ﬁ rst building stack.
Laundry
T is is identical to the Laundry in the ﬁ rst building stack.
Saloon
T is is identical to the Saloon that begins the game in play. 

Third Building Stack (Marked with a “3”): 
Fortune Teller
☞ A: When a player annexes the Fortune 
Teller, he takes $1 from the supply. T en he may 
examine any one of the three building stacks. He 
may rearrange the building tiles in that stack in 
any order he chooses. T en he returns the stack 
facedown to the supply.
Courthouse
Courthouse, all players (including himself) must 
pay $1 to the supply for each wanted poster he 
holds. If a player cannot pay this ﬁ ne, or if he 
chooses not to, he must take one wanted poster 
from the Crime Pool (regardless of the number of 
posters that he currently has).
Grifter
☞ A: When a player annexes the Grifter, 
he takes $1 from the supply. T en he moves 
any two of his opponents’ cowboys, who are at 
a building in town or at a player’s Ranch, to the 
Abandoned Mine.
Newspaper
Newspaper, he takes $1 from the supply. T en he 
takes one wanted poster from the Crime Pool and 
gives it to the player of his choice.
Dance Hall
☞ A: When a player annexes the Dance 
Hall, he takes $1 from the supply. T en he may 
remove one or two of his cowboys (including the 
cowboy at the Dance Hall) from anywhere on the 
game board and return them to his Ranch.
Telegraph Office
☞ A: When a player annexes the Telegraph 
Oﬃ ce, he takes $1 from the supply. T en he chooses 
one of these two options:
. Take two wanted posters from the box and add 
them to the Crime Pool; or
. Take two wanted posters from the Crime Pool and return them to the box.
Essentially, the player can choose to shorten or lengthen the game by 
increasing or decreasing the number of wanted posters in the Crime Pool (see 
“End of the Game” on page 10).
✬ THE RAILROAD ✬
T e railroad’s the biggest thing to ever happen to this
town, yessiree!
T e arrival of the railroad promises to bring great wealth to Deadwood 
– particularly to whoever is rich enough to take advantage of it! 
Completing the railroad is one of the three ways that the game can end 
(see “End of the Game” on page 10).
T e railroad is comprised of four railroad tiles and the Train Station 
tile. At the beginning of the game, the players do not know the exact route 
that the railroad will take. T e players determine the route when they add 
railroad tiles to the board. Choosing the route is very powerful, because any 
building in the railroad’s path is destroyed!
When a player annexes Town Hall, he adds one railroad tile to the board. T e new 
tile must be placed at the end of the current railroad route, forming a continuous 
path into town. T ere are always two possible locations to place a railroad tile.
T e tile is placed on the chosen plot. If there is a building tile on the plot, the 
building is removed from the board and placed at the bottom of its building 
stack (if the Saloon marked with a “X” is destroyed, place it on the bottom of 
the ﬁ rst building stack). Also, any cowboys at a building that is destroyed 
by a railroad tile are immediately sent to the Abandoned Mine. T e Sheriﬀ 
remains unaﬀ ected when a building is destroyed.
T e new track can 
be placed on plot 1 
or plot 2. If it goes 
over plot 2, the Gold 
Mine is destroyed, 
and returned to the 
bottom of the second 
building stack.
w 
us
the
ng
of 
d
y 
e 
g 
Fastshot Arnie 

Every cowboy who is at a building that is adjacent to the new railroad 
tile can immediately annex his building. T e player who placed 
this railroad tile chooses the order in which the buildings are annexed. 
T is procedure has no eﬀ ect on adjacent buildings with no cowboys.
N: Remember to take $2 from the supply and give them to the 
player who controls the Hotel, even if the Hotel is not adjacent to the 
new railroad tile.
If all four railroad tiles are already on the board when 
a player annexes Town Hall, he places the Train Station 
on the board instead of a railroad tile. Every cowboy 
who is at a building that is adjacent to the Train 
Station can immediately annex his building twice. 
T e player who placed the Train Station chooses the 
order in which the buildings are annexed. After these 
building have been annexed, the game is over.
N: Remember to take $4 from the supply and give them to the 
player who controls the Hotel, even if the Hotel is not adjacent to the 
Train Station.
✬ THE OUTSKIRTS OF TOWN ✬
T ere ain’t much to do out there on the outskirts of 
town… less ‘en you like jackalope…
T ere are two special locations on the game board: On the 
right side of the board is the Abandoned Mine. During 
the game, cowboys may ﬁ nd themselves sent to this area 
(if they skedaddled to avoid a ﬁ ght, for example). T ere 
are no actions or abilities that a cowboy can use at the 
Abandoned Mine. No shootouts are held at the Abandoned Mine, and 
there is no limit to the number of cowboys (of any player) that can be 
at the Abandoned Mine at one time.
Cowboys remain at the Abandoned Mine until the player annexes the 
Dance Hall or performs a “Head Back to the Ranch” action to return 
them to his Ranch.
On the left side of the board is Boot Hill. T is is where cowboys are sent 
when they are killed during the game. T ere are no actions or abilities 
here either: the only reason a cowboy goes to Boot Hill is if he’s dead!
Cowboys on Boot Hill cannot be used again for the rest of the game. 
Once cowboys are sent to Boot Hill, they can’t ever leave – Rest in Peace.
END OF THE GAME
T ere are three ways that the game can end:
☞ T e Train Station is placed on the board;
☞ T ere are no wanted posters left in the Crime Pool; or
☞ Any player has no cowboys alive.
When any of these events occur, the current player completes his turn and the 
game ends. If a player has no cowboys alive, he can still win the game if he has 
the most money.
Now each player must pay a ﬁ ne for any wanted posters he holds:
After paying ﬁ nes, the player with the most money takes control of Deadwood 
and wins the game! If there is a tie, all tied players face oﬀ in T e Final Shootout!
✬ THE FINAL SHOOTOUT ✬
If there is a tie for the most money at the end of the game, all tied players will face 
oﬀ in T e Final Shootout! Each player chooses one of his surviving cowboys 
to make his stand. Unlike other shootouts, there is no limit to the number of 
cartridges a player can use. If there are more than two cowboys in T e Final 
Shootout, each player must declare which cowboy he is shooting at before rolling 
any dice. T e starting player chooses his target ﬁ rst, followed by the other players 
in clockwise order.
Similar to other shootouts, the cowboy with the highest strength gets to roll ﬁ rst. 
If there are more than two cowboys in the ﬁ nal shootout, the player may divide 
his ﬁ rst roll of dice between the enemy cowboys. He must declare how many dice 
he is allocating to each cowboy before rolling.
T e winner of T e Final Shootout takes control of Deadwood and wins the game! 
If all the cowboys involved in T e Final Shootout are killed, then the player with 
the most money who was not involved in T e Final Shootout is the winner. If 
all players were involved in T e Final Shootout and no cowboys survive, then 
all players lose; the Cavalry arrives in an empty town and wonders where all the 
gangs have gone...
W P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 +
Fine 
         
FASTSHOT ARNIE: 
 = 18 and 
 = 3 ☞ -6 TOTAL POINTS: 12
WILD JOE BUCK: 
 = 15 and 
 = 0 ☞ O 
 TOTAL POINTS: 15
JIM TEASPOON: 
 = 20 and 
 = 2 ☞ -3 
TOTAL POINTS: 17
SALLY READ: 
 = 21 and 
 = 4 ☞ -10 
TOTAL POINTS: 11
With 17 points, Jim Teaspoon wins!
Wild Joe Buck
boot hill
abandoned mine

One Of the mOst cherished fantasy stOries Of 
all time nOw cOmes tO yOur tabletOp...
JOin bilbO baggins as he ventures fOrth frOm the shire 
On a perilOus and legendary JOurney. designed by reiner 
Knizia, the hObbit is a bOard game Of bidding, chance, 
and treasure fOr 2-5 players. taKing On the rOles Of 
dwarves, players must guide bilbO strategically On his 
quest tO plunder the dragOn smaug’s lair.
cOmbining strategic card-playing with the 
unpredictability Of dice-rOlling, the hObbit features 
elegant gameplay that’s fun fOr the entire family. 
bOlster yOur dwarf’s pOwers while meeting all the 
challenges that cOme yOur way in Order tO earn mOre 
treasure than yOur cOmpaniOns.
but beware, smaug is descending upOn 
laKetOwn, seeKing tO ruin yOur quest. 
can yOu lead bilbO baggins tO the 
dragOn’s lair? find Out with 
the hObbit!
© 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without specific written permission. The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and the characters, items, events, and places 
therein are trademarks or registered trademarks of The Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Middle-earth Enterprises and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd. and their respective licensees. Fantasy Flight Games, 
Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved to their respective owners.
TM
TM
www.FantasyFlightgames.com

✬ credits ✬
Dust Games Team
G D
Loïc Lamy
E P
David Preti
C I
Edouard Guiton and Miguel Coimbra
G D
Goulven Quentel 
I
Miguel Coimbra, Nicolas Fructus,
Edourd Guiton and Goulven Quentel
G 
Nicolas Fructus
L
Goulven Quentel
T
Fulvio Cattaneo
E
William Niebling
Fantasy Flight Games Team
P
Steven Kimball
P M
Eric Knight
FFG L G D
Corey Konieczka
FFG L G P
Michael Hurley
P
Christian T. Petersen
Dust Game Limited would like to thank:
Tammy Niebling for her great contribution. Paolo Parente, 
Ketto Pelan, Gilles Garnier, José Rey, Erwan Hascoët, Frederic 
Henry and Olivier Zamﬁ rescu. A special thanks to the city 
of Toulouse where we discovered this game. T anks to Bony 
for his work on the original prototype, and thanks to all the 
playstesters of Akrojeux and Jocere.
© 2011 Dust Games Ltd. Hong Kong, all rights reserved. © 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights 
reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without speciﬁ c permission. Deadwood, Fantasy Flight 
Games, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located 
at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can be reached by telephone 
at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months 
due to small parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT 
IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 12 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.