The Decktet
www.decktet.com
The Decktet is a fabulous thing from another
world, a six-suited deck of cards that can be
used to play dozens of different games.
Cards in the Decktet are distinguished by hav-
ing different ranks, suits, and marks. Some
cards have two or even three suits.
the PAINTER
the PAINTER
the JOURNEY
the JOURNEY
the SAVAGE
the SAVAGE
rank
suits
mark
For example: The Savage is a rank 3 card
that belongs to both the suit of Leaves and the
suit of Wyrms. It has the - mark, which means
that it is a face card.
A Ranks a
The core of the Decktet is the 36 card basic
deck. It consists of6 Aces,
24 number-rank cards, and
6 Crowns (+).
There is an Ace and a + for each suit. The
number-ranked cards each have two suits, and
there are three cards of each number-rank (like
the rank 3 cards pictured above).
G There are also some extended deck cards:
4 Pawns ($), 4 Courts (//), and an Excuse.
The extended extras are a bit like Jokers in a
mundane deck of cards. Leave them out unless
the rules for a game specifically say to include
them.
B Suits b
The suits are not paired up in the same way at
every rank. The Savage is the only card in the
whole deck to pair Leaves and Wyrms.
The structure of the deck is represented in the
figure below.
Although it can be daunting to look at, it con-
tains all the information about the number ranks.
There is a line between each pair of suits that
appears on a number-ranked card. The numbers
on that line are the ranks that have that pair.
4 8 9
5 7
3 7
2 6
2 4 8
7 9
3 6
6 9
4 5 8
You can see that the dDeE pair appears only once,
on a rank 3 card. The more common aAbB pair ap-
pears three times, at ranks 4, 8, and 9.
G Each Pawn ($) and Court (//) has three suits.
The structure is represented in these figures,
with each edge or line representing one card.
#
%%
For example, the $aAeEfF is represented by the
upper left edge of the Pawns figure.
Decktet Suits
Moons
Suns
Waves
Leaves
Wyrms
Knots
Decktet Ranks
Pawns
*%%#
Courts
Crowns
Aces
2-9
A
Number
 ranks
C Marks c
The people in the deck are marked - and drawn
as face cards.
The , and . marks appear on locations and
events. A few cards are both.
The Aces and the Excuse don’t have marks.

Adaman
0 1 player
You are the heir to the throne, but the
monarch might live a very long time.
You
intend to speed things along, but it will
only work if the major personalities in the
kingdom back your play.
You need to buy,
trick, or eliminate anyone who might stand
in your way.
In this solitaire game, the - mark cards rep-
resent different people in the kingdom who you
need to control. All of the other cards represent
elements which you can use to control them.
D Setup d
Shuffle together the basic deck (A,2…9,+).
Deal five cards in a row; these represent people
and events occurring around the capital city.
Deal another five cards below the capital to rep-
resent resources you have at your disposal. If
you turn up a - card when dealing your re-
sources, put it in a row above the capital cards
and deal another card to your resources. Re-
peat if the next card is a -, and so on until you
have five resources none of which are - cards.
the Capital
your Resources
the Palace
The row of cards above the capital represents
people snooping around the royal palace. If you
place a sixth card in the palace row, the game
ends immediately. You only place cards in the
palace if you turn up a - while dealing your re-
sources, however, so there will typically be few
or even no cards there.
E Game play e
You exercise your resources to control a card in
the capital or palace rows. In order to do so,
discard one or more cards from your resource
row. The cards must all share a suit with the
card you are trying to control, and the total of
their ranks must be at least the rank of the tar-
get card.
Aces count as 1 (one).
Crowns (*) count as 10 (ten).
Note that the cards from your resource row do
not need to share a suit with each other, pro-
vided they share a suit with the card you are
trying to control.
If you control a - card, move it to the discard
pile. If you control any other card, move it to
your resource row; you may use it later to con-
trol something else.
After a play, deal cards so that the capital row
has five cards. Then deal so that your resource
row has five cards; put - cards in the palace
row, as above. When the deck runs out, continue
to play until one of the end game conditions is
met.
F Ending the game f
The game can end in three possible ways. One
means victory, the other two mean defeat.
E 1 e You have moved all of the - cards to the
discard pile. You have control of everyone who
matters and can safely seize the throne. You
win.
E 2 e
You cannot make any further moves,
but there are - cards remaining in the palace or
capital rows. Without the backing of everyone,
your plan must be abandoned. All that scheming
for nothing! You lose.
E 3 e
There are more than five - cards in
the palace row. With so many people snooping
about, someone has discovered your plot. You
lose utterly. It’s the gallows for you, old chum.
If you want to keep score, beyond just winning
or losing:
H 1 h
If you win, total up the ranks of the
personality cards you control and the cards re-
maining in your resource row. The ranks of the
eleven personalities in the basic deck add up to
66, so it’s 66 plus the ranks in your resource row.
H 2 h
If you lose, total up the ranks of
just the personality cards you control. With the
basic deck, it will be less than 66 since you lost.
H 3 h
If lose utterly, you score zero.
Playing well requires paying attention to who you
have controlled and who is still hiding in the deck.
Here’s a list of the - cards, along with their clas-
sic deck names:
aAfF
Author
Painter
Savage
cCdD
Sailor
eEfF
Soldier
Lunatic
bBeE
Penitent
bBaA
Diplomat
dDfF
Merchant
+
bB
Bard
+
aA
Huntress

Emu Ranchers
0 2 players
It’s a hardscrabble life for emu ranchers like
yourself, raising exotic birds for foreign markets.
With the high cost for every bird you hatch, it
probably won’t be worth it in the end.
Each bird on your ranch is represented by a stack
of cards. Cards in a single bird stack must all share
a suit and must be in rank order. At the end of the
hand, the value of a bird is determined by the total
of the number cards in the stack. If the total is too
low, then you can end up losing money on a bird. An
Ace or + makes the stack worth more: more profit
if you can cover expenses, but more loss if you can’t.
The object, naturally enough, is to raise profitable
birds.
G Setup g
Deal six cards to each player. The remaining cards
form the draw pile. There is no discard pile at the
beginning.
Decide who goes first in some equitable way. Play
alternates until the last card is drawn from the draw
pile.
On your turn, you must do one of the following: hatch
a new bird, by starting a new stack; grow a bird, by
adding a card to an existing stack; or discard a card.
After that, you draw one card.
Hatch a new bird: You may start a new stack
by selecting a card from your hand and playing it face
up in front of you.
Grow a bird:
You may grow a bird by adding a
card from your hand to the top of a stack already
in front of you. All of the cards in the stack must
share a single suit, although of course number cards
will each have another suit as well. Stacks must be in
either increasing or decreasing order.
The order of ranks is A, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, +.
You may skip ranks.
B Example: The stack for a blue bird so far is
AcC 4cCdD. You may only play a cC of rank 5 or higher
on that bird.
If you hatch a bird with a number card, you do not
need to declare which suit the stack will follow or which
direction it will go. This will eventually be determined
by cards you play when growing the bird.
When you add cards to a stack, you should set them
at a bit of an offset so that both you and your op-
ponent can see the ranks of all the cards.
Discard:
If you don’t want to play any of the
cards in your hand, you may select and discard one
card. Put it on the top of the discard pile, starting
the pile if necessary.
Draw:
If you discarded, take the top card of the
draw pile. Otherwise, you may take either the top
card of the draw pile or the top card of the discard
pile (if any).
After you draw, your turn is over. If there are still
cards in the draw pile, it is now your opponent’s turn.
H Year end h
When the last card is drawn from the draw pile, the
year ends.
After the year is over, you may play cards from your
hand onto birds that you already have in play. How-
ever, you may not hatch new birds or draw cards
after the year has ended. Since there is no further
player interaction after the year end, you may lay
down remaining cards without waiting for your oppo-
nent. Then discard any cards that you are not able
to play.
For each bird, total up the number cards in the bird
stack. If the total is less than 18, then the you lose
money on the bird. If the total is 18 or more, then
you may make a profit.
Losing Money: You lose points equal to the dif-
ference between the bird’s total and the upkeep cost
of 18. If the number cards total to 15, for example,
you lose 3 points. Furthermore, you lose 5 more points
if there is an Ace or + in the stack; 10 if there are
both.
B Example: At the end of the year, this is Brad-
dock’s stack for an orange bird. He loses 6 points;
that’s 18 - 9 - 8 = 1 for the number cards and 5 points
for the +.
+bB 9aAbB 8aAbB
Possible Profit:
If the total of the number
cards is 18 or more, you still need to pay upkeep for
the bird: Discard number cards from the stack that
total at least 18.
You do not ‘get change’ for cards if you discard more
than 18. If there are any cards remaining — even if
it’s just an Ace or + — you earn some profit.
For profit, you score the total of any remaining num-
ber cards. Furthermore, you gain 5 additional points
if there is an Ace or + in the stack; 10 if there are
both.
B Example:
At the end of the year, this is
Braddock’s stack for a blue bird. He discards the 4,
6, and 8; these total exactly 18. This leaves the Ace,
3, 5, +. He scores 18 points; that’s 3 + 5 = 8 for the
number cards plus 10 for the Ace+Crown.
AcC 3aAcC 4cCdD 5bBcC 6aAcC 8cCdD +cC
Your score for the year is equal to the total value
of your birds. Add it to the score from previous
years. It is possible to lose points for a bad year
and even to have a negative total score from a hor-
rific string of years.
The player who went first should go second in the
next year. A game typically consists of the scores
for four years, but you may lengthen or shorten this
as desired. Since there is some disadvantage to go-
ing first, it’s fairest to tally the score across an even
number of years.
I The extended deck i
If you decide to use some of the extended deck
cards, just shuffle them in at the beginning of the
game. My preference is to use the Excuse plus either
(but not both) the Pawns $ or Courts //.
If you have the Excuse in your hand at the end
of the year, you may discard one of your birds that
would lose money rather than scoring it. If you have
no losing birds, then the Excuse has no effect.
A Pawn or Court is a limited wild card. It may be
played as any number rank, but only to grow a bird
that matches one of the card’s suits. A Pawn or
Court may not be played as an Ace or Crown, nor
may it be played to hatch a bird.
You do not need to declare the effective rank of the
Pawn or Court when you play it, but you may not
make a play which leaves no space for it at all.
B Example: The stack for one of Morgan’s birds
is A-3-6-$. If it is like this at the end of the hand,
the $ can count as 9. If he adds a 9 to the stack,
then the $ can count as 8.

Jacynth
0 2–3 players
Jacynth is among the oldest cities, and a map
of its streets is a record of history. It is
a haphazard maze of overlapping interests
and neighborhoods, with intricate social bonds
tying one block to the next.
You could control the city if you could control
a nexus in that maze of ancient intrigue,
but first you would have to find it.
This is a territory-control game. In addition
to the Decktet, you’ll need four influence tokens
for each player. Each player needs a different
colour or style of token.
During the game, cards are laid out to form a
six-by-six grid that represents the city. Players
claim areas by placing influence tokens on cards,
aiming to control more of the city than their op-
ponents do.
TOWERS
the 
RAZEWAY
the OLD 
CITY
Districts:
A district is a group of cards
that share a suit symbol and are adjacent to
one other. The cards in a district need not be
in a straight line, but each card must share an
edge with another card in the district. Districts
do not connect across diagonals or across open
spaces that do not have cards in them yet.
A number card (since it has two suits) will be part
of two districts; one for each suit.
A player controls a district when they have an
influence token on a card in that district.
You cannot place an influence token in a dis-
trict already controlled by an opponent, but it
is possible that subsequent card play will con-
nect what had been two separate districts. If
this happens, then the player whose token is on
the higher ranked card controls the district. If
you have more than one token in a district, the
card ranks do not add together; only the highest
ranked card counts for control.
J Setup j
The dealer shuffles the deck, deals each player
a three card hand, and deals cards face up to
form the initial play area. There are three pos-
sible initial arrangements, shown on the left. With
each, further cards are played around the start-
ing cards so as to form a six-by-six grid.
The Razeway is the simplest of the starting
boards. The Towers and the Old City allow
for more strategic and aggressive play, at the
cost of making the grid less obvious; you may
want to place cards you aren’t using face down
to lay out the center of the grid.
Each player starts with four influence tokens.
K Game play k
Players take turns, starting with the player on
the dealer’s left.
On your turn, you begin by
adding a card to the city. Then you may place
an influence token. Finally, draw a card.
Explore the city: Select a card from your
hand and play it face up on the table, adjacent
to one of the cards already in play. You must
place it within the grid of the city.
Exert influence:
If you have influence
tokens remaining, you may place one on a card in
play. You are not required to do so. You may
place influence on the card you added this turn
or on another card, even on one of the starting
cards.
You may not place an influence token on a card
that is part of a district controlled by another
player. This restriction applies even if the card
has another suit that also makes it part of a
second district, where only one of the districts
is controlled. You may, however, place an influ-
ence token on a card that is part of a district
you already control. This can be a good idea if
the card is part of an uncontrolled second dis-
trict.
You may not place more than one influence token
per turn. You may not place an influence token
on a card that already has an influence token on
it. You may not move an influence token placed
on a previous turn.
Draw a card:
Drawing a card ends your
turn. After the deck is depleted, play continues
until thirty-six cards have been played and the
final player’s turn is complete.
L Scoring l
At the end of the game, you score points for
each district you control: One point for each
card that comprises the district. The winner is
the player with the highest total score.
There is no bonus or special advantage for having
more than one influence token in a district, and no
effect from unplaced influence tokens remaining
at the end of the game.
A district may consist of a single card, if that
card is not adjacent to any that share a suit
with it. A single isolated Ace or Crown would be
worth one point to a player who had a token on
it. A single isolated number card comprises two
single card districts, one for each suit, and would
be worth two points.
M The extended deck m
You can add the Excuse, the $s, the //s, or any
combination of these.
The Excuse is a block card. It is not part of
any adjacent districts, and no district may pass
through it. You may not place influence tokens
on the Excuse.
A Pawn ($) or Court (//), since it has three
suits, will be part of three different districts.
Although they may be part of your districts,
you may not place influence tokens on Pawns or
Courts themselves.

Nonesuch
0 3–4 players
Nonesuch is a trick-taking game with this cen-
tral rule: At the beginning of each trick, the
player leading it names a specific suit which other
players must follow.
N Dealing and bidding n
Randomly decide who will deal the first hand.
Subsequent hands are dealt by the player on
the old dealer’s left.
The dealer shuffles the basic deck plus the Ex-
cuse. Deal cards out as evenly as possible to
all players: 12 each with three players; 9 each
with four players. This will leave one card left
over, which is dealt face up in the middle of the
table. If the up card is an Ace or Crown, then
its suit will be the trump for this hand. If the
up card is a number rank, then one of its suits
will be trump; the player holding the Excuse will
decide after bidding is complete. If the up card
is the Excuse itself, then there will be no trump
suit.
After looking at cards but before play begins:
The player on the dealer’s left bids, then each
player clockwise around the table bids. There
are three possible bids:
A bid of Some means that the player expects
to take at least one trick. The player scores
one point at the end of the hand for each trick
they’ve taken.
A bid of Most means that the player expects
to take at least half the tricks: at least 6 with
three players; at least 5 with four players. If
the player takes that many tricks or more, they
score two points for each trick they’ve won. If
not, then they lose one point for each trick less
than half that they’ve taken.
A bid of None means that the player hopes to
take exactly zero tricks. If they do, they score
a number of points equal to the number of tricks
in the hand (12 with three players, 9 with four).
If not, they lose one point for each trick they’ve
taken.
Once every player has bid, the player who has
the Excuse reveals it and discards it. If the
up card is a number rank card, then that player
decides which of its suits will be trump. In any
case, they take the up card into their hand to
replace the Excuse.
O Playing the hand o
The player on the dealer’s left leads the first
trick.
You may not lead a card with the trump suit until
a trump card has been played, unless you have
nothing but trumps in your hand.
When a card is led, the player who led it must se-
lect and announce one of the suits on the card.
If the lead is an Ace or Crown, there is no choice
— just say what the suit is. For number cards,
you need to select which suit other players will
be required to follow.
Clockwise around the table, each player plays a
card that has the named suit. Players who have
no cards of the named suit may play any card
from their hand.
If no trump was played, then the highest card of
the named suit wins the trick. If any trumps were
played, then the highest trump wins the trick.
(As usual — Aces lose to 2s, and +s beat 9s.)
For the purpose of following suit, all that mat-
ters is the named suit. But a card counts as
trump if it has the trump suit, even if trump is
different from the named suit.
The winner of the trick leads the next trick. Once
someone has played a trump, it is permissible to
lead with a trump card.
B Example:
Wyrms (eE) are trump. Tar-
rant plays 8aAbB and calls Suns (bB). Each sub-
sequent player must play a bB card if they have
one. Raphael plays 2bBeE which both follows suit
(bB) and is a trump card (eE). Unless someone
else plays a higher trump, Raphael wins the trick.
A Scoring a
Play continues until all cards have been played.
After the last trick, calculate scores based on
players’ bids and the number of tricks they have
won. The player on the dealer’s left deals the
next hand.
For the sake of having an official number, I rec-
ommend playing until some player reaches a cu-
mulative score of 31 points or more. The player
with the highest cumulative score is then the win-
ner.
B Strategy b
Suppose you lead the Crown of Suns (+bB), and
Suns are not the trump suit. If one of the other
players has no Suns, then they may play a trump
and take the trick. Even if all of them have Suns,
perhaps one of them will play a card with both
Suns and the trump suit. How likely is that?
4 8 9
5 7
3 7
2 6
2 4 8
7 9
3 6
6 9
4 5 8
The answer depends on the trump suit. The fig-
ure above summarizes the combinations. Look at
the line connecting the lead suit to the trump
suit, and you’ll see which cards have both of
those suits.
If Leaves dD are trump when you lead Suns bB,
for example, note that there is no line between
bB and dD. There are no cards with both those
suits in the basic deck. So no one can both follow
suit and trump.
If Moons aA are trump, however, look at aA and
bB: 4,8,9. There are three aAbB cards at ranks
4, 8, and 9. Unless those cards are in your hand,
you should probably expect someone to trump.

Thricewise
0 2–5 players
Thricewise is a game about the number three.
Every turn, players select and reveal cards si-
multaneously. In order by rank, cards are added
to a shared grid. Players score each time they
make three in a row — a flush, a set, or a straight.
You’ll need a pad or scratch paper to keep score.
C Setup c
Shuffle together the basic deck (A,2…9,+).
Deal three cards to each player. If there are
2 or 4 players, deal four cards face up to form
a 2x2 grid; if there are 3 or 5 players, deal six
cards face up to form a 2x3 grid.
D Game play d
At the beginning of each turn, players each se-
lect one card from their hand and place it face
down in front of them. Once everyone has made
a selection, cards are revealed.
Provided all the cards are of different ranks,
players place their cards in order of increasing
rank. A player with an Ace would go first, then
a player with a 2, and so on; a player with a +
would place last.
If two or more players reveal cards of the same
rank, their cards are deferred.
Leave de-
ferred cards face up on the table; they may be
placed during a later turn.
If your card this
turn is deferred and you have deferred cards
left over from previous turns, they all remain de-
ferred until you get a normal play. Any players
who have cards that are not deferred play nor-
mally, lowest rank first.
When adding a card to the grid, place it next
to a card already in the grid. It may be adja-
cent orthogonally (touching edges) or diagonally
(touching corners). Cards may not be played on
top of other cards.
Scoring: If you play a card that makes three
in a row (either orthogonally or diagonally) then
you score points.
The three cards may be a
flush (three cards that share a suit symbol), a
set (three cards of the same rank), or a straight
(three cards in rank order). You may score mul-
tiple times with one card if it makes threesomes
in different directions or of different kinds.
The cards for a straight must be in order. For
example: 5-6-7 is a straight, but 5-7-6 is not.
Each trio is worth the rank of the lowest number
card of the three: as few as 2 or as many as 9
points.
A and + are not numbers, and Aces and Crowns
do not effect to scoring. A set of three +s or
three Aces is not worth any points, a straight
A-2-3 is worth 2 points, and a straight 8-9-+
is worth 8 points.
Hitting the edge:
If the grid of cards
is already six cards wide, then cards may not be
played to make it any wider. Similarly, if the grid
is six cards tall, then cards may not be played to
make it taller. Until the grid reaches six cards in
a direction, cards may be played to extend it on
either side. As a result, the starting cards may
ultimately be anywhere in the grid: in the center,
on a side, or in a corner.
Deferred cards:
If you have deferred
cards on the table and are able to play in a later
turn, then play the deferred cards along with
your new card. Although only the new card de-
termines when you are allowed to play, you may
play the new card and deferred cards in any or-
der you please.
If you do not get a chance to play your deferred
cards before the game ends, then the cards are
simply set aside.
Drawing cards: After everyone has played
their card — or set it aside because it was de-
ferred — each player draws a card. After the
deck is depleted or if there are not enough cards
left for everyone to get one, then nobody draws.
But keep playing until players empty their hands.
Game end:
The game ends after the turn
in which players play the last cards from their
hands. If players have deferred cards in the fi-
nal turns or if the cards do not deal out evenly,
then there will be gaps left in the tableau at the
end.
B Example: You play +bB, with 8aAbB and
9aAbB already in place. It is worth 8 for the bB
flush plus 8 for the 8-9-+ straight; a total of
16 points.
B Example: You play the 5eEfF with the other
cards as shown. You score 4 for the eE flush, 4
for the fF flush, and 5 for the set of 5s; a to-
tal of 13 points. Note that both flushes use the
same cards (the 4-5-8) but they make flushes in
two suits.
This document is ©2008-2018 P.D. Magnus.
Some rights
reserved. It is offered under a Creative Commons Attri-
bution NonCommercial ShareAlike 4.0 License.
For more information, visit www.decktet.com