Deep Sea Adventure
Instruction Manual
You and a group of other daring deep sea divers head out to 
sea to dive for sunken treasure. You're all rivals but you're 
poor, so you're forced to share a rented submarine and a 
single tank of air! The deeper you dive, the richer the 
treasures you'll find, but if you don't get back to the sub 
before that tank of air runs out, you'll have to drop all the 
treasure you've collected in order to make it back on board 
alive. It's time to see who can bring home the greatest riches.
Set Contents
2 Special Dice: 1-3 dots, 2x on each Die
6 Sea Diver Pieces
1 Air Marker
1 Submarine Board
12 Blank Undersea Chips
32 Undersea Treasure Chips: 8 each of 4 types
Level 1: Triangular, 0-3 points (2 each)
Level 2: Square, 4-7 points (2 each)
Level 3: Pentagonal, 8-11 points (2 each)
Level 4: Hexagonal, 12-15 points (2 each)
Preparations
• Place the Submarine where it is clearly visible to all players.
• Place the Air Marker over "25" on the Submarine Board.
• Turn over the Undersea Treasure Chips to hide their values, 
separate them by Level, and shuffle them thoroughly.
• Line up the Treasure Chips in order by Level from low to 
high such that they connect to the Submarine Board. So 
long as they form a single line, any arrangement is fine.
• Players take one Sea Diver piece each, according to 
preference, and place these pieces flat on the Submarine 
Board with their pointed bellies pointing down.
• The player who has been in the ocean or gone swimming 
most recently takes the first turn.
Game Objective
The game takes place over 3 rounds – 3 deep sea dives. 
Each dive begins with a full tank of air and all Divers on the 
Submarine. The player who gains the most points over the 
three dives is the winner. In order to gain points, you must 
bring Undersea Treasure Chips back to the Submarine. You 
can only return to the Submarine once per dive. A dive ends 
when all Divers have returned to the Sub or the air runs out.
Turn Progression
Players take turns, going clockwise around the board. On 
their turn, a player conducts the following four steps unless 
they have already returned to the Submarine. 
Step 1: Breathe (reduce air)
Move the Air Marker on the Submarine Board toward "0" by 
the number of Treasure Chips you are carrying. Treasure that 
you retrieved in previous rounds does not count. If the air 
falls to "0" or below, your turn is the last turn of the dive; 
continue and finish your turn.
Step 2: Declare if you will turn back or not
You may only turn back for the Sub if you are carrying treasure. 
If you decide to turn back, turn your Diver Piece to face the 
Submarine. You can only change direction once each dive.
Once you have turned around you can skip this step for the
rest of the dive. If you roll the dice without declaring a 
direction, you must dive deeper.
Step 3: Swim (roll the dice and move)
Roll both dice. Move your Diver Piece in the direction it is
facing along the line of Undersea Chips a number of jumps
equal to your roll. If you are carrying treasure, subtract the
number of Treasure Chips you are carrying from your roll 
before moving. (Note: you may not be able to move!) When
moving past an Undersea Chip being explored by another
Diver, jump over that Chip without counting it. If your roll
takes you beyond the last Undersea Chip, stop on that Chip.
Step 4: Treasure Hunt (pick up or drop treasure)
Take one of the following three actions:
a) Do nothing.
b) Pick up the Treasure Chip your Diver is stopped on and 
place it in front of you without flipping it over. Place a 
Blank Undersea Chip in its place and place your Diver on 
top of that Blank Chip facing the same direction it was 
facing before. You are now carrying this treasure. You can 
carry any number of Treasure Chips.
c) If you are carrying treasure and are stopped on a Blank 
Undersea Chip, you may drop a Treasure Chip of your 
choice on that spot. Replace the Blank Chip with the
Treasure Chip and place your Diver on that Treasure Chip.
Round Conclusion
At the end of a dive, perform the following clean up actions:
• Players who made it back to the Submarine turn over their 
Undersea Treasure Chips and reveal their values. They 
keep these Chips for scoring at the end of the game. 
• Players who did not make it back to the Sub before the end 
of the dive drop their treasure to the bottom of the sea and 
return to the Sub. In order, starting from the Diver closest to
the Submarine, players stack their Treasure Chips (in any 
order they choose) next to the last Chip in the line of 
Undersea Chips. Once 3 Chips have been stacked, the next
Chip begins a new stack at the end of the line. These stacks 
now function as a single Treasure Chip in subsequent dives.
All Chips in a stack should be picked up, placed, and 
dropped together. They are also treated as a single Chip
when calculating air consumption and movement. 
• Remove all Blank Undersea Chips from the line of Undersea 
Chips and slide together the remaining Undersea Chips to 
close any gaps.
• The last player to return to the Sub takes the first turn of the
next dive.
Game Conclusion and Victory
At the end of the third dive, after clean up, players total their
points (the values of all the Treasure Chips they brought back
to the Sub) to find a winner. If a tie exists, the player with the
most high-level Treasure Chips is the winner. If this doesn't
break the tie, the game ends in a draw. 
rules transliteration by Jeff Hohner, Sept. 2015 CC BY-NC-SA