“We are in desperate hour! I know not what grievous cause has provoked these accursed races 
to arise, but Orcs, Dragons, Demons and the Dead make haste toward Monarch City. The 
King and the entire Realm are in need of valiant Heroes!”
Will you answer the King’s call?
In the ancient Citadel of Monarch City, the King calls to arms the finest Heroes to defend 
against a Darkness that engulfs the land. You and your allies must embark on a journey to 
defend the countryside, repair the tainted lands, and defeat the four creature factions before any 
of them enter the Citadel. And they approach from all sides! Fast populating Orcs! Fierce 
Dragons! Undead that bring Fear! And Demons! All tainting the land in their wake. There 
are several paths to defeat, but only one path to victory, and only the most valiant Hero will be 
named King’s Champion.
Defenders of the Realm is a cooperative fantasy board game in which 1-4 players take a role 
as one of the Realm’s heroes (Choose from Cleric, Dwarf, Eagle Rider, Paladin, Ranger, 
Rogue, Sorcerer and Wizard). You, as one of the heroes answering the King’s call, make use 
of strategy, special abilities, cooperation, card play and a little luck in Defenders of the Realm 
for a unique experience every adventure. But be forewarned! There is never time to rest. As each 
Enemy General is struck down in battle, the remaining dark forces only grow more difficult to 
vanquish and their march to Monarch City gets faster with each Hero victory!
by Richard Lanius

Game Components:
 
Game Board	
	
	
	
	
	
8 Hero Character Cards	
	
	
 
8 Hero Miniatures
4 General Character Cards
4 General Miniatures
100 Minions
o 25 Black (Varkolak’s Undead)	
	
	
	
 
o 25 Blue (Sapphire’s Dragonkin)	
	
	
	
o 25 Red (Balazarg’s Demons)		
	
	
o 25 Green (Gorgutt’s Orcs)
War Status Board
Deck of Darkness Spreads Cards (card descriptions on page 12-13) 
Deck of Hero Cards (card descriptions on page 13-14)	 	
	
 
Deck of Quest Cards (card descriptions on page 14)
12 Tainted Crystals
5 Magic Gate Tokens
12 Dice – 3 per color (Black, Blue, Red, Green)	 	
	
	
7 Status Tokens (War Status, 4 General Wound Markers, and Eagle Rider 
Status)
42 Life Tokens
Winning (or Losing) the Game:
 - Players win by defeating all 4 Generals. 
 - Players lose if any of the following occurs:
 i.	 Any of the 4 Generals move into Monarch City
 ii.	 If a Darkness Spreads Card identifies minions to be placed on the board 
 and you do not have enough minions to meet the requirements of the card.
 iii.	The last of the 12 Tainted Crystals is added to the board.
 iv.	If 5 enemy minions are in Monarch City at any time. 
The King’s Champion: While the players win or lose as a group, there is also an 
overall winner that is hailed as the legendary King’s Champion. To determine the King’s 
Champion, each player adds all of their completed Quest Cards and General Character 
Cards (meaning the player struck the decisive blow when fighting that General) 
together. The player with the most points is the winner. If there is a tie, it is the player 
with the most quests completed. If there is still a tie, congratulations, you are both, 
The King’s Champion!
Example: Garrett the Rogue completed 6 quests and defeated 2 Generals for a total 
of 8. Johnny the Paladin completed 4 quests and defeated 1 General for a total of 5, 
and Ryan the Ranger completed 5 quests with no Generals defeated for a total of 5, 
and Becky the Wizard completed 3 quests and defeated 1 General for a total of 4. The 
King’s Champion is Garrett and his deeds will be hailed above all the other heroes of 
the land in songs and tales of valor for years to come. 

Set Up: 
1)	Place the game board in the center of the table. Place the War Status Board and 
General Character Cards beside the board. 
2)	Place a Status Token on the highest number of the Wound Track on each 
General’s Character Card. Place a Status Token in the Early War space of the 
War Status Board. 
3)	Set the minions and Tainted Crystals beside the board for easy access during 
play…”You will need them soon enough, hero.”
4)	Each player takes 1 Hero Character Card and its matching hero miniature 
(hereafter called hero). Place the hero in Monarch City. Take the number of Life 
Tokens identified on the Hero Character Card and place them on the card. 
Note: Heroes may be chosen or dealt face down at random depending on the 
desire of the players. If two or more players want the same hero, the most 
heroic among them chooses first.
5)	Shuffle the Hero Cards and deal 2 to each player. 
6)	Shuffle the Quest Cards and deal 1 to each player. 
7)	Place one Magic Gate token on the gate icon in the Dancing Stone location. Take 
the other Magic Gate tokens and place them near the board for easy access 
during play. 
8)	Enemy Set Up (The Generals and their minions arrive!):
 Place each of the four Generals on the board in the spaces marked with their 
respective pictures. Place 3 appropriately colored minions with each General. 
Also, place a Tainted Crystal on the space with Balazarg, the Demon General, 
since demons taint the land with only 3 minions instead of the usual 4 (see 
Overruns and Tainted Land on page 11). 
 Draw 3 Darkness Spreads Cards: Discard any card that does not show 2 
locations, and draw another card(s). For each of the three cards, place 2 minions 
on the 2 locations pictured (12 total minions) - and ignore the minions identified 
on the card. The minions placed will be the same colors as the locations on the 
card. For example, if Father Oak Forest (a Green location) was a location on one 
of the drawn cards, it would receive 2 Green minions. 
 Note: If you draw a special card such as All is Quiet or Orc Patrols, discard it 
and draw another card. The 3 Cards drawn must be cards that show 6 different 
locations.

 Draw 3 More Darkness Spreads Cards: Place 1 minion in the same manner as 
before on both locations of the 3 cards (6 total minions). As above, the 3 cards 
drawn must be cards that show 2 locations. 
 Note: In this phase, minions can be added to a location that already has minions 
as long as any additions do not take the total number of minions to 4. If you 
draw a card that would cause this to occur, discard that card and draw another. 
As with Balazarg’s location, if a third demon is added to a location, place a 
Tainted Crystal on that space. 
 Reshuffle the Darkness Spreads deck: After placing the minions, shuffle all 
the cards drawn back into the Darkness Spreads deck and place the deck beside 
the board.
 Note: After Enemy Set Up there should be a total of 4 Generals and 30 minions 
 on the board: 4 locations, each with a General and 3 minions, and then 18 more 
 minions distributed among 6 to 12 other locations. 
You are now ready to Defend the Realm!
Playing the Game: The most aggressive player…“You all know who that 
is.”…goes first and play moves clockwise (to the player’s left) around the table. If 
you cannot decide who is the most aggressive, take it outside, or roll dice to see 
who goes first…“Wimps.” 
Game Turn: During her turn, the player completes each of the following 3 
steps (divided into times of day) prior to the next player taking his turn, Daytime 
(Perform Actions), Evening (Draw Hero Cards), Nighttime (Draw Darkness 
Spreads Cards).
Step 1- Daytime: Refresh active Life Tokens by returning all Life Tokens 
that were face down on the character card back to their designated location on 
the card, face up. The player then executes a number of actions equal to her 
active Life Tokens (turning each token face down on her Character Card once it 
has been used). Each Life Token grants 1 action that may be spent in any way 
the player wishes. The only way active Life Tokens are reduced is by Suffering 
Wounds (page 7) or losing a battle to a General (page 9).
Note: With the exception of the Rumors at the Inn action, there is no limit to 
the number of times a player can perform the same action in a turn. Players 
may spend no more than 2 actions each turn performing the Rumors at the Inn 
action. 

 Actions (all Actions require the use of 1 Life Token unless otherwise noted): 
Movement by Foot: Move 1 space to an adjacent location (connected by
 a line). 
	
Movement by Horse: Move up to 2 locations away (connected by lines) by 
discarding a Hero Card with a Horse Icon on the top.
Movement by Eagle: Move up to 4 locations away (connected by lines) by 
discarding a Hero Card with an Eagle Icon on the top. 
Movement by Magic Gate: There are two ways to move by Magic Gate:
1.	 Discard a Hero Card with a Magic Gate icon and move to the location on 
the card or to any Magic Gate on the board. 
2.	 When there are multiple Magic Gates on the board, you may move from 
one Magic Gate to any other Magic Gate for a single action and no card is 
required.
Perform a Special Skill: Some heroes have unique skills that may require 
1 or more actions to perform. If a skill requires an action, it will be noted on 
the Hero Character Card. Otherwise, the skill can be executed without the 
use of an action. 
Build a Magic Gate: When a hero is on a location and also has a card 
matching that location, he may discard that card to build a Magic Gate. Place 
a Magic Gate token on that location to show that the gate has been built. 
Rumors at the Inn: A hero may spend up to 2 actions at an Inn to listen for 
rumors. When doing so, call out a card color (Red, Green, Blue, or Black) and 
draw 2 cards for each action spent listening for rumors. Keep all cards that 
match the called color, as well as any Purple (Special) cards that were drawn.
 
Heal the Land: If the hero is on a tainted location, discard a Hero Card that 
matches the location color and roll 2 dice. If a 5 or more is rolled on either 
die, the hero removes 1 Tainted Crystal from that location. Only 1 Tainted 
Crystal may be removed per action. 
Healing Wounds: Heroes may heal themselves. The number of Life 
Tokens recovered depends on the location. 
 In Monarch City and Inns, the hero is completely healed
 (all Life Tokens are restored).
 At any other location that does not have enemy minions, 
heal 2 Life Tokens.
Note: Heroes may not heal above their starting number of Life Tokens. 
Heroes may not heal on a location with enemy minions or Generals. Life 
Tokens regained by healing may not be used until the following turn.

Engage Minions in Combat: Roll a die for each enemy minion in the same 
location as the hero. The dice rolled should match their target’s color. 
Note: It takes only 1 Action to attack all minions at the same location. 
Example 1: If the location has 3 Orc minions, the hero would roll 3 green dice. 
Example 2: If the location has 1 Undead and 2 Dragonkin minions, the hero 
would roll 1 black and 2 blue dice. The results of the dice are applied to the 
appropriate enemy minions. In this example – a black die would be applied to 
the Undead minion, defeating it with a 4 or more and the blue dice would be 
applied to the Dragonkin minions, defeating one with each roll of 5 or more.
Enemy Minions: There are 4 different races that make up the forces of the 
Dark Lord’s Army invading the Realm. Each race is represented on the board by 
colored minions and a General of the same color. Below is a brief description of 
each enemy race and its color. 
Note: The term “Minions” and the enemies’ race (Demon, Orc, Dragonkin 
and Undead) are used interchangeably and both refer to the basic units of the 
invading armies.
Demons (Red): These Creatures from another plane of existence 
Taint the Land more rapidly than the other armies. A roll of 4 or 
more is required to defeat a Demon minion. 
Orcs (Green): The Orcs are plentiful in number and spread faster 
than other enemy units, fortunately they are easier to defeat. A 
roll of 3 or more is required to defeat an Orc minion.
Dragonkin (Blue): These powerful creatures are the most difficult 
enemy to defeat. A roll of 5 or more is required to defeat each 
Dragonkin minion. 
Undead (Black): The minions of the Undead army are terrifying 
to behold and cause Fear among even the bravest of heroes. A roll 
of 4 or more is required to defeat an Undead minion. 
 
Suffering Wounds: If a hero ends a turn in a location that contains enemy 
minions, then he suffers a wound for each minion in that location. In addition, 
if one or more Undead minions are present, one additional wound is inflicted 
from Fear. If the hero suffers any wounds, the number of Life Tokens equal to 
the number of wounds received is turned face down and set beside the Hero 
Character Card. Heroes must choose the Healing Wounds Action (see page 6) 
to restore Life Tokens lost to wounds. Lost Life Tokens reduce the number of 
actions the hero may take on his turn. 
Note: If a hero loses all of his Life Tokens, then that character has been lost 
in battle and is out for the rest of the game. The player chooses a new hero, 
places the hero in Monarch City and starts with 1 Quest Card and 2 Hero Cards.
 
 

Attack an Enemy General:…“Bring it on little one.” If a hero is in the same 
location as an Enemy General and all enemy minions there have been eliminated 
(or no minions were present to begin with), the hero can attack the General by 
playing any number of Hero Cards bearing that General’s portrait. The hero rolls 
one die for each die on the played Hero Cards (shown next to the General at the 
bottom of the Hero Card, some cards have 2 dice, most have 1). 
Note: Multiple hits are required to defeat Generals and players should not attack a 
General unless they have a good chance of success because the penalties related 
to failure can be crippling. Additionally, success against the Generals often requires 
that more than one hero attack the General at the same time (See page 10). 
General Character Card:
 
 	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
 Name of General
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Background
 Number that
 must be 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
Combat Skill
 rolled to 	
	
	
 score a hit	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
Failure Penalty
 
 Wound Path	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 		
 DEFEATED	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Major Wound
 Step-by-step Guide to Attacking a General:…“You will need it soft skin.” 
1)	 Be on the space with the General and eliminate all of the minions present.
2)	 Spend 1 action to initiate combat. This will also activate all other heroes in the 
location to join in the attack. (See Group Attacking a General page 10) 
3)	 Play Hero Cards that have the General’s portrait to establish the total number of 
dice to be rolled.
4)	 Check the General’s Combat Skill – some (like the Demon’s) take place prior to 
rolling the dice.
5)	 Roll dice equal to the number of dice on the cards played and advance the 
Wound Marker (towards the DEFEATED space) 1 space for each hit. The number 
required to hit is shown on the General’s Character Card. 
6)	 Defeating the General – “Not gonna happen.” If the successful attacks move 
the Wound Marker down to the skull space, the General is defeated.
7)	 If the General is defeated, do the following:
a.	 The hero receives the General’s Character Card and turns it over (this 
identifies the hero as a Slayer). The card represents both a Victory Point 
and the special Slayer ability – when the Slayer is in the same location as 
the minions of the defeated General, he may spend 1 action and defeat all 
the minions in that location without rolling dice.
b.	 The hero gains 3 Hero Cards as a reward.
c.	 Advance the War Status Token to the next box.

8)	 If the hero fails to defeat the General, do the following:
a.	 The hero must suffer the Hero Defeated Penalties on the General’s 
Character Card. 
b.	 The hero is moved to Monarch City, his bleeding body carried back to the 
King to heal and fight another day.
c.	 The General begins to heal its wounds based on the color of the space the 
Wound Marker was advanced to. 
Major Wound: If the Wound Marker is on a Red 
Space (a Major Wound), the General will not begin 
healing until a full round of turns by the heroes has 
been completed, with the player that attacked (or 
initiated a group attack on) the General completing 
a new turn prior to the General healing. 
Note: A General with a Major Wound will not 
advance if a Darkness Spreads Card is drawn while 
its Wound Marker is on a Red Space.
Generals’ Healing: Once a General is healing, it will heal at the rate of 1 
point at the end of each player’s turn.
Note: Sapphire heals all wounds immediately unless defeated, or unless her
skill is negated by a quest card.
 Each General has different combat skills as described below:
Lord Balazarg: When heroes are facing Lord Balazarg, the corruption 
of this creature is so great that it pulls at the very soul of the heroes. After 
deciding how many Red Cards will be used in battle, players must roll a 
die for each of those cards. A card is corrupted and lost (discarded without 
contributing to the attack) each time a 1 is rolled. 
Gorgutt the Savage:…“Gonna squash you under my heel as I lay 
waste to Monarch City.” Gorggut goes into a savage frenzy in combat, 
parrying blows and dealing death with two monstrous axes. In combat, 
any 1’s rolled by the heroes become parries for Gorgutt, each blocking a 
successful attack (regardless of the hero who rolled the 1 or the successful 
attack). 
Sapphire: The Dragon General can regenerate, making her difficult to 
defeat in battle. If not defeated, she immediately returns to full health. 
Varkolak: No re-rolls are allowed in battle with the Champion of the 
Undead.
Minor Wound: If the Wound 
Marker is on a light space, 
the General has only received 
minor wounds and will start 
healing at the end of the next 
player’s turn (the turn after 
the hero’s that attacked the 
General).
Minor Wound: If the Wound 
Marker is on a light space, 
the General has only received 
minor wounds and will start 
healing at the end of the next 
player’s turn (the turn after 
the hero’s that attacked the 
General).

Group Attacking a General: The best way to defeat a General is to attack it as a 
group. The way to do this is for multiple heroes to move onto the General’s location 
at the end of their turn and not initiate combat with the General. Keep in mind that if 
minions are present, they will attack and inflict wounds, reducing the hero’s number 
of active Life Tokens. When the current player moves his hero onto a space with a 
General that has other heroes present and spends an action to attack the General, the 
player “activates” the other heroes present on that location as well. The active player 
most likely will maneuver to land the final blow that fells the General and become the 
Slayer of that race, as it is worth a victory point for the player who achieves this. In 
addition to the Step-by-step Guide to Attacking a General, the following rules apply to 
Group Combat: 
	
1)	 The Player that activates combat determines the order in which each hero 
present will attack (heroes resolve their attack 1 hero at a time). That player 
can identify who attacks next after seeing the results of the attack by another 
player. 
2)	 All players must discard all the attack cards they have committed to the 
battle, even if they do not engage the General directly in combat.
3)	 The hero that lands the final blow (advancing the Wound Marker to the skull 
on the General’s Wound Track) becomes the Slayer of that General’s race and 
takes the General’s Character Card and turns it over to reveal descriptions of 
the Slayer Ability and the General’s Defeat. 
4)	 If the heroes win, all players present gain a bonus of 3 Hero Cards and the 
War Status advances 1 space.
5)	 If the heroes lose, all heroes suffer the Hero Defeated penalty noted on the 
General’s Character Card and are moved to Monarch City.
 Step 2 - Evening: The active player draws 2 Hero Cards and adds them to her hand. 
 Note: If she has more than 10 cards, she must discard down to 10 cards after drawing. 
 Step 3 – Night: Draw 1, 2 or 3 (depending on the War Status) Darkness 
 Spreads Cards and perform the following actions:
 1)	
Place Minions: The top portion of the typical (there are special cards as 
 well) Darkness Spreads Card shows 1 or 2 colored minions in each of two 
 locations. Add the appropriate number and color minions to the locations 
 identified. This placement may create an Overrun and Taint the Land (page 11).
 2)	
A General Advances: After placing minions, look at the Movement Section 
 (the bottom half) of the Darkness Spreads Card to determine if a General 
 advances along its path to Monarch City. If the General shown is one space 
 away from the location shown, then the General advances to the location on 
 the card and gains new minions (equal to the number shown next to its 
 portrait) at that location. Placement of these minions may also cause an 
 Overrun and Taint the Land condition. 
 Note: Generals always advance along their path toward Monarch City, 
 they never move away from the city.

	
	
Overruns and Tainted Land:…“YES!!!! This is my favorite part! This 
land is MY land!” The maximum number of minions that may exist in any 
location outside of Monarch City is 3. When a 4th minion is to be added to a 
location, the location becomes too destroyed for humanity to survive in that 
area and the land becomes Overrun and Tainted. Instead of adding the 4th 
minion, a Tainted Crystal is placed on that location and minions advance to 
surrounding locations. Add 1 minion of the same color that caused the overrun 
(which will also be the same color that is on the Darkness Spreads Card) to all 
adjacent (connected by a line) locations. A General does not count as a minion 
when determining Overruns and Tainted Land. During an overrun, any 
“overrun minions” that would increase the number of minions in an 
adjacent location beyond 3, Taint the land but they do NOT cause any 
additional overruns and no minions are added to the overrun locations 
that become Tainted. 
Important: It is possible for more than 1 Tainted Crystal to be added to a 
location and a Tainted location can still be the source of an Overrun. If a land 
has been Tainted and, during the Place Minions or A General Advances phase, 
a 4th minion is to be added to the Tainted location, another overrun occurs and 
another Tainted Crystal is added to the location. Therefore, the heroes cannot 
ignore the build-up of minions on a location after it has become Tainted, as it 
can be Tainted again and again. Inns may not be overrun or tainted.
Note: Demons cause land to Taint when a 3rd Demon minion is added to a 
location. All 3 must be Demon (Red) minions, not a mix with other enemy 
minions. 
Note: Monarch City does not cause overruns or Tainting, but if 5 minions are 
ever in Monarch City at the same time, the city falls and the heroes lose the 
game. …“Plan on it hero meat, your fabled city is falling to me!”
War Status: As the war progresses and the heroes defeat Enemy Generals, 
the remaining Generals press the attack even harder. The Game starts with 
the War Status Token in the first box – Early War.
Early War: In the early war, 1 Darkness Spreads Card is drawn in the Night 
Phase of the player’s turn and minions are placed and Generals advanced as 
indicated. When the first General is defeated, the War Status Token will be 
advanced to the 2nd box - Mid War.
Mid War: In the Mid War, the players draw 2 Darkness Spreads Cards in the 
Night Phase; the 1st card is used to place minions and advance a General, 
the second card is used only to advance a General. When the 2nd General is 
defeated, the token is advanced to the third box (the second box of Mid War). 
Card play remains the same as the players are still in Mid War. When the 3rd 
General is defeated, the token is advanced to the 4th box - Late War.
Late War: In the Late War, 3 Darkness Spreads Cards are drawn each turn. 
The first 2 cards are used to place minions and advance the remaining 
General. The 3rd card is used only to advance the General. 

Defenders of the Realm Cards:
Darkness Spreads Cards: The 
majority of the cards show 2 locations and 
either 1 or 2 minions that will be placed 
there. Additionally there are some special 
Darkness Spreads cards that should 
be noted – Orc Activity, All is Quiet, 
and the Monarch City Card.	
	
	
 
	
	
 
Each Card also has an A General Advances 
section at the bottom that identifies the General
to be moved and the location it may advance to A General Advances
(See A General Advances on page 10).
	Orc Activity:… “Fear my wrath weaklings! My Orcs will 
never stop until Monarch City falls!” There are two types of Orc 
Cards that cause them to multiply very quickly (Orc War Party and 
Orc Patrols). Follow the instructions on the Card to place the Orcs 
(much the same as regular Darkness Spreads Cards). 
Note: While easier to defeat, players need to be aware of how fast 
Orcs (Green minions) multiply and keep them at bay. The land can 
fall if all the Orcs are on the board at the same time.
All is Quiet: No new enemies appear and no 
Generals move when this card is drawn.
 
Example 1: In this example Balazarg is the active General. The 
location he is eligible to advance to is Raven Forest. If the Demon 
General is currently located at Scorpion Canyon he would advance to 
Raven Forest and 1 new Demon (Red) minion would be placed 
with him. If he were already at Raven Forest, Angel Tear Falls, or 
Bounty Bay, this card would have no effect on the A General Advances 
phase and Balazarg would not move or gain any new minions.
 Example 2: In this example, 1 Orc minion is added to each 
 	 Green location that is currently empty. In addition, 
 	
the Undead General (Varkolak) is activated and moved
one space forward along his path and 1 Undead (Black) minion 
is placed on the location he moves to. 
Location
Minions
to be
added

The Monarch City card: When this card is drawn, 1 minion 
of each color that is adjacent to Monarch City is added into the City. 
If 5 enemy minions are ever in Monarch City at the same time, the 
heroes lose the game. Therefore it is important to keep the locations 
around Monarch City free of enemy minions, especially if some are 
already in the city.
This card also forces the Hero and Darkness Spreads decks to be 
reshuffled. Any used Purple (Special) Hero Cards will not be reshuffled. 
Special cards are always discarded out of play when used.
Hero Cards: The Hero Cards are multipurpose cards and are often used in conjunction 
with an action (noted where appropriate in the action section). The majority have a 
location and a color with a special movement band at the top.
 
	
	
The Location is important in the 
following ways:
 Heal the Location if Tainted: When 
on a Tainted Land, discard a card of 
the same color as the Tainted Land 
to attempt to heal the land and 
remove 1 Tainted Crystal. 
 If your hero is on the location, you 
may discard the card to build a 
Magic Gate.
 If the movement band of the 
card has a gate picture, you may 
discard the card to move to any 
gate, or move to that location from 
anywhere.

Movement Bands on Cards
The movement band at the top of the card identifies that the card may be discarded to 
gain that type of movement. The cost is 1 Action. 
There are 3 movement possibilities: 
1.	 Travel by Horse (2 spaces) 
2.	 Fly by Eagle (4 Spaces)
3.	 Move by Gate, which lets you move to 
the location on the card, or any Gate.
 Travel By Horse Travel By Eagle Travel by Gate
	
	
	
 
	
	
	
 
Purple (Special) Hero Cards: 
These Cards can be played at any time, even during another 
player’s turn. Once played, they are removed from play and 
not shuffled back into the deck. Each of these cards is very 
powerful and can significantly help the heroes when used 
effectively. 
Note: The cards may be used in an attack against the 
General identified on the card. 
Depleted Hero Card Deck: If the deck has been 
depleted, reshuffle all the discarded Hero Cards except 
for the Purple (Special) Hero Cards.
Quest Cards: Each Player is given 1 Quest Card at the start of 
the game and draws a new one each time she completes a 
quest, fails a quest, or cannot achieve a quest because of game 
conditions (such as a defeated General that is to be scouted). 
Quests range in difficulty and reward. 
Note: Players may not discard a Quest because they do not like it. 
Note: Several quest cards say to place minions on the card to keep 
track of the hero’s progress. If, during Step 3-Night (Place Minions 
and A General Advances phases), there are no appropriately colored 
minions available from the pile beside the board, take minions from 
the quest card that has the most minions on that card and use 
them to fulfill the requirements of Step 3. As the war progresses, 
it becomes harder for heroes to spend as much time completing 
their quests for individual glory and this is one of the sacrifices the 
heroes must make. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discard to not draw any
Darkness Spreads Cards
this turn.
war banner of valor
Seek the War Banner along the 
banks of the Fire River.
Spend 1 action and roll 3 dice.
A roll of 5 or 6 on any of the 
dice succeeds.
Reward: Ignore the wounds and 
other effects of losing a battle 
to a General.

Variant - Want an Easier Game?: If the players are losing too 
often they can make one or more of the rule changes to make the game 
easier. It is suggested that you do not add multiple changes unless you 
continue to lose after making one change.
1)	 During setup, instead of drawing 3 & 3 Darkness Spreads Cards (for 
a total of 6) only draw 2 & 2 Darkness Spreads cards (so instead of 
30 minions on the board to start the game, there will be 24). 
2)	 Players suffer no penalty if they lose a battle against a General.
3)	 Start the Game with 3 Hero Cards per player.
4)	 Add 1 Life Token to each hero.
Variant - Want a More Difficult Game?: Your team has been 
too successful in defeating the game for your taste, and you want to 
increase the difficulty – try one or more of the following:
1)	 Allow Overruns and Tainting on the game set up. 
2)	 Reduce hero Life Tokens by 1.
3)	 Remove 1 to 6 Purple (Special) Hero Cards – the more you remove, 
the more difficult the game.
4)	 Remove some or all of the All is Quiet cards from the Darkness 
Spreads deck.
5)	 Remove 5 minions of each enemy type. 
 
 
 Game Designed by: Richard Launius
 Game Artwork: Larry Elmore
 Game testing: Asher Pinsler, Joe Vigil, Frank Branham, Steve Avery, 
 Darrell Simmons, Alex Simmons, Langley Kitchings, Conner Kitchings, 
 Ryan Launius, Brian Wilson, Sarah Wilson, Jason Maxwell, Mark Zoghby.
 Graphic Design: Sean Brown
 Editing: Keith Blume
 Sculpt Direction: Logan Blume
 
 Bard’s Tales by: Richard Launius, Jason Maxwell, and Keith Blume

 Actions (all Actions require the use of 1 Life Token unless otherwise noted): 
Movement by Foot: Move 1 space to an adjacent location (connected by
 a line). 
	
Movement by Horse: Move up to 2 locations away (connected by lines) by 
discarding a Hero Card with a Horse Icon on the top.
Movement by Eagle: Move up to 4 locations away (connected by lines) by 
discarding a Hero Card with an Eagle Icon on the top. 
Movement by Magic Gate: There are two ways to move by Magic Gate:
1.	 Discard a Hero Card with a Magic Gate icon and move to the location on the 
card or to any Magic Gate on the board. 
2.	 When there are multiple Magic Gates on the board, you may move from 
one Magic Gate to any other Magic Gate for a single action and no card is 
required.
Perform a Special Skill: Some heroes have unique skills that may require 1 
or more actions to perform. If a skill requires an action, it will be noted on the 
Hero Character Card. Otherwise, the skill can be executed without the use of an 
action. 
Build a Magic Gate: When a hero is on a location and also has a card matching 
that location, he may discard that card to build a Magic Gate. Place a Magic Gate 
token on that location to show that the gate has been built. 
Rumors at the Inn: A hero may spend up to 2 actions at an Inn to listen for 
rumors. When doing so, call out a card color (Red, Green, Blue, or Black) and 
draw 2 cards for each action spent listening for rumors. Keep all cards that 
match the called color, as well as any Purple (Special) cards that were drawn.
 
Heal the Land: If the hero is on a tainted location, discard a Hero Card that 
matches the location color and roll 2 dice. If a 5 or more is rolled on either die, 
the hero removes 1 Tainted Crystal from that location. Only 1 Tainted Crystal 
may be removed per action. 
Healing Wounds: Heroes may heal themselves. The number of Life 
Tokens recovered depends on the location. 
Engage Minions in Combat: Roll a die for each enemy minion in the same 
location as the hero. The dice rolled should match their target’s color. 
Attack an Enemy General: If a hero is in the same location as an Enemy 
General and all enemy minions there have been eliminated (or no minions were 
present to begin with), the hero can attack the General by playing any number 
of Hero Cards bearing that General’s portrait. The hero rolls one die for each die 
on the played Hero Cards (shown next to the General at the bottom of the Hero 
Card, some cards have 2 dice, most have 1).