TM

BLOOD AND FLAME
Terrinoth is in peril. The barony of Kell has already fallen, and 
the demon-tainted barbarians of the Uthuk Y’llan stalk the 
realm. In the Mistlands, the undead servants of Waiqar the 
Undying stir, venturing beyond their borders for the first time in 
memory. The Council of Barons cannot agree on which enemy is 
the graver threat, let alone on a course of action. 
And in the northern barony of Forthyn, the stage is set for the 
next great confrontation between Terrinoth and the forces of 
darkness…
Overview
Descent: Legends of the Dark is a cooperative game for one 
to four players. The players assume the roles of heroes who 
oppose evil throughout an expansive campaign, improving their 
abilities, slaying foes, exploring Terrinoth, and forging their own 
legend. Each quest is part of the Blood and Flame campaign, 
during which the heroes attempt to complete a series of 
objectives before succumbing to either their injuries or the 
enemy’s plans. 
As the heroes explore forbidden dungeons, dark forests, and 
ancient battlegrounds, they attempt to thwart the schemes 
of evil and gather power and experience. The heroes’ path is 
plagued with difficult choices that, by the end of the campaign, 
may transform the fate of Terrinoth.
To play this game, one player must download 
the free Descent: Legends of the Dark app on a 
compatible device. The app tracks and controls 
the enemies, map layout, hero inventory, and 
campaign progression, leaving the players free 
to focus on their heroes and the story they are 
experiencing. The app also allows the players 
to save their campaign to complete it over the 
course of many gaming sessions.
To download the app, search for Descent: Legends of the Dark 
on the Amazon™ Appstore, Apple iOS App Store™, Google 
Play™, or Steam®.
Assembly
Before playing for the first time, assemble the plastic figures, 
health dials, and terrain pieces following the instructions on the 
Component Assembly insert that is included in the game box.
Rules Structure
The purpose of this document is to teach players how to play 
Descent: Legends of the Dark. Read this document and stop at 
the “Campaign Rules” section, which is not necessary to begin 
playing the game.
This game includes an in-app Rules Reference 
that describes more detailed rules and 
exceptions. As questions arise during the 
game, consult the in-app Rules Reference from 
the app’s options menu.
App Store 
Options Menu 
Button

Components
1 : During your attack, 
afflict the enemy.
Knives. Quick.
thorntip knives
2 : During your attack or 
defense, if you are adjacent 
to another hero, add 1 .
Sword. Highmont. Quick.
Warden’s Blade
40 Weapon Cards
1 : During your defense, 
add 1  and focus 1 card.
Majestic. Plate. Sunforged.
HEAVY
Dawnwalker plate
During your or an 
adjacent hero’s defense, 
add 1 .
Moonforged. Plate. 
Duskplate
HEAVY
18 Armor Cards
At the start of each 
quest, gain 1 random 
Living. Restless.
Brew Basket
During your attack, 
if the enemy is already 
damaged, it suffers an 
additional 3 .
Menacing. Restless. Tainted. 
Bloodthirsty Bracers
12 Trinket Cards
MiasMa gRenade
During your turn, 
daze and doom an enemy 
within 4 spaces of you.
42 Consumable Cards
1 : Move an enemy or 
another hero 1 space away 
from you for each  on 
this card. Then discard 
all  from this card.
Skyborn.
Wings oF Wind
1 : Two heroes within 3 spaces 
of you may each prepare 1 card.
Leadership.
Rallying CRy
42 Skill Cards
After you interact, 
if an enemy is within 4 spaces 
of you, suffer 2  and 
terrify 1 card.
sCared
Major.
After you interact, if an 
enemy is within 4 spaces 
of you, suffer 2 .
10 Injury Cards
Hero Turn
During your turn, you may perform one 
maneuver and two additional actions:
• Explore to interact with terrain 
or a token.
• Fight to attack an enemy within range.
• Maneuver to gain movement points 
equal to your speed.
• Ready to flip a card.
• Unique action () given by a card.
Dice resulTs
 : Success
: Advantage - Place 1  to add 1 .
 : Surge - Resolve a  ability.
enemy statuses
Infection: When time passes, suffer 
1  for each infected card.
Terror: When time passes, suffer 
1  on each terrified card.
Scar: When a scarred card flips, 
suffer 2 . 
Prepare: During your turn, discard from a 
card to flip that card.
Focus: Discard to reroll 1 die.
The app automatically calculates these effects.
Afflicted: Before activating, the enemy 
suffers 4 damage.
Dazed: +10% secondary weapon effect chances.
Doomed: At the end of the round, only this 
status is removed. 
Enfeebled: –20% enemy attack damage.
Exposed: +20% hero attack damage.
Slowed: Speed reduced to 1.
4 Reference Cards
6 Hero Cards
Vaerix
+2 
0 
The Dragon-Hybrid Outcast
respite
Restoration.
2 : During your turn, you or an 
adjacent hero heals 2 .
“Our role is not yet played. 
You and I must survive.”
Light or Medium Armor
Add 1 , and any hero may 
12 Explore/Sight Tokens
80 Condition Tokens 
(16 of each type)
40 Plastic Figures 
(34 enemies, 6 heroes) 
and 1 Riser
18 Map Tiles
1 Component 
Assembly Insert
1 Lore Guide
16 Plastic ID Markers 
(4 of each color)
6 Underlays
46 Terrain Pieces
4 Health Dials
9 Custom Dice
56 Fatigue Tokens
Small Tables: I101-I303
Large Tables: F101-F303
Barricades: C101-C202
Archways: A101-A203
Cauldron: E101-E103
Lectern: M101-M104
E101
M103
E102
M102
E103
M101
M104
I101, I201, I301
I102, I202, I302
A101, A201
D102
D101
D104
D105
D106
D110
D109
D108
D107
D103
A102, A202
A103, A203
I103, I203, I303
F103, F203, F303
F101, F201, F301
Descent: Legends of the Dark Assembly Diagrams
: Assembly step arrow
: Indicates fold direction of a scored component
C101, C201
C102, C202
F102, F202, F302
Well: D101-D110
TM
8 Card Sleeves

Fundamental Concepts
This section contains the fundamental concepts for Descent: 
Legends in the Dark that provide context for players who are 
about to learn how to play the game.
Heroes
During a game, each player controls a hero that is represented 
by a hero card and a plastic figure. Each hero’s plastic figure 
indicates that hero’s position on the game map, and each hero 
card contains information about that hero, including their stats 
and unique abilities.
Only four heroes are available at the beginning of the 
campaign, but more heroes become available as the campaign 
progresses. Between games, players can choose to control 
different heroes, and for many quests, the app specifies heroes 
that players must control.
Weapon and Attack Cards
Each hero has two weapons that are represented by a pair of 
weapon cards. Each weapon has a standard side, which heroes 
use at the start of the campaign, and an upgraded side that 
heroes can unlock as the campaign progresses. The upgraded 
side has an upgrade icon () after “Weapon” in the lower-left 
corner.
Both of a hero’s weapon cards are stacked together and placed 
into a single card sleeve. This pair of sleeved weapon cards 
function as a single, double-sided attack card. During the 
game, a hero can flip their attack card to use the weapon on the 
other side.
Flipping Cards
During the game, a hero can flip their hero card, skill cards, and 
their attack card, which is made up of two weapon cards as 
described above.
Flipping a card changes the abilities and weapons that are 
available for a hero to use. Additionally, flipping a card removes 
all tokens that are on that card, which includes conditions and 
fatigue, all of which is described later.
During the game, players are challenged to efficiently manage 
their cards, making sure each one is flipped to the side they 
wish to use for a given situation.
+2 
Light Armor
Add 1 , and you may move 1  
from 1 card to another.
eMpOWer
1 : After you roll, 
convert 1  to 2 .
“My knowledge was sufficient. Now it is eternal.”
The Human Prodigy
Syrus
Syrus’s Hero Card and Figure
1 : During your attack or 
defense, if you are adjacent 
to another hero, add 1 .
Sword. Highmont. Quick.
Warden’s Blade
The upgrade () icon indicates that this is the 
upgraded version of the “Warden’s Blade.”
THE HEROES
The following four heroes are available at the start of the 
campaign:
•	 Brynn, the human avenger, leads the charge against her 
foes and stands ready to defend against their reprisal.
•	 Galaden, the elf huntsman, is adaptable and focused, 
able to deliver damage wherever it is needed.
•	 Syrus, the human prodigy, uses magic to manipulate his 
attacks and enemies with help from his phoenix.
•	 Vaerix, the dragon-hybrid outcast, heals the party and 
lashes out at their foes with draconic wrath.
The following two heroes become available as the 
campaign progresses:
•	 Chance, the hyrrinx rogue, uses stealth and high 
mobility to attack from unexpected directions and slink 
away unharmed.
•	 Kehli, the dwarf artificer, is a bold and curious hero who 
crafts unique inventions to help herself and her allies.
Galaden’s starting attack card is created so that the 
upgraded () sides of his two weapon cards are hidden.

The Descent: Legends in the Dark app guides the players 
through their campaign by providing narratives and objectives, 
revealing maps and enemies, and determining when heroes win 
or lose a quest. The app also saves their campaign progress and 
inventory.
The app has two primary screens: one that displays the map 
that the heroes are exploring and another that displays all of 
the enemies that are currently in play. 
Players can toggle between each of these screens by selecting 
the buttons in the upper-right corner. The current screen’s 
button is highlighted.
Both of these screens have numerous game functions that are 
described later.
Enemies
Enemies are the various monsters and villains that the heroes 
encounter during the game. Each enemy on the map is 
represented by a figure, and information about that enemy is 
tracked by the app. 
When an enemy spawns, the app creates an enemy bar, assigns 
that enemy a color that is used to distinguish it from other 
enemies of the same type, and shows where that enemy is 
placed on the map. 
Before an enemy figure is placed on the map, players must 
insert an ID marker of the assigned color into that figure’s base. 
ID markers also have notches for colorblind players (see 
“Colorblind Players” below).
Map Screen
Enemy Overview Screen
Toggle Buttons for Map Screen (left) 
and Enemy Overview Screen (right)
This enemy bar’s color is orange, so an orange ID 
marker is inserted into the enemy figure’s base.
COLORBLIND PLAYERS 
The side of each ID marker has one to four notches. If 
players cannot distinguish an enemy by its color, they 
should make sure that the number of notches that are 
exposed on the ID marker match the number of notches 
depicted on that enemy’s bar in the app.
.
This enemy’s bar and ID marker 
both display three notches.

Setup
To set up a campaign of Descent: Legends of the Dark, follow 
the steps presented in this section.
Launch App: Players launch the Descent: Legends of the 
Dark app and select “New Game.” The app guides players 
through a series of screens to create a save slot, select a 
difficulty setting, and choose starting characters.
Other than selecting a save slot, none of these choices 
are permanent. Players can adjust the difficulty setting at 
any time, and they can play different characters over the 
course of the campaign.
Single Player: If playing a single-player game, the player 
chooses and controls two heroes, but all other rules remain 
the same.
Gather Hero Components: Each player takes a reference 
card, a health dial, the plastic figure and hero card that 
match the hero they chose in the app, and that hero’s two 
starting weapon cards, as follows:
Brynn: Warden’s Blade, Weighted Warhammer
Galaden: Bloodwood Bow, Mirror Blades
Syrus: Crook’d Staff, Glimmering Wand
Vaerix: Ironthorn Warbell, Riverwatch Spear
Each player combines their starting weapons by placing 
one weapon on top of the other. The faces that have the 
upgrade () icon should face each other so they are not 
visible (see “Weapon and Attack Cards” on page 4). 
Then, the pair of cards is inserted into a card sleeve and 
treated as a single attack card during the game.
Then, each player sets up a play area in front of them 
where they place their gathered components. A hero can 
begin the game with either side of their hero card and 
attack card faceup.
Galaden’s Hero Card, Figure, Health Dial, 
and Starting Weapons
0 
Medium Armor
Add 1 . Then you may suffer 1  
to prepare 1 card.
light step
1 : During your turn, Shift 1.
“My family is gone. Their teachings are not.”
The Elf Huntsman
Galaden
1 : During your attack, 
add 3 . If there are no 
heroes adjacent to you, 
add 4  instead.
Blades. Quick.
mirror Blades
2 : During your attack, add 1 . 
If the enemy is 3 or more spaces 
away from you, reduce this 
ability’s cost by 1 .
Bow.
BloodWood BoW
Back of 
Attack Card
Front of 
Attack Card
2 : During your attack, add 2 . 
If the enemy is 3 or more spaces 
away from you, reduce this 
ability’s cost by 1 .
Bow.
BloodWood BoW
1 : During your attack, 
add 2 . If there are no 
heroes adjacent to you, 
add 3  instead.
Blades. Quick.
mirror Blades
enemy statuses
Infection: When time passes, suffer 
1  for each infected card.
Terror: When time passes, suffer 
1  on each terrified card.
Scar: When a scarred card flips, 
suffer 2 . 
Prepare: During your turn, discard from a 
card to flip that card.
Focus: Discard to reroll 1 die.
The app automatically calculates these effects.
Afflicted: Before activating, the enemy 
suffers 4 damage.
Dazed: +10% secondary weapon effect chances.
Doomed: At the end of the round, only this 
status is removed. 
Enfeebled: –20% enemy attack damage.
Exposed: +20% hero attack damage.
Slowed: Speed reduced to 1.
Reference Card

Set Health Dial: Each player sets their health dial to the 
number that matches the maximum health value on their 
hero card.
Create Supply: Separate all tokens by type and place them 
in piles to create the supply. Place the map tiles, terrain, 
enemy figures, consumable cards, and injury cards in the 
supply—the injury and consumable cards do not need to 
be shuffled. Return all other cards to the game box, as they 
are not used during the first quest.
Create the Starting Map: Follow the app’s instructions to 
set up the first map, placing map tiles, tokens, terrain, and 
figures.
A unique code is printed on each map tile to make it easy 
to find the correct tiles. Leave room in the play area to 
place additional map tiles during the game.
Galaden starts the game with nine health.
Maximum 
Health
After you interact, if an 
enemy is within 4 spaces 
of you, suffer 2 .
Injury Cards
Consumable Cards
Tile Code

Playing a Quest
A single game of Descent: Legends of the Dark represents one 
quest that is played over a series of rounds, and each round 
consists of two phases that players resolve in the following 
order: 
Hero Phase: During this phase, the heroes can move 
around the map, attack enemies, and interact with their 
environment.
Darkness Phase: During this phase, the app resolves the 
effects of time, enemies, and the quest.
After resolving the darkness phase, a new round begins, 
starting with the hero phase. Players continue to resolve game 
rounds in this manner until the quest ends.
Hero Phase
During the hero phase, the heroes choose the order in which 
they take their turns. This order can change from round to 
round. After all heroes have taken a turn, they select the “End 
Phase” button to proceed to the darkness phase. 
During their turn, each hero may perform up to three actions 
in any order: one maneuver action and two additional actions 
of their choice. A hero can perform the same action multiple 
times. For example, Brynn could perform a fight action 
followed by two maneuver actions.
The five actions a hero can choose from are as follows:
•	 Maneuver
•	 Fight
•	 Explore
•	 Ready
•	 Unique
Each of these actions is described in more detail over the next 
several pages.
Maneuver
The maneuver action allows a hero to move around the map. 
When a hero performs a maneuver action, they gain a number 
of movement points equal to their speed.
A hero can spend one movement point to move into an 
adjacent space. Map tiles are divided into spaces, and two 
spaces are adjacent if they share a border or corner.
A hero cannot move into a space that contains an enemy or 
a piece of 3D terrain, but they can move into a space that 
contains another hero if they can immediately move out of that 
space.
A hero can perform actions between spending movement 
points.
After a hero ends their turn, any movement points that they did 
not spend are lost. Unspent movement points do not carry over 
to a future turn. 
Impeded 
A hero is impeded if they are adjacent to an enemy. When a 
hero becomes impeded, they lose all movement points. When 
an impeded hero would gain more than one movement point, 
they gain only one instead. 
The Human Avenger
Brynn
Speed 
The hero’s space is adjacent to the 
eight highlighted spaces.

Sight Tokens
Sight tokens represent points of interest. As 
heroes approach them, they can expand the map, 
reveal new details, or trigger traps.
When a hero moves into or adjacent to a space that contains 
a sight token, they must activate the sight token immediately. 
To do so, they select and drag from their hero’s portrait to that 
sight token in the app. This does not use an action.
If an effect causes this movement to occur during the darkness 
phase, the hero resolves that sight token at the start of the next 
round. 
Sight Token
MOVEMENT EXAMPLE
Brynn wants to move adjacent to the nearby treasure chest so she can search it. Brynn performs a maneuver action. 
Her speed is “3,” so she gains three movement points.
Brynn spends her first movement point to move to the right.
She spends her second movement point to move diagonally into Syrus’s space.
She spends her third movement point to move to the right and immediately exit Syrus’s space. She needs to move farther, 
so she performs another maneuver action, gaining three more movement points.
She spends her fourth movement point to move adjacent to the chest. For her final action of the round, she performs an 
explore action to search the chest.
She spends her fifth movement point to move adjacent to the cauldron and ends her turn, forfeiting her last movement 
point. 
IMPEDED MOVEMENT EXAMPLE
After exploring the chest on her previous turn, Brynn wants to 
attack the wight. Brynn performs a maneuver action and gains three 
movement points.
She spends one movement point to move adjacent to the wight. 
This causes her to become impeded, so she loses all of her remaining 
movement points.
She uses her second action to attack the wight (see “Fight” on page 
10) but she does not defeat it, so she is still impeded.
She uses her last action for another maneuver action. Since she is still 
impeded, she gains only one movement point. She uses it to move 
away from the wight. 
Brynn moved adjacent to this sight token, so she 
must activate it before she continues her turn.
Brynn’s Speed

Fight
The fight action allows a hero to attack an enemy in an 
attempt to defeat it and remove it from the map. An example 
of a hero’s attack is on page 12.
The weapon that is faceup on a hero’s attack card is the 
weapon that a hero uses during an attack. When a hero attacks, 
they must choose and attack an enemy figure that is within 
range and in line of sight of their hero figure.
Range is used to determine if an enemy is within striking 
distance of a hero’s weapon. For all weapons, an enemy is 
within range of a hero if it is adjacent to that hero. For weapons 
that have the “Reach” keyword, an enemy is within range if it is 
adjacent or two spaces away from that hero.
If a hero is using a weapon that has a range value, the attack is 
a ranged attack. Heroes can perform ranged attacks against 
adjacent or non-adjacent enemies.
When attacking using a weapon that has a range value, the 
hero must determine the range to the enemy. To determine 
range, the hero counts the number of spaces between their 
space and the enemy’s space along the shortest path of 
adjacent spaces. The hero starts in a space that is adjacent to 
them and ends in the enemy’s space. If that number is equal to 
or less than the weapon’s range, the enemy is within range.
Line of Sight
Line of sight refers to what a figure can see. To determine line 
of sight, a hero traces an imaginary line from the center of a 
figure’s space to the center of another figure’s space. If the line 
is interrupted by map edges or spaces that contain blocking 
terrain, line of sight is blocked. The pieces of blocking terrain 
are shown on page 22.
The corners of spaces do not block line of sight. Also, figures do 
not block line of sight.
A figure cannot attack another figure if line of sight between 
them is blocked.
2 : During your attack, 
reroll 1 die.
Crossbow.
true aim crossBoW
Galaden is adjacent to the enemy on the right, so he can 
attack it with any weapon. The enemy on the left is three 
spaces away, so Galaden needs a weapon that has a range 
value of at least “3” to attack it.
Line of sight from the hero to enemy 2 is blocked by a tree, 
but it is not blocked to enemies 1 and 3.
LINE OF SIGHT TOOL
If a player is struggling to determine line of 
sight, they can select “Line of Sight” in the 
options menu. Then, the player selects any 
space in the app—this causes the app to 
highlight all of the spaces that are within 
line of sight of the selected space. The app 
also displays range from that space: red spaces are 
adjacent, orange spaces are two spaces away, and yellow 
spaces are three or more spaces away.
Options Menu
The selected space has unblocked line of sight to the 
highlighted spaces, but not to the spaces behind the door.

Hero Attacks
When a hero attacks an enemy, they use the app to select and 
drag from their hero’s portrait to the image of the enemy that 
they are attacking.
This opens the hero attack screen, where the hero indicates 
the weapon they are using (their faceup weapon) by selecting 
it in the app. Then, they roll the die that is displayed next to 
the attack icon on their hero card. 
Typically, the hero wants as many success () results as 
possible to damage the enemy. The hero can resolve each die 
icon as follows:
•	 Success (): The hero can spend each success to apply 
damage to the enemy.
•	 Advantage (): The hero can place fatigue to convert one 
advantage () result to one success () result for each 
fatigue that is placed. Fatigue is described on page 18.
•	 Surge (): The hero can spend surge () results to resolve 
surge abilities. Surge abilities provide heroes with various 
effects and are described on page 20. 
For each success () result the hero spends to apply damage, 
they select the “>” button to input that success into the app. 
After the hero has input the total number of successes, they 
select “Confirm.”
For each success, the enemy suffers damage (), which is 
automatically subtracted from its health. The amount of 
damage that the enemy suffers for each success is determined 
by the damage value of the weapon the hero used.
Enemy Defense and Abilities
Each enemy has a defense value displayed next to its health 
bar. Each time an enemy is attacked, the damage that it suffers 
is reduced by an amount between zero and its defense value. 
This is automatically calculated by the app.
Most enemies also have a defense ability that the heroes 
resolve when the enemy is attacked.
 Damage Types
Each weapon has one or more damage types 
shown on the left side of the card. Most enemies 
are weak to some damage types. During a hero’s 
attack, each success spent causes one additional 
damage for each of the weapon’s damage types 
that the enemy is weak to. This is calculated by 
the app. 
The damage types that an enemy is weak to are displayed as 
“?” until the weakness is discovered. The first time an enemy 
suffers damage of a type that they are weak to, that weakness 
is revealed for the duration of the campaign.
To attack the green bandit, Syrus drags from 
his portrait to that bandit’s image.
Galaden rolls one blue die during his attack.
Attack 
When the bandit is attacked, the app reduces the 
damage it suffers by a number between zero and two.
CRUSH
Crush 
Damage Type
This enemy is weak to weapons that have the anemos 
damage type. Their other weakness is unknown.
Bloodwood Bow has a damage value of “2.” With two 
successes, the enemy suffers four damage.
Damage 

HERO ATTACK EXAMPLE
Syrus performs a fight action to attack an enemy. His 
equipped weapon, “Glimmering Wand,” has a range 
value of “4,” so he must choose an enemy that is up to 
four spaces away from him.
Enemy 3 is not within four spaces of Syrus, so Syrus 
cannot attack it. Enemy 1 and 2 are within range, but line 
of sight to enemy 1 is blocked by the map edge, so Syrus 
can attack only enemy 2.
In the app, Syrus selects and drags from his hero portrait 
to enemy 2’s figure to start the attack.
When prompted, Syrus confirms he is using “Glimmering 
Wand.” Then, he rolls the orange die shown on his hero 
card, resulting in one success () and two advantage ().
Syrus places one fatigue on his faceup weapon to 
convert one advantage () to a success () for a total 
of two successes. He inputs two successes in the app by 
selecting the “>” button twice and selects “Confirm.”
6.	
The app calculates the result of the attack. Each success 
for “Glimmering Wand” does two damage. Since 
“Glimmering Wand” has the slash () damage type—
which the enemy is weak to—the enemy suffers one 
extra damage for each success, raising the total to six 
damage.
7.	
The enemy has a defense value of “2,” so the damage is 
randomly reduced by up to two. In this case, the damage 
is reduced by one, so the enemy suffers five damage, 
leaving it with 22 health.
8.	
The zealot's defense ability is also resolved. The app 
selects a random enemy, and when that enemy attacks 
next, the app will add two damage.
2 : After your attack, 
a hero may Shift 2.
Wand. Skyborn. 
glimmering Wand
 
 
 
 
=
 
 
 
 
 

Explore
The explore action allows a hero to search the environment and 
affect the tokens and 3D terrain on the map, which can 
progress and alter a quest’s narrative and provide the heroes 
with unique choices and experiences.
When a hero performs the explore action, they interact with a 
piece of 3D terrain or an explore token. That component must 
be adjacent to or in the same space as the hero’s figure. To 
interact, the player selects and drags from their hero’s portrait 
to the component they are interacting with and follows the 
instructions that the app provides.
Interacting with 3D terrain and tokens can produce a variety of 
effects such as performing tests, gaining items, and expanding 
the map, all of which is described later.
A hero can select any 3D terrain piece or token by tapping on it 
in the app. This allows a hero to review information about that 
terrain piece or token without performing an action.
Ready
The ready action allows a hero to flip one card in their play 
area. This lets the hero change their hero ability or weapon to 
something more useful for their current circumstances.
When a hero performs the ready action, they can flip their 
hero card, their attack card, or one of their skill cards. Skills are 
described on page 28. 
When a hero flips a card for any reason, they discard all tokens 
on that card. This is a great way for the hero to remove the 
hindering effects of fatigue tokens and some conditions.
Unique Actions ()
Many cards have abilities that are prefaced with an action () 
icon. The number preceding the action icon indicates how 
many actions the hero uses to perform the unique action.
Explore Token
3D Terrain Piece
Brynn explores the chest by dragging 
from her portrait to the chest.
2 : During an enemy’s 
activation, if it is adjacent 
to you, become the target. 
During your defense, add 1 .
Fellowship. Guardian.
taunt
2 : After you defeat an enemy, 
you or an adjacent hero may 
heal 2 .
 Marshal.
Field MediCine
This ability uses two of the hero’s actions.
2 : Attack an enemy 2 times. 
During each of these attacks, 
add 1 .

Darkness Phase
The darkness phase represents the passage of time, during 
which foes and other elements of the quest attempt to thwart 
the heroes’ goals. The app guides players through the darkness 
phase, but the steps are briefly described here:
Time Passes: Heroes suffer the effects of the “infected” 
and “terrified” conditions, which are described on page 
20. Also, each hero can discard one fatigue; fatigue is 
described on page 18.
Enemy Activation: The app activates each enemy on the 
map, one at a time, causing them to move and attack. 
Enemy activations are described on page 15.
Quest: The app may display messages about new events, 
place enemies on the map, update the heroes’ objectives, 
and more.
Tactics: Some enemies may plan to execute a powerful 
or cunning tactic for the next round. If they do, the app 
displays a message that hints at the enemy’s intent.
Winning and Losing
Each quest has its own objectives that are displayed at the top 
of the screen.
If the heroes complete the final objective of a quest, the heroes 
win and the quest ends.
If the final objective cannot be completed, or if any hero who 
has a major injury is wounded again, the heroes lose and the 
quest ends. Wounded heroes and injuries are described on 
page 18. 
When a quest ends, the heroes progress to the next quest. 
However, the outcome of the quest—whether the heroes won 
or lost—may affect future quests and other aspects of the 
campaign.

Activating Enemies
During the darkness phase, each enemy takes a turn activating. 
When an enemy activates, it typically moves toward a specific 
hero and attacks them. 
The order in which the enemies activate is determined by the 
app. When it is an enemy’s turn to activate, the app opens an 
activation screen that displays the picture and name of that 
enemy as well as other information the enemy uses for its 
activation.
Targeting
Each enemy wants to attack a hero during its activation. That 
hero is the enemy’s target and is displayed on its activation 
screen. When activating, the enemy moves so it is positioned to 
resolve an attack against that target if possible. 
If the enemy cannot attack the displayed target, the hero who 
is closest to the enemy becomes the target instead. If there are 
multiple heroes who are the closest, the hero among them with 
the least health becomes the target, and if there are multiple 
closest heroes who have the least health, the heroes choose 
the target of the attack from among the eligible options. 
If an enemy cannot attack any hero during its activation, that 
enemy moves toward the closest hero who has the least health.
Moving
The first thing an enemy does during its 
activation is move. When an enemy is activated, 
it gains movement points equal to its speed. If 
the enemy is impeded, it gains only one 
movement point instead.
Then, that enemy spends movement points to 
move to a space on the map where it can attack 
its target. An enemy that does not have a range 
value moves adjacent to its target. However, if 
an enemy does have a range value, it moves so it 
is a number of spaces away from its target equal 
to that range value, or as close to equal as possible. This may 
mean that the enemy moves away from its target if it is too 
close, or toward the target if it is too far away.
An enemy cannot move into a space that contains a hero or 
a piece of 3D terrain, but they can move into a space that 
contains another enemy if they immediately move out of that 
space.
Range and Line of Sight
An enemy that can attack from range must have line of sight 
to its target from the space it moves to. If an enemy does not 
have line of sight to its target from any space that is a number 
of spaces away from its target equal to its range, that enemy 
moves to a space that is as far from its target as possible while 
remaining within range and in line of sight. 
Line of sight and range are determined using the same rules 
described in the “Fight” section on page 10.
Impeding
Similarly to heroes, an enemy becomes impeded if it begins its 
activation in a space that is adjacent to a hero or if it moves into 
a space that is adjacent to a hero. 
Enemies prefer not to become impeded if possible. However, 
this preference is the final consideration after all other 
movement criteria are satisfied.
Enemy Activation Screen
Enemy 
Speed
Enemy 

Attacking
After an enemy moves, it attacks its target for an 
amount of damage equal to the damage value 
displayed on its activation screen. 
The target hero defends to reduce the amount 
of damage they suffer. To defend, the hero rolls 
the die that is displayed next to their defense icon on their hero 
card. Then, they may resolve each die icon as follows:
•	 Success (): The hero can spend each success to reduce the 
damage they would suffer by one.
•	 Advantage (): The hero can place fatigue to convert one 
advantage () result to one success () result for each 
fatigue that is placed. Fatigue is described on page 18.
•	 Surge (): The hero can spend surge () results to resolve 
surge abilities. Surge abilities provide heroes with various 
effects and are described on page 20.
After reducing damage, the hero suffers all remaining damage. 
To suffer damage, the hero rotates their health dial to decrease 
their health by the amount of damage suffered. The effects of 
being reduced to zero health are described on page 18.
Enemy Activation Abilities
Each enemy has an ability, such as the zealot’s “Ichor Lash,” 
that modifies their activation. When an enemy activates, the 
heroes read and apply the ability to the enemy’s activation.
Interrupt
The enemy activation screen has an “Interrupt” button that the 
heroes can select if they need to resolve effects that occur 
before or during an enemy activation.
When a hero selects the “Interrupt” button, the enemy 
activation screen closes, giving heroes access to the game’s 
main screens. When the heroes are ready to resume an 
enemy’s activation, they select the “Resume Activation” 
button. 
Damage 
Galaden rolls one black die during his defense.
Defense 
Galaden suffers four damage.
THE HEROIC ADVENTURE RULE
During enemy activations, the players should move and 
use enemy abilities in a way that best accomplishes the 
enemy’s instructions and avoids the enemy becoming 
impeded if possible. Otherwise, players are not required to 
make the enemies move in a way that optimally opposes 
the heroes.

ENEMY ACTIVATION EXAMPLE
The purple zealot activates. The zealot’s displayed target 
is Brynn, and it has a speed of “3” and a range of “3.”
The zealot is not impeded, so it gains three movement 
points. Since the zealot has a range of “3,” it wants to 
be exactly three spaces away from Brynn. Of the spaces 
that are three spaces away from Brynn, the zealot moves 
to the space with the green checkmark, where it has 
unblocked line of sight to Brynn and does not become 
impeded.
The zealot attacks Brynn. Brynn rolls a black die for her 
defense. She rolls one success () and one surge (). 
Because she rolled a surge, the zealot’s activation ability 
has no effect.
The zealot’s attack does five damage. Brynn’s one 
success reduces that damage to four. Brynn suffers four 
damage, rotating her health dial to reflect her current 
health.
The zealot’s activation ends after it attacks. The heroes 
select “Done” to proceed to the next enemy’s activation.
Might +2 
–
= 4

Damage and Fatigue
This section describes the rules for damaging heroes and 
enemies, and the rules for hero fatigue.
Hero Damage and Injuries
A hero’s health dial always displays their 
current health. When a hero heals (), they 
increase their health, but they cannot have 
more than their maximum health.
After a hero suffers one or more damage (), 
they decrease their health by that amount. If 
a hero’s health is reduced to zero, they are 
wounded. When a hero is wounded, they set their health dial 
to their maximum health and select their portrait in the app to 
view their hero information screen. Then, they select the 
“Wound Hero” button and follow the instructions that the app 
provides. 
If the hero is instructed to suffer an injury, they do so as 
follows:
•	 Minor Injury: The hero suffers a minor injury by taking the 
minor injury card specified by the app and placing it in their 
play area with the “Minor” side faceup. The hero reads the 
card’s effect and follows its instructions.
•	 Major Injury: The hero suffers a major injury by flipping 
their injury card so the “Major” side is faceup. The hero 
reads the card’s effect and follows its instructions.
If a hero with a major injury is wounded, the app typically 
informs the heroes that they have failed and the quest ends.
Enemy Damage and Defeat
When an enemy suffers damage from an attack, the app applies 
that damage automatically. If a hero’s ability directly damages 
an enemy, the hero selects that enemy in the enemy overview 
screen and manually reduces the enemy’s health using the “<” 
button. 
If an enemy’s health ever reaches zero, that enemy is defeated, 
and their figure is removed from the game map.
Fatigue ()
Fatigue is the result of a hero exerting additional effort during 
their quest. This effort can help a hero succeed at a crucial 
moment, but the fatigue they accumulate can hinder them if 
they do not manage it carefully.
Converting Advantage
When a hero rolls dice during an attack, 
defense, or test, they can convert advantage 
() results to success () results by placing 
fatigue tokens on their cards. For each fatigue 
token that is placed, the hero converts one 
advantage result to a success result. The hero 
can place each fatigue token on any of their cards that has a 
fatigue limit in the lower-right corner of the card. The fatigue 
limit indicates the maximum number of fatigue tokens that can 
be on that card.
Fatigue Abilities
If an ability is prefaced with a number and the fatigue () icon, 
it is a fatigue ability. To resolve a fatigue ability, a hero must 
place the number of fatigue tokens specified by the ability, 
and these tokens can only be placed on the card that has the 
ability. If the number of tokens that would be on the card 
exceeds its fatigue limit, that ability cannot be resolved.
If an “X” precedes the fatigue () icon, the hero may place any 
number of fatigue on the card as long as they do not exceed its 
fatigue limit.
Suffering Fatigue
Additionally, some game effects may require a hero to “suffer” 
fatigue. Unless specified otherwise, when a hero suffers fatigue, 
they must place the specified number of fatigue tokens on any 
of their cards that has a fatigue limit without exceeding that 
limit. This fatigue can be spread across multiple cards. When 
suffering fatigue, for each fatigue token that a hero cannot 
place on a card, they suffer one damage instead. 
Maximum Health 
on Hero Card
sCared
Major.
Minor Injury Card
Major Injury Card
Direct Damage Input on Enemy Information Screen
Fatigue Token
To use this ability, the hero must place two fatigue tokens on 
this card. The card’s fatigue limit is “3,” so the ability cannot 
be used if there are already two or more fatigue tokens on it.
2 : During an enemy’s 
activation, if it is adjacent 
to you, become the target. 
During your defense, add 1 .
Limit
Ability

Tests
When heroes interact with terrain and tokens on the map, they 
often are instructed to perform a test. Each test requires a 
hero to use one of the stats that is displayed on their hero card: 
might, agility, insight, or will. Each stat can have a positive (+) or 
negative (–) modifier that is applied to all tests of that stat.
When a hero is instructed to perform a test of a specific stat, 
they roll two black dice. Then, they apply the modifier to the 
number of successes they rolled. 
The total number of successes after modifiers are applied 
determines the outcome. There are two types of test:
•	 Some tests require the hero to input the number of 
successes in the app. Then, the app provides the outcome 
of the test. The successes for some of these tests are 
cumulative—the heroes can perform the test multiple times, 
and the app tracks the total number of successes.
•	 Some tests provide a number that indicates how many 
successes are required to pass the test (e.g., “Test might 
6”). If the hero has successes equal to or greater than 
the required number, they pass the test. Otherwise, 
they fail the test. After the hero selects “Pass” or 
“Fail” as appropriate, the app provides the hero 
with the outcome.
While performing a test, the hero can spend surge () icons to 
resolve surge abilities and can place fatigue to convert 
advantage () results to success () results.
Negating
The app may grant a hero the chance to negate damage or 
fatigue before they suffer it. When this occurs, the hero is 
presented with a stat to test (e.g., “Each hero suffers 4 damage; 
might negates.”). Before suffering the damage or fatigue, 
the hero may test the indicated stat, and each success () 
produced during that test prevents one damage or fatigue.
Brynn tests will and rolls five successes. She applies her will 
modifier, resulting in a final total of six successes.
Might +2 
This hero tested might and rolled three successes.

Hero Effects
This section describes abilities and effects pertaining to heroes.
Abilities
Most of the cards in a hero’s play area have abilities. Each 
ability describes when and how it is resolved.
When a hero resolves an ability, it cannot affect other heroes 
unless the ability specifies otherwise. For example, if an ability 
reads “1 : Focus 1 card,” the hero resolving that ability cannot 
place a focus token on another hero’s card.
Surge Abilities
A surge ability is any ability that is prefaced by a surge () 
icon. Many cards have surge abilities, including all hero cards. A 
hero can use their surge abilities any time they roll a die. To use 
a surge ability, a hero spends a surge icon from one of their die 
results and then resolves the ability’s effect. Each surge ability 
can be used only once per roll.
Rerolling Dice
Some abilities allow heroes to reroll dice. Reroll abilities must 
be used before any die results are resolved. If a hero has 
multiple reroll abilities, they can reroll multiple dice or reroll 
any dice multiple times, using their rerolls as they choose.
Using Consumables
A consumable is an item that provides 
an immediate benefit. Each consumable 
describes when it can be used and what 
it does. After it is used, it is set aside and 
cannot be used again during that quest.
Keywords
Heroes and enemies use abilities that are presented as 
keywords. A keyword is a shorthand for an effect that appears 
frequently. The rules for each keyword are as follows:
•	 Charge: After a card is flipped (which includes when it is 
placed in a hero’s play area at the start of a quest), if the 
faceup side of that card has the “Charge” keyword, the 
type and number of tokens specified by the keyword are 
placed on the card. When there are no tokens of that type 
on that card, that card is flipped.
For example, if a hero flips a card and the ability on the 
faceup side reads, “Charge: Prepare 2,” the hero places two 
prepare tokens on that card. When the hero spends the last 
of that card’s prepare tokens, the hero immediately flips 
that card. 
•	 Reach: A weapon with this keyword can be used to attack 
a figure that is up to two spaces away (if line of sight is not 
blocked).
•	 Reveal: After a card is flipped (which includes when it 
is placed in a hero’s play area at the start of a quest), if 
the faceup side of that card has the “Reveal” keyword, 
the effect that follows the keyword must be resolved 
immediately.
•	 Shift: This keyword allows a figure to move up to the 
number of spaces specified. When a figure is moved in this 
way, it ignores the rules of impeding, but it still obeys all 
terrain rules.
Hero conditions are positive and negative effects represented 
by condition tokens that are placed on cards. If an effect 
instructs a hero to “infect,” “terrify,” “scar,” “focus,” or 
“prepare” a card, that hero places a condition token of the 
appropriate type on that card. For example, if a hero is 
instructed to “focus” their hero card, they gain a focus token 
and place it on their hero card.
If a card is not specified, the hero can place the token on their 
hero card, attack card, or any of their skill cards.
When a card would gain a condition but already has a token of 
that type, the card cannot gain that condition. Resolving the 
“charge” keyword is an exception to this rule.
When a hero flips a card, all tokens on that card are returned to 
the supply.
Each condition has a unique effect, as follows:
Infected: When time passes during the darkness 
phase, the hero suffers damage equal to the number 
of infection tokens on their cards.
Terrified: When time passes during the darkness 
phase, the hero suffers one fatigue on each of their 
cards that has a terrify token on it.
Scarred: When a hero flips a card that has a scar 
token on it, that hero suffers two damage.
Focused: During an attack, defense, or test, a hero 
may discard a focus token from a card to reroll one 
of their dice.
Prepared: During their turn, a hero may discard a 
prepare token from one of their cards to flip that 
card without performing a ready action.
Surge Ability on Hero Card
Li ht
M di
A
Add 1 , and any hero may 
Consumable Card

Additional Enemy Rules
This section describes additional rules pertaining to enemies. 
Enemy activation is described on page 15.
Placing Enemies
When an enemy spawns, the app 
displays the enemy in the space 
where the heroes should place the 
enemy's figure on the map. If that 
space is already occupied by a figure, 
the heroes move the existing figure 
to the nearest space of their choice.
Enemy Levels
Each enemy has a level that indicates 
the strength of that particular figure. 
The enemy’s level is displayed in the 
app on the enemy screen. Higher-
level enemies have more health and 
defense, and they have stronger 
attacks and abilities.
Enemy Statuses
Enemy statuses are negative effects that are tracked in the app. 
If a hero causes an enemy to suffer a status, the hero applies it 
by selecting the enemy in the enemy overview screen and 
selecting the appropriate status.
Enemy statuses are resolved automatically by the app and 
are removed by the app at the end of each round. An enemy 
cannot suffer a status that it already has.
The app resolves each status as follows, and all percentage 
calculations are rounded up.
•	 Afflicted: During the darkness phase, each afflicted enemy 
suffers four damage.
•	 Dazed: When a hero attacks a dazed enemy, the secondary 
abilities on the hero’s weapon are 10% more likely to be 
used (secondary abilities are explained on page 27).
•	 Doomed: At the end of the round, a doomed enemy’s 
“Doomed” status is removed, but all of its other statuses 
remain on the enemy for another round.
•	 Enfeebled: An enfeebled enemy’s attack damage is reduced 
by 20%.
•	 Exposed: An exposed enemy suffers 20% more damage 
from attacks. 
•	 Slowed: A slowed enemy’s speed is reduced to one.
Small and Large Enemies
Enemy figures that occupy one space are small. Enemy figures 
that occupy more than one space are large. When a large 
enemy moves, the heroes choose one space that is adjacent 
to a space that the large enemy occupies. Then, they move the 
enemy so that any part of its base occupies the chosen space. 
All other movement rules apply.
When determining line of sight for large enemies, a path can be 
traced to and from the center of any space that the large 
enemy occupies. Additionally, when determining range to or 
from a large enemy, heroes can count from any space that the 
large enemy occupies.
Berserker Spawning in App
Enemy Level
The large enemy can move adjacent to both 
heroes by spending two movement points.
RISER
The riser is used to prevent a large enemy from tilting on a 
staircase. If a large enemy figure ends its movement so that 
it hangs over a staircase step (or over the two spaces in 
front of that staircase), place the riser under the 
unsupported part of the figure.

Terrain
Terrain represents natural elements, such as water, lava, 
and trees, as well as objects such as treasure chests, shelves, 
and gates. Some terrain is represented as underlays, which 
are described on the next page; however, most terrain is 
represented by 3D punchboard.
Heroes can perform an explore action to interact with 3D 
terrain, and those interactions may include opening a door or 
a treasure chest, springing traps, or discovering recipes and 
harvesting materials.
The heroes can select a piece of 3D terrain in the app to display 
information about that terrain.
Terrain and Movement
Heroes and enemies cannot move into a space that contains 
a piece of 3D terrain unless a rule or effect specifically states 
otherwise (e.g., the rules for staircases). Figures can move 
diagonally between two spaces that contain 3D terrain.
Blocking Terrain
The 3D terrain pieces shown below are blocking terrain. 
This terrain blocks line of sight, and heroes cannot count range 
through blocking terrain.
Barricades
Barricades are dangerous to heroes and 
enemies alike. 
If a hero attacks an enemy that is adjacent 
to a barricade, the hero adds one success to 
their attack.
If an enemy attacks a hero who is adjacent to a barricade, the 
enemy adds one damage to its attack.
Tree
Dragon 
Statue
Door
Pillar 
(short and tall)
Shelf

Archways
An archway is a piece of terrain that consists of two pillars and 
an arch. The spaces that are occupied by an archway’s pillars 
prevent movement and block line of sight. Figures can move 
into and trace line of sight through the two spaces between the 
pillars.
If a figure is too tall or too wide to fit underneath an archway, 
players should remove the archway until the figure is no longer 
positioned underneath it. It may be helpful to place a pillar or 
token on the spaces occupied by the archway’s pillars to remind 
players that they cannot move or trace line of sight through 
those spaces.
Underlays 
Some terrain is printed on sheets that are placed partially 
under map tiles. When placing this terrain, it is important that 
only the spaces shown in the app are exposed.
The spaces on underlays are adjacent to spaces that they share 
a border or corner with, and heroes and enemies can move into 
underlay spaces normally. Each type of underlay has unique 
effects for both heroes and enemies, as follows:
Embers: If a hero moves into an ember space, they scar 
one of their cards. If an enemy moves into an ember 
space, the enemy becomes afflicted and doomed.
Poison: If a hero moves into a poison space, they infect 
one of their cards. If an enemy moves into a poison 
space, the enemy becomes enfeebled.
Spikes: If a hero or enemy moves into a spike space, 
they become impeded and suffer two damage.
Water: When spending movement points to move out 
of a water space, a hero or enemy must spend one 
additional movement point.
The heroes can select an underlay in the app to display a 
reminder of this information.
Heroes and enemies can move and attack 
through the two spaces under the arch.
Water Underlay under a Map Tile

Elevation
Maps frequently have multiple levels of elevation. When 
placing tiles that are elevated, those tiles are supported by 
inserting them into pillars. 
Each pillar can attach to a map tile in two ways, either using a 
notch that depicts a gargoyle or a notch that does not depict a 
gargoyle. When constructing any elevated portion of the map, 
reference the app to ensure that the pillars are oriented the 
same way that the app displays.
Starting from the tile on the table, each level of elevation is 
higher than the previous level by approximately the height of 
one staircase (or the distance to the next notch on a pillar).
Staircases
Figures cannot move directly upward an entire level (i.e., from 
a level-1 map tile to a level-2 map tile). Instead, they must use a 
staircase. Each staircase has three steps.
The bottom and middle steps are between the levels bridged by 
the staircase, so a figure can move from the lower level's map 
tile to those steps, or from those steps to the higher level's tile.
The top step is at the same level as the higher level's map tile 
(even if that tile is resting on the top step). Thus, a figure cannot 
move directly to the top step from the lower level's map tile.
Downward Movement
In addition to using staircases, heroes and enemies can move 
downward any number of levels by moving off a tile edge. For 
the purposes of downward movement, any spaces that would 
be adjacent to each other if the map tiles of all levels were 
flattened are treated as adjacent. The best way for players to 
assess this is by looking at the map from overhead.
Elevation and Attacks
Heroes and enemies can trace line of sight and determine range 
up and down elevation as if all levels were flattened. As such, 
heroes and enemies can attack each other from above or 
below. 
The app instructs the player to insert this tile as shown, 
with the gargoyle head side gripping the tile.
Gargoyle 
on Pillar
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
The highlighted spaces are lower than the hero’s space, 
and the hero can move to any of them.
To measure line of sight and range to this enemy, the 
hero treats themself as being at the same elevation as 
the enemy.

Overhangs 
An overhang is a portion of a tile that exists one or more 
levels directly above a tile that is below it. Both heroes and 
enemies can move into a space that is underneath an overhang. 
However, if a figure is too large to fit under an overhang—that 
is, if the figure cannot stand normally without touching the tile 
above it—that figure cannot move or be moved into that space.
Overhangs and Line of Sight
Overhangs may or may not block line of sight between two 
figures. Generally, a figure can trace line of sight to another 
figure that is under an overhang if the line traces through 
a space on the lower figure’s level that does not have an 
overhang above it. Players are encouraged to use the line of 
sight tool in the app. For detailed rules and examples of line 
of sight with overhangs, players can consult the in-app Rules 
Reference.
Overhangs and Range
When determining range between two spaces on different 
levels, heroes count range through adjacent spaces as normal 
(see “Range” on page 10). When counting range, heroes can 
count up and down levels. For detailed rules about range with 
overhangs, players can consult the in-app Rules Reference. 
Because some effects do not require line of sight, it is possible 
for a figure or space to be in range of effects whose origin is 
directly above or beneath them.
Syrus stands under an overhang.
Vaerix has line of sight to the enemy on the right, and he can attack it using a weapon that has a range 
of “6” or greater. Vaerix cannot attack the enemy on the left because line of sight is blocked; however, 
that enemy can be affected by abilities that target enemies that are within three spaces of Vaerix.

Campaign Rules
The rules presented in this section are not necessary to 
begin playing the game. When the heroes gain access to the 
campaign map in the app, they should read the rules presented 
in this section and continue the campaign.
Early in the campaign, the heroes gain access to additional 
features in the app. This includes the opportunity to craft 
items, upgrade equipment, and acquire skill cards. These 
opportunities are available in the city of Frostgate, where the 
heroes return after most quests.
Equipment
The weapons and items that the heroes use throughout their 
campaign are referred to as equipment. Each hero begins the 
game with two weapons, and as the campaign progresses, 
the heroes can find and craft different weapons in addition to 
armor, trinkets, and consumables.
The heroes are collectively referred to as a party, and the 
equipment that the party has access to is tracked in the app. 
The amount of equipment that the heroes can have in their 
inventory is limitless; however, before embarking on a quest, 
each hero chooses a finite number of weapons and items to 
equip, as follows:
•	 Two weapons (creating one attack card)
•	 One armor
•	 One trinket
•	 Three consumables
All equipment cards are double-sided with one side showing 
the standard version of the equipment and one side showing its 
upgraded version. Each hero places their chosen equipment in 
their play area with the standard side faceup. If the equipment 
has been upgraded, they place it with the upgraded side faceup 
instead. The rules for upgrading equipment are described in 
“Crafting and Upgrading” on page 27.
Armor
Armor is used to increase a hero’s health 
and defense and can aid in a hero’s 
survival in other ways.
Each armor card has an ability that 
describes when it can be used and how 
its effect is resolved. In addition to an 
ability, armor may increase a hero’s maximum health and 
provide additional die results or even dice when defending 
against attacks. If armor increases a hero’s maximum health, 
that hero treats the health value on their hero card as if it was 
increased by the amount that the armor specifies.
Armor Restrictions
Each armor card indicates whether it is light, medium, or heavy 
armor. A hero cannot equip any armor type that is not 
presented on their hero card.
Trinkets
A trinket provides effects to the hero 
who has it equipped. The app manages 
the effects of all equipped trinkets 
automatically; however, when a hero 
equips a trinket, they still place that 
trinket’s card in their play area as a 
reminder of its effect. 
Runes
During the campaign, it is possible for a hero 
to find a rune. Some runes are trinkets, while 
others are weapons that do not have a hero 
restriction—any hero can equip them.
TRINKET 
Upgraded () Side
Standard Side
Increase your speed by 1.
Leather. Restless.
wayfarer’s leather
MEDIUM
Armor Card
One Additional Success () 
When Defending
Maximum Health 
Increased by One
Armor Type on Hero Card (left) and Armor Card (right)
Light or Medium Armor
,
y
y
MEDIUM
During your attack, 
if the enemy is already 
damaged, it suffers an 
additional 3 .
Menacing. Restless. Tainted. 
Bloodthirsty Bracers
Trinket Card
1 : Move each other figure that 
is within 3 spaces of you 2 spaces. 
Then daze each enemy that moved.
Costs 1 XP to equip.
AQUOS
Rune. 
ice storm
Rune Card

Consumables
Consumables provide unique effects, 
each of which is described on the card. 
The ability of each consumable explains 
when it can be used. After using a 
consumable, a hero removes it from 
their play area. 
When crafting, the heroes can create batches of consumables, 
which allow heroes to choose those consumables for all future 
quests. A hero cannot equip multiple copies of the same 
There are three types of consumables:
•	 Common: There are four copies of each common 
•	 Limited: There are two copies of each limited consumable.
These can be used only by specific heroes, who are listed on 
the card.
•	 Unique: There is one copy of each unique consumable. 
These are powerful brews that can only be found during 
quests.
Weapon Parts
Weapons are made up of three parts. 
The first part dictates which card the 
hero uses. The other two provide the 
weapon with secondary abilities.
Many of these abilities have a percent 
chance of occurring each time the hero 
attacks; they are calculated and resolved 
by the app automatically. Other abilities 
that may affect heroes or the map 
display additional reminder text at the 
appropriate time.
Traits
Many cards contain traits such as “Leadership” or “Spear” that 
are presented below their card name. Traits have no inherent 
effects; however, other game effects may refer to cards that 
have those traits. 
If an effect is referencing a card with a trait, it is only 
referencing the faceup side of that card.
Crafting and Upgrading 
Throughout the campaign heroes gain the following resources: 
gold, materials, essences, and recipes. All of these resources 
are shared among the heroes and are tracked by the app. The 
heroes can use these resources between quests to craft new 
equipment and upgrade existing equipment. 
Gold
Gold is the primary currency of Terrinoth. 
When the heroes visit the city of Frostgate, 
they can spend gold to purchase materials 
used for crafting. Some quests and events 
also provide opportunities to spend gold. 
Materials and Essences
The primary resources that heroes need to craft and upgrade 
equipment are materials and essences. Materials are a 
common resource that heroes can either find through 
exploration or purchase in the city using gold. These include 
metal, bone, leather, cloth, minerals, herbs, and curios. 
Essences are rare and represent the components that make up 
the fabric of reality, such as ignos (fire) and anemos (air). 
Recipes
Throughout the campaign, the heroes gain recipes. Each recipe 
provides a hero with a list of materials and essences needed to 
craft a specific piece of equipment. To craft that equipment, the 
hero combines the listed materials with the recipe in the 
crafthall, which the heroes can visit between quests. After 
crafting a piece of equipment, the recipe and the materials that 
were combined with it are spent and automatically removed 
from the party’s inventory. Any equipment that is crafted 
becomes part of the party’s inventory for the remainder of the 
campaign, including consumables.
There are two recipes for 
each piece of equipment. 
The first recipe that is used 
crafts the equipment and it 
becomes available for the 
heroes to use during quests. 
The second recipe that is used 
upgrades the equipment, 
which allows the heroes to 
use the upgraded version.
Consumable Card
First Weapon Part

The City Screen
Frostgate is one of the Free Cities of the kingdom of Terrinoth. 
While not subject to the barony of Forthyn, it exists within its 
borders and is both an ally and rival. 
The city is home to the heroes during the campaign, and they 
return to it between quests. They can visit various locations 
to buy materials and craft equipment, as well as gather 
information from the residents of the bustling metropolis. 
The city has three featured locations that the heroes can visit: 
Crafthall
An important way that the heroes can gain power 
throughout the campaign is to craft and upgrade 
equipment. The crafthall allows heroes to spend the 
recipes, materials, and essences they have gained to 
craft and upgrade equipment.
Armory
The armory allows the heroes to modify the parts of 
their weapons so they can optimize for their 
upcoming quest, explore new strategies, and 
customize to their play style. 
Shop
The shop contains materials, recipes, and sometimes 
equipment that can be purchased for gold. 
Additionally, materials can be sold for gold.
Events 
Events can appear in the city and on the campaign map and 
represent a variety of locations, people, and occurrences. To 
resolve an event, the heroes select the event in the app and 
follow the instructions. Some events require the heroes to 
travel to a particular destination. Events advance the narrative 
and provide the heroes with rewards and other surprises.
Regular: This type of event can appear in the city and 
on the campaign map. Heroes can resolve the event by 
selecting it.
Travel: This type of event can appear on the campaign 
map. Heroes can travel to that event and resolve it by 
selecting it.
Feats
Each hero has unique feats that they can complete to progress 
their personal growth. A hero's feats are tracked by the app, 
which indicates their progress and notifies them when a feat is 
completed. After a feat is completed, the hero claims the 
reward shown, such as a new skill or an exclusive recipe, and 
selects a new feat. 
Skills and Experience
As heroes progress through the campaign, they automatically 
unlock skills and gain experience (xp), both of which are 
tracked by the app. Skills provide a hero with abilities that are 
resolved as described on the skill cards. At the start of each 
quest, heroes choose which skills to equip. The combined cost 
of a hero’s equipped skills cannot excede the hero’s experience. 
A hero can equip unlocked skills that depict that hero’s image in 
the lower-left corner.
Similar to hero cards, skill cards are double-sided, have fatigue 
limits, and can be flipped during play.
City Screen
Experience Cost
Hero Restriction
2 XP

Virtues
Each hero has two attributes that represent their primary 
virtues. These are unique, hero-specific attributes that the app 
uses to track a hero’s narrative choices.
During the story, heroes make choices that may increase their 
virtues. Virtues have no inherent effects, but the app uses them 
to determine exclusive outcomes and choices for a hero.
Note that increasing both attributes is just as viable and useful 
to the app as focusing on a single attribute, so players can make 
their choices based on the story, gameplay, or how they would 
like their hero to grow. 
 Campaign Map
The campaign map displays the barony of Forthyn 
and a glimpse into the regions beyond its borders. 
While in the city, the heroes can access the 
campaign map by selecting the City Exit button. 
The campaign map allows the heroes to view 
quests and events that are available to them. 
Quests
Quests on the campaign map are indicated by a quest icon. The 
heroes can select a quest to view a short description about it:
Campaign Quests: These quests progress the 
campaign’s story whether the heroes win or lose. 
These quests often focus on a specific hero.
Side Quests: These quests are optional but offer 
additional rewards and story. Each side quest can be 
attempted once, and then is removed from the map. 
When the heroes are ready to play another quest, they choose 
a quest from the map and select the “Prepare” button. 
Preparing
After a quest is selected, each player must choose a hero for 
that quest. Players may choose a different arrangement of 
heroes each time they play, but many quests indicate a 
required hero.
After selecting their heroes, each player chooses their weapons 
and trinket in the Hero Loadout screen. They also choose their 
armor, consumables, and skills for the upcoming quest, 
following the restrictions described in the previous sections. 
Then, they select “Embark” and the quest begins.
Saving a Campaign
Players can save their campaign at any time by selecting “Save 
& Quit” from the options menu. If players choose to save their 
game during a quest, it is important that the heroes record the 
location of all figures on the map as well as the arrangement of 
their play areas—this includes the types and orientation (what 
is faceup/facedown) of cards, the placement of tokens, and 
their current health.
Continuing a Campaign
To continue a campaign, the players select the “Load Game” 
button on the app’s title screen. Then, they select the 
appropriate save slot for the campaign that is being continued.
Players can set up the supply by following step four of “Setup” 
on page 7. After players select their heroes, they gather 
their hero components and set their health dials. Then, they 
select their next quest in the app and select “Embark.”
City Exit 
Button
Campaign Map Screen
Brynn’s portrait has a lock icon, which means she is 
required for the “The Treasure of Davin Throm” quest.
The hero loadout screen allows heroes to view 
and equip their weapons and trinkets.

 Clarifications
This section clarifies some common language and rules. Entries 
are organized alphabetically by topic. The Rules Reference in 
the app provides comprehensive details for all rules, including 
the clarifications presented here.
Card Language
•	 When an ability refers to a “roll,” it refers to any situation in 
which a hero rolls one or more dice, such as when attacking, 
defending, or performing a test.
•	 If a component moves “toward” another component, each 
space that the moving component moves into must reduce 
the distance between both components.
•	 If a component moves “away” from another component, 
each space that the moving component moves into must 
increase the distance between both components.
•	 If an ability uses the word “consecutive,” it is referring to 
a series of contiguous spaces in which the next space in the 
series is adjacent to the previous space.
•	 If an ability instructs a hero to “swap” two components, 
each component is placed where the other component was 
previously.
•	 If an ability uses the word “collectively,” that ability affects 
the party as a whole instead of an individual hero. The party 
must decide how the effect is divided among the heroes.
Conditions 
•	 If a hero has a choice of where to place a condition token, 
they cannot place it on a card that already has that type of 
token on it.
•	 When a hero flips a card, all tokens that are on that card 
are discarded, even condition tokens that provide positive 
effects.
•	 A card that has a fatigue limit of “0” can have fatigue placed 
on it if an ability increases that card’s fatigue limit.
Health
•	 A hero cannot heal above their maximum health.
•	 If a hero suffers an amount of damage that would reduce 
their health below zero, that damage reduces their health to 
zero instead.
Hero Turns
•	 A hero can still spend movement points and use abilities 
after performing all of their actions. The hero’s turn does 
not end until they declare it has ended.
Staircases
•	 Some maps are constructed with a map tile resting on the 
top step of a staircase. The spaces resting on the top step 
are treated as part of that step.
•	 Heroes can tap on objects in the app to view more 
information about them. Doing so does not use a hero’s 
action. When a hero selects their portrait and drags to an 
object in the app, they are using an action.
Timing 
•	 Each ability describes when it can be used. Most commonly, 
abilities can be used “before,” “after,” or “during” a specific 
time or action of the game, as follows: 
◊	 If the timing of an ability uses the word “before” or 
“after,” the ability’s effect can be resolved immediately 
before or after the described timing event. 
◊	 If the timing of an ability uses the word “during,” the 
ability’s effect can be resolved any time during the 
described timing event.
•	 Each ability can only be used once during its described 
timing. For example, an ability that can be used “During 
your turn” can be used once during each turn, but it cannot 
be used twice during the same turn.
GOLDEN RULES 
The golden rules are the fundamental concepts on which 
all other game rules are built. 
•	 If information in the Rules Reference contradicts 
the Learn to Play booklet, the Rules Reference takes 
precedence. 
•	 If a card ability directly contradicts information in the 
Rules Reference, the card takes precedence. If both the 
card and the rules can be followed at the same time, 
they should be. 
•	 If a card ability uses the word “cannot,” it is absolute 
and cannot be overridden by other abilities. 
•	 If an ability in the app directly contradicts information 
in the rulebooks or on cards, the app ability takes 
precedence. 

Credits
Game Design and Development: Kara Centell-Dunk and 
Nathan Hajek
Additional Development: Jim Cartwright, Todd Michlitsch, 
Brandon Perdue, and Amudha Venugopalan
Technical Writing: Adam Baker and James Kniffen
Producer: Jason Walden
Fiction: Daniel Lovat Clark
Editing: Sam Gregor-Stewart and Joshua Yearsley
Proofreading: Alexis Dykema and Jeremy Gustafson
Board Game Manager: Andrew Fischer
Descent Story Review: Michael Gernes
Creative Director of Story and Setting: Katrina Ostrander
Graphic Design: WiL Springer with Shaun Boyke and 
Evan Simonet
Punchboard Engineer: Joseph D. Olson
Graphic Design Manager: Christopher Hosch
Cover Art: David Auden Nash
Map Tile Art: Yoann Boissonnet
Character Design: Sebastian Luca
Interior Art: Francesca Baerald, Julio Bencid, João Bragato, 
Ivan Dedov, Ana Fedina, Kiana Hamm, Ivan Kunakh, 
Tanya Maksimuk, Ario Murti, Igor Shapochkin, and 
Lenka Šimečková
Art Direction: Tim Flanders and Preston Stone
Managing Art Director: Tony Bradt
Sculpting: Robert Brantseg, Grace Cheung, Rowena Frenzel, 
Adam Martin, Gary Storkamp, and Irek Zieliński
Sculpting Coordinator: Mike Jones
Part Design: Kevin Van Sloun
Sculpting Lead: Cory DeVore
Sculpting Manager: Derrick Fuchs
Software Development: Mark Jones, Paul Klecker, and 
Xavier Marleau
Digital Artist: Gary Storkamp
Digital Operations Coordinator: Emma Hunt
Music: Steven Gernes
Quality Assurance Coordination: Andrew Janeba and 
Zach Tewalthomas
Production Management: Justin Anger and Jason Glawe
Visual Creative Director: Brian Schomburg
Senior Project Manager: John Franz-Wichlacz
Executive Game Designer: Nate French
Head of Studio: Chris Gerber
Playtesters: Adriano Alberti La Marmora, Craig Bishell, 
Doug Christiano, Kevin De Kock, Andrea Dell’Agnese, 
Emeric Dwyer, Julia Faeta, Malachi Gardner, Jeremy Gustafson, 
Stian Haugen, Thomas Hvizdos, Brian Ingvoldstad, Petr Knapp, 
Erik Miller, Lacey Miller, Roderick D Mitchell Jr., Daniele Palman, 
Max Ribaric, Kristian Steinli, Erik Strybos, Anna Svitilova, 
Joris Van der Vorst, Steinar Watne, and Eric Wellens 
 
Special thanks to Andrew Navaro and to all of our beta testers. 
© 2021 Fantasy Flight Games. Descent: Legends of the Dark is TM of Fantasy 
Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are ® of Fantasy Flight 
Games. Gamegenic and the Gamegenic logo are TM and ® of Gamegenic 
GmbH. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1995 West County Road B2, 
Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may vary 
from those shown.

Quick Reference
Round Structure
Each game round consists of the following two phases:
Hero Phase: During this phase, each hero takes a turn 
performing actions to move, attack enemies, and interact 
with tokens and terrain.
Darkness Phase: During this phase, time passes and 
enemies activate.
Actions
During a hero’s turn, they can perform one maneuver action 
and two additional actions. A hero can perform the same action 
multiple times (including multiple maneuver actions).
•	 Maneuver: The hero gains movement points equal to 
their speed.
•	 Fight: The hero attacks an enemy.
•	 Explore: The hero interacts with an explore token or piece 
of 3D terrain.
•	 Ready: The hero flips one of their cards.
•	 Unique: The hero resolves any ability that is prefaced 
by the action () icon.
Icons
 Success
 Advantage
 Surge
 Fatigue
 Unique Action
 Upgrade
 Health
 Damage
Keywords
•	 Charge: After a card is flipped (which includes when it is 
placed in a hero’s play area at the start of a quest), if the 
faceup side of that card has the “Charge” keyword, the 
type and number of tokens specified by the keyword are 
placed on the card. When there are no tokens of that type 
on that card, that card is flipped. 
•	 Reach: A weapon with this keyword can be used to attack 
a figure that is up to two spaces away (if line of sight is not 
blocked).
•	 Reveal: After a card is flipped (which includes when it 
is placed in a hero’s play area at the start of a quest), if 
the faceup side of that card has the “Reveal” keyword, 
the effect that follows the keyword must be resolved 
immediately.
•	 Shift: This keyword allows a figure to move up to the 
number of spaces specified. When a figure is moved in this 
way, it ignores the rules of impeding, but it still obeys all 
terrain rules.
Infected: When time passes during the darkness 
phase, the hero suffers damage equal to the number 
of infection tokens on their cards.
Terrified: When time passes during the darkness 
phase, the hero suffers one fatigue on each of their 
cards that has a terrify token on it. (As normal, the 
hero suffers one damage for each fatigue token that 
cannot be placed in this way.)
Scarred: When a hero flips a card that has a scar 
token on it, that hero suffers two damage.
Focused: During an attack, defense, or test, a hero 
may discard a focus token from a card to reroll one 
of their dice.
Prepared: During their turn, a hero may discard a 
prepare token from one of their cards to flip that 
card without performing a ready action.
Underlays
Underlays have the following effects for heroes and enemies:
Embers: If a hero moves into an ember space, they scar 
one of their cards. If an enemy moves into an ember 
space, the enemy becomes afflicted and doomed.
Poison: If a hero moves into a poison space, they infect 
one of their cards. If an enemy moves into a poison 
space, the enemy becomes enfeebled.
Spikes: If a hero or enemy moves into a spike space, 
they become impeded and suffer two damage.
Water: When spending movement points to move out 
of a water space, a hero or enemy must spend one 
additional movement point.
Frequently Overlooked Rules
•	 A hero can perform actions between spending movement 
points.
•	 A hero can perform the same action multiple times during 
their turn.
•	 When placing fatigue to resolve a fatigue ability, that fatigue 
must be placed on the card where that ability is printed. 
•	 When placing fatigue to convert an advantage to a success, 
that fatigue can be placed on any of that hero’s cards that 
have a fatigue limit.
•	 When a hero flips a card, all tokens that are on that card are 
discarded, even tokens that provide positive effects.