™

Beastman
These half-men are the most common foes encountered
in the Dark. They strike with tooth and claw, and their
leaders bind them into deadly packs that strive with one
mind to bring down and devour the heroes they despise.
Razorwing
These powerful batlike creatures fly above the fray,
swooping down to tear at the heroes with their deadly
talons. Some razorwings move as quick as the wind
itself, striking before they are even seen.
Large and lumbering creatures, ogres are capable of
hurling heroes through the air with the force of their
blows. It is rumored that the mightiest ogres can rapidly
recover from even the most grievous wounds.
Giant
Similar to ogres, only larger and more powerful, giants
are devastating opponents that few heroes have ever
faced. The greatest of the giants can wipe out an entire
band of heroes with a single swipe of their great clubs.
Skeleton
These undead horrors are armed with bows that fire
shards of bone at their opponents. Uniquely powerful
skeletons, identifiable by their glowing red eyes, are
nearly impossible to kill.
These demonic beasts can breathe a cone of fire from
their maws, immolating several heroes at once in the
fiery blast. Some of these creatures are protected by a
nimbus of hellish flames that burns all those who draw
near.

Manticore
A manticore can hurl a magical volley of spikes from its
tail, attacking twice in the blink of an eye. The greatest
of their kind possess envenomed spikes that can poison
the body of even the mightiest hero.
Dragon
These horrific creatures of legend spew from their cav-
ernous jaws black fire that burns even under water. The
most powerful dragons are so terrifying that even the
most courageous warriors are sometimes paralyzed with
fear in the midst of battle.
Bane Spider
Bane spiders are gigantic arachnids that spit poisonous
blood. Some bane spiders, marked with a red hourglass
on their back, also hurl sticky webs at their prey.
Sorcerer
These dark wizards have turned their backs on their fel-
low men and offered their powerful magic in service to
evil masters. Some sorcerers have forged dark pacts with
infernal powers in exchange for near immortality.
Naga
Nagas are snakelike creatures armed with magical spells
and the ability to pin their prey in place with their long,
flexible tails. The most powerful nagas are often seen
directing other monsters in battle.
Demon
Demons are among the most terrible and powerful crea-
tures. Demons wield titanic magics and are wreathed in
a searing sheet of flames. The mightiest demons over-
come their enemies with terror and dread.
In Descent: Journeys in the Dark, heroic adventurers
delve into the darkness that lies beneath the surface of
the earth. There, they fight powerful monsters, recover
ancient magics, and search for mighty relics to help
them defeat dark powers and evil masters.
Up to four players take on the role of these heroes, while
one player becomes the overlord, a powerful being that
controls the monsters that lurk in the dark.
In the game, the heroes explore the corridors, chambers,
and caverns of the dungeon, gathering equipment and
treasure, battling monsters, and working together as a
team to complete their quest. The overlord marshals and
deploys his deadly monsters and treacherous traps to
slay the heroes before they can finish their quest.
Quests
The heart of Descent: Journeys in the Dark is the
quest. Before every game, a quest must be chosen. Each
individual quest tells you how to set up the game,
explains any special rules, and describes the conditions
by which the hero players and overlord player alike can
win the game. 
Feel free to invent your own quests with the components
provided with your game. You may also visit 
www.fantasyflightgames.com for additional quests and
exciting new options for your Descent: Journeys in the
Dark board game.
To get you started, these rules assume that you will be
playing the first quest in the Quest Guide: Into the
Dark.
Warning: Do not read the Quest Guide unless you are
the overlord player. Doing so may spoil some of the sur-
prises that lie in wait for you. 
In Quest 1: Into the Dark, the heroes must penetrate
deep into the dungeon, where they will attempt to slay a
powerful giant named Narthak. On the way, they will
accumulate conquest tokens for reactivating old magics,
finding treasure, and performing other valorous deeds. If
they have one or more conquest tokens when they kill
Narthak, the heroes win the game.
Object of the Game
Introduction

The overlord player tries to remove all of the hero play-
ers’ conquest tokens before they achieve their objective.
The overlord player can remove one or more conquest
tokens from the heroes’ total each time he slays one of
them, sending that hero back to town to be resurrected.
The more difficult the hero is to kill, the more conquest
tokens the overlord removes from the heroes’ total when
the hero is slain. If the hero players ever lose all of their
conquest tokens, they are defeated. For more informa-
tion, see “Conquest Tokens,” page 13.
Components
1 Rulebook (this book)
1 Quest Guide
20 Hero Sheets
20 Plastic Heroes
60 Plastic Monsters
39 Tan Normal Monsters
21 Red Master Monsters
12 Custom Dice
1 Blue Ranged Combat Die
1 Red Melee Combat Die
1 White Magic Combat Die
2 Green Extra Damage Combat Dice
2 Yellow Extra Range Combat Dice
5 Black Power Dice
180 Cards
24 Monster Reference Cards
36 Overlord Cards
12 Subterfuge Skill Cards
12 Fighting Skill Cards
12 Wizardry Skill Cards
24 Town Store Cards
22 Copper Treasure Cards
18 Silver Treasure Cards
16 Gold Treasure Cards
4 Relic Cards
1 Compass Rose Token
1 Town Marker
61 Map Pieces
10 Room Pieces
25 Corridor Pieces
6 Intersection Pieces
20 Dead End Pieces
10 Door Markers
7 Normal Doors
3 Rune-locked Doors
10 Plastic Door Stands
49 Prop Markers
23 Obstacle Markers
10 Encounter Markers
10 Glyph Markers
6 Staircase Markers
55 Wound Tokens
24 Fatigue Tokens
52 Money Tokens
16 Hero Order Tokens
4 Aim Orders
4 Dodge Orders
4 Guard Orders
4 Rest Orders
32 Threat Tokens
24 Conquest Tokens
1 Breath Template
55 Effect Tokens
12 Web Markers
14 Stun Tokens
13 Burn Tokens
16 Poison Tokens
39 Treasure Markers
9 Healing Potion Markers
9 Vitality Potion Markers
9 Money Markers
8 Chest Markers
4 Relic Markers
4 Hero Turn Tokens
12 Training Tokens
4 Melee Training Tokens
4 Ranged Training Tokens
4 Magic Training Tokens
6 Miscellaneous Markers
1 Boggs the Rat Marker
1 Kata the Ferret Marker
1 Mata the Ferret Marker
1 Pico the Empos Marker
1 Skye the Falcon Marker
1 Monkey Marker
Heroes and Monsters
The plastic figures included with Descent: Journeys in
the Dark represent the heroes and monsters in the game.
It is always important to know which exact space (or
spaces) a figure occupies on the board, as this affects
many of the rules for combat and movement. The direc-
tion a figure is facing has no effect in the game. Heroes
and monsters are assumed to be constantly looking
around and can therefore see in all directions.
Note that most figures occupy a single space, but some
larger figures occupy two, four, or even six spaces (see
“Large Monsters,” page 15).
Important: The red monsters represent masters and
bosses: more powerful versions of the standard mon-
sters. These figures have their own areas on the refer-
ence cards, with their own game rules and statistics.
Hero Sheets
Each hero player receives a cardboard sheet detail-
ing his hero’s strengths and abilities. For a detailed
hero sheet diagram, see page 9.
Map Pieces
The map pieces are linked in various ways to
form the game board. Each square on the board
is considered one space. Every space that is
touching a given space (even at the corners) is
adjacent to that given space.
Descent: Journeys in the Dark comes
with seven normal doors and three rune-
locked doors. Both heroes and monsters
may open and close normal doors, but only
heroes may open a rune-locked door, and
then only if they’ve already found the prop-
er runekey.
Compass Rose Token
This token is used to indicate which direction
is north. This allows heroes to get their bear-
ings as they explore the dungeon.
Props
The different types of prop tokens included with
Descent: Journeys in the Dark are listed below.
Pits
Pits deal damage to heroes or monsters that
move through them, but they do not block line
of sight.
Water
Heroes and monsters cannot move through
water, but it does not block line of sight.
Rubble
Heroes and monsters cannot move through
rubble, and it also blocks line of sight.
Encounters
When a hero ends his movement on an
encounter marker, it triggers a special event or
effect as described in the corresponding entry
in the Quest Guide.
Normal Door
Rune-locked
Door

Glyphs
Glyphs allow heroes to travel instantly between
the dungeon and the town. A hero must acti-
vate a glyph by walking across it before it can
be used. Monsters may not end their movement
on a glyph.
Staircases
Staircases allow rapid movement across
the board.
Wound Tokens
Heroes and monsters both use wound
tokens to keep track of injuries. When a
monster or hero suffers its final wound,
it is killed (see “Monster and Hero
Death,” page 16).
Fatigue Tokens
Heroes use fatigue tokens to keep track of
how tired they are. By exerting themselves,
heroes can temporarily enhance their attacks
or movement (see “Spending Fatigue,” page
17).
Money Tokens
Heroes use money tokens, called coins, to
track their current wealth. Money can be
spent in town for goods and services.
Hero Order Tokens
The heroes use these tokens to take special
actions, such as aiming, dodging, guarding, or
resting.
Threat Tokens
The overlord uses these tokens to pay for
overlord cards that he wishes to play from his
hand. These cards can trigger events and
traps, summon new monsters to the dungeon, or
even grant permanent powers to the overlord.
Conquest Tokens
The players use these tokens to keep track of
how well the heroes are doing on the quest.
If the heroes ever run out of conquest tokens,
they are defeated.
Breath Template
Monsters with the Breath ability (see
page 22) use this cardboard template to
determine the spaces affected by their
attack.
Effect Tokens
These tokens are used to track linger-
ing effects such as poison, stunning,
and burning (see “Lingering Effects,”
page 15).
Treasure Tokens and
Markers
These tokens and markers represent
treasure found in the dungeon, includ-
ing potions, piles of money, and chests
filled with magic artifacts (see
“Treasure,” page 18).
Dice
The red, blue, white, green, and yellow dice are combat
dice. Together with the black power dice, they are used
to make attacks in Descent: Journeys in the Dark. The
number on each die face represents range, while the
“heart” icons represent damage. Finally, the red, blue,
and white dice each have a miss result die face: If a miss
result is rolled during an attack, the attack fails com-
pletely, regardless of what the other dice show.
Power Dice
The black power dice are added to attacks to represent
exceptional talent or exertion. Each face of the power
die is of one of the three following types:
Power Enhancement: Some faces of a power
die show a power enhancement. For each power
enhancement he rolls, a player may increase
either his attack’s range or his attack’s damage by one.
Power Surge: If one or more power surge icons
are rolled during an attack, the attacking player
may spend these power surges to activate the
special abilities of any items the hero has equipped.
Note that surge icons are also found on some sides of
the combat dice.
Blank: A power die has one blank side: a side
with no icons or numbers. A blank result on a
power die simply means that the hero earns nei-
ther enhancements nor surges for that die. Heroes must
also sometimes roll “blanks” on the power dice to avoid or
resist the effects of traps, curses, and other effects trig-
gered by the overlord player. 
Hero Turn Token
These double-sided tokens are used to keep
track of which hero players have taken
their turns and which have not. After a
player resolves his turn, he flips his hero
turn token from its green side to its red side.
These tokens are important because the hero
players can take their turns in any order they
choose each round.
Training Tokens
These tokens may be purchased by
heroes in town in order to increase
one of their traits (see “Town,” page
18).
Miscellaneous Markers
These markers serve several purposes in the
game, usually to represent animal compan-
ions that the heroes have brought with them
into the dungeon. Cards will indicate when
and how these markers should be used.
There are several types of cards included in your
Descent: Journeys in the Dark board game. These are
skill cards, item cards, overlord cards, and monster ref-
erence cards
Skill Cards
The hero players each draw three
of these cards at the beginning of
the game. Skill cards are divided
into three decks: fighting, sub-
terfuge, and magic. The decks
from which a specific hero draws are determined by the
hero’s starting skills, as listed on his character sheet. For
example, Red Scorpion draws one card each from the
fighting, subterfuge, and wizardry decks. For more
information on skill cards, see page 20.
These cards represent useful
equipment and treasures the
heroes acquire during their adven-
tures. Item cards include shop items, copper treasure
items, silver treasure items, gold treasure items, and relics.
For more information on item cards, see page 20-21.
Unactivated
Activated

The overlord player draws these cards
each turn. He can play them to spawn
new monsters, take special actions, or
gain permanent powers that last throughout the game.
For more information on overlord cards, see page 21.
These cards list the game rules and statis-
tics for the different monsters in the
game. There is a unique set of monster
reference cards corresponding to the number of players
in a given game: The monsters are more dangerous and
challenging for the heroes the greater the number of
players in the game. For more information on monster
reference cards, see page 21.
Follow the steps below to prepare for the Into the Dark
quest. Other quests may have special setup rules of their
own, as described in the Quest Guide.
1. Choose Overlord Player
Select one player to be the overlord. It is recommended
that the most experienced player take the role of the
overlord, but you may choose at random if you prefer.
The other players are the heroes. The heroes should seat
themselves around the table in any order. The hero play-
er to the left of the overlord player is referred to as the
first hero, even though he will not necessarily take the
first turn every round.
Note: The overlord should complete steps 2B through
5B while the hero players complete steps 2A through
6A.
2A. Choose Heroes
The first hero shuffles the cardboard hero sheets, and
then deals one randomly to each hero player, starting
with himself and continuing clockwise. Alternately, if
the overlord player agrees, the hero players can simply
choose the heroes they will play, again starting with the
first hero and continuing clockwise.
Exception: In a two-player game, the hero player con-
trols two heroes.
3A. Set Up Hero Markers
Next, each hero player receives the number of wound
and fatigue tokens indicated on his hero sheet. Each hero
player also receives 300 coins (three money tokens, each
with a value of 100 coins), one set of order tokens (1
aim, 1 dodge, 1 guard, and 1 rest), and one hero turn
token. These tokens should be placed in the play area
next to each player’s hero sheet.
4A. Deal Starting Skill Cards
The hero players separate the three skill decks (sub-
terfuge, fighting, and wizardry) and shuffle each of them
individually. Then the hero players draw their skill
cards, each player drawing the number and type of skill
cards indicated on his hero sheet. Each hero player may
then choose to trade in one (and only one) of his skill
cards for a new card from the same deck. The hero play-
ers do this one player at a time, starting with the first
hero and continuing clockwise. Discarded skill cards
should be shuffled back into their respective decks
immediately after the player discarding them has drawn
his replacement skill card.
Important: Skill cards are placed face up in front of the
player that owns them and can be used at any time for
the duration of the game. Skill cards are never used up,
discarded, or replaced once this step is completed.
5A. Purchase Starting Equipment
The hero players may look through the town shop deck
and use their money to purchase items from it. Each
item has its cost listed at the bottom of the card. To pur-
chase an item, the player returns the indicated money to
the pile of unused money tokens, making change if nec-
essary. A player may not purchase an item if he does not
have sufficient money to pay for it.
In addition to buying cards from the shop deck, heroes
may purchase healing or vitality potions for 50 coins
each at this time. 
Once the hero players have purchased the items they
want, the shop deck is returned to the play area. Should
the heroes later return to town, they may again purchase
items from the deck.
Important: The store’s stock is limited: there may not be
enough of each item for all players to purchase one. If
the hero players cannot come to an agreement on who
gets to purchase a particular item from the shop, then
the first player to the left of the overlord who wants the
item may purchase it.
6A. Collect Conquest Tokens and
Place Hero Figures
Finally, the heroes receive a number of conquest tokens
as indicated by the quest they’ve agreed to play. For
Into the Dark, they receive five conquest tokens to
start. Conquest tokens are shared by the entire group of
heroes and represent how well the heroes are performing
their quest. The hero players gain additional conquest
tokens by activating glyphs, opening chests, and com-
pleting other tasks. They lose conquest tokens each time
one of them is killed and each time the overlord shuffles
his deck of cards.
After collecting their conquest tokens and waiting for
the overlord player to set up the map, each hero player
receives the plastic figure representing his hero. Starting
with the first hero and continuing clockwise, each hero
player places his figure on the map on or adjacent to an
activated glyph, with no more than one figure in each
space.
2B. Choose a Quest
The overlord player looks through the Quest Guide and
selects a quest to play. For the purposes of these rules,
we assume that you’ll be playing the Into the Dark
quest.
3B. Randomize the Chest Markers and
Lay Out Monster Reference Cards
The overlord player separates the chest markers into
their three types and then randomizes each type, making
sure to keep the markers’ number side down. Then, he
selects the set of 12 monster reference cards that corre-
sponds to the number of players in the game and lays
them out face up near the playing area where all players
can easily see and reference them.
4B. Create the Game Board
The overlord player now assembles the map pieces as
shown on the quest map for the selected quest. He
Game Setup
Map Pieces
Each square depicted on the map is one space.
Every other space that touches a given space (even
diagonally) is said to be adjacent to that space. For
instance, in the example above, all of the red spaces
are adjacent to the yellow space.

should only assemble map pieces⎯he should not place
any doors, figures, props, etc. on the map at this time.
The overlord player places the compass rose token and
the town marker near the board as well.
5B. Put Starting Pieces on the Board
Finally, the overlord player places any monster figures,
doors, or markers indicated in the start area of the quest.
If a chest is indicated, the overlord draws a random
chest Makers from the appropriate pile, looks at its back,
and then places it face up in the indicated space on the
board. Play now begins with the hero players’ first turns.
Descent: Journeys in the Dark is played over a series
of rounds. During each round, every player receives one
turn, starting with the heroes and ending with the over-
lord. After the overlord player has taken his turn, the
round is over and the next round begins with the heroes
taking their turns once again.
One Round Consists of:
Turn 1: First Hero Player’s Turn
Turn 2: Second Hero Player’s Turn
Turn 3: Third Hero Player’s Turn
Turn 4: Fourth Hero Player’s Turn
Turn 5: Overlord Player’s Turn
If playing with fewer than four hero players, simply skip
the turns of the missing heroes.
Hero Turn Order
The hero players collectively choose the order in which
they take their turns each round. At the start of the
round, all hero players place their hero turn tokens in
their play area with the green side up. The players then
choose a hero to take the first turn. That player takes his
turn and then flips his hero turn token to its red side.
The hero players then choose the next hero player to
The Round Sequence
Hero Setup
Game Setup:
Into the Dark
Hero
Sheet
Coins
Hero
Figure
Fatigue
Wound
Conquest
Order
Skill
Monster
Reference
Treasure
Chest
Piles
Overlord
Plastic
Monsters
Map
First Game Preparation and Setup
Hero Turn
Token
Find the arm and wing pieces
for the Demon. Assemble the
pieces so the Demon appears as
shown on the left. Then find the
wing pieces for the Dragon.
Assemble the pieces so the
Dragon appears as shown on the
right. If a figure does not stay
together, you may apply a small
amount of epoxy glue.

take a turn, and so on. Each hero player may only be
chosen to take a turn once each round, and once all of
the heroes have had a turn, the overlord takes his turn. 
If the player’s cannot decide on the order in which to
take their turns, the first hero decides.
Hero Player’s Turn
A hero player’s turn is divided into three steps:
Step 1: Refresh cards
Step 2: Equip items
Step 3: Take an action
Step 1: Refresh Cards
Some cards are exhausted when they are used. When a
player exhausts a card, he simply rotates the card side-
ways to indicate that it has been used. A card that has
been exhausted cannot be used again that turn. At the
start of a hero’s turn, he refreshes all of his exhausted
cards by returning them to their upright position.
Step 2: Equip Items
Next, a hero must choose which items he is using for the
turn. There is a limit to the number and types of items a
hero may equip at one time. For full details, see
“Equipping Items,” page 13. A brief summary is provid-
ed below.
Heroes may have the following items equipped at one
time:
• Items whose total number of “hand” icons equal two 
or less
• 1 armor
• 3 potions
• 2 other
Any items in excess of these limits must either be
placed in the hero’s pack or dropped. A hero can
place up to three items in his pack by turning the item
cards face down (or setting the tokens aside, in the case
of potions). A hero cannot use an item in his pack,
though he can equip it later in the game. A hero can
carry any amount of money in his pack.
Step 3: Take an Action
A hero player must choose one action from the four list-
ed below. A hero is not allowed to do anything except
refresh and equip before he declares the action he is tak-
ing. After the hero has resolved his entire action, his turn
is over and play passes to the player on his left.
The four possible actions are:
A. Run
A hero that runs may move up to a number of spaces
equal to twice his speed during his turn, but cannot
attack (see “Movement,” page 9).
B. Battle
A hero that battles may make up to 2 attacks during
his turn, but cannot move (see “Attacking,” page 9).
Each attack is completely resolved before the hero
makes the next attack.
Important: A hero may use a different equipped weapon
each time he attacks, even when battling. A hero may
not attack using a weapon in his pack.
C. Advance
A hero that advances may move up to a number of
spaces equal to his speed and may make 1 attack dur-
ing his turn. An advancing hero may make his attack
before, after, or at any point during his movement.
Example: An advancing hero with a speed of 4 could
move 1 space around a corner, attack a monster, and
then move 3 additional spaces in any direction (includ-
ing back around the corner).
D. Ready
A hero that readies can either move up to a number of
spaces equal to his speed or make 1 attack during his
turn. In addition, a hero that readies may place one hero
order token face up next to his hero on the board. The
order may be placed at any time during his turn.
These orders grant the hero special actions/abilities later
in the round, often during the overlord player’s turn (see
“Hero Orders,” page 14).
Overlord Player’s Turn
After all the heroes have taken their turns, the overlord
player takes his turn. The overlord’s turn is divided into
three steps. After the overlord player has resolved all
three steps, his turn is over and the round ends.
Step 1: Collect Threat and Draw Cards 
Step 2: Spawn Monsters
Step 3: Activate Monsters
Hero Sheet Diagram
Maximum Wounds
Maximum Fatigue
Base Armor
Speed
Melee Trait
Ranged Trait
Magic Trait
Spellcasting Skills
Subterfuge Skills
Fighting Skills
Conquest Value

Important: The overlord may play cards that say “Play
at the start of your turn” any time before activating his
first monster for the turn.
Step 1: Collect Threat and Draw Cards 
The overlord player collects one threat token for every
hero, and then draws two cards from the top of the over-
lord deck. The overlord player may then discard one or
more cards from his hand to collect extra threat tokens.
The overlord player must discard down to eight cards or
less after drawing his two cards for the turn. He may
choose to discard additional cards and always collects
threat tokens for each card he discards.
For more information on playing and discarding over-
lord cards, see “Overlord Cards,” page 11.
Step 2: Spawn Monsters
To resolve this step of his turn, the overlord player may
play one (and only one) spawn card. The overlord player
must spend the indicated number of threat tokens to pay
the cost of the spawn card. After playing a spawn card,
the overlord player places the monsters indicated by the
spawn card on the board. For complete rules, see
“Spawning Monsters, page 12.
Step 3: Activate Monsters
The overlord player may activate each monster on the
board once during his turn. To activate a monster, the
overlord player simply declares which monster he is
activating and consults the monster reference cards.
When a monster is activated, it may move a number of
spaces up to its speed and make one attack. Just like
an advancing hero, a monster may make its attack
before, after, or at any point during its movement.
After the overlord player has had the chance to activate
every monster on the board, his turn is over. The round
is then complete, and a new round begins.
Movement works much the same for both heroes and
monsters, with one key difference:
• A hero receives a number of movement points based
on his speed and the action he takes on his turn. For
example, a running hero with a speed of 4 receives 8
movement points.
• A monster always receives movement points equal to
its speed, as shown on the monster reference cards.
The player moves his figure, one space at a time, until
he has either used all of the figure’s allowed movement
points or is satisfied with its position. The player may
choose not to use all of the figure’s available movement
points. A movement example is shown in the diagram at
the bottom of the page.
The following rules apply to movement.
• Figures may move into any adjacent space (including
diagonal spaces) for 1 movement point each, but must
remain on the board at all times during their move.
• Figures may pass through spaces occupied by friendly
figures during movement, but they cannot attack while
in the same space as another figure and they must end
their movement in an empty space. A hero treats all
other heroes as friendly figures, while a monster treats
all other monsters as friendly figures.
• Figures can safely move next to and/or around enemy
figures unless the enemy figure has the Aura or Grapple
ability. See pages 22 and 23 for a summary of special abil-
ities, including Aura and Grapple.
• Figures cannot move into or through closed doors,
blocking obstacles, or enemy figures during their move-
ment.
• A figure may make attacks at any point during its
movement. For example, a figure with a speed of 4 may
move 2 spaces, attack, and then move another 2 spaces.
• Special movement rules apply to the large monster fig-
ures (i.e., any figure whose base occupies more than one
space on the board). See “Large Monsters,” page 15.
• Players can also choose to spend their movement
points on performing actions instead of moving (see
“Movement Actions,” page 16).
Each turn, a hero or monster may make one or more
attacks against other figures on the board. The following
rules apply to hero and monster attacks.
Attack Sequence
Whether the attacker is a hero or a monster, all attacks
follow these steps:
Step 1: Declare Attack
Step 2: Confirm Line of Sight
Step 3: Count Range and Roll Attack
Step 4: Spend Power Surges, Power Enhancements, 
and Fatigue
Step 5: Determine Attack Success
Step 6: Inflict Wounds
Step 1: Declare Attack
The attacking player declares which space his figure is
attacking. If the attacking figure is a hero, the player
must also state which equipped weapon the hero is
using. Heroes can only attack with an equipped weapon
(or their fists, see “Unarmed Attacks,” page 19). For
more information on the types of attacks heroes and
monsters can make, see “Types of Attacks,” page 11.
Note that the attacking player designates a space to
attack and not necessarily another figure. This is impor-
tant for weapons with the Blast ability. See pages 22 and
23 for a summary of special abilities, including Blast.
Step 2: Confirm Line of Sight
In order to attack a space, the attacker must have line of
sight to it. In other words, the attacking figure must be
able to trace an uninterrupted straight line from the center
of its space to the center of the space it is targeting. If
attacking with a large monster, the overlord player need
only trace line of sight from the center of one of the spaces
it occupies to the center of the space it is targeting.
Attacking
Movement
Movement Example
Silhouette’s speed is 5 and she’s chosen to Advance
this turn. She receives 5 movement points, which
she spends by moving 5 spaces, as shown above.
Note that she is able to move diagonally between
the Beastman and the rubble obstacle without hin-
drance, and she can safely run rings around the
Beastman (although that’s not true of all monsters).
Silhouette could make her 1 attack (she’s
Advancing, remember) at any point before, during,
or after her movement.

Line of sight is blocked by walls, closed doors, other fig-
ures, and blocking obstacles. Thus you cannot, for
instance, shoot directly through one monster to hit another
monster behind it.
Step 3: Count Range and Roll Attack
Next, the attacking player counts the number of spaces
from the space occupied by the attacking figure to the
targeted space. This is the range of the attack.
After determining the range of the attack, the attacking
player rolls the dice corresponding to the attacking
weapon or monster. The dice the player rolls depend on
whether the attacker is a hero or a monster.
Attacker is a Hero: If the attacker is a hero, the dice
the player rolls are listed on the item card for the
weapon the hero is using. In addition, the hero may add
one or more of the black power dice to his roll, depend-
ing on his traits (see “Types of Attacks,” page 11).
Important: Even if a hero has more than one weapon
equipped when he attacks, he must still choose only one
weapon with which to attack. Thus, a hero who has two
swords equipped may roll the dice for one of those
weapons. The only exception to this rule is for weapons
with the “Off-hand” ability (see “Wielding Two
Weapons,” page 19).
Attacker is a Monster: If the attacker is a monster, the
dice the overlord player rolls are listed on the correspon-
ding monster reference card.
Step 4: Determine Attack Success
First, the attacking player checks to see if he rolled a
miss result. If he did, the attack automatically fails. If no
miss results are showing, the attacker adds up all the
range number results on the rolled dice. The attack hits
if the total range of the rolled dice is equal to or
greater than the attack’s range.
If the total rolled range is lower than the required range
needed to hit the target, the attack fails and no damage is
done unless the player can increase the range to the min-
imum required range in step 5.
Step 5: Power Enhancements, Power
Surges, and Fatigue
If the attacker has not rolled a miss result, it is possible
for the attacker to modify the rolled range and damage
through one or more of the methods described below.
Using Power Enhancements (Heroes or Overlord):
The black power dice have power enhancements on sev-
eral of their sides. For every power enhancement a play-
er rolls during an attack, he may increase either the
range or the damage of the attack by 1.
Using Power Surges (Heroes): Many of the dice have
power surges on them. A hero player may use his rolled
power surges to trigger a variety of special effects,
depending on the weapon used. A weapon’s item card
always lists the effects that a hero may trigger with power
surges when attacking with that weapon. A hero may trig-
ger a specific effect more than once for a single attack, as
long as he rolled enough power surges to do so. Note that
there are some effects that will provide no additional bene-
fit if they are triggered more than once. Any power surges
that a hero does not immediately use to trigger effects are
lost⎯they cannot be “saved” for a later attack.
Example: When a hero attacks with the Mace of Kellos,
he may use his rolled power surges to trigger two differ-
ent effects. The weapon’s item card reads, “: +1
Damage” and “: This attack gains Knockback.”
This means that a hero player can use two power surges
to either increase the attack’s damage by 1 or give the
attack the Knockback ability. If the hero player rolled
four power surges, he could use them to give the attack
+1 damage and Knockback, or he could use them to
simply grant the attack +2 damage. No additional bene-
fit would be gained from giving the attack the
Knockback ability more than once.
Using Power Surges (Overlord): For every two surges
the overlord player rolls during an attack, he gains one
threat token. Any unused surges are lost.
Using Fatigue (Heroes Only): After the dice have been
rolled for an attack, hero players may also spend one or
more fatigue tokens to add additional power dice to the
roll. However, an attacker may never roll more than five
total power dice for a single attack. See “Spending
Fatigue for Attacks,” page 18, for further information.
Step 6: Inflict Wounds
If, after step 5 is resolved, the attack hits, the attacking
player counts the total number of damage (“blood drop”
icons) showing on the rolled dice and adds any bonus
damage from power surges, power enhancements, or
weapon abilities. This is the total damage dealt to the
figure in the target space. In order for this damage to
have any effect, it must first penetrate the 
figure’s armor.
Line of Sight Example
Silhouette, on the other hand, only has a
line of sight to the spaces highlighted in
red. She can’t see any of the monsters on
the board to attack them directly
(although she could catch one in a Blast
if she has a weapon with that ability.)
In the diagram to the right, Sir Valadir has a line of
sight to all of the spaces highlighted in yellow. He has
line of sight to the spaces that the Hell Hound is in as
well as the two nearer spaces containing the Ogre. He
does not have line of sight to two farther spaces con-
taining the Ogre (so he could not target an attack with
the Blast ability there, for instance).
Die Face Diagram
Range
Damage
Power
Surge
Miss
Power
Enhancement
(add 1 range or
1 damage)
Sir Valadir
Silhouette

A hero’s armor rating is equal to the base armor listed
on his hero sheet plus any armor added by his equipped
items. A monster’s armor rating can be found on its ref-
erence card. To determine actual damage dealt, simply
subtract the target’s armor rating from the total damage
dealt to it. 
Example: A beastman inflicts 6 damage to Battlemage
Jaes, who is wearing leather armor. Battlemage Jaes
has a base armor on his hero sheet of 1, and leather
armor gives him an additional +1 armor, for a total of 2
armor. Subtracting 2 from the total damage of 6, we see
that Jaes suffers 4 wounds.
For each wound a hero suffers, the player must remove
one wound token from his hero sheet and return it to the
pile of unused tokens in the common play area, making
change if necessary. When a hero removes the last
wound token from his hero sheet, he has been killed
(see “Monster and Hero Death,” page 16).
For each wound a monster suffers, the overlord player
places a wound token from the pile of unused tokens
next to the monster figure on the board. A monster fig-
ure is killed when the number of wound tokens it has
received equal or exceeds its wound rating, as indicated
on the monster’s reference card. When a monster is
killed, the overlord player simply removes its figure
from the board, and the monster becomes available for
spawning or placement once more.
Types of Attacks
There are three types of attacks in the game.
Melee Attacks: Melee attacks can only be declared
against adjacent spaces. However, a melee attack only
misses if a miss result is rolled. Range results are
ignored during melee attacks. When a hero makes a
melee attack, he adds a number of power dice to his roll
equal to his melee trait.
Ranged Attacks: Ranged attacks can be declared
against any space to which the attacker has a line of
sight. The attack misses if either a miss result is rolled
or the rolled range is less than the range to the target.
When a hero makes a ranged attack, he adds a number
of power dice to his roll equal to his ranged trait.
Magic Attacks: Magic attacks can be declared against
any space to which the attacker has a line of sight. The
attack misses if either a miss result is rolled or the
rolled range is less than the range to the target. When a
hero makes a magic attack, he adds a number of power
dice to his roll equal to his magic trait.
The attacks of many weapons and monsters have special
abilities or effects. Players should familiarize themselves
with these abilities by studying the appropriate item
cards and monster reference cards. Each special ability
is described in detail on pages 22 and 23.
Each turn, the overlord player draws two cards from the
overlord deck. The overlord plays or discards these
cards to spawn new monsters, trigger special abilities
and game effects, and collect additional threat tokens.
When the overlord player draws the last card in the
overlord deck, the heroes immediately lose three con-
quest tokens (see “Conquest Tokens,” page 13). The
overlord player then shuffles the discarded cards and
creates a new overlord deck.
Discarding Overlord Cards
As noted earlier in these rules, the overlord player can
never have more than eight overlord cards in his hand.
After he draws two cards at the beginning of his turn,
the overlord player must discard cards until he has no
more than eight cards in his hand.
The overlord player collects threat tokens from all dis-
carded cards, and he may discard more cards than
required in order to collect additional threat tokens. The
overlord may discard cards at any time during his turn to
collect additional threat tokens.
For each overlord card he discards, the overlord collects
a number of threat tokens equal to the card’s discard
value. Discarded overlord cards have no other game
effect and cannot be used to trigger any game effect.
Playing Overlord Cards
The overlord player must always pay a card’s threat cost
when playing it. He simply returns the indicated number
of threat tokens to the pile of unused threat tokens, mak-
ing change if necessary. The overlord player cannot play
a card if he doesn’t have enough threat tokens to pay for
it. He can, however, discard one or more other overlord
cards from his hand to collect the additional threat
tokens he needs to play the card.
Important: The overlord player never collects threat
tokens for cards that are discarded after he has played
them and their effects have been resolved.
Types of Overlord Cards
There are four types of cards in the overlord deck:
spawn cards, event cards, trap cards, and power cards.
Event Cards
Event cards allow the overlord player to activate special
abilities and take unexpected actions. Each event card
lists one or more triggering conditions that determine
the timing and situation in which it can be played. The
overlord player may play event cards at any time as long
as the triggering conditions on the card have been met.
After playing an event card and paying its threat cost,
the overlord simply follows the instructions printed on
the card, resolves its effects, and discards the card.
Important: Only one event card may be played per trig-
gering condition. So, for example, each time a monster
is attacked, the overlord may play only one dodge card. 
Trap Cards
The overlord uses trap cards to deal damage directly to
the heroes. The overlord player may play trap cards at
any time as long as the triggering conditions on the card
Counting Range Example
The range from Sir
Valadir to the Ogre is
1 space.
The range from Sir Valadir to the
Hell Hound is 4 spaces.
Sir Valadir

have been met. After playing a trap card and paying its
threat cost, the overlord simply follows the instructions
printed on the card, resolves its effects, and discards the
card.
Important: Only one trap card may be played per trig-
gering condition. So, for example, each time a hero
moves into a space, the overlord may play only one trap
card that is triggered when a hero moves into a space.
Spawn Cards
Spawn cards are only played during step 2 of the over-
lord’s turn. See “Spawning Monsters” for more informa-
tion.
Important: Only one spawn card may be played per
turn.
Power Cards
Power cards can only be played on the overlord’s turn
before activating any monsters in step 3. Once the over-
lord pays its threat cost and plays a power card, it is
placed face up in front of the overlord player. Power
cards grant the overlord player special abilities, and
these abilities are in effect for the rest of the game.
Important: Only one power card may be played per
turn.
Each turn, the overlord player may play a single spawn
card. After the overlord places any spawned monsters on
the board, he discards the used spawn card. The follow-
ing rules limit how the overlord player may place
spawned monsters on the board.
• The overlord player may not place spawned monsters
in a space that contains a figure or an obstacle, such as a
pit, rubble, water, or slime.
• The overlord player may place spawned monsters in a
space that contains a treasure or encounter marker.
• If the base of the spawned monster takes up more
than one space, all of the spaces in which the overlord
places the monster must be on the board and free of fig-
ures or obstacles.
• The overlord player may not place spawned monsters
in a space that is in an unrevealed area (see “Exploring,”
page 13).
• The overlord player may not place a spawned monster
in a space to which any hero figure on the board has line
of sight (see “Line of Sight,” page 9-10). Exception: For
purposes of spawning new monsters, other monster figures
do not block a hero’s line of sight.
• If the overlord player cannot find a legal space on the
board for one or more of the spawned monsters, then he
cannot place those monsters.
• The overlord player may not place more monsters on
the board than there are available figures. For instance,
if all of the Beastmen are on the board, the overlord
player cannot spawn an additional Beastman (although
he could spawn a Master Beastman if any of the red
Beastman figures are still available).
• If the overlord player wishes to place a monster on the
board but is already using all of his available figures, he
may choose to remove a monster figure from the board
to make that figure available for immediate placement.
The overlord player simply removes the figure from its
original space on the board and places it in a new space,
following the normal rules for spawning monsters or
placing monsters when a new area is revealed.
This section presents additional rules that should help to
clarify play of Descent: Journeys in the Dark.
Ammo
All weapons in Descent: Journeys in the Dark are
assumed to come with sufficient ammunition or magical
charges to last the entire quest unless otherwise stated.
Armor
The heavier or bulkier armor found in Descent:
Journeys in the Dark may impede a hero’s movement
or even interfere with his ability to use runes.
Some heavy armor reduces the speed printed on the
wearer’s hero sheet to the number listed, if lower than
the hero’s normal speed. Note that this does not prevent
the hero’s speed from being enhanced in other ways,
Other Rules
Spawning Monsters
Monster Spawning Example
In the diagram above, the overlord player has
played a Beastman War Party card, which
spawns 2 Beastmen and 1 Master Beastman. He
must place these monsters in the spaces high-
lighted in blue, since Sir Valadir has a line of
sight to all the other spaces.
It turns out that the overlord has every Beastman
figure except one already on the board. He could
choose to remove one of the other Beastmen
from the board to re-use, but he decides to only
place 1 Beastman and 1 Master Beastman
instead.
In the diagram above, the overlord player has
played a Bane Spider Swarm card, which spawns 2
Bane Spiders and 1 Master Bane Spider. He must
place these monsters in the spaces highlighted in
blue, since Sir Valadir has a line of sight to all the
other spaces.
However, since only one Bane Spider will fit in the
blue spaces, the overlord can only spawn one figure.
He chooses to spawn the Master Bane Spider.

such as by spending fatigue (see “Spending Fatigue on
Movement,” page 18), the Swift skill, or the special abil-
ities of items.
Heroes wearing certain kinds of armor cannot equip
Runes. This restriction is indicated on appropriate item
cards.
Conquest Tokens
The heroes gain and lose conquest tokens as they make
their way through the dungeon. As long as they still
have at least one conquest token, the game continues. If
the heroes ever run out of conquest tokens, the game
immediately ends and the overlord wins. Conquest
tokens are gained and lost for the following reasons.
Normally, if the heroes complete a specific task (such as
killing a certain monster) before running out of conquest
tokens, they win the game. Players can also replay
quests and try to finish with more conquest tokens for a
more impressive win.
Many dungeons are filled with heavy iron or wooden
doors that block all spells and weapons. A closed door is
represented by a door marker. Door markers are placed
between exactly four spaces (two in front of the marker,
two behind it). When a door is opened, simply slide it
off the board to one side. If the door is closed again (by
either the heroes or monsters), simply slide the door
marker back onto the board in its original, 
closed position.
Closed doors block movement, line of sight, and all
attacks (even those that don’t require line of sight).
It is possible for both heroes and monsters to expend
movement points to open or close doors, but only if
their figure is located in a space adjacent to a door’s
closed position (including diagonals). It costs a fig-
ure 2 movement points to either open or close a
door. A door cannot be destroyed by attacks and can-
not be closed if the door’s position (the line between
the two front spaces and the two back spaces) is
blocked by a large monster.
Important: Monsters cannot open any door leading to
an unrevealed area.
Rune-locked Doors
Three of the door markers in the game have a rune icon
printed on them. These doors begin play locked and can-
not be opened unless a hero first finds the corresponding
runekey. Once a hero has picked up a runekey, the token
is placed next to the compass rose to indicate that rune-
locked doors of this color are now unlocked for all
heroes for the duration of the game. Runekeys are not
considered items and they do not have to be equipped or
carried in a hero’s pack.
Important: Monsters can never open or close a rune-
locked door.
Encounters
Many quests present unique encounters that the heroes
must confront and resolve. When an area with an
encounter is revealed, the overlord places an encounter
marker on the board in the space designated by the
Quest Guide. If a hero ends his movement in the same
space as the encounter marker, the encounter is trig-
gered. The effects of triggered encounters are described
in the appropriate entry in the Quest Guide.
Equipping Items
Monsters cannot pick up or carry any items. Heroes may
carry items, but the number they can carry and use at
one time is limited. The limits on the number of items a
hero can equip are listed below. Any items that are not
equipped must either be placed in the hero’s pack or
dropped. If a hero drops an item, he must immediately
discard the item card or token.
The Hero’s Pack
A hero can carry up to three unequipped items (includ-
ing potions) in his pack. Hero players indicate the items
in their packs by turning the item cards or tokens face
down. A hero cannot use an item in his pack until he
equips it. In addition to items, a hero can carry any
amount of money in his pack. There is no limit on the
number of coins a hero may carry.
Limits on Equipped Items
Heroes may have the following items equipped at one
time:
• Items whose total number of “hand” icons equal two 
or less
• 1 armor
• 3 potions
• 2 other
Hand Icons: Your hero has two hands that can hold
items such as weapons and shields. The number of
hands required to equip an item is indicated by the hand
icons printed on the bottom of the item card. An item
with one hand icon requires one hand to equip, an item
with two hand icons requires both hands to equip, and
an item with no hand icons does not require any hands
to equip.
Armor: A hero can equip one armor item.
Potions: A hero can equip up to three potions.
Other: A hero can equip up to three miscellaneous
items: those that do not have hand icons printed on their
cards, are not armor items, and are not potions.
Exploring
Whenever a hero has line of sight to a previous-
ly unrevealed area of the map, it is immediate-
ly revealed by the overlord player.
The overlord places monsters,
Tokens Gained or Lost
+3
Activating a glyph (see “Glyphs of 
Transport,” page 17)
+2 to +4
Opening a chest (see “Chest Markers,” 
page 18)
–2 to –4
Hero killed (see “Monster and Hero 
Death,” page 16)
Varies
Triggering encounters 
Varies
Killing named monsters

items, doors, and other markers as indicated by the
Quest Guide. Once the new area has been set up, the
overlord player reads a bit of text from the Quest Guide
that describes the new area. Play then resumes where it
left off. For a more detailed description of this process,
please see the cover of the Quest Guide.
Familiars & Companions
Some skills and hero abilities grant heroes magical
familiars or non-magical animal companions.
Familiars obey the following rules.
• Familiars are represented by markers. The marker rep-
resenting a familiar begins the game in the same space
as the familiar’s owner.
• A familiar moves after its owner’s turn is finished. It
moves up to a number of spaces equal to its speed,
which is listed in its description (see below).
• Familiars move like heroes, except that they can move
through enemy figures and can end their movement in
the same space as another figure.
• Familiars may occupy the same space as another 
figure, and figures may move through and trace lines of
sight through familiars.
• A familiar cannot carry any items or perform any
movement actions unless its description states otherwise.
• A familiar does not count as a hero for purposes of
spawning monsters unless its description states otherwise.
• Familiars cannot be affected by any attack or harmed
in any way.
Boggs the Rat
This familiar is granted by a Wizardry skill card. Boggs’s
speed is 4. The overlord player cannot spawn monsters
within line of sight of Boggs, just as if he were a hero.
Mata and Kata
These familiars are granted by a Wizardry skill card.
Mata and Kata’s speed is 6. Mata and Kata are each rep-
resented by markers that move independently of each
other. The familiars can each be given or pick up and
carry one item (including potions). They can give a car-
ried item to an adjacent hero (or each other, if they are
adjacent) for one movement point.
Skye
This hawk familiar is granted by Vyrah the Falconer’s
hero ability. Skye’s speed is 5. Enemies adjacent to or in
the same space as Skye cannot dodge or aim, and their
armor is reduced by 1 (minimum 0).
Pico
Pico is an animal companion granted by Ronan of the
Wild’s hero ability. Pico is not a familiar and does not
follow the above rules for familiars. Ronan the Wild’s
player receives the Pico token at the start of the game.
Pico cannot move on her own, but heroes can carry her.
Pico does not count towards the number of items a hero
can equip or carry in his pack. A hero can give Pico to
an adjacent hero for 2 movement points.
Any hero carrying Pico rolls one extra power die on all
attacks (up to the normal limit of five power dice).
Hero Orders
When a hero chooses to take a ready action at the begin-
ning of his turn (see “Hero Player’s Turn,” page 8) he
may place one of his four orders (aim, dodge, guard, or
rest) face up next to his hero on the board.
A hero can only have one order at any one time. A hero
that has already been issued an order cannot receive
another order until the first order is used or removed
(see below).
Once an order has been used or removed, it is returned
to the player’s supply of orders. Each order may be
reused throughout the game.
Aim
A hero that has placed an aim order may make an
aimed attack.
Before the hero rolls dice for an attack, he may use the
aim order to declare that he is making an aimed attack.
This allows him to re-roll any number of dice after
rolling for the attack (including any dice showing the
“miss” result). The hero must keep the second result.
Example: A hero declares that he is making an aimed
attack with a weapon that rolls a red and a green die
(and 2 power dice, thanks to the hero’s trait). He rolls
the dice, but the red die comes up as a miss, so he
chooses to re-roll the red die (keeping the other dice
results). Whatever he rolls, the hero is stuck with the
second result.
An aim order stays with a hero until removed by one of
wounds, 2) the hero moves one or more spaces, 3) the
hero changes his equipped items, or 4) the hero uses the
order to make an aimed attack.
Note: The ready action allows a hero to place an order
and either move his speed or make an attack. The hero
can place the order at any time during his turn. Thus, a
hero may place an aim order and then make an aimed
attack, all in one turn.
Dodge
A hero that has placed a dodge order may, when
attacked, force his attacker (usually the overlord player)
to re-roll any number of dice rolled for the attack. The
hero player may only do this once for each attack, and
must accept the second result.
Example: A hero has placed a dodge order and is later
attacked by a Razorwing. The overlord player rolls one
red die and one green die. The hero can force the over-
lord to re-roll either one or both of the attack dice, but
he can only do this once per attack.
A dodge order stays with a hero until the start of his
next turn, which means that he can “dodge” multiple
attacks.
Important: If an aimed attack is made against a target
that has placed a dodge order, both abilities are ignored
for that attack.
Guard
A hero that has placed a guard order may make an
interrupt attack.
When a door is closed, it sits on one of the
lines between spaces.
Doors can be opened from any adjacent
space (shown highlighted in red, above).
When a door is opened, set it to one side of the
board. If it is closed again, simply return it to its
original position.

At any point during the overlord player’s turn (not dur-
ing a hero’s turn), a hero may use his guard order to
immediately “interrupt” the overlord player’s turn and
make one attack (following all the normal rules for line
of sight and attacking). The overlord player’s turn is
immediately halted (even if the overlord player was
about to attack with a monster), allowing the hero to
resolve his interrupt attack. After the interrupt attack is
completed and any casualties are removed, the overlord
player may continue his turn.
The overlord player must allow for an interrupt attack at
any time, and must reverse any movement/attack if it
was made too fast for the hero player to have a chance
to declare an interrupt attack. If a hero player declines to
make an interrupt attack, however, he may not change
his mind later.
A guard order stays with a hero until removed by one of
wounds, 2) the beginning of the hero’s next turn, or 3)
the hero uses the order to make an interrupt attack.
Rest
A hero that has placed a rest order may use it at the
start of his next turn to return his fatigue to its maxi-
mum value (see “Spending Fatigue,” pg. 17). A hero’s
maximum fatigue value is the starting value printed on
his hero sheet, plus any additional fatigue granted by
skills and abilities.
A rest order stays with a hero until removed by one of
wounds, or 2) the beginning of the hero’s next turn,
when it is used to restore the hero’s fatigue.
Large Monsters
Some monsters occupy two, four, or even six spaces on
the board. The following special rules apply to large
monsters.
• Large monsters occupy all of the spaces they fill. Line
of sight can be traced to or from the center of any of
those spaces. Large monsters are not affected by pits
unless they move entirely into one. In addition, large
monsters cannot climb up or down staircases.
• Large monsters can only be targeted once by a single
attack, even if a Blast or Sweep attack covers multiple
spaces occupied by the figure. Likewise, large monsters
only take one wound from slime per move, no matter
how many spaces containing slime they enter.
• Hell Hounds and Dragons are oddly shaped, occupy-
ing two and six spaces, respectively. They must move in
one of the following two ways:
1. The figure moves one half of its body into a non-diag-
onal adjacent space while the other half of its body
moves into the space(s) that the first half just vacated
2. The figure moves to a diagonally adjacent space by
moving both halves of its body in the same diagonal
direction (also called “sidestepping”). Both types of
movement are illustrated in the diagram on page 17.
• Other large monsters occupy four spaces. When mov-
ing, these figures move like regular figures, and must
always occupy four existing spaces, as shown in the dia-
gram on page 17.
Lingering Effects
Some types of attacks can have lingering effects. These
are indicated by effect tokens, as described below.
Burn
A figure that has caught fire is marked with a
burn token. At the start of each of that fig-
ure’s turns, its owner must roll a power die
for each burn token on the figure. For each power surge
rolled, one burn token is discarded. The figure then suf-
fers one wound for each burn token that remains on it.
These wounds are not reduced by armor.
Poison
When a hero suffers one or more wounds
from a poison attack, the player first removes
the appropriate number of wound tokens
from his hero sheet, as normal. The player then places a
number of poison tokens on his hero sheet equal to the
number of wounds suffered in the attack. If the hero
later receives healing, these poison tokens are removed
first, one token per wound that would otherwise be
healed. Once all of the poison tokens have been
removed, the hero’s wounds can be healed normally. 
Example: A hero suffers two wounds from a poison
attack. The hero player removes two wound tokens from
his hero sheet, as normal. Then, he places two poison
tokens on his hero sheet. Later in the game, the hero
drinks a healing potion and would ordinarily recover
three wound tokens. Because he is poisoned, he is only
able to remove the two poison tokens and then recover
one wound token.
Stun
Stun tokens indicate that a figure is confused
or dazed. On that figure’s next turn (or the
next time the overlord activates the figure, in
the case of monsters), the stun token is discarded. If the
figure was a monster, its action immediately ends⎯it
can do nothing else until the overlord’s next turn. If the
figure was a hero, the hero does not receive a full action
this turn. Instead, the hero may only move a number of
spaces up to his speed or make one attack or place one
order. A stunned hero cannot use any ability that requires
advancing, running, battling, or readying (except for
placing a hero order). A figure may have more than one
stun token on it at once: Only one stun token is removed
each turn, so the figure will remain stunned for multiple
rounds.
Guarding Example
Silhouette has readied a guard order, and is wait-
ing for the Beastman to come around the corner
and into her line of sight. She waits until the
Beastman has moved into the space adjacent to
her and declared an attack on her, then Silhouette
discards her guard order to make an interrupt
attack against the Beastman. Even though the
Beastman’s attack was declared first, Silhouette’s
attack is resolved first. After the interrupt attack
is resolved, if the Beastman is still alive, it can
make its attack.

Transformed
“Curse of the Monkey God” is a trap card the
overlord can play when a hero opens a chest.
The hero must roll one power die. If he rolls a
blank, the card has no effect. If the hero player does not
roll a blank, the hero is transformed into a monkey.
When a hero is transformed into a monkey, the player
must immediately replace his hero figure with the mon-
key marker. The hero’s turn immediately ends.
Monkeys cannot attack and cannot use any items,
including potions. A monkey can move up to 5 spaces
on the hero’s turn, but cannot take any movement
actions. A monkey has the hero’s wounds and fatigue,
but has a total armor value of 0.
After a hero is tranformed, the player collects two wound
tokens from the pile of unused tokens in the common play
area. The player discards one token at the end of each of
his turns (not including the turn the hero is transformed);
when he discards the last token, his hero returns to normal.
Web
A figure that has been caught in a web is
marked with a web token. At the start of each
of that figure’s turns, its owner must roll a
power die for each web token on the figure. For each
power surge rolled, one web token is discarded. If any
web tokens remain on the figure after rolling, the figure
cannot spend any movement
points that turn.
Master Monsters
Master monsters are tougher versions of the normal
monsters found in the dungeon. They are represented in
the game by the red figures, and their stats are listed in
the red area on the monster reference cards. In addition
to having enhanced powers, master monsters are less
susceptible to stunning. When the overlord player
removes a stun token from a master monster, he may
either move the monster up to its speed or attack once.
Any hero who deals the killing blow to a master monster
immediately receives a bounty of 50 coins.
Monster and Hero Death
When a monster receives a number of wounds equal to
its wound rating, it is killed. Killed monsters are simply
removed from the board along with their wound tokens.
The monster figure is returned to the overlord player’s
reserves, and the wound tokens are returned to the pile
of unused tokens in the common play area. Killed mon-
ster figures may return to the board again as needed
(when revealing a new area or when the overlord player
plays a spawn card).
When a hero loses his last wound token, he is killed.
The hero immediately moves to the town. If it was the
hero’s turn, his turn immediately ends. The hero players
then immediately lose a number of conquest tokens
equal to the hero’s conquest rating. If this reduces their
total to 0 or fewer conquest tokens, the game ends
immediately and the overlord player wins. Otherwise,
the game continues.
A hero that is killed loses half of his money, rounded
down to the nearest 25 coins (e.g., a hero with 125 coins
would be left with 75 coins after dying), but does not lose
any of his items or skill cards. He is returned to town (see
“The Town” page 18) and may either shop there next
turn and/or return to the board via a glyph of trans-
port (see “Glyphs of Transport,” page 17).
Movement Actions
In addition to moving, figures can use
some or all of their movement points
to perform other tasks. The follow-
ing table lists these tasks and the
number of movement points
required to execute them:
Named Monsters
Named monsters (e.g., Narthak) are unique monsters
described in the Quest Guide. Like master monsters,
they are represented by the red figures. When the heroes
encounter a named monster, the overlord player must
explain any different or special stats the monster pos-
sesses. The overlord player is not required to reveal any
special abilities the monster may have. Named monsters
are immune to Stun. In most quests, the hero players
receive one or more conquest tokens for slaying a
named monster.
Props
Most props used in Descent: Journeys in the Dark are
obstacles that hinder movement. However, there are also
staircases that allow rapid movement across the board
and glyphs of transport that allow easy access to the
town.
Obstacles
Obstacles tend to block movement or line of sight. They
can be frustrating to heroes trying to reach the other side
of a room in a hurry.
Pits
Pit markers do not block line of sight, but if a
hero or monster moves so that the figure is
only occupying pit spaces, the figure falls into
the pit. The figure immediately suffers one
wound that cannot be reduced by armor. A fig-
ure in a pit may climb out for two movement points, and
is then placed adjacent to the pit in any legal, empty
space(s) the owner chooses.
Movement
Used
Task
Pick up a token in your space *
Drop an item (it is lost forever, unless it is a 
relic) 
Move from a glyph to town (or vice versa) *
Walk up or down a staircase (see below) *
Give one weapon or potion to adjacent hero *
Drink a potion (see “Treasure,” page 18) *
Open or close normal door
Open chest *
Open or close rune-locked door **
Re-equip *
Jump over pit (see “Props,” below)
 Can be performed even with no movement
* Hero players only
** Hero only, and only when unlocked

While in a pit, a figure has no line of sight to any other
spaces. Other figures may trace line of sight to a figure
in a pit normally.
If a hero or monster is aware of a pit, it may jump across
the pit for three movement points for each space
crossed. Simply place the figure on the other side of the
pit after spending the movement points.
Rubble
Rubble markers represent a type of obstacle
that blocks both figure movement and line of
sight.
Water
Water does not block line of sight, but like rub-
ble, it does block movement.
Other Props
Staircases
Staircases allow instant movement from one
part of the board to another. By using one
movement point, a hero (but not a monster)
may move from a space containing a staircase to any
space containing another staircase of the same color.
A hero may move via staircase even if the other end of
the staircase has not yet been revealed. In this case, the
new area is immediately revealed by the overlord player
(see “Exploring,” page 13). If the new area is not yet
connected to the rest of the map, simply keep the two
parts of the map separate until an area is revealed that
joins them (assuming one exists).
Attacks may be made through a staircase just as if the
two staircase spaces were adjacent. A figure standing on
one end of a staircase has line of sight to the other end
of the staircase and its adjacent spaces, while a figure
standing adjacent to one end of a staircase has line of
sight to the other end of the staircase.
Glyphs of Transport
Glyphs of transport are an example of the
mighty magics that the heroes are attempting to
recover and reactivate. Glyphs allow a hero to
move between the glyph and the town (see “The Town,”
page 18) for one movement point. However, glyphs
must first be activated before they can be used. They are
initially placed on the board with their red (inactivated)
side up. Once a hero moves through a space containing a
glyph, the glyph is flipped over to its white (activated)
side and the heroes gain three conquest tokens. Since
heroes who die are returned to the town, activating
glyphs will allow the heroes to return to battle much
quicker. A hero may only use a glyph once per turn—he
may not use a glyph to go to town and then return, or
vice versa. Glyphs are not items and cannot be picked
up or moved.
Important: Monsters may not end their movement in any
space containing an activated glyph of transport,
although they may move through or attack into such a
space.
Power Dice
Power dice are normally added to rolls because of hero
traits or abilities. A hero can also add power dice to an
attack by spending fatigue (see “Spending Fatigue for
Attacks,” page 18). However, an attack may never
have more than five power dice added to it, no mat-
ter the source.
Re-rolls
There are two main effects that cause dice re-rolls in
Descent: Journeys in the Dark. These are dodges and
aimed attacks. The player causing the re-roll chooses
one or more of the dice involved in the attack, and then
the attacker rolls those dice again, keeping the new
result. Under no circumstances may a single attack
ever be re-rolled more than once. If an attack is affect-
ed by both a dodge and an aimed attack, then the two
effects cancel each other and the attack is not 
re-rolled at all.
Spending Fatigue
Fatigue is spent by returning the fatigue token or tokens
to the pile of unused tokens in the common play area.
Once a hero is out of fatigue tokens, he may not spend
fatigue again until he has used the rest order or another
Large Monster Movement Example
The Hell Hound moves up (remembering that its
rear half moves into the space its front half is
leaving), then right, then up again. Finally, it fin-
ishes its move by sidestepping to the upper right.
The Dragon moves up, and its rear half follows
its front half as shown above. It could have
instead ended up one space to the left if the
overlord player so desired.
Here, the Dragon sidesteps to the upper right.
The Giant moves up, then diagonally to the
upper right, and then right.

method to regain some of his fatigue. Fatigue may be
spent in two ways.
Spending Fatigue for Movement
At any time during a hero’s turn, he may spend one
fatigue to gain one movement point, even if he is cur-
rently taking the battle action. This may be done as often
as the hero desires. Movement points gained in this
manner are spent just like normal movement points.
Spending Fatigue for Attacks
After rolling an attack, a hero may spend one fatigue to
roll one additional power die, adding its result to the
roll. This may be done as often as the hero desires, one
die at a time.
Timing and “Start of Turn”
Whenever there is a question of timing, such as whether
an event card can be triggered before a hero can take an
action, etc., the event card always receives precedence
as long as the overlord player declares his intent to play
the event card in a timely fashion.
Many overlord event cards include the phrase “Play at
the start of your turn.” These cards must be played after
the overlord player has discarded down to eight cards
for the turn, but before he begins step 3 of his turn.
Event cards that say “Play immediately before a hero
takes his turn” can be played until the hero player
declares his action. As always, the overlord player
should be given a reasonable chance to play his card
before a hero declares his action.
The Town
The town is a place that the heroes can retreat to in
order to re-supply and train. Dead heroes are also sent
back to the town to be resurrected at the temple.
A hero in the town may choose to shop by
spending three movement points.
Note: All heroes in the town
are considered adjacent to
each other and cannot
be targeted by
overlord cards.
Shopping
The hero may visit the town’s market. He can purchase
one or more items from the town shop deck, he may sell
any of his items for half of their value (rounded down to
the nearest 25 coins), and he may purchase any of the
following:
Dead Heroes
A hero who has died is returned to the town and loses
half his money (round down to the nearest 25 coins).
The hero’s wounds and fatigue are immediately restored
to their maximum values. In addition, any lingering
effects (such as burning, webs, poison, or transformation
into a monkey) are immediately removed. During the
next round, the hero takes his turn as normal.
Treasure
As the heroes explore the dungeon, they will find treas-
ure that can aid them in their quest. This treasure may be
new weapons, armor, potions, or other special items.
The following rules apply to all treasure tokens and
markers.
• Only heroes may pick up treasure tokens and markers.
• During his turn, a hero may automatically pick up a
treasure token or marker in the space he is occupying (it
does not cost him any movement points to do so).
• During his turn, a hero may give items to heroes in
adjacent spaces at the cost of one movement point per
token or card given. A hero who receives an item from
another player may immediately equip it, place it in his
pack, or drop it (see “Equipping Items, page 13).
Healing Potion Markers
Healing potions are elixirs with magical heal-
ing powers. When a hero picks up a healing
potion, he may immediately equip it for free
if he doesn’t already have three equipped potions. He
may place the potion in his pack if it isn’t already carry-
ing three unequipped items.
A hero may drink one of the healing potions he has
equipped by spending one movement point. A hero who
drinks a healing potion recovers three wounds (not to
exceed his maximum wounds).
Vitality Potion Markers
Vitality potions are elixirs with magical
restorative powers. When a hero picks up a
vitality potion, he may immediately equip it
for free if he doesn’t already have three equipped
potions. He may place the potion in his pack if it isn’t
already carrying three unequipped items.
A hero may drink one of the vitality potions he has
equipped by spending one movement point. He then
restores his fatigue to its maximum value, just as if he
had used a rest order.
Money Markers
When a hero picks up a money marker, the
marker is discarded and every hero immedi-
ately gains 100 coins (including dead heroes
or heroes in town).
Chest Markers
Chests found in the dungeon contain both
good and bad surprises. Heroes do not pick
up chests. Instead, a hero must move into the
space containing the chest. A hero cannot
open a chest if the chest is in the same space
as another figure. Next, the hero must spend
two movement points to open the chest.
When a chest is opened, the marker is turned
over to reveal a number on its “opened” side.
The overlord then consults the Quest Guide
to determine what the chest contains. Some
possible contents are as follows:
Money: Each hero gains the indicated amount of money,
taking the money markers from the pile of unused
money markers in the common play area.
Copper Treasure: Each hero draws one card from the
copper treasure deck and may either keep it or immedi-
ately discard it and receive its money value instead.
Cost in Coins
Healing Potion
Vitality Pot.ion
Draw 1 Copper Treasure *
Draw 1 Silver Treasure * 
Draw 1 Gold Treasure *
Draw 1 New Skill Card *
1,000
Gain 1 Training Token **
* When purchasing treasures or skills, the hero 
player draws the card at random from the appro-
priate deck (selecting any one of the three skill
decks when purchasing a skill).
** When purchasing a training token, the hero
player chooses one training token and places it on
his hero sheet. Each training token adds +1 to one
of the hero’s traits, as shown on the token itself. A
player may never improve one of his traits to a
value higher than 5.
Copper
Silver
Gold

Silver Treasure: Each hero draws one card from the sil-
ver treasure deck and may either keep it or immediately
discard it and receive its money value instead.
Gold Treasure: Each hero draws one card from the gold
treasure deck and may either keep it or immediately dis-
card it and receive its money value instead.
Conquest Tokens: The heroes immediately gain the
indicated number of conquest tokens.
Curse: For each curse, the overlord immediately gains
threat tokens equal to the number of heroes. The over-
lord player may spend these tokens to help pay for a trap
card triggered by the chest being opened. After the over-
lord has resolved any curses and played any trap cards,
the heroes may distribute the contents of the chest. 
Heroes gain treasure from opened chests no matter
where they are (even if they’re in town). If a treasure
deck runs out of cards, it is not reshuffled. The heroes
simply cannot gain any more treasure of that type this
game. Items gained from an opened chest may immedi-
ately be equipped, placed in the hero’s pack, or dropped.
A hero may immediately re-equip his items, place items
in his pack, or drop items in order to equip the new
item.
Once a chest has been opened, remove it from the board
and return it to the game box.
Relic Markers
Relic markers represent one of
four extremely powerful
items. Relics are each repre-
sented by a double-sided item card.
Any hero that picks up a relic marker
takes the corresponding item card
and may use it like any other
item. However, a relic may
never be sold, and if dropped,
the card is returned to the pile
of relic cards and its marker is
placed on the board where it
was dropped. Unlike other
items, relics are never lost.
Unarmed
Attacks
If a hero attacks without
a weapon, he attacks
with his fists. This is a
melee attack that grants
one red die and has no
special abilities.
Wielding Two
Weapons
If a hero has two one-handed Melee
weapons equipped at once, he may
gain the benefits of an Off-Hand
Bonus. The weapon the hero does not
use to attack adds its off-hand bonus to
attacks with the other weapon. 
Example: A hero has a sword and a
dagger equipped and attacks with
the sword. The hero’s attack gains
the dagger’s offhand bonus,
which is one free surge. The
hero makes his attack with
the sword normally and
adds the free surge from
the offhand bonus to
the result.

Card Almanac
Skill Cards
Skill cards are drawn at the start of the game and placed face up in front of the hero
players. A hero player keeps the same skill cards all game long (although he can
purchase additional skill cards in town) and may use them as often as they allow.
Skill cards are never discarded.
Fighting: Fighting skill cards typically enhance a hero’s ability
to make Melee attacks and to survive damage. Warriors have the
most training in Fighting skills.
Subterfuge: Subterfuge skills typically enhance a hero’s ability
to make Ranged attacks and to move around the board. Thieves
and assassins have the most training in Subterfuge skills.
Wizardry: Wizardry skills typically enhance a hero’s ability to
make Magic attacks or provide a unique magical ability.
Wizards, witches, and priests have the most training in Wizardry
skills.
Item cards are either purchased while in town or found in one of the
treasure chests in the dungeon. Each item card represents a piece of
equipment that will help the hero on his quest. Item cards are kept face
up in front of the hero player when equipped, turned sideways when
exhausted, and tucked under the player’s hero sheet when placed in his
hero’s pack. Shop and Relic cards are double-sided, while copper, 
silver, and gold treasure cards have borders of the appropriate color on their backs.
Relic cards have a blue text box to differentiate them from other item cards.
Item Traits: These bolded words tell what sort of an item the card represents (such
as Armor or a Shield). If an item is a Weapon, a smaller trait underneath describes
what sort of attacks it makes (Melee, Ranged, or Magic).
Special Abilities: Any special abilities the item possesses are described in its card
text. Special abilities written as “: +1 Damage” are shorthand for “Spend the
number of surges shown to add the listed ability to this attack. You may activate
this ability multiple times, paying its cost each time.”
Item Cost: Items available in the shop have their cost in coins listed in the lower
left corner of the card.
Hand Icons: If an item card has one or two hand icons, they are printed in the
lower left corner of the card. Normally, Weapons and Shields will have hand icons
printed on their item cards.
Combat Dice: The dice rolled when making an attack with the item are shown in
the lower right corner of the card. For instance, when attacking with a sword, the
hero rolls 1 red die and 1 green die. Note: This does not include any power dice
rolled due to the hero’s traits.
Each monster type has a set of monster reference cards showing
its abilities. Which card you use depends on the number of play-
ers (including the overlord) in the game. Each monster reference
card has the following elements.
Number of Players: The number of players (including the overlord) that each card
is intended to be used for is listed in its upper left corner. Note that the cards are
double-sided such that the 2- and 3-player cards are on the front and back of the
same card (and likewise for the 4- and 5-player cards). Only use the card showing
the number of players participating in the game.
Normal Monster Abilities: The upper, tan-colored section of the card lists the abil-
ities of a normal monster of that type.
Master Monster Abilities: The lower, red-colored section of the card lists the abili-
ties of a master monster of that type. Named monsters are unique and are
described in the quest where they are encountered.
Speed: The monster’s speed is listed next to the green boot icon. This is how many
spaces it can move each time it is activated.
Armor: The monster’s armor is listed next to the blue shield icon. Deduct the mon-
ster’s armor from the damage of each attack directed at it.
Wounds: The monster’s wounds are listed next to the red heart icon. Once the
monster has suffered this many wounds, it is killed.
Attack Type: The monster’s attack type and combat dice are listed here. Unlike
heroes, monsters only have one type of attack they can make.
Special Abilities: The monster’s special abilities are listed here. They are described
in detail on pages 22 and 23.
Melee Attack
Ranged Attack
Magic Attack

Card Almanac
The overlord player draws and plays these cards throughout the
game. The overlord should not reveal the cards in his hand to the
hero players until he chooses to play a card. Overlord cards have
a variety of effects.
Type: The type of overlord card is shown here. Event cards have one-shot effects
that occur when the card is played. Trap cards are similar, but they represent deadly
traps being triggered in the dungeon. Spawn cards marshal new monsters in the
dungeon just out of line of sight of the heroes. Finally, Power cards grant the over-
lord player new, permanent abilities when played.
Threat Cost: The number in the lower left corner is the number of threat tokens the
overlord player must pay to play the card.
Threat Value: The number in the lower right corner is the number of threat tokens
the overlord player gains if he discards the card without effect. The overlord player
can discard a card in this way at any time to help pay the threat cost of another
overlord card he wishes to play.
Card Diagrams
Copper Treasure
Gold Treasure
Number of Players
Speed
Armor
Attack Type
Wounds
Normal
Master
Cost
Item Traits
Hand Icons
Combat Dice 
Relic Cards
Item Traits
Hand Icons
Combat Dice 
Type
Threat Cost
Threat Value
Note: Relic cards have a
blue text box.
Silver Treasure
Shop Item

The following section describes all of the special abili-
ties found in the game. These abilities are most often
possessed by monsters, but heroes may also gain some
of them from their own hero abilities or the effects of
items.
Note that some special abilities have ranks (e.g., Fear 2
or Blast 1). The effects of these ranks are always
explained in the ability description. If a hero or monster
gains a given special ability from more than one source,
any ranks the ability has are added together. For exam-
ple, if a hero gains Blast 1 and Blast 2 from two differ-
ent items, the hero gains Blast 3 on appropriate attacks.
Aura
Each time an enemy figure moves into a space adjacent
to a figure with the Aura ability, it immediately suffers
1 wound that cannot be reduced by armor. The Aura
ability inflicts no damage when the figure that possesses
the ability moves adjacent to an enemy figure.
Blast
Attacks with the Blast ability affect every space within
X spaces of the target space, where X is equal to the
rank of the Blast ability. A space is only affected by the
Blast attack if it has line of sight to the target space.
Blast areas cannot pass through walls, closed doors, or
blocking obstacles. The Blast attack deals its full dam-
age to each figure affected by it (friendly and enemy). If
a Blast attack is dodged by more than one figure, only
one re-roll may be made (the first dodging player to the
attacking player’s left decides which dice, if any, are to
be re-rolled).
Breath
Attacks with the Breath ability use the Breath template
to determine which spaces they affect. The template is
placed against one side of the attacking figure (see dia-
gram) and all figures underneath the template (friendly
and enemy) are affected by the attack. A Breath attack
ignores rolled range, only missing on a miss result. If
the attack does not miss, it deals full damage to each fig-
ure affected by it. If a Breath attack is dodged by more
than one figure, only one re-roll may be made (the first
dodging player to the attacking player’s left decides
which dice, if any, are to be re-rolled).
Burn
If an attack by a monster or weapon with the Burn abili-
ty inflicts at least 1 damage on the target (before apply-
ing the effects of armor), the target catches fire. After
applying any wounds that result from the attack, place a
burn token next to the affected figure. A figure can have
more than one burn token at a time.
Command
A figure with Command adds 1 to the damage and
range of all attacks made by friendly figures within three
spaces of it (including itself, and ignoring line of sight).
If there are multiple figures with Command within
three spaces of a figure, the effects stack (e.g., the figure
would add 2 to the damage and range of its attacks if
two figures with the Command ability were within
three spaces of it).
Fear
When attacking a figure with the Fear ability, the
attacker must spend 1 power surge for every rank of
Fear the figure possesses. If the attacker cannot spend
enough surges to overcome the Fear ability, the attack
automatically misses. Surges spent to overcome this
ability are wasted and cannot be used to activate other
abilities.
Fly
Figures with the Fly ability may move through enemy
figures and obstacles as if they weren’t there. However,
flying figures cannot end their movement in a space
containing another figure or an obstacle that blocks
movement. A flying figure may end its turn in a space
containing an obstacle that inflicts damage without
effect.
Grapple
Enemies adjacent to a figure with the Grapple ability
cannot spend any movement points until the figure is
dead. They may still attack as normal.
Knockback
effects of armor) to a figure with a Knockback attack,
the attacker may immediately move each affected target
figure up to three spaces away from its current location.
The figures must be moved to spaces that do not contain
other figures or obstacles that block movement. The fig-
ure does not actually move through the first two
spaces⎯it is knocked completely over them. As such,
this “knockback movement” is not blocked by any inter-
vening figures or obstacles (though a figure cannot be
moved through a closed door or wall).
When placing the breath template on the board, align it
so that its rear end is flat against the base of the figure
making the attack. It does not matter if the breath tem-
plate is completely on the board or not. For instance,
the diagram above shows the six legal positions for the
breath template if the hell hound attacks.
In the diagram above, three figures are being affected
by the hell hound’s breath attack. Silhouette, Mad
Carthos, and the Beastman are all being caught in the
attack. Sir Valadir is not covered by the template and is
therefore unaffected by the attack.
Using The Breath Template
The diagram above depicts a Blast attacks centered on
the Beastman in the middle. Blasts can be blocked by
walls and obstacles.
Blast Example

Pierce
An attack with the Pierce ability ignores 1 point of
armor for each rank of Pierce it has. Thus, an attack
with Pierce 3 ignores 3 points of armor. Shields are not
affected by the Pierce ability.
Poison
Wound tokens lost due to a Poison attack are replaced
by poison tokens.
Reach
The Reach ability allows a figure to make a melee
attack targeting both adjacent spaces and spaces at a
range of 2. As with a normal melee attack, rolled range
has no effect on the attack—it only misses if a miss
result is rolled. The attacker is required to have a line of
sight to the target space.
Quick Shot
A monster with the Quick Shot ability attacks up to
twice each time it is activated.
Sorcery
After making an attack roll, a figure with Sorcery may
add 1 to either its range or damage for each rank of
Sorcery it has. A figure with multiple ranks of Sorcery
may split this bonus between range and damage.
Stun
effects of armor) to a figure with a Stun attack, place a
stun token next to the figure. A figure can have more
than one stun token next to it at a time. Named mon-
sters cannot be stunned, and master monsters suffer
reduced penalties when stunned.
Sweep
Sweep attacks affect all enemy figures within melee
range of the attacker. The Sweep ability deals its full
damage to each figure affected by it. If a Sweep attack
is dodged by more than one figure, only one re-roll may
be made (the first dodging player to the attacking play-
er’s left decides which dice, if any, are to be re-rolled).
Undying
When an Undying figure is killed, roll one power die. If
a power surge is rolled, the figure is instantly restored to
full health (although any leftover damage from the
killing blow is then applied to it). An Undying figure
must stay dead in order for effects that take place when
it is “killed” to actually occur.
Web
effects of armor) to a figure with a Web attack, place a
web token next to that figure. A figure can have more
than one web token next to it at a time.
Credits
Game Design: Kevin Wilson
Additional Design and Development: Darrell Hardy
Editing: Greg Benage
Cover Illustration: Jesper Ejsing
Component Illustration: Jesper Ejsing, John
Goodenough, Lou Frank
Graphics: Scott Nicely, Andew Navaro, Brian
Schomburg 
Production: Darrell Hardy
Executive Developer: Greg Benage
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: FFG Staff, Evan Kinne, Pete Lane, Roberta
Olson, Erik Tyrrell, Thyme Ludwig, Jason Ottum, 
Special Thanks: Darrell Hardy, for helping with the
quests
For additional quests, or to post your own Descent:
Journeys in the Dark quests, visit:
www.fantasyflightgames.com
Descent: Journeys in the Dark is a trademark of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc.
© 2005 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved. No part of this
product may be reproduced or distributed without the publishers consent. 
Knockback Example
In the diagram above, the Ogre hits Sir Valadir with
a Knockback attack. After dealing its damage, the
overlord player moves Sir Valadir up to three spaces
away, ignoring intervening obstacles. The overlord
player moves Sir Valadir through a rubble obstacle
and places him adjacent to a Master Hell Hound.
Now, because the Hell Hound has the Aura ability,
Sir Valadir takes 1 wound (ignoring armor) for mov-
ing into a space adjacent to it. However, because he
never really moved into the first two spaces (which
were also adjacent to the Hell Hound) he does not
suffer two additional wounds.
Reach and Sweep Example
The giant can use his Reach ability to attack
any of spaces highlighted in red. He cannot
attack Silhouette because he does not have
line of sight to her.
However, since the giant is a Master giant,
he also has the Sweep ability, which lets him
attack every space highlighted in red at the
same time. He makes a single attack roll, and
both Sir Valadir and Mad Carthos are affect-
ed by it. Silhouette is still safe, since he has
no line of sight to her.

Lock
Load
Pray
Doom the Boardgame VA08
MSRP 49.95
DOOM The Boardgame © 2004 Id Software, Inc. All rights reserved. DOOM and DOOM 3 characters and images © 2004 id Software Inc. All rights reserved. DOOM and ID are registered trademarks
of Id Software, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and/or some other countries. All Id Software, Inc. property is used under license. © 2004 Fantasy Flight Games.
Fantasy
Flight
Games
www.fantasyflightgames.com