rulebook
Detectives, welcome to Antares, the most high-tech investigation agency in the world! 
While working for Antares, you will operate under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, so consider yourselves servants of the public justice system. 
During our first year of operation, we will be examined closely by the public, the 
media, and the U.S. Department of Justice. Our agency was formed to solve the most 
unusual cases, using the latest achievements in computer science, forensics and 
psychology, and now you get to do your part. There is no room for error, no room 
for doubt — only for your professionalism, your ethics, and your particular sets of 
complementary skills, skills that you will soon put to good use. Don’t let anything 
stop you from solving the case! 
By the way, lunch breaks are at 12:30 PM.
— Partial transcript of an introductory speech to new recruits by Richard 
Delaware, creator of Antares

▶sample mind map
▸WELCOME, INVESTIGATORS
Detective is a cooperative game of deduction. Each of you plays an investigator 
with a unique ability and skill set. You must gather information, collect clues, 
and follow leads in order to solve a case, which is represented by a deck of 
cards. At the end of the game, you will answer questions to gain victory points. 
You will win or lose the game based on the number of victory points earned.
▶Teamwork
Detective is a cooperative game. All players share the Skill tokens, Stress 
tokens (
), and Authority tokens (
) in a common Token pool and use a 
Time marker to track the passing of time when resolving all Actions. We use 
the word “you” to represent the entire team. You are going to examine all 
clues together, as a team.
▶Metaplot
Detective is a campaign game. The five cases in the box are connected by 
one overall narrative thread. While playing, you might find clues that seem 
unconnected to the current case. Sometimes they are dead ends; sometimes 
they are clues you will need to solve upcoming cases. Don’t be discouraged 
if you don’t understand the significance of a clue when you first encounter 
it. Maybe that information will be crucial one day soon...
▶One case, one deck
Each case is comprised of a dedicated deck of 36 cards: 1 cover card and 
35 “lead” cards. Do not browse through this deck or shuffle it! Draw the 
appropriate cards from it only when instructed to do so. Read only the front 
side unless instructed otherwise. Once you draw a lead card, you can refer to 
it at any time during the campaign.
▶Cast a wide net
At the start of each case, you will find a few lead cards and clues to get you 
started. Consider following each of these leads before deciding to investigate 
further down any particular path. Following a few leads based on a variety of 
clues to build a wider picture of what’s going on is often MUCH better than 
focusing on only one lead.
▶Notes
With five interconnected cases in the base game, taking good notes will be 
crucial. If you start a later case without remembering vital names and clues 
from earlier cases, you will have a hard time piecing everything together. 
Do not hesitate to write down important names. Connect them with lines to 
show their relation to one another as well as to evidence, dates, places and 
events. In addition, we recommend creating a mind map to organize your 
thoughts. 
GAME CONCEPTS
Detective is a game night experience and solving a case can take more 
than three hours. Since you will most likely play each case only once, 
don’t ruin the experience by playing in a rush, in a bad mood, or under 
any other circumstances that will not help you fully enjoy the game. Find 
a good quiet place, maybe put some music on in the background, relax, 
and become a detective! 
▶Solving cases without a full deck
Each case has many paths to completion. Due to time constraints, you will 
never see the whole deck or discover all of the clues. In fact, the average 
number of cards drawn in each case is about twenty! 
After finishing the game, don’t be disappointed that you didn’t go through 
the entire deck. This is a game of deduction. Ultimately, what matters most 
is how you piece it all together, not how many clues you discover.
▶There is no “You Won” card 
Detective is not a “choose your own adventure” game. There is no final 
paragraph that says you won and sums up the entire story; no single card 
that makes everything click. All of the information is scattered among many 
different cards. You must connect the dots to build up theories and find 
answers to your final questions.
Remember - no single card will win you the game. The answers for the Final 
Report must be deduced from the clues you have gathered during the game. 
You won’t get far if you merely cycle through the deck, trying to draw one 
card after another, hoping that one last card in the chain will win you the 
game. It will not.
Melody Inc. + Russ & Sons
Where were
the Simmons?
Who is this guy?
David Fowles, 32
Seen:
8 am - 4 pm
8 am - 12 am
10 am - 11 am
11 am - 5 pm?
Melinda Fowles, 27
Grandfather’s?
I don’t buy it!
Ritchie @ PD 
We owe him!!!
One of them has to lie!!!
Call the architects.
Something’s wrong!
Check for entrances!
Cellar
Roof
Missing discs.
Matching key.
3 bodies
2 sections only!
home at 
10 pm?

▶Casebook
▶5 CHARACTER Tiles
▶5 case decks
▶skill tokens
▶CHARACTER tokens
▶wooden markers
▶1 intro sheet/Antares Guide
▶this rulebook
▶5 SPECIAL tokens
COMPONENTS
▶Game board
▶Antares Database
The game board depicts all of the major Locations 
the investigators will visit during the game. It also 
features a Day track and a Time track to mark the 
passing of time, which is important because each 
case has a precise time limit in which it must be 
solved. 
The casebook includes game introductions and 
special rules for each of the five cases in the 
campaign. Do not open the casebook before 
starting the game. Play all of the cases in order 
and don’t read the next case until you have 
finished the current one.
The Antares National Investigation Agency maintains 
a database of its resources at ANTARESDATABASE.
COM. On this website you’ll find witness reports, 
interrogation transcripts, additional materials 
dedicated to each case, and personal files of the 
primary characters you’ll meet in the game.
With investigators on the front and consultants on 
the back sides.
Used for various purposes (e.g. as an additional IT, 
Time or Day marker, as a spare, or to mark important 
lead cards). Unless instructed otherwise, you can 
use them as you see fit - be creative!
Don’t read or even open the next case deck until 
you have finished the current one.
1 Time marker, 1 Investigation Team (IT) marker, 
1 Day marker
15 Authority, 10 Stress, 5 Used Ability tokens
3 Research, 3 Technology, 3 Perception, 
3 Questioning, and 5 Wild Skill tokens

6a
▸TO SET UP FOR EACH CASE: 
1.	
Place the board on the table within reach of all players.
2.	 Place the Investigation Team marker (or IT marker) on the Headquarters 
Location.
3.	 Place the Time marker on the 8:00 AM space of the Time track.
4.	 Place the Day marker on the day 1 space of the Day track.
5.	
Give each player the investigator tile of their choice. Place your investigator 
tile face up and collect the Skill token depicted on the tile in its bottom 
right-hand corner (5a).
6.	 Turn any unused investigator tiles to their Consultant side and collect 
the Skill tokens depicted on those tiles (6a).
CASE SET-UP
7.	
Create a Token pool of all Skill tokens provided by investigators and 
consultants.
8.	 Log into the Antares website at antaresdatabase.com, then choose your 
campaign and the case.
9.	 Take the case deck and place it next to the board.
10.	 Open the casebook and read the introduction to the case, special rules, 
and set-up changes.
11.	 Make plenty of space for your notes and/or a mind map. Use a whiteboard 
or a bulletin board if you have one.
12.	 Make sure you have an Internet browser in reach to search for case 
related information.
3 Players example:
5a

▸SUMMARY
You have a limited number of days, i.e. game rounds, in which to learn as 
much as possible about a case and achieve the stated goal. Once you run 
out of days, navigate to that case’s “Final Report” on the Antares website 
and attempt to answer questions related to it. Your answers will determine 
your final score.
▶Days and hours
Each day is divided into eight working hours (8:00AM - 4:00PM) to spend 
on various actions. You can spend additional hours each day by working 
Overtime. Be careful, though! Working Overtime causes stress, and stress in 
Detective can end your investigation prematurely!
▶Daily activity
During a Day, there are NO individual player turns or phases. You act as one 
team and perform actions together. You should discuss as a team the next 
steps you would like to take. Note that you may have to move the IT marker 
on the game board, move the Time marker on the Time track, and so on, 
depending on your choices.
To take actions during a day, you can:
▸Follow a lead,
▸Dig Deeper,
▸Browse the Antares Database,
▸Browse the Internet,
▸Write a report,
▸Use an investigator’s ability,
▸Spend authority tokens to perform an action specified on a card, or
▸Perform another action defined by the case introduction or a specific 
card.
Each action will indicate whether or not you must advance the Time marker 
to perform it.
Example: You decide to draw and read a lead card, so you move the Time 
marker as instructed. That lead card gives you access to two new lead cards in 
the “Further Leads” section. You decide to draw and read one of the new lead 
cards, advancing the Time tracker again. There is an option to check something 
in the Antares Database, which you do (at no cost on the Time tracker). You 
now draw another lead card, but this lead is in a different Location, so you 
must first move the IT marker and advance the Time tracker by one hour, then 
you can read the card. You adjust the Time marker the appropriate number of 
spaces indicated on that card. Next, you decide to write a report, then check 
another lead card, etc…
▶Day’s end
When the Time marker reaches 4:00 PM, you may decide to work Overtime or 
End the Day; if you End the Day, then you must:
▸Move the Day marker to the next day on the Day tracker, 
▸Reset the Time tracker to 8:00 AM, 
▸Move the IT marker back to Headquarters,
▸Sort notes and discuss what you have learned that day,
▸Write down all possible leads to keep track of what is available to you.
GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW
From our experience, taking a five-minute break after each day to stretch 
your legs, make some tea or coffee, or eat cookies helps to reset your 
brain for the next Day. This short break helps a lot with processing all of 
the clues and keeping your team focused. 
Day tracker
Time tracker

▸RULE 1: CLUES
During a game, you follow clues to solve a case. Each case has three basic types of clues: Leads, the Antares Database, and General Knowledge. 
THREE BASIC RULES
▶@ Antares Database
On the Antares Database (antaresdatabase.com), you can find information 
stored by the police, the FBI, the military, and federal intelligence agencies. 
When you encounter the “@” character, you need to choose the right section 
in the menu, then input the correct name or number. Read the Antares 
Database Guide for more details!
Before Following a Lead, i.e., drawing and reading a lead card, you will know 
the card number and its Location, but not its hour value, which depends on 
many factors. You can only estimate how long a lead is going to take you 
based on the card Location:
HEADQUARTERS — Time-consuming tasks of obtaining information and doing 
extensive research are greatly sped up by the Antares system. These leads 
usually take one to two hours to complete. Interrogations may take longer.
RICHMOND PD & COURTHOUSE — Going through the archives is usually a 
time-consuming process. These leads usually take two to three hours to 
complete.
THE LAB — Cutting edge technology and information specialists greatly 
increase your efficiency, but nevertheless examining evidence can take up 
to four hours.
FIELDWORK — These leads are robust and can take you to many different 
places, but getting around town means that each lead card will take you at 
least two hours. Unless you’re in a hurry.
▶note
▶# Lead cards
Lead cards represent crime scenes, witnesses, 
found evidence, and other information 
obtained during the investigation. Each lead 
in the game is represented by a single card 
and is identified by a # followed by a number 
(example: #103). You may only look at the 
front side when first gaining a new card. You 
may later be able to look at the back “B” side 
- but only when instructed to do so.
Each lead card includes its hour value and 
the Location where it can be obtained. 
Each case consists of exactly 35 lead cards.
This is an example of the front side of a 
lead card. Here you will find clues and 
instructions that you must follow.
This is an example of the back side of a lead 
card. It can also contain various instructions 
and a Further Leads section.
This is an example of a Further Leads 
section. It allows you to follow new 
leads.
This is an example of a Dig Deeper 
section. It allows you to spend 
a Skill token to read the back side.
 General Knowledge 
Detective is set in modern times and you, as the protagonists of the game, 
have access to all data that can be found on the Internet. You can use Google 
Maps, Wikipedia, or any other source of data you may need. We call this 
mechanism “Breaking the Fourth Wall.” General Knowledge is identified with 
the 
 icon. When you see this icon, you can browse the given topic on the 
Internet to learn more about it. If there is a certain phrase underlined before 
the wifi icon, you should run it through the search engine of your choice to 
see what comes up. Read “Browse the Internet” for more details!
headquarters

▸RULE 2: TIME
Solving a crime takes time. In Detective, the progression of time is represented 
by the Time marker advancing on the Time track and by the Day marker 
advancing on the Day track. Investigators have a precise time limit in which 
to solve each case, and each lead card has its hour value. 
▸When you draw a lead card, you must move the Time marker a number 
of spaces on the Time track as indicated by the card. 
THREE BASIC RULES
You can End your Day at any hour, thus starting the next one, until you run 
out of Days. 
▶Overtime & Stress
You may choose to use the Overtime spaces on the Time track to continue 
working after 4:00 PM. In Overtime, continue to move the Time marker on the 
Time track to 5:00 PM and so on. You may use as many Overtime hours as you 
want, then (after advancing the Time track as needed to finish your actions) 
decide to End your Day. 
Sometimes you will be forced to take Overtime because the hour value of a 
lead card makes you move your Time marker past 4:00 PM. Working Overtime 
has its costs:
▸Add 1 
 (Stress token) to the Token pool for each hour you work after 
4:00 PM.
▸If you collect Stress tokens equal to or greater than your Stress 
limit (indicated in the case introduction), your investigation ends 
immediately, and you must go to the Antares Database to complete 
your final report.
▸RULE 3: LOCATIONS
The Detective game board has five Locations. Headquarters is your 
office and the center of the whole investigation. The Richmond Police 
Department is a place where you can access files and evidence from old 
cases. In the Lab, you can examine evidence found at the crime scene. In 
the Courthouse, you can gain access to the archives and documents from 
old trials; you also have a few helpful consultants who work there and can 
give you important advice. Fieldwork represents all other locations in the 
city — its restaurants, parking lots, witnesses’ houses — and other places, 
possibly all over the world.
When you want to Follow a Lead card and you are not already in the 
appropriate Location, you must:
▸Move the IT marker to the appropriate Location on the board, and
▸Move the Time marker one space forward, to represent the travel time.
▸At the beginning of each day, place the IT marker on the 
Headquarters Location.
▸Some lead cards do not depict a location, which means that you 
can follow them from any location, without moving your IT marker.
Example: Resolving lead card #105 requires investigators to go to the 
Richmond Police Department. Since investigators are currently at The Lab, 
you must first get there! You move the IT marker to the Richmond PD and 
advance the Time marker by one hour. 
Example: To resolve this card, you need to move 
the Time marker by 3 hours on the Time track.
▶Ending the Day
When the Time marker reaches 4:00 PM, work hours have ended. Unless you 
decide to go into Overtime, the Time token should now be moved to 8:00 AM 
and the Day marker moved to the next Day. Remove all Used Ability tokens 
(
) from the investigator tiles. If you have finished the final day of your 
investigation, you have to finish the case by making a Final Report in the 
Antares Database; then read the epilogue based on your report. 

IN ANY ORDER, YOU MAY TAKE ANY OF THESE AVAILABLE ACTIONS AS A TEAM:
▸FOLLOW A LEAD
At the beginning of a case, the “Further Leads” section in the casebook will 
present a list of lead cards. You can Follow Leads in any order you wish, and 
you can ignore any that you don’t wish to follow. However, once you draw a 
lead card, you MUST resolve it; you may NOT check the hour value and Skill 
required to Dig Deeper and then decide not to resolve the card.
When you decide to Follow a particular Lead, you must:
1.	 Search the deck for the lead card with the appropriate number. 
2.	Check the lead card’s location and move the IT marker and Time marker 
if necessary. (See “Rule 3: Locations”) 
3.	Check the lead card’s hour value and advance the Time marker an 
appropriate number of spaces. (See “Rule 2: Time”)
4.	Read the card aloud and present its contents to all players. Make sure 
you keep the back side hidden (unless you are instructed otherwise). 
5.	Follow all of the lead card’s direct instructions. (See “Instructions”)
6. When you encounter a Signature, you must input it into the Antares 
Database, in the Signatures section. (See: Matching Evidence under 
“Other Rules”)
7.	 Decide whether or not to “Dig Deeper” if possible. (See Dig Deeper 
action)
8.	Note any Further Leads. (See “Further Leads”)
9.	Place the card aside because it is now resolved. More specifically:
▸If the card doesn’t have this symbol: 
 or you didn’t Dig Deeper, place 
the card on the right side of the game board to remember that you do 
not have access to the back side of these lead cards. 
▸If you saw the backside of the card due to 
, Digging Deeper or other 
instructions, place it on the left side of the game board, which is where 
you can keep track of all cards that have both sides available to you.
▶Spending authority tokens
▸Some clues and instructions you encounter may require you to 
discard a certain number of 
 - Authority tokens.
▸Follow a Lead
▸Dig Deeper
▸Browse the Antares Database
▸Browse the Internet
▸Use an ability
▸Write a report
▶available actions
▶instructions
This symbol means “turn the card over and read its back side,” 
either after following some additional instructions (see Dig Deeper 
action) or for free.
The “READ” keyword indicates that you must immediately read the specified 
card or Antares Database entry. If you are instructed to read more than one 
clue, you may read them in any order.
The “CHOOSE” keyword means that you have to decide which action to take 
from the options presented, mostly by following different leads or reading 
different clues. Once you make your choice, you cannot consult the other 
options; you must resolve the rest of the lead or follow any instructions 
given in the Antares Database entry.
“ADD A PLOT CARD” - Plot cards are a special type of cards that represent 
leads in future cases.
You may encounter some additional, simple instructions that do not require 
further explanation.
▶dig deeper (7)
▶location (2)
▶hour value (3)
▶lead card’s 
	
text to be 
	
read (4)
▶an instruction (5)
▶further leads (8)
card number (1)
▶lead card’s anatomy
You step into the dark, cold room. You immediately 
notice that someone was here recently. The room 
is tidy, but there are small specks of dirt on the 
ground.
After a few minutes of thorough searching, you find 
a small, crumpled receipt under the table. Whoever 
cleaned this place up, must have missed it. You 
carefully straighten it out.
Trace the source of the transmission
Bag of cookies - £14
221B Baker Street, London
There is also an old computer on the desk. You may 
be able to analyse its contents.
▸Read FILE@200
Examine the receipt and the specks of dirt - 
#236 - The Lab
fieldwork
▶further leads
The “FURTHER LEADS” section on the lead card lists other lead cards 
you may decide to follow at any time later in the game. You must finish 
resolving the current card before following a new lead. 

▸DIG DEEPER
Lead cards are double-sided. The Dig Deeper action allows you to reveal 
additional information by reading the back side of the lead card. To Dig 
Deeper, you must spend the token depicted in the Dig Deeper section of the 
card. After you do so, flip the card over, read it, note Further Leads, etc.
Example: You Follow a Lead - a suspect questioning. The front side of the card 
presents the suspects’ testimony. It is not very convincing; you are certain, 
that he is hiding something. However his alibi checks out. The Dig Deeper 
section gives you the option of pressing the suspect further. Are you satisfied 
with what you’ve learned, or do you want to Dig Deeper?
Digging Deeper is like following your gut instinct. You don’t have to Dig 
Deeper on every lead. Sometimes this will lead to nothing interesting, 
sometimes you will confirm what you already deduced, and sometimes 
you’ll learn new information! 
▶ card resolution example
When you have the opportunity to Dig Deeper, you must decide whether to 
spend the appropriate token or not. You have a limited number of tokens 
to spend during a case, so choose carefully. You can choose whether to Dig 
Deeper or not to Dig Deeper until you move on to Follow another Lead.
In the rare case when you follow more than one lead card simultaneously, 
e.g., because of the Read keyword, you can choose to Dig Deeper after 
reading all of the lead cards you just followed.
look for more details
He is right where you expected him 
to be: In his body shop. You step in, 
identify yourself, and ask him about his 
whereabouts on the day of the murder.
He squints a little and starts to talk.
“Look, I didn’t do it. Had a delivery that 
day. That’s my side job. You can check 
that - call my supervisor. Besides, I 
barely even knew the victim! All I know 
is that his girlfriend was going to visit 
him that day, but her car broke down 
and she ended up here. That’s all I 
know, seriously. Now, can I please get 
back to my job?”
“Not so fast,” you reply. “Tell me about 
his girlfriend. What’s her name? Can you 
prove she was here? What time did she 
leave?”
The guy scratches his head for a while. 
You take a careful look at him. Finally 
he responds “Well, I believe her name 
is Jennifer O’Connor. (MSL) I can’t prove 
that she was here, but I think she should 
have my business card in her car. (LSL) 
She left at five if I remember correctly. 
(HSL)”
You nod. “That will be all for now, thank 
you.”
He is full of shit, that’s for sure. If this 
Jennifer left at five, she wouldn’t have had 
enough time to reach the victim’s place 
from here. It’s time to look her up.
Read NAME@JenniferOConnor
press him further
fieldwork
First, you draw the appropriate 
card. Look through the deck 
for it without reading anything 
but the numbers at the top of 
the cards. In this example, you 
are looking for card #336. You 
update your Location. 
If you were in any other Location 
than Richmond PD you would 
have to move your IT marker 
there and advance the Time 
marker by one hour.
Then, you update the Time 
track. Look at the hour value 
of the card. In this example, 
the hour value is equal to two 
hours, so you move your Time 
marker two spaces forward on 
the Time track. 
Then 
you 
must 
read 
the 
content of the card. Note, you 
have to immediately follow 
any instructions that are in the 
text. In this example, the first 
instruction allows you to open the FILE in the Antares Database. Input the 
file’s number and read its content. It mentions evidence and a fundraiser 
connected to your case. 
Follow any instructions you may encounter there. The second instruction 
is to add one Authority token to your Token pool. Do it now. Remember, that 
you can resolve any given card only once, so you will never get a second 
opportunity to gain this benefit. 
There is a Dig Deeper section on the card. You can spend one Perception Skill 
token to analyze the evidence mentioned in the file. You have to decide now, 
if you are going to Dig Deeper or not. If you do, read the back side, follow any 
instructions there and go to the next step. If you don’t, go to the next step. 
Note any further leads to keep track of what is available to you. 
In this example, there is only one Further Lead: to research the fundraiser 
mentioned in the file. The card is now resolved. Put it on the right or the left 
side of the board, depending on whether you have access only to the front 
side of the card, or both sides of the card. In other words, if you Dig Deeper 
you will put the card to the left and if you haven’t you will put it on the right. 
Discuss what you have learned and what your next step is going to be.
After you reach the precinct, it becomes clear why 
no one was answering the phone: Halloween. They 
decided to hold some kind of event for Halloween, a 
fake heist or something. In addition, lock-up seems to 
be overflowing with perps dressed like zombies and 
vampires. It’s pandemonium. 
Nevertheless, you find officer Murtaugh and ask 
him about the case. After rummaging through some 
old files, he finally procures an old, cobweb-strewn 
notebook and offers it to you with an outstretched 
hand.
“Here. Take it. Put it to good use. I’m too old for 
this shit anyway.”
You acknowledge this with a nod and proceed to 
examine the notes.
▸Read FILE@336
▸Add 1 
 to the Token Pool.
Check the financial statement of a fundraiser - 
#300 - Headquarters
analyze the evidence
richmond pd

▸BROWSE THE ANTARES DATABASE
During the game, you will be instructed to read data from the Antares 
Database.
Login and type the name of a person for Personal Files or an indicated 
number for all other data.
Example 1: You learn about Rupert Owens being a suspect in the case. The card 
says ‘Read NAME@RupertOwens’ You have to login to the Antares Database 
website, choose Personal Files, then type in ‘Rupert Owens” in the form field. 
The website will show you a file of that person with all data gathered by the 
police and from the other sources.
Example 2: You learn about Tony Russo, Italian restaurant owner who was at the 
crime scene. Card #032 says ‘Talk with Tony Russo. Read QUESTIONING@032’ 
You may login to Antares website, choose the QUESTIONING type, then type in 
032. The website will show you a transcription of the questioning of Tony Russo.
▸NEVER type numbers or names found during the investigation into the 
Antares Database unless specifically instructed to do so by the @ icon.
▸Accessing the Antares Database never costs hours.
▸You can access the Antares Database at any time during the game, as 
many times as you want.
Read Antares Database Guide for more details.
▸BROWSE THE INTERNET
During the game, you will find underlined phrases with the 
 icon. These may 
be addresses, quotes, names, dates, or other information that you can learn 
more about by browsing the Internet. None of these clues are necessary to 
solve the case, and you can finish the game without browsing the Internet. 
However, learning more about the given topics may help you understand the 
plot and some aspects of the case.
You are free to use any resources you can find to follow the clues marked 
with the 
 icon, including Wikipedia, Google, and Google Maps. 
▸You cannot search the Internet for information on a topic if not 
specifically instructed to do so by the 
 icon. 
▸Once instructed, you can browse the Internet for clues on that topic at 
any time during the game, as often as you want. 
▸Browsing the Internet never costs any hours.
Example: You begin the questioning of the suspect:
“Please tell me, Ms. O’Connor, where were you on March 17?”
“I was at work, as usual, (LSL) then I was driving back home and I got a flat tire. (HSL) I drove 
to the nearest car shop and waited there until they fixed it. (MSL)”
You could interpret her words and Stress Levels as follows: It is easy to check if she was at work 
and she has no reason to lie there, so that’s probably true, as Low Stress Level would suggest. It 
is unlikely that she has a strong emotional reaction to the flat tire, unless it was a really stressful 
situation for her. That could be a lie, as High Stress Level would suggest. Nevertheless it seems, 
that she went to the car shop, but it is hard to tell if she stayed there, or why exactly she is reacting 
so emotionally, as Medium Stress Level indicates. She could be hiding some information here, or 
maybe she has some ties to someone working there.
▶Questioning: Stress Levels
While interrogating, questioning, or sometimes simply talking to people, you will be able to 
identify the speaker’s Stress Level, as follows:
▸LSL - Low Stress Level
▸MSL - Medium Stress Level
▸HSL - High Stress Level
When you are reading transcripts of previous conversations, the sophisticated Antares System 
may have evaluated the speaker’s Stress Level for you, and the same nomenclature will be used.
The higher the Stress Level, the more likely the suspect or witness is lying, hiding information, or 
otherwise reacting emotionally to the questioning.
...and if not for Karl Landsteiner 
 we wouldn’t have figured it out. 
It seems that our victim and his 
murderer are related, after all. I 
don’t know if that helps you, but 
we have also found small traces 
of tetrahydrocannabinol 
 in his 
hair, so he definitely liked to get 
toasted once in a while.
Example: You can enter Karl Landsteiner into the search 
engine of your choice (or use more traditional methods, 
such as an encyclopedia) and learn that he was an 
Austrian scientist who developed the modern system 
of classification of blood groups. If there are persons of 
interest in your case and you have their blood type data, it 
would be wise to research this topic a little bit. See if you 
can learn something interesting about them!
Separately, you can input tetrahydrocannabinol and 
confirm that the victim was a cannabis user. Maybe that 
will help you deduce some new theories!

▸USE AN ABILITY
Each investigator has a special ability that can be used once per day. After 
using your investigator’s ability, place 1 
 (Used Ability token) on your 
investigator tile as a reminder that it cannot be used again until the next day.
▸WRITE A REPORT
Once per day, you may spend one of your working hours at any location 
to Write a report in order to receive an Authority token. If you do, move 
the Time marker one space forward and add 1 
 to your Token pool. You 
cannot Write a report during Overtime hours.
▸Investigators can use their ability at any location.
▸Note that Mia Roberts’ ability allows another investigator to refresh 
their ability. Mia’s ability can also be used only once per day.
THE COURTHOUSE
Example: While Following a Lead in the suspect’s neighborhood, 
you had the option to Dig Deeper and spend a Questioning Skill 
token from your Token pool to question some junkie that was 
hanging around the suspect’s house. You have decided not to do 
that, as he probably wouldn’t be a reliable source of information. 
The lead was resolved and placed at the right side of the board. 
However, you have just learned that your perp likes to smoke 
some weed once in a while. Maybe the junkie knows something 
about the dealer! 
Normally you cannot Dig Deeper on an already resolved card. 
Luckily, one of the players chose to play Chris Stone. Using 
his ability allows you to spend one Authority token and an 
appropriate Skill token (the Questioning or Wild Skill token in 
this case) from your Token pool to Dig Deeper on a lead card 
that has already been resolved. 
You can read the back side of the card, learn what the junkie 
has to say, follow any instruction written there and afterwards 
place the card on the left side of the board, as you now have 
access to both sides. 
Remember to place one Used Ability token on Chris’ Investigator 
Tile after using his ability.

THE LAB
▸SKILL TOKENS
At the start of a case, each investigator and consultant adds their Skill tokens 
to the team’s Token pool; some characters have no tokens. Skill tokens do 
not refresh at the end of the day, so this pool is a supply for the whole team 
for the entire case. There are four types of skills:
RESEARCH represents the ability to browse through old archives 
and files, and speak with librarians. It also represents your 
general knowledge and thoroughness during an investigation.
TECHNOLOGY represents the ability to use modern technology 
to 
gather 
information, 
including 
browsing 
government 
databases, hacking into private systems, creating complex 
search algorithms, etc.
QUESTIONING represents the ability to talk with witnesses, 
interrogate suspects, read body language, ask others for help or 
favor, etc.
PERCEPTION represents the ability to spot small details at the 
crime scene, to find and link evidence, and to imagine the crime 
and process it internally in order to find missing details. It is also 
useful in lab work, where spotting the smallest details matter.
A WILD SKILL TOKEN can be used as a substitute for any of 
the four types of Skill tokens.
▸AUTHORITY TOKENS
Authority tokens represent how well your team is regarded at 
Antares. Investigators begin each case with a fixed number of 
Authority tokens in the Token pool (as noted in the introduction). 
Investigators may spend Authority tokens from the Token pool to 
activate their abilities.
During the game, investigators may be able to gain more Authority tokens as 
they proceed in their investigation. Being rewarded with these tokens during 
the game is a good indication that the investigation is moving in the right 
direction.
Having Authority tokens also allows investigators to persuade superiors 
and subordinates to assist them in a variety of ways; some lead cards, for 
example, ask you to discard Authority tokens from the pool in order to 
achieve something (e.g., acquire an arrest warrant).
▸Investigators may spend one hour each day using the “Write a 
report” action to add one Authority token to the Token pool.
▸Sometimes you will need to spend Authority tokens to Follow a 
particular Lead.
▸You can’t have more tokens in your Token pool than the ones 
provided in the box. If you are instructed to add more than are 
available, simply ignore that instruction.
Authority tokens may be crucial in some parts of the case, so watch your 
supply of tokens carefully!

▸MATCHING EVIDENCE
When you encounter a signature, visit ANTARESDATABASE.COM, click the 
“SIGNATURE” button, then type the 12-character case-sensitive signature 
into the form. The system will automatically recognize the signature type 
and add a short description. You can add your own description as well, such 
as what the signature is related to (e.g., fingerprints on a knife on card #108). 
You have access to all signatures entered in the system at any point during 
the game. Signatures are divided into three categories — Dactyloscopic (SD), 
DNA (SDNA) and Material (SM) — and they represent examined fingerprints, 
blood, hair, dirt, and many other types of evidence. 
The Antares Database can match evidence with various people of interest 
and with one another, giving you valuable data or even enabling an arrest.
▸SAVING THE GAME
When you finish a case, note which cards that you gained during the 
investigation you can access from both sides, and which you can access only 
from the front side. Then place all of those cards in the dedicated spot of the 
insert. You can access these cards in all future cases, but only as notes - they 
cannot be used for any actions! All other cards from the case are no longer 
available in the game.
You should also keep all notes you make during the game. Detective is a 
campaign game, and all the cases are connected, with characters, names, 
places, clues, and plots part of the big story.
EXAMPLE: If you examine the evidence in The Lab or find lab results elsewhere, 
they will often include Signatures that you have to input to the Antares 
Database. There you can match them with other collected evidence and learn 
some new information - for example about the identity of a suspect! If your 
match is significant for your case, you will earn additional points that will be 
automatically added to your final scoring.
▸Signatures never match all twelve characters. 
▸The character ‘x’ represents an incomplete signature.
▸The Antares Database matches signatures to help you find matching 
entries.
▸Inputting encountered Signatures into the Antares Database is 
mandatory!
It’s good to spend a few minutes at the end of a case to summarize 
the most important facts, names, and theories that you had during the 
game. This will be very helpful when you continue the game after a few 
days — or weeks! After all, approaching the next case with only a vague 
memory of the previous plot, main characters, and clues is a good way 
to lose the upcoming case. 
Evidence - blood of a victim, traces 
of alcohol
SDNA: KPUHVS-UDVZCB

▸INVESTIGATORS
Detective is for 1 to 5 players, each of whom must choose one investigator 
that they will play. The main features of a character are their abilities and 
skills. Skills are simply added to the Token pool at the start of a case. Abilities 
let you gain or spend authority tokens and use them to gain new actions not 
provided by the basic rules. All abilities can be used only once per day! After 
using an ability, place a 
 on the character tile as a reminder. Remove all 
 from all character tiles when you start a new day.
The five investigator characters in the base game are:
▶Jack Coleman, former cop
When investigators take the “Write a report” action, add 
 instead of 1 to the Token pool. Remember that you 
can Write a report only once per day!
▶Chris Stone, former private eye
 from the Token pool and the appropriate 
Skill token to Dig Deeper on a lead card that has already 
been resolved and stored on the right side of the game 
board. Sometimes new facts will make you change your 
mind about a seemingly dead lead!
▶Ben Harris, former FBI analyst
Spend 2 
 from the Token pool to add 1 
 token to 
the Token pool.
▶Julia Jacobson, former investigative journalist
 from the Token pool to change 1 Skill token 
of any type in the pool into 1 
 token.
▶Mia Roberts, former psychologist
 from the Token pool to remove 
 token 
from another investigator.
▸CONSULTANTS
Depending on the number of players, you will be assisted by 0-4 consultants. 
At the beginning of the game, gather all the Skill tokens given to you by 
consultants and add them to the Token pool.
▸PLOT CARDS
▸Don’t read a Plot card when you draw it; wait until the beginning 
of the appropriate case.
▸Plot cards often indicate that you’re going in the wrong direction 
of your current case. However, they are a good indication that 
you are closer to digging up the main plot of the campaign.
Plot cards represent leads that are not related 
to the particular case you are solving, but 
to the main plot of the campaign. When you 
discover leads related to the main plot, you 
will be asked to place Plot card number XXX 
into case number YYY. This information may 
not add much to your present investigation, 
but in relation to the whole campaign it may 
make a difference!
When asked to add Plot cards to a future case, 
take the appropriate Plot card and, without 
reading it, add it to the zip bag dedicated to 
the appropriate case. (In the box, you will find 
zip bags for cases 2-5).

RICHMOND PD
▸GAME END AND SCORING
Each case grants you a specific amount of time (e.g., three days) to complete 
your investigation. The case ends at 4:00 PM (or later, if you decide to work 
Overtime) on the final day. Once you stop work and End that Day, you must 
log into the Antares Database and choose “Final Report” from the menu. 
Once there, you will complete a virtual report explaining the entire case, 
divided into two sections. The first section will require you to answer the 
main questions related to the goal of the case; the second section will contain 
additional questions, related to the metaplot. You will have to collectively 
discuss and decide how to answer each question.
The answers to questions come from deductions that you have made during 
and after the investigation. Answers to questions are not on particular cards. 
Instead you must deduce them!
Each case has a predetermined point total that you must reach to win the case. 
▸The main questions are worth the most points.
▸Additional questions are worth the least points.
▸You will automatically receive additional points for each piece of 
matched evidence you’ve entered into the Antares Database (worth 
more than additional questions, but less than the main questions).
▸Additionally, you will be prompted to input the number of Stress tokens 
you’ve collected. For each 
 you will lose 1 point.
GAME END AND SCORING
▶credits
GAME DESIGN: Ignacy Trzewiczek
GAME STORY: Przemysław Rymer, Jakub “Dragon” Łapot
GRAPHIC DESIGN: Ewa Kostorz, Rafał Szyma, Aga Jakimiec
ENGLISH TEXT EDITORS: Luke and Zara Otfinowski, 
Vincent Salzillo
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER: Grzegorz Polewka
© 2018 PORTAL GAMES Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Św. Urbana 15, 44-100 Gliwice, 
Poland. All rights reserved.
Reprinting and publishing of game rules, game components or illustrations 
without the permission of Portal Games is prohibited.
Dear Customer, our games are assembled with the greatest 
care. However, if your copy lacks anything we apologize for it. 
Please, let us know: portal@portalgames.pl
Special thanks to: Merry, Marek, Damian, Zara, Aaron Downing, 
Łukasz Piechaczek, Eric W. Martin, Iwona, and Chevee Dodd.
We’d like to thank testers who made this game so much better: 
Merry, Młody, Michał, Walec, Andy, Daria, Olga, Ewa, Aga, Mirek, 
Rafał, Basia, Bernadetta, Marek, Marcin, Andrzej, Pako, Greg, 
Asia, Darek, Natalia, Piotr, Adam, Olaf, Lesiu, Pusia, Uzu, Kamil, 
Ania, Ala, Tomek, Paxu, Zbyszek, Grzesiek, Gloomy, Jagódka, 
Eryk, Piechu, Agnieszka, Angelika, Dominik, Aleksandra, Dawid, 
Damian, Axel, Łasica, Szczuras, Olo, Michał and Ela, Mysza, 
Marta, Magda and Marek, Tony and Brian.
The story, all names, characters, and incidents portrayed in this 
production are fictitious. No identification with actual persons 
(living or deceased) or products is intended or should be inferred.
Once you complete your report, the Antares Database will automatically 
calculate your final score, then announce whether you have won the 
case. If you win, great; celebrate a job well done!
If you lose, you can play the case again or move on to the next case. To 
play the case again, reset the lead deck to its original state; to play the 
next case, return all unused lead cards to the box and place all the lead 
cards you gained during the case in the dedicated spot of the insert. In 
either case, discard the Token pool and start anew as described under 
“Case Set-up.”
▸After the game ends, you cannot read lead cards that you did not draw!
▸Each “I don’t know” answer is worth 0 points.
▸Each wrong answer is worth -1 point.
▸It is almost impossible to score the maximum number of points for 
each case (e.g. some cases may require you to use Overtime hours.)

▸LET EVERYBODY HAVE A VOICE
As in all co-op games, one player in the group may want to take charge and 
decide that their ideas should be the group’s ideas. I’d like to encourage 
all detectives to participate in the game, with all players voicing their ideas 
and theories. Then you can collectively decide which lead to follow. This 
is a game about discussion and debate, not to mention finding the most 
probable solution to the crime. If one player dominates the group, not only 
will they be acting against the spirit of the game, they may also lead the 
team in the wrong direction, forcing the group to arrest the wrong suspect 
and lose. Let everybody have a voice. Respect their ideas and debate all 
theories. Then you can collectively decide which lead to follow.
▸PLAYER ROLES
In this game, you choose a character to play, but beyond that I would suggest 
that you all take on game roles and responsibilities. When playtesting, we 
discovered that the following roles could lead to a very fun and engaging game:
▶Notetaker
“I need one more sheet of paper. No, the bigger one…”
You are responsible for taking all notes, drawing the mind map, and 
connecting the dots and other information. As the investigation develops 
and older information starts to make more sense, the notetaker verifies and 
checks the new evidence against old leads.
▶Techie
“Let me check that in the database…”
You are responsible for browsing the Internet when the icon shows up in 
the text. You create the account in the Antares Database, log in, open the 
database entries, and input the signatures you’ve gathered. 
▶Browser
“I think it was on card number 203, when the guy said something about the 
green car. Let me check…”
You are responsible for keeping all lead cards in order and browsing through 
them to double- and triple-check facts. You keep track of which lead cards 
the team has already resolved, and which Further Leads remain available to 
you. You know on which cards you Dug Deeper and on which ones you can 
access only the front side.
DESIGNER’S NOTES
ANTARES HQ: 
INVESTIGATORS’ ROOM
▶Narrator
“I arrived at the lab at 9:15, found a spot to park, and rushed into the building…”
You are responsible for building a great story. You read all the cards aloud, 
do voices, and help create a great experience by adding some atmospheric 
flavor to each new lead card.
▶Fact Checker
“That’s impossible. I have it here in my notes, that he was born in 1954. 
He would have been six years old at this point. He’s not our guy…”
You are responsible for the little details scattered all over the campaign. 
Blood types, dates, addresses, names, daughters, sons, uncles — this is a 
huge campaign full of data. You will keep track of it all, locating dates on 
a timeline, knowing that someone had red hair, or pointing out that the 
suspect was a tall blonde.
▶FOLLOW US!
▸Our WEBSITE: portalgames.pl/en/
▸Detective: A Modern Crime Board Game WEBSITE: 
detectiveboardgame.com
▸Our FACEBOOK profile: fb.com/portalpublishing
▸Our YOUTUBE channel: youtube.com/user/
portalgamesmovies/
▸Our TWITTER: @trzewik