Rules
Sébastien Dujardin

 
As the leader of an ancient civilization, explore unknown lands in order to develop your empire. 
Found new cities and construct buildings in order to exploit natural resources, establish trade 
routes. Set out to conquer barbarian villages or increase your scientific knowledge. 
Don’t forget to maintain good standing with the Gods!
 Pay tribute to them by making offerings and by building fabulous temples.
Building Cards and Corresponding Wooden Pieces
Each card in the game represents a building. There are 6 different types of building, easily identifiable by the color 
and the symbol associated with the card. Each type of building also corresponds to a wooden Building in the player 
color of its owner (except Temples).
Note: For convenience, we will call all wooden pieces “buildings”, including the ships and meeples.
Overview and Goal of the Game
Each player begins a game of Deus with a hand of 5 Building 
cards. On your turn, you must choose from two actions: 
construct a building or make an offering to a god.
Constructing a building consists of playing a Building 
card, and placing the associated wooden piece in a region 
of the gameboard. You must place the building card in 
the column of the same color, and then you can benefit 
from the power of all the cards placed in this column, 
starting at the bottom. The powers of buildings allow you 
to gain victory points, resources, or money, make scientific 
advancements, or attack your neighbors. It is also possible 
to construct a temple, which provides victory points at 
the end of the game.
Making an offering to a god consists of discarding cards 
in order to receive aid from the god associated with one 
of these cards. Then you draw cards until you have five 
cards in your hand again.
Two things can end the game:
-- All the barbarian villages have been attacked
-- All the temples have been built
The player with the most victory points (VP) wins the game.
Contents
-	 4 small player boards
-	 96 building cards (16 civil buildings, 16 scientific 
buildings, 16 maritime buildings, 16 military units, 
16 production buildings, 16 temples) 
-	 100 wooden Buildings (25 per player): 
o	 5 civil buildings
o	 5 scientific buildings
o	 5 maritime buildings
o	 5 military units
o	 5 production buildings
-	 7 wooden Temples in a neutral color
-	 7 two-sided Continent tiles
-	 Gold coins (63 ones, 12 fives, 9 tens)
-	 Victory Point tokens (24 ones, 9 threes, 9 fives, 17 tens)
-	 80 resources: wood (20), stone (20), clay (20), wheat (20)
-	 1 First Player card
Card type
Cost
Name 
Effect text
Same effect, 
but as icons
School
Draw 1 card per region with at 
Siege Tower
Steal 2 VP from 1 barbarian village 
beside which you have an army 
(take the 2 VP from this village).
Maritime Building
Scientific Building
Military Units
Small Production Building
Precisely one of your production 
buildings produces 1 resource 
associated with its region.
At the end of the game, gain 1 VP 
per region with at least 1 building 
of your color (max. 12 VP).
Production Building
Civil Building

Continent Tiles, Regions, and Corresponding Resources
The Continent tiles form the gameboard. Each tile is 
comprised of 2 sea regions, 1 barbarian village and 
4 land regions. Each land region is associated with 1 
resource, uniquely produced in that type of terrain (see 
Card Effects and Clarifications):
- Fields produce wheat.
- Forests produce wood.
- Swamps produce clay.
- Mountains produce stone.
Setup
1. Form the gameboard from the continent tiles. The 
number of tiles and their relative positions varies 
depending on the number of players:
2 players : 4 tiles
3 players : 6 tiles
4 players : 7 tiles
Orient the tiles any way you like. 
However, make sure that you never 
have 2 barbarian villages adjacent 
to one another.
2.	 On each barbarian village, place as many VP as the 
number of regions adjacent to it.
3.	 Form a general supply, containing the following:
- As many Temple pieces as there are Continent tiles 
(4 with 2 players, 6 with 3 players, 7 with 4 players).
- 5 resources of each type (wheat, stone, clay, wood) 
per player (10 resources of each type with 2 players, 
15 with 3 players, and 20 with 4 players).
- The victory points (VP).
- The gold pieces.
Note: Return any unused Temple pieces and Resource tokens to 
the box. During the game, players can no longer gain a resource 
that has run out. The VP and gold pieces, on the other hand, 
are unlimited. Players VP are hidden.
4.	 Each player takes 1 player board and the Building 
pieces in their color. Place 2 pieces of each type on the 
corresponding column of your player board. Set the 
rest of the pieces beside your player board to form a 
personal supply.
5.	 Each player takes 5 gold coins, 4 resources (1 stone, 
1 clay, 1 wheat, 1 wood), and 5 VP. The resources come 
from the general supply.
6.	 Thoroughly shuffle the 96 Building cards and deal 
5 to each player before forming a draw pile with the 
remaining cards.
7.	 Choose a first player and give them the First Player card.
Barbarian village
Place 5 VP on this barbarian village because it is 
adjacent to 5 regions.

 
Gameplay
The game lasts a variable number of rounds. Each round, players take turns in clockwise order, starting with the First 
Player. On your turn, you must choose 1 of the following 2 actions: 
In order to construct building, you must first play a Building card from 
your hand. Note that there are two different types of building: standard 
and temples.
Standard Buildings
In order to construct a standard building (civil buildings, scientific 
buildings, maritime buildings, military units, production buildings) from 
your hand, you must follow these steps:
1.	 Verify that you have at least one wooden piece of the same type 
on your player board. If you do not have a piece of this type, you 
cannot play this card.
2.	 Place the card above your player board. Your player board establishes 
6 columns by color. Place the card at the top of the column of the 
same color, such that the effects of all cards in that column are visible.
3.	 Pay the construction cost indicated in the upper-left corner of the 
card. You can pay in resources and/or gold.
4.	 Place the wooden Building corresponding to the card in a region 
on the gameboard. This piece must come from your player board. 
Placement of the piece must respect the following placement rules:
	You must place your first Building in a region at the edge of the 
gameboard. The first regions occupied by each player must be 
separated by at least two empty regions, if possible.
	Your subsequent Buildings can be constructed in either a region 
that you control, or an empty region adjacent to a region that you 
control. If you place a wooden Building in a region that you control, 
you must respect this fundamental rule: Each Building in a single 
region must be of a different type (for example, two civil buildings 
can never be placed in the same region).
	You cannot construct a building in a region occupied by a barbarian 
village (even if there are no longer any VP on this village).
	Maritime buildings (represented by ships) must be constructed in a 
sea region. The other buildings cannot be constructed in sea regions.
	If you wish, you may place a Building in an empty region at the edge 
of the gameboard in exchange for 3 VP. This can be useful in certain 
situations; for example, if you are blocked in.
5.	 Benefit from the effects of all the cards in the column where you just 
placed the card. You must activate the cards from bottom to top. 
Each card’s effect is depicted both with icons and with text.
A. Construct a building
A. Construct a building
B. Make an offering to the gods
Madeline wishes to play a civil 
card. She can, because she has 1 
wooden Building of this type on 
her player board. 
She places the card at the top of 
her column of civil cards (brown).
Madeline can choose between 
paying either 1 wood or 4 Gold.
Anna places her first 
production building 
in a mountain region. 
Madeline can place 
hers on any region 
at the edge of the 
gameboard that is more 
than 2 regions away 
from the region Anna 
chose.
After having placed her first 
production building in the 
mountain region, Anna can 
place her second building 
in either of the following 
two ways:
In the same region, as long 
as the new building is a 
different type or on a empty adjacent region 
that is unocupied by a barbarian village.
Important: When paying the construction cost (and only in that 
case) each resource can be replaced by 4 Gold (even if the player 
has this resource).
Madeline places her 2nd card 
in the brown column. After 
having placed the piece, she gets 
the effect from the bottom card 
(earn 1 VP), and then the effect 
from the top card (earn 3 Gold).
Gain 3 Gold per forest 
Gain 3 Gold per forest 

Temples
In order to construct a temple from your hand, you must follow these 
steps :
1.	 If you are building your first temple, place the card in the notch in 
the right end of your player board.
2.	 In order to construct your 2nd temple, you must have 1 card of each 
color on your Player Board. In order to construct your 3rd temple, you 
must have 2 cards of each color on your Player board , and so on.
3.	 Pay the construction cost indicated in the upper-left corner of 
the card, which is always 1 resource of each type. Because it is a 
construction cost, each resource could be replaced by 4 Gold. The 
constructed temple provides VP (12 VP maximum per temple) at 
the end of the game, according to its effect.
4.	 Place a wooden temple from the general supply in one of your 
regions (not in an empty region). As with the other types of building, 
you cannot have more than one temple in a city. The temple is 
recognized as a standard building for card effects that depend on 
the number of buildings in a region.
Note: If you build your temple in a region comprising only a military building 
(an army), you will not be able to move the army until you build another 
building in that city. You are not allowed to abandon a temple.
Attack a Barbarian Village
It is possible to attack a barbarian village after having placed a building on the gameboard. This attack happens 
immediately (the round pauses until the attack is resolved) when both of the the following conditions are met:
- Players occupy all the regions adjacent to the village.
- There is at least one army in those adjacent regions.
When this happens, the village is attacked by the player who has the most armies in regions adjacent to the barbarian 
village. The attacker simply wins the VP placed on the barbarian village. From now on, the region is no longer considered 
to be a barbarian village for card effects that depend on this. In the case of a tie, the tied player who has constructed 
more buildings in those regions wins the VP. If it is still a tie, the tied players share the VP, rounding down.
Madeline just placed a maritime building in the sea 
adjacent to the barbarian village. An attack occurs 
immediately because the two conditions are met. Anna 
wins the 3 VP placed on the Barbarian Village because 
she has the most military units around the barbarian 
village.
Anna built her first temple. 
She places the card in the 
notch in the right end of her 
player board.
Anna built her second temple, which she was 
able to do because she has 1 card of each color 
(1 in each column) of her Player Board. She 
places the card in the second position of the 
Temple column.
Important: Unlike the other buildings, it is still possible to play a 
Temple card if the temple supply is empty. In this case, you simply 
do not place a wooden temple on the gameboard. 
Important: If at the end of your action, you no longer have cards in your 
hand, you automatically draw 5 new ones. Whenever the Building card 
deck is empty, shuffle the discards to create a new deck.
At the end of the game, gain 4 VP 
per field you occupy (max. 12 VP).
Gain 1 VP per pair of regions that 
you occupy at least 2 buildings each.
Forum
Workshop
Gain 1 building per region with at 
Earn 2 clay for each of your produc-
tion buildings built in a swamp.
Cooperative
Galley
Buy up to 3 resources of 
your choice for 1 Gold each.
Gain 4 Gold per barbarian 
village beside which you 
have at least 1 army.
Ballista
At the end of the game, gain 4 VP 
per field you occupy (max. 12 VP).
At the end of the game, gain 4 VP per 
mountain you occupy (max. 12 VP).

 
Anna makes an offering by discarding 3 cards. 
The top card is a Temple card. She uses Jupiter to 
invoke Ceres, and takes 3 resources of her choice. 
She also gains a wooden production building.
Neptune (blue/maritime)
Gain 2 gold per discarded card. Also gain 1 wooden 
maritime building.
Ceres (green/production)
Gain 1 resource of your choice per discarded card 
(You may choose resources that you do not produce). 
Also gain 1 wooden production building.
Minerva (yellow/scientific)
Gain 1 wooden scientific building. You can draw 1 
additional card in Step 4 (see below) per discarded card.
Vesta (brown/civil)
Gain 1 VP if you have discarded 1 card; 2 VP (total) if 
you have discarded more than 1. Also gain 1 wooden 
civil building.
Mars (red/military)
Gain 1 wooden building of your choice per discarded 
card. You do not have to take a military building.
Jupiter (purple/temple)
Use the power of one of the 5 other gods. Jupiter acts 
as a “wild”. You can only invoke one god per offering. 
An offering allows you to discard cards in order to invoke 
one of the 6 gods, and to draw new cards to replenish 
your hand to 5 again. In order to make an offering, you 
must follow these steps:
1.	 Discard as many of the cards from your hand as you 
wish, and announce how many you are discarding (you 
can keep some of your cards, as long as you discard 
at least 1 card).
2.	 Place the cards face-up in the discard (the other players 
will know only what the topmost card is, not the others).
3.	 Benefit from the power of the god associated with 
the topmost card on the discard. The god’s powers 
are depicted on your player board. The magnitude of 
the power is proportional to the number of cards that 
you discard. The gods also allow you to take wooden 
pieces from the general supply and place them on your 
player board.
4.	 Draw cards from the deck in order to replenish your hand 
to 5 cards. If you invoked Minerva (yellow/scientific), 
draw one more card per card you discarded in Step 3 
above.
Note : If you have more than 5 cards before starting this step you
do not need to discard down to a hand of 5 cards, you will simply
have more than 5 cards in your hand.
B. Make an offering to the gods
End of the game
The end of the game is triggered when either of the two following conditions is met:
	All the temples from the general supply have been constructed.
	All the barbarian villages have been attacked.
When one of these conditions is met, finish the current round, so that all players 
get a equal number of turns. Then play a final round, during which each player can 
choose one final action.
Now each player tallies up their VP by adding:
	VP won during the game.
	Points awarded by their constructed temples (12 VP maximum per temple).
	For each type of resource (wheat, wood, stone, clay) and gold, check to see 
which player has the most (it must be at least 1). That player receives 2 VP. If 
there’s a tie, each tied player gets the 2 VP.
Important: It is never possible to have more than 
10 cards in your hand. If you have the ability to 
draw beyond the 10th card, you must stop drawing 
when you have 10 cards in your hand.

Card Effects and Clarifications 
Blue Cards (Maritime)
Blue cards are associated with maritime buildings, which are the only wooden pieces playable on 
the sea regions. Trade allows you to sell resources for gold or VP. These cards also allow you to buy 
resources, or exchange them with the general supply.
-- You can never play 2 maritime buildings on the same sea region.
-- It is possible that you cannot play a blue card because you have no access to the sea.
-- It is possible that nobody can play a blue card because all sea regions are occupied.
-- Sold resources are returned to the general supply. 
-- The resources purchased are taken from the general supply.
Green Cards (Production) 
The production buildings produce the 4 types of resources that will be necessary for building 
construction and for trade.
Clarification:
-- A building produces only the resource associated with the region in which it is built. The way it is 
produced is described by the card effect.
Yellow Cards (Scientific)
Scientific cards allow you to neglect the gods and to no longer have to make an offering. Indeed, 
certain cards allow you to draw cards, and others allow you to gain wooden pieces from the general 
supply. Science also allows you to activate cards of other colors.
-- You can never have more than 10 cards in your hand.
-- When you gain pieces, choose freely from among the 5 types of building (but not temples), and place 
the piece on the appropriate space of your player board.
 
Brown Cards (Civil) 
Civil cards allow you to gain VP or money, depending on your development. Half of the cards reward 
you based on the size of your cities; the other half reward you based on the terrain type on which you 
have built.
Red Cards (Military) 
Military cards allow you to attack your opponents by stealing their gold or VP. Military units are also 
the only buildings you can move, which you do by using the effects of certain cards. In addition, you 
will need military units to attack the barbarian villages.
-- To save space on the military cards, we used shorter terms: army means «military unit» and ship means 
«maritime building».
-- Moving a military unit 1 region allows you to move the military unit into an adjacent region.
-- A military unit can move through regions occupied by opponents, and through barbarian villages, as 
long as it doesn’t end its move there.
-- A military unit may enter and stop in a sea region if one of your maritime buildings is there. You can 
never enter a sea region occupied by an enemy maritime building. 
-- There can never be two military units in the same area at the end of a turn.
Small Production Building
Precisely one of your production 
buildings produces 1 resource 
associated with its region.
School
Draw 1 card per region with at 
Gain 3 Gold per mountain 
Siege Tower
Steal 2 VP from 1 barbarian village 
beside which you have an army 
(take the 2 VP from this village).

 
Variants
Alternative Start
Instead of starting with 2 buildings of each type, each of you secretly chooses a total of 10 buildings, which you place in the 
corresponding columns of your player board. Put the rest of the buildings in your personal supply, just as in the basic game. 
Experienced players can start the game with 8 or 9 buildings, instead of 10. Expert players can start with 6 or 7 buildings.
Alternative Gameboard Setups
You can modify the arrangement of the Continent tiles at the start of the game, inspired by the following examples or 
however you like. Just make sure that the number of tiles corresponds correctly to the number of players (4 tiles with 2 
players, 6 with 3 players, and 7 with 4 players), and that there are never 2 barbarian villages adjacent to one another.
Building Wildcard
This variant is designed for players who wish to reduce the luck of the draw a little. Once per game, you can choose the 
construct a building action without having to consider the color of the Building card you are playing. You must play the 
card face-down, without showing it to the other players, and place it in the column of whichever color you wish. The 
construction cost is 1 gold if the card is the first card in the column, 2 gold if it is the second, 3 gold if it is the third, etc. 
This card grants you no effects, but it allows you to construct a building and to activate the effects of the other cards in 
its column. This card also counts as one of the cards necessary for the construction of a temple; however, you cannot use 
this card to construct the temple itself.
Designer: Sébastien Dujardin . Illustrations: Christine Deschamps, Misda, Ian Parovel & Paul Laffond 
Rulebook: Sébastien Dujardin . Translation: Nathan Morse
Thanks: The designer/publisher thanks Madeline, Anaëlle, Etienne, Shadi, Patrick, Christian, François, Muriel, Nathan, Marcus, Emmanuel, and all 
those who have helped finalize this project. The designer particularly thanks Anaëlle for innumerable public gatherings.
Warning! Not suitable for children under 36 months. Contains 
small parts that could be swallowed or inhaled. Please keep this 
information for further reference. Not a children’s toy. AGE 14+ 
Hobby gaming product.
2014-1/DEUS01/LFC
SKU: DEUS01
5 425028 270078
Made in 
Germany
From 2 to 4 players - ages 14 and up
Playing time : 60 to 90 min.
www.asmodee.com
Distributed in North America by 
Asmodee Editions LLC. 
20 Gateway Drive, Suite 400, 
Plattsburgh, NY 12901